PROGRESS 

MEATLESS 

COOKBOOK 

Ixll 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


THE  PROGRESS 

MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

AND 

VALUABLE  RECIPES  AND  SUGGESTIONS 

FOR 

CLEANING  CLOTHING,   HATS,   GLOVES, 

HOUSE  FURNISHINGS,  WALLS 

AND  WOODWORK 

AND 
ALL  KINDS  OF  HELPS  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


PUBLISHED  BY 

THE  NEW  LITERATURE  PUBLISHING  CO. 
LOS  ANGELES,  CALIFORNIA 


COPTRIGHT.    1911 
BT 

LOTTA  M.  LAKE 


THB  HICKS-JODD  Co. 
Printers  &  Binders 
San  Francisco,  Gal. 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 
Preface    7 

Suggestions  for  Starting  the  Day 9 

Weights    and    Measures 15 

Yeast   17 

Helps  About  Breads 19 

Biscuits    26 

Griddle   Cakes    29 

Cereals  and  Breakfast  Dishes 32 

Eggs    34 

Cheese   Dishes    40 

Sandwiches    45 

Soups   47 

Vegetables    53 

Asparagus    53 

Beans  54 

Brussels  Sprouts   57 

Cabbage    57 

Carrots    58 

Cauliflower    59 

Corn    59 

Cucumbers   60 

Eggplant    60 

Spinach    61 

Macaroni    62 

Onions    67 

Potatoes   69 

Protose    73 

Parsnips    73 

Green  Peas 74 

Peppers  74 

Boiled  Rice  75 

3 


4  CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Squash    76 

Tomatoes    76 

Turnips    78 

Mushrooms    79 

Nut  Recipes    63 

To   Blanch   Nuts 63 

Salted  Almonds   63 

Chestnuts    64 

Nut  Roasts   65 

Peanut  Butter 66 

Sauces,  Relishes,  etc 81 

Salad  Combinations    84 

Fruit  Salads    90 

Fritters    93 

Pies    94 

Puddings    103 

Pudding    Sauces    110 

About  Milk  113 

Cream  and  Whipped  Cream 114 

Fruits    119 

Doughnuts    123 

Baking    Cakes    124 

Cakes 126 

Cake  Fillings    135 

Icings 138 

Cookies    142 

Chilled  Dishes   145 

Ice  Cream  Sauces 148 

Punches    150 

Cold  Beverages   153 

Hot    Beverages    158 

Candies   and    Sweets 160 

Jellies    and    Preserves 166 

Canning  in   Jars    174 

Canning  Vegetables    176 

Chutney,  Catsup  and  Pickles 177 

Wines,  Flavorings  and  Vinegars 182 


CONTENTS  5 

PAOK 

Personal  Comforts  and  Things  Good  to  Know 185 

Bathroom  and  Toilet 189 

The  Hair  192 

Gloves,  Parasols,  etc 194 

Shoes  and   Rubbers 196 

Hats,  Feathers,  Ribbons  and  Laces 199 

Removing  Stains  211 

Furs   217 

Disinfectants,    Scents,   etc 219 

Pests  of  Various  Kinds 222 

Flowers,  Plants  and  Green  Things 225 

Bottles,   Glass,   Mirrors,  etc 230 

Coal,  Stoves  and  Furnaces 237 

Cleaning  Metals,    etc 242 

Cleaning  Bric-a-Brac   247 

Cleaning  Compounds 248 


PREFACE 

THIS  BOOK  is  gotten  up  to  meet  the  wants  of  young- 
housekeepers  who  wish  to  use  plain  practical  methods  of 
keeping  house  in  such  manner  that  they  do  not  spend  all 
or  even  one-half  their  days  in  the  kitchen ;  who  wish  to 
manage  their  household  so  sensibly  that  the  feeling  of 
drudgery  is  removed,  and  they  can  be  "chief  cook  and 
bottle  washer"  if  necessary,  yet  meet  with  a  smile  the 
husband  coming  for  meals. 

And  for  the  "tired  out"  housekeeper  who  spends  so  much 
time  planning  and  executing  the  family  cooking  and  the 
serving  of  varied  and  elaborate  meals,  that  she  has  no 
time  to  devote  to  the  so-called  recreations  of  life,  fre- 
quently feeling  obliged  to  give  up  everything  to  prevent 
a  "complete  nervous  breakdown." 

If  your  children  hear  constant  talk  regarding  food  and 
its  preparation,  unless  they  learn  better  later  on,  they 
will  most  likely  consider  eating  the  chief  thing  in  life. 
While  every  one  must  eat,  let  each  one  endeavor  to  make 
the  preparation  and  the  partaking  of  the  daily  meals  a 
pleasure  to  the  cook,  and  the  manager  of  the  cook.  For 
unless  a  house  is  run  on  one  or  two  "flat  wheels"  (as  the 
streetcar  men  express  it),  there  must  be  a  manager. 
This  book  is  also  a  plea  for  "the  simple  life"  in  a  sensible 
way. 

We  are  independent  beings,  and  we  must  decide  our 
course  for  ourselves.  If  any  of  these  things  appeal  to 
your  thinking  selves,  use  and  enjoy  them.  If  not,  just 

7 


8  PREFACE 

ignore  them,  but,  do  not  dictate  as  to  the  right  or  wrong 
of  your  neighbor's  using  them.  You  remember  Epictetus 
said  "Does  a  man  bathe  quickly?  do  not  say  that  he 
bathes  badly,  but  that  he  bathes  quickly.  For  unless  you 
perfectly  understand  the  principle  from  which  he  acts, 
how  do  you  know  whether  he  is  acting  wrong." 
The  aim  in  this  book  is  not  to  present  an  immense  variety 
of  recipes,  but  a  number  of  good,  plain,  wholesome  dishes ; 
with  directions  for  using  and  not  wasting  ingredients. 
The  housekeeper  need  not  be  what  is  termed  "stingy," 
but  it  is  criminal  to  waste,  and  statistics  prove  that  no 
other  nation  is  so  prodigal  as  the  American.  So  let  the 
women,  the  rulers  of  the  house,  see  to  it  that  they  are 
doing  their  part  in  benefiting  mankind.  "Charity  begins 
at  home."  Attend  to  yours. 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  STARTING 
THE  DAY 

You  will  find,  by  sometimes  pleasant  experience  (some- 
times the  reverse)  that  rising  before  6.30  o'clock  summer 
mornings,  and  before  7  in  winter,  is  conducive  to  a  smooth 
day.  Of  course,  this  is  under  ordinary  conditions  and 
environments.  You  have  time  to  "do"  your  hair  and 
don  a  neat  shirt  waist  or  dressing  jacket  and  skirt.  If  a 
plain  tulle  veil  to  match  the  hair  in  color  is  fastened  lightly 
over  the  head,  it  does  not  look  unsightly,  and  may  be 
removed  before  luncheon,  a  curl  or  puff  (as  the  style  may 
be)  added,  if  desired,  and  the  hair  found  dressed  for  the 
day.  It  is  also  surprising  how  such  a  filmy,  almost  un- 
seen, cover  prevents  dust  entering  the  hair. 
While  breakfast  is  cooking,  a  carpet  sweeper  can  be  run 
over  rugs  in  the  downstairs  rooms;  the  hardwood  floors 
wiped  with  a  "dustless  duster"  (which  absorbs  the  dust 
and  polishes  at  the  same  time),  or  with  a  dust  cloth  two 
feet  square  made  by  stitching  old  stockings  together. 
After  breakfast,  a  few  moments  will  suffice  for  the  dust- 
ing of  furniture  and  bric-a-brac,  and  the  first  floor  is 
cleaned  for  the  day. 

Dusters  should  be  frequently  shaken  out-of-doors  while 
dusting. 

After  the  breakfast  work  is  done,  the  upstairs  can  be  ar- 
ranged and  dusted. 

All  bath-rooms,  wash  bowls  and  toilets  should  then  be 

9 


10    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

left  in  absolute  cleanliness,  and  hardwood  stairs  wiped 
with  a  dust  cloth  if  necessary     In  some  houses,  twice  a 
week  is  sufficient  to  clean  stairs  and  bathroom  floors,  and 
once  in  four  weeks  for  cleaning  windows. 
If  the  work  in  a  house  is  attended  to  regularly,  there  is 
never  any  need  for  the  old  fashioned  "House  Cleaning." 
Whenever  rugs  and  draperies  need  cleaning,  have  them 
cleaned  immediately. 

THE  KITCHEN  SINK 

If  it  is  convenient,  by  all  means  have  a  row  of  brass  hooks 
over  the  sink,  on  which  to  hang  the  following  articles,  viz  : 
A  small  three-cornered  piece  of  zinc,  each  corner  differ- 
ing in  shape,  to  use  in  cleaning  corners  of  pans,  etc.  Have 
a  hole  in  one  corner  to  hang  by. 

A  small  stiff  bristled  brush  for  cleaning  vegetables,  with 
a  screw-eye  in  one  end  to  hang  by. 

A  wire  dish  for  holding  laundry  and  toilet  soap,  and  an- 
other for  sapolio  and  a  small  piece  of  flannel  (or  cotton 
cloth). 

A  perforated  dish  into  which  to  empty  coffee  grounds, 
etc.,  to  prevent  stoppage  of  the  sink  drain. 
A  wire  soap  shaker  to  hold  scraps  of  soap. 
An  ordinary  granite  water  dipper. 
A  medium  size  sauce  pan  also  utilized  for  dipping. 
Do  not  omit  a  wire  dish  cloth. 

A  long  wire  with  bristles  on  one  end  for  cleaning  bottles. 
A  medium  size  scrubbing  brush  with  pointed  ends  for 
cleaning  the  sink  with  Dutch  Cleanser. 
A  granite  dish  pan  should  hang  or  be  placed  near  the 
sink,  also  a  granite  basin  in  which  to  wash  vegetables. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         11 

A  sink  should  have  boiling  water  poured  in  it  each  day, 
and  if  signs  of  stoppage  occur,  throw  in  a  handful  of 
copperas  and  usually  the  water  poured  in  during  the  day 
will  dissolve  the  copperas  slowly  and  clean  the  pipes. 
On  a  shelf  near  the  sink  it  is  well  to  keep  a  can  of  Dutch 
Cleanser,  a  package  of  borax,  if  the  water  is  "hard,"  and 
a  package  of  pearline  or  similar  powder. 

THE  KITCHEN  FLOOR 

The  best  linoleum  is  the  most  satisfactory  and  lasting 
cover  for  kitchen,  pantry  and  back  hall  floors.  It  cleans 
beautifully  with  a  scrub  brush  and  naphtha  soap,  rinsing 
and  wiping  dry.  Ordinarily,  once  a  week  is  sufficient  for 
scrubbing  the  kitchen,  but  the  floor  should  be  wiped  or 
carefully  mopped  with  a  small  mop  at  least  every  other 
day  or  oftener,  if  necessary. 

For  spots  and  stains  difficult  to  remove  from  linoleum, 
Dutch  Cleanser  is  almost  a  certain  remedy. 

THE  KITCHEN  TABLE 

If  possible,  have  what  is  termed  a  combination  table,  and 
have  a  tinner  cover  the  top  with  zinc.  On  this  all  hot 
dishes  may  be  set  with  no  ill  results,  and  it  is  most  easy 
to  clean.  If  you  can  enjoy  the  luxury  of  a  kitchen  cabinet, 
select  one  with  a  tall  cupboard  on  top,  as  that  uses  space 
otherwise  wasted.  If  not  already  zinc  covered,  have 
it  done.  The  cost  is  small,  and  the  comfort  and  time  sav- 
ing enormous.  In  the  upper  drawers  in  the  combination 
table,  you  can  keep  whatever  articles  you  wish.  But 
somewhere,  manage  to  keep  a  bunch  of  papers,  for  their 


12         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

use  is  manifold.  When  gathering  the  dishes  preparatory 
to  washing  them,  always  crush  several  pieces  of  paper 
and  wipe  out  grease ;  wipe  off  the  table  with  paper  when 
grease  has  been  spilled ;  and  wipe  off  the  stove  with 
paper.  All  this  is  a  great  aid  to  greater  comfort  in  wash- 
ing these  things. 

THE  GARBAGE 

In  some  cities  a  garbage  collector  calls  on  certairi  days, 
and  a  convenient  way  is  to  keep  an  old  coal  hod  indoors 
(so  as  not  to  attract  flies)  with  a  newspaper  in  it,  into 
which  to  empty  garbage  as  it  accumulates  during  the 
day.  This  can  be  easily  emptied  into  an  outside  garbage 
can  each  night. 
These  matters  must  be  governed  by  existing  conditions. 

AROUND  THE  KITCHEN  STOVE 

Brass  hooks  are  convenient  for  holding  the  following,  viz  : 
Dust  pan,  soft  brush,  and  old  whisk  broom. 
Asbestos  plates  or  old  shallow  baking  pans  to  invert 
under  kettles  to  prevent  burning. 

Cover  squares  of  old  shoe  leather  with  ticking  or  any 
material  suitable  for  holders,  leaving  a  space  about  three 
inches  not  sewed  in  one  edge  of  cover  through  which  to 
slip  leather  when  cover  is  washed.  Sew  a  brass  ring  to 
one  corner  to  hang  by. 

Hem  a  square  of  ticking  and  attach  a  brass  ring  to  hang 
by,  to  use  in  handling  hot  dishes  about  the  stove. 
A  turkey  wing  is  most  handy  to  brush  under  low  furni- 
ture. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         13 

Provide  a  place  for  drying  dish-cloths  and  towels. 
For  drying  glass  and  silver,  make  towels  of  linen,  to  do 
away  with  lint.    But  nothing  seems  so  satisfactory  for 
drying  china,  as  the  soft  towels  made  from  flour  and 
sugar  bags,  the  one  hundred  pound  size. 
Knitted  dish  cloths  of  fine  twine  can  now  be  purchased 
in  any  linen  department  for  a  few  cents.   They  are  dur- 
able and  just  right  to  handle. 
By  all  means  have  a  nickle  tea  kettle. 

OTHER  HELPS 

Have  a  small  dish  in  refrigerator  or  other  cool  place,  into 
which  to  drop  egg  shells  which  are  washed  before  break- 
ing eggs  for  cooking,  and  save  for  settling  coffee. 
A  good  can  opener  and  cork  screw. 
A  good,  not  too  heavy  broom,  and  an  old  one. 
Save  all  worn  out  flannels  and  soft  cotton  underwear  for 
cleaning  purposes. 

Pieces  of  medium  grade  sandpaper  tacked  over  a  strip  of 
board  4x10  inches,  similar  to  a  razor  sharpener,  is  fine  for 
whetting  knives. 

Always  keep  a  pair  of  clean  shears  convenient  for  cutting 
orange  and  lemon  peel,  certain  vegetables,  etc. 
A  rubber  window  dryer,  used  on  or  off  the  handle. 
Get  a  good  Fireless  Cooker. 

And  a  steam  cooker,  if  you  can — a  copper  one,  or  it  will 
rust  out,  and  get  it  with  two  doors. 

Three  or  four  empty  pound  baking  powder  cans,  with 
covers. 

A  light  weight  mop. 
Good  scrub  brush. 


14    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

Wire  basket  to  keep  vegetables  from  burning  to  bottom  of 

kettle. 

Buy  a  good  clock. 

COOKING  UTENSILS 

A  word  to  the  wise :  have  plenty  and  proper  dishes  for 
cooking,  and  if  you  cannot  purchase  both  dishes  and  bric- 
a-brac,  by  all  means  leave  out  the  bric-a-brac. 
Have  a  good  food  chopper  for  grinding  nuts,  cheese,  bread, 
herbs,  etc.,  etc. 

A  wooden  chopping  bowl  and  sharp  chopping  knife. 
A  nutmeg  grater,  also  a  large  grater  having  different 
size  punctures. 

Quart  measure — with  other  divisions  marked. 
Measuring  cup. 
Small  sharp  vegetable  knife. 
Large  sharp  bread  knife. 
Two  steel  knives  and  forks. 
A  long  doughnut  fork  and  doughnut  cutter. 
A  cooky  cutter. 
Lemon  reamer. 
Egg-beater. 

One  draining,  two  mixing,  two  table,  one  dessert,  three 
teaspoons. 
Pancake  turner. 
Steamed  pudding  dish. 
Bread  pans. 
Large  baking  pans. 
Perforated  pie  tins. 
Patent  cake  tins. 
Six  granite  cups  to  hold  left-overs,  etc. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK    15 

Granite  saucers  and  different  sized  round  basins. 

Double  boiler. 

Small  steamer  and  kettle  to  fit. 

Funnel. 

Three  different  sized  stew  pans,  granite. 

Three  different  sized  sheet  iron  frying  pans. 

A  granite  colander. 

Three  sizes,  wire  strainers. 

Moulding  board  and  glass  rolling  pin. 

Flour  sieve. 

WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

For  convenience  in  using,  measurements  in  this  book  are 
given  in  both  cups  and  pints. 

Have   a   measuring  cup   and  no   difficulty   will    be   ex- 
perienced. 

2  cupfuls  butter=  1  pound=  1  pint 

4  cupfuls  flour=  1  pound—  1  quart 

2  cupfuls  sugars  1  pound—  1  pint 

2l/2  cupfuls  powdered  sugar^l  pound=  1  pint 

1  cupful  bread  crumbs—  4  ounces 

1  cupful  grated  cheese—  }£  pound 

%  cupful  macaroni^  ^4  pound 

1  cupful  nut  meats—  ^  pound 

1  cupful  dates=  %  pound 

1/4  cupful  dates=  4  tablespoonfuls 

1/3  cupful  dates=  6  tablespoonsfuls 

2  cupfuls  milk  or  water=  1  pound 
10  eggs—  1  pound 


16         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

READ  THIS 

Granulated  sugar  is  used  almost  universally. 
Soda  may  be  dissolved  in  either  hot  or  cold  water. 
When  mixing,  add  ingredients  in  order  given. 
Butter  is  softened,  not  melted,  by  placing  on  small  tin  in 
oven. 

Flour  is  never  used  without  being  sifted,  and  measure- 
ments given  mean  after  sifting. 
All  measurements  given  are  even  or  level. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


YEAST 

A  yeast  cake  may  be  kept  fresh  for  a  week  by  burying  it 
in  the  flour. 

A  liberal  pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water 
and  added  to  slightly  soured  yeast  will  sweeten  it. 

EVERLASTING  YEAST 

1  cupful  mashed  potatoes  1  tablespoonful  salt 

3  cupfuls  lukewarm  water  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

yeast  cake  }4  teaspoonful  ginger 

Peel  and  boil  old  potatoes,  put  through  a  colander,  mix 
with  the  other  ingredients  with  the  yeast  dissolved  in  a 
little  warm  water.  Add  the  ginger  the  first  time  in  start- 
ing the  yeast,  but  not  again.  Let  this  mixture  stand  for 
three  days  before  using.  When  you  make  bread,  repeat 
the  formula,  omitting  the  yeast  and  ginger,  add  the  in- 
gredients to  the  first  mixture  and  let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning,  stir  it  thoroughly,  take  out  a  pint  to  start 
your  next  yeast,  sift  the  flour  with  the  remainder,  knead 
and  put  into  pans.  By  noon  the  bread  may  be  baked. 
This  makes  three  loaves.  Keep  the  yeast  in  a  tight  jar, 
and  it  will  keep  for  about  ten  days  in  warm  weather. 

MAKING  DRY  YEAST 

After  mixing  bread  at  night,  the  following  morning  take 
a  large  cupful  of  the  light  sponge  and  stir  into  it  dry 
corn  meal.  Spread  it  out  thinly  to  dry,  stirring  occas- 
ionally. When  perfectly  dry,  like  coarse  powder,  it  is 

17 


18         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

ready  for  use,  and  will  keep  indefinitely.  Use  about  two 
tablespoonfuls  for  a  medium  size  baking. 

YEAST 

1  yeast  cake 
yt  cupful  salt 
^2  cupful  sugar 

Put  the  hops  in  cold  water,  let  boil  for  five  minutes  and 
strain.  Add  potato,  salt  and  sugar,  boiling  all  together 
for  five  minutes.  Have  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water,  and  when  the  potato  mixture  is  nearly  cold, 
stir  in  the  yeast  cake  and  let  rise. 


HELPS  ABOUT  BREADS 

When  the  temperature  is  too  low  for  bread  to  rise  well, 

set  the  bread  pan  on  folded  newspaper  or  something  to 

prevent  it  getting  chilled ;  an  asbestos  mat  is  good ;  cover 

the  pan  with  towels  and  newspaper;  a  hot  water  bag 

filled  with  hot  water  and  placed  on  top  of  these  coverings, 

and  the  bag  itself  covered,  is  one  of  the  best  helps. 

Always  stir  in  all  the  flour  possible  at  the  first  mixing. 

Never  fill  the  bread  pans  over  half  full. 

Knead  the  dough  into  loaves,  let  rise,  work  over  again, 

let  rise  in  the  pans  and  bake. 

If  you  mix  bread  dough  with  water,  your  loaves  will 

stand  a  hotter  fire  than  when  mixed  with  milk. 

If  flour  is  warmed  before  mixing  bread  in  cold  weather, 

it  will  aid  in  the  rising. 

Too  much  kneading  is  unnecessary. 

One  cupful  of  liquid  yeast  is  equal  to  one  dried  yeast  cake 

or  about  three-fourths  of  a  compressed  yeast  cake. 

A  little  sugar  sprinkled  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  helps 

brown  the  top  of  your  loaves. 

For  sandwich  making,  bake  the  bread  in  one  pound  baking 

powder  cans,  filling  them  half  full  of  the  dough. 

Some  good  cooks  add  one  teaspoonful  of  glycerine  to 

every  four  cupfuls  of  flour  in  making  bread.   It  makes  the 

dough  "richer." 

KEEPING  BREAD  FRESH 

As  soon  as  bread  is  cold,  put  each  loaf  in  a  paper  bag, 

19 


20    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

putting  the  bags  in  an  earthen  jar  with  cover,  or  in  a 

bread  tin. 

A  dish  containing  a  wet  sponge  set  inside  the  bread  tin  is 

good.   Of  course,  see  that  the  sponge  is  kept  sweet.   And 

a  cut  apple  inside  the  bread  tin  helps. 

Bread  wrapped  in  paraffin  paper  before  being  placed  in 

the  jar  or  box,  keeps  well. 

STALE  BREAD 

Dip  stale  loaves  in  water,  quickly  removing  to  a  hot  oven 
for  about  ten  minutes. 

When  not  needed  as  bread,  put  stale  pieces  through  the 
chopper  and  save  every  crumb  in  a  receptacle  covered 
with  a  cloth,  not  with  a  tight  cover,  to  prevent  mold. 

CUTTING  BREAD 

Tie  a  piece  of  coarse  white  thread  or  common  twine 
around  the  hot  bread  where  you  wish  to  cut.  It  cuts  per- 
fectly smooth  and  straight. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


BREADS  OF  VARIOUS  NAMES 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD 

1  pint  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1  pint  water  1  cake  yeast  foam 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar  entire  wheat  flour 

At  night  scald  the  milk,  add  water,  sugar  and  salt  and  the 
yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  warm  milk  and  water. 
Stir  in  all  possible  of  the  whole  wheat  flour.  Cover  and 
keep  in  warm  place  till  morning.  Knead  just  enough  to 
work  into  loaves  to  half  fill  bread  pans,  and  when  the 
loaves  have  risen  to  nearly  the  top  of  the  pan,  bake. 

WHITE  BREAD,  ROLLS  AND  BREAD 
DOUGHNUTS 

1  pint  hot  water  or  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1  pint  cold  water  or  milk  3  teaspoonfuls  salt 

butter,  size  of  egg  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

Mix  at  night. 

Dissolve  yeast  in  ^  cupful  lukewarm  water.  Stir  butter, 
sugar  and  salt  into  the  pint  of  hot  water  or  milk,  adding 
the  cold  water  or  milk  after  butter  becomes  softened,  then 
add  the  yeast  and  all  the  flour  you  can  stir  in.  Cover  and 
keep  in  warm  place  till  morning.  Place  on  the  floured 
moulding  board,  and  knead  just  enough  to  work  into 
three  loaves,  leaving  a  fourth  loaf  to  work  into  rolls. 
Place  the  three  loaves  in  bread  pans,  cover,  let  rise,  and 
bake.  Take  the  fourth  loaf,  work  in  a  second  piece  of 
softened  butter,  mould  into  rolls,  place  in  tin  to  rise. 

21 


22    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

Usually,  in  about  half  an  hour,  bread  and  rolls  are  ready 
to  bake. 

If  the  rolls  are  wanted  later,  place  them  in  the  refrigera- 
tor or  cold  place,  till  time  to  allow  them  to  rise  and  bake. 

BREAD  DOUGHNUTS 

Take  one  loaf  of  the  bread  mixture,  dip  a  tablespoon  first 
into  hot  cooking  oil,  then  into  this  one  loaf,  and  drop  a 
small  thin  piece  from  the  spoon  into  the  hot  oil  ready  for 
frying.  They  are  fine  with  maple  or  sugar  syrup. 

RYE  BREAD 

1  cupful  scalded  milk  3  cupfuls  flour 

1  cupful  boiling  water  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Yi  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  salt 

1  cake  compressed  yeast 

Mix  at  night. 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  as  soon  as 
the  hot  liquids  are  simply  warm,  not  hot,  add  them  to  the 
yeast;  then  stir  in  the  sugar,  softened  butter,  salt  and 
flour ;  cover  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night. 
Next  morning,  add  rye  meal  until  thick  enough  to  work 
into  loaves.  Allow  this  to  rise,  then  work  it  into  loaves, 
place  in  bread  tins,  let  rise  again  and  bake.  Makes  two 
loaves. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  No.  1 

1  cupful  corn  meal  54  cupful  molasses 

1  cupful  graham  flour  yt  teaspoonful  soda 

ll/3  cupfuls  sour  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

Pour  molasses  into  your  mixing  bowl,  add  the  milk,  then 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK    23 

the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  then  meal  and  flour, 
and  pour  into  two  one-pound  baking  powder  cans,  put 
covers  on  tightly  and  steam  three  hours. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  No.  2 

34  cupful  graham  flour  %  cupful  molasses 

Yz  cupful  corn  meal  $4  teaspoonful  salt 

$4  cupful  sour  milk  */*  teaspoonful  soda 

Mix  as  in  No.  1,  pour  into  a  two  quart  granite  basin,  cover 
tightly  (place  a  weight  on  cover  if  necessary),  steam  two 
and  one-half  hours,  and  bake  ten  minutes. 

BROWN  BREAD  No.  1 

2  cupfuls  graham  flour  }/£  cupful  molasses 

yt  cupful  corn  meal  1  egg 

1  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  soda 
butter,  size  of  walnut  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

Pour  molasses  and  milk  into  your  mixing  bowl,  add  the 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  salt,  the  butter  softened, 
flour  and  meal.  Bake  in  ordinary  oven. 

BROWN  BREAD  No.  2 

2  cupfuls  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  cupfuls  corn  meal  y2  teaspoonful  soda 

1  cupful  graham  flour  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Yz  cupful  molasses 

Mix  and  bake  as  in  Brown  Bread  No.  1. 


24    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

GRAHAM  BREAD  No.  1 

1  pint  milk  2  cupfuls  dried  raisins 

1  pint  water  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 
3  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1  cake  yeast  foam 

graham  flour 

Have  the  raisins  washed  and  dried  the  day  before,  then 
proceed  as  per  Entire  Wheat  Bread  recipe,  adding  the 
perfectly  dry  raisins  in  the  last  kneading. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  No.  2 

2  cupfuls  sour  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 
*/4  cupful  molasses  1  teaspoonful  soda 
2  cupfuls  graham  flour                    butter,  size  of  egg 

1  cupful  corn  meal  1  cupful  chopped  raisins 

Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  water  and  stir  it  in  the  sour  milk, 
add  molasses,  salt  and  part  of  the  flour  and  corn  meal, 
softened  butter,  adding  the  raisins  and  remainder  of  flour 
and  meal  alternately. 
Bake  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

ROLLS 

One  recipe  is  given  under  White  Bread.  If  these  rolls 
are  molded  and  the  pan  placed  in  a  dish  of  warm 
water,  or  in  a  gas  oven  with  the  flame  turned  very  low, 
they  will  be  ready  for  baking  in  from  ten  to  twenty 
minutes. 

A  cupful  of  finely  chopped  nut  meats  added  to  the  above 
/ecipe  at  the  last  kneading,  is  fine. 


25 


NUT  ROLLS 


Use  the  recipe  for  Baking  Powder  Biscuit,  roll  very  thin, 
spread  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  raisins, 
or  nuts  or  both.  Roll  this  dough  tightly,  like  jelly  roll, 
cut  into  slices,  and  bake. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

%  cupful  butter  1  teaspoonful  salt 

flour  1  compressed  yeast  cake 

To  the  scalding  milk  add  salt,  sugar,  a  little  flour  and  the 
softened  butter.  Dissolve  the  yeast  cake  in  about  half  a 
cupful  of  lukewarm  water,  stirring  into  the  milk  mixture 
as  soon  as  it  is  lukewarm,  not  hot.  Add  sufficient  flour  to 
form  a  soft  dough.  Knead  till  it  is  smooth,  put  back  into 
mixing  pan,  cover  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  till 
light.  Usually  it  becomes  very  light  in  two  hours.  Turn 
it  on  the  bread  board,  knead  a  little  more,  roll  and  cut 
into  pieces  to  shape  into  rolls.  Spread  half  of  the  inside 
with  butter,  fold  the  other  half  over  and  press  it  down. 
Place  these  in  a  covered  well-buttered  pan  till  they  are 
twice  their  original  size,  and  bake  from  ten  to  twenty 
minutes. 


BISCUITS 

BAKING  BISCUITS 
Have  the  oven  hot  at  first,  letting  it  cool  gradually. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 

4  cupfuls  flour  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  cupfuls  milk  3  teaspoonfuls  baking   powder 

Yz  cupful  butter  pinch  of  sugar 

Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  into  the  milk  and 
the  softened  butter,  add  salt  and  sugar,  roll  to  half-inch  in 
thickness,  cut  and  bake. 

Instead  of  milk,  water  may  be  used  by  adding  a  little 
more  butter. 

By  rolling  the  dough  very  thin,  cutting  small  biscuits, 
placing  one  on  top  of  another  to  bake,  very  convenient 
biscuits  for  buttering  for  parties  and  luncheons  can  be 
made. 

GRAHAM  BISCUITS 

1  cupful  sour  milk  y2  teaspoonful  soda 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  graham  flour 

5/2  teaspoonful  salt  butter,  size  of  egg 

Stir  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water  into  the  milk,  add 
salt,  sugar,  a  little  graham  flour,  the  melted  or  softened 
butter,  and  more  graham  flour  till  the  liquid  has  absorbed 
all  possible.  Dip  a  dessert  spoon  into  cold  water,  then 
into  the  dough,  taking  enough  to  make  a  small  biscuit, 
place  in  a  buttered  pan,  repeating  till  dough  is  all  used. 
Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

26 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         27 

Use  same  recipe  for  white  biscuits  by  substituting  white 
flour  for  graham,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
for  soda. 

MAPLE  TEA  BISCUITS 

4  cupfuls  flour  y2  teaspoonful  salt 

Yz  cupful  butter  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  ground  maple  sugar       sweet  milk 

Into  part  of  the  flour  stir  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  salt,  then 
the  softened  butter  and  the  balance  of  the  flour  with 
baking  powder  sifted  in,  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Add  the  maple  sugar  (ground  by  putting  through 
the  food  chopper),  roll  about  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  into 
biscuits  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

GRAHAM  GEMS 

iy2  cupfuls  graham  flour  1%  cupfuls  cold  water 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Stir  the  flour  gradually  into  the  salted  water.  Stir  very 
briskly  for  about  five  minutes  and  pour  into  hot  gem  pan. 
Makes  12  gems  and  takes  about  15  minutes  to  bake. 

MUFFINS 

2  cupfuls  flour  2  teaspoonfuls  baking   powder 
2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

butter,  size  of  egg  }•£  cupful  milk 

To  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  add  the  salt, 
the  well  beaten  eggs  and  the  milk.  Drop  from  a  dessert- 
spoon into  hot  gem  pans,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 
Makes  12  muffins  and  takes  about  15  minutes  to  bake. 


28         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

POP-OVERS 

1  cupful  flour  y2  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  milk  2  eggs 

To  the  beaten  eggs  add  milk  and  salt,  stir  in  flour,  pour 
in  hot  buttered  gem  pans  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

BAKED  BUCKWHEAT  CAKE 

1  cupful  sour  milk  buckwheat  flour 

1  tablespoonful  molasses  1  teaspoonful  salt 

Yz  teaspoonful  soda 

Into  the  sour  milk,  stir  salt,  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water  and  molasses;  add  buckwheat  till  the  mix- 
ture is  like  cake  dough.  Bake  about  thirty  minutes  in  a 
rather  deep  pan,  serve  in  squares  thick  enough  to  cut  in 
two  and  butter.  This  is  a  fine  bread  for  winter  luncheon. 

JOHNNY-CAKE 

1  cupful  sour  milk  y^  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  corn  meal  54  teaspoonful  soda 

1  cupful  flour  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

butter,  size  of  egg  1  egg 

To  the  beaten  egg,  add  sugar,  salt,  corn  meal  and  softened 
butter,  then  the  milk,  soda  dissolved  in  little  water,  and 
the  flour.  Bake  in  buttered  pan  about  twenty  five 
minutes;  makes  a  medium  size  loaf. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


GRIDDLE  CAKES 

BAKING  POWDER  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

2  cupfuls  sweet  milk  butter,  size  of  egg 

2  eggs  y-i  teaspoonful  salt 

flour  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  teaspoonful  sugar 

Add  the  beaten  egg  to  the  milk,  stir  in  the  salt,  sugar  and 
softened  butter,  and  sift  in  the  flour  in  which  the  baking 
powder  has  been  mixed.  Use  enough  flour  to  make  a 
batter  like  that  of  cake. 

Corn  meal  with  part  flour,  buckwheat  or  graham  flour, 
may  be  substituted. 

In  berry  season,  huckleberries,  blueberries  or  raspberries 
added  to  the  above  griddle  cake  batter,  are  delicious. 

Cold  boiled  rice  and  left  over  cereals  may  be  stirred  in 
almost  any  recipe  for  griddle  cakes. 

A  little  vinegar  added  to  the  sour  milk  batter  of  griddle 
cakes  just  before  frying,  is  good. 

BUCKWHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES  No.  1 

1  quart  buckwheat  flour  1  yeast  cake 

warm  water  1  tablespoonful  molasses 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Mix  at  night. 

To  the  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm  water  add  the 
salt,  molasses,  a  little  warm  water,  a  little  flour,  continu- 
ing to  add  flour  and  water  till  you  have  a  thin  batter. 
Keep  in  a  warm  place  till  morning,  add  a  pinch  of  soda, 

29 


30         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

fry  and  serve  with  butter  and  syrup,  maple  or  sugar 
syrup. 

SUGAR  SYRUP  FOR  HOT  CAKES 

Into  one  cupful  of  cold  water  in  a  quart  basin,  stir  all  the 
granulated   sugar  that  will   dissolve.    More   sugar  and 
water  can  be  added  as  necessary  to  keep  the  syrup  the 
right  consistency. 
This  syrup  never  becomes  hard. 

BUCKWHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES  No.  2 

2  cupfuls  scalded  milk  buckwheat  flour 

l/z  cupful  bread  crumbs  J^  teaspoonful  salt 

34  of  a  yeast  cake  %  teaspoonful  soda 

1  tablespoonful  molasses 

Mix  at  night. 

Pour  the  hot  milk  over  the  crumbs  and  when  the  mixture 
is  just  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  warm 
water,  salt,  and  enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  batter 
about  like  that  of  cake.  Keep  in  a  warm  place  till  morn- 
ing, add  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  the 
molasses.  Fry,  and  serve  as  desired.  If  about  one  cup- 
ful of  the  batter  is  set  aside,  it  can  be  used  instead  of  yeast 
for  the  next  making. 

OATMEAL  CAKES 

1  cupful  oatmeal  flour 

1  cupful  sour  milk  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

Yz  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1  egg 

Mix  at  night. 
Stir  the  oatmeal  into  the  milk  and  let  stand  in  a  not  too 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK    31 

cold  place  over  night.  In  the  morning,  add  the  sugar, 
salt,  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter  like  that  of  cake.  Fry  on  a  but- 
tered griddle  and  serve  with  butter  and  syrup. 

SOUR  MILK  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

2  cupfuls  sour  milk  butter,  size  of  egg 

1  egg  */£  teaspoonful  salt 
flour,    either    graham,    wheat      1  teaspoonful  soda 

flour  or  buckwheat  1  teaspoonful  sugar 

Add  the  beaten  egg  to  the  sour  milk,  then  stir  in  the  salt, 
sugar,  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  the  softened  but- 
ter and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  like  that  of  cake. 
Fry  and  serve  as  prepared. 

Bread  crumbs  or  even  corn  meal  with  part  flour  may  be 
used  instead  of  all  flour,  or  buckwheat,  or  graham  flour 
may  be  substituted. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES  WITH  JELLY 

2  cupfuls  flour  3  eggs 

2  cupfuls  milk  }4  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  sugar 

Stir  the  flour  into  the  beaten  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  salt  and 
milk.  Stir  thoroughly,  fry,  spread  with  jelly,  and  roll. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


CEREALS  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 

Good  directions  for  cooking  cereals  will  be  found  on  each 
package. 

Many  cooked  cereals  sliced  cold,  dipped  in  flour  and  fried, 
are  fine  served  with  syrup  and  butter. 

CORN  MEAL  MUSH 

Wet  two  cupfuls  corn  meal  in  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
cold  water,  stir  in  slowly  three  and  one-half  cupfuls  boil- 
ing water  and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Cook  at  least  one 
hour  in  double  boiler.  If  cooked  in  a  kettle,  butter  the 
inside  first,  to  prevent  sticking.  Serve  with  syrup,  or 
sugar  and  cream. 

Cook  enough  mush  to  have  some  left  to  slice  and  fry. 
Dip  the  slices  in  white  of  egg  to  make  crisp. 

FRIED  CORN  MEAL  MUSH 

Cut  slices  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  in  thickness 
from  the  cold  mush,  dip  on  a  plate  containing  flour,  and 
fry  in  butter.  Serve  with  butter,  syrup,  or  any  desired 
way. 

Cream  of  Wheat  when  cooked,  may  be  sliced  cold  and 
fried  like  corn  mush. 

PLAIN  AND  FANCY  TOASTS 
BIRD'S  NEST  TOAST 

Have  buttered  dry  toast  ready.    Break  each  egg  and  leave 

32 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK    33 

the  yolk  in  the  shell.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the  white 
and  beat  stiffly.  Arrange  the  beaten  white  on  the  toast, 
place  yolk  in  center,  put  in  the  oven  and  cook  to  suit. 

CHEESE  TOAST 

Butter  slices  of  bread,  lay  on  a  thin  slice  of  cheese  or 
cover  with  grated  cheese,  and  place  in  a  pan  in  the  oven, 
leaving  just  long  enough  for  cheese  to  melt.  Crackers 
may  be  similarly  toasted. 

DRY  TOAST 

Place  slices  of  bread  on  clean  top  of  hot  range  or  on  as- 
bestos mat  over  gas  stove,  turning  over  to  brown  on 
upper  side  after  under  side  is  browned. 

MARSHMALLOW  TOAST 

Cut  bread  in  thin  slices,  butter,  or  spread  with  jelly,  cut 
marshmallows  in  halves,  place  on  top  and  put  in  oven  for 
about  two  minutes,  till  the  marshmallow  is  a  bit  browned. 
Serve  immediately. 

MILK  TOAST 

2  cupfuls  milk  butter,  size  of  egg 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour  yz  teaspoonful  salt 

Stir  flour  smoothly  in  half  the  milk,  heat  the  remainder 
of  milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  flour  and  milk,  add  butter 
and  salt,  pouring  over  previously  toasted  bread.  Serve 
hot.  Bread  is  easily  toasted  by  laying  in  a  corn  popper 
and  holding  over  coals. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


EGGS 

BEATING  EGGS 

A  teaspoonful  of  cold  water  added  to  the  white  of  an  egg, 
makes  it  whip  more  quickly,  as  well  as  increase  in 
quantity. 

A  pinch  of  salt  will  make  white  of  an  egg  whip  more 
quickly. 

Add  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  while  whipping  white  of 
egg,  to  keep  from  falling  afterward. 

TO  PRESERVE  EGGS 

Add  one  quart  fresh  slaked  lime  to  two  gallons  of  water, 
pour  into  a  cask  and  put  in  the  eggs  till  ready  for  use. 
They  will  keep  for  months. 

Eggs  may  be  kept  for  months  in  table  salt. 

Or  to  three  gallons  of  water  add  one  pint  fresh  slaked 
lime  and  one-half  pint  table  salt.  Keep  the  eggs  always 
covered  in  the  brine. 

EGG  SUBSTITUTE 

One  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  is  equal  to  one  egg. 
Try  it  in  doughnuts. 

Unused  yolks  should  be  put  in  a  cold  place  in  an  un- 
covered glass  of  water,  where  they  will  keep  several  days. 

If  a  small  piece  of  shell  gets  in  a  broken  egg,  take  a  piece 

34 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         35 

of  shell  and  the  smaller  piece  will  adhere  to  it,  so  it  may 
be  easily  removed. 

When  a  bit  of  yolk  gets  in  with  the  white  in  separating 
the  parts,  touch  the  yolk  with  a  piece  of  dry  cloth  and  it 
will  adhere  to  it. 

BAKED  EGGS 

6  eggs  yz  cupful  melted  butter 

134  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

2  cupfuls  milk  a  little  pepper 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  milk  with  pepper  and  salt  for 
an  hour  or  more  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Add  the  butter,  stir 
well,  and  pour  in  a  small  deep  bread  pan.  With  a  spoon, 
make  six  depressions  the  size  of  an  egg,  break  the  eggs 
into  these  hollows,  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 

BOILED  EGGS 

Cover  eggs  in  cold  water,  and  remove  after  water  has 
boiled  two  minutes  if  soft  boiled  eggs  are  desired,  boiling 
longer  for  hard  boiled. 

Whenever  soft  boiled  eggs  are  left  over,  boil  them  hard 
at  once,  so  they  may  be  utilized  cold. 

DEVILED  EGGS  No.  1 

4  hard  boiled  eggs  dash  of  pepper 

melted  butter  2  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese 

y$  teaspoonful  mustard  1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

pinch  of  salt 

Boil  the  eggs  fifteen  minutes,  and  plunge  into  cold  water 


36    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

as  soon  as  taken  from  the  fire,  to  set  the  whites.  Cut 
eggs  in  two  and  mash  the  yolks,  add  cheese,  vinegar, 
mustard,  pepper,  salt,  and  enough  butter  to  make  the 
mixture  right  to  shape  in  the  size  of  yolks.  Place  these  in 
the  whites  to  look  like  whole  eggs.  Wrap  each  one  in  a 
small  piece  of  paraffin  paper,  and  pack  in  a  small  box. 

DEVILED  EGGS  No.  2 

Proceed  as  in  Deviled  Eggs  No.  1,  substituting  chow- 
chow  sauce  from  a  pickle  bottle  for  mustard,  and  chopped 
olives  for  cheese. 

After  making  Deviled  Eggs,  try  dipping  some  in  egg  and 
bread  crumbs,  frying  in  cooking  oil. 

EGG  GRAVY 

2  eggs  butter  size  of  walnut 

54  cupful  milk  salt  and  pepper 

Add  to  the  beaten  eggs  all  the  other  ingredients,  pour 
into  a  cold  stew  pan  and  stir  constantly  over  the  fire  till 
of  the  right  consistency.  Serve  from  a  gravy  bowl  on 
hot  potatoes. 

EGG  OMELET  No.  1 

4  eggs  1  tablespoonful  flour 

54  cupful  water  pinch  of  salt 

Smooth  flour  and  water  together,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks 
and  salt,  then  stir  in  very  lightly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites, 
and  pour  into  a  hot  buttered  pan.  Shake  the  pan  gently 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         37 

to  keep  the  mixture  from  burning.  As  soon  as  brown  on 
the  bottom,  fold  it  over  and  serve  at  once  on  a  hot  dish. 

Chopped  mushrooms  are  nice  in  omelet. 

Add  a  little  chopped  green  pepper  to  an  omelet. 

EGG  OMELET  No.  2 

5  eggs  y2  teaspoonful  onion  juice 

2  tablespoonfuls  cream  pinch  of  salt 

1  tablespoonful  butter  little  pepper 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  pars-  dash  of  nutmeg 
ley 

Beat  the  whites  stiffly  and  set  in  a  very  cold  place.  Beat 
in  with  the  yolks  all  of  the  other  ingredients,  add  care- 
fully to  the  whites  and  cook  in  hot  buttered  pan.  As  soon 
as  the  bottom  of  the  mixture  is  a  trifle  set,  lift  the  pan 
frequently  to  prevent  burning.  When  the  mixture  is 
browned  on  the  bottom,  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  top. 

FRUIT  OMELET 

raisins  lemons 

prunes  figs 

citron  oranges 

currants  juice  of  1  orange 

dash  of  cinnamon 

Mix  only  enough  of  the  fruit  to  just  half  fill  a  cup ;  run  it 
through  the  chopper,  add  cinnamon  and  put  all  in  a  double 
boiler  with  the  orange  juice  and  let  cook  thirty  minutes. 
Make  the  omelet  of 

4  eggs  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

pinch  of  salt  1  teaspoonful  butter 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  butter.     Melt  a  second  tea- 


38    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

spoonful  butter  in  a  pan,  turn  in  the  mixture,  letting  it 
brown,  continually  lifting  up  the  set  part  to  let  the  un- 
cooked run  on  the  hot  pan.  When  it  is  all  set,  pour  in  the 
hot  fruit,  fold  over  instantly  and  turn  on  a  plate. 

FRIED  EGGS 

Eggs  fried  in  a  hot  pan  in  which  a  piece  of  butter  is  first 
melted,  salt  and  pepper  added,  are  relished  by  many. 

A  spoonful  of  flour  sprinkled  over  butter  in  the  pan  ready 
to  fry  eggs,  will  prevent  their  sticking. 

POACHED  EGGS  No.  1 

Break  each  egg  carefully  in  a  dish  of  boiling  water,  into 
which  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  has  been  stirred,  remove 
in  a  draining  spoon  and  season.  Serve  on  buttered  toast. 
Dried  sliced  bread  dipped  in  milk  and  quickly  removed 
and  fried  in  butter,  with  a  poached  egg  served  on  each 
slice,  is  nice. 

Chopped  olives  mixed  with  one  beaten  egg,  a  little  water, 
pepper  and  salt,  fried  brown,  is  a  nice  accompaniment  to 
poached  eggs. 

POACHED  EGGS  No.  2 

Use  boiling  milk  instead  of  water  and  proceed  as  in 
Poached  Eggs  No.  1. 

RAW  EGGS 

For  one  who  enjoys  it,  an  egg  broken  carefully  into  a 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         39 

glass,  seasoned  with  salt,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  vine- 
gar or  a  little  wine,  and  swallowed  whole,  is  delicious. 

Or,  to  a  well  beaten  egg,  fill  the  glass  with  cream  or  milk, 
a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  sprinkle  of  nutmeg. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS 

Beat,  add  one  tablespoonful  milk,  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  into  a  hot  buttered  frying  pan  and  stir  constantly, 
adding  a  bit  of  butter.  Serve  as  desired. 

For  a  change,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  when 
scrambling  eggs. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


CHEESE  DISHES 

BAKED  CHEESE  No.  1 

1  cupful  grated  cheese  1  egg 

1  cupful  bread  crumbs  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

V/2  cupfuls  milk  J4  teaspoonful  pepper 

Mix  all  together,  bake  about  thirty  minutes,  and  serve 
immediately. 

BAKED  CHEESE  No.  2 

grated  cheese  pepper 

eggs  salt 

bread  crumbs  butter 

Butter  a  deep  pie  plate,  cover  the  bottom  with  a  layer 
of  cheese,  then  break  over  the  cheese  as  many  eggs  as 
desired,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  another  layer 
of  cheese,  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  scatter  over 
the  top  small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes. 

To  keep  cut  cheese  from  moulding,  wrap  in  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  vinegar. 

CHEESE  BALLS 

1  cupful  flour  1  egg 

yz  cupful  butter  pinch  of  salt 

*/4  cupful  grated  cheese  dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Thoroughly  mix  flour  and  softened  butter,  add  cheese 
and  beaten  egg,  salt  and  pepper,  roll  to  one-half  inch  in 

40 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         41 

thickness,  cut  with  a  small  cutter  and  bake,  or  dip  in  a 
beaten  egg  with  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  cooking  oil. 

Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  dressing  made  of  equal 
parts  olive  oil  and  vinegar. 

CREAM  CHEESE 

Use  grated  cheese  (grate  it  by  putting  through  the  food 
chopper),  season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  moisten  with  sweet  or  sour  cream.  After  standing 
a  day  or  two,  mould  the  mixture  into  balls  and  serve  like 
cream  cheese. 

DUTCH  OR  COTTAGE  CHEESE 

Scald  sour  or  buttermilk ;  as  soon  as  the  whey  separates, 
pour  it  off,  and  let  the  curd  drain  in  a  strainer.  When 
quite  dry,  add  a  little  salt  and  enough  sweet  cream  or 
milk  to  produce  the  right  consistency  to  mould  into  balls. 
Cottage  cheese  may  be  moulded  into  various  shapes, 
rolled  in  chopped  parsley  and  used  to  decorate  various 
salads. 

CHEESE  CUSTARD 

J/4  cupful  grated  cheese  4  eggs 

J4  cupful  milk  pinch  of  salt 

dash  of  pepper 

Cook  all  together  in  a  double  boiler  till  like  smooth 
custard,  then  pour  into  small  buttered  cups  and  bake 
ten  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 


42         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CHEESE  DREAMS 

2  eggs  1  cupful  milk 

iy2  tablespoonfuls  flour  buttered  sliced  bread 

cheese  pinch  of  salt 

Cut  bread  very  thin,  butter,  and  lay  in  slices  of  cheese  or 
sprinkle  in  grated  cheese  thickly,  like  sandwiches.  Smooth 
flour  in  with  beaten  eggs,  stir  in  milk  and  salt,  dip  sand- 
wiches in  and  fry  brown  in  a  buttered  pan. 

CHEESE  PUDDING  No.  1 

1  cupful  grated  cheese  1  dessertspoonful  butter 

1  cupful  boiling  milk  1  teaspoonful  flour 

2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  bread  crumbs       dash  of  pepper 

Mix  in  a  bowl,  cheese,  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  crumbs,  add 
the  boiling  milk,  softened  butter,  yolks  and  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Stir  thoroughly,  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  twenty 
minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

CHEESE  PUDDING  No.  2 

Y2  cupful  bread  crumbs  3  eggs 

\yt  cupfuls  milk  y2  teaspoonful  mustard 

2  cupfuls  grated  cheese  1  tablespoonful  butter 
1  cupful  whipped  cream  pinch  of  salt 

dash  of  pepper 

Mix  together  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  mustard  and  milk,  put 
in  double  boiler,  removing  when  hot  to  add  cheese  and 
beaten  yolks.  When  cool,  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  and 
cream.  Fill  baking  cups  half  full,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         43 

CHEESE  STRAWS  No.  1 

2%  cupfuls  grated  cheese  flour 

Y-L  cupful  butter  pinch  of  salt 

dash  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  cheese  and  softened  butter  thoroughly,  add  salt  and 
pepper  and  sufficient  flour  to  roll  the  dough  very  thin. 
Put  in  a  buttered  pan,  draw  a  knife  across  the  dough  in 
sections  one-half  inch  in  width,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

CHEESE  STRAWS  No.  2 

y-i  cupful  flour  1  egg 

J4  cupful  butter  y2  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

yz  cupful  grated  cheese  yz  teaspoonful  salt 

dash  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  part  of  flour,  beaten  egg  and  softened  butter,  add 
cheese,  salt  and  pepper,  and  remainder  of  flour  with  bak- 
ing powder  sifted  in.  Roll  thin,  place  in  pan  and  mark 
into  straws  with  a  sharp  knife.  Bake  quickly. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  No.  1 

l/2  cupful  macaroni  2  cupfuls  grated  cheese 

1  chopped  onion  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil 

2  cupfuls  strained  tomatoes  y2  teaspoonful  salt 

y2  cupful  milk 

Break  the  macaroni  into  inch  pieces,  boil  thirty  minutes 
and  pour  off  water.  Put  olive  oil  in  a  stew  pan,  add  onion 
and  shake  over  fire  till  onion  is  soft.  Add  macaroni  and 
tomatoes,  heat  thoroughly,  stir  in  the  other  ingredients, 
cook  for  about  ten  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

Two  cupfuls  tomatoes  are  generally  in  one  ordinary  can 
of  tomatoes.  This  serves  ten  people. 


44         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  No.  2 
*/4  cupful  macaroni  1  tablespoonful  corn  starch 

1  cupful  grated  cheese  a  little  salt 

1  cupful  milk 

Prepare  the  macaroni  as  per  directions  in  Macaroni  and 
Cheese  No.  1.  After  taking  macaroni  from  the  boiling 
water,  butter  a  baking  dish,  put  in  part  of  the  macaroni 
and  cover  it  with  milk  and  the  corn  starch  smoothed  in. 
Then  sprinkle  with  half  of  the  cheese,  then  the  macaroni, 
then  another  layer  of  cheese,  a  little  salt,  and  put  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  about  twenty  minutes. 

WELSH  RAREBIT  No.  1 

4  cupfuls  grated  cheese  1  teaspoonful  dry  mustard 

34  cupful  ale  1  teaspoonful  Worcestershire 

yolk  of  1  egg  sauce 

dash  of  pepper  pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoonful  butter 

Melt  butter  in  stew  pan,  add  cheese,  and  gradually  the  ale, 
stirring  constantly.  Break  egg  and  stir  in  mustard  and 
sauce,  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  all  together  and  cook  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  pour  over  toasted  bread. 
If  the  mixture  becomes  stringy  or  curdled,  add  a  pinch  of 
soda  to  make  it  creamy. 

WELSH  RAREBIT  No.  2 

4  cupfuls  grated  cheese  dash  cayenne  pepper 

54  cupful  milk  l/2  teaspoonful  dry  mustard 

1  egg  1  tablespoonful  butter 

pinch  of  salt 

Melt  butter  in  cooking  dish,  add  cheese,  then  beaten  egg 
and  other  ingredients,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  over 
toasted  buttered  bread.  Serves  five  people. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


SANDWICHES 

ABOUT  SANDWICHES 

Bake  bread  in  baking-powder  cans.  Butter  cans  and  fill 
one-third  full  when  dough  is  to  be  baked  with  the  covers 
on  (which  makes  a  tender  crust),  and  one-half  full  when 
it  is  to  be  baked  without  covers. 

When  necessary  to  make  sandwiches  some  time  in  ad- 
vance of  their  being  eaten,  wrap  them  in  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  hot  water  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

Do  not  use  bread  any  less  than  a  day  old. 

HERB  SANDWICHES 

Mix  chopped  lettuce,  pepper  grass,  watercress  and  pep- 
permint with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

VEGETABLE  SANDWICHES 

Cold  boiled  oyster  plant,  beets  and  cauliflower  with  any 
preferred  dressing. 

SANDWICH  FILLING  COMBINATIONS 

Cream  cheese  and  dates. 

Apples  and  onions. 

Two  parts  nuts,  one  part  preserved  ginger,  moistened 

with  thick  cream. 

45 


46         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

Olives  and  walnuts  moistened  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 
Sweetened  mashed  bananas. 

Jam  or  marmalade  covered  with  cream  cheese. 

For  a  sweet  sandwich,  chopped  figs  and  dates,  with  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice. 

Many  people  like  cayenne  pepper  sprinkled  on  bread  and 
butter  sandwiches  for  evening  refreshment 

Chopped  cold  boiled  eggs  and  lettuce  with  French  Dress- 
ing. 

Finely  chopped  peanuts  and  Mayonnaise. 
Chopped  nuts,  cream  cheese,  olive  oil  and  lemon  juice. 
Chopped  mint  leaves  with  French  Dressing. 
Chopped  onions  and  Mayonnaise. 

Lettuce  leaves  spread  with  Mayonnaise,  sprinkled  with 
grated  cheese  and  nuts. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


SOUPS 

If  soup  is  too  salty,  add  a  few  slices  of  raw  potato  and 
cook  a  few  minutes  longer  for  the  potato  to  absorb  the 
salt. 

If  soup  appears  lacking  in  strength,  stir  in  a  little  grated 
cheese. 

NUT  STOCK  FOR  SOUPS 

Put  two  cupfuls  of  mixed  chopped  nuts  in  a  stew  pan 
with  one  quart  of  water  and  let  them  stew  slowly  for  two 
hours,  then  strain  and  remove  the  water  for  stock. 

The  nuts  may  be  used  in  soups,  cakes,  or  any  preferred 
way. 

SOUP  BASIS 

Water  drained  from  boiled  rice  and  from  all  vegetables, 
is  used  as  a  basis  or  "stock"  for  soups. 

CROUTONS 

Cut  rather  dry  bread  into  one-half  inch  slices,  and  cut 
them  into  small  pieces.  Put  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  to 
brown.  Place  half  a  dozen  or  more  pieces  on  each  plate 
of  soup  just  before  serving. 


48         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP 

1  bunch  of  asparagus  y$  teaspoonful  salt 

2  cupfuls  milk  1  tablespoonful  flour 
Y+  cupful  cream  1  tablespoonful  butter 

dash  of  pepper 

Wash  asparagus  and  cut  off  the  tips.  Put  the  stalks  in 
cold  water  and  -boil  till  tender.  Put  them  through  a  col- 
ander, then  put  back  in  the  water  they  boiled  in.  Heat 
milk  to  the  boiling  point  and  stir  in  the  butter  and  flour 
smoothed  together.  Boil  ten  minutes,  pour  into  the  as- 
paragus, season,  add  cream  and  the  asparagus  tips  which 
have  been  boiled  by  themselves  in  cold  water  till  tender. 

A  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  is  nice  on  almost  any  soup, 
added  just  before  serving. 

BEAN  SOUP 

Take  as  many  stewed  or  baked  beans  as  desired,  put 
through  a  colander,  add  as  much  water  as  wished  and  boil 
about  ten  minutes.  Add  butter  size  of  an  egg  to  a  small 
kettle  of  soup,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  the 
soup  as  thick  as  desired  and  just  before  taking  from  the 
fire,  stir  in  about  a  cupful  of  milk.  A  few  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley on  each  plate  of  soup  is  pleasing. 

CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP 

1  quart  shelled  peas  dash  of  pepper 

1  quart  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  onion  1  tablespoonful  olive  oil 

1  cupful  cream  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Yz  teaspoonful  salt 

Put  peas  and  onion  in  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  boil 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK  .  49 

fifteen  minutes.  Heat  the  milk  in  double  boiler.  Smooth 
butter  and  flour  together  and  gradually  pour  the  hot  milk 
on  the  mixture,  pour  it  all  in  double  boiler  and  heat.  Take 
the  onion  from  the  peas  and  run  them  through  a  strainer, 
add  them  to  the  milk  mixture,  add  salt,  pepper,  oil  and 
cream,  and  keep  at  boiling  point  ten  minutes. 

PLAIN  POTATO  SOUP 

Peel,  and  cut  in  very  thin  small  pieces  three  medium  size 
potatoes.  Put  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter  in  a  soup 
kettle  and  let  it  melt  and  brown,  but  not  burn.  Turn  the 
potatoes  on  the  butter  and  stir  till  most  of  the  butter  is 
absorbed,  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  not  to 
let  the  mixture  burn.  Add  one  cupful  of  cold  water  and  let 
the  potatoes  come  to  boiling  point  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Then  add,  gradually,  one  cupful  of  milk  and  as  soon  as  it 
reaches  the  boiling  point,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour 
smoothed  in  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Remove  from  fire  and 
serve. 

QUICK  SOUP 

1  quart  can  tomatoes  %  cupful  flour 

1  slice  of  onion  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

2  cupfuls  water  1  teaspoonful  salt 

a  blade  of  mace 

Put  tomatoes,  water,  salt,  onion  and  mace  to  boiling  point, 
and  add  flour  and  butter  smoothed  together.  Stir  con- 
stantly till  the  mixture  boils,  run  through  a  sieve,  heat 
and  serve  with  croutons. 


50        PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

SALSIFY  SOUP 

Salsify  is  the  vegetable  oyster.  Scrape  the  salsify,  cut 
in  small  pieces  to  fill  a  quart  measure,  put  immediately 
into  cold  water.  Cook  till  tender,  being  careful  not  to 
burn  it,  put  through  a  colander,  add  one  quart  milk,  butter 
size  of  egg  and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Let  come  to  a 
boil  and  remove  from  fire. 

TOMATO  SOUP 

1  quart  cut  tomatoes  1  cucumber 

2  cupfuls  water  %  teaspoonful  cloves 

1  slice  of  onion  1  dessertspoonful  sugar 

part  of  a  bay  leaf 

Wash,  peel,  and  cut  the  tomato  and  cucumber  in  small 
pieces  to  make  one  quart.  Boil  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients for  twenty  minutes,  put  through  a  strainer. 
Prepare 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  Vz  teaspoonful  soda 

Warm  the  butter  and  smooth  in  the  flour,  add  salt  and 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  stirring  constantly, 
add  gradually  the  hot  soup,  let  come  to  a  boil,  and  re- 
move from  fire. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

2  potatoes  1  turnip 

2  quarts  water  J4  cupful  rice 

1  cupful  tomato  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  carrot  dash  of  pepper 

1  onion  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil 

Peel  potatoes,  turnip  and  onion,  scrape  the  carrot,  slice 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK    51 

each  very  thinly,  put  into  the  cold  water  and  boil  one 
hour.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the  rice  in  double  boiler, 
cook  till  partly  done,  then  add  to  the  vegetables  that  have 
been  cooked  one  hour,  and  put  in  the  other  ingredients 
and  cook  one  more  hour. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

4  cupfuls  chopped  corn  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil 

4  cupfuls  sliced  potatoes  ^  cupful  flour 

2  chopped  onions  2  cupfuls  hot  milk 

salt 

Cut  the  kernels  from  about  a  dozen  ears  of  corn  and  put 
through  the  food  chopper.  Slice  the  potatoes  very  thinly. 
Put  the  oil  in  the  kettle,  and  stir  the  onions  in  it  for 
about  five  minutes,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  corn,  then 
potatoes,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  salt  and  flour,  adding 
the  layers  till  vegetables  are  all  used.  Then  just  cover 
with  boiling  water  and  let  cook  for  thirty  minutes,  turn 
in  the  hot  milk  and  serve  hot. 

NUT  CHOWDER 

4  potatoes  2  cupfuls  chopped  nuts 

2  turnips  1  quart  water 

1  onion  1  tablespoonful  olive  oil 

2  cupfuls  milk  a  little  thyme  and  sweet  mar- 
2  tablespoonfuls  flour  joram 

2  tablespoonfuls  peanut  butter      1  teaspoonful  salt 

Put  the  nuts  with  the  water  and  stew  slowly  for  two 
hours,  then  strain.  Peel  and  cut  in  thin  slices  potatoes, 
turnips  and  onions.  Put  the  oil  in  a  soup  kettle,  then  add 


52    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

a  layer  of  potatoes,  one  of  the  turnips  and  onions,  sprinkle 
in  a  little  thyme,  sweet  marjoram  and  salt,  and  then  add 
a  layer  of  nuts,  then  potatoes,  turnips,  etc.,  till  the  in- 
gredients are  all  used,  and  finally  pour  on  the  boiling  hot 
water  strained  from  the  nuts.  Cook  about  twenty  minutes, 
and  stir  in  the  flour  which  has  been  gradually  smoothed 
into  the  milk,  and  the  peanut  butter.  Serve  hot.  Makes 
four  plates. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


VEGETABLES 

BAKED  ASPARAGUS 

1  cupful  asparagus  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley 

1  cupful  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

3  eggs  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Yz  teaspoonful  salt 

Cook  the  asparagus  and  parsley  together  in  a  stew  pan, 
same  as  Boiled  Asparagus.  When  tender,  remove  from 
fire  and  stir  in  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Smooth  the  flour 
in  part  gradually  adding  all  of  the  milk,  and  pour  over 
asparagus  in  stew  pan  over  fire,  add  butter  and  salt  and 
when  well  mixed,  but  not  boiling,  turn  into  a  buttered 
baking  mould,  set  the  mould  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  until  firm.  Serve  with  melted  butter. 

BOILED  ASPARAGUS 

Cut  off  the  tough  ends  of  the  stalks,  scrape  the  stem  an,d 
leave  the  asparagus  in  cold  salt  water  thirty  minutes. 
Tie  in  a  bunch,  put  upright  in  a  kettle  holding  enough 
water  to  reach  to  the  tips.  Cook  till  the  stalks  are  tender, 
and  the  tips  will  be  done  just  right.  Serve  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  or  on  toasted  bread,  or  with  a  cupful  of 
hot  cream  or  milk  poured  over  it. 

BAKED  BEANS 

15/2  cupfuls  beans  pinch  of  soda 

54  cupful  butter  1  tablespoonful  molasses 

5/2  cupful  chopped  nuts  1  teaspoonful  salt 

dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Soak  the  beans  in  cold  water  over  night.    In  the  morning, 

53 


54    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

drain  off  the  water,  put  into  cold  water,  let  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  drain  off,  put  again  into  cold  water  and  boil 
second  fifteen  minutes,  and  repeat  a  third  time.    Be  sure 
the  beans  are  put  in  very  cold  water  each  time.    After  the 
third  boiling,  pour  off  the  water,  cover  with  cold  water, 
stir  in  the  other  ingredients  and  boil  ten  minutes.    Then 
pour  into  a  bean  pot  and  bake  all  day,  adding  boiling 
water  if  the  water  bakes  out.     Leave  off  the  cover  ten 
minutes  before  finishing  the  baking. 
They  may  be  baked  at  two  different  times,  if  the  oven  is 
being  used  two  successive  half  days. 
A  chopped  onion  is  good  added  to  the  beans. 
A  cupful  of  cream  stirred  in  during  the  last  hour  of  bak- 
ing is  a  delicious  addition. 
Peanuts  are  good  nut  to  use  with  beans. 
A  half  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  a  half  cupful  of  butter 
instead  of  a  fourth  cupful,  omitting  the  nuts,  but  using 
the  other  ingredients,  makes  a  nice  dish. 
In  winter,  set  the  beanpot  on  the  ledge  or  shelf  inside 
your  furnace  door.    In  the  summer,  if  possible,  bake  in  a 
fireless  cooker,  leaving  in  four  hours.    Re-heating  for  ten 
minutes  and  putting  in  the  cooker  for  another  four  hours. 
Serve  with  Boston  Brown  Bread. 
Most  people  enjoy  catsup  on  beans. 

BEAN  CROQUETTES 

2  cupfuls  baked  beans  bread  crumbs 

egg  2  tablespoonfuls  catsup 

a  good  dash  of  red  pepper 

Put  the  beans  through  a  colander,  work  in  the  other  in- 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         55 

gredients,  shape  into  small  croquettes,  roll  in  crumbs, 
dip  in  the  beaten  egg,  roll  again  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep 
cooking  oil. 

BEAN  HASH 

Put  two  cupfuls  baked  beans  through  a  colander,  add 
four  cupfuls  chopped  cooked  potatoes,  mix,  put  in  a  fry- 
ing pan  with  a  little  water  and  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  stir  and  heat  till  of  the 
desired  consistency. 

BAKED  LIMA  BEANS 

Soak  one  cupful  dried  lima  beans  over  night.  Next  morn- 
ing, drain  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Let  them  cool, 
drain,  cover  the  second  time  with  boiling  water,  cool  and 
repeat  for  the  third  time.  Slip  off  the  loosened  skins,  put 
the  beans  in  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  hot  milk,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  and  bake  for  two  hours.  Re- 
move the  cover  after  about  one  hour's  baking,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  small  pieces,  scatter  over  the 
top  of  the  beans,  and  complete  baking  with  the  cover  off. 

FRESH  LIMA  BEANS 

Shell  and  put  in  boiling  water  and  boil  till  tender.  Drain 
off  the  water,  add  one-fourth  cupful  butter  to  an  ordinary 
kettle  of  beans,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
hot. 

STEWED  BEANS 

Prepare  as  for  Baked  Beans;  after  the  third  boiling,  put 
again  in  cold  water  and  stew  till  tender. 


56         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

Beans  continue  to  improve  by  warming  over.  Put  them 
in  a  buttered  frying  pan,  with  a  little  water,  cover  a  few 
minutes,  stir  to  prevent  sticking  and  as  soon  as  heated, 
remove  from  fire. 

Sliced  raw  onions  are  fine  with  beans. 

SUMMER  BEANS 

Wash,  cut  in  small  pieces,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  till  tender.  Drain  off  water  and  season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt. 

BAKED  BEETS 

Scrub  thoroughly  after  green  tops  are  removed,  and  place 
in  oven  to  bake  till  tender. 

BOILED  BEETS 

Scrub  and  wash  the  beets  after  green  tops  are  removed, 
place  in  cold  water,  let  boil  till  tender,  remove  from  fire, 
drain,  immerse  quickly  in  cold  water  to  make  skins  peel 
easily.  Peel  and  serve  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

BEET  HASH 

Use  boiled  beets  and  boiled  potatoes  in  the  proportion  of 
two  cupfuls  chopped  potatoes  to  one  of  beets.  Mix,  and 
put  in  a  buttered  frying  pan  with  a  little  water.  Add 
butter  size  of  a  walnut  to  each  cupful  of  the  vegetables, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  and  cook  till  not 
too  moist. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         57 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS 

Pick  off  the  old  leaves  and  wash  the  sprouts.  Put  a  pinch 
of  soda  in  a  little  boiling  water  in  a  kettle,  turn  in  the 
sprouts,  adding  boiling  water  to  cover.  Boil  until  tender, 
drain,  add  butter,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

BAKED  CABBAGE 

1  medium  sized  cabbage  1  small  chopped  onion 
y^  cupful  chopped  English  wal-      */2  cupful  boiled  rice 

nuts  a  little  sage 

salt  and  pepper 

Hollow  out  the  cabbage,  and  fill  with  the  dressing  well 
stirred  together.    Place  in  a  bag  tied  at  the  top  and  boil 
about  one  hour.     When  done,  remove  from  bag,  add  a 
few  small  pieces  of  butter  on  top,  and  serve  hot. 
Egg  plant  may  be  cooked  as  above. 

BOILED  CABBAGE 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  till  those  exposed  are  clean  and 
fresh.  Wash,  cut  in  pieces  and  put  in  cold  water  in  a 
kettle  with  a  little  salt.  Boil  about  thirty  minutes,  drain 
and  serve  with  this — 

CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  VEGETABLES 

5/2  cupful  milk  1  dessertspoonful  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  made  mustard      1  dessertspoonful  melted  but- 
2  tablespoonfuls  warm  vinegar  ter 

Smooth  the  flour  into  just  water  enough  for  it  to  be  pasty, 
add  a  little  of  the  milk,  heat  the  remainder  milk  in  a 


58         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

double  boiler  and  add  flour  mixture,  stirring  constantly. 

When  very  hot,  not  boiling,  add  the  other  ingredients, 
heat  for  a  few  moments  and  remove  from  fire. 

Always  soak  cabbage  in  salty  water  a  half  hour  before 
cooking. 

Place  a  piece  of  bread  in  the  kettle  with  boiling  cabbage 
to  do  away  with  the  odor. 

CARROTS 

Always  soak  carrots  in  cold  water  three  or  four  hours 
before  using.  And  always  cut  them  in  slices  when  they 
are  to  be  served  in  creams,  because  the  outer  part  is 
richer  in  flavor  than  the  center. 

BOILED  CARROTS 

Wash,  scrape  and  put  into  cold  water  and  boil  till  tender. 

Drain  off  the  water,  and  serve  whole  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt. 

CARROTS  WITH  DRESSING 

3  cupfuls  sliced  carrots  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  cupful  milk  1  dessertspoonful  flour 

dash  of  pepper  y2  teaspoonful  salt 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  the  carrots  into  thin  slices.  Cover 
with  boiling  water  in  a  stew  pan  and  cook  till  tender. 
Drain  off  the  water  and  return  to  fire,  adding  the  butter 
and  seasoning.  Smooth  the  flour  into  a  little  milk  grad- 
ually adding  all  of  it,  and  stir  it  into  the  carrots,  letting 
all  come  to  boiling  heat,  then  remove  from  fire. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         59 

CAULIFLOWER 

Always  soak  cauliflower  in  cold  water  one  hour  before 
boiling  in  salted  water  about  thirty  minutes.  Place  it 
head  down  in  the  kettle,  and  be  sure  it  is  all  covered 
with  water.  , 

CELERY 

Wash  the  stalks  after  breaking  them  apart,  leave  part  of 
the  green  tops  on,  put  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  and  dry 
quickly  on  a  soft  towel  before  serving. 

CORN 

Do  not  use  salted  water  in  which  to  boil  corn,  as  the  salt 
toughens  it. 

BOILED  CORN 

Husk  the  corn,  cut  off  any  brown  ends  or  spots,  put  in 
cold  water,  and  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 
Re-wrap  the  ears  in  the  inner  husk,  tie  around  with  twine 
and  boil. 

CORN  IN  MILK 

With  a  sharp  knife,  cut  the  kernels  from  boiled  corn,  place 
in  a  stew  pan,  cover  with  milk,  add  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
pepper  and  salt,  heat  to  boiling  point,  and  serve. 

CORN  IN  TOMATOES 

Wash,  peel  and  scoop  out  the  centers  of  firm  tomatoes, 
turn  down  and  drain  for  a  few  minutes,  then  fill  with  a 


60    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

mixture  of  uncooked  sweet  corn  kernels  cut  from  the  ear, 
a  few  chopped  mushrooms,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter, and  pepper  and  salt  for  each  tomato.  Pack  closely 
in  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  for  about  thirty  minutes. 

FRIED  CORN  CAKES 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  canned  or  fresh  corn      pinch  of  salt 

2  eggs  flour 

Add  the  beaten  yolks  to  the  milk,  salt  and  corn.  Stir  in 
a  cupful  of  flour  containing  the  baking  powder,  then  a 
little  more  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  stir  in  very 
lightly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  If  more  flour  is  needed, 
stir  it  in  carefully.  Fry  on  a  hot  buttered  griddle  and 
serve  with  syrup  or  molasses. 

CUCUMBERS 

Wash,  peel  and  slice  cucumbers,  soak  in  cold  salt  water 
one  hour,  drain,  put  on  a  cloth  to  dry,  and  serve  cold. 

EGG  PLANT 

Wash,  peel  and  cut  into  slices  about  three-fourths  of  an 
inch  in  thickness.  Soak  in  salted  water  for  an  hour.  Put 
a  heavy  earthen  dish  on  the  slices  to  keep  them  under 
water.  Remove  from  the  salt  water,  dip  in  egg,  then  in 
flour  and  fry  slowly  in  a  buttered  frying  pan.  Use  butter 
enough  to  prevent  the  slices  sticking.  Cover  part  of  the 
time.  Turn  them  to  brown  on  the  other  side,  using  a 
pancake  turner.  Serve  hot.  Egg  plant  may  also  be  baked 
like  cabbage. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         61 

GREEN  THINGS 

Save  leaves  of  celery,  parsley  and  other  herbs,  and  dry 
in  the  warming  oven.  When  thoroughly  dry,  pack  away 
in  glass  jars  to  have  ready  for  flavoring  soups  and  vege- 
tables. 

A  pinch  of  soda  in  the  water  in  which  green  vegetables 
are  boiled,  is  a  help  to  keeping  color. 

When  root  vegetables  have  withered,  to"  revive  them, 
slice  off  the  ends,  then  put  the  vegetables  in  cold  water, 
leaving  them  for  several  hours. 

If  a  small  piece  of  charcoal  is  placed  in  the  vegetable 
kettle,  disagreeable  odors  will  be  removed,  and  vegetables 
not  injured. 

SPINACH  GREENS 

Wash  spinach  very  carefully  in  at  least  three  waters  to 
remove  all  dirt.    Cook  in  boiling  water  till  tender,  drain 
and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
A  little  cream  may  be  heated  and  poured  over  it. 

WATER  CRESS  GREENS 

Wash,  leave  out  the  large  stems,  and  put  the  other  pieces 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  to  cook  thirty  minutes.  Drain 
well,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

LENTILS 

Soak  dried  lentils  in  water  over  night,  drain  and  put  in  a 
kettle  with  plenty  of  cold  water  and  cook  till  tender. 
Drain,  add  butter,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 


62    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MACARONI  AND  CORN 

$4  cupful  macaroni  ^£  teaspoonful  salt 

1%  cupful  corn  1  cupful  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch 

Break  macaroni  into  inch  pieces,  boil  thirty  minutes, 
drain  and  put  one-half  of  it  in  a  buttered  baking  pan  about 
the  size  of  a  bread  pan.  Cover  with  milk,  put  one-half 
the  corn  over  it,  add  the  remainder  of  the  macaroni,  then 
the  last  of  the  corn.  Scatter  a  few  bits  of  butter  over  the 
top,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  bake. 

Cooked  sweet  corn  cut  from  the  ears  may  be  used,  or 
canned  corn. 

MACARONI  AND  RICE 

Cook  like  Macaroni  and  Corn. 

MACARONI  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE 

*/4  cupful  macaroni  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

1  cupful  milk  54  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Break  macaroni  into  inch  pieces,  put  in  boiling  water  to 
cover,  boil  thirty  minutes  and  drain.  Then  cover  it  with 
cold  water  and  put  on  the  fire  to  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Smooth  the  flour  into  a  little  milk  gradually  using  all  of 
it,  add  butter  and  salt,  and  stir  into  the  macaroni,  re- 
moving from  fire  as  soon  as  mixture  thickens. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


NUT  RECIPES 

TO  FRESHEN  STALE  NUTS 

Remove  shells  and  soak  over  night  in  equal  parts  of  water 
and  milk,  then  dry  in  the  oven,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 

TO  BLANCH  NUTS 

Remove  shells  and  pour  boiling  water  over  the  nut  meats. 
Allow  them  to  soak  a  few  minutes,  then  rub  a  few  of 
them  in  a  coarse  crash  towel  and  if  the  skins  do  not  loosen 
readily,  let  them  soak  till  they  do. 

TO  CRACK  NUTS  WHOLE 

Pour  boiling  water  over  nuts,  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  remove  from  fire,  let  cool,  and  crack. 

SALTED  ALMONDS 

Blanch  the  nuts,  dry  them  in  a  towel,  place  them  in  a 
shallow  pan  and  pour  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  olive 
oil,  stir  them  about,  sprinkle  with  fine  salt  and  put  them 
in  the  oven  to  become  light  brown. 

BOILED  CHESTNUTS 

Put  in  boiling  water  and  cook  till  mealy.  Serve  in  indi- 
vidual saucers,  the  nuts  to  be  opened  with  sharp  knives. 
The  nuts  may  be  sprinkled  with  salt. 

63 


64        PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MASHED  CHESTNUTS 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  shell  of  each  nut  and  leave  them  in  boil- 
ing water  till  the  shells  are  easily  removed.  Put  the 
meats  in  boiling  water  and  cook  till  soft.  Drain  off  the 
water,  put  the  nuts  through  a  potato  masher,  return  to 
the  kettle  and  stir  in  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Serve  hot 
like  mashed  potatoes. 

NUT  HASH 

Take  two  parts  chopped  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  one 
part  chopped  nut  roast.  Mix  well,  put  in  a  frying  pan 
with  small  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  water.  Cover  for 
a  few  minutes,  then  remove  cover,  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt,  stir  till  of  the  desired  consistency,  and  serve  hot. 
Chopped  nuts  may  be  added,  if  desired.  Serve  with  sliced 
raw  onions,  or  catsup. 

NUT  ROAST  No.  1 

1  cupful  bread  crumbs  dash  of  pepper 

1  cupful  chopped  nuts  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

1  cupful  boiled  rice  2  raw  eggs 

34  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  sage 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk  for  about  one  hour,  stir  in  the  beaten 
eggs,  and  seasoning,  then  add  the  chopped  hard  boiled 
eggs,  nuts  and  rice.  Press  into  a  pan  to  shape,  then  turn 
into  a  buttered  baking  tin  and  bake  from  forty-five  to 
sixty  minutes. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         65 

STEAMED  NUT  ROAST  No.  2 

2  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

\yt  cupfuls  milk  dash  of  pepper 

2  cupfuls  chopped  nuts  1  teaspoonful  chopped  onion  or 

sage 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk  for  one  hour,  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients and  mix  thoroughly.  Press  into  buttered  baking 
powder  cans,  filling  two-thirds  full,  steam  three  hours, 
remove  covers,  and  serve  hot,  or  let  stand  till  cold,  slice, 
dip  in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  then  again  in  egg  and 
fry  in  a  buttered  frying  pan.  Serve  with  catsup. 

NUT  ROAST  No.  3 

1/4  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoonful  powdered  sage 

1  cupful  milk  Y-i  teaspoonful  salt 
1%  cupfuls  chopped  nuts               2  eggs 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk,  stir  in  nuts,  beaten  eggs  and  season- 
ing. Press  the  mixture  into  a  pan  to  mould  it  into  the 
desired  shape,  then  turn  it  into  a  buttered  baking  pan  and 
bake  from  forty-five  to  sixty  minutes. 

This  roast  is  good  served  with  sage  cheese.  Makes  a 
small  loaf. 

NUT  SCRAPPLE 

2  cupfuls  corn  meal  5  cupfuls  boiling  water 
1  cupful  hominy  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2}4  cupfuls  chopped  nuts 

Moisten  the  meal  and  hominy  in  cold  water,  then  stir  in 
gradually  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
till  like  mush.  Then  stir  in  the  nuts  and  pour  into  a  but- 


66    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

tered  baking  tin.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  slice 
and  fry  in  butter.  Serve  on  a  platter  with  green  garnish- 
ings  for  a  dinner  dish. 

ALMOND  NUT  FORCEMEAT 

2-3  cupful  chopped  almonds          y^  cupful  cream 
3  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  3  eggs 

54  cupful  melted  butter  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil 

a  dash  of  nutmeg 

Add  cream  to  beaten  yolks.  Blanch  and  chop  the  almonds 
to  fill  two-thirds  of  a  cup  and  mix  with  the  white  of  one 
egg.  Stir  crumbs  and  melted  butter  in  a  mixing  bowl, 
add  oil,  then  nuts,  then  the  cream  and  yolk  mixture,  nut- 
meg, and  finally  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Press  into  a 
mould  and  bake  carefully,  or  form  into  small  balls  and 
fry  five  minutes,  and  serve  around  a  roast. 

PEANUT  BUTTER 

Shell  peanuts  and  remove  inner  skins.  Put  them  through 
the  finest  chopper  several  times,  and  mix  with  olive  oil 
till  like  a  very  thick  cream,  and  keep  in  a  covered  glass 
jar. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


ONIONS 

.   BAKED  ONIONS 

1  cupful  hot  milk  3  eggs 

2-3  cupful  cold  milk  y2  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  cold  boiled  onions  1  tablespoonful  butter 

1  cupful  bread  crumbs  dash  of  pepper 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  cold  milk  one  hour,  then  add  the 
hot  milk  with  butter  melted  in,  beaten  yolks,  salt,  pepper 
and  onions.  Mix  thoroughly,  then  stir  in  very  lightly  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites,  turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and 
bake  forty-five  minutes.  Serve  hot. 

To  remove  the  smell  on  the  hands  after  peeling  onions, 
hold  the  hands  immediately  under  cold  running  water. 
Hold  the  paring  knife  there  too. 

BOILED  ONIONS 

Wash,  remove  outer  skin,  and  put  into  cold  salted  water 
to  boil  till  tender.  When  done,  drain  off  the  water,  cut  into 
pieces  in  the  kettle  with  a  spoon,  add  butter,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Or  leave  them  whole,  making  a  cream  dressing  like  that 
for  new  potatoes. 

FRIED  ONIONS 

Wash,  peel  and  slice  the  onions  very  thin,  and  put  them 
into  a  hot  frying  pan  containing  butter.  Stir  them  enough 
to  keep  from  burning,  and  cook  till  browned.  Lift  from 

67 

r 


68        PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

the  pan  with  a  skimmer  to  remove  the  melted  butter,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

RAW  ONIONS 

Wash,  remove  the  outer  skin  and  slice.    Season  with  salt. 
pepper,  and  vinegar,  if  desired. 

They  may  also  be  served  with  French  dressing,  and  are 
fine  with  sliced  cucumbers  and  tomatoes. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


POTATOES 

BAKED  POTATOES 

Wash  them,  wipe  dry,  and  rub  over  with  a  little  oil  or 
butter.  They  will  bake  beautifully. 

Potatoes  may  be  first  peeled,  then  baked  in  a  hot  even. 

To  bake  them  quickly,  boil  in  salted  water  ten  minutes, 
then  bake. 

Or  place  them  close  together  in  the  oven  and  cover  with 
a  pie  plate. 

If  potatoes  are  immersed  in  hot  water  before  boiling, 
they  may  be  easily  peeled. 

To  prevent  discoloration,  peel  them  and  let  stand  an  hour 
in  cold  water,  before  boiling. 

A  spray  of  mint  in  the  water  potatoes  boil  in,  gives  a  nice 
flavor. 

BOILED  POTATOES 

Wash,  peel  or  not,  put  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt,  and 
boil  till  tender. 

NEW  POTATOES 

New  potatoes  must  be  washed  and  scraped  (not  peeled), 
and  put  to  cook  in  boiling  salted  water.  When  tender, 
drain  off  the  water,  add  butter  (size  of  an  egg  to  a  small 
kettle  full),  a  cupful  of  cream  into  which  is  smoothed  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  (or  a  cupful  of  milk  with  one  and 

69 


70    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  flour),  and  a  little  pepper.  Let 
come  to  a  nice  boil  and  serve. 

Instead  of  scraping  new  potatoes,  let  them  boil  a  while  till 
the  skins  are  ready  to  peel  off,  peel  them  and  put  in  the 
oven  to  bake. 

BOILED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Wash  the  potatoes,  cut  out  any  bad  spots,  cover  with  cold 
water  in  a  kettle  to  boil  about  thirty  minutes.  Drain  off 
the  water,  scrape  the  peel  off,  putting  each  potato  imme- 
diately back  in  the  covered  kettle  to  keep  hot  till  all  are 
peeled. 

To  be  eaten  with  butter  and  salt,  or  mashed  on  the  indi- 
vidual plates  and  eaten  with  plenty  of  cream  or  milk, 
with  a  spoon. 

POTATOES  AND  CHEESE 

Stew  sliced  potatoes  till  well  done.  Drain  the  water  off 
and  turn  potatoes  into  a  sauce  pan  and  add  chopped 
cheese.  Stir  constantly  till  cheese  is  melted,  and  the 
mixture  is  like  creamed  potatoes.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

FRIED  POTATOES  No.  1 

6  large  potatoes  parsley 

1  cupful  flour  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

cooking  oil 

Wash  and  peel  potatoes  and  slice  very  thinly.  Make  a 
paste  by  mixing  baking  powder  and  flour,  adding  milk 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         71 

enough  to  make  it  smooth,  salt,  and  stir  in  the  sliced 
potato.  Fry  in  deep  cooking  oil,  drain  on  clean  brown 
paper  and  sprinkle  with  parsley. 

FRIED  POTATOES  No.  2 

Slice  cold  boiled  peeled  potatoes,  heat  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  potatoes  in  pan,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover.  Cook  a  few  minutes, 
remove  cover,  add  a  little  more  butter,  turn  them  to 
brown  on  other  side,  cover  for  a  minute  or  so,  till  done. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES 

\Yz  tablespoonfuls  butter  2  cupfuls  cold  boiled  sliced  po- 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion  tatois 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  y$  teaspoonful  salt 

Yz  tablespoonful  chopped  pars-  dash  of  pepper 
ley 

Cook  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  the  onion 
for  five  minutes.  Cook  the  melted  butter,  potatoes, 
pepper  and  salt,  until  the  potatoes  have  absorbed  the 
butter,  then  add  the  onion  mixture,  stir  well  and  add 
parsley. 

MASHED  POTATOES 

Boil  peeled  potatoes ;  when  done,  drain  off  water,  add 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  pepper,  mash  with  a  potato  masher, 
and  add  milk  enough  to  make  creamy.  Or,  after  water 
is  drained  off,  put  through  a  perforated  potato  masher  and 
with  a  large  spoon,  beat  in  butter,  pepper  and  milk. 
Beat  in  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  when 
mashing  potatoes,  to  make  them  light. 


72         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

STUFFED  POTATOES 

Bake  medium  size  potatoes  about  thirty  minutes.  When 
done,  cut  in  two  and  remove  the  inside  from  the  peel.  Put 
the  potato  into  a  heated  bowl  and  mash.  Then  to  each 
three  potatoes,  beat  this  mixture  together: 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese      5^  teaspoonful  salt 
white  of  1  egg  1  teaspoonful  butter 

Fill  the  six  shells  with  the  mixture,  set  in  a  baking  dish 
and  bake  till  brown.  By  counting  the  potatoes  you  can 
get  the  exact  quantities  required  for  filling. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


PROTOSE,  PARSNIPS,  ETC. 

BAKED  PROTOSE 

Slices  of  protose  may  be  placed  in  a  buttered  baking  tin, 
sprinkled  with  chopped  onions,  pepper  and  salt,  and  baked 
for  about  twenty  minutes. 

FRIED  PROTOSE 

Cut  protose  in  slices  three-fourths  of  an  inch  in  thickness, 
dip  in  egg,  then  fry  in  a  buttered  frying  pan.  When 
brown  on  one  side,  turn  them  over  with  a  pancake  turner, 
fry  on  the  other  side  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  with  green  onions  or  catsup. 

PROTOSE  HASH 

Same  directions  as  for  Nut  Hash. 

BAKED  PARSNIPS 

Clean  with  a  vegetable  brush  and  proceed  same  as  in 
baking  potatoes. 

BOILED  PARSNIPS 

Boil  same  as  potatoes,  pour  melted  butter,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS 

Cut  boiled  parsnips  in  slices,  fry  in  butter  and  season. 

73 


74         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

PARSNIP  CAKES 

Mash  boiled  parsnips  through  a  colander  and  to  each  cup- 
ful, add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
shape  into  little  cakes  and  fry  in  butter. 

PARSNIP  CROQUETTES 

Cut  boiled  parsnips  into  short  pieces,  dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  bread  crumbs,  dip  again  in  the  egg  and  fry  in  deep 
cooking  oil. 

GREEN  PEAS 

Shell,  cover  with  boiling  water  in  a  stew  pan.  Cook 
slowly  till  tender,  drain,  add  butter  size  of  egg,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt  and  dash  of  pepper.  Pour  into  a  hot 
dish  and  serve  in  small  dishes. 

Or  add  a  cupful  of  milk,  allowing  it  to  become  hot  when 
added  with  the  butter. 

A  leaf  of  spinach  may  be  added  to  the  water  in  which  peas 
are  boiled  to  help  them  to  retain  a  good  green  color. 

A  teaspoonful  of  sugar  may  be  added  to  peas  while 
boiling. 

A  sprig  of  mint  in  the  boiling  peas  adds  a  nice  flavor. 

Peas  may  be  cooked  by  washing  the  pods  and  boiling 
them  whole.  When  done,  the  pods  will  burst  open  and 
the  peas  will  go  to  the  bottom. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Cut  out  stems  and  seeds,  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         75 

stand  a  few  minutes  and  drain.  Fill  with  equal  parts 
cooked  rice  and  tomatoes,  or  with  bread  crumbs  soaked  in 
cold  milk,  and  chopped  nuts.  Season  with  salt.  Stand 
on  the  small  ends  close  together  in  a  baking  pan  contain- 
ing a  little  water,  and  bake. 

BOILED  RICE 

Wash  two  cupfuls  rice,  put  in  a  double  boiler  and  cover 
with  four  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Do  not  stir,  but  let 
cook  till  each  kernel  stands  separately.  Then  stir  in  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

If  desired  for  a  pudding,  add  raisins,  two  beaten  eggs 
and  put  in  a  baking  dish  and  bake. 

Or  it  may  be  added,  part  or  in  whole,  to  flour  enough  to 
thicken  like  stiff  dough,  dipped  in  egg,  then  in  bread 
crumbs,  again  in  egg  and  fried  in  a  buttered  frying  pan. 

Rice  may  also  be  cooked  in  milk. 

Rice  may  be  served  with  fruits,  sugar  and  cream,  or  in 
any  preferred  style. 

RICE  TOMATOES 

Stir  one-half  cupful  cooked  rice  into  two  cupfuls  stewed 
tomatoes,  stew  for  ten  minutes,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

A  teaspoonful  of  sugar  may  be  added,  if  desired. 

BAKED  SQUASH 

Clean  the  outside  of  a  winter  squash,  cut  in  two,  remove 
seeds,  sprinkle  salt  inside  and  fasten  the  halves  together 


76    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

with  long  metal  skewers.  Then  place  in  a  pan  in  the 
oven  and  bake.  Serve  whole  on  a  platter,  the  host  open- 
ing the  squash  and  scooping  out  the  portions  with  a  large 
spoon. 

FRIED  SQUASH 

Take  boiled  squash  after  it  is  mashed  and  seasoned ;  chop 
an  onion  and  brown  in  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  stir  in  the 
squash  and  fry,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 

SUMMER  SQUASH 

Wash,  peel,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  remove  seeds,  put  in 
cold  water  and  boil.  Drain  off  water,  mash  and  season 
with  pepper,  salt  and  butter. 

TOMATOES 

Plunge  tomatoes  into  boiling  water  and  pour  through  a 
drainer  instantly,  peeling  immediately. 

FRIED  TOMATOES 

Peel  and  cut  in  thick  slices,  dip  in  corn  meal  or  bread 
crumbs,  season  and  fry  in  a  kettle  of  cooking  oil.  Drain 
on  clean  brown  paper. 

FRIED  GREEN  TOMATOES 

Cut  in  thick  slices  and  soak  fifteen  minutes  in  salt  water. 
Drain,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  dip  in  corn  meal  or  flour,  sea- 
son and  fry  in  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  or  in  a  kettle  of  cook- 
ing oil. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         77 

STEWED  TOMATOES 

Peel,  cut  in  pieces  and  stew  till  done.  Add  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  or  sugar,  for  seasoning. 

SAUCE  FOR  FRIED  TOMATOES 

1  tablespoonful  butter  a  little  mustard 

1  tablespoonful  hot  vinegar  a  little  salt 

1  egg  a  little  pepper 

Melt  butter  in  hot  vinegar,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolk,  then 
the  seasoning,  the  stiffly  beaten  white,  and  remove  from 
fire. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES 

6  tomatoes  1  egg 

2  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  a  little  chopped  parsley 
1  cupful  chopped  nuts  yz  teaspoonful  salt 

a  dash  of  pepper 

Wash,  wipe  dry,  and  cut  a  slice  off  the  stem  end  of  nice, 
firm  tomatoes,  remove  seeds  and  pulp,  mix  the  ingre- 
dients given,  fill  in,  cover  with  the  piece  cut  off,  and  bake 
in  a  buttered  pan  thirty  minutes. 

STUFFED  TOMATO  FILLINGS 

Equal  parts  chopped  mushrooms  and  bread  crumbs  sea- 
soned with  chopped  onion,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
olive  oil. 

Chopped  boiled  corn,  bread  crumbs,  melted  butter  and 
salt.  Boiled  rice  seasoned  with  salt. 


78         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TURNIPS 

Wash  young  turnip  greens,  and  boil  in  plenty  of  water 
for  about  one  hour.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  But- 
ter should  be  added,  unless  they  are  to  be  eaten  with 
vinegar. 

Add  a  little  sugar  to  the  water  in  which  turnips  are  to 
be  boiled. 

BOILED  TURNIPS 

Wash,  peel  off  the  thick  skin,  let  stand  one  hour  in  cold 
water,  put  in  fresh  water  containing  a  little  salt  and  boil 
till  tender. -Drain  off  the  water,  mash,  add  butter  size  of 
an  egg,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

STUFFED  TURNIPS 

After  boiling  till  tender,  hollow  out  the  center  of  each, 
mashing  the  part  taken  out,  adding  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  a  little  milk,  one  beaten  egg,  and  enough  bread 
crumbs  to  form  a  nice  dressing.  Pour  into  the  turnips, 
rub  a  bit  of  butter  over  them  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 
Small  turnips  may  be  served  individually,  or  large  ones 
dished  out  by  the  host. 

VEGETABLE  CHILI  CON-CARNE 

1  cupful  kidney  beans  ^  cupful  water 

2  dried  red  chili  peppers  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 
1  cupful  stewed  tomatoes  1  small  chopped  onion 
54  cupful  peanut  oil  yz  teaspoonful  salt 

*/£  cupful  pecan  meats 

Soak  beans  over  night,  next  morning  drain,  cover  with 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         79 

cold  water,  boil  ten  minutes,  drain,  cover  and  boil  a  sec- 
ond, and  a  third  ten  minutes,  adding  a  pinch  of  soda  to 
the  third  water,  and  cook  till  tender.  Remove  seeds  from 
the  peppers,  soak  the  pods  in  warm  water  till  soft,  then 
scrape  the  pods,  saving  the  pulp  and  throwing  away  the 
skins.  Put  the  whole  pecan  meats  in  a  frying  pan  with 
the  oil,  with  flour  smoothed  in,  and  cook  and  stir  for  five 
minutes.  Then  add  the  chili  pulp,  chopped  onion,  toma- 
toes and  salt,  and  cook  slowly  for  two  hours.  Add  water, 
if  necessary,  to  make  the  mixture  like  a  thick  sauce.  Add 
beans  just  before  removing  from  fire.  One  teaspoonful 
of  chili  powder  may  be  substituted  for  the  chili  peppers, 
if  desired.  The  tomatoes  may  be  omitted  if  desired. 

MUSHROOM  FORCEMEAT 

2-3  cupful  chopped  mush-  a  little  salt 

rooms  a  bit  of  mace 

54  cupful  butter  1  tablespoonful  olive  oil 

1  cupful  bread  crumbs  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

2  eggs  a  dash  of  nutmeg 

mushroom  gravy 

Peel  and  chop  the  mushrooms  to  make  two-thirds  of  a 
cupful.  Cook  with  the  butter,  and  cool.  To  the  well 
beaten  eggs  add  oil,  bread  crumbs  and  seasoning,  the 
mushroom  mixture,  and  mushroom  gravy  if  needed,  to 
form  into  small  balls.  Fry  about  five  minutes  and  serve 
around  a  roast. 

GRAVIES 

To  brown  flour  for  gravy,  put  it  in  a  pan  when  baking 
and  brown  it  in  the  oven.  It  may  be  kept- in  a  jar  ready 
for  use. 


80    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MILK  GRAVY 

Use  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
butter  for  each  cupful  of  milk.  Smooth  the  flour  into 
part  of  the  milk  to  make  a  paste.  Let  part  of  the  milk 
get  to  boiling  point,  dip  out  a  little  and  stir  in  with  the 
cold  paste,  then  stir  the  paste  quickly  into  the  hot  milk. 
Add  butter,  season  with  salt  and  remove  from  fire  as  soon 
as  the  mixture  thickens. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


SAUCES,  RELISHES,  ETC. 

CUCUMBER  RELISH 

Peel  and  slice  enough  cucumbers  to  fill  a  quart  fruit  jar. 
Add  a  sliced  onion,  season  with  salt  and  mix  carefully, 
fill  the  jars  and  pour  over  boiling  hot  vinegar  and  seal  at 
once.  Keep  in  a  dark  cool  place. 

GREEN  RELISH 

^  of  a  head  of  cabbage  1  green  pepper 

3  onions  y2  teaspoonful  salt 

2  stalks  of  celery  vinegar  to  suit 

Cut  out  the  core  of  the  cabbage,  chop  finely  with  the 
onions,  celery  and  pepper,  add  seasoning  and  stir  in  as 
much  vinegar  as  desired. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  the  same  of  flour  is  the 
usual  quantity  to  one  cupful  of  liquid  in  thickening  sauce. 

HORSERADISH 

Mix  grated  horseradish  with  lemon  juice.  Serve  with 
Nut  Roast  or  Baked  Beans. 

HORSERADISH  TASTY  RELISH 

Mix  fresh  grated  turnips  with  vinegar,  salt  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper.  Serve  with  Nut  Roast  and  Baked  Beans. 

81 


82    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

FRENCH  MUSTARD 

1  teaspoonful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vinegar 

1  teaspoonful  mustard  */£  teaspoonful  flour 

1  egg 

Add  sugar  to  the  beaten  egg,  stir  in  mustard  and  flour, 
and  beat  till  creamy,  then  add  vinegar,  put  over  the  fire 
and  stir  until  it  thickens,  then  remove. 

TABLE  MUSTARD 

54  cupful  mustard  1  teaspoonful  onion  juice 

vinegar  1  teaspoonful  sugar 

olive  oil  1  teaspoonful  paprika 

Add  olive  oil  to  mustard  till  creamy,  add  onion  juice, 
sugar,  paprika,  mix  well,  beat  in  vinegar  to  make  a  smooth 
paste,  bottle,  and  serve  cold  with  roasts. 

EGG  SAUCE 

yolks  3  hard  boiled  eggs  1  tablespoonful  butter 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice         1  tablespoonful  milk  or  cream 

Mash  yolks,  mix  in  butter  till  creamy,  then  lemon  and 
milk.  Serve  with  vegetables. 

MINT  SAUCE 

3  tablespoonfuls  chopped  mint      2  tablespoonfuls  powdered 
*A  cupful  vinegar  sugar 

The  leaves  stripped  from  six  stalks  of  mint  are  usually 
enough  for  three  tablespoonfuls  chopped.  Mix  mint  and 
sugar,  adding  gradually  the  vinegar.  Serve  cold  with 
roasts. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         83 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

3  tomatoes  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  pars- 

1  small  onion  ley 

J4  cupful  olive  oil  pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoonful  butter  dash  of  red  pepper 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Put  tomatoes  through  colander,  add  the  other  ingredients 
and  boil  all  together  a  few  minutes.  Serve  hot  with 
vegetables. 

WATERCRESS  SAUCE 

Chop  watercress  and  onions,  simmer  in  butter  till  tender, 
add  a  little  cream,  cook  a  few  moments,  and  serve  cold 
with  Nut  Roast. 

OLIVES 

When  a  bottle  is  opened  and  only  part  of  them  used,  pour 
about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  over  the  remaining 
olives  to  prevent  their  becoming  soft. 

Keep  olive  oil  in  the  dark  to  retain  its  flavor. 

RADISHES 

Wash,  put  in  cold  water,  wipe  dry,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place  till  time  to  serve. 


SALAD  COMBINATIONS 

Lima  beans,  olives  and  peppers,  all  cut  finely,  with  French 

Dressing. 

Chopped  celery  and  mint. 

Bananas  and  chopped  peanuts  with  Mayonnaise.     The 

mixture  may  be  placed  in  the  banana  peeling  and  prettily 

garnished. 

Stoned     cherries     filled     with     peanuts,     served     with 

Mayonnaise. 

Sliced  oranges  on  lettuce  with  French  Dressing. 

Apples  and  celery  with  Mayonnaise. 

Apples  and  nuts  with  French  Dressing. 

Chopped  cabbage  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  and 

Mayonnaise. 

A  salad  may  be  very  lightly  sprinkled  with  very  finely 

chopped  green  peppers  or  pistachio  nuts. 

Chopped  raisins,  nuts  and  celery. 

Cherries,  oranges  and  bananas  with  French  Dressing. 

Watercress  served  with  French  Dressing. 

Small  cabbages  may  be  cut  and  shaped  into  very  artistic 

salad  cups. 

Halves  of  oranges  and  grape  fruit  skins  make  beautiful 

salad  cups. 

Red  pepper  pods  cut  in  various  shapes  make  a  pretty 

salad  garnish. 

Always  heat  crackers  to  make  them  crisp  when  serving 

with  salad. 

84 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         85 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING  No.  1 

Yz  cupful  sweet  or  sour  cream      1  teaspoonful  salt 
54  cupful  vinegar  1  teaspoonful  flour 

54  cupful  melted  butter  1  teaspoonful  mustard 

1  teaspoonful  sugar 

Smooth  mustard  in  a  little  water,  add  flour,  then  salt, 
sugar  and  cream.  Add  this  mixture  to  the  heated  vinegar 
on  the  range,  and  stir  till  it  thickens,  then  remove  from 
fire,  add  butter  and  stir  till  smooth.  Serve  cold. 

If  milk  is  substituted  for  cream,  use  a  teaspoonful  more 
butter. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING  No.  2 

2  cupfuls  milk  \y2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

1  cupful  vinegar  1J4  tablespoonfuls  butter 
Yz  cupful  sugar  \Yi  teaspoonfuls  mustard 

2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

Smooth  flour  in  half  of  milk,  putting  other  half  to  heat, 
after  which  stir  butter,  flour  and  milk  together.  Add  the 
other  ingredients,  stirring  constantly  till  thickened.  May 
be  kept  in  a  cold  place  for  months. 

SOUR  CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING 

5/2  cupful  sour  cream  1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

yolk  1  hard  boiled  egg  1  teaspoonful  sugar 

pinch  of  salt  dash  of  pepper 

Cream  the  yolk,  add  sour  cream,  and  beat  in  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper. 


86         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 


FRENCH  DRESSING  No.  1 

4  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice         y*  teaspoonful  salt 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  and  serve  cold. 


FRENCH  DRESSING  No.  2 

4  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil  3/4  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

Mix  thoroughly. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

yolks  2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

\y2  cupfuls  olive  oil  1  teaspoonful  mustard 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice  1  teaspoonful  powdered  sugar 

vinegar  dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  thoroughly,  salt,  mustard,  sugar,  pepper,  then  add 
yolks,  mix  well  and  add  one-half  teaspoonful  vinegar.  To 
this  add  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  oil,  gradually,  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  stirring  constantly.  Have  ready  two 
tablespoonfuls  each,  oil  and  vinegar,  and  as  the  mixture 
thickens,  add  this  oil  and  vinegar  alternately,  stirring 
constantly. 

Always  use  a  very  cold  dish  in  mixing  Mayonnaise. 

One-third  cupful  of  cream  stiffly  beaten  is  good  added  to 
the  Mayonnaise  just  before  serving. 

A  pleasing  change  is  made  by  using  equal  parts  of 
Mayonnaise  and  Boiled  Dressing. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         87 

WHITE  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

In  recipe  for  Mayonnaise  Dressing,  substitute  cream  for 
oil,  lemon  juice  for  vinegar,  and  whites  for  yolks. 

CHEESE  SALAD  No.  1 

Press  grated  cheese  into  small  balls,  and  roll  in  chopped 
nuts. 

Cut  celery  in  very  fine  long  strips,  arrange  like  a  bird 
nest,  and  plate  two  cheese  balls  within.  Serve  with 
French  Dressing. 

Instead  of  celery,  cabbage  stalk  may  be  cut  in  very  fine 
long  strips,  sprinkled  with  celery  seed. 

CHEESE  SALAD  No.  2 

2  cupfuls  whipped  cream  %  teaspoonful  salt 

*4  cupful  grated  cheese  dash  cayenne  pepper 

1  tablespoonful  gelatin  dash  dry  mustard 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  the  least  possible  warm  water,  not 
hot  water.  When  cool,  stir  in  with  the  other  ingredients, 
mixing  very  thoroughly.  Put  in  tiny  moulds  and  set  on 
ice.  Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

CREAM  CHEESE  SALAD  No.  1 

Smooth  cream  cheese  and  chili  sauce  together,  shape  into 
small  balls,  and  serve  on  lettuce. 


88         PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CREAM  CHEESE  SALAD  No.  2 

1  cream  cheese  milk 

1  cupful  ripe  olives  1  head  lettuce 

54  cupful  nuts 

Remove  stones  from  and  cut  olives  in  small  pieces. 
Smooth  cheese  to  paste  by  adding  a  little  milk  or  cream, 
and  shape  into  small  balls.  Mix  nuts  and  olives  and  place 
among  lettuce  leaves  in  center  of  plates.  Put  cheese  balls 
around  these  centers,  and  serve  with  French  Dressing. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

Press  cottage  cheese  into  any  preferred  shape,  surround 
with  leaves  or  flowers,  and  cover  with  a  dressing  of  two- 
thirds  Mayonnaise  and  one-third  whipped  cream. 

COOKED  CABBAGE  SALAD 

y-t  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  mustard 

y^  cupful  vinegar  J^  teaspoonful  salt 

Y2  cupful  cream  2  eggs 

Y2  cupful  butter  1  small  cabbage 

To  the  beaten  eggs  add  creamed  butter  and  sugar,  vinegar, 
mustard  and  salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  cream  and  let 
come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  the  finely  chopped  cabbage,  boil 
about  two  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

Milk  may  be  substituted  for  cream  by  adding  a  little  more 
butter. 

EGG  SALAD  IN  POND  LILY  STYLE 

One  hard-boiled  egg  for  each  plate.  Remove  the  shell 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         89 

while  hot,  commence  at  the  small  end  and  cut  nearly  to 
the  other  end  to  form  six  petals.  Remove  yolks,  and  set 
whites  in  a  dish  for  the  ends  to  curl  up.  Mash  the  yolks, 
adding  a  little  dressing  and  shape  into  small  mounds  in 
the  centers  of  whites.  Serve  each  egg  on  the  stem  of  a 
large  nasturtium  leaf  with  Boiled  Salad  Dressing  No.  1, 
on  one  side. 

For  a  pretty  suggestion  of  water,  serve  on  an  inexpensive 
small  round  mirror. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


FRUIT  SALADS 

APPLE  SALAD  No.  1 

Peel  and  slice  apples,  pour  over  them  at  once  a  little  lemon 
juice,  to  prevent  discoloration.  Add  plenty  of  whole  nut 
meats  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

APPLE  SALAD  No.  2 

Prepare  apples  as  in  Apple  Salad  No.  1,  and  add  sliced 
onions.  Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

CHERRY  SALAD 

Stone  a  sufficient  number,  of  cherries,  insert  a  peanut  in 
each,  arrange  on  lettuce,  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

Oranges  may  be  used  alone,  with  nuts,  or  with  apples,  nuts 
and  pineapple.  Serve  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

NUT  SALAD 

mushrooms  stuffed  olives 

nuts  celery 

Cut  in  small  pieces,  place  on  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with 
Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

NUT  AND  APPLE  SALAD 

Combine  sliced  apples,  nuts  and  a  few  chopped  figs.  Serve 

90 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         91 

in  shells  made  of  halves  of  orange  skins,  and  put  whipped 
cream  on  top. 

POTATO  SALAD  No.  1 

Boil  potatoes  in  their  skins.  When  cooked,  pour  off  the 
water  and  let  them  remain  a  few  minutes  in  the  kettle  to 
prevent  their  becoming  soggy  or  sticky.  Chop  one-half 
an  onion  and  mix  in  with  potatoes,  with  some  chopped 
parsley.  Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

POTATO  SALAD  No.  2 

Slice  a  dish  of  cold  potatoes.  Chop  some  celery,  parsley 
and  an  onion,  mix  well,  sprinkle  with  celery  salt,  add  one- 
half  of  sliced  hard  boiled  egg  to  each  plate,  and  serve  with 
French  Dressing. 

A  little  chopped  cabbage  is  an  agreeable  addition  for  a 
change  in  Potato  Salad. 

PRUNE  SALAD 

Soak  dried  prunes  all  night  in  cold  water,  or  leave  a  few 
moments  in  hot  water.  Remove  pits  and  cut  fruit  length- 
wise. Arrange  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  sprinkle  with  chopped 
nuts,  and  serve  with  a  dressing  of  equal  parts  whipped 
cream  and  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

TOMATO  SALAD  NO.  1 

6  tomatoes  1  dessertspoonful  chopped 

i^  cream  cheese  parsley 

1  dessertspoonful  sherry  wine      1  dessertspoonful  chopped 
pinch  of  salt  pepper 

5/£  teaspoonful  chopped  onion 

Peel  tomatoes  and  remove  a  portion  of  the  center,  sprin- 


92    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

kle  with  salt  and  chill  on  ice.  Smooth  the  cheese  to  a 
paste,  adding  the  other  ingredients,  and  fill  in  the  tomato 
centers.  Put  a  bit  of  Mayonnaise  Dressing  on  top,  setting 
each  tomato  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  any  preferred  gar- 
nishing. 

Tomatoes  may  be  stuffed  with  asparagus  tips. 

TOMATO  SALAD  No.  2 

Peel  and  slice  tomatoes,  place  on  lettuce  leaves,  cover 
with  Mayonnaise  Dressing,  and  scatter  over  that  a  few 
nut  meats. 

TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD 

Harden  the  jelly  in  a  large  flat  dish,  and  cut  out  any  de- 
sired shapes  and  place  on  lettuce  leaves.  Mix  one-half 
cupful  each  stoned  chopped  olives  and  chopped  cucumber 
pickle,  with  a  little  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD  No.  1 

Keep  onions,  lettuce  and  young  mustard  in  cold  water  an 
hour  or  two,  chop  and  serve  with  French  Dressing  and 
sliced  hard  boiled  eggs. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD  No.  2 

String  beans,  peas,  lima  beans,  sliced  tomatoes,  cucum- 
bers and  onions  arranged  on  a  lettuce  leaf  and  served 
with  French  Dressing  is  a  favorite  salad. 
Any  one,  or  two  or  three  ingredients  may  be  omitted. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


FRITTERS 

CORN  FRITTERS 

\Yz  cupfuls  flour  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2-3  cupful  milk  J4  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  corn  1  egg 

To  the  well  beaten  egg,  add  milk,  part  of  the  flour  and 
salt,  mix  the  baking  powder  with  remainder  of  flour,  and 
add  alternately  corn  and  flour.  Dip  with  a  teaspoon  and 
drop  in  deep  cooking  oil  to  fry. 

About  two  and  one-half  ears  of  sweet  boiled  corn  will 
make  one  cupful  after  kernels  are  cut  off. 

This  recipe  makes  sixteen  fritters. 
Serve  with  syrup. 

APPLE  FRITTERS 

Substitute  two  medium  size  tart  apples  finely  sliced,  for 
the  corn  in  Corn  Fritters. 

BANANA  FRITTERS 

Substitute  two  medium  size  bananas  cut  in  very  small 
pieces,  and  one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  for  the  corn  in 
Corn  Fritters. 


93 


PIES 

When  a  pie  is  ready  to  bake,  pour  cold  water  over  it,  drain 
quickly  and  place  immediately  in  hot  oven. 

If  a  lower  crust  is  wet  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg 
before  filling  with  soft  mixtures,  it  will  prevent  filling 

from  soaking  in. 

Do  not  take  hot  pies  suddenly  to  a  cold  room,  as  the 

sudden  change  makes  them  "heavy."    And  do  not  leave 

them  on  a  hot  stove  after  being  baked. 

Grease  pie  plates  with  butter.     It  helps  make  a  flaky 

crust. 

A  strip  of  clean  muslin  about  two  inches  wide,  wrung 
from  cold  water  and  pinned  around  the  edge  of  juicy  pies, 
will  keep  juice  in  and  keep  edge  from  burning. 

Another  plan  is  to  insert  a  small  funnel  of  white  paper, 
small  end  down,  in  the  center  of  the  upper  crust,  for  the 
escape  of  steam. 

Sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  a  lower  crust  before  filling  in 
juicy  pies. 

A  very  good  way  to  prevent  juice  running  out,  is  to  put 
the  sugar  in  the  lower  crust  before  filling  in  the  fruit. 

See  that  under  crusts  around  outer  edge  are  loose  from 
pie  plates  before  baking. 

Under  crusts  to  be  baked  a  day  before  using,  are  made 
even  by  baking  one  crust  between  two  pie  plates  of  the 
same  size. 

94 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         95 

CINNAMON  ROLLS 

Whenever  pie  crust  dough  is  left,  cut  in  narrow  strips, 
spread  with  softened  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon,  roll  and  bake  like  a  jelly  roll. 

SHORTCAKE 

Use  directions  for  Baking  Powder  Biscuit.  Cut  open  the 
biscuits,  butter  well,  and  spread  with  whatever  fruit  is 
in  season.  Place  the  upper  half  of  the  biscuit  over  the 
under  piece  with  its  crust  down,  that  is,  on  the  fruit, 
spreading  another  layer  of  the  sugared  fruit  on  the  top, 
with  whipped  cream  above  this  top  layer,  if  desired. 

Berries,  pineapple,  oranges,  etc.,  etc.,  are  all  nice  in  short- 
cakes. 

PIE  CRUST  No.  1 

1  cupful  flour  salt 

yz  cupful  butter  54  cupful  very  cold  water 

a  pinch  of  baking  powder 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together,  add  the  salt 
and  the  softened  (not  warm)  butter,  then  the  water. 
Turn  onto  a  floured  moulding  board,  sift  a  little  flour 
over  and  turn  over  till  right  to  roll  out.  This  makes  just 
two  pie  crusts,  or  a  lower  crust  for  one  pie,  and  four  small 
biscuits. 

PIE  CRUST  No.  2 

*  cupfuls  flour  y^  cupful  very  cold  water 

2  cupfuls  butter  pinch  of  salt 

Mix  salt  in  flour  and  add  one-half  softened  (not  warm) 


96    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

butter  and  enough  very  cold  water  to  form  a  stiff  dough. 
Turn  this  on  the  floured  moulding  board,  sprinkle  with 
flour,  spread  with  some  of  the  butter,  fold  over,  roll  out, 
spread  on  more  butter,  fold  over,  roll  out,  spread  for  the 
third  time,  fold  and  roll  and  fit  on  pie  plates.  Will  make 
four  pies. 

SOUR  MILK  PIE  CRUST 

1  cupful  flour  pinch  of  salt 

54  cupful  sour  milk  ^  cupful  butter 

%  teaspoonful  soda 

Mix  the  softened  butter  with  part  of  flour,  add  milk  with 
soda  dissolved  in  it,  salt,  and  remainder  of  flour.  Turn  on 
the  floured  moulding  board  in  a  soft  dough,  roll,  and  fit 
on  the  pie  plate. 

APPLE  PIE 

Have  ready,  apples  peeled  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  or  apples 
that  have  been  cooked  like  Apple  Sauce.  Line  a  pie  plate 
with  crust. 

A  little  chopped  fresh  lemon  peel  sprinkled  over  the  fruit 
is  a  tasty  addition.  Or  powdered  lemon  peel  flavoring 
is  fine. 

A  teaspoonful  of  strong  cold  tea  added  to  the  apple  sauce 
filling  is  nice. 

FRIED  APPLE  PIE 

Roll  out  Baking  Powder  Biscuit  dough  to  about  one- 
quarter  inch  in  thickness,  and  cut  in  circles  about  five 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK    97 

inches  in  diameter.  A  tin  can  cover  that  size  is  a  good 
cutter.  Fill  the  center  of  half  this  round  piece  with  about 
one  tablespoonful  Apple  Sauce.  Moisten  the  edge  of 
dough  with  cold  water,  folding  the  empty  half  over  the 
sauce,  pressing  the  two  edges  tightly  together  making  a 
pie  shaped  like  a  half  circle.  Fry  like  doughnuts  in  hot 
cooking  oil.  Drain  them  on  clean  brown  paper.  Eaten 
hot  or  cold,  with  cheese  if  desired. 

APRICOT  PIE 

1  cupful  mashed  apricots  2  eggs 

y^  cupful  sugar  \y2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 

Soak  apricots  in  cold  water  over  night,  or  scald.  Cook 
till  tender.  To  the  beaten  yolks,  add  sugar  and  flour. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  a  crust  already  baked  and 
bake.  Add  cream  of  tartar  to  whites,  beat  stiffly,  add  two 
extra  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  spread  over  pie,  and  return 
to  oven  to  brown  slightly. 

CUSTARD  PIE 

Spread  crust  on  the  plate  the  day  before  filling,  and  keep 
in  cold  place.  This  applies  only  when  no  baking  powder 
is  used,  as  baking  powder  works  as  soon  as  it  is  dampened. 

CUSTARD  PIE  FILLING 

2  cupfuls  milk  1  tablespoonful  melted   butter 
2  eggs  pinch  of  salt 

y$  cupful  sugar  a  little  nutmeg 

Stir  in  the  well  beaten  eggs  to  sugar,  milk  and  salt,  add 


98    PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

butter,  pour  into  pie  crust,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it, 

and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Heat  the  milk  before  mixing  Custard  Pie  Filling. 

COCOANUT  PIE  FILLING 

Add  to  recipe  for  Custard  Pie  Filling  one-half  cupful 
shredded  cocoanut,  and  sprinkle  more  over  the  top  in 
place  of  nutmeg.  A  little  vanilla  flavoring  may  be  added. 

CRUSTLESS  PIE 

1  quart  milk  54  cupful  sugar 

3  eggs  54  cupful  flour 

pinch  of  salt  5/2  teaspoonful  flavoring 

To  the  well  beaten  eggs,  add  the  other  ingredients,  pour 
into  a  buttered  pie  plate  and  bake. 

DATE  PIE  FILLING 

1  Ib.  dates  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  cupful  thick  cream  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

yolks  of  3  eggs  5^  teaspoonful  cloves 

Soak  the  dates  (2  cupfuls  weighing  1  Ib.)  over  night  in 
cold  water,  and  stew  until  soft  enough  to  put  through 
colander.  Mix  well  and  add  all  the  other  ingredients.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  bake  brown  in  one  crust.  Cover  with  the 
following  meringue  and  return  to  oven  to  brown. 

MERINGUE 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  three  table- 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK         99 

spoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  (not  powdered).  Flavor 
with  a  few  drops  of  flavoring,  if  desired. 

In  making  Meringue  one  tablespoonful  very  cold  water 
may  be  substituted  for  one  egg.  Beat  the  water  in  with 
the  white  of  egg. 

LEMON  PIE  No.  1 

1  cupful  water  3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

1  cupful  sugar  a  pinch  of  salt 

yolks  2  eggs  juice    and    grated    rind    of    1 

lemon 

Make  crust  as  per  directions  given,  and  bake. 

Beat  yolks,  smooth  in  flour,  add  water,  sugar,  salt  and 
lemon,  cook  in  double  boiler  till  the  mixture  thickens, 
pour  in  baked  crust.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiffly,  add  1 
tablespoonful  sugar,  spread  over  pie  and  put  in  oven  to 
brown  slightly. 

LEMON  PIE  No.  2 

1  cupful  sugar  3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

1  cupful  milk  juice    and    grated    rind    of    1 

2  eggs  lemon 

Beat  sugar  and  yolks  together,  add  flour  and  milk  and 
continue  beating.  Beat  the  whites  stiffly  and  stir  lightly 
into  the  mixture. 

Make  crust  as  per  directions  previously  given.  This  fill- 
ing may  be  poured  into  a  baked  crust  as  per  Lemon  Pie 
No.  1,  or  filling  and  crust  baked  together. 


100       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

LEMON  PIE  No.  3 

1  cupful  sugar  4  tablespoonfuls  water 

3  eggs  juice  of  1  lemon 

Beat  yolks,  add  sugar,  water  and  lemon  and  cook  till 
thickened,  in  double  boiler.  Remove  from  stove  and  beat 
in  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pour  into  crust  and  bake. 

Add  one  crushed  banana  put  through  a  colander  to  a 
lemon  pie  filling,  if  desired. 

MINCE  PIE 

*/4  cupful  chopped  nuts  1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

1  cupful  tart  chopped  apples          1  tablespoonful  currants 
T/4  cupful  raisins  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

54  cupful  fruit  juices  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

Yz  cupful  sugar  */2  teaspoonful  salt 

a  pinch  of  cloves  and  mace 

Mix  all  together  very  thoroughly,  adding  more  sugar  or 
vinegar  to  suit  taste.  Bake  in  two  crusts.  Makes  one  pie. 

PUMPKINS  AND  PIES 

Pumpkin  may  be  grated  raw  and  used  as  when  cooked, 
making  less  work  to  prepare. 

Grating,  now-a-days,  usually  means  running  through  the 
food  chopper. 

A  pumpkin  may  be  baked  by  cutting  it  in  two,  removing 
seeds,  scooping  it  from  the  shell  with  a  mixing  spoon  and 
crushing  through  a  colander. 

In  selecting  a  pumpkin,  choose  a  glossy  one  that  is  flat  on 
both  ends. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       101 

Chopped  pecan  and  English  walnuts  sprinkled  over  a 
pumpkin  pie  just  before  putting  it  in  the  oven,  give  an 
agreeable  flavor. 

Shredded  cocoanut  sprinkled  over  a  pumpkin  pie  just  as 
it  goes  in  the  oven,  is  nice. 

PUMPKIN  PIE  No.  1 

1J4  cupfuls  pumpkin  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  milk  Y-2.  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
Yz  cupful  sugar  1  egg 

Prepare  the  pumpkin  by  washing,  cutting  in  pieces,  par- 
ing and  steaming  till  soft.  Rub  through  a  colander  or 
sieve.  To  the  required  amount  add  the  beaten  egg  and 
other  ingredients,  mixing  thoroughly.  Pour  into  a  crust 
with  a  high  rim. 

This  recipe  may  be  varied  by  using  squash  instead  of 
pumpkin,  and  the  required  amount  of  sweetening  used 
being  half  sugar  and  half  molasses. 

PUMPKIN  PIE  No.  2 

Prepare  the  filling  as  per  Pumpkin  Pie  No.  1.  Butter  the 
pie  tins,  just  cover  the  bottom  with  corn  meal.  Pour  in 
the  filling,  and  bake. 

PRUNE  PIE 

May  be  made  by  substituting  prunes  for  apricots  in 
Apricot  Pie  recipe. 

RHUBARB  PIE  No.  1 

2  pints  rhubarb  1  cupful  water 

1  pint  sugar  juice  of  1  lemon 

Peel  and  cut  rhubarb  into  half  inch  lengths,  add  other 


102       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

ingredients  and  stew  until  tender.  Bake  between  two 
crusts.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  if  desired. 

RHUBARB  PIE  No.  2 

Peel  and  cut  rhubarb  into  half  inch  lengths  and  place  on. 
lower  crust.  Mix  one  cupful  sugar  very  thoroughly  with 
one  tablespoonful  corn  starch  and  put  over  rhubarb. 
Moisten  the  edge  of  lower  crust  with  cold  water,  put  on 
the  upper  crust  and  press  edges  firmly  together.  Bake 
about  thirty  minutes. 

SQUASH  PIE 

2  cupfuls  Hubbard  squash  1  tablespoonful  butter 

3  cupfuls  milk  1  tablespoonful  brandy 
1  cupful  sugar  y2  teaspoonful  ginger 

4  eggs  y2  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
pinch  of  salt  ^2  grated  nutmeg 

Beat  eggs  and  mix  thoroughly  with  other  ingredients, 
the  butter  being  first  softened  and  squash  run  through 
colander.  Pour  in  crust  and  bake. 

If  crust  is  spread  on  the  plate  a  day  before  and  kept  in  a 
cool  place,  it  will  be  nicer  than  when  freshly  made. 
But  dough  will  not  keep  fresh  when  mixed  with  baking 
powder. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

1  cupful   mashed  sweet   pota-      1  egg 

toes  5^  teaspoonful  salt 

Yz  cupful  sugar  ^  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1  cupful  milk  y^  teaspoonful  ginger 

Mix  the  beaten  egg  with  the  other  ingredients  and  bake 
about  thirty  minutes  in  one  crust,  adding  Meringue. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


PUDDINGS 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

Cut  into  about  eight  pieces  each,  ten  or  twelve  pared  and 
cored,  rather  tart,  medium  sized  apples.  Put  into  a  kettle 
with  water  enough  to  about  half  cover  them.  Add  one 
cupful  sugar.  Have  this  apple  sauce  started  boiling  when 
the  dumplings  are  added.  For  the  dumplings — 

Y-2.  cupful  sour  milk  ^  teaspoonful  sugar 

yz  teaspoonful  soda  butter  size  yz  egg 

yz  teaspoonful  salt  flour 

Stir  the  soda  dissolved  in  little  water,  into  the  milk,  add 
salt,  sugar,  a  little  flour,  part  of  the  softened  butter,  more 
flour  and  butter,  and  flour  till  no  more  can  be  stirred  in. 
Drop  from  a  dessert  spoon  dipped  each  time  in  cold 
water,  on  top  of  the  boiling  apple  sauce.  This  makes 
eight  dumplings,  not  too  thick,  the  size  of  a  biscuit. 

THE  SAUCE 

Use  Pudding  Sauce  No.  1  and  substitute  a  little  ground 
cinnamon  for  lemon  flavoring. 

Place  a  clean  piece  of  white  cotton  cloth  over  the  kettle 
after  putting  dumplings  in,  fit  the  cover  on  closely  and 
your  dumplings  will  not  "fall." 

BAKING  POWDER  DUMPLINGS 

yz  cuplul  milk  yz  teaspoonful  sugar 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder       butter,  size  of  egg 
yz  teaspoonful  salt  flour 

Mix  part  of  the  milk  with  a  little  flour,  salt,  sugar,  add 

103 


104       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

softened  butter,  then  more  flour  with  the  baking  powdei 
sifted  in.  Mix  to  right  consistency  to  make  a  soft  dough, 
roll  lightly,  cut  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter  and  drop  over 
apple  sauce  as  in  directions  for  Apple  Dumplings. 

Peach  sauce  may  be  substituted  for  apple  sauce  in  Apple 
Dumplings,  and  Pudding  Sauce  No.  2  used. 

SOUP  DUMPLINGS 

2  cupfuls  flour  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1^4  cupfuls  boiling  water  J/£  teaspoonful  salt 

Put  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  in  the  sifter,  sift  into  a 
mixing  bowl.  Stir  rapidly  while  adding  the  water.  Turn 
on  to  moulding  board,  roll,  and  cut  like  biscuits.  Drop 
into  hot  soups  and  boil  till  done. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

2  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  54  cupful  sugar 

2  cupfuls  milk  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  molasses  54  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

2  cupfuls  graham  flour  y2  teaspoonful  lemon  flavoring 
1  cupful  chopped  raisins  1  teaspoonful  soda 

2  eggs 

Soak  crumbs  about  thirty  minutes  in  milk,  add  molasses, 
soda  dissolved  in  little  hot  water,  beaten  eggs,  flavoring, 
sugar,  salt,  spice,  and  the  flour  with  the  raisins  well 
stirred  in.  Steam  two  and  one-half  hours. 

One-fourth  cupful  chopped  candied  orange  peel  may  be 
substituted  for  lemon  flavoring. 

One-half  cupful  chopped  nut  meats  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       105 

PLAIN  CUSTARD 

2  cupfuls  milk  pinch  of  salt 

1  egg  1  tablespoonful  corn  starch 
*/4  teaspoonful  butter                       2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Smooth  the  corn  starch  on  part  of  the  milk,  adding  to  re- 
mainder of  the  milk  that  has  been  heated  to  boiling  point. 
Add  the  beaten  egg,  sugar,  salt,  butter  and  flavoring. 

Stir  constantly  till  it  thickens. 
Cooks  easily  in  a  double  boiler. 

If  boiled  custard  "separates,"  it  is  cooked  too  much.  To 
overcome  this,  beat  with  an  egg  beater  till  smooth. 

When  no  corn  starch  is  used  in  custard,  use  one  egg  in- 
stead of  the  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch. 

ORANGE  CUSTARD 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  corn  starch 
1  cupful  sugar                                   2  tablespoonfuls  powdered 
4  eggs  sugar 

sliced  sugared  oranges 

Smooth  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  milk,  adding  it  to 
the  two  cupfuls  of  milk  and  the  sugar  when  milk  has 
reached  boiling  point.  Stir  constantly,  add  the  well 
beaten  yolks  and  let  thicken.  Remove  at  once  from  the 
fire  and  when  cold,  pour  over  the  dish  of  oranges.  Beat 
very  stiffly  the  whites  with  the  powdered  sugar,  and  drop 
from  a  tablespoon  into  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water. 
Cook  about  one  minute,  turn  carefully  over  and  cook  the 
other  side.  Place  over  custard  and  serve  very  cold. 

Peaches  may  be  substituted  for  the  oranges. 


106       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CARROT  PUDDING 

1  cupful  grated  carrots  %  cupful  butter 

I  cupful  grated  raw  potatoes  y2  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  cupful  sugar  yz  teaspoonful  cloves 

iyz  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

y2  cupful  raisins  1  teaspoonful  soda 

yz  cupful  currants  yz  teaspoonful  salt 

Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  in  the  potatoes. 
Then  mix  in  all  the  other  ingredients,  pour  into  a  pudding 
mould  and  steam  three  hours.  Serve  with  sauce. 

By  doubling  the  quantity  of  fruit,  and  steaming  six 
hours,  a  fine  rich  pudding  results.  It  may  be  steamed 
three  hours  at  a  time  on  different  days. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

1  cupful  sugar  2  eggs 

*/2  cupful  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

l^a  cupfuls  flour  butter  size  of  egg 

yz  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  milk,  flavoring,  and 
lastly,  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together.  Bake  and 
serve  with  Pudding  Sauce  No.  1. 

FIG  PUDDING 

\y2  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  ^  cupful  milk 

1  cupful  chopped  figs  1  egg 

yz  cupful  chopped  nuts  54  teaspoonful  salt 

y2  cupful  sugar  r/2  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

y2  cupful  peanut  or  olive  oil  54  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

Pour  the  milk  over  the  bread  crumbs  in  a  mixing  bowl, 
add  the  beaten  egg,  then  the  sugar  with  baking  powder 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       107 

stirred  in,  figs,  nuts,  oil,  salt  and  cinnamon,  stirring  well 
together.  Steam  three  hours.  This  fills  one  ordinary 
steamed  pudding  dish. 

Use  dates  instead  of  figs,  if  preferred,  and  serve  with 
Pudding  Sauce  No.  1  or  No.  2. 

In  steaming  puddings,  breads,  etc.,  when  necessary  to 
add  water,  be  sure  you  add  boiling  water. 

FLOATING  ISLAND 

2  cupfuls  milk  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

2  eggs  1  tablespoonful  corn  starch 

Place  milk  in  double  boiler  and  when  at  boiling  point, 
add  well  beaten  yolks,  three  tablespoonsfuls  of  the  sugar, 
the  corn  starch  smoothed  into  a  little  cold  milk.  Con- 
tinue stirring  till  mixture  thickens,  remove  from  fire  and 
pour  into  a  dish.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiff,  add  the 
fourth  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  drop  like  little  islands 
over  the  top  of  the  custard,  putting  in  the  oven  a  few 
moments  to  brown. 

One-half  cupful  chopped  nuts  may  be  sprinkled  over  the 
islands  for  a  change. 

STEAMED  FRUIT  ROLL 

Roll  biscuit  dough  as  in  making  biscuits,  spread  with  jam 
or  marmalade,  roll  tightly  like  jelly  roll  and  steam  on  a 
pie  plate  for  about  thirty  minutes.  Place  in  the  oven 
about  ten  minutes.  Serve  with  sauce. 


108       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

GINGER  PUDDING 

54  lb.  ginger  snaps  2  eggs 

5/2  cupful  raisins  1  teaspoonful  butter 

milk  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

pinch  of  baking  powder 

Break  the  snaps  in  small  pieces  and  soak  in  enough  milk 
to  just  cover  them.  Mix  baking  powder  and  sugar,  and 
stir  into  beaten  eggs,  add  butter,  raisins,  mix  all  together 
and  bake.  Serve  with  sauce. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING 

54  cupful  molasses  5^2  teaspoonful  salt 

1  pint  cold  milk  y2  cupful  yellow  corn  meal 

1  quart  boiling  milk 

Stir  the  meal,  then  salt,  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  when 
nearly  cold,  add  molasses  and  cold  milk ;  bake  slowly  for 
three  hours.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  sweetened  cream. 

POTATO  PUDDING 

54  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  melted   butter 

5^  cupful  chopped  nuts  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 

^4  cupful  potatoes  4  eggs 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  add  sugar,  lemon  and  beaten 
yolks,  and  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  thoroughly.  Steam 
two  hours.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

y\  cupful  tapioca  54  cupful  corn  meal 

4  cupfuls  scalded  milk  54  cupful  molasses 

1  cupful  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

\Y2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

Soak  tapioca  two  or  three  hours  in  water  to  cover  it. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       109 

Pour  the  scalded  milk  over  corn  meal,  add  molasses, 
softened  butter  and  salt.  Cook  this  mixture  about  twenty 
minutes  in  double  boiler,  drain  water  from  tapioca,  stir 
tapioca  into  the  cooked  mixture  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish.  Then  pour  the  cold  milk  over  this,  being 
careful  not  to  stir.  Bake  about  one  and  one-half  hours 
in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


VARIOUS   SAUCES 

BRANDY  SAUCE  No.  1 

*4  cupful  butter  yz  cupful  milk 

1  cupful  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  brandy 

2  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  constantly  and  add  grad- 
ually the  brandy,  beaten  yolks,  and  milk.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  till  thickened,  Jhen  stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites. 

BRANDY  SAUCE  No.  2 

yz  cupful  butter  Ys  cupful  hot  water 

1  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  brandy 

1  egg 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  beaten  yolk,  beating  con- 
stantly while  adding  very  gradually  the  hot  water.  Then 
add  brandy  and  then  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 

BRANDY  SAUCE  No.  3 

1  cupful  sugar  whites  of  2  eggs 

J4  cupful  hot  milk  1  teaspoonful  brandy 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  then 
milk,  beating  well  at  same  time.  Flavor  and  mix  in- 
gredients in  a  dish  set  in  another  dish  of  hot,  not  boiling 
water. 

One-half  teaspoonful  of  any  preferred  flavoring  may  be 
substituted  for  brandy. 

110 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       111 

CREAM  SAUCE 

1  cupful  cream  y2  teaspoonful  flavoring 

V*  cupful  sugar  pinch  of  salt 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  cream  add  sugar,  salt  and  flavoring. 

EASY  SAUCE 

Yz  cupful  butter  3  tablespoonfuls  wine 

1  cupful  sugar  3  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks,  and  flavor. 
Then  beat  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  One-half  tea- 
spoonful  flavoring  may  be  substituted  for  wine. 

HARD  SAUCE  No.  1 

*/2  cupful  butter  3  tablespoonfuls  cream 

1  cupful  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  adding  slowly,  beating  con- 
stantly, the  cream,  till  the  mixture  is  light.  Add  wine  or 
one-half  teaspoonful  any  preferred  flavoring. 

HARD  SAUCE  No.  2 

y2  cupful  butter  white  of  1  egg 

1  cupful  sugar  5/£  cupful  whipped  cream 

1/2  teaspoonful  flavoring 

To  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar  add  the  stiffly  beaten 
white  and  cream  alternately.  Flavor. 


112       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

HOT  SAUCE 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter       1  cupful  tart  fruit  juice 
1  tablespoonful  flour  sugar  to  taste 

Smooth  butter  and  flour  and  add  juice  and  sugar.  Cook 
till  thickened. 

PUDDING  SAUCE  No.  1 

l*/2  cupfuls  water  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

5/2  cupful  sugar  5^  tablespoonful  lemon  flavor- 

butter  size  of  walnut  ing 

Measure  the  water  into  a  small  stew  pan,  smoothing  the 
flour  into  a  little  of  it  in  a  cup.  Boil  the  water  in  stew 
pan ;  when  it  starts  boiling,  dip  some  into  the  cup  with 
the  moistened  flour,  stirring  rapidly.  Pour  from  the  cup 
into  the  pan,  adding  sugar  and  butter,  stirring  constantly 
till  thick  enough;  then  remove  from  fire,  add  flavoring 
and  serve  hot. 

PUDDING  SAUCE  No.  2 

5^  cupful  sugar  3  tablespoonfuls  hot  milk 

1  egg  yz  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Beat  the  beaten  yolk  with  the  sugar,  add  milk,  beaten 
whites  and  flavor. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


ABOUT  MILK 

TO  TEST  MILK 

Put  a  bright  steel  knitting  needle  in  the  milk  and  if  on 
withdrawing  it,  the  milk  runs  off  slowly,  it  is  pure ;  if  it 
runs  quickly,  the  milk  has  been  diluted  with  water. 

Milk  absorbs  all  strong  odors,  and  should  never  be  placed 
near  them. 

A  pinch  of  soda  added  to  a  quart  of  milk  before  putting  it 
on  to  boil,  will  prevent  curdling. 

When  milk  boils  over,  sprinkle  salt  on  it  to  prevent  the 
smell. 

Usually  when  milk  or  foodstuffs  burn  on  the  kettle,  if  it 
is  instantly  set  in  a  dish  of  cold  water,  the  contents  of 
the  kettle  may  be  removed  without  tasting  burned. 

When  you  wish  to  scald  or  boil  milk,  rinse  the  dish  with 
cold  water,  pour  the  milk  in  immediately  and  it  will  not 
stick  to  the  dish. 

Sour  milk  is  best  when  it  sours  quickly.  If  it  is  too  thick, 
beat  until  light  with  an  egg  beater. 


113 


CREAM  AND  WHIPPED  CREAM 

EMERGENCY  CREAM 

yz  cupful  cold  milk  1  tablespoonful  butter 

1  cupful  hot  milk  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

whites  of  2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  corn  starch 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  add  sugar  and  corn  starch, 
beat  constantly  and  add  gradually  the  cold  milk.  Heat  a 
cupful  of  milk  to  boiling  point,  melting  the  butter  in  it, 
beating  in  the  first  mixture.  When  thickened  like  cream, 
remove  from  fire,  strain,  and  set  on  ice. 

This  will  not  "whip"  but  is  for  use  in  place  of  plain 
cream  on  fruits,  puddings,  etc. 

WHIPPED  CREAM 

Scald  cream  and  set  on  ice  till  very  cold,  before  whipping. 
When  cream  will  not  whip,  add  white  of  an  egg. 

Dissolve  a  little  gelatine  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  water  and 
whip  in  with  cream  to  prevent  whipped  cream  becoming 
watery,  after  standing  some  time. 

Always  have  cream  as  cold  as  possible,  before  whipping. 

DELICATE  CREAM 

1  grated  apple  J/3  cupful  sugar 

white  of  1  egg  %  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Add  apple  and  sugar  to  the  stiffly  beaten  white,  and  flavor. 

Use  as  a  change  from  whipped  cream  on  desserts. 

114 


DESSERTS 

APPLE  SNOW 

2  cupfuls  stewed  apples  J4  cupful  chopped  candied 

1  cupful  sugar  lemon  peel 

whites  of  3  eggs  54  cupful  chopped  raisins 

Mix  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  with  the  other  ingredients, 
and  serve  with  fresh  sponge  or  white  cake. 

BANANA  WHIP 

6  bananas  J4  cupful  sugar 

whites  of  2  eggs  %  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavor- 

ing 

Crush  bananas  through  a  colander,  beat  in  sugar,  add 
flavoring,  and  stir  in  very  lightly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 

Turn  into  six  sherbet  glasses,  place  a  bit  of  pineapple  or 
other  fruit  on  top  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream. 
Serve  very  cold. 

BANANA  CREAM  No.  1 

6  bananas  1  dessertspoonful  corn  starch 

1  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

y2  cupful  sugar  1  egg 

Slice  bananas  very  thin  and  sprinkle  with  half  the  sugar. 
Put  one-half  the  milk  in  double  boiler  and  when  at  boiling 
point,  add  beaten  yolk,  one-half  the  sugar,  and  corn  starch 
smoothed  in  remaining  one-half  of  milk,  stirring  as  it 
boils  about  a  minute.  Add  well  beaten  white,  flavor,  and 

115 


116       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

remove  from  fire.  Do  not  pour  over  fruit  till  cream  is 
cold. 

Other  fruits  may  be  substituted  for  bananas. 

BANANA  CREAM  No.  2 

6  bananas  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

3  eggs  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

milk  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Peel  the  bananas,  mash,  add  enough  milk  to  make  a 
creamy  mixture.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well 
beaten  yolks,  bananas,  and  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Flavor, 
pour  into  moulds  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes. 

CRANBERRY  WHIP 

1  cupful  cranberry  sauce  54  cupful  sugar 

white  of  1  egg  54  cupful  chopped  nuts 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  white,  beat  in  the  sugar  and  sauce 
alternately,  beating  till  very  fluffy,  then  adding  nuts. 

FANCY  CREAM 

1  cupful  milk  54  cupful  chopped  nuts 

54  cupful  chopped  marshmal-  1  dessertspoonful  gelatine 

lows  54  cupful  sugar 

5^  cupful  chopped  dates  54  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Heat  the  milk  in  double  boiler,  dissolve  gelatine  in  it. 
stir  in  marshmallows,  dates,  nuts  and  sugar,  till  mixture 
is  smooth.  Remove  from  fire,  flavor,  pour  in  mould  or 
into  small  dishes  and  set  on  ice  to  cool. 

May  be  served  with  whipped  cream,  jelly  or  any  pre- 
ferred addition. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       117 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM  No.  1 

1  cupful  cream  1  cupful  grated  nuts 

94  cupful  chopped  marshmal-        ^  teaspoonful  flavoring 
lows 

Cut  marshmallows  in  small  pieces  with  scissors.  To  the 
stiffly  whipped  cream  add  flavoring  and  pour  over  marsh- 
mallows  in  six  sherbet  glasses.  Sprinkle  nuts  over  top, 
and  serve  very  cold. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM  No.  2 

1  cupful  milk  $4  cupful  marshmallows,  cut  in 

Yz  teaspoonful  flavoring  small  pieces 

Heat  the  marshmallows  in  milk  till  melted  to  a  cream. 
Add  flavoring  and  serve  cold  in  any  preferred  style. 

MARSHMALLOW  CUPS 

Fill  sherbet  cups  with  a  layer  of  chopped  marshmallows, 
walnuts,  and  pineapple.  Place  on  top  whipped  cream 
and  a  couple  of  small  pieces  of  preserved  ginger. 

ORANGE  CREAM 

6  oranges  J4  cupful  butter 

54  cupful  sugar  1  dessertspoonful  corn   starch 

3  eggs 

Wash  and  cut  oranges  in  half,  remove  juice  with  a  lemon 
reamer,  saving  the  skins.  Smooth  corn  starch  into  the 
beaten  yolks,  add  juice  and  cook  with  butter  and  sugar, 
in  double  boiler,  till  the  mixture  thickens.  Then  stir  in 
very  lightly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  remove  at  once 


118       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

from  fire.  Cut  the  orange  skins  in  scallops,  with  scissors, 
around  the  top,  the  inside  scraped  dry  and  brushed  with 
melted  butter,  with  sugar  sprinkled  over  it.  Pour  each 
skin  half  full  of  cream  and  set  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  to  become  firm. 

PRUNE  WHIP 

1  cupful  prunes  whites  of  3  eggs 

Stew  prunes,  put  through  colander,  add  stiffly  beaten 
whites,  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

SPANISH  CREAM 

54  box  gelatine  1  cupful  sugar 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  eggs 

^2  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  enough  cold  water  to  soften  it,  add  it 
to  milk  at  boiling  point,  stirring  constantly.  Then  add 
well  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Remove  from  fire  and  add 
well  beaten  whites  and  flavoring.  Serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream  or  any  preferred  sauce. 
Cook  in  double  boiler. 


FRUITS 

BAKED  APPLES  No.  1 

2  quarts  sliced  apples  54  teaspoonful  soda 

*/a  cupful  sugar  J4  teaspoonful  cloves 

%  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

Peel  and  slice  apples  that  are  rather  tart,  and  put  the  two 
quarts  in  an  earthen  baking  dish,  stone  jar  or  bean  pot; 
mix  all  the  other  ingredients  thoroughly,  adding  a  little 
at  a  time  to  the  apples  in  the  dish,  shaking  the  dish 
frequently  to  mix  the  contents.  Bake  slowly  for  five  or 
six  hours. 

BAKED  APPLES  No.  2 

Wash  and  core  apples,  fill  the  centers  with  preserves  or 
marmalade,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake.     Serve  cold 
with  whipped  cream,  or  with  plain  cream  with  a  little 
flavoring  to  suit  the  apple  filling. 
Baked  apples  are  good  filled  with  raisins,  dates  and  figs. 

BAKED  PRUNES 

Soak  dried  prunes  in  cold  water  all  night.  Next  morning 
(when  baking  bread  is  a  good  time),  put  them  in  an 
earthen  baking  dish  or  bean  pot,  cover  with  water,  add 
sugar  to  taste,  and  let  bake  several  hours. 

APPLE  SAUCE 

Peel  and  cut  in  small  slices  as  many  tart  apples  as  re- 

119 


120       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

quired.  Just  cover  with  cold  water  and  when  it  boils, 
add  sugar  to  suit  the  taste,  and  boil  till  sufficiently  tender. 

A  few  chopped  dates  may  be  added. 

Or  some  finely  chopped  fresh  lemon  peel. 

Or  a  little  cinnamon. 

Serving  apple  sauce  with  whipped  cream  and  a  few 
chopped  walnuts  is  good. 

FRIED  APPLES 

Peel  and  slice  (not  too  thinly)  tart  apples.  Dip  in  cold 
water,  then  in  sugar,  then  place  carefully  in  a  wire  basket 
and  plunge  into  hot  olive  oil  to  fry  till  tender.  Drain  on 
brown  paper,  lay  again  in  sugar,  and  arrange  in  any  pre- 
ferred style  on  a  hot  plate. 

Nice  to  serve  with  Nut  Roast. 

CRANBERRY  MOULD 

To  one  quart  of  washed  cranberries  add  one  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  water  and  simmer  till  the  skins  burst.  Strain 
through  a  colander  and  boil  again,  adding,  as  soon  as  it 
boils,  one  cupful  sugar.  Simmer  slowly  till  thick,  and 
stir  often. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

Wash  one  quart  cranberries  and  simmer  in  one  pint  of 
water  in  a  covered  dish  till  the  skins  burst.  Then  add 
two  cupfuls  sugar  and  boil  twenty  minutes  without  the 
cover.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda,  but  do  not  stir. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       121 

STUFFED  DATES 

Cut  open  dates  lengthwise  and  remove  seed.  Fill  the 
place  of  the  seed  with  a  nut  meat  and  roll  in  powdered 
sugar. 

CREAM  DATES 

12  dates  cold  water 

whites  of  2  eggs  powdered  sugar 

*/2  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Remove  seeds  from  dates.  Measure  an  equal  amount  of 
water  to  the  whites,  beat  whites  stiffly,  and  add  to  the 
water  with  enough  sugar  to  form  a  thick  paste.  Flavor, 
and  fill  in  the  date  centers. 

STUFFED  FIGS 

Steam  figs  until  soft.  When  cool,  cut  lengthwise  and 
insert  one-half  of  a  marshmallow  and  a  walnut  meat. 

GRAPE  FRUIT 

Prepare  the  night  before,  by  cutting  in  halves,  loosening 
the  juice  by  jabbing  with  a  fork.  Remove  seeds,  put 
over  the  center  as  much  sugar  as  it  will  absorb.  Add  a 
few  maraschino  cherries,  or  a  little  wine  if  desired.  To 
be  eaten  with  an  orange  spoon  and  served  for  breakfast, 
luncheon  or  as  a  dinner  salad. 

Very  artistic  dishes  may  be  made  by  cutting  the  grape- 
fruit skins  in  pretty  designs. 


122       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

LEMONS 

Keep  lemons  in  a  vessel  filled  with  water,  changing  the 
water  twice  each  week. 

When  lemons  have  become  hard,  cover  them  with  boiling 
water  in  a  covered  dish,  allowing  them  to  remain  two 
hours. 

Lemons  may  be  kept  fresh  for  months  by  placing  them 
on  a  flat  surface  and  inverting  a  glass  jar  or  tumbler  over 
each  lemon. 

DRIED  PEACH  SAUCE 

Remove  the  skins  by  letting  peaches  stand  a  few  mo- 
ments in  hot  water.  Boil  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

The  skins  may  also  be  easily  removed  after  soaking  all 
night  in  cold  water. 

STUFFED  PRUNES 

Wash  dried  prunes,  soak  about  three  hours  in  cold  water, 
drain,  place  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  and  boil  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes,  when  pits  may  be  removed.  Then 
proceed  as  in  directions  for  Stuffed  Dates. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


DOUGHNUTS 

1  cupful  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cupful  sour  milk  J/£  teaspoonful  soda 

Yz  cupful  butter  1  teaspoonful  salt 

4  cupfuls  flour  y2  grated  nutmeg 

Cream  sugar  and  softened  butter,  add  beaten  eggs,  half 
the  flour,  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  spice,  salt,  and 
flour  enough  to  form  a  soft  dough.  Turn  on  the  mould- 
ing board  and  work  in  more  flour  if  necessary  to  have 
mixture  roll  out  one-half  inch  in  thickness.  Take  one- 
half  the  entire  mixture  to  roll  at  a  time,  cut  with  a  dough- 
nut cutter  and  fry  in  hot  cooking  oil.  This  makes  fifty 
doughnuts. 

A  tablespoonful  of  molasses  added  to  this  recipe  is  good. 

BAKING  POWDER  DOUGHNUTS 

1  cupful  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cupful  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

5^2  cupful  butter  1  teaspoonful  salt 

4  cupfuls  flour  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Cream  sugar  and  softened  butter,  add  beaten  eggs,  half 
the  flour,  flavoring,  salt  and  more  flour  with  baking 
powder  sifted  in.  Stir  in  all  the  flour  possible,  turn  on  a 
moulding  board,  working  in  only  enough  flour  to  make 
the  mixture  roll  into  a  soft  one-half  inch  dough.  Then 
proceed  as  in  Doughnuts. 


123 


AS  TO  BAKING  CAKES 

Slamming  the  oven  door  will  often  cause  a  cake  to  be- 
come heavy. 

A  little  flour  sprinkled  over  buttered  paper  in  cake  tins 
prevents  cakes  sticking. 

When  creaming  butter  and  sugar  for  cake,  if  the  butter 
is  pressed  through  a  perforated  potato  masher,  it  is  done 
very  easily  and  satisfactorily. 

Stale  cake  may  be  freshened  by  immersing  quickly  in 
cold  milk  and  placing  immediately  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
moments. 

A  wooden  toothpick  is  good  for  testing  cakes  in  the  oven. 
If  the  wood  comes  out  perfectly  dry,  the  cake  is  done. 

Raisins  should  be  washed  a  day  before  using,  placed  in  a 
wire  basket  and  plunged  quickly  in  a  dish  of  boiling 
water.  Spread  on  a  platter  or  towel  and  dry. 

Flavoring  can  be  sprinkled  over  the  cake  dough  after  it 
is  in  the  pan,  in  case  of  the  flavoring  being  forgotten  till 
then. 

Stirring  in  lightly  is  usually  the  same  as  "folding"  in. 
If  a  pan  of  water  is  placed  in  the  oven  your  cake  will 
never  burn. 

A  piece  of  paper  placed  across  the  top  of  a  pan  of  cake 
when  first  set  in  the  oven,  will  prevent  it  from  rising 
unevenly. 

To  remove  a  cake  inclined  to  stick  to  the  pan  after  baking, 

124 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       125 

set  the  tin  immediately  on  a  thick  cloth  wrung  from  hot 
water  and  after  five  minutes,  the  cake  can  be  turned  out 
without  breaking. 

Chopped  nut  meats  may  be  added  to  almost  any  cake, 
for  a  change. 

Pour  one-half  the  batter  to  fruit  cake  into  the  pan  be- 
fore adding  the  fruit,  stirring  fruit  into  the  batter  left 
in  the  mixing  bowl,  then  pouring  the  mixture  over  that 
already  in  the  pan,  and  fruit  will  not  all  sink  to  the 
bottom. 

A  cake  without  butter  must  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven. 
Fruit  cakes  and  most  dark  cakes  should  bake  slowly. 

If  sour  milk  is  used  in  baking,  use  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  soda  to  each  cupful.  If  sweet  milk  is  used,  baking 
powder  is  the  usual  accompaniment,  and  should  be  one 
and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  to  each  cupful 
of  flour. 

ORNAMENTING  CAKES 

Crystallized  mint  leaves  and  violets  and  candied  fruits 
can  be  formed  into  most  artistic  decorations  for  cakes. 
To  fasten  candles  on  cakes,  push  a  hot  hat  pin  or  knitting 
needle  in  the  bottom  of  candle,  remove  and  put  a  wooden 
toothpick  in  while  wax  is  soft.  After  the  wax  hardens 
around  the  pick  the  candle  may  be  easily  placed  in  posi- 
tion on  the  cake. 


CAKES  OF  MANY  KINDS 

ANGEL  CAKE 

1  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 
*/4  cupful  flour  1  teaspoonful  almond  flavor- 

whites  of  8  eggs  ing 

pinch  of  salt 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  cream  of  tartar,  then  the  sugar,  beat- 
ing constantly.  Sift  the  flour  three  times,  add  salt  and 
stir  in  as  lightly  as  possible  to  the  mixture,  add  flavor- 
ing and  bake  in  unbuttered  angel  food  tin  from  forty  five 
to  sixty  minutes.  When  the  top  begins  to  brown,  place 
over  it  a  buttered  paper. 

IMITATION  ANGEL  CAKE 

1  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  almond  flavor- 

1J4  cupfuls  flour  ing 

Yz  cupful  milk  \y2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

whites  of  2  eggs  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  then  the  twice 
sifted  flour  with  the  baking  powder  sifted  in,  flavoring, 
and  lastly  stir  the  well  beaten  whites  very  lightly  into 
the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  buttered  angel  food  tin. 

APPLE  CAKE 

1  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  chopped  raisins 

Yz  cupful  butter  1  tablespoonful  boiling  water 

1  cupful  unsweetened  apple  1  teaspoonful  soda 

sauce  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1^4  cupfuls  flour  Yz  teaspoonful  cloves 

Yz  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  apples,  soda  dissolved  in 

126 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       127 

the  boiling  water,  salt,  spices,  and  raisins  well  stirred  in 
the  flour.  Bake  in  well  buttered  pan  about  forty  five 
minutes. 

COFFEE  CAKE 

1  cupful  butter  2  eggs 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon 

1  cupful  strong  cold  coffee  1  teaspoonful  cloves 

i/i  cupful  molasses  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1  cupful  chopped  raisins  3  cupfuls  flour 

Stir  together  the  softened  butter  and  sugar,  add  molasses, 
coffee,  eggs,  and  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Stir 
spices  into  sifted  flour  with  raisins  or  any  desired  fruit, 
stirring  all  together  and  baking  from  forty  five  minutes 
to  one  hour,  according  to  depth  of  pan. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  1  tablespoonful  butter 

1  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1%  cupfuls  flour  %  cupful  melted  chocolate 

2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  half  the  milk,  and  the  soda 
dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  hot  water.  Melt  the 
chocolate  in  small  tin  or  granite  cup  or  saucer  over  the 
fire,  and  stir  into  the  mixture  alternately  with  the  flour, 
beaten  yolks  and  flavoring.  This  makes  two  layers. 
Any  preferred  filling  and  icing  may  be  used. 


128       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CREAM  PUFFS 

yz  cupful  butter  1  cupful  flour 

1  cupful  hot  water  3  eggs 

pinch  of  salt 

Pour  the  water  in  a  stew  pan,  add  the  butter  and  boil 
till  melted.  Stir  in  flour,  when  well  cooked  in,  remove 
from  fire  and  cool.  When  cold,  stir  in  one  at  a  time  the 
unbeaten  eggs.  Drop  from  a  dessert  spoon  on  buttered 
tins  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes.  For  filling  use — 

Yi  cupful  milk  1  egg 

yz  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  corn  starch 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Bring  milk  and  sugar  to  a  boil,  add  cornstarch  previously 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  then  stir  in  the  well  beaten 
egg,  flavor  and  when  cool,  fill  into  the  split  puffs. 

DAINTY  CAKE 

1  cupful  sugar  whites  5  eggs 

y$  cupful  cocoa  ^z  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

y2  cupful  flour  J/£  teaspoonful  flavoring 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  eggs,  add  cream  of  tartar,  sugar  and 
cocoa,  beating  constantly.  Then  add  vanilla  and  stir  in 
the  flour  very  lightly.  Makes  one  large  or  three  layer 
cakes. 

DROP  CAKES  No.  1 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  butter 
1  cupful  molasses                             2  eggs 

1  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  soda 

2  cupfuls  chopped  fruit  1  teaspoonful  salt 

6  cupfuls  flour  1  teaspoonful   each,   cinnamon 

and  cloves 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  molasses,  milk,  part 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       129 

of  flour,  soda  dissolved  in  little  water,  salt  and  spices, 
and  fruit  stirred  first  in  the  remainder  of  the  flour.  Drop 
from  a  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins. 

DROP  CAKES  No.  2 

2  cupfuls  sugar  flour 

1  cupful  butter  4  eggs 

1  cupful  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  beaten  yolks  and 
sifted  flour  with  baking  powder  sifted  in,  to  make  rather 
a  stiff  batter.  Then  add  flavoring  and  the  well  beaten 
whites.  Bake  in  buttered  gem  pans. 

DROP  NUT  CAKES 

1  cupful  sugar  1  egg 

1  cupful  chopped  nuts  l/2  teaspoonful  lemon  flavoring 
y$  cupful  flour  pinch  of  salt 

To  the  well  beaten  egg,  beat  in  the  sugar  and  stir  in  the 
other  ingredients.  Shape  into  eighteen  cakes  about  the 
size  of  an  English  walnut,  put  about  two  inches  apart  in 
a  buttered  tin  and  bake.  Serve  with  lemonade,  tea,  or  in 
any  preferred  way. 

DRIED  APPLE  FRUIT  CAKE 

3  cupfuls  dried  apples  (soaked      flour 

over  night  in  cold  water)        1  cupful  sweet  milk 

2  cupfuls  molasses  94  cuPful  butter 

2  eggs  V/2  teaspoonfuls  soda 

1  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  each  cinnamon, 

nutmeg,  cloves 

Chop  the  dried  apples  slightly  and  simmer  for  two  hours 


130       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

with  the  molasses ;  add  sugar,  milk,  spices,  butter,  eggs, 
soda  dissolved  in  little  water,  and  flour  enough  for  a  stiff 
batter.  Bake  in  steady  oven. 

FRUIT  CAKE  No.  1 

2  cupfuls  brown  sugar  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1  cupful  sour  cream  or  milk  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  cupful  chopped  nuts  1  teaspoonful  cloves 

1  cupful  chopped  raisins  54  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

flour  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3  eggs  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

Mix  beaten  eggs  and  sugar,  add  milk  to  which  soda  dis- 
solved in  little  water  has  been  added,  nuts,  salt,  spices^ 
flour  in  which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  and  pour 
one-half  this  mixture  into  buttered  pan,  stir  fruit  into  the 
other  half  and  pour  over  first  half  in  pan. 

FRUIT  CAKE  No.  2 

54  lb.  chopped  English  walnuts  1  cupful  sugar 

54  lb.  chopped  pecans  6  eggs 

54  lb.  chopped  almonds  2  cupfuls  flour 

54  lb.  chopped  citron  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1  lb.  currants  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  lb.  raisins  1  teaspoonful  allspice 

1  cupful  warm  molasses  1  teaspoonful  cloves 

54  cupful  wine  (or  fruit  juice)  54  teaspoonful  soda 

1  cupful  butter  \Yz  tablespoonfuls  orange  juice 
154  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks,  molasses  con- 
taining soda  dissolved  in  little  water,  flour,  spices,  nuts 
and  wine.  Dip  the  fruits  in  flour,  pour  half  the  cake 
mixture  in  the  buttered  tin,  stir  the  floured  fruits  into  the 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       131 

other  half  of  batter  and  pour  over  batter  in  tin.  Steam 
one  and  one-half  hours  and  bake  twenty  minutes,  or  bake 
slowly  about  two  hours. 

When  cold,  wrap  in  paraffin  paper,  or  keep  in  a  box  with 
a  fresh  apple. 

PRUNE  FRUIT  CAKE 

\y2  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  soda 

2  cupfuls  mashed  prunes  2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon 

2  cupfuls  flour  1  teaspoonful  cloves 

%  cupful  butter  2  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs,  prunes,  spices, 
soda  dissolved  in  water,  flour,  and  bake  in  buttered  pan, 
or  make  into  layers. 

GINGERBREAD  No.  1 

Yz  cupful  butter  1  egg 

94  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

Y2  cupful  molasses  ^2  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

YZ  cupful  sour  milk  1  teaspoonful  soda 

2  cupfuls  flour  pinch  of  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  molasses,  milk,  soda  dis- 
solved in  little  water,  beaten  egg,  flour  and  spices.  Bake 
in  buttered  pan. 

GINGERBREAD  No.  2 

y2  cupful  sugar  1%  cupfuls  flour 

y2  cupful  molasses  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

yz  cupful  sour  milk  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

54  cupful  butter  y2  teaspoonful  salt 

1  teaspoonful  soda 

Mix  as  for  Gingerbread  No.  1  without  the  egg. 


1  cupful  sugar  yolks  of  6  eggs 

^2  cupful  butter  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  cupfuls  flour  1  teaspoonful  orange  flavoring 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  yolks,  the  flour 
with  baking  powder  sifted  in,  and  flavoring.  Bake  in 
buttered  tin  in  medium  oven. 

GRANDMA'S  BREAD  CAKE 

2  cupfuls  bread  sponge  Y*  cupful  chopped  fruit 

1  cupful  sugar  J4  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

2/3  cupful  butter  J^  teaspoonful  clove 

1  cupful  warm  milk  flour 

In  the  morning,  after  bread  sponge  from  the  night  before 
has  had  a  very  little  flour  worked  in  and  allowed  to  rise, 
take  two  cupfuls  of  this,  stir  in  all  the  ingredients  but 
the  flour,  adding  just  enough  of  that  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  When  this  'has  risen  to  double  its  size,  mould 
softly  into  loaves  and  bake  in  well  buttered  tins. 

HERMITS 

\Y2  cupfuls  brown  sugar  1  tablespoonful  hot  water 

\Yz  cupfuls  chopped  raisins  1  teaspoonful  cloves 

2y2  cupfuls  flour  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

3  eggs  y2  teaspoonful  soda 

1  teaspoonful  baking   powder 

To  the  well  beaten  eggs  add  sugar,  raisins,  spices,  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  baking  powder  sifted  in  with 
flour.  Drop  from  a  dessert  spoon  on  a  buttered  tin  and 
bake. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       133 

MARGUERITES 

1  cupful  chopped  nuts  thin  crackers 

sugar  white  of  1  egg 

1  teaspoonful  flavoring 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  white,  add  sugar  to  spread,  nuts  and 
flavoring.  Spread  on  the  crackers  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Do  not  let  stand  long  before  serving. 

PLAIN  CAKE  No.  1 

94  cupful  sugar  1  egg 

y-i  cupful  milk  butter  size  of  egg 

1  cupful  flour  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg,  milk,  flour  in 
which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  flavor,  and  bake  in 
buttered  pan. 

PLAIN  CAKE  No.  2 

y^  cupful  sugar  1  egg 

%  cupful  sour  milk  butter  size  of  egg 

1  cupful  flour  %  teaspoonful  soda 

1  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg,  milk,  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water,  flavoring  and  flour.  Bake  in 
buttered  pan. 

SPONGE  CAKE  No.  1 

6  eggs  2  cupfuls  flour 

2  cupfuls  sugar  juice  of  1  lemon 

1  cupful  boiling  water  1J^  teaspoonfuls  baking 

powder 

To  the  well  beaten  eggs,  beat  in  the  sugar,  add  lemon 


juice,  boiling  water  and  flour  with  baking  powder  sifted 
in.    Bake  in  buttered  pan.    Angel  food  tin  is  good. 

SPONGE  CAKE  No.  2 

3  eggs  y2  cupful  cold  water 

iy2  cupfuls  sugar  \y2  teaspoonfuls  baking   pow- 

134  cupfuls  flour  der 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

To  the  well  beaten  eggs,  beat  in  the  sugar,  add  water, 
flavoring,  and  the  flour  in  which  baking  powder  has  been 
sifted.    Bake  in  buttered  pan.     If  this  cake  is  to  be  iced, 
the  white  of  one  egg  may  be  saved  for  use  in  icing. 
Never  stir  sponge  cake  batter  any  more  than  is  necessary. 

WHITE  CAKE  No.  1 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1%  cupfuls  flour 

y2  cupful  butter  whites  of  4  eggs 

y2  cupful  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  teaspoonful  rose  flavoring 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  flavoring  and  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites,  then  flour,  with  the  baking  powder 
sifted  in.  Makes  a  good  layer  cake. 

WHITE  CAKE  No.  2 

y2  cupful  butter  2  cupfuls  flour 

1%  cupfuls  sugar  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

y2  cupful  milk  whites  of  5  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  almond  flavoring 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  stir  in  first  milk,  then  flour 
till  flour  is  nearly  used,  adding  the  last  of  it  with  baking 
powder  sifted  in,  flavor,  and  stir  in  very  lightly  the 
whites,  and  bake  in  buttered  angel  food  pan.  This  makes 
one  medium  size  cake  or  two  layers. 


CAKE  FILLINGS 

1  cupful  of  chopped  nuts,  fruit  or  caraway  seed  may  be 

added  to  any  plain  cake  batter,  changing  it  to  a  choice 

cake. 

A  good  filling  is  made  by  adding  chopped  nuts  or  fruit 

to  ordinary  icing. 

A  little  flour  added  to  sugar  in  thickening  icing  is  good. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING  No.  1 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  2J^  squares  Baker's  chocolate 

yolk  of  1  egg  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

3  tablespoonfuls  milk 

Stir  sugar  into  melted  chocolate,  add  milk,  the  beaten 
yolk,  flavor,  and  cook  till  thickened  in  a  double  boiler. 
When  cool,  put  between  layers. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING  No.  2 

1  cupful  powdered  sugar  1  square  Baker's  chocolate 

whites  of  2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  eggs,  beat  in  the  sugar,  add  melted 
chocolate  and  vanilla,  mix  thoroughly  and  put  between 
layers. 

FRUIT  FILLING 

*4  cupful  chopped  raisins  J^  cupful  chopped  nuts 

54  cupful  chopped  citron  ^  cupful  powdered  sugar 

Yi  cupful  chopped  dates  whites  of  3  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  add  sugar,  then  the  remain- 
ing ingredients,  and  spread  before  cold. 

135 


136       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

LEMON  FILLING 

1  cupful  sugar  juice  of  1  lemon 

1  egg 

Add  sugar  and  juice  to  the  well  beaten  egg,  and  cook  till 
thickened. 

LEMON  HONEY  FILLING 

1  cupful  sugar  yolks  of  6  eggs 
54  cupful  butter  3  lemons 

Wash,  press  out  juice  and  grate  rind  of  lemons,  put  in 
double  boiler,  add  butter  and  sugar.  When  near  boiling 
point  add  well  beaten  yolks,  stirring  constantly.  Keep 
stirring  till  mixture  becomes  very  thick. 

This  is  good  in  sandwiches  as  well  as  cake, 

MARSHMALLOW  FILLING  No.  1 

yz  lb.  chopped  marshmallows        ^  cupful  water 

2  cupfuls  sugar  whites  of  2   eggs 

Y2  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Boil  water  and  sugar  till  it  hairs,  remove  from  fire  and 
stir  in  stiffly  beaten  whites,  then  the  marshmallows  and 
flavoring,  stirring  briskly  till  cold.  This  quantity  is  suffi- 
cient filling  for  a  three  layer  cake. 

Chopped  nuts  may  be  spread  over  layers  before  adding 
filling,  if  desired. 

MARSHMALLOW  FILLING  No.  2 

1  lb.  marshmallows  */3  cupful  boiling  water 

1  cupful  sugar  Yz  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Boil  sugar  and  water  till  it  hairs,  remove  from  fire,  slowly 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       137 

stir  in  the  melted  marshmallows,  add  flavoring  and  stir 
till  right  consistency  to  spread. 

NUT  FILLING 

2  cupfuls  chopped  nuts  */£  cupful  sugar 

1  tablespoonful  melted  choco-      2  tablespoonfuls  cream 

late  Yt  teaspoonful  butter 

Mix  all  together  thoroughly  and  put  between  layers. 

NUT  AND  FRUIT  FILLING 

2  cupfuls  chopped  nuts  1  cupful  citron 

2  cupfuls  chopped  raisins  1^  cupfuls  chopped  figs 

little  wine 

Put  nuts  and  fruit  through  food  chopper,  and  rub  all 
together  with  enough  wine  to  form  a  paste.  Put  be- 
tween layers. 

ORANGE  FILLING 

3  tablespoonfuls  orange  juice        1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoonful  butter  confectioner's  sugar 

Heat  juices  and  butter  just  enough  to  melt  the  butter, 
adding  sufficient  sugar  for  a  thick  filling. 

TART  FILLING 

2  grated  apples  juice  of  1  lemon 
2  eggs  1  cupful  sugar 

Let  apples  and  beaten  eggs  come  to  a  boil,  beat  in  sugar 
and  spread  when  cool. 


ABOUT  ICINGS 


COLORED  ICINGS 

Use  cranberry  juice  or  pieces  of  beets  for  pink. 
Grape  juice  makes  violet. 
Spinach  makes  green. 
Yolks  of  eggs  produce  yellow. 

Dip  a  knife  frequently  in  cold  water  when  spreading. 
When  icing  runs  down  the  sides  of  cake,  a  strip  of  par- 
affin paper  pinned  around,  standing  above  the  top,  will 
prevent  it.     The  paper  may  be  removed  when  icing  is 
cold. 

BERRY  ICING 

About  8  crushed  strawberries  beaten  with  confectioner's 
sugar  till  right  to  spread. 

Any  juicy  berries  may  be  substituted. 

BOILED  ICING 

1  cupful  granulated  sugar  pinch  of  cream  tartar 

Yi  cupful  water  white  of  1  egg 

flavoring 

Boil  water  and  sugar  about  three  minutes ;  beat  the  white 
of  the  egg  slightly,  and  add  half  of  the  slightly  boiled 
water  and  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  cream  tartar,  beating 
constantly.  As  soon  as  the  remainder  of  the  syrup  will 
hair,  pour  it  into  the  mixture  and  beat  until  cold.  Flavor. 

138 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       139 

CHOCOLATE  ICING  No.  1 

\Yz  cupfuls  sugar  54  cupful  melted  chocolate 

3/4  cupful  cream  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Mix  sugar,  cream  and  chocolate,  boiling  four  or  five 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  flavoring  and  beat  till 
mixture  thickens.  Spread  quickly  over  cake,  frequently 
dipping  knife  in  hot  water. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING  No.  2 

Use  any  preferred  rule  for  icing.  Melt  one-half  cupful 
Baker's  chocolate  by  placing  in  dish  over  teakettle  of 
boiling  water,  setting  in  a  small  dish  inside  of  a  larger 
one  containing  water  boiling,  or  placing  a  small  tin  or 
granite  dish  over  a  gas  burner  turned  low,  or  on  a  stove 
where  it's  not  too  hot.  Spread  this  melted  chocolate  over 
the  icing,  making  an  effect  like  chocolate  creams. 

A  sprinkling  of  cinnamon  in  the  chocolate  is  a  pleasant 
change  in  flavor. 

COCOANUT  ICING 

Use  any  preferred  rule  for  icing.  Stir  in  the  shredded 
cocoanut,  or  press  it  carefully  over  icing  before  it  hardens 
on  the  cake. 

FRUIT  ICING 

Add  one-half  cupful  chopped  figs,  raisins,  or  any  desired 
fruit  to  any  preferred  icing. 


140       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MAPLE  ICING  No.  1 
2  cupfuls  ground  maple  sugar       1  cupful  thin  cream 

Put  the  maple  sugar  through  the  food  chopper,  boil  with 
the  cream  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and 
beat  with  an  egg  beater  till  thick  enough  to  spread. 

Walnut  meats  placed  on  an  icing  while  soft,  is  a  nice 
trimming. 

MAPLE  ICING  No.  2 

1  cupful  maple  syrup  confectioner's  sugar 

yz  cupful  chopped  nuts 

Stir  the  sugar  into  the  syrup  till  thick  enough  to  spread ; 
add  the  nuts  or  fruit. 

MARSHMALLOW  ICING 

154  cupfuls  sugar  54  Ib.  marshmallows 

54  cupful  butter  54  cupful  water 

Melt  the  marshmallows  in  a  dish  set  in  a  larger  dish  of 
water  boiling.  Boil  sugar,  butter  and  water  till  it  hairs, 
add  marshmallows  and  beat,  till  ready  to  spread. 

NUT  ICING 

Add  one-half  cupful  chopped  nuts  to  any  preferred  icing. 

ORANGE  ICING 

1  egg  */t  teaspoonful  orange  flavor- 

1  teaspoonful  cold  water  ing 

powdered  sugar 

To  the  well  beaten  egg  add  water  and  flavoring,  beating 
and  stirring  in  enough  sugar  to  spread. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       141 

UNCOOKED  ICING 

*/4  cupful  cream  2  tablespoonfuls  butter  melted 

confectioner's  sugar  1  teaspoonful  flavoring 

While  beating  cream,  add  gradually  enough  sugar  for 
the  mixture  to  spread.    Then  add  butter  and  flavoring. 

YELLOW  ICING 

yolk  of  1  egg  1  tablespoonful  water 

juice  of  y2  lemon  confectioner's  sugar 

Add  the  lemon  juice  to  the  beaten  yolk,  water  and  enough 
sugar  to  make  it  quite  stiff. 


COOKIES 

If  your  cookies  are  inclined  to  burn,  bake  them  on  the 
pans  turned  bottom  side  up. 

Place  cookies  in  pans  with  a  pancake  turner. 

Cookies  take  but  a  few  minutes  to  bake. 

Place  cookies  while  warm  in  a  cloth  in  a  covered  jar. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

Use  Cocoanut  Cooky  recipe,  with  the  exception  of  chang- 
ing cup  of  cocoanut  to  one  cupful  of  melted  chocolate. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES 

y^  cupful  sugar  "%  teaspoonful  salt 

*/2  cupful  butter  .    yz  teaspoonful  lemon  flavoring 

54  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

1  cupful  grated  cocoanut  1  cupful  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  cocoanut,  salt,  flavor- 
ing, and  baking  powder  stirred  in  with  the  sifted  flour. 
Roll  thin,  cut  out  and  bake. 

FRUIT  COOKIES 

Use  recipe  for  Cocoanut  Cookies,  substituting  chopped 
fruit  for  cocoanut. 

Place  them  when  cold  in  a  jar  with  paraffin  paper  be- 
tween each  layer. 

142 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       143 

GINGER  COOKIES 

2  cupfuls  molasses  2  eggs 

1  cupful  butter  1  tablespoonful  ginger 

1  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  soda 

^2  cupful  sour  milk  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs,  milk,  soda  dis- 
solved in  little  water,  ginger,  and  flour  enough  for  dough 
to  roll  thin.  Cut  and  bake  in  buttered  pans  in  quick 
oven. 

GINGER  SNAPS 

1  cupful  molasses  1  tablespoonful  ginger 

Y-L  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  soda 

y2  cupful  butter  flour 

Heat  the  molasses  and  stir  in  the  sugar,  add  softened 
butter,  soda  dissolved  in  little  water,  ginger,  and  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  a  thin  dough.  Roll,  cut,  and  bake  in 
buttered  pans  in  quick  oven,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

1  cupful  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cupful  butter  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1  cupful  sour  milk  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

3  cupfuls  flour  1  teaspoonful  soda 
3  cupfuls  oatmeal  pinch  of  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs,  milk,  soda  dis- 
solved in  little  water,  salt,  spices,  flour  and  oatmeal  alter- 
nately. Roll  and  cut,  or  drop  from  a  dessert  spoon  on 
buttered  tins  to  bake. 


144       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

PEANUT  COOKIES 

1  tablespoonful  butter  1  egg 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  y2  teaspoonful  baking  powder 
2  tablespoonful  milk  pinch  of  salt 

y2  cupful  flour  2  cupfuls  chopped  peanuts 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg,  milk,  salt,  pea- 
nuts, and  baking  powder  sifted  in  with  the  flour.  Roll 
thick  and  cut,  or  drop  on  buttered  tins  from  a  teaspoon. 

Any  preferred  nuts  may  be  used. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

2  cupfuls  sugar  caraway  seeds  or  flavoring 

\Yz  cupfuls  sour  milk  \y2  tablespoonfuls  boiling  wa- 

1  cupful  butter  ter 

2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  baking   powder 
flour  1  teaspoonful  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs,  milk,  soda  dis- 
solved in  the  boiling  water,  any  desired  flavoring,  and 
baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  dough 
roll  out  soft  and  thin. 
Cut  in  any  desired  shape. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


CHILLED  DISHES 

CURRANT  CREAM 

1  cupful  water  whites  of  2  eggs 

y2  cupful  sugar  \y2  tablespoonfuls  gelatine 

2  cupfuls  currants  juice  of  1  orange 

juice  of  1  lemon 

Boil  water  and  sugar,  add  gelatine  dissolved  in  just 
enough  hot  water  to  cover  it,  orange  and  lemon  juice, 
and  currants  that  have  been  crushed  through  a  strainer. 
Place  on  ice  to  chill,  then  mix  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites, 
place  the  mixture  in  a  tightly  covered  mould  and  pack  in 
ice  to  chill. 


2  lemons 

5  eggs 

To  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beat  in  the  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons,  sugar,  let  come  to  the 
boiling  point  and  stir  in  lightly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 
When  well  stirred  in,  place  in  a  mould  and  pack  in  or  set 
on  ice  to  cool. 

NUT  CREAM 

2  cupfuls  cream  1  cupful  chopped  dates 

y2  cupful  sugar  yz  cupful  chopped  figs 

y2  cupful  chopped  nuts  white  of  1  egg 

y2  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

To  the  stiffly  whipped  cream,  stir  in  all  the  other  ingredi- 

145 


146       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

ents,  put  in  a  mould,  cover  tightly  and  pack  in  a  bucket 
with  finely  chopped  ice  and  salt  for  several  hours. 


FREEZING  ICE  CREAM 

Put  ice  and  salt  in  the  freezer  and  press  pieces  of  news- 
paper all  around  the  top,  covering  all  with  the  ice  sack. 
Turn  the  crank  a  few  times,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes, 
then  turn  for  about  five  minutes.  After  the  cream  is 
frozen,  pack  in  pieces  of  newspaper  very  closely,  instead 
of  using  more  ice. 

MAPLE  ICE  CREAM 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  cupfuls  cream 

1  cupful  maple  syrup  3  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring 

Scald  the  milk  in  double  boiler  and  add  the  syrup,  then 
the  well  beaten  eggs  and  cook  till  thickened.  When  cold, 
add  the  cream  whipped.  Freeze,  and  serve  with  small 
pieces  of  preserved  ginger  scattered  over  each  dish. 


PEACH  ICE  CREAM 

10  large  peaches  1  cupful  cream 

25/2  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  pistachio  flavor- 

1  quart  milk  ing 

Mash  the  peaches  with  sugar,  add  the  other  ingredients, 
having  each  one  very  cold,  mix  well  and  put  in  freezer. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       147 

PISTACHIO 

f  cupful  sugar  green  coloring 

1  cupful  mashed  strawberries        1  cupful  milk 

2  cupfuls  whipped  cream  yz  cupful  pistachio  nuts 

1  box  gelatine 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  a  little  warm  water,  to  one-half  of  it 
add  one-half  the  sugar,  berries  and  one-half  the  cream. 
Stir  chopped  nuts  in  the  scalded  milk,  let  cool,  add  the 
remainder  of  the  gelatin,  sugar  and  cream,  tint  green  with 
coloring  purchased  at  drug  or  candy  store.  Then  put 
one  spoonful  of  first  one,  then  the  other  mixture,  into  a 
mould  and  freeze. 

PLAIN  ICE  CREAM 

1  pint  cream  1  cupful  sugar 

1  pint  milk  1  egg 

1  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Beat  in  sugar  to  thoroughly  beaten  egg,  add  the  other 
ingredients  and  any  preferred  flavoring.  Put  in  double 
boiler  and  get  hot,  but  do  not  boil.  When  very  cold, 
pour  into  freezer.  This  serves  six  people.  The  custard 
may  be  prepared  the  day  before. 

Fill  sherbet  glasses  half  full  of  vanilla  ice  cream,  add  to 
the  top  a  spoonful  of  jam  and  over  that  a  large  spoonful 
of  whipped  cream. 

Vanilla  ice  cream  is  nice  served  in  half  a  cantaloupe.  So 
is  coffee  ice  cream. 


SAUCES  FOR  ICE  CREAMS 

CREME  DE  MENTHE  SAUCE 

1  cupful  cream  mint  flavoring 

Yz  cupful  sugar  nuts 

green .  coloring 

To  the  stiffly  whipped  cream  add  sugar,  flavoring  and 
coloring  (which  may  be  purchased  at  drug  or  candy 
store).  Serve  the  ice  cream  in  sherbet  cups,  put  the  sauce 
on  top  and  sprinkle  with  a  few  finely  chopped  nuts. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

yz  cupful  milk  4  tablespoonfuls  melted  choco- 

1  cupful  sugar  late 

Mix  milk,  chocolate  and  sugar  in  double  boiler,  stirring 
till  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boiling  till  syrup  hairs.  Serve 
ice  cream  in  sherbet  glasses,  pouring  hot  syrup  over  it. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE 

Boil  for  ten  minutes  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  sugar  and 
one-half  a  cupful  of  water.  Put  a  pint  of  strawberries 
through  a  sieve.  When  syrup  is  cold,  add  the  berries 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Serve  with  vanilla  ice 
cream. 

GRAPE  SHERBET 

1  cupful  grape  juice  1/4  cupfuls  sugar 

1  cupful  milk  juice  of  1  lemon 

Allow  the  milk  to  become  very  cold  in  the  freezer  before 
adding  the  other  portions,  then  freeze. 

148 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       149 

LEMON  SHERBET 

1  quart  milk  juice  of  2  lemons 

2y2  cupfuls  sugar  juice  of  1  orange 

Strain  orange  and  lemon  juice,  add  sugar  and  melt  over 
fire.  When  melted,  set  out  to  cool.  Have  the  milk  thor- 
oughly chilled  in  the  freezer  and  when  the  juices  are 
cold,  add  to  the  milk  and  freeze  in  the  usual  way. 

ICE  SUBSTITUTE 

If  ice  is  not  obtainable,  put  in  a  box  about  three  feet 
square,  coarse  salt  to  the  depth  of  five  inches.  Keep  it 
moist  to  set  milk,  butter  and  food  in. 

To  prevent  dishes  slipping  when  placed  on  ice  in  the 
refrigerator,  first  place  a  newspaper  over  the  ice. 

TO  KEEP  BUTTER  WITHOUT  ICE 

Put  the  butter  in  a  small  pan,  and  set  this  small  pan  in  a 
larger  pan  which  contains  enough  water  to  reach  the 
top  of  the  butter  pan.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt 
in  this  water.  Place  a  flower  pot  in  the  water  and  after 
it  has  absorbed  all  it  will  hold,  invert  it  over  the  butter. 
Re-soak  the  flower  pot  occasionally. 

SERVING  PUNCH  ARTISTICALLY 

Heat  a  stove  poker  and  melt  a  small  hollow  in  the  center 
of  a  large  block  of  ice.  Keep  punch  ready  to  fill  in  this 
hollow  as  fast  as  it  is  used. 


PUNCHES 

CURRANT  PUNCH 

1  cupful  cracked  ice  1  cupful  currant  juice 

Yz  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 

10  sprays  fresh  mint 

Shake  ice  and  sugar  till  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add  mint, 
pouring  over  it  the  lemon.  Add  currant  juice  and  enough 
water  to  make  one  quart  of  this  liquid.  If  too  strong, 
add  more  water. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

\%  doz.  lemons  10  quarts  water 

1  doz.  oranges  8  cupfuls  sugar 

1  doz.  bananas  1  pint  canned  raspberry  juice 

a  few  strawberries  or  cherries 

Roll  lemons  and  oranges  to  loosen  juice,  slice,  slice 
bananas,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  ice,  and  serve  from 
a  punch  bowl. 

GRAPE  JUICE  PUNCH 

juice  of  6  lemons  2  cupfuls  sugar 

juice  of  2  oranges  2  quarts  Apollinaris  water 

1  quart  grape  juice  small  pieces  of  pineapple 

Boil  sugar  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  till  it 
resembles  syrup.  Let  it  get  perfectly  cold,  then  mix  all 
but  Apollinaris  water  in  the  punch  bowl,  adding  that 
water  just  before  serving.  Have  plenty  of  ice  in  the 
bowl. 

150 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       151 

RUSSIAN  TEA  PUNCH 

1  quart  strong  tea  2  tablespoonfuls  orange  juice 

2  cupfuls  sugar  Vz  cupful  lemon  juice 

1  quart  Apollinaris  sliced  orange,  pineapple  and 

cherries 

Have  all  ingredients  ice  cold,  mix  and  pour  over  ice  in 
punch  bowl  just  before  serving. 

TEMPERANCE  PUNCH 

5  lemons  1  quart  water 

1  cupful  sugar  1  quart  ginger  ale 

yz  doz.  sprays  of  mint 

Slice  lemons,  cover  with  sugar  and  let  stand  one  hour. 
Add  water  and  ginger  ale  in  equal  proportions  till  strong 
enough  to  suit.  Crush  part  of  the  mint  sprays  and  add 
to  the  punch  which  should  be  poured  over  a  block  of  ice 
in  the  punch  bowl. 

VIOLET  PUNCH 

1  cupful  grated  pineapple  fresh  violets 

4  cupfuls  water  2  quarts  water 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  grape  juice 
1  cupful  strong  tea                          juice  of  2  oranges 

juice  of  2  lemons 

Cook  pineapple  in  two  cupfuls  water  fifteen  minutes, 
strain  through  cheese  cloth,  add  two  more  cupfuls  water 
and  sugar,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Let  cool,  add  cold  tea, 
two  quarts  of  water  and  other  ingredients,  pour  over  ice  in 
punch  bowl  and  serve  with  two  violets  in  each  glass. 
Have  the  punch  bowl  surrounded  by  violets,  if  a  dainty 
effect  is  desired. 


152       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

WINE  PUNCH 

2  quarts  wine  3  sliced  oranges 

2  sliced  lemons  2  quarts  Apollinaris     , 

2  cupfuls  sugar 

Have  all  of  these  ice  cold,  mix  and  pour  over  ice  in  a 
punch  bowl.     Or  use  these  ingredients — 

2  quarts  wine  1  quart  champagne 

1  quart  Apollinaris 


COLD  BEVERAGES 

FOR  COLD  WATER 

Keep  a  large  bottle  of  cold  water  with  half  a  lemon  over 
the  top,  in  the  refrigerator.  By  refilling  when  necessary, 
cold  drinking  water  is  always  ready. 

In  case  of  emergency,  water  may  be  cooled  by  placing 
it  in  a  tin  vessel  covered  with  a  coarse  wet  cloth  where 
a  breeze  blowing  on  it  will  cause  it  to  cool,  by  evapora- 
tion. 

CLARET  CUP  No.  1 

1  quart  claret  rind  of  cucumber 

1  cupful  sugar  1  liqueur  glass  brandy 

1  liqueur  glass  curacoa 

Mix  all  together,  let  stand  thirty  minutes,  remove  cucum- 
ber rind  and  add  ice. 

CLARET  CUP  No.  2 

$4  cupful  seedless  raisins  2  quarts  Apollinaris 

1  quart  cold  water  1  4-in.  stick  of  cinnamon 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  lemon  juice 

1  pint  claret  l3/^  cupfuls  orange  juice 

sliced  fruits 

Simmer  the  raisins  in  the  water  thirty  minutes.  Strain, 
add  cinnamon  broken  in  small  pieces,  sugar,  and  half  the 
lemon  juice.  Boil  all  -together  for  five  minutes.  Then 
add  orange  and  remainder  of  lemon  juice,  strain  and  let 
become  ice  cold.  Put  in  the  punch  bowl  a  block  of  ice, 

153 


154       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

pour  the  claret  over  it,  then  the  mixture  and  then  just 
before  serving,  the  Apollinaris. 

Put  in  small  slices  of  fruits. 

This  is  for  a  company  of  twenty  five. 

FRUIT  COCKTAIL 

Cut  pineapples,  bananas  and  strawberries  in  small  pieces 
enough  to  fill  one  cup.  Fill  another  cup  with  small  pieces 
of  grapefruit  pulp,  mix,  and  add 

1/3  cupful  sherry  wine  yz  cupful  sugar 

J4  cupful  brandy  pinch  of  salt 

Mix  and  pour  over  the  fruit,  set  on  ice  and  when  cold, 
serve  in  cocktail  glasses. 

GINGER  AND  GRAPE  BEVERAGE 

Use  equal  parts  of  ginger  ale  and  grape  juice.  Serve  ice 
cold  in  cocktail  glasses,  with  maraschino  cherries  on  top. 

A  few  small  pieces  of  cracked  ice  may  be  in  the  glass. 

ICED  FRUIT  JUICE 

2  cupfuls  sugar  2  quarts  water 

juice  of  1  lemon  2  cupfuls  raspberry  juice 

1  small  grated  pineapple 

Mix  and  serve  with  ice  in  glasses. 

ICED  TEA 

Into  a  large  size  granite  tea-pot  put  six  teispoonfuls  of 
tea,  and  pour  on  it  three  cupfuls  of  water  that  has  just 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       155 

boiled  about  two  minutes.  Cover  and  stand  in  a  warm 
place  five  minutes.  Strain  into  any  desired  tea-pot,  ready 
to  pour  into  glasses  half  filled  with  cracked  ice.  A  crushed 
mint  leaf  may  be  placed  in  each  glass,  and  a  little  lemon 
juice  added. 

Half  a  dozen  cloves  added  to  tea  leaves  just  before  pour- 
ing boiling  water  on,  gives  a  good  flavor. 

KUMISS 

1  quart  fresh  milk  1  tablesponful  sugar 

154  cupfuls  warm  water  1/3  cake  compressed  yeast 

Dissolve  yeast  in  water,  and  sugar  in  milk,  stir  all  to- 
gether, bottle  and  cork  very  tightly.  Leave  in  a  moder- 
ately warm  place  for  six  hours,  then  put  in  a  cold  place. 
Never  fill  bottles  more  than  two-thirds  full. 


LEMONADE 

Cut  lemons  in  two,  remove  the  juice  with  a  lemon  reamer 
and  pour  into  glasses,  or  according  to  quantity  required, 
pour  into  a  pitcher.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Dissolve  the 
sugar  in  a  little  hot  water  and  let  cool  before  adding. 
One  ordinary  sized  lemon  makes  three  glasses  of  lemon- 
ade. Add  sugar  and  ice  water  or  pour  water  over 
cracked  ice  in  glasses. 

A  cupful  of  grape  or  raspberry  juice,  or  a  few  crushed 
mint  leaves  are  good  in  a  pitcher  of  lemonade. 


156       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

LEMON  SYRUP  FOR  LEMONADE 

2  quarts  water  4  cupfuls  sugar 

\Y2  cupfuls  lemon  juice 

Boil  water  and  sugar  about  ten  minutes,  add  lemon  juice, 
pour  into  fruit  jars  and  set  in  refrigerator.  Dilute  part 
of  the  syrup  with  ice  water  for  lemonade,  making  strong 
as  desired. 

OATMEAL  WATER 

Mix  one  teacupful  oatmeal  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold 
water.  Pour  over  it  one  quart  boiling  water  and  let  it  get 
cold.  A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  may  be  added.  Drink 
it  as  cold  as  desired. 

ORANGEADE 

juice  of  1  orange  1  egg 

juice  of  Yz  lemon  sugar 

Pour  the  well  beaten  egg  in  a  glass,  add  juices,  fill  the 
glass  with  water  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Ice  if  desired. 

SODA  WATER 

1  quart  sugar  juice  of  1  lemon 

3  pints  boiling  water  whites  of  3  eggs 

Yz  cupful  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  wintergreen 

2  oz.  tartaric  acid  flavoring 

Mix  acid,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  boiling  water  and  boil 
three  minutes.  Let  partially  cool,  and  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  into  which  flour  has  been  smoothed.  Add 
any  desired  flavoring,  bottle,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       157 

.Shake  well  before  using.  Fill  a  glass  two-thirds  full  of 
ice  water,  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  syrup,  add 
while  stirring  rapidly,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

CREME  de  MENTHE 

mint  syrup 

juice  of  2  lemons  1  pint  brandy 

Wash  about  one  dozen  sprays  of  fresh  mint,  place  in  a 
fruit  jar  and  pour  over  them  the  strained  juice  of  the 
lemons,  then  the  brandy.  Cover  closely,  let  stand  from 
one  to  two  weeks,  according  to  the  desired  strength, 
strain,  sweeten  to  taste  with  syrup,  cork  tightly,  and 
keep  in  a  cool  dark  place. 

MANHATTAN  COCKTAIL 

a  piece  of  lemon  peel  a  dash  of  angostura  bitters 

5/2  jigger  vermouth  a  little  syrup 

y2  jigger  whiskey  a  little  orange  juice 

Put  in  a  mixing  glass  half  filled  with  ice. 

Stir  thoroughly,  strain,  and  pour  into  cocktail  glasses. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


HOT  BEVERAGES 

CHOCOLATE 

Take  a  piece  of  Baker's  chocolate  one  inch  square  and 
melt  on  a  small  dish  on  the  stove,  set  in  another  dish  of 
hot  water  over  a  teakettle  of  boiling  water,  or  in  the 
oven.  Heat  two  cupfuls  milk,  stir  in  melted  chocolate 
and  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Serve  with  cream 
and  sugar,  if  desired. 

A  marshmallow  may  be  dropped  in  each  cup  just  before 
serving. 

A  drop  of  vanilla  may  be  added  to  each  cup. 

COFFEE 

Have  a  large  bottomed  granite  coffee  pot  (because  it 
heats  quickly  and  does  not  boil  over).  Take  one  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  ground  coffee  for  each  person  and  one 
extra  tablespoonful  for  "the  pot."  Crush  in  the  hand 
two  or  more  egg  shells  (saved  for  this  purpose),  stir  in 
with  the  coffee,  add  one  and  one-fourth  cupfuls  cold  water 
for  each  person ;  boil  three  minutes,  allow  to  remain  hot, 
but  not  boiling,  about  two  or  more  minutes. 

This  makes  one  cup  delicious  clear  strong  coffee  for  each. 

If  more  than  this  is  desired,  add  coffee  and  water  in  the 
same  proportion.  When  serving,  pour  the  coffee  on  the 
cream,  not  cream  on  the  coffee. 

Add  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt  to  coffee  for  an  agreeable  flavor. 

158 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       159 

Adding  half  a  dozen  raisins  to  a  pot  of  coffee  is  a  pleas- 
ing change. 

A  pinch  of  flour  added  to  the  coffee  before  water  is 
poured  over,  is  another  way  of  "settling." 

When  cream  is  slightly  soured,  a  little  soda  stirred  in 
will  restore  its  sweetness  for  use  in  coffee. 

DRIP  COFFEE 

Pour  boiling  water  into  a  drip  coffee  pot  to  get  it  hot, 
then  pour  it  out,  and  put  one  tablespoonful  finely  ground 
coffee  in  the  bag,  fasten  it  in  and  pour  over  it  two  cupfuls 
freshly  boiling  water.  When  the  water  has  drained 
through  the  bag,  pour  it  in  again,  drain,  and  continue 
to  pour  and  drain  four  times.  Remove  the  bag  and  if  the 
coffee  is  too  strong,  add  boiling  water.  Be  sure  to  clean 
the  bag  by  scraping  off  the  grounds  with  a  knife,  wash- 
ing it  in  cold  water,  and  having  it  perfectly  dry  before 
using  again.  Serve  the  coffee  with  cream.  This  coffee 
is  made  in  five  minutes  and  is  delicious. 

TEA 

For  a  teapot  holding  about  four  cupfuls,  put  in  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  tea,  pour  in  freshly  boiling  water,  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  stand  five  minutes  before  serving.  Milk 
should  never  be  used  with  tea,  and  only  a  little  cream,  if 
any.  To  take  it  with  lemon  juice  is  considered  by  experts 
the  proper  way  to  drink  it. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


CANDIES  AND  SWEETS 

FONDANT 

This  is  the  foundation  for  most  candies,  and  should  be 
kept  a  day  or  two  before  using.  With  it  almost  an  end- 
less variety  of  candies  may  be  made,  viz : — 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  water 

J4  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

Put  these  ingredients  to  boil,  not  stirring  after  sugar  i? 
dissolved.  After  about  five  minutes  try  it  in  cold  water, 
to  see  if  it  can  be  moulded  by  hand.  Beware  of  cooking 
it  too  long.  Let  cool  gradually,  then  stir  briskly  till 
creamy  and  ready  to  knead  by  hand.  Work  in  a  little 
sugar  if  the  mass  becomes  sticky.  Set  away  in  an  earthen 
dish  covered  with  a  damp  cloth  for  a  day  or  two.  Then 
flavor  and  form  into  candies  of  any  preferred  kind. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH 

1  cupful  sugar  ^  cupful  butter 

%  cupful  molasses  2  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water 

1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

Boil  all  together  till  it  hardens  in  cold  water.  Pour  into 
buttered  pan,  when  sufficiently  cool  mark  with  a  knife 
into  squares. 

CHOCOLATE  PEPPERMINTS 

3  cupfuls  granulated  sugar  4  oz.  melted  chocolate 

1  cupful  hot  water  1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

5  drops  oil  of  peppermint 

Boil  water,  sugar  and  cream  of  tartar  till  it  hairs.     Re- 

160 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       161 

move  from  fire  and  add  peppermint,  beating  constantly 
till  it  begins  to  cool,  when  it  must  be  dropped  quickly 
from  a  teaspoon  on  buttered  or  paraffin  paper.  When 
cold,  dip  in  the  melted  chocolate  and  return  to  paper  to 
harden. 

If  the  melted  chocolate  becomes  curdled,  add  a  little 
olive  oil. 

Any  desired  flavoring  may  be  used. 

DIVINITY  CANDY 

2  2/3  cupfuls  sugar  2/3  cupful  corn  syrup 

2/3  cupful  water  1  cupful  nuts 

whites  of  2  eggs 

Stir  sugar,  water  and  syrup  together,  boiling  till  it 
hardens  in  cold  water,  making  a  tinkling  sound  when  it 
hits  the  cup.  Mix  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  with  nuts, 
pour  the  syrup  slowly  into  the  mixture,  beating  con- 
stantly until  it  is  cool  enough  to  form  in  a  ball,  then  roll 
out  on  a  buttered  platter  and  cut  in  slices. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE 

2  cupfuls  sugar  y2  cupful  corn  syrup 

1  cupful  water  1  cupful  chopped  fruit 

whites  of  2  eggs 

Boil  sugat,  water  and  syrup  rapidly  together  till  the 
mixture  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water. 
Pour  the  hot  syrup  slowly  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites, 
beating  constantly,  and  as  soon  as  the  mixture  begins  to 
harden,  stir  in  a  cupful  of  chopped  citron,  candied  cher- 


162       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

ries,  orange,  or  similar  fruits.  Pour  the  fudge  on  to  a  but- 
tered dish,  and  cut  it  in  squares  before  it  is  cold. 

NUT  KISSES 

whites  of  2  eggs  54  teaspoonful  flavoring 

1  cupful  pulverized  sugar  1  cupful  chopped  nuts 

pinch  of  salt 

To  the  well  beaten  eggs,  add  sugar,  then  nuts,  salt  and 
flavoring,  beating  with  a  spoon  as  ingredients  are  added. 
Drop  from  a  small  spoon  in  little  balls  on  buttered  tins 
and  bake  slowly. 

KISSES 

5  tablespoonfuls  powdered  whites  of  3  eggs 

sugar  1  teaspoonful  flavoring 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  add  flavoring  and  sugar, 
dropping  from  a  dessert  spoon  on  a  buttered  paper  in  a 
pan,  baking  till  slightly  browned. 

AFTER  DINNER  MINTS 

white  of  1  egg  confectioner's  sugar 

same  quantity  of  water  yz  teaspoonful  peppermint 

flavoring 

Mix  the  beaten  white  and  water,  adding  sugar  till  the 
mixture  may  be  kneaded  like  bread  on  a  board  without 
sticking.  Add  flavoring,  knead  again,  roll  and  cut  any 
preferred  shape,  and  set  away  on  a  paraffin  paper  for 
two  days. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK   163 

PEANUT  CANDY 

2  cupfuls  molasses  yz  cupful  vinegar 

1  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  peanuts 

1  cupful  water  butter,  size  of  egg 

Boil  all  but  the  peanuts  together  till  the  mixture  hardens 
in  cold  water.  Then  stir  in  the  peanuts  with  skins  re- 
moved. 

Pour  on  buttered  plates  to  cool. 

POPCORN  BALLS 

34  cupful  coffee  sugar  %  cupful  butter 

94  cupful  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

yz  cupful  molasses  %  teaspoonful  soda 

Yz  cupful  water  4  qts.  freshly  popped  corn 

Butter  a  stew  pan  or  kettle  and  boil  in  it  without  stirring 
the  water,  molasses,  sugar  and  vinegar.  When  it  will 
hair,  add  butter.  When  the  mixture  hardens,  in  cold 
water,  add  soda  and  pour  over  corn,  stirring  with  a  mix- 
ing spoon.  Dip  the  hands  in  cold  water  and  form  the 
mixture  into  balls,  continuing  to  dip  the  hands  in  cold 
water  when  making  each  ball,  working  rapidly  before 
the  syrup  hardens.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  keep 
the  dish  containing  the  mixture  in  another  dish  of  hot 
water  to  prevent  hardening  before  balls  are  formed.  Keep 
the  finished  balls  in  a  cold  place. 

PULLED  CREAM  CANDY 

4  Ibs.  sugar  water 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar      flavoring 

Use  enough  water  to  cover  sugar  in  which  cream  of  tartar 


164       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

has  been  stirred  in  a  stew  pan,  boil  this  till  it  hardens 
slightly  in  cold  water.  Flavor,  pour  in  buttered  tins,  and 
pull  when  cool  enough  to  handle. 

PULLED  MOLASSES  CANDY 

3  cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  boiling  water 

1  cupful  molasses  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar 

^  cupful  melted  butter  ^  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

Yn  teaspoonful  soda 

Heat  molasses,  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  to  boiling  point, 
add  cream  of  tartar,  stirring  occasionally.  Boil  till  it 
hardens  in  cold  water,  stirring  often  toward  the  last. 
When  almost  done,  add  butter  and  soda.  Pour  into  but- 
tered pans  till  cool  enough  to  pull. 

It  may  be  cut  with  scissors  in  small  pieces. 

SEA  FOAM  CANDY 

3  cupfuls  sugar  1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

1  cupful  water  whites  of  2  eggs 

1  cupful  chopped  meats  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Heat  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  to  boiling,  stirring  till 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  without  stirring  till  it  hardens 
in  cold  water.  Remove  immediately  from  fire,  and  when 
partially  cool,  pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  con- 
tinuing to  beat  until  the  mixture  holds  its  shape.  Add 
nuts,  flavor,  and  drop  from  a  teaspoon  on  paraffin  paper. 

CANDIED  MINT  LEAVES 
mint  fondant  syrup 

Prepare  fondant  as  per  Fondant  recipe.    When  the  syrup 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       165 

is  boiled  so  it  will  "hair,"  remove  from  fire,  stir  a  little 
and  dip  each  small  spray  of  mint  in  it,  laying  them  on 
buttered  paper  to  harden. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  AND  LEMON  PEEL 

Cut  fresh  peel  from  four  oranges  into  one-half  inch  strips 
with  scissors.  Put  in  cold  water,  let  boil  five  minutes, 
pour  off  this  water,  put  into  cold  water  and  boil  five 
minutes  more,  pour  off  this  water,  put  into  cold  water 
and  boil  five  minutes  more  for  the  third  time.  Make  a 
syrup  of  one-half  cupful  water  and  one  cupful  granulated 
sugar,  boil  till  begins  to  thicken,  throw  in  peel,  stirring 
constantly  till  syrup  candies  on  peel.  Turn  candied  peel 
into  a  colander  to  drain,  then  roll  in  sugar. 

CANDIED  VIOLETS 

Violets  may  be  prepared  the  same  as  Candied  Mint 
leaves.  The  syrup  may  be  colored  by  using  grape  juice, 
and  the  stems  made  green  with  spinach  leaves  crushed  and 
juice  added  to  the  fondant. 


JELLIES,  PRESERVES  AND 
CANNED  FRUITS 

Never  cook  fruit  in  dishes  of  tin  or  iron. 

To  prevent  mould  gathering  on  preserves,  keep  a  pan  of 
lime  on  the  shelves  of  the  fruit  closet,  and  have  the  closet 
dark  and  cool. 

When  newly-made  jelly  is  a  trifle  too  thin,  set  the  glasses 
in  a  pan  and  put  in  the  warming  oven  until  of  the  right 
consistency. 

One  way  to  see  if  jelly  has  cooked  sufficiently  is  to  try 
it  with  a  spoon.  If  it  runs  from  the  spoon  in  drops,  not  in 
a  stream,  it  is  cooked  enough. 

When  jellies  refuse  to  "jell,"  add  a  pinch  of  powdered 
alum. 

If  the  preserving  kettle  be  placed  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  the  contents  can  cook  any  length  of  time  without 
burning,  and  need  but  occasional  stirring. 

Sprinkling  ashes  on  the  stove  lid  under  a  kettle  of  boiling 
fruit  will  prevent  the  fruit  burning  on  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle. 

Drop  half  a  dozen  small  agate  marbles  into  the  kettle 
of  jelly.  The  marbles  will  keep  in  constant  motion  and 
prevent  the  juice  from  burning. 

HEAT  SUGAR  FOR  JELLY 

Place  the  sugar  in  a  granite  dish  in  the  oven  and  stir  fre- 

166 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       167 

quently  till  all  portions  of  the  sugar  are  heated.  Do  not 
close  the  oven  door. 

JELLY  BAGS  AND  GLASSES 

Make  a  jelly  bag  from  coarse  white  flannel,  pointed  on 
the  bottom.  Bind  the  top  and  sew  strong  loops  to  sus- 
pend it  by.  The  little  hair  like  threads  on  the  flannel  seem 
to  hold  every  little  roughness,  making  the  juice  perfectly 
clear.  Have  the  bag  as  large  as  will  hang  in  the  kettle. 
Put  a  stout  stick  through  the  loops  and  suspend  it  in 
the  kettle  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  the  fruit. 
Cook  until  soft,  lifting  the  bag  occasionally  to  stir 
the  fruit  about.  When  the  fruit  is  cooked  very  soft,  sus- 
pend the  bag  in  a  convenient  place  to  drip  till  morning. 
Do  not  squeeze  it.  In  the  morning,  add  the  juice  from 
the  bag  to  that  in  the  kettle,  let  boil  about  twenty  min- 
utes, add  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  and  boil  about  ten 
minutes  more.  This  is  the  usual  way  to  make  jelly. 

JELLY  GLASSES 

Have  them  very  clean,  place  in  a  large  pan  on  the  fire 
in  cold  water,  and  heat  to  boiling  point.  Turn  glasses 
upside  down  to  drain,  then  place  quickly  on  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  hot  water.  Fill  the  glasses  and  set  aside  for  a  day, 
then  cover  the  jelly  with  melted  paraffin,  pouring  it  in  the 
glasses  from  an  old  tea  pot  or  gravy  dish.  When  a  glass 
is  opened,  save  the  paraffin  and  use  it  over  and  over. 

EASY  WAY  FOR  JELLY 

Berries  and  soft  fruit  may  be  washed  and  crushed,  placed 


168       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

in  a  cheese  cloth  bag  and  squeezed  carefully.  Measure 
the  juice  and  put  in  a  kettle  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Add 
an  equal  quantity  of  heated  sugar,  boil  five  minutes,  and 
pour  into  glasses. 

APPLE  JELLY 

Select  perfect  fruit,  wash,  cut  out  all  imperfect  parts,  re- 
move stems  and  cores,  and  put  in  a  kettle  with  cold  water 
to  cover.  Boil  slowly  till  apples  are  soft.  Strain  through 
a  jelly  bag,  and  suspend  the  bag  to  drip  over  night.  Next 
morning,  add  the  juice  to  that  in  the  kettle,  boil  twenty 
minutes,  add  an  equal  amount  of  heated  sugar.  Let  boil 
ten  minutes,  skim  and  turn  into  glasses. 

A  few  quinces  added  to  apples  make  a  delicious  jelly. 

A  rose  geranium  leaf  placed  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass 
before  pouring  the  apple  jelly  in  it,  will  impart  a  delight- 
ful flavor. 

A  drop  of  oil  of  cinnamon  put  in  apple  jelly  is  much  liked 
by  many. 

A  handful  of  cherry  leaves  thrown  into  apple  jelly  while 
boiling  will  give  the  jelly  a  perfect  cherry  flavor.  The 
leaves  may  be  removed  after  boiling  about  twenty 
minutes. 

APPLE  AND  FIG  JAM 

Wash  and  wipe  the  desired  quantity  of  apples,  cut  in 
two,  but  do  not  peel  or  core,  remove  stem,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  cook  till  soft.  Pour  in  a  jelly  bag  to 
strain.  Cut  each  fig  of  the  desired  quantity  into  three 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       169 

or  four  pieces,  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  till  soft, 
then  cool.  After  the  figs  are  cold,  stir  in  with  the  apple 
juice  and  sugar,  using  one  pint  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of 
juice,  and  two  cupfuls  figs  to  four  pints  of  juice.  Boil  this 
mixture  till  it  jellies,  then  put  it  in  sealed  jars. 

Part  of  this  jam  may  be  flavored  with  a  little  whole  ginger. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY 

Cook  one  quart  cranberries  in  one  cupful  of  water  for  ten 
minutes.  Put  through  a  sieve,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
stir  till  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  pour  into  glasses.  Do  not 
allow  juice  to  boil  after  adding  sugar. 

CURRANT  JELLY 

Wash  and  remove  imperfect  berries,  but  not  stems. 
Mash,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  simmer  till  currants 
are  colorless.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Let  drip  over 
night.  Next  morning,  measure  the  juice  and  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  heated  sugar,  boil 
five  minutes  and  pour  into  glasses. 

Currants  and  raspberries  make  one  of  the  very  best  jellies. 

GRAPE  JELLY 

Pick  over  the  grapes,  wash  and  remove  from  stems.  Put 
in  a  kettle,  heat  to  boiling  point,  mash  and  boil  twenty 
minutes.  Put  through  a  colander,  then  through  a  jelly 
bag  to  drip  till  morning.  Measure  the  juice  and  boil  ten 
minutes.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  heated  sugar,  boil 
five  minutes  and  pour  into  glasses. 


170       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

RED  RASPBERRY  JELLY 

Pick  over  the  berries,  wash  and  cook  slowly  till  soft, 
using  one  cupful  of  hot  water  to  each  quart  of  berries. 
Let  drip  all  night  in  a  jelly  bag.  Next  morning,  measure 
the  juice  and  allow  an  equal  quantity  of  heated  sugar. 
Cook  enough  apples  to  make  one  cupful  of  apple  juice, 
strain,  add  to  the  berry  juice  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Add  the  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved,  cook  five  minutes 
longer  and  turn  into  glasses. 

RHUBARB  JELLY 

Wash,  and  cut  rhubarb  into  small  pieces,  put  in  a  kettle 
with  cold  water  to  cover  and  boil  till  soft.  Let  drip 
through  a  jelly  bag  over  night.  Do  not  squeeze.  Meas- 
ure the  juice  next  morning,  and  allow  an  equal  quantity 
of  heated  sugar.  Boil  the  juice  fifteen  minutes,  add  sugar 
and  boil  five  minutes.  To  each  quart  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  As  soon  as 
gelatine  is  dissolved  in  the  juice,  pour  into  glasses. 

DRIED  FRUIT  JELLY 

Wash  the  fruit,  let  soak  over  night  and  cook  in  the  same 
water.  Cook  till  tender  and  proceed  as  in  making  Apple 
Jelly. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Wash  and  cut  the  peel  in  quarters  from  eight  oranges  and 
four  lemons.  Cook  the  peel  until  soft  in  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover.  Save  four  cups  of  this  water  and  pour  it 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       171 

over  three  quarts  of  sugar.  Scrape  the  white  insides  of 
the  peelings  with  a  spoon,  throwing  this  inside  lining 
away,  and  cut  the  peelings  in  narrow  strips  with  the  scis- 
sors. Remove  the  seeds  and  the  tough  skin  from  the 
orange,  dividing  it  into  small  sections.  Then  cook  the 
syrup,  pulp  and  peelings  all  together  for  nearly  one  hour. 

CARROT  PRESERVES 

Wash  and  scrape  three  pounds  of  carrots,  steam  until 
tender,  add  two  quarts  of  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
six  lemons,  and  one-half  cupful  chopped  almonds.  Cook 
thirty-five  minutes. 

LEMON  RIND  PRESERVE 

During  the  summer,  whenever  lemonade  is  made,  after 
squeezing  the  lemons,  drop  the  shells  into  a  jar  of  fresh 
water,  keep  it  in  the  ice  box  and  change  the  water  twice 
a  week.  At  the  time  of  changing,  drops  of  pure  oil  of 
lemon  will  be  found  floating  on  the  water.  Put  these 
drops  carefully  in  a  bottle.  After  about  two  weeks, 
scrape  the  white  inside  out  with  a  spoon  and  throw  it 
away.  Weigh  the  shells  and  add  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar  and  cook  slowly  till  thick. 

RASPBERRY  PRESERVES 

Take  an  equal  weight  of  fruit  and  sugar.  It  is  usually 
cupful  for  cupful.  Cook  one-fourth  of  the  fruit  till  soft. 
Strain  it,  and  pour  the  juice  in  the  kettle  with  the  sugar, 
stirring  till  sugar  is  dissolved.  Put  in  the  remainder  of 
the  fruit  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dip  out  the  fruit  and 


172       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

put  in  jars  till  nearly  full.  Boil  the  syrup  till  it  jellies, 
pour  over  the  berries  till  jars  are  completely  filled,  and 
seal. 

If  a  tablespoonful  of  glycerine  be  added  to  each  pound  of 
fruit  used  in  making  jam,  it  will  prevent  crystallization. 

FRUIT  JARS 

Turn  fruit  jars  upside  down  to  prevent  fruit  becoming 
mouldy. 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  borax  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water,  put  the  jars  in  the  pan  and  set  on  the  fire  till  the 
water  is  at  boiling  point.  Remove  the  jars,  place  on  a 
cloth  wrung  from  hot  water,  and  fill  immediately  with 
fruit.  Put  on  one  rubber  and  screw  on  the  cover.  Let  stand 
till  just  cool  enough  to  handle,  and  to  harden  the  paraffin. 
Pour  the  paraffin  all  over  the  rubber  where  it  touches  the 
jar  and  where  it  hits  the  cover.  When  opening  jars,  save 
the  paraffin  and  use  again. 

When  a  fruit  jar  cover  refuses  to  come  off,  run  a  knife 
around  the  jar  under  the  rubber  band,  and  the  cover  will 
loosen  immediately. 

SAVING  PEELINGS 

Whenever  apples,  peaches  or  similar  fruits  are  peeled, 
dry  the  peelings,  and  at  preserving  time  they  are  fine  for 
jelly. 

TO  REMOVE  PEACH  SKINS 
Place  the  fruit  in  a  pan  and  cover  it  with  boiling  water. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       173 

Place  another  pan  of  the  same  size  over  this,  and  let 
stand  until  cool,  and  the  skins  will  come  off  almost  whole 
in  the  fingers.  And  when  the  peach  is  cut  open,  the  pit 
will  drop  out. 

When  putting  away  fruit  jars  if  the  rubbers  are  dropped 
inside  and  the  cover  screwed  down,  the  rubbers  will  be 
just  as  good  the  next  season. 

Discoloration  on  the  hands  from  vegetables  or  fruit  may 
be  removed  by  dipping  the  hands  in  very  strong  tea  and 
washing  them  in  warm  water. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


CANNING  IN  THE  JARS 

CANNING  APPLES 

Add  four  quarts  of  cold  water  to  one  quart  of  sugar  and 
boil  to  a  syrup  and  cool.  Wash,  wipe  and  cut  in  quarters 
rather  tart  apples  and  pack  in  fruit  jars.  As  fast  as  a  jar 
is  filled,  cover  immediately  with  the  syrup  to  prevent  the 
fruit  turning  dark.  When  jars  enough  are  ready  to 
heat,  put  them  in  a  wash  boiler,  galvanized  tub  or  dish 
pan,  setting  them  on  small  pieces  of  wood  to  prevent  them 
from  resting  on  the  bottom.  Put  in  cold  water  to  nearly 
the  top  of  the  jars  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  Some  of 
the  fruit  will  cook  down,  and  all  such  jars  must  be  filled 
with  hot  syrup.  Seal  immediately. 

CANNING  APRICOTS,  PEACHES,  PEARS,  ETC. 

Proceed  same  as  Canning  Apples. 

CANNING  PEACHES  AFTER  SEALING 

Prepare  a  basket  of  firm  peaches  by  washing,  wiping, 
peeling,  quartering  and  removing  pits.  As  fast  as  peeled, 
put  into  cold  water  to  prevent  turning  dark.  Add  one 
quart  of  sugar  to  four  quarts  of  water  and  boil  to  a  thin 
syrup.  Set  the  jars  on  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water, 
fill  tightly  with  the  fruit,  and  pour  in  boiling  syrup  to  fill 
the  jars  completely.  Seal  immediately.  Place  the  jars 
at  once  in  a  tub  or  wash  boiler  and  cover  with  boiling 
water.  Place  a  cover  over  them  and  leave  until  cold. 
Pour  paraffin  around  each  jar  where  cover  hits  the  rubber 

174 


and  where  the  rubber  hits  the  glass.  Old  blankets  or 
rugs  may  be  used  as  a  cover  for  jars  in  tubs. 

CANNING  PEARS,  QUINCES  AND  GRAPES 

Proceed  as  in  JCanning  Apples  or  Peaches. 

CANNING  RHUBARB 

Wash,  peel  and  cut  rhubarb  in  inch  lengths.  Place  im- 
mediately in  jars,  fill  them,  with  fresh  cold  water  and  seal 
at  once. 

CANNING  TOMATOES 

Proceed  as  in  Canning  Peaches,  substituting  boiling  water 
for  syrup. 

SPICED  PEACHES 

Wash  and  wipe  firm  peaches,  but  do  not  peel  them.  Add 
one  and  one-half  quarts  sugar  to  one  quart  of  vinegar. 
As  soon  as  the  syrup  boils,  put  in  as  many  peaches  as  it 
will  cover,  cook  till  tender  and  seal  in  fruit  jars. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI 

Put  one  pint  of  French  brandy  into  a  three  gallon  stone 
jar.  Put  a  layer  of  unsweetened  stewed  strawberries  in 
the  bottom,  and  cover  with  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar. 
Then  add  the  fruits  as  they  appear  in  market,  stewing 
them  till  soft,  adding  one  cupful  of  sugar  to  one  cupful  of 
fruit.  Keep  covered  with  a  piece  of  thick  white  paper  to 
fit  in  the  jar.  Dip  the  paper  in  olive  oil  and  take  it  out 
each  time  fresh  fruit  is  added.  When  the  jar  is  filled, 
cover  well  and  keep  in  a  cool  dark  place. 


CANNING  VEGETABLES 

CANNING  GREEN  BEANS 

String  and  break  into  one  inch  pieces,  then  proceed  as  in 
canning  Peaches,  substituting  boiling  water  for  syrup. 

CANNING  CORN 

9  cupfuls  corn  ^  cupful  salt 

yz  cupful  sugar  2  cupfuls  water 

Cut  sweet  corn  from  the  cob,  stir  in  with  salt  and  sugar 
and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Pour  into  glass  jars  and  seal 
as  in  canning  fruits.  After  opening  the  corn  for  use,  rinse 
in  cold  water  to  remove  surplus  salt. 

GREEN  TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT 

1  peck  chopped  green  tomatoes  2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon 

4  Ibs.  sugar  1  tablespoonful  cloves 

1  Ib.  raisins  2  tablespoonfuls  salt 

1  Ib.  currants  1  tablespoonful  allspice 

Y$  Ib.  citron  */2  cupful  butter 

Put  tomatoes  through  the  food  chopper  to  crush  and 
loosen  the  juice,  add  all  the  other  ingredients,  cook  until 
tender  and  can  in  glass  jars,  for  use  in  winter. 


176 


CHUTNEY,  CATSUP,   PICKLES,  ETC. 

APPLE  CHUTNEY 

6  tart  apples  54  cupful  brown  sugar 

4  tomatoes  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

1  onion  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  cupful  vinegar  a  clove  of  garlic 

Peel  and  chop  apples  and  tomatoes,  add  onion  and  garlic 
grated,  spices,  sugar  and  vinegar.  Mix  well  and  boil  ten 
minutes.  Allow  the  mixture  to  cool,  then  seal  in  jars  or 
bottles. 


BENGAL  CHUTNEY 

2  Ibs.  green  apples  1  teaspoonful  ginger 
54  lb.  brown  sugar  1  teaspoonful  garlic 

3  cupfuls  vinegar  dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Chop  apples  and  mix  all  together  in  a  stone  jar  and  bake 
five  or  six  hours  till  the  mixture  is  like  pulp.  Seal  in  jars 
or  bottles. 

EAST  INDIA  CHUTNEY 

3  pints  vinegar  2  oz.  ground  mustard 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  4  oz.  mustard  seed 

1  cupful  salt  54  °z«  tumeric 

12  large  sour  apples  y2  oz.  cayenne  pepper 

7  large  tomatoes  4  oz.  onions 

1  lb.  raisins  2  cloves  of  garlic 

Put  all  spices  in  a  little  cheese  cloth  bag  and  tie.  Pare 
and  chop  the  apples,  tomatoes  and  onions,  add  the  other 

177 


178       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

ingredients,  mix  all  thoroughly  and  boil  for  two  hours. 
Put  through  a  colander  and  seal  in  jars  or  bottles. 

GOOSEBERRY  CHUTNEY 

2  pints  goosberries  3  tablespoonfuls  mustard 
V/z  cupfuls  raisins  3  tablespoonfuls  ginger 

3  onions  3  tablespoonfuls  salt 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  y2  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper 

1  quart  vinegar  J4  teaspoonful  tumeric 

Chop  onions  and  berries,  put  on  to  heat  and  add  the  other 
ingredients  and  cook  thirty  minutes.  Strain  through  a 
sieve  and  seal. 

QUICK  CHUTNEY 

Scald  and  peel  one  large  tomato,  chop,  add  one  small 
chopped  onion  and  one  chopped  green  chili.  Mix  thor- 
oughly with  one-half  teaspoonful  lemon  juice  and  a  pinch 
each  of  salt  and  sugar. 

CATSUP 

To  keep  catsup  from  moulding,  place  a  few  whole  cloves 
on  top  just  before  sealing. 

Always  keep  pickles  and  vinegar  in  glass  jars. 

PRUNE  CATSUP 

4  quarts  prune  pulp  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
3  cupfuls  vinegar                              3  teaspoonfuls  pepper 

\y2  cupfuls  brown  sugar  yz  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper 

J4  cupful  salt  2  cupfuls  mustard 

1  teaspoonful  cloves 

Soak  dried  prunes  over  night.     Drain  and  cook  soft  in 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       179 

boiling  water.  Remove  pits  and  put  through  colander. 
Mix  the  pulp  thoroughly  with  all  the  ingredients,  cook 
for  one  hour  and  stir  constantly.  Seal  and  allow  to  stand 
at  least  a  month  before  using. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

5^  bushel  ripe  tomatoes  1  tablespoonful  allspice 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  tablespoonful  cloves 

2  cupfuls  vinegar  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon 
34  cupful  salt  1  teaspoonful  pepper 

}/2  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper 

Scald  and  peel  tomatoes,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  in 
a  preserving  kettle  to  cook  till  soft.  Strain  through  a 
sieve,  add  the  other  ingredients,  cook  about  three  hours 
and  seal.  Have  the  spices  tied  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

1  doz.  ripe  tomatoes  2J^  tablespoonfuls   brown 

3  large  onions  sugar 

3  large  green  peppers  2^  tablespoonfuls  salt 

\y2  cupfuls  vinegar  1^4  teasponfuls  ginger 

2yz  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon  34  teaspoonful  cloves 

Scald  and  peel  tomatoes,  slice  and  drain.  Chop  onions 
and  peppers  and  cook  all  together  about  three  hours  till 
thick.  Seal  at  once. 

QUICK  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

1  quart  vinegar  Y2  cupful  salt 

1  cupful  olive  oil  1  oz.  white  mustard  seed 

cucumbers 

Wash  cucumbers,  put  in  glass  jars  and  pour  the  well 


180       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

mixed  ingredients  over  them.  Cover,  and  allow  to  stand 
for  a  week  before  using. 

SMALL  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

Wash  and  wipe  four  quarts  small  green  cucumbers,  put  in 
a  stone  jar  and  add  one  cupful  of  salt  dissolved  in  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  let  stand  three  days.  Drain 
off  this  brine,  heat  it  to  boiling  point,  pour  over  the  cu- 
cumbers, let  stand  a  second  three  days,  drain,  heat  and 
pour  over  and  let  stand  for  a  third  three  days.  Then 
drain,  wipe  the  cucumbers,  and  pour  over  them  one  gallon 
of  boiling  water  in  which  one  tablespoonful  of  alum  is 
dissolved.  Let  stand  six  hours  and  drain  from  alum 
water.  Mix  the  following: 

1  gallon  vinegar  2  sticks  of  cinnamon 

4  red  peppers  2  tablespoonfuls  allspice 

2  tablespoonfuls  cloves 

Boil  these  ingredients  for  ten  minutes,  then  take  one- 
fourth  of  it  and  boil  with  the  cucumbers,  a  few  at  a  time 
for  ten  minutes,  putting  the  pickles  as  fast  as  boiled,  into  a 
stone  jar.  Strain  the  other  three-fourths  of  the  mixture 
over  pickles  in  jar. 

DILE  PICKLES 

Wash  cucumbers  and  lay  in  water  over  night.  Next 
morning  pack  tightly  in  jars  and  fill  the  spaces  between 
the  pickles  with  dill.  Make  a  brine  of  three  quarts  water, 
one  quart  vinegar  and  one  cupful  salt,  boil  together  and 
pour  while  hot  over  the  pickles  and  seal.  Dill  may  be 
added  to  suit  the  taste. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       181 

FRENCH  PICKLES 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  2  quarts  water 

<>  onions  4  quarts  vinegar 

1  cupful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  cloven 

2  Ibs.  brown  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  ginger 
2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon  2  tablespoonfuls  allspice 

2  tablespoonfuls  mustard  1  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper 

Slice  tomatoes  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  the  salt  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Next  morning,  drain,  add  two  quarts 
of  water  and  one  quart  of  vinegar,  boil  fifteen  minutes  and 
drain.  Then  add  the  remaining  two  quarts  of  vinegar 
and  the  other  ingredients  and  boil  twenty  minutes  and  set 
away  in  a  covered  crock,  or  seal  in  jars. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


WINES,  FLAVORINGS  AND  VINEGARS 

GRAPE  WINE 

Wash  and  pick  grapes  from  stems,  press  out  the  juice, 
measure,  and  put  in  a  stone  jar  with  three  pounds  of 
sugar  to  each  gallon.  Skim  it  for  twelve  consecutive 
days.  Then  strain,  and  add  one  and  one-half  pints  alco- 
hol to  six  gallons  of  juice.  Pour  in  stone  jars  and  cork 
tightly. 

STRAWBERRY  WINE 

Proceed  as  for  Grape  Wine,  using  two  and  one-half 
pounds  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  juice. 

UNFERMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE 

Have  thoroughly  fresh  ripe  grapes.  Wash,  remove  skins, 
boil  skins  and  pulp  together  in  a  little  water  till  tender. 
Strain  through  cheese  cloth,  but  do  not  squeeze.  Hang 
up  to  drip  several  hours.  Measure  the  juice,  put  it  on  to 
boil  and  as  soon  as  it  starts  boiling,  add  half  as  much 
sugar  as  there  is  juice.  Boil  till  sugar  dissolves,  put  into 
jars  and  seal  hot. 

MAKING  LEMON  FLAVORING  No.  1 

Cut  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  in  small  pieces,  put  them  into 
a  four  ounce  bottle,  fill  with  deodorized  strong  alcohol 
and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  one  week.  Put  two 

182 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       183 

drachms  fresh  oil  of  lemon,  four  ounces  of  deodorized 
strong  alcohol  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  in  a  large 
bottle  and  strain  into  the  contents  the  contents  of  the 
smaller  bottle. 

MAKING  LEMON  FLAVORING  No.  2 

Cover  small  pieces  of  fresh  lemon  peel  with  brandy  in 
tightly  covered  jars,  and  use  the  liquid  later  for  flavoring. 

DRIED  LEMON  FLAVORING 

Put  dried  lemon  peel  through  the  food  chopper  two  or 
three  times,  sift,  and  put  the  fine  powder  away  for 
flavoring. 

MAKING  ORANGE  FLAVORING 

Proceed  same  as  in  making  Lemon  Flavoring. 

MAKING  VANILLA  FLAVORING  No.  1 

With  one  ounce  of  finely  cut  fresh  vanilla  beans,  rub  two 
ounces  of  sugar  and  put  in  a  pint  bottle.  Pour  over  this 
four  ounces  of  distilled  water  and  ten  ounces  of  95% 
deodorized  alcohol.  Let  stand  for  two  weeks  in  a  warm 
place,  shaking  occasionally. 

MAKING  VANILLA  FLAVORING  No.  2 

Proceed  as  in  making  Dried  Lemon  Flavoring. 
Vanilla  should  be  kept  in  the  dark. 


184       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TO  CLARIFY  VINEGAR  OR  WINE 

To  each  gallon  of  vinegar,  pour  in  one  pint  or  a  little 
more,  of  new  milk,  and  let  stand  one  day.  The  milk  will 
be  curdled  and  caked  in  the  bottom  of  the  jar  and  all  the 
sediment  will  adhere  to  it,  and  the  vinegar  may  be  drained 
off  perfectly  clear. 

WATERMELON  VINEGAR 

Take  the  inside  of  very  ripe  watermelons,  crush  in  a  stone 
jar,  strain  the  juice  into  glass  jars,  cover  and  set  away  to 
sour.  Makes  good  vinegar. 

A  small  button  of  garlic  in  a  quart  of  vinegar  gives  a  good 
flavor  to  salads  with  which  it  is  used. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


PERSONAL  COMFORTS  AND  THINGS 
GOOD  TO  KNOW 

GOOD  COMPLEXION  CREAMS 

Plenty  of  buttermilk  drank  each  day. 

At  least  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  each  day. 

Tomatoes  eaten  daily. 

Onions  eaten  three  times  a  week. 

Plenty  of  good  drinking  water. 

Apples  eaten  daily. 

CUTS,  BURNS,  ETC. 

Put  a  few  drops  of  carbolic  acid  in  the  water  to  wash  cuts, 
burns  and  bruises. 

Never  close  a  cut  with  court  plaster.  When  necessary  to 
cover  it  to  keep  out  dirt,  or  to  prevent  hitting  it,  fasten 
a  soft  piece  of  linen  over  it. 

AN  INSECT  IN  THE  EAR 

Hold  a  lighted  lamp  to  the  ear,  and  the  insect  will  at  once 
come  toward  it. 

TO  REMOVE  A  SUBSTANCE  FROM  THE  EYE 

To  remove  a  foreign  substance  from  the  eye,  slice  a  very 
thin  piece  from  a  raw  potato,  raise  the  lid  and  lay  the 

185 


186       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

potato  on  the  eyeball.  Leave  for  a  little  time,  remove 
and  the  substance  will  be  found  adhering  to  the  potato. 

A  moistened  flax-seed  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  potato  piece. 

TO  PREVENT  EYE-GLASSES  STEAMING 

Rub  both  sides  of  eye-glass  lenses  with  soap  or  vaseline, 
wipe  off  with  a  soft  cloth  and  polish  with  tissue  paper  or 
a  silk  handkerchief,  and  glasses  will  not  steam  in  cold 
weather. 

TO  REMOVE  A  FISH  BONE  FROM  THE  THROAT 

Swallow  a  raw  oyster  or  a  raw  egg. 

BLISTERED  HEELS 

If  heels  are  blistered  from  slipping  up  and  down  in  low 
shoes,  paste  four  small  half  circles  of  velveteen  smoothly 
to  the  side  of  the  heel  and  the  nap  of  the  velveteen  will 
prevent  the  foot  slipping. 

Another  way  to  prevent  blistered  heels  from  low  shoes 
rubbing  them,  is  to  stick  a  strip  of  adhesive  tape  around 
the  back  of  the  heel  at  the  spot  where  the  shoe  rubs. 

HOT  CLOTHS 

Hot  cloths  may  be  quickly  prepared  by  heating  them  in  a 
steamer,  which  is  easier  than  wringing  them  out  of  hot 
water. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       187 

HOT  WATER  BAG 

Instead  of  the  rubber  bag  for  hot  water,  a  screw  top  coffee 
can  is  a  good  substitute,  as  it  never  leaks,  and  keeps  hot 
all  night.  Cover  it  with  a  washable  case  of  outing 
flannel. 

Another  good  hot  bag  is  one  made  of  strong  muslin  with 
a  washable  cover.  Heat  clean  sand  in  the  oven  and  fill 
the  bag. 

A  bag  filled  with  hot  salt  is  also  gjod. 

LOCKJAW  PRECAUTION 

When  a  rusty  nail  or  any  other  metal  causes  a  wound, 
bathe  it,  and  hold  it  for  half  an  hour  or  more  over  a  burn- 
ing woolen  cloth.  A  piece  of  wool  may  be  burned  over  a 
shovel  of  coals,  or  in  any  other  way,  just  so  the  smoke 
pours  on  the  wound. 

TO  MAKE  A  MUSTARD  PLASTER 

2  teaspoonfuls  mustard  2  teaspoonfuls  ginger 

2  teaspoonfuls  flour  water 

Mix  the  mustard,  flour,  and  ginger  with  enough  water  to 
make  a  paste,  and  place  between  two  pieces  of  soft  muslin 
and  apply.  If  it  burns  too  much  at  first,  lay  on  an  extra 
piece  of  muslin  and  remove  it  later. 

TO  STOP  A  SIMPLE  NOSE  BLEED 

Press  with  the  fingers  on  the  upper  lip  beneath  the  nostril. 


188   PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TO  EXTRACT  A  NEEDLE  FROM  THE  FLESH 

Apply  a  magnet  immediately. 

POISONS 

In  case  of  accidental  swallowing  of  poison,  mix  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  mustard  with  a  cupful  of  warm  water  and 
swallow  as  quickly  as  possible. 

TO  REMOVE  A  SPLINTER 

Fill  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  nearly  full  of  hot  water,  place 
the  part  containing  the  splinter  over  the  mouth  of  the 
bottle  and  press  tightly.  The  suction  will  draw  the  flesh 
down  and  the  steam  will  remove  the  splinter. 

LAVENDER  SMELLING  SALTS 

8  oz.  carbonate  of  ammonia  cut      yz  oz.  oil  of  lavender 
in  squares  ^  oz.  oil  of  bergamot 

1  fluid  ounce  oil  of  cloves  J^  oz.  oil  of  cassia 

Put  the  ammonia  into  a  smelling  bottle,  mix  the  oils 
thoroughly  and  pour  just  enough  into  the  bottle  to  cover 
the  ammonia,  keeping  the  remainder  to  replenish  the 
smelling  bottle. 

TO  RELIEVE  THIRST  WITHOUT  WATER 

Keep  a  dry  pebble  or  button  in  the  mouth. 


BATHROOM  AND  TOILET 

TO  CLEAN  COMBS 

Put  a  few  drops  of  ammonia  in  a  basin  of  water  and  let 
the  combs  remain  in  it  a  few  minutes,  rinse  and  wipe. 
Combs  may  also  be  cleaned  in  gasoline. 

TO  CLEAN  A  BATHTUB 

Use  kerosene,  gasoline,  or  turpentine  on  an  enameled  tub. 

FOR  THE  BATH 

Mix  four  ounces  of  alcohol,  one-half  ounce  of  ammonia 
and  one  drachm  of  oil  of  lavender,  and  pour  a  few  drops 
into  a  bowl  of  water  to  perfume  and  soften  it. 

FOR  BATH  BAGS 

4  Ibs.  oatmeal  2  quarts  of  bran 

l*/2  lb.  powdered  orrisroot  1  Ib.  white  castile  soap 

iy2  lb.  almond  meal  3  oz.  violet  sachet 

Have  the  soap  dried  and  powdered,  mix  all  together  and 
keep  in  glass  jars  from  which  to  fill  small  cheese  cloth 
bags  to  use  as  sponges. 

Another  pleasing  softener  and  perfume  is  made  with  two 
and  one-half  pounds  of  fine  oatmeal  and  four  ounces  of 
powdered  orris  root.  Make  cheese  cloth  bags  about  four 
inches  square,  and  fill  as  wanted. 

189 


190       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  borax  is  good  to  soften 
the  water  in  the  bath. 

A  few  drops  of  lavender  and  cologne  in  the  bath  are 
pleasing. 

A  few  drops  of  camphor  seems  refreshing  in  a  bath. 

TO  CLEAN  BRISTLE  BRUSHES 

Wash  in  warm  water  in  which  a  little  baking  soda  is  dis- 
solved, and  rinse  in  warm  water  and  turn  bristle  side 
down  to  dry. 

FOR  THE  HANDS 

Immediately  after  washing  and  wiping  the  hands,  dip  in 
vinegar  and  rub  together  till  dry. 

Corn  meal  used  with  vinegar  is  good. 

Lemon  juice  is  fine  for  removing  stains  from  the  hands. 

Putting  salt  into  water  for  rinsing  the  hands  after  clean- 
ing them  in  soapy  water,  will  be  beneficial. 

A  little  granulated  sugar  should  be  kept  on  the  wash- 
stand  to  dip  the  fingers  in  after  covering  with  soap.  The 
sugar  makes  a  fine  lather  and  leaves  the  hands  very  soft. 
Do  not  keep  much  sugar  on  the  stand,  as  it  soon  gets 
hard,  but  add  to  it  as  needed. 

Rubbing  the  hands  with  a  cut  tomato  once  each  day  will 
remove  stains  and  whiten  the  hands. 

FOR  A  DISCOLORED  NECK 

Dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  one  pint  of  fresh  milk, 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       191 

wash  the  neck  with  it  at  night,  let  it  dry  on,  and  wash 
off  with  warm  water  in  the  morning. 

TO  CLEAN  A  SPONGE 

Rub  lemon  juice  well  into  it,  and  rinse  in  several  luke- 
warm waters,  to  remove  a  sour  smell. 

THE  TEETH 

Put  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  in  the  water  with  which 
the  teeth  are  brushed. 

Occasionally  brush  the  teeth  with  salt. 

TO  CLEANSE  A  TOOTHBRUSH 

Wash  toothbrushes  occasionally  in  a  strong  solution  of 
salt  and  water  and  dip  them,  once  in  a  while,  in  boiling 
water. 

TO  MAKE  A  TOOTH  POWDER 

Mix  two  ounces  of  precipitated  chalk  with  two  ounces  of 
powdered  orris  root,  then  add  twelve  drops  of  eucalyptus 
and  mix  again. 


THE  HAIR 

A  DRY  SHAMPOO 

Sift  yellow  corn  meal  till  fine,  and  rub  into  the  hair,  brush 
thoroughly,  and  repeat. 

AN  EGG  SHAMPOO 

Beat  two  eggs,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  rub  thoroughly 
through  the  hair,  and  rinse  in  several  warm  waters.  Dry 
in  sun  and  air. 

Rub  dry  salt  into  the  hair  at  night,  wear  a  night  cap,  and 
brush  out  all  the  salt  in  the  morning,  to  make  the  hair 
lustrous. 

Washing  hair  in  warm  salt  water  is  very  good  if  not  done 
too  often.  Always  dry  in  sun  and  air. 

A  GOOD  SHAMPOO 

Lay  a  cake  of  Ivory  soap  in  a  pitcher,  pour  over  it  a  pint 
of  boiling  water,  and  stir  till  there's  a  good  lather.  Add 
one  teaspoonful  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  wash  the  hair  and 
scalp  thoroughly  and  rinse  in  several  warm  waters. 

A  SHAMPOO  FOR  AUBURN  HAIR 

Put  five  cents  worth  of  Salts  of  Tartar  in  a  pint  of  warm 
water,  rub  into  the  hair,  making  a  fine  lather.  Leave  it  a 
short  time,  and  rinse  in  several  warm  waters. 

192 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       193 

WASHING  BLOND  HAIR 

After  shampooing  blond  hair,  to  the  last  rinsing  water, 
add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  strained  through  a  cloth. 
Dry  in  sun  and  air. 

TO  KEEP  HAIR  IN  CURL 

Put  the  white  of  an  egg  in  a  cup,  beat  to  a  froth,  and  fill 
the  cup  with  rain  water.  Apply  this  to  the  hair,  and  roll 
on  clean  strips  of  old  stockings  and  tie  in  bow  knots. 

TO  REMOVE  TANGLES 
Put  a  little  alcohol  on  the  tangle. 


GLOVES,  PARASOLS,  ETC. 

TO  MEND  GLOVES 

Sew  over  and  over  on  the  wrong-  side  with  cotton  thread, 
or  place  court  plaster  of  the  same  color  on  the  underpart, 
smoothing  till  dry. 

TO  PRESERVE  NEW  GLOVES 

Wrap  in  paraffin  paper  to  prevent  fading. 

TO  FRESHEN  BLACK  KID  GLOVES 

Cover  with  ink  and  polish  with  a  soft  cloth  when  dry. 

TO  CLEAN  CHAMOIS  LEATHER 

Wash  in  a  weak  solution  of  soda  and  warm  water.  Soap 
the  chamois  skin  with  Ivory  soap  and  soak  it  in  the  soda 
water  for  two  hours.  Rub  it  softly  till  clean,  rinse  in  two 
soapy  waters  (not  clear  water),  wring  in  a  rough  towel, 
dry  in  the  air,  and  when  nearly  dry,  pull  carefully  into 
shape. 

TO  FRESHEN  SUEDE  KID 

Rub  with  a  piece  of  emery  paper. 

TO  DRY-CLEAN  WHITE  GLOVES 

Lay  the  gloves  on  a  table,  rub  into  them  Fuller's  earth 
and  powdered  alum  mixed  in  equal  quantities,  rub  well, 

194 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       195 

then  brush  well,  and  sprinkle  with  dry  bran  and  whiten- 
ing. Leave  'on  a  short  time,  then  shake. 

TO  WASH  WHITE  SILK  GLOVES 

Wash  at  night  with  Ivory  soap  suds.  Rinse  well  and  let 
dry  in  the  dark  to  prevent  turning  yellow. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  KID  GLOVES 

Put  on  the  hands  and  proceed  to  wash  them  as  though 
washing  the  hands  in  a  bowl  of  gasoline.  When  clean, 
wipe  dry  on  a  clean  white  flannel  or  towel.  Remove  and 
hang  out  to  air.  Use  gasoline  out  of  doors. 

TO  CLEAN  A  WHITE  PARASOL 

Put  in  a  tub  of  warm  Ivory  soap  suds,  and  scrub  inside 
and  out,  carefully,  with  a  small  scrubbing  brush.  Rinse 
well,  and  dry  open,  out  of  doors  in  the  sun.  If  the  para- 
sol  is  white  silk,  dry  in  the  shade. 

TO  CLEAN  KHAKI  TROUSERS 

Use  warm  water,  soap,  and  a  scrubbing  brush. 


SHOES  AND  RUBBERS 

TO  BLACKEN  SHOES 

Use  a  discarded  tooth  brush  to  apply  paste  blacking.  A 
few  drops  of  paraffin  added  to  shoe  blacking  will  impart 
a  good  polish  to  damp  shoes,  and  help  preserve  the 
leather. 

TO  CLEAN  PATENT  LEATHERS 

Clean  with  olive  oil,  then  polish  briskly  with  a  soft  woolen 
cloth. 

Wipe  off  dust  and  dirt,  clean  with  sweet  milk,  leaving 
the  milk  on  for  a  few  minutes,  then  wipe  with  a  soft 
cloth. 

Wipe  the  patent  leather  to  remove  dust,  then  wipe  with 
olive  oil  and  polish  with  a  soft  cloth. 

CLEANING  TAN  SHOES 

Rub  with  the  inside  of  a  banana  peel,  then  wipe  dry  with 
a  soft  cloth. 

A  flannel  cloth  dipped  in  turpentine  cleans  tan  leather. 

CLEANING  WHITE  CANVAS  SHOES 

Use  a  preparation  purchased  at  the  stores  where  the  shoes 
are  sold.  It  is  much  more  convenient  to  use  and  costs 
no  more  than  preparations  made  at  home. 

196 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       197 

CLEANING  WHITE  KID  SHOES 

Dip  a  clean  white  flannel  in  benzine  and  rub  the  kid, 
dipping  frequently  into  the  benzine  and  rubbing  quickly, 
then  rub  with  a  dry  flannel. 

A  piece  of  Art  Gum  is  also  good  for  cleaning  kid,  but  if 
badly  soiled,  plenty  of  benzine  or  gasoline  is  better. 

FOR  CREAKY  SHOES 

Have  a  cobbler  drive  a  couple  of  small  wooden  pegs  into 
the  soles. 

CARE  OF  NEW  SHOES 

If  allowed  to  stand  over  night  in  a  pan  with  enough  olive 
oil  to  cover  the  soles,  they  will  last  longer,  and  never 
creak. 

Rub  new  shoes  with  a  slice  of  raw  potato,  and  they  will 
polish  as  easily  as  old  ones. 

Coat  the  soles  of  new  shoes  with  three  or  four  coats  of 
copal  varnish  and  they  will  seldom  need  resoling. 

Rub  new  shoes  occasionally  with  vaseline  to  prolong 
their  wearing  qualities. 

If  the  soles  of  shoes  are  oiled  with  a  little  vaseline  about 
twice  each  month,  and  let  dry  over  night,  rubbers  will 
seldom  be  needed  to  keep  out  dampness. 

Wet  shoes  should  be  stuffed  with  paper  to  absorb  the 
moisture  and  prevent  the  leather  getting  hard. 


198       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

INNER  SOLES 

Inner  soles  for  shoes  may  be  cut  from  old  felt  hats.  Soles 
for  bedroom  slippers  may  be  cut  from  old  felt  hats  and 
glued  to  the  ordinary  sole,  or  bound  and  sewed  to  a  soft 
top  shoe. 

SHOE  LACES 

If  shoe  laces  are  slightly  waxed,  they  will  not  come 
undone. 

Tie  a  shoe  lace  bow  as  usual,  and  before  pulling  the 
loops  tight,  slip  a  second  loop  through  the  center  and 
tighten.  This  will  never  slip. 

TO  SAVE  RUBBERS 

Cut  a  heel  shaped  piece  out  of  an  old  rubber  and  glue  in 
the  heel  of  the  new  one. 

Always  mark  your  initials  inside  your  rubbers. 

To  varnish  rubbers  helps  looks  and  wearing  qualities. 

When  heels  of  rubbers  are  worn  out,  cut  them  into  strap 
or  toe  rubbers. 

Turn  rubbers  wrong  side  out  to  wash,  and  they  will  dry 
without  rotting. 


HATS,  FEATHERS,  RIBBONS  AND 
LACES 

TO  CLEAN  FELT  HATS 

Rub  corn  meal  carefully  into  the  felt,  and  remove  with  a 
soft  brush. 

Or  scrub  with  corn  meal  and  gasoline. 

The  inner  part  of  a  stale  loaf  of  white  bread  rubbed  into 
the  felt  is  sometimes  very  successful  in  cleaning. 

Rub  the  entire  hat  with  fine  sandpaper  and  it  leaves  the 
hat  like  new. 

To  dust  a  felt  hat,  use  a  piece  of  velveteen. 
TO  CLEAN  STRAW  HATS 
Clean  a  black  chip  hat  with  a  soft  cloth  dipped  in  alcohol. 

To  restore  the  color,  use  one-half  pint  hot  water  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  ammonia.  Cover  the  hat  with  a  cloth  wet  in 
this  mixture,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  place  a  warm 
iron  over  the  cloth,  and  press  into  shape. 

TO  FRESHEN  BLACK  STRAW  HATS 

Mix  one  ounce  of  black  sealing  wax  and  one-half  pint  of 
alcohol.  Leave  the  bottle  in  a  warm  place  till  the  con- 
tents are  creamy,  shake  the  bottle  well,  and  brush  over 
the  hat. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  STRAW  HATS 

Mix  corn  meal  and  gasoline,  and  scrub  with  a  small  scrub 
brush.  Apply  till  clean,  and  brush  dry. 

199 


200       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

Another  method  is  to  make  a  paste  of  sulphur  and  lemon 
juice  and  scrub  the  hat  with  it,  rinsing  in  clear  water, 
very  quickly. 

And  still  another  way  is  to  pour  peroxide  of  hydrogen  on 
the  hat  and  brush  it  with  a  small  scrub  brush.  Repeat 
till  clean,  shape  the  hat,  and  dry  in  the  sun. 

TO  CLEAN  AND  FRESHEN  CHIFFON  HATS 

Mix  equal  parts  of  magnesia,  French  chalk  and  pulverized 
soap,  sprinkle  thickly  on  the  hat,  leave  for  a  day,  and 
brush  off. 

If  a  chiffon  or  flower  hat  is  caught  in  a  heavy  shower, 
shake  it  well  and  suspend  it  bottom  side  up  in  some  con- 
venient place  to  dry.  It  will  rev-ive  like  new. 

Any  lace  or  flower  or  other  hat  may  be  dipped  in  gasoline 
entirely,  and  cleaned  thoroughly.  Always  be  careful  to 
use  gasoline  out  of  doors. 

TO  CLEAN  FEATHERS 

Put  one  cupful  of  corn  meal,  one-half  cupful  of  white  flour 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  borax  into  a  paper 
bag  and  shake  the  feathers  in  this  till  clean,  then  remove 
and  shake.  This  also  cleans  laces,  etc. 

Feathers  are  also  cleaned  by  dipping  in  gasoline,  rubbing 
the  feathers  toward  the  tip,  then  shaking  dry.  This  does 
not  take  out  the  curl.  Never  use  gasoline  indoors. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  FEATHERS 
Make  a  paste  of  flour  and  gasoline.    Put  the  feather  in  it 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       201 

and  rub  carefully  the  entire  length,  toward  the  tip.  Re- 
peat till  clean.  Rinse  in  clear  gasoline  and  shake  dry. 

TO  CLEAN  RIBBONS 

"Wash  ribbons"  washed  in  warm  soapy  water,  squeezed 
as  dry  as  possible,  smoothed,  placed  on  an  ironing  board 
and  held  down  with  a  warm  flat  iron  in  one  hand  while 
the  other  hand  pulls  the  ribbon  quickly  under  the  iron  till 
it  is  dry,  will  be  like  new. 

This  is  good  for  cleaning  ribbons.  Dip  in  lukewarm 
water,  spread  on  a  table  and  scrub  with  a  brush  rubbed 
in  Ivory  soap.  Rinse  in  clean  warm  water  and  press  be- 
tween folds  of  thin  cloth. 

TO  WASH  DELICATE  RIBBONS 

Immerse  in  salt  and  water,  and  dissolve  shavings  of  Ivory 
soap  in  boiling  water  till  like  jelly  when  cooled  slightly. 
To  a  little  of  this  jelly,  add  warm  water  to  form  a  good 
suds,  add  a  pinch  of  borax,  put  the  ribbon  in  and  squeeze 
back  and  forth  through  the  hands  till  clean.  Then  rinse 
in  warm,  then  in  cold  water,  roll  smoothly  in  a  towel  and 
in  about  two  hours,  press  between  paper. 

Gasoline  is  fine  for  cleaning  ribbons.  Do  not  use  gaso- 
line indoors. 

Ribbons  and  silk  may  be  scrubbed  with  Ivory  soap  and 
gasoline,  rinsing  in  clean  gasoline. 

TO  STIFFEN  RIBBONS 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  in  a  cupful  of  water  and  rinse 


202       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

ribbons,  and  when  pressed  between  paper,  they  are  like 
new. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  WINGS 

Make  a  paste  of  naphtha  and  French  chalk,  letting  it  dry 
on  the  wings  and  remain  for  a  day,  then,  brush. 

Ordinary  white  wings  may  be  scrubbed  with  a  small 
scrubbing  brush  and  Ivory  soap  suds.  Scrub  in  the  direc- 
tion the  wings  grow,  rinse  well  and  while  drying,  brush 
frequently. 

TO  CURL  OSTRICH  FEATHERS 

Sprinkle  salt  over  hot  coals,  and  shake  the  feathers  over 
them. 

Or  place  the  plume  in  a  warm  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

TO  COLOR  FLOWERS 

Squeeze  a  little  oil  paint  of  the  desired  color  into  a  cup. 
Pour  in  a  little  gasoline,  and  mix  it  with  a  stiff  brush 
(about  one-half  inch  in  width)  with  the  paint.  Add 
gasoline  a  little  at  a  time  till  the  right  shade  is  reached. 
Try  a  leaf  in  it,  dipping  in,  then  shaking  dry.  Drying 
makes  the  color  several  shades  lighter.  Ribbons,  laces, 
gloves,  etc.,  may  be  tinted  in  this  manner. 

TO  PREVENT  SILK  FROM  CRACKING 

Press  with  a  hot  iron. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       203 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  SILK 

Brush  black  taffeta  with  a  piece  of  velveteen,  pin  it 
smoothly  to  the  ironing  board  and  sponge  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  ammonia  in  two  quarts  of  strong  black 
coffee.  Sponge  both  sides  and  rub  dry  with  a  clean  soft 
cloth.  An  old  soft  stocking  makes  a  good  sponging  cloth. 
Equal  parts  of  ox  gall  and  boiling  water  are  also  good 
for  sponging  black  silk. 

Another  sponging  liquid  is  one  teaspoonful  of  ammonia 
in  a  cupful  of  strong  tea. 

TO  REMOVE  BEESWAX  FROM  SILK 

Put  the  spotted  places  between  clean  white  blotting 
paper,  and  press  with  a  quite  warm  iron,  changing  the 
blotters  as  the  wax  is  absorbed. 

Grease  spots  are  often  removed  in  the  same  manner. 

TO  WASH  PONGEE  SILK 

Wash  in  lukewarm  Ivory  soap  suds,  rinse  in  warm 
water,  hang*  on  the  line  and  let  drip  dry,  and  press  on 
the  wrong  side  without  dampening.  Pongee  sometimes 
shrinks  when  wet. 

TO  FRESHEN  VELVET 

Spread  a  cloth  wrung  from  cold  water  on  top  of  a  not 
too  hot  range,  or  over  an  inverted  flat  iron,  spread  the 
velvet  over  it  and  brush  lightly  with  a  whisk  broom. 
Velvet  can  be  made  to  look  like  new. 


204       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  SATIN 

To  dry-clean  white  satin,  use  dried  bread  crumbs  finely 
sifted,  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  pulverized  blue. 
Spread  over  the  satin,  let  remain  an  hour  or  two,  and 
brush  off  with  a  piece  of  soft  clean  linen.  If  gold  or  silver 
trimmings  are  on  the  satin,  use  a  piece  of  clean  white 
velveteen  for  brushing. 

TO  WASH  WHITE  SATIN 

Use  Ivory  soap  suds  in  lukewarm  water,  rinse  in  luke- 
warm water,  and  press  on  the  wrong  side. 

Silks,  satins  and  velvets  may  often  be  cleaned  by  using 
gasoline  and  corn  meal,  cleaning  a  small  space  at  a  time 
and  rubbing  with  a  soft  clean  cloth.  By  adding  little  salt, 
the  gasoline  will  never  leave  a  mark  around  edges. 

TO  CLEAN  SILK  GOWNS 

Grate  a  large  raw  potato  to  each  quart  of  soft  water  nec- 
essary to  wash  the  dress.  Cover  the  potatoes  well  with 
cold  water,  let  stand  two  days  without  moving,  pour  off 
the  clear  water  carefully  into  the  tub  or  large  pail  in 
which  the  dress  is  to  be  washed,  and  dip  the  pieces  up 
and  down  till  clean.  Do  not  wring,  but  hang  out  to  drip 
nearly  dry,  when  the  pieces  should  be  laid  flat  and  wiped 
on  both  sides,  and  pressed  between  soft  cloths  or  paper. 

TO  WASH  LACES 

Fine  laces,  handkerchiefs,  doilies  or  trimmings,  may  be 
made  like  new  by  soaking  them  in  lukewarm  Ivory  soap 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       205 

suds  for  a  couple  of  hours,  changing  the  water  and  re- 
peating till  clean.  Squeeze  them  very  gently,  rinse  in 
several  warm  waters  and  while  quite  wet  (do  not  squeeze), 
pat  them  carefully  in  shape  on  a  flat  smooth  surface  to 
dry.  Place  them  right  side  up  and  they  will  look  exactly 
like  new,  and  it  is  very  easy  to  spread  each  tiny  figure 
into  shape  when  it  is  quite  wet.  A  large  piece  of  marble 
or  glass,  the  bottom  of  a  large  platter,  or  the  bottom  of  a 
flat  porcelain  bath  tub  is  good  to  dry  them  on.  Thin 
laces  may  be  dried  on  the  window  pane,  but  heavier  lace 
will  not  stay  on  the  glass.  Lace  yokes  are  beautifully 
done  in  this  manner. 

TO  DRY-CLEAN  LACES 

Rub  block  magnesia  or  corn  starch  carefully  into  the  lace, 
roll  or  fold  and  lay  away  for  several  days,  when  the 
powder  may  be  shaken  out.  If  not  perfectly  clean,  repeat. 
Flat  pieces  of  lace  may  be  laid  over  a  piece  of  white  paper 
that  is  covered  with  block  magnesia,  the  lace  itself  also 
well  covered,  another  sheet  of  white  paper  laid  on  the  lace 
and  a  heavy  flat  weight,  like  a  large  book,  placed  on  top 
and  left  to  press  the  lace  for  several  days.  Shake,  or 
brush  carefully  with  a  soft  brush. 

TO  CLEAN  LACE  YOKES 

Sprinkle  boric  acid  on  a  lace  yoke,  lay  away  for  a  couple 
of  days,  shake  well,  and  the  yoke  will  be  clean  without  re- 
moving it  from  the  waist. 

TO  CLEAN  LACE  WAISTS 

Put  a  delicate  lace  waist  into  a  two  quart  glass  jar  filled 


206       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

with  gasoline  with  the  top  tightly  screwed  on,  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Next  morning  pour  out  a  little  of  the 
gasoline,  shake  the  jar  thoroughly,  remove  the  waist,  and 
shake  carefully  dry.  If  the  gasoline  is  much  soiled,  rinse 
in  clean  gasoline.  And  do  not  use  gasoline  indoors. 

TO  DRY-CLEAN  LACE  WAISTS 

Put  a  lace  waist  in  a  pillow  case,  cover  thickly  with  corn 
meal  and  flour  mixed,  leave  for  several  days,  take  out  of 
doors  and  shake  well  but  carefully  in  the  bag.  Then  re- 
move and  shake  free  from  the  flour  and  corn  meal. 

TO  WASH  LACE  WAISTS 

Shake  the  dust  from  a  washable  lace  waist,  immerse  it  in 
clean  warm  water,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  ammonia 
stirred  in,  then  lay  it  in  a  wash  bowl,  cover  it  with  strong 
Ivory  soap  suds  and  set  in  the  sun  for  three  hours.  Do 
not  rub,  but  dip  up  and  down,  rinse  well  in  several  warm 
waters,  starch  if  desired,  and  press  on  the  wrong  side, 
on  a  padded  ironing  board. 

TO  COLOR  LACES 

Proceed  in  same  manner  as  To  Color  Flowers. 

TO  CLEAN  VEILS 

Put  the  veil  into  a  glass  fruit  jar,  filled  with  wood  alco- 
hol, screw  the  top  tightly  on,  and  leave  for  about  ten 
minutes.  Then  pour  out  a  little  of  the  alcohol,  replace 
the  top  and  shake  the  jar  thoroughly.  Squeeze  the  veil 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       207 

carefully,  and  shake  partly  dry  (out  of  doors),  then  pin 
over  a  sheet  on  a  bed  or  table,  to  dry  in  shape.  Do  not 
use  alcohol  near  fire. 

TO  WASH  VEILS 

Dip  the  veil  into  a  warm  suds  of  Ivory  soap,  squeeze  it 
carefully  till  clean,  rinse  in  several  warm  waters,  and 
pin  on  a  sheet  on  a  bed  or  table  till  partly  dry,  then  press 
under  a  cloth  with  a  warm  iron. 

TO  FRESHEN  BLACK  VEILS 

Stir  a  dessertspoonful  of  ammonia  into  a  quart  fruit  jar 
nearly  filled  with  alcohol,  put  a  black  veil  in,  cover 
tightly,  and  shake  thoroughly.  Remove  from  the  jar, 
squeeze  carefully,  shake  till  nearly  dry,  pin  on  a  sheet  on 
a  bed  or  table,  and  leave  till  perfectly  dry. 

TO  FRESHEN  BLACK  LACE 

Spread  the  lace  on  a  flat  surface,  brush  carefully  with  a 
soft  brush,  and  shake  out  the  dust.  Mix  in  a  saucepan 
one  dessertspoonful  of  dry  tea,  one  pint  of  boiling  water 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  gum  arabic.  Simmer  slowly, 
stirring  till  the  gum  is  dissolved.  Strain  into  a  dish  and 
soak  the  lace  in  it  for  thirty  minutes.  If  the  lace  is  silk, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  alcohol  to  the  solution.  After  soak- 
ing, squeeze  the  lace  carefully,  then  put  it  in  folds  of  cloth 
and  squeeze.  Then  smooth  it  in  shape,  roll  carefully  in 
a  dry  cloth,  let  remain  an  hour  and  press  over  paper  on  a 
padded  ironing  board,  with  a  paper  on  top  of  the  lace 
which  must  be  pressed  on  the  wrong  side. 


208       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TO  STIFFEN  LACE 

Put  a  pinch  of  sugar  in  the  last  rinsing  water. 

TO  CLEAN  A  BLACK  WOOL  GOWN 

Sponge  with  ammonia  and  warm  water,  a  tablespoonful 
of  ammonia  to  a  quart  of  water.  Rub  powdered  French 
chalk  into  the  spots,  leave  for  half  a  day,  cover  the  chalk 
with  clean  white  blotting  paper  and  set  a  warm  iron  on  it. 
Then  sponge  again  with  ammonia  and  water,  and  press 
carefully  under  a  cloth,  on  the  wrong  side  where  possible. 

TO  WASH  A  BLACK  WOOL  GOWN 

Boil  one  ounce  of  soap  bark  solution  in  one  quart  of  water. 
When  thoroughly  steeped,  strain,  and  add  to  two  gallons 
of  hot  water.  Put  the  dress  in  this  and  dip  up  and  down  till 
clean.  Rinse  in  warm  water,  squeeze  carefully,  shake  out 
doors  and  let  drip  partially  dry.  Shake  again,  hang  up 
again  and  when  nearly  dry,  press  carefully  on  the  wrong 
side. 

TO  CLEAN  COVERT  CLOTH 

Mix  six  ounces  of  water,  one  ounce  of  sulphuric  ether  and 
one  ounce  of  ammonia.  Sponge  covert  cloth  with  the 
mixture,  then  sponge  with  warm  water,  cover  with  a  damp 
cloth  and  press  dry,  pressing  on  the  wrong  side  where 
possible. 

TO  CLEAN  SPOTS  FROM  CASHMERE 

Make  a  paste  of  Fuller's  earth  and  cold  water,  and  put  on 
the  spots  and  leave  for  several  hours,  then  brush. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       209 

TO  CLEAN  MACINTOSH  COATS 

Dissolve  a  handful  of  the  best  gray  lime  in  half  a  pail  of 
water,  and  apply  to  the  coat,  with  a  sponge.  Repeat,  after 
three  hours. 

TO  REMOVE  GLOSS  FROM  CLOTHING 

Rub  carefully  with  fine  emery  cloth.  After  using  emery 
cloth  on  very  smooth  surfaces,  rub  carefully  the  way  of 
the  nap  with  a  warm  silk  handkerchief. 

Sponging  with  hot  vinegar  is  good  for  removing  shine 
from  woolen  garments. 

Black  wool  may  be  sponged  with  borax  and  water,  then 
with  clear  water,  to  remove  gloss. 

TO  DRY-CLEAN  WHITE  CLOTH 

Rub  pipe  clay  into  the  soiled  places,  leave  for  a  few  hours, 
or  a  day  or  two,  then  brush  off  the  pipe  clay  with  a 
small  scrubbing  brush  kept  for  the  purpose. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  FUR  CLOTH 

Brush  the  cloth  the  way  of  the  nap,  shake,  dip  a  clean 
sponge  in  alcohol  and  wash  thoroughly  in  the  direction 
the  nap  goes.  Have  mixed  one  part  powdered  borax  and 
three  parts  powdered  starch,  and  sprinkle  on  while  the 
cloth  is  wet,  all  it  will  hold.  Leave  in  a  clean  place  for 
three  days,  then  brush  out  all  the  starch. 

TO  WASH  WHITE  SWEATERS  AND  SHAWLS 

Use  a  tablespoonful  of  Pearline  to  each  pailful  of  warm 


210       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

water.  Cover  the  garment  with  this,  press  down  with  the 
hands  to  squeeze  out  the  dirty  water.  Let  soak  thirty  min- 
utes, pour  off  the  water  and  repeat  till  clean.  Rinse  in 
several  clean  warm  waters,  but  do  not  lift  from  the  tub 
or  bucket  the  garment  is  washed  in.  Take  out  of  doors, 
pour  off  all  the  water  possible.  Squeeze  the  garment  into 
a  bunch  in  the  two  hands  and  dump  quickly  on  a  dry 
sheet  on  the  grass  in  the  hot  sun.  Spread  the  garment 
in  shape  and  let  dry.  It  will  be  perfect.  If  the  sun  is  not 
hot  enough  to  dry  it  on  the  grass,  the  garment  may  be 
spread  on  a  sheet  stretched  on  quilting  or  curtain  frames 
across  boxes  or  chairs. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


REMOVING  STAINS 

TO  REMOVE  BLOOD  STAINS  FROM  COTTON 

To  remove  blood  stains  from  cotton,  wet  the  spots  with 
cold  water,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  rub  lightly. 

Or  soak  the  material  in  salt  and  water,  afterwards  wash- 
ing in  soap  and  water. 

A  spot  on  a  starched  garment  may  be  removed  by  apply- 
ing a  thick  paste  of  corn  starch  and  cold  water. 

TO  REMOVE  BLOOD  STAINS  FROM  SILK 

Use  strong  cold  borax  water. 

TO  REMOVE  CHOCOLATE  AND  COCOA  STAINS 

Wash  first  in  cold,  then  pour  boiling  water  through  the 
stains. 

TO  REMOVE  COFFEE  STAINS 

Spread  the  stained  part  over  a  basin,  rub  in  powdered 
borax  and  pour  boiling  water  through,  and  let  soak. 

TO  REMOVE  FRUIT  STAINS 

Spread  the  stained  part  over  a  basin,  and  pour  boiling 
water  through,  let  soak  for  thirty  minutes  and  launder 
as  usual.  Let  dry  in  the  sun. 

Another  method  is  to  moisten  the  spots  with  camphor 
before  wetting  with  water,  then  launder  as  usual. 

211 


212       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 
TO  REMOVE  GRASS  STAINS 

Rub  the  stain  with  molasses,  laundering  as  usual,  after- 
ward. Another  way  is  to  saturate  the  spot  with  kero- 
sene, and  launder.  Alcohol  will  remove  grass  stains  in 
materials  that  will  not  launder. 

TO  REMOVE  CANDLE  GREASE 

Use  gasoline  on  a  soft  cloth. 

TO  REMOVE  AXLE  GREASE 

To  remove  axle  grease  on  washable  garments,  cover 
thickly  with  butter,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  wash  in 
gasoline,  and  then  in  soap  and  water. 

Grease  may  be  removed  from  overalls  by  putting  them  in 
cold  water,  with  plenty  of  soap,  and  as  soon  as  the  water 
boils,  add  about  three  tablespoonfuls  of  kerosene  and 
boil  a  few  minutes.  Do  not  pour  kerosene  from  a  kero- 
sene can  near  a  fire,  but  pour  it  from  a  can  into  a  dipper 
away  from  fire,  and  then  pour  from  the  dipper  quickly 
into  the  boiler. 

Chloroform  will  remove  grease  from  the  most  delicate 
fabrics,  but  it  is  apt  to  leave  a  mark  and  for  that  reason, 
ether  is  more  universally  used. 

French  chalk  put  around  the  edge  of  a  spot  before  clean- 
ing with  gasoline  on  cloth,  will  prevent  a  mark  from 
showing. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       213 

TO  REMOVE  INDELIBLE  INK  OR  PENCIL 
MARKS 

Dampen  the  spot  with  water,  and  rub  with  the  head  of  a 
common  match. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  STAINS 

Cover  the  ink  stain  on  any  fabric  with  Hydrogen  Perox- 
ide, lay  in  the  sun  and  air,  and  repeat  till  the  stain  dis- 
appears. 

Ink  may  be  removed  from  wash  goods  by  melting  a  piece 
of  tallow,  putting  the  spot  in  the  hot  tallow  and  washing 
as  usual.  On  colored  garments  that  will  not  wash,  drop 
melted  tallow  and  scrape  off  with  a  knife.  If  the  stain 
does  not  all  come  out,  put  a  clean  piece  of  blotting  paper 
over  it,  and  press  with  a  hot  iron. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  FROM  WOODEN  FLOORS 

Use  lemon  juice  and  salt,  without  soap. 

TO  REMOVE  RED  INK 

Use  ammonia  and  water. 

TO  REMOVE  IODINE  STAINS 

Cover  the  stain  on  cloth  as  soon  as  possible  with  a  paste 
of  corn  starch  and  water.  Change  for  fresh  paste  and 
repeat  till  stain  disappears. 

If  the  stain  is  on  wood,  apply  the  paste,  let  stand  a  few 
minutes,  and  rub  with  a  soft  cloth. 


214       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TO  REMOVE  IRON  RUST  FROM  WASH  GOODS 

Wet  the  spot  with  lemon  juice,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
hold  over  boiling  water  so  the  steam  can  go  through. 
If  very  badly  rusted,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar  to  three  gallons  of  water,  and  boil  the  stained 
garments  in  it  for  about  one  hour. 

Another  way  is  to  boil  pie  plant  in  enough  water  to  soak 
the  dress,  remove  the  pie  plant  and  soak  the  dress  in  the 
water  for  some  time,  then  wash  as  usual. 

TO  REMOVE  LEMON  JUICE  STAINS 

Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  ammonia  in  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  water,  and  sponge  lightly. 

TO  REMOVE  MACHINE  OIL 

Apply  kerosene  to  the  spots,  and  launder  as  usual. 

Cover  an  oil  spot  on  silk  with  block  magnesia  shaved  in 
fine  powder.  Leave  on  for  a  time,  shake  off,  and  repeat 
if  necessary. 

TO  REMOVE  MILDEW 

Cover  the  mildew  on  wash  goods  with  molasses,  then 

launder  as  usual. 

Or  soak  the  stains  in  buttermilk  several  hours,  then  wash. 

TO  REMOVE  MILK  STAINS 

Wash  first  in  cold,  then  hot  water. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       215 

Apply  absorbent  cotton  at  once  when  milk  is  spilled  on 

woolens. 

Alcohol  will  remove  milk  on  colored  garments. 


TO  REMOVE  MUD  STAINS  FROM  CLOTH 

Use  water  in  which  a  sliced  raw  potato  has  soaked. 

TO  REMOVE  PAINT 

Rub  turpentine  thoroughly  into  the  material.  If  the 
paint  is  very  dry,  mix  a  little  ammonia  with  the  turpen- 
tine. Keep  all  cleaning  fluids  away  from  fire. 

Ether  is  also  good  for  removing  paint. 

TO  REMOVE  PERSPIRATION  STAINS 

To  remove  perspiration  stains  from  white  waists,  soak 
the  stained  part  in  baking  soda  and  cold  water.  Repeat, 
if  necessary,  after  thirty  minutes. 

For  silk  waists,  sponge  the  spot  carefully  with  a  little 
cold  water,  and  cover  with  powdered  prepared  chalk. 
When  thoroughly  dry,  brush  carefully  with  a  soft  brush. 

To  remove  perspiration  stains  on  white  cotton  from  wear- 
ing black  silk,  boil  the  garment  in  one-half  gallon  of 
water  containing  a  handful  of  peach  leaves. 

TO  REMOVE  SCORCH  STAINS 

Apply  Peroxide  of  Hydrogen. 


216       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TO  REMOVE  TEA  STAINS 

Wash  in  cold,  and  then  pour  boiling  water  through  the 
spot.     Soak  an  obstinate  tea  stain  in  glycerine. 

TO  REMOVE  VARNISH  STAINS 

Saturate  in  gasoline,  then  wash  in  cold  water  with  naph- 
tha soap. 

TO  REMOVE  VINEGAR  STAINS 

Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  ammonia  in  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  water  and  sponge  lightly. 

TO  REMOVE  WINE  STAINS 

Moisten  a  red  wine  stain  in  cold  water  and  keep  covered 
with  salt,  and  the  wet  salt  will  absorb  the  stain. 

Wash  yellow  wine  stains  in  cold  water,  then  in  warm 
suds. 


FURS 

STORING  FURS 

Beat  the  furs  well  but  carefully,  out-of-doors  and  hang, 
if  convenient,  on  a  line  in  the  sun  for  an  hour  or  more. 
Then  lay  in  a  box  lined  with  newspapers,  putting  paper 
between  parts  of  the  furs  that  must  lap  over  one  another. 
Wrap  the  box  in  newspapers,  putting  a  heavy  express 
paper  over  all,  sticking  all  edges  of  this  last  paper  with 
mucilage. 


CLEANING  BLACK  LYNX 

Clean  it  with  a  stiff  brush  dipped  in  a  solution  of  am- 
monia and  water. 


TO  CLEAN  CHINCHILLA 

Make  a  paste  of  prepared  chalk  and  water,  put  on  the  fur 
with  a  wide  brush  and  let  dry.  Beat  the  fur  lightly  to 
remove  the  chalk. 

If  chinchilla  fur  gets  wet,  suspend  it  near  heat,  beating 
it  lightly  every  few  minutes.  Harder  furs  require  stiff 
brushes  to  smooth  them,  always  stroking  in  the  direction 
the  fur  lies. 

If  furs  get  wet,  absorb  all  possible  moist-ire  by  applying 
hot  towels,  before  hanging  to  dry. 

217 


218       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TO  CLEAN  ERMINE 

Smooth  starch  with  water  till  like  paste.  Dip  a  piece  of 
clean  white  flannel  in  this  paste,  rub  the  furs  well  with  it 
and  leave  near  fire  to  dry.  Then  brush  it  with  a  stiff 
brush,  and  shake  thoroughly  to  remove  the  flour. 

TO  CLEAN  MINK 
Brush  thoroughly  with  dry  corn  meal. 

TO  CLEAN  SEALSKIN 

Spread  sawdust  over  sealskin  and  spray  benzine  over  the 
sawdust.  When  nearly  dry,  brush  off  with  a  whisk  broom, 
then  brush  so  the  hair  stands  up,  and  let  it  air. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  FUR 

Lay  the  fur  flat  on  a  table,  take  a  clean  white  cloth  and 
rub  dampened  corn  meal  into  the  fur,  always  rubbing  the 
way  the  fur  lies.  Rub  carefully  till  the  fur  is  filled.  Shake, 
and  if  not  clean,  repeat  the  operation,  using  plenty  of 
dry  corn  meal  to  dry  it  at  the  last. 

White  fur  may  be  cleaned  by  rubbing  in  a  paste  of  corn 
meal  and  gasoline,  repeating,  if  the  fur  is  badly  soiled. 
Shake  well,  and  air.  Clean  all  things  out-of-doors  when 
using  gasoline. 


DISINFECTANTS,  SCENTS,  ETC. 

Essence  of  cinnamon  evaporating  in  a  shallow  dish  is  an 
agreeable  disinfectant. 

A  little  charcoal  mixed  with  water  thrown  in  a  sink  will 
deodorize  it. 

A  small  piece  of  charcoal  should  be  placed  inside  the 
refrigerator  to  insure  a  sweet  interior.  It  should  also 
be  placed  in  dark  closets.  Renew  every  week  or  two. 

Put  a  piece  of  camphor  gum  in  a  saucer  and  apply  a  hot 
poker. 

Put  a  few  pieces  of  dried  orange  peel  on  a  hot  stove,  or 
in  an  old  tin  can  or  shovel,  and  allow  it  to  smoulder. 

Broken  pieces  of  pumice  stone  may  be  saturated  with  oil 
of  lavender  to  create  a  pleasant  odor  in  a  room.  Or  a 
few  drops  of  the  oil  may  be  dropped  into  a  bowl  of  boil- 
ing water,  letting  it  stand  till  cold. 

Eau-de-cologne  may  be  burned  in  an  old  iron  spoon 
made  red  hot ;  or  it  may  be  poured  over  block  ammonia 
placed  in  an  earthen  jar. 

A  little  oil  of  sandalwood  dropped  on  a  hot  shovel  will 
impart  a  delightful  fragrance  to  a  room. 

The  odor  of  paint,  and  of  tobacco  smoke  in  a  room  may 
be  dispelled  by  setting  a  dish  of  cold  water  in  the  room. 

A  dish  of  ground  roasted  coffee  is  one  of  the  best  pre- 
servatives to  leave  in  cellar. 


219 


220       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

LIME  WATER 

Put  a  piece  of  unslacked  lime  the  size  of  an  egg  in  an 
earthen  vessel,  pouring  over  it  a  quart  of  cold  water. 
Allow  it  to  stand  a  few  hours,  then  filter  it  through  clean 
white  blotting  paper.  Pour  it  into  a  clean  bottle,  cork 
and  keep  in  a  cool  dark  place.  A  teaspoonful  of  lime 
water  in  a  cupful  of  milk  or  water,  almost  destroys  any 
deleterious  substance  there.  It  gives  no  unpleasant  taste. 

SCENTING  LINENS 

Underlinen  is  delightfully  scented  by  placing  broken 
orris  root  in  the  bureau  drawers  and  hanging  in  small 
muslin  bags  in  the  closets. 

A  few  drops  of  any  preferred  scent  put  on  broken  pumice 
stone  and  scattered  through  drawers  and  boxes,  gives  a 
delicious  perfume. 

Sachet  powder  mixed  with  powdered  orris  root  in  equal 
parts,  preserves  the  fragrance  much  longer  than  by  using 
sachet  powder  alone. 

Pack  away  bed  linen  with  leaves  of  dried  rosemary  or 
sweet  lavender. 

COLOGNE 

y2  oz.  bergamot  ^2  oz.  English  lavender 

*4  oz.  oil  of  lemon  yz  drachm  neroli 

1  quart  alcohol 

FILLING  A  ROSE  JAR  No.  1 

Gather  rose  leaves  in  June,  pack  in  a  covered  stone  jar 
with  alternate  layers  of  salt,  and  keep  in  a  dry  cool  place 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       221 

for  a  week  after  sufficient  leaves  are  packed.  Then  turn 
ou\  on  a  paper  spread  on  a  table,  and  mix  very  thoroughly. 
Add  the  following  ingredients,  mix  well  and  put  in  the 
jar  for  six  weeks  before  filling  the  rose  jars.  Leave  rose 
jars  uncovered  for  a  short  time  only,  as  the  perfume  is 
easily  exhausted. 

%  oz.  powdered  violet  %  teaspoonful  mace 

yz  oz.  powdered  rose  ^  teaspoonful  cloves 

yz  oz.  powdered  heliotrope  54  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  oz.  powdered  orris  root  2  drachms  pure  alcohol 

4  drops  oil  of  roses  20  drops  oil  of  eucalyptus 

10  drops  oil  of  neroli  10  drops  oil  of  bergamot 
20  drops  oil  of  lavender 

FILLING  ROSE  JAR  No.  2 

Gather  rose  leaves  in  June  and  put  a  layer  in  a  covered 
stone  jar,  then  add  a  layer  of  salt;  spread  thickly  over 
this  stick  cinnamon  and  whole  cloves ;  pour  over  these  a 
pint  of  alcohol,  cover  and  allow  to  remain  one  week,  then 
mix  and  fill  into  rose  jar. 


PESTS  OF  VARIOUS  KINDS 

ANTS 

J4  cupful  water  1  teaspoonful  sugar 

1  teaspoonful  tartar  emetic 

Mix  and  place  where  ants  congregate. 

Wash  a  large  sponge,  press  dry,  then  sprinkle  with  fine 
sugar  and  place  where  ants  are  thick.  They  will  fill  the 
sponge,  which  may  be  dropped  in  boiling  water,  squeezed 
out,  and  placed  ready  for  them  again. 

A  small  cloth  saturated  with  oil  of  sassafras  will  cause 
ants  to  leave. 

RED  ANTS 

Several  ways  of  getting  rid  of  red  ants  are  good.  Use 
whichever  is  easiest  for  you  in  your  locality. 

The  sponge  remedy  given  for  ants  is  good. 

1  teaspoonful  paregoric  with  one-fourth  cupful  water  is 
effective  when  sprinkled  around. 

Sugar  well  mixed  with  pulverized  plaster  of  paris 
sprinkled  about  will  drive  them  away. 

Sprigs  of  fresh  parsley  laid  around  food  will  cause  ants 
to  disappear. 

RATS  AND  MICE 

Put  sprays  of  peppermint  or  peppermint  essence  where 
mice  have  been,  and  they  will  not  return. 

222 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       223 

Or  stuff  pieces  of  sponge  in  holes  where  they  enter. 

Sprinkle  sulphur  about  house  and  barn  where  rats  come 
in,  and  they  will  be  driven  away. 

To  stuff  the  holes  where  they  enter  with  soap  sprinkled 
with  cayenne  pepper,  will  keep  them  out. 

FLIES 

Mix  one-half  teaspoonful  black  pepper  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar  in  one  teaspoonful  cream  and  put  on  a  plate, 
and  flies  will  disappear. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  formaldehyde  in.  two  cupfuls  of  water 
poured  into  shallow  dishes  and  set  around  tables  where 
flies  are  troublesome,  will  destroy  them. 

A  little  bit  of  sassafras  on  a  small  cloth  laid  in  an  old 
baking  powder  or  other  can  cover,  will  drive  flies  away. 

Flies  dislike  mignonette,  and  they  despise  hop  vines. 

ROACHES 

Cucumber  peel  scattered  around  the  haunts  of  roaches 
and  left  over  night,  gets  rid  of  the  bugs. 

Mix  a  dough  of  corn  meal  and  strong  borax  solution, 
shape  into  little  cakes  and  place  on  pantry  shelves  to  feed 
roaches  so  they  will  refuse  to  return. 

A  weak  solution  of  turpentine  might  be  poured  down 
water  pipes  once  a  week  to  keep  water  bugs  away. 

SPARROWS 

A  little  molasses  put  on  their  roosting  places  causes  them 
to  leave. 


224   PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MOTHS 

Blotting  paper  saturated  with  turpentine  placed  where 
moths  are  apt  to  work,  will  prevent  their  havoc. 

Sassafras  bark  scattered  among  woolens  and  furs  is  a 
preventive  of  moths. 

Saturate  an  old  sheet  with  formaldehyde  and  hang  in  the 
closet  containing  moths,  first  stopping  all  possible  cracks 
and  keyhole,  and  leaving  there  for  a  day. 

If  moths  get  into  carpets,  draperies  and  furniture,  use  the 
just  given  formaldehyde  cure. 

Where  moths  are  apt  to  injure  carpets,  boil  a  few  camphor 
balls  in  water  and  sweep  with  a  clean  broom,  dipping 
frequently  in  the  mixture. 

Or  scatter  powdered  borax  plentifully  about. 

An  effective,  quick  way  to  rid  carpets  and  furniture  of 
moths,  is  to  use  an  oil  atomizer  and  spray  them  with  one 
teaspoonful  carbolic  acid,  mixed  in  one  quart  benzine. 

SCENT  BAGS  TO  HANG  IN  CLOSETS 

*/4  oz.  ground  cloves  */2  Ib.  lavender  flowers 

54  oz.  caraway  seed  y2  oz.  dried  thyme 

1  oz.  dry  salt  yz  oz.  dried  mint 

Mix  well  and  put  in  small  bags  in  closets  and  among 
clothes.  This  mixture  is  said  to  be  a  preventive  of  moths. 


FLOWERS,  PLANTS  AND  GREEN 
THINGS 

Add  a  little  salt,  saltpeter  or  soda  to  the  water  contain- 
ing cut  flowers,  or  place  them  in  cold  soap  suds,  to  aid 
in  their  preservation. 

Another  way  is  to  fill  a  vase  nearly  full  of  fresh  bits  of 
charcoal,  adding  water  till  the  vase  is  nearly  full  of  water, 
place  flowers  in  it,  and  change  water  daily. 
Cut  flowers  with  a  sharp  knife  instead  of  scissors,  if  you 
wish  them  to  keep  for  a  longer  time. 

NASTURTIUMS 

After  picking,  put  them  in  rather  hot  water  and  the  stems 
soon  become  stiff,  so  the  blooms  will  stay  up. 
By  tying  a  soft  thread  around  buds,  they  may  be  kept 
from  opening  for  several  days. 

A  FLOWER  CENTER  PIECE 

Cover  any  size  embroidery  hoop  with  mosquito  netting, 
placing  over  a  low  bowl,  and  stick  short  stemmed  flowers 
through  it. 

A  GROWING  CENTER  PIECE 

Plant  a  five  cent  package  of  old  fashioned  portulaca  seed 
in  your  fern  dish  for  beautiful  greenery. 

A  flower  pot  may  be  covered  with  a  straw  sleeve  pro- 
tector or  made  attractive  by  decorating  in  green  oil  paints 
in  leaf  designs. 

225 


226       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

GROWING  GREENS 

Mix  mustard  and  turnip  seed  and  sow  thickly  in  odd  spots 
in  garden  or  yard.  They  grow  rapidly,  can  be  cut  off 
and  will  grow  again.  Horse  radish  is  also  good  to  have 
growing. 

MINT 

Grow  fresh  mint  for  cooking,  in  less  than  a  week  in  a  glass 
jar  of  water.  Do  not  change,  but  add  to  the  water  each 
day  or  two,  and  keep  the  sprays  short  by  pinching  off  the 
tops. 

VINES 

Vines  should  be  trained  on  a  strong  black  thread  in  a 
window  garden. 

A  sweet  potato,  not  kiln  dried,  placed  in  a  bowl  contain- 
ing a  few  inches  of  water,  will  grow  beautiful  greens. 

TO  HASTEN  GROWTH 

Thoroughly  dissolve  one  tablespoonful  epsom  salts  in  one 
half  gallon  cool  water,  and  pour  over  plant  roots. 

FLOWERS  FOR  WINTER 

Save  the  most  perfect  buds  of  the  desired  flowers,  cut 
with  a  three  inch  stem  and  cover  the  end  immediately  with 
sealing  wax.  When  they  have  shrunken  some,  wrap  each 
one  in  a  piece  of  paper  and  keep  in  a  dry  box.  When 
ready  for  them  in  winter,  take  them  at  night,  cut  off  the 
ends,  and  place  in  water  containing  a  little  niter  of  salt. 
The  following  day  the  flowers  will  bloom  as  though  just 
picked. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       227 

PRESERVING  FOR  DECORATION 

Gather  red  berries  like  pods  of  roses,  and  bright  red 
berries  and  dip  in  melted  paraffin  for  decorating  in  winter. 

HYACINTHS 

Plant  four  or  five  bulbs  in  October  in  a  six  inch  pot,  and 
place  in  the  cellar  till  six  weeks  before  Christmas,  then 
bring  gradually  to  the  light.  If  about  to  bloom  too  soon, 
put  in  a  darker  cooler  place ;  if  too  slow,  put  in  a  warmer 
lighter  place. 

TO  KEEP  CYCLAMEN  BLOOMING 

Do  not  cast  it  aside  after  repeated  blooming,  but  in  the 
spring,  dig  a  hole  in  the  ground,  set  the  pot  in  and  water 
as  usual.  In  the  fall,  place  it  in  a  sunny  window,  keep 
moist  with  warm  water  and  it  will  bloom  like  new. 

TO  ROOT  OLEANDERS 

Cut  off  a  strong  slip,  cut  a  slot  in  the  end  and  fill  full  of 
cotton,  wrapping  paper  around  it  so  it  will  not  touch  the 
bottle,  and  put  it  in  a  bottle  of  water  in  a  dark  place  for 
a  week.  It  should  have  plenty  of  roots  by  that  time, 
and  is  ready  to  plant  carefully  in  rich  soil. 

Other  woody  plants  may  be  rooted  in  this  way. 

SLIPPING  GERANIUMS 

Insert  an  oat  or  a  grain  of  rye  in  the  bottom  of  the  slip, 
put  in  a  pot,  keep  moist,  and  the  result  is  wonderful. 


228   PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

FERNS  AND  PALMS 

Do  not  place  ferns  on  windows  or  in  a  draft. 

Moisten  the  soil  around  them  each  week  with  not  too 
strong  cold  tea. 

When  the  fronds  droop,  the  fern  is  usually  root-bound. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  or  castor  oil  poured  on  the 
roots  of  large  ferns  and  palms  once  a  month,  does 
wonders.  Use  less  quantities  for  smaller  plants. 

PALMS 

Keep  palms  washed  clean  with  luke  warm  water  and 
milk  and  give  them  from  one  to  two  tablespoonfuls  olive 
or  castor  oil,  according  to  their  size,  once  a  month. 

A  fresh  green  pineapple  top  may  be  planted  and  grown 
into  a  fine  palm. 

RUBBER  PLANTS 

Give  them  oil  as  advised  for  ferns  and  palms.  If  the 
leaves  become  spotted,  turn  yellow  and  drop,  give  the 
roots  some  sweet  skim  milk  once  or  twice  each  week. 

FROZEN  POTTED  PLANTS 

Turn  boxes  or  other  covers  immediately  over  them, 
covering  them  with  blankets,  papers,  or  anything  to  en- 
tirely keep  out  light;  or  set  them  in  a  perfectly  dark 
closet  to  thaw  naturally,  without  light.  Bulbs  frozen  in 
water  should  be  set  away  from  a  ray  of  light  and  brought 
out  on  a  milder  day. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK   22!) 

TO  KILL  BURDOCKS 

Cut  off  close  to  the  ground  and  drop  a  few  drops  of  gaso- 
line from  an  old  kerosene  can  on  the  roots. 

PLANT  BUGS 

One  teaspoonful  ammonia  to  one  quart  warm  water  on 
roots  of  plants  destroys  worms  and  bugs. 

To  rid  plants  of  lice,  spray  with  two  tablespoonfuls  oil  of 
sassafras  well  stirred  in  one  quart  of  lukewarm  water. 

TO  SHARPEN  LAWN  MOWERS 

Spread  a  mixture  of  emery  dust  and  black  oil  as  thick  as 
molasses,  on  the  concave  cutter  bar  beneath  the  knives. 
Remove  the  cast  head  covering  on  the  outside  of  one 
wheel  and  place  a  crank  on  the  end  of  the  axle,  and  turn 
backward.  This  turns  the  knife  cylinder  rapidly  and 
draws  the  knife  edges  through  the  emery  and  oil.  The 
kitchen  range  shaker  or  clothes  wringer  crank  may  be 
utilized  for  the  crank. 


BOTTLES,  GLASS  UTENSILS, 
MIRRORS,  ETC. 

TO  CLEAN  BOTTLES 

Wash  first  in  cold  water,  then  in  hot  water  with  baking 
soda. 

Cut  up  raw  potato  parings  very  finely,  fill  the  bottle  with 
them,  cover  with  warm  water  and  let  stand  twenty  four 
hours.  Remove  a  few  of  the  parings,  shake  the  bottle 
thoroughly,  turn  all  out,  and  wash  the  bottle.  It  should 
be  perfectly  clean. 

Crush  egg  shells  and  put  in  a  bottle  with  clear  cold  water. 
Shake  thoroughly,  empty,  and  rinse  well. 

Put  a  piece  of  soap  and  a  handful  of  small  cinders  in  a 
bottle  with  hot  water,  shake  thoroughly,  rinse  well,  and 
drain. 

TO  CUT  A  BOTTLE  No.  1 

Wind  cotton  twine  two  or  three  times  around  the  bottle 
just  below  where  it  is  to  be  cut.  Drop  kerosene  or  alcohol 
very  slowly  on  the  cord  until  it  is  saturated,  then  ignite 
it  with  a  match.  When  the  flame  has  nearly  died  out, 
pour  on  a  little  cold  water,  and  the  bottle  separates 
smoothly. 

TO  CUT  A  BOTTLE  No.  2 

To  file,  drill,  or  saw  glass  with  a  hack  saw,  keep  the  tool 
edge  wet  with  camphor  dissolved  in  turpentine. 

230 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK      231 

TO  CUT  GLASS 

Fill  a  deep  pan  with  water,  put  the  hands,  glass  and  scis- 
sors completely  under  water  and  hold  them  there  while 
cutting  any  desired  shape  in  glass. 

REMOVING  STOPPERS  FROM  BOTTLES 

Wrap  the  stopper  round  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  boiling 
water.  If  the  bottle  contains  smelling  salts,  put  it  into 
vinegar  and  water.  Leave  it  a  short  time  in  a  warm 
place,  then  stand  it  in  hot  water.  Then  hold  it  in  one 
hand  and  tap  it  on  first  one  side  and  then  the  other  with 
a  piece  of  wood,  with  an  upward  stroke. 

Another  way  is  to  put  a  few  drops  of  olive  oil  around  the 
glass  stopper,  leave  for  an  hour  or  more,  and  if  it  refuses 
to  be  moved,  place  the  whole  bottle  in  warm  water  and 
tap  the  stopper  carefully  on  each  side. 

TO  REMOVE  A  CORK  FROM  BOTTLE 

Tie  a  nail  on  the  loop  of  a  string  so  it  will  not  float,  get 
the  string  under  the  cork  and  pull  it  out. 

To  keep  a  cork  from  sticking  in  a  glue  bottle,  rub  it  with 
vaseline. 

TO  MAKE  A  CORK  SMALLER 

Cut  two  wedge  shaped  pieces  out  of  it  at  right  angles 
across  the  small  end,  and  it  will  fit  tightly. 

TO  KEEP  GAS  GLOBES  FROM  BREAKING 

Keep  a  paper  clip  over  the  edge  of  the  globe. 


232       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

POURING  HOT  LIQUIDS  IN  GLASSES 

Put  a  silver  spoon  in  a  glass  to  prevent  its  breaking,  when 
hot  liquid  is  poured  in. 

WHEN  GLASSES  STICK  TOGETHER 

To  separate  glasses  that  stick  together,  set  the  lower 
glass  in  warm  water  and  fill  the  upper  with  cold  water. 

WASHING  GLASS 

Wash  cut  glass  in  lukewarm  water  and  brush  with  a 
bristle  brush. 

A  little  soda  in  the  water  is  good. 

Use  small  turkish  towels  for  drying  glass  and  silver,  or 
fine  linen  ones. 

MIRRORS 

To  clean  mirrors,  use  a  soft  cloth  dipped  in  alcohol,  and 
polish  with  a  clean  dry  cloth. 

Stains  may  be  removed  from  mirrors  by  using  a  soft  cloth 
dipped  in  spirits  of  camphor,  polishing  afterwards. 

Never  allow  the  sun  to  shine  on  a  mirror,  as  it  softens 
the  backing,  making  the  glass  cloudy. 

MENDING  CHINA 
Use  common  white  lead  for  mending  china  and  glass. 

Apply  the  paint  to  the  edges  with  a  small  stick,  place 
rubber  bands  or  twine  around  it  to  hold  the  parts  to- 
gether, and  set  away  to  become  thoroughly  hardened. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       233 

It  is  very  much  better,  however,  to  immediately  throw 
out  a  piece  of  broken  china,  as  all  the  mending  in  the 
world  never  makes  it  perfect,  and  there  can  be  no  satis- 
faction in  having  an  imperfect  piece  of  china  that  is  liable 
at  any  time  to  fall  apart  and  break  several  other  pieces. 

CEMENT  FOR  CHINA  AND  GLASS 

Use  common  white  lead. 

CEMENT  FOR  ENAMEL  WARE 

Mix  equal  parts  of  finely  sifted  coal  ashes,  sifted  table 
salt,  and  soft  putty.  Fill  the  hole  with  this  mixture  and 
set  the  dish  on  the  fire  with  a  little  water  in  it  till  the 
cement  hardens. 

Cement  for  joining  leather,  wood,  and  paper  to  metal 
mix  one  teaspoonful  of  glycerine  with  a  gill  of  blue. 

FOR  MENDING  RUBBER  ARTICLES 

Try  a  piece  of  adhesive  plaster  where  it  is  practicable. 

CANDLES,  LAMPS,  ETC. 

Keep  candles  in  the  refrigerator  several  hours,  to  harden 
them,  to  prevent  drooping  when  used  for  decorations. 

Fancy  candles  may  be  washed  with  a  soft  brush,  with 
soap  and  water. 

Put  fine  salt  on  a  lighted  candle  to  make  it  last. 
Save  all  small  candle  ends  to  use  in  sealing  fruit  jars. 


234       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

When  carrying  a  candle  in  a  draft,  fasten  it  by  its  melted 
grease  in  a  tumbler,  using  a  short  candle. 

FILLING  OIL  LAMPS,  ETC. 

Fill  oil  lamps  with  a  funnel  kept  for  the  purpose. 
Boil  the  burners  occasionally  in  soda  water. 

Place  a  small  lump  of  camphoi  in  the  oil  to  brighten  lamp- 
light. 

If  a  lamp  gets  overturned,  never  pour  water  on  it,  but  use 
earth,  flour  or  sand. 

LAMP  WICKS 

Soak  a  new  lampwick  in  vinegar  and  dry  perfectly  before 
using,  to  prevent  it  smelling  badly. 

When  a  lampwick  is  too  large,  do  not  cut  down  the  side, 
but  draw  several  threads  from  the  middle  of  the  wick. 

Put  a  new  wick  in  a  lamp  through  the  top  instead  of  the 
bottom  of  the  burner. 

Dip  one  inch  of  the  end  of  a  wick  in  starch  and  iron 
perfectly  dry,  to  insert  it  easily  in  a  burner. 

Sew  a  piece  of  white  flannel  to  the  bottom  of  large  lamp 
wicks  and  they  may  be  used  a  much  longer  time. 

TO  CLEAN  LAMP  CHIMNEYS 

Wipe  chimney  with  a  cloth  moistened  with  vinegar,  then 
polish. 

A  few  drops  of  alcohol  rubbed  on  the  inside  of  a  lamp 
chimney  will  remove  all  the  black. 


PAPER  AND  BOOKS 

TO  MAKE  WATERPROOF  PAPER 

Mix  sulphuric  acid  of  an  exact  strength  with  one  half 
its  weight  of  water.  A  sheet  of  common  paper  placed  in 
this  solution  becomes  hard  and  fibrous,  yet  its  weight 
is  not  increased,  and  it  makes  a  better  parchment  for 
writing  purposes  than  animal  parchment. 

TO  RESTORE  FADED  WRITING 

Moisten  the  paper  with  water,  then  brush  over  with  a 
solution  of  hydric-ammonia. 

TO  PREVENT  MOULD  ON  BOOKS 

Wipe  the  shelves  with  oil  of  cedar. 

TO   CLEAN   SOILED    BOOKS 

Use  two  parts  of  water  to  one  part  of  vinegar,  rub  over 
the  soiled  pages,  and  leave  the  book  open  to  dry. 

Book  covers  soiled  by  grease  may  be  cleaned  by  putting 
pipe  clay  or  French  chalk  over  the  spots,  then  applying 
a  warm  iron. 

To  clean  the  edges  (where  they  are  not  gilt  edges)  close 
the  book  tightly  and  erase  with  an  ink  eraser. 

COOK  BOOK  COVERS 

Cook  books  should  be  covered  with  oil  cloth  or  waxed 
paper. 

335 


236       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TO  MAKE  LIBRARY  PASTE 

\Y2  pints  rain  water  1  oz.  gum  tragacanth 

a  few  drops  of  essential  oil 

Put  in  jars  and  be  sure  to  keep  tightly  covered,  and  it  is 
always  ready  for  use. 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


COAL,  STOVES,  FURNACES,  ETC. 

TO  PREVENT  SOOT  IN  CHIMNEYS 

Burn  raw  potato  parings  in  the  stove,  or  pieces  of  zinc 
to  prevent  having  soot  accumulate. 

TO  SEE  OBSTRUCTIONS  IN  A  CHIMNEY 

Remove  the  soot-pan,  place  a  hand  mirror  in  the  opening, 
and  you  can  see  to  the  top  unless  obstructed. 

Vinegar  will  remove  lime  spots  and  soot  from  an  open 
chimney. 

TO  START  A  FIRE 

Keep  ashes  in  an  old  tin  can  and  pour  over  kerosene 
enough  to  soak  them.  Have  the  grate  clean  and  wood 
laid  on  it  ready  to  light.  Place  two  spoonfuls  of  ashes 
on  the  wood,  then  lay  a  few  sticks  over  the  ashes,  have 
dampers  open,  and  light  the  ashes.  Keep  the  can  of  ashes 
outside,  away  from  fire  and  your  kindling  is  always  ready. 
A  brick  may  be  soaked  in  kerosene  a  short  time  and  laid 
in  a  grate  and  lighted  to  start  either  coal  or  wood.  When 
the  kerosene  is  burned  out  and  the  brick  cold,  it  may  be 
soaked  again. 

To  start  a  fire  in  the  grate,  first  take  a  newspaper  and  in- 
sert in  opening  just  above  grate,  then  light  paper;  this 
will  warm  up  the  chimney  flue  and  prevent  smoke  from 

237 


338       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

coming  into  room  after  lighting  fire.  This  also  applies 
in  starting  hard  and  soft  coal  burners. 

To  free  a  grate  from  cinders,  dump  clam  or  oyster  shells 
into  the  grate. 

TO  KEEP  A  FIRE 

Soak  two  or  three  newspapers  in  clean  cold  water,  squeeze 
out  the  water,  and  make  the  papers  into  good  sized  balls. 
Pack  these  tightly  together  on  top  of  the  red  hot  coal  fire, 
and  it  will  keep  for  hours. 

When  a  quick  fire  is  needed ,  tear  a  newspaper  into 
quarters  without  unfolding,  twist  each  one  tightly,  lay 
closely  in  the  stove,  and  light  one  end. 

Throw  on  a  few  pieces  of  coal  and  sprinkle  table  salt 
over  them.  At  the  end  of  several  hours,  there  will  be  a 
good  fire. 

TO  WATERPROOF  MATCHES 

Dip  them  in  very  hot  melted  paraffin  and  when  eool,  they 
are  ready  for  use. 

TO  CLEAN  DISCOLORED  FIREPLACE  BRICK 

Rub  into  the  bricks  as  much  linseed  oil  as  they  will 
absorb,  and  repeat  till  they  are  clear. 

BLACKING  A  STOVE 

Use  a  paint  brush  to  apply  the  blacking.  Just  before 
using  stove  polish,  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  gasoline  with 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       239 

a  saucer  of  polish.  Be  sure  the  stove  is  cold  and  never 
use  gasoline  around  heat. 

Turpentine  is  also  good  to  use  with  polish. 

Clean  the  steel  parts  with  boiled  linseed  oil  on  a  woolen 
cloth,  and  clean  the  nickle  with  whiting  and  ammonia. 

If  a  stove  is  washed,  then  rubbed  well  with  a  few  drops 
of  linseed  oil  on  a  woolen  cloth,  it  will  never  need  polish- 
ing. 

IN  THE  OVEN 

Paint  the  inside  of  the  oven  with  aluminum  paint  and  it 
is  a  pleasure  to  be  able  to  see  every  article  in  it. 

A  little  salt  sprinkled  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  will  pre- 
vent cakes  burning. 

When  possible  during  the  winter  months,  do  the  baking 
in  the  furnace. 

When  the  hinges  on  the  oven  door  are  worn  and  the 
doors  fail  to  catch,  put  washers  of  iron  on  the  bolt. 

TO  CUT  STOVE  PIPE 

Cut  stove  pipe  easily  with  a  can  opener. 

GAS  STOVES 

Wash  them  each  time  they  are  used,  and  wash  with  kero- 
sene once  each  week. 

Keep  two  pieces  of  sheet  iron  on  top  of  a  gas  stove,  large 
enough  to  cover  it.  Enough  heat  will  be  diffused  from 


240       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

one  or  two  burners  to  cook  a  whole  meal.  It  will  also 
keep  dishes  hot. 

On  top  of  the  gas  stove  under  the  burners,  is  a  good 
place  to  spread  a  paper  to  catch  falling  particles. 

TO  CLEAN  ASBESTOS  GAS  LOGS 

To  clean  the  asbestos  gas  log  when  it  becomes  blackened, 
sprinkle  it  with  salt,  light  the  gas,  and  the  asbestos  turns 
white. 

TO  CLEAN  A  GAS  MANTLE 

When  smoke  has  blackened  a  gas  mantle,  sprinkle  salt 
from  a  salt  shaker  on  it,  slowly,  light  the  gas  and  let  the 
salt  burn  off  a  little  at  a  time. 

TO  WHITEN  A  HEARTH 

Melt  a  little  size  in  a  jar  with  a  quart  of  boiling  water. 
When  the  size  is  melted,  mix  in  the  same  quantity  of 
whiting  with  just  a  bit  of  washing-blue.  Wash  the  hearth, 
then  paint  with  the  mixture.  Clean  it  by  wiping  with  a 
cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  When  the  whiting  needs 
renewing,  wash  the  hearthstone  in  hot  water,  and  apply 
the  mixture.  Add  more  water  when  the  mixture  requires. 

PACKING  THE  STOVE  AWAY 

Rub  a  little  oil,  vaseline  or  kerosene  over  a  stove  before 
packing  it  away,  to  prevent  rusting. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       241 

ABOUT  PLUMBING 

Slip  a  piece  of  garden  hose  about  an  inch  long  over  the 
end  of  the  faucets  in  the  kitchen  sink  to  prevent  breaking 
dishes  on  the  faucets. 

TO  PREVENT  PIPES  FREEZING 

After  water  is  shut  off,  always  sprinkle  a  good  handful 
of  coarse  salt  over  the  holes  in  the  sink  with  just  enough 
water  to  carry  it  to  the  curve  of  the  waste  pipe.  Treat 
all  similar  curves  in  the  same  manner. 

TO  THAW  FROZEN  PIPES 

Use  a  hot  water  bottle. 

When  pipes  become  frozen  in  the  yard,  have  an  electrician 
connect  a  transformer  of  suitable  size  into  circuit ;  one 
lead  of  the  secondary  is  connected  to  the  water  valve  or 
pipe  near  the  curb  and  the  other  lead  is  connected  to  the 
water  piping  in  the  house.  The  current  is  then  turned 
on,  and  the  heat  developed  by  the  resistance  of  the  water 
pipe  to  the  flow  of  the  electric  current  soon  thaws  the 
pipe. 

A  pipe-thawing  electrical  outfit  is  now  manufactured. 


CLEANING  METALS,  ETC. 

TO  CLEAN  ALUMINUM  KETTLES 

Boil  rhubarb  peelings  in  them  for  thirty  minutes. 

TO  CLEAN  BRASS 

Dip  half  a  lemon  in  fine  salt  and  rub  over  the  stains,  wipe 
with  a  soft  cloth,  and  polish  with  a  woolen  cloth. 

After  cleaning  brass,  polish  with  equal  parts  of  paraffin 
and  naphtha  with  enough  rottenstone  to  make  a  good 
paste.  Then  polish  with  a  soft  dry  cloth. 

Ammonia  in  a  little  water  will  remove  verdigris  from 
brass. 

Drop  rusty  curtain  pins  into  ammonia  water  and  let 
them  remain  for  ten  minutes,  then  dry  on  soft  cloth. 

TO  CLEAN  BRONZE 

Use  salt  and  vinegar  (or  lemon  juice),  then  rinse  in  clear 
water  and  polish  with  a  clean  woolen  cloth. 

TO  CLEAN  COPPER 

Proceed  as  in  To  Clean  Brass. 

TO  CLEAN  ENAMELED  WARE 
Use  salt  and  vinegar. 

Or,  put  soda  in  the  enameled  lined  vessel,  and  let  come 
to  a  boil. 

242' 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       243 

TO  CLEAN  GOLD 

Dip  in  a  solution  of  one  teaspoonful  of  ammonia  to  one 
quart  of  water,  rinse  in  clear  warm  water,  and  dry  on  soft 
cloth. 

TO  PRESERVE  POLISHED  IRON  WORK 

Add  olive  oil  to  copal  varnish  till  the  mixture  is  rather 
greasy,  then  mix  in  as  much  turpentine  as  there  is  var- 
nish and  apply. 

TO  CLEAN  NICKEL 

Use  whiting  and  ammonia. 

TO  CLEAN  PEWTER 

Wash  with  hot  water,  rub  with  fine  sand,  dry  and  polish 
with  leather. 

TO  CLEAN  SILVER 

Apply  kerosene  with  a  brush  or  soft  cloth,  rinse  in  boil- 
ing water  and  dry  with  soft  towels. 

Dissolve  one-fourth  cupful  sal-soda  in  one  gallon  of  water, 
heat  to  boiling,  immerse  the  silver,  being  sure  it  is  en- 
tirely covered  in  water,  let  stand  five  minutes,  rinse,  and 
wipe  dry. 

Another  method  is,  boil  the  silver  in  an  aluminum  kettle 
for  thirty  minutes,  and  dry  with  a  soft  towel. 

TO  REMOVE  EGG  STAIN  FROM  SILVER 

Use  wet  salt. 


244       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TO  KEEP  SILVER  UNTARNISHED 

Sprinkle  a  few  pieces  of  camphor  gum  in  boxes  or  drawers 
where  it  is  kept. 

TO  CLEAN  STEEL 

Emery  powder  and  oil  nabbed  to  a  paste  is  good  to  clean 
steel.  After  cleaning,  polish  with  an  oiled  rag,  and  then 
with  a  soft  dry  cloth. 

TO  REMOVE  RUST  FROM  STEEL 

Use  plenty  of  kerosene.  If  possible,  lay  on  or  wrap 
about  the  rusted  parts,  cloths  soaked  in  kerosene,  leaving 
them  for  a  day  or  two.  Then  apply  salt  wet  in  hot  vine- 
gar, or  scour  with  brick  dust.  Rinse  in  hot  water  and 
dry  with  a  soft  woolen  cloth,  finishing  with  an  oil  rub 
and  polish  with  a  soft  cloth. 

TO  CLEAN  TIN 

Rub  with  a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  soda. 

TO  CLEAN  ZINC 

Clean  with  kerosene  on  a  soft  cloth,  and  wash  in  boiling 
water. 


Dampen  a  flannel  cloth  in  warm  water,  dip  in  whiting 
and  apply  to  the  wood.  Rinse  in  clear  warm  water,  and 
dry  with  a  soft  cloth. 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       245 

TO  CLEAN  OILED  WOODWORK 

Use  cold  tea  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  wipe  with  a  dry  cloth. 

TO  CLEAN  PAINTED  WOODWORK 

Use  one  dessertspoonful  of  soda  to  one  bucketful  of  warm 
water.  Wash,  and  wipe  with  a  dry,  clean,  soft  cloth. 

Kerosene  is  good  to  clean  any  painted  or  polished  wood- 
work. Use  one  tablespoonful  to  a  bucketful  of  warm 
water. 

Rub  with  a  lemon,  all  marks  left  by  scratching 
matches  on  painted  wood. 

TO  CLEAN  WINDOWS 

Use  a  cloth  moistened  in  denatured  alcohol,  and  polish 
immediately  with  a  soft  dry  cloth. 

Or  a  tablespoonful  of  kerosene  to  a  gallon  of  warm  water. 

TO  CLEAN  OLD  PAINT  BRUSHES 

To  clean  a  brush  that  is  dried  and  stiff  from  standing  in 
paint  or  varnish,  dip  it  repeatedly  in  boiling  vinegar  till 
it  softens.  Then  wash  it  in  warm  soap  suds,  rinse  in 
warm  water,  and  dry. 

TO  POLISH   FURNITURE 

Mix  equal  parts  of  olive  oil,  vinegar  and  turpentine.  Apply 
with  a  soft  cloth  and  rub  dry  with  a  soft  clean  flannel. 


246       PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

DUST  CLOTHS 

Dip  a  soft  piece  of  cheese  cloth  about  a  yard  square  in 
kerosene,  do  not  wring  very  dry,  but  hang  out  of  doors 
for  twenty  four  hours  before  using. 

Old  pieces  of  soft  flannel  soaked  in  paraffin  all  night, 
wrung  out  as  dry  as  possible  and  hung  out  of  doors  about 
twenty  four  hours,  make  nice  furniture  polishers  and 
cleaners. 


CLEANING  BRIC-A-BRAC,  ETC. 

TO  CLEAN  ALABASTER  ORNAMENTS 

Apply  a  paste  made  of  quick  lime  and  water,  leave  on  a 
few  days,  and  wash  off  with  warm  water  and  soap. 

TO  CLEAN  IVORY 

Brush  with  a  soft  tooth  brush  in  lukewarm  water.  Use 
alcohol  if  the  ivory  is  discolored  and  dry  in  the  sun,  if 
possible. 

TO  CLEAN  MARBLE 

Mix  two  parts  of  soda,  one  of  pumice  stone,  and  one  of 
salt,  with  warm  water  to  form  a  paste. 

TO  CLEAN  PLASTER  STATUETTES 

Dip  the  statue  several  times  in  a  strong  solution  of  soda 
in  water,  rubbing  badly  soiled  places  with  a  soft  cloth. 


247 


CLEANING  COMPOUNDS 

TO  REMOVE  GREASE  FROM  ALL  FABRICS 

1  pint  deodorized  benzine  1  oz.  alcohol 

1  oz.  spirits  of  ammonia 

Shake  well,  apply  with  a  sponge  and  rub.  When  dry, 
press  with  a  slightly  warm  iron. 

TO  CLEAN  ALL  FABRICS 

3  drachms  sulphuric  ether  6  drachms  alcohol 

3  drachms  chloroform  1  quart  gasoline 

Let  the  articles  to  be  cleaned  remain' in  the  fluid  from  one 
to  twelve  hours.  If  small  pieces  are  to  be  cleaned,  im- 
merse them  in  the  mixture  in  a  glass  fruit  jar  with  the 
top  screwed  tightly.  Laces,  feathers,  silks,  woolens,  etc., 
clean  beautifully  in  this. 

TO  CLEAN  CARPETS 

2  buckets  lukewarm  rain  water      1  oz.  borax 

1%  bars  naphtha  soap  1  oz.  cleaning  soda 

1  oz.  Fuller's  earth 

Scrub  the  mixture  on  the  carpet  with  a  scrubbing  brush, 
and  wipe  dry  with  clean  cloths. 

TO  CLEAN  WALL  PAPER 

1  quart  cold  water  lOc  worth  oil  of  sassafras 

1^4  cupfuls  aqua  ammonia  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1  teaspoonful  soda 

Mix,  and  add  flour  till  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  spoon. 

248 


PROGRESS  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK       249 

Cook  in  a  covered  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
stirring  often,  till  done.  If  the  mixture  does  not  stick  to 
the  hands  when  cool,  it  is  done,  and  can  be  kneaded  into 
loaves.  Rub  the  wall  with  pieces  of  the  loaf,  using  the 
pieces  over  and  over.  Keep  the  loaves  covered  when  not 
using. 


MEMORANDA 


INDEX 

PAGE 

around  the   kitchen   stove 12 

cooking   utensils    14 

other  helps 13 

preface    7 

read  this  16 

suggestions  for  starting  the  day 9 

the  garbage   12 

the  kitchen  floor 11 

the  kitchen  sink    10 

the  kitchen  table   11 

weights   and    measures 15 

COOKING  RECIPES 

after-dinner  mints  162 

almond-nut  forcemeat   66 

angel  cake    126 

apple  and  fig  jam 168 

apple  cake    126 

apple  chutney  177 

apple  dumplings    103 

apple  dumpling  sauce   103 

apple  fritters   93 

apple  jelly    166 

apple  pie  94 

apple  salad,  No.   1 90 

apple  salad,   No.  2 90 

apple  sauce    119 

apple  snow    115 

apricot    pie    97 

baked  apples,  No.  1 1 19 

baked  apples,  No.  2 119 

251 


252  INDEX 

PACK 

baked  asparagus    53 

baked  beans    53 

baked  beets   56 

baked  buckwheat   cakes    28 

baked  cabbage    57 

baked  cheese,  No.  1 40 

baked  cheese,  No.  2 40 

baked  eggs    35 

baked  indian    pudding    108 

baked  lima  beans    , 55 

baked  onions    73 

baked  parsnips    73 

baked  potatoes   69 

baked  protose   73 

baked  prunes    1 19 

baked  squash    75 

baking  biscuits   26 

baking  cakes  124 

baking  powder  biscuits  26 

baking  powder  doughnuts    123, 

baking  powder  dumplings    103 

baking  powder  griddle  cakes    29 

banana  cream,  No.  1 115 

banana  cream,  No.  2 115 

banana  fritters    93 

banana  whip    115 

bean  croquettes    54 

bean  hash    55 

bean  soup  48 

beating  eggs   34 

beet  hash   56 

bengal    chutney    177 

berry   icing    138 

bird's-nest   toast    32 

biscuits    26 

boiled  asparagus    53 

boiled  beets  56 


INDEX  253 

PAGE 

boiled  cabbage   57 

boiled  carrots   58 

boiled  chestnuts   63 

boiled  corn    59 

boiled  eggs    35 

boiled  icing   138 

boiled  onions    67 

boiled  parsnips   73 

boiled  potatoes    69 

boiled  rice    69 

boiled  salad  dressing,  No.  1 85 

boiled  salad  dressing,  No.  2 85 

boiled  sweet  potatoes    70 

boiled  turnips   78 

boston  brown  bread,  No.  1 22 

boston  brown  bread,  No.  2 22 

brandy  sauce,  No.  1 110 

brandy  sauce,  No.  2 110 

brandy  sauce,  No.  3 110 

breads    26 

bread  doughnuts    26 

bread  pudding    104 

brown  bread,  No.  1 23 

brown  bread,  No.  2 23 

brussels    sprouts    57 

buckwheat  griddle  cakes,  No.   1 28 

buckwheat  griddle  cakes,  No.  2 30 

butter  scotch    160 

butter  without   ice    149 

cake  fillings   135 

cakes   of   many  kinds 126 

candies    and    sweets 160 

candied  mint  leaves    164 

candied  orange  and  lemon  peel 165 

candied  violets   165 

canning  apples   174 

canning  apricots 174 


254  INDEX 

PAGE 

canning  corn  176 

canning  grapes  175 

canning  green  beans   176 

canning  peaches    174 

canning  pears   174 

canning  quinces   175 

canning  rhubarb    175 

canning  tomatoes 175 

canning  vegetables    176 

carrots   58 

carrots  with  dressing 58 

carrot  preserves  171 

carrot  pudding   106 

catsup    178 

cauliflower   59 

celery  59 

cereals  and  breakfast  dishes 32 

cheese  balls   40 

cheese  custard    41 

cheese  dreams    42 

cheese  pudding,  No.  1 42 

cheese  pudding,  No.  2 42 

cheese  salad,   No.   1 87 

cheese  salad,   No.  2 88 

cheese  straws,    No.    1 43 

cheese  straws,    No.    2 43 

cheese  toast  33 

cherry  salad 84 

chili  sauce   179 

chilled  dishes    145 

chocolate  cake    127 

chocolate  cookies    142 

chocolate  filling,    No.    1 135 

chocolate  filling,    No.   2 135 

chocolate  icing,  No.  1 139 

chocolate  icing,  No.  2 139 

chocolate  peppermints    160 


INDEX  255 

PAGE 

chocolate  sauce    148 

chutney,  catsup,  pickles,  etc 177 

cinnamon  rolls  95 

claret  cup,   No.   1 153 

claret  cup,  No.  2 153 

cocoanut  cookies   , 142 

cocoanut  icing    139 

cocoanut  pie  filling 98 

coffee   158 

coffee  cake  127 

cold  beverages    153 

cold  water   153 

coloring    icing    138 

cooked  cabbage  salad 84 

cookies    142 

corn    59 

corn  chowder 57 

corn  fritters 93 

corn  in  milk    59 

corn  in  tomatoes  59 

cornmeal  mush  32 

cottage  cheese  salad 88 

cottage  pudding   106 

cranberry  jelly 169 

cranberry  mould    120 

cranberry  sauce    120 

cranberry  whip  116 

cream  and  whipped   cream 114 

cream  cheese    41 

cream  cheese  salad,  No.  1 87 

cream  cheese  salad,  No.  2 87 

cream  dates   121 

cream  puffs    128 

cream  sauce  Ill 

cream  sauce   for   vegetables 57 

cream  of  asparagus  soup  48 

cream  of  pea  soup   48 


256  INDEX 

PAGE 

cream  de  menthe    157 

cream  de  menthe  sauce    148 

croutons   47 

crustless  pie   98 

cucumbers    60 

cucumber  relish   81 

currant  cream    145 

currant  jelly    169 

currant  punch  1 50 

custard  pie  97 

custard  pie  filling   97 

cutting  bread    20 

dainty  cake    128 

date  pie  filling  98 

delicate  cream    114 

desserts    93 

deviled  egg,  No.  1 35 

deviled  egg,  No.  2 35 

dill  pickles  180 

divinity  candy    161 

divinity  fudge    161 

doughnuts    123 

dried  apple  fruit  cake 129 

dried  fruit  jelly   170 

dried  lemon  flavoring   183 

dried  peach  sauce  122 

drip    coffee    159 

drop  cake,  No.  1 128 

drop  cake,  No.  2 129 

drop  nut  cakes  129 

dutch  or  cottage  cheese 40 

east  india  chutney 177 

easy  sauce    HI 

easy  way  for  jelly 167 


eggs 


82 


egg  gravy    36 

egg  omelet,  No.  1 36 


INDEX  257 

PAGE 

egg  omelet,  No.  2 37 

eggplant    60 

egg  salad  in  pond  lily  style 88 

egg  sauce   82 

egg  substitute   34 

emergency  cream    114 

entire  wheat  bread 21 

everlasting  yeast   17 

fancy  cream   116 

fig  pudding   106 

floating    island    , 107 

fondant   160 

freezing  ice  cream 145 

french  dressing,   No.    1 86 

french  dressing,   No.  2 87 

french  mustard    82 

french  pancakes  with  jelly 31 

french  pickles  181 

fresh  lima  beans 55 

fried  apples   120 

fried  apple  pies   96 

fried  corn  cakes    60 

fried  cornmeal  mush   32 

fried  eggs    38 

fried  green    tomatoes    76 

fried  onions    67 

fried  parsnips   73 

fried  potatoes,  No.  1 70 

fried  potatoes,  No.  2 71 

fried  protose   73 

fried  squash 76 

fried  tomatoes    76 

fritters  93 

fruits    119 

fruit  cake,  No.  1 130 

fruit  cake,  No.  2 131 

fruit  cocktail    154 


258  INDEX 

PAOB 

fruit  cookies    142 

fruit  filling    135 

fruit  icing    139 

fruit  jars    172 

fruit  omelet  37 

fruit  punch    150 

fruit  salads    90 

gingerbread,  No.  1 131 

gingerbread,  No.  2 131 

ginger  cookies    143 

ginger  pudding    108 

ginger  snaps    143 

ginger  and    grape    beverage 154 

gooseberry    chutney    178 

gold   cake    132 

graham  bread   No.   1 24 

graham  bread,  No.  2 24 

graham  biscuits   26 

graham  gems    27 

grandma's  bread  cake 132 

grape  fruit    121 

grape  jelly  169 

grape  juice   punch    150 

grape  sherbet    148 

grape  wine  182 

gravies    79 

green  peas  74 

green  relish    81 

green  things    61 

green  tomato  mince  meat 176 

griddle  cakes 31 

hard  sauce,  No.  1 Ill 

hard  sauce,  No.  2 Ill 

heat  sugar  for  jelly 166 

helps  about  breads 19 

herb  sandwiches    45 

hermits    132 


INDEX  259 

PAGE 

horse  radish    81 

horse  radish  tasty  relish 81 

hot  beverages  158 

hot  sauce   1 12 

iced   fruit   juice 154 

icings  138 

ice  substitute   149 

iced   tea    154 

imitation  angel  cake 126 

jellies,  preserves  and  canned  fruits 166 

jelly-bags    and    glasses 167 

jelly  glasses    167 

johnny-cake  28 

keeping  bread  fresh 19 

kisses   162 

kumiss  155 

lemons 122 

lemonade    155 

lemon  cream  145 

lemon  filling    136 

lemon  honey  filling    136 

lemon  pie,  No.  1 99 

lemon  pie,  No.  2 100 

lemon  pie,  No.  3 100 

lemon  rind  preserves  171 

lemon  sherbet    149 

lemon  syrup  for  lemonade  156 

lentils    61 

lyonnaise  potatoes 71 

macaroni  and  cheese,  No.  1 43 

macaroni  and  cheese,  No.  2 43 

macaroni  and  corn  62 

macaroni  with  cream  sauce 62 

macaroni  and  rice    - 62 

making  dry  yeast  117 

making  lemon  flavoring,  No.  1 183 

making  lemon  flavoring,  No.  2 183 


260  INDEX 

PAGE! 

making  orange  flavoring    183 

making  vanilla  flavoring,   No.   1 183 

making  vanilla  flavoring,   No.  2 183 

manhattan    cocktail    157 

maple  ice  cream    146 

maple  icing,  No.  1 140 

maple  icing,  No.  2 140 

maple  tea   biscuit    27 

marguerites    133 

marshmallow  cream,  No.  1 117 

marshmallow  cream,  No.  2 117 

marshmallow  cups    117 

marshmallow  filling,  No.  1 136 

marshmallow  filling,  No.  2 136 

marshmallow  icing   140 

marshmallow  toast   33 

mashed  potatoes    71 

mashed  chestnuts    64 

mayonnaise  dressing   86 

meringue    98 

milk    113 

milk  gravy   80 

milk  toast 33 

mince  pie  100 

mint  sauce  82 

muffins    27 

new  potatoes    69 

nut  recipes  63 

nut  cream 145 

nut  chowder    51 

nut  filling   137 

nut  and  fruit  filling v 137 

nut  hash   64 

nut  icing  140 

nut  kisses 162 

nut  roast,  No.   1 64 

nut  roast,   No.  2 65 


INDEX  261 

PAGE 

nut  roast,  No.  3 65 

nut  rolls   25 

nut  salad    90 

nut  scrapple    65 

nut  stock  for  soups 47 

oatmeal  cakes  30 

oatmeal  cookies   143 

oatmeal  water    156 

olives    83 

onions    67 

orangeade    156 

orange  cream    117 

orange  custard   105 

orange  filling    137 

orange  icing    140 

orange  marmalade    170 

ornamenting  cakes    125 

parker  house  rolls 25 

parsnip  cakes    74 

parsnip  croquettes    74 

peach   ice   cream 146 

peanut  butter    66 

peanut  .candy    163 

peanut  cookies   144 

piecrust,  No.  1 95 

piecrust,  No.  2 95 

pies 94 

pistachio  ice   cream 147 

plain  cake,   No.   1 133 

plain  cake,   No.  2 133 

plain  custard    185 

plain  ice  cream   147 

plain  potato  soup    49 

poached  eggs,  No.  1 38 

poached  eggs,  No.  2 38 

pop-corn  balls    163 

pop-overs    28 


262  INDEX 

PAGE 

potatoes    69 

potatoes   and   cheese 70 

potato  pudding  108 

potato  salad,  No.  1 91 

potato  salad,  No.  2 91 

protose  hash  73 

prune  catsup    178 

prune  fruit  cake    131 

prune  pie    101 

prune  salad    91 

prune  whip    118 

puddings    103 

pudding  sauce,  No.  1 1 12 

pudding  sauce,  No.  2 112 

pulled  cream  candy   163 

pulled  molasses   candy    164 

pumpkins  and  pies 100 

pumpkin  pie,  No.  1 101 

pumpkin  pie,  No.  2 101 

punches   150 

quick  chutney    178 

quick  cucumber  pickles  179 

quick  soups    49 

radishes    83 

raspberry    preserves    171 

raw  eggs    38 

raw  onions   68 

red  raspberry  jelly    170 

rhubarb  jelly    170 

rhubarb  pie,  No.  1 101 

rhubarb  pie,  No.  2 101 

rice  tomatoes   75 

rolls   24 

russian  tea  punch 151 

rye  bread  22 

salad  combinations  84 

salsify  soup  50 


INDEX  263 

PAGE 

salted   almonds    63 

sandwiches  45 

sandwich  filling  combinations 45 

saving  peelings    172 

sauces,  relishes,  etc 81 

sauce  for  fried  tomatoes 77 

sauces  for  ice  cream 148 

scrambled  eggs    39 

sea-foam  candy   164 

serving  punch  artistically 149 

short  cake   95 

small   cucumber  pickles 180 

soda-water  156 

soups   '. 47 

soups,  basis  47 

soups,  dumplings 104 

sour  cream  salad  dressing 85 

sour  milk  griddle  cakes 31 

sour  milk  pie  crust 96 

Spanish   cream   118 

spiced  peaches   175 

spinach  greens  61 

sponge  cake,  No.  1 134 

sponge  cake,  No.  2 134 

stale  bread   19 

steamed  fruit  roll 107 

stewed  beans    55 

stewed  tomatoes    77 

strawberry  sauce   148 

strawberry  wine   182 

stuffed  dates   121 

stuffed  figs 121 

stuffed  green  peppers 74 

stuffed  potatoes  72 

stuffed  prunes  122 

stuffed  tomatoes    77 

stuffed  tomato  fillings  77 


264  INDEX 

PAGE 

stuffed  turnips    78 

squash  pie   102 

sugar  cookies    144 

sugar  syrup,  for  hot  cakes 30 

summer  beans 56 

summer  squash    76 

sweet    potato    pie 102 

table    mustard    82 

tapioca  pudding  108 

tart  filling 137 

tea 159 

temperance   punch    151 

toast  32 

to  blanch    nuts    63 

to  clarify  vinegar  or  wine 184 

to  crack  nuts  whole 63 

to  freshen    stale    nuts 63 

tomatoes    76 

tomato  catsup    179 

tomato  jelly  salad    92 

tomato  salad,  No.  1 91 

tomato  salad,  No.  2 92 

tomato  sauce    83 

tomato  soup    50 

to  remove    peach    skins 172 

to  preserve  eggs   34 

to  test   milk    113 

turnips    78 

tutti-frutti    175 

unfermented   grape  juice 182 

uncooked  icing  141 

various  sauces    110 

vegetables    53 

vegetable  chili  con  carne 78 

vegetable  salad,  No.  1 92 

vegetable  salad,  No.  2 92 

vegetable  sandwiches 45 


INDEX  265 

PAGE 

vegetable  soup   50 

violet    punch    151 

watercress  sauce    83 

watercress  greens   61 

watermelon  vinegar   184 

welsh  rarebit,   No.   1 44 

welsh  rarebit,   No.  2 44 

whipped   cream    114 

white  bread,  rolls  and  bread  doughnuts 21 

white  cake,    No.    1 134 

white  cake,    No.    2 134 

white  mayonnaise  dressing   87 

wine    punch    152 

wines,  flavorings  and  vinegars 182 

yeast    17 

yellow  icing 141 

Personal  Comforts  and  Things  Good  to  Know 185 

about  plumbing   241 

a    dry    shampoo 192 

an  egg  shampoo    192 

a  flower    centerpiece    225 

a  growing  centerpiece  225 

a  good    shampoo    192 

an  insect  in  the  ear 185 

ants    222 

a  shampoo  for  auburn  hair 192 

bathroom  and  toilet  233 

blacking    a    stove 238 

blistered  heels    186 

bottles,  glass  utensils,  mirrors,  etc 230 

candles,  lamps,  etc 233 

care  of  new  shoes 197 

cement  for  china  and  glass 233 

cement  for  enamel  ware    233 

cleaning  compounds   248 


266  INDEX 

PAGE 

cleaning  bric-a-brac,  etc 247 

cleaning  metals,  etc 242 

cleaning  tan  shoes   196 

cleaning  white  canvas   shoes    . . . . 196 

cleaning  white  kid    shoes    196 

coal,  stoves,  furnaces,  etc 237 

cologne 220 

cook  book  covers 235 

cuts,  burns,  etc 185 

disinfectants,   scents,   etc 219 

dust   cloths    246 

ferns  and  palms  228 

filling  a  rose  jar,  No.   1 220 

filling  a  rose  jar,  No.  2 221 

filling  oil  lamps,  etc 234 

flies    : 223 

flowers   for   winter    226 

flowers,  plants   and   green   things 225 

for  a    discolored    neck 190 

for  bath   bags    189 

for  creaky  shoes  » 197 

for  mending  rubber  articles 233 

for  the  bath   189 

for  the    hands    190 

frozen    potted    plants 22? 

furs    217 

gas  stoves  239 

gloves    194 

good    complexion    cream 185 

..226 


growing  greens    

hats,  feathers,  ribbons  and  laces 199 

hot  cloths    186 

hot  water  bag 187 

hyacinths    227 

innersoles  198 

in  the  oven 239 

lamp  wicks   234 


INDEX  267 

PAGE 

lavender  smelling  salts 188 

lime  water  • 220 

lockjaw  precaution 187 

mending  china   232 

mint    226 

mirrors    232 

moths  224 

nasturtiums    225 

packing  the  stove  away 240 

palms 228 

paper  and  books 235 

pests  of  various  kinds 222 

plant  bugs   229 

poisons    188 

pouring  hot  liquids  in  glasses 232 

preserving  for  decoration 227 

rats   and   mice 222 

red  ants    222 

removing  stains  211 

removing  stoppers  from  bottles . . .  .231 

roaches    223 

rubber  plants   228 

scent  bags  to  hang  in  closets 224 

scenting   linens    220 

shoe  laces 198 

shoes  and  rubbers 196 

slipping  geraniums    227 

sparrows    223 

storing   furs    217 

the  hair  192 

the  teeth    191 

to  blacken  shoes   196 

to  clean  alabaster  ornaments    247 

to  clean  all  fabrics  248 

to  clean  aluminum  kettles  242 

to  clean  asbestos   gas  logs 240 

to  clean  bath  tubs   . .  189 


268  INDEX 

PAGE 

to  clean  black  silks    203 

to  clean  black  wool  gowns   208 

to  clean  brass    242 

to  clean  bottles    220 

to  clean  bristle  brushes   190 

to  clean  bronze    242 

to  clean  carpets    248 

to  clean  chamois  leather   194 

to  clean  chinchilla 217 

to  clean  combs    189 

to  clean  copper    242 

to  clean  covert  cloth 208 

to  clean  discolored    fireplace    brick 238 

to  clean  enameled  ware   242 

to  clean  enameled   woodwork    244 

to  clean  ermine   218 

to  clean  feathers   200 

to  clean  felt  hats 199 

to  clean  and  freshen  chiffon  hats 200 

to  clean  gas  mantles  240 

to  clean  gold    243 

to  clean  ivory  247 

to  clean  khaki  trousers  195 

to  clean  lace   waists    205 

to  clean  lace  yokes    205 

to  clean  lamp    chimneys    234 

to  clean  mackintosh    coats    209 

to  clean  marble    247 

to  clean  mink   218 

to  clean  nickel   243 

to  clean  oiled  woodwork  245 

to  clean  old  paint  brushes 245 

to  clean  painted  woodwork 245 

to  clean  patent  leathers   196 

to  clean  pewter   243 

to  clean  plaster  statuettes    247 

to  clean  ribbons 201 


INDEX  269 

PAGE 

to  clean  sealskin  218 

to  clean  silk  gowns    204 

to  clean  silver    243 

to  clean  soiled  books   235 

to  clean  sponges    191 

to  clean  spots  from  cashmere    208 

to  clean  steel    244 

to  clean  straw  hats    199 

to  clean  tin   244 

to  clean  veils    206 

to  clean  wall  paper    248 

to  clean  white  feathers    200 

to  clean  white  fur  cloth    209 

to  dean  white  fur   218 

to  clean  white  kid  gloves    195 

to  clean  white  parasols    195 

to  clean  white  ribbons    201 

to  clean  white  satin    204 

to  clean  white  straw  hats    ; 199 

to  clean  white  wings    202 

to  clean  windows    245 

to  clean  zinc    244 

to  cleanse  a  tooth  brush    191 

to  color  flowers    202 

to  color  laces   206 

to  curl  ostrich  feathers    202 

to  cut  a  bottle,  No.  1    230 

to  cut  a  bottle,  No.  2   230 

to  cut  glass    231 

to  cut  stove  pipe   239 

to  dry  clean  laces    205 

to  dry  clean  lace  waists    206 

to  dry  clean  white  cloth    209 

to  dry  clean  white  gloves    194 

to  extract  a  needle  from  the  flesh 188 

to  freshen  black  kid  gloves   194 

to  freshen  black  straw  hats    199 


270  INDEX 

PAGE 

to  freshen  suede  kid    194 

to  freshen  black  lace    207 

to  freshen  black  veils    207 

to  freshen  velvet  203 

to  hasten  growth   226 

to  keep  a  cyclamen  blooming    227 

to  keep  a  fire  238 

to  keep  glass  globes  from  breaking    231 

to  keep  hair  in  curl    193 

to  keep  silver  untarnished    244 

to  kill  burdocks    229 

to  make  a  cork  smaller   231 

to  make  library  paste    236 

to  make  a  mustard  plaster    187 

to  make  a  tooth  powder    191 

to  make  waterproof  paper   235 

to  mend  gloves    194 

to  polish  furniture    245 

to  preserve  new  gloves   194 

to  preserve  polished  iron  work    243 

to  prevent  eye  glasses  steaming  186 

to  prevent  mould  on  books    235 

to  prevent  pipes  freezing    241 

to  prevent  silk  from  cracking    202 

to  prevent  soot  in  chimneys   237 

to  relieve  thirst,  etc 188 

to  remove  axle  grease  stains   212 

to  remove  beeswax  from  silk   203 

to  remove  blood  stains  from  cotton    211 

to  remove  blood  stains  from  silk    211 

to  remove  candle  grease  212 

to  remove  chocolate  and  cocoa  stains    211 

to  remove  coffee  stains  211 

to  remove  cork  from  bottle    231 

to  remove  egg  stain  from  silver    243 

to  remove  fishbone  from  throat    186 

to  remove  fruit  stains  211 


INDEX  271 

PAGE 

to  remove  grass  stains 212 

to  remove  grease  from  all  fabrics    248 

to  remove  gloss  from  clothing    209 

to  remove  indelible  ink  or  pencil  marks    213 

to  remove  ink  stains    213 

to  remove  ink  from  wooden  floors    213 

to  remove  iodine  stains    213 

to  remove  iron  rust  from  wash  goods    214 

to  remove  lemon  juice  stains  214 

to  remove  machine  oil    ^ 214 

to  remove  mildew 214 

to  remove  milk  stains  214 

to  remove  mud  stains  from  cloth    215 

to  remove  paint    215 

to  remove  perspiration  stains    215 

to  remove  red  ink    213 

to  remove  rust  from  steel    244 

to  remove  scorch  stains    215 

to  remove  splinter    188 

to  remove  substance  from  the  eye    185 

to  remove  tangles 193 

to  remove  tea  stains    216 

to  remove  varnish  stains    216 

to  remove  vinegar  stains    216 

to  remove  wine  stains   216 

to  restore  faded  writing    235 

to  root  oleanders 227 

to  save  rubbers    198 

to  see  obstructions  in  a  chimney   237 

to  sharpen  lawn  mowers    229 

to  start  a  fire  237 

to  stiffen  lace  208 

to  stiffen  ribbons    201 

to  stop  a  simple  nose  bleed   187 

to  thaw  frozen  pipes   241 

to  wash  a  black  wool  gown  208 

to  wash  delicate  ribbons    201 


272  INDEX 

PAGE 

to  wash  laces   204 

to  wash  lace  waists   206 

to  wash  pongee  silk   203 

to  wash  veils    207 

to  wash  white  satin    204 

to  wash  white  silk  gloves    195 

to  wash  white  sweaters  and  shawls    209 

to  waterproof  matches    238 

to  whiten  a  hearth    240 

vines   226 

washing  blond  hair   193 

washing  glass  232 

wet   shoes    197 

when  glasses  stick  together   232 


*&&A**#5. 


^  . 

>!/ 

* 


*&**w  -tts£**62i€*»tjt*>v 


S 


