iP.:>^"  ■  '^ 


:!r>^.' 


LIBRARY  OFjCONGRESS. 

<X^\^' — 

Chap._i.\...;  Copyright  No. 

ShelL...-ELl  S4 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


THE 


QUEEN  COOK  BOOK. 


A  Careful  Compilation  of  Recipes  and  Practical  In- 
formation FOR  Cooking  and  Other  Household 
Requirements. 


MRS.  WILLIAM  HART  BOYD. 


FLEMING  H.  REVELL  COMPANY, 
Chicago,  New  York,  Toronto. 


J^ 


^ 


^ 


Copyright.  1895, 

BY 

Mrs.  William  Hart  Boyd. 


AT    WHOSE    EARNEST    REQUEST 

THE  WORK  WAS  COMMENCED, 

I     MOST    AFFECTIONATELY    DEDICATE 

THIS   VOLUME. 


THOUGHTS  BY  THE  WAY. 

'  The  world  is  ever  as  we  take  it, 

And  life,  dear  friend,  is  what  we  make  it." 


'  A  desire  for  useful  knowledge  is  a  laudable  ambition." 


Persistent  training  tends  to  efficiency. 


"Live  so  that  thy  life  some  others  may  bless." 


'  For  the  burden  borne  in  patience, 
Joy  will  crown  the  endless  years." 


"This  is  but  'Gold  Dust,' 
This  but  the  thought. 
The  real  block  of  gold 

Is  the  deed  well  wrought." 

—I.  P.  B. 


"  If  ye  abide  in  me,  and  my  words  abide  in  you,  ye  shall  ask 
what  ye  will,  and  it  shall  be  done  unto  you."     John  xv:  7. 


"  Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread."     Mdtt.  vi:  11. 


"  Be  of  good  courage  and  he  shall  strengthen  your  heart,  all 
ye  that  hope  in  the  Lord."     Ps.  xxxi:  24. 


PREFACE. 

When  any  woman  of  the  royal  famihes  of  Europe 
has  in  prospect  the  sharing  of  the  throne  with  the  king 
of  a  nation,  or  of  ruHng  alone  as  its  sovereign,  she  is 
especially  prepared  to  fill  the  position  in  a  manner 
befitting  a  queen,  that  she  may  rule  her  subjects  well. 
The  royal  girls  of  European  nations  are  very  carefully 
educated  and  why  should  not  the  girls  of  our  beloved 
America,  or  of  any  country,  who  are  royal  only  as  their 
characters  are  such,  be  well  educated  and  fitted  to 
preside  over  homes  which  sooner  or  later  may  be 
theirs.  Every  wife  and  mother  should  be  queen  of 
her  own  home,  if  she  is  fortunate  enough  to  possess 
one,  and  she  can  not  fill  her  position  in  its  full  mean- 
ing without  a  knowledge  of  cooking  and  all  domestic 
economy.  Even  if  she  does  not  cook  as  a  rule  her- 
self, she  will  find  many  annoyances,  embarrassments 
and  perhaps  an  absolute  stand-still  in  household 
affairs,  if  she  has  not  as  much  or  more  knowledge  of 
the  kitchen  arts  than  her  cook.  Then  too,  hired 
cooks  are  as  uncertain  as  April  weather  and  when 
they  say  farewell  and  no  one  is  at  hand  to  take  the 
vacated  place,  that  housekeeper  is  in  a  sad  plight, 
who  is  ignorant  of  how  to  cook  and  without  experience. 
We  advise  all  girls  and  women,  if  they  have  already 

s 


6  Preface 

grown  to  womanhood  without  a  knowledge  of  cooking 
to  learn  this  indispensable  art  while  mother,  sister  or 
friend  is  with  them,  to  help  and  give  information  in 
the  more  difficult  parts.  There  are  so  many  nice 
little  points  to  know,  that  are  learned  only  by  prac- 
tice, which  are  too  numerous  to  put  in  print,  and  are 
scarcely  thought  of,  perhaps,  till  one  is  in  the  midst  of 
the  work.  It  seems  to  be  one  sad  lack  to-day  that 
mothers  so  generally  neglect  to  train  their  daughters 
in  the  many  practical  methods  connected  with  house- 
keeping. They  can  be  learned  only  by  degrees,  and 
must  largely  be  acquired  ^^'hen  the  opportunity  offers, 
not  waiting  for  a  stated  time. 

"  Knowledge  is  gold  to  him  who  can  discern, 
That  he  who  loves  to  know  must  love  to  learn." 

A  cook  book  lying  on  the  shelf  does  not  make  a 
good  cook,  but  study  is  absolutely  necessary,  and 
must  be  joined  with  carefulness  and  good  judgment. 
As  the  public  is  already  supplied  with  many  books 
of  this  kind,  (still,  this  is  one  by  itself)  it  is  with  some 
misgivings  that  this   volume  is   presented. 

It  is  the  fruit  of  a  life-long  experience  in  house- 
keeping and  the  writer  trusts  it  will  prove  both  help- 
ful and  instructive  to  the  numerous  home-makers  and 
render  their  lives  easier,  brighter  and  better. 


INTRODUCTION. 

HOME. 

"  '  Tis  home  where'er  the  heart  is, 
Where'er  its  loved  ones  dwell." 

There  is  a  charm  in  a  well  ordered  home  which 
commends  itself  to  every  observer.  A  man's  and 
woman's  home  is  their  earthly  paradise.  The  true 
home  feeling  is  a  matter  of  quality,  and  is  not  depend- 
ent upon  the  things  which  can  be  bought.  It  is  found 
in  the  absence  of  the  artificial,  and  in  the  presence  of 
the  natural  and  the  real.  Here,  as  elsewhere,  it  is  the 
spirit  that  giveth  life.  I  believe  there  is  as  much  or 
more  true  home  feeling  in  homes  which  are  exceed- 
ingly plain  and  simple,  homes  in  which  the  strife  for 
maintenance  is  a  constant  struggle,  as  in  those  pos- 
sessing every  luxury  wealth  and  taste  can  contribute. 
It  is  free  alike  to  all;  it  is  largely  independent  of  out- 
ward conditions  because  it  depends  upon  the  spirit  of 
the  individuals  that  compose  the  home  circle.  Love, 
gentleness,  truthfulness,  unselfishness,  patience,  self  con- 
trol, courtesy,  considerateness  and  self  adaptation  are 
jewels  that  never  shine  more  brightly  than  in  the  home. 
As  the  atmosphere  depends  upon  the  united  heads  of 
the  family,  it  should  be  their  constant  study  to  make 
it  so  attractive   (without  any  "  family  jars"  )  that  of 

7 


8  Introduction 

all  other  spots,  they  and  the  children  leave  that  with 
the  most  regret,  and  turn  to  it  from  the  outside  world 
with  the  most  delight. 

"A  few  sunny  pictures  in  simple  frames  shrined, 
A  few  precious  volumes,  the  wealth  of  the  mind; 
And  here  and  there  treasured  some  rare  gem  of  art. 
To  kindle  the  fancy  or  soften  the  heart." 


"  Home  is  not  merely  roof  and  room; 
It  needs  nothing  to  endure  it; 
Home  is  where  the  heart  can  bloom, 
Where  there's  some  kind  lip  to  cheer  it ! 

What  is  home  with  none  to  meet  ? 

None  to  welcome,  none  to  greet  us  ? 
Home  is  sweet,  and  onlj'  sweet, 

Where  there's  one  we  love  to  meet  us." 


THE  OUEEN  COOK  BOOK. 


Wheat  Bread  and  Biscuit. 

I    pint    and    three    table-     2  quarts  flour 

spoons  milk  2  even  teaspoons  salt 

Yz  tea  cup  yeast 
Take  out  one  pint  of  flour  for  kneading  next  morn- 
ing, make  a  hollow  in  center  of  flour,  put  all  the 
ingredients  in,  stir  together,  then  stir  in  the  flour  to  a 
thick  batter  (not  dough).  Use  a  tin  pan  with  a  good 
fitting  cover,  then  wrap  in  double  flannel  and  set  it 
on  two  warm  bricks  in  a  warm  room  over  night.  (It 
is  a  good  plan  to  keep  two  bricks  in  the  oven.)  Take 
it  out  early  next  morning,  soon  as  you  can  get  it 
warmed  through.  Work  in  the  largest  half  of  your 
reserved  flour  and  knead  ten  minutes,  by  doubling  the 
hand  and  pressing  the  knuckles  in  the  dough,  lifting 
one  fist  up,  as  you  put  the  other  dow^n,  with  some 
force.  Then  flour  the  board  and  knead  on  that  for 
ten  minutes  more  with  the  palm  of  the  hand,  using 
the  rest  of  the  flour  or  more,  having  the  dough  as  soft 
as  possible  to  manage  well.  At  first  the  soft  dough 
will  seem  to  stick  and  trouble  the  inexperienced  cook, 
but  she  will  soon  learn  to  manage  it,  to  her  great 
relief.  The  dough  must  not  get  cold.  Butter  your 
pan  before  making  out  the  bread.  Set  it  in  heater 
and  keep  warm.  If  good  it  will  be  light  in  one  hour. 
Raise  up  the  edge  of  loaf;  if  it  looks  light  and  foamy 

9 


TO  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

(not  stringy)  it  is  light  for  baking.  Bake  tnree-fourths 
of  an  hour,  if  oven  is  hot  enough.  If  you  can  hold 
hand  in  oven  till  you  can  count  twenty  only,  it  is  right 
heat,  or  if  a  teaspoon  of  flour  on  a  tin  browns  in  five 
minutes.  Bread  should  be  in  the  oven  fifteen  min- 
utes before  it  begins  to  brown.  When  baked  through 
take  it  out  of  pan  and  stand  it  on  end;  lean  it  against 
som'ething,  so  as  to  let  the  air  circulate  around  it,  to 
give  a  dry  crust.  When  perfectly  cold,  put  it  in  a 
sweet  clean  jar,  cover  with  paper  and  plate.  Do  not 
wrap  a  cloth  around  it,  as  our  mothers  used  to,  as  the 
cloth  absorbs  the  moisture  of  the  bread.  If  you  wet 
the  bread  with  water  you  can  put  one  rounded  tea- 
spoon of  butter  in  water.  Milk  or  water  should 
always  be  warm.  This  receipt  is  for  bottled  yeast  and 
makes  one  large  loaf.  If  you  use  dried  yeast,  take 
one-fourth  of  a  cake  for  a  loaf  and  a  half  cup  more 
wetting,  and  you  can  knead  it  and  raise  it  twice  after 
the  sponge.  To  make  good  bread  it  is  best  to  know 
how  to  select  good  flour.  When  pressed  tightly,  it 
adheres  to  the  hand,  remains  in  shape  and  shows  the 
imprint  of  the  lines  on  the  hand.  It  has  a  yellowish 
white  tinge  and  when  made  into  a  paste  with  water, 
and  well  worked,  is  tough  and  elastic.  Use  one  kind 
of  flour  for  bread,  pastry  and  cake.  After  selecting 
the  flour,  the  next  important  thing  is  to  have  good 
strong,  sweet  yeast.  The  compressed  yeast  cakes  are 
very  good  and  convenient.  In  large  cities  you  can 
obtain  the  soft  yeast  cakes  done  up  in  tin  foil.  They 
are  very  nice,  but  must  be  fresh.  I  much  prefer  the 
flavor  of  bread  made  from  bottled  yeast.  I  have  been 
thus  minute  in  describing  the  process  of  bread  making 
for  the  sake  of  the  inexperienced,  while  it  may  seem 
unneccessary  to  the  practical  housekeeper.   Always  use 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  1 1 

a  tin  pan  to  raise  the  dough  in.      Wooden  bowls  are 
not  good. 

Bottled  Ydast. 

6  medium-sized  potatoes     ^  cup  sugar 
2)^  quarts  water  J^  cup  salt 

I  handful  good  hops  5^  pint  yeast  or  5^  of  a  cake 

Boil  the  six  potatoes  in  the  two  and  a  half  quarts  of 
water;  when  just  done  skim  them  into  a  gallon  crock, 
mash  fine,  and  stir  light  with  a  fork.  Put  hops  in  a 
thin  bag  and  boil  five  minutes  in  the  potato  water, 
then  squeeze  dry  and  pour  the  hop  water  on  to  the  pota- 
toes, sugar  and  salt.  When  cool  enough  to  hold  the 
finger  in  it,  put  in  the  yeast.  Make  it  about  3  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon.  Stir  it  well  every  hour  till  bedtime. 
Keep  it  warm  and  covered  all  night.  Bottle  it  the 
first  thing  in  the  morning  in  pint  bottles.  If  good  it 
will  sparkle  and  foam  when  stirred.  Put  your  corks 
in  loosely  until  they  stop  popping  out,  say  three  hours. 
Then  tie  them  down  as  beer  bottles  are  tied.  One- 
half  cup  of  this  yeast  makes  a  large  loaf,  ten  inches 
long,  six  inches  wide,  and  three  or  four  inches  high — a 
good  size  for  sandwiches  cut  in  three  pieces.  For  a 
large  family  make  twice  the  quantity,  which  would  be 
one  gallon.  It  will  keep  six  weeks  in  cool  weather, 
and  four  in  hot  weather.  Keep  it  in  cellar.  This  yeast 
simply  foams,  never  rises  any  higher. 

Salt-Rising  Bread. 

Stir  into  one  pint  of  warm  milk  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  liour  enough  to  make  quite  a  thick  batter,  beat- 
ing it  well.  Set  the  dish  in  hot  water  till  light,  then 
put  it  in  the  center  of  flour  in  bread  pan,  and  add  warm 
milk  and  salt  according  to  desired  quantity.  Make  it 
up  (without  sponging)  and  put  into  pans  the  same  as 


12  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

other  bread.  The  yeast  will  rise  in  about  six  hours. 
You  can  take  a  part  of  the  yeast  and  make  a  small  tin 
of  biscuit  for  tea. 

Bread  for  the  Sea. 

Bread  on  sea,  on  account  of  constant  moisture, 
seldom  has  crispness  as  on  shore.  If  you  are  yacht- 
ing, it  is  wise  to  have  tight  tin  boxes  to  keep  your 
bread  in,  wrapped  in  thick  white  paper.  Bob,  the  sea 
cook,  says:  "  I  buy  my  yeast  of  the  brewer,  and  take 
a  board  two  feet  square  and  cover  it  with  white  blot- 
ting paper.  I  pour  my  yeast  on  the  paper  and  stand 
it  in  the  sun.  When  it  is  dry  I  break  up  the  yeast  cake 
in  small  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  ground-glass-stoppered 
bottle.  This  yeast  will  be  good  for  two  months.  One 
heaping  tablespoon  of  this  dried  yeast  is  sufficient  for 
three  pints  of  wetting,  which  will  make  three  large 
loaves.  For  making  the  bread,  sponge  and  raise  it  the 
same  as  other  bread."  When  the  bread  is  being  made, 
he  says:  "  Now  comes  real  work,  and  go  for  it.  Mash 
her  and  knead  her  all  you  can."  I  think  this  is  good 
for  all  bread.  Let  rise,  and  bake  as  other  bread. 
When  bread  or  cake  cleaves  from  the  pan  it  is  done, 
and  it  also  has  a  hollow  sound  when  3'ou  knock  on  the 
bottom  of  loaf.  Do  not  open  the  oven  door  when 
the  bread  or  cake  is  just  boiling  hot,  for  it  is  almost  in  a 
liquid  state  and  the  least  cold  air  will  make  it  fall  in 
the  center. 

Rye  and  Indian  Bread. 

3  cups  sour  milk  5^  cup  molasses 

2  cups  rye  meal  i  y^.  teaspoon  soda 

I  Yi  cups  corn  meal  2  teaspoons  salt 

Put  one  teaspoon  soda  in  milk  and  the  half  spoon 
in    the    molasses.      If  you  use  sweet    milk  use    three 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  13 

teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  well  together  as 
soft  as  loaf  cake.  Steam  three  hours,  or  bake  one 
hour  and  a  half.  I  prefer  sweet  milk  and  three 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Rye  Bread,  Baked. 

Make  a  sponge  of  half  wheat  and  half  rye,  the  same 
as  for  other  bread.  Double  the  quantity  of  salt.  In 
the  morning  add  sufficient  rye  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Knead  lightly;  when  light  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  one  hour  or  more. 

Graham  Bread,  Baked. 

Make  a  sponge  the  same  as  rye  only  using  the  gra- 
ham flour,  adding  one-half  cup  molasses  and  two  tea- 
spoons salt.      One-half  teaspoon  soda  in  molasses. 

Boston   Brown  Bread. 

2  large  cups  corn  meal         ^  cup  molasses 
I  large  cup  rye  meal  i  teaspoon  soda 

5^  cup  yeast  2  teaspoons  salt 

Make  a  pint  of  sponge  early  in  the  morning,  with 
your  yeast,  of  wheat  flour.  Scald  your  meal  stiff  with 
boiling  water,  when  cool  and  sponge  is  light,  stir  all 
the  ingredients  well  together  as  stiff  as  cake  only. 
It  should  be  ready  to  bake  in  an  hour,  or  steam,  just 
which  you  prefer.  Steam  three  hours  or  bake  in  slow 
oven  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Boston   Brown  Bread. 

I  pint  corn  meal  ^  cup  molasses 

I  pint  graham  flour  5^  teaspoon  soda 

^  cup  yeast  2  teaspoons  salt 

Scald  the  meal  with  boiling  milk.  When  cool 
enough    add    all    the    ingredients  and    the    cool  milk 


14  The  Qiiccii  Cook  Book 

enough  to  make  a  sponge  batter,  stir  in  the  rest  of 
the  flour  next  morning,  beat  well,  let  rise.  Can  steam 
it  three  hours  and  bake  one-half  hour,  or  bake  it  one 
hour  and  a  half, 

Graham  Bread,  Without  Yeast,  Baked. 

3^/^  cups  graham  flour  i  heaping  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  of  molasses  2  teaspoons  soda 

Equal  parts  of  sour  and  sweet  milk  to  make  a  bat- 
ter as  thick  as  pound  cake.  Put  half  of  soda  in  the 
milk  and  half  in  molasses,  beat  to  a  foam  and  add 
to  the  batter.  Bake  one  and  a  half  hours  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.  This  has  the  merit  of  being  more  quickly 
made  than  others  when  you  discover  there  is  not  bread 
enough  for  the  next  meal.  It  is  nicest  when  just  cold. 
You  can  add  one-half  pint  of  hot  oat  meal  gruel  to  any 
of  these  brown  breads  if  you  choose. 

Boston  Brown  Bread,  Steamed, 

2  cups  graham  flour  i  cup  milk 

I  cup  white  flour  !  cup  molasses 

I  teaspoon  soda  2  teaspoons  (even)  salt 

Steam  three  hours  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Old   School  Yeast. 

Boil  two  liberal  handfuls  of  good  hops  in  three 
quarts  of  water  in  a  thin  bag,  squeeze  dry.  When 
cool  stir  in  one  quart  of  flour,  one  small  cup  of  sugar, 
and  one  small  cup  of  salt.  Cover  this  in  a  stone  jar 
and  stand  three  days  in  a  warm  place  stirring  it  occa- 
sionally. On  the  fourth  day  add  one  quart  of  nicely 
mashed  potatoes.  Let  it  stand  until  the  day  following, 
when  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  A  small  half  tea  cup  is 
enough  for  two  good  sized  loaves  of  bread.  If  kept 
in  a  cool  place,  will  keep  six  weeks  in  summer,  and 


The  Quccii  Cook  Book  i  5 

three  months  in  whiter.  This  yeast  does  not  foam. 
You  may  think  it  worthless;  try  it  and  you  will  not 
doubt.  Messenger. 

Potato  Yeast. 

Take  ten  potatoes  from  the  dinner  pot;  wet  a  pint 
of  flour  with  a  pint  of  the  potato  water.  Two  table- 
spoons each  of  white  sugar  and  salt.  A  yeast  cake 
dissolved.  Let  it  rise  till  next  morning  then  cover 
tight  or  bottle.  This  will  keep  two  weeks.  Three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  will  raise  two  loaves.  Sponge  and 
raise  again. 

Parker  House  Rolls. 

1  pint  boiled  milk  i  large  tablespoon  butter 

2  quarts  flour  i  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  yeast  i  heaping  tablespoon  sugar 

Beat  all  well  together  for  ten  minutes  in  soft  sponge 
for  over  night,  then  knead  well  in  the  morning,  roll 
out  thin  and  soft,  cut  with  a  roll  cutter  or  cut  with  a 
pint  pail  cover.  Rub  it  over  with  a  little  melted  but- 
ter and  lap  over  like  a  turnover,  let  rise,  bake  twenty 
minutes.  Heat  over  carefully  for  supper  or  lunch. 
These  are  splendid  and  never  fail  if  directions  are  fol- 
lowed.     Keep  warm.      Knead  fifteen  minutes. 

You  can  use  this  same  recipe  using  the  yeast  cake, 
making  the  dough  stiff  enough  to  knead  fifteen  min- 
utes at  night  instead  of  sponge,  then  knead  it  fifteen 
minutes  more  in  the  morning.  Let  stand  till  3  P.  M., 
knead  fifteen  minutes  more,  make  in  rolls,  when  light 
bake  for  tea. 

French  Breakfast  Rolls. 

Take  of  good  bread  dough  that  is  kneaded  ready  for 
its  last  rising  what  would  make  a  half  loaf  of  bread, 


1 6  TJic  Que  en  Cook  Book 

more  or  less,  as  you  need,  in  quantit}'.  Cut  from  this 
pieces  of  dough  about  the  size  of  a  biscuit  (after 
working  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  one  of  sugar 
if  you  like  it).  Then  roll  the  pieces  of  dough  under 
the  hand  till  it  is  round.  Flatten  it  a  little  and  then 
let  it  stand  on  the  molding  board  till  the  last  of  the 
rolls  are  finished.  Then  let  them  remain  five  minutes 
covered  to  prove  if  light.  Have  a  saucer  of  melted 
butter  in  which  dip  the  ball  of  your  hand  and  press 
the  whole  weight  of  the  ball  of  your  hand  across  the 
center  of  each  roll  so  as  to  dent  it  almost  through. 
Then  fold  them  over  and  place  in  a  baking  pan  so  they  do 
not  touch.  Let  rise  till  very  light.  It  will  most  likely 
take  twice  as  long  as  bread.  They  should  bake  in 
twelve  minutes.  If  you  wish  these  rolls  for  tea  or  for 
the  next  morning  breakfast  set  them  in  the  refrigerator. 
They  are  very  delicious  when  thus  treated. 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit. 

I  quart  fiour  1 5^  cup  milk 

3  heaping  tablespoons  2heaping  teaspoons  baking- 

butter  powder 

I  teaspoon  salt 
The  first  thing  is  to  see  if  the  oven  is  very  hot. 
Have  everything  ready  to  work  with,  then  sift  the 
baking-powder,  salt  and  flour  together  twice;  then  rub 
the  butter  in  well.  Mix  with  the  milk  as  soft  and  as 
little  as  you  can  handle  it.  Roll  from  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Some  set  them  ten  minutes  in  the  cold.  Let  all  the 
ingredients  be  right  cold.  Success  depends  largely  on 
speed  and  the  hot  oven.  All  biscuits,  rusks  or  rolls 
when  nearly  baked  can  be  washed  over  on  top  either 
with  milk  or  the  sweetened  white  of  egg. 


Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book  17 

Cream  Biscuit. 

Cream  biscuit  and  cream  short  cake  are  made  the 
same  as  baking  powder  biscuit,  using  cream  (or  if 
very  rich  use  half  cream  and  milk)  in  place  of  milk  and 
butter. 

Rusks. 

I  cup  sugar  2  cups  milk 

1  cup  butter  Y2  cup  yeast 

2  eggs  I  teaspoon  salt 

Stir  butter  dnd  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs 
beaten  separately,  then  the  milk  warm,  and  yeast,  with 
flour  enough  to  make  a  sponge;  let  this  stand  in  a 
warm  place  till  light,  then  knead  in  flour  enough 
to  make  soft  biscuits;  cut  with  cutter  and  put  in 
baking  pan,  let  them  stand  three  hours;  bake  forty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  is  always  best  to  set 
the  sponge  at  night,  then  it  is  ready  to  bake  the  next 
morning.  If  they  are  desired  warm  for  tea,  they  can 
be  set  early  in  the  morning. 


Galettes. 

I  quart  flour  ^  cup  yeast 

^  pint  sweet  milk  i  even  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  butter  i  tablespoon  sugar 

3  eggs 
Use  what  flour  yo  need  for  the  sponge,  set  to  rise, 
keep  warm,  when  light  work  in  the  rest  of  flour,  roll 
out,  cut  round,  handling  the  dough  as  lightly  as 
possible.  Set  to  rise;  when  light  bake  fifteen  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.  Brush  the  top  with  ^gg.  These  are 
most  delicious.  Eat  hot,  or  when  cold  split  and 
toast. 


1 8  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

Sally  Lunn,   Raised. 

3  pints  flour  i  tablespoon  suf^ar 

I  pint  milk  3  eggs  beaten  separately 

Yi  cup  yeast  i  teaspoon  salt 

Butter  the  size  of  an  &gg 
Warm  the  milk,  and  scften  the  butter.  Mix  it  in 
morning  if  wanted  for  tea.  This  must  be  stirred,  let 
rise,  when  light,  stir  down  and  pour  into  dripping 
pans,  let  Sally  take  another  rise.  Bake  from  three- 
fourths  to  one  hour.      This  is  broken  up. 

Sally  Lunn  with  Baking-Powder. 

I  quart  flour  i  cup  butter 

1  pint  sweet  milk  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder  i  tablespoon  sugar 

Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven,  in  cups. 


Tea  Biscuit,   Raised. 

1  pint  milk  2  eggs 

3  or  more  pints  flour  ^  cup  yeast 

2  heaping  tablespoons  i  teaspoon  sugar 
butter  I  teaspoon  salt 

Scald  the  milk,  add  butter,  salt  and  sugar,  when 
cool  enough  add  the  yeast  and  flour  enough  for 
sponge,  beat  light  for  six  minutes.  Let  rise  over 
night.  Then  beat  eggs  well,  and  add  sufficient  flour 
for  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  about  one-half  inch  thick, 
cut  into  biscuits,  let  rise  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  If 
made  with  care,  these  are  very  fine.  You  can  add 
four  mashed  potatoes,  rubbed  through  a  colander,  if 
preferred. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  1 9 

MUFFINS  AND  GEMS. 

Graham  Muffins. 

I  5^  cups  graham  flour  3  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

I  full  cup  milk,  take  out      3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

two  tablespoons  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

I  heaping  teaspoon  salt        i  ^gg 

Beat  the  Qgg,  stir  all  well  together,  bake  in  gem 
pans  one-half  hour,  a  steady  bake,  do  not  burn  them. 
This  quantity  makes  eight  gems.  Fill  each  pan  only 
one-half  full.      Very  fine  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. 

I  cup  corn  meal  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

^  cup  white  flour  2  tablespoons    white  sugar 

I  cup  sweet  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

I  heaping  teaspoon  salt       2  eggs 

This  quantity  makes  eight  muffins.  Corn  meal 
always  requires  slower  bake  than  liour.  Fill  the  gem 
pans  only  half  full;  or  bake  in  one  loaf. 

Corn  Bread. 

I  cup  corn  meal  i  cup  flour 

^  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

Yz  cup  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  cream  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 
Bake  in  two  loaves. 

Flour  Muffins. 

8  tablespoons,  heaping,  of  Y^  cup  milk 

flour  The  whites  of  two  eggs 

I  teaspoon  butter  i  heaping  teaspoon  baking- 

I  teaspoon  salt  powder 

Measure  the  spoonsful  all  heaping,  beat  light  and 


20  ■  TJic  Qucm  Cook  Book 

bake  in  twenty  minutes,  either  in  cups  or  gem  pans, 
heating  very  hot  and  butter  them  before  filHng.  If 
Hked  add  a  spoon  of  white  sugar  and  brush  the  top 
with  sweetened  ^^g — the  whites. 

Oat  Meal  Gems. 

I  cup  sweet  milk  i  ^  cups  flour 

1  cup  oat  meal  fine  i  o-gg 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter  2  teaspoons  salt 

2  teaspoons,   rounded,    of     3  tablespoons  sugar 
baking-powder. 

Fill  gem  pans  half  full,  bake  thirty-five  minutes  in 
moderate  oven.  Make  thin  enough  to  pour.  This 
fills  eight  pans.  One  can  easily  double  any  of  these 
recipes  for  a  large  family. 

Raised  INIuffins. 

1  pint  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  flour  .      ^  cup  yeast 

2  eggs  I  teaspoon  salt 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  butter,  when  cool  enough 
add  the  salt  and  flour,  beat  well  and  let  sponge  over 
night.  Then  add  the  eggs  beaten  separately,  beat 
well,  put  in  buttered  gem  pans,  let  stand  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  till  light,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Crumpets. 

I  pint  milk  4  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  flour  Yz  cup  yeast 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Scald  the  milk;  when  cool  enough  stir  all  together, 

beat  vigorously  ten  minutes,  stand  in  a  warm  place 

till   light,  about   five   hours.      Butter  the  muffin  rings 

and  place   on   hot  greased  griddle.       Fill    each   ring 


The  Oitccn  Cook  Book  21 

half  full  of  the  batter;  bake  brown,  then  turn  with 
cake  turner  till  brown  on  the  other  side,  till  well 
cooked  in  center.  When  ready  to  use  them,  split 
open,  toast  and  butter  them  nicely,  and  serve  quickly 
while  hot. 

Bread  Biscuits. 
Take  one  pound  of  bread  dough,  more  or  less,  as 
needed.  When  it  is  being  molded  for  the  pans,  work 
into  it  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  at  first  chopping  it 
in  with  a  knife.  Sprinkle  flour  on  the  board  and 
knead  for  eight  minutes,  then  form  into  small  biscuits, 
place  in  your  pan,  keep  warm  till  light,  perhaps  two 
hours,  and  bake. 

Wheat  and  Indian  Bread. 

2  quarts  Indian  meal  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  quart  wheat  flour  i  cup  good  hop  yeast 
Scald  the   meal   with  boiling  water   till   as  thin   as 

mush;  when  cool,  so  as  not  to  kill  the  yeast,  stir  all 
together,  knead  it  as  soft  as  possible,  and  put  it  in 
baking  pan  to  rise;  when  it  cracks  open  and  looks 
light,  bake  two  hours  in  stove  oven  with  paper  over  it, 
to  keep  from  getting  too  hard,  leaving  it  in  warm  oven, 
not  hot,  all  night.  It  must  bake  moderately.  A 
brick  oven  is  the  best  for  leaving  in  all  night.  If 
liked,  add  two  tablespoons  of  molasses,  with  a  little 
soda  in  it. 

Corn  Bread  for  Breakfast. 

3  cups  white  corn  meal  or      i  teacup  white  sugar 
yellow  corn  meal  i  heaping  tablespoon  but- 

2  cups  wheat  flour  ter 
2  heaping  teaspoons  bak-     2  eggs 

ing-powder  Milk  as  needed 

This  is  for  teacup  measure.     Mix  it  soft  so  as  to 


22  ■  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

pour  out  into  baking  pan,  have  it  an  inch  thick,  corn 
meal  swells  very  nnich.  Bake  three-fourths  of  an 
hour.      Cut  in  pieces  like  cake. 

Corn  Bread. 

2  cups  corn  meal  2  ^  cups  sweet  milk 

1  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  eggs  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder    2  teaspoons  salt 

Breakfast  Puffs. 

1  cup  milk  I  cup  flour 

2  eggs — salt  2  tablespoons  cream 
Have  the  cups  or  gem  pans  hot  and  only  half  full. 

Waffles, 

I  pint  sour  cream  having     i  heaping  pint  flour 
one-half  milk  i  even  teaspoon  soda 

3  eggs — salt 
To  be  baked  in  waffle  irons  at  just  the  right  heat  to 
be  brown  when  done.      Eat  with  butter  and  powdered 
sugar  or  maple  syrup.      Very  nice  for  tea.      Beat  eggs 
light. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

Get  buckwheat  free  from  grit.  It  is  also  adulter- 
ated with  r3'e.  Into  one  pint  warm  water  put  one  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  two  cups  of  buckwheat  flour,  and  one- 
half  cup  yeast.  Beat  well  and  stand  in  a  warm  place 
twenty-four  hours.  Dissolve  one-half  teaspoon,  or  less 
at  first,  of  saleratus,  in  water  enough  to  make  the  bat- 
ter as  thin  as  you  can  turn  them,  and  bake  brown  and 
dry.  Beat  thoroughly,  bake  on  a  hot  griddle.  Leave 
a  cup  of  this  batter  in  jar  to  start  the  next  with.  I 
bake  every  other  morning,  stirring  up  over  night.     After 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  23 

the  first  time,  they  will  need  a  full  teaspoon  of  sale- 
ratus  to  make  sufficiently  sweet.  Stir  up  entirely 
new  ones  with  new  yeast  every  three  weeks. 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes. 

One  pint  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk  over  night. 
Rub  through  a  colander,  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  a 
teaspoon  salt,  a  cup  of  flour,  with  just  milk  enough  to 
make  a  thin  batter.  Teaspoon  baking-powder  sifted 
in  Hour. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes. 

These  are  made  the  same  way  as  the  bread  griddle 
cakes,  using  the  rice  boiled  to  a  jell  and  hot,  instead 
of  bread.      Or  use  rice  flour. 

Sweet  Corn  Griddle  Cakes. 

I  pint  grated  corn  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  iiour  Milk  enough  to  mix  well 

I  tablespoon  melted  butter     i  teaspoon  baking-powder 

4  eggs 

Flour  Griddle  Cakes. 

Sift  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  into  one  pint 
of  flour.  Stir  in  one  cup  of  sweet  cream,  and  milk 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter  with  two  beaten  eggs. 
One  teaspoon  of  salt.  I  think  all  griddle  cakes  are 
more  tender  wet  with  sour  milk  or  sour  cream  and 
soda.  Half  cream  and  half  milk.  A  great  deal 
depends  upon  the  right  heat  of  griddle. 

Cream  Short  Cake. 

1  quart  flour  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sour  or  sweet  cream     i  even  teaspoon  soda 

If  sweet  cream  is  used,  use  two  teaspoons  of  baking 


24  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

powder  instead  of  soda.  If  one  has  no  cream,  can 
use  two  cups  sweet  milk  and  two  tablespoons  of  butter 
cut  with  a  knife  into  the  flour,  with  salt  and  baking 
powder.  Whenever  baking  powder  is  used  it  should 
be  sifted  twice  through  the  fiour  with  the  salt.  Roll 
out  long  and  bake  in  long  tin;  cross  the  top  with  three 
tined  fork.  Some  prefer  to  cut  them  into  biscuit,  I 
think  they  are  better. 

Orange  Short  Cake. 

I  quart  flour  i  Q.gg 

I  cup  and  three  tablespoons   i  teaspoon  salt 

milk  2  heaping  teaspoons   bak- 

I  tablespoon  white  sugar  ing-powder 

3  tablespoons  butter 
This  quantity  makes  two  short  cakes 
Sift  baking  powder  and  salt  through  flour  twice; 
then  chop  the  butter  in  Hour,  then  rub  it  in.  Mix  the 
whole  together  as  quickly  and  with  as  little  hand- 
ling as  possible.  Roll  into  three  sheets,  long  as 
your  tin,  each  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Bake,  laying 
one  sheet  on  top  of  the  other,  butter  the  under  sheets 
lightly.  Slice  the  oranges  while  it  is  baking,  pour  off 
the  juice,  sprinkle  well  with  granulated  sugar.  As 
quick  as  baked,  separate  the  sheet,  spread  with  butter 
and  put  a  thick  layer  of  oranges  between  the  two 
layers.  Set  it  in  oven  four  minutes.  The  oranges 
should  be  cut  from  around  the  core  in  small  pieces, 
taking  out  all  the  seeds.  This  is  delicious.  This  is 
the  best  kind  of  crust  for  strawberry  shortcake. 

Maryland  Biscuit. 

I  quart  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

^  pint  milk  and  water  each    i  teaspoon  salt 

Rub  the  salt  and  butter  well  in  the  Hour,  add  the 


The  Qiicoi  Cook  Book  25 

wetting  gradually  to  the  flour,  stirring  and  kneading  all 
the  while — add  just  enough  to  moisten  the  flour,  the 
dough  must  be  very  stiff;  knead  five  minutes;  and  beat 
with  the  back  of  an  ax  thirty  minutes.  Then  form 
into  small  round  biscuits,  stick  with  a  fork  three  times, 
each  one,  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  about 
twenty-five  minutes.      Brown  on  top  and  bottom. 

Egg  Biscuit. 

I  quart  flour  5  tablespoons  butter 

5  tablespoons  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

5  eggs  well  beaten  i  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  the  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  bakmg-powder  together 
twice,  then  rub  the  butter  m,  and  add  the  eggs;  knead 
until  light  and  elastic,  cover  with  a  damp  cloth,  let 
stand  fifteen  minutes.  Roll  out  into  a  sheet  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  round  cutter.  Drop  a  few 
at  a  time  into  boiling  water,  till  edges  curl,  then  into 
cold  water  for  a  minute,  place  in  buttered  pans,  bake 
in  moderate  oven  to  a  light  brown. 

Corn  Meal  Mush. 

To  three  pints  of  boiling  water  add  one  pint  of  corn 
meal,  a  heaping  teaspoon  salt;  wet  the  meal  with  one 
pint  of  this  water  before  heating;  then  when  the  two 
pints  boil,  stir  in  the  wet  meal;  keep  it  where  it  will  just 
boil  good  and  not  burn  for  a  full  hour  or  more,  stirring 
often;  use  a  hard  wood  paddle,  two  feet  long,  with  a 
blade  two  inches  wide  and  seven  inches  long  to 
stir  with.  The  secret  of  good  mush  is  its  thorough  cook- 
ing, which  gives  it  the  relish.  It  needs  to  be  stiff 
enough  to  slice  when  cold.  You  can  double  or 
treble  this  quantity  according  to  si;?e  of  family. 


26  •  The  On  ecu  Cook  Book 


Fried  Mush. 


An  acceptable  breakfast  dish  is  made  by  slicing  cold 
nuish  thin  and  frying  in  half  butter  and  half  lard. 
Can  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  if  you 
like  it. 

Oat  Meal,  Cracked  Wheat,  Hominy,  Rice. 

For  one  even  tea  cup  full  of  oat  meal  washed  in 
three  waters,  pour  on  one  good  pint  and  a  half  of  good 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  it  in  double 
boiler;  let  it  sv/ell  for  one  hour  at  the  boiling 
point,  stirring  four  times;  then  let  it  just  boil  for 
another  hour.  If  you  have  no  milk  use  water,  but  it 
is  not  so  good.  Cook  cracked  wheat,  hominy  and  rice 
the  same  way.  Wash  each  till  there  are  no  black 
specks  in  the  water.  I  have  washed  one  cup  of  hominy 
in  ten  waters,  before  I  stopped  looking  for  black  specks. 
Keep  the  water  in  motion  as  you  pour  it  off,  so 
the  specks  will  rise.  Homin}'  is  the  white  southern 
corn.  If  you  wish  either  of  these  for  breakfast  put  a 
little  water  on  it  the  night  before;  it  will  swell 
over  night. 

Plain  Fritters. 

I  cup  milk  2  eggs 

I  ^  cups  flour  I  teaspoon  salt 

I  teaspoon  baking-powder 
Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  twice,  beat  the 
eggs  to  a  froth,  then  beat  all  thoroughly  together,  stiff 
enough  to  cut  soft  with  a  spoon  to  drop  into  boil- 
ing lard;  when  brown  on  one  side  turn  and  brown  on 
the  other;  a  wire  skimmer  is  best  to  take  them  out 
with;  then  sprinkle  fine  sugar  over  them  while  hot,  and 
cinnamon  if  you  like.      If  fat  gets  too  hot  drop  in  two  or 


TJic  Qui'oi  Cook  Book  27 

three  slices  of  raw  potatoes  or  a  bit  of  dry  bread,  which 
furnishes  something  for  the  heat  to  act  upon.  Test 
the  heat  also  by  dropping  in  a  little  bit  of  batter.  If 
the  heat  is  right  it  will  quickly  rise  in  a  light  ball  with 
a  splutter,  and  soon  brown;  serve  hot. 

Pork  fritters  are  made  by  dropping  bits  of  fried 
breakfast  bacon  in  the  batter.  Fruit  fritters  by 
dipping  quarters  or  halves  in  batter,  having  one  piece 
in  each  fritter.  Moisten  the  flour  with  milk  an  hour 
before  using,  that  the  flour  may  swell  and  thus  be 
lighter.  Do  not  put  a  fork  in  them;  lay  them  on 
brown  paper  to  drain  a  minute. 

Sweet  Corn  Oyster  Fritters. 

2  finely  floured  crackers,    i  pint  grated  sweet  corn 

or  more  if  needed  2  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper 

Must  hold  together  well. 

Beat  well  together;  have  ready  in  spider  your  hot 
lard  (half  of  it  beef  drippings  is  better,  they  will  not 
soak  fat  so  much)  but  not  scorching  hot,  drop  in  little 
cakes  about  the  size  of  an  oyster,  when  brown  turn 
and  fry  on  the  other  side,  watching  constantly  for  fear 
of  burning.  If  fat  is  just  right  heat,  the  corn  fritter 
will  be  light  and  delicious;  if  not,  soggy.  Beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  just  before  frying.  Serve 
hot  to  eat  with  meats;  have  them  cooking  while  the 
table  is  being  served. 

Japanese  Fritters. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  slices  a  half  inch  thick,  then 
cut  the  slices  in  pieces  about  two  inches  square.  Soak 
these  squares  in  fritter  batter,  about  one  minute  and 
fry  in  boiling  fat,  turning  them  as  they  brown;  when 


28  Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book 

done  skim  out  witli  wire  skimmer,  lay  on  brown  paper, 
serve  hot.      Serve  with  fairy  sauce,  or  maple  syrup. 

French  Fritters. 

I  tumbler  water  ^  cup  butter 

I  teaspoon  sugar  i  teaspoon  salt 

Put  all  together  in  stew  pan  on  the  stove,  and  when 
well  heated  so  that  the  butter  is  thoroughly  melted, 
stir  in  rapidly  one  heaping  pint  of  llour.  Take  it  from 
the  fire  and  break  in  one  ^gg,  blend  it  and  break  in 
another,  and  then  another,  till  five  have  been  broken 
in;  then  in  very  hot  lard  and  butter  drop  spoonfuls 
of  this  mixture  and  cook  as  fritters.  When  you  take 
them  out  roll  them  in  sugar  and  cinnamon,  or  eat  with 
fairy  butter,  as  3'ou  like. 

From  a  FrcncJi  Chef  211  Heidelberg. 

Fried  Cakes. 

I  cup  milk  I  tablespoon  butter 

I  cup  fine  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

I  teaspoon  salt  i  egg 

Sift  the  baking  powder  into  fiour  enough  to  make  a 
soft  dough,  say  one  quart  or  more  of  fiour.  Roll  out 
one-half  inch  thick  or  less,  then  cut  in  strips  and 
twist,  or  cut  with  cutter,  then  with  smaller  cutter  cut 
a  hole  in  center  and  fry  in  fat. 

Queen  of  Doughnuts. 

I  cup  butter  i  5^  cups  sugar 

I  small  cup  yeast  i  %  pints  milk 

5  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

Stir  all  well  together  in  stiff  sponge  over  night, 
after  you  have  stirred  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
and  beaten  the   eggs  separately,  have  the  milk  warm 


The  Oitccn  Cook  Book  29 

and  add  the  yeast.  Make  them  stiff  enough  \\\  the 
morning  after  kneading  well  to  roll  out;  pinch  off 
pieces  as  large  as  a  walnut,  roll  into  balls,  let  rise,  roll 
out  some,  and  cut  in  rings,  or  whatever  form  you  like, 
sprinkle  a  clean  napkin  (which  lay  on  the  board)  or  two 
slightly  with  flour,  lay  the  cakes  on  napkins  on  board, 
cover  lightly,  let  rise;  roll  about  one-half  inch  thick, 
keep  warm,  after  they  are  cut  out,  let  stand  from 
thirty  to  fifty  minutes,  then  have  ready  a  spider  of 
boiling  fat  (suet  is  best);  put  the  cakes  into  this  fat 
upside  down,  that  is,  the  side  that  was  top  on  the 
napkin,  should  be  the  under  side  in  the  fat,  because 
the  crust  which  forms  on  top  prevents  them  from  rising. 
As  soon  as  they  rise  and  are  brown  on  the  under 
side  slip  the  fork  under  the  cake  and  turn.  Cook  them 
done  through.  Drain  on  brown  paper.  If  you  prefer 
it  sift  together  powdered  sugar,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg, 
and  sift  it  on  cakes  while  hot. 

Very  Nice  Raised  Doughnuts. 

I  quart  raised  dough  i  tablespoon  butter 

I  cup  sugar  i  q^^^.   i  teaspoon  salt 

Work  thoroughly  together,  roll  one-half  inch  thick, 
cut  in  what  shape  you  like  and  let  rise  thirty  or  fifty 
minutes,  then  fry  in  hot  fat  as  other  cakes. 


DRINKS. 


TEA. 

The  tea  plant  in  its  mild  state  is  a  bushy  shrub,  and 
sometimes  a  small  tree,  but  in  cultivation  is  kept 
dwarfed.  Like  other  plants  long  in  cultivation,  the 
cultivation  has  produced  several  varieties.  The  orig- 
inal country  of  tea  is  not  known.  It  was  found 
in  a  wild  state  in  Assam.      It  only  grows  in  very  warm 


30  Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book 

climates.  The  Portuguese  arc  said  to  have  been  the 
first  to  import  tea  into  Europe,  and  were  acquainted 
with  it  as  early  as  the  sixteenth  century.  In  1664  it 
is  recorded  that  the  English  East  India  Company 
made  the  Queen  of  England  what  was  considered  the 
brilliant  present  of  two  pounds  of  tea.  Previous 
to  this,  and  at  this  time  it  was  the  custom  among  Eu- 
ropean nations  to  make  tea  of  hot  infusions  of  various 
kinds  of  leaves,  notably  those  of  the  sage  (salvia), 
which  at  one  time  had  a  high  reputation,  and  was 
regarded  as  a  sort  of  panacea.  Indeed,  it  is  a  good 
hot  drink,  for  one  who  has  just  taken  a  cold.  Its 
dried  leaves  were  taken  to  China  by  the  Dutch  East 
India  Company  to  be  exchanged  for  tea.  Teas  are 
classed  as  black  and  green,  distinctions  not  due 
to  the  production  of  different  species,  but  to  the  age 
of  the  leaf  when  gathered,  and  the  methods  of  prep- 
aration. It  is  raised  in  abundance  in  China,  Japan, 
East  Indies,  and  now  some  in  California.  The 
'quality  of  the  tea  depends  largely  upon  the  age  of  the 
leaves  at  the  time  of  picking.  The  younger  the 
leaves  the  more  delicate  their  liavor.  There  are  four 
different  pickings  through  the  season.  Teas  of  the 
cheaper  kind  are  very  much  adulterated.  Never  buy 
the  powdered  tea.  The  best  quality  of  black  teas  is 
the  pekoa.  The  best  green  teas  are  the  best  Japan, 
and  the  gunpowder,  (which  are  the  first  gatherings),  are 
the  best.  Excessive  use  of  tea  produces  wakefulness 
and  increased  mental  and  bodily  activity,  which  is  fol- 
lowed by  a  reaction  that  brings  exhaustion  and  a  cor- 
responding depression.  Most  of  the  unpleasant  effects 
of  tea  are  ascribed  to  the  volatile  oil.  The  long  con- 
tinued breathing  of  air  impregnated  with  this  oil,  pro- 
duces illness  in  the  packers  of  tea,  who  press  it  down 
with  their  bare  feet;    and  the   tea  tasters  at  the  tea 


TJic  Ov.ccu  Cook  Book  3 1 

marts  in  China,  who  are  ever  careful  not  to  swallow 
the  infusion,  are  obliged  in  a  few  years  to  give  up  their 
lucrative  positions,  with  shattered  constitutions.  The 
Chinese,  who  drink  tea  at  all  times,  are  careful  to  use 
none  less  than  a  year  old,  as  in  that  time  the  oil  either 
evaporates  or  is  sp  modified  that  it  ceases  to  be 
injurious.  Is  it  not  safer  not  to  drink  tea  at  all,  and 
healthier  and  more  nourishing  to  drink  milk  either  hot 
or  cold  (but  do  not  boil)  for  supper  or  have  a  cup  of 
hot  cocoa,  or  chocolate  made  of  milk  .''  The  best  way 
to  steep  all  kinds  of  tea  is,  take  one  even  teaspoon  of 
green  tea  for  two  cups  of  boiling  water,  after  you  have 
brought  it  just  to  a  quick  boil  with  two  tablespoons  of 
water.  Black  tea  is  coarser,  take  a  heaping  teaspoon 
for  two  cups  and  steep  it  the  same  way.  The  old 
custom  of  boiling  black  tea  twenty  minutes  makes  it 
blacker,  but  not  a  refreshing  cup  of  tea.  Wash  and 
dry  the  tea  steeper,  tea  pot,  coffee  boiler  and  coffee 
pot,  every  time  they  are  used,  as  much  as  you  do  your 
silver;  and  scald  them  well  before  using.  Do  not  use 
a  metal  tea  pot.      Green  teas  are  an  astringent. 

Cocoa. 

Cocoa  or  chocolate  nuts  are  the  seeds  of  Theobroma 
cacao,  a  handsome  tree  from  fifteen  to  twenty  feet  in 
heighth  growing  in  Mexico,  the  West  Indies  and  South 
America.  These  seeds  are  roasted  and  ground  and  the 
oil  partly  extracted.  These  seeds  make  our  cocoa. 
To  make  good  cocoa  allow  one  teaspoon  to  every  cup 
of  milk.  Put  the  quantity  of  milk  according  to  the 
number  of  persons  to  drink  it  in  a  double  boiler. 
When  it  boils  wet  the  cocoa,  work  it  fine,  put  it  in  the 
hot  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes  and  let  it  settle. 


32  The  Qitccu  Cook  Book 


Chocolate. 

Chocolate  is  the  cocoa  nut  pounded  to  a  paste  in  a 
hot  mortar;  mixed  with  sugar,  starch,  cinnamon  and 
vanilla  it  forms  the  chocolate  of  commerce.  To  make 
good  chocolate  take  one  tablespoon  of  the  sweetened 
grated  chocolate  to  each  cup  of  milk.  Put  the 
required  quantity  of  milk  in  double  boiler;  when  it  is 
hot  wet  the  powder  fine,  put  it  in  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes.  Serve  with  sweetened  whipped  cream,  two 
tablespoons  on  top  of  each  cup. 

Coffee. 

CofTee  is  the  seed  of  the  coffee  tree  which  grows 
wild  in  southern  Abyssinia  and  western  Africa  in  great 
profusion,  and  there  it  has  been  in  use  from  very 
remote  times.  It  attains  the  height  of  eight  to  twenty 
and  sometimes  thirty  feet.  To  increase  its  produc- 
tiveness and  for  convenience  of  gathering  in  cultiva- 
tion it  is  kept  as  low  as  five  feet.  Its  trunk  is  covered 
with  a  grayish  bark,  'and  its  white  blossoms  growing 
from  the  angles  of  the  leaf  stalk,  three  to  four  in 
number,  resembling  in  form  the  jasmine  blossoms, 
often  suddenly  appear  scattered  among  the  dark 
leaves  like  flakes  of  snow.  The  plant  being  an  ever- 
green, the  foliage  is  always  fresh.  Like  the  orange, 
it  has  blossoms  and  green  and  ripe  fruit  of  every  grade 
at  the  same  time,  so  the  ripe  coffee  may  be  gathered 
at  various  seasons,  but  the  real  harvests  are  usually 
two.  The  fruit  when  ripe  becomes  red  and  finally 
dark  purple.  It  resembles  a  cherry.  Each  berry 
contains  two  seeds,  their  flat  sides  are  opposed  to  each 
other  in  the  center  of  the  pulp.  In  the  West  Indies 
the  fruit  is  picked  by  hand,  but  in  Arabia,  where  no 
rains  prevail  to  beat  it  from  the  trees,  it  is  allowed  to 


TJic  O/itcn  Cook  Book  33 

remain  till  ready  to  fall,  and  is  then  shaken  off  upon 
clollis  spread  upon  the  ground.  Its  perfect  ripeness 
may  be  one  reason  of  its  superior  quality.  The  cul- 
tivation of  coffee  is  widely  diffused  throughout  the 
tropics.  Coffee  should  only  be  scorched  thoroughly 
through  to  a  light  brown,  not  a  dark  chestnut  brown. 
A  slight  excess  of  heat  injures  the  quality  of  the  coffee. 
Brown  it  in  a  sheet  iron  pan  in  the  oven,  stirring  it 
often  and  watch  it  closely,  about  one  pound  at  a  time. 
As  soon  as  browned  empty  in  a  tight  box. 

Brown  only  enough  at  a  time  to  last  one  week  for 
your  family.  If  yoxi  buy  your  coffee  roasted  do  so  in 
small  quantities.  Keep  it  in  a  tightly  covered  fruit  jar, 
and  grind  just  before  using;  grind  fine,  not  floured,  as 
it  is  quicker  settled  Mocha  coffee,  which  is  known  by 
its  small,  roundish  grains,  agreeable  odor  and  flavor, 
is  preferred  to  all  others.  The  Java,  a  large,  flat 
grain,  is  next  in  quality.  Some  like  it  mixed  three- 
fourths  Java,  one-fourth  Mocha,  or  one-half  each. 
The  Brazilian  coffees  are  between  the  two  in  size  and 
inferior  to  both  in  flavor.  It  is  preferable  to  purchase 
coffee  unroasted,  as  the  roasted  and  ground  are  mostly 
adulterated.  The  darker  the  coffee  is  roasted  the 
niore  injurious  its  effects.  Some  people  can  not  drink 
it  at  all;  some  can  only  drink  it  in  the  morning.  Some 
people  of  a  full  habit  can  not  use  it  because  it  pro- 
duces dizziness,  on  others  it  produces  nervousness  and 
others  wLkefulness. 

To  Make  Coffee. 

Measure  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  the  berry  for 
each  cup,  grind  it  fine  but  not  like  flour,  then  for  four 
or  six,  stir  in  one-fourth  of  an  eg^,  and  one-half  pint 
of  coid  water  in  a  bowl,  beat  it  well  with  a  fork,  put  it 
in  coffee  boiler  and  add  one  cup  of  boiling  water  for 


34  "  TJic  Ouccn  Cook  Book 

each  spoonful  of  coffee,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  five  min- 
utes. If  there  are  six  persons  or  more,  add  one  cup  of 
water  extra  for  waste. 

To  Make  Coffee  Without  Boiling. 
An  infusion  made  just  below  boiling  point  is  thought 
by  some  to  be  much  better  than  a  decoction  made 
by  boiling.  Purchase  a  coffee  pot  for  table  made  with 
a  cloth  strainer  to  put  your  coffee  in  without  ^^^g,  pour 
the  water  boiling  hot  upon  it  just  as  you  are  ready  for 
breakfast.  It  will  be  ready  in  ten  minutes.  Always 
put  the  sugar  and  cream  into  the  cup  before  pouring 
the  coffee,  the  scalding  of  the  sugar  and  cream  enriches 
the  coffee. 

Another  Way  of  Making  Coffee. 

Mix  it  with  egg  and  cold  water  then  put  it  in  coffee 
pot,  with  boiling  water  on  it,  let  soak  for  fifteen  min- 
utes and  then  just  come  to  a  boil.  In  browning  coffee 
it  must  be  a  light  brown,  not  dark  brown,  or  burnt.  It 
should  be  ground  fine,  but  not  to  a  flour. 


SOUPS. 


Soups  should  be  made  nutritious,  healthful  and 
palatable,  with  flavoring  so  commingled,  or  delicately 
blended  that  no  one  can  be  detected.  As  every  good 
cook  knows  the  right  way  to  use  salt  and  pepper  is  to 
not  have  the  food  taste  of  either,  but  simply  to  give  it 
strength  or  body.  How  insipid  any  soup  would  be 
without  salt  and  pepper  however  rich  the  broth.  Mrs. 
Rorer  says,  "  The  most  important  point  in  making  good 
soup  is  to  have  the  best  of  materials.  To  make  our 
soup  a  perfect  food  we  must  change  the  solid  meat 
into  a  liquid  form;  to  do  this,  we  must  first  soften  the 
fibrin,  so  as  to  draw  out  the  juices  and  blood,  consist- 


The  Ouccii  Cook  Book  35 

ing  of  albumen  and  fat;  the  gelatine,  which  exists  in 
the  bone,   cartilages,   membranes  and  skin,   which  is 
nitrogenous  matter,  but  not  nutritious,  and  the  osma- 
zome,  that  substance  which  gives  odor  and  flavor.     As 
a  low  degree  of  heat  changes  the  albumen  into  a  solid 
form,  we  at  once  see  the  necessity  of  using  cold,  soft 
water.  ■    Soft  water  because  it  makes  its  way  into  the 
tissues  more  readily  than  hard  water,  thereby  soften- 
ing the  texture  of  the  meat  and  allowing  the  juices  to 
escape  more  easily;  and  we  also  see  the  importance  of 
not  boiling  the  soup,  as  the  albumen  on  the  surface  of 
the    meat   innnediately   coagulates   and    prevents   the 
gelatine,  fat  and  osmazome  from  dissolving  and  being 
drawn  out  into  the  water.      Have  a  granite  iron  soup 
kettle  with  a  close  cover,      ^^'hy  .'     Because  the  juices 
of  the  meat  are  always  acid  and  will  act  upon  a  metal- 
lic kettle,  thereby  giving  the  soup  an  inky  bitter  taste. 
A  close  cover  to  keep  in  the  steam  and  prevent  evap- 
oration. "    A  good  soup-maker  (as  well  as  a  good  cook) 
should  be  a  skillful  taster;  keep  a  spoon  on  purpose 
for  it.      To  make  a  nourishing  soup  one   must  have 
meat  as  well  as  bone.    The  best  stock  for  soup  is  beef, 
mutton,    lamb  and   chicken;  some   like  a  bit   of  ham 
added,  for  a  change.      The  legs  of  all  meats  are  rich 
in  gelatine.     Any  meat  soup  is  poor  that  does  not  jelly 
when    cold.      If    one   wishes  light   colored  stock  use 
light  colored   meats,  such  as  veal  or  chicken.      Make 
your  soup  stock  the  day  before  you  w^ish  to  use  it;  let 
it  stand  over  night,  then   take  off  all  the  fat  (which 
simmer  and  cleanse  for  browning  mush  and  potatoes), 
when  it  is  ready  to  f^a\'or,  thicken  and  serve,  unless 
you  wish  a  bouillon.      It  is  a  good  plan  to  make  stock 
enough    at    one  time    for  two  or  three  days  in  cool 
weather,   using  it   every  other  day.      It  gives   variety 
and    economizes    labor.       Always    use    fresh    meats. 


36  TJic  Ouccii  Cook  Book 

Dash  a  dipper  of  cold  water  over  the  meat  to  cleanse 
it  from  specks  or  hairs;  it  takes  the  juices  out  to  lay  it 
in  water. 

To  every  pound  of  meat  and  bones  allow  one 
quart  of  water,  which  will  just  about  cover  it  nicely. 
Some  authors  say  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  two 
inches  square,  keeping  it  at  just  simmering  heat,  but 
not  boil,  from  four  to  five  hours  (try  it),  but  I  ha^•c 
always  had  good,  nourishing  soups  by  keeping  it  just 
at  a  boiling  point  from  three  to  four  hours,  putting 
the  salt  in  when  it  is  first  put  over,  it  will  not  bear 
enough  to  season  the  meat,  but  just  for  the  w-ater; 
skim  it  before  it  boils,  and  wipe  the  scum  off  that 
clings  to  the  kettle.  The  goodness  is  all  out  when 
the  meat  is  juiceless.  If  you  wish  to  use  the  best 
pieces  of  the  meat  cold,  sliced  off  for  supper,  or  for  a 
stew  for  breakfast,  take  out  the  best  pieces  for  it  in 
two  hours  and  let  the  rest  boil  longer.  Keep  a  tea 
kettle  of  hot  water  to  add  to  it  if  needed;  and  also 
tightly  covered.  Nice  additions  to  soups  are  rice, 
vermicelli,  macaroni,  parsley,  celery,  celery  seeds 
and  all  kinds  of  vegetables;  the  first  three,  require 
one-half  a  tea  cupfull  to  three  quarts  of  stock.  Some 
prefer  only  one  kind  at  a  time.  All  vegetables  should 
be  boiled  by  themselves,  throw  the  water  away 
and  put  the  vegetables  through  a  sei\e.  For  thicken- 
ing it  takes  two  tablespoons  of  tiour  for  each  quart  of 
soup.  As  nice  a  soup  as  one  needs  to  eat  is  made  of 
beef  stock,  thickened,  parsle}^  and  celery  tied 
together,  with  croutons  in  the  tureen.  If  )ou  wish 
clear  soup  you  can  clarify  it  with  the  white  of  an  Q.gg, 
and  strain  it,  making  a  perfectly  clear  soup,  but 
stimulating  rather  than  nutritious;  as  the  boiling  and 
straining  takes  away  its  albumen  and  fibrin;  as  we 
can  not  have  a  very  clear,  and  a  very  nutritious  soup 


T]ic  Qucoi  Cook  Book  37 

at  the  same  time.  In  a  family  of  six  or  more,  the 
bones  and  trimmings  from  two  or  more  steaks,  and 
from  the  roast  beef  of  the  day  before,  boiled  three 
hours,  will  make  a  tolerable  soup.  Flavor  with  cel- 
ery and  parsley;  thicken  and  pour  onto  croutons,  or 
rolled  crackers. 

Croutons. 

Cut  a  slice  of-  stale  bread  twice  as  thick  as  for 
table  use,  spread  the  top  lightly  with  butter,  then 
cut  into  dice,  toast  in  oven  on  tin  plate. 

Browning  for  Soups. 

Put  three  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar  and  one 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  in  an  iron  spider  over 
the  lire;  stir  all  the  time  so  it  will  not  really  burn, 
until  it  is  of  a  bright  brown  color,  and  gives  forth  a 
burning  smell,  add  a  half  pint  of  hot  water,  boil 
and  skim,    when  cold  bottle  for  use;  use  as  needed. 

To  Make  Caramel. 

Brown  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  until  it  melts 
and  burns,  add  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  boil  one 
minute.  Bottle,  cork  tight.  This  is  used  for  color- 
ing soups. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup. 

Boil  twelve  stalks  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  in 
three  pints  of  w^ater  for  half  an  hour  till  tender.  Add 
half  an  onion  and  two  blades  of  mace,  and  pass 
through  a  sieve.  Mix  one  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  to  the  soup  one 
pint  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


38    '  TJic  Qiieoi  Cook  Book 

Tomato  Soup  (queen  of  soups). 

1  pint  cooked  tomatoes  i  teaspoon  soda 

2  quarts  soft  water  Salt  and  pepper 
I  pint  cream  ^i  pint  milk 

Gently  boil  the  tomatoes  and  water  one  hour  cov- 
ered tight,  then  strain.  Add  one  even  teaspoon  salt, 
then  the  soda  a  part  at  a  time,  so  it  will  not  foam  over, 
then  the  cream,  milk  and  pepper,  and  pour  it,  after  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  on  four  tablespoons  of  finely  rolled 
cracker.      The  cream  is  indispensable  in  this  soup. 

Tomato  Soup  (very  nice). 

I  quart  beef  stock  i  quart  milk 

I  quart  strained  tomatoes      Salt  and  pepper 
4  tablespoons  butter  4  tablespoons  flour 

Heat  the  strained  tomatoes  boiling  hot  and  put  in 
soda  enough  to  take  out  the  acid  (should  say  about 
two  even  teaspoons),  stir  the  butter  and  flour  to  a 
cream,  then  add  all  together  and  boil  three  minutes  to 
cook  the  flour,  stirring  all  the  time. 

Green  Pea  Soup. 

I  quart  green  peas  i  tablespoon  flour 

I  quart  soft  water  i  tablespoon  butter 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

First  wash  your  pea  pods  before  shelling,  and  souse 
them  well,  to  get  the  dust  and  sand  off.  Do  not  wash 
the  peas  after  they  are  shelled  as  you  loose  the  sweet 
juice  that  is  in  the  inside  of  the  pod.  Shell  them  and 
put  them  into  the  cold  water,  with  salt,  boil  about 
twenty  minutes  till  fit  for  eating,  according  to  age. 
Rub  through  a  sieve,  return  to  soup  kettle  with  a  pint 
or  more  of  milk  or  cream.  Stir  butter  and  flour 
together  smoothly  then  stir  it  in  boiling  soup,  boil  five 


The   Oil  ecu  Cook  Book  39 

minutes  to  cook  the  floor.  Beat  the  yolks  well,  add 
two  tablespoons  of  milk  to  thin  them  and  stir  it  in  the 
soup;  season. 

Green  Corn  Soup. 

I  pint  grated  corn  2  tablespoons  butter 

I  quart  of  water,  or  mutton      i  tablespoon  flour 

stock  Salt  and  pepper 

I  quart  milk 

Put  the  corn  in  the  water  cold,  boil  five  minutes, 
scrape  the  milk  from  cob,  rub  flour  and  butter  together, 
put  in  your  milk;  if  you  have  cream,  use  one  pint 
cream,  and  one  pint  milk;  when  hot  stir  in  the  worked 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  boil  to  cook  the  flour  three 
minutes. 

Asparagus  Soup. 

Wash  the  asparagus,  using  only  the  top  about  three 
inches  long,  tie  in  bunches  of  six  or  eight  stalks  each, 
boil  in  water  enough  to  cover,  with  a  little  salt  (aspar- 
agus bears  less  salt  than  any  other  vegetable).  Boil 
six  minutes  and  throw  away  the  water;  then  put  on 
the  cup  of  water  and  boil  till  tender,  then  rub  through 
a  colander,  stir  the  butter  and  flour  together,  put  all 
together  with  pepper  and  salt,  boil  to  cook  the  flour. 
If  preferred  use  veal  stock  instead  of  milk,  with  the 
cup  of  cream.  Early  asparagus  boils  tender  very 
quickly. 

Haricot  (harako)  Soup. 

One  and  a  half  pints  of  good  small  white  beans, 
wash  and  soak  over  night  in  luke-warm  water.  In  the 
morning  drain  off  this  water,  cover  with  fresh  cold 
soft  water,  bring  slowly  to  a  boil  for  thirty  minutes, 
drain  off  this  water.     Take  three   pounds  of  beef  or 


40  The  OiiscJi  Cook  Book 

a  good  sized  shin-bone  and  put  the  beans  and  beef  in 
four  quarts  of  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil  slowly,  skim- 
ming often.  Keep  hot  water  to  add  as  fast  as  it  boils 
away.  Slice  and  fry  an  onion  and  put  it  in  with  salt,  six 
cloves,  a  dozen  peppers  and  some  parsle}'.  Boil  for 
three  hours  till  the  meat  will  fall  from  the  bones.  Stir 
from  bottom  often,  and  boil  slowly;  when  cooked  take 
out-  the  meat,  strain  the  soup,  which  should  be  four 
quarts,  through  a  colander,  mashing  the  beans,  let  no 
skins  go  through.  If  you  wish  it  to  be  superfine,  you 
can  slice  two  or  three  hard  boiled  eggs  and  put  in  the 
tureen  with  croutons  hot.  Boil  the  eggs  twelve 
minutes,  then  drop  into  cold  water  before  peeling  to 
prevent  the  discoloring  of  outside  of  yolk. 

Bob,  tlic  Sea   Cook. 

Plain  Bean  Soup. 

Prepare  the  beans  the  same  as  ia  the  preceding 
with  salt,  and  boil  in  soft  water,  one  pint  of  beans  to 
two  quarts  of  water,  boil  till  they  all  burst  open  very 
soft,  then  strain  through  a  soup  sieve;  return  to  the 
kettle,  add  a  little  butter  and  pepper  and  boil  up.  For 
a  change  you  can  boil  with  beans  two  bunches  of 
parsley  and  one  of  celery,  and  pour  on  croutons,  and 
two  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced,  and  one  lemon  sliced,  if 
liked. 

For  a  good  beef  stock  for  any  soup  or  bouillon  choose 
a  piece  of  round  of  beef  of  about  four  pounds;  have 
also  three  or  four  pounds  of  beef  leg  and  bones.  Put 
the  leg  of  beef  and  bones  in  a  pot  with  four  quarts  of 
cold  water.  Let  it  just  boil  for  three  hours.  Then 
cut  into  two  pieces  the  round  of  beef  and  put  in,  let 
boil  altogether  foi*  three  hours  more;  remove  the  piece 
of  round  of  beef  and  eat  plain,  and  dished  up  in  some 
of  the  bouillon;  thicken  for  a  breakfast  dish.      Strain 


The  Qi(i\'ii  Cook  Book  41 

the  bouillon  and  it  is  ready  for  any  kind  of  soup  you 
wish  to  make.  Keep  water  hot  to  add  to  it  as  it  boils 
out.  I  should  think  this  would  make  six  quarts  of 
rich  stock,  which  will  keep  well  in  cold  weather.  The 
reason  wh}-  the  roimd  is  put  in  last,  is  because  it 
would  be  overdone  and  tasteless  if  cooked  the  six 
hours. 

Bouillon. 

Bouillon  is  rich  stock,  made  from  beef  with  only 
pepper  and  salt.  Use  stock  like  the  abox'e,  or  buy 
soup  bones,  have  them  cracked,  with  meat  enough  on 
them  for  the  desired  quantit}-.  To  each  pound  of 
meat  and  bones  put  one  quart  and  one  pint  of  water. 
Allow  one  hour's  boiling  for  each  pound.  Cover 
tight;  only  just  boil,  skimming  as  it  rises.  When  the 
meat  is  separated  from  the  bones  and  looks  juiceless, 
take  it  up,  strain,  set  in  a  cool  place,  cover;  next  day 
skim  off  the  fat.  If  it  is  a  jellied  mass,  it  is  rich 
enough.  Bouillon  is  served  in  cups  half  full,  and 
must  be  very  hot,  at  fashionable  lunches  and  at  even- 
ing entertainments;  it  ma}'  be  used  to  form  a  dinner 
soup  by  boiling  celery  and  parsley  in  it,  thickening  it, 
and  adding  vermicelli  well  washed.  Or  make  vege- 
table soup  by  boiling  vegetables  in  water  by  themselves, 
mashing  through  a  sieve  or  cutting  them  up  as 
preferred. 

Consomme, 

2  pounds  lean  beef  Stalks  celery 

2  pounds  veal  Sprigs  parsley 

I  onion  i  bay  leaf 

4  quarts  cold  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

The  under  part  of  the  round  of  beef,  and  the 
knuckle  of  veal  are  the  best  for  this  soup.      Cut  all  the 


42  The  Oiiccii  Cook  Book 

'meat  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square.  Put  the  but- 
ter in  the  soup  kettle  and  let  it  brown.  Add  to  it  the 
meat  and  stir  cncr  the  fire  about  fi\-e  minutes,  or  until 
the  meat  is  a  n  e  rown.  Now,  cover  the  kettle  and 
let  it  simmer  fo  thirty  minutes.  Add  the  water  and 
let  simmer  for  four  hours.  Now  add  the  vegetables 
and  bay  leaf  and  simmer  one  hour  longer.  Strain 
through  a  soup  strainer  and  put  in  a  cool  place  to  cool. 
When  cold  remove  the  fat  and  it  is  ready  to  use. 
Thicken  a  little  and  pour  onto  croutons.  (It  can  be 
clarified  with  white  of  Q.gg  and  browned  with  caramel 
the  same  as  bouillon.) 

Julienne  SouPc 
2  quarts  stock  2   onion?  or  6  young  leeks 

2  carrots  i  head  cauliflower 

I  turnip  I  head  lettuce 

I  head  celery  3^  a  gill  green  peas 

I  pint  asparagus  heads 
Pare  and  cut  up  all  the  vegetables,  cut  the  celery 
into  bits,  the  head  of  cauliflower  into  flowerets.  Put 
them  into  a  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  fif- 
teen minutes,  then  drain  them  in  a  colander.  Melt  the 
stock  and  bring  it  to  a  boil;  put  the  vegetables  from 
the  colander  into  it,  simmer  half  an  hour.  Put  the 
peas  and  asparagus  heads  into  boiling  water  and  sim- 
mer them  for  twenty  minutes;  then  drain  and  add  to 
the  boiling  soup,  then  the  lettuce,  cut  into  pieces  (or 
chopped)  the  lettuce  should  cook  about  ten  minutes; 
add  salt  and  pepper,  serve  at  once. 

Vermicelli  or  Noodle  Soup. 
Two  quarts  of  beef    stock,   two  ounces  vermicelli, 
washed  and  cut  up;  season  to  taste;  boil  fifteen  min- 
utes.     Macaroni   soup   is   made    just   the    same  way, 
using  the  macaroni  instead  of  vermicelli. 


TJic  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book  43 

Vegetable  Soup  without  Meat. 
2  tablespoons  rice  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  quarts  water  i  tablespoon  flour 

I  head  celery  i  parsnip 

1  onion,  salt  i  sweet  potato 

2  white  potatoes  i  head  parsley 

Cook  the  rice  perfectly  soft;  cook  all  the  vegetables, 
throw  away  the  water;  put  them  through  a  colander; 
salt  them  just  right  for  eating.  Beat  the  butter  and 
flour  to  cream,  first  browning  the  butter  with  one  tea- 
spoon of  sugar;  add  one  cup  of  sweet  cream  if  you  have 
it.  Do  not  let  the  vegetables  get  cold,  but  stir  gradu- 
ally on  them  the  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  till  well 
commingled.  Then  boil  fifteen  minutes,  take  out  the 
bunch  of  parsley,  then  add  your  cream  and  thickening 
and  boil  five  minutes,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 

Dumpling  Soup. 
Take  four  pounds  of  good  lean  meat,  either  veal  or 
mutton,  and  oxAy  just  boil  in  five  quarts  of  cold  water 
for  three  hours.  Peel,  slice  and  brown  in  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  boil  the  last  hour  in  the  soup,  six 
small  onions,  ^^'ash  and  cut  in  half-inch  pieces  three 
small  heads  of  celery  and  put  in  at  same  time.  When  it 
is  done,  beat  well  one  ^g^,  take  one  tablespoon  of  milk, 
and  thicken  with  flour  till  stiff,  then  cut  off  bullet-like 
pieces  and  drop  m  the  soup;  let  soak  fifteen  minutes, 
then  boil  five  minutes;  if  not  the  right  thickness  add 
flour  to  make  it  creamy  thickness.  A  little  salt  in  the 
dumplings.      Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mutton  Soup. 
Six  pounds  of  neck,  four  quarts  of  cold  water,  one- 
half  cup  of  rice,   parsley;    salt  and    pepper  to  taste. 
Prepare  the  same  as  other  soups.     Thicken. 


44  ^^''^'  Oiiccii  Cook  Book 

Clam  Soup. 

30  clams  4  tablespoons  butter 

3  quarts  water  3  fresh  cpgs 

4  tablespoons  flour  i  pint  milk  or  cream 

Pepper  and  salt 
Add  the  native  liquor  to  the  water;  bring  to  a  boil 
arid -skim  it.  Chop  up  the  clams  very  fine  and  stir  in 
with  butter  and  flour  worked  together,  and  boil  just 
three  minutes;  if  much  boiled  they  will  be  tough;  add 
three  fresh  eggs  well  beaten;  stir  well.  Pour  on  crou- 
tons if  you  like.      Very  delicious. 

Jenny  Lind  Sour. 

1  Yi  pounds  lean  veal  i  quart  chicken  broth 
3  pints  water                           2  cups  cream 

]/i  cup  rice  4  yolks  of  eggs 

Pepper  and  salt 
Chop  the  lean  veal  fine  and  put  into  the  water  cold 
with  salt,  and  simmer  for  two  hours,  or  to  cook  the 
veal  tender;  do  not  boil.  Boil  the  rice  tender  in  a  pint 
of  water.  Strain  the  veal  broth  through  a  soup 
strainer;  add  your  chicken  broth,  rice,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  one  cup  of  cream;  beat  the  yolks  well;  add  the 
other  cup  of  cream  to  them.      Pour  on  to  rolled  cracker. 

Ox  Tail  Soup. 

2  ox  tails  I  onion,   i   turnip 

2  quarts  cold  water  or  stock   i  bay  leaf,  i  carrot 
2  tablespoons  butter  4  cloves,  salt,  pepper 

Wash  and  wipe  the  ox  tails.  Cut  them  in  pieces 
about  the  fourth  of  an  inch  long.  Put  the  butter  into 
a  frying-pan;  when  hot,  throw  in  the  ox  tails  and  stir 
until  they  turn  brown,  then  skim  them  out  and  brown 
the  onion;  then  put  all  the  ingredients  in  the    soup 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  45 

kettle  and  siiniiicr  about  two  hours  or  till  the  tails  are 
tender,  removing  the  vegetables;  season  right. 


Oyster  Soup.      (Have  good  oysters.) 

50  03'sters  or  i  quart  2  heaping  tablespoons  but- 

I  cup  hot  water  ter 

4  tablespoons  sifted  rolled      ^A    pint  each  of  milk  and 

cracker  cream 

Salt  and  pepper 

Pour  the  oysters  into  a  colander,  pour  on  slowly  the 
cup  of  hot  water,  stirring  with  the  hand,  to  take  out 
the  shells,  and  wash  off  all  the  liquor.  Put  the  liquor 
in  the  soup  kettle,  heat  slowly  to  let  the  scum 
rise;  when  it  is  near  boiling  skim  it  well,  taking 
off  every  speck,  then  put  in  milk  and  cream;  bring  to 
a  boil;  put  in  butter;  put  salt  and  pepper  on  the 
oysters;  set  the  kettle  out  of  stove,  where  it  will 
not  boil,  and  pour  the  oysters  in  the  kettle  and 
stir  lightly  for  ten  minutes,  till  hot  through,  tasting 
to  see  if  seasoned  right,  as  on  this  depends  their 
beauty  with  the  cream.  If  you  can  not  get  cream,  use 
milk  and  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  which  must 
be  cooked  in  the  milk  before  adding  the  oysters.  As 
soon  as  they  begin  to  shrink  pour  it  all  slowly  in  the 
tureen,  stirring  the  cracker,  so  it  will  not  be  lump}-. 
Oysters  must  not  be  allowed  to  boil,  as  it  makes  them 
tough  and  tasteless.  Be  equally  careful  that  the 
oysters  are  heated  through,  as  an  uncooked  oj'ster  in 
a  hot  soup  is  unacceptable;  serve  immediatel}-.  De- 
licious. 

Chicken  Soup. 

For  one  chicken  cut  up,  put  two  quarts  of  cold 
water;  let  it  simmer  for  hve  hours.  When  half  done 
add  two    tablespoons    boiled    rice,   salt    and    pepper; 


46  The  Oucoi  Cook  Book 

a  spoonful  of  flour  and  l)uttcr  when  done.  If  one 
likes  onions  or  parsley  in,  put  them  in,  but  I  prefer  the 
relishable  chicken  flavor.  Remember  to  skim  it  well. 
Put  croutons  in  the  tureen. 

Perfect  Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Endeavor  to  have  the  head  and  the  stock-meat  ready 
for  the  soup,  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten.  It  will 
take  eight  hours  to  prepare  it  properly. 

Cleaning  and  soaking  the  head i  hour. 

To  parboil  it  to  cut  up i     " 

Cooling  nearly i     " 

Making  the  broth  and  finishing  the  soup 5     " 

8  " 
Get  a  fresh  calf's  head;  have  it  skinned.  Clean 
out  the  eye  and  ear  sockets,  take  out  the  brains,  cut 
off  the  entire  jaw,  wash  the  head  in  several  waters, 
let  it  soak  for  about  an  hour  in  soft  water,  then  lay  it 
in  a  stew  pan,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water  and  add  two 
quarts  over;  as  it  becomes  warm  a  great  deal  of  scum 
will  rise,  w-hich  remove  as  fast  as  it  rises,  let  it  boil 
gently  for  one  hour,  take  it  up,  and  when  almost  cold, 
cut  the  meat  into  pieces  about  an  inch  and  a  half  by 
an  inch  and  a  quarter,  and  the  tongue  into  mouthfuls, 
or  rather  make  a  side  dish  of  the  tongue  and  brains. 
When  the  head  is  taken  out,  put  in  the  stock  meat 
about  five  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal,  and  the  same  of 
beef;  add  to  the  stock  all  the  trimmings  and  bones  of 
the  head,  skim  it  well,  then  cover  it  close  and  let  it 
simmer  five  hours  (reserve  a  couple  of  quarts  of  this  for 
gravy  stock  of  other  meats)  ;  then  strain  it  off  and  let 
it  stand  till  next  morning;  take  off  the  fat,  set  a  large 
stewpan  on  the  fire  with  half  a  pound  of  good  fresh 
butter,    two  ounces  of  sliced  onions,   and  one-fourth 


The  Oiucii  Cook  Book  47 

ounce  of  green  sage;  chop  fine;  let  these  simmer  one 
hour,  then  rub  in  half  a  pound  of  browned  flour,  by 
degrees  add  the  broth  till  it  is  the  thickness  of  cream: 
season  it  with  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  finely  ground 
allspice,  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper  very  fine.  (Salt 
it  when  you  first  put  it  over.)  The  rind  of  one  lemon 
pealed  very  thin;  let  it  simmer  gently  for  one  hour  and 
a  half,  then  strain  it  through  a  soup  sieve,  do  not  rub 
it  through,  but  have  it  tiiin  enough  to  shake  through; 
put  it  in  a  clean  stewpan  with  the  head  and  season  it 
l)y  adding  to  each  gallon  of  soup  four  tablespoons  of 
vinegar  and  four  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  let  it  sim- 
mer gently  till  the  meat  is  tender;  this  may  take  from 
half  an  hour  to  an  hour;  take  care  that  it  is  not  over 
done;  stir  it  frequently  to  prevent  the  meat  from  sticking 
to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  When  the  meat  is  quite 
tender  the  soup  is  ready.  A  head  weighing  twenty 
pounds  with  the  ten  pounds  of  stock  meat,  will  make 
ten  quarts  of  excellent  soup,  besides  the  two  quarts  of 
stock,  3'ou  have  put  by  for  gravies.  You  can  add  the 
yolks  of  four  hard  boiled  eggs  if  you  like.  If  there  is 
more  meat  on  the  head  than  }'ou  wish  to  put  in  the 
soup,  save  it,  it  will  make  an  excellent  ragout  or  meat 
pie.  If  there  is  a  good  deal  of  meat  left  from  the 
soup  put  with  a  cup  of  the  stock  thickened  as  for  grav}', 
and  make  a  crust  the  same  as  for  chicken  pie,  and  you 
have  a  good  mock  turtle  pie. 

Obs. — This  is  a  delicious  soup,  within  the  reach  of 
every  one.  The  lover  of  good  eating  will  only  wish 
for  mote  when  he  is  through.  Home  Messenger. 


MEATS. 
For  boiled  meats,   all  fresh  meats  should  be  put  in 
hot  water  with    salt,   and  skimmed   as   often   as  any 
scum  rises,  letting  it  just  boil  and  no  more,  covered 


48  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

ti|^ditly;  have  a  tea  kettle  of  boiling  water  to  add  to  it 
as  it  boils  down.  When  you  can  pierce  it  easily  with 
a  fork  it  is  cooked  enough.  For  soups,  put  the  meat 
in  cold  water,  as  you  need  the  juices  of  the  meat  in  the 
water.  When  you  have  skimmed  it  well,  put  in  a 
little  cold  water  which  will  throw  up  the  rest  of  the 
scum  Never  boil  meats  or  sow^s  fiirio2isiy,  ov  fry  or 
roast  in  that  way;  it  destroys  both  the  flavor  and  all 
that  is  nutritious  in  anything.  In  roasting  have  your 
oven  quite  hot  when  you  put  it  in,  afterward  roast 
more  gently;  in  that  way  the  outside  pores  are  closed, 
and  the  juices  of  the  meat  will  not  be  lost. 

A  good  roast  is  juicy  in  the  middle  and  brown  on  the 
outside.  Most  people  like  beef  and  mutton  under- 
done, while  veal,  lamb  and  pork  should  be  well  done. 
All  meats  are  more  tender  and  have  a  better  flavor  to 
be  a  few  days  old  after  killing,  according  to  the 
weather,  and  the  means  of  keeping  it  A  chicken 
is  never  quite  as  good  the  day  it  is  killed  It  is  more 
tender  to  be  from  twenty-four  to  forty-eight  hours 
killed,  according  to  weather. 

For  boiled  meats  do  -not  let  the  water  boil  for  the 
first  forty  minutes.  If  the  water  boils  much  sooner, 
the  meat  will  be  hardened,  and  shrink,  the  slower  it 
boils  the  more  tender  it  will  be.  Count  the  time  from 
its  first  coming  to  a  boil,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  a 
pound,  if  gently  simmered.  Fresh  killed  meats  will 
take  somewhat  longer  time,  than  that  which  has  been 
kept  till  what  the  butchers  call  ripe;  if  it  be  fresh 
killed  it  will  be  tough  and  hard  if  stewed  ever  so 
long  or  gently  Have  the  meat  just  covered  with 
water.  Beef  and  mutton  a  little  underdone  is  not  a 
great  fault,  but  lamb,  pork,  veal,  and  chicken  are 
uneatable  and  truly  unwholesome  if  not  thoroughly 
boiled.  The  liquor  of  boiled  meats  will  make  nutri- 
tious soups. 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book  49 


To  Bake  Meats    Etc. 

This  is  one  of  the  cheapest  and  most  convenient 
wax's  of  dressintj;'  a  dinner  in  small  families.  With 
regard  to  the  time  necessary  for  baking  or  roasting 
various  meats,  it  will  vary  according  to  the  different 
kinds  of  meat  and  its  age.  Everything  should  be 
salted  when  first  put  over  to  cook,  except  broiled  beef 
steak.  In  selecting  beef  it  should  be  of  a  clear,  red 
color,  of  a  iine  grain,  the  fat  firm  and  of  a  yellowish 
white.  The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  ribs,  sir- 
loin and  pin  bone.  Always  examine  a  piece  of  meat  to 
be  sure  there  is  nothing  foreign  on  it,  such  as  specks 
of  dirt,  hairs,  etc.  Do  not  wash  it  if  you  can  help  it, 
but  wipe  it  with  a  damp  cloth. 

To  Roast  Beef. 

Rub  the  salt  well  in  the  roast;  pepper,  and  sprinkle 
well  with  flour  with  your  seive.  Put  it  on  the  rack  in 
the  bottom  of  a  sheet  iron  baking  pan,  the  skin  side 
up,  do  not  turn  it  over,  but  turn  your  pan  around. 
When  it  begins  to  brown,  put  a  cup  of  water  in  the 
pan.  Baste  your  meat  with  the  drippings  (that  is, 
take  a  spoon  and  dip  the  gravy  on  the  meat)  every 
fifteen  minutes.  Have  the  oven  quite  hot  at  first  and 
then  more  moderate,  but  have  it  boiling  hot,  adding 
water  if  it  boils  dry;  do  not  let  it  burn.  It  must 
always  be  rare  inside  and  a  bright  red  (not  whitish) 
when  sufficiently  cooked  and  well  browned  and  crisped 
on  the  outside.  A  roast  of  two  ribs  will  cook  in  one 
hour,  if  oven  is  right  heat.  A  rack  is  made  of  sheet 
iron  to  fit  loosely  in  the  pan,  the  two  sides  bent  down 
three-fourths  of  an  inch,  to  stand  on,  to  hold  the  meat 
up  from  the  juices,  and  full  of  holes  the  size  of  a 
penny.     Put  only  a  little  water  in  at  a  time,  so  as  not 


50  Tlic  Queen  Ccok  Jniok 

to  steam  the  roast,  which  will  make  the  meat  whitish. 
Take  it  up  when  cooked  to  your  likinj;,  the  gravy 
being  browned,  pour  off  the  excess  of  fat,  if  there  is 
too  much  fat,  and  add  water  according  to  the  quan- 
tity of  meat;  salt  and  thicken  with  liour  as  thick  as 
thick  cream.  One  great  beauty  of  all  meats  is  to  have 
the  right  proportion  of  salt,  and  not  have  it  taste  of 
salt.-  To  be  a  good  cook  you  must  taste  and  see. 
Beef  roasted  in  front  of  an  old-fashioned  fire-place 
has  a  liner  flavor  than  in  a  oven. 

Yorkshire  Pudding. 
I  quart  sweet  milk  Salt,  even  teaspoon 

8  even  tablespoons   Hour,      6  eggs 

sifted  twice 

This  pudding  is  to  be  cooked  and  eaten  with  this 
previous  roast.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light  separatel)^ 
stir  the  yolks  and  salt  in  the  milk,  then  stir  the  milk 
gradually  in  the  flour  beating  it  eight  minutes.  Then 
add  the  beaten  whites.  Thirty  minutes  before  the 
roast  is  done  take  it  out  of  pan,  and  the  rack  out,  pour 
the  gravy  out,  and  pour  the  pudding  in  the  meat  pan, 
lay  wires  three  or  four  across  the  top  of  pan  on  which 
place  the  meat.  Do  this  as  quickly  as  possible  and 
place  in  quite  hot  oven  again  for  twenty-five  or  thirty 
minutes.  In  the  meantime  prepare  your  meat-gravy 
for  table,  as  everything  else  must  be  ready  for  table 
when  the  pudding  is  baked.  Take  up  the  meat  and 
slide  the  pudding  out  on  a  platter,  cut  it  in  squares 
when  helping.  Keep  it  hot  till  after  carving  is  done. 
This  is  enough  for  eight  or  ten  persons.  If  there  are 
only  four  or  five  persons,  make  half  of  it. 

Fillet  of  Beef. 
The  fillet  is  the  tenderloin  of  beef.     They  are  of  vari- 
ous sizes,    and    weigh    from    three    to   eight    pounds. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  5 1 

Make  gashes  in  it  and  insert  several  finger  strips  of 
nice  fat  salt  pork;  cut  off  the  rind.  Take  off  the  thick 
sinewy  skin  from  the  tenderloin.  Salt,  pepper  and 
Hour  it,  put  a  little  suet  and  a  few  strips  of  pork  in 
bottom  of  pan  and  a  small  cup  of  stock,  or  hot  water 
to  baste  it  with.  It  will  bake  in  three-fourths  of  an 
hour;  serve  with  any  sauce  or  catsup  you  have,  with 
Saratoga  or  Julien  potatoes. 

Beef  ala  Mode. 

Take  a  slice  about  four  inches  thick  from  the  round 
of  beef,  it  may  weigh  seven  or  eight  pounds,  remove 
the  bone,  have  ready  finger  strip,  of  nice  fat  salt  pork, 
and  some  nice  turkey  dressing  (stuffing  of  bread)  cut 
deep  gashes  into  the  meat,  but  be  careful  not  to  cut 
through,  rub  on  the  salt.  Mix  a  half  teaspoon  of 
black  pepper,  same  of  cinnamon,  quarter  of  a  teaspoon 
of  mace,  the  same  of  cloves,  and  rub  th^m  into  the 
meat  on  both  sides,  sprinkling  a  little  in  each  gash. 
Put  one  piece  of  pork  and  as  much  of  the  dressing,  as 
it  will  hold  when  rolled  up.  (Add  onion  and  parsley  to 
the  dressing  if  you  like  and  vinegar.)  Mix  three  table- 
spoons of  vinegar  with  three  of  butter  and  moisten 
well  both  sides  of  the  meat,  then  roll  it  together  and 
fasten  around  it  a  piece  of  sheer  muslin,  sewing  up 
the  ends.  Let  stand  over  night.  Then  put  two  large 
tablespoons  of  butter  into  a  pan,  and  when  melted  and 
hot,  add  one  onion,  one  carrot  and  one  turnip  cut  into 
slices;  stir  the  whole  until  lightly  browned,  then  add 
two  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  two  bay  leaves,  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  and  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  or  stock;  let 
the  whole  boil  two  minutes;  then  put  in  the  beef  and 
one  knuckle  of  veal  well  cracked.  Put  on  the  cover 
to  keep  in  the  steam,  and  put  in  the  oven  and  bake 
slowly  for  six  hours,  oven  quite  hot.     When  done  take 


52  The  Oitccn  Cook  Book 

out  the  meat  and  stand  away  to  cool.  Strain  the 
Hquor,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  turn  into  a 
square  dish  to  harden.  This  will  make  a  jell}'  of  a 
bright  amber  color.  Serve  the  meat  cold  with  squares 
of  the  jelly  around  it.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Serve 
with  any  meat  sauce  or  mayonnaise  sauce.  In  winter 
this  will  keep  at  least  two  weeks  in  a  cold  place,  cov- 
ered. 

Broiled  Beef  Steak 

The  cuts  for  broiling  are  porterhouse,  sirloin,  ten- 
derloin, and  rump  or  round.  First,  plan  to  have  good 
hot  coals;  heat  the  gridiron  made  of  wire;  rub  it  with 
suet.  Have  your  steak  thick,  from  three-fourths  to  an 
inch  thick;  you  can  not  make  a  juicy  steak  out  of  a 
thin  one.  Pound  it  Vv'ith  a  large  hammer  to  make  it 
tender,  put  no  salt  on  it;  lay  it  on  the  gridiron  and 
cover  with  a  tight  fitting  sheet  iron  cover  (that  is, 
fits  the  opening  of  the  hearth),  warm  the  platter, 
take  it  up  every  three  minutes  (being  careful  not  to 
lose  its  juices  on  the  coals,  but  in  the  platter  (by  run- 
ning two  knives  under);  double  it  on  the  warm  platter, 
press  a  few  times  vs'ith  your  knife,  turn  it  every  time 
you  take  it  up,  and  so  on  for  three  or  four  times;  it 
will  cook  in  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  It  must  be  rare 
inside.  Lay  it  on  platter,  salt,  butter  and  pepper 
both  sides,  just  enough  to  give  it  a  flavor.  Set  it  in 
the  oven  for  half  a  minute,  and  serve.  Some  prefer  not 
to  pound  it,  but  there  are  but  few  steaks  that  are  ten- 
der without  it.  It  must  be  eaten  immediately  to  be 
at  its  best.  The  family  had  better  wait  a  few  minutes 
for  the  steak,  than  to  have  the  steak  wait  for  them. 
If  you  burn  coal  use  a  folding  gridiron. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  53 

To  Fry  a  Round  or  Tough  Steak. 

Heat  the  spider  hot,  pound  the  steak  well,  salt  both 
sides,  lay  it  in  spider,  cover  tight,  turn  every  half  min- 
ute (watch  it  closely  that  it  does  not  burn),  but  cook 
fast;  it  will  cook  rare  in  five  or  seven  minutes;  butter 
it  both  sides  and  pepper;  take  it  up,  put  in  water 
enough  to  make  a  gravy  and  pour  o^'er  it.  Always  see 
that  your  gravies  are  nicely  seasoned. 

Beef  Croquettes. 

Take  one  pound  of  cold  beef  left  from  roast  or 
steak,  cut  off  all  gristle  or  skin,  hash  it  fine  enough  to 
adhere.  Add  the  same  quantity  of  fine  rolled  cracker, 
or  grated  bread  crumbs;  gra\y  or  milk  to  moisten, 
two  eggs,  season  to  taste  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper; 
lemon  and  onion  if  you  like.  Let  stand  till  it  swells, 
then  make  up  in  oblong  fiat  rolls;  brown  in  spider  with 
half  butter  and  half  suet,  as  you  would  brown  potato 
balls.  Do  not  dry  them  up,  as  then  they  are  cooked 
too  much. 

A  Flank  of  Beef. 

The  flank  of  beef  is  a  part  generally  unknown  to 
housekeepers,  but  if  properly  cooked  and  seasoned  it 
makes  an  exceedingly  good  dish.  The  flank  is  the  part 
between  the  ribs  and  the  hip.  Have  about  four 
pounds  of  the  flank  cut  in  a  strip  twice  as  long  as  it  is 
wide,  wipe  with  a  wet  cloth,  trim  off  the  gristle,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  it  with  a  layer  of  tur- 
key dressing  as  thick  as  it  will  roll,  roll  it  compactly 
and  tie  it  tightly  in  shape  with  cord;  brown  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  sufficient  hot  drippings  of  suet  and  but- 
ter to  keep  it  from  sticking.  When  it  is  brown  all 
over  cover  it  with  boiling  water.      Add  salt  and  pepper 


54  Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book 

a  little  as  the  water  will  boil  down;  keep  covered  all 
the  time  from  first  to  last,  boiling  slowly  for  about 
three  hours  till  tender,  or  just  gravy  enough  for*  the 
meat;  thicken  and  serve.  Boiled  rice  is  nice  served 
with  it,  or  boiled  onions.  Serve  with  tomato  pickle  or 
chow  chow. 

Stuffed  Roast  Beef-. 

For  a  change  have  a  piece  of  the  ribs  boned  by  the 
butcher.  Prepare  a  nice  turkey  dressing.  Unroll  the 
beef;  spread  the  dressing  as  thick  as  it  will  admit;  roll 
it  up,  tie  it  firmly  and  roast  as  other  roast  beef.  A 
joint  of  beef  boned  can  be  prepared  the  same  way. 
This  requires  more  gravy  than  a  usual  roast.  Slice  it 
around,  not  lengthwise.      This  can  be  boiled  if  you  like. 

Scalloped  Meat. 

Lamb,  mutton  or  chicken  make  nice  dishes  scal- 
loped. Chop  nicely,  taking  out  all  refuse  bits;  season 
to  taste.  Have  half  as  much  rolled  cracker  or  grated 
bread  crumbs  as  meat.  Put  in  your  baking  dish 
(already  buttered)  a  layer  of  meat,  then  a  layer  of 
crumbs,  little  bits  of  butter,  a  few  spoonsful  of  gravy 
to  moisten  the  crumbs.  Alternate  the  layers  till  dish 
is  full,  putting  a  thick  la3'er  on  top.  Sprinkle  the  top 
well  with  milk.  Bake  one-half  hour,  browning  the 
top. 

Beef  Loaf. 

Three  pounds  of  raw  chopped  beef,  two  cupfuls  of 
rolled  cracker  or  grated  bread  (which  is  prepared  by 
slicing  and  dr}ing  in  the  oven  till  it  \\\\\  grate  nicely), 
sufficient  sweet  milk  to  moisten  and  cling  together, 
four  well  beaten  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let 
stand  an   hour  or  more   to  swell,  then  press  in  your 


TJic  Oiiccii  Cook  Book  5*5 

pan  and  bake  an  hour.     Eat  cold,  sliced  thin,  veal  or 
lamb  is  prepared  in  the  same  way  and  is  better. 

Boiled  Meat  with  Robert  Sauce. 

Take  any  meat  which  has  been  previously  used 
for  soup,  cut  into  fillets  or  bits,  and  warm  up  well  in 
the  following:  Robert  sauce,  slice  a  large  onion  and 
brown  in  a  large  tablcspoonful  of  butter,  add  soup 
stock  and  season  as  you  need  for  the  meat,  and  sim- 
mer for  five  minutes.  The  soup  meat  for  this  should 
not  have  all  its  goodness  boiled  out  of  it. 

Spiced  Beef, 

Take  ten  pounds  of  beef  from  the  fore  quarter. 
Take  one  pint  of  salt,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon ground  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper,  and 
two  tablespoons  of  powdered  saltpeter;  rub  thoroughly 
with  the  mixture.  Turn  and  rub  each  side  twice  a 
day  for  one  week.  Then  wash  off  the  spices,  put  it 
in  boiling  water,  and  only  just  boil  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  for  five  hours.  Add  more  water  as  it  needs. 
Press  under  a  heavy  weight  (in  the  liquor)  till  cold, 
and  you  will  never  desire  to  try  corned  beef  of  the 
butcher  again.  Your  pickle  will  do  for  another  ten 
pounds  of  beef;  first  rubbing  into  it  a  handful  of  salt. 
It  can  be  renewed  and  a  piece  kept  in  preparation 
every  week.     This  is  good  to  pickle  tongues  also. 

Meat  Pie. 

Cold  scraps  of  mutton,  lamb  or  veal,  cut  in  small 
bits,  cooked  in  a  gravy  seasoned  ready  for  eating,  line 
the  sides  and  bottom  of  pan  with  pie  crust  or  biscuit 
dough,  then  put  in  the  meat,  cover  the  top  with 
dough  one-third  of  an  inch  thick,   having  the  under 


56  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

crust   twice   as  thick   as  for  a   pie.      As  soon   as  the 
crust  is  cooked  through  it  is  ready  to  eat. 

Corned  Beef  Hash. 

Boil  the  beef  just  tender,  let  get  cold,  save  fat  that 
rises  on  the  liquor  when  cold.  You  can  not  make 
good  hash  out  of  tough,  or  poor  corned  beef,  nor  over- 
boiled potatoes.  To  each  cup  of  hashed  corned  beef, 
add  what  would  make  two  cups  of  hashed  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  and  chop  in  the  meat,  put  in  the  spider 
with  a  little  of  the  fat,  and  water  enough  to  moisten, 
adding  as  it  boils  out;  season  as  needed.  Let  it 
slowly  boil  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  not  stirring  but 
scraping  it  up  often  till  it  is  somewhat  glutinous,  then 
let  brown  on  the  bottom.  Dish  it  and  sprinkle  pepper 
on  top.  Corn  beef  hash  rightly  made  is  a  nice  winter 
breakfast  dish  with  the  relish  of  gooseberry  catsup, 
and  nicely  cooked  buck^^■heat  cakes. 

Fresh  Meat  Hashes. 

The  poor  ends  of  steaks  fried,  or  any  bits  of  meat 
can  be  hashed  and  cooked  a  little  in  a  grav}^  and  put 
on  bread  or  buttered  toast,  is  another  breakfast  dish. 
Mutton,  lamb  or  veal  can  be  used  in  the  same  way. 
Fresh  meats  are  not  as  good  eating  to  have  potatoes 
hashed  with  them. 

Dried  Beef  Cooked — Tea  Dish. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  thin  sliced  dried  beef  (the 
grocer  will  slice  it  for  }'Ou)  pull  it  into  smaller  pieces, 
put  it  in  stew  pan  .vith  nearly  a  quart  of  milk  and  one- 
half  cup  of  cream,  or  one  spoon  of  butter,  when  boil- 
ing hot  thicken  wi  ;h  flour,  and  only  let  it  boil  enough  to 
cook  the  flour;  if  i;  boils  longer  it  will  be  tough.  Lay 
as  many  half  slices  or  slices  of   bread  on  your  platter 


TJic  Qiiccn  Cook  Book  57 

as  you  desire  and  pour  the  beef  on  the  bread;  sprinkle 
top  with  pepper. 

Beef  Tea  for  Invalids. 

To  one  pound  of  lean  beef  (the  sirloin  is  best)  cut 
in  little  finger  strips,  put  one  coffee  cup  of  cold  water, 
a  very  little  salt;  set  your  dish  in  hot  water;  as  soon 
as  it  is  warm  (wash  your  hands)  and  squeeze  the  meat 
with  the  right  hand  till  the  meat  is  perfectly  white 
through,  then  take  it  out,  and  strain  it  through  a 
coarse  sieve.  It  is  ready  for  use  when  you  heat  it 
quite  hot,  by  setting  the  cup  in  hot  water  for  a  few 
minutes,  a  little  more  than  blood  heat,  for  any  higher 
temperature  would  destroy  all  the  nourishment;  so  do 
not  let  the  blood  congeal. 

Another  Beef  Tea. 

Though  I  have  not  found  it  so  good.  Take  sirloin  of 
beef,  cut  it  in  two  inch  pieces,  a  little  salt ;  put  it  on  grid- 
iron over  hot  coals,  just  to  let  the  heat  strike  through 
it  but  not  cook  it.  Then  squeeze  out  the  juice  till 
white  with  a  lemon  squeezer. 

Scraped  Beef  Sandwiches. 

Take  a  thick  piece  of  beef  scrape  with  a  sharp  knife 
the  required  quantity,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
stir  with  a  fork,  slice  the  bread  thin  and  spread  the 
beef  thin  between,  cut  into  dainty  bits  of  different 
shapes  and  serve  on  a  tin\'  napkm.  Some  invalids 
prefer  the  taste  of  toasted  bread.  In  that  case  slice 
the  bread  a  trifle  thicker,  and  when  the  sandwiches 
are  made,  toast  the  outsides  quickly  and  lightl}'. 


58  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


Beef  Balls. 

The  beef  is  prepared  and  seasoned  as  for  sand- 
wiches, rolled  between  the  hands  into  balls  the  size  of 
marbles;  heat  a  tin  plate  hissing  hot,  rub  it  with  salt, 
then  shake  off  the  salt,  place  on  the  balls  and  toss 
until  li.ghtly  seared. 

Raw  Beef  Cakes. 

Make  the  scraped  seasoned  beef  into  little  cakes 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  grease  the  broiler  slightly, 
and  broil  the  cakes  until  they  begin  to  change  color. 

Cold  Pressed  Beef. 

Take  four  or  more  pounds  of  a  brisket  of  beef  (a 
brisket  of  beef  is  that  part  of  the  breast  that  lies  ne.xt 
to  the  ribs)  fresh  or  salt,  if  fresh  rub  with  salt  and 
flour,  after  removing  the  bones  (the  butcher  will  do 
this)  tie  it  tightly  in  a  cloth,  then  put  it  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  hot  water,  a  little  salt  in  the  water  as  needed. 
Simmer  gently  for  four  or  live  hours;  when  done  place 
it  between  two  plates,  put  a  heavy  weight  upon  it 
over  night,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  thin  slicing. 
Always  remember  the  skimming  of  boiled  meat.  If 
this  is  fresh  meat,  the  broth  is  good  for  soup. 

A  Nice  Brine  to  Pickle  Beef. 

For  I  GO  pounds  beef  6  quarts  common  salt 

4  pounds  brown  sugar  4  ounces  saltpetre 

Powder  the  saltpetre  in  a  mortar  at  the  druggists, 
then  mix  all  well  together,  then  rub  the  mixture  all 
over  each  piece  of  beef;  let  it  lie  overnight,  then  pack 
close  in  jars  or  a  good  beef  barrel,  a  layer  of  mixture 
and   a  layer  of   beef  alternately.     Put  a  board  and 


TJw  Ouccu  Cook  Book  '  59 

and  a  heavy  weight  on  top;  cover  closely.  Shake  the 
barrel  every  day  lor  a  week,  then  once  a  week.  If  it 
does  not  make  brine  enough  of  its  own  juices  in  a  few 
days  to  cover  the  meat,  pour  on  water  that  has 
been  boiled  (when  cold)  to  cover  the  meat,  then  pour 
the  brine  all  off,  stir  well  and  pour  it  back.  If 
any  scum  rises  skim  it  all  off  before  shaking. 
The  pieces  for  drying  will  be  salt  enough  in  three  and 
a  half  weeks,  and  for  eating.  When  purchasing  a 
quarter  of  beef  for  corning  for  winter  use,  be  careful 
to  select  a  tender  beef  of  the  right  age,  about  7  or 
more  years  old.  A  young  beef  is  always  tough. 
November  is  the  best  month  to  salt  beef.  Follow 
directions  for  selections  of  beef  for  table,  under  the 
the  head  of  baked  meats.  Beef  should  be  killed  three 
or  four  days  before  salting,  according  to  weather. 

Mutton  and  Lamb. 
To  roast  a  leg  of  either  lamb  or  mutton,  it  is 
prepared  the  same  as  beef,  only  it  is  improved  by 
making  incisions  and  placing  withm  finger  strips 
of  salt  pork;  baste  every  fifteen  minutes.  Roast 
twelve  minutes  for  every  pound  of  lamb,  and  fifteen 
for  every  pound  of  mutton.  The  outside  must  be 
brown  and  crisp.  Make  a  gravy;  serve  with  green 
peas,  pickles  and  currant  jelly. 

A  Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton. 
Put  it  in  boiling  water  just  enough  to  cover  it,  boil 
slowly  fifteen  minutes  for  every  pound.     When  done, 
have  just  water  enough  to  make  the  drawn  butter  of. 
Serve  with  spiced  pickles  and  jam. 

Fore  Quarter  of  Lamb,   Roasted. 
Have  the  butcher  take  out  the  leg  bone  and  shoul- 
der blade  (which  you  can  take  home  toward  a  soup) 


6o  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

stuff  the  cavity  with  turkey  dressing,  tie  it  up,  season- 
ing right.  Bake  twehe  minutes  to  the  pound.  Place 
it  on  the  frame  and  have  only  a  Httle  water  in  pan, 
so  as  to  let  the  gravy  brown  when  it  is  baked,  then 
add  water  and  make  the  gravy. 

Fore  Quarter  Lamb,   Broiled. 

This  is  the  most  delicious  method  of  cooking  lamb. 
Choose  a  young  and  tender,  but  small  fore  quarter; 
have  it  well  nicked  by  the  butcher;  and  forty  minutes 
before  dinner  place  it  on  the  gridiron  over  bright 
coals,  but  not  too  hot;  every  ten  minutes  baste  it  on 
both  sides  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  turn  on  the  gridiron; 
send  it  to  table  just  off  the  fire  and  well  buttered;  it 
will  make  its  own  gravy;  it  should  be  done  thoroughly, 
that  is,  past  the  pink  color  demanded  bj'  French 
cooks,  but  not  enough  to  dry  the  natural  juices  of  the 
meat.  Home  Afrssenger. 

Lamb  Chops. 

Lamb  chops  can  be  fried  or  broiled,  not  cooked 
hard,  but  browned,  salted,  peppered  and  buttered. 
Can  make  a  gra\-y  for  the  fried  chops. 

Roast  Leg  of  Veal. 

Prepared  the  same  as  lamb,  only  it  requires  longer 
and  more  thorough  cooking  and  is  always  better  to 
lay  bits  of  salt  pork  in  bottom  of  pan,  or  gash  it  in. 
Make  a  gravy  of  the  brown  drippings. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

For  veal  cutlets  it  should  be  cut  one-half  inch 
thick  from  the  leg.  cut  in  right  sizes  for  helping,  have 
a  spoonful  of  lard  and  butter  each  in  a  hot  spider;  lay 
in  the  veal  and  cook  well,  brown  on  both  sides,  salt 


The   Oiiccu  Cook  Book  6 1 

and  pepper  the  veal  first,  then  dip  in  beaten  g.^^  and 
rolled  cracker;  lay  it  in  spider  and  l)ro\vn  again.  Make 
a  gravy. 

Pickled  Tongue  Boiled. 
Wash  it  and  put  it  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water, 
boil  gently  three  or  four  hours,  till  when  you 
pierce  it  with  a  fork  it  is  tender;  then  take  out  and 
skin  it,  trimming  off  the  roots.  Uo  not  let  the  water 
boil  out.  When  cold  slice  it  thin,  place  it  on  platter, 
the  pieces  overlapping  each  other  all  around  the  platter; 
put  in  the  center  nasturtium  flowers  or  seeds,  and 
parsley  around  the  edge.  A  nice  supper  dish.  It  is 
also  nice  \»'armed  up  in  milk  gravy. 

Jellied  Tongue. 
Boil  until  tender  a  pickled  beef  tongue.  When 
cooked  throw  into  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
peel.  Save  a  pint  of  the  liquor  which  the  tongue  was 
boiled  in.  When  the  tongue  is  perfectly  cold  slice 
thin  as  for  the  table  and  half  hash  it.  Dissolve  two 
ounces  of  gelatine  in  one  pint  cold  water.  Plan  to 
cook  a  piece  of  veal  the  same  day  or  day  before,  so  as 
to  have  the  gravy.  Take  one  teacup  of  the  gravy,  two 
tablespoons  of  light  brown  sugar,  add  to  the  gra\'y 
three  tablespoons  of  vinegar  or  juice  of  one  lemon, 
one  pint  of  liquor  the  tongue  was  cooked  in,  the  dis- 
solved gelatine  and  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  set  in  cold  water  till  it  begins 
to  thicken.  Take  a  jelly  mold  and  put  in  a  layer  of 
jelly,  then  a  layer  of  tongue  and  then  of  jelly,  and  so 
on  till  all  is  in.  Set  it  on  ice  over  night  to  get  solid. 
When  you  are  ready  to  use  it,  dip  the  mould  in  hot 
water  quickly  and  turn  out  on  platter.  Garnish  with 
parsley  or  any  soft  fine  green.  This  makes  a  hand- 
some dish  for  lunch  or  tea.     Cut  it  with  a  sharp  knife. 


62  TJic  Oitccii  Cook  Book 

Jellied  Chicken. 

Take  one  or  two  chickens  according  to  number  of 
persons;  cut  up  as  for  fricassee  chicken;  cook  slowly 
with  just  water  enough  to  co\cr,  till  \ery  tender;  sea- 
son as  for  eating;  take  up  the  chicken;  boil  the  liquor 
till  it  will  jelly  thick  when  cold.  Pick  the  meat  to 
pieces;  cut  in  small  pieces;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a  little  butter  while  hot,  and  then  put  a  layer  of 
each  in  the  mold  alternately  when  just  cool;  then  set 
it  in  the  cold  to  harden.  To  use  on  table  cut  in  slices 
with  sharp  knife. 

Glazed  Pigeons. 

Pluck,  singe,  draw,  and  wash  lightly  (do  not  lay 
them  in  water,  but  rinse  off)  rub  in  the  salt,  and  brown 
both  sides  in  a  hot  spider,  with  half  butter  and  half 
suet  for  a  few  minutes,  then  put  them  in  your  kettle 
with  the  browned  butter,  add  enough  hot  water  to 
cover  them,  season  just  right  and  cook  gently  until 
tender,  one  or  more  hours,  according  to  age,  tightly 
covered;  when  cooked  remo\e  the  cover  and  let  boil 
rapidly  (taking  the  birds  out,  being  careful  not  to 
break  them)  till  the  broth  is  rich  enough  to  jell  when 
cold.  Add  a  little  cream  and  thicken.  Serve  the 
pigeons  on  a  platter,  pour  the  sauce  over  them.  Serve 
with  the  ordinary  sour  orange  now  so  abundant  and 
cheap,  cut  in  pieces  (not  slices)  around  the  core,  after 
peeling,  and  take  out  the  seeds,  sprinkle  well  with 
sugar  or  any  salad  dressing  you  like.  They  are  nice 
to  serve  with  any  game  or  poultry. 

Baked  Pigeons. 

Clean  the  birds  as  directed  before,  season,  stuff 
with  a  nice  turkey  dressing  adding  a  little  fine  chopped 


Tltc  Queen  Cook  Book  6'>i 

salt  pork,  place  them  compactly  in  your  baking  pan, 
with  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  on  top,  three,  say,  to 
season,  dredge  with  tiour  and  nearly  cover  with  hot 
water,  cover  tight  and  place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
till  tender.  If  the  birds  are  old  and  tough,  this  is  the 
best  way  to  cook  them,  but  it  will  take  two  or  three 
hours.  Add  cream  to  gravy  and  thicken.  Add  water 
while  baking  as  needed. 

To  Dkess  Turkey  and  Chicken. 

Take  your  fowls  from  the  roost  at  night,  without 
frightening  or  injuring  them.  Take  them  by  the  feet, 
place  the  neck  on  a  stick  of  wood  and  with  an  ax  cut 
off  the  head  with  one  blow.  Hang  it  up  by  the  feet 
till  it  stops  bleeding.  It  is  best  killed  three  or  four 
days  before  using,  in  winter,  and  twenty-four  hours  or 
more  in  summer,  according  to  your  convenience  for 
keeping  it.      If  one  has  ice,  it  is  a  great  help. 

Thorough  bleeding  renders  the  meat  of  fowls  whiter. 
I  have  often  wondered  why  some  chickens  purchased 
at  market  were  so  dark.  They  probably  killed  them 
without  bleeding.  Scald  them  well  by  dipping  them 
twice  in  a  pail  of  boiling  hot  water  and  giving  them  a 
shake  in  it  quickly.  Be  careful  not  to  scald  too  much 
so  as  to  set  the  feathers,  as  then  it  will  tear  the  skin. 
Place  the  fowl  on  a  board  taking  hold  of  its  head,  pull- 
ing the  feathers  in  the  direction  they  naturally  lie. 
Remove  all  the  pin  feathers  with  a  knife  run  under  and 
your  thumb  on  top.  Singe  the  hairs  but  do  not  smoke 
over  a  blazing  paper.  Cut  off  the  legs  a  little  below 
the  knee;  remove  the  oil  bag  above  the  tail  which  is 
small  and  yellow;  take  out  the  crop  by  making  a  little 
slit  in  front,  being  careful  to  remove  the  gullet  and 
wind  pipe.     Cut  out  the  vent  and  cut  a  place  or  slit 


64  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

long  enough  to  put  in  }uur  two  lingers  of  the  right  hand, 
and  detach  all  the  intestines  and  lights,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  gall  sack  which  is  attached  to  the 
liver,  situated  near  the  upper  part  of  the  breast  bone. 
If  this  breaks  you  must  not  cook  anything  it  touches, 
and  you  must  throw  the  liver  away. 

Now  wash  the  inside  well  and  quickly;  rub  inside 
and  out  with  salt  and  it  is  ready  for  the  dressing. 

Turkey  Dressing. 

Take  as  many  slices  of  stale  bread  as  you  need  to  fill 
your  turkey  (according  to  size).  For  a  turkey  of  eight 
pounds  perhaps  six  large  slices,  cut  thicker  than  for 
table,  of  eight  of  baker's  loaves,  cut  off  all  crusts  and 
spread  with  good  butter  as  you  would  for  eating;  cut  it 
into  strips  and  chop  it  fine  with  a  chopping  knife. 
Season  with  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Dry  the 
sage  in  the  tin  on  the  stove  slowly,  rub  it  very  line  and  sift 
it  on  the  bread,  enough  to  give  it  a  good  flavor;  beat 
two  eggs  and  stir  in  with  just  hot  water  or  milk  enough 
to  moisten  so  it  v/ill  cling  together  somewhat.  If  in 
the  season  of  oysters,  it  improves  it  very  much  to  add 
a  large  pint  lightly  chopped,  taking  out  the  hard  lobes. 
Stir  well  together  and  make  good  use  of  }our  tasting 
powers.  Stuff  the  body  lightly  full,  do  not  pack  it.  It 
must  have  room  to  swell,  or  it  will  be  heavy.  To  have 
good  dressing  you  must  use  light  bread.  Stale  baker's 
bread  sliced  and  dried  in  the  oven  and  grated  on  a 
coarse  grater  makes  the  nicest  and  lightest  dressing, 
then  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  the  other 
ingredients.  By  stale  bread  I  mean  two  or  more  days 
old.  You  can  use  onion  or  sage  or  any  other  flavor- 
ing you  like  for  the  dressing. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  65 

To  Roast  a  Turkey. 

The  dressing  adds  very  much  to  the  flavor  of  the 
turkey  as  well  as  keeping  it  plump.  Stuff  the  body 
then  the  crop  and  sew  it  up  with  a  coarse  thread;  then 
truss  it  by  turning  the  tips  of  the  wings  under  the 
shoulder  (they  will  stay  themselves);  then  tie  the  legs 
down  to  the  rump  with  cord,  tight.  Of  course  you 
have  rubbed  it  inside  and  out  with  salt  before  stuffing. 
Put  it  on  the  rack  in  your  dripping  pan  on  its  back, 
after  you  have  rubbed  the  outside  with  butter.  Put 
water  in  pan,  not  enough  to  cover  rack  or  you  will 
have  a  par-boiled  turkey,  a  little  salt  in  water,  and 
baste  it  every  fifteen  minutes.  Do  not  burn  it,  but  it 
it  may  get  brown  a  little  in  three-fourths  of  an 
hour.  Then  make  a  stiff  dough  of  flour  and  water,  a 
little  salt,  and  roll  out  the  dough  one-half  inch  thick, 
large  enough  to  cover  the  top  and  sides  of  turkey; 
leave  it  on  till  about  done,  then  lift  it  off  and  baste 
again,  and  have  the  top  and  sides  a  nice  crisp  brown. 
Keep  hot  water  in  tea  kettle  to  replenish  as  the  water 
boils  out.  If  too  fat  dip  it  off  of  gravy  and  thicken 
with  flour,  making  the  quantity  according  to  size  of 
turkey.  An  eight  or  nine  pound  turkey  \^'ill  roast  in 
two  hours.  A  fourteen-pound  will  take  three  or  more 
hours.  If  you  like  you  can  boil  the  giblets  (that  is, 
the  liver,  heart  and  gizzard)  till  tender,  hash  fine  and 
add  to  gravy.  Allow  twenty  minutes'  time  for  every 
pound  of  turkey  and  twenty  minutes  longer.  A  young 
hen  turkey  is  the  best  for  roasting.  It  should  be 
plump  and  fat,  the  legs  black,  the  skin  white  and 
short  neck.  If  old  the  legs  will  be  reddish  and  rough. 
A  gobbler,  if  young,  will  have  black  legs  and  short 
spurs.  They  are  much  larger  than  a  hen  at  same  age. 
The  flesh  01  an  old  gobbler  is  strong  and  tough,   legs 


66  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

reddish  and  long  spurs,  and  the  grizzly  end  of  breast 
bone  will  be  hard  and  sharp,  the  same  as  in  an  old 
chicken.  You  can  not  give  it  the  flavor  of  a  young 
turkey.  Serve  with  cranberry  sauce,  pickles,  sweet 
potatoes  and  fried  oysters.  Fry  the  oysters  while  the 
turkey  is  being  carved,  as  a  cold  oyster  is  not  relisha- 
ble. 

To  Boil  a  Turkey,  or  Steam  It. 

Dress  and  prepare  it  the  same  as  for  roasting.  Rub 
it  with  lemon,  sprinkle  with  flour,  tie  it  up  in  a  sheer 
cloth  with  cord;  put  it  into  boiling  hot  water,  after  stir- 
ring up  two  tablespoons  of  flour  in  a  little  milk,  add- 
ing one  quart  of  milk  and  the  flour  to  the  water,  salt 
also;  let  it  simmer,  not  boil  hard,  till  tender.  Stir  the 
water  four  times  as  the  flour  settles.  This  preserves 
the  juices  of  the  fowl,  which  makes  it  more  nourish- 
ing.     Jylake  a  drawn  butter  of  the  liquor. 

Cold  Roast  Turkey. 

Is  nice  sliced  off  for  tea,  or  warmed  in  the  gravy 
for  breakfast,  or  made  in  croquettes. 

To  Prepare  Giblets. 

Cut  the  gall  bladder  (being  careful  not  to  break  it) 
from  the  liver  and  throw  it  in  the  fire  or  bury  it.  Cut 
the  heart  open,  remove  the  clotted  blood.  Cut  the 
gizzard  open  to  the  inner  lining,  but  do  not  cut  it, 
drawing  the  meat  from  it.  Wash  and  they  are  ready 
to  boil  till  tender,  salt. 

Chickens. 

Chickens,  ducks,  geese,  pigeons  and  all  birds,  are 
cleaned,  dressed  and  trussed  in  the  same  manner  as 
turkeys,  according  as  you  wish  to  broil,  fry,  or  roast. 


The  Oiiccn  Cook  Book  6/ 

Select  a  chicken  with  firm  llesh,  yellow  skin  and  legs. 
If  young,  the  ccck  will  have  short  spurs,  and  cock  and 
hen  will  both  have  soft  smooth  legs,  and  tender  skin. 
The  small  end  of  breast  bone  will  be  gristly  and  not 
a  sharp  bone.  A  chicken  not  full  grown  has  not  a 
good  flavor.  A  chicken  six  months  or  more  old  is  best 
for  broiling.  They  should  be  drawn  or  emptied  as  soon 
as  killed  and  hung  in  the  coolest  place,  if  cold  weather, 
two  or  three  days. 

Roast  Chicken. 

Prepare  it  for  roasting  in  the  same  way  as  a  tur- 
key, allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  every  pound,  basting 
every  fifteen  min.utes.  Fifteen  minutes  before  it  is 
done,  rub  it  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  flour,  let 
brown,  make  a  gravy,  adding  a  cup  of  cream,  using  the 
giblets  if  you  like. 

Boiled  or  Steamed  Chicken. 

Prepare  it  and  boil  it  the  same  way  as  a  turkey 
to  eat  with  boiled  rice. 

To  Broil  Spring  Chicken. 

Singe  and  clean  the  outside  taking  off  the  head  and 
feet,  split  the  chicken  down  the  back,  taking  out  the 
internals.  Break  the  breast  bone,  so  it  will  lie  flat. 
Rub  both  sides  with  butter  and  salt.  Rub  the  gridiron 
with  suet,  lay  the  chicken  on;  the  inside  down,  and 
have  a  close  sheet  iron  cover,  and  not  very  hot  coals, 
renewing  them  twice.  When  it  is  o\er  half  done  turn 
it  and  let  it  brown.  It  will  take  from  thirty  to  forty- 
five  minutes  to  broil,  with  a  steady  heat.  It  must  not 
burn.  Take  it  up,  rub  a  little  butter  on  it  and 
sprinkle  with  pepper.      Serve  immediately. 


68  The  Quern  Cook  Book 

Chicken  with  Cream. 

Take  a  spring  chicken  and  prepare  it  the  same  as 
for  broihng,  place  it  skin  side  up,  on  the  rack  ■  of 
roasting  pan,  with  a  Httle  water  salted,  and  covered. 
When  just  done,  brush  it  over  with  beaten  ei:,g  and 
sprinkle  with  rolled  cracker,  and  let  it  brown;  make 
a  cream  gravy  and  put  in  gravy  boat. 

Fried  Chicken. 

You  can  cut  it  up  as  for  fricassee  chicken  and  fry,  or 
butter  it  and  put  in  oven  in  dripping  pan  to  bake  and 
brown,  or  cut  it  up  and  cook  it  the  same  as  chicken 
with  cream,  only  put  the  cream,  on  the  chicken  platter. 

Fricassee  Chicken,  White. 

Singe  and  dress  the  chicken  as  directed,  first  dis- 
joint the  legs  at  each  joint,  then  the  two  wings  making 
six  pieces.  Cut  through  the  ribs  on  both  sides  break- 
ing off  the  lower  back.  Disjoint  the  neck  and  upper 
back  from  the  breast,  cut  the  breast  in  half  length- 
wise, smoothly  in  two  pieces,  make  two  pieces  of 
lower  back.  Salt  and  put  in  kettle  and  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  just  boil  only  till  tender,  an  hour  or 
more  according  to  age.  When  the  chicken  is  done, 
there  should  be  nearly  water  enough  for  gravy  by  the 
addition  of  a  cup  of  milk,  or  a  half  cup  of  cream,  and 
a  little  butter  if  the  chicken  is  not  fat.  Pepper. 
You  can  put  on  bread  or  biscuit  split  if  you  like. 
Some  like  finger  strips  of  salt  pork  cooked  with 
it.      Serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Fricassee  Chicken,   Brown. 

Prepare  the  same  as  the  above  only  brown  your 
flour  and  butter  for  the  gravy,  and  brown  the  chicken 


Tlic  Onccn  Cook  Book  69 

in  the  butter  ond  put  it  back  in  kettle  and   thicken 
with  the  brown  flour. 

Chicken  Pot  Pie. 

Prepare  and  cook  the  chickens  the  same  as  for 
fricassee  ready  for  table,  only  have  more  broth  for 
gravy.  When  the  chicken  is  within  twenty-five  min- 
utes of  being  done,  stir  up  stiff  enough  to  cut  off  with 
spoon,  baking  powder  biscuit,  what  you  need;  drop  in 
steamer  on  top  of  chicken.  Steam  thirty  minutes; 
take  up.  thicken  gravy,  pour  some  on  platter  over  the 
chicken,  put  the  rest  in  gravy  dish. 

Baked  Chicken  Pie. 

Make  a  fricassee  of  two  chickens  and  thicken,  cook 
and  season  all  ready  for  table.  Then  line  the  sides 
and  bottom  of  your  baking  pan  (all  in  one  piece  of 
crust),  with  a  good  pie  crust  one-fourth  of  an  inch 
thick.  Put  in  the  chicken  hot,  with  part  gravy  and 
cover  with  crust  a  little  thicker.  As  soon  as  the  crust 
is  baked  it  is  done.  Put  it  on  table  in  same  dish. 
Have  some  gravy  in  gravy  dish,  for  crust  at  table. 
This  is  always  nice  to  have  with  roast  turkey  on 
Thanksgiving  day,  and  if  a  large  table  it  helps  the  tur- 
key to  go  farther.  Remember,  the  right  seasoning 
with  pepper  and  salt  is  the  beauty  of  meats. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Cut  up  two  tender  chickens,  salt  as  for  eating,  and 
put  in  boiling  water,  enough  to  hardly  cover,  cook  till 
tender,  take  all  the  bones  out  while  hot,  let  get  cold, 
then  cut  in  small  bits  like  large  peas  and  the  celery 
the  same  with  a  silver  knife.  Have  one-half  as  much 
celery  as  chicken,  in  measure,  that  is,  to  one  quart  of 
chicken,  one  pint  of  celery.      Mix  them  together  and 


70  TJtc  Ouccii  Cook  Book 

cover  tight  to  exclude  all  the  air.  You  can  prepare 
this  and  the  salad  dressing  in  the  fore  part  of  the  day 
for  the  evening.  The  broth  that  is  left  will  make  a 
nice  little  soup. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Boil  six  eggs  eight  minutes,  then  drop  them  one 
minute  into  cold  water  (which  prevents  the  outside  of 
yolk  from  turning  green).  Rub  the  mealy  yolks 
smooth  with  a  silver  spoon  and  in  an  earthen  dish,  add 
gradually,  beating  well,  one  even  teaspoon  of  salt  the 
last  thing,  six  tablespoons  of  softened  butter;  two  even 
teaspoons  of  mustard,  twelve  tablespoons  of  vinegar. 
Melt  more  butter  than  you  need,  so  as  not  to  use  the 
froth  and  settlings.  This  will  thicken  as  you  stir  in  or 
drop  in  the  vinegar;  if  too  thick  stir  in  more  vinegar 
and  butter.  When  nearly  ready  to  use  it,  mix  care- 
fully with  a  silver  fork;  this  dressing,  with  the  salad, 
arrange  nicely  in  a  salad  bowl,  garnished  with  parsley. 

Chicken  Croquettes. 

Cook  one  four  pound  chicken  tender  as  for  eating; 
take  out  all  the  bones,  skin  and  gristle.  When  cold 
chop  fine,  add  one  fourth  as  much  rolled  cracker,  or 
bread  crumbs  as  you  have  meat  b}'  measure;  one-half 
pint  of  cream  or  milk,  boiling  hot,  or  the  hot  broth  of 
chicken,  enough  to  make  it  just  moist,  to  cling  together 
nicely  and  swell  the  crumbs,  a  heaping  tablespoon  of 
butter,  tw^o  well-beaten  eggs;  season.  Stir  well  to- 
gether, and  make  up  in  .cone-shaped  balls  flatten  a 
little,  then  dip  in  beaten  Q.g^,  and  then  in  rolled 
cracker,  and  fr}^  a  light  brown  on  both  sides  in  spider, 
with  half  butter  and  half  suet.  Do  not  dry  them  up 
by  cooking  "too  fast,  as  this  destroys  the  nourishing 
juices  of  any  thing.      Most  recipes  say  cook  them  in 


The  On  ecu  Cook  Book  yi 

boiling  lard,  but  they  are  not  so  health)'.  It  might  do 
in  boiling  hot  suet.  Serve  with  a  napkin  on  platter, 
and  garnish  with  parsley  or  celery  tops  and  half  quar- 
ters of  lemon. 

Chicken  and  Oyster  Croquettes. 

These  are  made  the  same  way  with  the  addition  of 
one  pint  of  oysters  to  every  pint  of  chicken.  Wash 
the  oysters  in  as  little  hot  water  as  possible,  which 
scald  with  the  oyster  broth,  and  skim,  then  use  it  to 
moisten  the  croquettes  instead  of  milk  or  cream,  as  far 
as  it  will  go.  Take  out  the  hard  lobes  of  the  oyster, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  chop  raw,  lightly,  then 
mix  with  the  chicken. 

Meat  Croquettes. 

Cold  roast  chicken,  turkey,  lamb,  or  beef,  can  be 
prepared  in  the  same  manner,  taking  out  all  the  hard 
bits,  for  meat  croquettes. 

Tender  Chicken. 

"  After  a  fowl  is  killed  by  cutting  off  its  head,  hang 
it  in  a  cool  place  until  it  becomes  cold;  keep  it  one, 
two  or  three  days,  according  to  weather;  it  is  then  as 
tender  as  it  ever  will  be,  and  the  flavor  will  never  be 
better;  no  further  keeping  will  ever  improve  it.  This 
advice  should  be  heeded  by  those  housewives  who  pre- 
cipitate a  chicken  from  the  hen-coop  to  the  dinner-pot 
when  company  comes  unexpectedly  and  then  wonder 
why  the  chicken  is  so  tough,  or  lacking  in  the  best 
flavor."     Those  who  keep  chickens  can  try  it. 

Pork. 

Pork  is  considered  more  indigestible  than  any  other 
meat,  and  should   not  be   eaten  by  persons  of  weak 


/-' 


The  Oitccii  Cook  Book 


digestion  or  by  young  children.  It  is  particularly 
injurious  to  any  one  that  is  liable  to  any  skin  disease. 
It  is  best  used  in  cold  weather,  and  should  be 
thoroughly  cooked.  In  healthy  pork  the  lean  is  of  a 
fine  grain  and  pale  red  color,  the  fat  white  and  the 
skin  smooth.  If  the  flesh  is  soft,  the  fat  of  a  yellow- 
ish white  with  small  kernels,  it  is  diseased  pork,  do 
not  eat  it  under  any  circumstances.  It  is  the  way  the 
pig  and  hog  is  fed  that  causes  diseased  pork.  Many 
people  think  any  slops  they  can  pick  up  round  town  is 
good  enough  for  a  pig,  no  matter  how  old  it  may  be. 
No  wonder  there  is  trichina  in  pork.  Feed  them  as 
if  you  were  a  rational  being  appointed  to  care  for 
them  and  keep  their  pens  clean,  take  the  same  fore- 
thought and  care  of  them  as  one  ought  of  his  chickens 
or  cow,  and  you  will  be  rewarded  accordingly. 

Roast  Leg  of   Fresh  Pork. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  rind,  salt  and  sprinkle  with 
flour  if  you  like;  first  take  out  the  bone  and  fill  the 
cavity  with  turkey  dressing.  Gash  the  rind  in  half 
inch  squares.  Roast  in  hot  oven  from  three  to  four 
hours,  according  to  size.  Dip  off  the  fat,  add  water 
and  make  the  gravy.  Serve  with  onions  and  apple 
sauce. 

Roast  Loingof  Pork. 

Roast  a  loin  the  same  way,  with  or  without  dress- 
ing. Bake  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound  and  twenty 
minutes  longer.      Serve  with  apple  fritters. 

Roast  Spare  Rib. 

Crack  the  ribs  across  the  middle,  double  together, 
fill  in  with  turkey  dressing,  rub  with  salt,  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  flour,  sew  it  up,  put  it  on  the  rack  of  drip- 


TJic  Ouccii  Cook  Book  'j'i, 

ping  pan,  when  one  side  is  brown  turn  it  and  brown 
the  other,  pour  off  the  fat  and  make  a  gravy;  or  roast 
plain. 

Pork   Tenderloins. 

Spht  them  in  two  or  three  shoes  for  they  swell  very 
much  in  cooking,  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  brown  in 
drippings,  cook  thoroughly  and  make  a  gravy. 

Pork  Steaks  and  Chops. 

This  is  simply  to  salt  and  fry  in  the  spider, 
thoroughly  cooking  till  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides;  take 
out  the  meat,  add  water,  salt  and  pepper;  thicken 
with  fiour. 

Fried  Salt  Pork. 

Cut  slices  one-third  of  an  inch  thick  (freshen  if  too 
salt),  fry  brown,  pour  off  if  too  fat,  make  a  milk 
gravy. 

Boiled  Ham. 

First  soak  it  over  night  in  just  warm  water.  Wash 
and  scrape  it,  place  over  a  slow  fire,  not  to  boil,  for 
two  hours,  with  plenty  of  water,  then  place  it  on  the 
stove  where  it  w^ill  just  boil  till  a  fork  goes  in  easily. 
If  it  is  a  whole  ham  it  will  take  six  or  seven  hours,  ac- 
cording to  size;  let  it  stand  till  cold  in  liquor.  Then 
take  up  and  peal  off  the  skin,  rub  over  it  beaten  o.^'g 
and  sprinkle  fine  rolled  cracker  all  over  it  and  place  in 
oven  till  it  browns  nicely.  Then  stick  the  top  with 
cloves.  Make  a  paper  ruffle  for  the  shank  bone.  A 
large  porcelain  kettle  is  the  best  to  boil  it  in.  Letting 
it  stand  in  its  own  liquor  till  cold,  with  cover  off, 
renders  it  more  tender,  juicy  and  of  fine  flavor,  if  it 
was  good  to  begin  with. 


74  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


Cold  Boiled  Ham. 

It  can  be  used  in  other  ways,  besides  slicing  off  cold. 
Slices  can  be-  dipped  in  o.g'g  batter  and  fried,  or  the 
scraps  can  be  hashed  and  stirred  into  an  ^^g  omelet, 
or  scrambled  eggs;  or  hash  some  and  season  right 
(not  too  much  as  they  do  at  restaurants),  with 
mustard,  salt,  and  pepper  for  ham  sandwiches. 

Fried  Ham  and  Eggs. 

I  do  not  think  it  very  eatable;  it  is  so  hard,  but  the 
eggs  are  very  relishable  fried  in  the  ham  fat.  This  is 
one  way,  cut  the  slices  not  quite  one-half  of  an  inch 
thick,  trim  off  the  rind  and  all  that  is  discolored. 
Heat  the  spider  hot  and  lay  in  the  slices  of  ham.  As 
they  brown  on  one  side  turn  and  brown  the  other 
side,  then  pour  over  the  ham  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water,  how  many  will  depend  on  the  quantity 
of  ham.  Cover  the  spider  closely,  and  set  where  the 
heat  is  slow  for  fifteen  minutes.  The  water  by  that 
time  should  all  be  absorbed  and  the  ham  delicious. 


To  Bake  a  Ham. 

Many  persons  have  never  thought  of  baking  a  ham. 
This  is  the  way  they  do  it  down  in  old  Virginia.  Soak 
it  over  night  in  warm  water.  Scrape  it  clean,  wipe  it 
dry.  Make  a  stiff  dough  of  water  and  flour,  roll  it  out 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  the  size  of  ham  and  lay  it 
on  the  ham  with  the  rind  up.  Put  it  in  deep  pan  on 
muffin  rings  to  keep  it  out  of  drippings.  A  good  sized 
ham  will  take  from  five  to  seven  hours.  When  it  is 
tender  take  off  the  crust  and  peel  off  the  skin,  cut  of^ 
all  the  discolored  places,   glaze  it  all  over  with  the 


TIic  Queen  Cook  Book  75 

yolks  of  two  well  beaten  eggs,  and  sprinkle  fine  rolled 
cracker  on,  and  put  it  in  oven  again  to  brown. 

Another  Way. 

Prepare  it  as  for  boiled  ham,  and  boil  till  nearly 
tender,  three  or  four  hours,  according  to  size,  remove 
the  skin,  put  it  in  on  the  rings  in  pan,  rub  over  it  the 
juice  of  two  large  lemons,  then  cover  with  brown 
sugar,  place  in  oven  until  nicely  browned.  Cover 
with  a  large  tin  pan,  press  with  a  heavy  weight  over 
night.  Some  like  grape  or  currant  jell  well  rubbed 
into  the  ham  while  hot,  instead  of  lemon  or  Qg'^. 

Virginia-Cured   Hams. 

From  the  American  Agriculturist. 

In  Virginia  we  pride  ourselves  on  our  knack  of  cur- 
ing hams,  and  the  fact  that  Virginia-cured  hams  are 
greatly  prized  and  sought  after  by  outsiders  proves 
that  our  pretentions  are  not  altogether  groundless. 
There  is,  in  fact,  a  delicacy  of  flavor  in  a  ham  cured 
after  the  old  Virginia  method  that  is  not  found  in  ba- 
con raised  and  cured  elsewhere.  This  is  partly  due  to 
the  feeding  of  the  hog.  The  hogs  of  Western  pork- 
raisers  are  fed  with  a  view  to  producing  a  great  mass 
of  flesh,  for  every  pound  adds  to  the  profit  of  the  pork 
dealer;  but  in  Virginia,  where  we  are  merely  raising 
for  our  own  households,  we  aim  for  quality  rather  than 
quantity.  We  do  not  aim  to  have  enormously  large, 
fat  hogs,  knowing  that  they  will  not  be  delicately  fla- 
vored, but  are  satisfied  to  have  them  weigh  about  one 
hundred  and  fifty  pounds.  We  let  them  run  out  in 
the  pastures  and  graze,  or  range  the  woods  and  li\'e  on 
mast  until  about  six  weeks  before  killing  time,  when 
we  put  them  up  and  fatten  them  on  corn. 


'jd  Tlic  Oiicoi  Cook  Book 

After  the  hogs  have  been  killed  and  cut  up,  we  cure 
the  hams  as  follows:  First,  rub  a  teaspoonful  of  pul- 
verized saltpeter  on  each  ham,  to  give  it  a  red  color, 
then  rub  it  thoroughly  with  salt,  and  lastly  with  a  mix- 
ture of  molasses,  brown  sugar,  and  black  pepper. 
The  same  flavoring  may  also  be  applied  to  jowls  if 
desired.  Pack  the  hams  away,  with  the  skin  side 
down,  leaving  them  in  the  bulk  from  four  to  six  weeks, 
according  to  the  weather,  as  it  takes  the  saltpeter  a 
longer  time  to  strike  in  when  the  weather  is  cold.  In 
old  times  when  they  were  unpacked  the  hams  were 
always  put  in  the  smokehouse  and  smoked  about  six 
weeks  by  a  slow,  smoldering  fire  made  of  green  hickory 
chips.  About  April  first,  the  smoking  was  completed, 
and  then  there  were  two  wa}'s  of  proceeding;  either 
to  leave  the  meat  hanging  or  to  pack  it  away  again  in 
hickory  ashes  carefully  saved  during  the  process  of 
smoking.  The  latter  plan  was  doubtless  the  best  and 
safest.  When  it  was  pursued  there  ne\er  was  any 
complaint  of  skippers  or  other  vermin  in  the  meat. 
This  was  the  method  pursued  by  the  Massie  family,  in 
Virginia,  whose  hams  commanded  an  extra  price  from 
their  superior  excellence.  The  early  spring  is  the  time 
these  insects  first  appear,  and  as  the  smoking  goes  on 
then,  it  serves  to  keep  them  at  bay.  But  of  late  years 
Virginians  have  almost  given  up  smoking  their  meat. 
We  kill  hogs  on  so  much  smaller  a  scale  than  in 
slavery  times  that  we  can  keep  the  meat  in  our  store- 
rooms without  tlie  need  of  a  smokehouse.  Some 
housekeepers  congratulate  themselves  on  having  cut 
loose  from  the  old,  troublesome  method  of  curing 
meat,  and  they  say  it  is  just  as  well  i^a\-ored  without 
smoking.  Possibly  it  may  be;  but  I  have  noticed  that 
skippers  and  other  insects  have  increased  enormously 
since  we  discontinued  smoking  our  meat,  and  many  a 


The  On  ecu  Cook  Book  yj 

ham  that  oii^lit  to  have  furnished  the  family  with 
choice  cuts  finds  its  way  into  the  soap  fat.  I  am, 
therefore,  convinced  that  the  old  plan  is  the  best  and 
safest.  If,  howe\er,  this  is  inconvenient,  try  to  pro- 
tect the  meat  from  insects  by  means  of  bags.  As  soon 
as  they  have  dried  out,  after  being  unpacked  from  the 
bulk,  rub  them  thoroughly  with  black  pepper,  and  put 
them  in  sacks  of  stout  cotton,  tied  above  the  hock. 
Do  this  by  the  middle,  or  at  latest  by  the  last,  of  Feb- 
ruary, as  any  delay  might  occasion  the  loss  or  serious 
damage  of  the  meat. 

The  mode  of  boiling  a  ham  has  a  great  effect  on  its 
flavor.  A  ha;n  should  be  soaked  tv/elve  hours  before 
it  is  cooked.  Then  it  should  be  scraped  and  sunned 
the  previous  day,  unless  it  is  very  fresh.  It  should  be 
put  on  in  cold  water,  and  cooked  slowly  and  gradually. 
Then  leave  it  in  the  pot  until  it  is  cold,  as  it  will  thus 
re-absorb  a  considerable  portion  of  the  juices  it  has 
given  out  in  boiling.  Then  skin  it,  and  brown  it 
slightly  in  the  oven,  sprinkling  it  hrst  with  grated 
crackers  and  a  little  black  pepper.  Serve  it  in  a  dish 
garnished  with  parsley,  and  you  v/ill  find  it  "  a  dainty 
dish  to  set  before  a  king. 

Ham    Forcemeat. 

I    pint  cold    cooked   ham      ^  teaspoon  salt 

chopped  fine  ^  teaspoon  cayenne  pep- 

I  pint  new  milk  per 

Yi  pint  dried  bread  crumbs      i  teaspoon,  even,  mustard 
or  cracker  Yolks  of  three  eggs 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 
Put  the  bread  in  the  milk  on   to  boil,  stir  until  it 

thickens,  take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  eggs,  add  the 

other  ingredients,    set  away  to  cool.       This   may  be 


yS  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

sliced  off  cold  or  used  as  stuffiiij^  for  game  or  meats, 
or  made  into  croquet  shape,  dipped  in  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  fried  or  browned  in  hot  fat. 

Chicken  Forcemeat. 

This  is  made  the  same  way,  only  usin,cr  a  four  pound 
chicken  instead  of  ham. 

Pickle  for  Curing  Hams. 

To  six  gallons  of  water  add  nine  pounds  of  salt, 
half  coarse,  half  fine,  three  ounces  of  saltpeter,  three 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one 
heaping  tablespoon  saleratus.  Boil  all  together  and 
skim;  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  pour  over  the  hams, 
which  have  been'  rubbed  with  a  little  line  salt  and 
pack  in  a  barrel.  Let  them  lie  in  the  brine  five  or  six 
weeks,  after  which  drain  and  smoke  for  three  days. 
You  must  make  enough  to  cover  the  hams.  Put  a 
weight  on  top.  The  same  preparation  is  used  for 
pickling  beef.  A  pork  barrel  will  answer  for  pickling 
beef,  but  after  being  once  used  for  beef  must  never 
again  be  used  for  pork.  Many  losses  occur  from  ig- 
norance of  this  fact. 

Pig's  Head  Cheese. 

Split  open  a  pig's  head,  singe  off  the  hair;  cut  off 
the  whole  mouth,  nostrils,  ears  and  dig  out  the  eyes, 
brain  and  everything  but  the  meat.  Wash  it  clean, 
soak  it  over  night  in  warm  water  with  two  even  tea- 
spoons of  soda  in  it.  Next  morning  scrape  the  skin 
well  and  wash  in  two  waters.  Rub  it  well  with  salt 
and  put  over  to  boil  with  water  enough  to  cover  it. 
Skim  it  as  often  as  it  rises.      When  cooked  so  the  flesh 


The  Qklcii  Cook  Book  79 

leaves  the  bones  take  it  up  with  the  help  of  a  skim- 
mer. Then  take  out  all  the  bones;  be  careful  to  get 
all  the  small  ones.  Chop  it  line.  Season  to  taste 
with  salt,  pepper  and  dried  sifted  sage;  stir  it  in.  Lay 
a  thin  cloth  o\er  a  colander,  put  in  the  meat,  fold  the 
cloth  tightly  over  it,  cover  with  a  plate  the  right  si;^e 
and  lay  a  heavy  weight  on  it  over  night  to  press. 
Some  add  the  pig's  feet  with  it  dressed  as  for  souse. 
It  makes  a  nice  dish  sliced  off  for  tea.  Can  put  vine- 
gar on  it  as  you  eat  it.  A  good  change  for  breakfast 
with  soft-boiled  eggs  and  milk  toast.  A  good  winter 
dish. 

Pigs'  Feet  Souse. 

Take  the  legs  and  feet  of  two  pigs  about  eight 
mches  long  from  the  toes  up,  cut  them  in  two  about 
four  inches  long  each,  cut  off  the  entire  foot,  singe  off 
the  hairs,  soak  them  over  night  in  warm  water,  putting 
in  two  even  teaspoons  of  soda  as  a  cleanser.  In  the 
morning  scrape  them  well,  dipping  them  in  hot  lye, 
then  wash  them  in  two  more  waters.  They  nmst  be 
scraped  and  soaked  till  they  look  white.  Then  put 
over  to  boil  for  one-half  hour,  throw  off  that  water 
and  put  on  another  with  salt.  Skim  often;  let  boil 
till  the  bones  will  easil}'  pull  out,  but  do  not  pull 
them  out,  but  put  them  in  a  jar  with  half  vinegar 
and  half  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in.  To  prepare 
for  table  for  any  meal  you  wish,  though  best  for  sup- 
per, season,  add  more  vinegar  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Serve  hot. 


FISH. 

Fish  is  not  considered  so  nutritious  as  meat,  but  we 
can  eat  more  of  it,  as  it  is  more  easily  digested. 
There  is  not  much  doubt  but  that  it  would  be  better 


8o  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

for  us,  if  wc  ate  more  fish  than  we  do.  It  is  very 
healthy  and  by  some  considered  brain  food.  I  notice 
in  most  recipes  for  cookinj,'  lish,  that  lemon,  onion 
and  vinegar  are  reconnnended.  Use  them  if  you  like, 
but  we  prefer  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  fish.  Lemon 
or  vinegar  may  be  a  relish  on  frogs  or  shrimps. 

Baked  Fish. 

The  fish  should  alwa}s  be  Aery  carefully  and  thor- 
oughly cleaned,  scraped  outside  and  washed  well.  All 
fish  should  be  thoroughly  cooked.  Wipe  it  with  a  dry 
cloth,  rub  in  the  salt,  on  both  sides,  and  fill  with  tur- 
key dressing;  sew  it  up  carefully,  do  not  pack  it,  as  it 
will  swell.  If  you  leave  the  head  on  clean  it  well.  I 
take  it  off.  Lay  it  on  the  rack  of  roasting  pan  after 
rubbing  it  with  softened  butter,  put  in  pan  a  little 
v\ater  and  baste  three  times.  It  will  take  an  hour  or 
more  according  to  size.  It  is  served  with  drawn  but- 
ter, Hollandaise,  or  oyster  sauce.  When  fish  is  well 
cooked  it  will  cleave  from  the  bones  easily. 

Steamed  Fish  or  Boiled 

Fish  to  make  turbot  is  better  steamed  than  boiled. 
Dress  it  nicel\-,  rub  with  salt,  and  wrap  it  in  a  sheer 
cloth,  that  3'oii  may  take  it  out  without  breaking.  It 
can  be  steamed  and  stuffed  with  turkey  dressing  for 
dinner  and  served  with  drawn  butter.  To  boil  fresh 
fish  of  any  kind,  clean  the  fish,  wipe  dr}',  rub  with 
salt  both  sides,  roll  firmly  in  a  thin  white  cloth,  wind 
a  cord  around  the  fish  in  several  places,  put  in  a  large 
kettle  of  hot  water  salted.  If  the  fish  weighs  ten 
pounds  allow  one  and  a  half  hours  or  less  in  propor- 
tion. When  done  take  out  and  drain,  take  of^  the 
cord  and  cloth,  peel  the  skin  off,  taste  to  see  if  it  is 


The  Qitccn  Cook  Book  8i 

salt  enough.      Scr\c  with  Hollandaisc  sauce  or  drawn 
butter. 

Fried  Fish. 

Fish  to  be  fried,  after  being  well  cleaned,  wipe 
with  a  dry  cloth,  rub  with  salt,  dredge  lightly  with 
Hour,  place  in  hot  spider  with  drippings  and  butter. 
Turn  carefully  without  breaking,  when  brown.  Brown 
both  sides,  but  do  not  burn.  Cut  the  pieces  three 
inches  wide  for  frying.  All  lish  should  be  freshly 
caught. 

Creamed  Fish. 

A  nice  breakfast  dish.  The  day  before  you  wish 
to  use  it,  prepare  a  fish  the  size  you  need,  rub  salt  on 
it,  wrap  in  cheese  cloth,  either  steam  or  boil  it  slowly 
for  thirty  minutes;  skin  it  and  take  out  the  bones 
while  hot,  and  when  cool  take  a  silver  fork  and  pick  it 
into  flakes.  Be  careful  not  to  muss  it.  In  the  morn- 
ing put  over  the  fire  one  pint  of  milk,  braid  together 
two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  until  smooth; 
when  milk  is  hot  stir  in  some  of  it  gradually  on 
the  paste  until  it  is  boiled  enough  to  cook  the  flour, 
pour  on  the  fish;  a  sprinkle  of  pepper  and  salt. 

TURBOT    A    LA    CrEME. 

Steam  until  tender  one  white  fish,  first  rubbing  it 
with  salt,  after  nicely  cleaning.  Then  take  off  the 
skin,  pick  out  all  the  bones;  pick  the  fish  up.  For 
dressing:  One  pint  of  milk,  boiled;  braid  together 
two  teaspoons  of  flour,  four  tablespoons  of  butter  and 
stir  in  milk  with  white  pepper  and  salt  as  you  like.  Cook 
five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  cool  add  two 
well  beaten  eggs.    Put  in  the  baking  dish  a  layer  of  fish 


82  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

then  a  layer  of  dressing,  and  so  on,  till  the  dish  is  full; 
a  sprinkle  of  rolled  cracker  crumbs  on  top  and  sprinkle 
this  with  milk  enough  to  moisten  them.  Bake  one- 
half  hour  in  moderate  oven,  browning  the  top.  Serve 
in  same  dish,  which  should  be  a  pudding  dish.  A  nice 
supper  dish,  with  hot  biscuit  and  Saratoga  potatoes. 
The  dressing  must  always  be  only  as  thick  as  cream. 

Fish  Souffle  to  Bake  in  Shells. 

Prepared  the  same  as  for  turbot,  only  you  mix 
fish  and  dressing  (after  cooking)  with  one  small  cup  of 
fine  rolled  cracker,  with  a  fork.  Fill  the  shells  or 
cups  (butter  them  first)  with  the  fish;  sprinkle  top 
with  cracker,  dampen  with  sprinkle  of  milk.  Set  them 
in  dripping  pan  of  hot  water,  bake  twenty  minutes, 
brown  the  top.      Serve  hot  for  lunches. 

Creamed  Salmon. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  salmon  and  chop 
fine.  Then  proceed  the  same  way  as  for  other  fresh 
fish  to  make  a  turbot  or  souffle.  If  you  use  fresh  sal- 
mon you  must  boil  it  first.      Season. 

Canned  Salmon. 

Canned  salmon  is  cooked  before  canning.  If  you  pre- 
fer it  heated,  set  the  can  in  steamer,  or  boiling  water. 
Open,  drain  off  all  the  liquid,  then  remove  to  a  platter, 
taking  out  any  skin  or  poor  pieces.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Potted   Shad  or  any  Fresh  Fish. 

Make  use  of  it  the  day  it  is  caught  if  possible.  For 
five  pounds  of    fish  rub  in  two  even  tablespoons   of 


The  Queen  Cock  Book  83 

salt.  Cut  the  fish  in  pieces  about  an  inch  wide  and 
four  inches  long.  Make  a  mixture  of  spices,  of  one 
even  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  two  teaspoons  each  of 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  mix  thoroughly.  Put 
a  layer  of  fish  in  a  stone  jar  and  sprinkle  each  layer 
with  the  mixed  spice,  sprinkle  flour  and  bits  of  butter 
on  each  layer,  repeating  till  done.  Fill  jar  with  equal 
parts  of  vinegar  and  water.  •  Tie  on  top  a  stiff  writing 
paper  and  lay  on  top  of  that  a  stiff  dough  of  flour  and 
water.  Bake  from  four  to  six  hours.  When  cold 
slice. 

A  Supper  Dish. 

Select  a  three-pound  fish,  dress,  salt  and  wrap  in  a 
thin  cloth  and  boil  or  put  in  steamer,  salt  the  water, 
cook  thirty  minutes.  While  this  is  boiling  (if  you  wish 
it),  boil  four  eggs  hard,  say  eight  minutes,  drop  them 
into  cold  water  for  one  minute,  so  the  yolk  outside 
will  not  turn  green.  When  cold  separate  the  yolk 
and  whites  and  chop  each  separately.  Remove  the 
fish  to  the  center  of  a  large  platter.  Place  about  four 
inches  of  the  yolks  and  then  four  inches  of  the 
chopped  whites  alternatel}'  till  you  have  encircled  the 
fish.  Wash  and  chop  fine  parsley  enough  to  sprinkle 
over  the  whole.  Cut  lemons  in  two  lengthwise,  then 
cut  each  half  in  four  pieces  and  lay  around  the  fish, 
serving  it  with  it,  either  hot  or  cold.  Serve  with 
creamed  potatoes  and  spiced  pickles. 

Broiled  Fish. 

When  fish  are  to  be  broiled  they  should  be  split 
down  the  back,  leaving  head  and  tail  on.  Wash  and 
wipe  dry,  salt,  grease  the  whole  broiler  with  suet; 
place  the  fish  flesh  side  down,  which  should  always  be 
cooked  first  and  longer,  on  medium  hot  coals.     When 


<S4  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

half  cookea  turn  platter  on,  then  turn  platter  and 
broiler  over  together,  unless  you  have  a  double  wire 
broiler;  the  skin  side  needs  careful  attention,  as  it 
burns  easil}-.  \\'hen  done  loosen  carefully,  so  as  not 
to  break  it,  and  slide  onto  platter  inside  up.  Serve 
with  pepper  and  butter. 

Salt  Boiled  Mackerel. 

Soak  in  tepid  water  twelve  hours,  changing  the 
water  once  or  twice  according  to  saltness.  Clean, 
wipe  dry  with  a  cloth.  Wrap  the  fish  in  a  cloth  and 
boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  from  the  water, 
pepper  and  butter  it,  set  in  oven  three  minutes,  serve 
with  baked  potatoes. 

Broiled  Salt  JNIackerel. 

Is  prepared  in  the  same  way,  only  broiled  instead  of 
boiling. 

Halibut  Steak. 

Take  a  piece  halibut  an  inch  or  more  thick,  rub  in 
salt,  butter  the  bottom  of  dripping  pan,  pepper  it. 
Sprinkle  with  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  cut  in 
bits  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  put  on  it;  bake 
thirty  minutes.  Serve  this  with  HoUandaise  sauce 
\vhich  may  be  prepared,  all  but  cooking,  several  hours 
before  needed. 

HOLLANDAISE    SaUCE. 

Measure  one-half  cup  butter  and  cream  it,  add  the 
yolks  of  two  raw  unbeaten  eggs.  \\'hen  nearly  ready 
to  serve,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  one-half  of  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water  slowly  beating  until  it  thickens 
like  soft  custard,  cooking  in  double  boiler. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  85 


Creamed  Cod  Fish. 

For  four  persons,  pick  up  a  bowl  full  of  cod  fish 
fine,  picking-  out  all  the  bones.  Freshening-  by 
squeezing  it  with  hand  in  a  quart  of  cold  w^ater  from 
three  to  fi\e  minutes,  leaving  salt  enough  in  it  to  salt 
the  cream  or  milk  it  is  cooked  in.  Put  it  in  a  pint  of 
milk  or  half  cream,  squeeze  all  the  water  out.  If  you 
use  milk  one  tablespoon  of  good  butter,  if  cream,  no 
butter.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  one 
beaten  ^^'^,  and  boil  four  minutes,  just  enough  to  cook 
the  flour,  do  not  boil  the  fish  any  niore  as  it  makes  it 
hard;  you  can  put  it  on  as  many  half  slices  of  bread  as 
persons  to  eat.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  white  pepper, 
slice  hard  boiled  eggs,  as  many  as  there  are  persons, 
laying  them  on  top.  For  a  weak  stomach  cook  it  in 
water,  let  them  sip  the  thin  broth.  The  beauty  of 
this  depends  upon  not  freshening  too  much  or  not 
enough,  this  requires  some  experience.  Soaking  or 
.scalding  cod  fish  to  freshen  it  takes  all'  the  cod  fish 
flavor  out  of  it,  and  no  amount  of  seasoning  can  put  it 
back. 

Cod  Fish  Balls. 

Freshen  the  fish  the  same  as  for  creamed  fish, 
squeeze  dry,  to  one  cup  of  cod  fish  put  two  cups  of 
seasoned  mashed  potatoes,  two  beaten  eggs,  mix  well 
with  a  fork,  with  cream  enough  to  moisten  and  a  little 
butter.  Make  into  balls  one-half  inch  thick,  nearly 
three  inches  across,  allowing  two  for  a  person.  Dip 
in  beaten  &^'^  and  then  in  flour.  Brown  m  butter  and 
drippings.  These  are  very  nice.  Do  not  cook  too 
fast.  In  cool  weather  you  can  prepare  enough  for 
two  meals.  They  are  good  for  supper  or  break- 
fast, with  boiled  eggs  or  poached  eggs  on  toast. 


86  The  Onccn  Cook  Book 


Boiled  Cod  Fish. 

Boil  a  piece  of  cod  fish  according  to  size  of  family, 
boil  thirty  minutes  slowly.  Serve  with  mashed  pota- 
toes and  drawn  butter  for  dinner. 

Fried  Frogs. 

The  hind  legs  are  the  only  parts  that  are  used.  In  the 
markets  you  buy  them  read}'  skinned.  Wash  them 
in  strong  salt  water,  then  pour  on  boiling  hot  water, 
let  stand  on  them  five  minutes,  then  rub  them  with 
lemon  juice  after  wiping  them  dry,  then  rub  with 
salt,  boil  three  minutes,  wipe  dry,  dip  in  beaten  ^%^ 
and  then  in  flour  or  fine  rolled  cracker,  then  fry  in  hot 
spider  with  half  butter  and  half  .drippings  and  brown 
them.  Can  prepare  them  in  same  way  and  broil 
them;  dress  as  broiled  chicken. 

Lobsters. 

Lobsters  when  freshly  caught,  have  some  muscular 
action  in  their  claws  which  may  be  excited  by  pressing 
the  eyes.  The  heaviest  lobsters  for  their  si;^e  are  the 
best.  A  four-pound  one  is  good  size.  The  male  is 
thought  to  have  the  highest  flavor,  the  flesh  is  firmer 
and  the  shell  has  a  brighter  red,  and  is  considered 
best  during  fall  and  spring.  It  ma}-  be  readily  distin- 
guished from  the  female,  as  the  tail  is  narrower  and 
the  two  uppermost  fins  within  the  tail  are  stifi  and 
hard;  those  of  the  female  are  soft  and  the  tail  broader. 


Never  buy  a  dead  lobster.  They  should  be  perfectly 
fresh  and  very  lively.  The  male  lobster  is  preferred 
for  eating    and    the    female    for    making   sauces    and 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  87 

soups.  The  female  has  a  broader  tail  and  fewer  claws 
than  the  male.  If  possible  always  boil  the  lobster  at 
home,  but  in  some  localities  where  it  is  a  necessity  to 
buy  them  boiled,  see  that  the  tail  is  stiff  and  elastic, 
so  that  when  you  bend  it  out,  it  springs  back  immedi- 
atel}',  otherwise  they  were  dead  before  boiling.  Lob- 
sters boiled  when  dead  are  watery  and  soft;  they  are 
poisonous. 

To  Boil  and  Open  a  Lobster. 

Fill  a  kettle  with  warm  water  (not  boiling);  put  in 
the  lobster,  head  downward;  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt; 
cover  the  kettle  and  stand  it  over  a  very  quick  fire. 
They  suffer  less  by  being  put  into  warm  than  in  boiling 
water.  In  the  latter  they  are  killed  by  heat;  in  warm 
water  they  are  smothered.  A  medium-sized  lobster 
should  boil  half  an  hour;  a  larger  one  three-quarters. 
Cooking  them  too  long  makes  them  tough,  and  the 
meat  will  stick  to  the  shell.  When  done  and  cool 
separate  the  tail  from  the  body  and  twist  off  all  the 
claws;  shake  out  carefully  the  tom-allez  (this  is  the 
liver  of  the  lobster  and  may  be  known  by  its  greenish 
color),  also  the  coral.  Then  draw  the  body  from  the 
shell,  remove  the  stomach  (sometimes  called  the  lady), 
which  is  found  immediately  under  the  head,  and  throw 
this  away.  Now  split  the  body  through  the  center 
and  pick  the  meat  from  the  cells;  cut  the  under  side 
of  the  tail  shell,  loosen  the  meat  and  take  it  out  in  one 
solid  piece.  Now  split  the  meat  of  the  tail,  open  and 
you  will  discover  a  little  vein  running  its  entire  length 
— this  remove.  The  vein  is  not  alwa}'s  the  same  color; 
sometimes  it  is  red,  sometimes  black  and  sometimes 
white;  but  in  all  cases  it  must  be  carefully  taken  out 
and  thrown  away.     The  stomach  or  lad}^,  the  vein, 


88  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

and  the  spongy  fingers  between  the  body  and  the  shell, 
are  the  only  parts  not  eatable.  Crack  the  claws  and 
take  out  the  meat.  To  serve  plain  boiled  lobster, 
arrange  the  meat  thus:  taken  out  in  the  center  of  a  cold 
dish,  garnishing  with  the  claws,  sprigs  of  fresh  parsley, 
hard  boiled  eggs  cut  into  quarters  and  pickled  beets 
cut  into  fancy  shapes.  Let  each  person  season  to  suit 
one's  self. 

Lobster  Turbot 

Is  made  the  same  as  fish  turbot,  or  scalloped,  as  some 
call  it. 

Sturgeon. 

Sturgeon  fish  are  only  good  fried  or  baked.  For 
frying,  boil  it  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes  to  take  out  the 
strong  taste.  If  it  is  not  already  skinned,  skin  it,  and 
cut  in  two-inch  pieces  and  fr}'  as  other  fish,  only 
longer,  till  well  done.  It  is  a  large  fish  and  used  to 
be  called  Alban}-  beef.  It  is  indeed  as  large  as  a  large 
calf,  being  from  four  to  six  feet  long.  In  a  large  fam- 
ily one  can  use  a  piece  large  enough  to  stuff  or  fill  with 
turkey  dressing,  and  bake,  sew  it  up,  putting  slices  of 
ham  on  it  and  under.      Parboil  it  first. 

To  Pickle  Salmon. 

1 2  pounds  salmon  i  red  pepper 

3  quarts  vinegar  i  5  pepper  corns 

1  pint  boiling  water  3  bay  leaves 

2  onions  sliced  3  tablespoons  whole  mus- 
20  cloves  tard 

3  sticks  mace  3  tablespoons  brown  sugar 
Clean  nicely,    rub  it  well  with  salt,  using  a  table- 
spoonful,    cover  with   boiling  water,    and  boil  fifteen 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  89 

minutes  to  every  pound.  When  done,  drain  off  the 
water,  roll  the  fish  tight  in  dry  cloth,  to  dry  it,  then 
skin  it  and  cut  it  up.  Tie  all  the  spices  in  thin  mus- 
lin and  boil  in  the  \inegar  and  water  fifteen  minutes 
till  you  get  the  strength  out.  Then  put  in  the  salmon 
and  boil  five  minutes.  Have  your  air  tight  glass  jars 
in  boiling  water,  empty  and  set  in  the  hot  water  as 
you  fill  them  with  the  salmon  full,  then  fill  up  all  the 
places  well  between  with  the  boiling  liquor;  screw 
tight  and  keep  in  a  dark,  cool,  dry  place.  You  can 
pickle  halibut  and  sturgeon  in  the  same  wa}'. 

Eels,  Stewed  or  Fried. 
They  should  not  be  eaten  in  the  hot  months,  and  be 
eaten  the  day  they  are  caught.  Skin  and  clean  the 
eels,  cut  of^  their  heads  and  take  out  all  that  is 
stringy,  cut  into  pieces  about  three  inches  long;  par- 
boil them  about  ten  minutes,  drain  off  that  water, 
then  put  on  one  pint  of  veal  soup  stock,  season  with 
salt,  butter  and  pepper,  boil  slowly  about  twenty-five 
minutes,  then  thicken  with  flour  and  pour  over  them. 
Use  parsley  or  onion  if  you  like.  Fry  eels  the  same 
as  fish,  after  parboiling. 

Fried  Smelts. 

Cut  off  the  fins,  wipe  dry,   beat  two  eggs  and  put  a 

melted  teaspoon  of  butter  in  the  eggs,  dip  the  smelts 

in  the  ^g'^,  then  in  the  rolled  cracker  and  fry  like  fish 

in  half  butter  and  half  lard,  till  they  are  a  rich  brown. 

Stewed  Oysters. 
50  oysters  ^  cup  rolled  cracker 

Yi  pint* cream  y>  half  cup  hot  water 

Yz  pint  milk  Salt  and  pepper  t(3  taste 

2  tablespoons  butter 
Empt\-  the  can  of  oysters  and  broth  in   dish,  pour 


90  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

on  the  one-half  cup  of  hot  water,  take  the  hand  (after 
washing)  and  stir  to  rinse  off  the  broth,  and  take  out 
the  oysters  with  the  hand  (feehngfor  any  bits  of  shell); 
drain  well;  put  this  broth  in  stew  kettle;  let  come  to  a 
simmer;  skim  every  particle  of  scum,  then  add  the 
cream  and  milk;  let  come  to  a  boil.  After  putting 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  on  top  of  the  oysters,  set 
kettle  where  it  will  not  boil,  pour  the  oysters  in  and 
let  stand,  stirring  a  little,  say  eight  minutes.  As  soon 
as  they  begin  to  shrink  take  them  off  and  pour  onto  the 
rolled  cracker  in  hot  tureen,  strirring  so  it  will  not  be 
lumpy.  Serve  immediately.  If  the  oysters  boil  up 
even  once  they  become  hardened.  The  pure  flavor  of 
an  oyster  is  better  than  anything  3'ou  can  flavor  it 
with.      It  needs  nothing. 

Oysters  on  Toast. 

This  may  be  quickly  prepared  after  everything  and 
all  the  family  are  ready  for  tea.  Have  coals  ready  for 
the  toast.  Toast  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  there  are 
members  of  family.  Take  as  many  oysters  as  you 
need  and  scald  the  pure  broth  and  skim,  add  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  a  little  cream,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
it  as  thick  as  cream,  and  boil  a  minute  to  cook  the 
fiour,  then  put  in  the  oysters  and  let  them  get  boiling 
hot  through  without  boiling.  A  half-warmed  oyster  is 
not  acceptable.  Lay  buttered  toast  on  platter  and 
pour  on  oysters  and  broth.  If  more  broth  put  it 
in  gravy  tureen.  Be  careful  not  to  have  too  much 
broth  on  toast,  or  it  will  be  soaked.  The  toast  must 
be  toasted  brown,  not  white  nor  black.  I  prepare 
this  myself  while  the  maid  toasts  the  bread,  then  it  is 
all  served  hot  and  seasoned  desirable. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  91 


Fried  Oysters. 

Take  the  largest  oysters,  pour  on  a  half  cup  of  hot 
water  and  stir  to  take  off  the  liquor;  drain  well;  la}'  on 
dry  cloth,  then  pepper  and  salt  them  and  dip  in  leatcn 
egg,  then  in  fine  rolled  cracker  and  fry  on  grid  lie  or 
spider.      Serve  hot. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Another  way  is  to  prepare  them  in  same  way  and 
fry  them  in  boiling  hot  fat — half  suet  and  half  lard. 
They  will  cook  a  golden  brown  in  three  minutes. 

Oyster  Fritters. 

Select  the  largest  oysters,  drain  well,  lay  on  dry 
cloth,  salt  and  pepper  them;  take  the  liquor,  boil  and 
skim,  add  salt,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  beaten  eggs, 
sift  with  six  tablespoons  of  Hour,  one  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder,  beat  all  well  together.  Have  a  spider 
of  hot  fat  as  for  fried  cakes — half  suet  and  half  lard. 
Put  oysters  in  batter  and  drop  one  by  one  in  the  boil- 
ing hot  fat.  First  drop  a  small  bit  of  bread  in  to 
test  the  heat;  if  it  browns  quickly  it  is  hot  enough. 
Turn  them  when  half  done.  Cook  them  a  golden 
brown.      It  will  take  about  four  minutes.       Serve  hot. 

Baked  Oysters. 

Take  large,  fresh  oysters;  scrub  the  shells  till  per- 
fectly clean,  then  place  in  baking  pan  in  a  quick  oven, 
and  bake  till  they  open  themselves.  Take  off  the  top 
shell,  leaving  the  oyster  in  lower  shell.  Season  with 
a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Only  those  who  live 
near  oyster  beds  can  enjoy  these  in  their  freshness. 


92  The  Quccii  Cook  Book 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Wipe  your  oysters  (select  large  ones)  in  a  dry  nap- 
kin. Season  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  in  raw  beaten  o.^'g 
and  then  in  fine  rolled  cracker  or  fine  bread  crumbs. 
Take  a  fine  new  wire,  double  in  form  of  a  hairpin,  say 
two  of  them.  String  the  oysters  on  them  and  lay  on 
fine' gridiron,  or  fasten  the  wires  on  a  long  stick  or 
cane,  and  hold  them  in  front  of  a  hot  fire.  Grease 
the  gridiron  with  salt  pork  or  butter.  Bread  crumbs 
are  prepared  by  drying  slices  in  the  oven  and  then 
grating.  Serve  oysters  on  hot  dishes  and  h(jt  plates 
always. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Prepare  a  puff  paste  (see  index),  roll  thin,  cut  out 
with  a  cutter  three  or  more  inches  in  diameter.  Leave 
the  bottom  layer  whole,  cut  out  the  center  of  two 
other  layers,  leaving  the  rings  one-half  the  width  of 
circle,  place  the  two  rings  on  the  whole  one.  Make  as 
many  as  you  need  and  bake  on  tins  just  a  little  golden 
tinge,  as  they  will  brown  a  little  more  when  filled. 
You  can  make  these  the  day  before  you  use  them,  in 
winter  two  or  three  days,  and  fill  them  thirty  minutes 
before  eating.  If  you  live  in  a  city  you  can  purchase 
these  of  a  caterer  and  fill  them  yourself.  Prepare  the 
oysters  the  same  as  stewed  oysters,  only  make  less 
broth.  Fill  the  patties  with  the  oysters,  saj'  three  or 
four,  a  little  of  the  dressing;  bake  till  boiling  hot  through. 
Serve  hot  with  rolls  for  one  course.  Or  you  can  line 
plain  pattie  pans  with  nice  pie  crust  (or  paff  paste), 
filling  with  the  same  and  cover  with  a  top  crust. 
Bake  the  same  way.  The  first  are  delicious.  Will 
bake  in  twenty-five  minutes. 


The  Qucoi  Cook  Book  93 


Scalloped  Oysters. 

For  two  quarts  of  oysters  have  two  cups  of  fine 
rolled  cracker.  Boil  and  skim  the  broth.  Sprinkle 
the  bottom  of  dish  with  cracker  then  a  thick  layer  of 
oysters.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter, 
then  sprinkle  cracker  not  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick; 
then  sprinkle  with  the  scalded  broth  enough  to  moisten 
the  cracker,  remembering  the  o3^sters  will  moisten 
some  when  heated;  then  another  layer  of  oysters,  and 
so  on,  till  the  dish  is  full — having  the  crackers  on  top, 
and  sprinkle  the  top  with  one-third  of  a  cup  of  milk. 
It  will  take  one  cup  of  the  broth  and  two  heaping 
tablespoons  of  butter. 

Raw  Oysters. 

There  are  now  regular  oyster  plates  to  serve  six 
oysters  on,  but  if  you  have  none,  you  can  get  six  oys- 
ters to  each  person  in  shells;  wash  and  wipe  nicely, 
open  them,  leaving  the  oysters  on  the  under  shell. 
Put  six  on  a  plate  with  one-fourth  of  a  lemon  in  the 
center,  or  you  can  put  them  on  a  tea-plate.  Each 
one  will  season  for  himself. 

Drawn  Butter. 

One  pint  of  milk  boiled,  braid  together  two  table- 
spoons of  flour,  four  of  butter  and  stir  in  milk;  season 
with  white  pepper  and  salt;  boil  five  minutes,  stirring 
all  the  time,  when  cool  add  two  well  beaten  eggs. 
This  is  really  the  foundation  for  all  fish  and  chicken 
sauces,  or  lobster,  by  adding  onion  juice  or  lemon, 
celery  juice,  vinegar,  mushrooms  or  capers,  you  have 
all  kind  of  sauces. 


94  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

HOLLAXDAISE  SaUCE. 

Measure  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  cream,  add  the 
yolks  of  two  raw  unbeaten  eggs.  When  nearly  ready 
to  serve,  add  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  the  juice 
of  one  lemon,  slowly  beating  till  it  thickens  like  soft 
custard  cooking  in  double  boiler. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce. 

Yolks  of  3  raw  eggs  i  tablespoon  sugar 

I  teaspoon  mustard  i  pint  olive  oil 

Yi^  cup  vinegar  i  cup  whipped  cream 

A  pinch  of  cayenne  i  teaspoon  salt 

Juice  of  half  a  lemon 
Beat  the  yolks  and  dry  ingredients  until  they  are 
very  light  and  thick  (I  always  find  better  success  to 
beat  eggs  with  a  knife  on  a  flat  plate)  set  the' eggs 
where  they  will  be  cold  before  breaking;  add  a  few 
drops  of  oil  at  a  time  until  the  dressing  becomes  very 
thick  and  rather  hard,  when  the  oil  can  be  added  more 
rapidly;  when  it  gets  so  that  it  stirs  hard,  add  a  little 
vinegar;  when  the  last  of  the  oil  and  vinegar  has  been 
added  it  should  be  very  thick;  now  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  whipped  cream,  and  place  on  ice  for  a  few 
hours,  or  in  a  cold  place.  The  cream  may  be  omitted 
without  injury.  To  set  this  on  ice  during  the  beating 
is  better. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing. 

3   raw  eggs  3  tablespoon  sugar 

I   tablespoon  olive  oil  i   teaspoon  mustard 

or  butter  i    cup  milk 

I    cup  vinegar  i    even  teaspoon  salt 

Stir  oil,  salt,  mustard  and  sugar  in  a  dish  until  per- 
fectly smooth;  add  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  beat  to- 


TJic  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book  95 

gether,  then  the  vinegar  and  finally  the  milk.  Place 
in  double  boiler  and  stir  from  eiglit  to  ten  minutes, 
keeping  the  water  boiling,  till  it    thickens  like  cream. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  No.  i. 

I  give  this  recipe  to  show  how  nnich  a  J^Iayonnaise 
depends  upon  the  right  mixing. 

2  yolks  raw  eggs  5^    pint  good    olive    oil   or 

^   teaspoon  of  mustard  butter 

I   teaspoon     of     lemon     A  pinch  of  cayenne 
juice  or  vinegar  )4  teaspoon  salt 

Place  the  oil  and  eggs  on  ice  if  you  have  it,  if  not, 
in  the  coldest  place,  for  an  hour.  Beat  your  eggs  well 
with  a  knife,  then  stir  in  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard; 
vv'ork  these  well  together,  and  then  add  drop  by  drop 
the  oil.  Stir  rapidly  and  steadily  while  adding  the  oil, 
always  stirring  the  same  way.  After  adding  one-half 
the  oil  (or  butter)  alternate  occasionally  with  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  The  more  oil  you 
use  the  thicker  the  dressing.  If  it  becomes  too  thick, 
add  a  little  more  vinegar.  More  or  less  oil  may  be 
added  according  to  the  quantity  of  dressing  desired. 
With  care  a  quart  bottle  of  oil  may  be  stirred  into  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  alternating  with  the  vinegar,  after 
adding  the  first  gill  of  oil.  In  case  the  dressing  should 
curdle,  that  is,  the  oil  and  ^gg  separate,  which  makes 
the  dressing  oily  and  liquid,  take  at  once  two  new- 
eggs  on  another  plate,  after  beating  well,  add  by  tea- 
spoonfuls  the  curdled  mayonnaise,  stirring  rapidly  and 
steadily  as  before,  and  then  finish  by  adding  more  oil 
as  directed.  This  dressing  if  covered  tightly  in  a  glass 
jar,  will  keep  in  a  cold  place  three  or  four  days.  You 
can  add  whipped  cream  as  you  use  it,  or  more  vine- 
gar. 


g6  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

Salad  Dressing  Without  Oil  No.    i. 

1  half  pint  milk  i  tablespoon  butter 
Yolks  3  ej^f^^s                              i  teaspoon  salt 

2  even    tablespoons   corn     2  tablespoon  vinegar 
starch  i  salt  spoon  white  pepper 
Put  the   milk  on  to  boil,    moisten  the   corn  starch 

with  cold  milk  and  stir  it  in  boiling  milk  till  it  thick- 
ens and  is  cooked  with  the  salt.  Then  add  the 
beaten  yolks,  pepper,  butter  and  vinegar.  Cook  one 
minute  and  let  cool. 

Cream  Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  2    tablespoons  vinegar 

eggs  Yi  pint  thick  cream 

1  tablespoon  softened  Yolk  of  i  raw  &gg 
butter  3<(  teaspoon  white  pepper 

Yz  teaspoon  salt 
Mash  the  hard  boiled  eggs  or  yolks  until  fine,  then 
add  the  raw  yolks  and  work  to  a  perfectly  smooth 
paste;  then  add  the  melted  butter,  then  by  degrees 
the  cream,  working  and  stirring  all  the  while,  now 
add  the  vinegar,  mix  well,  and  it  is  finished.     Keep  cold. 

Lobster  Salad  No.    i. 

2  lobsters  2  heads  lettuce 

Yi  pint  mayonnaise 
Prepare,  cook  and  dress  two  lobsters  (weighing 
four  or  five  pounds)  as  directed  (see  lobster).  Cut  the 
meat  into  dice  size  with  a  silver  knife,  put  it  in  a  cold 
place  till  wanted.  Make  the  mayonnaise.  Clean  the 
two  tail  shells  and  one  back  in  cold  water,  and  with 
scissors  remove  the  thin  shell  from  the  under  side  of 
tail.     Wash    and   dry  the   lettuce   leaves;    put    them 


The  Ouccji  Cook  Book  ()y 

around  the  salad  dish  in  two  or  three  layers.  Join  the 
shells  together  in  the  form  of  a  boat,  the  body  shell 
in  the  center;  put  them  in  the  salad  dish.  Mix  the 
mayonnaise  and  lobster  lightly  together,  place  it  in 
this  boat.  If  there  is  any  coral  wash  it  fine  and 
sprinkle  it  over  the  top.  Garnish  with  a  chain  of  the 
whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  into  slices  and  lapped  or 
linked  together. 

Lobster  Salad  No.  2. 

Cut  up  and  season  the  lobster  the  same  as  chicken; 
break  the  leaves  from  a  head  of  lettuce,  w^ash  them 
well  and  singly;  put  them  in  a  pan  of  ice  water  for 
about  ten  minutes,  then  shake  the  water  off;  place  in 
ice  chest  till  time  of  serving;  when  ready  to  serve  put 
two  or  three  leaves  together  in  the  form  of  a  shell,  and 
arrange  these  shells  on  a  flat  dish;  mix  half  of  the 
mayonnaise  dressing  with  the  lobster;  put  a  teaspoonful 
of  this  in  each  shell  of  leaves;  finish  with  a  teaspoon 
of  dressing  on  top;  this  is  an  inviting  dish. 

A  Plain  Dressing. 

2  cups  vinegar  i  even  teaspoon  salt 

3  raw  eggs  yi   cup  cream  or  milk 

y^  teaspoon  dry  mustard  A  sprinkle  of  white  pepper 
]4.  cup  butter 
Stir  into  your  milk  the  well  beaten  eggs,  add  the 
seasoning,  stir  in  the  softened  butter,  beating  thor- 
oughly. Then  in  this  pour  the  vinegar  boiling  hot 
(do  not  heat  it  in  tin),  but  cook  it  all  in  a  double  gran- 
ite boiler,  stirring  continually  and  briskly  so  it  will  not 
curdle.  Return  all  to  the  granite  pan,  put  over  the  fire 
and  keep  stirring  till  it  boils  lively  for  one  minute,  then 
remove  to  a  cool  place,  then  place  on  ice  to  stiffen;  put 


98  TJic  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book 

all  these  inj^redients  gradually  together;  add  sugar  if 
you  like.  Plain  lettuce  and  pealed  sliced  tomatoes 
with  a  liberal  covering  of  mayonnaise  sauce,  is  liked  by 
many,  or  simply  with  sugar  and  vinegar  on. 

Crab  Salad,  Fish  or  Shrimps. 

This  is  made  by  simply  boiling  i  dozen  crabs  thirty 
minutes,  when  cold  pick  out  the  meat  and  when  ready 
to  serve  mix  the  crabs  with  the  mayonnaise  the  same 
as  lobsters.  Fish  or  shrimps  are  used  in  the  same  way 
after  being  dressed  and  cooked.  One  can  double  any 
of  these  recipes,  or  make  only  half  of  it  as  they  need, 
or  use  butter  in  place  of  olive  oil.  It  is  very  uncertain 
whether  you  can  obtain  pure  oil  in  small  towns  or  not, 
as  there  is  such  a  small  demand  it  does  not  pay  the 
grocerymen  to  keep  it.  Some  do  not  think  it  as  relish- 
able  as  butter  nor  as  digestible.  The  experience  of  one 
lady  was,  when  she  had  a  table  of  ten  guests,  she  had 
mayonnaise  dressing  on  the  chicken  salad  made  with 
pure  olive  oil.  There  were  but  three  dishes  that  were 
much  more  than  tasted  of.  Another  time  she  had 
a  company  of  about  twenty-five;  the  mayonnaise  was 
made  of  sweet  butter  for  chicken  salad,  and  the  salad 
dishes  were  empty.  Both  companies  were  well  ac- 
quainted with  salads. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  No.   2.  (In  bottle) 

Yolks  of  4  raw  eggs  2  even  teaspoons  salt 

I  quart  bottle  salad  oil         2  even   teaspoons   mustard 

8  tablespoons  vinegar  i  quart  cream 

These  ingredients  are  mixed  the  same  way  as  may- 
onnaise No.  I.  Mixing  the  eggs  and  oil  or  butter  first, 
then  add  the  seasoning.  Then  add  by  degrees  the 
quart  of  cream  and  bottle  air  tight  for  use.      If  well 


TJic  Quccii  Cook  Book  99 

made,  this  will  keep  for  six  months.    If  one  has  occa- 
sion to  use  this   frequently,  it  is  well  to  have  it   on 

hand. 

Sauce  Tartare. 

I  teaspoon  mustard  12  drops  onion  juice 

Yz  salt  spoon  pepper  ^  cup  butter 

Yolks  2  raw  eggs  i  tablespoon  chopped  pars- 

6  tablespoons  vinegar  ley 

I  salt  spoon  salt 
Mix  as  directed  in  mayonnaise. 

Salad  Dressing  without  Oil  No.    2. 

4  raw  eggs  i  cup  butter 

I  Yz  pints  vinegar  i  cup  cream 

Y2  cup  sugar  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  even  teaspoon  mustard  i  even  salt  spoon  red  pepper 
Stir  all  together  as  directed  in  ma}onnaise  except 
the  vinegar,  beating  it  all  the  time,  place  it  in  double 
boiler  till  it  boils;  then  remove  and  beat  in  slowl}'  the 
vinegar.  This  will  keep  for  weeks,  corked  tight,  in 
cool  place. 

Fruit  Salad. 

6  oranges  ^   pineapple 

6  bananas  ^  cocoanut 

Cut  and  slice  the  oranges  (after  peeling  them)  across 
the  grain,  leaving  the  core  out,  peel  and  slice  the  ba- 
nanas in  rounds  in  a  separate  dish.  Peel  and  dig  out 
the  eyes  of  the  pineapple  and  then  grate  it.  Take 
the  dish  that  you  are  to  serve  it  in,  and  lay  in  alter- 
nate layers  of  fruit  and  sugar,  till  all  are  in,  then  on  the 
top  pile  fresh  grated  cocoanut.  This  can  be  prepared 
two  or  more  hours  before  you  wish  to  use  it. 


lOO  The  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book 


Chicken  Sandwiches. 


Sandwiches  of  all  kinds  are  made  by  spreading  two 
slices  of  bread  with  butter  and  placing  them  together 
with  meat  between  them.  Bread  should  be  twenty- 
four  hours  old,  must  be  moist  and  light;  cut  quite 
thin  slices  with  a  very  sharp  knife;  spread  them  thinl}' 
with  nice  fresh  butter,  then  with  your  hashed  or 
sliced  meat.  After  the  chicken  is  cooked,  chop  it  fine, 
when  cold,  to  almost  a  paste,  then  moisten  this  suf- 
ficiently so  it  will  spread  easily,  with  softened  butter, 
a  little  cream,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  mustard  if  you 
like,  but  it  must  be  very  little.  Spread  and  put  two 
slices  together  but  do  not  press  much;  when  ready  to 
serve  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  diamond,  oblong,  etc. 
Cover  with  damp  napkin  till  ready  to  use. 

Veal  Sandwiches. 

Chop  the  nice,  small  pieces  that  are  left  from  a  veal 
roast,  and  moisten  with  the  veal  grav3^ 

Lamb  Sandwiches. 

Are  made  the  same  way  as  veal,  moistened  with  the 
gravy  and  seasoned  to  taste.  The  meats  to  all,  must 
be  perfectly  smooth  and  spread  evenly. 

Tongue  Sandwiches. 

Boil  the  tongue  the  day  before  you  wish  to  use  it, 
let  it  cool  in  its  own  liquor,  take  out,  peel.  Ne.xt  day 
slice,  chop  fine,  add  enough  sweet  cream,  softened 
butter,  and  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  or  mustard. 
The  tongue  should  have  been  in  brine  three  or  more 
weeks.  A  fresh  tongue  has  no  relish.  It  should  be  a 
beef's  tongue. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  lOi 


Ham  Sandwiches. 

To  a  coffee  cup  of  lean  ham  finely  chopped,  add 
three  tablespoons  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  one  beaten 
^gg,  season  as  needed  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  very 
little  mustard.  Just  let  it  get  boiling  hot,  then  per- 
fectly cold  before  spreading  your  buttered  bread. 
Another  way  is  to  mix  the  ham  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing to  a  soft  paste,  and  spread  between  your  buttered 
thin  slices  of  bread.  Sardines,  tongue,  chicken,  or 
lobster,  may  be  n:ixed  this  way  in  place  of  ham. 

Chicken  Salad  No.  2. 

Boil  two  chickens  tender,  salted  as  for  table,  take 
■out  skin  and  bone  and  all  discoloring.  Cut  in  strips, 
and  then  in  bits  the  size  of  large  peas;  put  chicken  and 
celery  on  ice.  For  dressing;  the  }olks  of  four  fresh 
eggs,  with  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs.  Rub 
these  smoothly.  A  good  measure  of  butter  or  oil  is  a 
tablespoon  to  each  yolk  of  fresh  o.g'g.  All  the  art  con- 
sists in  introducing  the  butter  or  oil  and  vinegar  by 
degrees.  It  takes  time  to  make  a  good  salad.  When 
the  oil  is  well  mixed  put  in  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  one 
small  even  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  two  tablespoons 
of  vinegar.  When  ready  to  serve  mix  celery  and  chicken 
well,  then  with  a  silver  fork  stir  in  the  dressing,  mix- 
ing thoroughly.  This  salad  to  be  crisp  must  be  made 
the  day  it  is  used.  The  best  salad  for  health  is  simply 
crisp  lettuce  with  sugar  and  vinegar  on  it.  These 
mixtures  do  for  a  treat. 

Cabbage    Dressing. 

This  is  very  nice  when  one  can  not  obtain  celer}'  for 
a  dressing  for  a  chicken  salad,  made  in  the  same  way 


102  The  Qiiccn  Cook  Book 

as  the  chicken  salad  on  page  loi,  substituting  the  cab- 
bage for  celery,  shave  it  very  fine  and  chop  it  a  little. 

Egg    Salad. 

Boil  six  eggs  hard;  chop  the  whites  fine,  and  rub 
the  yolks  smooth  with  a  silver  spoon.  Sprinkle  in  a 
little  salt,  pepper  and  chopped  celery.  Mi.x  in  mayon- 
naise dressing,  put  this  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  cup  of 
chopped  chicken  or  of  ham  mixed  in  it,  or  use  it  for  a 
lettuce  salad. 

Cream   Dressing. 

Five  eggs  beaten  separately;  two  teaspoons  of  mixed 
mustard,  butter  the  size  of  an  &^g,  two  teaspoons  of 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  red  pepper,  three  tablespoons 
of  the  finest  table  oil,  one  pint  of  thick  cream.  Scald  the 
cream,  stir  in  the  yolks  and  continue  to  stir  until  it  be- 
gins to  thicken,  then  add  the  seasoning  and  two  or 
three  teaspoons  of  vinegar,  then  cool  and  add  the 
beaten  whites.     Stir  in  oil  when  cold. 


EGGS. 


Eggs  are  almost  invaluable,  particularly  in  the  spring 
of  the  year,  when  we  can  obtain  them  so  fresh  and 
plentiful.  Baron  Liebig  says:  "  There  is  more  nutri- 
ment in  an  &gg  than  in  anything  of  equal  bulk  that 
exists  in  nature,  or  that  chemistry  can  produce."  To 
prove  whether  eggs  are  good  or  bad,  place  a  few  at  a 
time  in  a  deep  dish  of  cold  water.  The  fresher  the 
egg  the  sooner  it  will  fall  to  the  bottom  on  its  side;  if 
it  falls  on  the  end  reject  it;  if  it  swims,  it  is  bad  thor- 
oughly. To  preserve  eggs  for  winter  use,  after  testing 
them,  put  in  the  bottom  of  a  one  or  two  gallon  wooden 


TJic  Qiicoi  Cook  Book  103 

tub  or  keg  with  a  flat  cover,  so  they  can  stand  on 
either  end  when  you  turn  the  vessel  once  a  week,  so 
as  to  keep  the  yolks  from  settling.  The  time  to  pack 
is  the  latest  fall  eggs  you  can  obtain,  packing  them  as 
fast  as  you  can  obtain  them.  You  make  more  sure  of 
keeping  them  if  you  stop  the  pores  of  the  shell  by 
dipping  the  eggs  in  a  thin  solution  of  gum  Arabic  and 
let  dry.  I  knew  of  one  lady  that  kept  them  from  the 
first  of  November  to  the  second  week  in  April,  simply 
packing  in  salt.  It  was  a  very  cold  winter  and  kept 
them  in  the  cellar.  Keep  cool  and  be  sure  they  are 
all  fresh  eggs.  An  Qgg  six  weeks  old  will  not  hatch.  If 
you  would  like  your  hens  to  lay  in  winter,  save  all  the 
meat  bones,  dry  them,  and  have  them  pulverized  in 
some  way  and  mix  a  little  in  their  food;  as  much  as 
you  think  they  would  eat  of  gravel  and  sand  in  sum- 
mer.     Give  them  bones  dried  to  peck  at. 

Hard  boiled  eggs  should  be  put  directly  on  taking 
out  into  a  dish  of  cold  water  for  a  minute  or  so,  to  pro- 
tect the  outside  of  yolks  from  turning  dark. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

Dip  the  eggs  first  in  cold  water  to  prevent  their 
cracking.  Then  put  them  in  water  simmering  hot  and 
let  boil  slowly  three  and  a  half  minutes.  This  just 
cooks  the  whites  and  heats  the  yolks  hot.  Another. 
Place  the  eggs  in  boiling  hot  water,  move  the  dish  to 
the  back  of  the  range,  cover  closely  and  let  stand  ten 
minutes.  Tliis  causes  the  white  to  be  of  creamy  con- 
sistency, and  the  yolk  not  hard  and  dry.  For  hard 
boiled  eggs  boil  eight  minutes — some  like  them  fifteen 
minutes. 


104  TJic  Queen  Cook  Dock 

Poached  Eggs. 

Butter  the  bottom  of  dish  that  )'ou  poac'.i  them  in, 
so  they  will  not  stick  and  break  when  you  take  them 
up;  put  in  two  inches  boiling  hot  water.  The  dish  or 
spider  must  be  flat-bottomed;  lay  in  muffin  rings, 
break  one  egg  at  a  time  in  a  saucer,  put  one  in  each 
ring  (no  salt,  as  it  hardens  the  white);  do  not  have  the 
water  boil,  but  only  simmer;  with  a  spoon  dip  the 
water  over  each  egg;  be  careful  not  to  break  the  yolks; 
as  soon  as  the  whites  look  like  a  thick  veil  over  the 
yolk  they  are  done;  they  will  cook  in  from  three  to 
four  minutes.  Take  a  half  slice  of  toast,  sprinkle 
salted  hot  water  on  it  with  a  spoon  and  butter  it  as 
for  eating,  lay  one  ^^g  on  each  piece  of  toast,  salt  and 
pepper  and  lay  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  center  of  each 
egg.  This  can  all  be  done  while  the  family  are  get- 
ting seated  at  table,  as  their  relish  depends  much  upon 
their  freshness.  There  are  pans  made  out  of  heav}' 
tin  now  on  purpose  for  poaching  eggs,  which  hold  from 
two  to  six  or  more  eggs,  but  the  bottom  cooks  harder 
than  it  does  in  spider. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

For  four  persons  take  five  eggs,  break  them  in  a 
deep  earthen  pie-plate,  half  beat  them,  then  add  half 
a  cup  of  cream  if  you  have  it,  if  not,  milk  and  salt, 
stir  a  little,  taste  to  see  if  salt  enough;  before  this 
place  spider  on  stove  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  large  hickory  nut,  to  get  just  sissing  hot,  pour  in  the 
eggs  and  scrape  one  way  with  large  spoon  constantly 
(do  not  stir  round  and  round)  cooking  gently  and 
evenly;  when  it  is  as  delicate  as  a  boiled  custard,  take 
it  off  quickly  and  pour  into  a  hot  dish.      If  }-ou  do  not 


Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book  105 

beat  the  eggs  too  much,  it  will  be  in  stripes  of  mingled 
white  and  )ellow,  but  we  like  them  best  well  beaten. 
Turn  them  out  before  you  think  them  quite  done,  they 
will  cook  more;  a  good  sprinkling  of  white  pepper  on 
top.      They  will  cook  in  three  minutes  or  less. 

Omelet. 

Three  eggs  beaten  slightly  together,  two  even  tea- 
spoons of  flour,  two-thirds  cup  of  cream,  or  milk  and 
salt,  stir  till  well  mixed,  place  in  hot  buttered  spider, 
when  browned  turn  one-half  on  the  other  half  with 
two  knives. 

Omelet. 

If  you  prefer  a  dry  fluffy  omelet  to  a  moist  flak}^ 
one,  beat  the  white  and  yolk  of  the  eggs  separate.  If 
not,  together  slightly,  add  a  tablespoon  of  cream  for 
each  &g'g  and  salt.  Have  a  flat  spider  hot  and  well 
buttered,  pour  in  the  omelet,  brown  slightl}'  on  the 
bottom  ha\'ing  the  top  soft,  roll  one-half  over  the 
other  half  deftly  and  serve  in  hot  covered  dish.  Some 
set  it  in  ov6n  on  top  of  grate  to  brown  instead  of  doub- 
ling, but  it  is  not  so  moist. 

Eggs,  Point  Shirley  Style. 

Separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs.  Beat 
the  yolks  two  minutes;  add  three  tablespoons  of  cream, 
one-half  even  teaspoon  salt,  beat  a  little  more.  Melt 
half  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  hot  spider,  pour  in  the 
yolks,  w^hen  they  thicken  slightly  pour  the  whites  in 
without  beating.  Let  them  be  until  they  look  nearly 
like  the  white  of  a  boiled  egg,  then  gently  mix  them 
with  a  silver  fork.  Serve  in  hot  dish  or  if  you  like  on 
buttered  toast.     Chicken  or  ham  omelet  is  made  by 


io6  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

placing  cither  of  them  hashed  and  seasoned  over  the 
omelet  before  turning  it  over. 

Bob  the  Sea  Cook's  Omelet. 

A  real  French  omelet  is  a  natural  dish.  It  don't 
want  all  the  fixing  most  cooking  folks  put  on  her. 
One  would  think  by  reading  the  books  that  it  was  as 
big  a  thing  to  do  as  a  suffer.  Most  books  tell  you 
to  beat  up  3'our  whites  till  they  stand,  but  it  ain't 
right.  A  Frenchman  don't  take  no  time  in  making 
an  omelet.  While  the  butter  is  in  the  pan  heating, 
he  gets  his  eggs  ready.  There  ain't  no  use  to  separ- 
ate whites  and  yellows.  Break  the  eggs  in  a  bowl, 
stir  them  so  whites  and  yellows  is  mixed  thoroughly 
and  that's  all.  Two  minutes  does  that.  Now  don't 
you  add  water,  nor  milk,  nor  nothing.  You  can  put 
cream  in,  but  then  tliat  don't  make  the  old  original 
Johnny  omelet,  but  something  else  that  ma}'  be  good 
enough  but  new  fangled.  If  you  have  any  parsley, 
chop  that  up  before  you  begin,  that  is,  if  you  want  a 
parsley  omelet;  the  parsley,  about  a  teaspoon  to  six 
eggs,  ought  to  be  as  fine  as  possible;  add  a  little  salt 
and  very  little  white  pepper  to  your  eggs  and  when 
your  butter  is  a  sizzing,  tilt  over  the  frying  pan  a  very 
little  and  pour  in  your  eggs.  It  don't  take  half  a 
minute  to  cook.  If  your  butter  is  hot  enough  a  min- 
ute will  do  it  all.  Don't  go  to  turn  your  omelet  with 
a  fork  but  sling  her.  She  ought  to  take  a  whole  turn 
in  the  air  and  fall  on  her  other  side.  But  anyhow,  if 
you  ain't  up  to  that  trick,  you  might  help  her  over 
with  a  spoon.  An  overcooked  omelet  is  just  a  dis- 
grace. It  ought  to  be  mellow  and  a  little  underdone 
in  the  middle.  Don't  you  never  go  to  give  people  as 
knows  what  an  omelet  is,  something  in  a  flat  sheet  as 
tough  as  a  canvas  and  call  it  an  omelet. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  107 


Eggs  a  la  Lavallette. 

Pour  into  a  flat  tin  dish  cream  to  the  depth  of  a 
quarter  of  an  inch;  bring  to  a  boil,  then  drop  in  the 
eggs  and  cook  until  the  whites  are  set.  Season  to 
taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish  or  take  carefully  out  and  pour  the  seasoned  cream 
over  the  eggs. 

Eggs  a  la  Cream. 

Boil  six  eggs  eight  minutes,  drop  in  cold  water  a 
minute;  remove  the  shells,  cut  in  halves;  slice  a  bit  off 
each  end  so  they  will  stand  on  end.  Mi.x  a  tablespoon 
of  butter  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour;  stir  it  into  a  pint 
of  boiling  milk,  stirring  constantly;  season  and  pour 
over  the  eggs. 

Egg  Gems. 

Two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  three  and  one-half 
cups  sifted  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder.      Bake  in  gem  pans. 

To  Fry  Egg  Plant. 

Always  choose  fat,  plump  ones,  they  are  much  bet- 
ter than  the  long  slim  ones.  Cut  in  slices  not  quite  a 
half  inch  and  peel  them.  Rub  a  little  salt  on  each 
side  and  pack  them  in  two  piles,  putting  the  largest  at 
the  bottom,  in  a  dish.  Place  a  plate  on  top,  upon 
which  put  a  laundry  iron  weight.  Fill  dish  with 
water;  let  stand  an  hour  and  then  throw  off  this 
water;  rinse  and  repeat  the  same  process  for  another 
hour.  This  is  to  take  out  that  unhealthy  bitter  taste. 
Rinse,  wipe  dry,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  rolled 


io8  Jic  Queen  Cook  Book 

cracker  or  in  batter,  and  fry  in  spider;  brown  on  both 
sides  in  half  butter  and  half  suet.  If  you  have  a 
fresh  plant,  not  wilted  by  being  picked  too  long  or  by 
drought,  they  are  very  line. 


VEGETABLES. 

All  vegetables  in  summer  should  be  freshly  gathered 
the  day  they  are  to  be  cooked.  Peas,  beans,  and 
asparagus,  if  laid  over  for  one  day  lose  their  own  pe- 
culiar sweetness  and  relish.  Soft  water  is  better  for 
all  vegetables  except  potatoes,  turnips  and  cabbage, 
these  three  should  be  put  in  just  as  the  water  comes 
to  a  boil.  Some  one  says  that  a  teaspoon  of  common 
salt  put  in  a  gallon  of  soft  water  hardens  it  at  once, 
and  a  half  teaspoon  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda  to  a  gal- 
lon of  hard  water  renders  it  soft.  Rainwater,  if  fresh 
and  pure;  gives  a  relish  to  sweet  corn  and  peas  that 
hard  water  does  not,  and  I  put  the  salt  in  when  it  is 
first  put  over.  When  any  vegetables  are  wilted  they 
should  soak  for  an  hour  or  two,  in  very  cold  water. 
Peas,  beans  and  lentils  are  the  most  nutritious  of  all 
vegetables  (lentils  are  raised  more  in  the  old  country), 
and  are  said  to  contain  as  much  carbon  (that  is  heat- 
giving)  as  wheat  and  nearly  twice  the  quantity  of  ni- 
trogen (for  muscle). 

Plain  Boiled  Potatoes. 

Never  boil  potatoes  with  their  skins  on.  They  con- 
tain three-fourths  water  and  nearly  one-fourth  starch, 
with  a  small  proportion  of  other  elem.ents,  thus  sup- 
plying what  is  lacking  in  lean  meat  and  other  ni- 
trogenous food.      When  the  sprouts  begin  to  appear  in 


TJic  Qiicoi  Cook  Book  109 

the  spring  they  must  be  rubbed  off  at  once,  as  they 
exhaust  the  most  nourishing  part  of  the  potatoes. 
Rub  them  off  three  times  and  they  will  cease  to  grow. 
Keep  them  in  cool  place.  I  presume  there  are  more 
potatoes  consumed  than  all  other  vegetables  put 
together  (excepting  grains).  Select  potatoes  of 
medium  size,  without  blemishes  and  of  a  yellowish 
white  color.  Those  that  grow  on  a  rich  heavy  soil 
are  most  nutritious.  To  boil  potatoes  wash  them 
clean,  then  pare  them  thin,  and  lay  them  in  cold 
water  till  ready  to  boil,  then  put  in  boiling  hot  water 
just  enough  to  cover  them,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then 
add  salt.  Boil  slowly  until  nearly  done,  then  put  in 
half  a  cup  of  cold  water,  to  render  the  potatoes  more 
mealy.  As  soon  as  tender  enough  to  admit  a  fork 
easily,  pour  off  the  water;  take  the  cover  off  and 
shake  the  potatoes  in  a  current  of  cold  air,  at  either 
the  door  or  window,  place  the  kettle  on  back  part  of 
the  stove,  and  cover  with  a  clean,  coarse  towel  until 
serving  time.  The  sooner  the  potatoes  are  served  the 
better.  This  is  for  whole  potatoes.  Or  cut  them  in 
quarters  after  shaking  them  and  put  on  a  half  cup  of 
cream,  a  little  butter,  salt,  and  let  come  to  a  scald, 
then  dish  and  sprinkle  with  pepper.  You  only  need 
half  as  much  cream  for  mashed  potatoes;  mash  and 
stir  with  a  fork  a  few  times.  Season  as  the  others, 
and  do  not  pack  them  in  the  dish  too  solid. 

Creamed  Potatoes. 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  slice  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick;  put  in  your  spider  with  salt  and  half  cup  of 
cream,  and  boil  it  fifteen  minutes,  chopping  it  a  little 
with  spoon  and  stirring;  boil  slowly  or  it  will  burn.  If 
one  has  no  cream,  take  twice  as  much  milk  and  boil 


I  TO  The  Quccti  Cook  Book 

it  slowly  with  the  potatoes;  till  it  creams.  It  will 
need  a  little  more  butter.  Dish  and  sprinkle  with 
pepper,  serve  hot. 

Baked  Potatoes. 

Select  medium  sized  potatoes  wash  and  rinse  and 
clean  and  place  in  very  hot  oven  for  forty  or  more 
minutes;  when  done  crack  each  one  in  your  hand, 
with  a  towel  over  it.  If  baked  crisp  they  will  snap 
and  be  mealy  as  this  process  lets  off  the  steam. 

Plain  P'ried  Potatoes. 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  one-fourth  of  an  inch 
thick,  put  in  spider  a  bit  of  butter  and  lard;  salt  them, 
lay  them  in  the  hot  spider  brown  lightly  and  slowly  on 
both  sides.      Pepper. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Prepare  the  potatoes  the  same  as  for  boiled 
potatoes,  as  soon  as  a  fork  will  go  through  them 
easily,  drain  off  the  water,  dry  them  by  setting  kettle 
on  top  of  stove,  put  in  salt  and  butter,  according  to 
quantity,  mash  with  a  wire  masher,  then  stir  in  a 
little  cream  or  milk  as  you  like  with  a  fork.  Dish  and 
smooth  over  the  top.  Some  brown  the  top  in  oven. 
There  is  no  vegetable  so  much  used  as  the  potato, 
yet  how  few  know  how  to  cook  them  properly. 
Most  people  think  they  certainly  know  how  to  boil  a 
potato.  Some  will  throw  them  in  cold  water  just 
when  it  happens  to  be  convenient,  whether  it  lacks 
one  hour  or  two  before  meal  time,  when  they  should 
be  put  in  just  as  the  water  begins  to  boil  and  taken 
off  as  soon  as  a  fork  can  easily  pierce  them.     A  com- 


TJic  Queen  Cooh  Book  1 1 1 

mon  sized  potato  will  boil  in  thirty  minutes.  We  should 
not  allow  our  daughters  to  lose  sight  of  the  fact,  that 
to  be  able  to  boil  an  Irish  potato  well,  is  an  accom- 
plishment of  more  importance  to  the  human  race, 
than  to  know  the  science  of  banging  the  hair,  and  will 
go  farther  to  beautify  the  human  face. 

Curled  Potatoes. 

Take  freshly  mashed  potatoes  and  press  through  a 
colander  into  your  table  dish.  Brown  the  top  in 
oven.     Season  just  right  first. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. 

Wash  and  rinse  your  potatoes,  peel  them,  boil 
nearly  done,  and  slice  thin;  butter  the  pudding  dish 
or  a  good  basin,  put  in  a  la3^er  of  potatoes,  then  a 
seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter,  fill  with 
potatoes,  r.emembering  to  season  every  la3'er;  cover  the 
top  with  cracker  crumbs,  then  heat  boiling  hot,  one 
cup  oi  cream  and  one  cup  of  milk  and  sprinkle  it 
over  till  it  is  half  full  or  over.  Cover  with  a  go^d 
plate  that  fits,  and  bake  in  the  oven  one  hour  and  a 
quarter  for  two  quarts.  Some  like  chopped  parsley 
in,  and  a  thin  layer  of  rolled  cracker  between  each 
layer  of  potatoes.  Take  off  the  plate  fifteen  minutes 
before  they  are  done,  to  brown  the  top.  Others 
sprinkle  a  little  flour  between  each  la)'er;  or  make  a 
nice  drawn  butter  of  your  cream  and  milk,  with  one 
tablespoon  of  flour  no  thicker  than  cream  and  put  it 
between  each  layer  of  potatoes.  For  one  quart  or 
less  bake  thirty  minutes,  having  the  oven  just  at  boil- 
ing paint.  Take  off  the  plate  and  brown  the  top 
whin  nsarly  done.  These  are  very  nice  for  supper, 
and  if  thsre  are  some   left  over,  they  can  be  used  for 


I  I  2  The   Omen  Cook  Book 

breakfast,  by  adding  a  little  cream  to  moisten  them 
and  heat  hot  in  the  oven.  If  raw  potatoes  bake  one 
hour  or  more. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. 

Select  long  potatoes.  When  peeled  and  rinsed  put 
in  cold  water  for  one  hour,  wipe  dry,  cut  lengthwise 
into  six  or  eight  pieces,  place  on  a  dry  clean  cloth  and 
clap  them  dry;  have  ready  a  kettle  of  hot  lard,  or  half 
suet  and  lard,  fill  a  skimmer  with  the  potatoes  and 
drop  into  the  hot  fat.  The  fat  must  be  hot  or  they 
will  not  be  good,  but  care  must  be  taken  not  to  have 
your  lard  spatter  over,  as  you  put  them  in  and  so  set 
lire  to  the  spider;  when  ready  to  put  the  potatoes  in, 
set  the  spider  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  for  a  min- 
ute or  two  to  avoid  this.  They  generally  cook  in  ten 
minutes;  try  with  a  fork,  skim  out.  and  lay  on  drab 
paper  and  sorinkle  salt  on  both  sides,  and  serve  hot. 

Parisienne  Potatoes. 

JPeel  large  potatoes  and  throw  into  cold  water  for 
half  an  hour,  dry  with  a  cloth,  and  with  a  vegetable 
scoop  cut  out  tiny  balls,  dry  with  a  cloth  again  and 
cook  in  hot  suet  cooked  through  and  of  a  light 
brown;  the  fat  must  be  very  hot,  then  they  will  be  dry 
and  mealy.  Skim  out  on  clean  drab  paper  and 
sprinkle  with  salt. 

Potatoes  a  la  Royal, 

Allow  one  pint  of  hot  boiled  potatoes,  half  cup  of 
cream,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  and  yolk  of  one  and  salt;  mash  the  potatoes  fine, 
then  beat  light  with  a  fork.  Gradually  add  the  butter 
and  cream,  and  beaten  o.^'g  to  a  froth,  mix   well,  turn 


Tfic  Queen  Cook  J 'oof:  \  1 3 

into  a  dish  that  can  be  set  on  the  table,  W(;ll  buttered, 
smooth  the  top  or  pile  it  in  a  rocky  form  and  brush 
over  with  the  yolk.      Set  in  hot  oven  till  brown. 

Potato  Puffs. 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes         2  eggs  beaten  separate 
2  tablespoons  butter  ^  cup  cream 

Salt  and  pepper 
I\Iake  in  puffs  large  enough  for  each  person;  bake  in 
oven  till  brown. 

Brown  Potatoes  with  Roast  Beef. 

Peel  and  put  in  cold  salt  v/ater  for  an  hour,  then 
put  into  boiling  water  (sctlt  it)  and  cook  fifteen 
minutes;  take  out  and  drain,  then  put  in  dripping-pan 
with  the  roast  beef  on  the  frame.  When  you  baste 
the  meat  every  ten  minutes  throw  the  gravy  on  the 
potatoes  also. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 

Put  one  tablespoon ful  of  butter  in  your  spider,  slice 
one  good-sized  onion,  stir  and  cook  in  butter  till  done; 
add  one  tablespoon  of  parsle\^  chopped  fine  for  one 
pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  dice;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Fry  and  stir  gently  till  the  potatoes 
are  a  nice  light  brown.      Put  in  a  hot  covered  dish. 

Another  Lyonnaise  Potato. 

To  a  pint  of  thin  sliced  cold  boiled  potatoes  put  a 
chopped  onion  cooked  in  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one 
half  pint  of  milk,  with  pepper  and  salt;  cover  and 
stew  fifteen  minutes.  Wet  a  half  teaspoon  of  corn 
starch  in  cold  milk  and  stir  in  a  spoon  of  minced  pars- 
ley.     Can  add  more  milk  and  butter  if  liked. 


114  T^^^'^  Queen  Cook  Book 

New  Potatoes   a  la    Cream 

Wash  new  potatoes  and  scrape  off  the  skin;  put 
them  in  boihng  water,  a  Httle  salt;  as  soon  as  tender 
take  up  and  cut  into  four  pieces.  While  these  are 
boiling  put  some  new  milk  or  cream,  say  half  pint  for 
a  pint  of  potatoes,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small 
egg  and  salt.  Mix  an  even  tablespoon  of  flour  with 
cold  milk,  stir  into  cream,  boil  enough  to  cook  the 
flour  and  pour  over  the  potatoes. 

Small  Potatoes  Creamed  or  Hashed. 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes,  put  a  spoon  of  butter  in 
spider,  put  in  the  potatoes,  salt,  enough  sweet  milk 
and  cream  to  nearly  cover  them;  wet  a  spoon  of  flour 
with  cold  milk  and  stir  in.  Anything  warmed  over 
needs  enough  cooking  to  give  it  a  flavor,  that  merely 
being  warmed  can  not  give  it. 

Saratoga  Potatoes. 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  very  thin 
slices,  either  with  a  knife  or  a  slaw  cutter;  lay  them  in 
cold  water  for  a  time,  then  drain  them  in  a  dish,  and 
put  them  on  a  dry  cloth,  patting  the  top  with  another 
dry  cloth.  Have  in  your  spider  hot  fat  as  for  fried 
cakes.  When  ready  to  put  some  in  the  fat,  have  it 
boiling  hot  and  remove  it  to  back  of  stove  till  they  are 
in,  so  as  to  avoid  its  running  over.  Put  in  only  a  few 
at  a  time  or  they  will  stick  together.  Have  ready  a 
piece  of  cheese-cloth  thrown  over  a  colander,  when 
light  brown  skim  them  into  the  cloth  and  drain; 
sprinkle  salt  on  both  sides,  and  set  in  the  heater  till  all 
are  done;  going  through  the  same  process  till  all  are 
cooked.  Serve  hot.  What  is  left  can  be  heated  over 
the  next  day 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  1 1  5 

Potato  Croquettes. 

To  one  quart  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  add  one-half 
cup  of  hot  milk,  two  generous  tablespoons  of  butter, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  well  beaten  in.  Beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  stiff  and  stir  in.  Form  into  croquettes  (if 
you  wish  to  fry  them  in  spider  flatten  them,  if  in  hot 
fat,  do  not)  roll  them  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
then  in  cracker  crumbs,  lay  in  a  croquette  basket  and 
immerse  in  boiling  hot  fat  till  brown. 

Potato  Salad. 

One  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  dice,  tv/o 
hard  boiled  eggs  cut  fine,  one  teaspoon  of  finely  minced 
cold  onion  and  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley; 
mix  well  together.  For  dressing,  stir  into  three  table- 
spoons of  butter  gradually  three  tablespoons  of  vin- 
egar; one  saltspoon  salt,  and  half  spoon  pepper.  Mix 
well.      Keep  dressing  in  cold  place. 

Baked    Sweet    Potatoes. 

Lay  nicely  cleaned  medium  sized  potates  on  the  up- 
per grate,  in  a  hot  oven,  in  their  skins;  when  nearly 
baked,  take  a  towel  in  your  hand  and  crack  them; 
leave  them  in  five  minutes  longer  to  let  the  moisture 
evaporate.      Serve  hot  after  the  family  sits  down. 

Steamed  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Steam  them  in  a  steamer  with  skins  on;  do  not  let 
them  get  over  done.  Peel  them  quickly  with  a  white 
metal  or  silver  knife  or  fork.  Never  use  a  steel  one 
for  sweet  potatoes  as  it  turns  the  potato  black  where- 
ever  it  touches  it.  Sweet  potatoes  are  too  watery  to 
boil  in  water. 


Ii6  TJic  Ok  CO!  Cook  Book 


Fried  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Cold  steamed  potatoes  are  nice  for  breakfast  cut 
either  long  or  round,  salt  them,  and  fry  in  spider  in 
half  butter  and  half  lard  or  drippings.  A  little  brown 
on  both  sides. 

Cooked  Over  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Cut  cold  steamed  sweet  potatoes  in  dice  like  pieces 
or  bits;  to  one  pint  of  potato  put  two  tablespoons  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  fry  till  a  nice  brown,  or 
not  as  3'ou  like,  then  to  a  half  pint  of  beef  stock,  one 
even  tablespoon  of  flour  and  one  well  beaten  egg,  let 
boil  two  minutes. 

Sweet    Corn  Boiled. 

Husk  and  silk  the  corn,  put  the  ears  of  corn  in  a 
kettle,  in  cold  soft  water,  let  come  slowly  to  a  boil, 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Put  it  in  hot  covered  dish.  Set 
the  kettle  on  back  of  stove  and  keep  it  in  the  water 
till  ready  to  eat  it.  It  will  be  sweet  and  juic\'.  I  pre- 
fer no  salt  in  it,  but  put  salt  and  butter  on  as  I  eat  it. 
A  common  mistake  of  otherwise  good  cooks  is  to  boil 
corn  half  an  hour.  This  could  not  fail  to  make  it  hard 
and  indigestible.  Overcooking  brings  it  into  disre- 
pute as  a  vegetable,  v/hile  if  freshly  picked  and  cooked 
properly  it  is  delicate  and  healthful.  For  eating  at  the 
table,  some  score  each  row  of  corn  with  a  sharp  knife, 
then  butter  and  salt  it  and  eating  the  center  of  the 
grain,  leave  the  hull  on  the  cob,  it  is  for  some  more 
healthy. 

Succotash. 

Shell  one  pint  of  fresh  green  beans,  after  washing 
the   pods   clean.      (Never  wash  the   beans  after  shell- 


TJtc  Oitccii  Cook  Book  1 1 7 

ing.)  Boil  the  beans  till  tender  in  soft  water.  When 
half  done  add  the  salt.  Score  and  press  from  the  cob 
twice  as  much  corn  by  measure  as  there  are  beans. 
When  the  beans  are  well  cooked  with  hardly  enough 
water  to  cover  the  beans  then  set  the  kettle  off  the 
fire.  Add  to  the  corn  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  cream 
or  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  pour  this  slowl}'  on  the  beans;  when  hot  stir  in 
one  even  tablespoon  of  flour  to  make  the  consistency 
of  thin  cream.  Boil  it  five  minutes.  This  can  be 
made  in  winter  from  canned  corn  and  beans.  Canned 
corn  can  be  cooked  for  table  in  same  way. 

To  Dry  Corn. 

Husk  and  silk  it,  then  place  it  in  boiler  in  cold  rain 
water  (water  must  be  pure) ;  let  come  slowly  to  a  boil ; 
boil  five  minutes,  take  out  as  fast  as  you  can  in  a  large 
dish;  cut  it  while  hot,  but  not  too  close  to  get  the 
hulls,  picking  off  all  the  silk  you  see  (much  of  it  comes 
off  in  the  v^'ater);  then  run  your  fingers  through  it  and 
dip  your  fingers  in  a  bowl  of  water,  and  pick  it  all 
over  carefully  to  get  the  silk  all  out,  for  it  is  too  much 
like  a  hair  to  be  pleasant  in  the  mouth.  Then  spread 
on  the  drier  if  you  have  one.  I  dr}'  one  and  a  half 
bushels  at  a  time  on  mine  in  one-half  of  a  day  and 
evening.  It  takes  three  of  us  one-half  a  day  to  get 
such  a  quantity  ready  to  put  on  the  drier.  It  needs 
scraping  up  together  and  respreading  as  fast  as  it  dries, 
and  almost  constant  attention.  It  will  dry  in  si.\  or 
seven  hours.  If  3'ou  ha\'e  no  drier  \n\\.  it  on  plates 
and  platters  around  the  stove,  changing  and  turning 
often.  This  will  dry  in  eighteen  hours.  Put  it  in 
tight  bags  and  hang  in  a  dr}-  cool  place. 


1 1 8  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


To  Cook  Dried  Corn. 


One  cup  full  of  the  corn  will  be  sufficient  for  six  or 
more  persons.  Pat  cold  water  on  it,  and  tfie  hulls 
that  rise  on  top  pour  off,  then  put  on  cold  soft  or  rain 
water  about  one  pint  and  a  half,  all  it  will  soak  up, 
set  it  where  it  will  keep  quite  warm,  in  an  earthen 
dish  or  a  good  tin  basin.  It  will  soak  in  five  or  six 
hours.  Then  put  in  sweet  cream  and  milk,  butter, 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  flour.  Just  boil  long  enough 
to  cook  the  flour.  This  is  delicious  when  rightly  pro- 
portioned, according  to  quantity  of  corn.  The  sweet 
corn  must  be  of  the  best. 

Mrs.  Rorer's  way  of  drying  sweet  corn:  "Score  the 
corn  down  the  center  of  each  row  of  grains,  then  with 
the  back  of  the  knife  press  out  all  the  pulp,  leaving 
the  hull  on  the  cob."  Spread  this  pulp  raw  on  plates 
and  dr}-  around  stove.  It  will  brown  easily,  so  watch 
it  closel}-. 

Roast  Green  Corn. 

Mrs.  Herrick  says  that  "  corn  is  excellent  roasted 
in  this  way.  Select  tender  ears,  turn  the  husks  and 
remo\-e  the  silk,  then  re-cover  the  corn  with  the  husks. 
La}'  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  with  grate  under, 
turning  often."  I  should  think  in  a  hot  oven  it  would 
roast  in  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Mock  Oysters. 

Grate  six  good  sized  ears  of  sweet  corn;  rub  it 
through  a  hair-sieve  to  rid  it  of  the  hulls;  add  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  thick  cream,  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  two  of  fine  rolled  cracker,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  of  pepper.  Beat  this  all 
well  together;   have  a  lump  of  good  butter  about  the 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  119 

size  of  half  an  (t%g\  when  hot  on  griddle  drop  the  corn 
mixture  in  tablespoonfuls,  allowing  space  that  they  do 
not  run  together;  when  they  are  a  nice  brown  turn 
them  over  and  brown  the  other  side;  it  requires  about 
five  minutes  to  cook  them.  This  will  make  about  two 
dozen  oysters;  serve  them  hot.  They  can  be  cooked 
while  the  table  is  being  waited  on. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Prepare  one  dozen  ears  of  corn  the  same  as  for 
mock  oysters  and  put  it  in  fritter  batter  made  of  two 
eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Fry  in  hot  fat,  drop  in  by  spoonfuls  in  the  fat. 
So  soon  as  brov^n  on  both  sides  they  are  done.  Take 
out  with  a  wire  skimmer,  drain  on  good  plain  brown 
paper. 

Beets. 

Wash  the  beets  but  do  not  break  the  skin.  It  takes 
from  one  to  four  hours  to  boil,  according  to  age.  An 
old  or  wilted  beet  will  never  be  eatable.  When  ten- 
der put  them  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  quickly  rub 
off  the  skins  with  the  hand,  keeping  them  as  hot  as 
possible,  slice  them  round  and  put  butter,  salt,  pep- 
per and  hot  vinegar  on  them  and  set  in  the  heater. 
Be  sure  \oa  have  the  rich,  long,  blood  beet. 

Baked  Beets. 

It  is  not,  perhaps,  generally  known  that  common 
beets  baked  in  the  same  manner  as  potatoes  are  much 
sweeter  and  drier  than  when  boiled;  peel  them  and 
dish  them  up  the  same  as  boiled  beets. 


I20  TJic  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book 


Curing  Beets  tor  Winter  Use. 

Take  up  the  beets  before  freezing  time,  boil  tender, 
skin  and  slice  round,  put  them  in  glass  fruit  jars,  pack 
in  as  tight  as  you  can,  then  fill  jars  with  cold  cider 
vinegar  (this  is  done  to  know  how  much  vinegar  is 
needed),  pour  off  and  bring  vinegar  to  a  boil.  For 
each  jar  add  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  small  anjount 
of  ca}'enne  pepper,  a  little  salt,  pour  it  o\er  the  beeis 
hot;  then  screw  tight  as  you  would  fruit.  Take 
medium  sized  beets  and  good  blood  red.  This  is  a 
good  way  to  have  sweet  and  tender  pickled  beets  for 
winter  use. 

Boiled  Turnips. 

Wash  and  pare  the  turnips,  cut  into  quarters,  put 
into  boiling  water,  boil  till  tender,  say  thirty  minutes, 
pour  off  the  water  and  set  on  stove  to  dr}',  then  press 
out  all  the  water,  add  butter  and  salt,  mash  fine,  dish 
and  sprinkle  with  pepper.  They  are  drier  to  be 
steamed;  or  you  can  slice  and  fry  them  to  eat  with 
roast  duck.  Good  turnips  or  beets  are  seldom  found 
now-a-days. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Scald  them  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  them,  let 
stand  for  live  minutes,  pour  it  off,  peel  them,  cut  out 
the  hard  stem  end  and  hard  cores,  as  you  slice  them. 
Cook  them  in  a  granite  or  a  piorcelain  lined  sauce- 
pan, put  to  about  a  quart  of  tomatoes  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  (they  do  not  b^ar  much  salt) 
stew  thirty  minutes  or  inore  and  pour  on  to  one  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  rolled  crackers  in  dish. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  121 


To  Can  Tomatoes. 

Prepare  in  the  same  way  leaving  out  the  butter, 
pepper  and  rolled  cracker. 

Raw  Tomatoes. 

Scald  and  pour  off  the  water,  peel,  slice  them  into 
dish,  pour  off  the  juice,  salt  and  pepper  them,  let 
persons  put  on  sugar  and  vinegar  to  suit  them- 
selves, or  prepare  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Carrots  Stewed  and  Fried. 

Pare  and  boil  whole,  salt  the  water,  boil  till  tender, 
from  thirty  to  sixty  minutes,  then  slice  round,  put 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  or  a  cream  sauce,  or  slice  and 
brown  them  in  spider.  All  vegetables  must  be  taken 
up  the  minute  they  are  done. 

Boiled  Parsnips. 

Scrape  and  put  in  boiling  water,  add  salt,  boil  till 
tender,  say  from  thirty  to  fift}^  minutes;  drain  and  dry 
them,  then  slice,  put  on  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  or  a 
cream  sauce;  or,  take  the  boiled  parsnips  sliced  and 
brown  them,  after  seasoning,  or  mash  them  and  stir 
into  fritter  batter. 

Green   Peas. 

Peas  are  better  if  picked  and  shelled  just  Defore 
cooking.  Wash  the  pods  clean  before  shelling, 
as  washing  the  peas  takes  off  the  juices  which  we 
always  find  in  young  peas,  and  gives  them  their  de- 
licious flavor,  but  you  can  not  find  it  in  an  old  pea. 
Boil  in  cold  rain  water  for  about  thirty  minutes,  add 


122  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

salt.  When  tender  add  cream,  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per, a  very  little  flour,  according  to  quantity.  Every- 
thing depends  upon  the  seasoning  of  peas,  beans,  or 
oysters  or  anything  else  in  the  cooking  department. 

Lima   Beans. 

Green  beans  of  all  kinds  should  be  cooked  the  same 
as  green  peas,  also  string  beans  after  they  are  strung 
and  cut  in  half-inch  pieces,  being  careful  to  remove 
all  that  is  stringy.  All  dried  beans  are  dished  in  the 
same  way,  after  being  cooked  tender  in  rainwater,  add 
the  salt. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

Put  three  quarts  of  warm  soft  water  on  one  quart 
of  the  small  white  bean,  after  washing,  let  soak  over 
night  (this  to  soak  out  the  rank  oil  contained  in  the 
thick  skin)  turn  of^  this  water  and  rinse  them 
thoroughly.  Add  cold  water  and  boil  ten  minutes, 
pour  this  off  and  put  on  boiling  water  and  boil  till  half 
done,  then  put  in  about  one  pound  of  well  salted  pork 
until  half  cooked  to  season  the  beans,  if  they  are  not 
sufficiently  salt  add  more.  Have  a  teakettle  of  hot  soft 
water  on  stove  to  replenish  with.  (If  you  have  to  use 
hard  water  soften  it  with  a  little  soda.)  Take  out  the 
pork  and  boil  the  beans  until  they  can  be  easily 
mashed  between  the  thumb  and  finger;  then  put  the 
beans  into  a  deep  earthen  bean  pot,  and  the  salt  pork 
buried  in  the  beans  all  but  the  rind,  which  should  be 
gashed  one-half  inch  apart.  Some  like  one  tablespoon 
of  molasses  in  the  beans.  If  you  prefer  3'ou  can  leave 
out  the  pork  and  the  molasses,  and  stir  in  instead  two 
tablespoons  of  good  butter.  Put  on  cover  and  bake 
from  six  to  eight  hours,  taking  the  cover  off  the  last 
hour  to  brown  and   crisp   the   top   and   rind   of  pork. 


TJic  Omen  Cooh  Book  123 

Add  boiling  water  from  time  to  time,  as  it  may  need 
to  prevent  burning.  This  is  Boston  baked  beans. 
But  if  you  do  not  wish  to  bake  them  so  long  you  can 
bake  them  from  one  to  two  hours  in  a  tin  dish.     . 


Pickled  Beans. 

Wash  and  string  tender  green  beans,  put  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  add  salt  and  boil  till  tender, 
say  twenty-five  minutes.  When  done,  drain  in  a  col- 
ander and  let  stand  until  cold;  then  put  into  a  glass 
jar,  sprinkle  over  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  add  a  table- 
spoon chopped  horseradish  and  cover  with  good  vin- 
egar.     A  nice  relish. 

Asparagus  on  Toast. 

Wash  it  well,  tie  it  in  bundles  of  ten  or  fifteen  stalks, 
with  a  well-washed  cord,  and  cut  them  of  equal  lengths, 
from  three  to  four  inches  long,  boil  in  hot  water,  a 
little  salt;  when  it  first  comes  it  will  cook  in  fifteen 
minutes,  and  at  the  last  it  may  take  thirty.  Great 
care  should  be  taken  not  to  over-cook  it,  as  some  do. 
As  soon  as  tender,  pour  off  nearly  all  the  water,  and 
add  suf^cient  cream  and  milk,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
according  to  quantity,  to  season  and  make  sufficient 
gravy  to  put  on  toast  or  plain  bread  (one-half  slice  each) 
enough  for  the  number  of  persons.  Butter  the  toast 
or  bread  as  for  eating;  thicken  it  only  as  thick  as  thin 
cream.  This  is  nice  for  dinner  or  supper.  Do  not 
cut  off  the  cord  till  you  lay  it  on  the  toast,  then  cut  it 
and  let  one  bunch  be  for  each  half-slice  and  fall  open, 
then  pour  on  the  gravy  or  sauce  and  a  sprinkle  of 
pepper;  serve  soon.  Some  cut  the  asparagus  in  inch 
long  pieces. 


124  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 


Salsify  and  Parsnips. 

Grate  a  bunch  or  two  of  salsify,  as  you  would  horse- 
radish, add  a  raw  egg  beaten,  rolled  cracker  or  flour, 
and  fry  as  you  would  oysters.  Parsnips  orepared  in 
this  way  are  extremely  nice. 

Fried  Salsify  or  Mock  Oysters. 

Scrape  the  roots,  la}'  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes, 
put  them  in  boiling  water,  cook  till  tender,  then  drain 
and  mash  fine,  picking  out  all  the  fiber.  Moisten  with 
one  teacup  of  cream,  a  little  milk;  add  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  three  eggs  for  every  two  cups  of  salsify. 
Beai:  the  eggs  light.  Make  into  round  cakes,  dredge 
with  flour  and  fry  brown. 

Boiled  Cauliflower.     , 

Select  close  heads,  trim  and  open  the  flower  in 
water  to  remove  any  insects.  Soak  in  salt  and  water 
for  an  hour  before  cooking,  then  put  them  in  boiling 
water  with  a  little  salt,  cook  till  tender,  slowly.  Can 
tie  up  in  piece  of  cheese-cloth  to  prevent  them  break- 
ing, or  if  not  lift  out  with  a  skimmer.  Serve  with 
drawn  butter,  adding  a  well  beaten  o.^^  or  mayonnaise 
sauce. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  onions,  drain  off,  this 
will  prevent  the  smarting  of  the  eyes,  then  peel,  put 
them  over  to  boil  in  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  for  fif- 
teen minutes,  then  pour  off  this  water  to  take  out  the 
strong  taste,  and  put  in  more  boiling  water  and  cook 
till  tender;  put  salt  in  when  cooking;  pour  off  this 
water,  and  pat  on  cream  and  butter  or  milk,  season. 


I'lic  Queen  Cook  Book  125 

and  thicken  a  little  and  boil  it  live  minutes,  put  it  in 
covered  dish.  Do  not  boil  vegetables  on  the  gallop 
as  it  makes  them  fall  to  pieces. 

Celery  and  Radishes. 

Clean  with  a  brush  (a  new  stiff  tooth-brush  is  the 
best),  put  in  a  celery  glass  with  water  and  eat  with 
salt. 

Celery — Cooked. 

Clean  and  cut  in  pieces  one-half  inch  long,  cover 
with  soup  stock  and  boil  till  tender,  remember  the 
salt.  Rub  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  of 
flour  together  and  stir  in  and  dish. 

Dandelions. 

These  are  used  for  greens  in  the  early  spring.  Do 
not  use  them  after  they  blossom,  as  then  they  are 
bitter.  Cook  only  the  leaves;  wash  them  in  two 
waters,  leaf  by  leaf.  It  is  safer  for  the  lady  of  the 
house  to  see  to  this  herself,  as  then  she  can  feel  sure 
there  are  no  bugs  or  stray  weeds.  Simply  boil  in 
water  with  a  little  salt,  until  tender,  from  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes;  drain  well  and  eat  with  vinegar  or 
mayonnaise  sauce. 

Cooking  Cabbage. 

Almost  every  one  likes  cauliflower  if  it  is  properly 
cooked,  while  few  admit  a  fondness  for  cabbage.  Yet 
it  belongs  to  the  same  family  and  is  improved  by  cook- 
ing well.  It  should  first  be  parboiled  one-half  hour  in  a 
porcelain  kettle;  a  little  salt,  then  drained,  and  put  on 
fresh  boiling  water  and  cooked  until  tender  two  hours. 
Serve  with  this  dressing: 


126  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 


Cabbage  Dressing. 

Three  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  q.%^^\  mix  altogether  and 
let  them  just  come  to  a  boil.  Let  them  cool  off 
a  little  and  then  thicken  with  a  beaten  Qgg\  boil  up 
again,  then  thicken  with  milk  or  cream,  as  you  have. 

Sauerkraut. 

Squeeze  the  cabbage  out  of  the  brine,  wash  it  in 
one  or  two  cold  waters,  drain;  put  it  in  porcelain  ket- 
tle, cover  with  cold  water,  boil  two  hours;  pour  into 
colander,  press  out  the  water,  replace  in  vessel.  Pre- 
pare a  dressing  of  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  of 
flour,  stir  in  pan  on  the  fire  until  a  light  brown  color. 
Mix  this  well  with  one  quart  of  kraut. 

Wiesbaden. 


Baked  Macaroni. 

Use  about  half  a  pound  of  macaroni,  break  it  up  in 
pieces,  put  it  in  boiling  water;  salt  and  boil  rapidly  for 
twenty-five  minutes  to  prevent  it  from  sticking  together. 
Drain  well,  then  throw  into  cold  water  to  blanch  for  ten 
minutes;  drain  again.  Have  a  buttered  pudding  dish, 
place  a  layer  in  the  bottom,  then  cover  with  grated 
cheese  and  a  few  lumps  of  butter,  then  another  layer 
of  macaroni  and  more  butter  and  cheese  until  all  is 
used  up;  pour  on  one-half  cup  of  cream.  Bake  cov- 
ered for  half  an  hour;  then  remove  the  cover  and  bake 
the  too  to  a  golden  brown  on  grate.      Serve  in  dish. 

Mollie. 


The  Quccu  Cook  Book  127 

Macaroni  k  1'   Italienne. 

yi   pound  macaroni  ^  pint  cream  or  milk 

^  pound  grated  cheese  Butter  svaq  of  a  walnut 

Cook  the  macaroni  the  same  as  for  baking.  Put 
the  milk  into  a  farina-boiler  add  the  butter  then  the 
macaroni  and  cheese ;stir  until  thoroughly  heated,  add 
salt  and  pepper,    and  serve.  Mrs.  Rarer. 

Oyster  Macaroni. 

Boil  macaroni  the  same  as  above,  put  a  layer  in  a 
dish  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of 
oysters  and  alternate  until  the  dish  is  full.  Mix- 
some  grated  bread  or  rolled  cracker  with  a  beaten 
Q^^.      Spread  over  top  and  bake. 

Cream  Macaroni. 

Select  macaroni  that  is  of  a  brownish  color,  rather 
than  of  a  pure  white.  Spaghetti  is  the  most  delicate 
form  of  macaroni  that  comes  to  this  country. 

For  a  dish  holding  three  pints  one-half  pound  of 
spaghetti  will  be  required.  Have  ready  a  kettle  full 
of  boiling  water,  salted.  Take  the  spaghetti  all  up 
together,  in  the  long  sticks  without  breaking.  Hold 
the  ends  in  the  boiling  water;  in  an  instant  it  will  all 
go  down  into  the  water.  \Miirl  it  round  and  round 
\vlth  a  fork  to  thoroughly  separate  it,  then  allow  it  to 
boil  hard  for  twenty  minutes.  When  done,  put  it  in 
a  colander  and  pour  cold  water  through  it  (this  is 
called  blanching).  After  it  is  drained,  put  it  into  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked. 

For  the  Cream  Gravy. 

Put  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk  on  in  double 
boiler.   Stir  smoothly  together  three  tablespoons  of  flour 


128  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

and  three  scant  tablespoons  of  butter.  When  smooth, 
stir  carefully  into  the  boiling-  milk,  stirring  till  flour  is 
cooked.  Then  add  three  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese. 
Parmesan  is  best,  but  any  strong  cheese  will  answer. 
Pour  it  over  the  macaroni  in  the  dish,  sprinkle  a  little 
more  cheese  over  the  top  and  put  in  the  oven  to 
brown.  Do  not  put  the  cream  and  macaroni  together 
till'  ready  to  go  into  the  oven,  as  the  cream  will 
curdle  if  allowed  to  stand  on  the  macaroni. 

Mrs.  Rarer. 


Toasted  Cheese. 

One-half  pound  of  rich  cheese  is  enough  for  four 
slices  of  toast.  Cut  the  cheese  thin  in  slices  a  little 
smaller  than  the  toast,  and  put  it  in  buttered  tin 
in  oven  to  toast.  While  this  is  toasting,  toast  the 
bread,  salt  and  butter  it.  Put  cheese  on  toast. 
Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Rorer. 

Cheese  Straws. 

2  ounces  flour  A  little  cayenne  and  salt 

3  ounces  grated  Parmesan  Yolk  of  one  e.^'g 
cheese 

Mix  flour,  cayenne,  salt  and  cheese  together,  and 
moisten  with  the  Qgg:,  work  all  into  a  smooth  paste. 
Roll  out  on  a  board,  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  five 
inches  wide,  and  five  inches  long.  Cut  some  of  the 
paste  in  small  rings  and  some  in  strips  of  one-eighth 
of  an  inch  wide.  Place  both  on  greased  sheets  and 
bake  ten  minutes  in  an  oven  (240  Fahr.)  till  a  light 
brown.  Then  put  the  .straws  through  the  rings  like  a 
bundle  of  sticks.  Mrs.  Rorer. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  129 


Stock  for  Sauces  and  Gravies, 

111  every  family  of  five  or  six  persons  or  more,  there 
will  be  many  bones  and  fragments  of  meat  left  from 
roasts  and  steaks  either  cooked  or  uncooked  or  both 
which  can  be  utilized  for  making  stock  or  puree  for 
gravies  and  sauces  for  various  kinds  of  meats,  fish  or 
croquettes.  Put  into  a  granite  or  porcelain  kettle,  the 
bones  and  pieces  of  meats  from  yesterday's  and 
to-day's  cooking  (do  not  use  any  older  bits  for  they 
loose  their  virtue  by  standing) ;  with  as  little  water  as 
will  cook  well,  and  boil  slowly  for  three  hours, 
covered  tight;  salt  it  just  right  for  eating;  have 
the  quantity  of  broth  according  to  the  nourishment 
contained  in  the  meat.  This  will  not  often  be  rich 
enough  for  soups;  strain  it  through  a  soup  strainer, 
when  cold  take  off  the  fat.  In  winter  it  will  keep  a 
week.  In  large  families  it  can  be  prepared  twice 
a  week.  To  make  nice  gravies  is  only  difficult  to  the 
inexperienced.  You  will  soon  learn  to  use  good  judg- 
ment and  be  a  good  taster. 

Maitre  d'  Hotel  Sauce. 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  tablespoon  chopped  par- 

I  tablespoon  lemon  juice  sley 

Salt,  a  little 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  together.      Served  with 
salt  fish.  Mrs.  Rorer. 

Anchovy  Sauce. 

Add  to  the  above  recipe  two  tablespoons  of  anchovy 
paste.      Try  it  for  fried  fish. 


130  TJie  Qiic'cn  Cook  Book 


Apple  Sauce. 

Nice  tart  apple  sauce  can  be  served  with  all  dishes 
of  fresh  pork. 

Beaknais  Sauce. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs  ]/^  teaspoon  salt,  red  pep- 

3  tablespoons  butter  per 

3    tablespoons    stock    or      i    tablespoon    gooseberry 

water  catsup 

I  tablespoon  vinegar 

Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  stock  and  butter,  standing 
the  new  basin  in  boiling  water  stirring  until  the  eggs 
thicken,  then  add  the  other  ingredients.  Nice  for 
meat  croquettes.  Add  one  cup  of  cream  to  this  and  a 
little  flour  and  it  is  good  for  steamed  fish.  And  you 
have  also  Bechamel  sauce. 

Brown  Sauce. 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  teaspoon  onion  juice 

2  even  tablespoons  flour         2  tablespoons  gooseberry 
I  tablespoon  parsley  catsup. 

I  pint  stock  or  water  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Melt   and  brown  the  butter  in  spider,  stir  in  flour, 
add  the  hot  stock;  stir  continually;  simmer  gently  for 
ten  minutes  then  add  the  other  ingredients.      This  is 
nice  for  warmed  over  roasts. 

Caper  Sauce. 

Is  made  by  adding  two  tablespoons  of  capers  to  the 
drawn  butter  sauce.      See  the  recipe. 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book  1 3 1 

Currant  Jelly  Sauce. 

Add  five  tablespoons  of  the  jelly  to  the  drawn  butter 
and  let  it  boil  up  once.      Serve  with  any  wild  game. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

This  should  always  be  served  with  roast  turkey, 
either  in  the  form  of  jam  or  jelly. 

Lobster  Sauce. 

Add  one  cup  of  lobster  to  drawn  butter,  chopped 
fine,  and  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  a  spoon  of  butter. 
Nice  with  fish.  Oyster  sauce  for  roast  turkey  is  made 
the  same  way,  using  the  oyster  broth  and  chopping  the 
oysters. 

Celery  Sauce. 

5  roots  celery  i  pint  cold  water 

I  even  tablespoon  flour        5^  pint  milk 
I  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Clean  the  celery,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  (granite);  stew  slowly  about  thirty  minutes; 
press  it  through  a  colander.  Mi.x  the  butter  and  flour 
to  a  cream;  put  all  together;  stir  continually,  letting 
it  boil  two  minutes.      Good  with  boiled  fowl. 

Cream  Dressing  No.   2. 

When  oil  is  disliked  in  salads  the  following  dressing 
will  be  found  excellent:  Rub  the  yolks  of  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs  very  smooth  with  a  silver  spoon.  Stir 
gradually  in  a  teaspoon  of  mixed  mustard,  a  table- 
spoon of  softened  butter,  half  a  cup  of  thick  cream,  a 
a  saltspoon  of  salt,  cayenne  pepper  the  size  of  a  small 
pea,  a  few  drops  of  anchovy  or  Worcestershire  sauce 


132  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

or  gooseberry  catsup  as  you  like.  Slowly  add  suffi- 
cient vinegar  to  make  it  a  creamy  consistency.  Good 
for  any  salad  or  lettuce. 

A  Plain  Sauce 

Salt  and  a  sprinkle  cayenne   %  pint  softened  butter 
pepper  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

5  yolks  of  eggs 
Add  the  butter  gradually  to  the  well-beaten  yolks, 
add  the  seasoning;  put  in  a  double  boiler;  stir  con- 
tinually until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  as  it 
will  curdle.  Take  it  off  and  add  the  lemon  juice. 
For  salads. 


PASTRY  AND  PIES. 

Practice  and  good  judgment  are  as  necessary  as 
good  recipes  to  become  a  good  pie-maker.  Pies  are 
not  as  economical  as  puddings,  neither  are  they  as 
healthy.  Dyspeptics  should  seldom  if  ever  eat  them. 
A  good  pie  is  very  relishable  where  there  is  a  good  ap- 
petite. One  needs  to  save  some  of  their  appetite  for 
pie,  so  do  not  eat  a  full  supply  beforehand,  nor  too 
large  a  piece.  Pie  crust  should  be  light,  crisp  and 
flaky.  Use  fine  flour  and  the  best  of  butter.  The 
rolling  board  should  be  heavy,  smooth  and  level,  the 
rolling-pin  should  be  of  hard  wood,  smooth  and  even; 
the  water  very  cold,  even  ice  cold.  Never  knead  or 
work  the  dough  as  it  makes  it  tough,  but  stir  it  only 
with  your  fingers  in  as  slight  a  way  as  possible;  take 
it  out  to  roll  in  all  its  roughness.  Flour  the  board 
(some  like  a  marble  board)  and  rolling-pin,  and  always 
roll  from  you.  It  is  better  to  mix  the  crust  and  let  it 
stand  in  a  cold  place  or  in  ice-box  till  cold  before  roll- 


TJic   Queen  Cook  Book  1 3  3 

ing  out.  The  secret  of  success  with  puff  paste  is  to 
put  it  in  a  cold  place  for  fifteen  minutes  after  rolling  it 
three  times.  Then  roll  it  twice  more  to  secure  the 
greatest  number  of  layers  of  butter  and  dough  alter- 
nately as  the  result  of  folding  (not  rolling  over  and 
over  as  one  would  for  a  roly-poly)  and  rolling  out 
without  breaking  it.  It  must  be  just  stiff  enough  to 
handle  easily  and  not  stick  much  to  the  iloured  board, 
or  pin,  neither  roll  hard.  Three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  butter  to  one  pound  of  flour  is  the  least  that  can  be 
used  for  good  puff  paste.  For  common  use  one-half 
as  much  butter  as  flour  by  weight,  if  not  worked  any, 
only  stirred,  makes  good  crust.  I  always  use  butter 
for  shortening  for  pie  crust,  biscuit,  fried  cakes,  muf- 
fins, etc.  Pastry  requires  a  quick  oven  and  of  even 
heat,  and  must  bake  the  fastest  on  the  bottom.  Take 
out  the  grate;  can  put  it  on  the  upper  grate  to  brown 
the  top.  Pies  should  be  baked  on  earthen  plates. 
Three  medium-sized  coffee  cups  of  flour  is  one  pound. 
One  coffee  cup  and  nearly  one-third  is  one  pound  of 
butter.  This  is  the  proportion  of  a  pound  of  flour  to 
to  a  pound  of  butter  by  measure.  The  cup  full  is  iust 
one-halfpint. 

Puff  Paste. 

I  pound  sifted  flour  i     pint     nearly     very    cold 

I  teaspoon  salt  water 

I  pound  washed  butter 

Scald  a  large  earthen  dish  and  rinse  it  so  the  butter 
will  not  stick  to  it,  then  fill  it  with  ice-cold  water  and 
put  in  butter;  with  a  cool  hand  work  it  in  the  water 
for  eight  minutes.  Drain  it  well  and  let  it  stand  on 
ice  to  harden.  Then  divide  the  butter  into  five  parts; 
work  one-fifth  of  it  with  the  salt  into  the  flour  with  a 
knife,  cutting  it  quickly  in  small  pieces,  at  the  same 


134  T^^ic  Queen  Cook  Booh 

time  mixing  it  with  the  flour;  add  the  ice  water, 
gradually,  stirring  it  with  your  fingers.  Not  all  the 
water,  perhaps,  as  some  flours  swell  more  than 
others.  Then  put  it  on  board  in  the  roughest  form 
(never  knead  or  work  it);  dredge  it  with  flour  and  roll 
quickly  into  a  long,  thin  sheet.  Cut  one-fourth  of  the 
butter  you  have  left  in  little  bits  and  put  on  crust;  sift 
on  a  sprinkle  of  flour;  double  it  over,  roll  out  the  same 
way;  repeat  this  three  times,  using  all  the  butter. 
Then  put  it  in  cold  place  to  stiffen  and  it  is  ready  for 
tarts,  pies  or  patties. 

For  Tarts  or  Patties. 

Cut  out  with  a  cooky  cutter  three  layers.  Take 
a  pepper-box  cover  and  cut  out  the  center  of  two 
layers  and  lay  on  top  of  the  whole  one,  which  makes 
one  tart.  The  crust  should  be  rolled  very  thin;  bake, 
then  fill  with  jelly  a  short  time  before  using.  Another 
very  pretty  way  is  to  take  an  open-top  thimble  or 
something  as  small  and  cut  three  or  five  holes  in  the 
two  top  layers;  after  baking  lift  them  off,  put  a  slice  of 
jelly  on  the  lower  layer;  put  the  two  upper  layers  on, 
squeezing  up  the  jelly  through  the  holes;  this  has 
a  pretty  effect.  For  patties  use  a  little  larger  cutter; 
a  sharp  cutter  is  the  best.  The  oven  should  have 
a  strong  under  heat,  so  they  will  rise  before  browning. 
If  oven  is  too  hot  open  the  draughts,  or  put  a  basin  of 
cold  water  in  oven. 

Tart  Crust. 

The  white  of  one  e^gg  i  tablespoon  white  sugar 

I  cup  butter  i  even  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  sifted  flour  5  tablespoons  cold  water 

Beat  the  o.gg  stiff,  and  prepare  the  same  way  as  for 
puff  paste. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  135 

Pie  Crust. 

I "%.  pounds  flour  i  pound  butter 

Wash  the  butter,  have  every  thing  as  cold  as  possi- 
ble, use  less  than  a  half  pint  of  very  cold  w^ater.  Rub 
the  butter  and  teaspoon  salt  in  the  flour  with  the 
hands,  then  stir  the  water  in  with  the  fingers,  put  it  in 
the  rough  on  the  molding  board,  roll  out,  cut  it  in 
wide  strips,  put  one  upon  another,  then  cut  in  squares 
to  make  the  size  for  each  plate  and  roll  out  for  the 
pie  plates.  It  will  be  better  to  set  the  dough  on  ice 
before  rolling  out.  Never  press  on  the  crust  after  it 
is  on  the  plate.  Wet  the  rim  of  under  crust  with 
water  to  make  the  crusts  unite,  so  as  to  retain  the 
juices. 

Plain  Pie  Crust. 

Plain  but  good  family  pie  crust  is  made  with  one 
pound  of  flour  and  one-half  bound  of  butter,  or  three 
cups  of  sifted  flour  and  one  cup  of  butter,  rub  them  well 
together,  so  that  when  you  squeeze  it  in  your  hand  it 
will  remain  in  form;  add  cold  water  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  dough;  do  not  make  it  too  wet,  as  it  makes  it 
tough  to  work  it  over.  Roll  out  just  enough  for  the 
one  plate.      This  last  quantity  is  enough  for  two  pies. 

Pie  Crust  with  Lard. 

4  cups  sifted  flour  i  ^  cups  lard  or  butter 

1  heaping  teaspoon  salt        3^  cup  ice  cold  water 

Rub  the  lard  and  salt  lightly  into  the  flour  and  stir 
in  the  water  with  fingers  of  one  hand,  flour  the  board 
and  roller,  and  roll  it  in  the  rough,  do  not  work  it  at 
all,  as  it  makes  it  tough.  I  have  eaten  very  flaky  and 
tender  crust  made  of  lard,  also  of  half  lard  and  half 
butter. 


136  TJic  Qitccn  Cook  Book 


A  Good  Plain  Pie  Crust. 

Sift  one  quart  of  f^our  (which  is  one  pound)  into  your 
bowl  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  heaping.  Lard  requires 
more  salt  than  butter.  Rub  in  one  teacup  of  fresh 
lard,  stir  in  one  cup  of  very  cold  water  to  make  it  stiff 
enough  to  roll;  handle  it  deftly  and  as  little  as  possi- 
ble; 'flour  the  board  and  pin,  roll  out  very  thin;  re- 
member to  roll  from  you.  Have  ready  one  teacup  of 
good  butter  that  has  been  washed  in  two  cold  waters, 
spread  one-third  of  the  butter  on  the  dough,  sprinkle 
with  fiour;  fold  it  over,  then  roll  it  out  thin  again; 
spread  with  bits  of  butter  again  and  roll  out,  making 
four  times,  to  use  all  the  butter.  Then  roll  out,  after 
setting  the  pan  in  ice  water  to  get  cold,  just  enough  for 
one  crust  at  a  time.  This  will  make  crust  enough  for 
two  or  three  pies  according  to  size. 

Apple  Pie. 

Wash  and  peel  tender  sour  apples,  slice  them  very 
thin.  Put  the  under  crust  on  the  pie  plate  and  fill  it 
sufficiently  full  to  be  right  when  cooked.  Flavor  with 
either  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  as  you  like  or  allspice, 
put  bits  of  butter  all  around,  cover  with  sugar  one-half 
cup  of  water,  dip  the  fingers  in  water  and  alwa3'S  wet 
the  rim  of  crust  all  round,  then  roll  out  the  upper 
crust  neither  too  thick  nor  too  thin,  double  it  together 
and  cut  three  gashes  in  center,  lay  it  on  the  pie,  cut 
the  edges  smooth,  prick  it  with  a  fork  five  times  to  let 
the  air  out.  If  the  apples  are  not  tender  partly  cook 
them,  but  you  must  have  tart  apples  to  make  a  good 
pie.  Some  expert  cooks  put  nothing  in  but  water, 
till  the  pie  is  baked,  then  lift  the  upper  crust  off  whole 
while  hot  and  stir  in  the  sugar,  butter  and  flavoring. 


The  Quccu  Cook  Book  137 

Pie  Plant  or  Rhubarb  Pie. 

Wash  the  stalks  of  rhubarb  and  p^el  off  the  thin 
stringy  skin  by  stripping  it  down,  then  cut  it  in  one- 
half  inch  pieces.  Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  crust, 
fill  it  nearly  full  of  pieplant,  grate  nutmeg  on  it,  sift  a 
little  flour,  put  bits  of  butter  on,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one-third  cup  of  molasses,  no  water,  as  it  is  juicy  of 
itself.  Roll  the  crust  out  the  same  as  for  apple  pie, 
only  squeeze  the  edges  together  to  retain  the  juices. 
The  oven  must  be  only  just  to  a  slow  boiling  heat  or 
the  syrup  will  all  boil  out. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

This  requires  only  the  under  crust  with  a  rim ;  this 
is  best  made  by  rolling  the  crust  about  an  inch  larger 
than  the  plate,  then  you  have  a  continuous  circle  to 
lay  on  the  edge  of  plate,  about  three-fourths  of  an 
inch  wide,  wet  the  edge  of  under  crust  where  you  lay 
it  on;  put  the  rim  all  around,  do  not  press  on  it,  and 
it  is  ready  to  fill.  Be  sure  you  have  a  good  pumpkin, 
cut  in  two.  dig  out  the  seeds  and  inside,  bake  on  grate 
in  a  hot  oven  until  soft,  or  steam  it,  it  is  richer  baked. 
(In  cold  weather  you  can  bake  enough  for  twdce,  keep- 
ing in  a  cool  place;  they  should  be  eaten  the  day  the)' 
are  baked,  though  you  can  scald  them  over.)  Scrape 
out  the  pulp,  press  it  through  a  colander.  The  most 
delicate  pie  is  made  by  using  one-third  pumpkin,  one- 
third  milk,  one-third  eggs  and  cream  or  milk  as  you 
have  it,  nutmeg,  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoon  ginger, 
one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Some  hke  it  half  pump- 
kin, it  is  more  solid.  This  is  for  one  pie.  Two  eggs 
are  good,  but  three  are  better.  Two  large  spoons  sugar; 
some  pumpkins  are  sweeter  than  others.  Heat  the 
mixture  hot  when  ready  to  fill  the  pie  and  bake;  have 


138  T]i€  Que  en  Cook  Book 

a  hot  oven.  Beat  well  into  the  pumpkin  all  the  spices 
and  sugar,  then  the  milk,  and  last  the  well  beaten 
eggs. 

Hubbard  Squash  Pie. 

I  large  coffee  cup  new  i  large  coffee  cup  squash 

milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  coffee  cup  of  2  or     Y^  nutmeg 

3  beaten  eggs  filled  up     3^  cup  sugar 
with  cream  i  teaspoon  Jamaica  ginger 

The  squash  is  prepared  the  same  way  as  the  pump- 
kin. In  baking  it  cover  it  with  thick  brown  paper, 
stand  it  on  grate  or  a  brick,  bake  double  the  quantity 
}'ou  need,  as  it  will  keep  in  a  cold  place  two  or  three 
days.  The  crust  and  filling  prepared  the  same 
as  the  pumpkin.  This  is  the  measure  for  one  pie. 
You  will  see  the  proportion  is  one-third  squash  to  the 
other  ingredients. 

Hubbard  Squash  or  Pumpkin  Pie. 

4  eggs  beaten  separately     4  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  squash  or  pumpkin  2  cups  milk  or  i  of  cream 
I  teaspoon  cinnamon  Y/^  grated  nutmeg 

Last  thing  stir  in  the  whites,    i  teaspoon  ginger 

Cherry  Pie, 

Wash  the  cherries,  take  out  the  pits;  line  a  deep 
plate  with  crust,  fill  with  the  fruit  having  two  thick 
layers  (first  drain  off  the  juice)  sift  a  good  tablespoon 
of  flour,  bits  of  butter  on  it,  one  full  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  three-fourths  cup  of  molasses  (no  water  or 
juice)  then  cover,  not  forgetting  to  wet  the  edge  of 
under  crust  and  pressing  the  edges  together.  Bake 
in  hot  oven.       Whenever  your  oven  is  too  hot  always 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book  1 39 

put  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  or  open  the  dampers.  If 
the  heat  is  just  at  a  boihng  point,  the  syrup  will  not 
run  out  and  the  pie  is  delicious.  A  handful  of  cherry 
pits  scattered  in  the  pie,  adds  to  the  flavor;  but 
do  not  do  it  if  there  are  any  children  in  the  family. 

Peach  Pie, 

Line  your  plate  with  good  crust,  peel  and  slice  the 
peaches  with  a  silver  knife,  fill  the  plate,  sift  one 
tablespoon  of  flour,  sprinkle  one-half  cup  or  more  of 
sugar  on,  add  one-third  of  a  cup  of  water.  Be  careful  to 
wet  the  edge  of  lower  crust  before  covering  the  pie, 
so  the  edges  will  adhere  together  and  retain  the  juice 
in  the  pie  and  add  much  to  its  richness.  Crack  five  or 
six  of  the  pits  and  put  the  meats  in  the  pie,  for  flavor- 
ing if  you  like. 

Cream  Pie. 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  a  rich  paste  and  fill  with 
a  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  teaspoon 
or  more  of  vanilla,  one  pint  of  milk  or  part  cream. 
When  the  pie  is  baked,  carefully  spread  a  layer  of 
orange  jeJly  or  any  jelly  or  jam  you  like  over  the  top 
(warm  it  if  too  stiff  to  spread  easily),  then  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of 
powdered  sugar  and  vanilla.  Spread  the  meringue 
evenly  but  not  smoothly  and  brown  slightly  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven.      Serve  cold. 

Cream  Pie  No.   2. 

Beat  two  eggs  well,  add  four  even  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  one  pint  of  sweet  cream,  flavor  with  nutmeg  or 
vanilla.      Great  care  should  be  taken  not  to  bake  any 


140  TJic  Qnccn  Cook  Book 

custard  too  lon^,  as  it  will  soon  turn  to  whey,  after  it 
is  at  boiling  point. 

Custard  Pie. 

To  one  pint  of  milk  add  two  beaten  eggs  with  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  dust  of  salt,  flavor  with  nut- 
meg. Line  the  pie  plate  with  crust  and  a  rim  and 
bake  as  in  the  above  recipe. 

CocoANUT  Pie. 

I  cup  grated  cocoanut  3  eggs 

4  tablespoons  sugar  i  teaspoon  butter,  salt 

I  lemon  i  pint  milk 

Grate  a  cocoanut  after  removing  the  outer  shell  and 
the  inner  skin,  strain  the  milk  it  contains  through  a 
cloth  if  you  like  to  use  it,  if  not,  use  a  pint  of  boiled 
milk,  stir  in  the  cocoanut,  then  the  butter  and  beaten 
yolks,  sugar,  the  grated  rind  and  strained  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  or  make  a 
meringue  made  by  sweetening  the  well-beaten  eggs 
with  two  large  spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  spread  it  on  top 
with  a  good  sprinkle  of  cocoanut  after  it  is  baked,  and 
return  on  the  grate  until  delicately  browned.  Line 
the  pie  plate  with  best  pie  crust  and  fill.  All  pies 
with  only  one  crust  must  have  a  rim  laid  on  it. 

Lemon  Pie  No.  3. 

I  large  or  2  small  lemons       i  y^  cups  hot  water 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  3  soda  crackers 

I  cup  sugar  Whites  of  three  eggs 

Grate  the  rind,  strain  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  roll  the 
crackers,  stir  and  pour  on  the  hot  water,  beat  the 
yolks,  mix  all  together;  pour  it  in  the  crust,  which 
should  be  of  the  best,  and   bake  while  hot;  make  a 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  141 

meringue  of  the  whites  beaten  stiff,  then  sift  in  three 
heaping  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  spread  on  top, 
and  brown. 

Lemon  Pie  No.  2. 

I  lemon  i  tablespoon  corn  starch 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs,  salt  a  little 
Butter  the  size  of  an  ^g^,^      2  cups  hot  water 

Stir  up  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  water  and 
pour  it  in  the  hot  water  and  let  boil  enough  to  cook 
the  starch  (say  one  minute),  let  cool,  then  add  the 
butter,  sugar  and  beaten  eggs,  and  lemon,  grated  rind 
and  strained  juice.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  three  spoons  of  sugar.  Some  bake  the 
shell  or  crust  first,  lightly,  then  fill  and  bake  the  filling, 
for  all  lemon  or  custard  pies. 

Lemon  Pie  No.  i.      (Very  Fine.) 

2  lemons  3  eggs 

8  tablespoons  sugar  i  cup  water 

2  even  tablespoons  flour 
Grate  the  rmd  and  strain  the  juice  of  the  lemons, 
stir  the  flour  up  with  the  water,  then  add  the  sugar 
and  beaten  yolk,  then  the  juice  and  grated  rind. 
Bake  with  an  under  crust;  have  ready  when  it  comes 
from  the  oven,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with 
four  tablespoons  of  pulverized  sugar;  spread  over  the 
pie,  set  in  oven,  and  brown  as  quickly  as  possible,  to 
avoid  being  leathery.  Home  Messenger. 

Orange  Pie. 

Slice  three  or  four  oranges  into  a  plate  lined  with 
paste,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of 
water,  cover  with  paste.  This  is  nice,  but  orange 
shortcake  is  better. 


142  The  Quccii  Cook  Book 

Sponge  Cake  Cream  Pie. 
One  teacup  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of  flour  with  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  three  eggs  beaten  separately. 
Bake  it  in  two  layer  cakes.  Whip  a  pint  of  very  cold 
sweet  cream  until  very  smooth  and  stiff;  first  sweeten 
and  flavor  to  taste,  then  spread  it  on  one  of  the  layers, 
placing  the  other  on  top.  If  one  likes  one  can  spread 
the  top  with  cream  and  cocoanut.  Should  be  eaten 
the  same  day. 

Lemon  Tarts. 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  flour 

2  eggs  I  pint  boiling  water 

I  large  lemon 
Make  the  tart  shells  of  puff  paste  and  fill  with  this 
mixture.  Grate  the  rind,  strain  the  juice  of  lemon, 
wet  the  flour  with  cold  water,  beat  the  eggs  sep- 
arately, reserve  one  white  for  the  top,  stir  sugar  and 
all  in  the  hot  water  and  boil  enough  to  cook  the  flour. 
Stir  it  constantly  till  clear  and  smooth. 

Huckleberry  Pie. 
This  has  two  crusts,  top  and  bottom.  Wash  the 
berries  and  drain  well;  fill  the  crust  pretty  full; 
sprinkle  two  tablespoons  of  flour  on  top,  bits  of  butter, 
a  little  salt;  cover  the  berries  with  a  cup  of  brown 
sugar  and  a  sprinkle  of  water.  Pinch  the  edges 
together  and  keep  it  just  at  the  boiling  point,  or  you 
will  lose  the  syrup. 

Washington  Pie. 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

2  eggs  I  teaspoon  baking  powder 
]/2  cup  milk                            2  cups  flour 

Bake  in  two  layer  cakes  and  put  between  them  the 
filling.     Filling:    Make  a  custard  with  one-half  pint  of 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  143 

milk,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  spoon  of  flour, 
one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt;  flavor  with  essence  of  lemon; 
beat  well  together  and  boil  a  minute  to  cook  the  flour. 
Flavor  them  both  with  the  same  flavoring.  When 
cold  spread  on  one  cake  and  lay  the  other  on  top.  Or 
if  you  like  it  better,  instead,  spread  any  kind  of  fruit 
jam  or  apple  marmalade  or  cocoanut  on  top. 

Mince  Pies. 

4  pounds  solid  beef  6  pounds  tart  raw  apples 

3  coffee  cups  chopped  suet  i  quart  boiled  cider 
2  pounds  raisins  i  quart  molasses 

4  pints  brown  sugar  4  pints  water 

4  teaspoons  cinnamon  4  teaspoons  cloves 

2  nutmegs 
If  you  wish  the  whole  quantity,  purchase  five  pounds 
of  solid  lean  meat  (the  best  of  the  round  is  good),  as 
there  is  some  waste;  in  boiling  the  meat  allow  one 
pound  for  loss,  in  boiling  such  a  quantity.  Salt  it 
right  for  eating  when  you  put  it  over,  in  boiling  hot 
water;  boil  until  just  tender;  set  away  to  get  cool  over 
night,  then  cut  in  small  pieces  and  chop  it  fine,  so  it 
will  be  neither  coarse  grained  nor  pasty,  then  weigh  it. 
Peel  the  apples,  quarter,  core  and  chop  them;  wash 
and  wipe  them  before  peeling,  and  then  weigh  the 
quarters  before  chopping.  Wash  and  seed  the  raisins, 
but  do  not  chop  them;  chop  the  suet  fine,  mix  all  to- 
gether in  a  large  earthen  dish.  Do  not  use  all  the 
water,  let  the  mince  meat  stand  for  two  days  (as  it 
will  swell  some),  in  a  cool  place;  you  can  add  more 
water,  cider,  or  sugar,  as  you  think  it  needs,  after 
baking  one  pie  to  try  it.  They  do  not  taste  so  sweet 
after  baking.  Bake  well  done,  three-fourths  of  an 
hour.  These  are  nice  to  make  in  winter,  as  you  can 
bake  up  as  many  as  you  like,  according  to  the  size  of 


144  ^^^'^  On  ecu  Cook  Book 

the  family,  from  ten  to  twenty  at  a  time.  Keep  them 
in  a  cold  room,  but  do  not  freeze  them.  Put  the 
mince  meat  that  is  left  in  a  crock  and  cover  the  top 
with  writing-  paper.  It  will  keep  in  a  cold  place  three 
months,  only  it  must  not  freeze.  For  a  small  family 
of  four  I  only  make  one-half  the  quantity,  I  grate  the 
nutmeg  in  each  pie  as  I  make  it,  with  bits  of  butter 
before  putting  the  crust  on.  It  requires  practice  to 
learn  to  make  good  pastry  for  mince  pies  (I  do  not 
mean  puff  paste),  and  also  not  to  fill  them  too  full.  I 
have  used  this  recipe  ever  since  1843,  and  have  never 
wished  for  any  better  for  any  occasion.  It  it  is  pal- 
atable and  healthy. 

The  two  following  recipes  I  take  from  the  Messen- 
ger, but  I  think  them  too  rich  for  health;  neither  do  I 
think  it  a  good  plan  to  boil  the  mince  meat: 

Mince  Pies. 

3  pounds  fresh  beef  i  fresh  beef  tongue 

4  or  6  pounds  suet  3^  pounds  raisins 
^  pound  citron  3  pounds  currants 
8  pounds  chopped  apples  4)^  pounds  sugar 

I  pint  molasses  3  ounces  cinnamon 

I  teacup  mace  compour/d    2  ounces  cloves 

I  ^  ounces  salt  i  nutmeg 

3^  ounce  pepper  i  }^  gallons  sweet  cider 

When  mixed  put  into  2.  kettle  and  scald,  stirring  it 
all  the  time.  Put  it  hot  into  Hero  or  Mason  jars — 
two  quart  or  gallon  jars — and  the  longer  j^ou  keep  it 
the  nicer  it  will  be.  When  making  up  your  pies  3'ou 
can  add  a  teacup  of  finely  chopped  apples  for  each  pie. 

Home  Messenger, 


TJic  Oiiccii  Cook  Book  145 


Mince  Pie. 

7  pounds  meat  i  teacup  mace  compound 

14  pounds  chopped  apples  6  pounds  suet 
I  Yz  gallons  boiled  cider       4  pounds  sugar 
Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to    7  pounds  currants 
taste.  7  pounds  seeded  raisins 

Boil  together  cider,  apples  and  sugar,  and  when  hot 
pour  over  the  other  ingredients.  If  citron  is  liked,  put 
in  slices  just  before  baking.  The  vinegar  from  pickled 
peaches  is  a  nice  addition;  to  this  quantity  use  one 
pint.  Home  Messenger. 


PUDDINGS. 

Fifty-six  years  ago  there  were  but  few  recipes  for 
puddings  or  pies,  both  being  considered  as  an  extra 
dish  for  company.  A  recipe  book  of  1838,  which  was 
the  one  I  tried  to  follow,  when  I  first  went  to  house- 
keeping in  1842,  gave  recipes  for  only  twelve  puddings 
and  seven  different  kinds  of  pies.  How  uncertain  I 
found  them.  I  shall  never  forget  my  first  baked  Indian 
pudding.  I  mixed  it  ready  to  bake,  and  left  it  for 
the  girl  to  bake  (as  I  was  invited  out  to  dine),  accord- 
ing to  directions  in  the  book,  three  to  four  hours.  It 
was  more  like  a  rock  than  a  delightful  suet  pudding. 
I  soon  left  the  book  to  lie  on  the  shelf  for  future  ages 
to  explore.  Some  puddings  are  good  either  cold  or 
hot.  A  baked  pudding  is  not  as  acceptable  immedi- 
ately from  the  oven  as  one  covered  and  cooled  for  ten 
minutes.  A  blistering  hot  pudding  is  anything  but 
acceptable,  no  matter  how  delicate  the  article  may  be. 


146  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

A  Delicate  Baked  Rice  Pudding. 

5  tablespoons  rice  3^  pints  milk 

6  tablespoons  sugar  i  teaspoon  salt 

^2  cup  raisins  Fl  avor  with  nutmeg 

Stir  the  ingredients  well  together,  and  cover  the 
pudding  the  first  hour  of  its  moderate  baking,  stirring 
every  fifteen  minutes,  so  it  will  form  the  cream  which 
makes  it  so  delicious.  Then  uncover  and  cook  slowly 
stirring  it  every  ten  minutes  twice,  then  let  it  slowly 
brown  on  the  top  for  ten  minutes  more,  taking  one 
and  a-half  hours  to  bake.  The  rice  kernels  should  be 
perfectly  soft,  amidst  the  delicate  cream  that  has 
form.ed  of  the  starch  of  the  rice  and  the  milk.  This 
simple  pudding  when  perfectly  made  and  baked, 
eaten  cold  in  summer  is  as  delicious  as  ice  cream. 
Much  depends  upon  the  careful  baking.  It  is  a 
delight  to  the  housekeeper  when  she  has  made  a 
good  dish,  to  have  it  baked  well,  for  baking  either 
makes  or  prevents  success. 

Rice  Pudding. 

3  tablespoons  rice      ■  i  quart  milk 

3  tablespoons  sugar  i  even  teaspoon  salt 

]4.  cup  raisins  Grated  nutmeg 

Bake  one  and  a-half  hours,  same  way  as  the  former. 
Serve  cold  or  hot  with  cold  sweet  cream. 

Baked  Batter  Pudding. 

I  quart  sweet  milk  8    eggs  beaten  separately 

9  tablespoons  sifted   flour     i  teaspoon  salt 

Measure  the  flour  and  gradually  beat  in  the  milk; 
beat  it  ten  minutes  with  salt,  then  beat  the  yolks  well 
and  beet  them  in,  beat  the  whites  stiff  and  beat  them 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  147 

in  well.  Butter  the  pucl(lin<^  dish  and  pour  in  and 
bake  immediately  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes.  Serve 
with  lemon  or  cream  sauce.  Plan  so  as  to  eat  on 
taking  out  of  the  oven,  as  it  is  liable  to  fall  when 
exposed  to  the  air.  Take  one  half  the  quantity  for 
four  persons.      Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Boiled  Battek  Pudding. 

r  quart  sweet  milk  i  pmt  sifted  flour 

8  eggs  beaten  separately        i  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  this  the  same  way  as  the  baked  pudding  pre- 
ceeding  this.  Boil  steadily  for  two  hours.  Do  not 
let  the  water  slacken  its  boiling  for  an  instant  as  it  will 
fall.  Keep  a  teakettle  of  boiling  water  to  replenish 
with  as  it  boils  out.  Get  a  tin  pudding  bag  or  make  a 
bag  of  drilling  (unbleached),  wash  it;  you  need  one 
half  a  yard  long,  not  quite  one  half  wide,  hem  both  ends 
and  run  a  string  in  long  enough  to  tie  it  tight  so  both 
ends  of  the  pudding  will  be  shaped  alike.  Sew  it  up 
wdth  double  seam,  scald  and  flour  the  inside,  pour  in 
the  pudding,  leaving  one  third  of  the  room  in  bag  for 
swelling;  have  the  water  boiling  when  you  plunge  it  in. 
Keep  covered  tight.  Serve  with  cream  or  lemon 
sauce. 

Steamed  ok  Boiled  Pudding. 

I  cup  molasses  2^2  cups  flour 

I  cup  sweet  milk  i  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  softened  butter  i  teaspoon  cloves 

Yz  teaspoon  soda  i  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

I  cup  seeded  raisins. 
Stir  soda  in  the  molasses;    mix  all  together.      Can 
steam  it  in  a  tin  basin  or  a  tin  pudding  dish,  or  boil  in 
a  bag;  follow  the  directions  for  boiled  batter  pudding. 


148  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

Steam  two  hours.  Use  any  sauce  you  like.  Cream 
sauce  is  the  most  health}'.  Lemon  sauce  is  the  most 
relishable. 

Genuine  English  Plum  Pudding, 

1    ig-cent  loaf  bread  i   quart  rich  milk 

I   pound  raisins  i    pound  currants 

I    pound  brown  sugar  3  tablespoons  flour 

54^   pound  beef  suet  2  grated  nutmegs 

3  teaspoons  cinnamon         2  lemons  or  oranges 

^/2    pound  cut  up  citron        10  eggs  beaten  separately 

Wash  and  seed  your  raisins,  wash  and  dry  the 
currants,  chop  the  suet  and  get  everything  ready  the 
day  before  making;  also  slice  the  baker's  bread  in 
thick  slices  and  dry  it  in  oven  and  grate  it,  stir  your 
milk  in  it;  then  add  the  other  ingredients  beating  it 
well,  adding  the  whites  last.  Stir  the  flour  on  the 
fruit.  Grate  the  orange  peel,  just  the  yellow  rind  (the 
white  is  al\va}'S  bitter),  squeeze  the  juice  and  strain, 
making  one-half  cup  of  juice.  Mix  well  and  pour  into 
a  scalded  and  floured  pudding  bag  if  you  wish  to  boil 
it,  and  place  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  keep  hot 
water  to  replenish  with.  Boil  steadily  five  hours.  Or 
put  it  in  a  tin  mold  or  basin  and  steam  it;  if  your  mold 
has  a  tube  in  the  center  it  will  steam  in  three  hours,  if 
not,  steam  it  five  hours.  This  wall  keep  three  weeks. 
Leave  it  in  bag  and  boil  or  steam  it  over  one  hour  the 
day  you  use  it.  Some  add  to  this  two  teaspoons  of 
extract  of  nectarine,  and  three  dozen  of  bitter  and 
sweet  almonds  blanched  and  powdered.  (I  use  no 
fruits  in  this  pudding,  but  the  raisins  and  oranges  or 
lemons  and  the  spices.  I  do  not  think  it  well  to  put 
everything  into  the  stomach  at  once.)  Use  foaming 
or  lemon  sauce. 


The  Que  en  Cook  Book  1 49 


English  Plum  Pudding. 

I  pound  raisins  Y^  nutmeg 

y^  pound  grated  bread  %^  pint  brandy 

5<(  pound  flour  Y^  pound  brown  sugar 

I  pound  suet  chopped  fine  i  pound  dried  currants 

5  eggs,  salt  ^    pound    mixed    candied 

I  grated  lemon  rind  orange  peel 

This  is  the  plum  pudding  winning  the  two-guinea 
prize  (ten  dollars,  our  money)  offered  by  Queen 
Victoria. 

Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  currants,  stone  the  raisins, 
mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  pour  them  over  the  dry  ingredients  and  thoroughly 
mix.  Put  it  into  your  buttered  mold,  or  your  scalded 
and  floured  bag  (this  will  make  about  six  pounds),  and 
boil  eight  hours  at  the  time  of  making,  and  two  hours 
when  wanted  for  use.  This,  of  course,  can  be  made 
several  weeks  before  Christmas,  as  the  longer  it  stands 
the  better  it  is.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce.  Do  not 
eat  much. 

A  Plain  Steamed  Pudding. 

I  cup  sweet  milk  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  5  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  i  cup  raisins 

I  teaspoon  cloves  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Steam  three  hours.  Seed  and  chop  the  raisins,  sift 
the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  twice  together,  then 
mix,  beat  the  eggs  separately  and  mix  last,  and  put 
over  to  steam  at  once  over  boiling-  water. 


50  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


Steamed  Graham  Pudding. 

2  cups  Graham  flour  i  cup  molasses 

I  cup  sweet  milk  i  teaspoon  soda 

I  cup  raisins  i  &gg 

I  teaspoon  salt  J^  teaspoon  cloves 

i/^  teaspoon  cinnamon         A  little  nutmeg 

Put  the  flour  in  the  dish,  then  add  all  the  other  in- 
gredients, beating  the  soda  well  into  the  molasses. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Flour  the  raisins,  put  the  mixture 
in  a  buttered  pan,  steam  three  hours.  A  very  excel- 
lent pudding.  Home  Messenger. 

A  More  Simple  Graham  Pudding. 

3  cups  Graham  flour  3  cups  corn  meal 
I  quart  milk  i  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Steam  three  hours  in  mold.         Home  Messenger. 

Sweet  Corn  Pudding. 

12  ears  corn  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  sugar  i  tablespoon  butter 
I  quart  rich  milk                    3  eggs,  salt 

Gash  each  row  of  corn  with  a  knife  straight  down; 
then  grate  it,  mix  it  in  the  milk,  rubbing  it  well  to  get 
the  hulls  free  from  the  corn;  then  rub  it  through  a 
fine  seive  to  relieve  it  of  the  hulls.  Work  the  flour 
and  butter  to  a  cream,  then  beat  in  the  sugar  and 
well-beaten  yolks,  then  the  beaten  whites,  then  add 
all  to  the  corn  and  milk,  with  salt.  Bake.  Eat  with 
cream;  sugar  if  liked. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  151 


Boiled  Indian  Pudding. 

I  quart  milk  i  ^  pints  corn  meal 

1  cup  molasses  i  teaspoon  soda 

2  or  3  eggs  Salt 

Put  in  bag;  boil  four  hours. 

Bread  Pudding. 

I  qt.  bread  crumbs  nearly  ^  cup  sugar 

I  quart  sweet  milk  6  eggs,  beat  separately 

I  tablespoon  butter  i  lemon,  salt 

Slice  and  dry  the  bread  in  oven  and  grate  it  or  break 
it  up  and  soak  it  in  milk  and  put  through  sieve. 
Grate  the  rind  of  lemon,  squeeze  the  juice  and  strain. 
Put  all  together.  Save  two  of  the  whites  for  a 
meringue  after  it  is  baked.  Bake  thirty  minutes  or 
more.  Spread  on  a  layer  of  jam,  jelly  or  cocoanut 
and  the  beaten  stiff  whites  of  ^gg,  with  four  table- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar  in  it  and  brown  the  top 
quickly. 

The  Sauce. 

I  cup  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch     i  cup  hot  water 

2  eggs,   a  little  salt  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  wet  the  starch 
with  cold  water;  beat  the  eggs  light;  put  all  together. 
Boil  three  minutes  to  cook  the  starch. 

Lemon    Pudding. 

^  cup  sugar  i  tablespoon  butter 

2  eggs  I  lemon 

Grate    the    lemon,  squeeze    the    juice  and    strain. 
Work  the   butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  well 


152  Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book 

beaten  yolks,  beat  well,  then  add  the  stiff  whites,  last 
of  all  the  lemon  juice  a  few  drops  at  a  time  beating  it 
till  it  becomes  like  thick  cream.  Then  stir  in  slowly 
one  pint  hot  milk.  Bake  as  a  pudding  or  as  a  pie 
with  under  crust.     Serve  with  cream. 

Lemon   Pudding. 

3  tablespoons  corn  starch    3  coffeecups  hot  water 

2  teacups  sugar  2  eggs 

2  large  lemons  i  teaspoon  salt 

Wet  the  starch  thin  with  cold  water,  then  pour 
on  the  three  cups  boiling  water,  and  boil  to  cook  the 
starch,  stirring  all  the  time,  then  add  the  sugar 
and  slowly,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemons. 
Bake  twenty  minutes.  To  be  eaten  cold  with  cream. 
This  makes  two  pies.  Home  Messenger. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. 

6  tablespoons  corn  meal       i  cup  molasses 

1  quart  milk  i  even  teaspoon  soda 
^  pint  cold  water                  i  tablespoon  ginger 

Yz  cup  suet  chopped  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  even  teaspoons  salt  ^  of  a  nutmeg 

3  tablespoons  brown  sugar  4  eggs 

Put  the  milk  over  to  boil,  wet  the  corn  meal  with 
the  cold  water,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  stir  in  the  corn 
meal,  salt  and  suet,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Chop  the  suet  very  fine,  taking  all  the  skin 
off.  Take  it  off  of  the  fire,  put  in  one-half  cup  of  cold 
milk,  the  sugar,  molasses — stir  the  soda  into  the  mo- 
lasses— add  the  spices,  beat  the  j'olks  well  and  beat  in 
lastly  the  stiff  beaten  whites.  Butter  a  two-quart  pan 
and  bake  immediately  over  one   hour.      When  done 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  153 

there  will  be  whey  in  the  center.     Let  it  cool  a  little. 
Serve  with  cream. 


Ground  Rice  Pudding. 

%  pound  rice  flour  3  tablespoons  butter 

2  quarts  milk  ^  cup  sugar 

8  eggs,  salt  i  lemon,  or  essence  lemon 

Wet  the  rice  flour  with  one  pint  of  the  cold  milk, 
add  salt,  and  pour  into  the  three  pints  of  boiling  milk, 
boil  it  five  minutes  to  cook  the  rice,  stirring  well. 
Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  cream,  then  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs  and  stir  it  in  the  rice,  add  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon  or  essence,  as  you  choose; 
the  whites,  last,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  thirty 
minutes.  When  baked,  can  add  a  spread  of  jell  and 
a  meringue  if  you  like.     Cream  sauce. 

Batter  Pudding. 

I  pint  flour  %  cup  sugar 

1  pint  milk  6  eggs,  beaten  separately 

I  even  teaspoon  salt 
Add  a  pint  of  cream  just  before  baking.    Bake  about 
one  hour.     Flavor  the  cream  sauce. 

Cup  Cake  Pudding. 

2  cups  sugar  5  eggs 

I  cup  butter  i  cup  milk 

3^  cups  flour  3  teaspoons  baking* powder 

^  pound  raisins  i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

I    teaspoon  cloves 
Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  well 
beaten  eggs,  beat  in;  pour  on  the  milk  but  do  not  stir 
it  in  till  you  sift  in  half   or  more  of  the  flour  mixed 


154  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

with  baking-powder;  then  add  the  spices  and  rest  of 
flour,  the  seeded  and  chopped  raisins  with  an  extra 
half  cup  of  flour  stirred  on  them.  It  is  nice  without 
raisins.      Serve  with  this 

Vinegar  Sauce. 

6  tablespoons  sugar  4  tablespoons  butter 

10  of  hot  water,  salt  i  tablespoon  corn  starch 

Heat  the  water  and  sugar  very  hot,  stir  in  the  but- 
ter till  melted,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Add  the  starch 
or  flour  as  you  like,  and  two  tablespoons  or  more  of 
vinegar  or  other  flavoring. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

6  tablespoons  tapioca  i  ^  pints  milk 

I  pint  cold  water  3  eggs 

I  small  cup  sugar  i  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  in  two  or  three  waters  the  tapioca  and  soak 
it  five  hours  or  over  night  in  the  pint  of  cold  water,  put 
it  in  heater  (salt  it)  to  keep  quite  warm  till  perfectly  soft, 
then  put  it  in  double  boiler  with  milk,  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoons vanilla,  add  gradually  the  well  beaten  yolks 
and  stir  until  boiling  a  minute,  till  it  thickens  and 
gradually  stir  in  the  well  beaten  whites.  Let  partly 
cool,  then  pour  it  in  glass  dish.  Serve  cold  with  clear 
cream.  A  nice  dessert  to  prepare  on  Saturday  for  a 
Sunday  dinner. 

A  Baked  Tapioca. 

Prepare  it  the  same  way,  only  using  a  quart  of  milk 
and  4  eggs,  do  not  stir  the  eggs  in  till  you  take  it 
off  the  fire;  bake  30  minutes.  Use  two  of  the  whites 
for  a  meringue,  putting  on  a  layer  of  jell  first;  set 
back  in  oven  and  brown. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  155 


Apple  Tapioca  or  Sago. 

This  is  prepared  the  same  way,  only  take  out  the 
cores  and  fill  with  sugar  six  tart  apples  and  bake  well 
done;  then  put  them  in  the  pudding  dish,  and  when 
your  pudding  is  ready  for  baking  pour  it  over  the 
apples  and  bake  30  or  40  minutes.  Serve  with  cream. 
Sago  pudding  is  made  in  the  same  way,  using  sago 
instead  of  tapioca. 

Apple  and  Tapioca  Pudding. 

Prepare  the  boiled  tapioca  or  first  pudding  and  stir 
in  it  one  pint  of  tart  apple  marmalade.  Prepare  and 
stew  tart  tender  apples  with  sufficient  sugar  for  eating, 
rub  through  a  sieve  and  stir  it  in  pudding.  It  is  very 
relishable.      Serve  with  cream. 

Baked  Corn  Meal  Pudding. 

I  quart  milk  3  tablespoons  molasses,   a 

4  tablespoons  corn  meal  little  soda 

3  teaspoons  ginger  3  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

3  tablespoons  suet  Nutmeg  and  salt 

3  eggs 
Wet  the  meal  with  cold  water  so  it  will  pour.  Put 
the  milk  in  spider,  when  it  boils,  stir  in  the  corn  meal, 
suet:  and  salt.  Boil  and  stir  fifteen  minutes,  take  it 
off,  add  all  the  other  ingredients  and  one  cup  of  cold 
milk  and  lastly  eggs  beaten  separately. 

Mrs.  B. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Dissolve  in  one  pint  of  cold  water  one-half  box  of  gel- 
atine, next  add  one  pint  boiling  water,  one  teacup  of 


156  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

sugar,  bring  to  a  boil;  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  or 
essence.  Take  from  the  fire;  add  the  beaten  whites 
of  six  eggs,  beat  well,  just  before  it  sets,  and  put  into 
cups  or  molds.  Set  it  on  ice  or  in  a  cold  place. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  cream,  or  a 
soft  custard.  Mrs.  B. 

Orange  or  Lemon  Snow  Pudding. 

Dissolve  one-fourth  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  three 
tablespoons  of  cold  water,  then  pour  on  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  one  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  four  large 
oranges  or  two  lemons,  strain  and  put  it  on  ice  or  set 
in  very  cold  water  till  it  begins  to  stiffen,  then  add  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stif^;  beat  well  together 
fifteen  minutes;  put  it  into  molds  over  night.  Serve 
cold  with  a  custard  made  of  the  yolks,  or  with  cream,  or 
lemon  sauce.  I  like  it  better  served  on  table  from  a 
glass  dish.  This,  if  good,  all  depends  upon  the  flavor- 
ing and  sweetening. 

Delicious  Steam  Pudding, 

I  half  cup  butter  i  half  cup  sugar 

I  cup  butter  milk  i  egg 

I  teaspoon  soda 
Add  flour  until  stiff  as  cake,  then   a   cup  of  stoned 
raisins  chopped  a  little.      Pour  it  into  a  tin  pudding 
bag  or   a  tin   basin   and  steam   an  hour  and  a  half. 
Serve  with  boiled  sauce. 

Apple  Snow  Balls. 

Take  one  or  two  cups  of  freshly  boiled  rice;  peel  as 
many  tart  apples  as  there  are  persons;  core,  but  do 
not  go  through  the  stem  end,  fill  with  sugar  and  grate 
on  nutmeg.      The  rice  must  be  cool  and  stiff  enough  to 


TJic  Oiiccii  Cook  Book  157 

handle.  Take  enough  rice  in  your  hand  and  make  a 
hollow  in  it,  place  an  apple  in  it,  having  the  rice  a 
good  half-inch  thick  all  around  the  apple;  set  each 
ball  in  a  cloth  large  enough  to  cover  and  tie  up.  Set 
them  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water.  Steam  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour  and  eat  as  soon  as  cooked.  These 
are  nice  to  eat  with  roast  duck  or  goose,  or  with  the 
following  sauce  as  dessert:  Braid  together  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sugar  and  one  tablespoon 
flour;  pour  over  it,  slowly  stirring,  one-half  pint  boiling 
water,  and  grate  in  nutmeg,  boil  a  minute  to  cook  the 
flour.     Can  double  this  quantity. 

Peach  Balls. 

For  a  dozen  peach  balls  pick  over  a  cup  of  rice, 
wash  it  in  cold  water  till  you  have  poured  off  all  the 
specks,  then  in  double  boiler  add  a  quart  of  water  or 
milk,  a  heaping  teaspoon  salt,  cook  till  soft,  then  stir 
in  four  tablespoons  white  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  two 
or  three  raw  eggs,  and  nutmeg;  stir  together  over  a 
moderate  fire  until  the  yolks  begin  to  thicken;  if  the 
heat  is  too  intense,  the  yolks  will  curdle.  As  soon  as 
the  yolks  thicken  remove  the  rice  from  the  lire  and  let 
it  cool  sufficiently  to  handle,  then  heat  in  the  spider 
half  lard  and  half  suet,  as  you  would  for  fried  cakes. 
Let  this  fat  get  boiling  hot,  but  not  burning  hot. 
Have  ready  a  plate  of  rolled  cracker  and  two  well 
beaten  eggs;  wet  the  hands  in  cold  water,  put  a  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  tlie  well  boiled  rice  in  the  palm  of 
the  left  hand,  and  hollow  it  until  it  is  about  half  an 
inch  thick,  into  this  hollow  lay  two  halfs  of  a  fresh 
peach  or  canned  peaches  or  other  fruit  as  you  like. 
Inclose  the  rice  around  it,  adding  more  if  necessary, 
being    careful  to  have  the  rice  half  an  inch  thick  all 


158  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

around  the  fruit.  The  rice  must  be  the  right  softness 
and  stiffness  to  cling  together.  Roll  each  of  the  balls 
in  the  eggs,  then  in  the  cracker  crumbs,  put  them  in  the 
smoking  hot  fat  and  fry  them  a  golden  brown,  as  fast 
as  they  brown  turn  them  and  drain  them  in  a  skim- 
mer, and  lay  them  for  a  moment  on  brown  paper  to 
drip,  serve  them  in  covered  hot  dish;  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  or  with  sweetened  cream,  flavored  as 
you  like. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

Grate  one  and  one-half  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
not  sweet,  wet  it  with  a  little  warm  milk,  then  stir  it 
into  one  quart  of  boiling  hot  milk,  in  double  boiler; 
when  cooled  a  little,  beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and 
add  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  set  it 
on  stove  again  (but  do  not  boil  it  as  it  will  turn  to 
whey)  till  like  custard,  put  it  in  a  pudding  dish.  Can 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  sift  in  six  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  and  pile 
it  lightly  on  top.  Put  it  in  oven  just  to  brown  the 
top. 

Easter  Pudding. 

I  quart  milk  2  tablespoons  corn  starch 

4  eggs  I  even  teaspoon  salt 

Place  the  milk  in  double  boiler,  when  it  boils  stir  in 
two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  wet  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  stir  con- 
stantly for  five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add 
a  little  salt,  and  the  well  beaten  w^iites,  stir  briskly 
for  two  minutes  and  pour  it  in  a  buttered  pudding 
dish  (fit  for  the  table).  Spread  a  layer  of  jam  or  jelly 
on  top  and   then  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  159 

two  eggs  ana  three  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar 
and  bake  lightly  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with 
sweetened  cream  and  nutmeg. 

Plain  Boiled  Rice. 
For  a  family  of  four,  one  small  teacup  of  rice,  well 
washed,  boiled  in  one  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  with 
one  teaspoon  of  salt;  boil  one  hour  and  thirty  min- 
utes. Serve  with  a  sauce  or  sweetened  cream  and 
nutmeg.  There  v/ill  be  enough  left  to  make  a  rice 
pudding  for  the  next  day. 

Rice  Pudding. 
Take  two  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice  and  put  it  in  nearly 
one  quart  of  hot  milk,  take  your  clean  washed  right 
hand  and  mash  it  fine;  add  an  even  teaspoon  of  salt, 
three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  beaten  eggs,  and  nut- 
meg.     Bake  thirty  minutes. 

Frozen  Pudding. 
The  scraps  of  stale  cake,  enough  milk  to  moisten 
them;  beat  four  eggs  with  a  quart  of  milk,  and  stir 
them  over  the  fire  in  double  boiler  until  they  begin  to 
thicken;  then  remove,  and  beat  the  stale  cake  into  the 
custard,  about  two  cups  to  each  quart.  If  you  like 
add  a  cup  of  fresh  fruit  or  canned  to  each  quart.  Add 
enough  cream  or  milk  to  make  it  semi-liquid.  Make 
it  over-sweet,  as  it  looses  by  freezing;  then  freeze  like 
ice  cream  and  serve  it  in  the  same  way. 

Pudding  Sauce  No.  4. 
I  cup  sugar  Yi  cup  butter 

I  ^gg,  beaten  i  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  all 
together,  beat  well  and  set  it  in  hot  water  and  moder- 
ately heat  it  through,  stirring  all  the  time. 


i6o  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


CocoANUT  Corn  Starch  Pudding. 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  in  double  boiler.  Wet  four 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch  with  a  little  cold  milk;  as 
soon  as  the  milk  boils  stir  in  the  corn  starch  and  boil 
five  minutes,  a  little  salt,  add  the  well  beaten  whites 
of  lour  eggs,  six  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of 
grated  cocoanut.  Turn  into  a  mold.  Serve  with  a 
boiled  custard  made  of  the  yolks,  and  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  milk. 

Cocoanut  Rice. 

I  quart  milk  i  teacup  rice 

y2  grated  cocoanut  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  sugar  in  cocoanut       2  eggs,  the  whites  only 

Put  into  a  double  boiler  the  milk,  well  washed  rice 
and  salt,  boil  it  one  hour  and  a  half,  sweeten  it  with 
three  tablespoons  of  sugar  if  you  like;  put  it  in  a  dish 
for  the  table,  (or  in  cups  set  in  water)  grate  the 
cocoanut,  stir  m  the  cup  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  eggs, 
beat  well  and  spread  it  upon  the  rice,  set  in  oven  to 
brown,  eat  with  cream,  or  stir  all  the  top  in  the  rice; 
try  both. 

Poor  Man's  Pudding, 

I  cup  molasses  i  cup  beef  suet  chopped 

I  even  teaspoon  soda  ^  cup  sweet  milk 

I  J^  cups  flour  I  teaspoon  salt 

Chop  the  suet  fine,  have  all  things  measured,  then 
dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  boiling  water  and  beat  it 
well  into  the  molasses,  and  mix  while  foaming  having 
one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  the  flour.  Put  in 
pan  or  pudding  bag,  steam  or  boil  two  hours. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  i6i 


Puff  Gems  for  Tea. 

6  eggs,  a  little  salt  6  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

I  quart  milk  i  teaspoon,  heaping,  butter 

Stir  the  beaten  yolks  into  the  milk,  stir  it  gradually 
into  the  flour  and  softened  butter,  beating  it  five  min- 
utes, then  quickly  add  the  stiff  beaten  whites.  Bake 
in  little  cups  or  gem  pans,  well  buttered,  in  a  quick 
oven  for  twenty  minutes  or  thirty. 

German  Puffs. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  i  pint  milk 

I  pint  flour  i  even  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  milk  and  flour  for  eight  minutes;  bake  in 
gem  pans  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  hot  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce:  Beat  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
half  a  cup  of  butter;  add  gradually  four  tablespoons 
of  cream  and  flavoring.  Set  it  in  hot  water  and  beat 
smooth  for  a  minute  or  two,  but  do  not  melt  it. 

Lemon  Puff, 

4  eggs,  Yz  teaspoon  salt       4  tablespoons  sugar 
3  tablespoons  milk  4  tablespoons  flour 

Beat  the  eggs  separately,  stir  until  very  smooth, 
then  add  the  grated  rind  and  strained  juice  of  a  lemon 
and  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  in  a  buttered  dish  or 
gems  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.      Serve  hot. 

Lemon  Meringues. 

lYz  tablesp'ns  corn  starch   i  J^  pints  boiling  water 
Yolks  of  3  eggs  I  coffee  cup  sugar 

3  lemons,  the  juice  i  even  teaspoon  salt 

Put  the  water  in  double  boiler;  when  boihng  hot 


1 62  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

wet  the  corn  starch  with  a  httle  cold  water  and  stir  in 
for  five  minutes  with  the  salt.  When  it  is  cold  add 
the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  Bake  in  pudding-dish, 
cups  or  gem  pans.  If  you  wish  it  to  look  extra  nice 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  beaten  stif^ 
and  sweetened. 

Cream  Puffs. 

I  cup  hot  water  ^  cup  butter 

I  cup  sifted  dour  3  unbeaten  eggs 

Stir  the  butter  in  the  boiling  water;  while  boiling 
stir  in  the  flour  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste;  after  this 
cools  stir  three  unbeaten  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Stir  five 
minutes.  Drop  in  tablespoons  on  a  buttered  tin  two 
inches  apart.  When  light  they  should  not  touch  each 
other,  and  do  not  open  the  oven  door  more  than  is 
necessary.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty-five  min- 
utes.     For  the  filling: 

I  cup  milk  Yz  cup  sugar 

I  tablespoon  corn  starch      2  eggs,  little  salt 

Put  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  wet  the  corn  starch 
in  a  little  cold  milk;  when  the  milk  is  hot,  after  beat- 
ing all  the  ingredients  well  together,  cook  until  like  a 
custard;  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  both  this  and  the 
puffs  are  cool,  open  one  side  of  the  puffs  and  fill  with 
cream.     This  makes  one  dozen. 

Custard  Souffle. 

Rub  two  scant  tablespoons  of  butter  and  one  and 
a  half  of  flour  to  a  cream,  with  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  pour  on  gradually  one  cup  of  hot  milk. 
Cook  five  minutes  in  double  boiler,  stirring  all  the 
time.      Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  three  eggs, 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  163 

beat  them  separately;  add  the  whites  last,  and  bake 
about  thirty  minutes,  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  serve  at  once  with  this  creamy 
sauce: 

Creamy  Sauce. 

Cream  together  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and 
five  of  powdered  sugar  until  a  perfect  cream.  Stir 
constantly  as  you  slowly  add  what  flavoring  you  wish, 
either  lemon  extract  or  orange  peel,  or  nutmeg,  with 
two-thirds  of  a  teacup  of  cream.  When  ready  to  serve 
set  the  dish  in  hot  water  and  beat  smooth,  but  do  not 
melt  the  butter. 


PUDDING  SAUCES 


Foaming  Sauce, 


I  cup  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

y^  cup  cold  water  i  tablespoon  vanilla 

And  two  tablespoons  orange  flower  water  or  lemon 
juice,  or  one  of  mace  compound.  Beat  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  flavoring  and  water,  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  stirring  all  the  time.  It  will  become 
very  light.  Place  it  in  a  double  boiler  on  the  back  of 
the  stove;  let  it  simmer  for  one  hour,  but  it  must  not 
boil.  Do  not  stir  it  until  you  are  ready  to  serve,  then 
give  a  good  stir  and  serve.  This  is  the  most  delicious 
sauce  for  all  kinds  of  boiled  and  steamed  puddings. 


164  The  Qiiccii  Cook  Book 


Bath  Lemon  Sauce. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  stirred  to  a  light 
cream;  beat  well  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  mix  well, 
then  beat  in  gradually  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  strained,  then  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Very  nice  for  batter  pudding 
when  you  have  no  cream.  Home  Messenger. 

Fairy  or  Nun's  Butter. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  stirred  to  a 
cream.  Grate  in  nutmeg  and  on  top;  or  add  a  well 
beaten  Q^g,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  (a  wine  glass  of 
brandy  improves  the  flavor). 

Strawberry  Sauce. 

One  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar  stirred  to  a 
cream,  then  add  a  cup  of  crushed  strawberries.  This 
can  only  be  made  in  strawberry  time. 

Cream  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter 
stirred  to  a  cream.  Take  one  pint  of  rich  sweet  cream 
(very  cold)  whipped  to  a  froth,  beat  all  well  together. 
Flavor  with  extract  of  nectarine  or  vanilla. 

A  Pudding  Sauce. 

One-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  as  much 
butter  stirred  to  a  cream,  with  one  even  tablespoon  of 
flour,  then  pour  on  gradually  one  teacup  of  boiling  water 
and  flavoring,  then  set  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water, 
stirring  it  constantly  to  cook  the  flour. 


TJic  Qiiccii  Cook  Book  165 


A  Creamy  Pudding  Sauce  Without  Cream. 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

2  tablespoons  water  i  teaspoonful  extract   nec- 
I  orange  tarine 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  powdered  sugar 
graduall}',  then  slowly  the  juice  of  one  orange,  then 
place  your  dish  in  boiling  water  and  stir  for  two 
minutes;  it  should  be  light  and  creamy. 

Puff    Pudding. 

Take     six    eggs    and    drop  them  into    six    table- 
spoons of  milk,  add  six  tablespoons  of    sifted    flour, 
beat    well    into  a  batter  (say  fifteen    minutes).      Put, 
them  in  buttered  cups;  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven,  turn 
them  out  and  eat  with  sweet  sauce. 

A  Steam  Batter  Pudding. 

I  cup  sour  milk  ^  cup  sugar 

I  teaspoon  soda  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

Stir  up  quickly,  add  one  teaspoon  salt  and  flour 
enough  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  cake,  then  stir  in  fruit 
or  berries,  put  it  in  a  buttered  two  quart  basin; 
steam  two  hours.  Do  not  uncover  nor  let  the  cold 
air  blow  on  it,  keeping  a  supply  of  boiling  water  to  re- 
plenish.     It  must  not  cease  to  boil. 

Lemon  Sauce. 

Boil  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  in  two  cups  of 
hot  water;  wet  a  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  in  cold 
water  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  In  all 
these  recipes  you  can  double  or  treble  them,  or  use 
one-half  the  quantity  as  desired. 


1 66  TJlc  Ouccn  Cook  Book 


CREAMS. 


Italian  Cream. 

I  quart  milk  A  little  salt 

I  pint  rich  cream  Flavor  with   lemon  or  va- 

Yl  cup  sugar  nilla. 

Yz  box  gelatine 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  some  of  the  milk,  then  bring  the 
milk  to  a  boil  in  double  boiler  and  add  all  the  ingredi- 
ents except  the  cream,  set  it  in  the  coldest  place  till  it 
shows  signs  of  beginning  to  stiffen;  then  sweeten  and 
whip  the  cream,  stir  in  quickly  and  put  in  a  mold  on 
ice.      Very  nice. 

Strawberry  Cream. 

I  quart  strawberries  i  coffee  cup  sugar 

Yi  box  gelatine  i  pint  sweet  cream 

Pick  over  the  berries  and  wash  and  drain,  then 
mash  in  earthen  dish  with  silver  spoon,  add  the  sugar 
and  set  away  for  half  an  hour;  then  soak  the  gelatine 
with  a  little  water  till  dissolved;  strain  the  berries 
through  a  sieve  or  colander,  add  the  gelatine  to  the 
berries,  set  the  dish  in  a  basin  of  very  cold  water  or  a 
pan  of  pounded  ice,  stir  until  it  thickens,  then  beat  in 
the  whipped  cream;  pour  into  mold  and  set  on  ice 
over  night  is  best.      Serve  with  cream. 

Lemon  Sno\v. 

Take  one-half>box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  just  cover  with 
cold  water,  set  it  in  warm  place  till  dissolved,  then 
pour  on  it  one  quart  of  boiling  water  (in  hot  weather 
one  pint  and  a   half  of  water);  when   dissolved   add 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  167 

two  cups  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  two  or  three 
lemons;  according  to  size;  strain,  set  away  in  cold 
water  or  on  ice  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  with  the  dish  on  ice 
continue  to  beat  for  fifteen  minutes  or  until  white  as 
snow;  turn  into  a  mold  or  on  ice.  All  gelatines  are 
firmer  to  be  made  over  night.     Very  nice. 

Whipped  Cream. 

Allow  one  quart  of  thick  sweet  cream  for  one  dozen 
persons,  set  in  a  pan  of  broken  ice  until  very  cold, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  flavor,  then  beat  with  a  cream 
whisk,  take  off  the  top  as  it  stiffens  into  froth  and  beat 
again  and  so  on  till  it  is  all  beaten;  one-half  pound  sugar, 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Serve  in  sherbet  glasses.  It  will 
whisk  better  if  you  add  a  half  cup  of  milk  to  the  thick 
cream.  It  is  very  nice  served  on  top  of  grated  cocoa- 
nut. 

Coffee  Cream. 

This  is  an  inexpensive  dessert.  Soak  half  a  box  of 
Cox's  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  cold  water,  till  dissolved. 
Wet  half  of  a  large  coffee  cup  of  Java  coffee  with  cold 
water,  then  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  let 
stand  on  hot  stove  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  one  cup  of 
sugar,  let  dissolve,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Strain  through  a  cloth.  Set  over  the  fire  and  stir  until 
it  begins  to  be  creamy.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the 
■gelatine,  stir  well,  set  in  a  cool  place,  when  it  begins 
to  get  stiff,  stir  into  it  one  pint  of  whipped  cream,  beat 
well,  pour  into  a  mold.     Serve  cold. 


1 68  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 


Spanish  Cream. 


Yz  box  gelatine  2)^  pints  milk 

6  eggs  8  tablespoons  sugar 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  bring 
the  milk  to  a  boil,  add  the  sugar  and  gelatine  and  the 
well  beaten  yolks,  let  it  simmer  until  it  begins  to  thicken 
a  h'ttle  but  not  boil;  take  from  the  stove,  then  beat  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  va- 
nilla. 

Chocolate  Cream. 

^  box  gelatine  ^  cup  sugar 

I  ^  pint  milk  2  oz.  grated  chocolate 

I  pint  whipped  cream  A  little  salt 

Dissolve  the  gelatine,  bring  the  milk  to  a  boil,  add 
all  but  the  cream,  then  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well 
beaten,  heat  till  it  thickens  a  little,  then  cool  and  set 
it  on  ice  then  beat  in  the  whipped  cream.  Put  it  in 
mold  and  let  stand  over  night,  on  ice  in  hot  weather. 
Serve  with  cream. 


CUSTARDS. 


Fluff, 


I  pint  milk  i  tablespoon  corn  starch 

y^  cup  white  sugar  3  eggs,  the  whites 

I  lemon  or  essence  ^  even  teaspoon  salt 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  double  boiler.  Wet  the  corn 
starch  in  quarter  cup  of  cold  milk,  add  salt  and  stir  it 
into  the  hot  milk,  let  it  slowly  boil  for  six  minutes 
stirring  often,  adding  sugar;  take  it  from  stove  and  stir 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book  169 

in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  flavoring. 
Turn  into  a  mold,  wet  with  cold  water;  let  stand  some 
hours  in  a  cold  place,  over  night  is  better.  Serve  it 
with  cream  or  a  thin  custard  made  of  the  yolks. 

Floating  Island. 

Bring  to  a  boil  one  quart  of  new  milk,  beat  stiff  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  sweetened,  take  up  a  large  spoon- 
ful at  a  time,  and  lay  on  the  hot  milk  for  one  minute 
as  fast  as  you  can  till  all  is  scalded,  or  put  it  all  on  as 
one  island,  take  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  and  set  in 
the  cold.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  yolks  and  four 
tablespoons  of  sugar  well  beaten,  a  little  salt,  as  it  be- 
gins to  thicken  take  off  and  strain  through  coarse 
sieve  if  it  is  not  smooth.  Put  it  in  a  cold  place,  when 
ready  to  use,  place  the  custard,  flavored,  in  the  dish, 
the  float  on  top,  dot  it  with  bits  of  jell.  This  can  be 
made  in  the  forenoon  for  supper.  It  needs  an  open 
pan  or  spider  to  cook  it  in.  If  you  drop  it  in  spoon- 
fuls you  can  put  it  in  custard  or  lemonade  glasses, 
placing  a  little  jell  at  the  bottom  and  another  on  top. 

Baked  Custard. 

I  quart  milk  ^  cup  sugar 

4  eggs  Flavor  to  taste,  salt 

Heat  a  quart  of  milk  hot  in  a  double  boiler  that  it 
may  not  whey  when  boiled,  let  it  stand  till  cold. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar,  stir  in  with  salt  and  flavor- 
ing, put  it  in  basin,  set  in  baking  pan  of  water,  in 
oven,  cover  till  nearly  done  then  take  off  and  brown. 
When  the  center  is  thickened  like  jelly  and  shakes  it 
is  done.  Watch  it  closely,  as  one  minute  too  long 
will  turn  to  whe}',  and  the  least  bit  of  that  destroys 
the  beauty  of  the  custard. 


1 70  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


Boiled   Custard. 

Prepare  the  same  as  above,  using  five  eggs  instead 
of  four,  and  cook  in  double  boiler,  taking  it  off  as  soon 
as  it  clings  to  the  spoon,  stirring  it  often;  if  you  wish, 
can  put  it  in  custard  cups,  with  a  meringue  on  top  and 

jell. 

Orange  Custard. 

Soak  two  cups  of  baker's  stale  or  dried  bread,  dried  in 
oven  and  grated,  in  a  pint  of  cold  milk.  When  it  is 
soft,  beat  it  smooth,  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
three  oranges,  and  sugar  according  to  the  acid  of  the 
oranges;  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs;  then  the 
well  beaten  v\'hites,  set  the  cups  in  pan  of  hot  water, 
cover  till  hot  and  bake  till  it  thickens  in  middle,  be 
careful  and  take  it  out  before  it  turns  to  whey. 

CocoANUT  Custard. 

To  one  pound  of  freshly  grated  cocoanut  allow  one 
quart  of  scalded  milk  in  double  boiler  and  one  heap- 
ing teacup  of  sugar.  Beat  well  the  yolks  of  six  eggs 
and  stir  in  alternately  in  the  milk  with  the  cocoanut 
and  sugar.  If  you  like  it  light  colored,  use  the  whites 
instead  of  yolks,  or  beat  stiff,  sweeten  and  drop  on  top 
of  cups.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken  set  off  of 
stove. 

Chocolate  Custard. 

Make  one  quart  of  boiled  custard,  adding  four  table- 
spoons of  grated  Baker's  chocolate,  take  off  the 
minute  it  thickens,  just  to  boiling  point. 


The  Qucoi  Cook  Book  171 


Lemon  Custard.     (May  keep  three  days.) 

Two  lemons,  the  rinds  and  juice,  strained  and 
sweetened  to  taste,  beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  till 
very  light,  stir  this  all  into  one  pint  and  a  half  of 
water  that  has  been  boiled,  stir  it  on  the  fire  (adding 
one  teaspoon  cornstarch),  take  it  off  as  soon  as  it  be- 
gins to  thicken.  Can  add  almond  or  nectarine  Havor- 
ing;  put  in  cups,  eat  cold. 

Peach  Meringue. 

Put  on  in  a  double  boiler  one  quart  of  new  milk; 
take  out  enough  of  it  to  wet  two  tablespoons  of  corn 
starch;  when  the  milk  boils  stir  in  the  starch  till 
cooked;  remove  from  the  lire  and  stir  in  one  table- 
spoon sweet  butter;  let  it  cool  a  little  and  add  the 
well  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs;  beat  till  light  and 
creamy;  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  Cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  buttered  pudding-dish  with  two  layers  of  cut 
up  ripe  peaches;  sprinkle  sugar  enough  to  sweeten 
and  pour  the  custard  on  top.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
twenty  minutes.  When  done  cover  with  the  well- 
beaten  whites  sweetened;  brown  lightly  in  oven.  Eat 
warm  with  sauce  or  cold  with  cream.  I  think  it 
nice  cold  without  baking  if  it  is  brought  to  a  boil  after 
the  yolks  are  in. 

American  Cream  for  Dessert. 

yi  box  Cox's  gelatine  i  quart  milk 

6  tablespoons  sugar  4  eggs 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  some  of  the  milk,  add  it  to  the 
rest  in  a  double  boiler  with  the  well-beaten  yolks 
with  four  tablespoons  of  the  sugar.       Put  on  the  stove 


172  The  Queen  Ccok  Book 

and  heat  again  (but  not  boil);  take  off  the  stove,  add 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  the  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  and  pour  in 
molds. 

Fresh-Made  Jelly  and  Whipped  Cream. 

2  quarts  berries  ^^  box  gelatine 

2  cups  sugar  ^  pint  cream 

Take  strawberries  or  raspberries;  put  in  granite 
kettle  with  just  water  enough  to  not  quite  cover;  cook 
till  soft,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag;  add  the  sugar  and 
enough  boilnig  water  to  make  the  quantity  one  quart. 
Let  it  boil  up,  add  the  gelatine  soaked  in  half  a  pint 
of  water.  Strain  and  pour  in  cups.  Put  the  whipped 
cream  on  top  before  serving. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange. 

I  quart  milk,  salt  i  Y^  squares  chocolate 

4  tablespoons  sugar  4  tablespoons  corn  starch 

Use  Baker's  chocolate.  Place  the  milk  in  double 
boiler;  when  it  boils  add  all  the  ingredients,  stirring 
well  as  it  boils  for  eight  minutes.  Flavor  with  van- 
illa. Wet  the  molds  with  cold  water  before  filling. 
Serve  with  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Blanc  Mange. 

I  quart  cream  ^  box  gelatine 

4  oz.  sweet  almonds  ^  ounce  bitter  almonds 

3/(  cup  sugar 
Crack  the  almonds  take  out  the  meats,  pour  boiling 
water    on    them    and    skin    them,    pound   them   in    a 
wedgewood  mortar,   moistening  them  gradually  with 
orange-flower   water;    mix    this    with    the    cream    in 


TJic  Onccn  Cook  Book  173 

double  boiler.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  half  cup  of 
cold  water.  When  the  cream  comes  to  a  scald  stir 
in  slowly  all  the  ingredients;  just  let  it  come  to  a  boil 
stirring  constantly.  Put  it  in  molds.  Stand  on  ice 
over  night.  Serve  with  cream.  A  plainer  but  nice 
blanc  mange  can  be  made  with  milk  and  almond  ex- 
tract or  vanilla.  Put  it  upon  the  ice  and  when  about 
to  thicken,  stir  it  until  it  is  very  smooth;  then  stir  in 
lightly  a  pint  of  cream,  whipped,  and  put  into  a 
mold.  I  prefer  putting  it  in  a  glass  dish  ready  for 
the  table,  as  the  cream  is  on  top;  it  is  more  relishable 
and  looks  better. 


THE  ORANGE. 

How  true  it  is  with  fruits,  as  well  as  metals,  that 
the  laws  which  govern  supply  and  demand  are  quickly 
adjusted.  No  sooner  was  it  realized  that  fresh  fruits 
and  vegetables  were  as  necessary  for  health  as  animal 
food,  then  our  most  enterprising  growers  set  them- 
selves not  only  to  increase  the  quantity,  but  to  im- 
prove the  varieties  and  preserve  them  for  tlie  longest 
time  possible  in  their  natural  state.  In  the  month  of 
January,  before  home  grown  fruits  have  become  scarce 
and  high  priced,  Florida  oranges  are  at  our  door, 
cheap  enough  that  all  may  indulge  in  some  of  these 
well  tested  recipes  on  the  delicious  fruit. 

Orange  Shortcake. 

1  pint  iiour  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder  Yz  teaspoon  salt 
I  cup  milk  I  Qgg  beaten 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking-powder  twice,  rub  the 
butter  in  flour,  mix  soft  as  you  can  handle, roll  out  in  two 


174  TJic  Oiiccn  Cook  Book 

cakes  long  for  a  long  square  tin;  just  butter  the  under 
one  and  lay  one  on  top  of  the  other;  mark  the  top  one 
with  a  fork.  Stand  in  a  cold  place  or  in  ice-box 
fifteen  minutes,  then  bake  in  hot  oven  about  thirty 
minutes,  then  take  out  of  oven,  let  stand  three 
minutes,  then  separate  the  two  layers,  butter  the  two 
insides,  as  for  eating.  Before  making  the  cake,  peel 
five  or  six  sweet  oranges  and  cut  in  small  pieces 
around  the  core,  taking  out  the  seeds,  let  stand  till 
cake  is  in  the  oven,  then  drain  off  the  juice  and  sprinkle 
a  cup  or  more  of  sugar  on  them;  spread  between  the 
layers  and  set  in  oven  three  to  four  minutes.  Do  all 
this  quickly  and  serve  immediately. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Sauce. 
If  one  wishes  a  sauce  for  it  (I  do  not),  cream  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter,  or  that  proportion, 
add  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  or  orange,  one  beaten 
e-^g;  beat  it  well;  set  the  bowl  over  hot  tea  kettle, 
where  it  will  become  hot,  but  not  boil,  beating  con- 
stantly. Before  serving  add  the  juice  that  came  from 
the  oranges,  or  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. 
This  is  made  the  same  way  as  the  orange  shortcake. 
Wash  the  strawberries,  pick  them  over  (all  berries 
need  washing  quickly);  put  the  sugar  on  them  just  as 
the  cake  is  done,  and  half  chop  them  a  little  with  the 
spoon.  Some  like  a  layer  of  strawberries  on  top  of 
cake  also.  We  prefer  a  dish  of  berries  and  sugar  for 
each  one.  Mrs.  B. 

Orange  Jelly. 
Put  one  pint  of  cold  water  on  one-half  box  of  Cox's 
gelatine;  soak  until   dissolved;  add  two  cups  of  sugar, 


Till'  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book  175 

the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  orange,  strained,  one 
pint  of  boihng  water;  let  conic  to  a  boil,  set  away  to 
cool;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  pour  it  over  eight 
oranges  sliced  by  cutting  around  the  core  and  taking 
out  the  seeds,  and  sprinkle  well  with  sugar  in  dish 
for  table;  put  it  in  ice-box  to  harden.  ]\[rs.  B. 

Orange  Jelly  No.  2. 

To  half  a  cup  of  cold  water  put  half  a  box  of  gela- 
tine, set  in  a  warm  place  till  dissolved,  then  pour  over 
it  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Put  half  a  cup  of  granulated 
sugar  on  the  board  and  roll  a  large  lemon  in  it  until 
the  oil  is  extracted  from  the  rind.  To  a  pint  of  the 
juice  of  sour  oranges  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  the  half  cup  flavored  with  the  oil  of 
the  lemon.  Add  all  to  the  gelatine;  stir  well;  strain 
into  wet  molds  or  a  flat  dish,  and  cut  it  out  in  small 
blocks  when  solid.  Other  ways  of  serving  are  to  cut 
the  oranges  in  half,  take  out  the  fruit  carefull}',  and 
drop  the  skins  in  cold  water.  When  the  jelly  is  made 
dry  these  inside,  notch  the  edges  prettily,  fill  with 
the  jelly  and  set  on  ice  or  in  a  cold  place;  or  the 
oranges  may  be  cut  so  as  to  leave  half,  and  a  half-inch 
strip  over  the  top  for  the  handle,  notchmg  the  edges. 
Place  the  baskets  in  a  pan  of  chopped  ice,  fill  with  the 
jelly,  and  put  a  teaspoon  of  whipped  cream  on  top  of 
the  jelly. 

Meringues. 

4  eggs,  the  whites  9  heaping  tablespoons  sugar 

Beat  the  eggs  very  stiff,  add  gradually  the  powdered 
sugar  till  stiff  enough  to  lie  in  oblong  shape  on  paper. 
Butter  white  foolscap  paper,  lay  it  on  bottom  of  drip- 
ping pan  and  drop  the  mixture  on  the  paper,  by  table- 


176  Tlic  0  It  ecu  Cook  Book 

spoonfuls,  allowinj^f  two  inches  between  each,  they 
must  not  run  together.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Bake 
or  dry  in  a  slow  steady  oven  to  a  delicate  tinge  of 
brown.  Place  the  fiat  sides  together,  when  dry,  with 
sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  cream. 

Golden  Meringues. 

Made  the  same  way  as  the  previous  recipe,  only 
using  the  yolks  and  the  white  of  one  q^'^!^.  The  yolks 
will  not  beat  stiff  but  they  will  beat  very  light.  They 
must  be  stiff  enough  to  drop. 

Almond  Maccaroons. 

Shell  half  a  pound  of  soft-shelled  almonds,  pour 
boihng  water  over  them  until  the  skins  are  loose,  peel 
and  throw  into  cold  w^ater,  take  out,  drain  in  dry 
towel,  pound  to  a  paste  in  marble  or  some  hard  mor- 
tar, put  in  a  dish  and  gradually  add  one  pound  of  pul- 
verized sugar,  and  the  whites  of  three  stiffly  beaten 
eggs,  and  two  teaspoons  of  extract  of  lemon.  Mix  well 
with  a  mixed  metal  spoon  (not  iron  spoon).  Wet  the 
hands  in  cold  water  and  make  the  mixture  quickly  and 
deftly  into  balls  the  size  of  a  small  hickory  nut,  put 
sheets  of  buttered  paper  in  sheet  iron  pans,  lay  the 
balls  on  the  paper  two  inches  apart,  wet  the  hands 
and  smooth  over  the  top  so  they  are  glossy,  set  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour  till 
dry. 

Lemon  Sauce. 
Yz  cup  sugar  i  tablespoon  butter 

I  tablespoon  corn  starch      1  pint  boiling  water 
I  lemon,  rind  and  juice        i  &gg,   salt 

Beat  the  ^gg  separately,  stir  the  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream,  boil  the  water  in   double   boiler,  w^et  the 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  177 

starch  in  cold  water,  put  it  in  the  boiler  and  boil  ten 
minutes,  beating  all  the  time  till  smooth,  now  add  all 
together,  take  off  the  stove,  add  the  rind  and  strained 
juice  of  lemon. 

Orange  Sauce. 

This  is  made  the  same  way  as  the  above  recipe, 
using  the  juice,  strained,  of  two  oranges,  and  the  grated 
rind  of  one. 

Hickory  Nut  Maccaroons. 

These  are  made  the  same  wa}-  as  the  almond  macca- 
roons, taking  off  what  skins  you  can,  chopping  the 
meats  line  and  mashing  in  mortar. 


CANDY. 

Molasses  Candy. 

I  cup  N.  O.  molasses  i  cup  brown  sugar 

I  tablespoon  butter  i  tablespoon  vinegar 

When  warm,  stir  the  ingredients  together,  let  boil 
till  brittle,  but  do  not  stir  it.  Be  careful  not  to  burn; 
it  must  slowly  boil.  Test  it  by  dropping  a  little  in 
water.  When  brittle,  pour  out  on  a  greased  platter, 
turn  up  the  edges  as  it  cools,  butter  your  hands  and 
work  by  pulling  long  lengths  until  a  bright  and  golden 
color.  Butter  the  fingers  when  it  sticks  to  them,  draw 
it  into  stick  size.  When  cold,  cut  it  in  lengths  you 
like,  flavor  with  what  you  like,  or  put  different  kinds 
of  nuts  in  different  dishes,  chopped  fine;  stir  them  in. 


178  TJic  Qiicoi  Cook  Book 


Candy  of  Any  Flavor. 

3  ^  pounds  best  sugar  i  yi  pints  water 

I  teaspoon  cream  tartar 
Boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  test  it  by  dropping  a  little 
in  cold  water;  if  the  threads  are  brittle  as  you  pull  it, 
it  is  done;  then  flavor  differently,  or  put  nuts,  choco- 
late, cocoanut,  or  whatever  kind  of  candy  you  wish  to 
make,  by  stirring  them  in,  in  different  dishes.  Add 
the  cream  tartar  just  before  you  take  it  up. 

Ice  Cream  Candy. 

3  pounds  best  coffee  sugar  %^  pound  butter 
I  teaspoon  cream  tartar  2  teaspoons  extract  lemon 
Add  just  water  enough  to  melt  the  sugar.  Boil 
without  stirring,  till  it  is  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold 
water;  then  it  is  done;  add  the  lemon  and  cream 
tartar,  then  pour  it  into  as  many  buttered  plates  as 
there  are  pullers.  Pull  when  partly  cold  till  ver3Mvhite 
and  creamy. 


SHERBETS. 


Peach  Sherbet. 


I  quart  peaches  chopped     i  quart,-  heaping,  of  sugar, 
fine  4  tablespoons  gelatine 

2  quarts  water  boiled 
Soak  the  gelatine,  then  pour  the  boiling  water 
onto  the  sugar  and  gelatine,  add  the  peaches  and  set 
to  cool,  then  pack  to  freeze,  when  partly  frozen  add 
one  quart  of  whipped  cream  sweetened.  Pineap- 
ple can  be  frozen  in  the  same  way.  Freeze  the  same 
as  ice  cream.  Mrs.  B. 


TJlc  Queen  Cook  Book  179 


Orange   Sherbet. 

Soak  one  tablespoon  of  gelatine  in  cold  water. 
Boil  one  quart  of  water  and  one  pound  of  sugar  for 
five  minutes,  then  add  the  gelatine  and  stir  till  dis- 
solved. Remove  from  the  lire;  as  soon  as  cool  set  it 
on  ice  to  get  ready  to  freeze,  after  adding  the  juice  of 
ten  oranges  and  two  lemons,  when  it  is  all  very  cold, 
freeze,  adding  the  beaten  white  of  one  ^^^^  sweetened. 
Freeze  the  same  way  as  ice  cream. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. 

To  one  quart  of  grated  pineapple  add  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  one 
quart  of  water  boiled,  dissolve  the  sugar  in  hot  water, 
stir  in  the  lemon  and  pineapple,  let  stand  one  hour, 
then  strain  through  a  sieve.  When  very  cold  pour 
into  the  freezer  to  freeze,  stirring  it  until  stiff.  Beat 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar.  Stir  these  in  when  partly  frozen, 
then  finish.  It  will  need  two  large  pineapples  or  three 
small  ones.      For  freezing  see  freezing  ice  cream. 

CocoANUT  Sherbet. 

Two  good  sized  cocoanuts,  save  the  milk  that- is  in 
them,  break  in  pieces  and  grate  all  the  meat  into  a 
deep  dish,  pour  over  it  two  quarts  of  water  and  let  it 
stand  two  hours,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag  or  sieve; 
to  this  liquid  add  the  cocoanut  milk  and  three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  siigar;  mix  well.  If  not  sweet  enough 
add  more  sugar,  as  freezing  always  requires  more. 


I  So  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


Lemon  Sherbet. 


5  lemons,  the  juice  i  pint  sugar 

I  quart  water  i  tablespoon  gelatine 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  little  of  the  water;  boil  the 
quart  of  water  and  pour  onto  the  gelatine  and  sugar, 
add  the  lemon  juice,  strain,  turn  into  freezer  and 
freeze.      This  is  light  and  creamy. 


ICE  CREAMS. 

How   TO   Freeze  Creams  and  all  kinds  of  Ices. 

The  first  requisite  is  to  have  perfectly  sweet  cream 
and  use  only  the  best  materials,  for  it  will  be  tainted 
with  the  least  defect.  Next  get  a  good  freezer,  one 
working  with  a  crank.  There  are  new  ones  nearly 
ever}'  year,  or  some  improvements.  Begin  to  make 
preparations  four  hours  before  you  wish  to  serve  it. 
A  four-quart  freezer  will  require  twelve  pounds  of  ice, 
two  quarts  and  a  half  of  coarse  salt,  rock  salt  is  the 
best.  Put  the  cut-up  ice  in  a  coarse  coffee  sack, 
pound  with  a  hatchet  back  till  as  fine  as  hickory  nuts, 
see  that  the  freezer  is  properly  set  in  its  own  tub,  put 
the  cover  on  and  tie  a  double  cloth  over  it,  to  prevent 
the  possibility  of  any  salt  getting  inside.  Place  at 
the  bottom  a  layer  of  ice  three  inches  thick  then  a 
layer  of  salt,  then  ice  again,  then  salt,  and  so  on  till 
packed  full,  with  a  layer  of  ice  last.  Pack  very  solid 
with  a  stick.  Then  remove  the  cloth  and  cover  care- 
fully (see  that  there  is  no  salt  inside),  and  pour  in  the 
cream  having  just  added  the  well  whipped  whites, 
leaving  two  inches  for  expansion.    Replace  the  cover, 


Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book  i8i 

adjust  the  crank,  and  soon  begin  to  turn  the  freezer, 
after  fifteen  minutes  pack  the  ice  down  again,  drain 
off  most  of  the  water  by  taking  out  the  plug  from  the 
bottom,  put  it  in  again,  add  more  ice  and  turn  again, 
repeating  the  draining  and  packing.  Turn  the  crank 
steadily  till  it  turns  pretty  hard.  If  all  is  right  it  will 
freeze  in  about  tinrty  minutes.  Water  ices  take 
longer  time  than  creams.  When  frozen  wipe  the  lid 
of  the  can,  open,  take  out  the  crank,  remove  the 
dasher,  scrape  it  off,  take  a  flat  mush  stick  and  scrape 
down  from  the  sides  of  can,  and  beat  and  work 
thoroughly  for  ten  minutes;  this  makes  the  cream 
smooth.  Put  the  lid  on,  cork  up  the  crank  hole,  drain 
and  pack  with  salt  and  ice,  keeping  a  cloth  on  cover 
to  protect  from  salt;  covering  the  top  with  pure  ice; 
then  throw  a  piece  of  double  carpet  over  it  and  stand 
in  a  cold  place  to  ripen.  In  tasting  when  the  cream 
is  first  frozen,  you  taste  each  ingredient  separately, 
but  after  standing  one  or  two  hours,  they  seem  to 
blend  and  form  a  pleasant  whole.  When  ready  to 
serve  dip  the  can  quickly  in  cold  water  and  wipe  it  and 
turn  out  on  platter  and  serve.  If  you  have  no  freezer 
you  can  use  a  tin  pail  for  the  can,  setting  it  in  a 
bucket  or  some  crock  the  right  size  for  pail,  packing 
into  the  space  between  them,  very  firml}-,  a  mixture 
of  one-third  salt,  to  two-thirds  pounded  ice,  or  snow  in 
winter.  Shake  the  pail  back  and  forth,  scrape  down 
often.  Ice  creams  can  be  served  in  fanciful  shapes  by 
the  use  of  molds.  These  you  have  to  buy,  and  un- 
less you  have  much  use  for  them,  it  is  cheaper  to  buy 
the  cream,  as  it  can  be  obtained  in  almost  every  city. 
It  must  be  placed  in  the  molds  after  it  is  frozen  and 
well  beaten  with  the  spatula,  upon  this  beating  de- 
pends the  fineness  of  the  cream.  I  will  give  a  few 
general  directions  here,  which  I  wdll  not  repeat  in  the 


1 82  The  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book 

recipes  for  creams.  To  freeze  custards,  puddings, 
sherbets,  or  water  ices,  follow  the  same  directions. 

If  you  use  eggs  or  any  thickening  always  strain. 
Do  not  handle  the  ice  with  your  hands  but  use  a  skim- 
mer or  dish  to  dip  it  with,  nor  think  you  must  freeze 
it  in  a  cold  place  like  a  cellar  and  endanger  your 
health  and  life.  It  can  be  frozen  in  any  comfortable 
place.  The  more  rapid  the  melting  of  the  ice  the 
quicker  the  cream  freezes.  Bring  }'our  cream  to  a 
boil  and  melt  the  sugar  in  it  while  hot,  reserve  one 
pint  of  cream  for  whipping  to  stir  in  after  it  begins  to 
freeze;  remember  to  sweeten  and  liavorit  before  whip- 
ping. When  raw  cream  is  frozen  it  has  a  strong  taste 
and  will  never  be  perfectly  smooth  or  velvety.  For 
ices  also  boil  the  water  and  dissolve  the  sugar,  boil 
and  skim  and  set  to  get  very  cold,  then  prepare  and 
freeze.  Berry  flavors  are  prepared  by  allowing  the 
whole  berries  to  stand  awhile  with  a  good  allowance 
of  sugar.  Mash  them,  strain  the  juice,  add  it  to  the 
cream.      It  must  be  too  sweet  before  freezing. 

To  one  quart  of  cream,  allow  one  quart  of  fruit, 
and  one  pint  of  sugar.  Before  it  is  quite  frozen  add 
one  pint  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored.  If  a 
cream  is  too  rich  it  will  not  freeze  at  all.  If  too  poor 
it  will  be  rough  and  seal}'.  A  pint  of  berries  or 
peaches  cut  fine  (without  the  juice)  and  sweetened 
added  to  a  quart  of  ice  cream,  while  in  process  of 
freezing  makes  a  delicious  fruit  ice  cream.  Water- 
ices  are  made  from  the  juices  of  fruits  mixed  with 
water,  sweetened  and  frozen  the  same  way  as  cream, 
only  it  takes  longer  time  for  freezing.  They  must 
both,  cream  and  water,  be  very  cold  before  stirring. 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book  183 


Ice  Cream.     Very  Nice.     No.  i. 

2  quarts  cream  2  cups  sugar,  heaping 
4  eggs,  the  whites                  4  teaspoons  vanilla 

Scald  the  cream  in  double  boiler,  (saving  out  one 
pint  for  whipping)  dissolve  the  sugar  in  hot  cream,  set 
where  it  will  get  very  cold  before  stirring  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  and  whipped  cream.      Freeze. 

Ice  Cream  No.  2. 

3  pints  cream  i  pint  sugar 

1  quart  milk  2  eggs,  the  whites 

This  is  a  different  proportion  and  good.  Flavor 
with  lemon  extract  or  vanilla.  Follow  the  directions 
on  the  previous  page  for  freezing. 

Ice  Cream  No.  3. 

2  quarts  new  milk  2    even  tablespoons  corn 

3  quarts  fresh  cream  starch 

3  pounds  sugar 
Bring  to  a  boil  in  double  boiler  the  milk  and  two 
quarts  of  the  cream;  dissolve  two  pints  and  a  half  of 
the  sugar  in  it  hot;  set  it  where  it  will  get  very  cold 
or  on  ice.  Then  flavor  it  and  flavor  and  sweeten  the 
other  quart  of  cream  with  the  other  half  pint  of  sugar. 
Whip  and  skim  off,  having  it  very  cold,  with  a  cream 
whisk,  taking  it  off  as  fast  as  it  rises,  wet  the  corn 
starch  with  cold  milk  very  smooth  and  boil  five  min- 
utes, stirring  all  the  time.  Then  strain  it.  After  all 
this  is  done  it  is  ready  for  freezing  when  cold.  This 
makes  two  gallons.  For  this  quantity  it  will  take 
nearly  one  peck  of  salt  and  two  pecks  of  line  ice. 
Please  remember  that  you  can  divide  or  double  any  of 


1 84  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

these  recipes,  as  your  needs  maybe.      Freeze;  follow- 
ing directions  for  freezing-. 


Ice  Cream,  Not  So  Rich. 

2  quarts  new  milk  4  eggs  beaten  separately 

3  teaspoons  lemon  extract     2  cups  sugar 

1  pint  whipped  cream  i  pint  strawberry  juice 
Scald  the  milk  in  double  boiler,  beat  the  yolks  and 

add  and  scald  five  minutes,  dissolving  the  sugar  in  it. 
Let  it  get  very  cold,  and  add  the  beaten  whites  and 
cream  sweetened  and  flavored.  Prepare  the  straw- 
berry juice  as  directed,  it  gives  the  cream  a  pretty 
pink  color.  Always  remember  to  strain  all  creams 
that  have  been  boiled.  You  can  leave  out  the  whipped 
cream  and  strawberry  juice,  if  you  wish. 

Frozen  Custard. 

2  quarts  milk  2  tablespoons  vanilla  or 
I  )4  pounds  sugar  lemon 

4  eggs 
Boil  the  milk,  taking  one  cup  out  to  beat  in  with  the 
well  beaten  yolks.  Put  in  the  sugar;  boil  two  min- 
utes, put  away  to  get  cold,  then  add  flavoring  and  the 
well  beaten  whites.  From  one  pint  to  a  quart  of 
whipped  cream  is  a  great  addition.  These  must  be 
very  cold  before  beating,  as  they  beat  stiffer. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

It  is  simply  adding  one  pint  of  well  sweetened  juice 
to  one  quart  of  ice  cream,  putting  it  in  cold  when 
ready  to  freeze. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  185 


Peach  Ice  Cream. 

Peel  and  mash  six  large  ripe  peaches,  put  through 
a  sieve,  for  every  quart  of  cream  well  sweetened. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream. 

To  one  quart  of  cream,  peel,  grate  or  mash  one  pine- 
apple, with  one-half  pint  of  sugar,  strain  through  a 
sieve;  add  it  to  a  regular  ice  cream. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

To  two  quarts  of  regular  ice  cream  add  four  heap- 
ing tablespoons  of  Baker's  sweet  chocolate,  stirred 
smooth  in  a  few  spoons  of  hot  water  and  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  then  pour  it  into  your  hot  milk  or  cream  and 
scald  three  minutes,  set  away  to  cool,  and  proceed  as 
for  ice  cream. 

Orange  Ice  Cream. 

To  one  quart  of  cream,  allow  one  pint  of  sugar,  "  a 
pint  is  a  pound  the  world  around  "  is  the  old  adage; 
the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  one  orange,  (only 
the  outside,  remembering  the  white  is  bitter)  and  the 
juice  of  six  large  oranges,  after  it  is  cold.  After 
scalding  the  cream  put  in  one-half  of  the  sugar  ver}' 
slowly  to  prevent  its  curdling.  The  other  half  dis- 
solve in  orange  juice. 

Lemon  Ice  Cream. 

Grate  the  rind  and  strain  the  juice  of  two  large 
juicy  lemons,  or  three  small  ones,  to  one  quart  of 
cream.      Put  half  a  pint  of  the  sugar  in  hot  cream. 


1 86  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

Dissolve  the  other  half  in  a  little  water  and  lemon  juice, 
adding  it  when  slightly  frozen.  Add  the  juice  slowly 
beating  carefully.  It  will  not  require  so  much  sugar 
if  you  use  lemon  extract.  The  liavor  is  different. 
All  creams  are  lighter  if  you  add  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  one  or  two  eggs  just  before  freezing.  All 
fruits  should  be  sweetened  before  mixing  with  the  cold 
creams  just  before  freezing.  All  creams  should  be 
frozen  two  hours  before  they  are  needed. 

CocoANUT  Ice  Cream, 

The  same  as  ice  cream  No.  i,  adding  nearly  one 
pint  of  finely  grated  cocoanut  to  one  quart  of  cream. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream. 

To  one  quart  prepared  cream,  put  one  pint  of  strong 
coffee  (the  best  Java  or  Mocha)  well  settled.  It  must 
be  perfectly  clear.  One  pint  of  sugar.  In  using 
fruits  or  coffee,  use  no  other  flavoring.  Cook  one 
teaspoon  of  corn  starch  in  boiling  coffee. 

Biscuit  Glace. 

4  yolks  of  eggs  ^  pint  sugar 

2  quarts  whipped  cream 
Beat  well  the  yolks  of  eggs,  add  the  sugar  slowly, 
and  vanilla  to  taste;  scald  three  pints  of  cream  in 
double  boiler,  stir  in  eggs  and  sugar,  when  cold  add 
the  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  freeze.  When  nearly 
frozen,  stir  well  with  the  spatula,  color  part  of  it  red  (if 
you  wish)  with  confectioners'  sugar  and  put  in  bottom 
of  paper  capsules,  or  individual  molds,  or  paper 
cases,  then  fill  up  with  the  uncolored  cream.  Pack 
these  in  ice  and  salt  putting  ice  only  on  and  near  the 


The  Que  en  Cook  Book  187 

top.      It  must  be  frozen  smooth  before  putting  it  in 
these  biscuit  molds.      Let  freeze  two  hours. 

Frencli  Cook. 


WATER  ICES. 

It  takes  a  Httle  longer  time  to  freeze  water  ices 
than  creams.  Stir  the  crank  for  five  minutes  then  let 
it  rest  five  minutes,  for  four  or  five  times,  then  freeze 
the  same  as  for  creams.  Whatever  the  desired  quan- 
tity make  a  syrup  of  the  proportion  of  one  pint  of 
water  to  one  pint  of  sugar,  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes, 
skimming  it  as  soon  as  the  skum  rises,  then  set  away 
to  get  cold.  Add  the  lemon  juice  or  whatever  fruit 
is  desired,  adding  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  stiffly 
beaten,  to  every  two  quarts  of  the  mixture,  stirring 
them  in  when  partly  frozen. 

Lemon  Ice. 

3  quarts  water  3  quarts  sugar 

18  lemons  6  eggs,  the  whites 

Strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Follow  directions  for 
freezing  as  above  and  for  ice  cream.  Or  make  a  very 
strong  lemonade  and  very  sweet,  the  juice  of  five 
lemons,  strained,  to  one  quart  of  water.  When  it 
begins  to  freeze  stir  in  the  six  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

Mrs.  B. 

Pineapple  Ice. 

1  pint  water  i  pint  sugar 

2  ripe  pineapples  5  eggs,  the  v/hites. 
Prepare  the  syrup  as  directed;  beat  the  whites  of 

two  of  the   eggs  stiff,  stir  it   in   to   clarify  the  syrup, 


1 88  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

skimming  as  fast  as  it  rises;  boil  fifteen  minutes;  let 
it  get  very  cold.  Peel  and  grate  the  pineapple,  strain 
through  a  sieve.  To  one  quart  of  the  syrup  add  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  stir  in  the  pineapple;  when 
very  cold  freeze  as  directed.  When  about  half  frozen 
beat  in  the  whites  of  three  stiffly  beaten  eggs,  adding 
four  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  in  eggs.      Freeze. 

Cherry  Water  Ice. 

Prepare  the  same  as  the  above  recipe,  allowing  one 
pint  of  mashed  pitted  cherries  to  one  quart  of  syrup, 
adding  one  cup  of  sugar  to  cherries  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.      Freeze  the  same  as  other  ices. 

Coffee  Ice, 

One  pint  of  strong  coffee  (perfectly  clear),  one  pint 
of  water,  one  pint  of  sugar.  Prepared  as  other  ices 
and  frozen  the  same  way. 

Orange  Ice. 

Peel  and  cut  up  eight  large  oranges;  put  on  one  cup 
sugar;  let  stand  an  hour,  squeeze  them  well  and  strain 
through  a  sieve,  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons;  add  all 
to  one  quart  of  the  prepared  S}rup,  as  heretofore 
stated,  and  the  whites  of  three  stiffly  beaten  eggs 
when  partly  frozen,  then  freeze. 

Currant  and  Grape  Ice. 

These  are  made  the  same  as  other  fruits;  allowing 
one  pint  of  the  juice  to  one  quart  of  the  syrup.  With 
all  these  fruits  be  sure  they  are  sweet  enough,  as  the 
acids  vary. 


TJic  Ouccn  Cook  Book  189 


TuTTi  Frutti. 

When  a  rich  vanilla  cream  is  partly  frozen,  candied 
cherries,  chopped  raisins,  citron  or  any  other  candied 
fruit  chopped  fine  are  added;  add  about  half  the  quan- 
tity of  fruit  that  there  is  of  ice  cream.  Freeze  in 
molds  or  not. 


CAKE. 


Cake  Mixing. 


There  is  a  best  way  of  doing  everything,  even  to 
boil  an  Q.^gg,  to  cook  it  so  as  to  be  palatable  and 
nourishing.  So  there  must  be  a  best  way  to  go  to 
work  to  make  a  cake.  How  very  difficult  it  seems  to 
a  beginner,  while  to  one  of  experience  it  is  very  simple 
and  a  delight.  Knowledge  gives  us  power  in  all 
things.  A  clean  calico  dress  and  apron  is  the  first 
necessary  thing  when  one  is  going  to  work  with  flour. 
The  next  is  to  get  every  thing  ready  to  work  with,  on 
the  clean  kitchen  table.  Line  the  baking  pans  with  best 
wrapping  paper.  Turn  the  cake  pan  bottom  side  up 
and  cut  two  papers  the  size  of  the  bottom,  butter  the 
top  one  by  warming  the  pan,  then  put  the  dry  one 
under  the  other;  for  the  sides  shape  the  paper  inside 
to  the  pan  and  then  crease  it  and  cut  it  the  depth  of 
pan  and  butter  them.  Cake  baking  pans  should  have 
a  tube  in  the  center,  it  bakes  more  even,  but  do  not 
forget  to  butter  it.  Now  get  all  the  ingredients  to- 
gether, and  be  very  exact  in  all  your  measurements. 
For  a  cupful  of  flour,  sugar  or  butter,  run  a  knife 
straight  across  the  top  of  cup;  this  is  even  full  for  a 
cup  or  tablespoon.      Roll  the  sugar  (using  the  pow- 


190  The  Qiiccii  Cook  Book 

dered  for  nice  cake,  the  granulated  is  too  coarse  a 
grain),  and  measure  the  butter  you  need;  in  cold 
weather  let  the  butter  stand  long  enough  to  soften  so 
as  to  cut  easily,  but  if  it  melts  at  all,  it  will  make  the 
cake  heavy  or  soggy.  Sift  and  measure  the  flour, 
then  sift  the  second  time,  after  you  have  stirred  the 
baking-powder  in  it.  In  hot  weather  lay  the  eggs 
for  one-half  hour  in  very  cold  water  as  they 
will  beat  lighter.  This  should  be  the  first  thing 
to  do.  I  always  take  for  all  kinds  of  cake  just 
half  as  much  butter  as  sugar,  except  fried  cakes. 
This  gives  the  best  grain  to  the  cake.  For  fruit 
cake,  seed  tiie  raisins,  clean,  wash  and  dry  the 
currants  the  day  before.  Sprinkle  two  tablespoons 
of  flour  on  ever}'  pound  of  raisins  after  slightly 
chopping  them,  using  the  dryest  and  best 
brown  sugar.  Add  the  raisins  after  the  flour  and  milk 
is  stirred  in.  Stir  the  cake  in  an  earthen  dish  (never 
in  tin)  with  a  wooden  spoon.  In  cold  weather  warm 
the  dish  by  letting  warm  water  stand  in  the  dish  till 
warmed  through,  not  hot  enough  to  melt  the  butter. 
First  put  the  rolled  sugar  in  the  dish,  then  in  the  cen- 
ter put  the  cut  up  butter  and  stir  to  a  perfectly  light 
cream.  This  is  best  for  all  cakes,  even  cookies  or 
or  fried  cakes  are  more  delicate.  Always  beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  separately  on  a  flat  plate  or  platter 
with  a  steel  knife,  using  it  deftly  by  slightly  lifting  it 
and  not  stirring,  to  give  it  a  light  foam.  I  have  pur- 
chased several  egg  beaters  and  tried  two  of  our  own 
invention,  but  have  discarded  them  all  and  gone  back 
to  the  steel  kitchen  knife;  the  eggs  are  much  lighter. 
Stir  the  well-beaten  yolks  in  next  till  very  light  color, 
then  the  whites,  then  the  flour  and  milk,  about  one- 
fourth  at  a  time  gradually,  till  all  is  in,  adding  the 
flavoring.      Do  not  leave  the  cake  after  you  once  begin 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  191 

to  mix  it;  alwa3'S  stir  the  same  way  and  pirt  right  in  a 
moderate  oven  that  you  can  hold  your  hand  into  count 
thirty.  It  must  be  heated  through  to  the  center  ere  it 
baices,  so  as  to  rise  even;  the  heat  must  not  decrease, 
or  it  will  fall,  but  be  kept  a  steady  heat.  It  must  rise 
fully  before  a  crust  is  formed.  If  the  cake  browns  too 
fast  cover  it  with  brown  paper,  and  open  one  of  the 
oven  dampers  for  a  short  time.  As  much  depends  on 
the  heat  of  the  oven  and  your  intelligent  management 
of  it  as  in  mixing.  Count  the  number  of  minutes  it 
takes  to  bake  bread,  for  cake  a  little  less.  When  the 
cake  rises  and  cracks  open  you  may  be  sure  there  is 
too  much  flour.  Some  flours  swell  more  than  others. 
Open  the  oven  door  as  little  as  possible  and  close  it 
quickly,  do  not  turn  it  round  till  it  is  set  in  center. 
There  are  three  simple  tests  to  tell  when  cake  is  done. 
It  will  cleave  from  the  pan  around  the  edges;  will  not 
stick  to  a  broom  corn  run  into  the  center  of  cake;  and 
put  your  ear  to  the  cake  and  if  you  hear  it  tick  or  sing 
loudly  it  is  not  done;  return  it  to  the  oven;  if  very 
faintly  it  may  be  done.  Do  not  take  out  of  pan  till 
half  cooled,  then  put  it  on  the  flat  bottom  of  a  larger 
cake  pan  and  frost  if  you  wish  to  Remember  to  use 
only  good,  fresh  eggs  and  perfectly  sweet  butter.  It  is 
well  to  weigh  and  measure  one  pound  each  of  flour, 
sugar  and  butter  and  get  cups  that  twice  even  full  of 
sugar  will  be  one  pound  and  four  times  even  full  of 
flour  will  be  one  pound,  and  once  full  and  one-third  or 
more  one  pound  of  butter.  Do  not  allow  these  cups 
to  be  used  for  any  other  purpose,  and  they  are  always 
ready.  It  is  more  convenient  than  weighing.  I  shall 
give  my  recipes  b}^  measure  as  far  as  possible.  I  do 
not  wish  to  enlarge  the  book  by  repeating  how  to  mix 
every  recipe.  I  will  give  it  in  more  condensed  form. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  beat  the 


192  TJtc  Queen  Cook  Book 

yolks  well  and  stir  in;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  stir  in;  next  the  flour  \\'\\\\  baking  powder  and  milk, 
a  part  of  each  gradually,  and  flavoring.  All  cakes  are 
mixed  this  way,  except  when  otherwise  mentioned. 
If  the  inexperienced  will  read  all  these  directions  they 
will  be  thoroughly  equipped  to  make  a  cake. 

Fruit  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  4  cups  flour 
I  cup  butter  10  eggs 

I  pound  raisins  2  pounds  currants 

y^  pound  citron  2  even  teaspoons  cloves 

I  cup  brandy  2  even  teaspoons  cinnamon 

Prepare  the  raisins,  currants,  and  slice  the  citron 
very  thin  the  day  beforehand,  and  follo-w  the  direc- 
tions for  mixing  cake.  Remember  the  former  direc- 
tions, to  rub  the  dried  or  Zante  currants  first  in  a  crash 
towel  to  break  off  the  little  stems,  and  they  are  some- 
times very  dirty;  wash  in  two  or  three  waters,  press 
the  water  out  between  two  dry  towels  and  dry  them 
over  night  by  the  stove.  You  can  leave  the  currants 
and  citron  out  of  any  cake  you  wish,  and  some  like  it 
better  without  either.  I  am  certain  the  cake  is  more 
healthy  without  and  more  relishable.  A  slow  oven 
for  all  cakes  with  fruit  or  molasses  in  them. 

Loaf  Cake.     Very  Nice. 

3  cups  sponge  i  cup  butter 
3  eggs                                       2  cups  sugar 

3^  cup  flour  I  teaspoon  cloves 

I  teaspoon  cinnamon  ^4^  pound  raisins 

I  teaspoon  soda 
Wash  and  seed  the  raisins  the  day  before  you  make 
it.      In  the  morning  take  three  large  cups  of  the  bread 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  I93 

sponge  before  working  the  dough.  Cream  the  (brown) 
sugar  and  butter  and  beat  eggs  the  same  as  for  other 
cake.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  Httle  hot  milk.  Mix  all 
well  together  and  lastly  add  the  partly  chopped  raisins, 
putting  two  tablespoons  of  flour  on  them  Put  it  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  forty  minutes.      Bake  one  hour. 

Confectionery  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

1  cup  milk  3  eggs,  the  yolks 

3  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Mix  all  together  for  a  three  layer  cake.  For  the 
middle  layer  take  one  cup  of  the  above  mixture,  add 
one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one 
teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  tablespoon 
of  brandy,  one-half  cup  of  flour.  Bake  in  one  layer 
and  put  between  the  other  two  white  layers.  Frost 
each  layer. 

Pl.\in  Fruit  Cake. 

2  cups  brown  sugar  >^  cup  milk 

1  cup  butter  6  eggs,  or  8  eggs 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder  i  pound  raisins. 

4  cups  flour,  nearly  i  teaspoon  cloves 

I  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Can  make  half  the  quantity,  or  double  it. 

Rich  Fruit  Cake. 

4  cups  sugar  8  cups  flour 

2  cups  butter  2  pounds  currants 

2  pounds  raisins  i  pound  citron 

20  eggs  Yz  cup  milk 

4  teaspoon  baking-powder  ^  pint  brandy 
Mix  as  before  directed. 


194  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 


Fruit  Cake.     Good. 

I  cup  brown  sugar  y^  cup  milk 

y^  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  molasses  4  eggs 

^  teaspoon  soda  in  mo-     i  even  teaspoon  cloves,  cin- 
lasses  namon  and  mace. 

I  pound  raisins 
Sift   two  spoons   of  flour  on  the  slightly  chopped 
raisins. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  D.  's  Reliable  Fruit  Cake.     Good. 

2  cups  dry  brown  sugar        i  cup  butter 

I  teaspoon  almond  exti^act  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

4  cups  flour  2  pounds  raisins 

I  teaspoon  mace  y^  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  rosewater         8  eggs 

When  all  is  mixed  put  one-fourth  of  the  quantity  in 
a  baking  pan,  then  a  layer  of  thin  sliced  citron  dredged 
with  flour,  then  another  layer  of  batter,  then  of  citron, 
and  so  on  until  all  is  in,  this  being  an  excellent  way  of 
putting  in  the  citron;  finish  with  a  layer  of  the  cake 
batter,  and  bake  forty-five  niinutes  or  more. 

Imperial  Cake 

2  cups  sugar  i  cup  butter,  heaping 
10  eggs                                     4  cups  flour 

I  lemon,  grated  rind  and     i  pound  almonds 
juice  y?.  pound  citron 

^  pound  raisins  i  tablespoon  nectarine  ex- 

I  tablespoon  orange  flower        tract  in  i  teaspoon  water 
water  i  tablespoon  rosewater 

Pound    the    almonds   after   skinning    and    splitting 

them.      Put  two  extra  tablespoons  of  flour  on  the  fruit. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  195 

This  is  a  delicious  cake,  and  when  cut  is  very  dis- 
tinguished looking.      Will  keep  a  long  time. 

These  two  last  recipes  will  make  two  medium-sized 
cakes,  that  is,  two  three-quart  pans,  or  one  five-quart. 
For  fruit  cake  it  bakes  more  even  with  a  tube  in  the 
center  of  the  pan. 

White  Fruit  C.\ke. 

I  cup  white  sugar  7  eggs,  the  whites 

^  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  pound  raisins  Yi  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder  2  teaspoons  flavoring 

Mix  as  directed  before  and  flavor  with  any  light  col- 
ored extract.  Boil  the  raisins  in  a  little  water  a  few 
minutes  to  bleach  them;  then  wipe  dry  and  stone 
them,  then  chop  them  a  little.  Can  add  two  layers  of 
citron  if  you  like.      Sprinkle  the  raisins  with  flour. 

Mrs.  B. 

Dried  Apple  Cake. 

2  cups  dried  apples  i  cup  raisins 

1  cup  sugar  i  cup  molasses 
^  cup  butter  i  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder  I  teaspoon,  even,  soda 

2    eggs 

3  cups  or  more  of  flour        Nutmeg  and  cinnamon 
Make  it  as  stiff  as  fruit  cake.    Pick  over  and  wash  the 

apples  and  soak  in  just  enough  water  to  soak  soft,  say, 
two  hours.  Then  chop  them  as  raisins,  and  boil  them 
fifteen  minutes  in  the  molasses,  then  dissolve  the  soda 
in  a  little  hot  water,  and  put  it  in  the  molasses  when 
cold. 


196  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


Delicate  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  10  eggs,  the  whites 

I  cup  butter  ^  cup  milk 

4  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

2  teaspoons  ahnond  extract 
Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  beat  the  whites 
stiff  and  stir  into  the  cream;  add  the  baking-powder 
to  the  flour  and  sift  it  twice,  then  add  it  with  the  milk 
gradually  and  the  extract. 

Delicate  Cake. 

1  y^  cups  sugar  6  eggs,  the  whites 
y^   cup  butter — scant  2  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder    2  teaspoons  lemon  extract 
'  Mix  baking-powder  well  with  flour,  pass  it  through 

the  sieve  three  times.  This  is  mixed  contrary  to  the 
usual  rules.  Beat  the  butter  alone,  to  a  light  cream, 
and  add  the  flour  to  it,  stirring  it  in  gradually  with  the 
ends  of  the  fingers,  until  it  is  a  smooth  paste.  Beat 
the  \vhites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  in  them  the  sifted 
sugar;  now  stir  the  egg  and  sugar  gradually  into 
the  flour  and  butter,  adding  the  flavoring,  and  mix  it 
smoothly  together  with  the  o-g^  whisp.  For  frosting, 
see  frostine:. 


Hickory  Nut  Cake, 

2  cups  sugar  i  cup  milk 

I  cup  butter  4  cups  flour 

5  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

One  pint  hickory  nut  meats  cut  fine,  sprinkled  with 
flour  and  rolled.     Rich  and  excellent. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  197 


Fig  Layer  Cake. 

For  the  cake: 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  vanilla 
Yz  cup  butter  i  egg,  and  yolks  of  2 

2  cups  flour  ^  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

For  Fig  Paste. 

y>^  cup  water  i  cup  sugar 

8  figs  I  Q^g^  the  white 

Bake  the  cake  in  three  layers.  Boil  the  water  and 
sugar  till  a  little  brittle  when  you  string  it  in  cold  air; 
then  take  the  sugar  from  the  stove,  cool  a  little,  beat 
the  white  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  it,  chop  the  figs 
very  fine,  and  add  gradually.  Spread  the  paste  on 
top  of  each  cake  and  sides,  if  you  wish.  It  (the  cake) 
may  need  more  flour. 

Plain  Loaf  Cake.    Very  nice. 

1  y^  pounds  brown  sugar        i  y  pounds  butter 
^  pint  of  yeast  i  pint  milk 

2  pounds  raisins  i  teaspoon  each   cinamon 

3  eggs  and  cloves 

3  pounds  flour 
This  measures  three  quarts  sifted,  well  heaped  of 
flour,  one  pint  rounded  of  butter,  one  quart  of  sugar. 
Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  warm  the  milk  and 
stir  with  the  yeast  in  flour,  let  rise  over  night,  saving 
out  one  cup  of  flour  to  add  next  morning  with  the 
other  ingredients,  beaten  eggs  and  floured  raisins. 
Put  in  pans  and  let  rise  forty  minutes.  This  recipe 
makes  three  loaves.      Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


19^  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 


Pound  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  lO  eggs 

13^  cups  butter  Flavor  as  you  like 

4  cups  flour 
.  This  is  very  rich  and  fine,  and  needs  to  be  made 
and  baked  in  a  skilful]  manner.  One  teaspoon  bak- 
ing-powder is  surer  of  being  light  and  a  tube  in  center 
of  baking  pen.  Can  bake  it  in  one  large  loaf,  or  two 
smaller  ones.  Can  flavor  with  one  tablespoon  necta- 
rine of  orange  flower  vvater. 

Cup  Cake. 

1  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  4  eggs 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder    Flavoring. 

Mix  as  for  other  cakes.      Can  add,  if  you  wish,  a 
half  cup  of  milk,  and  then  more  flour. 

Sponge  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  10  eggs,  salt 

2  cups  flour  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

Baking-powder,  if  you  like 
Beat  the  yolks  light,  beat  in  the  sugar  until  very 
light,  then  add  half  the  flour.  Beat  the  whites  to  a 
very  stiff  froth,  add  half  of  them  to  cake,  then  the 
remaining  half  of  flour,  then  the  remaining  half  of  the 
whites,  the  grated  rind  and  strained  juice  of  lemon; 
stir  lightly  and  put  in  buttered  paper  pan.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven,  but  not  too  hot,  about  forty-five  minutes; 
to  one  hour.  Great  care  should  be  taken  not  to  but- 
ter the  paper  too  heavily;  lay  the  paper  in  hot  pan  and 
grease  with  small  cloth. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  199 


White  Sponge  Cake. 

6  eggs,  the  whites  i  cup  sugar 

^  teaspoon  cream  tartar  Y^  cup  flour 
I  teaspoon  almond  extract 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  gradually  beat 
in  the  sugar,  mixing  lightly,  add  the  cream  tartar  to 
the  flour,  sift  it  twice,  then  sift  it  into  the  cake,  mix 
the  cake  quickly,  but  carefully,  add  one  teaspoon  of 
flavoring.  The  recipe  sa5S  turn  into  an  ungreased 
pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 

A  Small  Sponge  Cake. 

I  cup  sugar  i  ^  cups  flour 

6  eggs  Flavoring 

Beat  eggs  separately  and  mix  as  above. 

Sponge  Cake. 

I  tumbler  sugar  i  tumbler  flour 

5  eggs  I  teaspoon  vinegar 

Another  Sponge  Cake. 

I  cup  sugar  i  cup  flour 

4  eggs  I  teaspoon  baking-powder 

Flavoring" 


A  Smaller  SpongehCake. 

I  teacup  sugar  i  teacup  flour 

3  eggs,  lemon  extract  i  ^  teasp'ns  baking-powder 

2  tablespoons  water. 


200  Tlie  Queen  Cook  Book 

Ice-Cream  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

I  cup  milk  7  eggs,  the  whites 

1  cup  corn  starch  2  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder  2  teaspoons  lemon  extract 

Bake  in  three  layers  with  boiled  frosting  between. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  water  boiling  hot; 
boil  until  it  candies;  do  not  stir  it.  Cool  a  little 
and  try  it  between  the  thumb  and  finger;  if  it  threads 
it  is  done.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth;  pour  over  them  slowly  (beating)  the  candied 
sugar  and  beat  untilcold.        Mrs.  Sarah  B.  Smith. 

The  above  recipe  is  a  nice  delicate  cake  baked  in 
one  loaf. 

Delicate  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  3  cups  flour 

6  ounces  butter  14  eggs,  the  whites 

I  lemon  juice  and  rind. 

Almond  Cake. 
2  cups  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

8  eggs,  the  whites  i  cup  milk 

I   or  2   teaspoons   orange    %  pound  almonds  mashed 
flower  water  4  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder 
This  must   be  carefully  put  together  and  it  is  very 
nice. 

To  Blanch  Almonds. 
Shell  them,  throw  them  into  boiling  water,   place 
on  back  of  stove  about  six  minutes;  then  put  them 
into  cold  water  and  remove  the  skins  by  rubbing  with 
the  hands.     Mash  in  an  earthen  mortar. 


The  Qucoi  Cook  Book  20 1 


White  Mountain  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  7  eggs 

34  cup  butter  i  cup  corn  starch 

2  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

Bake  in  layers,  three  or  four,  with  this  filhng:  Pour 
one-half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  over  four  cups  of 
sugar  (powdered)  and  boil  till  a  spoonful  on  a  cold 
saucer  will  stir  to  a  cream.  Pour  the  boiled  sugar 
gradually  (beating  all  the  time)  into  the  whites  of  four 
well-beaten  eggs.  Stir  until  the  whole  is  cold  and 
cream}'.      Spread  between  and  on  top  of  layers. 

CocoANUT  Cake. 

T  cup  sugar  ^  cup  milk 

^2  cup  butter  2  eggs 

2  cups  flour  I  teaspoon    baking-powder 

This  is  a  good  foundation  for  any  layer  cake.  I 
have  made  it  in  one  loaf,  stirring  one-half  of  a  grated 
cocoanut  in  the  cake,  frosting  the  top  and  sprinkling 
thick  with  cocoanut.  For  the  icing,  take  two  whites, 
beat  to  a  stiff  froth  and  beat  in  (sifting  through  a  piece 
of  lace)  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  or  more,  till  it  is  stiff 
enough  not  to  run,  spread  it  thin  on  each  layer  and 
sprinkle  with  cocoanut,  then  lay  on  the  other  and  frost 
the  same  till  all  three  layers  are  together,  frosting  and 
sprinkling  the  top  one  the  heaviest.  Set  in  the 
heater  to  dry. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

I  cup  butter  2  cups  sugar 

4  cups  flour  I  cup  milk 

4  eggs,  flavoring  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 
Three  or  four  layers. 


202  Tlic  Oitccn  Cook  Book 


Frosting. 
Two  ounces  of  grated  Baker's  chocolate;  and  one  cup 
and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar  sifted  through  lace  into 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs;  beat  fifteen 
minutes,  spread  on  each  layer  and  put  them  evenly 
together. 

Washington    Cake. 
2  cups  sugar  8  eggs 

"Yl  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

Lemon  extract  2  teaspoon    baking-powder 

Bake  in  three  layers.      This  is  good  for  any  la3'er 
cake  and  is  just  the  thing  for  a  picnic. 

Filling  or  Frosting. 
I  quart  milk  2  eggs 

1  small  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons    corn    starch 
When  both  are  cold,  spread   it  between;   but  does 

not  keep  good  over  night. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Jelly  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  i  cup  milk 
^  cup  butter                          2  cups  flour 

3  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 
This    makes  three  layers,   flavor  with  lemon — The 

jelly:  One  cup  of  water,  one  tablespoon  cornstarch, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  lemon,  two  oranges,  grate  the 
rinds,  add  the  juice,  let  boil  to  cook  the  corn  starch, 
beating,  making  it  very  smooth. 

Or  this  filling: 
I  cup  sugar  i  lemon  or  2  oranges,  grate 

I  tablespoon  butter  the  rind,  squeeze  juice 

Beat    well    together    and    let    boil.     This  is  much 
richer, 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  203 


Marble  Cake. 

Light  Layers: 

I  cup  sugar  2  eggs,  the  whites 

Yi  cup  butter  ^  cup  milk 

1  y^  flour  I  teaspoon  baking-powder 

y^  nutmeg 

Dark  or  Dash: 

y2  cup  brown  sugar  Yo,  cup  molasses 

Yi  cup  butter  ^  cup  milk 

2  cups  flour  I  teaspoon  cloves  and  cin- 

1  teaspoon  baking-powder  namon 

2  eggs,  the  yolks 

Can  bake  as  layer  cake,  or  as  one  cake  b)-  putting 

in  first  a  layer  of  light,  then  the  dark,  making  four 

la3'ers,  or  in  two  cakes.      If  one  prefers  can  use  two 

tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate  instead  of  the  spices. 

Queen's   Cake. 

2  cups  sugar  16  eggs,  the  whites 
Yi  cup  butter                          4  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder 3^  cup  sweet  cream 
Flavor  with  almond  or  lemon. 

Plain   Cup  Cake. 

I  cup  sugar  i  cup  milk 

Yi  cup  butter  3  eggs 

2Y2  flour  I   teaspoon  baking-powder 

Flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Can  leave  out  the  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  use  sour 
cream  our  sour  milk  and  soda  if  you  like  it  better. 


204  ^■^^^  Qucoi  Cook  Book 

Silver  Cake. 
2  cups  sugar  2  ^  cups  flour 

34^  cup  butter  3^^  sweet  milk 

8  eggs,  the  whites  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

Gold  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar  ^  sweet  milk 

1/2  cup  butter  8  eggs,  the  yolks 

2  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 
Mix  and  bake  the  same  as  other  cakes.      Flavor  as 

you  like. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake  Pie. 

3  eggs  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

I  teacup  sugar  i  ^  cups  flour 

I  teaspoon  baking-powder 
Beat  all  well  together  and  bake  in  layers.  Use  this 
filling:  Boil  one  pint  of  milk,  stir  in  smoothly  one 
tablespoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  milk,  two 
eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  a  large  teaspoon  of  butter; 
flavor  as  you  wish.  Vanilla  or  grated  cocoanut  in  the 
cream.  Or  bake  the  above  cake  in  one  loaf;  when 
cold  split  it  open  and  put  in  the  above  filling,  or  this, 
whip  a  pint  of  sweetened  cream  stiff,  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  flavor  with  vanilla,  beat  all 
together,  having  it  on  ice  or  snow,  and  spread  it  upon 
the  split  sides  of  the  cake.  Do  not  let  the  cream  ap- 
pear on  the  outside  and  it  looks  like  an  ordinary  cake. 
This  is  a  delicate  and  delicious  dessert. 

Real  Angel's  Food. 

I I  eggs,  the  whites  i  tumbler  sugar 
I  tumbler  flour                       A  pinch  of  salt 

Sift  the  flour  five  times  with  the  baking-powder  (one 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  205 

teaspoon)  and  salt;  sift  the  sugar  three  times.  Beat 
the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  In  mixing  beat  as  httle  as 
possible;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  steady 
heat. 

Angel's  Food. 

y2  pint  flour  i  even  teaspoon  corn  starch 

4  tablespoons  hot  water       3  even  teaspoons  cream  of 

I  Yz  cups  powdered  sugar         tartar 

I I  eggs  I  teaspoon  flavoring 

Sift  the  flour,  corn  starch,  and  cream  of  tartar 
together  five  times;  put  the  water  and  sugar  in  a 
granite  basin  on  the  stove;  stir  well  together,  let  it 
simmer  slowly  while  you  beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
after  you  sprinkle  on  them  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Boil  the  syrup  until  it  will  thread,  and  pour  it  slowly 
over  the  beaten  eggs;  beat  all  briskly  until  the  mi.xture 
is  light  and  cool;  then  sift  the  flour  over  it  a  little  at 
a  time,  and  stir  it  gently  until  all  the  flour  is  in  and 
no  lumps,  stir  in  the  flavoring,  and  pour  the  batter 
into  a  three-quart  pan  with  a  tube  in  the  center;  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes.  Stick  a 
straw  into  the  cake,  if  it  comes  out  clean,  the  cake  is 
done.  Turn  the  pan  upside  down  and  let  it  rest  on 
the  table  until  the  cake  is  nearly  cold,  then  remove  it 
from  the  pan,  and  place  it  bottom  up,  on  a  larger  cake 
pan.     Cover  with  boiled  icing. 

N.  B. — In  making  the  angel's  food,  the  beating 
and  mixing  must  all  be  done  with  a  wire  spoon  egg 
beater  (not  a  Dover).  The  eggs  must  be  very  cold. 
Grease  the  pan  very  slightly — do  not  use  a  piece  of 
butter  larger  than  a  pea;  do  not  cut  this  cake  until  it 
is  ten  or  twelve  hours  old.  Better  when  two  days 
old.      Saw  the  cake  with  the  knife  when  cutting  it. 

Home  Messensrer. 


2o6  TJie  Ouecn  Cook  Book 


Sunshine  Cake, 

lO  eggs,  the  whites  7  yolks 

I  tumbler  flour  i  ^  tumblers  sugar 

I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  i  lemon,  juice  and  rind 
Yz  teaspoon  carbonate  ammonia,  or  extract  lemon 
Be^t  the  yolks  very  light  with  half  the  sugar;  beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  beating  in  lightly  the  rest 
of  the  sugar;  then  add  the  beaten  yolks,  sugar  and 
flavoring;  stir  in  the  lour  graduall3%  sifting  the  am- 
monia last.  Bake  in  a  tin  the  same  as  angel's  food, 
without  greasing  it;  sift  the  sugar  once  and  the  flour 
four  times;  turn  the  tin  upside  down  to  cool  as  in 
angel's  food. 

N.  B. — Carbonate  of  ammonia  can  be  powered  fine 
and  dissolved  in  lemon  juice  or  sprinkled  over  and 
stirred  into  the  batter  the  last  thing. 

Home  LIcsscngcr. 

One  Egg  Cake. 

1 3^  cups  sugar  i  cup  milk  or  cream 

1/2  cup  butter  i    Qg%, 

3  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

Grated  nutmeg  to  taste 

Molasses  Cake. 

I  cup  molasses  i  teacup  butter 

)A,  cup  hot  water  i  teaspoon  soda 

I  even  tablespoon  ginger 
Heat  the  molasses  hot,  dissolve  the  soda  in  the  hot 
water,  stir  it  with  the  softened  butter,  ginger  and  one 
teaspoon  baking-powder  in  the  two  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour,  sifting  it  twice.  Not  quite  so  stiff  as  other 
cakes. 


Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book  207 


ICINGS. 

Icing  for  Cakes. 

The  whites  of  three  large  eggs  beaten  so  stiff  they 
will  not  slide  or  drop  from  knife,  sift  in  through  a  piece 
of  lace  or  fnie  sie\c  two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  sift- 
ing and  beating  in  gradually,  till  you  can  spread  it  on 
cake  and  not  run.  This  will  frost  two  cakes  top  and 
sides.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract  or 
a  half  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Rule  for  Frosting. 

For  the  white  of  one  ^.^^g,  one  cup  of  sifted  sugar. 
Beat  the  &gg  stiff  and  gradually  add  the  sugar,  beating 
till  light  and  not  thin  enough  to  run  w^hen  you  spread 
it.  Flavor  or  not  as  you  like.  This  is  the  propor- 
tion. For  boiled  icing,  I  refer  you  to  the  icing  under 
the  head  of  mountain  cake  and  ice  cream  cake. 

Boiled  Icing. 

Boil  until  it  will  thread  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  and  one  tablespoon 
of  water;  pour  the  boiled  sugar  into  the  whites  of  two 
stiffly  beaten  eggs,  beat  well;  when  cool  spread.  After 
a  little  experience  in  nice  cake  making  and  frosting, 
one  needs  to  be  guided  by  their  own  judgment  as 
regards  the  stiffness  of  cake  or  icings;  as  eggs  vary  in 
size  and  flour  in  thickening  qualities.  Be  particular 
to  use  the  same  sized  cup  for  all  measures  of  the  same 
cake. 


2o8  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 


Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

I  cup  brown  sugar  i  cup  N.  O.  molasses 

1  cup  butter  i  cup  milk 

2  eggs  I  teaspoon  soda 
I  tablespoon  ginger  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  teaspoon  cloves  i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

About  4  cups  flour 
Heat  the  molasses  boiling  hot;  dissolve  soda  in  a 
little  hot  water  and  beat  it  well  into  the  molasses, beat 
this  into  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar,  add  a  part  of 
the  flour,  then  the  well  beaten  eggs,  milk,  spices  and 
the  rest  of  flour.  Be  careful  not  to  burn  it  or  bake 
too  fast.  It  must  rise  up,  before  the  top  browns.  If 
oven  is  too  hot  cover  the  top  with  paper.  There 
should  be  a  paper  or  two  in  bottom  of  pan. 

.  Plain  Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

I  cup  sour  cream  i  teaspoon  soda 

I  cup  N.  O.   molasses  i  pint  flour  or  two  cups 

1  even  tablespoon  ginger      i  teaspoon  salt 

Hard  Ginger  Bread, 

2  pounds  butter  2  quarts  molasses 

2  teaspoons  powdered  alum  4  teaspoons  saleratus 
2  tablespoons  ginger  3^  teaspoon  sal.  ammonia 

About  10  pounds  flour 
Put  the  flour,  sifted  twice,  in  the  bread  pan;  make 
a  hollow  in  the  center;  cut  up  the  butter  and  put  in; 
heat  the  molasses;  dissolve  the  alum  in  one  pint  of 
boiling  water;  also  the  saleratus  in  another  pint  of 
hot  water.  Let  both  settle  and  pour  off  carefully 
(leaving  the  sediment  at  the  bottom)  into  the  molasses 


The  Once II  Cook  Book 


209 


and  pour  all  quite  warm  on  to  the  butter.  Sift  on  the 
ginger,  ammonia  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt;  work  and 
mix  it  with  the  hands.  Mix  it  soft,  as  }-ou  can  roll  it 
easily  and  nicely  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick,  and 
bake  on  long  square  tins*  Make  it  up  without  delay 
and  put  it  in  oven  immediately,  as  anything  with 
soda  or  saleratus  loses  its  rising  qualities.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven,  as  molasses  burns  easily.  This  is  the 
old-fashioned  gingerbread,  such  as  our  grandmothers 
used  to  make  on  training  days  after  the  revolutionary 
war  and  was  called  Trainers'  Gingerbread, 


Gingerbread. 

^  cup  molasses  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

Yz  cup  brown  sugar  ]A,  cup  butter 

1  cup  sour  cream  i  Yz  teaspoons  soda 

2  teaspoons  ginger  i  even  teaspoon  cinnamon 

About  three  cups  flour. 
Mix  as  other  cakes.  Dissolve  the  soda;  put  half  in 
the  hot  molasses  and  half  in  the  sour  cream.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  It  requires  more  care  and  longer 
baking  than  a  cake  made  from  all  sugan  Always  put 
one  or  two  papers  in  bottom  of  pan  for  cake  that  has 
molasses  in  it. 


Gingerbread. 

Y2  cup  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

Yi  cup  molasses  i  cup  sour  cream 

1  teaspoon  soda  i  teaspoon  ginger 

2  cups  flour,  about  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Put  half  of  soda  in  cream  and  half  in  molasses;  mix 

and  bake  as  others. 


2 1  o  Tlie  Queen  Cook  Book 


Ginger  Snaps. 

I  cup  brown  sngar  i  cup  N,  O.  molasses 

I  cup  butter,  heaping  ^  cup  hot  water 

I  good  teaspoon  soda  i  tablespoon  ginger 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  bring  the  molasses  to  a 
boil,  let  partly  cool,  stir  in  one-half  the  soda,  putting 
the  other  half  in  the  hot  water.  Stir  all  together, 
then  take  the  hand,  stir  in  flour  just  right  to  roll. 
Roll  out  very  thin  and  bake  quick  and  dry  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  This  makes  a  pan  full.  Remember,  you 
can  make  one-half,  or  double  any  of  these  recipes. 
Keep  dry  in  tin  box.  If  they  gather  dampness,  dry 
them  in  heater. 


Ginger  Cookies. 

2  cups  molasses  i  cup  butter 

2  teaspoons  soda  i  cup  sour  milk 

2  teaspoons  ginger  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

Boil  the  butter  and  molasses  five  minutes.  Dis- 
solve the  soda  just  half  in  molasses,  and  half  in  sour 
milk.      Mix  stiff  enough  to  roll. 

Ginger  Cookies. 

I  cup  brown  sugar  i  quart  N.  O.  molasses 

I  ^  cups  butter  4  even  tablespoons  ginger 

I  tablespoon  cinnamon         i  teaspoon  cloves 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  boil  the  molasses  five 
minutes,  then  add  a  large  teaspoon  of  soda,  put  all  in 
the  center  of  flour  and  mix  with  hand;  do  not  knead  it, 
but  roll  out  and  cut  for  cookies.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ately quick  oven. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  2 1 1 

Chocolate  and  Cocoanut  Jumbles. 

1  cup  butter  4  eggs,  yi  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 
Cream  the   butter   and  sugar,  beat  the  eggs  Hght. 

Mix  all  together,  then  take  one- half  of  mixture  and 
add  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  mix  it  in 
flour  to  roll,  to  the  other  half  add  one  cup  of  grated 
cocoanut,  mix  and  roll,  and  you  have  two  kinds  of 
cookies  with  one  mixing.  Cut  with  scallop  cutter, 
or  incfancy  shapes.  The  oven  should  be  hot  enough 
to  bake  in  ten  minutes. 

Sugared  Cookies. 
2  cups  sugar  i  cup  sour  cream 

I  cup  butter  2  eggs,  nutmeg 

I  even  teaspoon  soda 
Mix  as  the  others,  soft,  with  little  mixing,  roll  out 
and   sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  through  a  sieve, 
and  cut  with  round  or  scallop  cutter.      These  are  very 
nice  and  white. 

New  England  Cookies. 

1  yi  cups  sugar  i  cup  sour  cream 
3^  cup  butter                             i  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  caraway  seeds 
Sufficient  flour  to  roll  out  easily;  if  too  stiff,  will  not 
be  good;  roll  them  half  an  inch  thick.      Bake  cookies 
in  dripping  or  sheet   iron  pans.      Keep  dry  in  tin  box. 

Crullers. 

2  cups  sugar  i  cup  sour  milk 

]/2  cup  butter  i  even  teaspoon  saleratus 

4  eggs 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beat  the  eggs,  put  all 


2 1 2  The  Oiiccn  Cook  Book 

in  the  flour,  mix  soft,  roll  out  long,  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick,  cut  strips  one  and  a  half  inches  wide  and 
three  inches  long.  \\  ith  a  jagging  iron,  running  it  three 
times  through  the  center  leaving  the  ends  whole, 
double  the  ends  together  diagonally  and  fry  a  light 
color  in  hot  fat  as  fried  cakes. 

Bakers'  Cookies. 

I  cup  sugar,  brown  3^  cup  milk  or  sour  cream 

Yz  cup  butter  i  egg 

I   teaspoon  baking-powder 


CANNING  FRUITS. 

The  four  months  from  the  time  of  strawberries  in 
June,  till  October,  is  the  harvest  time  for  fruits  for 
every  housekeeper,  as  well  as  for  the  industrious 
farmer,  to  go  earnestly  into  the  work  of  securing  the 
winter  and  spring  supplies  of. relishes,  preserves,  canned 
fruits,  pickles  and  condiments  of  various  kinds.  To 
an  ambitious  housekeeper  it  is  a  genuine  pleasure  and 
satisfaction,  that  she  may  be  fully  equipped  to  supply 
the  needs  of  those  who  are  depending  upon  her  for 
much  that  goes  to  make  life  a  pleasure.  We  should 
not  be  content  until  we  have  become  familiar  with 
caring  for  fruits  as  well  as  cake-making;  though  not 
as  essential  as  a  good  bread-maker  and  cook  of  meats 
and  vegetables.  She  will  be  constantly  gathering  new 
ideas  and  making  improvements.  Let  us  try  and  not 
make  too  hard  work  of  this  extra  annual  labor;  but 
make  our  plans  for  it  before  hand,  thinking  of  all  the 
materials  we  will  need  to  purchase  for  the  fruit  that 
is  to  be  cared  for  in  the  coming  weeks,  such  as  sugar, 


The  Oucai  Cook  Book  2  i  3 

spices,  cans,  covers  and  rubbers.  More  vinegar,  etc. 
We  do  not  need  to  can  as  many  fruits  as  formerly,  as 
we  can  obtain  line  oranges  in  the  early  spring,  which 
are  a  very  pleasant  change. 

The  lack  of  having  things  in  readiness  only  goes  to 
annoy  and  tire  the  one  who  is  hoping  to  make  a  suc- 
cess of  it. 

Select  your  fruit  carefully  yourself;  reject  all  that  is 
imperfect.  Wash  and  wipe  it  dry  with  a  crash  towel. 
Strawberries,  raspberries  and  blackberries,  wash  in 
very  cold  water  quickly  and  drain  through  a  colander 
or  sieve.  Some  years  raspberries  have  a  small  white 
worm  inside,  the  water  brings  them  out,  but  take 
them  to  a  bright  light  when  washing.  For  canning 
only  cook  enough  for  three  or  four  quarts  at  a  time, 
as  it  breaks  the  fruit.  The  best  way  to  test  the  cov- 
ers of  cans  is  to  fill  the  cans  with  water  the  day  before 
you  wish  to  use  them  and  screw  tight  with  good  new 
rubbers  the  same  as  for  canned  fruit,  and  lay  them  on 
the  side  over  night.  When  you  put  the  rubber  on  the 
Mason  jar  run  the  thumb  all  around  the  inner  edge  to 
make  sure  it  is  pressed  down  and  neither  too  large  or 
too  tight.  If  they  do  not  leak  water  you  may  be  sure 
they  are  good.  Put  a  breakfast  plate  in  the  bottom  of 
a  kettle,  fill  it  half  full  of  water,  fill  three  or  four  cans 
two-thirds  full  of  water  and  set  in  on  the  plate,  to  keep 
from  breaking  them.  Let  these  get  boiling  hot  while 
you  are  heating  the  fruit.  Another  way  is  to  wrap  a 
cold  wet  cloth  twice  around  and  under  the  bottom  of 
can  while  filling  can,  e.xcluding  the  air  from  the  out- 
side it  will  not  break;  put  in  funnel  and  fill  gradually 
with  boiling  hot  fruit,  run  the  handle  of  a  silver  spoon 
next  to  the  inside  of  ca'i  to  let  out  any  air  bubbles,  fill 
full,  let  stand  ten  minutes  as  it  will  settle  some;  screw 
tight  as  possible;  when  cold  tighten  the  cover  again, 


214  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

let  lie  over  night  on  their  side,  if  they  do  not  leak  they 
are  probably  all  right,  and  ready  to  put  in  a  dark,  cool 
place.  You  can  try  them  and  see  if  they  are  tight. 
In  one  week  examine  them  closely.  If  any  are  fer- 
mented take  off  the  top  of  them,  and  scald  and  recan 
and  use  up  soon.  Some  set  the  can  on  a  cold  wet  cloth 
and  .put  a  silver  tablespoon  inside,  letting  the  handle 
run  up  into  the  funnel,  and  fill  withhotfruit  as  others. 
The  fruit  should  be  perfectly  fresh  and  nearly  ripe 
enough  to  eat  by  hand.  All  berries  should  be  canned 
the  day  they  are  picked,  and  so  should  peaches.  Pears 
should  be  picked  as  soon  as  seeds  are  more  than  half 
turned  dark,  put  in  boxes  in  cellar  and  covered  with 
matting  or  old  carpet,  till  they  are  nearly  lit  for  eating. 
This  is  the  onl}'  way  they  have  a  rich  flavor;  they 
never  get  it  on  the  tree.  Look  them  over  every  day 
after  the  first  three  da3'S.  C)uinces  should  not  be 
picked  till  in  October  and  turning  somewhat  yellow. 
They  can  stand  a  few  days.  The  rubber  rings  should 
have  an  even  edge  all  around,  when  the  cover  is 
screwed  on,  for  if  it  slips  up  (drawn  in)  or  swells  out, 
air  is  admitted.  Be  sure  the  glass  cans,  covers  and 
rubbers  are  perfectly  clean  when  put  up.  Keep  your 
rubbers  on  a  ribbon  roller,  to  keep  in  shape.  If  not 
kept  in  shape,  they  will  not  probably  be  air-tight 
again.  Wash  all  the  syrup  off  of  jars,  before  putting 
them  away  after  filling. 

New  glass  cans  often  contain  fine  bits  of  glass;  they 
should  be  washed  well  with  hot  soap  suds  and  use  a 
swab. 

Canned  Apples. 

Take  tart  late  fall  apples,  wash  and  wipe  clean. 
Peel  and  quarter,  or  if  large  cut  in  six  or  eight  pieces. 
Allow  one  cup  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  apples  after 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  2 1  5 

they  are  cored;  wash  them  again  that  the  syrup  may 
be  clear.  After  weighing  the  apples  keep  them 
covered  from  the  air  (as  it  turns  them  dark)  till  you 
have  made  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  one  quart  of 
water  or  more  according  to  quantity  of  fruit.  Boil 
and  skim.  If  the  sugar  is  specky  strain  it,  and  then 
put  in  apples  enough  for  four  quarts  at  a  time,  let  get 
hot  slowly,  as  soon  as  tender,  can  them  as  directed  in 
canning.  Do  not  can  them  till  cold  weather  as  they 
will  keep  better.  A  nice  way  is  to  mix  a  few  quinces 
with  the  apples,  by  partly  cooking  the  quinces  first. 
To  two  quarts  of  apples  put  one  quart  quinces,  they 
require  more  sugar  than  apples.  Never  cook  nor  eat 
what  seems  to  be  the  sound  part  of  deca5'ed  fruit  of 
any  kind;  its  very  breath  is  tainted.  The  Duchess 
and  Maiden  Blush  are  superior  for  cooking.  Always 
use  a  porcelain-lined  or  granite  kettle  for  cooking  all 
kinds  of  fruits  and  pickles.  Apple  preserves  are  made 
the  same  way,  only,  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar  to 
one  of  apples. 

Canned  Peaches. 

Select  fruit  just  ripe,  but  not  soft,  the  late  Crawford 
is  the  best,  though  there  is  a  very  rich  white  peach  if 
you  can  obtain  it.  Peel  and  cut  in  halves,  take  out 
the  pit,  cover  them  with  a  paper,  as  they  turn  dark  in 
the  atmosphere;  (have  a  wet  cloth  in  your  dish,  to 
wipe  knife  and  fingers  on  often  for  paring  all  fruits). 
Rinse  quickly  in  water  and  drain.  One  cup  of  sugar  to 
two  quarts  of  peaches,  or  as  you  like  it.  Prepare  the 
syrup  as  for  apples.  Do  not  boil  as  they  will  boil  to 
pieces,  but  keep  them  boiling  hot  and  press  down  dip- 
ping the  syrup  on  top.  Do  not  stir  fruit  that  you  wish 
to  keep  whole.     When  clear  or  boiling  hot  can  them. 


2i6  The  Qiiceii  Cook  Book 

If  you  wish  them  rich  as  preserves  put  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  peaches. 

Pears. 

Pears  should  be  pared  and  halved  and  cored,  not 
only  taking  out  the  seeds,  but  all  the  core  to  the  stem; 
keep  them  covered,  rinse  in  cold  water,  drain,  make 
the  syrup,  skim  and  strain  if  necessary,  they  require 
much  less  sugar  than  peaches,  and  require  to  be 
cooked  twice  as  long  or  more,  till  they  can  be  pierced 
easil}',  with  fork.  Some  like  sliced  lemon  in  them. 
A  little  green  ginger  root  added  to  the  syrup  gives  a 
very  pleasant  flavor,  as  pears  are  quite  tasteless. 

Plums. 

To  can  plums  allow  one-half  pound  of  sugar  (or  a 
coffee  cup)  to  one  pound  of  fruit;  wash  and  pick  off 
the  stems;  prick  each  end  of  the  plums  quite  through 
with  a  darning  needle,  put  in  a  stone  jar;  make  the 
syrup,  putting  as  little  water  as  possible  to  melt  the 
sugar,  for  the  plums  are  very  juic}'.  Put  one  cup  of 
water  in  the  kettle  with  what  sugar  it  will  melt  slowly 
and  then  keep  adding  till  all  is  melted,  boiled  and 
skimmed,  then  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  plums. 
Put  a  nice  clean  plate  on  them,  to  keep  the  plums 
under  the  syrup,  and  let  stand  until  the  next  day; 
pour  the  syrup  from  the  plums  and  let  boil  again, 
pouring  it  on  the  plums,  repeat  this  process  three 
days;  then  put  the  syrup  over  the  fire,  and  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil  add  the  plums,  and  cook  slowly  fifteen 
minutes,  then  fill  your  cans  and  seal.  The  object  of 
scalding  them  so  many  times  is  to  prevent  them  from 
breaking  to  pieces.  This  is  good  for  all  kinds  of 
plums.    Plum  preserves  are  made  the  same  way,  using 


The  Qitccn  Cook  Book  217 

pound    for    pound,  or   some    will   only  require  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit. 


Plum  Marmalade. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  plums  to  take  the  skins 
off  easily;  take  of¥  the  skins,  take  out  the  pits,  then 
\\'eigh;  if  sour  use  pound  for  pound,  if  not,  three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  To  make  the 
syrup  add  as  little  water  as  possible  to  melt  it,  then 
put  in  the  fruit  and  cook  till  smooth,  say  thirty  min- 
utes, if  not  smooth  put  it  through  a  sieve;  put  it  in 
cups  or  small  jars. 

Quinces. 

Quinces  should  be  thoroughly  ripe  and  one  meets 
with  the  best  success  when  they  are  of  a  bright  golden 
yellow.  There  are  two  or  three  kinds  of  quinces, 
some  cook  to  pieces  in  the  syrup,  not  bearing  much 
boiling;  other  kinds  require  cooking  soft  in  water  first. 

I  use  what  is  called  the  lemon  quince  and  I  find  it 
cooks  tender  in  the  syrup.  If  it  turns  red  you  have 
cooked  it  too  long.  Can  them  as  soon  as  tender. 
Wash  the  fruit  and  rub  with  a  dry  cloth,  pare  and  cut 
in  eight  pieces,  and  cut  out  all  the  white  core,  as  it 
will  turn  dark.  Keep  covered  while  paring  and  wash, 
to  take  off  all  specks.  In  making  the  syrup  allow  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit  and  hardly  water 
enough  to  cover,  when  cold  put  in  the  fruit,  cook 
slow  ]y  till  tender  (not  red)  and  can.  A  tea  saucer  is 
the  best  to  dip  all  fruit  into  the  funnel.  For  preserves 
use  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  to  a  pound  of 
fruit  and  can  air  tight. 


2i8  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

Strawberries. 
Take  fresh  picked  berries,  wash  quickly  in  very  cold 
water,  hull  and  pick  over  carefully;  one  coffee  cup  of 
sugar  to  one  quart  of  berries  or  richer  if  you  like. 
There  are  two  ways  of  canning  them,  one  is,  put  one- 
half  a  cup  of  water  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  put  in  the 
sugar  then  the  berries  on  top  and  stand  on  back  of 
stove.  Let  stand  till  the  juice  moistens  the  sugar; 
put  it  over  a  slow  fire  till  all  the  sugar  is  melted,  then 
gradually  increase  the  heat  till  the  berries  are  heated 
through,  say  to  the  boiling  point,  and  can.  Do  not 
be  too  long  about  it,  or  let  them  be  on  the  fire  too 
long,  as  they  will  loose  their  beautiful  color  and  turn 
white.  Another  way  which  I  have  never  tried,  but  is 
reconnnended  by  good  authorit}'  is,  to  fill  the  can 
with  the  fruit,  fill,  up  with  the  syrup,  put  on  cover 
without  rubber,  set  the  cans  in  an  old  boiler  with  rack 
imder  them,  have  the  cold  water  not  reach  the  top  ai 
can  by  two  inches,  then  let  coine  to  a  boil,  fifteen 
minutes  boiling  is  usually  enough;  the  berries  must  le 
boiling  hot  through,  then  fill  full,  put  on  rubbers  ar.d 
screw  on  covers.  This  is  the  most  difficult  fruit  to 
keep,  as  it  is  very  acid  and  comes  in  the  hottest 
weather. 

Strawberry  Preserves. 
Prepare  them  in  the  same  way,  taking  a  pound  of 
sugar  for  a  pound  of  fruit,  onl}^  as  soon  as  the  fruit  is 
boiling  hot  through  skim  it  out  into  can  (the  propor- 
tion), and  boil  the  syrup  with  coyer  of^  twenty  or 
thirty  minutes;  then  make  the  cans  air  tight. 

Raspberries: 
These  are  canned  and  preserved  the  same  way  as 
strawberries. 


T]ic  Qticcn  Cook  Book  219 


Pineapples. 

The  siigarloaf  is  one  of  the  sweetest  and  best  pine- 
apples for  preserving.  The  season  for  this  is  at  its 
height  about  the  last  of  June  or  4th  of  July,  when 
these  delicious  fruits  nui}',  when  plenty,  often  be  pur- 
chased for  $1  a  do2en.  The  best  come  from  Havana. 
In  June  the  choice  Ripley  and  the  Queen  Aime  are 
choice  varieties  and  come  from  Jamaica.  They  are  ex- 
ceedingly rich  in  flavor  and  sweet.  These  fancy  pines 
are  quite  small,  selling  on  an  average  at  30  cents 
apiece.  These  are  considered  superior  to  any  other 
variety  for  table  use  because  of  their  rich  flavor. 
The  most  delicious  way.  of  preserving  a  pineapple  is 
in  its  o\\n  juice  without  using  one  drop  of  water. 
Peel  the  pineapples  carefull}'  after,  cutting  them  in 
slices  one-half  an  inch  thick  cut  out  all  the  eyes  and 
allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every 
pound  of  pineapple.  Put  a  small  layer  of  sugar  in 
the  bottom  of  a  stone  crock,  then  a  la3'er  of  pineap- 
ple and  a  la^er  of  sugar  and  one  of  fruit,  and  so  on 
till  all  is  used;  cover  them  tight  after  putting  a  press- 
ure on  them  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  A  clear 
juice  will  nearly  cover  them  then.  Now  take  each 
slice  and  tear  the  pulp  in  pieces  off  the  core,  using  a 
silver  fork.  Drain  off  all  the  juice  from  the  pulp  and 
als(j  the  juice  and  sugar  out  of  the  dish;  put  this 
juice  and  sugar  in  granite  kettle.  Let  it  come  slowly 
to  boiling  point;  skim  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  then 
strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  sheer  cloth  over  the 
pulp.  Let  the  pulp  boil  up  in  the  syrup  once,  then 
can  it  immediately,  as  longer  boiling  darkens  the  fruit. 
If  you  wish  use  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  up  to 
clarify  the  syrup. 


220  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 


Serving  Pineapple. 

A  nice  dessert  for  dinner  or  a  tea  dish,  is  to  slice  it 
the  same  as  the  above,  cover  with  sugar  in  layers,  let 
stand  for  two  hours.  Then  tear  the  fruit  from  the 
core  with  a  silver  fork.  Preserved  pineapple  is  espe- 
cially fine  served  with  whipped  cream.  A  pineapple 
Bavarian  cream  is  one  of  the  best  desserts  we  have, 
and  there  is  no  better  water  ice  or  sherbet.  But  do 
not  buy  the  coarse-grained,  flavorless  early  fruit. 

Canning   Tomatoes. 

Scald,  peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes  as  for  cooking 
for  table,  rejecting  the  cores  and  every  one  that  is  im- 
perfect. One  teaspoon  salt  to  every  peck;  put  o\er 
to  cook  one-half  hour  or  more  stirring  very  often,  till 
it  is  fine,  then  can  hot  and  seal  tight. 

Preserved  Citron  Melon. 

Pare,  core  and  cut  the  melons  into  slices;  cut  up 
the  slices  an  inch  and  a  half  long.  Weigh  them,  and 
to  every  six  pounds  of  fruit  put  six  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  the  juice  and  yellow  rind — pared  off  thin 
— of  four  lemons;  also  half  a  pound  of  race  ginger; 
put  the  slices  into  a  granite  kettle,  cover  with  water 
and  a  layer  on  all  of  peach  leaves;  boil  about  half  an 
hour,  or  until  clear,  and  a  broom-corn  will  easily 
pierce  them;  drain  them,  spread  them  in  a  pan  of 
cold  water,  and  let  them  stand  all  night;  next  mx-rn- 
ing  tie  the  ginger  in  a  thin  muslin  cloth  and  boil  it  in 
three  pints  of  water  until  the  water  is  highly  liavored; 
take  out  the  ginger;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  ginger- 
water,  put  in  the  lemon  peel  and  boil  and  skim  it  till 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  221 

no  more  scum  rises;  take  out  the  lemon  peel,  put  in 
the  citron  slices  and  juice  of  lemon,  and  boil  in  the 
syrup  till  the  slices  are  transparent  and  a  straw  will 
go  through  them;  put  the  slices,  while  warm,  in  jars, 
and  pour  the  syrup  on  slowly;  seal  in  air  tight  cans. 

Home  Messenger. 

Cranberry  Sauce,  Jam  and  Jelly. 
Pick  out  all  the  soft  berries  and  stems,  wash  and 
put  over  to  stew  with  water  enough  to  come  to  the 
top.  To  every  quart  of  berries  put  one  pint  of  sugar, 
stew  till  tender  and  thoroughly  cooked,  either  to  a  jell 
or  with  a  syrup,  as  you  like.  The  jell  is  made  the 
same  as  currant  jell,  and  the  jam  or  marmalade  the 
same  as  plum  marmalade. 

Prunes  (Stewed). 
Wash  thoroughly  in  two  waters,  put  in  stew  kettle 
with  water  enough  to  cover,  to  one  quart  of  prunes 
put  tv\'o  tablespoons  of  sugar,  be  very  careful  not  to 
get  them  too  sweet,  as  the  flavor  of  good  ones  de- 
pends upon  the  proportion  of  sugar  and  fruit.  Let 
steep  on  back  of  stove  till  tender,  perhaps  two  hours 
or  more.      Do  not  buy  cheap  ones,  they  are  insipid. 

Apple  Sauce. 
This  is  a  favorite  dish  to  be  eaten  with  fresh  pork, 
roast  pig,  goose  and  duck.  Use  Rhode  Island  green- 
ings or  any  sour,  juicy  apple;  wash  and  wipe  clean. 
Pare,  quarter  and  core,  put  in  granite  kettle,  with 
water  to  cover  well,  cook  till  nearly  tender  then  add 
sugar  according  to  the  acidity  of  apple.  If  you  wish 
marmalade  add  a  little  more  sugar  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.      Some  like  a  teaspoon  of  butter  stirred  in. 


222  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 


JELLIES. 

Jelly  making  requires  skill  and  care;  only  the  best 
quality  of  fruit  and  best  coffee  sugar  should  be  used. 
It  must  not  be  Qooked  too  long  as  it  makes  it  ropy, 
strong  and  dark-colored.  The  same  rules  must  be 
observed  for  all  jellies.  I  will  give  a  perfect  one  for 
currant  jelly  and  all  others  are  made  the  same  way, 
such  as  strawberries  and  grapes.  Try  to  obtain  the 
fruits  when  they  are  just  ripe — not  too  ripe,  for  then 
they  are  liable  to  be  watery  and  the  jelly  qualities 
destroyed  to  a  greater  or  less  extent. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Have  the  currants  picked  as  clean  as  possible  from 
leaves,  pick  them  over  but  not  off  the  stems,  pick  out 
all  that  are  dried  or  green;  wash  and  drain  well,  then 
squeeze  a  few  at  a  time  with  the  hands,  in  a  large 
bowl,  and  put  them  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  when 
all  are  in,  put  it  on  a  slow  fire  stirring  often,  let  come 
to  a  boil  for  twenty  minutes;  then  strain  through  a 
coarse  three-cornered  cloth  strainer.  Wash  out  the 
kettle.  Let  the  strainer  hang  and  drip  for  an  hour, 
(let  them  cool  before  you  fill  the  strainer),  then 
squeeze  lightly  only.  Measure  the  number  of  pints  of 
j  uice ;  allow  one  pound  of  best  coffee  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
juice;  set  the  sugar  on  platters  in  moderate  oven  to 
get  quite  hot,  while  the  juice  is  boiling  twenty-five 
minutes;  skim  the  scum  off  as  soon  as  it  rises,  then 
have  a  strong  fire,  and  slowly  stir  in  the  hot  sugar, 
which  will  take  live  minutes.  Jelly  will  form  one  side 
of  spoon  and  kettle  while  the  stirring  is  going  on,  let 
it  just  come  to  a  boil,  wrap  a  cold  wet  cloth  around 
the  glasses  and  fill  with  a  cup,  if  it  is  right  the  cold 


The  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book  223 

cup  will  be  loaded  with  jelly.  Such  juicy  fruits  as 
currants,  grapes  and  strawberries  require  no  water  to 
make  jelly.  Pulpy  fruits,  such  as  peaches,  apples  and 
quinces,  should  be  cut  up  small,  after  being  pared  and 
cored,  and  just  water  enough  to  come  to  the  top  of 
fruit  in  the  stew  kettle.  Boil  slowly,  keep  covered, 
stir  often,  till  tender  and  no  more,  then  strain,  (with- 
out much  squeezing)  measure  and  allow  one  pound  of 
sugar  for  every  pint  of  juice,  and  proceed  the  same  as 
with  currant  jelly.  A  friend,  who  is  always  success- 
ful in  her  jellies,  says  the  juice  for  jellies  must  never 
be  squeezed  through  the  jelly-bag;  and  also  that  she 
always  cooks  the  strained  juice  twenty  minutes  with- 
out the  sugar,  after  it  is  measured,  but  has  the  sugar 
on  platters  in  the  oven,  carefully  stirring  it  occa- 
sionally, and  watching  that  it  does  not  get  too  hot  so 
as  to  brown.  Then  she  stirs  the  hot  sugar  into  the 
juice,  and  lets  it  boil  up  just  once;  then  takes  it  from 
the  fire  immediately.      Her  jelly  always  "  sets." 

Lemon  Jelly. 

I  oz.  gelatine  3  cups  sugar 

3  lemons  2  oranges,  the  juice 

Wet  the  gelatine  with  a  little  cold  water,  when 
partly  dissolved  p^ur  on  one  quart  of  boiling  water; 
add  the  juice  of  lemons  and  oranges  and  sugar,  then 
strain  and  pour  in  molds,  set  on  ice.  Make  it  the  day 
before  using  it. 

Wine  Jelly. 

To  a  package  of  Cox's  gelatine  put  one  pint  of  cold 
water,  put  in  a  warm  place  for  a  while  to  dissolve, 
then  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  three 
lemons,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  wine.      Bring 


2  24  Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book 

to  a  boil,  strain  and  put  in  molds.  If  it  is  cold 
weather,  or  stands  over  night,  one  pint  more  of  water 
can  be  added  and  it  will  come  to  a  jelly  easily.  This 
makes  nearly  three  quarts. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

To  one  ounce  of  Cox's  gelatine,  put  one  cup  of 
warm  milk,  keep  warm  till  dissolved,  then  add  one 
cup  sugar;  strain,  add -a  little  salt,  flavor  with  lemon, 
extract  or  vanilla.  Flavor  and  svv^eeten  one  quart  of 
cream.  Whip  it,  and  add  it  to  cold  gelatine.  One 
can  put  it  in  dish  and  serve  when  cold  as  it  is  with 
cake,  or  line  the  dish  with  sponge  cake  and  pour  it  in 
when  it  begins  to  stiffen.  This  must  be  eaten  the  day 
it  is  made. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

The  day  before  wanted  make  a  stif^  plain  jelly  of 
calves'  feet,  or  you  may  use  Cox's  gelatine,  but  the  feet 
are  best;  put  four  calves'  feet  in  a  gallon  of  water  and 
boil  slowly  until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bones  and  the 
water  is  reduced  to  less  than  two  quarts;  strain,  and 
let  stand  over  night  in  a  cool  place;  in  the  morning 
scrape  off  all  the  fat,  then  turn  it  out,  scrape  off  all 
the  sediment  from  the  bottom;  have  just  three  pints. 
Boil  one  pint  of  milk,  flavor  it  highly  with  vanilla,  let 
get  cold.  Take  three  pints  of  rich  cream,  put  it  in  a 
shallow  pan,  set  on  ice  and  whip  it  with  whisk, 
skimming  it  off  as  fast  as  it  rises;  then  add  the  vanilla 
milk  to  the  cream,  and  beat  both  together;  melt  the 
jelly  by  setting  it  over  the  fire.  Beat  very  light  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  beating  in  one  cup  of  sugar;  add  by 
degrees  the  melted  jelly  to  the  sugar  and  eggs,  stirring 
very  hard;  keep  the  vessel  setting  on  ice  and  continus 


The  Once II  Cook  Book  225 

stirring  till  the  mixture  is  firm  enough  to  retain  the 
mark  of  the  spoon;  then  stir  in  the  whipped  cream  as 
quickly  as  possible;  have  ready  your  dish  for  table, 
lined  with  sponge  cake  and  pour  in  the  charlotte.  Put 
ice  around  it  in  refrigerator.  It  will  be  ready  to  serve 
in  two  hours.  Some  prefer  it  without  the  sponge 
cake  and  eat  it  with  cream  and  cake.  For  cleaning 
feet,  see  souse. 

Calves'  Foot  Jelly. 

Clean  well,  and  cut  off  the  toes  of  a  calf's  feet,  put 
the  feet  into  a  gallon  of  water,  boil  till  reduced  one- 
half,  then  strain,  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing take  off  all  the  fat,  remove  the  sediment,  and  put 
the  clear  part  over  the  fire,  the  strained  juice  of  three 
lemons,  two  cups  sugar,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  stick  of 
cinnamon,  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Boil  fif- 
teen minutes,  strain,  and  if  not  clear  strain  again 
through  a  jelly  bag.  The  bag  should  alwa3's  be  wrung 
out  of  hot  water  before  using,  and  the  jelly  should 
always  run  through  of  itself,  never  squeeze  it,  as  it 
makes  the  jelly  muddy.  This  jelly  is  amber  color. 
Half  of  it  may  be  colored  red  and  a  little  at  a  time  put 
into  glasses,  as  it  begins  to  set,  then  the  amber,  then 
the  red,  and  so  on  till  the  glass  is  full.  This  makes  a 
very  showy,  as  well  as  palatable  dessert;  can  cover 
the  top  with  frosting  of  whites  of  sweetened  beaten 
eggs.     This  is  the  old  English  way. 

Neapolitan  Blanc  Mange. 

Measure   three  pints  of  milk,   put  one  pint  in  the 
double   rice  boiler,  mix  two  and  a   half  even  table-  - 
spoons  of  corn  starch  with  cold  milk,  make  it  smooth. 
When  the   milk  is  hot,   before  it  scalds,   stir  in  the 


226  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

starch,  with  two  large  spoons  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of 
salt,  stir  all  the  time  until  smooth  and  as  thick  as  cus- 
tard, remove  from  the  fire  and  add  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon of  rose  extract  and  enough  cochineal  extract 
(which  you  can  find  at  the  druggist's)  to  color  it  pink. 
Put  it  in  a  mold  or  dish  that  will  hold  three  or  more 
pints.  Wash  the  boiler  and  put  in  another  pint  of 
milk  and  proceed  as  before.  When  the  pink  is  cold, 
pour  this  (flavored  with  lemon  extract)  over  it  and  set 
away  to  cool;  when  the  kettle  is  washed  and  you  cook 
the  last  pint  of  milk  the  same  way.  Grate  two  tea- 
spoons of  chocolate  in  a  cup  and  set  in  a  dish  of  hot 
water  to  melt.  When  the  blanc  mange  is  smooth, 
add  chocolate  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  cool  a 
little,  and  when  the  other  is  solid  pour  this  over  it, 
and  set  in  cool  place  till  next  day.  Serve  with  sweet- 
ened whipped  cream  for  dessert. 

Pure  Grape  Wine  for  the  Sick. 

I  give  this  recipe  as  a  safe  preparation  of  wine  to 
be  used  when  necessary,  in  cases  of  great  prostration. 
It  may  prove  of  value  where  a  pure  wine  is  needed. 
Pick  the  grapes  when  ripe  and  sweet,  remove  all  that 
are  green,  imperfect  or  broken,  pick  from  the  stem, 
wash  thoroughly  by  hand,  drain  them,  then  mash  by 
squeezing  a  few  at  a  time  in  a  large  earthen  bowl; 
then  put  them  in  a  sweet  earthen  vessel  (say  four-gal- 
lon jars)  and  let  stand  two  or  three  days,  or  until  the 
skins  rise  and  form  a  scum  and  the  first  fermentation 
begins  to  stop.  Then  strain  through  a  wet  and  some- 
what sheer  cloth  strainer;  do  not  squeeze  too  close,* as 
there  will  be  too  much  sediment;  add  to  the  juice  as 
much  of  best  brown  sugar  as  required  to  make  it 
(when  dissolved),  bear  an   Qg'g  above  the  surface,  the 


TJic  Que  en  Cook  Book  227 

size  of  a  two  shilling  piece.  Pour  off  carefully  into  a 
good  clean  cask  or  beer  keg,  that  30U  can  fill  full  and 
have  two  gallons  over  to  fill  up  with  every  day  as  it 
runs  over.  Leave  the  bung  out,  and  keep  the  cask  so 
full  that  the  scum  may  run  over  until  the  fermenta- 
tion begins  to  stop,  which  will  be  in  eight  or  ten  days. 
Then  stop  it  up  very  tight  and  keep  in  a  good  cool 
cellar  for  three  months,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use,  but 
will  improve  with  age,  whether  bottled  or  kept  on  the 
lees.  Three  bushels  of  grapes  will  make  five  gallons 
of  wine. 

"  A  minister  in  New  York,"  says  the  Chicago  Inter 
Ocean,  "  visited  a  number  of  the  best  liquor  stores 
in  his  neighborhood  and  bought  pint  samples  of  their 
gin,  whisky,  port  wine,  etc.  In  the  analysis  of  the 
'  Pure  Holland  Gin '  were  found  neutral  spirits,  rotten 
corn,  juniper  berries,  turpentine  and  vitrol.  The  fine 
old  hand-made  Kentucky  whisky  contained  neutral 
spirits,  glycerine,  sulphate  of  zinc,  chromic  acid,  creo- 
sote, unslacked  lime  and  fusil  oil,  and  the  rare  old 
port  had  licorice,  zinc,  mercury,  antimony,  muriatic 
acid  and  alum.  The  result  of  this  analysis  is  sufficient 
apology  for  my  recipe  of  '  Pure  Grape  Wine  for  the 
sick.'  " 

Baked  Quinces. 
Wash  and  wipe  clean,  take  out  the  cores  from  the 
blossom  end  with  a  tin  apple  corer,  fill  with  sugar, 
bake  in  pan  with  a  little  water  in  hot  oven,  one  and  a 
half  hours.  Serve  hot  with  sugar  and  cream.  A  nice 
dessert. 

Sugar  Vinegar. 
Dissolve  twenty-five  pounds  of  good  brown  sugar  in 
hot  rain  water,   or  soft  water,  then  strain  it  into  a 
clean  vinegar  barrel  with  iron  hoops,   then  fill  up  with 


228  TJic  Qiii-t'ii  Cook  Book 

soft  water  strained;  get  a  piece  of  what  is  called  "  the 
mother"  from  some  other  vinegar  barrel  and  put  in  the 
barrel.  It  ought  to  stand  in  the  sun  for  six  weeks  with 
a  glass  bottle  in  the  bung.  Then  put  it  in  a  warm 
cellar  till  it  is  good,  perhaps  six  months,  but  you  will 
be  provided  with  good  vinegar  for  years  to  come,  and 
always  have  the  pure  article  at  hand.  We  know  not 
what  injurious  acids  are  in  the  vinegar  we  buy  for 
cider  vinegar.  The  sugar  vinegar  is  the  healthiest 
vinegar  that  is  made  and  makes  the  best  flavored 
pickles. 

Cucumber  Pickles. 

Pick  the  cucumbers  early  in  the  morning,  the  small- 
est are  the  best,  about  three  inches  long;  put  a  layer 
of  salt  in  bottom  of  crock  or  cask  and  a  layer  of 
cucumbers,  and  then  salt,  and  so  on  till  it  is  full.  Put 
a  little  water  in  at  first,  after  that  it  makes  its  own 
brine.  In  the  fall  pour  off  this  brine  and  wash  them 
nicely.  Scald  a  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an 
egg;  let  it  get  very  cold  then  pour  it  on.  Cover  the 
top  with  a  double  cloth  and  cover  this  with  salt;  the 
brine  must  cover  it  all.  Take  off  the  cloth  and  rinse 
it  every  two  weeks  to  prevent  any  scum  from  rising, 
as  it  eats  in  and  turns  them  soft.  There  must  always 
be  a  double  cloth  on  pickles  whether  in  brine  or 
vinegar,  and  rinsed  off  every  two  weeks,  or  they  will 
soon  mold.  When  you  wish  to  put  them  in  vinegar, 
take  out  what  you  wish  and  soak  them  three  or  four 
days  in  soft  water;  change  it  every  day  till  they 
are  freshened  enough;  then  put  them  in  cold  vinegar; 
add  a  few  peppers,  ginger  root  and  horseradish  if  you 
wish.  They  will  be  ready  to  eat  in  a  week.  It  is  bet- 
ter  to   put  them  in    glass   jars.     Nasturtiums  are    a 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  229 

pleasant  addition.  Pick  them  with  the  steams  on; 
they  are  ornamental.  Add  them  to  any  pickle  you 
wish.  Always  use  a  granite  or  porcelain-lined  kettle 
for  all  pickles  or  fruits;  indeed,  I  think  they  are  the 
nicest  for  soups  and  all  cooking^.  As  pickles  of  all 
kinds  are  indigestible  eat  sparingly,  as  a  relish  only. 

Spiced  Sweet  Pickles. 

Sweet  pickles  should  be  rich  and  not  cooked  soft; 
can  put  in  one-half  ounce  of  ginger  root  if  one  likes  it. 

Always  prepare  pickles  in  a  porcelain-lined  or  granite 
kettle;  use  wooden  spoon.  If  3'ou  wish  your  cucum- 
bers green,  put  them  into  cold  vinegar  in  a  granite 
kettle,  stand  them  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  heat 
slowly  until  they  become  green. 

Pears,  quinces  and  plums  are  pickled  in  the  same 
manner  as  peaches. 

Mangoes. 

Use  young  or  small  musk  or  nutmeg  melons  or  can- 
taloupe (which  is  a  delicate  variety  of  musk  melon), 
wash  and  rub  the  melons  well,  cut  out  one  section, 
scrape  out  the  inside  and  wipe  it  out  with  a  cloth,  tie 
each  section  on  to  its  own  melon.  Lay  the  mangoes 
in  a  good  brine  for  three  days,  then  drain  off  the 
brine,  rinse  it  all  off,  and  freshen  in  pure  warm  water 
for  twenty-four  hours  (green  them  as  cucumbers  if 
you  wish).  Then  fill  each  one  with  four  string  beans, 
two  small  cucumbers,  a  gherkin,  a  small  tomato,  just 
to  fill  them;  then  put  in  one  tablespoon  of  the  follow- 
ing mixture  to  each  one. 


2  30  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

4  tablespoons  English  2  teaspoons  mace 

mustard  seed  2  teaspoons  ginger 

4  tablespoons  grated  i  dozen  pepper-corns 

horseradish  i  teaspoon  celery-seed 

I  teaspoon  mustard  i  cup  brown  sugar 

6  nasturtiums 
Put  the  section  on,  sew  it  in  with  coarse  thread,  and 
pack  in  a  deep  stone  jar;  pour  scalding  vinegar  (the 
sugar  vinegar  is  the  richest)  over  them,  repeat  this 
process  three  times  more  at  intervals  of  two  da3'S, 
then  put  a  double  cloth  over  them  a  plate  and  a 
weight  to  keep  them  under  the  vinegar.  These  are 
fine  and  will  keep  for  months.    '  Watch  them  closely. 

Sweet  Pickle  of  Watermelon  Rind. 

Take  firm  thick  rind,  scrape  the  inside,  pare  off  the 
green,  cut  in  small  pieces  one  inch  wide  and  two  long; 
boil  in  water  until  clear  and  a  straw  will  pierce  them; 
drain  well,  dry  with  a  napkin,  place  in  a  jar;  pour 
over  the  following,  boiling  hot,  three  da}s  in  succes- 
sion: for  ten  pounds  of  melon  rind  take  four  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  one  quart  best  vinegar,  one  ounce  of 
whole  mace,  one  ounce  whole  cinnamon,  half  ounce 
of  whole  cloves;  put  the  spices  in  a  thin  bag  and  boil 
in  the  vinegar,  but  not  left  in  with  the  pickle,  as  it 
discolors  the  melon;  put  in  a  jar,  having  them  fully 
covered  with  syrup;  add  more  vinegar  if  needed. 

Spiced  Cantaloupe. 

Select  sm.all  nutmeg  melons,  a  little  green,  not  hard, 
neither  quite  ripe.  Cut  them  into  sections  as  the  rind 
is  marked;  pare,  remove  the  seeds,  scrape  out  clean; 
weigh  the  pieces.  To  each  seven  pounds  allow  four 
pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  one  pint  of  best  vinegar. 


Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book  231 

Put  the  sugar  and  vinegar  in  a  porcelain  lined  kettle ;  put 
in  a  bag  a  half  ounce  each  of  whole  cloves,  green  ginger 
and  stick  cinnamon.  When  hot  put  in  the  cantaloupe. 
Watch  carefully  until  each  piece  is  hot,  but  not  soft. 
Cover  the  kettle  and  press  the  fruit  down  often.  Lift 
each  piece  carefully  and  place  in  a  stone  jar.  Put 
one  teaspoon  each  of  ground  allspice,  ground  mace  and 
cinnamon  into  a  cup;  mix;  divide  into  fourths;  tie  each 
closely  in  a  small  piece  of  cheese  cloth;  put  these  in 
the  jar,  pour  the  syrup  on  the  fruit  and  stand  away 
till  the  next  morning;  then  pour  off  all  the  liquor  again; 
boil  and  strain  it  again  for  nine  consecutive  days. 
The  last  day  take  out  the  spices  and  boil  the  syrup 
down  to  the  consistency  of  molasses;  have  enough 
syrup  to  cover  well;  press  down;  keep  cool. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle. 

One  peck  green  tamatoes,  three  onions,  six  green 
peppers;  chop  fine,  squeeze  the  juice  off  through  a 
colander;  salt  to  taste;  put  on  enough  vinegar  to  scald 
up  once,  then  let  it  cool  and  drain  off  the  vinegar. 
Make  a  dressing  of  four  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
of  mustard,  two  teaspoons  black  pepper,  with  vinegar 
enough  to  cover  it  well;  heat  and  pour  over. 

Spiced  Peaches. 

7  pounds  peaches  ]/->,  cup  whole  cloves 

4  pounds  sugar  3^  cup  broken  cinnamon 

I  pint  vinegar  J^  pint  water 

Put  the  sugar  into  the  vinegar  and  water  to  dissolve, 
put  spices  in  thin  bag  and  let  soak  in  hot  syrup  (after 
wetting  them  in  hot  water)  while  3^ou  rub  the  peaches 
hard  with  a  coarse  dry  cloth  to  take  off  the  fuzz;  stick 
each  peach  with  six  cloves;  put  into  the  syrup  to  cook 


232  TJic  One  en  Cook  Book 

as  many  peaches  at  a  time,  as  the  syrup  will  cover;  let 
simmer  till  tender,  but  they  must  not  break,  then  fill 
the  cans,  shake  down  and  fill  up  with  the  syrup,  let 
stand  ten  minutes,  shake  down  again,  fill  to  the  brim, 
put  a  double  cloth  on  to  keep  the  top  covered  with 
syrup  and  seal. 

Sliced  Tomato  Pickles. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  six  large  onions.  Slice 
and  cook  for  five  minutes  in  one  quart  of  vinegar  and 
two  quarts  of  water  and  two  tablespoons  of  salt. 
Drain  well,  then  tie  in  a  cheese  cloth  three  table- 
spoons of  white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoons  each  of 
ground  cloves,  cinnamon  and  ginger  and  three  green 
peppers  chopped  fine;  put  the  bag  in  two  quarts  of 
vinegar  with  the  pickles  and  boil  all  together  till  well 
seasoned;  then  can  tight. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Scald  and  peel  as  many  ripe  tomatoes  as  you  need; 
lay  in  ice  water  till  very  cold,  then  slice  them,  pour 
ofT  the  juice.  Pare  and  slice  very  thin  two  cucum- 
bers. Put  some  fresh  lettuce  leaves  in  the  salad  bowl 
with  one  small  onion  sliced  fine;  put  all  on  the  leaves 
and  serve  with  a  salad  dressing. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

Eight  pounds  of  tomatoes,  one  quart  of  vinegar, 
three  pounds  sugar,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  of 
cloves,  one  of  English  mustard  and  one  of  red  pepper. 
Boil  down  till  quite  thick. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  233 


Cabbage  Salad. 

Select  a  solid  head  and  one  that  is  white  after  the 
outside  leaves  are  taken  off.  Lay  on  a  board  and  with 
a  sharp  knife  cut  fine;  set  in  ice  box  till  ready  to  use. 
Serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Gooseberry  Catsup — Very  Fine. 

Pick  off  the  blows  of  over  a  peck  of  gooseberries; 
wash;  boil  in  granite  kettle  in  just  water  enough  to 
come  to  the  top,  and  cook  to  pieces.  Strain  through 
a  fine  wire  sieve.  No  seeds  must  rub  through.  Meas- 
ure the  pulp,  and  to  eight  pints 'of  pulp  put  six  pints  of 
sugar,  four  teaspoons  of  ground  cinnamon,  six  tea- 
spoons of  ground  cloves.  Boil  till  stiff  enough  not  to 
run  on  the  plate.  This  is  very  relishable  when  rightly 
made.  As  there  is  no  vinegar  in  it  all  stomachs  can 
bear  it.  For  a  smaller  quantity:  To  seven  coffee 
cups  of  pulp  put  five  cups  of  sugar,  two  teaspoons 
of  cinnamon  and  three  of  cloves.  Can  or  bottle 
tightly. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Put  over  in  a  porcelain  kettle  four  quarts  of  peeled 
ripe  tomatoes.  Cook  for  half  an  hour  till  all  is  soft, 
then  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  Return  the  juice  to 
kettle;  add  two  coffee  cups  of  vinegar,  four  cups  of 
sugar,  a  salt  spoon  of  cayenne,  a  teaspoon  each  of 
ground  cloves,  ginger,  allspice,  pepper  and  mustard, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt  when  first  put  over.  Mix  well  all 
these  ingredients  in  an  earthen  dish  with  the  juice  be- 
fore returning  to  the  fire.  Then  let  slow  boiling  evap- 
orate the  water,  stirring  often,  till  thick  enough  not  to 


234  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

run  on  the   plate.      Can  tightly  while  hot  and  it  will 
keep  indefinitel)'. 

Cold  Catsup. 

To  half  a  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  three  green  and 
three  red  peppers,  and  a  large  bunch  of  celery,  all  cut 
line,  add  three  pints  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  of  salt, 
one  teacup  white  mustard  seed,  one  teacup  grated 
horseradish  and  two  tablespoons  of  black  pepper. 
Put  these  three  last  ingredients  in  a  sheer  cloth  bag, 
let  lie  in  it  and  soak,  or  mix  them  in  it  if  you  like,  but 
I  think  it  better  not  to. 


ODDS  AND  ENDS. 

Frying  Salt  Pork. 

As  this  was  mislaid,  I  will  insert  it  away  from  its 
regular  family.  It  is  very  fine.  Salt  pork  to  be  fried 
or  baked  should  be  cut  over  night  and  put  to  soak  in 
cold  water.  In  the  morning,  if  not  fresh  enough,  put 
it  in  hot  water,  drain  off,  roll  each  piece  well  in  flour 
and  place  in  a  sheet  iron  pan  in  the  oven,  let  it  brown 
on  both  sides;  it  cooks  much  nicer  in  the  oven.  Send 
the  pork  to  the  table  hot  and  crisp;  if  you  wish  to 
make  a  milk  gravy  of  some  of  the  fat,  put  it  in  a  gravy 
dish. 

Veal  Loaf. 

12  pounds  veal  )^  pound  crackers 

^  pound  butter  i  coffee  cup  water 

Have  lean  veal  chopped  line  (the  butcher  will  chop 
it  for  you),  but  prepare  it  for  chopping  yourself,  pep- 
per and  salt  it  well.      Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  well. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  235 

Cover  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  long  four-inch  wide 
pan  with  buttered  paper,  press  it  well  together.  Bake 
well  done,  from  three  to  four  hours.  Can  make  one- 
fourth  of  it.  Two  pounds  chopped  salt  pork,  three 
eggs,  a  littlec  hopped  parsley,  is  a  fine  addition  to 
the  veal. 

Veal  Croquettes. 

Cook  the  veal  tender,  and  make  and  cook  the  same 
as  chicken  croquettes. 

Veal  Patties. 

Mix  the  same  as  for  veal  loaf,  leaving  out  the  pork; 
prepare  the  crust  the  same  as  for  oyster  patties. 
Bake  the  patties,  fill  just  before  using  and  heat  hot. 

Breakfast  Puffs. 

2  eggs  I  cup  flour,  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  i  cup  milk 

I  heaping  teaspoon  baking-powder. 
Sift   flour   and   baking-powder  together  twice;  beat 
the  yolks  well;  stir  all  together  and  lastly  stir  in  the 
stifly  beaten  whites.      Fill  the   cups  half  full.      Bake 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes. 

Rusks. 

2  cups  milk  3  tablespoons  yeast 
Yi  cup  butter                         2  eggs,  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 
Put  all  in  a  sponge  the  night  before  except  the  eggs. 
In  the  morning  add  the  well-beaten  eggs;  mix  as  soft 
as  possible;  roll  out  and  cut  with  cutter.  When 
ready  to  bake  rub  over  the  top  with  the  sweetened 
beaten  white  of  an  o-g"^. 


236  TJic  Qiiccn  Cook  Book 


German  Toast.     Over  Fifty  Years  Old. 

Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  of  medium  thickness,  dip 
each  in  well  beaten  e^g  and  milk  with  salt,  sufficient 
to  moisten  (not  soak)  a  little,  then  in  cracker  crumbs 
finely  rolled.  Brown  both  sides  in  fiat  spider  as  you 
would  potatoes,  in  half  butter  and  half  lard.  It  is 
a  change  for  a  breakfast  dish. 

Baking-Powder. 

2  pounds  cream  tartar  i  pound  bi  carb.  soda 

6  ounces  corn  starch 
Mix  well  and  put  it  through  a  sieve  three  times. 

Caramel  Cream. 

Boil  two  coffee  cups  of  best  brown  sugar,  butter  the 
the  size  of  an  Q.gg,  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  thin 
sweet  cream  twelve  minutes  after  it  commences  to 
boil.  Dissolve  one-half  a  cup  of  gelatine  in  as  little 
water  as  will  dissolve  it;  add  this  to  it,  and  the  rest 
of  pint  of  cream.  Strain  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  put 
in  a  mold  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  Serve  with 
cream. 


CANDY. 

Ice  Cream  Candy. 

3  cups  white  sugar  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

^  cup  water 

Boil  without  stirring  until  when  tried  in  cold  water 

it  is  brittle.      Turn  into  a  buttered  platter,  butter  the 

hands  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  handle  and  pull  it  till 


The  Ouccii  Cook  Book  237 

it  is  white  and  j;lossy.     Flavor  and  color  it  when  ready 
for  pulling.      Cut  into  sticks. 

Fig  Candy. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  3^  pint  of  water,  and 
set  over  a  slow  tire;  when  brittle  add  a  few  drops  of 
vinegar,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  pour  onto  sliced  figs. 

Cheese  Straws. 

Mix  one  cup  of  grated  cheese  with  one  cup  of  flour, 
a  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  white  of  one,  butter  the 
size  of  an  Q.g^^.  No  water  nor  milk  must  be  added  as 
then  they  will  not  be  crisp.  Roll  out  to  less  than  a 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  in  strips  seven  or  eight 
inches  long  and  about  one-half  inch  wide;  place  on 
buttered  paper  in  long  tins;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  live  or  more  minutes;  pile  in  a  ilat  high  dish  laying 
two  one  way  and  two  the  other  in  log  cabin  style  and 
the  effect  is  very  pretty.  Tie  each  corner  w^ith  rib- 
bons. I\eep  these  in  a  tight  tin  box.  If  they  gather 
dampness,  dry  five  minutes  in  oven. 

How  TO  Pull  Candy. 

As  soon  as  it  is  boiled  brittle,  turn  it  on  a  buttered 
platter,  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  possibly  handle, 
butter  your  hands,  take  up  the  candy  what  you  can 
pull  easily,  throw  it  over  a  buttered  hook  and  pull 
both  ends  toward  you,  then  clap  it  together  and  pull 
over  the  hook  again,  repeating  it  till  the  candy  is 
white  and  creamy.  This  prevents  blistering  the 
hands. 


238  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 


Molasses  Candy, 

1  pint  N.  O.  molasses  i  pint  best  brown  sugar 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  2  tablespoons  butter 

Warm  and  mix  well  together,  then  just  boil  without 
stirring  till  brittle  when  dropped  in  very  cold  water, 
then  stir  in  two  teaspoons  of  powdered  baking  soda. 
Pull  as  directed  above.  When  pulled  enough  cut  in 
sticks. 

Cream  Chocolates. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  q^^^  on  a  plate,  then  beat  in 
two  tablespoons  of  water,  then  stir  enough  confec- 
tioner's XXX  sugar  to  make  a  stiff  paste,  about  one 
and  a  quarter  pounds,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Work 
smooth,  make  into  balls.  Melt  one-half  pound  of 
sweet  chocolate  in  basin,  stand  it  in  hot  water 
to  melt.  Set  the  balls  on  buttered  paper  in  cool 
place  for  two  or  three  hours  to  harden.  Then  with  a 
fork  dip  one  at  a  time  into  the  melted  chocolate  (keep  it 
hot  in  water),  and  place  on  the  buttered  paper  till  all 
are  dipped.      Stand  in  the  cold  over  night. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

3  pounds   sugar,    confec-      i  y^  pints  cream 
tioner's  A  i  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

6  ounces   chocolate 
Stir  and  heat  slowly  till  dissolved,  then  boil  till  it 
hardens.      Fill  pan  the  thickness  desired;  when  partly 
cool,  mark  the  squares.      For  peanut  and  walnut  candy 
put  the  nuts  into  molasses  candy. 


Tlic  Que  en  Cook  Book  239 


CARVING. 

It  is  no  trifling  accomplishment  to  be  able  to  carve 
well  and  skilfully.  It  occurs  at  least  once  a  day  in 
every  family,  and  it  is  better  for  both  men  and  women 
to  be  able  to  do  it  with  dispatch  and  elegance.  All 
display  of  over-exertion  is  in  bad  taste.  A  little  atten- 
tion and  experience  will  soon  put  one  at  ease  in  his 
seat  of  honor.  It  is  well  to  call  the  attention  of 
younger  persons  to  observe  how  it  is  done,  that  they, 
too,  may  serve  their  turn.  A  sharp  knife  is  an  abso- 
lute necessity  to  exhibit  the  ability  of  the  carver.  We 
know  it  is  not  considered  proper  to  stand  while 
carving  for  company,  though  it  is  much  easier,  but  we 
■will  not  be  fastidious.  In  roasts  such  as  ribs,  fore- 
quarters,  etc.,  the  butcher  should  be  instructed  to  sep- 
arate the  joints.  Fowls  are  easily  carved.  Ducks 
have  strong  ligaments  and  are  therefore  more  difficult 
to  carve.  Place  the  turkey  on  its  back  on  the  platter, 
as  it  was  roasted  (to  a  good  brown),  putting  the  head 
to  the  right-hand  of  the  carver.  Fix  the  fork  firmly 
in  the  lower  end  of  the  breast  and  you  need  not 
remove  it  till  the  turkey  is  nearly  all  cut  up.  First 
sever  the  legs  and  wings  on  both  sides  (if  the  whole  is 
to  be  served),  cutting  neatly  through  Hhe  joint  next 
the  body.  Then  cut  slices  from  the  breast  length- 
wise, beginning  on  the  lower  part,  and  laying  the 
pieces  neatly  on  the  side  of  the  platter;  then  unjoint 
the  legs  and  wings  at  the  middle  joint,  which  can  be 
struck  almost  exactly  by  an  expert  carver,  or  after  a 
little  practice.  Consult  the  tastes  of  the  guests  as  to 
which  part  is  preferred;  if  no  preference  is  expressed, 
serve  a  portion  of  both  light  and  dark  meat,  with  a 
spoonful  of    dressing,  and  gravy  (unless   it   is  not  de- 


240  Tlic  Oiicoi  Cook  Book 

sired).  The  dressing  is  more  accessible  if  the  bird  is 
placed  with  the  head  to  the  left.  A  chicken  is  carved 
the  same  way,  whether  roasted  or  broiled.  A  little 
more  dexterit}^  and  force  are  needed  to  carve  a  goose 
than  a  turkey,  though  carved  in  the  same  way.  The 
breast  of  a  goose  is  considered  the  choicest  part; 
all  the  meat  is  good  and  full  of  juicy  flavor. 

Roast  Duck. 

No  other  dishes  require  so  much  skill  in  carving  as 
game  and  poultry;  as  it  is  necessary  to  be  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  anatomy  of  the  bird,  or  know  just 
the  location  of  the  joints,  in  order  to  place  the  knife 
at  exactly  the  right  point.  The  wing  of  a  flyer  and 
the  leg  of  a  swimmer  are  the  most  desirable  portions 
of  a  duck,  after  the  breast. 

A  tame  duck  is  nice  stuffed  as  a  turkey  and  roasted, 
also  split  open  on  the  back  and  put  in  the  oven  in 
the  roasting  pan,  on  the  rack,  and  basted.  Wild 
ducks  should  be  split  open  on  the  back,  put  on  the 
rack  in  a  well  heated  oven,  for  twenty  minutes  or  less, 
they  should  he  rare,  but  boiling  hot  through.  When 
wild  ducks  live  on  rice  their  meat  is  much  the  richest 
eating. 

To  Make  Bread  Without  a  Sponge. 

For  the  yeast: 
4  quarts  boiled  water  12  potatoes,  pared 

2  tablespoons  white  sugar      2  tablespoons  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  i  Twin  Bros. '  yeast  cake 
Make  this  the  day  before  baking;  the  yeast  is  all  the 

wetting  you  need;  do  not  sponge  it.  The  yeast  will 
keep  two  or  three  weeks.  Pare  medium  sized  pota- 
toes and  boil  just  done  in  two  quarts  of  the  boiled 


TJic  Once II  Cook  Book  241 

water,  then  mash  and  put  through  a  colander  into  a 
crock,  with  the  water  they  were  boiled  in',  then  add 
the  other  two  quarts  of  hot  water,  making  four  quarts, 
then  sugar,  salt  and  flour;  when  it  is  cool  enough  to 
hold  the  finger  in,  add  the  yeast  soaked  in  a  cup  of 
warm  water.  Let  stand  over  night,  in  a  warm  place, 
stirring  once  an  hour  till  bed  time.  Ne.xt  morning  let 
it  get.  warm,  give  it  a  good  stir,  and  use  one  pint  of  it 
for  one  large  loaf  of  bread,  an  even  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Knead  it  twenty  minutes.  Do  not  sponge  it,  but  mix 
it  right  up  as  soft  as  you  can  knead  it,  as  other  bread, 
and  put  it  in  pans.  It  will  be  light  enough  in  three 
hours  to  bake,  while  you  are  getting  dinner.  Put  the 
rest  of  the  yeast  in  glass  cans,  seal  tight,  keep  in  cel- 
lar. Remember,  no  other  wetting  but  the  yeast.  Do 
not  use  the  bread  till  next  day,  as  no  bread  should  be 
eaten  the  day  it  is  baked. 

To  Make  Butter. 

Cream  at  a  temperature  of  58°  Fahrenheit,  will 
churn  in  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Do  not 
churn  on  the  gallop  but  with  a  quiet  steady  hand 
without  leaving  it.  When  it  comes  whirl  the  dasher 
some,  to  gather  the  particles  of  butter  together.  Do 
not  have  it  soft,  as  no  standing  will  make  it  right 
again.  Some  prefer  to  take  it  up  into  very  cold  water 
to  work  out  the  first  buttermilk,  others  think  it  not 
well  to  do  so.  Put  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  salt  to 
every  pound  of  butter,  working  out  the  buttermilk  so 
as  not  to  mash  the  grain  (this  is  a  knack  or  quality 
that  few  possess),  work  it  ten  minutes,  then  set  it 
away  till  next  morning,  taste  to  see  if  it  is  salt  enough, 
if  not,  add  more  and  work  it  again  till  all  the  butter- 
milk is  out.     Make  it  into  rolls  and  keep  it  in  a  cool 


242  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

place,  covered  tight,  as  it  absorbs  everything  in 
the  atmosphere.  Butter  made  while  the  cow  can 
obtain  grass,  from  the  tirst  of  June  to  the  last  of  Octo- 
ber, has  a  superior  flavor  and  is  esteemed  more  highly 
than  that  made  in  winter.  Winter  butter  can  be  im- 
proved by  feeding  the  cows  silage  that  is  clean  and 
sweet,  with  plenty  of  grain  or  well  cured  green  cut 
clover  or  corn  stalks  cut  and  gathered  green;  add  to 
these  generous  feedings  of  bran  middlings  with  one 
quart  of  corn  meal  in  it,  or  linseed  meal.  Put  a  little 
salt  in  her  food  and  do  not  give  her  very  cold  water  in 
the  five  winter  months.  One  new  milch  cow  will  im- 
prove the  flavor  of  all  the  butter  from  a  small  herd. 
Butter  gains  nothing  by  being  kept  over  two  or  three 
weeks  and  loses  much  in  delicacy  of  flavor  by  such 
treatment.  The  flavor  of  the  Jersey  milk  and  butter 
is  going  into  disrepute.  Cows  fed  upon  rich  nutritious 
food,  with  some  corn  meal  and  yellow  carrots  will 
make  more  highly  colored  butter  than  if  fed  on 
hay.  The  ripening  of  the  cream  decides  largel}- 
the  flavor  of  the  butter  in  winter.  Sour  cream  makes 
the  best  butter,  but  not  aged.  About  sixty  or  sixty- 
five  degrees  will  ripen  it  in  twenty-four  hours.  Skim 
each  milking  when  it  is  t^^•enty-four  hours  old,  whether 
sour  or  not,  and  for  the  cream  from  each  cow  put  in 
the  cream  crock  two  cups  of  sour  buttermilk  from  the 
last  churning  as  a  starter  in  the  winter  and  keep  the 
cream  at  a  temperature  of  fifty-eight  degrees,  which  is 
right  for  churning,  some  say  sixty-two;  try  it.  A 
thermometer  to  test  the  cream  is  as  necessary  as  a 
churn.  Irenasus  of  the  New  York  Observer  tells  us 
of  a  Mr.  Starr,  a  friend  of  his  that  lived  at  Litchfield, 
Connecticut,  who  had  a  splendid  dairy.  "  Mr.  Starr's 
method  of  setting  his  milk  for  cream,  is  not  in  shallov. 
pans,  as  the  women  of  old   were  wont  to   do;    but  in 


The  Ouccu  Cook  Book  243 

narrow  vessels  about  twenty  inches  deep,  standing  in 
ice  water,  or  a  very  cold  place.  Not  only  does  this 
low  temperature  reduce  the  process  of  change  to  a 
minimum,  but  quite  unexpectedly,  it  also  greatly  facil- 
itates the  rising  of  the  cream,  as  the  cream  is  nearly 
all  obtained  in  twelve  hours.  The  butter  churned 
from  the  product  is  not  only  pure  in  flavor,  but  has 
remarkable  keeping  qualities.  The  plan  is  spreading 
rapidly."     This  might  work  in  a  large  dairy. 

Celery. 

Earthing  up  celery  is  necessary  when  it  is  wanted 
for  autunni  or  early  winter  use;  but  for  late  winter  and 
spring  we  never  had  clearer  and  whiter  stalks  than 
from  those  plants  which  were  not  earthed  up  at  all. 
Just  before  winter  sets  in  we  had  the  plants  carefully 
lifted  out  with  a  spade,  the  roots  with  the  earth  partly 
shaken  off,  the  plants  then  neatly  and  compactly 
placed  upright  in  a  trench,  in  a  hollow  where  the 
wind  could  not  blow,  and  covered  with  a  foot  of  dead 
leaves.  They  were  perfectly  blanched  in  this  trench, 
and  kept  better  than  when  the  blanching  had  been 
previously  done.  This  is  easily  taken  out  when 
v/anted. 

An  Ice  House. 

Make  a  bin  in  the  open  air  fourteen  by  sixteen  feet, 
of  hemlock  boards,  with  four-inch  scantling  for  posts, 
and  roof  it  over,  leaving  the  gable  ends  and  three 
feet  on  the  front  side  open.  Fill  in  with  six  inches  of 
course  chips  for  drainage;  and  put  on  these  ten 
inches  of  saw  dust.  Pack  the  ice  in  the  center,  and 
cover  top  and  sides  with  eighteen  inches  of  saw  dust. 
The  ice  will  keep  perfectly.  Build  it  in  the  shade  if 
possible. 


544  Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book 


Gruels  for  the  Sick. 

The  lightest  possible  gruel  is  made  by  taking  two 
heaping  tablespoons  of  yellow  corn  meal,  pour  upon  it 
one  teacup  cold  water  and  stir  well.  Let  settle  a 
little  and  pour  this  water  off  into  a  teacup  of  water  at 
a  keen  boil  and  scald  for  five  minutes.     A  little  salt. 

Milk  Porridge. 

One  pint  of  milk,  wet  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour 
with  two  tablespoons  of  the  cold  milk,  a  little  salt,  stir 
this  into  the  boiling  milk.  Boil  three  to  six  minutes. 
Excellent  for  diarrhoea. 

Oat  Meal  Gruel. 

Into  one  quart  of  boiling  water  or  milk  as  you  like, 
stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  oat  meal  and  a  little  salt. 
Boil  forty  minutes  and  strain  if  you  like. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel. 

1  quart  water  or  milk  i  tablespoon  flour 

2  tablespoons  corn  meal      i  teaspoon  salt 

Wet  the  flour  and  meal  and  pour  into  the  boiling 
water.      Boil  forty  minutes. 

Cracker  Panada. 

Put  in  double  boiler  one  quart  of  milk  or  water  as 
the  patient  can  bear,  stir  in  six  tablespoons  of  sifted 
rolled  cracker  and  one  half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Let  boil 
three  minutes.  Add  a  little  nutmeg,  sugar  and  wine 
if  you  like. 


TJlc  Queen  Cook  Book  .245 


Arrowroot   Gruel. 

To  one  pint  of  milk  or  water,  one  teaspoon  of  arrow- 
root, a  little  salt;  wet  it  with  cold  milk,  stir  it  in  the 
boiling  milk,  and  boil  ten  minutes  in  double  boiler. 

Ice  Cream  for  the  Sick. 

1  cup  milk  I  pint  cream 

I  teaspoon  arrowroot  ^  cup  sugar 

Scald  it  all  and  freeze  as  directed. 

Veal  Sweet  Breads. 

These  are  considered  a  great  delicacy  by  some. 
There  are  two  in  a  calf,  one  from  near  the  heart  called 
the  "  heart  sweet  bread,"  the  other  from  the  neck 
called  the  "throat  sweet  bread."  The  first  is  most 
delicate.  They  spoil  \er3'  soon  and  need  to  be  en- 
gaged beforehand,  that  the  butcher  may  send  them  to 
you  as  soon  as  the  animal  is  dressed.  Put  it  imme- 
diately in  warm  water,  to  which  add  a  tablespoon  of 
salt,  to  soak  out  the  blood;  soak  one  hour,  then  wash 
it  in  cold  water.  Draw  strips  of  salt  pork  through  it 
and  put  in  good  soup  stock  or  water  and  boil  twenty 
minutes.  As  soon  as  cool  enough  remove  the  skinny 
portions  and  pipes.  Cook  in  granite  kettle  and  use  a 
silver  knife  and  fork,  as  they  contain  a  peculiar  acid 
that  acts  upon  iron  or  tin.  After  it  is  thus  prepared 
you  can  fricassee,  slice  and  fry,  broil  or  bake,  after 
rubbing  it  with  butter  and  seasoning. 

MU^ROOMS. 

As  we  so  often  see  the  notice,  "  Died  from  toadstool 
in  mistake  for  nuishrooms,"  I  have  refrained  from 
giving  the  different  recipes  for  cooking  mushrooms,  as 


246  The  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book 

I  feel  the  risk  is  too  great  for  the  pleasure  it  might 
give.  Any  real  nuishrooins  are  poisonous  if  picked 
over  an  hour  after  they  are  open.  If  any  one  will  eat 
them,  they  can  be  stewed,  baked  or  broiled,  with  sea- 
soning of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  I  quote: 
"  The  difference  between  a  toadstool  and  a  mushroom 
is  the  difference  between  an  eel  and  a  rattlesnake — in 
effect.  There  is  but  one  sure  way  of  telling  the  differ- 
ence. The  stems  of  the  mushrooms  are  generally 
shorter,  thicker,  and  invariably  solid;  the  stems  of  the 
toadstools  are  hollow."  This  author  says  he  has  picked 
and  eaten  many  mushrooms,  using  this  test  alone. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

Making  Over  Hair  Mattresses. 

Empty  the  tick,  wash  it  nicely  with  hard  soap  and 
enough  borax  to  soften  the  water.  Spread  the  hair 
on  clean  boards  or  sheets,  and  whip  the  dust  out 
entirely  then  pick  it  up  fine.  If  for  any  reason  it 
should  need  washing,  wash  it  in  warm  suds,  rinse  and 
spread  to  dry.  Weigh  all  the  hair,  then  weigh  one- 
fourth  for  each  corner  of  tick.  Dividing  this  way 
will  be  of  great  assistance  in  getting  it  evenly  laid. 
•You  need  a  mattress  needle  and  strong  twine.  Put 
the  under  tuft  in  first,  in  a  slip,  a  noose,  at  the  end  of 
the  double  twine,  then  put  the  needle  up  through 
the  mattress,  tie  it  tight,  then  tie  in  the  upper  tuft 
with  three  knots. 

To  Clean  a  Teakettle  of  Lime. 

The  thick  incrustations  that  form  upon  the  inside  of 
teakettles  when  hard  water  is  used,  can  be  easily  re- 
moved by  putting  in  two  quarts  of  ashes  and  filling  up 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book  247 

with  water,  let  boil  and  soak  three  hours.  While  hot 
empty  it  out  and  scrape  it  clean  with  an  iron  spoon. 
It  will  easily  peel  off. 

To  Clean    Moldy  Jugs. 

Wash  clean  with  ashes  and  soapsuds,  rinse  well,  fill 
with  hot  water,  put  in  a  teaspoon  of  carbolic  acid,  set 
it  away  from  sight  where  no  one  will  see  it  for  a  few 
hours,  as  it  is  a  deadly  poison.  Then  empty  it  and 
wash  and  rinse  well  and  it  will  be  as  sweet  as  if  it  had 
not  been  tainted. 

Ropy  Milk. 

When  the  milk  is  ropy  there  is  probably  inflamma- 
tion of  the  udder.  The  milk  is  acid,  and  becomes 
clotted;  this  is  a  conditional  defect  arising  from  dis- 
eased blood.  An  authorit}'  writes,  give  a  dose  of 
twelve  ounces  of  Epsom  salts,  and  before  milking  in- 
ject by  a  syringe,  one-fourth  of  a  pint  of  solution  of 
carbonate  of  soda  into  the  teat,  and  after  fifteen 
minutes  milk  it  out.  Dissolve  one-fourth  of  a  tea- 
spoon of  soda  in  one-half  cup  of  warm  water. 

Care  of  Canaries. 

Clean  the  cage  thoroughly  every  morning,  and  accus- 
tom them  to  plenty  of  light  and  company,  but  not  to 
sudden  noises;  do  not  hang  the  cage  in  a  draft.  Give 
it  clean  water  for  its  bath  every  morning.  Feed  it  with 
mixed  canary  seed,  a  piece  of  bread  and  occasionally 
spread  it  with  a  little  butter  and  sprinkle  a  very  little 
red  pepper  on  it,  give  it  a  lump  of  sugar,  a  cuttle 
bone,  apple,  a  little  sand  in  bottom  of  cage,  and  in 
the  summer  chick  weed.      If  at  any  time  the  bird  is 


248  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

hoarse,  give  it  a  piece  of  fat  salt  pork  and  see  how 
lie  will  enjoy  it,  and  listen  for  the  result.  If  he  ap- 
pears dumpy  remember  the  bread  and  butter  with  the 
sprinkle  of  red  pepper.  If  kept  perfectly  clean  no 
vermin  will  come  to  them,  but  if  you  only  clean 
them  twice  a  week  there  is  danger.  If  you  are  so 
unfortunate  as  to  have  these  pests  clean  thoroughly, 
take  the  cage  to  pieces,  boil  the  perches,  then  put  in  a 
lump  of  sugar;  they  will  bury  themselves  in  it,  and 
also  a  little  bit  of  cotton  on  each  end  of  perch  to 
attract  those  that  still  remain  on  the  bird.  Remove 
and  burn  it  and  the  sugar  daily  and  clean  the  same 
way  and  they  will  be  gone  soon.  Never  allow  any 
one  to  tease  a  bird. 

Pure  Unfermented  Wine. 

Use  perfectly  ripe  grapes,  wash,  pick  out  all  defect- 
ive ones;  mash  with  the  hands,  scald,  press  out  the 
juice,  boil  it  gently  until  all  the  scum  rises,  skim  it 
repeatedly  till  clear,  and  bottle  Vvhile  hot,  cork  and 
seal,  or  put  it  in  tight  fruit  jars.  Keep  in  a  cool, 
dark  place.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  when  used.  The 
above  is  considered  the  best  for  communion  purposes. 

To  Insure  Long  Life. 

Dr.  Abernethey,  the  great  Scotch  physician's  secret 
of  success  in  the  healing  art,  and  rules  of  living  to  in- 
sure longevity,  found  among  his  effects  in  a  sealed 
envelope,  and  for  which  $5,000  was  paid,  contained 
these  words:  "  To  insure  continued  health,  and  a 
ripe  old  age,  keep  the  head  cool,  the  feet  v^'arm,  and 
the  system  open.  To  secure  these  conditions  keep 
the  ten  commandments,  observe  the  laws  of  life  and 
the  science  of  health."     If  one  does  not  know  how, 


The  Qiicoi  Cook  Book  249 

take  some  good  health  journal.  Eight  hours'  sleep 
each  da}'.  Open  air  exercise  every  day.  Air  the 
sleeping  room  from  one  to  two  hours  daily.  The  use 
of  plain  food  with  plenty  of  fruit.  Frequent  bathing. 
Flannel  of  some  kind  next  the  skin  the  year  round. 

The  Brain, 
It  is  not  so  much  intellectual  work  that  injures  the 
brain,  if  one  takes  physical  exercise,  but  undue  emo- 
tional excitement.  Most  men  can  stand  the  severest 
thought  and  study  of  which  their  brains  are  capable, 
and  be  none  the  worse  for  it,  provided  they  can  re- 
cuperate with  quiet  sleep  and  out-of-door  exercise. 
It  is  over  ambition,  anxiety,  disappointment,  bad 
habits,  the  hopes  and  fears,  the  loves  and  hates  of 
our  lives,  that  wear  out  the  nervous  system,  and  en- 
danger the  balance  of  the  brain. 

Tooth  Ache  or  Neuralgia. 
A  white  flannel  bag  filled  with  good  hops  wet  with 
boiling  water  and  applied  hot,  is  sometimes  wonderful 
in  its  power  to  sooth  a  tooth-ache,  a  neuralgia  head- 
ache or  a  sharp  pain  anywhere,  and  send  the  patient 
to  sleep. 

Warts  and  Corns. 
Rub  the  wart  with  lemon  and  bind  on  a  piece  three 
times  a  day  for  a  week.      The  wart  will  diminish  till 
it  disappears.      Do  the  same  with  corns,  rubbing  night 
and  morning  and  bind  on  at  night. 

Poisoning. 
In  case  of  poisoning  the  simple  rule  is  to  get  the 
poison  out  of  the  stomach  instantly,  for  it  assimilates 
very  soon.      Mustard  and  salt  act  very  promptly  and 


2 so  The  Quail  Cook  Book 

are  always  at  hand.  Stir  a  teaspoonful  of  each  in  a 
glass  of  water  and  swallow  it  quickly.  If  it  does  not 
cause  vomiting  in  five  minutes,  repeat  the  dose. 
After  vomiting,  give  the  unbeaten  whites  of  two  or 
three  eggs.  Send  for  the  doctor  the  first  thing,  but 
go  right  to  work  with  the  emetic. 

The  Complexion. 
As  so  many  ladies  are  in  the  habit  of  using  dry  mag- 
nesia as  a  toilet  powder,  I  feel  constrained  to  warn 
them  against  it,  both  from  observation  and  from  the 
pronouncing  of  chemists  that  it  is  very  injurious  to  the 
skin,  as  it  dries  the  cuticle  and  causes  the  skin  to  be- 
come rough  and  scaly.  If  you  have  used  it,  we  advise 
you  to  stop  at  once,  and  heal  the  face  with  a  weak 
solution  of  borax,  water  and  a  little  glycerine. 
Most  toilet  powders  on  the  market  contain  magnesia. 
The  curious  prejudice  that  some  people  have  against 
using  soap  on  the  face,  is  a  great  fallacy.  Good  toilet 
soap  is  the  best  purifier  and  preventive  of  the  uncomel}- 
looking  blackheads  so  often  seen.  But  if  you  have 
them,  wash  daily  with  a  cloth,  warm  water  and  soap. 
Press  them  out  with  the  open  end  of  a  watch  key. 

To  Cure  a  Stv, 
Rub  into  a  small  pinch  of  powdered  alum  enough 
of  the  v.'hite  of  an  &^g  to  make  a  paste.  It  v\ill  be- 
come a  curd.  Put  it  between  two  fine  pieces  of  thin 
goods  and  bind  it  on  the  eye  at  night.  It  is  said  the 
sty  will  be  gone  in  the  morning. 

Insect  Bites  and  Stings. 
The  bites  of  mosquitoes,  bees,  wasps,  hornets,  scor- 
pions, may  be  instantly  relieved  b3'the  immediate  and 
free   application  of  ammonia  (hartshorn)  as  a  wash  to 


The   Queen  Cook  Book  25 1 

the  part  bitten.      Then  cover  it  with  a  cloth  dipped  in 
sweet  oil. 


Cure  for  Rattlesnake  Poison. 

This  is  a  convenient  and  simple  remed}',  used  by  the 
Indians  more  than  one  hundred  years  ago,  and  by  the 
early  settlers  of  our  country.  A  small  cupful  of  the  juice 
of  the  plantain  weed,  which  is  to  be  found  along  the 
roadbed  and  in  nearly  every  country  door  3'ard.  Inquiry 
made  among  farmers  and  country  people  generally,  elic- 
ited the  information  that  plaintain  v/eed  is  used  exten- 
sively for  poulticing,  to  heal  running  sores,  and  to 
break  up  cases  of  chills  and  fever.  Dr.  A.  H.  Palmer, 
of  Marlborough,  N.  Y.,  says  that  a  handful  of  plan- 
tain leaves  made  into  a  cup  of  tea,  breaks  up  severe 
attacks  of  certain  malarial  disorders  when  other  spe- 
cifics fail.  Wood  choppers  on  the  Shawangunk  Mount- 
ains say  they  have  long  known  that  plaintain  juice 
would  prevent  fatal  results  from  the  bite  of  a  rattle- 
snake. Toads  and  other  animals  seem  to  know  the 
medicinal  properties  of  the  plantain  weed.  When 
bitten  by  a  snake  they  in\ariably  hop  to  where  the 
specific  can  be  found.  Also  apply  ammonia  to  the 
wound  iimnediately. 

What  to  do  in  a  Thunder  Storm 

In  the  open  air,  during  violent  storms  of  any  kind, 
the  safest  situation  is  to  keep  aloof  froni  trees,  and 
as  far  as  possible  from  any  and  all  elevated  structures 
and  regard  the  storm,  the  torrents  of  rain,  though  it 
may  saturate  the  clothes,  as  a  protection  against  the 
lightning's  stroke;  for  wet  clothes  would  supply  so  good 
a  conductor  that  a  very  large  amount  of  electricity 
would  pass  over  a  person's  body  through  them,    while 


252  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

the  person  would  be  quite  unconscious  of  it.  The 
rain  itself,  in  its  usual  form,  is  one  of  the  best  con- 
ductors known  to  modern  chemists  and  electricians. 
Lightning-  rods  are  said  to  be  no  protection  unless  they 
reach  water  in  the  earth. 

The  Laughing  Cure. 

A  shrewd  lady  who  had  recovered  from  a  decline, 
was  asked  what  cured  her.  "  I  stopped  worrying  and 
began  to  laugh,  that  is  all,"  was  the  reply. 

Piano. 

Do  not  always  keep  the  piano  closed,  if  you  wish 
the  kej's  to  remain  white.  If  the  keys  do  not  respond 
read!]\',  there  is  dampness  inside;  open  the  top  till 
all  right,  then  open  it  once  a  week. 

For    Hives  in  Children. 

Rub  the  irritated  skin  or  postules  with  castor  oil 
applied  with  the  fingers.      Baby  will  soon  slumber. 

Restoring  the  Drcavned. 

[Prepared  by  Dr.  Benjamin  Howard,  approved  by  the  Academy 
of  Medicine  and  adopted  by  the  Liie  Saving  Societ}'  of  New 
York.] 

The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  arouse  the  patient  if 
possible  without  moving  him.  Instantl}'  expose  the  face 
to  a  current  of  fresh  air;  wipe  dry  the  mouth  and  nostrils, 
rip  the  clothing  so  as  to  expose  the  chest  and  waist, 
and  give  two  or  three  quick  smarting  slaps  on  the 
stomach  and  chest  with  the  open  hand.  If  the 
patient  does  not  revive,  then  proceed  as  follows: 

Kii/e  I.  Turn  the  patient  on  his  face,  a  large 
bundle  of  tightly-rolled  clothing  being  placed  beneath 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  253 

his  stomach,  and  press  heavily  over  it  for  half  a 
minute,  or  so  long  as  fluids  flow  freely  from  the 
mouth. 

Rule  I/.  Turn  the  patient  on  his  back,  the  roll  of 
clothing  being  so  placed  beneath  it  as  to  raise  the  pit 
of  the  stomach  above  the  level  of  any  other  part  of  the 
body.  If  there  be  another  person  present,  let  him, 
with  a  piece  of  dry  cloth,  hold  the  tip  of  the  tongue  out 
of  one  corner  of  the  mouth,  and  with  the  other  hand 
grasp  both  wrists  and  keep  the  arms  forcibly  stretched 
back  above  the  head.  The  position  prevents  the 
tongue  from  falling  back  and  choking  the  entrance  to 
the  windpipe,  and  increasing  the  prominence  of  the 
ribs  tends  to  enlarge  the  chest;  it  is  not,  however, 
essential  to  success. 

Kneel  beside,  or  astride  the  patient's  hips,  and  with 
the  balls  of  the  thumbs  resting  on  either  side  the  pit 
of  the  stomach,  let  the  fingers  fall  into  the  grooves 
between  the  short  ribs,  so  as  to  afford  the  best  grasp 
of  the  waist.  Now,  using  your  knees  as  a  pivot, 
throw  all  your  weight  forward  on  your  hands,  and  at 
the  same  time  squeeze  the  waist  between  them,  as  if 
you  wished  to  force  everything  in  the  chest  upward 
out  of  the  mouth;  deepen  the  pressure  while  you  can 
count  slowly,  one,  two,  three;  then  suddenly  let  go 
with  a  final  push,  which  springs  you  back  to  your  first 
kneeling  position.  Remain  erect  on  \'our  knees  while 
you  can  count  one,  two;  then  repeat  the  same  motions 
as  before,  at  a  rate  gradually  increased  froni  four  or 
five  to  fifteen  times  in  a  minute,  and  continue  thus  this 
bellows  movement  with  the  same  regulcirity  that  is 
observable  in  the  natural  motions  of  breathing,  which 
you  are  imitating. 

Continue  thus  for  from  one  to  two  hours,  or  until 
the  patient  breathes;  for  awhile  after,  carefully  deepen 


2  54  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

the  first  short  gasps  into  full  breaths,  and  continue  the 
drying  and  rubbing,  which  should  have  been  unceas- 
ingly practiced  from  the  beginning. 

AFTER    TREATMENT. 

As  soon  as  the  breathing  has  been  established,  strip 
the  patient,  wrap  him  in  blankets  only,  put  him  in  a 
bed  comfortably  warm,  but  with  a  free  circulation  of 
fresh  air,  and  leave  him  to  perfect  rest.  If  necessary 
give  a  little  hot  brandy  and  water,  or  other  stimu- 
lant at  hand,  for  every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  for  the 
first  hour,  and  as  often  thereafter  as  may  seem  expe- 
dient. 

Family  Remedies. 

To  inhale  turpentine  has  proved  of  great  service  in 
bronchitis,  pneumonia,  pleurisy  and  other  throat  and 
lung  affections.  If  you  have  a  cough,  sprinkle  a  little 
on  a  cloth  and  hold  it  to  your  mouth  and  nose  for  a 
few  minutes,  breathing  the  odor  and   note  the  relief. 

For  all  Lung  Trouble. 

Mix  equal  parts  of  turpentine  and  olive  tar;  bathe 
the  spot  affected  daily  and  cover  with  oiled  silk.  Wear 
it  night  and  day  till  well,  and  for  a  cough  take  wild 
black  cherry  cough  syrup  also. 

Wild  Black  Cherry  Cough  Syrup. 

^  pound  wild  black  cherry     3  pounds  loaf  sugar 
bark  ,  i  quart  water 

4  oz.  tincture  ipecacuanha     4  oz.  paregoric 

4  oz.  tincture  bloodroot         4  oz.  antimonial  wine 
Take  the  inside  of  the  bark,  soak  it  over  night  in  an 

earthen  covered  dish.      In  the  morning  let  it  simmer 


Tltc  Ouccii  Cook  Book  255 

(not  boil)  till  reduced  to  one  pint  of  the  water;  keep  it 
covered  all  the  time.  The  bark  will  absorb  some  of 
the  water.  Strain  it  hot  on  the  sugar,  then  stir 
in  the  other  four  ingredients.  Set  the  pitcher 
of  syrup  in  hot  water  to  dissolve  the  sugar; 
keep  it  covered.  When  sugar  is  dissolved  bot- 
tle and  cork  tightly.  Dose:  one  teaspoon  every 
four  hours,  or  pour  some  in  a  cup  and  set  beside 
you  and  sip  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon  whenever  you 
cough,  if  bad.  This  has  cured  the  writer  of  a  bad  cough 
some  three  times,  but  do  not  let  your  cough  continue  a 
year  or  two  before  taking  it,  or  applying  the  olive  tar 
and  then  say  "  it  does  no  good."  I  know  of  three 
persons  who  had  coughed  a  long  time,  whose  lives 
were  prolonged  many  years  by  the  use  of  it.  Obtain 
fresh  bark  from  the  tree. 

Cough  Syrup. 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  unboiled  linseed  oil,  Holland 
gin  and  strained  honey  well  together.  Dose:  Take 
one  teaspoon  every  three  hours  or  sip  some  every  time 
you  cough.  This  is  excellent  for  a  common  cough  or 
where  one  coughs  when  attempting  to  speak. 

Cough  Syrup. 

I  ounce  gum  arabic  i  ounce  liquorice  extract 

I  ounce  paregoric  i  ounce  tinct.  bloodroot. 

Mix  loaf  sugar  enough  with  this  for  a  syrup.  Dose: 
Take  one  teaspoon  every  four  hours  or  so. 

Rhubarb  Syrup  for  Infants. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  of  floured  Turkey  rhubarb, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  gills  of  the  best  French 
brandy,  two  gills  of  soft  \\ater,  lump  sugar  for  a  syrup. 


256  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

Dose:     one-half    to    a    teaspoon,    according    to    age. 
Good  for  an  acid  stomach. 

Burns. 

The  white  of  an  egg  is  very  ef^cacious  for  burns. 
Seven  or  eight  appHcations  will  sooth  the  pain  and  ex- 
clu'de  the  burned  part  from  the  air.  I  should  try  a 
flour  paste,  made  of  egg  and  Hour,  just  stiff  enough 
not  to  run ;  spread  it  on  a  cloth  and  change  it  as  often 
as  it  begins  to  dry.  Another  good  remedy  is  to 
moisten  saleratus  enough  to  make  a  paste  and  spread 
it  on  a  cloth;  if  it  gets  dry  dampen  and  add  more. 

Stair  Rods. 

Clean  brass  stair  rods  with  kerosene  oil  and  rotten 
stone.  Rub  long  and  hard  and  polish  with  chamois 
skin  and  they  will  keep  bright  a  year. 

Flat  Irons. 

Clean  smoothing  irons  by  rubbing  over  them  a  piece 
of  beeswax  in  a  cloth  while  hot.  Salts  of  lemon  will 
take  stains  from  ivory  knife  handles. 

Corns. 

Apply  at  night  a  poultice  made  of  dry  bread  soaked 
in  vinegar,  in  the  morning  the  soreness  will  be  gone 
and  the  corn  can  be  removed;  if  not,  do  it  for  three 
times  or  through  the  day,  if  yoa  can.  A  piece  of 
lemon  bound  on  will  sometimes  take  out  the  soreness 
so  it  can  be  cut. 

Another — 

To  cure  corns,  let  a  small  piece  of  potash  remain  in 
the  open  air  until  it  slakes,  then  thicken  to  a  paste 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  257 

with  pulverized  gum  arabic.  Pare  the  corn  and  apply 
the  paste,  leaving  it  on  ten  minutes;  soak  the  corn  in 
strong  hot  vinegar  for  a  little  while,  then  leave  it  alone 
and  it  will  soon  come  out.  Do  not  wear  too  tight 
shoes.  The  ring  corn  plasters  are  found  to  be  a  great 
relief.  Wet  it  and  hold  it  on  till  dry.  Keep  a  stock- 
ing on  all  night,  that  it  may  not  rub  off.  Wear  them 
continuously,  till  3'ou  can  cut  the  corn  off. 

Lockjaw. 
Let  any  one  who  has  an  attack  of  lockjaw  take  a 
small  quantity  of  turpentine,  warm  it  and  pour  it  on 
the  wound,  no  matter  where  the  wound  is,  and  relief 
will  follow  in  less  than  a  minute.  Nothing  better  can 
be  applied  to  a  severe  cut  or  bruise  than  cold  turpen- 
tine; it  will  give  certain  relief.  If  too  severe  mix  it 
with  sweet  oil,  half  and  half. 

Swelled  Feet  and  Ankles. 
Take  plantain  leaves,  v^hich  can  be  found  in  almost 
any  wet  grass-plat;  wilt  them  by  putting  separately 
between  the  hands  and  warming  them;  cover  the 
swollen  parts  with  them,  and  keep  in  place  by  winding 
a  narrow  strip  of  cloth  around  in  spiral  form.  Keep 
them  on  day  and  night,  renewing  as  they  dry. 

For  Burns. 
Procure  a   few  ounces  of  palm   oil    from  a  tallow 
chandler,  it  is  like  lard;  spread  it  on  a  cloth  and  apply. 
It  will  cure  the  worst  burns. 

Chilblains. 

1  oz.  Burgundy  pitch  i  oz.  sperm  oil 

2  oz.  beeswax  i^  oz.  turpentine 
Simmer  the  first  three  ingredients  well  together,  and 


258  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

when  nearly  cool  add  the  turpentine.  Spread  on  a 
cloth  and  put  the  plaster  on  the  affected  spot,  after  the 
feet  have  been  well  washed  in  very  hot  water.  If  not 
relieved  in  three  days  repeat  the  process. 

Home  Messenger. 

Another  remedy  is,  take  off  the  boot  and  hold  the 
foot,  with  the  sock  on,  as  near  the  fire  as  one  can  stand 
the  heat;  if  it  gets  too  hot  to  bear  withdraw  it,  and  put 
it  near  the  fire  again.  Heat  it  in  this  way  for  ten 
minutes,  keeping  it  as  hot  as  the  pain  will  permit  with- 
out blistering.  Repeat  every  time  it  returns,  after 
bathing  the  parts  with  a  mixture  of  kerosene  oil  and 
salt.  This  is  too  severe  for  children — must  use  the 
plaster  for  children. 

Acidity  of  the  Stomach. 

A  sufferer  from  want  of  appetite  and  acid  stomach 
can  be  greatly  benefited  by  leaving  all  medicines 
alone,  and  for  a  time  existing  entirely  on  milk  and  lime- 
water.  A  tablespoon  of  lime-water  to  a  tumbler  of 
milk.  If  this  disagrees  in  any  wa}',  increase  the  quan- 
tity of  lime-water.  This  is  made  by  taking  a  bowl  of 
unslacked  lime,  and  pour  on  slowly  several  quarts  of 
boiling  water,  perhaps  three  or  four;  till  well,  let 
settle  over  night  and  bottle  it. 

Toothache. 

Go  to  a  dentist  and  have  it  cleaned  and  filled.  If 
not  near  a  dentist,  saturate  a  piece  of  cotton  with  cam- 
phor or  peppermint  and  put  it  in  the  cavity,  and  bathe 
the  side  of  the  face  with  it. 


TJie  Que  en  Cook  Book  259 


Washes  for  Inflamed  Eyes. 
Wash  frequently  in  as  hot  rain  water  as  you  can 
bear,  then  lay  the  warm  wet  cloth  on.  If  that  does 
not  cure,  wash  them  in  green  tea.  If  neither  of  these 
cure,  take  sulph.  zinc,  two  grains;  wine  of  opium,  ten 
drops;  distilled  water,  one  ounce;  mix.  Lie  flat  on 
the  back  and  drop  two  or  three  drops  in  the  outer 
corner  of  the  eye  three  times  a  day. 

Consumption. 
Dr.  Marshall  Hall,  an  eminent  physician,  says,  "  If 
I  were  seriously  ill  of  consumption,  I  would  live  out  of 
doors,  except  in  rainy  weather  or  mid-winter."  Lift 
the  windows  more  or  less  every  night  according  to 
weather,  wearing  something  over  the  head,  but  have 
plenty  of  fresh  air  to  breathe  every  breath.  An  ex- 
cellent thing  to  ease  a  cough  is  to  drjnk  plentifully 
of  slippery-elm  and  flaxseed  teas,  mixed  with  loaf  sugar 
and  lemon  juice.      Use  wild  cherry  cough  syrup. 

Indigestion. 
It  is  said  that  Voltaire  was  once  troubled  for  nearly 
a  year  with  decay  of  the  stomach  and  the  difficulty  of 
finding  any  kind  of  food  it  could  bear.  Voltaire  said 
he  was  cured  by  taking  no  other  food  than  the  follow- 
ing prescription  recoinmended  by  Sir  John  Sinclair: 
Beat  up  an  ^^^  and  then  add  six  tablespoons  of  cold 
water,  mixing  well  together;  then  add  two  tablespoons 
of  farina  of  potatoes;  mix  it  well  in  the  ^^g\  then  pour 
in  as  much  boiling  w-ater  only  as  will  convert  the 
whole  into  a  jelly,  stirring  well.  It  may  be  taken 
alone  or  with  the  addition  of  a  little  milk  in  case  of 
stomachic  debility  from  consumptive  disorders. 

Scientific  American. 


26o  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 


Catarrh. 

A  twenty-year  sufferer  was  cured  of  this  disease  by 
smoking  dried  mullen  leaves,  three  times  a  day,  two 
or  three  pipes  full  at  a  time.  Close  the  mouth  and 
draw  the  smoke  through  the  nostrils.  It  is  some  six  or 
seven  years  since  the  cure.  Received  some  benefit 
after  one  week;  would  advise  smoking  one  or  two 
years  till  cured. 

A  Catarrh  Snuff. 

Rad  Senika  oi  Chlorate  potass,  oii 

Pulverize  very  fine;  mix.       Snuff  a  pinch  at  a  time. 

Dr.   Wni.  SniitJi. 

Sore  Nipples. 

Bathe  with  a  strong  decoction  of  best  Japan  tea; 
make  it  fresh  every  day.  Bathe  and  let  dry  and  put 
on  a  plaster  of  Dalley's  pain  extractor  or  ointment. 
Repeat  this  every  eight  hours,  after  nursing.  Do  not 
nurse  the  child  but  once  in  four  hours,  giving  rest  to 
each  side  eight  hours.  Wash  off  before  nursing.  A 
sure  cure,  if  rightly  used. 

A  Remedy  for  Croup. 

Let  a  healthy  person  fill  his  lungs  with  pure  air; 
then  slowly  breathe  upon  the  patient's  throat  and 
chest,  commencing  at  the  point  of  the  chin  and  mov- 
ing slowly  down  to  the  bottom  of  the  windpipe.  Re- 
peat for  a  few  minutes  and  it  will  give  relief  in  cases 
where  all  other  means  fail.  My  boy  was  always  sub- 
ject to  croup;  came  near  dying  with  the  rattling  noisy 
kind   at  about   eleven  months  old.      I  saved  him  with 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  261 

fomentations  of  warm  water  (as  hot  as  they  can  bear). 
When  three  years  old  I  let  him  play  in  the  brook  one 
warm,  rainy  day  and  he  took  a  severe  cold  and  had 
the  still  kind  of  croup.  In  spite  of  all  I  could  do  he 
grew  constantly  worse  until  he  could  only  gasp  and 
breathe  with  his  head  thrown  back.)  I  applied  the 
breathing  remed}-  for  a  minute.  When  I  stopped  he 
looked  up  and  said  "  Do  so  again,  Mother,  do,"  though 
he  could  not  speak  when  T  began.  You  may  be  assured 
I  did  so  again,  and  I  believe  it  saved  his  life. 

Home  Messengcj-. 

Some  afSrm  that  croup  may  be  cured  in  one  minute 
by  simply  using  floured  alum  and  sugar.  Take  one 
teaspoon  of  floured  alum  and  mix  well  with  two  tea- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar.  I  do  not  know  how  it  is 
administered,  but  I  should  carefully  place  a  little  each 
side  of  the  throat,  and  often,  but  I  think  I  should 
moisten  it  a  little,  for  fear  of  sucking  the  dry  powder 
into  the  windpipe.  After  using  hot  cloths,  bathe  the 
throat  with  equal  quantities  of  sweet  oil  and  turpen- 
tine.     Keep  the  feet  warm. 

Croup  of  Children. 

Many  a  lovely  child  is  destroyed  in  a  single  night  by 
this  alarming  disease.  Its  nature  is  described  in  the 
first  part.  It  is  a  disease  of  the  windpipe,  \\hich  is 
filled  or  lined  with  a  phlegm,  which  becomes  more 
and  more  tough,  almost  leathery,  thickens,  and  at 
length  closes  up  the  passage  to  the  lungs  and  the  child 
dies.  It  usually  comes  on  in  the  night.  The  destin- 
guishing  symptom  is  a  wheezing,  barking  cough.  A 
mother  who  has  ever  heard  it  once  needs  no  descrip- 
tion to  enable  her  to  recognize  it  again.  The  first 
born  are   the  most   likely  to  perish  with  it,  simply  be- 


262  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

cause  the  parent  has  no  experience  of  its  nature,  and 
hence  is  not  alarmed  in  time  or  kno^^■s  not  what  to  do 
while  the  physician  is  being  sent  for.  In  the  hope  of 
being  instrumental  in  saving  some  little  sufferer  whose 
life  is  inexpressibly  dear,  at  least  to  one  or  two,  I  will 
make  some  suggestions,  not  for  the  cure  of  the  patient, 
but  to  save  time.  The  instant  you  percei\e  the  child 
has  croup,  indicated  by  the  cough,  uneasy  breathing, 
restlessness,  send  for  a  physician,  and  as  instantly 
wrap  a  hot  flannel  around  each  foot  to  keep  it  warm; 
while  the  flannels  are  being  heated,  dip  another  flannel 
of  two  or  more  thicknesses  in  spirits  of  turpentine,  or 
spirits  of  hartshorn,  or  have  a  large  mustard  plaster 
applied,  one  that  will  reach  from  the  top  of  the  throat 
down  to  some  two  inches  below  the  collar  bones,  wide 
enough  at  the  top  to  reach  half  way  around  the  neck 
on  either  side,  and  nearly  across  the  whole  breast  at 
bottom.  But  it  will  take  time  to  send  for  a  ph}-sician, 
to  prepare  flannels,  and  to  make  the  plaster  or  to 
obtain  the  turpentined  flannel,  and  in  some  cases  fif- 
teen minutes  is  an  age — is  death,  if  lost;  therefore, 
while  these  things  are  preparing,  give  the  child  if  one 
year  old  or  over  (and  half  as  much  if  less),  about 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  hive  syrup,  and  double  the  dose 
every  fifteen  minutes  until  vomiting  is  produced;  and 
every  half  hour  after  vomiting  give  half  as  much  as 
caused  the  vomiting,  until  the  physician  comes,  or  the 
child  ceases  to  cough,  when  he  breathes  free  and  is 
safe.  If  you  have  no  hive  syrup,  give  a  teaspoonful 
or  half  teaspoon  of  syrup  of  ipecac  (accord- 
ing to  age),  and  double  the  dose  every  fifteen 
minutes  until  vomiting  is  produced.  If  you  have  been 
so  thoughtless  as  to  have  nothing  at  all,  boil  some 
water,  keep  it  boiling,  dip  a  woolen  flannel  of  several 
folds  into  it,  squeeze  it  out  moderately  with  your  hand, 


TIic  Queen  Cook  Book  263 

and  apph'  it  as  hot  as  the  child  can  possibly  bear  to 
the  throat,  and  in  from  one  to  three  minutes,  accord- 
ing^ to  the  violence  of  the  symptoms,  have  another  to 
put  on  the  instant  the  first  is  removed,  and  keep  this 
up  until  the  breathing  is  easy,  and  the  cough  is  loose 
and  the  phlegm  is  freely  discharged,  or  until  the 
arrival  of  the  physician. 

A  Small-pox  Remedy. 

Last  April  Dr.  James  Moore,  of  fronton,  Ohio,  pub- 
lished his  experience  with  lemons  as  a  remedy  for 
small-pox.      ft  is  as  follows: 

"  I  was  taken  sick  April  1 4th  with  what  I  supposed  was 
a  severe  cold,  having  had  my  hair  shingled  the  pre- 
vious Friday.  The  14th  I  was  quite  feverish,  with  a 
severe  pain  in  the  head  and  back.  Saturday,  i6th,  I 
Avas  no  better;  Sunday,  fever  somewhat  reduced,  I 
presume  by  the  aid  of  aconite,  which  had  been  ad- 
ministered to  me  by  Drs.  Morris  and  Dunn;  eruption 
very  indistinct  underneath  the  skin. 

"  Monda}' m.orning,  i8th,  eruption  unmistakably  that 
of  small-pox.  Tuesda}'  morning  eruption  very  abund- 
ant, crop  increasing  rapidly  in  size  and  number. 
Wednesday  morning  a  very  dense  crop  all  over  the 
face,  forehead,  scalp  of  head,  neck,  and  soles  of  feet. 
Upon  the  arms,  hands,  legs  and  body,  they  were 
pretty  evenly  distributed,  but  not  so  closeh'  packed 
as  upon  the  above  mentioned  parts.  By  evening  I 
was  suffering  intensely  from  those  on  the  scalp.  By 
10:30  o'clock  the  pain  was  almost  intolerable.  My 
nurse  had  retired  and  was  sound  asleep  in  bed.  My 
feet  were  so  tender  that  I  dare  not  let  them  touch  the 
foot-board  of  the  bed.  My  head  I  could  not  suffer  to 
lie  on  the  pillow.  I  lay,  raised  on  my  elbow,  my 
neck  resting  upon   my  hand.      I  had  by  this  time  be- 


264  The  Oiii'cn  Cook  Book 

come  so  nervous  I  dare  not  shut  my  eyes  from  fear  of 
seeing  unpleasant  visions.  Pulse  about  90.  I  had 
upon  the  table  at  the  bedside  a  pitcher  of  \\ater  and  a 
drinking  glass,  a  box  of  seidlitz  powders  and  an  ounce 
of  chlorate  of  potash  in  crystals.  I  had  also  at  my 
bedside  a  paper  of  lemons,  also  one  of  oranges. 
These  were  all  the  agents  within  my  reach. 

'•  I  recollected  that  lemon  juice  in  sufficient  quantity 
was  a  sedative,  and  would  lower  the  heart's  action, 
and  by  so  doing  might  relieve  me  of  those  unpleasant 
visions.  I  therefore  squeezed  all  the  juice  I  possibly 
could  out  of  one  of  the  lemons  into  the  glass,  to 
which  I  added  about  two  tablespoonsful  of  water  and 
drank  it.  I  then  opened  the  rind  and  sucked  the  bal- 
ance of  the  juice.  In  about  twenty  minutes  I  took 
another  lemon  and  used  it  in  the  same  manner.  In 
a  short  time  I  felt  ver}^  cold,  as  if  I  were  lying  in  close 
proximity  to  a  large  mass  of  snow  or  ice.  My  pulse 
had  dropped  to  60.  I  shut  my  e5'es  to  see  if  the  un- 
pleasant visions  were  gone.  I  not  only  found  that 
they  were  gone,  but  by  placing  my  hand  upon  m}' 
head  I  found  the  pox  had  gone  also.  I  laid  down  and 
slept  two  hours  comfortably.  I  awoke,  I  presumed, 
from  cold,  although  I  had  plenty  of  cover  over  me 
and  the  fire  was  still  burning  in  the  grate.  I  felt  so 
well  pleased  that  I  took  a  little  more  lemon  juice.  I 
kept  my  pulse  at  from  60  to  67  for  36  hours,  when  all 
eruption  and  elevations  had  disappeared  from  m}' 
skin.  I  then  bid  good-by  to  lemon  juice  and  small- 
pox. 

"  So  strongly  am  I  convinced  of  the  power  of  lemon 
juice  to  abort  any  and  every  case  of  small  pox,  if  ad- 
ministered as  I  administered  it  myself,  that  I  look 
upon  it  as  a  specific  of  as  much  certainty  and  power 
in  small-pox  as  quinine   is   in  intermittent   fever.      I 


The  Ouceii  Cook  Book  265 

therefore  publish  my  experiments,  hoping  every  phys- 
ician ha\ing  a  case  of  small-pox  will  give  it  a  fair 
trial  and  report  the  result  to  me." 

Measles  and  Scarlet  Fever. 

It  is  important  to  be  able  to  readily  distinguish  be- 
tween these  two  diseases,  which  are  in  some  respects 
similar.  Measles  presents  the  appearance  of  a  patchy 
redness  of  a  circular  form,  showing  white  between, 
with  small  pimples  that  feel  like  little  hard  points. 
The  mouth  and  throat  are  red  and  inflamed,  causing  a 
cough  and  other  symptoms  of  cold.  About  the  third 
day  the  eyes  become  inflamed  and  water}'.  In  spite 
of  all  remedies  the  symptoms  do  not  abate.  A  day  or 
two  later  the  eruption  appears  upon  the  neck  and 
head,  and  then  extends  over  the  rest  of  the  body.  At 
last  it  attacks  the  bowels,  causing  diarrhoea,  and  then 
the  other  symptoms  quickly  disappear.  The  essential 
point  in  the  treatment  is  to  avoid  taking  cold.  There 
are  few  diseases  that  so  readily  and  completely 
recover  with  perfect  nursing,  and  few  that  entail  such 
a  series  of  misfortunes  Vv'ithout  it.  Medicine  is  seldom 
necessary.  A  portion  of  the  body  at  a  time  may  be 
sponged  with  warm  water  and  then  carefully  wiped  dry 
before  extending  the  operation.  The  room  should  be 
well  aired,  but  .no  current  of  air  should  touch  the 
patient.  The  food  should  be  light  and  easy  of  diges- 
tion. 

Scarlet  fever  is  also  red,  but  it  has  a  smooth  feel  in 
the  skin,  and  the  redness  is  suffused  like  a  blush, 
which  deepens  till  it  is  very  red.  There  is  loss  of  ap- 
petite, pains  in  the  limbs  and  sore  throat;  this  is  the 
dangerous  part.  In  scarlet  fever  the  rash  comes  out 
the   second   day;   in  measles  the  fourth.      In  scarlet 


266  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

fever,  there  is  sore  throat;  none  in  measles.  In 
scarlet  fever  the  patient  seems  to  have  no  cold,  as  in 
measles.  But  little  treatment  is  needed  in  mild  cases. 
If  the  urine  is  not  free,  drink  flax-seed  tea  or 
lemonade.  Gargle  the  throat  with  red  pepper, 
vinegar  and  water,  or  a  solution  of  chlorate  of  potash. 
The  main  thing  is  to  bring  out  the  rash  and  keep  it 
out.  Nothing  can  compare  with  frequent  warm 
baths  for  this  purpose;  or,  if  there  is  much  debility, 
warm  sponge  baths.  Check  thirst  with  lemonade, 
buttermilk,  etc.  Keep  the  room  cool  and  well  ven- 
tilated. Meat  or  poultry  broth  and  soups  may  be 
given.  Scarlet  fever  is  also  a  disease  that  must  run 
its  course,  and  the  patient  is  to  be  protected  by  care- 
ful nursing  from  death,  or  some  of  the  unfortunate 
complications  that  so  frequently  follow  this  disease. 

HalVs  Journal  of  Health. 

Sulphur  for  Diphtheria. 

Dr.  Field,  of  Victoria,  used  powdered  sulphur  and  a 
quill.  He  put  one  teaspoon  of  flour  of  sulphur  into  a 
wine  glass  of  water  and  stirred  it  with  his  finger  in- 
stead of  a  spoon:  as  the  sulphur  does  not  readily  mix 
with  water.  When  the  sulphur  was  well  mixed  he 
gave  it  as  a  gargle.  Brimstone  kills  every  species  of 
fungus  in  man,  beast  and  plant  in  a  very  few  minutes. 
Instead  of  spitting  out  the  gargle,  he  recommended 
the  swallowing  of  it.  In  extreme  cases,  when  the 
fungus  was  too  nearly  closing  the  throat  to  allow  of 
the  gargle,  he  blew  the  sulphur  through  a  quill,  each 
side  of  the  throat,  and  after  the  fungus  had  shrunk  to 
allow  of  it,  then  the  gargling. 

If  the  patient  can  not  gargle,  take  a  pan  of  hot 
coals  and  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  of  sulphur  upon  them. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  267 

Let  the  sufferer  inhale  it  somewhat,  but  not  too 
strong.  The  patient  can  walk  about  the  room  inhal- 
ing the  fumes.  It  is  an  excellent  disinfectant  of  the 
room.  Home  l\Iessengei'. 

Salt  in  Diphtheria. 

In  a  paper  read  at  the  Medical  Society  of  Victoria, 
Australia,  Dr.  Day  stated  that,  "  having  for  many  years 
regarded  diphtheria,  in  its  early  stage,  as  a  purely 
local  affection,  characterized  by  a  marked  tendency  to 
take  on  putrafactive  decomposition,  he  has  trusted 
most  to  the  free  and  constant  application  of  antisep- 
tics, and  when  they  have  been  used  from  the  first,  and 
been,  combined  with  nourishing  food,  he  has  seldom 
seen  blood  poisoning  ensue.  The  frequent  use  of  a 
gargle,  made  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  in  a  glass  of  water, 
giving  children  who  can  not  gargle  one  or  two  tea- 
spoons full  to  drink  occasionall}'.  Adults  should  use  the 
gargle  as  a  preventi\e  four  times  a  day."  I  should  not 
cease  to  use  other  helps  and  send  for  a  physician  at 
once.  Do  not  forget  to  use  the  sulphur  smudge  as  a 
disinfectant. 

Diphtheria  and  Scarlet  Fever. 

The  following  extract  from  a  circular  issued  by  Dr. 
James  Crane  of  the  Brooklyn  Health  Department,  has 
important  suggestions  which  are  equally  applicable  to 
city  and  country,  wherever  these  diseases  exist: 

Diphtheria  and  scarlet  fever  are  highly  contagious 
diseases,  attacking  persons  of  all  ages.  The}' must  be 
contracted  from  persons  that  are  already  affected, 
from  the  clothes  they  have  worn  and  from  everything 
which  has  been  in  the  room  with  them.  Even  the 
walls  of  the  room  may  infect  persons  coming  into  it 


268  TJic  Que  en  Cook  Book 

after  the  patient  has  recovered,  unless  the  poison  is  de- 
stroyed. In  order  to  prevent  their  spread  in  a  family 
or  house  where  they  exist  and  to  promote  the  recovery 
of  the  persons  attacked,  the  following  simple  measures 
should  be  conscientiously  and  rigidly  carried  out, 
thereby  preventing  much  suffering  and  saving  human 
life:  An  upper,  sunny  room,  provided,  if  possible, 
with  an  open  fireplace,  and  with  no  other  children  on 
the  same  floor,  should  be  arranged  for  the  patient  by 
removing  everything  from  it  which  can  possibly  be 
spared,  such  as  books,  clothing  and  window  curtains, 
remembering  that  when  once  the  patient  has  entered 
the  room  nothing  can  with  safet}'  be  removed  until  dis- 
infected or  fumigated.  One  or  two  adults  should  take 
entire  charge  of  the  patient,  under  no  circumstances 
coming  in  contact  with  other  persons,  more  especiall}' 
children.  Open  windows  and  open  fireplaces,  with 
fire  in  them  day  and  night,  avoiding  draughts  and 
chilly  air,  protect  the  sick  and  those  who  nurse  them. 
Nothing  should  be  removed  from  the  room  when  the 
patient  has  once  entered  it  until  it  has  been  thoroughly 
disinfected  or  fumigated. 

Procure  from  a  drug  store  one  pound  of  sulphate  of 
zinc;  the  price  should  not  exceed  thirt}-  cents.  Put 
into  an  ordinary  water  pail  eight  tablespoonsful  of  sul- 
phate of  zinc  and  four  of  common  salt,  and  to  this  add 
one  gallon  of  boiling  water.  This  disinfecting  solution 
is  to  be  kept  in  the  room,  and  into  it  should  be  placed 
and  kept  for  one  hour  every  article  of  soiled  clothing, 
bedding,  handkerchiefs,  etc.  When  they  are  removed 
from  this  they  should  be  put  into  boiling  water  before 
being  washed.  The  dishes  and  spoons  used  by  the 
patient  should  be  put  into  boiling  water  before  they 
are  permitted  to  leave  the  room.  Remember  that 
every  article   which   is    in  the   room    can  conve}'  the 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  269 

disease   and  that  nothing  should  go  from  it  until  the 
poison  which  it  might  carry  is  destroyed. 

See  that  the  whole  house  from  cellar  to  attic  is 
clean.  Keep  the  cellar  dry,  well  ventilated  and  well 
whitewashed.  Never  allow,  even  for  a  day,  garbage  or 
other  filth  to  be  kept  in  it.  Open  the  windows  of 
sleeping  rooms  every  day  for  as  long  a  time  as  possi- 
ble, fresh  air  being  an  excellent  disinfectant. 

Sulphur  in  Scarlet  Fever. 
Thoroughly  annoint  the  patient  twice  daily  with  sul- 
phur ointment;  give  five  to  ten  grains  of  sulphur 
stirred  in  molasses  three  times  a  day.  Sufficient  sul- 
phur was  burned  twice  daily  on  hot  coals  to  fill  the 
room  with  the  fumes,  and  of  course  was  thoroughly 
inhaled  by  the  patient.  Under  this  mode  of  treatment 
each  case  improved  immediately,  and  none  were  over 
eight  days  in  making  a  complete  recovery,  and  I  firmly 
believe  in  each  it  was  prevented  from  spreading  b}' the 
treatment  adopted.  One  case  was  in  a  large  school. 
Having  had  a  large  experience  in  scarlet  fever  last 
year  and  this,  I  feel  some  confidence  in  my  own  judg- 
ment, and  am  of  the  opinion  that  the  mildest  cases  I 
ever  saw  do  not  do  half  so  w^ell  without  as  bad  cases 
do  with  the  sulphur  treatment;  and  as  far  as  I  can 
judge,  sulphur  is  as  near  a  specific  for  scarlet  fever  as 
possible. 

Dr.  Hairy  Pigeon,  in  London  Lancet. 

I  have  copied  these  remedies  or  helps  (from  good 
authority)  for  these  contagious  diseases,  not  to  take 
the  place  of  a  physician,  by  no  means,  but  only  as 
helps  when  a  physician  is  not  at  hand.  Always  send 
for  the  most  experienced  one,  immediately,  that  you 
may  know  just  what  the  disease  is  and  take  it  in 
time. 


270  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


Disinfectants. 

Dr.  Doremus,  of  New  York,  says  that  to  insure  the 
destruction  of  germs  of  contagious  diseases  that  chlo- 
ride of  zinc  is  the  most  efficient  agent,  and  must  be 
used  freely  and  constantly,  and  in  direct  contact  with 
the  water  and  air  which  are  connected  with  the  sewers 
either  through  closets,  sinks,  or  washstands.  Saucers 
of  wet  chloride  of  lime  should  be  placed  in  every  room, 
where  a  house  has  a  contagious  disease,  also  the  sul- 
phur smudge  as  recommended  above. 

Typhoid  Fever. 

Dr.  Guillasse,  of  the  French  navy,  reports  that  in 
the  early  stages  of  the  disease,  coffee  is  almost  a  spe- 
cific against  typhoid  fever.  He  gives  to  adults  two  or 
three  tablespoons  of  strong  coffee  every  two  hours, 
alternating  with  one  or  two  teaspoons  of  claret  or  Bur- 
gundy wine.  The  beneiicient  effect  is  immediate.  A 
little  lemonade  or  citrate  of  magnesia  should  be  given 
daily,  and  after  a  while  quinine. 

Sciatic  and  Neuralgic  Pains. 

Dr.  Ehrard,  of  Nimes,  states  "  that  he  has  for  many 
years  treated  all  his  cases  of  sciatic  and  neuralgic 
pains  wifh  a  sufficiently  hot  fiat-iron  to  vaporize  the 
strong  vinegar  that  a  woolen  cloth  has  been  wet  in, 
and  placed  over  the  hot  flat-iron,  applied  at  once  to 
the  painful  spot.  The  application  may  be  repeated 
two  or  three  times  a  day.  As  a  rule,  the  pain  disap- 
pears in  twenty-four  hours,  and  recovery  ensues  at 
once." 

A  friend  of  mine  found  relief  in  a  few  days  from 
sciatic  pains,  by  being  rubbed  freely  with  "  Radway's 


The  Oiiccii  Cook  Book  271 

Ready  Relief,"  and  then  with  "  Stafford's  Oiive  Tar," 
then  pin  tightly  a  large  bandage  of  double  ilannel  (pre- 
viously put  under  him),  around  the  hips.  Three  times 
daily. 

A  Simple  Remedy  for  Cholera. 

Dr.  Henry  B.  Cooper  prescribes  this  remedy  for 
cholera:  "  One  ounce  of  camphor  should  be  dissolved 
in  six  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine,  and  a  small  bottle 
should  be  given  to  any  intelligent  person  who  will  un- 
dertake to  administer  it  to  his  poor  neighbors,  when 
they  are  seized  with  cholera  or  any  of  its  symptoms. 
The  following  instructions  should  be  carried  out  at  the 
same  time  with  the  utmost  care  and  attention  to  de- 
tail. On  the  appearance  of  any  cholera  symptoms 
such  as  vomiting,  purging,  sudden  weakness,  coldness, 
cramps  or  spasms,  instead  of  administering  brandy, 
whisky  or  any  other  kind  of  medicine,  put  the  patient 
to  bed,  after  putting  feet  and  hands  in  hot  water, 
covering  him  warmly  with  blankets.  Administer  (for 
an  adult)  at  once,  two  drops  (not  more)  of  the  cam- 
phor mixture  on  a  little  powdered  sugar  in  a  teaspoon 
of  cold  or  iced  water.  Five  minutes  after  let  him  take 
a  second  dose  of  two  drops  in  the  same  way,  and  in 
five  minutes  more  a  third  dose.  He  can  then  wait 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  to  see  whether  or  not  there  is  a 
sense  of  returning  warmth,  with  any  signs  of  perspi- 
ration, and  manifest  decrease  of  sickness  to  the 
stomach,  cramps,  etc.  If  the  improvement  is  not 
satisfactory,  take  two  drops  more  as  before,  and  repeat 
every  five  minutes,  until  fourteen  drops  have  been 
taken.  In  administering  the  remedy  particular  cau- 
tion must  be  observed,  that  the  patient  be  not  allowed 
to  take  anything  of  any  sort  or  kind  while  the  medi- 


272  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

cine  is  operating,  or  its  effect  will  be  destroyed,  for 
the  least  foreign  medicine  neutralizes  the  camphor, 
which  is  given  to  check  vomiting  and  to  produce  a 
free,  warm  perspiration.  The  use  of  cold  iced  water 
is  advisedly  recommended,  as  it  promotes  free  per- 
spiration and  the  discharge  of  bile.  The  patient 
must  not  be  allowed  to  rise  and  become  exposed  to 
slightest  degree  of  cold,  and  should  not  be  tormented 
with  baths,  steamings,  or  rubbings  of  any  kind,  but 
be  permitted  to  lie  still,  as  he  will  fall  asleep  when 
perspiration  comes  on.  After  some  hours  he  will 
awake  well,  although  weak  and  languid  and  may  be 
a  little  feverish,  in  which  case  he  may  take  a  teaspoon 
of  rhubarb  syrup,  with  a  little  peppermint  sling. 
Above  all,  he  must  be  kept  perfectly  quiet,  taking 
mutton  broth  and  then  light  nourishing  food." 

Rev.  Arthur  T.  Pierson,  D.  D.,  after  visiting  Siam, 
says:  "  Dr.  Samuel  R.  House,  so  long  in  Siam, 
told  me  he  seldom  lost  a  case  of  cholera  when 
called  before  the  stage  of  collapse,  and  his  sole 
remedy  was  spirits  of  camphor."  As  the  main 
object  is  to  get  up  a  natural  action  in  the  system 
and  cause  the  nausea  to  cease,  it  looks  reasonable.  A 
mustard  plaster  on  the  stomach  and  bowels  is  an 
excellent  thing  to  settle  the  stomach.  It  is  recom- 
mended to  burn  a  sulphur  stick  on  a  pan  of  coals,  the 
size  of  a  hickory  nut  (break  it  fine),  three  or  four 
times  a  day,  with  open  windows  and  doors,  as  a  disin- 
fectant. This  is  good  also  for  tubercular  affections  of 
the  lungs,  for  man  and  beast.  Saucers  of  chloride  of 
lime  should  stand  in  the  room. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  273 


To  Extract  a  Piece  of  Needle  or  Glass  from 
THE  Foot  or  Hand. 

Bind  on  hand  as  soon  as  possible  a  slice  of  well 
salted  fat  pork  (fresh  piece)  every  night  and  morning, 
until  you  find  it  on  the  pork.  I  once  had  the  smallest 
point  of  a  needle  in  the  ball  of  my  foot.  It  was  twenty- 
four  hours  before  I  could  make  the  application  of  salt 
pork  wet  with  the  brine.  Just  twenty-four  hours  after 
the  first  application,  as  it  was  removed  for  the 
third  piece,  I  found  the  needle  point  on  the  pork. 
This  is  equally  affective  for  injury  by  a  nail  or  a  piece 
of  iron,  or  a  sprained  ankle  or  wrist.  Bathe  the  parts 
first  with  spirits  of  turpentine;  then  bind  it  on  tight. 
J^Iany  a  sore  and  wound  has  been  cured  by  bathing  in 
strong  green  tea  and  a  plaster  of  Dalley's  ointment. 
But  with  any  of  these  applications  you  must  keep  the 
foot  up  in  a  chair. 

A  Mustard  Plaster. 

Mix  a  paste  of  flour  and  warm  water  so  stiff  it  will 
not  run  off  of  cloth,  lay  the  cloth  on  a  plate,  spread 
the  paste  the  size  you  need,  sift  the  mustard  over  it 
very  sparingly.  Wet  a  double  piece  of  new  sheer  mus- 
lin and  lay  carefully  over  the  mustard.  Sprinkle  it 
very  wet  with  very  hot  water,  put  it  on  and  cover  with 
flannel.  Leave  it  on  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  as  they  can 
bear  it.      Be  careful  not  to  draw  a  blister. 

Mustard  Poultice. 

A  mustard  poultice  should  never  make  a  blister.  If 
a  blister  is  wanted  there  are  other  plasters  far  better 
than  mustard,  as  it  is  the  sorest  kind  of  blister.  Mix 
the  mustard  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  use  no  water  and 


2/4  The  On  ecu  Cook  Book 

the  result  will  be  a  plaster  that  will  "  draw  "  pirfectly, 
but  will  not  produce  a  blister,  even  upon  the  skin  of 
an  infant,  no  matter  how  long  it  is  allowed  to  remain. 

Home  Me  SSL  nger. 

To  Make  Lime  Water. 

Put  a  few  lumps  of  unslacked  lime  in  a  jar,  slowly 
slack  it  with  boiling  water,  stir  it  well.  Let  it  settle 
over  night,  when  clear  bottle.  Use  from  two  to  three 
tablespoons  to  a  goblet  of  milk. 

Chronic  Diarrhoea. 

A  teaspoon  of  wheat  flour  mixed  into  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk  with  a  little  nutmeg  grated  into  it.  Take  it  cold 
and  raw.  Pour  a  little  milk  on  the  flour  at  a  time, 
beat  it  well  so  that  it  foams.  To  be  taken  three  or 
four  times  a  day.  Home  Messenger. 

For  Neuralgia  and  Headache. 

I  ounce  alcohol  ]/%  ounce  laudanum 

y%  ounce  chloroform  ^  ounce  gum  camphor 

^  drachm  oil  of  cloves        i  drachm  oil  of  lavender 
^^  drachm  sulphuric  ether 
Rub  the   part   affected   and  inhale  the  liniment  a 
little.      It  is  also  good  for  sick  headache. 

Home  Messenger. 
I  have  known  of  persons  being  cured  of  neuralgia  by 
drinking  good  home-made  buttermilk. 

In  Case  of  Accident. 

A  good  memory  well  stored  with  self  possession  in 
emergencies,  enables  a  person  to  relieve  suffering  and 
often  to  save  life.       One  who  faints  at  the  appearance 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  275 

of  danger  or  becomes  excited  or  confused  is  well  nigh 
useless.  A  clear  brain  and  strong  will  can  do  much 
toward  overcoming  physical  weakness.  It  is  especially 
important  that  mothers  should  school  themselves  in 
self  control  and  learn  what  should  be  done  in  times  of 
sudden  sickness  or  accident,  which  occur  more  or  less 
in  every  home. 

For  dust  or  any  foreign  substance  in  the  eye  avoid 
rubbing;  lie  on  the  back  with  head  low,  drop  sweet 
milk  in  the  corner  of  the  eye  and  wink  it  in,  repeat  if 
necessary.  If  this  does  not  wash  it  out,  whether  cin- 
ders or  eyelashes,  take  a  handglass  to  the  light,  and 
lift  the  lid,  take  the  point  of  a  lead  pencil  with  a  thin, 
wet  cloth  over  it,  and  touch  it;  the  substance  will  cling 
to  it. 

Ear. 

Remove  hardened  w^ax  from  the  ear  with  warm 
water:      Use  a  syringe.      Use  no   hard   instrument. 

A  Cut. 

If  an  artery  is  cut,  compress  above  the  wound.  If 
a  vein  is  cut,  compress  below. 

If  choked,  get  down  upon  all  fours  and  cough. 

To   Smother   Fire. 

Smother  fire  with  any  woolen  goods,  salt,  shovels 
of  earth,  or  ashes.  Water  poured  on  burning  oil, 
will  only  spread  it  and  increase  the  danger.  Before 
passing  through  smoke  take  a  full  breath  and  then  stoop 
low;  but  if  carbonic  gas  is  suspected,  walk  erect. 

For  apoplexy,  raise  the  head  and  body;  for  fainting, 
lay  the  body  flat. 


2  7^  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

If  in  the  water,  float  on  the  back,  with  the  nose  and 
mouth  projcctinfi^.  Be  careful  not  to  swallow  the 
water. 

To  Guard  Against  Fire. 

-Every  person,  \\'ho  sleeps  above  the  hrst  floor, 
either  in  hotels,  boarding  houses,  or  at  home,  should 
be  provided  with  a  fire-escape  rope,  a  pair  of  thick  old 
gloves,  and  a  large  cotton  bag,  a  strong  cord  run  in  it 
to  tie  it  up,  into  which  on  a  moment's  notice,  you 
could  empty  drawers,  or  trunks,  or  the  most  valuable 
of  your  wardrobe,  or  tie  up  your  clothing  in  a  blanket 
or  sheet  to  throw  out  of  window.  Fasten  the  iron 
hook  around  lower  bed  post  or  some  heavy  article  of 
furniture,  and  drop  the  other  end  out  of  the  window, 
and  descend  with  gloves  on  or  it  will  tear  the  flesh  off 
of  the  hands.  If  there  are  two  or  three  persons,  the 
stronger  could  let  down  the  weaker,  and  then  descend 
himself. 

Corks. 

Corks  may  be  made  air  and  water  tight  by  keeping 
them  for  five  minutes  in  melted  parafine. 

Is  Alum  Poisonous. 

Alum  is  used  by  many  bakers  to  whiten  their  bread, 
enabling  them  to  use  an  inferior  flour.  It  is  more  ex- 
tensively employed  as  a  cheap  substitute  for  cream  of 
tartar  in  the  manufacture  of  baking-powders.  It  has 
not  been  considered  immediately  dangerous,  although 
if  continued  it  induces  dyspepsia  and  osbtinate  con- 
stipation. We  are  in  entire  sympathy  with  the  manu- 
facturers   of  the    Royal   Baking  Powder — who  com- 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  277 

menced  and  are  vigorously  conducting  the  war  against 
the  use  of  alum  in  baking-powders.  We  prefer  the 
Royal  Baking  Powder. 

Adulterations. 

We    can   not   be  too  strongly    warned    against  the 
adulterations  of  food. 


WHAT  PEOPLE  EAT. 

Boston,  Jan.  8. — Mr.  Geo.  T.  Angell  read  a  paper 
before  the  American  Social  Science  iVssociation  here 
to-day  on  "  Public  Health  Associations,"  in  which  he 
made  some  startling  assertions  about  the  adulteration 
of  food.      He  said: 

Cayenne  pepper  is  adulterated  with  red  lead;  mus- 
tard with  chromate  of  lead;  curry  powder  with  red 
lead,  vinegar  with  sulphuric  acid,  arsenic  and  corro- 
sive sublimate.  It  is  stated  that  probably  half  the 
vinegar  now  sold  in  our  cities  is  rank  poison.  One  of 
our  Boston  chemists  analyzed  1 2  packages  of  pickles 
put  up  by  12  different  wholesale  dealers,  and  found 
copper  in  10  of  them.  Many  of  our  flavoring  oils, 
syrups,  jellies  and  preserved  fruits  contain  poisons. 
The  adulterations  of  tea  are  too  numerous  to  men- 
tion. Coffee  is  not  only  adulterated,  but  a  patent  has 
been  taken  out  for  molding  chicory  into  the  form  of 
coffee  berries,  and  I  am  told  that  clay  is  nov/  molded, 
and  perhaps  flavored  with  an  essence  to  represent 
coffee.  Cocoa  and  chocolate  are  adulterated  with 
various  mineral  substances. 

Several  mills  in  New  England,  and  probably  many 
elsewhere,  are  now  engaged   in  grinding  white  stone 


278  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

into  a  fine  powder  for  purposes  of  adulteration.  At 
some  of  these  mills  they  grind  three  grades — soda 
grade,  sugar  grade,  and  flour  grade.  It  sells  for  about 
half  a  cent  a  pound.  Flour  has  been  adulterated  in 
England,  and  probably  here,  with  plaster  of  Paris, 
bone  dust,  sand,  clay,  chalk,  and  other  articles.  I  am 
told  that  large  quantities  of  damaged  and  unwhole- 
some grain  are  ground  in  with  flour,  particularly  with 
that  kind  called  graham  flour.  Certainly  hundreds, 
and  probably  thousands,  of  bushels  of  "  terra  alba,"  or 
white  earth,  are  sold  in  our  cities  every  year  to  be 
mixed  with  sugars  in  confectionery  and  other  white 
substances.  I  am  told  by  an  eminent  physician  that 
this  tends  to  produce  stone,  kidney  complaints,  and 
various  diseases  of  the  stomach.  A  Boston  chemist 
tells  me  that  he  has  found  75  per  cent,  of  "  terra 
alba  "  in  what  was  sold  as  cream  of  tartar  used  for 
cooking.  A  large  New  York  house  sells  three  grades 
of  cream  of  tartar.  A  Boston  chemist  recently  ana- 
lyzed a  sample  of  the  best  grade,  and  found  50  per 
cent,  of  "  terra  alba  "  in  that.  Much  of  our  confec- 
tionery contains  33  per  cent,  or  more  of  "  terra  alba." 
The  coloring  matter  of  confectionery  frequently  con- 
tains lead,  mercury,  arsenic  and  copper.  Baking- 
powders  are  widel}'  sold  which  contain  a  large  per- 
centage of  "  terra  alba  "  and  alum. 

It  is  not  water  alone  that  is  mixed  \\\\\\  milk. 
Thousands  of  gallons,  and  probabl}-  hundreds  of  thous- 
ands, are  sold  in  our  cities  which  have  passed  through 
large  tins,  or  vats,  in  which  it  has  been  mixed  with 
various  substances.  Receipts  for  the  mixture  can  be 
bought  by  new  milkmen  from  old,  on  payment  of  the 
required  sum.  I  am  assured,  on  what  I  believe  to  be 
reliable  authority,  that  thousands  of  gallons  of  so- 
called  milk  have  been,  and  probably  are,  sold  in  this 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  279 

city  which  do  not  contain  one  drop  of  the  genuine 
article.  Large  quantities  of  the  meats  of  animals 
more  or  less  diseased  are  sold  in  our  markets.  Cows 
in  the  neighborhood  of  our  large  cities  are  fed  upon 
material  which  produces  a  large  flow  of  unwholesome 
milk.  Poultry  are  fed  upon  material  which  produces 
unwholesome  eggs.  bleats  and  fish  are  made  un- 
wholesome, frequently  poisonous,  by  careless  and 
cruel  methods  of  killing.  A  California  chemist  recently 
analyzed  many  samples  of  whisky,  purchased  at  dif- 
ferent places  in  San  Francisco.  He  found  them  adul- 
terated with  creosote,  salts  of  copper,  alum  and  other 
injurious  substances.  He  states  it,  in  his  published 
report,  as  his  opinion  that  there  is  hardly  any  pure 
whisky  sold  in  that  city.  A  gentleman  recentl}^  pur- 
chased from  a  prominent  Boston  firm  a  cask  of  pure 
sherry  wine  for  his  sick  wife.  His  wife  grew  worse. 
He  had  the  wine  anal3''zed,  and  found  there  was  not  a 
drop  of  the  juice  of  the  grape  in  it.  An  eminent  med- 
ical gentleman  of  B9ston  said  to  me:  "  The  adulter- 
ations of  drugs  and  spices  in  this  country  are  perfectly 
abominable."  I  say  that  laws  should  be  enacted  and 
enforced  prohibiting  the  manufacture  and  sale  of  these 
poisonous  and  dangerous  articles,  under  severe  penal- 
ties, and  compelling  the  manufacturers  and  sellers  of 
adulterated  articles  to  tell  buyers  the  precise  character 
of  the  adulterations. 

Neither  can  too  much  be  said  against  the  candies 
known  as  "rock  and  rye."  Upon  being  analyzed 
two  pounds  of  the  candy  contained  enough  fusel  oil  for 
a  fatal  dose.  A  smaller  quantity  produces  dizziness, 
headache,  sense  of  falling  and  suffocation.  This 
should  be  explained  to  school  children  and  to  our  own. 
Will  not  some  honest  manufacturer  arise  and  expose 
the  secrets  of  a  business  that  is  doing  untold  mischief 
to  our  children  ? 


!8o  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 


HINTS    FOR   THE    HOUSEHOLD. 

To  purify  the  room  of  unpleasant  odors,  pour  vine- 
gar on  a  hot  brick  or  burn  sugar  or  coffee  on  coals. 

To  remove  a  tight  finger-ring  hold  hand  in  very  cold 
water  a  few  minutes  and  rub  on  soft  soap. 

When  a  coal  fire  gets  low  throw  on  some  salt.  It 
will  help  it  very  much. 

When  cooking  onions  set  a  tin-cup  of  vinegar  on 
the  stove  and  let  boil  and  no  disagreeable  odor  will  be 
in  the  room. 

Gold  jewelry  washed  in  ammonia  water  with  a 
brush  will  look  nearly  equal  to  new.  It  is  excellent  to 
take  grease  from  carpets  and  clothes. 

To  remove  stains  of  ink,  fruit,  wine,  mildew,  etc., 
one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  one  tablespoon  of  pure 
cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon  of  oxalic  acid,  half  a 
pint  of  rain  water.  Wipe  off  with  clear  water  any  ar- 
ticle that  can  not  be  washed,  after  using  the  mixture, 
or  it  will  eat  the  fabric. 

Borax  water  will  heal  all  chapping  of  hands  or  lips 
and  remove  all  stains  from  the  hands.  Dissolve  the 
borax  in  hot  water,  bottle,  keep  a  bowl  of  it  weakened 
on  the  washstand;  rinse  5'our  hands  in  it  after  washing. 

If  fr5'ing  fat  gets  too  hot,  drop  in  two  or  three  slices 
of  raw  potato  or  bread. 

Felon. 

Common  rock  salt  mixed  with  spirits  of  turpentine 
in  equal  parts  placed  on  a  cloth  and  applied  to  the  af- 
fected part,  removing  the  application  as  often  as  it 
dries,  for  twenty-four  hours,  it  is  said  will  effect  a  cure. 

The  quickest  way  to  relieve  burns  caused  by  fire  or 
steam  is  to  cover  the  surface  with  baking  soda  till  a 


Tlie  Queen  Cook  Book  281 

preparation  of  equal  parts  of  linseed  oil  and  lime 
water  can  be  applied  with  soft  cloths.  For  a  slight 
burn  brush  over  with  the  white  of  an  ^gg  and  cover 
with  a  cloth  spread  with  pure  lard.  To  a  burn  result- 
ing from  lime,  lye  or  any  alkali,  apply  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice.  Burn  from  an  acid,  oil  of  vitriol  or  aquafortis, 
apply  water  instantly  and  immediately  follow  with  ap- 
plications of  moist  earth. 

Bruises. 

All  bruises  should  be  immediately  bathed  with  very 
hot  water  to  prevent  swelling  and  lessen  discoloration. 

Convulsions. 

Convulsions  are  not  infrequent  with  young  children 
and  while  teething.  Take  off  the  child's  clothing 
and  immerse  it  to  the  neck  in  as  warm  water  as  it  can 
bear,  apply  cold  water  to  the  head  with  a  cloth,  very 
cold.  The  muscles  will  usually  relax  soon,  when  the 
child  should  be  wiped  dry  with  hot  towels,  wrapped 
warm  and  placed  in  bed.  If  produced  hy  undigested 
food  give  an  emetic,  if  by  constipation  give  a  clyster. 

Soft  Bed. 

Why  should  soft  beds  be  considered  unhealthy } 
Certainl}-  they  afford  more  comfort  than  hard  ones. 
Hard  beds  should  never  be  given  to  little  children, 
and  parents  v.-ho  suppose  that  such  beds  contribute  to 
health  by  hardening  and  developing  the  constitutions 
are  surely  in  error.  Eminent  physicians  both  here 
and  in  England  concur  in  this  opinion,  and  state  that 
hard  beds  have  often  proved  injurious  to  the  shape  of 
infants.     To  a  weary  one  there  is  nothing  restful  in  a 


282  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

hard  bed.  Birds  and  animals  cover  their  offspring 
with  the  softest  material  they  can  obtain,  and  also 
make  soft  beds  for  them.  Why  not  take  lessons  from 
them. 

Brick  Walks. 

If  you  have  brick  walks  becoming  grey  and  mossy, 
scrub  and  scrape  them  clean,  then  sprinkle  with  Ven- 
etian red  and  scour  it  in  with  a  broom. 

There  are  many  dangerous  household  liquids,  such 
as  benzine,  ether,  ammonia,  oxalic  acid  and  others, 
which  should  be  kept  under  lock  and  key.  These  are 
used  for  cleaning  various  articles. 

Antidote  for  Poison. 

A  poison  of  any  conceivable  description  and  degree 
of  potency  which  has  been  swallowed  by  accident  or 
not,  may  be  rendered  almost  instantaneously  harmless 
by  swallowing  two  gills  of  sweet  oil.  An  individual  with 
a  very  strong  constitution  should  take  twice  the  quan- 
tity. The  oil  will  neutralize  every  form  of  vegetable 
or  mineral  poison  with  which  physicians  are  acquainted. 
Follow  with  emetics  of  a  teaspoon  of  mustard  and  one 
of  salt;  repeat  if  necessary. 

Antidotes  for  Poison. 

If  any  poison  is  swallowed,  drink  immediately  a  half 
glass  of  tepid  water  with  a  heaping  teaspoon  each 
of  salt  and  ground  mustard.  This  vomits  as  soon  as 
it  reaches  the  stomach,  but  for  fear  that  some  of  the 
poison  may  still  remain,  swallow  the  white  of  one  or 
two  eggs,  or  drink  a  cup  of  strong  coffee — these  two 
being  antidotes  for  a  greater  number  of  poisons  than 
any  other  dozen  articles  known,  with  the  advantage  of 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  283 

their  alwa3'S  being  at  hand.  For  oil  of  vitriol  or  aqua- 
fortis, give  large  doses  of  magnesia  and  water.  For 
ammonia,  give  vinegar  freely  or  lemon  juice.  For 
oxalic  acid,  give  magnesia  or  soda,  dissolved  in  water, 
administered  in  large  and  frequently  repeated  doses, 
and  some  soothing  drink.  This  is  good  for  all  acids. 
Acids  cause  great  heat  and  sensation  of  burning  pain 
from  the  mouth  down  to  the  stomach.  For  poisons 
of  alkalies,  best  remedy  is  vinegar.  For  saltpeter  an 
emetic  of  salt  and  mustard,  one  teaspoon  of  each 
in  cup  of  tepid  water,  if  not  sufficient,  repeat;  after- 
ward, gum  arabic  solution  and  small  doses  of  lauda- 
num, according  to  age;  this  should  be  directed  by  the 
physician:  For  opium  or  laudanum,  give  the  mustard 
emetic  freely,  then  strong  coffee  and  acids,  dash  cold 
water  on  the  head.  Keep  them  in  constant  motion  by 
walking,  or  if  too  v^eak  to  walk,  keep  them  awake  by 
shaking  and  slapping.  They  must  not  be  allowed  to 
sleep  for  ten  or  twelve  hours;  give  strong  coffee.  For 
arsenic  the  mustard  emetic,  then  the  beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs,  lime  water,  or  magnesia;  but  the  freshly 
prepared  hydrated  oxide  of  iron  is  best,  as  soon  as  it 
can  be  procured,  with  directions.  For  corrosive  sub- 
limate, give  v^'hites  of  eggs  freely  mixed  with  water 
until  free  vomiting  takes  place,  or  give  wheat  flour  and 
water  freely.  Creosote,  mustard  emetic  and  white  of 
eggs.  Belladona  (night  henbane),  give  emetics  and 
then  plenty  of  water  and  vinegar  or  strong  lemonade. 
Mushrooms,  when  poisonous,  give  emetics  and  then 
plenty  of  vinegar  and  water,  with  doses  of  ether. 
Nitrate  of  silver  (lunar  caustic),  give  a  strong  solution 
of  common  salt  and  then  emetics.  Nux  vomica,  first 
emetics,  then  brandy.  Tartar  emetic,  give  large 
doses  of  tea  made  of  galls,  peruvian  bark  or  white 
oak  bark. 


284  The  One  en  Cook  Book 

Poison  Oak,  Ivy,  etc. 
Dilute  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  with  the  same  quantity 
of  water;  apply  with  a  cloth  every  ten  minutes  until 
cured.  When  applied  immediately  it  seldom  needs 
more  than  one  application.  Fine  table  salt  in  solu- 
tion is  an  excellent  remed3^  also  sweet  oil.  An  excel- 
lent antidote  is  to  take  a  handful  of  quick  lime,  dissolve 
in  water,  let  stand  for  an  hour,  then  paint  the 
poisoned  places  with  it.  Three  or  four  applications 
will  cure.  All  poisonous  stings  can  be  instantly 
arrested,  by  the  application  of  equal  parts  of  common 
salt  and  bicarbonate  of  soda,  well  rubbed  in  on  the 
places  bitten  or  stung. 

The  Only  Antidote  for  Whisky  and  Tobacco. 
Look  at  all  its  evils,  ask  God's  help;  make  a  firm 
resolution  to  use  it  no  more  and  keep  it. 

Whitev.'ash  That  Will  Not  Rub  Off. 

To  half  a  pail  of  lime  and  water,  take  half  a  pint 
of  tlour,  make  a  starch  of  it  and  stir  it  in  well. 

To  Mend  China. 
Take  liquid  glue  and  stir  into  it  plaster  of  paris  un- 
til  the    mixture   is  of    proper  consistenc)'.      Rub  the 
edges  well,    tie   it  tightly   for  three  days,    or  hold  it, 
pressing  firml}-  till  dry. 

The  Best  Washing  Fluid 
2^  pounds  sal  soda  ^  pound  borax 

54^  pound  lime  unslacked     2  ounces  salts  of  tartar 
i^  ounces  liquid  ammonia  4  gallons  cold  water 

Dissolve  the  soda  and  borax  in  two  quarts  of  hot 
water.  Settle  and  when  clear  pour  it  01^  carefully. 
Pour    the    solution    together    and     the     cold    water. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  285 

Keep  it  in  keg.  Tlie  night  before  washing,  take  six 
tablespoons  to  four  pails  warm  water;  put  in  clothes, 
soak  over  night;  next  morning  add  hot  water  enough 
to  wash  the  clothes  with  good  soap  suds.  Boil  the 
clothes  ten  minutes,  and  wash  as  usual.  One  trial  of 
this  fluid  will  show  its  good  effects. 

To  Clean  Black  Kid  Gloves. 

Put  a  few  drops  of  black  ink  to  a  teaspoon  of  sweet 
oil,  rub  in  with  small  cloth  and  dry  in  the  sun. 

To  Clean  Gloves. 

Gloves  slightly  soiled  can  be  cleaned  by  placing 
glove  on  hand,  wet  a  piece  clean  flannel  with  benzine, 
and  wipe  the  stained  part  very  lightly  and  carefully. 
Do  not  rub  but  wipe  it  gently  from  the  tips  of  the 
fingers  toward  the  wrist. 

A  ripe  tomato  will  remove  ink  stains  from  the  hands 
or  from  paper  or  linen. 

Grass  Stains  on  White  Goods. 

Wet  the  fabric  in  suds  and  some  soda  in  it,  let 
stand  half  an  hour,  and  wash. 

To  Wash  Lawn,  Muslin  or  any  Color  that  Fades. 

Bring  to  a  boil  four  quarts  of  bran-middlings,  in  two 
pails  of  water,  strain  and  mix  in  water,  wash,  using  no 
soap,  put  a  little  of  the  bran  water  in  rinsing  water, 
you  need  no  starch.  Rip  skirt  from  waist  and  all 
gathers. 


286  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 


To  Renew  Wrinkled  Crape. 

Cover  a  board  about  twelve  inches  wide  with  cloth, 
stretch  the  crape  on  it  round  and  round  perfectly 
smooth  and  tight.  Hold  it  over  boiling  water,  shift- 
ing as  the  steam  penetrates  it.  Lay  a  heavy  weight 
on  it  to  dry.  If  a  good  quality  of  crape,  it  will  look 
as  good  as  new. 

To  Starch  Black  Dresses. 
Add  a  cup  of  strong  coffee  to  very  weak  starch. 

To  Clean  Black  Cashmere  Goods. 

Let  soak  over  night  in  hike  warm  strong  borax 
water.  Squeeze  it  through  the  hands  as  you  would 
yarn;  then  take  out  and  hang  on  line  to  drip,  when 
nearly  dry,  press  on  wrong  side.  Do  not  rinse  or 
wring. 

Ammonia  water  is  good  to  renovate  a  black  chip 
hat.      One  teaspoon,  to  one  pint  cold  water. 

To  Clean  Chamois  Skins. 

Put  to  soak  for  two  hours  in  warm  water,  with  a  lit- 
tle soda  and  soft  soap  suds.  Then  wash,  and  rinse  it 
well  in  a  weak  solution  of  soda  and  hard  soap  in  warm 
water.  It  must  not  be  put  in  clear  water  as  it  makes 
it  hard. 

Striped  or  Colored  Table  Linen. 

Wash  in  borax  water,  put  two  tablespoons  of  salt 
in  rinsing  water. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  2 87 


Lace  Curtains. 
Soak  over  night  in  warm  soap  suds,  squeeze  through 
two  waters;  boil  in  weak  borax  water,  suds  and  rinse, 
handle  very  carefully,  do  not  wring  but  only  squeeze. 
Starch,  pin  sheets  on  carpet  and  pin  the  curtains 
down  or  dry  them  on  curtain  frames.  Wring  out  of 
starch  with  clothes-wringer. 

To  Wash  W^hite  Flannels. 
A  good  laundress  will  wash  flannels  with  warm  water 
and  hard  soap  without  shrinking.  Use  one-fourth  of 
a  cake  of  hard  soap  (shave  it  up  and  dissolve  in  hot 
water  the  night  previous)  to  three  pails  of  hot  water. 
Put  some  of  this  suds  in  rinsing  water  after  dissolving 
two  tablespoons  of  powdered  borax  in  both  waters. 
Clear  water  leaves  the  flannels  hard.  Wring  very 
dry;  shake,  pull  and  stretch  well.  Press  them  when 
dry. 

How  TO  Relieve  Rheumatism. 
Put  away  sheets  and  counterpane  and  sleep  in 
blankets,  under  and  over.  The  sheets  and  cotton 
spread  do  a  great  deal  of  mischief.  The  cotton  keeps 
the  sour  heat  and  perspiration  from  the  body  in  the 
bed,  and  so  you  breathe  poisoned  air  all  night,  sum- 
mer and  wmter,  which  makes  the  rheumatism  worse. 
Blankets  do  not  absorb  the  perspiration.       Selected. 

Relief  for  Burning  Feet. 

First  discard  tight  boots;  then  take  one  pint  of  bran 

and  one  ounce  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda  and  put  it  in  the 

foot-bath  with  one  gallon  of  hot  water.     When  cool 

enough,  soak  your  feet  in  this  mixture  for  fifteen  min- 


288  The  (Jitcai  Cook  Book 

utes;  then  rub  off  well  all  the  dead  skin.  Repeat  this, 
until  cured,  every  other  night  for  eight  or  ten  times. 
After  the  first  bath  the  same  water  will  do  for  three 
times.  The  burning  sensation  is  produced  by  the 
pores  of  the  skin  being  closed  so  that  the  feet  do  not 
perspire. 

Asthma. 

Take  one-half  ounce  of  hydrate  potassa,  put  it  into 
a  pint  of  water,  and  take  a  teaspoon  two  or  three  times 
a  day.  Viola. 

Piles.     $  1,000  Reward 

For  any  case  of  blind,  bleeding  or  itching  piles  that 
DeBing's  pile  remedy  fails  to  cure.  It  has  cured  cases 
of  twenty  years  standing.  Try  it,  and  get  rid  of  the 
most  troublesome  disease  flesh  is  heir  to.  Laboratory 
142  Franklin  street,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Malady  of  the  Stomach. 

The  wife  of  Pere  Hyacinthe,  in  her  counsel  and 
encouragement  to  the  women  workers  in  the  temper- 
ance work  says,  "  The  great  American  malady  is 
the  malady  of  the  stomach.  Bear  in  mind  this  fact, 
that  the  appetite  for  drink  is  not  necessarily  made  by 
drinking,  but  in  nine  cases  out  of  ten  it  is  created  and 
cultivated  at  your  tables — in  the  children  by  the  use  of 
strong  tea  and  coffee,  or  pepper,  pickles,  mustard, 
spices,  too  much  salt  pork,  hot  bread  and  pastry,  raw 
meat  and  grease,  and  above  all  by  the  use  of  tobacco. 
The  cry  of  a  depraved  appetite,  an  inflamed  stomach, 
is  always  for  something  stronger.  In  short  reform 
your  tables  if  you  would  reform  your  drunkards  and 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  289 

save  your  sons."  When  people  feel  the  need  of 
an  acid,  if  they  would  let  vinegar  alone  and  use 
lemonade  or  apples  they  would  feel  as  well  satisfied 
and  receive  no  injury. 

Earache. 

Children  frequently  suffer  greatly  with  earache.  I 
would  not  advise  dropping  anything  into  the  car,  as  I 
have  known  of  one  person  who  lost  entirely  the  hear- 
ing of  that  ear  for  life.  Tobacco  smoke  will  often 
afford  great  relief.  Fill  the  bowl  of  a  pipe  half  full  of 
fine  tobacco,  place  a  piece  of  thin  muslin  over  the 
bowl,  insert  the  stem  or  hold  it  to  the  ear  and  blow  in 
the  smoke,  or  if  you  are  where  you  can  obtain  it, 
place  a  piece  of  cotton  wool  saturated  with  chloroform 
in  the  bowl  of  a  pipe  and  blow  gently,  holding  the 
stem  in  the  ear;  the  evaporating  chloroform  will  relieve 
the  pain  immediately.  Then  apply  at  once  a  bag  of 
hops  wet  or  moistened  with  very  hot  water  to  the  ear; 
bind  it  on  and  cover  them  warm  in  bed.  Put  the 
hops  in  sheer  muslin,  and  you  will  sleep  all  night. 
If  there  are  no  hops,  roast  onions,  put  in  thin  bag  and 
bind  on  hot. 

How  TO  Take  out  a  Cancer. 

A  Milwaukee  paper  states  that  some  eight  years  ago 
Mr.  T.  B.  Mason,  of  that  city,  ascertained  that  he  had 
a  cancer  on  his  face  the  size  of  a  pin.  It  was  cut  out 
by  Dr.  Wolcott,  and  the  wound  partially  healed. 
Subsequently  it  grew  again,  and  while  he  was  in  Cin- 
cinnati on  business,  it  attained  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut.  He  remained  there  under  treatment  and  is  now 
perfectly  cured.  The  process  is  this:  A  piece  of 
sticking  plaster  was  put  over  the  cancer,  with  a  cir- 


290  TIic  Queen  Cook  Book 

cular  piece  cut  out  of  the  center  a  little  larger  than  the 
cancer,  so  that  the  cancer  and  a  small  circular  rim  of 
the  healthy  skin  next  to  it  were  exposed.  Then  a 
plaster  made  of  chloride  of  zinc,  bloodroot,  and  wheat 
liour  was  spread  on  a  piece  of  muslin,  the  size  of  this 
circular  opening,  and  applied  to  the  cancer  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  On  removing  it,  the  cancer  will  be  found 
burst  into  and  appear  of  the  color  and  hardness  of  an 
old  shoe  sole,  and  the  circular  rim  outside  of  it  will 
appear  white  and  parboiled,  as  if  scalded  by  hot 
steam.  The  wound  is  now  dressed,  and  the  outside 
rim  soon  separates,  and  the  cancer  comes  out  in  a 
hard  lump,  and  the  place  heals  up.  The  plaster  kills 
the  cancer,  so  that  it  sloughs  out  like  dead  flesh,  and 
never  grows  again.  This  remedy  was  discovered  by 
Dr.  Fell,  of  London,  and  has  been  used  by  him  many 
years  with  unfailing  success,  and  not  a  case  has  been 
known  of  the  reappearance  of  the  cancer  when  this 
remedy  has  been  applied.  Note: — As  the  quantities 
are  not  given  it  would  be  best  to  consult  a  good 
physician  and  he  give  you  the  proportions,  and  care 
for  it  till  it  is  healed.  Keep  still  till  healed.  See  cure 
for  wounds.  Perhaps  this  is  painful.  Let  the  doctor 
take  charge. 

For  Tape  Worm. 

First  be  sure  you  have  one,  as  pieces  will  pass  from 
you,  which  is  the  surest  evidence.  Fast,  and  eat 
nothing  for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  take  a  phit  of 
shelled  pumpkin  seeds,  chop  fine,  and  mix  in  common 
molasses  enough  to  make  it  eatable,  eat  it  all  at  once. 
Twelve  hours  after,  take  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
of  castor  oil.  Eat  nothing  till  the  oil  operates,  ex- 
cept a  little  coffee  once  or  twice  with  two  mouthfuls 


Tlic  Queen  Cook  Book  291 

of  bread.  This  will  cost  a  struggle  of  two  days;  eat 
lightly  after  it,  at  first.  Two  cases  are  positively 
known  to  have  been  cured  by  this  process. 

Frozen  Hands  or  Feet. 

Put  them  in  very  cold  water  or  rub  them  with  snow. 
Frozen  ears  also. 

Tar  Cordial. 
Is  excellent  for  a  cough. 

W.\TER  Bugs  and  Roaches. 

Powdered  borax  sprinkled  on  the  floor  or  in  the 
chinks  which  they  frequent,  is  said  to  clear  them  out. 
If  it  does  not,  hellebore  will;  mix  it  with  double  the 
quantity  of  oat  meal,  adding  a  little  sugar,  strew  it 
where  they  run,  but  take  it  up  in  the  morning,  if  chil- 
dren or  servants  are  around,  and  put  it  down  at  night 
again,  as  it  is  a  deadly  poison. 

To  Rid  a  House  of  Punkies. 

If  two  or  three  little  dishes  of  household  ammonia 
are  set  in  their  places  of  resort,  they  will,  soon  leave. 

Flies. 

The  only  way  to  keep  out  liies,  is  to  have  whidow 
and  door  screens,  darken  the  room  from  nine  a.  m. 
to  five  p.  M.  and  have  no  eatables  or  smells  around. 

Moths. 

I  have  for  many  years  used  camphor  gum  as  a  pre- 
ventive against  moths,  and  it  has  never  failed,  either 


292  TJic  Oil  ecu  Cook  Book 

ill  furs,  woolens  or  feathers.  All  ^^oods  must  be  shook 
and  brushed  clean  from  all  dust,  all  spots  cleaned. 
Cover  all  goods  with  newspapers,  putting  in  each 
package  a  piece  of  camphor  (cutting  it  in  squares)  as 
large  as  a  large  hickory  nut  in  each  package  and  one 
in  each  end  of  trunk  or  box,  doing  it  up  tightly  in 
paper.  This  will  last  all  summer.  Everything  else 
has  failed. 

Buffalo  Moths. 

The  state  entomologist  recommends  benzine  for 
the  extirpation  of  the  grub,  which  usually  begins  its 
ravages  in  the  middle  of  April.  It  is  a  hairy  worm- 
like larvae  scarcely  half  an  inch  long,  which  easily 
hides  in  the  fuzz  of  the  carpet,  or  in  any  woolen 
article,  or  even  in  trunks.  The  beetle  is  never  found 
about  the  house  except  during  the  short  period  when 
it  is  laying  its  eggs  in  summer.  It  feeds  on  the  pollen 
of  the  spirea  and  other  plants  and  never  touches  car- 
pets. The  grub  alone  feeds  on  carpets,  woolens, 
furs,  etc. 

Black  Ants. 

Crush  them  as  fast  as  you  can  just  as  you  find  them 
and  let  them  lie  just  where  you  killed  them,  the  next 
morning  you  will  look  in  vain  for  their  carcasses,  as 
during  the  night  their  brethren  have  carried  them 
off.  They  will  not  return  to  that  city  of  destruction 
again  for  the  summer,  perhaps  never. 

Creeping  Charlie. 

To  arrange  "  creeping  Charlie  "  to  grow  luxuriantly 
in  a  vase,  place  some  broken  pieces  of  charcoal  in  the 
bottom  of  vase,  with  some  beach  sand  on  it   to  the 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  293 

depth  of  two  inches;  place  the  stems  of  the  plant  in 
this  sand  and  fill  the  vase  with  water.  Set  it  in  the 
coolest  corner  of  the  room. 

Pressing  Leaves  and  Flowers. 

Always  press  flowers  between  soft  papers  such  as 
newspapers,  as  soon  as  possible  after  picking.  Stiff 
paper  will  not  absorb  the  dampness;  open  them  every 
day  to  dry  and  see  that  they  are  not  shoved  an}'. 


PLANTS. 


Plants  that  you  desire  for  the  house  for  the  winter, 
should  be  slipped  in  the  summer  for  potting  in  the 
middle  of  Septen.ber.  Small  pots  are  best  for  bloom- 
ing. Put  in  rich  soil,  with  powdered  charcoal  mixed 
in  the  soil  will  give  rich  dark  green  leaves  and  brilliant 
coloring  to  the  flowers.  Pot  the  plants  in  September 
and  bring  them  in  about  two  weeks  before  requiring 
fires.  Use  liquid  manure,  very  weak,  once  a  week. 
Stirring  the  top  soil  once  a  week  is  very  good  especi- 
ally for  roses.  Plants  are  very  much  like  children, 
will  thrive  and  reward  us  according  to  the  loving  ten- 
der care  thc\'  receiA'e,  or  the  abuse  and  neglect. 
Plants  packed  away  in  cellars  that  are  quite  dark  will 
require  very  little  water  once  a  week,  according  to 
dryness  of  cellar.  Do  not  allow  gas  to  escape  in  the 
cellar,  as  it  is  dangerous  both  to  plants  and  people. 

Wall  Roses. 

Make  a  two  feet  deep  border  of  strong  loam,  four  or 
five  feet  wide,  to  be  as  rich  as  rotten  manure  can 
make  it ;  the  border  to  be  thoroughly  soaked  with  soft 


294  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

water  twice  a  week  in  dry  weather,  and  when  the 
roses  are  in  bloom,  to  keep  them  thin  in  the  branches 
as  if  they  were  peach  trees  and  to  play  the  water 
engine  against  them  as  for  a  house  on  fire,  from  the 
first  appearance  of  insects  till  no  more  come.  There 
is  a  reason  for  ever3thing  under  the  sun,  and  the 
reason  for  insects  attacking  roses  in  general  and  those 
on  walls  more  particularly,  is  from  too  much  dryness 
at  the  roots  causing  the  juices  to  be  more  palatable 
through  the  action  of  the  leaves. 

Worms  at  the  Roots  of  Plants. 

Sprinkle  soot  over  the  top  of  the  ground  around 
them.  For  angle  worms  in  house  plants  insert  in  the 
mold  a  long  sharp  hair  pin  or  wire,  and  then  pour 
lime  water  upon  the  soil,  it  will  cause  the  worms  to 
come  to  the  top  and  crawl  off. 

For  Insects  on  Rose  Bushes  and  Small  Fruits. 

To  destroy  the  insects  strew  the  ground  around 
them  with  air  slacked  lime  under  the  bushes  in  early 
spring. 

Currant  Worms. 

Take  one  large  teacup  of  powdered  white  hellebore, 
at  the  first  appearance  of  the  worms,  to  a  pail  of 
warm  water  and  syringe  with  it.  This  will  kill  the 
worms  all  off,  but  in  ten  da)'S  another  lot  will  be 
hatched  out,  which  should  be  dealt  with  as  before.  I 
have  used  this  ever  since  the  worm  appeared  and  it 
has  never  failed. 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book  295 


Carbolic  Acid  for  Insects. 

Obtain  crude  carbolic  acid,  use  it  in  this  form  be- 
cause it  is  stronger  and  better  for  the  purpose  and 
costs,  but  very  httle.  Two  or  three  tablespoons  of 
acid  to  a  quart  of  domestic  soft  soap  may  first  be 
tried.  Stir  well  together,  and  let  stand  for  a  few 
hours.  Then  test  the  compound  by  mixing  a  little  of 
it  with  soft  water.  If  too  much  acid,  oily  particles  of 
carbolic  acid  will  be  floating  on  the  surface.  More 
soap  should  be  added  to  balance  the  excess  of  acid. 
Some  soaps  are  stronger  than  others,  so  no  definite 
rule  can  be  given.  Make  as  strong  with  acid  as  the 
soap  will  perfectly  cut.  The  refined  acid  may  be  used 
when  the  crude  is  not  at  hand.  When  prepared  as 
above,  make  a  moderately  strong  suds  and  apply  with 
syringe,  or  turn  up  the  bush  and  sprinkle  with  a 
broom.  In  using  on  delicate  plants,  make  it  weaker 
and  rinse  off  after  a  few  minutes. 

Grape  Mildew  and  Curculio. 

To  one  part  sulphur  add  two  parts  lime  unslacked 
with  about  two  thousand  times  their  bulk  of  boiling 
water.  Let  it  stand  forty-eight  hours,  draw  off  the 
clear  liquor  and  apply  with  a  common  garden  pump. 

The  Apple  Worm. 

After  the  worm  has  entered  the  fruit  and  accom- 
plished its  damage,  the  time  arrives  when  it  has  to 
leave  the  fruit  and  hide  itself  in  a  quiet  secure  position 
to  undergo  the  transition  from  the  larva  to  the  pupa 
state,  which  requires,  in  the  early  part  of  the  season, 
eight  or  ten  days;  after  this  time  the  miller  is  hatched 
and  is  again  ready  to  besiege  the  fruit  with  its  sting. 


2g6  'J lie  Queen  Cook  Book 

The  insect  being  two-brooded  at  least,  if  not  disturbed, 
has  an  increased  force  to  do  mischief  the  second  time." 
The  progeny  for  the  succeeding  year  have  alone  to 
depend  on  the  security  of  tliis  second  generation  of 
larvae.  They  may  often  be  found  under  the  outside 
bark  of  apple  trees  during  winter.  This  bark  should 
be  thoroughly  scraped  off  and  washed  in  strong  soft- 
soap  suds.  Sprinkle  the  ground  under  the  tree  with 
wood-ashes  and  then  sprinkle  this  with  water  enough 
to  wet  the  ashes.  Last  of  June,  wrap  around  the 
trees  woolen  rags  about  four  inches  wide,  dip  in 
either  of  the  above  preparations,  or  wet  with  helle- 
bore fluid,  as  directed,  for  currant  worms.  Every  few 
days  examine  the  trees,  and  destroy  the  worms  secreted 
under  the  woolen  cloth  and  carefully  picking  up  and 
destroying  all  dropped  apples,  for  the  rest  of  the  sum- 
mer. This  is-  an  effective  remedy,  but  it  will  require 
your  utmost  diligence. 

Red  Ants. 

Have  plenty  of  swing  shelves  in  pantry  and  cellar. 
Place  sugar  boxes,  cereals  and  every  thing  eatable  or 
sweet  upon  them.  Wash  off  the  shelves  where  you 
find  them  with  strong  spirits  of  camphor.  Place 
lumps  of  camphor  in  corners  and  occasionally  on 
shelf.  But  to  keep  them  from  the  floor,  put  coarse 
salt  two  inches  deep  and  three  inches  wide  next  to  the 
mop-board.  This  I  have  found  ver}' effectual.  I  have 
found  little  dishes  of  chloride  of  lime  set  around  in  ad- 
dition, good,  for  sometimes  they  seem  desperate  and 
then  we  have  to  be  very  thorough  too.  Everything 
must    be  very  clean;   not  a  crumb  dropped  around. 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book  297 


AxTs  Black  and  Red. 

"  Having  had  years  of  trial  with  ants,  both  black 
and  red,  we  lighted  upon  the  following  remedy,  which 
with  us  has  worked  like  magic.  One  tablespoon  of 
tartar  emetic,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  mixed  into  a  thin 
syrup  with  water  as  it  evaporates  or  is  carried  off, 
add  ingredients  as  needed.  When  the  water  dries  up, 
fill  up  again;  the  emetic  will  last  a  long  time.  A 
sicker  lot  of  pests  it  would  be  hard  to  find.  Whether 
they  impart  the  results  to  the  home  firm,  or  whether 
all  are  killed,  I  trow  not;  certain  it  is  they  do  not  pay 
us  a  second  visit." 

Another  to  drive  away  red  ants: — One  pint  of  tar  in 
two  quarts  of  hot  water,  put  in  earthen  dishes  or  tin 
covers  and  set  where  their  haunts  are.  Some  say 
powdered  borax  sprinkled  around  will  drive  away  all 
kinds  of  insects.  I  find  dry  sulphur  the  best.  Spread 
it  on  shelf. 

To  Drive  off  Rats  and  Mice. 

Rats  will  leave  the  premises  if  wet  chloride  of  lime  is 
spread  where  they  run,  and  around  and  in  their  holes. 
Tar  is  good. 

Another  for  rats  and  mice: — Two  parts  well  bruised 
squills,  three  parts  of  finely  chopped  bacon,  corn 
meal  to  thicken.  Roll  thin  and  bake  in  small  cakes. 
Place  where  they  run.      Sure  thing. 

Bed  Bugs. 

The  only  certain  cure  for  bedbugs  is  a  solution  of 
corrosive  sublimate,  put  into  the  cracks  and  crevices, 
after  the  bedstead  is  thoroughly  washed  and  scalded, 
where  you  can.      If  thoy  are  in  the  walls,  smoke  with 


298  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

brimstone.  Examine  often  and  repeat  the  process 
every  week  if  necessary.  This  is  a  deadly  poison, 
therefore  keep  it  locked  up,  away  from  servants  and 
children. 

A  Useful  Cement. 

A  good  cement  for  mending  almost  anything,  made 
by  mixing  together  litharge  and  glycerine  to  the  con- 
sistency of  fresh  putty.  This  cement  is  useful  for 
mending  stone  jars,  or  any  coarse  earthenware,  stop- 
ping leaks  in  seams  of  tin  pans,  washboilers,  cracks 
or  holes  in  iron  kettles,  to  tighten  loose  boxes  in 
wagon  hubs,  etc.  The  article  mended  should  stand  a 
few  days  to  harden. 

Suggestions    about   House   Plants   and  Insects. 

The  calla  lily  blooms  at  three  years,  in  the  early 
spring.  Take  an  ordinary  earthen  one-gallon,  or 
more,  jar,  without  a  hole  in  the  bottom,  fill  the  jar 
within  one  inch  from  top  with  rich  earth,  in  the  fall, 
taking  off  all  extra  bulbs  and  rootlets,  press  the  soil 
firmly  around.  The  first  of  January  bring  them  out 
of  cellar  and  fill  full  every  other  day  with  quite  warm 
water.  A  few  drops  of  ammonia  in  the  water  will 
hasten  their  blooming.  Give  plenty  of  water,  and  as 
much  light  and  sun  as  possible.  In  California  they 
only  bloom  during  the  winter  months;  always  out- 
doors in  the  coldest  rains.  The  pots  should  be  set  in 
a  shady  corner  during  the  months  of  June  and  July 
and  be  given  no  water  except  that  which  falls  from 
the  clouds.  The  English  or  German  ivy  will  grow 
nicely  if  put  in  a  bottle  of  water. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  299 


Bulbs. 

Hyacinth  bulbs  can  be  planted  the  last  of  August, 
or  tulips,  after  having  been  up  out  of  ground  in  a  dry 
place  for  two  months.  For  house  bloom  plant  in 
pots,  or  place  in  water  in  h3^acinth  glasses.  Set  in 
dark,  dry  place  for  two  or  three  Aveeks,  then  give  them 
plenty  of  light  and  warm  water,  and  they  will  soon 
bloom.  Tulips,  narcissus,  crocus,  can  be  treated  in 
the  same  way. 

Scarlet   Amaryllis. 

These  should  be  potted  the  first  of  March,  in  quite 
a  small  pot;  break  off  about  half  the  rootlets,  and  all 
the  new  bulbs.  After  flowering  the  bulb  may  remain 
in  pot  until  the  following  spring,  and  should  be  kept 
pretty  cool  and  not  very  moist. 

Lady  Slippers. 

Collect  seeds  from  center  stalks  only  of  double  lady- 
slippers  to  make  them  double  next  year. 

Training  of  Grape  Vine. 

As  the  method  or  plan  of  training  the  \ine  has 
much  to  do  with  the  way  it  is  pruned  or  trimmed  I 
will  say  that  our  style  is  a  modified  Fuller  process. 
We,  the  first  year,  run  up  one  cane,  the  second  year 
we  run  up  two,  which  in  the  fall  we  cut  back  to  two 
or  three  eyes,  each  above  the  surface  of  the  soil. 
The  following  season  we  let  only  two  canes  grow, 
fruiting  them  this  year.  We  use  poles  or  stakes  up  to 
the  fall  of  this  year  or  the  early  spring  following,  when 
we  put   up  our  trellis  of   three  wires,    the   first  one 


300  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

eighteen  inches  from  the  ground,  and  the  others 
twelve  or  fourteen  inches  apart.      The  two  canes  of 

last  year  are  now  made  to  act  as  arms,  thus -^ , 

the}^  being  wound  around  and  tied  to  the  lower  wire. 
We  now  let  all  the  shoots  grow,  pinching  back  every 
other  one  to  the  second  wire.  In  the  fall  the  longest 
ones,  or  those  permitted  to  grow  unchecked,  are  cut 
back  to  within  two  eyes  of  the  arm,  and  the  others 
permitted  to  grow  unchecked  the  following  season  as 
far  as  the  top  of  the  wires.  One  cane  is  also  per- 
mitted to  grow  from  each  cane  which  was  cut  back, 
these  being  for  the  fruiting  canes  the  following  year — 
the  others  being  cut  back  in  the  fall  to  two  eyes,  the 
same  as  the  other  canes  the  preceding  fall.  If  the 
vine  be  very  short  jointed  we  have  found  that  fruiting 
canes  from  every  other  eye  was  too  much  of  a  drain 
upon  the  vine,  especially  with  young  vines,  and  we 
then  use  onl}^  ever}^  third  eye;  or,  to  make  it  still  more 
plain,  we  try  to  leave  from  four  to  six  inches  of  space 
between  the  fruiting  canes. 

About  every  fourth  or  fifth  year  we  have  found  it  to 
be  a  good  plan  to  renew  the  arms,  which  is  readily 
done  by  permitting  a  young  shoot  to  grow  near  the 
base  of  the  vine  on  each  side  for  one  or  two  seasons 
before  it  is  wanted,  when  the  old  arm  is  cut  away  and 
the  young  one  substituted. 

Cleaning  Silver  or  Metal. 

Camphene  oil  and  rotten  stone  give  a  far  brighter 
polish  than  can  be  obtained  by  the  use  of  other  pow- 
ders, Camphene  is  used  in  producing  the  exquisite 
polish  of  the  photo  plates.  Nothing  has  been  found  to 
equal  it. 


TJtc  Queen  Cook  Book  30 1 


A  Few  Suggestions. 

Every  good  housekeeper  knows  the  advantage  of  an 
early  start  in  the  morning,  after  having  everything 
prepared  to  make  a  quick  fire,  and  the  breakfast 
planned  the  day  before. 

After  breakfast  always  plan  for  the  next  three  meals. 

Monday  morning,  plan  the  work  for  the  week  as  far 
as  is  necessary.      Usually  Monday  is  wash  day. 

Tuesday  is  ironing. 

Wednesday  for  sweeping  and  dusting. 

Thursday,  see  that  everything  is  washed  up  and 
refilled,  such  as  sugar  bowl,  salt  dishes,  etc. 

Friday,  clean  pantr}^  cupboards  and  kitchen. 

Saturday,  baking  for  the  week,  and  prepare,  as  far 
as  possible,  for  Sunday  dinner. 

Of  course,  many  other  things  will  step  in  and  demand 
the  attention,  and  all  has  to  be  done  in  time  and  anti- 
cipated, thereby  avoiding  much  worry  and  confusion. 

Study  3'our  cook  book  as  you  would  any  other  lesson, 
not  only  just  as  it  is  wanted,  but  at  leisure  moments. 

Keep  all  the  groceries,  cereals,  etc.,  in  glass  or  tin 
cans,  covered  tight. 

Always  keep  a  supply  of  rolled  cracker  on  hand, 
rolling  the  broken  ones;   keep  in  covered  jar. 

It  is  best  to  have  everything  ready  for  use  when 
wanted;  therefore,  everything  should  be  perfectly  clean 
when  put  away. 

Always  use  a  wooden  spoon  to  stir  all  kinds  of 
fruits  and  tomatoes  while  cooking. 

Never  throw  water  on  burning  oil  (as  it  spreads  it); 
throw  on  flour,  ashes  or  earth. 

Keep  gasoline,  kerosene  and  coal  oil  cans  in  the 
wood-house,  and  not  near  any  food. 


302  The  Quccii  Cook  Book 

If  your  clothes  take  fire  do  not  run  about,  or  out  of 
doors;  if  you  can  not  slip  them  off  quickly;  get  the 
nearest  woolen  goods,  such  as  a  shawl,  blanket  or 
carpet,  overcoat,  or  anything  to  wrap  around  3'ou,  and 
roll  on  the  floor  to  extinguish  the  flames. 

Use  crash  for  dish  towels  or  dish  cloths. 

Always  provide  yourselves  with  little  conveniences 
for  working,  such  as  holders,  brushes,  etc.  Keep  a 
stick  with  a  strip  of  cotton  cloth  tied  on  the  end  of  it 
to  butter  the  baking  pans.  Use  salt  pork  for  griddle 
greasers. 

Purchase  only  the  quantity  of  sweet  potatoes  you 
can  use  in  a  week,  as  they  do  not  keep  long.  Do  not 
purchase  more  than  you  can  use  before  it  spoils;  you 
will  soon  learn  the  bill  of  fare  if  you  really  desire  to  be 
a  helpmeet. 

Keep  house  on  a  cash  basis  and  do  not  purchase 
unless  you  can  pay  down. 

When  going  to  housekeeping  purchase  steel  silver- 
plated  knives,  as  they  are  sharper  than  the  white 
metal. 

Pieces  of  bread  should  be  dried  in  heater,  grated, 
and  kept  in  tight  jar  ready  for  puddings  or  croquettes. 
With  a  little  care  there  will  not  be  many. 

Clean  bottles  with  shot,  soap  and  ashes;  clean  the 
shot  for  next  time. 

Use  spirits  of  camphor  to  take  out  fresh  paint,  but 
if  dried  on  persevere  with  spirits  of  turpentine. 

To  clean  steel  knives,  cut  a  raw  potato  in  two.  and 
dip  in  brick-dust,  rub  hard. 

Take  one  teaspoon  of  spirits  of  ammonia  to  one  cup 
of  hot  v^ater,  to  clean  coat  collars,  woolen  goods,  rusty 
silk,  or  spots  on  carpet.      Good  to  clean  silver. 

Never  put  new  papering  over  old.  It  is  very  easily 
taken  off  by  putting  two  or  three  pails  of  boiling  hot 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  303 

water  in  the  closed  room,  as  often  as  it  stops  steaming, 
till  it  will  peel  off;  perhaps  two  clays  or  more.  Where 
it  does  not  peel  off  easily  take  a  pail  of  hot  water  soak 
paper  with  a  cloth  and  scrape  the  wall  clear  of  paste 
with  a  sharp  scraper  till  perfectly  smooth. 

Every  farmer  should  purchase  a  reliable  recipe  book 
for  his  wife's  next  birthday,  or  for  Christmas — which 
ever  comes  first — that  his  table  may  be  furnished  with 
nourishing  food,  and  in  such  a  variety  as  to  satisfy  the 
cravings  of  nature.  What  is  lacking  at  the  daily  table 
is  sometimes  made  up  out  of  the  stimulus  of  tobacco 
and  whisky.  Farmers  should  provide  all  kinds  of 
fresh  meats,  vegetables,  fruits,  milk,  butter,  eggs  and 
cereals  for  their  own  table  and  then  raise  to  sell.  Do 
not  save  them  only  for  company.  Man  or  woman  can 
not  work  with  profit  more  than  ten  hours  a  day.  What 
is  needed  on  the  farm,  next  to  plenty  of  sleep,  is 
plenty  of  food  and  a  variety  on  the  table  at  all  three 
of  its  spreads.  Good  sweet  bread,  meat,  fruit,  un- 
skimmed new  milk,  should  be  eaten  as  appetite  desires, 
and  not  salt  meat  and  fried  potatoes,  or  boiled  with 
the  skins  on,  three  times  a  day.  Under  the  influence 
of  good  food  and  sleep,  and  the  ten-hour  law,  our  skel- 
eton boys  and  girls,  whose  lives  are  on  the  farm,  would 
put  on  flesh  and  the  bloom  of  youth,  and  would  have 
some  light  in  their  eyes  and  some  happiness  in  their 
hearts.  Does  not  the  farmer's  wife  need  help  in  the 
kitchen,  as  well  as  help  on  the  farm  }  An  over 
wearied  body  can  not  keep  up  a  cheerful  heart. 

Ignorant  mistresses  make  poor  servants  and  receive 
poor  service  from  what  would  be  good  material  if 
properly  directed. 

While  princesses  are  taught  the  rules  of  cooking 
and  dressmaking  and  to  know  how  long  it  takes  a 
woman  and  a  broom  to  sweep  and  dust  a  room,  there» 


304  TJic  Queen  Cook  Book 

arc  many  daughters  in  our  country  who  have  felt  it 
beneath  them  to  learn  the  necessary  duties  of  hfe,  and 
when  married  have  not  known  whether  they  were  re- 
quiring impossibihties  of  their  one  servant  or  other- 
wise. There  are  so  many  helps  nowadays  that  no 
beginner  need  be  discouraged  if  she  keeps  patience 
and  perseverance  at  her  side.  A  cook,  if  such  a  per- 
son has  any  inherent  capacity,  can  be  made  a  good 
cook  only  by  an  intelligent  mistress.  Good  health  in 
our  homes  is  more  to  be  considered  than  sumptuous 
upholstery,  elegant  dinners  or  expensive  table  service. 
A  beautiful  home  is  a  comfortable  one.  The  condi- 
tion of  the  mind  has  more  influence  upon  the  bodily 
health  than  is  generally  supposed.  It  is  no  doubt  true 
that  diseases  of  the  body  cause  a  depressing  and  mor- 
bid condition  of  the  mind,  but  it  is  no  less  true  that 
sorrowful  and  disagreeable  emotions  produce  disease 
in  persons  who,  uninfluenced  by  them,  would  be  in 
sound  health.  Or,  if  disease  is  not  produced,  the 
functions  are  disordered.  Agreeable  emotions  set  in  mo- 
tion nervous  currents  which  stimulate  the  blood,  brain 
and  every  part  of  the  system  into  healthful  activity; 
while  grief,  disappointment  of  feeling  and  brooding 
over  present  sorrows  or  past  mistakes  depress  all  vital 
forces.  To  be  physically  well  one  must  in  general  be 
happy.  The  reverse  is  not  always  true.  One  may 
be  happy  and  cheerful  and  yet  be  a  constant  sufferer 
in  body.  Let  us  all  see  that  we  have  the  free  sun- 
shine of  the  soul  in  our  homes. 

We  and  our  children,  as  well  as  all  plant  life,  need 
the  full  light  of  the  sun  to  shine  upon  us  daily,  and  its 
subtle  tonic  has  a  wonderful  curative  influence  upon 
both  our  physical  and  mental  ailments.  It  pierces 
into  the  secret  corners,  deodorizes  the  foul  places, 
kills  disease  germs  and  brings  life,  health  and  joy  on 


TJic  Qiicoi  Cook  Book  305 

its  beams.  Let  us  have  the  lovely  dancing  sunlight  in 
our  homes. 

Let  fresh  air  from  the  outside  find  access  in  all  the 
sleeping  rooms  all  the  year  round  (except  when  down 
to  zero).  I  believe  there  are  many  early  graves  from 
breathing  foul  air  at  night  that  has  been  breathed  over 
and  over  again.  How  weak  and  languid  one  feels 
after  sleeping  in  a  closed  room.  Pure  air  and  sun- 
light go  far  toward  the  making  of  the  perfect  man, 
but  their  action  must  be  supplemented  by  that  of 
plain,  nutritious  food  to  attain  the  best  results.  With 
more  simplicity  in  our  homes  there  would  be  fewer 
tired,  anxious  faces.  I  will  give  you  a  sample  of  the 
table  for  one  day  of  an  intelligent  lady  that  did  her 
own  work  except  the  washing  and  scrubbing. 

Breakfast — White  and  graham  bread,  cold  meat, 
fruit,  coffee. 

Dinner — Meat,  potatoes,  one  other  vegetable,  fruit 
or  a  very  simple  baked  pudding. 

Tea — Bread  of  both  kinds,  fruit,  cocoa. 

The  problem  of  how  to  "  make  both  ends  meet  "  is 
a  serious  one  in  most  of  households.  Two  things  are 
very  essential  in  the  management  of  small  resources, 
either  of  strength  or  of  means;  one  should  be  very 
careful  not  to  overdraw  on  either,  and  it  is  very  neces- 
sary to  cultivate  the  faculty  of  making  the  best  use 
possible  of  what  one  has — to  cling  to  the  essential  and 
leave  the  non-essentials  till  a  convenient  time. 

Industry  and  economy  are  both  as  essential  in 
housekeeping  as  in  any  other  department  of  life. 
Economy  is  simply  the  art  of  gathering  up  all  the 
fragments  so  that  nothing  be  lost,  fragments  of  time 
as  well  as  of  material.  Nothing  should  be  thrown  away 
so  long  as  it  is  possible  to  make  use  of  it.  For  exam- 
ple:    Save  in  a  box  all  the  twine  that  comes  around 


3o6  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

the  packages  for  the  house.  Fold  up  also  all  the 
good  wrapping  paper  and  keep  in  a  box  or  drawer,  also 
all  the  good  paper  bags;  they  will  all  be  found  useful. 

When  about  to  furnish  a  home,  purchase  as  few 
things  as  possible,  as  it  is  only  by  experience  that 
one  can  tell  what  v/ill  be  the  needs  of  that  home. 
It  is  wise  to  keep  an  account  of  all  one  spends;  this 
answers  a  double  purpose,  as  it  enables  one  to  know 
whether  he  is  living  within  his  income,  and  it  is  also 
good  for  reference. 

No  false  pride  or  foolish  ambition  to  appear  just 
like  some  one  else,  should  ever  tempt  us  to  live  quite 
up  to  our  income.  To  lay  up  one-sixth  or  one-tenth 
for  an  emergency  is  a  good  rule.  "  Economy  is  a 
poor  man's  revenue;  extravagance  a  rich  man's 
ruin."  True  economy  is  not  covetousness,  or  parsi- 
moniousness,  which  is  the  ruin  of  many  an  otherwise 
happy  family. 

A  penurious  person  is  not  a  happy  one,  and  he  is 
always  afraid  others  will  be  happy;  when  his  children 
grow  up,  he  may  meet  with  no  penurious  reward,  if 
brought  up  without  the  love  of  God  in  their  hearts. 

Your  child  is  not  your  child  in  the  sense  which  it  is 
commonly  thought  to  be.  It  is  not  only  connected 
with  your  life  but  with  an  older  and  wider  life  back  of 
yours.  The  child  is  not  only  the  outgrowth  of  its 
father's  and  mother's  life,  but  is  the  latest  manifesta- 
tion of  a  larger  and  wider  life  which  circles  through 
the  arteries  of  society.  A  recognition  of  these  facts 
will  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  your  child  is  not  a 
gift,  but  a  loan  to  you,  to  instruct,  counsel  and  polish 
for  the  Giver  of  Life.  We  are  to  consider  that  each 
child  has  an  individuality  of  its  own,  different  from 
any  child  that  ever  before  existed,  and  our  duty  is  to 
bring  out  its  best  capacities.     "  Oh,  banish  the  tears 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  307 

of  children  !  Continual  rains  upon  the  blossoms  are 
hurtful."  It  is  a  great  defect  in  parents  not  to  be 
able  to  govern  themselves.  Here  "  let  patience  have 
its  perfect  work."  Do  not  punish  children  merely  be- 
cause you  have  the  power.  Scold  never.  Do  not 
punish  cruell}^ 

We  are  glad  to  see  that  whipping,  both  in  schools 
and  at  home,  is  being  done  away  with  by  the  most 
cultivated  and  enlightened  class  of  people.  Do  not 
be  impatient  with  a  child  because  it  made  a  mistake 
or  met  with  an  accident,  but  encourage  them  to  try 
again.  Mistakes  are  often  our  best  teachers  and  de- 
velopers. Let  the  child  understand  this,  that  it  be 
not  discouraged.  Is  not  the  average  child  made  to 
feel  that  a  mistake  is  the  worst  thing  that  could  hap- 
pen to  him  }  This  is  a  great  fallacy.  Does  a  mother 
require  an  infant  to  perform  the  feat  of  walking  alone 
till  he  has  learned  through  many  failures  }  Or  what 
teacher  would  expect  his  pupil  to  learn  to  read  or  to 
write  without  making  a  mistake  .'  The  honest  effort 
should  be  approved  and  encouragement  given  that 
will  surely  meet  with  success. 

Children  need  outdoor  plays  and  work.  Give  them 
a  little  garden  of  their  own  to  care  for  and  let  them 
help  you  or  think  they  do,  and  take  an  interest  in  all 
things  that  you  are  interested  in;  they  can  lend  a 
helping  hand  in  the  door^^ard  or  trimming  up  the 
dead  or  wayward  branches  of  the  shrubbery.  Let 
them  feel  a  sense  of  responsibility  and  proprietorship, 
which  will  add  to  their  enjoyment  in  their  work,  as  it 
stimulates  their  industry,  care  and  self-reliance.  Do 
not  crowd  the  children's  minds  with  too  many  studies. 
A  daily  bath  for  children  at  night  in  hot  weather  is 
quite  essential  to  good  health.  Always  brush  the 
children's  teeth  after  supper. 


3o8  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 


The  Medicinal  Value  of  Water. 

The  human  body  is  constantly  undergoing  tissue 
change.  Worn-out  particles  are  cast  aside  and  elim- 
inated from  the  system,  while  the  new  are  ever  being 
formed,  from  the  inception  of  life  to  its  close. 

Water  has  the  power  of  increasing  these  tissue 
changes,  which  multiplies  the  waste  products,  but  at 
the  same  time  they  are  renewed  by  its  agency,  giving 
rise  to  increased  appetite,  which  in  turn  provides 
fresh  nutriment.  Persons  but  little  accustomed  to 
drinking  water  are  liable  to  have  the  waste  products 
formed  faster  than  they  are  removed.  Any  obstruc- 
tion to  the  free  working  of  natural  laws  at  once  pro- 
duces disease,  which,  if  once  firmly  seated,  requires 
both  time  and  money  to  cure. 

People  accustomed  to  rise  in  the  morning  weak  and 
languid  will  find  the  cause  in  the  imperfect  secretion 
of  wastes,  which  many  times  may  be  remedied  by 
drinking  a  full  tumbler  of  water  before  retiring.  This 
very  materially  assists  in  the  process  during  the  night, 
and  leaves  the  tissues  fresh  and  strong,  ready  for  the 
active  work  of  the  day. 

To  drink  hot  water  is  one  of  our  best  remedial 
agents. 

A  hot  bath  on  going  to  bed,  even  in  the  hot  nights 
of  summer,  is  a  better  relitver  of  insomnia  than  many 
drugs. 

Inflamed  parts  will  subside  under  the  continual 
poulticing  of  real  hot  water. 

Very  hot  water,  as  we  all  know,  is  a  prompt  checker 
of  bleeding,  and  besides,  if  it  is  clean,  as  it  should  be, 
it  aids  in  sterlizing  wounds. 

HalFs  foiinial  of  HealtJi. 


TJic  Queen  Cook  Book  309 

There  must  ever  be  sympathy  of  occupation  be- 
tween the  united  heads  of  the  household.  The  wife 
must  not  feel  that  the  husband  has  had  no  struggles  at 
the  store,  office,  or  shop;  also  the  husband  must  realize 
that  the  wife  has  had  to  endure  many  disappointments 
through  the  day  and  only  half  the  Vvork  is  accom- 
plished that  she  anticipated.  Let  a  note  of  sympathy 
or  a  helping  hand  be  extended  to  each  other,  ever  ob- 
serving the  small  courtesies  of  life  in  your  daily  inter- 
course. Your  gains  are  one.  your  interests  are  one, 
}our  losses  are  one;  lay  hold  of  the  work  of  life  cheer- 
fully, with  two  heads  to  plan,  four  hands  to  work, 
four  eyes  to  watch,  four  shoulders  on  which  shall  rest 
its  joys  or  trials.  Every  woman  should  have  a 
thorough  knowledge  of  the  chemistry  of  foods  and 
cooking,  in  order  to  understand  the  composition  of 
substances,  and  the  changes  which  they  undergo,  and 
also  of  dietetics  to  regulate  the  kind  and  quantity  to  be 
eaten.  One  who  has  studied  the  question  for  years 
says:  "  Not  only  the  age  and  occupation,  but  also  the 
individuality  of  the  person  play  an  important  part  in 
the  regulation  of  diet,  and  decide  not  only  the  quan- 
tity but  also  the  kind  of  food,  and  the  form  in  which  it 
is  to  be  taken.  For  the  proper  assimilation  of  the 
nourishment  and  its  complete  effect  in  the  organism, 
the  food  must  be  agreeable;  it  must  relish.  A  supply 
of  needed  nourishment  is  not  enough,  man  requires 
yet  more.  He  must  find  his  food  pleasing  to  the 
taste.  The  boiling  and  roasting  of  food  materials  are 
operations  which  we  find  only  among  civilized  people, 
and  they  have  been  developed  with  the  advance  of 
civilization.  The  whole  art  of  coo''ing  amounts  to 
this:  So  to  prepare  food  that  it  will  best  sustain  a 
healthy,  vigorous  life."  Dr.  J.  Konig,  Berlin. 


310  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

"  The  nutrition  of  the  animal  body,  that  is,  the  as- 
similation of  the  food  taken,  is  dependent  upon  ab- 
sorption. This  depends  upon  previous  chemical  pro- 
cesses. These  processes  are  contingent  upon  the 
secretions,  the  saliva,  the  gastric  juice,  etc. ;  and  it  is 
a  well  known  fact  that  the  liow  of  these  liquids  is,  to  a 
great  extent  under  the  control  of  the  nerves.  What- 
ever excites  the  nerves  pleasantly,  causes  an  abundant 
secretion  of  the  chemical  agents  of  food  change.  In 
this  fact  lies  the  secret  of  modern  cooking,  and  the 
judicious  use  of  condiments  or  relishes." 

The  Chemistry  of  Cooking. 

Petterhofer  says  of  condiments:  "  I  may  compare 
them  to  the  right  use  of  lubricants  for  an  engine, 
which  indeed  can  not  replace  the  steam  power,  but 
may  help  it  to  a  much  easier  and  more  regular  action, 
and  besides,  prevents,  quite  naturally,  the  wearing  out 
of  the  machine.  In  order  to  do  this,  one  condition  is 
absolutely  necessary:  the  lubricant  must  not  attack 
the  machine;  it  must  be  harmless." 

If  any  are  dyspeptic,  let  them  replenish  their  vital 
energies  with  oxygen,  by  exercise  in  the  open  air. 
Nature  will  often  restore  itself,  if  it  is  not  clogged  by 
ourselves. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  3 1 1 


HINTS  FOR  THE  TABLE. 

"  Entice  all  neatly  to  what  they  know  best, 
For  so  thou  dost  thyself  and  lum  a  pleasure." 

Geo.  Herbert. 

Every  housekeeper,  after  making  out  her  bill  of  fare, 
will  endeavor,  as  far  as  is  in  her  power,  to  serve  it  ac- 
ceptably to  those  who  sit  at  her  table,  and  in  a  well 
arranged,  dainty  and  pretty  way.  If  one  has  the  means, 
there  are  innumerable  articles  to  be  had  for  the  money 
which  beautify  the  table.  Yet,  for  those  whose  means 
are  limited,  there  are  also  many  ways  in  which  the 
table  may  be  made  altogether  a  delight  to  those  who 
sit  about  it.  The  first  requisites  are  clean  white  linen 
table  covers  and  napkins,  which  may  be  adorned  with 
a  pretty  center-piece,  embroidered  by  some  member 
of  the  family,  on  which  may  rest  a  bowl  or  vase  of 
fresh  garden  or  wild  flowers,  or  in  winter  a  fernery.  A 
fernery  may  be  made  by  gathering  small  ferns  with 
the  roots,  and  planting  them  in  earth,  in  a  metal 
basin,  which  can  be  placed  in  an  outside  basket 
of  silver,  celluloid,  or  basket-work.  Something 
we  already  have  on  hand  may  answer  the  pur- 
pose, as  a  lady  I  know  used  the  bottom  of  an 
old-fashioned  silver  castor,  which  made  a  very  hand- 
some receptacle  for  the  basin  of  ferns.  Doylies, 
platter  or  tray  cloths,  and  candlesticks  with  col- 
ored shades  also  add  to  the  completeness  and  adorn- 
ment of  the  modern  table.  Tasteful,  though  inexpen- 
sive tableware,  if  china  is  not  within  reach,  and  all  the 
eatables  served  in  a  dainty  way,  and  in  their  proper 
course — not  everything  on  the  table  at  once — all  tend 
to  make  a  meal  acceptable  and  enjoyable.  If  one 
does  not  have  the  opportunity  of  seeing  the  novelties 
brought  out,  or  of  attending  a  fashionable  dinner  or 


3 1 2  TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 

lunch  party,  there  is  so  much  information  given  in 
papers,  periodicals  and  books,  that  one  can  keep  well 
informed  on  the  modes  of  the  day. 

"  A  table  full  of  welcome 
Makes  scarce  one  dainty  dish. 

Shakespeare. 

Every  one  must  n:iake  out  her  bill  of  fare  according 
to  circumstances  and  the  season  of  the  year.  A  few 
are  given  which  may  prove  helpful  and  suggestive. 

Breakfast  Menus.     No.   i. 

Fruit. 

Cracked  Wheat     Cream  and  Sugar 

Broiled    Chicken       Potatoes,    Hashed    and  Browned 

Rolls     Coffee 

Breakfast  No.  2. 

Peaches  and  Grapes 

Pork  Chops       Creamed  Potatoes      Graham  Muffins 

Coffee     Griddle  Cakes     Maple  Syrup 

Breakfast  No.  3. 

Steamed  Hominy  Sugar  and  Cream 

Lamb  Chops         Baked  Potatoes         Scrambled  Eggs 

Coffee 

Breakfast  No.  4. 

Fruit. 
Oat  Meal      Sugar  and  Cream 
Beef  Steak      French   Fried  Potatoes      Boiled  Eggs 
Coffee      Dry  Toast 


llie  Queen  Cook  Book  3 1 3 

Breakfast  No.   5. 

Melons 

Cod  Fish  Balls      Poached  Eggs      Corn  Meal  Muffins 

Coffee 

Breakfast  Menu  No.  6. 

Canteloupe 
Creamed  Fish     Potatoes  a  la  Royal     Tomatoes 
Rolls     Dry  Toast     Coffee 

Dinner  Menu  No.    i. 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell 

Cream  of  Chicken  with  Noodles 

Boiled  White  Fish  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Small   Round  Potatoes 

Ribs  of  Beef  Mashed  Potatoes 

Two    vegetables    in    season 

Spiced  Pickles     Currant  Jelly 

Lettuce   Salad  with  French   Dressing 

Wafers  or  Thin  Bread  and  Butter 

Pineapple  Sherbet  Small  Cakes 

Coffee     Fruit     Nuts 

Dinner  No.  2. 

Cream  of  Celery  Crackers 

Oyster  Patties      Small  Rolls 

Roast  Turkey  or  Duck 

Potatoes,   Mashed  Two  other  Vegetables 

Spiced  Peaches       Olives       Celery 

Lettuce  Salad  with  Dressing 

Plum  Pudding  with  Foaming  Sauce 

Ice  Cream  Cakes 

Coffee 


314  The  Queen  Cook  Book 


Dinner  No.  3. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup     Crackers 
Steamed   White   Fish   with   Mayonnaise   Dressing  or 
Sauce  Tartare 
Roast  Saddle  of  Venison     Sauce      Grape  Jam 
Roast  Duck 
Macaroni,  Celery,  Pickles   and  Vegetables 
Bread  and  Butter 
Squash    or    Lemon    Pie       Peach    Meringue 
Cheese  Fruits  Nuts 

Coffee 

Menu  for  New  Year's  Dinner. 

Tomato  Soup     Crackers 

Roast  Goose  or  Duck  Mashed  Potatoes 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes     Creamed  Corn 

Fried  Oysters         Apple  Sauce 

Jelly         Celery  Pickles 

Brown  Bread         White  Bread 

Baked  Indian  Pudding 

Ice  Cream 

Coffee         Mixed  Nuts 

Oranges. 

Thanksgiving  Dinner. 

First  Course. 
Blue  Points  on  the  Half  Shell     Wafers 

Second  Course. 

Consomm6 

Celery  Olives  Almonds 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book  3 1 5 

Third  Course. 

Fish  Souffle         Puffed  Potatoes 

Fourth   Course. 

Roast  Turkey       Chicken  Pie      Parisienne  Potatoes 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Corn  or  Succotash  Gooseberry  Catsup 

Cranberry  Jam     Pickles 

Fifth   Course. 

Lettuce  Salad         Wafers 

Sixth   Course. 

English  Plum  Pudding  with  Foaming  Sauce 

Seventh   Course. 

Mince  Pie  Orange  Jelly 

Coffee 

Eighth    Course. 
Fruit  Nuts  Raisins 

Dinner  No.  4. 

First  Course. 

Cream  Oyster  Soup  with  Wafers  and  Celery 

Second  Course. 

Roast  Beef  with  Browned  Mashed  Potatoes 

Corn  Tomatoes  Peas 

TJiird  Course. 

Lettuce  sa^ad  with  thin  Bread  and  Butter 

FoiirtJi  Course. 

Pudding  or  Pie,  or  only 

Ice  Cream  Cakes 

Fifth  Course. 

Coffee  Fruit 


3 1 6  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

Lunch  Menu  No.  i 

First  Course. 
Bouillon  Served  in  Small  China  Cups 

Seeond  Course. 
Lamb  Chops  Saratoga  Chips 

Rolls  and  Bread 

Tliird  Course. 

Chicken  Salad  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing 
Wafers  Salted  Almonds  Olives 

Fourtli  Course. 

Ice  Cream  Cakes 

Chocolate  with  Whipped  Cream 

Fruit 
Flowers  are  Always  Appropriate 

Lunch  No.  2. 

First  Course. 

Escalloped  Oysters  Baked  Potatoes 

Bread      Spiced  Pickles      Biscuit 

Second  Course. 
Lettuce  and  Egg  Salad  with  Dressing 

Third  Course. 

Grape  Fruit  Served  with  Chopped  Ice 
Cake  Coffee 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  3 1 7 

Lunch  No.   3. 

First  Course. 
Bouillon  Served  in  Small  Cups 

Second  Course. 
Fried  Sweet  Breads  Escalloped  Potatoes 

Minced  Ham  Sandwiches 
Rolls  Celery  Olives  Pickles 

Third  Course. 
Chicken  Salad     Wafers 

Fourth  Course. 

Peach  Sherbet  Mixed  Cake 

Coffee      Chocolate  with  Whipped  Cream 

Fruit  and  Flowers 

Supper  Menu. 

First  Course. 

White  Fish,  a  la  Creme 

Served  in  individual  shells 

Second  Course. 

Sweet  Breads  French  Peas 

Julienne  Potatoes         Bread  and  Rolls 

Cheese  Straws.  Olives  Pickles 

Third  Course. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange  with  Whipped  Cream 

Cake  Coffee  Cocoa 

In   the  season    the    combination    of  vanilla   blanc 

mange  with  fresh  raspberries   and  whipped  cream  is 

delicious.      Other  fruits  may  be  substituted  in  their 

season. 


3i8  The  Queen  Cook  Book 

Allowance  of   Supplies   for  an  Evening  Enter- 
tainment. 

It  is  usually  safe  to  provide  for  only  about  two- 
thirds  out  of  every  hundred  invited,  Allov/  one 
quart  of  oysters  for  four  persons  present;  six  white 
chickens,  a  ten  or  twelve  pound  turkey,  and  twenty 
heads  of  celery  for  chicken  salad,  are  enough  for  fifty 
guests;  one  gallon  of  ice  cream  to  every  twenty  guests; 
one  hundred  sandwiches  for  sixty  guests. 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

2  heaping  teaspoons=  i  heaping  tablespoon. 

2  teaspoons  of  liquid  =  i  tablespoon. 

5  tablespoons  of  liquid=  i  gill. 

2  tablespoons  of  liquid=  i  ounce. 

4  gills=  I  pint. 

I  small  coffeecup=  y^  pint. 

4  cups  flour=  I  quart. 

1  heaping  quart  flour=  i  pound. 

2  rounded  tablespoons  fIour=  i  ounce. 
I  y2  pints  corn  meal=  i  pound. 

3  cups  corn  meal=  i  pound. 
I  cup  butter=  ^  pound. 

I  pint  butter==  i  pound. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg=  2  ounces. 
I  rounded  tablespoon  of  butter=  i  ounce. 
I  pint  chopped  meat=  i  pound, 
lo  eggs=  I  pound. 

1  pint  coffee  sugar=  i  pound. 

2  cups  coffee  sugar=  i   pound 
2^  cups  powdered  sugar=  i  pound. 

I  heaping  pint  brown  sugar=  i  pound. 


The  Queen  Cook  Book  319 

Dry  Measure. 

16  ounces  make  i  pound        2  pints  make  i  quart 
4  gills  make  i  pint  4  quarts  make  i  gallon. 

Long  Measure. 

12  inches  make  i  foot         3  feet  i  yard 
5j^  yards  make  i  rod        4  rods  make  i   furlong 
320  rods  make  i  mile. 


To  Keep  Mold  from  Jell. 

After  turning  the  jell  into  glasses,  and  it  is  cooled, 
butter  the  top  of  the  paper  placed  over  the  jell. 


INDEX 


♦The  asterisks  designate  favorite  recipes  of  the  author. 


Accidents,  In  Case  of 274 

Adulterations,     or     What 

People  Eat 277-279 

Alum,  Is  Alum  Poisonous.  276 

Amarylis,  Scarlet 299 

Ants,  Black 292 

Ants,  Red 296,  297 

Apple  Sauce 130,  221 

Apple  Worm 295 

Asparagus  on  Toast 123 

Asthma 288 

Beans,  Lima 122 

Pickled 123 

*Boston  Baked 122 

Bed  Bugs 297 

Bed,  Soft 281 

Beef  Balls 58 

Cakes — Raw 58 

Cold  Pressed 58 

Cooked  Dried 56 

Corn  Hash 56 

Croquettes 53 

Boiled  Soup  Bone. . . . 

Broiled  Steak 52 

A  Flank  of 53 

Fillet  of 50 

Fresh  Hashes 56 

I'Oaf 54 

Meat  Pie 55 

a  la  Mode 51 

Roast,  With  Yorkshire 

Pudding 49 

To   Fry  a    Round    or 

Tough  Steak 53 

Scalloped  Meats 54 

Scraped      for      Sand- 
wiches      57 

Spiced 55 


Stuffed  Roast 54 

Tea  for  Invalids,  No.  i  57 
Tea  for  Invalids,  No.  2  57 
*A  Nice  Brine  to  Pickle    58 

Beets,  Baked 119 

Boiled iig 

For  Winter 120 

Biscuit,  *Baking  powder. .      16 

Bread 21 

Cream 17 

Egg 25 

Maryland 24 

Raised  Tea 18 

Bread  and  Biscuit 9,  10 

*Bottled  Yeast,  for...     11 

Baked  Graham 13 

Boston  Brown 13,  14 

Corn  for  Breakfast. . .     21 

Corn  Bread 22 

Corn ig 

Graham  without  Yeast     14 

Rye  Baked 13 

Rye  and  Indian 12 

For  the  Sea 12 

Salt  Rising 11 

*Without  a  Sponge. . .  240 
Wheat  and  Indian. ...     21 

Brain 249 

Bruises    281 

Bulbs 299 

Burns 257,  258,  280 

Butter,  To  Make 241 

Cake,   Mixing i8g 

*Almond 200 

Almonds,    To    Blanch  200 

Angel's    Food 204,  205 

Chocolate 201 

*Cocoanut 201 


322 


The  Qutc7i  Cook  Book 


*Confectionery 193 

Cup 198,  203 

Delicate 196 

^Delicate 196 

Delicate 196,200 

Dried  Apple 195 

One  Egg  206 

*Frait 192 

Fruit,  Plain 193 

Fruit,  Rich. ...    193 

Fruit,  Good 194 

Fruit,  Verj^  Nice 194 

Fruit,  White 195 

Gold 204 

Ice  Cream 200 

Imperial 194 

*Loaf 192,  197 

Molasses 206 

*White  Mountain 201 

*Pound 198 

Queen's 203 

Silver     204 

Sunshine 206 

Sponge 198,  199 

*Sponge  Cake  Cream 

Pie 142,  204 

Layer  Cakes. 

Washington 202 

Dark 203 

Fig  Layer ig'7 

Hickory  Nut 196 

Lemonor  Orange  Jelly  202 
Light  Marble  Layer. .  203 

*Icing  for 207 

Icing,   Boiled 207 

Rule  for  Frosting 207 

*Chocolate  and  Cocoa- 
nut  Jumbles 211 

*Ginger  Snaps 210 

Baker  Cookies 212 

Ginger  Cookies 210 

Sugared  Cookies 211 

New  England  Cookies  211 
Gingerbread,  Soft  and 

Hard 208,  209 

Cream  Shortcake 23 

*Orange  Shortcake. 24,  173 
*Strawberry  Short- 
cake  24,  174 


Fried 28 

Crullers 211 

Doughnuts,  Queen    of    28 

Raised,  Fried 29 

*Bread,  Griddle 23 

Rice,  Griddle 23 

Buckwheat 22 

Flour,  Griddle 23 

Sweet  Corn,  Griddle. .     23 

Cabbage,  Cooking 125 

Dressing loi,   126 

Salad 233 

Canaries,  Care  of 247 

Cancer,  To  Take  Out 289 

Candy,  How  to  Pull 237 

Chocolate  Caramels. . .  238 

Cream  Chocolates 238 

Fig 237 

Ice  Cream 178,  236 

Molasses 238,  177 

Of  Any  Flavor 178 

Pea  Nut 238 

Walnut 230 

Canning  Fruits 212 

Apple 214 

Citron,      Melon,     Pre- 
served  220 

Peaches 215 

Pears 216 

Pineapple 219,  220 

Plums 216,  217 

Quinces 217 

Raspberries 218 

Tomatoes 220 

Strawberries 218 

Carving 239 

Carrots,  Boiled  and  Fried.   121 
Catarrh  and  Catarrh  Snuff  260 

Catsup  "Gooseberry 233 

Tomato 233 

Cold 234 

Cauliflower,  Boiled 124 

Celery  and  Radishes 125 

Celery  Care  of 243 

Cement,  a  Useful 298 

Cheese  Straws 237,  128 

Toasted 128 

Chicken,     Boiled    or 

Steamed 66,  67 


Index 


323 


Broiled  Spring 67 

Creamed 68 

Croquettes 70 

Forcemeat 78 

Fricassee,  White  and 

Brown 68 

Fried 68 

Jellied 62 

*and    Oy  s  t  e  r    C  r  o- 

quettes 71 

*PotPie 69 

*Pie  Baked 69 

Roast 67 

Salad, No.  i  and  Dress- 
ing  69,  70 

Tender 71 

Chamois  Skin,  to  Clean...  286 

Chilblains,  to  Cure 257 

Choked,  if 275 

China,  to  Mend 284 

Cocoa 31 

Coffee 32 

Coffee,  to  Make 33 

Without  Boiling 34 

Chocolate 32 

Complexion,  the 250 

Cholera,  a  Simple  Remedy 

for 271 

Cholera,  this  is  from  a 
Doctor  in  Siam,  by 
A.  T.  Pierson,  D.D.  272 

Consumption 259 

Convulsions 281 

Corks 276 

Corns,  to  cure 250 

*Cough  Syrup,  Wild  Black 

Cherry  Bark 254 

Cough  Syrups 255 

Cranberry  Sauce 221 

Crape,  to  Renew 286 

Curtains,  to  Wash  Lace..  287 

*Corn,  Sweet-boiled 116 

*ToDry 117 

*To  Cook  Dried  Sweet  118 

Mock  Oysters 118 

Mrs.  Rorer's  Dried. . .   118 

Roast  Green 118 

*Succotash 116 


Creams,  *American. .  .166,  171 

Blanc  Mange 172 

Blanc  Mange  Neopoli- 

tan 225 

Caramel  236 

Chocolate    Blanc 

Mange 172 

Chocolate 168 

Coffee 167 

Italian 166 

Whipped    and    Fresh 

Made  Jelly 172 

Peach  Meringue 171 

Lemon  Snow 166 

*Spanish 168 

Strawberry 166 

Whipped ;   167 

Creeping  Charley 292 

Croup,  a  Remedy  for 260 

Of  Children 261 

Crumpets 20 

Cut  A 275 

Almond  Custard 251 

Custard,    Baked 169 

Boiled 169 

Cocoanut 170 

Chocolate 170 

Fluff 168 

Floating  Island 169 

Lemon,    Keep    Three 

Days 171 

Moonshine 

Orange 170 

Curculio 295 

Currant  Worms 294 

Dandelions  for  Greens 125 

Diarrhoea,  Chronic 274 

Diphtheria,  Salt  for 267 

Sulphur 266 

and  Scarlet  Fever 267 

Disinfectants 270 

Dresses,  to  Starch,  Black..  286 

Ear,  Wax  in  the 275 

Earache 289 

Eels,  Stewed  or  Fried 89 

Eggs,  Boiled 102,  103 

a  la  Cream 107 

Gems 107 


;24 


The  Queen  Cook  Book 


a  la  Lavallette 107 

Poached 104 

Omelet 105 

*Omelet,  Bob  the   Sea 

Cook's 106 

Point  Shirly  Style 105 

*Scramblea 104 

Egg  Plant,  to  Fry 107 

Eye,  Dust  in  the 275 

Eyes,  Washes  for  Inflamed  259 
Feet  and  Ankles  Swelled. .  257 

Relief  for  Burning 280 

Felon 287 

Fever,  Scarlet 267,  269 

Fire,  to  Smother 275 

To  Guard  Against 276 

Fish,  Baked 80 

Boiled 80 

Boiled  Cod 86 

Broiled 83 

*Cod  Fish  Balls 85 

*Creamed  Cod 85 

Creamed 81 

A  Supper  Dish 83 

Fried 81 

Steamed 80 

Potted   Shad    or    Any 

Fresh 82 

*Souffle,    to    Bake    in 
Shells  or  Scalloped.     82 

Sturgeon 88 

*Turbot  a  la  Cream. . .     81 
Flannels,  to  Wash  White  287 

Flat  Irons 256 

Flies 291 

Frogs,  Fried 86 

Frozen    Hands,    Ears    or 

Feet 291 

Fritters,  Sweet  Corn  Oys- 
ter   27,  119 

French 28 

Japanese 27 

Plain 26 

Galettes 17 

*Gems,  Oat  Meal 20 

*Cream  Puffs 162 

*Custard  Souffle   with 
Cream  Sauce 162 


German  Puff 161 

Lemon  Puff 161 

Lemon  Meringue  Puff.  161 
Puffs  For  Tea 237 

Glass,    To    Extract   from 

Hand  or  Foot 273 

Gloves,   to     Clean    Black 

Kid 285 

Goods,  to  Clean  Cashmere  286 
To  Clean  Light 285 

Grape,  Mildew 295 

Vine  Training 299 

Grass    Stains     on    White 

Goods 285 

Gruels,  For  the  Sick 244 

Arrow   Root 245 

*Cracker  Panada 244 

Indian  Meal 244 

Milk  Porridge 244 

Oat  Meal 244 

Ham,  Baked 74 

Boiled 73 

Boiled  Cold 74 

Forcemeat 77 

Fried,  and  Eggs 74 

Pickle  for  Curing 78 

Virginia  Cured 75 

Halibut   Steak    with   Hol- 
landaise  Sauce 84 

Hints  for  the  Household. .  280 

Hints  for  the  Table 311 

Hives,  in  Children 252 

How  to  Freeze  Creams  and 
Ices 180 

Ice  Cream,  Very  Nice,  No. 

1 183 

No.  2  and  No.  3 183 

Not  so  Rich 184 

Biscuit  Glace 186 

Chocolate 185 

Cocoanut 186 

Coffee 186 

Custard,  Frozen 184 

Lemon 185 

Orange 185 

Peach 185 

Pineapple 185 

Strawberry 184 


Index 


325 


Tutti  Frutti 189 

For  the  Sick 245 

Ices,  Water 187 

Cherry 188 

Coffee 188 

Currants 188 

Grape 188 

Lemon 187 

Orange 188 

♦Pineapple 187 

Strawberry 184 

Ice  House,  to  Build  an....  243 

Indigestion 259 

Insects,  Bites  and  Stings.  250 

On  House  Plants 298 

On  Roses   and   Small 

Fruits 294 

Carbolic  Acid  for 295 

Jellies 222 

*Calf's  Foot 225 

Cranberry  Jam  and. .. 

*Currant 222 

*Lemon 223 

*Grape,  Apple,  Peach, 

Plum,    Quince    and 

Strawberry,      read 

under  Currant  Jelly  222 

*Orange    No.     i     and 

No.  2 i74i  175 

*Wine 223 

To  Keep  Mould  From  319 
Jugs,  To  Clean  Mouldy. . .  247 
Lamb,  Baked,  Boiled  and 

Broiled 59.  60 

Chops 60 

Lady  Slippers 299 

Laughing  Cure 252 

Lime  Water,  to  Make 274 

Lobsters 86 

To  Boil  and  Open  a. .     87 

Turbot 88 

Lockjaw,  To  Cure 257 

Long  Life,  To  Insure 248 

Lung  Trouble,  For  All. . .  254 

Macaroni,  Baked 126 

Creamed 127 

a  V  Italienne 127 

Oyster 127 


Macaroons,   Almond 176 

Hickory  Nut 177 

Mackerel,    Boiled    and 

Broiled  Salt 84 

Mattresses,   Making  Over 

Hair 246 

Measure,  Dry  and  Long..  319 

Meats,  Baked 47.48 

Boiled 49 

Boiled  with  Robert 

Sauce 55 

Croquettes 71 

Measles  and  Scarlet  Fever  265 

Menus 312,318 

Meringue 171.  ^75 

Meringue,  Golden 176 

Milk,  Ropy 247 

Moths  and  Buffalo 291,  292 

Muffins  and  Gems 19 

*Corn  Meal 19 

Flour 19 

*Graham 19 

*Oat  Meal  Gems  or 

Raised 20 

Mu!3tard  Plaster 273 

Mush,  Corn  Meal 25 

Fried 26 

M  ushrooms 245 

Mutton  and  Lamb 59 

A  Boiled  Leg  of 59 

Needle,  To  Extract  from 

Foot  or  Hand 273 

Neuralgia  and  Toothache.  274 
Neuralgia  and  Headache. .  274 

Nipples,  Sore 260 

Oat  Meal,  Cracked  Wheat, 

Hominy,  Rice 26 

Onions,  Boiled 124 

Oysters,  Baked  or 

Broiled 91.92 

*Fried 91 

*Fritters 91 

*Patties 92 

Raw 93 

Scalloped 93 

^Stewed 89 

*0n  Toast 9° 

Vegetable  or  Salsify. .   124 


326 


TJie  Queen   Cook  Book 


Parsnips,  Boiled  or  Fried.   121 

Pastry,  *Putt  Paste...  132,  133 

*For  Tarts  or  Patties.    134 

A  Crust  for  Tarts. . .     134 

Pie  Crust 135 

Plain  Crust 135,  136 

Pastry,  Crust  with  Lard, .   135 
A  good  Plain  Crust. . .   136 

Peas.  *Green 121 

Piano 252 

Pickles,  *Cantaloupe, 

Spiced . .  230 

Cucumber 228 

*Mango 229 

Tomato,  Green 231 

Tomato,  Sliced 232 

Watermelon  Rinds...  230 
*Spiced  Sweet,  and 

Peaches  . .  229,  23 1 

Pie,  *Apple 136 

Cherry 138 

Cocoanut 140 

Cream  No,  i 139 

Cream  No,  2 139 

Custard 140 

*Huckleberry 142 

Lemon  No.  i  and  2. . .   141 

*Lemon  No,  3 140 

Lemon  Tarts 142 

*Mince   No,  i 143 

Mince  No,  2 144 

Mince  No,  3 145 

Orange 141 

*Peach  139 

Pieplant  or    Rhubarb  137 

*Pumpkin 137 

*Squash,    Hubbard...   138 

Washington 142 

Pigeons,  Baked 62 

Glazed   62 

*Pigs  Head  Cheese 78 

*Feet  or  Souse 79 

Piles 288 

Plants,  Worms  at  roots  of  294 

Plants  293 

Plum  Marmalade 217 

Poisoning 249 

Poisons,  Antidote  for 282 

Poison,  Oak,  Ivy,  etc 284 


Pork 71 

Fried  Salt 73,  234 

Roast  Leg  of  Fresh. , .     72 

Roast  Loin  of 72 

Steaks  and  Chops....     73 

Tenderloin 73 

Roast  Spare  Rib 72 

Potatoes,  Baked no 

Boiled  Plain 108 

Browned  with  a  Roast  113 

Croquettes 115 

Creamed  or  Hashed  109  1 14 

Curled in 

Mashed no 

New  a  la  Cream 114 

Plain  Fried no 

French  Fried 112 

LyonnaiseNo,  1 113 

Lyonnaise  No,  2 113 

Puffs  Parisienne 112 

Potato  Puffs 113 

Potatoes  a  la  Royal ,   112 

Potato  Salad 115 

Scalloped in 

Saratoga  Chips 114 

Baked  Sweet 115 

Fried  Sweet 116 

*Steamed  Sweet 115 

Cooked  over  Sweet..,   116 

Powder,  Baking 236 

Prunes,  Stewed 221 

Puddings 145 

Apple  Snow  Balls 156 

*Apple,    Tapioca     or 

Sago 155 

*Batter,  Baked 146,  153 

Boiled    or    Steamed 

Batter 147,  165 

Bread  and  Sauce 151 

Chocolate 158 

*Cocoanut    and    Corn 

Starch 160 

Cocoanut  and  Rice,. . .   160 
*Cup     Cake     and 

Sauce 153,  154 

Custard  Souffle...  162,  163 
*Corn  Meal,  Baked., ,   155 

Corn,  Sweet 150 

Easter 158 


Index 


1^7 


Frozen — Sauce  No.  4 . .  1 59 

Graham,  Steamed. .. .  150 

Graham,  More  Simple  150 

*Indian,  Baked 152 

Indian,  Boiled 151 

*Lemon  No.  i 151 

Lemon  No.  2 152 

Peach  Balls 157 

*Plum— English — Gen- 
uine   14S 

English  Plum 149 

Poor  Man's 160 

Puff 165 

Snow,  No.  I  and  No.  2 

155.  156 

A  Plain  Steamed 149 

*Steamed,  Delicious..   156 
Rice,  Plain  Boiled  ....   159 

*Rice,  Ground 153 

Rice 146,  159 

*A      Delicate     Baked 

Rice 146 

*Tapioca 154 

Puffs,  Breakfast  No.  1..22,  235 
Breakfast  No.  2. . .  161,  162 
Pressing  Leaves  and  Flow- 
ers    293 

Punkies,  to  Rid  aHouseof.  291 

Quinces,  *Baked 227 

Rats  and  Mice 297 

Rattlesnake    Poison,   Cure 

for 251 

Rhubarb    Sjrup     for    In- 
fants   255 

Rheumatism 287 

Rods,  to  Clean  Stair 259 

Roaches  and  Water  Bugs.  291 

Roses,  Wall 293 

Rolls,  French  Breakfast..     15 

Parker  House 15 

Rusks 17,  235 

Russe,  ^Charlotte 224 

Sally  Lunn,  Raised 18 

Sally   Lunn,  Baking  Pow- 
der      18 

Salmon,  Canned 82 

Creamed    82 

Pickled 88 


Salad,  *Cabbage 

*Chicken,  No.  2 101 

Crab,  Fish  or  Shrimps     98 

Boiled  Dressing 94 

Egg  and  Cream  Dress- 
ing   102,  132 

Fruit  99 

*Lobster,   No.  i 96 

Tomato 232 

Lobster,  No.  2 97 

Dressing 96,  97,  99 

Salsify,  F"ried  and  Pars- 
nips     124 

Sandwiches,  Chicken 100 

Ham 101 

Lamb 100 

Tongue 100 

Veal 100 

Sauce,  Hollandaise,  for 

Salads 94 

Drawn  Butter 93 

Mayonnaise 94,  95,  98 

Tartar 99 

Sauces,  Stock  for  Sauces 

and  Gravies 129 

Anchovy 129 

Apple 130 

A  Plain 132 

Bernaise 130 

Brown 130 

Caper 130 

Celery 131 

Cranberry 131 

Currant  J  ell 131 

Lobster 131 

Matred'Hotel 129 

Sauces  for  Puddings 163 

A  Plain  Pudding 164 

*Bath  Lemon 164 

Cream 164 

*Creamy 163 

Creamy  without 

Cream 165 

*Fairy  or  Nun's  Butter  164 

*Foaming 163 

"Lemon 165,  176 

Orange 177 

Strawberry 164 


328 


TJie  Queen  Cook  Book 


Sauerkraut 126 

Sciatic    and    Neuralgic 

Pains 270 

Sherbets,  Cocoanut 179 

Orange 179 

Lemon 180 

*Peach 178 

*Pineapple 179 

Silver  and  Metals,  Clean- 
ing of 300 

Smelts,  Fried 89 

Small  Pox,  Remedy  for...  263 

Soups 34  to  37 

*Croutons  for 37 

Browning  for 37 

Caramel,  to  Make 37 

Asparagus 39 

*Bean,   Plain 40 

Beef,  Stock  for 34-37 

Bouillon 41 

Cream  of  Celery 37 

*Chicken 45 

*Clam 44 

Consomme 41 

*Corn,  Sweet,  Green. .     39 

Dumpling 43 

*Haricot  (har-a-co). . .     39 

Jenny  Lind 44 

Julienne 42 

*Mutton 43 

*Ox  Tail 44 

*Oyster 45 

Pea,  Green 38 

*Tomato,  No.  i,  Queen 

of  Soups 38 

*Tomato,  No.  2,   with 

Stock 38 

*Turtle,  Perfect  Mock    46 

Vegetable 43 

Vermicelli  or  Noodle. .     42 

Stomach,  Acidity  of 258 

Stomach  Trouble 288 

Sty,  to  Cure 250 

Suggestions,  a  few 301-31 1 

Table  Linen,  to  Wash  Col- 
ored    286 

Tape  Worm,  to  Get  Rid  of.  290 
Tar  Cordial 291 


Tea 29,     30 

Tea    Kettle,   to     Clean   of 

Lime 246 

Thunder  Storm,  What  to 

do  in  a 251 

Toast,  German 236 

Tongue,  Boiled  and  Jellied    61 
Toothache  or  Neuralgia.. . 

249,  258 

Tomato  Sauce 232 

Turkey   and     Chicken,   to 

Dress 63 

To  Boil  or  Steam  a. . . .  66 
Dressing,  to  Make  for.  64 
Giblets,  to  Prepare. . .     66 

*To  Roast  a 65 

Cold  Roast 66 

Tomatoes,  Stewed 120 

To  Can 121 

Raw 121 

Turnips,  Boiled 120 

Typhoid  Fever 270 

Veal  Cutlets 60 

Croquettes 235 

*Loaf 234 

*Patties 235 

Roast  Leg  of 60 

Sweet  Breads,  Baked.   245 

Sweet  Breads,  Fried..   245 

Vegetables,  Cooking  of . . . .    108 

Vinegar,  Sugar 227 

*Waffles 22 

Walks,  Brick 282 

Warts  and  Corns 249 

V.^r.'^h  Lawns  or  any  Color 

that  Fades 285 

Washing  Fluids,  the  Best.  284 
Weights     and     Measures, 

Table  of 318,  319 

Whisky  and  Tobacco,  Only 

Cure  for 284 

Wine,  Grape — Pure,     for 

the  Sick 226 

Pure  Unfermented 248 

Whitewash,  Not  Rub  Off.    284 

*Yeast,  Bottled n 

Old  School 14 

Potato 15 


