Class  /  J  X^^ 


Copyright  }l^_ 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


C/aZ^!lL«A-      t-<>^^-o^--C-. 


QUEEN  ESTHER 
COOK  BOOK 


Q  Q  Q 


B 


Compiled  by 

THE  QUEEN  ESTHER  CIRCLE 

of  the 

FIRST  METHODIST  EPISCOPAL  CHURCH 

of 

EVANSTON,  ILLINOIS 


6 


%^ 


Copyright,  1911. 
by  mrs.  alfred  l.  lindsey. 


SCI.A305410 
wo.  I 


Foreword! 


The  good  ladies  who  compiled  this  book,  perhaps  doubt- 
ing my  literary  taste,  did  not  ask  me  to  write  it.  They  have 
honored  me  all  the  more,  however,  and  tacitly  credited  me 
with  another  kind  of  taste  by  asking  me  to  pen  this  fore- 
word. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  eat  a  great  deal  of  Methodist 
cooking  in  my  time.  Unhesitatingly,  I  give  it  a  high  mark. 
With  the  aid  of  this  volume,  it  becomes  possible  for  any 
family  to  enjoy  the  best  of  eating.  Dr.  Frost's  doughnut 
recipe  reads  amazingly  good.  Even  the  holes  in  those 
doughnuts  possess  nutritive  value.  Bishop  Quayle's  method 
of  woods-broiling  a  beefsteak  has  its  appeal  to  the  vege- 
tarian also. 

Eating  is  one  of  the  oldest  habits  of  the  human  race.  J 
believe  it  antedates  clothing.  Eating  may  bring  us  either 
happiness  or  unhappiness,  depending  not  so  much  upon 
what  we  eat  as  how  it  is  prepared.  Professor  Scott's  recipe 
for  preparing  apples,  however,  has  a  pre-adamic  tinge  to  it. 

A  good  cook  is  a  genius.  A  good  recipe  is  an  inspiration. 
The  knowledge  of  how  to  follow  a  recipe  is  pure  talent. 
The  willingness  to  give  one's  knowledge  of  good  cookery 
to  be  perpetuated  in  such  a  book  as  this  for  the  benefit  of 
humanity  is  one  of  the  highest  types  of  human  kindness. 

This  is  a  book  you  will  enjoy  reading,  in  the  hammock 
in  summer  or  before  the  fire  during  the  long  winter  even- 
ings. One  can  devour  the  contents  of  this  book,  without 
caring  much  whether  the  hero  finally  marries  the  heroine 
or  not.  This  book  is  a  library  in  itself.  In  it  are  potato 
poems,  raspberry  romances,  hot  bread  history,  and  a  world 
of  jams,  jellies,  cakes,  pies  and  other  joys  amid  which  to 
travel.  It  truly  is  that  splendid  type  of  book — one  we  may 
read,  mark  and  inwardly  digest. 

WILBUR  D.  NESBIT. 


Table  of  Contents 


Soups 

Fish  and  Oysters 

Meats  and  Poultry 

Vegetables 

Luncheon  Dishes 

Salads  and  Sandwiches 

Puddings  and  Sauces 

Frozen  Desserts 

Pastry 

Cakes  and  Icings 

Cookies  and  Small  Cakes 

Bread  and  Breakfast  Cakes 

Pickles  and  Preserves 

Favorites  of  Our  Favorites 

Queen  Esther  Sweets 

Beverages 

Miscellaneous 

Tables  of  Weights  and  Measures 


Your  Banking  Home 

By  extending  at  all  times 
careful  personal  attention 
to  the  affairs  of  each  cus- 
tomer, the  officers  and 
directors  of  this  institu- 
tion strive  to  make  it  a  gen- 
uine banking  home  for  all 
the  people     -:-    -:-     -:-    -:- 


Interest  Paid  on  Savings 

STATE  BANK  of  EVANSTON 

Fountain       Square 


CAPITAL    and    SURPLUS   $300,000.00 


Officers 

William  A.  Dyche,  President 

H.  J.  Wallingford,  Vice-President 

F.  J.  Scheidenhelm,  Cashier 

G.  H.  Tomlinson,  Assistant  Cashier 


"The  fate  of  Nations  depends  on  how  they  are  fed." 


Be  sure  to  patronise  our  advertis- 
ers, for  it  is  by  their  help  that  we 
have  been  able  to  place  this  l)ook  in 
your  hands  at  so  lozv  a  price. 

Queen  Esther  Circle. 


"When  two  do  the  same  thing,  it  is  not  the  same  thing 
after  all." 

Publius  Syrus. 


MEMORANDA 


Soups 


"You  cannot  choose  your  earthly  lot, 
Nor  right  all  seeming  zvrongs; 
The  ^  clam  likes  not 
The  chozvder  hot, 
But  that's  ivhere  he  belongs." 


10  SOUPS 

OYSTER  SOUP. 
One  quart  water,  }4  teacup  butter,  1  pint  milk,  2  tea- 
spoons salt,  4  crackers  rolled  fine  and  ^  teaspoon  pepper. 
Bring  all  to  boiling  point  quickly,  then  add  1  quart  oysters, 
let  the  whole  come  to  boiling  heat  as  soon  as  possible  and 
then  remove  from  fire. 

Mrs.  N.  M.  Jones. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

One  quart  oysters,  1  quart  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1 
tablespoon  flour.  Put  oysters  on  fire,  skim  carefully,  mix 
to  a  cream,  butter  and  flour,  add  to  the  oysters,  season  to 
taste,  and  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Pope. 

JELLIED  CONSOMMfi. 

One  can  consomme  (Campbells),  J^  box  Knox's  acidu- 
lated gelatine,  juice  of  ^  lemon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
I3/2  cans  water.  Mix  thoroughly.  Dissolve  gelatine,  add- 
ing it  lastly  to  other  ingredients.  Let  mixture  chill  4  or 
5  hours.  Serve  in  cups  with  bread  sticks.  Will  serve  8 
persons. 

Katherine  Howard  Ward. 

SCOTCH  BROTH. 

To  lJ/2  lbs.  of  mutton  of  the  shoulder  add  5  quarts  cold 
water.  Boil,  then  add  1  cup  each  of  barley  and  green  dried 
peas.  Chop  very  fine  ^  head  of  cabbage.  Grate  2  medium 
sized  carrots,  2  small  turnips.  Add  these,  and  1  small  onion 
and  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Simmer  slowly  for  four  hours,  skimming  often. 

Christina  Mackay. 

CREAM  OE  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  tomatoes.  Cook  the  pulp 
with  a  bit  of  onion  until  thoroughly  soft,  then  press  it 
through  a  sieve.  Cook  again  until  as  thick  as  catsup.  Heat 
1  quart  of  milk  and  add  to  it  1  even  teaspoon  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  a  generous  lump  of  but- 


SOUPS  11 

ter.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Before  combining,  stir  >4 
teaspoon  baking  soda  into  the  hot  tomatoes.  After  the 
foaming  has  ceased  add  the  milk  and  let  all  just  come  to 
a  boil.  Serve  immediately.  One  may  prepare  the  tomatoes 
the  day  before  or  in  the  morning  so  that  the  finishing  will 
take  only  the  few  moments  needed  to  prepare  the  milk. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  Phipps. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Two  lbs.  of  the  neck  of  beef,  3  quarts  water,  1  pint 
stewed  tomatoes,  1  pint  macaroni  in  two  inch  pieces,  1 
onion,  2  cloves,  sprig  of  parsley,  ^  cup  cornstarch,  3  tea- 
spoons salt  and  Yz  teaspoon  pepper.  Cut  the  meat  into 
small  pieces.  Put  into  the  soup-pot  with  the  cold  water  and 
heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  then  skim  carefully  and 
simmer  2  hours,  then  add  onion,  parsley  and  cloves,  and 
cook  an  hour  longer.  Skim  off  all  fat  and  mix  the  corn- 
starch with  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  stir  into  soup.  Now 
add  tomato,  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  gently  for  half  an 
hour  longer.  Cook  the  miacaroni  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water 
20  minutes,  boiling  rapidly ;  then  turn  it  into  a  colander  and 
pour  a  quart  of  cold  water  over  it  stirring  all  the  time. 
Strain  the  soup  and  return  to  the  kettle,  then  add  the  mac- 
aroni and  cook  for  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Kaile. 

FISH  CHOWDER. 

Cut  2  lbs.  of  cod  or  haddock  in  pieces  and  have  ready  3 
large  potatoes  peeled  and  sliced  thick,  2  onions  sliced.  Fry 
brown  in  soup  kettle  3  slices  salt  pork.  Remove  pork  and 
put  in  layer  of  fish,  potatoes  and  onions,  salt,  pepper  and 
parsley.  Continue  until  all  ingredients  are  used,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  When  nearly  done 
add  2  cups  milk,  4  hard  crackers  split  and  dipped  in  cold 
water.     Then  boil  5  minutes. 

Miss  Raddin. 

CORN  CHOWDER. 
Dice  two  ounces  of  salt  pork  and  fry  in  a  deep  stew  pan 


12  SOUPS 

until  crisp.  Then  add  four  potatoes  and  two  onions,  also 
diced,  and  cover  with  water.  When  potatoes  are  done,  add 
one  quart  of  milk  and  one  can  of  corn.  Boil  up  once,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Horace  M.  Ford. 

CHICKEN  GUMBO. 

Cut  up  chicken  as  for  frying,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in 
bacon  fat.  Chop  1  large  onion  fine  and  fry.  Add  4  cups 
sliced  okra,  or  one  can  okra,  a  sprig  parsley,  piece  of  red 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Then  add  to  this  1^  cups  toma- 
toes, 3  cups  boiling  water.  Cook  all  together  until  chicken 
is  very  tender.  More  hot  water  can  be  added  as  it  cooks  if 
one  likes  the  soup  not  so  thick.  Serve  with  spoon  of 
boiled  rice  in  each  dish.  Veal,  cut  in  pieces,  is  an  excellent 
substsitute  for  the  chicken ;  or  oysters  may  be  used  in  place 
of  the  chicken. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  Phipps. 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Cook  2  bunches  of  asparagus  until  tender.  Remove  the 
heads  and  set  aside.  Rub  the  stalks  through  a  sieve  and 
add  the  pulp  to  a  pint  of  chicken  stock.  Heat  a  pint  of  thin 
cream  in  a  double  boiler.  Cook  together  one  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  two  of  flour,  add  asparagus  pulp.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  the  asparagus 
tips  and  the  hot  cream. 

Mrs.  Alfred  L.  Lindsey. 

MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

Pick,  peel  and  wash  1  pound  of  mushrooms ;  cut  them 
in  pieces  with  a  silver  knife ;  put  them  in  a  porcelain  sauce 
pan ;  add  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoon  boiling 
water,  ^  tablespoon  salt,  stir  the  mushrooms  with  a  silver 
fork  and  cook  for  5  minutes.  Let  them  cool,  then  drain, 
skim  out,  and  put  through  a  meat  chopper,  add  them  to  the 
liquor.  Put  1  quart  milk  into  a  double  boiler ;  rub  together 
1  tablespoon  butter  and  2  tablespoons  flour.  Stir  into  the 
milk,  cook  until  creamy,  add  the  mushrooms,  season  with 


SOUPS  13 

salt  and  pepper.     If  made  with  the  white  mushroom,  add 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

J.  C.  L. 

SCOTCH  POTATO  SOUP. 

To  V/i  lbs.  of  mutton  of  the  shoulder  add  5  quarts  cold 
water,  boil,  then  add  6  medium  sized  potatoes.  Grate  and 
add  2  carrots,  also,  2  small  turnips.  Chop  fine  %.  head  of 
cabbage,  1  onion  and  a  little  parsley.  Simmer  slowly  for 
four  hours,  skimming  often. 

Christina  Mackay. 

BAKED  BEAN  SOUP. 

Cook  together  for  20  minutes  2  cups  cold  baked  beans, 
2  cups  of  hot  water,  2  slices  of  onion,  2  stalks  of  celery,  1^ 
cups  of  tomatoes.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  thicken  with  2  tablespoons  each  of  butter 
and  flour  cooked  together. 

Boston  Cooking  School. 

PUREfi  OF  BEANS. 

Boil  2  cups  Navy  beans  until  the  skins  come  ofif.  While 
boiling  add  3^  onion.  Put  all  through  a  sieve  and  to  every 
tablespoon  of  paste  add  1  cup  soup  stock  thickened  with 
flour  and  butter  rubbed  together.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, 1  clove  and  celery  leaves.  One  may  vary  this  soup  by 
substituting  peas  or  potatoes  for  the  beans. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  Champlin. 

CREAM  OF  CLAM  SOUP. 

Drain  liquor  from  1  small  can  minced  clams  and  add  it 
to  \y2  pints  milk.  Scald  in  double  boiler  and  bind  with  2 
tablespoons  butter  and  1  tablespoon  flour.  Cook  for  5  min- 
utes. Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  minced  clams  and 
serve  at  once  with  a  little  whipped  cream  on  each  portion. 

Mrs.  Claude  B.  Cumnock. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 

Cook  3  cups  chopped  celery  in  2  cups  boiling  water  15 


14  SOUPS 

minutes.  Add  2  cups  chicken  or  veal  stock,  boil  15  min- 
utes more  and  rub  through  sieve.  Scald  1  slice  of  onion 
in  2  cups  milk  and  remove  onion.  Add  milk  to  stock.  Bind 
with  2  tablespoons  butter  and  3  tablespoons  flour,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  A  cup  of  cream  may  be  added  or  a  spoon- 
ful of  whipped  cream  put  in  each  cup. 

Mrs.  William  V.  Brothers. 

CREAM  OF  SPINACH  SOUP. 

Two  cups  boiling  water,  2  quarts  spinach,  54  teaspoon 
soda.  Cook  thirty  minutes  and  rub  through  sieve.  Add 
2  cups  stock,  heat  and  bind  with  Yx  cup  butter  and  5^  cup 
flour.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Last,  add  2  cups  milk, 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  serve  at  once. 

K.  R.  G. 
CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP. 

Run  a  can  of  corn  through  a  sieve  or  flour  sifter.  Heat 
and  slightly  thicken  with  2  tablespoons  of  flour  rubbed  up 
with  an  equal  amount  of  butter.  Add  thickened  corn  to  a 
quart  of  boiling  milk  and  heat  together  in  double  boiler 
for  20  minutes  to  half  an  hour.  Canned  peas  may  be 
treated  in  the  same  wa}'.  This  makes  a  very  wholesome 
dish  for  children. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Boot. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 

Rub  into  two  eggs  as  much  sifted  flour  as  they  will  ab- 
sorb, then  roll  out  as  thin  as  a  wafer ;  dust  over  a  little  flour 
and  then  roll  over  and  over  into  a  roll.  Cut  off  thin  slices 
from  the  edge  of  the  roll,  and  shake  into  long  strips.  Put 
them  into  the  soup  lightly  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  About 
a  salt  spoon  of  salt  should  be  added  while  mixing  with  the 

flour. 

Mrs.  George  M.  Sargent. 


SOUPS 15 

VEDVET  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  any  kind  of  good  stock,  1  cup  of  cream,  sea- 
son to  taste,  pour  boiling  hot  on  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
with  Yz  cup  of  cream.  Reheat  and  serve  as  soon  as  it 
reaches  a  boiling  point.  Serve  in  cups  like  bouillon.  Very 
nice  indeed. 

Mrs.  C.  S.  Coburn. 


^a^^^esa^^^^S!*? 


When  You  Buy  Oysters 
In  Cans  Like  These 

You   are    sure    of    getting    the    Cleanest, 
Freshest,  Purest  Oysters  in  all  the  World. 

Because — 

They  are  grown  on  the  Best  Government 
Inspected  Beds. 

Because — 

The  Hermetical  Seal  on  every  Can 
KEEPS  IN  the  Good  Oyster  Flavor  and 
KEEPS  OUT  all  Dust,  Dirt  and  Impuri- 
ties.    Our  Signed  Guarantee  is  on  every 
can. 

Booth's  Guaranteed  Oysters 

In  Sterilized  Hermetically  Sealed  Cans 
''They're  Sealed  by  Us  to  be  opened  by  You" 

Send  us  your  Dealer's  name  and  we  will  mail  you  our  Recipe 
Book  "Oysters  in  a  Hundred  Ways" — FREE. 

Booth    Fisheries    Company 

General  Offices 
2222  Majestic  Bldg.  CHICAGO 


Fish  and  Oldsters 


'From  the  rude  sea's  enraged  and 
foaming  mouth." 

—Twelfth  Night. 


18  FISH  AND  OYSTERS 

BAKED   FISH   WITHOUT   DRESSING. 

Rub  the  clean  fish  with  plenty  of  salt  and  let  it  lie  for  an 
hour;  then  wipe  off  the  salt  and  rub  well  with  lemon  juice, 
leaving  it  another  half  hour  where  it  will  keep  very  cold. 
Now  split  down  the  back  enough  so  that  it  can  be  opened 
and  spread  out  fiat ;  dredge  with  flour  and  put  in  a  shallow 
tin  in  the  oven,  pouring  over  it  about  3  tablespoons  of  fresh 
milk  and  dotting  with  bits  of  butter,  or  thin  slices  of  fat 
salt  pork.  Bake  from  20  minutes  to  one  half  hour.  Serve 
in  a  hot  platter  with  a  few  spoons  of  hot  cream  and  a  little 
butter  poured  over  it,  or  use  a  Hollandaise  sauce  poured 
around  it.  This  manner  is  equally  good  for  halibut  or 
fresh  cod  steaks. 

Tuesday  Ten  Cook  Book. 

JELLIED  FISH. 

One  large  or  2  small  white  fish  (about  4  lbs),  ^  pack- 
age Nelson's  gelatine,  bay  leaves  and  whole  white  peppers. 
Boil  the  fish  in  well  salted  water  until  thoroughly  done. 
Remove  skin  and  bones,  carefully  preserving  the  shape  of 
the  fish ;  place  on  the  fish  platter  with  head  and  tail  in 
place,  and  sprinkle  with  some  whole  peppers  and  bay 
leaves.  Soak  the  gelatine  one  hour,  pour  over  it  1  quart  of 
the  hot  fish  stock,  pour  this  over  the  fish  and  set  on  the 
ice.  When  ready  to  serve  loosen  the  edges  of  the  gelatine 
and  place  under  and  around  the  fish,  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
and  pour  over  the  whole  a  sauce  Tartare. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Tallmadge. 

CREAM  FISH. 

Pick  into  bits  1  cup  fish,  add  to  it  2  cups  cream  or  2  cups 
milk,  with  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and 
add  1  egg  and  Yz  teaspoon  cornstarch  rubbed  smoothly  to- 
gether with  a  little  cold  milk.  Serve  on  toast.  Good  break- 
fast dish. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Pope. 

FISH  A  LA  CR£ME. 
Put  1  cup  milk  on  to  boil  in  a  double  boiler.    Scald  with 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS  19 

it  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  Yi  slice  onion. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Rub  together  2  tablespoons  each 
of  flour  and  butter.  Into  this  stir  slowly  the  boiling  milk 
to  make  a  white  sauce.  Have  ready  \Y\  cups  flaked  cold 
fish  and  Yz  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs.  In  a  baking  dish 
place  alternate  layers  of  fish,  crumbs  and  sauce  and  put  in 
the  oven  until  a  nice  brown.  This  may  also  be  baked  in 
ramekins  or  shells. 

Mrs.  C.   N.   Stevens. 

FRENCH  CODFISH. 

Cream  half  a  package  of  prepared  cod  fish  and  put  in 
small  buttered  dishes,  filling  each  half  full.  Beat  the  white 
of  an  ^gg  stiff  and  gradually  add  a  cup  of  mashed  potatoes, 
beating  all  till  light.  Drop  spoonful  on  top  of  fish  and  keep 
in  hot  oven  until  it  puffs  and  browns. 

Mrs.  Margaretta  S.  N.  Helm. 

COD  FISH  CAKES. 

Wash  1  cup  raw  salt  codfish,  picked  up  in  half  inch 
pieces  and  freed  from  bones.  Pare  1  pint  potatoes  and  cut 
into  quarters.  Put  potatoes  and  fish  together  in  a  stew- 
pan  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil  25  minutes  or  un- 
til the  potatoes  are  soft.  Drain  off  the  water,  mash  and 
beat  the  fish  and  potatoes  until  very  light.  Add  1  teaspoon 
butter  and  Y\  saltspoon  pepper  and  when  slightly  cooled 
add  1  ^gg  well  beaten.  Shape  in  a  tablespoon  without 
smoothing  very  much,  slip  off  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  lard 
for  1  minute.  Fry  only  five  at  a  time  as  more  will  cool 
the  fat.  The  lard  should  be  hot  enough  to  brown  a  bit  of 
bread  while  you  count  40.    Drain  on  soft  paper. 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Kean. 
CODFISH  BALLS. 

One  bowl  of  potatoes,  pared  and  sliced,  Y2-  bowl  picked 
codfish.  Boil  the  potatoes.  When  ready  to  mash  put  in  the 
minced  fish.    Add  butter  the  size  of  a  small  ^gg,  1  teaspoon 


20  FISH  AND  OYSTERS 

cream,  1  egg,  and  mash  all  together  thoroughly.    Make  into 
balls  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  N.  M.  Jones. 

SALMON  LOAF. 

One  can  salmon,  ^  cup  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  4  ta- 
blespoons melted  butter,  2  tablespoons  milk,  2  eggs,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Put  all  together,  beat  well  and  steam  one 
hour.  If  steamed  in  baking  powder  or  similar  cans,  it 
can  be  sliced  and  very  prettily  served.  Sauce :  Boil  1  cup 
milk,  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  cornstarch  and  add  it  to  the 
liquor  from  the  salmon  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg  and 
1  tablespoon  catsup.  Put  the  egg  in  last  and  very  care- 
fully. Boil  one  minute,  and  then  pour  over  salmon  which 
has  been  turned  out  of  the  mold. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Leigh. 
SALMON  LOAF. 

One  pound  can  salmon,  drain  off  oil.  Mince  salmon, 
add  3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  ^  cup  fine  bread  or  crack- 
er crumbs,  pepper  and  salt  and  minced  parsley  to  taste,  one 
whole  egg  and  yolks  of  two  more  well  beaten.  Mix  and 
put  in  buttered  mould ;  set  this  in  a  pan  of  water  in  the 
oven.  Bake  about  45  minutes.  When  done,  set  in  cold 
water  for  a  minute,  then  turn  out  on  platter  and  serve  hot 
with  following  sauce.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  1  cup  milk, 
1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  2  tablespoons  butter.  When  boil- 
ing hot,  turn  over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  and 
fold  together.    Season  with  a  dash  of  cayenne. 

Clara  D.  Manley. 

SALMON  BALLS. 

Moisten  1  cup  cold  flaked  salmon  with  sauce  made  of 
y2  cup  milk  and  2  tablespoons  flour.  Season  with  salt, 
lemon  juice  and  cayenne  pepper.  Cool  and  shape,  having 
creamed  peas  in  the  center  of  each.  Dip  in  crumbs,  egg 
and  crumbs  again  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Heat  ^  cup  peas 
with   2y2    tablespoons   butter,    add    ^2    teaspoon    sugar,    1 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS  21 

teaspoon  flour  and  Xyz  tablespoons  cream,  add  to  a  Hol- 
landaise  sauce  and  pour  around  balls.  This  is  equally  good 
if  haddock  or  halibut  is  used  in  place  of  salmon. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Lindsey. 

JELLIED  SALMON. 

One  can  of  salmon,  minced,  1  tablespoon  of  powdered 
gelatine  dissolved  in  ^  cup  of  cold  water,  juice  of  ^  a 
lemon,  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  all  together  with  salad 
dressing  and  turn  into  a  mold.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
and  garnish  with  olives. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  E.  Dorion. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

Drain  a  can  of  salmon  and  pick  it  over  well.  Make  yi  cup 
of  white  sauce  and  heat  with  the  salmon,  stirring  and  beat- 
ing until  the  fish  is  smooth.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  spread  in  a  mass  two  inches  thick  on  a  platter  and  set 
aside  for  two  hours.  Then  cut  in  pieces  and  mould  in 
small  pyramids.  Dip  each  in  sifted  bread  crumbs,  then  in 
slightly  beaten  o^^g  yolks,  and  again  in  the  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat  in  wire  basket.     Drain  in  oven  on  brown  paper. 

Margaretta  S.  N.  Helm. 

SHRIMPS  AND  TOMATOES. 

Cook  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  until  thick,  adding  a  slice 
of  onion  chopped  fine.  Put  this  through  a  sieve  and  thick- 
en with  a  level  tablespoon  of  flour,  rubbed  smooth  with 
two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Wash  and  dry  a  can  of  shrimps 
and  heat  in  the  tomato  sauce.  Season  with  salt  and  cay- 
enne pepper  and  serve  on  mound  of  boiled  rice. 

Margaretta  S.  N.  Helm. 

LOBSTER  CHOPS. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter  heated  in  small  sauce  pan. 
Add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  and 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.     Cook  ten  minutes.     Add  to  this 


22  FISH  AND  OYSTERS 

sauce,  2  cups  of  chopped  lobster,  1  tablespoon  chopped  par- 
sley, Yi  nutmeg,  salt  and  paprika  to  taste.  When  mixture 
is  cool,  shape  into  chops  with  small  claws  in  place  of  chop 
bone.  Dip  carefully  in  slightly  beaten  wdiites  of  two  eggs, 
then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Gascoigne. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

For  one  quart  of  oysters.  Dressing:  One  pint  of  milk, 
2  heaping  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  Yz  saltspoon  pepper,  ^  teaspoon  celery  salt,  1 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  none  of  the  oyster  liquor.  Place 
the  oysters  in  a  skillet  and  when  thoroughly  heated,  turn 
into  the  dressing.     Serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Patten. 

CELERY  OYSTERS. 

Cook  1  pint  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  until  they  are 
plump.  Drain  and  then  strain  the  oyster  liquor  and  add 
to  it  enough  cream  to  make  1^  cups.  Melt  in  a  chafing 
dish  6  tablespoons  butter  and  5  tablespoons  flour  and  stir 
to  a  paste.  Pour  in  the  liquor  gradually  and  beat  until 
creamy.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  celery  salt.  Add  the 
parboiled  oysters  and  cook  until  just  at  the  boiling  point. 
Pour  this  over  slices  of  buttered  toast  and  sprinkle  with 
finely  chopped  celery. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Traxler. 

FLOUNDER,  RED  SNAPPER  OR  RED  FISH. 

In  a  dripping  pan  large  enough  to  hold  the  fish,  put  a 
layer  of  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Salt  and  pepper  and  add  a 
bit  of  onion.  On  this  lay  the  fish  whole ;  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  spread  with  lard  or  but- 
ter.    Bake  3^  hours. 

Sauce :  With  the  drippings  in  the  pan  make  a  sauce  by 
adding  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour.  Stir  till  smooth.  Add 
1  tablespoon  mustard  and  seasoning,  and  enough  water  to 
make  of  the  desired  consistency. 

Ilda  C.  Wilson. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS  23 

BAKED  HALIBUT. 

Wash,  dry  and  salt  2  lbs.  halibut  steak.  Bake  35  minutes, 
basting  often  with  the  following  sauce :  Tomato  sauce,  3 
tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour,  J/^  can  tomatoes.  1  cup 
water,  1  onion  minced  fine,  1  sweet  green  pepper  cut  into 
thin  strips,  1  doz.  almonds  chopped  fine,  ^  tablespoon  sugar, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  fish  with  the  tomato  sauce 
poured  around  it.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  Walter  Dill  Scott. 

BROILED  HALIBUT. 

Have  halibut  steak  cut  1  inch  thick.  Put  on  well  greased 
broiler  and  place  far  enough  below  fire  so  that  when 
browned  it  will  be  well  done.  Place  on  hot  platter  (or 
plank),  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Garnish  with 
browned  mashed  potatoes  and  slices  of  lemon. 

Mrs.  R.  D.  W.  Johnson. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS. 

Allow  6  oysters  to  each  person.  Wrap  each  oyster  in  a 
half  slice  of  bacon  and  secure  with  a  toothpick.  Put  in  a 
pan  and  place  on  broiler.  Cook  until  oysters  swell  and 
bacon  is  well  browned  on  both  sides.  Remove  toothpick, 
place  oysters  on  triangles  of  hot  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  James  T.  Hatfield. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Roll  bread  or  crackers  fine  and  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
well  buttered  pan ;  then  add  a  layer  of  oysters,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter,  then  another  layer  of 
crumbs  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  finishing  with  crumbs 
and  bits  of  butter.  Pour  over  it  the  oyster  liquor  and 
enough  milk  to  moisten.     Bake  Yz  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  McKenzie. 


MEMORANDA 


Meats  and  Poultry 


"Some  hae  meat  and  canna  eat, 
And  some  wad  eat  that  want  it, 
But  zve  hae  meat  and  zve  can  eat, 
Sae  let  the  Lord  he  thankit." 

— Burns. 

"Stuffed  zvith  all  honorable  virtues. 
— Much  Ado  About  Nothing. 


26  MEATS  AND  POULTRY 

FILLET  OF  BEEF. 

Have  the  fillet  larded,  and  when  prepared  place  a  sliced 
onion,  a  little  parsley,  bits  of  bay  leaf  in  the  pan  and  put 
the  fillet  on  it.  Spread  thickly  with  butter,  add  1  teaspoon 
salt  to  y^  cup  of  boiling  water  and  pour  into  the  pan.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  30  minutes,  basting  three  or  four  times.  Take 
out  the  fillet  and  add  to  the  pan  1  tablespoon  butter ;  brown, 
then  add  1  tablespoon  flour  and  1  pint  of  stock.  Strain 
after  all  has  boiled  and  add  1  can  mushrooms  and  1  tea- 
spoon catsup. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Lindsey. 

CHICKEN  EN  CASSEROLE. 
Heat  3  tablespoons  butter  in  skillet,  and  in  it  fry  an 
onion  sliced  until  a  light  brown.  Roll  pieces  of  chicken  in 
flour  and  fry  in  skillet  until  a  rich  brown.  Heat  Casserole 
in  oven  and  place  in  it  1  diced  carrot,  1  cup  diced  celery  and 
a  minced  pimento.  Place  chicken  on  vegetable,  pour  over 
it  1^  cups  thin  stock  or  hot  water,  add  1  tablespoon  salt. 
Cover  dish  tightly  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  2  hours. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Phillips. 
From   Good   Housekeeping. 

SMOTHERED  BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  a  piece  of  the  upper  cut  of  round  steak  2^/2  inches 
thick.  With  the  edge  of  a  saucer  pound  into  the  meat  ^ 
cup  of  salted  flour,  pounding  first  on  one  side  and  then 
the  other.  Melt  suet  or  lard  in  a  heavy  iron  skillet  and 
when  very  hot  sear  the  meat  well  on  both  sides.  Pour  on 
boiling  water  until  the  meat  is  nearly  covered.  Draw  to 
the  back  of  range  to  simmer  slowly  for  2j/2  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  A.   Scott. 


DRIED  BEEF  CREAMED. 

Shred    carefully    fine    >4    lb.   of   dried   beef.      Heat   and 
brown  slightly  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  turn  into  a  col- 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY  27 

antler  and  let  the  cold  water  faucet  wash  out  the  butter 
and  salt.  Take  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of 
flour  and  cream  together.  Heat  3  cups  of  milk  and  add 
to  the  mixture,  stirring  over  the  fire  till  smooth,  then  add 
the  beef  to  the  cream  and  serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Eddv. 


BEEF  LOAF. 

One  lb.  Hamburg  steak,  34  ^b.  salt  pork,  1  cup  bread 
crumbs,  1  egg  well  beaten,  season  to  taste,  milk  enough  to 
make  very  moist,  at  least  1  cup.  Mold  into  loaf,  pour  boil- 
ing water  over  it  and  set  in  hot  oven  to  roast.  Frequently 
the  drippings  are  sufficient  to  use  with  milk  and  flour  for 
gravy. 

Mrs.  G.  H.  Tomlinson. 


BEEF  LOAF. 

Two  pounds  of  chopped  or  ground  steak  from  the  round. 
Have  ground  with  it  j4  pound  of  fat,  salt  pork.  Mix  with 
this  1  teacup  of  fresh  bread  crumbs,  IjA  cups  of  milk,  1 
egg  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Salt  well  and 
season  with  onion  and  sage  to  suit  the  taste.  Bake  one 
hour  in  a  bread  pan,  setting  it  in  a  pan  of  water.  This 
amount  serves  eight  persons. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Fanning. 


BEEF  GOULASH. 

Cut  2  lbs.  round  steak  into  dice.  Slice  1^  lbs.  salt  pork 
thin,  and  fry  until  crisp,  then  roll  steak  in  flour  and  fry  in 
salt  pork  fat.  Put  steak  into  kettle,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  1  bay  leaf,  l^^  green  peppers  cut  thin.  Boil  slow- 
ly 2^  hours.  About  one  hour  before  dinner  add  onions, 
carrots,  y^  can  tomatoes  and  if  necessary  a  little  thickening. 

Helen  Hale. 


28  MEATS  AND  POULTRY 

VEAL  BIRDS. 

Cut  1  lb.  thin  veal  steak  into  strips  2  inches  wide  and 
pound  a  little.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  form 
into  little  rolls.  Then  fasten  a  slice  of  bacon  around  each 
roll  with  a  skewer,  or  toothpicks  will  do.  Brown  on  all 
sides  in  the  spider ;  then  cover  the  meat  with  water  and  let 
it  simmer  for  1^  hours.  Mix  1  tablespoon  flour  in  part  of 
a  cup  of  water  and  add  it  to  the  liquor  to  make  a  gravy.  In 
this  gravy  let  the  meat  cook  for  about  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  L.  J.  Aikin. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Mix  well  together  3^  lbs.  chopped  veal,  j4  lb.  chopped 
salt  pork,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  V2  teaspoon  pepper  (sage 
if  desired)  ^4  cup  fresh  milk,  1  cup  cracker  crumbs.  Pack 
closely  in  pan.  Bake  3  hours  in  covered  pan  placed  inside 
another  containing  water. 

Mrs.  N.  M.  Jones. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

Boil  2y2  pounds  lean  veal  until  it  drops  from  the  bones. 
When  cool,  chop  fine.  Put  }i  pounds  butter  in  a  sauce  pan 
with  8  even  tablespoons  of  flour.  When  melted  add  three 
cups  milk,  a  small  onion  chopped  fine  and  2  tablespoons 
chopped  parsley.  Cook  until  thick.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  add  3  eggs,  salt,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  the  veal.  Make 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in 
deep  lard.    Large  recipe. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Ridgway. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

To  every  pint  of  cold  cooked  chopped  veal,  allow  ^  pint 
milk.  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  white  pep- 
per, 1  teaspoon  onion  extract  or  juice.  Make  the  white 
sauce  and  add  to  the  veal,  then  make  up  into  croquettes, 
dip  in  eggs  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  C.  N.  Stevens. 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 29 

ROMAN  MEAT  PUDDING. 

This  rule  calls  for  cold  veal,  chicken,  lamb  or  beef.  To 
1  pt.  of  meat  finely  minced,  add  1  cup  of  good  stock,  well- 
seasoned,  1  egg,  some  lemon  juice  or  tomato  sauce,  a  few 
bread  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley.  Line  a  mould  with  mac- 
aroni previously  boiled  until  tender.  Fill  with  the  meat  mix- 
ture and  steam  for  Yz  hour.  Turn  out  on  chop  dish  and 
serve  surrounded  with  white  sauce.  This  is  very  nice  when 
made  with  chicken  and  served  with  mushroom  sauce, 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Traxler. 

EVANSTON  CHOP   SUEY. 

Cut  1^  lbs.  round  steak  in  finger  lengths,  add  2  onions 
and  stew  very  slowly  2  hours.  Then  add  a  bunch  of  celery 
cut  in  dice,  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  20  minutes,  thicken  the 
gravy  and  serve  in  a  ring  of  plain  rice. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  Holgate. 

MEAT  SOUFFLfi. 

Make  1  cup  cream  sauce,  season  with  chopped  parsley 
and  onion  juice.  Stir  1  cup  of  chopped  meat  (chicken, 
fresh  tongue,  veal  or  lamb)  into  the  sauce.  When  hot,  add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  cook  one  minute  and  set 
away  to  cool.  When  cool  stir  in  the  whites,  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  about  twenty  minutes,  and  serve 
immediately.     Fine  with  mushroom  sauce. 

Mrs.   Edgar  Blake. 
(From  Mary  J.  Lincoln's  Cook  Book.) 

BOUDINS. 

Chop  cold  cooked  poultry  very  fine,  and  add  to  each  pint 
of  the  chopped  meat  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne and  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley.  Put  in  a  sauce- 
pan 1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  gill  of  stock  or  milk  and  2 
tablespoons  of  stale  bread  crumbs;  stir  until  boiling;  add 
the  meat,  take  from  the  fire  and  add  2  well  beaten  eggs. 
Fill  into  small  greased  moulds,  or  custard  cups,  stand  in 


30  MEATS  AND  POULTRY 

hot  water  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  firm.  Turn  out  on  a 
platter  and  pour  about  the  patties  a  cream  sauce  made  from 
rich  milk  thickened  to  the  consistency  of  cream.  Alternate 
with  the  patties,  mounds  of  well  seasoned  peas.  Fish  flaked 
with  a  fork  may  be  substituted  for  the  poultry. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  Eiselen. 

CREAMED  MEAT. 

Melt  in  skillet  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Work  in  1  table- 
spoon flour,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  onion,  and  celery  or 
parsley,  or  both.  Gradually  add  milk  and  stir  over  the 
fire  into  a  drawn  butter  sauce.  Have  cooked  meat  of  any 
kind,  but  chicken,  veal  or  pork  tenderloin  are  best.  Boiled 
meat  is  better  than  meat  cooked  in  another  way.  Cut  in 
small  pieces  and  add  to  the  white  sauce.  It  is  improved  by 
adding  canned  peas  and  mushrooms. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Pope. 

HAM  CROQUETTES. 

One  cup  finely  chopped  cooked  ham,  1  cup  bread  crumbs, 
2  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1  large  tablespoon  butter,  3 
eggs,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  ham,  butter,  pepper 
and  2  of  the  eggs  into  the  potato.  Let  mixture  cool  slight- 
ly then  shape  into  croquettes.  Roll  in  bread  crumbs,  dip  in 
egg,  again  in  bread  crumbs  and  cook  2  minutes  in  deep  hot 
lard. 

Mrs.  C.  N.  Stevens. 

POTTED  MEAT. 

One  three  or  four  pound  chicken,  two  meaty  veal  shanks, 
one  lb.  pork,  one  lb.  calf's  liver.  Boil  the  meat  till 
it  loosens  from  the  bone,  lift  it  from  broth  or  liquor,  of 
which  there  should  be  about  three  pints,  and  put  where 
it  will  become  very  cold.  Strain  the  broth  and  when  it 
jellies,  skim  ofif  all  fat.  Cut  the  boned  meat  across  the 
grain,  into  small  pieces  and  shave  the  liver  fine.  Heat  the 
broth  and  put  into  it  all  the  meat.  Add  two  tablespoons  salt, 
one  of  pepper  and  one  teaspoon  paprika,  or — what  is  bet- 
ter advice — season  to  your  taste.     Stir  well,  let  it  simmer 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY  31 

for  a  few  minutes  and  pour  into  a  large  enameled  pan.  It 
should  slice  down  firm  and  smooth.  Several  hard  boiled 
eggs  dropped  here  and  there  through  the  pan,  give  a  fancy 
and  appetizing  appearance  to  the  slices.  The  meat  may  be 
divided,  and  a  finely  minced  onion,  with  vinegar  to  taste,  be 
put  into  one  portion. 

Mrs.  Bentley  Masslich. 

FRIED  RABBIT. 

Select  young  rabbits,  cut  in  pieces,  rejecting  ribs  on 
which  there  is  very  little  meat.  Boil  in  water  to  which  is 
added  a  large  onion  and  salt.  The  onion  removes  a  charac- 
teristic rank  taste,  and  that,  with  the  broth,  should  be 
thrown  out.  When  the  meat  is  tender  fry  in  butter  or  lard, 
and  make  a  flour  gravy  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed 
into  the  butter,  hot  water  added,  and  stirred  over  the  fire 
until  it  is  a  thickened  gravy. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Pope. 

CHICKEN  MARYLAND  STYLE. 

Cut  chicken  as  if  to  broil  and  wipe  dry.  Flour  each  piece 
and  dust  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  a  pan  with  a 
small  slice  of  bacon  on  each  piece  of  chicken.  Pour  half  a 
cup  of  melted  butter  into  the  pan.  Put  into  oven  and  cook 
slowly  for  1  hour,  basting  frequently.  When  thoroughly 
done,  place  on  hot  platter,  bacon  with  chicken.  Into  the 
drippings,  put  1^  cups  milk — thicken  with  flour,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Lukey. 

CHICKEN  BAKED  IN  MILK. 

Quarter  your  chickens  and  put  into  casserole,  cover  with 
a  mixture  of  half  milk  and  cream.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste  and  bake.  By  the  time  the  milk  is  cooked  down  to 
within  one  inch  of  the  bottom  the  chicken  will  be  ready  to 
serve. 

Mrs.  Marion  Green. 


32  MEATS  AND  POULTRY 

SHAKER  FRICASSEED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  as  for  an  ordinary  fricassee,  put  in  a 
kettle  with  a  perforated  stand  at  the  bottom  to  prevent 
burning,  use  water  enough  to  steam,  and  cook  1  hour ;  then 
add  salt.  When  the  meat  is  tender,  put  it  in  the  oven  and 
brown  thoroughly;  then  add  rich  cream  to  the  gravy,  thick- 
ening it  with  a  little  flour  and  butter  and  seasoning  to  taste. 
Serve  in  deep  dishes. 

J.  B.  G. 

CREAM  CHICKEN. 

Time  1^  hours.  Two  medium  siz^d  chickens  cut  up 
as  for  fricassee,  2  quarts  of  milk  made  into  a  thin  cream 
sauce.  Pour  1  qt.  over  the  chickens  in  a  covered  pan  and 
bake  1  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Remove  from  oven,  add  2 
quarts  of  cream  sauce,  return  to  the  oven  uncovered  and 
bake  till  a  rich  brown,  about  3^  hour.  It  is  even  better 
to  bake  this  for  1  hour  in  the  morning  and  set  it  away  cov- 
ered to  stand  till  wanted ;  then  add  the  second  cream  sauce 
and  bake  for  the  other  3^  hour. 

Marion  T.  Day. 

SPRING  CHICKEN. 

Split  the  chickens  down  the  back  as  for  broiling,  lay  them 
breast  down  in  a  baking  pan,  filling  the  depression  inside 
the  ribs  with  equal  quantities  of  finely  minced  onion,  carrot, 
celery  and  peas,  season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika, 
adding  a  generous  lump  of  butter  for  each  bird.  Pour  in- 
to the  pan  Yz  cup  of  hot  water  to  which  has  been  added  2 
tablespoons  of  mushroom  catsup  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven 
for  Yo  hour  or  until  the  vegetables  are  tender,  basting 
frequently.  Remove  the  vegetables  and  turn  the  chickens 
to  brown  the  breasts  slightly.  Serve  them  covered  with  a 
sauce  made  from  the  same  vegetables  moistened  with  a 
very  little  hot  cream.  Garnish  with  tiny  squares  of  fried 
hominy  and  sweet  potato  croquettes. 

I.  C.  L. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  small,  as  for  stewing,  a  4  or  4^/2  lb.  chicken.     1 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY  33 

lb.  lean  veal  with  small  bone,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  to- 
gether over  fire  in  kettle,  with  cold  water  to  cover.  Skim 
as  soon  as  it  boils.  Add  }i  slice  Bermuda  onion  (about  2 
tablespoons  when  cut  up)  and  1  teaspoon  sage.  Let  it 
boil  slowly  (not  simmer)  until  it  will  easily  separate  from 
the  bone.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  About  >4  hour 
before  done  drain  and  cut  up  small  while  hot.  Put  in 
mould,  cover  with  enough  liquor,  so  that  when  an  inverted 
plate  is  pressed  onto  mould  the  liquor  will  rise  to  plate. 
Hard  boiled  eggs  may  be  sliced  and  put  on  bottom  of 
mould  before  chicken  is  put  in,  if  desired. 

Mrs.  L.  J.  Towne. 

TURKEY  DUMPLINGS. 

This  is  an  old-fashioned  Nfew  England  dish,  much  es- 
teemed by  our  Puritan  forefathers.  Make  a  rich  shortcake 
dough,  rolling  it  out  on  the  bread  board,  and  cut  into  cir- 
cular pieces  about  four  inches  in  diameter;  spread  each 
piece  generously  with  butter,  and  place  in  the  center  of 
each  a  tablespoon  of  turkey  prepared  as  follows :  Chop 
a  cup  of  cold  turkey,  not  too  fine ;  add  a  tablespoon  of  the 
dressing  and  a  stalk  of  minced  celery,  and  mix  well,  moist- 
ening with  a  little  giblet  gravy.  Fold  the  paste  over,  lap- 
ping the  edges,  and  form  into  balls  with  the  hands ;  arrange 
in  a  deep  baking  dish,  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven.  Serve  the  dumplings  with  Bechamel  sauce  as  fol- 
lows:  Cook  1^  cups  of  white  stock  with  a  slice  each  of 
onion  and  carrot,  a  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  six 
peppercorns  until  reduced  to  one  cup.  Brown  ^  cup  of 
flour  in  34  cup  of  butter,  add  the  stock,  and  beat  until 
smooth,  then  beat  into  it  a  cup  of  hot  cream.  Season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 

From  Good  Housekeeping. 

(Casserole  Dishes.) 

(Mrs.  J.  B.  Gascoigne,  from  Good  Housekeeping 

Magazine.) 

BAKED  VEAL  EN  CASSEROLE. 

Lay  in  a  heated,  buttered  casserole  Ij/^  lbs.  veal  steak. 
Add  1  cup  seasoned  stock  or  hot  water,  then  spread  over 
steak  a  dressing  made  of  2  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  chopped 


34  MEATS  AND  POULTRY 

onion,  1  beaten  egg,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  ^  hour  in  hot 
oven,  then  uncover  and  brown.  Serve  with  sour  jelly  or 
spiced  gooseberries. 

LAMB  RECHAUFFfi. 

Place  in  casserole  2  cups  of  diced  lamb.  Add  3  cups  of 
hot  lamb  broth,  or  seasoned  hot  w^ater,  1  cup  strained  to- 
matoes and  1^  teaspoons  of  salt.  Stir  in  %  cup  washed 
uncooked  rice  and  a  minced  pimento  if  desired.  Bake  40 
minutes. 

CHICKEN  RECHAUFFfi. 

Place  in  casserole  1  cup  cooked  string  beans,  ^^  cup 
diced  celery,  ^  minced  pimento,  1  small  onion  sliced  and 
^2  minced  carrot.  Add  lyz  cups  diced  chicken,  1  table- 
spoon salt.  Pour  over  all  1  cup  chicken  broth  and  ^^  cup 
strained  tomatoes.     Add  a  little  butter.     Bake  40  minutes. 

RAMEKINS  OF  CHICKEN. 

Cut  into  cubes  sufficient  cooked  chicken  to  make  1^ 
cups.  Have  ready  a  cup  of  cooked  and  drained  peas,  fresh 
or  canned,  and  ^  cup  sliced  mushrooms.  Melt  ^4  cup 
butter;  when  hot  and  bubbling  add  j4  cup  of  flour  and 
gradually  ^2  cup  each  of  chicken  stock,  cream,  and  the 
liquor  from  the  canned  mushrooms.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  paprika,  add  the  chicken,  peas  and  mushrooms, 
when  all  are  mixed  thoroughly,  place  in  the  ramekins.  Cover 
with  browned  bread  crumbs  and  serve. 


BREAD  SAUCE. 

To  serve  with  game  or  roast  fowl.  One  lb.  loaf  of  bread, 
1  qt.  milk,  ys  lb.  butter,  2  large  onions,  1  cup  thick  sweet 
cream,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  mace.  Boil 
onions  in  milk  until  thoroughly  flavored,  pour  over  crumbed 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY.  35 

bread  (without  crusts).  Let  it  stand  for  one  hour  or  more. 
Place  on  fire  and  reboil  adding  butter,  cream  and  seasoning. 
If  too  thick  add  cream. 

Mrs.  Townsend  Smith. 

TARTARE  SAUCE. 

One  pint  oHve  oil,  yolks  3  eggs,  pinch  each  of  salt  and 
red  pepper,  1  teaspoon  Coleman's  mustard  and  2  table- 
spoons vinegar.  Place  in  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  salt, 
pepper,  mustard  and  vinegar;  mix  well,  then  add  the  olive 
oil  drop  by  drop,  stirring  as  for  a  mayonnaise.  When  done 
flavor  with  ^  of  a  lemon.  Take  2  sour  pickles,  1  onion,  1 
tablespoon  capers,  1  clove  garlic,  parsley  and  cloves ;  chop 
fine  and  add  to  the  balance ;  stir  well  and  serve. 

Mrs.  George  R.   Sargent. 

SAUCE  HOLLANDAISE. 

Rub  together  2  tablespoons  flour  and  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter. Add  gradually  1  pint  boiling  water  and  stir  a  moment 
over  the  fire.  Then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  carefully 
1  tablespoon  butter,  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  and  2 
tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar.  Strain  and  add  a  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley. 

Clara  D.  Manley. 

SUITABLE  SAUCES  FOR  MEATS. 

Roast  Beef — Grated  horseradish. 
Roast  Mutton — Currant  jelly. 
Roast  Pork — Apple  sauce. 
Roast  Lamb — Mint  sauce. 

Venison  and  Wild  Duck — Black  currant  jelly  or  grape 
jelly. 

Roast  Goose — Apple  sauce. 

Roast  Turkey — Oyster  sauce. 

Roast  Chicken — Bread  sauce. 

Compote  of  Pigeons — Mushroom  sauce. 

Broiled  Blue  Fish — White  cream  sauce. 

Broiled  Shad — Rice. 

Fresh  Salmon — Green  peas  with  cream  sauce. 


MEMORANDA 


Vegetables 


"I'm  a  careless  potato,  and  care  not 

a  pin 
Hozv  into  existence  I  came; 
If   they   planted   me   drill-vuise    or 

dribbled  me  in, 
To  me  'tis  exactly  the  same." 

— Thomas  Moore. 

"Fruit,    vegetables   and   doctors   do 
not  thrive  together." 


38  VEGETABLES 

SCALLOPED   POTATOES. 

Place  alternate  layers  of  sliced  cooked  potatoes  and  white 
sauce  in  baking  dish.  Cover  with  cracker  crumbs.  Bake 
until  browned  on  top.  White  sauce:  1  cup  milk,  2  table- 
spoons each  of  flour  and  butter.  Cook  until  thick,  then  add 
a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  McDowell. 


POTATOES  AU  GRATIN. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  slices  ^  of  an  inch  thick. 
Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  a  saucepan ;  when  melted 
add  1  tablespoon  flour  and  ^  pt.  milk  and  stir  until  boiling. 
Take  from  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  tablespoons 
grated  cheese,  ^  tablespoon  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Put 
a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer 
of  potatoes  sliced  or  chopped,  and  so  on  alternately  until 
the  dish  is  filled.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  fine  bread  crumbs 
and  brown  in  quick  oven. 


Mrs.  R.  H.  Pooley. 


POTATO  PUFFS. 

Mash  the  potatoes  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper 
and  cream.  Beat  stiffly  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  stir 
lightly  into  the  potatoes.  Form  into  cones  on  a  buttered 
pan  and  brown  slightly  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harris. 


GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Wash  and  pare  6  medium-sized  potatoes.  Cook  10  min- 
utes in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain,  cut  in  halves  length- 
wise, and  put  in  a  buttered  pan.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling 
Yi  cup  of  sugar  and  4  tablespoons  water  together  3  minutes. 
Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  pour  syrup  over  potatoes  and 
bake  15  minutes.    Baste  twice  with  syrup. 


VEGETABLES  39 

SWEET  POTATO. 

Heat  1  cup  rich  milk,  add  a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Turn  into  it  two  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes  forced 
through  ricer.  Beat  with  a  fork  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Beat  2  eggs  until  light  and  add  to  potato  mixture.  Bake  20 
minutes  in  a  covered  pan,  then  remove  cover  and  brown. 

Katherine  Howard  Ward. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN. 

Put  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  in  baker,  then  layer  of  canned 
corn.  Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Moisten  with 
cream  and  repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  cracker 
crumbs  and  butter  on  top.     Bake  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harris. 

P.  E.  O.  CORN  CUSTARD. 

One  can  corn,  1^  cups  sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  1  tablespoon  each  of  sugar,  cornstarch  and  butter, 
3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately.  Mix  all  to- 
gether adding  whites  last.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  3/2 
hour. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Williams. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

To  one  can  of  Kornlet  add  2  eggs,  2  heaping  tablespoons 
flour.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Drop  into  skillet  of  very 
hot  butter  and  lard,  of  each  1  tablespoon,  and  fry  until 
brown. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Pope. 

CELERY  ON  TOAST. 

Cut  several  stalks  of  celery  into  small  pieces  and  boil 
in  salted  water  until  tender.  Put  2  heaping  tablespoons 
butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  brown.  Drain  celery,  stir  it 
into  the  browned  butter  and  serve  on  toast  placed  either 


40  VEGETABLES 

on  a  platter  or  on  individual  plates.  This  is  a  good  way 
to  use  the  coarser  stalks  of  celery,  leaving  the  hearts  and 
finer  portions  to  serve  in  other  ways. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Stults. 

GERMAN  CARROTS. 

Chop  4  small  carrots  fine,  using  chopping  bowl  and 
knife.  Put  into  a  sauce  pan  one  rounded  tablespoon  but- 
ter and  a  small  onion  cut  fine.  Fry,  stirring  constantly  until 
golden  brown  and  tender.  Add  the  carrots  and  1  teaspoon 
sugar,  cover  closely  and  let  simmer  gently.  When  tender 
(in  about  ^  hour)  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  % 
cup  cream  and  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley.  This  dish  is  im- 
proved by  the  addition  of  cold  cooked  or  canned  peas,  add- 
ing the  peas  at  the  very  last  and  allowing  them  to  heat 
through  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  Eiselen. 

BERLIN  SPINACH. 

Wash  and  wash  and  wash  again  to  remove  all  sand. 
Drain  and  throw  leaves  into  a  large  kettle  using  no  water. 
Sprinkle  with  a  saltspoon  of  salt  for  each  2  qts.  of  spinach. 
Cover  closely  but  do  not  forget  to  toss  and  turn  the  leaves 
now  and  then  to  insure  thorough  cooking.  When  tender, 
drain  in  a  colander,  and  put  through  the  meat  chopper. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  of  1  cup  milk  and  1  heaping  table- 
spoon flour  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  enriched 
with  one  tablespoon  butter.  Stir  spinach  and  cream  sauce 
together  until  piping  hot.  Serve  in  vegetable  dish  and 
garnish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  Eiselen. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN. 

Break  the  boiled  cauliflower  into  small  flowerets,  place 
them  in  a  pudding  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  white 
sauce  and  grated  cheese.  Cover  the  top  with  crumbs  moist- 
ened with  butter  and  bake  until  the  sauce  bubbles  through 
the  crumbs. 


VEGETABLES  41 

PEAS   IN   BOXES. 

Cut  stale  bread  in  two  inch  cubes  and  make  boxes  of 
them.  Brush  inside  and  out  with  melted  butter  and  brown 
in  oven.  Drain  1  can  peas  and  put  in  a  sauce  pan ;  add  1 
cup  milk  thickened  with  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and 
flour  rubbed  together ;  add  peas,  stirring  across,  not  around. 
Add  1  teaspoon  salt,  fill  boxes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Alfred  L.  Lindsey. 

FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Cut  ripe  tomatoes  into  thick  slices.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  well  with  flour  and  fry  them  brown  on 
both  sides  evenly,  in  hot  butter  and  lard  mixed.  Make  a 
cream  gravy  by  adding  flour  and  milk,  and  pour  over  the 
tomatoes. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Hobart. 

FRIED  BANANAS. 

Slice  bananas  %.  inch  thick;  dip  in  white  sugar,  fry  in 
very  little  butter  until  a  light  brown,  then  make  a  syrup 
of  1  cup  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  ^4  cup  of  water;  boil  un- 
til thick  and  serve  hot  on  bananas. 


MEMORANDA 


Luncheon  Dishes 


'The  king  and  queen  did  eat  thereof 
The  noblemen  beside, 
And   zvhat   they   did   not   eat   that 
night, 

1  he  queen  next  morning  fried." 


44  LUNCHEON  DISHES 

CHICKEN  OR  VEAL  CREAMS. 

Mince  1  lb.  chicken  or  veal  freed  from  bone  and  gristle. 
Rub  and  pound  to  a  paste.  Add  two  dozen  blanched  chop- 
ped almonds,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  1  teaspoon  salt,  Yi 
teaspoon  white  pepper.  Mix  and  add  gradually  the  un- 
beaten whites  of  3  eggs.  Then  carefully  stir  in  1/2  pint 
cream,  whipped.  Fill  into  timbale  moulds  and  bake  in  pan 
of  boiling  water  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20  minutes.  Turn 
out  on  a  platter  and  serve  with  a  rich  white  sauce  made  of 
half  milk  and  half  stock  from  the  veal  or  chicken.  This 
is  equally  good  made  from  salmon,  using  1  can,  or  1  lb. 
fresh  boiled,  rubbed  and  pounded  to  a  paste.  With  the 
salmon  use  Sauce  Hollandaise. 

Clara  D.  Manley. 

OMELET. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs,  whites  of  6  eggs,  Xy^  cups  of  milk,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly.  Add 
milk,  then  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  fold  carefully  into  first  mixture.  Pour 
this  into  a  hot  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  oven  until 
a  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Kingsley. 

EGGS  STUFFED  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Boil  6  eggs  for  20  minutes,  pour  cold  water  over  them, 
shell  and  cut  them  in  halves,  lengthwise.  To  the  yolks 
mashed,  add  34  pound  of  mushrooms  chopped  very  fine ; 
cook  until  tender.  To  this  mixture  add  1  teaspoon  butter, 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  in  a  dessert- 
spoon of  cream.  Mix  thoroughly.  Fill  the  whites  with 
the  mixture,  rounding  the  top  to  the  shape  and  size  of  a 
whole  yolk.  Over  the  top  sift  fine  bread  crumbs,  add  tiny 
bits  of  butter  and  brown  for  a  moment  in  the  oven.  Ar- 
range on  the  dish  and  pour  around  them  a  white  sauce 
into  which  a  few  chopped  and  cooked  mushrooms  have 
been  stirred.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Vawter. 


LUNCHEON  DISHES  45 

SCOTCH  WOODCOCK. 

Shell  and  chop  the  whites  of  6  hard  boiled  eggs  very  fine. 
Rub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste,  with  2  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter,  ^4  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dusting  of  paprika  and 
a  teaspoon  of  cornstarch.  Add  1^  cups  of  rich  milk  and 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  to  a  thick  cream.  Have  ready  a 
number  of  slices  of  thin  crisp  buttered  toast.  Spread  a  layer 
of  yolk  cream  over  each,  sprinkle  with  the  chopped  whites 
which  have  been  kept  warm  over  hot  water,  pile  on  a  hot 
platter,  pour  over  the  remainder  of  the  sauce  and  serve  at 
once. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Gascoigne. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLfi. 

Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  mix  smoothly 
with  it  one  ounce  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cayenne  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk.  Simmer  the  mixture  gently 
over  the  fire,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  till  it  is  as  thick  as 
melted  butter.  Stir  into  it  about  three  ounces  of  finely 
grated  cheese.  Turn  into  a  basin  and  mix  with  it  the 
yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Just  before  the  souffle  is 
put  into  the  oven  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten. 
The  baking  dish  should  be  only  half  filled  as  the  souffle 
will  rise  very  high.  Bake  twenty  minutes  and  serve  im- 
mediately. 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Kean. 

CHEESE  TOAST. 

To  a  half  pound  of  grated  American  cheese,  add  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg.  Heap 
on  rounds  of  toast  and  put  in  the  oven  until  brown.  Serve 
hot  with  tea  or  coffee, 

Eleanor  Harris  DeGolyer, 

SPANISH  TOAST. 

Cut  up  2  or  3  green  peppers  and  1  or  2  slices  of  onion. 
Add  a  cupful  of  thick  tomatoes,  canned  or  fresh.  Simmer 
the  mixture  until  smooth  and  pour  over  buttered  toast. 

Louise  E.  Whitehead, 


46  LUNCHEON  DISHES 

CHESTNUT   BOULETTES. 

One  cup  mashed  chestnuts,  2  egg  yolks,  2  tablespoons  of 
cream,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  yg 
teaspoon  of  salt,  2  egg  whites.  Boil  chestnuts  in  salted 
water  about  20  minutes,  shell,  skim  and  mash.  Add  cream, 
sugar,  salt  and  vanilla.  Cut  in  well  beaten  whites.  Form 
in  balls  about  the  size  of  chestnuts,  dip  in  white  of  egg, 
and  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Repeat  eggs  and  bread  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat  and  serve  with  any  good  sauce. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Long. 

MEAT  SOUFFLfi. 

One  cup  chopped  meat,  1  cup  white  sauce,  1  egg.  Mix 
yolk  with  meat.  Add  sauce  when  cool.  Stir  in  white  of 
egg,  beaten  stiff.    Bake  J^  hour. 

Mrs.  William  Eraser  McDowell. 

NUTS  WITH  RICE. 

Two  cups  of  cooked  rice,  1  cup  of  chopped  almonds  or 
peanuts,  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  season  to  taste  with 
salt.  Mix  together  with  a  beaten  egg  and  shape  into  balls. 
Fry  to  a  golden  brown  in  deep  boiling  lard,  and  garnish 
with  water  cress  or  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Vawter. 

CHEESE  CUSTARD. 

One  tea-cup  grated  cheese,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  1  large  tablespoon  milk.  Rub  butter  to  a  cream, 
add  cheese,  milk  and  salt.  Bake  in  earthen  plate  10  min- 
utes.    Serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  William  Eraser  McDowell. 

LUNCH  DISH. 

One  cup  rice,  boiled  until  soft,  >^  can  deviled  ham,  lump 
of  butter.  Put  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  grated 
cheese  on  top,  and  bake  about  fifteen  minutes. 

Caroline  Spalding. 

VEGETABLE  CHOP  SUEY. 
One  cup  raw  potatoes,  1  cup  white  turnips,  1  cup  celery, 


LUNCHEON  DISHES 47 

1  cup  onions.  Peel  the  vegetables  and  cut  in  half  inch 
cubes.  Mix  all  together,  rinse  in  cold  water  and  sprinkle 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  1  heaping  tablespoon  but- 
ter in  agate  saucepan  with  a  tight  fitting  cover;  heat  and 
pour  in  vegetables.  Put  cover  on  and  do  not  remove  it. 
Steam  25  minutes.  No  water  needed.  Low  fire.  Shake  the 
pan  occasionally  without  removing  cover.  When  done  the 
vegetables  should  be  soft  but  not  mushy,  and  the  full  flavor 

will  be  retained.  t.^       r\   -n    r^    t.- 

Mrs.  D.  R.  Curtis. 

RICE  CAKES. 

One  cup  soft  boiled  rice,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  2  small  table- 
spoons of  flour — salt.  Beat  whites  of  4  eggs  stiff,  mix  with 
rest.     Fry  on  buttered  griddle. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Cleveland. 

TOMATO  AND  MACARONI. 

One  quart  of  tomatoes  cooked  until  tender  with  4  or  5 

cloves,    salt,   pepper,   and    1    medium   sized   onion.      When 

soft,  put  through  a  strainer  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon 

flour  rubbed  with  2  tablespoons  butter.     Cook  part  of  a 

package  of  macaroni  in  plenty  of  water  slowly  for  1  hour. 

Drain  macaroni  and  throw  over  it  a  dash  of  cold  water; 

drain  again  thoroughly.     Now  mix  J^   cup  grated  cheese 

with  the  tomato  sauce  and  pour  over  the  macaroni  which 

has   been   put   in   a   baking   dish.      Cover   top    with   bread 

crumbs  and  bake  V2  hour.  ,, 

^  Mrs.  J,  A,  James. 

BAKED  MACARONI. 

One  cup  French  spaghetti  broken  into  small  pieces ;  boil 
20  minutes,  drain  and  put  into  cold  water.  Rub  together 
1  tablespoon  butter  and  2  tablespoons  flour.  Add  1  pt,  sweet 
milk,  cook  until  thick,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
1  cup  grated  cheese,  stir  well.  Place  macaroni  in  buttered 
dish  and  pour  over  it  the  cooked  mixture.  Cover  with 
bread  crumbs  and  bake  quickly  until  brown. 

Mrs.  N.  M.  Jones. 

THANKSGIVING  HASH. 
Fill  a  pudding  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs 


48  LUNCHEON  DISHES 

chopped  turkey  and  oysters,  using  the  bread  crumbs  for 
the  bottom  layer.  Pour  over  all  1  pint  cream  sauce  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Traxler. 

DEVILED  SALMON. 

One  can  salmon,  sixteen  large  crackers,  one  small  onion, 
two  ounces  butter.  Flake  or  rub  salmon  fine  with  a  silver 
fork  and  roll  the  crackers.  Into  a  well  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  put  altenate  layers  of  salmon  and  cracker,  season- 
ing with  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  onion  and  butter.  Pour  one 
pint  of  hot  water  over  and  through  the  mixture  which 
should  be  finished  with  a  layer  of  the  cracker  crumbs  plen- 
tifully dotted  with  butter,  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown.  If 
the  fish  is  very  oily  less  butter  will  be  needed. 

Mrs.  Bentley  Masslich. 

TURKISH  PILAF. 

Stew  Yi  can  of  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes,  and  strain. 
Put  into  a  double  boiler  one  cup  of  the  strained  tomatoes 
and  one  generous  cup  of  beef,  veal  or  chicken  stock ;  seas- 
on lightly  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  while  boiling,  add  ^ 
cup  of  well  washed  rice.  Cook  for  about  an  hour  or  until 
the  rice  has  absorbed  all  the  liquor.  Then  add  Y^  oi  2l 
cup  of  butter  and  set  where  it  will  keep  warm  for  20  min- 
utes. A  little  before  serving  remove  the  cover  and  let  the 
steam  escape.  Stir  with  a  fork.  Serve  on  a  plate  or 
platter,  as  a  vegetable,  with  border  of  croquettes  or  pieces 
of  chicken. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Fanning. 

ASPARAGUS  AND  BACON. 

Wash  asparagus  and  cook  in  salted  water  until  tender, 
placing  asparagus  in  an  upright  position  so  the  tops  are 
just  out  of  water.  Place  toasted  bread  which  has  been  well 
buttered  on  a  platter.  When  asparagus  is  tender,  pour  over 
milk  enough  to  cover,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter.  Place  asparagus  on  toast,  pour  hot  milk  over  it, 
and  arrange  slices  of  crisp  bacon  around  edge  of  phtter. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Kingsley. 


LUNCHEON  DISHES  49 

WARMED-OVER  BAKED  BEANS. 

A  layer  of  baked  beans,  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  a  layer  of 
onions  shaved  thin,  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Repeat  each 
layer.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes.  See  that  there  is  plenty  of 
juice  with  the  tomatoes  to  moisten  the  ingredients  well. 
This  looks  best  baked  and  served  in  individual  dishes. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harris. 

BAKED  BANANAS. 

Remove  skins  and  lay  in  baking  dish  so  that  they  do 
not  touch.  Three  even  tablespoons  butter,  7  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Mix  thor- 
oughly in  a  warm  place  where  ingredients  will  melt.  Baste 
bananas  frequently  with  the  mixture  while  baking.  Bake 
for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Sufficient  for  8  or  10 
bananas. 


J.  C.  L. 


MUSH  BREAD. 


Stir  carefully  into  1  pint  hot  milk,  in  a  double  boiler,  two 
thirds  cup  corn  meal  (white  preferred).  Salt  to  taste,  cook 
and  stir  5  minutes.  Take  from  fire,  and  when  cool  (not 
cold)  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Carefully  fold  in 
the  well  beaten  whites.  Turn  into  a  baking  dish,  and  bake 
30  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.    Very  nice  as  a  luncheon  dish. 

Mrs.  C.  N.  Stevens. 

DEVONSHIRE  CLOTTED  CREAM. 

Pour  4  or  5  quarts  of  fresh,  or  good  sweet  unseparated 
milk  into  a  wide  topped  milk  pan  or  earthen  crock.  Let  it 
stand  until  the  cream  is  well  risen  (about  12  hours  in  the 
icebox.)  Then  without  disturbing  the  contents  of  the  pan, 
place  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  steam  gently,  without 
a  cover  until  cream  starts  to  crinkle.  Remove  from  fire 
and  let  stand  until  very  cold,  then  skim.  This  makes  a 
delicious  dish  whether  used  as  cream,  as  is  usual,  or  spread 
thickly  over  bread  in  place  of  butter  for  four  o'clock  tea. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Boot. 


For  Twenty  Years  the  Choice 
of  Connoisseurs 

Yacht  Club 


nil' f  1111 


5j«8gs  and  purti«5«g 
Stolor  or  prcsetYiliSB^ 


Salad  Dressin. 


Salads  and  Sandwiches 


'To   make   them   one   must   have   a 
spark  of  genius." 

'Ground  hetzveen  the  upper  and  the 
nether  millstone." 


52  SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 

A   RELISH. 

One  package  cream  cheese,  a  10  cent  bottle  stuffed  olives, 
%  cup  nuts,  butter  size  of  walnut,  1  hard  boiled  egg.  Cream 
cheese,  adding  a  little  cream  if  necessary.  Chop  the  olives, 
nuts  and  eggs  quite  fine  and  add  to  cheese,  then  add  the 
butter  creamed. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Fanning. 


POTATO  SALAD. 

Three  cold  boiled  potatoes,  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  ^^  cup 
English  walnuts,  12  olives.  Break  up  walnuts  saving  a 
dozen  halves  unbroken.  Cut  potatoes  and  eggs  into  bits 
as  large  as  your  finger  tip.  Stone  olives  and  cut  up.  Mix 
together  in  a  bowl  but  do  not  stir  much.  Sprinkle  well  with 
French  dressing  and  put  on  the  ice.  Just  before  serving 
mix  quickly  with  stiff  mayonnaise  and  garnish  with  lettuce. 

Marian  Graves  Day. 


CABBAGE  SALAD. 

One  cup  fresh  cabbage,  ^  sweet  red  pepper  chopped 
rather  coarse.  Mix  and  chill.  Just  before  serving  add  V/i 
doz.  Malaga  grapes  seeded  and  chilled.  Serve  in  lettuce 
leaves  with  the  following  dressing :  To  ^  cup  cream  add  2 
teaspoons  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  Y^.  saltspoon  paprika. 
Whip  well  and  add  >^  cup  vinegar. 

Marian  Graves  Day. 

COMBINATION  SALAD. 

One  good  sized  head  of  lettuce,  two  large  tomatoes,  one 
bunch  of  radishes,  one-half  of  a  cucumber  or  one-half  of  a 
can  of  asparagus.  Cut  the  tomatoes  in  thick  slices,  radish- 
es and  cucumber  in  thin  slices  and  cover  all  with  French 
dressing. 

Mrs.  R,  D.  V.  Johnson. 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES  53 

TOMATO   SALAD. 

Peel  very  firm  tomatoes  and  remove  pulp.  Cut  in  small 
pieces,  cucumbers,  walnuts  and  olives.  Add  to  the  pulp 
and  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Fill  tomatoes  with  the 
mixture,  dot  the  top  with  dressing,  a  whole  olive  and  a 
walnut.     Serve  on  lettuce. 

Mrs.  E.  C.   E.  Dorion. 

COLUMBINE  SALAD. 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  1  slice  of  onion,  celery  tops,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
pour  it  over  1  tablespoon  powdered  gelatine  which  has 
been  covered  with  cold  water  for  5  minutes  and  flavored 
with  the  juice  of  ^  a  lemon.  When  the  gelatine  is  dis- 
solved, strain  the  mixture  into  moulds  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  the  following  dressing:  To  the  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs  add  slowly  ^  cup  of  olive  oil,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon  (or  vinegar,)  y^  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
beating  all  well.     Should  be  like  thick  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Sanders. 

NAVY  BEAN   SALAD. 

Prepare  Navy  beans  as  for  table ;  serve  1  tablespoon 
on  lettuce  for  each  person  and  pour  over  it  1  tablespoon 
hot  salad  dressing  just  before  serving.  Dressing:  1  cup 
vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper,  butter  the 
size  of  an  ^gg,  1  teaspoon  mustard.  Mix  and  boil  a  mom- 
ent, then  pour  over  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Heat  to  just 
below  the  boiling  point.  This  is  a  good  dressing,  when  cold 
for  almost  any  kind  of  a  salad. 

Mrs.  F.  L.  Blanchard. 

CUCUMBER  JELLY. 

Soak  1  pkg.  gelatine  in  a  very  little  water.  Peel  enough 
cucumbers  to  make  four  cups  full  and  chop  fine.  Add  1 
small  onion,  a  little  celery,  a  little  parsley  and  juice  of 
three  lemons.  Melt  gelatine  over  hot  water  and  stir  all 
thoroughly  together.  Mould  in  cups  and  serve  as  a  relish 
^^■^th  meats.  ^^^   ^^^^  ^   Long. 


54 SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 

SALAD  OR  RELISH. 

One  half  box  Knox's  gelatine  soaked  in  ^  cup  cold 
water,  ^  cup  vinegar,  1  pint  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  3  cups  chopped  cabbage  and  celery  in  any  desired 
proportion  (cucumber  may  be  used  if  desired,  Yz  cup 
sugar,  1  small  green  pepper,  finely  shredded,  1  small  red 
pepper  finely  shredded.  When  pepper  cannot  be  obtained, 
use  2  pimentoes  and  a  little  ground  red  pepper.  To  the 
gelatine  and  cold  water  add  vinegar,  boiling  water,  sugar, 
salt  and  other  ingredients.  Turn  into  mould  and  chill. 
May  be  used  as  a  relish  or  is  very  nice  served  in  individual 
moulds  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Clara  D.  Manley. 

NUT,  CELERY  AND  APPLE  SALAD. 

One  cup  of  nicely  cut  celery,  1  cup  of  apples  cut  in  small 
cubes,  Yi  cup  of  cut  or  broken  walnut  meats.  Mix  together 
and  serve  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing  or  lettuce.  One  half 
a  cup  of  white  grapes,  skinned  and  cut,  is  a  good  addition. 

Mrs.  A,  L.  Fanning. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 

Marinate  slices  of  pineapple  in  French  dressing.  Lay  a 
slice  of  the  marinated  pineapple  on  a  lettuce  leaf  on  each 
salad  plate,  scattering  around  it  cream  cheese  which  has 
been  put  through  a  potato  ricer.  Place  in  the  center  of  each 
slice  a  maraschino  cherry.  (As  served  in  Marshall  Field 
Tea  Room.) 

Clara  A.  Sargent. 

CHERRY  SALAD. 

Remove  the  pits  from  large  California  cherries  and  in- 
sert hazelnuts.     Serve  with  mayonnaise  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  A.  L,  Fanning. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

Cut  up  oranges,  removing  seeds  and  white  fibre.  Mix 
with  a  little  sugar  and  serve  with  the  following  dressing: 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES  65 

Mix  together  j^  cup  vinegar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of 
cayenne,  Yi  cup  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Put  into  a 
double  boiler  stirring  constantly  until  creamy.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  them  to  the 
hot  creamy  mixture,  beat  thoroughly ;  remove  from  the 
fire.  Cool  and  then  add  2  cups  of  sour  cream  and  it  is 
ready  for  use, 

Mildred  Johnson. 
Glenwood  Mission  Inn,  Redlands,  Cal. 

GRAPE  SALAD. 

Halve  and  seed  Tokay  grapes,  chop  walnuts  and  celery 
and  add  to  the  grapes.     Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  E.  Dorion. 

P.  E.  O.  SALAD. 

One  cup  boiled  chicken,  chopped,  one  cup  chicken  stock, 
one  cup  whipped  cream,  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
One  tablespoon  gelatine  dissolved.  Celery  salt.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mix  and  put  in  mould.  Serve  cold,  cov- 
ered with  mayonnaise  dressing  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Williams. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Time  for  mixing  20  minutes.  Yolks  of  2  eggs.  1  tea- 
spoon mustard,  Yx  teaspoon  paprika  or  pepper,  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  1  lemon,  the  strained  juice.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, then  add  1  small  pint  of  olive  oil  if  light  in  quant- 
ity, if  heavy  only  half  the  bottle.  Beat  15  minutes  with 
^%g  beater,  then  add  3  tablespoons  of  mild  vinegar,  2  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  separately.  Beat  5  minutes.  Cream,  also, 
may  be  added. 

Marian  Graves  Day, 

MAYONNAISE, 

(Taken  from  "Vital  Question  Cook  Book.") 
One  level   teaspoon   each,  of   salt  and   mustard,    1   level 
tablespoon  powdered  sugar,   ^   teaspoon  paprika,  2  table- 
spoons each  of  lemon  juice  and  vinegar,  2  eggs,  1^/2  cups 


56  SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 

olive  oil.  Thoroughly  chill  oil,  bowl  and  spoon  to  be  used, 
before  beginning  the  dressing.  Separate  the  eggs.  Mix 
the  dry  ingredients  in  the  bowl,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  mix 
well,  then  add  the  oil,  a  drop  at  a  time  in  the  beginning. 
Stir  constantly,  and  as  the  mixture  thickens,  thin  it  with 
the  lemon  juice  and  vinegar  used  alternately.  Then  add 
more  oil  until  all  is  used.  Lastly  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  dry.  If  a  white  dressing  is  desired,  use  all 
lemon  juice,  stirring  very  thoroughly.  After  half  the  oil 
has  been  used  it  may  be  added  in  larger  quantities.  If  the 
mixture  should  curdle,  it  is  because  the  oil  has  been  added 
too  rapidly.  This  may  be  remedied  by  taking  another  egg 
yolk  and  adding  the  curdled  mixture  to  it  slowly. 

Minnie  R.  Terry. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Four  tablespoons  butter,  1  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and 
sugar.  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  dry  mustard,  1  cup  each 
of  mild  vinegar  and  milk,  3  eggs,  pinch  cayenne.  Let  the 
butter  get  hot,  add  flour  and  stir  until  smooth,  being  care- 
ful not  to  brown ;  add  milk,  stir  and  boil  up.  Place  the 
sauce-pan  in  another  of  hot  water ;  beat  eggs,  salt  and 
mustard,  add  vinegar  and  stir  into  the  boiling  mixture. 
Q)ntinue  stirring  until  it  thickens. 

Frances  A.  Bronson. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

One  teaspoon  each  of  flour  and  mustard,  ^  teaspoon 
salt,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  egg  yolks, 
%  cup  vinegar.  }i  cup  cream.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients  with 
the  butter,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  cream  and  lastly  the 
vinegar.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens.  Strain  if 
necessary  and  chill. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  McCabe. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Cream  together  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  tablespoons  sugar 
and  1  teaspoon  mustard.  Add  pinch  of  salt  and  red  pepper, 
a  small  lump  of  butter  and  3  tablespoons  vinegar.     Cook 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES  57 

until  thick,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  thin  to  right  consist- 
ency with  whipped  cream. 

Ella  Trelease. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  1  loaf  of  graham  bread  into  slices  about  half  an  inch 
thick.  Melt  to  the  consistency  of  jam,  3^  lb.  maple  sugar 
and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Add  a  little  lemon  juice.  Spread 
this  maple  paste  on  the  slices  of  bread,  press  the  slices  into 
sandwiches  and  toast  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  F.  M.  Wigmore. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

Put  fresh  peanuts  through  a  meat  grinder.  Add  enough 
salad  dressing  to  make  a  paste  and  spread  on  bread.  This 
is  much  better  than  the  peanut  butter  you  buy. 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Kean. 

PIMENTO  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  together  1  can  of  pimentos,  J^  cup  English  wal- 
nuts, and  1  package  cream  cheese.  Add  2  tablespoons  may- 
onnaise dressing.  Spread  thickly  between  thin  buttered 
slices  of  bread. 

Mrs.  Roy  H.  Goddard. 

DAINTY  SANDWICHES. 

Fig  Sandwiches — Steam  and  chop  very  fine  a  sufficient 
number  of  figs ;  add  enough  water  to  make  the  consistency 
of  marmalade,  and  simmer  to  a  smooth  paste ;  flavor  with 
a  little  lemon  juice.  When  cool,  spread  on  thin  slices  of 
buttered  bread ;  sprinkle  thickly  with  finely  chopped  nut 
meats. 

Date  Sandwiches — Wash,  dry  and  stone  the  dates.  Mash 
them  to  a  pulp  and  add  chopped  English  walnut  or  pecan 
meats.  Moisten  slightly  with  lemon  juice.  Spread  smooth- 
ly on  thinly-sliced  brown  bread. 

Alice  Patterson  Curl. 


^<X\e\OKX"b 


Natural  Fruit  Flavors    ^\Cl\)OXV!M0^ 


Vanilla 
Lemon 
Orange 
Rose,  etc. 


As  whole- 
some, nour- 
ishing and 
palatable  as 
any  food  ever 
made.  Unlike 
any  other 
food.  A  mix- 
ture of  Wheat y 
Rice,  Oats  and 
Barley. 


Ask  Your  Grocer 


Puddings  and  Sauces 


'The  end  crowns  all." 


60 PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  suet,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
raisins,  2^^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, y2  teaspoon  allspice,  3^  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon 
soda.  Boil  or  steam  about  2  hours.  Sauce:  Two  table- 
spoons butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  ^^  cup  sugar,  1  ^gg.  Add 
boiling  water  to  make  proper  consistency. 

Mrs.  Alonzo  C.  Fry. 

SUET  PUFF. 

One  ^gg,  Yz  cup  sour  milk,  ^  cup  molasses,  1  cup  flour, 
Yz  cup  chopped  suet,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  Yi  tablespoon 
soda,  in  milk.  Put  into  cups  and  steam  Y\  of  an  hour.  Fill 
cups  half  full. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  James. 

FRUIT  SUET  PUDDING. 
(By  request.) 

Pour  over  one  cup  finely  chopped  suet,  1  cup  boiling 
water.  To  this  add  1  cup  dark  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  grated,  1  cup  each 
of  raisins  and  apple,  chopped  and  floured,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  bat- 
ter. Place  in  a  pan  and  steam  3  hours,  or  use  a  double 
boiler. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Williams. 

SMALL  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  cup  milk,  ^  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  molasses,  3/2  cup 
butter,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Steam 
2  hours  and  serve  with  hard  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  N.  W.  Helm. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Eight  eggs,  y^  lb.  suet,  1  lb.  raisins,  1  lb.  currants,  Ya 
lb.  citron  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  bread  crumbs, 
2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  61 

1  teaspoon  cloves  (scant),  1  teaspoon  allspice,  1  nutmeg. 
Steam  3  hours. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Wells. 

STEAMED  PUDDING. 

One  cup  baking  molasses,  1  cup  hot  water,  2  cups  flour, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  saltspoon  salt.  Steam 
1^  to  2  hours  and  serve  with  any  kind  of  pudding  sauce. 

Jennie  Woodworth  Barrett. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  ^  cup  butter,  1  cup  molasses,  1  lb. 
chopped  figs,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  3^  teaspoon  soda  in  a 
little  hot  water,  2  eggs,  3  cups  flour.  Steam  for  2  hours. 
Sauce  for  above:  Beat  together  for  15  minutes;  1  cup 
sugar,  1  egg,  ^  cup  butter,  then  set  it  over  the  tea  kettle 
until  it  creams  and  becomes  foamy.  Stir  in  lastly  1  tea- 
spoon vinegar. 

Mrs.  Frank  B.  Dyche. 

TROY  PUDDING. 

Three  tablespoons  sugar,  Syi  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  chopped  suet,  ly2  cups  milk,  1^  lbs.  currants,  Ij^  lbs. 
seeded  raisins,  ^2  teaspoon  salt,  }^  lb.  citron,  small  pieces 
of  orange  peel.    Mix,  mould  and  steam  3  hours. 

M.  Wyckoflf. 

BLACK  PUDDING. 

One  pint  bread  crumbs,  ^  pint  flour,  ^  pint  hot  water, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  ^  teaspoon 
salt,  y2  pint  seeded  raisins,  ^^  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg, 
cloves,  allspice,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  3^  pint  molasses. 
Mix  and  steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  Black  Pudding  Sauce : 
Cream  together  2  cups  pulverized  sugar  and  1  cup  butter. 
Then  add  white  of  1  egg,  not  beaten.  This  makes  a  hard 
sauce. 

Clara  A.  Sargent. 


62  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

BREAD  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Six  apples,  ^  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter. 
Slice  apples  into  a  baking  dish  and  add  sugar.  Soak  .3 
slices  stale  bread  in  water  with  pinch  of  salt.  Then  lay 
bread  on  top  of  apples.  Put  butter  on  top  of  bread  and 
bake  in  slow  oven, 

J.   C.   D. 

DATE  PUDDING. 

Use  one  pound  dates,  washed  well,  stoned,  and  cut  up 
fine.  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  English  walnuts  chopped  fine, 
whites  6  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Fold  in  carefully  and  put  in 
moderate  oven  15  minutes  or  until  brown.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Ella  Dahl  Rich. 

DATE  TORTE. 

Chop  1  cup  nuts  and  1  cup  dates.  Add  1  cup  sugar,  2 
eggs,  3  tablespoons  each  of  milk  and  Hour,  1  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder.    Bake  3^  hour.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Wessling. 

QUICK  PUFF  PUDDING. 

One  pint  flour,  2  tablespoons  baking  powder,  a  little  salt, 
milk  enough  to  make  very  soft  batter.  Place  in  well-greased 
cups  a  spoonful  of  batter,  one  of  fruit  and  another  of  bat- 
ter.    Steam  twenty  minutes, 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Patten. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING, 

One  cup  each  of  milk,  N,  O.  molasses,  seeded  raisins  and 
currants,  2^^  cups  graham  flour,  ^  cup  each  of  butter  and 
citron,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and 
soda.     Steam  for  2  hours. 

Jane  Scott, 

CHOCOLATE  BREAD  PUDDING. 
One  cup  of  fresh  bread  crumbs,  2^  cups  of  milk,  1^ 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  63 

squares  of  Baker's  chocolate,  2  eggs,  3^  teaspoon  vanilla, 
sugar  to  taste.  Stir  the  bread  crumbs  into  the  milk,  add  the 
chocolate,  which  has  previously  been  melted  in  a  bowl  over 
steam  or  in  hot  water.  Add  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  vanilla 
and  sugar  and  bake  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve 
warm  with  hard  sauce,  made  by  creaming  together  1  cup 
sugar  and  5^  cup  butter. 

Mrs.  A.   L.   Fanning. 

BLUEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Favorite  recipe  at  Bois  Blanc  Island,  Straits  of  Mack- 
inac. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
2  cups  flour.  2  tablespoons  baking  powder,  1^  cups  berries 
mixed  carefully  in  the  batter.  Bake  in  oven.  Sauce :  boil 
1  cup  berries  in  a  little  water,  press  through  sieve,  add  flour 
to  juice  to  thicken,  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  A  little 
lemon  juice  if  desired. 

Ruth  S.  Atwell. 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 

One  grated  pineapple  (or  1  can),  ^  cup  butter,  1  cup 
sugar,  }^  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  6  eggs,  separ- 
ated and  well  beaten.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  light, 
add  yolks  and  other  ingredients  and  last  of  all  the  whites. 
Turn  into  well  buttered  pudding  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  ^2  hour.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Equally  good 
hot  or  cold. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Boot. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM. 

Two  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine,  ^2  cup  water,  1 
can  grated  Hawaiian  Pineapple,  -)4  cup  water,  3/2  cup 
sugar,  Yz  lemon,  2  cups  cream  whipped.  Soak  gelatine  in 
water.  Heat  pineapple,  ^  cup  water,  sugar  and  lemon 
juice  and  when  boiling  add  gelatine.  When  cool  and  be- 
ginning to  thicken  add  whipped  cream.  Serve  very  cold 
with  candied  cherries. 

Miss  Grace  Ericson. 


64  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 

One  package  gelatine,  1  pint  cold  water,  1  quart  can  pine- 
apple. Pour  into  this  gelatine  mixture  the  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Sprinkle  chopped  nuts  on  top.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Grace  E.  Hall. 

SHORT  CAKE. 

Measure  3  cups  flour,  add  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
rub  in  ^  cup  butter.  Beat  1  egg  very  light,  add  to  it  1  cup 
cold  water  and  stir  into  the  flour.  Spread  on  2  well-greased 
shallow  pans.  Sprinkle  one  teaspoon  granulated  sugar  over 
top  of  each  and  bake  from  10  to  15  minutes  in  a  very  hot 
oven.     Serve  with  fresh  or  canned  crushed  fruit. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Thompson. 

DUTCH  PEACH  SHORTCAKE. 

One  egg,  34  teaspoon  salt,  3^  cup  sweet  milk,  1  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  %  cup  flour,  1^  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Pour  batter  in  deep  pie  dish,  cover  with  halves 
of  canned  peaches,  sprinkle  with  3  heaping  tablespoons  of 
sugar.  Bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven.  Serve  with  a  hot  sauce 
made  by  thickening  peach  juice  with  a  little  cornstarch. 

Lillian  R.  Eiselen. 

SHORT  CAKE. 

Two  cups  flour,  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  -)4  cup  milk,  ^4  cup  melted 
butter.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sift.  Add  butter,  and 
lastly  milk,  slowly.  When  baked  spread  with  hard  sauce 
and  then  berries  partly  crushed. 

Mary  Ross  Potter. 

STRAWBERRY  PUDDING. 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  J^  cup  water, 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
sifted  twice  through   1^   cups  flour.     Steam  steadily   for 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES     65 

40  minutes.  Serve  with  strawberry  sauce:  One  large  box 
ripe  strawberries.  1>4  cups  powdered  sugar,  ^  cup  butter 
stirred  to  a  cream;  then  add  berries  and  put  on  ice  for  2 
hours  before  using. 

Mrs.  Amos  W.  Patten. 

SPONGE  PUDDING. 
(By  special  request.) 

One  pint  milk,  Yz  cup  butter,  J^  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  flour, 
6  eggs.  Cream  flour  and  butter,  add  scalded  milk  and 
sugar.  After  cooling,  add  beaten  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs. 
Bake  in  a  pan  of  water  from  30  to  45  minutes.  Sauce :  One 
cup  maple  sugar,  ^  cup  water,  ^^  cup  whipping  cream. 
Boil  sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup  and  add  whipped  cream. 

Louise  E.  Whitehead. 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

One  pound  prunes,  boiled  until  soft.  Remove  stones  and 
mash.  To  this  paste  add  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten 
and  ^  cup  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Place  baking  dish 
in  one  of  water  and  bake  1  hour  in  slow  oven.  Serve  cold 
with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Ruttan. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

One  scant  pint  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  milk,  1  cup  sugar, 
1  lemon,  5  eggs,  butter  size  of  ^%g.  Grate  the  rind  of  the 
lemon  and  put  it  into  the  sugar,  butter  and  bread  crumbs. 
Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pour  over  all  the  scalding  milk. 
Let  stand  till  cool,  then  add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake 
until  set.  When  cool  spread  with  jelly  or  jam  and  cover 
with  a  meringue  made  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  Yz  cup  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Brown  slowly  in  oven.  Serve 
cold  with  cream  or  hot  with  fruit  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  McCallum. 

ORANGE  JELLY  PUDDING. 
One  cup  orange  juice,  juice  of  2  lemons  with  grated  rind 


66  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

of  one,  Yz  box  gelatine  in  cold  water  enough  to  dissolve 
it,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water.  Mix  the  ingredients 
together  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point,  stirring  and  skimming 
off  foam.  Strain  into  mould.  May  be  colored  with  fruit 
coloring.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Terry. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  scalded  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  until  light, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  scant  tablespoons  cornstarch.  Mix 
and  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
cold  pour  this  dressing  over  3  or  4  oranges  sliced,  and 
spread  the  top  with  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  very  light 
and  sweetened  with  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

Mrs.  Frank  B.  Dyche. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

One  tablespoon  cornstarch,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  water, 
yolks  2  eggs,  1  small  lemon.  Cook  in  double  boiler.  Use 
whites  of  eggs  for  meringue.  Bake  slowly  till  meringue 
is  cooked.     Place  on  ice  and  serve  when  cold. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Pooley. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

Two  large  lemons,  grated  rind  and  juice.  1  cup  sugar, 
8  eggs,  1  tablespoon  gelatine,  ^  cup  water.  Heat  lemon 
juice  and  half  the  sugar  in  double  boiler,  then  put  in  yolks 
and  other  half  of  sugar  and  cook  till  thick.  Add  softened 
gelatine  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  mould. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  D.  A.  Hayes. 

MAPLE  CREAM  PUDDING. 

One  pint  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  maple  syrup, 
Yz  pint  cream,  ^  box  lemon  gelatine  in  Yz  pint  water.  Scald 
milk  and  sugar.     Add  maple  syrup,  then  gelatine.     When 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  67 

it  begins  to  congeal  add  Yo  pint  whipped  cream.     Set  in 
mould  and  serve  with  cream. 

J.  C.  D. 

MAPLE  CREAM. 

One  tablespoon  gelatine,  one  third  cup  water,  two- 
thirds  cup  boiling  water,  2  cups  maple  syrup,  yolks  6  eggs, 
2  cups  whipped  cream.  Soak  gelatine  in  one-third  cup 
water  and  add  boiling  water ;  cool.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
syrup  and  yolks  of  eggs  until  slightly  thickened.  When 
cool  add  gelatine,  and  when  this  thickens  add  whipped 
cream.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  and  decorate  with 
candied  cherries. 

Miss  Grace  Ericson. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 

Melt  one  square  Baker's  chocolate  in  ^^  pint  hot  milk, 
add  1  pint  milk.  1  small  cup  sugar,  1  large  tablespoon  pow- 
dered gelatine  that  has  been  soaked  in  a  little  water ;  cook 
until  gelatine  dissolves ;  add  a  pint  of  cream,  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  pour  into  moulds,  serve  with  whipped  or  plain 
cream. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Sanders. 

COFFEE  CREAM. 

One  half  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine,  ^  cup  cold 
water,  ^cup  sugar,  Xy^  cup  cream,  V^  cup  strong  coffee. 
Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  coffee  and  the 
sugar.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  this  and  strain  into  dish.  Place 
on  ice  to  cool,  stirring  it  occasionally.  When  the  liquid  is 
the  consistency  of  syrup,  add  whipped  cream.  Beat  until 
thick  but  not  hard.    Turn  into  moulds. 

Mrs.  John  Trelease. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 

Four  cups  scalded  milk,  5  eggs,  Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  ^  cup  sugar.     Put  sugar  in  iron  or  steel 


68  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

pan  and  stir  it  constantly  over  fire  until  melted  to  a  syrup 
of  light  brown  color.  Add  gradually  to  milk.  As  soon  as 
sugar  is  melted  in  milk  add  mixture  to  eggs  slightly  beaten, 
add  salt  and  flavoring  and  strain  into  buttered  mold.  Bake 
with  pan  set  in  water.    Chill  and  serve  with  caramel  sauce. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  L. 

MERINGUE  DESSERT. 

To  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  slow- 
ly 1  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vinegar  and  1  teaspoon  vanil- 
la. Bake  in  muffin  tins  for  one  hour  in  a  very  slow  oven. 
Before  serving,  carefully  remove  tops,  fill  with  whipped 
cream  and  fruit,  and  replace  tops.  This  amount  will  serve 
eight. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Stuart. 

BANANA  PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk,  2  eggs,  1^  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  or 
flour,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  Yz  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  in 
double  boiler.  When  cool  pour  it  over  6  bananas  sliced  thin 
in  a  pudding  dish.    Serve  very  cold.    It  is  like  ice  cream. 

Mrs.  U.  S.  Grant. 

A  QUICK  DESSERT. 

Put  raisins  through  the  meat  chopper  and  then  spread 
between  buttered  graham  crackers.  Serve  with  a  hard 
sauce  or  a  lemon  sauce.     Delicious. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Stults. 

MARSHMALLOW  DELIGHT. 

One  half  lb.  marshmallows  cut  fine,  1  can  pitted  red 
cherries,  Yi  lb.  walnuts,  chopped,  34  Ih.  figs  chopped,  whites 
of  2  eggs,  beaten.  Mix  all  together  and  when  ready  to 
serve  add  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  E.  Dorion. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  69 

CREME  CARAMEL. 

Put  1  pt.  milk  to  boil  in  a  double  boiler.  Dissolve  1  cup 
brown  sugar  in  a  skillet,  stirring  all  the  time ;  when  it  is 
a  liquid,  add  to  the  hot  milk  and  stir  until  dissolved ;  take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  3  dessert 
spoons  of  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  1  cup  cold  milk.  Return 
to  fire  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  After  taking  from  fire 
add  2  teaspoons  vanilla.  Beat  well  and  put  in  molds.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Wessling. 

CORN  STARCH  PUDDING  WITHOUT  MILK. 

To  a  quart  of  boiling  w^ater  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  a 
little  salt.  Beat  separately  the  whites  and  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Dissolve  4  heaping  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Pour  this  into  the  boiling  water,  stir  well  from  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle  and  let  it  boil  thoroughly  for  a  couple 
of  minutes.  Take  from  the  stove  and  add  the  yolks  beating 
hard.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  any  other  flavoring  and 
lastly  the  stiffly  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  into  a 
mould  and  let  cool. 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Townsend. 

SOUR  MILK  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  %.  cup  of 
butter,  2  eggs,  1  level  teaspoon  of  soda  and  1  level  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  1  cup  of  seeded  raisins  or 
1  cup  of  currants.  Thicken  with  dried  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  To  be  eaten  with  or  without 
cream  or  with  any  kind  of  sauce. 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Townsend. 

SPICE  SAUCE. 

To  1  pint  boiling  water  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
flour.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^^  nutmeg,  grated.  Boil  all  to- 
gether and  then  add  1  tablespoon  butter.  This  sauce  is  very 
nice  to  serve  with  apple  dumplings  or  apple  puddings. 

Mrs.  Andrew  Lindsey. 


70  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

CARAMEL  SAUCE. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water.  Melt  sugar  as  for 
custard.  Simmer  10  minutes  after  water  is  added  and  cool 
before  serving. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  C. 

RAISIN  PUFFS. 

Two  eggs,  Yz  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  y^  cup  melted  but- 
ter, (a  small  cup),  1  cup  raisins,  2  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Steam  %  of  an  hour  in  custard  cups 
half  filled.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce  or  any  tart  sauce. 

Mrs.  C.  N.  Stevens. 

FOOD  FOR  THE  GODS. 

One  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  cracker 
crumbs  (rolled,  but  not  powdered),  1  cup  English  walnuts 
chopped,  1  cup  dates,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  salt- 
spoon  salt,  vanilla.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  and  add  last.  Bake 
slowly  in  flat  buttered  pan  25  minutes.  Ice  cream,  or 
whipped  cream  may  be  served  with  this. 

Alice  Patterson  Curl. 

MARSHMALLOW  DESSERT. 

One-half  pint  cream,  whipped,  ^4  lb.  marshmallows  cut 
into  rather  small  pieces,  ^  lb.  chopped  walnuts.  Mix  all 
together,  chill  and  serve  in  small  dishes. 

Mrs.  Charles  M.  Stuart. 

LEMON  CREAM. 

Beat  together  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  sugar. 
Add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  and  2  tablespoons 
of  hot  water.  Simmer  until  it  thickens,  then  remove  from 
fire  and  stir  in  lightly  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stifif 
froth  with  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Set  away  to  chill ;  serve  in 
small  glasses.    Must  be  used  the  same  day  it  is  made. 

Mrs.  S.  F.  Wilson. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  71 

BROWN  BETTY. 

Fill  baking  dish  about  ^  full  of  sliced  apples,  then  take 
dry  bread,  dip  in  cold  water,  squeeze  dry  and  lay  over 
apples  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  or  more;  add  a  little  watei, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  nutmeg  and  generous  pieces  of 
butter.  Bake  until  the  apples  begin  to  brown  a  little  on 
the  bottom  and  the  top  is  crisp ;  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lutkin. 

STEAMED  CHERRY  PUDDING. 

One  cup  thick  sour  milk,  I/2  cup  butter,  3^ cup  sugar,  2 
eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  soda,  flour  enough  to  make 
as  stiff  as  cake.  Add  1  teacup  canned  cherries  without 
juice.  Steam  IJ^  hours.  Sauce:  1  cup  sugar,  5^  cup  but- 
ter, 1  tablespoon  flour;  mix  well  together,  add  Yi  pint 
boiling  water,  3^  cup  cherry  juice.  Any  fruit  may  be  used 
in  place  of  cherries. 

Mrs.  Ira  LeBaron. 


Bowman  Dairy 
Company 

Milk  bottled  in  the  Country 

Pure,  Clean, 
Natural  Milk 

Office,  1922  Ridge  Avenue 
Telephone  380 

Evanston,  111. 


JONES'  CAFE 

A.   L.  JONES,  Proprietor 

Telephone  1605 
611  Davis  Street         -:-         Evanston,  111. 


Frozen  Desserts 


'Then  farezvell  heat,   and  welcome 
frost." 

— Merchant  of  Venice. 


74  FROZEN  DESSERTS 

ORANGE  ICE  CREAM. 

The  juice  of  3  large  oranges  and  1  large  lemon.  1%. 
pints  thin  cream,  1  cup  of  sugar,  dissolved  in  juice,  1  small 
tablespoon  gelatine.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  little  milk,  then 
beat  to  dissolve  and  add  the  cold  cream.  Put  cream  in 
freezer  first  to  get  cold,  then  add  fruit  juice  in  which  sugar 
is  dissolved,  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  James. 

GRAPE  SHERBET. 

Boil  1  lb.  sugar  and  1  qt.  water  together  for  5  minutes. 
When  cold  add  1  pt.  unfermented  grape  juice  and  3  table- 
spoons lemon  juice.  Freeze.  The  mixture  swells  in  freez- 
ing to  about  twice  its  liquid  size. 

Mrs.  D.  R.  Curtiss. 

MARMALADE  ICE  CREAM. 

Put  1  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  adding  }^  cup 
sugar.  When  the  milk  reaches  the  boiling  point,  thicken 
with  one  level  tablespoon  corn  starch  which  has  been  moist- 
ened with  a  little  cold  milk.  Add  ^  teaspoon  salt  and  let 
cook  for  15  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Beat  together 
until  light,  1  egg  and  ^  cup  sugar.  Add  this  to  the  thick- 
ened milk  and  cook  for  about  5  minutes  stirring  constantly. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  let  cool.  When  ready  to  freeze, 
add  1  pint  rich  cream  and  5^  glass  of  "Amber  Marmalade" 
and  you  will  have  a  dish  fit  for  a  king. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  Eiselen. 

FROZEN  STRAWBERRIES. 

Wash  and  pick  over  1  quart  strawberries.  Add  enough 
sugar  to  make  very  sweet.  Put  into  freezer  with  the  un- 
beaten whites  of  3  eggs  and  freeze,  using  3  parts  ice  to  1 
part  salt  as  for  any  ice  cream.  Garnish  with  whipped 
cream  and  whole  berries. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Lukey. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  75 

AIAPLE  SOUFFLE. 

Three-fourths  cup  maple  syrup  and  whites  of  4  eggs. 
Beat  together  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  When  cool  add  one  pint  of  cream  whipped. 
Pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  4  hours. 

Margaretta  S.  N.  Helm. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM. 

One  ounce  chocolate (  more  may  be  used),  1  cup  sugar, 
Yz  teaspoon  salt,  1^4  cup  boiling  water.  Stir  all  together 
over  fire  until  boiling  and  cook  5  minutes.  Stir  1^  level 
teaspoons  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Stir  this  into  hot  mixture  and  boil  6  or  8  minutes. 
Add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  use  hot  or  cold. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  C. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE. 

One  pint  of  cream,  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  maple  syrup.  Boil 
the  syrup  and  pour  slowly  over  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten 
light ;  beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff ;  add  to  them  the  cream,  beat 
all  together,  cool  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  Walter  M.  Pond. 


All  of  the  Country's 
Best  Cooks— 

Mrs.  Mary  J.  Lincoln,  Mrs.  Siarah  Tyson  Rorer,  Mrs. 
Helen  Armstrong,  Marion  Harland,  Lida  Ames  Willis, 
and  a  dozen  others  of  national  reputation — recommend 
Cottolene  in  preference  to  lard  or  any  other  medium 
for  frying  and  shortening. 

Isn't  the  testimony  of  such  experts  worth  something 
to  you? 

COTTOLENE 

means  Food  Purity.  The  woman  who  fries  or  shortens 
her  family's  food  with  lard  is  doing  so  because  she  is 
unaware  of  the  ill  effects  which  may  come.  Lard-cooked 
food  never  has  been,  and  never  can  be,  as  healthful  as 
food  cooked  with  Cottolene.     Here's  why? 

Lard  is  made  from  hog  fat,  and  is  bound  to  be  more 
or  less  indigestible. 

On  the  other  hand  Cottolene  comes  from  the  cotton 
fields  of  the  Sunny  South,  and  is  made  from  the  choic- 
est refined  cotton  oil,  which  physicians  today  recom- 
mend as  being  fully  as  healthful  as  olive  oil. 

Cottolene  is  guaranteed 
— Your  grocer  is  hereby 
authorized  to  refund  your 
money  in  case  you  are  not 
pleased,  after  having  giv- 
en Cottolene  a  fair  test. 

Never  Sold  in  Bulk — 
Cottolene  is  packed  in 
pails  with  an  air-tight  top 
to  keep  it  clean,  fresh  and 
wholesome,  and  prevent  it 
from  catching  dust  and 
absorbing  disagreeable 
odors  such  as  fish,  oil,  etc. 

Order  a  pail  from  your 
grocer  today. 

Made  only  by  The 
N.  K.  Fairbank 
Company. 


Pastrp 


'Oh!  flaky  and  crusty  and  succulent 

pie, 
They  call  you  dyspeptic;  'tis  here- 
sey;  fie!" 


78 PASTRY 

CHOPPED  PIE  CRUST. 

Sift  together  1  quart  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar  and  1 
scant  teaspoon  salt.  Put  in  chopping  bowl  with  lyi  cups 
butter  and  ^  cup  lard,  mixed.  Chopped  all  together  and 
then  with  a  knife  mix  in  slowly  1  cup  cold  water. 

Mrs.  Richard  C.  Hall. 

PIE  CRUST. 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  ^  cup  lard,  %.  cup  butter, 
1  teaspoon  salt.  Cut  shortening  into  flour  with  a  knife,  add- 
ing enough  cold  water  to  bind  ingredients  together.  Handle 
as  little  as  possible.    Roll  thin. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  Champlin. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Boil  together  1  pint  milk,  ^  cup  grated  chocolate  and  % 
cup  sugar ;  stir  in  1  tablespoon  cornstarch  dissolved  in  milk, 
add  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  the 
white  of  one.  Beat  2  whites  to  stiff  froth  and  add  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar.  Bake  pie  crust  first,  pour  in  chocolate 
and  spread  whites  of  eggs  on  top.    Brown  lightly. 

Emma  Ailing  Murdock. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Add  1 
heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  2  lemons  and  a  tumbler  of  water.  Cover  with 
meringue  and  bake.    This  makes  2  pies. 

MERINGUE. 

Beaten  whites  of  6  eggs  and  6  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar. 

M.  Wyckoff. 

PEACH  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Use  dried  peaches.  Soak  over  night,  and  cook  until 
tender.     Pour  off  the  water,  mash  fine  through  a  colander 


PASTRY  79 

adding  sugar  to  taste.  Fill  a  pie  crust  about  Va  inch  thick 
with  the  mixture ;  over  this  pour  to  the  depth  of  V2  inch,  a 
boiled  custard.     Bake.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Mrs.  C.  N.  Stevens. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

One  cup  boiling  milk,  V^  cups  pumpkin  sifted,  1  tea- 
spoon butter,  1/2  cup  (scant)  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  each  of 
salt,  ginger,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  1  &gg.  This  is  the 
amount  necessary  for  one  pie. 

Alice  Hargrave  Crew. 

CREAM  FILLING  FOR  PIE. 

One  pint  of  new  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  >4  cup  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Mix  and 
when  cold  put  in  baked  pie  crust  and  cover  with  white  of 
egg,  beaten  stiff,  to  which  a  little  sugar  has  been  added. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Thompson. 

LEMON  FILLING  FOR  PIE. 

Juice  of  1  lemon  and  a  little  of  the  grated  rind,  yolk  of 
1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  water.  Set  on  stove  and  add  slowly  1  teacup 
boiling  water.  Let  all  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  When  cold 
put  in  baked  pie  crust  and  cover  with  white  of  egg  beaten 
stiff  with  a  little  sugar  added. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Thompson. 

BANBURY  TART. 

Mix  together  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg, 
1  cracker  (rolled),  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon.  Put  about  a  teaspoon  of  the  mixture  on  a  saucer- 
shaped  piece  of  pie  crust  and  fold  as  a  turnover. 

Mrs.  Richard  C.  Hall. 

ENGLISH  APPLE  TART. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  a  rich  pie  crust,  and  fill  with  un- 
cooked sour  apple  sliced  fine.     Cover  with  another  crust 


80 PASTRY 

without  openings  and  bake  until  apple  is  tender.  Remove 
from  oven  and  lift  off  the  upper  crust,  stir  the  apples,  add- 
ing sugar,  nutmeg  and  a  little  butter.  Replace  the  crust, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Pope. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Six  quarts  chopped  apples,  V/i  quarts  chopped  suet  (buy 

1  lb.),  3>4  quarts  chopped  beef   (buy  6  lbs.  from  round), 

2  lbs.  currants,  2  lbs.  raisins,  1  lb.  citron  (half  the  quantity 
of  fruit  can  be  used).  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  table- 
spoon cloves,  2  level  tablespoons  salt,  2  level  tablespoons 
black  pepper.  Boil  the  following:  5  lbs.  coffee  sugar,  1 
quart  vinegar,  ^  quart  water,  2  cups  N.  O.  molasses. 
Pour  hot  over  mincemeat.  Add  1  quart  good  boiled  cider. 
The  above  makes  three  gallons. 

Mrs.  N.  M.  Jones. 

ELDERBERRY  PIE. 

Many  cooks  do  not  know  that  the  common  elderberry 
makes  an  uncommonly  good  pie.  One  large  cup  of  sugar, 
two  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  a  liberal  sprinkling  of 
flour  or  cracker  crumbs  is  needed  for  one  pie.  Bake  with 
two  crusts.  A  large  pinch  of  Tartaric  Acid,  used  instead 
of  the  vinegar,  brings  out  the  flavor,  supplies  the  necessary 
"tart,"  and  gives  to  the  berry  the  hue  of  the  cherry. 

Mrs.  Bentley  Masslich 

JELLY  PIE. 

Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  }i  cup  butter.  Add 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  J^  cup  sweet  cream,  ^  cup  sour  jelly  (such 
as  currant),  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Bake 
the  mixture  in  a  single  crust  and  when  done  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  from  the  2  whites. 

Clara  D.  Manley. 

MINCE  MEAT. 
(By  special  request.) 

Use  bowl  holding  V/^  pints.    Mix  together  the  following: 


PASTRY 81 

3  heaping  bowls  chopped  beef  (from  the  round),  6  heap- 
ing bowls  chopped  apples  (greenings  if  possible),  3  lbs, 
seeded  raisins,  y^  lb.  chopped  suet,  2  bowls  brown  sugar, 
3  large  cups  molasses,  6  tablespoons  cinnamon,  4  table- 
spoons cloves,  3  tablespoons  allspice,  3  nutmegs  grated,  3 
cups  sweet  pickle  juice  (from  green  tomatoes  is  best),  2 
lemons  (juice  and  grated  rind),  2  or  3  teaspoons  salt,  vine- 
gar if  necessary.  Moisten  with  the  liquor  from  the  meat 
and  boil  about  5  minutes. 

Mrs.  Andrew  Lindsey. 

SEEDLESS  GRAPE  PIE. 

Make  a  pie  crust  in  the  usual  manner.  Line  a  pie  tin  and 
bake.  Wash  and  skin  Concord  grapes  and  cook  them  until 
the  skins  are  well  broken.  Put  this  pulp  through  a  sieve 
to  remove  seeds  (save  the  clear  juice  for  grape  juice).  Mix 
the  pulp  with  the  yolks  of  2  well  beaten  eggs,  add  sugar 
to  taste  (about  1  cup).  Fill  the  baked  crust  and  bake  for 
10  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth; 
add  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  spread  over  top  of  pie.  Brown 
this  meringue  in  oven.  One-half  basket  makes  one  deep 
pie. 

Miss  Josephine  Peterson. 


A  Book  of  Unique  Recipes 
For  the  Asking 

This  book  tells  how  you  can  improve   the   best 
meal  prepared  from   splendid  recipes   by   using 

Welch's 

Grape   J^^ice 

How  to  Make  a  Welch  Grape  Punch 

TAKE  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  one  orange, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  WELCH'S 
Grape  Juice,  one  pint  of  water  (plain  or  charged.) 
Pour  over  chunk  of  ice  in  punch  bowl,  and  gar- 
nish with  sliced  fruits. 


This  and  many  other  recipes  for 
delicious  drinks  and  dainty  desserts 
will  be  found  in  a  book  of  recipes 
which  will  be  mailed  for  the  asking 
by  The  Welch  Grape  Juice  Com- 
pany, Westfield,  N.  Y. 

Do  More  Than  Ask  for 
*  *  Grape  Juice ' ' —  Ask  for 
WELCH'S— and  Get  It! 

Your  dealer  will  supply  you  by 
bottle  or  case. 


Cakes  and  Icings 


'What  a  brave  piece  of  cookery" 
— Ben  Johnson. 


84 CAKES   AND   ICINGS 

A  CAKE  WITH  VARIATIONS. 

Cup  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  3^  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  flavoring. 

I.  White  Cake. 

Omit  yolks  of  eggs  in  preceding  recipe — flavor  with  al- 
mond or  vanilla. 

II.  Gold  Cake. 

Omit  whites  of  eggs.     Flavor  with  lemon  or  orange. 

III.  Christmas  Cake. 
Add  to  the  white  cake  recipe  ^  cup  cocoanut,  Yz  cup 
shredded  almonds,  ^  lb.  sliced  citron,  ^  lb.  thinly  sliced 
figs.    Bake  slowly. 

IV.  Nut  Loaf. 
Chop  1  cup  nut  meats  and  add  to  the  cup  cake  recipe. 

V.  Crazy  Cake. 

Divide  white  cake  dough  into  three  parts.  Color  one- 
third  pink  with  red  sugar  or  coloring,  one-third  brown  with 
chocolate  or  spices,  one-third  remaining  white.  Flavor  each 
color  differently  and  bake  like  marble  cake. 

VI.  Chocolate  Loaf. 

Add  to  the  cup  cake  yo  cup  grated  chocolate  dissolved  in 
a  very  little  hot  water.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

VII.  Marble  Cake. 

Make  both  the  gold  and  the  white  cake.  Color  the  gold 
very  dark  with  either  chocolate  or  spices.  Bake  in  layers 
forming  a  ribbon  cake. 

VIII.  Yellow  Watermelon  Cake. 
Stir  up  the  yellow  cake  and  the  white  cake.     Put  raisins 


CAKES    AND    ICINGS 85 

in  the  yellow  part.  Arrange  in  the  pan  with  the  white  on 
bottom  and  around  the  sides  leaving  the  yellow  in  center. 
Put  the  white  on  top  also.  Ice  with  boiled  icing  colored 
green  with  juice  of  pounded  spinach. 

IX.  Sweet  Pea  Cake, 

Make  a  marble  cake  of  white  and  very  delicate  pink 
(made  by  using  pink  sugar  in  mixing).  Ice  with  pink  icing 
sprinkled  with  grated  cocoanut. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Williams. 

SPONGE  GINGERBREAD. 

Into  2  cups  molasses  sift  2  teaspoons  soda,  and  ginger  to 
taste.  Stir  to  a  cream,  then  add  4  well  beaten  eggs,  1  cup 
melted  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk  in  which  1  teaspoon  soda 
has  been  dissolved.  Mix  all  together,  then  add  flour  to  the 
consistency  of  pound  cake.     Bake. 

Miss  Raddin. 

GINGER  BREAD. 
(By  request.) 

To  one  egg  beaten,  add  1  cup  sour  cream  and  1  cup  molas- 
ses, stir  well  and  add  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoon 
ginger  and  1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Add  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder  if  desired.  Stir  well  and  add  1  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  water.  Bake  in  gem  pans  or  square  pans  in  hot 
oven  20  minutes.    This  is  better  baked  in  gem  pans. 

Faith  Williams. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 

Stir  together  to  a  cream  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1 
cup  New  Orleans  molasses  and  1  tablespoon  ginger.  To 
this  add  1  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  then  2  eggs  beaten 
until  very  light,  and  1  teaspoon  soda.  Lastly  add  5  cups 
(or  about  2  coffee  cups)  of  flour  and  beat  hard  for  about 
10  minutes.  Bake  at  once  in  gem  pans.  Served  hot  with 
rich  cream  this  makes  a  delicious  dessert. 

Mrs.  Frank  B.  Dyche. 


86 CAKES  AND   ICINGS 

CHRISTMAS  LOAF. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  1^  cup  sugar,  ^  lb.  seeded 
raisins,  ^  lb.  blanched  almonds,  1  lemon  rind,  2  oz.  citron, 
2  cakes  yeast  foam.  Dissolve  yeast  in  little  warm  water, 
then  add  flour  to  make  sponge,  keep  in  warm  place  for  a 
few  hours,  then  add  milk,  melted  butter,  eggs,  sugar  and 
flour  enough  to  make  into  a  loaf.  Before  quite  stiff  add 
nuts,  raisins,  citron  and  lemon  rind.  Then  let  it  rise  over 
night.     Mould  into  loaves  and  bake  as  bread. 

Clara  A.  Sargent. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  yolks  of  5,  1^  cups  granulated  sugar, 
1  cup  flour,  a  scant  one-third  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  a 
pinch  of  salt  added  to  whites  of  eggs  before  whipping. 
Flavor  to  taste.  Sift,  measure  and  set  aside  flour  and 
sugar.  Beat  yolks  to  a  very  stiff  froth.  Whip  whites  to 
foam  and  add  cream  of  tartar,  whipping  until  very  stiff. 
Add  sugar  to  whites  and  beat  in ;  then  yolks  and  beat  in ; 
then  fold  flour  lightly  through.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  40  minutes.  Much  depends  upon  the  mixing  of  this 
cake. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Ruttan. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  Yz  cup  butter,  Yz  cup  dried  currants,  ^ 
cup  raisins  (or  1  cup  of  either ),  1  cup  apple  sauce,  pinch  of 
salt.  Spices — cinnamon  and  allspice.  2  cups  flour.  Bake 
in  slow  oven  either  as  a  loaf  or  in  small  patty-pans. 


Minnie  R.  Terry. 


BREAD  CAKE. 


One  cup  bread  sponge,  Yz  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons molasses,  2  eggs,  \Yi  even  cups  flour,  1  cup  raisins, 
1    teaspoon   cinnamon,    3^    teaspoon   allspice,    ^    teaspoon 


CAKES    AND    ICINGS 87 

soda,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  The  raisins  and  part  of 
the  spices  may  be  omitted  if  preferred.  Moisten  the  soda 
with  a  Httle  sour  milk  or  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harris. 

ECONOMICAL  SPICE  LOAF. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  1  cup  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  lard,  1  cup 
water,  2  cups  raisins,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon 
nutmeg,  ^  teaspoon  cloves,  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  3  minutes. 
When  cold  add  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water. 
Stir  in  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Lukey. 

SCOTCH  CAKE. 

Three  cups  sifted  flour,  10  eggs,  ^  lb.  butter,  2  cups 
sugar,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  %.  cup  chopped 
citron,  %.  cup  chopped  orange  peel,  Yz  cup  pounded  Eng- 
lish walnuts,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  %.  teaspoon  salt.  Beat 
butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  beating  all  the 
while.  Beat  eggs  without  separating  until  very  light,  add 
gradually  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  beating  the  whole  vigor- 
ously. Add  sifted  flour,  then  vanilla  and  pounded  nuts. 
Add  flavored  fruit  last.  Bake  in  one  large  loaf  in  moder- 
ate oven.     Better  after  being  kept  a  week  or  two. 

Christina  Mackay. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

To  the  whites  of  11  eggs  add  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  beat  very  stiff.  Then  add  V/z  cups 
sifted  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  The  last  thing,  add  1 
cup  flour  sifted  seven  times.  Do  not  beat  any  after  adding 
flour.     Bake  .50  minutes. 

Mrs.  Edgar  Blake. 

MOCK  ANGEL  CAKE. 
Sift  together  7  times:     1  cup  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  %  tea- 


CAKES   AND   ICINGS 


spoon  salt,  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add  1  cup 
milk  heated  to  boiling  point  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat 
thoroughly,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  in  moderate  oven  about  40  min- 
utes.   Ice  when  cold.    Moist  and  delicious. 

Mrs.  D.  R.  Curtiss. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  1^  cups  sugar,  1  cup  boiling 
water  added  slowly,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
^  teaspoon  vanilla.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Stuart. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  1^  cups  sugar,  1  cup  boiling 
sugar,  1  cup  flour,  J4  teaspoon  soda  and  ^  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar  (or  1  teaspoon  baking  powder).  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Terry. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  water.  Sift 
flour,  sugar  and  baking  powder  into  a  bowl  and  add  the 
well  beaten  eggs  and  lastly  the  vinegar  and  water. 

M.  Wyckoflf. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  4  eggs,  whites  beaten  separ- 
ately, 2  cups  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add 
last  %  cup  boiling  water.     Flavor  to  taste.     Delicious. 

Katharine  Howard  Ward. 

FIVE  MINUTE  CAKE. 
Break  whites  of  2  eggs  into  glass  measuring  cup.     Fill 


CAKES    AND    ICINGS 89 

the  cup  to  half -full  with  soft  (not  melted)  butter.  Then 
finish  filling  it  with  milk.  Have  ready  in  your  bowl  1  cup 
granulated  sugar  and  I3/2  cups  sifted  Swansdown  flour,  to 
part  of  which  has  been  added  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Flavor,  and  beat  everything  together  vigorously  for  five 
minutes.  This  is  a  delicious  white  cake  and  can  be  used 
with  a  variety  of  fillings. 

M.  Wyckofif. 

PHILADELPHIA  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  5^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sour 
milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  squares  Baker's  chocolate  dissolved 
in  Yi  cup  hot  water,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  1^  cups 
flour.  Bake  either  in  a  sheet  or  in  two  layers  with  chocolate 
frosting. 


Mrs,  Trelease. 


DEVIL'S  CAKE. 


Cream  two-thirds  cup  butter  and  1^  sups  sugar.  Add 
the  following,  melted  together :  4  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  hot  water,  2  squares  Baker's  choc- 
olate. Then  add  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  Swansdown  flour,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  whites  of  5 
eggs.     Bake  in  layers  and  spread  with  boiled  icing. 

M.  Wyckoflf. 

DEVIL'S  CAKE. 

Custard  part :  One  cup  of  grated  chocolate  (or  one-half 
of  a  bar  of  Baker's  chocolate),  3^2  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup 
brown  sugar,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Stir  to- 
gether in  a  granite  pan  and  cook  slowly  for  5  minutes  or 
less  time.     Set  away  to  cool. 

Cake  part :  One  cup  brown  sugar,  Yz  cup  butter,  2  cups 
flour,  Yi  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs.  Cream  the  butter,  sugar 
and  yolks  of  eggs,  then  add  milk,  sifted  flour  and  whites 
of  eggs  (beaten  stiff).  Beat  all  together  and  stir  in  the 
custard.     Lastly  add  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 


90 CAKES   AND   ICINGS 

warm  water.  This  makes  a  large  loaf  which  keeps  indefin- 
itely. A  more  attractive  cake  can  be  made  by  baking  in 
layers  and  putting  together  with  the  following. 

Filling:  One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  water,  1  tea- 
spoon vinegar.  Boil  until  thick  like  candy  and  then  stir 
in  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  ^  lb.  marshmallows. 
Boil  up  again  and  place  on  cake  after  it  gets  cool. 

Mrs.  F.  M.  Vawter. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  3J^ 
cups  Sawansdown  flour,  whites  of  6  eggs,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  %.  teaspoon  vanlila. 

Lizzie  C.  Johnson. 

ASHLAND  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Put  2  squares  chocolate  in  ^  cup  boiling  water  and  let 
stand  while  mixing  cake.  Mix  ^  cup  butter  and  1  cup  sug- 
ar. Add  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  and  the  chocolate  mixture, 
then  %.  cup  sour  milk  and  1  cup  flour.  Lastly  add  the 
whites  of  the  2  eggs  beaten  stifif.    Bake  in  a  sheet  or  loaf. 

BUTTER  CREAM  ICING  FOR  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

One  and  %  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  2  teaspoons  melted 
butter.  Cream  to  make  paste  to  spread.  Beat  hard  until 
light  and  flaky.  More  sugar  can  be  added  until  right  thick- 
ness to  spread. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  Champlin. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Six  egg  whites,  >4  cup  butter,  1>4  cups  sugar,  >4  cup 
milk,  2  cups  flour,  2^  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mode: 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  a  little  flour  "to  bind."  Add 
milk  and  flour  alternately,  then  egg  whites  thoroughly  beat- 
en and  finally  the  baking  powder.  It  makes  3  large  layers. 
Filling:  Six  egg  yolks,  3/2  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  milk,  }4  cup 


CAKES    AND    ICINGS  91 

chocolate,  sinimer  in  double  boiler  until  smooth. 

Mrs.  S.  J.  Herben. 

DEVIL'S  CAKE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  2>^  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  ^  cup 
sour  milk,  ^^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  boiling  water,  Yz  cake 
chocolate,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  coffee. 
Put  all  together,  then  add  hot  water  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Beat  as  little  as  possible. 

Mrs.  C.  S.  Raddin. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

One  half  cup  butter,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  ^  cup 
sweet  milk,  2  cups  pastry  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  whites  of  3  eggs.  Sift  baking  powder 
and  flour  together  three  times.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar 
then  add  alternately  the  milk,  flour  and  eggs. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Lee. 

FRENCH  DATE  CAKE. 
(By  request.) 

Three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  milk  or  water,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der sifted  with  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  dates  stoned  and  cut,  1 
cup  walnuts  broken  not  chopped,  1  pinch  salt.  Bake  in  a 
thin  sheet  for  10  or  15  minutes. 

Helen  Lindsey. 

STREET  FAIR  CAKE. 

One  cup  molasses,  ^  cup  sugar  (brown  is  best),  Yz 
cup  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
2^  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling 
water,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten  and  added  last.  Bake 
in  layers.  Filling:  Ten  teaspoons  boiling  water,  2  cups 
granulated  sugar.  Boil  until  candied  and  pour  over  the  well 
beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.     Beat  5  minutes  and  add  1  cup 


92 CAKES   AND   ICINGS 

chopped  and  seeded  raisins.     Continue  to  beat  until  cool 
enough  to  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Boot. 

WHITE  NUT  CAKE. 

One  and  one  half  cups  sugar,  ^4  cup  butter,  ^^  cup  milk, 
2^  cups  pastry  flour  sifted  with  3  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Whites  of  8  eggs  beaten  light  and  with  ^  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  1  cup  walnut  meats  cut  in  pieces.  Bake  in 
two  square  pans. 

Mrs.  Gary  G.  Calkins. 

NUT  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  1%  cups  flour 
(pastry  flour),  2^  even  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites 
of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  cup  nut  meats  cut  fine. 

Filling:  One  cup  sugar,  %.  cup  water.  Cook  without 
stirring  only  enough  to  keep  from  burning.  Cook  until, 
when  lifting  the  spoon,  the  syrup  runs  off  and  hairs ;  pour 
slowly  upon  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  beat  until  cool  and 
spread  quickly.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  one  sheet  or 
two  layers. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Sanders. 

COCOANUT  LAYER  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  J^  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour, 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  whites  of  eggs,  vanilla. 


Miss  Kaley. 


COCOANUT  FILLING. 


One  cup  sugar  and  three  tablespoons  water  boiled  with- 
out stirring  until  it  hairs.  Pour  slowly  into  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  1  cup 
cocoanut.  Spread  between  layers  and  on  top,  finishing  tops 
with  sprinkling  of  dry  cocoanut. 


CAKES    AND    ICINGS 93 

CREAM  PIE. 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1^^  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in 
a  little  hot  water,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  one 
and  two-thirds  cups  flour  sifted  together.  Bake  in  flat  pie 
tins.  Cut  open  and  spread  with  the  Cream:  Boil  1  pint 
milk,  then  stir  in  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour 
and  2  eggs.  Boil  a  few  minutes.  Take  off  stove  and  cool. 
Flavor  with  2  teaspoons  lemon  essence. 

Miss  Raddin. 

CREAM  PIES. 

Nearly  a  cup  milk,  ^  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups 
flour,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 
Makes  2  pies. 

Cream :  2  eggs,  2^  cups  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  flour. 
Split  cakes  and  put  cream  inside. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Ridgway. 

ICING  NO.  I. 

To  the  whites  of  2  eggs  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  in 
double  boiler  without  beating.  Add  2  tablespoons  cold 
water  and  1  cup  granulated  sugar.  Have  water  at  boiling 
point  in  lower  boiler  then  set  in  the  upper  part  and  beat 
contents  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  exactly  8  minutes.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  add  any  flavoring  preferred. 

ICING  NO.  2. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1^/2  cups  water,  1  tea- 
spoon vinegar.  Mix  and  put  over  the  fire  in  a  covered  pan. 
Boil  without  stirring  until  it  will  hair.  Pour  slowly  on 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  beating  all  the  time.  Use 
any  flavoring  preferred. 

Mrs.  John  Mahin. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  inch 
squares  of  Baker's  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.    Mix  sug- 


94 CAKES   AND   ICINGS 

ar  and  butter  together.  Dissolve  chocolate  and  add  to  sug- 
ar and  butter.  Then  add  enough  cold  coffee  to  make  it  of 
the  right  consistency  to  spread. 

J.  C.  D. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  FILLING. 

One  square  Baker's  chocolate  melted  with  1  tablespoon 
water,  ^  cup  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  in  a  cup, 
fill  the  cup  with  milk  and  add  to  chocolate,  cooking  until 
creamy.  Spread  thickly  between  layers  leaving  2  table- 
spoons for  top.  To  this  add  very  slowly  powdered  sugar 
until  stiff  enough  for  icing  and  spread  over  the  top  of  the 
cake. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Gascoigne. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  FILLING. 

Dissolve  1  lb.  soft  maple  sugar  in  ^  cup  boiling  water. 
Boil  without  stirring  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon.  Beat 
slowly  into  stiffly  whipped  whites  of  2  eggs.  Chopped  nuts 
may  be  added. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Gascoigne. 

COFFEE  FILLING. 

One  cup  sugar  and  3  tablespoons  strong  coffee  boiled 
without  stirring  until  it  hairs.  Then  pour  slowly  and  beat 
into  stiffly  whipped  whites  of  2  eggs  and  spread.  Add 
chopped  nuts  if  liked. 

MARSHMALLOW  FROSTING. 

Boil  together  1  cup  sugar  and  one-third  cup  water  until 
the  mixture  hairs.  Stir  in  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
a  scant  half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Heat  a  dozen  marshmallows 
and  stir  them  in  last. 

M.  WyckoflP. 

CARAMEL  ICING  FOR  CAKE. 
Two  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  cream,  butter  the  size 


CAKES    AND    ICINGS 95 

of  walnut,  vanilla.    Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water,  then  beat  until  stiff. 

Jennie  Woodworth  Barrett. 

FROSTINGS 

To  give  nice  consistency  to  boiled  frosting,  add  8  or  10 
fresh  marshmallows  while  frosting  is  boiling  hot  and  beat 
until  smooth.     It  will  keep  soft  and  will  not  sink  in  cake. 

For  a  quick  frosting  take  about  two  tablespoons  juice 
from  canned  fruit  and  stir  thick  with  powdered  sugar. 

Clara  D.  Manley. 


THE  ELECTRIC 


WITH  A 


Practical  and  Scientific  Washing   Principle 


Wringing  from 
rinsing  or  liiuing 
water  while  ma- 
chine is  washing 
another  load. 


work;  in  fact  it  makes  washing  on 


It  should  make  little  difference  to  you  as  a  pur- 
chaser whether  a  machine  is  "Electric,"  "water 
n-otoi"  or  whether  it  be  driven  by  gasolene  engine, 
wind  mil!  or  by  hand  if  it  does  n»t  have  a  practical 
washing  principle. 

It  IS  not  rubbing  clothes  that  actually  cleans  them, 

if  It  was  you  could  rub  them  on  a  smooth  surface 

which  would  be  very  much  easier  on  the 

•^  clothes  as  well  as  on  the  person  doing  the 

work.     This  you  know  would  not  get  them 

clean,  but  by  a  slow,  hard,  laborious  rub- 

.  in*  process  over   a   rough   surface   (the 

U      ..  ssh  boardi  a  simple  washing  principle  is 

1      finally  arrived  at,  which  is  getting  water 

'  i't"  the  clothes  and  out  of  the  clothes, 

i.i   the  onig   scientific   and  practical 

ing  principle    and    the    process    bg 

h  clothes  are  cleaned. 

have  the  machine  that  mctuallp 
handles  the  water,  forcing  the  hot 
suds  and  air  into,  around,  through 
mil  through  the  clothes  about  100 
imes  a  minute,  with  much  greater 
iorce  and  with  much  greater  effic- 
iency than  is  possible  to  produce 
on  a  washboard,  this  without  the 
slightest  injury  to  the  most  delicate 
fabrics  and  in  a  fraction  of  the 
time,  and  with  a  fraction  of  hard 
e  of  the  easiest  parts  of  the  housework. 


This  IS  HOW  and  WHY  the  Judd  "MAKES  GOOD" 

Tub  is  made  of  hard  rolled  copper    and   solid  brass,    reinforced;   cannot 
shrink,  warp,  crack,  leak  or  rust  and  is  hygienic  and  aanitarg, 

JUDD  LAUMDRY  MACHINE  COMPANY 


129  North  Wabash  Avenue,  Chicago 

(Opposite  Marshall  Field  &  Co.) 

TELEPHONE  RANDOLPH  4864 


Cookies  and  Small  Cakes 


"Up  from  out  the  baking  cellars, 
Comes  a  whiff  that  makes  a  feller's 

Dreams  awake. 
And  the  next  it  has  him  mumbling 
Of  the  gingers,  brown  and  crumb- 
ling, 

Grandma'd  baked." 


98 COOKIES    AND    SMALL    CAKES 

OLD  ENGLISH  RECIPE  FOR  CRULLERS. 

Two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  3  cups  sugar,  3  well 
beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons 
Dr.  Price's  baking  powder,  3^  grated  nutmeg.  Flour  enough 
to  roll  out.    Fry  in  hot  lard  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  James  B.  Gascoigne. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  large  cup  sugar,  1  cup  thick  sour  milk,  1  level  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  milk,  2  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  2 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  James. 

"ROX." 

One  scant  cup  shortening,  1^^  cups  brown  sugar,  3  eggs 
beaten  separately,  3^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  3  tablespoons  warm  water,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^ 
teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  allspice,  1  cup  each  of  chopped 
English  walnuts  and  raisins  (or  dates.)  Cream  butter, 
sugar  and  yolks;  add  spices,  flour  and  fruit,  whites  last. 
Drop  in  teaspoonfuls  on  well  greased  tins. 

Clara  D.  Manley. 

GINGER  DROPS. 

One  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  molasses,  >4  cup  butter, 
3^  cup  of  cold  water,  2>4  cups  flour — or  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  dough,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  of  cinnamon.  Drop  on 
greased  tins,  leave  room  to  spread  while  baking. 

Mrs.  George  B.  Reynolds. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

One  half  pint  molasses,  %  lb.  sugar,  %.  lb.  butter,  1}^ 
pints  flour,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves 
and  cinnamon,  >^  teaspoon  soda. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Ridgway. 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 99 

GINGER  DROPS. 

One  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  molasses,  3^  cup  butter, 
^  cup  cold  water,  2)^  cups  flour  or  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  dough,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Drop 
on  greased  tins,  leaving  room  to  spread. 

Mrs.  George  B.  Reynolds. 

KLENETTER. 
(Swedish  Christmas  Cookies.) 

One-half  cup  yolks  of  eggs,  ^  cup  cream,  ^4  cup  of 
white  sugar,  grated  rind  of  3  lemons  and  enough  flour  to 
roll  out  thin.  Cut  out  with  a  j  agger  into  fancy  shapes  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

Elin  Nilson. 

CHRISTMAS  COOKIES. 

One  lb.  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  lb.  sugar,  ^2 
lb,  butter,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  rind  of  3^  lemon. 
Mix  butter  with  flour  and  baking  powder.  Stir  eggs  with 
sugar,  add  all  ingredients  and  knead  well.  Put  dough 
in  a  cool  place  and  let  stand  over  night.  It  may  stand  a 
few  days  even  without  harm.  Roll  out  as  for  cookies 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven.     Grease  pans  with  parafiin. 

Clara  A.  Sargent. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 

One  cup  lard,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  6  teaspoons  sweet 
milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  cups  oatmeal,  1  cup  raisins  or  nuts 
chopped,  1  teaspoon  soda,  and  salt. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Eddy. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  2  cups  oatmeal,  2  eggs,  ^  cup  shorten- 
ing, 2  cups  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  a 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  teaspoon  of  hot  water.  Cut 
and  bake  carefully. 

Mrs.  U.  S.  Grant. 


100 COOKIES    AND    SMALL    CAKES 

OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  Yz  cup  butter,  ^  cup  lard,  2  cups  oatmeal 
\y2  cups  flour,  XYz  cups  raisins,  3  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  soda, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  vingear.  Drop  from 
teaspoon  into  well  greased  pan  leaving  room  to  spread. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Williams. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  English  walnuts  broken 
small,  Yz  cup  raisins  cut  in  two,  Yz  cup  melted  butter,  Yz 
cup  sweet  milk,  2  squares  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  egg, 
lY  cups  flour.  Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  ^gg,  flour, 
milk,  soda,  melted  chocolate  and  lastly  nuts  and  raisins. 
Drop  from  spoon  on  buttered  tins.  When  baked,  cover 
each  with  chocolate  frosting  made  as  follows :  Three- 
fourths  cup  sugar,  Y\  cup  grated  chocolate,  3  tablespoons 
cream,  1  teaspoon  butter,  2  eggs.  Cook  the  above  mixture 
over  boiling  water  till  glossy,  then  beat  well. 

Mrs.  D.  A.  Hayes. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff,  ^  lb.  powdered  sugar,  Y^- 
lb.  chopped  nuts,  2  squares  Baker's  chocolate,  flour  to  thick- 
en.    Drop  on  greased  tins  by  spoonfuls. 

Mrs.  Trelease. 

TEA  CAKES. 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  1^ 
cups  flour,  1  large  teaspoon  baking  powder,  Y^  cup  currants, 
vanilla. 

Miss  Grace  Ericson. 

PHEBE  CAKES. 

Two  cups  molasses,  Y'^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  lard,  2  eggs, 
6  tablespoons  vinegar,  4  teaspoons  soda,  5^  cups  pastry 
flour,  1  teaspoon  each  ginger  and  cloves.     Melt  butter  and 


COOKIES   AND   SMALL   CAKES 101 

lard,  add  molasses,  then  vinegar,  then  soda  dissolved  in 
warm  water.  Add  eggs  well  beaten,  then  flour  which  has 
been  mixed  with  spices.     Bake  as  drop  cakes. 

Mrs.  Gary  G.  Calkins. 

LACE  CAKES. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  2j^  cups  rolled  oats,  2  teaspoons 
of  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  together,  drop  a  teaspoon- 
ful  for  each  cake,  abut  2  inches  apart  on  greased  tins.  Bake 
in  hot  oven,  watch  closely,  take  out  when  a  light  brown. 
Remove  from  tins  while  still  warm  by  running  a  thin  knife 
under  the  cakes. 

Mrs.  E.  Huntington. 

SPONGE  DROPS. 

Beat  3  eggs  to  a  froth  and  add  1  teacup  sugar;  stir  into 
this  1  heaping  cofifee  cup  flour,  into  which  1^^  teaspoons 
lemon.  Drop  in  teaspoonfuls  about  3  inches  apart  on  thin 
baking  powder  have  been  thoroughly  mixed.  Flavor  with 
buttered  sheets.  Bake  in  a  very  quick  oven.  Watch  them 
closely  as  they  burn  easily. 

Mrs.  T.  P.  Frost. 

CURRANT  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  ^  cup  sweet 
milk.  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves  and  ^  nut- 
meg.. 1  cup  floured  currants  and  flour  enough  to  roll. 
Place  in  ice  box  at  least  an  hour  before  rolling  out. 

Jennie  Woodworth  Barrett. 

HERMIT  CAKES. 

Two  eggs.  2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  cup  English  currants,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  mixed 
spices  (cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.)  Mix  as  soft  as 
possible  with  just  flour  enough  to  roll.     Sprinkle  with  gran- 


102 COOKIES    AND    SMALL    CAKES 

ulated  sugar  and  roll  lightly  in.     Cut  in  rounds  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.     These  will  keep  for  months  if  locked  up. 

Mrs.  Olive  E.  Baker. 

HERMITS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  butter  and 
Yz  cup  shortening  (or  1  cup  butter),  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1 
cup  seedless  raisins,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  teaspoon  soda 
in  ^  cup  boiling  water,  3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harris. 

SOFT  COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  J/^  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  ^  cup  milk,  1^ 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Put  all  together  with  2  cups 
flour  and  beat  well. 

C.   E.   McCabe. 

PECAN  WAFERS. 

Four  eggs  beaten  well  together,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  6 
heaping  tablespoons  flour  sifted  3  times,  J^  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  2  cups  chopped  pecans.  Drop 
from  teaspoon  and  bake  6  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Elizabeth  Bragdon. 

RICH  COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately,  1  tablespoon  cream,  1  even  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder.  Flour  enough  to  roll  out  very  thin.  Dip  soft 
brush  or  tissue  paper  into  the  white  of  an  tgg  beaten  a  little, 
rub  over  tops  of  cookies,  dredge  lightly  with  granulated 
sugar  before  baking. 

Mrs.  Alfred  L.  Lindsey. 

ORANGE  WAFERS. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  orange 
juice,  2  tablespoons  grated  orange  rind,  1  teaspoon  baking 


COOKIES  AND   SMALL   CAKES 103 

powder,  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.     Roll  thin 
and  cut  small. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Stuart. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

One  cup  hot  water,  ys  cup  butter,  1  cup  flour,  3  unbeat- 
en eggs.  Boil  water  and  butter  together ;  slowly  sift  the 
flour  in ;  cool  and  when  luke  warm  stir  in  the  unbeaten  eggs 
one  at  a  time.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  pans  and  bake 
slowly  for  thirty  minutes.  When  cold  fill  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harris. 

CHARITY  CAKES. 

One  pound  of  flour,  5  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  lb.  sugar, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  grated  orange  peel,  1  grated 
lemon  peel,  1  lb.  each  of  seeded  raisins  and  almonds,  3^ 
lb.  chopped  citron.  Flavor  with  cloves  and  cinnamon. 
Drop  on  buttered  paper  and  bake. 

Louise  E.  Whitehead. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  GINGER  COOKIES. 

One  cup  hot  water,  3  teaspoons  soda,  1  cup  lard,  cotto- 
lene  or  bacon  fat,  3  cups  New  Orleans  molasses,  3  tea- 
spoons ginger  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  pastry  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick ;  cut,  and  bake  in  very  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Gascoigne. 


The  best  ingredients  assure  the  best 
cooking.     Pure — Rich — Sweet. 

Carnation  Milk. 


Sterilized  Evaporated 

Adds  delicacy  to  everything  cooked  with  it. 
excellency  by  this   recipe: 


Prove  its 


Cream  Biscuit 

Put  1  quart  sifted  flour  into  a  bowl; 
add  to  it  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter or  lard;  rub  well  together  with  the 
hands  until  the  flour  is  thoroughly 
greased;  add  2  heaping  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  salt,  six  tablespoons  Car- 
nation Milk,  seven  tablespoons  water,  or 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough;  mix  and 
knead  quickly,  roll  out  about  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 


Carnation      Milk      is      un- 
equaled     in     flavor     and 
purity — best     for     table — 
best    for    cooking.      It    is 
twice   as   rich   as   ordinary 
milk — immeasurably    clean- 
er    and     purer.     Just    try 
it  and  you'll  use  it  always. 

"Baby"  Can  5c 
Tall  Can  10c 

Your  Grocer 


SfoSSi    will  send  it. 


Bread  and  Breakfast  Cakes 


'  'You  must  rise,'  said  the  leaven 
7  can't/  said  the  dough; 
'Just  examine  me,  please, 
And  you'll  find  it's  no  go.' 
'  'You  must,'  the  tormentor  insists, 
'It's  all  right' ; 

You  must  rise  zvhen  I  tell  you. 
And  ivhat's  more,  be  light.' " 

— James  Russell  Lowell. 


106 BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 

SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

Many  think  that  salt-rising  bread  is  a  lost  art  or  too  slow 
a  process,  with  too  much  uncertainty  as  to  results,  for  the 
modern  housewife  to  undertake.  By  nine  o'clock  (if  you 
can  rise  at  six)  you  can  have  three  loaves  of  sweet  delicious 
bread  baked  which  will  be  the  envy  of  all  your  friends,  if 
you  will  follow  these  directions.  Pour  boiling  sweet  milk 
on  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  corn-meal  and  stir  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Set  this,  snugly  covered,  in  a  real  warm  place  over 
night.  The  next  morning  this  should  be  swelled  up  light. 
Heat  half  a  coffee  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  cool  to  a  warm 
temperature  (not  scalding)  with  a  coffee  cup  of  water. 
Into  this  stir  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  soda,  a  level  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  the  light  meal  and  flour  for  a  smooth 
batter.  Set  this  in  warm  water,  covered,  till  it  foams  up 
twice  as  light  as  first  quantity.  Next,  in  a  deep  pan  or 
bowl,  put  a  coffee  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  pint  of  warm  water, 
the  light  sponge  and  flour  to  make  a  smooth  stiff  batter. 
Sift  over  this  an  inch  of  flour.  Set  container  in  warm 
water  all  snugly  covered,  and  when  the  sponge  breaks 
through  all  over  and  at  the  edges,  sift  a  pile  of  flour  on 
the  moulding  board  and  pour  out  on  it  the  light  sponge, 
catching  it  up  and  kneading  it  into  a  soft  mass.  Make  into 
three  loaves  and  put  into  greased  pans  allowing  about  an 
inch  for  rising.  Grease  top  of  loaves  with  butter.  When 
level  with  the  pan  sides,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  forty  min- 
utes and  cool  in  cold  or  cool  air.  This  will  be  the  most  de- 
licious bread  you  ever  tasted. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Haile. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD. 

Three  and  a  half  cups  of  luke  warm  water,  one  cake 
compressed  yeast,  one  large  tablespoon  shortening,  one  lev- 
el tablespoon  salt,  one  level  tablespoon  sugar,  9  cups  whole 
wheat  flour.  Mix  in  a  batter  with  half  the  flour  at  night 
and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  Early  next  morning  knead 
to  a  stiff  dough,  set  to  rise  until  twice  the  original  size, 
make  into  loaves  and  set  to  rise  to  double  their  size.    Rub 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 107 

loaves  with  melted  butter,  bake  1  hour  in  moderate  oven 
then  turn  on  sides  to  cool. 

Mrs.  Olive  E.  Baker. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Make  a  sponge  of  ^  yeast  cake,  1  teaspoon  sugar.  2 
cups  warm  water,  and  white  flour.  When  light  add  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  Yi  teaspoon  baking  soda,  ^  cup  molasses,  and 
graham  flour  (sifted)  to  make  a  dough-— not  so  stiff  as 
ordinary  bread  dough.  Put  in  greased  and  floured  bread- 
tin  and  bake  in  slow  oven  Y\  of  an  hour  or  more. 

H.  C.  Crew. 

OATMEAL  BREAD. 

One  cup  Quaker  Oats,  3^  cup  molasses,  ^  cup  boiling 
water,  1  large  spoon  lard.  Mix  together  at  noon  and 
cover.  At  9  o'clock  stir  in  1  cake  yeast  soaked  in  a  cup 
water,  add  1  teaspoon  salt  and  flour  to  make  stiff  enough 
to  work.  Cover  till  morning,  make  into  loaves,  let  rise  to 
double  the  size.     Bake  1  hour. 

Mrs.  M.  D.  Gloss. 

OATMEAL  BREAD. 

Scald  1  cup  rolled  oats  with  2  cups  water  and  1  teaspoon 
lard.  When  cool  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  qt.  flour,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  Yi  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  Yz  cup  warm 
water.  In  winter  let  rise  over  night.  In  summer  it  is  best 
to  set  the  sponge  in  the  morning.  Add  2  cups  flour.  ^ 
cup  (or  more)  of  chopped  walnuts.  Put  into  pans  and  let 
rise  to  double  the  size.  Bake  45  minutes.  Use  quick  oven 
at  first,  then  slow.  This  makes  2  good  sized  loaves.  Do 
not  knead  unless  there  seems  to  be  difficulty  in  using  all 
the  flour. 

Miss  Jane  Scott. 

BRAN  BREAD. 

Four  cups  bran  flour,  2  cups  white  flour,  ^^  teaspoon  salt, 
2  rounded  teaspoons  soda,  2  eggs  beaten  light,  2  cups  butter 
milk  or  sour  milk,  6  tablespoons  molasses,  ^  package  seed- 


108 BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 

ed  raisins.  Mix  well  with  hand  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
about  1  hour.  Easy  to  make,  good  to  eat,  and  very  effica- 
cious. 

Mrs.  Carrie  W.  Raymond. 

BRAN  BREAD. 

Two  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  1^ 
cups  sweet  milk,  1  cup  graham  flour,  1  heaping  tablespoon 
baking  powder,  2  cups  wheat  bran.  Bake  30  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Wessling. 

NUT  BREAD. 

Scald  1  cup  oatmeal  in  2  cups  boiling  water  and  1  round- 
ed tablespoon  lard.  When  cool  add  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2 
even  cups  flour,  1  even  teaspoon  salt,  and  ^^  cake  com- 
pressed yeast  dissolved  in  a  cup  warm  water.  Set  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  1  even  cup  walnuts,  chopped 
not  too  fine,  and  also  enough  flour  to  keep  from  sticking 
to  the  board  when  you  knead  it.  Let  it  rise  in  pans  to  the 
top.     Bake  45  minutes  in  an  oven  at  first  quick,  then  slow. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Fanning. 

NUT  BREAD. 

Three  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  sug- 
ar, 1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts.  Mix  well.  Add 
1^  cups  milk,  1  egg.  Let  stand  in  bread  pan  20  minutes. 
Bake  1  hour  like  bread. 

Mrs.  D.  A.  Hayes. 

NUT  BREAD. 

One  half  cup  nuts,  1  cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  1  cup 
molasses  with  ^/^  teaspoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  j/z 
teaspoon  ginger,  3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1  egg  beaten 
into  the  melted  butter,  1  cup  milk.    Steam  for  2  hours. 

Ella  Dahl  Rich. 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 109 

RAISIN  AND  NUT  BREAD. 

Two  cups  graham  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
Yz  cup  molasses,  >^  cup  raisins,  1  cup  English  walnuts,  1 
teaspoon  salt.  Pour  in  greased  baking  powder  cans,  steam 
an  hour  and  a  half,  remove  cover  and  bake  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Long. 

CURRANT  BREAD. 

One  egg,  Yi  cup  sugar,  1  pint  milk,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1 
cup  currants,  1  quart  flour,  3  level  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Mode :  Beat  ^gg  yolk  with  sugar.  Add  a  little  flour 
"to  bind,"  then  salt,  milk,  flour,  currants  and  baking  pow- 
der in  order  given.  Let  stand  Yi  hour.  Makes  1  large 
loaf  or  2  small. 

Mrs.  S.  J.  Herben. 

NEW  ORLEANS  CORN  BREAD. 

Cream  together  1  generous  tablespoon  butter  and  Yi  cup 
sugar,  beat  in  2  eggs  without  separating.  Dissolve  1  level 
teaspoon  baking  soda  in  a  little  warm  water,  then  add  to  1 
pint  of  sour  milk  and  stir  into  butter,  sugar  and  eggs.  Now 
add  2  cups  flour  (level)  and  1  cup  cornmeal  sifted  together, 
beating  the  whole  very  vigorously.  Bake  in  a  loaf  or  sheet 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Wilson. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  heaping  pint  graham  flour,  1  small  pint  yellow  corn 
meal,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
\Ya  pints  sour  milk,  1  small  half  pint  molasses.  Makes  2 
loaves.     Steam  three  hours,  then  bake  20  minutes. 

Elizabeth  Bragdon. 

FINGER  ROLLS. 

Sift  together  2  cups  flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder.     Rub  into  this  1  teaspoon  butter, 


110     BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 

add  water  to  make  a  soft  dough,  form  rolls  the  shape  of 
fingers  and  bake  in  finger-roll  pans  in  hot  oven  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  T.  P.  Frost. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS  THAT  NEVER  GO 
WRONG. 

One  quart  flour,  8  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  level 
teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  shortening — butter  or  lard  or 
one  of  each — milk  or  milk  and  water,  to  make  stiff  dough. 
Sift  together  baking  powder  and  flour.  When  the  dough 
is  mixed,  knead  until  smooth.  Roll  3^  inch  thick  and  cut 
out.  This  makes  18  biscats  or  24  biskittens.  Bake  about 
15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

H.  C.  Crew. 

CHELSEA  BISCUIT. 

Sift  together  3  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
Yz  teaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  sugar.  Add  3  tablespoons 
lard.  Rub  together  and  add  1  egg  well  beaten  and  milk 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  to  about  ^  of  an 
inch  thick.  Cream  2  tablespoons  butter  and  spread  over 
dough ;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon ;  roll  carefully 
from  you.  Cut  in  slices  Yi  inch  thick.  Place  close  together 
in  baking  dish.    Bake  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  Holgate. 

SWEET  BISCUIT. 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  sour  cream,  )A,  cup  sour  milk, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  Yz  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  very  soft,  mould 
and  cut  into  biscuit. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harris. 

PIN-WHEEL  BISCUIT. 

Two  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  3^  teaspoon 
salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  Y,  cup  milk, 
Yz  cup  raisins  (finely  chopped).  2  tablespoons  citron, 
(finely  chopped),  cinnamon.  Mix  and  roll  to  Ya  inch  thick- 
ness, except  fruit,  sugar  and  cinnamon  which  must  be 
sprinkled  over  the  rolled-out  dough.     Roll  like  a  jelly  roll, 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 111 

cut  off  pieces  }i  inch  thick.     Place  on  buttered  tins  and 
bake  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Long. 

SODA  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons 
cream  of  tartar  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
rub  in  2  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  suet  melted  together 
with  1  pint  of  sweet  milk.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 


A.  R.  Vawter. 


JOHNNY  CAKE. 


A  favorite  recipe  at  Bois  Blanc  Island,  Straits  of  Mack- 
inac. One  cup  sugar,  1^  cups  sour  milk,  ^  cup  butter, 
J4  teaspoon  salt,  ^4  teaspoon  ginger,  2  eggs,  1  cup  white 
flour,  2  cups  yellow  corn  meal,  1  even  teaspoon  soda.  If 
sweet  milk  is  used,  omit  the  soda  and  substitute  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder. 

Ruth  S.  Atwell. 

MUFFINS. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  eggs.  Add 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  to 
make  stiff  batter.     Bake  twenty  minutes  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Cleveland. 

BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS. 

One-third  cup  butter,  %  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg,  }i  cup 
milk,  2  cups  flour,  4  even  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup 
fresh  blueberries.  Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually, 
then  alternately  the  egg  beaten  and  mixed  with  the  milk, 
and  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder.  Stir  in  the 
berries  lightly  and  bake  in  hot  pans  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Fanning. 


112 BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 

BRAN   MUFFINS. 

Two  cups  bran,  1  cup  flour,  1^/2  cups  sour  milk,  3  table- 
spoons N,  O.  molasses,  ^  teaspoon  soda. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Ridgway. 

DATE  MUFFINS. 

One-third  cup  of  butter,  54  cup  sugar,  creamed,  1  egg 
well  beaten,  ^4  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  sifted,  2  full  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  little  salt,  1  lb.  dates  washed  and 
cut  in  pieces.     Bake  in  gem  tins. 

Mrs.   Carl  Williams. 

CORN   MEAL   MUFFINS. 

One  cup  yellow  corn  meal,  ^  cup  white  flour,  1  cup  sour 
milk,  Yz  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  ^  cup  sugar, 
1   ^gg,  pinch  salt. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Sanders. 

CORN  GEMS. 

One  tgg,  \y2  cups  sour  milk,  1  cup  corn  meal,  1  cup 
flour,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  butter  or  cotto- 
lene  the  size  of  an  egg,  small  teaspoon  soda.  If  sour  cream 
is  used  instead  of  milk,  butter  may  be  omitted.  These  may 
be  successfully  made  with  sweet  milk  and  1}^  teaspoons 
baking  powder.    Bake  in  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  Curme. 

RICE  GEMS. 

One  cup  warm  boiled  rice,  ^^  teaspoon  salt,  yolks  of  2 
eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Add  alter- 
nately 1  cup  sweet  milk  and  1^  cups  flour,  then  cut  and 
fold  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs  well  beaten  and  dry.  Bake  in 
hot,  well  greased  gem  pans  from  20  to  30  minutes  in  toler- 
ably hot  oven. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Thompson. 

HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE. 
One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  i/^  cup  milk,  1  egg,  1^ 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES   113 

teaspoons  baking  powder,   1^  cups  flour,  2  cups  huckle- 
berries. 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Kean. 

WAFFLES. 

One  pint  milk,  3  eggs  beaten  very  light,  1  teaspoon  melt- 
ed butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter. 

Mrs.  T.  P.  Frost. 

POPOVERS. 

Two  eggs,  Yz  pint  milk,  1  pint  flour.  Makes  12.  Mode : 
Beat  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together.  Add  milk  and  pour 
slowly  on  the  flour,  stirring  constantly.  When  perfectly 
smooth  pour  into  piping  hot  muffin  irons,  greased.  Bake 
Yz  hour  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  S.  J.  Herben. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Two  eggs,  well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  salt  to  taste, 
1  pint  sweet  milk,  2  pints  flour  (after  sifting),  ^  cup  but- 
ter and  lard  (melted),  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  shallow  tin  and  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Williams. 

FLANNEL  CAKES. 

Make  a  fairly  rich  baking  powder  biscuit  dough.  Rolf 
out  thin  in  a  rectangular  sheet.  Fold  over  once  and  then 
again.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  into  2^  inch  squares  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  This  recipe  was  brought  from  Ireland 
by  my  mother  and  we  children  always  considered  them 
very  superior  to  the  ordinary  baking  powder  biscuit. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Scott. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  cups  sour  milk.  1  cup  sweet  milk,  ^  cup  molasses, 
3  cups  yellow  cornmeal,  1  cup  wheat  flour,  i4  cup  English 


114 BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 

currants,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  soda.  Mix  well  and 
put  in  well  greased  Boston  brown  bread  tins,  or  baking 
powder  cans,  each  7^  full ;  steam  2^  hours ;  then  put  in 
hot  oven  for  five  minutes  before  taking  out  of  tins. 

Mrs.  Peter  F.  Jensen. 

POTATO  ROLLS. 

Two  cups  scalded  milk,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  mashed  potato, 
Yz  cup  lard,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  salt,  1  cake  yeast  dissolved 
in  Yz  cup  warm  water.  Mix  and  let  rise  2  hours;  then 
make  into  a  stifif  dough  by  adding  about  1  quart  of  flour.  Let 
rise  2  hours  more ;  knead,  shape  into  rolls,  put  in  pans  and 
let  rise  2  hours  before  baking.  These  are  delicious  made 
into  small  Parker  House  rolls  and  baked  quickly. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Price. 


CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

When  making  white  bread,  leave  2  cups  of  dough  in  the 
bread  bowl;  beat  into  this  Yz  cup  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of 
chopped  raisins  or  currants,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
1  large  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Beat  thoroughly.  Drop 
from  a  spoon  into  greased  muffin  tins,  filling  them  half  full. 
Let  rise  one  hour,  or  until  light.    Bake  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  George  A.  Foster. 

SCOTCH  SHORT  BREAD. 

One-half  pound  butter,  4>4  oz.  sugar,  1  lb.  flour.  Chop 
the  flour  and  butter  together,  knead  in  the  sugar,  roll  into 
a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  in  shapes.  Bake  upon 
buttered  paper  in  a  shallow  tin  until  crisp  and  of  a  delicate 
yellowish  brown. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  Coverly. 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 115 

SCOTCH  SCONES. 

Three  cups  flour,  2  even  teaspoons  each  of  baking  pow- 
der and  sugar,  small  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  each  of  but- 
ter and  lard,  milk  to  make  a  batter.  Rub  the  butter  and 
lard  into  the  flour  and  mix  all  with  the  milk.  Roll  out  on 
board,  cut  any  desired  shape  and  bake  on  griddle. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  Coverly. 


We 
Evanston  Index  Co. 


The  House  of 

IDEAS 


P 


RINTERS  and 

UBLISHERS 


Originators  and  Designers 

of 

High  Grade  Typography 


881 


EVANSTON,  ILLINOIS 


Pickles  and  Preserves 


'We  eat  zvhat  we  can;  and  what  we 
can't  eat,  zve  can." 


118 PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES 

DUNDEE  MARMALADE. 

Wash  thoroughly  12  oranges  and  6  lemons..  With  a 
sharp  knife  cut  each  crosswise  in  the  thinnest  flakes  pos- 
sible. (Do  not  use  end  pieces.)  Pick  out  the  seeds,  put 
them  in  a  bowl  and  cover  with  a  pint  of  warm  water.  Pour 
5  quarts  of  cold  water  over  the  sliced  fruit  and  let  every- 
thing soak  for  thirty-six  hours.  Then  put  the  sliced  fruit 
and  water  into  a  preserving  kettle,  also  the  water  which 
has  been  drained  off  the  seeds,  and  allow  all  to  simmer 
for  two  hours.  Now  add  10  lbs.  of  sugar,  which  has  been 
warmed  in  the  oven,  and  boil  until  the  preserve  jellies, 
which  ought  to  be  in  an  hour  or  so.  Pour  the  marmalade 
into  jelly  glasses  and  seal.  This  marmalade,  if  properly 
made,  will  be  like  an  amber  jelly. 

Mrs.  J.  McCallum. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Slice  very  thin,  rind  and  all,  twelve  good  flavored,  medi- 
um sized  navel  oranges  and  four  lemons.  Cover  with  four 
quarts  water  and  let  stand  for  30  hours.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  boil  for  two  hours;  then  add  8  lbs.  sugar.  Boil 
an  hour  longer  and  put  in  glasses.  This  is  delicious  and 
has  no  bitter  taste. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Lukey. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

One  dozen  good  sized  oranges,  3  lemons,  pulp  and  juice 
of  1  grape  fruit,  8  lbs.  sugar.  9  teacups  water.  Shave  oranges 
and  lemons  as  thin  as  possible,  add  grape  fruit  and  water, 
leave  over  night  in  enameled  kettle.  Boil  2  hours  or  until 
the  rind  is  very  soft.  (It  hardens  a  little  after  sugar  is 
added.)  Add  sugar  and  boil  1  hour,  turn  into  glasses,  leave 
uncovered  until  next  day. 

Mrs.  Fulcher. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Four  oranges,  2  lemons  cut  in  thin  slices.  To  1  pint  of 
this  mixture  add  1^  pints  cold  water.     Boil  30  minutes. 


PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES 119 

Let  stand  over  night  and  in  the  morning  add  1^^  lbs.  sug- 
ar to  each  pint.    Boil  40  minutes  and  pour  into  glasses. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Price. 

AMBER  MARMALADE. 

Shave  1  orange,  1  lemon  and  1  grapefruit  very  thin  re- 
jecting nothing  but  seeds  and  fiber;  measure  fruit  and  add 
to  it  three  times  the  quantity  of  water.  Let  stand  over 
night  in  an  earthen  dish  and  next  morning  boil  for  ten 
minutes  only.  Stand  another  night  and  second  morning 
add  pint  for  pint  of  sugar  and  boil  steadily  till  it  jellies. 
This  rule  is  supposed  to  make  12  glasses.  The  product 
should  have  a  limpid  appearance,  the  strips  of  fruit  being 
well  defined  in  a  clear  pale  jelly.  To  this  end  stir  as  little 
as  possible  during  required  cooking. 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Kean. 

RHUBARB  AND  ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Three  large  oranges.  18  medium  stalks  rhubarb.  Slice 
oranges  very  fine  and  rhubarb  in  ^^  in.  pieces  without  re- 
moving skins.  Mix,  measure,  and  add  equal  amount  of 
sugar.  Mix  thoroughly  and  let  stand  3  or  4  hours  or  over 
night.  Then  boil  rapidly  until  a  little  on  ice  will  thicken 
like  jelly. 

Jennie  Woodworth  Barrett. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  MARMALADE. 

Six  oranges,  3  grape  fruit,  3  lemons.  Extract  the  juice 
and  pulp,  rejecting  all  seeds  and  pith.  Put  rind  through 
meat  chopper.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  4  quarts  water 
and  put  in  a  cool  place  until  morning.  Then  put  into  a  pre- 
serving kettle  and  cook  until  rind  is  transparent,  (about 
2  hours.)  Add  10^^  lbs.  granulated  sugar,  and  cook  until 
jellied  or  until  mixture  will  hold  up  rind.  Put  into  jelly 
glasses.     When  a  day  or  two  old,  cover  with  paraffine. 

Mrs.  Sherman  Kingsley. 
PLUM  CONSERVE. 
Six  lbs.  blue  plums,  after  removing  pits  and  quartering, 


120 PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES 

4  lbs.  granulated  sugar,  2  lbs.  seeded  raisins,  ^  lb.  English 
walnuts,  5  oranges,  juice  of  1.  Boil  rind  of  the  five  until 
tender  and  chop  fine.  Mix  the  ingredients  and  boil  20  min- 
utes, no  longer.    Add  nuts  just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  McKee. 

CURRANT  CONSERVE. 

Five  pints  currant  juice,  5  pints  sugar,  1^^  lbs.  raisins, 
juice  of  4  oranges  and  the  peel  chopped  fine,  juice  of  1 
lemon  and  peel  chopped  fine.  Boil  slowly  40  minutes,  and 
fill  jelly  tumblers. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  E.  Dorion. 

GRAPE  CONSERVE. 

Five  lbs.  grapes,  3  large  oranges,  cut  in  small  pieces,  1 
cup  chopped  English  walnuts,  1  lb.  raisins,  4  lbs.  sugar. 
Pulp  the  grapes.  Cook  them  until  soft  and  press  through 
colander  to  remove  seeds.  Add  other  ingredients  and 
boil  20  to  25  minutes. 

Caroline  Spalding. 

PINEAPPLE   CONSERVE. 

Three  pineapples,  4  boxes  strawberries,  5  lbs.  sugar. 
Put  pared  pineapples  through  meat  grinder,  add  to  berries 
and  sugar.     Cook  till  stifif  as  jelly  and  seal  while  hot. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Williams. 

PRESERVED  GRAPES. 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  large  basket  of  grapes.  Separ- 
ate pulp  from  skins  and  cook  in  its  own  juice  until  free 
from  seeds,  then  strain.  Cover  the  skins  with  water  and 
cook.  When  they  are  nearly  dry  add  strained  pulp  juice 
and  two-thirds  as  much  sugar  as  grape  mixture.  Boil 
twenty  minutes  and  turn  into  jars. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  E.  Dorion. 

TOMATO  PRESERVES. 
Use  small,  pear  shaped,  yellow  tomatoes.     Scald  and  re- 


PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES 121 

move  skins.  To  each  pound  of  totnatoes  add  1  pound  of 
sugar.  Let  them  stand  over  night.  Pour  off  juice,  cook  it 
down  to  a  rich  syrup,  and  add  2  lemons  which  have  been 
sliced  thin  and  boiled  in  water  to  cover,  until  peeling  is  ten- 
der. Then  put  in  tomatoes  and  cook  until  done.  Tomatoes 
should  be  transparent  when  done. 

Mrs.  James  Edwin  Marshall. 

PINEAPPLE  HONEY. 

Pare  one  large  pineapple.  Put  through  meat  grinder. 
Measure  1  cup  of  sugar  for  each  cup  of  fruit.  Add  water 
enough  to  cover  sugar  and  boil  until  a  syrup,  then  add 
pineapple  and  boil  until  pineapple  is  soft,  or  syrup  is  thick. 

Mildred  B.  Jones. 

PEAR  CHIPS. 

Eight  lbs.  pears  sliced  thin,  6  lbs.  white  sugar,  6  lemons, 
juice  and  thin  rind  sliced,  6  ounces  preserved  ginger, 
chopped.  Combine  all  and  let  stand  over  night,  then  cook 
for  2  hours  very  slowly  until  clear  and  dark.  Fill  jelly 
tumblers. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  E.  Dorion. 

BAKED  QUINCES. 

Perfectly  ripe,  yellow  quinces  are  delicious  baked.  Core, 
fill  and  sprinkle  the  fruit  liberally  with  sugar,  put  a  small 
amount  of  water  in  the  baking  dish  and  set  in  a  slow  oven 
until  well  done.  A  clean,  amber  jelly  should  surround  the 
quinces.     They  need  no  flavoring. 

Mrs.  Bentley  Masslich. 

PICKLED  PEACHES. 

Eight  lbs.  of  pared  peaches,  4  lbs.  of  sugar,  1  pint  of 
vinegar,  1  lb.  of  raisins,  %  lb.  stick  cinnamon.  Boil  sugar, 
vinegar,  raisins  and  spice  together  for  10  minutes ;  then 
add  fruit  and  cook  until  tender. 

Mrs.  William  A.  Dyche. 


122 PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES 

PICKLED  PEACHES. 

Eight  pounds  pared  peaches,  4  lbs.  sugar,  1^  pints  vine- 
gar, y2  lb.  raisins,  j^  lb.  cinnamon.  After  paring  peaches 
press  into  each,  4  cloves  and  4  cassia  buds  then  proceed  in 
the  usual  way. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Oates. 

TOMATO  BUTTER. 

Seven  lbs.  tomatoes,  3  lbs.  sugar,  1  pt.  cider  vinegar. 
Cook  sugar  and  tomatoes  3  hours,  add  vinegar,  cook  1  hr. 
longer.     Cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Foster. 
(Taken  from  Y.  L.  M.  S.  Cook  Book.) 

SPICED  GRAPES. 

Press  grapes  from  skins  and  after  heating  pulp  put  it 
through  a  colander  to  remove  the  seeds,  then  mix  with  the 
skins  and  measure.  To  5  lbs.  fruit  take  4  lbs.  granulated 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  powdered  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  pow- 
dered cloves,  Yz  pint  vinegar,  and  ^  pint  grape  juice.  Boil 
very  slowly  for  2  hours,  put  into  sterilized  glasses  and 
cover  with  paraffine.  This  is  especially  nice  with  cold 
meats. 

Mrs.  Sherman  Kingsley. 

TOMATO  RELISH. 

Peel  and  chop  very  fine  1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  and  put 
in  colander  to  drain.  Throw  away  the  juice  and  keep  the 
thick  part.  Add  2  cups  chopped  onions,  2  cups  chopped 
celery,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  white  mustard  seed,  J/2  cup 
salt,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper,  4  teaspoons  cinnamon,  4  red 
peppers  chopped  fine,  2  quarts  vinegar  or  less  if  the  mix- 
ture seems  too  thin.  Put  into  a  stone  jar  or  cans  and  cover 
tight.  This  does  not  need  cooking  and  will  keep  in- 
definitely. 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Kean. 


PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES 123 

GREEN  TOMATO  MINCEMEAT. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  chop  fine,  squeeze  and  drain 
off  juice.  Cover  with  hot  water  and  two  tablespoons  of 
salt.  Boil  a  few  minutes  and  drain  off.  Do  this  three  times. 
Then  add  3^  peck  of  chopped  apples,  3  pounds  yellow  C 
sugar,  2  cups  of  vinegar,  1  cup  chopped  suet,  2  tablespoons 
of  ground  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves  and  1  of  nut- 
meg, 1  lb.  of  raisins  and  1  of  currants.  Boil  until  apples 
are  done.  Can  in  fruit  jars  and  seal  tight.  More  sugar  if 
preferred. 

Mrs.  Helen  Stewart  Claassen. 

CANADA  PICKLES. 

Slice  green  tomatoes,  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning  press  and  drain  and  add  one-fourth  as  much 
onion  which  has  been  put  through  the  meat  grinder.  Peel 
and  slice  half  as  many  hard  apples  as  tomatoes.  Boil  vine- 
gar enough  to  cover,  spice  to  taste  with  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  a  little  red  pepper.  Add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  1 
cup  to  each  3  pints  of  pickle.  After  the  vinegar  has  boiled 
pour  over  pickle  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  set  in  fireless 
cooker  for  3  hours.  Drain  off  the  vinegar,  boil  it  up  once 
and  then  pour  it  over  the  pickle  to  seal. 

Mother  Walker. 
CHILI  SAUCE 

Eighteen  large  ripe  tomatoes,  1  green  pepper,  3  onions. 
2  tablespoons  salt,  y^  cup  sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  1  teaspoon 
each  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice.  Chop  fine,  tomatoes, 
onions  and  green  pepper  (from  which  seeds  have  been  re- 
moved).    Mix  well  together.     Stew,  slowly.     Bottle  tight. 

Mrs.  M.  D.  Gloss. 

OIL  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Slice  with  potato  sheer  300  small  cucumbers.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  let  stand  overnight.  In  morning  mix  together  1 
cup  olive  oil,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  2  oz.  each  of  black  and  white 


124 PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES 

mustard  seed.    Pour  this  over  the  cucumbers  and  add  vine- 
gar to  cover.     Pack  in  jars.     No  cooking. 

Mrs.  Richard  C.  Hall. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

Three  ripe  tomatoes,  10  large  onions,  5  bunches  celery, 
15  tablespoons  sugar,  5  cups  vinegar,  5  red  peppers — seeds 
removed — 4  tablespoons  salt.  Chop  vegetables  and  mix 
all  together.     Cook  1^  hours. 

E.  J.  McKee. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Put  large  green  cucumbers  in  brine  for  9  days.  If  then 
too  salt  let  them  stand  in  fresh  water  for  several  hours. 
Remove  from  water  and  cut  lengthwise,  being  careful  not 
to  cut  clear  through.  Remove  seeds,  wipe  dry  as  possible 
and  fill  the  cavity  with  seeded  raisins  and  sliced  lemon. 
Tie  each  cucumber  together  with  twine  and  place  in  a 
jar.  Pour  over  them  boiling  syrup  made  in  same  propor- 
tion as  for  pickled  peaches  or  pears,  adding  cinnamon  and 
cloves  to  hot  syrup.  When  cold  drain  off  syrup,  boil  and 
pour  once  more  over  the  cucumbers.  If  at  any  time  syrup 
is  lacking,  prepare  more  so  that  the  pickles  may  be  well 
covered  before  packing  them  away. 

Mrs.  F.  M.  Vawter. 

CORN  RELISH. 

Chop  together  until  fine  1  head  cabbage,  6  red  peppers 
from  which  all  seeds  have  been  taken,  4  onions.  Cook 
until  tender  in  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  together  1  quart 
water,  Yi  cup  salt,  2  cups  sugar,  ^4  lb.  mustard.  Then  add 
the  corn  cut  from  12  ears  of  green  corn.  Cook  ten  min- 
utes longer  and  can. 

Mrs.  George  S.  Bridge. 

INDIAN  RELISH. 

Chop  fine  12  large  ripe  tomatoes  (peeled),  12  large  tart 
apples,  and  4  large  onions;  to  them  add  1  quart  vinegar; 


PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES 125 

mix  and  boil  until  tender;  then  add  ^  cup  salt,  3  cups 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and 
Yz  teaspoon  red  pepper.  Boil  down  until  quite  thick  and 
bottle. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Clifton. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SWEET  PICKLE. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced ;  sprinkle  with  1  cup  salt ; 
let  stand  over  night.  In  morning  drain  and  boil  for  20 
minutes  in  2  quarts  water  and  1  quart  vinegar.  Turn  off 
the  liquid  and  let  tomatoes  drain  in  a  colander;  then  sim- 
mer for  15  minutes  in  the  following:  Two  quarts  brown 
sugar,  1^  quarts  cider  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  ground 
cloves,  allspice,  ginger,  cinnamon  and  mustard.     Can. 

Mrs.  Andrew  Lindsey. 

PRESERVED  EGG  PLANT  (Delicious). 

Nine  pounds  tgg  plant,  7  lbs.  granulated  sugar,  1  lb. 
figs,  2  lemons.  1  oz.  ginger  root.  Add  the  sugar  to  the 
chopped  tgg  plant  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  morning, 
put  lemons  and  figs  through  the  meat  grinder  and  add  them 
with  the  ginger  root  to  the  egg  plant.  Boil  for  about  3 
hours,  or  until  of  the  proper  consistency.  Fill  into  jelly 
glasses. 

Mrs.  Salene. 


St.  Benedictus  Olive  Oil 

Supreme   Virgin  Olive  Oil  of  France 


'  ' 


Bon   Vincent  Olive  Oil 

Best    Lucca    Olive    Oil    of  Italy 


'  ■ 


Either  one  will  be  sure  to  please  the  most  fastidious 


Jevne's  SOVEREIGN  BLEND  OF  TEA, 

the   finest   cup,  "Liquid   Gold"  Splendid 
Aroma,  Exquisite  Flavor.     $L00  per  lb. 

dJEVNI 

Importers  and  Grocers 

32-34  So.  Wabash  Avenue 

CHICAGO 

Telephone  Central  1-2-3-4 

Express  Charges  prepaid  to  any  point   in    the   United   States 


Favorites  of  Our  Favorites 


The    things    that    mother   used    to 
cook 

Most    of    us    know    quite    well 
about; 

Here    are    the    others — turn    and 
look — 

That  father  used  to  tell  about. 

—Wilbur  D.  Nesbit. 


128 FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 

DOUGHNUTS. 
Dr.  Frost's  favorite  rule. 

One  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk  (sweet),  1  spoon 
baking  powder,  ^  spoon  of  salt,  stir  thick  with  flour, 
mould,  cut  in  strips,  roll  and  twist,  fry  brown  in  hot  Ko- 
nut. 

METHODIST  WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  chafing  dish ;  stir  in  1  tea- 
spoon cornstarch,  add  3^  cup  milk  or  thin  cream  and  cook 
2  minutes.  Add  ^^  lb.  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces  and  stir 
until  melted.  Season  with  ^  teaspoon  salt,  Ys  teaspoon 
mustard,  and  a  sprinkling  of  cayenne  pepper.  Serve  on 
soft  toast. 

J.  L.  Alabaster. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 

(Rev.  Edgar  Blake's  favorite  pudding.) 
Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  melted  and  browned 
in  a  saucepan,  added  to  1  quart  boiling  milk,  salt  and  va- 
nilla to  taste.  To  this  add  4  eggs  beaten  slightly.  Turn 
in  buttered  mold,  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake 
about  30  minutes.  Serve  cold  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 
With  this  pudding  serve  angel  cake. 

OLYMPIC  DOUGH-GODS. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  bacon  or  bear's  grease 
well  worked  in — the  more  thoroughly,  the  better;  ^  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of 
sugar.  Mix  with  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  but  do 
not  knead  or  mould.  Put  dough  in  a  long-handled,  greased 
frying  pan,  and  bake  over  an  open  fire  till  the  bottom  is 
well  done ;  then  hold  the  pan  at  such  an  angle  as  to  catch 
the  heat  of  the  flame  on  the  top.  Shift  till  all  parts  of 
the  top  are  browned,  and  the  dough  is  well  cooked.  Eat 
with  butter  or  maple  syrup. 

Solon  C.  Bronson. 


FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 129 

CHEESE  CUSTARD. 
(Another   favorite  of   Bishop   McDowell's.) 

One  teacup  grated  cheese,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
1  large  tablespoon  milk.  Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
cheese,  milk,  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  in  deep  earthen  plate 
ten  minutes. 


DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  lard  creamed  in  the 
sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  1  small  teaspoon  soda  in 
the  milk,  3^  cups  sifted  flour,  ^  teaspoon  cream  of  tar- 
tar, y^  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Herbert  F.  Fisk. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

The  life  of  French  dressing  is  the  seasoning.  Too  often 
it  is  merely  a  tame  combination  of  oil  and  vinegar.  My 
friend  emphasized  a  "clove  of  garlic."  If  one  clove  is 
good,  a  dozen  must  be  better.  Crush  these  in  a  bowl,  add 
plenty  of  salt,  paprika  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  beat 
with  the  air  of  a  connoisseur.  Good  for  all  green  salads, 
especially  at  business  luncheon.  If  in  doubt  about  the 
flavor,  on  returning  to  the  office  ask  your  secretary  if  she 
detects  any  delicate  odor,  and  if  she  suggests  that  you  do 
not  call  on  your  clients  for  a  day  or  two,  you  may  know 
the  seasoning  was  all  right. 

William  Boyd. 

GREEN  CORN  CAKES. 

(Dr.   M.   C.   Bragdon's   favorite  breakfast  dish.) 

One  pint  raw  corn  cut  fine,  1  cup  of  milk,  ^  cup  of  flour, 
2  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  well  and  bake  on  hot  griddle 
like  ordinary  griddle  cakes. 

RECTOR'S  PUMPKIN  PIE. 
(By  C.  B.  Cleveland.) 

Twelve  eggs,  3  cups  sugar,  ^  gallon  pumpkin,  1  quart 


130 FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 

rich  milk,  1  tablespoon  molasses,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  gin- 
ger and  mace. 

HOW  TO  BROIL  A  STEAK. 

(Recommended  by  Mr.  William  A.  Dyche.) 
When  you  are  so  lucky  as  to  get  a  beefsteak,  don't  spoil 
it  in  the  cooking.  If  you  have  much  else  to  see  to  besides 
the  steak,  you  had  better  have  something  else  for  dinner, 
for  it  is  a  sin  to  put  a  nice  steak  on  the  coals,  and  leave 
it  to  squirm  and  warp  and  dry  up  until  it  is  as  tough  as 
shoe  leather.  But  if  you  have  a  conscience  void  of  offence 
with  all  men,  and  are  able  to  concentrate  your  energies  upon 
the  business,  put  your  steak  upon  the  fire.  Now  you  must 
know  that  the  outside  of  a  broiled  piece  of  meat  must  be 
crisp  and  (turn  it)  the  inside  juicy,  to  make  it  the  most 
palatable  and  (turn  it)  nourishing.  If  you  allow  it  to  rest 
long  with  one  side  to  the  fire  (turn  it)  the  juice  and  flavor 
are  lost.  The  great  art  (turn  it)  is  to  expose  the  meat  at 
the  start  for  a  moment  to  such  an  intense  heat,  that  (turn 
it)  the  fiber  may  be  seared  in  such  a  manner  as  to  seal,  as 
it  were,  the  moisture  (turn  it).  Steak  can  be  cooked  in 
this  way  until  it  will  not  look  bloody  when  cut,  and  (turn 
it)  will  satisfy  fully  those  who  like  it  well  done.  Butter 
is  worse  than  wasted,  but  of  course  (turn  it)  you'll  have 
it  on  the  table  for  such  as  wish  to  disguise  the  taste  of  beef 
(turn  it).  It  may  not  be  impertinent  to  suggest  (turn  it) 
that  as  the  steak  is  just  done,  the  potatoes  also  just  done, 
the  family  may  gather  round  the  table  so  as  to  receive  the 
steak  upon  their  hot  plates.  There  will  be  time  for  grace 
before  eating,  and  you  will  be  thankful  after,  whether  it 
is  customary  or  not  in  your  family  to  say  so. 

— Y.  L.  M.  S.  Cook  Book. 

\  NEW  ENGLAND  BAKED  BEANS. 

Li^--  (By  Mr.  William  Deering.) 

One  pint  white  navy  beans  soaked  over  night.  In  morn- 
ing pour  ofif  water,  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  until 
beans  crack  open.  Pour  off  this  water,  add  ^4  lb.  salt 
pork,  1  tablespoon  molasses,  1  tablespoon  butter  and  water 
to  cover.    Bake  7  to  10  hours,  keeping  moist  with  water. 


FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 131 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 
(By  Mr.  William  Deering.) 

Put  2  cups  yellow  corn  meal  in  a  pan ;  cover  with  suffi- 
cient boiling  water  to  moisten;  in  another  pan  put  1  cup 
white  flour,  1  cup  yellow  cornmeal,  2  cups  sour  milk,  ^ 
cup  molasses  and  beat  well  together.  Add  to  first  pan  of 
cornmeal  1  teaspoon  soda  and  Y^  teaspoon  salt.  Pour  con- 
tents of  both  pans  together,  beat  five  minutes  and  steam 
five  hours. 

PEACH  MARMALADE. 

Peel  and  stone  peaches  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Allow 
^^  lb.  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit.  Heat  the  fruit  slowly, 
stirring  often  to  prevent  burning.  Boil  ^  hour  and  then 
add  sugar.  When  nearly  done,  add  juice  of  1  lemon  and 
chopped  kernels  of  6  peaches  for  every  2  pounds  of  fruit. 

William  A.  Dyche. 

RED  RAREBIT. 

One  tablespoon  flour,  butter  size  of  egg,  Yz  pint  of  milk, 
juice  of  a  can  of  tomatoes.  Scald  tomatoes  and  milk, 
cream  butter  and  flour  and  add  to  liquid ;  season  with  pap- 
rika and  salt.  Add  1  lb.  of  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces,  and 
stir  until  melted  and  thickened  a  little.  Serve  on  toast  or 
crackers. 

E.  C.  E.  Dorion. 

SPOON  BREAD. 

One  coffee  cup  white  cornmeal,  Yi  teaspoon  salt,  3  eggs, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  enough 
milk  to  make  a  very  thin  batter.  First,  scald  the  meal  with 
hot  water ;  stir  in  the  salt  and  yolks  of  eggs,  beat  well.  Add 
heaping  tablespoon  butter  (melted).  The  last  thing,  add 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  the  baking  powder. 
Cook  in  slow  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.     This 


132 FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVOKlTES 

recipe  makes  enough  for  seven  or  eight  people  served  gen- 
erously. 

Mr.  Frank  B.  Dyche. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM. 
(A  favorite  dessert  of  Rev.  David  G.  Downey.) 

One  cup  hot  milk,  1  pint  cream,  ^  box  gelatine,  %  cup 
cold  water,  y^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  or  any  other 
flavoring.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  and  add  the 
sugar.  Mix  and  add  the  hot  milk.  Place  the  mixing  bowl 
in  a  pan  of  ice  water  and  let  it  stand  until  the  mixture 
stiffens  a  little.  Then  beat,  add  the  cream  whipped,  and 
when  light  pour  in  mold.  Do  not  let  mixture  get  too  hard 
before  adding  whipped  cream  or  lumps  will  form.  Serve 
with  or  without  whipped  cream.  If  a  plainer  desert  is  de- 
sired, the  recipe  may  be  used  with  3^  pint  of  cream. 

RECEIPT  FOR  CODFISH  BALLS. 

One  cup  salt  codfish,  2  cups  potatoes,  1  egg,  yi  table- 
spoon butter,  ]4>  teaspoon  pepper.  Soak  fish  in  cold  water ; 
then  cut  into  small  pices.  Cook  fish  and  potatoes  in  boiling 
water  until  potatoes  are  soft,  and  then  strain.  Mash  care- 
fully and  add  butter  and  egg  well  beaten.  Take  up  with 
spoon  and  drop  ball  in  deep  fat  for  1  minute. 

W.  H.  Dunham,  chef. 

JIM  DANDY  COOKIES. 

Two  eggs,  \y2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  any  flavoring  desired.  Mix  very,  very  soft,  roll  thin, 
sprinkle  with  sugar.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

F.  C.  Eiselen. 

FROZEN  BEEF. 
(For  winter.) 

Select  any  cut  of  fresh  beef,  free  from  bone.     Place  out 


FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 133 

of  doors  in  a  covered  dish,  letting  the  meat  freeze  until 
solid.  Slice  very  thin,  put  in  a  hot  frying  pan,  cover  and 
stir  frequently  until  the  water  has  cooked  out  of  the  meat. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of  butter.  Let  the 
meat  brown.  Make  a  cream  dressing  of  milk  and  flour, 
cooking  until  thick.  If  desired,  make  a  brown  milk  and 
flour  dressing.     Serve  with  baked  potatoes. 

Horace  M.  Ford. 

LAMB  HASH. 

Take  1^  cups  of  roast  lamb,  remove  all  gristle  but  not 
all  the  fat,  and  chop  fine.  Add  1^  cups  of  chopped  pota- 
toes, and  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  Spanish  onion.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  a  generous  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter in  a  skillet  and  put  in  the  hash  mixture.  After  it  has 
thoroughly  heated  through  and  slightly  browned,  stir  in  one 
cup  of  rich  gravy  and  cover,  so  as  to  steam  through  for 
three  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

Herbert  F.  Fisk. 

SHORT  CAKE. 

]\Ieasure  3  cups  flour,  add  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
rub  in  Yi  cup  butter;  beat  1  egg  light  and  add  1  cup  of 
cold  water,  stir  into  the  flour.  Spread  on  two  shallow  pans, 
which  have  been  well  greased.  Sprinkle  1  teaspoon  sugar 
over  the  top  of  each.  Bake  from  10  to  15  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven.  Put  any  kind  of  crushed  fruit  between  the  lay- 
ers. 

Alonzo  C.  Fry, 

PLUM  CONSERVE. 

Two  baskets  blue  plums,  6  oranges,  4  lemons,  1  lb.  rai- 
sins. Wash  and  stone  the  plums ;  put  oranges,  lemons  and 
raisins  through  a  meat  grinder  and  add  to  plums.  To  each 
pint  of  fruit,  add  1  pint  of  sugar.  Cook  mixture  slowly 
for  two  hours,  stirring  constantly  after  it  begins  to  boil. 
Put  in  glasses  or  stone  crocks  and  cover  with  melted  par- 
affine. 

Mr.  George  A.  Foster. 


134 FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Three  eggs,  1  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon mustard,  1^^  cups  sour  cream,  ^  cup  vinegar,  ^ 
tablespoon  melted  butter.  Mix  dry  ingredients  first,  add 
eggs  well  beaten,  then  cream  butter.  Put  on  the  stove  in 
a  double  boiler,  add  vinegar  a  little  at  a  time  very  slowly 
as  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  remove  from  the  fire ;  add  salt 
to  taste  as  soon  as  cool.  After  standing,  thin  with  sweet 
cream. 

James  B.  Gascoigne. 

SALAD  A  LA  BASSO. 

In  the  center  of  a  cluster  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves  put 
pulp  of  two  oranges,  and  one  medium-sized  Bermuda  on- 
ion sliced  very  thin;  pour  over  this  a  French  dressing  (the 
French  dressing  should  have  sugar  added). 

Marion  Green. 

SUGAR  COOKIES   (Excellent). 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sour 
cream,  2  teaspoons  soda,  nutmeg;  add  pastry  flour  to  make 
a  soft  dough  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

John  T.  Gascoigne. 

"GOGEBIC"  OMELETTE. 

Two  eggs,  4  tablespoons  milk,  3^  slice  bread  (crumbed). 
1  saltspoon  salt.  Beat  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  the  milk  and 
bread  crumbs.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stififly,  first 
adding  the  salt,  then  lightly  fold  into  the  yolk  mixture. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  pan,  fry,  and  when  lightly  browned, 
fold  together. 

Hugh  H.  Harris. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 

Cream  together  3/2  scant  cup  butter  and  1  cup  of  sugar. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  until  light  and  add  1  cup  of  sugar. 


FAVORITES   OF  OUR  FAVORITES 135 

Combine  these  2  mixtures.  Add  alternately  1  cup  of  milk 
and  2  cups  of  flour  mixed  with  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  then  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  and 
finally  2^^  squares  of  melted  chocolate.  Bake  in  three  lay- 
ers about  half  an  hour.  Spread  with  chocolate  frosting 
made  as  follows :  Boil  together  1  square  of  chocolate,  2 
cups  of  sugar,  ^  cup  milk,  yolk  of  1  egg,  vanilla,  and  Yi 


teaspoon  vmegar. 


Chauncey  Hobart 


CARAWAY  CUP. 

Juice  of  2  lemons,  1  orange,  1  scant  cup  sugar,  1  pint 
water,  1  quart  ginger  ale.  Add  a  few  sprigs  of  mmt,  and 
cherries. 

James  Taft  Hatheld. 


CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

Make  a  cup  of  white  sauce  with  a  heaping  tablespoon 
butter,  2  tablespoons  flour  and  1  cup  of  rich  milk;  when 
smooth,  add  ^  pint  of  small  oysters  and  stir  until  their 
edges  curl.  Butter  large  oyster  shells  and  fill  them  with 
the  mixture,  covering  them  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and 
dots  of  butter.     Brown  in  the  oven. 

Nathan  Wilbur  Helm. 


DOUGHNUTS. 
(Dean  Holgate's  favorite.) 

One  cup  sugar,  J4  tablespoon  butter,  1  ^gg,  3^  teaspoon 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1^  teaspoons 
cream  of  tartar,  1^  teaspoons  soda,  Ij^  teaspoons  salt, 
4  cups  flour.  Sift  flour,  salt,  soda,  cream  of  tartar  and 
spice.  Rub  in  butter  and  add  sugar,  ^gg  well  beaten  and 
sour  milk.  Make  dough  as  soft  as  possible,  but  use  more 
flour  if  necessary  when  rolling  out. 


136 FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 

DR.  STEPHEN  J.  HERBEN'S  FAVORITE  "T." 

One-fourth  teaspoon  black  tea  (tip  leaves),  1  pint  bub- 
bling hot  water,  3  whole  cloves  (heads  on),  1  slice  lemon. 
Have  porcelain  teapot  hot.  Then  add  tea  and  water.  Press 
lemon  juice  on  the  sugar;  pour  tea  in  hot  cup;  add  cloves, 
and  drink  with  cheer. 


Professor  U.  S.  Grant's  Sunday  night  dish — Popcorn  in 
milk. 


A  PREACHER'S  FAVORITE  WHAT  TO  EATS. 

In  summer,  watermelon  and  ice  cream;  in  winter,  cocoa 
and  buckwheat  cakes.  But  all  the  year  round,  chicken  with 
dumplings  and  gravy. 

D.  A.  Hayes. 

PRUNE  WHIP. 

Re-heat  one  large  cup  of  prunes,  having  juice  enough  to 
prevent  burning.  Stir  all  the  time.  When  the  fruit  falls 
from  the  stones,  take  from  fire.  Remove  stones  and  beat 
well.  Add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  until  they  are 
dry;  mix  thoroughly;  serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

R.  D.  W.  Johnson. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 
(Partial  to  N.  M.  Jones.) 

One  small  cup  rice ;  wash  in  several  waters  and  let  stand 
in  cold  water  30  minutes.  Take  2  quarts  boiling  water  and 
1  teaspoon  salt.  Drain  rice  and  add  to  boiling  water.  Let 
boil  hard  20  minutes  and  drain.  While  hot,  add  1  table- 
spoon butter.  Beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  add  when  nearly 
cold.  Mold  into  cakes.  Set  away  to  harden ;  fry.  Can 
be  made  round  and  fried  like  doughnuts,  or  made  flat  and 
fried  in  the  frying  pan. 


FAVORITES   OF  OUR  FAVORITES 137 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 
(Also  partial  to  N.  M.  Jones.) 

Put  into  quart  measure  1  cup  molasses.  Fill  up  with 
fresh  buttermilk.  Add  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  soda 
dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  boiling  water,  2  cups  cornmeal,  2 
cups  graham  meal,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter.     Steam  4  hours  in  closed  pail. 

My  favorite — Sally  Lunn. 

James  A.  James. 

BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS. 

To  2  eggs  well  beaten,  add  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 
and  beat  well.  Then  add  gradually  1  cup  milk.  Sift  to- 
gether 1%  cups  flour,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  heaping 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  salt;  add  these  dry 
ingredients  to  the  eggs,  butter  and  milk,  beating  the  whole 
very  vigorously.  Lastly,  add  1  cup  blueberries,  floured. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  generously  buttered  muffin  tins. 

Alfred  L.  Lindsey. 


CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Three  pints  cranberries,  1^^  pints  granulated  sugar,  1 
pint  water.  Cook  together  for  5  minutes.  Do  not  stir  after 
it  comes  to  the  boiling  point. 

Alfred  L,  Lindsey. 

The  favorite  dessert  of  Peter  C.  Lutkin — Bread  and  apple 
pudding. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

Put  3  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  in  it  fry  1 
tablespoon  chopped  onion.  When  the  onions  turn  yellow, 
add  1  quart  cold  boiled  potatoes  which  have  been  cut  into 
dice  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  with  a  fork, 
being  careful  not  to  break  the  potatoes.     When  hot,  add 


138 FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  and  cook  two  minutes  longer. 
Serve  immediately  on  a  hot  dish. 

William  D.  Murdock. 

WALNUT  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 
(Bishop  McDowell's  favorite  dessert.) 

Three  tablespoons  tapioca  soaked  3  hours.  Put  into  1 
quart  milk,  draining  off  water.  Boil  45  minutes.  Add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  to  1  coffeecup  of  sugar.  Stir  into 
pudding  5  minutes  before  removing  from  fire.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Beat  whites  to  stiff  froth  with  5  tablespoons  pow- 
dered sugar.  Chop  English  walnuts  fine  and  spread  over 
meringue.     Brown  in  oven. 

CORN  BREAD. 

One  cup  cornmeal,  1  cup  flour,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  2  eggs, 

2  rounding  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  even  tablespoons 
butter  (melted),  ^  level  teaspoon  salt.  All  cornmeal  may 
be  used,  or  part  cold  boiled  rice,  instead  of  flour.  The  eggs 
must  be  thoroughly  beaten — yolks  and  whites  separately 
When  all  the  ingredients  have  been  put  together,  give  a 
last  rapid  beating  of  the  mixture  and  bake  in  a  shallow 
pan.  Do  not  have  oven  too  hot.  The  cake  should  be  about 
two  inches  in  thickness  when  done  and  smooth  and  vel- 
vety in  texture. 

Mr.  John  Mahin. 

HOW  TO  SCRAMBLE  EGGS. 

There  are  people  who  advocate  putting  the  egg  on  a 
slippery  spot  and  forcing  it  to  scramble  the  best  it  may. 
But  this  is  cruel  to  the  egg  and  infelicitous  in  results. 

Properly  scrambling  eggs  is  an  accomplishment  in  itself. 
Eggs  should  not  be  scrambled  haphazardly.  This  thing  of 
grabbing  an  egg,  hurling  it  into  a  frying  pan  and  disar- 
ranging its  interior  economy  with  a  hat  pin  or  a  poker  or 
a  stove  lid  lifter  may  be  all  very  well  for  the  person  who 
is  in  haste,  but  people  who  are  in  haste  should  not  eat  eggs. 

Select  your  eggs  with  care.  Choose  eggs  that  have  bru- 
nette shells.     Do  not  open  them  with  a  selection  by  the 


FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 139 

glee  club.  Take  a  knife  and  kindly  but  firmly  strike  the 
Ggg  on  its  equator.  This  does  not  fracture  the  shell  com- 
minutedly,  so  to  speak,  and  allow  the  inmost  thoughts  of 
the  egg  to  flow  over  your  fingers  and  meditate  upon  the 
floor.  Open  the  egg  as  you  would  an  oyster,  and  gently 
drop  the  contents  into  a  bowl.  Now  have  your  frying  pan 
ready.  Have  it  hot.  Into  it  gracefully  toss  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  your  gas  bill  for  one  day.  When  the  butter 
has  melted,  dust  some  pepper  and  salt  into  the  eggs  in  the 
bowl  and  pour  them  into  the  frying  pan ;  then  at  once  begin 
agitating  the  eggs  with  a  long-handled  spoon.  To  do  this, 
you  will  hold  the  egg  bowl  in  one  hand,  the  handle  of  the 
frying  pan  in  the  other,  the  long  spoon  in  the  other,  and 
with  the  other  put  the  pepper  and  salt  boxes  back  on  the 
kitchen  table.  Continue  stirring  the  eggs  until  they  are 
done  just  right,  then  turn  them  out  of  the  frying  pan  into 
a  plate  and  say,  "There !"  Eggs  scrambled  in  this  way  are 
thankful;  otherwise  they  are  justly  resentful. 

Wilbur  D.  Nesbit. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  6  large  apples.  Fill  the  cores  with  chopped 
nuts ;  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  and  add  from  3^  to 
1  cup  of  water.  Bake  in  quick  oven  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

R.  H.  Pooley. 

ESCALLOPED  FISH. 

Two  pounds  white  fish  boiled,  boned  and  picked  fine ; 
1  can  mushrooms  added  to  fish.  Cream  for  filling:  1  pint 
cream  thickened,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  good-sized  lump 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fill  the  ramequins  first 
with  layer  of  cream,  then  layer  of  fish.  Cover  the  top  with 
rolled  crackers ;  bake  20  minutes. 


Fried  mush,  without  syrup. 


Walter  M.  Pond. 
James  A.  Patten. 


140 FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 

FISH  HASH. 

(A  favorite  breakfast  dish  of  Mr.  Charles  P.  Stevens.) 
One  can  Burnham  &  Morrill's  fish  flakes,  add  equal  quan- 
tity of  cold  boiled  potatoes ;  chop  fine ;  add  butter  size  of 
a  walnut,  brown  on  both  sides  in  skillet;  pork  fat  or  bacon 
grease  preferred  to  lard  or  butter.  Chopped  onion  can  be 
added  if  liked. 


POTATO  SOUP. 
(Rev.  W.  O.   Shepard's  favorite  soup.) 

In  a  saucepan  containing  4  quarts  of  hot  water,  2  ounces 
of  chopped  bacon,  6  small  onions  (chopped),  1  teaspoon 
salt  and  1  teaspoon  pepper.  Boil  for  15  minutes.  Peel, 
slice,  and  add  1  quart  of  raw  potatoes  and  boil  the  whole 
again  until  the  potatoes  are  reduced  to  a  pulp. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

(Mr.  C.  N.  Stevens'  favorite  pies.) 

One  cup  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine,  Yz  cup  sugar,  1  ^%^ 
well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  flour,  ^  cup  hot  water  poured 
over  raisins ;  mix  all  together  and  cook  just  about  5  min- 
utes.    Fill  into  the  pastry  and  bake  with  a  top  crust. 


SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

One-half  pint  mashed  and  strained  sweet  potatoes ;  mix 
with  1  pint  milk  while  potatoes  are  hot;  two  eggs  beaten 
separately,  then  together;  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  Yz  oi  Yi 
pint  measure  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Mix 
all  together,  fill  crust  and  bake. 

WAFFLES. 

(Favorite  breakfast  dish  of  Dr.  Charles  M.  Stuart.) 
Two  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2%  cups 
of  flour,  XYz  teaspoons  baking  powder,  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 


FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 141 

JONATHAN  APPLES. 

Eat  fifteen  a  day. 

John  A.  Scott. 

POOR  MAN'S  PUDDING. 
(By  George  H.  Tomlinson.) 

One  quart  fresh  milk,  2  tablespoons  rice,  y^  cup  sugar. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  two  hours,  or  until  the  pudding 
takes  on  a  creamy  color  and  consistency.    Serve  cold. 

CURRANT  PIE. 
Warranted  not  to  set  one's  teeth  on  edge. 

Dr.  W.  A.  Thomas. 

MEAT  SAUCE. 

(Constructed  on  strictly  correct  lines,  and  approved  by 

Thomas  E.  Tallmadge,  architect  of  the  First 

M.  E.  Church.) 

Slice  %.  lb.  of  bacon,  put  it  in  a  frying  pan  and  try  out 
all  the  fat.  Remove  the  bacon  and  add  1  tablespoon  flour 
after  the  fat  has  become  very  brown.  Stir  this  until 
smooth ;  add  3^  pint  stock  and  stir  continually  until  it  boils ; 
add  1  tablespoon  each  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  mush- 
room catsup,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  then  add  1  pint  of 
fresh  or  canned  mushrooms.  If  fresh,  simmer  gently  for 
15  minutes;  if  canned,  only  5  minutes. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  1^4  cups  sugar  sifted 
4  times,  Ys  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  1  cup  Swansdown 
flour.  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch  of  salt  added  to  whites  of 
eggs.  Measure,  sift  and  set  aside  sugar  and  flour.  Beat 
yolks  to  a  foam.  Whip  whites  to  a  foam,  adding  cream  of 
tartar  and  beating  until  very  stiff.  Fold  in  sugar,  then 
yolks,  then  flavoring,  and  lastly  the  flour.  Bake  in  an  un- 
greased  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  40  to  50  minutes. 

Walter  Ward. 


142 FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 

BOILED  EARS. 
Just  boil  in  salted  water,  and  eat  off  the  cob. 

Carl  S.  Williams, 

DELICIOUS  BREAKFAST  DISH. 

Take  your  favorite  breakfast  food,  shake  gently  from 
the  box  into  your  dish,  dust  a  little  sugar  over,  then  cover 
with  cream  and  eat  with  spoon.  This  agrees  with  the  most 
confirmed  dyspeptic. 

H.  B.  Williams. 

MOTHER'S  CAKE. 

One  good  cup  butter,  1^^  cups  sugar,  3  eggs  beaten  sep- 
arately, 1  teaspoon  of  lemon  or  vanilla,  1  saltspoon  mace, 
Yz  cup  milk,  2^  cups  pastry  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder.     Bake  in  a  loaf. 

Mr.  S.  F.  Wilson. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

One  ^gg,  well  beaten,  Yz  cup  sugar,  Yz  cup  shortening,  1 
cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  flour,  2  cups  Indian 
meal,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt.    Bake  quickly. 

Fred  A.  Wells. 

BROOK  TROUT  A  LA  NATURE. 

Being  noted  for  going  away  and  staying  until  my  friends 
wonder — and  as  man's  greatest  enjoyment  is  in  eating  what 
he  likes  best  when  served  under  congenial  conditions  and 
surroundings — my  favorite  recipe  is  fried  brook  trout. 
First  catch  the  speckled  beauties  if  you  can.  If  they  are 
easily  attracted  by  one's  flies,  then  be  choice  as  to  size 
and  condition,  if  wary,  take  what  you  can  get.  As  soon 
after  they  are  out  of  the  water  as  would  be  humane,  re- 
move the  parts  you  do  not  care  to  consume,  and  otherwise 
prepare  for  cooking.    Then  take  the  spider  and  in  it  place 


FAVORITES   OF  OUR  FAVORITES 143 

a  number  of  strips  of  "bacon  what  is  bacon"  and  remove 
when  nice  and  crisp.  In  order  to  get  bacon  in  this  crisp 
condition  it  is  necessary  to  start  a  fire  with  the  ever  handy 
birch  bark  and  dry  wood.  This  is  generally  easily  done, 
way  up  in  nature's  playground,  in  the  beautiful  Lauren- 
tides  of  the  Province  of  Quebec.  After  the  bacon  is  crisp, 
remove  it  and  in  the  bacon  grease  in  the  spider,  place 
the  trout,  fry  and  turn  and  turn  and  fry,  until  thoroughly 
done.  Then  from  the  larder  select  such  other  delicacies 
as  will  grace  a  meal  for  a  king,  and  go  at  it  with  both 
hands,  one  is  not  enough  for  the  delicate  appetite  which 
air,  exercise  and  surroundings  give  to  the  man  turned 
Indian. 

William  A.  Vawter. 

OLD  FASHIONED  RICE  PUDDING. 
(President  Abram  W.  Harris'  favorite  pudding.) 

Small  half  cup  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  milk,  sweetened  to 
taste.  Place  on  back  of  stove  to  simmer,  stirring  occasion- 
ally, and  add  milk  as  it  boils  down  until  a  quart  of  milk 
is  used.     Brown  in  hot  oven.     Serve  cold. 


THE  IMPERIAL  DANISH  RICE  PUDDING. 
Given   by   Dr.    J.    M.    Buckley. 

Two  tablespoons  rice,  3^  lb.  sugar,  3  pints  milk,  5^2  pint 
cream.  Soak  the  rice  for  twenty-four  hours  in  water.  Then 
bake  3  hours  and  add  the  cream  when  the  pudding  is  near- 
ly done. 

RECIPE,  PATENTED. 
For  cooking  beefsteak  in  the  woods. 

By  Bishop  William  A.  Quayle. 

Buy  a  beefsteak,  paying  for  it,  if  that  inconvenience  be 
found  necessary.  Go  valiantly  to  some  piece  of  woods  shut 
off  from  human  observation.  Build  a  fire,  using  last  year's 
leaves  for  kindling  and  balsam-breathed  broken  branches 


144 FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 

for  fuel.  Take  time.  Have  no  haste.  Loaf,  and  invite 
your  soul  while  the  fire  gets  agoing.  Have  no  skillet.  A 
skillet  will  destroy  the  cooking.  Have  no  dishes,  they  will 
destroy  the  eating.  Be  calm.  No  neurotic  can  do  the  busi- 
ness. It  requires  great  calmness  and  poise  in  a  transaction 
with  beefsteak  in  the  woods.  Cook  on  a  stick,  taking  plen- 
ty of  time.  Drop  the  steak  in  the  ashes  a  few  times — how 
many  times  depends  on  the  taste  of  the  COOKEE.  When 
cooked,  eat  with  vast  deliberation,  using  fingers  only,  as 
forks  are  a  disparagement.  When  eaten,  stop.  Say  grace 
before,  during  and  after. 


CREAMED  OYSTERS  ON  TOAST. 

One  pint  of  cream,  one  pint  of  oysters,  one  tablespoon 
flower,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  the  cream  come  to  a 
boil.  Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  into  the 
hot  cream.  Let  the  oysters  come  to  a  boil  in  their  own 
liquor  then  skim  and  drain  off  all  the  liquor  and  add  to  the 
cream  sauce.  Add  a  dash  of  paprika.  Serve  hot  over  bits 
of  buttered  toast. 

Mr.  Wm.  F.  McKenzie. 


A  BACHELOR  BREAKFAST. 

Blessed  with  a  good  appetite,  on  which  waits  a  good  di- 
gestion, having  cultivated  a  somewhat  discriminating  taster 
and  not  having  had  an  income  that  quite  keeps  the  pace,  why 
should  I  try  to  decide  what  my  favorite  recipe  is?  Canai«e  to 
cheese,  I  enjoy  viands  to  the  full,  if  they  be  simple,  tooth- 
some, and  wholesome,  for  "the  chief  pleasure  (in  eating) 
does  not  consist  in  costly  seasoning  or  exquisite  flavor,  but 
in  yourself." 

How  foolish  then  to  attempt  the  selection  of  a  "best" 
among  so  many  "good."  Let  me  rather  tell  you  of  one 
breakfast  prepared  and  eaten  alone,  than  which  none  ever 
tasted  better. 

A  long  summer  punctuated  three  times  a  day  by  hotel  and 
restaurant  fare,  which  is  the  bane  of  the  traveling  man. 


FAVORITES  OF  OUR  FAVORITES 146 

Tired  nature  finally  objected  and  directed  me  to  put  into 
practice  some  of  my  kitchen  theories,  and  this  is  the  break- 
fast. 

The  percolator  having  been  loaded  with  a  generous  charge 
of  freshly  grown  coffee  and  the  pump  started;  the  peaches 
were  then  cut  and  sugared,  ready  for  the  cream,  and  the 
kitchen  table  spread,  to  be  close  by  the  fire,  not  overlooking 
a  goodly  supply  of  butter  and  rolls.  Three  or  four  lumps  of 
sweet  beef  fat  were  well  tried  out  in  the  hot  frying  pan, 
then  a  good  sized  beef  tenderloin  steak  with  a  sprinkle  of 
salt,  added,  and  when  half  done  a  few  half  inch  cuts  of  a 
beefsteak  tomato.  The  pan  and  its  contents  were  left  to  the 
tender  mercies  of  the  fire,  while  the  peaches  were  eaten  and 
the  coffee  poured,  then  I  went  up  against  the  steaming  fat 
steak  and  tomatoes,  each  of  which  had  drawn  richness  of 
flavor  from  the  other,  as  it  can  only  be  done  in  the  despised 
skillet.    Oh  me !  Oh  my ! ! 

Robert  N.  Collyer. 


THEOBOLD'S 

Pastry,  Candies, 

Ice  Creams 

and  Ices 

Telephone  244 

600  Davis  Street    -:-    Evanston,  111. 


The  Finest  of  Clothing  "Ready  to 
Wear"  and  Gents'  Furnishings  of 
the  "Better  Sort." 

Karger's  Clothes  Shop 

Phone  724 
812  DAVIS  STREET    -:-    EVANSTON.  ILL. 


Queen  Esther  Sweets 


'Give  no  more  to  ev'ry  guest 
Than  he  is  able  to  digest; 
Give  him  ahvays  of  the  prime, 
And  but  little  at  a  time." 


148 QUEEN   ESTHER   SWEETS 

PINOCHE. 

Four  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  thin  cream,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Boil  15  minutes.  Add  ^  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Beat  for  5  minutes  and  add  1  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

Helen  Beals. 

FUDGE. 

Grate  2  squares  or  ounces  of  chocolate  and  stir  into  J^ 
cup  miilk,  add  2  cups  granulated  sugar  and  ^  cup  or  less 
of  corn  syrup  (Karo  corn  syrup  is  best).  Put  over  the 
fire  and  stir  in  2  tablespoons  butter.  When  chocolate  is 
melted  allow  to  cook  slowly,  stirring  once  in  awhile.  When 
the  mixture  makes  a  soft  ball  between  the  fingers  when 
tested  in  cold  water  it  is  done.  After  actual  boiling  has 
begun,  about  five  minutes  will  finish  it.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  beat  thoroughly,  gran- 
ulation will  soon  begin,  when  the  mixture  must  be  immedi- 
ately turned  into  a  buttered  pan  or  plate.  Cut  in  squares 
when  nearly  cold. 

Gertrude  Curme. 

FUDGE  DELIGHT. 

Take  two  cups  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of  milk,  and  bring  to  a 
boil ;  then  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  When  it  makes 
a  soft  ball  in  water,  put  in  two  squares  of  melted  chocolate 
and  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in 
slowly,  yi  lb.  of  cut  marshmallows  and  a  cupful  of  chopped 
pecans  and  almonds.  Pour  into  pan  and  do  not  cut  until 
thoroughly  cold. 

Pauline  Therese  Dorion. 

FRENCH  CREAM  CANDY. 

Break  1  egg  into  a  bowl,  and  add  to  it  the  same  amount 
of  cold  water.  Now  mix  with  it  XXX  confectioner's  sugar 
until  stiff  enough  to  shape  into  oblong  balls ;  flavor  to  taste. 
Press  an  English  walnut  or  pecan  on  each  side  and  lay  on 
a  platter  to  dry. 

Irene  Sargent. 


QUEEN  i^^STHER  SWEETS 149 

CHOCOLATE  CRiEAM  TAFFY. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  Yz 
square  of  chocolate.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and  when  done  add 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  with 
the  egg  beater  until  it  begins  to  sugar  around  the  kettle. 
Pour  in  buttered  pan  and  cut  into  squares. 

Irene  Sargent. 

HOME-MADE  TAFFY. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  2  cups  maple  syrup,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Put  into  saucepan  in  order 
given,  mix  well  and  boil  until  it  will  harden  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.    Pour  out  into  greased  tins,  to  cool. 

Miss  Kaley. 

CARAMELS. 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  Karo  corn  syrup. 
Mix  well  and  add  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  can  Borden's  con- 
densed milk  (18  cent  size.)  Mix  and  stir  well  while  boil- 
ing. Boil  until  brittle  in  cold  water.  Add  vanilla  and  nuts 
and  pour  out. 

Ruth  S.  Atwell. 

CREAM  NUT  BARS. 

Two  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  milk,  1  cup  chopped  nut  meats, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Boil  the  sugar 
and  milk  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Add  but- 
ter and  let  stand  to  cool.  When  cool,  add  nuts  and  vanilla. 
Beat  until  quite  hard,  turn  on  a  dampened  cloth,  knead  un- 
til creamy,  shape  into  roll  and  let  harden.  Cut  in  shape 
of  bars. 

Gladys  Smith. 

WALNUT  CREAM  BARS. 

Chop  quantities  of  walnuts  fine,  melt  over  slow  fire  the 
desired  quantity  of  fondant.  Add  the  nuts,  turn  into  pan 
lined  with  buttered  paper  and  cut  into  bars,  when  cold. 


150 QUEEN   ESTHER   SWEETS 

Finely  chopped  citron  and  raisins  can  be  used  the  same 
way. 

Rachel  Bangs  Jones. 

NUT  CANDY. 

Put  in  an  iron  kettle,  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  and  stir 
it  constantly  until  melted  as  quickly  as  possible.  Then 
stir  in  1  cup  peanuts  or  any  kind  of  nuts  preferred  and  pour 
out  into  buttered  pans  to  cool.  Brazil  nuts  make  a  rich 
candy. 

Elizabeth  Gascoigne. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

Three-fourths  cup  peanuts  rolled  fine.  Melt  1^  cups 
granulated  sugar,  add  nuts  and  pour  quickly  into  a  buttered 
tin. 

TURKISH  DELIGHT. 

To  1  box  of  Nelson's  gelatine  dissolved  in  1  cup  hot  wa- 
ter, add  Yz  cup  water  and  1  quart  granulated  sugar.  Boil 
together,  then  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange  and 
the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Boil  about  ten  minutes.  Before 
pouring  into  tins  add  Yz  lb.  walnut  meats.  Let  the  "De- 
light" remain  in  tins  over  night.  Cut  into  squares  and  roll 
in  powdered  sugar. 

Jane  Scott. 

ORANGE  CANDY. 

Two  cups  sugar,  juice  of  1  orange.  Boil  till  it  hardens 
in  water,  then  pull. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  CANDY. 

One  pint  maple  syrup,  1  lb.  cake  maple  sugar,  1  cup 
water,  butter  size  of  small  egg.  Boil  until  it  will  wax  in 
water.  Beat  while  cooling.  Add  1  cup  walnuts  just  be- 
fore pouring  into  pan. 

Mildred  Jones. 


QUEEN   ESTHER   SWEETS 151 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Boil,  but  do  not  stir,  un- 
til it  hardens  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  When  done 
stir  in  a  teaspoon  of  soda  and  beat  well.  Pour  in  buttered 
pans  and  when  cool  pull  until  white. 

ICE  CREAM  CANDY. 

Boil  together  3  cups  sugar,  }i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
Yz  cup  boiling  water,  ^  tablespoon  vinegar  without  stir- 
ring until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  the  mixture  becomes 
brittle.  Turn  out  on  a  well  buttered  platter  to  cool.  As 
edges  cool  fold  toward  center.  As  soon  as  it  can  be 
handled  pull  until  white  and  glossy.  While  pulling  flavor. 
Cut  into  sticks  or  small  pieces  as  desired. 

Ernestine  Leigh. 

FONDANT. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  enough  milk  to  dissolve  sug- 
ar, perhaps  ^  cup.  Stir  on  stove  till  dissolved,  do  not  let 
boil.  Remove  grains  of  sugar  around  edges  and  spoon. 
Boil  without  stirring,  try  in  water,  and  remove  from  stove 
when  it  makes  a  firm  but  not  a  crisp  ball.  Let  stand  in 
cold  water  until  you  can  bear  your  fingers  in  it,  then  stir 
and  beat,  then  knead  as  it  begins  to  harden.  Flavor  while 
creamy  and  add  chopped  nuts,  cocoanut,  candied  fruits  or 
anything  of  that  sort. 

Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Tomlinson. 

MARSHMALLOW  CHOCOLATE  FUDGE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2^^  squares  Baker's  choc- 
olate, yl  lb.  marshmallows,  1  teaspoon  butter.  Boil  sugar, 
milk  and  chocolate  for  a  few  minutes  before  putting  in 
butter.  Boil  until  it  makes  soft  balls  in  a  cup  of  cold 
water.  When  done  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  then  let  it  stand 
until  nearly  cool.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add 
marshmallows  cut  in  pieces.     Pour  on  buttered  plates  and 


152 QUEEN   ESTHER   SWEETS 

when  cool  cut  in  squares.     The  marshmallows  should  be 
left  in  pieces,  not  dissolved. 

Caroline  Spalding. 

DIVINITY  CANDY. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  J/^  cup  water,  ^  cup  Karo 
corn  syrup.  Boil  until  it  strings.  Pour  this  over  the  beat- 
en whites  of  two  eggs.    Add  vanilla  and  chopped  nuts. 

Mary  Harris. 

ORANGE  STICKS. 

Take  3  thick  skinned  oranges,  and  remove  the  peel  in 
sections.  Cut  into  narrow  strips  with  scissors  or  sharp 
knife.  Cover  with  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and 
cook  slowly  until  tender.  Make  syrup  of  1  cup  sugar  and 
Yz  cup  water.  Boil  until  it  hairs.  Drain  peel  from  water 
and  add  to  syrup.  Boil  for  3  minutes,  drain,  and  roll  in 
granulated  sugar. 

Eleanor  Holgate. 

TO  GLACE  FRUITS. 

The  fruit  must  be  perfectly  dry.  If  oranges,  separate 
each  section  carefully  without  breaking  the  inner  skin. 
Stand  them  in  a  warm  place  to  dry.  Put  two  cups  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  in  a  granite  saucepan,  moisten  it  with  Yz  cup 
of  water,  and  place  over  the  fire  to  boil.  Do  not  stir  after 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  gently  about  15  minutes,  or 
until  it  will  break  quickly  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  If 
brittle  without  being  sticky,  it  is  just  right.  The  syrup 
must  never  be  stirred.  Now  take  it  quickly  from  the  fire, 
add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  stand  in  a  basin  of 
boiling  water  to  keep  the  syrup  from  candying.  Take  fruit 
on  the  point  of  a  large  skewer,  or  with  the  sugar  tongs; 
dip  into  the  syrup  and  stand  in  a  warm,  dry  place  to  dry. 
English  walnuts  and  almonds  are  glaced  the  same  way.  Do 
not  attempt  to  glace  fruits  or  nuts  on  a  damp  day,  or  when 
there  is  any  steam  in  the  kitchen  from  other  cooking. 

Irene  Sargent. 


QUEEN   ESTHER   SWEETS 153 

BOLOGNA, 

One  pound  of  English  walnuts,  1  lb.  figs,  and  1  lb,  of 
dates.  Wash  and  stone  dates,  cut  out  hard  ends  of  the 
figs  and  shell  the  walnuts.  Chop  all  together  until  fairly 
fine;  then  butter  the  hands  and  knead  mixture  until  it 
clings  well  together.  Shape  with  hands  in  form  of  bologna 
and  set  away  in  a  cold  place, 

Irene  Sargent. 


A  Reputation  for  Correct 
Cooking  Knowledge  Stands  Back  of 

T^rsRorers 

OWN    BLEND 

Coffee 

Here  is  a  coffee,  the  most 
exquisite  in  taste,  with  no 
disagreeable  after  effects,  guar- 
anteed always  to  be  the  same 
— at  a  moderate  price. 
Mrs.  Rorer,  one  of  the  world's 
best  known  cooking  author- 
ities, spent  months  in  South 
America  selecting  the  planta- 
tions on  which  the  berries  for 
this  coffee  are  grown — the 
blend  is  the  result  of  her  long  experimenting — 
She  considers  it  the  finest  combination  possible — 
The  roasting  of  the  coffee  is  carried  on  in  a  mod- 
ern factory,  under  Mrs.  Rorer's  own  direction. 
It  is  the  coffee  Mrs.  Rorer  wanted 
fof    her  own  family   and  friends 

— it  was  at  the  wish  of  these  enthusiasts  that 
she  arranged  to  sell  this  coffee  nationally. 

Try  a  package  today — it  is  sealed  in  a  wonder- 
ful container  with  three  paraffine  layers — not 
one  whit  of  that  delicious  aroma  of  the  natural 
ber       is  lost. 

And  send  to  us  for  Mrs.  Rorer's  booklet  of 
recipes.  We'll  send  it  free — please  mention 
whether  or  not  your  grocer  carries  Mrs.  Rorer's 
coffee  when  you  write. 

Harry  B.  Gates,  President, 

Climax  Coffee  &  Baking 
Powder  Company 


Main  St. 


Indianapolis,  Ind.  U.  S.  A. 


One  sip  of  this 

Will  bathe  the  drooping  spirits  in 

delight, 
Beyond  the  bliss  of  dreams.'' 

— Milton. 

"Polly  put  the  kettle  on — 

(It  has  been  sterilized,  I  hope?) 

Polly  put  the  kettle  on — 

{And  zvashed  zvith  antiseptic  soap?) 

Polly  put  the  kettle  on — • 

{The  ivatcr's  filtered,  scrubbed, 
sun-dried,  dusted,  polished,  shak- 
en, brushed,  sifted,  pasteurized 
and  ironed  I  see!) 

Polly  put  the  kettle  on;  we'll  all 
take  tea." 


156 BEVERAGES 

COFFEE  (35  CUPS.) 

One  lb.  coffee  tied  up  loosely  in  4  cheesecloth  bags,  2 
gals,  water.  Let  water  come  to  a  boil,  then  drop  into  it  the 
bags  of  coffee.  Let  boil  about  30  minutes,  or  until  of  the 
required  strength,  then  remove  the  bags. 

RUSSIAN  TEA. 

Juice  from  18  lemons,  lYz  lbs.  sugar,  y^  lb.  "Golden 
Pekoe"  or  some  other  very  strong  tea.  Boil  sugar  in  3 
cups  water  for  20  minutes  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
cool  add  the  lemon  juice  strained  through  cheese-cloth. 
This  should  make  2  quarts.  Put  tea  into  a  cheese  cloth 
bag  and  bring  to  a  boil  in  1  quart  cold  water.  Simmer  5 
minutes  and  add,  after  cooling,  to  the  lemon  syrup.  This 
should  make  about  3  quarts.  Add  ice-water  to  make  7 
quarts. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Lindsey. 

TEA  PUNCH. 

Make  a  qt.  of  rich,  heavy  sugar  syrup  and  while  hot  pour 
over  1  cup  orange  juice,  1  cup  pineapple  juice,  and  Yz  cup 
strawberry  or  currant  or  cherry  juice  or  a  mixture  of  these 
if  preferred.  Let  stand  until  cool,  then  add  one  cup  of 
chopped  ice  to  thoroughly  cool.  Make  1  pint  strong  tea, 
mixture  of  English  breakfast  and  Orange  Pekoe  if  possible. 
Take  1  teaspoon  of  tea  for  each  cup  of  water  and  let  this 
water  be  freshly  boiled  and  just  come  to  a  boil.  Much  care 
must  be  taken  in  making  this  tea  as  the  success  depends 
upon  the  flavor  of  the  tea  which  should  be  there  supporting 
the  fruit  flavors  without  actual  detection  as  tea. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Eddy. 

CHOCOLATE  (16  CUPS.) 

Four  squares  Baker's  chocolate,  cut  fine,  2  teaspoons  corn- 
starch, 4  tablespoons  sugar,  1  pinch  salt.  Stir  all  together ; 
pour  over  3  cups  boiling  water  and  boil  five  minutes.  Add 
6  cups  boiling  milk.    Can  be  made  long  time  before  needed. 

Mrs.  N.  M.  Jones. 


BEVERAGES 157 

FRUIT  PUNCH. 

Boil  2  cups  sugar  and  1  quart  water  20  minutes.  Pour  it 
boiling  hot  over  the  following:  ^  cup  lemon  juice,  ^  cup 
orange  juice,  1  cup  strawberry  juice,  Yz  cup  canned  cherry 
syrup,  1  cup  chopped  pineapple.  When  ready  to  serve  di- 
lute with  ice  water  and  add  1  cup  fresh  strawberries  quart- 
ered, 1  banana  sliced  and  ^  cup  stoned  cherries. 

Mrs.  C.  N.  Stevens. 

ORANGE  MINT  CUP. 

Use  pulp  of  2  large  oranges.  Add  1  tablespoon  pow- 
dered sugar,  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  mint,  ^  table- 
spoon lemon  juice.  Chill  and  serve  in  cocktail  glasses, 
garnished  with  mint. 

Mildred  Johnson. 

RASPBERRY   SHRUB. 

Place  red  raspberries  in  a  stone  crock.  Put  in  just 
enough  good  cider  vinegar  to  cover  them.  Let  stand  over 
night,  then  squeeze  as  for  jelly.  Add  1  pint  granulated 
cane  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  10  minutes,  skim  if 
necessary,  seal  in  glass  jars. 

Mrs.  U.  S.  Grant. 

GRAPE  JUICE  WITHOUT  SUGAR. 

One  basket  of  thoroughly  ripe  Concord  grapes.  W^ash 
and  remove  from  stems.  Put  in  a  kettle  and  add  one  quart 
of  water.  Cook  until  grapes  are  thoroughly  done.  Strain 
through  a  jelly  bag.  Bring  juice  to  a  boil  and  pour  imme- 
diately into  bottles  and  seal. 

Mrs.  James  Edwin  Marshall. 

UNFERMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE. 

Six  pounds  concord  grapes  picked  from  stem,  6  quarts 
water.  Boil  until  skin  and  seeds  separate.  Strain  through 
colander.  Then  through  wire  sieve,  then  cheese  cloth. 
Add  1  lb.  loaf  sugar.  Boil  1^^  hours.  Bottle  while  hot. 
Keep  in  cool  place. 

Mrs.  N.  M.  Jones. 


Old  Dutclv 

Cleanser 


Miscellaneous 


'What's  there? 

Things   for   the    cook,   sir;   hut 
knozv  not  zvhat." 


160 MISCELLANEOUS 

TO  SET  COLOR  IN  WASH  GOODS. 

Soak  the  goods  for  several  hours  in  a  solution  of  sugar 
of  lead  in  water,  in  the  proportion  of  1  tablespoon  to  1 
gallon. 

To  make  a  lotion  for  the  hands,  use  two  ounces  of  bay 
rum,  two  ounces  of  glycerine  and  two  ounces  of  lemon 
juice. 

To    fringe   celery,   cut   the   stalks   in   two-inch   lengths. 
Stick  plenty  of  coarse  needles  into  a  cork;  draw  half  the 
stalk  through  the  needles.     When  done  lay  in  a  cold  place 
to  curl.    This  looks  well  as  a  garnish  for  sliced  chicken. 

Two  apples  placed  in  your  cake  box  will  keep  the  cake 
moist. 

Try  washing  your  silver  once  a  week  in  boiling  water 
with  a  teaspoon! ul  of  soda  in  it ;  then  wipe  quickly  on  a 
clean  dry  towel.  It  will  not  need  polishing  as  often  if 
treated  in  this  way. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  RUST  SPOTS. 

Wet  the  spot  with  water,  cover  with  equal  parts  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  salt.  Wet  often  and  keep  in  the  sunshine  until 
the  stain  is  gone.    Renew  the  application  if  necessary. 

Miss  Alice  Raddin. 

TO  SET  COLOR  IN  WASH  GOODS. 

To  a  pailful  of  water  just  below  the  boiling  point,  add 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  black  pepper.  Into  this  put  the 
goods  and  allow  it  to  remain  until  the  water  is  nearly  cool. 

Miss  Raddin. 

A  GOOD  FURNITURE  POLISH. 

Four  tablespoons  turpentine,  4  tablespoons  olive  oil,  1 
teaspoon  lemon  juice  and   10  drops  household  ammonia. 


MISCELLANEOUS 161 

This  polish  must  be  thoroughly  shaken  before  using,  and 
applied  with  an  old  flannel  or  silk  cloth.  Rub  briskly  and 
thoroughly.  Use  a  second  cloth  to  rub  the  mixture  into 
the  grain  of  the  wood  and  a  third  for  the  final  polish. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  Holgate. 


Your    weights    are    correct 
So  are  ours 

W.  E.  Barbour  &  Co. 

Wood,  Coal,  Coke, 
Flour,  Feed  &  Seeds 

Office  and  Yard  :  Private  Exchange  all  Departments 

Noyes  Street  and  C.  M.  &  St.  P.  Telephones: 

Railroad  Evanston  2600 

Evanston,  Illinois  Wilmette  155 

Careful  Measuring 

is  essential  in  Cooking 
EVEN  MORE 

Exact   Methods 

must  be  used  in  the  care  of  money 

City    Npdonal    Bank    gives 

especial   attention    to    small    details 

OFFICERS 

JOSEPH   F.  WARD,  President 
WILLIAM  S.  MASON,  Vice-President 
CHARLES    N.    STEVENS,   Cashier 
HURD  COMSTOCK,  Assistant  Cashier 

DIRECTORS 

FRANK   H.   ARMSTRONG  JOSEPH   B.   PADEN 

THOMAS    BATES  JAMES  A.  PATTEN 

DAVID  R.   FORGAN  HENRY   A.   PEARSONS 

WILLIAM   S.   MASON  JOSEPH   F.   WARD 


Table  of  Weights  and 
Measures 


'Measures,    not   men,    have   ahvays 
been  my  mark." 

— Oliver  Goldsmith. 


Table  of  Weights  and 

Measures 

In 

the    following   table   the   spoonful    is   measured 

level, 

then  cut  lengthwise  for  a  half  spoon  and  further 

divided  crosswise  for  a  quarter  spoon:                              1 

4  Salt  spoons  equal  1  teaspoon. 

3  Teaspoons  equal  1  tablespoon. 

4  Tablespoons  equal  ^  cup  or  ^  gill. 

2  Gills  equal  1  cup. 

2  Pints  equal  1  quart. 

4  Quarts  equal  1  gallon. 

1  Tablespoon  liquid  equals  ^  ounce. 

2  Tablespoons  butter  equals  1  ounce. 

4  Tablespoons  flour  equals  1  ounce. 

4  Tablespoons  salt  equals  1  ounce. 

3  Tablespoons  sugar  equals  1  ounce. 

1    Pint  brown  sugar  equals   12  ounces. 

Piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  equals  Wz  ozs. 

The  following  will  weigh  1  pound  each:                           | 

4  Cups  flour. 

2  Cups  butter. 

2  Cups  granulated  sugar. 

2^  Cups  powdered  sugar. 

3  Cups  meal. 

2  Cups  solid  meat. 

10  Eggs. 

1  Pint  finely  chopped  meat,  packed  solidly. 

One 

gallon  of  ice  cream  will  serve  25  persons. 

The  A.  F.  Johnson 
Dairy  Co. 

Invites  you  to  inspect  their  new 
plant,  when  you  will  understand  why 
they  can  sell  the  finest  grade  of 

Pure  Milk 
and  Cream 

Call  them  up  and  they  will  explain 
the  methods  they  use  for  giving  you 
from  the  selected  cows,  and  the 

Freshest  and  Purest  Milk 
Sold  in  Evanston 

under  the  name 

Special  Infant  Milk 

Come  and  visit  us.  Both  will  enjoy 
the  call.  You  will  be  placed  under 
no  obligations  to  us. 

Telephone    316 

622    CLINTON    PLACE 


Phone  that  order  to 
Aiken 

He  sells  the  very 
best  in  groceries 
and  meats   .... 

F.  J.  Aiken 

Phones  511  and  531  -  2002  Maple  Ave. 

Shirts  Done  by  Hand 

Our  work  gives  a  touch  of  individuality 
noticed  by  particular  people. 

Freeborn's    Hand    Laundry 

J.  C.  FREEBORN 

Telephone  Evanston  50  -:-  Through  line — No  toll 
6963  North  Clark  Street 

Thos.  E.  Connor 

Hardware 

House  Furnishing  Goods 

605-607  Davis  St.         -:-         Evanston,  111. 


TWO  STORES  IN   ONE 

Rhodin  Bros. 

Best  in  Groceries 

Telephone  1221 

R.  Huber 

Best  in  Meats 

Telephone  2817 

82  1     NO YES     STREET 

Where  a  Child  Fares  as  well  as  his  Father 

L.  H.  Butler 

Groceries  and  Meats 

1945  Maple  Ave.  Phones,  2440-2441 

A  Good  Cook  uses  only  the 
Best  Utensils 

We  have  them  and  will  be  pleased  to  fill 
your  order. 

North  Shore  Hardware  Company 

Telephone  11  618  DAVIS  STREET 


GROCERIES 

Meats,  Vegetables, 
Fruits,  in  fact, 
Everything  You 
Eat  at  Cut  Prices 

CHARGE     ACCOUNTS     SOLICITED 


Patronize 

our 
Advertisers 


m    U    1912 


One  copy  del.  to  Cat.  Div. 


JAN     20    \9\2 


iilii 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  489  071  1     # 


iillilillii 


