iHSSS 


3& 


liR 


BBJHm9fl 


Soboiih* 


J  90$ 


US? 


C.  A. 


CO. 


Exclusive  Agents 
for  the 

GLOBE -WERNICKE 

SECTIONAL 

BOOK  CASES 

and 

FILING  CASES 


Booksellers,   Stationers,    Bookbinders 
and  Printers 

OUR  SPECIALTIES 


BOOKS  of  all  kinds 

for  old  and  young 

SCHOOL  FURNITURE 
and  SUPPLIES 

COMMERCIAL 

STATIONERY 

PRINTING  and 

BINDING 

MAGAZINES  and 

PERIODICALS 

FOUNTAIN  PENS  from  Jobbers  of  PAPER  BAGS, 

$  I   to  $  1 0  each  WRAPPING  PAPER,  Etc. 

615-617  Fourth  Street* 
SANTA  ROSA         -         -         -         CALIFORNIA 


C.   A. 


CO. 


lassT^L^/JL 
Book  F$S 
Copyright  N° 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


□  □ 


THE  REAPPEAR 


BOOK  of  CHOICE  KECIPES 

COMPILED  BY 

The   Ladies'    Aid    Society 

of  the 

Fulton    Presbyterian    Church 
n 

PRICE  50  CENTS 

I  m  D 


Sonoma  County,  California 


1908 


□  □ 


u 


UBHARY  of  CONFESS* 
I  wo  Ooeies  itouewe* 

AUG  12   jyub 

CLASS  A  AXc,  No. 

C©PY     «*. 


Copyright,  1908, 

by  Ladies'  Aid  Society 

of  Fulton,  Calif. 


PRESS   OF 

C.  A.  WRIGHT  &  CO. 

SANTA  ROSA,    CAL 


Of  all  appeals— although 

I  grant  the  power  of  pathos  and  of  gold, 
Of  beauty,  flattery,  threats,  a  shilling— no 

Method's  more  sure  at  moments  to  take  hold 
Of  the  best  feelings  of  mankind,  which  grow 

More  tender,  as  we  every  day  behold, 
Than  that  all-softening,  overpowering  knell, 
The  Tocsin  of  the  soul— the  dinner  bell. 

—Byron. 


C0HTEHT 


Bread  7 

Soups     17 

Fish  23 

Entrees  31 

Meats  41 

Vegetables 49 

Salads 55 

Meat  Sauces 65 

Puddings  and  Desserts 71 


Pies  85 

Frozen  Dainties  and  Beverages  89 

Cakes  97 

Pickles 119 

Confectionery    127 

Breakfast  and  Luncheon   Dishes  131 

For  the  Invalid's  Tray 145 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures  149 


USE 


the  Best  Flour 


POKT  COSTA 


28   Per  Cent  Gluten 


"Would  you  know  how  first  he  met  her? 
She  was  cutting  bread  and  butter." 

—Goethe 


PERPETUAL  YEAST-Mrs.  Briggs 

A  quart  preserving  can  is  the  most  convenient  thing  to  start 
and  to  keep  this  yeast  in.  To  begin  a  can  of  this  perpetual 
yeast,  dissolve  a  compressed  yeast  cake  in  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
lukewarm  potato  water — that  is,  the  water  in  which  the  potatoes 
for  dinner  are  cooked.  Fill  a  quart  can  of  glass  half  full  of  luke- 
warm potato  water.  Add  half  a  cup  granulated  sugar  to  it,  and 
when  this  is  dissolved  add  the  quarter  of  a  cup  of  dissolved 
yeast.  Stir  well  and  set  the  can  containing  the  yeast  in  a 
moderately  warm  place,  but  not  where  it  will  be  heated  percep- 
tibly, and  let  it  stand  until  the  whole  is  very  light.  Seal  up  the 
can  and  the  day  before  you  are  ready  to  make  bread,  fill  the  can 
full  of  lukewarm  potato  water  and  add  another  half  cup  of  sugar. 
Let  the  can  stand  for  about  twenty-four  hours.  Beat  the  foam- 
ing white  yeast  and  use  a  pint,  or  half  the  can,  for  four  small 
or  three  large  loaves  of  bread.  Use  as  much  lukewarm  water 
as  you  do  of  yeast,  and  mix  the  bread  at  once,  kneading  it 
thoroughly.  Seal  up  the  can  of  yeast,  set  it  away  and  a  day  be- 
fore the  yeast  is  needed  fill  up  the  can  again  with  lukewarm 
potato  water,  in  which  the  potatoes  were  boiled,  and  a  half  cup 
sugar,  and  it  is  ready  for  use  again  when  it  is  risen. 

GRAHAM  BREAD -Mrs.  Baldwin 

Stir  into  a  quart  of  water  (warm  in  winter  and  cold  in  sum- 
mer) enough  wheat  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter,  also  a  cup  of 
yeast.  Let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  salt,  one-half 
tea  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  cup  of  boiling  water  and 
enough  Graham  flour  to  make  batter  thick  enough  to  pour  into 
well  greased  tins.  Let  rise  very  light  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 


8 
POTATO  CAKES- Mrs.  Eldredge 

One  quart  flour,  one  cup  mashed  potatoes,  one  half  cup  butter, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  little  salt.  Rub  butter  in  the 
flbur  dry,  then  add  potato,  milk  enough  to  moisten.  Roll  out  an 
inch  thick,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

RICE  GEMS-Mrs.  Wilkinson 

One  heaping  cup  flour,  two-thirds  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  one  and 
one-half  cups  sour  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  egg,  pinch 
salt,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Beat  hard  and  bake  in  buttered  gem 
pans,  in  hot  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

GOOD  BROWN  BREAD-Mrs.  A.  Faught 

One  cup  Indian  meal,  one  cup  of  rye,  one  cup  of  wheat  flour, 
one  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two 
teaspoons  soda.  Steam  four  hours  and  then  put  it  in  the  oven 
a  little  while. 

BISCUIT— Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Laughlin 

One  quart  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
tartar  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  all  together.  Rub  in  one  table- 
spoon lard,  mix  with  sweet  milk  to  soft  dough  and  bake  im- 
mediately. 

CORN  MEAL  GEMS— Mrs.  Bryant 

One  egg  beaten  well,  one  and  one-half  tablespoon  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one  heaping  cup  white 
flour,  one  scant  cup  corn  meal,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  gem  pans  about  twenty  minutes. 

POP-OVERS -Mrs.  Dornin 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  milk,  two  cups  flour,  pinch  of  salt.  Bake 
in  very  hot  well  greased  gem  pans  in  hot  oven. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD-Mrs.  MaKee 

Two  cups  cornmeal,  one  cup  flour,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  one 
cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  syrup,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon 
salt.  Boil  three  hours  in  a  two  quart  pail  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water. 

BREAKFAST  MUFFINS— Mrs.  Meacham 

Mix  two  cups  Yankee  Rye  meal,  one  cup  yellow  corn  meal, 
one  cup  whole  wheat  flour.  Add  tablespoon  salt  and  sift.  Dis- 
solve level  teaspoon  soda  in  about  two  tablespoons  warm  water, 


9 

add  it  to  one  and  a  half  pints  sour  milk  or  butter-milk.  Then  add 
to  this  one  cup  of  molasses.  Thoroughly  mix;  pour  over  dry  in- 
gredients, mixing  well.  Pour  into  greased  two-quart  molds, 
cover  tight,  and  steam  five  hours.  Lift  out,  allow  to  cool,  and 
bake  half  an  hour. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD— Mrs.  Wilkinson 

Three  eggs,  one  breakfast  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and  mix  with  the 
milk;  put  melted  butter  with  the  above  ingredients,  mixing  in 
flour  enough  to  make  batter.  Bake  in  round  tins,  and  when  al- 
most done  wash  the  top  of  each  with  a  feather  dipped  in  milk. 

POP-OVERS— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  cook  in  hot  oven. 

COFFEE  CAKE— Mrs.  Voss 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  strong  cold  coffee,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two 
teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  cup  raisins  or 
currants.  Add  the  fruit  last  rubbed  in  a  little  of  the  dry  flour. 
Bake  about  one  hour. 

CORN  BREAD  (New  Orleans)— Mrs.  Baldwin 

One  and  one-half  pints  corn  meal,  one-half  pint  flour,  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoons 
Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  tablespoon  lard,  one  and  one-quarter 
pints  milk,  two  eggs.  Sift  together  corn  meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt 
and  powder;  rub  in  lard  cold,  add  eggs  (beaten)  and  the  milk. 
Mix  into  a  moderately  stiff  batter;  pour  'from  bowl  into  a  shal- 
low cake-pan.     Bake  in  rather  hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

MARYLAND  BISCUIT— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Rub  one  tablespoon  butter  and  one  tablespoon  lard  into  one 
quart  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Use  the  hands  in  mixing  dough.  When  the  milk,  flour  and 
shortening  have  been  thoroughly  mixed,  flour  the  bread-board,  lay 
dough  on  it  and  beat  it  with  rolling  pin  until  it  blisters  and  cracks 
loudly.  This  beating  will  occupy  at  least  one-half  hour.  When 
the  blisters  are  abundant,  tear  off  pieces  of  dough  as  large  as 
an  egg,  mold  with  hand  in  form  of  a  biscuit.  Prick  the  top  of 
each  biscuit  with  fork  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 


10 


It  is  a  well  understood  fact  it  never  fails  to  give  the  best  results 
if  properly  handled 

USE  NO  OTHER       -       -       -       TAKE  NO  SUBSTITUTE 

"Rose  Brand" 

IS  THE  FLOUK 
SANTA     ROSA     FLOUR     MILL     CO. 

Dealers  in 

Grain  and  Mill  Feed  of  All  Kinds 

PHONE  BLACK  2072  -  -  -  -  SANTA  KOSA,  CAL 


11 

TREMONT  HOUSE  ROLLS— Mrs.  A.  Faught 

Take  two  quarts  of  flour,  add  one  teaspoon  salt;  make  a  hole 
in  the  middle  and  put  into  it  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  butter 
about  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  pint  of  boiled  milk  and  one  teacup- 
ful  of  yeast.  Do  not  stir,  but  put  them  together  and  knead  fif- 
teen minutes.  Set  in  cool  place  for  six  hours  and  then  roll  out 
about  one-half  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Moisten 
one  edge  with  butter,  and  fold  together  like  rolls;  lay  in  the  pan 
so  they  will  not  touch.  Set  for  half  hour  in  a  warm  place  to  rise 
and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

FRENCH  ROLLS— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

At  noon  scald  one  pint  of  new  milk  and  let  cool.  Sift  two 
quarts  flour  into  which  rub  two  tablespoons  butter  and  then  make 
a  hole  in  the  center.  Stir  a  spoonful  of  yeast  and  two  table- 
spoons sugar  into  your  milk,  then  put  all  into  the  center  of  flour. 
Let  it  stand  several  hours  until  foaming,  then  mix  in  all  the  flour 
cover  and  set  away  over  night.  In  morning  knead  it  down  and 
set  to  rise  again.  Roll  out  not  too  thin,  spread  over  with  butter, 
and  cut  in  rounds  lapping  one  edge.  Do  not  place  the  rolls  near 
together  in  the  pan.  Let  them  rise  about  two  hours,  then  bake 
in  quick  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

MUFFINS- Mrs.  A.  Faught 

One  pint  new  milk,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  cup  home-made  yeast.  Mix 
with  flour  until  a  very  stiff  batter  is  formed;  leave  in  a  warm 
place  over  night  and  bake  in  the  morning  in  rings. 

CORN  MEAL  GEMS— Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Laughlin 

One  egg  and  one  tablespoon  sugar  beaten  together,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  heaping  cup  corn  meal,  two  tablespoons  flour 
in  which  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder  has  been  well  mixed, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.     Stir  well  and  bake  in  hot  gem-pans. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD- Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Laughlin 

Three  cups  graham  flour,  two  cups  corn  meal,  one  cup  flour, 
three  cups  butter,  or  clabber  in  which  several  tablespoons  sour 
cream  are  mixed;  one  cup  syrup  or  molasses,  one  pinch  salt,  two 
teaspoons  soda.  Steam  three  hours.  This  quantity  fills  seven 
one-pound  baking-powder  cans. 


12 


GUARANTEED 

Our  New  Process  is  making  New  Customers 

for  our  FLOUR  irSFINE 


TRY      A     SACK 


Golden  Eagle  Milling  Co. 


DEALERS     IN 


Hay*  Grain*  Feed  and  all  Poultry  Supplies 

PETALUMA,  CAL 

ijw;.i    hi— n«iii  >    w,f  m    n     i     i     iiiiimiiii  tui^M>B»MTjy>  i  ■  — wMMMiiurapa^— »M— — 

SCHELLING  GARAGE 
Automobiles,  Bicycles,  Sporting  Goods 


GEO.     C.    SCHELLING,     PROPRIETOR 
405-407  Fourth  St.,  Santa  Rosa 


13 
DELICIOUS  BREAD-Mrs.  J.  W.  Mitchell 

One  quart  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  teaspoons  baking- 
powder  sifted  together  dry.  Rub  in  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg.  Add  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  and  milk  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  until  well  blistered,  then  fold  in  the 
whites  of  eggs. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS— Mrs.  E.  S.  Denner 

Sift  into  a  bowl  one  quart  of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  a 
teaspoon  of  salt;  melt  one-fourth  cup  of  butter  in  a  generous 
half-pint  of  milk,  warmed;  add  to  the  dry  ingredients  with  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  half  a  good  yeast  cake  dis- 
solved in  water,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  This  will  make  a  very  soft  dough. 
Cover  in  warm  place,  and  let  rise  until  light.  When  raised,  take 
out  on  well-floured  board,  and  mold  pieces  the  size  of  an  egg, 
flatten,  and  place  in  buttered  pan,  allowing  space  between. 
Cover  and  put  to  rise  until  they  double  in  size,  then  make  a 
cross  in  the  top  of  each,  and  bake  in  steady  oven  half  an  hour. 
Brush  the  top  over  with  syrup  made  from  sugar  and  a  little 
water  to  glaze. 

GERMAN  COFFEE  CAKE- Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

One  cup  scalded  milk,  two  cakes  compressed  yeast,  one-fourth 
cup  water,  one-third  cup  melted  butter,  one-fourth  cup  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  egg,  grating  of  lemon  rind,  flour. 
Make  a  sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast  softened  in  the  water,  and 
flour;  when  light  add  the  other  ingredients  and  flour  to  make  a 
very  stiff  batter;  beat  thoroughly;  when  light  again  spread  in  a 
buttered  dripping-pan,  cover  and  let  rise.  When  ready  for  the 
oven,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg  and  dust  thickly  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon,  mixed.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

SALLY  LUNN-Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

One  cup  scalded  milk,  one  cup  boiled  water,  one-half  cake 
compressed  yeast  in  one-half  cup  luke-warm  water,  three  cups 
flour  one  teaspoonful  salt,  four  eggs,  well-beaten,  one  cup  but- 
ter mixed  with  lard,  one  quart  flour.  At  eleven  o'clock  a.  m. 
make  a  sponge  of  the  milk,  water,  yeast,  and  three  cups  of  flour. 
When  light,  at  about  half-past  one,  add  the  eggs,  shortening, 
salt,  and  the  quart  of  flour,  beat  hard  and  turn  into  the  pans  in 
which  it  is  to  be  baked.    Bake  for  tea. 


14 


BROOKS  CLOTHING  CO. 

CLOTHIERS  and  HATTERS 


RELIABLE     GOODS 


AT    THE 


LOWEST       PRICES 


509  FOURTH  ST. 


SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 


G.  J.  R  EADING 


C.  D.  BAR  NETT 


^HCfT  ami  ®K*&ttk 

fcjP*  SUCCESSORS    TO  ^ tm 


EARDLEY- BARNETT    CO. 


Real    Estate    and    Insurance 


AGENCY 


Aetna,  American  N.  J.,  Phoenix  of  London,  Sun 
and  other  first  class  companies 


62  9    Fourth    Street       -      »       Sftllta  R6M3   Gal- 


"Appetite  comes  with  eating,  says  Augeston." 

—Rabelais. 

SOUP  STOCK 

To  a  two-bit  shin  of  beef  I  add  what  beefsteak  and  meatbones 
I  may  have,  add  six  quarts  of  water,  cover  tightly,  and  boil 
gently  all  day.  Strain  at  night  and  set  away  to  cool.  The  next 
day  skim  the  fat  from  it  and,  if  the  stock  is  not  a  thick  jelly, 
put  it  on  the  stove  and  boil  still  longer.  This  should  make  three 
quarts  of  rich  jelly,  to  which  you  can  add  rice,  barley,  macaroni, 
vermicelli  or  vegetables,  or  whatever  you  fancy,  as  a  flavoring. 
The  fat  I  skim  from  the  soup  I  put  on  the  stove  and  boil  until 
it  is  transparent,  pour  it  into  a  small  pan  or  tin  and  use  it  in  the 
place  of  butter  or  lard  for  cooking.  It  is  much  superior  to  but- 
ter or  lard  for  frying  or  shortening. 

BEAN  SOUP-Mrs.  Ford 

Wash  and  boil  your  beans  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork.  When 
the  beans  are  soft  take  them  out  and  press  through  a  colander, 
then  put  them  back  in  the  water  they  were  boiled  in,  together 
with  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  quartered,  and  half  a  lemon  sliced, 
a  little  pepper  and  salt.     Boil  up  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Boil  two  bunches  of  asparagus  one-half  hour.  Put  one  quart 
milk  on  stove,  press  tender  stalks  through  colander  into  milk. 
Thicken  with  two  tablespoons  flour  rubbed  into  one  tablespoon 
butter.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  hot.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP-Mrs.  A.  L.  House 

One  quart  milk,  one  can  tomatoes  strained,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda  in  tomatoes  just  before  removing  from  the  stove.  Butter 
size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  two  crackers 
rolled  fine.  Heat  milk  and  tomatoes  separately.  Mix  in  tureen 
just  before  serving. 

OYSTER  STEW— Mrs.  R.  H.  Thomson 

One  can  of  best  cove  oysters,  one  quart  sweet  milk,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


18 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  to  this  add  the  milk. 
When  it  has  reached  the  boiling  point  thicken  with  the  flour 
into  which  the  butter  has  been  rubbed.  When  this  has  boiled, 
pour  over  the  oysters  which  are  in  the  soup  tureen  and  serve 
immediately. 

POTATO  SOUP-Mrs.  Eldredge 

Four  medium  sized  potatoes  cut  in  very  small  pieces.  Pour  on 
one  quart  boiling  water,  little  salt,  pepper  and  good  slice  of  but- 
ter. Let  boil  until  soft.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  one  teaspoon  of  flour  mixed  with  cold  water,  two  cups 
of  milk  and  let  boil  up  once. 

ONION  SOUP-Mrs.  Bryant 

Slice  and  fry  six  large  onions  until  quite  brown,  add  two 
quarts  rich  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Thicken  with  two  tablespoons  flour 
mixed  with  cold  water.     Serve  very  hot. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP-Mrs.  R.  H.  Thomson 

One  cup  split  peas,  one  and  one-half  pounds  lean  neck  of  beef 
(no  bone) ,  two  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  three  quarts  cold  water. 
Wash  and  soak  peas  for  an  hour,  cut  meat  in  small  pieces.  Put 
all  together  in  soup  kettle  and  cook  for  three  hours;  you  may 
have  to  add  some  boiling  water  at  the  last.  When  done  thicken 
with  one  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  one-half  cup  of 
creamy  milk;  strain  and  serve  with  toast  bread  cubes. 

CREAM  CELERY  SOUP-Mrs.  S.  E.  Polhemus 

Take  the  root  and  several  stalks  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces, 
cover  with  water  (being  careful  not  to  use  too  much)  add  a  lump 
of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  until  celery  is  tender,  then 
add  a  quart  of  milk  and  let  come  to  the  boiling  point.  Take  three 
or  four  slices  of  bread  cut  in  small  squares  and  fry  in  a  little 
butter  to  a  light  brown,  place  in  tureen  and  pour  the  soup  over 
them. 

BEAN  SOUP-Mrs.  R.  H.  Thomson 

One  large  cup  of  small  white  beans,  two  pounds  lean  neck  of 
beef.  Soak  the  beans  over  night  and  boil  three-fourths  of  an 
hour,  changing  water  twice.  Put  the  beans  into  the  soup  kettle 
with  the  meat,  cook  until  the  beans  can  not  be  found,  and  the 
meat  to  shreds.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  a  cup  of  creamy 
milk,  strain  and  serve.  This  is  also  nice  with  toast  cubes 
instead  of  crackers. 


19 
CLAM  SOUP-Mrs.  SamuelJ.  Holms 

Place  one  pint  clams  in  bowl  and  chop  very  fine.  Put  one 
quart  milk  on  the  stove  with  the  liquor  of  the  c'ams,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Roll  four  or  five  crackers  and  sprinkle  in 
milk.  Chop  fine  one  small  piece  of  onion  and  let  all  boil  up. 
Just  before  removing  from  the  fire  put  in  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut. 

CLAM  CHOWDER— Mrs.  W.  P.  Slusser 

One  dozen  and  one-half  of  clams.  Scrub  shells  and  place  in 
a  kettle  over  the  fire.  Cover  with  one  quart  of  boiling  water. 
As  soon  as  shells  open,  remove  from  fire.  Save  the  water.  Chop 
fine  a  little  salt  pork,  and  slice  four  large  potatoes  thin.  Put 
pork  in  kettle;  after  frying  until  brown  add  strained  water  and 
the  juice  of  the  clams,  the  potatoes,  and  three  onions  sliced  thin. 
Simmer  one  and  one-quarter  hours.  Add  a  quart  of  milk,  or 
water  if  preferred,  cook  fifteen  minutes  longer,  add  clams  and 
serve. 

TOMATO  FOR  SOUPS,  SAUCES,  ETC.— Mrs.  M.  J.  Granger 

Skin  and  boil  tomatoes,  then  strain  free  from  seeds.  Then 
boil  down  as  thick  as  possible  without  burning,  and  bottle  hot 
in  glass  jars  or  bottles  that  can  be  made  air  tight,  the  same  as 
in  canning  fruit.  Small  bottles  are  preferable  to  large  ones,  as 
it  does  not  keep  well  after  being  opened.  The  pulp  after  being 
boiled  down,  can  also  be  dried,  by  being  spread  thinly  on  buttered 
plates.     The  dried  pulp  readily  dissolves  in  soup. 

NOODLES— Mrs.  E.  S.  Denner 

Into  two  eggs  work  with  a  knife  as  much  flour  as  possible, 
also  a  pinch  of  salt.  Turn  out  on  molding-board  and  mold  well, 
using  plenty  of  flour.  Roll  very  thin,  and  leave  for  two  or  three 
hours  to  dry.  Cut  in  equal  pieces  and  place  one  above  the  other, 
then  cut  in  thin  strips  and  shake  loosely  apart.  Put  into  rapidly 
boiling  water  for  ten  minutes.  Have  ready  frying-pan  with  a 
good  piece  of  butter  melted  and  hot;  remove  the  noodles  with  a 
skimmer,  let  drain  a  minute,  then  put  into  the  pan  with  the 
butter  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve.  Good  with  or  without  meat. 

FRENCH  SOUP-Mrs.  E.  S.  Denner 

In  a  strong,  clear  soup,  just  before  serving,  add  two  well 
beaten  eggs  very  gradually.     Pour  into  tureen  at  once. 

We  Guarantee  All  Our  Cooking  Utensils  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


20 


I 


E.  R.  SAWYER  j 

JEWELER  | 

I  \ 

529  FOURTH  STREET  SANTA  ROSA.CAL  I 


The  BEST  RECEIPT  FOR.  TIRED  FEET 
is 

R.    C.   MOODEY    ®    SON'S 
Footwear 

Jffrank  flL  HonmtH 

LEADER    IN 

FINE     -    -     DRESS     -    -     GOODS 

Trimmings,  Fancy  Goods,  Hosiery,  Underwear 
Ladies'  and  Gents'  Furnishings 

521  FOURTH  STREET    -    -    SANTA  ROSA 

PHONE  MAIN  40 

McHAKVEY 

MILLINERY    IMPORTER 

OPPOSITE  HOTEL  OVERTON 
5II   FOUiVTH  STREET  SANTA  KOSA,  CAL 


"The  silvery  fish, 
Grazing  at  large  in  meadows  submarine, 
Fresh  from  the  wave  now  cheers 
Our  festive  board." 

—Anon 


FISH— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 


Pick  to  pieces,  fish  previously  boiled,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  mix  in  rolled  crackers  or  bread  crumbs,  cover  with 
cream  and  bake. 

CREAMED  SALMON— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  one-half  pint  milk  and  as  much  cream, 
two  tablespoons  butter  and  two  tablespoons  flour.  Melt  butter, 
stirring  in  flour  and  diluting  with  hot  cream  and  milk.  Season 
with  salt,  cayenne,  and  nutmeg.  To  this  add  a  can  of  nice  sal- 
mon freed  from  skin  and  bone.  Stir  until  hot  and  serve  in  little 
individual  cases. 

FILLETS  OF  FISH  WITH  BECHAMEL  SAUCE— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Slice  salmon  or  any  white  fish;  fry  lightly  in  butter  for  six 
minutes,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  crumbs,  season,  dot 
thickly  with  butter  and  place  in  a  good  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Serve  with  a  sauce  made  by  melting  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
rub  smoothly  in  this  one  of  flour,  and  dilute  with  a  half  pint  of 
stock  made  from  chicken  or  veal;  season  nicely,  lift  out  fish, 
sprinkle  thickly  with  minced  parsley  and  pour  the  sauce  over. 
You  can  prepare  the  fish  beforehand,  cooking  it  only  ten  min- 
utes, and  then  merely  place  in  the  oven  to  heat  while  the  soup 
is  being  served.  The  sauce  will  keep  if  stood  in  a  vessel  of  hot 
water. 


24 
CREAMED  OYSTERS— Mrs.  Samuel  J.  Holms 

One-half  teacup  of  butter  melted  in  a  sauce-pan.  Add  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour.  Cook  a  few  minutes  and  stir  in 
gradually  one  cup  of  milk,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil 
one  pint  of  fresh  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  until  plump,  drain, 
and  place  on  squares  of  buttered  toast.  Pour  the  sauce  over 
and  serve  immediately. 

HALIBUT  STEAK- Mrs.  R.  H.  Thomson 

Cut  fish  one  and  one-half  inches  thick,  remove  the  bones  and 
skin.  Place  in  cold  water  and  salt  one  hour  before  cooking, 
drain  and  wipe.  Dip  pieces  of  fish  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  crack- 
er crumbs,  submerge  in  hot  fat  and  fry  until  a  delicate  brown, 
Remove  with  wire  skimmer  and  serve  immediately,  Cooked  in 
this  way  it  retains  its  delicate  flavor  and  is  free  from  grease. 

OKRA  GUMBO  (Creole) —Mrs.  H.  H.  Brooks 

One  onion,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  parsley,  thyme,  two  cloves 
of  garlic,  salt  to  taste,  one  slice  of  ham,  three  dozen  shrimps, 
one-half  dozen  crabs,  two  large  tomatoes,  one-half  pod  of  red 
pepper  (without  seeds) ,  one  bay  leaf,  fifty  green  okra  pods,  cut 
fine.  Cut  ham  in  small  squares,  put  into  lard  and  let  brown; 
then  put  in  onions,  parsley,  and  thyme.  Skin  and  chop  fine  the 
tomatoes  and  put  in,  saving  out  the  juice.  Let  cook  ten  min- 
utes and  put  in  the  flour.  When  brown  put  in  the  crabs  and  let 
cook  another  ten  minutes,  covering  tight.  Then  put  in  chopped 
okra,  and  watch  carefully,  as  okra  burns  easily.  When  okra 
browns  put  in  two  quarts  of  water  with  the  tomato  juice;  set 
back  on  the  stove  and  let  simmer  for  about  an  hour  longer.  Put 
in  the  shrimps  (prepared  by  scalding  and  removing  the  shells 
or  skin)  about  twenty  minutes  before  serving.  Serve  hot  with 
boiled  rice.  (Prepare  the  crabs  by  scalding  or  boiling  about  five 
minutes.  When  cool  enough  cut  off  claws  and  crack,  separating 
the  joints.  Remove  the  "apron,"  the  spongy  substance,  and 
the  shell,  and  cut  the  body  into  four  parts,  cutting  down  the 
center  and  across. ) 

BAKED  HALIBUT  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE— Mrs.  M.  D.  Brown 

Two  pounds  fish.  Cook  two  cups  tomatoes  with  one  cup  water, 
one  slice  onion,  three  cloves,  and  one-half  tablespoonful  sugar. 


25 

Cook  twenty  minutes.  Melt  three  tablespoonfuls  butter,  add 
three  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  into  hot  mixture.  Add  three- 
quarters  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  cook  ten 
minutes  and  strain.  Put  fish  in  baking  dish,  pour  around  it  one- 
half  of  the  sauce,  and  bake  forty-five  minutes,  basting  often. 
Remove  to  hot  platter,  pour  on  remaining  sauce,  garnish  with 
parsley. 

LOBSTER.  IN  CREAM  SAUCE— Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

Lobster  meat,  cut  in  dice,  may  be  mixed  with  an  equal  bulk 
of  cream  sauce  and  served  in  patty  cases,  shells,  etc.  In  mak- 
ing the  sauce,  chicken,  fish,  or  lobster  stock  and  milk,  or  cream, 
may  be  used,  either  alone,  or  half  and  half. 

FISH  CHOPS— Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

(canned  salmon  or  any  remnants  of  cooked  fish) 

If  canned  salmon  be  used,  drain  the  oil  from  the  can,  remove 
the  skin  and  bones  and  pick  the  fish  fine  with  a  silver  fork;  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Make  a 
cup  of  white  sauce,  using  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  butter  and  one- 
fourth  cup  of  flour;  add  the  fish  and  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley.  When  the  mixture  is  thoroughly  cold,  form  into  chops. 
Egg  and  bread-crumb  them,  adding  a  little  chopped  parsley  to 
the  crumbs.  Put  a  piece  of  macoroni  into  the  end  of  the  chop, 
to  represent  the  chop  bone,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Arrange  a 
crouton  of  bread  in  the  centre  of  a  serving-dish;  upon  this  place 
a  dish  filled  with  sauce  Tartare  (or  other  fish  sauce),  and  set 
the  chops  against  and  around  the  bread. 

Sauce  Tartare; — To  a  pint  of  Mayonnaise  sauce,  made  with 
Tarragon  vinegar  and  mustard,  add  a  shallot  chopped  fine,  one- 
fourth  cup  each  of  fine  chopped  capers,  olives,  and  cucumber 
pickles,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  Tarragon.  Half  a  teaspoonful  of  onion 
juice  may  take  the  place  of  the  shallot. 

CRAB  a  La  CREOLE— Mrs.  Chas.  Hoffer 

Put  into  a  sauce-pan  a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  four 
young  onions  cut  into  rings,  two  green  peppers  chopped  fine, 
one  small-sized  tomato,  salt,  black  pepper,  and  a  little  cayenne. 


26 


READ  THE  REPUBLICAN 


The  Leading  Sonoma  County  Newspaper 

THE     REPUBLICAN 


HAS    THE 


BEST  EQUIPPED  JOB  PRINTING  HOUSE  IN  SANTA  ROSA 

531-533    FIFTH    STREET 

ST.  ROSE  DRUG  STORE 

Cor.  FourtH  and  A.  Sts. 
The  best  place  in  Santa  Rosa  to  buy  your 

DRUGS  and  FAMILY  MEDICINES 

PERFUMES,  TOILET 

ARTICLES,  Etc. 

We  Give  You  Only  the  Best  in  Our  Line 

Wm.  McK.  Stewart  -   -  Proprietor 


27 

Stew  gently  five  or  six  minutes,  then  dredge  in  a  very  little 
flour,  and  add  a  very  little  good  cream.  Pick  the  meat  from  two 
crabs,  put  into  the  sauce,  stew  two  minutes,  and  serve  on  toast. 

CRAB  a  La  NEWBURG— Miss  Marion  W.  Thomson 

Take  two  whole  crabs,  or  one  good  sized  can  of  crab,  cut  up 
in  small  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  shelled  almond.  Put  in  the 
same  pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Season 
with  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste.  Thicken  with  heavy  cream 
sauce,  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  pour  out  on  squares  of  crisp 
buttered  toast.  Sauce:  One  ounce  butter  melted  in  sauce-pan, 
two  ounces  flour  mixed  with  butter.  Thin  with  boiling  cream 
and  cook  till  it  is  slightly  thickened. 

DEVILLED  CRAB— Mrs.  R.  H.  Thomson 

To  the  meat  of  one  crab  add  the  following  dressin'g:  one  hard- 
boiled  egg,  rubbing  the  yolk  in  one  tablespoon  melted  butter; 
add  to  this  three-fourths  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  cayenne  pep- 
per, mustard,  and  salt  to  taste;  one  and  one-half  mustard-spoons 
made  mustard;  then  stir  in  the  yolk  of  a  well  beaten  raw  egg, 
and  add  the  white,  having  first  beaten  it  separately ;  then  add 
the  chopped  white  of  the  hard-boiled  egg,  one  soda-cracker 
rolled,  and  two  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Bake  to  a  delicate 
brown  either  in  shells  or  ramekins.  Serve  with  wafers  and  a 
piece  of  lemon. 


28 


F.     A.     EMEKY 

WINDSOR 
BUTCHER     and     LIVERYMAN 


ESTABLISHED     1892 


Dealer  in  fresh  Beef,  Mutton,  Pork  and  Veal 

which    is    delivered    to    Mark    West,  Fulton, 

Trenton,  Mt.  Olivet  and  surrounding  country. 

Live  Stock  Purchased 


To  Preserve 
the  Eyesight 


Infant's  eyes  should  not  be  exposed  to  intense  sunlight; 
if  left  to  wink  and  blink  at  the  sun  permanent  bad  effects 
may  result  to  the  retina  or  other  parts  of  the  eye. 

Vision  is  a  mechanical  function,  and  as  few  eyes  are 
proportioned  so  as  to  give  perfect  sight,  the  sooner  marked 
defects,  indicated  by  eyeache,  headache,  inflamed  eyes  and 
lids  are  corrected  with  glasses  the  better  for  either  children 
or  adults.  No  strain,  no  pain.  No  injury  to  an  organ,  no 
disease  of  it.  Glasses  fitted  by  us  will  give  perfect  vision 
and  keep  the  eyes  healthy  and  strong. 

Lawson-Rinner  Optical  Co* 

535   FOURTH  ST.  SANTA  ROSA 


"The  turnpike  road  to  people's  hearts  I  find 
Lies  through  their  mouths,  or  I  mistake  mankind." 

—Dr.  Wolcot 

PATTY  SHELLS— Mrs.  Bryant 

One  pint  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  half  teaspoon 
salt.  Sift  all  together.  One-half  pound  good  butter,  work  half 
the  butter  by  degrees  into  the  prepared  flour  and  mix  with  a 
little  more  than  a  gill  of  cold  water  or  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Roll  out  the  paste  and  strew  over  it  a  part  of  remain- 
ing butter,  divided  into  little  pieces  dredged  with  flour.  Roll 
up  dough  like  jelly  roll,  and  roll  out  again.  Repeat  latter  pro- 
cess once  more  and  add  remaining  butter.  Roll  one-half  inch 
thick,  cut  into  rounds  two  inches  in  diameter.  Press  a  small 
cutter  one  inch  in  diameter  on  each  round  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
deep.     Place  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  brown. 

CHICKEN  AND  OYSTER  PATTIES-Mrs.  House 

Put  two  tablespoons  butter  and  three  of  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  white  pepper  on  the  fire, 
and  when  melted  and  mixed  well,  add  one  pint  cream  or  rich 
milk.  Stir  until  it  thickens,  then  add  one  pint  diced  chicken. 
Simmer  five  minutes,  then  add  one  pint  oysters  (drained),  and 
cook  until  edges  curl.     Fill  heated  patty  shells  and  serve. 

OYSTERS  a  La  RICHELIEU— Mrs.  A.  L.  House 

Put  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  chafing  dish.  When  melted 
add  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika,  two  tablespoons  chopped  celery 
and  two  dozen  large  oysters  free  from  liquor.  Cook  and  when 
plump  add  four  tablespoons  of  sherry  and  serve  on  hot  buttered 
toast. 

DEVILED  CRAB— Mrs.  A.  L.  House 

One  crab,  two  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  two  (2)  table- 
spoons cracker  crumbs  rolled  very  fine,  juice  of  one  lemon,  two 
tablespoons  sherry,  red  pepper,  salt;  mix  well.  Butter  size  of 
an  egg;  flour  to  thicken.  Cook,  then  thin  with  milk  and  season 
with  salt,  spoonful  mustard  and  mace.  Mix  well  with  the  crab, 
sift  over  cracker  crumbs  and  cover  with  bits  of  butter.  Heat  in 
oven  until  nice  brown. 


32 
THE    RIGHT     PLACE    TO    TRADE 


THE 


Santa  Rosa  Department  Store 

ALL    DEPARTMENTS    OF    THE    HOUSEHOLD 
SUPPLIED    UNDER    ONE   ROOF 


Dry    Goods,   Boots    and    Shoes,   Crockery,    Kitchenware, 

Toys,  Hardware,  Tools,  Sewing  Machines, 

Stationery,  Notions,  Etc. 

The  Santa  Rosa  Department  Store 

432-434  FOURTH  ST.  -  -   SANTA  ROSA 


KEEGAN  BKOS. 

Santa  Kosa 

SPECIALIZING 

Hart,    Schaffher    &-    Marx     Clothes 

Knox   and   Stetson   Hats 

Waterhouse  Cravats 


33 
JUGGED  PIGEONS— Mrs.  Chas.  Hoffer 

Clean  and  wash  well  and  stuff  with  a  dressing  made  of  the 
giblets  boiled  and  chopped,  a  slice  of  fat  pork,  the  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  to  a  powder,  seme  bread  crumbs,  pep- 
per and  salt,  bound  with  a  beaten  raw  egg.  Tie  the  legs  and 
wings  close  to  their  bodies  and  pack  the  pigeons  in  a  tin  pail 
with  a  tight  top.  Plunge  this  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  put 
a  weight  on  top  to  keep  it  steady,  and  cook  two  hours  and  a 
half.  The  water  should  not  boil  over  the  top.  Drain  all  the 
gravy  into  a  saucepan,  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  season,  boil  up,  pour  over  the  pigeons,  cover  again,  and 
leave  in  the  boiling  water  ten  minutes  before  serving. 

CHICKEN  and  PEAS  SPANSIH-Mrs.  M.  E.  Slusser 

Take  the  giblets,  one  onion  sliced,  a  little  parsley,  and  grated 
lemon  peel,  put  them  into  a  frying-pan  with  butter  and  cock 
slowly.  Cut  up  two  chickens,  add  it  with  some  sliced  ham  or 
bacon  and  fry  brown.  In  a  separate  stew-pan  put  a  little  gravy, 
salt,  pepper,  one  teaspoon  oil,  one  of  tarragon  vinegar,  and  the 
fowl  and  ham;  also  chop  the  heart  and  liver  and  some  of  the 
onion  and  parsley  fine  and  add  it;  then  put  in  one  quart  of 
green  peas,  and  cook  all  gently  until  the  peas  are  done.  Put 
the  peas  in  center  of  warm  platter,  chicken  around  them,  and 
serve. 

SIMPLE  WELSH  RABBIT- Miss  Annie  K.  Voss 

Make  three  large  slices  of  toast  and  cut  into  halves;  butter 
them  and  slightly  moisten  them  with  hot  water;  put  them  into 
the  oven  on  a  platter.  Put  a  half  cup  of  milk  into  a  double 
boiler,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  two  cups  grated  cheese  and  stir 
until  smooth;  then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  a 
half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper;  as  soon  as  it 
thickens  pour  it  on  the  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

CROQUETTE  MIXTURE— Mrs.  C.  B.  Laughlin 

Three  quarters  cup  rich  milk,  one  rounded  tablespoonful  flour, 
one  rounded  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  white  pepper,  one  teaspoon  chopped  paraley  and 
one  of  chopped  onion,  dash  of  nutmeg  and  red  pepper,  one  egg. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  smooth  and  creamy,  add  egg  last. 
Mix  in  two  cups  of  finely  minced  meat  of  any  kind.  Spread  on 
dish  and  do  not  form  into  croquettes  until  thoroughly  cold  and 


34 


Noonan's   Market 


DEALEK  IN  ALL  KINDS  OF 


Fresh  and   Corned   Meats,  Sausages, 
Lard,  Hams  and  Bacon 

423  Fourth  St.  Santa  Rosa,  Cal. 

COULSON  CO.'S 
POULTRY     FOODS 

ARE    UNEXCELLED 
SPECIAL  DRY  CHICK 

UNEQUALED   FOR  LITTLE  CHICKS 

GROWING  CHICK 

A   PERFECT  RATION  AFTER   FOURTH  WEEK 

IMPROVED  MASH  EGG  FOOD 

BEST  FEED  MADE  FOR  LAYING  HENS 

COULSON'S  SCRATCHING  FOOD 

THE  OLD  STAND-BY.     ALWAYS  GOOD 

NO.  3  CONDITION  POWDER 

KEEPS   HENS   HEALTHY  AND   PROFITABLE 
PROGRESSIVE    DEALERS    SELL   THEM 

COULSON  POULTRY  AND  STOCK  F000  CO.,  PETALUMA,  CAL 


35 

stiff.  It  is  better  to  mix  them  in  the  morning:  if  they  are  to  be 
cooked  at  night.  Form  into  croquettes,  dip  into  egg  and  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  lard. 

BANBURY  TARTS— Mrs.  C.  B.  Laughlin 

Make  rich  pie  crust,  roll  thin,  and  cut  in  three  inch  squares. 
Put  tablespoon  tart  mixture  in  center,  and  form  into  three- 
cornered  tarts,  pinching  edges  to  keep  in  place.  Brush  top 
with  milk  and  sugar,  and  bake  in  brisk  oven. 

Filling  for  Tarts:  One  cup  chopped  raisins,  one-half  cup 
chopped  blanched  almonds,  piece  of  citron  size  of  an  egg,  same 
of  candied  orange  and  lemon  chopped;  one  egg,  one  cup  sugar. 
Mix  thoroughly. 

HOT  TAMALES-Mrs.  J.  H.  Frese 

Scald  one  quart  white  corn-meal  in  just  enough  water  to 
moisten;  tear  several  corn  husks  into  narrow  ribbons  and  into 
other  husks  put  a  layer  of  meal  forming  a  roll  about  six  inches 
long.  Prepare  mixture  of  one  pint  finely-chopped  chicken, 
one  Spanish  pepper  chopped  fine,  and  one  teaspoon  salt;  put 
two  tablespoons  of  the  mixture  into  the  center  of  the  corn-meal; 
roll  the  meal  over  mixture;  fold  over  the  husks  and  tie  the  ends. 
Put  bones  taken  from  chicken  into  bottom  of  kettle  with  sliced 
onion,  three  or  four  cloves,  two  bay  leaves,  salt  and  pepper;  cover 
with  cold  water  and  let  heat  gradually  to  boiling  point.  Lay  the 
tamales  upon  the  bones  above  water  and  cook  about  two  hours. 

RAVIOLI— Mrs.  Q.  Eckel 

Dressing:  Enough  to  make  one  pint  when  cooked  until  tender 
of  lettuce  or  spinach.  Chop  fine,  add  parsley  and  two  large  onions. 
One  quart  (Holland)  cheese  grated,  one  pint  bread  crumbs,  one 
dozen  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  olive  oil,  small  piece  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  well. 

Batter:  Four  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  table- 
spoons olive  oil;  mix  with  luke-warm  water  to  a  stiff  batter,  and 
roll  into  thin  crusts.  Put  one  teaspoonful  of  dressing  on  each 
crust,  turn  over  the  edges,  then  cut  into  squares.  Put  into 
boiling  salted  water  for  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  and  when  done 
drain  and  fix  with  this  gravy  and  grated  cheese. 

Gravy:  A  small  pot  roast  browned  in  olive  oil.  To  the  gravy 
add  one  good-sized  onion  chopped  fine,  parsley,  one  can  toma- 
toes, salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  one-half  cup  chopped  mush- 
rooms (put  into  hot  water  until  tender,  then  chopped). 

SWEETBREADS,  WITH  SHRIMPS-Mrs.  W.  C.  Fowler 

Boil  sweetbreads  in  salted  water  until  well  done,  then  remove 
from  water.  Let  one  and  one-half  pints  cream,  or  very  rich  milk, 
come  to  a  boil.  Have  the  sweetbreads  cut  into  small  pieces,  and 


36 


No.  17—10  In. 


37 

put  into  the  cream.  Add  one  small  can  shrimps  broken  into 
small  pieces,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Thicken,  and  serve  on 
hot  toasted  bread. 

SWEETBREADS- Mrs.  W.  C.  Fowler 

Soak  sweetbreads  in  salted  water  about  one  hour  to  remove 
blood,  then  remove  skinny  covering.  Slice  thin,  lengthwise, 
roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  corn-meal,  or  flour, 
and  fry  in  a  very  hot  pan,  with  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  lard.     Salt  to  taste. 

OLD-FASHIONED  FRITTERS— Mrs.  Parker  Maddux 

Beat  five  eggs  light,  add  a  cup  of  milk,  a  half  cup  of  water, 
and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Flour  enough  to 
make  quite  a  stiff  batter.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

RAVIOLI— Mrs.  Tovani 

One  pound  of  lean  pork  chopped  fine,  two  cups  of  stale  bread 
soaked  in  water,  parsley  and  spinnach,  one  green  onion  chopped 
fine  until  you  have  one  coffee-cup  full,  one  cup  of  mashed  pota- 
toes. Put  pork  and  greens  in  a  frying-pan  on  back  of  stove, 
pour  over  it  one  quarter-cup  of  olive  oil.  Let  simmer  slowly. 
When  wilted  pour  over  the  bread.  Add  one  scant  cup  of  grated 
Romano  cheese,  a  few  leaves  of  summer  sage  and  mint,  a  little 
garlic  chopped  very  fine,  one  teaspoon  of  celery  salt,  one-half 
teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  nutmeg  (ground),  one  teaspoon  of 
allspice,  salt  to  taste;  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one-fourth  cup 
mushrooms  chopped  fine,  two  teaspoons  black  pepper.  Stir  un- 
til well  mixed.  Take  noodle  paste  ( page  19  )  roll  thin  but  thick 
enough  not  to  break.  Cut  out  as  for  cookies,  put  on  one  side  of 
each  one  a  dessert-spoon  of  this  mixture;  turn  over  the  other 
side,  moisten  the  edges  with  cold  water  and  press  together 
firmly.  Drop  in  boiling  water  salted  to  taste  and  let  boil  fifteen 
minutes.  Have  plenty  of  water  so  they  will  boil  freely  and  not 
stick  together.     When  done  pour  in  colander  and  drain  well. 

Sauce: — Roast  any  kind  of  meat  as  for  ordinary  use.  When 
done  remove  from  pan.  Add  to  the  gravy  one  can  of  tomatoes, 
one-half  a  chicken  chopped  fine  (not  cooked),  one  dozen  olives, 
one-half  cup  of  butter  or  enough  to  make  rich  gravy;  season  to 
taste  with  allspice,  cloves,  salt  and  pepper;  let  cook  until  it 
thickens  and  chicken  is  done.  Take  dish  that  can  go  on  table, 
put  in  a  layer  of  gravy,  then  a  layer  of  Ravioli  from  colander, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese;  repeat  until  dish  is  full,  being  sure 
to  have  gravy  on  top.  Set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 


"Some  hae  meat  and  canra  eat, 
And  some  would  eat  that  want  it. 
But  we  hae  meat,  and  we  can  eat, 
Sae  let  the  Lord  be  thankit." 

—Burns. 


RULES  FOR  COOKING  MEATS 


Put  all  salt  meats  in  cold  water;  all  fresh  meats,  excepting 
for  soups,  into  hot  water,  then  cook  slowly.  All  roast  meats, 
excepting  veal,  are  put  dry  into  a  very  hot  oven;  veal  requiring 
a  little  more  moisture.  When  well  browned,  add  hot  water;  and 
when  about  half  done,  salt.  Never  salt  meat  until  partially 
cooked.  Rare  meat  requires  about  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound. 
Baste  all  roasts  frequently.  Roast  beef  requires  a  hotter  oven 
than  any  other  meat. 

MOLDED  VEAL— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Ten  cent  knuckle  veal  and  boil  until  it  can  be  pierced  with 
fork.  Take  from  liquor  and  cool.  When  cold  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Have  ready  three  hard  boiled  eggs.  Slice  eggs  length- 
wise. Commence  by  putting  slices  of  egg  in  mold,  then  meat 
and  alternate  in  this  wise  until  all  is  used  with  an  occasional  all 
clove  and  pepper  corn.  When  all  is  ready  pour  over  the  liquor 
which  is  boiling  hot  and  has  been  freed  from  grease  or  settlings. 
Set  away  to  cool.  Serve  cold  cut  in  slices.  If  liquor  seems  too 
thin,  add  one  teaspoon  Knox  Gelatine. 

DUMPLINGS— Mrs.  Miller 

To  each  cup  full  of  sifted  flour  add  one  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  add  a  little  salt,  sift  until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  add 
half  as  much  milk  as  flour  (by  measure)  and  beat  a  minute. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  the  stew,  cover  tightly  and  boil  twelve 
minutes. 

STUFFING  FOR  A  TURKEY 

For  a  turkey  weighing  from  eight  to  ten  pounds  allow  one  loaf 
of  stale  baker's  bread,  one  quart  of  oysters,  one  lemon,  two 


42 

roots  of  celery  and  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  It  is  taken 
for  granted  that  the  turkey  is  thoroughly  cleaned  and  wiped  dry 
before  putting  the  stuffing  in.  Crumble  the  bread  till  very  fine; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Drain  the  oysters,  setting  the 
liquor  aside.  Now  take  a  very  sharp  knife  and  peel  off  the 
outer  rind  of  the  lemon,  being  careful  not  to  have  any  of  the 
bitter  and  tough  white  skin  left  on.  Cut  the  peel  in  very  small 
bits,  chop  the  white  part  of  the  celery  very  fine,  adding  the  but- 
ter and  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Mix  the  ingredients  mentioned, 
stirring  until  thoroughly  mixed;  then  proceed  to  stuff  body  and 
crop.  A  turkey  of  the  size  spoken  of  requires  at  least  two  hours 
baking,  and  it  should  be  basted  frequently;  the  liquor  of  the 
oysters  should  be  put  in  the  pan  when  the  pan  is  first  set  in  the 
oven,  and  this  is  to  be  used  in  basting.  The  giblets  and  livers 
should  be  cooked  in  a  basin  on  top  of  the  stove,  then  chopped 
fine,  and  when  the  gravy  is  made,  add  them  to  it. 

VEAL  OR.  BEEF  LOAF— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Three  pounds  chopped  veal  or  beef,  three  well-beaten  eggs, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one-half  cup  butter.  Powdered  cracker 
to  make  the  above  the  consistency  of  dough.  Make  into  a  loaf 
and  bake  until  done,  basting  with  butter.  Use  hot  water  to 
moisten  the  ingredients  if  it  is  too  dry  to  mold  with  hand. 

BOILED  TONGUE— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Soak  tongue  over  night  and  boil  four  hours  in  milk  and  water, 
peel  and  place  on  platter;  garnish  with  parsley. 

DAUBE  a  La  CREOLE -Mrs.  H.  H.  Brooks 

Three  pounds  of  the  round  of  veal  or  beef,  two  large  onions, 
two  tablespoons  of  flour,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  two  large  toma- 
toes, one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  of  thyme  and  parsley,  salt,  pepper, 
and  cayenne  to  taste,  one  tablespoon  of  lard.  Make  incisions 
in  the  meat  and  put  the  garlic  into  them;  then  rub  the  meat 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  the  hot  lard  and  cover  well; 
when  brown  on  both  sides  put  in  a  half  cup  of  water;  when  this 
cooks  up,  put  in  onions  and  flour;  when  brown  put  in  tomatoes 
and  other  ingredients,  and  set  back  on  stove;  let  simmer  slowly 
about  five  minutes,  then  put  in  three  cups  of  water  and  let  cook 
one  hour  slowly. 

High  Grade  Scissors  and  Table  Cutlery  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


43 
CANNELON  OF  BEEF— Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  from  top  of  round,  one  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  fine-chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one 
egg  beaten,  one-third  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Pass  the  meat  through  a  chopper  several 
times;  add  the  other  ingredients,  the  egg,  beaten,  and  the  bread 
crumbs,  wrung  dry  after  standing  some  time  in  cold  water;  mix 
thoroughly  and  shape  in  a  roll.  Bake  on  a  rack  in  a  small  pan 
between  thirty  and  forty  minutes.  Baste  frequently  with  fat 
from  salt  pork  and  hot  water.  Serve,  if  desired,  with  tomato 
sauce. 

GRILLADES  a  La  CREOLE— Mrs.  H.  H.  Brooks 

One  round  steak,  two  tomatoes,  one  large  onion,  one  clove  of 
garlic,  salt  and  pepper  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Select  a  nice  round 
steak  and  beat  well;  cut  into  grillades  (pieces)  about  four  inches 
square.  Put  a  tablespoon  of  lard  in  a  deep  frying-pan  and  cover 
closely.  When  the  steak  browns  put  in  a  half  cup  of  water  and 
set  back  on  the  stove;  when  this  browns  put  in  the  sliced  onions 
and  garlic;  when  a  light  brown,  put  in  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  and 
as  it  browns,  put  in  tomatoes  and  let  brown.  Then  put  in  two  cups 
of  water  and  stir  well.  Set  it  back  on  stove  and  let  it  simmer 
slowly  for  about  half  an  hour.  This  makes  enough  for  six 
persons. 

WHOLESOME  WAY  TO  COOK  HAM— Miss  C.  Denner 

Cut  the  pieces  of  meat  in  full  thick  slices  straight  across  the 
ham,  and  place  them  in  a  frying-pan,  covering  well  with  boiling 
water.  Set  the  pan  directly  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes, 
that  it  may  boil  rapidly,  and  then  transfer  it  to  the  bottom  of 
the  oven,  where  it  must  be  left  to  cook  slowly  for  fully  one  hour. 
Replenish  the  pan  with  hot  water  as  often  as  necessary,  as  the 
ham  must  not  actually  "fry"  until  the  hour  has  passed.  When 
this  time  has  elapsed,  howeyer,  return  the  pan  to  the  top  of  the 
stove  that  the  meat  may  brown. 

A  GOOD  WAY  TO  COOK  MUTTON  OR  LAMB- Mrs.  Chas.  Hoffer 

Take  a  leg  of  lamb  and  put  in  a  kettle  with  some  lard  and 
brown  thoroughly,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  water  and  cook 
gently  for  one-half  hour.  Then  add  one  cup  of  clabber  and  one 
cup  of  sour  cream,  and  about  a  tablespoon  of  salt.  Cook  slowly 
for  two  hours.     Serve  with  mashed  potatoes. 


SAVINGS  BANK  OF  SANTA  ROSA 

FOURTH  ST.  and  EXCHANGE  AVE 

Capital,  fully  paidup $200,000  00 

Surplus $100,000  00 

Undived  Profits $  71,244  24 

OFFICERS 

J.  P.  OVERTON President 

CORNELIUS  SHEA Vice-President 

C.  A.  HOFFER Cashier 

J.  R.  EDWARDS Assistant  Cashier 

H.  G.  HAHMAN Assistant  Cashier 

RALPH  A.  BELDEN Bookkeeper 

A.  G.  WRIGHT Assistant  Bookkeeper 

DIRECTORS 

F.  H.  Denman,  M.  Prince,  Samuel   Talmadge,    C.  Shea,    J.  P.  Overton, 
H.  G.  Hahman,  Harrison  Mecham. 

CORRESPONDENTS 

San  Francisco Anglo-Californian  Bank  (Lim.) 

New  York National  Bank  of  Commerce 

Chicago,  111 Merchants  Loan  and  Trust  Co. 

London Anglo-Californian  Bank    (Lim.) 

A  General  Commercial  Banking  Business  Transacted 

interest-bearing  certificates  of  deposit  issued 

SAVING  ACCOUNTS:— Interest-bearing  passbooks  furnished  deposi- 
tors desirous  of  opening  Savings  accounts  bearing  3%  per  cent  computed 
on  June  30th  and  December  31st  of  each  year  and  added  to  the  principal. 

MUST   HATCH    INCUBATOR   CO 

HAS  MADE  THOUSANDS  OF    POULTRYMEN    SUCCESSFUL 


I 

N 
C 

u 


WE    MANUFACTURE 

ii  i'llMBMiiiiiii  b 


o 

R 

S 


R 
O 


AND  POULTRY  SUPPLIES  OF  ALL  KINDS 


As  well  as  Operate  the  Largest  Hatcheries  in  the  World  having  a  Combined  Capacity 

for  Producing  100,000  Chicks  per  Month.  If  you  are  interested  inthe  poultry  business 

WRITE  FOR  OUR  CATALOGUE  AND  PRICE  LISTS 

Must    Hatch    Incubator    Co.,    Petaluma.    Cal 


45 
BEEFSTEAK  ROLL- Mrs.  Chas.  Roat 

One  slice  of  round  steak.  Spread  with  dressing  made  of  one 
cup  bread  crumbs,  one  small  onion  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon 
of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  sage  (cook  onion  before  putting  in). 
Roll  steak,  tie  securely,  especially  at  ends.  Brown  in  pork  drip- 
ping, then  add  water  and  cook  two  hours.  Add  thickening  and 
seasoning. 

BAKED  CHICKEN  with  SPANISH  DRESSING- Mrs.  Chas.  Hoffer 

Take  a  chicken  (hen),  cleanse  and  singe;  on  the  bottom  of  a 
kettle,  deep  enough  to  hold  the  chicken,  put  a  bowl;  pour  in 
about  a  pint  of  water.  Take  the  fowl  and  stuff  with  the  follow- 
ing: one  quart  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoons  butter,  season 
with  sage,  salt,  chopped  onion  or  Chili  pepper  cut  fine,  hand- 
ful of  stoned  raisins,  same  of  olives.  Tie  the  legs  down  tightly 
and  place  the  chicken  in  the  bowl,  neck  down.  Keep  the  lid  on 
tightly,  and  steam  from  two  and  one-half  to  three  hours,  accord- 
ing to  the  age  of  the  chicken;  then  place  in  the  oven  with  the 
pot  liquor;  add  a  little  water  if  required.  Cover  closely  and  bake 
a  rich  brown.  An  old  hen  thus  treated  is  superior  to  a  young 
one.     Fine  when  cold. 

BEEF  TONGUE  SPANISH— Mrs.  Chas.  Roat 

Boil  tongue  until  tender,  skin  while  hot.  Slice  and  place  in 
saucepan  with  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one  onion,  two  green  pep- 
pers, and  salt.     Boil  one-half  hour,  and  thicken  with  flour. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING— Mrs.  Baldridge 

Thoroughly  beat  two  eggs,  stir  in  two  heaping  tablespoons  of 
flour,  add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Pour  beaten  mixture  into  a  well-greased  pan,  with  small  pieces 
of  fat,  pork.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  at  once. 

LICK  Self-Basting  Enamel  Roasters  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


46 
We  Cater  to  tKe  Ranch  Trade 

"A  Modern  Store  for  the  Country  People" 

SONOMA  COUNTY  FRUIT  &  PRODUCE  CO.,  Inc. 

Good  Clean  Groceries 
E-verytHing  in  Feed  for  CHicKens 
A.11   Kinds  Poultry  Remedies 
Best  Store  to  Buy  Your  E.g£g£s 

Fourth  and  Wilson  Sts.         -         -         Santa  Rosa 

Phone  Main  87 


H.  S.  Johnson,  President  F.  L.  Wright,  Secretary 

Nnrttjuttfifrrtt  iEbrtrir  dnmpang 

Rural     Telephone     Line     Construction    and     Maintenance    a    Specialty 

Contractors  for 

Telephone  Line  Construction,  Installation  of  Exchanges,  Intercommunicating 
Systems,  Annunciator  Systems 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in 
All  Kinds  of  Bell  Telephone   Apparatus    and  Material 

All  Kinds  of  Electric  Wiring.    Electrical  Supplies.    All  Kinds  of  Tools  for 
Inside  and  Outside  Wiremen. 

Office,  538  Third  Street  -  -  Santa  Rosa,  Cal. 

Phone  Main  204 


CANNED  CORN— Mrs.  Jas.  Laughlin 

Use  one  ounce  tartaric  acid  to  eight  quarts  corn.  Cut  corn 
from  cob,  use  sufficient  water  to  cook  corn.  Dissolve  the  acid 
in  a  little  water,  stir  well  into  corn  just  before  putting  into  can 
and  seal.    . 

BAKED  TOMATO  AND  EGG  PLANT -Mrs.  House 

Take  a  deep  earthenware  dish,  pour  into  it  a  cup  of  cream, 
cut  several  slices  of  egg  plant  very  thin,  salt  well,  and  line  the 
dish  with  them;  slice  two  large  tomatoes,  place  a  layer  of  these 
on  the  egg  plant,  next  a  layer  of  spaghetti  (cooked) ;  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese,  pieces  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  cover 
this  with  layer  of  tomatoes,  salt  well  and  sprinkle  with  chopped 
green  pepper  and  a  top  layer  of  egg  plant,  which  also  salt  and 
pepper  well.     Cook  gently  an  hour  and  half  in  a  slow  hot  oven. 

CREAMED  SQUASH— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Bake  Hubbard  Squash  in  the  oven  and  when  done  scrape 
from  shell  and  place  in  a  granite  kettle  on  the  stove;  add  sweet 
cream,  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  beat  to  a  cream  and  serve  hot. 

TO  BAKE  SWEET  POTATOES- Mrs.  Dwinelle 

Boil  until  almost  done,  then  pour  off  water  and  stand  them  in 
a  hot  oven  about  fifteen  minutes.     Remove  skins  and  serve. 

SWEET  POTATOES  AU  CARAMEL— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Boil  sweet  potatoes,  peel  and  cut  in  long  strips,  lay  in  a  bak- 
ing dish  that  can  be  sent  to  table,  dredging  with  two  tablespoons 
flour,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon.  Dot  with  four  tablespoons  but- 
ter cut  in  bits,  sprinkle  with  four  tablespoons  sugar,  and  pcur 
over  all  a  cup  of  hot  water.     Bake  until  brown. 


50 
CORN  PUDDING— Mrs.  Compton 

Dozen  large  ears  of  sweet  corn,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Mix  all  together  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  milk 
and  eggs  are  thick. 

CORN  SOUFFLE-  Mrs.  A.  L.  House 

One  can  corn  (chopped  fine),  one  pint  of  milk  (scant),  two 
eggs,  salt  to  taste,  one-half  teaspoon  yeast  powder,  one  table- 
spoon of  flour  stirred  into  the  milk.  Beat  eggs  very  light,  add 
to  the  other  ingredients.  Put  all  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish 
and  bake  about  forty  minutes.     To  be  eaten  immediately. 

CREAMED  POTATOES— Miss  S.  E.  Polhemus 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  boil  till  well  done.  Place  on  the  stove 
a  little  milk  or  cream  in  which  you  put  a  lump  of  butter;  let  this 
come  to  the  boiling  point.  Mash  the  potatoes  until  there  are  no 
lumps;  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  then  add  the  hot  milk  and  beat 
until  creamy;  add  a  white  of  egg  beaten  stiff,  put  in  a  dish  and 
set  in  oven  until  the  top  is  slightly  b"rowned.  Serve  at  once,  as 
it  will  spoil  them  to  wait  long.  Use  a  dish  for  the  baking  that 
can  be  brought  to  the  table. 

SPINACH  a  La  CREME— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Boil  the  spinach;  drain  off  and  press  out  all  the  water;  chop 
and  heat,  with  two  spoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  one  of  butter 
and  seasoning  to  suit  taste,  dredging  with  a  spoonful  of  flour 
as  you  stir.  Serve  in  small  mounds  on  piece  of  buttered  toast, 
with  a  poached  egg  on  top. 

POTATOES  SCALLOPED  RAW-Miss  S.  E.  Polhemus 

Cut  the  raw  potatoes  in  thin  slices;  butter  a  baking  dish  and 
put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter;  re- 
peat until  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  all  until  it  is  covered,  sweet 
milk  or  cream,  and  then  bake. 

CREAM  BEETS— Mrs.  J.  H.  Frese 

Wash  and  peel  beets,  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  boil,  adding  a 
little  soda.  When  well  done,  pour  off  the  water,  adding  milk 
or  cream,  enough  to  cover  beets.  Let  boil,  add  salt,  pepper, 
and  piece  of  butter.  Thicken  with  corn-starch.   Do  not  use  flour. 


51 
BAKED  GREEN  PEPPERS— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Cut  the  tops  off  the  peppers,  scoop  out  the  seeds,  and  fill  the 
cups  with  chopped  cold  roast,  chopped  ripe  tomatoes,  bread 
crumbs,  and  salt.  Add  a  piece  of  butter  to  each  cup  and  put 
on  the  caps.  Set  them  upright  side  by  side  in  baking-pan  with 
little  water  and  bake  until  tender. 

BAKED  TOMATOES- Miss  E.  Granger 

Select  round  smooth  tomatoes  of  an  even  size.  Cut  off  the 
tops,  and  carefully  scoop  out  the  insides.  Mix  the  pulp  and 
juice  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  season  to  taste,  and  fill  the 
tomato  cups.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  and  put  on 
the  caps.     Bake  until  soft. 

ASPARAGUS,  Spanish  Style— Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

Cook  the  asparagus  tied  in  a  bunch,  the  tips  out  of  the  water, 
or  cut  the  tender  portion  in  small  pieces,  and  put  all  but  the 
tips  over  the  fire  to  cook,  and  when  partly  cooked  add  the  tips. 
Drain  the  asparagus  and  turn  into  a  serving-dish;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  to  the  water,  and  in  it  poach 
three  or  four  eggs;  place  the  eggs  in  the  asparagus  and  pour 
over  the  whole  French  dressing,  to  which  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
fine-chopped  parsley,  capers,  and  cucumber  pickles  have  been 
added. 

CAULIFLOWER  (German) —Mrs.  Chas.  Roat 

Boil  one  head  of  cauliflower  in  salted  water  until  tender. 
Place  in  baking-pan  and  pour  over  it  this  mixture:  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  mixed  with  a  little  cream,  two  heaping  table- 
spoons of  grated  cheese,  a  little  butter,  cayenne  pepper,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.     Bake  five  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

VEGETABLE  HASH -Miss  E.  Granger 

Into  a  kettle  of  beef  boiling  for  soup,  which  has  already  boiled 
about  two  hours,  put  to  boil  potatoes,  carrots,  turnips,  cab- 
bage, onions  and  tomatoes.  When  boiled  tender,  skim  out  the 
vegetables,  chop  and  season.  Brown  in  frying-pan  with  butter. 
Croquettes  may  be  made  from  this  mixture  by  adding  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  and  molding  into  cakes  before  frying. 


52 


KOPF  &  DONOVAN 


Wholesale  and  Retail 


SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 


t)  tMSIClS 


"To  make  a  perfect  salad  there  should  be 
a  spendthrift  for  oil,  a  miser  for  vinegrar,  a 
wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  madcap  to  stir  the 
ingredients  up  and  mix  them  well  together." 

—Spanish  Proverb. 


POTATO  Salad— Mrs.  Harvey 


Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  enough  to  fill  a  quart  dish;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Chop  two  small  onions  very  fine  and  add  to 
potatoes.  Put  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  one  teaspoon  of 
butter  in  a  pan  and  let  it  heat  gradually.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  well,  pour  into  a  cup,  and  fill  the  cup  with  thick  sweet 
cream.  Beat  well  together  and  stir  in  hot  vinegar.  Stir  con- 
stantly till  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  then  pour  it  immediate- 
ly over  the  potatoes  and  mix  thoroughly. 

CHICKEN  Salad— Mrs.  J.  H.  Faught 

Boil  two  young  chickens  until  very  tender,  cut  into  shreds 
(do  not  chop) .  As  much  celery  and  white  tender  part  of  cab- 
bage as  will  measure  as  much  as  the  meat,  chopped  fine. 

Dressing:  Boil  six  eggs,  chop  the  whites,  mash  the  yolks 
with  two  tablespoons  mustard,  one  teaspoon  black  pepper,  one- 
half  teaspoon  cayene.  Scald  one  cup  vinegar,  into  this  stir  one 
cup  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs.  When  thick  take  from  fire  and 
cool.  Then  stir  into  other  ingredients  with  four  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  several  hours  before  serving. 

FRESH  FRUIT  Salad-  Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One-third  box  Cox's  gelatine  and  one  pint  of  hot  water  soaked 
for  an  hour.  When  ready,  pour  over  either  prepared  peaches, 
sliced  bananas,  strawberries,  blackberries,  grapes,  plums,  or- 
anges or  a  combination  of  any  two  of  the  fruits;  sugar  to  taste 
and  flavor  to  judgment.     Set  aside  in  cool  place. 


56 
CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING— Mrs.  Dwinelle 

Yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  small 
one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons vinegar,  two  tablespoons  thick  sweet  cream  to  each  egg. 
Beat  all  thoroughly. 

SALAD  DRESSING-Mrs.  Bryant 

One  teaspoon  mustard,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Mix  well  and  add, 
drop  by  drop,  olive  oil  and  lemon  juice,  alternately.  Season 
with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 

DRESSING  FOR  APPLE  AND  NUT  Salad— Mrs.  Eastwood 

Four  tablespoons  vinegar,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  one  teaspoon  made  mustard,  two  and  one-half  scant 
saltspoons  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon  red  and  white  pepper,  one 
teaspoon  sugar,  equal  amount  whipped  cream.  Let  vinegar 
come  to  a  boil;  stir  in  egg  until  it  thickens;  cool;  stir  in  season- 
ing and  add  cream  just  before  serving.  Use  equal  amounts 
chopped  apples  and  walnuts. 

SALAD  DRESSING— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Place  on  stove  one-half  pint  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  butter; 
heat  slowly  but  not  boil.  When  hot,  stir  into  it  this  mixture: 
two  thoroughly  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoon mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper,  one  tablespoon  flour, 
one  tablespoon  sugar.  Turn  into  hot  vinegar  and  let  thicken, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Thin  with  sweet  cream. 
Keeps  well  if  kept  in  cool  place. 

SALAD  DRESSING-Mrs.  Dwinelle 

Mix  a  tablespoon  of  dry  mustard  and  a  heaping  teaspoon  of 
salt  to  a  stiff  paste  with  a  little  vinegar.  Into  this  beat 
thoroughly  one  egg.  Then  pour  in  best  olive  oil,  about  a  wine- 
glassful  at  a  time,  stirring  it  in  well  each  time  till  quite  smooth 
before  adding  more;  continue  until  a  generous  one-half  pint 
has  been  used,  when  the  mixture  ought  to  be  thick  like  cake 
batter.  Add  cayenne  pepper  to  taste  and  one  wineglassful  of 
vinegar,  stirring  until  smooth.  This  will  keep  in  a  tightly 
covered  jar  in  a  cool  place  for  some  time. 


57 
SWEETBREADS  Salad— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Soak  sweetbreads  one  hour  in  cold  water  and  parboil  twenty 
minutes.  When  cool,  slice  thin,  rub  the  bottom  of  dish  with 
sliced  onions.  Arrange  leaves  of  lettuce  on  it,  put  on  sweet- 
breads and  more  lettuce  and  pour  mayonnaise  over  all. 

CABBAGE  Salad—Mrs.  R.  H.  Thomson 

One  cup  vinegar,  one  cup  water,  one  heaping  tablespoon  but- 
ter, one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  one-half 
teaspoon  mustard,  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Place  water,  vinegar, 
salt,  and  butter  in  an  enameled  saucepan.  When  it  boils,  add 
mustard  and  corn  starch,  which  has  been  moistened  and  rubbed 
smooth  in  one-half  cup  cream.  When  this  has  boiled  two  or 
three  minutes  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Let  re- 
main over  fire  a  moment  longer  and  put  aside  to  cool.  Thin 
part  of  this  with  cream  and  a  teaspoon  sharp  vinegar  and  mix 
with  cabbage  which  has  been  shaved,  not  chopped. 

MOCK  CHICKEN  Salad- Miss  S.  E.  Polhemus 

Take  three  pounds  of  veal  and  boil  till  well  done;  when  cold 
chop  fine;  chop  one  head  of  celery,  mix  veal  and  celery  well  to- 
gether, season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  toss  up  lightly  with 
silver  fork;  pour  any  good  salad  dressing  over  it,  tossing  and 
mixing  until  the  bottom  of  the  mass  is  as  well  saturated  as  the 
top;  turn  into  salad  bowl  and  garnish  with  the  white  of  egg 
(boiled),  cut  into  rings  and  sprigs  of  bleached  celery  tops. 

DUCK  Salad— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Cut  cold  roast  duck  into  dices.  To  six  pints  allow  four  pints 
of  diced  celery  and  two  pints  mayonnaise,  season  duck  with  salt 
and  cayenne.  Heap  in  dome.  Mask  with  thick  mayonnaise  and 
put  stoned  olives  on  and  over  it. 

CHICKEN  Salad— Mrs.  Sutherland 

To  furnish  salad  for  thirty  guests  requ;res  three  large 
chickens.  Boil  thoroughly,  then  remove  the  bones  and  chop  the 
meat  fine,  season  to  taste,  mix  with  this  the  thoroughly  blanched 
part  of  two  bunches  of  celery  cut  fine.  When  ready  to  serve 
pour  over  all  the  following  dressing,  toss  and  mix  well. 

Bath  Room  Fixtures  and  Supplies  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


58 

NEW    YORK    PORK    STORE 

Wm.  Sukalle,  Prop. 

Fresh  Pork,  Spare  Ribs,  Ham,  Bacon,  Lard,  Sausages  of  all  Kinds 
Steer  Beef  8c  to  10c  per  pound 

303  FOURTH  STREET  SANTA  ROSA 

PHONE  RED  3021 

F.   C.   ZILHART 

Address,  Rural  Route  No.  4 

Blacksmithing    and    General    Repairing 

HORSESHOEING  A  SPECIALTY 

Uttttrril  h  §ntg  Btan  *&££* 

We  Fill  Prescriptions  from  all  Doctors 
Let  us  fill  yours    :::::::: 

527     FOURTH    ST.  _  ..  .     ,  ._,_-,-__,     . 

santa  rosa  G.     M .     LUTTRELL 


DRY  GOODS,  CLOTHING  and  LADIES'  SUITS 

Larger  than  Jtny  Other  Two  Stores  in  Sonoma  County 


59 

Dressing:  Beat  two  eggs  well,  then  add  one  teaspoon  sugar, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  prepared  mustard, 
one-third  small  teacup  sweet  cream,  one  teacup  vinegar.  Place 
bowl  containing  mixture  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  stir  until 
thick  as  cream.     Season  with  pepper  according  to  taste. 

SALAD  DRESSING- Mrs.  John  Clay 

Two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  sour  cream.  Cook,  then  add 
tablespoonful  sugar,  teaspoonful  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  and 
vinegar  to  taste.     Serve  cold. 

TOMATO  JELLY  (Salad)  -Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Stew  a  can  of  tomatoes  with  a  small  sliced  onion  and  salt  and 
pepper  until  reduced  one-half.  Strain  through  fine  sieve  press- 
ing the  pulp  through.  To  two  pints  of  juice  add  one  teaspoon 
Knox  gelatine  that  has  been  soaked  in  a  little  water  fifteen 
minutes,  one  tablespoon  Tarragon  vinegar,  season  sharply  with 
cayenne  pepper.  When  firm,  cut  in  two  inch  squares,  place  on 
blanched  lettuce  leaf.  Turn  into  square  dish  to  cool.  When  set, 
should  be  one  inch  thick.  Serve  with  either  French  or  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

CABBAGE  Salad  (for  Large  Gathering)— Mrs.  M.  D.  Brown 

One  quart  vinegar,  four  quarts  cabbage  chopped  fine,  one 
tablespoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  mustard,  one  tablespoon- 
ful pepper,  two  cups  sugar,  eight  eggs.  Put  salt  on  cabbage; 
mix  thoroughly  sugar,  mustard  and  pepper,  and  stir  into  the 
vinegar.  When  boiling  hot,  stir  in  the  beaten  eggs,  and  pour 
over  cabbage.     This  will  keep  indefinitely. 

NUT  Salad— Mrs.  Samuel  J.  Holms 

Serve  pecan  nuts  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  and  over  the  nuts 
pour  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  (For  convenience  buy  the  nuts 
already  shelled). 

CREAM  Salad  DRESSING— Mrs.  Jos.  DuBois 
(ESPECIALLY  FINE  FOR  CHICKEN  OR  SHRIMP  SALAD) 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  cream,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  cup 
weak  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  each  mustard,  sugar,  and  salt, 
red  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Let  vinegar  and  butter  come  to 
a  boil,  then  stir  in  other  ingredients  until  smooth  and  thick, 
being  very  careful  not  to  boil. 


60 
ORANGE  Salad— Miss  Irma  G.  Slusser 

Slice  four  peeled  oranges  lengthwise,  dress  with  three  or  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 
Arrange  slices  in  a  mound  upon  a  layer  of  lettuce  leaves.  Dress 
one  cupful  of  nut  meats  with  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
and  dispose  upon  the  center  of  the  mound.  Toss  together  be- 
fore serving. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING— Mrs.  W.  P.  Slusser 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  tablespoon  mus- 
tard, pinch  of  salt,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  half  pint  salad 
oil,  three  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  one  tablespoon  of  lemon 
juice.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  then  add  the  oil,  drop  by  drop,  al- 
ternately with  a  little  of  the  vinegar  until  about  half  has  been 
used.  Mix  the  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar  well  together 
and  add  gradually,  beating  continually,  add  the  rest  of  the  oil 
and  vinegar  little  by  little  and  last  the  lemon  juice. 

VEGETABLE  Salad- Miss  E.  Granger 

Cut  a  fresh  peeled  cucumber  into  quarters  lengthwise,  and 
slice  very  thin  crosswise;  put  into  a  bowl  with  small  pieces  of 
skinned  tomato  (omitting  the  seed  and  pulp) ,  the  hearts  of  head 
lettuce  torn  into  bits,  and  if  possible  some  tender  stalks  of  celery 
sliced  thin.  A  few  pickled  nasturtium  seeds  or  radish  pods  will 
add  to  the  flavor.  Pour  French  dressing  (which  includes  mus- 
tard) over  the  vegetables,  and  mix  well.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves,  and  if  desired,  garnish  with  slices  of  cold  boiled  egg. 

MAYONNAISE— Mrs.  J.  H.  Frese 

Yolk  of  one  egg  well  beaten,  one  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  a  little 
salt,  a  little  sugar;  mix  this  well  together.  Beat  white  of  one 
egg  stiff,  add  to  the  above.  Then  add  oil,  a  little  at  a  time, 
beating  all  the  time,  a  little  vinegar,  a  little  Worcestershire 
sauce.  With  this  amount  you  can  make  as  much  as  you  wish 
by  adding  as  much  oil  as  you  like.  This  will  keep  good  a  long 
time. 

LOBSTER  AND  MACARONI  Salad -Miss  Lillian  Hoffmeyer 

Cut  two  cups  of  cooked  macaroni  into  small  pieces.  Pick  one 
can  of  lobster  into  pieces,  and  chop  some  celery.  Mix  these  to- 
gether and  pour  the  dressing  over  it.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Dressing:  Stir  together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
flour,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  a  little  vinegar,  a  little  red  pepper, 


61 

pinch  of  mustard  and  salt.  Then  stir  about  a  cup  of  California 
salad  oil  into  this,  slowly  at  first,  until  it  thickens.  When  ready 
for  use  the  dressing  should  be  quite  stiff. 

CELERY  AND  APPLE  Salad- Mrs.  W.  C.  Fowler 

One  and  one-half  cups  chopped  celery,  one  cup  chopped  ap- 
ples, one-half  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  cup  lettuce  chopped. 

Dressing:  One  cup  very  thick  cream,  beaten,  one  teaspoon 
mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  one  tablespoon 
sugar,  one  fourth  cup  vinegar  added  last.  Stir  well  while  add- 
ing vinegar.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Carving  Sets  that  Can't  be  Beat  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


62 


Everybody  Reads 


TTe  PRESS  DEMOCRAT 


DAILY,  by  mail,  50c  per  month,  or  $5  per  year 
SEMI-WEEKLY,  $1.50  per  year    :     :     :    :    : 

The  LARGEST  and  MOST  COMPLETE 
PRINTING  and  BOOKBINDING  PLANT 
IN  SONOMA  COUNTY     :     :     :     :     : 


The  Congressional  Orator 

Now  Stands 
With  Open  Mouth 
And  Pleading  Hands. 

The  people  nowadays  want 
something  more  than  mere 
"hot  air."  It's  actual  results 
we  desire  most.  To  those  de- 
siring to  secure,  at  all  times, 
FRESH  and  JUICY  MEATS,  the  cause  we  wish  to  plead  is 
that  it  pays  to  adopt  any  measure  that  will  result  in  your 
securing  absolute  satisfaction.  This  can  be  accomplished  by 
patronizing  the  FELIZ  MARKET  for  MEATS. 


S.    J.    FELIZ^ 


540    THIRD    ST. 

PHONE    MAIN     14 


Prop. 
santa  rosa 


MINT  Sauce  FOR  LAMB— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  handful  mint  leaves  and  tender  stems.  Stir  well  with 
one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  vinegar.  Set  on  back  of  stove  for  one- 
half  hour,  stirring  occasionally.  When  mixture  is  consistency 
of  syrup  it  is  done. 

MUSTARD  Sauce— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  cup  vinegar,  one  cup  sweet  cream,  two  tablespoons  mus- 
tard, one  tablespoon  salt,  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  eggs, 
mustard,  salt  and  cream  together.  Let  vinegar  come  to  a  boil, 
then  stir  in  mixture  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
while. 

ONION  Sauce — Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour  mixed  with  one 
half  pint  soup  stock;  add  one-half  dozen  small  onions  which 
have  been  boiled  and  mashed.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
For  roast  duck  or  chicken. 

CRANBERRY  Sauce-Mrs.  Wilkinson 

To  two  quarts  of  cranberries  put  one  quart  water.  Let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  then  mash  all  the  berries.  When  this  is  done 
add  one  quart  sugar;  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time;  when  done  sift  through  a  colander;  it  will  all  go  through 
but  the  skin.  Then  pour  into  molds.  It  is  better  to  do  it  the 
day  before  wanted  for  the  table. 

CRANBERRY  Sauce— Mrs.  Delano 

One  quart  cranberries,  one  pint  sugar,  one-half  pint  water. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes.     Do  not  strain. 


66 


WE 

GROW 

THEM 


MORSE  SEEDS 


YOU 

SOW 

THEM 


What  is  more  delicious  than  a  fine  fresh  vege- 
table, well  cooked,  well  seasoned  and  served  up 
in  an  appetizing  manner? 

To  have  good  vegetables  you  must  start  with 
good  seed-  new  and  fresh— seed  that  will  grow. 

Of  course  you  have  the  climate  and  soil,  but 
we  have  the  seed. 

We  tell  you  all  about  it  in  our  catalogue.  If 
you  haven't  one,  send  us  your  name  and  address 
and  we'll  mail  it  free. 

C.    C.    MORSE     &    CO. 

DEPT.  "C" 

48-56    JACKSON    ST.  SAN      FRANCISCO 


If  you  want   the    Highest   Grade  of 

GROCERIES 


USE 


THE 


Haas  Bros.    -    -    Distributers 

San  Francisco 


67 
MINT  CHUTNEY— Mrs.  Wm.  E.  Woolsey 

Take  a  handful  of  finely  chopped  mint  leaves;  add  to  this  a 
cup  of  seeded  raisins,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  of  tomato 
catsup,  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt.  Mash  and  mix  together  until  the 
substance  is  juicy.     A  delicious  accompaniment  to  cold  meats. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE— Mrs.  Wm.  E.  Woolsey 

Cut  up  fine  four  oranges  and  one  lemon  adding  the  juice  of  a 
second  lemon.  Put  in  a  large  dish,  add  one  pint  water,  and 
allow  all  to  stand  twenty-four  or  even  forty-eight  hours.  Hav- 
ing previously  measured  sugar,  bowl  for  bowl,  put  on  stove  the 
cut-up  fruit  and  water,  and  cook  until  very  tender.  Then  add 
sugar  and  boil  until  it  jells.  Pour  into  glasses  and  cover.  This 
makes  from  ten  to  twelve  glasses. 

APPLE  MINT  JELLY— Mrs.  Wm.  E.  Woolsey 

Delicious  to  serve  with  roast  goose  or  pork.  Make  apple  jelly 
in  the  usual  way,  using  partially  unripe  apples,  which  give  a 
beautifully  clear  jelly.  Add  to  each  glassful  of  the  strained 
jelly  liquid  the  same  measure  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
mint  juice.  To  make  this,  mash  a  packed  cupful  of  mint,  with 
two  cups  of  boiling  water,  in  a  bowl.  Cover  closely  and  steep 
for  one  hour.  Lay  a  coarse  muslin  over  a  bowl  and  pour  in  the 
mint,  then  press  out  the  juice  and  mix  with  the  jelly  as  directed. 

CURRANT  CONSERVE— Mrs.  Wm.  E.  Woolsey 

Five  pounds  of  washed  and  stemmed  currants,  five  pounds  of 
sugar  and  five  oranges,  peeled,  seeded  and  cut  into  bits.  Add 
two  and  one-half  pounds  seeded  raisins.  Mix  all  together  and 
boil  for  thirty  minutes.     Seal  while  hot. 

CHUTNEY— Mrs.  T.  L.  Eckel 

Twelve  pounds  ripe  tomatoes,  two  pounds  onions,  two  pounds 
sugar,  two  pounds  apples,  one-half  pound  salt,  two  ounces 
ground  ginger,  two  ounces  garlic,  two  scant  ounces  cloves,  two 
teaspoons  white  pepper,  two  teaspoons  red  pepper,  one  teaspoon 
mace,  four  or  five  Chili  peppers,  six  pints  vinegar.  Chop  all 
finely,  and  boil  six  hours.     Bottle  when  cold. 

HORSE-RADISH  Sauce— Mrs.  J.  H.  Faught 

Two  teaspoons  made  mustard,  two  teaspoons  white  sugar, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt,  and  a  gill  of  vinegar.  Mix  and 
pour  over  grated  horse-radish. 


68 


"SPERRY  FLOUR" 

Gives  the 


RESULTS 

IT  IS  RELIABLE,  AND  UNIFORM  IN  QUALITY 

ASK  FOR  IT 
FLAGLER'S 

COFFEES,     TEAS,     SPICES 

CROCKERY,  GLASSWARE,  AGATEWARE,  KITCHEN  UTENSILS,  ETC. 

COFFEE  ROASTED  DAILY 

420-422  FOURTH  ST.  SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 

PHONE   MAIN  73 


DR.  R.  W.  NELSON 

DENTIST 

PHONE    BLACK    4191  569a   FOURTH    ST 

SANTA     ROSA,   CAL 


rS    and    DESERTS 


"Love  in  a  cottage  and  cottage  pudding  with  it." 


COTTAGE  Pudding— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  in  shallow  pan. 

Sauce:  One  pint  boiling  water,  one  tablespoon  flour  moistened 
and  boiled  in  water,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons 
sugar  creamed  together.  Pour  on  boiling  water,  boil  up  and 
flavor  with  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice  or  tablespoon  sharp  vinegar. 

PLUM  Pudding— Mrs.  Wilkinson 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  cups  finely  chopped  suet,  two  eggs,  one  cup  currants,  three 
cups  chopped  raisins,  four  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  allspice,  one  teaspoon  soda. 
Boil  in  double  boiler  four  hours  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

EGCLESS  PLUM  Pudding- Mrs.  MaKee 

One  heaping  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup 
suet  chopped  fine,  one  cup  raisins  or  prunes  chopped  fine,  one 
cup  molasses,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoon  soda,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  teaspoon  each  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Boil  two  and 
one-half  hours  in  a  two  quart  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 

Sauce  :  One-half  cup  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  cornstarch 
mixed  well.  Then  add  one  cup  boiling  water  and  one  teaspoon 
lemon,  boil  ten  minutes. 

COFFEE  JELLY— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  package  Knox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  pint  cold  water. 
Stand  one  hour.     Put  two  cups  strong  coffee  and  one  pint  of 


72 

sugar  in  a  quart  cup,  add  gelatine  soaked  and  fill  measure  with 
boiling  water.  Stir  well  and  strain.  Pour  in  mold.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  and  sugar. 

PLUM  Pudding— Mrs.  Purrington 

One  pound  flour,  one  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  one  pound  suet 
chopped  fine,  one  pound  citron,  one  pound  sugar,  two  pounds 
currants,  two  pounds  raisins  (seeded),  five  eggs,  three  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  mixed  with  flour,  one  cup  brandy,  one 
tablespoon  cloves,  one  tablespoon  allspice,  two  tablespoons  cin- 
namon, two  grated  nutmegs,  add  a  little  water  in  mixture,  boil 
six  hours.  Either  cook  in  small  cake  pans  in  a  steamer  or 
sprinkle  pudding  cloth  with  flour,  put  the  pudding  in  and  tie  up 
as  tight  as  possible.  Put  a  plate  in  bottom  of  your  pot  to  keep 
the  pudding  from  burning.     These  will  keep  some  time. 

FRUIT  Pudding— Mrs.  Bryant 

One-half  dozen  bananas,  one-half  dozen  oranges,  two  lemons, 
one  can  pineapple,  one  box  gelatine,  soaked  in  three-quarters 
cup  cold  water  until  dissolved,  then  add  three-quarters  cup  boil- 
ing water.     Sweeten  to  taste  and  set  away  to  harden. 

COTTAGE  Pudding— Mrs.  Voss 

One  heaping  pint  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two 
teaspoons  cream  tartar,  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve  warm  with  wine  or  brandy 
sauce  or  sweet  sugar  sauce. 

DRIED  PEACH  Pudding— Mrs.  Dwinelle 

Put  some  slices  of  bread  in  the  oven  and  dry  until  they  are 
very  crisp,  making  about  a  bowl  of  crumbs.  Add  to  these 
crumbs  an  equal  quantity  of  stewed  peaches,  two  or  three  eggs, 
one  pint  of  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  bake  about  twenty 
minutes,  browning  a  little.  It  should  not  be  milky.  Eat  either 
hot  or  cold  with  a  sauce  made  of  sugar  and  lemon  juice. 

TOLEDO  Steam  Cookers  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


73 
STEAMED  Pudding— Mrs.  Meacham 

One  cupful  of  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cupful  molasses,  one 
cupful  currants  washed  and  dried,  one  cupful  sour  milk,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt  and  flour.  Mix  well,  using  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Pour  into  a  mold  and  steam 
three  hours. 

BANANA  CREAM -Mrs.  Bryant 

Five  ripe  bananas,  remove  skin  and  pound  the  fruit  with  five 
ounces  white  sugar.  Whip  one-half  pint  cream  to  stiff  froth 
and  add  mashed  fruit  and  one-half  glass  sherry  wine  and  juice 
of  one  lemon.  Mix  well  together  and  add  one-half  ounce  of 
dissolved  gelatine.  Set  in  a  mold  to  cool  and  harden.  Serve 
with  cream. 

SUET  Pudding— Mrs.  J.  H.  Faught 

One-half  cup  suet  (chopped),  one  cup  raisins,  two-thirds  cup 
molasses,  one  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one 
heaping  teaspoon  soda.     Steam  two  hours. 

Sauce:  One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  cream, 
one-half  nutmeg,  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Cream,  butter  and 
sugar  well  together,  then  add  other  ingredients. 

SNOW  Pudding— Mrs.  Dwinelle 

Soak  one-half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  one-half  pint  of  cold 
water,  set  it  on  back  of  stove  until  dissolved.  Add  one-half 
pint  of  boiling  water  and  just  before  it  hardens  beat  well  with 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  and  a  little  lemon 
juice.  Put  this  in  a  mold.  When  served  pour  over  it  a  custard 
made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  two-thirds  cup 
of  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla. 

FAVORITE  Pudding— Mrs.  Sutherland 

Beat  two  eggs  light,  add  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  bread  crumbs, 
one  cup  finely  chopped  sour  apples,  one  cup  currants,  one  cup 
sugar.     Bake  brown  and  serve  with  sauce. 

STRAWBERRY  SPONGE— Mrs.  Bryant 

One  quart  strawberries,  one-half  package  of  gelatine,  one  and 
one-half  cups  water,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  whites 
of  four  eggs.  Soak  gelatine  two  hours  in  one-half  cup  of  the  water. 


74 

Mash  strawberries  and  add  half  the  sugar  to  them.  Boil  remain- 
der of  sugar  and  the  cupful  of  water  gently  for  twenty  minutes. 
Rub  strawberries  through  a  sieve.  Add  gelatine  to  the  boiling 
syrup  and  take  from  fire  immediately,  then  add  strawberries. 
Place  in  pan  of  cold  water  and  beat  five  minutes.  Add  the  well 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  until  thickens  a  little.  Pour  in 
mold  and  set  away  to  thicken.     Serve  with  cream. 

RICE  Pudding— Mrs.  Dwinelle 

One  cup  rice  (uncooked) ,  one  cup  of  sugar,  nine  cups  milk, 
butter  size  of  walnut,  salt  and  nutmeg,  raisins  if  desired.  Bake 
one  and  three-quarters  or  two  hours.  To  be  eaten  cold.  The 
oven  should  not  be  too  hot.  Cook  slowly,  and  stirring  it  several 
times  in  the  first  hour  is  well.     Everything  is  in  the  baking. 

SPONGE  Pudding— Mrs.  House 

One  teacup  flour,  one-half  teacup  sugar,  one  pint  sweet  milk. 
Boil  all  together  till  thick,  then  add  three-quarters  cup  of  but- 
ter. Beat  to  a  froth,  and  separately,  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
eight  eggs.  Stir  well  together  and  bake  in  a  pudding  dish  set 
in  a  pan  of  water  nearly  an  hour. 

Sauce:  Rub  to  a  cream  one  cup  powdered  sugar  and  one-half 
cup  butter.  Add  by  teaspoonful,  one-half  cup  sherry,  and  set 
in  a  dish  of  hot  water  to  dissolve. 

STRAWBERRY  Pudding-Mrs.  Bryant 

Make  a  custard  of  one  quart  milk,  one  cup  sugar  and  yolks  of 
four  eggs;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Slice  one  stale  plain  cake  and 
cover  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  it.  Moisten  with  custard;  over 
this  put  a  layer  of  preserved  strawberries,  then  another  layer 
of  cake,  then  custard,  then  strawberries.  Repeat  until  your 
dish  is  full.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
color  with  some  of  the  strawberry  juice.  Spread  on  top  and 
serve  with  cream. 

POOR  MAN'S  Pudding— Mrs.  Dwinelle 

Four  cups  flour,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup 
New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  raisins,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Citron  and  currants  if  you 
wish,  and  salt.  Boil  three  hours  in  tin  with  stem  through  center 
and  tie  cover  on  tight.    To  be  eaten  with  hot  sauce. 


75 
STEAMED  APPLE  ROLL- Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Mix  up  soft,  rich  biscuit  dough  (chopped  suet  preferred  for 
shortening)  and  roll  to  about  one  inch  thick;  spread  on  this  two 
cups  hashed  apples.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  spices.  Spread 
over  this  plum  or  cherry  preserves.  Jelly  and  raisins  take  place 
of  preserves.  Roll  up  and  put  in  buttered  mold  and  steam  three 
hours. 

Sauce:  Butter,  sugar,  little  flour  heated  together;  pour  en 
boiling  water;  add  a  little  vinegar  and  nutmeg. 

PRUNE  Pudding- Mrs.  Eldredge 

Soak  forty  prunes  in  cold  water  over  night.  When  well  swol- 
len, pour  off  the  water  and  cover  with  boiling  water;  let  boil 
for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  When  soft,  pour  off  water  and 
rub  prunes  through  sieve.  Put  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  in 
this  and  then  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs.  Mix  well 
and  bake  about  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with 
cream. 

TROY  Pudding — Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  cup  raisins,  one  cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  molasses,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  cinnamon,  nutmeg.  Boil  in  pudding  dish  three  hours. 
Serve  with  either  brandy  or  hard  sauce. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM-Mrs.  Eldredge 

Two  tablespoons  tapioca  soaked  in  one  cup  of  water  about  an 
hour.  One  pint  milk  in  double  boiler,  when  hot  pour  in  the 
tapioca  and  let  cook  for  one  hour.  Pinch  of  salt,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  into  which  beat  one  cup  sugar.  Then  mix  well  with  a 
little  cold  milk  and  pour  into  the  hot  milk,  stirring  a  few  min- 
utes. Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  stir  into  the  mixture 
after  removing  it  from  the  fire.  Add  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and 
set  away  to  cool. 

INDIAN  AND  APPLE  Pudding— Mrs.  Wilkinson 

One-half  cupful  Indian  meal,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one 
quart  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
butter,  one  pint  pared  and  quartered  apples,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon ginger,  one-quarter  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg.     Put  the 


76 

milk  on  in  double  boiler,  when  it  boils  pour  gradually  on  the 
meal;  return  to  boiler  and  cook  half  an  hour,  stirring  often. 
Add  molasses,  butter,  seasoning  and  apples;  butter  pudding 
dish,  pour  in  mixture  and  bake  slowly  three  hours. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS— Mrs.  Voss 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough.  Roll  out  a  piece  of  dough  as  thin 
as  pie  crust  and  cut  in  squares  large  enough  to  cover  an  apple. 
Put  into  the  middle  of  each  piece,  two  apple  halves  pared  and 
cored.  Put  a  pinch  of  cinnamon  and  a  spoonful  of  sugar  on  the 
apples  and  lap  the  dough  around  them;  lay  the  dumplings  in  a 
well  buttered  dripping  pan.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each,  and 
sprinkle  over  a  large  handful  of  sugar  and  turn  in  a  cupful  of 
boiling  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.     Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
layers;  serve  with  sauce  hot. 

Sauce:  One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one 
pint  strawberries  mashed  until  juicy.  Beat  butter  and  sugar 
to  cream,  then  stir  in  the  berries  and  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE— Mrs.  McKisick 

One  pint  whipped  cream,  one-half  pint  milk,  one-half  gill  of 
wine,  two-thirds  cup  gelatine,  four  eggs.  Boil  milk  and  gela- 
tine until  latter  is  dissolved.  Beat  yolks  with  four  tablespoons 
sugar,  mix  into  the  gelatine,  add  whites  well  whipped  and  last 
the  cream.  Line  a  deep  glass  dish  with  sponge  cake  and  fill 
with  above  mixture. 

PUDDING  SAUCE— Mrs.  Parloa 

One  cupful  butter,  two  cups  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  two 
eggs,  five  tablespoons  wine  or  three  of  brandy,  one-fourth  tea- 
cup boiling  water.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  and  gradually 
beat  the  sugar  into  it.  Add  whites  of  eggs,  unbeaten,  one  at  a 
time  and  then  the  brandy  or  wine.  When  all  is  a  light  smooth 
mass  add  the  water,  beating  in  a  little  at  a  time.  Place  the 
bowl  in  a  basin  of  hot  water  and  stir  until  smooth  and  frothy, 
about  two  minutes. 


77 

HARD  SAUCE— Mrs.  Bryant 

! 

One-third  cup  butter,  add  gradually  one  cup  powdered  sugar, 
and  two  tablespoons  cream  or  milk,  drop  by  drop.  Add  one- 
third  teaspoon  vanilla. 

SWEDISH  CARROT  Pudding— Mrs.  J.  H.  Frese 

One  cup  grated  raw  carrots,  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  one  cup 
grated  raw  potatoes,  one-half  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  currants, 
one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  cup  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
cup  suet,  spice  same  as  for  plum  pudding.  Boil  three  or  four 
hours  in  covered  can,  or  bake  in  oven  in  covered  pan  with  an 
asbestos  mat  under  it. 

Sauce:  Piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  two  tablespoons 
flour,  blend,  and  add  cold  water  gradually.  Let  boil,  then  beat 
one  egg  light  in  bowl,  and  pour  hot  sauce  on  it.    Flavor  to  suit. 

ORANGE  CUSTARD-Mrs.  Samuel  J.  Holms 

Place  one  pint  milk  on  stove;  when  at  boiling  point  add  one 
tablespoonful  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Beat 
yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one-half  teacup  sugar.  Stir  into  the 
milk  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  When  cold  add  the  beaten  whites 
of  three  eggs,  stirring  slightly  into  the  custard.  Peel  six  oran- 
ges, cut  in  thin  slices,  mix  with  one  teacupful  sugar,  place  in 
sauce  dishes  and  dip  the  custard  over  it. 

RUSSIAN  CREAM— Mrs.  Munson  Deuprey 

Three  tablespoons  gelatine,  level  full,  dissolved  in  one-fcuith 
cup  cold  water.  Add  about  one-third  cup  warm  water  just  be- 
fore adding  to  milk.  Scald  one  pint  milk,  add  gelatine  and  two 
egg-yolks  beaten  well  with  three-fourths  or  one  cup  sugar. 
Just  bring  to  a  boil,  strain.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  stir  in  mix- 
ture slowly.  Flavor  with  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla,  or  less.  Pour 
into  small  moulds  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

SUET  Pudding— Mrs.  John  Clay 

One  cup  each  molasses,  suet,  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half 
cups  each  currants,  raisins,  and  cracker  crumbs,  one-half  tea- 
spoon soda,  little  salt,  three  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour. 
Add  citron  and  spice  to  taste.  Steam  three  hours.  This  will 
keep  and  can  be  re-steamed. 


78 
MARSHMALLOW  Pudding- Mrs.  J.  W.  Mitchell 

One  tablespoon  gelatine  and  a  little  pink  coloring  dissolved 
in  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water.  Add  one  cup  boiling  water,  one 
cup  sugar,  and  a  little  vanilla.  Put  on  stove  until  all  dissolves, 
strain  and  cool.  When  thick,  not  solid,  drop  in  the  unbeaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  and  beat  for  twenty  minutes.  Fold  in  one 
cup  of  any  kind  of  berries.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

WATERMELON  PRESERVES -Mrs.  Jas.  W.  Hall 

Prepare  the  rind  by  cutting  away  all  the  green  and  red,  leav- 
ing the  pieces  rather  thin,  cut  in  any  desired  shape  or  size. 
Wash  and  place  in  milk  pan  and  cover  with  water,  with  one 
tablespoon  salt,  and  alum  the  size  of  a  walnut  added.  Let  stand 
over  night,  then  drain,  rinse  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them. 
Let  stand  about  an  hour,  then  place  on  stove,  and  boil  until 
tender.  It  may  be  necessary  to  change  the  water  two  or  three 
times  to  remove  salt  and  alum  taste.  When  tender  drop  in  a 
good  rich  syrup  and  cook  slowly  until  transparent.  Then  place 
in  either  glass  or  tin  and  seal. 

PINEAPPLE  MARMALADE-Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Chop  pineapple  very  fine  and  weigh,  allowing  three-fourths 
pound  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Sprinkle  the  sugar  over 
the  fruit  and  let  stand  over  night.  Pare  and  stone  apricots  and 
weigh.  Take  an  equal  number  of  pounds  to  the  pounds  of  pine- 
apple. Allow  three-fourths  pound  sugar  to  every  pound  of  ap- 
ricots. Sprinkle  the  sugar  over  the  apricots  and  let  stand  over 
night  also.  In  the  morning  put  both  fruits  together  and  boil 
half  an  hour,  stirring  continuously.     Seal  while  hot. 

FIG  MARMALADE— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

To  two  pounds  figs  allow  one  pound  sugar,  one  orange,  one 
lemon.  Peel  figs  and  cut  very  fine.  Boil  by  themselves  half 
an  hour.  Then  add  the  grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  the  orange 
and  lemon  and  the  sugar.  Boil  all  together  half  an  hour  longer, 
stirring  continuously.  Seal  in  pint  jars.  To  be  served  with 
cream.  (Proportion  of  fruits  after  peeling:  ten  pounds  figs, 
five  pounds  sugar,  five  oranges,  five  lemons.  This  makes  ten 
pints  of  marmalade. ) 


79 
STEAMED  BLACKBERRY  Pudding-Mrs.  D.  C.  Cameron 

Line  the  sides  of  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish  with  a  rich  soft 
biscuit  dough.  Then  fill  the  dish  with  first  a  layer  of  canned 
fruit,  then  dough  cut  in  strips,  then  fruit  and  dough  alternately 
until  the  dish  is  full,  having  the  dough  on  top.  Steam  about 
three  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

MOCK  PLUM  Pudding-  Miss  Edith  Clements 

Three  or  four  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  milk,  one  cup  raisins 
chopped  but  not  fine,  one  cup  currants,  one  cup  citron,  one  cup 
chopped  suet,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
one  teaspoon  ginger,  two  eggs.  Drain  the  bread  fairly  dry,  add 
fruit,  suet,  spices,  and  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Mix  well  together 
and  bake  in  a  well  greased  pudding  pan  about  an  hour  and  a 
half  in  a  slow  oven.  Before  placing  in  the  oven  dust  the  top 
with  cinnamon.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

STEAMED  GRAHAM  Pudding-Mrs.  G.  O.  Guy 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  graham  flour. 
Add  one  egg,  five  teaspoons  melted  butter,  one-half  cup  mo- 
lasses into  which  one  teaspoon  soda  has  been  stirred,  one  cup 
raisins.     Steam  three  hours. 

Sauce:  Two  tablespoons  butter,  five  tablespoons  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  flour,  beaten  to  a  cream.  Add  one  beaten  egg,  then 
boiling  water  to  thin  to  proper  consistency.  Boil  and  flavor  to 
taste. 

BANANA  SNOWBALL-Miss  Irma  G.  Slusser 

Place  in  a  double  boiler  one  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch;  stir 
over  the  fire  until  thick;  then  add  vanilla  flavoring  to  taste. 
When  custard  is  cold  beat  the  two  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Cut  three  or  four  ba- 
nanas into  slices  and  place  in  a  dish;  pour  the  custard  over  it, 
and  put  whites  of  eggs  on  top  in  shape  of  snowballs. 

RAISIN  Pudding— Miss  Emily  Denner 

One  cup  finely  chopped  suet,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  eggs, 
one-half  cup  milk,  one  cup  entire-wheat  flour,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one  cup  floured  raisins.  Steam  three  hours. 
Serve  with  liquid  sauce  or  cream. 


80 
FRIAR'S  OMELETTE-Mrs.  E.  S.  Denner 

Boil  about  one  dozen  apples  as  for  sauce;  stir  in  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  four  ounces  of  sugar.  When  cold  add  four 
eggs  beaten  very  light.  Thickly  strew  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 
on  buttered  baking-dish,  put  in  the  apple  mixture  and  strew 
crumbs  plentifully  over  the  top.     Bake  in  rather  slow  oven. 

BAKED  BANANAS— Mrs.  Chas.  Roat 

Cook  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  of  sugar,  and  juice  of  one 
lemon  in  double  boiler  until  clear.  Peel  and  slice  lengthwise 
one  dozen  bananas,  put  on  buttered  baking-dish,  pour  one-half 
of  sauce  over  them  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Then  add  re- 
mainder of  sauce  and  bake  until  brown,  basting  occasionally. 

VANILLA  SOUFFLE— Mrs.  J.  M.  Laughlin 

Heat  one-half  pint  milk  in  double  boiler.  Moisten  three  table- 
spoons flour  with  a  little  cream,  add  to  the  hot  milk  and  cook 
until  it  thickens.  Separate  four  eggs  and  add  the  well  beaten 
yolks  to  the  hot  mixture,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  beat  in 
thoroughly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Place  in  a  buttered  pan 
or  bowl,  and  stand  in  a  pan  of  boiling  warer  in  the  oven  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  wine  sauce. 

Wine  Sauce  :  One-half  cup  powdered  sugar  and  one  table- 
spoon butter  rubbed  to  a  cream;  add  one  egg  beaten  lightly. 
Flavor  with  Sherry  wine. 

SPONGE  Pudding- Mrs.  E.  F.  Cole 

Six  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one  cup  sifted  flour,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter.  Wet  flour  with  a  little  milk  and 
stir  into  rest  of  milk  when  boiling.  Let  cool.  Stir  sugar  and 
butter  to  a  cream,  add  well  beaten  yolks,  add  to  paste  and  last 
add  whites  of  eggs.  Pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  set  to  bake 
in  oven  in  dish  of  boiling  water.  Bake  about  one  hour.  Serve 
hot  or  cold  with  sauce. 

Sauce:  Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter.  Cream  and  add  a 
little  flour,  one-half  nutmeg,  one  pint  boiling  water,  and  bring 
to  a  boil. 

PRUNE  Pudding— Miss  Mae  Kelly 

Soak  one  cup  dried  prunes  two  hours,  then  cut  in  small  pieces, 
removing  the  pits.     Two  eggs  well  beaten,  two-thirds  cup  mo- 


81 

lasses,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  dash  of 
cloves,  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  graham  flour 
(sift  the  flour),  one  teaspoon  soda  in  little  hot  water,  stir 
thoroughly  and  add  cut  prunes.  Put  in  covered  pail  well  greased 
and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Boil  two  hours  keeping 
water  in  all  the  time.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce.  One-half 
cup  raisins  and  currants  added  will  make  a  richer  pudding. 

DUTCH  APPLE   Pudding— Mrs.  J.  H.  Faught 

Two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  salt,  mix 
well.  Rub  into  this  two  tablespoons  butter.  Beat  one  egg,  add 
to  it  one  cup  milk  and  stir  into  the  flour  and  beat  well.  Grease 
a  shallow  pan  and  spread  the  dough  one-half  inch  thick.  Pare 
apples  and  quarter  them,  stick  close  together  in  parallel  rows, 
sprinkle  plentifully  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Bake 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  with  cream.  Rhubarb 
or  any  fruit  can  be  used  instead  of  apples. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM— Mrs.  M.  E.  Slusser 

One  can  shredded  pineapple;  bring  to  a  boil  with  a  half  pound 
of  white  sugar;  strain  over  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  which  has 
been  dissolved  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it.  When  cool  stir 
in  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  a  half  pint  of  whipped 
cream.     Pour  into  a  mold  and  set  on  ice. 

INDIAN  Pudding- Mrs.  J.  H.  Faught 

Scald  one  quart  milk  and  gradually  stir  in  one  pint  of  Indian 
meal.  Cook  it  slowly  and  thoroughly,  then  add  to  it  cne  cup 
molasses  and  a  little  salt,  and  one  cup  finely  chopped  beef  suet. 
When  it  is  partly  cold  stir  in  a  quart  of  cold  milk.  Butter  a  deep 
dish  and  bake  slowly  two  or  three  hours. 

COFFEE  Pudding-Mrs.  J.  H.  Faught 

Strong  coffee  sufficient  to  moisten  one  quart  bread  crumbs, 
one  cup  brown  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup 
raisins,  one  cup  currants,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  all- 
spice, and  cinnamon.  Steam  one  hour  and  serve  with  wine 
sauce. 

MARSHMALLOW  Pudding-Miss  Nelle  Mead 

Dissolve  one  tablespoon  of  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water  in  a 
cup,  and  then  fill  the  cup  up  with  boiling  water,  stirring  well. 
Break  the  whites  of  three  eggs  on  a  large  platter.     Pour  over 


82 

OFFICE   PHONE  MAIN   29  hours  10  to  12,  2  to  4,  7  to  s 

RESIDENCE  PHONE  MAIN  128  Sundays  10  to  12 


DR.  J.  W.  CLINE 


OFFICE:  CARITHERSBULIDING  RESIDENCE   447  BST 

COR.   4th    S   B  STS.  SANTA    ROSA,  CAL 


J.  H.  McLEOD,  M.  D. 

PHYSICIAN   AND    SURGEON 

SPECIAL  ATTENTION   TO    DECEASES   OF  THE 
EYE,  EAR,  NOSE   AND   THROAT 

SANTA    ROSA,  CALIFORNIA 

C.  H.  THOMPSON,   M.  D. 

HOMEOPATHIC 
PHYSICIAN    AND    SURGEON 

Office  Hours:  8  to  9  a.  m. 
Telephone  Black  4461  I  to  3  p.  m. 

6  to  7  p.  m. 

445   MENDOCINO  AVENUE 


SANTA    ROSA,    CAL 


DR.  S.  M.  ROHR 

RESIDENCE  431   BEAVER  STREET 
Telephone  Main  132 

SANTA    ROSA,    CAL 


83 

one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  flavoring,  and  over  all  pour  the  hot 
water  and  gelatine.  Beat  until  stiff.  Take  out  a  cupful  and 
tint  with  pink  coloring.  Alternate  the  white  and  pink  mixture 
in  a  pudding  dish  that  can  be  brought  to  the  table.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

TAPIOCA  ROLL- Mrs.  F.  W.  Laugh. in 

Two  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  flour, 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  boiling  water,  one  teaspcon  bak- 
ing powder.  Bake  in  oblong  pan  spreading  dough  very  thin. 
Soak  one-half  teacup  pearl  tapioca  two  hours  in  cold  water, 
then  boil  in  double  boiler  till  it  is  clear.  While  boiling  add  one- 
half  cup  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  butter.  Spread  hot  on  cake 
and  while  cake  is  hot,  and  roll.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

COCOANUT  PIE— Mrs.  F.  W.  Laughlin 

One  scant  pint  of  milk,  one-half  teacup  sugar,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  one  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch,  one  teaspoon  butter. 
In  a  bowl  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar,  add  the  cornstarch  moistened 
in  a  little  water.  Beat  all  together  thoroughly.  Add  to  the 
scalding  milk.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time. 
When  done  add  one  cup  fresh  cocoanut.  Place  in  a  crust  which 
has  been  already  baked.  Whip  the  whites  of  eggs  to  stiff  froth, 
add  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  spread  over  pie.  Eeturn  to  oven 
and  brown. 

BRJDGE   BEACH  Stoves  Always  the  Best  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


"No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes. 
As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies." 

—Holmes. 

PUMPKIN  Pie— Mrs.  Estinghausen 

One  cup  pumpkin,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  eggs, 
one  rolled  cracker,  cinnamon  and  ginger  to  taste.  This  makes 
one  large  pie. 

LEMON  PIE  FILLING— Mrs.  McKisick 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  yolks  three  eggs,  two  lemons, 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  cornstarch,  with  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  boiling  water  poured  on  it,  a  little  salt.  Cook  above  mixture 
until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  pour  it  in  the  pie  and  cook  again 
in  the  oven  until  brown,  then  add  the  whites  with  four  table- 
spoons of  sugar  whipped  in  them.  This  will  make  one  thick  pie. 

MOCK  MINCE  Pie- Mrs.  Wood 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  of  clabber  milk,  one  egg. 
Spices  and  one  teaspoon  flour,  tablespoon  vinegar  and  little  salt. 

MINCE  MEAT— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One-half  pound  suet  chopped  fine,  two  pounds  beef  and  two 
pounds  apples  chopped,  one  cup  sugar,  two  pounds  raisins  seed- 
ed, one-half  pound  currants,  two  cups  boiled  cider,  two  cups  juice 
of  sweet  spiced  fruit,  one  piece  candied  lemon  peel,  one  piece 
citron  (cut  fine) ,  one  teaspoon  salt,  little  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon 
nutmeg  and  allspice,  a  few  raisins  left  whole,  one  cup  vinegar. 

GREEN  TOMATO  Pie— Mrs.  Wood 

One  pint  minced  tomatoes,  one  pint  minced  tart  apples,  two 
cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  strong  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  flour, 
one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and 
black  pepper.  (I  sometimes  add  one  teacup  raisins,  which  is 
an  improvement). 

APPLE  MERINGUE  Pie- Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Stew  seven  apples  until  soft,  while  hot  add  one  tablespoon 
butter,  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  mash  well.  Beat  four  eggs, 
leaving  out  the  whites  of  two,  and  stir  into  hot  apple.  Flavor 
with  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice.  Bake  with  under  crust  as  in  cus- 
tard pie.  When  done  spread  meringue  made  with  whites  of  two 
eggs  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  over  top  and  return  to  oven 
to  brown. 


86 

• 

CAPITAL    STOCK   $300,000                       SURPLUS    $120,000 

SANTA  ROSA  BANK 

INCORPORATED     1870 

FIRE  AND 

CALL  IN 

BURGLARPROOF 

Htt :  !!S  wtSk  HBmBh 

AND  GET  ONE  OF 

SAFE  DEPOSIT 
BOXES 

iIMb 

OUR  HOME 
SAVINGS 

W  W*  ;w     $% 

TO  RENT 

BANKS 

Wkma&fi&SEgi 

COMMERCIAL    AND      SAVINGS 

INTEREST    PAID    ON    DEPOSITS 

87 
PUFF  PASTE  FOR  TARTS- Mrs.  E.  S.  Dermer 

Have  ingredients  very  cold;  flour,  water,  lard,  butter,  and 
beaten  white  of  egg.  Begin  by  making  paste  of  flour,  lard,  and 
water;  then  roll  to  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  spread  with  the 
white  of  egg  and  the  butter  in  bits,  roll  up  and  repeat  three 
times. 

LEMON  Pie— Mrs.  J.  W.  Mitchell 

After  removing  the  crusts  from  two  slices  of  bread,  each  one- 
half  inch  thick,  pour  over  them  one  cup  boiling  water;  add  one 
dessertspoon  of  butter,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Then  add  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  rich  crust. 
When  cool  spread  over  it  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
mixed  with  four  tablespoons  of  sugar.     Brown  in  oven. 

CHEESE  CAKES— Mrs.  E.  S.  Denner 

To  a  pint  of  curd,  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk,  three 
beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  sugar,  grated  peel  of 
lemon,  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Make  puff  paste  and 
bake  in  pie  pans  without  upper  crust. 

ORANGE  CUSTARD  Pie- Mrs.  W.  P.  Slusser 

One  cup  milk,  one  cup  orange  juice,  one  cup  sugar,  one  large 
tablespoof  ul  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  two  eggs.  Stir  orange 
juice  and  sugar  together.  Bring  milk  to  a  boil,  add  salt  to  milk; 
mix  flour  with  milk  to  smooth  paste,  stir  into  boiling  milk  and 
let  cook  one  minute.  Remove  from  fire,  add  orange  juice  and 
sugar  gradually,  stirring  until  well  mixed,  then  add  yolks  of 
two  eggs  well  beaten.  Line  a  deep  pie  pan  with  rich  paste, 
pour  in  mixture  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  till  custard  is  set. 
Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  little  vanilla  extract,  spread 
over  top  and  return  to  oven  until  a  delicate  brown.    Serve  cold. 

CRACKER  Pie— Mrs.  T.  L.  Eckel 

Six  crackers,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  hot  water, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one:half  pound  chopped  rais- 
ins, one-half  cup  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg, 
one  teaspoon  cloves,  and  a  little  salt. 


ffVozesa  IDsdimtiies  &&&<di  IBe^eir^Mes 


"An't  please  your  Honour"  quoth  the  peasant, 
"This  same  dessert  is  very  pleasant." 

—Pope. 


ICE  CREAM— Mrs.  Sutherland 

To  make  one  gallon,  take  one  quart  rich  cream,  one  and  one- 
half  quarts  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  vanilla  or  other  flavoring  as  preferred.  Freeze,  then 
pack  for  one  hour  or  more. 

ICE  CREAM— Mrs.  Dwindle 

One  quart  milk  scalded  (not  boiled),  with  three  well  beaten 
eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  one-third  box  of  Cox's 
gelatine  first  dissolved  in  bowl  of  milk.  Put  this  in  a  cool  place 
over  night.  In  morning  add  one  quart  of  cream,  two  or  three 
teaspoons  vanilla  and  either  new  milk  or  more  cream,  enough 
to  fill  one  gallon  freezer  within  two  or  three  inches  of  the  top. 
Then  freeze.     . 

ICED  TEA  OR  TEA  PUNCH-Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Juice  of  three  oranges  and  three  lemons.  Juice  and  pulp  of  one 
pineapple  shredded  finely  with  a  silver  fork;  over  this  pour  two 
cups  sugar,  add  six  lumps  sugar  rubbed  briskly  over  the  peel  of 
the  lemons  and  oranges;  one  quart  strong  cold  tea,  half  ceylon 
and  half  green,  and  one  quart  of  Apollinaris  Water  or  ice  water. 
Pour  all  this  over  a  large  lump  of  ice  in  a  punch  bowl  and  throw 
in  one  pint  of  any  fresh  fruit  in  season-  strawberries,  raspber- 
ries or  currants. 

FROZEN  PUDDING- Mrs.  Bryant 

One  generous  pint  milk,  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  scant  one- 
half  cup  flour,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  gelatine,  one  quart 
cream,  one  pound  French  candied  fruit,  four  tablespoons  wine. 
Let  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  the  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
the  eggs  together  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  twenty 
minutes  and  add  gelatine,  which  has  been   soaking  one  or  two 


90 

IF    YOU    NEED    ANY 


Men's  Clothes 
Boys'  Clothes 
Misses  Clothes 
Children's  Clothes 


cC^t°e  ROOS  BROS.,  San  Francisco 

FOR  THEIR  CATALOGUE  OR  SAMPLES 


DIXON    &    ELLIOTT 

High     Grade     Hardware,     Universal     Stoves     and      Ranges 
Tin,  Enameled  and  Aluminum  Ware 

RIDGWAY   BLOCK,  3rd  and  B  Streets,  SANTA  ROSA 


The  Best  Results  in  following  the  recipes 
in  this  book  can  be  obtained  by  getting 
your  ingredients  from  CnopiUS  &  Co. 

518  Second  Street,  Santa  Rosa 


91 

hours  in  water,  enough  to  cover  it;  set  away  to  cool;  when  cool 
add  wine,  sugar,  and  cream;  freeze  ten  minutes,  then  add  fruit 
and  finish  freezing.  Take  out  beater,  pack  smoothly  and  set 
away  for  an  hour  or  two.  When  ready  to  serve,  dip  the  tin  in 
warm  water,  turn  out  cream  and  serve  with  whipped  cream 
heaped  around  it, 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  can  pineapple,  one  pint  sugar,  one  pint  water,  two  table- 
spoons gelatine  (Cox's),  juice  of  three  lemons.  Boil  sugar  and 
water  ten  minutes,  cool,  add  gelatine  which  has  been  dissolved 
in  cup  of  water  one  hour.  Add  pineapple  and  lemon  juice.  At 
last  add  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  Jamaica 
rum.     Freeze, 

NECTAR— Mrs,  Sutherland 

Take  the  pulp  and  juice  of  one  dozen  naval  oranges,  one  and 
one-half  dozen  large  bananas  mashed  to  a  smooth  paste,  one 
pineapple  chopped  fine,  one  cup  shredded  cocoanut,  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar.     Freeze, 

MY  DOCTOR'S  ICE  CREAM- Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  tablespoon  gelatine  soaked  in  one  cup  of  milk  one  hour. 
Beat  one  egg  yolk  with  one  cup  sugar,  add  one  cup  cold  milk 
and  stir  this  with  cup  of  milk  and  gelatine.  Put  on  stove  and 
bring  to  scalding  point,  stirring  well,  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Take  sufficient  cream  to  nearly  fill  freezer  (three  pints)  and 
whip  with  egg  beaten  until  light,  not  stiff,  add  another  cup 
sugar.  Add  prepared  ingredients  and  flavor.  Beat  well  and 
then  add   whites  of  seven  or  eight  eggs  beaten  light.     Freeze. 

PLOMBIERE— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Take  the  above  recipe  of  ice  cream  and  after  the  cream  first 
begins  to  freeze  add  glazed  fruit  (sliced)  of  peaches,  apricots, 
cherries,  and  pineapple. 

AMBROSIA    Mrs.  Sutherland 

One  dozen  sliced  bananas,  one-half  dozen  oranges  sliced  very 
thin,  one  can  pineapple  chopped  fine,  one  cup  sugar.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  serve  ice  cold. 


92 


LEARN 


THE 


ELECTRICAL,  PLUMBING 
PLASTERING  or  BRICKLAYING 
—  TRADES 


Our  scholars  make  $6.00  per  day  and  over 
after  a  three  month's  course.  You  can  enter  at  any 
time.  No  previous  knowledge  or  education  nec- 
essary. Our  scholars  are  from  fifteen  to  fifty  years 
old.  No  Books — Tools  take  their  place.  Day  and 
night  sessions.    Call  or  write  for  Free  Catalogue. 


COYNE 


NATIONAL    TRADE     SCHOOL 

230-240  EIGHTH  ST,  SAN  FRANCISCO,  CAL 

SAN  FRANCISCO        -      -        NEW  YORK  -  -  CHICAGO 


93 
MILK  SHERBET- Mrs.  C.  B.  Laughlin 

Six  lemons,  five  cups  sugar,  two  quarts  milk,  two  tablespoons 
cornstarch.  Squeeze  juice  of  six  lemons  on  four  cups  sugar  and 
let  come  to  boil,  so  as  to  form  a  sort  of  syrup.  Put  skins  with 
a  pint  of  water  on  stove  and  let  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  then 
strain  into  syrup.  Scald  two  quarts  of  milk  with  two  table- 
spoons cornstarch  and  a  cup  of  sugar.  When  cold  put  in  freez- 
er, and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen,  add  syrup  and  freeze.  This 
makes  about  three  quarts. 

MAPLE  FRAPPE— Mrs.  C.  B.  Laughlin 

Six  well  beaten  eggs  (beaten  separately) ,  one  quart  cream, 
two  cups  maple  syrup,  one  tablespoonful  gelatine.  Beat  eggs 
well  and  add  maple  syrup;  heat  in  double  boiler  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Dissolve  gelatine 
in  one-half  cup  hot  water;  when  cold  add  to  whipped  cream. 
Stir  all  together  and  freeze. 

CREAM  SODA,  a  Cooling  Summer  Drink— Mrs.  J.  H.  Frese 

Four  pounds  coffee  sugar,  three  pints  water,  three  grated 
nutmegs,  whites  of  ten  eggs  well  beaten,  one  ounce  gum  arabic, 
twenty  drops  lemon,  or  extract  of  any  kind.  Mix  well,  place 
over  a  slow  fire,  stir  about  thirty  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire 
and  strain.  Divide  into  two  parts.  Into  one  half  put  eight 
ounces  carbonate  of  soda,  into  the  other  half  put  six  ounces 
tartaric  acid.  Shake  well.  When  cold  both  mixtures  are  ready 
for  use  by  pouring  four  spoonfuls  both  into  separate  glasses, 
each  one-third  full  of  water.  Stir  each  and  pour  together,  and 
you  have  a  fine  glass  of  soda,  which  you  can  drink  at  your  leis- 
ure, as  the  gum  and  eggs  hold  the  gas. 

PINEAPPLE  SUNDAE— Mrs.  W.  C.  Fowler 

Make  a  very  heavy  syrup  of  one  and  one-half  cups  white 
sugar  and  one-half  cup  water.  Let  boil  about  two  minutes, 
then  add  one  can  grated  pineapple,  and  boil  about  twenty  min- 
utes. Let  this  become  ice  cold  before  serving  over  any  kind 
of  ice  cream.  Nuts  or  berries  can  be  substituted  for  the  pine- 
apple. Four  or  five  drops  of  citric  acid  added  to  the  pineapple 
makes  it  more  tart. 

Gas  Stoves  and  Gas  Stove  Ovens  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


u 
GEORGE  R.  CAMPBELL  T.  L.  COFFEY 


EASTERN  MARBLE  and  GRANITE  WORKS 

DEALERS   IN  AND  MANUFACTURERS  OF 

MONUMENTS 

V  A  U  L.  T  S,    T  A  B  L,  E  T  S,    C  O  P  I  N  Ci 


Works  and  Yard,  29  South  Main  Street,  near  bridge 
SANTA  ROSA,    CALIFORNIA 

SANTA  ROSA'S  Largest  and  Best  DRUG  STORE 


HAHMAN  DRUG  COMPANY 

PRESCRIPTION    DRUGGISTS 

213   EXCHANGE  AVENUE 
SANTA  ROSA,  CALIFORNIA 

Flavoring  Extracts  a  Speialty 


'Aye.  to  the  leavening,  but  here's  yet  in  the  word  hereafter, 
the  kneading,  the  making  of  the  cake,  the  heating  of  the 
oven,  and  the  baking.  Nay,  you  must  stay  the  cooling, 
too,  or  you  may  chance  to  burn  your  mouth." 

Shakespeare. 


APPLE  JELLY  Cake- Mrs.  McKisick 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  milk,  three  eggs,  white  of  one  left  out,  two  and  one-half 
cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling:  One  large  grated  apple,  one  lemon  (grated  rind  and 
juice),  one  large  cup  sugar,  one  egg.  Boil  till  jelly  (ten  or  fif- 
teen minutes). 

NUT  Cake- Mrs.  A.  Faught 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  three  cups 
flour,  three  eggs,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  walnuts  (do  not  chop 
them  but  break  them  in  pieces) ,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one 
teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Bake  two  hours.  Put  walnuts  on  the 
frosting. 

NUT  Cake— Mrs.  McKisick 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  three  cups 
flour,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  cups  finely 
chopped  walnuts. 

CREAM  PUFFS-Mrs.  A.  Faught 

Melt  one-half  cup  butter  in  a  cup  of  hot  water  and  while  boil- 
ing beat  in  one  cup  flour.  Take  from  fire  and  when  cold  stir  in 
three  eggs  one  at  a  time  without  first  beating  them.  Drop  mix- 
ture on  tins  in  small  spoonfuls  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Filling:  One  and  one-half  cups  milk,  two  eggs,  four  table- 
spoons flour,  sugar  to  taste  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  up  eggs 


98 

and  sugar  and  stir  in  the  milk  with  flavoring  and  when  it  comes 
to  a  boil  stir  in  flour  mixed  smooth  in  a  little  milk,  cool  and  fill 
puffs  by  opening  them  a  very  little. 

BELMONT  Cake-Mrs.  McKisick 

One  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  five  cups  flour,  two  pounds  raisins,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoon nutmeg.  Boil  raisins  fifteen  minutes;  when  cold  flour 
them  well  to  prevent  them  from  falling.  Bake  one  hour.  This 
will  make  two  loaves. 

LEMON  COOKIES— Mrs.  Eldredge 

Two  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  large  cup  lard,  one 
pint  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  rather  stiff  dough,  five  cents 
worth  of  baking  ammonia  dissolved  in  the  milk,  five  cents 
worth  of  oil  of  lemon.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 

GINGER  BREAD- -Mrs.  Tartter 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  lard,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon each  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

WALNUT  WAFERS -Mrs.  Eldredge 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  three  heaping 
tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  chopped  walnuts.  One  teaspoon  for 
each  wafer  dropped  on  buttered  tins  and  on  top  of  each  wafer 
place  half  a  walnut.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 

CREAM  PUFFS- -Mrs.  Bryant 

One-half  pint  hot  water,  four  ounces  butter,  six  ounces  flour 
(sifted),  five  eggs.  Boil  water  and  butter;  and  while  boiling 
stir  in  flour  and  beat  until  smooth;  remove  from  stove  and  when 
lukewarm  add  beaten  yolks  and  then  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Drop  on  buttered  pans  and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven.  Fill 
with  whipped  cream. 

PLAIN  DOUGHNUTS— Mrs.  Tartter 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk  with  a  scant  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  or  two  eggs,  one  large  spoon  of  melted  butter.  Nut- 
meg for  flavoring,  flour  sufficient  to  roll  out. 


99 
COOKIES- Mrs.  Ford 

Cream  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  half  pound  sugar,  add  two 
eggs,  two  tablespoons  milk,  then  three-quarters  pound  flour  and 
half  pound  cornstarch  and  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix 
into  stiff  dough,  roll  out  quarter  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  over  with 
sugar,  cut  with  round  cutter;  flavor  to  taste. 

FRUIT  Cake -Mrs.  MaKee 

One  pound  sugar,  one-half  pound  butter,  five  well  beaten 
eggs  (reserve  whites  until  the  last),  one  teaspoon  ground  cin- 
namon, one  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoon  ground  all- 
spice, one-half  a  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  in  six  cups  sift- 
ed flour,  one  pound  each  of  currants  and  raisins,  one-half  pound 
citron,  one  cup  shredded  cocoanut,  one  cup  almonds  or  walnuts. 
Stir  well,  and  just  before  baking;,  add  one  cup  thick  sour  cream. 
Bake  slowly  for  three  hours. 

"BRACKEN"  SPICE  LAYER  Cake- Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  and  one-half 
cups  brown  sugar,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  cocca  and  a  little  cloves. 
After  all  is  well  beaten,  add  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  layers. 

Filling  for  Cake  Without  Eggs:  Two  cups  sugar,  butter 
size  of  egg,  three-quarters  cup  sweet  milk.  Boil  twenty-five 
minutes,  then  beat  until  stiff. 

ORANGE  Cake— Mrs.  Dwinelle 

Two  oranges,  two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one-half  cup 
water,  five  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  soda  and  one  teaspoon 
cream  tartar.  Use  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  oranges.  This 
makes  a  good  moist  sponge  cake  or  a  layer  cake,  by  reserving 
the  juice  and  rind  of  one  orange  and  white  of  one  egg  to  mix 
with  powdered  sugar  for  spreading  on  each  layer. 

MARBLE  Cake— Mrs.  J.  H.  Faught 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
one-half  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  (each)  cinnamon,  allspice, 
cloves,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

White  Part:  One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  white  sugar, 
whites  of  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups 
flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.     Flavor  with  lemon. 


100 


If  You  Want  Good  Goods 


USE 


HILL'S  BROS. 

Arabian 
Roast  Coffee 


Oyama  Tea 
Spices  and  Extracts 


101 
LEMON  Cake— Mrs.  Harvey 

Break  two  eggs  into  a  common  sized  cup  and  fill  with  rich 
sweet  cream.  Turn  into  a  mixing  bowl,  add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  cup  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Beat  together 
thoroughly.  Bake  in  two  pie  pans,  when  almost  cold  split  with 
a  broad  bladed  knife,  and  put  in  the  following  filling. 

Filling:  One  cup  boiling  water,  one  cup  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons cornstarch,  mixed  smooth  with  little  cold  water,  butter 
size  of  a  walnut,  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  juice  of  two  lemons. 
Have  water  boiling,  add  cornstarch,  sugar,  and  butter.  Let  boil 
until  clear  and  then  add  eggs  and  juice  of  lemon.  Boil  a  few 
minutes. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  Cake— Mrs.  J.  G.  Smith 

One-half  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  one-half  pint  milk, 
eight  eggs,  one  pound  flour,  four  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add 
beaten  yolks,  then  milk,  flour,  and  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Bake  in  quick  oven  in  five  or  six  layers. 

Filling:  Boil  three  cups  of  powdered  sugar  and  three-fourths 
cup  of  water  about  five  minutes.  Stir  the  boiling  syrup  into 
four  eggs  beaten  together.  Mix  with  two  cups  of  chopped 
raisins  and  two  cups  of  chopped  blanched  almonds.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  and  spread  between  layers. 

SPICE  Cake -Mrs.  Compton 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sour  milk,  three 
cups  flour,  one  cup  fruit  (currants  and  raisins),  three  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
one  teaspoon  soda  put  in  dry. 

GINGER  SNAPS- Mrs.  Wood 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  butter  or  lard, 
four  eggs,  six  teaspoons  soda,  twelve  teaspoons  of  ginger. 
Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 

CREAM  Cake-  Mrs.  Compton 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream  and  milk  mixed,  one  egg, 
two  and  a  half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons 
cream  tartar,  pinch  of  salt. 

Cream  for  Filling:  One  cup  sweet  cream  whipped,  two 
tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  lemon.  (I  usually  put  lemon 
in  cream  and  vanilla  in  cake. ) 


102 


What  kind  of  Groceries  do  you  buy? 

WELLMAN 


AND 


SILVER  THISTLE 

GROCERIES 

Comprise  all  of  the  Canned  Vegetables 

Fruit  and  Fish  of  the 

BEST  QUALITIES 

Any  article  packed  under  these  Brands  is 

Guaranteed  To  Be  Pure 
and  to  conform  to  all  Pure  Food  Laws 

For  Sale  by  T.  L.  ECKEL 


T.  L.  ECKLE 


FULTON  CALIFORNIA 


103 
SOFT  GINGER  BREAD     Mrs.  McKisick 

One  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  sour  milk,  three  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
soda.     Flavor  with  ginger  and  a  little  cinnamon. 

CHOCOLATE  Cake  <md  FILLING     Miss  Ella  Wood 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Whites  of  four  well  beaten  eggs  added  last. 

Filling:  Three-quarters  cup  grated  chocolate,  three-quarters 
cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar.  Yolks  of  four  well  beaten 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.    Boil  until  it  strings  from  spoon. 

APPLE  FRUIT  Cake-  Mrs  Jeff.  Maddux 

Soak  two  cups  of  dried  apples  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain  and  chop  fine,  add  one  cup  of  molasses  and  let  it  boil 
slowly  for  three  or  four  hours,  until  the  molasses  thickens.  Let 
stand  until  cool,  then  add  one  and  a  half  cups  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  butter,  half  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  tea- 
spoon allspice  and  one  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  soda,  three 
eggs,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Bake  in  two  square  or  one 
five  quart  tin.  If  baked  in  the  large  tin  bake  slowly  for  two 
and  a  half  hours.  A  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  added  makes 
the  cake  lighter. 

DRIED  APPLE  Cake- Mrs.  A.  Faught 

One  and  a  half  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  melted  but- 
ter, four  eggs,  four  and  a  half  cups  flour,  two  and  a  half  tea- 
spoons soda.  Soak  two  cups  dried  apples  over  night,  drain  and 
chop  fine  in  the  morning.  Boil  apples  two  hours  in  three  cups 
molasses.  Let  mixture  cool,  then  add  two  cups  seeded  raisins, 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice  to  taste.  Mix  with  first  mixture 
and  bake. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE  FOR  PLAIN  Cake- Mrs.  Bryant 

Beat  one-half  cup  butter  and  one  cup  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add 
the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff  and  a  large  cup  of  ripe  straw- 
berries mashed.     Pour  over  plain  cake  and  serve. 

LEMON  FILLING— Mrs.  Miller 

One  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  flour,  one  tablespoon  water,  one 
lemon,  juice  and  peel,  one  egg.  Boil  until  thick  in  double  boiler. 


104 
BOILED  WHITE  FROSTING -Mrs.  Bryant 

One  pint  sugar,  just  enough  water  to  moisten  it.  Boil  until 
it  strings  from  the  spoon.  Have  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  pour  drop  by  drop  the  hot  syrup  on  it.  Beat 
continually  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake.  Flavor  with 
vanilla, 

ICING— Mrs.  Tartter 

Two  cups  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  three-quarters  cup 
milk.     Boil  about  ten  minutes,  then  beat  until  thick. 

MARSH-MELLOW  FILLING  -Mrs.  Bryant 

Dissolve  over  night  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  marsh- 
mellows  in  one-half  pint  cream.  In  the  morning  beat  until 
smooth  and  spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. 

ANGEL  Cake-  Miss  Annie  LaugWin 

Whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  one-half  tumblers  (one  and 
one-half  pints)  sifted  granulated  sugar,  one  tumbler  sifted 
flour,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  scant  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 
Sift  the  flour  four  times,  then  add  cream  tartar  and  sift  again. 
Sift  sugar  four  times;  mix  flour  and  sugar  and  sift  four  times; 
beat  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs  on  a  large  platter  until  very 
light,  add  pinch  of  salt,  vanilla  and  three  tablespoons  cold 
water,  beating  continually.  Sift  in  dry  ingredients,  stirring 
just  enough  to  take  it  all  up.  Bake  about  forty-five  minutes, 
using  a  new  cake  pan  or  a  pan  that  has  never  been  greased. 
Do  not  open  oven  door  until  cake  has  been  in  fifteen  minutes. 
When  done,  take  from  oven  and  turn  cake  pan  upside  down  to 
cool,  letting  edge  of  pan  rest  on  three  cups.  When  cold,  take 
out  of  pan  by  loosening  around  edge  with  knife;  then  ice. 

Icing:  One  and  a  half  tumblers  sugar,  one-half  tumbler  cold 
water,  one-fifth  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Stir  until  all  melted 
and  strain;  now  place  on  stove  and  boil  until  it  hairs.  Do  not 
stir  while  boiling.  When  done  pour  in  a  piatter,  and  when  par- 
tially cool,  add  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Beat  until  cold;  if 
icing  gets  too  cold  or  stiff  set  platter  on  stove. 

Glass  and  Nickle  Plated  Towel  Rods  at  MAILER   HARDWARE  CO. 


1D5 
WALNUT  Cake— Mrs.  M.  E.  Slusser 

Whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  light,  one  and  one-half  cups  white 
sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  cups  walnuts  chopped 
fine.  Mix  cake  thoroughly  and  then  add  nuts  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Icing:  One  cup  white  sugar,  enough  water  to  dissolve  it 
Boil  until  it  strings.  Pour  over  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg 
while  hot,  beating  all  the  time. 

LAURA'S  BIRTHDAY  Cake  -Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  pulverized 
sugar,  three  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  cornstarch,  four  eggs,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.     Bake  in  loaf, 

CHOCOLATE  Cake-Mrs.  M.  E.  Slusser 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  cups  flour,  one  cup  cornstarch,  whites  of  five  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Filling:  Two  bars  of  Eagle  brand  chocolate  dissolved,  whites 
of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  two  cups  sugar,  boil  until  it  strings. 
Flavor  with  vanilla. 

COOKIES- Mrs.  Voss 

Two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one 
cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  flavor 
with  vanilla;  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 

GINGER.  COOKIES-  Mrs.  Voss 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  butter,  one  egg, 
one  tablespoon  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  one  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  mix  like  cooky  dough,  rather 
soft. 

SCOTCH  FRUIT  Cake-Mrs.  S.  J.  Briggs 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  four 
cups  flour  well  sifted  with  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  nine  eggs  beaten,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  one 
pound  raisins,  one-half  pound  currants,  one-quarter  pound  cit- 
ron. Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  gradually,  then  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  lastly,  while  stirring  in  the  flour,  the  whites 
well  whipped.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  each,  lemon  and  va- 
nilla. Have  raisins  seeded  and  citron  sliced  thin.  Wash  and  dry 
currants  before  using,  and  flour  all  fruit  slightly.  In  putting  in 


106 

/.  S.  SWEET,  A.  M.,  President  A.  J.  FUSCHIA,  Vice  President 

A.  B.  GLENN,  Principal  Shorthand  Dept.  A.  M.  CROUSE.  Secretary 


s/j/f.)/ywjj 


fY/sY/r 


AND   SCHOOL   OF   SHORTHAND   AND    TYPEWRITING 

Founded  in  the  Year  1891.     "No  Better  School  Anywhere  at  Any  Price" 

BOOKKEEPING 

BUSINESS  ARITHMETIC  CORRESPONDENCE 

BUSINESS  PRACTICE  PENMANSHIP 

BUSINESS  LAW  GRAMMAR 

SHORTHAND  AND  TYPEWRITING 

What  Makes  This  a  Great  School? 

1.  It  occupies  its  own  building  which  was  made  for  its  use. 

2.  It  has  every  facility  for  imparting  a  thorough  business  training. 

3.  Its  courses  of  study  are  modern  and  based  upon  the  actual  demands 
of  business. 

4.  It  does  not  scatter  its  energies  by  trying  to  teach  many  different 
subjects. 

5.  It  Confines  its  work  to  only  two  courses  of  study:  Business, 
Shorthand,  and  Typewriting. 

P.  It  gives  to  every  student  the  benefit  of  individual  attention  as 
well  as  of  class  instruction. 

7.  Its  office  equipment  is  the  finest  on  the  Pacific  Coast. 

8.  It  operates  four  banks,  eight  wholesale  concerns,  twelve  commission 
houses,  real  estate,  insurance,  express  and  transportation  offices. 

9.  It  has  a  faculty  of  teachers  experienced  in  actual  office  work,  teach- 
ers who  know  the  needs  of  business,  and  who  know  how  to  instruct 
students  to  supply  that  need  with  a  high  degree  of  efficiency. 

10.  It  has  opportunities  for  social  and  cultural  enjoyment  afforded  by 
no  other  business  college  on  the  Pacific  Coast.     Ask  our  graduates. 

11.  Its  rates  of  tuition  are  as  low  as  any  other  reputable  business  col- 
lege in  the  State  and  much  below  those  of  the  large  schools  of  the 
great  cities. 

We  do  not  claim  to  be  the  largest  school;  that  is  not  our  ambition;  but 
we  do  claim  to  stand  among  the  very  besl  in  any  country,  east  or  west. 
Address  all  communications  to  J.  S.  Sweet,  A.  M.,  President,  Santa 
Rosa,  Cal. 

SWEET'S  SANTA  ROSA  BUSINESS  COLLEGE 
THE  GREAT  BUSINESS    UNIVERSITY    OF    CALIFORNIA 

ROSS  STREET,  SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 


107 

pan  place  first  a  thin  layer  of  cake,  then  sprinkle  in  some  of  the 
three  kinds  of  fruit,  then  a  layer  of  cake  and  so  on,  always  fin- 
ishing- off  with  a  thin  layer  of  cake.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  two  hours.     (Tested  by  many  and  never  failed. ) 

DELLA'S  CHOCOLATE  Cake— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three 
cups  flour,  whites  of  seven  or  eight  eggs,  two  teaspoons  yeast 
powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.     Bake  in  dripping  pan. 

Filling:  One  cup  chocolate,  three  cups  sugar,  three-quarters 
cup  sweet  milk,  three  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly  and  boil  twenty 
minutes.     Let  it  cool  a  little  before  putting  on  cake. 

COCOANUT  POUND  Cake— Mrs.  Voss 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  five  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  one  teaspoon  soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar  stirred 
into  four  cups  sifted  flour.  After  beating  all  well  together  add 
a  small  cocoanut  grated.  Line  the  cake  pans  with  well  buttered 
paper.  Spread  over  the  top  a  thin  frosting  sprinkled  thickly 
with  cocoanut. 

NANNIE'S  LAYER  Cake- Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups 
flour,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Flavor  to  taste 
Put  sugar  and  flour  in  mixing  bowl  and  stir  well.  Beat  eggs 
separately,  add  milk  to  yolks,  add  this  to  flour  and  stir  well. 
Add  butter  warmed  and  beat  thoroughly.  Now  add  baking 
powder,  and  last  cut  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten. 

FAMILY  FRUIT  Cake- Mrs.  Knight 

Three  pounds  dry  flour,  one  pound  sweet  butter,  one  pound 
sugar,  three  pounds  stoned  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  three- 
quarters  pound  sweet  almonds  blanched,  one  pound  citron  sliced 
fine,  twelve  eggs,  one  tablespoon  each  allspice  and  cinnamon, 
two  tablespoons  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  wineglass 
wine,  one-half  pint  brandy  (wine  may  be  omitted  if  desired), 
one  coffee  cup  molasses  with  spice  in  it,  steep  this  gently  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes,  not  boiling  hot;  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  put 
fruit  in  last  stirring  it  gradually;  also  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  tablespoon  of  water.  The  fruit  should  be  well  floured; 
if  necessary  add  flour  after  the  fruit  is  in.  Butter  a  sheet  of 
paper  and  line  the  pan,  bake   three  or  four  hours   according  to 


108 


Riddle,  Bacigalupi  &  Co. 


RELIABLE 


FOOTWEAR 


When  in  need  of  a  pair  of  shoes  call    on    us    and    we    will 

treat  you  right 

Riddle,  Bacigalupi  &  Co. 

519  Fourth  Street  -  Santa  Rosa 


Ask  for  it! 

Excellent    and     Nutritious 

QUEEN    ANNE    FLOUR 

Hammond  Milling  Co. 

Seattle       -       -       San  Francisco    -     -    Los  Angeles 


109 

thickness  of  loaves,  in  a  tolerably  hot  oven  and  with  steady 
heat.  Let  it  cool  in  the  oven  gradually.  Ice  when  cold.  It 
improves  the  cake  to  add  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  to  the 
flour.  This  is  a  fine  wedding  cake  recipe,  and  can  be  made 
smaller  by  taking  one-third  of  all  the  ingredients  required. 

WHITE  CAKE  WITH  CAR.OMEL  FILLING— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  butter, 
one  cup  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  corn- 
starch, two  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Bake  in  layers. 

Caromel  Filling:  One  and  one-half  cups  cream,  one  and 
one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  three  tablespoons  butter,  three 
tablespoons  vanilla,  two  tablespoons  flour.  Cook  until  thickens 
and  spread  between  layers. 

NUT  Cake- -Mrs.  W.  E.  Woolsey 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two 
eggs  (beaten  separately),  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one  pint  nuts  (mixed,  or  of 
one  kind  as  convenient)  blanched  and  chopped.  Flavor  with 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Put  in  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  mode- 
rate oven.  The  longer  it  is  kept  the  better  it  grows.  Iced  and 
with  nut-meats  on  top,  it  is  very  attractive. 

ROCKS— Miss  Blanche  Hoffer 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
chopped  walnuts,  three-fourths  pound  raisins,  one  cup  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  pinch  salt, 
two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  eggs. 

RASPBERRY  Cake— Mrs.  M.  D.  Brown 

One  and  one-half  cups  unsifted  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one-half 
teaspoon  soda,  seven  tablespoonfuls  milk.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling:  One  cup  raspberries  thoroughly  mashed,  two-thirds 
cup  sugar,  white  of  one  egg.  Beat  until  thick  and  spread  be- 
tween and  on  top  of  layers. 

GOLD  LOAF  Cake— Mrs.  J.  M.  Laughlin 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  granulated 
sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk,  two 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  scant  half 
teaspoon  soda,  flavor  to  taste.  Sift  flour  once  and  measure,  add 
soda  and  sift  three  times.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Beat  yolks 


110 

about  half,  then  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Add  this  to  creamed  butter  and  sugar,  and  stir  thoroughly;  add 
milk,  then  flour,  then  flavor;  stir  very  hard.  Put  in  a  slow  oven. 
Bake  in  Mrs.  Van  Deusen's  pans,  or  pans  that  have  never  been 
greased. 

WHITE  LOAF  Cake-Mrs.  J.  M.  Laughlin 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  granulated 
sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  two 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  scant  half 
teaspoon  soda.  Flavor  to  taste.  Sift  the  flour  once  and  measure; 
add  soda  and  sift  three  tirnes.  Cream  butter  and  sugar;  whip 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  foam,  then  add  cream  of  tartar  and  whip 
until  very  stiff;  add  creamed  sugar  and  butter,  then  milk,  then 
flour,  then  flavor,  and  stir  very  hard.     Put  in  a  slow  oven. 

MACAROONS  — Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  stiff  froth;  add  one-fourth 
pound  powdered  sugar,  one-half  pound  cocoanut,  one-half  pint 
rolled  and  sifted  cracker  crumbs.  Flavor  with  bitter  almond. 
Drop  on  buttered  paper,  making  little  cakes. 

CAKE  FILLING— Miss  Abbie  Finley 

.  One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one  cup  water, 
nine  tablespoons  vinegar.  Boil  until  thick  like  candy.  Then 
stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  marshmallows.  Boil  up  again  and  spread  between  layers, 
letting  each  layer  of  filling  cool  before  placing  another  on 
top  of  it. 

"FANNY'S"  WHITE  Cake-Mrs.  Jos.  DuBois 

Two  cups  sugar  and  three-fourths  cup  butter  creamed  to- 
gether; one  cup  milk,  whites  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  three  cups 
flour,  and  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.     Flavor. 

COCOANUT  KISSES— Miss  Irma  G.  Slusser 

Beat  together  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  as  much  granu- 
lated sugar  as  they  will  hold,  making  a  rather  stiff  batter.  Add 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  or  lemon  extract.  When  beaten  perfectly  smooth  add 
grated  cocoanut,  which  should  be  fresh  and  carefully  prepared. 


Ill 

Stir  in  the  cocoanut,  beating  for  a  few  minutes.  Then  drop 
upon  buttered  tins,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  and  then  place  in 
the  oven  until  slightly  brown. 

CORONA  BRIDE'S  Cake-  -Miss  Abbie  Finley 

Cream  together  one  scant  cup  butter  and  three  cups  of  sugar; 
one  cup  milk,  the  beaten  whites  of  twelve  eggs;  sift  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  into  cup  of  cornstarch  mixed  with 
three  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Mix  well  together  and  flavor  to  taste. 

DEVIL  Cake— Mrs.  M.  D.  Brown 

One-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  brown 
sugar,  two  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda  (level)  dis- 
solved in  milk.  Boil  the  following  to  a  cream  (don't  scorch) 
and  stir  into  the  above  while  hot:  One-half  cup  milk,  three- 
fourths  cup  brown  sugar,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  cup  ground 
chocolate,  two  teaspoons  vanilla.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling:  Two  cups  white  sugar,  eight  tablespoons  water. 
Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread,  then  pour  it  onto  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  until  cool.  Chocolate  may  be  added  to 
make  the  filling  darker. 

APPLE  FILLING- Mrs.  J.  H.  Frese 

Four  grated  apples,  one  grated  lemon  rind  and  piece  of  lemon, 
one  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil 
all  together  until  creamy,  or  until  it  drops  from  spoon,  stirring 
all  the  time.     Let  it  cool  before  using. 

POTATO    CARAMEL  Cake-Mrs.  C.  B.  Laughlin 

One  cup  butter,  one  and  three-quarters  cups  sugar,  four  eggs, 
two  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup 
chopped  nuts,  one  cup  chocolate,  one-half  cup  milk,  three  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  all- 
spice, nutmeg,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cloves,  vanilla,  salt.  Bake 
in  layers.     Use  caramel  filling. 

WORLD'S  FAIR  Cake- Mrs.  John  Clay 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  eggs  beaten 
separately,  one  large  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  chocolate.  When  all  is  well  mixed  add  three  level 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  scalded 
milk.     Bake  in  large  flat  dripping  pan. 


112 


M.J.B.    COFFEE 


J  NO.  W.  GODFREY 

Manufacturer  of  and  Dealer  in 

Fine  Harness  and  Saddlery  Goods  of  all  kinds, 

including  Whips,  Robes,  Blankets,  Oils 

Soaps,  Combs,  Brushes,  Cushions 

Collar  Pads,   and  things  too 

numerous  to  mention. 

Suit  Cases,  Leather  Bags,  Gloves,  Belts,  Purses 

Repairing  and  Carriage  trimming  promptly 

and  neatly  done. 

I  have  the  only  shop  in  this  city  equipped  with  a 

Campbell  wax  thread  machine:  its  work  is  sup= 

erior  to  hand  work,  come  in  and  see  it  work. 

Visit  my  shop  and  I  will  explain  why. 

543  Third  St.,  opp.  Exchange  Ave, 

SANTA  ROSA,  CAL. 


113 

Frosting:  Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk.  Boil  fifteen  minutes.  Stir  until 
just  cool  enough  to  spread  on  cake.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

MOLASSES  Cake  (Without  Eggs) -Miss  C.  Denner 

One  cup  sugar,  one  of  molasses,  one  of  sour  milk,  four  of 
flour,  half  a  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  the  milk.     Beat  up  quickly  and  bake  in  two  pans. 

ROLL  JELLY  Cake-  -Miss  C.  Denner 

One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  beat  until  very  light;  one  cup  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  lastly  four  tablespoons  boiling 
water.     Bake  in  dripping-pan,  spread  with  jelly  and  roll. 

POTATO  Cake— Miss  Abbie  Finley 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  four  eggs, 
one  cup  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  grated  chocolate,  one  cup 
chopped  walnuts,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flavor. 

SPONGE  Cake-Mrs.  J.  M.  Laughlin 

Four  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Cream  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar, 
then  add  flour  and  baking  powder,  and  well  beaten  whites. 
Stir  all  together  well  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

COOKIES— Mrs.  Fenton 

Four  eggs,  one  and  three- fourths  cups  sugar,  one  cup  shorten- 
ing, four  tablespoons  sour  cream  or  milk,  one  level  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  cold  water,  nutmeg  or  other  flavoring,  flour 
to  make  a  soft  dough. 

GERMAN  PUFF  DOUGHNUTS-Mrs.  J.  H.  Frese 

Two  eggs,  one  quart  flour,  a  little  salt.  Mix  with  milk  or 
water  stiff  enough  to  roll  very  thin.  Cut  in  strips  or  squares, 
fry  in  hot  lard  or  oil.  Sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  them 
when  brown. 

CAKE  FILLING-  Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One-fourth  pound  sweet  butter  (unsalted),  one  cup  powdered 
sugar,  beaten  very  light;  stir  in  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one-half 
cup  steamed  Baker's  Chocolate;  vanilla. 

You  will  Always  Smile  and  Be  Happy  if  You  Cook  on  a  Charm  Mohawk  Stove 


114 

SUNSHINE  Cake— Mrs.  J.  M.  Laughlin 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  scant  one-third 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  pinch  salt  added  to  whites  before  whip- 
ping, flavor  to  taste.  Sift,  measure,  and  set  aside  flour  and  sugar. 
Separate  the  eggs,  beat  yolks  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  whites  to  a 
foam,  and  add  cream  of  tartar  and  whip  until  very  stiff.  Add 
sugar  to  the  whites  and  beat,  then  yolks  and  beat,  then  flavor- 
ing, then  flour  and  fold  lightly  through. 

PORK  Cake— Mrs.  John  Clay 

One  pound  fat  salt  pork  entirely  free  of  lean  or  rind,  chopped 
so  fine  as  to  be  almost  like  lard;  pour  one-half  pint  boiling 
water  upon  one  pound  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  one-fourth 
pound  citron  shaved  into  shreds;  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, one  teaspoonful  saleratus  rubbed  fine  and  put  in  the 
molasses.  Mix  these  all  together  and  stir  in  sifted  flour  to 
make  the  consistency  of  common  cake  mixture;  then  stir  in  one 
ounce  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  two  ounces  nutmeg.  Be 
governed  about  the  time  of  baking  it  by  trying  with  a  sliver; 
when  nothing  adheres  it  is  done.     Bake  slowly. 

CARAMEL   Cake— Mrs.  J.  H.  Mitchell 

Cream  together  one  cup  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  butter. 
Add  yolk  of  one  egg,  two  small  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  salt,  and  one  cup  milk.  Beat 
thoroughly  and  bake  in  layers. 

Filling:  One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup 
water.  Boil  until  it  strings.  Remove  from  stove  and  add  the 
well  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  beat 
until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

DOUGHNUTS-Mrs.  G.  O.  Guy 

One  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  beaten  together.  Add  seven 
teaspoonfuls  melted  lard,  pinch  of  salt,  one  nutmeg,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  about  one  quart  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
This  makes  about  thirty  doughnuts. 

DOUGHNUTS— Miss  M.  J.  Briggs 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  cooking 
spoons  sour  cream,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
milk,  one  teaspoon  ginger,  one  nutmeg,  salt,  flour  to  make  soft 
dough. 


115 
LEMON  HONEY- Mrs.  J.  H.  Faught 

Six  well  beaten  eggs,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  juice  of  three 
lemons,  one  pound  white  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  butter. 
Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  and  add  lemon.  When  hot 
add  eggs.  Stir  briskly  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  cool.  Can 
be  kept  for  months.     To  be  used  for  cakes  or  tarts. 

FRUIT  Cake— Mrs.  W.  C.  Fowler 

One  and  one-half  cups  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  milk  and  thin  cream  mixed,  six  cups  sifted  flour,  four 
eggs,  one  glass  sherry  wine,  one  and  one-half  pounds  raisins, 
one  and  one-half  pounds  currants,  one-fourth  pound  citron,  two 
(or  less)  cups  dried  prunes  (which  have  been  boiled  for  an 
hour  in  syrup),  one-half  glass  tart  jelly,  either  plum  or  berry, 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  allspice,  one-half 
teaspoonful  cloves.     Flour  fruit  before  mixing. 

NUT  Cake— Miss  M.  J.  Briggs 

One  cup  seedless  raisins,  one  cup  chopped  nuts  (one  kind  or 
mixed  nuts),  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup 
butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  flour  to  make  stiff  dough. 

ROLLED  OATS  MACAROONS— Mrs.  Baldwin 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  rolled  oats.  Drop  on  buttered  pans  in  pieces  about 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  two  or  three  inches  apart.  Bake  in  quick 
oven. 

GINGER  Cake- -Mrs.  G.  0.  Guy 

One  cup  molasses,  one  tablespoon  lard  and  one  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  boiling  water.  Beat  together,  then  beat  in  the  yolk  of 
one  egg,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  ginger,  one 
teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  hot  water.  Beat  in  white  of  one  egg 
last. 


116 

J.  B.  SHRIYER 
GENERAL    CONTRACTING 

BUILDING,  PAINTING,  PLUMBING  and  PAPER  HANGING 

Jigent  For 

Red  Cross  Wind  Mills,  Pipe  and  Fittings 

Fxcelsior  Adjustable  Round  HooK  TanKs 

Pattons  Sun  Proof  Paints,   Oils  and  "WKite  Lead 

'Wall  Paper,  Linings,  Curtains 

and  Draperies 

Material  FurnisHed  at  MarKet  Prices 

All  worK  guaranteed  Prices  rVig'Ht 

Address  Box  12       FULTON,      or  call  at  Residence 


GEO.  C.  HOLBROOK 

PIANO  TUNER 

REGULATING  REBUILDING  REPAIRING 

521  Fifth  Street  SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 

Second  hand  ^Pianos  For  Sale 


F.  J.  POOL 


DEALER     IN 


GENERAL    MERCHANDISE 

I.  O.  O.  F.    BUILDING 

WINDSOR,  CAL. 


"'Peter  Piper  picked  a  peck  of  pickled  peppers." 

GRAPE  Pickles-  Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Laughlin 

One  gallon  grapes,  one  quart  vinegar,  one  quart  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  cinnamon,  two  tablespoons  cloves.  Free  bunches 
of  muscat  grapes  (of  withered  grapes)  and  wash  well.  Now  dip 
several  times  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  place  in  stone 
jar.  Boil  sugar  and  vinegar  together  with  spice  which  is  tied 
up  in  thin  cloth;  pour  over  grapes  hot.  Let  cool  and  tie  up  well. 

Pickled  GRAPES— Mrs.  A.  Faught 

Fill  a  jar  with  layers  of  sugar  and  nice  bunches  of  grapes, 
not  too  ripe;  fill  one-third  full  of  good  cold  vinegar  and  cover 
tightly. 

PLUM  JAM-Mrs.  Dwinelle 

To  seven  pounds  of  Damson  plums  add  four  pounds  sugar, 
one  pint  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  ground  cloves  and  one  small 
spoonful  whole  mace.  Put  spice  in  a  bag.  Boil  four  hours  over 
slow  fire,  stirring  occasionally. 

Pickled  GREEN  TOMATOES— Mrs.  James  Laughlin 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  onions.  Slice  tomatoes 
and  onions  thin  and  sprinkle  with  one  pint  salt.  Let  stand 
over  night;  next  morning  drain  and  cover  with  vinegar  and 
one-quarter  pound  of  mustard  seed  and  a  few  sticks  of  cinna- 
mon. Tie  up  loosely  in  cloth,  one-half  pound  mustard,  one 
ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  of  ginger.  Let  all  simmer  about 
twenty  minutes. 

TOMATO  CATSUP— Mrs.  Purrington 

Twenty  large  ripe  tomatoes,  six  good  sized  onions,  three  large 
green  peppers,  three  tablespoons  salt,  six  tablespoons  brown 
sugar,  three  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon,  two  small  teaspoons 
ground  ginger,  one-half  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  six  cups  gocd 
vinegar.     Mash  the  tomatoes,  chop  or  slice   the  onions  and 


120 

peppers.  Mix  all  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  boil  till  perfectly  soft 
and  when  cool  rub  them  through  a  colander  and  cook  down  to 
a  proper  consistency,  that  of  catsup,  and  bottle  for  use. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PRESERVES-Mrs.  Jeff.  Maddux 

Eight  pounds  of  small  green  tomatoes  (pierce  each  with  a 
fork),  seven  pounds  sugar,  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  one  ounce 
of  ginger  and  mace  mixed.  Heat  all  together  slowly  and  boil  un- 
til fruit  is  clear.  Take  from  kettle  in  a  perforated  skimmer  and 
spread  on  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  syrup  till  thick,  put  fruit  in  jars 
and  pour  syrup  over  hot.     Keep  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

PICALILLI— Mrs.  J.  H.  Faught 

Two  dozen  cucumbers,  two  heads  cabbage  chopped  fine  and 
let  stand  over  night  with  two  cups  salt  mixed  in  it.  Fifteen 
long  green  peppers  chopped  fine,  five  dozen  small  silver  onions. 
Soak  peppers  and  onions  well  in  salt  water,  drain  all  thoroughly, 
two  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  two  ounces  celery  seed,  one 
ounce  timmeric  powder,  one-half  pound  mustard  dissolved  in 
vinegar,  one-half  pound  brown  sugar,  cover  all  with  cider  vine- 
gar and  boil  thirty  minutes. 

CHILI  SAUCE- -Mrs.  Baldwin 

Two  red  peppers,  eighteen  ripe  tomatoes,  six  large  onions, 
three  cups  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  salt,  six  tablespoons 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  mustard,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon.  Chop 
tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers  fine.  Boil  one  hour;  then  add  vin- 
egar, mustard,  salt  and  sugar.     Seal  well. 

HYDEN  SAUCE— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  gallon  finely  chopped  cabbage,  one-half  gallon  finely 
chopped  green  tomatoes,  one  quart  finely  chopped  onions,  one 
pint  finely  chopped  green  peppers.  Remove  seeds  from  green 
peppers,  sprinkle  with  a  tea  cup  of  salt.  Let  stand  about  six 
hours  and  then  bag  and  hang  up  to  drain.  Let  hang  all  night. 
In  morning  place  on  stove  two  quarts  vinegar,  two  pounds 
brown  sugar,  two  ounces  Tumeric,  one  tablespoon  celery  seed, 
one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  four  tablespoons  ground  mustard. 
Heat  to  boiling  and  add  the  chopped  greens.  Set  on  back  of 
stove  and  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Set  in  small  jars  and  cover 
with  grated  horseradish. 

LISK  Cooking  Utensils  and  Enamel  Ware  at  MAILER   HARDWARE  CO. 


121 
ADELE'S  Pickles— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Pick  small  cucumbers  fresh  from  vine,  put  in  a  jar  and  cover 
with  water,  allowing  one  pint  of  salt  to  one  gallon  of  cucumbers. 
Let  soak  over  night.  Next  morning  place  one-half  gallon  of 
vinegar  on  stove,  let  come  to  near  a  boil,  put  pickles  in  and  let 
simmer  about  ten  minutes  (be  sure  and  not  let  them  boil. )  At 
the  same  time  put  on  the  stove  in  another  kettle  one-half  gallon 
vinegar  (more  or  less  according  to  how  many  jars  are  to  be  put 
up. )  To  this  vinegar  add  one  pint  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 
alum,  two  tablespoons  black  pepper,  mustard,  ginger,  cinna- 
mon and  mace.  Tie  spices  up  in  a  bag  and  boil  slowly  ten 
minutes.  When  pickles  have  simmered  long  enough  pack  down 
in  glass  jars.  Pour  over  the  hot  spiced  vinegar,  put  in  a  good 
piece  of  horseradish  and  five  or  six  cloves  to  each  jar  and  seal. 

APPLE  AND  CRANBERRY  JELLY— Mrs.  R.  H.  Thomson 

Two  cups  apple  juice,  one  cup  cranberry,  three  cups  sugar. 
When  you  are  tired  of  making  plain  apple  jelly,  this  is  very 
pretty  and  the  flavor  is  excellent. 

MUSTARD  Pickles— Mrs.  W.  P.  Slusser 

One  quart  each  small  whole  cucumbers,  large  cucumbers 
sliced,  green  tomatoes  sliced,  and  small  "button  onions;  one 
large  cauliflower  divided  into  small  parts,  and  four  green  pep- 
pers cut  fine.  Make  a  brine  of  four  quarts  of  water  and  one 
pint  of  salt;  pour  it  over  the  mixture  of  vegetables  and  let  it 
soak  twenty-four  hours.  Heat  just  enough  to  scald  it,  and  turn 
into  a  colander  to  drain.  Mix  one  cup  of  flour,  six  tablespoons 
of  ground  mustard,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  tumeric  with 
enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  sufficient  vinegar  to  make  two  quarts  in  all.  Boil 
this  mixture  until  it  thickens  and  is  smooth,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Then  add  the  vegetables  and  cook  until  well  heated 
through.     Put  in  jars  and  seal. 

PRUNE  Pickles- Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Laughlin 

One  pint  very  strong  vinegar,  three  pints  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon cinnaman,  one  tablespoon  allspice,  one  teaspconful  cloves. 
Stir  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Put  in  enough  prunes  to  make  a 
pint  jar  full,  leave  them  in  just  long  enough  to  be  heated 
through,  and  fill  pint  jar  with  hot  prunes,  adding  as  much  juice 
as  jar  will  hold,  and  seal.  Put  more  prunes  in  the  boiling  vine- 
gar and  proceed  as  before. 


122 

C.  WALTER   REED 

DENTIST 

BARNETT    BUILDING 

OVER    RIDDLE,  BACIGALUPI     SCO  SANTA      ROSA,     CAL 

C.  D.  ROBERTS  W.  B.  SIMPSON 

SIMPSON  &  ROBERTS 

Contractors  and  Builders 

Windows,    Doors,    Roofing,    Roofing    Paint,   Sheathing   Paper 
Sash    Weights,    Glass 

432  thTrd  st.        SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 

Mrs.  L.  J.  BEARSS 
FINE  MILLINERY 

Phone  Main  504 

627  Fourth  Street  SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 

HENRY  HEM 

DEALER  IN 

Groceries,  Flour,  Feed  and  Notions 

Fourth  and  North  Sts. 
Phone  Black  4691  SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 


123 
CHILI  SAUCE-Mrs.  G.  O.  Guy 

Peel  and  cut  in  small  pieces  twenty  ripe  tomatoes,  two  red 
peppers,  two  onions,  four  cups  vinegar,  four  tablespoons  sugar, 
two  tablespoons  salt,  two  tablespoons  ginger,  one  tablespoon 
each  cloves  and  allspice.     Boil  two  hours  and  bottle. 

SPICED  CHERRIES- Mrs  R.  H.  Thomson 

Eight  pounds  Queen  Anne  cherries  (stones  removed),  four 
pounds  sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  and  two  tablespoons  cloves, 
just  enough  water  to  moisten  sugar.  Let  them  come  to  a  boi!, 
then  put  in  two  tablespoons  whole  cloves  tied  in  a  thin  cloth. 
In  a  few  minutes  put  in  the  vinegar,  then  remove  the  fruit  into 
the  jars  and  let  the  syrup  boil  down  a  little.  Pour  into  the  jars 
and  seal. 

CHICAGO  CHILI  SAUCE  (No  Cooking) —Mrs.  M.  J.  Granger 

One  peck  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  fine.  Drain  as 
dry  as  possible.  Two  cups  chopped  onions,  two  cups  chopped 
celery,  two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  salt,  four  ounces  white 
mustard  seed,  one  teaspoon  ground  mace,  one  teaspoon  black 
pepper,  one  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  four  green  peppers 
chopped  fine,  three  pints  vinegar.  Mix  well  and  put  in  jars. 
Seal  and  turn  upside  down  over  night. 

OIL  Pickles-  Mrs.  Chas.  Hoffer 

Take  one  hundred  small  cucumbers  and  seventy-five  small 
white  onions.  Slice  very  thinly,  separately,  and  soak  over 
night  in  salt  water.  Dra;n  in  the  morning  and  pack  in  a  jar  in 
alternate  layers  with  mustard  and  celery  seed  sprinkled  in. 
Pour  over  all  olive  oil  and  vinegar  in  proportion  of  one-third 
oil  to  two-thirds  vinegar.  Keep  two  weeks  before  using.  More 
oil  can  be  used  if  desired. 


124 

A  WELL  PREPARED  DISH 

DOES    NOT    AMOUNT   TO    VERY    MUCH  UNLESS    IT    IS 
PROPERLY  SERVED.     BE  SURE  TO  USE  ON  YOUR  TABLE 

K.  WALLACE  Silverware 

Its  good,  for  it  Kesists  Wear 
JOHN  HOOD,  Jeweler  545  Fourth  Street 

SIGN  OF  THE  BIG  CLOCK 


Mrs.  FANNY  EDGAR 

UpTo-Date  MILLINERY 

416  FOURTH  STREET 
Santa  Rosa,  CaL 


"CITY  OF  SANTA  ROSA" 

The   Exclusive  Dry  Goods,  Cloak  and  Suit  House 

ROHRER,  EINHORN  &  CO 

S.  W.  CORNER  FOURTH  and  B   STREETS 


laiMlt'S 

ART      and     C^SIPIIT    SHOP 

Pictures,  Frames,   Artists   Materials,   Mouldings 
Window  Shades,  Hirrors,  Glass 

426  FOURTH  STREET,  SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 


"Sweets  to  the  Sweet" 

CREAM  CANDY  -Mrs.  Bryant 

Two  coffee  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  teacup  hot  water,  one 
large  kitchen  spoonful  of  glucose,  pinch  of  cream  tartar.  Stir 
on  stove  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  without  stirring  un- 
til it  strings  or  threads  from  the  spoon.  Pour  into  platter,  flavor 
with  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  let  cool  for  five  or  ten  minutes, 
then  beat  until  it  turns  a  white  creamy  mass. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS- -Mrs.  W.  C.  Fowler 

One  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  white  sugar,  one-fourth  pound 
chocolate,  one  heaping  tablespoon  butter.  Boil  until  it 'hardens 
when  dripped  onto  a  buttered  plate.  Pour  it  onto  buttered 
plates  or  slab  of  marble.  When  cold  cut  in  squares  and  wrap 
each  square  in  waxed  paper.     Stir  continually  while  cooking. 

FUDGE- Mrs.  Wilkinson 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one  cup  milk, 
two  heaping  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  one  cup  chopped  nuts.  Boil  all  together  from  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes.  Test  by  stirring  a  small  quantity  in  a  cup. 
Stir  the  mixture  while  boiling  constantly  and  also  after  taking 
off  stove    until  it  is  cool. 

PANOCHE—Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  white  sugar, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  two  tablespoons  milk;  place  these  in- 
gredients in  a  granite  pan,  set  over  a  good  fire,  and  stir  con- 
stantly for  about  four  minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil.  Test  by 
dropping  a  bit  in  cold  water;  if  it  gets  tough,  but  not  brittle,  it 
is  done;  stir  in  one  cup  of  shelled  peanuts  and  pour  on  buttered 
plates. 


128 


DA.NL   h     lafferty 


WILSON    C      SMITH 


1 
I 


IGaffrrig  &  £>mttlj 

UNDERTAKERS 

CALLS      ANSWERED       DAY      AND      NIGHT 

LADY    ATTENDANT 


I 


Parlors.  Fifth  ako  A  Streets 
Phone  Main  85 


Santa  Rosa.  Cal 


W. H. LEE 


F.  M.  COOPER 


LEE    BFkOS.  &  CO. 

EXPRESS  AND  DRAYMEN  CITY    BILL   POSTERS 


PIANOS  and  FURNITURE 
Carefully  Handled 

BAGGAGE  CALLED  FOK 
and  Checked  to  all  Points 

GOODS  TAKEN  ON  STORAGE 


telephones 


1 12  FOURTH  ST,      w  HoLFEFECREEsMAIRNE6D043e2    SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 


C.  E.  LEE    RES..  MAIN    399 


EUGENE    C.  FARMER 

PRESCRIPTION     DRUGGIST 


701  Fourth  St  Cor.  D.       phone  main  50        Santa   Rosa.  California 


129 
CREAM  DATES— Miss  Irrrra  G.  STusser 

Boil  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  three-fourths  of 
cupful  of  sweet  milk;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Boil 
about  ten  minutes.  Let  it  cool;  when  lukewarm  beat,  adding  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  When  it  becomes  soft  and  creamy 
have  ready  seeded  dates,  fill  with  this  cream  and  serve. 

CREAM  CANDY- Mrs.  W.  C.  Fowler 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one-half  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Add  flavoring  after  taking 
from- stove.  Let  water,  sugar,  and  cream  of  tartar  boil  until 
it  hairs  from  spoon.  Set  in  cool  place.  When  nearly  cold  beat 
until  it  gets  hard  and  very  dry.  To  make  in  any  desired  shape 
heat  by  rubbing  it  in  the  hands,  and  mold. 

All  Kinds  of  Food  and  Vegetable  Choppers  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


SCHLUCKEBIER  HARDWARE  CO 

PETALUMA,  CAL 

Stoves,  Cooking    Utensils,    Farming    Tools 

Wagons,  Buggies  and  Everything 

in  the  Line  of  Hardware 

DROP      US     A     POSTAL     AND      GET      OUR      PRICES 
SCHLUCKEBIER  HARDWARE  CO. 


3Bire^]&£^§&  aiad  JLuamielhieoffii  Daslhes 


"Dinner  may  be  pleasant; 
So  may  social  tea; 
But  yet,  methinks  the  breakfast 
Is  best  of  all  the  three." 

—Anon. 

BAKED  EGGS-  Mrs.  Domin 

Two  cups  of  cold  chopped  ham,  two  tablespoons  crackeY 
crumbs,  moistened  with  water.  Put  in  baking  pan,  making 
round  holes  in  the  mixture;  break  into  each  hole  one  egg,  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
until  eggs  are  cooked,  and  serve  hot. 

CODFISH  BALLS— Mrs.  K. 

Two  cups  salt  codfish,  one  quart  raw  potatoes  (six  good  sized 
ones),  two  teaspoons  melted  butter,  two  eggs,  one  saltspoon 
pepper,  salt  if  needed.  Wash  fish  and  pick  apart  in  cold  water 
in  one-half  inch  pieces;  pare  raw  potatoes  and  cut  into  quarters, 
put  potatoes  and  codfish  into  boiling  water,  cook  twenty-five 
minutes,  or  until  they  are  soft;  drain  very  dry  and  shake  over 
the  stove;  mash  together  until  you  cannot  distinguish  one  from 
the  other;  beat  eggs  light,  mix  into  fish  with  pepper  and  butter; 
work  together  with  masher  until  light.  Have  fat  very  hot, 
make  mixture  into  small  balls  with  floured  hands,  and  cook  in 
wire  basket  until  a  rich  brown.  Drain  on  brown  paper  before 
serving. 

GERMAN  TOAST— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Take  stale  bread,  slice,  dip  in  sweet  milk  and  lay  in  baking 
pan.  Over  this  pour  four,  five  or  six  well  beaten  eggs,  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch.  Bake  a 
few  minutes  and  serve  hot 

EGG  TOAST    Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Slice  stale  bread  and  dip  in  sweet  milk;  now  dip  in  well  beat- 
en eggs  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard.     Serve  immediately. 

Gasoline,  Coal  Oil,  and  Gas  Stoves  at  MAILER   HARDWARE  CO. 


132 


HERCULES 
WHEAT    FLAKES 


FOK  BREAKFAST 


A  PERFECT  FOOD 


HATTl£,    McftlNNEY    CgL    TITUS 

New  and  Second  Hand 

furniture:,    carpets,    matting 
and   linoleum 

Steam    Carpet    Beating    AfVorKs    in    Connection 

AGENTS   FOR  WHITE   SEWING   MACHINES 

304  Fourth  St.    Phone  Red  1641    Santa  Rosa,  Cal. 

THE    RED     FRONT 

Now  located  in  our  new  quarters  with  a  select  line  of  ready-to-wear 
CLOTHES  FOR  WOMEN,  MILLINERY,  FANCY  AND  STAPLE  DRY 
GOODS.    EVERYTHING  MEN  and  BOYS  WEAR  from  crown  to  sole. 

THE     PLACE    TO    SHOP 

New  Overton  Block,  S.  E.  Cor.  4th  and  B  Sts.  SANTA    ROSA,    CAL. 


133 
EGGS  AND  TOMATOES  SPANISH— M.  R.  R. 

(Three  Persons) 

Three  tomatoes,  three  bell  peppers,  six  eggs,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  little  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and  a  little  sugar.  Take 
three  firm  ripe  tomatoes,  three  mild  bell  peppers;  peel  tomatoes 
and  slice,  also  slice  peppers.  Put  in  hot  frying  pans,  the  but- 
ter, add  tomatoes  and  peppers,  also  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
sugar.  When  tender,  break  over  this  six  eggs  do  not  break 
the  yolks.     Season  with  a  dash  of  Worcestershire. 

SAUTED  CHICKEN  a  La  REGENCE— Miss  Annie  Laughin 

Joint  young  chicken,  roll  in  flour  and  fry.  Remove  from  fat 
when  done.  Stir  in  two  tablespoons  flour  and  dilute  with  one- 
half  pint  stock  made  from  trimmings  of  chicken  or  beef,  one 
gill  mushroom  juice  and  one  gill  cream.  When  all  is  smooth 
boil  up  and  add  half  can  of  chopped  mushrooms  and  pour  over 
the  fried  chicken.     This  is  a  most  delectable  dish. 

MINCED  TURKEY  WITH  POACHED  EGGS     Mrs.  Dornin 

Take  all  small  pieces  of  cold  turkey,  the  quantity  you  wish, 
add  to  it  some  celery  chopped  v$ry  fine,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Put  a  little  butter  in  hot  frying  pan,  put  above  mixture 
in  and  moisten  with  turkey  gravy  or  soup  stock.  Drop  as  many 
eggs  as  needed  in  boiling  water,  when  done  have  the  meat  ar- 
ranged on  pieces  of  buttered  toast.  Spread  meat  away  from 
center  and  put  one  egg  in  place  on  the  toast.  Cold  lamb,  chick- 
en, or  other  meats  are  good  fixed  this  way. 

CHEESE  FONDU— Mrs.  Wilkinson 

One-half  cup  rich  cheese  grated,  one-half  tablespoon  butter, 
one  cup  hot  mi!k,  one  egg,  one  saltspoon  salt,  one-half  salt- 
spoon  pepper,  one  cup  soft  bread  crumbs.  Melt  the  cheese  and 
butter  in  the  hot  milk,  add  the  egg  well  beaten,  the  seasoning 
and  crumbs.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  brown. 

POT  ROAST  OF  LIVER- Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Cut  two  in  squares  of  liver  and  drop  into  an  iron  kettle  that 
has  had  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  drippings  in  it  and  made 
very  hot.  Stir  the  liver  often  and  when  browned  pour  in  two 
pints  water,  salt,  pepper  and  an  onion.  Cover  and  simmer  un- 
til done.     Thicken  gravy  with  cracker  crumbs. 

Look  Wise— Buy  an  Up-to-Date  Food  Chopper.  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO 


134 

FULLER'S    PAINTS 

.Art  Decorative   Enamels 

Designed  for  the  Artistic  Enameling  of  countless  household  articles 
guch  as  Tables,  Chairs,  Wickerware,  Furniture,  etc.  These  enamels  are 
unexcelled  for  beauty  of  finish  and  wearing  qualities.  All  of  the  colors  dry 
quickly  and  with  a  brilliant  gloss. 

WOODWORK  in  any  room  that  has  become  dingy  or  defaced  with  age 
can  be  handsomely  and  artistically  finished  by  applying  ART  DECORA- 
TIVE ENAMEL.  The  Enamel  dries  with  such  a  hard  and  durable  lustre 
that  the  surface,  if  it  becomes  soiled,  can  be  washed  innumerable  times 
without  discoloring  or  crumbling. 

At  a  trifling  expense  a  worn  and  soiled  WICKER  CHAIR  can  be  im- 
proved in  appearance  and  not  only  made  useful  but  very  attractive. 

ART  DECORATIVE  ENAMEL  will  impart  a  lustrous  and  handsome 
finish  to  an  IRON  BEDSTEAD  that  has  become  battered  or  rusty  looking 
and  make  it  modern  and  presentable. 

ART  DECORATIVE  ENAMELS  are  put  up  in  pints,  half  pints,  gills. 

5. Gallon  Can,  per  gal.    $2.25  I  Half  -Gallon  Can  $1.35  I  Pint  Can  40c 

I  -Gallon  Can  $2.50  I  Quart  Can  75c  I  Half  Pint  Can  25c 

Rubber  Cement  Floor  Paint 

Is  made  expressly  for  painting  interior  floors.  It  is  ready  for  use, 
works  easily,  dries  hard  and  with  a  high  gloss  finish  and  is  very  durable. 
It  may  be  washed  as  often  as  desired  without  injuring  the  gloss  or  dura- 
bility. We  recommend  it  as  being  superior  to  all  other  Floor  Paints. 
One-half  gallon  is  sufficient  for  a  large  sized  room.  Explicit  directions 
for  use  are  on  every  package. 


UNITED  STATES  DEPOSITARY 

The  Santa  Rosa  National  Bank 

SANTA    ROSA,  CALIFORNIA 

CAPITAL  $160,000.  SURPLUS  and  UNDIVIDED  PROFITS  $60,000 

WE     SOLICIT    YOUR     PATRONAGE 

OFFICERS 

J.  H.  BRUSH President 

R.  F.  CRAWFORD Vice-President 

F.  A.  BRUSH Cashier 

C.  B.  WINGATE Assistant  Cashier 

W.  C.  GRANT Assistant  Cashier 

DIRECTORS 

J.  H,  BRUSH  J.  E.  CLARK 

R.  F.  CRAWFORD  C.  H.  THOMPSON 

F.  A.  BRUSH  D.  P.  ANDERSON 

JOHN  STRONG 


135 
LUNCH  DISH- Mrs.  Porcher 

One  cup  chopped  cold  beef  or  chicken  mixed  with  one  and 
one-half  cups  cold  rice,  two  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  little 
gravy,  small  piece  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  water  enough  to 
moisten  it.  Put  in  frying  pan  and  stir  with  fork  until  light, 
and  then  brown. 

CHICKEN  AU  SUPREME— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Cut  the  chicken  as  for  frying;  salt,  pepper  and  flour  each  piece 
as  it  is  laid  in  the  spider  with  hot  lard  and  butter,  fry  to  a  light 
brown,  dredge  in  two  tablespoons  flour,  cover  with  hot  water, 
simmer  slowly  until  tender.  Lift  out  chicken  and  finish  the 
sauce  with  seasoning  to  taste  and  half  pint  minced  mushrooms. 
Place  chicken  in  deep  dish  and  pour  on  sauce. 

GARDEN  PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  MEAT— Mrs.  Bryant 

Take  two  cups  of  cold  beef,  mutton,  chicken  or  veal  and  chop 
fine.  Mix  with  equal  amount  rice  (boiled)  or  bread  crumbs, 
one  chopped  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Remove  tops  and  seeds 
from  six  bell  peppers,  then  scald  and  wash.  Fill  with  meat 
mixture  and  stand  in  baking  pan,  add  one-half  cup  of  soup 
stock  or  water,  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  bake  in  slow  oven 
one  hour,  basting  often. 

HAMBURG  LOAF— Mrs.  R.  H.  Thomson 

Two  pounds  of  Hamburg  steak,  one  quart  of  bread  crumbs, 
one  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put 
all  in  a  mixing  bowl  and  pour  into  it  boiling  water,  stirring  un- 
til it  is  well  mixed  and  quite  moist.  Put  into  a  long  narrow  bak- 
ing pan  and  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour;  if  the  loaf  is  thick 
give  it  fifteen  minutes  more. 

STUFFED  EGGS— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Boil  fresh  eggs  about  fifteen  minutes,  when  cold  remove  shell, 
cut  in  halves.  Now  mash  yolk  with  silver  fork,  add  salt,  pep- 
per, celery  salt,  and  salad  dressing.  Cream  well  and  fill  white 
cups. 

BAKED  HARD  BOILED  EGGS- Mrs.  Bryant 

Six  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  thin  slices.  Place  in  a  baking  dish 
with  alternate  layers  of  grated  cheese,  sprinkled  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Cover  the  top  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  dotted 
with  butter  and  bake  fifteen  minutes;  brown  well  and  serve  hot. 

LISK  Four-Coated  Enamel  Cooking  Utensils  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO 


136 
CHICKEN  PIE -Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Two  nice  tender  chickens,  one  sweetbread,  two  dozen  raw 
oysters  and  one  onion.  Stew  the  chickens  with  the  onion— the 
latter  must  be  taken  out  whole.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  thicken  with  flour  and  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  cream, 
then  set  aside  to  cool.  Stew  the  sweetbread,  and  when  cold, 
cut  in  thin  slices.  Make  a  nice  puff  paste,  line  your  dish  and 
place  a  cup  in  center.  Next  lay  the  chicken  and  sweetbread  in 
the  dish  and  strew  oysters  evenly  over  them.  Cover  with  upper 
crust,  make  a  small  hole  in  the  center,  and  bake. 

SPANISH  STEW -Miss  S.  E.  Polhemus 

Take  a  good  sized  round  steak,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  fry 
with  an  onion  until  nicely  browned.  Dredge  with  flour  and 
cover  with  water.  Add  one  quart  of  ripe  tomatoes,  salt,  small 
red  peppers  to  suit  the  taste.  Cook  this  until  meat  is  thoroughly 
done  at  least  two  hours. 

LANCASHIRE  PIE— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Take  cold  meat,  beef,  veal  or  mutton,  chop  fine  and  season  as 
for  hash.  Take  hot  mashed  potatoes  ready  for  table.  Place 
layer  of  meat,  then  potatoes,  meat,  then  potatoes.  Potatoes 
come  last.  Smooth  with  knife  and  place  in  oven.  Bake  until 
brown  and  serve  in  same  dish. 

A  LUNCH  DISH- -Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Nearly  fill  a  pudding  dish  with  cooked  macaroni.  Make  a 
hole  in  center  and  put  in  chopped  cold  roast,  mutton  or  steak 
which  has  been  seasoned.  Pour  over  all  the  juice  of  cooked  to- 
matoes. Cover  whole  with  bread  crumbs,  over  which  pour 
gravy  or  melted  butter. 

CORN  OYSTERS— Mrs.  Dwindle 

Grate  six  ears  of  corn;  mix  with  the  grated  corn  one  table- 
spoon of  flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  all 
well  together,  then  fry  in  the  shape  of  oysters  in  fresh  lard  or 
butter. 

MEAT  SCALLOP— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Cracker  crumbs,  macaroni,  cold  meat,  gravy  or  soup  stock. 
Boil  macaroni  until  soft.  Take  pudding  dish,  cover  bottom  first 
with  cracker  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  meat  cut  fine  and  seasoned 


137 

with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  a  layer  of  macaroni,  bits  of  butter, 
then  a  layer  of  crumbs,  meat,  etc.,  until  dish  is  filled,  but 
crumbs  last.  Pour  over  all  gravy;  milk  would  do  if  no  gravy. 
Bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

MEAT  AND  TOMATO  (Scalloped) 

Made  the  same  as  meat  scallop,  ripe  tomatoes  taking  the  place 
of  macaroni.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  add  no 
gravy  or  milk.  Last  layer  is  to  be  tomatoes  and  bread  crumbs 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

CURRIED  EGGS— Mrs.  Bryant 

Mix  one  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  or  wheat  flour  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  curry  powder  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk. 
Pour  this  into  one  pint  boiling  milk,  stirring  until  it  thickens. 
Break  an  egg  carefully  in  a  saucer,  slip  it  into  the  boiling  liquid 
and  let  it  poach  until  it  sets  (about  two  minutes.)  Have  ready 
squares  of  buttered  toast,  and  as  the  eggs  are  cooked,  lift  them 
out  and  lay  one  on  each.  When  all  done  pour  remaining  liquid 
around  them. 

MEAT  POT  PIE 

Cut  meat  in  small  pieces,  stew  in  water  in  which  is  cup  of 
milk.  When  tender  add  one  egg  and  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper.     Crust  as  for  pie. 

POTATOES  a  La  DUCHESSE 

Mold  out  potatoes  into  cakes  size  of  biscuits.  Glaze  with 
beaten  egg  and  bake  to  light  brown. 

OYSTER  ON  TOAST— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Chop  fine  fifteen  oysters,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little 
nutmeg,  one  gill  cream,  one  tablespoon  flour.  Place  on  buttered 
toast. 

CODFISH   BROILED— Mrs.  Dornin 

Cut  pieces  of  white  codfish  in  halves  and  soak  over  night. 
Change  water  two  or  three  times  in  evening  and  rinse  in  clear 
water  in  morning.  Dry  on  cloth,  brush  a  little  butter  over  each 
piece  and  broil.     Serve  with  lemon  juice. 

PRESSED   HAM 

Chop  fine  cold  boiled  ham,  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  hot  soup 
stock  and  melted  butter;  put  in  mold  and  press.  When  cold 
turn  out  and  slice. 

China  Lac-Will  Make  Old  Chairs  Look  New— MAILER   HARDWARE  CO. 


138 


HATS 

SUITS 
TAILORING 

FANCY  VESTS 

OVERCOATS 
SHIRTS 

ETC. 
HODGSON-HENDERSON    CO. 

51V  FOURTH  STREET.  SANTA.  ROSA 

CLEVELAND'S 


Superior   Baking    Powder 


PURE  and  SURE 


139 
HAM  CROQUETTES-Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Chop  fine  cold  cooked  ham,  one  egg  to  each  person.  Beat 
egg,  mix  with  chopped  meat,  make  into  balls  and  fry  in  butter. 

HASH  ON  TOAST -Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Chop  any  cold  meat,  season  and  cook  the  same  as  hash. 
Have  ready  bread  nicely  toasted  and  buttered.  Place  a  spoon- 
ful of  hash  on  each  slice,  set  in  oven  a  few  moments  and  send 
to  table  smoking  hot. 

CHICKEN  RICE  PIE— Mrs.  Porcher 

Line  a  crock  with  four  slices  raw  bacon;  around  sides  put 
cold  boiled  rice.  Fill  bottom  of  dish  with  boiled  chicken  and  six 
hard  boiled  eggs.  On  top  put  good  rich  crust.  Bake  one  hour 
and  a  half.     Serve  hot. 

EGGS  ON  TOAST  -Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Toast  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  persons.  Take  as  many  eggs. 
Separate  yolks  from  whites  and  do  not  break.  Beat  whites  to 
stiff  froth,  place  on  the  buttered  toast,  make  a  small  hole  and 
drop  on  yellow  and  place  in  oven  a  few  minutes. 

PAULINE'S  RICE  PAN  CAKES— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Three  cups  rice,  one-half  pint  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  milk  to  make  batter 
not  too  thin.     Serve  hot  with  maple  syrup. 

OMELET— Mrs.  Briggs 

Four  eggs,  salt  to  taste,  two  tablespoons  cream.  Beat  the 
yolks  alone  to  a  smooth  batter,  add  cream,  salt  and  pepper, 
lastly  the  well  beaten  whites.  Have  frying  pan  very  hot,  put 
in  a  tablespoon  of  butter  which  should  instantly  hiss.  Fellow 
it  quickly  with  the  mixture  and  do  not  stir  this  after  it  goes  in. 
Cook  over  a  hot  fire  and  as  the  egg  sets  loosen  it  frcm  the  edge 
of  the  pan  without  breaking,  turn  half  of  the  omelet  over  upon 
itself  before  turning  from  pan  upon  a  hot  dish.     Serve  hot. 

WAFFLES— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Beat  well  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  To  this  add  one  and  a 
quarter  cups  sweet  milk,  one  pint  flour,  one-half  teaspcon  salt, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder.     Sift  flour  and   add   the  liquid 

A  Word  to  the  Wise—Cooking  Utensils  at  MAILER   HARDWARE  CO. 


140 

gradually.  Lastly,  cut  and  fold  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Serve  with  syrup  made  as  follows:  One  cup  sugar,  one- 
quarter  cup  water,  when  thick  add  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
and  one  teaspoon  butter.    Do  not  boil  after  adding  lemon  juice. 

CORN  MEAL  WAFFLES- Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

One  quart  buttermilk,  three  egg  yolks  (well  beaten),  one  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  little  salt  and  corn 
meal  to  make  batter  a  little  thicker  than  for  pan  cakes. 

PIMENTO  SANDWICHES— Miss  S.  E.  Polhemus 

Drain  pimentoes,  chop  or  grind  them,  then  add  chopped  hard 
boiled  eggs  and  olives.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
spread. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN— Mrs.  W.  P.  Slusser 

Select  two  chickens  about  a  year  old,  clean,  cut  up  well,  and 
stew  in  just  enough  water  to  cover.  When  nearly  cooked, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stew  down  until  the  water  is 
nearly  all  boiled  out  and  the  meat  drops  easily  from  the  bones. 
Remove  the  bones  and  gristle,  chop  the  meat  rather  coarsely, 
then  put  back  into  the  stew  kettle  with  broth  (first  skimming 
off  all  fat),  and  let  it  heat  again.  Turn  it  into  an  oblong  bread- 
pan,  drop  in  along  center  four  hard  boiled  eggs.  Place  a  weight 
on  the  top.  This  will  turn  out  like  jelly  and  may  be  sliced. 
Success  depends  upon  not  having  too  much  water,  and  see  that 
the  chickens  are  not  too  young. 

COLD  COOKED  MEAT  FRIED  IN  BATTER-  Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

Tender,  cold  cooked  meat  of  any  kind  may  be  trimmed  into 
pieces  of  uniform  shape  and  size,  dipped  in  villeroi  sauce  (to  a 
cup  white  or  brown  sauce  made  in  the  usual  manner  add,  after 
removing  from  the  fire,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  one- 
fourth  cup  of  cream  or  milk;  cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  the  sauce  is  quite  stiff),  and  when  cold,  egg  and 
bread  crumbed  and  fried  in  deep  fat.  Fritter  batter  may  take 
the  place  of  the  sauce  and  egg  and  bread  crumbing.  Cold  roast 
turkey  and  chicken  are  excellent  prepared  after  this  recipe. 

HARICOT  OR  RAGOUT  OF  MUTTON  (Uncooked  Meat) 

Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

Three  pounds  of  mutton  (neck  or  breast) ,  one-quarter  cup 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  clove  of  garlic,  one  onion, 

Toasters,  Etc.  for  Gas  Stoves  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


141 

one  sprig  of  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  potatoes,  salt,  four 
sprigs  of  parsley.  Cut  the  mutton  in  pieces  two  inches  long 
and  one  inch  wide,  and  saute  in  the  butter  until  well  browned, 
then  stir  in  the  flour,  and  when  blended  with  the  butter  add 
cold  water  to  cover;  add  also  the  seasonings,  the  onion  whole, 
and  the  garlic  chopped  fine.  Let  simmer  until  nearly  tender, 
stirring  occasionally;  add  the  potatoes  pared  and  quartered 
small,  having  about  as  many  pieces  of  potato  as  of  meat,  and 
let  simmer  until  the  potatoes  are  tender.  Serve  the  pieces  of 
meat  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  the  potatoes  around,  and  the 
liquid,  from  which  the  fat  has  been  removed,  over  the  whole. 
Prepare  other  meats,  as  veal,  chicken,  and  rabbit,  in  the  same 
manner, 

EGGS  BAKED  IN  CHEESE  SAUCE— Mrs.  Chas.  Roat 

One  teaspoon  melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  flour.  Let  these 
brown  and  add  one  cup  milk  slowly  to  make  smooth  sauce. 
Add  four  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  stir  well,  and  when  thor- 
oughly hot  put  into  baking  dish  that  can  go  on  table.  Drop  in 
eggs  as  if  for  poaching,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  eggs  are  set. 

CROQUETTES— Miss  E.  Granger 

One  cup  of  cold  cooked  meat  or  fowl,  one  cup  of  dry  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  one  egg,  one  small  onion  chopped  fine,  one 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  sage  or 
other  preferred  herb.  Chop  or  grind  the  meat,  and  mix  all  the 
ingredients  with  enough  milk  to  enable  the  mixture  to  be  mold- 
ed into  soft  flat  cakes.  Fry  brown.  If  a  little  cooked  fat  salt 
pork  or  ham  can  be  added,  the  butter  may  be  omitted.  The 
quantities  may  be  somewhat  varied,  and  the  addition  of  cold 
cooked  vegetables  will  vary  the  flavor. 

RICE  SPANISH- Mrs.  Chas.  Roat 

Put  one-half  cup  rice  into  a  pan  with  one  heaping  tablespoon 
lard,  and  let  boil  until  all  the  kernels  turn  white.  Add  one 
quart  tomatoes,  one  green  pepper,  one  large  onion  browned  in 
butter,  salt  to  taste.     Add  more  pepper  if  not  hot  enough. 

OYSTERS  AND  MACARONI-Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

One  pint  of  oysters,  three-quarters  cup  of  macaroni  broken 
into  inch  pieces,  three-quarters  cup  grated  cheese,  salt  and 
paprika,  one-half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  one-fourth  cup  butter, 
one-fourth  cup  melted  butter.  Cook  the  macaroni  until  tender; 
drain  and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a 


142 

buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  oysters  and  sprinkle  with 
cheese,  salt,  and  paprika;  add  half  the  butter  in  bits,  and  cover 
with  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then  with  oysters  and  seasoning. 
Cover  the  top  with  the  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  the  melted 
butter.   Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  at  once. 

OYSTERS  COOKED  WITH  RICE-  Mrs.  Chas.  Roat 

Two  cups  of  rice  cooked  in  the  juice  of  one  quart  of  oysters, 
salt,  and  enough  water  to  cook  tender.  Add  one-half  cup  but- 
ter and  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Remove  from  fire  and  when 
partly  cool  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Turn  into 
buttered  baking  dish,  smooth  over  the  top,  and  with  the  back 
of  the  spoon  make  dents  in  the  top,  put  one  oyster  in  each  and 
close  together.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  one-half  cup  cracker 
crumbs,  and  small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  quickly  and  serve  hot. 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE -Janet  Mackenzie  Hill 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  one  pint 
of  milk  or  chicken  stock  or  part  of  each,  one-half  cup  of  fine 
bread  crumbs,  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  fine  chopped  chicken 
(cold) ,  salt  and  paprika,  onion  juice,  parsley,  celery-salt.  Make 
a  sauce  of  the  first  three  ingredients;  add  the  bread  crumbs, 
the  chicken  (cooked  and  chopped  very  fine) ,  the  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  the  seasonings;  and  lastly  fold  in  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  until  dry.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes,  and  serve  promptly  from  the  baking  dish. 

DEVILLED  HAM  ROLLS— Mrs.  Chas.  Roat 

Make  light  rich  paste,  roll  thin,  cut  in  four-inch  squares. 
Spread  each  square  with  devilled  ham,  moisten  edges  with  cold 
water  and  roll,  pressing  edges  well  together.  Brush  with  white 
of  egg  and  bake. 

RICE  SAVORY— Miss  Edith  Granger 

After  boiling  the  rice  tender  in  salted  water,  press  it  through 
a  potato  ricer.  Mix  in  a  well  beaten  egg  and  a  small  cup  of  rich 
milk.  Season  with  salt  and  a  trifle  of  white  pepper,  and  bring 
to  a  boil. 

TRIPE  SPANISH- Mrs.  W.  C.  Fowler 

Soak  tripe  in  cold  water  about  ten  minutes.  Cut  into  small 
pieces  and  put  into  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it.     Boil  one 

Asbestos  Sad  Irons  at  MAILER  HARDWARE  CO. 


143 

hour  or  longer.  Fry  one  large  onion  and  two  Chili  peppers  until 
well  done,  add  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  salt,  a  few  sparing  dashes 
of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one-quarter 
cup  vinegar.  Let  boil  and  add  to  tripe  after  water  has  been 
poured  off.     Boil  a  few  minutes. 

GULOSCH— Mrs.  Parker  Maddux 

Put  some  drippings  or  lard  in  a  pot  or  other  rather  deep 
utensil,  and  fry  with  an  onion  cut  up  fine.  Cut  up  lean  beef  in 
pieces  the  size  of  an  egg,  rub  in  flour,  flavor  with  white  pepper 
and  salt.  Fry  a  little,  then  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and 
let  cook  three  hours  in  its  own  juices;  then  put  in  half  a  cup  of 
sour  cream,  which  makes  a  thick  rich  gravy. 

DEVILLED  EGGS— Mrs.  W.  C.  Fowler 

Prepare  a  dressing  of  one-half  cup  rich  thick  cream  beaten 
until  it  begins  to  swell,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 
mustard,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  salt,  and  one-fourth  cup  vinegar 
added  last  and  slowly.  Have  as  many  eggs  as  desired  hard 
boiled  and  cold.  Remove  shells  and  cut  in  halves,  lengthwise, 
and  remove  hard  yolks.  Mash  yolks  well  with  a  fork  and  add 
to  them  enough  or  all  of  the  dressing  to  make  a  moist  filling  for 
the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Then  fill  them  and  round  up  the  whites 
with  the  prepared  yolks. 


FOR  THE  SHVAILgDpS  TRAY 

"Simple  diet  is  best,  for  many  dishes  bring  many  diseases, 
and  rich  sauces  are  worse  than  even  heaping  several  meats 
upon  each  other."— Pliny. 

NOURISHING  DRINK- Miss  Ella  Wood 
One  teaspoon  dry  coffee  in  one   cup   milk  brought  to  a  boil. 
Have  ready  a  well  beaten  egg,  add  strained  milk  to  the  egg-, 
sweeten  if  desired.   . 

CHEESE  STRAWS -Miss  Annie  Laughlin 
Take  a  pint  of  flour  and  one-half  pint  grated  cheese.     Mix 
them  and  make  a  paste  with  lard  as  you  do  for  pies.     Roll  out 
in  a  thick  sheet,  cut  in  strips  half  an  inch  broad  and  five  or  six 
inches  long,  bake  a  light  brown. 

BEEF  BROTH     Mrs.  Baldwin 

Trim  off  all  the  fat  from  one  pound  round  steak,  add  three 
coffee  cups  cold  water,  also  salt  and  pepper  and  let  simmer 
about  one-half  hour  or  until  there  is  a  pint  of  broth.  Strain 
through  fine  sieve  and  serve  hot. 

EXTRACT  OF  BEEF  BLOOD— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Catch  in  bowl  warm  beef  blood  and  let  it  stand  until  it  clots, 
which  will  not  be  long.  Now  take  out  and  lay  on  a  clean  and 
smooth  board  and  cut  in  narrow  strips,  tilt  board  and  stand  in 
hot  sun.  In  a  short  time  all  watery  substance  will  have  run 
away  and  that  left  is  dry  and  will  crumble.  It  must  crumble 
or  it  is  not  ready,  rub  in  palm  of  hand  until  a  fine  powder,  sift 
through  fine  wire  sieve,  bottle  and  it  will  keep  for  years.  This 
can  be  taken  in  plain  soup  or  dry  as  most  acceptable  to  patient; 
the  strength  gained  is  wonderful.  When  cutting  to  dry,  cut  in 
as  narrow  strips  as  possible.  To  be  given  to  any  person  with 
little  strength  or  vitality. 

GRAPE  JUICE -Mrs.  Wm.  Woolsey 

Take  Zinfandel  grapes  and  run  through  a  cider  mill.  Put  juice 
in  earthen  jars  where  it  stands  over  night.  Next  morning  pour 
into  preserving  kettle  only  what  looks  clear,  rejecting  sediment, 
which  is  the  sugar  that  ferments.  Put  kettle  on  fire  and  bring 
juice  to  a  good  boiling  point  only.  Skim  if  needful.  Bottle 
while  hot,  straining  through  a  thin  cloth.  Seal  bottles  and  keep 
in  a  dark  place. 


146 


THE 


Means  sound  sleep,  good  digestion,  cool  judgment,  and  manly  in- 
dependence. The  most  healthful  thing  I  know  of  is  a  Savings  Bank 
Account.  There  are  no  microbes  in  it  to  steal  away  your  peace 
of  mind.      It  is  a  guarantee  of  good  behavior. —Elbert  Hubbard. 

Don't  be  backward  about  beginning  small.  Most  big  accounts  started  small. 
Three  and  one  half  per  cent  compound  interest  will  help  you.  This  bank  is  a 
strictly  savings  bank  and  transacts  a  savings  business  only.  Receives  deposits  of 

ONE  DOLLAR 

Thi  Union  Trust- Savings  Ianic 

Pays  Dividends  on  All  Deposits,  Compounded  Semi- Annually 
F 0  U  R  T  H  5  T .  A  N  D  H I N  T  0 N  A VI,        -        -        SANTA  ROSA,  CAL 


H.     H.     MOKE 


FUNERAL  DIRECTOR 


(iUADUATE    LADY    KMDALMKR,    ASSISTANT 


IIS  Fourth  Street         Santa  Rosa,  Cal 

PHONE    MAIN'    21 


147 
BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  berries  and  drain;  place  in  double 
boiler  and  let  them  steam,  the  water  boiling  well  about  them 
for  good  thirty  minutes.  Turn  them  into  a  jelly  bag  and  hang 
up  to  drain;  do  not  squeeze  the  bag.  To  one  pint  of  juice  put 
one-half  pound  sugar  and  boil  five  minutes.  When  cold  add  half 
as  much  brandy  as  juice.     Bottle  and  cork  tight. 

MUTTON  TOAST— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Cut  in  pieces  one  pound  of  mutton,  the  bony  part  is  the  best, 
and  put  on  the  stove  early,  in  one  quart  of  cold  water.  Cook 
slowly.  When  the  meat  is  tender  strain  the  broth  through  a 
sieve  and  set  away  to  cool.  After  removing  the  grease  that  has 
risen  to  the  top,  let  the  broth  come  to  boiling,  and  add  flour 
thickening,  with  a  little  cream  or  butter.  Meanwhile  toast 
slices  of  white  or  brown  bread,  and  dip  in  hot  water  to  soften. 
Pour  the  stew  over  the  bread,  adding  the  pieces  of  mutton. 

OAT  MEAL  BLANC  MANGE— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Stir  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  fine  oat  meal  into  a  little  cold 
water  and  then  stir  in  a  quart  of  boiling  milk;  boil  a  few  min- 
utes, salt,  turn  into  a  mold.  When  cold  eat  with  jelly  and  cream. 

PURE  BEEF  JUICE— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Take  good  juicy  round  steak,  remove  all  fat.  Place  in  hat 
skillet,  sear  both  sides  of  meat,  gash  pieces  with  knife,  place 
on  earthen  plate,  cover  with  another  plate  and  set  in  hot  oven. 
Let  remain  until  all  juice  leaves  meat.  One  tablespoon  of  this 
juice  is  equivalent  to  one  cup  of  broth. 

REFRESHING  DRINK— Miss  Annie  Laughlin 

Cover  raspberries  with  vinegar  and  soak  over  night.  Drain 
off  or  squeeze  out  the  juice,  to  every  pint  of  which  add  one 
pound  of  sugar.  Let  it  simmer  about  fifteen  minutes;  when 
cool  bottle,  and  when  used  as  a  drink  put  in  as  much  of  it  to  a 
glass  of  water  as  is  palatable  to  the  invalid. 

Washing   Made    a    Pleasure  — HORTON    Washing  Machine   at    MAILER'S 


COOBUBJG  DIRKED  FRUITS 


To  make  a  most  delicious  conserve  of  either  apples,  apricots, 
pears,  peaches,  figs  or  prunes,  proceed  as  follows:  Pick  over  the 
fruit  and  wash  it  thoroughly  but  quickly.  Put  it  in  a  dish, 
earthen  is  preferable,  at  about  noontime,  and  covering  it  gen- 
erously with  water,  allow  it  to  soak  during  that  afternoon  and 
night.  In  the  morning  take  the  fruit  carefully  out  into  a  cook- 
ing utensil — a  graniteware  kettle  or  saucepan  or  an  earthen 
crock — and  pour  over  it,  being  careful  not  to  disturb  the  sedi- 
ment at  the  bottom,  the  water  in  which  it  was  soaked;  then 
cover  the  dish  tightly  and  set  it  either  on  the  back  of  the  range 
or  in  a  moderate  oven,  where  it  will  quietly  simmer,  and  let  it 
remain  there  for  eight  or  ten  hours. 

If  you  have  an  unreasoning  sweet  tooth,  and  must  spoil  things 
with  sugar,  add  that  article  not  more  than  twenty  minutes  be- 
fore removing  the  cooked  fruit  from  the  range,  and  add  it  spar- 
ingly, since,  by  this  method  of  cooking,  all  the  natural  flavor 
and  saccharine  quality  of  the  fruits  are  preserved,  and  nearly 
everyone  who  is  privileged  to  taste  them  thus  prepared  readily 
concedes  that  they  are  quite  "sufficient  unto  themselves." 

Prunes  and  dried  grapes  become  simply  "idealized"  under 
this  treatment-  plump,  smooth,  juicy  and  generally  delicious, 
and  the  sliced  or  quartered  fruits  rival  the  daintiest  and  richest 
of  preserves  in  their  amber-hued  translucency,  as  well  as  in 
flavor. 

Verily,  if  the  cooks  and  housewives  would  add  to  their  little 
bills  of  fares  the  dried  fruits  of  California,  cooked  after  the 
fashion  herein  prescribed,  the  cry  for  "more"  would  be  so  loud 
and  so  unanimous  that  all  the  State's  broad  orchards  would  be 
quite  inadequate  to  supply  the  demand  of  even  the  home  market. 

GEO.  D.  DORNIN 


(SELECTED) 

1  quart  of  Sifted  Flour  (well  heaped) 1  pound 

1      "         Unsifted  Flour 1  pound,  1  ounce 

3  coffee  cups  Sifted  Flour  (level) 1  pound 

4  tea  cups  "  "  " 1       " 

1  pint  Soft  Butter  (well  packed) 1 

2  teacups        "           "          "       1  " 

V/s  pints         powdered  sugar 1  " 

2  coffee  cups                      "      (level)  1  " 

2%  teacups            "            "          "       1  " 

1  pint  Granulated  Sugar  (heaped) 14  ounces 

V/2  coffee  cups  "       (level) 1  pound 

2teacups  "  "  "      1 

1  pint  Best  Brown  Sugar  13  ounces 

1%  coffee  cups     "  "       (level)  1  pound 

214  teacups         "         "  "  "       1      " 

2  tablespoons  (well  rounded)  Powdered  Sugar  or  Flour.. 1  ounce 

1  "  "  "  Soft  Butter 1      " 

3  Sweet  Chocolate  grated 1      " 

2  teaspoons  (heaping)  Flour,  Sugar  or  Meal  equal  1  heaping 

tablespoon. 

ILaqtMadls 

1  pint  contains 16  fluid  ounces  (4  gills) 

1  teacupful  equals 8  fluid  ounces  (2  gills) 

4  teaspoonfuls  equal 1  tablespoonful 

2  teaspoonfuls  equal 1  dessertspoonful 

4  teacupf uls  equal 1  quart 

A  common  sized  tumbler  holds  about  one-half  pint 


To  Our  Readers: 

We  would  call  attention  to  the 
advertisements  that  appear  on  these 
pages.  Let  us  show  these  firms 
our  appreciation  by  giving  them, 
in  turn,  our  patronage. 


AUG  "IS   1908 


V 


P.    BBRKA 


DEALER     IN 


LUMBER 


AND 


1«1IJ)IN'G      MATERIALS 


TELEPHONE     MAIN     41 


COR.   8TH     AND     WILSON     STS..  SANTA     ROSA,    CAL 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


i  iiiii  mil  in  i 
0  014  485  426  3  • 


