m 


^, 


aN9ioO-(lo.\ls^ 


m 


If-/' 


fi 


X: 


h-" 


c  y  I  ■Jf 


G-ivEN   By 


j  M^VT    ^       ^  OtUA'^AJ^/^^^ 


1 


\ 


RECIPES 


USED  IN  THE 


Cooking  Schools, 


U.  S.  ARMY. 


\ 


WASHINGTON : 

GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE. 

1906. 


erty  of  the  United  States  Governmpi^I 
RKCIPKS 


USED  IN  THE 


Cooking  Schools, 


U.  S.  ARMY. 


; 


WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE. 

1906. 


.  ^.^Jb^M^V    ^V      N)^UA.'V-^vtvw\^ 


^' 


W-«,.c^. 


•  •  t      »-  ,    c 
•         «  c 


«    C      t   «  C     t 

•   t        c    c 
el     etc    c 


t  c  '  c  c 
c  e  c  c 
c  cc    » 


CONTEXTS. 


Page. 

Title  page .    .-.  1 

RECIPES. 

Soups: 

Bean 7 

Beef 7 

Bouillon _ 7 

Pea 7 

Potato 8 

Rice 8 

Spanish 8 

Tomato,  cream 8 

Tomato  and  corn 8 

Vegetable 9 

Fish  and  Oysters: 

Codfish  balls 9 

Salmon,  boiled 9 

Salmon,  creamed,  on  toast  with  egg  sauce 10 

Salmon  croquettes 10 

Oyster  potpie 10 

Sauces: 

Army 11 

Army  chocolate 11 

Cream 11 

Egg 11 

Spanish . .  11 

Tomato,  for  baked  beans 13 

Tomato,  cream 12 

White 12 

Gravies: 

Browned  flour  for 12 

Burnt  sugar 12 

Cream 12 

(3) 


Meats:  Pago. 

Bacon  and  Pork — 

Bacon 13 

Bacon  and  liver  _ . . 13 

Boston  baked  pork  and  beans 13 

Beef- 
Ala  mode 13 

Boiled 14 

Boiled  (corned)  and  cabbage 14 

Croquettes  ...... 14 

Fritters 14 

Hash 15 

Hearts  stuffed  with  bread  dressing 15 

Loaf 15 

Roast 15 

Steak,  broiled 16 

Steak  and  onions  ._ .    16 

Stewed 16 

Stew  with  dumplings 17 

Chili  con  carne 17 

Crepinettes  de  veau 17 

Hamburger  steak — .  16 

Mutton  potpie . 18 

Pot  roast 18 

Vegetables: 

Baked  beans 18 

Potatoes — 

Baked  18 

Baked,  swe^t,  and  apples -  -  -  19 

Balls 19 

Boiled 19 

Creamed 19 

Escalloped 21 

Fried 20 

German  fried . . .   20 

Lyonnaise 20 

Mashed. 20 

Salad 20 

Saratoga . 21 


Vegetables — Continued.  Page. 

Mush- 
Fried...   . 21 

Indian  corn  meal 22 

Macaroni  and  cheese 22 

Bread: 

Corn 22,23 

Dressing 23 

French  toast  or  fried 23 

Rye  and  graham 24 

Biscuits — 

English  tea 24 

For  twenty  men 24 

Cakes — 

Buckwheat . . 24 

New  England  corn  johnny 25 

White-bread  batter 25 

Muffins — 

Corn  meal 25 

Graham  gems 25 

Hot 26 

Puddings,  etc. 

Apple ._.. 26 

Apple  dumplings 26 

Apple  fritters 26 

Apple  roll . ...  26 

Apple  stewed  or  apple  sauce 27 

Cornstarch 27 

Cracker 27 

Custard 28 

Custard  bread 28 

English  plum 28 

Fruit 28 

Peach... 29 

Peach  fritters 29 

Plum 29 

Rice 30 

Tapioca 30 


6 


Sauce:  Page. 

For  apple  fritters 30 

Brandy 31 

Desserts: 
Cakes — 

Ginger 31 

Griddle. 31 

Rice 33 

Ginger  snaps 31 

Ice  cream,  cheap    32 

Lemon  sherbet _ 32 

Orange  sherbet 33 

Pie- 
Apple 33 

Pumpkin 33 

Prunes,  stewed 34 

Coffee: 

Party. 34 

Soldier's 34 


RECIPES    USED    IN    THE    COOKING 
SCHOOL,  U.  S.  ARMY. 


SOUPS. 


Bean  soup  (for  20  men). 

Take  3  pounds  beans  and  soak  overnight  in  about 
2  quarts  of  water.  AVlien  ready  to  make  the  soup  add  2 
quarts  of  boiling  water  and  let  boil  for  about  2  hours, 
or  till  done.  Add  J  pound  fine  chopped  onions  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Strain  thru  a 
collander.  Put  on  the  stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil, 
then  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Beef  stock. 

Select  beef  bones  and  pieces  of  meat  not  used  for  any 
special  purpose,  place  in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  and 
stand  on  back  of  stove  and  let  simmer.  At  end  of 
about  6  hours  strain  into  another  vessel  and  it  is  then 
ready  for  use. 

Bouillon  soup  (for  20  men). 

Take  5  quarts  beef  stock,  put  on  stove  and  let  come 
to  boil;  add  1  onion,  chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  burnt  sugar  and  strain 
thru  fine  strainer  and  serve  "en  crotons." 

Pea  soup  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  quarts  peas,  3  quarts  of  water,  salt  and 
pepper,  1  can  evaporated  cream,  onions.  Boil  peas 
until  soft,  and  strain  thru  a  collander.     Slice  and  fry 


8 

2  or  3  onions  in  brown  grease  until  brown.  Add  cream, 
onions,  and  beef  stock  to  the  pea  soup.  Salt  and  pep- 
per to  tast^. 

E/ice  sou;. 

Take  4  pounds  rice,  5  gallons  beef  stock,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.     Boil  for  4  hours. 

Potato  soup  (for  20  men). 

Take  10  or  12  potatoes,  boil,  mash,  and  mix  them 
with  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  or  cream.  Have  a  well- 
seasoned  soup  stock  ready,  made  with  beef  and  veal 
bones  and  the  usual  vegetables.  Ham  bones  can  also 
be  used.  Slightly  thicken  it  while  boiling,  which  will 
prevent  the  potatoes  from  settling  to  the  bottom.  Mix 
4  quarts  of  this  stock  with  the  potato  cream,  strain  all, 
and  season  well;  add  a  sprinkling  of  parsle}''  and  keep- 
hot  without  boiling.     Cost  of  7  quarts,  40  cents. 

Spanish  soup  (for  20  men). 

Take  4  quarts  beef  stock,  1  can  tomatoes,  2  medium- 
sized  onions  chopped  fine,  2  or  3  chili  peppers  chopped 
fine,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper;  put  on  stove  and  let 
boil  or  simmer  for  about  1  hour.  Season  with  salt  to 
taste  and  keep  hot  till  served.  No  thickening  in  any 
soups.     Strain  this  soup  or  not  as  desired. 

Cream  tomato  soup  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  quarts  beef  stock,  2  cans  tomatoes,  2  ounces 
onions  chopped  fine,  2  ounces  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Let  boil  about  1  hour.  When  cooked  strain 
thru  a  collander.  Just  before  serving  add  ^  can  of 
cream;  then  serve. 


9 

Vegetable  soup. 

One-half  boiler ful  cabbage  (2  heads)  chopped;  po- 
tatoes, 3  pounds,  raw,  chopped;  3  pounds  chopped 
onions;  2  cans  tomatoes;  and  1  pound  rice.  Put  in 
with  beef  stock  and  cook  not  less  than  4  hours.  Thick- 
ening (flour),  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Corn  and  tomato  soup  (for  15  men). 

Take  1  quart  green  corn,  cut  off  the  cob;  1  quart 
tomatoes,  cut  small ;  1  pint  mixt  vegetables,  cut  small ; 
in  5  quarts  seasoned  beef  stock.  Boil  up  and  season  to 
taste.     Cost  of  T  quarts,  40  cents. 

FISH  AND  OYSTERS. 

Codfish  balls  (for  20  men). 

Take  3  pounds  codfish,  put  in  cold  water  and  soak 
overnight  before  being  used.  Put  in  boiler  the  codfish 
with  about  3  quarts  cold  water  and  let  boil  J  hour. 
Drain  the  water  from  the  codfish  and  pick  out  bones,  or 
meat  from  bones.  Run  it  thru  hash  machine.  Take 
5  pounds  cold  boiled  potatoes,  run  thru  hash  machine; 
add  pepper,  parsle}^,  and  seasoning.  Work  the  ingredi- 
ents all  well  together  and  roll  into  2-ounce  balls.  Make 
a  batter  of  2  eggs  and  a  little  milk.  Dip  the  balls  into 
the  batter,  then  into  cracker  dust,  and  fry  in  hot  boiling 
lard  till  nice  brown  color.     Serve  hot. 

Boiled  Salmon. 

Put  5  cans  salmon,  open,  in  pan  of  hot  water,  and  let 
remain  on  stove  till  heated  thru.  Make  a  cream  sauce 
of  3  quarts  beef  stock,  1  can  evaporated  cream,  salt  and 


'^ 


10 

pepper,  and  parsle}^  to  taste.  Put  on  stove  and  let 
come  to  a  boil.  Mix  ^  pound  white  flour  in  1  pint 
water  and  thicken  the  mixture.  Turn  the  salmon  out 
on  a  large  platter  and  pour  over  the  white  sauce  and 
serve  hot.     Can  either  be  served  on  toast  or  not. 

Creamed  salmon  on  toast  with  egg  sauce  (for  20 
men) . 

Make  cream  sauce,  adding  eggs.  Take  5  cans  sal- 
mon, remove  from  cans  and  put  in  vessel  with  about 
1  pint  beef  stock  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Make  an  egg 
sauce:  2  quarts  beef  stock,  1  quart  milk  (1  can  evap- 
orated cream  makes  ^  gallon  milk).  Thicken  with  J 
pound  flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  set  on  stove, 
let  come  to  a  boil  and  it  is  then  ready  for  use.  Egg 
sauce:  Add  4  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine;  toast 
some  stale  bread  2  or  3  inches  square,  lay  neatly  on 
a  dish.  Put  the  salmon  on  top  of  toast,  pour  sauce 
over,  then  serve.     Garnish  if  desired. 

Salmon  croquettes  (for  20  men). 

Take  4  cans  salmon.  4  pounds  cold  boiled  potatoes,  2 
eggs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Grind  thru  hash 
machine.  Roll  into  cakes  about  2  inches  in  diameter, 
like  biscuits.  Make  an  egg  batter  of  2  eggs  and  a  little 
milk.  Dip  each  salmon  ball  into  the  batter  and  then 
into  cracker  dust.  Fry  in  deep  hot  lard,  same  as  fish 
balls  or  doughnuts.     Serve  hot. 

Oyster  potpie  (for  20  men). 

Make  crust  as  follows :  Take  3  pounds  flour,  1  pound 
lard,  2  ounces  baking  powder,  2  ounces  salt,  and  water 
■enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.     This  does  for  any  kind 


11 

of  meat  pie.  Take  3  cans  oysters,  fresh  or  cove  oysters, 
1  quart  milk,  J  pound  butter,  i  bunch  parsley.  Put  on 
stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Thicken  with  i  pound 
flour,  mixt  in  ^  pint  cold  water.  Should  be  baked 
about  J  hour. 

SAUCES. 
Army  sauce. 

Take  2  quarts  beef  stock,  thicken  with  i  pound  mixt 
flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls 
burnt  sugar.  Sugar  should  first  be  dissolved  in  water, 
as  it  is  better.  This  is  used  over  fish,  steaks,  and 
chops. 

Army  chocolate  sauce. 

Take  ^  dish  pan  water,  2  pounds  sugar,  3  ounces 
chocolate,  and  ^  pound  cornstarch. 

Cream  sauce. 
Made  the  same  as  apple-fritter  sauce. 

Egg  sauce. 

Put  on  to  boil  2  quarts  water,  ^  can  cream,  2  ounces 
lard,  salt  and  pepper.  Thicken  with  J  pound  flour. 
^AHien  done  chop  4  hard-boiled  eggs  fine.     Then  serve. 

Spanish  sauce  (for  20  men). 

Take  saucepan  and  put  in  1  pint  beef  stock,  2  cans 
tomatoes,  4  chili  peppers  chopped  fine,  2  ounces  onions 
chopped  fine,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  J  ounce  black  pep- 
per. 2  or  3  dashes  red  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  browned 
suo^ar,  1  ounce  lard  or  butter.     Set  on  stove  and  let 


'te 


simmer  about  2  hours  or  till  done. 


12 

Tomato  sauce  for  baked  beans. 

Take  5  cans  tomatoes,  mash  up  with  hands,  add  2 
pounds  onions,  chopped,  ^  gallon  vinegar,  1  pound 
sugar  (dissolved  in  vinegar),  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
1  teaspoonful  each  Ca3^enne  pepper,  cinnamon,  and 
cloves. 

Tomato  cream  sauce. 

Made  exactl}^  like  Spanish  sauce  with  1  can  cream 
added. 

White  sauce  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  quarts  beef  stock,  2  ounces  butter,  ^  can 
cream,  J  pound  flour  with  cold  water  to  thicken.  Set 
all  on  stove  until  boils,  then  add  the  flour  till  thickened. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


GRAVIES. 

Brown;  flour  for  gravy. 

Roast  flour  the  same  as  roasting  coffee. 

Cream  gravy. 

Take  |  pan  beef  stock,  1  can  cream,  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  thicken  with  flour,  a  little  butter  if  on  hand. 

Burnt  sugar. 

Made  by  frying  J  pomid  sugar  in  a  pan.  Let  remain 
on  stove  and  boil  for  about  15  minutes.  TNHien  the 
color  of  the  sugar  is  a  dark  brown  pour  in  1  quart 
hot  water  and  let  simmer  about  15  minutes  till  done. 


13 
MEATS. 

BACON   AND   PORK. 

Bacon. 

Bacon  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  about  2  or  3 
hours,  cut  thin,  and  fried  crisp. 

Liver  and  Bacon. 

Cut  liver  in  thin  slices  the  day  before.  Wash  liver 
and  let  soak  in  cold  water,  drain  liver  and  let  dry  out 
in  sack  or  towel.  Salt  and  pepper  liver  and  put  in 
flour.  Fry  bacon,  then  fry  j^our  liver  in  bacon  grease. 
One  pound  of  bacon  to  2  pounds  of  liver. 

Boston  baked  pork  and  beans  (for  20  men). 

Take  5  pounds  beans,  put  into  soak  overnight  and 
boil  for  2  hours  next  morning.  Then  draw  water  and 
put  into  baking  pan.  Season  with  salt  (2  ounces),  1 
quart  molasses.  Slice  4  pounds  bacon  and  put  in  oven 
and  let  bake  2  hours.  AYlien  done  they  should  be  a 
chocolate-brown  color. 

BEEF.. 

Beef  a  la  mode  (for  20  men). 

Take  8  pounds  raw  beef,  cut  in  slices  ^  inch  thick 
by  4  inches  square.  Take  a  dishpan,  set  on  stove,  and 
cover  meat  with  4  quarts  beef  stock  and  let  it  simmer 
till  well  done.  Add  1  can  tomatoes,  2  onions  chopped 
fine,  and  let  cook  for  ^  hour.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Take  1  pound  browned  flour  and  mix  with  1 
quart  cold  water,  pour  over  the  beef  and  let  cook  till 
thickened.     Add  |  gill  vinegar  and  serve  hot. 


14 

Boiled  beef  (for  20  men). 

Take  a  bake  pan  and  set  on  stove,  put  in  3  quarts 
cold  water,  8  pounds  beef,  cut  in  four  pieces,  and  let 
boil  for  about  2  hours  or  until  done.  Then  pour  white 
sauce  over  beef  and  serve. 

Boiled  beef  (corned)  and  cabbage  (for  20  men). 

Take  8  pounds  corned  beef  soaked  overnight,  re- 
move the  water,  add  about  4  gallons  fresh  cold  water 
to  draw  the  salt  out.  Let  boil  about  1  hour,  then  add 
8  pounds  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters  and  thoroly  washt 
in  cold  water,  and  let  boil  about  2  hours  longer,  and 
will  then  be  ready  to  serve. 

Beef  croquettes. 

Take  3  pounds  cold  beef,  cooked,  pass  thru  hash 
machine;  J  pound  onions  chopped  fine;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  mace.  Make  a  white  sauce:  1  pint 
beef  stock,  2  ounces  butter,  thickened  with  J  pound 
white  flour  in  ^  pint  water;  pour  the  sauce  over 
the  meat.  Set  aside  and  let  cool.  Roll  into  croquettes 
about  2  inches  in  diameter.  Beat  up  2  eggs,  dip  the 
croquettes  into  the  eggs,  then  into  cracker  dust.  Fry 
in  deep  hot  lard  same  as  doughnuts. 

Beef  fritters  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  pounds  flour.  2  ounces  baking  powder,  6 
eggs,  1  quart  cold  water,  3  pounds  beef,  cooked,  ground 
thru  hash  machine.  Stir  this  mixture  all  together  and 
beat  to  consistency  of  fritter  dough.  Serve  with  brown 
o-ravv.  *^ 


15 


Beef  hash. 


Take  3  pounds  cooked  meat  ground  in  machine,  1 
pound  onions  ground  in  machine,  and  5  pounds  pota- 
toes ground  in  machine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
groimd  sage  to  taste,  adding  3  quarts  stock.  Put  in 
oven  and  bake  brown  till  done — about  2  hours. 

Beef  hearts,  stuffed  with  bread  dressing  (for  20 
men). 

Take  3  beef  hearts,  thoroly  washt  in  cold  water, 
and  dry  thoroly.  Then  make  a  bread  stuffing  as  fol- 
lows: Two  loaves  stale  bread  soaked  in  about  1 
quart  cold  water  for  about  15  minutes,  2  ounces 
chopped  onions,  salt  and  pepper  and  ground  sage  to 
taste,  ^  pound  lard;  thoroly  mix  the  stuffing  together 
and  stuff  the  hearts  with  this  mixture.  Put  neatly  in 
a  bake  pan  with  a  little  grease  and  about  2  quarts 
beef  stock.  Let  bake  about  2  hours,  basting  frequently. 
Slice  and  serve. 

Beef  loaf  (for  20  men). 

Take  6  pounds  raw  beef  ground  fine,  1  pound  onions 
chopped  fine,  1  pound  cracker  dust  ground  fine,  4  eggs, 
salt  and  pepper,  4  chili  peppers,  and  1  pint  beef  stock, 
all  mixt  thoroly  and  molded  into  3-pound  loaves,  and 
put  in  oven  and  baked  for  2  hours.  Baste  frequently. 
^^Tien  baked,  loaves  are  sliced  and  served  either  hot  or 
cold. 

Roast  beef. 

Cut  in  pieces.  Place  in  pan.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.     Cover  beef  with  a  little  flour  to  brown  beef. 


16 

Pour  in  a  little  water  to  keep  moist  and  furnish  water 
for  grav}^  Koast  from  2  to  3  hours,  depending  upon 
sizes  of  pieces  of  beef.     Baste  well. 

Broiled  beefsteak. 

Grease  meat  and  place  on  top  of  stove  to  cook.  Turn 
frequently  until  done,  well  done,  or  rare,  as  desired. 
Salt  and  pepper  and  add  a  little  butter  on  top.  Cover 
steak  and  put  away. 

Beefsteak  and  onions  (for  20  men). 

Take  8  pounds  beef,  cut  in  steaks  ^  inch  thick. 
Put  a  frying  pan  on  stove  with  a  little  grease  and  fry 
about  20  minutes,  or  till  done.  After  the  steaks  are 
dished  up,  put  the  onions  in  the  hot  grease  and  let  fry 
15  minutes,  or  till  done.  Onions  served  on  top  of  beef- 
steaks. 

Hamburg-er  steak  (for  20  men). 

Take  5  pounds  raw  beef,  ground  or  chopped,  2 
pounds  onions,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all 
together  and  roll  out  in  round  balls  of  2  or  3  ounces, 
and  either  put  in  oven  and  bake,  or  fry  like  doughnuts 
in  deep  hot  pot.     Serve. 

Stewed  beef  (for  20  men). 

Take  8  pounds  raw  beef  or  cooked  beef,  cut  in 
strips  about  2  inches  long,  put  in  bake  pan,  pour  over 
5  quarts  of  beef  stock,  2  ounces  onions  chopped,  ^  bunch 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  thicken  with  ^  pound 
flour  mixt  in  about  1  pint  water,  2  tablespoonfuls 
burnt  sugar,  to  color  the  mixture,  and  let  simmer  on 
the  stove  for  about  2  hours,  or  till  done. 


IT 

Beef  stew  with  dumplings. 

Take  5  pounds  raw  beef,  cut  into  pieces  1  inch 
square,  5  pounds  potatoes  diced  about  1  inch  square,  1 
can  tomatoes,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
all  ingredients  in  a  pan.  Place  in  about  3  quarts  beef 
stock,  put  on  stove,  and  let  cook  for  about  IJ  hours. 
Make  dumplings  batter  of  2  pounds  flour,  3  eggs,  1  pint 
milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  mix  all  together  thorolj^  Drop  in  the  hot 
mixture  about  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  and  let  boil 
about  15  minutes,  and  then  serve  good  and  hot. 

Chili  con  carne  (for  20  men). 

Take  4  pounds  cold  boiled  meat,  cut  into  about  ^-inch 
dices,  put  into  baking  pan  enough  bacon  grease  to 
cover  the  bottom  of  pan,  chop  about  2  pounds  onions 
fine,  and  put  the  onions  and  beef  in  the  hot  greased 
frying  pan.  Let  the  meat  and  onions  brown  nice 
brown  color;  chop  fine  about  3  ounces  chili  peppers, 
put  into  the  mixture  and  let  simmer  for  about  1  hour. 
Take  about  5  pounds  cold  boiled  beans,  grind  them  thru 
hash  machine  and  add  to  the  boiled  mixture;  let  sim- 
mer about  ^  hour.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
ground  cloves.  Add  about  3  tablespoonfuls  burnt 
sugar  and  let  simmer  20  minutes  longer  and  serve  hot, 

either  on  toast  or  without. 

Crepinettes  de  veau. 

Take  f  cold  cooked  meat,  ^  raw  beef  without  fat. 
Chop  into  sausage  meat;  season  with  powdered  sage, 
salt,  and  plenty  of  black  pepper.  Make  into  little 
cakes   and   fr}^   brown   on    both   sides   shortl}^   before 


18 

wanted.     Serve  with  gravy.     Sixteen  pounds  cooked 
meat  and  8  pounds  raw  beef  enough  for  80  men. 

Mutton  potpie  (for  20  men). 

Take  6  pounds  mutton  chopped  in  small  pieces,  5 
pounds  potatoes  chopped  in  small  pieces,  1  can  toma- 
toes, 2  or  3  onions,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Thicken  with  browned  flour  in  4  quarts  water,  2  quarts 
beef  stock.  All  cooked  together,  slowly,  in  open  pan 
for  about  2  hours.     Crust  same  as  for  oyster  potpie. 

Pot  roast  (for  20  men). 

Take  8  pounds  beef,  put  on  stove  in  deep  kettle  and 
let  brown  for  about  20  minutes.  Then  add  1  pint  beef 
stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  2  onions  chopped 
fine,  and  let  simmer  for  about  2  hours  until  done. 
Turn  frequently. 

VEGETABLES. 

Baked  beans  (for  100  men). 

Take  25  pounds  dry  beans  that  have  been  soaked  over- 
night and  drain  off  the  water,  cover  them  (little  over) 
with  fresh  water  and  boil  for  1  hour.  This  water  will 
cook  beans  well.  Divide  them  in  2  large  bake  pans 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  7  pounds  bacon, 
diced,  ^  gallon  molasses,  and  bake  at  least  3  hours. 

POTATOES. 

Baked  potatoes. 

Peel  potatoes,  wash  thoroly,  and  place  in  shallow 
pan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  1  sliced  onion, 
sprinkle  with  a  little  flour.  Put  in  a  little  lard  and 
beef  stock.     Bake  in  oven  until  done. 


Id 

Baked  sweet  potatoes  and  apples  (for  80  men). 

Take  30  pounds  sweet  potatoes  and  12  pounds  apples. 
Boil  potatoes  about  2  minutes ;  then  peel  and  slice  care- 
f  ulh^  Boil  apples  1  minute ;  then  peel,  core,  and  slice. 
Take  greased  bake  pan  and  put  in  layer  of  potatoes, 
then  layer  of  apples,  and  so  on.  Put  over  all  a  little 
butter  or  beef  suet.  If  apples  are  too  sour,  add  a  little 
brown  sugar.  Bake  all  in  pan  until  done  and  serve 
warm. 

A  little  expensive,  but  an  excellent  holiday  dish. 

Potato  balls   (for  90  men). 

Mash  about  25  pounds  boiled  potatoes,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  little  milk.  Make  into 
small  balls  and  put  into  a  pan  with  ver}"  little  grease 
and  brown  on  both  sides. 

Boiled  potatoes  (for  20  men). 

Take  10  pounds  potatoes,  thoroly  washt,  and  put 
in  a  tin  boiler  and  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  boil 
4  hour.  After  water  boils,  stick  a  fork  into  1  or  2 
potatoes ;  if  fork  enters  easily,  they  are  done.  Remove 
from  stove  and  pour  the  water  off  and  serve  good  and 
hot,  with  or  without  skins. 

Creamed  potatoes. 

Take  8  pounds  raw  potatoes,  diced  in  1-inch  pieces, 
boil  until  done,  then  pour  water  off;  add  1  quart  cold 
water,  1  can  cream,  and  a  little  parsley,  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  thicken  with  ^  pound  white  flour  mixt  in  1 
pint  cold  water,  then  serve. 


20 

Fried  potatoes. 

Boil  with  peelings  on.  then  slice  and  fry  in  lard ;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

German  fried  potatoes  (for  20  men). 

Take  8  pounds  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  round 
slices ;  add  2  pounds  onions  chopped  fine,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Put  in  about  ^  pound  lard  and  fry  to  nice 
brown  color  and  serve  hot. 

Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

Boil  30  pounds  potatoes  and  cut  up.  Mix  in  5 
pounds  raw  onions  and  little  grease  or  lard.  Bake  in 
oven  till  done  and  browned. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Take  boiled  potatoes,  peel,  mash  well,  adding  cream, 
salt,  and  pepper. 

Potato  salad  (for  20  men). 

Take  6  pounds  cold  boiled  potatoes  diced  in  J-inch 
pieces;  2  pounds  onions,  raw,  chopped  fine;  1  bunch 
parsley  chopped  fine;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Make  a  French  dressing  as  follows:  1  pint  vinegar, 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (brown  or  white) ,  2  or  3  dashes 
red  pepper,  1  ounce  dry  mustard,  ^  pound  bacon 
chopped  fine  and  fried.  Pour  the  vinegar  mixture  on 
the  hot  bacon  and  grease.  Then  set  back  on  stove  to 
keep  warm,  and  when  ready  to  serve  pour  the  vinegar, 
grease,  etc.,  over  the  potatoes,  etc.,  then  serve. 


21 
Saratoga  potatoes. 

Dice  potatoes  raw,  boil  them  until  done,  then  drain 
and  set  away  and  let  cool.  A'VTien  cool  fry  in  butter  or 
lard  until  nice  and  brown.  Add  parsley  and  chopped 
onions,  1  quart  rich  milk.  Thicken  with  J  pound 
flour.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot. 

Escalloped  potatoes  (for  100  men). 

Take  35  pounds  cold  boiled  potatoes,  8  pounds  cheese, 
8  cans  condensed  milk,  and  3  or  4  basting-spoonfuls  of 
flour.  Pare  potatoes  and  slice  them.  Grate  cheese 
fine  and  mix  cheese  evenly  with  potatoes  in  bake  pan. 
Mix  flour  with  milk  and  dilute  milk  with  water  until 
potatoes  are  covered.     Bake  in  slow  oven. 

It  is  sometimes  thought  to  be  an  improvement  to 
use  less  cheese  and  a  much  larger  quantity  of  finely 
ground  beef  suet. 

Fried  mush  (for  SO  men). 

Take  2  quarts  beef  stock,  2  quarts  water,  1  ounce 
salt,  and  set  on  stove  and  let  boil  for  4  or  5  minutes. 
Add  2  pounds  corn  meal.  Put  the  meal  in  a  flour 
sieve  and  shake  it  gradually,  stirring  it  thoroly  all  the 
time,  until  it  commences  to  thicken.  Then  set  on  back 
part  of  stove  and  let  simmer  for  about  1  hour  or  till 
done,  when  it  drops  freely  from  the  paddle.  Pour  into 
dish  pan  about  1  inch  deep  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
cool  cut  into  2-inch  squares.  Have  about  J  pound  lard 
in  frying  pan.  Fry  to  nice  brown  color.  Serve  hot 
with  sirup. 


22 

Indian  corn  meal  mush. 

Take  5  ounces  corn  meal,  2  quarts  boiling  water, 
1  ounce  salt.  Mix  corn  meal  with  cold  water  before 
putting  it  in,  to  prevent  lumping.  Stir  in  slowly  but 
be  careful  to  keep  the  water  boiling.  Cover  closely 
and  let  boil  2J  hours.  Stir  frequently,  to  prevent 
scorching.  Take  off  when  thick  and  let  cool.  Eight 
pounds  corn  meal  enough  for  80  men. 

Macaroni  and  cheese  (for  80  men). 

Break  14  pounds  macaroni  into  convenient  lengths 
and  put  into  boiler  of  boiling  salted  water.  Use  eight 
or  ten  times  as  much  water  as  macaroni.  Boil  from  20 
to  30  minutes,  until  tender.  Draw  off  water  and  pour 
macaroni  into  a  w^ell-greased  bake  pan  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  1^  hours  or  until  done,  then  cover 
with  the  following  dressing:  Two  cans  tomatoes,  2 
gallons  beef  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  teaspoonful 
thyme  or  a  little  bay  leaves,  and  a  little  suet  or  butter. 
Put  all  the  dressing  in  a  small  boiler  on  fire  and  keep 
stirring  until  ingredients  are  well  incorporated.  Pass 
dressing  thru  a  sieve  and  pour  over  macaroni.  Grate 
over  macaroni  and  sauce  6  or  8  pounds  cheese. 


BKEAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC. 

Corn  bread  (for  20  men). 

Take  2-|-  pounds  white  flour,  2^  pounds  corn  meal, 
J  pound  butter,  I  pound  lard,  2  ounces  baking  powder, 
1  quart  milk,  8  eggs  (yolks  and  whites)  beaten  sepa- 
rately, 1  ounce  salt,  2  ounces  brown  sugar.     Mix  all 


23 

thoroly  together.  Grease  a  bake  pan  well  and  pour  in 
the  mixture  and  let  bake  about  45  minutes  or  till  done. 
Test  with  a  broom  straw  into  center  of  cake.  If  it 
comes  out  clean  and  dry  it  is  done:  if  wet  or  stuff 
sticks,  not  done. 

Corn  bread  (for  15  men). 

Take  2  heaping  cups  yellow  corn  meal,  1  cup  flour, 
3  eggs,  2J  cups  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  lard,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Beat  eggs  thoroly,  whites  and  yolks 
separately.  Sift  baking  powder  with  corn  meal  and 
flour.  Melt  lard,  add  the  last.  Beat  fast  and  thoroly. 
Bake  ^  hour  in  greased  pan. 

Bread  dressing  (for  20  men). 

Take  5  pounds  stale  bread,  put  in  cold  water  and  let 
soak  15  minutes,  then  drain  off  the  water.  Have 
chopped  fine  2  pounds  raw  onions;  1  ounce  sage, 
ground ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  ^  pound  lard,  butter, 
suet,  or  bacon  grease.  Thoroly  mix  together  and  set 
in  oven  and  let  bake  about  1  hour.  When  ready  to 
dish  up  pour  2  quarts  beef  stock  over  the  dressing  and 
then  serve. 

French  toast  or  fried  bread  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  loaves  old  bread  left,  and  cut  in  slices. 
Beat  3  eggs  well  together.  Add  J  pint  milk,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar.  Put  on  stove  in  frying  pan  with  2  ounces 
butter.  Dip  the  slices  of  bread  in  the  egg  batter  and 
put  in  pan  and  fry  a  nice  brown.     Serve  hot. 


24 

Kye  and  graham  bread. 

Take  ^  wheat  flour,  ^  graham  (or  rye)  flour,  add  1 
quart  molasses  for  100  pounds  dough.  Use  sponge  and 
dough  system.     Make  sponge  of  wheat  flour. 

English  tea  biscuit  (for  80  men). 

Take  16  pounds  flour,  2  pounds  lard,  2  quarts  cold 
water,  3  pounds  granulated  sugar,  2  ounces  caraway 
seed,  2  ounces  ammonia,  "for  baker's  use,"  2  ounces 
baking  powder.  Cut  with  regular  or  fancy  cutters. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Ammonia  "for  baker's  use" 
can  be  had  in  any  reliable  drug  store,  4  ounces  for  10 
cents. 

Biscuits  (for  20  men). 

Take  4  pounds  flour,  2  pounds  lard,  2  ounces  baking 
powder,  3  quarts  Avater  (cold),  1  ounce  salt.  Mix  to- 
gether like  dough,  making  medium  stiff  dough.  Grease 
pan  before  putting  in  biscuits.  Roll  dough  -J  inch 
thick.  Place  in  pan  close  together  and  bake  for  15 
minutes  or  till  they  are  twice  their  original  size. 

Before  baking  biscuits  punch  them  with  a  fork  to 
have  them  hold  their  shape. 

Buckwheat  cakes  (for  20  men). 

Take  4  pounds  self-raising  buckwheat  flour  and  mix 
with  cold  water  till  it  will  pour  easily  from  spoon. 
Add  1  ounce  salt.  Have  cake  griddle  well  greased  and 
hot.  Bake  for  about  5  minutes.  ^Ylien  done  on  one 
side  turn  over  and  send  to  table  good  and  hot.  Butter 
and  sirujD  used  to  eat  with  cakes. 


25 

New  England  corn  johnnycake  (for  80  men). 

Take  7  pounds  corn  meal,  7  pounds  flour,  2  pounds 
granulated  sugar,  1^  pounds  lard,  4  ounces  salt,  3  cans 
evaporated  cream,  18  eggs,  12  ounces  baking  powder. 
Rub  in  lard  with  hand  and  make  a  fine  batter  with  cold 
water.  '\A'lien  well  mixt  pour  into  a  well-greased  pan. 
Bake  at  once  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Note. — Eggs  may  be  reduced  if  baking  powder  is 
increased. 

White-bread  batter  cakes  (for  80  men). 

Take  8  pounds  bread  crumbs,  6  pounds  flour,  8  eggs, 
4  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder,  IJ  ounces  salt,  cold 
water  or  milk  to  mix  it.  Remove  all  dark  crusts  from 
the  bread  and  soak  in  cold  water  until  soft,  press  out 
dry,  mash  smooth,  add  flour,  water  (or  milk),  eggs, 
and  powder.  It  alwaj^s  improves  batter  cakes  to  beat 
the  eggs  light  before  mixing  them  in.  No  shortening 
or  sirup  needed  for  above.     Cost  60  cents. 

Corn-meal  muffins  (for  90  men). 

Take  4  pounds  flour,  6  pounds  corn  meal,  3  pounds 
sugar,  1  dozen  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder, 
2  ounces  salt,  and  about  1  gallon  water.  Mix  up  to 
thin  dough  and  bake. 

Graha^m  gems  or  muffins  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  pounds  graham  flour,  2  pounds  wheat  flour, 
J  pound  melted  butter,  1  ounce  salt,  2  ounces  baking 
powder,  6  eggs,  1  quart  milk,  and  thoroly  beat  these 
ingredients.  Have  gem  pans  nicely  greased.  Pour 
in  the  batter  and  fill  gem  pans  about  half  full.  Put 
in  a  verv  hot  oven  and  bake  20  minutes. 


26 

Hot  muffins  (for  20  men). 

Take  3  pounds  flour.  1  ounce  baking  powder,  ^  ounce 
salt,  3  ounces  lard  or  butter,  3  eggs,  and  enough  water 
or  milk  to  make  a  batter  to  drop  from  spoon.  Grease 
the  gem  pans  or  muffin  mugs  and  fill  mugs  half  full  of 
dough  and  bake. 

PUDDINGS,  ETC. 

Apple  pudding  (for  20  men). 

Same  as  peach  pudding,  except  use  apples  instead  of 
peaches. 

Apple  dumplings. 

Take  5  pounds  pie  dough  and  roll  out  in  strips  about 
6  b}^  4  inches,  rather  thin.  Put  on  each  strip  a  spoon- 
ful of  stewed  apples,  evaporated  (if  green  fresh  apples 
use  raw),  and  fold  over  the  four  corners  and  roll  in  a 
round  ball.  Put  in  oven  and  bake  about  45  minutes 
or  till  done.  Serve  hot  with  a  white  sauce  (sweet 
cream). 

Apple  fritters  (for  20  men). 

Take  4  pounds  flour,  6  ounces  baking  powder,  1 
ounce  salt,  6  eggs  broken  in  flour,  3  pints  water,  1  can 
cream,  1  quart  stewed  apples.  Mix  all  together.  Add 
flour  until  it  is  thick  enough  to  drop  from  spoon.  Fry 
in  hot  lard  like  doughnuts. 

Apple  roll  (for  20  men). 

Take  3  pounds  flour,  1  pound  lard,  1  ounce  baking 
powder,  2  ounces  salt,  mix  with  cold  water,  enough  to 
make  a  thick  dough,  J  pound  dried  apples,  soak  and 


27 

cook.  Roll  out  dough  similar  to  cinnamon  roll,  place 
in  greased  bread  pan.  Break  and  beat  an  egg  and 
paint  rolls  with  this  to  brown  color.  The  egg  is  not 
necessary,  but  it  makes  rolls  look  well.  Place  in  oven 
and  bake. 

Stewed  apples  or  apple  sauce  (for  20  men). 

Take  1  quart  water,  2  pounds  apples,  1^  pounds 
sugar,  1  lemon,  squeezed  and  peeling  in,  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg  to  taste.  Put  all  on  stove  and  let  cook  about 
1  hour.     Soaking  of  apples  not  necessary. 

Cornstarch  pudding  (for  20  men). 

Take  1  pound  cornstarch,  1  pound  sugar  (granulated), 
3  quarts  water,  1  quart  cream  or  milk,  2  ounces  salt, 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  1 
dozen  eggs,  when  practicable.  Heat  water  to  a  boiling 
point.  Stir  in  cream,  salt,  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  nut- 
meg. Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  a  small  portion  of 
the  water  and  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Boil  briskly 
for  a  few  minutes,  stirring  often  to  avoid  scorching. 
Set  to  cool  in  any  kind  of  A^essels,  cups,  vegetable 
dishes,  etc.     Flavor  with  lemon,  etc.,  if  desired. 

For  baked  cornstarch,  pour  this  into  a  well-greased 
baking  pan  and  bake  about  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  for  this. 

Cracker  pudding. 

Take  ^  dishpanful  cracker  meal  (part  bread  soaked), 
water,  3  pounds  sugar.  Mix  up  1  can  cream  and 
peaches,  stewed,  on  top.  Bake  in  oven.  Sauce  for 
same  made  as  follows:  2  gallons  water,  2  cans  cream, 
3  pounds  sugar,  2  ounces  salt,  and  1  pound  cornstarch. 


28 

Custard  pudding"  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  quarts  milk,  1  quart  water,  ^  ounce  salt,  6 
eggs,  2  pounds  sugar,  and  thoroly  beat  all  together. 
Have  a  baking  pan  well  greased  and  pour  the  mixture 
in  and  bake  about  |  hour  or  till  it  is  done,  then  serve. 
Can  either  flavor  it  or  not.  The  best  way  to  test  this 
pudding  is  to  stick  a  straw  in  its  center.  If  straw 
comes  out  clean  it  is  done,  if  particles  stick  to  straw  it 
is  not  done. 

Custard  bread  pudding  (for  20  men). 

Take  6  pounds  stale  or  fresh  bread,  cut  into  small 
bits,  1  inch  each  way.  Then  make  a  custard  of  2 
quarts  milk,  8  eggs,  1  pound  granulated  sugar,  1  nut- 
meg, a  little  salt  (very  little),  ^  pound  cornstarch. 
Put  milk  on  stove  and  let  come  to  boil,  and  add  the 
other  ingredients,  and  when  it  thickens  it  is  done. 
Pour  over  the  diced  bread  and  serve  hot. 

English  plum  pudding  (for  80  men). 

Take  3  pounds  raisins,  3  pounds  currants,  IJ  pounds 
brown  sugar,  1  pound  orange  peel,  3  pounds  beef  suet 
chopped  fine  and  freed  from  fiber,  3  pounds  flour,  peel 
of  6  lemons,  IJ  ounces  mixt  spices,  3  pinches  salt,  15 
eggs,  li  pints,  milk,  6  glasses  brandy  or  best  whisky. 
Mix  well,  tie  up  with  cloth  in  cans,  boil  5  or  6  hours. 
Serve  with  brandy  sauce. 

Fruit  puddings. 

Are  exactly  as  the  fruit  rolls,  only  the  crust  is  put 
in  a  pan  the  same  as  making  a  pie.  Filling  put  in 
and  cooked  with  a  top  crust. 


29 

Peach  pudding  (for  20  men). 

Take  3  pounds  flour,  1  pound  beef  suet,  1  ounce  salt, 

1  quart  milk,  2  ounces  baking  powder,  12  eggs,  J  pound 
sugar,  and  1  pint  cold  water.  Beat  these  ingredients 
all  well  together  to  the  consistency  of  a  cake  batter 
dough  (to  drop  easily  from  spoon).  Have  a  well- 
greased  pan,  pour  the  mixture,  and  let  bake  about  1 
hour,  or  till  done.  Make  a  white  sauce  as  follows:  1 
quart  milk,  1  pint  flour,  1^  pounds  sugar,  2  pounds 
stewed  peaches,  and  set  on  stove.  Let  come  to  boil. 
Make  thickening  of  ^  pound  cornstarch  and  1  pint 
water,  and  pour  into  the  mixture  till  it  thickens,  and 
when  ready  to  serve  pour  over  pudding  and  set  in  the 
oven  for  about  15  minutes  to  bake  nice  and  brown. 
^Vhen  done  serve. 

Peach  fritters  (for  20  men). 

Take  4  pounds  flour,  6  ounces  baking  powder,  1 
ounce  salt,  6  eggs  broken  in  flour,  3  pints  water,  1  can 
cream,  1  quart  stewed  peaches,  mix  all  together.  Add 
flour  until  it  is  thick  enough  to  drop  from  spoon.  Fry 
in  hot  lard  like  doughnuts. 

Plum  pudding"  (for  80  men). 

Take  3  pounds  beef  suet  chopped  fine  and  freed  from 
fiber,  2J  pounds  stale  bread  crumbs  thoroly  grated,  | 
pound  brown  sugar,  rind  of  3  lemons,  |  pound  flour,  3 
pounds  raisins,  3  pounds  currants,  1^  pounds  citron, 

2  nutmegs,  15  eggs,  1^  pints  milk.  Put  in  deep  pan, 
mix  well,  tie  up  Avith  cloth  in  cans,  boil  5  to  6  hours. 
Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Everything  mentioned,  except  eggs,  should  be  pre- 
pared the  day  before. 
Cost  about  $2.75. 


30 

Rice  pudding  (for  20  men). 

Put  on  stove  in  a  tin  boiler  1  pound  of  rice  in  3 
quarts  of  water.  Let  boil  about  1  hour  or  till  done, 
then  remove  from  stove  and  add  6  eggs,  ^  pound  lard, 
1  pound  sugar,  ^  pound  currants,  J  pound  raisins,  and 
I  can  cream  diluted  in  1  pint  water.  Season  with  nut- 
meg, cinnamon,  and  salt.  Grease  a  bake  pan  and  put 
mixture  into  the  oven  and  let  cook  for  about  1  hour  or 
till  done. 

Tapioca  pudding  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  j^ounds  tapioca  and  boil  in  1  pint  cold  water 
for  20  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  1  quart 
fresh  milk  (cow's),  J  pound  sugar,  nutmeg,  cinnamon, 
salt,  and  ^  pound  butter,  and  8  eggs  well  beaten  all 
together.  Mix  all  thoroly  together.  Put  in  a  pudding 
dish  and  bake  f  hour  or  till  done,  and  serve  with  sweet 
cream  sauce. 

Sauce  for  apple  fritters  (for  20  men). 

Take  3  quarts  boiling  water.  ^  pound  cornstarch,  1 
can  cream.  Dissolve  starch  in  a  little  cold  water  to 
make  creamy  paste  of  it.  Pour  cream  in  boiling  water. 
Pour  in  cornstarch  water  when  other  water  is  boiling 
well.  Add  2  ounces  butter,  stir  well.  Remove  from 
stove  and  add  f  pound  granulated  sugar,  flour  with  a 
little  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  lemon  extract,  and  pinch  of 
salt.     Serve  hot  with  fritters.     Fritters  also  hot. 

Note. — In  frying  fritters  do  not  let  particles  of 
fritters  remain  in  grease;  the}^  will  burn  the  grease. 


31 


Brandy  sauce. 


Take  some  good  melted  butter  with  new  sweet  milk, 
according  to  amount  required.     Sweeten  to  taste  and 


add  about  4  glasses  of  brandy. 


DESSERTS. 
Ginger  cakes. 

Take  2  pounds  lard,  4  pounds  sugar,  and  rub  together. 
Then  add  2  dozen  eggs  (3  at  a  time).  Then  put  4 
ounces  ginger  in  about  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1  pinch 
salt.  1  gallon  molasses,  IJ  ounces  soda  (3  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder).  6  pounds  flour.  Make  a 
cake  dough.  Slack  so  as  to  drop  from  a  spoon.  Put 
in  2  bake  pans  and  bake  25  or  30  minutes  till  done. 

Griddle  cakes  (for  20  men). 

Take  3  pounds  flour.  2  ounces  baking  powder.  1 
ounce  salt,  10  eggs.  1  can  cream,  1  quart  water.  Mix 
to  consistency  of  thick  batter.  Fry  on  cake  griddle 
with  griddle  greased  with  bacon  rind  or  grease. 

Ginger  snaps  (for  100  men). 

Take  16  pounds  flour,  1  gallon  molasses,  4  pounds 
sugar,  6  ounces  powdered  ginger,  5  ounces  ammonia 
''for  baker's  use,"  4  ounces  baking  soda,  2J  ounces  salt, 
2^  ounces  powdered  cinnamon.  Cut  with  regular  cut- 
ter. AATien  about  to  put  in  the  oven  cover  the  tops  of 
the  cakes  with  a  wet  cloth.  This  will  cause  them  to 
spread  and  present  a  fine  appearance. 


32 

Rice  cakes  No.  1   (for  80  men). 

Take  10  pounds  rice  flour,  -2^  pounds  granulated 
sugar,  2  pounds  butter  or  lard,  8  ounces  baking  powder, 

2  cans  cream.  Roll  upon  pastry  board  and  shape  into 
cakes  with  a  cake  cutter.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

One  dozen  eggs  added  to  above  will  make  a  fine 
appearance. 

Cheap  ice  cream  (for  40  men,  6  men  to  1  quart 
ice  cream). 

Take  2  quarts  milk,  5  pounds  granulated  sugar,  7 
tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  5  cans  evaporated  cream  or 

3  quarts  fresh  milk,  -1  ounces  salt,  1  bottle  flavoring 
extract.  Boil  the  milk  and  cream,  reserving  J  cup  of 
milk.  Mix  the  sugar,  cornstarch,  and  salt  thoroly 
together,  add  cold  milk  to  the  sugar  mixture,  and 
when  well  mixt  add  the  boiling  milk,  turn  back  the 
mixture  into  the  double  boiler,  and  cook  20  minutes. 
Stir  constantly  until  smooth,  and  occasionally  after 
that.  Strain  all,  add  more  sugar  if  needed,  and  when 
cold  add  the  flavoring.  Freeze  as  usual.  This  may  be 
increased  by  adding  more  sugar  and  cream.  If  the 
milk  is  boiled  when  the  cornstarch  is  added  and  cooked 
thorol}^  there  will  be  no  taste  of  cornstarch.  Cost, 
$1.03.     Two  dozen  eggs  may  be  added  to  enrich  cream. 

Lemon  sherbet  (for  40  men). 

Take  25  lemons,  6  pounds  granulated  sugar.  8  quarts 
boiling  water.  Shave  off  peel  from  12  lemons  in  thin 
wafer-like  parings,  being  careful  to  take  none  of 
lighter-colored  rind  below  the  oil  cells.     Put  parings 


into  a  bowl  and  add  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  10 
minutes  closely  covered.  Cut  the  lemons  in  half,  re- 
move the  seeds,  squeeze  out  juice  and  add  it,  with 
sugar,  to  the  water.  If  needed,  add  more  sugar. 
AMien  cold  strain  thru  a  fine  strainer  into  can  and 
freeze  at  once. 

Orange  sherbet  (for  40  men). 

Take  8  tablespoonfuls  gelatin,  40  oranges  or  8  pints 
orange  juice,  7  pints  cold  water,  6  pounds  granulated 
sugar,  3  pints  boiling  water.  Soak  the  gelatin  in  1 
pint  cold  water.  Cut  the  oranges  in  halves,  remove 
the  seeds  and  squeeze  all  the  juice  into  a  large  pitcher 
or  bowl.  Add  sugar  to  juice.  Dissolve  the  gelatin 
in  the  boiling  water  and  add  all  to  mixture  in  pitcher. 
Strain  all  into  a  can  and  freeze.  If  oranges  are  very 
sour  use  more  sugar. 

Apple  pie  (for  20  men). 

Take  2}  pounds  stewed  apples,  season  with  cinna- 
mon, juice  of  I  lemon,  and  skin  chopped  fine.  Crust: 
4  pounds  flour  and  2  pounds  lard. 

Pumpkin  pie  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  pumpkins  and  peel  and  cut  in  about  2  or  3 
squares,  cover  with  water  and  let  boil  about  1  hour. 
Drain  off  water  and  mash  thoroly  and  add  ^  pound 
butter  or  bacon  grease,  J  pound  sugar.  Season  with 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  and  1  ounce  salt  and  1  quart 
milk  and  4  eggs  beaten  together.  Set  on  stove  and  let 
come  to  a  boil,  then  it  is  readv.     Remove  and  let  cool. 


34 

Stewed  prunes  (for  20  men). 

Take  2  pounds  prunes,  set  on  stove  with  water  to 
cover  and  let  cook  2  hours,  or  till  soft  and  well  done. 
Flavor  with  2  pounds  sugar  and  serve  cold. 

COFFEE. 
Coffee  for  party. 

Take  2  pounds  coffee,  5^  gallons  water,  and  whites  of 
2  eggs.     Water  just  boiling. 

Soldier  coffee  (for  20  men). 

Put  on  stove  2|  gallons  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Add  ^  pound  ground  coffee  and  let  boil  about  5  min- 
utes. Remove  from  stove  and  put  in  about  1  pint  cold 
water  to  settle  it.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 


^ 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


1 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  770  2 


