KlXAi 


■-/• 


Class iJiJllIi 

Book___J4_3£iL 
Copyright  N". 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSm 


IF  YOU  WOULD  HAVE 
A  FINE  ROSE  BED 

Five  things  observe  with  care : 

Whose  plants  you  get, 

What  plants  you  set, 

And  How  and  When  and  Where. 


Five  important  questions,  but  who  knows  the  right 
answer?  We  have  it.  All  in  a  little  book  "How  To 
Grow  Roses."  This  book  answers  not  only  these  five 
questions  but  almost  every  imaginable  question  you  need 
think  of  about  Roses. 

It  has  been  written  by  a  man  who  has  been  answering 
the  questions  about  Roses  from  a  hundred  thousand  cus- 
tomers in  the  past  ten  years.  He  knows  what  you  will 
need  to  know  to  have  success,  and  that  is  what  he  tells 
you  in  this  book.     (Price  10  cents.) 

Furthermore  this  firm  also  guarantees  their  roses  to 
bloom  for  you. 

If  you  want  a  Star  Rose  Bed — write  to 


The  Conard  &  Jones  Company 

Growers   of    the    "Best  Roses  in  America" 

Their  catalog  ought  to  be  in  every  flower  Wp»C<-     C^ffwrf^        P«5 

loving  home  in  America.     It's  free.  »"  CaL     VJIUVC,      1   d. 


\\  o 


23= 


;l  d 


i,^j 


1  t 

[y  ■      u^ 

> 

ji 

■A 

O 

'i  M 

E^ 

o 

o.'S 

^  s^; 

u 

Si.  •" 

w  g§ 

o 

"3  J! 

asii 

u 

&1 

Uh    1 

2 

o  i 

u.    ^ 

h 

T  a 

UJ     " 

(J 

CJ    ° 

•-3 

J 

^    4> 

bJ 

>- 

rt-O 

"3  2 

HE 

arren  St. 
nonl  Placi 

II 

bJ 

N     ' 

^ 

-^ 

■^"W 

!^"li 

C    9    oj 

OS     . 

•"  e  * 

Oo: 

—    ha**^ 

>.u 

J*l 

3=^ 

uu 

S-a  ° 

za 

M/^^T      A    T?1Z^T?'C       '^     made    from     the    finest    Fruits, 
rS.  V^J_//-VrvJVJjy    O       Nuts,    Spices    and    Brandy  obtain- 

HOME  ■  MADE  7""'' "' '° "'  ""\  "" 

FRUIT  CAKE  45c  per  lb. 

^    For  Sale  by  JOSHUA  CLARKE 
^^  121  Main  Street,    Lancaster,  Ohio 

C.  W.  WOODIN 
&  COMPANY 

WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL 

DRY  GOODS 

CARPETS  AND  NOTIONS 


NEW  YORK  OFFICE 
45-51    LISPENARD   STREET 


123-125  WEST  MAIN  ST.  LANCASTER,  OHIO 


THIMMES  BROS. 

Wholesale  and   Retail   Dealers  in 

FRESH  and  CURED   MEATS 

Shippers  of  all   kinds  of   Live  Stock 

CORNER  WHEELING  AND  COLUMBUS   STREETS    and 
221  SOUTH  BROAD  STREET  C.  PHONES  43  and  US 


LANCASTER,  OHIO 


Ohio  University 


ATHENS,  OHIO 

1910 

Summe 
School 

JUNE  20 -JULY  29 


C  40  Professors.  130  Classes. 
Training  Classes.  Model 
School.  College  Credits.  Free 
Lectures.  Kindergarten. 
Teachers'  Conferences.  Tui- 
tion, $3.00.  731  Students 
in  1909. 

C  SPECIAL  TERM  for  Teachers  and 
Prospective  Teachers  May  2  to 
July  "29.  Review  and  advanced  work 
— Preparation  for  Teachers'  Exam- 
inations.   Tuition,  13  weeks,  $6.00. 

ALSTON  ELLIS,  President 


Seeds  That  Grow! 

If  you  want  the  Best  it  is  possible  to  Grow, 
such  as  you  can  rely  upon  to  produce  the 
Choicest  Vegetables  and  Most  Beautiful 
Flowers,  you  should  try  BURPEE'S  SEEDS ! 

We  shall  be  pleased  to  mail  you,  upon  application,  Burpee's  New  Annua} 
for  1910,— long  knovi^n  as  "The  Leading  American  Seed  Catalog."  The 
first  edition  is  more  than  four  hundred  thousand  copies  and  yet  it  is  too 
expensive  a  book  of  178  pages  to  mail  unsolicited  except  to  our  regular 
customers.  With  elegant  colored  plates  and  hundreds  of  illustrations 
from  nature  it  tells  plain  truth  and  is  a  Safe  Guide  to  success  in  the 
garden.     Do  you  want  a  copy  ?     If  so,  send  your  address  today  to 

W.  ATLEE  BURPEE  &  CO. 

SEED  GROWERS  PHILADELPHIA,  PA. 


The  Weekly  Record   *[ 

Send  it  to  your  friends   and  save  yourself  " 

the  trouble  of  writing  the  news  in  letters  j     ^f»   ^ 

l/^D       DOnVnrfM/^         M]    stationery.  CalUng  cards,       !      ^      I 
«|V^II>      A     1^11^    1   11^  V*        ^  and  Invitations  a  Specialty.       i  "^ 

of  Every  Description  o7deV*ol°Pr7n°rn''/''''         a  Year 


Your  inquiries  will  receive    the    prompt 
attention  of  our  Mail  Order  Department 


Bonnet's 


JEWELERS      K^^^'n  "Ti  ^T   O      OPTICIANS 


77  NORTH  HIGH  ST.,  COLUMBUS,  OHIO 


w c w...  ^  Q  WEBB  &  SON  •"""'' 

Dealers  in 

FRESH  AND  SALT  MEATS 

LIVE    STOCK,    POULTRY,   ETC. 
Shop  No.  2-Phone  Is  NEW  STRAITSVILLE,  OHIO 


JOHN  R.  HELLENTHAL 

Greenhouses:   No.  32        ^T^^l  ^  m  Store:  No.    253  South 

East  Moler  Street  B^     I  ^^  «iSV  ^%  ^T  ^'^''  Street 

BOTH    PHONES    JL      AX^A    AOL      COLUMBUS, OHIO 

Notable  Kitchen  Specialties 

of  all  kinds,  to  lighten  the  housekeeper's 
wrork,  will  be  found  at  the 

SCHOEDINGER-M  ARR  CO. 

106  North  High  Street,  Columbus,  Ohio 

5 


Pohrs  Hair  &  Physical 

C'       / «  I   \  1  Successor  to 

mime  rarior  /^^j.Sf'"'"'' 

122 >2    South  High  Street,  Room    1 
COLUMBUS,  OHIO 

Everything  in  Hair  Goods 

Made  to  your  Order.     Prices  Reasonable 

Mechano    Therapeutic    Treat- 
ments for  the  hod^ 


OPTICAL  GOODS.     Eyes  examined  free 


PROF.  I.  H.  POHL,  Prop. 


The  Golden  Rule  Policy 


of  treating  our  customers  as  we  would  wish  them  to  treat  us  has,  in  a  third 
of  a  century,  built  our  business  from  nothing  to  many  million  dollars  a  year, 
and  it  is  growing  at  a  tremendous  rate. 

We  guarantee  that  all  goods  you  buy  of  us  shall  suit  you  perfectly,  cr 
we  stand  ready  to  refund  your  money. 

We  sell  everything  that  you  eat,  use  and  wear. 

Our  Groceries  are  pure  and  comply  with  all  requirements  of  National  and  State 
Pure  Food  Laws. 

If  you  are  not  in  possession  of  our  large,  general,  annual  catalogue,  you  can  lave  a 
copy  free  and  prepaid  if  you  will  lake  the  trouble  to  write  us  for  it. 

Also,  our  large  Grocery  Price  List,  issued  new  every  sixty  days.  A  complete  guide 
to  all  the  good  things  to  eat,  sold  by  us  at  lower  than  usual  prices.    Write  for  either,  or  both. 

Yours  respectfully, 

Montgomery  Ward  &  Co. 

Chicago  Avenue  Bridge,  Chicago 


CHARLES  CANTER 

Shawnee,  O. 

Mary  C.  Rader 

FASHIONABLE 

MILLINERY 

SHAWNEE,  OHIO 

FLORIST 

Indoor  and  outdoor  Vegetables,  Flowers, 
Plants  of  all  kinds.    Floral  Designs  made  to 
order.    All  kinds  of  Cut  Flowers  in  season. 

X 

< 

H 

o 
z 

en 


u 
> 

CD 

O 
2 

UN 

en 


"^nx^ 


JLOGA^ 


LONO 

TELEPHONI 


sYs;S§ 


C 

< 
m 

> 

r 

H 
PI 

r 
n 

o 
z 

w 

H 


The  Perry  County  Telephone  Company 

Good  Service  at  Reasonable  Rates  General  Office,  NEW  LEXINGTON,  OHIO 


JENKINS  BROS. 

The  Old  Reliable  Stand 

Shawnee,  O. 

Fancy  Groceries,  Dry  Goods,  Ladies'  and 
Gents'  Furnishings,  etc. 


Elder  and  Rieske 

Shawnee,  O. 

ICE  CREAM 

By  Wholesale  and  Retail 

Fresh  Bread  and  Cakes  Daily 

Service  as  Regalar  as  the  Sun 


Guaranteed  for  15  Years 
No  More  Roof 


Exp 


ense 


When  you  use  Dickelman  Extra — your  roof  troubles  are  over.  Our  15-year  guaranty- 
Stamped  on  every  roll — and  given  to  you  in  black  and  white  protects  you  absolutely.  It 
simply  means  that  you  will  have  no  more  roof  expense — no  more  roof  troubles — for  at 
least  15  years  after  the  date  you  purchase.  Most 
likely  you  will  never  have  to  roof  the  same  building 
again. 

DICKELMAN  EXTRA 

Galvanized  Metal  Roofing 

We  guarantee  it  for  15  years,  but  know  it  will  last  twice  that  long. 

We  kiimv  that  our  roofing  which  was  put  up  2j  years  ago  is  still  in  excellent 
tecnditiim — and  should  last  25  years  longer.  We  do  not  simply  tell  you  or  promise 
i  you  our  roofing  will  last  for  15  years — we  guarantee  it.  Ask  your  dealer  about 
DICKELMAN  EXTRA.  If  he  doesn't  sell  it,  write  us  at  once  for  sample  and 
our  valuable  roofing  book — sent  prepaid.  Kuovi  -u'/iywe  ca.r\  ^-i/arantee  o\xv  roofing 
for  15  years  while  others  make  vague  promises  that  mean  nothing. 

The  secret  of  the  durability  of  Dickelman  Extra  lies  in  the  wonderful  system 
of  galvanizing — and  the  high  quality  of  the  materials  used.     The  metal  sheet  we 
use  for  a  base  is  made  by  a  special  process  which  leaves  it  tough — yet  pliable 
and  open-grained.     So  the  galvanizing  material  fills  up  the  "pores" — and  actu- 
ally becomes  a  part  of  the  finished   sheet.     This  prevents  it  from  cracking — 

.scaling — wearing  or  rusting  off. 


Try  a  Can  of  BARRINGTON  HALL 

the  steel  cut  *'Bakerize<i"  coffee,  if  you 
wish   a   surprise    in    real    coffee    flavor 

SPENCER'S         O  C^-fc  i**lb. 

General  Merchandise  and  Groceries       ^     ^^^  ^^       ^B  ^b  . . 

NEW  STRAITSVILLE,  OHIO  ^^^^  ^^^^  ^L  ^ 

C^-^      jV/flC'I'^f*  f     Today  is  the  day.      Yesterday  is  gone,  tonior- 
*^^y  y    iTllSLd   •     row  never  conies.     So  if   you   have  any    horse 
^^^^if^i^^B^i^^^mi^^am     shoeing,  wagon  or    carriage  work  to    be  done, 
get  busy.     Please  bring  it  in  today. 

W.  C.  Crooks,  New  Straitsville.  Ohio 


Dealers  in 


L.  ATLAS  &  SON 

NEW  DRY  GOODS,  CLOTHING 

STRAITSVILLE.  HATS,  CAPS  and  SHOES 


Forest  Rose  Flour 

Has  Stood  the  Test  of  Time 


fl 


Other  brands  come  and  go,  but  careful  bakers 
and  housekeepers  insist  on  this  brand.  When 
ordering  flour  specify  Forest  Rose  Flour. 
The  leading  grocers  have  it  for  sale.  Take  no- 
substitute. 

MADE   BY 

THE  GRAHAM  &  BLACK  CO. 

LANCASTER,  OHIO 

0 


.  t.  -ri     ■     1-0) 
^   ?i    C  "S  ii-^ 


c 
c 
o 
U 


10 


The  Largest  and  Most  Reliable  Optical 
House  in  Ohio 


The  White-Haines  Optical  Co, 


COLUMBUS,    OHIO  ' '//  wc  make  it.  it  must  be  right ' ' 

COMPLIMENTS   OF 

The  Crawford 
McGregor  &  Canby  Co. 

DAYTON,  OHIO 
The  largest  manufacturers  oj 

Sectional  Bowling  Alleys,  Bowling  Alley 
Supplies  and  Sundries  in  the  World 

A.  W.  JACKSON  &  SON 

BLANK  BOOK  BINDERY 

Magazines,  Music,  Etc.,  Bound  in  any  Desired  Style 
CORRESPONDENCE  SOLICITED 

40  East  Gay  Street  Citizens  Phone  1  1266  COLUMBUS.  O. 

11 


The  Straitsville 

Impervious  Brick  Co. 


Manufacturers  of 


Buff,  Grey,  Speckled  and 
Flashed 


Face  Brick 


Factory 

New  Straitsville,  O. 


Main  Office 

Chamber  of  Commerce,  Chicago,  III. 

12 


1870     W.R.  CALKINS     i^io 

For  40  years  we  have  supplied  your  wants  in 

GENERAL  HARDWARE 

We  are  also  headquarters  for  Kitchen  Utensils  in  Aluminum,  Copper,  Granite,  Iron, 
Tin  and  Wood.     Not  al^vays  cheap,  but  always  good.      40  years   have  proven  !t. 

NEW  STRAITSVILLE.  OHIO 


J.  D.  MARTIN,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 
FRANK  FRANCIS,  President 


The  Sines  Brothers 
&  Company 


Miners  and  Shippers  of 


Straitsville 

Lower 
Vein  Coal 


Nev\r  Straitsville,  Ohio 

13 


PI 


ummer 


Hill  Cattery 


New  Straitsville 
Ohio 

Beautiful 

Angora 

and 

Persian 
Kittens 

White,  Orange 

and  Cream,  Silvers 

and  Silver  Tabbies 

a  Specialty 


Prizes  in  New  York,  Cleveland  and  Columbus 


WRITE  FOR  PRICES 


14 


Are  You  Insured? 

If  you  are  insured  with  the  McCRAY  INSURANCF.  AGENCY  you  are  all  rijiht,  for  it  is  the 
OLDEST  and  STRONG  ESI"  agency  o{  the  Hocking  Valley.  If  you  are  not  insured  with  this 
agency  you  may  not  be  all  right.  Better  investigate.  NONE  BUT  THE  BEST  COM- 
PANIES REPRESENTED  BY  THIS  AGENCY,  thereby  securing  for  customers  safe 
protection.  All  losses  satisfactorily  adjusted.  Rates  right  for  reliable  insurance.  If  you  are 
not  insured  protect  your  interests  by  insuring  with  the 

McCray  Insurance  Agency  of  Logan,  Ohio 

All  kinds  of   insurance  written.     Call  or  write  us  or  our  representative   MR.  J.  C.  FAINE 
OflSce,  No.  79  South  Side  of  Main  Street,  Logan,  Ohio 


BINDING 


Have  your  magazines  and  books  bound  into  neat  volumes. 
We  do  binding  of  any  description  and  the  price  is  oh!  so 
reasonable. 


PRINTING 


We  are  general  printers  and  can  surely  please  you.     Any- 
thing  from    a    label   to   a  poster.     Let  us   figure   with  you 

The  Journal-Gazette  Pub.  Go. 

Printers  and  Binders 

JAS.  A.  OLIVER 

Furniture  and  Undertaking 

Livery  and  Feed  Stable 
Ambulance  Service  in  Connection 


•103  W.  Main  St. 


Both  Phones 

15 


LOGAN,  O. 


V5 


eeley 


ONLY 

GENUINE 

IN 

OHIO. 


ure 


Alcoholism       (Uquor  HabiO 

Morphine  Using  oiVafc 

NeUreSthenia      (Nerve  Exhaostlon) 

Tobacco  Habit   iL'Sr 


The  Only  Keeley  Cure  in  Ohio 


Treatment 
Confined  to 


ALCOHOLISM  (Liquor  Habit) 
MORPHINE  USING  (and  other  Drug  Habits) 
TOBACCO  HABIT  (and  Cigarette  Smoking) 
NEURESTHENIA  (Nerve  Exhaustion) 


Booklet  and  Information  Free.      Correspondence  Solicited. 


CHAS.  R.  CORNELL,  Manager 

Box  5  Station  A,  or  1087  Dennison  Avenue,  COLUMBUS,  OHIO 

16 


Recipes  From  the  Old 
Country  and  the  New 


ijj 


Collected  and  Published  for  the  Benefit  of 

The  New  Straitsville  Social 
and  Athletic  Club 

by  the  Secretary 

Maria  E.  Martin 

New   Straitsville,   Ohio 


1910 


Columbus,  Ohio 

The  F.  J.   Heer  Printing  Co. 

1910 


<^'v\V 


Copyright  1910 

BY 

MARIA   E,   MARTIN. 


©C(,A2712il 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE. 

Drinks   21 

Bread  and  Breakfast  Foods 24 

Soups   4(1 

Soup   Garnishings  and   Forcemeats 5') 

Fish   50 

Meats  71 

Fowls    93 

Sauces  for  Meats,  Fish  and  Vegetables !)!) 

Vegetables    107 

Salads  1:5(1 

Salad  Dressings   187 

Eges  and  Cheese 140 

Sandwiches   147 

Puddings  and  Desserts 152 

Pudding  Sauces   184 

Pastry  189 

Cakes    204 

Cake  Icings  and  Fillings 238 

Ice  Creams,  Sherbets,  Etc 242 

Candies    250 

Fruits  261 

Canned  Fruits  and  X'egetables   265 

Fruit  Jellies 260 

Preserves,  Jams  and  Syrups 272 

Pickles,    Catsups   and    Vinegars 280 

Monie  Made  Wines  and  Liquors 291 

(^iruels  and   Drinks  for  Invalids 295 

( )(Ids  and  Ends   300 

Iseful  Hints  in  Housekeeping 306 

Weights  and  Measures 308 

Common  Poisons  and  their  Antidotes 309 

19 


DRINKS. 


AFTER   DINNER   COFFEE. 

Filippini. 

Put  0  light  tablespoons  freshly  ground  coffee  in  an  enameled 
sauce-pan,  sprinkle  }  cup  cold  fresh  water  over  it,  cover  and  let 
stand  in  a  cold  place  20  minutes.  Pour  over  it  U  pints  cold  water, 
mix  well,  and  set  on  the  side  of  the  fire  letting  come  very  slowly 
to  the  boiling  point  but  without  boiling.  Stir  a  few  times  only 
while  heating  and  immediately  replace  the  cover.  Remove  from 
fire,  let  settle  a  moment,  and  strain  through  a  cloth  into  a  hot 
serving  coffee  pot.     Will  make  6  small  cups. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Melt  4  ounces  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  and  1  quart  milk ;  stir  till  smooth ;  let  boil  5  minutes  or 
longer;  when  ready,  beat  until  perfectly  smooth  with  an  egg  beater; 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CLARET  PUNCH. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Sherman. 

Take  the  yellow  rind  of  3  lemons,  add  it  to  3  pounds  granulated 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  ground  cinnamon.  ^  tablespoon  ground  cloves 
and  2  grated  nutmegs.  Pour  over  all  2  quarts  boiling  water,  and 
let  stand  J  hour.  The  spices  should  be  put  in  a  thin  bag.  Just 
before  serving,  add  J  pint  Jamaica  rum  and  3  bottles  of  claret. 
Add  3  or  4  sliced  oranges. 

COCOA. 

Moisten  4  tablespoons  cocoa  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  add  it 
to   1  quart  boiling  milk;   stir  and  bdil  about  5  minutes. 

COFFEE. 

The  best  coffee  is  made  by  both  browning  and  grinding  just 
before  it  is  needed ;  allow  1  heaping  tablespoon  to  each  person  and 
1  to  the  pot,  mix  with  a  little  white  of  egg  in  cold  water,  and  pour 
over  it  1  cup  for  each  person  of  freshly  boiling  water;  let  simmer 
5  minutes  and  serve. 

For  Cafe  au  Lait  pour  into  a  cup  at  the  same  time  equal  quan- 
tities of  scalding  coffee  and  scalding  milk. 

Vienna  coffee  is  served  with  whipped  cream. 

21 


22  OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CURRANT  SHRUB. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  currant  juice  and  water,  sprinkle  with 
grated  nutmeg,  and  chill. 

Raspberr}'  Shrub  is  made  in  the  same  way  but  requires  a  little 
lemon  instead  of  nutmeg. 

EGG  NOG,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Hugh    Ewing. 

12  eggs,  1  quart  milk,  J  pint  cream,  §  pint  French  brandy,  a 
little  Jamaica  spirits,  1   large  teacupful  sugar. 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar,  pour  the  liquor  on  slowly  and 
let  stand  some  hours.  Add  the  milk  and  cream,  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  stiff,  stir  some  in  and  put  a  little  on  top. 

EGG  NOG,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Herbert    Evans. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  2  tablespoons  sugar,-  stir  in  2 
tablespoons  brandy,  put  in  a  large  glass  and  fill  up  with  milk. 
Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  stiff  and  stir  in  last. 

FRUIT  PUNCH. 

Mrs.    Anise    Holcoinb. 

I')oil  4  cups  sugar  in  2  quarts  water  for  10  minutes  ;  cool  and 
add  1  gallon  cold  water;  add  the  strained  juice  of  6  oranges  and 
1  dozen  lemons,  and  1  can  grated  pineapple.  Serve  with  cracked 
ice.  Slices  of  oranges  and  lemons  and  a  little  tart  jelly  may  be 
added,  if  liked. 

ICED  TEA  OR  COFFEE. 

Fill  the  glasses  with  cracked  ice,  and  jiour  over  it  scalding  hot 
tea  or  coffee.  Tea  may  be  served  with  sugar  and  slices  of  lemon, 
and  coffee  with  sugar  and  whipped  cream.  These  drinks  may  be 
made  with  cold  tea  or  coffee,  but  lose  much  of  their  flavor. 

LEMONADE,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.    Katie    Callahan. 

Roll  6  lemons  and  slice  thin  ;  sprinkle  over  them  2  cups  white 
sugar  and  let  stand  15  minutes.  Pour  over  them  1  gallon  water, 
and  add  a  lump  of  ice. 

LEMONADE,  NO.  2. 

Allow  2  large  juicy  lemons  for  each  quart  water:  shave  off 
the  thin  yellow  rind,  put  it  in  the  pitcher  with  2  tablespoons  sugar 
to  each  lemon  and  mash  the  peel  into  the  sugar;  roll  the  lemons 
and  squeeze  the  juice  into  the  pitcher  without  the  seeds;  pour 
over  1  quart  boiling  water  and  set  awav  to  cool ;  ice  and  serve. 
Or  pour  cold  water  over,  and  stir  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then 
serve. 

Orangeade  is  made  in  the  same  way  using  less  water. 


DRINKS.  23 

MINT  GINGER  ALE. 

Put  1  cup  grauulated  sugar  with  the  juice  of  6  lemons  in  a 
bowl;  when  dissolved,  add  6  stalks  of  mint  bruised;  half  fill  with 
crushed  ice,  put  in  2  bottles  ginger  ale ;  stir  till  very  cold,  and 
serve. 

TEA. 

Scald  the  teapot  letting  it  get  quite  hot ;  put  in  the  tea,  1  tea- 
spoon to  each  person  and  1  to  the  pot,  and  at  once  pour  over  it  \ 
the  proper  amount  of  boiling  w'ater,  let  draw  a  few  minutes,  fill 
up  with  boiling  water  and  serve. 

Russian  tea  is  served  with  a  slice  of  lemon  in  each  cup. 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS. 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS. 

Mrs.    Lawrence    Walters. 

For  1  quart  flour,  take  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon 
lard,  a  little  salt,  and  1  pint  buttermilk.  Mix  and  knead  quickly, 
using  the.  hand  instead  of  the  rolling  pin  to  flatten  the  dough. 
Cut  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BERRY  CORNCAKE. 

Mrs.   T.   A.    Campbell. 

Mix  2  cups  cornmeal,  1  cup  flour,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  2  eggs, 
i  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  1  pint  sour  milk,  1  cup  of  any 
kind  of  berries.     Bake  till  a  nice  brown. 

BOSTON   BROWN  BREAD. 

Mrs.    Sam    Davis. 

Mix  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  cornmeal,  3  cups  brown  flour,  1 
tup  sour  milk,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  salt  to  taste.  Steam  3  hours ; 
bake  1  hour. 

BREAD. 

A. 

Boil  2  small  potatoes  at  noon  ;  when  well  done,  drain  and 
mash,  pouring  the  water  back  on  them ;  when  lukewarm,  add  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  salt,  and  1  cake  yeast  foam ;  let 
stand  in  a  warm  place  till  time  to  set  sponge  in  the  evening,  then 
take  6  pints  warm  water,  and  stir  into  it  2  sifters  of  flour  and 
the  yeast.  Let  rise  over  night:  in  the  morning  take  2  sifters  flour, 
put  in  the  bread  pan,  add  -\  cup  salt,  pour  in  the  sponge,  and  mix 
with  water  enough  to  knead  to  a  soft  dough  ;  cover  and  let  rise 
in  a  warm  place  till  very  light ;  knead  and  let  rise  again ;  then 
knead  into  4  loaves,  put  in  pans,  let  rise  again,  and  bake  1  hour. 
The  surface  of  the  dough  should  be  greased  with  butter  or  lard 
each  time  it  is  left  to  rise. 

BREAD  MUFFINS. 

Mrs.    John    E.    Williams. 

Make  a  setting  as  of  bread  at  night  with  \  cake  yeast.  In 
the  morning  mix  the  yeast,  1  beaten  egg,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
a  little  salt,  1  pint  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough  ; 
let  rise  once  and  roll  out  as  thin  as  for  biscuit,  cut  with  a  biscuit 
cutter,  double  together,  let  rise  vcr\-  light,  and  bake, 

24 


BREAD   AXD    BREAKFAST  FOODS.  25 

BROWN  BREAD,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.   John    E.   Brown. 

Mix  5  cups  graham  flour,  3  cups  buttermilk,  2  teaspoons  soda, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  cup  molasses,  and  J  cup  brown  sugar.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  1  hour. 

BROWN  BREAD,  XO.  2. 

.J  cup  corn  meal,  1  cup  white  flour,  1  cup  molasses,  2  cups 
graham  flour,  |  pound  seeded  raisins,  1  pint  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon 
soda.  Put  into  four  1-pound  baking  powder  cans,  perforate  the 
lids,  and   steam  2  hours. 

BROWN   SCONES. 

Heat  1  pint  good  cream,  and  as  it  gets  hot  dredge  in  brown 
flour  until  it  makes  a  thick  paste,  season  with  salt;  keep  stirring 
till  smooth.  Turn  out  on  a  floured  board,  roll  \  inch  thick,  cut  in 
rounds  and  bake  oil  a  hot  griddle,  turning  and  baking  both  sides 
brown,  but  not  scorched.  If  not  crisp,  put  in  the  oven  to  dry  out. 
Scones  made  with  white  flour  should  be  served  hot  but  not  crisp. 

BUCKWHEAT    CAKES. 

Beat  3=1  cups  buckwlicat  flour  and  1  teaspoon  salt  in  a  jar  until 
smooth  with  1  quart  cold  water;  add  ^  an  yeast  cake  and  mix; 
cover  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  Dissolve  J  tea- 
spoon soda  in  2  tablespoons  boiling  water,  add  to  the  batter  with 
1  tablespoon  sugar ;  beat,  and  bake.  One  cup  wheat  flour  is  an 
improvement  instead  of  as  much  buckwheat.  1  cup  of  batter  may 
be  saved  each  day  to  start  the  cakes  instead  of  fresh  yeast,  if 
made  often  enough. 

BUNS,   NO.   1. 

Mrs.    Pat.    Dougherty. 

Break  1  egg  into  a  cup  and  fill  up  with  sweet  milk;  mix  witli 
it  J  cup  yeast,  J  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  and  enough  flour  to  niake 
a  soft  dough.  Flavor  to  taste  with  grated  nutmeg.  Let  rise  till 
very  light,  then  stir  in  a  few  dried  currants  cleaned,  mould  into 
biscuits,  let  rise  a  second  time  in  the  pan,  and  bake.  When  nearly 
done,  glaze  with  a  little  molasses  and  milk. 

BUNS,  NO.   2. 

Mrs.   Rose    Call. 

Boil  1  quart  sweet  milk  and  let  cool.  Soak  1  cake  yeast  in 
a  cup  of  warm  water.  Mix  together  1  cup  lard,  1  cup  sugar,  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stifle 
batter,  the  milk  and  lastly  the  yeast.  Let  stand  over  night.  Then 
add  a  little  salt,  and  mix  as  bread.  Make  into  small  rolls  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 


26  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

BUNS,   NO.  3. 

Mrs.  Wm.   Breeze. 

Boil  3  small  potatoes  in  U-  pints  water,  and  mash  fine.  When 
lukewarm,  add  I  cake  yeast  foam,  and  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Let 
rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  take  1  pint  of  this  yeast,  1  pint 
water,  i  pint  sugar,  and  ^  pint  lard  (part  butter,  if  you  have  it), 
a  small  handful  of  salt;  rub  lard  in  flour,  and  mix  till  stifif.  Let 
rise  till  light,  about  4  hours  ;  make  into  40  buns,  and  place  2  inches 
apart ;  let  rise  till  4  or  5  times  their  natural  size  ;  then  bake  in  a 
rather  quick  oven. 

(BATH)   BUNS. 

Scald  1  pint  milk,  add  1  cup  butter,  let  cool  till  only  lukewarm, 
then  add  ^  cup  yeast  and  3  pints  sifted  flour;  let  stand  over  night 
in  a  warm  place.  Beat  ^  cup  sugar  with  yolks  of  6  eggs,  work 
into  the  sponge  with  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  J  cup  chopped  citron, 
and  .J-  cup  currants.  Work  in  well  with  the  hands,  and  add  flour 
enough  to  roll  out.  Cut  with  a  round  cutter,  put  in  greased  pans, 
cover,  and  when  very  light  bake  in  a  quick  oven  35  minutes. 

BUTTERMILK  BISCUITS. 

Mrs.     Alta     Hoskins. 

Sift  1  scant  teaspoon  soda  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  in 
1  quart  flour;  add  2  tablespoons  lard,  1  pint  buttermilk,  and  a  little 
salt.     Mix  very  soft,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

Miss  Joanna    S.   Holleran. 

Take  1  quart  light  bread  dough,  mix  with  1  cup  sugar  and  1 
tablespoon  lard ;  roll  ^  inch  thick ;  spread  with  butter,  sugar  and 
cinnamon;  roll  as  a  jelly  roll;  cut  slices  1  inch  wide,  let  rise,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

COFFEE   CAKE,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.   J.   W.   Evans. 

Take  1  cup  bread  dough  ;  add  2  tablespoons  soft  butter,  1  egg, 
1  tablespoon  sugar,  i  cup  currants.  Beat  and  make  into  a  soft 
loaf ;  let  rise,  roll  out  1  inch  thick,  let  rise  again  and  bake.  When 
done  spread  the  top  with  1  tablespoon  milk  and  2  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  and  put  back  to  brown. 

COFFEE  CAKE,   NO.  2. 

Soak  I  cake  compressed  yeast  in  ^  cup  lukewarm  milk  ;  when 
dissolved  add  }  teaspoon  sugar,  and  1  saltspoon  salt,  then  a  large 
half-cup  of  sifted  flour;  mix  thoroughly,  cover  and  put  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  for  several  hours.  When  ready,  cream  in  a  large 
bowl  i"  cup  sugar  and  3  ounces  butter,  with  the  grated  rind  of 
half  a  lemon   or  orange;   then  beat  in   1^  eggs  until   light,  k  cup 


BREAD   AND    BREAKFAST   FOODS.  27 

milk,  \  teaspoon  salt,  and  2\  or  3  cups  flour.  When  smooth  and 
light  stir  in  the  risen  dough,  and  knead  well  for  10  minutes.  Cover 
and  let  rise  several  hours  or  all  night.  Roll  small  portions  out 
the  desired  size,  and  put  in  buttered  pans.  When  light  again, 
spread  melted  butter  evenly  on  top,  dredge  thickly  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon,  and,  if  wanted,  finely  chopped  nuts,  and  bake  till  a  light 
brown. 

CONTINENTAL  WAFFLES. 

Mrs.  Frank  Grandy. 

Beat  4  eggs  separately;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  I  pint  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon sugar,  1  teaspoon  butter,  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
with  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Bake  on  a  hot,  greased 
waffle   iron. 

CORN  BATTER  BREAD. 

Miss  Fillie   Welton. 

1  quart  fresh  buttermilk,  1  scant  cup  cornmeal,  3  eggs,  1  small 
teaspoon  soda,  butter  or  lard  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt.  Bake 
quickly   in   a   deep   pan. 

CORN  BREAD,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    J.    W.    Holleran. 

Sift  1  quart  of  cornmeal  well  with  1  cup  flour;  work  in  a  large 
tablespoon  lard,  anfl  2  tablespoons  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  1  well  beaten 
egg,  and  2  cups  sour  milk. 

CORN   BREAD,  NO.  2. 

M.    E.    Kendall. 

Add  1  teaspoon  soda  to  1  quart  buttermilk,  then  2  well  beaten 
eggs,  and  1  teaspoon  salt,  lastly  1  quart  corn  meal.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  in  shallow  pans. 

CORN  CAKES. 

Mrs.    John    M.    Stone. 

Mix  1^  cups  corn  meal  with  1  cup  flour,  1  egg,  2  tablespoons 
lard,  \  teaspoon  soda  in  the  flour,  1  tablespoon  syrup,  a  good  pinch 
of  salt,  and  \\  cups  milk.  Plrst  scald  the  corn  meal  with  a  little 
boiling  water.     Bake  on  a  griddle. 

CORN  DODGERS. 

Filippini. 

Put  1  pint  milk  in  a  saucepan  with  3  saltspoons  salt,  and  as 
soon  as  it  comes  to  a  Iioil,  scatter  over  it  slowly  J-  pound  cornmeal, 
stirring  briskly.  Let  boil  6  minutes,  stirring  from  the  bottom  occa- 
sionally. Mix  in  1  ounce  butter,  1  egg  yolk,  and  a  pinch  grated 
nutmeg,  turn  into  a  dish  to  cool.  Divide  into  12  equal  parts,  put 
in  a  buttered  pan  in  oval  shapes,  baste  with  a  little  butter,  and 
set  in  a  slow  oven  for  20  minutes.  Take  up,  split  half  open,  spread 
butter  inside,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  in  a  napkin. 


28  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CORNMEAL   FLAPJACKS. 

Marion   Harland. 

Alix  1  quart  buttermilk  or  sour  milk  with  2  eggs  beaten  light, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  hot  water,  2  tablespoons  mo- 
lasses, 1  tablespoon  melted  lard,  i  cup  flour,  and  enough  cornmeal 
to  make  a  batter  a  trifle  thicker  than  for  flannel  cakes.  Bake  on 
a   griddle. 

CORNMEAL  MUSH. 

Mix  ^  teaspoon  salt  with  J  cup  cornmeal ;  sprinkle  it  over  1 
cup  boiling  water  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  very  hard  till  smooth  ; 
add  f  cup  milk,  and  cook  3  hours,  replenishing  the  boiling  water 
in  the  under  kettle  as  needed.  Serve  hot  with  sugar  and  cream  or 
milk. 

Cold  nuish  may  lie  cut  into  tl:in  slices  and  fried  brown  in  a 
little  butter  or  dripping. 

CORNMEAL    PONE. 

Marion  Harland. 

Mix  1  quart  cornmeal  with  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  melted  lard, 
and  cold  water  enough  for  a  soft  dough.  Mould  with  the  hands 
into  thin  oblong  cakes,  lay  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  very  quickly. 

An  ash  cake  is  a  pone  laid  on  the  hot  hearth,  covered  with  hot 
ashes,  and  baked. 

CORN    PONE. 

Mrs.     Robert     Sines. 

Mix  together  1  pint  milk,  l.V  pints  cornmeal,  3  eggs  beaten 
well,  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  1  cup  }cast.  Set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  When  light,  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  ].5  minutes  in  a 
moderate   oven. 

CREAM  BISCUIT. 

1  pint  thick  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda  and  1  teaspoon  cream 
tartar  sifted  in  the  flour ;  stir  in  quickly  enough  flour  to  roll  out, 
cut  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CREAM  TOAST. 

Mrs.   John  Achauer. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  toast,  pour  enough  boiling  water  over  them 
to  soften,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  3  table- 
spoons cream  to  each  person. 

CRUMB  CAKES,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Forest   Alexander. 

Soak  pieces  of  dry  bread  in  water  till  soft,  squeeze  and  mash 
fine ;  to  2  pints  pulp,  take  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  butter, 
|-  teaspoon  salt,  I  teaspoon  soda  in  a  cup  hot  milk,  and  wheat 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.     Bake  on  a  greased  griddle. 


BREAD   AXD    BREAKFAST  FOODS.  29 

CRUMB  CAKES,  NO.  2. 

Prepare  a  hatter  for  flannel  cakes.  Brown  3  tablespoons  bread- 
cruniijs  in  butter,  drain,  and  adtl  to  the  batter.     Bake  as  usual. 

CRUMPETS. 

Mrs.    RortT. 

Scald  1  pint  milk,  and  let  it  stand  until  lukewarm  ;  then  add 
1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  about  3  cups  flour;  beat  vigorously;  then 
add  4  ounces  butter  melted,  and  1  cup  yeast;  beat  again;  cover 
and  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  very  light.  Grease  muffin  rings 
and  place  them  on  a  hot  griddle.  Fill  each  ring  half  full  of  the 
batter ;  bake  until  brown  on  one  side,  then  turn  and  brown  on 
the  other.  May  be  eaten  fresh  with  lauttcr ;  or  when  cool  may 
be  toasted  on  both  sides,  buttered  nicely  and  served  on  a  hot  plate. 

CURRANT  BREAD. 

Mrs.    Peter    Pierce. 

Sift  together  3  quarts  flour,  2  tablespoons  salt  and  3  cups 
sugar ;  add  1  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and 
allspice,  1  box  currants  and  1  box  seeded  raisins.  Make  a  sponge 
as  for  light  bread,  and  set  to  rise  in  the  morning.  At  night  mix 
in  the  dry  ingredients,  J  pound  lard,  and  3  eggs.  Let  rise  over 
night.  Knead  well  and  let  rise  again.  Knead  again,  make  into 
loaves,  let  rise,  and  bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Tf  kept  in 
a  damp  place,   will  keep  fresh  a  long  time. 

DATE  ROLLS. 

When  light  bread  is  ready  to  be  made  into  loaves,  roll  a  piece 
1  inch  thick,  spread  with  butter,  then  with  chopped  dates,  or  tigs, 
or  both,  roll  up  the  dough,  slice  crosswise  i  inch  thick,  lay  in  a 
well  greased  pan,  let  rise,  and  bake  in   a  moderate  oven. 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS. 

Scald  1  pint  milk,  add  1  ounce  butter,  and  stand  to  one  side 
till  hike  warm;  then  add  ^  cup  yeast  (or  J  a  compressed  cake), 
3  cups  flour  and  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Beat  continuously  for  5 
minutes ;  cover  with  a  ^wel  and  stand  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise  about  2  hours.  When  light  add  enough  flour  for  a  soft 
(lough;  work  lightly  with  the  hand;  divide  into  small  cakes,  place 
each  cake  in  a  greased  muffin  ring,  cover  and  let  rise  again.  Then 
bake  on  a  hot  griddle  in  the  rings,  until  a  nice  brown.  When 
done  break  them  open,  butter  and  serve  immediately. 

ENGLISH  TEA  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Fletcher. 

Take  enough  light  bread  dough  for  a  small  loaf ;  mix  with 
it  1  tablespoon  lard,  1  of  sugar,  and  one  large  tablespoon  currants. 
Let  rise  again  till  very  light,  then  bake.  Cut  into  round  slices 
and  toast  them,  buttering  while  hot. 


30  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

ENGLISH  TEA  CAKES. 

Mrs.    Wm.     Carmichael. 

2  ounces  butter,  2  ounces  lard,  2  pounds  flour,  1  pint  milk, 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  6  ounces  currants,  2  ounces  lemon  peel, 
2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  cakes  yeast. 

Mix  flour  and  salt  in  a  warm  dish  and  make  a  hole  in  the 
centre.  Soak  the  yeast  and  stir  the  sugar  into  it.  Melt  the 
butter  and  lard  in  a  pan,  and  add  the  milk  lukewarm.  Pour  these 
into  the  yeast,  and  stir  all  into  the  flour  with  the  eggs  well  be'aten. 
Add  the  fruit  and  mix  all  together  with  the  hand  till  a  soft  dough. 
Set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  divide  into  small  cakes 
about  the  size  of  a  pie  plate,  half  an  inch  thick.  Set  these  to  rise 
in  a  warm  place  from  20  minutes  to  a  half  hour.  Bake  in  a  rather 
hot  oven  20  minutes.  When  taken  from  the  oven  rub  butter  over 
the  top  to  glaze. 

FLANNEL  CAKES. 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  flour  enough 
for  a  good  batter ;  lastly  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
water,  a  little  salt  and  the  whites  of  egg.  Bake  immediately  on  a 
Iiot  griddle. 

Rice  flour  may  be  used  instead  of  wlieat  flour  in  the  batter. 
Buttermilk  or  sour  milk  is  an  improvement. 

FRENCH  TOAST. 

Mrs.  Gomer  Tliomas. 

Take  2  eggs,  \  cup  milk,  flour  enough  for  a  thick  batter, 
salt  and  pepper.  Cut  stale  bread  into  thin  slices;  dip  in  the 
batter  and  fry  in  a  skillet  with  a  little  butter.  Serve  hot  with 
pot  roasts  or  alone  as  a  breakfast  dish.  The  flour  may  be  omitted 
if  desired. 

FRENCH  TWISTS. 

To  1  quart  warm  milk  add  1  coffee  cupful  of  potato  yeast,  a 
little  salt,  and  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter.  Let  it  rise;  when 
very  light,  work  in  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  egg  and  flour  enougli 
to  roll.  Cut  in  strips,  braid  and  let  rise  again.  When  light,  hake 
on   buttered   tins    \   hour. 

FROISE,  NO.  L 

Mrs.    Richard    Johnson. 

Beat  3  eggs  together  till  very  light,  add  1  quart  melted  snow 
water  and  flour  enough  for  a  very  thin  batter.  Bake  on  a  greased 
skillet,  each  cake  the  size  of  the  skillet.  Sprinkle  with  cleaned 
and  swelled  currants,  and  when  brown  on  the  first  side,  turn  and 
brown  the  other.  Pile  on  a  plate  till  all  are  done,  sprinkling 
each  with  sugar,  and  spreading  first  with  butter  or  not  according 
to  taste.     Serve  at  once,  cutting  in  pieces  as  if  serving  cake. 


BREAD   AXD    BREAKFAST   FOODS.  31 

FROISE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    D.    D.    Richai-ds. 

Take  2  cups  flour,  sift  with  J  cup  sugar,  add  2  well  beaten 
eggs  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  very  thin  batter.  Bake  and  serve 
as  in  Froise,  No.  1. 

GEMS. 

Mrs.    John     McGrath. 

Sift  together  1  pint  flour,  1|  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Beat  two  eggs  well  and  add  to  the  flour  with  2 
tablespoons  melted  butter  and  I  cup  milk.  Bake  in  gem  pans  15 
minutes. 

GERMAN  COFFEE  CAKE. 

Mrs.   Peter   Kramer. 

Take  a  handful  bread  dough  when  ready  for  loaves;  work  in 
1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  nearly  1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
and  1  of  mixed  spices,  and  2  teaspoons  strong  coffee;  let  rise 
again;  then  roll  out  not  so  thin  as  pic  paste,  put  in  a  dripping  pan, 
let  rise  again,  sprinkle  well  with  cinnamon,  sugar  and  bits  of 
butter,  and  bake. 

GERMAN  CRACKNELS. 

Set  a  sponge  at  night  with  i  cake  yeast,  i  cup  warm  milk,  1 
teaspoon  caraway  seeds,  f  cup  sugar,  and  flour  enough  for  a  sponge. 
In  the  morning  knead  and  let  rise  3  times;  roll  the  dough  into 
little  balls  the  size  of  walnuts.  Let  rise  and  bake  a  little  more 
than  lialf  done;    split  and  bake  again. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Miss   Johanna    I'eeney. 

Set  a  sponge  at  night  as  for  white  bread.  In  the  morning  add 
to  the  dough  1  tablespoon  each  of  lard  and  molasses  and  4  small 
tablespoons  salt ;  use  graham  flour  to  mix  it  up.  Finish  as  with 
white  bread. 

GRAHAM  CAKES. 

Mrs.    James   Alvis. 

Beat  together  J  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  cup  sour  milk, 
^  teaspoon  soda,  and  enough  graham  flour  to  make  a  stiff  baf^^er. 
Bake  in  gem  pans. 

GRAHAM  GEMS,  NO.  L 

Miss   M.    D.   Jones. 

Take  1  cup  graham  and  I  cup  wheat  flour,  J  cup  sugar,  I  cup 
sour  milk,  1  well  l)caten  egg,  1  good  tablespoon  lard,  ^  teaspoon 
baking  powder  sifted  in  the  flour,  J  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  tlie 
milk,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.     Mix  all  together  and  bake  in  gem  pans 


32  OLD    COUNTRV   RECIPES   A.KD   KEli\ 

GRAHAM  GEMS,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Dick    Spicer. 

Mix  2  cups  sour  milk,  3  cups  graham  flour,  and  I  teaspoon 
soda  in  the  milk.  Beat  well  together,  drop  into  hot  buttered  gem 
pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven   10  or  15  minutes. 

GRAHAM  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Scald  IJ'  pints  milk  and  let  cool ;  beat  in  smoothly  S  quart 
graham  flour;  add  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt 
and  ^  cake  yeast ;  beat  well  and  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night. 
Add  3  beaten  egg  yolks,  then  3  beaten  whites,  let  stand  15  minutes, 
and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

GREEN  PEA  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Boil  and  mash  1  pint  green  peas,  stir  with  a  little  pepper,  1 
saltspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  pint  sweet  milk,  J  teaspoon 
soda,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  2  eggs  beaten  light,  about  2  cups 
flour,  or  enough  for  a  medium  batter.  When  mixed,  beat  hard  a 
few   minutes   before  baking. 

HOMINY. 

Put  1  cup  fine  hominy  in  a  double  boiler  with  1  teaspoon  salt 
and  5  cups  cold  water;  boil  3  hours,  replenishing  with  boiling 
water  if  necessary. 

HOMINY  MUFFINS. 

Marion     Harland. 

Beat  2  cups  fine  cold  boiled  hominy  till  smooth ;  stir  in  3  cups 
sour  milk,  then  J  cup  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  salt,  2  tablespoons 
white  sugar,  3  well  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  hot  water ;  lastly 
1  large  cup  flour.     Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

HONEY  CAKES. 

Place  1  cup  sifted  flour  in  a  bowl,  crack  in  2  eggs,  add  1  table- 
spoon honey,  i  ounce  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
1  saltspoon  salt,  half  as  much  grated  nutmeg,  and  I-  pint  milk. 
Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.     Bake  like  flannel   cakes. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS. 

Set  a  sponge  over  night  of  3  cups  sweet  milk,  1  cup  yeast,  and 
flour  for  a  thick  batter.  In  the  morning  add  1  cup  sugar,  J  cup 
melted  butter,  \  nutmeg,  1  saltspoon  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  roll 
out  like  biscuit.  Knead  well  and  set  to  rise  for  5  hours.  Roll  ^ 
inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  lay  in  a  buttered  baking  pan. 
Let  stand  ^  hour ;  then  make  a  cross  upon  each  with  a  knife,  and 
put  instantly  into  the  oven.  Bake  to  a  light  brown,  and  lirush 
over  with  white  of  egg  beaten  up  with  sugar. 


BREAD   AND   BREAKFAST   POODS.  33 

HOTEL    WATKINS    WAFFLES. 

Miss   Jennie    Johnson. 

Sift  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  with  1  quart  flour,  add  1 
teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  sugar,  and  mix  with  enough  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  thin  batter ;  beat  3  eggs  separately  and  add,  and  lastly 
2   tablespoons   melted  butter.      Bake   at   once   in   hot   waffle   irons. 

HUCKLEBERRY  TEACAKE. 

Beat  ^  cup  sugar  with  1  egg,  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
soda  in  2  cups  sour  milk,  1  cup  berries  and  flour  for  a  stiff  dough. 
Bake   and   eat   hot   with   butter. 

JOHNNY  CAKE: 

Marion   Harland. 

Take  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  and  enough  corn  meal 
to  enable  you  to  roll  the  dough  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick. 
Spread  on  a  buttered  tin  or  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  bake  40  minutes. 
As  soon  as  it  begins  to  brown,  baste  it  with  a  rag  tied  to  a  stick 
and  dipped  in  melted  butter.  Repeat  5  or  6  times  till  brown  and 
crisp.  Break,  not  cut  it  up,  and  serve  with  buttermilk.  It  may  be 
baked  on  a  board  before  a  hot  fire. 

JOHNNY  CAKE.     (1776.) 

Add  1  teaspoon  salt  to  1  quart  cornmeal  and  scald  well  with 
boiling  water.  Pour  in  a  skillet  to  the  depth  of  ^  inch.  Bake 
brown  on  both  sides,  take  up  and  cut  in  squares  for  the  table. 
Baked  on  a  hoe  before  a  fire,  this  becomes  a  "hoe  cake." 

JOLLY  BOYS. 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  egg  beaten  light,  2  tablespoons  molasses, 
a  small  ^  teaspoon  soda,  a  pinch  salt,  rye  meal,  corn  meal.  Put  tlie 
soda  in  the  milk,  add  the  molasses  and  the  rye  meal  till  a  thin 
batter;  add  salt  and  cornmeal  till  a  stiff  batter;  lastly  the  egg. 
Drop  by  half  tablespoons  into  deep  boiling  fat,  and  fry  like 
doughnuts.     Serve  with   a   light  hard   sauce. 

KENTUCKY  CORN  DODGERS. 

Mix  1  pint  sifted  cornmeal,  1  heaping  tablespoon  lard,  1  pinch 
of  salt  and  a  scant  cup  of  cold  water.  Heat  a  griddle,  grease  it 
and  sprinkle  meal  over  it.  Make  the  dough  into  goose  eggs,  drop 
on  the  griddle,  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  till  brown  on  the  bottom, 
then  put  on  the  shelf  and  brown  on  top,  20  to  30  minutes  in  all. 
Serve  hot  with  butter. 

3 


34  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

LAPLAND   CAKES    OR   POPOVERS. 

"Aunt    Clara." 

1  quart  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  quart  flour,  a  small  lump  of 
butter,  3  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs  together,  adding  salt,  milk  and 
melted  butter.  Stir  gradually  into  the  flour  avoiding  any  lumps. 
Grease  muffin  pans  and  put  them  into  the  oven  to  get  smoking  hot. 
Fill  them  about  half  full,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  30  min- 
utes.    Serve  at  once. 

LIGHT  ROLLS,  NO.  L 

Mrs.  Peter  Harrington. 

Beat  2  eggs  well,  add  1  pint  warm  milk  and  1  cake  yeast; 
let  rise  as  if  for  bread.  When  light,  add  |-  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sugar, 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough  as  for  bread;  when  light 
again,   make  into   rolls,  let   rise  and  bake. 

LIGHT  ROLLS,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Thompson. 

Make  a  setting  with  yeast  at  night  as  for  bread  with  J  an 
yeast  cake.  In  the  morning,  knead  in  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  |  cup 
lard,  and  let  rise  3  or  4  times.  The  last  time  make  into  small  rolls, 
and  let  rise  well.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  }  hour. 

MARYLAND   BISCUIT. 

3  pints  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  salt,  6  ounces  lard,  S  pint  cold 
water.  Knead  well,  then  pound  until  the  dough  blisters,  at  least 
i  hour.  Mould  into  small  biscuits,  and  bake  immediately  in  a 
quick  oven. 

MOCHA   MUFFINS. 

Cream  1  tablespoon  sugar  with  2  of  butter,  and  1  well  beaten 
egg.  Stir  in  i  cup  milk  and  1  cup  strong  cofifee,  and  add  alternately 
H  cups  flour  sifted  with  lA  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  J  tea- 
spoon salt.  Lastly  beat  in  1  cup  cooked  oatmeal,  and  bake  20 
minutes  in   hot   buttered  gem  pans. 

MUFFINS,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    O.    O.    Cherrington. 

Sift  two  level  teaspoons  baking  powder  with  1  pint  flour 
and  I-  teaspoon  salt ;  stir  in  2  tablespoons  sugar  beaten  up  with 
3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  and  i  egg;  add  f  cup  sweet  milk; 
bake  in  gem  pans. 

MUFFINS,  NO.  2. 

Miss    Mary    Sweeney. 

Sift  together  1  quart  flour,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
and  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder ;  add  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  1  pint  milk,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  ;  stir  all  together 
and  lastly  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in 
muffin   pans  in   a   hot   oven   15   minutes. 


BREAD   AND   BREAKFAST   FOODS.  35 

NORWEGIAN   BREAD. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Scald  1  pint  milk  and  let  stand  till  lukewarm  ;  add  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  cup  \east  (or  half  a  cake),  mix,  add  1  pint  barley  meal, 
I  pint  graham  flour,  h  pint  wheat  flour,  beat  hard  for  10  minutes, 
turn  into  a  greased  bread  pan,  cover  with  paper  and  stand  in  a 
warm  place  till  very  light  and  full  of  bubbles;  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  40  minutes. 

OATMEAL  BANNOCKS. 

Mrs.    Lincoln    Lloyd. 

Take  1  quart  oatmeal,  a  pinch  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little 
piece  of  lard  and  enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out 
about  h  inch  thick,   and   cut  and  bake  as   oatmeal   cakes. 

OATMEAL  BROSE. 

Mrs.    Robert    Ramage. 

Sprinkle  oatmeal  into  boiling  water  until  thick  enough.  Boil 
about  5  minutes,  stirring.  Add  salt  and  butter  to  taste,  and  when 
taken   from   the   fire,   stir  in  buttermilk  till  the  proper  consistency. 

OATMEAL   CAKES. 

Mrs.    Lincoln    Lloyd. 

Mix  1  quart  raw  oatmeal  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough 
water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  into  as  thin  a  sheet  as  possible, 
cut  into  small  triangles  and  bake  on  a  buttered  griddle.  Put  into 
the  oven  to  get  crisp.  In  Scotland  these  are  baked  on  a  very  large 
griddle   over   the   coals,   and   toasted   in    front  of   the   fire. 

OATMEAL  PORRIDGE. 

Boil  1  quart  salted  water  in  a  double  boiler,  stir  in  1  cup  oat- 
meal, stir  hard  for  a  moment,  and  let  boil  2  or  3  hours,  stirring 
occasionally.     Stir   till  (|uite   smooth  before  taking  up. 

POCKET  BOOK  ROLLS. 

Mrs.  James  Duflfy,  Jr. 

Take  part  of  the  bread  dough  after  working  it  up  in  the 
morning,  mix  with  it  i  cup  butter  and  ^  cup  sugar,  let  rise  again 
till  very  light ;  knead  again,  roll  out  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter, 
double   over,    let   rise   again    and    bake. 

PULLED  BREAD. 

Take  from  the  oven  an  ordinary  loaf  when  about  half  baked, 
and  wdiile  it  is  still  hot  pull  the  half  set  dough  into  pieces  about 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Do  not  smooth  or  shape  them.  Put  in  a  pan 
in  a  slow  oven  and  bake  a   rich   brown.     Serve  hot. 


36  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

RAISIN  BREAD. 

Miss    Ella    McGrady. 

Set  a  sponge  at  night  as  for  bread.  In  the  morning,  mix  the 
bread,  take  out  enough  for  2  loaves,  add  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  lard, 
spices  if  you  want  them,  1  egg,  1  box  seeded  raisins,  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  knead  and  let  rise  twice ;  the  third 
time  make  2  loaves,  and  bake  when  light  again.  Rub  milk  and 
sugar  on  the  tops  when  baked. 

RHODE   ISLAND   "SPAT-OUTS". 

1  pint  sweet  milk,  4  tablespoons  wheat  flour,  2  well  beaten 
eggs,  corn  meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  a  little  salt;  spat  into 
round  cakes  \  inch  thick,  fry  in  boiling  lard  like  doughnuts,  split 
and  eat  warm  with  butter. 

RICE  BREAD. 

Beat  3  eggs  together  until  very  light,  then  add  1}  pints  milk ; 
2  cups  white  cornmeal,  1  cup  boiled  rice,  1  ounce  melted  butter, 
and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  thoroughly  and  mix  in  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Grease  3  round  shallow  pans,  pour  in 
the  mixture,  put  at  once  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  30  minutes.  Serve 
hot. 

RICE  CAKES. 

Beat  well  together  1  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  1  pint  flour,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  and  milk  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batter. 
Bake  on   a  griddle.     Cold   oatmeal   may  be   used   instead   of   rice. 

RICE  MUFFINS. 

Mrs.    Mary   McGrady. 

Take  1  coffee  cup  of  warm  boiled  rice,  add  J  tablespoon  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  butter  well  worked  in,  1  cup  milk  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Dissolve  i  or  J  an  yeast  cake  in  a  little  milk 
and  add  it  to  the  rice.  Let  rise  till  light.  Then  add  2  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  drop  into  well  buttered  pans.  Let  rise  again  till  very 
light.     Bake  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

RICE  WAFFLES. 

Heat  \l  cups  boiled  rice  with  1  pint  milk.  Mix  it  smooth, 
then  take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  and  a  teaspoon 
salt,  4  well  beaten  eggs,  and  enough  flour  for  a  stiff  batter. 

RYE  BREAD. 

Make  a  sponge  from  wheat  flour,  and  in  the  morning  add 
enough  rye  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  lightly ;  then 
form  into  loaves,  place  in  greased  breadpans,  cover  and  stand  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  again.  When  light  bake  as  white  bread.  It 
must  not  be  as  stiff  as  white  bread,  and  does  not  require  as 
much  kneading. 


BREAD   AND    BREAKFAST   FOODS.  37 

RYE  DROP  CAKES. 

To  3  cups  sour  milk  add  a  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  a  little 
salt,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  and  rye  meal  enough  for  a  thick  batter. 
Drop  into  hot  iron  gem  pans,  and  bake  about  20  minutes. 

SALLY  LUNN,  NO.  L 

Mrs.    Hugh    Ewing. 

3  pints  flour,  1  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  yeast,  3  eggs,  butter 
size  of  a  walnut.  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Melt  the  butter,  beat  all 
well  together,  put  in  a  buttered  tin  pan,  and  let  stand  all  night. 
Bake  whole,  slice   round  the   loaf   and  butter   for  breakfast. 

SALLY  LU-\'N,  NO.  2. 

Miss    IT.    r.    \'an    Meter. 

J  teacup  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  l}  pints  flour,  4  eggs  beaten 
separately,  1  pint  sweet  milk  or  cream,  2  even  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  "  Bake  about  1   hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SALT   RLSING  BREAD. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Add  to  1  pint  scalding  water  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick 
batter;  add  i  teaspoon  salt,  and  beat  until  smooth  and  full  of 
air  bubbles.  Cover  -closely,  stand  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  and 
keep  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning,  scald  1  pint 
milk,  stand  aside  until  lukewarm  :  add  1  teaspoon  salt  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Now  turn 
into  this  the  salt  rising  which  should  be  very  light  and  smell  un- 
pleasantlv ;  beat  thoroughly  for  3  minutes,  then  cover  with  a  towel, 
stand  in  pan  of  warm  water,  and  put  where  if  will  keep  warm 
until  verv  light  ("about  2  hours)  :  then  add  sufficient  flour  to  make 
dough;  knead  thoroughly  until  smooth  and  elastic,  divide  into 
loaves,  mould,  place  in  'greased  pans,  cover  with  a  towel,  and 
when  very  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (300°  F.)  one  hour.  It 
must  be  kept  much  warmer  than  an  yeast  bread  or  it  will  not 
rise. 

SNOW  FRITTERS. 

Mrs.    Edward   Call. 

Make  a  rather  thick  batter  of  milk,  flour  and  a  little  salt ;  add 
new  fallen  snow  in  the  proportion  of  1  cup  to  each  pint  of  milk; 
have  the  fat  hot  before  stirring  in  the  snow,  and  drop  the  batter 
into  it  with  a  spoon. 

SODA   BISCUITS. 

Mrs.    M.    J.    Stoddard. 

Sift  2  teaspoons  each  of  cream  tartar  and  salt,  and  1  teaspoon 
soda  with  2  sifters  flour;  rub  in  ^  cup  butter;  add  quickly  about 
1  pint  milk  or  water,  kneading  as  lightly  as  possible ;  roll  out  f  inch 
thick,  cut,  put  in  buttered  pans,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven.  Bake  20 
minutes. 


38  OLD   COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

SOUTHERN  CORN  MUFFINS. 

Mrs.    R.   J.    Wilson. 

Mix  1  pint  buttermilk  or  sour  cream,  1  beaten  egg,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  1  large  lump  of  lard  melted,  1  large  pinch  baking  powder, 
and  enough  sifted  cornnieal  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Bake  in  muffin 
tins. 

SPOON  CORNBREAD. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Pitzer. 

Beat  Up  one  &gg  in  the  baking  dish  you  mean  to  cook  it  in. 
Add  J^  pint  of  fresh  milk,  about  1  teaspoon  lard  or  butter  and  a 
little  salt.  Put  on  stove  and  let  it  get  hot  but  not  boil.  Then  stir 
in  J  cup  cornmeal  graduall\^  and  with  the  last  a  small  quantity 
baking  powder.  Put  at  once  into  the  oven  and  bake  20  minutes. 
Serve   with   a   spoon. 

SQUASH  BISCUITS. 

]\Irs.    T.    A.    Campbell. 

Take  1  cup  stewed  squash,  1  cup  sour  milk,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  a  little  salt  and  1  teaspoon  soda;  add 
flour  till  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.     Cut,  bake  and  serve  hot. 

TEA   BISCUITS,   NO.   1. 

"A   Friend  in  Need." 

Boil  1  quart  of  milk  ?>  minutes,  let  it  cool  and  add  h  cup  of 
yeast;  melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  walnut;  stir  it  in 
with  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  sponge;  let  it  rise  3  hours;  then 
roll  and  cut  out  the  biscuit.  Make  them  thinner  than  ordinary 
biscuit ;  spread  evenly  with  butter,  double  together ;  draw  out  to 
make  a  good  shape ;  let  rise  from  1-5  to  -30  minutes,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

TEA  BISCUITS,   NO.   2. 

Mrs.    Michael    Monahan. 

Sift  together  1  quart  flour.  1  teaspoon  each  sugar  and  salt, 
and  8  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Then  rub  in  1  tablespoon  lard, 
and  add  1  pint  of  either  sweet  milk  or  water,  or  both  mixed.  The 
dough  should  be  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  Flour  the  board  and 
roll  out,  cut  with  a  small  tin  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  good  hot  oven 
about  20  minutes. 

TEA  RUSKS,  NO.  1. 

Miss  H.  C.  Van  Meter. 

3  teacups  flour,  |  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  heaping  table- 
spoons butter  melted,  2  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

TEA  RUSKS,  NO.  2. 

IMrs.    B.    James. 

Dissolve  1  cake  compressed  veast  in  h  cup  lukewarm  water ; 
scald  1  pint  milk,  and  let  cool  till  lukewarm;  sift  3  cups  flour  in 
a  bowl,  add  the  milk,  strain  in  the  yeast,  beat  and  let  rise  till  very 


BREAD   AND   BREAKFAST   FOODS.  3  9 

light.  Cream  f  cup  sugar  with  h  cup  butter,  add  1  teaspoon  salt, 
and  as  much  either  cinnamon  or  lemon  extract ;  work  into  Lhe 
sponge  with  4  eggs,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Knead  and  set  to  rise  ;  when  very  light  roll  to  V  inch  in  thickness 
Cut  w-ith  a  biscuit  cutter,  let  rise  again  and  bake.  Powdered  or 
light  brown  sugar  preferable. 

VELVET  ROLLS. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Van  Meter. 

For  IJ  dozen  rolls  use  1  quart  flour,  2  taltlespoons  butter.  \ 
yeast  cake,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  whites  of  2  eggs,  a  generous  \  pint 
of  milk.  Boil  the  milk  and  add  the  butter  to  it.  Let  it  cool,  then 
add  the  sugar,  salt,  yeast,  and  the  well  beaten  whites  of  egg.  Sift 
the  flour  into  a  bowl  and  pour  the  mixture  upon  it,  stirring  with  a 
spoon  until  it  is  smooth.  Cover  closelv  and  let  rise  in  a  warm 
place  over  night.  In  the  morning  knead  afrain,  and  let  rise  until 
twice  its  size.  Make  into  rolls,  place  in  buttered  pans,  and  let 
rise  again  until  twice  their  size.     Bake  2')  minutes. 

WAFFLES,  NO.   1. 

1  pint  sweet  milk,  i  cup  l)iittermilk  or  clal)ber,  2  eggs  beaten 
separately,  U  pints  flour,  and  a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  small 
egg,  melted.  Beat  well  for  15  minutes.  Grease  the  irons,  fill  with 
the  batter  and  bake  quickly,  turninsf  the  irons.  Sour  milk  or  butter- 
milk will  do  without  any  sweet  milk. 

WAFFLES,  NO.  2. 

Add  2  ounces  of  melted  butter  to  1  pint  milk,  then  4  well 
beaten  eggs,  1  pound  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  4  tablespoons 
yeast.  Let  stand  until  light.  Pour  on  well  greased  waffle  irons, 
bake  on  both  sides  by  turning  the  irons:  and  serve  immediately. 

WHEATEN  GRITS. 

Put  1  pint  cold  water,  l  pint  milk  and  1  teaspoon  salt  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  J-  pound  wheaten  grits,  and  boil 
slowly  IJ  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Pour  in  a  hot  dish  and 
serve  with  cream  and  sugar.  If  served  cold,  it  makes  a  good 
dessert  for  children. 

WHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Mrs.    John    Cannon. 

Mix  1  pint  sour  milk,  1  egg,  a  little  salt,  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  and  flour  enough  to  make  the  right  consistency.  Beat  till 
very  smooth.     When  ready  to  use,  put  in  a  little  soda. 

WHOLE   WHEAT   BREAD. 

Set  a  sponge  at  night  as  for  white  bread.  In  the  morning 
work  it  up  with  whole  wheat  flour. 


SOUPS. 


SOUP   STOCK. 

Tlie  most  useful  stock  is  made  from  beef.  Soak  a  bone  with 
meat  on  in  plenty  of  cold  water  for  an  hour,  cover  and  boil  slowly 
4  or  5  hours  ;  add  the  common  soup  vegetables,  /.  c,  1  onion,  carrot 
and  turnip,  1  stalk  celery,  1  sprig  parsley,  a  bay  leaf,  and,  if  liked, 
a  few  cloves  and  pepper  corns ;  simmer  another  hour,  salt,  and 
strain.  Put  in  a  cold  place.  The  next  day,  skim  and  make  your 
soup.  Or  keep  a  few  days  for  strengthening  cream  soups  and 
sauces. 

White  Stock  is  made  from  veal  or  raw  chicken  bones. 
BARLEY  SOUP. 

Mrs.    Leo    Fox. 

Wash  and  boil  for  2  hours  1  cup  barley  in  enough  water  to 
keep  it  well  covered ;  drain  and  add  it  to  a  good  beef,  veal  or 
chicken  broth ;  let  simmer  for  10  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  stir  in  the  A'olk  of  1  or  2  eggs  beaten  in  \  cup  sweet  milk ; 
season  with  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Rice  or  tapioca  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

BEEF  SOUP. 
Mrs.    R.   P.   Taylor. 

Put  1  pound  lean  beef  in  a  kettle  with  1  gallon  cold  water; 
let  boil  slowly  1  hour.  Add  2  onions,  2  parsnips,  2  carrots,  and  8 
potatoes  cut  coarsely.  Boil  another  hour  ;  then  add  a  little  parsley 
and  1  level  tablespoon  flour,  cook  5  minutes  longer,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and   serve. 

BOUILLON. 

Cut  in  inch  cubes  5  pounds  lean  round  of  beef;  put  I  in  a 
kettle  and  soak  on  back  of  stove  \  hour;  take  the  marrow  from  a 
2  pound  bone  and  brown  the  rest  of  the  meat  with  this  in  a  hot 
pan ;  put  all  with  the  bone  in  the  kettle,  bring  to  the  boil,  skim, 
and  simmer  for  5  hours;  add  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  pepper- 
corns, and  ^  cup  each  of  diced  carrots,  turnips,  onions  and  celery  ; 
cook  1  hour,  strain  and  cool.  Skim  and  clear  by  adding  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg  while  heating  to  serve.  A  little  caramel  or  wine 
may  be  added.     Serve  in  cups. 

40 


SOUPS.  41 

CABBAGE   SOLJP. 

Take  h  a  small  sound  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters,  remove  core 
and  stale  leaves,  and  cut  in  fine  strips.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with 
1  tablespoon  butter,  U  teaspoons  salt  and  J  teaspoon  pepper;  cook 
over  a  moderate  fire  15  minutes,  or  until  tender,  stirring  occasion- 
ally. Add  2  peeled  and  quartered  raw  potatoes,  i  pound  each  raw 
fresh,  lean  pork  and  beef,  and  3.V  quarts  water.  Cover  pan  and 
let  sinuuer  2  hours.  Take  out  the  meat  and  chop  it  coarsely,  re- 
turn to  the  pan,  and  when  hot  again,  serve  in  a  hot  tureen  with  2 
ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese  in  a  separate  dish. 

CARROT   SOUP. 

Wash  and  clean  1  dozen  young  carrots,  slice  thin,  put  in  a 
saucepan  with  2  tablespoons  butter,  and  a  little  salt  and  sugar, 
and  cook  slowly  turning  often  till  they  color.  Add  1  pint  rich 
broth  and  boil  gently  till  the  carrots  are  soft.  Rub  through  a  sieve, 
return  to  the  saucepan,  and  take  up  when  smoking  hot. 

CELERY  BROTH. 

Clean  3  stalks  fresh  celery.  Take  out  the  hearts,  pick  off 
spoiled  leaves,  and  chop  branches  and  roots  in  small  pieces.  Take 
l.V  pounds  beef,  chop  fine,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  2  branches  pars- 
ley, 1  branch  each  of  chervil  and  chives  (if  at  hand),  the  whites 
of  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  salt,  2  saltspoons  pepper,  and  the  washed 
and  drained  celery.  Mix  and  heat  for  five  minutes,  place  over  the 
fire  and  slowly  stir  in  2}  quarts  water  continuing  till  it  reaches 
the  boil.     Set  back  and  let  simmer  1.}  hours.     Strain. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  1  pound  fresh  chicken  bones; 
chop  fine  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  2^  quarts  cold  water ;  set 
pan  on  fire  and  season  with  1  teaspoon  salt  and  half  as  much 
pepper.  As  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim  and  add  1  each  sliced 
carrot,  turnip  and  onion,  2  branches  each  celery  and  parsley,  1 
clove,  1  bay  leaf,  2  chopped  leeks,  and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Cover 
pan  and  let  simmer  li-  hours,  skim  and  strain  through  a  cheese- 
cloth, and  serve.  H  wanted  cold,  put  into  a  stone  jar  until  cool, 
then  place  jar  in  a  bowl  of  cracked  ice  and  let  get  thoroughly 
cold.     Serve  in  cups. 

n  wanted  for  an  invalid,-  use  the  whole  chicken  cut  up  without 
any  vegetable  but  rice. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

"The   Housekeeper's   Friend." 

Cut  up  2  chickens  and  put  them  in  a  pot  with  5  quarts  cold 
water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  boil  until  the  meat  is 
very  well  done.  Remove  it  from  the  liquor  and  cut  it  up  into 
sniiill  pieces.  Put  in  the  soup  \  pound  butter,  mixed  with  a  little 
flour,  and  a  pint  of  cream,     Throw  in  the  cut  meat  and  just  before 


42  OLD   COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

you  serve  it  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  a  little  parsley. 
You  may  also  add    (if  in  season)   a  pint  of  green  corn  cut  from 
the  cob  and  put  in  when  the  soup  is  half  done. 
Squirrel  soup  is  made  the  same  way. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

Wash  1  quart  clams  with  1  cup  cold  water,  and  keep  the  liquor. 
Chop  the  clanis.  Make  the  chowder  precisely  as  fish  chowder,  but 
put  the  clams  in  the  fat  at  the  same  time  with  the  potatoes.  When 
about  done,  heat  the  clam  liquor  to  the  boiling  point,  strain,  thicken 
with  butter  and  flour  and  stir  into  the  chowder  just  before  serving. 
1  cup  hot  cooked  tomatoes  is  an  addition  liked  in  some  places. 

COCKIE  LEEKIE. 

Prepare  a  tender  young  chicken  for  cooking,  and  cut  the  meat 
into  \  inch  pieces.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  2  tablespoons  butter, 
and  cook  about  10  minutes,  stirring.  Drain  off  the  butter  and  add 
3  quarts  hot  water.  When  it  boils  add  1  sliced  onion  (leeks,  if 
at  hand) ,  1  small  bunch  fresh  parsley,  2  teaspoons  salt  and  h  tea- 
spoon pepper.  Cover  and  boil  slowly  45  minutes.  Add  2  ounces 
raw  rice,  cover  again  and  boil  slowly  40  minutes  more.  Skim,  take 
out  the  parsley,  and  pour  into  a  hot  tureen. 

CONFEDERATE  ARMY  SOUP, 

as  made  at  General  Pickett's  headquarters. 

"Mrs.   Owen's  Cook  Book." 

1  ham  bone,  1  beef  bone,  1  pod  red  pepper,  1  pint  black  eyed 
peas.  Boil  in  a  mess  kettle  in  2  gallons  salted  water.  Splendid 
soup  for  a  wet  day. 

CONNECTICUT  CHOWDER. 

Prepare  as  Eish  Chowder,  using  the  fish  liquor  when  the  pota- 
toes are  added  to  the  fat  in  place  of  2  cups  water;  omit  the  milk, 
and  use  instead  2|-  cups  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes. 

CONSOMMfi. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  2  pounds  finely  chopped  shin  of  beef,  1 
medium  sized  sliced  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  branch  of  celery,  pars- 
ley, tarragon  and  chervil,  2  sliced  leeks,  1  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  thyme, 
1  clove,  1  bean  garlic,  1  tablespoon  salt  and  2  raw  eggs.  Stir  hard 
for  5  minutes,  then  stir  in  slowly  3J  quarts  boiling  water.  Put 
over  the  fire  and  let  slowly  boil.  Then  pour  in  1  gill  cold  water. 
Let  simmer  2  hours.  Strain  through  a  damp  double  cheesecloth 
into  a  hot  tureen,  li  wanted  cold,  strain  into  a  stone  jar,  and 
when  cool  put  the  jar  in  a  bowl  with  cracked  ice  around,  let 
thoroughly  set,  fill  up  cups  and  serve. 


SOUPS.  43 

CORN   AND   TOMATO   CREAM   SOUP. 

Cut  tfie  corn  from  six  fresh  ears ;  place  in  a  saucepan  with  1 
sliced  onion,  2  branches  celery  chopped  and  1  branch  parsley.  Add 
3  pints  white  broth  (or  water),  and  1  quart  milk.  Season  with  a 
heaping  teaspoon  salt,  let  come  to  a  boil,  put  in  3  ounces  raw  rice, 
and  let  boil  slowly  1}  -  hours,  stirring  well  occasionally.  Press 
through  a  sieve  and  a  strainer  and  return  to  the  saucepan.  Add 
i  tablespoon  butter  and  1  pint  tomato  sauce,  mix  well  and  boil 
5  minutes.  Serve  with  croutons.  If  no  tomato  sauce  at  hand, 
boil  down  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  to  the  desired  quantity  and 
season  well. 

CREAM    OF   BARLEY. 

Wash  thoroughly  i  pound  barley;  add  it  to  2.V  quarts  beef 
broth,  1  sliced  carrot  and  1  sliced  onion.  Add  1  teaspoon  salt, 
cover  and  let  simmer  for  2  hours.  Press  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
return  to  the  saucepan  ;  add  1  cup  cream,  2  cups  milk,  and  ^  table- 
spoon butter.  Beat  it  well,  bring  to  the  boil,  skim,  add  a  very 
little  sugar,  and  serve. 

Cream  of  rice  is  made  in  the  same  way,  using  rice  for  barley. 

CREAM  OF  CAULIFLOWER. 

Clean  and  soak  1  head  cauliflower,  and  boil  it  10  minutes ; 
remove  and  drain.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  a  saucepan 
with  1  ounce  butter,  cooking  5  minutes.  Add  1  quart  broth, 
3  pints  water,  2  branches  parsley,  1  onion  with  2  cloves,  and  1 
hay  leaf.  Season  with  1  tablespoon  salt,  2  saltspoons  cayenne  pep- 
per,  and  a  pinch  nutmeg.     Boil  slowly   1   hour. 

Rub  1  ounce  butter  with  2i  ounces  flour  in  a  hot  saucepan; 
strain  the  caidiflower  broth  into  this  and  stir  well.  Rub  the  vege- 
tables through  a  sieve,  and  return  to  the  soup,  boiling  15  minutes 
while  stirring.  Put  in  1  cup  milk  and  cream,  cook  again,  mix 
2  egg  yolks  with  3  tablespoons  cream,  add  to  the  soup  with  i 
ounce  butter,  and  stir  till  perfectly  hot.  Strain  and  serve  with 
croutons. 

CREAM  OF  GREEN   PEAS. 

Shell  J  peck  green  peas,  wash  the  pods,  cover  with  cold  water, 
and  boil  till  tender;  drain  the  pods  and  keep  the  water;  put  it 
back  in  the  kettle  and  boil  the  peas  till  done ;  take  out  1  cup  and 
mash  the  rest  through  a  sieve.  Put  3  times  the  quantity  of  milk 
with  it,  add  the  peas,  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  add  butter  and  flour 
rubbed  to  a  paste,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 
Some  like  a  touch  of  sugar  and  mint.     Serve  at  once  with  croutons. 

CREAM   OF  LI^IA   BEANS. 

Cover  1  quart  young  lima  or  butter  beans  with  boiling  water, 
and  boil  slowly  30  minutes;  drain  and  press  through  a  colander; 
finish  as  Salmon  Soup,  adding,  if  desired,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs  just  before  it  is  taken  from  the  fire.  String  beans  may  be 
cooked  tender,  and  finished  the  same  way. 


44  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

Canned  peas  are  pressed  through  a  colander  and  finished 
precisely  as  Salmon  Soup.  Any  of  these  soups  will  do  for  Friday 
by  omitting  the  stock   and   using  double  the  quantity  of   milk. 

CREAM   OF  TAPIOCA. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  cold  water  2   hours ;   finish   as   Cream  of 
Barley,  using  a  white  stock  in  preference. 
Cream  of  Sago  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

CREOLE   SOUP. 

Mrs.    Frank    Connell. 

Brown  2  tablespoons  each  chopped  peppers  and  onions  in  1 
tablespoon  butter,  add  ^  can  tomatoes,  and  1  quart  brown  stock; 
simmer  20  minutes.  Put  a  little  grated  horseradish  at  the  bot- 
tom of  a  tureen  with  1  teaspoon  vinegar,  and  some  boiled  macaroni 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Thicken  the  soup  with  a  little  butter  and  flour 
rubbed  together,  adding  it  very  carefully,  and  pour  into  the  tureen. 

ECONO^IICAL  SOUP. 

Slice  small  a  variety  of  soup  vegetables  and  herbs,  brown  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  \  tablespoon  butter,  add  5  pints  hot  water, 
season  to  taste,  put  in  a  little  chopped  salt  pork  and  whatever 
beef  or  chicken  bones  are  at  hand.  Cover  and  simmer  30  minutes, 
skimming  every  10  minutes.  Add  4  tablespoons  raw  rice,  and 
half  as  much  chopped  spaghetti.  Cover  again  and  boil  40  min- 
utes.    Take   out   the   bones   and   pork,   skim,   and   serve   with   toast. 

EGYPTIAN  CREAM. 

Put  1  pint  can  corn  in  a  saucepan  with  1  quart  milk  and  3 
pints  broth.  Season  with  li^  teaspoons  salt,  2  saltspoons  pepper  and 
half  as  nmch  nutmeg.  Boil  slowly  40  minutes.  Melt  1  tablespoon 
butter  in  another  pan  with  2J  ounces  flour,  stir  hard  for  2 
minutes,  pour  in  the  corn,  stir  till  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  1  egg 
yolk  with  \  cup  cream:  stir  well  for  -5  minutes  without  boiling, 
strain  and  serve  with  bread  croutons. 

FISH  CHOWDER. 

"Boston   Cooking   School." 

Take  a  4  pound  fresh  cod  or  haddock,  skin,  cut  ofif  head  and 
tail,  take  out  the  backbone,  throw  away  the  skin,  and  put  the  head, 
etc.,  into  a  pan  with  2  cups  cold  water;  stew  slowly  20  minutes; 
in  the  meantime  cut  the  meat  into  2  inch  pieces,  and  put  aside. 
Chop  a  small  piece  salt  pork,  fry  out,  brown  an  onion  in  the  fat, 
and  strain  the  fat  into  a  kettle  with  4  cups  diced  and  parboiled 
potatoes  ;  add  2  clips  boiling  water  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  the 
liquor  from  the  fish  pan  and  the  diced  fish;  cover  and  simmer  10 
minutes  longer ;  season  with  1  tablespoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper, 
3  tablespoons  butter,  4  cups  scalded  milk,  and  8  Boston  crackers 
split  and  soaked  in  the  milk;  tea  crackers  would  need  no  soft- 
ening, 


SOUPS.  45 

GIBLET   SOUP. 

Take  the  giblets,  neck  and  first  joints  of  wings  and  legs  o{ 
uncooked  turkey,  chicken,  etc.  Dice,  and  dice  also  1  peeled  carrot, 
turnip,  onion,  2  leeks  and  2  l)ranches  celery.  Brown  meat  and 
vegetables  with  Ik  tablespoons  butter  in  the  soup  kettle  for  15 
minutes;  add  3  quarts  water,  i  pint  tomato  sauce,  or  thick  cooked 
tomatoes,  1  tablespoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  and  2  tablespoons 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Add  a  bunch  of  soup  herbs,  .and  simmer  1 
hour ;  add  3  ounces  raw  rice  and  simmer  another  hour.  Take  out 
the  herbs  and  serve. 

GREEN  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Filippini. 

Heat  a  pint  can  of  green  turtle,  in  a  double  boiler,  and  chop 
the  meat  into  dice.  Have  3  pints  consomme  prepared ;  heat  it 
in  a  saucepan,  add  the  turtle  and  its  broth,  with  ^  gill  sherry,  1 
tablespoon  brandy  and  1  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  20  min- 
utes. Skim,  add  3  tablespoons  arrowroot  diluted  in  2  tablespoons 
sherry;   mix,   boil    1    minute  longer,   and   serve. 

IMPERIAL  CONSOMMfi. 

Cut  2  pounds  lean  veal  into  small  pieces  with  J  pound  lean 
ham,  and  a  small  chicken  ;  brown  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon 
butter,  and  a  bunch  of  soup  vegetables  and  herbs  (no  tomatoes)  ; 
add  I  cup  water  and  stew  till  well  browned ;  then  add  4  quarts 
water,  let  simmer  3  hours,  strain  and  put  on  the  ice  to  cool. 
When  cool,  skim,  and  pour  into  cups  to  jelly.     Serve  cold. 

MACARONI  CLEAR  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Kate  Hoodlet.  . 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni,  break  into  short 
pieces,  and  parboil  it  3  minutes,  then  drain.  Put  in  a  saucepan 
containing  2  quarts  boiling  clear  chicken  or  veal  broth,  and  simmer 
gently  till  the  macaroni  is  thoroughly  cooked,  skimming  if  nec- 
essary.    Serve  with  grated  cheese  in  a  side  dish. 

MISSISSIPPI  GUMBO  SOUP. 

"Mrs.    Owen's    Cook    Book." 

Fry  a  large  tender  chicken  very  brown  ;  take  up  and  fry  1 
quart  sliced  okra  in  the  gravy;  add  to  the  chicken  without  the 
grease ;  put  chicken  and  okra  in  a  porcelain  vessel  of  cold  water, 
add  1  pint  peeled  sliced  tomatoes,  1  large  white  onion  sliced,  a 
few  chips  of  smoked  ham,  and  salt  to  taste.  Cook  slowly  1  hour ; 
add  1  dozen  broken  soda  crackers,  1  large  tablespoon  butter,  and 
1  teaspoon  black  pepper.  If  liked,  G  hard  boiled  eggs  may  be 
added  chopped;  get  very  hot  and  serve. 


46  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

MOCK  TURTLE   SOUP. 

Mrs.   John   D.    Martin. 

Take  the  stock  from  2J-  pounds  boiling  meat;  add  1  small 
onion,  2  medium  sized  potatoes  diced,  ^  teaspoon  each  of  cloves, 
allspice  and  celery  seed,  and  salt  to  taste.  Cook  until  the  vege- 
tables are  done.     Then  add  3  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced,  the  juice  of 

1  lemon  and  half  the  lemon  sliced  thin,  and  1  wineglass  sour  wine, 
and  let  simmer  ^  hour. 

MULLIGATAWNY. 

Filippini. 

Prepare  the  following  ingredients :  ^  carrot  sliced,  1  onion 
sliced,  i  turnip  sliced,  1  each  sliced  leek,  branch  of  celery,  parsley 
root,  apple,  green  pepper ;  2  ripe  sliced  tomatoes,  2  shallots  sliced, 

2  bay  leaves,  \  eggplant  sliced,  1  crushed  garlic  bean,  2  cloves, 
i  ounce  lean  raw  ham  or  bacon  diced,  and  1  piece  chopped  lemon 
rind.  Heat  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  all  these  ingredients, 
and  brown  for  5  minutes,  stirring  well.  Mix  in  1  tablespoon  flour 
and  cook  8  minutes  longer.  Stir  in  2^  quarts  hot  broth,  1  light 
tablespoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  1  saltspoon  cayenne  and  same 
of  grated  nutmeg,  and  1  good  teaspoon  curry  powder  dissolved 
in  water.  Stir  well  and  let  simmer  1  hour.  Skim  and  strain ;  add 
1  tablespoon  cocoanut  milk,  or  cream,  2  tablespoons  boiled  rice, 
and  same  of  chopped  cold  chicken ;  stir  until  very  hot,  but  do 
not  boil  again. 

NOODLE  SOUP. 

Mrs.    Charles  Kling. 

Boil  a  nice  fat  chicken  till  tender ;  set  aside,  and  season  the 
broth.  Break  3  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  flour  enough  for  a  very 
stiff  dough,  work  until  it  looks  like  nice  butter;  roll  as  thin  as 
possible  and  let  dry  a  little;  have  the  broth  boiling,  cut  the  dough 
into  fine  strips,  drop  them  in  slowly,  and  stir  for  a  few  seconds  till 
the  noodles  come  to  the  top  of  the  broth :  serve  at  once. 

OKRA  SOUP. 

Dice  1  ounce  raw  lean  ham  and  a  little  more  veal,  1  onion, 
1  green  pepper ;  brown  in  a  saucepan  without  burning  for  10 
minutes,  with  a  little  butter.  Add  5  pints  water  and  1  pint 
tomato  juice.  Season  with  1  tablespoon  salt  and  I  teaspoon  pepper, 
and  add  about  1  pound  raw  veal  bones.  Boil  slowly  30  minutes. 
Trim,  wash  and  cut  into  i  inch  pieces  1  dozen  fresh  okras ; 
add  to  the  soup  and  boil  until  they  are  done,  about  25  minutes. 
Add  2  tablespoons  each  canned  corn  and  lima  beans,  cook  a  few 
minutes,   take   out   the  bones,   skim  the    fat   ,and   serve. 

ONION    SOUP   AU   GRATIN. 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  and  keep  hot.  Slice  3  onions 
and  brown   them   for   15   minutes   in    1   tablespoon   butter.     Rub  in 

3  tablespoons    flour,   and    1    saltspoon    cayenne   pepper,    stir   in   the 


SOUPS.  47 

consomme,  and  let  simmer  85  minutes.  Put  in  an  earthen  soup 
tureen,  put  G  slices  toast  on  top,  dust  3  ounces  cheese  over  all,  and 
bake  in   the  oven    15   minutes. 

PEPPER  POT. 

Chop  fine  2  each  of  onions  and  green  peppers.  Put  in  a 
saucepan  with  ^  tablespoon  butter  and  brown  for  10  minutes. 
.Add  4  ounces  fresh  tripe  (or  calf  brains)  diced,  2  ounces  raw  rice, 
2i-  quarts  white  broth  or  hot  water,  1  pound  fresh  veal  bones, 
-1  tablespoon  salt  and  ^  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  and  simmer  30 
minutes.  Peel  and  cut  into  eighths  3  medium  ripe  tomatoes,  add, 
and  let  boil  35  minutes  longer.     Remove  the  bones  and  serve. 

POTATO    SOUP. 

Chop  4  ounces  lean  salt  pork,  2  leeks  and  1  onion,  and  put  in 
a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  and  2  bay  leaves.  Cook  10 
minutes,  stirring.  Slice  fine  6  peeled  raw  potatoes,  and  add  to 
the  pan  with  1  quart  white  broth,  3  pints  water,  1  light  teaspoon 
salt,  and  ^  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  and  let  boil  slowly  1  hour, 
and  press  through  a  sieve  into  another  saucepan.  Drop  2  ounces 
vermicelli  in  1  pint  boiHng  broth,  and  boil  10  minutes ;  add  it  to 
the  soup.     Mix  well,  boil   10  minutes  longer  and   serve. 

PURfiE  OF  TOMATOES. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Slice  fine  i  each 
carrot,  onion,  branch  of  celery,  and  green  pepper;  J  ounce  raw  lean 
ham,  and  1  branch  parsley;  add  all  these  to  the  saucepan  and  stir' 
for   10  minutes   until  nicely  browned.     Stir  in   3  tablespoons   flour, 

1  quart  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes,  and  2  quarts  white  broth  or 
water.  Season  with  1  talilespoon  each  salt  and  sugar,  and  J  tea- 
spoon pepper.  Simmer  1  hour,  and  strain.  Add  2  potatoes  previ- 
ously diced  and  cooked  in  salted  water  for  20  minutes.  Serve 
immediately. 

PURfiE  OF  TURNIPS  AND  TOMATOES. 

Peel  8  medium  sound  turnips,  slice  thin  and  cook  slowly  in 
a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  butter  for  15  minutes.  Add  2  sliced 
raw  potatoes,  and  2  sliced  onions.  Put  in  a  bunch  of  herbs  tied 
together.     Season    with    salt    and    pepper,    add    1    quart    broth    and 

2  quarts  water,  mix  well  and  boil  slowly  1^  hours.  Stir  occa- 
sionally. Strain,  return  to  the  fire,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  add  1  pint 
tomato  sauce,  boil  for  10  minutes,  and  serve.  (If  raw  or  canned 
tomatoes  are  used  in  place  of  the  sauce,  put  them  into  the  soup 
earlier.) 

QUEEN  VICTORIA'S  FAVORITE  SOUP. 

"Invalid  Cooking." 

Boil  a  chicken  until  done.  Remove  the  skin,  tendons  and 
bones;  chop  the  chicken  until  as  fine  as  meal;  take  1  cup  of  chicken, 
mix    it   with    \  cup    cracker    or    bread    crumbs    soaked   in    a    little 


48  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

cream.  Boil  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  hard,  rub  through  a  sieve  and  add 
to  the  chicken  with  1  teaspoon  salt,  h  saltspoon  pepper,  and  1  pint 
of  chicken  broth.  Strain  the  whole  through  a  colander,  adding  1 
pint  of  cream  slowly  and  pressing  through  all  of  the  meat.  Cook 
for  \  hour  in  a  double  boiler. 

RABBIT  SOUP. 

Prepare  the  rabbit  for  cooking,  and  cut  in  h  inch  square 
pieces.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  stalk  celery, 
an  onion,  and  1  green  pepper,  seeded.  Brown  for  10  minutes. 
Brown  in  an  ounce  of  flour.  Add  5  pints  water,  \  cup  red  wine, 
and  1  cup  strong  broth.  Add  a  bunch  of  soup  herbs,  pepper  and 
salt,  then  let  simmer  IJ  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Take  out  the 
herbs,   mix  in  2   tablespoons   sherry,   and   serve. 

SALMON   SOUP. 

Take  1  pound  fresh  or  canned  salmon,  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  simmer  15  minutes  ;  take  out  skin  and  bones  and  mash  through 
a  colander.  Bring  1  pint  each  of  milk  and  veal  stock  to  the  boil, 
stir  in  2  tablespoons  flour  rubbed  with  1  tablespoon  butter ;  when 
it  thickens,  put  in  the  salmon,  and  take  up  when  it  reaches  the 
boil  again.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Any  white  fish  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way ;  if  no  stock 
at  hand,  use  that  much  more  milk,  and  boil  in  it  a  little  onion, 
bay   leaf   and   parsley. 

SALSIFY    SOUP. 

Trim,  scrape  and  wash  2  bunches  salsify.  Drain  and  slice  very 
tine.  Fry  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  butter  until  tender; 
then  add  2  tablespoons  flour,  and  mix  well  while  heating  through. 
Add  2  quarts  broth  or  water,  2  finely  sliced  onions  and  leeks 
(each),  and  1  branch  parsley.  Season  with  1  teaspoon  salt,  half  as 
much  pepper,  and  1  saltspoon  nutmeg.  Cover  and  let  boil  slowly 
1  hour.  Press  through  a  sieve  and  again  through  a  strainer  back 
into  the  saucepan,  add  ^-  tablespoon  butter,  1  pint  milk  and  \  pint 
cream.  Stir  constantly  wdiile  boiling  5  minutes.  Serve  in  a  hot 
tureen  with  croutons. 

SORREL  SOUP. 

Pick,  wash  and  squeeze  dry  1  pint  fresh  sorrel.  Cut  into  strips. 
Heat  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  sorrel,  cover  and 
steam  10  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Rub  in  2  tablespoons 
flour,  add  2  quarts  white  broth  or  water,  and  1  pint  milk.  Season 
with  2  teaspoons  salt,  1  of  sugar,  and  \  teaspoon  pepper;  mix,  and 
let  simmer  20  minutes.  Add  \  gill  cream  beaten  with  the  white 
of  1  egg ;  boil  1  minute :  beat  the  yolk  with  2  tablespoons  milk, 
and  stir  it  in,  cooking  5  minutes  longer. 

SPANISH  CELERY  SOUP. 

Clean  and  cut  into  1  inch  pieces  2  whole  stalks  celery.  Put 
in  a  saucepan  with  1  finely  chopped  green  pepper  and  \\  table- 
spoons butter.    Cover  and  let  steam  10  minutes.    Then  add  2  quarts 


SOUPS.  49 

broth,  2  ounces  raw  rice,  2  peeled  and  finely  chopped  tomatoes,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  3  saltspooils  pepper;  mix  and  let  I)oil  slowly  45 
minutes. 

SVEZHSA  SHTCHEE. 

Filippini. 

Put  a  3  pound  piece  of  the  short  ribs  of  beef  in  a  saucepan 
with  5  quarts  water  and  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  cover  and  boil  for 
30  minutes,  skimming  occasionally.  Take  half  of  a  small  cabbage, 
core  and  trim  it,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  plunge  into  boiling  water 
for  5  minutes,  then  drain  and  put  in  the  soup  with  2  onions  and 
carrots  each  sliced.  Cover  and  let  simmer  for  3  hours.  Take 
out  the  beef  and  skim  the  soud.  Rub  1  ounce  butter  with  IV  ounces 
flour,  and  gradually  add  to  the  soup,  stirring  continuously.  Lastly 
J  cup  cream  and  2  tablespoons  vinegar.  Stir  well,  boil  for  2  min- 
utes and  serve  hot. 

THICK  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Mary  Roylc. 

Wash  \  cup  pearl  barley,  cover  with  water,  and  let  come  to  a 
boil ;  pour  off  the  first  water,  and  add  1  quart  of  fresh.  Let  sim- 
mer gently  for  2  hours.  Then  add  1  quart  *of  the  thick  stock 
left  from  clear  soup,  1  cup  each  of  diced  turnips,  carrots,  onions, 
and  cabbage,  scalding  the  vegetables  first  in  boiling  water.  Simmer 
till  nearly  done  :  add  1  cup  diced  potatoes  and  1  cup  diced  celery, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Cook  30  minutes  longer,  or  until   done. 

TURKEY  SOUP. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

Break  up  the  neatly  picked  carcass  of  a  popular  turkey,  cover 
well  with  cold  water,  and  simmer  2  hours  with  1  chopped  branch 
of  celery  ;  strain,  season,  and  when  it  boils  again  drop  in  a  hand- 
ful of  vermicelli  or  noodles,  and  serve  when  they  are  done.  Or 
J   cup  dried   corn   may   be   cooked  in  it  in   place  of  the  vermicelli. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP,  NO.  L 

Mrs.    James    S.    Leonard. 

Cover  a  ten  cent  soup  bone  with  cold  water,  and  boil  nearly 
all  day ;  keep  adding  to  the  water  from  the  boiling  kettle  to  keep 
it  where  it  started.  Have  about  2  quarts  when  finished.  Take  out 
the  bone  and  let  stand  over  night.  The  next  day  skim,  and  add 
the  vegetables  —  2  large  sized  potatoes,  2  onions,  ^  of  a  small  cab- 
bage, i  pint  tomatoes  and,  if  liked,  a  turnip  and  a  couple  of  carrots, 
chop  the  vegetables  quite  coarsely ;  boil  until  they  are  done,  then 
rub  the  soup  through  a  colander;  return  to  the  fire,  get  scalding 
hot  and  serve. 


50  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

VEGETABLE   SOUP,   NO.  2. 

Miss   Laura   Wilson. 

Boil  2  pounds  soup  meat  4  hours  slowly  and  set  away  till  next 
day.  Skim,  and  put  in  J  cup  rice ;  let  cook  on  the  back  of  the 
stove.  Chop  1  large  onion,  1  bunch  celery,  1  large  potato,  1  small 
carrot,  and  a  little  parsley.  Boil  the  vegetables  separately  till  done. 
Pour  into  the  broth  with  1  can  tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  cook  on  the  front  of  the  stove  till  the  tomatoes  are 
done. 


FRIDAY  SOUPS. 


BEAN   SOUP. 

Wash  1  quart  dried  white  soup  beans  and  soak  them  over 
night.  Drain,  and  boil  in  2  quarts  fresh  water.  Drain  again,  re- 
turn to  the  kettle  with  2  quarts  fresh  boiling  water,  add  a  pinch 
of  soda,  and  boil  until  mushy.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  add  enough 
boiling  water  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  cream,  stir  in  1  table- 
spoon butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  let  boil  up  once,  and  serve 
with  croutons. 

BISQUE  OF  PICKEREL. 

Filippini. 

Put  a  bunch  of  soup  herbs  and  a  collection  of  sliced  soup 
vegetables  (omitting  tomatoes)  with  a  few  whole  spices  in  a 
saucepan  with  3  quarts  cold  water,  adding  1  tablespoon  salt  and  ^ 
teaspoon  pepper.  Boil  45  minutes.  Cut  a  fresh  pickerel  of  2 
pounds  into  small  pieces  and  -add  to  the  broth.  Cover  and  boil 
20  minutes.  Rub  2J  ounces  flour  with  l^  ounces  butter  in  a  hot 
saucepan,  strain  the  broth  into  it,  add  a  little  nutmeg,  boil  5  min- 
utes. Beat  1  egg  yolk  in  i  cup  cream,  and  add  with  J  tablespoon 
butter ;  stir  for  5  minutes  without  boiling.  Strain  and  serve  with 
croutons. 

Cod  and  other  fresh  fish   may  be  cooked  the  same  way.' 

BROWN   FISH  SOUP. 

Cut  any  kind  of  fresh  fish  in  small  pieces,  roll  in  flour  and 
brown  in  butter  or  olive  oil  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  plenty  of 
hot  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  boil  slowly  15  minutes. 
1  clove  garlic  may  be  added. 

CABBAGE  SOUP. 

Mrs.    Cicero   Phipps. 

Shave  the  cabbage  fine  and  boil  til!  tender ;  add  1  even  table- 
spoon sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste :  drop  in  dumplings,  and 
when  ready  to  serve  add  butter  and  sweet  cream  to  taste. 


SOUPS.  51 

CARROT  CREAM  SOUP. 

Boil  carrots  till  tender  and  chop  ^  cup  fine.  Reduce  the  water 
in  which  they  were  boiled  to  I   cup.     Rub  1  tablespoon  butter  with 

2  tablespoons  flour  in  a  hot  saucepan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  add  gradually  3  cups  niilk,  stirring  till  it  boils.  Turn  in  the 
carrots  and  carrot  brotli,  let  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

CLAM   SOUP. 

Wash  the  clams  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  strain  the  liquor. 
Cut  out  the  soft  parts,  chop  up  the  hard,  and  put  to  boil  with  the 
liquor.  Strain  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together. 
Take  as  much  milk  as  clams,  scald  with  a  slice  of  onion,  add  the 
milk  and  the  soft  clams  to  the  soup;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  and  cook  2  minutes. 

The  whites  of  2  eggs  may  be  beaten  stiff  and  put  in  the  tureen, 
and  the  soup  stirred  into  them ;  or  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  may  be 
added  when  taken  up. 

CORN  CHOWDER. 

Mrs.    .Mian    Thomas. 

Put  in  a  kettle  1  can  corn,  2  cups  water,  3  potatoes  and  2 
onions  pared  and  sliced ;  cook  slowly  until  potatoes  and  onions 
are  done.  Add  1  pint  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  hot  with  crackers  added  the  last 
moment. 

CORN    SOUP. 

Mrs.    H.    C.    Tuttle. 

Chop  1  can  corn  or  1  quart  fresh  corn  and  add  1  slice  onion, 
chopped.  Then  2  cups  water  and  simmer  20  minutes.  Rub  through 
a  sieve,  add  2  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  to  taste,  and 
thicken  with  1  tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together 
Stir  well  and  serve  as  soon  as  it  boils  up. 

CREAM   OF  -  ASPARAGUS. 

Wash  the  asparagus,  cut  off  the  tips,  cut  the  stalks  into  small 
pieces  and  boil  tips  and  stalks  separately  in  the  same  pint  of  boil- 
ing, salted  water  ;  put  aside  the  tips  but  press  the  rest  through  a 
sieve.  Rub  together  2  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour  with  a 
little  hot  milk,  stir  into  the  rest  of  1  quart  boiling  milk,  and  cook 
5  minutes.  Have  the  asparagus  very  hot,  pour  the  milk  into  it, 
season,  add  the  tips  and  serve.  This  must  not  be  boiled  after  put- 
ting together. 

FISH   SOUP. 

Put  a  head  of  some  large  fresh  fish  in  a  saucepan  with  soup 
vegetables  and  herbs ;  add  2  teaspoons  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  1  tea- 
spoon curry  powder,  if  liked,  and  3  quarts  water.  P>oil  slowly  l^ 
hours.     Strain  through   a   cheesecloth   into   another   saucepan,   add 

3  ounces  raw  rice,  and  boil  slowly  15  minutes.     Remove  the  skin 


62  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

and  bone   from   1  pound  fresh  halibut,  cut  in  pieces  \  inch  square, 
add  to  soup  and   simmer   15   minutes.      Add  the  juice   of  \  lemon, 
and  the  yolk  of   1   egg  beaten  up   with  ^  cup  cream,   stir  in   care- 
fully, and  cook  a  few   moments  longer,  but  do  not  boil. 
Macaroni  would  serve  instead  of  the  rice. 

FRIDAY    SOUP. 

Mrs.    A.    M.    Thackara. 

For  2  quarts  soup,  take  Ci  potatoes,  4  onions,  4  ounces  crushed 
tapioca,  IJ^  pints  milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cut  up  the 
vegetables  into  2  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  f  of  an  hour. 
Rub  the  vegetables  through  a  sieve.  i)ut  back  the  paste  'into  the 
water,  add  the  seasoning,  and  boil  the  tapioca  15  minutes  in  the 
soup.  Then'  add  the  milk  and  when  thoroughly  heated,  serve.  A 
little  marjoram  or  nutmeg  is  a  good  addition. 

LOBSTER  CHOWDER. 

Dice  the  meat  from  a  2  pound  lobster  :  scald  4  cups  milk  with 
1  slice  onion,  take  out  the  onion,  add  :'>  tablespoons  butter,  the 
lobster  liver  and  meat,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1  cup  hot  water 
in  which  the  bones  have  been  stewed  for  10  minutes,  and  2  rolled 
crackers.     Use  cayenne  pepper  or  paprika. 

MUSHROOM   SOUP. 

Miss    Anna    Walters. 

Put  1  quart  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  1  teaspoon  butter.  Let  them  come  to  a  boil  and  add  1  pint 
mushrooms.     Boil   about  3   minutes,   then   serve. 

ONION  SOUP. 

Mrs.    E.    S.    Martin. 

Cut  six  white  onions  fine,  and  fry  in  a  spoonful  of  butter  till 
a  light  brown.  Add  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one  pint  milk ; 
season  with  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper,  a  pinch  of  mace 
and  \  teaspoon  sugar.  Boil  very  slowly  for  an  hour  and  then 
strain.  Beat  4  eggs  to  a  foam,  add  one  cup  cream,  and  one  table- 
spoon cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Boil  up  once 
and  serve  with  croutons. 

OYSTER  BROTH. 

Put  1  quart  oysters  in  a  saucepan  with  their  liquor  and  1 
pint  water,  4  branches  celery  chopped  and  2  branches  chopped 
parsley.  Add  \  teaspoon  salt  and  half  as  much  cayenne  pepper. 
Let  boil  5  minutes.  Skim  the  broth,  add  a  little  butter  and  sweet 
cream,  strain  into  cups  and  serve.  Take  out  the  parsley  and  celery, 
and  keep  the  oysters  in  a  cool  place  for  further  use. 


SOUPS.  53 

OYSTER  SOUP,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.   Frank"  Thomas. 

Put  the  liquor  from  1  quart  oysters  in  a  kettle  with  1  quart 
water,  let  boil  and  skim  ;  add  2  quarts  milk ;  when  nearly  at  the 
boil  put  in  2  tablespoons  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  the 
oysters  and  1  dozen  rolled  crackers.  Take  up  as  soon  as  it  be- 
gins to  boil. 

OYSTER  SOUP,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

Drain  the  oysters  well ;  put  the  milk  on  to  boil  with  a  little 
water  to  prevent  scorching;  when  scalding  hot,  add  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  drop  in  the  oysters,  let  get  heated  through 
without  cooking,  and  serve  at  once. 

OYSTER  SOUP  WITHOUT  OYSTERS. 

"The   Housekeeper's   Friend." 

Boil  li  dozen  onions  with  1  turnip  in  water  enough  to  cover 
them.  When  soft  enough,  mash  very  smooth  through  a  colander, 
then  boil  again  in  1  quart  milk.  Mix  1  teaspoon  flour  with  1  table- 
spoon butter  and  stir  into  the  soup.  Let  boil  up  thoroughly  and 
season  with  pepper,  salt  and  mace. 

PISTACHIO  SOUP. 

Wash  clean  1  quart  spinach,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  wilt  in  a 
hot  saucepan ;  drain,  chop  fine  and  pound  to  a  paste.  Boil  1  quart 
v'\\k  m  T'  double  boiler  20  minutes  with  1  teaspoon  almond  paste, 
and  2  ounces  pistachio  nuts  pounded :  add  the  spinach,  1  table- 
spoon each  butter  and  arrowroot  moistened,  and  press  through  a 
sii've.     Season  with  salt  and  paprika. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Doil  4  good  sized  potatoes  until  half  done ;  drain  and  cover 
with  1  pint  boiling  water;  add  1  slice  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  1  branch 
celery,  and  1  sprig  parsley,  and  boil  till  done.  Put  1  quart  milk 
in  a  double  boiler.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  and  stir  into 
the  milk  till  it  thickens.  Rub  the  potatoes  through  a  sieve  into 
the  tureen ;  pour  the  hot  milk  over  them,  stir  well  until  smooth, 
and   serve  immediately. 

POT  AU  FEU. 

Soak  \  pint  soup  beans  in  cold  water  for  8  hours,  drain  and 
put  them  in  a  large  earthen  soup  pot.  Core  and  trim  half  a  very 
small  cabbage  and  finely  slice  it  into  the  pot.  Boil  2  ounces  dried 
split  peas  for  5  minutes,  drain  and  add  to  the  pot  with  3  quarts 
water,  a  heaping  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon  pepper,  and  1  tablespoon 
butter.  Boil  slowly  4.")  minutes.  Then  add  2  small  sliced  raw 
potatoes,  and  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Cover  and  sinuncr  slowly 
for  l^  hours. 

PURfiE  Ol-  LIMA  BEANS. 

Drain  1  <in,'irt  can  lima  beans,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  4.t 
pints  water,  the  usual  s(jup  vegetables  and  herbs,  (except  tomatoes), 


54  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

jounce  butter,  1  level  tablespoon  salt,  and  boil  hard  40  minutes. 
Drain  and  keep  the  broth.  Remove  the  soup  vegetables ;  mash 
the  beans  fine,  return  them  to  the  saucepan  with  the  broth  seasoned 
with  cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg,  and  1  tablespoon  butter. 
Boil  5  minutes ;  add  2  tablespoons  rice  flour  in  \  cup  cream ;  boil 
up  nicely,  strain  into  a  tureen,  and  serve  with  croutons. 

SPINACH  SOUP. 
Mrs.   B.  F.  Martin. 

Boil  2  quarts  of  well  washed  spinach  10  minutes  in  salted 
water ;  drain,  chop  fine,  put  through  a  strainer  into  3  pints  of 
boiling  milk.  Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  3  tablespoons  flour, 
when  smooth  stir  into  the  soup,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP. 

Mrs.    David    Atlas. 

Take  1  cup  split  pea.s,  let  boil  2  or  3  hours  in  3  pints  water, 
replenishing  with  boiling  water  as  it  boils  away.  When  soft,  rub 
through  a  colander,  and  add  to  a  saucepan  in  which  2  tablespoons 
flour  have  just  been  browned  in  2  tablespoons  butter.  Let  boil 
10  minutes.  Put  several  thin  squares  of  buttered  toast  in  a  soup 
tureen  and  pour  the  soup  over  them.     Serve  at  once. 

TOMATO  CREAM. 

Mrs.    J.    A.    Devol. 

Stew  until  tender  1  quart  tomatoes  either  raw  or  canned; 
strain ;  put  back  on  the  fire  and  add  a  pinch  of  soda,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  butter  tlie  size  of  an  egg,  and  3  tablespoons 
rolled  crackers.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  1  quart  scalding 
hot  milk.      Serve  immediately. 

TOMATO  SOUP,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    P.    R.    .Sines. 

Stew  1  pint  milk  with  a  little  chopped  celery;  stew  1  can 
strained  tomatoes  15  minutes  with  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar;  when  ready  to  serve  stir 
into  the  hot  milk,  and  serve  immediately. 

TOMATO  SOUP,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.     F.     E.    Kramer. 

Cook  and  strain  5  good  sized  tomatoes ;  stew  5  minutes  with 
a  pinch  of  soda ;  season  with  i  tablespoon  butter,  salt,  pepper  and 
celery  salt;    take  up  and  stir  in  1  pint  scalded  milk.     Serve  hot. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Mrs.    Pat    Duffy. 

Boil  G  potatoes  dry  and  mash  in  the  kettle;  add  1  can  to- 
matoes, 1  can  peas,  3  chopped  onions,  i  gallon  water,  \  pound 
butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  slowly  till  the  vegetables 
are  done. 


SOUP  GARNISHINGS  AND  FORCEMEATS. 


APPLE  STUFFING. 

Take  i  pound  pulp  of  baked  or  steamed  apples;  add  2  ounces 
breadcrumbs,  some  powdered  sage,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  a 
finely  minced  onion.     Use  with  roast  goose  or  duck. 

BREAD  CANAPfiS. 

Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  U  inches  thick,  cut  off  the  crusts,  and 
hollow  out  the  centres  till  the  size  wanted,  taking  care  not  to  leave 
the  undercrust  too  thin.  Fry  brown  in  boiling  fat,  or  butter  and 
toast  in  the  oven.     For  serving  roast  birds,  creamed  vegetables,  etc. 

BREAD  CROUTONS. 

Cut  several  slices  of  rather  stale  bread  ^  inch  thick,  cut  again 
into  small  dice;  put  1  tablespoon  butter  into  a  hot  saucepan, 
when  hot  add  the  croutons,  and  fry  carefully  until  of  a  golden 
brown.    Drain,  and  add  to  soups,  etc.,  when  ready  to  serve. 

CHEESE  BALLS. 

Boil  1  tablespoon  butter  with  ^  cup  water;  stir  in  quickly  } 
cup  tiour  till  smooth ;  take  off,  add  1  well  beaten  egg,  and  2  table- 
spoons grated  cheese ;  drop  in  bean  sized  pieces  on  a  greased 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  15  minutes.     Serve  with  clear  soups. 

CHESTNUT  STUFFING. 

"Glasgow    Exchange." 

Peel  i  pound  Italian  chestnuts,  and  boil  in  a  little  stock  or 
water;  pound  and  mix  with  I  pound  breadcrumbs,  J  pound  pork 
sausage,  1  teaspoon  dried  herbs,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  and  2  beaten  eggs.  Stuff  a  roast 
turkey  with  this  dressing,  put  several  slices  of  bacon  on  its  breast, 
and  serve  with  bread  sauce  as  well  as  gravy,  and  with  several 
sliced  sausages  cooked  in  the  pan  10  minutes.  The  giblets  may  be 
parboiled,  chopped   and  added  to  the  stuffing  if  liked. 

CHICKEN  FORCEMEAT. 

Scald  1-  pint  milk,  add  h  pint  stale  breadcrumbs;  when  it 
thickens  put  in  tlie  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs ;  take  off,  stir  in  1  pint 
raw  chopped  chicken,  1  tablespoon  parsley,  |  teaspoon  salt,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  and  nutmeg.  When  cold,  use  for  stuffing,  or  make 
into  small  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  breadcrumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling 
fat.     Use  to  garnish   made   meat  dishes. 

55 


56  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

DROP  DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.  Elsie  Davis. 

Sift  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  with  1  pint  flour,  add  1  egg, 
J  cup  sweet  milk  or  water,  J  teaspoon  salt,  and  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon lard;    drop  in  boiling  water.     Cover  and  boil   10  minutes. 

GERMAN  CHRISTMAS  DRESSING. 

Mrs.   L.    C.    Laube. 

Cliop  coarsely  3  or  4  onions  and  2  sour  apples  and  fry  them  in 
the  turkey  fat  or  in  butter  till  brown.  Soak  a  loaf  of  bread  in 
cold  water,  mix  with  it  the  onions  and  apples,  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  allspice  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add 
1  pound  seeded  raisins  and  about  a  cupful  of  boiled  and  peeled 
chestnuts.  The  turkey  may  be  stuffed  late  the  night  before  it  is  to 
be  cooked.  This  dressing  is  also  used  for  roast  veal,  which  may  be 
stuffed  like  a  fowd  or  the  dressing  may  be  baked  brown  in  the 
oven  and  served  as  a  side  dish. 

HAM  FORCEMEAT. 

Make  precisely  the  same  as  chicken  forcemeat  except  that  you 
take  cold  boiled  ham  and  use  1  teaspoon  French  mustard  in 
place  of  the  nutmeg. 

HUNGARIAN  NOODLES. 

Mrs.    Samuel    Orndorf. 

Cut  enough  of  the  shell  from  the  end  of  a  fresh  egg  to  drop 
the  egg  out ;  add  2  shells  of  milk  and  1  of  water,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt ;  mix  stiff  with  flour.  Roll  out  thin  into  6  small  sheets.  Lay 
the  sheets  on  top  of  each  other,  and  cut  into  strips  ^  of  an  inch 
wide.  Put  aside  to  dry.  Drop  into  boiling  salted  water  and 
cook  till  tender.  Drain.  Sprinkle  1  pound  cottage  cheese  lightly 
through  the  noodles.     Serve  hot,  dusting  with  finely  minced  parsley. 

LIVER  DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.   L.    C.    Laube. 

Grind  3  pounds  of  calf's  or  beef's  liver  witli  a  good  sized 
onion.  Beat  in  it  3  eggs,  add  salt,  pepper  and  spices  to  taste,  and 
about  one  cup  flour  to  hold  it  together.  Drop  by  tablespoons  into 
boiling  beef  broth  or  salted  water,  boil  imtil  done,  place  on  a 
platter,  pour  bread  sauce  over  them  and  serve  with  apple  sauce  in 
a  separate  dish.  .  The  bread  sauce  is  made  by  frying  breadcrumbs 
in  butter,  seasoning  and  adding  milk  enough  to  make  a  sauce.  Let 
boil  up  thoroughly  before  serving. 

NOODLES,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    George   Pargeon. 

Beat  3  eggs  stiff,  add  J  cup  rich  cream  and  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  with  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll 
out  thin  in  a  long  piece;  cut  in  strips  as  fine  as  you  want,  let  dry 
15  minutes,  and  add  to  a  clear  soup  10  minutes  before  serving. 
They  may  also  be  served  in  many  ways  as  macaroni. 


SOUP   GARNISHINGS   AND   FORCEMEATS.  57 

NOODLES,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    D.    L.    Charles. 

Sift  3  cups  flour  with  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  a  little 
salt;  work  together  with  2  eggs,  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  and 
enough   water   to   make   a   stiff   dough. 

0.\TMEAL  STUFFING. 

Toast  1  cup  oatmeal  till  crisp ;  let  get  cool ;  add  2  tablespoons 
finely  chopped  suet,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  a  few  drops  onion 
juice,   salt   and   pepper.     Use   with   boiled   fowl. 

ONION  DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.   Margaret   Einerick. 

Fry  a  pan  of  chopped  onions  till  nearly  done  but  not  brown. 
Pour  in  5  or  0  beaten  eggs,  and  stir  till  cooked.  Have  ready  a 
good  biscuit  dougli.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  for  pies,  cut  in  squares, 
put  one  or  more  spoonfuls  of  the  mixture  on  each  square,  fold 
over  and  press  the  edges  tight,  drop  into  boiling  water,  cover 
and  boil  till  done,  10  or  15  minutes.  Take  up  and  drain.  Brown 
some  breadcrumbs  in  butter,  put  the  turnovers  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
pour  the  butter  and  crumbs  over  them. 

ONION    PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Matthew   Cox. 

Chop  fine  3  large  onions  and  \  pound  suet,  mix  with  1  pint 
flour,  season  with  salt,  tie  in  a  greased  and  floured  bag  and  boil 
2J  hours.     Serve  with   roast   meats. 

ONION   STUFFING. 

1  large  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  Spanish  onions  boiled  till  tender 
and  chopped  fine,  1  beaten  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  4  or  5 
minced  sage  leaves,  and  1  teaspoon  l)Utter.  Use  with  roast  duck  or 
goose. 

OYSTER  STUFFING. 

Wash  and  drain  the  oysters  and  add  them  to  a  plain  stuffing. 
PECAN  STUFFING  FOR  TURKEY. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

Take  bread  crumbs,  cold  boiled  rice,  bacon  chopped  fine,  sweet 
herbs,  celery,  and  lemon  peel  pared  very  thin,  and  cliopped  fine, 
2  dozen  pecans  cut  small,  pepper  and  salt.  Work  all  together 
well  with  the  hands,  binding  with  an  egg,  a  little  melted  butter 
and  a  little  milk.  Put  a  Httle  suet  or  lard  in  a  skillet,  when  liot 
turn  the  dressing  into  it,  and  fry  slightly,  turning  ail  the  while 
to  prevent  burning.  When  cooked  through,  but  not  brown,  turn 
into  a  bowl  and  stuff  the  turkey  witii  it.  It  is  ])etter  if  the  turkey 
lies  stuffed  several  hours  before  roasting. 


58  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

PLAIN    STUFFING; 

Mrs.    James    S.    Leonard. 

Take  stale  bread,  cut  off  all  the  crust,  crumble  well,  mix  it 
with    melted   butter,   seasou   with   pepper,   salt   and   powdered   sage. 

POTATO  STUFFING. 

Take  I  as  much  grated  boiled  potatoes  as  dry  bread  crumbs, 
1  egg,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  pepper,  salt  and  powdered  sage ; 
mix  well. 

RHODE    ISLAND    DUMPLINGS. 

Wet  1  quart  cornmeal  and  I  teaspoon  salt  with  enough  water 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Form  into  little  balls.  Put  in  a  kettle, 
and  pour  boiling  water  over  them.  Boil  briskly  for  1  hour.  Pota- 
toes may  be  cooked  with  them,  and  both  may  be  served  with  meat 
gravy. 

TURKEY  DRESSING. 

Cut  up  several  small  onions  and  fry  them  in  a  pound  of 
bacon  minced  fine.  Cut  the  crust  from  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  grate 
the  loaf,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Mix  up  with 
the  fried  onions  and  bacon  while  hot,  and  stuff  the  fowl. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   Goldie   Harrison. 

Take  2  eggs,  i  cup  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  for  a 
thin  batter.  Pour  some  of  the  gravy  from  roasting  meat  into 
another  hot  dripping  pan,  pour  in  the  pudding,  and  bake  till  brown. 
Cut  in  square  pieces,  and  serve  under  the  meat  or  on  a  separate 
plate.  , 


FISH. 


CLAMS. 

Clams  may  be  cooked  in  all  plain  ways  as  Oysters  are  cooked. 
They  are  in  season  almost -all  year  around. 

DEVILLED   CLAMS. 

Chop  50  clams  very  fine;  chop  fine  2  tomatoes,  1  onion,  a  little 
parsley,  sweet  marjoram  and  thyme ;  mix  with  the  clams,  and 
add  salt,  pepper  and  bread  crumbs ;  add  the  clam  liquor  until  a 
good  thick  paste  is  formed.  Put  in  clam  shells,  or  patty  dishes, 
put  a  lump  of  butter  on  each,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and 
bake  ^  hour. 

ROAST   CLAMS. 

Wash  the  shells  and  put  on  a  gridiron  over  the  hot  coals. 
When  the  shells  open,  remove  the  upper  one  and  serve  in  the 
under  shell  at  once  with  a  little  butter  and  pepper  on  each. 

STEWED   CLAMS. 

Stew  1  qtuirt  clams  in  their  own  liquor  for  several  minutes, 
add  1  tablespoon  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  several  whole  pepper- 
corns, and  stew  15  minutes.  Add  h  cup  cream  and  2  egg  yolks 
well  beaten.     Stir  in  well,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve. 

Mussels  are  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

CLAM    PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

Steam  25  or  .30  clams,  saving  the  liquor.  Butter  a  pudding 
dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  sliced,  then  a  layer 
of  clams,  repeating  until  the  dish  is  full,  finishing  off  with  the 
potatoes.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with  pepper,  salt  and  chopped  pars- 
ley. Thicken  the  liquor  with  a  little  flour,  add  a  piece  of  butter, 
and  pour  this  sauce  over  the  pudding  until  the  dish  is  §  full. 
Cover  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven   for   1  hour. 

BREAKFAST  CODFISH. 

Soak  over  night  a  cup  of  shredded  codfish.  In  the  morning 
drain,  put  it  on  the  stove,  add  a  cupful  cream  or  milk,  and  a 
large  piece  of  butter.  Simmer  slowly  and  stir  well.  Take  off  the 
fire,    pour   over   it    a   beaten    egg,   and   brown    in    the   oven. 

For  Creamed  Codfish,  serve  directly   from  top  of  the  stove. 

59 


60  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

BROILED  CODFISH. 

Soak  a  salt  codfish  in  fresh  water  24  hours,  changing  the  water 
twice.  Just  bring  it  to  the  boil  in  the  last  water,  and  drain.  Dry, 
and  place  on  a  wire  broiler  and  toast  till  brown.  Serve  with  a 
cream    sauce    made    of    cream,    not    milk. 

DUTCH    CODFISH. 

Take  the  bones  from  a  3  pound  piece  of  fresh  codfish.  Put  in 
a  l)uttered  baking  dish,  add  2  peeled  raw  potatoes  cut  in  shapes 
aiound  the  fish;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of 
oriion  juice.  Pour  \  cup  white  wine  around.  Bake  it  in  the 
oven    40    minutes.     Serve    with    chopped    parsley    sprinkled    over. 

SCOTCH   CODFISH. 

Mrs.    Lincoln    Lloyd. 

Take  a  bov/l  of  picked  left  over  codfish.  Add  1  teaspoon 
mustard,  2  well  l^eaten  eggs,  a  little  pepper,  and  flour  enough  tc 
make  it  hold  together.  Make  into  cakes  with  the  hands  and  fry 
in  the  skillet. 

SPANISH  CODFISH. 

Fry  i  pound  clean  raw  rice  in  olive  oil ;  drain  and  put  into  a 
large  baking  pan  ;  take  some  thick  cod  steaks,  fry  them  till  a  golden 
brown,  and  place  them  on  the  rice ;  fry  1  sliced  Spanish  onion 
brown  in  the  same  oil  as  the  fish;  drain  ofif  the  oil,  and  add  6 
large  ripe  seeded  tomatoes  and  cook  with  the  onions  slowly  for 
5  mintites ;  pour  this  over  the  fish;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
lemon  juice,  pour  over  1  pint  good  stock  either  fish  or  meat, 
or  hot  water,  cover  the  pan  and  bake  about  30  minutes  or  until 
done.  Take  out  the  fish  and  stir  the  rest  up  well  on  top  of  the 
stove,  then  turn  on  a  hot  platter  and  place  the  fish  on  top.  Serve 
with   any  good   fish   sauce,  or  with   none. 

Butter  may  be  used  instead  of  oil. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

Mrs.   Gus  Winefordner. 

Cover  the  shredded  codfish  with  cold  water  and  let  stand  at 
least  (i  hours.  Drain,  cover  with  fresh  water,  and  boil  until 
tender.  Drain  and  remove  bones.  Mash  several  freshly  boiled 
potatoes,  mix  with  codfish  and  add  a  small  quantity  of  milk  and 
a  piece  of  butter,  with  pepper  to  taste.  Make  into  cakes,  dip  in 
flour  and  fry  until  brown. 

If  eggs  are  liked,  two  eggs  may  be  beaten  into  the  mixture. 

CODFISH   WITH   EGGS. 

Mrs.    B.    F.    Martin. 

Soak  and  pick  to  pieces  1  cup  codfish,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
drop   from    the   spoon    into   hot   butter  and   fry. 


FISH.  61 

CORXISH  FISH  PIE. 

Skin  the  fish,  take  out  the  hackbone  and  cut  up  or  leave 
whole  according  to  the  size;  flour  it  well,  put  m  a  buttered  dish 
add  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
broth  or  hot  water;  cover  with  a  nice  short  crust,  leave  a  hole 
in  the  top,  and  just  before  taking  up,  pour  some  cream  into  the 
hole. 

DEVILLED   CRABS. 

Pick  out  all  the  meat  from  1  dozen  freshly  boiled  crabs; 
scald  i  pint  cream  ;  stir  in  2  tablespoons  tlour  rubbed  with  1  table- 
spoon'butter;  cook  several  minutes,  take  from  the  fire  and  stir 
in  the  crab  meat,  the  mashed  volks  of  i  hard  boiled  eggs,  1 
tablespoon  chopped  parslev,  ',  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  salt  and 
cayenne  to  taste.  Glean  the  upper  shells,  fill  with  the  mixture, 
brush  with  beaten  ci^g,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  brown 
in  the  oven,  or  fry  in  a  basket  in  boiling  fat. 

Lobster,  halibut,  etc.,  may  be  devilled  in  the  same  way,  using 
2   cups   of   the   meat. 

FRIED  SOFT  SHIiLL  CRABS. 

Remove  the  spongv  parts  under  the  side  joints  and  the  aprons 
from  the  crabs  ;  wash  well  in  cold  water,  dram,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dip  in  cold  milk,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  deep  boiling 
fat  until  a  nice  brown.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt,  put  on  buttered 
toast,  and  decorate  with   (|uarters  of   lemon,   and   with  parsley. 

CRAB  OR  LOBSTER  PATTIES. 
Prepare  a  crab  Newburgh,  fill  the  patty  shells,  and  serve. 

FRIED  EELS. 

Mrs.   James.    S.    Leonard. 

Skin  and  clean  the  eels;  cut  in  3  inch  lengths;  put  in  boiling 
water  with  a  little  vinegar  and  let  simmer  o  minutes.  Drain,  dry 
and  season ;  then  cook  as  any  other  small  fish. 

BAKED  FISH,  XO.  \. 

Take  a  large  fish,  shad,  red  snapper,  rock,  etc.,  scale,  clean  and 
wash  inside  and  out;  stuff  with  plain  dressing,  and  sew  it  up.  Put 
in  a  greased  dripping  pan,  dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  put 
in  1  cup  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  lo  minutes  to 
each  pound,  basting  everv  10  minutes.  If  the  boiling  water  evapo- 
rates, add  more.  Put  carefullv  on  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with 
parsley  and  lemon,  and  serve  with  sauce  HoUandaise,  or  a  white 
sauce  to  which  (if  a  shad)  the  boiled  and  mashed  roe  has  been 
added. 


62  OLD   COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

BAKED  FISH,  NO.  2. 

Put  3  one  pound  slices  fresh  halibut  or  any  large  fish  in  a 
frying  pan  with  ^  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  less 
than  half  as  much  pepper  ;  add  \  cup  water,  and  \  cup  white  wine. 
Cover  with  a  greased  paper,  boil  5  minutes,  then  bake  in  the  oven 
20  minutes.  Take  out,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  the 
following  sauce  poured  over  it :  1  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  with 
1:}  tablespoons  fiour  in  a  hot  saucepan,  the  fish  liquor  strained 
into  this,  1  chopped  hard  boiled  egg  added,  and  1  egg  yolk  beaten 
up  with  2  tablespoons  cream  ;  all  to  be  very  hot  when  served. 

BOILED   FISH. 

Scale  and  clean  the  fish  and  wash  well  in  cold  water ;  wipe  dry, 
and  rub  with  a  little  salt ;  sew  it  up  in  a  single  piece  of  cheese- 
cloth ;  put  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook 
very  slowly,  10  minutes  to  each  pound ;  drain,  turn  on  a  hot  platter, 
and  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  with 
chopped  hard  boiled  eggs,  or  any  favorite  sauce. 

BROILED  FISH. 

Mrs.    Thomas    John. 

Clean,  wash  and  wipe  the  fish  dry,  split  and  take  out  the 
back  bone ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  cook  on  a  hot  buttered  griddle 
until  a  light  brown,  then  turn  and  cook  the  other  side.  Take  up 
on  a  hot  platter,  butter  and  dust  with  pepper,  and  serve  hot. 

ESCALLOPED   FISH. 

Cut  up  any  left  over  white  fish  in  small  dice;  make  a  good 
cream  sauce,  stir  in  the  fish,  turn  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  15  minutes  or  more. 
Grated  cheese  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  instead  of  bread 
crumbs. 

FRIED   FISH. 

Clean,  wash  and  wipe  the  fish  ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  dip  in  eggs 
and  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  (oil  is  best).  Garnish 
with  lemon  and  parsley,  and  serve  with  sauce  Tartare.  They  may 
be  fried  without  the  egg  and  crumbs,  and  may  be  fried  in  a  pan 
with  a  few  slices  of  bacon.  All  small  fish  may  be  cooked  in  this 
way,  also  steaks  of  halibut  and   other  large  fish. 

FISH  BAKED  IN  MILK. 

A    Glasgow    Recipe. 

Take  a  2  pound  piece  of  cod  or  halibut,  wash  and  skin  it, 
and  put  in  a  baking  dish.  Pour  over  it  1^^  cups  milk,  and  a 
dessertspoon  butter  in  bits  ;  dust  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  45  minutes,  basting  with  the  milk.  Take  the  fish  up  on 
a  hot  dish,  pour  the  milk  into  a  saucepan,   moisten   1  tablespoon 


PISH.  63 

flour  with  cold  milk,  stir  into  the  hot  milk  smoothly  till  it  boils; 
add  salt  and  pepper  and  1  teaspoon  butter,  and  pour  over  the  fish. 
Garnish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

FISH   CROQUETTES. 

Dice  li  pounds  cold  boiled  fish  ;  stew  1  small  chopped  onion 
10  minutes  in  IJ  tablespoons  melted  butter;  rub  in  3  tablespoons 
flour,  and  stir  briskly  a  moment;,  add  1  cup  hot  milk  and  I  cup 
fish  or  meat  stock ;  let  boil  5  minutes ;  stir  in  1  teaspoon  each  salt, 
ground  mustard,  Worcestershire  sauce,  2  saltspoons  cayenne  and 
a  pinch  of  nutmeg;  add  2  beaten  egg  yolks,  then  the  fish,  stirring 
well  for  a  few  minutes.  Make  into  croquettes,  fry  and  serve  with 
a  cream   sauce. 

FISH   PIE. 

Place  a  few  slices  of  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  a  pie  dish,  put 
pieces  of  fresh  cod  or  haddock  over  these,  sprinkle  with  minced 
onion  and  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  in  more  layers,  finish- 
ing with  bacon.  Brown  1  tablespoon  flour  with  a  tablespoon  but- 
ter in  a  hot  saucepan,  add  hot  water,  and  a  spoonful  tomato  sauce 
or  Worcestershire.  Pour  over  the  fish,  make  a  rich  crust,  and 
cover  the  dish.  Prick  holes  in  it  with  .a  fork  and  bake  quickly. 
Serve  with  potatoes. 

FISH  TIMBALES. 

Filippini. 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  U  pounds  fresh  fish ;  chop  fine 
and  pound  to  a  pulp  with  2  egg  yolks,  1  light  teaspoon  salt,  half 
as  much  cayenne  pepper,  a  pinch  grated  nutmeg,  and  ^  teaspoon 
anchovy  essence.  Press  through  a  sieve,  and  put  on  ice.  Whip 
I  cup  cream  and  gradually  beat  in  the  fish ;  put  thin  slices  of 
truffles  at  the  bottoms  of  small  cups,  fill  with  the  fish,  put  in  a 
pan  with  hot  water  to  half  their  height,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  20  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour 
a  cream   sauce  around  them. 

FISH  TURBANS. 

Cut  thin  strips  from  the  side  of  a  piece  of  any  large  fish;  re- 
move the  skin,  sprinkle  with  a  highly  seasoned  stuffing,  roll  each 
one  up,  and  fasten  wnth  a  broom  straw  :  put  in  a  pan  in  the  oven 
v>ith  a  verv  little  hot  water,  and  bake  till  flaky.  Serve  with  sauce 
Tartare.     If  no  stuffing  is  used,  grease  the  pan  but  put  no  water. 

FISH  TURBOT. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  together  in  a  hot 
saucepan  ;  stir  in  ^  pint  milk  or  cream  :  wdien  it  boils  add  1  pint 
cold  boiled  fish  chopped,  several  chopped  mushrooms,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Heat  over  steam :  add  1  beaten  egg  yolk,  1  table- 
spoon chopped  parsley,  and  fill  shells.  If  no  mushrooms,  a  few 
drops  onion  juice  will  do. 

Or  the  shells  may  be  sprinkled  v.ith  bread  crumbs  and  browned 
in  the  oven.     This  rnay  also  be  made  in  one  large  dish. 

Lobster  or  crab  meat  may  be  used  instead  of  the  fish, 


64  OLD   COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

FROG  LEGS,  FRIED. 

Cut  off  the  feet  and  otherwise  trim  the  hind  legs  of  frogs 
very  neatly,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour,  then  in 
beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling  fat  (in  a  frying 
basket  if  at  hand)  for  G  or  8  minutes,  drain,  dust  with  salt,  and 
arrange  on  a  hot  dish  with  quartered  lemons  and  parsley  for 
garnishing. 

FINNAN  HADDIE. 

Pick  1  pound  cooked  Finnan  haddie  fine  and  free  from  skin 
and  bone.  Make  2  cups  good  cream  sauce,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
3  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  Edam  cheese,  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Stir  in  the  fish,  and  when  very  hot  serve  on  hot 
toast. 

Ordinary  cheese  may  be  used,  and  fewer  eggs,  if  scarce. 

FINDON  HADDOCK. 

Mrs.   Malcolm  McNeill. 

Freshen  them  a  little  with  cold  water.  Take  a  fish  at  a  time, 
hold  before  the  fire,  lay  it  on  one  hand  and  clap  it  with  the  other, 
beginning  at  the  head.  The  skin  will  come  off  quite  easily.  Put  a 
little  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  put  in  the  fish  and  let  cook  till  brown, 
turning  them.  Serve  hot.  Or  they  may  be  seasoned  and  broiled, 
or  fried  with  bacon. 

BOILED   HALIBUT. 

Cut  steaks  about  2  inches  thick ;  wrap  in  cheesecloth  and  boil 
about  20  minutes  or  till  done.  Serve  with  egg,  cream  or  shrimp 
sauce. 

Cod,   salmon  or   any   large   fish   may   be   boiled   the   same  way. 

BAKED   HERRINGS. 

-  Scale,  wash  and  dry  the  herrings  ;  rub  with  pepper,  cloves  and 
salt ;  lay  in  a  pot,  cover  with  vinegar,  add  a  few  bayleaves,  cover 
tightly,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  cold. 

BOILED   LOBSTER. 

Put  a  live  lobster  head  downward  in  salted  warm  water,  cover, 
and  boil  ^  to  f  hour.  It  will  turn  scarlet.  Take  out,  and  cool. 
Twist  off  the  claws,  remove  the  tail,  shake  out  the  greenish  liver 
and  the  red  coral.  Take  out  of  the  shell,  take  out  the  stomach 
(below  the  head),  and  throw  it  away.  Split  the  body  through  the 
middle,  and  take  the  meat  from  the  cells ;  take  the  meat  from  the 
tail  and  the  claws  in  solid  pieces,  and  throw  away  the  vein  running 
the  length  of  the  tail.  Arrange  on  a  dish,  garnishing  with  the  red 
claws  and  anything  else  the  fancy  suggests.  Serve  cold  with 
French  dressing,  or  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise ;  cook  in  any  way 
desired. 


FISH.  65 

Crabs  are  cooked  in  the  same  way,  and  cleaned  by  taking  oft 
the  stomachs,  the  shells  and  the  spongy  snbstance  on  the  outside, 
and  clearing  from  any  sand.  There  is  less  edible  substance,  and 
also  less  that  is  unsafe.  Serve  in  the  same  way.  They  are  made 
into  the  same  kind  of  dishes. 

BROILED   LOBSTER. 

Get  a  live  lobster  weighing  about  \\  pounds,  cut  off  and  crack 
the  claws,  split  in  two  and  clean  out  the  head;  season  with  salt, 
paprika  and  olive  oil,  and  broil  over  a  brisk  fire,  cut  part  upward, 
10  minutes ;  remove  and  bake  10  minutes.  Bake  the  claws  the 
whole  time  the  lobsters  are  cooking.  Spread  with  maitre  d'hotel 
butter,  and  serve  with  quarters  of  lemon. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURGH. 

Take  the  meat  of  one  boiled  lobster  diced  or  1  pint  can;  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  large  lump  of  butter,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper  to  taste ;  stir  till  hot.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  J 
pint  cream,  add  1  gill  sherry,  pour  over  the  lobster  and  let  sim- 
mer till   thoroughly   hot,   then   serve. 

Crab  meat  may  be  treated  the  same  way. 

Oysters  should  be  stewed  5  minutes  in  their  own  liquor  with 
a  little  water  and  salt,  drained  and  finished  as  above. 

BOILED  SALT  MACKEREL. 

Soak  the  mackerel  over  night  in  cold  water.  Put  in  a  skillet 
with  1  quart  hot  water,  and  let  boil  10  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  melted  butter  over  it,  and  decorate  with  parsley. 

BROILED  SALT   MACKEREL. 

Wash  and  soak  as  for  boiling.  Rub  with  melted  butter,  season 
with  pepper,  lay  on  a  broiler  greased  with  suet,  and  broil  the  in- 
side first,  then  turn  and  broil  the  skin  side  without  burning. 
Spread  with  butter,  or  serve  with  maitre  d'hotel  sauce. 

Smoked  salmon  should  be  soaked  in  warm  water  on  the  stove 
l;  hour,  and  then  broiled  the  same  as  mackerel. 

MOCK  CAVIARE. 

Bone  and  pound  some  anchovies  together  with  a  little  dried 
parsley,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  little  red  pepper,  salt,  lemon  juice  and 
oil.     Serve  on  toast. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Drain  the  oysters  and  wipe  dry.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
roll  in  oil  or  melted  butter,  put  in  a  double  broiler,  and  broil  over 
a  brisk  iire  4  minutes  on  each  side.  Put  on  fresh  slices  of  toast 
on  a  platter,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over,  decorate  with  quar- 
tered lemons  and  parsley. 

5 


66  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS  ON  TOAST. 

Mrs.    Margaret    Murday. 

Wash  and  drain  1  pint  oysters.  Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a 
granite  saucepan,  rub  into  it  1  level  tablespoon  flour,  add  slowly 
still  stirring  1}  pints  milk  and  let  cook  until  thick.  Put  in  the 
oysters,  add  salt  to  taste,  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over 
hot  buttered  toast  on  a  platter.     Serve  immediately. 

ESCALLOPED    OYSTERS. 

Mrs.    Kerr    W.    Rittenhouse. 

Drain  1  quart  oysters  and  remove  all  bits  of  shell.  Take  1 
large  cup  cracker  crumbs,  cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  l)aking 
dish  with  the  crumbs,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter ; 
then  a  layer  of  oysters  seasoned  likewise ;  repeat  imtil  they  are 
all  used,  putting  crackers  last.  Put  a  larger  quantity  of  butter  on 
top,  and  pour  over  the  oyster  liquor ;  also  a  cup  of  new  milk  or 
part  cream  and  milk.     Allow  room  to  rise.     Bake  J  hour  uncovered. 

FRIED   OYSTERS. 

Mr.s.    James    S.    Leonard. 

Drain  the  oysters  and  remove  pieces  of  shell ;  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  quickly  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
little  hot  butter.     Brown  both  sides  and  take  up. 

Fried  oysters  are  nice  served  on  hot  toasts,  with  slices  of 
thin   crisp   bacon   over   them. 

Mussels  and  clams  may  be  fried  as  oysters.  . 

MARYLAND  STEWED  OYSTERS. 

Put  the  liquor  into  a  saucepan  and  let  simmer,  skimming  it 
carefully.  Rub  the  yolks  of  3  hard  boiled  eggs  and  1  large  spoon- 
ful flour  together,  and  stir  into  the  liquor  till  smooth.  Cut  in 
fieces  \  pound  butter,  add  with  ^  teaspoon  whole  allspice,  a  little 
.'-"alt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  a  fresh  lemon  ;  let  all 
simmer  10  minutes,  add  2  quarts  oysters,  let  get  heated  through 
and   serve. 

PANNED  OYSTERS. 

Put  the  oysters  in  a  colander,  pour  cold  water  over  them  ar.d 
drain.  Put  into  a  hissin?  hot  frying  pan  over  a  quick  fire,  au'l 
shake  and  stir  till  they  boil  :  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of 
butter,  and  take  up  immediately  on  a  hot  plate. 

ROAST  OYSTERS. 

Put  oyster  shells  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  and  heat  very  hot ;  put 
a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper  in  each  and  when  hot.  drop  in  th» 
oyster,  turning  it  over  and  serving  in  the  shell  after  1  minute. 


FISH.  67 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 

Mrs.  Mark  Stacker. 

Mix  together  2  tablespoons  each  of  tomato  catsup,  grated 
horseradish  and  lemon  juice.  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce, 
7  or  8  drops  of  tabasco  sauce  and  a  little  salt.  Have  the  oysters 
very  cold;  put  in  small  glasses,  pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

OYSTER  COCKTAILS   IN   PEPPERS. 

Mrs.    R.    :\I.    Connell. 

Cut  green  peppers  in  half  lengthwise  and  soak  for  an  hour 
in  salt  water,  and  a  few  moments  in  fresh.  Fill  with  oyster  cock- 
tails, heaping  red  catsup  on   tup. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Mrs.     Mark     Stecker. 

Drain  25  oysters  and  chop  fnu'.  Beat  2  eggs,  add  1  cup  milk, 
and  a  scant  pint  of  sifted  flour;  beat  smooth  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Stir  in  the  oysters  adding  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Mix   well,  and   drop  by  tablespoons   into   hot  butter   to   fry. 

OYSTER   PATTIES. 

Miss  Uarda   Thompson. 

Take  1  quart  flour,  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  and  rub  to- 
gether, having  sifted  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  the  flour;  add 
enough  ice  cold  water  to  form  paste:  roll  thin  and  bake  in  muffin 
pans.  Rub  together  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour,  stir 
into  1  pint  hot  cream  luitil  smooth,  seasoning  well  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Add  the  oysters  and  let  simmer  until  they  are  heated  through, 
fill  the  heated  shells  and  serve  immediately. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

"The   Housekeeper's  Friend." 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  put  it  on  to  boil  with 
butter,  pepper,  a  thickening  of  breadcrumbs  and  milk  well  beaten 
together ;  after  boiling  a  few  minutes  throw  in  the  oysters.  Let 
them  get  just  heated  through,  take  off  the  stove,  and  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Line  a  buttered  dish  with  paste,  and  fill 
with  white  paper  to  support  a  lid  of  paste  and  bake  it.  When* 
nicely  browned,  take  off  the  lid,  pour  in  the  oysters,  set  a  few 
minutes  in  the  oven,  and  serve  hot.  This  may  also  be  baked  in 
individual  pies. 

OYSTERS  ON  THE  HALF  SHELL. 

Wash  the  shells,  take  off  the  upper  one,  put  half  a  dozen 
on  a  plate  on  cracked  ice,  and  serve  with  a  piece  of  lemon  \x\ 
the  middle, 


68  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

BROILED  SALMON. 

Cut  the  steaks  1  inch  thick,  wash  and  dry,  iM-oil  over  a  clear 
fire  until  each  side  is  brown.  Put  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  with 
butter,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper  on  both  sides,  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

Slices  of  halibut,  cod,  or  other  large  fish  may  be  cooked  in 
the  same  way. 

STEAMED  SALMON. 

Pick  1  can  of  salmon  into  nice  pieces,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  lemon  juice,  add  1  cup  cream  plain  or  whipped,  and  beat  till 
smooth  ;  then  steam  in  a  well  greased  mould  45  minutes.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve 
mashed    potatoes    or    potato   balls    with    it,    and    sai'cc    Ilollandaise. 

SALMON  CAKES. 

Mrs.    Joseph    Brooks. 

1  can  of  salmon  chopped  fine ;  i  pound  of  finely  rolled  crackers. 
Mix  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Make  into  small  cakes 
and   fry   until   brown.      Serve   hot. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.    Charles    Stewart. 

Clean  1  can  salmon  from  bones  and  skin,  chop  fine,  add  1  cup 
breadcrumbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  1  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  hot  saucepan,  add  1  heaping  teaspoon  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  enough  milk  to  thicken.  Boil  a  couple  of  minutes,  and  mix 
with  the  salmon  into  a  thick  paste.  When  cold  and  stiff,  make 
into  rolls  about  the  size  of  eggs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  or  lard. 

SALMON  JELLY. 

Break  the  salmon  into  flakes:  season  with  allspice,  nunneg, 
salt  and  pepper;  fill  a  mould  with  alternate  layers  of  aspic  jelly 
and  salmon ;  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish,  and  garnish  with  lettuce  and 
hard   boiled   eggs. 

SALMON  LOAF. 

Mrs.   Isaac   Brandt. 

Mix  well  together  2  cans  of  salmon,  1  cup  of  rolled  crackers. 
3  eggs  and  1  teaspoon  melted  butter.  Bake  |  hour  in  a  deep 
greased  pan,  placed  in  a  larger  pan  of  water.  Serve  hot  or  cold 
with    the    following   dressing : 

Dissolve  1  tablespoon  cornstarch  in  a  cup  of  milk,  boil  and 
stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken ;  stir  in  the  oil  from  the  cans  of 
salmon  and  1  egg;  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  i  a  lemon 
and   a   little   chopped   parsley. 


FISH.  69 

SALMON  PATTIES. 

Take  ^  can  salmon,  flake  it  and  mix  over  the  fire  with  rather 
more  than  i-  pint  of  a  good  cream  dressing ;  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  anchovy  sauce  (if  at  hand),  and  a  few  olives  chopped 
fine.  Fill  the  hot  patty  cases,  if  served  hot;  if  not,  let  cool  before 
filling  them. 

DEVILLED  SARDINES. 

Prepare  six  pieces  buttered  toast.  Put  2  split  sardines  on 
each  piece.  Spread  a  little  French  mustard  on  the  sardines, 
sprinkle  with  1  tablespoon  bread  crumbs,  put  1  tablespoon  butter 
over  them  in  bits,  place  on  a  pan,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  10 
minutes.     Serve  with   quartered  lemons   on  the  dish. 

SCALLOPS. 

Scallops  may  be  washed,  drained  and  cooked  5  minutes  in  a 
cream  sauce.  Or  they  may  be  scalded,  drained,  dried,  and  dipped 
in   egg,  then   in   breadcrumbs,   and   fried   in  boiling   fat. 

SHAD  ROE. 

Filippini. 

Take  about  2.}  pounds  fresh  shad  roes;  put  in  a  lightly  but- 
tered skillet  with  2  tablespoons  each  white  wine  and  sherry,  i  table- 
spoon butter,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  each  pepper  and  nutmeg. 
Cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper.  Put  over  the  fire  for  5  minutes, 
then  in  the  oven  for  3o  minutes.  Take  out  the  roes  carefully 
without  breaking,  place  them  on  a  large  dish,  put  the  pan  on  the 
fire,  add  f  cup  cream,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne,  and  let  boil  5 
minutes ;  add  2  egg  yolks  beaten  up  with  2  tablespoons  cream, 
stirring  briskly  while  heating  for  3  minutes.  Strain  the  sauce 
through  a  cheesecloth  over  the  roes  and  serve. 

SHAD  ROE  A  LA  NEWBURGH. 

Plunge  2  shad  roes  of  1^  pounds  each  in  a  quart  boiling  water, 
with  1  teaspoon  salt  and  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  and  boil  10 
minutes ;  drain,  cut  in  1  inch  pieces,  and  finish  as  lobster.  New- 
burgh,   taking  care  not  to  break  the  pieces. 

SHRIMPS  WITH  PEAS. 

Mrs.  John    D.    Araitin. 

Drain  a  pint  can  French  peas,  plunge  in  l)oiling  water  for 
2  minutes,  drain  again  and  keep  warm.  Make  a  good  cream 
sauce,  add  1  can  shrimps  cut  in  halves,  cook  5  minutes,  put  in  the 
peas,  get  boiling  hot  and  serve. 

SOUSED  STURGEON. 

Mrs.    Hugh    Ewing. 

Cut  the  fish  in  large  pieces  and  put  in  an  iron  pot  with 
water   sufiicient  to  cover  it.     Add  a  cup  salt   and  tablespoon   white 


70  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

pepper,  one  of  cloves  and  allspice  mixed,  a  pinch  of  mace  and 
a  small  bunch  of  sage  tied  in  a  thin  rag,  and  put  in  before 
the  fish.  Let  all  boil  until  the  fish  is  nearly  done.  Then  add  a 
quart  of  cold  vinegar.  It  will  jelly  in  '24  hours.  A  rock  soused 
is   delicious. 

STEWED  TERRAPIN. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Put  2  liver  terrapins  in  boiling  water  and  boil  1-j  minutes. 
Pull  off  the  outer  skin  and  toe  nails,  put  back  in  fresh  boiling 
water,  add  salt,  and  boil  slowly  till  the  shells  part  easily.  Take 
out,  remove  the  under  shell,  and  let  cool  off.  Take  them  out  of 
the  upper  shells ;  remove  carefully  the  sandbags,  bladders,  thick 
intestines,  and  the  gall  sacks  which  are  in  the  liver ;  throw  these 
away.  Break  the  terrapin  into  small  pieces,  cut  the  small  intestines 
fine,  put  all  with  the  broken  up  liver  and  the  eggs.  Add  the  liquor 
that  has  drained  in  cutting,  roll  ^  pound  butter  in  flour,  and  add  it. 
and  heat  through.  Mash  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  with  2  tablespoons 
sherry,  stir  it  in  with  J  pint  thick  cream,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Let  boil  up  once,  take  off,  add  1  gill  wine  and  i  teaspoon  mace, 
and  serve. 

PLANKED  WHITE  FISH. 

Mrs.    J.    W.    Ilolleran. 

Take  a  fish  that  weighs  between  3  and  4  pounds,  wash  well, 
scrape  and  split  clear  down  the  whole  length,  removing  the  back- 
bone without  loosening  the  meat  too  much  ;  tack  to  a  plank,  inside 
up,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter. 
Bake  in  the  oven  from  20  to  30  minutes,  not  letting  it  cook  too 
long.  Serve  with  quarters  of  lemon.  It  is  that  much  better  if 
it  can  be   roasted  before  a  clear  fire. 

Shad  is  good  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


MEATS. 


AUXT    BRIDGET'S   FAMILY    STEW. 

:Mrs.    W.    B.    Ward. 

Place  in  a  roaster  a  layer  of  thin  round  steak,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour.  Slice  a  small  onion  over 
the  meat,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes,  again  season  and  dredge, 
making  as  many  layers  as  desired.  Fill  up  the  pan  with  water. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  about  1   hour,  adding  water  as  necessary. 

BACON. 

Trim  the  bacon  all  around  and  slice  very  thin  crosswise.  Broil 
over  a  moderate  fire  2  minutes  on   each  side.     Serve  immediately. 

To  fry  bacon,  get  a  very  little  butter  hot  in  a  pan,  and  fry 
the  bacon  2  minutes  on  each  side.     Never  let  it  stand. 

BOILED  BEEF. 

Select  a  4  pound  piece  of  short  ribs  of  beef.  Tie  it  tightly 
and  put  in  a  pot  with  4  quarts  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  salt,  i 
teaspoon  pepper,  4  small  scraped  carrots,  4  small  peeled  turnips, 
2  onions,  and  a  bunch  of  soup  herbs.  Cover  and  simmer  for  2^ 
hours.  Serve  the  vegetables  on  the  same  dish  as  the  meat.  Keep 
the   broth    for    future   use. 

BRAISED  BEEF. 

Miss  Johanna   Feeney. 

Put  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  kettle  over  a  good  fire,  and 
brown  in  it  1  sliced  onion :  put  in  3  or  4  pounds  solid  lean 
beef,  brown  on  both  sides,  then  add  1  small  carrot  sliced,  1  cup 
canned  tomatoes,  and  from  1  pint  to  1  quart  of  water  according 
to  the  size  and  tenderness  of  the  meat.  Boil  slowly  a  couple  of 
hours.  Take  out  and  serve  with  a  gravy  made  from  the  liquor 
left   in   the   pot. 

BROILED  BEEFSTEAK. 

Mix  1  tablespoon  melted  butter  with  1  teaspoon  salt  and  \  tea- 
spoon pepper;  trim  a  small  steak  neatly  and  roll  in  this  dress- 
ing ;  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  over  a  good  fire  G  to  8  minutes 
on  each  side,  turning  to  avoid  scorching.  Serve  with  any  dressing 
liked.  Or  broil  without  the  previous  dressing,  browning  both 
sides,  but  being  careful  not  to  cook  through.  Put  on  a  hot 
platter,  and  baste  both  sides  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  press- 
ing  slightly  to  release  the  juices. 

71 


72  OLD    COUNTRY   RFXIPES   AND   NEW. 

With  certain  gas  ranges  which  do  not  permit  of  broiling 
properly  speaking,  a  good  substitute  is  to  get  a  skillet  quite  hot, 
and  put  the  steak  in,  searing  it  on  both  sides,  and  cooking  as 
quickly  as  possible. 

MINCED  BEEF. 

Cut  1  do'cn  thin  slices  from  a  thick  sirloin  steak.  Dust  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Cut  6  Spanish  red  peppers  in  halves,  and  fry 
in  2  tablespoons  hot  butter  for  '2  minutes  on  each  side.  Take  out 
to  a  hot  plate.  Put  the  beef  in  the  pan  and  fry  1  minute  on  each 
side,  take  out  with  a  fork  and  arrange  on  a  hot  dish  the  pieces 
overlapping,  place  the  peppers  on  top,  and  sprinkle  chopped  parsley 
over  them.  Remove  the  fat  from  the  pan,  add  1  cup  half  water 
and  half  red  wine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  boil  for  five  minutes, 
pour  over  the  beef   and  serve. 

SPICED  BEEF. 

Put  2  pounds  tender  lean  beef  in  a  saucepan  with  1  cup  each 
of  wine  and  water,  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  cinnamon,  pepper,  salt 
and  onions ;  cover  the  saucepan  tight ;  place  over  a  slow  fire  for 
2  hours ;  take  the  meat  from  the  gravy  and  let  cool.  To  be  served 
cold. 

STUFFED  BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut  a  large  juicy  beefsteak  from  the  tender  side  of  the  round, 
pound  it,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  a  stuffing  as  for  fowls 
on  it  quite  thickly  and  roll  up,  tying  it  securely.  Put  in  a  dripping 
pan  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Let  it  stew  slowly  for  2  or  3  hours, 
adding  boiling  water  if  more  is  needed.  The  gravy  should  not 
need  thickening,  but  a  glass  of  wine  is  a  good  addition.  Serve  with 
the  gravy  in  a  boat. 

BEEF  A  LA  BOURGEOISE. 

Slice  1  pound  or  more  of  cold  boiled  beef  quite  fine  and  put 
in  a  baking  dish.  Brown  1  chopped  onion  in  a  little  butter,  sprinkle 
with  1  tablespoon  flour  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  stir  well  and 
add  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  and  1  cup  stock  or  hot  water.  Let 
boil  a  moment  and  pour  over  the  meat ;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs 
and  bake  J-  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

The  lemon  may  be  omitted  and  J  cup  tomato  sauce,  or  thick 
stewed  tomatoes  added. 

BEEF  A  LA  SAGERS. 

Miss   Beall   Ewing. 

Rub  the  bottom  of  a  chafing  dish  or  saucepan  with  garlic,  melt 
in  it  1  tablespoon  butter ;  add  2  tablespoons  wine,  1  tablespoon  each 
catsup  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  I  teaspoon  salt.  When 
cooking,  put  in  thin  slices  cold  roast  beef,  and  serve  when  very 
hot. 


MEATS.  73 

REEF  CROQUETTES. 

Chop  «ne  any  left  over  beef,  add  half  the  quantity  of  bread 
crumbs.  Frv  1  finely  chopped  onion  in  a  saucepan  \vitli  A  tame- 
spoon  butter  until-  brown,  mix  with  the  beef;  also  1  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley.  1  teaspoon  salt,  |  teaspoon  white  pepper,  and 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Crack  in  2  raw  eggs  and  'l  tf  Icspoons 
cream,  and  mix  hard  for  5  minutes.  Let  stand  till  well  set,  then 
roll  out  into  croquettes,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  a  skillet  with 
a  little  lard  or  butter.  Turn,  remove,  drain,  and  serve  with  horse- 
radish sauce  around  them. 

BEEF   DUMPLING. 

Mrs.   John   White    (Plummer  Hill). 

Make  a  paste  as  for  pie;  peel  and  slice  2  large  onions  and 
2  large  potatoes,  cut  1  pound  beefsteak  in  small  pieces,  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper,  till  in  the  paste,  tie  up  in  a  floured  cloth,  and 
let  boil  for  2  hours. 

BEEF  EN   CASSEROLE. 

Miss   Johanna   Feeney. 

1  pound  tender  side  of  the  round  of  beef  cut  in  i  inch  pieces; 
frv  brown  in  butter  in  a  saucepan;  have  a  casserole  ready,  put  in 

1  dozen  button  onions,  a  couple  raw  potatoes,  1  stalk  celery,  and 

2  small  carrots  all  coarsely  diced;  turn  in  the  mgat  and  gravy, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  cover  with  the  lid  and  bake  2  hours. 
When  done,  brown  1  tablespoon  flour  with  1  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  hot  saucepan  and  mix  through  the  stew.  Brown  stock  may 
be  used  to  advantage  in  place  of  water,  and  brown  gravy  stirred 
in  instead  of  the  browned  flour. 

Tough  meat  or  fowl  of  any  kind  is  improved  by  long  baking 

in  a  casserole.  __   ^^  ,  ^^^ 

BEEF   HASH. 

Dice  any  left  over  roast  or  boiled  beef,  and  half  the  quantity 
of  cold  sliced  potatoes.  Brown  a  finely  chopped  onion  with  a 
little  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  beef  and  potatoes,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  cup  of  white  broth  or  hot  water  Cover 
and  stew  a  few  minutes,  then  remove  to  the  oven  and  bake  JO  or 
more  minutes.  Remove  to  a  covered  dish,  sprinkle  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve.  Or  dress  on  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs,  baste  with  butter,  and  brown  for  10  minutes  in  the 
oven  The  onion  mav  be  omitted,  if  desirable,  and  cold  rice  is 
quite  as  acceptable  as  "potatoes.  Tomato  juice  from  a  can  is  better 
than  water,  and  left  over  cooked  tomatoes  (unless  sweetened) 
make  a- good  addition,  as  do  small  quantities  of  many  cooked  vege- 
tables.    A  mixture  of  cold  meats  is  also  good. 

BEEF  LOAF,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    P.   R.    Sines. 

Take  1  pound  raw  lean  beef  chopped  fine.  1  cup  chopped  suet, 
1  cup  rolled  cracker  crumbs,  2  eggs  beaten  light,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 


74  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well 
together,  pack  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  1^  hours.  Serve  hot 
or   sliced  cold. 

BEEF  LOAF,  NO.   2. 

Mrs.    Thomas     Watkins. 

Chop  3  pounds  lean  raw  beef  fine,  mix  with  1  cup  chopped  suet, 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  2  eggs  beaten  light.  1  cup  sweet  milk,  butter 
size  of  an  e^g,  salt  and  pepper.  Pack  in  a  bread  pan,  and  bake 
1^  hours. 

BEEF  ROASTED  IN  THE  OVEN. 

Take  at  least  3  pounds,  either  ribs  or  sirloin,  place  it  in  a  bak- 
ing pan,  dust  with  pepper,  and  put  1  teaspoon  salt  in  the  pan  with 
1  cup  water.  Put  in  a  very  hot  oven,  baste  every  10  minutes, 
turn  several  times,  and  cook  15  minutes  to  each  pound.  Take  up 
on  a  hot  platter,  and  garnish  v/ith  hot  boiled  rice  or  potatoes 
roasted  in  the  pan,  or  Yorkshire  pudding.  Pour  the  liquid  out  of 
the  pan  except  about  2  tablespoons,  add  1  tablespoon  flour  to  the 
pan  and  mix  till  smooth,  add  1  cup  hot  water,  stir  till  it  boils, 
then  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

BEEFSTEAK    PIE. 

Mrs.     Maitland    Murday. 

Get  2  ponflds  good  steak,  cut  into  pieces  about  3  inches  square, 
slice  1  onion  with  it,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  Vvater  enough  to 
stew  it,  cover  and  bake  from  \  to  |  hour.  Make  a  good  piecrust 
with  either  lard  or  xtvy  finely  minced  suet,  take  the  pie  out,  edge 
the  pan  with  a  narrow  strip  of  paste,  wet  the  edge  with  cold 
water,  and  put  on  a  top  cover,  pressing  down  the  edge  tight. 
Make  a  good  hole  in  the  centre,  and  bake  till  the  crust  is  done. 
If  the  water  has  boiled  off  when  the  crust  is  put  on,  add  a  little 
boiling  water.  A  beef's  kidney,  sliced  very  thin,  is  considered 
a  good   addition   by   some. 

BEEFSTEAK  ROLLS. 

Cut  2  pounds  beef  from  the  tender  side  of  the  round  in  slices 
about  :\  inch  thick;  cut  these  up  in  pieces  the  size  of  one's  hand. 
Chop  1  pound  sausage  meat  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and 
place  2  tablespoons  on  each  piece  of  beef  ;  roll  the  steaks  and  tie 
both  ends  with  thread.  Let  them  brown  in  butter  in  a  skillet, 
then  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  2  cups  brown  stock,  2  sliced  carrots 
and  onions,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  the  pan  and  cook  about 
2  hours.  Put  the  rolls  on  a  warm  platter,  cut  away  the  threads, 
and  strain  the  gravy  over  them.  Serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and 
a  good  salad. 

BEEFSTEAK  SMOTHERED  WITH  ONIONS. 

Broil  the  steak,  place  on  a  hot  platter  and  cover  with  smothered 
onions. 


MEATS.  '?5 


BTTOCKS. 


Take  2  poiiiuls  loan  beef  fmni  tlic  shoulder;  chop  fine ;  soak 
1  pounxi  l)read  crumlis  in  milk  till  soft ;  mix  with  the  beef  Alake 
the  mixture  into  cakes  with  the  hands,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  a 
little  hot  butter  in  a  skillet  for  about  10  mmutes.  Take  out  but 
keep  hot.  Rub  into  the  pan  2  tal)lespoons  flour,  add  1  pmt  milk, 
1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes. 
Pour  this  over  the  meat,  and  bake  in  the  oven  till  brown. 

BROWN   STEW  WITH  DU.MPLIXGS. 

Mrs.  Bradrick. 
Put  "^  tablespoons  butter  in  a  hot  skillet  over  a  good  fire  ;  cut 
9  pounds  of  beef  from  the  tender  side  of  the  round  into  pieces  an 
inch  square:  dredge  thicklv  with  flour;  put  in  the  hot  butter,  and 
stir  until  nicelv  browned.  Skim  the  meat  out  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  Add'  1  tablespoon  flour  to  the  gravy  in  the  frying  pan, 
miv  and  add  1  quart  boiling  water;  stir  until  it  boils,  then  strain 
over  the  meat.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  simmer  2  hours.  When 
half  done  add  1  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  1  pint  flour  twice  with  1 
heapin<^  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  \  teaspoon  salt:  add  enough 
milk  fa  little  over  *  cup)  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Do  not  work 
it  much  Drop  by  small  spoonfuls  over  the  top  of  the  meat; 
cover  quicklv,  pus+i'  back  the  saucepan  and  simmer  10  mmutes  with- 
out uncovering  the  stew.     Serve  at  once. 

CALF'S  BRAINS. 
Prepare    as    sweetbreads,    and    parboil.     Cut    in    small    pieces, 
bread  and   fry.     They   are   often   added  to   other   meats   m   making 
croquettes. 

CHIPPED    BEEF    AND   TOMATO    SAUCE. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Thackara. 
Remove  the  seeds  of  a  green  pepper  and  chop  fine;  brown  in 
butter  with  a  finely  chopped  onion.  Cover  some  finely  chipped 
beef  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  and  when  it  boils,  dram  off 
the  water,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  when 
it  has  cooked  several  minutes,  add  the  pepper  and  onion,  with 
a  dessertspoon  tomato  catsup;  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast. 

CHOP   SUEY. 

"Dainty  Dishes." 

Take  1  cup  cold  chicken,  \  cup  cold  veal,  2  onions,  i  cup  celery. 

\  cup  mushrooms,  all  chopped,  and  1  tablespoon  butter.     Mix  well 

together    cover,    and    cook    slowly   until    done.     Add    1    tablespoon 

Chinese  'suey  sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot. 

CORNED  BEEF  HASH,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    H.    W.    Miller. 
Take  cold  cooked   corn   beef,   remove   all   surplus   fat   and  bits 
of  '^ri'stle,  chop  fine,  and  season  with   salt  and  pepper.     To  h  meat 


76  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

add  S  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  1  onion  all  chopped  very  fine  ;  put 
into  a  baking-  pan,  dredge  thickly  with  flour,  and  pour  in  at  the 
side  enough  water  to  come  up  level  with  the  hash  ;  place  in  the 
oven  and  do  not  stir.  When  the  flour  is  a  light  brown  and  has 
formed  a  crust,  take  out,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  stir  it  through 
several  times,  and  you  will  have  a  delicious  hash. 

Cold  meat  of  any  kind  may  be  hashed  the  same  way. 

CORNED  BEEF  HASH,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    King. 

Take  2  pounds  fat  corned  beef,  boiled  and  cold;  1  pound  cold 
boiled  potatoes  ;  1  large  white  onion  ;  put  all  in  chopping  tray  and 
mince  fine.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste;  add  boiling  water  to  soften  it.  Stir  over  a  slow  fire  till 
the  onion  is  cooked.     Take  up  in  a  hot  covered  dish,  and  serve. 

DRIED  BEEF. 

Mrs.    Gus    Winefordner. 

Cut  fine,  boil  10  minutes,  drain.  Bring  1^  cups  milk  to  the  boil. 
Mix  a  lump  of  butter  with  same  amount  of  flour  and  stir  into  the 
milk  until  smooth  ;  add  the  dried  beef  and  when  boiling  hot  pour 
over  slices   of  buttered  toast.     Pepper  to  taste. 

DRIED  BEEF  WITH   CHEESE  AND  TOMATOES. 

Mrs.   John   D.    Martin. 

Chop  fine  1  jar  of  dried  beef,  add  1  cup  tomatoes  and  \  cup 
grated  cheese,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper.  Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  turn  the  mixture  into  this,  and 
when  hot  add  3  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Cook  until  creamy,  stirring 
constantly,  and  scraping  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

DUTCH  MESS. 

Mrs.   Lydia  Z.   Knight. 

Chop  fine  1  pound  each  of  veal  and  lean  beef,  ^  pound  ham, 
1  small  onion  and  1  sprig  parsley.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  mix  well  together  with  2  beaten  eggs  and  ^  pint  bread  crumbs. 
Form  into  a  loaf  and  put  in  a  baking  pan.  Brown  a  small  chopped 
onion  in  butter,  add  \  can  tomatoes,  season  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  cook  thoroughly  and  strain  over  the  loaf.  Bake  about  1 
hour. 

DUTCH  STEW^ 

Put  1  dessertspoon  dripping  in  a  deep  pan  ;  wlien  smoking  hot 
add  1  sliced  onion,  and  when  brown  1  pound  mutton.  Put  a 
tight  lid  on  and  let  simmer  ^  hour ;  cut  1  small  cabbage  in  chunks, 
soak  ^  hour  in  cold  water ;  peel  and  cut  in  coarse  slices  6  pota- 
toes, and  wash  in  cold  water ;  lift  the  potatoes  out  of  the  water 
and  pack  them  dripping  around  the  meat;  lift  the  cabbage  out 
and  pack  it  dripping  on  top ;  season  each  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  the  lid  on  close  and  steam  till  the  cabbage  is  tender  —  about 
1  hour.  Take  the  meat  up  on  a  hot  platter,  and  put  the  vegetables 
around  it. 


MEATS.  11 

FAGGOTS,   NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Jas.     N.     Mills. 

Take  1  pig's  liver,  scald  and  chop  line ;  add  about  2  slices  of 
bread,  crumbed,  4  or  5  chopped  raw  onions,-  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Take  a  pig's  apron,  cut  in  squares,  put  a  large  spoonful  of 
this  mixture  on  eacli  piece,  fold  it  up  closely  and  place  side  by 
side  in  a  dripping  pan,  with  water  to  half  cover  them,  and  bake 
till   brown.     Serve   hot. 

FAGGOTS,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.   H.   D.   Lewis. 

1  pig's  liver  chopped  fnie  or  run  throuf^h  the  grinder,  -S  onions 
chopped  fine  in  a  wooden  bowl,  pepper,  salt  and  sage  to  taste;  2 
heaping  mixing  spoonfuls  of  flour  to  stick  the  rest  together;  mix 
all  thoroughly.  Cut  a  pig"s  apron  in  small  squares,  put  1  table- 
spoon of  the  mixture  on  each,  wrap  up.  lay  close  together  in  a 
dripping  pan,  fill  with   water,  and  cook  20  minutes  or  till  brown. 

BAKED  HAM. 

Mrs.     Isabel     Hall     Tedrow. 

Soak  the  ham  over  night  in  cold  water ;  next  morning  skin, 
rub  with  brown  sugar,  stick  in  a  few  cloves,  and  cover  with  a 
paste  made  of  3  cups  flour  mixed  with  water  enough  to  roll  out, 
and  sprinkled  with  brown  sugar.  Bake  3  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 
The  paste  can  all  be  cracked  off  with  a  knife. 

BOILED  HAM. 

Mrs.    Henry    Spencer. 

Boil  a  ham  with  the  skin  on  in  a  porcelain  lined  kettle  until 
a  fork  may  be  run  in  easily.  Keep  covered  with  water  all  the 
time.  Take  from  the  fire  and  peel.  Put  in  a  pan  with  the  fat 
side  up.  Score  the  fat  deeply  until  the  knife  reaches  the  lean 
portion,  then  fill  the  openings  with  brown  sugar  moistened  with 
wine  or  water.  Stick  whole  cloves  over  the  surface,  and  bake 
for  a  half  hour  in  a  very  slow  oven.  When  cold  put  in  a  crock 
and  cover  tight.  Will  keep  moist  for  a  week.  Or  boil  in  cider, 
skin,  brush  with  beaten  egg,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

BROILED  HAM. 

Cut  in  slices  i  inch  thick ;  trim  the  edges :  broil  over  a  clear 
fire  not  over  10  minutes,  turning.  Put  small  bits  of  butter  on  the 
slices  when  served,  and  dust  with  pepper. 

FRIED   HAM. 

Put  thin  slices  of  ham  in  a  hot  frying  pan,  and  fry  in  their 
own  fat  about  10  minutes.  Serve  with  a  cream  gravy  made  in  the 
pan,  if  any  gravy  is  wanted.  Eggs  served  with  the  ham  should 
be  fried  after  it  in  the  hot  fat,  and  laid  on  the  slices  in  a  hot 
dish. 


78  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW.' 

HAM  AND  EGG  PIE. 

Mrs.   Isabel    Urquhart. 

Take  slices  of  good  boiled  ham  and  chop  fine.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  a  pie  pan  lined  with  good  paste.  Beat  2  eggs  up  hard, 
mix  in  a  cup  of  milk,  and  a  little  pepper  and  butter,  pour  over 
the  ham,  and  bake  till  done. 

HAM  AND  RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Brown  1  small  sliced  onion  in  butter,  add  I  teaspoon  paprika, 
2  rounded  tablespoons  flour,  and  \  teaspoon  salt ;  stir  in  gradually 
1  pint  hot  milk ;  take  oft'  when  smooth  and  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  and  1  cup  each  of  chopped  ham  and  boiled  rice.  When 
cold,  make  as  other  croquettes. 

HAM  AND  VEAL  PATTIES. 

Chop  half  as  much  ham  as  cold,  cooked  veal ;  stir  into  a  good, 
hot  cream  sauce,  season  with  nutmeg,  salt,  paprika,  lemon  juice 
and  a  very  little  lemon  peel.  "^Cayenne  pepper  may  be  used  instead 
of  paprika,  but  in  much  smaller  quantity.)  Fill  the  patties  hot  or 
cold  and  serve. 

HAM  NOODLES. 

Boil  the  noodles  in  slightly  salted  water:  chop  cold  boiled 
ham  very  fine ;  put  in  alternate  layers  with  the  noodles  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish  ;  beat  2  eggs  with  I  pint  sweet  cream,  pour 
over  the.  top,  cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  dots  of 
butter,   and   bake   a   light  brown. 

HAM   ON  TOAST. 

Chop  cold  ham  or  tongue  very  fine ;  to  each  cup,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  season  with  n.iustard  and  cayenne,  stir 
over  the  fire  till  the  eggs  are  cooked,  and  serve  at  once  on  hot, 
buttered  toast. 

HAMBURG  ROAST. 

Mrs.    Mike   Snyder. 

Take  2  pounds  raw  beefsteak  chopped  fine,  2  medium  sized 
onions  also  chopped  fine,  1  q^^,  6  rolled  crackers,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon butter,  1  teaspoon  poultrv  seasoning,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Mix  well,  make  into  a  roll,  and  dust  with  flour.  Put  in  a 
pan  in  the  oven  with  just  enough  water  in  the  pan  to  baste  it 
well  while  cooking.  Bake  about  45  minutes.  Make  a  gravy  with 
the  juice  in  the  pan,  2  tablespoons  flour,  a  piece  of  butter,  and 
season  it  with  celery  salt,   salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

HAMBURG  STEAK. 

Chop  fine  2  pounds  of  the  tender  side  of  the  round,  removing 
all  gristle  and  ligaments.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if 
liked,  a  little  onion  juice.  Make  into  a  cake  in  a  tin  pan  of  the 
thickness  of  steak  preferred,  but  do  not  pack  too  hard.  Put  1 
tablespoon  butter  over  the  steak  and  bake  10  minutes.  Remove  to 
a  hot  platter  to  serve. 


MEATS.  79 

HASH  ON  TOAST. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  hot  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon 
flour,  and  when  browning  add  1  cup  boiling  water  or  good  stock; 
when  boiling,  stir  in  2  cups  hashed,  cooked  meat  (beefsteak  is 
best),  season,  and  simmer  15  minutes.  Serve  with  the  gravy  on 
hot  buttered  toasts.  Ha  white  meat  is  used,  add  some  milk  or 
cream  to  the  stew. 

HIGHLANDER. 

Filippini. 

Cut  in  half-inch  square  pieces  a  half  pound  pig's  liver,  four 
skinned  fresh  mutton  kidneys,  2  pounds  raw  lean  mutton,  and  4 
ounces  raw,  lean  salt  pork.  Brown  1  finely  chopped  pepper  and  1 
chopped  onion  in  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  all  the  meat  and  1 
quart  broth,  1  level  tablespoon  salt,  i  teaspoon  pepper,  and  1  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg.  Add  a  bunch  of  soup  herbs,  cover  the  pan 
and  simmer  l.V  hours.  Mix  in  2  coarsely  diced  raw  potatoes,  and 
4  peeled  and  crushed  tomatoes,  then  set  in  oven  for  1  hour,  bast- 
ing it  with  its  own  gravy  occasionally.  Take  out  the  herbs,  turn 
into  a  deep,  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

HOT  TAM.\LES,  NO.  1. 

Grind  boiled  veal  or  chicken,  2  red  peppers,  2  onions.  Salt  to 
taste  and  add  enough  cayenne  pepper  to  make  it  very  hot.  Fill 
corn  husks,  tie  up,  and  steam  several  hours. 

HOT  TAMALES,  NO.  2. 

"Dainty  Dishes." 
Soften  clean  corn  husks  by  putting  in  hot  water.  Take  2 
large  red,  dry  Chili  peppers;  remove  seeds  and  pour  hot  water 
over  the  peppers.  Toast  the  seeds  in  a  pan  over  the  fire;  add  to 
the  Chili  pulp  and  pound  to  a  paste.  Add  garlic  and  onions  if 
desired  and  enough  water  to  make  a  pint  of  liquid.  Cut  up  a 
fat  piece  of  raw  beef  or  mutton  into  pieces  about  1^  inches  long; 
take  a  spoonful  of  freshlv  made  cornmeal  mush,  spread  it  flat  on 
the  husk,  and  put  in  centre  a  teaspoonful  of  Chili  sauce  and  a 
piece  of  cut  meat,  fold  up,  roll  up  the  corn  husks  and  tie.  Put 
in  a  kettle  and  steam  4  hours,  serving  hot. 

HUNGARIAN   GOULASH. 

Filippini. 

Cut  2  pounds  of  rump  of  beef  into  1  inch  squares.  Put  in  a 
saucepan  with  2  tablespoons  melted  lard.  1  teaspoon  salt  and  2 
Faltspoons  paprika.  When  browning  add  1  small  sliced  carrot  and 
2  small  sliced  onions;  stir  and  cook  several  minutes.  Stir  in  1 
tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  hot  water,  \  cuo  claret  and  \  cup  tomato 
sauce.  Put  in  a  muslin  bag  several  allspice.  2  cloves,  1  bayleaf 
and  a  little  thvme,  and  add  to  the  pan.  Lastly  2  peeled  and  coarseTy 
dice^  raw  potatoes.  Cover  and  let  cook  slowlv  30  minutes.  Add  1 
bean  garlic  and  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  Cover  and  cook 
for  20  minutes.  Take  out  the  spice  bag,  pour  in  a  hot  dish  and 
serve. 


80  OLD   COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

IRISH   STEW. 

Mrs.   Stephen  Callahan. 

Take  2h  pounds  loin  mutton  chops,  put  in  a  pot  in  alternate 
layers  with  8  sliced  potatoes,  4  turnips  and  4  small  onions  coarsely 
chopped,  and  pour  over  them  1  quart  water.  Cover  pot  closely 
and  let  stew  gently  about  2  hours;  then  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

SOUR   KIDNEY   STEW. 

Mrs.    Leo    Fox. 

Put  1  teaspoon  each  of  lard  and  butter  in  a  hot  skillet,  and 
when  melted  rub  in  enough  flour  to  make  your  gravy.  When  the 
flour  is  browned,  add  boiling  water,  and  when  cooked  3  or  4  min- 
utes, put  in  the  kidneys  cut  small ;  stew  for  20  minutes.  If  the 
gravy  boils  away,  add  boiling  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  before  serving  add  from   1  to  3  tablespoons  vinegar. 

STEWED  KIDNEYS. 

Split  and  trim  the  kidneys,  and  cut  small.  Cover  with  cold 
water  in  a  saucepan,  and  bring  almost  to  the  boiling  point ;  drain 
and  repeat  twice  more.  Brown  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  pan,  rub 
in  1  tablespoon  flour,  and  add  1  cup  stock  or  boiling  water ;  add  1 
tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  tablespoon  mushroom  catsup, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  the  chopped  kidney.  Stir  till  heated  through, 
take  off,  add  a  little  sherry  and  serve. 

Or  the  chopped  kidney  may  be  fried  in  butter  with  a  little 
onion,   and   the   same   ingredients   added   to   the   gravy. 

BROILED  LAMB  CHOPS. 

Trim  and  pound  lightly.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  on 
a  broiler,  and  broil  5  minutes  on  each  side.  Lay  them  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  garnish  with  watercress  or  parsley. 

LAMB    CHOPS  WITH   BACON. 

Put  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  hot  frying  pan  ;  put  in  thin  slices 
bacon  and  fry  2  minutes  on  each  side ;  take  out  and  keep  hot. 
Season  the  lamb  chops  and  fry  brown  in  the  pan  ;  dress  on  a  dish 
with  the  bacon,  and  green  peas  in  the  middle. 

LEG  OF  LAMB. 

Trim  a  leg  of  lamb  neatly,  place  it  in  a  roasting  pan,  dust 
with  salt  and  pepper,  rub  over  it  2  tablespoons  melted  lard  or 
butter,  pour  2  tablespoons  water  in  the  pan,  and  roast  in  the  oven 
1  hour,  turning  and  basting  occasionally.  Place  on  a  hot  platter, 
skim  and  strain  its  own  gravy  over  it,  and  garnish  with  water- 
cress.    Serve  with  mint   sauce. 

Or  make  a  gravy  and  serve  it  in  a  gravy  boat. 

Green  peas  and  asparagus  should  be  served  with  spring  Iamb. 


MEATS.  yi 

RIBS   OF   LAMB   WITH    POTATOES. 

Trim  neatly  a  rack  of  lamb,  put  in  a  pan  with  even  sized 
peeled  raw  potatoes,  new  or  old.  Season  both  meat  and  potatoes 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spread  1  tablespoon  butter  over  them. 
Roast  in  the  oven  for  about  40  minutes,  turning  and  basting 
irequently.  Arrange  the  potatoes  around  the  lamb  on  a  platter, 
and   sprinkle   all   with   a   little   chopped   parsley. 

CALF'S  LIVER. 

Cut  slices  of  liver  i  inch  thick,  roll  in  melted  butter  (or  oil), 
sea.soned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and 
cook  o  mmutes  for  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  The  same 
number  of  slices  of  freshly  broiled  bacon  may  be  laid  on  top. 
-The  hver  may  be  pan  broiled  by  -cooking  in  a  very  hot  skillet 
the  same  length  of  time.  Fried  onions  are  served  with  liver 
and  bacon. 

IMITATION  PAT£  DE  FOIE  GRAS. 

Boil  a  calf's  liver  till  very  tender  in  slightly  sailed  water. 
When  cold  cut  into  small  pieces  and  pound  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Fry  a  sliced  onion  till  brown  in  ;3  tablespoons  butter;  press  all 
the  liquid  through  a  strainer  upon  the  liver,  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  ground  cloves,  and  1  teaspoon 
each  of  made  mustard  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  If  not  moist 
enough  add  1  tablespoon  boiling  water.  Pack  very  hard  in  small 
jars  or  cups,  and  cover  with  melted  butter.  It  will  keep  for 
months  in  a  cool  place.  Use  in  sandwiches  in  the  same  way  as  the 
genuine  article. 

ONTARIO  LIVER. 

Boil  a  beef's,  calf's  or  lamb's  liver  till  tender:  while  warm 
mash  it  fine  with  a  wire  potato  masher :  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  onion  juice._  Meanwhile  scald  \  the  quantity  of  oatflakes, 
and  let  cook  thick  but  not  too  soft.  Mix  porridge  and  liver 
well  together,  and  pack  in  a  mould.  When  cold  and  firm,  cut 
in   slices,  and   frv. 

MEAT  JELLY. 

Miss    Sarah    Watkins. 

Take  the  shank  hone  of  veal  or  young  beef,  cover  with  water, 
and  cook  till  the  meat  leaves  the  bone.  Take  out  the  bone,  pick 
the  lean  meat  to  pieces;  let  the  broth  get  cold  and  skim  it,  then 
boil  down  to  less  tlian  1  pint,  pour  over  the  meat,  and  set  out 
to  cool.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  when'  nearly  done  cooking. 
Slice  for  the  table. 

MEAT  PIE.  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Joseph    Blankenship. 

Take  2  or  3  pounds  of  lean  meat,  beef,  veal,  or  pork.  Cut  in 
pieces  the  size  of  an  egg,  put  in  a  kettle  with  plenty  of  water, 
cook  until  done.  Line  a  deep  pan  with  a  good  short  dougli.  put 
in    a    layer    of   meat,    then    a    layer   of   dough,    and    so    alternatelv, 

6 


82  OLD   COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

covering  the  top  with  dough.  Before  putting  the  cover  on  take 
the  broth  the  meat  was  in,  add  '2  well  beaten  eggs,  and  thicken 
with  milk  or  cream.  Pour  over  the  pie,  put  on  top  paste,  put  in 
a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  brown. 

MEAT  PIE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.   Thompson. 

Put  }  pound  of  the  tender  side  of  the  round  of  beef  and  | 
pound  lean  fresh  pork  through  a  grinder ;  chop  1  onion  tine  and 
brown  it  in  1  teaspoon  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  the  meat  and 
cover  with  hot  water.  Stew  about  1  hour.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Make  a  pie  crust,  line  a  pie  pan,  fill  with  the  stew, 
put  over  it  a  top  crust,  and  bake  till  done.     Serve  hot. 

MEAT  POTATO  CAKES. 

Mrs.  John   D.   Martin. 

Take  any  cold  meat,  chop  fine,  add  3  times  the  quantity  of  cold 
mashed  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  enough  eggs  to  make 
a  thin  batter ;    beat  well  and  fry  as  griddle  cakes. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN. 

Take  ^  a  calf's  liver  or  the  same  quantity  cold  veal,  or 
chicken,  hash  it  rather  coarsely,  season  and  flour  it  thickly,  and 
fry  brown  in  butter ;  add  1  teaspoon  French  mustard,  a  little 
cayenne,  2  hardboiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  and  1  cup  water.     Let  boil  a  few  minutes. 

Or  rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  in  a  hot  saucepan,  add  ^- 
pint  milk,  and  when  it  boils,  the  meat,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  till 
thoroughly  heated,  take  off,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  2 
tablespoons  sherry,  and  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  Serve  im- 
mediately. If  liver  is  used,  it  must  be  first  browned  as  in  the 
first  recipe. 

MUSHROOM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  T.  S.  Johnson. 

Make  a  paste  with  flour,  water,  a  little  salt,  and  very  finely 
minced  suet ;  roll  out  and  line  a  bowl ;  fill  the  bowl  with  small 
pieces  of  mutton,  and  fresh  mushrooms,  washed  and  peeled;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pack  down  tight ;  .  add  a  very  little 
water.  Cover  the  bowl  with  a  top  crust,  tie  up  in  a  cloth,  put  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,   and  boil  3  hours.     Serve  in  the  bowl. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Wipe  the  leg,  wrap  in  a  heavily  floured  cloth,  put  in  boiling 
water,  and  simmer  15  minutes  to  each  pound,  adding  1  teaspoon 
salt  when  half  done.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  caper  or  egg  sauce, 
and  garnish  with  parsley. 

ROAST  LEG  OR  SADDLE  OF  MUTTON. 

Roast  in  the  oven  the  same  as  roast  beef.  Roast  done.  The 
breast  should  have  the  bone  removed  and  be  stuffed  with  poultry 
dressing,    rolled,    tied    and    roasted. 


MEATS.  83 

MUTTON  CHOPS. 
Broil  as  lamb  chops,  or  bread  and  fry  as  veal  cutlets. 

MUTTON  HASH. 

Dice  rather  small  any  left  over  mutton,  and  add  half  the 
quantity  chopped  boiled  potato.  Brown  an  onion  and  a  pepper,  both 
chopped,  in  a  pan  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  add  the  hash,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  moisten  well  with  broth,  or  left  over  soup, 
or  hot  water,  cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  50  minutes. 
Dress  the  hash  nicely  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley 
and  serve.  It  may  be  served  as  the  centre  of  a  platter  of  hot 
boiled   rice. 

MUTTON  PIES. 

Cut  1  pound  mutton  in  very  small  pieces,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  add  2  or  3  tablespoons  water.  Fill  small  individual 
baking  dishes  with  a  good  pie  crust,  put  in  the  mutton,  and  cover 
with  paste,   cutting  a  hole   in   the   middle  of  the  top. 

MUTTON  STEW. 

Cut  4  pounds  of  mutton  from  the  neck  into  IJ  inch  squares. 
Add  it  to  3  tablespoons  hot  lard  in  a  saucepan,  1^  teaspoons  salt, 
h  teaspoon  pepper,  and  cook  till  a  light  brown.  Pour  off  the  fat, 
and  sprinkle  3  tablespoons  flour  over  the  meat;  cook  two  minutes, 
stirring.  Add  ^  pint  water  and  1  pint  tomato  juice;  stir  and  boil 
3  minutes.  Add  2  carrots  finely  chopped,  2  raw  potatoes  coarsely 
chopped,  (5  very  small  onions  browned  in  butter,  a  little  chopped 
cooked  pork  or  boiled  ham,  if  at  hand,  and  a  bunch  of  soup  herbs. 
Cover,  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  1  hour.  Re- 
move, .skim,  take  out  the  herbs,  add  3  tablespoons  of  cooked  green 
peas    (if  left  over),  and  serve  in  a  deep  hot  dish. 

NORTHUMBERLAND  POT  PIE. 

Mrs.    John     Carr. 

Cut  IJ  pounds  of  the  round  of  beef  into  small  pieces,  add 
2  chopped  onions,  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  pie  dough  with  flour, 
water,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  lard,  roll  out  thin,  put  in 
the  meat,  fold  it  up  adding  1  cup  water,  pinch  it  tight,  put  in  a 
pudding   bag,   and  boil   3J   hours. 

OLD-FASHIONED  BOILED  DINNER. 

Put  corned  beef  in  a  large  kettle  of  cold  water  about  nine 
o'clock ;  at  10  put  in  1  or  2  pounds  salt  pork,  in  a  solid  piece ; 
put  in  small  beets  at  the  same  time:  at  11  put  in  peeled  and 
quartered  turnips  and  scraped  parsnips;  at  11:30  add  some  peeled 
potatoes  and  a  small  calibage  in  quarters.  Let  boil  a  full  half 
hour.  Half  a  red  pepper  improves  the  dish.  Dish  the  meat  on  a 
platter,  and  most  of  the  vegetables  in  separate  dishes,  using  the 
carrots  and  parsnips  for  garnishing.  Serve  horseradish  with  the 
meat.  Be  careful  not  to  break  the  skin  of  the  beets  while  cook- 
ing, and  peel  and  quarter  them  to  serve. 


84  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

'POSSUM. 

"Mrs.    Owen's    Cook    Book." 

Clean  as  a  pig,  scrape,  not  skin  it.  Chop  the  hvcr  hue,  mix 
with  breadcrumbs,  chopped  onion,  and  parsley,  pepper,  salt  and  1 
beaten  egg.  Stuff  with  it.  Or  stuff  with  peeled  and  sliced  apples. 
Sew  up,  roast  and  baste  with  salt  and  water,  and  rub  over  with  a 
rag  dipped  in  its  own  grease  when  finishing.  Make  the  gravy  with 
browned  flour,  and  serve  whole  with  a  baked  apple  in  its  mouth. 

PHILADELPHIA  SCRAPPLE. 

Mrs.  H.   I.   Ellis. 

Take  bits  of  cold  fowl  or  any  cold  meat  or  several  kinds 
together.  Chop  fine,  put  in  a  frying  pan  with  water  to  cover. 
Season  well.  When  it  boils,  thicken  with  cornmeal  stirred  in 
carefully  as  for  mush.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  turn  into  a  mould, 
and  cut  slices  to  fry  for  Ijreakfast. 

BREADED  PIGS'  FEET. 

Wipe  the  feet  dry,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  in  a  skillet.  They  cook 
quickly.      Serve    with    quartered   lemons. 

BROILED  PIGS'  FEET. 

Sprinkle  pickled  pigs'  feet  with  salt  and  pepper,  brush  with 
butter,  roll  in  breadcrumbs,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turning 
often.      Serve  with   Piquante   Sauce. 

FRIED  PIGS'  FEET. 

Dip  the  feet  in  a  light  batter,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce. 

PICKLED  PIGS'  FEET. 

Put  the  feet  into  common  brine  for  10  days ;  wash  well  and 
cook  slowly  in  water  with  a  carrot,  2  large  onions,  several  branches 
of  celery  and  a  little  parsley.  Simmer  for  3  or  4  hours.  Drain, 
cut  in  half,  remove  the  larger  bones,  press  together  into  shape,  and 
put  away   to  cool. 

PIG  JOWL  WITH   SPINACH. 

Put  half  a  smoked  pig  jowl  in  2  gallons  boiling  water,  and  boil 
for  2  hours.  Take  out,  peel  off  the  skin,  and  trim  neatly.  Have 
ready  some  freshly  Ixiiled  spinach,  place  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
arrange  the   jowl   over   it. 

ROAST   PIG. 

Have  a  sucking  pig  sent  from  the  butcher  prepared  for  the 
oven  ;  wash  and  wipe  dry.  Stuff  it  with  plain  turkey  stuffing,  using 
suet  in  place  of  butter,  and  seasoning  well  with  sage,  parsley  and 
onion   juice   besides    salt    and    pepper.     Sew   the    opening   together. 


MEATS.  85 

and  truss  all  the  legs  forward,  the  hind  legs  close  under  the  body. 
Put  a  corncob  in  the  mouth,  rub  all  over  with  melted  butter,  and 
dust  with  pepper,  salt  and  flour ;  roast  before  a  moderate  fire, 
turning  often.  If  an  oven  roast  is  wanted,  put  in  a  pan,  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  bake  from  2  to  2^^  hours.  Put  a  little  salted 
water  in  the  pan,  and  baste  with  this  and  melted  butter,  until  there 
is  enough  dripping.  If  browning  too  fast,  rub  all  over  with  butter. 
Dish  on  a  hot  platter  with  an  apple  in  place  of  the  corncob,  and 
garnish  with  parsley.  Make  a  gravy  as  with  other  roast  meat, 
adding  a  little  wine.     Serve  with  apple  sauce. 

CHESHIRE  PORK  Plh:. 

Cut  several  small  steaks  from  a  loin  of  pork;  season  with  salt, 
nutmeg  and  pepper.  Make  a  piecrust,  and  fill  with  a  layer  of  pork, 
then  one  of  pared  and  cored  apples,  with  a  little  sugar  sprinkled 
t)ver,  then  another  layer  of  pork;  pour  over  ^  pint  white  wine, 
and  spread  with  a  little  butter.  Cover  with  paste  and  bake.  Good 
hot  or  cold. 

ENGLISH  PORK  PIE. 

Mrs.    Isabella    Breeze. 

Line  the  sides  of  a  deep  pie  dish  with  pie  paste;  put  a  layer 
of  thin  sliced  bacon  at  the  bottom,  next  thin  sliced  potatoes,  and 
onions  chopped  or  sliced  very  fine,  lastly  lean  fresh  pork  cut  small. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sage.  Fill  the  dish  with  any  left  over 
gravy  or  water  thickened  with  flour  and  butter.  Cover  with  a 
crust,   cut   a   vent   and   bake   about   \^  hours. 

PICKLED  PORK. 

Roil  with  sauer-kraut  or  cabbage,  or  greens  ;  bake  with  white 
beans.     It  takes  about  '2\  hours  to  cook  the  same  number  of  pounds. 

ROAST  PORK. 

Put  a  piece  of  fresh  loin  of  pork  in  a  roasting  pan,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spread  a  little  butter  over  it.  Pour  \ 
cup  water  in  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  1  hour  or  more, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  roast.  Baste  occasionally.  Small 
peeled  raw  potatoes  may  be  roasted  in  the  pan  with  the  pork,  sea- 
soning and  basting  them  also.  Set  them  around  the  meat  on  the 
same  platter. 

PORK  AND  BEEF  LOAF,    NO.   L 

i\Irs.    Henry    Rischert, 

Chop  fine  2  pounds  raw  beef  and  i  pound  pork ;  add  1  cup 
cracker  crumbs,  2  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.     Bake  2J  hours. 

PORK   AND   BEEF  LOAF,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Anna    Everetts. 

Chop  fine  !•]  pounds  lean  beef,  and  l  pound  pork;  mix  well 
with  6  rolled  crackers.  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg  and  \'h  cups  sweet  milk.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


86  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

PORK  CHOPS. 

Dust  with  pepper,  salt  and  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  dripping  till 
done.  Make  a  brown  gravy  with  a  little  of  the  dripping  left  in 
the  pan. 

PORK  TENDERLOIN. 

Split  the  tenderloins  in  half  lengthwise.  Dust  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  fry  in  a  hot  skillet  with  1  tablespoon  butter.  Dress 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  good  sauce.  Fried  onions  are 
good  with  this  dish. 

POT-AU-FEU. 

Mrs.    Helen   Campbell. 

Take  4  to  6  pounds  lean  beef,  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and 
cover  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  skim 
carefully.  Add  a  tablespoon  salt  and  three  peppercorns,  and  boil 
very  slowly  for  three  hours.  Then  add  two  onions  sliced  and 
browned  in  a  little  butter,  2  leeks,  1  large  parsnip,  2  turnips,  2 
small  carrots,  quarter  of  a  cabbage,  a  stalk  of  celery  and  a  bay  leaf. 
Boil  all  very  slowly  for  2  hours  longer.  Then  take  up  the  l)eef  ; 
pile  the  vegetables  neatly  about  it ;  strain  the  broth,  pouring  a 
little  over  the  beef.  Any  remnants  of  poultry  or  roast  meat  may 
be  added.     Must  not  be  boiled  to  rags. 

POT  ROAST,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.    Lena    Moseman. 

Dust  a  small  roast  of  beef  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  a  hot 
pot  with  some  hot  dripping  or  lard,  fry  on  both  sides,  turning 
several  times.  Put  a  sliced  onion  on  top  the  roast,  sprinkle  with 
flour,  add  2  pints  water  and  baste  often  while  cooking  slowly. 
When  half  done,  turn,  add  onion  and  flour  as  before,  and  baste 
quite  often.  When  done,  take  up,  thicken  the  gravy  a  little  and 
pour  over  the  meat.     Cheap  cuts  of  meat  cook  nicely  in  this  way. 

POT  ROAST,   NO.  2. 

Mrs.    B.    E.    Winters. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  sear  on  all  sides  in  a  hot 
skillet.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  Jnitter  in  a  kettle,  mix  with  it  2 
tablespoons  flour,  and  a  little  cold  water  until  it  is  smooth.  Add 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  the  meat  and  cover  with  hot  water.  Let 
simmer  for  a  couple  of  hours  cooking  down  to  a  brown  gravy. 

POT  ROAST,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.   J.   W.   Holleran. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  weighing  3  or  4  pounds,  put  it  in  a  pot 
with  1  cup  hot  water,  and  cover  closely,  turning  often  without 
pricking  with  the  fork,  keeping  the  same  amount  of  boiling  water 
over  it  till  almost  done.     Then  season  and  let  it  brown  nicely. 


MEATS.  87 

POTTED   HEAD. 

Mrs.    Robert   Sneddon. 

Slit  a  beef's  head  in  quarters  or  less,  and  put  in  a  tub  with 
a  strong  brine  for  several  days.  Boil  the  feet  until  the  hoofs  can 
be  removed,  and  put  them  in  the  same  brine.  Wash  vi-ell,  and 
rinse  and  vi-ash  in  fresh  cold  water.  Then  put  in  a  pot  full  of 
water, -and  boil  all  night,  or  until  the  meat  all  comes  off  the  bones. 
Take  out  all  the  bones,  return  to  the  kettle,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,   and   boil    about   20   minutes.     When    cold,   serve  in    slices. 

POTTED  MEAT. 

Chop  any  kind  of  cold  meat  very  fine ;  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  cloves  and  cinnamon:  mix  with  a  little  wine,  vinegar  and 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Pack  in  a  jar,  and  cover  with  J  inch  melted 
butter.     It  will  keep  some  time. 

.  PRESSED  MEAT. 

Take  a  quart  of  pieces  of  left  over  cooked  meat,  as  from 
soup,  etc.  Take  out  any  gristle  or  bones.  Add  salt  to  taste,  1 
teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  allspice,  \  teaspoon  each  of  cloves, 
pepper  and  mace,  and  1  cup  boiling  stock.  A  little  vinegar  may 
be  added,  if  liked.  Mix,  press  into  a  square  mould,  and  put  aside 
to  cool.     Serve  sliced. 

BROILED   RABBIT. 

If  young  and  tender,  rabbit  may  be  broiled  as  a  chicken. 
Squirrels  may  be  cooked  in  all  ways  as  rabbits  are  cooked. 

BROWN  FRICASSEE  OF  RABBIT. 

Prepare  the  rabbit  properly,  cut  ii'f  pieces,  lay  in  salted  culd 
water  |  hour,  rinse  in  cold  water,  then  lay  in  a  saucepan  and  cover 
with  hot  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  till  tender,  skimming 
when  necessary.  Put  a  slice  of  fat  pork  in  another  pan,  add  a 
few  slices  of  onion,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
i  dozen  peppercorns,  and  fry  till  a  good  brown ;  add  the  liquor 
from  the  rabbit,  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  strain,  put  back  over  the 
rabbit,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  let  boil  up  again,  and  turn  out 
on  a  hot  platter. 

RABBIT  PIE. 

Line  a  deep  dish  with  a  rich  biscuit  dough  ;  stew  the  rabbit, 
season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  put  in  the  dish,  cover 
with  a  top  crust  and  bake. 

SAUSAGE. 

Cut  off  the  desired  length,  prick  the  skins  in  several  places, 
and  fry  in  their  own  fat  over  a  moderate  fire.  If  not  in  skins, 
make  into  small  cakes  and  fry  in  their  own  fat ;  or  bread  and  fry  as 
veal  cutlets.  Serve  with  a  cream  gravy,  if  any,  made  in  the  same 
pan. 


88  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

BREAKFAST   SAUSAGE. 

Chop  2  pounds  lean  pork,  add  1  teaspoon  powdered  sage. 
I  teaspoon  salt,  and  1  saltspoon  black  pepper,  and  form  into  small 
cakes.  Fry  on  both  sides  in  a  pan  with  a  little  dripping.  Serve 
plain  or  with  cream  sauce. 

PORK  SAUSAGE. 

Mrs.  Jemima  Campbell. 

Take  tenderloins,  and  trimmings  from  shoulders  and  hams, 
fat  and  lean  alike,  and  grind  fine.  To  10  pounds  of  meat  add  4 
tablespoons  salt,  2  tablespoons  pepper,  and  5  tablespoons  powdered 
sage.  Try  a  cake  of  it  to  test  the  seasoning  before  finishing.  Pack 
it  down  tight  in  crocks,  and  pour  hot  lard  over  it.  Cover  with  cloth 
and   paper,  and   tie  up  tight.     It  will   keep   all   winter. 

,  SAUSAGE   ROLLS.- 

Mince  fine  j  pound  pork,  and  3  ounces  fat;  add  salt,  pepper, 
mace  and  allspice;  mix  well  with  3  ounces  bread  crumbs.  Finish 
like    Savory   Rolls. 

SAVORY  ROLLS. 

Fry  some  soup  herbs,  including  parsley,  5  minutes  in  1  table- 
spoon butter;  add  1  pint  broth,  salt  and  pepper,  the  liquor  from  1 
can  mushrooms,  and  2  pounds  rump  steak ;  simmer  for  I  hour, 
take  out  the  steak  and  thicken  the  .gravy  with  a  little  butter  and 
flour  mixed  ;  boil  several  minutes.  Chop  the  steak,  the  mushrooms 
and  4  hard  boiled  eggs  very  fine;  stir  into  the  sauce,  and  let  cool. 
Make  some  pufT  paste,  roll  very  thin,  cut  into  pieces  4  inches 
square,  put  a  little  of  the  mixture  in  the  centre  of  each,  glaze 
the  edges  with  white  of  ep9C.  fold  over,  pinch  the  edges  together, 
put  on  a  pan,  and  bake  in  the  oven  a  light  brown.  Serve  hot  or 
cold, 

SCOTCH    HAGGIS. 

Mrs.   Hugh  Campbell. 

Take  a  sheep's  bag  and  pluck,  wash  the  bag  in  cold  water, 
scrape  and  clean  it  well  ;  let  it  lie  all  night  with  cold  water  and 
a  little  salt ;  wash  the  pluck,  put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water 
with  1  tablespoon  salt,  boil  for  2  hours  with  the  windpipe  hanging 
out ;  when  cold,  cut  oft  the  windpipe,  grate  \  the  liver,  mince  the 
heart  and  lights  very  small ;  mince  J  pound  suet  and  4  small 
onions;  add  \  pound  oatmeal  toasted  brown,  \  teaspoon  each 
pepper,  salt  and  powdered  herbs,  and  a  cup  of  the  water  in  which 
the  pluck  was  boiled:  mix  well:  fill  the  bag  rather  more  than  half 
full  with  the  mixture,  and  sew  it  up :  place  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  and  prick  from  time  to  time  to  keep  it  from  bursting.  Boil 
about  8  hours. 

^lany  omit  the  heart  as  too  tough,  and  the  lights  as  too  soft. 


MEATS.  89 

SEA  PIE. 

Mrs.    Maitland    JNIurday. 

Cut  2  pounds  steak  in  inch  pieces,  add  a  sliced  onion,  and 
several  sliced  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  stew  an  hour  or  more;  put  a  layer  of  pie  paste  made 
with  finely  minced  suet  inside  the  pan,  having  the  water  come  up 
over  the  paste.     Cover  and  cook  ahout  l-")  minutes. 

A  "double  decker"  is  made  by  putting  half  the  meat  and 
vegetables  on  top  the  paste,  and  covering  with  a  second  crust,  the 
water   rising   above   this   also. 

SHEPHERD'S  PIE. 

Mrs.   B.    F.    Martin. 

Half  fill  a  baking  dish  with  pieces  of  cold  meat  cut  small  and 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  a  gravy  with  a  little 
Worcestershire  sauce  or  catsup.  Cover  with  a  thick  layer  of 
mashed  or  finely  chopped  potato,  glaze  with  melted  butter,  and 
bake   until   brown. 

SHROPSHIRE  PIE. 

Line  a  dish  with  good  puff  paste ;  chop  together  a  rabbit  and 
1  pound  fat  pork;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  lav  in  the  dish. 
Make  some  good  forcemeat  balls,  and  put  in,  adding  a  pinch 
of  nutmeg  and  1  pint  white  wine.  Bakt-  in  a  hot  oven  1  hour.  Serve 
hot  or  cold. 

ROAST  SPARE-RIB. 

Mrs.    Anise    Holcomb. 

Trim  off  the  rough  ends  neatly,  crack  the  ribs  across  the 
middle,  rub  with  salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper,  fold  over,  stuff  with 
turkey  dressing,  sew  up  tightly,  place  in  a  dripping  pan  with  1 
pint  hot  water,  and  bake  till  a  rich  brown,  basting  frequently  and 
turning  over  once  to  cook  both   sides   equally. 

SPARE-RIBS  WITH  CABBAGE. 

Trim  a  medium  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters,  put  in  a  kettle  with  1 
gallon  hot  water,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  half  as  much  pepper,  cover 
and  boil  slowly  45  minutes.  If  the  spareribs  are  salted,  keep  them 
in  fresh  water  during  this  time.  Add  them  to  the  kettle,  cover 
and  cook  45  minutes  longer:  then  add  several  raw  peeled  potatoes, 
and  cook  till  the  potatoes  are  done.  Drain  the  cabbage,  put  on  a 
hot  platter,  lay  the  meat  on  top,  and  dress  with  the  potatoes.  If 
the  cabbage  is  young  it  need  not  cook   so  long. 

Corned  beef  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  cooking  it  1  hour 
before  the  cabbage  is  put  in.  Spinach  may  be  used  to  garnish 
either,   but   should   be   cooked   separately. 

SULZBECHER  STEAK. 

Mrs.    John    C.     Snee. 

Pepper  and  salt  a  Hamburg  steak,  and  put  in  a  dripping  pan. 
Put  an  onion  and  a  tomato  throu.gh  the  chopper,  mix  it  with  2 
tablespoons  catsup  and  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire,  and  pour 
over  the  meat.     Add  small  lumps  of  butter  and  bake  1  hour. 


90  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Throw  calf's  sweetbreads  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  they  come; 
soak  1  honr;  trim  free  from  fat,  put  in  boiling  water  with  1 
teaspoon  salt  and  boil  15  minutes ;  remove  skin  and  strings,  and 
put  in  the  icebox  until  used.  They  will  keep  2  days  after  par- 
boiling. Cut  with  a  silver  knife.  They  may  now  be  cooked  in 
any  way  wanted. 

BROILED  SWEETBREADS. 

Cut  the  sweetbreads  in  half  crosswise,  roll  in  butter,  salt 
and  pepper,  and  broil  a  few  minutes  on  each  side.  Serve  hot  with 
melted  butter,   and  garnish   with  parsley. 

CREAMED  SWEETBREADS. 

Cut  small  with  several  finely  chopped  mushrooms,  and  cook 
a  few  minutes  in  a  good  cream  sauce.  Season  well.  They  are 
also  nice  added  with  the  mushrooms  to  a  fresh  Bechamel  sauce. 
Canned  mushrooms  are  always  good  with  sweetbreads ;  if  fresh 
ones  are  used,  take  less. 

FRIED  SWEETBREADS. 

Cut  parboiled  sweetbreads  in  nice  sized  pieces,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  breadcrumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat,  or  in  a  frying 
pan   with   a  little  butter.     Serve  with  a  cream   sauce. 

SWISS  STEAK. 

Mrs.   John    C.   Snee. 

Take  I'k  pounds  round  steak  cut  two  inches  thick,  lay  on 
board,  take  a  broad-hcadcd  hammer  and  pound  in  a  cup  of  flour, 
salt  and  pepper  until  pulped  but  not  broken  apart.  I\Ielt  some  butter 
in  a  skillet  and  sear  the  meat  on  both  sides.  Then  add  1  cup 
water,  cover  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  2  hours,  turning  2  or  3 
times,  adding  water  if  necessary.  Remove  the  steak  to  a  heated 
platter,  make  a  gravy  adding  1  can  of  mushrooms  to  it,  pour 
over  the  steak  and  serve  immediately. 

BOILED  TONGUE. 

Wash  a  smoked  tongue  and  soak  in  cold  water  over  night. 
Put  in  a  kettle  full  of  cold  water,  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  several 
hours,  till  it  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork.  Let  get  cold  in  the  kettle. 
Skin  and  use  hot.  It  may  be  garnished  with  parsley  and  black 
currant  jelly.  Sliced  very  thin  when  cold,  it  may  be  served 
plain   or   with    sauce   Tartare,   and   the   dish   prettily   decorated. 

FILLETS  OF  TONGUE. 

Cut  slices  of  cooked  tongue,  fry  in  butter  and  serve  with 
mushroom  sauce. 


MEATS.  91 

FRESH  TONGUE. 

Wash  well  a  medium  sized  beef  tongue;  brown  a  selection 
of  soup  vegetables  and  herbs,  with  a  few  whole  spices  and  pepper- 
corns in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  butter;  place  the  tongue  in  this, 
pour  over  it  1  quart  hot  water,  |  cup  claret,  1  cup  tomato  sauce, 
and  1  cup  strong  broth.  Season  with  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  J  tea- 
spoon pepper.  Cover  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  place  in  the 
oven  for  2  hours,  turning  occasionally.  Take  up  the  tongue,  skin, 
trim  and  keep  hot.  Reduce  the  sauce  on  top  the  stove  to  1  pint, 
strain,  add  several  sliced  pickles,  chopped  mushrooms^,  .chopped 
Spanish  peppers  and  a  little  minced  cooked  ham,  boil  5  minutes, 
skim,  pour  over  the  tongue  and  serve. 

TRIPE. 

It  is  usually  bought  cleaned.  Put  in  a  stew  pan  at  once,  cover 
with  cold  water,  add  1  onion  stuck  full  of  cloves,  1  sprig  parsley, 
and'  1  dozen  peppercorns.  Simmer  gently  for  6  hours.  Then 
cook  any  way  it  is  liked. 

BROILED  TRIPE. 

Cut  pieces  of  fresh  well  cleaned  tripe  into  two-inch  squares, 
roll  in  melted  butter  (or  oil),  pepper  and  salt,  and  broil  5 
minutes  on  each  side.     Serve  on  a  hot  plate. 

FRIED  TRIPE. 

Cut  into  H  inch  squares,  season,  dip  in  fritter  batter,  or  else 
in  egg  and  then  in  breadcrumbs,  and  fry  in  l)oiling  fat.  Serve 
with   sauce   Tartare. 

STEWED  TRIPE. 

Cut  boiled  tripe  into  small  squares  and  proceed  as  for  kidney 
stew'. 

R.AGOUT  OF  VEAL. 

Cut  any  pieces  of  cold  roast  veal  into  squares ;  brown  2  table- 
spoons butter,  rub  in  2  tablespoons  flour,  add  1  pint  stock.  J-  gill 
w'inc,  and  1  pint  meat,  letting  simmer  ^  hour ;  add  J  pint  chopped 
mushrooms,  the  yolks  of  3  hardboiled  eggs  mashed,  and  salt 
and  pepper;  cook  10  minutes  longer.  Take  off,  add  J  gill  more 
wine,  and  serve. 

ROAST  VEAL. 

Loin  of  veal  is  baked  as  beef,  allowing  15  minutes  to  the 
pornd.  It  should  be  well  done.  Breast  and  shoulder  may  be 
stuffed  as  fowls,  a  little  chopped  salt  pork  proving  an  addition; 
then   roast  as   the   loin. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.    Lewis    Rush. 

Scald  a  cup  of  cream.  Rub  together  1  tablespoon  flour  with  3 
tablespoons  butter  and  stir  into  the  hot  cream  until  smooth.     Add 


92  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES    AND    NEW. 

1  pint  of  finely  chopped  cooked  veal,  1  teaspoon  salt,  even  \ 
teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  and  2  well  beaten  eggs. 
Put  the  eggs  in  last  after  cooking  a  couple  of  minutes ;  let  cook 
up  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Set  aside  to  get  cold.  Then  shape 
into  croquettes,  dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs, 
put  in  a  frying  basket,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  until  a  light  brown. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Dust  thin  cutlets  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour;  fry  in  a  pan  with 
1  tablespoon  hot  dripping;  brown  both  sides;  take  out  on  a  hot 
dish,  add  1  tablespoon  flour  to  tlie  pan,  and  when  brown  1  cup  hot 
water ;    season  when  it  boils   and  pour  over  tlie  cutlets. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  BREADED. 

Cut  into  nice  sized  pieces,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  breadcrumbs,  and 
fry  on  both  sides  in  a  little  dripping.  Serve  with  brown  gravy  or 
with  maitre  d'hotel  butter ;  or  with  a  good  cream  gravy  as  for 
fried  chicken. 

VEAL  LOAF,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Win.    Ilarbaugh. 

Grind  or  chop  2  pounds  raw  veal  with  \  pound  salt  pork ; 
add  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  nepper,  4  tablespoons  milk,  3 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  6  rolled  crackers,  and  2  well  beaten 
eggs.  Put  in  a  roasting  pan  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  1  hour. 
Put  1  cup  cold  water  in  the  pan  and  use  it  to  baste  with. 

VEAL  LOAE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Waldie. 

Chop  4  pounds  veal  fine;  roll  15  crackers  fine;  mix  with  4 
well  beaten  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  grated  nutmeg,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  1  pint  cold  water.  Make  into  3  loaves ; 
sprinkle  with  flour,  cut  1  onion  in  thin  slices  and  lay  on  top  the 
loaves.  Fill  pan  half  full  of  hot  water,  and  bake  2  hours,  basting 
often. 

VEAL  LOAF,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.   Raymond  Orndorf. 

Mix  2  pounds  ground  veal  with  1  cup  rolled  crackers,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  and  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Make  into  a  loaf  and  bake. 

VEAL  PIE. 

Make  by  any  of  the  recipes  for  meat  pies,  using  a  knuckle  of 
veal.  I  pound  of  chopped  ham  is  a  good  addition  to  a  baked 
pie.     It  then  becomes  Silas  Wegg's  favorite  "weal  and  hammer." 

VENISON  STEAK. 

Roll  the  steaks  in  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  broil  quickly  about 
4  minutes  on  each  side;  serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  currant  jelly 
at  the  side. 


FOWLS. 


ARROZ  AAIARILLO   (YELLOW   RICE). 

"A    Friend    in    Need." 

Cut  up  a  chicken  and  fry  in  2  tablespoons  lard,  then  add  i 
an  onion  sliced,  cover  and  let  brown  on  a  slow  fire  about  20  min- 
utes. Add  1  cupful  canned  tomatoes,  or  fresh  sliced  tomatoes, 
let  cook  about  10  minutes,  add  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  when 
chicken  is  tender,  3  cups  of  rice.  Let  it  cook  slowly,  adding  water 
until  the  rice  is  thoroughly  done.     Salt  to  taste. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW. 

I^frs.  Ralph  Wilson. 

1  chicken  or  2  squirrels  cut  up  small  with  k  pound  bacon,  and 
stewed  in  6  quarts  water  till  tender  ;  take  the  meat  off  the  bones 
and  put  back  in  the  pot  with  more  water,  if  necessary.  Add  1 
pint  each  peeled  and  chopped  potatoes  and  tomatoes,  |  pint  grated 
corn,  \  pint  butter  beans,  i  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Stew    till   done,   seasoning   with   butter,   pepper   and    salt. 

BOILED  CHICKEN. 

An  older  chicken  may  be  used  for  boiling  and  stewing  than 
for  any  other  way.  Prepare  as  for  roasting,  dredge  with  flour, 
put  in  a  pot,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let  simmer  2  hours  or  less 
if  done.  Serve  with  egg  sauce.  Make  soup  of  the  water  that 
is  left.    If  liked,  J  cup  of  rice  may  be  boiled  withthe  chicken. 

BROILED  CHICKEN. 

Clean  and  dress  a  spring  chicken,  split  it  down  the  back,  wipe 
inside  and  break  the  breast  bone  to  make  it  flatter.  Brush  with 
oil  or  melted  butter,  and  dust  with  salt  and  pepper ;  put  on  a 
broiler  inside  down,  cover  and  let  broil  slowly  45  minutes ;  when 
nearly  done,  turn  and  broil  the  other  side.  Turn  on  a  hot  platter, 
baste   with   melted   butter,   season   and   garnish    with    parsley. 

BROWN  FRICASSEE  OF   CHICKEN. 

Clean  and  dress  the  chicken,  and  cut  it  up.  Put  \  pound  salt 
pork  in  a  saucepan ;  when  browned  add  the  chicken ;  let  every 
piece  brown  nicely,  then  stir  in  2  tablespoons  flour,  and  when 
brown  1  pint  boiling  water,  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  and  let 
simmer  till  done.  Take  up  neatly  on  a  hot  platter,  add  a  little 
pepper  and  onion  juice  to  the  gravy,  and  pour  over  the  chicker*. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

93 


94  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CURRIED   CHICKEN. 

1  teaspoon  curry  powder  mixed  with  cold  water  may  be  added 
to  the  gravy  of  stewed,  fried  of  fricasseed  chicken.  A  Httle  lemon 
juice  should  also  be  added. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Clean,  dress  and  cut  up  the  chicken ;  roll  in  salt,  pepper  and 
flour,  put  1  tablespoon  each  of  lard  and  butter  in  a  skillet ;  when 
hot  add  the  chicken,  and  fry  slowly  |  hour  or  more  till  done. 
Take  up  on  a  hot  platter.  Pour  ofif  most  of  the  fat  from  the 
pan,  add  1  tablespoon  flour,  and  when  smooth  1  cup  milk  or  cream, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  stir  well  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  a  chicken  in  a  very  little  water  till  the  meat  leaves  the 
bone ;  pick  off,  chop  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  put  in 
a  mould  in  alternate  layers  with  thin  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs 
till  nearly  full ;  boil  down  the  liquor  in  the  pot  to  ^  ;  add  \  ounce 
gelatin,  and  when  dissolved,  pour  over  the  mould.  Set  in  a  cold 
place  over  night. 

Veal  may  be  done  in  tlie  same  way,  or  chicken  and  veal  may 
be  mixed. 

ROAST  CHICKEN. 

Miss   Johanna    Feeney. 

Clean  and  singe  a  chicken  not  over  a  year  old ;  stuff  with 
plain  stuffing;  fill  the  body,  also  the  place  from  which  the  crop 
came,  and  sew  them  up ;  cross  the  legs  up  under  the  skin  and 
fasten  with  a  small  skewer  to  the  rump ;  turn  the  wings  back  and 
run  a  skewer  through  them  and  the  body ;  tie  the  skewers  with 
twine ;  put  on  its  back  in  a  dripping  pan,  rub  with  butter,  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  hot  water,  and  bake  in  quick  oven 
15  minutes  to  each  pound,  basting  every  10  minutes.  Let  it  brown 
before  taking  up.  Take  off  the  strings  and  skewers,  and  serve  on 
a  hot  dish  with  giblet  gravy  in  a  boat. 

Cover  the  giblets  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  and  let  sim- 
mer while  the  chicken  is  baking :  cut  them  fine.  Put  the  dripping 
pan  on  top  the  stove,  stir  1  tablespoon  flour  into  the  gravy  ;  when 
smooth  and  brown  add  1  cup  of  the  water  in  which  the  giblets 
were  boiled,  and,  as  soon  as  it  boils,  the  giblets ;   season  to  taste. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Mrs.   P.   C.   Clarke. 

Dress  a  year  old  chicken,  and  split  it  down  the  back.  Cut 
the  neck  off  close,  cut  off  the  first  joints  of  the  legs  and  wings. 
Put  these  with  the  giblets  in  the  bottom  of  a  dripping  pan  or 
roaster ;  sprinkle  them  with  salt.  Lay  the  chicken  flat  in  the  pan 
with  the  breast  up,  rub  the  breast  with  butter,  sprinkle  a  little 
flour,  and  dust  with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  ^  cup  water  to  the 
pan,  cover  tightly  and  bake  about  H  hours,  or  till  done.  If  the 
chicken  does  not  brown  in  the  roaster,  take  off  the  lid  when  nearly 
done,  and  let  brown. 


FOWLS.  95 

STEWED  CHICKEN. 

Mrs.  Thos.  Ward. 

Cl«an,  wash  and  cut  up  1  chicken,  put  in  a  kettle  with  1  quart 
boiling  water,  1  handful  rice,  1  sliced  carrot,  1  sliced  onion  and  1 
medium  sized  sliced  potato.  Cover  and  stew  \\  hours;  wlien 
nearly  done,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  If  the  chicken 
is  old,  stew  longer. 

STEWED   CHICKEN   WITH    DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.   Isabel   Hall  Tedrow. 

Clean  and  dress  the  chicken  and  cut  into  small  pieces ;  stew 
until  tender  with  a  little  salt  in  water  enough  to  cover.  iNIake  a 
dough  of  1  quart  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  I 
heaping  tablespoon  lard,  1  level  teaspoon  salt  and  milk  enough 
so  that  it  will  not  stick  to  the  hands.  Cut  in  squares,  pour  part 
of  the  chicken  broth  into  a  baking  pan,  lay  in  the  dumplings  and 
bake  until  a  nice  brown.  Take  up  the  chicken,  lay  it  on  the  dump- 
lings on  a  hot  platter,  thicken  and  season  the  broth  and  milk 
enough   to   make   a   nice   gravy,   pour  over   the   chicken   and   serve. 

CHICKEN    CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  G.  B.  Wilson. 

Chop  a  cold  boiled  chicken  very  fine,  leaving  out  the  skin  and 
gristle.  Rub  2  tablespoons  butter  with  2  of  flour  in  a  hot  sauce- 
pan, and  add  very  slowly  1  cup  milk,  stirring  till  thick ;  take  off, 
stir  in  the  chicken  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  nut- 
meg. A  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  a  little  celery  salt,  or  finely 
chopped  parsley  may  be  added ;  also  chopped  mushrooms  or  calf's 
brains.  When  cold,  take  a  large  tablespoon  at  a  time,  form  with 
cracker  crumbs  into  a  roll,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  crumbs 
again,  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat  or  lard. 

Turkey  and  Sweetbread  Croquettes  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

CHICKEN  EN  CASSEROLE. 

Boil  2  cups  rice  and  season  well  with  butter,  cream,  salt  and 
pepper.  Press  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  let  get  cold.  Scoop 
out  the  centre  of  the  rice,  leaving  it  about  1  inch  thick  all  around, 
fill  with  stewed  chicken,  and  cover  with  the  rice.  Brush  the  top 
with  beaten  egg,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  about  15  minutes,  or  till 
brown. 

CHICKEN  JELLY. 

Pound  i  a  raw  chicken  with  the  bones  and  meat,  cover  with 
cold  water,  "and  let  simmer  till  the  meat  is  rags:  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve,  return  to  the  fire,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  sim- 
mer 5  minutes.     Skim  and  let  get  cool.     Good   for  garnishing. 

CHICKEN  LIVERS. 

Clean  the  livers  and  fry  about  10  minutes  in  a  pan  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper;  dress  on  a  dish  with  as  many  slices  of  freshly 
broiled  bacon. 


96  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

CHICKEN   PATTIES. 

Cut  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken  into  small  pieces.  Let  2 
ounces  of  chopped  lean  ham  simmer  in  a  saucepan  with  ^  pint 
stock  till  the  broth  is  reduced  to  half  ;  rub  1  spoon  each  of  butter 
and  flour  in  a  saucepan,  strain  the  stock  into  it;  add  ^  cup  cream; 
when  thick  add  the  chicken;  stir  while  keeping  at  the  boiling  point 
for  5  minutes,  put  in  fresh  patty  cases,  and  serve  garnished  with 
parsley.  If  wanted  cold,  let  get  cool  before  filling  the  cases.  A 
few  canned  mushrooms  chopped,  and  1  tablespoon  sherry  are  a 
nice  addition. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Mrs.    Caroline    Wilson. 

Dress  a  young  chicken  and  cut  in  pieces.  Place  a  few  bony 
pieces  in  the  bottom,  cut  5  or  6  potatoes  in  several  pieces  each, 
put  in  the  pan  and  over  these  the  rest  of  the  chicken.  Add  about 
1  pint  water  and  parboil  on  top  the  stove.  Then  add  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  cover  with  a  rich  pie  crust  made  of  cream  and 
butter,  and  bake  in  tlie  oven  till  the  crust  is  done.  Leave  a  vent 
in  the   middle  and  add   more   water  if   it  boils   away. 

CHICKEN   POT  PIE. 

Mrs.    Hiram   Campbell. 

Cut  the  chicken  up  and  boil  till  tender,  leaving  the  kettle 
half  full  of  broth  when  done.  Make  a  stifif  dough  of  1  pound 
flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg  and  a 
lump  of  lard  or  butter.  Cut  dough  in  strips,  put  a  layer  in  the 
kettle,  a  layer  of  chicken  on  top,  and  repeat  till  the  kettle  is 
nearly  full.  Season  to  suit  the  taste,  adding  a  lump  of  butter'  the 
size  of  a  walnut  and  celery  seed,  if  desired.  Cover  and  boil  till 
the   dumpling   is   done. 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  in  a  hot  saucepan  ; 
stir  in  1  pint  milk  till  it  boils  ;  add  i  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  stir 
in  well,  take  ofif,  add  2  cups  cold  chopped  chicken,  1  tablespoon 
chopped  parslc}',  ^  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper,  and  3  eggs  beaten 
separately.  Put  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
20  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Dress,  stufif  and  roast  as  a  chicken,  using  plain  or  potato 
stuffing.  Serve  with  giblet  gravy  and  apple  sauce,  or  currant 
jelly.     If  a  duckling,  it  should  not  be  stuffed,  nor  roasted  as  long. 

WILD  DUCK. 

Dress  as  a  chicken ;  rub  the  breast  witli  an  onion,  and  put  a 
few  raw  cranberries  inside  to  disguise  the  fishy  odor.  Put  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  inside,  and  bake  as  a  chicken,  but  do  not  stuff. 
Serve  with  currant  jelly.  If  stuffing  is  demanded,  use  potato 
stuffing. 


FOWLS.  97 

GIBLET    PIE. 

Take  the  gizzards,  livers,  necks,  legs  and  first  joint  of  wings 
of  several  chickens,  and  stew  in  just  enough  water  to  cook  tender. 
Line  the  sides  of  a  deep  disli  with  a  rich  pie  crust;  season  the 
stew  with  pepper,  salt  and  hutter,  and  pour  into  the  dish ;  cover 
with  a  crust,  slit  the  top  and  bake. 

GERMAN  POTTED  GOOSE. 

Take  off  the  excess  fat  from  a  nicely  dressed  goose,  and  boil 
till  nearly  tender  in  just  water  enough  to  cook  it:  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  add  1  pint  good  cider  vinegar ;  boil  till  very  tender ; 
then  pack  in  a  stone  crock,  leaving  the  bones  in.  It  is  sliced  up 
cold. 

Turkey  and  chicken   may  be  cooked  the  same  way. 

ROAST  GOOSE. 

Prepare  the  same  as  a  chicken  using  potato  or  onion  .stuffing. 
Place  in  a  dripping  pan,  add  1  cup  water  and  1  teaspoon  salt,  and 
roast  1  hour  in  a  cpiick  oven,  basting  every  10  minutes  ;  then  cool 
the  oven  and  finish  at  a  moderate  heat.  Allow  25  minutes  to  a 
pound  for  a  goose;  15  minutes  for  a  gosling.  Serve  with  apple 
sauce. 

GOOSE   STUFFED   WITH   SAUERKRAUT. 

Prepare  tlic  goose  as  for  roasting,  fill  with  sauerkraut,  sew  it 
up,  put  in  a  kettle,  cover  first  with  sauerkraut,  then  with  boiling 
water,  and  sinmier  -3  hours.  Take  up,  put  in  a  dripping  pan,  dredge 
with  butter  and  flour,  and  bake  about  1  hour  or  till  brown.  Take 
up  the  kraut  on  a  hot  platter,  and  place  the  goose  on  top  to  serve. 

GUINEA   FOWLS. 
Fricassee  or  stew  as  chicken,  or  bake  in  a  pot  pie. 

PARTRIDGES  A  LA  FRANCAISE. 

YsaguirrS  and  La  Marca. 

Truss  and  skewer  the  partridges ;  lay  over  their  breasts  a 
slice  of  lemon  and  a  slice  of  fat  bacon ;  wrap  in  paper  and  tie 
tightly.  Roast  |  hour ;  when  done,  take  off  the  papers,  and  serve 
cold  with  a  sauce  of  orange  juice. 

PILAU   OF   BIRDS. 

Boil  ^  dozen  small  birds  with  1  pound  bacon  in  enough  salted 
water  to  cover  well.  Take  out  when  tender,  put  2  pounds  of  rice 
into   the   water,   and  cook   till   done,   keeping  covered.     Stir  into  it 

1  cup  butter  and_  salt  to  taste.  Put  a  layer  of  rice  in  a  deep  dish, 
then  the  birds  with  bacon  in  the  middle,  next  the  liquor  and  cover 
with  the  rest  of  the  rice.     Smooth  it  and  spread  with  the  yolks  of 

2  eggs.  Cover  with  a  plate  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


98  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

ROAST    QUAIL. 

]-)ress  the  quail  as  a  chicken.  Put  in  a  hot  pan  in  a  brisk  oven„ 
lay  .a  strip  of  fat  bacon  over  the  breast,  or  a  lump  of  butter,  dust 
witlj  salt,  and  roast  15  minutes  or  till  done.  Serve  on  a  piece 
of  hpt  buttered  toast,  or  a  bread  canape. 

Squab  is  r6asteci  the  same  way,  putting  a  little  hot  water 
ih  the  pan. 

QUAIL  PIE. 

Mrs.    Joseph    Lanning. 

Boil  6  quails  until  tender  and  remove  the  hones.  Line  a; 
large  pudding  dish  with  a  good  pic  paste,  put  in  the  quails  with 
lumps  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  strips  of  paste 
across  the  pie,  fill  up  with  the  broth  the  quails  were  boiled  in,, 
put  on  a  top  crust  and  bake  until  a  rich  brown. 

Wild  pigeons  may  be  cooked  the  same  way,  and  blackbirds. 
If   the  latter,  use   four  and   twenty  if  your  oven   will   stand  it. 

BROILED  SQUAB  OR  QUAIL. 

Prepare  as  a  chicken,  split  down  the  back,  press  flat,  dip 
in  melted  butter  and  broil  over  a  steady  fire  till  done  ;  sprinkle  with 
^alt,   pepper   and   bits  of   butter,   and   serve   on   hot   buttered   toast. 

BOILED  TURKEY. 

Prepare  as  a  boiled  chicken ;  stuff  with  oyster  dressing,  or, 
not  at  all.  Wrap  in  a  floured  cloth,  put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
add  a  little  chopped  onion  and  parsley  browned  in  butter,  and 
simmer  15  minutes  to  the  pound,  or  till  done.  Serve  with  egg 
or  bread  sauce,  or,  if  unstuffed,  oyster  sauce.  Cranberries  also 
should  be  served. 

ESCALLOPED  TURKEY. 

Butter  a  deep  baking  dish,  put  into  it  diced  cold  chicken  or 
turkey,  add  any  left  over  stuffing,  and  a  can  of  mushrooms  or  a 
dozen  fresh  buttons.  Pour  over  it  a  good  white  sauce,  cover  with 
crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  and  bake. 

ROAST    TURKEY. 

Clean,  prepare  and  roast  precisely  as  a  chicken  is  roasted. 
Stuff  with  plain  or  any  fancy  dressing,  and  serve  with  cranberry 
sauce. 

TURKEY   HASH. 

Rub  H  tablespoons  flour  v>ith  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  hot- 
saucepan  :  add  1  pint  half  cream  and  half  milk.  Stir  till  it  comes 
to  the  boil,  then  add  left  over  pieces  of  turkey  chopped  fine.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Let  simmer  about  10 
minutes,  and  serve  on  slices  of  hot  buttered  toast.  Chicken  can 
be  used  the  same  way,  and  a  sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley  is  a 
good  addition.  A  green  pepper,  scalded,  seeded  and  chopped  is 
good  with  it.  The  hash  may  be  turned  into  a  baking  dish,  grated 
cheese  and  butter  sprinkled  oyer,  and  baked, 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS,  FISH  AND 
VEGETABLES. 


A.XCHOVY  BUTTER. 

Add  1  tablespoon  anchovy  paste  to  f  tablespoon  bnttcr  and 
tlie  juice  of  \  lemon.  Mix  well  and  put  in  a  cool  place  till  wanted. 
Serve  with  broiled  fisli. 

AXCHOVV   SAUCE. 

Make  1  pint  draAvn  butter  using  broth  or  water;  stir  in  1  table- 
spoon anchovy  paste  or  extract. 

APPLE   SAUCE. 

Pare,  core  and  slice  tart  apples ;  put  in  a  saucepan  and  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  cold  water ;  cook  and  stir  till  soft ;  rub 
through  a  sieve,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  a  little  butter,  turn  out  in  a 
dish,  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  top.  Serve  hot  with  meats- 
otherwise  cold.  ' 

ASPIC  JELLY. 

"Boston  Cooking   School." 

Two  tablespoons  each  of  carrots,  celerv  and  onion-  2  sprigs 
parsley  and  thyme;  2  cloves;  1  sprig  savory  and  1  bav  leaf-  i 
teaspoon  wdiole  black  pepper;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  w'ith  i  cup 
white  wine:  cook  8  minutes,  and  strain.  Put  1  quart  white  stock 
in  a  saucepan  ;  add  1  box  gelatin  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon  -  bring 
to  a  boil  and  add  the  strained  liquor.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  - 
add  the  frothy  whites  of  3  eggs,  and  2  tablespoons  wine  stirring 
constantly  till  again  at  the  boil.  Let  stand  30  minutes  at  the  back 
of  the  range.     Strain  through  a  thin  jelly  bag  into  moulds. 

Aspic  jelly  is  used  for  elaborate  entrees  w^here  roast  hirers 
or  boned  chickens,  etc.,  are  to  be  served  in  jelly,  often  fancifully 
garnished.  Use  white  stock  for  vegetables  or  white  meat ;  brown 
stock  for  dark  meat. 

BfiCHAMEL  SAUCE. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  butter  together  in  a  sauce- 
pan until  smooth  ;  stir  in  carefullx-  \  cup  cream  and  i  cup  stock  or 
hot  water  and  keep  on  stirring  till  it  boils;  take  froni  the  fire  and 
add  i  teaspoon  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  the  well  beaten  yolk 
of  1  egg.     Is  good  with  eggs,  chicken,  white  meats,  fish,  etc 

99 


100      OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

BREAD  SAUCE. 

Put  1  large  cup  milk  in  a  saucepan,  stick  2  cloves  in  a  small 
piece  of  onion,  put  it  in  the  milk  with  a  few  peppercorns,  and  let 
the  milk  keep  hot  without  boiling,  30  minutes.  Take  out  onion,  etc., 
stir  in  3  oz.  bread  crumbs,  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  add  1  table- 
spoon cream,  1  teaspoon  butter,  salt  to  taste,  and  serve. 

BROWN  BUTTER. 

Put  1  tablespoon  butter  ii^.  a  frying  pan  and  toss  over  a  brisk 
fire  until  brown  without  burning.  Serve  over  boiled  potatoes,  Brus- 
sels sprouts,  or  any  vegetable  requiring  a  butter  sauce,  including 
plain  boiled  macaroni  or  noodles. 

CAPER   SAUCE. 

Rub  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  1]  talilcspnons  butter  with  2 
tablespoons  flour:  then  add  1  pint  mutton  broth  or  white  broth, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  let  cook  down  to  half  the  quantity, 
stirring  occasionally.  Add  2  tablespoons  capers,  boiling  2  minutes 
more.  Beat  up  the  yolk  of  I  egg  with  \  cup  cream  and  stir  into 
the    sauce.     Wlicn    scalding    hot,    serve.     Use    with    boiled    mutton. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

Cut  up  very  fine  4  branches  of  the  white  part  of  celery  and 
boil  15  minutes  with  H  cups  cold  water  and  J  teaspoon  salt.  Make 
a  cream  sauce  in  a  saucepan,  using  half  the  celery  water  instead  of 
milk ;  add  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  and  i  cup  good  cream. 
Mix  well,  add  the  celery  rubbed  through  a  colander,  simmer  for  5 
minutes,  and  serve.     Tt  is  used  with  fowl. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Wash  the  cranberries,  and  put  in  a  granite  saucepan  with 
cold  water  enough  to  be  visible.  Boil  about  10  minutes  till  soft , 
rub  through  a  colander,  return  to  the  saucepan  with  half  the  quan- 
tity of  sugar,  and  heat  slowly  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  the 
fruit  nearly  at  the  boil.     Serve  cold   with  game  or  mutton. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  butter  and  2  tablespoons  .flour  together  in 
a  hot  saucepan.  Pour  in  a  scant  half  cup  of  hot  milk  and  after 
a  moment's  boiling  the  same  quantity  of  sweet  cream.  Seasbn  to 
taste  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and,  if  liked,  a  very  little 
grated    nutmeg.     Let   simmer    for   several    minutes   and    serve    hot. 

CREAM   TOMATO   SAUCE. 

Heat  the  quantity  of  tomato  sauce  desired,  add  J  cup  cream, 
stir  in  rapidly  and  serve. 


SAUCES   POR   MEATS,   FISH   AND    VEGETABLES.  101 

CUKKV    SAUCE. 

Chop  1  niediuin  onion  and  l)ro\vn  it  in  a  saucepan  with  1 
tablespoon  butter;  add  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  lean  ham,  J  a 
branch  of  celery  and  J^  a  green  pepper  both  chopped,  1  clove  and. 
^  dozen  black  peppers.  Mix  thoroughly  and  cook  5  minutes. 
Season  with  h  teaspoon  salt,  h  tablespoon  flour  and  1  teaspoon 
curr}'  powder.  Mix  well,  and  add  1  cup  soup  stock  or  boiling 
water.  Simmer  for  20  minutes  stirring  occasionally.  Beat  up  the 
yolk  of  1  egg  with  1  tablespoon  cream,  add  it  and  let  get  scalding 
hot.     Strain  anxi  serve  hot. 

CUCUMBER  SAUCE. 

Peel  and  seed  2  large  cucumbers,  grate  and  drain ;  add  1 
tablespoon  fmel}'  chopped  red  peppers ;  mix  with  |  pint  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Or,  mix  with  i  teaspoon  pepper,  I  a  grated  onion,  i  teaspoon 
salt,  and  1  teaspoon  vinegar.  On  serving  stir  in  3  tablespoons  rich 
cream  whipped. 

DEVILLED  BUTTER. 

^  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  \  teaspoon  salt,  half  as  much  cayenne  pepper,  i  teaspoon 
ground  mustard,  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  thoroughly  mixed  together. 
L^sc  with  devilled  crabs,  lobsters,  etc. 

DEVILLED   SAUCE. 

Chop  a  small  onion  fine  and  brown  in  i  tablespoon  butter  ;  add 
^  teaspoon  ground  mustard,  1  teaspoon  flour,  1  of  salt,  1  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  1  of  Worcestershire  sauce ;  cayenne  pepper  to 
taste.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  four  peeled,  crushed  and  strained 
tomatoes  or  the  same  amount  of  canned  tomatoes.  Boil  slowly 
about  15  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  When  done,  stir  in  1  even 
teaspoon  butter,  and  serve  hot  with  broiled  fish. 

DRAWN    BUTTER. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  flour  with  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  hot  sauce- 
pan :  stir  in  gradually  1  cup  boiling  water,  and  J  teaspoon  salt. 
When  it  begins  to  thicken,  take  up  and  use  immediately. 

EGG  SAUCE. 

Make  J  pint  drawn  butter,  and  add  to  it  2  or  3  chopped  hard 
boiled  eggs.     Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

GREEN  BUTTER. 

1  spring  onion,  2  sprays  parsley,  1  branch  fresh  watercress 
all  chopped  fine,  Ih  saltspoons  salt  and  h  as  much  cayenne  pepper, 
pounderl  in  a  mortar  or  rubbed  in  a  dish  to  a  pulp.  Add  a  small 
tablespoon  butter  and.  pound  again  until  well  mixed.  Strain 
through  a   sieve,  and   put  in   a  cool   place  until   wanted. 


102  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

I-TOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  -}  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  paprika, 
2  tablespoons  butter,  and  half  a  cup  hot  water.  Set  the  dish  over 
hot  water,  and  cook,  stirring  continuously  and  adding  butter  grad- 
ually until  half  a  cup  has  been  used.  When  the  sauce  thickens, 
remove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  serve 
immediately. 

HORSE  RADISH  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Martin. 

]  cup  grated  horse  radish,  J  teaspoon  mixed  mustard,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  ]\Iix  together  with  h  cup  cream,  plain  or 
whipped. 

HORSE  RADISH  SAUCE   (HOT). 

Rub  1  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  butter  into  1  cup  boiling 
milk,  add  h  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  10  minutes.  Mix  in  3 
tablespoons  freshly  grated  horse  radish,  and  boil  1  minute  longer. 

ITALIAN    SAUCE. 

Brown  a  finelv  chopped  onion  in  butter  in  a  saucepan,  stir  in  1 
teaspoon  flour;  add  i^  cup  strong  soup  or  broth,  J  cup  tomato 
sauce  and  a  wineglass  white  wine;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  a  very  little  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and,  if  at 
hand,  a  dozen  chopped  mushrooms.  Mix  well  and  cook  until  only 
half   the   quantity.     Serve   with   baked   fish. 

LYONNAISE  SAUCE. 

Brown  a  finely  sliced  Spanish  onion  in  a  saucepan  with  1 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  then  add  1  cup  tomato  sauce  and  J  cup 
strong  broth  or  left  over  soup.  Add  the  juice  of  |  lemon,  \  tea- 
spoon salt,  half  as  much  cayenne  pepper,  and  J  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley;  mix  well,  boil  for  12  minutes  and  serve.  Nice  with 
hashed  meat  on  toast. 

MATTRE  D'HOTEL  BUTTER. 

Mix  on  a  cold  soup  plate,  3  ounce  butter,  \  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  \  teaspoon  chopped  chervil,  h  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  1  salt- 
spoon  salt  and  h  saltspoon  pepper.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  till 
wanted. 

MINT  JELLY,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.    Frank    Connell. 

Tear  (>  large  stalks  of  mint,  pour  over  them  1  pint  boiling 
water,  and  let  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  15  minutes. 
Strain,  extracting  all  the  juice,  and  return  to  the  stove  adding  IJ 
envelopes  of  powdered  gelatin,  1  small  cup  sugar,  and  the  juice  of 
a  lemon.     Strain  and  mould. 


SAUCES   FOR   MEATS,   FISH   AND    VEGETABLES.  lO'S 
MINT  JELLY,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Frank    Connell. 

Wash  3  quarts  grapes  fully  grown  but  still  perfectly  green. 
Put  tbcm  over  the  fire  with  3  pints  boiling  water  and  cook  15 
minutes,  breaking  and  mashing  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Turn  into  a 
jelly  bag  and  strain.  Measure  the  juice  and  return  to  the  kettle 
with  3  sprigs  of  freshly  bruised  spearmint.  Cook  20  minutes,  skim, 
remove  mint,  and  for  each  cup  of  juice,  add  a  scant  cup  of  hot 
sugar.  Stir  until  it  boils  up,  and  turn  into  glasses.  A  little  green 
vegetable  coloring  should  be  added,  or  a  few  drops  of  extract 
of    mint. 

Apples  may  be  used  instead  of  the  grapes,  witli  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

Mrs.    Carrie    Shuttlewortli. 

Chop  fine  1  cup  mint,  and  add  to  it  2  cups  vinegar  and  1  table- 
spoon  sugar.     Mix  and  let  stand   J  hour.     Serve  with   roast  Iamb. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE,  NO.  1. 

Chop  very  fine  1  dozen  canned  button  mushrooms.  Boil  for  a 
few  minutes  with  1  wineglass  sherry,  add  ^  cup  good  stock,  boil  5 
minutes    longer    and    serve    hot    with    meats. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE,  NO.  2. 

Peel  and  wash  12  fresh  mushrooms,  chop  fine,  put  in  a  sauce 
pan  with  1  tablespoon  butter  and  the  juice  of  ^  lemon,  and  cook  for 
5  or  6  minutes  stirring  occasionally.  Stir  in  1  tablespoon  flour ; 
then  add  |  cup  mixed  cream  and  milk,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  J  teaspoon 
cayenne  pepper;  mix  and  let  boil  for  6  minutes.  Add  H  table- 
spoons sherry,  and   serve  hot.     Used  with  croquettes,   etc. 

MUSTARD  DRESSING. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  double  boiler,  add  1  teaspoon 
French  mustard,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2 
tablespoons  cream,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  raw  eggs.  Beat  smooth 
and  heat  until  thick. 

OKRA  SAUCE. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  ripe  tomatoes  and  young  okras ;  skin 
the  tomatoes,  chop  the  okras  with  1  onion,  and  stew  all  together 
till  tender;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  I  tablespoon  butter.  Serve 
with    cold   meat. 

ONION  SAUCE. 

Boil  1  cup  milk;  season  to  taste;  add  1  small  lump  butter,  1 
tablespoon  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  ■)  onions  boiled 
and   chopped   line. 


104  OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Add  the  grated  rind  of  2  oranges  to  6  tablespoons  currant 
jelly  and  1^  tablespoons  white  sugar.  Beat  for  5  minutes.  Add 
the  juice  of  oranges  and  1  lemon,  mix  well  together  and  strain. 
2  tablespoons  port  or  sherry  improve  the  sauce.  Serve  with  roast 
fowl. 

OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour  in  a  hot  saucepan,  ad- 
ding 1  cup  milk  and  stirring  till  smooth ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  1  pint  oysters  cliopped  and  boiled  in  their  own  liquor 
5  minutes ;    bring  all  to  the  boil. 

PAPRIKA  SAUCE. 

Rub  together  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour,  put  the 
saucepan  over  the  tire  while  rubbing,  add  a  scant  |  cup  cream 
and  milk  mixed,  half  a  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  paprika,  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg :  stir  briskly  until  it  has  boiled  several  minutes, 
take  up  and  serve  hot.     Used  with  shell  fish. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE. 

Boil  3  pieces  fresh  parsley  for  5  minutes  in  f  cup  milk,  strain 
and  add  to  1  tablespoon  butter  well  rubbed  into  1^^  tablespoons 
flour.  Beat  up  an  egg  yolk  with  1  tablespoon  cream  and  1  tea- 
spoon vinegar,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  ^  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  stir  into  the  sauce  when  it  reaches  the  boil,  sti" 
hard  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  pour  into  a  sauce  bowl  for  im 
mediate  use. 

PIQUANTE  SAUCE. 

Chop  separately  6  shallots  or  small  onions,  and  6  sharp 
gherkins ;  mix  with  1  tablespoon  capers.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  h 
cup  white  vinegar,  some  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper. 
Simmer  till  the  vinegar  is  reduced  to  J.  Add  1-  cup  white  stock, 
boil  a  few  minutes,  skim,  take  out  the  thyme  and  bay  leaf,  and 
serve   in   a   gravy   boat. 

POLISH  CRUMBS. 

Put  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  hot  frying  pan.  Add  2  or  3 
tablespoons  fresh  breadcrumbs,  and  toss  till  a  golden  brown. 
Sprinkle  over  any  vegetable  dressed  with  a  cream  sauce. 

PURfiE  OF  CHESTNUTS. 

Plunge  3  dozen  Italian  chestnuts  slit  on  one  side  into  boiling 
water  for  10  minutes,  drain  and  peel.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  \\ 
cups  cold  water ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  cover,  bring  to  the 
boil,  and  cook  in  the  oven  35  minutes.  Turn  into  a  mortar  and 
pomid  to  a  smooth  paste,  press  through  a  sieve,  add  1  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  i  oimce  butter,  and  2  tablespoons  cream,  and  serve 
Vihen  hot. 


SAUCES   FOR   MEATS,   FISH   AKD    J'EGETABLES.  105 

SAUCE  RORERT. 

Brown  a  medium  sized  sliced  onion  in  a  saucepan  with  I 
tablespoon  butter ;  rub  in  1  tablespoon  flour.  Add  1  cup  rich  broth 
or  left  over  soup,  8  little  pickles  finely  chopped,  1  teaspoon  French 
nnistard,  and  ^  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Add  2  tablespoons 
vinegar,  and,  if  at  hand,  1  tablespoon  chopped  capers.  Let  boil 
slowly  stirring  occasionally.      Serve   with   boiled   beef. 

SAUCE  SUPREME. 

Clean  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  a  raw  freshly  dressed 
chicken ;  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  onion,  1  branch  parsley, 
1  of  celery,  i  teaspoon  salt,  half  as  much  pepper,  and  i  as  much 
nutmeg,  if  liked.  J  cup  white  wine,  and  a  little  leek  and  chervil 
are  good  additions,  if  at  hand.  Let  simmer  f  hour,  skimming  oc- 
casionally. Melt  in  a  sauce  pan  1  tablespoon  butter  with  1| 
tablespoons  flour,  strain  ^  the  broth  into  the  saucepan,  and  boil 
down  to  half  the  quantity,  stirring  occasionally.  Beat  up  J  cup 
cream  with  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  stir  into  the  sauce ;  when  scalding 
hot  remove  from  the  fire,  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  and  serve. 
Good  with  croquettes  of  any  white  meat. 

SAUCE  TARTARE. 

Chop  very  fine  and  mix  3  small  pickles,  ^  teaspoon  parsley, 
1  teaspoon  capers,  i  teaspoon  tarragon  vinegar,  and  a  few  drops 
onion  juice.  Chopped  olives  may  take  the  place  of  capers.  Add 
to  f  cup  good  mayonnaise,  and  keep  cold  until  served.  Use  with 
fried  fish. 

SHRIMP  SAUCE. 

Add  shrimps  cut  rather  coarsely  to  a  good  cream  or  Bechamel 
Sauce. 

SWEET  PEPPER  BUTTER. 

Pound  4  Spanish  sweet  peppers  to  a  pulp,  press  through  a 
sieve,  add  ^  ounce  good  butter,  mix  and  use  with  broiled  fish. 

TABLE  MUSTARD. 

Mrs.    George    Ewing. 

Take  1  tablespoon  dry  mustard,  add  2  of  flour.  2  of  brown 
sugar,  1  of  butter  and  5  teacup  boiling  vinegar  with  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Sift  the  flour  and  mustard  together,  add  the  other  ingredients 
and   stir  in  the   vinegar  until  a   smooth  paste. 

TARRAGON  SAUCE. 

Use  tarragon  vinegar  instead  of  ordinary  vinegar  in  making 
a  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  when  finished  add  i  teaspoon  chopped 
tarragon   leaves   if  they   arc   obtainable. 


10b  OLD    COUXTRV   RECIPES  AMD    NEW. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Add  1  small  chopped  onion,  1  branch  chopped  parsley  and  i 
branch  chopped  celery  to  1  pint  stewed  tomatoes,  with  1  bay  leaf 
•and  1  blade  mace.  Simmer  slowly  for  10  minutes.  Rub  to- 
P'ether  until  smooth  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  in  a 
hot  saucepan ;  strain  the  sauce  into  the  pan  through  a  sieve, 
st^ir  constantly  until  it  boils,  and  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Any  kind  of  chopped  raw  meat  may  be  added  if  wanted  stronger. 
It  keeps  well  sealed,  and  it  saves  time  to  put  up  a  few  bottles, 
of   the   sauce   when  canning  tomatoes  in   the   fall. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 

Melt  .]  cup  butter  in  a  hot  saucepan,  rub  in  well  \\  tablespoons 
tlorr,  then  1  pint  milk,  stirring  constantly  till  it  boils.  Several 
tablespoons  of  finely  chopped  cauliflower  make  a  nice  addition 
in  some  cases.     Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper. 

WORCESTERSHIRE  SAUCE. 

"Glasgow  Exchange." 

Boil  2  drachms  mace,  2  ounces  cayenne  pods,  and  1  quart  malt 
vinegar  15  minutes,  put  in  a  jar.  and  add  4  ounces  shallots  and  1 
ounce  garlic  sliced.  Let  stand  14  days,  strain  and  add  6  ounces 
Indian   soy.      Bottle  and   seal. 


VEGETABLES. 


FRENCH  ARTICHOKES. 

Scrape  the  artichokes  and  drop  in  water  to  prevent  discoloring. 
Chop  fine.  Cover  with  water  and  boil  nntil  tender ;  drain ; 
nearly  cover  with  milk ;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
a  few  moments. 

JERUSALEAI  ARTICHOKES. 

Peel  and  wash  the  artichokes  well.  Plunge  them  in  boiling 
salted  water  and  boil  15  minutes.  Drain,  and  put  in  a  skillet  with 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook 
till  brown,  turning  them  occasionally.  Sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  them,  toss  a  little  and  take  up. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape  and  cut  off  the  ends  of  fresh  asparagus,  wash  well,  tic 
in  bunches,  and  plunge  in  3  quarts  boiling  water  with  I  table- 
spoon salt.  Cover  and  boil  25  minutes,  or  until  done.  Take  up 
and  drain,  and  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  with  a  good 
cream  sauce  served  separately.  Or  prepare  several  slices  of  fresh 
buttered  toast,  lay  the  asparagus  on  these  and  cover  with  a  cream 
sauce,  or  drawn  butter  made  with  the  asparagus  water  instead 
of  fresh  water. 

ASPARAGUS  PUDDING. 

Boil  the  green  tops  of  2  bunches  asparagus  till  tender ;  cut 
in  small  pieces.  Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  .saucepan,  add  4  well 
beaten  eggs,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  1  cup  milk  ;  beat  all  to- 
gether adding  very  gradually  4  tablespoons  flour ;  cook  till  smooth ; 
add  the  asparagus,  turn  into  a  buttered  mould,  cover,  put  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  2  hours.  Serve  in  a  pudding  dish 
with   a   cup   drawn   butter   poured   around   it. 

BAKED  BEANS,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.   C.   A.   Judson. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night.  In  the  morning,  parboil,  changing 
the  water  a  couple  of  times.  Put  in  an  iron  skillet,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt;  put  several  thin  slices  of  good  bacon  on  top, 
then  another  layer  of  beans  and  of  bacon,  sprinkling  U  table- 
spoons brown  sugar  through  the  dish.  Bake  in  the  oven  about  2 
hours.  Half  a  small  bottle  tomato  catsup  poured  over  the  beans 
before  baking  is  an  addition   relished  by   many. 

1U7 


108  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

BAKED   BEANS,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  John  Davis. 

Soak  2^  cups  soup  beans  over  night.  Next  morning  drain, 
and  boil  slowly  20  minutes.  Drain  again  and  put  into  a  baking 
pan  or  pot  with  1  small  onion  sliced,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  quart 
cooked  tomatoes,  and  1  large  piece  of  pork.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.     Bake  3  hours. 

BAKED  BEANS,   NO.  3. 

Mrs.    Emzi    Davidson. 

Soak  1  quart  beans  over  night ;  in  the  morning  parboil  until 
the  skin  is  broken ;  set  the  pan  in  the  oven,  salt  to  taste,  put  in 
J  pound  salt  or  fresh  pork,  1  tablespoon  ground  mustard  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water,  and  2  tablespoons  molasses.  Put  1  large 
onion  on  top,  and  bake  2   hours. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

Mrs.    Ellis    Koon. 

Boil  1  quart  beans  till  almost  tender ;  drain,  put  in  a  covered 
baking  dish  a  layer  of  beans,  then  a  layer  breakfast  bacon. 
cut  small,  and  repeat  till  full ;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  add 
a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  small  cup  dark  brown 
sugar.  Cover  well  with  water,  and  bake  several  hours  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  replenishiing  the  water  as  necessary.  Remove  the 
cover  the  last  hour  to  brown. 

DRIED  BEANS. 

Soak  1  pint  shelled  beans  of  any  variety  over  night  in  warm 
water ;  drain  and  soak  again  in  f  resJi  warm  water.  Boil  2  hours 
in  soft  water,  changing  the  water  at  least  once,  and  salting  the 
second  time ;   drain  and  dress  as  fresh  beans. 

LIMA  OR  BUTTER  BEANS. 

Shell  the  beans,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  30  minutes, 
or  till  done ;  drain,  add  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  and  \  cup  boiling 
milk  or  cream,   if  liked. 

STRING  BEANS,  NO.   1. 

String  the  beans  and  break  into  short  lengths  ;  let  soak  in  cold 
water  \  hour ;  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  at  least  1  hour ; 
drain,  add  salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste.  Or  put  in  a  hot  skillet 
with  a  little  bacon,  season  and  fry  a  few  minutes.  Or  heat  again 
in  a   cream  sauce. 

STRING  BEANS,  NO.  2. 

Slice  several  small  onions  and  brown  in  butter ;  add  1  table- 
spoon flour  and  a  little  meat  broth  or  stock ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  when  boiling  stir  in  some  string  beans  previously 
boiled   and   diced.      Cook   about   10  minutes. 


VEGETABLES.  109 

BEETS. 

Wash  but  do  not  scrape  or  peel  ;  cover  with  boiHng  soft  water, 
and  cook  from  1  to  4  hours  according  to  age ;  when  tender  throw 
into  cold  water,  rub  ofif  the  skins,  slice,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  melted  butter,  and  serve. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BEETS. 

"Buckeye  Cook  Book." 

Boil  and  skin  joung,  tender  beets,  mash  together  with  hot 
boiled  potatoes,  and  season  with  salt;  add  a  large  lump  of  butter. 
Put  in  a  hot  covered  dish  with  a  big  lump  of  butter  on  top, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

Pick  oft'  all  the  dead  leaves  from  the  sprouts.  Wash  well, 
changing  the  water  until  clean.  Put  into  boiling  water  with  1 
teaspoon  salt  and  boil  about  2n  minutes.  Drain  and  serve  in  a 
covered  dish  with  drawn  butter.  May  also  be  returned  from  the 
drainer  to  a  hot  saucepan  with  a  little  melted  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  tossed  until  thoroughly  hot.  They  are  good  also  with 
brown  butter. 

CRE.\MED  CABBAGE. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Ewing. 

Chop  the  cabbage  fine,  and  stew  till  tender.  Drain,  season 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  ^  cup  rich  milk  or  cream.  Let 
simmer  a   few   minutes  before   serving. 

FRIED  CABBAGE. 

Slice  or  chop  the  cabbage  fine ;  put  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
very  little  water,  cover  closely  and  let  steam  till  tender ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  a  little  pork  dripping  and  fry  brown. 

Kraut  may  be  fried  in  the  same  way. 

STEWED  CABBAGE. 

Mrs.    John    Johnson. 

Cut  the  cabbage  up  fine  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water. 
Drain  through  a  colander.  To  a  quart  of  cabbage  allow  1  table- 
spoon butter,  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Put  back  on  the  fire  and 
stew  o  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 

CARROTS. 

Scrape  and  wash  2  dozen  very  small  spring  carrots.  Place 
m  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  J  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
sugar,  and  half  as  much  pepper;  add  nearly  1  pint  water,  cover 
and  leave  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes,  then  put  in  the  oven  for 
45  minutes.     Drain  and  use  as  a  garnish  for  beef. 


110  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CREAMED  CARROTS. 

Scrape  and  wash  12  small  carrots,  cut  into  slices  \  inch  thick, 
put  in  a  saucepan  with  i  tahlespoon  butter  and  k  pint  white  broth. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley  and  a  very  Tittle  sugar.  Mix, 
cover  the  pan  and  boil  10  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  30 
minutes.     Turn  into  a   vegetable   dish  and  serve. 

GLAZED  CARROTS. 

Wash  and  scrape  6  large  carrots,  parboil  in  salted  water ; 
drain  well  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  stock,  and  a  large 
lump  of  sugar;  boil  over  a  brisk  tire  till  reduced  to  a  glaze;  add 
2  tablespoons  butter  and  a  sprinkling  of  salt.  Shake  till  the  butter 
is  well  mixed.     The  carrots  should  take  up  all  the  sauce  in  the  pan. 

BOILED   CAULIFLOWER. 

Cut  the  stem  off  close  to  the  head,  take  off  all  the  leaves,  and 
cut  out  any  spots ;  wash  well  and  soak  upside  down  in  cold  water 
1  hour.  Tie  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth,  put  right  side  up  in  a  kettle 
of  boiling  salted  water,  cover  and  boil  30  to  45  minutes,  or  till 
tender.  When  done,  take  off  the  cloth,  drain,  put  in  a  hot  vege- 
table dish,  pour  over  it  a  cream  sauce,  and  serve.  Broccoli  is 
boiled  in  the  same  way. 

ESCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Mrs.    John    Whitmer. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  whole,  and  place  in  a  deep  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  with  the  stem  down.  Make  a  sauce  with  1  cup  bread 
crumbs  beaten  to  a  froth  with  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  3 
of  cream  or  milk,  1  well  beaten  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Pour  this  over  the  cauliflower,  cover  tight  and  bake  6  minutes  in 
a  quick  oven,  browning  it  nicely. 

FRIED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Clean  a  cauliflower,  break  into  its  separate  florets,  and  let 
cook  in  cold  water  1  hour.  Drain,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 
stew  until  tender.  Drain  and  cool.  Sprinkle  with  fine  cracker 
crumbs,  dip  in  egg  beaten  up  with  a  tablespoon  hot  water,  then 
in  crumbs  again,  and  fry  brown  in  deep,  hot  fat.  Garnish  with 
parsley.  Or  cook  5  minutes  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  little  butter, 
without  the   egg  and   crumbs. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN. 

Drain  a  freshly  boiled  cauliflower,  and  separate  the  florets ; 
add  to  a  boiling  cream  sauce  with  1  tablespoon  grated  cheecc, 
pour  into  a  baking  di'sh,  sprinkle  with  a  little  more  cheese,  and 
bake  15  minutes. 


VEGETABLES.  Ill 

STF:^VED  Cl'XERY. 

Cut  the  outside  pieces  of  celerv  into  small  pieces.  Boil  until 
tender  witli  a  little  salt.  Drain  well.  Make  a  good  cream  sauce, 
stir  the  celery  in  well,  season  to  taste  and  serve  hot.  The  roots 
also  may  be  scraped,  cut  up,  and  stewed. 

CELERY   CROQUETTES. 

Chop  the  white  part  of  celery  and  add  an  equal  amount  of 
bread  crumbs:  to  a  quart  of  this  mixture  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  and  if  needed  a  little  milk;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper ;   form   and   fry   as   other  cro'iuettes. 

BOILED  CORN. 

Clean  the  corn,  removing  every  thread  of  silk;  put  in  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water,  and  boil  rapidly  I'l  minutes.  Serve  on  a  plate 
covered  with  a  napkin.  If  liked,  it  may  be  boiled  in  the  inner 
husks. 

DRIED   CORN. 

Cover  with  warm  water  and  let  soak  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  more  water  if  necessary,  and  boil  slowly  2  or  more  hours; 
dress  with   salt,   pepper,   butter  and   cream. 

ESCALLOPED   CORN. 

Mrs.  Vernon  Webb. 

Butter  a  baking  dish.  Put  in  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  and 
then  a  layer  of  corn  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  sugar  and 
bits  of  butter :  then  another  layer  of  crumbs  and  lastly  corn  with 
its  seasoning.     Fill  the  dish  with  milk  and  bake  about  |  hour. 

FRIED  CORN. 

Boil  several  ears  of  corn  in  salted  water  with  a  little  milk  for 
1-")  minutes.  Drain,  run  a  knife  between  the  rows,  press  out  the 
grains  with  the  back  of  the  blade ;  have  1  tablespoon  butter  melted 
in  a  hot  saucepan,  add  the  corn,  and  fry  10  minutes,  tossing  fre- 
ouentlv.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  in  a  hot  covered 
di'^h. 

ROAST  CORN. 

Husk  and  clean  the  ears  of  corn,  plunge  in  boiling  salted 
wpter  and  boil  15  minutes.  Drain  ;  put  in  a  pan,  baste  with  a  little 
melted  butter,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  until  a  good  brown,  turning 
occasionally.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish  in  a  napkin. 

STEWED  CORN,   NO.   1. 

Split  and  cut  the  corn  from  four  good  sized  ears;  add  hve 
tablespoons  good  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter.  |  teaspoon  salt,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  f  of  ah  hour,  stirring  frequently.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  turn  into  a  covered  dish  to 
serve. 


112  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

STEWED   CORN,   NO.  2. 

Take  canned  corn,  or  corn  cut  from  cold  boiled  cobs,  add  cream, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,   and   cook  5  minutes. 

CORN   FRITTERS,   NO.   1. 

Mrs.    John   Terry. 

Mix  well  together  1  can  corn,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  12  finely  rolled  crackers,  1  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  salt,  butter,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Drop  by  table- 
spoons into  hot  skillet  and  fry  brown  in  butter  or  lard. 

CORN  FRITTERS,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Florence   Humphrey. 

Take  4  dozen  ears  of  corn,  clean  them  and  grate  off  all  the 
corn  ;  add  3  well  beaten  eggs,  \  cup  sweet  milk,  \  cup  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  and  salt  to  taste.  Drop  by  tablespoons  into 
boiling  fat,   and    fry  a   nice   brown.     Serve   hot. 

CORN  OYSTERS,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.    C.    F.    Frasure. 

Beat  3  eggs  till  light ;  add  7  rolled  crackers,  salt  and  butter  to 
taste,  and  1  can  corn;  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  a  hot  skillet  with  a 
little  butter ;  serve  hot. 

CORN  OYSTERS,  NO.  2. 

Cut  and  scrape  or  grate  the  corn  from  the  cob ;  make  a  batter 
of  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  tlour,  salt,  pepper,  \  pint  milk, 
and  1  pint  corn.  Beat  all  together,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  a 
skillet  with  hot  butter  or  lard  in.     Fry  brown. 

CORN    PIE. 
Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

1  quart  of  tender  green  corn  split  and  scraped  from  the  cobs  : 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  add  1  heaping  tablespoon 
butter.  Have  ready  a  nicely  stewed  chicken ;  put  a  layer  of  corn 
is  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  chicken,  repeating  this  until  it 
has  all  been  used,  having  the  corn  last.  Pour  over  it  the  chicken 
gravy  and  1   cup  sweet  cream.     Bake  in  a  moderate   oven. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

Take  about  eight  ears  young,  fresh  corn ;  cut  the  length  of 
the  cob  through  the  grains  and  scrape  out  all  the  pulp ;  add  1 
pint  milk,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  and-  some  salt.  Beat  all  together 
well.  Grease  a  pudding  dish,  and  pour  the  mixture  in,  adding 
small  lumps  of  butter.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  1  hour. 


VEGETABLES.  113 

CORN  SALAD. 

Corn  salad  may  be  cooked  and  served  as  spinach,  or,  fresh, 
as  a  salad. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS,  NO.   1. 

Peel,  slice  lengthwise,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker 
crumbs,  bread  crumbs,  corn  meal  or  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  butter 
or   lard. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS,  NO.  2. 

Melt  H  tablespoons  butter  in  a  frying  pan.  Add  1  sliced  white 
onion  and.  when  beginning  to  brown,  2  large  peeled  and  sliced 
fresh  cucumbers.  Season  with  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and  half  as  much 
pepper;  toss  while  cooking  for  5  minutes;  add  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
and  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  tossing  for  ^  minute.  Serve  on 
a  hot  dish. 

DIXIE. 

Mix  1  cup  cold  boiled  hominy,  1  cup  milk,  1  well  beaten  egg, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  in  a  deep  dish 
and  bake  30  minutes. 

FRIED  EGG-PLANT. 

Pare  the  egg-plant  and  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  dust  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  or  dip  in  egg  and  then  in  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  both  sides  till  brown  in  dripping.  Drain  on 
brown  paper  and  serve  hot. 

STUFFED   EGG-PLANT. 

Boil  *ill  tender  f about  30  minutes),  cut  in  h.'df,  scoop  out  the 
meat,  mash  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  back  in  the  ."^ins  ; 
sprinkle  the  tops  with  bread  crumbs,   and  brown  in   the  oven. 

GREENS. 

IMany  young  plants  in  early  spring  may  be  picked  in  lawns 
and  pastures  and  cooked  like  spinach,  making  wholesome  and 
delicious  greens.  Dandelions  are  among  the  earliest.  Cut  ofT  the 
stems,  flower  stalks  and  dead  leaves,  wash  the  green  leaves  through 
several  waters,  and  boil  several  hours,  changing  the  water  at  least 
once,  and  salting  the  last  water.  Drain,  season  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  serve ;  or  fry  several  minutes  with  a  few  slices  of 
bacon  in  a  skillet.  The  long  leaves  of  the  curly  or  narrow  dock 
will  cook  in  much  less  time,  and.  reduce  the  bitterness  of  the 
dandelion.  The  young  shoots  of  poke  come  next.  They  should 
be  gathered  when  just  appearing  above  the  ground;  after  4  inches 
they  are  unwholesome,  though  the  tops  may  be  used  when  some- 
what larger.  These  should  cook  within  an  hour,  changing  the 
water   several    times.     Serve   as  greens,   or   on   toast    as   asparagus 


114  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

with  a  cream  sauce.  Later  the  _voung  shoots  of  wild  mustard  and 
cress  appear  in  the  garden  and  lamb's  quarter  which,  however, 
must  be  carefully  watched  for  insects,  the  sprouts  from  old  tur- 
nips, the  leaves  of  fresh  radishes,  and  young  beets  with  their 
roots.  If  the  greens  are  mixed,  allow  at  least  2  hours  of  hard 
boiling  in  salted  water,  and  serve  as  you  like  spinach.  A  piece  of 
salt  pork   may  be   boiled   witFi   dandelions  or  beets. 

HOMINY. 

Soak  1  quart  of  large  hominy  over  night,  put  over  the  fire  in 
a  double  boiler,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  boil  5  hours.  Do 
not  stir.  If  the  water  boils  off  before  it  is  done,  add  more  boiling 
water.     Boil    or   steam   perfectly   dry,  and   salt  as   it   is   dished  up. 

KALE. 
Kale  is  cooked  and  served  the  same  as  spinach. 

KOHL  RABI. 

This  resembles  the  turnip  and  is  very  nice  when  the  heails 
are  not  too  large.  Pare,  cut  in  slices  crosswise,  and  wash.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  it  and  cook  an  hour  or  more  till  tender.  Drain, 
heat  in  a  saucepan  and  mash  fine ;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
butter. 

Or  dice  instead  of  slicing,  and  serve  with  a  cream  sauce. 

Or  dice,  and  when  cooked  tender,  put  in  a  frying  pan  with  1 
tablespoon  butter  and  as  much  sugar;  stir  till  a  delicate  brown;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

Or  dice,  and  when  tender,  put  into  a  baking  dish  with  a  cream 
sauce,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake. 

LENTILS. 

Wash  and  soak  the  lentils  over  night;  boil  like  dandelions, 
changing  the  water  ;  drain  when  tender,  and  cook  a  few  minutes  in 
a  frying  pan  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Rice  may  be  boiled  separately  and  fried  in  the  pan  with  the 
lentils  and  a  browned  sliced  onion. 

WILTED  LETTUCE. 

Put'  several  slices  of  bacon  in  a  hot  skillet,  fry  2  minutes, 
add  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  put  the  washed 
and  dried  lettuce  leaves  into  this,  and  stir  till  wilted.  An  egg  and 
either  sweet  or  sour  cream  may  be  added  to  this  sauce  before 
putting  in  the  lettuce,  if  desired.  Dandelions  and  endive  may  be 
wilted  in  the  same  way. 

MACARONI. 

Boil  8  quarts  water  in  a  saucepan  with  ^  tablespoon  salt.  Drop 
in  ^  pound  macaroni,  and  boil  30  minutes,  or  until  white  and  tender. 
Do   not   cook  too  long  or   it   will   become  pasty;   and   do   not  stir. 


VEGETABLES.  1]5 

Turn  into  a  colander  and  drain.  Put  back  into  tlie  saucepan,  add 
1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  heat  tlirough. 
Serve  in  a  hot  covered  dish.  A  couple  of  tablespoons  of  grated 
cheese,  either  American,  Swiss  or  Parmesan,  or  mixed,  may  be 
stirred  through  before  serving,  or  a  good  cream  sauce  may  be 
prepared  and  the  drained  macaroni  put  in  this  to  heat  through. 
Here  again  the  grated  cheese  may  be  added.  Thick  stewed  toma- 
toes may  be  placed  in  the  dish  around  the  plain  macaroni,  or  a 
regular  tomato  sauce  around  or  mixed  through  the  more  elaborate 
dishes.  Polish  crumbs  sprinkled  on  top  are  a  good  addition.  Olive 
oil   may   always   be   used   in   place   of   butter. 

BAKED  MACAROXT. 

Mrs.  John    Sweeney. 

Boil  macaroni  as  directed.  Place  it  in  a  baking  disli  in  alter- 
nate layers  with  grated  or  crumbled  cheese,  bits  of  butter,  and  a 
little  pepper  and  salt.  Fill  to  the  top  of  the  macaroni  with  sweet 
milk;  place  in  the  oven  and  bake  about  45  minutes. 

MACARONI  AlILANAISE. 

Boil  l  package  macaroni  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain. 
Cook  1  can  tomatoes  20  minutes  with  1  bay  leaf,  1  slice  onion,  1 
blade  mace,  1  stalk  celery,  ."1  cloves  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  1  tal)lespoon  butter  and  mix  with  1  cup 
bread  crumbs  and  h  cup  grated  cheese.  Butter  a  baking  dish, 
put  in  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then  a  layer  of  tomato  sauce,  dot  with 
bits  of  butter,  add  a  layer  of  brea.d  crumbs  and  cheese,  and  repeat, 
finishing  with  the  bread  crumbs.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MACARONI   WITH   TOMATOES   AND   PEPPERS. 

Mrs.    Wm.   Call. 

Boil  h  pound  macaroni  in  salted  water  until  done,  put  into  a 
baking  dish,  add  1  can  tomatoes,  a  pinch  of  soda,  h  cup  milk  and  1 
large  .green  pepper  chopped  tine:  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dot  it  with  2  tablespoons  butter  in  small  bits,  and  bake  in  slow 
oven   J   hour. 

BAKED   MUSHROOMS. 

Place  large  firm  mushrooms  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  put 
a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
set  in  a  very  hot  oven  to  bake.  Serve  with  a  little  melted  butter 
on  hot  toast.  Or,  bake  on  thin  slices  of  bread.  Maitre  d'hotel 
sauce  is  served  with  this. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS. 

Place  large  mushrooms  on  a  broiling  iron,  set  over  the  fire, 
and  turn.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  take  up  on  a  heated  dish, 
spread  with  butter  and  squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Serve  on  thin  squares  of  hot  toast. 


116  OLD   COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

DEVILLED   AlUSHROOMS. 

Peel  a  quart  of  mushrooms,  break  iu  pieces,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  lemon  juice.  Mash  the  yolks  of  3  hardboiled  eggs; 
mix  with  the  raw  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  pint  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 
and  an  ounce  of  butter.  Fill  small  shells  with  the  mixture,  and 
cover  the  tops  with  grated  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Set 
in  the   oven   to   brown. 

FRICASSEE  OF  MUSHROOMS. 

Put  firm  peeled  mushrooms  into  boiling  water,  take  out  im- 
mediately, drop  into  ice  water,  drain  and  wipe  dry.  Lay  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  large  tablespoon  melted  butter,  set  over  the  fire 
and  turn.  Sprinkle  in  an  ounce  of  flour,  white  pepper,  salt  and 
a  little  minced  thyme  and  parsley.  Pour  in  a  pint  of  stock  and 
let  simmer  20  minutes.  Break  hot  biscuits  in  half,  lay  on  a  heated 
dish,  lay  the  mushrooms  carefully  on  them,  strain  the  gravy  adding 
to  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Pour  over  the  mushrooms,  and  serve  immediately. 

FRIED  MUSHROOMS. 

Roll  larg£  mushrooms  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg, 
and  again  in  cracker  crumbs ;  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
fry   in   boiling  hot  butter. 

STEWED  A4USHR00MS. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  butter  with  h  tablespoon  flour  in  a  hot  sauce- 
pan, add  1  pint  fresh  button  mushrooms  and  cook  L5  minutes ; 
add  J  cup  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  let  cook  up  and  serve 
hot. 

NOODLES  WITH   TOMATOES. 

Prepare  the  noodles  and  boil  them.  Drain,  put  in  a  frying 
pan  with  1  cup  tomato  sauce,  1  tablespoon  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well  with  a  fork  and  cook  5  minutes  ;  then 
add  1  tablespoon  each  of  grated  Swiss  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
stir  in  carefully,   pour  into  a  deep  hot  dish   and   serve. 

OKRA. 

Cut  the  stems  from  tender  young  okras,  wash,  and  boil  35 
minutes  in  a  saucepan  in  salted  water  with  a  little  milk  added, 
an  onion  and  2  cloves.  When  tender,  drain,  and  serve  with  a  hot 
cream  sauce.    Or  slice  and  stew  with  an  equal  quantity  of  tomatoes. 

BAKED  SPANISH  ONIONS. 

Peel  3  medium  Spanish  onions,  clip  off  the  ends  and  cut  in 
half  crosswise.  Put  in  a  baking  dish  cut  side  up.  Mix  together 
1  ounce  butter,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parslev,  1  saltspoon  each  salt 
and  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  ^  lemon.  Spread  over  the  onions. 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  set   in   the   oven   for  35  minutes, 


VEGETABLES.  117 

basting  frequently.  Bring  dish  to  the  oven  door,  take  off  the 
paper,  sprinkle  2  tablespoons  grated  bread  crumbs,  baste  well,  and 
put  back  in  the  oven  for  10  minutes  more. 

BOILED  ONIONS. 

Peel  and  wash  carefully  small  white  onions,  put  into  boiling 
salted  water,  and  boil  50  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Drain  and 
serve  in  a  hot  covered  dish  with  melted  butter  poured  over,  and 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper.  Or  prepare  a  good  cream  sauce ; 
when  the  onions  are  drained  put  them  in  the  hot  sauce  and  cook 
a  few  minutes  more.    Serve  with  the  sauce  poured  over  them. 

FRIED  ONIONS. 

Peel  and  slice  the  onions;  boil  in  salted  water  20  minutes; 
drain,  put  in  a  skillet  with  1  large  tablespoon  butter,  and  fry  i 
hour,  seasoning  to  the  taste. 

SMOTHERED  ONIONS. 

Slice  several  white  onions  very  fine,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  put  them  in  a  hot  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  melted  but- 
ter, cover  and  cook  on  the  range  o  minutes.  Then  set  in  the  oven 
for  35  minutes.     Pour  over  a  freshly  broiled  steak  on  a  hot  platter. 

STUFFED   ONIONS. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

Peel  Spanish  onions  under  water,  scoop  a  piece  out  of  the  top, 
parboil  5  minutes,  and  turn  upside  down  to  drain.  Stuff  witli 
chopped  onion,  bread  crumlis,  salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter. 
Put  in  a  baking  dish  with  a  little  water,  sprinkle  witli  buttere  I 
crumbs,  cover  and  bake  1  hour  or  till  tender.     Uncover  and  brown. 

PARSNIPS. 

Mrs.    Frank    Miller. 

Wash,  scrape  and  slice  the  parsnips  lengthwise.  Boil  in  slightly 
salted  water  till  tender ;  drain,  put  a  couple  tablespoons  butter  in 
a  skillet,  sprinkle  the  parsnips  with  sugar,  and  fry  till  a  nice  brown. 
Season   slightly   with   pepper. 

BAKED   PARSNIPS. 

Miss   Johanna   Feeney. 

If  young,  scrape  the  parsnips ;  if  old,  pare  and  slice  length- 
wise ;  put  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  till  tender.  Drain,  put  in  a 
baking  dish,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  .several  thin  slices  of 
bacon  over  the  top,  and  bake  about  ^  hour. 

PARSNIP  CAKES. 

Boil  and  mash  your  parsnips.  To  a  dozen  good  sized  parsnips, 
add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  enough  Hour 
to  hold  them  together.  Make  into  flat,  round  cakes,  and  fry  in 
butter  until  both  sides  are  a  rich  brown. 


118  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Peel  6  medium  parsnips,  cut  in  pieces  1^  inches  long,  cut  these 
in  strips,  wash,  put  in  boiling,  salted  water  with  a  little  lemon, 
cover  and  let  boil  slowly  45  minutes,  or  until  done.  Drain  and 
put  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  2  tablespoons  oil,  1 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  and  the  juice  of  J  a  lemon.  Let  stand 
in  this  J  hour.  Have  a  good  fritter  batter  prepared,  drop  in  the 
parsnips,   then  drop  them  into  boiling   fat  and  fry. 

Salsify  fritters  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

PEAS   (CANNED). 

Drain  the  liquor  from  canned  peas,  put  in  boiling,  salted  water 
and  boil  3  minutes,  drain  again,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little 
melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  while  cooking  about  2. 
minutes. 

GREEN   PEAS. 

Take  fresh  young  peas,  shell  just  before  using,  and  put  in 
kettle  of  boiling,  salted  water;  boil  20  minutes,  or  till  tender; 
drain,  turn  into  a  hot  covered  dish  with  a  lump  of  butter,  and 
serve. 

STEAMED   PEAS. 

Mrs.    Grover    Spencer. 

Put  peas  in  a  double  boiler  witli  a  piece  of  butter  tlie  size  of 
a  walnut  to  every  quart.  Let  steam  until  peas  are  tender.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  hot. 

PEPPERS. 

Take  green  peppers,  wipe  them,  cut  the  tops  off,  or  cut  in 
half  lengthwise,  take  the  seeds  out,  and  put  in  cold  salt  water 
for  J  hour.  Take  any  kind  of  cold  meat  minced  fine :  moisten 
well  with  rich  stock  or  gravy,  or  milk  or  tomatoes,  and  fill  the 
peppers.  Stand  on  end  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  put  bits  of 
butter  on  top,  cover  and  bake  about  i  hour.  Take  the  cover  off 
to  let  brown  when  nearly  done.  Cold  rice  is  good  alone,  mixed 
with  meat  or  with  cooked  tomatoes  as  a  pepper  stuffing :  or  toma- 
toes well  seasoned  and  mixed  with  toasted  bread  crumbs.  Stuft'ed 
tomatoes  may  alternate  in  a  dish  with  stuffed  peppers,  or  a  tomato 
sauce  may  he  served  with  them.  Red  peppers  are  a  good  addition 
to  a  dish  of  baked  tomatoes.  In  fact,  follow  your  taste  in  cooking 
peppers,  and  you   cannot  go  amiss. 

PEPPERS  AND  RICE. 

Steam  rice  until  tender  and  whole.  Slice  green  peppers  cross- 
wise, take  out  the  seeds,  and  throw  into  salted  water  for  an  hour. 
Dry  the  slices,  dip  them  in  flour  and  fry  in  a  little  hot  butter 
until  soft  and  somewhat  brown,  about  5  minutes.  Have  the  rice 
just  ready,  turn  it  into  a  baking  dish,  arranee  the  slices  of  peppers 
over  it,  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  butter  over.  Put  in  the  oven 
for  5  minutes.  The  fried  pepper  is  also  a  nice  garnish  for  meats 
cither  hot  or  cold. 


VEGETABLES.  119 

BAKKD   POTATOES. 

Select  sound  potatoes  with  good  skins,  wash  and  cut  the  ends 
off;  put  on  the  floor  of  the  oven  and  bake  45  minutes  to  1  hour 
until  they  will  squeeze.  Serve  at  once  on  a  plate  covered  with  a 
napkin. 

Or  peel,  place  in  a  dripping  pan  with  roasting  meat,  and  bake 
1  hour;  brown.     New  potatoes  need  only  to  be  scraped. 

BOILED  POTATOES. 

Select  solid  medium  sized  potatoes.  Wash  and  cut  off  the 
ends.  Put  in  a  pot  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  well,  add 
1  teaspoon  salt,  cover  and  boil  about  35  minutes,  or  until  tender. 
Take  up  in  a  skimmer,  arrange  on  a  napkin  on  a  hot  dish,  cover 
with  the  ends  of  the  napkin  and  serve.  Potatoes  either  baked 
or   boiled   in   their  jackets    should    not   be    put   in   a   covered    dish. 

Or  peel  and  boil  or  steam.     Serve  as  soon  as  done. 

BROWXED  MASKED  POTATOES. 

Boil,  mash  and  season  the  potatoes,  put  in  a  baking  dish, 
smooth  the  surface  with  a  little  beaten  egg,  and  put  in  the  oven 
to  brown. 

CHEESE   POTATOES. 

Mrs.     John     White. 

Boil  potatoes  in  salt  water  until  done ;  mash  them  thoroughly, 
add  a  little  milk  and  Ijutter,  and  •')  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  put 
in  a  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  liroad  crumbs  over,  and  bake  |  hour 
or  more. 

DUCHESS  POTATOES. 

Prepare  potatoes  as  for  croquettes.  Flour  the  board,  roll  out 
the  potato  paste,  cut  into  cookies,  place  in  a  buttered  pan,  brush 
them  with  melted  butter  and  bake  in  the  oven  10  minutes,  or  until 
browned.     Take  up  with  a  skimmer  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

EAST  INDIAN  POTATOES. 

Brown  1  finely  chopped  onion  in  a  saucepan  with  1  taljlespoon 
butter.  Stir  in  1  teaspoon  curry  powder,  and  add  1  pint  hot  water. 
Add  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  1  dozen  small  peeled  potatoes.  Cover 
and   boil   35   minutes. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES,  NO.  1. 

Miss  Delia  Slatzer. 

Pare  and  slice  thin  some  good  potatoes.  Put  in  a  baking  dish, 
scatter  lumps  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  all  through, 
fill  up  the  dish  with  sweet  milk,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  1 
hour. 


120  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Waldie. 

Put  1  quart  sliced,  boiled  potatoes  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  ; 
add  1  pint  sweet  cream,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES. 

Mrs.    Tlioinas    Ewiiig. 

Cut  and  fry  as  Straw  Potatoes,  making  the  slices  \  inch  or 
more    in    width    and    thickness. 

FRIED  POTATOES,   NO.   1. 

Take  potatoes  freshly  boiled  in  salted  water.  Drain,  cut  into 
thin  slices,  drop  in  boiling  fat,  and  fry  5  minutes.  Take  out  with 
a  skimmer,  drain,  lightly  dredge  with  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Or,  put  in  a  hot  frying  pan  with  melted  butter,  cook  about  10 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 

FRIED   POTATOES,   NO.  2. 

Mrs.    IMargaret   Bailey. 

Boil  potatoes  in  their  skins.  When  cold,  peel  and  cut  up 
small.  Put  in  a  skillet  with  butter  or  half  lard  and  butter,  and 
fry  brown.  Make  a  good  cream  gravy  as  for  chicken,  pour  over 
the  potatoes,  let  cook  up  well,   dish  and  serve  at  once. 

FRIED   POTATOES,   NO.  3. 

Miss   Johanna   Feeney. , 

Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes  thin,  throw  into  cold  water,  drain, 
and  put  into  a  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoon  hot  drippitig;  fry 
brown. 

GERMAN  POTATO  CAKES,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Elizabeth    Winefordner. 

Grate  6  large  raw  potatoes,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons flour,  J  teaspoon  soda  in  \  cup  sour  milk,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.     Fry  like  pancakes. 

GERMAN  POTATO  CAKES,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.   A.    E.    Spires. 

Grate  6  large  raw  potatoes  and  2  onions  in  a  bowl  together. 
Add  2  eggs  and  ^f  cup  flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  stii"  well 
toeether  and  bake  like  griddle  cakes  until  nicely  browned.  Serve 
hot. 

HASHED  BROWN  POTATOES. 

Take  freshly  boiled  potatoes,  peel  and  chop  fine.  Put  a  little 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  get  it  hot,  add  the  potatoes,  and  cook  for 
10    minutes,    tossing    occasionally,      .Season    with    salt    and    pepper, 


VEGETABLES.  121 

form  into  an  omelet,  and  cook  until  a  good  brown,  5  or  more 
minutes.  Turn  on  a  hot  dish.  A  little  chopped  and  browned  onion 
may  be  added. 

HASHED  CREAM  POTATOES. 

Boil  sound  potatoes,  peel  and  chop  tine.  Put  in  a  saucepan 
with  milk  or  cream,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stew  slowly 
at  least  15  minutes.  Turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  sprinkle  chopped 
parsley  over  them.  Cold  I)aked  potatoes  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 

HASHED  POTATOES  AU  GRATIN. 

Prepare  hashed  cream  potatoes.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  turn 
in  the  potatoes,  sprinkle  the  surface  with  grated  cheese,  and  bits 
of  butter,   and  bake   for   10   minutes,   or  until   nicely  browned. 

LYONNATSE  POTATOES. 

Slice  freshly  boiled  potatoes  in  not  very  thin  slices.  Melt  1 
tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  brown  a  finely  sliced  onion, 
add  the  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  toss  gently 
while  cooking  7  or  8  minutes.  Give  them  a  good  omelet  form, 
let  brown  lightly  for  about  7  minutes,  fold,  turn  on  a  hot  dish, 
and   sprinkle   with   chopped   parsley. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

Mrs.    Ellen    Campbell. 

Peel  and  wash  medium  sized  sound  potatoes,  cut  in  halves, 
plunge  into  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  about  35  minutes.  Drain 
well,  and  rub  through  a  sieve,  or  mash  with  a  potato  masher 
quickly,  add  salt  and  pepper,  considerable  butter  and  a  little  hot 
milk ;  put  in  a  deep  hot  dish,  smoothe  the  surface,  till  a  hole  in 
the  centre  with  melted  butter,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve   with  the   dish   covered. 

O'BRIEN  POTATOES. 

"Country     Club." 

Slice  and  parboil  the  potatoes.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish 
in  alternate  layers  with  sliced  pimentos  and  a  sprinkling  of  flour, 
salt  and  butter.  Pour  over  the  liquor  from  the  can,  and  enough 
cream  to  make  out.     Bake  till  done. 

POTATOES  WITH  BUTTER. 

Scrape  and  wash  new  potatoes  or  peel  small  old  ones.  Boil 
in  salted  water  30  minutes  or  until  done.  Drain,  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  1  tablespoon  butter,  turn  them  over  lightly  a  minute  or 
two,  and  serve  w-ith  the  butter  poured  over  them.  Brown  butter 
may  be  used  instead,  or  Polish  crumbs,  or  cream  sauce, 


122  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

POTATO  BALLS,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Lydia   Z.   Knight. 

Boil,  mash  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  7  or  8  good 
sized  potatoes ;  dice  '2  slices  bread  and  fry  brown  in  a  little  butter ; 
add  these  to  the  potatoes  with  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  enough 
flour  to  make  the  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of  a  small  cup.  Boil 
these  like  dumplings  in  a  good  beef  or  veal  broth,  turnmg  oc- 
casionally. If  left  over,  they  are  good  sliced  cold  and  fried  in 
butter. 

POTATO  BALLS,  NO.  2. 

Take  2  tablespoons  each  of  mashed  potatoes  and  grated  cheese, 
1  tablespoon  breadcrumbs,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne  to  taste,  and  half 
a  beaten  egg.  Mix  well ;  form  into  cakes  or  balls,  with  the  aid 
of  a  little  flour ;  dip  in  lieaten  egg  and  roll  in  toasted  bread 
crumbs.     Fry  in  deep  hot  fat,  or  in  a  skillet  with  butter. 

POTATO  CAKES. 

Season  cold  mashed  potatoes  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Pat 
into  flat  cakes,  if  necessary  using  a  little  flour  and  milk  to  make 
them  stick.    Fry  brown  on  both  sides  in  a  little  butter. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES,  NO.  I. 

Mrs.    Jas.   McGrady. 

Take  cold  mashed  potatoes,  1  onion  chopped  fine,  1  egg,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  and  another  of  baking 
powder.  Take  about  1  pint  potatoes,  beat  in  the  egg  and  the 
other  ingredients  with  flour  enough  to  make  them  stick,  roll  and 
fry  in  a  pan  with  a  little  hot  lard,  or  dip  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs  and   fry  in   deep   fat. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES,  NO.  2. 

Boil  and  mash  8  medium  potatoes.  Beat  up  with  ^  teaspoon 
salt,  half  as  much  pepper,  a  very  little  nutmeg,  2  raw  eggs,  and  i 
tablespoon  butter.  Form  into  croquettes,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and 
then  in  breadcrumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket,  and  fry  in  boiling 
fat  5  minutes.  Drain  thoroughly,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  on  a 
folded  napkin. 

Chopped  parsley  may  be  added  or  sprinkled  on  top. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.    Peter    Kramer. 

Wash,  peel  and  grate  6  good  sized  potatoes,  and  drain.  Add 
a  pinch  of  salt  to  1  cup  cooked  rice.  Brown  2  tablespoons  bread- 
crumbs in  a  skillet  with  2  tablespoons  butter,  and  stir  in  2  eggs 
till  cooked.  Mix  rice,  potatoes,  and  fried  crumbs  all  together 
with  enough  flour  to  hold  them,  make  into  balls,  and  drop  into 
boiling  water ;    cover  and  boil  gently  J  hour.     Serve  immediately, 


VEGETABLES.  123 

POTATO  PIE. 

A    Michigan    Recipe. 

Make  a  crust  as  for  meat  pies,  line  a  shallow  dish,  fill  with 
potatoes  freshly  cooked,  mashed  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
!)utter  and  cream.  Over  this  sprinkle  a  little  summer  savory  or 
sage.  Cover  with  crust,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  crust 
is  done.  Serve  with  fried  chicken  or  any  meat  that  has  a  brown 
gravy. 

POTATO  PUFF. 

Mrs.    Edward    Daugherty. 

Into  4  cups  mashed  potato  stir  3  large  tablespoons  niell::d 
butter,  beating  to'a  white  cream;  add  2  or  3  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
and  2  small  cups  cream  or  milk,  salted  to  taste;  beat  all  well, 
pour  in  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  until  nicely  browned. 

QUARTERED  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  cut  rather  small  potatoes  into  4  cubes  each.  Put  in 
a  hot  frying  pan  with  a  little  lard,  and  fry  for  about  10  minutes, 
until  a  light  brown,  turning  occasionally.  Take  up,  put  in  a  roast- 
ing tin,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter,  and 
place   in   a   quick  oven   for   30  minutes. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

Peel  medium  sized  raw  potatoes,  slice  as  thin  as  possible, 
drop  one  by  one  into  boiling  fat,  and  fry  about  five  minutes,  or 
until  a  good  color,  turning  them  over.  Take  out  with  a  skimmer 
and  let  thoroughly  drain  and  dry.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
them,  and  serve  on   a  hot  dish  with   a   folded  napkin. 

SNOW  POTATOES. 

Boil  new  potatoes  with  their  jackets  on  in  salted  water  until 
tender  (about  30  minutes).  Peel  quickly,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  rub  through  a  sieve  into  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  im- 
mediately.    Do  not  touch  them  after  putting  through  the  sieve, 

STRAW  POTATOES. 

Select  good  medium  potatoes,  peel,  cut  in  long,  very  thin 
strips,  wash  and  drain,  dry  on  a  cloth,  plunge  into  boiling  fat  and 
fry  about  5  minutes  until  a  good  brown  color.  Drain  in  the  frying 
basket,  sprinkle  a  pinch  of  salt  over  them  and  serve  at  once  on 
a  hot  dish. 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Miss  Johanna   Feeney. 

Bake  good  potatoes  in  their  skins ;  when  done,  scoop  out, 
mix  with  pepper,  salt  and  plenty  of  butter,  fill  the  skins,  and  set 
on  end  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Smooth  the  tops  of  the 
potatoes  with  beaten  egg. 


124  OLD    COUNTRY    RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

RICE,  NO.  1. 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  cup  of  rice.  Put  in  double  boiler  and 
fill  with  cold  salted  water.  Boil  about  ^  hour,  or  until  dry.  Do 
not  stir.  It  should  turn  out  with  the  kernels  separate  and  whole. 
If  not  boiled  dry  when  done,  turn  into  a  colander  and  stand  on  a 
pan  in  the  oven  with  the  door  open  for  5  minutes.  Then  serve 
immediately.  It  makes  a  good  dressing  on  a  platter,  with  roast 
meat  in  the  centre,  or  a   roast  or  stewed  chicken. 

RICE,  NO.  2. 

Put  well  washed  rice  in  a  double  boiler,  cover  with  milk  and 
boil  two  hours.  When  done  dress  with  cream,  butter  and  a  little 
salt.  When  served,  powdered  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg  may  be 
dusted  over  the  top.  Beaten  egg  and  sugar  may  be  added,  if  de- 
sired, before  taking  up. 

RICE  CAKES. 

Mrs.   D.    H.   Jones. 

Take  1  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  mix  it  with  1  well  beaten  egg, 
J  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  a  little  flour,  season  with  salt  and 
sugar,  and  fry  like  potato  cakes  in  a  skillet  with  a  little  hot  butter. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.     Margaret     Murday. 

Steam  1  cup  rice  in  a  double  boiler.  When  done,  drain  and 
add  J  teaspoon  salt,  J  cup  sugar,  3  eggs  well  beaten  together,  and 
steam  3  minutes  longer;  then  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon.  When  perfectly  cold,  take  2  heaping  tablespoons  for  each 
croquette,  and  shape  like  buns,  making  a  dent  with  the  finger  m 
the  top  centre  of  each.  Dip  in  raw  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs, 
drop  in  smoking  hot  lard  or  fat,  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Drain  on 
paper.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  put  a  small  lump  of  jelly 
in  each  dent,  and  serve  hot. 

2  ounces  currants  may  be  cooked  with  the  rice  the  last  15 
minutes,  and  a  sweet   fruit   sauce  poured  over   the  croquettes. 

RISOTTO. 

Filippini.. 

Brown  1  medium  finely  chopped  onion  in  a  saucepan  with  ^ 
tablespoon  butter ;  add  i  pound  washed  rice ;  stir  until  a  golden 
color,  then  gradually  moisten  with  1^  pints  hot  broth,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  1  small  cervelat  sausage,  a  pinch  of  Spanish 
saffron,  1  teaspoon  salt,  half  as  much  pepper.  I\Iix  well,  cover, 
and,  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  put  in  a  hot  oven  for  30  minutes. 
Take  it  out,  remove  the  sausage,  stir  in  well  3  tablespoons  grated 
cheese,  and  J  tablespoon  butter.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  garnished  with 
the  sausage  sliced. 


VEGETABLES.  125 

CRKA^fED  SALSIFY. 

Scrape  a  larjrc  Inincli  frcsli  salsify,  cut  off  stems,  and  throw 
into  cold  water  with  a  little  flour  and  vinegar  mixed  through  it. 
Wash  thoroughly,  drain  and  put  in  hoiling  water  with  1  tablespoon 
salt,  and  a  sliced  lemon,  and  boil  40  minutes  or  until  tender.  Drain 
and  cut  into  half  inch  pieces.  Have  a  cream  sauce  ready,  put  in 
the  salsify  with  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  boil  5  minutes.  Serve  with 
chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  it. 

SAUERKRAUT. 

Mrs.   Wm.   Hughes. 

Take  good  sound  cabbage  early  in  the  fall,  and  slice  on  the 
cutter  not  quite  so  thin  as  for  slaw.  Pack  in  a  large  jar,  or  keg, 
sprinkling  the  layers  with  salt.  Do  not  use  too  much.  Press 
these  layers  down  with  a  potato  masher  but  without  crushing. 
Cover  with  water,  lay  a  clean  white  cloth  over,  and  put  a  heavy 
oak  board,  or  bricks  over  it.  Let  the  brine  come  up  over  the 
board.  After  several  days,  remove  to  the  cellar.  Examine  daily 
at  first,  and  keep  replenishing  the  brine.  If  the  l)rine  gets  slimy, 
skim  it  well,  wash  the  cloth  and  board  clean,  and  put  back.  After 
10  days,  it  may  be  good  to  eat  if  the  weather  is  warm;  in  cool 
weather,  it  takes  longer.     It  will  keep  all  winter,  if  paid  attention. 

BOILED  SAUERKRAUT. 

Put  into  a  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  a  piece  of 
salt  pork ;  boil  'W  or  more  minutes. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Mrs.    Ellen    B.    Lynch. 

Take  a  piece  of  suet  the  size  of  half  a  hand,  boil  it  in  a  little 
water  until  thoroughly  done.  When  browning  add  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg  and  3  to  6  onions  sliced  ;  fry  slowly  until  quite  brown, 
without  burning..  Then  add  1  pound  juicy  round  of  beef,  chopped 
fine;  1  can  tomatoes;  allspice,  cloves  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 
When  well  cooked  strain  thoroughly,  and  keep  the  sauce  hot.  In 
the  meantime  put  half  a  box  of  macaroni  into  salted  boiling  water, 
and  boil  20  minutes  oc  until  done  and  not  soggy.  Rinse  off  starch 
and  salt.  Put  back  in  the  stewpan  with  a  little  butter.  Serve  on  a 
heated  platter  with  a  well  of  sauce  in  the  centre.  The  part  of 
the  sauce  that  did  not  go  through  the  colander  makes  an  excellent 
hash  mixed  with  cold  rice  and  baked.  Mushrooms  may  be  added 
to  the  sauce,  if  desired. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Mrs.   Isabel   Hall  Tedrow. 

Boil  the  spaghetti  until  tender  in  salted  water  ;  drain  and  put 
into  a  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  stewed  and  seasoned 
mushrooms.  Sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  on  top,  and  bits  of  butter, 
and  bake  ni  a  slow  oven  20  or  30  minutes.  The  mushroom  dress- 
ing must  be  generous  enough  to  take  care  of  the   spaghetti   also. 


126  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

SPINACH. 

Cut  off  the  roots,  dried  leaves,  etc.  Wash  in  several  waters, 
put  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  hoiling  salted  water,  and  boil  20  to 
30  minutes  ;  drain,  chop,  add  a  little  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve  in  a  covered  dish  with  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs  on  top. 
Or  the  spinach  may  be  put  in  the  kettle  with  only  a  cup  of  water, 
and  steamed  till   done. 

SPINACH    CROQUETTES. 

Miss    Beall    Ewing. 

Chop  fine  1  pint  cooked  spinach,  brown  J-  a  small  onion  in  1 
tal)lespoon  butter,  take  out  the  pieces  and  stir  in  the  spinach  :  add 
gradually  1  scant  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  bread  crumbs,  ^ 
cup  grated  cheese,  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  \  or  more  cup  milk, 
salt  and  nutmeg.  Mould  while  warm  on  a  floured  board.  Fry  like 
other  croquettes.  Drain,  dish,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  add 
a  little  melted  butter,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  heat  through. 

SPINACH  FRITTERS. 

An    Italian    Recipe. 

Wash  thoroughly  clean  J  peck  spinach,  and  cook  done.  Drain 
in  a  colander  and  chop  fine.  Put  back  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  \  teaspoon  salt, 
some  cayenne  pepper,  and  grated  lemon  peel.  Let  simmer  for  10 
minutes.  Take  it  off  the  nre  and  when  cool  stir  in  2  well  beaten 
eggs  and  a  tablespoon  flour.  Form  into  little  balls,  dip  in  egg  and 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  fat. 

SPINACH   WITH   CREAM. 

Cook  the  spinach  in  boiling  salted  water  until  done ;  drain  and 
squeeze,  and  chop  line.  Rub  1  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  hot 
saucepan  with  2  tablespoons  flour ;  add  \  cup  half  milk  and  half 
cream,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper ;  stir  well,  add  the 
spinach,  cook  for  five  minutes,  and  stive  in  a  hot  covered  dish. 
Sprinkle   the   top   thickly   with   grated   hard  boiled  egg. 

BAKED  SQUASH. 

Cut   into   convenient   sizes,   scrape   out  the   seeds   and   the   soft 
part,  bake  about  |  hour  in  the  oven,  and  serve  in  its  shells. 
Pumpkin  may  be  baked  the  same  way. 

BOILED    SQUASH. 

Pare  and  cut  into  small  cubes  ;  cover  with  boiling  salted  water, 
and  boil  till  tender;  drain,  return  to  the  saucepan  and  set  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  till  dry.  Then  mash  with  a  potato  masher,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES.  127 

SUCCOTASH. 

Boil  separately  corn  on  the  col)  and  either  string  beans  or  Lima 
beans.  Cut  the  corn  from  the  coli  and  put  in  a  hot  saucepan 
with  the  beans,  add  plenty  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
together  about  five  minutes.  Rich  milk  may  be  added,  and  where 
liked  a  little  flour  rubbed  in  butter  for  thickening;  cook  5  min- 
utes longer.  When  served  without  milk  sauce,  boil  a  little  milk 
with  the  corn  on  the  cob.  Make  the  proportion  of  corn  and  bean.s 
according  to  taste. 

SWEET   POTATOES. 

Sweet  potatoes  are  boiled  or  baked  precisely  like  Irish  po- 
tatoes. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Miss    Lizzie    Sherman. 

Peel  and  parboil  the  potatoes.  Slice  crosswise,  and  put  in  a 
buttered  baking  disli  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  with  sugar  and 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter.  Cover  with  a  half 
cup  of  cream  and  bake.  It  is  quite  as  good  with  plenty  of  butter 
without  the  cream. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Boil,  peel  and  slice  the  potatoes  lengthwise  ;  fry  in  hot  dripping 
in  a  skillet ;  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  hot  when  browned. 

Or  cut  fine  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  with  rather  more  white 
potatoes,  and  fry  in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 

GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Boil  and  peel  the  potatoes,  put  in  a  greased  pan  in  a  good  oven. 
As  they  crust  over  baste  several  times  with  a  little  butter.  When 
a  rich  golden  or  brown  color,  dish  and  serve. 

MASHED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Boil  ^  dozen  medium  sweet  potatoes  in  salted  water  40  min- 
utes. Drain,  peel  and  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  baking  dish. 
Season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  I  tablespoon  butter,  and  f 
cup  hot  milk.  Beat  well,  smoothe  the  top,  glaze  with  melted  butter, 
and  set  in  the  oven   for  about   15  minutes,  or  untif  brown. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQL^ETTES. 

Pare  and  boil  the  sweet  potatoes  till-  done.  Mash  fine,  season 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  sugar,  and  when  cool 
enough  to  handle  mould  into  croquettes,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  brown 
in  hot  butter. 

BAKED  TO:\L-\TOES. 

Mrs.    King. 

Wipe  the  tomatoes,  take  out  the  seeds,  fill  the  cavities  with  a 
dressing  of  onions  chopped  fine,  bread  crumbs,  salt,  butter  and 
pepper.     Bake  45   minutes  in  a  good  oven.     Serve  hot. 


128  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

BROILED   TOMATOES. 

Cut  sound  tomatoes  in  halves,  season,  place  on  a  broiler,  and 
broil  the  skin  side  about  20  minutes  or  till  tender.  Serve  on  a  hot 
plate  with   melted  butter. 

CURRTED  TOMATOES. 

Mix  I  teaspoon  curry  powder  with  1  quart  canned  tomatoes ; 
salt  to  taste ;  put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  1  cup  raw  rice 
in  alternate  layers,  ending  up  with  tomatoes  ;  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  \  hour  or  longer. 

^  ERIED  TOMATOES. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Evans. 

Slice  ripe  tomatoes  and  dip  them  in  well  beaten  eggs  which 
have  been  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  1  teaspoon  sugar  to 
each  egg.  Dip  then  in  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
a  skillet  with  2  tablespoons  hot  butter,  five  minutes  on  each  side. 
Serve  on  thin  slices  of  toast. 

Half  ripe  or  juicy  green  tomatoes  may  be  fried  in  the  same  way. 

The  sugar  or  toast  may  be  omitted. 

STEWED  TOMATOES,  NO.  1.  . 

Mrs.    John    A.    Williams. 

Put  1  quart  tomatoes  to  stew  with  1  good  sized  onion  chopped 
fine ;  when  nearly  done  add  a  good  lump  of  butter,  salt,  pepper 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Break  some  butter  crackers  in  the  bottom  of  a 
hot   dish   and  pour  the   tomatoes   over  them. 

STEWED  TOMATOES,  NO.  2. 

Rev.    Henry    Ward    Beecher. 

Parboil  3  small  onions;  cut  up  3  pints  ripe  tomatoes;  add  the 
onions  cut  fine,  \\  cups  1)read  crumbs,  a  dessertspoon  salt,  and  a 
small  teaspoon  black  pepper ;  stir  together  and  simmer  at  least 
an  hour.  Just  before  serving  stir  in  6  eggs  beaten  separately  and 
four  tablespoons  butter,  and  boil  up  once  to  cook  the  eggs. 

STEWED  TOMATOES  WITH  CREAM. 

"West  Virginia." 

Peel  and  slice  six  or  eight  large  ripe  tomatoes,  put  in  a  hot 
saucepan  with  butter  size  of  a  large  walnut,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  table- 
spoon sugar,  and  a  dash  di  pepper.  Simmer  gently  until  dinner  is 
ready  to  serve;  then  add  1  pint  fine  bread  crumbs,  stir  up  well, 
add  \  pint   rich   cream,   and   serve  immediately. 

STUEEED  TOMATOES,  NO.  1. 

Take  round  smooth  red  tomatoes.  Cut  a  slice  off  the  tops. 
Scoop  out  the  inside  without  cutting  through,  put  it  in  a  bowl,  mix 
it  with  a  little  chopped  meat,  bread  crumljs,  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
chopped   onions,    chopped    peppers,   cold    boiled    rice,    etc.     Almost 


VEGETABLES.  129 

anj-  "left-over"  can  be  used  in  stuffing  tomatoes.  Season  the 
shells  inside,  stuff  them,  put  on  the  covers,  put  in  a  buttered  dish, 
put  bits  of  butter  on  top,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  minutes 
or    longer. 

STUFFED  T0:M.\T0ES,  XO.  2. 

An    old    French    Cook   Book. 

Take  large  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  in  half  crosswise,  and  remove 
tiie  centres  carefully.  Fill  each  half  with  a  mixture  of  chopped 
cold  meat  of  any  kind  but  pork,  bread  crumbs,  chopped  parsley, 
one  or  two  yolks  of  eggs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
When  all  filled,  glaze  \vith  the  whites  of  the  eggs;  have  some  hot 
fat  in  a  frying  pan ;  place  the  tomatoes  meat  side  down ;  when 
l-rown,   turn   and  cook  them    15   minuted 

TOMATO  RICE  AU  GRATIN. 

Put  six  ounces  raw  rice  in  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  tomato 
sauce  (or  cold  stewed  tomatoes),  i  pint  broth,  J  teaspoon  salt, 
and  3  saltspoons  pepper.  Mix  well  aiid  boil  35  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Add  2  ounces  grated  cheese  with  I  ounce  butter, 
stir  in  well  and  put  in  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  and 
bits  of  i)Utter  on  top  and  sc:  in  oven  for  12  minutes.  It  may  also 
be    used   as    stuffing    for    whole    tomatoes    baked. 

TURKISH    PILAFF. 
Miss  McMath.     ^ 

Cover  1  cup  rice  with  salted  water  and  parboil  20  minutes ; 
drain,  and  put  into  a  double  boiler  with  U  cups  broth,  and  one  cup 
of  canned  tomatoes  rubbed  through  a  sieve ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  cook  one  hour.  Just  before  serving,  add  J  cup 
butter. 

TURNIPS. 

Cook  in  any  way  as  Kohl  Rabi  is  cooked. 
BOILED   TURNIPS. 

Mrs.    Frank    Miller. 

Slice  the  turnips,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  tender. 
Drain  and  stir  up  in  the  kettle  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.     If   soft  enough  they  will   mash  properly  by  simply   stirring. 

VERMICELLI. 

A    Mexican    Recipe. 

Put  a  tablespoon  lard  in  a  porcelain  vessel  ;  when  hot  throw- 
in  the  vermicelli  slightly  i^roken  up,  with  some  thinly  sliced  onions 
and  tomatoes,  some  chopped  red  peppers,  1  clove  garlic  and  a 
few  cumin  seeds  ground,  salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  to 
prevent  burning  till  a  light  brown  :  then  add  stock  or  hot  water, 
and  borl  until  tender.     Have  somewhat  drv. 


SALAD5. 


BEAN    SALAD. 

Boil  soup  beans  till  done  but  whole ;  strain  ;  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  vinegar,  oil,  1  tablespoon  cream  and  1  tablespoon  French 
mustard. 

BEET  SALAD. 

Boil  and  peel  the  beets,  slice  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  cover  with  vinegar  when  cold.     Or, 

Cut  the  freshly  boiled  beets  into  squares,  add  an  equal  number 
of  button  onions,  sliced  and  twice  scalded ;  mix  with  a  little 
chopped   parsley,   and   serve   with   French   dressing,   or   mayonnaise. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  SALAD. 

Cook  the  sprouts  and  let  drain  until  cold.  Cover  with  any  good 
salad  dressinuf. 

Asparagus  salad  is  made  in  a  similar  way,  but  serve  the  dressing 
in   a  sauceboat. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 

Boil  the  cauliflower,  break  into  its  florets,  put  in  a  salad  bowl, 
and  pour  mayonnaise  over  it.  Garnish  with  lettuce  leaves  and 
slices   of    egg.     Or, 

Boil  until  just  cooked,  chop  fine  with  hard  boiled  eggs  and 
parsley.  Garnish  with  beets  cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  with  olives. 
Pour  French   dressing  over  it. 

CELERY  SALAD. 

Chop  rather  coarsely  crisp  and  cleaned  celery ;  chop  an  equal 
quantity  of  green  peppers  (less  if  sharp),  mix  well  together,  and 
serve  with  lettuce  or  as  stuffing  for  tomatoes.  Dress  with  any 
dressing  liked.  Celery  chopped  and  mixed  with  a  good  dressing 
is  nice  served  in  half  peppers,  where  much  pepper  is  not  liked. 
About  as   much   chopped   apple  makes   a  good   addition. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Judson. 

Boil  a  chicken  tilltender  ;  remove  the  bones  and  skin;  if  wanted 
extra  nice  use  only  the  white  meat ;  cut  in  coarse  dice,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  chop  in  I  inch  pieces  the  tender  parts  of 
celery :  mix  g   as  much  celery  with  the  chicken  ;   mix  with  mayon- 

180 


SALADS.  131 

naise  dressing,  arrange  nicely  on  a  dish,  put  some  dressing  over 
it;  garnish  with  celery  tops.  Do  not  mix  till  wanted.  The 
dressing  may   be   thinned   with   whipped   cream. 

A   small   proportion   of   pecan   nuts   is   liked   by   many. 

COLD  SLAW,  NO.  L 

Miss  Rose  Tipping. 

Slice  fine  enough  cabbage  to  till  an  ordinary  salad  bowl  :  mix  2 
tablespoons  sugar  with  butter  the  size  of  ^  an  egg,  2  tablespoons  flour 
and  ]  cup  weak  vinegar ;  l)ring  to  the  boil,  cook  a  moment,  then 
take  off,  stir  in  2  well  beaten  eggs,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Salt  the  cabbage  also.  Pour  the  dressing  over  the  slaw  1  hour 
before  serving,  cover  and  let  stand  till  wanted. 

COLD  SLAW,  NO.  2. 

1  pint  chopped  cabbage,  1  cup  celery  chopped,  and  h  cup  grated 
horseradish.  Season  with  salt.  Stir  a  good  mayonnaise  or  lettuce 
dressing  into  the  mixture  a  few  moments  before  serving. 

COLD  SLAW,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.    Donna    O'Reilly. 

Chop  1  small  head  cabbage  fine ;  sprinkle  with  1  teaspoon  salt, 
I  tablespoon  sugar  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper ;  mash  until  moist. 
Then  put  ]  cup  vinegar  with  \  cup  water  and  a  bit  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  thicken  with  1  teaspoon  corn- 
starch, let  boil  up,  stir  it  into  the  cabbage,  and  set  the  slaw  on  the 
ice  to  get  cold. 

CREAM  SLAW. 

Mrs.  Alta  Hoskins. 

Cut  cabbage  very  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  up  1 
egg  thoroughly  with  1  tablespoon  flour,  add  1  tablespoon  butter, 
1  cup  sugar,  1  small  cup  vinegar  and  1  pint  cream.  Boil  all  to- 
gether, then   pour  over  the  slaw. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Pare  and  slice  the  cucumbers,  and  cover  with  brine  for  h  hour; 
drain,  put  in  a  dish  with  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar.  If  onions  are 
served  with  them,  they  may  be  peeled  and  sliced  and  added  raw, 
or  scalded  ivith  boiling  water,  standing  in  it  5  minutes,  then  drained 
and  put  with  the  cucumbers.  Slices  of  red  pepper  are  a  good 
addition.     Let  get  quite  cold. 

EGG  SALAD. 

Mrs.    Mark    Stecker. 

Boil  C)  eggs  hard ;  chop  the  whites  fine  and  rub  the  yolks 
smooth.  Sprinkle  in  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  this  into  mayon- 
naise dressing  and  mix  up  with  it  a  cup  of  chopped  chicken  or  ham 
and  some  chopped  celery.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


132  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

FRUIT  SALAD,  NO.  1. 

Pulp  of  4  oranges  and  1  grape  fruit,  1  cup  white  grapes  seeded, 
i  dozen  Maraschino  cherries  cut  in  halves,  i  cup  EngHsh  wahiuts 
broken  small.  Mix  with  this  a  wine  glass  sherry  or  Madeira. 
Cover  with  a  French  dressing  made  of  5  tablespoons  oil,  half  as 
much  vinegar,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  salt  spoon  paprika.  Set  on 
ice    until    thoroughly   chilled. 

FRUIT  SALAD,  NO.  2. 

Miss    Mary    Sweeney. 

Slice  fine  3  bananas,  2  oranges,  dice  2  apples,  and  seed  and  cut 
in  halves  1  bunch  white  grapes.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing, 
snd  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Put  leaves  of  head  lettuce  in  a  salad  bowl ;  peel  the  grape 
fruit,  take  out  the  sections,  break  the  membrane  and  extract  the 
pulp  in  as  large  pieces  as  possible;  put  in  the  midst  of  the  lettuce, 
and   cover   with   mayonnaise   or   French   dressing. 

Orange  salad  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

HERRING  SALAD. 

Skin,  bone  and  dice  fine  2  smoked  herrings ;  boil,  peel  and 
dice  2  potatoes;  peel,  core  and  dice  2  apples;  dice  a  little  pickled 
red  beet,  and  2  cold  hard  boiled  eggs.  Mix  well  with  4  table- 
spoons Filippini  dressing. 

LAMB  SALAD. 

Cut  cold  lamb  into  very  thin  slices.  Mix  in  a  bowl  1  finely 
sliced  small  onion,  2  stalks  finely  sliced  celery,  ^  teaspoon  chopped 
tarragon,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  3  saltspoons  pepper,  2  tablespoons  oil  and 
1^  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar.  Mix  up  well  with  the  sliced  lamb 
and   serve. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Arrange  delicate  leaves  of  lettuce  on  individual  plates,  put 
a  small  mould  of  currant  jelly  in  the  middle,  arrange  around  it 
small  balls  of  cream   cheese,   and  pour  French  dressing  over. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Cut  the  lobster  meat  whether  freshly  boiled  or  canned  into 
pieces  ^  inch  square.  Take  ^  the  quantity  of  celery  washed  and 
well  dried  and  chopped  the  same  size.  Alix  with  Filippini  dress- 
ing. Put  in  a  salad  bowl,  smooth  with  a  rounded  top,  spread 
with  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  decorate  with  hard  boiled  eggs  in 
quarters,  sprinkle  with  a  teaspoon  capers,  put  tender  lettuce  leaves 
around  the  edge  of  the  bowl,  and,  if  a  fresh  lobster,  ornament 
'-vith   head   or    claws. 


SALADS.  133 

MACEDOINE  SALAD. 

Take  a  potato  scoop  and  scoop  out  what  you  can  from  several 
scraped  carrots  and  peeled  turnips.  Boil  until  tender  in  salted 
water.  Drain  and  let  cool.  Mix  carefully  in  any  proportion  con- 
venient with  odds  and  ends  of  cooked  green  vegetables,  peas 
and  beans,  asparagus  and  cauliflower.  Season  with  French  dressing 
or  Filippini   dressing,   or  plain  vinegar,   salt  and  pepper. 

ORANGE  AND  APPLE  SALAD. 

Peel  and  slice  carefully,  removing  the  seeds,  3  each  ripe  apples 
and  oranges.  Mix  well  with  2  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon each  of  rum,  kirsch  and  maraschino,  and  keep  cold  until 
wanted.  Mix  again  before  serving.  Home  made  wine  or  lemon 
juice  may  be  used  instead  of  the  flavorings  named. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

Mrs.  Mabel  Rush. 

Take  1  cup  chopped  oysters,  1  cup  English  walnuts,  |  cup 
cabbage  chopped,  I  teaspoon  celery  seed,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Make  a  dressing  of  1  egg,  i  cup  sour  cream,  2  tablespoons 
vinegar,  and  2  tablespoons  flour.  Heat  through  and  pour  over  the 
salad.     Garnish  with  slices  of  hard  lioiled  eggs. 

PEA  SALAD. 

Mrs.  James  Costello. 

Mix  1  can  peas.  3  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  J  pint 
chopped  celery,  1  cup  English  walnuts,  and  sufficient  mayonnaise 
dressing  to  cover  nicely.     Serve  at  once. 

PEPPER  SALAD,  NO.  1. 

Cut  a  green  or  a  red  pepper  in  half,  remove  the  seeds,  and 
chop  or  slice  very  thin.  Put  in  a  bowl  with  fresh  lettuce  leaves, 
endive,  corn  salad,  pcppcrgrass,  mustard,  dandelions  or  watercress. 
Mix   with   any   good   dressing. 

PEPPER  SALAD,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  John   E.    Brown. 

Cover  1  box  gelatin  with  cold  water  and  let  soak  \  hour ; 
add  1  cup  sugar,  the  juice  1  lemon,  2  teaspoons  salt,  and'  1  pint 
boiling  water;  when  cool,  add  4  cups  chopped  celery,  2  chopped 
cabbage,  J  can  pimentoes  chopped,  and,  if  you  choose,  1  cup  chopped 
almonds ;  stir  in  well,  pour  into  a  mould,  and  set  aside  to  harden. 
Turn  out  on  a  plate  of  lettuce  leaves. 


134  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

POTATO  SALAD,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    George   Webb. 

5  small  potatoes  boiled  and  3  onions  of  same  size  cut  in 
thin  slices,  1  bunch  of  celery  chopped,  1  pint  of  sweet  pickles 
chopped  or  sliced,  3  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced,  1  pint  hickory  nuts 
or  any  good  nuts,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  with  any  salad 
dressing  liked. 

POTATO  SALAD,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Reese    Ward. 

Take  cold  potatoes  freshly  boiled  in  their  jackets,  peel  and 
slice  them  thin.  Cut  -4-  pound  fat  bacon  into  the  smallest  pos- 
sible dice,  put  into  a  skillet  over  a  slow  fire;  when  the  bacon 
is  crisp  and  a  light  brown  color,  add  1  shredded  onion,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  cup  vinegar  and  hot  water  (half  and  half),  and  2  table- 
spoons salad  oil,  turning  in  slowly  lest  it  spatter.  Add  the  po- 
tatoes,  heat  thoroughly  and  serve   hot  or  cold. 

As  much  cabbage  as  potatoes  may  be  added,  in  which  case 
boil  them  together  till   done. 

POTATO  SALAD,  NO.  3. 

Miss  H.  C.  Moodie. 

Slice  six  cold  boiled  potatoes  alternately  with  one  medium  sized 
onion  into  a  large  dish,  sprinkling  occasionally  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Put  ^  pint  vinegar  over  the  fire.  When  it  boils,  add  A 
cup  of  butter,  take  from  the  fire  and  add  4  tablespoons  sweet 
cream.     Pour  over   tlic  potatoes   and  mix   thoroughly. 

POTATO  SALAD,  NO.  4. 

Mrs.    O.    O.    Cherrington. 

Mix  1  tablespoon  flour  with  4  tablespoons  sugar  and  1  well 
beaten  egg;  add  1|  teaspoons  salt,  pepper  to  taste,  and  4  table- 
spoons water ;  scald  1  cup  vinegar,  and  stir  in  slowly  the  other  in- 
gredients. Peel  and  chop  fine  6  boiled  potatoes  and  3  hard  boiled 
eggs,  and  mix  with  the   dressing. 

POTATO  SALAD,  NO.  5. 

Mrs.    E.   J.    Davis. 

For  each  quart  of  cold  baked  or  boiled  potatoes  sliced,  allow 
1  sliced  cucumber,  1  cup  diced  celery,  and  1  measure  of  dressing. 
In  mixing,  do  not  stir,  but  lift  carefully  and  turn  over. 

POTATO  SALAD,  NO.  6. 

Mrs.    J.    R.    Coughtrie.^ 

6  potatoes  boiled  in  their  skins,  pared  and  sliced;  1  onion 
peeled  and  sliced  thin,  1  saltspoon  salt ;  \  as  much  pepper ;  1  table- 
spoon vinegar,  and  3  tablespoons  melted  butter.     Mix  all  together. 


SALADS.  135 

POTATOES  AND  BEETS. 

Boil  separately,  peel  and  slice  thin  equal  quantities  of  fresh 
beets   and  potatoes.     Season,  and  mix  with  any  dressing   desired. 

SALMON  SALAD,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.     :Mark     Stacker. 

Pick  and  chop  1  can  of  salinon,  chop  1  small  onion  and  1 
bunch  celery  fine,  add  ]  pound  Knglish  walnuts.  Mix  all  together 
with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  serve  on  lettuce. 

SALMON  SALAD.  NO.  2. 

Take  a  pint  of  cold  boiled  chopped  potatoes,  and  a  pint  of 
cabbage,  cucumber  pickles  and  canned  salmon,  chopped  and  mixed 
in  equal  quantities.  Mix  a  mayonnaise  dressing  with  hard  boiled 
egg,  and  twice  as  much  vinegar  as  oil;    stir  all  well  together. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

Put  1  pint  can  shrimps  or  1  pint  cooked  fresh  sin-imps  in  a  bowl. 
Season  with  3  tablespoons  Filippini  dressing.  Garnish  a  salad  bowl 
with  lettuce  leaves,  heap  the  shrimps  in  the  centre,  spread  a 
mayonnaise  over  them,  sprinkle  1  teaspoon  capers  over  all,  and 
arrange  2  quartered  hard  boiled  eggs  about  the  base. 

Shrimps  are  very  good  cut  in  several  pieces,  mixed  with 
chopped  celery,  and  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  with  a  few  capers 
added,  or  a   few  small  chopped   cucumber  pickles. 

SOUTH  AMERICAN  SALAD. 

Slice  thin  1  large  well  flavored  pear,  1  apple,  1  green  pepper 
and  1  cucumber.  Add  the  kernels  of  2  dozen  English  walnuts. 
Mix  well  with  any  good  salad  dressing. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD. 

Mrs.     C.     A.    Judson. 

Take  tender  young  beans,  string  and  break  them  into  short 
pieces,  and  boil  in  salted  water  till  done.  Slice  a  small  onion 
lengthwise,  and  mix  with  the  beans  when  cold.  Make  a  dressing 
with  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  good  sized  piece  of  butter,  3  tablespoons 
sour  cream,  and  vinegar  to  make  it  as  thin  as  wanted.  Mix  w-ell 
just  before  serving.  Chop  a  hard  boiled  egg  fine  for  a  garnish. 
Or  sprinkle  with  minced  herbs  and  serve  with  French  dressing. 
If  lima  beans  are  used  with  French   dressing,  use  less  oil. 

SWEET  POTATO  SALAD. 

Dice  3  large  boiled  sweet  potatoes ;  add  2  branches  of  celery 
chopped  fine ;  mix  with  French  dressing  with  more  vinegar  than 
usual,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;   and  garnish  with  olives  and  parsley. 


136  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 

Mrs.    R.    M.    Connell. 

Cover  \  box  gelatin  witli  \  cup  cold  water  and  let  soak  1 
hour.  Put  in  a  saucepan  1  pint  strained  tomatoes,  a  stick  of  celery 
chopped,  2  bay  leaves  and  1  slice  onion.  Boil  a  few  minutes.  Add 
the  gelatin  and  strain  through  a  sieve.  Add  1  teaspoon  salt,  and 
a  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Turn  into  small  round  moulds  and  put 
in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayon- 
naise  dressing. 

TOAL\TO   SALAD. 

Peel  the  tomatoes  without  scalding.  Serve  sliced  or  whole  in 
any  manner  to  suit  the  taste  —  plain,  or  with  an  onion  sliced  with 
them ;  on  lettuce  leaves  or  in  a  saucedish,  with  French  dressing, 
any  kind  of  mayonnaise  or  other  dressing,  with  salt  or  sugar,  with 
vinegar  or  without.  They  are  ornamental  as  well  as  good  with 
the  centres  scooped  out  and  filled  with  nicely  seasoned,  chopped 
onions,  or  with  peppers  and  onions,  or  with  celery  chopped  and 
mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  with  or  without  lettuce  leaves. 
In  fact,  nothing  that  you  like  will  hurt  a  tomato,  and  tomatoes 
enrich  and  embellish  anything  they  are  served  with. 

WALDORF  SALAD. 

Chop  up  not  too  fine,  equal  quantities  of  tart  apples  and  celery, 
and  half  as  much  broken  English  walnuts  or  mixed  nuts.  Serve 
on    lettuce   with   mayonnaise   dressing. 

WALDORF-ASTORIA  SALAD. 

Filippini. 

Cut  into  Julienne  strips  1  good  sized  pickled  beet,  2  peeled  and 
cored  apples,  2  tender  stalks  white  celery,  4  Spanish  sweet  peppers  ; 
chop  3  dozen  hazel  nuts.  Season  with  4  tablespoons  Filippii* 
dressing,  and  mi.x  very  thoroughly. 


SALAD  DRESSINGS. 


CHEESE  DRESSING. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  2  hardboiled  eggs,  with  J  teaspoon  Fre^ich 
mustard,  or  half  as  much  dry  mustard,  1  teaspoon  tarragon  vinegar 
(if  at  hand),  1  teaspoon  grated  cheese,  1  teaspoon  catsu]i.  4  table- 
spoons oil  and  1  tablespoon  cider  vinegar.     Beat  well. 

CREAM  DRESSING. 

Mrs.    George   Bird. 

Beat  up  3  eggs  with  I  cup  creatn,  IJ-  cups  vinegar,  4  tablespoons 
sugar,  1  small  teaspoon  salt,  h  teaspoon  pepper,  }  teaspoon  ground 
mustard  and  1  teaspoon  flour.  Heat  slowly  just  to  the  bnil,  and 
pour  over  chopped  cabbage. 

FILIPPINI   SAL.AD   DRESSING. 

Mix  in  a  cold  soup  plate  1  level  teaspoon  curry  powder,  i 
teaspoon  French  mustard,  1  saltspoon  ground  mustard,  1  saltspoon 
cajv'enne  pepper,  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  i  teaspoon 
chives,  2  chopped  shallots,  a  suspicion  of  garlic,  4  teaspoons  salt, 
1  teaspoon  white  pepper,  and  the  finely  chopped  rind  of  }  of  a 
lemon.  (For  the  herbs  that  are  difficult  to  obtain,  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice  will  answer.)  Mix  well  with  a  fork,  add  1  tablespoon 
olive  oil,  and  mash  the  whole  with  the  fork  until  almost  a  pulp, 
gradually  adding  4  tablespoons  white  wine  vinegar.  Mix  up  well, 
pour  into  a  bowl,  and  add  olive  oil  and  vinegar  slowly  in  the  pro- 
portion of  2  to  1,  beating  continuously  until  1  quart  is  reached. 
Press  through  a  strainer  into  a  glass  jar,  cork  or  seal  and  keep  in 
a  cool  place.  This  will  keep  a  good  while,  and  is  used  principally 
to  season  plainer  dressings.  If  desired,  melted  butter  and  whipped 
cream  can  be  used  in  place  of  the  oil,  and  the  curry  powder  may 
be  omitted.     Always  shake  well  before  using. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Mix  well  together  3  tablespoons  olive  oil  with  1  tablespoon 
vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.     Keep  cold  till  wanted. 

GREEN  MAYONNAISE. 

Mrs.    R.    M.    Connell. 

Make  a  good  mayonnaise  dressing.  Rub  in  a  bowl  1  large 
tablespoon  parsley  chopped  very  fine  until  it  makes  almost  a  paste 
with  4  or  o  drons  of  alcohol.  Stir  this  into  the  mayonnaise.  A 
few  boiled  spinach  loaves  mav  be  added. 

1:^7 


138  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW.  ■ 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Put  2  raw  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl,  beat  up  well,  add  ^  teaspoon 
ground  mustard,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Stir  these  in  well,  and  then  drop  slowly  and  stir  in  rapidly  J  pint 
or  more  olive  oil.  From  time  to  time  thin  with  a  little  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar.  If  the  oil  should  curdle,  begin  again  with  a  raw 
yolk,  and  gradually  stir  in  the  curdled  dressing.  Do  not  add  much 
of  either  oil  or  vinegar  at  one  time,  and  very  little  vinegar  suffices 
if  a  thick  dressing  is  wanted.  The  dressing  may  be  flavored  with 
onion  juice,  tarragon  vinegar,  or  a  few  drops  of  tabasco ;  and 
more  or  less  whipped  cream  may  be  added.  The  ingredients 
should  be  cold  when  mixed,  and  the  dressing  kept  in  a  cool  place 
till  wanted.     Will  keep  some  days. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  WITHOUT  OIL. 

Mrs.     Joseph    Brooks. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  '2,  teaspoons  mustard,  1  of  corn- 
starch, 1  of  sugar  and  1  of  salt,  a  shake  of  pepper  and  one  cup 
of  milk.  Let  i  cup  of  vinegar  come  to  the  boil.  Stir  in  the  mix- 
ture, and  cook  until  thick.  On  taking  from  the  fire,  add  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of   a  walnut. 

When  cold  whipped  cream  may  be  added  if  desired. 

POTATO   SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mrs.    Gertrude    Williams. 

Melt  J  cup  butter  or  dripping,  bring  to  the  boil  with  h  pint 
vinegar,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  pour  over  4  tablespoons 
sweet  cream.     Beat  up  well  and  mix  up  with  the  salad. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Miss    Sallie   L.    Mumaugh. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  ^  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  pepper, 
1  heaping  teaspoon  ground  mustard,  salt  to  taste,  and  ^  pint  milk 
or  cream.  Scald  f  pint  vinegar,  and  pour  over  this  mixture.  Stir 
to  a  smooth  paste,  put  back  on  stove,  and  cook  5  minutes,  stirring 
all   the  time. 

SLAW  DRESSING. 

Mrs.     Frank     Auker. 

Season  the  slaw  with  pepper,  salt,  sugar  and  sweet  cream ; 
lastly  add  vinegar  to  the  taste,  stirring  in  slowly  so  as  not  to 
curdle. 

SOUR   CREAM   DRESSING. 

Mrs.  John  D.  Martin. 

Season  rich,  sour  cream  with  pepper  and  salt,  whip  it  well, 
add  vinegar  to  taste,  and  pour  over  chopped  cabbage.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. 


SALAD   DRESSINGS.  139 

WHIPPED  CREAM  DRESSING. 

Whip  J  pint  sweet  cream  with  2  or  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice, 
and  a  saltspoon  each  of  salt  and  paprika,  until  the  cream  is  stiff. 
Js  good  with  any  nut  or  with  a  fruit  salad. 

WIXE  DRESSING. 

Mix  h  cup  sugar  with  I  cup  sherry  and  2  tablespoons  Mara«- 
cliino  or  Madeira. 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE. 


BAKED  EGGS. 

Boil  hard  and  shell  six  eggs.  Cut  into  4  slices  lengthwise. 
Heat  a  good  cream  dressing  in  a  saucepan  until  it  comes  to  the 
boil,  adding  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese.  Put  half  the  slices  of 
egg  at  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  spread  some  sauce  over  them, 
then  a  second  layer  of  each.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  bake  10  minutes. 

BAKED  OR'IELET. 

Mrs.   B.   F.   Martin. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  to  6  eggs,  with  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
a  teaspoon  flour,  a  small  cup  of  milk,  and  a  little  salt.  Stir  in  the 
well  beaten  whites.     Put  in  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  quickly. 

BEAUREGARD   EGGS. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Boil  5  eggs  hard  ;  shell,  chop  tlie  whites  fine  and  rub  the  yolks 
through  a  sieve.  Bring  h  pint  milk  to  a  boil,  rub  a  lump  of  butter 
size  of  a  walnut  with  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  and  stir  smoothly 
into  the  boiling  milk;  add  the  white's  of  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Put  5  squares  of  buttered  toast  on  a  hot  platter,  spread 
with  the  sauce,  sprinkle  with  the  grated  yolks,  again  with  the 
sauce,  and  finish  with  the  yolks ;  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
stand   in   the  oven  a   moment  before   serving. 

BOILED  EGGS. 

Put  the  eggs  in  boiling  water,  and  let  boil  hard  from  2  to  Si- 
minutes,  according  to  taste.  Or  put  the  eggs  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water,  and  let  boil.  Take  up  at  once.  Or  put  the  eggs  in  a  pan, 
pour  over  them  boiling  water,  cover,  and  set  back  on  the  stove  for 
G  minutes.     The  last  2  ways  are  suited  to  invalids. 

To  boil  eggs  hard,  put  them  in  hot  water,  and  let  boil  10 
minutes. 

BREAD   OMELET. 

Beat  3  eggs  separately,  add  i-  cup  each  milk  and  bread  crumbs 
to  the  yolks,  }  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  pepper ;  stir  the  stiff  whites 
in  carefully ;  have  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut  hot  in  a  pan, 
turn  m  the  eggs,  and  shake  to  keep  from  sticking ;  when  brown 
set  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  cook  the  middle ;  turn  out  on  a 
warm  dish  with  or  without  folding,  and  serve  immediately, 

140 


EGGS   AND    CHEESE.  141 

CHEESE  BALLS. 

Mrs,    George    Ewing. 

Mix  a  small  plate  of  grated  cheese  with  a  good  dash  of  cay- 
enne pepper  and  a  little  salt,  and  stir  in  the  white  of  an  egg.  Form 
into  small  balls,  roll  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  the  egg,  then  in  fine 
cracker  crumbs,   and   fry  like   doughnuts. 

CHEESE  BISCUITS. 

Rub  2  tablespoons  butter  with  6  tablespoons  flour,  work  in  2 
heaping  tablespoons  cheese,  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  and  enough  milk  for  a  firm  paste.  Roll 
the  paste  out  ^  inch  thick,  cut  into  rounds,  put  in  a  buttered  pan, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  8  minutes.  If  not  served  fresh, 
they  should  be  heated  again  before  serving. 

CHEESE  OLIVES. 

Stone  1  dozen  queen  olives.  Take  ^  ounce  Philadelphia  cream 
cheese,  mix  with  it  2  saltspoons  salt,  1  saltspoon  cayenne,  and  ^ 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley.     Fill  the  olives  with  the  prepared  cheese. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLfi. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  butter  with  IJ-  tablespoons  flour  till  smooth; 
stir  into  ^  cup  boiling  milk,  and  cook  till  thick.  Add  2  tablespoons 
grated  cheese,  take  off,  add  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Lastly  stir  in  the  stiff  whites,  turn  into 
buttered  cups  or  one  dish.  Put  in  a  pan,  half  fill  it  with  hot  water, 
and  bake   in   a   moderate "  oven   about  25  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE   STRAWS. 

Mrs.    Charles    Ewing. 

Break  into  i  pound  flour  2  ounces  butter,  and  rub  with  the 
hands  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  2  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  the  white  of  one  well  beaten ;  season  with 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  mix  thoroughly,  roll  out  ^  inch  thick,  and 
put  on  a  well  buttered  tin;  then  cut  in  very  narrow  strips  4  or 
5  inches  long.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  5  minutes  till  a  golden 
brown.  Serve  hot,  taking  care  not  to  break  them  in  taking  from 
the  pan. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Martin. 

Set  a  pan  of  clabber  where  it  will  get  slightly  warm  and  the 
curds  will  begin  to  separate  from  the  whey.  Pour  into  a  thin 
muslin  bag  to  drain.  Let  drain  about  12  hours.  Put  the  curds 
in  a  dish,  mix  lightly  with  cream,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
'  Keep  it  cool  until  used.  Serve  with  extra  cream.  If  the  milk 
is  too  long  in  souring,  or  the  clabber  is  made  too  hot,  or  stands 
too  long,  the  cheese  will  be  bitter  or  "cheesy". 


142  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW.^ 

CREAM   DATES. 

Select  whole  dates,  remove  the  seeds  and  fill  the  cavities  with 
Philadelphia  cream  cheese  with  or  without  paprika. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

Put  2  small  minced  onions  in  a  skillet  with  2  tablespoons  butter. 
When  browning,  stir  in  2  dessertspoons  curry  powder.  Mix  well, 
then  add  2  tablespoons  flour,  stirring  quickly,  and  J  pint  of  stock 
or  1  tablespoon  beef  extract  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Simmer  10 
minutes,  then  add  2  tablespoons  cream  and  six  sliced  hard  boiled 
eggs.     Serve  hot. 

DEVILLED  EGGS. 

Shell  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  cut  neatly  in  halves.  Take  out  the 
yolks  and  mix  them  with  the  same  quantity  of  devilled  ham  ;  put 
back  in  the  whites.     Dish  on  lettuce  leaves. 

The  eggs  are  equally  good  mixed  with  plenty  of  salad  dressing 
of  any  kind,  omitting  the  ham. 

EGGS  A  LA  CR£ME. 

Mrs.  Mark  Stecker. 

Boil   6   eggs   hard,   shell   and   cut   crosswise  in   half,   shaving  a 

piece   of   the   ends   so   they   will   stand   upright.  Mix  a   tablespoon 

butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour,  stir  into  a  pint  of  scalding  milk,  sea- 
son and  pour  over  the  eggs.     Serve  hot. 

EGGS   A  L'lTALIENNE. 

Miss    Beall    Ewing. 

Heat  1  cup  milk,  add  ^  cup  chopped  boiled  spaghetti,  half  a 
cup  of  chopped  mushrooms,  and  one  tablespoon  butter;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Cook  2  minutes  stirring  constantly.  Add  three 
well  beaten  eggs,  stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  stir  in 
1   tablespoon   chopped   parsley   and   serve. 

EGGS   GRATIN. 

Boil  8  eggs  hard  and  shell  them.  Rub  1  tablespoon  butter  with 
IJ  tablespoons  flour,  add  1  cup  milk  and  cream.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  nutmeg;  stir  until  it  boils.  Dice  the  eggs  and  mix  them 
with  the  sauce.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated 
cheese  over  all,  and  bake  8  minutes. 

EGGS  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER. 

Brown  2   ounces   butter   in   a   frying  pan;   break  into  it  care- 
fully several  fresh  eggs ;  season  and  fry ;  take  up  carefully  when 
done:  brown  a  second  tablespoon  butter  and  pour  over;  then  pour- 
into  the  pan  2  tablespoons  strong  vinegar,  let  boil  down,  and  pour 
hot   over  the   eggs. 


rV 


EGGS   AND    CHEESE.  143 

ESCALLOPED  CHEESE. 

Miss  Emily  L.  Curran. 

Grate  1  pound  cheese,  or  cut  into  small  bits.  Put  in  a  baking 
dish  in  alternate  layers  with  cracker  crumhs,  sprinkling  each  layer 
with  pepper,  salt  and  bits  of  butter.  Fill  the  dish  about  3  full. 
Beat  up  2  eggs  in  enough  milk  to  fill  the  dish,  pour  over  the  layers, 
and  bake  in  the  oven  until  a  light  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  EGGS. 

Mrs.    G.    Gaus. 

Mix  equal  parts  minced  ham  and  fine  bread  crumbs,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter,  and  add  milk  to  moisten  till 
quite  soft.  Half  fill  buttered  patty  pans  with  this  mixture.  Break 
an  egg  on  the  top  of  each,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  fine 
crumbs  over  all,  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  8  minutes,  serving 
immediately. 

FRIED  EGGS. 

Miss  Betty  Martin. 

Fry  several  slices  of  bacon  in  a  pan  ;  take  out,  break  the  eggs 
gently  into  the  pan,  and  fry  until  the  yolks  are  set;  serve  on  a  hot 
dish  with  the  bacon. 

GOLDEN    FLEECE. 

Miss     Beall     Ewing. 

Break  1  pound  cheese  into  small  pieces,  melt  it  with  i  pint 
cream,  stirring  until  smooth,  season  with  an  even  half  teaspoon 
of  dry  mustard,  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  6  unbroken  eggs, 
put  cover  on  saucepan,  and  let  stand  2  minutes,  then  remove  cover, 
break  up  the  eggs,  and  stir  until  well  scrambled,  and  pour  when 
smooth  and  creamy  over  saltines  or  Uneeda  biscuits. 

Golden  Buck  is  made  by  adding  poached  eggs  whole  when  the 
cheese  is  served. 

MACAROXI  RAREBIT. 

Detroit    "Free    Press." 

Break  ^  pound  of  macaroni  in  small  pieces  and  let  stand  in 
warm  water  until  tender;  drain,  put  in  a  stewpan  with  li  pints  milk 
and  boil  ten  minutes ;  add  1  pound  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces ; 
butter  size  of  an  egg.  pepper  and  salt.  Remove  from  the  stove 
as  soon  as  the  cheese  has  melted,  stirring  constantly  to  keep  from 
sticking.     Pour  over  buttered  toast  and  serve  hot. 

MUSHROO:\I  OMELET. 

Put  a  pint  of  fresh  mushrooms  in  a  saucepan  with  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  rolled  in  cornstarch.  .J  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  simmer  until  the 
mushrooms  are  tender.  Make  plain  omelet,  and  pour  into  an 
omelet  pan.  When  ready  to  turn  pour  half  the  mushrooms  in 
the  centre,  fold  over,  turn  and  dish.  Pour  the  rest  of  the  mush- 
rooms around  the  omelet  and  serve  immediately. 


144  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

OMAVES  COLCHAVES. 

l\Irs.    Frank  Connell. 

Put  2  tablespoons  olive  oil  in  a  hot  skillet,  add  3  young  onions 
chopped  fine,  cook  a  few  minutes,  add  10  green  peppers  (half  of 
them  sweet)  chopped  fine,  and  cook  some  more,  lastlj'  a  dozen 
tomatoes,  and  cook  half  an  hovir  longer.  Serve  on  a  platter  as  a  bed 
for  fried  eggs  cooked  without  turning. 

OMELET. 

Break  8  or  10  eggs  in  a  I)Owl ;  add  1  small  teaspoon  salt,  a 
little  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  cold  water;  beat  well.  Put  butter  size 
of  an  egg  in  a  hot  frying  pan ;  when  hot  cover  the  pan  with  a 
thin  layer  of  the  eggs;  fry  till  the  under  edges  show  brown  when 
lifted  with  a  skimmer.  Double  over  and  serve.  Put  in  a  lump  of 
butter  for  each  omelet. 

OiMELETTE  A  LA  LANGTRY. 

"Egg   Cookery." 

Break  in  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  4  eggs ;  add  pepper,  salt,  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  mushrooms  and  shallots  (or  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice)  ;  beat  up  well  with  -1  tablespoons  cream,  and  add  the  stiff 
whites  of  the  eggs;  put  2  ounces  fresh  butter  in  a  frying  pan;  when 
it  fritters  pour  in  the  omelet  and  stir  briskl}'  a  moment,  skimming 
the  sides  towards  the  centre  till  it  begins  to  set ;  when  light  brown 
turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  immediately  with  a  thin  sauce 
or  gravy. 

OMELETTE  A  LA  PROVENgALE. 

Rub  a  hot  frying  pan  with  a  clove  of  garlic  ;  put  in  h  gill  olive 
oil  and  when  hot  brown  4  sliced  onions ;  drain,  set  aside,  put  butter 
in  the  pan,  and  when  hot  fry  an  omelet ;  spread  the  onions  over  it 
when  done,  fold  over  and  serve. 

OMELETTE  AUX  FINES  HERBES. 

SHce  a  few  shallots,  mushrooms,  and  a  handful  of  parsley  in 
butter  or  olive  oil.  Mix  the  omelet  with  the  herbs  and  2  table- 
spoons cream,  and  fr}'  as  usual. 

OMELETTE  SOUFFLfiE. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs  separately  until  very 
stifif ;  sweeten  and  flavor  the  yolks,  mix  them  together  and  beat 
again  a  long  time.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  it  rises  very 
light    and    browns    nicely.     Serve    immediately    with    sauce. 

OMELET  WITH  SPINACH. 

Prepare  a  little  creamed  spinach  ;  beat  up  an  omelet,  cook,  and 
just  before  folding,  spread  over  3  of  the  spinach.  Fold  the  omelet, 
take  up,  and  dress  the  rest  of  the  spinach  on  the  same  dish. 


EGGS   AND    CHEESE.  ;I45 

Finely  chopped  ham,  creamed  chip  hccf,  jelly  or  any  chopped 
meat  may  be  folded  into  an  omelet  in  this  way. 

Peppers,  either  Spanish  or  green,  are  first  chopped  and  browned 
and  then  mixed  with  the  eggs  before  baking  the  omelet;  croutons 
or  grated  cheese  may  be  mixed  with  the  eggs,  or  chopped  mint  or 
parsley.  Parsley,  cress  and  peppers  combined  with  the  eggs  make 
a  green  omelet. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

Place  some  muffin  rings  in  a  skillet  of  boiling  water;  drop  an 
egg  Arefully  in  each  ring,  and  boil  till  the  white  is  set;  take  up 
carefully  with  a  skimmer,  drain  a  second,  put  on  a  hot  dish  or  on 
toast,   put   a  little  butter  on   each   and  dust  with  pepper  and  salt. 

RINK-TUM-DIDDY. 

Miss  Beall  Ewing. 

Cook  together  a  finely  minced  onion  and  the  pulp  of  i  cup 
tomatoes  with  a  large  tablespoon  butter.  When  smooth,  a'dd  f 
pound  finely  chopped  cheese,  stir  till  the  mixture  is  smooth,  add 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  mustard  to  taste,  and  lastly  stir  in  1  egg. 
Pour  over  soda  crackers. 

SCOTCH   RAREBIT. 

Cut  J  pound  rich  cheese  into  thin  slices,  and  put  over  boiling 
water  to  melt;  stir  in  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  pour  over  4 
slices  of  buttered  toast  on  a  hot  platter. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Beat  six  or  eight  eggs  together  very  slightly,  add  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  put  into  a  hot  frying  pan  in  which  a  little  butter  is 
melted.  Stir  quickly  as  they  cook  until  thev  are  cooked  through 
but  not  hard.     Serve  at  once  on  a  heated  dish. 

SHIRRED  EGGS. 

Heat  some  butter  in  a  fireproof  china  dish;  break  in  the  eggs 
carefully,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  spread  a  little  cream  over, 
and  set  in  the  oven  5  minutes. 

SPANISH  OMELET. 

Fry  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion  in  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter  until  a  light  brown.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour  or  corn- 
starch. Add  gradually  If  cups  strained  tomato  pulp,  and  1  table- 
spoon chopped  green  peppers.  Season  with  \  teaspoon  salt  and  a 
few  drops  of  tabasco.  Capers  and  chopped  mushrooms  may  also 
be  added.  Now  beat  together  4  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  water, 
with  J  teaspoon  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  in  a  buttered 
omelet  pan,  spread  some  of  the  sauce  over  it  when  brown,  fold, 
and  serve  with  the  remaining  sauce  as  dressing, 

10 


146  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

STODGE. 

Miss    Beall    Ewing. 

Take  2  ten  cent  rolls  of  Philadelphia  or  any  good  soft  cheese, 
beat  into  ^  pint  cream,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and  add  6 
slightly  beaten  eggs.  Scramble  and  pour  over  hot  crackers  or 
toast. 

SWISS   EGGS. 

Halve  lengthwise  6  hardboiled  eggs  ;  work  the  yolks  soft  with 
salt,  pepper,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  by  degrees  2  raw  yolks,  3  spoons 
double  cream,  and  enough  grated  cheese  for  a  soft  paste.  Fill  up 
the  cavities  in  the  whites  with  this,  round  smoothly,  put  in  a  but- 
tered dish  in  the  oven  and  sprinkle  with  cheese.  Get  hot  and 
brown  with  a  hot  stove  lid.     Serve  with  Bechamel  Sauce. 

TOMATO  RAREBIT. 

Put  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  chafing  dish  or  saucepan  and 
brown  1  small  chopped  onion  ;  add  1  cup  thick,  canned  tomato,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  and  of  sugar.  Stir 
until  it  boils,  then  add  4  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  and  3  raw 
eggs.  Stir,  and  as  soon  as  the  eggs  are  done,  serve  on  crackers 
or  small   slices   of   toast. 

WELSH  RAREBIT,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Williams. 

Put  several  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  a  frying  pan  and  fry  several 
minutes  on  each  side.  Put  them  on  a  baking  plate  in  the  oven 
and  cover  with  slices  of  cheese,  with  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Bake 
5  or  10  minutes  or  till  the  cheese  is  thoroughly  melted.  Serve  im- 
mediatelv. 

WELSH  RAREBIT,  NO.  2. 

Put  1  gill  Bass's  ale  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  and  1  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  As  soon  as  it  boils 
briskly,  add  1  pound  rich  grated  cheese,  and  stir  until  melted  and 
very  hot.  Have  6  slices  of  hot  fresh  toast  on  6  hot  dishes,  pour 
the  cheese  over  the  pieces  of  toast,  and  serve  immediately. 

A  freshly  poached  egg  is  a  good  addition  to  a  Welsh  rarebit. 


SANDWICHES. 


Every  variety  of  bread  is  used  in  making  sandwiches. 
When  white  bread  is  wanted,  tlie  reguhir  baker's  sandwich  loaves 
are  the  best  a  day  old.  Cut  the  crust  from  the  loaf  first  and 
butter  each  slice  before  cutting  it  as  thin  as  possible.  After  filling 
and  covering  they  are  cut  in  any  shape  wanted.  For  rolling,  take 
fresh  loaves,  even  warm.  If  they  must  be  kept  some  hours  before 
serving,  wrap  them  in  a  napkin  wrung  dry  from  boiling  water. 
Serve  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  doily. 

CAVIAR  SANDWICHKS. 

Cut  slices  of  bread  into  squares  of  4  inches,  butter  on  one  side 
and  toast  nicely.  Cover  the  buttered  side  with  a  thin  layer  of 
Caviar,  lay  a  few  pickled  oysters  on  top,  having  removed  the  hard 
part,  put  over  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  ornament  with  olive 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread  very  thin.  Spread  with 
Philadelphia  cream  cheese,  beaten  up  with  a  rich  sweet  cream, 
and,  if  liked,  a  sprinkling  of  cayenne  pepper.  Put  2  together,  and 
cut  in  half.  Or,  spread  with  grated  cheese,  with  or  without  chopped 
nuts. 

CHEESE  AND   NUT   SANDWICHES. 

IMrs.    George   Leyshon. 

Chop  hickory  nuts  or  English  walnuts  with  an  cf|ual  bulk  of 
Philadelphia  cream  cheese,  or  Neuchatel ;  add  a  little  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Cut  very  thin  slices  of  bread  and  spread  without  butter. 
Cover.  If  desired,  a  lettuce  leaf  may  be  laid  on  tlie  bread  first, 
and  covered  with  the  mixture. 

CHERRY  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  candied  cherries  very  fine,  adding  a  few  drops  at  a 
time  of  sherry  or  orange  juice ;  spread  on  water  thin  crackers. 

CLUB    SANDWICHES    (CHICKEN). 

Cut  12  rather  thick  slices  from  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread, 
toast  and  butter.  Cover  6  with  thin  slices  of  cooked  chicken, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Broil  6  very  thin  slices  of  lean  bacon 
1  minute  on  each  side,  cut  in  two  and  lay  over  the  chicken.  Put  a 
fresh  lettuce  leaf  with  a  little  mayonnaise  over  each  slice,  cover 
with  the  other  6  pieces  of  toast,  trim  the  crusts  off  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  cut  in  two  diagonally.     Place  in  the  oven  a  couple  of 

147 


148  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

minutes  before  serving.  Thin  slices  of  ham  may  take  the  place 
of  the  bacon. 

Duck,  lamb,  veal,  and  lobster  club  sandwiches  are  made  in  the 
same  way. 

For  ham  club  sandwiches,  broil  thin  slices  of  ham,  and  omit 
the  bacon. 

For  sardine  club  sandwiches,  skin  and  remove  the  bones  of  the 
sardines,  and  spread  a  little  French  mustard  over  them,-  finishing 
like  the  chicken  sandwiches. 

For  anchovy  club  sandwiches  spread  the  toast  witli  anchovy 
butter,  arrange  the  anchovies  over  them,  and  proceed  as  with 
chicken. 

For  egg  club  sandwiches,  fry  6  eggs  and  proceed  as  with 
chicken. 

For  cheese  club  sandwiches,  lay  a  thin  slice  Swiss  cheese  over 
the  toasts,  and  proceed  as  with  chicken. 

CREAM  OF  CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Take  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken,  chop  fine  and  pound  it  to 
a  paste ;  put  1  teaspoon  gelatin  in  2  tablespoons  cold  water,  and 
stand  it  over  the  fire  till  dissolved,  then  stir  it  into  the  cliicken 
with  1  teaspoon  grated  horseradish  and  \  teasnoon  salt.  Stir  till 
it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  ^  pint  cream  whipped  stiff,  and  set 
away  to  get  very  cold.  Cut  the  slices  of  bread  a  little  thicker 
than  for  ordinary  fancy  sandwiches ;  butter,  and  spread  with  this 
cream  mixture,  trim  off  crusts,  and  cut  into  shape,  but  do  not 
cover  with  bread.  Garnish  the  tops  with  sliced  olives,  capers  or 
tips   of   celery. 

DREAM  CAKES. 

Miss   McMath. 

Rub  together  I  pound  grated  American  cheese,  salt,  red  pepper, 
and  enough  cream  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  ]Make  sandwiches 
with  the  cheese  for  filling,  and  fry  slowly  in  butter  on  both  sides. 
Serve  very  hot.  The  bread  may  be  buttered  first,  and  the  sand- 
wiches baked.     It  is  also  good  with  the  grated  cheese  alone. 

DREAMS. 
Miss  Beall   Ewing. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  cut  off  the  crusts,  put  them  together 
with  thin  slices  of  cheese  as  for  sandwiches,  without  buttering. 
Put  a  small  lump  of  butter  ui  a  chafing  dish,  and  when  it  bubbles 
put  in  the  dreams ;  brown  on  both  sides.  A  dropped  egg  on  each 
dream   is  a   nice  addition. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  hardboiled  eggs,  lay  them  on  thin  slices  of 
bread  and  butter,  season,  put  a  little  mustard  and  cress  over  them, 
cover,  and  cut  off  crusts.  Or,  mash  fine  the  yolks  of  6  hard  boiled 
eggs,  mix  with  2  tablespoons  each  of  cream  and  olive  oil,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  a  good  pinch  of  paprika,  or  less  cayenne  pepper. 
Finish  as  ham  sandwiches. 


SANDWICHES.  149 

GERMAN  SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Butter  and  cut  thin  slices  from  a  loaf  of  rye  bread.  _  Spread 
each  slice  with  a  thin  layer  of  liinburger  cheese.  Cover  with  very 
thin  slices  of  bologna,  and  then  a  thin  piece  of  pumpernickel. 
Cover  with  a  second  slice  of  bread  and  cheese.  Do  not  cut  oft 
the  crusts. 

HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  cold,  boiled  ham  very  fine,  and  mix  with  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  a  little  onion  juice,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper 
to  each  cup  of  ham.  Cut  the  crusts  off  a  sandwich  loaf,  butter 
and  cut  very  thin  slices.  These  may  be  covered  with  a  buttered 
slice,  or  rolled,  the  edge  pressed  firm,  and  tied  with   ribbon. 

Tongue  sandwiches  are  made  the  same  way. 

LETTUCE   SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.    J.    W.    Holleran. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread ;  butter,  and  put  together  by  twos  with 
strips  of  lettuce  between,  spread  with  mayonnaise,  and  if  liked, 
several  thin  slices  of  onions.     Cut  the  crusts  off  all  around. 

LOBSTER    SANDWICHES. 

Cut  canned  or  freshly  boiled  lobster  into  dice:  sprinkle  with 
salt  red  pepper  and  tarragon  or  other  vinegar.  Let  stand  a  few 
minutes,  and  sprinkle  with  melted  butter.  As  soon  as  it  is  cool, 
place  on  thin,  buttered  slices  of  bread,  cover  with  a  second  but- 
tered slice,  trim  off  the  crusts  and  cut  the  size  wanted. 

MARMALADE  SANDWICHES. 

Cover  tl.in  slices  of  buttered  bread  with  any  kind  of  mar- 
malade:  roll  and  press  the  edge,  then  tie  with  baby  ribbon. 

Preserved  ginger  cut  in  thin  slices  and  used  like  the  marmal- 
ade is  good. 

NUT  SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.    A    E   Faine. 

Cream  i  cup  butter  with  1  cup  granulated  sugar:  add  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla  and  1  cup  nutmeats.  Spread  on  very  thinly  sliced 
bread,  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  chopped  nuts. 

OLIVE   SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.  Hampton   D.   Ewing. 

Chop  Stuffed  olives  quite  fine;  cut  sandwich  bread  very  thin, 
spread  each  slice  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  then  a  layer  of  olives 
on  the  under  slice  and  cover.     Trim  and  cut  as  usual. 


150  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

OYSTER  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  the  size  wanted,  remove  the  crusts 
and  toast.  Cover  closely  with  pickled  oysters,  cutting  out  the  hard 
part,  dust  with  red  pepper,  and  cover  with  a  highly  seasoned 
mavonnaise.     Do  not  cover. 


PARISIAN  CANAPfiS. 

Ysaguirre  and  LaMarca. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  into  small  oblongs,  and  cut  off 
the  crusts.  Fry  in  butter  to  a  light  brown.  Spread  each  piece 
with  anchovy  butter,  and  place  on  each  a  boned  anchovy ;  sprinkle 
over   them   finely   chopped   olives   and   chopped   chives,   if   at   hand. 

PAT£  DE  FOIE  GRAS  SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.  Rorer. 

One  can  will  make  24  sandwiches.  Remove  the  fat  and  mash 
the  foie  gras  to  a  perfectly  smooth  paste,  adding  gradually  4  table- 
spoons soft  butter,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  about 
10  drops  onion  juice;  press  the  whole  through  a  sieve.-  Have  thin 
slices  of  bread  cut  into  fancy  shapes  and  toasted ;  spread  thickly 
with  the  paste,  and  garnish  with  olives  and  white  of  hard  boiled  egg 
cut  in   rings   or   fancy  shapes.     Do  not  cover. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

Shell  and  grate  very  fine  1  quart  roasted  peanuts ;  add  1 
Philadelphia  cream  cheese;  mix  to  a  smooth  paste.  Spread  thin 
slices  of  bread,  put  2  together,  trim  edges,  and  cut  small.  Or, 
butter  and  cut  thin  slices  of  brown  bread,  cover  with  finely  chopped 
peanuts,  and  salt. 

PICNIC  SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.   Rorer. 

Take  a  fresh  French  roll,  cut  the  top  off  neatly,  and  scoop  out 
the  inside.  Chop  the  white  meat  of  1  chicken  fine  with  2  ounces 
cold  tongue  or  ham,  chop  very  fine  1  large  green  pepper,  1  cucumber 
pickle,  4  oliVes,  and  mix  all  together  with  1  tablespoon  capers, 
and  a  good  mayonnaise  dressing.  Fill  the  roll,  put  on  the  top  crust, 
and  serve  at  once. 


PIMENTO  SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.     Frank    Connell. 

1  small  can  of  sweet  pimentoes  put  through  a  grinder  and  then 
rubbed  to  a  paste  with  1  small  sized  package  of  Philadelphia  cream 
cheese.  Trim  tb.e  crust  off  a  small  loaf,  slice  thin  and  spread  with 
this  paste. 


SANDWICHES.  151 

ROAST  BEEF  SANDWICHES. 

Take  the  remains  of  cold  roast  beef;  mince  it  very  fine;  mix 
1  teaspoon  each  of  melted  butter  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  table- 
spoon tomato  catsup,  and  i  teaspoon  salt  to  each  j  puit  of  meat ; 
stir  the  meat  into  the  sauce.  Spread  on  tlian  buttered  slices  of  bread. 
Cover. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  slices  of  bread  about  h  inch  thick,  cut  off  crusts,  butter  and 
toast  l/ake  the  skin  and  bones  from  1  box  sardines,  lay  them 
carefullv  over  the  toast,  sprinkle  with  chopped  olives  and  capers, 
and  1  teaspoon  lemon  to  each  toast.     Do  not  cover. 

WORKMAN'S    CHEESE   SANDWICHES. 

Mix  1  cup  cottage  cheese  with  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  '2 
tablespoons  thick  cream,  and  .}  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  till  smooth  and 
light  Cut  brown  bread  into  slices  h  inch  thick,  spread  with. the 
cheese  cover  half  of  them  with  very  thin  slices  of  white  bread, 
and  put  the  other  slices  of  brown  bread  and  cheese  on  top.  Do 
not  trim. 


PUDDINas  AND  DESSERTS. 


AIR  BALLS. 

Mrs.    Dick    Spicer. 

Make  a  dough  as  for  cream  tartar  biscuits,  cut  in  small  squares, 
and  fry  like  douglmuts  in  hot  fat.  Drain  on  paper.  Have  some 
molasses  simmering  hot,  dip  these  balls  in  and  serve  hot. 

ALMOND  CUSTARD. 

Put  in  a  double  boiler  1  pint  new  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  }  pound 
blanched  and  pounded  almonds,  2  spoonfuls  rosewater,  and  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs.  Stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  consistency  of 
cream,  then  remove  it  and  put  it  in  a  pudding  dish.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  little  sugar,  spread  over 
the  top  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

AMERICAN  CREAM. 

Cover  ^  box  gelatin  with  \  cup  cold  water  and  let  soak  ^  hour. 
Put  H-  pints  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  let  come  to  the  boil :  add 
the  gelatin,  stir  till  dissolved,  strain  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When 
cold  add  1  cup  sugar  and  the  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  turn  into 
a  mould  and  put  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  Serve  with  Cream  or 
Vanilla  Sauce. 

APPLE   CHARLOTTE. 

Pare  and  steam  6  large  apples  till  tender ;  rub  them  through 
the  colander,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  J  box  gelatin  which  has 
been  soaking  in  cold  water.  Stir  till  dissolved.  Pour  into  a 
basin,  set  it  in  cracked  ice,  stir  hard  till  it  begins  to  thicken ;  then 
add  carefully  1  pint  of  cream  whipped.  Put  in  a  mould,  and  set 
in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 

Other  fruit  or  fruit  juices  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

APPLE   CUSTARD. 

Mrs.    A.    R.    Koon. 

Make  a  good  custard  as  for  pies.  Slice  verj-  thin  several 
ripe  mellow  apples,  cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  and  pour  the 
custard  over  them.  Bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve 
with  a  cream  sauce,  or  sweetened  milk,  flavored  with  lemon. 

152 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  153 

APPLEDORE  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   Hugh  Ewing. 

Line  a  pudding  dish  with  stale  cake.  Fill  to  within  3  inches  of 
the  top  with  fresh  berries  or  currants.  Allow  ^  cup  of  sugar  to 
swell  the  berries,  or  1  cup  to  currants.  Cover  the  whole  with  cake, 
and  wet  it  with  1  cup  wine.  Bake  J  hour,  and  frost  with  whites 
of  2  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.     Brown. 

APPLE  DOWDY. 

Butter  a  baking  dish  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  witli  but- 
tered slices  of  bread  with  the  crusts  cut  off.  Fill  with  sliced  apples, 
grate  over  them  a  little  nutmeg.  Mix  ^  cup  water  and  ^  cup 
molasses,  and  pour  over  the  apples  ;  sprinkle  over  this  }  cup  brown 
sugar,  and  cover  with  slices  of  buttered  bread.  Cover  with  a  tin 
plate,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  2  hours.  Turn  out  on  a  dish, 
and  serve  hot  with  sugar  and  cream. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.   Jno.   A.    Connor. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  thin,  cut  in  squares,  fill  with 
pared  and  quartered  apples,  and  fold  over  the  edges.  Put  1  cup 
sugar,  1  pint  water,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg into  a  pan  on  the  stove.  When  boiling,  drop  in  the  dumplings, 
set  in  the  oven  and  bake  1  hour.  Serve  in  the  sauce  in  the  pan.  If 
it    should   boil    away   too    fast,   add   more    boiling   water. 

STEAMED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

1  pound  suet  chopped  very  fine ;  1  pound  flour ;  1  heaping 
teaspoon  salt ;  mix  all  thoroughly  adding  cold  water  enough  to 
make  a  paste;  roll  as  thin  as  pie  crust;  pare  a  dozen  large  apples, 
quarter  and  core  them,  put  the  quarters  together  again  and  cover 
each  apple  with  a  square  of  the  paste ;  then  butter  slightly  the 
bottom  of  a  steamer  and  lay  in  your  dumplings.  Steam  1  hour. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  with  a  hot  cream  sauce. 

APPLE   FOLLY. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Miller. 

Beat  up  1  cup  of  the  pulp  from  baked  apples  with  2  cups  of 
sugar,  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs  for  ^  hour,  and  serve  with  a  good 
boiled  custard. 

APPLE  FRITTERS,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Patterson. 

Take  1  pint  sour  milk,  add  1  teaspoon  soda,  and  mix  in  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter.  Peel  and  core  large  apples,  slice  clear 
across,  dip  the  slices  in  the  batter,  and  fry  on  both  sides  in  hot 
fat.     Roll  in  granulated  sugar,  and  serve  hot. 


154  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

APPLE  FRITTERS,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.     Mark     Stecker. 

Beat  2  eggs  togetlier  until  light ;  add  1  cup  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  1  cup  flour  or  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Add  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder  and  Ijeat  until  smooth.  Chop  2  or  3  sweet  apples 
fine,  mix  with  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  butter.  Drain  and  sprinkle 
with  pulverized  sugar. 

APPLE  MERINGUE. 

Boil  peeled  and  cored  apples  until  tender  in  a  rich  syrup ; 
set  on  a  dish,  cover  with  a  meringue,  and  set  in  the  oven  until 
browned.     Serve  hot. 

APPLE  PUDDING,  NO.  \. 

l\Irs.    Hugh    Ewing. 

Boil  apples  with  a  little  orange  peel  until  soft,  and  mash  them 
through  a  colander.  Cream  1  pound  butter  and  2  of  sugar,  add  the 
apples  and  10  well  beaten  eggs,  1  wineglass  of  wine,  brandy  and 
rosewater  mixed,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Line 
dish  with  pufif  paste,  put  in  the  mixture  and  bake. 

APPLE  PUDDING,  NO.  2. 

Miss    Kate    ?Iazelton. 

Sift  together  IJ  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt ;  mix  with  f  cup  water.  Put  3  pints  finely  chopped 
apples  in  a  saucepan  with  3  teaspoons  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Cover  with  the  freshly  made  dough,  put  a  lid  over 
the  pan  and  stew  slowly  for  ^  hour.  Take  off  the  lid,  and  place  in 
the  oven  to  brown.     Serve  with  cream  or  a  hot  sauce. 

APPLE  SPONGE. 

Boil  1  pound  of  sugar  in  h  pint  of  water  until  clear.  Pare, 
core  and  slice  1  pound  apples  into  the  syrup.  Stew  till  tender. 
Cover  h  box  gelatin  with  cold  water  and  let  soak  while  the  apples 
are  cooking;  stir  together  and  rub  through  a  sieve,  add  the  juice 
of  2  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  one,  and  stir  till  cold.  Beat  the 
whites  of  3  eggs  stiff,  stir  in  and  beat  until  cold  and  thick,  then 
pour  into  a  mould  to  harden.  Serve  on  a  dish  with  Sabayon*  sauce 
around  it  made  from  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

Peaches,  apricots  or  quinces  may  be  used  in  the  same  way, 
suiting  the  flavoring  to  the   fruit. 

APPLES  PRALINfiES. 

Filippini. 

Peel  and  core  6  good  apples.  Put  \  cup  sugar  and  1}  pints 
water  in  a  saucepan,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  the  apples  and 
boil  until  done.     Take  them  up  and  arrange  on  a  dish.     Blanch  and 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSHRTS.  155 

chop  2  ounces  almonds;  put  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  with  3 
tablespoons  sugar,  i  cup  water,  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Stir  until 
nicely  browned.  Fill  the  hollows  of  the  apples  with  currant  jelly, 
spread  the  almonds  over  the  apples,  and  serve  cold. 

APRICOT  JELLY. 

Put  a  can  of  apricots  in  a  saucepan  with  .1  pound  sugar,  and  let 
boil  a  few  minutes;  strain  off  the  syrup;  if  canned  with  skins  and 
stones,  remove  them  ;  let  get  cold.  Dissolve  i  box  gelatin  in  a  little 
water;  add  1  pint  of  the  syrup;  boil  and  clarify  wath  white  of 
egg.  Pour  a  little  jelly  in  the  bottom  of  the  m'ould ;  when  set, 
place  a  few  apricots  over  it:  add  more  jelly  and  apricots  alter- 
'lately  till  the  mould  is  full;  let  get  very  cold,  turn  out  of  the 
mould  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  All  bought  canned  fruits 
make  good  desserts  treated  in  this  way. 

BAKED  FLOUR  PUDDING. 

1^,  pints  buttermilk,  1  cup  cream,  4  well  beaten  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoons soda  in  the  milk,  flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter.  If  you 
have  no  cream,  take  that  much  more  buttermilk.  Butter  a  pudding 
dish,  pour  the  batter  in  and  bake  until  done.  Serve  hot  with  any 
hot  sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

BANANA  CREAM. 

Skin  and  mash  five  ripe  bananas  with  o  ounces  sugar ;  whip 
J  pint  creani ;  add  the  bananas,  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  and,  if  you 
use  it,  I  wineglass  brandy ;  mix  in  well  i  ounce  gelatin  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  water;  beat  well  a  few  minutes,  fill  a  mould  and 
keep   in   a   cool   place   till   firm. 

BANANA   FRITTERS. 

Mrs.   Margaret  Abram. 

Beat  2  eggs  with  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  flour,  i  teaspoon  baking 
powder  in  the  flour,  and  }  teaspoon  salt.  Peel  six  bananas,  slice 
them  lengthwise,  dip  in  the  batter,  and  drop  in  boiling  fat. 

BANANA  PUDDING. 

Beat  together  1  tablespoon  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  3  yolks  of  egg, 
and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Add  3  sliced  bananas,  and  1  cup  sifted 
flour.  Mix  gently.  Add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  put 
in  a  buttered  pudding  mould  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  40 
minutes.     Turn  out  on  a  dish  and  serve  hot  with  raspberry  sauce. 

BANANA  SHORTCAKE. 

Make  a  plain  layer  cake  and  let  get  cold.  About  1  hour  be- 
fore serving,  make  a  syrup  of  U  cups  sugar,  4  tablespoons  hot 
water,  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons.  Slice  6  bananas,  and  let  infuse 
in  the  syrup,  turning  occasionally.  When  ready  to  serve,  put  a 
thick  layer  on  the  top  of  each  cake,  sprinkle  with  chopped  walnuts, 
put  together,  and  heap  whipped  cream  over  it. 


156  OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

BATTER  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Hugh    Ewing. 

Put  1  quart  milk  in  a  double  boiler  reserving  enough  to  wet 
7  tablespoons  flour.  Beat  in  ;J  eggs  with  the  milk  and  flour,  and 
pour  this  into  the  boiling  milk.  Add  a  little  salt,  and  if  berries 
are  wanted,  1  cup  berries  and  i  more  flour.  Boil  2  hours  without 
any  interruption.  Serve  hot  with  lemon  sauce.  Any  fresh  or 
canned  fruit  may  be  used. 

BISCUIT   PUDDING. 

Mrs.     Lena    Moseman. 

Prepare  a  good  biscuit  dough,  cut  into  biscuits,  one  at  a  time 
lay  half  of  them  at  the  bottom  of  cups,  spread  with  fresh  or 
canned  fruit,  and  put  a  second  biscuit  over  each  one.  Put  the 
cups  in  a  steamer,  cover  with  the  lid,  put  over  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  and  steam  half  an  hour  or  more  till  done.  Serve  with 
cream  and   sugar,  or   any   sauce  liked. 

BLACKBERRY    PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Wilson. 

Beat  together  f  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1|-  cups  flour,  4  eggs, 
3  tablespoons  sweet  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda,  and  1  cup  canned 
blackberry  juice.  Bake  in  a  dripping  pan,  and  serve  hot  with 
sauce. 

BLACKBERRY  SPONGE. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Cover  \  box  gelatin  with  \  cup  cold  water,  and  soak  for  |- 
hour.  Pour  over  it  1  pint  boiling  water,  add  ^  cup  sugar,  and  stir 
till  dissolved;  add  ^  pint  blackberry  juice  and  strain  into  a  tin 
basin  set  in  cracked  ice,  stirring  occasionally  until  cold.  Add  the 
stitf  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  beat  until  smooth ;  turn  into  a  mould 
to  harden.  Turn  out  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  vanilla  sauce  poured 
around  it. 

For  Raspberry   Sponge,   double  the   quantity  of  juice. 

For  Currant  Sponge,  take  currant  juice  in  place  of  blackberry, 
twice  as  much   sugar,  and  half  as  much  water. 

For  Strawberry  Sponge,  double  the  juice  and  sugar,  and  use 
half  the  quantity  of  water. 

For  Orange  Sponge,  double  the  sugar,  and  use  the  juice  of 
5  large  oranges. 

For  Lemon  Sponge,  use  the  juice  of  3  lemons  in  place  of  the 
b'ackberry  juice,  and  2\  cups  sugar. 

BLACK  CURRANT  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   Jonah   Webb. 

Chop  beef  suet  very  fine,  mix  with  enough  flour  and  water 
for  a  good,  soft  dough ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  of  baking 
powder ;  roll  out  in  a  sheet.     Grease  a  pudding  bowl,  line  the  sides 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  157 

with  the  paste,  fill  with  the  currants,  sjirinklc  well  with  sugar, 
cover  with  a  top  crust,  and  that  with  floured  cloth,  and  boil  2J- 
hours.     Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

BLANC   MANGE. 

Mrs.    Katie    Callahan. 

Dissolve  3  heaping  tablespoons  corn  starch  and  the  same 
amount  of  sugar  in  1  pint  milk,  add  whites  of  3  well  beaten  eggs, 
and  pour  into  1  pint  boiling  milk;  stir  continuously  till  it  boils 
again.  Take  off.  flavor  to  suit  the  taste,  and  pour  into  cold  moulds. 
Serve  cold  with  cream  and  currant  jellj^.  The  eggs  may  be 
omitted. 

BOMBAY  PUDDING. 

"The   Housekeeper's   Friend." 

To   a  good,  sweet  custard,  add   a   little  butter,   a  little   nutmeg 
,  and    a   glass   of   wine.      Mix   in    a    grated    cocoanut.      Line    a   dish 
with   puff  paste,  fill  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

BREAD  PUDDING,  NO.   I. 

"The   Housekeeper's  Friend." 

Cut  a  loaf  of  baker's  bread  in  slices,  spread  each  with  butter, 
put  it  in  a  pan  and  pour  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  over  it,  letting  it 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  7  eggs  (very  light),  \  pound 
sugar,  1  pound  raisins,  and  spices  to  taste,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and 
mace.     Bake  as  you  would  pound  cake  and  eat  with  a  sauce. 

BREAD   PUDDING,  NO.   2. 

Miss  Bertha  Truax. 

Beat  3  eggs  very  light,  add  1  quart  milk,  sugar,  vanilla  and 
allspice  to  taste,  and  about  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  till  done. 
Serve  with  cream. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

"Boston     Cooking     School." 

Cut  i  inch  slices  from  a  small  loaf  stale  bread ;  butter  well 
and  place  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  butter  side  down ;  beat  3 
eggs  slightly,  add  J  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt  and  1  quart  milk : 
strain  over  the  bread  and  let  stand  30  minutes.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  1  hour,  keeping  the  dish  covered  the  first  half  hour.  Brown 
well,  and  serve  hot  with  hard  sauce,  or  any  plain  sauce.  If  liked, 
f  cup  raisins  may  be  parboiled,  seeded  and  sprinkled  between  the 
layers. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

Mrs.    Peter    Curtis. 

^  cup  brown  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  1  pint  soft  bread  crumbs, 
juice  of  ^  lemon. 

Melt  the  butter  and  add  to  the  crumbs.  Put  a  layer  of  the 
crumbs  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  apples,  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Put  more  crumbs  on  top,  and  bake 
until  apples  are  done.     Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 


158  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CABINET  PUDDING. 

Butter  a  pudding  mould  (1  quart).  Cut  from  a  firm  loaf  of 
bread  a  number  of  slices  J  inch  thick.  Cut  again  about  30  round 
pieces  an  inch  in  breadth  from  these  slices,  and  soak  them  for 
10  minutes  in  a  custard  made  of  2  raw  eggs  beaten  up  with  1 
tablespoon  powdered  sugar  and  J  cup  cream.  Chop  very  fine  6 
slices  of  candied  pineapple,  and  a  number  of  good  nutmeats,  and 
mix  them.  Arrange  the  bread  and  the  pineapple  in  the  mould  in 
alternate  laj-ers,  seeing  that  the  last  is  bread.  Gradualh'  fill  up 
the  mould  to  the  top  of  the  bread  with  an  uncooked  vanilla  cus- 
tard. Put  in  the  oven  in  a  pan  filled  with  water  half  the  height 
of  the  mould,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  heat  1  hour.  Turn  out  on 
a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  hot  pineapple  sauce. 

CARAMEL  CREAM. 

Boil  1  ounce  powdered  sugar  with  2  tablespoons  cold  water 
till  a  light  brown.  Pour  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  mould.  Bea^ 
together  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  the  whites  of  2  with  2  ounces 
fine  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  J  cup  cream,  and  h  teaspoon  vanilla.  Strain 
into  the  mould.  Put  in  the  oven  in  a  deep  pan,  and  pour  in  boil- 
ing water  half  the  height  of  the  mould.  Cook  20  minutes.  Let 
get  cold,  then  turn  out  on  a  dish,  and  serve  with  the  liquor  of  the 
caramel. 

Chocolate  Caramel  Cream  is  made  by  adding  3  ounces  sweet- 
ened chocolate  to  the  cream. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE,  NO.  1. 

Line  a  quart  pudding  mould  with  split  lady  fingers.  Whip 
J  pint  rich,  sweet  cream,  let  stand  2  minutes,  then  add  3  ounces 
powdered  sugar  and  2  teaspoons  vanilla,  and  whip  again  for  5 
minutes.  Fill  up  the  mould,  turn  out  on  a  cold  dish,  decorate  with 
extra  whipped   cream,  and   serve. 

Coffee  Charlotte  needs  2  tablespoons  strong  coffee  added  to 
the  whipped  cream.     Other  flavorings  may  be  used. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.   Rorer. 

Cover  I  box  gelatin  with  cold  water  and  let  soak  ^  hour. 
Whip  and  drain  1  quart  rich  cream.  Line  2  quart  moulds  with  ^ 
pound  lady  fingers,  put  the  bowl  of  cream  in  a  pan  of  cracked 
ice;  add  just  enough  boiling  water  to  the  gelatin  to  dissolve  it: 
whip  f  cup  powdered  sugar  in  with  the  cream,  then  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  4  tablespoons  sherry  (if  you  use  wine),  and  lastly 
strain  in  the  gelatin.  Stir  inmnediately  from  the  sides  and  bottom 
of  the  bowl  till  it  be<rins  to  thicken,  then  pour  into  the  moulds 
and  set  away  to  harden. 

CHARTREUSE  D'ORANGES. 

"The   People's  Cook  Book." 

Make  a  clear  orange  jelly  with  U  nints  water,  6  oranges, 
sugar  to  taste,  and  1}  ounces  gelatin.  Divide  3  oranges  into  quar- 
ters, cut  off  all  the  rind,  remove  the  seeds,  and  slice  in  several 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  159 

pieces  lengthwise.  Take  2  plain  moulds,  one  considerably  smaller 
than  the  other;  pour  a  little  of  the  jelly  into  the  larger  mould; 
when  set,  place  a  layer  of  orange  slices  over  it,  and  cover  with 
enough  jelly  to  make  a  smooth  surface;  put  on  ice  till  quite  firm. 
Place  the  small  mould  exactly  in  the  centre  of  the  other,  put 
orange  slices  around  it  and  fill  up  with  the  rest  of  the  jelly.  Fut 
the  mould  on  the  ice.  Whip  1  pint  cream  stiff  with  ^  ounce  dis- 
solved gelatin  and  some  sweetened  orange  juice  added  a  verv 
little  at  a  time.  When  the  jelly  is  set,  remove  the  small  mould 
by  pouring  hot  water  into  it,  and  fill  up  the  hole  with  the  cream. 
Set  on  ice  for  an  hour,  turn  out  of  the  mould  and  serve. 

The  gelatin  is  not  a  necessity  for  the  cream  if  tlic  latter  is 
rich. 

CHERRY  DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.    Evan   Jones. 

Prepare  a  biscuit  dough  as  for  shortcake ;  roll  thin  and  cut 
into  pieces  G  inches  square.  Put  2  tablespoons  pitted  cherries  in 
tlie  centres,  then  bring  up  each  corner  of  the  square  to  the  centre, 
cut  a  tiny  square  on  top,  and  crimp  the  edge  ;  put  the  dumplings 
in  a  baking  pan,  and  pour  in  a  syrup  made  of  1  cup  granulated 
sugar  and  2  cups  water.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  basting 
often.     Serve  with  a  cherrv  sauce. 


CHERRY  PUDDING,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.  Charles  Sweeney. 

Beat  up  1  cup  sugar  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  and  1  well  beaten 
egg:  add  i  cup  water,  and  flour  enough  to  stiffen:  put  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder  in  the  flour.  Seed  and  sweeten  1  quart  cherries ; 
grease  a  pudding  pan,  pour  i  the  batter  into  the  pan,  spread  the 
cherries  over,  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  batter  on  top.  Bake  slowly 
for  1   hour.     Serve  with  milk  or  a  cherry  sauce. 

The  batter  may  be  made  with   milk  if  preferred. 

CHERRY  PUDDING,  NO.  2. 

Four  ounces  of  dry  bread  diced ;  mix  with  1  cup  lukewarm 
milk,  squeeze  the  milk  out  lightly.  Put  the  bread  with  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  saltspoon  salt,  3  eggs,  3  ounces  preserved  cherries 
chopped  (or  candied  cherries),  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  4  table- 
spoons cream ;  beat  well  together  for  5  minutes.  Put  in  a  buttered 
pudding  mould,  and  bake  in  a  pan  filled  with  hot  water  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  20  minutes.  Turn  on  a  dish,  pour  a  Sabayon 
sauce  over  it  and  serve  hot. 

CHERRY  TAPIOCA. 

Wash  the  tapioca  well,  cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  over 
night.  In  the  morninc.  put  on  the  fire  with  1  pint  boiling  water, 
and  simmer  slowlv  till  nerfectly  clear.  Stone  li-  pounds  sour 
cherries,  stir  into  the  boiling  tapioca,  and  sweeten  to  taste.    Turn 


160  OLD   COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

into   the   dish   in   which   they   are   to   be   served,   and   put   where   it 
will  get  very  cold.      Serve  with   sugar  and  cream. 

Orange  tapioca  requires  1  dozen  oranges  to  1  cup  tapioca. 

Peach  tapioca  takes   1  quart  can  peaches. 

Raspberry  and  strawberry  tapioca  require   1   quart  berries. 

Sago  may  be  used  instead  of  tapioca. 

CHESTNUT  CREAM. 

Miss    Beall   Ewing. 

Scald  1  pound  French  or  Italian  chestnuts  and  remove  the 
outer  shell.  Boil  20  minutes  and  rub  off  the  inner  coating.  Chop 
very  fine,  add  J  pint  cream,  sweeten  slightly  and  beat  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Must  be  served  very  cold.  If  the  cream  is  very  thick  add 
a  little  milk. 

CHOCOLATE  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

Melt  2  ounces  chocolate  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  pint  hot  milk 
and  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Beat  up  3  yolks  of  eggs  with  3 
tablespoons  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  stir  into  the  milk, 
cooking  for  several  minutes  but  not  boiling.  Stir  in  1  ounce 
gelatin  until  dissolved,  strain  the  whole  into  a  bowl ;  set  the  bowl 
on  the  ice  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  1  cup 
whipped  cream,  and  mix  gently.  Pour  into  a  mould,  cover  tightly 
and  bury  in  a  tub  with  broken  ice  and  salt  for  2  hours.  Turn 
out  on  a  cold  dish  and  serve.  This  is  also  good  kept  in  a  cold 
place   without  the   freezing,  but  it  takes   longer  to  get  done. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM. 

Melt  \  ounce  Baker's  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  stir  in  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  and,  slowly,  1  pint  rich  cream ;  stir  till  perfectly 
smooth.  Then  add  the  stiff  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  cook  3  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time.     Pour  into  a  dish  and  serve  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    E.    S.    Martin. 

Take  6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  10  tablespoons  grated 
breadcrumbs,  1  quart  milk.  Boil  together  to  the  consistency  of 
pap ;  when  cold,  add  1  cup  brown  sugar,  and  6  eggs,  leaving  out 
the  whites  of  two.  Bake  until  done.  Then  make  an  icing  of  the 
2  whites  of  egg  and  6  tablespoons  of.  sugar,  and  spread  over  the 
top,  browning  in  the  oven.  WTien  served  hot,  no  sauce  is  needed ; 
when  cold,  cream  is  nice. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    E.     S.     Martin. 

Make  a  solid  chocolate  cake  in  a  pan  with  a .  tube  in  the 
centre.  Serve  hot.  filling  the  hollow  with  and  pouring  over  the 
cake  at  the  last  moment,  whipped  cream. 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  J 61 

CHRISTMAS  ALMOND  TART. 

Mrs.   H.   C.    Begland. 

Blanch  and  chop  fine  f  pound  almonds,  mix  with  a  large 
saucer  of  grated  stale  bread ;  beat  separately  until  very  light  the 
yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the  whites  of  12,  add  1  pound  white  sugar, 
the  crumbs,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  1  hour. 

COCOANUT  BLANC  MANGE. 

Miss    Nye. 

Put  1  quart  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  let  it  come  to  the  boil, 
then  stir  in  1  grated  cocnauut  and  3  even  tal)lespoons  corn-starcli 
mixed  with  enough  cold  water  to  soften,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Boil 
5  hour,  stirring  occasionally ;  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  stir  in 
the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Put  in  a  mould,  and  when  cold  turn 
out  and  serve  with  cream. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING.     (White  House.) 

Mrs.  Taft. 

Melt  over  the  fire  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  a  tablespoon  of  water.  Boil  for  a  couple  of  minutes  and 
then  pour  into  a  bowl  to  let  cool.  Mix  with  it  half  a  grated 
cocoanut,  a  tablespoon  of  small  cuts  of  citron,  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  (beaten  separately), 
and  lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Fill  little  paper  cases 
and   bake    immediately.      Can   be   served   hot   or   cold. 

COCOANUT  RICE. 

Filippiiii. 

Take  the  milk  from  2  good  sized  cocoanuts  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  1  pint  cold  milk,  and  the  shredded  white  part  of 
1  cocoanut,  8  ounces  raw  rice,  2  ounces  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence  and  1  saltspoon  salt.  Cook  slowly  for  40  minutes  stirring 
from  the  bottom  to  prevent  scorching.  Stir  in  1  fresh  egg  until 
very  hot.     Take  off,  stir  in  well   1  cup   whipped  cream  and  serve. 

COFFEE  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

Cover  ^  box  gelatin  with  cold  water  and  let  soak  i  hour. 
Then  add  1  cup  strong  boiling  coffee ;  add  1  cup  sugar  and  stir 
till  dissolved.  Strain  and  let  .stand  till  cool.  Then  add  1  cup  milk 
and  1  pint  cream  whipped  ;  mix  well,  turn  into  a  mould  and  set  in 
a  cold  place  to  harden. 

Caramel  Bavarian  Cream  is  made  as  above  using  double  the 
quantity  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  caramel,  and  J  cup  sherry  in  place 
of  the  coffee. 

11 


162  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

COFFEE  CREAM. 

Boil  1  pint  milk  with  1  pint  cream  and  h  teaspoon  vanilla  for 
1  minute.  Beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  well  with  \  cup  sugar,  pour 
the  hot  milk  over  it,  return  to  the  stove  and  cook  without  boiling 
for  5  minutes.  Strain  J  cup  very  strong,  freshly  made  coffee  into 
the  cream,  turn  into  a  nice  bowl,  and  serve  in  the  bowl  when 
thoroughly  cold. 

CORNSTARCH    PUDDING. 

INIrs.    Harrison    Crawford. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  bring  to  tlie  boil,  add 
3  tablespoons  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  'i 
tablespoons  cornstarcli  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  milk  kept  out, 
and,  as  it  begins  to  thicken,  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Put  in 
moulds  to  cool,  turn  out,  and  serve  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  sugar,  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Chocolate  cornstarch  requires  2  tablespoons  grated  chocolate 
added   to   this   recipe. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING,  NO.  1. 

Miss    Elizabeth    Morgan. 

Beat  together  2  eggs  and  a  cup  of  sugar,  add. 2  cups  cream,  1 
pint  of  flour  with  1^  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  in,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Mix  into  a  smooth  batter  as  for  cake.  Bake  in  a 
bread  or  cake  pan  in  a  hot  oven  3U  minutes.  Serve  with  a  hot 
liquid   sauce. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING,  NO  2. 

Mrs.    Robert   Sines. 

Cream  2  cups  sficar  with  \  pound  butter,  add  2  eggs  beaten 
light,  1  quart  flour  siftecf  with  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  2  cups 
milk,  and  1  teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk.  Bake  J  hour  in  a  buttered 
dripping  pan.     Serve  with   wine   sauce. 

CRANBERRY   ROLY   POLY. 

Sift  1  teaspoon  soda  and  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar  in  1  quart 
flour.  Mix  into  a  soft  dou?h  with  sweet  milk,  roll  out  thin,  cut 
oblong,  and  spread  over  it  1  auart  cranberries  sprinkled  well  with 
^igar.  Dust  with  a  little  flour  and  roM  over  and  over,  then  tie 
in  a  pudding  cloth  and  steam  for  1  hour,  .^nv  tart  fruit  is  good 
used   the   same   way,   or   blackberry   and    other   jams    may   be   used, 

CREAM  FRITTERS. 

Mrs.   Helen    Campbell. 

Boil  1  quart  of  milk  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Add  1  large  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  \  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  blanched  and  chopped 
almonds,  and  1  tablespoon  orange  water.  Boil  for  five  minutes. 
Take  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  6  well  beaten  eggs ;  spread  about 
an  inch  thick  on  an  oiled  platter  and  allow  to  cool.     When  cool, 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  163 

cut  in  strips  an  incli  wide  and  three  long;  roll  carefully  in  fine 
crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  again  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard.  Drain  on  brown  paper,  dust  with  powdered  sugar, 
and   serve  hot. 

CROQU.WTE  OF  PEACHES. 

Boil  1  pound  sugar  in  i  pint  water  till  the  crack  ;  take  off  the 
fire.  Rub  a  plain  2  quart  mould  with  melted  butter ;  take  18  pared, 
halved  and  stoned,  ripe  peaches  ;  take  one  at  a  time  on  a  wooden 
skewer,  dip  in  the  syrup,  then  dip  a  maraschino  cherry  in  the 
syrup  and  fill  the  hole  left  by  the  stone,  and  press  the  peach 
against  the  side  of  the  mould,  so  continuing  until  it  is  entirely 
lined  ;  then  stand  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  When  cold  fill  with 
Charlotte  Russe,  omitting  the  cake.  Keep  in  a  cold  place  for  2 
hours.  When  served,  put  a  plate  over  the  mould,  turn  upside 
down,  put  a  hot  cloth  around   the  mould  and  carefully   remove   it. 

CUP   PUDDING. 

Mrs.    T.     S.    Johnson. 

Take  2  eggs,  and  beat  to  a  smooth  batter  with  milk,  flour, 
baking  powder  in  the  flour,  and  a  little  salt.  P>utter  a  basin,  put 
the  pudding  in,  cover  with  a  floured  cloth,  put  in  a  kettle  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  boil  J  hour.     Serve  with  a  hard  sauce. 

CURRANT  SOP. 

Mrs.     Raynor. 

Cut  thick  slices  of  bread  into  2  inch  squares,  arrange  in  a  dish, 
and  pour  over  them  fresh  currant  syrup  made  as  for  jelly,  allow- 
ing J  pint  sugar  to  1  pint  juice.  When  cold,  set  it  on  the  ice  till 
wanted. 

BAKED  CUSTARD. 

Mrs.   Jolin  Grandy. 

Beat  4  eggs  until  light,  add  \  cup  sugar,  beat  again,  add  1 
quart  milk,  J  of  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  stir  till  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Pour  into  custard  cups  or  into  a  baking  dish.  Place  in 
a  pan  of  boiling  water  in  a  cool  oven,  and  bake  imtil  the  custards 
are  set,  i.  e.,  firm  in  the  centre.  Take  out  of  the  water  and  stand 
away  to  cool. 

BOILED   CUSTARD. 

Mrs.    Wm.     Hoskins. 

Let  1  quart  sweet  milk  come  to  a  boil  ;  add  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs  well  beaten,  J  cup  sugar,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  1  table- 
spoon cornstarch  mixed  up  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Cook  all  to- 
gether a  few  minutes.  Put  in  the  dish  it  is  to  be  served  in,  beat 
the  whites  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  drop  over  the  top  and  set  in 
the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 


164  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CUSTARD  SOUFFLfi. 

Miss   Parloa. 

Rub  2  tablespoons  butter  with  the  same  amount  of  flour  in 
a  hot  saucepan;  stir  in  slowly  1  cup  milk;  let  boil  for  10  minutes. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  2  tablespoons  sugar,  stir  them  into 
the  milk,  and  turn  the  mixture  out  to  cool.  When  cold,  beat  in  the 
stiff  whites,  turn  into  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  bake  20  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  innnediately  with  cream  sauce. 

DATE  PUDDING,  NO.  1. 

]\'[iss    Fannie   Mumaugh. 

Mix  well  together  I  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  fiour,  2  beaten 
eggs,  1  cup  of  English  walnuts  or  other  nuts,  1  cup  chopped  dates, 
and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  20  minutes.  Serve  either 
hot   or   cold   with   whipped  cream. 

DATh:  PUDDING,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.     Cicero     Phipps. 

Mix  2  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  flour,  \h  cups  suet  chopped 
fine,  2  cups  dates  chopped,  and  V  cup  sugar.  Add  a  good  pinch 
of  salt  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Moisten  with  2  eggs  beaten 
in  a  little  milk.  Put  into  a  well  buttered  bowl,  and  steam  from 
3  to  6  hours.     Serve  hot  with  cream,  or  any  sweet  sauce. 

DUTCH  PEACH  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    R.    H.   Webb. 

Separate  2  eggs  ;  beat  the  yolks,  add  a  cup  of  milk,  \  teaspoon 
salt,  and  a  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Mix  and  stir  in  1^  cups  flour 
sifted  with  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add  the  well  beaten 
whites,  and  pour  the  batter  into  a  shallow  greased  pan.  Put  halves 
of  canned  or  fresh  peaches  over  the  top,  sprinkle  with  6  table- 
spoons sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  J  hour.  Serve  hot 
with  peach  sauce,  hard  sauce   or  cream. 

ENGLISH    PLUM    PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Ambrose    Gibbs. 

Wash  and  pick  1  pound  currants  very  carefully  :  chop  1  pound 
beef  suet  very  fine ;  add  to  them  1  pound  seeded  raisins,  \\  pounds 
sifted  flour,  1  pound  sugar,  \  pound  lemon  and  citron,  ^-  teaspoon 
each  ginger,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  salt,  and  \  a  grated  nutmeg; 
beat  up  3  eggs  in  1  cup  molasses  and  add  "k  pint  beer :  mix  this 
thoroughly  with  the  dry  ingredients.  Warm  the  beer  before  mix- 
ing. Put  this  in  2  bowls  and  cover,  or  in  2  pudding  bags  greased 
and  floured  and  filled  about  s  full.  Put  in  a  kettle  of  water  and 
steam  12  hours.  Put  over  a  gas  fire  late  at  night  with  a  cover 
over  the  kettle,  it  will  not  boil  dry  before  early  morning,  but  will 


PUDDIS'GS   AXD   DESSERTS.  165 

be  ready  for  noon  dinner.  Wlien  a  left  over  pudding  appears 
the  second  time,  it  need  only  be  steamed  about  an  hour,  or  may 
be  cut  in  slices  and  heated  in  the  oven. 

SAUCE. 

Grate  a  little  nutmeg  into  |  cup  hot  water,  stir  in  1  dessert- 
spoon cornstarch,  and  2  tablespoons  sugar,  boil  about  5  minutes, 
add  1  wineglass  brandy,  and  a  generous  squeeze  of  lemon  juice, 
and  serve  hot. 

EWING   PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Rose    Dolan. 

Butter  a  deep  pudding  dish  ;  put  a  layer  of  sliced  apples  in  the 
bottom,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg,  and  bits  of 
butter;  break  coarse  pieces  of  stale  bread  over  them,  put  a  second 
layer  of  apples  and  seasoning  and  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Fill  in  with 
warm  water  till  it  shows.     Bake  and  serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 

FARINA  PUDDING. 

Bring  1  pint  of  milk  to  a  boil;  stir  in  1  ounce  farina  gradually: 
boil  10  minutes  stirring;  take  off,  add  4  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  tablespoons  currants  and  the  yolks  of 
3  eggs ;  mix  thoroughly,  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
put  in  a  buttered  mould,  place  in  the  oven  in  hot  water,  and  bake 
30  minutes  or  more  until  done.  Turn  out  on  a  dish  and  serve  hot 
with  Sabayon  sauce. 

Rice  flour  may  be  used  instead  of   farina. 

FAVORITE  PUDDING,  OR  "APPLE  JACK". 

Mrs.     Grace     Duckworth. 

Butter  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish,  and  put  in  2  cups  sliced 
apple  (or  any  other  fresh  fruit)  ;  make  a  batter  of  1  cup  sugar,  1 
cup  milk,  1  well  beaten  egg,  2  cups  flour,  1^  teaspoons  baking  powder 
sifted  in  the  flour,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg.  Pour  this  over  the 
apples  and  bake.  W'licn  done,  turn  out  on  the  serving  disii,  fruit 
side  up,   and    serve   with    milk   or   a   liquid   sauce. 

Or  the  apples  may  be  cored  whole  and  the  cavities  filled 
with  sugar. 

FIG   PUDDING. 

Mrs.    James    Costello. 

8  figs  chopped  very  fine,  i  cup  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  i  cup 
chopped  raisins,  h  cup  molasses,  h  pint  bread  crumbs,  4  eggs  beaten 
very  light.  Soak  the  bread  crumbs  for  h  hour  in  1  pint  milk  ;  put 
a  pinch  of  soda  in  the  molasses,  mix  all  together,  put  in  covered 
bowl  and  stearn  3  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

FLOAT. 

Mrs.    Levi   Thrapp. 

Put  1  quart  of  milk  to  boil  in  a  double  boiler,  adding  1  cup 
sugar.  When  it  Iioils  stir  in  2  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in 
a  little  milk,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  well  beaten,  and  1  teaspoon  lemon 


166  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

extract.  Stir  until  it  just  starts  to  boil.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  egg 
very  stiff,  drop  with  a  tablespoon  over  the  top  and  put  in  the  oven 
to  brown. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Scald  1  pint  milk,  and  pour  over  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  with 
2  tablespoons  sugar ;  return  to  saucepan  and  boil  till  it  begins  to 
thicken.  When  somewhat  cool,  flavor  and  pour  into  a  glass  dish. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  as  stiff  as  possible,  beating  in  grad- 
ually \  cup  currant  jelly.  Drop  this  by  spoonfuls  over  the  top. 
If  preferred,  the  jelly  and  eggs  may  be  dropped  on  in  separate 
spoonfuls. 

FRENCH  FRITTERS. 

Mrs.    Mark   Stacker. 

1  tumbler  water,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Put  all  together  in  a  saucepan  and  when  the  butter  is  thoroughly 
melted  stir  in  rapidlv  1  heaping  pint  of  flour.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  add  5  eggs  broken  in  and  mixed  one  at  a  time.  Drop  by 
tablespoons  into  hot  butter  or  lard,  take  out  when  brown,  roll  in 
sugar  and  cinnamon  and   serve. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES. 

Put  1  cup  sifted  flour  in  a  bowl,  break  into  it  2  raw  eggs,  add  1 
even  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  1  ^altspoon  salt,  J  pint  cold  milk, 
a  few  drops  vanilla  extract,  half  as  much  orange  extract,  and  1 
tablespoon  Jamaica  rum.  Beat  up  together  hard  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  let  stand  for  \  hour.  Butter  a  griddle  very  lightly,  pour  the 
batter  on  it  a  tablespoon  to  a  cake,  bake  and  turn,  and  lift  to  a 
hot  plate  until  all  are  done.  Then  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them 
one  at  a  time,  roll  each  one  up,  dust  again  and  serve  all  on  a  dish 
with  jelly.  They  may  be  spread  thickly  with  jelly  before  rolling, 
and  the  rolls  dusted  with  sugar  as  before.  They  are  also  good 
served  with  a  chocolate,  or  coffee,  or  hot  fruit  sauce. 

FRENCH  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Jacob  Hoy. 

Put  1  quart  of  milk  on  to  boil  in  a  double  boiler,  with  \  cup 
sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Save  a  little  of  the  milk  to  dissolve  3 
tablespoons  cornstarch  ;  when  the  milk  boils  stir  this  in,  and  when 
beginning  to  thicken  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar, 
saving  out  a  little,  flavor  with  lemon,  spread  over  the  pudding  and 
put  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Moisten  the  top  with  the  remnant  of 
frosting,   and  sprinkle   over   it  grated   cocoanut. 

GERMAN  CUSTARD. 

Mrs.   George  Van  Horn. 

Make  a  pint  of  good  rich  custard;  when  boiling  hot  add  1 
ounce  sweet  almonds  and  h  ounce  peanuts,  blanched,  roasted  and 
pounded  to  a  paste ;  also  a  little  candied  citron  cut  into  thin  strips  ; 
when  cooked  through,  pour  into  a  dish  and  set  on  ice  until  wanted. 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  167 

GINGER   PUDDING. 

Stir  together  briskly  for  5  minutes  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs, 
1_  pinch  salt,  1|  ounces  sugar,  1  level  tablespoon  grated,  preserved 
ginger,  one  ounce  cake  or  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  1 
cup  sweet  milk.  Butter  6  cups,  put  in  the  mixture,  put  in  deep 
pans  with  boiling  water  to  half  their  height,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven 
30  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  a  good  hot 
sauce. 

I  tablespoon  ground  ginger  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
preserved. 

GOODY  TWO   SAUCES. 

Mrs.    Frank    Thomas. 

Into  a  pint  of  rich  cream  sweetened  with  granulated  sugar  stir 
sufficient  currant  jelly  to  give  it  a  rich  pink  color.  Pour  this  in  a 
glass  dish.  In  the  center  put  slices  of  stale  plain  cake,  each  piece 
covered  with  marmalade  or  raspberry  jam,  lapping  neatly  over  each 
other.  Flavor  another  pint  of  cream  with  the  juice  of  2  lemons, 
whip  up  stiffly  and  pile  up  over  the  cake. 

GOOSEBERRY  FOOL. 

Stem  1  quart  ripe  gooseberries,  stew  in  1  pint  water  till  tender, 
and  rub  them  through  the  colander.  Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup 
sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  1  eggs  beaten  very  light.  Put  in  a  glass 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  2  heaping  tablespoons  pow- 
dered sugar  till  stiff,  heap  over  the  gooseberries,  and  let  them  get 
very  cold. 

HAMBURG  CREAM. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2 
lemons  and  ^  pound  powdered  sugar ;  put  on  the  fire  and  let  come 
to  the  boil.  Add  quickly  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  stir  up 
together,  take  from  the  fire  and  serve  in  glasses  cold. 

HARRISON  PUDDING. 

Cream  ^  cup  butter  with  h  cup  sugar,  add  1  well  beaten  egg, 
J  cup  milk,  \  cup  clean  currants,  and  f  teaspoon  baking  powder 
sifted  with  ^  cup  flour.  Bake  in  a  narrow  tin  not  quite  j  hour. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce,  or  any  liquid  sauce  preferred. 

HOME  PUDDING. 

Miss    Mary    Holleran. 

Beat  well  together  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  butter  and  one  of 
sugar,  add  1  cup  sweet  milk,  and  1  full  pint  flour  sifted  with  2 
teaspoons  cream  tartar;  add  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water.  Steam  80  miimtes.  Serve  with  any  good  sauce.  If  you 
wish  to  add   fresh   or  canned   fruit,  then   steam   1   hour. 


168  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING,  BAKED. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing,    Jr.  . 

Butter  several  slices  bread  on  both  sides  ;  place  one  at  bottom 
of  a  pudding  dish,  cover  with  huckleberries  and  sprinkle  sugar  over 
them.  Put  in  a  second  layer  of  bread,  cover  with  the  rest  of 
the  berries  and  the  sugar.  Pour  cold  water  in  until  nearly  up  to 
the  top  of  the  fruit.  Use  about  1  pint  berries  and  1  cup  sugar  for 
2  slices  bread.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  |-  hour  or  more.  Any  other 
berries  may  be  used  the  same  way,  or  canned  fruit.  Vary  the 
amount  of  sugar  to  suit  the  fruit.     Pie  plant  makes  a  good  pudding. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING,  BOILED,  NO.   1. 

Make  a  batter  of  1  pint  milk,  2  eggs,  1  gill  baker's  yeast,  1 
saltspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  boiling  water,  and  about  1  quart 
flouj-  —  enough  for  a  thick  batter.  Set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  4 
hours.  Dredge  1  quart  huckleberries  with  flour,  stir  it  quickly  into 
the  batter,  and  boil  in  a  buttered  mould  or  pudding  bag  for  2 
hours.     Serve  with   any  sweet  sauce. 

HUCKLEBERRY    PUDDING,    BOILED,    NO.    2. 

li  pound  flour,  i  pound  chopped  beef  suet,  ^  pint  cold  water, 
and  J  teaspoon  salt  mixed  together  to  a  smooth  paste.  Roll  it  out 
thin.  Line  a  buttered  quart  bowl  with  the  paste.  Beat  up  1  egg 
with  \  pound  sugar,  2  ounces  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  IJ 
pounds  liuckleberries.  Fill  the  bowl,  cover  with  paste,  wet  the 
edges,  pinch  together,  wrap  in  a  buttered  cloth  and  boil  1  hour. 
Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

HUCKLEBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Mrs.    Herbert   Grandy. 

Cream  h  cup  butter  with  2  cups  sugar,  add  1  pint  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  the  flour, 
and  1  quart  washed  and  drained  huckleberries.  If  necessary,  add 
more  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Bake  in  a  dripping  pan,  and 
serve   hot   with   sauce. 

INDIAN  PUDDING   (BAKED). 

Bring  1  quart  of  milk  to  the  boil;  stir  in  1  cup  cornmeal,  and 

1  cup  molasses ;  let  come  to  the  boil  again  ;  add  4  eggs  well  beaten, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  \  cup  cold  milk,  a  little  salt  and  ginger; 
pour  into  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  2  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 

INDIAN   PUDDING   (BOILED). 

Scald  1  quart  Indian  meal  with  water  enough  to  swell  it ;  add 

2  teaspoons  salt,  \  pound  suet  chopped  fine,  raisins  or  chopped 
apples;   boil  4   hours.     This   goes   well    with   roast  pork. 


•     PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  169 

JELLIED  CHERRIES. 

Stone  1  quart  of  ripe,  red  cherries,  saving  the  liquor.  Put  1 
cup  sugar  over  the  cherries,  and  add 'the  juice  to  3  teaspoons 
gelatin  previously  dissolved  in  ^  pint  cold  water.  Stir  in  a  double 
boiler  until  the  gelatin  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  and  pour  over  the 
cherries.  Mix  thoroughly,  put  in  a  mould,  and  set  in  a  cold  place 
several  hours,  to  stiffen.  If  sour  cherries  are  used,  more  sugar 
will   be  needed. 

LAURA'S   RENOUNCEMENT. 

Mrs.   E.   S.   Martin. 

Butter  a  pudding  dish ;  peel,  quarter  and  core  enough  tart 
apples  to  half  fdl  the  dish,  sprinkle  with  butter,  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon to  taste.  Make  a  good,  soft  gingerbread  batter,  and  pour 
over  the  apples  leaving  just  room  for  the  batter  to  rise.  Put  in 
the  oven  and  bake  J  hour.  Serve  with  a  good  plain,  hot  sauce. 
If  the  apples  will  not  cook  in  the  time,  thev  must  be  half  baked 
first. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

Soak  I  box  gelatin  in  cold  water  J  hour  ;  pour  over  it  2^  cups 
boiling  water;  when  dissolved,  strain  and  add  it  to  1  cup  sugar 
and   i  cup   lemon   juice.     Pour   into   a   mould   and  chill. 

Orange  Jelly  is  made  like  lemon  jelly  using  only  li-  cups  boil- 
ing water,  the  same  quantity  orange  juice  and  3  tablespoons  lemon 
juice.     Orange  wine  makes  a  pleasantly  flavored  jelly. 

Coffee  Jelly  is  made  in  the  same  way,  using  1  cup  boiling  water, 
2  cups  freshly  made  coffee,  and  only  i  cup  sugar.  Serve  with 
cream,  plain  or  whipped. 

LEMON  PUDDING,  NO.  L 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  10  eggs  separately;  stir  1  cup 
sugar  lightly  into  the  yolks  and  add  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  half 
a  lemon  and  also  the  juice  and  pulp  of  the  whole;  add  the  other 
half  of  the  grated  rind  to  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  and  mix  all 
together,  beating  very  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  pudding  dish  about 
J  hour. 

LEMON  PUDDING,  NO.  2. 

Miss   M.   E.    Donohoe. 

Stir  into  the  beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs  1  cup  sugar,  |  cup  water, 
and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons.  .Soften  in  warm  water 
()  crackers,  lay  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  pour  the  custard 
over  them  and  bake  till  firm.  Beat  whites  of  egg  to  a  froth,  add 
ti  tablespoons  sugar,  and  beat.  When  custard  is  done  spread  with 
the  frosting  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

LEMON  PUDDING,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.    Rosanna    Campbell. 

Soak  2  cups  dried  bread  crumbs  in  1  large  cup  milk :  add  1 
cup  chopped  beef  suet,  4  eggs  beaten  well  with  1  cup  sugar,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  and  lastly  -1  tal)lespoons  flour. 
Mix  gently  into  a  stiff  batter.  Boil  3  hours  in  a  Inittered  mould, 
and  serve  hot  with  a  hot  sauce  of  any  kind. 


170  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

LYONNAISE  CAKE. 

3  ounces  almonds,  2  beans  bitter  ahiionds,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
3  eggs  beaten  separately,  ^-  cup   flour,  2   tablespoons  Jamaica   rum. 

Pound  the  almonds  to  a  paste  with  the  white  of  1  egg.  Mix 
with  it  the  rum  and  sugar,  then  one  at  a  time  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  beating  hard.  Add  gently  the  sifted  fiour  and  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  2  remaining  eggs.  Butter  a  dome  shaped 
mould  ;  pour  in  the  batter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  25  min- 
utes. _  Take  out,  let  cool,  turn  out  of  the  mould  and  cut  crosswise 
into  half-inch  slices.  Spread  a  good  custard  hlling  over  each  slice, 
and  replace  the  slices  as  they  were  originally.  Put  the  cake  on  a 
dish,  decorate  with  whipped  cream,  and  serve  with  a  claret  Sahayon 
sauce  in  a  separate  bowl. 

A  very  acceptable  dessert  can  be  made  without  the  whipped 
cream  and  with  a  simpler  sauce. 

MACEDOINE  OF   PRESERVED   FRUITS. 

Take  G  green  gages,  6  apricots,  a  cup  of  preserved  cherries  and 
1  of  strawberries,  and  3  bananas  cut  in  bits.  Two  oranges  may 
also  be  added.  Have  ready  1  quart  of  wine  or  orange  jelly  and 
pour  ^  into  a  glass  dish.  When  hard  add  the  fruits,  and  pour  over 
them  the  rest  of  the  jelly.  Let  all  stand  on  ice  for  some  hours, 
and  serve  in  the  dish. 

Any  single  fruit  or  any  combination  of  nuts  and  fruit  may  be 
treated  in  the  same  way. 

MANHATTAN  APPLES. 

"Boston     Cooking     School.." 

Core  and  pare  J  dozen  apples  and  boil  in  a  syrup  of  l^  cups 
each  of  sugar  and  water,  turning  often  until  tender.  Lay  J  dozen 
rounds  of  sponge  cake  on  a  dish,  and  place  an  apple  on  each,  boil- 
ing down  the  syrup  until  it  jellies,  l;  tumbler  of  currant  jelly 
added  to  the  syrup  is  good.  Pour  this  over  the  apples.  When 
cold,  place  about  on  the  dish  1  cup  of  sweet  cream,  well  whipped, 
and  ornament  with  maraschino  cherries.  If  served  hot,  the  cream 
must  be  in  a  separate  dish.  The  apples  may  be  baked  instead  of 
boiled. 

MAPLE  PUDDING. 

Cover  1  tablespoon  gelatin  with  cold  water  and  let  soak  J 
hour.  Beat  4  eggs  very  light,  add  gradually  1  cup  maple  syrup, 
stir  over  the  boiling  kettle  till  thick;  add  gelatin,  and  when  cold 
enough  stir  in  1  pint  cream,  whipped.  Pour  in  a  mould  and  set 
on  the   ice   to   harden. 

MERINGUES. 

"Dainty    Dishes." 

Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  very  stiff  :  stir  in  gently  3  ounces  of 
pulverized  sugar.  Place  a  sheet  of  white  paper  on  a  damp  board, 
put  the  mixture  on  by  tablespoons  shaping  each  rounding  and 
smooth  like  an  egg.     Place  in  a  very  cool  oven  for  15  or  20  rain- 


•     PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  171 

utes,  then  open  the  door  and  let  stand  10  minutes  longer  to  dry 
out  slowly.  Remove  from  the  paper  when  cold,  take  out  the 
moist  inside  carefully,  fill  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flav- 
ored, or  ice  cream,  and  put  gently  together. 

MIRONTON  OF  APPLES. 

Pare,  scald  and  mash  J  dozen  apples,  and  pile  high  on  the 
serving  dish.  Boil  1  teaspoon  grated  lemon  peel  with  2  or  3 
^tablespoons  sugar  in  a  cup  water;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs 
and  the  white  of  one,  i  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  and 
1  tablespoon  brandy.  Stir  till  quite  smooth.  Pour  over  the  apples, 
beat  1  egg  white  stiff,  spread  this  over  the  top.  sift  some  powdered 
sugar  over  it,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  10  or  15  minutes. 

ORANGE  CREAM,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Martin. 

Dissolve  half  a  box  gelatin  in  warm  water,  add  2  tumblers 
orange  juice,  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  sugar  to  taste. 
When  nearly  cold,  add  a  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  put  in  a 
mould  on  the  ice. 

ORANGE  CREAM,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    John    Elliott.     ' 

Heat  1  pint  sweet  cream  in  a  double  boiler ;  when  at  the  boil- 
ing point,  stir  in  1  cup  white  sugar  beaten  up  with  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange;  heat  a  moment 
longer,  then  take  off  and  stir  till  cold.  Put  in  small  glasses.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff  with  1  tablespoon  sugar,  and  drop  a 
spoonful  in   each  glass. 

ORANGE  CREAM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   Viola  Poling. 

Moisten  3  tablespoons  cornstarch  in  part  of  a  i)int  of  milk ; 
beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  a  half  cup  sugar;  scald  the  remainder 
of  the  milk  and  add  to  -it  the  grated  rind  of  1  orange,  the  corn- 
starch, eggs  and  sugar  and  the  orange  juice  in  order.  When  cooked 
pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  from  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  -^  cup  sugar.  Brown  in  oven_j  and  serve 
cold. 

ORANGE  FLOAT. 

Mrs.    Morgan    Griffith. 

Take  1  quart  water,  the  juice  and  pulp  of  2  lemons,  and  1 
coffee  cup  sugar.  When  boiling  hot  add  4  tablespoons  cornstarch. 
Let  boil  lo  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  cool,  pour  it 
over  4  or  5  sliced  oranges  in  a  glass  dish,  and  over  the  top  spread 
the  beaten  whites  of  3   eggs,  sweetened  and   flavored   with   vanilla. 


172  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

ORANGE  FRITTERS. 

Peel,  divide  in  sections  and  skin  3  juicy  oranges.  Soak  for 
15  minutes  in  1  tablespoon  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  rum,  or  any 
preferred  flavoring.  Dip  in  a  good  fritter  batter  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.     Drain,  dust  witb  powdered  sugar  and  serve  hot. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

Peel  six  oranges,  cutting  off  all  the  white  rind.  Remove  all 
the  seeds,  and  slice  them  into  a  mould  or  a  glass  dish.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar.  Soak  J  box  gelatin  in  ^  pint  cold  water  one  hour,  add 
1^  pints  boiling  water  and  sugar  "to  the  taste.  Flavor  with  the 
juice  of  2  lemons.  When  thoroughly  dissolved,  strain  over  the 
oranges,  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

ORANGE  ROLY  POLY  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  .  Frank    Thomas. 

Prepare  a  dough  as  for  apple  dumplings,  and  roll  into  an  ob- 
long sheet.  Pare,  slice  and  seed  good,  sweet  oranges,  spread 
thickly  over  the  paste,  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  and  a  little  grated 
yellow  peel ;  roll  up  and  press  tlie  edges  down  with  cold  water  to 
keep  in  the  juice.  Boil  in  a  floured  cloth  about  2  hours,  and  serve 
with  lemon  sauce. 

ORANGE  SHORTCAKE. 

Mrs.    T.    A.    Sherrard. 

Slice  6  oranges  very  thin  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 
Take  1  pint  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
yolk  of  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  1 
cup  milk.  Mix  and  bake  in  a  square  tin.  When  done  split  the 
cake,  spread  the  oranges  between  the  layers,  and  serve  v;ith  sugar 
and   cream.      Pineapple  may   be   mixed   with   the  oranges. 

ORANGE  SNOWBALLS. 

Boil  rice  for  10  minutes,  drain  and  cool ;  pare  several  oranges 
closely,  cutting  off  all  white  rind.  Butter  and  flour  as  many  small 
pudding  bags  as  you  have  oranges,  spread  them  with  rice,  put  an 
orange  in  each,  tie  up  and  boil  1  hour ;  turn  out  on  a  pretty  dish, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  candy ;  and  serve  with  sauce  or 
sweetened   cream. 

PAIN  DE  PRAISES. 

The    Countess    of    Aberdeen. 

1  quart  of  fresh  strawberries,  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve  into 
a  bowl;  add  1  ounce  of  melted  gelatin  and  2  ounces  granulated 
sugar.  Stir  well  and  pour  into  chilled  moulds ;  set  on  ice.  Turn 
out  of  the  moulds,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

PARISIAN  CHARLOTTE. 

Cut  the  centre  out  of  a  1  pound  stale  sponge  cake,  leaving 
the  bottom  and  sides  about  I  inch  thick.  Crumb  the  cake  with 
}  pound  macaroons,  and   mix   with   1   cup  grated  cocoanut.     Cover 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  173 

\  box  gelatin  with  cold  water  and  let  soak  \  hour.  P.ring  1  pint 
cream  to  the  boil  in  a  double  boiler,  beat  4  eggs  until  light  with  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  stir  into  the  cream  until  it  thickens ;  add  the 
gelatin,  take  from  the  fire,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  the  cake 
crumbs,  and  turn  into  a  basin;  set  the  basin  in  a  pan  of  cracked 
ice,  stir  continually  until  beginning  to  thicken  ;  add  i  pint  cream 
whipped,  mixing  thoroughly.  Pour  the  mixture  into  the  shell  of 
sponge  cake,  and  pul  over  the  ice  to  harden.  Serve  with  Sabayon 
sauce. 

PEACH  BAVARIAN   CREA^r. 

Cover  \  box  gelatin  with  1  cup  cold  water,  and  let  soak  ^ 
hour.  Press  1  pint  can  peaches  through  the  colander;  if  fresh 
peaches,  stew  and  sweeten  them.  Stir  the  gelatin  over  boiling 
water  until  dissolved,  strain.  Mix  the  peaches  and  gelatin  in  a 
bowl,  put  it  on  ice  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add 
1  pint  whipped  cream.  Stir  well  and  put  into  a  mould  in  a  cold 
place  to  harden.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  around  the  base. 
Apricots  or  large  plums  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  peaches. 

PEACH  FOAM. 

Peel  and  cut  into  small  pieces  8  or  4  ripe  peaches,  to  make 
1  cup.  Put  in  a  bowl  with  J  cup  powdered  sugar  and  the  wdiite 
of  1  egg.  Beat  with  a  fork  for  ^  hour  until  it  is  a  perfectly 
smooth,   velvety   cream.      Serve   in   glasses,  quite  cold. 

PEACH   PUDDING,   NO.   1. 

Cut  3  slices  of  bread  \  inch  thick ;  cut  off  the  crusts  and  dice 
them.  Cut  up  1  pint  canned  peaches  or  the  same  amount  fresh 
peaches  into  \  inch  dice.  Mix  these  together,  adding  a  few  drops 
of  almond  flavoring  and  vanilla.  2  tablespoons  Sultana  raisins 
may  be  added  if  at  hand.  Fill  a  pudding  mould  with  the  mixture, 
pour  in  a  good  boiled  custard  to  the  height  of  the  pudding,  place 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  half  as  deep  as  the  mould,  and  let  steam 
in  a  hot  oven  for  \  hour.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with 
a  hot  rum  sauce,  or  any  hot  liquid  sauce. 

PEACH   PUDDING,   NO.   2. 

Miss    Mary    Burns. 

Beat  together  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  1  t§^,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  pint  flour,  and  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder.  Slice  6  peaches.  Pour  half  the  batter  into  a  buttered  pan, 
lay  in  the  peaches,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  and  cover  with  the  rest 
of  the  batter.     Serve  with  a  hot  liquid  sauce. 

Whole  apples,  peeled,  cored  and  the  centres  filled  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon  are  very  nice  in  place  of  the  peaches. 

PEACH  SHORTCAKE. 

Mrs.     Isabel     Hall     Tedrow. 

Mix  I  cup  butter  with  1  quart  flour;  add  2  heaping  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  cup  sugar,  and  beat  in  1  egg;  mix  all  together 


174  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

with  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Bake  in  layers.  Slice 
the  peaches  and  let  stand  awhile  covered  with  sugar ;  put  between 
the  layers  and  on  top :  serve  with  whipped  cream.  Canned  peaches 
may  be  used,  or  any  kind  of   fruit. 

PEACH  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    May    Livingston. 

Soak  I  pint  tapioca  in  cold  water  for  3  hours  ;  then  set  on  the 
stove  until  it  boils  ;  sweeten  with  white  sugar ;  peel  and  slice  ripe 
peaches  to  nearly  fill  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  white 
sugar,  pour  over  them  the  tapioca,  and  bake  slowly  for  1  hour. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

For  Apple  Tapioca  the  apples  are  cored  whole,  and  the  cavities 
filled   with  sugar. 

PEAR  CHARLOTTE. 

Butter  a  quart  pudding  mould.  Trim  the  crust  off  a  large 
loaf  of  bread,  and  cut  a  piece  the  height  of  the  mould.  Cut  into 
slices  \  inch  thick.  Put  one  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould.  Cut 
each  of  the  others  into  -1  lengthwise  strips,  dip  each  in  melted 
butter  and  arrange  around  the  mould  standing  up  and  close  to- 
gether. Peel,  cut  in  half  and  core  8  good  sized  pears;  put  in  a 
frying  pan  with  1  ounce  butter,  2  ounces  sugar  and  a  little  vanilla, 
roll  them  over  and  cook  about  8  minutes.  Fill  the  mould  with 
the  pears  and  their  liquor.  Cover  with  a  whole  slice  of  the  bread 
dipped  in  butter.  Put  in  a  slow  oven  for  1^  hours.  Turn  out  on 
a  dish,  pour  a  rum  sauce  around  it,  and  serve  hot.  Any  highly 
seasoned   sauce   would  do. 


PEAR  COMPOTE. 

Pare,  cut  in  halves  and  core.  Boil  the  pears  in  a  syrup  as 
rich  as  is  liked  until  clear;  take  them  out  and  boil  down  the  syrup 
till  it  will  jelly.  A  few  peelings  may  be  added  to  the  jelly  to 
give  a  richer  color,  and  taken  out  again.  Pour  over  the  pears 
and  serve  cold.  If  used  for  dessert,  plain  or  whipped  cream  is  a 
good   addition. 

Apples,  quinces  and  peaches  also  are  used  for  compotes. 
Apples  may  be  cored  whole.  Fruit  that  is  not  ripe  or  good  enough 
to  serve  raw  makes  good  compotes. 

PINEAPPLE   CREAM. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Pour  a  little  melted  raspberry  or  strawberry  jelly  m  the  bot- 
tom of  a  mould  and  allow  it  to  set :  soak  \  ounce  gelatin  in  \  cup 
milk;  stir  over  the  fire  till  thoroughly  melted.  Whip  1  pint  cream, 
add  \  pound  sugar  and  \  pound  chopped,  preserved  pineapple ; 
stir  in  the  gelatin;  when  "the  raspberry  jelly  is  stifif  pour  in  the 
cream,  and  set  in  cracked  ice  to  harden. 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  175 

PINEAPPLK   PUDDIXG,    NO.    I. 

Dice  4  ounces  fresh  or  canned  pineapple  ;  melt  l^  ounces  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  rub  in  2  ounces  sifted  flour,  add  1  gill  hot  milk, 
and  heat  for  3  minutes.  Remove,  add  the  pineapple  and  2  ounces 
sugar,  and  one  by  one  beat  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Lastly  add 
the  stifif  whites  of  the  eggs  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  quart  pudding  mould,  set  in  the  oven  in  boiling  water,  and 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper  for  35  minutes.  Unmould  on  a  hot 
dish,  decorate  with  slices  of  fresh  pineapple,  and  serve  with  any 
hot  sauce  desired. 

PINEAPPLE   PUDDING,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Edward   Daugherty.jj 

Dissolve  4  tablespoons  cornstarch  in  the  juice  from  1  can  pine- 
apple ;  add  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  and  1  quart  boiling  water ; 
cook  till  it  looks  clear,  then  add  the  pineapple,  and  take  from  the 
fire.     Serve  cold  with  cream. 

PINEAPPLE  TRIFLE. 

Pare,  cut  out  the  eyes  and  slice  a  ripe  pineapple.  Sugar,  and 
let  stand  till  it  is  dissolved.  Make  holes  in  a  stale  sponge  cake, 
and  pour  in  as  much  syrup  as  it  will  absorb ;  put  slices  of  the 
fruit  on  top  and  around  the  cake  :  cover  with  whipped  cream,  and 
sprinkle  with  a   few  chopped  almonds,  candied  cherries,  etc. 

PLUM    DUFF. 
Mrs.    George  Leyshon. 

Mix  together  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  molasses, 
1  cup  sweet  milk  with  a  teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk,  1  teaspoon  each 
of  salt,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  1  cup  suet  chopped  fine.  1  pound 
raisins,  1  pound  currants  well  floured.  Steam  in  a  well  greased 
pan  or  mould  2:]   hours.     This  makes  2  good  sized  puddings. 

PLUM  PUDDING,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lawrence. 

1  large  cup  each  of  suet,  raisins,  currants,  bread  crumbs  and 
flour:  U  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  citron,  1  nutmeg.  ^  teaspoon  each  of 
cloves,  allspice,  salt  and  baking  soda.  Mix  all  dry :  then  beat  2 
or  3  eggs  and  make  a  stiff  batter  with  water  or  cold  tea.  Grease 
a  pudding  bag  and  sprinkle  flour  over  it,  or  grease  a  bowl  or  tin 
mould. 

PLUM  PUDDING,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Ewing. 

Mix  together  f  pound  grated  bread  crumbs,  ^  pound  suet 
chopped  fine,  H  pounds  stoned  raisins,  i  pound  currants,  1  pound 
brown  sugar,  10  eggs  beaten  toTetber,  1  piece  citron  chopped  fine, 
juice  and  grated  yellow  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  grated  nutmeg,  and  1 
wine  glass  brandy;  steam  from  4  to  G  hours.  Serve  with  a  hot 
sauce. 


176  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

PLUM  PUDDING,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.    John    L.    Williams,    Jr. 

Mix  1  cup  beef  suet  chopped  very  fine  with  1  cup  white  sugar, 

1  grated   nutmeg,    1   teaspoon   cinnamon,   a   pinch   of   salt,   1   table- 
spoon butter,  1  cup  each  of  ligs,  raisins  and  currants,  2  good  cook- 

•  ing  apples  chopped  fine,  2  eggs,  |  cup  N.  O.  molasses,  ^  cup  cream, 

2  cups  flour,  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  the  flour.     Steam 

3  hours,  and  serve  hot  with  brandy  sauce. 

PRUNE  WHIP. 

Miss     Fannie     Muniaugh. 

Stew  14  large  prunes  without  sugar,  chop  and  mix  with  i  cup 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  and  the  well  beaten  whites  of  4 
eggs.  Put  in  a  baking  dish  and  set  in  water  inside  the  oven.  Bake 
and  serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream,  or  a  custard  made  from 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

PUFF  PUDDING. 

Miss   Mary   Gardner. 

4  eggs  beaten  separately ;  to  the  yolks  add  6  tablespoons  flour, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  slowly  pour  in  2^  cups  milk,  mixing  very 
smoothly.  Lastly  add  the  whites  of  egg.  put  in  a  greased  pan, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  ^  hour.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Pitzer. 

Beat  together  1  pint  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks 
of  4  beaten  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  1  quart  milk.  Put  into  a  pudding  dish  and 
bake  until  done  —  not  longer.  Spread  over  the  pudding  a  layer 
of  jelly  or  preserved  damsons;  make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  and  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Put  this  lightly  over  the  pudding  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Eat 
cold  with  cream. 

RAISIN  CREAM. 

Mrs.    Henry    Spencer. 

Boil  1  cup  raisins  in  1  pint  cold  water  15  minutes.  Dissolve 
1  tablespoon  gelatin  in  ^  cup  water,  then  add  with  ^  cup  sugar  and 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  to  the  raisins.  Pour  into  a  mould  and  set  on 
ice  3  hours.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  sugar  and 
vanilla. 

RAISIN  PUFFS. 
Mrs.    John    Williamson. 

Mix  2  well  beaten  eggs,  i  cup  butter,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  and  1  cup 
raisins  chopped  very  fine.  Steam  |  hour  in  buttered  cups.  Serve 
with  cream  sauce. 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  177 

RASPBERRY  SOUFFLfiE. 

Put  1  glass  raspberry  jelly  in  a  bowl  with  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
and  ^  teaspoon  orange  extract.  Mix  well  together  for  5  minutes, 
then  beat  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  later  the  stiff  whites  of  5 
eggs.  Pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  for  20  minutes.  Re- 
move, sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  the  top,  and  serve 
immediately.     Other  jellies  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

RENAISSANCE   PUDDING. 

Cut  into  small  dice  2  gimces  of  plain  stale  cake.  Mix  with 
chopped,  candied  fruits  and  slices  of  preserves.  Pour  over  them 
1  tablespoon  maraschino,  or  any  delicate  wine.  Put  in  a  pudding 
mould,  pour  over  a  good,  uncooked  vanilla  custard,  put  in  a  pan 
in  a  hot  oven,  pour  in  boiling  water  to  half  the  height  of  the 
mould,  and  steam  for  30  minutes.  Turn  on  a  dish  and  serve  hot 
with   a  Sabayon  sauce. 

RENNET  CUSTARD,  OR  JUNKET. 

Stir  1  tablespoon  sugar  into  1  pint  milk,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
or  other  flavoring,  pour  into  a  glass  dish,  and  stir  in  1  teaspoon 
rennet.  Cover  and  put  in  a  warm  place,  not  hot,  till  it  is  set.  Grate 
nutmeg  over  the  top,  and  serve  cold. 

Junket  tablets  can  be  bought  cheap,  and  are  very  convenient 
for  making  this. 

RHUBARB    PUDDING. 

Prepare  the  rhubarb  as  for  pie,  and  fill  the  bottom  of  a  bak- 
ing dish.  Sprinkle  with  1  cup  sugar.  Make  a  batter  of  1  cup  sour 
milk,  2  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  h  teaspoon  soda,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  and  flour  enough  for  a  cake  batter.  Spread  over  the  rhubarb 
and  bake.  When  done,  turn  upside  down,  stir  up  the  rhubarb, 
and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  This  is  a  good  way  to  make  apple 
and    fruit   pies    for   those   who    do    not   like   under  crusts. 

RICE  AND  RAISINS. 

Glasgow   "Exchange". 

Wash  4  ounces  rice,  stone  8  ounces  raisins,  mix  well  and  tie 
loosely  in  a  scalded  and  floured  pudding  bag.  Drop  in  boiling 
water  and  boil  2  hours.  Turn  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
and  serve  with  hot  syrup  or  a  hot  pudding  sauce. 

RICE  BALLS. 

Mould  hot,  boiled  rice  in  small  cups.  When  cold  turn  out  on 
a  dish,  take  a  spoonful  of  rice  from  the  centre  of  each  ball,  put 
instead  some  tart  preserve,  and  pour  a  custard  over  the  balls.  The 
rice  should  be  slightly  sweetened  and  flavored  before  taking  from 
the  stove. 

12 


178  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

RICE  PUDDING,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Davis. 

Soak  1  cup  of  rice  15  minutes,  then  boil  J  hour ;  drain,  add  1 
cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs.  Stir  all  together  with  1  pint  milk,  put  into  a  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  little  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  until  firmly  set.  Make 
an  icing  of  the  whites  of  egg  with  1  tablespoon  sugar,  spread  over 
the  top  and  brown. 

RICE  PUDDING,  NO.  2. 
L.  A. 

1  cup  rice,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  and  a  half  raisins,  a  small  piece 
butter,  a  little  salt  and  3  pints  milk,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated. 
Bake  2  hours,  and  serve  with  sauce. 

RICE  PUDDING,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.   Jack   Moore. 

Beat  up  in  a  pudding  dish,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  cooked 
rice,  a  pinch  of  salt,  sugar  to  taste,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and 
vanilla  extract  and  1  quart  milk.  Bake  in  a  good  oven  about  J 
hour.     Serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream. 

POOR  MAN'S  RICE  PUDDING. 

Mrs.     Newton     Irvin. 

Beat  up  3  tablespoons  rice  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  2  eggs. 
Add  1  quart  sweet  milk,  sugar  and  flavoring  to  suit  the  taste. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  2^  hours. 

SCOTCH  FIG   PUDDING. 

Mrs.    H.    C.    Begland. 

Wash  and  soak  ^  pound  cooking  figs ;  put  2  ounces  white  sugar 
into  a  saucepan  with  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  the  strained 
juice  of  a  whole  lemon,  and  1  large  breakfast  cup  of  water.  Let 
the  syrup  boil  a  few  minutes,  add  the  figs  and  let  stew  till  tender. 
Butter  a  pudding  dish  well,  split  the  figs  and  line  the  basin  ;  chop 
:he  rest  of  the  figs.  Dice  4  ounces  bread,  put  in  a  basin  with  the 
chopped  figs,  4  ounces  sugar,  and  the  rest  of  the  grated  rind.  Boil 
1  large  cup  milk,  and  pour  over  them.  Beat  2  eggs  and  add ;  also 
any  flavoring  liked,  and  pour  into  the  pudding  dish  ;  cover  with  a 
greased  paper  or  pudding  cloth  and  steam  1  hour.  Turn  out  on 
a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  by  boiling  down  the  water 
the  figs  were  stewed  in  and  adding  1  tablespoon  red  currant  jelly. 

SNOW  CREAM. 

Mrs.     J.     Williamson. 

Grate  the  white  meat  of  1  cocoanut.  Heap  it  up  on  a  glass 
di.sh  in  the  centre.  Beat  the  whites  of  5  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
4  large  spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  a  large  spoonful  rosewater  or 
pineapple-  essence,  and  1  pint  whipped  cream.  Put  this  around 
the  cocoanut,  and  serve  with  it. 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS.  179 

SNOW  EGGS. 

Mrs.    John     L.    Jones. 

To  the  whites  of  5  eggs  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  whip  to  a 
ver}'  stiff  froth,  gradually  adding  1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar, 
and  a  few  drops  of  flavoring.  Scald  1  quart  milk  in  a  large  pan. 
Shape  whites  in  a  tablespoon,  drop  a  few  at  a  time  in  the  hot 
milk,  and  turn  until  cooked.  Lift  out  with  a  skimmer  and  lay 
on  a  glass  dish.  When  all  are  cooked,  make  a  custard  with  the 
yolks,  hot  milk  and  3  tablespoons  sugar  and  pour  around  the  eggs. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatin  soaked  in  ^  cup  cold  water 
and  dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling  water ;  1  cup  sugar,  and  \  cup  lemon 
juice;  mix,  strain,  and  set  aside  to  cool;  stir  occasionally  and 
when  quite  thick,  beat  with  a  wire  spoon  till  frothy;  add  the  stiff 
whites  of  3  eggs,  and  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape. 
Mould,  and  serve  on  a  dish  with  boiled  custard  around  it. 

SOUR  CREAM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   R.   B.  Arnold. 

1  pint  sour  cream  mixed  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  10 
tablespoons  sifted  flour,  and  h  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  soda. 
Beat  the  whites  of  egg  stiff  and  add-  last.  Will  bake  in  a  few 
minutes.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce :  1  cup  sugar  and  J  cup 
butter  creamed.     Flavor  and  add   1   cup  sweet  cream. 

STRAWBERRY  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

Make  precisely  as  Peach  Bavarian  Cream  if  the  canned  fruit 
or  juice  is  used.  If  ripe  fruit,  take  1  quart,  press  through  a  sieve, 
add  1  cup  sugar,  and  proceed  as  with  peaches,  but  do  not  cook. 
Raspberry  and  Pineapple  Bavarian  Creams  are  made  the  same 
w'ay,  but  require  less  sugar. 

STRAWBERRY  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  good  baking  powder  biscuit  dough;  roll  out  very  thin; 
cut  in  rounds ;  place  strawberries  on  each  round ;  fold  the  edges 
over  together,  put  in  a  buttered  pan,  brush  with  milk,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  15  minutes.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  Jessica 
Sauce. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE,  NO.   1. 

Miss  Johanna  Feeney. 

Make  a  rich  pie  dough,  using  1  pint  flour,  h  cup  butter,  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  a  ])inch  of  salt  and  milk  enough  for  a 
soft  dough.  Roll  out  quickly  about  1  inch  in  thickness,  put  into 
a  greased,  square  baking  pan.  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  20 
minutes.  Take  out,  split  in  halves,  and  spread  each  half  lightly 
with  butter.     Have  ready  1  quart  strawberries,  stemmed,  and  wait- 


180  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

ing  in  a  bowl,  cut  or  mashed  slightly  and  sweetened  to  taste.  Lay 
the  lower  half  of  the  cake  on  a  large  plate,  put  half  the  berries 
on  this,  cover  with  the  other  half,  and  spread  that  too  with  the 
berries.      Serve   with    cream   in    a    cream    pitcher. 

It  may  also  be  made  with  cake  dough  and  covered  with  whipped 
cream. 

STRAWBERRY   SHORTCAKE,  NO.  2. 

Miss     Tessie     Hinzy. 

Sift  1^  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  1|-  cups  flour,  and  rub  in 
a  good  sized  lump  of  butter.  Roll  out  thin,  and  cut  into  2  layers 
the  size  of  your  pan.  Put  one  in  the  pan,  butter  it,  put  the  second 
one  on  top,  .and  bake.  When  done,  take  them  apart  and  put  sug- 
ared berries  between  and  on  top. 

STRAW   PUDDING. 

Mrs.    C.    H.    Furman. 

Make  some  good  noodles  and  cut  very  fine;  butter  a  pudding 
dish  well,  put  in  a  layer  of  noodles,  then  a  layer  of  sugar  and 
cinnamon,  cocoanut  and  raisins ;  beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  dot  with  it,  make  4  layers,  ending  up  with  the  eggs. 
Bake   in   a   slow   oven   1    hour. 

SUET   DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.     Isabel     Lawson. 

Sift  together   1   cup  flour  and  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder;   add 

1  cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  finely  chopped  suet,  h;  cup  sugar, 

2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  pint  milk  and  a  large  pinch  salt.  Form  into 
a  smooth  batter  and  drop  it  by  tablespoonfuls  into  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing milk,  three  or  four  at  a  time.  When  done  dish  and  pour 
over  them  the  milk  they  were  boiled  in.     A  Danish  dish. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

Miss   Mabel   West. 

Rub  together  h  cup  chopped  suet  and  i-  cup  sugar ;  add  2  table- 
spoons molasses,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg ;  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  ^  cup  sour  milk ;  1  cup  each  of 
currants  and  raisins  ;  J  cup  chopped  English  walnuts,  and  2  table- 
spoons brandy.     Add   flour  to   make   a  stiff  batter.      Boil   or   steam 

3  hours. 

SUET   PUDDING   (PLAIN). 

Mrs.     David     Evans. 

1  cup  chopped  suet.  .]-  cup  molasses,  .}  cup  brown  sugar,  2  eggs, 
1  cup  sour  milk,  h  teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk,  }  teaspoon  salt,  2J 
cups   flour. 

Pour  in  a  greased  mould,  cover  and  steam  U  hours.  Serve 
with   lemon   sauce. 


PUDDINGS   AXD   DESSERTS.  181 

SWEDISH   PL: DOING. 

Mix  well  in  a  ])o\vl  1  tablespoon  thick  honey,  2  ounces  bread 
crumbs,  1  tables];oon  sugar,  \  of  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  and 
the  juice,  1  egg.  h  ounce  Jjutter,  1  ounce  flour,  J  cup  cold  milk, 
and  1  tablespoon  kirsch.  (Cherry  juice  witli  a  little  almond  ex- 
tract would  take  tlie  place  of  the  kirsch.)  Mix  thoroughly,  then 
add  the  beaten  white  of  2  eggs,  and  put  in  a  pudding  mould.  Put 
in  a  deep  pan  of  boiling  water  in  the  oven  for  30  minutes.  Turn 
out  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  hot  maple  syrup  poured  over  it. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDIXC. 

Pare  ^  poinul  sweet  potatoes  and  grate  them;  beat  '{  cup 
butter  to  a  cream  with  1  cup  sugar,  and  add  8  well  beaten  eggs ; 
stir  in  the  potatoes,  the  juice  and  rind'  of  1  lemon  and  1  orange, 
\  teaspoon  mace,  1  even  teaspoon  cinnamon,  and  }  teaspoon  salt; 
turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  f  hour. 
Serve  hot  or  cold  with  sauce. 

^  cup  sherry  and  2  tablespoons  brandy  are  a  good  addition, 
if  you  use  liquor. 

SYLLABUB. 

Add  1  gill  wine,  the  juice  of  3  lemons,  the  beaten  whites  of  6 
eggs,  and  sugar  to  taste  to  1  quart  of  cream  which  has  been  well 
chilled.     Whip  stiffly  and  serve  in  glasses  with   cake. 

TAPIOCA. 

Mrs.    J.    W.   Brumage. 

Instead  of  soaking  tapioca  before  cooking,  put  directly  into 
boiling  water  or  milk,  and  it  will  have  less  of  a  starchy  taste. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Joe    Winefordner. 

Soak  1  small  cup  of  tapioca  J  hour  on  back  of  stove,  drain, 
put  in  a  double  boiler  with  H  pints  milk  and  boil  30  minutes. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  hard,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
and  vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring.  Pour  the  pudding  into  the  eggs, 
stir  well,  turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake  30  minutes  in 
a  slow  oven.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  flavoring  as  desired,  and  put  back  in  the 
oven  to  brown.  This  pudding  is  good  with  a  meringue  top  without 
the  baking. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.   James   Monahan. 

Soak  6  tablespoons  tapioca  6  hours.  Scald  1  quart  milk,  then 
add  the  tapioca,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  k  cup  sugar.  Stir  and 
cook  until  tiiick.  Remove  from  the  lire,  flavor  with  lemon  extract, 
and  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.     Serve  hot  or  cold, 


182  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

TAPIOCA   PUDDING,    NO.  3. 

Mrs.    Kemper. 

Soak  1  cup  tapioca  over  night ;  add  1  cup  sugar,  1^  cups  water, 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  and  cook  until  clear.  Add 
the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Pour  into  a  dish,  and  spread 
over  the  top  a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  3  tablespoons 
sugar,   and   serve  very  cold   with   cream. 

TRIFLE. 

Soak  sponge  'cake  in  sweet  wine.  Wlien  soaked  drain  off  the 
excess.  Make  a  custard  of  a  pint  of  cream,  yolks  of  3  eggs  and 
white  of  1,  sugar  to  taste  and  grated  lemon  peel.  When  cool,  pour 
over  the  cake,  beat  the  whites  witli  sugar  and  lemon  juice  and 
pile  up  over  the  dish. 

If  you  do  not  use  wine,  orange  juice  will  do,  also  any  stale, 
delicate  cake  without  icing. 

VANILLA   CUSTARD. 

Beat  together  briskly  2  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  sugar ;  add  1 
cup  milk  and  a  few  drops  vanilla.  L^sc  it  uncooked  to  add  to 
bread  puddings. 

WASHINGTON    PUDDING. 

Mrs.    H.   B.    Denman. 

Cut  cubes  of  dry  bread  tvyice  as  thick  as  a  thick  slice  of 
bread.  Cut  off  all  crusts.  Soak  for  several  hours  in  a  mixture 
of  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  quart  milk,  sweetened  to  taste,  and 
flavored  with  nutmeg  and  vanilla.  Fry  in  a  skillet  with  butter, 
turning  the  cakes,  or  in  a  deep  pan  of  boiling  fat  or  lard.  Serve 
hot  with  a  large  lump  of  hard   sauce  on   each. 

WHIPPED  CREAM. 

Mrs.    Wm.   Horden. 

Chill  ^  pint  thick  cream,  and  add  to  it  l\  tablespoons  pulver- 
ized sugar,  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put  in  a  bowl  set  in  a  pan  of 
cracked  ice,  and  beat  with  a  wire  egg  beater  until  quite  stiff.  Pour 
off  any  unwhipped  cream  in  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  Set  in  a 
cold  place  until  wanted.  A  syllabub  churn  can  be  used,  if  pre- 
ferred, or  if  neither  is  at  hand,  a  couple  of  silver  forks  will  answer. 

Whipped  cream  is  used  as  a  sauce  for  various  jellies  and  deli- 
cate desserts,  or  with  rich,  frozen  desserts,  or  served  by  itself  as 
a  dessert  with  cake.  Flavored  with  many  liquors  or  flavorings,  it 
takes  the  name,  as  a  sauce,  of  the  liquor  used.  Packed  in  a  mould 
and   frozen   for  several   hours,   it   makes   every   variety  of   mousse. 

WIGWAM. 

"The   Housekeeper's   Friend." 

Open  1  pound  of  lady  fingers  and  spread  on  a  dish  ;  cover  them 
with   currant   jelly,   and   on   the   jelly  spread   meringue,   then   other 


PUDDINGS   AXD   DESSERTS.  183 

layers  of  lady  fingers,  jelly  and  meringue;  make  each  layer  a  little 
smaller  in  order  to  have  a  pyramid.  Cover  the  whole  with  merin- 
gue and  put  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  brown.  Do  not  make  the 
meringue   too   stiff. 

WINE  JELLY. 

Mrs.     A.     W.     Pitzer. 

1  box  Cox's  gelatin  soaked  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  1  hour. 
Then  add  1  good  pint  of  sugar,  2  quarts  boiling  water,  juice  of 
2  lemons,  and  1  pint  sherry  wine.  Put  in  an  egg  shell,  let  all  come 
to  the  boil,  then  strain  and  put  in  a  cold  place  12  hours.  This 
will  serve   10  or  12  persons. 

In    summer,  use    less   boiling    water. 

YANKEE. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

Cut  medium  slices  of  stale  bread,  cutting  off  crusts  or  not,  as 
preferred ;  butter  on  both  sides,  and  fry  in  molasses.  Serve  hot. 
The  molasses  must  be  hot  when  the  bread  is  put  in,  or  it  will  soak 
in  too  much  ;  but  it  must  not  be  fried  too  fast  for  it  should  get 
gummy  and  most  particularly  not  bum.  Syrups  left  over  from 
preserves  and   rich,   sweet   pickles   make   a   good   imitation  Yankee. 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 


BRANDY   SAUCE. 

Boil  li  tablespoons  granulated  sugar  in  i  cup  water,  with  the 
rind  of  i  lemon ;  add  ^  tablespoon  butter,  and  2r}  tablespoons 
brandy,  remove,  and  beat  briskly  a  few  minutes.  Take  out  the 
lemon  and   serve.     Use   with   steamed  puddings. 

CARAMEL   SAUCE. 

Put  1  cup  sugar  in  a  saucepan  over  a  hot  fire  until  it  begins 
to  turn  brown,  constantly  stirring.  Add  1  cup  hot  water,  let  boil 
2  minutes  and  take  up. 

CHERRY   SAUCE. 

Chop  15  candied  or  preserved  cherries  not  very  fine,  add  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  same  amount  currant  jelly  and  f  cup  hot  water: 
boil  8  minutes,  and  serve  hot.  1  tablespoon  maraschino  and  1 
tablespoon  kirsch  or  cherry  brandy  is  a  nice  addition.  Good  with 
hot  puddings   and  over  vanilla  ice   cream. 

CHOCOLATE   SAUCE. 

Melt  2  ounces  grated  chocolate  in  a  saucepan  ;  add  1  cup  hot 
milk  and  boil  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  stirring.  Beat  together  2 
heaping  tablespoons  sugar  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  \  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Still  beating,  add  the  chocolate  slowly,  turn  all  back  into 
the  hot  saucepan,  set  over  the  fire  for  5  minutes,  still  beating. 
Strain  and  serve  hot.  Use  over  plain  puddings,  French  pancakes, 
etc. 

CIDER  SAUCE. 

Mrs.     B.     James. 

Mix  2  tablespoons  butter  with  an  even  tablespoon  flour :  add 
]  cup  maple  or  brown  sugar,  and  }  cup  boiled  cider;  add  ^  cup 
boiling  water,   stir  and   let   simmer  a   few   moments  and   serve  hot. 

CLARET  SABAYON. 

Filippini. 

Beat  until  stiff  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  the  white  of  1,  2  table- 
spoons white  sugar,  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  \  lemon,  and  f  cup 
claret.  Strain  through  a  cloth  into  a  saucepan  and  heat  very  hot 
without   boiling.     Use   with   hot   puddings. 

184 


PUDDING   SAUCES.  185 

COFFEE   SAUCE. 

Grind  1  tablespoon  freshl_v  roasted  coffee  and  add  it  to  \  cup 
boiling  milk.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  let  boil  2  minutes ;  stand 
aside  for  10  minutes.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  strain  the  coft'ee  through  a  cloth  into  the  egg,  add 
i  cup  cream,  beat  well  and  put  over  the  fire  stirring  hard  for 
five  minutes.  Do  not  let  boil.  Strain  if  necessary  when  taken  up, 
and   serve   immediately   with    a   hot   pudding,   or   French   pancakes. 

CREAM   SAUCE,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.    A.    W.    Pitzer. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  h  cup  cream,  season  with 
grated  nutmeg,  and  let  just  come  to  a  boil. 

CREAM   SAUCE.   XO.  2. 

Mrs.     Rorer. 

Dissolve  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  in  1  pint  rich  cream, 
add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  (or  2  tablespoons  sherry,  if  wine  is  liked), 
and  1  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  in  well  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  till 
wanted. 

DIP. 

Mrs.     George     Pargeon. 

1  cup  sweet  milk :  when  at  the  boil  add  1  tablespoon  flour, 
rubbed  with  1  small  lump  butter,  about  2  tablespoons  sugar,  and 
a  little  grated  nutmeg.     If  too  thick,  thin  with  boiling  water. 

FAIRY  BREATH  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Ewing. 

Beat  togethe'i  until  very  light  1  cup  butter  and  2  cups  powdered 
sugar,  add  a  little  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice,  1  wine  glass  sherry,  1 
of  brandy,  and  ^  pint  boiling  water  just  before  serving. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  granulated  or  pulverized  sugar  with  \  the 
quantity  of  butter.  Add  vanilla  to  taste  and  a  little  nutmeg  or 
ground  mace,  dusting  the  top  with  nutmeg.  This  can  be  flavored 
with  lemon  instead,  or  with  wine  or  liquor,  according  to  the  de- 
mands of   the   hot   pudding   with    which    it   is   served. 

JESSICA   SAUCE. 

John     D.     Martin. 

Cream  together  1  cuj)  butter,  and  1  cup  sugar,  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  white  of  1  egg  and  1  (|uart  fresh  strawberries  mashed. 
Serve  with  cottage  pudding,  etc. 


186  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

LEMON  SAUCE,  NO.   1. 

Scald  1  cup  milk,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  efeg  mixed  with 
\  cup  powdered  sugar ;  cook  and  stir  for  3  minutes.  When  cold, 
stir  in  the  juice  and  grated  yellow  rind  of  1  lemon,  and,  when 
ready  to  serve,  the  stiff  whites  of  2  eggs. 

LEMON  SAUCE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  Mark  Stecker. 

Beat  1  cup  sugar  and  h  cup  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  gradually  1  pint 
of  boiling  water.     Lastly  add  the  whites  of  egg  beaten  stiff. 

MAPLE  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

Mrs.   H.    C.   Tuttle. 

Rub  2  teaspoons  flour  with  i  cup  butter,  pour  over  it  1  pint 
boiling  water,  stirring  until  smooth.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  1 
pint   maple  syrup.     Let   come   to   the   boil. 

MOLASSES   SAUCE. 

Boil  1  cup  molasses  with  1}  tablespoons  butter  for  -5  minutes, 
take  from  the  fire  and  add  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  or  1  table- 
spoon vinegar. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

I  cup  butter  creamed  with  1  cup  sugar,  adding  1  teaspoon 
flour,  grated  rind  of  1  orange  and  juice  of  2,  and  1  pint  boiling 
water.     Bring  to  the  boil  and  serve  hot  with  boiled  puddings. 

ORANGE  HARD  SAUCE. 

Make  a  hard  sauce  pf  butter  and  sugar;  flavor  with  the  juice 
of  1  orange  and  as  much  of  the  grated  yellow  rind  as  is  liked,  or 
with  orange  essence  if  preferred.  Slit  the  peel  of  a  good  orange 
half  way  down  in  several  places,  work  the  orange  out,  fill  with 
the  sauce,  round  it  oflf  smoothly,  and  turn  under  the  tips  of  the 
sliced  rind. 

PEACH  SAUCE. 

Take  1  pint  canned  peaches,  press  through  a  sieve  with  their 
liquor,  add  1  tablespoon  each  of  maraschino  and  kirsch  (or  cherry 
bounce),  or  \  teaspoon  almond  extract.  Get  very  hot  without 
letting  it  boil.  Serve  with  hot  puddings.  Apricot  sauce  is  made 
the  same  way. 

PINEAPPLE  SAUCE. 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  J  cup  canned  pineapple  liquor  with  \  cup 
white  sugar,  and  \  a  lemon  peel.  Let  boil  6  minutes.  Add  1  tea- 
spoon any  liquor  preferred.     Serve  hot  with  a  hot  pudding. 


PUDDING   SAUCES.  187 

PLUM  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

1  cup  (lark  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, 1  pint  boiling  water.  Cook  5  minutes  and  flavor  with  vanilla 
extract. 

RASPBERRY   SAUCE,   NO.   1. 

Put  4  tablespoons  raspberry  jam  in  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce 
sugar,  i  cup  water,  and  1  teaspoon  kirsch  ;  mix  well  for  a  minute, 
then  boil  for  2  minutes,  stirring.  A  little  cherry  juice  and  almond 
extract  will  take  the  place  of  the  kirsch.  Plain  raspberry  juice 
from  canned  or  fresh  berries  can  be  used  hot.  Fruit  juices  of  all 
kinds  make  good  pudding  sauces  with  appropriate  flavorings  added. 

RASPBERRY  SAUCE,  NO.  2. 

Boil  together  for  10  minutes  I  cup  cold  water,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  I  cup  raspberry  juice,  and  1  tablespoon  Jamaica  rum.  Use 
hot  or  cold. 

RUM    SAUCE. 

Put  2  tablespoons  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  .]  cup  water,  the 
rind  of  1  lemon,  a  small  piece  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  butter,  a 
few  drops  of  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  brandy,  and  3  tablespoons  Jamaica 
rum.  When  it  begins  to  simmer  add  a  saltspoon  arrowroot,  letting 
simmer  for  a  couple  of  minutes  while  stirring.  Take  out  the 
lemon  and  cinnamon  and  serve  in  a  sauceboat  hot. 


SABAYON  SAUCE. 

Filippini. 

Beat  until  light  1  heaping  tablespoon  granulated  sugar  with 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Scald  in  a  saucepan  1  cup  cream  and  milk 
mixed ;  when  at  the  boil  add  \  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  pour  gradu- 
ally over  the  eggs  and  sugar,  stirring  continuously.  Set  back  on 
the  stove  and  get  very  hot  without  boiling,  stirring  all  the  time. 
.Strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  hot  sauceboat,  and  serve  with 
hot   puddings. 

VANILLA  SAUCE. 

Mrs.    Herbert    Grandy. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  flour,  a  small  piece  butter ; 
mix  well,  pour  over  it  boiling  water  till  the  thickness  required, 
let  come  to  the  boil,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  serve. 

VINEGAR  SAUCE. 

Brown  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  hot  saucepan,  rub  in  1  table- 
spoon flour;  add  slowly  1  pint  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  1  teaspoon  caramel  and  ^  cup  sugar,  put  over  the  boiling 
tea  kettle  for  15  minutes,  then  add  i  cup  vinegar,  and  serve. 


188  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 

Beat  {  cup  butter  with  1  cup  powdered  sugar  to  a  cream,  add 
the  white  of  1  unbeaten  egg,  and  beat,  then  a  second  white  of  egg, 
and  beat  hard  until  as  light  as  possible.  Add  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
stand  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  over  the  tire,  and  stir  in  briskly 
^  cup  boiling  water.  Stir  till  it  froths  and  serve  immediately. 
I  cup  sherry  may  be  used  instead  of  vanilla,  if  wine  is  liked. 

WINE  SAUCE. 

Mrs.    H.    W.    Miller. 

Beat  1  egg  and  1  cup  sugar  together,  add  1  tablespoon  butter, 
and  2  wine  glasses  sherry.  Cook  in  double  boiler  5  or  lU  minutes 
without   boiling,   stirring   all    the   time. 

YELLOW   SAUCE. 

Beat  together  very  hard  "2  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar,  set  the  bowl 
in  a  pan  of  water  on  the  stove,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  a  sauce- 
boat,  pour  the  egg  over  it,  and  flavor  with  wine  or  vanilla  or 
both.     Serve  cold,  and  stir  well  before  using. 


PASTRY. 


PIE  PASTE. 


Mix  i  teaspoon  salt  witli  11  cups  flour;  work  m  \  cup  lard 
with  the  tips  of  the  fingers;  moisten  with  cold  water  till  a  dough 
is  formed.  Dredge  a  board  with  Hour,  place  the  dough  on  it,  pat 
and  roll  out;  wash  i  cup  butter,  make  into  a  round  cake,  and  fold 
it  into  the  paste;  pat  again;  repeat  this.  If  not  to  be  used  at 
once,  wrap  up  in  cheesecloth,  put  in   a  covered  tin,  and  keep  m  a 

cold  place.  .     ,        r  ,      <    i    .  i        <■ 

Good  paste  may  also  be   made  entirely   of   lard,   but   rarely   ot 

butter   alone.  ^^^ 

PUFF  PASTE. 

Sift  1  pound  flour  on  a  board ;  make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  and 
pour  into  it  1  cup  ice  water  and  i  teaspoon  salt.  Knead  well  until 
perfectly  mixed.  Then  let  rest  15  minutes.  Wash  1  pound  butter 
in  1  quart  ice  water,  then  knead  it  out  well  flattening  with  the 
hand,  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  Flour  the  board  and  roll  out  the 
paste  to  li  larger  than  the  butter ;  put  the  butter  on  top  cover  it 
with  the  4  corners,  and  roll  out  to  a  square  1  inch  thick,  then 
fold  it  in  3  folds  without  separating.  Roll  out  again  to  a  square 
a  little  thinner.  Fold  up  and  place  on  a  pan,  cover  with  a  towel 
and  put  in  a  cool  place  for  20  minutes.  Roll  it  out  square  as  be- 
•  fore  and  fold  again,  letting  rest  another  20  minutes.  Roll  out 
again,  fold  as  before  and  put  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted. 

ALMOND  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   Ralph  Wilson. 

Mix  together  6  well  beaten  eggs,  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  rosewater,  3  tablespoons  powdered  cracker,  4  tab  e- 
spoons  melted  butter,  4  ounces  finely  shredded  citron  and  lastly 
3  pound  sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  fine.  Lme  a  pud- 
ding dish  with  rich  pie  paste,  pour  the  mixture  in  and  bake  till 
done.     It  should  stand  several  hours  before  serving. 

APPLE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Margaret    A.    Sayers. 

Roll  a  good  pie  crust  out  thin,  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  a  dripping  pan  about  14  inches  square.  Peel  core  and  slice 
fdozen  goocf  sized  apples,  put  them  in  the  pan  with  1  cup  raisms 
or  currants,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,^  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon or  nutmeg,  and  bits  of  butter  amounting  in  size  to  a  walnut 
Cover  with  a  second  crust,  but  have  the  lower  crust  large  enough 
to  roll  over  the  edge  of  the  upper  one.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven- 

189 


190  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

APPLE  PAN   PIE. 

"The    Ladies'    Home    Cook    Book." 

Take  a  deep  earthen  pudding  pot,  fill  it  with  slices  of  tart 
apples,  pour  on  enough  molasses  to  sweeten  them ;  sprinkle  over 
them  a  little  cinnamon,  cover  with  a  paste,  cut  a  hole  in  the 
middle,  and  place  in  the  oven.  After  the  first  paste  is  baked,  it 
may  be  taken  off  and  a  second  one  baked.  This  should  also  be 
taken  off,  and  the  apple  stay  in  till  it  becomes  a  deep  red.  When 
done,  take  from  the  oven  and  immediately  break  the  paste  into 
small  pieces,  and  stir  into  the  sauce  while  hot.     Serve  cold. 

APPLE  PIE. 

Stew  a  dozen  tart  apples  ;  when  soft  add  1  tablespoon  butter, 
1  cup  sugar,  \  glass  rosewater,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Fill  a  freshly 
baked  crust,  and  serve  cold. 

APPLE  TARTS. 

Pare,  core  and  slice  G  sound  apples.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with 
1  tablespoon  butter,  3  tablespoons  sugar  and  a  little  vanilla.  Cover 
and  cook  slowly  for  30  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Rub  through  a 
sieve,  and  let  cool.  Roll  out  puff  paste  h  inch  thick,  cut  12  pieces 
3  inches  square,  wet  the  surface  of  6  with  beaten  eggs,  divide 
the  sauce  over  them,  cover  with  the  remaining  pieces,  and  pinch 
the  edges  together.  Glaze  the  surfaces  with  egg,  dust  with  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  bake  for  20  minutes. 

^  DRIED  APPLE  PIE. 

Stew  dried  apples  with  a  piece  of  lemon  peel  till  tender,  and 
rub  through  the  colander.  Sweeten  to  taste,  add  a  pinch  of  nut- 
meg or  cinnamon,  and,  if  liked,  a  well  beaten  egg.  Bake  with 
two  crusts,  and  serve  warm. 

FRIED  APPLE   PIES. 

"The   Ladies'   Home   Cook  Book." 

Mix  1  tablespoon  lard,  1  quart  flour,  1  tablespoon  yeast,  and 
water  to  form  a  stifif  batter,  and  let  stand  till  light.  Add  a  very 
little  soda,  and  knead  up  not  very  stiff :  roll  out  the  paste,  cut  in 
rounds  with  a  saucer,  lay  a  spoonful  of  freshly  made  apple  sauce 
either  green  or  dried  on  one-half  the  crust,  fold  the  other  over, 
pinch   the  edge,  and   fry  in  hot  lard. 

SLICED  APPLE   PIE. 

Mrs.    Thos.    Coughtrie. 

Line  a  pan  witli  paste.  Take  ripe,  tart  apples,  pare,  core  and 
slice  them  thin,  filling  the  pan  ;  dust  over  them  as  much  sugar  as 
they  seem  to  need,  add  a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  butter  in  bits.  Put  on  the  top  crust,  prick  holes  in  it, 
and  bake  in   a  moderate  oven. 


PASTRY.  19] 

SWEET  APPLE  PIE. 

Mrs.    Clara    Stephenson. 

Pare  and  grate  6  large,  sweet  apples,  add  1  well  beaten  egg, 
^  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  J  teaspoon  salt,  butter  the  size  of 
a  hickory  nut,  and  lemon  to  flavor.  Bake  with  one  crust.  Dust 
powdered  sugar  over  when  baked. 

BANANA   CUSTARD    PIE. 

Mrs.    Kate    Slatzer. 

Line   a   pie   tin   with   paste   and  bake.     When   done   slice   in   it 

2  small  bananas.  Make  a  custard  with  1  pint  milk,  2  tablespoons 
cornstarch,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  a  little 
vanilla.  Pour  this  over  the  bananas,  and  spread  with  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  stifif  with  2  tablespoons  sugar,  returning  to  the 
oven  to  brown  slightly. 

BANANA  PIE. 

Mrs.    Charles   Wilson. 

Bake  2  crusts.     Cut  bananas  in  slices  and  fill  the  crusts;  beat 

3  eggs  up  light  with  1  teaspoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 
and  sugar  to  taste;  pour  boiling  water  over  this  slowly,  stirring 
till  it  begins  to  thicken  ;  take  off  and  pour  over  the  bananas.  Make 
a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  egg  and  sugar,  and  put  in  the  oven 
to  brown. 

BANBURY  CAKES.  -^ 

"Buckeye     Cook    Book." 

Take  an  equal  quantity  of  cleaned  currants,  chopped  lemon 
peel  and  granulated  sugar,  mix  all  together  with  ginger  and  cinna- 
mon to  taste ;  add  enough  butter  to  make  a  good  paste.  Make  a 
good  puff  paste,  roll  \  inch  thick,  cut  into  2  inch  squares,  and 
place  a  lump  of  the  mixture  on  each.  Pinch  2  opposite  corners  of 
the  dough  together,  and  press  down  flat;  wash  the  remaining 
corners  with  water,  and  put  as  much  powdered  sugar  on  as  will 
stay.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

BLACKBERRY  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Mrs.   H.    D.   Lewis. 

Make  a  dough  not  quite  as  rich  as  for  pie ;  roll  out  in  a  large 
sheet,  cover  one-half  thickly  with  blackberries,  turn  the  other 
half  of  the  dough  over  it  and  press  down  the  edges  tight.  In 
Wales  this  would  be  baked  on  an  immense  griddle  over  the  grate, 
and  turned  over.  In  default  of  griddles  of  the  proper  size,  bako 
in  the  oven  until  done.  Take  out,  turn  back  the  top  crust,  spread 
the  berries  "Over  the  whole  sheet,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bits  of 
butter,  cut  in  squares,  and  serve  on  separate  plates. 

Sliced  apples  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 


192  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

BLACKBERRY   PIE. 

Mrs.    Joseph    Reid. 

Pick  over  the  berries,  wash  it  necessary,  line  a  pie  pan  with 
good  paste,  put  in  the  berries,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar,  put  on  a 
top  crust,  slash  it  across  the  middle,  pinch  around  the  edges  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Dust  the  top  with  sugar  when  serving 
hot  or  cold. 

Other  berries  and  small  fruits  may  be  treated  in  the  same 
way.    A  crossbar  of  paste  is  good  with  a  berry  pie. 

BLUEBERRY  PIE. 

"Boston  Cooking   School." 

Slightly  dredge  21  cups  berries  with  flour,  and  fill  a  pie  pan 
lined  with  paste ;  sprinkle  with  ^  cup  sugar,  and  a  pinch  salt. 
Cover  with  paste,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes. 

Huckleberry  Pie  is  made  like  blueberry,  but  is  improved  by 
the  addition  of  half  a  dozen  seeded  and  chopped  green  grapes. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE. 

Mrs.    Clara    Stephenson. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  buttermilk,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour,  a 
little  butter,  and  flavoring  to  taste.     Bake  with  1  crust. 

CHEESE  CAKES. 

Put  1  spoonful  rennet  in  1  quart  rtew  milk;  keep  near  the  fire, 
and  when  the  curd  forms,  drain  oiT  the  whey  through  a  sieve. 
Rub  into  the  curd  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  1 
grated  nutmeg,  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg ;  beat  well,  add  1  whole  egg 
and  beat  again.  Mix  in  ^  pound  dried  currants,  or  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Line  patty  pans  with  a  rich  paste, 
half  fill,  dust  with   sugar  and  bake. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Charles    Breeze. 

Put  2  cups  of  milk  on  to  boil  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  3  table- 
spoons chocolate  or  cocoa,  J  cup  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  small 
egg,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir 
well  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well 
beaten,  cook  a  moment  longer,  take  from  the  fire,  add  2  teaspoons 
vanilla,  and  pour  into  a  freshly  baked  pie  crust.  Make  a  meringue 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  3  tablespoons  sugar,  spread  over 
the  pie,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Frank   Auker. 

Mix  4  tablespoons  unsweetened,  grated  chocolate  wi-th  2  table- 
spoons cornstarch  and  a  little  cold  water.  Bring  the  rest  of  1  pint 
water  to  the  boil,  stir  in  tlie  mixture,  and  cook  till  thick.     Sweeten 


PASTRY.  193 

with  6  tablespoons  sugar,  take  from  the  tire,  add  vanilla  to  taste, 
and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten.  Pour  into  a  freshly  baked 
crust,  and  spread  on  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  i 
cup   sugar.      Brown. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS,  NO.  L 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

Roll  out  a  sheet  of  pie  paste  J  inch  thick;  cut  in  pieces  ^ 
inches  square ;  spread  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  bits  of  butter ; 
fold  over,  and  pinch  the  edges  together  all  around.  Prick  the 
tops  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS,  NO.  2. 

Miss  Johanna   Feeney. 

Roll  out  pie  paste  to  ^  inch  in  thickness;  spread  with  sugar, 
bits  of  butter  and  cinnamon  ;  roll  up  tiglit.  press  the  edge  down, 
and  cut  in  pieces  about  an  inch  long.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

COCO  AN  UT  PIE,  NO.   1. 

Grate  1  cocoanut ;  take  its  weiglit  in  sugar.  J  its  weight  in  but- 
ter, 5  eggs,  the  milk  of  the  nut  and  1  pint  milk,  grated  peel  and 
juice  of  1  lemon.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  the  milk 
and  melt  the  butter  and  put  in.  Line  4  pie  pans  with  paste,  fill 
and  bake. 

COCOANUT  PIE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    A.    H.     Flowers. 

Put  1  quart  milk  and-  1  pint  water  on  to  boil,  reserving  enough 
to  wet  3  tablespoons  flour ;  sweeten  to  taste  :  beat  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  light,  stir  in  the  flour  and  water,  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk ; 
stir  till  smooth,  then  add  the  most  of  h  box  cocoanut.  Have  3 
freshly  baked  crusts,  fill,  cover  witli  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of 
egg  beaten  stiff  with  a  little  sugar,  sprinkle  with  the  rest  of  the 
cocoanut,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

COCOANUT   STRUDEL. 

Mrs.    C.    H.    Furman. 

Take  1  quart  flour,  1  tablespoon  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough,  but  not  sticky.  Knead  and 
slap  it  verv  hard ;  let  rise  covered  in  a  warm  place  J  hour.  Pre- 
pare all  the  ingredients  so  thev  can  be  added  without  delay. 
Cover  a  table  with  a  clean  cloth,  flour  it  well,  put  the  dough  in  the 
middle  and  stretch  it  first  one  place  and  another  till  as  thin  as 
tissue  paper.  The  edges. will  always  be  thicker  than  the  rest; 
when  stretched  as  far  as  it  will  go,  cut  off  the  edges  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  scatter  the  ingredients  over  the  sheet;  first  a  thin  dust- 
ing of  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  a  heavy  sprinkle  of  cocoanut,  cinn^^ 
13 


194  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

mon.  sugar,  poppy  seed,  l)its  of  butter,  dots  of  jelly,  raisins,  and 
lastly  white  of  egg  beaten  very  stiff.  Do  this  quickly  or  the  dough 
will  dry.  Take  one  side  of  the  tablecloth  in  your  fingers,  and 
roll  the  dough  up  like  a  jelly  roll  —  it  is  too  delicate  to  roll  with 
the  hands  —  if  too  long  for  the  pans,  cut  the  roll  in  shorter  lengths; 
put  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Cut  in  slices  to 
serve. 

If  the  dough  sticks  in  stretching,  wet  the  edges  with  lard. 

For  Apple  Strudcl  use  less  cocoannt  and  considerable  grated 
apple. 

COVENTRY  PUFFS. 

Roll  puff  paste  into  a  sheet  \  inch  thick;  cut  rounds  3  inches 
across.  Put  a  teaspoon  preserves  on  each,  turn  up  the  edges  in 
3  places  so  as  to  form  a  triangle.  Pinch  tight,  put  bottom  side 
up  in  a  buttered  pan,  wash  over  with  egg  and  water,  dust  with 
powdered  sugar  and  bake. 

CR.^NBERRY  PIF. 

Mrs.    A.    E    Faine. 

Cook  until  thick  1  pint  cranberries  with  h  cup  water  and  1^ 
cups  granulated  sugar.  Set  aside  to  get  cold.  Whip  1  cup  thick 
cream  with  U  tablespoons  sugar  and  ^  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put  the 
cranberries  in  a   freshly  leaked  crust,  cover  with  cream,  and  serve. 

CREAM  PIE,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    James    Friel. 

Bake  a  fruit  pie  without  a  top  crust :  when  cold  cover  with 
freshly   whipped   cream,   and  serve. 

CREAM  PIE,   NO.  2. 

Mrs.     Lucy    Huston. 

Line  a  deep  pan  with  paste,  prick  it  and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 
Put  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  1  large  cup  of  milk.  Stir  to- 
getlier  h  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  small 
half  cup  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  cold  milk  and  the  yolks  of  2  well 
beaten  eggs.  Mix  thoroughlv  and  add  to  the  milk  when  it  boils. 
Stir  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  the  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and 
fill  the  baked  crusts  with  the  custard.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  cover  the  top  of  the  pie,  and  brown 
slightly  in  the  oven. 

To  make  a  chocolate  pie  add  2  tablespoons  cocoa  or  1  table- 
spoon   grated    chocolate   to    the   custard. 

CREAM   PIE,   NO.  3. 

Mrs.    Robert    McGuire. 

Put  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler ;  bring  to  the  boil.  Beat 
together  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  ^  cup  suear.  2  tablespoons  flour,  and 
stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  cooking  till  thick.  Add"  flavoring  to 
taste.  Pour  into  a  freshly  baked  crust,  cover  with  a  frosting  made 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  a  little  sugar,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 


PASTRY.  195 

CRUMB   A  XI)  LEMON   PIE. 

Mrs.    II.    C.    Begland. 

Soak  1  cup  l)read  crumbs  in  enough  milk  to  cover  them. 
Cream  (3  tablespoons  sugar  with  4  of  butter,  beat  4  eggs  light  and 
add  them  to  tlie  cream  :  Havor  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
2  lemons;  and  stir  in  the  crumbs.  Line  a  large  pie  plate  with  a 
rich  paste,  fill  and  bake  till  set  and  brown. 

CURRANT  PIE. 

Miss     Johanna     Feeney. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  fresh  paste,  sprinkle  some  sugar  in  the 
bottom,  till  with  stenmied  currants  in  any  stage  from  green  to 
ripe,  sprinkle  more  sugar,  cover  with  strips  of  paste,  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven  at  least  -"iO  minutes.  It  will  tak^e  1  cup  of  sugar  or 
more   according   to   the   greenness   of   the    fruit. 

Gooseberry  Pie  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

For  Cherry  Pie  stone  the  cherries  and  make  just  like  currant 
pie. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Mrs.     Satnuel    Auker. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  paste.  Rub  1  teaspoon  tlour  smooth  witli 
.}  cup  cold  milk;  pour  into  "2  cups  boiling  milk  and  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  pour  over  3  well  beaten  eggs,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  saltspoon  salt, 
and  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring:  pour  into  the  paste  while 
hot  and  bake  slowly.  A  knife  blade  will  make  a  clean  cut  when 
done. 

ECCLES  CAKES. 

"Buckeye     Cook     Book." 

Prepare  the  ingredients  for  Banbury  Cakes,  put  1  teaspoon 
mixture  on  each  piece  of  paste  and  fold  the  corners  over.  Flatten 
with  the  hand  and  turn  upside  down  on  the  board ;  roll  with  the 
pin  till  the  contents  break  through.  Put  in  buttered  pans,  slash 
the  tops,  brush  with  milk  and  egg,  dust  with  sugar,  and  bake 
brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

EGOLESS    PUMPKIN    PIE. 

Mrs.    Peter    Urquhart. 

Mix  1  cup  mashed  pumpkin  with  1  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon 
cornstarch,  1  cracker  rolled  very  line,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  of 
all  kinds  of  spices,  sugar  to  taste.     Bake  in  a  single  crust. 

ENGLISH   I-RUIT   PIES. 

Put  the  prepared  fruit  in  a  deep  baking  dish  with  plenty  of 
srgar  and  a  little  flour,  if  very  juicy;  if  not  juicy  omit  the  flour, 
and  add  a  little  w^ater.  Line  the  edge  with  pie  paste,  and  let  it 
extend  about  \  the  way  down.  Place  an  inverted  cup  in  the 
riddle,  and  cover  with  a  short  crust,  wash  with  cold  water,  or 
the  white  of  eg",  and  dust  powdered  sugar  over.  Make  fancy 
cuts  in  the  crust.     Pinch  the  edges  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


196  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

GRAPE   PIE. 

Mrs.    Joe    Williams. 

Pop  ripe  grapes  and  stew  the  pulps  until  the  seeds  separate. 
Rub  through  a  colander.  Stir  in  the  skins  again,  fill  the  paste- 
lined  pan,  sprinkle  with  2  tablespoons  flour  and  3  tablespoons 
sugar,  put  a  paste  cover  or  crossbars,  and  bake.  These  may  be 
canned  for  pies  with  just  enough  sugar  to  keep  them.  Use  in  the 
same  way. 

GREEN   TOMATO  PIE. 

Mrs.   A.  H.  Flowers. 

Line  a  pan  with  paste,  slice  pretty  full  of  green  tomatoes ;  add 
I  cup  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon,  cover  with  a  top  crust  and  bake. 

HICKORY  NUT  PIE. 

Mrs.    Ralph   Wilson. 

1  cup  chopped  nutmeats,  2  eggs,  3  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons 
sugar.     Bake  with  one  crust. 

JAM    PIE. 

Make  enough  rich  paste  for  2  pies ;  lino  the  pans,  one  a  rather 
shallow  one,  and  fill  with  rice  or  beans  till  baked ;  shake  out  the 
rice.  Put  a  ^  inch  layer  of  jam  in  the  larger  pie,  spread  whipped 
cream  over  it,  set  the  shallow  pie  on  top,  and  fill  it  with  whipped 
cream,   sweetened   and  flavored ;  chopped  nuts   may  be  added. 

JAM  ROLL. 

Roll  a  strip  of  puff  paste  to  ^  inch  in  thickness ;  spread  with 
jam,  roll  and  pinch  the  ends  to  keep  the  jam  from  coming  out. 
Glaze  with  white  of  t^g,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

KENTISH   PIE. 

Bring  \\  cups  milk  to  the  boil  in  a  double  boiler,  sprinkle  in 
IJ  ounces  rice  flour,  1  ounce  butter,  2  ounces  sugar ;  cook  about 
10  minutes;  take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  1  ounce  butter,  2  ounces 
sugar,  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  nutmeg,  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
essence,  and  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Fill  paste  lined  patty  pans, 
sprinkle  a   few^  currants  on  top,  and  bake   about  20  minutes. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKES. 

"Exchange." 

Powder  2  stale,  small  sponge  cakes  and  beat  into  them  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons  to  which  have  been  added  3 
tablespoons  of  sugar.  Melt  and  add  2  ounces  of  butter;  simmer 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  moments  and  then  add  very  gradually  2 
well  beaten  eggs.     Bake  in  puff  paste   shells. 


PASTRY.  197 

LEMON  PIE,  NO.  1. 

Miss  Annie  Feeney. 

Put  1  cup  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  together  1  cup  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  butter,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
When  the  milk  has  come  to  the  boil,  stir  this  mixture  into  it,  and 
cook  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  2 
lemons  and  a  little  of.^the  grated  rind,  pour  this  into  a  freshlv 
baked  crust.  Then  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  2  tablespoon's 
sugar  spread  over  the  pie  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown.  Orange 
Pie  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way. 

LEMOX   PIE.  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    \Vm.    Angle. 

Take  a  deep  dish,  grate  into  it  the  yellow  rind  of  2,  lemons ; 
add  to  that  U  cups  sugar,  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour,  or  1  of 
cornstarch.  Stir  well  together,  then  add  the  yolks  of  3  well  beaten 
eggs;  add  lemon  juice,  2  cups  of  water  and  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Set  this  on  the  fire  in  double  boiler,  and  cook 
until  it  strings  like  cold  honey.  Turn  into  a  pie  pan  lined  with 
paste  ;  bake,  and  when  done,  cover  with  a  meringue  of  tlie  whites 
of  egg  beaten  up  witli  :'>  small  tablespoons  sugar,  and  brown. 

LEMON  PIE,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.   W.  J.   Barry. 

Mix  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  water, 
and  1  cup  boiling  water.  Cook  and  stir  till  thick.  Pour  into  a 
pie  pan  lined  with  a  freshly  baked  crust.  Beat  the  whites  of  egg 
stiff  with  a  little  sugar,  spread  on  top,  and  return  to  the  oven 
until  brown. 

LEMON  PIE,  NO.  %. 

Mrs.     John     Taylor,     Jr. 

Mix  together  I]  cups  water.  U  cups  sugar,  3  teaspoons  corn- 
starch, butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  1  lemon.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  beginning  to  thicken; 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  -1  eggs,  stir  till  hot  again,  put  in  a  paste- 
lined  pan  and  bake.  Make  a  meringue  of  the"  whites  of  egg  with 
a  little  sugar,  sjiread  over  the  pie,  a!id  return  to  the  oven  to 
brown. 

MARLBOROUGH   PIE. 

Mrs.    Mary   Slatzer. 

Stew  and  strain  apples  enough  for  1  pie.  Add  1  tablespoon 
thick  cream.  I  well  beaten  egg,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Fill 
a  paste  lined  pan  and  bake.  Cover  with  a  meringue  of  white  of 
egg  and  pulverized  sugar,  flavored  with  lemon,  and  brown. 


198  OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

MARTHA  WASHINGTON   PUMPKIN   PIE. 

"Colonial   Recipes." 

Pare  and  cut  into  pieces  a  good  pumpkin.  Put  into  a  porce- 
lain kettle  with  1  teacup  water,  cover  and  steam  till  tender.  While 
hot  add  1  tablespoon  butter  to  each  quart.  Press  through  a  col- 
ander, draining  ofif  the  water.  Sprinkle  over  it  while  hot  1  table- 
spoon flour  to  each  quart.  Take  1  quart  of  strained  pumpkin,  add 
6  well  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  \  teaspoon  mace,  1  tablespoon 
ginger,  \  nutmeg  and  1  gill  brandy.  Line  the  pans  with  a  good, 
rich  paste,  pour  in  the  mixture,  put  strips  of  paste  across,  and 
bake  %  hour  in   a  quick  oven. 

MINCE  MEAT,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    N.    B.    H.    Gardner. 

5  lbs.  of  neck  beef,  2  lbs.  of  suet,  2  lbs.  of  raisins,  2  lbs.  of 
currants,  ^  lb.  of  citron,  2  lbs.  granulated  sugar,  1  gallon  of  cider, 
juice  and  yellow  rind  of  2  oranges,  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  peck 
apples,  1  quart  each  of  canned  peaches,  pears,  cherries  and  grapes, 
1  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinna- 
mon,  allspice  and   nutmeg. 

Boil  meat  till  very  tender  and  chop  fine.  Chop  apples  and 
suet  fine,  and  mix  with  the  meat,  and  add  all  the  other  ingredients. 
If  sealed  in  glass  jars,  will  keep  indefinitely. 

MINCE  MEAT,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    H.    D.    Ross. 

Take  2  pounds  of  lean  fresh  beef,  boil  until  tender  and  chop 
fine.  Pick  1  pound  beef  suet  clean  from  threads,  and  chop  very 
fine.  Pare  and  chop  5  pounds  apples,  and  stone  and  chop  4  pounds 
raisins.  Chop  \  pound  citron.  Mix  all  together,  adding  2\  pounds 
brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  salt,  cloves  and  allspice,  and  2 
tablespoons  cinnamon.  Lastly  add  4  quarts  cider.  Cover  closely 
in  a  jar  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.     Make  with  2  crusts. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 

Miss  McMath. 

Cut  2  cups  cranberries  in  halves  and  wash  them  out  in  cold 
water  to  remove  the  seeds.  Seed  and  chop  1  cup  raisins.  Mix 
together  2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  flour,  and  add  1  cup 
boiling  water,  and  2  teaspoons  vanilla.     Bake  between  2  crusts. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

Roll  4  crackers  and  mix  with  1}  cups  sugar;  stir  in  1  cup 
molasses  and  J  cup  lemon  juice  or  vinegar;  add  1  cup  seeded  and 
chopped  raisins,  .]  cup  butter,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  and  spices  to 
taste.     Make  a  top  crust. 


PASTRY.  199 

MOONSHINE  PIE. 

Mrs.   G.    S.   Mohler. 

Dissolve  1  cup  sugar  in  2  cups  milk,  and  bring  to  the  boil  in 
a  double  boiler;  stir  in  §■  cup  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the 
milk  while  cold,  and  stir  till  thick;  lastly  stir  in  the  beaten  whites 
of  4  eggs,  take  off,  flavor,  put  in  a  freshly  baked  crust,  sprinkle 
with  shredded  cocoanut,  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

NAPOLEON   PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Wilson. 

Line  a  (?celT  plate  with  rich  paste ;  cover  with  a  thick  layer 
of  preserves,  sprinkle  with  1  tablespoon  chopped  almonds,  and  half 
as  much  chopped,  candied  lemon  peel.  Beat  separately  4  yolks 
and  2  whites  of  eggs,  add  1  cup  sugar,  and  h  cup  butter  melted, 
and  pour  all  over  the  preserves.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  other  2  whites   and  sugar.     Brown. 

ORANGE  PIE. 
Mrs.    Nancy   Rush. 

3  eggs,  f  cup  white  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  juice  of  1 
orange  and  ^  the  grated  rind,  juice  of  1  lemon  and  ^  the  grated 
rind.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  yolks  and  the 
fruit,  put  into  a  paste  lined  pan  and  bake.  When  done  spread 
over  it  the  whites  of  egg  beaten  stiff  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

ORANGE  CREAM  PIE,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.   Elmer  Marlowe. 

Beat  well  together  3  eggs  and  J  cup  sugar.  Heat  1  pint  milk 
to  the  boiling  point  and  pour  slowly  over  eggs  and  sugar.  Add 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange.  Return  to  the  fire  and  cook 
3  minutes.  Remove  and  add  1  package  orange  jello.  Stir  until  it 
begins  to  thicken.  Have  ready  a  freshly  baked  pie  crust,  pour 
the  mixture  in  and  let  cool.  Then  whip  1  cup  cream  stiff,  and 
fail  in  the  top  of  the  pie  like  a  meringue. 

ORANGE  CREAM  PIE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  Porter  Hoskins. 

Boil  U  cups  rich  milk;  add  I  cup  sugar,  the  yolks  of  2  well 
beaten  eggs,  a  small  pinch  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  cornstarch  in  ^ 
cup  cold  milk.  When  beginning  to  thicken,  take  from  the  fire, 
flavor  with  orange  essence,  and  pour  into  a  freshly  baked  crust. 
Beat  the  whites  of  egg  with  3  tablespoons  sugar,  flavor  with  orange, 
and  spread  over  the  custard.  Set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Serve 
cold. 

ORANGE  CREAM  PIE,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Bird. 

Take  3  eggs,  1  quart  milk,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  the  juice  of  2 
oranges,  J  teaspoon  cornstarch,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  This  recipe 
makes  2  pies,  using  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  frosting. 


200  OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

ORANGE  STICKS. 

Roll  pie  or  puff  paste  thin,  cut  in  strips  5  inches  by  1,  and 
bake  in  hot  oven.  Spread  with  orange  filling  and  put  together  in 
pairs. 

Lemon  filling  or  any  good  cake  filling  may  be  used  for  sticks. 

ORANGE  TARTS. 

Line  patty  pans  with  puff  paste  and  bake  15  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  Remove,  put  1  teaspoon  orange  marmalade  on  each 
patty,  cover  with  a  meringue,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Any  other 
marmalade  or  jam  may  be  used  instead  of  the  orange. 

PARTY  PUFFS. 

Make  a  rich  paste,  roll  out  thin  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter. 
Lay  them  on  a  shallow  buttered  tin  pan.  Make  a  puff  paste  and 
cut  with  the  same  cutter.  Cut  the  centres  out  of  the  puff  cakes 
with  a  small  wine  glass,  and  lay  the  rims  on  the  first  cakes.  Brush 
all  over  with  white  of  eggs  sweetened,  and  bake  .till  a  nice  brown. 
Fill    with   jelly   or   sweetmeats   of   any  kind. 

PEACH  COBBLER. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Davis. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  and  line  a  dripping  pan ; 
put  in  a  layer  of  peaches  peeled,  stoned  and  cut  in  half  ;  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  flour.  If  the  dish  is  deep, 
a  second  layer  may  be  put.  Add  a  little  water;  more  if  the  peaches 
are  not  juicy.  Cover  with  the  crust,  pinch  the  edges  down  tight, 
and  cut  slits  in  the  centre.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with 
cream. 

PEACH  MERINGUE  PIE. 

Pare  and  stone  ripe  peaches,  and  stew  till  tender  with  a  num- 
ber of  kernels  thrown  in.  Rub  through  a  colander ;  fill  a  paste, 
and  bake  till  done.  Spread  over  it  a  thick  meringue  of  white  of 
egg  and  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  brown.  Serve  cold.  Any 
preserved   fruit  may  be  served  the  same  way. 

PEACH  ROLLS. 

Stew  dried  fruit,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste ;  make  a  good 
baking  powder  crust,  roll  thin,  spread  fruit  on,  put  thin  slices 
butter  on  the  fruit,  and  roll  up.  Put  in  a  deep  pan,  to  each  4 
rolls  add  1  cup  sugar,  and  'k  cup  butter,  cover  with  hot  water,  and 
bake  h  hour. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE,  NO.  1. 

Dissolve  3  level  tablespoons  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Pour  over  it  1  cup  boiling,  grated  pineapple,  juice  and  all.  Stir 
till  mixture  thickens,  then  add  juice  of  ^  lemon,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  beaten  egg,  }  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  all  to- 
gether, turn  into  a  pie  pan  lined  with  paste,  and  put  on  a  top 
crust.     Bake  about  h  hour. 


PASTRY.  201 

PINEAPPLE  PIE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Seth    Robinson. 

Beat  J  cup  butter  to  a  cream  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  5  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  cream,  1  grated  pineapple  and  lastly 
the  stiflf  whites  of  the  eggs.     Bake  with  an  under  crust  only. 

If  preferred,  the  whites  of  egg  may  be  kept  out,  and  used 
for  a  meringue  when  baked. 

PINE.VPPLE  TART. 

Fill  a  freshly  baked  pie  crust  with  slices  of  preserved  pine- 
apple. Put  the  syrup  of  the  pineapple  in  a  saucepan  and  boil  up 
well  with  3  tablespoons  apricot  or  strawberry  jam,  1  tablespoon 
rum  or  brandy,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  1  teaspoon  cornstarch. 
Strain  and  cool,  and  pour  over  the  pineapple  slices ;  cover  with 
whipped  cream. 

PLUM   PIE. 

Mrs.   Marion  Truax. 

Make  a  good  pie  dough  and  line  a  pan.  Fill  with  plums, 
seeded  or  not,  as  you  choose.  Sprinkle  well  with  sugar  and  a 
little  flour.  If  the  large  dry  plum,  use  a  little  water.  Cover  with 
a  second  crust,  pinch  the  edges  all  around,  make  a  row  of  slashes 
across  the  middle,  and  bake  till   done. 

POTATO   PIE. 

Boil  1  pound  potatoes,  peel  and  mash  through  a  colander. 
Stir  to  a  cream  ^  pound  sugar,  |  pound  butter,  add  gradually  a 
wine  glass  wine  and  1  of  brandy,  1  teaspoon  ground  mace  and 
cinnamon,  1  grated  nutmeg,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  large 
lemon.  Then  beat  6  eggs  very  light  and  add  them  by  degrees  to 
the  mixture  alternately  with  the  potato.  Bake  without  a  top 
crust. 

POTATO  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Mrs.    Mary    Keller. 

Grate  2  good  sized  boiled  potatoes;  beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs 
very  light,  add  a  little  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg,  the  potatoes,  a 
heaping  teaspoon  butter,  and  milk  enough  for  a  very  thin  custard. 
Fill  a  good  crust  and  bake  till  the  custard  is  set. 

N.  B.     During  the  war,  this  was  known  as  a  "Jeff  Davis"  ])ie. 

PRUNE   PIE. 

Wash  I  pound  prunes  and  cover  with  cold  water  to  soak ; 
cook  in  the  same  water  till  soft.  Take  out  the  stones,  cut  in 
quarters,  mix  with  a  scant  i  cup  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  lemon 
juice.  Boil  the  liquor  down  to  ]\  tablespoons.  Line  the  pan 
with  paste,  cover  with  prunes,  pour  over  the  liquor,  dot  with  l.V 
teaspoons  butter,  and  sprinkle  witli  1  tablespoon  flour.  Put  an 
upper  crust. 


202  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

PUMPKIN  PIE,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Frank    Orndorf. 

1  pint  stewed  pumpkin,  1  pint  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  allspice, 
a  little  salt.  Line  a  pan  with  paste,  prick  it  several  times,  fill  and 
bake   brown. 

PUMPKIN  PIE,   NO.  2. 

Miss  Johanna   Feeney. 

Peel,  cut  up  and  stew  a  piece  ot  pumpkin;  when  tender  rub 
it  through  a  colander ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  sugar  to  taste,  a  lump 
of  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  1  teaspoon  ginger  and  1  teaspoon 
mixed  spices,  1  tablespoon  brandy,  1  cup  milk,  and  2  eggs.  Beat 
all  together  till  light.  Put  in  a  pan  lined  with  paste,  and  bake 
in    a    moderate    oven    without    any    top    crust. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

Mrs.   Jacob   Drease. 

Take  \  box  seeded  raisins,  cover  with  water,  add  h  cup  sugar, 
and  let  sinniier  for  ^  hour.  Thicken  with  I  teaspoon  flour  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water.  Fill  a  paste  lined  pan,  and  bake  with  a 
top  crust. 

RHUBARB   PIE,   NO.   1. 

Miss  Johanna   Feeney. 

Wash  and  cut  the  rhubarb  into  1  inch  pieces,  but  do  not  peel, 
if  young.  Line  a  pan  with  paste,  sprinkle  sugar  on  the  paste,  fill 
in  with  rhubarb,  about  a  pint,  and  sprinkle  the  rest  of  a  cup  of 
sugar  over  it.  Cover  with  strips  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  30  min- 
utes  or  more.      Sprinkle   with  sugar   when  it  is   served. 

RHUBARB   PIE,   NO.   2. 

Mrs.     Ella    Owens. 

Wash  the  rhubarb  well  and  cut  it  in  slices ;  put  it  on  to  stew 
adding  a  pinch  of  soda.  When  tender,  measure  out  a  cup  of  rhu- 
barb and  a  cup  of  sugar;  beat  up  tiie  yolk  of  1  egg,  stir  in  it  2 
teaspoons  cornstarch  or  flour,  and  add  it  to  the  rhubarb  and  sugar 
mixing  well.  Put  it  in  a  pie  pan  lined  with  paste,  and  bake  done. 
Beat  up  the  white  of  the  egg  with  .S  tablespoons  sugar,  spread  it 
over  the  pie,  and  brown. 

SPONGE  CAKE  STRUDEL. 

Mrs.   C.   H.    Furman, 

Prepare  a  dough  as  for  cocoanut  strudel.  Drop  spoonfuls  of 
a  soft  sponge  cake  batter  over  it,  and  sprinkle  with  chopped 
almonds.     Roll  as  before. 


PASTRY.  20B 

STRAWBERRY    PIE. 

Mrs.   F.   E.  Martin. 

Bake  2  fresh  crusts,  fill  with  fresh  berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
and  set  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  heat  through  without  cooking. 
Put  1  pie  over  the  other,  and  serve  with  a  whipped  cream  cover, 
or  plain  cream  in  a  pitcher. 

STRAWBERRY  T A RTS. 

Bake  6  tart  crusts.  Put  in  a  saucepan  2  ounces  sugar,  with  1 
cup  water,  i  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  1  pint  fresh  strawberries  Let 
boil  5  minutes,  fake  up  the  berries  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  on 
the  crusts.  Boil  the  syrup  down  to  half  the  quantity,  pour  over 
the  tarts  and  serve. 

SWEET   POTATO   PIE. 

Mrs.   H.  B.    Coulson. 

Boil  peel  and  mash  fine  3  good  sized  sweet  potatoes;  add  5 
well  beaten  eggs,  and  1  quart  milk  carefully  to  prevent  lumping. 
Sweeten  to  taste,  add  vanilla  and  \  pound  melted  butter.  Bake 
in  paste  lined  pans. 

VINEGAR   PIE,   NO.    1. 

Miss  Sophronia  Tucker. 

4  teacups  water,  21  cups  sugar,  3  yolks  of  egg,  6  tablespoons 
flour  mixed  in  a  little  water,  2  teaspoons  butter,  11  teaspoons 
vinegar,  3   teaspoons   lemon   extract.  u  ^    a 

Stir  all  together  and  cook  until  thick.  Fill  a  freshly  baked 
crust,  cover  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  brown. 

VINEGAR   PIE,   NO.   2. 

Mrs.  Harrison  Crawford. 

Beat  together  1  teacup  brown  sugar  and  1  egg;  add  2  level 
teaspoons  flour,  and  1  cup  vinegar.  Cook  until  thick.  Line  a  pan 
with  fresh  paste,  fill  it.  cover  with  strips  of  paste,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

WHIPPED  CREAM    PIE. 

Mrs.    George   Hoodlet. 

Take  1  small  cup  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  sweeten  to  taste,  flavor 
with  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  chill  until  very  cold.  Bake  a  fresh 
pie  crust,  whip  the  cream  until  very  stiff  and  fill  the  crust. 


CAKES. 


CAKE  MAKING. 

Measure  the  ingredients  carefully,  the  flour  after  it  is  sifted; 
beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  yolks  of  egg  well  beaten 
next,  the  milk  and  flour  alternately ;  dredge  any  heavy  fruit  with 
flour  and  add  next;  lastly  the  stiff  whites  of  egg  folded  in  care- 
fully. Do  all  the  hard  beating  before  the  flour  goes  in.  Sift  bak- 
ing powder  or  cream  tartar  with  the  last  of  the  flour,  put  soda  in 
the  milk  or  molasses  or,  if  neither,  dissolve  it  in  a  little  hot 
water.  Have  the  oven  ready  and  not  too  hot  at  first,  grease  the 
pan,  and  if  any  fruit,  line  the  pan  with  greased  paper.  Do  not 
move  the  pan  more  than  absolutely  necessary;  if  browning  too 
fast,  cover  with  a  paper.  When  the  cake  leaves  the  sides  of  the 
pan,  it  is  done,  or  if  a  broom  straw  run  through  it  comes  out 
dry.  Let  cool  a  few  moments  before  taking  from  the  pan.  If 
you  follow  these  instructions  and  your  cake  is  not  good,  change 
your  flour. 

ALMOND  CAKES. 

1  pound  sugar,  J  pound  flour,  6  eggs,  f  pound  almonds,  h 
pound  citron. 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  and  then  beat  into  them  the  sugar, 
chopped  citron,  and  blanched  and  halved  almonds.  Sift  the  flour 
gradually  into  the  mixture.  Pour  into  shallow,  well-buttered  tins. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done,  roll  in  powdered  almonds 
and  sugar.  Packed  carefully  in  tins  these  cakes  will  keep  a 
long  time. 

ALMOND  DROPS. 

Mrs.    B.   E.   Winters. 

2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  pound  chopped  almonds,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,   1   teaspoon  cloves,   enough   flour   to   stiffen. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  quite  stiff,  add  the 
other  ingredients,  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  to  buttered  pans  and  bake. 

ALMOND  LOAF  CAKE. 

Miss    Emily    L.    Curran. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  5  cups  flour,  whites  of  6  eggs,  1 
cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon 
almond   extract,    1    cup    almonds   blanched    and    chopped    fine. 

Sift  the  cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  dissolve  the  soda  in  four 
tablespoons   hot  water.     Bake   in   loaf   cake  pan. 

204 


CAKES.  205 

ANGELS'  FOOD. 

Miss    Mary    V.     Gardner. 

IJ-  cups  granulated  sugar,  U  cups  flour,  U  teaspoons  cream 
tartar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  whites  of  15  eggs. 

Put  eggs  in  mixing  bowl  with  the  salt  and  half  beat  them; 
add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  thoroughly.  Now  sift  in  sugar, 
scant  measure,  and  lastly  the  flour,  being  careful  not  to  stir  more 
than  to  make  smooth.  Line  the  pan  with  thick  greased  paper,  and 
bake  m  slow  oven  55  minutes. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Hugh     Sliuttlewortli. 

h  cup  I)uttcr.  ]  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  M,  cups  apple  sauce, 
1  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  tablespoon  hot  water,  2  teaspoons  soda, 
]    teaspoon   cinnamon,   1   teaspoon   cloves. 

Cook  the  apples  as  for  the  table,  straining  and  sweetening. 
Prunes,  pineapple,  pieplant,  etc..  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
applesauce,  using  less  soda  if  the  fruit  is  sweet.  Bake  in  a  loaf 
cake. 

BANANA  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Ed.    Spicer. 

\  cup  Initter.  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  .V  cup  milk,  \]  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  3  eggs. 

Bake  in  layers.  Spread  with  a  boiled  white  icing,  spreading 
thin  slices  of  banana  between.  Ice  the  top  also.  Must  be  eaten 
fresh. 

BERLIN  PANCAKES. 

Mrs.   Seth    Robinson. 

Roll  out  a  very  plain  raised  dough  as  for  doughnuts,  cut  with 
a  biscuit  cutter,  put  a  teaspoon  currant  jam  or  jelly  in  the  centre 
of  one,  cover  with  another,  press  the  edges  tightly  together,  and 
fry  quickly  in  boiling  fat. 

BLACK  CAKE,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Hugh   Ewing. 

2  pounds  currants,  2  pounds  raisins,  1  pound  citron,  1  pound 
flour,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  butter.  12  eggs,  4  grated  nutmegs, 
1  large  tablespoon  mace,  1  large  tablespoon  cinnamon,  2  large  wine- 
glassfuls  white  wine,  1  large  wineglass  brandy,  1  large  wineglass 
rosewater.  .  . 

Wash,  pick  and  dry  the  currants;  stem  and  seed  the  raisms ; 
cut  the  citron  into  thin  slices;  add  the  spices  and  the  liquor  and 
stir  all  together.  Cut  the  butter  into  the  sugar  and  beat  to  a 
cream.  Beat  the  eggs  together  hard,  and  add  them  to  the  butter 
and  sugar  alternately  with  the  sifted  flour.  Stir  in  the  mixture  of 
fruit  and  spices.  Put  in  a  large  deep  pan  ;  line  bottom  and  sides 
with  greased  paper,  bake  in  moderate  oven  If  hours,  and  let  stand 
in  the  oven  until  cold. 


206  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AXD    NEIV. 

BLACK  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    N.    B.    H.    Gardner. 

2  pounds  raisins,  2  pounds  currants,  J  pound  citron,  J  pound 
blanched  almonds,  1  cup  of  walnut  kernels,  i  cup  New  Orleans 
molasses,  1  pound  sugar,  |  pound  butter,  1  pound  flour,  12  eggs,- 
1   teaspoon  each  of   cinnamon,   cloves,   allspice   and   nutmeg. 

Line  a  pan  with  greased  paper,  and  put  in  about  ^  inch  of 
batter;  then  a  layer  of  fruit,  and  so  on  until  pan  is  filled.  Steam 
4i-  hours,  then  dry  off  about  l  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

BOSTON  CREAM  PIE. 

•J  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  l)utter,  1  cup  flour,  4  eggs,  i  tea- 
spoon vanilla. 

cake  in  a  deep  layer  pan  20  minutes.  Let  cool,  split  the  pic 
crosswise,  spread  the  cut  side  of  both  with  a  good  cream  custard, 
join  them  again  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  the  cake. 

BROWN  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Mary    McBride. 

1  cup  butter  or  lard,  3  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  cold  water, 
I  cup  sour  milk,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  I 
teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  raisins,  flour  enough  for 
a  stifif  batter. 

BROWNIES'  DELIGHT. 

4  cups  sugar,  whites  four  eggs,  1  grated  cocoanut,  1  orange, 
1  cup  hickory  nuts,  1  cup  chopped  and  seeded  raisins,  1  table- 
spoon grated  chocolate,  1  cup  chopped  citron,  1  cup  blanched  and 
chopped  almonds. 

Make  4  layers  of  a  rich  white  cake.  Add  enough  water  to  the 
sugar  to  dissolve  it  and  put  it  on  to  boil.  Beat  the  whites  of  egg 
very  stiff  on  a  platter.  When  a  teaspoon  of  the  syrup  dropped 
in  cold  water  becomes  waxy,  it  must  be  poured  very  slowly  into 
the  eggs,  beating  continuously  until  cold.  Divide  into  4  parts.  Into 
the  first  stir  the  cocoanut  and  the  pulp  of  the  orange  rubbed 
through  a  sieve.  Spread  this  on  the  first  layer.  For  the  second, 
add  the  nuts,  raisins  and  chocolate.  For  the  third  add  the  almonds 
and  citron.  The  frosting  for  the  top  should  be  plain.  This  will 
make  two  cakes. 

BUCKEYE  CAKE. 

Mrs.   M.   J.    Stoddard. 

|-  cup  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  3  eggs,   li  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 
1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  ^  teaspoon  soda. 
Bake  in  a  long  pan,  and  ice  or  not. 


CAKES.  207 

CARAMEL  CAKE.  NO.  1. 

Mrs.  John   Sprankel. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  :!  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  3  eggs,  3 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspt)on  vanilla. 

FILLING. 

Boil  together  for  12  minutes  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk 
and  butter^  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  1 
teaspoon  vanilla  and  beat  until  creamy.  Spread  between  the  layers 
and  on  top. 

CARAMEL  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  Margaret  Murphy. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar.  1.}  cups  flour,  1  cup  cornstarch,  1 
cup  milk,  whites  of  7  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla. 

Bake  in  a  long  pan  or  in  layers. 

CARAMEL. 

Mix  thoroughly  }  pound  grated  chocolate,  i  pound  brown 
srigar,  i-  cup  milk,  "butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 
Cook  until  the  syrup  looks  thick  enough,  and  spread  quickly. 

CARDS. 
Mrs.  B.  E.  Winters. 

\  pound  butter,  ^  pound  sugar,  i  pound  flour,  2  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,   1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

Roll  out,  cut  in  squares,  lay  an  almond  on  top  of  each,  put  in 
buttered  pans,  brush  tops  with  white  of  egg,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

Mrs.     Thomas    Breckenridge. 

i  cup   butter,    1    cup   sugar,    \   cup   milk.    1   well   beaten   egg.   2 
ounces  melted  chocolate,  2J^  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Rollvery  thin,  cut.  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  LOAF  CAKE. 

Miss   Kate   Hazelton. 

h  cup  butter.  U  cups  sugar,  i  cup  milk.  IJ  cups  flour,  yolks  of 
4  eggs,  2  ounces  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  eggs :  dissolve  the 
chocolate  in  5  tablespoons  boiling  water,  add  it  and  the  milk,  and 
lastly  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  45  minutes. 

CHOCOLATE  AL\RSHMALLOW  CAKE. 

Miss    Beall    Ewing. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  milk.  I  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  3  squares 
chocolate,  U  cups  flour,   1   small  ralf  teaspoon  soda. 


208  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

Beat  up  half  the  sugar  with  the  eggs,  add  half  the  milk  and 
the  flour  with  which  the  soda  has  been  previously  sifted.  Melt 
the  chocolate,  add  the  remaining  sugar  and  milk  and  the  butter  and 
cook  until  beginning  to  thicken ;  then  add  it  to  the  batter  already 
made.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when  done  cover  with 
marshmallows  torn  in  half  and  then  spread  with  a  good  caramel 
icing.     Bake   in   layers   or    in   a   sheet. 

CHOCOLATE  NOUGAT  CAKE. 

Bake  a  layer  cake  with  chocolate  in  the  batter ;  put  together 
with  boiled  icing  with  almonds  in  and  stick  halved  almonds  on  top. 

CHRISTMAS  NUT  CAKES. 

I  cup  butter,  2  cups   sugar,   1   cup   milk,  3  cups   flour,   3  eggs, 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  of  blanched  and  chopped  nuts. 
Bake  in  small  tins  and  ice  with  vanilla  icing. 

CINNAMON   WAFERS. 

1  pound  sugar,  \  pound  butter,  3  eggs,  J  teaspoon  soda.  2  table- 
spoons ground  cinnamon,  flour  enougli  for  stiff  batter.  Roll  very 
thin,  cut  and  bake  quickly. 

COCKLES. 
Mrs.  H.    C   Begland 

2  ounces  flour,  2  ounces  corn  flour,  1  egg.  strawberry  jam,  2 
ounces  butter,  2  ounces  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder. 

Mix  well  and  drop  in  h  teaspoon fuls  on  a  buttered  pan,  bake 
5  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  and  when  cool,  put  2  together  with  the 
jam,  letting  it  show  around  the  edges. 

COCOA  CAKES. 

Miss   Anna    Lawrence. 

1  cup  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  \  cup  cocoa,  ^  cup  water,  1  cup 
flour,  3  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Mix  as  usual,  adding  cinnamon  and  cocoa  last.  Bake  in  gem 
pans. 

COCOANUT   CAKE,   NO.   L 

Mrs.    John    Hoy. 

1  cup  butter,  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  4J  cups  flour,  4 
well  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  grated  cocoanut,  2  heaping  teaspoons 
baking  powder. 

Bake  in  a  loaf   cake  pan. 


CAKES.  209 

COCOAXUT   CAKE,   NO.  2. 

Mrs.   Alta   Hoskins. 

J  cup  butter,  2  scant  cups  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  whites  of 
2,  1  cup  milk,  3^  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers.  Cover  with  boiled  icing  and  sprinkle  with 
cocoanut. 

COCOANUT   COOKIES. 

Mrs.    David   Evans. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  grated  cocoanut,  2  eggs,  1 
teaspoon   vanilla,   2   teaspoons   baking  powder. 

Add  flour  enough  to   roll   out  thin.     Bake   in   moderate   oven. 

COCOANUT  GINGER  CAKES. 

IJ  ounces  flour,  U  ounces  rice  flour,  2  ounces  butter,  2  ounces 
powdered  sugar,  1  gill  molasses,  i  ounce  ginger,  1  ounce  grated 
cocoanut,  grated  rind  of  ^  lemon. 

Boil  the  molasses  and  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  all  the  other 
material  and  stir  briskly  for  5  minutes.  Butter  a  pastry  tin  and 
drop  the  mixture  in  with  a  tablespoon.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
20  minutes. 

COCOANUT   MACAROONS. 

"Oakland." 

1  pound  grated  cocoanut,  1}  pounds  pulverized  sugar,  6  whites 
of  egg-,  a  little  oil  of  lemon. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  cocoanut  and  brown  them  a  little  over 
the  fire;  add  the  flavoring  and  the  eggs  well  beaten,  drop  on  well 
buttered  pans  with  a  teaspoon.     Bake  in  cold  oven. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    James    R.    Lanning. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  strong  cofYee,  3  eggs,  1  cup 
raisms,  i  teaspoon  all  kinds  of  spices,  1^  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
i  cup  milk,   Hour  enough   for   a  smooth   batter. 

COFFEE  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Mrs.   Matilda   Sines. 

S  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  J  cup  strong  coffee,  1  square  chocolate,  i  cup  milk,  3  tea- 
spoons  baking  powder,   }   teaspoon   salt. 

Bake  in  a  loaf  cake  pan. 

COFFEE  FRUIT   CAKE,   NO.   1. 

Mrs.   Marion  Wallace. 

1  cup  butter  or  lard,  8  cups  sugar,  2  cups  raisins,  2  cups  cur- 
rants, 1  cup  chopped  citron.  4  eggs,  1  pint  black  coffee,  2  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  each  nutmeg  and  allspice,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter. 

14 


210  OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

COFFEE  FRUIT   CAKE.   NO.  2. 

Mrs.   Robert  Wilson. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  cup  hot  coffee,  flour  for 
a  stiff  batter,  2  cups  raisins,  2  cups  currants,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2 
teaspoons  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  each  cloves  and  allspice. 

Bake  2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

COFFEE  LAYER  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Port     Slatzer. 

^  cup  butter,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  J  cup  molasses,  ^  cup  strong 
coffee,  2  cups  flour,  J  teaspoon  salt,  1^  teaspoons  mixed  spices,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  eggs. 

Bake  in  laj^ers.  Put  together  with  boiled  icing  made  with 
coffee  instead  of  water. 

COOKIES,  NO.   1. 
Mrs.   Richard  Jones. 

2  quarts  flour,  1  full  cup  lard,  2^  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk 
or  buttermilk,   1  teaspoon   soda,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  as  for  pie  crust  and  roll  thin.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon. 

COOKIES,  NO.  2. 

J  cup  sour  cream,  1^  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  J  tea- 
spoon soda,  I  nutmeg  grated,  flour  to  roll  thin.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

CREAM  DROP  CAKES. 

1  cup  rich  sour  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  ^  teaspoon  soda, 
flavor  to  taste,  enough   flour  to  stiffen. 

Drop  from  the  spoon  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Grandy. 

^  cup  butter,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  hot  water,  3  eggs.  Filling: 
1  cup  milk,  J  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  flour.  Flavoring  to 
taste. 

Boil  the  water  and  butter  together,  and  stir  in  1  cup  sifted 
flour.  Take  off  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste.  When  cool,  add  3  un- 
beaten eggs  and  beat  5  minutes.  Drop  by  tablespoons  into  a 
greased  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  2-5  minutes.  Cook  the  fill- 
ing thoroughly  and  flavor.  When  both  are  cool,  open  the  puffs 
at  one  side  and  fill. 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    M.    Breeze. 

1  cup  sugar.  11  cups  flour,  J  cup  sweet  cream,  1  teaspoon  bak- 
ing  powder,    1    teaspoon    lemon    extract,    2    eggs,    a   pinch    of    salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  together  in  a  cup  and  fill  up  the  cup  with 
cream.     ]\Iix  and  bake  quickly. 


CAKES.  211 

CROSTRI. 

Get  quite  liot  in  a  saucepan  without  hoiling  '^  cup  milk,  IJ- 
tablespoons  white  sugar,  4  tablespoons  butter,  1  saltspoon  salt  and 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  bowl,  and  add  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
then  mix  in  little  by  little  6  cups  sifted  flour,  and  2  saltspoons 
baking  powder.  Place  on  a  floured  board,  and  knead  vigorously 
for  lU  minutes,  return  to  bowl  and  let  stand  35  minutes."  Divide 
the  batter  into  18  equal  balls,  roll  out  as  thin  and  round  as  pos- 
sible, and  let  stand  15  minutes  more.  Fry  in  very  hot  lard  mixed 
with  a  little  butter,  until  a  good  brown.  Take  out  with  a  skimmer, 
drain  on  a  cloth,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  They  will 
keep   several   days. 

CRULLERS,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    B.   Leonard. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  sour  milk,  3  eggs,  2  level  teaspoons  soda, 
6  tablespoons  melted  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  flour  enough  for  soft 
dough.      Flavoring  to   taste. 

Roll   out,   cut   in  rings,  and   fry  in   boiling  lard. 

CRULLERS,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.   Hugh   Ewing. 

5  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  1  spoon  rose- 
water,  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  other  ingredients  beating 
the  eggs  separately,  roll  lightly  into  a  sheet  J  inch  thick,  cut 
with  jagging  irons  into  long,  narrow  strips,  twist  and  frv  in  boiling 
lard. 

CRUMB   CAKE,    NO.    1. 

Mrs.    Eva    Eberts. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  lard,  3  cups  flour,  3  eggs,  1  pint  buttermilk, 
1   teaspoon  soda,   1  teaspoon  of  each  kind  of  spices. 

Crumb  together  the  sugar,  lard  and  flour  as  for  pies.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  the  buttermilk,  add  the  snices  and  eggs,  beat  up  well, 
and  add  to  the  dry  mixture.     BaJ<e  in  a  deep,  well  greased  pan.' 

CRUMB    CAKE,   NO.   2. 

Mrs.  Cuthbert  Long. 

3  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar,  |  cup  butter  or  lard,  1  egg,  1  cup 
currants,  1  teaspoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  U  cups  sour  milk  or  hot  water. 

Rub  together  flour,  sugar  and  butter;  take  out  one  cupful  of 
mixture  and  set  it  aside.  Now  add  the  effg  well  beaten,  the  soda 
dissolved  in  the  milk,  the  currants  and  spices.  Beat  well  together, 
put  in  a  greased  pan.  and  sprinkle  the  cupful  of  drv  mixture  over 
the  top,  pressing  it  down  lightly  with  a  spoon.  Bake  40  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


212  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

CRUMB  CAKES. 

Mrs.   Velma   Hite. 

1  pound  lard,  2  cups  sugar,  1  pint  molasses,  6  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon ginger,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  table- 
spoon  soda,  2  pints  bread   crumbs. 

Mix  a  stiff  batter,  and  bake  in  muffin  pans. 

CUP  CAKE,  NO.  1. 
Mrs.   Rachel  Johnson. 

1   cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3J  cups  flour,   1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  cup   milk,   3   eggs,   3   teaspoons   baking  powder,   a   pinch   of   salt. 

Bake  in  a  loaf  cake  pan.  If  wanted  for  layer  cake,  use  only 
3  cups  flour. 

CUP  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.   Emma  Breeze. 

I  cup  butter,  2J  cups  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  4 
eggs,  3  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately,  adding  the 
whites  last.     Use  any  flavoring  desired. 

CURRANT  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Joe    Williams. 

1  cup  lard  or  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  large  cup  water,  lemon  or 
vanilla  essence,  1  box  currants,  3  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  4  eggs  beaten  together. 

Save  the  white  of  1  egg,  and  add  3  tablespoons  sugar  for 
frosting.     Bake  in  a  loaf  cake  pan. 

CURRANT  SCONES. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Taylor. 

Take  1  pound  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  pow- 
dered sugar,  \  pound  currants,  1  teaspoon  each  soda  and  cream 
tartar,  and  1  cup  buttermilk.  Rub  the  butter  in  the  flour,  add 
the  other  ingredients,  the  buttermilk  last ;  mix  very  quickly,  roll 
out  on  a  floured  board,  divide  in  3  pieces,  form  each  into  a  round 
scone,  flatten  with  the  hand,  place  on  a  tin,  and  either  brush  with 
beaten  egg,  or  sprinkle  with  flour.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  10  min- 
utes. If  sweet  milk  is  used,  double  the  cream  tartar.  Pile  on  a 
plate  to  serve.     Or  bake  on  a  greased  griddle. 

CUSTARD  CAKE. 

Mrs.  C.   A.  Barrow. 

1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  3 
cups  flour,  3  eggs,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  and  bake  in  layers.  Make  a  custard  of  i  pint  milk,  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  and  1  teaspoon  flour.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon 
extract,  or  put  nuts  in.     Spread  on  the  layers,  and   frost  with  the 

2  whites  of   egg  and   enough   sugar  to  stiffen. 


CAKES.  213 

DATE  COOKIES. 

Miss  McMath. 

1  cup  sugar,  3  cup  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  1  cup  chopped  dates,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  1 
teaspoon   soda,   a   little   salt   and  nutmeg. 

Mix  well  and   drop  on  well  buttered  tins. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  :]  cup  sweet  milk,  I  teaspoon  soda, 
3  cups  flour,  whites  of  6  eggs,  yolks  of  3.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
flavor  to  taste.      15ake  in  a  loaf  or  in  layers. 

DEVIL  CAKE. 

Mrs.   R.  H.   Webb. 

1  cup  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  5  cup  grated  chocolate  wet  with  1 
tablespoon  hot  water,  5  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  ^  tea- 
spoon each  cinnamon  and  allspice. 

Put  together  witli  a  chocolate  caramel    filling. 

DEVILS'  FOOD,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.  Margaret  Bailey. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  4  cups  sifted  flour,  1  cup 
buttermilk,  2  eggs,  ^  cake  grated  chocolate  or  4  tablespoons  cocoa, 
1  teaspoon  soda,   1   cup  raisins. 

Beat  well  and  bake  in  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  Put  together 
with  a   chocolate   caramel   filling. 

DEVILS'  FOOD,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  Martha   Ross. 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  1  cake 
sweetened   chocolate,   1   teaspoon   soda,    1    cup  buttermilk. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  buttermilk  and  the  chocolate  in  a 
little  hot  water.  Bake  in  lavers,  and  put  together  with  a  caramel 
filling. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs.    Calvin    Essex. 

1  cup  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  egg,  flour 
enough  to  roll  soft,  1  level  teaspoon  soda.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the 
milk,   mix,  roll  out,   cut  and   fry  in   boiling   fat. 

fiCLAlRS. 
"Dainty    Dishes." 

Put  1  cup  boiling  water  and  i  cup  butter  in  a  large  saucepan 
and  when  it  boils  turn  in  1  pint  flour.  Beat  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  when  cold  break  into  it  5  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  beating  hard.     Spread   on   buttered    sheets   in   oblong   pieces 


214  OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

about  4  inches  long  and  1^  wide.  Put  about  four  inches  apart. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  25  minutes.  Ice  with  vanilla  or  choco- 
late frosting.  When  the  icing  is  cold,  slit  the  sides  and  fill  them 
with  whipped  cream  or  a  good  custard. 

EDITH   CAKE. 

Mrs.    Hugh    Ewing. 

i  pound  sugar,  ^  pound  butter,  J  pound  flour,  ^  teaspoon  soda, 
6  eggs,  1  wine  glass  sherry,  1  wine  glass  rosewater,  1  teaspoon 
cream  tartar. 

Mix  the  butter  with  §  the  flour,  beat  sugar  and  yolks  together, 
the  whites  separately,  then  mix  them  alternately  with  the  flour  and 
butter.  Add  the  liquor  and  sift  the  soda  and  cream  tartar  with 
the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  add  last. 

EGOLESS  CAKE,  NO.  1. 

Miss    Cecilia   Sweeney. 

J   cup  butter,   1^  cups  sugar,  3  cups   flour,   1   cup   sour  milk,   1 
cup  minced  raisins,  i-  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  soda. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

EGOLESS  CAKE,   NO.  2. 

Mrs.    W.   M.    Irwin. 

li  cups  sugar,  I  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk,  3  cups  flour,  ^ 
teaspoon  soda,  •}  teaspoon  nutmeg,  }  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  cup 
raisins   chopped  and  floured. 

EGOLESS  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Peter   Waldie. 

2  cups  sugar,  5  cup  butter,  4  cups  flour,  2  cups  buttermilk,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  1  pound  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoon  each  kind  of 
spices.     Bake  in  loaf  or  layer  pans. 

ELECTION   CAKE. 
"Boston     Cooking     School." 

^  cup  butter,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  \  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  bread 
dough,  i  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  egg,  8  figs  chopped  fine,  IJ  cups 
flour,  l~  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^ 
teaspoon  each,  cloves,  mace  and  nutmeg. 

Work  the  butter  into  the  dough  with  the  hand.  Add  the  egg 
well  beaten,  the  sugar  and  milk,  and  the  flour-^  well  mixed  with 
the  other  ingredients.  Put  into  a  well  greased  bread  pan,  cover 
and  let  rise  1  hour  and  a  quarter.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 
Cover  with  a  boiled  milk  frosting. 

ENGLISH  LOAF  CAKE. 

Miss  Hannah  Milgate. 

1  pound  butter,  2  pounds  sugar,  3  pounds  sifted  flour,  6  well 
beaten  eggs,  1  cup  hot  water,  3  teaspoons  soda,  1  tablespoon  cinna- 


CAKES.  215 

mon,  i  nutmeg  grated,  1  pound  currants,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound 
blanched   almonds,   1   cup   chopped   citron   or   lemon   peel. 

Work  the  whole  well  together  with  the  hands,  lastly  addmg 
the  soda  dissolved  in  the  hot  water,  put  into  3  well  buttered  loaf 
pans,  and  bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FAIRY  GIX'GER  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Yoder. 

^  cup  each  butter  and  milk,  1  cup  liglit  brown  sugar,  U  cups 
flour,   2   teaspoons  ginger,   2   teaspoons   baking   powder. 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  milk:  sift  the  other  uigredients  to- 
gether and  add.  Spread  thin  with  a  long  broad-bladed  knife  on 
the  bottom  of  a  new  pan,  buttered  or  floured.  Bake  o  or  6  mm- 
utes  in  a  moderate  oven,  turning  frequently  to  bake  alike.  Cut  in 
squares   while   hot. 

FIG  CAKE. 

1  good  half  cup  butter,  1|  cuns  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk  3 
cups  flour,  n  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  8  eggs,  good  J 
pound  figs,  cut  in  strips. 

Flour  the  figs,  and  bake  in  a  loaf  cake  pan. 

FLORENCE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Jones. 

1  cup  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  }  cup  butter,  whites  of  3  eggs,  2  cups 
flour,    1    teaspoon    baking   powder. 

Bake  in  a  small  loaf  tin  lined  with  buttered  paper. 

FRENXH  MACAROONS. 

"Oakland." 

Blanch  and  pulvcri;^e  1  pound  almonds  :  beat  up  with  2  pounds 
pulverized  sugar  and  12  whites  of  egg.  Drop  with  a  teaspoon  on 
buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a  cold  oven. 

FRIED   CAKES,   NO.    1. 

Mrs.    Joseph    Grandy. 

3  large  potatoes  mashed,  3  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  1  nutmeg  grated,  3  teaspoons  l)aking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  enough   flour  to  roll   out  thin. 

Cut  and   fry  like  doughnuts   in  boiling  lard. 

FRIED   CAKES,   NO.   2. 

Mrs.  Emma  Backus. 

5  cups  flour,  0  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  cups  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  mashed 
potatoes,  2  eggs,  i  grated  nutmeg. 

Beat  the  potatoes  up  hne,  adding  the  milk  gradually  as  it  lor 
table  use. 


216  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

FRUIT  CAKE,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.   Parkinson. 

^  pound  butter,  f  pound  brown  sugar,  |  pound  flour,  1  pound 
currants,  1  pound  raisins,  \  pound  citron,  \  pound  seeded  dates, 
4  eggs,  1  grated  nutmeg,  J  pound  hickory  nuts,  1  tablespoon  cinna- 
mon, ^  cup  sour  cream,  J  teaspoon  cloves,  ^  teaspoon  soda. 

Bake   2^  hours   in   a   slow   oven. 

FRUIT  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Alex.    Porter. 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter- 
milk, 5  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  lemon 
extract,  1  box  seeded  raisins,  1  box  currants,  1  teaspoon  each  cin- 
namon,  cloves  and  allspice,   flour   for  thick  batter. 

Flour  the  currants  and  raisins  adding  them  last.  Beat  the 
eggs  separately,  and  use  flour  enough  for  a  fairly  stiff  batter. 

FRUIT  CUP  CAKE. 

Mrs.   Matilda   Sines. 

1  cup  sugar,  }  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  J-  cup  raisins,  ^  cup  currants,  \  teaspoon  salt,  h 
teaspoon  nutmeg,  }  teaspoon  cloves,   1  cup   milk. 

Bake  about  |  hour. 

FRUIT   DROP   CAKES. 

Mrs.    Lizzie   Ward. 

1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  .3  cups  flour,  4  eggs.  •}  pound 
raisins,  \  pound  currants,  \  pound  citron,  \  teaspoon  soda,  1  tea- 
spoon  each   of   all   kinds   of   spices,   a   little  brandy. 

Bake  in  gem  pans. 

FRUIT  LAYER  CAKE. 

Mrs.  H.  Moellencamp. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk,  4  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon cinnamon,  1  pound  raisins,  2  pounds  currants,  \  pound 
chopped  citron,  2  teaspoons  soda,   flour  enough   for   stiff  batter. 

I3ake    in   layers    and   put   together   with    white   icing. 

GENOESE  CAKE. 

Make  1  layer  of  any  delicate  cake.  When  done,  glaze  the 
surface  with  white  of  egg,  sprinkle  over  it  2  tablespoons  finely 
chopped  almonds,  over  these  1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  return 
to  the  oven  for  '^  minuter  until  nicely  browned.  Turn  on  to  ;: 
plate    with   a    folded    napkin,    and    serve   hot. 


CAKES.  217 

GENTLEMEN'S  GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs.    Nye. 

^  pound  butter,  }  pound  sugar,  yolks  of  12  eggs,  h  pound  flour, 
§  glass  of  brandy,  IJ-  wineglass  wine,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon,  1  grated,  nutmeg,  2  large  tablespoons  cinnamon,  6  table- 
spoons ginger. 

Beat  thoroughly,  spread  very  thin  on  buttered  pans,  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  and  cut  in  squares  while  warm. 

GERMAN  BISCUITS. 

\  cup  butter,  J  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  1  egg,  \  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  jam. 

Make  into  a  very  stiff  paste,  work  well  together,  roll  out  \ 
inch  thick,  cut  into  rounds,  put  on  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven.  Remove,  spread  with  jam,  stick  2  together ;  ice  with 
white  icing,  and  decorate  with  colored  sugar,  or  candied  fruit. 
Or  the  cakes   may  be  split   and   spread,  etc. 

GERMAN  COOKIES. 

Miss   I>ella   Hoy. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  21  cups  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  1  cup  English  walnut  meats,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  ^  cup 
coffee,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon. 

Beat  all  together  well :  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GINGERBREAD,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.   Joseph   Turner. 

.  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour  milk,  2 
well  beaten  eggs,  2  teaspoons  soda,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons 
ginger,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  cup  raisins,  flour  enough  for  a 
stiff  batter. 

GINGERBREAD,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.   Wm.    Stephenson. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  buttermilk,  1  cup  baking  molasses,  2  eggs, 
1  tablespoon  pinger,  1  teasporwi  soda,  flour  enough  for  a  smooth 
batter. 

Mix,  putting  the  soda  in  the  buttermilk,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

GINGERBREAD,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.   •Frank    Hoy. 

1  cup  lard,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  a  pinch  of  salt,  li 
tablespoons  ginger,  2  eggs,  1  cup  sour  milk,  3  cups  flour,  1  table- 
spoon baking  soda. 

GINGERBREAD  LOAF. 

Miss  Daisy   M.  Tucker. 

2\  cups  sugar,  1}  cups  molasses,  1  tablespoon  lard,  2  cups 
buttermilk,  3  eggs,  1^  tablespoons  ginger,  1  teaspoon  soda,  flour 
for  medium  batter. 


218  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

GINGERBREAD  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  \  cup  brown  sugar, 
2  cups  molasses,  2  cups  water  or  sour  milk,  li^  teaspoons  soda, 
flour  for  a  soft  batter. 

Stir  up   quickly  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    Chas.    Evans. 

1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  4  teaspoons 
soda,  1  cup  lard  or  butter,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
flour   enough   to   roll  out. 

Mix  well  and  let  stand  over  night ;  in  the  morning  roll  out, 
cut  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

GINGER  DROP  CAKES. 

Mrs.    J.    W.    Brumage. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  \  cup  cold  water, 
?.  cup  molasses,  1  egg,  1  large  tablespoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
flour  for  a  thick  batter. 

Drop  by  teaspoons  in  a  well  greased  pan,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

GINGER  SNAPS,  NO.  1. 

Miss   H.    C.    Van    Meter. 

1  cup  butter  or  lard,  1  cup  sugar,  1  pint  N.  O.  molasses, 
H  tablespoons  ginger,  \  tablespoon  soda  in  hot  water,  3  pints 
flour  or   enough   to  stiffen. 

Roll   out   thin   and   bake.      The   dough   will   keep   seve  "al    days. 

GINGER  SNAPS,  NO.  2. 

i  pound  butter  or  lard,  \  pound  brown  sugar,  2  pounds  flour, 
1   pint  milk,  1  large  tablespoon   ground  ginger,   a   dash  of  cayenne. 

Rub  the  butter  and  flour  thoroughly  together ;  add  the  other 
dry  ingredients,  mix  well,  and  add  slowly  the  milk ;  knead  and 
roll  out  into  a  very  thin  sheet ;  cut  with  a  small  round  cutter, 
and  bake   in   a  moderate   oven   untij   a  light   brown. 

GINGER  SNAPS,  NO.  3. 

jMrs.     Guy    Bigum. 

1  can  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  heaping 
tablespoon  ginger,  1  heaping  tablespoon  soda,  1  cup  hot  coffee, 
flour  enough   for   a   stiff   dough. 

Mix  well,  dissolving  the  soda  in  the  coffee,  roll  out  thin,  cut 
and  bake. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

Mrs.    B.    D.    Jaggi. 

\  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  J  cup  sour  milk,  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  ^  teaspoon 
soda. 


CAKES.  219 


HERMITS. 


1  cup  sugar,  n  cup  butter,  U  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  1  level  teaspoon 
soda,  1  pound  chopped  English  walnuts,  1  pound  blanched  and 
chopped  almonds,  1  pound  seeded  raisins,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1 
teaspoon   cinnamon.     Bake   in   drop   cakes. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE,  NO.  1. 

Miss  A.    C.    Murphy. 

J  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
1  pint  hickory  nut  meats,  s  cup  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE.  NO.  2. 

2  cups  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour.  1  large 
cup  chopped  hickorj-  nuts,  5  whites  of  egg,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder,    l\   teaspoons    vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  other  ingredients,  beating  well. 
Lastly  add  the  whites  of  egg  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  layers  15 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.      Put  together  with   boiled   icing. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKES. 

Mrs.    Thos.    Lynch. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  egg,  1  cup  nuts  sliced  line. 
Mix   and    drop    on    buttered   tins.      Bake    in    a    quick   oven. 

HONEY  CAKE. 

1    cup   butter,   2   cups   honey,    i  cup    sour   milk,    t    well    licaten 

eggs,  1  tablespoon  lemon  essence,  1  teaspoon  soda,  flour  for  a 
very  stiff  batter. 

Bake  at  once   in   a  quick   oven  m   a   loaf   cake   pan. 

HONEY  CAKES. 

1  quart  strained  honey,  I  pound  powdered  sugar,  J  pound 
butter,  juice  of  2  oranges  or  lemons,  1  grated  nutmeg,  2  pounds 
or  less  flour. 

Make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  easily:  beat  well  all 
over  with  a  rolling  pin :  roll  i  inch  thick ;  cut  with  a  tumbler 
dipped   frequently   in   flour,   lay   on  buttered   tins   and   bake   well. 

HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  h  cup  milk,  1  egg.  1  teaspoon 
soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  cups  flour, 
1   pint  huckleberries. 

Dredge  and  add  the  berries  last  and  liake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Good  hot  or  cold. 


220  OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

.      JAM  CAKE,  N'O.  1. 

Mrs.  Frank   Spurgeon. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  6  eggs,  6  table- 
spoons sour  milk,  1^  cups  jam,  2  teaspoons  soda,  2  grated  nutmegs, 
1    teaspoon   each   allspice   and    cinnamon. 

Bake  in  four  layers  witl:  frosting  between.  If  desired  the 
jam  may  be  used   for  a   filling. 

JAM   CAKE,   NO.   2. 

Mrs.     Samuel    Auker. 

J  cup  butter  or  lard,  2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  cup  buttermilk, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  glass  blackberry  jam,  1  teaspoon  each 
nutmeg,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  1  cup  raisins,  1  level  teaspoon 
soda  in  the  milk.     Bake  in  a  loaf  cake. 

JELLY  CAKE. 

Miss   Nellie   Alvis. 

I  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk,  3^  cups  flour,  1 
teaspoon  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  2  eggs,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  1 
teaspoon  soda,   1  glass   tart  jelly,  \  teaspoon   cloves. 

Bake  in  layers,  and  put  together  with  the  jelly. 

JELLY  JUMBLES. 

Mrs.    Elizabeth   Yoder. 

-J  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  \  teaspoon  salt,  1  well  beaten  egg, 
\  teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk,  }  cup  sour  milk,  flour  for  a  soft 
dough. 

Mix  and  let  chill  on  ice.  Pat  into  shape,  a  small  piece  at  a 
time,  cut  with  a  round  cutter,  cut  3  holes  in  half  the  rounds  with 
a  thimble.  Spread  the  plain  rounds  with  jelly,  cover  with  the 
others,  press  the  edges  together  slightly,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

JELLY  ROLL,  NO.  1. 

Miss  Mary  Mahley. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  |  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  3  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  sweet  milk,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2 
teaspoons  vanilla   or  lemon   flavoring. 

Beat  together  until  very  light,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
When  done,  turn  out  on  a  damp  cloth.  Trim  off  the  crusty  edges, 
spread   quickly   with   any   tart   jelly,    and   roll. 

JELLY  ROLL,  NO.  2. 

Miss     Emma     Keller. 

2  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  a 
little  salt,  enough   hot   water   for   thin   batter. 

Stir  all  together  adding  the  water  last.  When  baked  turn 
on  a  damp  cloth,  spread  with  any  tart  jelly,  and  roll.  This  must 
be  baked  in  a  very  long,  shallow  pan,  or  else  cut  through  the 
middle  so  it  will  roll.     Use  plenty  of  jelly. 


CAKES.  221 

JELLY  ROLL,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.   P.  J.  Clancy. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  table- 
spoons  sweet  milk,  3  eggs. 

Bake  in  a  sheet,  cut  through  the  niicklle,  spread  both  halves 
with  some  tart  jelly,  and  roll   w^iile  warm. 

JUMBLES. 

"Oakland." 

1   pound  butter,   1   pound  pulverized   sugar,   1}  pounds   flour,   1 
gill   rosewater,  5  eggs,   lemon   flavoring. 
.    Lay  on  lightly  buttered  pans  in  little  rings. 

KELLEY  ISLAND  CAKE. 

Mrs.     Hugh     Shuttleworth. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  J  cup  milk, 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layer  pans.  For  the  filling,  boil  together  4  minutes, 
1  grated  lemon,  1  large,  tart  apple  grated,  1  egg  and  1  cup  sugar. 

KISSES  OR  MERINGUES. 

"Oakland." 

1    pound    pulverized    sugar,    whites    of    6    eggs^  lemon    flavor. 
Beat  the  eggs  very   stiff,  then  stir  in  the  sugar  and  flavoring 
lightly.     Drop  by  large  spoonfuls.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

KOKOSING  COOKIES. 

"A  Friend  in  Need." 

5  eggs,  4  tablespoons  cream,  J  pound  butter,  2  cups  white 
sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  just  flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

Beat  eggs  together.  When  rolled  out  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
roll  again. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE,  NO.  L 

Miss    Emily    L.    Curran. 

^  cup  butter,  U  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  water,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  2}  cups  flour,  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  walnut  meats,  \ 
teaspoon  salt. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  50  minutes.  Cover  with  a 
boiled  white  icing  flavored  w-ith  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice;  press 
into  it  as  fast  as  spread  fresh  or  prepared  cocoanut. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

"Boston  Cooking  School." 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3.V  cups  sifted  flour.  1  cup  milk,  1 
teaspoon  rosewater,  whites  of  6  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  3  layers.  prqsting. 

Dissolve  3  cups  sugar  in  1  cup  boiling  water,  and  boil  until 
it  threads.     Then   pour   slowly   on   the   stiffly   beaten   whites  of   3 


222  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW, 

eggs,  beating  constantly.  Add  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  cup 
chopped  nutmeats,  pecans  preferred,  and  five  figs,  cut  into  thin 
strips.     Spread  between  the  layers  and  all  over  the  cake. 

LADY   FINGERS. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  whites  of  3,  i  cup  powdered  sugar,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  3  cup  flour,  |  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  the  whites  of  egg  and  sugar  stiflf,  then  the  stiff  yolks 
and  vanilla,  lastly  the  flour  sifted  with  the  salt.  Put  a  sheet  un- 
buttered  paper  on  a  tin  sheet,  shape  4^  inches  long  by  1  wide, 
squeezing  through  a  pastry  bag,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
bake  8  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LANCASTER    CAKE. 

Bake  any  good,  delicate  or  white  cake  in  layers.  Put  together 
with  almond  custard  filling. 

LEMON  CAKE. 

Mrs.    James    Alvis. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  5,  whites 
of  4  eggs,  3  fups  flour,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder. 

Bake  quickly  in  layer  tins,  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing 
flavored   with    lemon   juice. 

LEMON  CRACKERS,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    L.    D.    Tucker. 

1  cup  lard,  3  cups  sugar,  1.^-  pints  sweet  milk,  3  eggs,  5  cents 
worth  of  baking  ammonia,  5  cents  worth  of  lemon  oil. 

Dissolve  the  ammonia  in  the  milk ;  cream  sugar  and  lard  to- 
gether, add  the  well  beaten  eggs,  and  the  oil ;  lastly  the  ammonia 
and  milk.  Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  stiff  batter,  roll  out  thin, 
cut  and  bake. 

LEMON  CRACKERS,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  John  S.  Wilson. 

1  pint  sweet  milk,  2^  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  lard,  5  cents 
worth  lemon  oil,  2  heaped  teaspoons  baking  ammonia. 

LEMON  JELLY   CAKE. 

Mrs.     Wilbur    McDonald. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  2J  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  3  layers.     Put  together  with  lemon  filling. 


CAKES.  223 

LIGHT   FRUIT    CAKE. 

Mrs.    David    Evans. 

1  cup  butter,  2  scant  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  thrice 
sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  G  eggs,  \  pound 
chopped  English  walnuts,  2  slices  candied  pineapple  chopped,  ^ 
pound  glace  cherries,  h  cup  grated  cocoanut. 

Seedless  raisins  may  be  used  instead  of,  or  in  addition  to  the 
cherries. 

MADELEINE  AU  CAFfi. 

Filippini. 

^  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter  melted,  1  cup  flour,  4  eggs 
beaten  together,  3  tablespoons  strong  coffee,  \  teaspoon  baking 
powder. 

Beat  the  eggs  together,  beat  in  the  sugar,  add  the  flour  and 
cofifee,  melted  butter  and  baking  powder,  stirring  in  very  lightl3^ 
Grease  a  pastry  tin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  minutes. 
Take  from  the  oven,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  it,  cut 
in  triangular  pieces,  and  serve  hot.  Any  other  variety  of  madeleine 
can  be  made  by  changing  the  flavor. 

MAPLE  SUGAR   CAKE. 

Miss    McMath. 

1   cup  maple  sugar,   1   cup  sour  cream,   \\  cups   flour,   1  egg,   1 
teaspoon  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  cake  pan. 

ALAPLE  SUGAR  CAKES. 

Mrs.    Dick    Spicer. 

1  cup  maple  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  cups  flour,  1  heap- 
ing teaspoon  baking  powder,  an  even  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  sweet 
milk. 

Soften  a  cake  of  maple  sugar  in  the  oven  and  shave  a  cup  of 
thin  slices  from  it.  Granulated  maple  sugar  may  be  used  instead, 
hut  the  texture  will  not  be  the  same.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients, 
then  the  butter,  milk  and  lastly  the  sugar.  Beat  up  quickly,  roll 
out,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  10  minutes. 

MARBLE  CAKE,  NO.  \. 

Mrs.   Henry   Taylor. 

Light  Part. 
1  cup  white  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  1|  cups  flour,  whites  of  2  eggs, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  \  nutmeg,  I  cup  tjiilk. 

Dark  Part. 

\  cup  brown  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  yolks  2  eggs, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  -V  cup  molasses.  \  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon 
each   cloves   and  cinnamon. 

Beat  the  light  and  dark  parts  separately,  put  them  into  a  loaf 
cake  pan  in  alternate  spoonfuls,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


224  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

MARBLE  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  Herbert  Minchell. 

Dark  Part. 
Yolks  of  4  eggs,  1   cup  brown  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  1^  cups  flour,  h  cup  milk,  2  ounces  melted  chocolate, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Light  Part. 
\  cup  butter,  1}  cups  white  sugar,  1  cup  water,  2J  cups  flour,  1 
teaspoon   baking   powder,    1   teaspoon   almond   extract,   whites   of  4 
eggs. 

MARBLE  CAKE,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.    Henry    Thompson. 

Light  Part. 
1    cup   butter,   2   cups   white    sugar,    1    cup   sweet   milk,   4   cups 
flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  \  teaspoon  soda,  whites  of  8  eggs. 

Dark  Part. 

i  cup  butter,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  s  cup  milk,  2J  cups  flour, 
1    teaspoon    cream   tartar,    ^  teaspoon    soda,   yolks    of   8   eggs. 

Mix  each  part  separately,  adding  2  teaspoons  each  allspice  and 
cloves,  \  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  4  teaspoons  cinnamon  to  the  dark 
part.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in  layer  pans,  and  put  together 
with  boiled  icing. 

MARGUERITES. 

"Dainty    Dishes." 

15  teaspoons  powdered  sugar,  J  pound  chopped  nuts,  whites  of 
5  eggs  beaten  stiff,  wafers. 

Beat  up  well,  spread  on  square  or  salted  wafers,  and  brown 
in  the  oven.    Or  a  boiled  icing  may  be  made  and  the  nuts  stirred  in. 

MOCHA  CAKE. 

Beat  very  hard  for  5  minutes,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  the  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  \  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  1  tablespoon  very  strong  coffee. 
i\dd  2  tablespoons  sifted  flour,  and  the  stiff  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  a  small  square  layer  cake  pan  for  20  minutes.  When  a 
little  cool,  turn  out  of  pan,  cut  in  two  crosswise,  spread  half  a 
Mocha  Cream  filling  on  the  split  side,'  put  the  cakes  together, 
spread  the  rest  of  the  filling  on  top,  dust  with  sugar,  and  serve 
fresh. 

MOCHA  CAKES. 

"Boston   Cooking    School." 

Bake  a  sponge  cake  in  sheets  ;  cut  in  rounds,  and  slice  each 
round  in  3  pieces  crosswise.  Beat  J  cup  butter  to  a  cream  with  1 
cup  sugar,  and  add  1  cup  cooled  cream  or  custard  filling ;  color 
and  flavor  as  you  choose.  Put  the  slices  together  again  with  a 
thin  layer  of  this  frosting ;  spread  it  over  the  sides  and  roll  in 
shredded  cocoanut.  Spread  the  top,  and  ornament  as  fancifully  as 
possible  with  colored  icing  forced  through  tubes,  candied  fruit,  etc. 


CAKES.  225 

MOLASSES   COOKIES. 

Mrs.    Edith    Campbell. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  f  cup  sour  milk,   1  cup  butter,   1 
teaspoon  ginger.  1  teaspoon  soda,  flour  enough  to  stiffen. 
Roll  out  thin,  cut  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

.MOOXSHINES. 

1  cup  yellow  sugar,  \olks  of  6  eggs,  a  pinch  salt,  flour  for  a 
soft  dough. 

Roll  vcrv  thin,  cut  with  a  tumbler,  drop  into  hot  lard,  and  fry 
quickly.     Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them. 

MOXAHALA  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    Charles   Williams. 

2  cups  soft  white  sugar,  1  cup  luitter  or  lard,  3  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon  soda   in   hot  water,   flavor  to   taste,   flour    for   a   soft   dough. 

NUT   BREAD. 

Mrs.  John  C.   Snee. 

i  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  3';  cups  flour,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
i  cup  chopped  pecans,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  slow  oven. 

NUT  CAKE,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.   Sarah  Cotterman. 

i  cup  butter,  IJ  cups  sugar,  2h  cups  flour,  1}  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  3  eggs,  i  cup  milk.  1  cup  any  kind  of  nutmeats,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla. 

Mix  well  together  in  a  rather  firm  batter,  and  bake  in  a  deep 
paper  lined  pan   in  a  steady  oven   3.5  minutes. 

NUT  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    W.    T.    Sprankel. 

i  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  i-  cup  milk,  2  cups  sifted  flour,  2 
eggs,  1  cup  seeded  and  chopped  raisins.  1  coffee  cup  chopped  Eng- 
lish walnuts,  I  teaspoon  soda.  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Beat  eggs  separately,  add  nuts  and  raisins  last,  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

NUT  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    Joseph    Brooks. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  level  tablespoons  butter.  2  cups  chopped  nuts, 
3  tablespoons  sour  cream,  2  eggs,  \  teaspoon  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough  that  will  roll  out  very 
thin.     Cut  in  rounds  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

15 


2?6  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

OAT  CAKES. 

Mrs.    L.    M.    Call. 

2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  Mother's  Oats,  3  cups  sifted  flour.  2  eggs, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  cup  raisins,  3  tablespoons 
sour  milk,  1  cup  butter. 

Mix  well,  roll  out  thin,  cut  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

OATMEAL  CAKES. 

Mrs.   W.   E.  Thompson. 

i  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  3  cups  oat- 
meal, 2  cups  flour,  J  package  seeded  raisins,  3  eggs,  1  small  cup 
buttermilk.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  even  teaspoon  soda,  a  pinch 
of  salt.     Mix  well,  roll  out  thin,  cut  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

OATMEAL   COOKIES. 

Mrs.    John    D.    Martin. 

1  cup  rolled  oats.  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  melted  butter,  I 
teaspoon  soda  in  hot  water,  2  eggs,  1  cup  raisins.  1  cup  nutmeats, 
flour  enough  to  roll  thin.     Cut  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

OAT^IEAL  MACAROONS. 

Miss  Esther   Bashford. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  susar,  2  ea;2S,  beaten  separately,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2h  cups  rolled  oats. 

Mix  all  together  and  drop  in  small  teaspoons  on  a  buttered 
pan.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 

OHIO   CUP   CAKES. 

Mrs.     Hugh     Ewiiig. 

1   cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar.  4  cups   flour.   1   cup   sour  creain,  5 
eggs,   1   small   teaspoon   ."^oda   in   a  little   warm   water. 
Pake  in  small  pans. 

OLLY   KOEKS. 

Mrs.    Seth    Robinson. 

Make  a  good  doush  for  raised  doughnuts,  roll  i-  inch  thick, 
cut  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter,  let  rise,  and  when  light  roll  down 
a  little,  lay  a  few  raisins  rolled  in  cinnamon  in  the  centre,  wet  the 
edges  with  the  fingers,  double  them  over  and  press  the  edges  firmly 
•together.    Fry  in  boiling  fat. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE. 
Mrs.    T.   J.    Price. 

J  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  e^g,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  2  teaspoGn.s  baking  powder.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


CAKES.  227 

ORAXCiE  CAKE,  XO.   1. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Taylor. 

2  cups  sugar,  5  cuj)  butter,  8  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  I'illing:  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  juice  and 
grated   rind  of  2  oranges,   1   tablespoon   butter. 

ORANGE  CAKE,   XO.  2. 

Mrs.    Lemuel    Rush. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter.  1  cup  sweet  milk,  •■'.  cups  flour, 
yolks  of  5,  whites  of  4  eggs,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange, 
2    teaspoons    baking   powder. 

Bake  in  layers.  I'or  the  fdling,  beat  up  the  white  of  the  Hth 
egg  with  1  tablespoon  sugar,  and  a  little  orange  juice. 

ORANGE  CAKE,   NO.  8. 

Miss     Stella     Turner. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  .]   cup  water,  yolks  of  '>  and  whites 
of  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  juice  and   rind  of   1   orange. 
Bake  in  layers  and  use  orange  icing. 

ORANGE   LOAF   CAKE. 

Mrs.    Goldie    Hoy. 

i  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar.  2  cups   flour.  5  eeJTs,  2   teaspoons 
bakinff  powder,  }  cup  oransre  juice,  grated   rind  of    1    orange. 
Mix  and  bake  in  a  loaf  cake. 

ORANGE  MADELEINE. 

I\Iake  1  layer  of  any  good  delicate  cake,  seasoning  with  lemon 
or  orange  juice.  Turn  upside  down  on  a  cloth,  spread  orange 
marmalade  over  it,  and  snread  this  again  with  orange  glaze.  A 
little  finely  chonped  ni'^tachio  nuts  is  a  good  addition,  sprinkled 
over  the  top.     Serve  hot. 

ORANGE  WAFERS. 

}  cup  butter,  J  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  orange 
juice,  and  the  grated  peel  of  1  orange,  1  scant  cup  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon  baking  pow'der. 

Chill  the  ingredients,  mix  well,  roll  very  thin,  put  a  piece  of 
candied  orange  peel  on  the  top  of  each  wafer,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

PAINESVTT.LE   SEMINARY   GINGERBREAD. 

Miss    Prescott. 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter.  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  1 
teasroon  cinnamon,  4  cups  flour.  1  cup  sour  milk,  2  teaspoons  soda, 
1  teasfoon   fri'T^er. 

Bake  in  shallow  pans  and  serve  hot.  Dissolve  the  soda  in 
hot  water,  but,  if  sweet  milk  is  used,  take  baking  powder  instead. 


228  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

PEACH  BLOSSOM  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Jas.    O'Donnell,    Jr. 

1  cup  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  whites  of  3  eggs,  flour  for  not  too 
stiff  batter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  scant  cup  milk,  pink 
sugar,  ahnond  extract. 

Beat  the  cake  well,  bake  Iialf  in  2  layers,  add  enough  red 
sugar  to  get  the  desired  coloring  in  the  second  half,  bake  that 
in  2  layers,  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing. 

PEACH   LAYER  CAKE. 

Take  any  good  layer  cake  recipe.  Spread  white  icing  over 
a  layer,  then  cover  with  thin  slices  of  ripe  peaches  ;  put  a  second 
layer  of  the  cake  over  this,  which  treat  in  the  same  way.  When 
the  top  layer  is  on  dust  it  with  powdered  sugar.  Apricots  or 
berries  may  lie  used  in  place  of  peaches,  and  preserved  fruit  in- 
stead of  the  fresh. 

PEANUT  COOKIES. 

2  heaping  tablespoons  butter,  .]-  cup  sugar,  1  Qgs:,.  1  cup  flour, 
1  tablespoon  milk,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  I  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup 
finely   chopped  peanuts. 

Drop  with  tlie  spoon  onto  buttered  tins.  \i  the  recipe  is 
doubled,  do  not  double  soda  or  cream  tartar. 

PHIL  SHERIDAN  CAKE. 

"Buckeye     Cook     Book." 

4  cups  confectioner's  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1.^  cups  sweet  milk, 
5  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar, 
whites  of  16  eggs. 

PINEAPPLE   CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  l  cun  milk.  3  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  6  eggs  beaten  separately. 

Mix  well  and  bake  in  layers.  Make  a  thick  boiled  icing  add- 
ing the  juice  of  1  orange.  Spread  thickly  over  thv=  layers,  and 
sprinkle  with  grated  pineapple.  Best  eaten  fresh,  or  served  in  one 
laver. 

PLAIN   CAKE. 

Mrs.    Margaret    Price. 

^  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  .}  cup  milk.  2  eggs,  nutmeg  to  taste, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  flour  enough 
for  a  soft  batter. 

POLISH  CROQUETTES. 

Filippini. 

Beat  well  together  the  whites  of  ?>  egp-s.  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
]\  ounces  chopped  almonds,  U  ounces  si-^ted  flour  and  i  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Butter  and  flour  a  pastrv  pan.  Take  a  tablespoon  of  the 
mixture  and  lightly  roll  in  powdered  sugar  to  a  croquette  form; 
put  in  the  pan.  When  all  are  done,  bake  in  the  Oven  10  minutes 
or  until  a  golden  brown.     Serve  at  once. 


CAKES.  229 

POOR  MAX'S  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Rice. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  lard,  1  cup  buttermilk,  1  large  cup 
raisins  and  currants,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  mixed  ground 
spices,    1}   cups   flour. 

Mix  and  beat  well.  This  makes  2  layers.  For  tilling,  take  1 
cup  buttermilk,  1  cup  sugar,  and  boil  to  a  thick  syrup.  Spread  on 
the  outside  also. 

PORK  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Howell   Thomas. 

1  pound  salt  fat  pork,  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  Orleans  molasses, 
7  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  soda,  1  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  allspice,  1  pint  boiling  water,  2  pounds  raisins,  1  pound 
currants,   1   pound   almonds,   J   pound   citron,   |   pound   lemon   peel. 

Grind  the  pork  well ;  mix  and  bake  4  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 
This   will   make   2   large   cakes. 

POUND  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Hugh    Ewing. 

1  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  sifted  flour,  yolks  of 
12  eggs,  whites  of  0,  1  teaspoon  grated  nutineg,  1  teaspoon  essence 
of  lemon. 

Bake  1  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

Queen  Pound  Cake  requires  the  addition  of  1  wine  glass 
rosewater,  wine  and  brandy,  and   1   handful  currants. 

PRINCE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Eberts. 

Ti  cup  butter,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  buttermilk.  '^  cups  flour, 
2  cups  raisins,  4  eggs,  4  tablespoons  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  J  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon 
soda  in  milk,  and  1  in  flour. 

Bake  in   layers,  using  a   caramel    filling. 

PRINCE  OF  WALES  CAKE. 

Mrs.    P.    W.    Weymueller. 
BL.^CK  P.\KT. 

h  cup  butter,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  h  cup  sour  milk.  1  cup  flour, 
i  cup  cornstarch,  yolks  of  :^  eggs,  h  teaspoon  soda  in  warm  water. 
1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 

WItlTE   P.\RT. 

I  cup  butter,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk.  1  cup 
flour,  \  cup  cornstarch,  wh.ites  of  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der.   1   teaspoon   of  almond  or   vanilla   flavoring. 

Take  each  r.art  in  2  layers.  Put  together  alternately  with  al- 
mond   cream    filling. 

.liLMONn    CKEAM     KII.LIXG. 

Blanch  and  pound  to  a  paste  1  pound  of  almonds ;  add  1  coffee 
cup  sweet  cream,  2  tablespoons  corns'arch  scalded  in  a  little  sweet 


230  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

milk,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  and  a  little  almond  extract.  Beat  well 
together.  Spread  between  the  layers.  The  top  may  be  frosted 
with  plain  frosting  if  desired. 

PUFF  BALL  DOUGHNUTS. 

^Irs.    Rose    Wallace. 

Beat  3  eggs  very  li.'lit,  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  pint  sweet  milk,  salt 
and  nutmeg  to  taste,  and  enough  flour  to  permit  the  spoon  to  stand 
upright  in  the  batter.  Sift  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  the  flour. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  fat. 

QUEEN  CHARLOTTE'S  CAKE. 

Mrs.   E.   S.   Martin. 

Set  a  sponge  with  1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  1  teacup  warm  milk, 
and  1  cake  of  yeast,  or  2  tablespoons  of  liquid  yeast  with  half  a 
teaspoon  salt.  Let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  till  very  light.  Then 
add  i  pound  of  butter  and  :}  pound  powdered  sugar,  beaten  to  a 
cream,  4  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  i  pound  candied  peel  cut  fine,  1  teaspoon 
powdered  cinnamon,  and  a  small  cup  of  blanched  and  chopped 
almonds.  Let  stand  J  hour,  and  then  bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  While  still  hot,  prick  holes  with  a  sharp  knife  and  pour  in  a 
syrup  made  of  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  large  tablespoon  of  water 
boiled  together  five  minutes.  Cover  the  top  of  the  cake  with  harle- 
quin comfits,  or  dust  it  thick  with  powdered  sugar. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

1  pint  milk,  \  cup  butter,  \  cup  lard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup 
A'east,  'Ih  cups  sugar,  4  well  beaten  eggs,  "J  teaspoons  cinnamon,  a 
little  nutmeg,   flour  as   needed. 

Warm  the  milk,  stir  into  it  the  salt,  yeast,  shortening  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Set  near  the  stove  to  rise.  When 
light  work  in  the  sugar,  eggs  and  spices  ;  add  flour  until  not  quite 
as  stiff  as  bread,  kneading  well ;  let  rise  again  until  very  light, 
roll  out  thin  and  cut  into  small  round  cakes.  Fry  in  hot  lard  and 
sprinkle  sugar  6ver  them. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 

Make  a  layer  cake,  adding  fruit  and  spices  to  h  the  dough. 
Make  the  middle  layer  of  this,  and  put  together  with  boiled  white 
icing. 

RICE    CAKE. 

\  pound  flour,  \  pound  ground  rice,  ',  pound  butter,  \  pound 
sugar,  2  eggs,  l  teaspoon  flavoring,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
\  cup  milk. 

Bake  in  a  greased  and  papered  loaf  cake  pan  H  hours  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


CAKES.  2;;i 

ROCK  CAKES. 

"Oaklanil." 

1  pound  chopped  almonds,  1  ounce  cinnamon,  2U  ounces  pul- 
verized sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs. 

Mix,  form  in  little  steeples,  set  on  buttered  pans,  and  bake  in  a 
very   cold   oven. 

ROSVS  GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs.    George    Justus. 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  3  teacups  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons 
ginger. 

Beat  the  molasses,  sugar  and  eggs  together,  add  butter,  milk 
with  soda  and  flour,  lastly  the  ginger. 

RUSSIAN  ROCKS. 

Miss    Heall    Ewing. 

1]  cups  dark  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  3  cups  flour,  1  pound 
chopped  raisins,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  \ 
cup  hot  water,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  pound 
chopped  nuts. 

Alix  well  together,  drop  with  a  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins,  and 
bake  brown. 

SCOTCH  CURRANT  BUN. 

Mrs.    II.    C.    Begland. 

2  pounds  flour,  \  pound  butter,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  cur- 
rants, i  pound  soft  sugar,  \  ounce  each  cinnamon  and  allspice, 
grated  yellow  rind  1  lemon,  ',  pound  each  candied  orange  and 
lemon  peel,  \  pound  blanched  and  chopped  almonds,  }f  ounce 
ground  ginger,   \  teaspoon   Cayenne   pepper,  h  teaspoon   salt. 

Add  a  little  salt  to  the  flour,  and  mix  with  j-east  and  warm 
water,  as  if  for  bread.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  risen, 
work  into  it  the  butter  slightly  warmed,  and  let  rise  again  for  i 
hour.  Have  the  fruits  prepared  in  advance,  and  slightly  warmed 
when  the  dough  is  ready  for  them.  Mix  the  sugar,  spices,  salt, 
pepper  and  lemon  peel  together  and  work  into  the  dough.  Keep 
the  latter  by  the  fire  to  keep  warm.  Butter  the  baking  tins  and 
heat  them.  Take  out  about  i  the  dough,  mix  it  well  with  the  fruit 
until  smooth.  Roll  out  the  remaining  dough  very  thin,  and  line 
the  pans  with  it,  keeping  a  piece  to  coyer  with.  Fill  in  with  the 
mixture  about  'i  full,  smooth  it  over,  wet  the  edges  of  the  paste 
lining  and  put  on  the  thinly  rolled  covers.  Brush  the  top  with 
beaten  eggs,  prick  it  with  a  fork,  and  pierce  with  a  skewer  in 
several  places  down  to  the  bottom  of  the  tins.  Let  the  buns  stand 
to  rise  again  for  ]  hour,  set  them  in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  for 
2  or  3  hours. 

SCOTCH  SAND  LOAF. 

Miss  H.   C.   Moodie. 

1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  butter,  1  pound  flour,  6  eggs,  1  pint 
milk,  1  cup  citron  and  orange  peel,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
powder. 

Stir  all  together  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


232  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

SCOTCH  SCONES,  No.  1. 

I\rrs.    Janet    Park. 

1  tablespoon  lard,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  currants,  1  table- 
spoon salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  quarts  flour. 

Use  water  fcir  mixing.  Roll  out  like  biscuits,  i  inch  thick,  cut 
into  squares  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  10  or  15  minutes. 

SCOTCH  SCONES,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.     Isabel     Lawson. 

Thoj^oughly  mi.x  while  dry  1  quart  of  sifted  flour  loosely 
nieasurccT  with  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  then  rub  into 
it  a  tablespfon  butter  and  1  teaspoon  salt,  working  the  butter  well 
in.  Add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  very  soft  paste.  Roll  out 
the  paste  about  \  inch  thick,  using  plenty  of  flour  to  roll  with.  Cut 
it  into  triangles  about  4  inches  to  a  side.  Or  cut  round  the  size  of 
a  saucer  and  scar  across  to  form  4  quarters.  Flour  the  sides  and 
bottom  of  a  biscuit  pan,  and  place  the  pieces  on  it.  Bake  imme- 
diately in  a  quick  oven  20  to  30  minutes.  When  half  done  brush 
over  with  sweet  milk. 

SCOTCH  SHORTBREAD. 

Mrs.    Robert   Essex. 

h  pound  butter,  \  pound  sugar,  1  pound  llour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  flour  gradually,  VO/^ 
knead  until  perfectly  smooth.  Divide  into  several  round  or  squarf 
pieces  flattened  out  thin,  pinch  the  edges,  prick  over  with  a  fork, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  nice  brown  color.  Sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar. 

SEED  CAKES. 

I   pound  butter,   1  pound   sugar,   1   cup   sour  cream,   1   teaspoon 
soda,  1  tablespoon  caraway  seeds,  flour  enough  to  roll  thin. 
Bake   in   a  quick   oven. 

SILVER   AND   GOLD   CAKE. 

Mrs.   Julia   Slatzer. 
SILVER. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  whites 
of  0  eggs,  i   teaspoon   soda,   1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

GOLD. 

I  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  |  cup  milk,  yolks  of  5 
eggs,  h  teaspoon   soda,   1   teaspoon  cream   tartar. 

These  cakes  may  be  baked  in  layers  and  put  together  with  a 
white  icing,  or  in  separate  cakes.  They  may  be  flavored  with  the 
same  or  with  dift'erent  flavorings.  ^, 

SILVER  CAKE. 

Mrs.     EUen    Alvis. 

i  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  sweet  milk,  i  teaspoon  lemon 
extract,  whites  of  8  eggs,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
sifted   in   the  flour. 


CAKES.  233 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD,  No.   1. 

Mrs.    R.    Walters. 

/ 
1    cup   butter,   i  Clip   brown   sugar,  2   cups   molasses,   3   eggs,    1 
cup   sour   milk,   1    tablespoon   ginger,    1   teaspoon    cinnamon,    1    tea- 
spoon soda,  4  cups  flour. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  1  tablespoon  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  1  hour. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD,  No.  2. 

Mrs.  Matilda  Whitmer. 
I  cup  sugar.  1  cu])  molasses,  -V  cup  butter,  2\  cups  flour,   1   cup 
boiling   water,   2   well  beaten   eggs,   1    teaspoon   each   ginger,   cinna- 
mon and  cloves,  2  teaspoons  soda  in  the  hot  water. 

SOFT  GIXGERBREAD,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.    J.    Ward. 
1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  shortening,  2  teaspoons  soda 
in  boiling  water,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  each  ginger  and  cloves,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,   flour  for  a  soft  dough. 

SOFT  JUMBLES. 

Mrs.     Newton     Irvin. 
1  cup  butter,   U   cups  sugar,   1   cup  milk  or  thin  cream,  grated 
rind. of  1  lemon,  3 "cups  flour,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Pour  in  rings  in  a  greased  pan,  and  bake  slowly  until  a  golden 
brown. 

SPANISH  BUN. 

Mrs.     Chas.    Hoy. 

1^-  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream,  2  eggs,  2  cups  flour, 
1  teaspoon  each  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  and  soda. 

If  sour  milk  is  used  instead  of  cream,  add  i  cup  butter.  Bake 
in  gem  pans  or  in  a  shallow  loaf. 

SPICE  CAKE,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.     George     White. 

IJ  cups  brown  sugar,  ij  cup  butter.  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  level 
teaspoon  soda,  a  little  sliced  lemon  peel,  \  cup  grated  chocolate, 
1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  2|  cups  flour,  3  eggs  beaten  separately, 
1  cup  each  raisins  and  currants,  2  grated  apples,  k  cup  nuts.  3 
teaspoons  ground   cinnamon,    1    teaspoon   cloves. 

SPICE  CAKh:,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Hannah    Price. 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour.  1  cup 
sour  milk,  J  teaspoon  nutmeg,  4  tablespoons  molasses,  yolks  4 
eggs,  whites  of  2,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves. 

Mix  as  usual,  adding  the  molasses  to  the  sour  milk  and  then 
tl-e  soda.  Bake  in  3  layers.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff  with 
two  tablespoons  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon  juice  and  use   tor  tilling. 


234  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

SPONGE  CAKE,  XO.  1. 

Mrs.    Hugh    Ewing.       , 

12  eggs,  their  weight  in  sugar,  =}  their  weight  in  flour,  rinu  of 
3  lemons,  juice  of  1,  1  wine  glass  wine. 

Beat  up  quickly  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

SPOXGE  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    George    Leyshon. 

1.}  cups  sugar,   1.]   cups   flour,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i-  cup  boiling  water. 

Mix  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour,  beat  the  yolks  sepa- 
rately together,  beat  in  the  sugar,  add  the  flour  gradually  and 
lightly,  and   lastly   the   hot   water. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

"Boston   Cooking   School." 

II  cups  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  10  eggs,  yolks  of  G,  1  cup 
flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Beat  the  whites  of  egg  until  stiff  and  dry ;  add  sugar  gradu- 
ally still  beating;  then  add  the  yolks  beaten  thick,  and  the  extract. 
Lastly  cut  and  fold  in  the  flour  with  the  cream  tartar.  Bake  5U 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  in  an  angel  cake  pan. 

SURPRISE  CAKE. 

Mrs.   H.    W.   Clark. 
RED. 

^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  red  sugar,  strong,  2  cups  flour,  ^  cup  water, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  4  eggs. 

YELLOW. 

^-  cup  butter,  I-  cup  sugar,  strong,  2  cups  flour,  J  cup  water, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  yolks  of  4  eggs. 

Bake  in  4  layers  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing. 

TREACLE  BUN. 

A   Glasgow   Recipe. 

h  pound  flour,  \  pound  sugar,  J  pound  butter,  -}  pound  raisins 
or  currants,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  \  teaspoon  soda,  1  teacup  molasses, 
H  teaspoons  cloves  and  cinnamon,  2  eggs. 

Put  butter,  sugar  and  molasses  into  a  pan ;  when  they  boil 
pour  over  the  well  beaten  eggs,  mix  the  other  ingredients  in  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  an  hour  or  more. 

VANILLA   STICKS. 

Mrs.     Wm.     Huston. 

1  pound  chopped  almonds,  1  pound  confectioner's  sugar,  whites 
of   4   eggs,   vanilla  flavoring. 

Beat  the  eggs  stiff,  and  then  beat  in  the  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Add  half  the  luixture  to  the  almonds  ;  roll  out  in  a  sheet  3  inches 
wide,  spread  the  icing  over  it,  cut  into  sticks,  and  bake  in  a  cool 
oven. 


CAKES.  235 

VELVET  SPONGE  CAKE.  ' 

Miss   Ellen   Crowe. 

2  cups  sugar,  2i  cups  flour,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon 
baking  powder,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  whites  of  3,  1  teaspoon  lemon 
extract. 

Beat  the  yolks  a  little,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  15  minutes ; 
add  the  3  well  beaten  wliites  and  the  boiling  water  just  before 
the  flour  and  flavoring.  Bake  in  3  layers,  putting  together  with 
icing  made  by  adding  to  each  white  left  6  dessertspoons  pulverized 
sugar  and  lemon  to  flavor. 

WALXUT  CAKE. 

Bake  a  white  or  delicate  cake  adding  ^  cup  walnut  meats  to 
the  batter.  Bake  in  a  sheet,  cover  with  a  boiled  icing,  mark  in 
squares,   and   put   i   walnut  on   each   square. 

WALXUT  WAFERS. 

Mix  ^  pound  brown  sugar,  \  pound  broken  walnut  meats,  2 
level  tablespoons  flour,  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder,  h  teaspoon  salt, 
and  2  eggs.  Drop  small  spoonfuls  on  buttered  pans,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

WATERAIELOX   CAKE. 

Mrs.    Norah    Shellhammer. 
WHITE    PART. 

5  cup  butter,  1]  cups  v.diite  sugar.  1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla. 

RED    P.\RT. 

h  cup  butter,  1  cup  red  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  seedless  raisins,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  yolks  of  4  eggs. 

Bake  in  a  round  or  oval  pan.  Have  a  tin  or  pasteboard  ring, 
round  or  oval,  a  little  larger  than  half  the  size  of  the  pan  ;  place 
it  in  the  centre,  fill  it  with  the  red  mixture,  and  pour  tlie  wliite 
mixture  around  it.  The  ring  must  be  buttered  so  it  will  lift  out. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

WELSH  CURRAXT  BREAD. 

Mrs.     David     Collins. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar,  1  quart  flour,  3  eggs,  1  pint  milk, 
1  box  currants,  1  box  raisins,  5  ccjnts  worth  lemon  peel,  i  nutmeg, 
Ih  cakes  yeast. 

Soak  the  yeast  in  1  cup  lukewarm  water  ;  mix  all  your  ingredi- 
ents except  the  milk  and  eggs  the  night  before.  Next  morning 
warm  the  milk,  and  beat  the  eggs  together  and  mix  everything 
to  a  stiff  batter.  Put  in  2  tins  and  let  rise  5  hours.  Bake  U 
hours  in  a  slow  oven. 


236  OLD    COUXTRV   RECIPES   AXD    !\EW. 

WELSH  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

:Mi-s.   H.   ]).   Lewis. 

Take  3  pints  flour,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  1  cup  good  Lard, 
2  eggs,  beat  all  together,  mix  in  3  teaspoons  baking  powder  and 
1  pound  washed  and  dried  currants.  Add  water  enough  to  make 
like  pie  dough  ;  roll  out  in  size  and  shape  to  fit  a  skillet,  dust  the 
skillet  with  flour,  and  bake  first  on  one  side,  toss  the  cake,  and 
bake  on  the  other.  Pile  on  top  of  each  other,  and  cut  from  the 
top  cake  in  slices  like  a  pie.  On  Welsh  griddles  these  cakes  arc 
made  very  large. 

WEST   INDLVN  GINGER  CAKES. 

1  quart  molasses,  1  large  cup  vellow  sugar,  1  pound  butter,  1 
pint  W.  L  preserved  ginger,  1  cup  syrup  of  same,  1  tablespoon 
race  ginger,  2  or  more  quarts  flour. 

Boil  the  molasses  and  sugar  together  20  minutes.  Stir  into 
the  syrup  the  butter  and  ginger,  the  race  ginger  being  first  pounded 
and  sifted.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Sift  2  or  3  quarts  of  flour 
into  a  bowl,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  it,  and  pour  in  the 
mixture.  When  cool  enough  to  handle,  mix  with  enough  flour  to 
make  a  pliable  dough ;  roll  out  thin,  cut  into  round  cakes  and 
bake   crisp   and   brown. 

W'HITE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    George    Long. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  sv^reet-  milk, 
whites  of  5  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor  with  vanilla 
or  bitter   almond. 

WHITE   FRUIT   CAKE. 

1  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  sifted  flour,  1^  pounds 
citron,  12  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cocoanut,  ^  pound 
almonds. 

Line  a  deep  pan  with  greased  paper,  and  bake  slowly  for  2 
hours.  When  cold,  ice  with  cocoanut  icing.  A  cup  of  shredded 
cocoanut  mav   be  used   instead   of  the  fresh   fruit. 


WT^ITE  LADY  FINGERS. 

Whites  of  1  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  ?,  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  i  cup 
pastry   flour,   i   teaspoon    any    desired    flavoring. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  froth  :  add  the  cream  tartar  and  beat  until 
stifif ;  sift  in  the  sugar  gradually,  continuing  the  beating.  Stir  in 
carefully  the  flour  4  times  sifted,  add  flavoring,  and  press  through 
a  pastry  bag  into  the  small  tins  used  for  ladv-fingers.  Sift  pow- 
dered  susar  lightlv  over  them   and   bake   slowlv   20   minutes. 


CAKES.  237 


WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Mrs.     Kate     Hoodlet. 


2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  whites  of  10  eggs.  2i- 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  flour  to  make  a 
rather  thin  batter. 

Beat  the  whites  of  egg  very  stiff,  adding  them  last.  Bake  in 
layers  and  put   together   with   boiled  icing. 


WIGGS. 

"Colonial  Recipes. 


4  pints  flour,  1  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar,  6  eggs,  1  pint 
milk,  ^  pint  yeast.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar,  add  1  teaspoon 
caraway  seeds,  melt  the  butter,  mix  it  with  the  milk,  then  stir  it 
into  the  flour,  and  add  the  eggs  and  yeast.  Stand  in  a  warm 
place  4  hours.     Roll  it.  cut  and  bake  quickly. 


YELLOW   CAKE. 

jMrs.   Chris.    Slatzcr. 


i  cup  butler,  1  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  •"}  eggs,  I  cup  sweet  milk, 
a  pinch  salt,  flour  for  a  soft  batter,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
sifted  in  each  cup  flour,   1   teaspoon   vanilla,   1   cup   raisins. 

Bake  in   layers   and   put  together  with   jelly. 


ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 


AGNES   FROSTING. 

Mrs.    Geo.    Ewing. 

Put  1  cup  i)owdcre<l  sugar  into  a  saucepan  with  4-  cup  water. 
Let  simmer  gently  until  it  strings.  Then  add  the  white  of  1  egg 
beaten  stiff,  }  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  chopped  English  walnuts, 
1  tablespoon  cocoanut,  and  .]  teaspoon  vanilla.  Good  for  any  white 
layer  cake. 

ALMOND   CUSTARD   FILLING. 

Miss     Ida    E.     Rising. 

Blanch  and  pulverize  1  pound  almonds,  mix  with  1  pint  thick 
sour  cream ;  beaj:  the  yolks  of  S  eggs  with  4  tablespoons  sugar, 
add  the  almonds  and  cream,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
stiff  with  2  tablespoons  sugar ;  vanilla  to  the  taste.  It  should  be 
as  thick  as  sponge  cake  batter.  Use  between  the  layers  of  a 
white    cake. 

APPLE  FILLING. 

Take  1  pint  grated  tart  apple,  the  juice  and  grated  yellow  rind 
of  1  lemon,  and  1  cup  sugar.     Cook  till  thick,  let  cool  and  spread 

between  the  layers.     Dust  the  top  of  the  cake  with  sugar. 

BOILED  ICING. 

Take  1  pound  sugar  and  }  pint  water  and  boil  until  it  strings 
from  a  spoon.  Pour  the  syrup  slowly  over  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  4  eggs,  and  beat  until  cold.  Flavor  with  lemon  juice, 
rose  water  or  vanilla  extract,   and  apply  with   a   wet   knife. 

Brown  sugar  may  be  used   for  a  brown  icing. 

CARAMEL  FILLING. 

TiTiss    H.    C.    ^'an    Meter. 

Boil  together  3  cups  brown  sugar,  'J  cup  butter  and  }  cup 
sweet  cream  until  a  spoonful  will  harden  in  coM  water;  add  1 
tablespoon  vanilla  and  beat  until  nearly  cold.  Then  spread  the 
layers  quickly. 

CARAMEL  ICING. 

Mrs.    Andrew    Shuttleworth. 

Take  H  cups  sugar,  boil  with  i  cup  sweet  milk  or  water,  5 
minutes  without  stirring,  or  until  it  begins  to  brown.  Flavor  with 
1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

•      238 


ICINGS   AND   FILLINGS.  239 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

Mrs.  II.   1>.  Ross. 

]\lix  I  cup  sugar,  a  lump  of  Inittcr  the  size  of  an  egg,  i  cup 
milk,  and  2  tablespoons  melted  cliocolate.  Cook  until  thick,  beat 
well  and  pour  on  while  hot. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

.Miss    A.    C.    Murphy. 

Whites  of  ■)  eggs  beaten  stiff,  adding  gradually   U   cups  sugar, 
3  tablespoons  gratecl  chocolate  and   1   teaspoon  vanilla. 
Or  the  chocolate  may  be  added  to  a  boiled  icing. 

FIG  FILLIXG. 

]\Iake  a  boiled  icing,  spread  layers  of  white  cake,  and  put  a 
layer  of  coarsely  cut  hgs  over  it.  then  cover  with  more  icing.  Put 
together  and  cover  the  cake  with  plain  icing.  Nuts,  dates  or 
raisins  mav  be  chopped  with  the  figs,  and  a  tablespoon  lemon 
juice  added. 

FRENCH   CREAM. 

^yhil)  1   cup  cream  stiff,  add  :}  cu])  powdered  sugar,  J  teaspoon 
vanilla,  and    1   stiff  white  of  egg.     Fill  cream   ])uffs. 
This    may   be   llavored   with   coffee   or   any    fruit. 

LE^.ION  COCOANUT  CREAM. 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2 
eggs,   1  cup  shredded  cocoanut. 

Beat  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  and  lemon ;  cook  10  minutes  in 
a  double  boiler  stirring  constantly;  add  the  cocoanut,  and  let  cool 
a   little   before  applying. 

LEMON   CUSTARD   FILLIXG. 

Beat  nine  eggs  together  until  stiff,  add  I  pound  sugar,  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  3  lemons,  a  small  cup  wine.  Stir  constantly 
over  the  fire  until  thick. 

LEMON   FILLING. 

Mrs.    Edward    Daugherty. 

Mix  1  tablespoon  cornstarch.  1  tablespoon  butter  and  1  cup 
sugar  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  into  ^  cup  boiling  water,  and 
when  thick  add  the  grated  yellow  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  pour 
over   1   well   beaten   egg,   beat   well   and,   when   cool,   spread. 

LEMON  ICING. 

Miss  .Mary    Winter. 

Boil  3  cups  sugar  with  11  cups  wster  till  the  syrup  strings: 
pour  over  the  stif?  whites  of  3  e<^o-s ;  a'ld  the  juice  of  1-  lemon 
and  1  tablespoon  orange  juice,  and  beat  till  cold  enough  to  spread. 


240  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

MAPLE  ICING. 

Break  in  pieces  and  melt   1  pound  cake  of  maple  sugar,  add  1 

tablespoon  water  and  boil  until   it   threads.  Beat  the  whites   of  2 

eggs   stiff   and   pour  over  them   the   boiling  sugar,   beating   until   it 
stiffens.      Spread    quickly. 

MARSHMALLOW  FROSTING. 

Mrs.  H.   C.   Tutlle. 

\  cup  white  sugar,  h  cup  brown  sugar,  }  pound  marshmallows, 
\  cup   water,   •}  teaspoon  vinegar,   1   white  of   egg. 

Boil  the  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  until  the  svrup  threads,  beat 
it  slowly  into  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg,  and  add  the  marsh- 
mallows  previously  melted  in  a  basin  over  hot  water.  Beat  until 
thick. 

MOCHA   CREAM  FILLING. 

Miss    Beall    Ewing. 

Cream  together  \  cup  liutter,  with  1  cup  confectioner's  sugar, 
add  2  teaspoons  powdered  cocoa,  2  tablespoons  very  strong  coffee, 
and  1  small  teaspoon  vanilla. 

ORANGE  GLAZfi. 

Put  together  in  a  saucepan  the  juice  and  chopped  rind  of  1 
orange  with  1  tablespoon  sugar  and  j  cnm  water.  Boil  -5  mimites, 
then  pour  in  a  bowl  to  steen  10  minutes  longer.  Put  2  tablespoons 
sugar  in  a  sauce  pan,  melt,  strain  the  orange  infusion  into  it, 
sharply   stir  until  warm,   then  use   as   wanted. 

ORANGE   ICING. 

Boil  1  pound  pulverized  sugar  with  'i  cup  water  until  it  strings. 
Add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange,  ^  teaspoon  vinegar, 
stir  throu9"h  and  beat  into  the  stifflv  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. 
Use  for  filling  and  icing  both  of  a  delicate  or  an  orange  cake. 

PINEAPPLE  FILLING. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Huston. 

Boil  2  cups  sucar  with  %  cup  cream  for  10  minutes:  take  off 
the  fire  and  beat  till  tiiick  and  smooth.  To  h  this  add  1  cup  grated 
pineapple  for  the  filling;  add  the  pineapple  juice  to  the  remaining 
i   for  the  icing. 

PISTACHIO  PASTE. 

Alelt  \  pound  marshmallows  over  steam,  add  2  tablespoons 
boiling  water,  cook  till  smooth  and  turn  in  a  syrup  made  of  i  cup 
milk  and  |  cup  sugar  boiled,  without  stirring,  6  minutes;  add  a 
few  drops  almond  extract,  J  cup  pistachio  nuts  blanched  and 
chopped,  and  a  few  drops  green  coloring;  beat  till  cool  enough  to 
spread.    Use  for  filling  and  frosting. 


ICINGS   AND   FILLINGS.  241 

PRUNE  ALMOND  FILLING. 

Make  a  boiled  icing  and  add  i  cup  clioi)i)C(l  prunes  and  J  cup 
blanclied    and   chopped   almonds. 

STR.WVBERRY  FILLING.  NO.  1. 

Whip  1  cup  tliick  cream  with  ',  cup  sugar,  white  of  1  egg.  \ 
teaspoon  vanilla,  and  h  cup  fresh  strawberries  mashed.  Serve 
fresh. 

STRAWBERRY   FILLING,   NO.   2. 

Beat  until  stiff,  1  cup  powdered  sugar  witli  tiie  whites  of  2 
eggs,  1  tablespoon  fresh  strawberry  juice,  and  a  very  little  lemon 
juice.  Gradually  beat  in  more  sugar  till  thick  enough  to  spread 
easily.  Put  aside  enough  for  the  top  of  the  cake,  and  into  the 
remainder  stir  very  carefully  as  many  halved  strawberries  as  it 
will  hold.  Put  a  thick  layer  of  this  Ijctween  the  layers  of  a  delicate 
cake,  and  spread  the  plain  icing  on  top.  'I'his  must  be  eaten 
while  fresh. 

Raspberry  and  otlier  fruit  fillings  are  made  the  same  way. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI    FILLING. 

Boil  1  cup  water  with  3  cups  sugar  till  thick  and  waxy ;  pour 
over  the  stiff  whites  of  2  eggs  and  beat  till  cool  ;  add  i  pound 
finely  chopped  almonds,  a  scant  i  cup  chopped  raisins,  and  a  little 
citron   sliced  thin.     Spread   at  once. 


ICE  CREAMS,  SHERBETS,  ETC. 


HOW  TO  FREEZE. 

Get  a  good  freezer  and  keep  it  clean.  Use  rich  cream  without 
gelatine  or  glaze,  when  it  can  be  gotten;  if  not,  rich  fruits  with 
milk  are  almost  as  satisfactory.  Scald  the  milk  or  cream,  and  dis- 
solve the  sugar  while  hot.  Thin  flavorings  may  be  added  before 
freezing;  crushed  fruits,  nuls,  etc.,  when  partly  frozen.  Put  in 
the  mixture,  fill  around  the  sides  with  crushed  ice  and  coarse  salt 
in  layers,  using  plenty  of  salt.  Turn  the  crank  slowly  and  steadily 
till  it  gets  stiff;  here  put  in  the  fruit  or  coarse  flavoring,  and  turn 
till  it  becomes  too  hard.  Take  out  the  dasher,  stir  the  cream 
thoroughly,  and,  if  whipped  cream  is  added,  stir  it  through  now. 
Cover  the  can,  cork  it  tight,  put  a  buttered  strip  of  muslin  around 
the  joint,  drain  off  the  water,  and  repack  with  ice  and  salt  over  the 
top  of  the  can ;  cover  the  freezer  with  a  heavy  cloth,  and  let  stand 
in  a  cool  place  from  1  to  2  hours  to  ripen,  according  to  the  ingre- 
dients of  the  cream.  Jf  wanted  in  moulds,  fill  them  when  ready 
to   repack,   and   bury   them   in   salt   and   ice   the  same   way. 

Ices  take  longer  to  freeze,  and  will  melt  more  quickly.  Always 
hav<i  them  as  stiff  as  possible  before  packing.  When  the  dasher 
comes  out,  the  beaten  white  of  egg  should  be  stirred  in,  if  any  is 
used.  Frozen  whipped  creams  require  3  or  4  hours  to  ripen,  but 
only  need  to  be  packed,  so  they  can  be  made  without  a  regular 
freezer ;  in  severe  Aj/inter  weather  it  is  only  necessary  to  set  the 
mould  outdoors  for  several  hours. 

ANGEL   PARFAIT. 

Miss    Beall    Ewing. 

Put  h  cup  sugar  and  i  cup  water  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire. 
Stir  slowly  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Then  let  it  cook  slowly 
until  it  balls.  Pour  3  tablespoons  of  the  boiling  hot  syrup  slowly 
into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
sherry,  maraschino,  or  any  delicate  flavor,  and  a  pint  of  cream 
whipped  very  stiff.     Mould  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  4  hours. 

BAKED  ICE  CREAM. 

Cover  a  brick  mould  of  ice  cream  with  a  thick  meringue,  and 
brown  all  sides  with  a  hot  shovel,  or  set  inside  a  hot  oven  for  a 
moment. 

BANANA   ICE   CREAM. 

Prepare  the  cream  and  sugar  as  in  vanilla  ice  cream ;  when 
cold,  add  5  large  bananas  mashed  fine  and  the  remaining  cream, 
and  freeze. 

242 


ICE   CREAMS,   SHERBETS,   ETC.  248 

BISCUIT  TORTONI. 

Boil  together  1  cup  sugar  and  1  cup  water  lo  minutes ;  stir 
into  this  the  well  beaten  3'olks  of  4  eggs,  cooking  5  minutes 
longer;  when  cold  add  2  tablespoons  each  of  slierry,  maraschino, 
and  chopped  almonds,  and  h  cup  powdered  macaroons.  Turn  this 
over  4  quarts  of  whipped  cream,  mixing  well  together.  Prick  in 
freezer  for  4  hours,  li  quarts  of  thick  cream  before  whipping 
will   make   the    amount. 

BISQUE  ICE  CREAM. 

Prepare  the  cream  and  sugar  as  for  vanilla  ice  cream;  half 
freeze  it,  stir  in  1  teaspoon  each  of  vanilla  and  caramel,  \  pound 
powdered  macaroons,  with  a  few  kisses  and  lady  lingers,  and  5 
tablespoons  sherry;  beat  till  smooth,  take  out  the  dasher  and  pack. 

Dried  and  powdered  brown  bread  is  also  used  in  place  of  the 
cakes  and  wine,  stirred  in  the  same  way  when  half  frozen. 

BRULfi. 

Mrs.     I'rnnk    Conncll. 

Bring  to  the  boil  1  quart  ricli  milk ;  add  4  cup  white  sugar  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Add  from  ")  to  8  slightly  beaten  eggs,  and  when 
the  custard  is  almost  done,  stir  in  1  cup  caramel  made  from  light 
brown  sugar.  Add  it  hot.  When  cool,  turn  into  a  mold,  pack  and 
•freeze  3  hours. 

CAF£  AU  PARK  AIT. 

Make  i  cup  strong  fresh  coffee,  strain  it  into  1  pint  vanilla 
ice  cream,  add  also  h  pint  whipped  cream,  beat  in  well,  let  stand 
in  the  freezer  15  minutes  more,  and  serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with 
a  little  whipped  cream  on  top. 

CAFfi  MOUSSE. 

Add  1  gill  black  coffee  tn  1  qu.arl  thick  cream,  and  |V  cup  pow- 
dered sugar;  whip  very  stiff,  turn  into  a  mould,  pack  in  salt  and 
ice,  and  freeze  3  hours.     This  is  good  whatever  becomes  of  it. 

Any  canned  or  fruit  juice  may  be  treated  in  this  way,  sweeten- 
ing to  taste,  remembering  that  some  sweetness  is  lost  in  freezing. 

CARAAdEL  ICE  CREAM. 

Make  a  caramel  of  \  cup  sugar,  pour  into  1  pint  hot  milk,  and 
when  dissolved  add  i  pound  sugar,  stirring  till  dissolved.  Wlun 
cold,  mix  with  1  quart  cream  and  1  talikspoon  vanilla,  and  freeze 
till  stiff;  take  out  the  dasher,  stir  in  1  ))int  whii)ped  cream,  repack, 
cover  and  let  ripen  2  hours. 

CHERRY   CUPS. 

Soak  1  pint  freshly  stoned  sweet  cherries  with  2  tablespoons 
sufear  and  any  delicate  flavoring  'desired.  Keej)  on  the  ice.  Take  1 
pint  vanilla  ice  cream.     Put  the  cherries  in  the  bottom  of  (J  sherbet 


244  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

glasses,  fill  up  with  the  ice  cream,  put  a  cherry  or  2  on  top   (or  a 
candied  cherry,  if  at  hand),  and  serve  immediately. 

Any  fresh  fruit  or  any  sijital)le  mixture  of  fruits  may  lie 
served  in  this  way,  soaking  first  in  sugar,  with  or  without  a  flavor- 
ing liquor. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 

Scald  1  pint  cream,  add  \  pound  sweet  chocolate,  1  tablespoon 
vanilla,  J  teaspoon  cinnamon,  and  1  cup  sugar ;  when  perfectly 
smooth,  cool,  add  1  pint  cream,  and  freeze. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 

Steep  }  pound  coarsely  ground  coffee  with  1  pint  cream,  letting 
it  just  miss  the  boil;  strain  through  a  thin  muslin,  squeezing  hard, 
add  f  cup  sugar,  stir  till  dissolved,  and  when  cold  add  the  remain- 
ing pint   of   cream,   and    freeze. 

FROZEN   CUSTARD. 

Mrs.     George    Ewing. 

Heat  1  quart  milk.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  C  or  8  eggs  with  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  a  large  cup  of  sugar.  Pour  over  this  the  warm 
milk,  and  put  over  the  fire  until  it  is  well  blended.  Then  cool. 
Before  freezing,  stir  in  the  beaten  whites,  a  tablespoon  rosewater, 
and  a  good  dash  of  rum,  or  flavor  with  vanilla.  A  pint  of  cream 
added  to  this   before  freezing  makes  it  delicious. 

FROZEN  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Miss    McMath. 

Make  a  rich  chocolate  custard,  adding  a  heaping  tablespoon  of 
mixed  spices,  and  a  large  cup  of  stale  fruit  cake  crumbs ;  after 
half  freezing  it,  add  1  cup  currants,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  and  a- 
wineglass  brandy.  When  frozen  mould  in  a  shape.  Serve  with  a 
regular  cold  pudding  sauce.  1  egg  beaten  up  with  a  cup  of  whipped 
cream  and  flavored  with  brandy  is  very  good. 

ICE  CREAM  CHARLOTTE. 

Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  plain  quart  pudding  mould 
with  lady  fingers,  fill  up  the  mould  with  vanilla  ice  cream,  turn 
out  on  a  cold  dish,  decorate  with  1  cup  of  whipped  cream  and 
serve. 

Or  fill  with  frozen  custard  and  serve  with  cold  brandy  sauce. 

ICE  CREAM   PRALINE. 

Put  3  oimces  blanched  almonds  in  a  saucepan  with  3  table- 
spoons sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  water.  Stir  until  well  browned. 
Pound  to  a  paste  ;  when  cold,  add  to  1  quart  mixture  for  vanilla 
ice  cream,  mix  up  well  and  freeze. 


ICE    CREAMS,   SHERBETS.    ETC.  245 

LEMON  ICE  CREAM. 

Scald  1  quart  cream,  and  let  cool.  Mix  the  grated  yellow  rind 
of  3  lemons  with  !)  ounces  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and 
1  orange,  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  1  hour.  Partly  freeze  the 
cream,  stir  in  the  fruit,   and  finish   freezing. 

MAPLE    MOUSSE. 

Beat   the   yolks   of   4    eggs   li'-di',    add    1    cup   maple   syrup  and 

cook    in    douhle   I)oiler   until    it   thickens    slightly.      Take    from  fire 

and  beat  until  cool.     Add   1  pint  cream  whipped  stifif,  pack  in  salt 
and  ice,  and  freeze  4  hours. 

NEAPOLITAN  VANILLA  CREAM. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  (i  eggs  light  with  ij  pound  sugar,  then  stir 
in  the  stiff  whites  and  add  all  to  1  quart  scalding  cream;  stir  till 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Strain,  add  '2  tal)lcspoons  vanilla  extract, 
cool  and  freeze.  Any  of  the  plain  creams  may  be  made  Neapolitan 
by  the  addition  of  6  eggs,  and   }   pound  sugar. 

NESSELRODE   PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Shell  1  pint  Italian  chestnuts,  b:  il  them  20  minutes,  skin  and 
press  through  a  colander;  chop  fine  1  peeled  and  cored  pineapple 
or  an  e(|ua!  amount  of  canned;  cl'op  1  pound  mixed  candied 
fruits:  i)ound  1  pint  lilanclied  al'.ro'ids :  boil  1  pint  sugar  with 
1  pint  water  1')  minutes,  stir  ii  tl'e  beaten  yolk  of  (3  eggs; 
when  it  boils  again  take  off  the  svrup  and  beat  till  cold.  Add  the 
fruit  and  nuts,  1  tablespoon  vanilla.  4  tablespoons  sherry,  and  1 
pint  cream.     Mi.x  well  and  freeze.     Let  ripen  4  or  5  hours. 

ORANGE   ICE  CREAM. 

Make  the  same  as  vanilla  ice  cream,  using  f  pound  sugar,  the 
rind  of  1  orange  and  the  juice  of  (i  in   place  of  vanilla  flavoring. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 

Mrs.    Henry    Spencer. 

Add  i  cup  sugar  to  1  quart  rich  milk,  freeze  slightly ;  then 
add  a  mixture  of  1  cup  orange  juice,  1  cup  sugar  and  1  tablespoo  i 
'cmon  juice,  and  finisli  freezing. 

PEACH  FRAPPfiE. 

Mrs.    Jolm     Whitmer. 

Line  a  mould  with  vanilla  ice  cream,  fill  the  centre  with  sliced 
ripe  peaches,  cover  with  ice  cream,  cover  the  mould  anfl  pack  in 
salt  and  ice  for  h  hour.     The  fruit  must  be  chilled  but  not  frozen. 

Any  fruit  or  berries  may  be  served  in  this  way. 


246  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

PEACH  ICE  CREAM. 

Scald  1  pint,  cream,  dissolve  in  it  |  pint  sugar ;  when  cold, 
add  1  pint  cream  and  partially  freeze.  Pare  and  mash  a  scant 
quart  of  peaches,  stir  them  in,  turn  until  stiff,  take  out  the  dasher, 
l^ack   and   finish    freezing. 

Apricot   ice   cream   is   made  in   the  same   way. 

PINEAPPLE   ICE   CREAM. 

Mrs.    Edward   Call. 

Slice  2  large  ripe  pineapples  thin,  scatter  2  pounds  powdered 
sugar  between  the  slices,  cover  and  let  the  fruit  stand  3  hours ; 
chop  it  up  in  the  syrup,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  ;  beat  grad- 
ually into  •>  pints  cream,  and  freeze  rapidly.  Keep  a  few  pieces 
of  pineapple  unsugared,  cut  into  square  bits,  and  stir  through  the 
cream  when  half  frozen,  witli  1  pint  whipped  cream.  Pack  and  let 
stand  several  hours. 

PISTACIITO   ICE  CREAAI. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  •]  the  cream  as  in  Vanilla  Ice  Cream:  when 
cold,  add  the  rest  of  the  cream,  ^  pound  shelled  pistachio  nuts 
blanched  and  pounded,  1  teaspoon  each  of  vanilla  and  almond 
extract,  and  enough  spinach  juice  or  harmless  vegetable  green  to 
'•-olor  it  a  light  green.     Ereeze. 

PRINCESS  PUDDING. 

Cover  1  tablespoon  gelatin  witli  cold  water  and  let  soak  ^ 
hour.  Add  enough  hot  water  to  dissolve  it  thoroughly  and  add 
it  to  1  quart  good  cregm,  1  cup  susrar,  1  e?g  beaten  light,  1  table- 
spoon vanilla,  and  3  tablespoons  sherry.  Put  into  the  freezer  and 
half  freeze.  Prepare  previously  a  heaping  cupful  of  fresh  peaches 
peeled  and  mashed.  Stir  into  the  half  frozen  mixture  with  2 
tablespoons  chopped  blanchcil  almonds,  pack  and  let  stand  2  hours. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Wash  and  mash  2  quarts  berries,  sprinkle  over  them  2  cups 
sugar,  let  stand  until  dissolved,  and  squeeze  through  a  piece  of 
cheesecloth.  Put  into  a  separate  bowl  the  mash  left  in  the  bag, 
pour  over  it  gradually  1  pint  milk  stirring  it  well  to  separate  the 
seeds,  and  squeeze  through  the  bag  again.  Add  this  juice  to  the 
other,  and  sweet  cream  and  sugar  according  to  taste.  Freeze  as 
usual. 

Raspberry  ice  cream  is  made  in  the  same  way,  adding  juice 
of   1   lemon. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  ICE  CREAM. 

Make  1  quart  Neapolitan  cream;  when  half  frozen,  stir  in  1 
pound  candied  fruit  chopped,  4  tablespoons  sherry  and  1  table- 
spoon brandy.     Pack  and  let  ripen  2   hours. 


ICE   CREAMS,   SHERBETS,   ETC.  247 

VANILLA   ICE  CREAM. 

Scald  1  pint  cream  in  a  double  boiler,  add  1  cup  sugar,  and 
stir  till  dissolved  ;  take  off,  add  2  tablespoons  vanilla  extract,  and 
when  cold  add  1  pint  rich  cream  and  freeze. 

VAX  ILEA  PARFAIT. 

Take  a  pint  of  vanilla  ice  cream.  Sweeten  and  flavor  \  pint 
thick  cream,  whip.  Add  \  to  the  ice  cream  stirring  in  thoroughly  ; 
put  in  sherbet  glasses,  cover  with  the  balance  of  the  whipped 
cream,  decorate  with  a  candied  cherr}-,  if  at  hand,  and  serve  im- 
mediately. Any  variety  of  ice  cream  may  be  converted  into  a 
parfait  in  this  manner. 


WATER  ICES. 


When  fruit  juices  are  fro.^en  with  water  and  sugar  they  are 
called  "water  ices":  if,  when  half  frozen,  a  white  of  egg  is  stirred 
in,  they  become  "sherbets".  If  served  only  half  frozen  without 
packing,  the  drink  is  "frappe".  Canned  or  fresh  juices  may  be 
used ;  the  fresh  fruit  may  be  boiled  or  only  mashed,  but  it  must 
be  strained,  and  sweetened  to  taste.  If  good  material  is  used,  and 
put  together  with  judgment,  the  ice  will  be  good  whether  frozen 
successfully   or   not. 

CAFE  FRAPPE. 

Pour  1  quart  boiling  water  over  1  cup  finely  ground  coffee  in 
a  French  coffee  pot ;  when  it  has  dripped  through,  pour  it  back 
again  and  in  this  manner,  let  it  drip  4  times;  pour  into  a  bowl 
and  dissolve  I  cup  sugar  in  it  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold, 
add  the  unbeaten  white  of  an  egg,  turn  into  a  freezer  and  freeze 
to  a  mush.     Serve  in  glasses. 

Tea  frappe  is  made  by  sweeten.ing  freshly  made  tea  to  taste, 
and    freezing   to   a   mush. 

CARDINAL  PUN'CH. 

Take  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  h  lemon  and 
the  juice  of  3  lemons,  and  |  orange,  adding  h  cup  raspberry  syrup, 
\^  pints  water,  2  teaspoons  kirsch  and  1  teaspoon  maraschino. 
Thoroughly  mix,  strain  and   freeze. 

CHEST.VUT  SHERBET. 

Boil  1  pound  French  chestnuts  30  minutes,  shell,  blanch  and 
press  them  through  a  sieve;  boil  1  quart  water  and  1  cup  sugar 
five  minutes,  add  4  talilespoons  sherry,  \  cup  lemon  juice  and  the 
chestnut  pulp;  half  freeze;  add  tl<'  stiff  whites  of  2  eggs  and 
fniish  freezing. 


248  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

FROZEN  FRUITS. 

The  pulp  of  fruits  may  be  frozen  in  the  same  manner  as  their 
juice,  cutting  or  mashing  as  inne  as  possible,  but  without  straining. 

FROZEN   ORANGEADE. 

Boil  3  cups  water  with  1  cup  sugar  10  minutes,  take  off  and 
add  the  juice  of  6  oranges  and  2  lemons.  When  cold  add  the 
white  of   1  egg  and   freeze  to  a  mush. 

GRAPE    SHERBET. 

Use  equal  amounts  of  grape  juice  and  water,  sweeten  to  taste, 
add  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  and  freeze. 


LEMON  GINGER  SHERBET. 

Pare  the  thin  yellow  rind  from  2  lemons  ;  pour  over  1  quart 
boiling  water,  cover  and  let  infuse  10  minutes.  Squeeze  the  lemon 
juice  and  steep  in  it  \  pound  candied  ginger  cut  very  fine;  put  all 
together,  add  1  pint  sugar,  strain  and   freeze. 


LEMON   ICE. 

Peel  the  thin  yellow  rind  from  o  lemons  and  1  orange,  add  1 
quart  water,  and  2}  cups  sugar;  boil  .">  minutes,  and  cool.  Squeeze 
the  juice  from  the  fruit  and  from  a  couple  more  lemons,  add  to 
the   syrup,   strain    and   freeze. 

Orange  Ice  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  taking  12  oranges 
and  1  pint  sugar  to  the  quart  of  water,  and  boiling  3  rinds.  1  or 
2  lemons  added  is  an  improvement. 


LEAION  SHERBET. 

•  Mrs.    Bess   Jones. 

Grate  the  yellow  rind  from  3  lemons,  roll,  and  squeeze  out  all 
the  juice.  Pour  1  quart  boiling  water  over  them  and  let  stand 
a  few  minutes.  Dissolve  1  cup  sugar  in  a  little  water  and  boil  to 
a  syrup,  add  1  teaspoon  gelatin  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water ; 
add  to  the  lemon  syrup  and  freeze.  When  almost  frozen,  stir  in 
tiie   stiff  white  of   1   egg,   pack,  and   finish   freezing. 

MACEDOINE  ICE. 

Mix  1  pint  each  of  orange  juice  and  pineapple  juice,  and  J 
pint  lemon  juice;  make  quite  sweet,  add  2h  pints  water,  and  freeze. 

Or  J  pint  each  cherry,  strawberry  and  currant  juice;  sweeten, 
add   U   pints   water  and   freeze. 

Or  ^  pint  each  of  currant  and  raspberry  juice;  sweeten,  add 
1   quart   water  and    freeze. 


ICE   CRliAMS,   SHERBETS,   ETC.  249 

OXE,  TWO,  THREE  LExMON   ICE. 

Mrs.     George    Ewing. 

1  cup  lemon  juice,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  water.  Mix  well  and 
freeze. 

ORAXGE  WATER   ICE. 

Mrs.     G.    Donnelly. 

Mix  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  G  oranges,  2  teaspoons  extract 
orange,  1  gill  rich  sweet  cream,  1  pound  powdered  sugar,  and  1 
quart   water.      Strain   and    freeze. 

PIXEAPPLE  ICE. 

Mrs.    Peter    McQuadc. 

Soak  2  tablespoons  gelatin  i  hour  in  cold  water ;  when  ready 
to  use  pour  over  it  A  pint  hot  water.  Mix  this  with  1  can 
shredded  pineapple,  tlic  juice  of  3  lemons,  8  cups  sugar.  This 
should  measure  3  pints;  if  not.  till  up  with  cold  water.  Put  into 
the  freezer  and  when  parti}'  frozen,  add  the  stifBy  beaten  white  of 
1  egg. 

PLXEAPPLE  WATER  ICE. 

Pare,  core  and  grate  2  large  pineapples  and  press  through  a 
sieve:  add  3  cups  sugar,  tlic  iuicc  of  2  lemons,  and  1  quart  water: 
when  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  freeze. 

RASPBERRY  SHERBET. 

Mash  enough  berries  to  make  1  pint  juice:  add  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  1  pint  sugar,  I  pint  boiling  water ;  when  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, strain  and  freeze. 


CANDIES. 


The  common  terms  that  are  used  to  describe  the  stages  of  heat 
reached  by  the  boiling  sugar  in  candv  making  are  the  "thread"  or 
"string,"  from  215°  to  217°  F.  ;  the"  "soft  ball,"  238° ;  the  "hard 
ball,"  248°  ;  and  the  "crack,"  about  50°  higher.  The  test  is  made 
by  dropping  a  teaspoonful  of  the  syrup  in  cold  water.  The 
"thread"  strings  from  the  end  of  the  spoon ;  the  "soft  ball"  will 
just  keep  its  shape;  the  "hard  ball"  hardens,  and  the  "crack"  is 
brittle.  At  350°  F.,  the  syrup  becomes  quite  brown  and  smokes. 
This  is  the  "caramel"  stage. 

BARLEY  SUGAR. 

Soak  1  pint  barley  over  niyht ;  in  the  morning  simmer  in  more 
water  until  as  clear  as  thin  jelly;  strain,  add  1  pound  white  sugar 
and  juice  of  1  lemon;  boil  again  till  it  reach  the  hard  ball.  Take 
from  the  stove,  whip  in  the  stiff  white  of  1  egg,  and  pour  in 
buttered  pans.     When  cold  enough  mark  in  squares. 

BONBONS. 

Bonbons  are  made  of  fondant,  cooked  or  uncooked.  Any 
flavoring  or  coloring  desired  may  be  added  to  the  boiled  fondant 
just  before  taking  from  the  fire;  and  cocoanut,  chopped  nuts  or 
chopped  fruits  may  be  worked  in  while  yet  soft.  When  well 
worked  make  up  into  small  balls  of  any  size  or  shape.  Whole  nuts 
or  candied  fruits  are  rolled  in  fondant,  and  all  bonbons  are  put 
aside  to  ripen.  They  are  then  dipped  in  colored  or  white  melted 
fondant,  or  in  melted  chocolate. 

To  color  the  outside  of  bonbons,  melt  boiled  fondant  over 
boiling  water,  color  and  flavor  as  desired,  drop  the  bonbons  in 
one  at  a  time,  turn  with  a  two  tined  fork  until  covered,  remove 
with  the  fork,  and  drop  on  buttered  paper  to  harden.  For  cover- 
ing with  chocolate,  melt  Baker's  chocolate  over  boiling  water,  and 
dip  in  the  same  manner.  The  chocolate  mav  be  sweetened  if 
preferred,  or  sweetened   chocolate   may   be  used. 

BURNT  ALMONDS. 

"Yonkers    H.     H.     Cookbook." 

Put  2  cups  brown  sugar  into  a  saucepan  with  very  little  water. 
Stir  until  dissolved.  Let  it  boil  a  minute  and  then  throw  in  1  cup 
blanched  almonds  and  stir  until  the  sugar  forms  caramel.  When 
the  nuts  are  well  coated,  turn  them  out  and  separate  them. 

250 


CANDIES.  251 

BUTTERSCOTCH,    No.    1. 

Mrs.    John    E.    Jones. 

Mix  together  3  pounds  sugar,  \  cup  molasses,  1  heaping  cup 
Iiutter,  and  h  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Boil  until  it  cracks  dropped 
m  cold  water.     Flavor  and  pour  into  buttered  pans. 

BUTTERSCOTCH,  No.  2. 

Put  3  cups  granulated  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  1  cup  water, 
let  it  boil  about  lU  minutes  without  stirring.  When  the  syrup 
changes  from  white  to  straw  color,  stir  in  2  tablespoons  butter, 
and  pour  into  buttered  pans,  marking  off  in  squares  when  cool 
enough. 

CANDIED   GINGER. 

Boil  race  ginger  in  water  until  tender,  changing  the  water 
several  times.  The  last  time  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar,  and 
boil  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon.  Roll  the  ginger  in  white 
sugar,  pack  in  small  jars,  pour  the  remaining  syrup  over  it  and 
tie   up. 

CANDIED  VIOLETS. 

"Dainty   Dishes." 

Dissolve  1  cup  su.gar  in  a  little  water  and  boil  until  it  threads. 
Set  aside  to  cool  slightly.  Take  fresh  double  violets,  dip  them  in 
the  syrup,  and  then  sprinkle  with  confectioner's  sugar.  Lay  away 
in  dry  su.gar.  Rose  petals  and  tender  crisp  mint  leaves  are  done 
the  same  way.     These  make  pretty  garnishes  for  fancy  desserts. 

CHIPS. 

Boil  the  syrup  to  the  crack,  color  and  flavor  as  desired,  pour 
on  to  buttered  platters,  pull  or  work  when  cold  enough,  lastly  roll 
out  very  thin  with   a  buttered   roller.     Break  into   shapeless  pieces. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS,   No.   L 

Miss    Pearl     Essex. 

1  cup  molasses,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  \  cake  Baker's  choco- 
late. 

Boil  twenty  minutes,  take  off  stove,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  and 
turn  into  buttered  tins.     When  cold  enough,  cut  into  squares. 

CHOCOLATE   CARAMELS,    No.  2. 

Put  li  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  add  10  ounces 
Baker's  chocolate,  1  pint  thick  cream,  \  pint  raspberry  syrup,  and  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  mix  well  and  boil,  constantly  stirring  until  the 
syrup  reaches  the  hard  ball.  Pour  into  buttered  pans,  and  when 
cool  enough  cut  into  squares. 


252  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CHOCOLATE   FUDGE. 

Mrs.    John    E.    Jones. 

Mix  together  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  cups  confectioner's 
sugar,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  and  butter  size  of  a  walnut  and  boil 
together  five  minutes.  Add  3  cup  cocoa  or  grated  chocolate,  and 
boil  3  minutes  longer.  Take  from  the  fire,  beat  until  it  thickens, 
pour  into  buttered  nans,  and  when  nearly  cold   mark  into   squares. 

If  nuts  are  wanted,  stir  them  in  after  taking  from  the  fire. 

CHOCOLATE   WAFERS. 

Melt  sweetened  or  unsweetened  chocolate.  Drop  on  sheets  of 
wa.xed  paper. 

COCOANUT   BALLS. 

Grate  the  white  of  .}  a  cocoanut;  mix  with  enough  of  the  milk 
to  stick  together ;  make  into  small  balls ;  cover  with  cream  fondant 
or  boiled  fondant,  or  drop  in  boiling  fondant.     Let  ripen. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CANDY. 

Boil  \  pound  granulated  sugar  with  the  milk  of  1  cocoanut 
and  2  tablespoons  water.  Boil  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  when  tried 
in  water.  Add  ^  pound  grated  cocoanut.  Stir  until  it  looks  white, 
then  pour  into  buttered  pans  and  cu.t  in  squares  when  stiff  enough. 

COCOANUT    DROPS. 

INIrs.     Thiimas    Lynch. 

Beat  half  stiff  the  whites  of  5  eggs,  add  slowly  1  pound  white 
sugar  beating  continuously,  1  large  cocoanut  grated,  and  \  teaspoon 
rose  extract.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  paper,  and  set  in  a 
cool  oven  till  crusted. 


COCOANUT  FUDGES. 

Miss    Beall   Ewing. 

Melt  1  cake  sweet  chocolate,  add  2  cups  milk,  2  cups  sugar, 
and  1  cup  cocoanut.  Bcil  until  it  creams  in  cold  water.  Take  off, 
add  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  stir  as  usual  until  ready  to  pour  out. 

COCOANUT  TAFFY. 

Boil  2  cups  N.  O.  molasses  with  3  tablespoons  each  butter  and 
sugar  until  soft  ball  is  reached.  Stir  in  1  cup  freshly,  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  and  boil  1  minute.  Pour  in  a  buttered  pan.  When  cold 
enough,  mark  in  strips.  Have  prepared  some  neat  round  sticks 
about  4  inches  long,  and  roll  the  strips  of  taffy  on  them.  Should 
keep  their  form  but  be  too  sticky  to  handle  without  the  sticks. 


CANDIES.  253 

COFFEE  CARAMELS. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  over  a  brisk  fire,  1}  pounds  granulated  sugar, 
5  pint  sweet  cream,  h  teaspoc  n  vanilla  and  \  pint  strong  fresh 
coffee.     Stir  well  and   continue   as   with  chocolate  caramels,  No.   2. 

Tea  caramels  are  made  the  same  way. 

CRACKER  JACK. 

Mrs.   Oliver   Devol. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  N.  O.  molasses,  lump  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  alum  size  of  a  pea,  pinch  of  soda.  Boil  to 
tlie  hard  ball.     Pour  over  1  gallon  of  popped  corn. 

CREAAI  CARAMELS. 

"Boston    Cooking   Scliool." 

Put  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  glucose,  \  pound  butter  and  1 
cup  cream  over  the  fire.  Stir  and  cook  until  it  boils  throughout. 
Then  stir  in  gradually  so  as  not  to  stop  the  boiling,  a  second  cup 
of  cream.  Stir  every  3  or  4  minutes  until  the  hard  ball  is  reached. 
Add  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  and  turn  into  a  large  shallow  well  but- 
tered pan.  When  nearly  cold,  cut  in  cubes.  Roll  these  at  once 
in  waxed  paper.     It  may  need  to  boil  an  hour. 

CREAM  CHERRIES. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Boil  1  cup  sugar  and  \  cup  water  together  until  the  syrup 
threads.  Take  off  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  hardens.  Put  back  on 
the  stove  in  a  second  pan  of  hot  water,  and  melt.  If  too  thick 
add  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water.  Dip  into  the  syrup  whole 
bunches  of  cherries  or  single  pieces  of  any  small  fruit,  and  lay  on 
the  dishes  or  paper  cases  they  are  to  be  served  on. 

CREAMED   WALNUTS. 

Put  in  a  bowl  the  white  of  1  egg,  \  tablespoon  cold  water 
and  I  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  well.  Add  confectioner's  sugar 
gradually  until  stiff  enough  to  knead,  somewhat  less  than  1  pound. 
•Shape"  in  balls  and  flatten  between  the  two  halves  of  English  wal- 
nuts pinched  together.  Filberts  may  be  treated  this  way,  or  fond- 
ant  may   be   used   in   place    of   the   uncooked    cream. 

CREAM   TAFFY. 

"Yonkers   H.    H.    Cookbook." 

Take  1  cup  sugar,  \  cup  molasses,  1  cup  cream  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an'egg.  Boil  over  a  brisk  fire,  stirring  until 
it  cracks.  Pour  into  a  buttered  tin  and  mark  in  squares  when 
cold  enough.     May  be  poured  over  a  layer  of  nuts  in  the  pan. 


254  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CREOLE  KISSES. 

"Yonkers    II.    H.    Cookbook." 

Beat  together  for  1-5  minutes  1  pound  confectioner's  sugar  and 
tlie  whites  of  tJ  eggs.  Add  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar  and  beat  until 
it  stands  alone.  Add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  1  cup  chopped  nuts, 
and  bake  in  a  thin  layer.  Take  from  the  oven,  cut  into  narrow 
strips   and   roll   them   still   hot   over  small   sticks. 

CURRAXT  AND  RASPBERRY  PASTE  DROPS. 

i  pound  each  of  currants  and  raspberries  boiled  and  rubbed 
through  a  sieve;  add  1  pound  sifted  sugar,  and  stir  over  a  brisk 
fire  until  the  paste  is  so  reduced  as  to  show  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle  when  the  spoon  is  drawn  across  it.  Drop  on  a  tin  sheet 
about  the  size  of  silver  quarters,  and  place  on  the  oven  screen 
with  a  low  fire  for  1  hour.  Remove  from  the  tin  and  place  be- 
tween sheets  of  paraflin  paper  in  a  closed  box  in  a  dry  place.  Any 
other   fruit  may  be  treated  the  same  way. 

DIVINITY  EUDGE. 

Mrs.    Ilaskins. 

Boil  together  until  it  threads  2  cups  sugar,  h  cup  water,  and 
\  cup  Karo  syrup.  Pour  slowly  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
"2  eggs.  Add  1  cup  finely  minced  nutmeats,  and  vanilla  to  taste. 
Beat  hard  until  cooling,  and  pour  into  buttered  tins,  marking  the 
squares. 

FONDANT. 

"Fondant"  is  the  "foundation"  of  all  French  candies.  To 
make  "white  fondant",  put  2}  pounds  sugar  and  \  teaspoon  cream 
tartar  in  a  smooth  granite  saucepan  with  1^  cups  hot  water.  Boil 
without  stirring  till  the  soft  ball  is  reached.  As  the  sugar  ad- 
heres to  the  sides  of  the  kettle,  wash  it  off  with  the  hand  dipped 
in  cold  water.  Butter  a  large  platter  or  a  marble-topped  table,  and 
pour  the  mixture  slowly  on  it.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes  only  to 
cool.  Then  scrape  up  together  and  work  with  a  wooden  spatula 
or  spoon  until  white  and  creamy.  If  it  lumps,  work  with  the  hands 
until  perfectly  smooth  again.  Put  into  a  bowl,  cover  with  oiled 
paper,  and  let  stand  24  hours  to  ripen.  Always  make  it  on  a 
clear  day. 

"Coffee  fondant"  is  made  by  using  strong  coffee  in  place  of 
water. 

"Maple    fondant"   is   made  by   using  half   maple   sugar. 

For  an  uncooked  white  fondant,  beat  the  white  of  1  egg  with 
i  tablespoon  cold  water  and  |  teaspoon  vanilla.  Add  gradually  as 
much  fine  confectioner's  sugar  as  it  will  take  up  to  the  amount  of 
1  pound.     This  is  good  if  eaten   fresh. 

FRUIT  BONBONS. 

Mrs.    John    E.    Brown. 

j\lix  an  equal  quantity  of  chopped  walnuts,  dates  and  figs,  and 
make  into  bonbons  with   jelly.     Dip  in   melted   chocolate. 


CANDIES.  255 

FUDGK.  NO.   1. 

Mrs.    Lizzie   Ward. 

■1  cups  brown  .suj^ar,  1  cup  cream  or  milk,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  1  pound  English  walnuts. 

Boil  sugar  and  cream  until  the  syrup  threads ;  then  add  the 
nuts  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Take  off  the  stove  and  stir  until 
white.     Pour  into  greased  platter  and  mark  into  squares. 

FUDGE.  NO.  2. 

Miss  Margaret  Corbett. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  1  cup  each  of  white  and  brown  sugar,  ^ 
cup  milk,  I  cup  molasses  and  as  much  melted  butter;  boil  about 
3  minutes  stirring  constantly.  Add  2  squares  grated  chocolate 
and  cook  five  minutes  longer,  still  stirring.  Take  the  kettle  off, 
add  1|  teaspoons  vanilla,  and  beat  until  creamy.  Pour  into  a  but- 
tered pan  and  when  cool  mark  into  squares.  Any  kind  of  nuts 
may  be  added  when  taking  from  the  fire,  chopped  figs,  candied 
fruits,  etc. 

GINGER  CANDY. 

Dissolve  1  pound  white  sugar  in  i  pint  water,  boil  until  a 
thick  syrup  ;  add  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger  to  a  little  of  the  syrup 
and  when  smooth,  stir  it  into  the  whole.  Boil  until  it  threads,  then 
add  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  and- boil  again  stirring  all  the  time 
until  the  hard  ball  stage  is  reached.  Drop  with  a  spoon  in  small 
cakes  on  a  buttered  pan. 

GLACfi  NUTS. 

Put  2  cups  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  J  teaspoon  cream  tartar 
and  1  cup  lioiling  water.  Boil  without  stirring  until  the  syrup  be- 
gins to  discolor.  Put  the  pan  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  to  in- 
stantly stop  boiling  and  then  into  a  saucepan  of  .hot  water  for  the 
dipping.  Take  nuts  separately  on  a  long  pin.  dip  in  the  syrup 
until  covered,  remove  and  place  on  oiled  paper  to  cool.  Glace 
fruits,  such  as  strawberries,  sections  of  oranges,  and  cherries,  dip 
in  the  same  way.  Grapes  should  be  dipped  by  their  short  stems. 
The   fruit   shoidd   be   served    fresh. 

GRILLED  ALMONDS. 

"Yonkers   H.    H.    Cookbook." 

Boil  1  cuj)  sugar  and  \  cup  water  until  the  syrup  threads. 
Drop  in  1  cup  blanched  almonds,  letting  them  cook  five  minutes 
stirring  occasionally  very  carefully.  When  slightly  brown  remove 
and  stir  until  the  syrup  turns  to  sugar,  some  of  which  will  cling 
to  the  nuts. 

HONEY  CANDY. 

Boil  1  cup  honey  and  1  teaspoon  butter  until  it  reaches  the 
crack  :   j  our  in   a  well   greased   pan  ;  pull   when   cooling. 


256  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW.  ^ 

HONF.Y   CARAMELS. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  J  pint  each  honey  and  sweet  cream,  ^  gill 
Jamaica  rum,  J  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  pounds  granulated  sugar,  and 
the  juice  of  -\  lemon.  Boil,  constantly  stirring  until  it  reaches  the 
hard  ball.  Add  2  tablespoons  butter,  and  boil  3  minutes  longer. 
Proceed  as  with  chocolate  caramels.  No.  '2. 

ICE  CREAM   CANDY. 

Put  2  pounds  sugar  on  to  boil  with  1  cup  water  and  \  cup 
vinegar.  Cook  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Take  from  the  lire,  add 
vanilla  to  taste  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  pour  on  buttered 
plates  to  cool.  As  soon  as  it  can  be  handled,  pull  until  white, 
and  break  into  convenient  lengths   when   cold   enough. 

MAPLE   CARAMELS. 

Make  like  vanilla  caramels,  using  maple  syrup  in  place  of 
sugar  and  vanilla. 

MAPLE   FUDGE. 

Miss    Beall    Ewing. 

Cook  2  pounds  soft  maple  sugar  with  1  pint  cream  from  30 
to  15  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  until  the  "crack"  is  reached. 
Remove,  beat  hard  about  5  minutes,  pour  into  buttered  pans  and 
mark  in  squares. 

MAPLE   NUT   CANDY. 

Miss    Beall    Ewing. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar,  .]  pint  cream.  It  cups  pecan  nuts 
chopped,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  the  cream  and  sugar  together 
and  cook  until  the  syrup  balls.  Add  the  flavoring  and  nuts,  take 
off,  beat  well  and  pour  into  buttered  tins. 

MAPLE   PRALINES. 

Boil  1|  cups  confectioner's  sugar,  1  cup  maple  syrup,  and  J 
cup  cream  until  the  soft  ball  is  reached.  Tlien  take  from  the  fire, 
and  beat  vmtil  it  shows  signs  of  sugaring,  stir  in  2  cups  nutmeats 
quickly,  and  drop  from  the  spoon  on  buttered  paper. 

MAPLE  PUFFS. 

2  cups  maple  or  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  water,  J  teaspoon  vanilla, 
^  cup  chopped  walnuts,  white  of  1  egg.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water 
to  the  soft  ball ;  pour  slowly  into  the  beaten  egg,  add  vanilla,  and 
beat  till  stiff.  Stir  in  the  walnut  meats,  and  drop  by  teaspoons  on 
buttered   paper. 

MARSHM  ALLOWS. 

"Dainty    Dishes." 

Dissolve  \  pound  gum  arabic  in  1  nuart  water ;  add  1  pound 
best  granulated  sugar,  and  stir  con=tantb'  over  a  slow  fire  until 
about  as   thick  as   molasses.     Add  the   stiffly   beaten   whites   of   8 


CANDIES.  207 

eggs,  flavor  witli  vanilla,  and  stir  until  it  does  not  stick  to  the 
fingers.  Pour  into  a  pan  dusted  with  cornstarch,  and  as  it  cools 
mark  into  squares.    When  taken  out,  dust  all  sides  with  cornstarch. 

MOLASSES  CAXDY,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.     Kate     Hoodlet. 

Put  1  pound  granulated  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  just  enough 
water  to  dissolve  it,  and  boil  until  it  reaches  the  hard  ball ;  add 
1  quart  N.  O.  molasses,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  and  1  tablespoon 
butter;  boil  again  till  the  hard  ball  is  reached.  Take  it  off,  stir 
in  a  small  J  teaspoon  soda,  and  pour  into  buttered  tins ;  as  soon 
as  it  begins  to  cool,  pull  until  white.  Moisten  the  hands  with  ice 
water  or  butter.  Lay  out  in  long  sticks,  braids  or  twists,  and  as 
it  hardens,  cut  into  short  lengths. 

When  taken  from  the  stove   flavor  with   the  juice  of   1   lemon. 

MOLASSES   CANDY,   NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Edith    W'incfordiicr. 

Boil  1  cup  molasses  with  2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
a  little  butter  and  vanilla  for  I't  miimtes.  Pour  out  onto  buttered 
plates.  When  cool  enough,  pull  till  light,  and  break  into  small 
pieces. 

NELLIE'S   CARAMELS. 

Mrs.    Hugh   Ewing. 

1  pound  brown  sugar.  ]  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cake  sweetened 
chocolate,  butter  the  size  of  an  ecg.  Hoil  until  thick  as  taffy, 
pour  onto  buttered  plates,  and  mark  into  sc|uares  when  cool  enough. 

NOUGAT. 

Grease  a  shallow  square  pan  w-ith  butter.  Fill  with  hickory 
nut  kernels,  Brazil  nuts  sliced,  almonds,  sliced  cocoanut,  dates  and 
orange  peel.  Melt  2  pounds  su?ar  with  1  cup  water,  boil  without 
stirring  until  the  crack,  add  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  pour 
over  the  nuts  in  the  pan.  When  cool  mark  in  narrow  strips  with 
a  knife. 

NUT   CARAMELS. 

Make  like  vanilla  caramels,  adding  2  cups  nutmeats  before 
removing  from  the  fire.     The  vanilla  may  be  omitted  or  less  used. 

PEANUT   NOUGAT. 

Shell  1  quart  peanuts,  remove  the  skins  and  chop  fine.  Sprinkle 
with  \  teaspoon  salt.  Put  1  pound  sugar  in  a  granite  saucepan, 
put  over  fire,  .and  stir  constantly  until  incited  to  a  syrup.  .Add 
the  nuts  at  once,  pour  into  a  warm  buttered  tin  and  mark  in. 
small  squares. 

17 


258  OLD    COUXTRV   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

PEPPERMINTS. 

Boil  2  cups  white  sugar  and  h  cup  water  for  5  minutes  ;  flavor 
with  peppermint;  stir  until  thick  and  creamy  and  drop  on  parafifine 
paper. 

Wintergreen  oil  may  be  used  to  flavor,  in  which  case  use  a 
few   drops   of  pink  coloring. 

POPCORN   BALLS. 

Mrs.    Campbell. 

Boil  3  pint  molasses  for  12  minutes ;  put  4  quarts  popped  corn 
into  a  pan,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  it.  Mix  well.  Roll  into  balls 
to  suit. 

POPCORN  BARS. 

Crush  freshly  popped  corn  with  a  rolling  pin  ;  make  a  syrup  as 
for  popcorn  balls ;  cook  till  it  reaches  the  crack,  add  the  corn,  mix 
well  and  press  into  a  buttered  pan  to  the  depth  of  h  inch,  pounding 
it  smooth  with  the  potato  masher.  Mark  into  bars  with  a  sliarp 
knife.  Break  apart  when  cold  and  wrap  in  waxed  paper.  A  cup 
of   nutmeats   is   a   good   addition. 

PRALINES. 

Mrs.    A.    M.   Thackara. 

For  each  pound  of  shelled  nuts,  English  walnuts,  filberts  or 
pecans,  put  1  cup  of  brown  sugar  in  a  skillet  with  just  water 
enough  to  dissolve  it.  Cook  till  it  balls  soft,  then  remove  and  stir 
until  it  begins  to  cream,  when  add  the  nuts  and  drop  from  the  tip 
of   the   spoon   in   small   piles   on  buttered   paper. 

PUFFED  RICE  CANDY. 

Mrs.    Arthur    \"an    Meter. 

Boil  together  1  cup  sugar,  J  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  When  it  strings,  add  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  stir  in  3  cups  of  puffed 
rice.     Pour  out  on  buttered  platters,  and  break  in  pieces  when  cold. 

SCOTCH    TOFFEE.. 

Mrs.    H.    C.    Begland. 

Put  3  cups  confectioner's  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  2  table- 
spoons butter,  \  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  \  cup  cold  water.  Let 
boil  without  stirring  until  the  crack  is  reached  and  the  syrup  is 
amber  colored.     Pour  into  a  buttered  pan,  and  mark  off  when  firm. 

SEA    FOAM. 

Miss   Udell    Evving. 

Mix  2  cups  brown  sugar  with  \  cup  water,  cook  without  stir- 
ring until  it  will  form  a  hard  ball  in  cold  water.  Then  remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  into  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  adding  A 
t'-p spoon  vanilla.  When  nearly  stiff  add  1  cup  chopped  nuts,  and 
drop  in  balls  on  a  buttered  platter. 


CANDIES.  259 

SEA   FOAM   FUDGE. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Brown. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  i  cup  water,  i  cup  grated  chocolate, 
white  of  1  egg. 

Put  sugar,  chocolate  and  water  over  the  hre  m  a  saucepan, 
and  boil  without  stirring  until  it  spins  a  thread  from  the  point  of 
a  spoon.  Pour  this  mixture  over  the  well  beaten  while  of  an  egg. 
and  stir  until  it  begins  to  stiffen.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  waxed 
paper  in  little  bonbons. 

SOUR  DROP^. 

Boil  3  pounds  granulated  sugar  with  8  cups  water,  and  1  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar  till  the  hard  ball  is  reached.  Take  from  the 
iire,  stir  in  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon,  and  sprinkle  over, 
carefully  mixing.  1  tablespoon  powdered  tartaric  acid.  Pour  on 
an  oiled  tin  and  keep  warm.  Take  a  little  at  a  time,  make  into 
small  rolls,  cut  into  bits,  and  roll  each  in  the  hands  till  round. 
Sprinkle  with   powdered  sugar. 

STUFFED   DATES. 

Miss    Beall    Ewing. 

Split  the  side  of  each  date  and  remove  the  seed.  Fill  with 
plain  fondant,  nuts  rolled  in  fondanti.  or  plain  English  walnuts. 
Fold  the  edges  together  and  roll  in  pulverized  sugar,  i'canuts 
make  a   stuffing  liked  by  many. 

SUGARED  PEANUTS. 

Treat  the  nuts  as  for  salted  almonds,  using  powdered  sugar 
instead  of  salt. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  CANDY. 

"Boston   Cooking   School." 

T^Ielt  in  separate  pans,  a  large  piece  of  white  fondant  and  ]  the 
quantity  of  maple.  Mix  English  v.-alnut  meats  with  the  latter,  and 
pour  in  the  bottom  of  a  mold.  When  cooled,  take  half  the  white 
fondant,  color  pink,  flavor  with  rose  or  cherry,  and  chopped  can- 
died cherries;  pour  over  the  first  candy:  lastly  flavor  the  white 
with  vanilla,  add  nuts  and  chopped  candied  pineapple  and  pour  on 
top  Cover  the  mould  with  oiled  paper  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Remove  from  mould,  put  on  a  fancy  plate,  and  surround  with  glace 
nuts.  A  border  mould  is  very  pretty;  when  this  is  used  fill  the 
center  with  the  glace  nuts. 

VANILLA  CARAMELS. 

Take  2  cups  white  sugar,  2  tablespoons  glucose,  butter  the  size 
of  a  large  hickory  nut ;  boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water ;  add  i 
cup  rich  cream  and  boil  until  it  again  hardens  in  cold  water,  stirring 
constantly.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  vanilla  to  taste,  pour  into 
well  buttered  pans;  when  cool  enough,  cut  into  small  squares  and 
wrap  in  paraffine  paper. 


200  OLD    COUXTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

WHITE  ALMOND  TABLET. 

Mrs.    H.    C.    B?gland. 

Put  1  pound  confectioner's  sugar  on  to  boil  with  1  cup  milk, 
stir  until  the  hard  ball  is  reached.  Butter  a  tin  pan,  and  sprinkle 
thickly  with  blanched  almonds,  whole  or  split.  Stir  the  syrup 
rapidly  after  taking  it  off  until  it  becomes  creamy,  when  pour  over 
the  almonds.  If  it  hardens  too  quickly  to  pour,  add  a  little  water, 
and  put  back  on  the  fire  to  try  again. 


FRUITS. 


AMBROSIA. 

Peel  several  oranges,  removing  the  white  skins,  slice,  taking 
out  the  seeds,  lay  in  a  glass  dish,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
grated  cocoanut.  Add  other  layers,  piling  the  cocoanut  on  top. 
You  may  add  pineapple  if  desired. 

BAKED  APPLES.     ^ 

Wipe  the  apples,  cut  out  any  spots,  and  stand  them  in  an 
eartJTen  baking  dish ;  pour  over  them  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and 
put  a  spoonful  sugar  on  each.  Cover  and  bake,  basting  occasion- 
ally. Let  get  cold  in  the  dish  they  were  baked  in,  put  in  a  glass 
dish,  and  serve  with  cream. 

Pears  may  be  baked  in  the  same  way. 

Apples  may  be  cored  or  not,  peeled  or  not,  sugared  or  not  for 
baking,  according  to  the  taste  of  the  cook,  and  a  good  baking 
apple  needs  no  water.  They  may  be  peeled,  cored  and  quartered, 
put  in  a  pan  in  the  oven,  sprinkled  with  sugar,  a  few  sticks  of 
cinnamon  added,  drawn  butter  poured  over  them,  and  then  baked 
till  done. 

BROWNED  APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  tart  apples ;  roll  in  melted  brown  sugar,  fill 
the  centers  with  chopped  nuts,  and  bake  in  a  pan  with  a  little 
water  about  25  minutes. 


CANDIED  APPLES. 

Pare,  core  and  halve  tart  apples  ;  cover  with  water  and  stew 
till  tender,  not  mushy.  Alake  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  orange  juice, 
boil  till  about  to  candy,  dip  the  apples  in  and  lay  on  a  flat  plate 
till    cold.      Serve   with    whipped    cream. 

DRIED   .APPLE  S.AUCE. 

Wash  thoroughly  and  soak  lo  minutes  in  clean  warm  water : 
drain,  cover  with  cold  soft  water,  put  back  on  the  stove  and  stew 
from  2  to  4  hours.  Do  not  stir  while  cooking,  and  5  minutes  be- 
fore taking  up  season  with  cinnamon,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Mash 
or  not  as  you  like. 

Dried  peaches  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  but  do  not 
mash. 

261 


262  OLD   COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Take  apples  that  are  not  very  sour,  wasli,  core  and  slice  them 
but  do  not  peel.  Put  into  a  frvin^  jian  with  a  large  piece  of 
butter,  and  about  1  cup  sugar.  Cover  and  try  slowly,  stirring 
occasionally  until   doue.     They   should  be   brown   and  gummy. 

STEWED  APPLES. 

Pare  and  core,  and  quarter  the  apples ;  put  in  a  saucepan 
with  i  the  quantity  of  sugar,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  simmer 
till  tender.  Add  a  few  slices  of  lemon  when  nearly  done.  Serve 
cold   or  hot.     If   kept  over   night,   remove   the   lemon   peel. 

APPLE  PORCUPINE. 

Pare  and  core  large  apples;  make  a  syrup  of  equal  parts 
sugar  and  water,  boil  till  rich,  then  add  the  apples  and  cook  till 
soft.  Skim.  Drain  and  cool  the  apples,  fill  the  core  cavities  with 
a  suitable  jelly,  and  stick  the  apples  full  of  blanched  and  split 
almonds.     Serve  with  cream  or  a  cream  sauce. 

BAKED  BANAXAS. 

Peel  and  slice  lengthwise  G  bananas.  Put  in  a  baking  dish. 
Pour  over  them  h  tablespoon  butter  beaten  up  vvith  1  tablespoon 
sugar  and  a  few  drops  vanilla.  Bake  10  minutes,  basting  with 
their  own  s^•rup. 

FRIED  BANANAS. 

Peel  ripe  bananas,  slice  lengthwise,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and 
fry  in  butter.     Serve  hot. 

CRANBERRY   SAUCE. 

Mrs.  Bernard  Mitchell. 

Boil  1  quart  cranberries  with  1  pint  sugar  and  \  pint  water 
for  20  minutes.     Pour  into  the  serving  dish,  and  serve  when   cool. 

STEWED    CRANBERRIES. 

Stem,  and  wash  the  berries,  rejecting  any  spoiled  ones.  Put 
in  a  granite  or  porcelain  lined  kettle,  pour  in  cold  water  till  visible, 
and  cook  till  soft,  10  or  more  minutes.  Take  off  and  mash  with 
a  potato  masher,  add  pint  for  pint  of  sugar,  and  boil  again  jusi 
long  enough  to  remove  all  the  scum.     Serve  cold. 

Green  Gooseberries  are  done  the  same  way,  but  need  not  be 
mashed. 

Ripe  Gooseberries  are  cooked  like  green  ones,  but  require  less 
sugar. 

FROSTED   CURRANTS. 

Take  fine,  clean  bunches  of  ripe  currants,  dip  in  frothed 
white  of  egg  mixe^'  with  a  little  cold  water:  drain  and  roll  in 
I'ulverized  sugar.  Dip  several  times,  and  lay  on  paper  to  dry. 
They   make   a   pretty   garnish    for  jellied   desserts. 


FRUITS.  263 

FKUIT    SALAD.    XO.    1. 

Mrs.   John   E.  Jones. 

Cut  small  3  oranges,  3  bananas,  1  large  apple  and  1  cup  Eng- 
lish walnuts.  Put  a  layer  of  oranges  at  tho  bottom  of  a  glass  dish, 
cover  with  sugar,  then  bananas  and  sugar,  next  apple  and  sugar, 
and  lastl}'  the  nuts.  Let  stand  from  }  to  I  hour  in  a  cold  place 
before  serving. 

FRUIT    SALAD,   NO.   '2. 

Prepare  a  pineapple  for  the  table,  cutting  the  slices  small : 
slice  oranges  in  small  pieces,  removing  the  seeds ;  sprinkle  each 
separately  with  sugar  and  let  stand;  cut  Malaga  grapes  in  half 
removing  the  seeds  ;  and  lastly,  slice  several  bananas  fine,  sprink- 
ling with  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Let  all  infuse  in  their  liquors 
awhile ;  then  mix  together,  and  pour  over  them  a  wine  dressing. 
If  wine  is  not  used,  take  more  lemon  and  sugar.  Serve  in  glasses 
with  a  Maraschino  cherry  on  top. 

Grape  fruit  is  good  with  the  above  fruits,  and  its  juice  is 
very  useful  where  wine  is  not  employed. 

FRENCH  PEACHES. 

Peel,  halve  and  stone  12  peaches ;  sprinkle  with  2  tablespoons 
sugar  and  2  tablespoons  maraschino.  Let  stand  till  absorbed.  Heap 
the  centre  of  a  glass  dish  with  whipped,  sweetened  and  flavored 
cream,  and  arrange  the  peaches  around  it. 

STEWED  PRUNES. 

Wash  thoroughly,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  soak  several 
hours,  or  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  prunes  and  water  in  a 
granite  saucepan  and  simmer  till  tender.  .Sweeten  to  taste ;  some 
prunes  need  no  sugar.  Take  out  the  fruit,  boil  down  the  syrup  a 
little  and  pour  it  over  them.     Serve  cold. 

Any   dried   fruit  may  be  cooked  the  same  way. 

BAKED  QUINCES,  NO.  1. 

Wipe,  core  and  pare  the  quinces;  put  in  a  baking  dish,  half 
fill  with  water,  put  a  heaping  tablespoon  sugar  on  each,  cover  and 
cook  till  soft  in  a  slow  oven,  basting  frequently.  They  are  good 
])aked   in   their  skins,  but  either  way  takes   a   long   time. 

BAKED  QUINCES,  NO.  2. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  the  quinces :  stew  in  clear  water  till 
they  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw ;  put  into  a  baking  dish  with  h 
cup  sugar  to  every  4  quinces,  pour  over  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled,  cover  closely  and  steam  in  the  oven  1  hour :  take  them 
out,  put  in  a  covered  bowl  to  keep  warm,  and  boil  the  syrup  20 
minutes;  pour  over  the  fruit,  cover  and  set  away  to  cool.  Serve 
cold. 


264  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

STEWED  RHUBARB. 

Wash  the  rhubarb  and  cut  in  inch  lengths;  do  not  peel  if 
young;  cover  with  pound  for  pound  of  sugar,  let  heat  slowly  till 
the  sugar  melts,  then  rapidly  until  it  boils.  Skim  and  take  up 
without  stirring.     Serve  cold. 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 


CANNED  FRUIT5. 


Take  fruit  in  good  condition,  clean  and  handle  it  carefully, 
use  granulated  sugar,  have  the  jars  clean,  sterilized,  whole,  the 
tops  and  rubbers  in  the  same  condition,  put  the  fruit  in  boiling 
hot  and  cover  at  once,  and  fruit  will  keep  with  much  or  little 
sugar.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Canned  vegetables  are  much 
more  uncertain.  If  put  in  glass  jars,  it  would  be  well  to  cover 
the  glass. 

APPLES. 

Take  bell  flowers  or  equally  good  apples ;  peel,  core,  and 
throw  into  cold  water  to  keep  from  discoloring.  Weigh  the  fruit 
and  allow  ^  as  much  sugar ;  put  the  apples  on  the  fire,  pour  over 
them  boiling  water,  and  let  cook  slowly  till  nearly  done.  Put  the 
sugar  on  to  boil  with  twice  the  quantity  of  water ;  when  boiling 
transfer  the  apples  with  a  skimmer  to  the  juice;  add  1  lemon  sliced 
to  about  4  pounds  of  fruit ;  boil  until  tender  enough  to  pierce 
easily  with  a  straw.  Lift  carefully  with  a  silver  spoon,  and  fill  the 
heated  jar  standing  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  on  the  stove.  Do  not 
stop  the  kettle  from  boiling.  Fill  the  jar  to  the  brim  with  the 
syrup,  wipe  clean,  put  the  cover  on  instantly,  and  put  aside  out  of 
a  draft  to  cool.  The  next  morning  tighten  the  lids  still  more  if 
possible.  More  apples  may  be  boiled  in  the  same  water,  but  if  any 
syrup  is  left  it  should  be  canned  separately  and  fresh  made.  Do 
not  put  the  lemon  peel  in  the  jars. 

Quinces  may  be  added  to  the  apples  to  mutual  benefit,  in  the 
proportion  of  1  to  4.  . 

Apricots  may  be  canned  as  apples,  either  with  or  without  the 
stones.  In  the  latter  case,  add  a  few  kernels  to  the  syrup.  Omit 
the  lemon. 

APPLES  WITH   PINEAPPLE. 

To  4  pounds  of  apples  allow  1  good  sized  pineapple.  Pare  it. 
remove  the  eyes  and  grate  it,  adding  it  to  the  syrup  preparing 
for  the  apples,  with  an  extra  allowance  of  sugar  for  it.  Quarter 
the  apples,  and  continue  as  for  canned  apples,  omitting  the  lemon. 

BLACKBERRIES. 

Put  the  berries  in  a  porcelain  lined  kettle,  cover  with  \  the 
quantity  of  sugar,  and  let  stand  1  hour  or  more.  Put  over  the 
fire,  and   let  come  to  the  boil.     Skim  and   can  innnediatcly. 

265 


'266  O/,/)    C  OCX  TRY   Rr.ClPRS   AND   NEW. 

Blue1)crries.  elderberries,  lilack  and  red  raspberries  are  canned 
like  bkickberriea  :  ripe  gooseberries  and  strawlierrics  require  twice 
as  much  sugar;  otherwise  they  are  canned  like  blackberries.  If 
meant  for  table  use  all  canned  fruit  should  be  sweetened  to  taste, 
as  the  berries  themselves  vary  in  different  pickings.  SauCe  should 
have  enough  in  the  first  jdace ;  pies  are  improved  by  adding  it 
fresh. 

CHERRIES. 

For  table  use  do  not  stone ;  for  pies,  stone  the  cherries,  and  in 
either  case  allow  h  pound  sugar  to  1  pound  fruit,  if  sour  cherries. 
If  a  sweet  variety,  use  less  sugar.     Continue  as  with  blackberries. 

CRANBERRIES. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries  very  carefully,  stemming  such 
as  need  it,  and  throwing  out  the  soft  ones.  Fill  the  jars  and  pour 
in  cold  water  till  it  overflows  ;  screw  on  the  tops  and  let  stand  24 
hours.  Open  the  jars,  pour  off  the  water,  fill  again  to  overflowing 
with  fresh  water,  and  screw  on  the  lids  "for  keeps."  They  may 
also  be  canned  as  stewed   for  the  table. 

Green  gooseberries  and  green  currants,  it  is  said,  may  be  kept 
in   the   same   way. 

CURRANTS. 

Can  at  any  stage  of  ripeness  or  unripeness,  if  they  have  begun 
to  be  juicy.  Stem  the  currants,  and  allow  -4  their  weight  of  sugar. 
Finish  as  blackberries. 

If  currants  are  added  to  red  raspberries  it  should  be  in  the 
form  of  juice,  using  about  i  currants.  Allow  extra  sugar  for  the 
juice,  pint  for  pint. 

GRAPES. 

Take  ripe  grapes  and  snip  off  the  stems  close  to  the  grapes 
without  cutting  the  skins.  Fill  Mason  jars  with  the  fruit,  and  set 
on  a  board  in  the  oven  turning  on  the  heat  so  as  to  heat  through 
without  breaking  the  skins.  Make  some  grape  juice  as  for  jelly, 
have  pint  for  pint  of  sugar  hot,  and  when  the  juice  comes  to  the 
boil,  add  the  hot  sugar,  stir  till  dissolved  only,  boil  a  few  moments 
till  the  scum  can  be  removed.  Take  out  the  grapes  a  jar  at  a 
time,  and  fill  the  jar  full  with  the  juice,  sealing  at  once.  Plums 
may  be  canned  whole  the  same  way. 

GREEN  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Stem  and  wash  the  berries.  If  for  sauce,  allow  pint  for  pint 
of  sugar.  If  for  pies,  \  the  amount  is  better.  Finish  as  with 
blackberries. 

PEACHES. 

Pare  and  stone  the  peaches  and  throw  them  into  cold  water. 
Put  half  the  weight  in  sugar  on  the  fire  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
water,  and  stir  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Put  in  the  peaches, 
bring  quickly  to  the  boil,   skim,   and   let   simmer  slowly   till   tender. 


c-iv.vED  ria-rrs  and  vecf.tabi.fs.         267 

Lift    very    carefully    into    jars,    fill    to    tlic    I)rim    witli    tlic    i)oilinK 
s\  nip,  and  fasten  up.     A   few  kfernels  arc  an  improvement. 

Small  and  inferior  peaches  and  clings  should  he  pared  only 
and  not  stoned.  Some  jars  even  of  freestones  should  be  done  that 
way,  as  the  ilavor  is  superior  to  that  of  the  stoned  fruit. 

P1NE.A.PPLE. 

Mi-s.     .Xndrcw     ShuUlewoiili. 

Peel  the  fruit,  take  out  the  core  and  eyes,  slice  or  grate  it  and 
sprinkle  over  night  with  %  pound  sugar  to  1  pound  pineapple.  Add 
1  cup  water  to  each  4  pounds  fruit,  cook  and  .skim  for  20  minutes, 
and  can. 

PLUMS. 

Allow  •]  the  weight  of  the  plums  in  sugar;  cover  with  it  and 
let  stand  over  night.  For  small  plums  conti^me  as  with  black- 
berries, cocking  slowly  until  lender.  Prick  large  plums  before 
sugaring  down. 

QUINCES. 

Pare  and  quarter  the  quinces,  removing  the  cores.  Continue 
as  with  apples,  but  allow  twice  as  much  sugar  and  no  lemon.  Use 
the  parings  and  the  skins  (not  the  cores)  for  jelly,  and  cover  with 
the  water  the  quinces  were  boiled  in. 

RHUBARB. 

Take  young  and  tender  rhubarb,  wash,  peel  and  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Pack  in  glass  jars,  fill  to  overflowing  with  fresh  cold  water, 
screw  on  the  covers  tight,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  off  the 
water,  till  again  to  overflowing  with  fresh  water,  screw  the  lids  on 
again,  and  put  in  a  cool  dark  place. 

Rhubarb  may  also  be  canned  as  .stewed  for  the  table. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Stem  the  berries,  and  wash  in  a  colander  if  sandy.  Allow  \ 
pound  sugar  to  1  pound  berries,  mix  with  the  berries,  and  let  stand 
1  hour.  If  there  is  not  enough  juice  extracted,  add  a  little  water 
to  the  kettle,  and  boil  5  minutes. 


CANNED  VEGETABLES. 


CORN,  No.   1. 

Mrs.    Frank    Connell. 


Take  9  cups  young  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  add  1  cup  water,  1 
cup  sugar,  ^  or  ii'cup  salt.  Boil  H>  minutes  and  seal  in  glass  jars. 
When  opening  for  use.  drain  ofT  the  liqui^r,  and  freshen  the  corn 
in  lukewarm  water  for  3  or  4  hours.  Then  drain  again  and  cook 
in  milk,  seasoning  to  taste.     The  sugaj"  may  be.  omitted,  if  desired. 


268  OLD    COrXTRV   RECIPES   AND   XEIV. 

CORN.  No.  -2. 

Fill  the  jars  with  cut  err,  and  then  proceed  as  for  String 
Beans,  No.  3,  but  without  adding  water.  Screw  the  lids  on;  at 
the  end  of  3  hours  Irosen  them  up  a  moment,  then  screw  up  again 
and  boil  another  hour.  The  cans  must  be  just  as  full  as  they  can 
hold  and  the  lids  not   too  tight  at  first. 

CORN    AND  TOMATOES. 

Take  yoiuig  green  corn,  cut  from  the  cob  and  put  in  a  kettle 
with  twice  the  quantity  of  peeled  and  quartered  tomatoes.  Bring 
to  the  boil  and  cook  till  the  tomatoes  are  soft,  then  can.  Corn  is 
certain  to  keep  in  this  way.  Less  tomatoes  wall  answer.  Some 
prefer  to  cook  the  corn  on  the  cob  first  for  10  minutes. 

PEAS. 

Select  tender  young  peas.  Shell  and  pack  closely  in  the  jars, 
and   continue  as   with   String  Beans,   No.   2. 

PEPPERS  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Mrs.    E.     .S.    Martin. 

Halve  the  peppers,  remove  the  seeds,  and  soak  in  salt  water 
1  hour.  Add  to  a  kettle  of  tomatoes,  in  any  proportion  liked,  and 
can  with  them. 

PUMPKIN. 

Wash  and  cut  in  small  squares  without  peeling ;  fill  the  kettle, 
add  a  very  little  water  to  start  it,  cover  closely  and  steam  till 
tender;  take  off  the  cover  and  boil  dry  if  it  takes  all  day,  stirring 
often.  Put  in  jars  or  cans  and  seal  immediately.  If  in  glass, 
cover  the  jar  to  keep  but  the  light. 

SPINACH. 

Pick  over  fresh  spinach  with  more  than  usual  care,  and  wash 
through  several  waters.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  about  20 
minutes  or  till  done.  Take  out  with  a  fork  and  pack  in  hot  jars, 
filling  them  very  full.  Pour  in  boiling  water  till  it  overflows,  and 
seal. 

Okra,  beans  of  all  kinds,  peas,  whole  beets,  whole  tomatoes, 
succotash,  etc.,  may  all  be  canned  in  the  same  way,  by  preparing 
as   for  the  table  and  boiling  till  tender,   not  soft. 

STRING  BEANS,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.   W.    J.    Miller. 

Take  yoimg  green  beans,  string  and  break  them,  and  cook 
about  \  hour  or  until  tender.  Drain  and  fill  Mason  jars,  putting 
first  a  layer  of  beans  and  then  a  layer  of  salt,  finishing  up  with 
the  salt.  Seal  immediately.  When  wanted  for  use  soak  until 
perfectly  fresh,  then  cook  as  if  they  were  fresh  beans.  They  may 
also  be  packed  in  stone  jars  \vith  a  weight  on  top,  and  well  tied  up. 


CANNED   FRUITS   AND    VEGETABLES.  269 

strixg'beaxs.  no.  2. 

Mrs.    John    Sweeney. 

String  beans  should  be  tender  and  young.  String  them  and 
break  into  1  inch  lengths.  Pack  closely  in  tin  cans  or  glass  jars, 
add  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  sugar  dissolved  in  water  to  each 
jar,  fill  the  jars  with  cold  water,  and  cover  loosely.  Fut  ma 
kettle  or  boiler,  pack  hav  around  to  keen  the  jars  steady,  hll  with 
cold  water  to  the  neck  of  the  jars,  and  boil  3  hours.  Keep  the 
water  in  the  boiler  at  the  same  height  by  addmg  bodnig  water. 
Screw  the  lids  on  tight,  and  when  the  bottles  are  cold,  screw 
again.  If  cans  are  used,  take  off  the  lid.  wipe  dry,  return  it 
immediately  and  seal  before  taking  out  of  the  kettle. 

Lima  beans,  peas  and  asparagus  tips  may  be  canned  m  tlic 
same  way. 

STRIXG  BEANS,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.    Blanche    Eberts. 

Can  according  to  String  Beans.  No.  2,  l)Ut  omit  the  salt  and 
sugar. 

TOMATOES. 

Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  cut  in  (juarters,  and  boil  until 
soft  Ad'd  an  even  tablespoon  salt  to  a  kettle.  Stir  and  skim  as 
often  as  necessary.  Keep  the  tomatoes  boiling  while  lillmg  the 
jars.  If  wanted  as  whole  as  possible,  do  not  quarter,  and  only 
heat  them  through.  

FRUIT  JELLIES 


Make  jellv  on  a  clear  dav.  Take  the  fruit  just  npe  or  a 
little  under  ripe.  Do  not  pick  it  just  after  a  rain,  and  do  not 
wash  unless  sandv.  Large  fruits  should  be  wiped  clean,  the  de- 
caved  spots  removed,  then  cut  in  quarters  or  less,  placed  in  a 
preserving  kettle,  and  barelv  covered  with  cold  water.  Cover  the 
kettle  and  let  cook  slowly  till  soft.  Stir  occasionally  to  keep  from 
burning.  The  small  fruits  should  be  picked  over  carefullv,  placed 
in  a  stone  jar  inside  a  large  preserving  kettle,  the  kettle  hllcd  witli 
hot  water  as  high  as  practicable,  and  kept  filled  with  boiling  water 
as  fast  as   it  boils  away.     Stir  once  in  a   while  to  heat  the   fruit 

\\'hen  soft  turn  the  fruit  into  a  coarse  flannel  bag  (first  dipped 
in  hot  water  and  wrung  drv),  tie  the  bag.  and  hang  it  up  till  the 
juice  all  drains  out.  Do  not  squeeze  the  light  colored  jellies,  or 
thev  will  be  cloudv.  When  the  juice  quits  dripping,  squeeze  dry 
for"  a  second  grade  of  jelly.  Measure  the  juice,  put  it  over  the 
fire  in  a  preserving  kettle,  and  bring  it  to  a  boil.  Allow  pint  tor 
pint  of  sugar,  and  put  it  in  earthen  dishes  where  it  will  heat. 
When  the  juice  boils,  skim  it  well,  add  the  sugar,  stirring  just 
enough  to  dissolve  it  quicklv.  and  boil  without  stirring  tdl  done. 
Put  a  little  in  a  cold  saucer,  and  if  it  jellies  on  top  it  is  done. 
Or  dip  a  spoon  into  the  boiling  syrup,  and  if  the  last  drops  cling 
to  the  spoon,  while  the  bowl  remains  covered,  it  is  done.     Begin 


270  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

testing  ill  15  minutes  unless  it  appears  done  earlier.  The  time 
depends  somewhat  upon  the  amount  of  water,  and  the  thorough- 
ness of  the  previous  cooking  of  the  fruit.  Skim  well  and  take 
off  the  stove. 

Have  the  glasses  ready,  washed  in  hot  water,  and  kept  hot ; 
take  the  syrup  out  with  a  cup  and  liU  them,  pouring  a  little  at 
a  time  in  each.  A  silver  teaspoon  left  in  a  glass  while  filling  is 
a  safeguard  against  cracking.  Keep  the  glasses  out  of  a  draft 
until  cold.  The  next  day,  if  the  jelly  is  set,  cut  white  glazed 
paper  to  fit  the  inside  of  the  glasses,  dip  in  brandy  and  lay  over 
the  jelly.  Or  pour  melted  parafiin  over  it  to  the  depth  of  \  an  inch. 
Fasten  on  the  tin  tops  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  A  trouble- 
some, but  satisfactory  top  consists  of  white  glazed  paper,  cut  a 
little  larger  than  the  tops  of  the  glasses,  dipped  in  white  of.  egg, 
and   pasted   over  with  the   hands. 

If  the  jelly  is  not  firm  in  24  hours,  cover  with  paper  or  glass 
and  set  in  the  sun  for  several  days.  If  still  not  jellied,  boil  it 
over. 

Some  fruits  make  a  "ropy"  jellv.  If  some  one  of  the  reliable 
kinds  is  combined  with  an  unreliable  one,  it  will  correct  this. 
Grape,  quince,  apple  and  currant  give  no  trouble.  Apple,  or  rhubarb, 
makes  a  good  base  for  the  more  expensive  jellies,  and  also  tones 
down  too  strong  a  flavor. 

APPLE   JELLY. 

Wipe  the  apples,  cut  out  spots,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put 
in  a  preserving  kettle,  place  over  the  fire,  and  pour  over  fresh 
water  until  nearly  covered.  If  the  apples  are  somewhat  tasteless, 
cut  part  of  a  lemon  in  with  the  fruit.  Proceed  according  to  gen- 
eral instructions. 

BLACKBERRY    JELLY. 

Make  according  to  general  instructions  for  small  fruit. 
Squeeze. 

CHERRY  JELLY. 

Make  according  to   general   instructions   for   small    fruit. 

CRABAPPLE  JELLY. 
Make  precisely  like  apple  jelly,  but  do  not  use  lemon. 

CRANBERRY   JELLY. 

Put  the  berries  in  the  kettle,  with  ]  the  amount  of  water, 
and  boil  until  soft,  about  10  minutes.  Squeeze  through  a  bag. 
Return  the  juice  to  the  kettle,  with  an  equal  amount  of  sugar,  and 
boil  about  15  minutes  or  until  it  jellies. 

CURRANT   JELLY. 

Pick  the  leaves  and  spoiled  fruit  from  the  currants ;  do  not 
stem,  and  only  wash  the  bunches  that  are  sandy.  Put  in  a  stone 
jar,  set  that  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  proceed  according  to  gen- 
eral instructions.    Test  the  jelly  in  5  minutes  or  less. 


CANNED   FRUITS   AND    VEGETABLES.  271 

Currant  shrub  may  I)c  made  from  the  mashed  currants  in  the 
bag,  after  the  juice  lias  quit  dripping.  Turn  them  into  a  stone 
jar,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  stand  over  night.  Squeeze 
through  a  jelly  bag,  sweeten  to  taste,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over 
"it,  and  put  on  the  ice  till  cjuite  cold. 

GOOSE RKRRY  JELLY. 

Put  the  berries  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  a  little  water,  as 
with  the  large   fruits.     Finisli   according  to  general   directions. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  hunches,  and  make  according  to 
general   instructions   for   small    fruit. 

GREEN    GRAPE    JELLY. 

Take  the  grapes  just  as  thcv  start  to  color.  Cut  from  the 
bunches,  wash  if  necessary,  and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle,  pouring 
in  water  until  it  is  seen.  Continue  according  to  general  directions. 
The   large    fox   grape   makes   the   best  jelly. 

PEACH  JELLY. 

Pare,  stone  and  cut  up  the  ])cachcs.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  with 
a  very  little  water,  and  a  few  of  the  kernels.  Put  the  jar  in  a 
kettle  and  pour  boiling  water  in  the  kettle.  Continue  according 
to  general  directions.  A  little  lemon  juice  strained  and  added  to 
the  peach  juice  will  help  it  to  jelly. 

PEAR   JELLY. 
]\lake  precisely  like  apple  jelly. 

PLUM  JELLY. 

Wash  the  plums,  put  in  a  kettle  with  a  little  water,  and  cook 
till  they  go  to  pieces.  Strain  without  squeezing.  Finish  accord- 
ing to  general  instructions. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Wipe  the  quinces,  cut  out  spots,  quarter  and  remove  the 
cores,  then  cut  into  smaller  pieces.  Put  in  the  preserving  kettle, 
cover  with  cold  water,  and  continue  according  to  general  instruc- 
tions. Where  apples  are  plentiful  and  quinces  scarce,  i  apples  may 
be  used :  and  the  parings  from  c|uince  preserves  and  marmalade 
should  be  used  in  making  jelly.  Test  the  jelly  after  15  mivutei 
boiling. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Make  according  to  general  instructions  for  small  fruit,  h.  cur- 
rants is  a  pleasant  addition,  a,nd  ensures  the  jellying. 


272  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

RHUBARB  JELLY. 

Cut  the  rhubarb  into  inch  lengtlis,  put  in  a  preserving  kettle 
with  1  small  cup  water  to  each  2  quarts  of  rhubarb ;  simmer  till 
soft,  and  squeeze  through  a  jelly  bag.  Allow  1  pound  sugar  for 
each  pint  juice.  Continue  according  to  general  directions.  A 
few  apples,  or  half  blackberries  may  be  added  to  the   rhubarb. 

STRAWBERRY   JELLY. 

Make   according  to   general  instructions   for   small    fruit. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 

Mrs.    Nick    Fuchs. 

Take  yellow  or  bright  red  tomatoes :  cut  them  up  and  boil 
until  soft  with  a  small  piece  of  lemon.  Turn  into  a  cheesecloth 
bag  and  drain  without  squeezing.  To  1  pint  tomato  juice  take 
f   pint  sugar.     Continue   according   to  general   instructions. 

TUTTI   ERUTTT   JELLY. 

Mis.    Rorer. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  sour  cherries,  red  raspberries,  cur- 
rants and  strawberries.  Mix  together,  put  in  a  jelly  bag  and 
squeeze  hard.  Wash  the  bag  out  well,  return  tlie  juice  to  it,  and 
let  drip  through  without  squeezing.  Xow  proceed  according  to 
general    directions. 


PRESERVES,  JAMS  AND  SYRUPS. 


APPLE  BUTTER,  No.  L 

Mr.s.    Ricliard    Johnson. 

Wash,  core  and  cut  the  apples  small;  cover  with  water  and  stew 
till  tender;  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  flavor  with  oil  of  cinnamon 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Put  back  in  tlic  kettle  and  boil,  stirring  con- 
stantlv,   till    done. 

APPLE    BUTTER.    No.    -2. 

Cook  \  bushel  good  pippins  thoroughly  in  1  gallon  sweet  fresh 
cider ;  rub  throue-h  a  colander ;  return  to  the  fire,  add  6  pounds 
white  sugar,  cook  several  hours  stirring  constantly.  \  hour  before 
it  is  done  add  ground  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice  to  taste.  Cook 
till  quite  thick;  when  cod  pour  into  stone  jars,  and  cover  tight. 

APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Peel  and  slice  fine  25  pcunds  good  cooking  apples,  add  1  quart 
cold  water  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  cover  the  kettle  and  cook  slowly 
until  soft.  Press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Allow  f  pound 
granulated  sugar  to  each  pound  marmalade,  put  in  a  fresh  kettle, 
add  2  gills  cold  water,  a  little  vanilla,  and  cook  over  a  brisk  fire 
for    10   minutes.     Add   marmalade,   and   boil   for    12   minutes,   con- 


CA.\'y^FJ)   FRUITS   AND    VEGETABLES.  273 

stantly  stirring,  fill  Mason  jars  while  hot  and  seal.     This  will  keep 
in  stone  jars  if  covered  with  brandy  papers  and  tied  up  tight. 
Pear  and  quince  marmalades  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

BLACK    CURRANT   JAM. 

Prepare  rhubarb  as  for  jelly,  and  take  3  pints  rhubarb  juice. 
Put  it  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  9  pounds  sugar,  stir  till  it  boils 
then  add  6  pounds  black  currants,  and  boil  for  15  minutes  or  until 
the  currants  are  tender.     Seal  in  small  jars. 

BRANDY  PEACHES. 

Take  fresh  clingstones,  and  drop  for  a  minute  in  boiling  lye 
Take  out  with  a  perforated  ladle,  and  drop  into  cold  water.  Rub 
with  a  rough  towel  to  remove  the  skins,  and  drop  into  a  prepared 
svrup  of  i  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  water  enough 
to  dissolve  it.  Let  cook  15  minutes,  take  from  the  syrup,  and  pu 
on  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup  down  to  half  and  add  an  equal 
quantity   of  old  peach  brandy  or  French   brandy.     Seal  or   tie  up 

•"  ^^^"  CHERRY  JAM. 

Stone  the  cherries.  Put  them  in  a  kettle  over  a  good  fire  If 
sweet  cherries  allow  I  quart  sugar  lo  1  quart  stcned  fruit;  a  little 
fresh  currant  juice  may  also  be  added.  If  sour  cherries,  the  sugar 
should  be  almost  quart  for  quart.     Continue  as  for  gooseberry  jam. 

CURRANT  SYRUP. 

Mrs.  E.   S.   Martin. 

Prepare  the  currant  juice  as  for  jelly.  Put  in  a  kettle  with 
lialf  the  quantity  of  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved,  and  boil  brisk  y 
just  until  it  can  be  well  skimmed.  Have  ready  some  thoroughly 
clean  hot  bottles,  till,  cork  and  seal.     A  little  raspberry  juice  is  an 

improvemen^.^_^  juices  are  prepared  in  a  similar  manner  using  less 
su-ar  for  the  sweeter  fruits.  They  make  delicious  drinks  with  the 
addition  of  a  little  water  (and,  in  some  cases,  lemon)  and  ice.  Are 
also  useful  for  water  ices  and  pudding  sauces.  Have  the  juice 
clear,  bottle  while  very  hot,  and  neither  sweeten  enough  nor  cook 
long 'enough  to  have  it  turn  to  jelly. 

GREEN  GOOSEBERRY  JA^I. 

Mrs.    H.    C.    Begland. 

Stem  and  wash  1  pound  green  gooseberries,  put  in  a  kettle 
with  2  pounds  sugar  and  2  cups  water.  Boil  1  hour  or  until  they 
become  red.        ^^^^  GOOSEBERRY  JAM,  No.  1. 

■\[rs.    Francis. 
Boil  1  pound  sugar  with  U  cups  water  10  minutes;  add  1  pound 
ripe  gooseberries  and  cook  1  hour. 


18 


274  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

RIPE  GOOSEBERRY  JAM,  No.  2. 

Stem  and  wash  ripe  gocseberries,  and  measure  them.  Put  in 
a  preserving  kettle  and  mash  witli  a  potato  masher.  Add  |  sugar 
and  boil  20  minutes,  or  more,  stirring  continuously.  Skim,  seal 
very  hot  in  Mason  jars,  or,  if  boiled  down  sufificiently,  pour  in 
stone  jars,  cover  with  brandied  paper  and  tie  up  securely. 

Blackberry,  raspberry,  strawberry,  huckleberry  and  currant  jams 
are  made  precisely  as  gooseberry  jam,  except  that  the  amount  of 
sugar  varies,  —  less  for  huckleberries  and  blackberries,  more  for 
currants.  Jams  should  always  be  sweetened  according  to  taste,  i 
currants  to  3  red  raspberries  improves  either  jam,  as  4  pineapple 
improves   strawberry  jam. 

GRAPE  JAM. 

Stem  and  wash  ripe  Concord  grapes.  Pop  them,  put  the  pulps 
in  a  kettle  and  stew  until  the  seeds  will  separate.  Press  through 
a  colander  to  remove  the  seeds,  return  the  pulp  to  the  kettle  with 
the  skins,  and  for  every  quart  of  grape  add  f  quart  sugar.  Finish 
as  gooseberry  jam. 

GRAPE  JUICE,  No.  1. 

Mrs.    D.    A.    Williams. 

Mash  3  quarts  fresh  grapes,  pour  over  them  2  quarts  cold  water, 
and  1  ounce  tartaric  acid.  Let  stand  24  hours,  and  strain.  To  2 
pints  of  juice,  add  1  pint  sugar,  put  over  the  fire,  let  come  just  to 
the  boil,  bottle  and  seal  while  hot. 

GRAPE  JUICE,  No.  2. 

Mrs.   Anna  Abram. 

Take  4  quarts  ripe  grapes,  picked  from  their  stems  and  washed ; 
cover  with  water  and  cook  very  slowly  until  the  grapes  are  soft. 
Drain  through  a  double  cheesecloth.  Add  4  cups  white  sugar,  and 
when  dissolved  let  boil  up  once.  Bottle  and  seal,  and  keep  in  a 
dark  place.  Serve  with  equal  amount  of  syrup  and  water  and  a 
little  lemon. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE,  No.  1. 

Mrs.    Peter   McQuade. 

Slice  the  oranges  on  a  cabbage  sheer.  Weigh  them,  and  to 
every  pound  of  fruit,  add  1\  pints  water.  Boil  f  hour.  Let  stand 
24  hours,  weigh  again  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  li  pounds 
sugar,  and  juice  of  2  lemons.  Do  not  put  sugar  in  till  the  fruit 
comes  to  a  boil,  and  cook  only  until  clear.  Skim  and  put  into 
pint  glasses  or  jars. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE,  No.  2. 

Mrs.    Wm.    J.     Davis. 

Put  6  large  oranges  and  4  lemons  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  boil  slowly  2  hours.  Take  out  the  fruit  and  reduce  the 
juice  to  1  quart.  Take  out  the  seeds,  and  shred  the  fruit  very  fine 
(using  the  scissors)  ;  then  return  to  the  juice,  and  add  10  pounds 
granulated  sugar,  and  boil  slowly  for  35  minutes. 


CANNED   FRUITS   AMD    VEGETABLES.  275 

ORANGE  MARMALADE,  No.  3. 

Mrs.    David   Campbell. 

Wipe  4  pounds  bitter  oranges  and  2  lemons  thoroughly  .and 
grate  off  all  fhe  yellow  rind.  Cut  off  all  the  white  inner  nndpu 
ft  aside  and  cut  the  pulp  up  fine  into  a  preserving  kettle  wUh  2 
au.rts  vva?er  let  boil  .V  hour,  stirring  frequently;  strain  through 
a  iellv  bac^  without  squeezing.  Measure  the  liquor  and  put  back 
fn 'the  keule  with  1  pint  sugar  to  each  |  pint ;  add  the  yellow  grating, 
and  let  it  boil  hard  for  lU  minutes.     Skim  and  can. 

ORANGE  SYRUP. 

Boil  1  pint  orange  juice  with  1  pound  sugar  10  minutes      Skim, 
and  bottle  when  cold.     Use   for  drinks,  pudding   sauces    ec 
Lemon  syrup  is  made  the  same  way,  using  2  pints  sugar. 

PEACH   BUTTER. 

Mrs.     T.     Williamson. 
Pare   and   halve   i   bushel   peaches;   put   in   a   large   kettle   and 
stir  consta^^^lv  to  prev-ent  sticking  until  perfectly  smooth  and  thick 
Put  T  number  of  kernels  in  at   first,  and  take  them  out  before   i 
fslmie      Add  5  pounds  sugar,  when  nearly  done;  put  in  jars,  and 
cover  tight  or  seal.     A  little  cider  boiled  with   it  is  good. 

PEACH   MARMALADE. 

Take  25  pounds  ripe  good  peaches,  halve  them,  remove  the 
stones,  cut  in  two  again,  add  1  quart  cold  ^vater  and  1  pomi^^^ 
granulated  sugar,  and  cook  over  a  b"^^  h re  until  soft  stirring 
freauently.  Remove,  and  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Crack , 
he  peacl  stones,  remove  the  kernels,  and  blanch  them  adding  a 
umber  of  them  to  the  marmalade  about  five  minutes  be  ore  it  is 
done  With  this  exception  peach  marmalade  is  continued  accord- 
ing to  the  apple  marmalade   recipe. 

Apricot  marmalade  is  made  m  the  same  way. 

PINEAPPLE    HONEY. 

Boil  2  pints  sugar  and  2  pints  water  until  thick  .-is  honey. 
When  nearly  done  add  1  grated  pineapple  and  stir  till  tlnck  enough. 

PINEAPPLE  SYRUP. 

Put  3  pounds  of  prepared  pineapple  in  1  cpiart  water  :  boil  till 
very  soft.  Mash  and  strain:  to  1  pint  juice  take  1  pound  sugar, 
boil  to  a  syrup,  bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

PLUT^I   BUTTER. 

Mrs.   Thomas  Fletcher. 

Cook  1  peck  plums  and  h  bushel  sweet  apples  in  separate 
kettles  till  soh.  with  just  enough  water  to  prevent  scorclnng^ 
Rub  through  a  colander,  mix,  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  add  i 
pomid  sugar;  cook  till  thick  enough,  put  mto  jars  and  seal. 


276  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

PLUM  JAM. 

Allow  1  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  large  plums,  and  1  cup 
water.  Put  the  plums  and  water  on  the  stove,  and  bring  to  the 
boiling  point.  Take  out  the  plums  with  a  skimmer,  and  remove 
the  skins  and  seeds.  Put  these  back  in  the  kettle  and  boil  20 
minutes,  then  strain,  put  back  in  the  kettle  with  the  sugar,  let 
boil  5  minutes,  then  add  the  plums  and  cook  about  30  minutes, 
or   until   done. 

Small  plums  may  be  boiled  down  thick  with  or  without  the 
seeds,    but    retaining    the    skins. 

POT  POURRI. 

Mrs.    Tlitodore    Oxholm. 

Put  any  left  over  fruit  in  a  jar,  add  1  or  more  sugar,  and 
cover  well  with  brandy.  From  day  to  day,  other  fruits  may  be 
added,  always  putting  in  the  proper  amount  of  sugar.  When  the 
jar  is  full,  leave  enough  brandy  to  cover  well,  and  seal.  If  these 
jars  are  started  at  the  beginning  of  summer,  many  an  odd  saucer 
of  berries  will  be  saved,  and  the  pot  pourri  is  delicious,  served 
with   ice  cream. 

PRESERVED  CHERRIES. 

Wash,  stem  and  stone  tart  cherries.  Save  the  juice  and  put 
in  a  preserving  kettle  with  the  sugar,  allowing  pound  for  pound 
of  fruit  and  sugar.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved  put  in  the 
cherries,  and  boil  until  the  juice  is  thick.  Put  in  glasses  or  sealed 
jars.  If  the  cherries  are  covered  with  the  sugar  for  an  hour  or 
two,  there  will  be  more  syrup. 

Currants  are  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

PRESERVED  CRABAPPLES. 

Select  ripe  Siberian  crabs  and  wash  them.  Put  in  a  kettle, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  simmer  till  the  skin  will  peel  easily; 
then  drain,  skin  and  take  out  the  cores  with  a  penknife.  Weigh 
and  allow  pound  for  pound  of  sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  half 
the  quantity  of  water,  boil  and  skim  till  clear.  Add  the  crabs  and 
boil  slowly  till  tender,  skimming  and  stirring  as  necessary.  When 
done,  put  in  small  jars  or  tumblers,  cover  with  the  syrup,  and  let 
get  cold.     Cover  as  you  would  jelly. 

Or  the  fruit  may  be  cored  in  the  first  place  and  not  peeled  at 
all. 

PRESERVED  DAMSONS. 

Stem  the  fruit;  put  in  stone  jars  in  alternate  layers  with  an 
equal  weight  of  sugar.  Cover  the  jars,  place  them  in  a  large 
kettle  of  cold  water,  bring  to  the  boil,  and  let  simmer  till  tender. 
Put  the  damsons  carefully  into  tumblers  or  jars,  pour  the  juice 
into  a  preserving  kettle,  boil  it  briskly  1")  minutes,  strain  through 
a  jelly  bag,  and  pour  over  the  fruit.  Seal  the  jars,  and  cover  the 
glasses  when  cold  as  for  jelly. 


CAXXED   fKUITS   AND    J-EGETABLES.  277 

PRESERVED  MULF'.ERRIES. 

JMrs.    Roicr. 

Put  1  pound  mulberries  and  1  cup  water  in  a  preserving 
kettle,  simmer  till  soft,  then  strain  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice. 
Put  this  back  in  the  kettle,  add  4|  pounds  sugar,  boil  and  skim 
till  clear,  add  4  pounds  mull)erries,  and  simmer  15  minutes.  Set 
aside  over  night.  ]t  the  juice  is  not  jellied  in  the  morning,  simmer 
again  15  minutes,  breaking  the  berries  as  little  as  possible.  Put 
into  jars  or  tumblers,  and  fasten  up  when  cold. 

PRESERVED  PEACHES. 

Take  ripe  freestones.  Pare,  halve  and  stone.  Weigh  and  allow 
pound  for  pound  of  sugar.  Put  in  lavers  in  a  bowl  over  night. 
In  the  morning  turn  into  a  preserving  kettle,  add  .V  dozen  kernels 
to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Skim  and  set  back  to 
simmer  till  tender.  Put  carefully  into  jars  or  tumblers,  and  pour 
the  syrup  over  them.     Seal  or  cover. 

Apricots  and  pears  may  be  done  in  the  same  way.  Pears  re- 
quire a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon,  or  a  few  slices  of  lemon  for 
flavoring. 

PRESERVED  PIXEAPPLE. 

Peel  the  pineapples,  cut  out  all  the  eyes  and  grate.  .Allow 
equal  weight  of  sugar  and  pineapple,  and  boil,  stirring  often,  until 
it   forms  a   rich  jam. 

PRESERVED  PLUMS. 

Treat  the  plums  as  you  do  crabapples :  when  skinned,  weigh 
and  allow  pound  for  pound  of  suo^ar.  Mix  the  sugar  through 
them  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  off  the  juice 
into  a  kettle,  bring  to  the  boil,  skim  till  clear,  add  the  plums  and 
simmer  till  clear,  perhaps  ;10  minutes.  Put  carefully  into  tumblers 
or  small  jars,  boil  the  syrup  down  a  little  more,  and  pour  over 
them.     Cover  or  seal  as  required. 

PRESERVED  QUINCES. 

Pare,  core  and  slice  or  quarter  the  quinces.  Put  in  the  kettle, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  simmer  till  tender.  Take  out  and 
place  on  platters  till  all  arc  done.  Use  the  same  water  for  all. 
Put  the  parings  and  rough  pieces  into  this  water,  cover,  and  sim- 
mer 1  hour;  strain  and  measure,  allowing  pint  for  pint  in  sugar. 
Put  back  in  the  kettle  with  the  sugar  and  stir  till  it  is  dissolved, 
and  boil  for  10  minutes,  skimming  thoroughlv.  Now  add  the 
quinces  and  boil  till  clear,  tender  and  red.  Keep  the  cover  on. 
When  done,  put  into  glasses  or  jars,  boil  the  syrup  till  about  to 
jelly,  pour  over  the  fruit,  and  let  get  cold  before  fastening  up. 

PRESERVED  STRAWBERRIES. 

,  Marion  Plarl.ind. 

,^tem  the  berries,  separating  the  tine  ones  from  the  bruised. 
Mash  the  latter  and  strain   through   a  jelly  bag.     Allow    1    pound 


278  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  put  in  the  preserving  kettle  and  boil 
juice  and  sugar  for  15  minutes,  or  until  showing  signs  of  jellying. 
Weigh  the  perfect  berries,  allowing  pound  for  pound,  add  the 
sugar  to  the  syrup,  then  the  fruit,  let  cook  through,  skim  and 
put  in  jars. 

Raspberries   and   blackberries  arc   preserved   in   the   same   way. 

PRESERVED  STRAWBERRIES  AND  PINEAPPLE. 

Mrs.    L.    G.   Byrne. 

Prepare  the  fruit,  allow  '■.  pineapple  to  3  strawberries  and  cook 
according-   to   any   favorite   method   of   preserving  strawberries. 

PRESERVED   GREEN  TOMATOES. 

Marion    Harland. 

Take  8  pounds  small  green  tomatoes,  pierce  with  a  fork ;  add 
7  pounds  sugar,  the  juice  of  4  lemons,  and  1  ounce  mace  and 
ginger  mixed.  Pleat  all  together  slowly  and  boil  till  the  fruit  is 
clear.  Take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  spread  out  to  cool.  Boil 
the  syrup  till  thick.  Put  the  fruit  in  jars,  and  cover  with  the  hot 
syrup. 

Small,    ripe,   yellow   tomatoes   are   preserved   in   the   same   way. 

PRESERVED  V/ATERMELON,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.    Hugh    Ewing. 

Take  the  green  rind  of  the  melon  and  scrape  the  outside  off. 
]\lake  the  thickness  you  wish.  As  you  scrape,  rinse  in  clear  water 
and  throw  into  a  pan  of  water  with  a  little  alum  in  it.  Put  grape 
leaves  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  then  put  in  the  rind  and  alum 
water,  cover  with  leaves  and  then  with  the  cover.  Cook  over  a 
slow  fire  for  3  or  4  hours.  Make  a  strong  ginger  tea.  Put  the 
rinds  in  and  let  them  be  covered  in  it  3  days.  (If  the  weather 
is  warm,  the  tea  should  be  changed.)  Take  pound  for  pound  of 
sugar  and  rind,  make  a  rich  syrup  with  a  little  lemon  peel  in  it 
and  mace,  put  the  rind  in  and  boil  slowly  until  you  can  put  a 
straw  through.     Put  in  glass  jars,  pour  the  syrup  over  and  seal. 

PRESERVED  WATERMELON,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.   Samuel  Whitmer. 

Cut  enough  of  the  white  inside  rind  of  watermelons  into 
small  pieces  to  make  1  gallon.  Peel,  core  and  cut  small  4  or  5 
quinces.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  a  layer  of 
melon  and  quinces  till  all  are  in  ;  set  in  a  cool  place  for  24  hours  : 
put  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil  slowly  for  several  hours  till 
well   preserved. 

QUINCE  CHEESE. 

Boil  quince  marmalade  until  so  thick  that  it  will  retain  the 
form  of  a  mould  when  cold.  "Leather"  is  maryialade  boiled  still 
longer,  put  in  a  mould  and  cut  in  slices  to  eat  with  the  fingers. 
Any  fruit  may  be  treated  in  this  way,  but  much  less  sugar  must 
b<?   used   than    for   marmalades, 


CANNED   FRUITS   AND    I'liGETABLES.  279 

QUINCE  HONEY. 

Mrs.    Eli   Rush. 

Peel  and  grate  six  large  quinces,  and  2  sour  apples.  Boil  5 
1  ounds  granulated  sugar  in  4  pints  water  until  the  syrup  strings. 
Add  the  fruit  and  boil  until  it  jellies.     Put  in  sealed  jars. 

The  honey  may  be  made  entirely  of  quinces. 

ROSE  SYRUP. 
Mrs.    Rorer. 

Stir  1  pound  rose  leaves  into  a  kettle  of  freshly  boiling  water, 
take  from  the  fire,  cover,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Strain  through 
a  fine  cloth,  add  4  pounds  granulated  susrar,  put  in  a  doul)lc  l)oiler, 
and  boil  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved.     Cool   and  bottle. 

Violet  syrup  is  made  the  same  way,  taking  the  petals  only. 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGARS. 


BANDEN   SAUCE. 

Mrs.    Florrie   Walters. 

Salt  3  gallons  green  tomatoes  and  5  gallons  cabbage  all  choppe  1 
ihic,  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  drain,  and  put  in 
a  kettle  with  4  pounds  brown  sugar,  1  ounce  each  of  celery  seed, 
mustard  seed,  ground  cloves,  white  pepper,  white  ginger  root  and 
turmeric,  and  2  gallons  vinegar.  Boil  1  hour,  put  in  jars,  and 
tie  up  tight  or  seal. 

BEAN  PICKLES. 

Boil  fresh  young  beans  till  tender  in  salted  water;  drain,  and 
when  cold,  fill  jars,  sprinkle  with  cayenne,  or  add  a  pod  or  two, 
a  tablespoon  each  mustard  seed  and  horseradish  chopped,  and 
cover  with  cold  vinegar. 

BEET  PICKLES. 

Mrs.    R.    V.   Dixon. 

Boil,  peel  and  slice  the  beets  or  keep  them  whole.  Put  in  \ 
.gallon  jars,  and  sprinkle  over  tliem  1  teaspoon  salt  and  2  tea- 
spoons whole  mixed  spices  to  earli  jar.  Add  2  pounds  light 
brown  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  vinegar,  boil  together  and  pour 
over  the  beets.     Seal  while  hot. 

.       CABBAGE  PICKLE. 

Mrs.    Jacob    Newman. 

Chop  Up  the  cabbage  fine.  Add  i  cup  salt  and  1  cup  sugar 
to  1  cjuart  vinegar,  with  a  little  water  to  weaken  if  very  strong. 
Just  bring  to  the  boil  and  pour  over  the  cabbage.  Stir  up  well. 
When  cold  it  will  be  ready  to  use.  This  will  keep  in  a  stone  jar 
with  a  saucer  over  it  if  tied  up  well.  Be  sure  the  vinegar  is  over 
the  top  of  the  cabbage. 

CHILI  SAUCE,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Bryan    Leonard. 

Peel  and  chop  1  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  and  2  onions  ;  seed  and 
chop  4  ripe  peppers,  add  2  to  o  tablespoons  salt.  2  of  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  mixed  spices,  and  3  cups  vinegar.     Boil   1  hour. 

CHILI  SAUCE,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    John    Keller,    Jr. 

Scald,  peel  and  chop  fine  50  large  ripe  tomatoes ;  add  15 
onions  chopped;  4  red  peppers  chopped  fine;  10  cups  vinegar;  2 
cups  granulated  sugar ;  1  cup  salt ;  2  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon  ; 
1  teaspoon  each  cloves  and  ginger.  Boil  2  hours,  stirring  enough 
to  prevent  scorching ;  and  seal  while  hot. 

280 


PICKLES,   CATS  ITS   .IXD    riXEGARS.  281 

CHILI  SAUCE,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.  Anna  Abram. 
18  ripe  tomatoes,  4  onions  and  1  green  pepper  all  chopped  fine; 
1  tablespoon  salt,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  and  1  teaspoon  all 
kinds  of  spices.    Boil  3  hours,  bottle  and  seal. 

CHILI  SAUCE,  NO.  4. 

Miss  Addie  T.   Losey. 
18  large  ripe  tomatoes,  8  red  peppers,  1  large  onion;  chop  all 
fine   and   add  4   cups   vinegar,  4  tablespoons   sugar,   2   tablespoons 
salt,    1   tablespoon   each   of   ginger,  cloves,   allspice,   cmnamon   and 
nutmeg.     Boil  1  hour,  bottle  and  seal. 

CHILI  VINEGAR. 

Fill  wide  mouthed  bottles  with  Chili  peppers,  fill  up  with  hot 
vinegar,  cork ;  will  be  ready  for  use  in  2  weeks.  Seal,  if  put  away 
indefinitely.     Fill  up  the   bottle  as  the   vinegar  is  used. 

CHOW  CHOW.  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    M.    E.    Kendall. 

Chop  fine  1  peck  green  tomatoes,  6  green  peppers,  and  5  large 
onions.  Sprinkle  with  1  cup  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Then 
drain  and  add  2  large  heads  of  cabbage  chopped  fine,  mix  together 
with  \  pound  white  mustard  seed,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Boil  in  vinegar  until  tender.     Put  in  glass  jars  and  seal. 

CHOW  CHOW,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.  Cuthbert  Stobbs. 
Take  i  gallon  each  of  pieces  of  cauliflower  and  green  tomatoes, 
small,  round  onions,  little  cucumbers  or  large  ones  cut  in  coarse 
pieces,  and  small  string  beans  or  broken  larger  ones.  Put  in  a 
strong  brine  over  night.  The  next  day  drain  and  scald  with  boil- 
ing water.  When  cooled  off,  drain  again  and  scald  again.  Do 
this  several  times,  if  necessary,  to  heat  the  vegetables  clear  through. 
]\Iix  well  and  put  in  jars.  To  each  gallon  of  vinegar  take  1  pound 
white  sugar,  3  tablespoons  mustard  seed.  1  tablespoon  each  of  cel- 
ery seed,  cloves  and  allspice,  bring  to  the  boil  all  together,  stir  in 
one  ^  pint  bottle  French  mustard,  and  pour  over  the  pickles. 
Cover  and  tie   up   well. 

CHOW  CHOW\  NO.  3. 

Mrs.    John    .\.    Smitli. 

Take  4  quarts  green  tomatoes,  4  medium  heads  of  cabbage,  4 
bunches  of  celerv,  3  onions.  5  red,  3  green  and  4  yellow  peppers, 
^  pound  mustard  seed,  and  J  ounce  celery  seed.  Chop  up  the 
tomatoes,  onions  and  cabbage  and  salt  over  night.  Next  morning 
squeeze  and  drain  ;  add  the  peppers  and  celery  chopped,  put  all  in 
the  kettle,  and  cover  with  vinegar,  adding  LV  pounds  sugar,  a 
tablespoon  each  of  ground  cloves,  cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg, 
\  pound  mustard  seed  and  J  ounce  celery  seed.  Heat  slowly  to 
the  boiling  point,  and  put  in  jars.     This  makes  8  quarts, 


OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 
COLD    CHILI    SAUCE. 

Mrs.  J.   W.   Gibson. 

Take  1  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  scald  and  peel,  chop  up  fine  and 
drain.  Add  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  cup  white  mustard  seed,  1  cup 
ground  horseradish,  1  cup  sugar  and  1  pint  vinegar.  Mix  all 
together  without  cooking  and  seal  up  in  glass  jars. 

COLD  VINEGAR  PICKLES,  NO.  L 

Mrs.    Samuel    Spencer. 

Put  10(1  medium  sized  cucumbers  in  a  stone  jar,  and  mix 
through  tlicm  2  tablespoons  mixed  whole  spices,  and  a  small  bunch 
of  dill.  Dissolve  \  pound  box  Coleman's  mustard  in  a  little  cold 
vinegar  and  stir  it  into  the  balance  of  1  gallon  vinegar  with  1 
cup  salt.  When  dissolved,  pour  over  the  pickles,  cover  and  tie 
up  tight. 

COLD  VINEGAR  PICKLES,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Alex.    Angle. 

Mix  1  gallon  good  cider  vinegar  with  1  cup  ground  mustard, 
2  cups  sugar,  and  1  cup  salt.  Pour  into  a  2  gallon  jar,  or  half 
fill  smaller  jars.  Pick  fresh  cucumbers  of  pickling  size,  wash  and 
wipe  dry,  and  put  them  into  these  jars  a  few  at  a  time  as  they 
are  gathered.  When  the  jars  are  filled,  prepare  more  vinegar, 
etc.,  and   fill  more   jars. 

CORN  SALAD,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    John     Kennedy. 

20  cups  corn,  14  cups  cabbage,  3  cups  sugar.  2  tablespoons  cel- 
ery seed,  1  tablespoon  mustard,  2  quarts  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob.  grind  corn  and  cabbage,  mix  all 
ingredients,   cook  30   minutes,  and   seal. 

CORN  SALAD,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Elizabeth   Baxter. 

Take  20  cups  of  green  corn  freshly  cut  from  the  cob,  14  cups 
of  chopped  cabbage,  3  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  tablespoons  salt, 
2  of  celery  seed  and  2  of  mustard  seed,  2  red  peppers  and  2 
onions  finely  chopped.  Add  2  quarts  of  vinegar  and  boil  30  min- 
utes. After  it  has  cooked  awhile,  add  1  cup  flour  mixed  with  a 
little  of  the  cold  vinegar.     Put  in  jars   and  seal. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Seed  and  grate  1  dozen  large,  ripe  cucumbers.  Make  a  bag 
of  thin  muslin,  put  in  the  cucumbers,  and  hang  them  up  to  drain 
over  night.  Chop  2  or  3  onions,  2  or  3  green  peppers ;  add  1 
tablespoon  salt,  1  quart  vinegar  and  the  cucumbers.  Bottle  and 
seal.     Very  good   fresh ;   does  not  keep  long. 


PICKLES,   CATSUPS   AXD    J'lXEGARS.  283 

CUCUAIBER  PICKLES,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.     Wm.     Hoskins. 

Wash  small  cucumbers  and  let  soak  in  salt  water  over  night. 
Put  in  glass  jars,  sprinkle  in  sugar  and  mixed  spices  to  taste,  and 
pour  over  them  enough  boiling  vinegar  to  cover.     Seal   while  hot. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Rose   Wilson. 

Put  small  cucumbers  in  salt  water  for  24  hours ;  rinse  and 
drain  ;  bring  1  quart  vinegar  to  the  boil  with  1  pint  sugar,  put  in 
the  cucumbers  and  get  them  heated  through:  take  them  out,  pack 
in  jars,  l)oil  the  vinegar  again  with  mixed  spices  to  suit  the  taste, 
and  pour  over  the  cucumbers.     Tie  up  tight  or  seal. 

Slices  of  horseradish  may  be  mixed  with  the  cucumbers. 

FRENCH   PICKLES. 

Mrs.    Gus   Winefordner. 

1  peck  tomatoes,  15  large  onions,  1  dozen  cucumbers.  1  gallon 
vinegar,  |  dozen  red  peppers,  ^  pound  mustard,  h  pound  sugar,  1 
ounce  celery  seed. 

Put  the  washed  vegetables  througli  a  meat  grinder,  sprinkle 
thickly  with  salt,  let  stand  over  night  and  drain  several  hours. 
Put  everything  on  the  stove  together,  let  come  to  a  brisk  boil, 
bottle  and  seal. 

FRENCH  SLAW. 

()  heads  cabbage,  2  bunches  celery,  3  large  onions,  U  dozen  red, 
green  and  yellow  peppers,  3  quarts  vinegar,  a  few  whole  cloves 
and  peppercorns,  a  few  pieces  white  ginger  cut  small,  1  small  cup 
grated  horseradish,  5  cents  worth  white  mustard  seed,  5  cents 
worth   black  mustard   seed,  ^  pound  white  sugar. 

Cut  the  cabbage  on  a  slaw  cutter,  chop  the  onions,  peppers 
and  celery  fine,  salt  over  night  and  squeeze  dry  next  morning. 
Add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  well  together.  Boil  the  vinegar 
and  sugar  and  pour  over  the  mixture;  stir  well  and  pack  in  jars. 
Cover  tight  or  seal. 

GRAPE   CATSUP. 

Mrs.    Lawrence    Walters.  ' 

Pick  ripe  grapes  from  the  stems.  Put  enough  water  over 
them  to  cook  them  soft.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  To  each  gallon 
of  grapes  as  picked,  take  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  vinegar,  and  a  little 
pepper,  salt  and  spices.  Boil  down  until  as  thick  as  tomato  cat- 
sup. Bottle  and  seal.  Nice  with  cold  meats.  Pluni  catsup  is 
made  the  same  way. 

GREEN  TO^L'XTO  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  May  Emerick. 

Chop  fine  8  pounds  grJen  tomatoes :  add  4  pounds  brown  sugar, 
and  boil  down  3  hours :  add  1  quart  cider  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  mace, 
cinnamon  and  cloves  mixed:  and  boil  about  In  minutes.  Let  cool 
and  put  in   sealed  or  tightly  covered  jars  to  keep. 


284  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

HORSERADISH. 

Mrs.   Hugh   Ewing. 

To  a  coffee  cup  of  grated  horseradish,  add  1  tablespoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  white  sugar,  \h  pints  good  vinegar.  Bottle  and  seal, 
[f  prepared  in  the  fall,   will  keep  all  winter. 

MANGOES. 

Soak  small  melons  in  brine  for  2  weeks,  then  soak  in  clear 
water  over  night,  simmer  1  day  in  vinegar,  slit,  scrape  the  seeds 
out  and  fill  with  the  following:  Cut  cabbage  fine  and  salt  over 
night;  squeeze  out  the  water  and  add  1  pint  grated  horseradish, 
I  pint  mustard  seed  (black  and  white"),  3  cloves  of  garlic,  1  pound 
brown  sugar,  \  pint  olive  oil,  cloves,  mace,  ginger  and  allspice. 
Put  1  small  pepper  in  each  melon,  fill  with  the  mixture,  sew  them 
up,  pour  boiling  vinegar  and  a  little  sugar  over  them,  and  tie  up 
tight.     Green  peppers  arc  stuffed  the  same  way. 

MEAT  SAUCE. 

Mrs.   Robert  Williamson. 

6  dozen  large  cucumbers  and  \  peck  onions  peeled  and  sliced  ; 
fi  red  peppers  seeded  and  chopped  ;  }  pound  mustard  seed,  1  ounce 
celery  seed,  1  pound  brown  sugar,  a  little  horseradish  cut  in  small 
bits,  and  1  gallon  vinegar.  Salt  the  vegetables  over  night ;  drain 
in  the  morning.  Mix  the  sugar  with  f  box  of  dry  mustard  and 
both  with  a  little  vinegar  till  smooth.  Put  the  rest  of  the  vinegar 
on  to  boil;  when  hot  add  the  other  ingredients,  let  scald  well  and 
seal. 

MELON    PICKLE. 

Mrs.    Nick    Fuchs. 

Take  'J  small  half  ripe  muskmelons;  cut  in  half  and  scrape  out 
the  seeds  and  all  the  soft  part.  Then  cut  with  the  knife  into 
small  dice.  Take  half  the  quantity  of  chopped  cabbage,  and  6 
onions  chopped  fine;  salt  all  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain, 
and  put  in  a  kettle  with  vinegar  enough  to  cover,  sugar,  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  pepper  to  taste.     Cook  about  1  hour,  bottle  and  seal. 

MINT   VINEGAR. 

¥\\\  a  wide  mouthed  bottle  with  fresh  mint  leaves  ;  cover  with 
good  vinegar;  after  it  has  been  corked  tight  for  several  weeks, 
pour  off  the  vinegar  into  another  bottle  and  keep  well  corked. 
Serve   with   lamb   when   fresh    mint  may   not   be   had. 

MOCK  OLIVES. 

Mrs.     J.     Williamson. 

Take  green  plums  before  they  begin  to  ripen,  pour  over 
them  scalding  hot  vinegar,  with  salt  and  mustard  seed;  let  stand 
all  night,  drain,  boil  and  pour  over  again,  bottle  and  seal, 


PICKLES,    CITS  UPS   AND    VINEGARS.  285 

MUSHROOM    CATSUP. 

Mrs.    II.    C.    Begland. 

Take  2  quarts  fresh  niuslirooms,  cut  off  the  stalks,  and  wipe. 
Break  them  into  a  bowl,  and  sprinkle  over  them  3  ounces  salt 
and  some  mixed  spices.  Soak  for  3  days,  occasionally  stirrmg; 
then  strain  without  squeezing;  measure  the  liquid,  to  each  pmt  of 
liquid  allow  \  ounce  black  peppercorns  and  J  drachm  whole  mace, 
r.oil  until  reduced  about  half.  Strain  into  a  pitcher,  let  stand  J4 
hours,  then  fill  small  bottles,  cork  and  seal. 

MUSTARD    CABBAGE. 

Mrs.    Frank    Spurgeon. 

Sprinkle  \  cup  salt  over  U  gallons  chopped  cabbage  and  half 
a  dozen  large"  onions  chopped  line.  Let  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain,  put  in  a  kettle  with  enough  weak  vinegar  to  cover, 
and  let  simmer  J  hour.  Take  enough  strong  vinegar  to  saturate 
this  quantity,  add  U  pounds  brown  sugar,  heating  it  but  not  boil- 
ing. When  scalding  hot  add  \  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  \ 
pound  of  ground  mustard,  2  ounces  celery  seed,  1  red  pepper 
chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  ground  pepper,  1  ounce  turmeric;  stir 
well  together,  drain  off  the  first  weak  vinegar  and  pour  this  mix- 
ture over  the  pickle. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES,  NO.  L 

Miss  Bessie   Crooks. 

Cut  up  1  quart  large  cucumbers,  1  quart  green  tomatoes  and 
1  large  cauliflower;  add  1  quart  small  onions,  1  quart  small  cucum- 
bers, 1  quart  string  beans  broken  up,  and  6  green  peppers,  seeded 
and  cut  up.  Cover  with  salt  water  for  24  hours,  then  scald  in 
the  same  water,  and  drain.  :\Lake  a  paste  as  follows:  1  tablespoon 
Coleman's  mustard,  1  tablespoon  turmeric,  2  cups  sugar  and  J 
cup  flour,  mixed  slowlv  with  H  pints  vinegar  and  1  pint  bo>ling 
water  to  a  smooth  paste.  Let  boil  until  a  little  thick,  add  the 
pickles  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes.  Pack  away  in  closely  covered 
jars. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    Carrie   Sliuttleworth. 

Mix  ^  pound  each  of  mustard  and  flour  in  a  bowl  with  5  cents 
worth  of' turmeric,  2  cups  sugar  and  enough  vinegar  to  moisten 
them.  Boil  the  remainder  of  1  gallon  vinegar,  and  stir  in  the 
contents  of  the  bowl. 

Prepare  onions,  cucumbers,  cauliflower  and  green  beans,  break- 
ing up  the  cauliflower;  sprinkle  salt  over  them  separately,  and 
fet  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  rinse  and  drain,  pack 
in  jars  well  mixed,  and  pour  over  them  the  mustard  mixture 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil. 


286  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

NASTURTIUM    PICKLES. 

Pick  the  green  seeds  after  the  flowers  have  dried  off.  Put  i  i 
brine  2  days  and  in  fresh  water  1 ;  pack  in  bottles,  and  cover  with 
scalding  vinegar,  seasoned  with  mace  and  white  peppercorns,  and 
a  very  little  sugar.  Cork  and  use  after  4  weeks.  They  make  a 
good  substitute  for  capers. 

ONION  PICKLES. 

Peel  4  quarts  small  white  onions,  lay  them  in  a  brine  of  \\ 
cups  salt  to  2  quarts  boiling  water,  and  let  stand  for  2  days. 
Drain  and  repeat.  Drain  again,  put  this  3rd  brine  on  to  boil  and 
boil  the  onions  in  it  5  minutes.  Drain  and  put  in  bottles  inter- 
spersing with  bits  of  mace,  white  peppercorns  and  slices  of  red 
peppers.  Fill  to  overflowing  with  vinegar  scalded  with  sugar, 
allowing  ^  cup  sugar  to  2  quarts  vinegar.  Cork  and  seal  while 
hot. 

PEPPER   CATSUP. 
Mrs.  T.  A.  Campbell. 

Take  50  pods  of  large  red  peppers  with  the  seeds.  Add  1 
pint  vinegar  and  boil  till  the  pulp  will  mash  through  a  sieve.  Add 
a  second  pint  vinegar,  2  spoons  sugar, -cloves,  mace,  allspice,  onions 
and  salt.  Put  all  in  a  kettle  and  boil  to  the  proper  consistency, 
then  run  through  the  sieve  again,  bottle  and  seal. 

PEPPER  PICKLE. 

Mrs.     Arthur     Van    Meter. 

Take  a  number  of  green  peppers,  half  as  many  tomatoes 
and  a  quarter  as  many  onions.  Grind  peppers  and  tomatoes,  salt 
well  and  let  stand  several  hours.  Drain  over  night  in  a  bag. 
Grind  the  onions,  mix  with  them  some  ground  mace  and  celery 
seed,  cover  all  with  vinegar  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Cut  one  red 
pepper  through  it. 

RED  CABBAGE  PICKLE. 

Mrs.   Wm.    C.   Connell. 

Chop  the  cabbage,  salt  lightly  and  drain  over  night.  In  the 
morning  squeeze  out  the  juice,  and  mix  into  the  pickle  5  cents 
worth  of  cinnamon  bark,  5  cents  worth  of  yellow  mustard  seed, 
some  horseradish  cut  fine,  some  chopped  Chili  peppers  and  some 
black  peppercorns.  Add  sugar  and  cayenne  pepper  to  vinegar  to 
suit  your  taste,  boil  and  skim.  When  cold,  pour  over  the  cabbage, 
and  nut  into  a  crock  with  a  small  saucer  over  the  pickle  to  keep 
the  vinegar  over  it.  Tie  up.  .  It  will  soon  be  ready  for  use. 
Green   cabbage   may   be   treated   the   same  way. 

RED    SAUCE. 

Mrs.    Mar}'    Slatzer. 

Scald  and  peel  30  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  and  chop  S  onions, 
chop  8  red  peppers,  add  5  tablespoons  salt,  10  tablespoons  sugar, 
and   9  cups   vinegar.     Boil   1    hour,   bottle  and   seal. 


PICKLFS,    CATS r PS   AXD    JIXHGARS.  287 

SALTED   CUCUMBERS. 

Mrs.    Rorer. 

Put  good  unbroken  cucumbers  in  a  cask  or  jar  in  alternate 
layers  with  coarse  salt  i  inch  thick;  cover  with  cabbage  or  horse- 
radish leaves,  then  with  a  board  and  a  weight,  and  pour  1  quart 
water  over.  Fresh  layers  of  cucumbers  and  salt  may  be  added, 
picking  the  fruit  in  the  morning  or  evening.  When  nearly  full, 
tuck  a  cloth  tight  over  the  top,  cover  with  the  board  and  weight, 
and  they  will  keep  in  the  brine  1  or  2  years.  Take  out  as  they 
are  wanted  to  use,  skimming  the  brine  and  washing  cloth  and 
board  before  replacing.  To  use  the  pickles,  soak  3  days  in,  fresh 
water,  changing  it  daily,  put  in  a  kettle  with  a  lump  of  alum,  cover 
with  good  vinegar,  and  bring  to  the  boil;  throw  away  this  vinegar 
and  finish   pickling  according  to  any   recipe   liked. 

Beans  of  any  kind,  corn  or  sliced  green  tomatoes  may  be 
salted  down  in  this  wav. 

PICCALILLI. 

Mrs.    Richard    Crowe. 

Take  1  peck  green  tomatoes,  and  4  green  peppers ;  slice  them 
and  put  in  a  dish  in  layers.  Sprinkle  over  them  1  cup  salt,  and 
let  remain  over  night.  In  the  morning  press  dry  through  a  sieve. 
Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with  vinegar,  add  1  cup  sugar,  and 
1  tablespoon  each  kind  of  spice  in  a  muslin  bag;  stew  slowly  about 
1   hour,  or  until   done. 

if   onions  are   liked,   add   eight   sliced. 

PICKLED  PARSLEY. 

Wash  heads  of  curly  parsley  in  salt  water,  drain  and  shake 
dry.  Put  into  jars  of  cold  vinegar  with  1  tablespoon  chopped 
horseradish  to  each  quart.     Fasten  up. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES,  NO.  1. 

Mrs.    Lewis    Newman. 

Slice  cucumbers  as  for  the  table;  salt  lightly  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Drain  and  drop  them  in  boiling  vinegar  long  enough 
to  be  heated  through,  but  not  cooked.  Put  in  jars,  cover  with 
the  vinegar  and  seal.  Are  very  like  fresh  cucumbers  when  opened, 
and  this  method  disposes  of  the  cucumbers  too  large  to  be  used 
for  ordinary  pickling. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.     Wm.     Mitchell. 

Take  1  gallon  medium  sized  cucumbers;  put  them  in  a  jar 
and  cover  wi'th  boilim;  water  in  which  a  handful  of  salt  has  been 
dissolved  ;  the  next  2  mornings  drain  and  repeat :  the  4th  morning 
drain,  cut  into  J  inch  slices  and  fill  glass  jars.  Boil  enough  cider 
vinegar  to  cover  the  cucumbers,  with  a  lumo  of  alum  the  .size 
of  a  walnut,  a  teacup  horseradish  root  cut  fine,  and  1  teaspoon 
each  of  ground  cinnamon,  mustard  and  cloves  (m  a  bag),  lour 
over  the  cucumbers  when  scalding  hot,  cover  and  seal. 


OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEIV. 
SLICED  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

Mrs.    Thomas    Ewing. 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced,  1  dozen  onions  sliced,  sprinkled 
with  salt  and  let  stand  until  the  following  day.  Then  drain  and 
put  in  a  kettle  in  layers  with  1  box  prepared  mustard,  \\  ounces 
black  pepper  (whole),  1  ounce  cloves,  1  ounce  white  mustard 
seed,  and  1  ounce  allspice.  Cover  completely  with  vinegar,  and 
let  boil  about  ^  hour. 

SPICED  APPLES. 

Mrs.     Sarah    Hinzy. 

Boil  2  cups  vinegar,  1  cup  water  and  3  cups  sugar  with  a 
little  whole  allspice  and  cloves  and  cinnamon  bark  to  a  thin  syrup  : 
skim  well ;  add  tart  aoples,  peeled,  halved  and  cored,  or  whole  and 
cored,  and  boil  till  you  can  pierce  easily  with  a  fork.  Put  in  jars 
and  cover  with  the  syrup.  Take  as  many  apples  as  the  amount  of 
syrup  will   probably   cover  well. 

Peaches,  and  other  large  fruit  may  be  spiced  in  the  same  way. 

SPICED  CHERRIES. 

Mrs.     Elmer     Rush. 

Put  1  pint  vinegar  on  to  boil  with  4  pounds  sugar,  1  ounce 
cinnamon  bark,  \  ounce  whole  cloves ;  when  boiling  skim  and  add 
9  pounds  cherries.  Cook  till  the  skin  breaks  ;  take  them  out  and 
place  in  jars;  boil  the  syrup  down  till  thick  and  pour  over  the 
cherries.     Cover  and  tie  up  or  seal. 

SPICED   GRAPES. 

Miss  Fannie  Devol. 

Seed  11  pounds  of  ripe  grapes  as  for  jam.  Place  the  pulp 
and  skins  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  1  quart  of  cider  vinegar,  6 
pounds  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  ground  cinnamon,  and  one 
each  of  cloves  and  allspice.  Boil  \h  hours,  stirring  often  to  pre- 
vent burning. 

SPICED   PRUNES. 

Miss    Ona    Phillips. 

Soak  the  prunes  over  night.  In  the  morning  let  simmer  in 
the  same  water  2  hours,  then  drain.  Boil  the  prune  juice  with  \ 
pound  sugar,  h  cup  vinegar,  \  tablespoon  cloves,  the  same  of 
cinnamon  and  a  pinch  of  ginger  to  1  pound  prunes.  After  10 
minutes,  add   the   prunes,   and    cook    slowly   5   minutes. 

SPICED  QUINCES. 

Mrs.     Dora     Shelhamer. 

Put  2  cups  vinegar,  1  cup  water  and  3  cups  sugar  on  to  boil ; 
add  whole  allspice  and  cloves,  fuid  pieces  of  cinnamon  bark.  Boil 
to  a  thin  syrup,  skim  well,  add  the  quinces  pared,  halved  and 
cored,  boil  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork,  put  in  jars,  boil 
the   syrup   down    thick   and    pour   over    them. 

Peaches   and   other   fruit   may  be   done   the   same   wav. 


PICKLES,   CATSUPS   AND    VINEGARS.  289 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEACHES. 

Mrs.    E.    S.    Martin. 

Pare  7  pounds  peaches,  but  do  not  stone.  Put  4  pounds  sugar 
on  to  boil  with  1  pint  vinegar ;  mix  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  2 
teaspoons  each  ground  allspice  and  cinnamon,  and  ^  teaspoon 
ground  mace,  and  tie  them  up  in  4  little  muslin  bags.  Put  these 
into  the  kettle  and  also  i  ounce  ginger  root.  When  the  syrup  is 
liot,  add  the  peaches,  bring  all  to  the  boiling  point  and  turn  care- 
fully into  a  stone  jar.  Stand  in  a  cool  place  over  night.  For  9 
consecutive  days,  pour  off  the  syrup,  bring  it  to  the  boil,  and 
scald  the  peaches  again.  The  last  time,  boil  the  liquor  dovvrn 
somewhat,  add  the  fruit  to  it,  bring  the  whole  to  a  boil,  and  put 
in  sealed  or  stone  jars.  They  will  keep  for  years,  and  the  syrup 
is  always  good  for  sauces,  yankee  or  hot  cakes. 

Any  large   fruit  may  be   spiced  in  the  same  way. 

SWEET    PICKLED    WATERMELON. 

2  pounds  watermelon  or  muskmelon  rinds,  boiled  in  pure  water 
until  tender.  Drain  well.  Make  a  syrup  of  1  quart  vinegar,  2 
pounds  sugar,  .}  ounce  mace,  1  ounce  cinnamon,  and  some  roots 
of  ginger,  boiled  until  thick,  and  pour  over  the  melons  boiling  hot. 
Drain  off  this  syrup  3  days  in  succession,  boiling  it  and  pouring 
it  over  the  pickle  as  before.     Then  tie  up  in   jars. 

TARRAGOX  VINEG.'VR. 

Put  into  a  jar  1  cup  fresh  tarragon  leaves,  cover  with  good 
cider  vinegar;  cork  and  let  stand  several  weeks,  shaking  occa- 
sionally.    Squeeze  through   a  jelly  bag,  bottle,  cork  and  seal. 

TOMATO  C.XTSUP,  XO.   1. 

Mrs.   V.   r.    Voung. 

\\'ash  the  tomatoes  and  quarter  them  :  boil  about  2  hours  and 
press  through  a  sieve.  Add  \  cup  salt,  1  tablespoon  each  of  ground 
cinnamon,  mustard  and  black  pepper ;  1  teaspoon  each  of  ground 
cloves  and  cayenne  pepper :  1  small  onion  chopped  fine ;  and  3 
pints  cider  vinegar.  Roil  all  together,  and  just  before  bottling  add 
.]    cup  grated   horseradish. 

TOMATO  CATSUP,  NO.  2. 

Mrs.    T.    A.    Reynolds. 

\  bushel  peeled  ripe  tomatoes.  1  quart  vinegar,  1  cup  salt,  3 
boxes  ground  mustard,  \  pound  whole  black  peppers.  V  pound  all- 
spice, \  ounce  cayenne  pepper,  2  ounces  cloves,  6  onions,  2  poimds 
brown  sugar,  1  handful  peachtree  leaves.  20  cloves  garlic.  Cook 
all  together  but  the  cayenne  4  hours.  Strain,  add  the  cayenne  and 
cook  20  minutes.     Bottle  and  seal. 

19 


290  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

TOMATO  CATSUP,  NO.  3. 

Mrs.     Charles     Evans. 

Cut  up  \  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  cook  until  soft,  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Put  back  on  the  stove,  add  2  tablespoons  pepper,  \  table- 
spoon ground  mustard,  \  tablespoon  each  allspice  and  cloves,  1 
tablespoon   salt,  and   1   pint  vinegar.     Cook  till   quite  thick. 

TOMATO   PICKLES. 

Mrs.    H.    B.    Denman. 

Take  1  peck  yellow  tomatoes  or  small  round  red  ones,  prick 
each  with  a  fork,  put  in  a  jar  in  layers  with  salt  between.  Let 
remain  8  days.  Drain  off.  Add  12  large  white  onions  sliced,  2 
ounces  each  of  ground  cloves  and  allspice,  1  ounce  pepper.  1  bottle 
good  mustard.  Put  a  layer  of  spices  and  onions  between  2 
layers  of  tomatoes.  Scald  the  vinegar  and  pour  over  cold.  They 
are  fit   for  use   in   10   days. 

TOMATO  SOY,  NO.   1. 

Mrs.    G.    O.    McDonald. 

4  quarts  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  'and  chopped,  1  cup  red  peppers 
chopped,  1  cup  onions  peeled  and  chopped ;  i  cup  each  sugar  and 
salt;  li  pints  vinegar,  L}  teaspoons  cloves  and  cinnamon,  1  tea- 
spoon ginger,  and  1  grated  nutmeg.  Boil  3  hours,  strain  or  not, 
bottle  and  seal  hot. 

TOMATO  SOY,  NO.  2. 

]Mrs.     Charles     Essex. 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  and  8  large  onions  chopped  fine.  Add  1 
cup  sugar,  1  cup  vinegar,  a  little  salt,  a  little  red  pepper,  1  table- 
spoon mixed  spices  tied  in  a  muslin  bag.  Boil  until  as  thick  as 
you   want  it. 

WALNUT   CATSUP. 

Take  green  walnuts  earl\-  in  August  or  before  the  shell  is 
formed.  Grind  or  pound  them,  and  squeeze  the  juice  through  a 
coarse  cloth.  To  every  gallon  of  juice  add  1  pound  anchovies,  1 
pound  salt,  4  ounces  cayenne  pepper,  2  ounces  ground  black  pepper, 
1  ounce  each  ginger,  cloves  and  mace,  and  1  horseradish  root. 
Boil  till  reduced  to  i  the  quantity.  Strain  and  when  cold,  bott'e. 
Use  in  3   months. 


HOME  MADE  WINES  AND  LIQUORS. 


RI.ACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Mrs.   Hugh   Ewing. 

To  2  quarts  blackberry  juice,  add  \  ounce  cacb  of  ground  nut- 
meg, cinnamon  and  allspice,  and  |  ounce  cloves.  Boil  and  skim 
until  clear.  While  hot,  add  1  pint  French  brand}-,  and  sweeten 
to  taste  with  white  sugar. 

BLACKRERRV    WIXE. 

l\Irs.    Robert    Raniage. 

Pour  1  quart  boiling  water  over  1  gallon  fresh  blackberries, 
and  let  stand  3  or  4  days  till  thcv  foam  up.  Squeeze  well,  and 
add  3  pounds  sugar  to  the  juice.  Let  stand  in  a  covered  jar  until 
it  has  quit  fermenting,  skimming  off  every  little  while.  Whc  i 
ready,  strain  3  or  4  times  tb.rough  a  thin  cloth  without  squeezing, 
bottle  and  cork.  Black  currants  improve  this  wine  in  the  propor- 
tion of   1  quart  to  a  gallon  of  lierrics. 

CHERRY  BOUNCE. 

Mrs.    John    Byrne. 

Take  nine  quarts  picked  and  washed  cherries,  put  in  a  ke^: 
or  jug,  add  9  cups  granulated  sugar  and  a  quart  of  brandy.  Shake 
up  well  and  let  stand  2  or  3  hours  ;  then  add  2  quarts  water ;  let 
this  stand  a  day  and  add  another  quart  of  brandv  and  2  quarts 
water:  and  so  on  until  you  have  used  2  gallons  of  brandy.  Let 
stand  about  a  month,  and  then  put  in  a  few  cloves  and  cinnamoii 
sticks.     It  will  then  be  readv  to  use  in  about   10  davs. 


CHERRY  WINE^ 

1  quart  strained  juice,  2  of  water,  3  pounds  sugar.     Finish  like 
currant  wine, 

CRANBERRY  WINE. 

Marion  Harland. 

Mash  ripe  berries,  put  in  a  stone  jar  and  add  half  the  quan.tit 
of  cold  water.  Stir  well  and  let  stand  2  days.  Strain  throueb  a 
flpunel  jelly  bag.  Mash  a  second  supply  of  berries,  and  cover  wit'^ 
the  liquor.  Treat  it  as  before.  Then  take  1  pound  sugar  to  3 
quarts  liquor,  and  boil  5  minute=  T  of  H  ferment  in  cloth  covered 
jars;  rack  off  and  bottle.     Good  for  skin  disorders. 

291 


292  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

CURRANT  WIN'E. 

"The    Housekeeper's    Friend." 

Mash  ripe  currants,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  put  into  a  tub 
and  let  stand  3  days,  skimming  it  every  day.  To  each  quart  of 
juice  add  2  pounds  sugar  and  enough  water  to  make  a  gallon. 
Fill  a  cask,  leave  out  the  bung  until  fermentation  ceases  which  is 
usually  from  12  to  15  days.  Fill  up  the  cask  daily  with  water. 
When  it  ceases  to  ferment,  rack  off  the  wine  carefully  by  a 
syphon,  cleanse  the  cask  thoroughly  with  boiling  water,  return  the 
wine  to  it,  stop  the  hole  tight  and  let  stand  4  or  5  months. 

ELDERBERRY  WINE. 

]Marioii  Harland. 

Pour  4  quarts  boiling  water  over  8  quarts  elderberries;  let 
stand  24  hours,  stirring  now  and  then.  Squeeze  the  juice  through 
a  jelly  bag.  To  4  quarts  juice,  add  3  pounds  sugar,  1  ounce  pow- 
dered cinnamon,  and  \  ounce  powdered  cloves.  Boil  5  minutes 
and  set  away  to  ferment  in  a  stone  jar  with  a  cloth  thrown  over 
it.  When  it  is  done  fermenting,  rack  it  off  carefully  not  to  dis- 
turb the  lees.     Bottle  and  cork  tight. 

ELDER  BLOSSOM  WINE. 

Miss     Junkermann. 

Clip  the  blossoms  from  the  stems  ;  over  1  quart  pour  1  gallon 
boiling  water.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Strain  and  add  3  pounds 
sugar,  h  cake  yeast,  and  1  sliced  lemon.  Let  stand  a  few  weeks 
till   fermentation  ceases,  then  <skim  and  bottle. 

GINGER  BEER. 

Pour  4  gallons  boiling  water  on  4  pounds  good  brown  sugar, 
or  2  quarts  N.  O.  molasses.  1^  ounces  cream  tartar,  and  \\  ounces 
race  ginger  cracked  a  little.  When  cool  add  1  pint  good  yeast. 
Let  stand  24  hours,  then  skim  and  strain  gently  through  a  cloth, 
bottle  and  cork  tight.  Will  be  fit  for  use  in  2  or  3  days.  Don't 
fill  the  bottles  too  full.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

RIPE  gOOSEBERRY  WINE. 

Mrs.   Jonah   Webb. 

Pick  the  gooseberries  clean  of  leaves  and  sticks,  put  into  a 
jar,  bruise  well  and  let  stand  uncovered  24  hours.  Squeeze  the 
juice  through  a  jelly  bag.  Turn  the  contents  of  the  bag  into  a 
second  jar,  pour  over  it  i  the  quantity  of  boiling  water,  and  stir 
\A'cll  \  hour.  Let  stand  12  hours,  squeeze,  and  add  the  juice  to 
the  first.  Stir  in  well  2\  pounds  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  the 
liquor,  and  let  stand  to  ferment.  When  it  has  done  fermenting, 
draw  off  and  add  f  pint  brandy  to  each  gallon.  Let  stand  to 
settle  4  or  5  weeks,  then  draw  off  carefully  into  a  cask  that  will 
just  hold  it:  keep  in  a  cool  cellar  12  months  or  more,  and  bottle 
on  a  clear  cold  day.     Will  be  fine  in  2  years. 


HOMF.    MADIl    iri\'h:S    ./A'/)    LIQUORS.  293 

GRAPE  WINE. 

Mrs.    M.    M.    Clothier. 

Put  2o  pounds  ripe  fresh  grapes  in  a  jar,  pour  (ner  them  G 
quarts  boiling  water;  wh.en  cool  enough  squeeze  well  with  the 
hands,  cover  the  jar  with  a  cloth,  and  let  stand  3  days,  then 
squeeze  the  juice  through  a  jelly  hag,  and  stir  in  10  pounds  white 
sugar.  After  it  has  stood  for  a  week,  skim,  strain  and  bottle, 
corking  loosely.  When  through  fermenting,  strain  and  bottle 
again,  corking  tight  and  sealing.  Lay  the  bottles  on  their  sides  in 
a  cool  cellar. 

HVDROMEL. 

Mix  2^  pounds  honey  w^ith  1  gallon  warm  water,  until  thor- 
oughly incorporated.  Then  pour  into  a  cask  ;  when  fermented  and 
clear,    draw    off,    bottle    and    cork   tightly. 

ORGEAT. 

Blanch  ^  pound  each  of  sweet  and  bitter  almonds,  and  bruise 
them  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar  with  1  tablespoon  orange  flower 
water,  3  pints  rosewater,  -J  pint  cold  boiled  water ;  when  thor- 
oughly blended,  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve,  add  l^  pints  clari- 
fied sugar,  put  in  a  saucepan,  let  come  to  a  boil,  bottle  and  seal. 
A  tablespoon  to  a  tumbler  of  cold  water  makes  a  delightful  drink. 

PEACH  CORDIAL. 

Mrs.   Hugh  Ewing. 

Wipe  the  fuzz  off  clean.  Make  a  rich  syrup,  boil  3  minutes, 
put  the  peaches  in  and  boil  until  they  are  a  little  soft.  Lay  them 
separately  on  a  platter  to  cool,  then  put  them  in  the  jar  which 
contains  the  spirits  —  peach  brandy  preferred.  Add  a  few  peach 
kernels. 

QUIXCE  CORDIAL. 

Mrs.   Hugh   Ewing. 

Wipe  and  grate  the  quinces.  To  1  gallon  add  1  pint  water 
and  let  stand  12  hours.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  put  on 
to  boil  adding  sugar  and  cloves  to  taste.  Skim  until  clear.  Cool 
and  to  a  quart  of  juice  put  1  pint  spirits,  and  a  few  peach  kernels. 
Cork  and  let  stand  in  the  sun   a  week. 


RASPBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Ewing. 

Mash  the  raspberries  and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Sweeten 
the  juice  and  let  boil  10  or  15  minutes,  skimming.  Let  get  quite 
cold.  Then  add  half  the  quantity  in  spirits  or  brandy.  Cherry 
cordial  is  made  the  same  way. 


294  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Fill  a  crock  with  raspberries,  either  red  or  black,  pour  over 
half  as  much  vinegar,  let  stand  2  days,  and  drain  through  a  jelly 
bag  without  squeezing.  Put  the  same  quantity  in  a  second  crock, 
pour  this  juice  over  and  repeat  process.  Use  fresh  berries  a  third 
time  and  wlien  juice  is  well  drained,  measure  pint  for  pint  in  sugar, 
put  over  the  lire  in  a  preserving  kettle,  bring  to  the  boil  and  then 
let  simmer  wliile  it  is  being  well  skimmed.  Put  in  clean,  hot 
bottles,  cork  tight  and  seal  the  corks. 

Blackberry  and  strawberry  vinegars  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

RHUBARB   WINE. 

Bruise  down  3i-  pounds  rhubarb,  cover  it  with  3  pints  water 
that  has  been  freshly  boiled  and  cooled ;  let  soak  for  a  week, 
stirring  occasionally.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag  and  measure  the 
juice.  To  1  gallon  allow  2  pounds  powdered  sugar.  Bottle  loosely 
when  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  if  it  does  not  ferment  any  more, 
cork  tightly. 


GRUELS  AND  DRINKS  FOR  INVALIDS. 


ALBUMEXIZED    .MILK. 

Pour  h  cup  uiilk  over  the  wliite  of  au  egg,  cover  the  vessel 
and  shake  well. 

APPLE  WATER. 

Roast  2  tart  apples  until  soft;  put  in  a  pitcher,  pour  over  them 
1  pint  cold  water  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  1  hour.  A  good 
drink  in  fevers. 

ARROWROOT   GRUEL. 

Pour  l_  pint  l)oiling  water  over  1  tablespoon  arrowroot;  add  i^ 
pint  sweet  milk.     Add  a  little  white  sugar  to  taste. 

BARLEY  COFFEE. 

Roast  barley  as  coffee  is  roasted.  Add  2  tablespoons  to  1 
quart  boiling  water,  and  boil   ')  minutes.     Add  a  little  sugar. 

BARLEY  WATER. 

Add  2  ounces  of  pearl  barley  to  2  quarts  boiling  water:  boil 
down  to  i  and  strain.  A  little  lemon  juice  and  sugar  will  make 
it  more  palatable. 

BEEF  TEA,  NO.  L 

Mrs.  Thomas  Ewing. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  1  pound  lean  beef,  cover  with  1  quart 
cold  water,  and  when  it  comes  to  the  boil  let  simmer  20  minutes. 
Let  it  get  cold,  skim,  strain,  and  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 

BEEF  TEA,  NO.  2. 

l-'ill  a  bottle  with  lean  beef  cut  in  small  pieces,  cork  loosely 
and  iiut  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  kee])ing  it  upright  by  tying  to 
tlie  handle  of  the  kettle.  Boil  for  2  hours,  then  press  out  the 
liquid  and  skim  it.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  wine  if 
ordered    for  the  patient. 

BOILED  FLOUR. 

Dip  a  linen  cloth  in  cold  water  and  heavily  dredge  with  flour 
to  make  a  crust ;  put  in  1  pound  flour  and  tie  up  tightly  :  boil  till 
it  becomes  a  hard  dry  mass.  Grated  and  prepared  as  arrowroot 
gruel  it  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  it. 

295 


296  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND    NEW. 

BUTTERMILK   PAP. 

Boil  1  quart  fresh  buttermilk;  beat  1  egg,  a  pincli  of  salt  and 
a  heaping  tablespoon  flour  together,  and  pour  into  the  boiling 
milk;  boil  and  stir  hard  for  a  few  minutes;  and  serve  hot  with 
sugar  or  syrup. 

COCOA  CORDIAL. 

"Boston  Cooking  School." 

Mix  1  teaspoon  each  cocoa  and  sugar,  add  enough  hot  water 
to  form  a  paste,  then  the  rest  of  ^  cup ;  boil  1  minute  and  add 
1^  tablespoons  port  wine.     Useful   in   cases  of   chill  or  exhaustion. 

CRACKER  GRUEL. 

Roll  and  sift  a  fresh  cracker;  scald  1  cup  milk,  add  the  cracker 
with  a  pinch  of  salt;   boil  5  minutes. 

FLAXSEED  LEMONADE. 

Take  1  tablespoon  whole  flaxseed,  wash  it,  put  in  a  saucepan 
and  pour  over  it  1  pint  boiling  water;  let  cook  2  hours  just  short 
of  boiling.     Strain,  sweeten  and  add  lemon  juice  to  taste. 

GRAPE  JUICE. 

For  all  fruit  juices,  see  "Canned  Fruit."  Dilute  with  water  to 
taste,  and  add  a  little  lemon  juice. 

HOT    APPLE   TODDY. 

Put  in  a  large  glass  half  a  medium  well-baked  apple,  h  table- 
spoon sugar,  1  wine  glass  old  apple  jack,  dissolve  well  with  a 
little  hot  water,  fill  up  with  hot  water,  mix  well,  grate  a  little  nut- 
meg on  top  and  serve  with  a  spoon. 

KOUMISS. 

.  "lii-iston    Cooking   School." 

Heat  1  quart  milk  till  lukewarm ;  add  1^  tablespoons  sugar 
and  h  of  an  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  warm  water.  Fill 
beer  bottles  within  1|-  inches  of  the  top,  cork  and  invert.  (The 
corks  must  be  firmly  tied  on.)  Let  stand  for  6  hours  at  a  temper- 
ature of  80  F.     Chill,  and  serve  the   following  day. 

LIME  WATER. 

Mrs.   Hugh   Ewing. 

To  a  pint  bottle  of  rainwater  put  1  gill  good  freshly  slacked 
lime.  Let  it  stand  quietly  well  corked,  jiouring  off  gently  when 
wanted.  Is  good  for  digestion.  1  tablespoon  for  a  child  of  two. 
1   gill  or  more   for  an  adult. 


GRUELS   AND   DRINKS   l-'OR    INl'AUDS.  297 

MILK  PORRIDGE. 

Put  1  pint  milk  and  1  jjint  water  over  a  brisk  fire;  mix  2 
tablespoons  wiieat  Hour,  corn  tULal,  or  oatmeal  with  cold  water 
to  form  a  thin  paste.  When  tlie  milk  boils,  stir  in  the  paste  very 
carefully.     Boil  at  least  h,  hour. 

MILK  PUNCH. 

Mix  \  cup  milk  witli  1  tablespoon  liquor,  sugar  and  grated 
nutmeg  to  taste.     Cover  the  vessel  and  shake  well. 

AIILK  TOAST. 

Cut  off  the  crusts  of  stale  bread  and  slice  h  inch  thick.  Toast 
over  the  hre  till  brown  and  not  scorched.  Butter  and  place  in  a 
deep  dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  Bring  some  milk  to  the  boil,  add 
butter  and  salt,  and  pour  over  the  toast.  Serve  immediately.  Do 
not  make  much   at  a   time,   as  soaking  spoils   it. 

MULLED  WINE. 

"Invalid   Cooking." 

Put  h  cup  water  in  a  saucepan  with  a  very  small  piece  of 
cinnamon  and  1  clove.  Boil  for  10  minutes;  then  add  ^  cup  wine 
and  let  the  liquid  just  reach  the  boiling  point.  Meanwhile  beat 
together  very  hard  1  egg  and  1  tablespoon  white  sugar ;  pour  the 
wine  over  it  slowdy,  stirring  constantly.     Serve  hot. 

Beer,   ale   and   porter   are   excellent   mulled   in   the    same    way. 

MUTTON  BROTH. 

Cut  1  pound  lean  mutton  in  small  pieces,  pour  over  it  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  boilin.tf  water  and  let  simmer  \  hour.  After  strain- 
ing, a  little  cold  boiled  rice  may  be  added  or  some  barley  water. 

OATMEAL  BLANX  MANGE. 

Stir  2  heaping  teaspoons  fine  oatmeal  in  a  little  cold  water, 
and  then  stir  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk:  boil  a  few  minutes, 
flavor,  and  turn  into  a  mould;  when  cold,  serve  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

OATMEAL  W.\TER. 

Put  4  tablespoons  fine  oatmeal  in  a  small  jug  and  fdl  with  cold 
water;  shake  well  and  allow  to  settle.  This  is  a  safe  drink  during 
exposure  to  the  sun  in  summer. 

PANADA. 

Take  Bent's  water  crackers,  split,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  salt 
and  nutmeg,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  set  in  a  warm  place, 
covered,  for  an  hour  or  more  until  quite  soft.  Serve  in  the  same 
bowl.     Other  crackers   will   do. 

Bread  panada  is  made  by  tirst  toasting  the  bread.  The  sugar 
and   nutmeg  may   be  omitted. 


298  OLD   COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

RICE   GRUEL. 

Add  1  lieaping  tablespoon  of  ground  rice  to  1  quart  water; 
boil  gently  for  20  minutes.  When  nearly  done  add  1  teaspoon 
ground  cinnamon.  Strain  and  sweeten  slightly.  Wine  is  some- 
times added. 

SAGE  TEA. 

Pour  1  quart  of  boiling  water  over  h  ounce  dried  sage.  Let 
infuse  for  \  hour  and  strain.  /\dd  sugar  and  lemon  juice  if  de- 
sired. 

SAGO  GRUEL. 

Pour  1  pint  water  over  2  tablespoons  sago ;  boil  gently  until 
it  thickens,  stirring  frequently.  Wine,  sugar  and  nutmeg  may  be 
added  as  desired. 

SASSAFRAS  TEA. 

Mrs.   Samuel   VVhitmer. 

Get  red  sassafras  root  in  March ;  wash  and  scrape,  and  peel 
off  the  bark.  Dry  well  Put  a  small  handful  in  a  fresh  teapot, 
pour  6  cups  boiling  water  over  it,  and  steep  for  10  minutes.  Other 
herb  teas   are   made   in   the   same   way. 

STERILIZED  MILK. 

Put  the  fresh  milk  in  bottles,  cork  loosely,  stand  in  a  kettle 
of  cold  water,  the  water  three  fourths  their  height,  bring  the 
water  just  below  the   boiling  point  and   keep   it  there   10   minutes. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

Pour  1  pint  water  over  2  tablespoons  tapioca  ;  boil  gently  for 
an  hour  until  it  looks  like  jelly.  Add  sugar,  wine,  nutmeg,  or 
lemon    juice    according    to   circumstances. 

TPIICKEKED   MILK. 

Mix  a  tablespoon  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt  smootli  with  a 
little  cold  milk.  Pour  over  it  a  ciuart  of  boiling  milk  and  when 
it  is  thoroughly  mixed  put  all  back  into  the  saucepan  and  boil  up 
once,  being  careful  not  to  burn,  and  stirring  all  the  time  to  pre- 
vent   lumping.      Serve    with    slices    of    dry    toast. 

TOAST  WATER. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  and  toast  brown  in  the  oven.  Break 
into  small  pieces;  pour  over  them  an  equal  quantity  of  boiling 
water,  and  let  infuse  1  hour.  Strain  through  a  thin  cloth  and  add 
a  pinch  of  salt.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 


GRUELS   AND   DRINKS   FOR   INVALIDS.  .         299 

WATER  GRUEL. 

Pour  1  c|uart  boiling  water  over  2  tablespoons  oat  or  corn 
meal.  Boil  1")  minutes  and  strain,  adding  salt  and  sugar  also  if 
desired. 

WINE  W^HEY. 

Scald  1  cup  milk,  and  add  1  cup  wine,  sherry  or  port.  Let 
stand  5  minutes,  or  until  tlie  curd  and  whey  shall  separate.  Strain 
and  serve  hot. 


ODDS  AND  ENDS. 


CANDIED  LEMON  PEEL. 

Cut  the  fruit  into  quarters  lengthwise,  take  out  the  pulp  and 
put  the  peels  into  strong  salt  and  water  for  2  days  ;  take  out  and 
soak  1  hour  in  cold  water,  put  into  a  preserving  kettle  with  fresh 
cold  water,  and  boil  till  the  peels  are  tender,  then  put  them  on  a 
sieve  to  drain.  Make  a  syrup  of  1  quart  of  the  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled  and  1  pound  sugar,  and  simmer  the  peels  in  it 
i  hour  or  until  clear;  pour  into  a  bowl  to  stand  till  the  next  day. 
Make  as  much  syrup  as  will  cover  them  in  equal  quantities  of 
sugar  and  water,  boil  this  till  it  threads,  put  in  the  peel,  stir  and 
boil  I-  hour ;  take  out,  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  as  they  dry  put  on 
a  dish  to  finish  drying  in  a  cold  oven  or  other  warm  place.  Store 
in  tin  boxes  for  use  in  mincemeat,  plum  puddings,  etc.  Do  orange 
and  citron  the  same  way. 

CARAMEL. 

Put  white  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  let  it  melt,  and  stir  it  until  it 
becomes  quite  brown  and  begins  to  smoke.  Add  an  equal  quantity 
of  boiling  water,  and  simmer  until  a  thick  syrup.  Bottle,  and  use 
for  coloring  soups,   sauces,  etc. 

CARMINE. 

Carmine  is  made  by  mixing  1  ounce  of  No.  40  carmine  (ob- 
tained from  the  druggist)  with  3  ounces  boiling  water  and  1  ounce 
ammonia.  Bottled  and  corked  it  will  keep  indefinitely.  It  is  used 
for  coloring  ice  creams,  jellies,  candies,  etc.  A  few  drops  are 
sufficient. 

DRIED  BEANS. 

Boil  wax  beans  in  water  until  tender ;  drain,  place  on  a 
stretcher  and  dry  like  corn.  Li^se  the  same  water  to  cook  each 
batch   of   beans   in. 

DRIED  CITRON. 

Pare  and  quarter  and  boil  till  clear  and  tender;  drain,  put  into 
a  ricli  syrup  and  boil  till  sweetened  through.  Take  out,  put  on 
dishes,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  put  in  a  cold  oven  and  dry  slowly, 
turning  till  dry.     Pack  in  tin  boxes  with  sugar  between  the  layers. 

DRIED  CORN. 

Husk  and  silk  the  corn  carefully,  and  use  only  fresh  green 
ears.  Cut  the  grains  from  the  coli  with  a  sharp  knife  not  too 
close,   and    scrape    witli    the   ijack    of    tlie   knife.      Put    in    ):)rcadpans 

300 


ODDS   AND   ENDS.  301 

in  a  hut  oven,  and  cook  stirring  at  times  till  the  milk  dries  up. 
Xow  scatter  the  corn  on  a  stretcher.  Put  outdoors  in  the  sun, 
and  dry.  Put  in  thin  muslin  bags,  and  tie  these  up  in  heavy  paper 
bags.     Hang  up  in  the  attic. 

To  make  a  stretcher,  tack  thin  muslin  to  a  frame  stretching 
it  as  tightly  as  possible. 

DRIED  CURRANTS. 

Put  the  currants  at  th.e  bottom  of  the  preserving  kettle  with 
half  the  quantity  in  sujrar  over  them ;  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved 
lot  boil  a  minute  or  two  then  skim  from  the  syrup  and  spread  on 
plates  to  dry  in  a  cool  oven.  Boil  the  syrup  till  it  is  thick,  then 
I'our  it  over  the  currants  to  dry  with  them.  Pack  in  jars,  and 
cover  tight. 

Berries  and  cherries  may  be  dried  in  the  same  way,  using  less 
sugar. 

DRIED  PARSLEY. 

Select  fresh  crisp  sprays  of  parsley,  wash  well,  ])lungc  in  boil- 
ing .salted  water,  boil  1  minute,  take  out,  drain  and  dry  before 
tlic  lire  as  quickly  as  possible;  put  in  a  tin  box  and  store  in  a 
dry  place.  Before  using,  soak  in  warm  water  for  a  few  minutes 
to  freshen  it.     Other  herbs  may  be  dried  in  the  same  way. 

DRIED  PEACHES. 

Pare,  cut  in  halves  and  stone  the  peaches.  Lay  on  earthen 
plates,  cut  side  up.  Sprinkle  with  sugar ;  set  in  a  moderate  oven 
with  the  door  open.  Turn  2  or  3  times  a  day.  When  dry  but 
neither  hard  nor  scorched,  pack  in  jars  and  cover  closely.  When 
coriked,  put  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  warm  water,  and  let  stand 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  several  hours;  then  sweeten  to  taste. 
and   let  boil*  only  a   few   minutes. 

Plums  and  apples  are  dried  in  the  same  way,  but  plums  are 
not   iiared. 

DRIED  PEARS. 

Mrs.     Hugh     Ewing. 

Peel  a  peck  of  pears.  Put  in  a  kettle  with  3  pints  water  and 
3  pounds  white  sugar.  Cook  till  transparent,  then  take  out,  drain 
and  lay  out  to  dry.  Rub  in  sugar  every  day  or  two.  Tomatoes 
may  be  done  the  same  way. 

DRIED  PUMPKIN. 

^[rs.     Wm.     Hoskins. 

Stew  the  pumpkin  as  for  pies  and  mash  fine.  To  everv  quart, 
add  2  tablespoons  sugar,  and  1  of  molasses.  Stew  on  back  of 
stove  till  quite  dry.  Grease  shallow  pans,  put  in  an  inch  thick> 
and  dry  in  the  oven.  Put  in  paper  bags  to  keep  clean.  When 
wanted,   soak  a  quantity   over  night. 


302  OLD    COUNTRY  RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

FRENCH  liONEY. 

Mrs.  Wm.    C.   Connell. 

Dissolve  a  small  lump  of  alum  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  in 
li  pints  of  water,  with  5  pounds  white  sugar.  Boil  3  minutes. 
When  cool,  add  I   ounce  rosewater. 

ORANGE  EXTRACT. 

Cut  off  the  3'ellow  outside  peel  of  5  oranges,  shave  it  thin, 
put  in  1  pint  good  alcohol,  and  cork  tightly.  Let  stand  for  a 
fortnight. 

Lemon    extract   is    made    in    the    same    way. 

PEACH  EXTRACT. 

Blanch  the  pits  of  peaches,  pound  to  a  paste,  and  add  twice 
the   quantity  of  brandy.     It  will   take  the   place  of   bitter  almonds. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

Mrs.    Richard  Johnsdii. 

Peel  1  dozen  good  potatoes,  cover  with  water  and  boil  till 
done.  Mash  in  the  pot.  Cover  2  handfuls  hops  with  water  and 
boil  till  the  strength  is  extracted  —  about  i  hour;  strain  into  the 
potatoes ;  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  ginger  and 
salt,  and  2  cakes  yeast  foam.  Let  rise  al)out  24  hours,  till  bottles 
not  too  full  and  cork  loosely.  It  will  keep  several  weeks.  }  cup 
answers   for  a  setting  of  bread. 

SOUP  POWDER. 

Dry  1  ounce  each  of  lemon  peel,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram  and 
parsley  in  a  warm  oven;  pound  and  sift,  and  add  1  drachm  pow- 
dered celery  seed;  bottle  and  cork.  1  teaspoon  may  be  added  to 
1  quart  of  almost  any  soup. 

TO  BROWN  COFFEE. 

Butter  a  baking  dish  thoroughly,  put  in  good  green  coffee,  i 
Mocha  and- 5  Java.  Put  in  a  moderate  oVen  to  roast  until  brown, 
from  20  to  25  minutes.  Stir  well  occasionally.  Put  in  a  stone 
jar   and   keep   well   covered. 

TO  BROWN  FLOUR. 

Spread  on  an  iron  pan  and  set  in  a  hot  oven,  stirring  continu- 
ally after  it  begins  to  color.  Brown  evenly  ail  through.  Keep 
in  a  glass  jar  in  a  dry  place.     It  is  added  to  Iiash  and  gravies. 

TO  CLARIFY  BUTTER. 

Put  \  pound  good  butter  in  a  double  boiler ;  when  thoroughly 
melted,  skim,  strain  through  a  fine  cloth,  and  keep  in  a  moderate 
temperature  until  wanted. 


ODDS   AND   ENDS.  -{03 

TO  CLARII'V  WINE. 

Beat  the  white  of  1  e^rg  with'  a  little  wine,  and  stir  into  the 
whole.     This  will  do   for  10  gallons  wine. 

TO  CORN  BEEF. 

Have  your  beef  cut  up  in  suitable  pieces  for  cooking.  Then 
pack  them  loosely  in  a  tight  barrel,  placing  a  weight  on  top. 
Cover  them  with  the  following  brine :  4  gallons  water,  8  pounds 
salt,  2  ounces  saltpetre,  1  quart  molasses  ;  put  in  a  kettle  and  bring- 
to  a  boil ;  skim  thoroughly,  let  cool  and  pour  over  the  beef.  Let 
remain  in  the  brine  until  wanted  for  use.  If  the  brine  should 
mould,  pour  it  off,  bring  it  to  a  boil  again,  skim  and  pour  over 
the   beef  quite   hot. 

TO  CURE  BEEF  HAMS. 

"Sirs.   Robert    Sneddon. 

]\Iake  a  brine  that  will  float  an  egg,  add  1  tablespoon  each  of 
ground  cloves  and  allspice,  1  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper,  and  \ 
pound  black  pepper.  Put  in  2  beef  hams,  properly  dressed  by  the 
butcher,  and  with  the  bones  taken  out.  Let  stay  in  the  brine  ■? 
weeks,  changing  their  positions  in  the  cask  occasionally.  Let 
drain  several  hours;  then  sprinkle  lightly  with  brown  sugar  and 
cayenne  pepper,  if  more  is  needed.  Roll  in  a  tight  roll  and  wind 
with  coarse  string,  hanging  up  to  let  dry.  It  may  be  cut  from 
in  a  few  days.  Slice  and  cook  as  3'ou  would  beefsteak.  A  slice 
of  sidcmeat  cured  in  the  same  way  is  good  to  broil  with  the 
steak,  as  the  beef  seems  dry  to  unaccustomed  palates. 

TO   KEEP   GRAPES. 

Take  full  clusters,  removing  every  bruised  one.  Dip  the  end 
of  the  stems  in  sealing  wax,  wrap  each  bunch  in  tissue  paper  and 
pack  in  boxes  in  layers,  with  paper  between.  Close  the  box ; 
keep  in  a  cool  dry  room. 

TO  KEEP  LEMON   PEEL. 

Put  all  spare  lemon  peel  in  wide  mouthed  bottles,  pour  brandy 
over  it  and  keep  corked.  This  is  always  ready  for  use  to  flavor 
sauces,  puddings,  etc.  If  the  fresh  peel  is  chopped  fine,  and  a  little 
salt  sprinkled  over  it  in  a  dry  bottle,  it  is  ready  to  use  for  stufi"- 
ings,  croquettes,  etc.  -Dried  in  the  oven  it  is  good  to  keep  for 
flavoring  stewed  fruit. 

Orange  peel  may  be  treated  the  same  way. 

TO   KEEP  PEPPERS. 

Pack  in  a  jar  with  or  without  see-b'nq-  and  pour  scalding 
vinegar  over  them  ;  cover  and  tie  titrht.  When  used,  freshen  in 
cold  water.  Or  pull  up  the  plant  before  fro=t  bitten,  and  hang 
by  the  roots  in  a  cool  place  where  it  will  not  freeze.     Or  pick  the 


304  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

peppers  before  freezing,  string  and  hang  up.  Chili  peppers  should 
be  packed  in  wide  mouthed  bottles,  and  hot  vinegar  poured  over 
them. 

TO  KEEP  TOMATOES. 

I.  Take  ripe  tomatoes,- wipe  dry  without  breaking  the  skin. 
Put  into  a  jar  with  cold  vinegar,  adding  a  thin  muslin  bag  of 
cloves  and  whole  peppers.     Seal  and  keep  in  a  dry  place. 

II.  Before  frosts,  dig  up  tomato  plants  that  are  covered  with 
green  fruit,  leaving  plenty  of  dirt  around  the  roots.  Slip  over 
the  roots  a  heavy  sack,  and  put  the  plants  in  the  cellar.  It  may 
be  necessary  at  times  to  wet  the  roots  a  little.  Pick  off  the  fruit 
from  time  to  time  and  let  ripen  in  a  sunny  window  as  wanted. 

TOMATO  FIGS. 

Mrs.  Eliza  Marsh. 

Scald  and  peel  round  ripe  tomatoes.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  with 
equal  weight  of  sugar.  Let  stand  2  days.  Pour  off  syrup,  boil 
and  skim  until  clear.  Pour  over  and  let  stand  2  days  as  before. 
Boil  and  skim  again.  After  third  skimming,  let  them  stand  in  the 
syrup  until  good  drying  weather.  Then  place  on  large  earthen 
dishes  and  let  stand  in  the  sun  to  dry.  It  will  take  about  a  week. 
After  which  pack  down  in  small  wooden  boxes  with  fine  white 
sugar  between  the  layers.     Will  keep   for  years. 

Apples  boiled  in  the  remaining  syrup  are  good. 

TO  PACK  EGGS. 

Mrs.    Calvin    Essex. 

Dip  in  boiling  water,  then  pack  in  salt,  small  end  down,  not 
touching.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

TO   SALT  ALMONDS. 

Shell  the  almonds,  scald  them  and  remove  the  skins.  Melt  a 
small  lump  of  butter  in  a  pan  in  the  oven.  Dry  the  almonds  and 
put  them  in  the  butter  stirring  and  turning  as  they  brown.  When 
a  good  golden  brown,  sprinkle  considerable  salt  over  them,  and 
let  stand  until  cold.    Tlicn  rub  off  the  excess  of  salt. 

VAXILLA  ESSENCE. 

Slice  1  pound  best  stick  vanilla,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  with 
3  ounces  lump  sugar.  Then  put  in  a  quart  jar,  fill  up  with  the 
best  alcohol,  screw  lid  on  tight,  shake  well,  and  it  can  be  used 
in  a  day.     It   improves  very  much   in  strength  with   age. 

HOW  TO  COOK  HUSBANDS. 

"Greenfield    Hill    Cook   Book." 

A  good  many  husbands  are  entirely  spoiled  by  mismanage- 
ment in  cooking,  and  so  are  not  tender  and  good.  Some  women 
keep  them  too  constantly  in  hot  water;  others  freeze  them;  others 


ODDS   AND   EKDS.  305 

put  tliein  in  a  stew;  otlicrs  roast  tlinii  ;  and  others  keep  them  con- 
stantly in  a  pickle.  It  cannot  he  supposed  that  any  husband  will 
he  good  and  tender  managed  in  this  way,  hut  tiiey  are  really 
delicious    when    properly   treated. 

In  selecting  your  husband  you  should  not  be  guided  by  the 
silvery  appearance  as  in  buying  mackerel,  nor  by  the  golden  tint, 
as  if  you  wanted  salmon.  Be  sure  and  select  him  yourself,  as 
ta.stcs  difi'cr.  Do  not  go  to  <<he  market  for  him  as  those  Ijrought 
to  the  door  are  always  best.  It  is  far  better  to  have  none  than 
not  to  learn  how  to  cook  them  properly.  It  does  not  make  so 
much  dift'erence  what  you  cook  him  in  as  how  you  cook  him. 
Sec  that  the  linen  in  which  he  is  wrapped  is  white  and  nicely 
mended,  with  the  required  number  of  strings  and  buttons.  Don't 
keep  him  in  the  kettle  by  force,  as  he  will  stay  there  himself  if 
proper  care  is  taken.  If  he  splutter  or  hzz,  do  not  be  anxious ; 
some   husbands   do  this. 

Add  a  little  sugar  in  the  form  of  what  confectioners  call 
"kisses",  but  no  vinegar  or  pepper  on  any  account.  A  little  spice 
improves  them,  but  it  must  be  used  with  judgment.  Do  not  try 
him  with  anything  sharp  to  see  if  he  is  becoming  tender.  Stir 
hiiu  gently  the  wliile  lest  he  stay  too  long  in  the  kettle  and  be- 
come flat  and  tasteless.  If  thus  treated,  you  will  find  him  very 
digestible,  agreeing  nicely  with  you  :  and  he  will  keep  as  long  as 
vou   want. 


USEFUL  HINTS  IN  HOUSEKEEPING. 


BORAX. 


1  part  of  liot  water  dissolves  (J  parts  of  borax.  It  makes  a 
good  wash  for  the  hair  or  slvin,  where  the  water  is  hard.  Is 
good  to  wash  combs  and  brushes,  paint,  blankets,  etc.  Laces  may 
he  washed  by  leaving  in  water  with  a  little  bora.x  in  several  hours, 
and   then   rinsing   without   ruljbing. 

BURNS. 

Mix  equal  parts  of  wiiitc  of  egg  and  olive  oil,  spread  over 
the  burn,  and  bandage  with  a  piece  of  old  linen ;  or  dust  thickly 
with  baking  soda,  bandage,  and  keep  the  bandage  wet.  This  will 
prevent  blistering. 

COLD   PROCESS  SOAP. 

Mrs.   G.   O.   Beery. 

Dissolve  1  ten  cent  can  of  Babbitt's  potash  and  J  pound  pow- 
dered borax  in  3  pints  warm  soft  water.  Melt  5  pounds  of  clean 
rendered  grease.  When  the  solution  is  cool,  and  before  the  grease 
becomes  hot,  pour  the  grease  slowly  into  the  potash  and  borax, 
stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture  is  like  molasses,  when  it  can 
he  poured  into  the  vessel  to  harden.  Just  before  it  hardens,  add 
I-  pint  gasoline. 

CUCUMBER  LOTION. 

Eresh  cucumbers  mashed  to  a  pulp  are  good  to  spread  over 
a  sunburned  face.  Cucumber  peelings  boiled  and  cooled  make  a 
good  wash  for  the  complexion. 

ECZEMA   CURE. 

Mix  3  sulphur  with  ^  cream  tartar,  and  enough  N.  O.  molasses 
to  make  it  palatable.  Take  1  teaspoon  every  morning  for  9  morn- 
ings ;  wait  a  week  and  take  a  second  course. 

HAIR   TONIC. 

Witch  hazel  rubbed  well  into  the  roots  of  the  hair  at  niglit 
is  an  excellent  tonic.  So  is  sage  tea  or  equal  parts  of  quinine, 
whiskey  and  bay  rum.  Also  loosening  the  hair  and  rubbing  tlie 
scalp  thoroughly  with  the   hand  brings   excellent  results. 

^  pint  sage  tea  mixed  with  i  pint  bay  ruin,  ^  ounce  tincture 
cantharides  and  20  grains  bisulphide  of  quinine  is  a  good  toniir 
also. 

30fi 


USEFUL   HINTS   IN   HOUSEKEEPING.  307 

LINIMENT. 

Mrs.     George    Howe. 

Break  a  fresh  egg  into  a  l^ottle;  add  the  same  quantity  of  tur- 
pentine, vinegar  and  anuuonia.  Shake  well.  Fine  for  rheuma- 
tism, sprains  and  bruises. 

LOTION  FOR  Till-:  ll.XNDS. 

Mrs.   Wm.    C.    Council. 

Put  .]  ounce  of  gum  tragacanth  into  2  pints  of  soft  water. 
Let  stand  for  2  days:  then  beat  up  well,  strain,  and  add  h  ounce 
alum  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  4  ounces  glycerine,  6  of  alcohol, 
and  1  of  boracic  acid.  Add  1  pint  soft  water  and  a  little  perfume 
if  desired.     Excellent   for  chapped  hands. 

OATMEAL   SOAP. 

Mrs.    H.    C.    Begland. 

Shave  1  pound  Castile  soap,  put  on  the  stove  in  a  tin  pail, 
barely  cover  with  water,  and  simmer  gently  till  dissolved.  Stir 
in  4  ounces  each  sweet  almond  oil  and  powdered  borax,  1  ounce 
tincture  benzoin,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Beat  it  well,  take  from 
the  stove  and  as  it  cools  put  by  spoonfuls  into  fine  oatmeal ; 
shape  into  cakes  with  the  hands,  and  dry.     It  improves  with  age. 

SALVE. 

Mrs.   George  Howe. 

i  pound  mutton  suet,  I  pint  sweet  oil,  5  cents  worth  of  pow- 
dered rosin. 

Melt  the  suet  and  pour  over  the  rosin  ;  add  the  oil,  and  mix 
them  thoroughly.  Ready  for  use  when  cold.  Good  for  cuts, 
liurns.  bruises   and   boils. 


TO  KILL  BEDBUGS. 

]\Iix  5  cents  worth  corrosive  sublimate  with  1  pint  wood 
alcohol ;  squirt  with  an  oil  can  into  tlie  cracks  of  furniture  every 
few   days  till   rid  of   the  pests. 

TO  REMOVE  CLARET   STAINS. 

Mrs.     J.     G.     Blaine. 

If  claret  wine  is  split  on  a  cloth,  cover  at  once  with  salt,  and 
wash   in  cold  water  as   soon  as  convenient. 

TO  REMOVE  GRASS  STAINS. 
Wash   in  alcohol  the  stained  goods. 


308  OLD    COUNTRY   RECIPES   AND   NEW. 

TO  REMOVE  HOT  WATER   MARKS. 

Cover  the  marks  made  by  hot  water  jugs,  etc.,  on  polished 
tables  with  a  paste  of  salad  oil  and  salt,  leave  it  there  for  an 
hour,  and  rub  well  with  a  dry  cloth. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  STAINS. 

Saturate  the  spot  with  lemon"  juice  and  cover  with  salt;  let 
stand  in  the  sun  several  hours:  wash  in  warm  water  and  then  in 
Sai)olio. 

Iron    rust   is   removed    in   the   same  way. 

TO    REMOVE   OLD   TEA    AND    COFEEE   S^TAINS. 

Wet  the  spots  with  cold  water,  cover  with  glycerine,  and  let 
stand  2  or  8  hours.  Wash  with  cold  water  and  hard  soap.  Re- 
peat  if    necessary. 

TO  SET  DYES. 

Dissolve  I  teaspoon  sugar  of  lead  in  a  pail  of  water,  and  soak 
uncertain   calicoes   in   it   for   1   hour  before   washing. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


4  gills 1  P'"t. 

2  pints 1  quart. 

4  quarts  1  gallon. 

16  ounces  1  pound. 

^  teacup 1  gin. 

2  teacups 1  pint. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  |  ^  pound 

2^  cups  powdered  sugar  ) 

1  heaping  tablespoon  sugar  (  _    ,   ,,L„T(,p 

1   heaping  tablespoon  butter  \ 

1  cup  butter *■  pound. 

4  cups  flour j  I  pounrl. 

1   heaping  quart  flour  \ 

5  round  tablespoons  dry  material 1  cup. 

Ui  tablespoons  liquid  1  cup. 


USEFUL   HINTS   IN   HOUSEKEEPING.  309 

COMMON  POISONS  AND  THEIR  ANTIDOTES. 


"  EMERQE^CY  NOTES." 


ACIDS. 


Hydrochloric  or  muriatic,  nitric,  oxalic  and  sulphuric. 

Antidotes:  1  teaspoon  haking  soda  in  a  cup  water;  as  much 
lime  water  as  the  patient  will  swallow;  1  teaspoon  magnesia,  whit- 
ing, chalk,  tooth  powder  or  lime  scraped  from  the  wall,  stirred  into 
a  cup  of  water;    1  tablespoon  strong  soapsuds. 

Carbolic  acid. 

Antidote:  There  is  no  chemical  antidote.  Give  oil  freely, 
olive,   linseed   or   castor. 

ALK.ALIES. 

Lye,  soft  soap,  various  washing  fluids  and  powders,  strong 
ammonia  or  hartshorn. 

Antidotes:  1  tablespoon  vinegar  in  1  cup  water:  the  juice  of 
2  lemons  or  oranges  in  an  equal  amount  of  water;  olive,  linseed 
or  castor  oil. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Arsenic.     Some  rat  and  fly  poisons. 

Antidote :  A  fresh  preparation  of  iron  ;  send  to  druggist  for 
antidote. 

Iodine.     The  common  tincture. 

Antidote:  Boiled  starch  —  laundry  or  cornstarch,  arrowroot, 
boiled  or  baked  potatoes. 

Lead.     Sugar  of  lead ;  paint  containing  white  lead. 

Antidote:     A  tablespoon  Epsom  salts  in  a  tumbler  water. 

Mercury.     Corrosive  sublimate  is  the  commonest  form. 

Antidote:     Raw  white  of  egg. 

Opium.  Morphine,  laudanum,  paregoric,  many  cough  medi- 
cines and  soothing  syrups. 

Antidotes:  There  is  no  chemical  antidote,  but  strong  coffee, 
pain  and  motion  counteract  its  effects.  Give  an  emetic,  and  then 
large  quantities  of  strong,  black  coffee ;  keep  the  patient  walking 
up  and  down ;  switch  him ;  throw  cold  water  on  his  face  and 
chest;  if  the  breathing  becomes  very  slow,  perform  artificial  res- 
piration. 

Phosphorus.      Matches,   and    some    rat    pastes. 

Antidote:  Common  turpentine  which  has  been  exposed  to  the 
air  for  some  time  mixed  with  magnesia.  -Send  to  druggist.  Do 
not  give  oil. 

Silver.     Nitrate  of  silver  or  lunar  caustic. 

Antidote:     1   teaspoon  common  salt  in  a  cup  water. 


If  you  seek 


O 


Candy 
Value 


the  produd  of  mod- 
ern facftones  which 
have  passed  the 
experimental  ^age, 
producing  goods  of 
Even  Quality, 
Always  Reliable, 
Pure,  Rich  and 
Wholesome.  If  you 
seek  to  increase 
your  Confedtion 
Trade,  just  try 


[ICIOUS 

Candy  of  Them   All 

Sorority  Chocolates,  "Taylor-Made."  The 
candy  hit  of  the  year.  Named  for  the  collegre 
girl — because  she  knorvs  and  luves  the  best. 

ororitg  (Chocolates 


Crispy  grlobes  of  purest  choc- 
olates, covering  centers  which 
are  creamy-rich  and  satis- 
fying.   You  don't  know 
just  how  good  choc- 
olates ran  be  till  you 
have  eaten  the  So- 
rority kind.  S>..!<1 
in      dainty 
creftsman- 
ship  box- 
es-60c 
the 
lb. 


The  Carmell  Candy  Co. 


INCORPORATED 


^    ,        ,  HIGH  GRADE  AND  ,  ,    ,   ^,. 

Distributers  of    pQpy^^f^    CANDY     ^°'""'^"''^'"° 


321 


Printing  (En. 


CUm^ftt  afiSa      Phunra     I»pU  iiatn  fi9B 


Sunk  anb 

Jub  Prtntna 

C  f  natrr  Work 
jFinr  (Eatalngup 
(Xiih  Innk  Mark 
ICaut  iilnoka  mxh 


55-59  iEaat 
iiatn  g>t. 
(Unlumbus 


Magees  Chlorinated 
Lithia  Spring  Water 


The  Acknowledged 
Best  Natural  Spring 
Water  Ever  Offered 
to  the  Public 


^  X)aluable  for  all  disorders 
of  the  digestive  organs,  and 
kidneys;  for  dropsy  and  most 
skin  diseases;  clears  the  sys- 
tem of  all  uric  acid,  hence 
a  specific  for  rheumatism 
and  gout. 


A.    W.  MA  GEE,   "Proprietor 

CLARKSVILLE.  MECKLENBURG  CO.,  VIRGINIA 

322 


Jewelry  of  Recognized  Quality 

Our  assortment  of  Gold  and  Silver  Pieces,  Watches, 
Diamonds,  etc.,  is  as  superior  in  variety  as  it  is  in  char- 
acter. Every  item,  regardless  of  its  price,  is  enhanced 
by  the  42  year  "Harrington"  Guaranty. 

THE  HARRINGTON  GO. 

Established  1866  83  NORTH  HIGH  ST.,  COLUMBUS,  OHIO 


When  you  have  tried  everything  else— remedies,  doctors,  sanitariums, 
baths,  etc.,   and  get  to  the  point  where  you  want  your 

Rheumatism  Cured 

NOT  MERELY  RELIEVED,  BUT  ABSOLUTELY  AND   POSITIVELY  CURED- the  uric 
acid  driven  out  of  your  system,  and  that,  WITHOUT  INJURING  YOUR  STOMACH 

BUY    OF    YOUR    DRUGGIST 

Golden  Rule  Rheumatic  Compound 

It  is  no  longer  necessary  to  go  to  a  Sanitarium  at  an  enormous  expense. 
SAVE  YOUR  MONEY  and  spend  50  cents  or  $1.00  as  above. 

If  you  are  skeptical,  write  us  for  copies  of  autograph  letters  of  promi- 
nent physicians  confirming  our  statements,  and  testimonials  of  people  who 
have  been  CURED,   and  cured  permanently. 

The  Golden  Rule  Rheumatic  Remedy  Co. 

COLUMBUS,  OHIO 


$ 


KIBLER    SAVES         N^M      M       M      MM      M  NO  MORE 

YOU  $.S.OO  Jjm      I       ■      ■■      I  NO  LESS 


9.99 


Suits,   Overcoats  ^^"^F  ^^"^m     ^^"^m  The  kind  you  have 

and  Raincoats  ^^    ^      ^^        ^^  been  paying  $15  for 

KIBLER'S  $9.99  STORE 

COLUMBUS  STORE:    22  AND  24  WEST  SPRING  STREET 

Stores    at  Columbus,   Dayton,  Cleveland,    Indianapolis,    Kokomo  and    Louisville 

323 


The  Best  Recipe 


for  the  careful  buyer  is  to  trade  where 
he  can  save  the  MOST  money  and  get 
BEST  quality  of  goods.  Try  us  and 
we  will  convince  you  beyond  any 
question  of  a  doubt. 


The  Chris  HoU 
Hardware  Co. 

LOGAN,  OHIO 

We  carry  a  larger  stock  of  goods 
than  any  other  retail  hardware 
store  in  the  Hocking  valley. 


Buggies                                                Seeds  of  All  Kinds 

Gas  Appliances 

Wagons                                                Mechanics'  Tools 

Pumps  of  All  Kinds 

Building  Materials                              Roofing  of  All  Kinds 

Harness 

Fanning  Implements                           Wire  Fencing 

Chums 

Paints,  Oils  and                                  Stoves  and  Ranges 

Washing  Machines 

Varnishes                                             Gas  Fixtures 

Agents  for  the  PETERS  BUGGY  CO. 

Reliable  line  of 

Buggies,  Surreys,   Phaetons  and  R 

unabouts. 

Give  us  a  call  —  we  have  the  goods  ar 

id  the  prices. 

THE  CHRIS  HOLL  HARDWARE  GO. 

324 

CALVIN    ESSEX    New  Straitsville,  O. 
High  Grade  Furniture  at  Reasonable  Prices 


ORDERS    PROMPTLY    FILLED 


For  Pure  Drugs,  Patent  Medicines,  Toilet  Articles,  Fine  Cigars  and  Stationery 

"^to  Taylor's  Drug  Store 

PRESCRIPTIONS   A   SPECIALTY 
We  ulso  have  a  full  line  of  Paints  and  Oils  Main  Street,  NEW  STRAITSVILLE,  O. 

You  always  get  the  best  when  you  buy 


Winchester  Flour 


MANUFACTURED    BY 

THE  WINCHESTER  MILLING  GO. 

CANAL   WINCHESTER,  O. 


Stoves  of  All  Kinds 

We   are    the   only    EXCLUSIVE    STOVE    and    KITCHEN    WARE    STORE    in   Columbus 


Gas  Ranges  and  Heaters 
Coal  Ranges  and  Heaters 
Wood  Ranges  and  Heaters 
Gasoline  and  Oil  Stoves 
Fireless    Cookers    from 

$1.50  up 
The   Fine    Odorless    Refri- 
gerators 

HOTEL  AND    FAMILY    COOKING    UTENSILS    in   «reat   variety.     We   will   satisfy  you 

THE  F.  W.  BISHOP  CO. 

180  and  182  S.  High  St.  COLUMBUS,  OHIO 

325 


PRESIUKNX  SECY  AND   MGR. 


THE  PEOPLE'S 

ELECTRIC  LiaUT  i^^ISTD 

F'OA\^EFl  CO. 

OF 
STR  A  ITS  V  I  ELE 


RALPH   WILSON 

THE  CLARK  ST. 

GROCER 


FLOUR,  FEED,  GRAIN  AND  NOTIONS 

THE  BEST  GOODS  AT  LOWEST   PRICES 


NEW    STRAITSVILLE,    OHIO 

326 


C..A.YOUNG'S  CIGAR  STORE 

I!.00Ia5I:LLCR,  NCWSDCALCR  7\ND  STATIONER 
LAUNDRY  AND  DRV  CL.CAMINQ  AQCNCICS  ^  ^ 


Miss  M.  N ,  PARSONS     =eT 

MILLINERY  L^moHio 


KCYNC5  BP05. 

LOOAN,  OHIO 

"me  Leading  Brands  of  Plour 

Logai^  Pcitenr       Logan  Perfection 
and  Logon  Purity 


MHKCS  THE  WHITEST,  LIGHTEST  and 
SWEETEST    BRCHD    AND   PASTRY 


Order  ci  Sock  t'roni  Your  Grocer 


W.  T.  SPRANKEL  q  Pr^T^C 

Lumber,  Roofiiv),  L(itl\,  Skitc,  IJn^e,  Ceii^ent,  Pulp  Plaster 
The  r-amous  "Devoc"  P(iii\t     phon.s  T.l^Tot\o     New  Straitsvillc,  Ohio 

H.  C.  ShurtlewortIVs 


PRE5CRIPTIOM5 

riLLIzD  aivl   RURt: 

DRUGS  ar 

THE  PRCSCRIPriOM   DRUGGIST.      Ice  Cream,  Soda  Water  and  Candy  equal  to 
that  in  the  large  cities.     Lowney's,  Taylor  made  Candies,  etc.     MCW  StrditM'illC,  Oi^K) 

327 


BARGAINS 

Oliver  Typewriters,  $50  Each 

$5  Down  and  $5  Per  Month.      Shipped  to  Any  Address  on  Trial 

An    Extraordinary    Half -Price    Offer 


The  regular  standard  Model  No.  3.  Complete  with  metal  case,  baseboard,  tools, 
etc. —  not  shop  worn  or  damaged  machmes,  but  each  and  every  one  guaranteed  to 
be  absolutely  perfect  —  as  perfect  as  any  ever  sold. 

No  salesman  will  call  on  you.  We  are  compelled  to  save  such  expenses  to  enable 
us  to  sell  these  machmes  at  half  price.  The  burden  of  proof  rests  with  the  type- 
writer and  you  are  to  be  the  sole  judge. 

If  you  find  the  slightest  thing  to  criticize  —  if  you  think  you  can  buy  a  better  type- 
writer at  any  price  —  if  for  any  reason  you  do  not  wish  to  keep  the  machine,  send  it 
back  at  our  expense. 

This  is  the  greatest  typewriter  value  ever  offered.  If  you  intend  to  buy  a  machine 
any  time  in  the  future  it  will  pay  you  to  secure  one  of  these  NOW. 

If  you  are  renting  a  typewriter,  why  not  send  it  back  and  replace  it  with  one  of  these  splendid  ma- 
chines? You  can  pay  us  $2.00  or  $3.00  more  a  month  than  you  are  now  paying  and  in  a  few 
months  own  a  $  1 00  standard  typewriter  —  meantime  you  have  a  perfect  machine  to  operate  instead  of 
a  second-hand  one. 

Better  write  us  now.     You  lake  no  chance  on  this  proposition  ;  if  the  typewriter  is  just  as  we  say  — 
you  have  a  bargain  —  if  it  is  not,  you  send  it  back  at  our  expense. 
Don't  wait  until  they're  all  gone  —  give  us  your  name,  address,  and  references  to-day. 
This  extraordinary  offer  of  OLIVER  Typewriters  is  made  to  readers  of   "Old   Country   Recipes  and 
New"  as  a  special  offer.     It  will  give  everyone  a  chance  to  own  a  first-class  $100  s'andard  typewriter 
under  the  best  terms  ever  offered. 

This  special  offer  places  the  OLIVER  within  easy  reach  of  every  home,  business  or  professional  man. 
Any  one  can  now  own  a  standard  typewriter.  By  utilizing  spare  moments  for  practice  students  fit 
themselves  for  more  important  positions.  The  OLIVER  is  so  simple  any  one  can  learn  to  operate  it. 
Schoolboys  and  schoolgirls  can  now  buy  a  real  $100  typewriter  on  very  easy  terms. 
The  OLIVER  is  the  most  highly  perfected  typewriter  on  the  market  and  the  most  substantial.  It  will 
stand  rough  treatment  —  the  kind  that  makes  junk  of  many  machines.  Everything  the  best.  The 
OLIVER  Typewriter  turns  out  more  work  of  better  quality  and  greater  variety  than  any  other  writing 
machine.  Simplicity,  strength,  ease  of  operation  and  visibility  are  the  corner  stones  of  its  towering 
supremacy  in  everything  that  a  typewriter  can  be  used  for. 


Two-color  ribbon    attachment   $1.50   extra 

Can  You  Afford  to  Let  This 
Wonderful  Offer  Pass? 

A  really  extraordinary  opportunity  to  prepare 
for  the  big  prosperity  wave.  High-class  cor- 
respondence on  first-class  machine  is  the  begin- 
ning of  business  success.    Send  coupon  to-day. 

The  Typewriter  Sales  Co. 

29  Dearborn  St. ,  Chicago,  III. 


TvpEWHiTKR  SALE."i  Co.,  23  Dearbofu  .St.,  Chic.igo,  111. 

(leutlenien:  I  accept  vourspecial  oflTer  of  a  .Model  No.  8 
OLIVER  Standard  Typewriter  for  850.  Send  me  one  of 
these  typewriters  f.  o.  b.  Cbicago.  It  is  understood  that 
I  may  iry  the  machine'  for  fiye  days.  If  entirely  salisfae- 
tory,  I  agree  to  remit  |5  witbin  five  da.vs  of  receipt,  and 
pay  the  balance  in  nine  monthly  Instalments  of  $.1  each. 
If  the  typewriter  does  not  come  up  to  my  expectation  in 
every  "way,  I  reserve  the  right  to  return  it  immediately 
without  incurring  any  obligation  on  my  part.  Title  of 
the  machine  to  renialii  in  your  name  uatil  the  machine 
is  fully  paid  for. 

Name 


Addr 


Town .  State 

References  refiuired. 


328 


ESTABLISHED  1870 


We  Make  a  Specialty  of 

Fine  Teas 

Pure  Cider  Vinegar 

Canned  Goods 

and  Fine  Flour 


A.  J.  EVANS 


Dealer  in 


Groceries  and  Provisions 

Both  Phones  813 

236,  238  and  240  E.  Long  St.  COLUMBUS,  OHIO 

TERMS   CASH 


As  An  Attractive  Display 


v*5'       i 


you    cannot    find   anything    to   equal    our 

China  and 
Crockery  Line 

judging  from  the  satisfaction  it  gives  and 

the  money  saved  in  buying  here. 

^  These   are   not  cheap    goods,   but    the 

iVV       prices  are  very  low  considering  the  quality. 

1^       Have  you  seen  our  week-end  specialties  ? 


May  we  have  the  pleasure  to  show  you 


Established   1840 


J.  M.  &  W.  WESTWATER 


141    and   143  North  High  Street 


COLUMBUS,  OHIO 


The  Vance- Winans  Co. 

Exclusive  and  Correct  Styles  in 

Readv-to-Wear  Outer  Garnments 
for  Women  and  Misses 


75  North  High  Street 


COLUMBUS,  OHIO 


329 


'^he  Most  Complete  Stock  of  Post  Cards  in  Logan 


CASE'S  DRUG  and 
JEWELRY  STORE 


66  EAST  MAIN  STREET 
LOGAN.  O.       Soth  "Phones 


^    !         Recommend 


Peerless  Sure   Corn  Killer I  Oc 

Peerless   Toothache  Drops I  Oc 

Pearl  of  Beauty  for  the  Ladies        .      .  25c 

Pinard's   Veloet  Pearl  for  the  Ladies  .      .  25c 

'Denlifoam  for   Teeth 25c 

Velvo  Lotion  for  Hands I  Oc 


All  Fully  Guaranteed  under  Ture  Food  and  Drug  Law 


9 

2 

ra" 

On 

o 
n 
.^ 

Q 
fa 


'^he  Most  Complete  Stock  of  Post  Cards  in  Logan 


C  J    WILLIAMS  ■  BELL  'PHONE  MAIN  2444 

C.  W.  TAYLOR  CITIZENS  PHONE  2865 


WILLIAMS  &  TAYLOR 


OPTICIANS 


No.  72  NORTH  HIGH  STREET 

COLUMBUS,  OHIO 

330 


JOHN  EATO.-\,  Prfsidenl  BRANCH  STORES 

LOriS  C.  SANDS,  Vice  Prcsl.  AND  WAREHOUSES 
LOVrS  BROH'N,  Treasurer  THROUGHOUT 

(;R ANT  HUBLEV,  Secretary  THE   OIL  COUNTRY 


Supply  (Enmpang 

iHain  (iflSrpa 


EVERYTHING  YOU  WANT  FROM  GREENHOUSE  OR  GARDEN 
Floral   Work  a  Specialty.      Headquarters  for  Carnations. 


THOMAS  MONTELL   '' 


awnee 

Ohio 


J.  A.  DEVOL     JU  Blacksmkhing 

XT  O  •  -11         r^^     •  W  I  I  ot  ail  sorts  promptly 

New  Straitsville,  Ohio        jj   .    l^A^lAir 


Or.  (£.  A.  ilJaninii.  yirsihrnl  3f.  t.  Svraiiirr.  (Casliirr 

ail|^  Mnvtxn  Sank  (C0. 

(Ea^iital  ^turk  ^25.Dnn.nn 
331 


THE  GRIFFIN 
DRILLING  CO. 


CONTRACTORS  FOR 


OIL,  GAS 


AND 


ARTESIAN 
WELLS 


OFFICE:  12  NORTH  HIGH  ST. 

COLUMBUS,  OHIO 


332 


Falcon  Beekeepers^  Supplies 


Write  for  illustrated  catalog 

W.  T.  FALCONER  MFG.  COMPANY 

JAMESTOWN,  NEW  YORK 


Eat  Furnas 
Ice  Cream 


It's  made  of  the  best  sweet  cream,  sugar,  flavor,  etc. , 
and  we  know  how  to  mix  these  ingredients  to  make 
the  delicious  product  for  whicJj  cue  are  famous. 
Ask  for  it  at  your  druggist  or  confectioner. 

The  Furnas  Ice  Cream  Company 
581  East  Long  Street,  Columbus,  Ohio 


J.W.  Jones 


GENERAL 


Hardware 


f 


Paints,  Oils  and  Lumber, 

Wall    Paper,    Tinware, 

Jewelry  and  Notions, 

Roofing,   Sash,    Doors, 

Glass   and    Gas    Fixtures 

Plaster,  Lime  and  Cement 


NEW  STRAITSVILLE,  OHIO 


333 


Maizes  Delicious 
Puddings. 

Use  Part  Royal  for 
Bread,  Rolls,  etc. 

Can  be  eaten  and 
relished  h})   the 
most  delicate. 


THE  PAPER  STORE 

is  the  proper  place  to  buy  Birthday,  Holiday,  and  Patriotic  Post  Cards, 
Paper  Drinking  Cups,  Napkins,  Dishes,  Plates,  and  Table  Cloths  for  Lunch- 
eons and  Picnics,  Playing  Cards,  Games,  Tally  Cards,  Writing  Stationery 
of  all  kinds;  Inks  and  Pencils,  Typewriter  Ribbons  and  Papers,  Pocket  and 
Bill  Books,  Card  Cases,  Bible  and  Prayer  Books,  Engraved  Wedding  Invi- 
tations, Cards,   Book  Binding  and  Printing. 

NITSGHKE  BROTHERS 

31  to  37  EAST  GAY  ST.,  COR.  PEARL  COLUMBUS,  OHIO 


JOSEPH  HATEM  UNIS  HATEM 

JOS.  HATEM  &  BRO. 

Bmhts  in  IFruilH.  QlDufrrtiiinrrij.  (Cigars  m\h  ©nbarrna 

SOFT  DRINKS  AND  ICE  CREAM  NEW  STRAITSVILLE,  OHIO 

.  H.  D.  BURGESS 

PRESSING  PROMPTLY  DONE  NEW  STRAITSVILLE,  OHIO 

The  MODERT^TsfORE 

DRY    GOODS,    CLOTHING,    SHOES,    HATS,   CARPETS, 

CURTAINS,   Ladies',  Gents'  and  Children's  FURNISHINGS 

SAM   PASTOR,  Proprietor  NEW  STRAITSVILLE,  OHIO 


Gihson  Price  &  Gibson,  Restaurant  ^^' 

BOARDING  BY  THE  WEEK,  DAY  OR  MEAL. 

Cigars,  Tobaccos -and  Soft  Drinks.         Short  Order  Meals  and  Lunches  All   Hours. 

Cor.   Main  and  Clark  Sts.  Phone  36  New  Straitsville,  Ohio 


Lynch's  Lyric  Theatre 

MOVING    PICTURES 
AND  VAUDEVILLE 

Booking  Acts  from  the  Bert  Marshall  Vaudeville  Circuit  of  Cleveland,  O. 

335 


Coirts  &  Botki 


OIL,  GAS  and 

ARTESIAN 


-WELL 
DRILLER, 

Send  all  inquiries  to 

LANCASTER,  OHIO 


and  they  will  have  prompt  attention 

336 


BLETZ ACKER 
FURNITURE  CO. 

Furniture,  Carpets,  Wood 

Mantels,  Tile  Floors,  Baby  Carts, 

Grates  and  Undertal^ing 


BELL  PHONE  18 
CITZ.  PHONE  18 


Cor.  Broad  and  Chestnut  Sts.  Lancaster,  Ohh 


to 


ANTILL'S 
ICE  CREAM 


LANCASTER,  OHIO 


ON  SALE  AT 
SHUTTLEWORTH'S 


337 


How  to  Make  $12,0001 

a  year  clear  profit  on  a  small  egg  farm 

The  CORNING  EGG-BOOK 

tells  how  these  men  did  it. 

$6.41  Per  Hen  Per  Year 


Here  are 
some  of 
the  things 


I    The  troubles  of  great  hotels  in  getting  reliable  eggs. 
The  prices  paid  for  Corning  eggs  throughout  the  year. 
How  to  get  the  mo^  eggs  when  moS  people  get  none. 
When  to  hatch  chicks  that  are  to  lay  winter  eggs. 


that  the       <^    How  to  grow  juicy  broilers  in  nine  weeks. 


Corning 

Egg-book 

tells : 


How  to  mix  the  feed  that  makes  the  mo^  eggs. 
How  to  save  97  per  cent  of  the  young  chicks. 
Why  they  send  hens  to  rooS  with  full  crops. 
How  to  make  hens  attend  Sridtly  to  business. 


The  Corning  Egg-book  is   sold  in  combination  with 

The  Farm  Journal 

to  increase  its  subscription  li^  to  one  million  for  next  year.  It  is  the 
ftandard  monthly  farm  and  home  paper  of  the  country ;  clean,  bright' 
pradtical;  it  is  for  the  gardener,  ^ockman,  trucker,  farmer,  villager* 
suburbanite,  the  women  folks,  boys  and  girls. 

ORDER    FROM  :US 

THE  SOCIAL  AND  ATHLETIC  CLUB 

NEW  STRAITSVILLE,  OHIO 

We  will  send  postpaid  the  Corning  Egg-book   ^  jr\ 
and  the  Farm  Journal  for  two  years,  both  for  ^Jv/C^ 

Cash,  money  order  or  check. 


338 


The  Clark  St. 
Harness  Shop 

New  Straitsville,  Ohio 


JOHN  JENKINS,  of  Shawnee,  Ohio.  Owner 
MACK  FISK,   Manager 

Good  Stock  of  HARNESS 

CON6TANTLY  ON  HAND 

Repair  Work  of  all  kinds  PnTN^X''"- 

Best  of  Workmanship  Guaranteed.   Prices  Most  Reasonable. 


H.    P.    RISCHERT      New  Straitsville,Oh.o 

Seasonable  Goods  Oi  1_     _       J     YT  _         /"^ ..!_„ 

Always  on  Hand       otaplc  ancl  F  diicy  Liroceries 


1876 
1910 


JOSEPH  L.  WEST 

General  Merchandise  and  Groceries 


New 

Straitsville, 

Ohio 


SHUTTLEWORTH  &  SONS 

Dealers  in  GENERAL  HARDWARE,  NOTIONS,  ETC. 
Qas  Fixtures  and  Supplies,  'Uinware  and  QraniteWare  New  Straitsville,  Ohio 


OYSTERS  IN 
SEASON 


CIGARS  AND 
TOBACCO 


F.  G.  MILLER 

Old  Reliable  Ice  Cream,  Soda  Water,  Confectionery  vuTe. 


New  Straits- 
Ohio 


1904 


N^m 


1910 


•nrtal  an& 
Kt\}kt\c  mnb 


(EtttHint  nurr  15 


ffiymitantnm.  J*'liumrr  Ii5atlj8. 

\Sai\l.  ilUIliariiH  anb 

Uiuuiliuit.  (liamcs.  fflusir. 

fHauasiurB  aiti»  NruiBpaprra 

ICaiitcii  50  rents 

prr  IBmith 


339 


RUMFORD 


THE    WHOLESOME 


Baking  Powder 

A  Strictly  Pure  Phosphate  Powder 

Made  of  the  genuine  Prof.  Horsford's  phosphate, 
which  adds  to  the  bread  [the  lacking  phosphate 
element  so  essential  to  health,  found  in  wheat  and 
other  grains.     Does  not  contain  alum. 


840 


AUG  s6  \m 


One  copy  del.  to  Cat.  Biv. 


^a5» 


92     "^^^ 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  488  639  2  * 


