.<^BW  ^^?fc^    Jfc  *Sfc          4pfcB 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


of  the 


Club  of  g>an  jilatea 


iflateo,  California 
1909 


COPYRIGHT  1909 

BY 
WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 


PRICE  50  CENTS     POSTAGE  EXTRA 


"/  never  ate  a  better  cake  than  that;  you  must  give 
me  the  recipe  for  it,"  and  a  hundred  similar  compli- 
mentary references  to  the  "good  things"  served  at  the 
"Teas"  of  The  Woman's  Club  of  San  Mateo,  inspired 
the  publication  of  these  "Recipes"  in  book  form. 

The  compilers  are  under  so  many  obligations  to  the 
Club  members  who  have  contributed  these  "tried  and 
true"  formulas  of  favorite  dishes,  and  to  the  friends  of 
the  Club  who  have  so  liberally  assisted  by  appropriate 
advertising  matter,  that  this  expression  of  high  appre- 
ciation is  impelled  as  a  "Thank  you  very  much"  to  one 
and  all. 

"Recipes  of  the  Woman's  Club  of  San  Mateo"  is  the 
work  of  the  Home  Economic  Section — Department  of 
Economics — and  is  commended  to  all  lovers  of  good 
things  to  eat  and  drink  as  a  labor  of  love. 


RECIPES  CONTRIBUTED  BY 
MEMBERS  OF  THE 

WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 


COMPILED  BY 

MAY  ROBINSON  THOMAS 
DIETITIAN 


Recipes  of  the 
Woman's  Club  of  San  Mateo 


BROWN  SOUP  STOCK 

6  Ibs.  shin  beef  1  sprig  marjoram 

3  qts.  cold  water  2  sprigs  parsley 

J  teaspoon  peppercorns  Turnip,  ^  cup  cut  in  dice 

6  cloves  Onion,  ^  cup  cut  in  dice 

2  bay  leaf  Celery,  ^  cup  cut  in  dice 

3  sprigs  thyme        1  tablespoon  salt  Carrot  ^  cup  cut  in  dice 

Wipe  the  beef  and  cut  the  lean  meat  in  inch  cubes.  Brown  one-third 
of  the  meat  in  hot  frying  pan  in  marrow  from  a  marrow-bone;  put  remaining 
two-thirds  with  bone  and  fat  in  soup  kettle;  add  water  and  let  stand  for 
thirty  minutes.  Place  on  back  of  range,  add  browned  meat  and  heat  grad- 
ually to  boiling  point.  As  scum  rises  it  should  be  removed.  Cover  and  cook 
slowly  six  hours,  keeping  below  the  boiling  point  during  cooking.  Add 
vegetables  and  seasonings;  cook  one  and  one-half  hours;  strain  and  cool  as 
quickly  as  possible. 

WHITE  SOUP  STOCK 

4  Ibs.  knuckle  veal  £  teaspoon  pepper  corn 
2  qts.  cold  water  1  onion 

1  tablespoon  salt  2  stalks  celery 

1  blade  mace 

Wipe  meat,  remove  from  bone  and  cut  in  small  pieces;  put  meat,  bone, 
water  and  seasonings  in  kettle,  heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point;  skim 
frequently;  simmer  four  or  five  hours  and  strain.  If  scum  has  been  care- 
fully removed  and  soup  is  strained  through  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth, 
stock  will  be  quite  clear.  The  water  in  which  a  fowl  or  chicken  is  cooked 
makes  White  Stock. 

BAKED  BEAN  SOUP 

1  cup  cold  baked  beans  ^  cup    stewed    and    strained 

1  pt.  water  tomato 

1  slice  of  onion  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  stalk  of  celery  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  Chili  sauce  Salt  and  pepper 

Put  beans,  onions,  water  and  celery  in  saucepan.  Bring  to  boiling  point 
and  simmer  thirty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve;  add  tomatoes  and  Chili 


RECIPES  OF  THE 


sauce;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bind  with  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together. 


STRING  BEAN  SOUP 

4  cups  white  stock  ^  cup  flour 

2  qts.  string  beans  J  cup  butter 

2  cups  scalded  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  beans  until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover,  drain  and  rub 
through  sieve;  add  pulp  to  the  white  stock,  then  milk;  bind  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Garnish  with  Fritter  Beans. 

FRITTER  BEANS 

1  egg  J  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  milk  A  cup  flour 

Beat  egg  until  light;  add  milk,  salt  and  flour,  put  through  colander  or 
pastry  tube  into  deep  hot  fat  and  fry  until  brown;  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook-Book 

CLAM  BROTH 

12  small  hard-shell  clams  £  cup  scalded  milk 

^  pt.  clam  juice  or  hot  water  1  walnut  of  butter 

A  pinch  of  cayenne 

Drain  the  clams  and  chop  fine;  add  the  clam  juice  with  cayenne  and 
butter;  simmer  thirty  minutes;  add  scalded  milk;  strain  and  serve.  Ex- 
cellent for  invalids. 

Mrt.  J.  C. 
LOBSTER  BISQUE 

2  Ibs.  lobster  J  cup  butter 

2  cups  cold  water  J  cup  flour 

4  cups  milk  l£  teaspoons  salt 

A  few  grains  of  cayenne 

Remove  meat  from  lobster  shell ;  add  cold  water  to  body  bones  and  tough 
end  of  claws  cut  in  pieces;  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  cook  twenty 
minutes;  drain  reserve  liquor  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together;  scald  milk  with  tail  meat  of  lobster  finely  chopped;  strain  and  add 
to  liquor.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  then  add  tender  claw  meat  cut  in 
dice  and  body  meat.  When  coral  is  found  in  the  lobster  wash,  wipe,  force 
through  fine  strainer,  put  in  mortar  with  butter,  work  until  well  blended, 
then  add  flour  and  stir  into  soup.  If  a  richer  soup  is  desired  White  Stock 
may  be  used  in  place  of  water. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook-Book 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 


SPLIT  PEA  SOUP 

1  cup  split  peas  \  cup  ham  scraps  and  bone 
4  cups  water                                            3  cloves 

Salt  and  paprika 

Wash  the  peas  and  soak  them  over  night  in  the  water.  In  the  morning 
add  the  ham  scraps  and  bone,  salt  and  paprika  to  taste  and  cloves.  Add 
more  water  during  the  cooking  if  necessary.  Boil  three  to  four  hours  and 
strain. 

M.  R.  T. 
POTATO  SOUP 

2  large  potatoes  Parsley 

1  small  onion  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tomato  2  tablespoons  butter 

A  little  celery  \  cup  rich  cream 

1  large  green  pepper  (not  the  seeds)  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Chop  the  potatoes,  onion,  tomato,  celery,  parsley  and  green  pepper  all 
fine;  add  the  salt  and  enough  water  for  soup;  cook  well  and  mash  through 
a  coarse  strainer;  thicken  with  the  flour  and  butter  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Just  before  serving  add  half  a  cup  of  rich  cream  and  let  the  whole  come  to 
the  scalding  point;  have  a  few  discs  of  bread  browned  in  butter  for  each  plate. 

Mrs.  W.  A. 
TOMATO  SOUP 

2  cups  peeled  tomatoes  1  stalk  of  celery,  or 

1  cup  water  ^  teaspoon  celery  seed 

1  teaspoon  sugar  ^  of  a  small  onion 

\  a  bay  leaf  \  teaspoon  salt 

4  cloves  (whole  cloves)  1  tablespoon  butter 

\  teaspoon  paprika  \  tablespoon  flour 

Minced  parsley 

Boil  the  ingredients,  except  butter  and  flour,  fifteen  minutes;  add  the  butter 
and  flour  rubbed  to  a  paste;  boil  five  minutes  longer;  strain  and  serve  with 
bread  sticks. 

M .  R.  T. 


RECIPES  OF  THE 


TURKISH  SOUP 

5  cups  brown  soup  stock  10  pepper-corns 

J  cup  rice  J  teaspoon  celery  salt 

1^  cups  stewed  and  strained  2  tablespoons  butter 

tomatoes  lj  tablespoons  flour 

2  slices  onion  A  bit  of  bayleaf 

Cook  rice  in  brown  stock  until  soft;  cook  bayleaf,  onion,  pepper-corn 
and  celery  salt  with  tomatoes  thirty  minutes;  combine  mixtures;  rub  through 
a  sieve  and  bind  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 


VEAL  AND  SAGO  SOUP 

2^  Ibs.  lean  veal  2  cups  scalded  milk 

3  qts.  cold  water  Yolks  of  four  eggs 

\  Ib.  pearl  sago  Salt  and  pepper 

Order  meat  from  market  very  finely  chopped.  Pick  over  and  remove 
particles  of  fat.  Cover  meat  with  water;  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point 
and  simmer  two  hours,  skimming  occasionally.  Strain  and  re-heat.  Soak 
sago  one-half  hour  in  sufficient  water  to  cover;  stir  into  hot  stock;  boil  thirty 
minutes;  add  milk,  then  pour  mixture  slowly  on  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook-Book 


VEGETABLE  SOUP 

1  qt.  brown  stock  (unseasoned)  1  green  pepper 

J  cup  carrots  \  clove  of  garlic 

\  cup  turnips  1  cup  tomatoes 

\  cup  celery  \  a  bayleaf 

\  cup  cabbage  or  Brussels  \  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

sprouts  parsley 

\  of  an  onion  2  tablespoons  pearl  barley 

Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  and  pare  vegetables,  then  chop  coarsely  in  the  meat  chopper  and  add 
to  boiling  stock;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  boil  for  one  hour;  barley 
should  be  carefully  washed  and  put  into  cold  stock  before  it  is  put  on  to  cook. 

M.  R.  T. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 


ONION  CREAM  SOUP 

Fry  six  onions  in  butter  with  Chili  to  taste,  until  of  a  light  brown,  using 
a  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  a  quart  of  boiling  water 
and  one  teaspoon  of  sugar;  cook  slowly  one  hour;  strain  through  a  sieve; 
add  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth;  (the  eggs  can  be  dispensed  with  for  ordinary 
use).  Add  one  tablespoon  cornstarch  mixed  with  water  just  before  taking 
off  the  fire.  Put  small  cup  of  cream  in  a  heated  soup-tureen,  then  pour 
the  soup  over  it;  serve  with  dice  of  toasted  bread. 


CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP 

White  soup  stock  for  the  cream  of  asparagus  is  prepared  as  follows :  three 
pounds  shin  of  the  veal,  two  and  one-half  quarts  of  cold  water,  six  whole 
cloves,  six  black  peppers,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  one  inch  blade  of  mace, 
one  sprig  of  parsley,  one  stalk  of  white  celery,  one  carrot,  one  onion  and  one 
turnip  chopped.  Soak  the  meat  one  and  one-half  hours  before  heating 
then  add  vegetables,  spices  and  herbs;  simmer  two  hours  and  strain.  When 
cold  remove  the  fat. 

Take  one  cup  of  boiled  rice  and  three  cups  of  cooked  asparagus  tops  and 
put  through  a  sieve;  add  one  pint  of  cream,  one-half  teaspoon  white  pepper 
and  one  teaspoon  salt;  cook  in  double  boiler,  add  the  white  stock  and  one- 
half  cup  of  whole  cooked  asparagus  tops.  Serve  with  cheese  crackers. 


MARROW  BALLS  FOR  SOUP 

Put  marrow  on  ice — ten  cents  worth — twenty  minutes  before  using; 
cream  marrow  until  soft  and  smooth;  stir  in  one  egg;  add  enough  cracker 
meal  to  stick  it  together;  not  too  stiff.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg. 
Shape  into  small  balls.  Try  one,  and  if  it  holds  together  put  in  soup  fifteen 
minutes  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Shuman 


CHEESE  CRACKERS 

Take  as  many  crackers  (Saltines)  as  desired,  spread  very  thinly  with  butter, 
grate  eastern  cream  cheese  on  top  of  butter  and  sprinkle  on  this  a  little  cayenne 
pepper;  place  on  tins,  put  in  oven  and  let  remain  until  cheese  is  toasted  to 
a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  Jury 


RECIPES  OF  THE 


g>toeet  anfc 


BANANA  SALAD 

3  bananas  i  cup  lemon  juice 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  sherry 

Heart  leaves  of  lettuce 

Slice  bananas  lengthwise  and  then  crosswise;  make  a  sauce  of  the  sugar, 
lemon  juice  and  sherry;  in  this  put  the  prepared  bananas  and  allow  to  stand 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  several  hours;  chill  before  serving  and  place  on 
the  lettuce  with  the  sauce  poured  over.  To  be  served  as  a  first  course  at  a 
ladies'  luncheon. 

Mary  Robinson  Thomas 

CHERRY  SALAD 

Carefully  remove  the  pits  from  large  black  oxheart  cherries  (Calif  ornias). 
Insert  a  peanut  in  each  and  thoroughly  chill.  Form  cups  of  heart-leaves  of 
lettuce;  place  a  pyramid  of  cherries  in  each.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Very  dainty. 

Mrs.  Emerson 

CREAMED  CABBAGE 

1  small  cabbage  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  cup  cream 

1  cup  sugar 

Chop  the  cabbage  very  fine;  sprinkle  with  the  salt  and  let  it  stand  a  half 
hour;  then  squeeze  in  your  hands  till  dry.  Add  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  cream. 
(Lily  or  Carnation  does  very  well).  Put  this  mixture  in  a  tall  can  or  pitcher 
and  beat  until  creamed. 

Mrs.  Seibert 

EGG  SALAD 

6  hard  cooked  eggs  2  small  onions 

1  doz.  medium  sized  potatoes  Cream  salad  dressing. 

Shell  the  eggs  and  peel  the  potatoes  and  cut  in  dice;  add  the  onions  sliced; 
put  first  a  layer  of  one  and  then  of  the  other  until  all  is  used.  Pour  over  it 
the  salad  dressing. 

Mrs.  Hagen 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 


STUFFED  EGGS 

6  hard-cooked  eggs  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

6  anchovies  1  green  onion  (minced) 

6  olives  J  slice  of  milk  bread  without 

crust  moistened  in  milk 

Cut  eggs  lengthwise  and  remove  yolks;  make  a  smooth  paste  of  onion  and 
parsley  rubbed  together;  add  olives,  bread,  yolks  and  anchovies  and  two 
tablespoons  of  mayonnaise.  Fill  the  whites  with  this  paste;  arrange  on  a 
platter;  garnish  with  lettuce,  mayonnaise  and  paprika. 

Mrs.  Aubert 

Note:  Eggs  to  be  properly  cooked  should  never  be  allowed  to  boil;  for  soft- 
cooked  eggs  bring  the  water  to  the  boiling  point,  allow  the  eggs  to  stand 
in  this,  covered,  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  from  five  to  six  minutes.  For 
hard-cooked  eggs  bring  the  water  to  the  boiling  point  and  allow  the  eggs  to 
stand  in  it,  covered,  on  the  back  of  the  stove  forty-five  minutes. 

M.  R.  T. 


GERMAN  HERRING  SALAD 

3  salt  herring  3  cold  boiled  potatoes 

2  small  pickles  1  cup  of  chopped  celery 
1  onion  2  apples 

3  beets  (boiled)  2  hard-cooked  eggs 

Chop  all  ingredients  fine;  add  vinegar  and  a  little  mayonnaise;  serve  on 
lettuce;  garnish  with  chopped  beets,  hard -cooked  eggs  and  parsley.  The 
herring  should  be  soaked  in  water  for  twelve  hours  and  boned. 

Mrs.  Boldemann 


HOLLAND  HERRING  SALAD 

6  Holland  herring  3  hard-cooked  eggs 

l£  Ibs.  veal  Small  bottle  of  capers 

4  small  onions  1  spoon  olive  oil 

4  good-sized  apples  1  tablespoon  sugar 

6  medium  sized  pickles  £  cup  vinegar 

Season  to  taste;  chop  all  very  fine  and  mix.    Soak  herring  over  night. 

Mrs.  B.  E.  C.  R. 


RECIPES  OF  THE 


LETTUCE  LEAVES— GENOESE  FASHION 

8  anchovies  Chopped  beets 

2  hard -cooked  eggs  Parsley 

8  lettuce  leaves  (2J  inches  long)  Paprika 

Capers  Mayonnaise 

Separate  fillets  of  anchovies  into  bits;  add  the  eggs  cut  in  tiny  cubes; 
season  with  paprika  and  mix  with  enough  mayonnaise  to  hold  the  bits 
together.  Upon  each  lettuce  leaf  dispose  a  teaspoon  of  the  mixture, 
packing  it  closely;  then  mask  and  cover  neatly  with  mayonnaise;  garnish  with 
capers,  beets  and  parsley.  Serve  one  to  each  person  on  a  tiny  plate,  as  an 
appetizer  for  a  ladies'  luncheon.  (To  be  eaten  with  the  fingers).  Anchovies 
put  up  in  oil  are  ready  for  use;  those  preserved  in  salt  need  to  be  freshened 
by  standing  some  hours  in  either  milk  or  water. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


MACEDOINE  ASPIC  SALAD 

J  package  gelatine  \  teaspoon  salt 

\  cup  water  A  dash  of  cayenne 

\  cup  vinegar  1  cup  of  celery 

\  lemon  \  cup  cabbage 

\  pint  boiling  water  \  cup  sweet  red  peppers 
Lettuce 

Soak  gelatine  in  water;  add  the  vinegar,  lemon  juice  and  boiling  water; 
salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready  the  celery,  cabbage  and  sweet  red  peppers 
cut  very  fine.  When  gelatine  begins  to  harden,  stir  in  these  ingredients.  Turn 
into  individual  moulds  to  harden.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

M.  R.  T. 

NUT  SALAD 

\  pt.  walnuts  A  sprig  of  parsley 

1  pt.  soup  stock  12  mushrooms  chopped  fine 

1  bay  leaf  Lettuce  or  chickory 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion  1  orange 

1  tablespoon  chopped  carrot  French  dressing 

Shell  the  walnuts,  keeping  the  kernels  in  perfect  halves;  cover  with  boiling 
water;  boil  for  five  minutes;  then  remove  skins  carefully  from  all  the  little 
crevices.  Put  the  walnuts  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  a  pint  of  stock;  add 
the  bay-leaf,  onion,  carrot  and  parsley.  Simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes 
and  then  drain;  stand  away  until  cold.  When  ready  to  serve  line  salad 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 


bowl  with  lettuce  or  chicory,  cut  an  orange  into  halves  and  scoop  out  the 
pulp.  Put  this  pulp  over  the  lettuce  leaves,  then  a  sprinkling  of  mushrooms, 
then  the  walnuts,  then  the  remaining  mushrooms.  Cover  with  French 
dressing,  mix  and  serve.  This  salad  is  exceedingly  nice  to  serve  with  game 
course. 

Mrs.  McCarthy 
Note:  Presumably  the  mushrooms  have  been  cooked. 

M .  R.  T. 

POTATO  SALAD 

1  doz.  small  potatoes  Parsley 

1  small  bunch  celery  2  cucumbers 

1  large  onion  Mayonnaise  dressing 
Lettuce  leaves 

Boil  potatoes  with  the  jackets  on;  when  cold,  slice.  Chop  the  celery  fine, 
also  the  onion  and  parsley.  Cucumbers  cut  in  small  pieces  the  size  of  dice, 
which  have  been  left  standing  a  couple  of  hours  covered  with  salt.  Mix 
altogether  and  cover  with  enough  mayonnaise  dressing  to  make  very  moist; 
garnish  with  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  Usher 

SUNDAY  NIGHT  SALAD 

1  slice  of  halibut  (1^  in.  thick)  1  teaspoon  salt 

Chopped  onion  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  bay-leaf  Lettuce 

\  teaspoon  celery  seed  Sauce    tartare   or   cooked 

mayonnaise  dressing 

Put  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  into  the  bottom  of  the  baking-pan;  lay  the 
slice  of  halibut  on  top;  sprinkle  over  a  little  chopped  onion,  a  broken  bay- 
leaf,  celery  seed,  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Stand  in  a  cool  .place  for  thirty 
minutes.  Place  on  stove,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  allow  it  to  simmer 
for  twenty  minutes.  Lift  the  cheesecloth  carefully,  draining  the  fish.  When 
the  fish  is  dry  turn  it  on  the  serving-dish,  remove  the  outside  skin  and  stand 
it  in  the  refrigerator  until  serving  time,  then  garnish  with  lettuce  leaves  and 
pass  a  bowl  of  either  sauce  with  it. 

Mrs.  McCarthy 

SHRIMP  AND  PIMENTO  SALAD 

1  can  pimentos  Lettuce 

1  can  shrimps  Mayonnaise 

Lay  the  pimentos  into  cold  water  for  five  minutes,  then  drain  and  dry; 
rinse  the  shrimps  in  cold  water  and  dry.  Shred  each  and  mix  with  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Ross 


10  RECIPES  OF  THE 


SHRIMP  IN  ASPIC  SALAD 

1  box  Knox's  gelatine  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  cup  cold  water  2  or  3  Chili  peppers 

1  qt.  boiling  soup  stock  Pepper 

1  cup  tomato  sauce  Salt 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water;  add  the  boiling  soup  stock  and  tomato 
sauce.  For  the  tomato  sauce  boil  the  tomatoes  and  the  butter,  pepper,  salt 
and  Chili  peppers;  strain.  Pour  first  a  little  liquid  in  the  moulds  (which 
have  been  previously  wet  with  cold  water)  then  shrimps,  and  so  on  until 
mould  is  full.  Make  the  day  before,  or  early  in  the  morning  for  dinner. 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  and  bread-and-butter  sandwiches.  (The 
gelatine  should  begin  to  stiffen  before  it  is  put  into  the  moulds). 

Mrs.  Marks 
SHRIMP  OR  CRAB  SALAD 

6  medium  sized  tomatoes  Garlic 

1  large  crab  or  a  quart  of  shrimps      Parsley 

2  or  3  stalks  of  celery  3  hard-cooked  eggs 

Mayonnaise  dressing 

Scoop  out  the  inside  of  the  tomatoes  and  place  them  individually  on  lettuce 
leaves;  add  the  celery  chopped  fine  to  the  crab  or  shrimps,  also  a  mere  sug- 
gestion of  garlic  and  minced  parsley  and  the  eggs;  mix  altogether  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  fill  tomatoes. 

Mrs.  Banner 

WALNUT  AND  ORANGE  SALAD 

2  cups  sliced  oranges  Mayonnaise 

1  cup  of  walnuts  Lettuce,  or  watercress. 

Remove  the  peel  of  the  oranges  and  separate  into  carpels;  slice  walnuts 
very  thin,  mix  with  mayonnaise;  serve  on  lettuce  or  watercress.  Particularly 
nice  with  game. 

M its  Jansgen 

PIMENTO  SALAD 

1  doz.  pimentos  1  small  onion 

4  celery  roots  Salt 

1  large  green  apple  Cayenne 

3  stalks  of  celery  Mayonnaise 
Lettuce  Olives 

Boil  the  celery  roots  until  tender;  when  cold  chop  fine  with  the  apple,  the 
celery  and  the  onion;  season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  mix 
with  mayonnaise  and  fill  pimentos,  masking  the  top  with  mayonnaise  and 
a  small  white  leaf  of  lettuce  and  an  olive.  Place  on  crisp  lettuce  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Jennings 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  11 


POTATO  SALAD 

Chop  the  required  amount  of  cold  potatoes,  onions  and  celery  and  mix 
with  these  a  dressing  made  of  one  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour,  one 
cup  of  vinegar  and  one  beaten  egg;  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens; 
let  this  cool;  add  an  equal  amount  of  whipped  cream  and  garnish  the  salad 
with  hard-cooked  eggs. 

Mrs.  Nickersan 


SARDINE  SALAD 

Remove  bones  from  one  dozen  sardines;  mix  four  hard -cooked  eggs 
finely  chopped,  twelve  pimolas  finely  chopped,  and  three  pickles  finely  chopped 
with  one  wine  glass  of  mayonnaise;  serve  sardines  on  lettuce  and  dot  over 
them  teaspoons  of  the  egg  mixture. 


SWEETBREAD  SALAD 

Marinate  one  cup  each  of  cold  cooked  sweetbreads,  celery  and  cucumbers; 
chill  one  hour;  drain,  mix  with  mayonnaise,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
garnish  with  pimentos. 

Mrt.  R.  J.  J. 


12  RECIPES  OF  THE 


LEVY  BROTHERS 

are  sole  distributers  for  the  best  California  Olive  Oil 
from  the  T.  Parrot  Ranch,  St.  Helena 


_  WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  _        13 

&alab  Brewing  anb  IXelfefje* 

SALAD  DRESSING 

2  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter 

J  cup  vinegar  1  teaspoon  salt 

\  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  mustard 

Beat  the  eggs,  stir  in  the  ingredients  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick^as  cream.  When  cold  pour  over  chopped  cabbage  or  celery. 

Mrs.  Shoup 

SALAD  DRESSING 

\  teaspoon  mustard  J  teaspoon  pepper 

\  teaspoon  salt       ^  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

\  teaspoon  sugar  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

4  tablespoons  L.  &  P.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Mix  mustard,  salt,  sugar,  pepper  and  vinegar  until  smooth;  add  gradually 
the  olive  oil  and  Worcestershire  sauce  stirring  well. 
This  salad  dressing  will  keep. 

Mrs.  Trowbridge 

SALAD  CREAM  MAYONNAISE 

2  tablespoons  dry  mustard  2  unbeaten  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  \  cup  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  sugar  §  cup  milk 

Wet  with  enough  hot  water  to  mix.  Drop  in  all  the  oil  it  will  contain, 
slowly  beating  all  the  time;  add  the  eggs,  vinegar  and  milk  gradually;  beat 
well.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Will  keep 
for  a"number  of  days. 


Mrs.  F.  Bain 


DRESSING  FOR  CABBAGE 


1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  butter 
\  teaspoon  mustard  4  tablespoons  cream 

2  tablespoons  sugar  6  tablespoons  vinegar 

2  eggs 

Cook  all  the  ingredients  except  the  vinegar  in  double  boiler  until  thickened, 
then  add  vinegar  gradually;  cook  a  very  little  longer;  cool  and  mix  with 
chopped  cabbage. 

M.  R.  T. 


14  RECIPES  OF  THE 


SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  CABBAGE  OR  MINCED  VEGETABLES 

1  cup  vinegar  3  egg  yolks 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

\  cup  butter  (scant  measure)  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch 

Heat  all  except  cornstarch  and  eggs;  when  hot  thicken  with  corn  starch 
and  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Onion  and  mustard  may  be  added  to  the 
dressing. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  B. 


FRENCH  MUSTARD 

3  tablespoons  mustard  1  teacup  cider  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

1  egg 

Work  the  mustard  and  the  sugar  together  until  smooth;  then  beat  in  the 
egg  and  the  cider  vinegar  a  little  at  a  time,  working  it  all  smooth;  then  set 
on  stove  and  cook  three  or  four  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;  when  cool, 
add  one  tablespoon  of  olive  oil,  taking  care  to  get  it  all  thoroughly  worked 
in  and  smooth. 

Mrs.  Beck 


CHEESE  STRAWS  TO  SERVE  WITH  SALAD 

2  oz.  grated  Parmesan  cheese  Yolk  of  one  egg 

2  oz.  flour  Salt 

2  oz.  butter  Cayenne 

Make  a  paste  of  the  cheese  and  flour,  butter  and  yolk  of  egg,  salt  and 
pepper.  Roll  out  the  paste  until  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  cut 
into  very  narrow  strips  and  place  on  buttered  tin;  bake  ten  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Mr$.  Beretta 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  15 


Jffleate 


COLD  MEAT  CAKES  AND  GREEN  PEAS 

Chop  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  mix  with  cold  boiled  rice  or  any  left-over 
mix  with  few  beaten  eggs,  a  little  milk,  season  to  taste  and  bake  in  gem-pans 
fifteen  minutes;  serve  on  platter  with  green  peas  and  gravy  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Eckley 

BEEF  AND  KIDNEY  PIE 

2  beef  kidneys  Parsley 

Salt  Round  steak 

Butter  4  tablespoons  flour 

Onion  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

Cover  the  beef  kidneys  with  water  and  plenty  of  salt;  let  stand  two  hours 
and  wash  well;  cut  in  dice,  rejecting  the  tubes  and  the  purplish  cores;  saute 
with  butter,  onion,  parsley  and  ten  cents'  worth  round  steak  cut  in  dice; 
sprinkle  in  the  flour  and  add  the  hot  water  (two  cups)  then  the  vinegar  and 
cook  until  tender;  put  in  a  deep  baking  dish,  cover  with  pie-crust  and  bake 
until  brown. 

Mrs.  Metegar 

BEEF  AND  KIDNEY  PUDDING 

1  Ib.  rump  steak  Pepper 

i  Ib.  kidneys  Salt 

Flour 

Cut  the  steak  in  short,  thick  pieces;  line  a  basin  with  suet  paste;  lay  in 
the  kidneys,  the  steak  and  a  small  onion  chopped;  pour  over  a  little  water 
and  cover  the  top  securely  with  paste;  dip  a  cloth  in  boiling  water,  dredge 
with  flour;  tie  up  the  pudding  and  boil  three  hours. 

Paste:  \  Ib.  flour,  \  Ib.  suet,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  cold  water 
to  mix  to  a  stiff  dough. 

Mrs.  Aldwett 

EXETER  STEW 

1  tablespoon  drippings  l£  cups  cold  water 

\  small  onion  A  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  flour  3  cloves 

1  Ib.  round  steak  cut  in  small  pieces 

Heat  drippings  in  sauce-pan;  cook  onion  in  them  to  a  golden  brown;  add 
the  flour  and  stir  until  smooth,  cook  until  frothy;  add  water  and  cook  until 


1C  RECIPES  OF  THE 


it  boils;  add  meat,  salt  and  cloves;  simmer  for  two  and  one-half  hours;  boil 
the  last  twenty-fire  minutes  while  the  savory  balls  are  cooked. 

SAVORY  BALLS 

\  cup  flour  i  teaspoon  thyme 

J  teaspoon  baking-powder  1  teaspoon  parsley  (minced) 

|  cup  finely  chopped  suet  1  pinch  salt 

Milk  enough  to  make  soft  dough 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  rub  in  suet  and  parsley;  add  milk  gradually,  using  a 
spatula;  turn  on  floured  board  and  make  in  small  balls;  bring  stew  to  boiling 
point,  put  in  balls,  cover  closely  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  5. 

HAMBURG  STEAKS 

One  pound  of  lean,  raw,  round  steak  put  through  the  meat-chopper  twice, 
removing  all  fibre  possible;  to  this  add  one  egg,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  dash  of  nutmeg,  two  tablespoons  sifted  flour  and 
one-fourth  cup  cold  water;  form  into  small  balls  and  flatten;  dredge  with 
flour  and  saute  them  in  plenty  of  butter;  make  a  thick  sauce  by  adding  a 
tablespoon  of  flour  to  the  butter  used  in  the  saute  pan;  let  it  brown,  then  add 
slowly  a  little  milk;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  drop  sauce  on  each  cake 
without  spreading  it;  garnish  with  watercress.  These  steaks  can  be  made 
from  the  end  pieces  of  steaks. 

Mrs.  Andrews 

VEAL  (New  Way) 

Take  veal  from  the  breast,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  saute  with  six  slices 
of  salt  pork  until  brown,  then  add  hot  water,  a  pinch  of  mace,  very  little 
salt,  pepper,  finely  chopped  onion,  parsley  and  small  piece  of  sage;  cook 
until  tender,  thicken  with  flour  and  add  one  can  of  French  mushrooms, 
cup  of  hot  milk  and  serve  with  dumplings  or  hot  biscuits. 

VEAL  BIRDS 

Take  slices  of  veal  from  the  loin  cut  very  thin  and  pound  until  about  one- 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick;  trim  into  two  and  one-half  by  four  inch  pieces;  chop 
the  trimmings  with  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork,  add  half  as  many  bread-crumbs, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  onion  and  thyme;  spread  on  each  slice  of  meat, 
roll  up  tightly  and  tie  with  a  string;  dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and 
fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown,  then  simmer  with  one  cup  of  water  poured  over 
it  for  two  hours. 

Mrs.  C.  M. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  17 


BOILED  HAM  SOUTHERN  STYLE 

Soak  a  ham  twelve  hours  and  boil  in  enough  water  to  cover  it  adding  one 
pint  of  white  wine  vinegar;  allow  it  to  cool  in  the  water  it  has  boiled  in,  then 
remove  the  skin  and  trim  carefully;  beat  into  the  yolk  of  one  egg  one  teacup 
of  brown  sugar;  spread  this  over  the  ham  until  the  top  is  covered,  then  place 
in  the  dripping  pan  and  pour  one  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar  over  it;  bake  one 
hour,  basting  frequently  with  the  vinegar;  this  gives  it  a  flavor  like  Cham- 
pagne. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  E. 


CURRY  OF  LAMB,  VEAL  OR  CHICKEN 

One  tablespoon  butter;  in  this  brown  two  tablespoons  minced  onion  and 
a  half  a  clove  of  garlic  minced;  add  to  this  one  tablespoon  flour  and  allow  it 
to  brown;  add  a  cupful  of  hot  water  or  hot  stock;  add  one  cup  of  meat  diced; 
one  teaspoon  curry  powder;  one  teaspoon  salt.  Serve  with  rice  and  quarters 
of  lemons. 

M.  R.  T. 


YORKSHIRE  PUDDING 

3  eggs  1  scant  cup  flour 

1  pt.  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  eggs  well;  mix  with  milk;  sift  flour  into  a  bowl,  pour  the  eggs  and  milk 
into  the  flour  gradually  and  bake  in  roast  beef  gravy,  the  more  gravy  the 
better.  Bake  for  ten  minutes  before  opening  the  oven  door.  This  pudding 
is  baked  in  the  roast-beef  pan  after  the  roast  is  finished  and  served  with  the 
beef. 

Mrs.  Mig 


GERMAN  NOODLES 

Into  two  beaten  eggs  and  one  tablespoon  water,  stir  sifted  flour  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  turn  out  on  floured  board  and  knead, 
adding  as  much  flour  as  can  be  kneaded  in;  cut  in  three  portions  and  roll 
each  portion  very  thin  and  place  aside  to  dry;  when  ready  to  cut,  roll  the 
sheet  of  paste  and  cut  fine  with  a  sharp  knife;  cook  ten  minutes  in  plenty 
of  salted  boiling  water;  strain  through  colander.  Take  one  cup  of  stale 
bread  crumbs,  fry  brown  with  generous  slice  of  butter;  heap  noodles  in  platter 
with  browned  crumbs  spread  thickly  over  them.  Serve  with  fricasseed 
chicken  or  veal. 

Mrs.  F.  L.  0. 


18  RECIPES  OF  THE 


TURKEY  DRESSING 

1  Ib.  fresh  pork  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

J  Ib.  veal  1  egg 

1  loaf  stale  bread  crumbs  Salt 

1  box  truffles  (small)  Pepper 

1  can  chestnuts  Nutmeg 

Grated  onion  Marjoram 

The  pork  should  be  both  lean  and  fat;  this  and  the  veal  should  be  chopped 
in  the  meat  chopper  twice;  add  a  little  water  and  mix  in  the  bread-crumbs; 
(more  bread-crumbs  may  be  needed)  then  add  the  truffles  sliced  thin,  the 
chestnuts,  a  small  amount  of  grated  onion,  the  Worcestershire  sauce,  egg, 
salt  pepper  and  a  very  little  nutmeg,  marjoram  or  any  savory;  mix  altogether 
well;  one-half  pound  of  fresh  chestnuts  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  canned 
chestnuts;  these  must  be  boiled,  skinned  and  chopped  fine. 

Mrs.  Andrews 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  19 


THE  PALACE  MARKET 

Thomas  J .  Brady,  Prop. 
229  and  231  "B"  Street  and  230  and  232  Main  Street,  San  Mateo 

Phone  461 

Always  the  choicest  of  Meats,  Fowl,  Fish,  Oysters  and  Dairy  Produce  at  city 
prices.     Game  in  season 


20  RECIPES  OF  THE 


$oultrp  anb  (Same 


FRICASSEE  OF  FOWL 


Half  roast  a  good  sized  chicken;  take  from  oven  and  carve  very  neatly; 
remove  the  skin,  keep  the  trimmings  and  put  the  nice  pieces  of  chicken 
aside  until  wanted;  then  put  into  a  saucepan  a  slice  of  bacon  cut  in  dice, 
two  carrots  and  a  small  onion  sliced,  a  green  pepper  cut  in  small  pieces, 
a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  bay-leaf,  thyme  and  salt  to  taste,  and  one  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Let  these  simmer  together  for  about  twenty  minutes  and  when 
well  browned  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  let  it  cook  thoroughly;  then  add  a 
pint  and  one-fourth  of  stock  and  a  wine-glassful  of  Marsala;  then  add  the 
trimmings  of  the  chicken,  with  the  back  cut  up  in  small  pieces  and  let  the 
whole  simmer  for  thirty  minutes;  strain  and  when  cold  put  in  the  pieces  of 
chicken  and  warm  them  up  gradually  by  letting  them  simmer  in  the  sauce 
for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  serve  as  hot  as  possible,  garnish  with 
small  slices  of  toast. 

Mrs.  C.  McCarthy 

FRICASSEE  CHICKEN  (SPANISH  STYLE) 

Chicken  J  cup  pitted  olives  (ripe) 

Olive  oil  1  can  mushrooms 

1  large  onion  Cloves 

\  clove  garlic,  minced  Bay  leaves 

£  can  tomatoes,  strained  1  tablespoon  Chili  powder 

1  glass  white  wine  Salt 

\  cup  carrots  Pepper 

Prepare  a  chicken  as  for  fricassee;  fry  in  olive  oil  and  when  golden  brown 
add  the  onion,  garlic,  and  fry  with  the  chicken  about  ten  minutes,  then  add 
tomatoes,  wine,  carrots  cut  small,  olives,  mushrooms,  cloves,  bay  leaves, 
Chili  powder,  salt  and  pepper  and  one  quart  water;  simmer  slowly  until 
chicken  is  tender;  add  more  water  if  gravy  boils  down;  cook  wild  or  tame 
ducks  or  pigeons  in  the  same  manner,  using  claret  instead  of  white  wine. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  A. 

BAKED  CHICKEN 

Cut  young  chicken  through  the  back,  wash  and  flatten,  put  in  baking 
pan  with  large  pieces  of  butter  in  the  joints  of  the  legs  and  wings;  dredge 
with  flour,  salt  and  pepper;  bake  in  moderate  oven  from  one  to  one  and  one- 
half  hours;  baste  often  with  water  and  butter  mixed;  cover  if  the  chicken  gets 
too  brown. 

Mrs.  Dennett 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 21 

BAKED  CHICKEN 

Disjoint  two  chickens,  roll  in  flour  and  saute  in  butter  to  a  slight  brown; 
add  to  the  chicken  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  bake 
in  the  oven  until  tender;  when  ready  to  serve  add  mushrooms  to  the  liquor 
and  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour. 

Mrs.  Baker 

SOUTHERN  GUMBO 

Saute  one  chicken  and  two  slices  of  bacon  until  brown;  pour  over  them 
three  quarts  of  boiling  water;  add  one  onion  and  some  sweet  herbs  tied  in  a 
cloth;  simmer  this  gently  for  three  hours  and  a  half;  strain  off  the  soup, 
take  off  the  fat,  then  put  the  bacon  and  chickens  cut  in  small  pieces  into  the 
liquor;  add  one-half  teacup  okra  cut  up;  also  one-half  tea  cup  rice;  simmer 
half  an  hour  longer  and  just  before  serving  add  a  glass  of  wine  and  one  dozen 
oysters  with  their  juice. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  E. 

CHICKEN  OR  VEAL  CROQUETTES 

3  cups  finely  minced  meat  (cooked)  3  tablespoons  sweet  cream 
£  cup  rice  (cooked)  or  gravy 

Juice  of  \  lemon  Black  pepper 

Slice  of  onion  Cayenne 

Sprig  of  parsley,  minced  Salt 

Cracker  crumbs  Beaten  egg 
Hot  lard 

Mix  the  mince  meat,  rice  and  cream  together;  add  the  lemon  juice,  onion, 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  make  in  any  shape  desired;  dip  in  cracker  crumbs, 
then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  Jury 

Note:  If  the  egg  is  beaten  with  a  tablespoon  of  water,  the  croquettes  can 
be  dipped  much  more  easily.  Hot  olive  oil  is  much  more  wholesome  for 
frying  and  is  not  any  more  expensive  in  the  end,  as  fish  may  be  fried  at  one 
time  in  it  and  allowed  to  cool  and  banana  fritters  or  any  sweetmeat  the  second 
time  and  the  latter  will  not  taste  of  the  fish;  in  other  words,  olive  oil  does  not 
retain  the  flavor  of  anything  previously  cooked  in  it. 

M.  R.  T. 

CHICKEN  TERRAPIN 

One  chicken  simmered  in  just  as  little  water  as  possible  until  tender; 
cut  meat  in  small  pieces;  put  scant  one-fourth  cup  of  butter  in  saucepan 
with  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  rub  smooth;  add  half  a  teaspoon  of  mace  or 


22  RECIPES  OF  THE 


nutmeg;  three-fourths  pint  of  the  liquor  the  chicken  was  cooked  in,  a  dozen 
mushrooms  cut  in  small  pieces;  boil  this  up  a  few  minutes  then  add  four  hard- 
cooked  eggs  cut  fine,  a  claret-glass  of  sherry,  a  liberal  sprinkle  of  red  and 
black  pepper;  let  all  boil  two  or  three  minutes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Goodspeed 


COTTONTAIL  SAUTE 

2  small  cottontail  rabbits  1  bay  leaves 

Butter  Few  whole  peppers 

Flour  Few  pieces  dried  mushrooms 

1  teaspoon  sugar  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

1  pt.  boiling  water  sauce 

1  onion  1  tablespoon  salt 

Lemon  rind  1  pt.  white  wine 

Disjoint  the  rabbits,  brown  in  butter,  add  flour,  sugar,  water,  onion,  bay 
leaves,  peppers,  mushrooms,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  salt;  simmer  for 
one  hour,  then  add  small  piece  of  lemon  rind  and  the  white  wine  and  simmer 
until  rabbits  are  tender. 

Mrs.  Boldemann 


BELGIAN  HARE 

2  young  Belgian  hares  2  tablespoons  parsley,  minced 

1  quart  claret  2  tablespoons  whiskey 
\  Ib.  salt  pork  cut  in  squares  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  onions  cut  fine  cooked  in  butter  \  teaspoon  pepper 

and  little  water 

Braise  the  salt  pork  in  kettle,  when  brown  remove  the  pieces;  then  braise 
the  pieces  of  hare  in  this  fat;  when  the  meat  turns  white  pour  over  the  whiskey 
and  light  immediately  with  a  match  and  let  the  blaze  burn  out;  sift  in  the 
flour,  stirring  until  light  brown;  then  add  the  hot  wine  slowly,  the  onions, 
parsley,  pepper,  pinch  of  thyme,  paprika  and  the  cooked  salt  pork;  cover 
tightly  and  cook  slowly  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Aubert 


PASO  ROBLES  DOVE  STEW 

Braise  the  doves  in  some  bacon  fat,  then  in  a  porcelain  lined  kettle;  place 
a  layer  of  doves,  cover  with  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  add  another  layer  of  doves 
and  cover  with  tomatoes  and  so  on  until  all  the  doves  have  been  used;  add 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 23 

water  to  the  depth  of  layers,  stew  until  tender;  carefully  lift  out  the  doves, 
strain  the  gravy,  thicken,  add  mushrooms  and  port  wine;  let  it  come  to  a 
boil  and  add  doves. 

Mrs.  Merk 

ROAST  WILD  DUCK 

Dress,  clean  and  truss  a  wild  duck;  place  on  rack  in  dripping  pan,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover  breast  with  two  very  thin  slices  of  fat  salt 
pork;  for  the  stuffing  use  equal  part  of  celery,  carrots  and  onions  which  have 
been  put  through  the  meat  chopper;  bake  from  one-half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  a  very  hot  oven  basting  frequently  with  the  fat  in  the  pan. 
Remove  the  stuffing  from  the  ducks  before  serving,  as  these  vegetables  are 
used  only  to  season  the  ducks.  Serve  with  orange  or  olive  sauce;  currant 
jelly  should  accompany  a  duck  course. 

M .  R.  T. 


24 


RECIPES  OF  THE 


$oultrp  antr  (game 


WALTER  G.  TUCKER 

Manufacturers'  Agency 
HIGH-GRADE  SILVER  PLATE  AND  CUTLERY 

507  Mission  St.,  San  Francisco 

Special  Agency  Holmes  &  Edwards'  Sterling  Silver  Inlaid  Spoons  and  Forks 
"Solid  Silver  Where  it  Wears"      Guaranteed  twenty-five  years 

Pacific^Coast  Agency  J.  Tyson  Rogers  Company  Guaranteed  Kitchen  Cutlery 


I.  Tyson  Rogers  8-p.  Kitchen  Set 


Greatest  Value  Ever  Offered  in  America 

Cleaver,  handy  size  for  cutting  chicken, fish  and  meat  bones 
and  chopping  vegetables  (saves  hacking  up  your  knives). 
Bread  Knife,  Carving  Set  3  p.  Scimiter  and  swaged  blade 
and  Steel  of  emery  and  carborundum  mixed— fine  for 
sharpening  (will  not  break).  Universal  Can  Opener,  opens 
any  can  round  or  square.  Patent  Apple  and  Potato  Parer 
(cuts a  thin  peeling).  Meat-Sawfor  heavy  bones.  This  set  is 
made  of  selected  cutlery-steel  with  Ebonized  Handles,  well 
riveted  and  is  guaranteed  Indefinitely.  We  will  send  new 
goods  immediately  for  any  piece  found  defective.  Our 
goods  stamped  plainly  "J.  Tyson  Rogers."  Look  out  for 
cheap  counterfeits— not  riveted.  Price  $2.50  (worth  $5.00) 
in  a  neat  box.  Leatherette  Velvet-lined  Case  for  a  wedding 
gift  $2.50  extra.  If  you  wish  sent  by  mail,  prepaid,  add 
40  cents  for  postage.  Send  money  order.  Agents  wanted. 
County  rights  given  to  capable  men  of  clean  habita. 
WALTER  G.  TUCKER,  Pacific  Coa«t  Acencr 

J.  Tyson  Rogers  Manufacturing  Co. 
BOT  Mission  St.  San  Francisco 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  25 


BAKED  FISH 

Put  fish  into  baking  pan  with  one  cup  stock  (water  may  be  used  instead 
of  stock),  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  thin  slices  of  half  a  lemon;  half 
a'pint  of  either  mushrooms,  clams  or  oysters;  two  cloves  stuck  into  a  tiny 
onion;  teaspoon  chopped  parsley;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  or  more  according  to  the  size  of  the  fish,  basting  constantly. 

Mrs.  Schmollc 

CLAMS,  ANCIENT 

Select  from  six  to  eight  clams  for  each  person  to  be  served;  remove  neck 
and  hard  portion  of  the  clam,  and  mince  in  a  bowl  with  bacon  and  cloves  or 
green  onions;  place  each  clam  in  a  clean  half  shell;  sprinkle  each  with  the 
minced  mixture  above  mentioned,  add  a  drop  or  two  of  tomato  sauce,  and 
a  dice  of  butter  to  each  clam;  dust  lightly  with  cracker  crumbs;  bake  about 
twenty  minutes  in  a  medium  oven  preferably  in  a  stone  china  platter  and  serve 
on  same  platter. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Brown 

BOSTON  FISH  CHOWDER 

4  pounds  cod  or  haddock  £  teaspoon  pepper 

4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  small  cubes  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  sliced  onion  4  cups  scalded  milk 

1^  in.  cube  fat  salt  pork  6  Ibs.  crackers 
1  tablespoon  salt 

Order  the  fish  skinned,  leaving  on  the  head  and  tail;  cut  off  head  and  tail 
and  remove  fish  from  the  backbone;  cut  the  fish  in  two-inch  pieces  and  set 
aside;  put  head,  tail  and  backbone  broken  into  pieces  in  saucepan;  add  two 
cups  of  cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Cook  twenty  min- 
utes. Cut  salt  pork  in  small  pieces  and  try  out;  add  onion  and  fry  five 
minutes;  strain  fat  into  saucepan;  parboil  potatoes  five  minutes  in  boiling 
water  to  cover.  Drain  and  add  potatoes  to  fat;  then  add  two  cups  boiling 
water  and  cook  five  minutes;  add  liquor  drained  from  bone,  then  add  fish; 
cover  and  simmer  ten  minutes;  add  milk,  salt,  pepper,  butter,  crackers  (split 
and  soaked  in  enough  milk  to  moisten). 

Mrs.  A.  M.  E. 

BROILED  HALIBUT 

Take  several  thick  slices  of  the  fish;  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  lemon  juice, 
paprika,  salt  and  salad  oil;  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  half  an  hour;  after- 


26  RECIPES  OF  THE 


wards  wrap  in  oiled  paper  and  broil  on  a  gridiron  rubbed  with  unsalted 
butter  or  beef  suet;  this  can  be  served  with  any  kind  of  sauce  but  the  follow- 
ing will  be  relished  by  those  who  are  fond  of  tomatoes;  rub  together  two 
tablespoons  of  flour,  two  of  butter;  then  add  a  cup  of  strained  tomatoes 
nicely  seasoned. 

Mrs.  Bennett 

SOLE  NORMANDE 

Make  a  paste  of  three  tablespoons  of  butter  and  three  or  four  of  flour, 
spread  the  paste  over  the  side  and  bottom  of  baking  dish,  lay  about  six  pieces 
of  fillet  of  sole  (that  have  been  salted  and  peppered  an  hour)  in  the  dish  and 
sprinkle  over  the  fish  one  cup  of  small  mushrooms,  one  cup  of  shrimps, 
one  cup  of  mussels  and  one  cup  of  white  wine;  bake  and  serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

Mrs.  W.  A. 

SCALLOPED  FISH 

Line  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  cold  flaked  fish  of  any  kind;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  cracker  crumbs;  cover  with  another  layer  of  fish, 
salt,  pepper  and  cracker  crumbs  until  the  dish  is  filled;  season  with  onion 
juice,  lemon  juice  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne;  add  sufficient  milk  to  make 
the  dish  three-fourths  full;  over  the  top  place  buttered  cracker  crumbs  and 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook-Book 


SOLE  A  LA  SOLARI 

Select  a  medium  sized  sole,  clean  and  parboil  for  a  few  minutes;  place  a 
layer  of  creamed  spinach  on  the  bottom  of  a  bake  dish;  lay  the  sole  on  top 
of  spinach;  cover  the  whole  with  cream  sauce;  season  to  suit;  sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese;  work  a  thin  layer  of  mashed  potatoes  on  edge  of  bake  dish 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Brown 

CREAMED  OYSTERS 

1  pt.  oysters  Few  gratings  of  lemon  rind 

l£  cups  white  sauce  Juice  of  half  a  lemon 

Wash  the  oysters  thoroughly;  add  the  white  sauce  which  has  been  made 
by  rubbing  together  one-fourth  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cup  flour,  and  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  milk;  season  with  the  gratings  of  lemon  rind  and  the  lemon 
juice;  celery  salt  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  lemon  juice  or  lemon  rind; 
serve  in  timbale  cases  or  patty  shells. 

M .  R.  T. 


_  WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  _  27 

FISH  STUFFING,  I 

£  cup  cracker  crumbs  J  teaspoon  salt 

J  cup  stale  bread-crumbs  £  teaspoon  pepper 

J  cup  melted  butter  Few  drops  onion  juice 

J  cup  hot  water 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given. 


FISH  STUFFING,  II 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  Few  drops  onion  juice 

J  cup  melted  butter  Parsley  ) 

t  teaspoon  salt  Capers   J^1  teasPoon  each  finely 

£  teaspoon  pepper  Pickles  J  chopped 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.    This  makes  a  dry,  crumbly  stuffing. 


MAITRE  d'HOTEL  BUTTER 

J  cup  butter  8  tablespoons  finely  chopped 

\  teaspoon  salt  parsley 

£  teaspoon  pepper  £  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Put  butter  in  a  bowl  and  with  small  wooden  spoon  work  until  creamed; 
add  salt,  pepper  and  parsley,  then  lemon  juice  very  slowly.  To  be  served 
with  either  fish,  lamb  chops,  or  steak. 


SAUCE  TARTARE 

\  teaspoon  mustard  1^  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  Capers    ~) 

\  teaspoon  salt  Pickles     I    \  tablespoon  each, 

Few  grains  of  cayenne  Olives      f        finely  chopped 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  Parsley  J 

\  cup  olive  oil  \  shallot,  finely  chopped 
\  teaspoon  powdered  tarragon 

Mix  mustard,  sugar,  salt  and  cayenne;  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  stir  until 
thoroughly  mixed,  setting  bowl  in  pan  of  ice  water;  add  oil  at  first  drop  by 
drop,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  wire  whisk;  as  mixture  thickens  dilute 
with  vinegar,  when  oil  may  be  added  more  rapidly;  keep  in  cool  place  until 
ready  to  serve,  then  add  remaining  ingredients. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook-Book 


28  RECIPES  OF  THE 


CALIFORNIA  MARKET 

DEMARTINI  BROS. 
Fruits,  Vegetables,  Imported  Olive  Oil,  Alligator  Pears,  Fresh 

Mushrooms,  in  Season 
Demartinis\  No.  229  B  St.,  San  Mateo,  Phone  791      Gardens  in  Eurlingamt 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  29 


Vegetable* 


STRING  BEANS 


With  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  strings  from  the  beans;  cut  into  small  pieces, 
wash  and  put  into  boiling  salted  water  sufficient  to  cover;  boil  until  tender 
and  the  water  is  evaporated;  then  add  a  generous  lump  of  butter  (about 
one-third  cup),  more  salt  if  needed  and  two  gratings  of  nutmeg.  About 
one  quart  of  beans  used. 

M .  R.  T. 

HARVARD  BEETS 

12  small  beets  ^  tablespoon  cornstarch 

^  cup  sugar  ^  cup  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Wash  the  beets,  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender;  remove  skins  and  cut 
beets  in  thin  slices,  small  cubes  or  fancy  shapes,  using  the  French  vege- 
table cutter.  Mix  the  sugar,  cornstarch  and  vinegar  and  let  boil  five  minutes; 
pour  over  beets  and  let  stand  on  back  of  range  half  an  hour.  Just  before 
serving  add  two  tablespoons  butter  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook-Book 


GERMAN  CABBAGE 

Chop  cabbage  quite  fine  and  boil  about  half  an  hour  until  tender,  then 
drain  and  add  salt,  pepper,  little  butter,  tablespoon  (heaping)  of  flour  (sprink- 
led over  and  stirred  as  put  in);  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  vinegar  to  sour 
as  liked,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  until  creamy. 

Mrs.  W.  Warn 


HEIDELBURG  CARROTS 

3  cups  French  carrots  (cut  in  dice)         £  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  water 

1  tablespoon  flour  2  teaspoons  chopped   parsley 

Cook  carrots  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender;  there  should  be  no  water 
left  when  carrots  are  done;  melt  butter  in  small  saucepan;  take  from  the  fire 
and  stir  in  flour,  then  cook  until  frothy;  add  water  and  stir  until  sauce  boils; 
add  parsley  and  salt,  pour  over  carrots  and  serve. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  S. 


30  RECIPES  OF  THE 


CORN  PUDDING 

1  can  corn  1  tablespoon  sugar 

3  eggs  4  tablespoons  thick  cream 

Salt  to  taste 

Beat  eggs  separately,  then  fold  all  the  ingredients  together,  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Emerson 
GREEN  CORN  (Creole  Style) 

6  ears  of  corn  3  tomatoes 

\  green  pepper  £  teaspoon  sugar 

\  teaspoon  salt  A  little  grated  onion 

2  teaspoons  butter 

Cut  the  corn  from  ears  of  young,  tender  corn,  leaving  as  much  of  the  hull 
on  the  ears  as  possible;  add  the  pepper  finely  chopped,  a  little  onion,  and 
peeled  tomatoes,  cut  up  fine;  heat  the  whole  to  boiling  point,  then  simmer 
fifteen  minutes;  add  sugar  and  salt  and  just  before  removing  from  the  fire 
add  the  butter. 

M.  R.  T. 
STUFFED  EGG  PLANT 

Cut  egg  plant  through  lengthwise;  cut  out  most  of  the  meat  and  boil  in 
salted  water  until  tender;  drain  and  add  a  little  finely  cut  onion  and  parsley 
heated  in  butter,  bread  crumbs,  and  chopped,  hard -cooked  eggs;  mix  alto- 
gether, adding  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg  to  taste;  put  back  into  the  shell  of 
egg  plant  and  bake  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Hall  Ross 


1  head  lettuce  Salt 

2  pts.  small  pease  Pepper 
2  heaping  tablespoons  butter 

Wash  and  make  a  bunch  of  the  lettuce;  prepare  the  pease;  put  the  butter 
in  a  kettle  that  has  a  tight  cover;  when  melted  add  lettuce,  then  pease,  salt 
and  pepper;  cover  tightly,  cook  slowly  forty-five  minutes,  stirring  often. 

Mrs.  J.  Levy 

BAKED  POTATOES 

Potatoes  Whites  of  two  eggs 

Butter  Pepper  and  salt 

Bake  as  many  potatoes  as  necessary;  scoop  out  the  inside  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  large  piece  of  butter;  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  two  or 
more  eggs;  beat  all  until  light  and  fluffy.  Fill  each  potato  shell  and  put  in  hot 
oven  to  brown  slightly. 

Mrs.  Banner 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 31 

GARLIC  POTATOES 

4  tablespoons  oil  6  potatoes 

2  cloves  garlic  Water 

Put  the  oil  in  a  kettle;  in  it  cook  the  garlic,  minced  fine;  peel  the  potatoes, 
cut  in  dice  and  add  to  the  garlic;  stir  them  constantly  until  nicely  browned; 
then  add  enough  water  to  cover  and  let  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Seibcrt 


CALABASITAS  OR  SPANISH  SUMMER  SQUASH 

4  squashes  1  clove  garlic 

1  tomato  1  tablespoon  lard 

1  bell  pepper  Water 

Onion  size  of  almond  Salt 

Pepper 

Cut  into  small  pieces  the  squashes,  tomato,  bell  pepper,  onion  and  garlic; 
put  into  agate  or  porcelain  stew-pan  and  add  the  lard  and  just  enough 
water  to  keep  from  burning;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cook  over  slow  fire 
until  squash  is  tender.  If  needed  add  water  in  small  quantities,  but  the  dish 
should  be  nearly  dry  when  ready  to  be  served.  Can  be  warmed  over  satis- 
factorily. 

Mrs.  Watting 

ITALIAN  SQUASH 

Peel  Italian  squash  and  slice  thin  lengthwise,  then  dip  in  crumbs,  beaten 
eggs,  and  again  in  bread  crumbs;  fry  until  a  light  brown  in  hot  olive  oil, 
then  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Hall  Ross 

CREOLE  TOMATO 

1  large  cup  Carolina  rice  1  green  pepper 

1  can  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  cornstarch 

1  small  onion  Hard-cooked  eggs 

\  teaspoon  salt  Paprika 

Boil  the  rice  Southern  style,  that  is,  have  plenty  of  salted  water  boiling 
in  an  uncovered  kettle;  allow  the  rice  to  boil  hard  for  twenty-five  minutes, 
stirring  only  once  after  it  begins  to  cook;  drain  in  a  colander;  cook  together 
the  tomatoes,  onion,  salt,  green  pepper  for  twenty  minutes,  thicken  with 
the  cornstarch  and  strain;  mound  the  rice  on  a  hot  platter,  pour  over  it  the 
tomato  sauce  and  garnish  with  the  hard-cooked  eggs,  quartered  lengthwise. 

Mrs.  F.  L.  O. 


82  RECIPES  OF  THE 


ASPARAGUS  TOAST 

Cut  cold  boiled  asparagus  into  half  inch  bits  with  a  silver  knife;  if  the 
supply  is  plentiful  use  the  tips  only;  for  a  pint  toast  six  to  eight  thin  slices 
of  stale  bread  and  keep  warm;  in  a  sauce  pan  mix  one  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  one  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  white  pepper; 
stir  in  gradually  one  cup  hot  milk;  cook  for  five  minutes;  then  add  the  pre- 
pared asparagus  and  draw  to  the  back  of  the  stove  or  stand  over  hot  water 
until  the  asparagus  is  heated ;  dip  each  slice  of  toast  for  an  instant  in  slightly 
salted  boiling  water;  spread  on  hot  platter  and  pour  contents  of  the  sauce- 
pan over  them. 

Mrs.  Baker 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  EGGS 

Boil  a  bunch  of  asparagus  twenty  minutes;  cut  off  the  tender  tops  and  lay 
them  in  a  deep  pie  plate;  butter,  salt  and  pepper  well;  beat  up  four  eggs 
separately  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  two  tablespoons  milk,  a  tablespoon  of  butter; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  pour  evenly  over  the  asparagus  mixture;  bake  eight 
minutes  or  until  the  eggs  are  set. 


SCALLOPED    CAULIFLOWER 

Boil  until  tender  a  head  of  cauliflower;  clip  into  small  clusters  and  pack 
with  stems  downward  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish;  beat  up  a  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs  to  a  soft  paste  with  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  and  six  of 
cream  or  rich  milk;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  add  a  beaten  egg  and  with 
this  cover  the  cauliflower;  cover  the  dish  closely  and  bake  six  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  Remove  the  cover  and  sprinkle  the  cauliflower  with  bread 
crumbs  and  butter  and  brown.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Easton 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  33 


Cntreeg 


GENUINE  BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

1  qt.  small  white  beans  1  onion 

1  Ib.  salt  pork  (streaked  with  lean)         ^  level  teaspoon  mustard 

2  tablespoons  molasses  1  full  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Soak  beans  over  night,  drain  in  the  morning;  put  over  fire  in  cold  water 
and  add  soda;  when  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point  pour  into  colander  and 
drain;  rinse  thoroughly  with  fresh  water  and  put  the  beans  into  the  bean  pot, 
having  a  few  slices  of  pork  and  the  onion  in  the  bottom  of  the  bean  pot; 
add  the  salt,  mustard  and  molasses  and  put  the  remaining  pork  over  the  top 
of  the  beans;  cover  with  cold  water  and  bake  eight  to  ten  hours:  add  hot 
water  now  and  then;  do  not  allow  them  to  get  dry. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Brown 

BOBOTEE 

Meat  is  made  more  indigestible  by  second  cooking;  for  this  reason  dishes 
made  from  left-over  meat,  such  light  dishes  as  Bobotee,  Boudins,  Cannelon 
and  Croquettes,  are  not  as  good  on  account  of  the  frying,  and  hashes  are  in- 
digestible on  account  of  the  long  stewing  of  vegetables  in  butter.  The  recipe 
for  Bobotee  is  as  follows:  Put  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan; 
slice  into  the  pan  half  of  a  small  onion  and  cook  until  soft;  add  two  ounces 
of  bread  and  a  cupful  of  milk;  take  from  the  fire  and  let  stand  five  minutes; 
blanch  and  chop  eight  sweet  almonds;  add  these,  a  pint  of  cold  cooked  meat 
(chopped  fine),  a  teaspoon  of  curry  and  three  eggs  (well  beaten)  to  the 
ingredients  in  the  frying  pan;  mix  all  well  together;  rub  a  deep  pie  dish  with 
butter  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  put  the  mixture  into  this  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  for  about  twenty  minutes;  serve  with  boiled  rice  in  a  separate  dish. 

Mrs.  Coxhead 

BRAIN  TIMBALES 

1  set  brains  Beaten  whites  of  four  eggs 

16  chopped  almonds  Salt 

Pepper 

Boil  the  brains  in  salted  water  for  twenty  minutes  then  beat  up  finely 
or  else  squeeze  through  a  vegetable  squeezer,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  almonds,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs;  fill  the  buttered  timbale 
moulds  three-fourths  full  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Sweetbreads  may  be 
used  if  preferred. 


54  RECIPES  OF  THE 


SAUCE 

1  cup  sweet  cream  16  finely  chopped  almonds 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

1  tablespoon  flour  parsley 

Yolk  of  one  egg 

Rub  the  butter  and  flour  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  the  sweet  cream  and 
allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil;  then  add  the  almonds,  parsley  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste;  the  yolk  of  the  egg  to  be  beaten  and  added  after  the  sauce  has  been 
removed  from  the  fire. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  R. 
CHILAQUILES 

Tortillas  Grated  cheese 

Green  or  red  peppers  Chopped  onion 

Lard 

The  stale  tortillas  of  corn  are  cut  in  strips  and  these  in  six  small  pieces; 
brown  slightly  in  hot  lard;  a  sauce  is  made  of  green  or  red  peppers;  in  a  deep 
"casuela"  place  a  layer  of  tortilla  and  another  of  grated  cheese  and  chopped 
onion;  the  third  layer  is  of  the  pepper  sauce;  continue  in  this  manner  until 
the  "causela"  is  full;  then  cover  it  and  place  on  a  slow  fire  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Boden 

SAVORY  SALT  CODFISH 

1  cup  codfish  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  in.  cube  of  salt  pork  lj  cups  rich  milk 

2  yolks  of  eggs  l£  cups  small  potato  cubes 

Separate  the  codfish  into  flakes;  cover  with  luke-warm  water  and  let  soak 
a^half  an  hour  to  remove  some  of  the  salt;  try  out  the  pork  so  that  there 
are  three  tablespoons  of  pork  fat;  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended 
and  pour  on  gradually  the  milk,  stirring  constantly;  bring  to  boiling  point, 
add  pork  scraps,  the  eggs,  drained  codfish,  potato  cubes  which  have  been 
cooked  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft;  then  drain.  Serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Melrose 

FROGS  A  LA  POULETTE 

12  frogs  Salt  and  pepper 

Truffles  Cayenne  and  mace 

Small  can  of  mushrooms  Garlic    if  desired 

Wine  glass  of  white  wine  1  teaspoon  cornstarch 

4  oz.  butter  1  oz.  butter 

Yolks  of  six  eggs  $  cup  cream 
1  loaf  of  bread 

Joint  the  hind  legs  and  backs  of  the  frogs;  put  in  closely  covered  saucepan 
with  the  truffles,  mushrooms  (sliced),  the  wine,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  mace 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 35 

butter  and  garlic;  stew  gently  fifteen  minutes;  if  then  tender  add  the  corn- 
starch  rubbed  in  one  ounce  of  butter;  let  cook  several  minutes;  take  from 
fire  and  stir  in  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  well  with  the  cream;  cut  crust  from  loaf 
of  bread:  scoop  out  center,  brush  with  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven;  pour 
frogs'  legs  and  sauce  into  bread-cup  and  garnish  with  truffles  and  mush- 
rooms. 

Mrs.  Eva 

MEXICAN  FRIJOLES 

Soak  two  cups  of  pink  beans  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  three  times 
as  much  water  as  there  are  beans;  add  a  small  onion  and  boil  until  tender, 
but  do  not  throw  the  liquid  away;  into  a  frying-pan  not  less  than  two  inches 
deep  put  a  large  cooking  spoon  of  fresh  lard  and  allow  it  to  become  very 
hot;  with  a  perforated  spoon  put  the  beans  free  from  liquid  gently  in  the 
frying-pan;  it  is  best  to  remove  the  pan  from  the  stove  as  the  hot  lard  may 
drop  on  it  and  catch  fire;  after  putting  in  as  many  beans  as  will  absorb  the 
lard  place  the  pan  over  a  hot  fire  and  mix  beans  and  lard  thoroughly  until 
the  beans  appear  to  have  a  coating  of  lard  and  begin  to  burst;  add  a  small 
quantity  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  beans  were  boiled  and  gently  crush  them 
but  do  not  mash;  add  the  remainder  of  the  liquid  and  allow  it  to  simmer 
for  about  half  an  hour  or  until  the  beans  are  of  the  right  consistency  either 
quite  liquid  or  quite  dry.  Success  depends  upon  observing  the  following 
rules: 

Do  not  add  salt  until  the  beans  are  boiled  soft.  The  onion  is  not  perceptible 
after  cooking,  only  giving  the  beans  a  characteristic  Mexican  taste  which  no 
spice  can  produce.  Have  the  lard  at  smoking  point.  Do  not  throw  away 
the  liquid  in  which  the  beans  were  soaked  over  night.  Mexican  Chili  may 
be  added  if  desired.  May  be  warmed  over  several  times. 

Mrs.  Walling 


BREADED  LAMB  CHOPS  WITH  STUFFED  TOMATOES 

French  chops  Melted  butter 

Bread  crumbs  Few  drops  of  lemon  juice 

Tomatoes  Minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper 

Select  tender  chops  one  inch  thick;  remove  all  extra  fat,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  cover  with  sifted  bread-crumbs,  lay  on  a  rack  in  baking  pan;  for 
each  chop  take  one  ripe  firm  tomato,  remove  the  stem,  cut  a  small  circle 
off  the  top,  scoop  out  a  little  of  the  inside;  fill  the  cavity  with  a  little  of  the 


36  RECIPES  OF  THE 


bread-crumb;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  lemon  juice,  minced  parsley  and 
melted  butter;  cover  with  the  circle  cut  off;  place  a  tomato  on  each  chop 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Marks 

SCALLOPED  LOBSTER  OR  CRAB 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  baking  dish  with  bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of 
lobster  or  crab;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  fill  dish  alternately;  put  the 
crumbs  on  top  with  pieces  of  butter  and  moisten  with  milk.  Oysters  may 
be  used  in  the  same  way  and  covered  with  their  own  juice. 

Mrs.  Usher 

STUFFED  BELL  PEPPERS 

1  cup  raw  rice  \  teaspoon  red  pepper 

2  cups  Hamburg  steak  Few  slices  of  onion 

3  cups  tomatoes  Butter 
1  tablespoon  salt  Salt 

Cut  out  the  stem  end  and  the  seeds  of  the  peppers;  fill  with  this  mixture 
and  place  open  end  down  in  dish  deep  enough  to  fill  with  water  nearly  to 
top  of  peppers ;  put  few  slices  of  onion  and  lumps  of  butter  on  tops  of  peppers ; 
add  more  water  as  it  dries  out;  bake  one  hour  or  cover  tightly  and  simmer 
on  top  of  stove.  Canned  tomatoes  may  be  used  for  this  and  about  twenty- 
five  cents  worth  of  Hamburg  steak  is  required. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Brown 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

1  cup  cold  chopped  meat  Salt 

\  cup  bread-crumbs  Pepper 

1  onion  Tomato  catsup  or  Chili  sauce 

1  tablespoon  of  butter 

To  the  chopped  meat  add  the  crumbs  and  the  onion  browned  in  the  butter; 
stir  altogether,  seasoning  with  the  salt,  pepper  and  catsup;  a  little  hot  water 
may  be  needed  to  moisten;  cut  tops  from  peppers,  take  out  seeds,  wash, 
fill  with  prepared  meat,  put  on  tops  and  bake  for  about  one-half  hour  with  a 
little  water  in  the  pan;  baste  often. 

Mrs.  Stratum 

STUFFED  PIMENTOS 

Make  a  rich  and  highly  seasoned  bread-crumb  dressing,  as  for  chicken 
or  turkey;  fill  pimentos  with  this  dressing,  putting  a  lump  of  butter  on  top 
of  each;  place  in  ramekins,  pouring  around  a  cream  tomato  sauce  and  bake 
for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Miss  Waggoner 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEQ 37 

RICE  (American) 

3  slices  bacon  \  can  tomatoes  or  same 

2  onions  quantity  fresh 

2  tablespoons  parsley  l£  cup  rice,  washed  and  well  drained 

Parboil  the  bacon,  put  through  meat  chopper  with  onions;  fry  bacon, 
onions  and  parsley;  add  rice  and  stir  constantly  until  kernels  commence  to 
brown,  then  add  tomatoes;  if  cooking  too  dry  add  water  from  time  to  time. 

RICE  (Italian) 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  \  can  tomatoes  or  same  quantity 
1  tablespoon  butter  fresh 

1  clove  garlic  (large)  H  CUPS  rice>  washed  and  well 

Grated  cheese  (Parmesan)  drained 

Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste 

Put  oil,  garlic  and  seasoning  in  frying-pan;  when  hot  add  rice  and  stir 
well  until  kernels  commence  to  brown;  then  add  tomatoes  and  little  hot 
water;  if  this  should  cook  too  dry  add  a  little  water,  but  do  not  get  it  too  moist; 
before  serving  add  butter;  serve  with  grated  cheese  on  top. 

RICE  (Spanish) 

3  tablespoons  oil  or  red  lard  \\  cups  rice,  washed  and  drained 
\  can  tomatoes  or  same  quantity  well 

fresh  Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste 

Cook  the  same  as  Italian  Rice.  Red  lard  for  Spanish  cooking  is  prepared 
as  follows:  chop  fine  dry  Chili  peppers  and  stew  in  lard. 

Miss  Louise  G.  Daly 

SEASONING  FOR  NOODLES,  MACCARONI,  RICE  OR 
SPAGHETTI  (French,  Italian  or  Spanish  style) 

\  cup  butter  A  sprig  of  rosemary 

^  cup  of  olive  oil  or  1  cup  butter  \  cup  mushrooms,  either  fresh  or 

1  small  onion  dry 

4  or  5  tablespoons  parsley  4  or  5  large  tomatoes 
\  green  pepper  Salt  and  pepper 

2  Ibs.  maccaroni,  spaghetti,  noodles  or  2  cups  rice 

Boil  either  the  rice  or  the  paste  in  salted  water  (using  the  proportion  of 
four  to  one)  twenty-five  minutes;  rinse  in  cold  water  and  drain,  after  which 
stir  in  the  sauce  lightly  or  put  in  baking  dish  in  layers  and  sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese  and  bake  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  a  little  cream  or  condensed 
milk  added  before  baking  will  improve  it;  a  clove  of  garlic  is  sometimes  an 


58  RECIPES  OF  THE 


agreeable  addition.  The  sauce  is  made  by  heating  the  olive  oil  or  butter  in 
a  heavy  frying-pan  and  adding  the  onion,  parsley,  green  pepper,  mushrooms 
and  tomatoes  (all  chopped  fine);  simmer  for  at  least  three-fourths  of  an  hour; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  if  for  Spanish  rice  add  the  cayenne 
pepper,  also  half  a  teaspoon  of  Grandma's  Spanish  pepper.  Either  the 
fresh  or  the  dry  mushrooms  may  be  used;  if  dry,  soak  a  few  moments  in  a 
cup  of  boiling  water;  save  this  water  to  be  used  for  the  sauce  later,  or,  the 
mushrooms  may  be  omitted  entirely.  Very  wholesome  and  satisfying  for 
the  Lenten  season. 

Mrs.  Ogborn 

SPAGHETTI  (Spanish) 

£  package  of  spaghetti  4  little  red  Chili  peppers 

\  bottle  stuffed  olives  2  cloves  garlic 

1  coffee  cup  dry  mushrooms  1  cupful  cold  chicken  or  veal  cut 

soaked  over  night  in  pieces 

\  fresh  green  pepper  3  fresh  tomatoes 

1  tablespoon  butter  Pepper  and  salt 

Mix  altogether,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  until  spaghetti  is  tender; 
add  more  butter,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.  McCullom 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI 

2  cups  water  J  package  spaghetti  (cooked) 

£  Ib.  cheese  1  can  Campbell's  plain  tomato 

1  teaspoon  sage  soup 

In  a  double  boiler  put  tomato  soup  and  two  cups  of  water,  the  cheese 
and  the  sage,  and  cook  until  the  cheese  is  dissolved  (about  a  half  an  hour) 
stirring  frequently;  add  the  cooked  spaghetti  which  has  been  drained,  and 
serve  immediately. 

Italian  Cfwf 

TONGUE  WITH  OLIVES 

2  tablespoons  butter  2   tablespoons   minced   green 
2  tablespoons  flour  peppers 

1  pt.  soup  stock  2J  doz.  stoned  olives 

2  cups  diced  tongue  1  tablespoon  Kitchen  Bouquet 

Brown  the  butter;  add  the  flour  and  the  stock  and  stir  until  thick;  put  the 
diced  tongue  in  a  casserole  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it;  season  with  salt  and 
add  the  minced  peppers,  the  stoned  olives  and  the  Kitchen  Bouquet;  cover 
tightly  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes;  serve  from  the 
casserole  or  baking  pan. 

Mrs.  Trowbridge 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 89 

STUFFED  PEPPERS  OR  TOMATOES 

Fry  some  calves  liver  to  a  light  brown;  put  this  through  a  grinder  until 
you  have  one  cupful ;  add  one  scant  cup  of  cold  rice,  corn  cut  from  two  ears, 
one  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  three  green  onions,  one  large  tomato  one 
green  pepper  (not  the  seeds)  and  a  little  celery;  put  all  through  the  meat 
chopper  again  and  add  salt  and  an  egg.  If  it  is  quite  dry  add  some  stock; 
fill  peppers,  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each,  then  some  cracker  crumbs 
and  bake. 

Mrs.  W.  Anderson 

FISH  ENTREE 

15c  worth  halibut  Paprika 

2  tablespoons  butter  Green  peppers 

2  tablespoons  flour  A  few  green  onions  or 

Juice  of  1  can  tomatoes  1  dry  onion 

Liquor  of  25c  worth  small  oysters  Parsley  (chopped) 

1  can  French  mushrooms  1  small  glass  whiskey 

Worcestershire  sauce  15c  worth  shrimps 
Swiss  cheese 

Cook  the  halibut  for  five  minutes,  melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  then  the 
juice  of  the  tomatoes  and  the  oysters,  then  the  mushrooms,  Worcestershire 
sauce,  paprika,  green  peppers,  onions  and  parsley;  now  add  the  whiskey, 
oysters,  fish  and  shrimps;  cook  together  three  or  four  minutes.  Put  in  rame- 
skins  with  the  grated  Swiss  cheese  on  top  and  set  in  water  in  oven,  breaking 
until  brown  (about  twenty  minutes). 

Mrs.  Max  Brown 

SALMON  IN  TIMBALES 

1  Ib.  salmon,  boiled  until  tender  1  teaspoon  salt 
12  almonds  chopped  very  fine          1  teaspoon  white  pepper 
1  teaspoon  onion  juice  Whites  of  three  eggs 

\  pt.  whipped  cream 

Remove  skin,  bone  from  fish,  and  pound  until  in  a  paste  form;  add  the 
almond,  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper,  then  the  unbeaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  the  whipped  cream;  put  in  moulds  or  timbale  cases  and  bake  twenty 

minutes,  or  until  delicately  brown. 

Mrs.  Scott 

LIVER  A  LA  TERRAPIN 

Boil  one  pound  of  lamb  or  veal  liver  until  tender;  drain  and  when  cold 
cut  in  small  pieces;  mash  the  yolks  of  three  hard -cooked  eggs  and  add  to 


40  RECIPES  OF  THE 


them  one-half  cup  cream;  melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  stir  until  creamed;  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  cream  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  add  liver,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cook  until  thor- 
oughly heated  and  add  one  glass  of  sherry.  Serve  immediately  with  or  with- 
out toast. 

Mrs.  Scott 

CODFISH  PUDDING 

3  tablespoons  rice,  boiled  soft  in  3  eggs 

milk  (about  a  quart)  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  shredded  codfish  picked  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
very  fine 

Take  one  cup  of  the  boiled  rice,  mix  well  with  a  cup  of  the  shredded  cod- 
fish, the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  all  well  together  and  bake  in  a  pudding 
dish  about  twenty  minutes.  It  should  be  almost  as  light  as  souffle. 


MEAT  SOUFFLE 

Make  one  cup  of  cream  sauce;  season  with  chopped  parsley  and  onion 
juice  or  omit  the  parsley  and  use  finely  chopped  onion;  stir  one  cup  of  chopped 
meat  (veal,  lamb  or  chicken)  into  the  sauce  while  hot;  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  cook  one  minute  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cool  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  about  twenty 
minutes  and  serve  immediately;  make  the  sauce  rather  thin  with  cream  so 
the  souffle  will  not  be  stiff  and  dry. 


EGGS  WITH  CRAB 

Poach  the  eggs  (as  many  as  there  are  people);  place  them  on  a  platter; 
break  up  the  crab  meat  into  a  thick  cream  gravy  and  pour  this  over  and 
around  the  eggs;  sprinkle  well  with  crumbs;  put  a  potato  frill  around  the 
edge  of  the  dish  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Eastern 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  41 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

1  heaping  cup  corn  meal  2  cups  sweet  milk 

1  heaping  cup  rye  meal  1  cup  sour  milk 

I  1  heaping  cup  graham  meal  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda 

f  t  cups  molasses  1  heaping  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together,  add  the  sweet  milk,  molasses  and  sour  milk, 
in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved;  beat  thoroughly  and  fill  baking  powder 
cans  two-thirds  full;  place  in  kettle  of  cold  water  which  reaches  about  half 
the  height  of  the  can,  and  boil  from  two  to  three  hours,  according  to  size 
of  can.  This  recipe  will  never  fail.  An  old-fashioned  pudding  is  made  by 
adding  currants  or  raisins  if  liked,  and  serving  warm  with  a  sauce  made  of 
thick  sour  cream,  sweetened  and  seasoned  with  nutmeg,  or  butter  and  sugar 
and  nutmeg  whipped  to  a  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Brown 

SOUTHERN  BEATEN  BISCUIT 

To  one  quart  of  sifted  flour  add  a  half  a  teacup  of  lard  and  one  teaspoon 
salt;  mix  with  three-fourths  of  a  teacup  sweet  milk;  work  very  hard  or  grind 
through  meat  chopper  ten  or  twelve  times,  or  until  it  blisters  and  bubbles; 
roll,  cut  and  prick  with  a  fork.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Morse 

QUICK  COFFEE  CAKE 

Sift  together  twice,  one  cupful  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  three  level 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  this  into  a  soft  dough 
with  four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  a  well  beaten  egg  and  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk.  Spread  in  a  shallow  pan  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  F.  L.  0. 

CORN  BREAD  WITH  RICE 

\  pt.  cold  boiled  rice  1  teaspoon  lard 

\  pt.  white  Indian  meal  1  teaspoon  brown  sugar 

1  teaspoon  butter  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

1  egg  powder 

Salt 
Sufficient  sweet  milk  added  to  make  it  like  a  sponge  for  bread 

Mix  rice  with  a  little  milk  until  smooth.  Scald  corn-meal  with  enough 
boiling  water  to  moisten  it;  add  rice,  butter,  salt  and  lard,  sugar  and  egg 


42  RECIPES  OF  THE 


well  beaten  and  rest  of  milk;  beat  well  and  add  baking  powder;  beat  thorough- 
ly.   Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  that  keeps  the  batter  one  inch  thick.    Bake 

half  hour. 

Mrs.  Shuman 
CORN  MUFFINS 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  melted  butter 

£  cup  corn  meal  3  even  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  egg  well  beaten,  the  milk  and  butter, 
and  bake  in  muffin  pans  twenty-five  minutes. 

INDIAN  GEMS 

1  pt.  Indian  meal  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  flour  f  cup  molasses 

1  pt.  sour  milk  1  egg 

Mix  the  Indian  meal  and  flour  together;  add  molasses,  egg  well  beaten 
and  sour  milk  in  which  the  soda  has'been  dissolved;  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 

NUT  BREAD 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  4  tablespoons  New  Orleans  molasses 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  2  cups  chopped  nuts 

J  cup  luke  warm  water  4  cups  whole  wheat  flour 

Pour  boiling  water  on  milk;  when  luke  warm  add  dissolved  yeast  cake, 
salt  and  flour;  beat  thoroughly,  cover  and  let  rise  until  doubled  in  bulk; 
add  molasses  and  nuts  (either  pecan  or  walnuts)  and  about  one  cup  of  flour. 
Beat  thoroughly,  turn  into  buttered  pans;  let  rise  one  hour  and  bake  one 
hour. 

ROLLED  OATS  BREAD 

1  cup  rolled  oats  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

2  cups  boiling  water  ^  cup  luke  warm  water 
1  teaspoon  salt                                   J  cup  molasses 

4  cups  flour 

Add  boiling  water  to  the  oats;  when  luke  warm  add  salt,  dissolved  yeast, 
one-third  of  a  cup  of  molasses  and  flour.  Beat  thoroughly  and  let  rise  three 
hours.  Beat  again,  add  a  little  more  flour  if  necessary  and  turn  into  buttered 
pans;  let  rise  one  hour  and  bake  one  hour.  Do  not  attempt  to  handle  it 
though,  as  it  is  very  soft  and  sticky. 

M.  R.  T. 


_; WOMAN'S  CLUE  OF  SAN  MATEO 48 

POPOVERS 

Beat  well  two  eggs;  then  add  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  sifted  flour,  a  little 
salt;  beat  well  and  strain;  bake  in  popover  pans  in  a  quick  oven  twenty 
minutes. 

Mrs.  Andrews 

GERMAN  PUFFS 

One  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs  beaten  together,  six  heaping  tablespoons 
flour,  four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  salt;  cook  thirty  minutes  in  gem  pans. 
This  recipe  makes  eighteen. 

Mrs.  J.  Levy 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
2  tablespoons  sugar  J  cup  luke  warm  water 

Flour 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk;  when  luke  warm  add  dissolved  yeast 
cake  and  three  cups  flour;  beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  rise  for  two  hours. 
Cut  down  and  add  enough  flour  to  knead  (it  will  take  about  two  and  one- 
half  cups);  let  rise  again,  for  two  hours,  toss  on  slightly  floured  board,  knead, 
pat  and  roll  out  one-third  inch  thickness;  shape  with  biscuit  cutter  first 
dipped  in  flour.  Dip  the  handle  of  a  case-knife  in  flour  and  with  it  make 
a  crease  through  the  middle  of  each  piece;  brush  over  one-half  of  each  piece 
with  melted  butter,  fold  and  press  edges  together;  place  in  greased  pans  one 
inch  apart,  cover,  let  rise  and  bake  in  hot  oven  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes. 
As  rolls  rise  they  will  part  slightly  and  if  hastened  in  rising  are  apt  to  lose 
their  shape. 

Parker  House  rolls  may  be  shaped  by  cutting  or  tearing  off  small  pieces  of 
dough  and  shaping  round  like  a  biscuit.  Place  in  rows  on  floured  board; 
cover  and  let  rise  fifteen  minutes;  with  handle  of  large  wooden  spoon  or 
toy  rolling  pin  roll  through  center  of  each  biscuit;  brush  edge  of  lower  halves 
with  melted  butter,  fold,  press  lightly,  place  in  buttered  pans  one  inch  apart; 
cover  let  rise  and  bake.  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book 

EGG  ROLLS 

4  tablespoons  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  pt.  flour  1  egg 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  \  cup  milk 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  the  baking  powder,  salt,  and  egg,  beaten 
until  light;  then  add  the  milk  and  mix  lightly;  roll  out  on  floured  board; 


44  RECIPES  OF  THE 


cut  into  oblong  pieces,  and  with  a  floured  knife  make  a  deep  crease  through 
the  center  of  each  roll;  brush  over  top  with  egg  white  and  sprinkle  with  gran- 
ulated sugar;  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  S. 


WAFFLES 

Three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  three  eggs  beaten  well,  one  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  teaspoons  melted  butter;  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk.  Beat  all  well 
together  and  lastly  add  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Heat 
the  waffle-iron,  grease  on  both  sides,  put  a  spoonful  of  batter  in  each  section 
and  when  one  side  is  brown  turn  the  other  side.  Serve  with  syrup  or  fruit. 

Mrs.  Seibert 


BREAKFAST  MUFFINS 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 
1  cup  sweet  milk  powder 

1^  cups  flour  Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  the  beaten  egg  in  milk  and  the 
melted  butter;  place  in  well  greased  muffin  pans  and  bake  fifteen  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Hammatt 

SOFT  CORN  BREAD 

1  cup  white  corn  meal  1^  cups  boiling  water 

1  cup  boiled  rice  3  or  4  eggs,  beaten  separately 

1  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  corn  meal;  add  the  rice  and  milk,  beaten 
yolks,  butter  and  salt;  fold  in  the  beaten  whites;  pour  into  a  buttered  pudding 
dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  The  top  should 
be  well  browned. 

Mrs.  Boston 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  45 


preafc 


PEACOCK  FAMILY  FLOUR 

Of  late  years  tremendous  strides  have  been  made  in  the  manufacture 
of  Flour.  Modern  machinery  has  cut  an  important  figure  and  modern 
means  of  transportation  have  enabled  the  miller  to  obtain  Wheat  from 
all  parts  of  the  country,  whereas,  a  few  years  ago  he  had  to  depend 
on  the  Wheat  grown  in  his  own  particular  locality.  To  get  the  very 
best  results  it  requires  a  blending  of  several  different  grades  of  Wheat — 
some  for  their  gluten  and  strength,  others  for  their  color.  In  the  manu- 
facture of  our  PEACOCK  FLOUR  we  use  only  the  finest  grade  of  Wheat 
procurable,  using  a  special  process  of  our  own,  and  we  unhesitatingly 
claim  that  this  Flour  is  the  superior  of  any  other  in  the  market. 

Nothing  is  so  disappointing  as  a  poor  batch  of  bread;  but  this  Is 
impossible  if  Peacock  Flour  is  used.  We  feel  satisfied  that  if  tried  once 
no  other  Flour  will  ever  be  taken,  as  a  substitute. 

Manufactured  by 
DEL  MONTE  MILLING  CO.,  San  Francisco 


46  RECIPES  OF  THE 


Cakes  anb  Cake  Jf tilings 

ANGEL  FOOD 

Whites  of  9  eggs  1J  cups  sifted  granulated  sugar 

\  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  flour  sifted  five  times 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  add  the  cream  of  tartar  when  about  hah* 
beaten  and  continue  beating  until  very,  very  stiff;  fold  in  slowly  the  sugar 
and  the  flour;  flavor  with  the  vanilla;  pour  into  smooth,  ungreased  pan  and 
bake  about  fifty  minutes  in  a  very  moderate  oven.  Turn  upside  down  on 
rests  to  cool. 

Mrs.  Dennett 

ANISE  CAKES 

4  eggs  l£  cups  sugar 

2  cups  flour  A  few  drops  aniseed  oil 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  half  an  hour;  add  the  flour  and  beat  ten  minutes 
more;  add  the  aniseed  oil  and  leave  over  night  before  baking. 

Mrs.  Ferd.  Levy 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  raisins 

£  cup  butter,  melted  2  cups  flour 

l£  cups  strained  apple  sauce  2  level  teaspoons  soda 

Spices  to  taste 

Sift  the  soda  with  the  flour  and  mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named, 
and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Goodhue 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  J  teaspoon  salt 

8  tablespoons  chocolate  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1§  cups  flour 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  Boiled  frosting 

Rub  together  yolks  and  chocolate;  add  half  milk  and  cook  in  double  boiler 
until  smooth,  stirring  constantly;  add  the  other  ingredients  cooked  in  two 
layers  and  put  together  with  the  boiled  frostings. 

Mrs.  Fisher 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 47 

SOUR  CREAM  CAKE 

1  egg  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sugar  \  teaspoon  clove 

1  tablespoon  butter  A  little  nutmeg 

1  cup  sour  cream  2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  raisins 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  cream  and  mix  in  the  order  given;  bake  in  a  loaf 
forty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  Warn 
CREAM  PUFFS 

1  cup  flour  \  Ib.  butter 
f  cup  water                                        5  eggs 

Filling 

Heat  the  water  and  add  the  butter  and  salt;  when  this  boils  stir  in  the  flour; 
beat  until  there  are  no  lumps  and  cook  until  the  mixture  leaves  the  side  of 
the  saucepan;  allow  it  to  cool;  when  nearly  cold  add  the  unbeaten  eggs  one 
at  a  time;  beat  in  each  one  thoroughly  before  adding  the  next.  After  adding 
all,  cover  the  mixture  and  let  it  stand  for  an  hour;  when  ready  to  bake  drop 
it  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins,  leaving  two  or  three  inches  space  between; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  They  should  feel  dry  and 
crisp  to  the  touch.  When  cold  split  and  fill  with  whipped  cream.  If  desired, 
they  can  be  fried  in  deep  fat  like  doughnuts.  If  you  intend  frying  them  use 
only  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time.  This  makes  eighteen  cream  puffs. 

Mrs.  G.  Grader 

Note :  An  agreeable  variety  can  be  made  by  whipping  half  a  pint  of  cream 
until  very  stiff,  then  adding  a  cupful  of  preserved  pineapple,  both  the  liquid 
and  fruit  if  the  liquid  is  quite  thick;  otherwise  put  in  only  the  fruit.  If  it 
is  desired  any  sweeter  add  powdered  sugar  to  taste.  Do  not  fill  the  cream 
puffs  until  just  before  serving. 

M.  R.  T. 

POTATO  CARAMEL  CAKE 

§  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  boiled  and  sifted  potatoes  2  oz.  chocolate  melted  over  warm 
4  eggs,  well  beaten  water 

£  cup  sweet  milk  1  cup  walnuts  chopped 

1  teaspoon  each,  cloves  and  \  teaspoon  nutmeg 
cinnamon 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  while  still  hot  the  potato,  then 
the  eggs,  well  beaten,  the  milk,  and  the  flour  in  which  the  baking  powder 
has  been  sifted,  and  the  chocolate,  the  walnuts,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Bake  in  a  sheet  two  inches  thick. 


48  RECIPES  OF  THE 


FROSTING  FOR  POTATO  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  £  cup  milk 

1  oz.  butter 

Boil  the  sugar  and  milk  for  fifteen  minutes;  add  the  butter,  cool  a  little 
and  beat  until  it  thickens;  spread  quickly  on  the  cake  while  both  are  warm. 

Mrs.  Gracier 

DAINTY  CUP  CAKES 

2  eggs  ^  cup  milk 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter  l£  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  small  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Pinch  of  salt 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  butter  and  sugar  and  stir  to  a  cream;  add  other 
ingredients  and  mix  well;  bake  in  muffin  pan  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  Finger 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
SYRUP 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoon  boiling  water 

1  cup  boiling  water 

Put  sugar  and  the  tablespoon  of  boiling  water  into  a  spider  and  stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved,  and  boil  until  it  smokes  (it  must  burn);  remove  from  fire 
and  pour  in  gradually  a  cup  of  boiling  water;  stir  rapidly  and  allow  to  boil 
until  as  thick  as  molasses.  Bottle  for  use. 

CAKE 

£  cup  butter  3  tablespoons  caramel 

l£  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  ^  cup  sifted  flour 

1  cup  water  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sifted  flour  Whites  of  two  eggs 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream ;  add  gradually  the  sugar,  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
the  water  and  two  cups  of  flour;  beat  about  five  minutes,  then  add  the  caramel, 
vanilla  and  the  half  cup  of  flour  in  which  has  been  sifted,  the  baking  powder. 
Fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  bake  in  layers. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 49 

FILLING  AND  FROSTING 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  of  two  eggs 

J  cup  of  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  teaspoons  caramel 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a  thread ;  pour  slowly  onto  the  well- 
beaten  whites  and  beat  until  cool;  add  the  vanilla  and  caramel. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Warn 

DEVIL  CAKE 

5  eggs,  separated  3  squares  chocolate,  melted 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

J  cup  butter  £  teaspoon  baking  powder 

\  cup  milk 
Bake  in  layers. 

FILLING 

1  doz.  figs,  washed,  dried  and  \  cup  cream 

chopped  Chocolate  icing 

\  cup  chopped  walnuts  \  cup  chopped  almonds 

Whip  the  cream,  fold  in  the  other  ingredients,  spread  between  the  layers 
with  a  plain  chocolate  icing. 


Mrs.  Marks 


DEVIL  CAKE 


£  cup  butter  \  cup  hot  coffee 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2^  cups  flour 

\  cup  chocolate  Whites  of  two  eggs 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

\  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given;  stir  well  and  bake  in  four  layers. 

FILLING 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  cup  brown  sugar  Teaspoon  vanilla 

Water  sufficient  to  dissolve  the  sugar 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  butter  until  it  spins  a  thread;  remove  from  fire  and 
when  almost  cool  beat  and  add  the  vanilla.  By  adding  a  half  cup  of  chocolate 
a  nice  chocolate  filling  is  made. 

Mrs,  Wilson 


50  RECIPES  OF  THE 


FRIED  CAKES 

1  cuprsour  milk  A  little  nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  butter  A  little  salt 

2  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

1  small  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  milk 

Mix  soft  and  boil  in  hot  lard. 

3/m  Velma  Warn 

FUDGE  LAYER  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

§  cup  butter  sifted  with 

1  cup  milk  2£  cups  flour 

J  cup  chocolate  ^  cup  walnuts 

3  eggs  beaten  separately 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter;  add  the  milk,  the  flour,  chocolate,  walnuts 
and  lastly  the  eggs;  bake  in  four  layers. 

FILLING 

£  tablespoon  butter  lj  cups  sugar 

J  cup  chocolate  ^  cup  milk 

J  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  the  butter  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  stir  into  it  the  chocolate,  sugar, 
milk  and  boil  ten  minutes;  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  creamy; 
add  the  vanilla  and  spread  on  the  layers. 

Mrs.  Usher 

FUDGE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  2^  cups  flour 

§  cup  butter  J  cup  grated  chocolate 

3  eggs  \  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  milk  1  even  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  milk,  baking- 
powder  and  flour  sifted  together;  dissolve  chocolate  in  a  little  hot  water  and 
add  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  nuts. 

ICING 

1J  teaspoons  butter  1J  cups  brown  sugar 

1  cup  chocolate  \  cup  milk 

Boil  seven  minutes  or  until  it  spins  a  thread,  then  beat  a  little  until  creamy; 
the  above  cake  is  baked  in  a  loaf. 

Mrs.  Nisbet 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 51 

GINGERBREAD 

1  cup  molasses  ^  cup  butter 

J  cup  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  teaspoons  ginger  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  cups  flour  (measured  before 

2  eggs  (unbeaten)  sifting). 

Be  sure  and  mix  in  order  given;  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  and  if  batter  seems 
thin  do  not  add  more  flour. 

Mrs.  Stratton 

OLD  FASHIONED  GINGERBREAD 

£  cup  butter  1  cup  molasses 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  sour  cream 

2  tablespoons  ginger  4  cups  sifted  flour 
J  tablespoon  cloves  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  level  tablespoons  soda  dissolved 

2  eggs  in  1  cup  boiling  water 

Mix  in  order  named,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour  in  a  large  paper- 
lined  pan. 

Mrs.  F.  L.  O. 


\  cup  butter  4  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  \  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  cup  milk  Whites  of  two  eggs 

1  qt.  huckleberries 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  milk; 
mix  the  flour,  soda  and  salt  and  add  to  this  mixture;  then  fold  in  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Mix  two  tablespoons  of  flour  with  the  huckleberries 
and  add  to  the  batter,  stirring  lightly  so  as  not  to  break  the  berries.  Bake  in 

a|hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Emerson 

LOAF  CAKE 

1£  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

i  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Mix  in  the  order  given  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

BOILED  FROSTING 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  10  tablespoons  water 
Whites  of  two  eggs                           Vanilla 


52  RECIPES  OF  THE 


Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a  thread,  then  pour  gradually  on  to 
whites  and  beat  until  it  is  nearly  cool;  add  vanilla  and  spread  at  once 
upon  the  cake. 

Mrs.  Eckley 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE 

\  cup  butter  2  cups  flour,  sifted  with 

\\  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

\  cup  milk  \  teaspoon  vanilla 
Whites  of  five  eggs 

Beat  butter  to  cream  and  gradually  beat  into  it  the  sugar  and  vanilla;  add 
milk  and  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  then  the  flour;  bake  in 
three  layers. 

FILLING 

\\  cups  sugar  Whites  of  2  eggs 

f  cup  water  Half  pound  of  marshmallows 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  till  it  spins  a  thread;  just  before  taking  from  the 
fire  put  in  the  marshmallows  and  pour  this  mixture  on  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  beat  until  cold  enough  to  spread.  By  using  pink  marsh- 
mallows  it  makes  a  very  pretty  cake. 

Mrs.  Sneider 

MELTED  BUTTER  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  £  cup  sweet  milk 

2  eggs  1  cup  flour,  (rounded) 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Flavoring 

Sift  the  baking  powder  into  the  flour,  mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  together; 
add  the  beaten  egg,  the  milk  and  the  melted  butter;  bake  in  loaf  or  in  layers 
in  a  moderate  oven.  ^ 

Mrs.  Shoup 

MERINGUE  FOR  KISSES 

Whites  of  4  eggs  8  tablespoons  sugar 

Vanilla 

Beat  well  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  very  stiff;  add  the  sugar,  a  tablespoon 
at  a  time,  then  the  vanilla;  bake  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  cool 
oven. 

CHOCOLATE  KISSES 

3  whites  of  eggs  1  cup  ground  chocolate 

1  cup  sugar 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 53 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff;  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  the 
chocolate,  and  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Ferd.  Levy 

NUT  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1J  cups  flour 

£  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  eggs 

Mix  in  the  order  given  and  bake  slowly  one  hour. 


Mrs.  H.  Warn 


NUT  CAKE 


2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

§  cup  butter  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  milk  Whites  of  five  eggs 

3 J  cups  flour,  sifted  before  meas-  Vanilla 
uring 

Mix  the  nuts  with  one-half  cup  of  the  flour;  mix  in  the  order  named, 
adding  the  whites  of  the  eggs  at  the  last;  flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla; 
bake  in  buttered  pan  about  one  hour. 


Mrs.  Stratton 


WALNUT  CREAM  CAKE 


4  eggs  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  sugar  3  cups  sifted  flour 

6  tablespoons  melted  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  the  milk,  flour, 
baking-powder  and  vanilla;  bake  in  four  large  layer  cake  pans. 

FILLING 

2  cups  milk  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut 

2  tablespoons  corn-starch  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

\  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Boil  the  milk  and  sugar,  then  add  the  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little 
water,  the  butter  and  the  eggs;  cook  in  a  double  boiler  fifteen  minutes.  Cool 
a  little  and  flavor  with  the  vanilla,  then  add  the  walnuts;  spread  between 
the  layers.  Ice  with  boiled  icing. 


54  RECIPES  OF  THE 


BOILED  ICING 

1  cup  sugar  White  of  one  egg 
6  tablespoons  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Stir  the  sugar  and  water  together  and  boil  until  it  spins  a  thread  from  the 
spoon,  but  do  not  stir  while  boiling;  then  pour  the  hot  syrup  gradually  on  to 
the  beaten  white  of  the  egg;  beat  until  cool  and  quite  thick;  then  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Casey 

ORANGE  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk  Whites  of  4  eggs 

Vanilla 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  with  the  hand  until  soft;  add  the  milk  little 
by  little  and  the  flour  in  which  has  been  sifted  the  baking  powder,  then  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  the  vanilla;  bake  in  two  square  layer 
cake  pans. 

ORANGE  ICING 

Grate  a  large-sized  orange,  then  cut  the  orange  cross-wise;  take  out  the 
pulp  of  the  orange  with  a  pointed  knife  and  squeeze  the  orange  to  get  all 
the  juice;  add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  and  as  much  powdered  sugar  as 
is  needed  to  make  a  very  stiff  icing.  As  soon  as  the  cake  is  done,  spread 
the  icing  on  the  hot  cake,  top  and  sides. 

Mrs.  Mdrose 

ORANGE  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  f  cups  orange  juice 

\  cup  butter  Grated  rind  of  half  an  orange 

Yolks  of  three  eggs  2  cups  flour 

Whites  of  3  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  in  the  order  given,  using  only  one-half  of  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
saving  other  half  for  frosting;  bake  in  layer  cake  tins. 

FILLING 

1  orange  Yolk  1  egg 

2  apples  grated  \  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scoop  out  the  pulp  of  the  orange  with  a  spoon;  add  the  apple,  the  sugar, 
and  the  egg;  bring  to  a  boil  and  when  cool  place  between  the  layer,  using 
boiled  frosting  for  top  and  sides. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 55 

FROSTING 

Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  a  cup  of  water  to  a  thread ;  add  to  the 
remaining  whites  of  eggs;  add  flavoring  and  spread  on  the  cake. 

Mrs.  Brady 

POTATO  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  \  cup  milk 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  ground  chocolate 
Yolks  of  4  eggs  1  cup  walnuts  chopped 
2  cups  flour  Beaten  whites  4  eggs 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  without    1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon, 
salt  cloves  and  nutmeg 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  together  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs; 
the  flour,  mashed  potato,  milk,  chocolate,  walnuts,  spices,  baking  powder 
and  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  forty- 
five  to  sixty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Lazarus 

CUP  POUND  CAKE 

1  cup  creamed  butter  l£  cups  sugar  beaten  with  the  eggs 

1^  cups  flour  creamed  with  the  f  teaspoon  baking  powder 

butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  eggs  beaten  very  light 

Mix  a  little  at  a  time  sugar  and  eggs  with  the  butter  and  flour;  beat  until 
well  blended;  add  the  vanilla  and  the  baking  powder;  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Ferd.  Levy 

SPICE  CAKE 

1^  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

£  cup  butter  \  a  nutmeg 

J  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  chopped  raisins  1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Flour  sufficient  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter  and  bake  in  loaf  tins  about 

three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Finger 


56  RECIPES  OF  THE 


MOCHA  SPONGE  CAKE 

Ij  cups  granulated  sugar  l£  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  eggs  ^  cup  boiling  water 

l£  cups  flour  Flavor  to  taste 

Beat  sugar  and  eggs  together  for  five  minutes;  add  three-fourths  of  a  cup 
of  flour  well  sifted  and  mix  thoroughly;  then  add  remaining  flour  with  baking 
powder  sifted  into  it;  mix  again;  add  the  flavoring  and  lastly  the  hot  water, 
pouring  in  slowly  at  first  and  stirring  at  the  same  time.  The  batter  will  be 
quite  thin.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  light  brown  on  top. 

FILLING 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  chocolate  (ground) 

1  cup  butter  (washed)  3  tablespoons  hot  strong  coffee 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  chocolate  and  vanilla;  lastly  add  the  hot 
coffee  little  by  little  to  prevent  curdling.  More  coffee  may  be  needed. 


Mrs.  Nisbet 


STRAWBERRY  CAKE 


1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter,  melted 

1  cup  flour  Yolk  of  one  egg 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  Milk 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  put  into  a  cup  two  eggs  and  one  yolk;  fill 
cup  with  milk  and  add  to  the  sugar  and  butter;  then  add  the  flour  in  which 
the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted;  beat  thoroughly  and  bake  in  layers 
fifteen  minutes. 

FILLING 

White  of  1  egg  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  strawberries 
Put  together  and  beat  until  stiff  and  creamy. 

Mrs.  Koop 

SUNSHINE  CAKE 

Whites  of  7  eggs  1  cup  flour 

Yolks  of  5  eggs  J  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

1J  cups  granulated  sugar  A  pinch  of  salt 

Flavor  to  taste 

Sift,  measure  and  set  aside  flour  and  sugar;  separate  the  eggs,  putting 
the  whites  in  the  mixing  bowl  and  yolks  in  the  smaller  bowl;  beat  yolks 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 57 

to  a  very  stiff  froth;  whip  whites  to  a  foam;  add  cream  of  tartar,  salt  and  whip 
very  stiff.  Add  sugar  to  whites  and  fold  in  the  yolks  and  the  flour.  Put  in 
moderate  oven  at  once  and  bake  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

Miss  Jansaen 

STRAWBERRY  FILLING 

1  cup  strawberries  (not  washed)    1  cup  granulated  sugar 
White  of  one  egg 

Put  all  in  a  bowl  together,  mash  and  beat  until  the  contents  is  so  stiff  it 
will  not  run;  then  put  between  layers. 

Mrs.  Shuman 

PINEAPPLE  FILLING 

1  small  can  grated  pineapple 
§  cup  sugar 

Heat  altogether  and  thicken  with  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  water 
and  cook  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Goodhue 

OLD  DOMINION  SOFT  GINGER  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  4  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  2^  tablespoons  ginger 

1  cup  molasses  Cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste 

1  cup  rich  sour  cream  \  cup  strips    of    candied    orange 

Flour  (or  orange  marmalade) 

Mix  in  the  order  given  and  add  sufficient  flour  to  allow  the  spoon  to  almost 
stand  alone,  that  is,  about  the  consistency  of  pound  cake;  add  at  the  last  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  of  bicarbonate  of  soda. 

Mrs.  Easton 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  2  even  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  1  pound   each   of   seeded   raisins, 
1  cup  sweet  milk  figs,   and   blanched   almonds, 
2J  cups  flour  chopped  fine 

Whites  of  7  eggs  J  pound  citron,  chopped  fine 

Mix  all  thoroughly  before  adding  the  fruit;  then  add  a  teaspoon  extract 
of  lemon.  Put  the  baking  powder  in  the  flour  and  mix  it  well  before  adding 
it  to  the  other  ingredients.  Sift  a  little  flour  over  the  fruit  before  stirring  it 
in.  Bake  slowly  two  hours  and  try  with  a  splint  to  see  when  it  is  done.  A 
cup  of  grated  cocoanut  is  a  nice  addition  to  this  cake. 

Mrs.  Early 


58  RECIPES  OF  THE 


Cookies 


BOLDEMANN'S 

Breakfast  Cocoa  and  Ground  Chocolate  You  Will  Find  Perfect 
in  Quality,  Purity  and  Strength 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  59 


Cookies 


CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

l£  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

\  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

\  cup  ground  chocolate  1  large  cup  walnuts 

Mix  very  soft,  roll,  and  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  Congdon 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  even  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg  1  cup  sugar 

Flour 

Mix  soft  and  roll  thin,  sift  granulated  sugar  over  the  top;  gently  roll  this 
in  and  bake.  For  a  change  add  fruit  and  spices,  and  bake  as  cup-cakes, 
not  mixing  as  stiff  as  for  cookies. 

Mrs.  II.  Warn 

FRUIT  COOKIES 

2  cups  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
§  cup  butter  Cloves 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  Cinnamon 

%  cup  water  Nutmeg 

1  egg  Flour 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  the  other  ingredients,  using  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  roll  out  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Sneider 

GINGER  SNAPS 

1  cup  butter  f  cup  sweet  milk 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  ginger 

Flour 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  molasses  in  which  the  soda 
has  been  dissolved,  milk,  ginger  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Roll  out,  cut  in  shapes  desired,  bake  in  quick  oven.  These  are  good  for 

weeks. 

Mrs.  Hermans 


60  RECIPES  OF  THE 


LEMON  SNAPS 

£  cup  sugar  J  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

£  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  milk 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  extract  of  lemon 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough;  roll  very  thin  and  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  F.  Bain 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKES 

Juice  of  six  lemons  Yolks  of  6  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Place  the  juice  of  the  lemons  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  sugar,  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  and  the  whites  well  beaten;  mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly, 
then  stir  one  way  over  the  hot  water  until  the  mixture  is  a  thick  paste  (cook 
about  twenty  minutes).  The  flavor  is  improved  if  a  few  thin  parings  of  the 
lemon  rind  are  placed  in  the  mixture  while  it  is  cooking  (remove  before 
bottling);  cover  closely  when  quite  cold;  it  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  two 
weeks;  this  is  sufficient  for  twenty-four  cakes  of  puff  pastry;  it  is  also  a  good 
filling  for  layer-cakes  and  sandwiches. 

Miss  E.  Lilian  Smith 

ROLLED  OATS  MACAROONS 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  eggs  beaten  light 

1  cup  sugar  2^  cups  rolled  oats 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Combine  mixtures  and  flavor;  drop  in  small  cakes  and  bake  in  slow  oven; 
better  to  let  them  stand  a  half  hour  or  so  before  cooking. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  S. 

PEANUT  WAFERS 

\  Ib.  peanut  butter  1  Ib.  powdered  sugar 

\  pt.  whites  of  eggs  1  oz.  wheat  flour 

Mix  in  the  order  given  and  drop  on  waxed  pans;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Boldemann 

SHINGLES 

§  cup  lard  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

£  cup  syrup  1  tablespoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  pinch  of  salt 

Boil  lard  and  syrup  together;  put  half  of  the  soda  in  with  the  syrup  and  after 
it  has  boiled  add  the  remaining  soda  which  has  been  dissolved  in  the  vine- 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 61 

gar.    Beat  egg  and  sugar,  add  to  the  rest;  also  enough  flour  to  roll  very  thin. 
Cut  in  the  shape  of  shingles. 

Mrs.  W.  Anderson 

WALNUT  DROPS 

1  cup  walnuts  chopped  fine  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  flour,  (sifted)  1  tablespoon  molasses 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

Mix  together  well  and  drop  from  spoon  on  buttered  pan. 

Mrs.  Nisbet 

WALNUT  WAFERS 

2  eggs  3  tablespoons  flour 
1  cup  light  brown  sugar                  A  pinch  of  salt 

£  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add 
the  flour,  salt  and  nuts.  Invert  a  large  dripping  pan  and  grease  the  bottom 
well.  Drop  by  teaspoons,  a  little  distance  apart;  cook  in  a  moderate  oven; 
let  cool  on  pan  when  they  will  easily  slip  off. 

ROLLED  WAFERS 

J  cup  butter  J  cup  milk 

\  cup  powdered  sugar  f  cup  bread  flour 

^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  milk  drop  by  drop,  then  add 
flour  and  flavoring;  spread  very  thinly  with  a  broad,  long-bladed  knife 
on  a  buttered,  inverted  dripping  pan;  crease  in  three-inch  squares  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  until  delicately  browned;  place  pan  on  back  of  range;  cut 
squares  apart  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  roll  while  warm  in  tubular  or  cornu- 
copia shapes.  If  squares  become  too  brittle  to  roll,  place  in  oven  to  soften. 
If  rolled  tubular  shape  tie  in  bunches  with  narrow  ribbon.  These  are  very 
attractive  and  may  be  served  with  sherbet,  ice  cream  or  chocolate;  if  rolled 
cornucopia  shape  they  may  be  filled  with  whipped  cream  just  before  sending 
to  the  table.  Colored  wafers  may  be  made  from  this  mixture  by  adding 
leaf  green  or  fruit  red.  If  colored  green  flavor  with  one-fourth  teaspoon 
almond  and  three-fourths  teaspoon  vanilla;  if  colored  pink,  flavor  with  rose. 
Colored  wafers  must  be  baked  in  a  very  slow  oven  and  turned  frequently, 
otherwise  they  will  not  be  of  the  uniform  color  that  is  desired. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Sanderson 


62  RECIPES  OF  THE 


DUTCH  APPLE  PIE 

Peel  and  slice  in  about  eighths,  the  apples;  use  a  bottom  crust  only;  stand 
the  apples  very  thickly  on  the  wide  edge;  sprinkle  in  a  little  flour,  then  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  season  well  with  cinnamon,  and  fill  as  full  as  possible  with  cream. 
The  canned  cream  can  be  used.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  as  the  apples  burn 
easily. 

Mrs.  F.  M.  S. 

BANANA  PIE 

Turn  a  deep  pie-tin  upside  down;  cover  with  pastry  and  bake  to  a  delicious 
brown;  slip  the  pastry  off  carefully  and  set  on  a  plate  to  cool;  fill  with  sliced 
bananas  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar  and  lemon  juice;  cover  with  whipped 
cream  which  has  been  previously  sweetened  and  flavored. 

Mrs.  Hagen 

CREAM  PIE 

3  egg  yolks  1  tablespoon  butter 

3  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  flour  3  egg  whites 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  egg  yolks,  sugar,  flour,  butter  to  a  cream;  add  gradually  the  milk  and 
the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff;  flavor  with  vanilla;  pour  in  crust  and  bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Robinson 

LEMON  PIE 

Grated  rind  of  2  lemons  3  eggs 

l£  cups  white  sugar  Juice  of  two  lemons 

2  heaping  tablespoons  unsifted       2  cups  water 

flour  or  Piece  of  butter,  size  of  a 

1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  walnut 

Stir  well  together  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  sugar,  flour  or  cornstarch; 
add  the  yolks  of  the  three  eggs  well  beaten;  beat  this  thoroughly  together; 
add  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  water  and  butter.  Set  on  the  fire  in  double  boiler 
and  cook  until  it  thickens  and  will  dip  up  on  the  spoon  like  cold  honey. 
Remove  from  fire  and  when  cool  pour  into  deep  pie  pans  with  pastry.  Bake. 
When  done,  cover  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  three  small  tea- 
spoons of  sugar;  spread  over  the  top,  return  to  the  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

Mrs.  Cole 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 63 

MINCE  MEAT 

1  Ib.  of  cooked  beef  Ij  Ibs.  currants 

l£  Ibs.  beef  suet  \  Ib.  citron  cut  fine 

3  Ibs.  sour  apples  2  Ibs.  light  brown  sugar 

3  Ibs.  seeded  raisins  2  oranges,  juice  and  rind 

2  lemons,  juice  and  rind  \  tablespoon  cloves 

3  teaspoons  salt  \  tablespoon  mace 

2  nutmegs  grated  1  pt.  wine  (port  or  sherry) 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon  1  pt.  brandy 

\  pt.  sweet  cider 

Have  the  beef  freshly  cooked  and  chopped;  also  the  suet  and  apples 
chopped;  mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly  together  and  put  in  glass  jars; 
will  keep  a  long  time  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrt.  Melrose 

ENGLISH  MINCE  PIES 

(Mincemeat) 

Rind  of  2  lemons  1  Ib.  Sultana  raisins 

6  apples  1  Ib.  chopped  suet 

Juice  of  four  lemons  2  Ibs.  sugar 

1  Ib.  chopped  raisins  \  Ib.  chopped  candied  peel 

1  Ib.  currants  (citron,  orange  and  lemon) 

2  tablespoons  brandy  or  rum  (this    2  tablespoons  orange  marmalade 

may  be  omitted) 

Pare  the  yellow  rinds  of  the  lemons  and  boil  until  sufficiently  tender  to 
chop  until  very  fine;  bake  the  apples,  remove  the  cores  and  skins,  adding 
the  remainder  to  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  then  add  the  raisins,  currants, 
Sultana  raisins,  suet,  sugar,  candied  peel,  brandy  and  orange  marmalade. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  place  in  a  stone  jar;  will  be  ready  for  use  in  twelve  days. 

Line  the  patty  pans  with  puff  pastry  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick;  fill  with 
mincemeat  and  cover  with  pastry;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  pie;  brush  the  tops  with  white 
of  eggs  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 

\  cup  butter  1  cup  canned  pineapple  (chopped 

1  cup  sugar  fine) 

Yolks  of  four  eggs  1  cup  sweet  cream 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  pineapple  and 
the  cream;  line  a  deep  pie-tin  with  a  good  crust,  fill  with  the  above  and  bake 


64  RECIPES  OF  THE 


until  done,  then  cover  with  the  meringue  made  of  the  four  egg  whites  and  a 
little  sugar;  let  slightly  brown  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  Ryley 

RAISIN  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

£  cup  sweet  cream  1  egg 

^  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  cloves 

Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  with  two  crusts. 

Mrs.  Congdon 

SQUASH  PIE 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  ginger 

2  tablespoons  molasses  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  pt.  boiled  squash                           1  pt.  milk 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  3  eggs 

Salt 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  molasses,  mashed  squash,  butter,  ginger, 
cinnamon,  milk  and  salt;  bake  in  one  crust.  This  will  make  one  large  or 
two  small  pies.  The  Hubbard  squash  is  the  best. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  U. 

SQUASH  PIE 

Buy  canned  squash,  either  S.  &  W.  or  American  Club,  add  five  eggs 
beaten  well,  two  coffee  cups  sugar,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  a  little 
salt,  a  quart  of  milk,  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  ginger  and  nutmeg;  mix  well. 
This  will  make  two  large  pies. 

Mrs.  F.  M.  S. 

WONDERBERRY  PIE 

This  is  a  comparatively  new  berry;  is  very  easily  grown  and  has  a  delicious 
flavor  when  cooked;  take  stems  off  and  wash  well;  fill  a  lined  pie-plate  with 
the  berries,  allowing  one  teaspoon  of  flour  to  four  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
make  the  pies  with  two  crusts. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Bain 

PIE  CRUSTS 

1  Ib.  flour  6  oz.  butter 

6  oz.  lard  Salt 

Sift  the  flour;  add  the  salt;  chop  into  it  the  lard  and  butter;  mix  with  as 
little  ice-water  (or  as  cold  as  possible)  as  will  hold  the  ingredients  together; 
allow  it  to  stand  in  a  cold  place  one  hour  before  using. 

Miss  Greenlaw 


WOMAN'S  CLUB^OF  SAN  MATEO  65 


COTTOLENE 

is  the  pure  food  shortening  for  pies,  pastry,  etc.;  is  a  pure,  healthy  vegetable 

oil  product  containing  no  trace  of  hog  fat.   Pie  crust  with  lard  is  indigestible. 

Use  one-fourth  to  one-third  less  of  Cottolene  than  lard.  Marion  Harland  writes: 

"I  ceased  using  lard  in  my  kitchen  years  ago  and  substituted  Cottolene.  I  wish 

it  were  in  my  power  to  install  this  pure  vegetable  product  in 

the  esteem  of  my  fellow  housewives." 


66  RECIPES  OF  THE 


CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

6  eggs  (the  yolks)  6  tablespoons  ground  chocolate 

6  tablespoons  sugar  6  tablespoons  sweet  cream 

6  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs         6  egg  whites 

Beat  the  eggs  separately;  add  to  the  yolks  the  sugar  and  beat  again,  then 
add  the  cracker  crumbs,  chocolate,  cream,  and  lastly  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Put  into  a  pudding  mould  and  boil  for  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Mrs.  F.  L. 

FIG  PUDDING 

^  Ib.  dried  figs  \  Ib.  beef  suet 

%  Ib.  bread  crumbs  2  eggs 

2  oz.  sugar 

Pour  hot  water  over  the  figs  and  soak  until  soft  (about  ten  minutes)  strain 
off  the  water,  chop  the  figs  very  fine  with  the  suet,  crumbs  and  sugar;  when 
thoroughly  mixed  add  the  two  eggs  beaten  until  very  light;  pour  into  buttered 
pudding-moulds  and  boil  for  four  or  five  hours.  Serve  with  wine  sauce. 
,  If  butter  is  used  instead  of  suet,  add  a  cup  and  half  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon 
and  a  hah*  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Mrs.  CoU 

GRAHAM  PRUNE  PUDDING 

2  cups  of  stoned  prunes  1  cup  (large)  sweet  milk 

§  cup  New  Orleans  molasses          2  eggs 
1  cup  (large)  graham  flour  2  teaspoons  soda 

Spice  to  taste 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  hot  water;  add  to  the  molasses;  to  this  add  the  graham 
flour  and  sweet  milk  alternately,  then  the  spice  and  the  prunes  cut  very 
fine;  lastly  the  well -beaten  eggs.  Pour  into  a  well -buttered  pudding-mould 
and  steam  for  two  hours.  This  makes  two  small  puddings. 

SAUCE 

J  cup  butter  Juice  of  one  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg  beaten  well 

1  tablespoon  hot  water 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  beat  the  egg  in,  add  the  lemon 
gradually  and  the  hot  water;  cook  over  hot  water  until  thoroughly  heated. 

Miss  Alma  A.  Greenlaw 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 67 

INDIAN  PUDDING 

3§  cups  milk  J  cup  New  Orleans  molasses 

£  cup  Indian  meal  3  oz.  beef  suet,  chopped  fine 

^  teaspoon  salt 

Scald  one  and  one-third  cups  milk,  stir  into  it  gradually  the  Indian  meal 
and  the  molasses;  beat  until  smooth  and  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool; 
put  into  a  baking-dish  the  beef  suet  and  the  salt,  then  add  the  cool  pudding 
and  one  and  one-third  cups  cold  milk.  Stir  well.  Add  one  cup  of  cold  milk 
and  do  not  stir  again;  bake  very  slowly  five  hours.  Serve  hot  with  cream 
or  sweet  butter;  this  may  be  cooked  very  nicely  in  the  fireless  cooker,  taking 
twice  the  length  of  time  and  browned  for  the  last  half  hour  in  the  oven. 

INDIAN  TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

1  tablespoon  pearl  tapioca  £  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  Indian  meal  1  qt.  milk 

\  cup  New  Orleans  molasses         \  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  the  washed  tapioca  in  the  milk  for  three  hours;  add  other  ingre- 
dients, stirring  the  Indian  meal  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  of  the  milk 
before  adding;  bake  slowly  two  hours.  Serve  hot  with  whipped  cream. 
Raisins  improve  this  pudding. 

CHRISTMAS  PUDDING 

1  Ib.  seeded  raisins  Juice  of  both 

1  gill  brandy  4  oz.  almonds 

1  Ib.  currants  1  nutmeg  grated 

2  oz.  citron  1  Ib.  sugar 

1  oz.  each  lemon  and  orange  1  teaspoon  salt 

candied  peel  1  Ib.  stale  bread  crumbs 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon  and  1  8  eggs 

orange  1  glass  each  of  brandy  and  sherry 

Sufficient  rich  milk  to  slightly  moisten  pudding 

Put  the  seeded  raisins  into  a  mixing  bowl  and  pour  over  them  the  brandy; 
let  these  stand  until  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  are  prepared ;  wash  the  currants, 
rub  dry  on  a  towel,  dust  lightly  with  the  flour;  add  to  these  the  citron,  lemon 
and  orange  candied  peel  cut  in  thin  slices;  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemon  and 
orange  and  the  juice;  blanch  the  almonds,  split  them  and  add  the  nutmeg, 
sugar,  salt  and  bread  crumbs;  beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  add  to  the  other 
ingredients  and  stir  in  the  brandy  and  sherry  and  the  milk;  stir  well  till 
ready  to  put  into  moulds;  butter  and  slightly  dust  with  flour  and  fill  the 
moulds  within  half  an  inch  of  the  top;  lay  over  a  buttered  sheet  of  paper, 


68  RECIPES  OF  THE 


cover  closely  and  boil  for  eight  hours;  keep  the  pudding  moulds  surrounded 
with  boiling  water;  prepare  a  week  before  Christmas  and  when  needed  boil 
for  an  hour  longer  until  they  heat  through  thoroughly. 

SAUCE 

Cream  together  a  large  cup  of  sugar  and  half  cup  of  butter;  add  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  well  beaten  and  one  glass  of  sherry,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  cup  of 
rich  milk;  beat  thoroughly,  cook  till  creamy  in  double  boiler. 

Mrs.  Schmolte 


PLUM  PUDDING 

1J  Ibs.  butter  2  Ibs.  currants  (carefully  cleaned) 

1  Ib.  sugar  £  Ib.  citron  shredded 

1  Ib.  suet  12  eggs  beaten  separately 
2J  Ibs.  flour  (sifted)  1  pt.  sweet  milk 

2  Ibs.  raisins,  (seeded)  \  oz.  each  cloves,  mace,  cinnamon 
1  pint  brandy.  and  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  milk,  flour  and  whites 
of  eggs  alternately;  dissolve  spices  in  brandy  and  add  the  suet,  finely  chopped 
and  the  fruit  well  dredged  with  flour;  put  in  buttered  moulds  and  steam 
five  hours.  This  recipe  makes  three  medium  sized  puddings. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Bain 

PLUM  PUDDING 

1  Ib.  raisins  cut  in  halves  1  glass  brandy 

1  Ib.  currants  1  glass  sherry 

1  Ib.  beef  suet  (chopped  fine)  2  nutmegs  grated 

1  Ib.  bread  crumbs  £  tablespoon  cinnamon 

1  Ib.  white  figs  (cut  fine)  \  tablespoon  mace 

8  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  Ib.  sugar  1  pt.  milk 
\\  Ibs.  citron  chopped  fine 

Prepare  with  the  exception  of  the  eggs  all  the  ingredients  the  day  before; 
when  ready  to  mix  the  pudding  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  then  add  the  milk 
and  beat  both  together  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients;  the  fruit  must  be 
well  dredged  with  flour;  steam  six  hours. 

Mrs.  Max  Brown 

Note :  If  the  meat  chopper  is  used  in  preparing  fruit,  suet  and  bread  crumbs, 
all  plum  puddings  can  be  made  very  much  more  easily  and  quickly. 

M.  R.  T. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 


SUPERIOR  SPICE  PUDDING 

1  teaspoon  molasses  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  tablespoon  butter  £  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  soda  \  teaspoon  allspice 

A  pinch  of  salt  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

1  cup  water  1  cup  currants 

4  cups  sifted  flour  \  cup  finely  chopped  citron 
2  well  beaten  eggs 

Beat  together  the  molasses,  butter,  soda  and  salt;  then  add  the  water, 
the  flour,  and  spices,  raisins  and  currants  which  have  been  well  dredged 
with  flour,  and  citron,  and  mix  well.  Add  the  eggs,  butter  a  three-pound 
pudding  mould  and  pour  the  mixture  into  it  and  cover  closely;  surround 
with  boiling  water  and  steam  for  three  hours;  serve  warm  with  either  hard 
sauce  or  brandy  sauce.  This  pudding  will  keep  several  weeks.  Steam 
again  three  quarters  of  an  hour  when  needed. 

Mrs.  McCarthy 


SUET  PUDDING 

1  cup  molasses  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  raisins  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

£  cup  currants  \  teaspoon  soda 

2J  cups  flour  1  cup  chopped  suet 

\  cup  citron  Salt  to  taste 

Wash,  dry  and  dredge  the  fruit;  add  the  flour,  molasses,  spices,  milk  and 
soda;  put  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  mould;  surround  the  mould  with  boiling 
water;  cover  and  steam  three  hours. 

SAUCE 

Two-thirds  cup  of  sugar  and  one-third  cup  of  butter  creamed  together; 
add  one  well-beaten  egg  and  just  before  serving  add  enough  boiling  water 
to  make  the  consistency  of  cream;  add  the  flavoring  desired. 

Mrs.  Strattan 


HOT  ZABAJONE 

Put  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  white  wine 
into  the  top  of  double  boiler;  place  this  over  the  boiling  water  and  beat 
with  a  French  egg  whip  until  thick,  being  careful  not  to  cook  it  too  long; 
serve  hot  in  punch  glasses  with  small  fancy  cakes. 

Mrs.  Beretta 


70  RECIPES  OF  THE 


FOLGER'S 
GOLDEN  GATE  COFFEE 

High  Grade  High  Price 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  71 


(Edit)  ©essert* 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE 

4  rounding  tablespoons  cornstarch  A  pinch  of  salt 

1  qt.  milk  2  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate 

^  cup  sugar 

Mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  milk;  put  the  remainder  of  the  milk  in 
double  boiler;  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  Baker's  chocolate  and  when  hot  stir 
the  cornstarch  in  gradually,  stirring  frequently  while  the  mixture  cooks 
fifteen  minutes;  turn  into  one  large  mould  or  several  smaller  moulds  and  allow 
to  cool;  serve  with  either  whipped  cream,  ice  cream  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Miss  Velma  Warn 

COMPOTE  OF  BANANAS  AND  PEACHES 

l£  cups  boiling  water  Rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon 

1  heaping  tablespoon  powdered  Rind  and  juice  of  one  orange 

gelatine  dissolved  in  3  tablespoons  sherry 
J  cup  cold  water  6  peaches 

1  cup  sugar  8  bananas 

Whipped  cream 

Slice  the  peaches  and  bananas  into  a  dish  and  add  the  wine;  put  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  the  water  into  a  saucepan;  add  the  sugar,  rind  and 
juice  of  the  orange  and  lemon  and  boil  for  ten  minutes;  remove  from  the  fire; 
add  the  dissolved  gelatine  and  strain  over  the  fruit;  set  away  until  firm.  Serve 
with  whipped  sweetened  cream. 

Mrs.  Sneider 

MACAROON  BROMANGELON 

Take  one  package  of  strawberry  Bromangelon  and  prepare  according  to 
directions;  allow  one-half  to  congeal  in  a  flat  dish,  putting  remaining  half 
in  six  claret  cups;  when  it  has  become  firm  arrange  lady-fingers  in  an  upright 
position  about  the  edges  of  the  cups,  leaving  a  space  in  the  center  into  which 
you  put  the  remaining  Bromangelon  mixed  with  half  pint  of  whipped 
cream  and  half  a  dozen  macaroons  which  have  been  softened  in  sherry 
wine;  then  add  another  spoonful  of  plain  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla;  allow  this  to  remain  near  the  ice  for  a  few  hours.  It 
may  be  served  in  the  cups  or  removed  by  carefully  running  a  knife  around 
the  edges. 

Mrs.  Brady 


72  RECIPES  OF  THE 


MAPLE  CUSTARD 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten    2  cups  milk 

separately  1  cup  thick  maple  syrup 

J  teaspoon  salt 

Add  to  the  yolks  the  salt,  milk  and  syrup;  add  the  beaten  whites  and  bake 
in  custard  cups  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  about  twenty  minutes. 

Miss  Velma  Warn 

MARSHMALLOW  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

Whip  a  pint  of  double  cream;  fold  into  it  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs;  add  two  tablespoons  of  chopped  blanched  almonds;  two  tablespoons 
chopped  candied  cherries  and  ten  cents  worth  of  marshmallows  pulled  into 
small  pieces;  vanilla  and  powdered  sugar  to  taste.  Cut  from  the  top  of  a 
round  sponge  cake  one  thin  slice,  hollow  out  the  center  of  the  cake  leaving 
a  wall  or  walls  of  about  one  inch  thick;  fill  with  the  Charlotte  russe  mixture 
and  cover  with  the  round  of  the  cake  which  was  cut  from  the  to 


top. 
.  G. 


Mrs.  F.  G.  Sanderson 


MARSHMALLOW  FRUIT  PUDDING 

1  heaping  tablespoon  Knox's  gelatine  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  cold  water  2  whites  of  eggs 

1  small  can  of  pineapple  or  one  cup  of  berries 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water;  add  the  sugar  and  boil;  put  into  a  large 
bowl  and  beat  before  it  congeals;  add  the  unbeaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
beat  with  the  egg  beater  half  an  hour  until  spongy;  add  the  pineapple  or 
berries  and  continue  beating  a  few  minutes;  mould  in  cups  and  serve  with 
cream. 

Mrs.  Herman* 

COVERED  PEACHES 

Place  in  a  platter  a  dozen  preserved  peaches;  the  syrup  of  these  is  used 
to  sweeten  the  following  cream:  place  one  quart  of  milk  with  the  syrup  to 
heat  in  a  double  boiler  on  a  slow  fire;  when  scalded,  add  six  ounces  of  ground 
almonds;  allow  it  to  cook  for  half  an  hour  and  just  before  removing  from 
the  fire  a'dd  six  well  beaten  eggs;  then  beat  the  cream  thoroughly  and  pour 
over  the  peaches;  brown  a  few  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven.  To  be  served 
cold. 

Mrs.  Boden 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 78 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM 

1  can  grated  pineapple  1  package  gelatine 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  of  four  eggs 

1  pt.  whipping  cream 

Boil  pineapple  with  juice  and  sugar  twenty  minutes;  dissolve  the  gelatine 
in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  strain;  then  add  to  pineapple  and  whipped 
cream,  and  lastly  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Put  in  mould 
and  place  on  ice. 

Mrs.  EcUey 

SPANISH  SOUFFLE 

1  stale  sponge  cake  1  cup  cold  custard 

1  jar  raspberry  jam  or  jelly  1  pt.  whipped  cream 

J  cup  sherry  Glace  cherries 

Pistachio  nuts 

Cut  cake  in  slices,  putting  together  with  the  jam,  sandwich-fashion; 
put  on  serving  dish  (glass  or  silver)  and  pour  sherry  over  the  cake;  when  the 
sherry  is  absorbed  pour  the  custard  over;  flavor  and  sweeten  the  cream, 
pile  on  the  top  of  the  cake,  and  garnish  with  the  cherries  and  finely  chopped 
pistachio  nuts. 

Mrs.  Eva 

SUMMER  PUDDING 

Rinse  a  plain  mould  with  cold  water;  line  with  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake  or 
bread ;  stew  about  one  pound  of  blackberries;  sweeten  and  while  hot  pour  into 
the  mould;  cover  with  a  thick  round  of  cake  and  put  a  plate  and  a  weight 
on  top  of  it;  let  it  stand  until  the  next  day  if  possible;  serve  cold  with  custard 
sauce.  Almost  any  kind  of  juicy  fruit  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  Aldwett 


cups  sugar, 
4  cups  water, 


WINE  JELLY 

boil  to  1    box   Knox's   gelatine,  dissolved 

syrup  in  one  cup  cold  water 


2  whole  cloves  2  cups  sherry 

Rind  of  one  lemon  Juice  of  3  lemons 

Add  the  cloves  and  the  rind  of  the  lemon  to  the  sugar  and  water;  cover, 
and  remove  from  stove  for  five  minutes  to  draw  out  the  flavors  of  clove 
and  lemon;  return  to  the  stove  and  add  the  dissolved  gelatine,  sherry  and  the 
juice  of  the  lemon;  strain  through  a  cheese  cloth  wet  in  hot  water;  put  into 
moulds,  chill  and  serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Casey 


74  RECIPES  OF  THE 


COLD  ZABAJONE 

Make  the  same  as  the  hot  zabajone;  chill  it,  whip  a  pint  of  cream,  sweeten 
and  flavor  with  a  little  brandy;  beat  this  into  the  zabajone;  set  into  ice  box 
and  serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Berctta 

LEMON  CREAM 

4  eggs  (yolks)  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons 

4  tablespoons  sugar  2  teacup  luke  warm  water 

\  wine  glass  white  wine 

Put  the  above  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  over  hot  water  until  of  the 
consistency  of  whipped  cream;  remove  from  fire  and  when  somewhat  cool, 
whip  in  quickly  the  whites  of  the  eggs  previously  beaten  until  stiff  and  sweet- 
ened; chill.  Very  dainty  and  delicious. 

Mrs.  Scott 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

1  cup  boiling  water  Fruit  coloring 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  Whites  of  two  eggs 

Soften  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water  and  then  dissolve  the  gelatine  and 
sugar  in  the  boiling  water.  After  this  has  partly  cooled  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  (not  beaten),  vanilla  and  coloring.  Beat  with  a  Dover  eggbeater 
about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  quite  stiff.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  (Will 
serve  eight  dishes). 

/  Mrs.  Early 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  75 


Jfrojen 


FROZEN  PUDDING 

1  pt.  Charlotte  Russe  cream          Pineapple 
Whites  of  three  eggs  Flavoring 

Maraschino  cherries  J  cup  sugar 

1  doz.  ladyfingers 

Whip  the  cream;  fold  into  it  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  add  to  this  the 
chopped  fruit  and  flavoring,  also  sugar.  Line  a  mould  with  ladyfingers, 
pour  the  mixture  in  and  cover  mould  tightly  and  surround  with  ice  and  salt, 
equal  proportions,  and  allow  to  freeze;  about  one-fourth  pound  of  cherries 
and  one-fourth  pound  of  pineapple  will  be  needed  for  this  pudding. 


Mrs.  Friend 


ROSE  ICE 


Conceal  a  platter  in  pink  rose  petals,  then  place  in  center  of  platter  a 
block  of  ice  about  eight  by  twelve  inches  which  has  been  previously  hollowed 
slightly;  heap  in  this  ice  receptacle  frozen  strawberries.  This  is  a  very 
attractive  way  to  serve  an  ice  at  the  table. 

Miss  Pearl  Waggoner 

JUNKET  ICE  CREAM  WITH  PEACHES 

4  cups  luke  warm  milk  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

1  cup  heavy  cream  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Ij  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

J  teaspoon  salt  Green  coloring 

1^  junket  tablets  1  can  peaches 

Mix  first  four  ingredients  and  add  junket  tablets  dissolved  in  cold  water; 
turn  into  a  pudding  dish  and  let  stand  until  set;  add  flavoring  and  coloring; 
freeze,  mould  and  serve  garnished  with  halves  of  peaches,  filling  cavities 
with  halves  of  blanched  almonds;  turn  peaches  into  a  saucepan,  add  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  cook  slowly  until  syrup  is  thick;  cool  before  garnishing  ice 
cream. 

BAKED  ALASKA 

Whites  of  six  eggs  2  qt.  brick  of  ice  cream 

6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar        Thin  sheet  of  sponge  cake 

Make  a  meringue  of  eggs  and  sugar;  cover  a  board  with  white  paper,  lay 
on  sponge  cake,  turn  ice  cream  on  the  cake  (which  should  extend  one  inch 


76  RECIPES  OF  THE 


beyond  the  cream)  cover  with  meringue  and  spread  smoothly;  place  on  oven 
grate  and  brown  quickly  in  hot  oven.  The  board,  paper,  cake  and  meringue 
are  poor  conductors  of  heat  and  prevent  cream  from  melting.  Slip  from 
paper  on  ice  cream  platter  and  serve. 

CONCORD  CREAM 

1  pt.  cream  Lemon  or  fresh  lime  juice 

1J  cups  grape  juice  ^  cup  heavy  cream 

J  cup  sugar  Pistachio  nuts,  finely  chopped 

Mix  cream,  grape  juice  and  sugar;  add  lemon  or  lime  juice  to  taste;  freeze 
and  serve  in  glasses;  garnish  with  heavy  cream  beaten  until  stiff ,  sweetened 
and  flavored.  Sprinkle  cream  with  nuts. 

MAPLE  PARFAIT 

4  eggs  1  cup  hot  maple  syrup 

1  pt.  thick  cream 

Beat  eggs  slightly  and  pour  on  slowly  the  maple  syrup;  cook  until  mixture 
thickens;  cool  and  add  cream  beaten  until  stiff;  mould,  pack  in  salt  and  ice 
and  let  stand  three  hours. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

(To  be  served  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream) 
lj  cups  water  1  tablespoon  arrowroot 

£  cup  sugar  ^  cup  cold  water 

6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate       Few  grains  salt 
\  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  water  and  sugar  five  minutes;  mix  chocolate  with  arrowroot  to  which 
water  has  been  added;  combine  mixtures;  add  salt  and  boil  three  minutes. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  serve  hot. 

COFFEE  SAUCE 

(To  be  served  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream) 
iJf  cups  milk  J  cup  sugar 

\  cup  ground  coffee  f  tablespoon  arrowroot 

Few  grains  of  salt 

Scald  milk  with  coffee  and  let  stand  twenty  minutes;  mix  the  main  ingre- 
dients and  pour  on  gradually  the  hot  infusion  which  has  been  strained; 
cook  five  minutes  and  serve  hot. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 77 

MAPLE  SAUCE 

(To  be  served  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream) 

Heat  the  required  amount  of  maple  syrup  and  serve. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook-Book 

CHRISTMAS  ICE  CREAM 

Make  Pistachio  Ice  Cream  in  the  following  manner:  one  quart  of  thin 
cream,  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  vanilla,  one  teaspoon 
almond  extract,  and  color  with  Burnett's  Leaf  Green;  mix  these  ingredients 
and  freeze. 

Line  one-pound  baking  powder  boxes  or  the  freezer  can  with  Pistachio 
Ice  Cream;  sprinkle  with  Sultana  raisins  which  have  been  soaked  one  hour 
in  brandy;  fill  the  centers  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  or  whipped  cream  which 
has  been  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Cover  with  Pistachio 
Ice  Cream.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  one  and  one-half  hours. 

This  is  to  be  served  with  claret  sauce. 

CLARET  SAUCE 

1  cup  sugar  J  cup  water 

J  cup  claret 

Boil  sugar  and  water  eight  minutes;  cool  slightly  and  add  claret.  Serve 
a  spoonful  of  this  in  the  center  of  a  slice  of  Christmas  Ice  Cream. 

Mary  Robinson  Thomas 

FROZEN  PUDDING 

One  pint  Charlotte  Russe  cream  beaten  stiff  and  sweetened;  divide  into 
three  parts;  flavor  one  part  with  melted  chocolate,  another  part  with  straw- 
berry or  raspberry  jam  and  the  third  part  with  vanilla;  pack  in  a  tin  melon 
mould  putting  grated  or  rolled  macaroons  between  layers  and  any  kind  of 
glace  fruit;  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  six  hours. 

Mrs.  Max  Brown 


78  RECIPES  OF  THE 


SAN  MATEO  BAKERY 

7*  Most  Reliable  in  Furnishing  Luncheon  Pastry,  Sandwich  Bread 

Patty  Shells,  Delicate  Cakes  for  Afternoon  Teas 

Wedding  and  Birthday  Cakes  to  Order 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  79 


HINTS  FOR  THE  FILLING  OF  SANDWICHES 

Meats  should  be  cooked  until  very  tender  for  sandwiches;  when  sliced, 
the  meat  should  be  cut  across  the  grain  and  as  thin  as  possible;  a  filling 
of  chopped  corned-beef  or  ham  is  improved  by  the  addition  of  mustard; 
use  Worcestershire  or  horseradish  sauce  with  roast  beef  or  tongue;  chopped 
capers,  tomato  sauce,  catsup  or  mint  sauce  combine  well  with  lamb;  season 
chicken  or  veal  with  celery  salt,  and  fish  with  lemon  juice. 

Chopped  meat  or  fish  may  be  mixed  with  salad  dressings  or  any  well- 
prepared  dressing;  chopped  celery,  cress,  cucumbers,  tomatoes  or  olives 
may  be  used  with  meat  and  dressing;  lettuce  leaves  are  usually  served  whole, 
the  edges  barely  showing  outside  the  sandwiches;  fruits  may  be  used  for 
filling  and  moistened  with  fresh  fruit  juice;  the  dried  fruits  should  be  chopped 
and  stewed. 

Scented  sandwiches  are  prepared  by  wrapping  the  butter  to  be  used  in 
a  napkin  and  keeping  it  over  night  on  beds  of  either  violets,  fragrant  rose 
petals,  clover  blossoms  or  nasturtiums  in  a  closely  covered  jar. 

Fresh  fruit  sandwiches  are  nice  made  with  thin  water  wafers. 


CAVIAR  SANDWICHES 

Four  tablespoons  caviar,  15  drops  of  onion  juice  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

CHEESE  AND  ANCHOVY 

2  tablespoons  butter  \  tablespoon  of  vinegar 

\  cup  grated  American  cheese       Salt,  paprika,  mustard  and 

anchovy  essence 

Cream  the  butter  and  cheese  together;  add  vinegar  and  season  with  salt, 
paprika,  mustard  and  anchovy  essence;  spread  mixture  between  thin  slices 

of  bread. 

Mrs.  J.  C. 

LIVER  PASTATE 

Liver  from  any  fowl  will  answer  for  this  recipe.  Boil  the  liver  until 
very  tender  with  an  onion  and  a  little  salt.  Place  in  chopping  bowl  with  a 
hard-cooked  egg,  parsley,  grated  onion,  pepper,  salt  and  a  dash  of  Worcester- 


80  RECIPES  OF  THE 


shire,  a  little  lemon  juice,  paprika  and  a  little  melted  butter.  Chop  all  very 
fine,  serve  on  buttered  toast  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  This  makes  a  very  nice 
sandwich  paste  or  can  be  served  as  an  appetizer. 

Mrs.  Baskette 

NASTURTIUM  SANDWICHES 

Spread  thin  slices  of  white  bread  with  mayonnaise,  then  with  nasturtium 
blossoms,  and  roll. 

M .  R.  T. 

PIMENTO  SANDWICHES 

Pimentos  Butter 

3  breakfast  cheeses 

Cream  the  cheese  with  melted  butter;  add  a  little  juice  from  the  pimento; 
cut  all  the  crusts  from  a  loaf  of  bread  and  cut  in  lengthwise  slices  about  one- 
third  of  an  inch  thick;  butter  and  spread  with  cheese;  then  put  three  length- 
wise strips  of  pimentos,  and  then  two  on  the  next  slice  and  so  on  until  the 
loaf  of  bread  is  used;  let  stand  and  cut,  just  before  serving,  like  a  loaf  cake. 

Mrs.  Julia  Donnelly 

PIMENTO  SANDWICHES 

1  can  chopped  pimentos  Sweet  or  sour  pickles  chopped  fine 

4  or  5  hard-cooked  eggs  Mayonnaise 

Bread 

Mix  the  chopped  pimentos,  hard-cooked  eggs,  pickles  together  with 
mayonnaise,  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread 

Mrs.  Banner 

'"  SARDINE  SANDWICHES 

1  box  best  sardines,  (boned)  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

1  small  onion  Bread 

Chop  together  the  sardines  and  onion;  stir  into  this  the  vinegar  and  spread 
on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread;  cut  in  any  shape  desired. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  V. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 81 

Cfjafing  SJtsrtj  IXecipes 

CREAMED  ASPARAGUS  TIPS  WITH  POACHED  EGG 

Make  a  cream  sauce  with  plenty  of  salt,  pepper  or  paprika  to  give  it  flavor; 
add  one  can  of  asparagus  tips  (which  have  been  rinsed  thoroughly  in  cold  water 
and  drained);  heat  in  shallow  pan  over  boiling  water;  when  at  boiling  point 
drop  in  whole  as  many  eggs  as  desired,  being  careful  not  to  break  them 
and  let  them  remain  until  the  whites  have  coagulated.  Serve  on  buttered 
toast. 

Mrs.  J.  C. 

CREAMED  BRAINS 

Parboil  in  water  with  a  little  vinegar  and  salt  three  sets  calves  brains; 
when  cool  cut  in  small  pieces  and  stew  in  a  little  water  with  an  onion  and  a 
bit  of  garlic  cut  very  fine  for  twenty  minutes;  to  this  add  a  pint  of  cream, 
a  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  Worcestershire  sauce;  a  drained  can 
of  mushrooms  improves  this  dish.  Thicken  with  flour  or  cornstarch  diluted 
in  a  little  milk  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  Batkette 

BRAINS  A  LA  ITALIENNE 

£  doz.  brains  1  clove  garlic,  (chopped  fine) 

Chopped  parsley  Pepper  and  salt 

J  cup  oil  and  butter  3  or  4  eggs 

Parmesan  cheese 

Thoroughly  clean  the  brains,  cut  into  pieces;  fry  a  little  parsley  in  the  oil 
and  butter,  but  do  not  let  it  brown;  add  the  brains,  the  garlic,  pepper  and 
salt;  beat  the  eggs  light  and  add  to  them  a  little  milk;  pour  this  on  the  brains 
and  stir  as  for  scrambled  eggs;  sprinkle  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  this 
and  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  L.  E.  B. 

CRAB  CREOLE 

1  onion  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
Butter  1  teaspoon  flour 

2  cups  tomatoes  Small  pinch  soda 
Meat  of  one  crab  Toast 

1  cup  cream 

Brown  the  onion  in  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  the  tomatoes  and  cook  slowly 
for  half  an  hour;  add  the  Worcestershire  and  the  soda,  the  meat  of  the  crab 
shredded,  and  lastly,  a  cup  of  cream;  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  Brady 


82  RECIPES  OF  THE 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

4  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

§  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  mild  cheese 

Mix  the  yolks  with  the  milk,  salt  and  pepper;  melt  the  butter  in  a  chafing 
dish;  when  hot  add  the  cheese;  after  the  cheese  is  melted  add  the  yolks  and 
milk;  stir  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  whites  (beaten  stiff).  Mix  well, 
cover  and  let  cook  fifteen  minutes  over  hot  water,  putting  directly  over  the 
flame  for  a  few  minutes  just  before  serving  so  that  it  may  brown  slightly. 


CRAB  OR  LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  put  into  it  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
crab  meat  (well  shredded);  stir  thoroughly  and  add  a  pint  of  cream  into 
which  the  yolks  of  eggs  have  been  well  mixed,  a  pinch  of  salt;  beat  again 
and  just  before  serving  add  two  tablespoons  of  sherry. 

Mrs.  W .  Anderson 

MINCED  EGGS 

6  hard-cooked  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  Toast 

£  teaspoon  savory  Mushrooms 
(chopped  fine) 

Chop  the  eggs  (not  too  fine) ;  cook  together  the  milk,  butter,  salt,  pepper 
and  savory;  when  this  comes  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  flour  blended  in  cold  milk; 
cook  until  thick  as  cream;  put  in  the  eggs  and  stir  gently  for  a  few  moments; 
serve  on  toast  and  garnish  with  mushrooms. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Bain 

GREEN  PEPPER  OMELET 

1  sweet  green  pepper  4  eggs 

1  tablespoon  butter  4  tablespoons  milk 

\  teaspoon  paprika 

Cut  the  pepper  in  tiny  shreds;  put  the  butter  in  omelet  pan;  when  hot, 
add  the  green  pepper  and  cook  five  minutes  without  browning;  beat  the 
eggs  separately  very  lightly;  add  salt,  pepper  and  milk  to  yolks  and  beat  again; 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  pour  into  omelet  pan;  cook  about  five 
minutes  in  very  hot  oven.  Fold  and  serve  on  hot  platter. 

M.  R.  T. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 83 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS 

Drain  and  wipe  dry  large  oysters;  cut  bacon  in  thin  slices,  and  put  one 
oyster  in  each  slice  of  bacon;  fasten  together  with  a  toothpick;  cook  in  hot 
oven  until  bacon  is  crisp  and  serve  on  round  piece  of  toast. 

Mrs.  H.  W. 


SWEET  BREAD  POULETTE 

Soak  one  pound  of  sweetbreads  in  cold  water,  and  change  the  water 
several  times;  put  on  the  fire  in  cold  water  and  cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes; 
remove  all  the  strings  and  fibres  possible  without  breaking  the  sweetbreads; 
put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  double  boiler,  and  when  melted  add  one  table- 
spoon flour,  mixing  well;  then  add  slowly  drop  by  drop  one  pint  of  cream, 
stirring  constantly;  add  the  sweetbreads  cut  in  dice,  three  dozen  California 
oysters,  one  small  can  of  French  mushrooms,  chopped  truffles,  yolk  of  one 
egg,  two  tablespoons  sherry  wine,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne  pepper  and  Worces- 
tershire sauce  to  taste.  Serve  in  chafing  dish  or  in  ramekins. 

Mrs.  Lazarus 


TOMATO  TOAST 

3  tablespoons  butter  1J  cups  of  tomatoes  stewed  and 

3  tablespoons  flour  strained 

\  teaspoon  salt  \  teaspoon  soda 

\  cup  scalded  milk  6  slices  toast 

Put  the  butter  into  a  saucepan;  when  bubbling  add  the  flour  and  the  salt; 
stir  in  gradually  the  tomato  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved;  add  the 
scalded  milk  and  pour  over  the  toast;  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  F.  L.  O. 

TOMATO  RAREBIT 

2  tablespoons  butter  £  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  cups  finely  cut  cheese 

£  cup  thin  cream  2  eggs  slightly  beaten 

f  cup  stewed  and  strained  Salt 

tomatoes  Mustard 

Cayenne 

Put  butter  in  chafing  dish;  when  melted  add  flour;  pour  on  gradually 
cream,  and  as  soon  as  mixture  thickens  add  tomatoes  mixed  with  soda;  then 
add  cheese,  eggs  and  seasonings  to  taste;  serve  as  soon  as  cheese  has  melted 

on  Graham  toast. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook-Book 


84  RECIPES  OF  THE 


WELSH  RAREBIT 

1  cup  grated  cheese  £  cup  scalded  milk  or  cream 

1  egg  Salt  and  paprika 

1  teaspoon  mustard  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 

2  tablespoons  butter  sauce 

Melt  butter  in  chafing  dish;  add  the  cheese,  mustard,  salt,  paprika  and 
Worcestershire,  then  scalded  milk  and  just  before  removing  from  the  fire 
add  beaten  eggs. 

Mrs.  Goodhw 


SHREDDED  HAM  WITH  CURRANT  JELLY  SAUCE 

\  tablespoon  butter  Few  grains  of  cayenne 

J  cup  currant  jelly  \  cup  sherry  wine 

1  cup  cold  cooked  ham,  cut  in  small  strips 

Put  butter  and  currant  jelly  into  the  chafing  dish;  as  soon  as  melted  add 
cayenne,  wine  and  ham;  simmer  five  minutes. 


DEVILED  ALMONDS 

2  oz.  blanched  and  shredded  2  tablespoons  chopped  pickles 

almonds  1  tablespoon     Worcestershire 

Butter  sauce 

1  tablespoon  chutney  J  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  of  cayenne 

Fry  almonds  until  well  browned,  using  enough  butter  to  prevent  them 
from  burning;  mix  remaining  ingredients,  pour  over  nuts  and  serve  as  soon 
as  thoroughly  heated.  Serve  with  oysters. 

FIG  CUPS 

\  Ib.  washed  figs  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Chopped  salted  almonds  \  cup  wine 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Stuff  figs  with  almonds;  put  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  wine  in  chafing  dish; 
when  heated  add  figs;  cover  and  cook  until  figs  are  tender,  turning  and 
basting  often;  serve  with  Lady  Fingers. 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook-Book 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  85 


€ljaftng 


SHREVE  &  COMPANY 

Chafing  Dishes  Sterling  Silver  Tableware 

Post  Street  and  Grant  Avenue 
San  Francisco 


86  RECIPES  OF  THE 


Confection* 

CARAMELS 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  6  tablespoons  chocolate 

1  cup  syrup  Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

3  tablespoons  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  altogether  and  cook  until  the  syrup  threads;  add  vanilla  and  pour 
into  a  well-greased  pan;  when  cold  cut  into  cubes. 

Mrs.  Wilson 

CHOICE  CREAM  CARAMELS 

2  cups  sugar  2  cups  cream 
l£  cups  corn  syrup  1  cup  nuts 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  sugar,  syrup,  butter  and  one  cup  of  cream  over  the  fire;  stir  and  cook 
until  the  mass  boils  throughout;  then  stir  in  gradually  so  as  not  to  stop  the 
boiling,  the  second  cup  of  cream;  boil  to  250  degrees  Fahrenheit,  or  when 
tested  in  cold  water  may  be  worked  to  a  firm  ball,  stirring  every  three  or 
four  minutes.  Stir  in  nuts  and  vanilla  and  turn  into  two  brick-shaped 
bread  pans;  when  nearly  cold  cut  in  cubes  and  roll  the  cubes  in  waxed  paper; 
for  chocolate  caramels  add  two  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate  directly 
after  the  second  cup  of  cream  has  been  added. 

M.  R.  T. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS 

4  cups  white  sugar  3  bars  cocoa-butter 
\  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  Ground  chocolate 

1  cup  water  Vanilla 

Stir  sugar  and  water  together  and  allow  it  to  boil  until  it  threads  or  a  soft 
ball  is  formed ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  allow  to  cool  until  the  outside  of  the 
saucepan  is  cold.  Beat  until  the  syrup  thickens  and  turns  white,  then  knead 
with  the  hands  until  it  becomes  creamy;  divide  into  as  many  parts  as  you 
have  coloring  or  flavoring;  drop  a  little  of  the  coloring  or  flavoring  or  both 
on  to  the  fondant,  mix  again  till  these  are  thoroughly  mixed  through  the 
fondant;  make  into  any  desired  shape  ready  for  dipping.  Melt  the  cocoa 
butter  over  hot  water  and  add  to  it  sufficient  chocolate  to  make  of  the  desired 
thickness  and  color.  Add  the  vanilla  and  while  dipping  keep  this  melted 
chocolate  over  the  hot  water.  A  fork  or  a  knitting-needle  may  be  used  for 
dipping. 

Mrs.  Wilson 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 87 

MOLASSES  CANDY 

2  cups  molasses  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Butter  size  of  an  egg  Flavoring 

Walnuts  or  peanuts 

It  is  impossible  to  make  this  satisfactorily  unless  the  real  New  Orleans 
molasses  can  be  secured ;  boil  molasses,  butter,  sugar  ,vinegar  until  it  hardens 
when  dropped  in  cold  water;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  flavor  as  desired 
and  stir  in  the  soda;  to  this  may  be  added  walnuts  or  peanuts,  or  it  may  be 
turned  out  to  cool  in  thin  sheets,  or  it  may  be  pulled  until  light  color. 

Mrs.  Walling 

MARSHMALLOWS 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  2  cups  sugar 

dissolve  in  ^  cup  water 

^  cup  water  Flavoring 

Water  and  sugar  boiled  to  a  thread,  poured  onto  the  gelatine  and  beaten 
until  stiff,  put  into  pan  oiled  with  olive  oil.  In  a  half  hour  cut  and  roll  in 
fine  powdered  sugar;  use  the  flavoring  desired  (one  teaspoon). 

Mr,.  F.  G.  S. 


GENUINE  PANOCHE  CANDY 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  white  sugar  3  dessert  spoons  ground  chocolate 

\  cup  butter  \  cup  walnuts,  chopped  fine 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  except  the  vanilla  and  let  cook  until  when  dropped 
into  cold  water  it  will  form  a  soft  ball;  remove  from  the  stove  and  flavor 
with  vanilla,  then  add  the  nuts  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  grain;  then  pour 
into  buttered  pans.  When  cold  cut  into  small  cubes.  For  plain  panoche 
make  as  above  and  omit  the  chocolate.  For  maple  panoche  substitute 
maple  sugar  for  the  light  brown  and  omit  the  chocolate. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  W. 


SEA-FOAM  CANDY 

Boil  to  soft  ball  three  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  Karo  Corn 
Syrup  and  a  half  cup  of  hot  water;  pour  one-half  cup  onto  the  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs  and  beat  until  the  remaining  syrup  boils  to  the  hard -ball  stage; 


88  RECIPES  OF  THE 


add  this  to  the  whites  and  continue  beating,  adding  one  and  one-half  cups 
chopped  nuts,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt;  pour  it  in 
buttered  pans  to  cool. 

M.  R.  T. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS 

£  Ib.  Baker's  chocolate  ^  Ib.  butter 

Ij  Ibs.  brown  sugar  1  cup  rich  cream 

Vanilla 

Boil  the  chocolate,  sugar,  butter  and  cream  one-half  hour,  stirring  con- 
stantly; try  in  cold  water  and  if  a  firm  ball  can  be  formed,  take  from  the  fire 
and  flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  buttered  tins. 

Mrs.  Nickerson 

OPERA  CREAM  CARAMELS 

3  cups  granulated  sugar  f  cup  glucose 

l£  cups  cream  Vanilla 

1  cup  walnuts 

Put  over  a  hot  fire  the  sugar,  cream  and  glucose,  and  cook  until  it  makes 
a  very  soft  wax  in  water;  add  the  vanilla,  cook  in  a  saucepan  with  a  large 
surface;  beat  in  "flops"  with  a  wooden  spoon;  when  it  begins  to  "snap" 
add  the  walnuts  (chopped).  Pour  on  square  buttered  tins.  When  cold 
cut  in  cubes;  keep  in  tin  box.  Makes  about  two  and  one-half  pounds. 

Mrs.  Jury 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  89 


Confection* 


MASKEY'S 

The  standard  of  Fine  Candies 
52  Kearny  Street 


90  RECIPES  OF  THE 


Jellies,  Jam*  anb  jWarmalabe* 


APRICOT  AND  PINEAPPLE  MARMALADE 

Wash  and  remove  the  pits  from  ripe  apricots;  take  an  equal  amount  of 
fresh  pineapple  and  cut  both  into  small  pieces;  allow  one  pound  of  sugar 
to  each  pound  of  fruit;  mix  altogether  and  let  stand  a  few  hours  or  over 
night  until  the  syrup  has  formed  a  sugar;  have  your  preserving  kettle  wet 
before  putting  in  the  fruit;  then  place  it  over  the  fire  with  an  asbestos  mat 
under  the  kettle  and  boil  gently  about  an  hour.  A  little  preserved  ginger  or 
thinly  sliced  raw  ginger  root  is  sometimes  an  agreeable  addition. 

Mrs.  Cok 


UNCOOKED  BERRY  JAM 

Mash  the  berries  until  no  lumps  remain;  measure  and  add  the  same  amount 
of  sugar  as  there  are  berries;  let  stand  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  stirring 
occasionally.  Put  into  glasses  and  set  away.  You  may  cover  the  jam  with 
paper  dipped  in  alcohol  if  you  wish.  Raspberries,  blackberries,  currants, 
loganberries  or  strawberries  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Sanderson 


CONSERVE 

4  Ibs.  red  cherry  currants  1  Ib.  raisins,  (seeded) 

4  Ibs.  sugar  2  oranges,  (sliced) 

Cut  the  oranges  into  cubes  with  the  peels,  mix  all  the  ingredients  together 

and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Koop 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

(1)  Cut  the  oranges  in  very  thin  slices;  to  one  quart  of  oranges  add  two 
quarts  of  water  and  let  stand  over  night;  remove  all  seeds. 

(2)  Boil  briskly  till  the  oranges  can  be  mashed  with  a  fork;  remove  from 
fire  and  let  stand  until  cold. 

(3)  Measure,  and  to  every  twelve  pints  add  ten  pounds  white  sugar; 
boil  rapidly  until  it  "jells";  to  insure  a  light  color  cook  in  bright  tin  this  time. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Green 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 91 

TOMATO  PRESERVE 

4  Ibs.  green  tomatoes,  sliced  2  lemons 

2£  Ibs.  sugar  3  or  4  small  pieces  gingerroot 

Cook  until  rich  preserve. 

Mrs.  Cortelyou 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

1  doz.  navel  oranges  4  lemons 

8  Ibs.  sugar 

Do  not  peel  the  fruit  but  slice  very  thin,  rejecting  the  end  slices.  Add 
eight  pints  of  water  and  let  stand  twelve  hours;  boil  the  water  and  fruit 
together  for  three  hours;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Merk 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

12  Bitter  Sweet  oranges,  rind  of  2  grape  fruit;  rind  of  half;  juice 
half;  juice  and  pulp  of  all  and  pulp  of  all 

6  lemons;  rind  of  half;  juice  and  12  oranges,  juice  only 
pulp  of  all 

Prepare  the  fruit  and  allow  to  stand  over  night;  cook  twenty  minutes; 
add  hot  sugar  and  cook  until  it  "jells".  The  fruit  should  be  weighed  before 
cooking,  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 


M.  R.  T. 


SUNSHINE  STRAWBERRIES 


Equal  amount  of  sugar  and  fruit;  add  sufficient  water  to  the  sugar  to  dis- 
solve it;  let  this  boil  until  the  syrup  will  spin  a  hair;  then  put  in  fruit  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes;  then  place  fruit  and  syrup  on  platters  in  the  sun  on  a 
table  in  the  open  air  for  a  day  or  two  until  of  the  proper  thickness;  put  into 
jelly  glasses;  when  cool  pour  wax  on  top  of  glasses. 

Note :  Place  table  legs  in  cans  of  water  to  keep  out  ants,  and  cover  platters 
with  mosquito  netting  to  keep  out  bugs  and  flies. 

Mrs.  Shuman 

TURKISH  DATES 

1  Ib.  dates  £  cup  sugar 

\  Ib.  almonds,  blanched  1  cup  water 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  sugar  or  one-fourth  of  a  vanilla  bean 

Remove  stones  from  dates,  put  in  their  place  half  an  almond;  put  sugar 
and  water  on  stove  to  boil,  add  vanilla  sugar  or  bean,  bring  to  the  boiling 


92  RECIPES  OF  THE 


point;  add  the  dates,  cover  saucepan  and  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
until  the  dates  are  swollen  and  soft  and  the  syrup  is  dark  and  rich.  Serve  as 
any  preserve.  These  are  one  of  the  dainties  of  all  sweetmeats. 

M .  R.  T. 

COMPOTE  JAM 

5  Ibs.  stoned  cherries  \  drawer  of  loganberries 

1  drawer  of  strawberries  Sugar 

Boil  together  the  cherries,  strawberries  and  loganberries,  stirring  occasion- 
ally for  one  half  hour,  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  measure  cup  for  cup 
of  sugar  and  boil  ten  minutes. 

Mrs.  Lezinsky 

CRYSTALIZED  APPLES 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half  a  cup  of  water  and  the  juice 
and  rind  of  one  lemon;  peel  and  quarter  six  large  red -skinned  apples;  place 
them  in  a  Boston  bean  jar  and  cover  with  the  syrup;  cover  closely  and  bake 
for  two  or  three  hours.  If  cooked  too  rapidly  it  will  become  a  soft  sauce. 
The  apples  should  be  clear  and  dark  red  when  done  and  should  not  be  stirred 
during  the  cooking.  Serve  cold  with  cream. 

Mrs.  R.  J.  J. 

FIG  MARMALADE 

12  Ibs.  figs  6  oranges 

12  Ibs.  granulated  sugar  6  lemons 

Pare  and  slice  figs;  cut  the  oranges  rather  fine;  use  the  rind  of  two  lemons 
and  pulp  of  four;  let  this  cook  slowly  until  quite  thick  and  rich;  add  the  juice 
of  the  lemons  just  before  putting  in  the  jars  or  glasses.  This  amount  makes 

eighteen  glasses. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  E. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  93 


ies,  3Tam* 


Are  YOU? 


RECIPES  OF  THE 


CHILI  SAUCE 

24  large  ripe  tomatoes  \  tablespoon  allspice 

6  bell  peppers  J  tablespoon  ground  cloves 

4  large  onions  \  tablespoon  red  pepper 

3  tablespoons  salt  \  tablespoon  black  pepper 

8  tablespoons  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  English  mustard 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon  £  tablespoon  celery  seed 
6  teacups  vinegar 

Peel  the  tomatoes  and  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  boil  slowly 
two  hours. 

Mrt.  Shoup 


CHOW-CHOW 

7  Ibs.  green  tomatoes  Vinegar 

1  doz.  onions  1  Ib.  brown  sugar 

8  or  10  green  peppers  \  teacup  white  mustard  seed 
\  doz.  cucumbers  \  teacup  celery  seed 

\  pt.  salt  1  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon, 

allspice  and  cloves 

Chop  the  first  four  ingredients;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night; 
in  the  morning  strain,  cover  with  vinegar,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  strain 
again.  Boil  some  fresh  vinegar  with  the  sugar,  mustard  seed,  celery  seed  and 
spices.  When  scalding  pour  over  the  pickles  and  set  away.  Will  keep  for 
months  without  sealing. 

Mrs.  Herman* 
r 

CHOW-CHOW 

2  Ibs.  green  tomatoes  \  cup  flour 

1  cauliflower  \  cup  English  mustard 

2  onions  \  cup  sugar 

5  bell  peppers  1  teaspoon  tumeric 

6  cucumbers  2  qts.  cider  vinegar 

Chop  the  first  five  ingredients  in  rather  large  pieces;  put  in  a  brine  of 
one  cup  of  salt  to  one  gallon  of  water  for  twenty-four  hours;  then  scald  in 
brine  and  drain.  Cook  the  remaining  five  ingredients  until  they  thicken 
and  then  put  in  the  first  ingredients. 

Mrs.  Cortelyou 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 95 

CHUTNEY 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  raisins 

1  doz.  sour  apples  1  pt.  vinegar 

2  green  peppers  1  tablespoon  ginger 

1  red  pepper  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  small  onions  1  cup  lemon-juice 

J  teaspoon  red  pepper 

Put  apples,  peppers,  onions  and  raisins  through  the  meat-chopper;  then  add 
the  vinegar  and  sugar  and  boil  together  one  hour;  add  to  this  the  ginger, 
salt,  lemon  juice  and  the  red  pepper  and  boil  another  hour. 

Mrs.  Shoup 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 

Green  tomatoes,  (sliced)  Salt 

Onions,  (sliced)  Vinegar 

Mustard  to  taste  Mustard  seed 

Fill  an  agate  or  earthenware  dish  by  arranging  two  layers  of  tomatoes 
and  one  of  onions;  sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt;  let  stand  over  night;  in  the 
morning  drain  off  about  half  the  water  that  rises;  add  vinegar,  mustard  seed 
and  mustard  (previously  mixed);  boil  from  two  to  three  hours,  stirring 
frequently;  when  cold  seal  with  paraffin.  This  recipe  requires  from  five 
to  six  pounds  of  tomatoes. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  (UNCOOKED) 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  cut  fine        2  tablespoons  cloves 
4  large  red  peppers,  chopped  fine     2  tablespoons  black  pepper 
12  onions,  chopped  fine  1  tablespoon  cayenne 

4  stalks  of  celery,  chopped  fine     2  cups  sugar 
4  tablespoons  cinnamon  2  cups  salt 

2  qts.  vinegar 

Mix  onions  and  peppers  with  salt,  let  stand  over  night  and  in  the  morning 
drain  off  the  water  that  rises;  add  other  ingredients  and  bottle.  (Excellent). 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  8  tablespoons  salt 

8  large  onions  1  tablespoon  allspice 

^  Ib.  green  peppers  1  tablespoon  cloves 

\  Ib.  sugar  1  tablespoon  ginger 

1  qt.  vinegar 

Chop  fine  the  first  three  ingredients,  then  add  the  remaining  ingredients 
and  boil  two  hours  and  seal  in  Mason  jars. 

Miss  Mary  A.  Daly 


96  RECIPES  OF  THE 


PEACH  OR  APPLE  CHUTNEY 

12  Ibs.  peaches  or  apples  1  Ib.  green  ginger 

4  Ibs.  brown  sugar  J  Ib.  garlic 

2  Ibs.  Malaga  raisins  J  Ib.  mustard  seed 

1  Ib.  salt  J  Ib.  red  Chilis 

4  bottles  vinegar 

Slice  the  fruit  and  boil  in  two  bottles  of  vinegar;  make  the  sugar  into  a 
syrup  with  the  other  two  bottles  of  vinegar;  wash  and  dry  the  mustard  seed 
in  the  sun;  crush  the  seed  slightly,  then  dry.  Throw  away  the  seed  of  the 
Chilis,  and  grind  the  remainder,  also  the  garlic  and  ginger.  Grind  or  pound 
them  with  vinegar.  Boil  altogether  for  twenty  minutes.  (Very  good.) 

Mrs.  A.  M.  E. 


MUSTARD  PICKLES 

1  qt.  large  cucumbers  2  qts.  green  tomatoes 

1  qt.  small  cucumbers  3  heads  cauliflower 

2  qts.  onions  6  green  peppers 
1  cup  salt  1  gal.  water 

Slice  the  cucumbers,  the  onions,  tomatoes  and  cut  the  cauliflower  into 
small  bits;  add  to  this  the  chopped  green  peppers  and  put  altogether  into  a 
stone  jar,  with  a  brine  made  of  the  salt  and  water;  allow  this  to  stand  over 
night  and  in  the  morning  drain  the  water  off,  putting  on  fresh  water  and  cook- 
ing until  tender,  leaving  out  the  small  cucumbers.  When  tender,  drain  and 
add  the  following  dressing:  one  gallon  vinegar,  twenty-four  tablespoons 
dry  mustard,  four  cups  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  four  teaspoons  of  tumeric.  Put 
the  vinegar  on  to  boil;  add  to  this  the  mustard,  flour,  sugar  and  tumeric  wet 
with  a  little  of  the  cold  vinegar,  then  put  the  boiling  sauce  over  the  pickles 
and  allow  them  to  boil  up  once  and  bottle  immediately. 

Mrs.  King 


GREEN  TOMATO  SWEET  PICKLE 

8  Ibs.  green  tomatoes,  (chopped)   1  qt.  vinegar 
4  Ibs.  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  each  nutmeg,  cloves 

and  cinnamon 

Boil  the  tomatoes  and  sugar  three  hours,  then  add  the  other  ingredients 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes.    Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  Doane 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO         97 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLES  (UNCOOKED) 

3  pts.  ripe  but  firm  tomatoes,  (chopped)  \  pt.  or  more  sugar 
1  pt.  celery,  (chopped)  \  pt.  ripe  mustard  seed 

\  pt.  red  peppers,   (chopped)  \  teaspoon  cloves 

\  pt.  onions,  (chopped)  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

\  pt.  salt  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  pt.  vinegar 

Mix  thoroughly  together,  let  stand  a  week  before  using  and  it  will  keep 
in  a  crock  a  year. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Brown 


TOMATO  CATSUP 

Boil  sixteen  quarts  of  ripe  tomatoes,  skins  and  all;  when  soft  strain  through 
a  colander  to  remove  the  skins,  using  a  wooden  masher;  put  on  the  stove 
and  boil  again;  then  add  one-half  cup  of  salt,  one  pound  of  light  brown 
sugar,  one-fourth  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  and  one-half  ounces  each  of 
ground  allspice,  mace  and  celery  seed,  one  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon;  mix 
well  into  the  tomato;  add  one  quart  of  best  cider  vinegar,  mixing  well.  Pour 
this  into  a  sieve  that  fits  over  a  kettle  and  let  the  mixture  run  through.  Boil 
until  the  thickness  preferred,  adding  one-half  pint  good  brandy  ten  minutes 
before  the  catsup  is  finished;  bottle,  seal  tight  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  Shuman 


GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  1  oz.  allspice 

12  onions  1  oz.  ground  pepper 

£  Ib.  mustard  seed  1  bottle  mustard 

1  oz.  cloves  1  Ib.  sugar 

1  oz.  ground  ginger  Vinegar 

Slice  the  tomatoes  very  thin;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  them  remain  twenty- 
four  hours;  slice  the  onions  in  the  same  way  and  at  the  same  time;  mix  the 
mustard  seed,  cloves,  ginger,  allspice,  pepper,  and  mustard  all  well  together; 
drain  the  tomatoes;  put  a  layer  of  these  and  a  layer  of  onions  and  spices 
alternately  in  a  preserving  kettle;  add  the  sugar,  cover  with  vinegar  and 
boil  gently  until  transparent. 

Mrs.  Johns 


98  RECIPES  OF  THE 


Jfrutt  £>oup£  anb  Jfrutt 


CHERRY  SOUP 

For  one  quart  of  soup  pit  and  crush  three  cups  of  cherries;  add  to  them 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  sugar  to  taste  and  a  dessert  spoon  of  tapioca  or  sago. 
Simmer  thirty  minutes  with  a  pint  of  water;  rub  smooth  through  a  sieve 
and  reheat,  adding  one  tablespoon  of  claret  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  let  cool, 
then  place  on  ice  before  serving.  Reserve  a  few  stemmed  cherries  to  put  in 
the  soup  at  the  last. 

M  .  R.  T. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

1  qt.  water  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  heaping  teaspoon  tea  \  pt.  pineapple  or 

2  or  3  lemons  (juice  and  grated       \  pt.  grape  juice 

rind)  \  pt.  strawberries 

1  or  2  oranges  (juice  and  \  pt.  loganberries  or  red 

grated  rind)  raspberries 

A  few  slices  of  bananas 

Steep  tea  as  for  ordinary  use,  or  add  tea,  sugar,  lemons  and  oranges  to  the 
water  and  allow  to  stand  over  night;  when  ready  to  serve  strain  and  add  the 
rest  of  the  fruit  and  a  piece  of  ice.  Any  of  these  fruits  may  be  omitted  except 
the  lemons.  Loganberry  or  raspberry  jelly  will  answer  in  place  of  the  fresh 
fruit. 

Mra.  C.  J.  B. 

RASPBERRY  SYRUP 

Use  about  three  drawers  of  raspberries;  crush  and  add  one  quart  of  best 
claret;  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  it  ferments;  stir  each  day,  strain  through  a 
cloth  bag  and  weigh;  to  each  five  pounds  of  juice  add  nine  pounds  of  sugar. 
Stir  thoroughly  and  let  stand  over  night,  then  heat  very  slowly  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil;  skim  and  put  in  bottles. 

Mrs.  J.  Levy 


1  Ib.  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoon  corn-starch 

2  qts.  red  raspberries  £  pt.  sherry 

Look  the  berries  over  carefully  and  mash;  add  sugar,  and  allow  to  stand  one 
hour;  press  through  a  sieve;  heat  gradually,  stirring  frequently,  and  when 
boiling  add  the  cornstarch  which  has  been  dissolved  in  just  a  little  cold  water. 
Boil  five  minutes;  add  half  a  pint  of  sherry,  remove  at  once  and  let  cool. 
When  ready  to  serve  pour  it  over  shaved  ice  in  glasses. 

M.  R.  T. 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO  99 


eb  jdlebical  Recipes  for  Hfabalite 

ARROWROOT  BLANCMANGE  (U.  S.  Army  Hospital) 

Two  tablespoons  of  arrowroot;  two-thirds  pint  of  hot  water;  two 
tablespoons  of  sherry  or  brandy;  two  teaspoons  of  sugar.  Mix  the 
arrowroot  into  a  smooth  paste  with  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  Add  this 
to  the  hot  water.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly  till  well  blended  and 
free  from  lumps.  Let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the  sugar  and  sherry  or 
brandy.  Beat  up  quickly  and  pour  into  a  bowl  or  mould  to  cool.  Arrow- 
root blancmange  may  be  made  with  fresh  hot  milk  or  condensed  milk  diluted. 
If  boiling  water  is  used  it  causes  the  starch  of  the  arrowroot,  when  first 
poured  in,  to  form  into  lumps.  Hence  it  is  best  to  have  the  water  not  quite 
at  boiling  point. 

BEEF  ESSENCE 

Cut  the  lean  of  beef  into  small  pieces  and  place  them  in  a  wide-mouthed 
bottle  securely  corked,  and  then  allow  it  to  stand  for  several  hours  in  a  vessel 
of  boiling  water.  This  may  be  given  to  infants,  who  cannot  take  milk,  in 
teaspoon  doses,  and  in  larger  quantities  to  adults. 

BEEF  JUICE 

Broil  quickly  some  pieces  of  round  or  sirloin  of  a  size  to  fit  in  the  cavity 
of  a  lemon  squeezer  previously  heated  by  being  dipped  in  hot  water.  The 
juice,  as  it  flows  away,  should  be  received  into  a  hot  wineglass,  and,  after 
being  seasoned  to  the  taste  with  salt  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  taken 
while  hot. 

SAVOURY  CUSTARD 

Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  to  a  cup  of  beef  tea,  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Butter  a  cup  or  jam  pot,  pour  the  mixture  into  it,  and  let  it  stand  in 
a  pan  of  boiling  water  till  the  custard  is  set. 


A  GRUEL 

Beat  an  egg  to  a  froth,  add  a  wineglass  of  sherry,  flavour  with  a  lump 
of  sugar,  a  strip  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Have  ready  some 
gruel,  very  smooth  and  hot,  stir  in  the  wine  and  egg,  and  serve  with  crisp 
toast.  Arrowroot  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 


100  RECIPES  OF  THE 


HOME-MADE  LIME  WATER 

Pour  two  quarts  of  hot  water  over  fresh,  unslacked  lime  (size  of  a  walnut), 
stir  till  slacked,  let  stand  till  clear  and  bottle.  Often  ordered  with  milk  to 
neutralize  acidity  of  the  stomach. 

LINSEED  TEA 

Whole  linseed,  white  sugar,  each  one  ounce;  licorice  root,  one  half  ounce; 
lemon  juice,  two  ounces.  Mix.  An  agreeable  demulcent. 

BRAN  MUFFINS 

1  qt.  bran  §  cup  molasses 

1  pt.  white  flour  2  teaspoons  cooking  soda 

1  pt.  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  bran  and  white  flour  and  salt.  Add  molasses  in  which  the  cooking 
soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  lastly  the  sweet  milk;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty-five  minutes. 

RICE  WATER  or  MUCILAGE  OF  RICE 

Thoroughly  wash  one  ounce  of  rice  with  cold  water.  Then  macerate 
for  three  hours  in  a  quart  of  water  kept  at  a  tepid  heat,  and  afterwards  boil 
slowly  for  an  hour,  and  strain.  A  useful  drink  in  dysentery,  diarrhoea,  and 
irritable  states  of  the  alimentary  canal.  It  may  be  sweetened  and  flavoured 
in  the  same  way  as  barley  water. 

WHITE  WINE  WHEY  OR  POSSET 

To  half  pint  of  milk  while  boiling  in  a  saucepan  add  one  wineglass  of 
sherry,  and  afterwards  strain  through  a  muslin  cloth.  Sweeten  with  pounded 
sugar  according  to  taste.  A  useful  diuretic  drink  in  colds  and  mild  febrile  dis- 
orders. For  a  child,  give  a  tablespoon  every  two  or  three  hours. 

WINE  JELLY  (U.  S.  Army  Hospital) 

One  fourth  box  of  gelatine  (one  half  ounce);  one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water; 
one-half  cup  of  sugar;  one-half  cup  sherry  wine;  one  and  one-fourth  cup  of 
boiling  water;  one  small  piece  of  cinnamon.  Put  the  gelatine  and  cold  water 
together  in  a  dish  large  enough  to  hold  the  whole  mixture.  Let  it  soak  for 
an  hour,  then  pour  the  boiling  water  (in  which  the  piece  of  cinnamon  has  been 
simmering)  over  the  softened  gelatine.  Add  the  sugar  and  wine,  strain 
through  a  clean  cloth  into  a  china  or  granite-ware  mould,  and  cool  in  a  refri- 
gerator or  a  pan  of  cold  water. 

Dr.  Speigd-Atten 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 


101 


MENU 
NAMES  OF  DIFFERENT 

COUESES 

French  English 

Huitres  Oysters 

Soups 


WLintt 


Hors  d'oeuvres  Dainty  Dish  Rhine  Wine    Green 


PROPER 

TEMPERATURE  OF 
CORRECT  SERVING    GLASSES  USED  WINES 

Sauternes        Light  Green  Slightly  cold,  50-55  F. 

Sherry  Stem  Glass,  White  Slightly  cold 


Same  as  Sauternes 


Rhine  Wine 
Clarets 
Champagne 
Madeira 


Burgundy 


Green 
Pure  White 
Pure  White 
Pure  White 

White 
White 


Poisson 

Releves 

Entrees 

Entre  mets 

Sorbet 

Roti 

Gibier 

Froid 

Sucres 

Fruit  et 

Dessert 
Fromage 
Cafe 

Sauterne,  Rhine  Wine  and  Champagne  should  be  served  in  native  bottles.  Sherry, 
Claret,  Madeira  and  Port  in  decanters.  Burgundy,  native  wine  in  wicker  basket. 
Sparkling  wines  in  native  bottles. 

Mary  Robinson  Thomat 


Fish 
Removes 
Entrees 
Vegetables 
Punch 
Roast 
Game 
Cold  Dish 
Sweets 
Fruit  and 
Dessert 
Cheese 
Coffee 


Port  Wine      White 


Cognac  etLiq.  Small  White 


Even  Temp.,  65-75 
Very  cold  or  frigid 
Even  temperature 

Slightly  warm,  65-70 
Slightly  warm,  65-70 

Even  temperature 


Slta 


Wint* 


THE    WINES    CALIFORNIA    MAKES   FAMOUS 

THE  ALTA  VISTA  WINES  are  distinctly  Californian  and  are  not 
masqueraded  under  a  foreign  label  for  selling  purposes.  They  are 
known  by  numbers  and  named  after  the  district  in  California  in  which 
the  grapes  are  cultivated.  The  use  of  foreign  names,  such  as  Sauternes, 
Margaux,  Chauteau  Yquem,  etc.,  apply  to  that  species  of  vine  originally 
grown  in  the  mother  districts  of  the  Old  World,  transplanted  in  those 
districts  of  California  where  climatic  and  other  conditions  are  similar. 
THE  ALTA  VISTA  WINES  sell  on  their  superior  California  merit. 

Sauternes  (still  or  sparkling),  Sherry, 

White  Wine,  Clarets,  Burgundy,  Port 

and  Sparkling  Moselle 

ALTA  VISTA  WINES  CO. 

Main  Office,  112  Tenth  St.,  San  Francisco 
Phones,  Market  2836,  Home  J2836 


102  RECIPES  OF  THE 


SCHILLING'S  BEST  BAKING  POWDER 

Is  Recommended 
For  Its  Purity 


WOMAN'S  CLUB  OF  SAN  MATEO 108 

INDEX 

Pages 
Soups 1-  5 

Sweet  and  Savory  Salads  6-12 

Salad  Dressing  and  Relishes 13-14 

Meats    15-19 

Poultry  and  Game   20-23 

Pish    25-27 

Vegetables    28-32 

Entrees    33-40 

Breads    41-45 

Cakes  and  Cake  Fillings 46-57 

Cookies    58-61 

Pies 62-65 

Hot  Desserts  66-70 

Cold  Desserts   71-74 

Frozen   Desserts    75-77 

Sandwiches 78-80 

Chafing  Dish  Recipes    81-85 

Confections    86-89 

Jellies,  Jams  and  Marmalades 90-93 

Pickling 94-97 

Fruit  Soups  and  Fruit  Punches  98 

Tried  Medical  Recipes  for  Invalids 99-100 

Correct  Way  of  Serving  Wines    101 


ADVER  TI  SEMEN  TS 


105 


Phone  Baskette 

He  has  it 

He  will  deliver  it  right  at  once 

Anything  you  could  possibly  want 

Anything  that  an  up-to-date  drug  store  should  have 

If  it's  your  prescription  he  will  call  for  it. 

Baskette  Drug  Co. ,  Inc. 

156  B  Street,  San  Mateo,  Cal. 


Phone 
One-One 


BRIDGE,BEACH&CO§ 
"SUPERIOR" 


To  get  the  best  results  from  these  recipes,  use  a 

Bridge,  Beach  or 
Majestic  Range 

ASK  YOUR  NEIGHBOR  ABOUT  THEM 

Wisnom-Bonner 
Hardware  Company 

2nd  Ave.  and  A  St.,  San  Mateo 
Phone  347 


Electric  Fixtures 


Electric  Signs 


J.  A.  FOSTER 

Contracting  Electrician 

Electrical  Work  in  all  its  branches 
Agent  for  Reliable  Gas  Appliances 

Phone  San  Mateo  412  232  Second  Avenue 


106 


ADVER  TI  SEMEN  TS 


Phone  San  Mateo  145 

Wm.  H.  Cone 

Real  Estate  and  Fire  Insurance 

Agent  for 

Highland  Park,  El  Cerrito  Park,  Taylor  Addition 
Bowie  Estate  Company  Lands 


208  B  STREET 


SAN  MATEO 


Alt's  Shoe  Parlors 

E.H.ALT,  Proprietor 

High-Grade  Shoes 

A  Specialty 
Sole  Agency  for  the 

Nettleton  and  Walk-Over  Shoes 

139  B  Street 


San  Mateo  Phone   836 


Furniture  of  Quality 

Upholsterers 

Frederick  Smith   ^^ 


Domestic 

and 

Imported 

Hangings  in 

Cretonnes 

Papers 

to  match 


Furniture  Co. 

Carpets,  Rugs, 

Matting  and  Linoleum 

Bedding 

300-302  B  St.  Corner  Third  Ave. 
SAN  MATEO 


Cabinet 

Makers 

Polishers 

and 

Carpet 

Layers 

at  your  service 


ADVERTISEMENTS  107 


The  undersigned  supplies  service  to  San  Mateo,  Burlingame  and 

vicinity.   We  wish  to  increase  our  sales 

^^     ^^  and  are  prepared  to  render  good  service 

£  \  at  as  reasonable  a  price  as  local  condi- 

jjj  £~~\     A""^  tions  will  allow.    We  endeavor  to  give 

^L  "^MT  ^-*B     ^^^  consumers'  wants  courteous  and  prompt 

^^k^^JH    ^    Mj  L^l  attention.    We  wish  their  friendship  and 

support  and  we  solicit  the  patronage 
of  every  resident  of  San  Mateo 
and  Burlingame 

United  Gas  and  Electric  Co. 

San  Mateo  Lumber  Co. 

Building  Materials 

"C"  Street  and  First  Ave. 

SAN  MATEO  CALIFORNIA 

J '.  F.  McGOWAN  &  CO.,  try  to  be  progressive  in 

Plumbing,  Heating,  Tinning 

By  our  system  of  connecting  boilers  and  ranges  you  get  instantaneous  hot  water. 
We  repair  French  ranges,  we  regulate  your  gas  stoves  so  they  burn  air,  and 
make  no  soot  or  odor.  We  stop  the  odor  of  sewer  gas,  so  you  can  smell  the  fry- 
ing onions,  and  stop  your  faucets  from  pounding  and  singing  so  you  can  hear 
the  fire  burning,  or  tea-pot  boiling.  Phones  778  and  779, 210  1st  Ave.,  San  Mateo 

Buy 

San  Mateo  Creamery  Butter 

Then  you  are  sure  you  get  the 

Freshest  and  Finest  in  Town 

CHURNED  DAILY 
San  Mateo  Creamery  Opposite  S.  P.  Depot 


108  ADVER  TISEMEN  TS 


Wilson,  Ross  &  Co. 

Inc. 
Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in 

Hay,  Grain,  Coal,  Wood 

Agents  Union  Ice  Co. 

First  and  Railroad  Avenues  220  Middlefield  Road 

SAN  MATEO,  CAL.  BURLINGAME,  CAL. 

Phone  64  Phone  305 


Everything-  Good  to  Eat  and 
Drink  can  be  had  at 

Lorton  &  Morken  Co. 

Burlingame 

Phone  492  Haviland  Ware  and  Cut  Glass 


Jas.  W.  Pengelley,  Mgr.  Phone  254  Ernest  Wilson 


If  it's  in  the  Candy  line  — 

Wilson  has  it! 
Looking  for  a  sundae  fine  ? 

Wilson  has  it! 

Or  if  you  wish  to  both  combine 
And  take  your  friends  on  sweets  to  dine 
And  feast  on  ices  superfine 

Wilson  has  it! 

144  B  Street  San  Mateo,  California 


ADVERTISEMENTS  109 


A  Few  Recipes  Not  Heretofore  Mentioned 

How  to  get  a  picture  framed 

Take  it  to  JOHNSTONE- JONES 

How  to  subscribe  for  a  paper  or  magazine 

Go  ask  JOHNSTONE- JONES 

How  to  get  stationery  of  all  kinds 

Buy  it  from  JOHNSTONE- JONES 

How  to  find  JOHNSTONE- JONES 

Go  to  310  Second  Ave.,  San  Mateo 


New  California  Market 

Cor.  Burlingame  Ave.  and  Middlefield  Road. 
Dealers  in  Choice  Quality 

Beef,  Mutton,  Lamb,  Veal,  Pork,  Ham 
Lard,  Fish  and  Poultry 

ORDERS  CALLED  FOR  AND  DELIVERED  Phone  650  Burlingame 


Brown's  Garage 

C.  J.  Brown,  Proprietor 

Automobiles  Repaired  and  Supplies  Furnished 

350  B  Street        Phone  Mateo  57 


Press  of 

Sunset  Publishing  House 
San  Francisco 


