REFUGEES' 
COOK  BOOK 


COMPILED  BY   ONE  OF  THEM 


Patron 

MRS.  JOHN  F.  MERRILL 

MRS.  C  T.  DEANE 

MRS.  W.  B.  WILSH1RE 

MRS.  E,  A.  COULT 

MRS.  FRANK  JOHNSON 

MRS.  J.  L.  MARTELL 

MRS.T.  M.  EARL 

MRS.  ALE!XANDER  WARNER 

MRS.  E.  P.  HEALD 

MRS.  PENNELL  McCLURE 

MRS.  A.  S.  JOHNSON 

MRS.  E.  B.  YOUNG 

MISS  LINDA  KRUG 

MRS.  BENJAMIN  WILK1NS 


PREFACE 


This  little  book  of  recipes  has  been  com- 
piled for  the  benefit  of  those  who  have  lost 
their  cook  books  in  our  great  disaster. 

Every  recipe  has  been  tried  and  tested 
and  in  the  next  edition  there  will  be  many 
tiseful  suggestions  and  more  recipes,  explained 
so  understandingly  that  any  one,  no  matter 
how  inexperienced  can  prepare  without  diffi- 
cultv. 


S.  F.    Archives  Reprint  No.    1 
S.  F.    History  Room 
Main  Library,    Civic  Center 
San  Francisco  CA  94102 


©1979  S.  F.    Archives 


COPYRIGHT  APPLIED  FOR 


SAN  FRANCISCO 
HISTORY  CENTER 

(pHi.SYwry 

San  Francisco  Public  Library 


STACKS 
REFERENCE  BOOK 

Not  to  be  taken  from  the  Library 
3  1223  06288  8020 


Soups 


Soup  should  always  be  made  from  uncooked  meat,  of  one 
kind;  do  not  mix  mutton,  beef  or  veal  together,  or  use 
cooked  meat  with  raw. 

Take  a  shank  of  beef  and  crack  the  bones  well;  put  on 
to  cook  in  a  large  porcelain  kettle  in  cold,  unsalted  water; 
to  this  add  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  tops  of  celery,  two 
onions,  parsley,  bay  leaf,  one  red  pepper;  keep  the  pot  cov- 
ered and  let  cook  slowly  four  or  five  hours,  until  meat  falls 
from  the  bones  and  vegetables  well  cooked.  I  sometimes 
put  in  with  it  the  shells  from  two  eggs,  as  it  clarifies. 
Strain  through  a  colander,  after  which  strain  through 
cheese  cloth;  put  in  an  earthen  bowl  and  cover;  let  cool 
and  remove  fat ;  from  this  stock  you  can  make  by  adding 
vegetables  chopped,  fine  vegetable  soup,  tomatoes  and  rice, 
rice  tomato,  noodles,  vermicilla,  or  macaroni  or  boullion. 
If  you  wish  to  make  mutton,  veal,  or  chicken  soups,  follow 
same  directions.  To  darken  soup  use  teaspoonful  of  caro- 
mel. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP 

Beat  up  two  eggs  light,  add  a  teaspoon  level  of  salt; 
knead  in  as  much  sifted  flour  as  you  can;  roll  out  on  a 
floured  board,  let  dry  somewhat;  roll  over  and  over  after 
flouring  and  cut  very  fine ;  let  dry  and  drop  in  hot  soup ; 
cook  five  or  ten  minutes;  this  is  very  good  cooked  like  mac- 
aroni, with  cheese,  tomato,  etc 

TOMATO  SOUP 

One-half  can  of  tomatoes  cooked  in  one-half  pint  of  water 
with  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  one  bay  leaf;  cook  one-half 


hour,  strain;  add  a  pinch  of  soda;  place  a  pint  of  milk  in 
double  boiler,  heat  to  boiling;  cream  a  cooking  spoon  of 
butter  and  flour;  stir  in  and  let  thicken;  add  tomato;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

POTATO  SOUP 

Boil  three  large  potatoes  soft,  mash  and  strain;  return 
to  stove;  add  one  pint  of  boiling  milk;  brown  a  tablespoon 
of  butter ;  strain ;  add  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley ;  let 
boil  ten  minutes  in  double  boiler. 

SPANISH  BEAN 

Take  a  knuckle  of  ham  about  three  pounds,  pour  boiling- 
water  over  it  and  clean  well;  put  it  on  to  boil  in  cold  wat- 
er; when  half  done,  add  one  quart  of  small  red  Spanish 
beans;  let  cook  together  an  hour;  add  to  this  one-half  a 
small  cabbage,  two  turnips,  two  carrots,  three  onions,  one- 
half  a  can  tomatoes,  a  long  red  pepper,  parsley,  two  bay 
leaves,  four  whole  cloves,  six  whole  black  peppers;  let  all 
cook  together  until  soft  enough  to  pass  through  a  colendar, 
using  a  potato  masher  to  crush  ingredients  fine ;  remove  the 
ham  before  straining,  put  it  back  on  the  stove  and  heat 
again  and  pass  through  colendar  again  without  crushing; 
stir  with  spoon ;  put  mixture  in  a  double  boiler  as  it  burns 
easily ;  add  a  wine  glass  of  Madera,  or  sherry  wine ;  a  ta- 
blespoon of  Worcestershire  sauce ;  when  you  serve  it  put 
a  slice  of  lemon  in  each  plate,  or  crutons  of  bread,  well  fried 
in  butter,  or  sweet  lard. 

EGG  BALLS  FOR  SOUP 

Boil  four  eggs  hard,  mash  the  yolks  with  one  raw  yolk; 
add  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  and  chopped 
parsley;  form  into  balls  and  drop  into  soup. 

Caromel  to  make  soups  and  stews,  dark  color;  put  two 
cups  granulated  sugar  in  hot  frying  pan  without  any  wat- 
er; stir  constantly  until  very  dark  color;  add  teaspoonful  to 
soups,  stews,  or  gravies. 


Salads 

To  make  good  salad  you  must  have  all  the  ingredients 
chilled;  either  plate  on  ice,  or  keep  in  cold  water  some  time 
before  using. 

WITH  FRENCH  DRESSING 

Carefully  pick  over  your  lettuce  removing  all  coarse  parts 
— if  wet  dry  every  leaf  by  placing  on  a  linen  towel  and  wip- 
ing dry.  Place  in  a  salad  bowl,  salt  and  pepper,  red  is  best, 
to  taste;  add  four  tablespoons  of  best  salad  oil;  mix  thor- 
oughly; add  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar;  mix  again;  I  some- 
times add  a  hard  boiled  egg  chopped  fine,  a  quarter  of  a 
spoon  of  mustard  dissolved  in  a  half  teaspoon  of  Worcer- 
tershire  sauce,  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped  fine. 

SHRIMP  SALAD 

Make  a  mayonaise  dressing:  slice  white  part  of  a  head 
of  celery  and  mix  with  shrimps  and  mayonaise  dressing; 
garnish  with  lettuce  leaves  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  either 
chopped  fine  or  cut  in  quarters;  can  also  serve  in  tomato 
or  prinento  shells ;  crab  can  be  served  same. 

STUFFED  EGG  SALAD 

Chop  fine  a  green  cucumber  pickle,  a  raw  green  pepper, 
one-half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  small  onion,  a  raddish, 
four  sticks  of  celery;  boil  one  dozen  eggs  hard,  cut  them 
lengthwise,  remove  yolks,  and  rub  them  smooth;  mix  with 
the  other  ingredients  which  must  be  chopped  fine;  chop  up 
four  or  five  anchovies  or  sardines;  chop  the  shrimps  a  lit- 
tle; add  salt  and  pepper  and  enough  oil  and  vinegar  to 


make  smooth,  but  not  too  soft;  fill  the  white  of  egg  with 
mixture;  place  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  garnish  with  olives 
and  sliced  lemon  on  top  of  each  egg. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Boil  potatoes  in  boiling  water  until  they  slice  without 
breaking;  chop  or  cut  in  cubes  adding  a  portion  of  green 
onions,  a  radish  or  two  and  five  hard  boiled  eggs,  celery 
chopped,  a  small  quantity  of  Eddy's  mustard;  salt  and  pep- 
per; make  a  mayonaise  dressing;  mix  all  together,  place 
on  platter;  garnish  with  lettuce  leaves  and  olives. 

VEGETABLE   SALAD 

Boil  one  pint  of  string  beans;  four  or  five  carrots  and 
beets;  one-half  pint  of  green  peas;  one-half  head  of  cauli- 
flower; cut  up  four  or  five  pieces  of  celery,  sliced  length- 
wise in  pieces  an  inch  long;  three  tomatoes;  two  green  pep- 
pers; one  head  Romaine  lettuce;  chill  all  these  ingredients 
in  ice  chest,  after  draining  all  water  from  them;  place  all 
together  in  a  large  salad  bowl ;  salt  and  pepper  and  mix  in 
thoroughly  four  or  five  large  spoons  of  best  salad  oil,  and 
three  large  spoons  of  vinegar;  I  sometimes  use  a  half  tea- 
spoon of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  quarter  spoon  of  mus- 
tard; dissolve  in  it  with  the  vinegar;  you  must  keep  this  in 
cool  place  and  mix  just  before  serving. 


Fish 


CRAB  A  LA  CREOLE 

Two  boiled  crabs  picked  fine;  slice  two  onions  and  fry 
in  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  till  brown;  add  two  tea- 
cups stewed  tomatoes;  add  crab,  one  chili  pepper  cut  fine, 
and  salt ;  when  cooked  add  one  teacup  of  cream,  a  little 
thickening  and  parsley;  do  not  put  in  crab  until  vegetables 
are  all  cooked 

CLAM  COCKTAILS  SERVED  IN  GREEN  PEPPER 
CUPS 

Cut  off  the  stem  end  of  as  many  small  bell  peppers  as 
there  are  persons  to  be  served:  remove  the  seeds  from  each 
pepper;  put  three  or  four  small  little  neck  clams  in  the 
hollow  of  each  pepper,  pour  over  them  sauce  made  as  fol- 
lows :  Mix  well  one-half  pint  of  tomato  catsup,  the  juice 
of  one  large  lemon;  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice;  ten 
dashes  of  tabasco  sauce;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  horseradish,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  very  finely  chopped  parsley;  set  on  ice  until 
thoroughly  chilled  and  stir  a  little  cracked  ice  through  the 
mixture;  lay  a  lettuce  leaf  on  each  plate;  stand  the  pepper 
on  the  leaf  one  to  each  person;  after  the  peppers  are  filled 
with  the  clams  and  sauce  put  on  the  slice  with  stem  and 
serve;  oysters  may  be  served  in  the  same  way. 

CLAM  CHOWDER 

Two  dozen  clams;  separate  the  bellies  from  tough  part 
and  remove  black  part  and  skin ;  chop  up  the  tough  part 


fine;  fry  an  onion  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork  cut 
up  in  small  pieces;  cut  up  two  or  three  good  sized  potatoes 
in  cubes  and  put  them  in  cold  water  to  harden;  chop  up 
some  parsley  dry ;  cream  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  teaspoon 
of  flour;  use  a  double  boiler;  put  the  clam  you  have  chop- 
ped into  a  pint  of  water  cold ;  put  the  potatoes  on  to  cook  in 
a  separate  kettle;  when  cooked  not  broken  up  pour  off 
the  water  and  add  to  the  clams ;  add  pork  and  onion ;  heat 
a  pint  of  milk  and  pour  with  it;  last  add  the  clam  bellies 
and  flour;  break  up  hard  tack  crackers,  place  them  in  a 
soup  dish  and  pour  all  over. 


FRICASSEE  OF  OYSTERS 

Put  one  quart  or  twenty-five  oysters  in  their  own  liquor; 
the  moment  they  begin  to  boil  drain  juice  off  through  a 
colendar;  put  butter  size  of  an  egg  in  a  saucepan  when  it 
begins  to  bubble;  sprinkle  in  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch 
wet  with  a  little  milk ;  let  it  cook  a  moment  with  changing 
color  stirring  it  well,  then  add  and  mix  well  one-half  cupful 
of  oyster  liquor,  one-half  cupful  of  milk  (boiled  first)  ;  take 
it  from  the  fire  and  mix  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  and  one  grat- 
ing of  nutmeg;  beat  it  well,  then  return  to  five  to  set  eggs 
without  boiling,  add  the  oysters;  fill  pattie  shells  with  the 
mixture. 

OYSTER  PIE 

One  and  a  half  dozen  ears  of  corn  grated  and  fried  in 
butter;  one  quart  of  oysters  or  twenty-five  fresh  oysters; 
fried  in  a  little  butter;  one  small  chopped  onion,  two  to- 
matoes, sprig  of  parsley,  pinch  of  tyme,  one-half  cracker 
crushed;  after  frying  this  add  some  of  the  oyster  juice,  ta- 
blespoonful  of  oil,  let  it  stew  awhile;  spread  some  of  the 
corn  in  pudding  dish,  add  the  oysters  and  cover  with  rest 
of  com.  and  bake  a  light  brown. 


CRAB  SOUTHERN  STYLE 

Pick  up  the  meat  of  two  crabs  fine;  one  pint  of  bread 
crumbs,  stale,  ground  fine;  two  eggs  beaten  well,  two  cups 
of  milk,  pinch  of  cloves,  red  pepper  and  dry  mustard,  wine 
glass  sherry  wine!  mix  the  eggs  with  crab,  add  bread 
crumbs  and  milk  and  spices;  mix  thoroughly;  place  two 
large  spoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  put  in  mixture  and 
let  heat  through,  remove  from  fire  and  add  sherry  wine; 
butter  a  pudding  dish,  put  in  mixture,  cover  with  bread 
crumbs  with  pieces  of  butter  and  slices  of  lemon  on  top 
lengthwise,  about  four  slices;  cook  twenty  minutes  until 
brown ;  serve  with  piec  es  of  lemon  on  hot  plates. 

DOWN  EAST  COD  FISH 

Put  a  half  a  cod  fish  to  soak  over  night  in  luke  warm 
water;  two  hours  before  dinner  plunge  in  very  cold  water; 
set  over  the  fire  in  enough  warm  water  to  cover  and  sim- 
mer, not  boil,  for  a  half  hour;  drain  well  and  lay  .on  a 
hot  platter  and  pour  over  it  an  egg  sauce  made  with  two 
boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine;  take  a  spoonful  of  butter,  rub 
into  it  a  spoonful  of  flour,  add  hot  water  or  milk,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  well ;  pour 
over  fish  and  sprinkle  chopped  egg  over  the  top;  with  this 
serve  boiled  beets,  boiled  potatoes,  carrots  and  turnips. 

COD  FISH  BALLS 

Four  cups  boiled  potatoes  (cooked  fresh),  three  cups 
codfish  minced  fine,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  egg  well  beaten ; 
beat  all  together  until  light  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

CLAM  CREOLE 

Boil  three  or  four  large  sweet  potatoes  until  soft;  peel 
and  mash  through  a  sieve;  take  two  dozen  clams,  separate 
hard  part  from  bellies,  and  chop  fine,  remove  black  part 
from  bellies  and  the  skin  part;  leave  whole;  now  reason 
your  potato  with   salt,  pepper  and   melted   butter;   put  a 


layer  of  potato,  in  well  buttered  earthen  dish;  spread  in  a 
layer  of  clams  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  a  little  clam 
juice  and  milk;  alternate  layers  having  sweet  potato  on 
top;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  place  four  or  live 
slices  of  lemon  on  top;  put  in  oven  and  let  cook  twenty 
minutes;  be  careful  not  to  make  it  too  dry. 

cmrriNE 

Take  a  good  sized  solid  piece  of  fish  (bass  or  white  fish) 
put  in  a  pot  with  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one  onion  sauted  in 
butter,  two  pepper  pods,  one  bay  leaf,  juice  of  one  dozen 
clams,  cook  briskly  one  hour;  fifteen  minutes  before  serv- 
ing add  one  dozen  clam  bellies. 


NO  NONSENSE  IN  MY  KITCHEN!   " 


Entrees 

KIDNEY  SAUTE 

Remove  strings  from  lamb  or  calf  kidneys  and  soak  in 
void  water;  cut  up  in  small  pieces;  melt  some  suet  and 
brown  kidneys  i  and  small  onion  if  desired)  well,  then 
sprinkle  with  flour  and  brown;  add  hot  water,  bay  leaf  and 
red  pepper;  cook  slowly  about  one  hour  before  serving;  add 
one  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine;  serve  on  toast. 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI 

Take  three-pound  round  of  beef,  brown  thoroughly  in  a 
tablespoon  of  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings  from  suet,  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  little  flour  sprinkled  over;  when  thoroughly 
browned  add  one-half  can  of  tomatoes,  one  small  carrot  cut 
fine,  four  sticks  of  celery,  one  bay  leaf,  one  large  onion  cut 
fine,  onethird  cup  of  dried  mushrooms  soaked  or  three 
cups  of  fresh ;  cook  three  hours  slowly  until  meat  is  very 
tender;  boil  about  three  pints  of  spaghetti  in  well  salted 
water  a  half  hour,  strain  and  blanche  in  cold  water,  put  in 
a  dripping  pan  and  heat  in  oven;  have  ready  a  hot  plat- 
ter; place  spaghetti  in  a  thick  layer;  pour  sauce  from  meat 
over  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  parmesian  cheese 

SPANISH  RICE 

Wash  thoroughly  three  cups  of  rice ;  take  two  onions  and 
saute  in  hot  lard  or  butter  until  brown;  add  one  half  can 
of  tomatoes  and  one-half  can  of  water,  two  small  red  pep- 
pers ;  to  this  sauce  add  your  rice  and  cook  one-half  hour  un- 
til rice  is  done;  season  well  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper; 
one  can  also  cook  macaroni  in  this  style 

SPANISH  BEANS 

Wash  one  pint  pink  beans;  cover  with  water;  add  small 
piece  of  bacon;  cook  slowly  one  hour;  take  out  bacon;  add 


four  large  onions  and  four  long  red  peppers  chopped  finer 
one  bay  leaf,  one  can  tomatoes;  cook  slowly  two  hours  un- 
til gravy  becmes  thickened;  if  salt  is  added  too  soon  it 
hardens  the  beans 

CORN  OYSTERS 

Grate  the  young  corn  into  a  dish — to  one  pint  add  one 
egg  well  beaten,  one  small  teacup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  cream, 
teaspoon  of  salt,  drop  into  a  hot  buttered  pan  a  teaspoonful 
at  a  time  and  brown  well. 

ITALERINI    SAUCE 

Place  a  pat  of  unsalted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  slice  four 
large  onions  and  a  large  clove  of  garlic,  all  to  butter  and 
fry  light  brown;  add  one-half  can  of  tomatoes,  one  whole 
red  pepper,  a  pinch  of  thyme  sprig  of  parsley,  a  bay  leaf, 
four  whole  black  peppers;  let  all  of  this  cook  thoroughly  to- 
gether; press  through  a  sieve,  return  to  stove  and  add  three 
tablespoons  of  olive  oil. 

Place  two  pounds  of  spaghetti  in  salted  boiling  water  and 
cook  a  good  half  hour;  blanche  in  cold  water;  put  in  a 
porcelain  dripping  pan  a  layer  of  spaghetti  and  a  layer  of 
sauce,  and  sprinkle  with  Parmesian  cheese,  alternating,  un- 
til you  have  three  layers ;  set  in  oven  and  let  heat  through ; 
serve  on  hot  platter  and  plates 

RABBIT  CURRY 

One  rabbit,  one  large  spoonful  of  curry  powder,  one-half 
a  dessertspoon  of  curry  paste,  one  large  onion,  one  large 
sour  apple,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter,  dashes  of  ba- 
con, little  flour,  one  pint  good  stock;  stir  in  curry  powder 
and  paste  and  pour  in  the  stock;  cut  the  rabbit  in  small 
pieces;  cut  bacon  into  little  square  bits;  place  in  stew  pan 
and  let  cook  slowly  one  hour  or  until  meat  will  leave  bones, 
and  the  sauce  thickens;  pour  off  all  fat  and  serve  with 
boiled  rice;  chicken  may  be  prepared  same  way  or  veal; 
season  to  taste. 


Meats 

BOAST  BEEF 

In  roasting  meat  have  oven  Lot;  place  a  piece  of  suet  on 
bottom  of  dripping  pan;  salt  and  pepper  roast  and  place  in 
pan;   turn  frequently:   do  not  nse  any  water. 

BOILED  MUTTON  CAPER  SAUCE 

Place  a  leg  of  mutton  in  large  pot  or  a  steamer,  cover 
tight,  and  place  around  it  an  onion,  carrot  and  turnip, 
sprig  of  parsley  and  bay  leaf;  when  tender  remove  from 
lire,  and  place  in  a  dripping  pan.  and  let  brown  in  oven, 
using  a  little  fat  to  prevent  burning;  baste  frequently; 
take  a  half  pint  of  the  water  from  kettle  it  has  steamed  or 
boiled  in;  add  a  half  bottle  of  capers,  a  little  cream,  piece 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  thicken  with  a  little  flour;  use 
some  of  the  vinegar  capers  are  in;  cook  sauce  well  and 
serve  with  the  mutton;  do  not  bake  mutton  too  long  only 
brown. 

REFUGEE  STEW 

Take  three  pounds  of  round  of  beef  cut  in  medium-sized 
pieces;  take  two  good  sized  onions  and  fry  brown  in  beef 
dripping;  fry  meat  after  sprinkling  with  flour  in  the  onions 
very  brown  turning  frequently;  put  it  in  a  stew  kettle  and 
cover  with  boiling  water;  let  cook  very  slowly  three  hours, 
adding  boiling  water  as  it  cooks  down;  an  hour  before 
serving  add  three  carrots,  three  turnips,  potatoes,  parsnip, 
parsley,  bay  leaf;  thicken  it  with  one-half  cup  of  flour  and 
ceas]K»on  of  caromel;  be  very  careful  not  to  burn;  don't 
sise  cold  water  or  too  much  grease. 


SPANISH   MEAT    BALLS 

Grind  very  fine  2  pounds  of  lean  veal;  take  one-third  aa 
much  sliced  stale  bread;  cover  with  hot  milk;  when  it 
softens  beat  it  to  a  cream;  add  this  to  the  meat;  beat  up 
two  eggs,  a  handful  of  seeded  raisins;  cut  in  half;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste ;  sprinkle  of  cinnamon ;  heaping  teaspoon 
of  sugar;  beat  thoroughly  all  together. 

Sauce — Take  two  medium-sized  onions,  sliced;  saute  in 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  or  half  drippings;  add  half  a  can 
of  tomatoes  and  1  Chile  pepper,  cut  up  fine,  and  a  teaspoon 
of  chopped  parsley,  and  one  bay  leaf. 

Form  the  mixture  into  balls,  or  pear-shaped,  and  drop 
into  sauce;  cook  twenty  minutes.  If  sauce  thickens  too 
much,  add  hot  water,  as  it  burns  easily.  Serve  on  hot  plat- 
ter, and  stick  a  sprig  of  parsley  in  each  ball. 

PIGS  FEET 

Clean  well  and  boil  thoroughly  six  pigs'  feet;  slowly; 
make  a  sauce  of  three  large  spoons  of  horseradish,  cup  of 
soup  stock,  a.  little  sugar,  and  tablespoon  of  whole  mustard 
seed,  tablespoon  vinegar;  pour  over  pigs'  feet  hot. 

SCALLOP  OF  VEAL 

Chop  the  remains  of  cold  veal — first  season  with  pepper 
and  salt — put  a  layer  of  dry  bread  crumbs  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish;  stick  bits  of  butter  over  it;  cover  with  meat 
and  wet  with  gravy  and  warm  milk;  repeat  this  order  in 
strata  until  the  dish  is  filled,  covering  deep  with  bread 
crumbs;  fit  a  tin  cover  on  top  and  bake  one-half  hour;  re- 
move cover  and  let  brown  on  top. 

MEAT   PIE 

Cut  cold  cooked  meat  into  thin  slices,  remove  all  gristle 
and  fat  except  crisp  outside  fat;  put  into  baking  dish  and 
cover  with  meat  gravy  or  tomato  sauce.  Spread  a  crust  of" 
mashed  potatoes  over  the  meat  (don't  pat  crust,  but  drop 
lightly)  ;  pour  beaten  egg  over  the  top  or  sprinkle  with 
cracker  crumbs,  and  cook  20  minutes  until  brown. 


Desserts 


ROCKS 

One  clip  butter  (large),  three  cups  flour,  two  cups  granu- 
lated sugar,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  boiling 
water,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  allspice,  one 
pound  of  dates,  two  pounds  of  walnuts;  cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  eggs  unbeaten,  then  Hour;  beat  it  a  good  deal 
with  hand:  flour  nuts  and  -dales  and  put  in  last;  drop  in  a 
buttered  pan  by  the  spoonful  in  small  dabs,  as  it  spreads 
in  oven.  Bake  quiekh . 

CREAM   TUFFS 

One  <up  of  boiling  water;  add  one  half  cup  butter;  when 
melted  add  one  cup  sifted  flour;  stir  constantly  until  well 
mixed:  remove  from  fire  and  beat  five  minutes;  set  to  cool; 
then  add  three  unbeaten  eggs;  beat  Ten  minutes  and  drop 
from  spoon  on  buttered  pans.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  25 
minutes;  when  cool  open  with  sharp  knife  and  fill  Avith 
charlotte  russe  cream  or  soft  cornstarch  custard. 

WALNUT   WAFERS 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  eup  broken  walnuts,  four 
heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  two  eggs,  salt,  pinch  of  bak- 
ing powder;  beat  sugar  and  eggs  together,  then  add  flour 
and  walnuts  last;  drop  from  spoon  on  greased  pan.  Bake 
in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

COOKIES 

Two  nips  of  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three-quarters  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  eiigs.  five  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder.     Roll  thin  and  bake  quickly. 


PRUNE    SOUFFLE 

Stew  dried  prunes  well  done  (about  one  pound)  ;  take 
out  pits  and  chop  fine;  take  a  heaping  spoonful  and  add 
two  tablespoons  of  white  sugar;  mix  them  together;  beat 
the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth ;  mix  all  thoroughly 
together.  Put  in  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  with  egg  until 
well  set;  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

COMPANY  CAKE 

Two  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  sifted  into  three  cups  of 
flour;  four  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup 
cold  water;  one-half  cup  melted  butter;  keep  out  one  egg 
and  add  last. 

DELICIOUS  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three 
cups  sifted  flour,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  yeast  powder, 
small  cup  milk ;  beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream ;  add  yolks 
well  beaten,  then  milk,  then  flour  and  yeast  powder,  last 
whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  and  stirred  in  lightly. 

NUT  CAKE 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cup  sifted  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons yeast  powder,  one  large  cup  chopped  walnuts.  Bake 
in  square  tin,  frost  and  cut  the  frosting  in  squares  and 
place  a  nut  on  each  square. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  yolks  to 
a  cream  with  one  large  cup  of  sugar;  mix  whites  and  yolks 
together  and  flavor  with  fresh  lemon ;  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  one  large 
spoonful  of  water.  Do  not  stir  it  any  more  than  you  can 
help  after  adding  flour. 


FILLING  FOR  CAKES 
ORANGE 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  beaten  eggs,  juice  and  grated 
outside  rind  of  orange;  boil  all  together  until  it  thickens 'r 
let  cool  and  spread  between  layer  cakes. 

LEMOX  FILLING 

Three  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup 
sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut ;  boil  a  few  minutes, 
let  cool  and  spread  between  layer  cakes. 

CAROM EL  FILLING 

Stick  grated  chocolate,  mixed  to  a  paste  with  milk,  two 
eggs  beaten,  one  cup  sugar;  boil  ten  minutes;  let  cool  and 
spread  between  layer  cakes. 

APPLE  CAKE 

Make  a  mixture  out  of  one  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoons 
of  Royal  baking  powder,  little  salt  and  one  pint  of  milk, 
one  tablespoon  of  lard  and  one  of  butter;  mix  lard,  butter, 
and  Hour  and  baking  powder  together  thoroughly  with  your 
hands;  add  milk  and  stir  all  together;  grease  a  long  pan 
and  drop  the  mixture  in,  spreading  out  with  a  spoon  cpiite 
thin.  Peal,  core  and  slice  good  cooking  apples;  stick  them 
in  in  rows  all  over  dough,  cover  with  sugar,  sprinkle  with 
cinnamon  and  put  little  pieces  of  butter  all  over.  Bake  in 
oven,  careful  not  to  burn  apples. 

RICE   PUDDING 

Three-quarters  cup  of  rice,  boiled  dry  in  double  boiler 
in  one  pint  of  water;  add  one  pint  boiling  milk  and  cook 
nearly  dry ;  one  half  cup  brown  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten 
separately,  a  little  salt,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon;  mix  .well 
together  and  put  in  pudding  dish  and  let  cook  in  oven  a 
few  minutes  until  set.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs,  add  to 
them  juice  of  lemon  and  three  spoons  of  sugar;  spread  on 
top  of  pudding  and  let  brown. 


.       PRUNE   PIE 

Two  pounds  of  dried  prunes  soaked  over  night,  stew 
thoroughly,  add  sugar;  when  done  remove  pits  and  chop 
a  little;  add  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  pinch  of  cloves. 
Line  a  pie  tin  with  puff  paste,  fill  with  mixture  and  bake; 
add  some  of  the  juice.  When  done  make  a  meringue  of 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar;  beat  until 
very  light;  brown  in  oven. 

MINCE  PIE 

Take  eight  pounds  of  beef  off  the  round,  boil  slowly  until 
tender  in  sufficient  water  to  prevent  burning;  chop,  not  fine 
but  coarsely,  as  much  depends  upon  this;  one-half  cup  of 
salt;  four  pounds  of  kidney  suet;  remove  strings  and  skin 
and  chop  fine.  Now  take  a  quart  bowl  and  measure  the 
meat,  and  to  each  bowl  of  meat  use  three-quarters  bowl  of 
suet,  one  bowl  of  seeded  raisins,  three-quarters  bowl  of  cur- 
rants, one  piece  of  citron  and  lemon  peel  chopped  fine.  For 
the  juice,  if  you  have  any  spiced  fruit,  peaches  preferred, 
use  the  fruit  and  juice,  chopping'  fine.  I  always  put  up 
peaches  especially  for  this  purpose,  using  to  seven  pounds 
of  peaches  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  and  a.  pint 
of  vinegar;  heat  and  strain;  pour  over  fruit  three  mornings 
in  succession;  the  last  morning  boil  juice  a  little  longer, 
adding  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace  tied  up  in  a  bag.  Now 
mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  place  on  stove  and  let 
heat  through;  when  cold  add  one  quart  of  best  Cognac 
hrandy;  seal  up  in  jars.  You  will  find  this  a  fine  recipe  if 
followed  out  as  directed. 


ADD    TO    THE    ABOVE    MINCE    PIE    RECIPE 

One  bowl  apples,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon 
cloves,  one  teaspoon  mace  and  one  teaspoon  allspice. 


Ices 

ICE  CREAM 

Three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  separately,  two  teacups 
granulated  sugar;  yolks  of  the  three  eggs  beaten  light  added 
to  sugar  and  beaten  to  a  cream ;  two  teaspoons  vanilla. 
Mix  with  this  one  quart  of  cream  and  one  pint  of  milk. 
strain  through  a  sieve;  add  the  beaten  whites  last  and 
freeze. 

PEACH  ICE  CREAM 

Take  white  peaches,  peel  and  mash,  sweeten  to  taste;  add 
one  pint  of  cream  and  one  pint  of  milk;  freeze. 

PINEAPPLE  WATER  ICE 

XTse  grated  pineapple,  one  can;  add  a  lemon  and  water 
and  sweeten  to  taste;  place  in  a  freezer;  when  set  add  the 
white  of  a  well  beaten  egg;  continue  to  freeze.  Serve  with 
lady  fingers  on  side  of  plate. 

LEMON   WATER    ICE 

One  pint  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pints  cold  water;  boil 
down  to  a  quart  like  syrup,  cool,  add  juice  of  eight  lemons; 
freeze  when  set;  add  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  and 
continue  to  freeze. 

LOVERS'  DELIGHT 

Take  a  half  dozen  bananas,  split  open  one  division,  drop 
Ice  cream  in  shell  with  banana  and  garnish  with  mara 
schino  cherry.    A  pretty  dish. 


Refugee  Filter 


Take  a  tomato  can  and  perforate  the  bottom  with  holes; 
cover  the  bottom,  with  a  layer  of  cotton  batting  and  place 
five  or  six  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  charcoal  over  it- 
Pour  the  boiling  water  in  and  let  filter  through.  The  water- 
will  be  clear  and  free  from  sediment. 

To  clear  your,  house  or  tent  of  flies — Put  a  tablespoonfiil 
or  cayenne  pepper  in  a  pan  over  the  fire  and  let  burn ;  opera 
door,  or  window,  and  they  will  soon  all  disappear. 


