The 

Rural  Cook  Book 


'Some  hae  meaf  that  canna  eat, 
And  some  wad  eat  that  want  it» 
But  we  hae  meat,  and  we  can  eat. 
So  let  the  Lord  be  thankdt." 

— Bums. 


Publiab«d  by 

THE  RURAL  NEW-YORKER 

New  York 


BO:'' 

libk/ 


'M 


■v^f.i,,..       ^^:^ 


\-^; 


The 

Rural  Cook  Book 


Some  Old    Recipes   and  Many  New  Ones — Being 

the  Collected  Wisdom  of  a  Legion 

of  Home  Cooks 


Published  by 

THE  RURAL  NEW-YORKER 

New  York 


/ 


COPlIUGHTj     1907, 

By    The    Rural  Publishing   Co. 
AH  rights  reserved. 


PREFACE 


For  many  years  The  R.  N.-Y.  has  been  collecting  tested  recipes  from 
an  immense  army  of  practical  housewives.  Some  are  entirely  original; 
others  are  doubtless  modifications  of  familiar  practice.  It  is  an  easy 
matter  to  mislay  a  recipe  not  needed  for  immediate  use,  and  we  are  thus 
often  asked  to  repeat  their  publication,  not  once,  but  perhaps  a  dozen 
limes.  For  this  reason  it  seemed  wise  to  print  a  selection  of  these  recipes 
in  permanent  form,  and  "The  Rural  Cook  Book"  was  decided  upon,  as 
a  successor  to  "The  Business  Hen"  and  "The  Farmer's  Garden."  Before 
we  had  finished  assem.bling  our  material,  however,  we  discovered  that  we 
had  enough  recipes  alone  to  fill  four  books  of  the  required  size,  and  the 
question  became  not  what  to  put  in,  but  what  to  leave  out.  It  was  decided 
that  we  must  give  as  much  space  as  possible  to  canning,  preserving, 
pickling,  and  other  uses  of  fruit  and  vegetables,  as  such  recipes  are 
especially  useful  to  farm  housekeepers.  This  little  book  is  not  intended, 
however,  to  be  a  complete  guide  to  domestic  economy;  in  spite  of  its 
omissions  we  feel  sure  that  it  will  be  found  a  real  practical  helper,  and 
we  also  think  it  will  fill  a  place  left  vacant  by  many  a  more  pretentious 
volume. 


CONTENTS 


Chapter  I.     Soups. 

Vegetable,  Meat,   Chowders,   etc 7-12 

Chapter  II.     Fish. 

Including  Oysters   and   Clams 13-18 

Chapter  III.    Meats. 

Roasts,    Stews,    Broiling,    Meat    Pies,    Curing    Hams,    Corning 

Beef,  Making  Sausage,  Game 19-39 

Chapter  IV.     Pastry  and  Pies. 

Crusts  and  Puff  Pastes,  Tarts,  Pie  Fillings  and  Small  Dainties.  .   40-50 

Chapter  V.     Puddings,  Hot  and  Cold. 

Baked,  Steamed,  Boiled,  Fruit  and  Cereal 51-69 

Chapter  VI.     Apples. 

Many    Wholesome    and    Appetizing    Ways    of    Preparing    this 

Familiar    Fruit    70-78 

Chapter  VII.     Bread  and  Muffins. 

White,   Brown,    Oat    and   Corn    Breads ;    Biscuits,    Buns,    Rolls, 

Coffee    Cake,    Waffles 79-89 

Chapter  VIII.     Cakes. 

Doughnuts,  Gingerbread,  Cookies,  Lebkuchen,   Many  Plain  and 

Layer  Cakes,  Cake  Fillings  and  Icings 90-108 

Chapter  IX.     Eggs. 

Boiled,  Baked,  Poached,  Omelets,  Welsh  Rabbit.. 109-113 

Chapter  X.    Vegetables. 

Many  Methods  of  Preparmg  Familiar  Vegetables,  Hulled  Corn, 

Succotash,    etc 114-122 

Chapter  XL     Canning  and  Preserving. 

Jams,  Jellies,  Marmalades,  Fruit  Butters,  Glace  Fruits,  Practical 

Methods  of  Canning  Fruits  and  Vegetables 123-155 

Chapter  XII.     Pickles  and  Relishes. 

Fruit   and   Vegetable    Pickles,    Chow    Chow,    Sauces,    Catsups, 

Vinegars   156-182 

Chapter   XIIL      Sal^^ds 183-185 

Chapter   XIV.     Cheese 186-188 

Chapter  XV.    Warm  Supper  and  Breakfast  Dishes. 

Toasts,   Croquettes,   Noodles,    Pancakes 189-192 


CHAPTER   I. 

SOUPS. 

Here  are  some  certain  rules  of  health; 
Take  them — they're  better  far  than  wealth  : 
Don't  overeat,  don't  overdrink, 
Don't  overwork,  don't  overthink, 
Be  not  afraid  of  honest  sweat ; 
.Run  like  a  deer  from  shame  and  debt. 
Beware  of  bigness  of  the  head. 
Get  bigness  of  the  soul  instead. 

Almond  and  Celery  Soup. — Cut  in  small  pieces  a  bunch  of  celery, 
using  the  leaves  and  carefully  scraped  root;  add  six  peppercorns,  two 
bay  leaves,  a  tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  a  thin  slice  of  lemon,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon;  cover  with  a  quart  of  water 
and  cook  an  hour,  strain  and  reheat,  stirring  in  a  cup  of  rich  milk  (cream 
is  better),  a  teaspoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter  blended  together,  and 
one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  blanched  almonds  that  have  been  pounded  to  a 
paste,  allowing  soup  to  boil  for  a  moment  or  two  after  the  nuts  are 
added.     Serve  very  hot  with  cheese  crackers. 

English  Beef  Soup. — Take  the  cracked  joints  of  beef,  and  after  put- 
ting the  meat  in  the  pot  and  covering  it  well  with  water  let  it  come 
to  a  boil,  when  it  should  be  well  skimmed.  Set  the  pot  where  the  meat 
will  simmer  slowly  until  it  is  thoroughly  done,  keeping  it  closely  cov- 
ered all  the  time.  The  next  day,  or  when  cold,  remove  the  fat  which 
hardens  on  the  top  of  the  soup.  Peel,  wash  and  slice  three  good-sized 
potatoes  and  put  them  into  the  soup ;  cut  up  half  a  head  of  white  cab- 
bage in  shreds  and  add  to  this  a  pint  of  Shaker  corn  that  has  been 
soaked  over  night,  two  onions,  one  head  of  celery,  and  tomatoes,  if  de- 
sired. When  these  are  done,  and  they  should  simmer  slowly,  care  being 
taken  that  they  do  not  burn,  strain  (or  not,  as  preferred)  the  soup  and 
serve.  The  different  varieties  of  beef  soup  are  formed  by  this  method 
of  seasoning  and  the  different  vegetables  used  in  preparing  it  after  the 
joints  have  been  well  boiled.  Besides  onions,  celery,  cabbage,  tomatoes 
and  potatoes,  many  use  a  few  carrots,  turnips,  beets  and  force-meat  balls, 
seasoned  with  spice.  Rice  or  barley  will  give  the  soup  consistency,  and 
are  to  be  preferred  to  flour  for  the  purpose.  Parsley,  thyme  and  sage 
are  the  favorite  herbs  for  seasoning,  but  should  be  used  sparingly.  To 
make  force-meat  balls  add  to  one  pound  chopped  beef  one  egg,  a  small 
lump  of  butter,  a  cup  or  less  of  bread  crumbs;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  moisten  with  water  from  stewed  meat;   make  in  balls   and 


8  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

fry  brown,  or  make  egg-balls  by  boiling  eggs,  mashing  the  yolks  with  a 
silver  spoon  and  mixing  with  one  raw  yolk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flour ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  make  into  balls;  drop  in  soup  just  before 
serving. 

Black  Bean  or  Lentil  Soup. — Soak  a  pint  of  black  beans  or  lentils  over 
night.  In  the  morning,  parboil  them.  Boil  gently  in  fresh  water  until 
soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  a  bay  leaf,  some  cloves,  and 
a  stalk  of  celery.  Brown  two  slices  of  bacon  cut  in  dice  with  half  a 
minced  onion  and  turn  into  the  soup.     Serve  with   squares   of  toast. 

■  Brown  Flour  Soup. — Put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  clean  iron  frying 
pan.  When  melted,  sprinkle  in  half  a  cupful  of  flour  and  stir  briskly 
until  the  flour  is  of  a  uniform  brown  color  like  roasted  coffee.  Add  this 
gradually  to  two  quarts  of  water.  Peel  and  cut  into  cubes  three  pota- 
toes and  cook  in  the  soup  20  minutes.  Season  with  an  onion  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  celery  salt. 

Consomm.e. — Cut  up  two  pounds  of  lean  raw  meat,  beef  or  veal,  and 
add  a  cupful  of  cold  roast  beef,  cut  in  pieces.  Put  over  the  fire  with  a 
cracked  knuckle  of  veal,  four  quarts  of  cold  water,  two  onions,  one 
carrot,  two  stalks  of  celery,  six  peppercorns,  a  spoonful  of  salt,  six 
cloves  and  a  few  herbs.  Cook  slowly  all  day.  Strain,  and  when  cold 
skim  off  the  fat.  Add  the  white  and  shells  of  two  eggs.  Bring  to  a 
boil   and  boil   10   minutes.     Strain   through   a   cloth. 

Corn  Chowder. — Pare  and  slice  thin  onions  enough  to  make  a  pint; 
boil  one  hour;  to  this  add  one-half  pint  potatoes  cut  small,  boil  10 
minutes  longer.  Fry  brown  a  slice  of  fat  salt  pork  cut  small  and  add 
fat  and  all,  then  a  pint  of  tender  sweet  corn  (canned  corn  is  all  right). 
Boil  10  minutes  longer;  the  whole  of  this  now  should  be  two  quarts  or 
more;  this  is  the  best  time  to  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  one  pint 
of  milk  and  a  cupful  of  cream  or  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg  if 
cream  is   not  plentiful.     Do  not  let  cream  boil;   serve  very   hot. 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup. — Scrape  the  corn  from  eight  tender  young 
ears.  Boil  the  cobs  in  as  little  water  as  may  be  for  30  minutes.  Strain 
off  the  liquid,  add  the  scraped  corn  and  boil  20  minutes.  Heat  one  quart 
of  sweet  milk  to  scalding  point;  rub  together  one  tablespoonful  butter 
and  one  teaspoonful  flour;  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Add  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  white  pepper.  Pour  over  the  corn, 
stir  for  a  minute  or  two,  then  pour  into  hot  tureen.  Serve  with  crou- 
tons. Croutons — Cut  bread  two  days  old  into  small  triangles  or  dice. 
Brown  in  oven  to  a  golden  tint.  They  are  very  nice  spread  with  a  paste 
made  of  twice  the  quantity  of  butter  cream.ed,  of  delicate  cheese  grated 
and  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley.  (Two  teaspoons  butter,  one  of  grated 
cheese,  one-fourth  teaspoon  chopped  parsley).  The  croutons  can  be 
fried  if  desired. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  9 

Cream  of  Eggs. — Slice  a  medium-sized  onion  into  a  quart  of  milk 
and  bring  the  milk  to  the  scalding  point  in  a  double  boiler.  Strain 
out  the  onion  and  return  the  milk  to  the  kettle  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour  that  has  been  rubbed  ♦^o  a  paste  with  the  same  quantity  of  butter. 
Stir  to  a  smooth  cream-like  soup,  and  just  before  serving  season  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  three  shakes  of  pepper.  Chop  coarsely,  the 
white  of  four  or  five  hard-boiled  eggs  and  add  to  the  soup.  When 
ready  to  serve  sprinkle  each  portion  with  the  grated  yolks. 

Cream  of  Salsify. — Take  two  bunches  of  salsify,  wash,  scrape  and  cut 
in  small  pieces  and  boil  until  tender.  While  hot  mash  and  press  through 
a  colander.  Have  ready  a  cream  made  of  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and 
two  of  butter  melted  together,  seasoned  with  one-half  saltspoonful  white 
pepper  and  stirred  into  three  cups  milk  and  one  cup  water,  which  have 
previously  been  brought  to  a  boil.  Stir  constantly  until  the  consistency 
of  a  puree;  add  the  prepared  salsify,  let  boil  up  once,  add  three-quarters 
of  a   teaspoonful   salt,   and   serve   immediately. 

Fish  Chowder. — Two  pounds  of  fresh  cod  or  any  white  fish,  a  quar- 
ter-pound bacon,  four  large  potatoes,  one  small  onion,  half  a  can  tomatoes, 
one  quart  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
for  thickening.  Pick  the  fish  to  pieces,  removing  all  bone  and  skin; 
peel  potatoes  and  cut  into  dice ;  cut  the  bacon  in  small  pieces ;  rub  the 
butter  and  flour  to  a  cream.  On  the  bottom  of  a  granite  kettle  spread 
half  of  the  potatoes  in  a  layer,  then  half  of  fish,  then  sprinkle  in  the 
onions  minced  fine,  then  the  bacon,  then  half  the  tomatoes.  Then  a 
shake  of  salt  and  pepper;  add  the  rest  of  the  fish,  potatoes,  tomatoes  and 
more  salt  and  pepper,  using  in  all  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful pepper.  Cover  with  water,  let  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Let 
the  milk  come  to  a  scald,  put  a  pinch  of  soda  into  the  chowder  and  stir; 
add  the  hot  milk  to  the  butter  and  flour;  stir  smooth;  then  add  to  the 
chowder ;  let  get  very  hot,  and  serve. 

Milk  Soup. — The  various  soups  known  as  creams  are  usually  about 
half  milk  and  half  meat  or  vegetable  stock,  slightly  thickened  with  flour 
which  has  been  blended  with  fat.  For  example,  the  tough,  flabby  portions 
and  white  leaves  of  a  bunch  of  celery  might  be  cut  in  small  pieces,  mixed 
with  a  sliced  onion,  covered  with  cold  water  and  cooked  until  much  of  it 
can  be.  rubbed  through  a  strainer.  To  this  juice  and  pulp  is  added  an 
equal  portion  or  even  more  of  hot  milk.  For  thickening  a  quart  of  soup 
slightly,  one  ounce  of  butter  and  one  rounding  tablespoonful  of  flour 
should  be  cooked  together  in  a  small  saucepan  until  frothing,  then  add  a 
little  of  the  soup  and  beat  until  smooth,  and  then  mix  with  the  whole 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  For  a  thicker  soup  use  twice  as  much 
flour  and  butter,  though  the  butter  may  be  decreased  slightly.  However, 
if  we  use  skim-milk  for  the  soup,  as  we  may,  the  increase  of  butter  is 


10  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

desirable.  Such  soups  can  be  made  from  almost  any  vegetable,  varying 
the  thickening  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  pulp  of  the  vegetables. 
Bean  and  pea  soup  require  less  flour,  but  a  little  will  keep  them  from 
becoming  watery  on  top.  A  corn  chowder  can  be  made  much  like  a 
fish  chowder  from  fresh  or  canned  corn  with  pork  fat,  onion  and  po- 
tato. Such  soups  are  excellent  for  supper  on  a  cold  night,  and  give  an 
opportunity  to  turn  skim-milk  to  good  account. 

Mock  Oyster  Soup. — Scrape  a  dozen  roots  of  salsify,  throwing  at  once 
into  cold  water  to  avoid  discoloring,  cut  into  thin  slices  and  cover  with 
a  quart  of  water,  or  preferably  soup  stock.  Cook  gently  until  perfectly 
tender  (about  an  hour)  ;  then  add  a  quart  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  cut 
into  bits.     Serve  with  oyster  crackers. 

Italian  Onion  Soup. — Boil  six  young  but  fully  grown  onions  in  two 
waters,  turning  off  the  first  at  the  end  of  10  minutes'  boil,  and  replac- 
ing with  fresh  hot  water.  There  should  be  a  quart  of  the  second  water. 
When  the  onions  are  tender,  add  a  cupful  of  dry,  fine  bread  crumbs  and 
cook  gently  for  five  minutes  more.  Pour  the  contents  of  the  kettle  into 
a  colander  and  rub  the  onions  and  crumbs  through  it  into  the  liquid  in 
the  bowl  below.  Return  all  to  the  fire,  simmer  for  a  minute  and  stir  into 
the  soup  a  "roux,"  made  by  heating  to  a  bubbling  cream  a  great  spoon- 
ful of  butter  with  one  of  flour  in  a  frying  pan.  Have  ready  heated  in 
another  saucepan  a  cup  of  milk  in  which  you  have  dropped  a  pinch  of 
soda.  Take  the  boiling  soup  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  hot  milk,  and  pour 
into  a  heated  tureen.     Pass  Parmesan  cheese  with  it. 

Cream,  of  Oyster  Soup. — Add  to  one  quart  of  milk  half  of  a  small 
onion,  two  sprigs  of  parsley  and  a  half  a  cupful  of  celery  leaves  and 
stalks.  Scald  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  flour 
with  sufficient  cold  milk  to  make  a  paste  and  add  it  to  the  scalded  milk. 
Stir  until  it  thickens  and  let  cook  for  about  20  minutes  covered.  Pour 
a  cupful  of  cold  water  over  a  quart  of  oysters,  strain  the  liquid  through 
a  cheesecloth  and  heat  to  a  boiling  point.  Add  the  oj^sters  and  when  the 
boiling  point  is  reached  add  the  thickened  milk.  Season  with  salt  and 
white  pepper  and  stir  in,  little  by  little,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter. 

Pink  Velvet  Soup. — Half  a  canful  of  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  water, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  large  onion,  chopped  small ;  one  potato 
shaved  thin,  a  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  sweet  marjoram.  Boil  all  together 
for  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  potatoes  melt.  Strain,  thicken  with  gran- 
ulated tapioca  or  cornstarch,  boil  five  minutes,  add  a  pinch  of  baking  soda, 
and  then  pour  in  a  pint  of  hot  milk.     Serve  at  once. 

Potato  Soup.— Three  potatoes,  one  pint  milk,  one  teaspoonful  chopped 
onions,  one  stalk  celery,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  celery  salt, 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  11 

one-half  saltspoonful  white  pepper,  one-fourth  saltspoonful  cayenne,  one- 
half  tablespoonful  flour,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Pare  the  potatoes 
and  soak  them  in  cold  water  one-half  hour.  Boil  them  until  very  soft. 
Cook  onions  and  celery  in  milk  in  double  boiler.  When  potatoes  are 
soft  drain  and  mash,  add  boiling  milk  and  seasoning.  Rub  through 
strainer  and  put  on  to  boil  again.  Melt  butter  in  small  saucepan ;  when 
bubbling  add  flour;  when  well  mixed  stir  into  boiling  soup.  Boil  five 
minutes  and  serve  very  hot.  This  flour  thickening  prevents  milk  and 
potato  from  separating,  and  gives  a  smoothness  quite  unlike  granular 
efl"ects  often  noticed.  If  too  thick  add  hot  milk.  The  soup  may  also  be 
made  with  meat  stock  instead  of  milk. 

Salmon  Bisque. — One  pint  of  oyster  liquor  and  one  of  hot  water 
heated  together.  When  it  boils  stir  in  two  cupfuls  of  finely  minced 
salmon,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  In  an- 
other saucepan  put  one  cupful  of  milk  and  heat  to  scalding,  with  a  pinch 
of  soda;  stir  into  this  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  rubbed  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  half  cupful  of  pounded  cracker.  Add  one 
Q^g^  well  beaten  and  stir  and  cook  for  a  moment.  Mix  the  fish  and 
milk  mixtures,  cook  a  few  moments,  pour  into  soup  tureen  and  serve 
hot. 

Scotch  Broth. — One-half  cup  pearl  barley,  two  pounds  neck  of  mutton, 
tv/o  quarts  cold  water,  one-fourth  cup  each  of  turnip,  carrot,  onion  and 
celery  chopped  small,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  salt,  one  saltspoon  parsley  chopped  fine.  Soak  barley  over 
night.  Remove  fat  and  skin  from  mutton,  scrape  meat  from  bones  and 
cut  in  dice.  Put  bones  on  to  boil  in  one  pint  cold  water,  the  meat  in 
separate  pot  with  three  pints  water.  Let  the  latter  cook  quickly.  Skim 
when  it  begins  to  boil;  add  barley;  skim  again.  Fry  the  chopped  vege- 
tables in  the  hot  butter  five  minutes,  drain,  add  to  the  meat,  simmer 
three  hours.  Strain  the  water  in  which  the  bones  were  simmered,  set 
aside  for  a  moment.  Put  in  the  saucepan  the  butter  left  from  frying 
the  vegetables,  melt  and  add  the  flour.  When  smooth,  pour  in.  gradually 
the  liquid  from  the  bones.  Add  to  the  broth,  add  salt,  parsley  and  one- 
half  saltspoon  pepper,  simmer  10  minutes  and  serve.  As  this  broth  is 
served  without  straining  it  is  always  well  to  boil  bones  separately. 

Split  Pea  Soup. — Wash  a  pint  of  split  peas  and  cover  with  tepid 
water,  adding  a  pinch  of  soda,  and  let  remain  over  night  to  swell.  In 
the  morning  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  adding 
half  a  pound  of  lean  salt  pork  cut  into  slices,  also  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  little  pepper.  Cook  slowly  for  three  hours,  stirring  occasionally 
till  the  peas  are  all  dissolved,  adding  a  little  more  boiling  water  to  keep 
up  the  quantity  'as  it  boils  away.  Strain  through  a  colander.  Serve  with 
small  squares  of  toasted  bread. 


13  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Squirrel  Soup. — Allow  one  large  or  two  small  squirrels,  well  washed 
and  jointed,  to  two  quarts  of  cold  water  and  two  teaspoonfuls  (level) 
of  salt.  Put  to  cook  directly  after  breakfast  in  a  stone  pipkin  or  enam- 
eled kettle.  Cover  closely  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  range  to  simmer — 
not  boil.  After  two  hours  add  the  corn  from  two  ears,  two  small  Irish 
potatoes,  one-half  cupful  of  Lima  beans,  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  three 
celery  stalks  and  one-half  cupful  of  sliced  okra.  Keep  closely  covered, 
and  as  the  water  evaporates  add  enough  to  keep  the  original  two  quarts. 
When  the  squirrels  bave  cooked  to  rags  strain  through  a  coarse  colander 
to  remove  the  troublesome  little  bones.  Return  to  the  soup  kettle,  cover 
and  continue  to  simmer  until  nearly  time  to  serve.  Then  thicken  with 
p  dessertspoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour.  Those 
who  like  may  add  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sassafras  leaves.  Have  two 
slices  of  toast  cut  into  inch  squares,  fried  in  butter  and  placed  in  the 
bottom  of  a  hot  tureen.  Pour  over  them  the  soup,  boiling  hot,  and 
serve  immediately. 

Puree  of  Tomatoes. — Cook  the  contents  of  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  15 
minutes,  then  rub  through  a  colander.  Return  to  the  fire  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  little  sugar.  Rub  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  into  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  and  stir  this  smooth  paste 
into  the  strained  tomatoes.  Cook,  stirring  steadily,  until  smooth  and 
thick.  Have  ready  heated  in  a  saucepan  a  quart  of  rich  milk  into  which 
has  been  stirred  a  pinch  of  baking  soda.  To  this  add,  gradually,  the 
thickened  tomato  liquor,  beating  the  milk  constantly  as  you  do  so. 
Serve  immediately,  putting  a  great  spoonful  of  unsweetened  whipped 
cream  on  the  surface  of  each  plate  of   soup. 

Vegetable  Cream  Soups.— Scald  three  cupfuls  of  milk.  Rub  together 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  cook  until 
it  bubbles;  add  the  hot  milk  gradually  to  this,  and  cook  for  five  minutes, 
stirring  until  thick  and  smooth.  Blend  some  of  this  cream  with  a  cup- 
ful of  cooked  vegetable,  mashed  to  a  smooth  pulp,  mix  all  together,  and 
simmer  for  five  minutes,  seasoning  appropriately.  Potato  soup  should 
have  a  little  celery  and  onion  cooked  in  the  milk,  and  when  ready  to 
serve  some  finely-chopped  parsley  should  be  scattered  on  top.  Celery, 
asparagus,  green  peas  or  beans,  carrots,  spinach,  cucumbers  and  lettuce 
are  all  good  in  such  soup ;  all  must  first  be  cooked  and  reduced  to  a 
smooth  pulp.  Bread  cut  into  dice  and  browned  in  butter  is  often  added 
when  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve. 


CHAPTER  II. 

FISH. 

All  small  fish  are  best  fried,  and  many  large  fish  are  excellent  cooked 
in  the  same  way.  The  fish  should  be  well  cleaned;  if  small  left  whole, 
if  large  cut  into  neat  pieces.  Beat  an  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold 
water;  dip  the  fish  in  this,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs  or  cornmeal.  Cook 
in  plenty  of  fat,  which  must  be  boiling  hot  when  put  in.  Baking  and 
boiling  are  both  excellent  methods  of  cooking  fish,  but  very  soft  fish 
should  never  be  boiled.  The  recipes  given  below  refer  mainly  to  canned 
and  salt  fish,  because  these  are  more  helpful  in  an  emergency. 

Clam  Chowder. — Take  the  liquor  from  fifty  clams,  put  it  on  the  stove 
to  heat.  Cut  into  dice  ^  pound  salt  pork,  brown  it  in  the  frying  pan, 
and  add  to  the  clam  liquor.  I'cel  and  cut  into  dice  three  quarts  of  ripe 
tomatoes  and  half  the  quantity  of  potatoes.  Cut  up  50  clams,  and  let  all 
the  ingredients  boil  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours.  Half  hour  before 
serving  add  half  a  dozen  large  crackers  rolled  fine. 

Clam  Gumbo. — In  one  large  tablespoonful  of  lard  fry  one  finely- 
chopped  onion,  add  one  cupful  of  chopped  cooked  ham,  one  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  green  pepper,  four  tomatoes,  skinned  and  cut  in  pieces,  one 
pint  of  okra,  stemmed  and  sliced,  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one 
quart  of  water  or  broth.  Simmer  for  an  hour,  add  one  dozen  finely 
chopped  clams,  simmer   15   minutes,  and   serve. 

Clam  Pie. — From  a  half  pound  of  rather  fat  salt  pork  trim  off  the 
rind  and  cut  in  slices,  then  in  dice.  Slowly  fry  this,  and  when  the  fat 
is  well  drawn  out  and  just  beginning  to  color  add  half  of  a  small  onion 
cut  fine.  When  golden  brown  add  one  quart  of  raw,  diced  potatoes, 
one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pep- 
per. Cover  and  cook  slowly  until  the  potatoes  are  almost  tender.  Take 
from  the  fire,  add  one  solid  pint  of  raw  clams  cut  in  quarters  and  theii- 
strained  juice.  Turn  into  a  deep  well-greased  baking  dish.  While  this 
mixture  is  cooking  mix  and  sift  together  one  pint  and  a  half  of  flour, 
a  .half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Mix  to  a  soft  dough  with  sweet  milk,  and  roll  out  not  over  a  half  inch 
thick.  Cut  in  small  round  biscuits.  Place  these  close  together  over  the 
top  of  the  pie,  brush  with  milk  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  35  minutes. 

Roast  Clams. — Wash  the  clams  and  drain  them  in  a  colander  for  a 
few  minutes,  then  lay  them  in  a  large  dripping  pan  and  put  the  pan  into 
a  very  hot  oven.    As  soon  as  the  shells  begin  to  open,  the  clams   are 


14  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

cooked;  it  takes  from  seven  to  10  minutes  to  roast  them.  Have  a  cov- 
ered dish  hot,  and  drop  the  clams  into  it  as  soon  as  they  are  taken  from 
the  shell.  Spread  over  them  a  mustard  cream  sauce  and  serve  at  once. 
To  make  the  sauce:  Put  one  cup  of  milk  over  the  fire  in  a  double 
boiler.  When  boiling,  gradually  stir  into  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, one  of  flour,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard  that  have  been 
beaten  to  a  creamy  mass.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  return  to  the 
fire;  cook  three  minutes,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Thin  slices  of  brown 
bread,   buttered,    are   served   with    roast   clams. 

Baked  Fish. — Bluefish,  cod,  or  haddock  are  the  best  fish  to  bake. 
Clean  the  fish  and  make  a  stuffing  as  follows:  Soak  stale  bread  in  cold 
water  for  20  minutes.  Press  dry,  and  season  with  one  Qgg,  one  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter  and  a  small  quantity  of  sage,  or  the  prepared 
poultry  dressing,  or  a  little  onion  juice,  as  preferred.  When  the  stuf- 
fing has  been  thoroughly  mixed,  fill  the  fish  and  sew  up  with  needle  and 
thread.  Flour  the  fish  well  and  salt  it.  Lay  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork 
into  the  bottom  of  the  baking  dish,  also  a  few  slices  on  top  .of  the 
fish.  Baste  it  often  with  the  liquor  which  cooks  out  of  it,  adding  a  lit- 
tle water  it  there  is  not  enough.  Allow  15  minutes  to  the  pound  for 
bakmg  fish.  Have  a  moderate  oven,  as,  if  very  hot,  it  will  not  cook 
well  in  the  middle. 

New  England  Codfish. — Select  a  whole  fish,  and  put  it  to  soak  in 
cold  water  over  night;  in  the  mormng  wash  it  clean  and  cut  off  the*fins 
and  tail.  Cook  the  fish  whole;  if  you  have  not  got  a  fish  kettle  place  it 
in  a  large  milk  pan  partly  filled  with  water.  Cover  the  pan  closely  and 
set  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water.  It  will  cook  very  slowly  in  this  way,  say 
five  or  six  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  fish,  but  it  will  be  done 
properly  when  ready  for  the  table.  Serve  it  whole,  placing  it  on  a  hot 
platter.  Indeed,  one  of  the  essentials  of  a  good  salt  fish  dinner  is  to 
have  everything  hot,  not  only  the  fish  and  vegetables,  but  plates  and 
dishes  as  well.  The  dish  on  which  your  fish  is  served  must  be  an  ample 
one,  and  around  the  fish  you  will  place  a  garnish  of  nicely  sliced  beets 
and  carrots.  With  the  fish  you  will  serve  pork  scraps  and  &gg  sauce 
and  boiled  potatoes.  The  pork  should  be  cut  into  dice  and  fried  a  rich 
brown.  To  make  the  tgg  sauce,  take  two  eggs  that  have  been  boiled 
10  minutes,  remove  the  shell,  and  cut  into  little  pieces,  placing  them  in 
the  sauce  dish.  Blend  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  when  the  fish  is  ready  to  serve,  pour  over  a  coffee- 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  stir,  and  pour  into  the  sauce  dish  with  the  egg 
and  stir  again.  If  the  sauce  is  too  thick,  add  still  more  boiling  water. 
When  you  have  not  time  to  cook  a  salt  fish  for  dinner  and  desire  an 
emergency  dish,  try  salt  fish  in  cream  prepared  as  follows:  Shred  a 
cupful  of  salt  cod,  or,  if  you  prefer,  use  the  prepared  article,  place  it  in 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  15 

a  stewpan  over  the  fire  in  cold  water  to  cover,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil 
for  a  couple  of  minutes;  pour  off  the  water,  add  to  the  fish  one  pint 
of  sweet  milk,  and  when  this  boils  thicken  with  flour  wet  with  milk; 
let  it  boil  four  or  five  minutes,  being  careful  it  does  not  scorch,  and 
serve  in  a  hot,  deep  dish.  Serve  pickled  beets  with  this  dish,  and  boiled 
potatoes. 

Cuban  Codfish. — Pick  into  fine  shreds  a  cupful  of  freshened  codfish. 
Cut  an  onion  into  thin  slices  and  lightly  brown  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Add  the  fish  and  pour  in  just  enough  water 
to  cover.  Add  a  part  of  a  chopped  green  pepper  and  a  half  can  of  to- 
matoes. Cover  closely  and  simmer  for  an  hour.  If  the  tomatoes  are 
very  juicy,  less  water  is  required.  Cream  a  rounded  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter and  one  of  flour;  stir  into  the  fish  until  smooth  and  cooked;  turn  the 
mixture   upon   thin   slices    of   buttered    toast. 

Delicate  Fishballs. — Boil  the  quantity  of  codfish  that  would  be  re- 
quired, changing  the  water  once  that  it  may  not  be  too  salt.  While  the 
fish  is  hot  pick  it  very  fine,  so  that  it  will  be  feathery.  It  cannot  be  done 
fine  enough  with  a  fork,  and  should  be  picked  by  hand.  At  the  same 
time  have  hot  boiled  potatoes  ready,  mash  them  thoroughly  and  make 
them  creamy  with  milk  and  a  good-sized  lump  of  butter.  To  three  cup- 
fuls  of  mashed  potatoes  take  1^  cupful  of  fish;  the  fish  should  not  be 
packed  down.  Beat  one  ^^g  lightly  and  stir  into  the  other  ingredients 
and  season  to  taste.  Beat  the  mixture  well  together  and  until  light,  then 
mold  it  into  small  balls,  handling  lightly  and  before  frying  roll  the  balls 
in  flour.     Fry  them  in  smoking  hot   fat  until  a  gold  color. 

Mexican  Codfish. — Fry  to  a  pale  yellow  one  small  onion,  chopped 
fine,  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
half  a  green  pepper,  chopped  fine,  and  one  cupful  of  stewed  and  sifted 
tomato  pulp.  When  the  sauce  reaches  the  boiling  point,  add  half  a 
pound  of  salt  codfish,  which  has  been  freshened  for  24  hours  in  cold 
water  and  slowly  simmered  until  it  will  readily  separate  into  flakes. 

Codfish  Alound. — Make  one  quart  of  good  mashed  potatoes  without 
anj--  salt;  add  a  pint  of  picked  boiled  codfish.  Season  with  pepper;  beat 
well  together,  make  into  a  mound  with  a  depression  in  center  on  "a  bak- 
ish  dish,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  When  brought  to  the  table,  pour 
a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  sauce  in  center  of  mound,  and  garnish 
with,  hard-boiled  .eg%.  Serve  with  boiled  beets  and,  if  desired,  salt  pork 
or  bacon  cut  into  tiny  squares  and  fried  crisp,  which,  with  the  fat  fried 
out,  is  poured  into  a  gravy  bowl.  This  makes  a  hearty  and  satisfying 
meal. 

Biscay  Salt  Cod. — Bone  two  pounds  of  salt  cod  and  soak  in  cold 
water  for  12  hours.  Place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  salt  water  and  let 
heat  gradually  to  boiling  point;  then  add  fresh  water  and  let  boil  again. 


16  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Take  out  and  drain.  Chop  two  onions  and  one  green  pepper  quite  fine 
and  cook  for  five  minutes  in  butter  or  oil.  Add  one  sliced  tomato  or 
half-cupful  of  stewed  tomatoes,  one  clove  of  garlic  and  a  small  chili 
pepper.  Add  to  these  three  pints  of  broth,  a  small  bunch  of  parslej^, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup  and  a  pint  of  small  potatoes 
(peeled)  or  the  same  quantity  of  potato  balls.  Cook  until  the  potatoes 
are  just   done,   add   the  cod   and   cook   five   minutes   longer. 

Salt  Codfish  Chowder. — Cut  one-fourth  pound  of  salt  pork  into  bits 
and  try  out  the  fat  in  a  frying  pan;  in  this  brown  two  medium-sized 
onions,  sliced.  Wash  and  drain  a  pound  of  codfish,  cut  or  picked  into 
bits;  cover  with  cold  water  and  set  on  back  of  range  to  heat,  but  not 
boil.  After  two  hours  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  potatoes  pared  and  sliced, 
and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Add  a  cupful  of  water  to  the  onions  and  pork 
and  strain  over  the  potatoes.  When  the  potatoes  are  tender  add  one 
cupful  each  of  scalded  cream  and  milk.  Pour  the  chowder  over  six 
crackers  broken  into  halves   and  serve. 

Finnan  Haddie,  Caledonian  Style. — Soak  one-half  of  a  finnan  haddie 
weighing  four  pounds,  two  hours  in  milk  and  water  to  cover,  using 
equal  parts,  having  the  liquid  at  a  uniformly  even  tepid  temperature. 
This  is  best  accomplished  by  having  the  fish  in  a  drip  pan  on  the  back 
of  the  range.  Trim  the  fish  to  fit  a  copper  platter  or  graniteware  drip- 
ping pan,  by  cutting  off  flank  and  a  two-inch  piece  from  the  tail  end. 
Pour  over  a  cream  sauce,  and  surround  with  six  halves  of  potatoes  of 
uniform  size  smoothly  pared.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  the  time 
required  being  about  40  minutes,  basting  with  the  cream  sauce  three 
times  during  the  cooking.  Cream  must  enter  into  the  composition  of  a 
real  cream  sauce.  For  the  cream  sauce  for  the  finnan  haddie,  melt  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  until 
well  blended,  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  cupful 
of  milk  and  one-half  cupful  of  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
season  with  a  few  grains  of  pepper.  No  salt  will  be  needed,  for  it  must 
be   remembered  that  finnan  haddie   is   salted. 

Finnan  Haddie  in  Cream. — Cover  a  pound  of  the  fish  with  cold  water 
and  let  come  to  a  simmer,  drain,  then  cut  into  moderate-sized  pieces.  In 
the  meantime  prepare  a  cream  sauce  made  by  melting  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  to  which  is  added  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  scant  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  and  one-half 
cupful  each  of  milk  and  cream.  Add  the  pieces  of  fish,  let  the  whole 
come  to  a  boil  and  serve.  This  creamed  fish  is  also  very  nice  if  put 
in  a  baking  dish,  covered  with  bread  crumbs,  and  browned  in  the  oven. 
Browned  Salt  Mackerel. — Freshen  two  fish  by  soaking  over  night, 
wash  in  fresh  water  in  the  morning  and  squeeze  over  the  flesh  side  the 
juice  of  one-half  a  lemon.     Lay  one  of  the  fish  skin  side  down  in  baking 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  17 

dish  and  cover  with  dressing  made  of  one  cupful  bread  crumbs,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter  (scant),  pinch  of  pepper,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  and 
one-fourth  cupful  of  cream.  Lay  the  other  fish  on  dressing,  skin  side  up, 
and  baste  well  with  hot  water  and  melted  butter.  Put  into  a  hot  oveh 
for  20  minutes,  then  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter 
and  put  back  in  the  oven  till  nicely  browned.  Carefully  dish  without 
disturbing  the  layers  and  serve  with  thin  lemon  slices  and  parsley  as  a 
garnish. 

Oyster  Chowder. — Fry  together  two  ounces  of  salt  pork  and  one 
onion,  sliced.  Parboil  one  pint  of  sliced  potatoes  five  minutes  and  drain. 
Look  over  carefully  one  pint  of  oysters,  pour  over  one-half  cupful  of 
water  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point;  skim  out  the  oysters  and  pour  the 
liquor  over  the  potatoes,  add  the  pork  and  onions  and  cook  the  potatoes 
until  tender,  adding  a  little  more  water  if  necessary;  add  the  oysters, 
one  pint  of  milk  and  one-half  cupful  of  fine  bread  crumbs.  Season  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half-teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  pour  in  the 
serving  dish. 

Oyster  Stew. — Put  one  quart  of  oysters  in  a  colander,  and  pour  over 
three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  cold  water,  reserving  the  liquor.  Pick  over 
tlie  oysters,  being  careful  that  no  particles  of  shells  adhere  to  the  tough 
muscles.  Heat  the  reserved  liquor  to  the  boiling  point,  strain  through  a 
double  thickness  of  cheese  cloth,  add  the  oysters,  and  cook,  stirring  oc- 
casionally, until  the  oysters  are  plump  and  the  edges  begin  to  curl.  Re- 
move the  oysters  with  a  skimmer  to  a  heated  tureen,  and  add  one-fourth 
of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one-eighth  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  the  oyster  liquor,  strained  a  second  time  through 
a  double  thickness  of  cheese  clotji,  and  four  cupfuls  of  scalded  milk. 

Baked  Pickerel. — Clean  the  fish  carefully  and  lay  on  a  rack  in  a 
dripping  pan;  dredge  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  several  dashes  of  pepper, 
and  a  little  flour.  Bake  carefully,  basting  every  10  minutes  until  well 
done,  with  hot  water  to  which  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  has  been  added. 
Make  the  sauce  with  half  a  cup  of  cream  and  half  a  cup  of  the  basting 
liquid  in  which  the  fish  was  cooked ;  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  let  the  sauce  boil  up  once,  then  add  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  chopped  parsley.  Pour  part  of  the  sauce  around  the 
fish  on  a  platter,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  gravy  boat. 

Quahaug  Pie. — Remove  the  loose  brown  skin  and  black  part  from  a 
quart  of  sea  clams  and  chop  the  remainder  fine.  Scald  a  cup  of  milk, 
the  liquid  from  the  clams  and  enough  water  to  make  a  pint  in  all,  and 
thicken  it  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter  cooked  to  a 
smooth  paste;  then  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and  two  finely-chopped 
hard-boiled  eggs,  and  lastly,  the  chopped  clams.  Line  a  meat  pie  dish 
with  pie   crust,   then  add  a   thin   layer   of   cracker  crumbs,   the   prepared 


18  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

clams,  and  sprinkle  this  over  with  another  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  and 
cover  with  a  good,  rich  crust,  leaving  several  openings  so  the  steam 
can  escape.     Bake  about  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven  until  well  browned. 

Salmon  Chowder. — Chop  coarsely  and  brown  together  in  a  kettle  or 
saucepan,  one-fourth  pound  of  salt  pork  and  one  onion.  Add  one  pint 
of  raw  potatoes,  chopped  or  cut  in  dice,  which  have  stood  for  half  an 
hour  in  cold  water.  Season,  barely  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  sim- 
mer for  half  an  hour;  then  add  a  can  of  salmon,  drained  and  flaked, 
two  or  three  broken  crackers  and  one  pint  of  scalded  milk  or  cream, 
with  two  teaspoons  of  butter.  This  may  be  varied  by  the  addition  of  a 
can  of  tomatoes,  or  a  shredded  pepper  or  both. 

Creamed  Salmon. — Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  saucepan; 
when  melted  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  dash  of  paprika  and  half  a  cup  of  milk.  Cook  until  smooth,  then  add 
a  small  can  of  salmon  finely  minced,  one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and 
a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  well  beaten;  whip  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff  and  fold  in  carefully. 
Butter  small  molds  or  a  baking  dish,  place  in  hot  water  in  a  dripping 
pan  and  bake  from  10  to  25  minutes. 

Escalloped  Salmon. — Put  one  pint  of  milk  to  heat  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter.  Moisten  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  in;  when  thick 
like  cream  remove  from  fire.  Drain  the  liquid  from  the  salmon  and 
remove  bone,  pick  it  all  up  into  fine  pieces  with  a  fork.  Butter  a  bak- 
ish  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  fine  cracker  crumbs,  then  half  the  salmon,  an- 
other layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  and  half  the  thickened  milk.  Then  add 
the  remaining  salmon,  a  layer  of  crumbs  and  the  remaining  milk.  Bake 
half  an  hour. 

Salmon  Loaf. — One  can  of  salmon  drained  and  minced.  Five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  four  eggs  well  beaten;  half  cup  of  bread  crumbs, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  together,  and  steam  one  hour  in  but- 
tered mold. 

Fried  Smelts. — Do  not  have  the  heads  removed  when  the  marketman 
cleans  the  fish.  Wipe  the  outside  of  each  with  a  damp  cloth  and  then 
roll  in  Indian  meal,  then  in  beaten  ^gg  and  then  again  into  the  meal;  lay 
in  a  ivy'mg  basket  or  place  a  few  in  a  kettle  of  hot  lard  to  cook  until 
the  coating  is  brown ;  remove  them  and  drain  on  to  plain  paper,  and  when 
serving  arrange  with  garnishing  of  sliced  lemon  and  parsley.  If  the 
basket  is  used  place  the  fish  side  by  side  in  it  and  drop  into  the  kettle  of 
hot  lard  until  the  fish  are  browned. 

Sportsman's  Trout. — Take  two  fresh  young  trout,  clean,  wash  and 
then  wipe  dry.  Use  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  two  or  three  dashes 
of  pepper  over  the  fishes.  Put  in  a  pan  to  fit  and  fill  to  the  level  with 
cream.    Bake  a  light  brown,  when  the  fish  will  have  absorbed  the  cream. 


CHAPTER  III. 

MEATS. 

I   am  the  dinner  table  ;   upon  my  ample  breast 

Three  times  a  day  the  housewife  puts  out  her  very  best. 

Three  times  a  day  they  gather — old  grandpa   at  the  head, 

Thrice'  daily  ofEers  up  his  thanks  for  life  and  daily  bread. 

Then  how  the  knives  they  clatter  and  how  my  load  grows  light, 

And  how  the  housewife's  goodly  fare  doth  disappear  from  sight, 

I  am  the  dinner  table,  and  while  my  timbers  stand 

I'll  still  remain  headquarters  for  our  good  household  band. 

Elaborate  instructions  for  marketing  are  usually  given  under  this  head, 
but  the  farm  housekeeper  meets  with  different  conditions.  If  meat  is 
locally  slaughtered  it  is  likely  to  be  much  better  in  quality  than  that  from 
the  great  packing  centers.  In  pork  particularly  she  has  a  great  advantage 
over  her  town  sisters.  It  should  be  remembered  that  in  beef  and  mutton 
many  of  the  cheaper  and  tougher  cuts  are  nutritious  and  well  flavored, 
but  they  need  careful  preparation,  and  especially  long  slow  cooking. 
Tough  meat  should  never  be  roasted,  broiled  or  fried;  it  should  be  cooked 
gently  in  a  closed  vessel,  with  such  seasonings  as  will  best  develop  flavor. 
There  are  still  some  cooks  who  prepare  meat  hastily  in  slightly  thickened 
water,  and  then  wonder  why  the  family  dislikes  stews.  With  long,  slow 
cooking  in  a  casserole  or  closed  vessel,  and  a  proper  admixture  of  herbs 
and  seasoning,   the  humble  stew  becomes   a  delicious   ragout. 

Bacon,  Cold  Roast. — Select  a  square  piece  weighing  three  or  four 
pounds,  soak  it  over  night.  The  next  morning  put  it  on  to  boil,  allowing 
it  to  simmer  very  gently  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  the  pound ;  then 
let  it  go  cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked.  When  cold  drain, 
remove  the  skin,  rub  the  fat  well  with  sugar,  pour  over  it  some  cider 
vinegar,  and  roast  in  the  oven  until  brown.  When  cold  cut  into  thin 
slices ;  it  should  be  tender  and  delicate  in  flavor. 

Beef,  Braised. — Procure  a  piece  of  four  pounds,  make  incisions  in  it 
an  inch  and  a  half  apart,  and  stuff  them  with  a  dressing  made  of  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  finely-minced  onion,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  basil,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  thyme,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Dredge  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  over  the  meat,  lay  three  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  the 
bottom  of  a  deep  pan,  place  the  meat  in,  lay  three  more  slices  of  bacon 
over  the  top,  cover  with  a  well-fitting  lid  and  shut  up  in  a  moderate  oven 
to  brown.  After  it  has  been  cooking  for  two  hours  add  two  carrots  (or 
four  small  ones),  one  turnip,  three  stalks  of  celery,  four  salsifies  and  one 


20  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

onion,  all  sliced.  Add  also  three  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  one 
minced  green  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  If  no  green  pepper  is  at 
hand  use  a  few  shreds  of  red  pepper  pod.  A  coffeecupful  of  boiling  water 
should  be  added  with  the  vegetables.  Fit  the  cover  on  closely  again  and 
leave  in  the  oven  for  another  hour,  or  until  both  meat  and  vegetables  are 
tender.  To  serve,  place  the  meat  on  a  hot  platter  and  arrange  the  vege- 
tables by  the  spoonful  about  it;  there  should  be  just  gravy  enough  to 
hold  the  vegetables  together. 

Beef,  Corned. — Here  is  an  old  home  recipe  for  corning  beef,  which 
will  be  especially  useful  to  tliose  who  kill  their  own  beef  cattle  as  well 
as  pork.  To  every  hundred  pounds  of  beef  take  nine  pounds  of  salt,  four 
pounds  of  sugar  or  two  quarts  of  good  molasses,  two  ounces  of  soda,  one 
ounce  of  saltpeter,  and  just  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat — about  four 
or  five  gallons.  Strew  some  salt  over  the  bottom  of  a  barrel ;  mix  about 
half  the  am.ount  of  salt  given  with  half  the  given  amount  of  sugar  or 
molasses,  and  rub  each  piece  of  meat  thoroughly  with  it  before  placing  it 
in  the  barrel.  Dissolve  the  saltpeter  and  soda  together  in  hot  water,  add 
the  remainder  of  the  salt  and  sugar  and  about  four  or  five  gallons  of 
cold  water.  Pour  this  over  the  meat.  Place  a  board  on  top  of  the  meat, 
with  a  weight  heavy  enough  to  keep  it  under  the  brine.  It  may  be  kept 
an  indefinite  time  in  the  brine,  but  is  salt  enough  to  cook  after  five  or 
six  days'  corning. 

Spiced  corned  beef  is  made  as  follows,  the  recipe  being  an  old  one, 
we  think  of  German  origin :  Rub  twelve  pounds  of  a  round  of  beef  with 
half  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar.  Let  it  stand  for  two  days,  turning  it  two 
or  three  times.  Take  a  large  teaspoonful  of  mace,  a  teaspoonful  of  black 
pepper,  two  of  cloves,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne,  one  small  grated 
nutmeg,  two  ounces  of  juniper  berries  and  one-half  ounce  of  saltpeter. 
Stir  all  these  seasonings  together,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  rub 
the  mixture  thoroughly  into  the  meat  and  all  over  it.  Then  let  it  stand 
for  three  days  longer.  At  the  end  of  this  time  rub  half  a  pound  of  fine 
salt  into  the  meat.  Finally,  let  it  stand  for  twelve  days,  rubbing  the  meat 
and  turning  it  daily.  If  it  is  to  be  cooked  immediately  and  not  dried,  wash 
it,  but  do  not  soak  it.  Lay  it  in  a  pot  that  just  fits  it,  and  pour  over  it  a 
quart  and  a  half  of  water.  When  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point  skim  it 
carefully,  add  a  carrot,  a  small  onion,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  few  sprigs  of  par- 
sley. Let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  four  and  a  half  h6urs.  Take  it  from 
the  fire,  put  it  under  a  heavy  weight  and  let  it  cool  in  the  liquid  in  which 
it  was  cooked.     Serve  in  thin  slices  when  perfectly  cold. 

Corned  Beef,  Shaker  Style. — This  recipe  is  given  under  the  name  of 
"bacca,"  in  Good  Housekeeping :  Pound  down  close  in  a  barrel  100 
pounds  of  the  round  of  beef  cut  in  lO-pound  pieces,  with  a  mixture  of 
lour  pounds  sugar,  two  ounces  saltpeter,  two  ounces  soda  bicarbonate,  and 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  21 

four  quarts  table  salt  sprinkled  under,  over  and  between.  It  will  make 
brine  without  water.  After  one  week,  a  piece  of  the  top  of  the  round, 
sliced  and  broiled,  will  be  found  tender  and  delicious.  The  bottom  of 
the  round,  boiled  till  tender  and  sliced  thin  when  cold,  resembles  ham, 
but  is  more  choice  in  flavor. 

Corned  Beef,  Savory  Style.— Choose  a  piece  of  brisket  of  corned  beef 
weighing  four  to  five  pounds  and  about  three  times  as  long  as  wide; 
wash,  season  with  a  small  haif  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  then  roll  it  up  and 
tie  very  tight.  Put  the  beef  in  a  kettle  with  cold  water  to  cover,  and 
let  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  then  pour  it  off  and  replace  with  more  cold 
water  to  cover;  add  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  a  small  onion,  peeled,  in 
which  is  inserted  six  cloves,  half  a  red  pepper,  a  blade  of  mace  and  a 
stalk  of  celery.  Boil  gently,  allow  half  an  hour  to  each  pound.  Serve  hot. 
If  the  meat  is  preferred  cold,  it  should  be  allowed  to  cool  in  the  broth 
in  which  it  was  cooked. 

Curried  Beef. — Melt  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add 
two  onions  sliced,  and  fry  until  brown;  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
curry  powder.  Cut  cold  roast  beef  in  pieces  about  an  inch  square,  put  it 
in  the  saucepan  and  add  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Simmer  for  30 
minutes.  Just  before  serving  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Send  to  the 
table  on  a  platter  bordered  with  boiled  rice. 

Beef  Loaf. — Take  two  pounds  of  round  steak  and  half  a  pound  of 
suet,  both  chopped  fine;  add  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  that 
have  been  softened  in  cold  water,  one  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  one-half 
cupful  of  sweet  milk  1^-2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  fourth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper ;  mix  all  together  and  shape  into  a  loaf,  put  in  a  roast* 
ing  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  2^  hours,  baste  frequently;  serve 
with  tomato  sauce. 

Beefsteak  Chowder. — Cut  a  pound  and  one-half  of  round  steak  in  strips 
or  cubes.  Cut  three  or  four  ounces  of  fat  pork  in  small  pieces  and  cook 
in  a  hot  frying  pan  with  an  onion  sliced  very  thin.  When  both  are 
browned  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  simmer  five  minutes,  pour  the 
whole  over  the  steak,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  boil  for  five  minutes  and 
then  cook  slowly  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Have  ready  five  large  potatoes 
peeled,  sliced,  scalded  in  boiling  water,  drained  and  rinsed  in  cold  water. 
Add  the  potatoes,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  tender,  then  add  one  and  one-half  cupful  of 
rich  milk  and  a  little  more  salt  if  necessary.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point 
and  pour  over  pilot  biscuit  or  thick  crackers  which  have  been  dipped  for 
a  second  in  hot  water. 

English  Beefsteak  Pudding. — Make  a  crust  by  thoroughly  mixing  two 
cupfuls  of  finely-chopped  beef  suet  in  three  cupfuls  of  flour;  add  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  mix  with  cold  water  into  a  dough  with  the  con- 


22  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

sistency  of  biscuit.  Roll  out  the  paste  to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch. 
Butter  an  earthen  pudding  bowl,  and  line  with  the  paste.  Take  flank  or 
round  steak,  cut  into  one-inch  pieces,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
fill  the  dish.  Pour  in  as  much  cold  water  as  will  find  its  way  in  around 
the  meat,  then  cover  it  with  paste,  having  moistened  the  edges  to  make 
them  stick  together.  Cover  with  a  cloth,  well  floured,  leaving  a  little 
room  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and 
let  it  boil  three  hours,  or  put  it  in  a  steamer,  and  allow  four  hours' 
cooking.  When  fully  cooked  the  meat  should  be  very  tender,  with  an 
abundance  of  rich  clotted  gravy.  The  addition  of  a  few  oysters  with 
the  meat  forms  a  palatable  change.     Serve  with  boiled  carrots  and  turnips. 

Spiced  Beef. — This  makes  a  desirable  cold  dish  for  luncheon  or  tea, 
or  for  Sunday  dinner  in  Summer.  Select  a  piece  of  the  flank,  trim  off 
the  coarse  skin,  lay  it  flat  on  the  table,  and,  with  a  knife,  spread  over  it 
the  following  mixture :  One  teaspoonful  ground  mustard,  one  teaspoonful 
celery  salt,  half  teaspoonful  black  pepper,  pinch  of  red  pepper,  mixed  to 
a  smooth  paste  with  vinegar.  Then  roll  up  the  meat  like  a  jelly  cake,  the 
spice  inside,  tie  it  up,  tie  it  in  a  cloth  like  a  pudding.  Put  it  into  boiling 
water,  and  let  it  boil  2^  hours.  When  cooked  lift  the  kettle  off  the 
stove,  and  allow  the  water  to  cool  before  removing  the  meat.  Do  not 
lake  the  cloth  off  until  cold,  then  slice  the  meat  for  serving. 

Waverly  Collared  Beef. — Corn  a  six-pound  piece  of  the  thick  part  of 
the  brisket  by  putting  it  in  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  tg^,  to  which 
is  added  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  saltpeter,  one  of  brown  sugar  and  a 
saltspoon  of  red  pepper.  Leave  it  in  five  or  six  days  in  Summer;  eight 
or  10  in  Winter.  Use  an  earthen  crock,  and  turn  the  meat  every  two  or 
three  days.  Grate  two  large  carrots,  a  good-sized  stick  of  horseradish, 
and  chop  fine  a  large  bunch  of  parsley;  mix  all  together,  and  spread  a 
thick  layer  on  the  corned  beef,  keeping  it  well  to  the  middle,  as  it  presses 
out  when  you  roll ;  if  the  meat  is  not  long,  and  difficult  to  roll  nicely,  cut 
a  few  pockets  in  it  and  fill  with  the  dressing;  then  roll  very  tightly, 
fastening  with  skewers  and  bmding  with  strong  string  round  and  round. 
Any  of  the  dressing  that  has  squeezed  out  press  back  into  the  open  ends 
of  the  roll ;  remove  the  skewers ;  then  tie  up  in  cheesecloth,  cover  with 
cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  a  simmer,  and  let  it  cook  at  this  point  four 
hours.  Remove  the  cheesecloth,  put  the  meat  on  a  tray,  place  a  heavy 
weight  on  it  and  leave  it  over  night.  Cut  off  the  string.  Serve  cold, 
cutting  thin  slices  off  the  end,  showing  the  dressing. 

Brown  Stew. — A  piece  of  tough  steak. can  be  very  well  cooked  in  this 
way :  Brown  a  tablespoonfui  of  sugar  in  the  kettle  and  add  a  sliced 
onion;  when  brown  cool  and  add  for  each  pound  of  beef  cut  in  small  bits 
s  tablespoonfui  of  flour  and  one  of  butter  or  suet.  Add  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  stir  well  and  add  the  bits  of  meat.     Put  in  half  of  a  bay  leaf  or  a 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  23 

pinch  of  celery  seed.  Cook  very  slowly  for  an  hour.  Just  before  serving 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  The  meat  will  be  tender,  the  flavor  excellent. 
The  browned  sugar,  or  caramel,  as  cooks  call  it,  does  not  give  a  percep- 
tibly sweet  flavor,  but  gives  ?   different  taste,  and  makes  brown  gravy. 

Brunswick  Stew. — Stew  a  large  fowl  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bone; 
remove  skin,  gristle  and  bones  and  chop  the  meat  in  coarse  pieces.  Return 
to  the  liquor;  add  a  pint  of  corn  scraped  from  the  ears,  a  pint  of  young 
Lima  beans,  three  cupfuls  of  tomato,  a  good-sized  onion,  minced  fine,  a 
pint  of  young  okras,  a  small  red  pepper,  minced,  a  little  celery  seed,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  salt,  pepper  and  Worcestershire  sauce  to 
taste.  Simmer  until  okra  is  tender  and  then  serve.  The  addition  of  n 
little  paprika  just  before  the  stew  is  taken  up  improves  it  greatly. 

Belgian  Hare. — If  you  broil  see  that  the  hares  are  young,  under  four 
or  five  months,  and  therefore  tender.  After  a  brief  soaking  in  water  into 
which  no  soda  or  salt  has  been  put  (if  the  hares  are  young  they  have 
no  unpalatable  flavor  and  consequently  great  care  must  be  taken  to  pre- 
serve their  natural  delicacy),  dry  well  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  gash  them 
down  the  back  through  the  thickest  portion;  then  flatten  each,  place  it 
on  a  gridiron,  and  broil  it  over  a  bed  of  coals,  turning  often,  or  you  may 
lay  them  smooth  on  the  bottom  of  a  dripping  pan  and  cook  in  a  hot 
oven  without  basting;  oil  the  pan  slightly  with  a  little  sweet  dripping, 
or  a  bit  of  fresh  butter;  they  should  be  done  in  half  an  hour. 

Stewed. — Cut  the  hares  into  joints,  drop  into  a  pot  and  cover  with 
boiling  water;  then  slice  in  an  onion  and  a  bit  of  bacon,  and  stew  slowly 
one  hour  or  until  tender.  As  old  hares  are  best  stewed,  it  will  do  no 
harm  to  put  in  a  young  chicken,  stewing  all  together.  At  the  end  of 
half  an  hour  add  a  few  potatoes,  peeled,  and  cut  in  quarters,  and,  if  liked, 
some  small  bits  of  light  paste,  after  the  potatoes  get  fairly  boiling.  When 
all  are  done,  stir  in  a  little  cream  thickened  with  white  flour,  boil  up  a 
moment  and  dish  for  the  table. 

Fried. — Disjoint,  cut  uniform  pieces,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 
let  it  simmer  until  quite  tender.  Then  remove  carefully  to  a  dry  dish. 
Dredge  well  with  flour,  and  drop  into  very  hot  butter  to  brown.  Serve 
with  gravy  made  from  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled  and  cream.  Two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  added  while  boiling  are  an  improvement. 

Roast  Hare. — Make  a  dressing  of  fine  dry  bread  crumbs;  part  graham 
is  best.  Add  to  the  crumbs  a  small  lump  of  fresh  butter,  a  little  dry 
sage  (or  other  herb,  if  preferred),  and  moisten  well  with  tepid  water, 
stirring  well  as  you  add  it.  Do  not  put  in  too  much  water ;  have  the 
dressing  light  and  flaky,  not  wet  and  heavy.  The  large  and  delicious 
liver  of  the  hare,  having  been  thoroughly  steamed  will  add  an  unwonted 
zest  if  chopped  into  bits  and  put  into  the  stuffing.  Fill  the  hares  with 
this,  leaving  plenty  of  room  for  the  dressing  to  swell,  sew  up,  put  the 


24  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

hares  into  a  dripping  pan,  add  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  roast  as 
slowly  as  possible  during  the  first  half  hour.  Baste  every  15  or  20  min- 
utes, turning  as  needed,  and  if  any  part  browns  too  fast,  cover  it  with. a 
clean  napkin  wet  in  warm  water  and  folded  two  or  three  times.  Allow 
from  one  to  two  hours  for  roasting;  test  with  a  fork  to  ascertain  when 
the  hares  are  done;  take  them  out  of  the  pan  and  make  the  gravy,  drain 
the  grease  all  off  and  set  the  pan  on  the  stove ;  then  put  in  any  tid-bits 
(as  the  liver,  etc.),  and  the  liquor  in  which  they  are  boiled;  thicken  with 
a  little  browned  flour  wet  with  milk  or  water,  and  boil  up  a  moment. 

Canning  Meat. — Half  cook  the  meat  in  a  kettle,  cut  meat  from  the 
bcnes.  If  this  is  done  while  the  meat  is  hot,  wring  out  a  cloth  from 
cold  or  tepid  water,  fold  in  several  thicknesses,  and  set  under  the  glass 
can,  letting  cloth  come  up  about  an  inch  around  sides  of  can,  and  it  will 
not  break,  no  matter  how  hot  the  meat  may  be.  If  you  spill  more  broth 
on  the  cloth  be  sure  to  wring  out  extra  water  from  it,  for  if  the  cloth 
is  sopping  wet,  the  can  will  break.  Having  filled  can  with  meat,  pour  in 
all  the  broth  the  can  will  hold,  and  see  that  it  is  salted  and  peppered 
just  right  for  the  table.  Screw  on  cover  without  rubber  and,  if  hot  put  in 
kettle  partly  filled  with  hot  water,  putting  a  tin  in  bottom  of  kettle  to 
set  cans  on.  Three  quarts  can  be  put  in  com.mon-sized  kettle.  Cover 
with  a  well-fitting  cover  that  will  keep  in  the  steam,  and  keep  boiling  for 
two  hours.  Take  out  one  can  at  a  time,  and  at  once  put  on  a  good  rubber. 
If  you  want  to  keep  the  meat  for  several  months,  if  it  is  chicken,  veal  or 
beef,  have  hot  melted  beef  suet  and  fill  the  cans  even  full.  If  you  only 
care  to  keep  the  meat  for  two  or  three  weeks  fill  up  even  full  with  boiling 
broth.  This  work  must  be  done  with  dispatch,  not  letting  the  contents 
of  the  can  cool  in  the  least.  Screw  on  the  cover  to  the  last  limit,  and 
if  your  covers  and  rubbers  are  not  defective  your  meat  will  keep  per- 
fectly. In  canning  pork  there  is  nearly  always  sufficient  grease  to  broth; 
if  not  the  can  may  be  filled  with  lard. 

Canning  Meat  in  Tins. — Trim  off  all  surplus  tallow  from  meat,  and 
either  boil  or  roast  the  beef,  using  but  little  salt  and  pepper,  preferably 
none  at  all,  as  these  will  attack  the  tin ;  meat  can  be  spiced,  etc.,  when 
removed  from  can  to  serve.  When  cooked  remove  from  liquid  and  trim 
off  from  bones.  If  liquid  is  too  greasy  let  it  get  cold  and  then  remove 
tallow.  While  again  heating  liquid  and  meat  boiling  hot  get  the  cans  and 
covers  ready,  the  covers  to  be  pierced  by  an  awl  in  the  center.  Use  the 
friction  top  tin  can  only,  for  keeping  meat  through  the  Summer  and  dog 
days.  You  can  use  glass  jars  to  keep  same  till  May,  but  they  are  risky 
during  warm  weather.  When  meat  and  liquid  are  hot  pack  meat  into  the 
cans — any  size  you  wish — not  quite  full,  and  pour  liquid  over  same  so  as 
to  cover  meat  somewhat,  then  place  on  the  covers  good  and  tight.  Put 
cans  into  oven  and  bake  one  to  two  hours.     If  cans  are  too  full,  liquid 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  25 

will  ooze  through  vent.  The  baking  will  drive  out  every  particle  or  atom 
of  air  through  vent,  and  is  absolutely  necessary  for  safety.  When  nearly 
done  baking  liquefy  some  paraffin  or  sealing  wax,  and  heat  a  soldering 
iron.  The  paraffin  is  t-o  seal  cover  airtight  around  edge,  and  the  soldering 
iron  to  use  with  solder  to  close  up  vent  opening  in  center.  Take  out  of 
oven  a  can  at  a  time  and  solder  vent  opening  as  quickly  as  possible,  then 
paraffin  the  edge  of  cover.  Place  cans — after  finishing  job — where  it  is 
dry  and  cool.     A  steer  can  be  packed  into  about  50  or  60  quart  cans. 

Chicken  Baked  in  Milk. — ^Dress  and  joint  a  chicken  of  four  to  six 
pounds,  dust  each  piece  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  roll  in  fiour.  Put  the 
chicken  in  a  roasting  pan  or  casserole  that  it  will  half  fill,  then  pour  over 
it  enough  sweet  milk  to  cover  the  chicken  completely.  Put  a  close-fitting 
lid  on  the  baker,  and  put  it  in  the  oven,  cooking  the  chicken  until  tender; 
it  will  take  from  two  to  2^  hours.  This  requires  but  little  attention  while 
cooking,  the  meat  is  tender  and  juicj-,  and  the  gravy  delicious.  It  is  an 
excellent  way  to  cook  an  elderly  fowl;  a  young  bird  will,  of  course,  cook 
in  a  shorter  time.  As  it  really  gains  in  flavor  by  being  warmed  over,  it 
can  be  cooked  on  Saturday  for  the  Sunday  dinner,  thus  lessening  work. 

Broiled  Chicken. — Take-  broilers  of  suitable  age  or  size,  dress  in  the 
usual  way,  split  down  the  back  and  remove  breast  bone^  which  can  be 
easily  done  by  running  finger  along  it.  Place  right  side  up  in  dripping 
pan,  season  with  plenty  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  put  in  a  hot  oven 
for  20  minutes  to  "draw"  or  heat  well  through.  Take  out ;  if  cooking 
with  gas  turn,  and  put  under  flame  a  few  minutes  to  brown ;  then  brown 
the  top,  but  do  not  burn.  If  cooking  on  stove  with  fuel  proceed  the  same 
way  on  toaster  or  gridiron. 

Broiled  Chicken,  O.  W.  Mapes's  Recipe. — The  first  essential  of  course 
is  to  have  a  nice  fat  chicken.  This  should  be  split  through  the  back  and 
laid  in  a  shallow  basin.  Now  place  the  basin  containing  the  chicken  in  a 
steamer  and  steam  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  The  basin  will  catch  all  the 
juices  which  drip  from  the  meat.  These  should  all  be  saved  and  used  in 
making  the  gravy.  As  soon  as  it  is  steamed  sufficiently  place  in  a  well- 
buttered  pan  and  fry  until  well  browned ;  remove  the  meat  and  add  the 
juices  from  steaming  to  make  a  good  gravy.  This  method  never  has 
failed  to  bring  satisfaction  to  both  cook  and  guests.  Possibly  it  would 
be  equally  as  good  with  older  birds  by  allowing  more  time  in  the  steaming. 
Spring  Chicken  Fried  in  Cream. — Put  a  pint  of  rich  cream  in  a  frying 
pan  over  a  moderate  fire  till  it  begins  to  color,  dip  the  different  parts  of 
the  chicken  in  flour,  fry  in  the  cream  on  each  side  till  it  is  a  delicate  brown. 
When  done  put  it  on  a  hot  platter,  pour  another  half  pint  of  cream  into 
the  pan,  let  it  boil  one  minute,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper,  then  pour  it  over  the  chicken.  Serve  garnished  with  sprigs  of 
parsley  and  a  dish  of  puffed  potato  slices. 


26  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Jugged  Chicken.— Cut  the  bird  up  as  for  a  fricassee.  To  every  pound 
allow  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  mix  thoroughly  and  roll  each 
piece  of  chicken  in  the  mixture,  then  pack  closely  in  a  large  bean-pot; 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  until  tender — from  two 
to  three  hours.  When  placed  in  the  pot  sprinkle  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
minced  onion.  When  done  remove  to  a  hot  platter,  thicken  the  liquor 
for  gravy  and  serve  in  a  boat. 

Chicken  Loaf. — Mince  fine  two  cupfuls  of  cold  cooked  chicken,  one 
pound  of  lean  veal  and  one-fourth  pound  of  fat  salt  pork.  Work  in  these 
three  beaten  eggs,  a  cupful  of  seasoned  and  strained  tomato  sauce,  one 
teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon  peel,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  paprika  and  enough  cracker  crumbs  to  mold  with  the  hands. 
Press  firmly  into  a  large  wet  bowl,  invert  carefully  into  a  buttered  baking 
pan,  removing  bowl.  Add  one  cupful  of  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  to  the  pan.  Sift  buttered  crumbs  lightly  over  the  loaf  and  cover 
the  top  and  sides  with  carefully  peeled  and  sliced  lemons.  Bake  V/z 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  browning  it  nicely  before  serving.  Baste  fre- 
quently with  the  liquor.     Serve  garnished  with  lemon  slices  and  parsley. 

Paprika  Chicken. — This  is  a  favorite  Hungarian  dish.  Cut  a  nice 
tender  chicken  into  pieces  as  for  a  fricassee;  flatten  a  little,  such  pieces 
as  need  it.  Season  each  piece  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  it  lightly 
with  flour,  while  you  fry  a  minced  onion  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Lay  the  chicken  in  the  butter  and  onion,  cooking  for  20  minutes,  so  it  will 
be  evenly  and  thoroughly  done.  Take  up  the  chicken  and  stir  in  an  even 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  very  scant  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  or  half  a 
scant  teaspoonful  of  good  mild  cayenne  pepper  of  any  kind.  Add  last 
of  all  a  cupful  of  rich  cream.  Make  some  dumplings  of  a  pint  of  sifted 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and 
butter  the  size  of  half  an  tgg;  moisten  the  dumplings  with  a  cupful  of 
milk,  and  drop  them  over  the  sauce.  Let  them  cook  well,  covered  for 
50  minutes,  when  they  will  be  well  puffed  up  and  light.  Pour  the  sauce 
around  the  chicken  and  make  a  circle  of  the  dumplings.  If  the  dumplings 
are  steamed  over  the  cream  sauce  so  they  do  not  sink  into  it  they  will 
be  lighter. 

Panned  Fowl  with  Oysters. — Cut  the  fowl  into  pieces  suitable  for 
serving;  lay  them  in  a  baking  dish,  flesh  side  down;  season  with  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  a  fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  cover  with  thin 
slices  of  salt  pork.  Put  one  cupful  of  boiling  water  in  the  pan,  cover 
closely  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  half  an  hour  (for  young  chickens).  Remove 
the  cover  and  baste  every  10  minutes  for  another  half  hour,  turning  the 
pieces  so  they  will  brown.  Remove  to  a  hot  platter,  add  half  a  cupful  of 
rich  milk  or  cream  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  first  skimming  off  all  fat; 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  27 

place  on  the  top  of  the  range  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  same 
of  butter  blended  together;  when  it  boils  add  a  cupful  of  well-washed 
(and  cleaned  from  shells)  oysters;  watch  carefully  and  as  soon  as  the 
oysters  are  plump  remove  them  from  the  fire;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
finely-chopped  parsley  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Pour  around 
the  fowl;  garnish  with  celery  tips.  An  old  fowl  will  require  longer 
cooking. 

Chicken  Pie,  Southern  Style. — Select  a  fowl  weighing  four  or  five 
pounds ;  clean  carefully,  singe  and  put  it  on  in  boiling  water  enough  to 
cover  it,  and  let  it  sim.mer  gently  until  it  begins  to  grow  tender.  Save 
this  broth  with  the  giblets.  Now  cut  the  chicken  in  small  pieces ;  slice  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  pork  very  thin  and  fry  it  with  the  chicken 
until  it  is  brown.  After  the  chicken  and  pork  are  fried  take  them  up 
and  stir  into  the  pan  in  which  they  were  cooked  a  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Stir  it  over  the  fire  until  brown ;  then  add  a  pint  of  the  chicken  broth,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Stir  this  gravy 
until  it  has  boiled  two  minutes  and  use  it  for  pie.  To  make  the  crust : 
Mix  together  in  a  bowl  with  a  knife  one  pound  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  and  just  enough  cold  water  to  hold 
it  together.  Roll  it  out  about  an  inch  thick;  cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  in  large  slices,  and  lay  it  all  over  the  paste;  fold  it  up  and 
wrap  in  a  floured  towel  and  put  in  the  ice  box  for  half  an  hour.  Roll 
it  out,  repeating  same  with  another  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  roll  it 
to  a  thickness  of  half  an  inch,  fold  it  in  three  thicknesses  and  roll  it  out 
again.  If  the  butter  breaks  through,  fold  it  again  in  a  towel  and  cool  for 
half  an  hour  before  using.  Line  a  deep  dish ;  then  put  in  alternate  layers 
of  chicken,  pork  and  sliced  raw  potatoes ;  pour  in  as  much  gravy  as  the 
dish  will  hold.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  a  dash  more  pepper 
and  salt,  and  cover  with  a  top  crust,  wetting  the  edges  to  make  them 
adhere.     Cut  a  hole  in  the  top  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape. 

Chicken  Potpie  with  Stirred  Dumplings. — Cut  up  the  fowl  for  serving, 
wash,  put  in  a  deep  stewpan,  and  add  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  salt, 
pepper  and  a  bay  leaf.  Cook  one  large  onion,  and  about  three  slices  each 
of  turnip  and  carrot,  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  cook  till  soft; 
mash  and  add  to  stew;  then  dip  out  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  fat  from 
the  stew,  put  with  the  butter,  and  when  boiling  stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour.  Stir  over  the  fire  till  brown,  then  stir  into  the  chicken  to 
thicken  it.  A  year-old  chicken  will  need  two  hours'  cooking;  it  should 
only  simmer,  without  hard  boiling.  For  dumplings,  into  a  quart  of  wheat 
flour  sift  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Sift  at  least  three  times.  Then  stir  in  rich,  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  batter,  not  thick  as  can  be  stirred  nor  yet  soft  enough  to  run. 
Drop  in  spoonfuls  over  the  top  of  the  boiling  potpie  a  half  hour  before 


28  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

dinner  time.  Should  there  be  so  much  gravy  that  the  batter  would  sink 
beneath  its  surface  remove  a  bowlful.  Cover  closely  and  keep  constantly 
boiling.  Serve  the  dinner  on  a  large  meat  platter,  arranging  the  dumplings 
about  its  border,  heaping  the  meat  and  potatoes  in  the  center  and  serving 
the  gravy  from  a  gravy  boat.  In  taking  up  the  dumplings  tear  them  apart 
with  two  forks  instead  of  using  a  knife  or  spoon. 

Smothered  Chicken. — Have  a  year-old  chicken  split  as  for  broiling. 
Wipe  dry,  spread  it  liberally  with  butter  all  over,  dust  with  flour  and 
pepper,  and  place,  skin  side  down,  in  a  dripping  pan  (over  a  meat  rack). 
Pour  in  a  cupful  boiling  water,  add  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  cover  closely 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  one  hour.  Then  turn  the  chicken  skin  side  up, 
sprinkle  with  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  brown  uncovered,  10  or  15 
minutes.  Cut  up  the  giblets,  which  have  been  cooked  tender  in  one  pint 
of  water,  add  a  level  dessertspoonful  flour  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg  with  the  water  from  the  giblets,  which  will  be  reduced  to  about 
a  cupful,  and  stir  all  in  the  dripping  pan,  seasoning  with  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  a  good  dash  of  pepper,  parsley  or  sweet  marjoram.  Joint  the 
chicken  that  it  may  be  easily  carved,  but  do*  not  separate  it.  Serve  on  a 
platter  with  the  gravy  poured  around. 

Victoria  Chicken. — Procure  a  young  chicken  of  three  and  one-half 
pounds  in  weight,  singe,  draw  and  wash  it,  cut  the  chicken  into  10  pieces, 
season  with  half  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  half  tablespoonful  of  salt;  rub 
the  seasoning  and  the  chicken  well  together.  Cut  half  pound  bacon  into 
slices,  remove  the  rind  and  place  the  bacon  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  let 
it  lie  five  minutes,  then  drain.  Put  the  bacon  into  a  saucepan  and  fry  to 
a  delicate  brown,  then  take  out  the  bacon.  Put  the  chicken  into  the  bacon 
fat,  add  half  tablespoonful  butter,  cover  and  cook  slowly  for  30  minutes, 
turning  the  chicken  with  a  fork  three  times  during  that  time,  then  lay 
the  chicken  in  a  round  pan  with  the  slices  of  bacon  between,  pour  over 
three  cups  of  cream,  cover  the  pan  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  medium-hot 
oven.  When  ready  to  serve  lay  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  six 
bread  croutons  in  a  circle  around  the  dish,  strain  the  sauce  over  the 
chicken  and  serve. 

Deviled  Mutton. — This  is  a  nice  way  to  warm  up  cold  roast  mutton  6t 
lamb.  Put  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  into  a  stewpah  with  otie 
ounce  of  butter.  Place  it  over  a  slow  fire,  keep  the  onions  stirred  until 
rather  brown,  then  add  some  flour,  mix  it  in  well  and  fry  for  five  min- 
utes ;  then  pour  in  one-half  pint  of  gravy  well  seasoned,  and  let  it  boil 
until  thickened  and  brown;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  one  of 
vinegar,  one  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  few  chopped  gherkins  and  a  few 
button  mushrooms  if  at  hand;  put  in  the  mutton,  which  has  been  pre- 
viously sliced  in  thin  slices  and  perfectly  free  from  fat;  let  it  remain  a 
few  minutes  and  simmer,  not  boil. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  29 

Flank  Steak,  Rolled. — Spread  a  steak  weighing  about  2^^  pounds  with 
a  dressing  composed  of  V/i  cupful  bread  crumbs — dip  the  crusts  previously 
in  boiling  water  that  they  may  easily  crumble — one  medium-sized  onion, 
two  tablespoonfuls  canned  tomato,  one  beaten  o^gg,  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspooriful  pepper.  Stir  egg 
with  bread,  add  the  onion  sliced,  tomato,  butter  and  seasoning.  After 
spreading  roll  snugly  and  tie  with  pieces  of  string.  Lay  three  slices  of 
salt  pork  on  top,  place  in  dripping  pan  with  one-half  cupful  water.  Roast 
slowly  one  hour.     May  be  eaten  hot  with  gravy,  or  cold. 

Goulash. — Cut  two  leeks  or  onions,  small-sized  ones,  into  fine  pieces, 
and  fry  them  in  hot  butter  till  they  are  brown.  Add  one  cupful  of  beef 
broth,  a  little  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika  or  red  pepper,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour.  Stir  until  smooth,  then  strain. 
Have  ready  one-half  pound  of  raw  steak,  cut  into  quarter-inch  squares. 
The  better  the  steak,  necessarily,  the  better  tlie  result  will  be,  and  there- 
fore porterhouse  is  preferred.  Toss  the  meat  into  a  frying  pan  just  long 
enough  to  cook  the  outside,  tlien  add  the  sauce.  Add  two  warm  boiled 
potatoes,  cut  into  good-sized  pieces,  and  let  the  pan  remain  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  15  minutes  before  serving. 

Goose,  Braised. — Braised  goose  is  superior  to  a  roast,  in  the  taste  of 
many,  the  bird  acquiring  flavor  from  the  vegetables  with  it.  The  oven 
is  the  place  for  the  cooking,  and  a  porcelain-lined  iron  pot  or  earthen 
cooking  crock  (either  having  a  tight-fitting  cover)  gives  the  best  results. 
Prepare  the  goose  as  for  roasting,  but  do  not  stuff.  In  the  baking  dish 
put  a  layer  of  chopped  or  sliced  onions,  celery,  turnips,  carrots  and  two 
apples.  Sprinkle  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  powdered  sage  and 
six  shakes  of  pepper.  Lay  the  goose  upon  them,  pour  over  it  two  cupfuls 
of  boiling  water,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper,  powdered  sage  and  flour.  Cover 
closely  and  cc^k  slowly  for  at  least  four  hours  (allow  25  minutes  to  the 
pound).  Turn  the  goose  every  two  hours.  Add  more  water  if  necessary. 
Less  time  is  required  if  a  roaster  is  used.  When  tender,  remove  the 
goose.  Rub  the  vegetables  and  gravy  through  a  colander,  return  to  the 
fire  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour.  Boil  up  once  and  serve 
in  a  boat.     Garnish  the  goose  with  parsley. 

Gumbo. — This  takes  four  hours  to  make.  Put  into  a  kettle  two  pounds 
of  lean  soup  beef,  one-half  a  chicken  that  has  been  jointed,  a  small  ham 
bone,  or  a  good-sized  slice  of  lean  bacon,  a  slice  of  green  pepper  and  a 
square  inch  of  onion.  Add  three  quarts  of  water  and  boil  or  simmer 
gently,  skimming  often  for  two  hours.  At  the  end  of  this  time  add  three 
pints  of  okra  that  has  first  been  cut  in  slices  and  fried  lightly  in  a  very 
small  amount  of  butter,  also  a  large  potato  cut  in  pieces,  which  gradually 
breaks  and  thickens  the  soup.  An  hour  later,  after  frequent  skimmings, 
add  a  full  quart  of  tomatoes  and  the  corn  cut  from  two  large  ears,  also 


30  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

the  cobs,  and  boil  gently  for  another  hour.  Then  remove  the  corncobs 
and  what  is  left  of  the  beef,  and  the  chicken  bones,  leaving  the  chicken 
meat  in  the  stew;  season  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 
Dry  boiled  rice  is  nice  served  with  this  gumbo,  which  is  a  stew  rather 
than  a  soup.  Many  recipes  for  gumbo  call  for  a  small  quantity  of  "fillet 
powder" ;   this   is  the  tender  young  green  leaves   of  sassafras   powdered. 

Ham,  Curing. — This  is  a  Virginia  method.  For  curing  four  hams, 
averaging  12  pounds  each,  have  ready  one  and  a  half  gallons  of  the  best 
salt,  one  pound  of  good  brown  sugar,  one-eighth  pound  of  powdered 
saltpeter,  one  ounce  of  black  pepper  and  one-half  ounce  of  cayenne.  Cut 
the  joints  into  proper  shapes,  without  unnecessary  bone  and  fat,  and  lay 
them  on  a  board  on  table.  First  rub  the  skin  well  with  salt  and  lay 
each  joint  aside,  then  begin  over  again,  and  into  the  fleshy  side  of  each 
ham  rub  two  teaspoonfuls  of  saltpeter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  brown 
sugar  mixed  together.  Rub  the  pepper,  particularly,  about  the  hock  and 
under  the  bone  and  give  to  the  whole  ham  a  good  application  of  salt. 
Now  pack  the  hams,  one  upon  another,  the  skin  side  downward,  with  a 
layer  of  salt  between,  into  a  tub  or  box,  the  bottom  of  which  has  also 
been  covered  with  salt.  The  process  of  salting  will  be  complete  in  five 
weeks.  At  the  end  of  that  time  have  ready  about  a  peck  of  hickory 
ashes ;  clean  the  hams  with  a  brush  or  dry  cloth  and  rub  them  with  the 
ashes.  To  smoke  the  hams  the  joints  should  be  hung  from  joists  beneath 
the  ceiling  and  a  slow,  smothered  fire  kept  up  for  five  or  six  weeks,  so 
as  to  smoke  thoroughly,  but  not  overheat  the  hams.  Or,  as  an  excellent 
substitute  for  this  process,  paint  the  hams  with  a  coating  of  pyroligneous 
acid,  let  them  dry  and  repeat  the  operation.  Wrap  each  ham  in  paper 
and  encase  it  in  a  canvas  or  strong  cotton  bag. 

A  simple  way  to  salt  bacon  and  hams  in  brine  is  to  rub  the  meat  well 
with  salt,  especially  into  the  exposed  ends  of  bones,  and  then  pack  into 
a  barrel,  with  a  layer  of  salt  between  each  piece.  Allow  the  meat  to 
remain  thus  for  48  hours,  then  pour  over  all  a  brine  strong  enough  to 
bear  up  an  tgg.    Let  the  meat  remain  in  pickle  six  weeks ;  then  smoke. 

Molasses  pickle  is  made  as  follows :  To  four  quarts  of  fine  salt  and 
two  ounces  of  pulverized  saltpeter  add  enough  molasses  to  make  a  paste. 
Hang  the  hams  in  a  cool  dry  place  for  three  or  four  days  after  cutting 
up;  then  cover  with  the  pickle  mixture,  thickest  on  the  flesh  side,  and  lay 
them  skin  down  for  three  or  four  days.  For  100  pounds  of  ham  make 
brine  in  the  following  proportion:  Seven  pounds  coarse  salt;  two  ounces 
saltpeter;  one-half  ounce  pearlash;  four  gallons  soft  water.  Heat  grad- 
ually, removing  all  scum  as  it  arises,  then  cool.  Pack  the  hams  in  a 
barrel,  pour  the  brine  over  them,  and  keep  in  pickle  five  to  eight  weeks, 
according  to  size. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  31 

Ham,  Sugar  Cured. — To  50  pounds  of  ham  or  "side  bacon"  allow  three 
pounds  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  molasses,  six  pounds  of  salt,  one  fuld 
tablespoonful  of  saleratus  and  the  same  of  saltpeter.  Cover  the  bottom 
of  your  firkin  with  salt  (about  two  pounds).  Mix  sugar,  molasses,  salt- 
peter, saleratus  and  the  remaining  salt  into  a  paste.  Rub  each  piece 
thoroughly  with  this,  work  it  in  well  and  hard,  and  pack  into  the  firkin, 
the  rind  downward.  Cover  all  with  cold  water — just  enough  to  rise  above 
the  meat.  Lay  a  heavy  board  on  top,  weight  it  with  a  stone  to  keep  the 
meat  under  water,  and  leave  it  thus  for  four  weeks,  turning  the  meat  and 
stirring  up  the  pickle  every  week.  Take  out,  then  wipe,  rub  into  the 
pieces  as  much  dry  salt  and  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  as  they  will  take 
up;  pack  in  a  dry  firkin  and  leave  for  24  hours  before  sending  to  the 
smokehouse. 

Hamburg  Steak,  Baked. — One  and  one-half  pound  raw  chopped  beef, 
two  cupfuls  of  stale  bread  softened  with  half  a  cupful  of  hot  milk  and 
cooled,  two  eggs,  small  onion  minced,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  saltspoonful 
of  pepper  and  pinch  of  ginger.  Mix  well  and  shape  into  a  square;  place 
m  baking  pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato,  small  onion  and  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut  on  top  of  meat.  Bake  one  hour,  basting  frequently. 
The  potatoes  should  be  boiled  15  minutes,  then  drained,  pared  and  placed 
in  pan  with  the  Hamburg  steak  to  cook  45  minutes,  being  turned  and 
basted  often.  Medium-sized  potatoes  are  best  for  this.  Serve  arranged 
around  the  meat. 

Hungarian  Hamburg  Steak. — Beat  an  egg  into  a  bowl,  stir  in  bread 
crumbs  (about  a  cupful),  a  small  onion,  grated,  salt  and  paprika  (a  mild- 
flavored  cayenne  pepper).  The  meat  is  stirred  into  this,  and  after  thor- 
ough mixing  is  formed  into  a  ball.  An  onion  is  fried  brown  in  butter, 
put  into  an  earthen  saucepan  with  a  tight-fitting  cover,  and  the  meat  ball 
is  added,  with  two  tomatoes  cut  into  quarters  around  it.  After  simmering 
for  half  an  hour  the  meat  is  turned  gently,  so  as  not  to  break  the  ball, 
then  allowed  to  cook  quietly  for  nearly  an  hour,  and  served  with  the 
vegetables  as  a  garnish. 

Senator  Hanna's  Hash. — This  is  the  recipe  given  by  the  Boston  Cook- 
ing School.  Take  equal  portions  of  tender  boiled  corned  beef  and  mealy 
boiled  potatoes.  Cut  the  potatoes  into  small  cubes  and  the  meat  as  fine 
as  possible.  Mix  thoroughly  with  these  a  small  onion,  chopped  very  fine ; 
a  slice  of  onion  is  often  sufficient.  Butter  a  hot  frying  pan  and  turn  into 
it  chopped  materials.  Press  into  the  center  of  the  mass  a  clove  of  garlic, 
wrapped  in  a  piece  of  salt  pork  or  mild  cured  bacon.  Set  over  a  moderate 
fire,  cover  and  let  cook,  adding  a  small  quantity  of  water,  if  moist  hash 
is  preferred;  when  heated,  stir,  remove  the  garlic  and  give  the  whole 
round  shape.  Let  stand  in  the  oven  until  browned  underneath,  then 
carefully  slide  on  a  serving  dish.     While  the  hash  is  cooking  cut  one  or 


32  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

two  Bermuda  onions  into  thin  slices  and  fry  until  crisp  in  deep  fat.  Use 
these  as  a  garnish  for  the  hash  (or  omit  if  preferred).  Serve  with  lemon 
quarters. 

Hot-Pot. — Two  pounds  of  cross-rib  is  cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  in 
an  earthen  saucepan,  with  two  minced  onions,  five  or  six  small  green  pep- 
pers, whole,  a  few  chives,  a  handful  of  seeded  raisins,  a  cupful  of  to- 
matoes, peeled  and  sliced,  eight  or  10  olives,  a  bit  of  thyme,  a  big  table - 
spoonful  of  drippings,  salt  to  taste,  and  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  water. 
The  pot  is  covered  tightly,  and  the  mixture  simmered  slowly  until  the 
meat  is  cooked  to  pieces ;  then  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  well  coated  with 
flour  is  stirred  in  to  thicken  the  gravy. 

Liver  and  Bacon  in  Casserole. — Slice  liver  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  put  in  a  buttered  saucepan,  peppering  lightly.  Over  the  liver  lay  a 
dozen  thin  slices  of  bacon,  and  strew  these  with  chopped  onion  and  par- 
sley. Cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  for  about  two  hours.  The  cooking 
must  not  be  hurried.  When  ready  to  serve  the  liver,  let  the  gravy,  with 
the  bacon  in  it,  boil  hard  for  two  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the  the 
liver  in  the  serving  dish. 

Liver,  Fried  in  New  Orleans  Style. — Cut  a  pound  of  calf's  liver  in  half- 
inch  cubes.  After  washing  and  draining,  place  in  a  bowl  which  has  been 
rubbed  with  an  onion.  Between  two  layers  of  liver  place  a  layer  of 
chopped  onion  and  parsley,  sprinkling  with  salt  and  dusting  lightly  with 
cayenne.  After  half  an  hour  take  out  the  liver  and  shake  off  all  the 
onion.  Roll  lightly  in  flour  and  drop  into  a  deep  kettle  of  boiling  fat. 
Drain  on  paper  and  serve  very  hot  with  lemon.  The  liver  cooks  to  de- 
licious tenderness  and  delicacy  of   flavor. 

Calves'  Liver,  English  Style. — Two  pounds  of  fresh  liver,  one-half 
pound  fat  salt  pork,  one  spoonful  of  butter,  half  an  onion,  one  spoonful 
chopped  parsley  and  pepper.  Put  the  butter  in  a  warm,  not  hot,  sauce- 
pan, cut  the  liver  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick  and  lay  upon  the  butter; 
mince  the  pork  and  cover  the  liver;  sprinkle  the  parsley  and  onion  with 
pepper  on  top;  cover  the  saucepan  closely  and  set  it  into  a  kettle  of  hot 
water;  keep  this  water  below  the  boiling  point  for  an  hour,  then  let  it 
boil  another  hour;  the  liver  will  by  this  time  be  very  tender  and  juicy 
if  the  heat  has  been  properly  adjusted.  Take  it  out  and  place  it  in  a 
dish  to  keep  warm.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  brown  butter  and  pour  over 
the  liver  and  serve. 

English  Meat  Pie.— Chop  cold  beef  finely,  put  in  a  deep  baking  dish 
a  layer  of  the  meat,  strew  lightly  with  bread  crumbs,  season  highly  with 
salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice;  repeat  the  process 
till  the  dish  is  full  or  your  meat  used  up.  Pour  over  it  a  cup  of  stock 
or  gravy,  or,  lacking  these,  hot  water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  melted 
in  it;  on  top  a  good  layer  of  bread  crumbs  should  be  put  and  seasoned 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  S3 

and  dotted  with  butter.  Cover  and  bake  half  an  hour;  remove  the  cover 
and  brown. 

Mock  Duck. — Four  pork  tenderloins;  slash  lengthwise,  rub  with  salt 
and  pepper,  fill  with  dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs,  one  onion,  one  egg, 
one-half  cupful  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  tie  together  and  bake  in 
roaster.  Serve  with  hot  apple  sauce  made  as  follows:  Pare  and  quarter 
(if  large,  cut  in  eighths)  as  many  apples  as  the  family  appetite  requires. 
Fut  a  layer  of  apples  in  a  granite  or  enameled  shallow  pan,  put  bits  of 
butter,  goodly  supply  sugar  and  dash  of  cinnamon  on  the  apples.  Do  this 
in  layers  till  pan  is  full;  add  a  little  water  and  bake  till  rich  and  clear, 
not  just  barely  done. 

Mutton  Mince  With  Eggs. — Scrape  every  morsel  of  meat  from  the 
bone,  crack  the  latter,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  it  simmer  at  the 
hack  of  the  stove  for  four  or  five  hours.  Strain  off  the  cupful  of  liquid 
and  thicken  with  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  browned  flour;  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  tomato  catsup;  stir  into  it  the  cold  mutton  cut  small 
and  a  handful  of  bread  crumbs,  strewing  some  of  these  on  top;  bake 
until  the  surface  bubbles,  drop  four  or  five  eggs  upon  the  top,  pepper 
and  salt  them,  set  back  in  the  oven  and  leave  there  until  the  eggs  are 
"set." 

Mutton  Pie. — A  mutton  pie  made  from  the  neck  of  mutton  is  as 
savory  as  it  is  economical.  Cut  off  the  spine  bone  and  the  scrag  end, 
shorten  the  ribs  to  about  three  inches,  but  save  all  these  trimmings  to 
make  the  gravy  for  the  pie.  Cut  the  mutton  into  neat  chops,  pare  off 
the  fat,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place  in  the  deep  pie  dish  in  a 
circle,  one  lapping  over  the  other.  Fill  the  center  with  tiny  potato  balls 
cut  out  with  the  cutter;  add  the  mutton  gravy  which  has  been  boiled  to 
make  the  quantity  required,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  good 
pie  crust  brushed  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  tgg  and  bake  for  an  hour 
and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Ragout  of  Mutton. — Use  two  pounds  of  mutton  from  the  shoulder  or 
breast.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  about  two  inches  square.  Cut  up  some  of 
the  mutton  fat  which  has  not  touched  the  skin  and  fry  slowly  in  a  pan 
until  there  is  about  a  gill  of  liquid  fat;  take  out  the  solid  pieces  and  put 
in  the  mutton  and  stir  until  it  becomes  brown.  Take  the  meat  from  the 
fat,  being  careful  to  press  out  all  the  fat.  To  the  fat  add  one  pint  of 
turnip  cubes  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  onion  cut  fine;  cook  slowly  for 
10  minutes,  then  take  them  oqt  and  put  in  the  stew  pan  with  the  meat. 
Pour  the  fat  from  the  frying  pan  and  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  the  same  amount  of  flour;  stir  until  brown,  when  add  one  quart  of 
boiling  water.  When  this  thickens  add  it  to  the  meat  and  vegetables  with 
a  rounding  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Simmer  for  three  hours,  covered. 


34  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

"Pawnhas."— This  old-fashioned  dish  is  similar  to  scrapple.  Boil  to- 
gether the  "jowls,"  liver  and  heart  of  a  hog  until  very  tender.  Take  out 
all  bones,  chop  the  heart  and  meat  from  jowls  until  very  fine;;  crumble 
the  liver  as  finely  as  possible  and  put  all  back  into  the  kettle.  Now 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  be  sure  to  add  enough  v/ater  to  keeip 
it  from  being  too  rich  or  greasy.  Stir  in  white  cornmeal  until  you  have 
a  thin  mush,  let  cook  slowly  half  an  hour,  pour  into  a  large  crock  or 
jar;  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  slice  like  mush  and  put  into  a  skillet 
to  fry.  Add  no  grease.  This  is  delicious  and  will  keep  indefinitely  in 
a  cool  place. 

Pigeons,  Potted. — Place  six  cleaned  birds  in  a  deep  kettle  with  one 
pint  of  vinegar  and  three  onions,  halved;  let  stand  over  night,  then  throw 
the  vinegar  and  onions  away.  Brown  six  slices  of  pork  and  two  onions, 
sliced;  place  in  the  kettle  with  the  pigeons;  add  one  pint  of  hot  water, 
salt  and  pepper;  cover  and  simmer  about  two  hours;  serve  the  pigeons 
on  a  hot  dish  about  a  mound  of  parsley;  strain  the  liquor,  thicken,  and 
pass  in  a  gravy  boat. 

Pigs'  Feet  in  Jelly. — Thoroughly  scrape  and  clean  one  dozen  pigs'  feet. 
Place  them  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  salt  and  simmer  steadily  until  tender.  Transfer  the  feet  to  a  stone 
crock,  placing  between  them  thin  slices  of  Qnion.  Heat  and  boil  to- 
gether for  five  minutes  two  quarts  of  good  vinegar,  one  bay  leaf,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  dozen  whole  cloves,  six  tiny  red  peppers,  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  pour 
at  once  over  the  pigs'  feet.     Cover  and  let  stand  two  days  before  using. 

Pilgrim  Pie. — Cut  a  two-pound  piece  of  fresh  pork  into  dice,  after  it 
is  cooked,  and  prepare  the  following  crust :  One  pint  mashed  potatoes, 
owe-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one-fourth  teaspoon- 
ful pepper,  one-fourth  cup  of  milk,  one  level  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  crust  which  can  be  easily  rolled  out  one 
inch  thick.  Put  alternate  layers,  in  a  baking  dish,  of  the  diced  pork, 
raw  oysters,  minced  parsley,  a  light  dusting  of  Summer  savory,  finely 
shredded  onion,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  suit,  and  one  tablespoonful  but- 
ter; cover  with  a  brown  sauce;  fit  a  cover  of  the  potato  biscuit  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  20  minutes.  Five  minutes  before  it  is  finished  draw  out,  cover 
with  fine  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  one  tgg;  return  to  the  oven  to 
finish  browning;  garnish  with  parsley.  This  potato  crust  is  excellent  for 
any  meat  pie. 

Pork  With  Corn  Dumplings.^Cook  ai  piece  of  shoulder  of  pork  in  a 
big  pot  until  tender ;  then  mix  the  desired  quantity  of  cornmeal  to  a 
thick  dough  as  in  making  bread  (the  addition  of  an  tgg  to  the  dough  im- 
proves the  dumplings).  Drop  balls  of  the  dough  about  the  size  of  a 
walnut  in  the  boiling  water  about  the  meat  in  the  pot  and  cook  20  min- 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  35 

utes,  when  the  dumplings  will  be  done,  and  will  have  a  thick  gravy 
around  them.  Take  care  not  to  let  the  mixture  burn.  The  fat  and 
juices  of  the  meat  season  the  dumplings  excellently. 

Rabbit,  Jugged. — Select  a  plump  tender  rabbit.  Wash,  wipe  dry,  and 
cut  into  well-shaped  pieces.  Have  ready  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  rub  this  into  the  rabbit  pieces.  Put 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  on  a  plate  and  roll  each  piece  in  this.  Heat 
half  a  cupful  of  butter  in  frying  pan;  when  hot  fry  the  rabbit,  browning 
on  both  sides,  being  careful  not  to  burn  the  butter.  As  soon  as  it 
browns  put  the  rabbit  into  a  stewpan  and  into  the  hot  butter  stir  what  is 
left  of  the  flour  in  which  the  rabbit  was  rolled;  add  three  teacupfuls  hot 
water  and  cook  10  minutes.  Pour  this  over  the  rabbit,  adding  two 
cloves,  one-half  bayleaf,  two  or  three  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  pepper,  a  slice  or  two  of  onion.  Cover  closely  and 
simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Add  one  teaspoonful  lemon  juice  and 
one  tablespoonful  good  catsup.  Remove  the  rabbit  to  a  hot  platter; 
strain  what  liquid  is  left,  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
rubbed  smooth  and  a  cupful  of  hot  water;  boil  up  once,  pour  over  the 
rabbit  and  serve. 

Rabbit,  Breaded. — Dress  the  rabbit,  then  let  it  soak  over  night  in  cold 
salt  water.  Cut  into  neat  pieces,  and  boil  gently  until  tender  in  clear 
water  to  which  an  onion  has  been  added.  Let  it  cool  and  drain;  then 
dip  in  well-beaten  tg^,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  In  hot  butter. 
Serve  with  cranberry  sauce.  Barbecued  rabbit,  a  favorite  southern  dish, 
may  also  be  recommended:  Lay  the  rabbit  in  salt  and  water  30  minutes, 
then  scald  with  boiling  water  and  wipe  dry,  rub  well  with  butter,  and 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Broil  until  quite  brown,  and  lay  on  a 
hot  dish ;  butter  plentifully  on  both  sides.  Prepare  a  sauce  of  four  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  one  of  currant 
jelly  and  one  of  walnut  catsup.     Pour  this  hot  over  the  rabbit. 

Ragout  with  Dumplings.— Get  a  piece  of  nice,  fresh  round  steak, 
about  one  and  one-half  pound  (cut  thick).  Cut  it  into  pieces  about  an 
inch  square,  smother  it  with  flour,  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  red  pep- 
per. Brown  in  the  frying  pan  one  large  onion  or  two  small  ones,  with 
about  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter;  then  add  the  steak  and  brown. 
Put  the  whole  into  a  granite  saucepan,  pour  over  it  five  pints  of  boiling 
water  and  simmer  two  hours.  About  20  minutes  before  serving  make 
dumplings  as  follows:  A  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  a  little  salt  and  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  rub  in  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Mix 
very  soft  with  milk— so  soft  that  it  is  slightly  sticky;  drop  by  small 
spoonfuls   into  the  stew  and  cover  tightly  until   served. 

Sausage.— This  is  a  Virginia  recipe.  To  every  10  pounds  of  meat 
use  three  ounces  of  salt,  one  of  black  pepper,  one-half  ounce  of    sage 


36  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

rubbed  fine.  Having  all  ingredients  weighed,  put  a  layer  of  the  meat 
cut  in  strips,  sprinkle  the  mixed  seasoning  over  it,  another  layer  of  meat 
with  more  seasoning,  distributing  as  evenly  as  possible.  Run  twice 
throungh  the  grinder,  and  when  it  is  put  on  the  table  it  is  surprising 
to  see  how  quickly  it  vanishes.  Ordinary  pork  sausage,  smoked  in  bags, 
makes  a  desirable  change,  and  keeps  well.  Pack  the  sausage  meat  in 
small  bags  of  coarse,  strong  muslin,  the  size  selected  being  that  most 
convenient  for  slicing;  small  salt  sacks,  well  washed,  may  answer.  Close 
the  bags,  and  then  smoke,  just  like  ham,  the  amount  of  smoking  depend- 
mg  on  the  family  taste.  When  used,  split  down  the  seam  of  the  bag 
for  convenience  in  cutting  the  slices,   and  fry  like  ham. 

Sausage,  Bologna. — Six  pounds  of  lean  beef;  one  pound  salt  pork; 
three  pounds  lean  fresh  pork;  one  pound  beef  suet;  one  ounce  white  pep- 
per; one  teaspoonful  ground  mace;  three  ounces  salt;  one  teaspoonful 
cayenne;  one  large  onion  chopped  fine.  Chop  the  meat  and  suet  sep- 
arately very  fine,  then  mix;  add  all  the  seasoning,  and  m.ix  thoroughly. 
Fill  into  casings  and  tie  into  lengths,  or  use  strong  linen  bags.  Make  a 
brine  that  will  bear  an  egg;  put  the  sausage  into  it,  and  let  stand  two 
v/eeks,  turning  and  skimming  every  day.  At  the  end  of  the  first  week 
throw  away  the  old  brine,  and  put  the  sausage  into  new  for  the  second 
week;  then  smoke  for  a  week.  When  smoked  rub  over  the  outside  with 
olive  oil,  and  store  in  a  cool,  dark  dry  place.  If  you  wish  to  keep  the 
sausage  for  any  length  of  time  sprinkle  the  outside  with  pepper. 

Sausage,  Frankfurter. — Chop  up  pork,  lean  meat  and  fat  (ham  can 
be  used)  in  the  proportion  of  four  pounds  lean  to  one  of  fat.  To  a 
pound  of  the  mixture  season  with  salt,  11  grams,  one-half  gram  salt- 
petre, two  grams  white  pepper  and  one-half  gram  cloves.  Mix  the  whole 
so  intimately  that  "you  cannot  tell  the  fat  pieces  from  the  lean."  The 
more  thorough  the  mixing  the  better  the  result.  If  the  mixing  is  not 
free,  you  can  add  a  little  water,  but  do  not  overdo  this.  If  too  "waxy" 
from  excess  of  fat,  add  lean;  or,  the  other  way,  if  too  meaty.  Use  pig's 
cases  for  the  filling.  Tie  the  sausage  in  length  desired.  Hang  the  links 
well  apart  in  the  smokehouse.  Tolerable  heat  will  do  them  rightly 
enough,  but  if  you  want  the  deep  rich  tint  of  brown,  you  will  have  to 
finish  them  off  over  a  brick  fire.  It  is  hard  to  fix  the  temperature, 
as  the  smokehouse  in  the  open  will  be  cooler  than  the  one  indoors.  Test 
the  state  by  running  a  quill  in  and  examining  the  extract  by  the  taste, 
sight  and  smell.  Sometimes  they  are  put  in  bundles  of  10  or  12  folded 
together  and  pressed  to  flatten.  Keep  in  a  box  under  weight  before  put- 
ting in  the  smoke. 

Sausage,  Holland  Home. — Grind,  mix  and  season  the  meat  as  de- 
sired. Instead  of  stuffing  "cases,"  pack  in  half-gallon  stone  jars  (but- 
ter jars).    Bake  four  hours  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.    Remove  from 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  37 

the  oven  and  press  with  a  heavy  weight  12  hours — over  night  usually. 
Then  remove  the  weight.  There  will  be  some  fat,  but  not  enough  to 
cover  it.  Heat  lard  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour  over  enough  to  cover. 
This  seals— excludes  the  air.  Keep  in  a  cool  place.  Beef  or  pork  may  be 
kept  in  this  way  indefinitely. 

Oxford  Sausage.— One  pound  each  of  finely  chopped  veal,  pork  and 
beef  suet.  Mix  through  this  one  quart  of  bread  crumbs,  grated  peel  of 
half  a  lemon,  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  sprig  each  of  savory,  thyme  and  sweet 
marjoram  and  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sage  leaves.  Make  in  cakes 
and  fry  in  very  little  hot  butter. 

Sausage,  Pork  and  Beef. — For  10  pounds  of  sausage  use  seven  and 
one-half  pounds  of  pork  and  two  and  a  half  of  beef;  grind  fine,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  pepper,  allspice,  cloves  and 
sage.  Heat  all  together  until  so  hot  you  cannot  hold  your  finger  in  it. 
Turn  into  stone  jars  that  have  been  thoroughly  scalded  and  aired,  cover 
with  cheesecloth  and  pour  hot  suet  over  the  cloth.  When  any  is  wanted 
for  use,  take  out  and  make  into  cakes  and  fry. 

Summer  Sausage. — ^Use  any  recipe  you  like  best,  but  use  cloth  casings 
made  from  muslin,  casings  to  have  a  diameter  of  three  to  four  inches, 
and  length  to  fit  a  baking  pan.  Casings  are  easily  made  with  sewing 
machine.  Smoke  the  finished  sausage  to  your  heart's  content.  After 
smoking  let  sausage  dry  sufficiently,  which  takes  four  or  five  weeks,  de- 
pending on  where  hung  to  dry.  The  sausage  should  be  fit  for  eating, 
which  can  readily  be  ascertained  by  cutting  one  through.  When  dry 
enough  melt  a  quantity  of  paraffin — about  one-half  pound  for  a  dozen 
sausages — put  in  baking  pan,  then  place  the  sausages  therein  and  roll 
about  in  the  hot  paraffin,  one  at  a  time.  Hang  up  in  a  dry  place  and 
they  will  keep  nicely  and  indefinitely. 

Virginia  Beef  Sausage. — Mix  two  cupfuls  of  finely-chopped  raw  beef, 
lJ/2  cupful  of  fat  salt  pork  minced  very  fine,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sage,  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  pepper — the  pork  should  furnish  suffi- 
cient salt — and  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  When  thoroughly 
mixed  pack  it  in  small  round  tin  cans  and  set  away  to  become  hard. 
When  wanted  for  breakfast  slice  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick  and 
either  brown  in  the  oven  or  fry  in  a  hot,  well-greased  pan. 

Scrapple,  Philadelphia. — Take  a  cleaned  pig's  head  and  boil  until  the 
flesh  strips  easily  from  the  bones.  Remove  all  the  bones  and  chop  fine. 
Set  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled  aside  until  cold,  take  the 
cake  of  fat  from  the  surface  and  return  the  liquor  to  the  fire.  When  it 
boils,  put  in  the  chopped  meat  and  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  Let 
it  boil  again  and  thicken  with  cornmeal  as  you  would  in  making  ordinary 
cornmeal  mush,  by  letting  it  slip  slowly  through  the  fingers  to  prevent 
lumps.     Cook  an  hour,  stirring  constantly  at  first,  afterward  putting  back 


38  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

on  the  range  in  a  position  to  boil  gently.  When  done,  pour  into  a  long, 
square  pan,  not  too  deep,  and  mold.  In  cold  weather  this  can  be  kept 
several  weeks.     Slice  and  fry  brown  in  butter  or  dripping. 

Souse. — Clean  pig's  ears  and  feet  well;  cover  them  with  cold  water 
slightly  salted  and  boil  until  tender.  Pack  in  stone  jars  while  hot,  and 
cover  while  you  make  ready  for  pickle.  To  half  a  gallon  of  good  cider 
vinegar  allow  half  a  cup  of  white  sugar,  three  dozen  whole  black  pep- 
pers, a  dozen  blades  of  mace  and  a  dozen  cloves.  Boil  this  one  minute, 
taking  care  that  it  really  boils,  and  pour  while  hot  over  the  still  warm 
feet  and  ears.  It  will  be  ready  to  use  in  two  days  and  will  keep  in  a  cool 
place  for  two  months.  If  you  wish  it  for  breakfast,  make  a  batter  of 
one  tggy  one  cup  of  milk,  salt  to  taste,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  with 
enough  flour  for  a  thin  muffin  batter;  dip  each  piece  in  this  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  or  dripping.  Or  dip  each  in  beaten  ^gg,  then  in  pounded 
cracker  before  frying.     Souse  is  also  good  eaten  cold,  especially  the  feet. 

Stew,  Oven. — Two  or  three  pounds  of  beef  shin  are  selected,  the  bone 
being  broken  into  three  or  four  pieces.  After  wiping  with  a  damp  cloth, 
remove  all  the  meat  from  the  bone  and  cut  into  small  pieces  for  serving. 
Scrape  the  marrow  from  the  bone  and  place  in  a  kettle,  and  in  it  brown 
first  the  meat,  then  the  vegetables  cut  in  cubes — half  an  onion  and  one 
carrot.  Now  dredge  well  with  flour  and  salt,  adding  about  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  browned  flour  to  give  color.  Add  one  or  two  whole  cloves,  one- 
half  cup  of  tomato  or  a  little  tomato  catsup,  then  the  pieces  of  bone. 
Cook  in  the  oven  in  a  deep  iron  meat-pan  for  three  or  four  hours,  adding 
potatoes,  cut  in  cubes,  one  hour  before  serving. 

Stew,  Tomato. — Fry  a  tiny  onion,  or  a  slice  or  two  of  ordinary  size, 
in  a  couple  of  tablespoonfuls  of  fat.  Add  two  or  three  slices  of  carrot 
and  let  them  brown.  Then  stir  in  a  cupful  of  canned  tomatoes  and  half  a 
cupful  of  beef  stock  or  gravy.  If  stock  is  used  the  mixture  should  be 
thickened  with  a  little  flour.  Add  also  half  a  bayleaf  and  a  couple  of 
sprays  of  Summer  savory,  and  simmer  the  stew  slowly  for  half  an  hour, 
so  that  it  may  be  permeated  with  the  seasonings.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
add  the  cold  meat  from  a  shank  of  beef,  or  any  "leftover,"  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Simmer  very  slowly  for  five  or  10  minutes  and  serve  hot,  after 
dashing  in  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 

Tough  Meat. — To  soften  a  tough  steak  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar, or  vinegar  and  oil  mixed,  over  it,  and  allow  it  to  stand  12  to  24 
hours,-  turning  occasionally.  A  tough  piece  of  meat  may  be  laid  in  vine- 
gar (not  too  strong)  for  three  or  four  days  in  Summer,  or  twice  as  long  in 
Winter.  Oil  or  spices  may  be  added  to  the  vinegar  if  desired,  this  bath 
being  termed  a  marinade.  Tough  meat  should  receive  long  gentle  cook- 
ing, preferably  in  an  enclosed  vessel  which  will  prevent  evaporation  of 
juices.     Such  beef  should  not  be  treated  like  a  tender  rib  roast;  it  would 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOR.  39 

better  be  braised  (pot  roast)  or  cooked  as  beef  a  la  mode.  The  mar- 
inade will  be  found  desirable  when  the  meat  is  cooked  in  this  way.  If 
stewed,  the  same  system  of  prolonged  gentle  cooking  (preferably  in  an 
earthen   stewpan   or  casserole)    should   be   employed. 

Stuffed  Tenderloin. — Procure  a  good-sized  tenderloin,  slit  one  side 
open  and  lay  within  a  dressing  made  as  follows:  One  cupful  of  dry  grated 
crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of  minced  parseley,  one  large  teaspoonful  of 
mixed  sweet  herbs,  thyme,  Summer  savory,  sweet  marjoram  and  sage, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion  fried  in  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  one- half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  saltspoonful  pepper.  If  this 
amount  of  butter  does  not  make  it  moist  enough  add  a  trifle  more  melted 
butter,  but  no  water.  Stuff  the  tenderloin  and  sew  up  the  opening.  If 
it  is  not  fat  place  two  or  three  slices  of  bacon  over  the  top,  fastening 
with  wooden  toothpicks.  Rub  into  the  meat  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper.  Dust  with  flour  and  roast.  When 
done  remove  the  tenderloin  to  a  heated  platter  and  put  the  roasting  pan 
on  top  of  stove,  adding  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  the  gravy  which  it 
contains.  When  thoroughly  browned  add  a  cupful  of  hot  water,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  gherkins,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  finely- 
chopped  olives. 

Veal  and  Ham  Pie. — A  pound  of  veal  cutlet  cut  in  small  pieces  is 
rolled  in  flour  and  browned  in  hot  bacon  fat.  Cover  with  boiling  water, 
or,  if  possible,  with  stock  made  from  the  trimmings  of  veal  and  seasoned 
with  sweet  herbs,  carrot  and  onion,  and  simmer  for  about  two  hours 
Put  the  pieces  of  veal  in  a  baking  dish.  Have  ready  half  a  cupful  of 
finely  chopped  cooked  ham.  Add  to  it  a  little  of  the  liquid  in  which  the 
veal  was  cooked,  and  pound  smooth  in  a  mortar.  Then  press  through  a 
puree  sieve,  and  add  the  rest  of  the  liquid  with  such  seasoning  as  may 
be  desired.  Pour  this  over  the  meat  in  the  dish,  adding  half  a  pint  of 
oysters  and  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Cover  the  dish  with  a  pastry  or  rich 
biscuit  crust,  and  bake  about  25  minutes. 

Veal,  Paprika  Schnitzel. — Cut  two  pounds  of  thick  veal  steak  into 
small  pieces,  roll  in  seasoned  flour,  fry  brown  in  salt  pork  fat.  Remove 
the  meat  from  the  pan,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  the  remaining 
fat,  brown  lightly  and  pour  in  the  strained  liquid  from  a  pint  can  of  to- 
matoes, or  if  desired  slice  in  a  pint  of  fresh  peeled  tomatoes.  Add  a 
slice  each  of  onion  and  carrot,  three  bay  leaves  and  a  bit  of  mace,  then 
return  the  meat  to  the  sauce,  cover  closely  and  simmer  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  When  done  remove  the  meat,  add  a  little  more  salt  if  neces- 
sary (the  pork  helps  to  season)  a  pinch  of  paprika  or  red  pepper,  and 
strain  on  to  the  platter. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

PASTRY      AKD      PIES. 

When    pieplant    gives    tlie    first    good    mess, 

With   nice   hot   biscuit,    I   confess 
Our  follis  feel  good.     Pop  says  :  "I  guess 

You  ought  to  have  a  bran'  new  dress." 
"And  you  a  coat,"  I  sez,  "no  less  !" 

I  know  our  folks  will  always  bless 
The   day   that  pieplant  gives   first  mess. 

Some  of  our  friends,  who  have  spent  many  years  abroad,  tell  of  a 
Roman  pension  or  boarding-house  whose  proprietor  boasted  that  he  had 
recipes  for  more  than  365  delicious  desserts.  During  the  months  our 
friends  were  at  the  pension  they  never  had  the  same  dessert  twice,  which, 
they  complained,  was  really  pathetic,  for  man}-  of  the  dishes  were  so 
delicious  that  they  longed  for  a  repetition.  We  doubt  whether  anyone 
could  duplicate  that  experience  in  an  American  boarding-house,  where, 
too  often,  pie  is  almost  the  only  form  of  dessert,  except  a  restricted  range 
of  puddings.  The  unwholesome  effect  of  pastry  often  results,  we  believe, 
from  eating  it  as  the  finish  to  a  hearty  meal,  when  the  digestion  is  already 
fully  tasked.  We  are  told  by  those  who  use  it  that  the  oil  pie  crust, 
recipe  for  which  is  given,  is  more  easily  digested  than  that  made  with 
other   shortening. 

Pie  Crust. — For  one  pie  use  one  cupful  sifted  flour,  one-half  cup  of 
shortening,  pinch  of  salt.  It  will  be  much  flakier  if  chopped  together 
with  a  knife,  instead  of  rubbing  in  the  hands.  Stir  in  enough  cold  water 
to  mix  it  so  it  may  be  rolled  out.  Handle  as  little  as  possible,  and  keep 
very  cold.  It  is  improved  by  making  a  day  before  using,  and  storing  in 
the   icebox   or   other  cold  place. 

Cream  Pie  Crust. — If  one  can  use  cream,  delicious  crust  may  be  made. 
Add  baking  powder  and  salt  to  the  flour  and  mix  stiff  with  cream  that  is 
not  too  heavy.  The  crust  is  tender,  browns  quickly  and  has  a  very  sweet, 
agreeable   flavor. 

Oil  Pie  Crust. — For  this  either  olive  or  refined  cotton-seed  oil  may 
be  used.  For  one  pie  take  one  cup  flour,  add  pinch  of  salt,  mix  and  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  oil;  rub  well  together  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls 
cold  water.     Handle  dough  as  little  as  possible  and  roll  thin. 

Puff  Paste. — Use  equal  weights  of  flour  and  butter;  by  measure,  one 
pint  of  flour  and  one  cup  of  butter.  Wash  the  butter  in  cold  water 
until  all  the  salt  is  out;  the  hands  should  first  be  washed  in  hot,  then 
cold   water,    to   prevent   the   butter    from    sticking.      When    washed    until 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  41 

smooth  and  waxy  divide  butter  into  four  parts,  pat  until  thin,  wrap  in 
a  napkin  and  place  upon  ice.  Mix  a  little  salt  with  the  flour,  mix  in 
about  one-balf  cup  of  ice  water,  stirring  it  in  with  a  knife,  and  cut 
until  it  can  be  taken  up  clean  from  the  bowl.  Put  on  a  well-floured 
board,  roll  until  one-half  inch  thick.  Roll  one  portion  of  the  butter  thin, 
fold  it  up  inside  the  paste,  pat  and  roll  out  again.  Repeat  this  process 
with  the  rest  of  the  butter.  When  putting  in  the  butter,  fold  the  sides 
of  the  paste  over  it  toward  the  middle,  then  the  ends  over,  and  double; 
then  roll.  This  process  should  continue  until  no  streaks  of  fat  are  shown. 
Whenever  the  butter  becomes  soft,  it  should  be  chilled,  and  when  finished 
the  paste  should  be  wrapped  in  a  napkin,  and  kept  in  the  refrigerator. 
This  is  the  paste  used  for  patty  cases,  and  similar  delicate  pastry.  It 
requires  a  "knack''  as  well  as  a  recipe  to  get  good  results. 

Crust  for  Raised  Pies. — This  is  the  crust  used  by  English  house- 
keepers for  pork  and  other  meat  pies,  in  which  the  crust  is  patted  and 
shaped  into  a  deep  dish  shape,  which  is  filled  with  meat  and  then  covered 
with  a  top  crust.  The  crust  is  hard  and  stiff  when  cold,  but  softens 
when  warm.  Put  one  cupful  of  water  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  pound  of 
lard,  put  on  stove  to  melt,  and  allow  it  to  come  to  boiling  point,  stirring 
well;  sift  about  three  pounds  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  make  a  hole  in  the 
middle,  and  stir  in  the  hot  liquid,  mixing  with  a  spoon  until  it  is  cool 
enough  to  knead  with  the  hands.  It  may  require  the  addition  of  more 
flour,  as  it  should  be  very  stiff.  To  make  a  pork  pie,  this  crust  should 
be  molded  with  the  hands  into  a  dish  shape  four  or  five  inches  deep; 
an  oval  four  or  five  by  six  inches  is  a  convenient  size.  Good,  tender, 
fresh  roasting  pork  is  cut  into  half-inch  pieces,  and  well  seasoned;  the 
pie  is  filled  and  covered,  after  a  small  amount  of  water  is  sprinkled  over, 
and  then  the  pie  is  baked  for  about  ly^  hour,  in  a  steady  oven.  It  is 
always  served  cold.  Game  birds  or  pigeons  make  excellent  raised  pie 
also.  To  give  a  shining  yellow  appearance  to  the  pastry,  brush  it  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten  up  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
about  10  minutes  before  it  is  taken  out  of  the  oven. 

Almond  Bars. — Roll  puff  paste  into  thin  narrow  strips.  Beat  one 
egg  white  slightly  and  mix  it  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar 
and  one  cupful  of  finely-chopped  almonds.  Spread  this  mixture  over  the 
strips  of  paste  and  brown  them  in  the  oven.  Sometimes  the  almonds  ar« 
rolled  into  the  paste.  Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  with 
the  same  amount  of  chopped  almonds  and  sprinkle  over  the  paste  when 
first  rolled  out.  Fold  and  roll  again,  then  repeat  the  process.  Finally  cut 
into  long  sticks,  brush  with  white  of  an  egg  and  brown  in  the  oven.  One 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  almonds,  when  th« 
result  will  be  cinnamon  bars. 


42  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Apple  Pie. — This  is  how  a  Michigan  housekeeper  makes  it:  The  under 
crust  was  first  brushed  over  lightly  with  white  of  an  tgg  and  allowed  to 
stand  while  the  rest  of  the  work  went  on;  this  to  keep  the  juices  from 
soaking  into  the  crust  before  baking.  Next  a  half -cupful  of  sugar  was 
put  in,  along  with  a  half  to  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  according  to  the 
degree  of  juiciness  of  the  apples,  and  a  generous  pinch  of  cinnamon  or 
allspice  according  to  choice.  These  were  rubbed  smoothly  together  to 
insure  a  jelly-like  consistency  of  the  finished  pie,  without  the  unpalatable 
doughy  lumps.  The  fruit  is  then  added,  the  remainder  of  the  sugar 
poured  over  (a  cupful  in  all  for  very  sour  apples),  the  top  dotted  thickly 
with  butter,  and  unless  the  apples  are  very  juicy  a  dessertspoonful  of 
water  added.  The  edge  of  the  under  crust  is  now  moistened  with  water, 
the  top  applied  and  the  two  pinched  neatly  together;  the  whole  brushed 
over  with  rich  milk  to  insure  an  even  golden-brownness,  and  a  tiny  funnel 
made  of  writing  paper  twisted  and  pinned  into  shape  inserted  in  the  air 
hole  cut  in  the  top.  These  details  observed  you  may  now  put  your  pie 
into  the  oven  with  a  certainty  that  it  will  come  out  a  thing  of  beauty, 
with  none  of  its  savory  juices  burning  to  a  crisp  in  the  bottom  of 
the  oven.  For  very  young  apples,  however,  she  always  used  instead  of 
the  water,  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  spiced  vinegar  (left  over  from 
any  spiced  sweet  pickle)  with  a  little  more  flour.  Or  if  apples  had  been 
kept  some  time  and  were  shriveled  and  insipid,  she  found  the  same  treat- 
ment a  vast  improvement.  Lacking  the  spiced  vinegar  she  sometimes  used 
lemon  juice  with  an  additional  sprinkling  of  sugar  and  spices.  Other  fruit 
pies  were  made  in  a  similar  manner,  always  taking  into  consideration  the 
qualities  of  the  fruit  as  to  acidity  and  juiciness.  For  canned  fruits 
already  sweetened,  such  as  huckleberries,  elderberries  and  the  like,  which 
were  very  juicy  and  required  no  extra  sweetening,  she  usually  rubbed  the 
flour  (in  same  proportion  of  a  spoonful  to  a  pie)  in  a  bit  of  the  juice, 
and  added  it  with  whatever  spices  were  necessary  to  the  rest  of  the  fruit, 
and  set  it  over  the  fire  until  the  flour  was  cooked,  adding  a  little  butter. 
When  cold  the  mixture  was  filled  into  the  prepared  paste,  egg-brushed 
as  before.  For  custard  or  pumpkin  she  usually  prepared  the  paste  by 
setting  the  pan  on  top  of  the  stove  until  the  crust  was  nearly  cooked 
through,  then  adding  the  custard  and  putting  it  at  once  into  a  hot  oven. 
When  sweet  cider  is  at  hand,  it  may  be  used  to  give  additional  flavor  to 
an  apple  pie.  Warm  half  a  cupful  of  cider  and,  10  minutes  before  the 
pie  is  taken  from  the  oven,  pour  the  cider  into  it  through  the  hole  in  the 
center  of  top  crust,  using  a  little  funnel  of  stiff  paper  to  prevent  splashing. 

Appleless  Apple  Pie. — Soak  two  large  soda  crackers  in  a  large  cup  of 
boiling  water.  Add  small  piece  butter.  When  cool  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  vinegar,  one  cup  sugar,  a  few  raisins  and  a  little  nutmeg.    Bake  with 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  43 

two  crusts  as  you  do  the  real  apple  pie.  Another  appleless  apple  pie  is 
made  from  pumpkins  as  follows:  Procure  a  good  sound  pumpkin  (or 
squash),  wash,  cut  a  round  of  same,  as  deep  as  an  ordinary  apple  is,  from 
stem  to  blossom  end;  peel,  cut  down  crosswise  in  slices  about  an  eighth 
of  an  inch  thick;  put  in  water  enough  to  cover,  and  stew  slowly  until 
tender,  but  not  mushy.  Lift  carefully  from  the  water,  let  cool.  Prepare 
crust  as  for  apple  pie,  line  your  tins  with  the  crust,  place  your  slices  of 
pumpkin  just  as  you  would  slices  of  apple;  sprinkle  over  them  a  little 
flour — not  over  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  pure 
cider  vinegar  to  each  pie,  a  few  lumps  of  butter,  finish  with  a  top  crust. 
Bake  to  a  rich  brown  color  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Vermont  Blackberry  Pie. — Line  a  deep  dripping  pan  with  pastry,  cover 
the  bottom  with  a  generous  layer  of  blackberries,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cover  with  a  crust.  Bake,  then  add  another  layer  of  blackberries  and 
sugar,  cover  with  a  top  crust,  and  then  bake  again.  This  is  recommended 
as  highly  delicious,  either  hot  or  cold. 

Buttermilk  Pie.— Beat  together  a  heaping  cupful  of  sugar  and  four 
eggs;  add  half  a  cupful  of  butter;  beat  thoroughly  and  add  1^  pint  of 
fresh  buttermilk;  line  pie  tins  with  crust;  slice  an  apple  thin  and  lay 
in  each  pie;  fill  crust  with  the  mixture  and  bake  with  one  crust. 

Butterscotch  Pie. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  butter  size  of 
walnut,  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  cup  cream,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream 
the  butter,  sugar  and  flour  together,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  cream  and 
flavoring.  Pour  this  into  a  good  baked  pie  crust  and  return  to  the  oven. 
When  it  has  thickened  spread  over  it  the  whites  beaten  very  stiffs,  with 
two  level  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Have  the  oven  quite  cool  while  the 
meringue  is  browning. 

Carrot  Pie. — Scrape  the  skin  off  the  carrots,  boil  them  soft  and  strain 
them  through  a  sieve.  To  a  pint  of  the  strained  pulp  put  three  pints  of 
milk,  six  beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  whole  one.  Sweeten  it  to  your 
taste,  and  bake  it  in  deep  pie  plates  without  an  upper  crust. 

Cheese  Cakes. — This  is  a  rich  English  dainty.  Take  four  ounces  of 
butter,  and  cream  it  in  a  warm  pan;  add  four  ounces  of  sugar,  beat  well; 
add  the  yolk  of  one  e^g,  beat  again,  then  add  one  whole  tgg;  beat  all 
well  together,  and  mix  in  four  ounces  of  currants.  Line  patty  pans 
with  paste,  fill  with  the  mixture,  shake  a  little  sugar  over  the  top,  and  bake. 

Curd  Cheese  Cakes. — Add  one  tgg  to  one  cupful  of  fresh  curd;  beat 
smooth,  and  beat  in  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  any  other  spice,  and  use  as 
filling  for  a  pie  without  top  crust.  A  richer  curd  cheese  cake  is  made 
by  using  the  recipe  given  for  ordinary  cheese  cakes,  and  beating  the  curd 
into  it  before  the  currants  are  added. 


44  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Chocolate  Pie. — Line  a  deep  pie  pan  with  rich  pie  crust  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Grate  one-half  teacupful  of  chocolate  and  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  one  cupful  of  hot  water,  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg,  one  table- 
spoonful  vanilla,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  the  beaten  yolk  of  two  eggs  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  water ;  mix  well ; 
cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  into  the  pie  shell  and  let  cool. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar,  spread  on  top  of  pie  and  slightly  brown  in  oven. 

Cider  Jelly  Pie. — This  is  a  tested  old-fashioned  recipe.  A  half  pint  of 
boiled  cider,  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch.  Stir  the  cornstarch  into  the  cider,  add  the 
other  ingredients  and  cook  for  10  minutes.  Fill  into  a  pastry-lined  pie 
tin  and  cover  with  an  upper  crust. 

Cream  Pie. — Mix  thoroughly  two  cups  of  flour  and  five  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  large  tgg,  which 
has  been  thoroughly  beaten  together  previously.  Roll  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick,  line  two  pie  tins,  prick  with  a  folk  and  bake  a  pale  brown,  then 
fill  with  this  cream:  Two  cups  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  yolks  of  five  eggs.  Cook  together  like  cus- 
tard, and  when  cold  cover  with  meringue  made  of  whites  of  five  eggs  and 
five  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 

New  England  Cream  Tart  Pie. — Select  firm  Esopus  apples  and  make 
as  dry  an  apple  sauce  as  possible,  sweetened  slightly  and  strained.  For 
a  large-sized  pie  use  one  pint  of  apple,  one  pint  of  thick  cream,  yolks  of 
two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  one-half  of  a  nutmeg.  An  under  crust  only 
is  used,  and  this  may  be  baked  the  day  before.  Fill  and  bake  about  one- 
half  hour.  Use  the  whites  of  two  eggs  for  the  meringue  and  brown  in 
the  oven.  Greenings  are  good  for  this  pie  when  Esopus  is  not  at  hand, 
but  apples  of  low  quality  should  not  be  used  for  it. 

Crumb  Pie. — Soak  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs  in  milk.  Beat  three  eggs; 
add  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Line  two  pie  plates  with  crust  and  strew  over 
enough  raisins  to  cover  bottom.  Add  the  bread  crumbs  to  tgg  and  milk, 
sifting  in  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  pour  over  the  raisins  and  bake  about  30 
minutes. 

Date  Pie. — For  one  pie  take  one  heaping  cupful  of  pastry  flour,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  mix  to  the  right  consistency  with  sweet  cream.  The 
crust  will  be  much  nicer  if  allowed  to  get  very  cold  before  using.  Filling 
— To  a  cupful  of  seeded  dates  add  a  cupful  of  water,  cook  over  hot  water 
about  20  minutes,  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Beat  an  tgg  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  until  light;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  the 
date  paste  and  gradually  a  cupful  of  scalded  milk.  Pour  into  a  half 
baked  shell  and  finish  baking  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  knife  blade 
can  penetrate  it  and  come  out  clean. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  45 

Delectable  Tarts. — One  cup  of  slightly  sour  cream,  one  cup  of  seeded 
and  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  tgg  with  a  delicate  flavor- 
ing of  spices.  Beat  the  tgg  light,  add  the  cream  and  sugar;  the  raisins 
well  floured  and  spices.     Bake  in  tart  or  patty  pans  with  a  single  crust. 

Elderberry  Pie. — Line  a  pie  dish  with  paste,  upon  which  sprinkle  a 
scant  tablespoonful  of  flour;  to  this  add  a  half  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half 
teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  rubbing  all  together  evenly. 
Upon  this  pour  the  berries,  a  pint  more  or  less  according  to  the  size  of 
your  pie  dish;  pour  over  another  half  cup  of  sugar,  dot  generously  with 
butter,  adding  last  one  large  tablespoonful  of  good  vinegar.  Apply  top 
crust  quickly  and  bake. 

Grape  Cobbler. — This  is  best  made  from  very  ripe  black  grapes.  Wash 
them  twice — on  the  bunches  and  after  picking.  Line  a  deep  pie  dish  with 
half-inch  rich  crust,  put  in  the  grapes  and  all  the  sugar  that  will  lie 
between  them,  heaping  the  fruit  a  little  in  the  middle.  Put  on  the  top 
crust,  cut  cross  slits  in  the  middle  and  fold  back  the  corners  to  leave 
an  open  square.  Set  the  dish  in  a  quick  oven  and  while  the  pie  bakes 
make  a  sauce,  using  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  table- 
spoon boiling  water.  Stir  well  over  hot  water  and  flavor  with  lemon 
juice,  or  grated  nutmeg,  according  to  taste.  When  the  pie  is  nearly  done 
take  it  out,  pour  in  the  sauce  through  the  opening  in  the  crust,  return 
it  to  the  oven.     Be  careful  not  to  overbake,  but  keep  it  hot  until  served. 

Grape  Roll. — Allow  half  the  weight  of  the  grapes  in  sugar  and  only 
water  enough  to  keep  from  burning;  seed  the  grapes;  allow  one  pint  of 
cooked  grapes  for  the  roll.  To  make  the  dough  cream  one-half  teacupful 
of  butter  with  one  pint  of  sifted  flour;  add  one  teacupful  of  milk,  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder;  roll  out  on  the  board  in  two  long  ovals,  roll  up  and  pinch  the 
ends,  lay  in  a  buttered  dish,  set  the  dish  to  bake  and  twice  pour  over 
them  a  sauce  of  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
mixed  together,  to  which  is  added  one-half  teacupful  of  boiling  water 
(for  one  basting).  Serve  the  rolls  with  the  same  kind  of  sauce  made 
richer  and  flavored  with  nutmeg. 

Green  Apple  Slump. — Stew  and  strain  a  quart  of  green  apples  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  Make  a  biscuit  crust  with  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  moisten  with  sweet  milk  to  a  dough. 
Roll  out  one  inch  thick.  Put  the  prepared  hot  sauce  in  a  thick-bottomed 
saucepan,  fit  over  it  the  crust  and  cover  closely,  first  buttering  the  inside 
of  the  cover.  Place  where  the  sauce  will  simmer  slowly  but  steadily 
for  an  hour.  In  serving  put  the  crust  on  the  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over 
it  aad  serve  with  creasi. 


40  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Hasty  Pie. — Place  in  a  deep  baking  pan  or  dish  any  fresh  or  canned 
fruits  to  the  depth  of  two  or  three  inches.  Beat  together  one  egg,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  cupful  sweet  milk  and  one  cupful  of 
flour  in  which  has  been  sifted  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Pour 
this  over-  fruit  and  bake  until  crust  is  well  done.  Eat  with  sweetened 
cream  or  any  pudding  sauce.  Use  but  little  syrup  with  fruit.  The  same 
recipe  for  batter  makes  good  muffins. 

Jam  Dumplings. — To  one  quart  of  sifted  flour  add  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  sift  several  times.  Beat  two  eggs  light  and  add 
to  a  cup  of  milk;  stir  into  the  flour,  adding  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
butter  melted;  add  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough;  roll  out,  cut  in 
squares,  put  a  large  spoonful  of  jam  in  center  of  each  square,  pinch  the 
edges  together,  place  them  in  a  baking  pan  and  bake  them  for  25  minutes; 
serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

Lady  Lufkins. — Make  a  very  rich,  flaky  pie  crust,  roll  out  very  thin, 
cut  into  strips  an  inch  wide,  and  wind  each  strip  around  a  tube  of  metal 
or  heavy  manilla  paper  about  two  inches  wide;  bake  until  crisp  and  brown. 
This  is  the  way  in  which  bakers  make  their  cream  rolls.  When  cold,  fill 
each  roll  with  marmalade  in  the  center  and  cream  at  the  ends. 

Lemon  Meringue. — Stir  together  the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  water  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  cornstarch,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Bake  in  one  crust  and 
make  a  meringue  of  the  four  whites  for  the  top,  adding  a  little  powdered 
sugar  after  having  been  stiffly  beaten.  If  desired  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
may  be  included  in  the  filling,  and  two  crusts  used. 

Lemon  Mince  Pie. — Stir  together  two  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  thor- 
oughly cooked  with  a  cupful  of  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
molasses,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  a  little  citron,  the  juice  of  two 
lemons,  and  the  grated  rind  of  one.  Bake  in  two  crusts.  This  makes 
several  pies. 

Delicious  Lemon  Pie. — Beat  one  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  flour, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  to  a  cream.  Add 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  then  one  cup  of  milk,  gradually. 
Then  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.     Bake  in  one  crust. 

Maple  Custard  Pie. — Line  a  pie  pan  with  any  good  paste.  For  the 
filling  beat  together  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  pint  of  cream;  add 
one-third  cup  maple  sugar  shaved  fine.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.     Delicious. 

Marlborough  Pie. — Line  a  pie  plate  with  very  thin  puff  paste.  Take 
half  cup  of  mixed  orange,  lemon  and  citron  peel.  Strew  these  in  the 
bottom  of  the  dish.    Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  a  cup  of  butter  aod 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  47 

scant  cup  of  sugar.  Heat  in  a  double  boiler  until  melted;  then  flavor  with 
orange  juice  and  little  grated  peel.  Pour  into  the  dish  and  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

Milk  Pie. — Line  a  pan  eight  inches  in  diameter  with  good  paste,  put 
dots  of  butter  over  the  bottom  until  you  have  used  about  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  dredge  over  alternately  flour  to  the  amount  of  one-fourth  meas- 
uring cup  and  sugar  to  the  amount  of  one-half  cup,  then  sprinkle  evenly 
over  the  top  one  level  dessertspoon  of  cinnamon  and  pour  in  carefully, 
so  as  not  to  disturb  the  cinnamon,  three-fourths  cup  milk  and  bake  until 
crust  is  brown. 

Maryland  Mincemeat. — Two  pounds  of  lean  beef;  cook,  let  get  cold, 
and  pass  through  meat  grinder;  mix  thoroughly  with  one  pint  of  finely- 
minced  suet,  two  quarts  of  chopped,  high-flavored  apples,  one  pint  of 
stoned  raisins,  a  scant  pint  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  currants,  one-third 
pound  of  citron  shaved  in  fine  shreds, 'a  cupful  of  molasses  (which  is 
omitted  if  preferred,  sugar  taking  its  place),  one  tablespoonful  each  of 
ground  mace  and  allspice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  cloves,  two  grated  nutmegs,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  juice  and  rind  of  one  and  a  half  lemon,  same  of  sour  orange, 
one-half  cupful  each  of  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel.  Moisten  with 
unfermented  grape  juice,  sweet  cider,  peach  or  plum  syrup.  The  syrup 
from  sweet  pickles  is  a  great  improvement.     Pack  solid  in  airtight  jars. 

Green  Tomato  Mincemeat.  Chop  fine  four  quarts  of  green  tomatoes, 
drain  off  all  juice,  cover  with  cold  water,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  scald 
for  30  minutes,  then  drain  well.  Add  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one 
pound  of  seeded  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  chopped  citron,  one  large 
half  cupful  of  finely-chopped  suet,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one-half 
cupful  of  strong  cider  vinegar.  Stir  well  together  and  cook  till  thick. 
When  cold  add  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cinnamon  and  cloves  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  thoroughly  and  keep  (while  it 
lasts)    in  a  stone  jar. 

Mock  Mince  Pie  with  Cranberries. — One  cupful  bread  crumbs,  one 
cupful  raisins,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  cranberries  cut  in  halves,  one 
level  saltspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg,  one  cup- 
ful hot  water,  one-half  cup  vinegar  and  butter  size  of  a  large  English 
walnut.  Turn  into  a  pie  tin  lined  with  flaky  paste,  place  the  top  crust 
and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Mock  Pumpkin  Pie. — Grate  sweet  apples,  add  milk,  sugar,  ginger  and 
cinnamon,  and  one  egg  for  each  pie.  Make  the  filling  of  the  same  con- 
sistency as  pumpkin,  and  bake  just  like  it. 

Peach  Turnovers. — One  pint  of  dried  peaches  stewed  and  sweetened 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar;   flavor  with  nutmeg  to  taste. 


48  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK, 

Make  a  stiff  crust,  not  as  short  as  for  other  pies.  Roll  out  pieces  the 
size  of  a  saucer.  Cover  one-half  of  the  crust  one-half  inch  deep  with 
the  stewed  fruit.  Fold  over,  pinch  the  edges  together  and  prick  with  a 
silver  fork.  Fry  like  doughnuts,  preferably  in  cooking  oil;  powder  with 
sugar  and  serve  with  maple  syrup. 

Pear  Puffs. — Peel  good  pears,  cut  out  the  blossom  end,  but  leave  the 
stem;  simmer  the  pears  until  tender  in  a  weak  syrup  flavored  with 
lemon,  then  drain,  and  allow  them  to  cool.  Make  a  good,  rich  pie  crust, 
roll  out  thin,  cut  into  triangular  pieces,  and  cover  each  pear,  pinching  the 
crust  neatly  together,  but  leaving  the  stem  protruding.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  to  a  pale  brown,  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

Prune  Pie. — Stew  half  pound  of  prunes  as  for  sauce.  When  quite  soft 
remove  the  stones,  sweeten,  beat  up  and  gradually  fold  in  the  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Line  deep  pie  tins  with  crust  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Then 
turn  in  the  prune  mixture;  spread  smoothly  on  top  and  pour  over  this 
a  layer  of  well-sweetened  and  well-flavored  apple  sauce.  Place  in  oven 
and  bake  twenty  minutes  longer.     Eat  hot  or  cold. 

Prune  Pie  No.  2. — One  cupful  of  stewed  and  stoned  prunes,  chopped 
fine;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  syrup  in  which  they  were  stewed,  two 
eggs,  yolks  and  white  beaten  separately,  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  sugar, 
salt  and  flavoring  to  taste.  The  prunes  should  be  soaked  an  hour  or  two 
in  warm  water  before  stewing,  then  cooked  slowly  several  hours,  putting 
them  on  with  cold  water  enough  nearly  to  cover  them  and  enough  sugar 
to  make  a  rich  syrup.     Bake  without  upper  crust. 

Prune  Pie  No.  3. — Cover  a  pie  tin  with  rich  crust,  and  then  half  fill 
with  a  layer  of  stewed  prunes  and  their  juice,  the  stones  having  been 
removed.  Over  the  prunes  pour  a  custard,  made  by  beating  up  one  egg 
and  a  teacupful  of  milk,  a  little  nutmeg  being  grated  over  the  top.  The 
pie  is  baked  until  the  custard  is  set.  Little  patty  pans  lined  with  pie  crust 
and  filled  with  the  same  material,  are  prune  fanchonettes. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — This  recipe  differs  decidedly  from  those  ordinarily  used 
and  is  very  good.  Cut  the  pumpkin  without  paring,  bake  it,  skin  side 
down,  until  tender,  and  then  scoop  out  the  pulp  and  sift  it.  For  one 
pie  allow  IJ^  cupful  of  pumpkin,  one  cupful  of  boiling  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  same  amount  of  ginger;  add  one  egg, 
beaten  separately.     Half  bake  the  crust,  fill  with  the  pumpkin  and  bake. 

Pumpkin  Pie  Without  Eggs. — Let  the  pumpjcin  be  of  the  pie  variety, 
small,  close-grained,  and  sweet.  Steam  it  until  tender,  then  press  through 
a  colander.  To  a  pint  of  sifted  pumpkin  add  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  two 
level  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  cupful  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  ginger  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.     This  is  sufficient  for  two  pies.     Fill  the  crusts,  sift  on  i 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  49 

little  sugar  and  a  dust  of  nutmeg,  and  bake.  If  the  pumpkin  is  not  up  to 
the  standard,  one  tgg  may  be  added,  but  not  as  a  substitute  for  the  flour, 
which  gives  body  and  smoothness  to  the  filling. 

Raisin  Pie. — One  cupful  of  nice  raisins;  wash  quickly,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  cook  until  tender;  remove  seeds;  moisten  a  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs  with  the  water,  add  one-fourth  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg  (beaten), 
one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and  the  raisins,  cut  in  two  or  three  pieces 
each;  an  upper  and  lower  crust  of  tender  pastry  and  a  satisfactory  bake 
make  a  most  delicious  pie. 

Raisin  Pie  No.  2. — Boil  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins  in  sufficient  water 
to  cover  for  one  hour.  Then  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch.  Bake  in  two  crusts.  This  makes  filling  for  two 
pies.  A  second  way  of  making  a  pie  is  to  cook  one  cupful  of  raisins  in 
one  cupful  of  water  until  they  are  softened,  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  one  lemon,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  sifting  of  cinnamon  and  sufficient 
powdered  cracks  crumbs  to  thicken.     Bake  in  two  crusts. 

Raisin  Turnovers. — One  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
or  a  few  pieces  of  candied  lemon  or  orange  peel,  and  a  small  piece  of 
preserved  citron,  chop  all  together  finely,  stir  into  this  one  beaten  egg, 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Roll  out  puff  paste  thinly,  and  cut  *it  in 
circles,  lay  them  on  a  plate,  fill  with  the  mixture,  then  cover  and  press 
the  edges  firmly  together.  Bake  the  same  length  of  time  as  you  would 
a  pie. 

Raspberry  Cream  Tart. — Line  a  pie  plate  with  good  paste,  and  fill  with 
red  raspberries,  sweetened  with  powdered  sugar.  Cover  with  paste,  but 
do  not  pinch  it  down  at  the  edges.  When  it  is  done,  lift  the  top  crust, 
which  is  thicker  than  usual,  and  pour  upon  the  fruit  a  cream  made  as 
follows :  One  small  cup  of  rich  milk,  heated  to  boiling  point ;  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  light  and  stirred  into  the  boiling  milk;  one  tablespoonful 
of  white  sugar;  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  wetted  with  cold 
milk.  Boil  three  minutes,  then  let  the  cream  get  perfectly  cold.  Remove 
the  top  crust,  pour  the  cream  over  the  fruit,  replace  the  crust,  and  set 
the  pie  away  to  cool.  This  recipe  is  given  by  Marion  Harland;  our  home 
recipe  for  fruit  cream  pic  calls  for  a  simple  custard,  using  both  white  and 
yolk  of  one  &gg,  which  is  poured  over  the  fruit  as  above.  Strawberry 
cream  pie  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Rhubarb  Pie. — Cut  in  rather  coarse  pieces  enough  rhubarb  to  fill  a 
large  cup.  Beat  one  egg  thoroughly,  adding  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  add 
the  rhubarb,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  two  soda  crackers  rolled  fine.  Mix 
thoroughly,  then  turn  into  a  pie  tin  lined  with  pastry.  Put  a  few  bits  of 
butter  over  it  here  and  there,  add  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  and  bake  as  a 


50  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

tart  pie,  bands  of  pastry  laid  over  the  top  before  baking.     This  quantity 
makes  one  pie — a  small  deep  one,  or  a  thin  large  one. 

Rhubarb  Cream  Pie. — One  cupful  of  rhubarb  chopped  fine  or  grated, 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  grating  of  nutmeg  or  lemon  peel. 
Moisten  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water; 
then  fill  the  cup  up  with  boiling  water,  stirring  until  clear.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  until  light,  and  add  them  with  the  cornstarch  to  the 
other  materials.  Line  a  pie  plate  with  good  light  paste,  fill  with  the 
mixture  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  custard  is  set.  When 
done  and  cooled,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  with  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  half  a  cupful  of  confectioner's  sugar.  Brown  delicately  in 
the  oven. 

Fresh  Strawberry  Pie. — Bake  an  empty  bottom  crust,  making  it  extra 
nice;  prick  holes  all  over  the  bottom  and  sides,  to  prevent  its  getting 
out  of  shape.  As  soon  as  baked  sprinkle  the  inside  with  sugar  and  fill 
with  ripe  berries;  also  well  dredge  with  sugar.-  Cover  with  sweetened 
whipped  cream  and  then  cover  all  with  a  meringue  of  the  frothed  whites 
of  two  eggs  mixed  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  dash  of 
lemon  juice.  Invert  a  plate  in  the  oven  and  place  the  pie  plate  on  top 
of  it  and  brown.  If  the  work  is  very  carefully  done  the  berries  will  not 
be  even  heated,  and  the  result  will  be  delicious.  The  pie  should  be 
thoroughly  chilled  before  serving. 

Strawberry  Pie  No.  2. — Line  a  pie  tin  with  rich  crust  shortened  with 
butter,  no  baking  powder  being  used.  Let  it  cool,  then  fill  with  fresh 
strawberries,  hulled  and  washed,  and  mixed  with  sugar.  Cover  with 
whipped  cream   and  serve. 

Strawberry  Pie  No,  3. — Line  a  pie  plate  with  good  short  crust,  fill 
with  ripe  whole  berries,  liberally  sugared,  and  then  cover  with  a  lattice 
formed  of  criss-cross  strips  of  crust.  By  the  time  the  crust  is  browned 
the  berries  are  cooked  in  their  own  rich  juice,  and  the  pie  is  much 
nicer  than  v/ith  an  ordinary  double  crust. 

Strawberry  Cream  Pie. — After  picking  over  the  berries  carefully, 
arrange  them  in  layers  in  a  deep  pie  plate,  sprinkling  sugar  thickly 
between  each  layer,  having  first  lined  the  dish  with  your  best  pastry. 
Cover  with  a  crust  with  a  slit  in  the  top  and  bake.  When  the  pie  is 
baked,  pour  into  the  slit  in  the  top  of  the  pie  the  following  cream  mix- 
ture: Take  a  small  cupful  of  rich  cream,  heat  until  nearly  boiling,  then 
stir  into  it  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  lightly  to  a  froth,  also  a  table- 
spoonful of  granulated  or  powdered  sugar;  boil  all  together  a  few 
moments.  When  cool,  pour  it  into  the  pie  through  the  slit  in  the  crust 
Serve  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  on  top. 


CHAPTER  V. 

PUDDINGS,      HOT     AND      COLD. 

The   proof  of  the  pudding  is  not  in  the  eating, 
Never  mind  what  the  old  sayings  state  ; 

The  compliment  setting  the  cook's  heart  a'beating 
Is  the  call  for   a   big  second   plate. 

As  a  rule  farm  housekeepers  are  admirably  situated  for  making 
delicious  puddings,  many  of  which  are  more  wholesome  than  pastry. 
The  recipes  given  below  include  considerable  variety,  and  will  be  found 
suggestive,  as  many  may  be  altered  to  suit  material  on  hand.  We  were 
obliged  to  omit  a  number  of  good  ones,  owing  to  lack  of  space. 

Apricot  Pudding. — This  may  be  made  from  evaporated  apricots,  care- 
fully soaked  and  stewed,  instead  of  the  canned  fruit.  Butter  a  shallow 
pudding  dish  and  sprinkle  on  the  surface  a  layer  of  soft  bread  crumbs. 
Drain  the  syrup  from  a  can  of  apricots  and  arrange  a  layer  of  fruit  in 
the  dish.  Fill  the  cavities  with  sugar  and  a  dot  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
pea  on  each.  Cover  each  piece  of  fruit  with  another  half  to  simulate  the 
whole  fruit,  then  fill  the  interstices  with  soft  bread  crumbs.  Mix  one  pint 
of  milk,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  one-quarter  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  three  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  and  pour  this  over  the  fruit.  Lift 
the  fruit  a  little  so  the  custard  may  reach  every  part  of  the  bread.  Bake 
it  about  half  an  hour.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  till  stiff;  add  three 
heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice.  When  the  pudding  is  done  and  cooked  somewhat  spread 
the  meringue  over  the  top  and  brown  it  slightly.    Serve  hot  without  sauce. 

Batter  Pudding. — This  is  an  old-fashioned  recipe,  which  can  be 
depended  upon.  Measure  12  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  after  sifting;  then 
sift  again  with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  small  one  of  salt. 
Beat  four  eggs,  without  separating,  until  very  light  and  before  mixing 
them  to  a  batter  with  a  quart  of  milk,  butter  a  three-pint  oval  baking 
dish  and  see  that  the  oven  is  of  a  steady  heat,  as  if  for  baking  bread. 
Now  make  a  smooth  batter  with  the  milk  and  flour,  stirring  in  the  eggs 
last,  and  bake  about  one  hour  The  pudding  will  rise  with  a  brown  crust 
on  top,  and,  by  the  slow  bakmg,  the  sides  and  bottom  will  also  be  crisp 
and  brown,  while  the  interior  will  be  tender  and  light.  Serve  directly 
from  the  oven,  with  fruit  juice  slightly  thickened  for  sauce.  No  other 
sauce  will  take  the  place  of  this.  When  the  supply  of  extra  juice  canned 
for  this  very  purpose  is  exhausted,  evaporated  cherries  soaked  over  night 
and  well  simmered  in  the  same  water  is  an  excellent  substitute 


52  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK, 

Black  Pudding. — One  coffeecup  black  molasses,  one  coffeecup  sour 
cream;  add  one  dessertspoon  of  soda  and  beat  hard  and  then  add  one 
cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  seeded  raisins,  a  few  almonds  (about  a  table- 
spoonful),  do  not  blanch  them,  as  they  will  have  a  better  flavor,  three 
(or  more  if  liked)  chopped  figs,  two  apples,  and  a  piece  of  citron 
chopped.  Three  cups  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  grat- 
ing of  one-half  nutmeg.  Beat  well.  Take  four  baking  powder  cans 
(pound  size),  rub  with  melted  butter  and  pour  the  batter  into  them  and 
steam  hard  three  hours.  Stand  in  oven  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  to  dry  off. 
When  you  wish  to  use  steam  half  an  hour.  A  quantity  may  be  made  at 
one  time,  as  these  puddings  will  keep  six  months. 

Blackberry  Pudding. — Beat  one-third  of  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream. 
Add  gradually  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Sift  together  two  cups  of  previously  sifted  flour,  four  level  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  this  to  the 
creamed  butter,  sugar,  and  eggs.  Put  in  half  of  the  flour  mixture,  mix, 
and  then  put  in  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  Mix  in  the  rest  of  the 
flour,  etc.  Beat  thoroughly  and  last  of  all  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  the  two  eggs.  Sprinkle  a  cupful  of  blackberries  with  a  little  flour 
and  add  them  to  the  batter  as  it  is  dropped  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  into  the 
mold,  which  should  be  rubbed  with  unsalted  butter.  Steam  an  hour  and 
a  half,  or  bake  twenty-five  minutes,  and  serve  with  a  blackberry  hard 
sauce.  The  sauce  is  made  in  the  usual  way,  with  half  a  cup  of  butter 
and  a  cup  of  sugar.     Add  to  this  half  a  cupful  of  crushed  berries. 

Blueberry  Betty. — Put  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  put  on 
the  fire  to  scald.  Pick  over,  wash  and  drain  a  pint  of  fresh  blueberries. 
Have  ready  a  pint  of  soft  whole  wheat  bread  crumbs.  Put  a  layer  of 
crumbs  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  berries,  then  more 
crumbs  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  on  top.  Stir  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  in  the  milk,  and  when  hot  pour  it  over  the  con- 
tents of  the  dish.  Cover  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  about  an  hour. 
Stand  the  pudding  dish  in  a  basin  of  hot  water.  Serve  with  a  tart  sauce. 
Blueberry  Pudding. — Beat  1^  cupful  sugar  with  four  eggs,  add  one 
pint  milk  and  one  cupful  flour,  in  which  sift  one  tablespoonful  baking 
powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt;  add  one  cupful  whole  blueberries;  pour 
in  a  buttered  covered  mold;  set  in  boiling  water,,  letting  water  only 
come  a  little  more  than  half  way  up  to  the  mold;  weight  down  and  boil 
continuously  for  one  hour;  slip  on  to  a  dish  and  cover  with  sauce,  then 
sprinkle  over  uncooked  fruit.  Sauce — Beat  one  cupful  granulated  sugar 
with  one  cupful  butter  to  a  cream;  then  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Baked   Blueberry   Pudding. — One   quart   ripe,    fresh   berries,   mace   or 
nutmeg  one-half  teaspoonful;  three  eggs  well  beaten,  separately;  sugar, 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  53 

two  cups;  cold  butter,  one  tablespoon;  sweet  milk,  one  cup;  flour,  one 
pint;  baking  powder,  two  teaspoons.  Roll  berries  well  in  flour,  add 
them  last.     Bake  half  hour  and  serve  with  sauce.     Delicious. 

Steamed  Blueberry  Puffs. — Beat  two  eggs  until  light  and  thick,  with- 
out separating;  add  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  milk; 
sift  together  three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  stir  into  the  liquid  ingredients;  then 
stir  in  one  cup  of  blueberries.  Turn  into  buttered  cups  and  steam  half 
an  hour.  The  batter  should  drop  easily  from  the  end  of  the  spoon. 
Serve   hot   with   cream   and   sugar. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. — Strew  half  a  cupful  of  currants  in  the 
bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  then  butter  some  slices  of  freshly-baked  bread 
and  lay  in  the  dish.  Make  a  custard  with  two  eggs  and  a  pint  of  milk, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  pour  it  over;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top  and 
bake  a  light  brown.  This  pudding  should  be  baked  in  the  dish  in  which 
it  is  to  be  sent  to  table.     It  is  delicious  eaten  with  stewed  fruit. 

Steamed  Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. — Butter  a  small  pudding  bowl. 
Cut  some  thin  bread  and  butter,  decorate  the  bottom  of  the  basin  with 
candied  peel  cut  in  stars,  or  a  few  raisins  or  preserved  cherries ;  put  in 
the  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  dusting  each  slice  with  sugar  and  sprinkling 
with  a  few  chopped  preserved  cherries.  When  full  beat  up  an  egg  with 
half  a  pint  of  milk,  flavor  with  essence  of  almonds,  and  strain  over  the 
pudding.  Leave  to  soak  for  a  while,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
steam  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter.     Turn  out,  and  serve  with  custard. 

Bread  Pudding  in  Disguise. — Break  half  a  loaf  of  bread  into  pieces 
and  soak  in  milk,  just  what  the  bread  will  take  up.  Then  add  an  egg 
and  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  rich,  creamy  milk  in  which  put  half 
teaspoonful  of  saleratus  and  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Bake  until 
light  and  well  browned  in  a  medium  oven.  To  serve  pour  a  little  maple 
syrup  over  each  dish. 

Brown  Betty. — Mix  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  level  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon.  Prepare  about  a  quart  of  sliced  tart  apples.  Stir  into  a  pint 
of  soft  bread  crumbs  about  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter.  Butter  well 
a  deep  pudding  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  sliced  apples  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  then  another  layer  of  crumbs,  apples  and  sugar  and 
continue  until  the  materials  are  used  with  a  thick  layer  of  crumbs  on  the 
top.  Bake  about  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  the  oven  browns  on 
the  bottom  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  or  bake  on  the  top  grate  of  the  oven, 
covering  the  pudding  well  to  prevent  too  crisp  an  upper  crust.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce  made  as  follows :  Cream  a  third  of  a  cupful  of  butter, 
add  gradually  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  and  when  beaten  to  a  cream 
add  drop  by  drop  to  prevent  separation,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  cream. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  juice. 


54  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Carrot  Pudding. — Mix  together  one  cupful  of  grated  bread  crumbs, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  each  of  flour  and  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of 
preserved  cherries,  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar  and  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt.  Boil  six  young  carrots  until  they  are  tender,  then  pass  them 
through  a  sieve  and  add  half  a  pound  of  this  pulp  to  the  other  ingredi- 
ents. Stir  the  mixture  well,  then  steam  it  in  a  buttered  mold  for  2^^ 
hours.  In  the  Winter  we  make  an  imitation  plum  pudding  in  which  a 
cupful  of  grated  carrot  is  used,  the  carrot  both  lightening  and 
enriching  it. 

Cherry  Cups. — Pleasure  a  pint  of  sifted  flour,  add  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  and  half  a  tcaspoonful  of  salt  and  sift  again.  Mix  to 
a  soft  dough  with  cold  water.  Butter  little  custard  cups  and  drop  in  a 
little  of  the  dough  and  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  the  cherries ;  cover 
these  with  more  dough  (the  cups  should  not  be  more  than  half  full). 
Set  the  cups  in  a  steamer,  or  if  you  have  no  steamer  you  can  put  them 
in  a  deep  baking  pan  with  a  little  boiling  watgr ;  cover  closely  with 
another  pan  and  steam  half  an  hour  in  the  oven.  Eat  with  cherry  sauce 
or  sweetened  cream.  On  bread  baking  day  you  can  make  these  with 
bread   dough   instead  of  the  baking  powder   dough. 

Cherry  Batter  Pudding. — Prepare  a  cupful  of  stoned  cherries.  Beat 
two  eggs  separately,  add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  or  better  still,  sweet  cream, 
to  the  yolks,  and  to  this  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Have  ready 
1^  cupful  of  flour,  into  which  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  have 
been  sifted,  with  a  dash  of  salt.  Add  this  to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
milk,  and  lastly  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  light.  Beat  vigor- 
ously for  a  few  minutes  and  turn  into  a  greased  baking  pan,  allowing  the 
batter  to  be  about  an  inch  thick.  Cover  it  with  the  cherries,  add  oncrthird 
of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  sprinkled  lightly  on  the  top,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  for  30  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce  or  a  sauce  made 
from  a  cup  of  cherries  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar  stewed  together  until  the 
cherries  are  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Sauce  as  well  as  pudding  should  be 
served  hot. 

Boiled  Cherry  Pudding. — Beat  three  eggs  light  without  separating;  add 
a  pint  of  milk.  Sift  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  in  a  little  less  than  a  quart  of  sifted  flour  aiid  add  the 
liquid  gradually  to  the  flour,  stirring  to  a  smooth  batter.  Add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  melted  butter.  Beat  thoroughly  and  then  stir  in  a  pint  of  cherries, 
stoned  and  drained  free  from  juice  and  well  floured.  Turn  into  a  well- 
buttered  pudding  dish  or  mold,  or  an  old-fashioned  pudding  bag,  scalded 
and  floured,  and  cook  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  for  three  hours.  Keep 
the  water  boiling  continually  or  the  pudding  will  be  heavy.  If  cooked 
in  a  mold  or  dish,  the  water  must  not  be  deep  enough  to  boil  over  the 
pudding.    If  in  a  bag,  there  must  be  sufficient  water  to  keep  the  pudding 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  55 

from  touching  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.     Serve  with  hard  or  foamy  sauce. 

Cherry  Pudding  in  Winter. — Nearly  fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  with 
the  sour  canned  cherries.  Use  just  enough  of  the  juice  so  the  cherries 
will  be  moist.  Spread  over  this  a  dough  made  from  one-fourth  teacupful 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  cupful  milk,  one  tgg,  a  little 
salt,  one  cupful  flour  (use  a  little  more  if  necessary  to  make  dough  like 
cake),  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Sauce  to 
serve  with  it  is  made  as  follows :  One-half  cupful  butter,  one-half  cupful 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  or  cornstarch.  Mix  thoroughly.  To  this 
add  a  pint  of  the  cherry  juice.     Boil  till  it  thickens. 

Canned  Cherry  Tapioca. — Cover  a  scant  cupful  of  tapioca  with  cold 
watef  and  let  it  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  place  over  the  fire  with 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  simmer  slowly  until 
the  tapioca  is  perfectly  clear.  Stir  a  pint  of  stoned  cherries  into  the 
boiling  tapioca ;  add  a  cupful  of  sugar  (more  if  the  cherries  are  very 
sour)  ;  turn  into  a  serving  dish  and  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — Put  into  a  bowl  two  cupfuls  of  stale  bread- 
crumbs. Pour  over  them  one  quart  of  scalded  milk.  While  the  bread 
and  milk  are  cooling  melt  two  squares  of  chocolate.  Mix  the  chocolate 
with  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  then,  with  two  eggs,  lightly  beaten,  one 
scant  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Add  the  milk 
and  breadcrumbs  and  then,  when  well  mixed,  turn  the  whole  into  a  pud- 
ding dish  that  has  been  buttered  and  sugared.  Bake  it  one  hour  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven.  Serve  cold,  with  cream.  This  pudding  can  be 
baked  in  individual  molds  if  preferred. 

Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding. — Boil  one  quart  of  fresh  milk  and  pour 
over  one  pint  grated  bread  crumbs,  one-fourth  cake  grated  chocolate,  one 
cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  chopped  nuts.  Steam  two  hours  and  serve  with 
a    sauce. 

Chocolate  Tapioca. — Soak  three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a  cup  of 
cold  water  for  half  an  hour;  add  three  pints  of  hot  milk,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  tapioca  is  tender.  Serve  with  a  meringue 
made  from  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  powdered  sugar  or  whipped  cream. 

Cider  Pudding. — Mix  a  cupful  of  cider,  a  cupful  of  molasses,  a  cupful 
of  suet,  a  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Steam  three 
hours. 

Baked  Cider  Pudding. — Cream  1^^  tablespoonful  butter,  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar  and  one  t^g.  Beat  all  together  until 
very  light.    Add  half  a  cupful  of  cider.    Into  one  cup  of  flour  put  one- 


5«  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves. 
Sift  this  into  the  batter  and  add  a  quarter  cupful  each  of  currants  and 
Sultana  raisins  mixed  with  a  quarter  cupful  of  flour.  Add  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  baking  soda  with  the  last  bit  of  flour  and  beat  briskly  for 
a  minute  or  two.  Pour  into  a  well-greased  mold  and  steam  one  hour 
and  a  half;  turn  out  carefully,  as  the -texture  is  delicate,  and  serve  hot 
with  orange  sauce. 

Cider  Bread  Pudding. — Butter  freely  several  slices  of  light  bread. 
Place  a  layer  in  pudding  dish,  cover  with  a  few  slices  of  tart  apples; 
repeat  until  the  dish  is  full.  To  a  quart  of  good  cider  add  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  pour  over.  Bake  slowly  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold  with 
cream. 

Citron  Pudding. — A  quart  of  fresh  milk,  a  pint  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 
carefully  grated,  four  eggs,  a  coffee  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a  pound 
of  citron  cut  fine,  a  small  amount  of  butter  and  the  juice  and  rind  of 
one  lemon.  The  yolks  and  sugar  are  beaten  together  and  the  bread 
crumbs,  milk  and  lemon  rind  added  by  degrees.  This  is  poured  into  a 
buttered  dish,  the  citron  dropped  in  and  a  piece  of  butter  placed  over 
all.  The  baking  required  half  an  hour  and  the  preparation  when  cold 
is  covered  with  a  meringue  made  of  four  whites,  a  cup  of  powdered 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.     This  is  browned  slightly  before  serving. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. — Otie-half  cupful  of  cocoanut,  one-half  cupful  of 
bread  crumbs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  level  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Soak 
the  bread  crumbs  and  cocoanut  in  the  milk  for  three  hours ;  mash  the 
bread  fine,  and  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  melted  butter.  Beat  the  white 
and  yolk  of  the  tgg  separately,  and  add  first  the  yolk  and  then  the  white, 
stirring  well.  Place  all  in  a  well-buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  half 
an  hour.     Serve  hot  without  sauce. 

Coffee  Pudding. — Boil  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  ground  coffee  in 
one  quart  water  10  minutes;  then  add  one-half  ounce  gelatine  which 
had  been  soaked  15  minutes;  then  add  one  cup  sugar;  boil  one  minute; 
then  strain  through  a  cloth,  set  aside  to  get  cold;  when  almost  jellied 
beat  one-half  pint  cream  till  near  stiff,  then  add  the  coffee  jelly,  gradu- 
ally beating  all  the  time.  When  all  is  well  mixed  flavor  with  vanilla, 
and  set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  It  can  be  served  alone,  or  with  cream. 
The  recipe  is  enough  for  six  people. 

Colonial  Pudding. — When  baking  bread  put  a  piece  of  the  dough  into 
a  pound  baking  powder  tin  and  bake  this  for  the  top  of  the  pudding. 
Soak  some  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread  in  scalded  milk  for  two  hours. 
Then  beat  up  well,  add  a  cupful  of  raisins,  a  little  chopped  mixed  peel, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spice,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  two  ounces 
of  beef  suet,  chopped  very  fine,  or  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  57 

Mix  all  well  together,  adding  cold  milk  as  you  mix  it,  and  then  put  into 
a  buttered  baking  dish.  A  lound,  shallow  dish  is  the  best  to  use,  and 
it  should  also  be  one  that  can  be  sent  to  the  table.  Now  cut  the  white 
bread  into  slices,  butter  them,  and  lay  them  closely  together  on  the  top 
of  the  pudding  mixture.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  all,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  covering  it  for  an  hour  and 
taking  off  the  cover  for  the  half  hour  so  that  it  may  be  a  nice  light  brown. 

Cottage  Pudding. — One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  two 
scant  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavoring  and  flour  to  make  a  batter  as 
stiff  as  cake  dough.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven  and  serve  with  milk  or  hot  sauce.  To  make  hot  sauce  cream 
together  one  tablespoon  butter  and  two  of  flour  with  half  cup  of  sugar. 
Slowly  add  enough  boiling  water  to  make  it  thin  and  smooth.  Then 
proceed  to  add  boiling  water  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  thin  starch. 
Boil  a  few  minutes  and  flavor  before  serving. 

Steamed  Cranberry  Dumplings. — Make  the  dumplings  of  good,  pre- 
pared flour,  which  cannot  fail  to  be  light,  using  one  pint  of  it;  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  mix  with  milk  to  a  paste  just  stiff  enough  to  drop  by 
tablespoonfuls  on  the  buttered  steamer  bottom;  steam  over  boiling  water 
about  half  an  hour.  Serve  immediately;  first  carefully  split  the  fluffy 
rolls  open,  lightly  butter  and  put  between  a  tablespoonful  of  stewed  cran- 
berry sauce  (warm)  ;  pour  over  a  foamy  sauce  made  as  follows:  Three 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  stirred  into  one  beaten  egg,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  flour;  beat  hard  and  put  into  double  boiler;  pour 
on  slowly  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  stir  constantly  until  the  sauce  thickens, 
then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  strawberry  flavoring. 

Cranberry  Pot-pie. — Butter  a  porcelain  stewpan  or  kettle;  put  in  a 
pint  of  berries,  sprinkled  with  one  cupful  sugar;  make  a  pint  of  biscuit 
dough,  shape  into  a  large  ring  and  lay  on  the  fruit  in  the  kettle;  then 
pour  another  pint  of  berries  into  and  around  the  cup  of  dough,  adding 
another  cupful  of  sugar;  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  into  the  center, 
cover  closely  and  stew  steadily  for  20  minutes.  When  done  turn  from 
the  kettle  on  to  a  platter;  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Cranberry  Pudding. — Sift  and  measure  one  pint  of  flour;  add  two 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Sift  again 
until  all  are  thoroughly  blended.  Add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a 
soft  batter.  Stir  in  one  cup  of  cranberries  that  have  been  coarsely 
chopped.  Pour  into  a  pudding  bag  or  a  porcelain-lined  mold.  If  the  bag 
is  used  boil  one  and  one-half  hour  in  plenty  of  water.  If  the  mold  is  used, 
steam  the  pudding  two  hours. 

Baked  Cranberry  Pudding. — Put  a  layer  of  coarsely  crumbled  bread  in 
bottom  of  buttered  dish;  then  a  layer  of  seeded  raisins  and  stewed  cran- 
berries, a  few  bits  of  butter,  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  extract;  repeat 


58  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

bread,  butter,  vanilla  and  fruit  until  dish  is  full;  have  crutnbs  and  but- 
ter top  layer ;  bake  until  puffy  and  brown ;  then  decorate  with  meringue 
and  place  in  very  moderate  oven  to  set  the  latter,  but  not  brown. 

Cream  Curds. — Beat  four  eggs  and  stir  them  into  a  quart  of  milk 
slightly  warmed.  New  milk  was  originally  called  for.  Add  a  little  salt 
and  turn  the  mixture  into  a  covered  earthen  pot.  A  bean  pot  or  cas- 
serole will  answer.  Set  the  pot  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  over  the  fire. 
As  soon  as  the  milk  cracks  turn  it  carefully  out  on  a  sieve  covered  with 
a  linen  cloth.  When  the  draining  is  complete  put  the  curds  in  a  glass 
dish   in  large  spoonfuls. 

Cup  Custards. — In  making  cup  custards,  it  is  a  pleasant  change  to 
put  in  each  cup,  before  the  custard  is  poured  in,  a  tablespoonful  of 
either  strawberry  or  raspberry  jam.  The  custard  cups  should  be  stood 
in  a  baking  pan  containing  hot  water  while  baking;  every  custard  should 
be  cooked  in  this  way.  A  date  custard  is  made  and  baked  in  the  ordi- 
nary manner;  then,  after  baking,  the  top  is  covered  with  stoned  dates, 
which  may  be  filled  with  nuts  if  desired,  and  rolled  in  powdered  sugar. 
The  dates  are  covered  with  a  meringue,  which  is  browned  in  the  oven, 
and  the  custard  is  then  served  cold. 

Peach  Custard. — Slice  ripe  peaches  in  a  glass  dish  and  sugar  them 
well  two  hours  before  they  are  to  be  served.  Make  a  boiled  custard  by 
taking  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pints  sweet  milk  and  one  tablespoon 
corn  starch  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  after  thoroughly  beating  together 
in  a  double  boiler  till  thick  and  smooth.  Pour  over  peaches  and  serve 
while  slightly  warm. 

Date  Puffs. — Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  quarter  of  a  cupful 
of  butter,  the  same  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Stir  in  one  cupful  of  stoned  dates;  fill 
muffin  cups  half  full  and  steam  30  minutes.  Serve  with  a  liquid  sauce 
or  with  sweetened  cream. 

Economy  Pudding. — Take  two  cupfuls  of  ginger  cookie  crumbs 
(crumbled  cookies)  and  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  molasses,  one 
teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  cloves,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one 
cup  seeded  raisins,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  table- 
spoonful  of  water  and  two  cupfuls  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  turn  into 
greased  pudding  pan  and  steam  three  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Farina  Pudding. — Place  a  double  boiler  with  one  pint  of  milk  over 
the  fire;  when  it  boils,  sprinkle  in  two  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  farina, 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Cook 
twenty  minutes,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  stir  for  a  few 
minutes,  remove  from  fire,  pour  into  a  mold  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Serve  with  orange  sauce  made  in  following  manner:    Stir  the  yolk«  of 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  59 

two  eggs  with  half  cupful  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  half  cupful  orange 
juice  and  one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  add  last  the  beaten  white  of  one 
egg  and  serve.     Or  a  vanilla  sauce  may  be  served  with  the  pudding. 

Fruit  Puffs. — Fill  old  cups  or  baking  cans  to  the  depth  of  two  inches 
with  strawberries,  sliced  apples,  or  any  kind  of  berries  and  cover  with  a 
layer  of  sugar.  Put  in  each  cup  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  completely 
cover  the  berries  with  a  batter  made  of  one  tg^,  one  pint  sweet  milk, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  flour  to  make  rather  stiffer 
than  for  pancakes.     Bake  40  minutes  in  a  steady  oven. 

Gingerbread  Pudding. — One  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
one-half  cupful  of  melted  lard  or  butter,  salt;  all  kinds  of  spice — one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  each — one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  two  scant  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda,  one  cupful  of  raisins  or  sliced  apples,  flour  for  stiff 
batter.  Steam  in  a  covered  pudding  dish  two  hours.  Hot  water  may 
be  substituted  for  buttermilk;  then  use  half  the  quantity  of  soda. 
Whipped   cream   is   better  than   sugar   with   this. 

Gooseberry  Charlotte. — Stew  a  pint  of  ripe  or  nearly  ripe  gooseberries 
for  10  minutes  very  slowly,  not  to  break  them.  Cut  six  or  eight  slices 
of  stale  plain  cake;  line  the  bottom  of  your  pudding  dish  with  them; 
put  next  a  layer  of  the  gooseberries  sprinkled  thickly  with  sugar;  more 
cake,  more  berries,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Cover  closely  and 
steam  in  a  moderate  oven  20  or  25  minutes.  You  will  find  the  juice  of 
the  berries  sufficient  moisture.     Serve  hot  with  a  good  pudding  sauce. 

Gooseberry  Fool. — According  to  the  original  English  recipe  it  was 
merely  gooseberry  sauce  enriched  with  cream;  American  authorities,  how- 
ever, use  eggs  and  butter  instead  of  cream.  To  make  it  English  fashion, 
stew  either  green  or  ripe  gooseberries,  after  topping  and  stemming  them, 
until  tender,  in  just  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  strain  through  a 
sieve,  sweeten  and  then  stir  in  as  much  rich  cream  as  taste  dictates; 
pour  into  a  glass  dish,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  A  very  delicious 
dessert  is  made  by  using  this  gooseberry  fool  as  filling  for  charlottes, 
lining  either  one  large  mold  or  small  individual  cups  with  ladies'  fingers 
or  small  slices  of  sponge  cake,  and  then  filling  with  the  gooseberry  mix- 
ture, putting  whipped  cream  on  the  top.  The  American  recipe  adds  to 
one  quart  of  ripe  gooseberries,  stewed  and  strained,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  beaten  to- 
gether until  light.  Pour  into  a  glass  dish,  and  heap  on  top  the  whites 
uf  the  eggs,  beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar. 

Gooseberry  Pudding. — Green  gooseberries  mixed  with  rhubarb  make 
a  nice  combination  for  pie  or  puddings.  Of  course  plenty  of  sugar  is 
needed.  For  gooseberry  pudding  line  a  mold  with  baking  powder  or  suet 
crust  (preferably  the  latter),  fill  with  gooseberries  alone  or  mixed  with 
rhubarb,  sugar  liberally,  add  a  little  water,  and  cover;  steam  three  houri. 


60  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Graham  Pudding. — Make  a  batter  of  a  cupful  of  molasses,  a  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  a  cupful  of  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  two  cupfuls  of 
graham  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda.  Steam  for  three  hours. 
Eat  with  a  sauce  made  of  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  creamed  with  half 
a  cupful  of  sugar  and  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  an  tgg  and  lemon  to 
flavor. 

Graham  Date  Pudding. — Stone  a  cupful  of  dates  and  add  them  to  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Set  on  the  fire  and  stir  in  graham  flour  to  make  a  moderately  thick  por- 
ridge. Cook  thoroughly,  set  away  to  get  cold.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Graham  Plum  Pudding. — One  egg,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  two  cupfuls  gra- 
ham flour,  one-half  cupful  raisins.  Mix  and  steam  three  hours.  Serve 
with  this  sauce :  One  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  white  flour,  the  yolk  of  one  tgg.  Add  hot  water  and  let 
it  boil,  then  white  of  tgg  and  flavor. 

Grape  Pudding. — Soak  one-half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  a  cup 
of  cold  water,  until  soft;  add  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  one 
lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  grape  juice.  Set  aside  to  cool 
until  it  begins  to  stiffen,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs.  Run  into  a  mold.  When  ready  to  serve  unmold  and  garnish  with 
whipped  cream.  A  bunch  of  grapes  may  be  placed  on  the  top  of  the 
mold.     This  will   serve  eight  persons. 

Grape  Pudding  No.  2. — This  is  an  old-fashioned  dish  which  may  be 
either  boiled  or  baked.  Delaware  grapes  are  best  for  it.  Wash,  pick 
and  flour  well  before  putting  into  the  batter.  A  heaping  pint  of  picked 
grapes  makes  a  fair-sized  pudding.  For  the  batter  beat  four  eggs  very 
light,  whites  and  yolks  separate,  mix  smoothly  with  the  yolks  half  a 
pint  of  milk  and  one  pint  of  flour  sifted  twice.  Add  half  a  cupful  of 
butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  and  last  of  all  the  whites  of  eggs,  stirring  them 
in  with  long,  swift  strokes,  all  the  same  way.  The  grapes  go  in  at  the 
very  last,  and  the  bag  or  the  pan  ought  to  be  ready  before  they  are 
added.  Boil  the  pudding  three  hours,  and  serve  with  a  rich  grape  juice 
sauce.  For  a  baked  pudding  the  white  of  one  e.gg  may  be  kept  out,  and 
used  for  a  meringue.     Serve  with  the  same  sauce. 

Huckleberry  Blanc  Mange. — Heat  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler 
(reserving  one-third  of  a  cupful  with  which  to  mix  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  cornstarch).  Add  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
When  the  milk  is  scalding  hot,  stir  in  the  cornstarch,  and  cook  for  five 
minutes.  Pour  this  on  the  well-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat 
thoroughly.  When  cool  pour  a  little  of  it  into  a  wetted  mold,  strew 
over  this  fresh  blueberries,  then  another  portion  of  the  blanc  mange, 
then  more  of  the  blueberries   (using  a  pint  in  all),  finish  with  the  blanc 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  61 

mange  and  set  on  ice  to  harden.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  out  on  a 
flat  glass  or  china  jelly  plate  and  serve  with  either  whipped  or  plain 
cream,  slightly  sweetened. 

Huckleberry  Pudding. — Ingredients :  One  pint  of  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, a  quart  of  huckleberries,  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  each  of  powdered  cinnamon,  ginger  and  cloves  and  1^  teacupful  of 
flour.  Put  the  molasses  in  a  bowl,  dissolve  soda  in  a  little  water  and 
stir  in  molasses;  add  spice,  fruit  and  flour  and  pour  the  mixture  in  the 
pudding  mold.  Tie  the  lid  on  and  set  it  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  for 
three  hours. 

Huckleberry  Indian  Pudding. — Mix  together  two  quarts  of  warm  milk, 
three-fourths  cupful  finely-chopped  suet,  two  tablespoonfuls  molasses,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  enough  Indian  meal 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Add  at  the  last  two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately,  and  a  quart  of  huckleberries  dredged  with  flour.  Boil 
for  two  and  one-half  hours  in  a  buttered  bag  or  mold,  never  allowing 
the  water  to  stop  boiling,  and  serve  hot  with  foamy  sauce. 

Hulnah  Pudding. — Wash  a  cupful  of  rice  and  add  to  it  a  quart  of 
milk,  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a 
little  cold  milk.  Flavor  with  quarter  of  a  nutmeg  grated.  Bake  an  hour 
and  a  half,  stirring  down  occasionally,  but  do  not  stir  down  the  skin 
which  forms  on  top ;  then  let  it  brown.  When  done  take  from  the  oven, 
remove  the  brown  skin  and  when  the  pudding  is  cool  lay  over  the  top 
preserved  strawberries  or  cherries.  Make  a  meringue  with  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  heap 
over  the  top  of  the  fruit.  Set  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  brown  a  delicate 
color.     Eat  with  cream. 

Indian  Pudding. — One  pint  of  skim~m.\\\i  scalded.  While  hot  stir  in 
smoothly  two  cupfuls  of  Indian  meal,  add  a  little  salt,  a  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon  and  half  a  cupful  of  molasses,  also  the  same  of  sugar. 
Stir  well.  Now  add  a  quart  of  cold  skim-milk,  and  mix  lightly  as  pos- 
sible. Bake  slowly  for  two  hours.  Your  finished  product  will  be  fra- 
grant, rich,  golden,  trembling  in  its  sweet  jellied  whey.  Now  add  the 
last  touch.  When  you  serve  it,  put  a  heaping  spoonful  of  nice  apple 
sauce  flavored  with  nutmeg  over  the  top,  and  if  you  like  another  spoon- 
ful of  whipped  cream  over  that. 

Indian  Apple  Pudding. — Take  one-half  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  quart 
of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  scant  cups  of  pared  and  sliced 
apples,  to  which  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  cinna- 
mon. When  the  milk  boils  in  the  double  boiler,  pour  it  slowly  on  the 
meal.  Cook  half  an  hour  in  the  boiler,  stirring  often.  Now  add  the 
other  ingredients;  pour  into  a  deep,  well  greased  pudding  dish  and  bake 
«lowly.    Eat  with  cream  or  maple  syrup. 


63  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. — One  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  com  meal, 
one  tgg,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  beef  suet 
minced  fine  and  strings  removed,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and 
ground  cinnamon,  one-third  saltspoonful  of  soda  in  the  milk.  (Sour  milk 
may  be  used,  in  which  case  take  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda.)  Heat 
the  milk  with  the  soda;  when  boiling  stir  in  the  meal,  salt  and  suet  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  beat  in  the  spice,  sugar  and  whipped 
eggs  and  stir  vigorously.  Boil  in  a  well-greased  brown  bread  mold  for 
three  hours.  Leave  plenty  of  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce  or  caramel,  maple  sugar  or  molasses.  The  recipe  may 
be  doubled  and  divided  in  two  molds  for  steaming — one  to  be  set  aside 
in  a  cool  place  and  used  in  a  week.  A  cupful  of  chopped,  floured  rai- 
sins, dates,  or  cooked  dried  apricots  may  be  added.  For  molasses  sauce, 
use  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  a  dash  each  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 
Boil  molasses,  spices  and  butter  five  minutes,  remove  from  fire  and  add 
lemon  juice.     Serve  very  hot. 

New  England  Indian  Pudding. — Take  one  pint  of  milk,  scald  it  and 
pour  it  over  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  Indian  meal,  in  which  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-quarter  of  a 
whole  nutmeg  grated,  have  been  blended.  Stir  briskly,  and  when  per- 
fectly smooth  add  one-third  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one-third  cup  of  mo- 
lasses ;  when  this  is  well  mixed  add  one  pint  of  cold  milk.  Beat  well, 
turn  into  a  greased  dish,  set  it  in  another  containing  warm  water  and 
bake  three  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 
This  pudding  will  look  as  if  it  had  cream  and  eggs  in  it,  and  it  should 
be  stirred  gently  three  times  during  the  first  hour  and  a  half. 

Old-Fashioned  Indian  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of 
Indian  meal,  three  eggs,  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  one-half  pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  into  powder. 
Scald  the  milk  and  while  boiling  hot  stir  in  the  meal  and  suet  with  the 
salt.  When  cold,  add  the  yolks,  beaten  light  with  the  sugar,  then  the 
whites.  Dip  your  bag  in  hot  water,  flour  it  and  fill  half  full  with  the 
mixture,  as  it  will  swell  very  much.  Boil  five  hours.  Eat  very  hot, 
with  butter  and  sugar.  This  pudding  is  even  better  when  baked  in  a 
well-buttered  dish  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Bake,  covered,  for  an  hour 
and  a  quarter,  then  brown. 

Kenilworth  Pudding. — Two  cupfuls  of  light  chopped  bread,  one-half 
cupful  chopped  suet,  taking  care  to  free  it  from  all  strings,  one-half 
cupful  of  molasses,  one  tgg,  one  cupful  raisins,  seeded  or  the  seedless, 
one  cupful  sweet  milk,  with  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  it, 
one-half  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves.,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon  and  a 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  «3 

pinch  of  mace  and  salt.  Mix  thoroughly  and  boil  two  hours  in  a  tin 
pudding  dish.     Eat  with  foamy  sauce. 

Lemon  Pudding. — Grate  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  and  squeeze  over 
them  the  juice  to  keep  moist  Beat  together  two  eggs,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch  or  flour,  tablespoon  butter 
and  enough  cold  water  to  thoroughly  moisten.  Place  in  double  boiler 
and  add  one  and  one-half  pint  boiling  water,  stirring  till  the  mass  is 
smooth  and  thick.  Just  before  removing  from  fire  add  the  rind  and 
juice  of  the  lemons  and  beat  thoroughly.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made 
of  one  white  of  tgg  and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  then  slightly 
brown  in  the  oven. 

Maple  Custard. — Scald  one  pint  of  rich  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and 
when  hot  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  mixed  with  one-third  of  a 
cupful  of  cold  milk.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fine-shaved  maple  sugar  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Stir  until  smooth,  adding  when  cool  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Use  whites  of  the  eggs  with  sugar  for  frosting. 
By  including  whites  of  eggs  in  the  custard  and  omitting  the  cornstarch 
a  delicious  cup-custard  can  be  made. 

Molasses  Bread  Pudding. — Stir  into  one  quart  of  milk  one  pint  of 
bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  raisins,  seeded,  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg  to  flavor.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  three  hours,  stir- 
ring a   little  when   first   heated.     Serve   hot  with   cream. 

Peach  Roll. — Into  four  cups  of  flour  sift  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  add  two  cups  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  soda  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Roll  out  thin  and  cover  with  canned  peaches  which  have  been 
drained  from  the  juice.  Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Cut  the  dough  into  strips 
and  roll  up.  Bake  or  steam  one-half  hour.  If  baked,  pour  a  little 
water  into  the  pan.  Serve  with  the  reserved  juice  or  with  cream  and 
sugaf. 

Peach  Tapioca. — Soak  one-half  cupful  of  tapioca  over  night  in  plenty 
of  cold  water.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding  dish  with  a 
layer  of  canned  peaches,  pour  over  this  the  tapioca,  which  has  been 
sweetened  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  put  over  this  another  layer 
of  the  peaches  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  until  very  stiff,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
spread  this  over  the  peaches  and  return  to  the  oven  until  a  delicate 
brown.  Add  more  sugar  to  the  juice  left  from  the  canned  peaches,  beat 
one-half  cupful  of  cream  until  light,  pour  gradually  over  it  the  peach 
juice,  beat  all  together  and  serve  with  dessert.  This  dish  is  good  served 
either  cold  or  hot. 

Pear  Charlotte. — Slightly  moisten  six  slices  of  stale  bread  with  cold 
water,  spread  them  with  soft  butter,  put  half  of  them  in  the  bottom  of 


64  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

a  buttered  pudding  dish,  spread  over  them  two  cupfuls  of  finely  chopped 
ripe  pears  and  sprinkle  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  grating  of 
nutmeg  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Lay  over  them  the  re- 
mainder of  the  bread,  another  two  cupfuls  of  the  chopped  pears  and 
nutmeg,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  as  before.  Pour  over  one  cupful  of  thin 
maple  syrup,  cover  closely  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  one  hour.  Serve 
hot  with  whipped  cream  or  maple  syrup. 

Pear  Pudding. — Put  one  quart  of  canned  pears  into  a  baking  dish ; 
add  a  finger  length  of  stick  cinnamon  and  three  cloves.  If  the  pears 
have  not  been  sweetened  sufficiently  when  put  up  add  sugar  to  make 
them  quite  sweet,  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  dredge  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour  over  the  top.  Place  the  dish  on  the  range  where  it  will  heat  while 
you  mix  a  pint  of  flour  into  a  biscuit  dough  according  to  well-known 
directions;  make  a  very  soft  dough;  pat  into  shape  with  the  hands  and 
cover  the  pears.  Bake  about  25  minutes.  There  should  be  rich  juice 
enough  to  moisten  the  crust.  If  preferred  it  may  have  plain  cream 
served  with  it. 

Persimmon  Pudding. — One  quart  of  persimmons  mashed  fine  with  the 
hands,  and  every  seed  removed.  Add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  ginger,  and  half  as  much  of  allspice  and  cloves,  half  cupful  of 
sugar.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake  till  well  set,  as  if  for 
custard.     Eat   hot   or   cold ;    delicious    either   way. 

English  Plum  Pudding. — ^One  pound  stoned  raisins;  one  pound  of 
suet,  chopped  fine;  ^  pound  of  stale  bread  crumbs;  one-fourth  pound 
of  brown  sugar;  grated  rind  of  one  lemon;  J4  pound  of  flour;  one 
pound  cleaned  currants;  ^  nutmeg,  grated;  five  eggs;  one  cup  milk; 
one-half  pound  chopped  candied  peel.  Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients;  then 
beat  the  eggs,  add  the  milk  to  them,  pour  over  the  other  materials,  and 
mix  well;  it  will  require  very  hard  stirring,  as  it  is  stifle.  Put  in 
greased  molds  holding  one  quart  each,  cover  with  well-floured  cloth,  and 
boil  for  six  hours.     Store  away,  and  when  used  boil  for  six  hours  more. 

Plum  Pudding. — Fill  a  deep  baking  pan  to  the  depth  of  two  inches 
with  seeded  plums,  well  sugared.  Dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  put  over 
the  top  a  thick,  good  light  biscuit  crust  with  holes  for  the  steam  to 
escape.  Bake  40  minutes  and  serve  with  the  juice  from  canned  plums 
or  cream.  This  is  good  pudding  when  canning  is  going  on  to  use  up 
the  surplus  juice.  Seeded  grapes,  peaches,  apples  or  cherries  may  be 
used  instead  of  plums. 

Plum  Roll.— Sift  together  one  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  rub  into  the  prepared  flour 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  make  into  soft  dough  with  milk  or 
water;  roll  out  quite  thin,  sprinkle  with  one  cup  of  seeded  chopped  rai- 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  65 

sins,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  chopped  citron  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon ;  roll  up  and  steam  for  40  minutes ;  serve  hot,  with  hard  sauce. 

Poor  Man's  Pudding. — One  cupful  sour  milk,  one  cupful  of  mo- 
lasses, one  cupful  of  cold  water,  two  cupfuls  Indian  meal,  half  a  cup  of 
butter,  one  tgg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  all  together  thoroughly.  Pour  into  a 
greased  pudding  pan  and  bake  two  hours  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Poverty  Pudding. — Chop  one  cup  of  suet  very  fine;  stone  one  cup 
of  raisins;  add  one  cup  of  molasses  to  the  suet;  then  add  milk,  one 
cupful ;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  beat  hard  for  three  minutes;  add 
raisins  well  floured  and  three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder ;  turn 
into  a  greased  mold  and  boil  three  hours ;  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Prune  Sago. — After  washing  one-half  pound  of  prunes  put  them  to 
soak  till  well  puffed  out,  then  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  them.  Cook  till  soft;  pass  the  fruit  through  a  fine  sieve, 
after  stoning  it.  Mix  with  it  some  pearl  sago  that  has  been  well  boiled. 
There  should  be  equal  quantities  of  fruit  pulp  and  sago.  Heat  up,  but 
do  not  boil ;  if  too  stiff  thin  with  a  little  milk  or  water,  season  with 
lemon  juice;  it  will  be  sweet  enough  for  ordinary  palates.  Pour  into  a 
jelly  mold  and  when  cold  turn  on  a  glass  dish.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  boiled  custard. 

Pumpkin  Custard. — One  quart  of  hot  milk,  a  large  cup  of  strained 
squash  or  pumpkin,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  salt,  a  cupful  of 
sugar  in  which  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  pinch  of  ginger 
have  been  mixed,  and  three  eggs  beaten  light.  Mix  pumpkin  and  milk, 
add  other  ingredients,  the  eggs  last,  pour  into  custard  cups  which  must 
be  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  until  firm,  about  half  an  hour,  testing 
with  a  knife  blade.     If  it  comes  out  clean  they  are  done.     Serve  ice-cold. 

Queen's  Pudding. — Take  about  a  quart  of  good,  rich,  sweet  milk,  and 
half  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  minus  the  crust.  Milk  and  bread  are  scalded 
together,  and  cooled  enough  to  work  through  the  colander.  In  this 
way  the  bread  is  worked  smooth,  and  is  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  milk. 
To  this  mixture  are  added  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two, 
about  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  one  spoonful  of  butter.  Beat 
the  ingredients  together  very  thoroughly,  for  the  success  of  the  pudding 
depends  much  on  the  beating.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake  it  in  a  very 
moderately  hot  oven,  like  a  custard  pie,  which  should  never  come  to  a 
boil.  When  baked,  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add 
three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  for  the  frosting.  Spread  a 
good  layer  of  jelly  upon  the  pudding,  and  over  this  spread  the  frosting, 
and  set  in  the  oven  till  it  browns,  which  takes  but  a  very  few  minutes 
if  the  oven  is  hot.    To  be  eaten  with  cream  and  sugar. 


66  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Raisin  Steamed  Pudding. — Blend  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  to  this  add  one  beaten  tgg,  half  a  cupful  of 
milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  sifted  with  two  cupfuls  of 
flour,  and  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins  dredged  in  flour.  Fill  cups  par- 
tially full  with  the  batter  and  steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve 
either   with   boiled   sauce   or   sweetened   cream. 

Baked  Raspberry  Pudding.— Line  a  small  pudding  dish  with  rich  puff 
paste  and  prick  with  a  fork.  Bake  a  light  brown  and  set  it  aside  until 
cold.  Beat  very  light  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  add  slowly  one  cup  of 
sugar,  and  lastly  stir  in  a  quart  of  red  raspberries.  Heap  this  lightly  into 
the  cooked  shell  in  the  pudding  dish,  return  to  the  oven  and  bake  15 
to   20   minutes.     Have  the   oven   just   moderately   hot. 

Boiled  Raspberry  Pudding. — Open  a  can  of  canned  or  preserved  rasp- 
berries and  drain  off  the  liquor,  saving  it  for  sauce  for  the  pudding. 
Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough;  roll  this  into  a  sheet  a  half  inch  thick, 
spread  thickly  with  the  berries,  sprinkle  bits  of  butter  over  these  and 
roll  up  the  sheet  of  dough  as  you  would  a  sheet  of  music.  Put  into  a 
floured  cloth  and  boil  for  three  hours.  Add  to  the  raspberry  liquor  a 
little  sugar  and  boil  up  once.  Take  the  pudding  from  the  cloth,  lay  on 
a  dish  and  pour  the  steaming  sauce  over  it. 

Red  Pudding.— A  pint  of  red  currants,  a  pint  of  raspberries,  and  a 
pint  of  cold  water;  mix,  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Thus,  if  a  rather  sour 
pudding  is  desired,  two  teacupfuls  of  sugar  will  be  sufficient  to  sweeten 
these  ingredients,  but  if,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  a  sweeter  pudding  that 
is  required,  the  amount  of  sugar  must  be  increased  correspondingly.  To 
this  mixture  add  cinnamon — two  sticks,  each  about  three  inches  in  length 
will  be  sufficient —  already  broken  into  bits,  and  when  all  these  ingre- 
dients have  boiled  together  for  half  an  hour  in  a  porcelain-lined  stew- 
pan,  press  the  juice  through  a  sieve  into  another  receptacle,  and,  adding 
a  teacupful  of  blanched  almonds  and  citron  that  have  been  chopped  finely 
together,  cook  again  for  another  20  minutes.  When  nearly  done,  thicken 
with  cornstarch.  Set  aside  in  a  wet  mold  until  it  has  had  time  to  be- 
come hard;   then   serve  it  in   slices   covered   thickly  with  rich  cream. 

Rice  Pudding. — Have  one  pint  of  rice  boiled  done  and  still  hot.  Into 
this  stir  one  cup  of  raisins  to  swell  and  begin  cooking  in  the  hot  mass. 
When  nearly  cold  beat  together  three  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  cup 
sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste.  Add  the  rice  and  raisins,  stirring  till  smooth 
and  free  from  lumps.  This  pudding  will  have  a  delicious  thick  custard 
on  top  of  the  layer  of  rice  if  properly  made  and  is  better  than  the  old 
style  of  nearly  solid  pudding.     Bake  one  hour  and  serve  with  sweet  milk 

Lemon  Rice  Pudding.— Boil  a  cup  of  well  washed  rice  in  a  quart  of 
milk  until  very  soft.  Add  to  ii  while  hot  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  67 

and  a  pinch  of  salt.  If  too  thick,  add  a  little  milk.  It  should  be  rather 
thicker  than  boiled  custard.  Turn  it  into  a  pudding  Crtsh,  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
spread  over  the  top  and  brown  delicately  in  a  slow  oven. 

Rhubarb  Cobbler. — Fill  a  deep,  buttered,  earthenware  pie  dish  with 
rhubarb  cut  into  pieces  an  inch  long.  Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  flour,  milk 
and  salt,  allowing  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  each  egg  and  milk 
enough  to  make  a  batter  thick  as  for  fritter  batter.  Pour  this  over  the 
rhubarb  and  bake  until  the  pudding  is  light  and  nicely  browned. 

Rhubarb  Puffs. — One  cupful  of  finely  chopped  rhubarb,  one  cupful 
of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  creamed  with  the  sugar,  add  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  milk,  flour  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder  well  mixed  into  it,  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Fill  well- 
greased  cups  half  full  and  steam  for  half  an  hour.  The  sauce  to  serve 
with  these  puffs  is  made  by  creaming  together  one-half  cupful  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  a  small  half  cupful  of  butter,  then  add  by  degrees  one 
whipped  &gg,  beating  until  perfectly  smooth.  The  last  thing  before  serv- 
ing stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water. 

Boiled  Rhubarb  Pudding. — IMake  three  cups  of  flour  into  dough  as 
for  baking  powder  biscuit.  Roll  one-fourth  inch  thick;  cover  with  rhu- 
barb that  has  been  cut  in  inch  pieces  and  scalded.  Wipe  dry  before 
spreading  on  the  crust.  Sprinkle  liberally  with  sugar  and  add  a  dash 
of  nutmeg  if  desired.  Make  a  roll  of  the  dough  and  cook  in  steamer, 
or  tie  up  in  floured  cloth  and  drop  in  boiling  water.  Cook  30  to  45 
minutes;  serve  with  foamy  sauce. 

Rhubarb  Bread  Pudding. — Peel  the  rhubarb  and  cut  it  into  small 
pieces.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  with  pieces  of  buttered 
bread.  Over  this  put  a  layer  of  rhubarb.  Pour  over  it  a  half-teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice,  and  cover  liberally  with  sugar.  Add  another  layer  of 
bread  and  butter,  rhubarb,  lemon  and  sugar.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is 
full,  covering  the  last  layer  of  rhubarb  with  well-buttered  bread  crumbs. 
Cover  the  dish,  and  steam  for  one  hour.  Then  remove  the  lid  and  bake 
it  slowly  until  it  is  nicely  browned. 

Rhubarb  Tapioca. — Prepare  the  rhubarb  as  for  stewing;  place  in  a 
deep  baking  dish  and  add  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  well,  a  little  shredded 
orange  peel,  salt  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Add  one  quart  of  water 
to  half  a  cupful  of  fine  tapioca.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  for  15  minutes.  Then  pour  over  the  rhubarb,  cover  the 
dish  and  bake  half  an  hour.     Serve  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

Sour  Milk  Pudding. — Soak  four  slices  of  stale  bread  in  a  little  milk 
or  water  until  soft.  Then  stir  in  a  quart  of  rich,  sour  milk,  a  cupful 
of  molasses,  a  tablespoonful  of  melte-d  butter,  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
cloves  and  cinnamon,  saltspoonful  of  salt.     Bake  slowly  three  hours. 


G8  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Steamed  Pudding. — One  cupful  molasses,  one  &gg,  one  cupful  hot 
water,  one  teaspoonful  saleratus,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  cupful 
raisins,  stoned,  a  little  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  as  cake,  steam 
two  hours.  With  this  pudding  use  the  following  sauce  which  is  de- 
licious :  Cream  until  very  light  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  and  nearly 
cne-half  cupful  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla.    Just  before  serving  beat  in  the  unbeaten  white  of  one  tgg. 

Strawberry  Dumplings. — They  will  require  one  egg,  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  that  will  be  a  trifle  thicker 
than  that  which  is  commonly  used  for  griddle  cakes.  Pour  a  little  of 
this  batter  into  buttered  tins,  or  porcelain  cups ;  place  a  number  of  well- 
sweetened  berries  in  the  center  and  cover  them  with  more  batter;  then 
steam  for  about  half  an  hour.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  by  mashing 
some  strawberries  and  incorporating  them  into  an  ordinary  hard  butter- 
and-sugar  sauce. 

Strawberry  Pudding. — One  cup  cleaned  strawberries,  place  in  an 
earthen  bowl,  set  in  steamer  over  a  pot  of  cold  water,  place  over  the  fire; 
while  this  is  heating  and  coming  to  a  boil  make  a  batter  of  the  follow- 
ing: One  heaping  cup  of  flour  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  sift  all  together  two  or  three 
times,  then  add  sweet  milk  or  water  to  make  a  soft  batter  that  will  drop 
easily  from  spoon.  Lift  the  lid  of  steamer  and  drop  quickly  over  the 
strawberries,  covering  them  all  over  nicely.  Steam  for  40  minutes ;  do 
not  let  the  water  stop  boiling.  This  quantity  makes  enough  pudding 
for  four  persons.  Eat  either  with  cream  and  sugar  or  a  sauce  made  as 
follows:  Break  one  egg  in  a  dish,  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
granulated  sugar,  beat  light,  then  add  dessertspoonful  of  flour  and  a 
pinch  of  salt;  beat  well  again;  then  add  slowly  boiling  water  until  the 
sauce  is  of  the  required  thickness  (about  like  nice  cream)  ;  flavor  to 
taste.  This  sauce  is  very  nice  with  any  kind  of  pudding,  especially  cot- 
tage pudding. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. — One  quart  grated  raw  sweet  potato,  one 
quart  milk,  three  eggs,  two  cupfuls  sugar,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
e.gg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cinnamon  and  allspice  to  taste.  Mix 
well,  put  in  a  buttered  earthen  pudding  dish,  and  bake  two  hours  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Steamed  Sweet  Potato  Pudding. — Take  two  cupfuls  of  grated  raw 
potatoes,  one  cupful  of  grated  carrots,  two  cupfuls  of  currants,  one 
cupful  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  one  cupful  of  minced  suet,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  soda,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Place  in  a  greased  mold  and  steam  two  hours. 
Serve  with  boiled  sauce. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  69 

Suet  Pudding. — One  cupful  molasses,  one  cupful  beef  suet  chopped 
fine,  one  cupful  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  saleratus,  one  cupful  stoned 
raisins,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  four  cupfuls  flour.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Put  in  a  buttered  basin  in  the  steamer  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Steam  for  four  hours.  Do  not  disturb  while  steaming;  at  least  not  for 
the  first  hour. 

French  Tapioca  Pudding. — Scald  one  pint  of  milk  over  hot  water. 
Stir  in  one-third  of  a  cup  of  a  quick  cooking  tapioca,  mixed  with  a 
few  grains  of  salt  and  one-fourth  a  cup  of  sugar.  Stir  and  cook  about 
ten  minutes,  then  add  very  gradually  to  three  eggs  (or  two  whole  eggs 
and  the  whites  of  two  more),  beaten  very  light  and  thick.  Also  add  a 
grating  of  lemon  rind  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Turn  into  a  tur- 
ban-shaped mold,  thoroughly  buttered  and  dusted  with  sugar,  and  bake, 
standing  in  a  pan  of  water,  one  hour.  Serve  cold,  turned  from  the 
mold  and  surrounded  with  a  fruit  sauce.  This  is  a  rich,  yet  delicate 
pudding. 

Taylor  Pudding. — Stir  into  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  a  level  teaspoonful 
of  soda  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  into  the  milk  a  cup  of  Porto 
Rican  molasses  and  stir  the  wet  ingredients  slowly  into  two  cups  of  well- 
sifted  flour.  Beat  the  batter  well  and  pour  it  into  a  greased  cake  tin. 
It  will  be  about  the  consistency  of  cake  batter.  Bake  it  in  a  hot  oven 
for  about  thirty  or  forty  minutes.  When  it  is  nearly  done  prepare  a 
liquid  sauce,  as  follows :  Put  in  a  saucepan  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  10  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Let  it  boil  for  four  minutes  and  then 
add  three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  flavor  well  with  nutmeg. 
When  the  pudding  is  done  turn  it  out  on  a  platter  and  carry  it  to  the 
table.     Serve  it  cut  in  thick  slices  with  the  liquid  sauce. 

Yorkshire  Pudding. — This  is  a  batter  pudding  cooked  where  it  will 
receive  the  drippings  from  the  roasting  meat,  and  it  is  very  good;  as 
originally  made  it  was  cooked  in  front  of  an  open  fire,  where  it  would 
receive  drippings  from  the  meat  cooking  upon  a  spit.  About  an  hour 
before  the  roast  of  beef  is  done  drain  off  the  gravy,  leaving  about  two 
tablespoonfuls  in  the  dripping  pan.  The  meat  should  be  laid  upon  a  rack 
over  the  pan,  so  as  to  raise  it  up.  The  pudding  requires  three  eggs,  one 
pint  of  milk,  six  large  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  two  dashes  of  pepper.  Beat  the  eggs  until  light,  then  add  the 
milk.  Put  the  flour  into  a  bowl,  moisten  it  gradually  with  the  eggs  and 
milk,  beat  until  smooth ;  strain  it  through  a  sieve  to  avoid  lumps,  add  the 
pepper  and  salt,  pour  it  into  the  dripping  pan  and  bake.  Cut  into  squares 
or  strips,  and  serve  around  the  meat. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


APPLES. 


Apple  !  Apple  !     Call  for  Apple  ! 

Everywhere  you  go  ! 
Closely  watch  the  bill  of  fare, 
And  if  apple  is  not  there, 
Then  proceed  at  once  to  pare, 
Cook  and  landlord  down  with  care. 

Since  apples  play  a  large  part  in  farmhouse  economy,  it  has  been 
thought  well  to  group  recipes  for  their  use  together,  rather  than  sepa- 
rating them  in  various  chapters.  A  few  other  apple  recipes  will  "be 
found,  however,  included  among  jellies  and  preserves,  cakes  and  pastry. 

Baked  Apples. — Pare  and  core  cooking  apples ;  put  in  a  granite  pan ; 
put  over  them  a  cupful  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  cover;  bake 
until  almost  done;  take  the  cover  off  and  let  them  brown.  When  apples 
are  baked  in  a  covered  earthen  dish  or  casserole  flavor  and  appearance 
are  at  their  best.  Pare  and  core  the  apples,  sprinkle  them  with  sugar 
and  a  little  powdered  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Add  a  little  water,  cover  the 
dish,  and  bake  a  long  time  in  a  slow  oven.  The  apples  cook  to  a  deep 
red,  and  are  very  tender  and  rich  in  flavor.  Honey  is  a  desirable  addi- 
tion to  baked  apples.  Wipe  or  peel  the  apples,  and  remove  the  core 
without  running  the  knife  clear  through.  Into  this  hollow  put  a  bit  of 
butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  honey,  and  bake  after  the  ordinary  manner. 

Baked  Apples  in  Jelly. — Peel,  core  and  quarter  a  quart  of  apples,  add 
half  a  cupful  of  water  and  three-fourths  cupful  of  sugar,  put  in  a  cov- 
ered earthen  dish  and  cook  three  to  four  hours  in  a  slow  oven,  when 
they  should  be  dark  red  in  color.  Then  mix  with  the  apples  a  cupful 
of  liquid  lemon  jelly,  and  set  in  a  mold  to  harden.  These  baked  apples 
are  also  very  nice  eaten  warm  without  the  jelly. 

Fancy  Baked  Apples. — Peel  and  core  medium-sized  tart  apples.  Put 
them  in  a  baking  dish  and  pour  half  a  cup  of  water  over  them.  Set  in 
a  hot  oven,  and  when  the  apples  are  heated,  sprinkle  with  enough  sugar 
to  coat  each  and  bake  until  tender.  Make  a  syrup  of  one  cup  of  water, 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  the 
grated  rind.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  raisins,  two  of  chopped 
candied  cherries,  two  of  chopped  candied  pineapple,  and  two  of  chopped 
almonds,  and  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  set  at  the  back  of  the  stove  and 
let  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  When  the  apples  are  done  put  in  little 
glass  saucers,  taking  care  not  to  break  them.  Fill  with  the  cooked 
sweets  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them.     Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  71 

Boiled  Apples  in  Syrup. — Rub  the  apples  clean,  but  do  not  peel,  and 
stick  four  cloves  into  each.  Put  in  earthen  dish,  half  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  add  otie  cup  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  water.  Place  upon 
stove  and  cook  until  apple  skins  crack;  remove  apples,  then  boil  down 
syrup  until  it  is  like  jelly,  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 

Apple  Butter. — Apple  butter  should  be  made  from  new  cider,  fresh 
from  the  press,  and  not  yet  fermented.  Fill  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  with 
cider  and  boil  until  reduced  one-half.  Then  boil  another  kettleful  in 
the  same  way,  and  so  continue  until  you  have  sufficient  quantity.  To 
every  four  gallons  of  boiled  cider  allow  a  half-bushel  of  nice  juicy 
apples,  pared,  cored  and  quartered.  The  cider  should  be  boiled  the  day 
before  you  make  the  apple  butter.  Fill  a  very  large  kettle  with  the 
boiled  cider  and  add  as  many  apples  as  can  be  kept  moist.  Stir  fre- 
quently, and  when  the  apples  are  soft  beat  with  a  wooden  stick  until  they 
arc  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Cook  and  stir  continuously  until  the  consistency 
is  that  of  soft  marmalade  and  the  color  is  a  very  dark  brown.  Have 
boiled  cider  at  hand  in  case  it  becomes  too  thick,  and  apples  if  too  thin. 
Twenty  minutes  before  you  take  it  from  the  fire  add  ground  cinnamon, 
and  nutmeg  to  taste.  It  requires  no  sugar.  When  cold,  put  into  stone 
jars  and  cover  closely. 

Apple  Dumplings. — Pare,  quarter  and  core  tart  apples.  Put  one  table- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  in  one  quart  of  flour,  add  one  cupful  of  lard 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  mix  with  sweet  milk,  make  stiffer  than 
for  biscuits,  roll  and  cut  in  squares  and  put  around  the  pieces  of  apple. 
Into  a  deep  pudding  dish  put  one  quart  of  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar 
and  a  small  lump  of  butter.  Set  it  on  top  of  the  stove  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil.     Then  put  in  the  dumplings  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  one  hour. 

Apple  Dumplings  with  Bread  Dough. — Take  out  about  a  pint  of  bread 
dough  in  the  morning  when  it  is  ready  to  go  in  the  baking  pans,  more 
or  less  according  to  the  size  of  the  family;  add  shortening  half  the  size 
of  an  egg,  mix  through  the  dough  and  set  aside  until  an  hour  and  a 
half  before  dinner.  Then  cut  the  dough  into  as  many  pieces  as  there  are 
persons  to  serve  and  roll  out.  Pare  and  core  good,  tart  apples,  set  one 
on  each  sheet  of  dough,  putting  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  small  lump 
of  butter  in  the  place  of  the  cere,  fold  the  dough  about  the  apple,  pinch- 
ing it  tightly  together,  set  them  in  a  deep  earthen  dish  and  let  rise  half 
an  hour;  then  sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  over  them  and  pour  on 
one  cupful  of  cold  water  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  It  may 
be  well  to  cover  them  with  a  greased  paper  to  keep  them  from  getting 
too  brown  or  crusty.  Eat  warm  with  cream  and  sugar  or  any  sauce 
preferred.      Also    excellent    steamed. 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings. — Pare  eight  fine  apples  and  cut  them  in 
quarters,  remove  the  cores.    Roll  the  suet  crust  out  half  an  inch  thick  and 


72  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

cut  into  round  pieces.  Dust  each  piece  of  apple  with  a  little  sugar  and 
cinnamon  and  place  four  sections  on  each  round  of  paste.  Gather  up 
the  edges  and  pinch  them  together  over  the  apple.  When  all  the  dump- 
lings are  made,  drop  them  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  let  them 
boil  gently  for  an  hour.  Take  them  up  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with 
plain,  sweetened  cream.  If  you  want  to  serve  the  dumplings  "just  as 
grandmother  did,"  sweeten  the  cream  with  "treacle." 

Kenilworth  Ranch  Dumplings. — Take  a  quart  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
good  lard  and  half-cup  of  butter ;  rub  this  into  the  flour  after  it  is  sifted 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  add  enough  milk  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  This  is  rolled  cut  quickly  into  a  sheet  an  inch  thick  and 
then  cut  in  squares.  Into  each  square  is  laid  a  half  apple,  peeled  and 
cored,  and  the  crust  tucked  around  it.  Have  ready  in  a  dripping  pan 
a  syrup  made  of  one  cupful  of  sugar  to  one  of  water ;  lay  the  dumplings 
in;  bake  in  quick  oven  30  to  40  minutes.  Serve  with  an  old-fashioned 
molasses  sauce. 

Farmhouse  Apples. — Peel  and  core  tart  apples,  fill  the  space  from 
which  the  cores  were  taken  with  seeded  raisins,  bits  of  shredded  citron, 
sugar  and  a  little  lemon  peel;  stand  them  in  a  baking  pan,  pour  over 
them  half  a  cup  of  water  and  dust  with  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
granulated  sugar.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  perfectly  tender,  then 
sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top ;  dust  again  with  sugar,  and  leave 
them  in  the  oven  for  10  minutes.  While  they  are  baking  mix  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  with  a  half  cup  sugar;  pour  over  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  and  boil  a  moment ;  take  from  the  fire,  and  pour  slowly  over  one 
well-beaten  tgg;  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Pour  over  the  apples 
and  serve  warm. 

Apple  Fool. — Peel,  core  and  quarter  six  large  apples,  cook  them  until 
tender  with  three  or  four  cloves,  a  small  piece  of  lemon  peel,  half  a 
cupful  of  sugar  and  a  teacupful  of  water.  Remove  the  cloves  and  lemon 
peel,  beat  well  with  a  fork  and  stir  in  one-fourth  pint  of  thick,  sweet 
cream.  Cut  any  kind  of  delicate  cake  into  rather  thin  slices  and  place  a 
layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish.  Pour  over  it  diluted  red  currant 
jelly,  then  cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  the  apple  fool,  then  another  layer 
of  cake  and  currant  jelly,  and  heap  the  remainder  of  the  apple  fool  over 
the  top.  With  each  helping  serve  a  large  spoonful  of  whipped  cream 
flavored  with  almond. 

Hidden  Apples. — Butter  a  deep  tin  pan,  cover  the  bottom  with  a  layer 
of  pared  and  quartered  apples.  In  another  dish  beat  an  egg  well,  put  in 
enough  sugar  to  sweeten  the  apples,  add  a  little  water,  thicken  with 
powdered  bread  crumbs,  flavor  highly  with  lemon.  Pour  this  mixture 
over  apples  and  bake  until  the  apples  are  done,  which  will  take  about 
20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  73 

Apple  Johnny  Cake. — Mix  two  cupfuls  of  cornmeal,  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  a  scant  half-cupful  of  sugar,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water  and  milk  to  make 
a  thin  batter.  Stir  in  three  sour  apples  that  have  been  peeled  and  cut 
into  thin  slices.  Bake  in  a  shallow  tin  in  a  moderate  oven  for  35  minutes. 
Apple  Kisses. — Select  six  small,  smooth  apples.  Pare,  cut  in  half  and 
remove  the  core.  Mix  one-half  a  cupful  of  sugar  with  one-third  cupful 
of  butter.  Place  this  mixture  between  the  halves  of  the  apples.  Place 
in  a  baking  dish  with  a  little  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract- 
Bake  till  apples  are  soft.     Serve  with  their  own  juice  for  sauce. 

Apple  Pancakes. — Measure  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour;  add  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sift  again.  Then  stir  in  gradually  two  cupfuls  of 
cold  water  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  making  a  per- 
fectly smooth  batter.  When  well  mixed,  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Place  a  tablespoonful  of  fat  in  an  iron  frying  pan 
and  when  hot  pour  in  enough  batter  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  have  a  few  nicely-flavored  apples,  pared,  cored 
and  finely  minced;  sprinkle  a  layer  of  the  apple  over  the  cake  (not  too 
much,  or  the  pancake  is  liable  to  break).  As  the  cake  cooks,  slip  a 
flexible  knife  under  it,  lifting  it  so  it  will  not  burn,  and  shake  the  pan 
gently  to  and  fro.  When  the  pancake  is  a  light  brown  on  under  side, 
slip  it  on  to  a  hot  plate,  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  the  apples,  hold 
the  frying  pan  over  it  and  deftly  turn  the  cake  back  into  the  pan  and 
cover  and  cook  until  the  apples  are  soft.  Then  slip  it  out  of  pan  on  to  a 
hot  plate;  set  the  plate  over  hot  water  to  keep  the  cake  warm  and  con- 
tinue frying  up  remainder  of  the  batter  in  same  manner.  Serve  them 
separately  or  piled,  one  upon  the  other.  Serve  with  sugar  sprinkled  over 
them  and  oranges  or  lemons  cut  in  halves  for  squeezing  over  them.  This 
quantity  of  batter  should  make  four  cakes.  Do  not  have  your  pan  too 
large. 

Apple  Custard  Pancakes. — Beat  four  eggs  light,  adding  to  them  a  half 
pint  of  cream  and  a  little  ground  cinnamon.  Peel  and  core  the  apples, 
cut  them  in  thin  slices  and  fry  them  tender  in  a  little  butter.  When 
browned  slightly,  turn  them  over,  pour  in  the  custard  and  fry  to  a  light 
brown.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  flat  dish  and  sprinkle  powdere(l  sugar  over 
the  pancake. 

Apple  Pie. — As  a  variation  from  the  ordinary  pie  with  two  crusts, 
slice  apples  into  a  deep  earthen  pie  dish,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  and 
cover  with  a  top  crust  only.  The  absence  of  a  soggy  bottom  crust  is 
usually  viewed  as  an  advantage. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. — Peel  and  cut  apples  very  fine.  Line  a  deep  pan 
with  crust,  put  in  the  apples;  scatter  over  them  small  pieces  of  butter 
and  a  covering  of  granulated  sugar.     Then  pour  over  all  a  cupful   of 


74  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

sweet  cream  and  bake  until  the  apples  are  cooked.     Serve  just  before  it 
is  quite  cold. 

Dutch  Apple  Pie. — Make  a  rich  puff  paste  and  line  deep  pie  plate. 
Core  and  cut  into  eighths  as  many  rich  tart  apples  as  will  fill  the  pie 
plate  by  laying  each  piece  of  apple  with  the  curved  side  up,  just  as  close 
together  as  can  be  placed;  over  the  top  sprinkle  half  cup  light  brown 
sugar,  half  teaspoonful  cinnamon  and  tablespoonful  flour.  Dot  bits  of 
butter  over  the  top  and  add  half  cup  water;  bake  slowly  and  carefully 
until  apples  are  tender  and  water  absorbed.     Serve  warm  with  cheese. 

Dried  Apple  Pie. — Cook  a  large  handful  of  dried  apples  quickly  in  a 
tightly-covered  granite  basin  in  a  little  less  than  a  quart  of  water.  Six 
halves  of  dried  apricots  are  cut  fine  and  cooked  in  very  little  water.  Fill 
in  the  apple,  then  the  apricot,  together  with  water  they  were  cooked  in; 
add  a  small  cupful  of  sugar,  and  nutmeg,  making  the  pie  with  two  crusts, 
and  bake  quickly. 

Apple  Pot-pie. — Serve  this  with  maple-sugar  sauce.  Half  fill  a  deep 
dish  with  sour  apples  which  have  been  quartered,  pared  and  cored.  Pour 
over  them  a  little  boiling  water  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  until  tender. 
Make  a  crust  as  for  baking  powder  biscuit,  roll  out  an  inch  thick;  lay 
it  over  the  apples  and  return  to  the  oven  for  about  40  minutes  or  until 
the  crust  is  done.  For  the  sauce  cook  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  add  half  a  cupful  of  maple  syrup 
and  a  tiny  pinch  of  mace,  and  cook  until  clear  and  smooth. 

Apple  Pudding. — Make  a  dough  as  for  baking  powder  biscuit;  roll  out 
one-quarter  inch  thick.  Peel  and  slice  good  tart  apples  rather  thin;  put 
them  in  the  middle  of  the  dough,  put  on  them  half  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  nutmeg.  Wet  the  edges,  lap  over  the  apples 
well  to  keep  the  juice  in,  put  over  the  apples  a  little  water,  put  pudding 
in  a  cheesecloth  bag,  and  boil  two  hours  steady.     Eat  with  good  cream. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding. — Butter  a  granite  or  enameled  pie  tin  and  fill 
it  with  pared  and  quartered  Duchess  apples,  cut  in  rather  thick  slices. 
Cover  with  a  thick  batter  made  from  a  cup  of  flour,  in  which  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder,  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
have  been  well  mixed.  Add  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  or  sour 
milk  in  which  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved;  wc 
prefer  the  sour  milk.  Only  about  half  as  much  baking  powder  is 
required  with  the  sour  milk  as  when  sweet  milk  is  used,  but  we  always 
use  some  and  find  that  it  makes  the  food  lighter  and  better  than  where 
soda  alone  is  used.  When  the  pudding  is  done  reverse  it  on  a  plate, 
spread  with  butter  and  sprinkle  over  it  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  add  a  few 
gratings  of  nutmeg.    Eat  with  cream. 

Canadian  Pudding. — One  quart  of  quartered  sour  apples,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one-fourth  cupful  of  water,  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.     Bake 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  75 

these  ingredients  together  20  minutes  in  a  deep  pudding  dish ;  then  remove 
and  pour  over  the  apples  the  following  batter:  One  cupful  of  flour,  one 
tablespoonful  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  beaten  egg,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  soft  butter.  Return  to  the  oven,  increase  the  heat  and 
bake  for  20  minutes  more.  Serve  with  maple  sauce  made  as  follows: 
Add  to  one  thoroughly-beaten  egg  one  cupful  of  grated  maple  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  whipped  cream,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  In  Vermont, 
where  this  recipe  was  obtained,  a  bowl  of  grated  maple  sugar  invariably 
accompanied  most  desserts.  Pudding  sauces  were  always  well  covered 
with  it. 

Caramel  Pudding. — Peel,  core  and  slice  enough  sour  apples  to  measure 
one  pint.  Cook  them  slowly  in  a  saucepan  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  until  soft;  then  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  caramel  and  simmer  for 
twenty  minutes.  Mix  together  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  stale  bread 
crumbs,  one-half  cupful  of  crumbled  stale  macaroons  and  one-half  cupful 
of  seedless  raisins.  Butter  a  deep  dish  and  fill  with  alternate  layers  of 
the  apples  and  bread  mixture,  having  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  a  rather  hot  oven,  and  serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Eureka  Pudding.^Put  one  or  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  in  stewpan, 
add  cornmeal  to  make  a  thick  gruel,  and  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  boil 
long  and  slowly.  While  cooking  peel  and  slice  five  or  six  (more  or  less) 
good  cooking  apples ;  add  to  gruel.  Let  boil  tender,  add  sugar  and  boil 
longer  as  for  apple  sauce.  Turn  into  a  mold  and  eat  hot  or  cold  with 
cream  or  boiled  milk.  This  can  be  improved  by  putting  the  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stiff  into  pudding  before  taken  from  the  fire ;  add  the  yolks 
to  the  boiled  milk  and  serve  with  the  pudding. 

German  Pudding. — Pare,  core  and  slice  eight  or  10  sour  apples  and 
put  in  a  deep  pudding  dish,  sweetening  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and 
sprinkling  with  a  little  lemon  juice.  Pour  over  them  a  rich  egg  batter, 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour,  and  serve  cold. 

Indian  Apple  Pudding. — Take  one-half  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  quart 
of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  scant  cups  of  pared  and  sliced 
apples,  to  which  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  cinnamon. 
When  the  milk  boils  in  the  double  boiler,  pour  it  slowly  on  the  meal. 
Cook  half  an  hour  in  the  boiler,  stirring  often.  Now  add  the  other 
ingredients ;  pour  into  a  deep,  well-greased  pudding  dish  and  bake  slowly. 
Eat  with  cream  or  maple  syrup. 

Queen  Apple  Pudding. — Make  a  rich  pie  crust,  and  roll  out  in  an 
oblong  sheet.  Spread  with  chopped  apples,  cinnamon,  sugar  and  butter 
(cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together  for  convenience  in  spreading),  roll 
up  like  a  jelly  cake,  and  cut  off  in  two-inch  lengths.  Stand  the  slices  in 
a  dripping  pan,  with  a  Uttle  water  arpund  them,  an4  b^e  thoroughly  for 


76  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

30  minutes.     Very  good  either  hot  or  cold.     If  desired  it  may  be  baked 
in  the  entire  roll,  instead  of  slices. 

Apple  Roly-Poly.— Mix  a  half  cupful  of  finely-chopped  suet,  one  egg, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  cold 
water  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  with  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  paste.  Roll  out  the  paste  in  a  sheet  about  three-quarters  of  an 
•nch  thick,  brush  it  over  with  the  yolk  of  the  tgg  and  sprinkle  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  fine  bread  crumbs.  Spread  over  it  three  apples 
peeled  and  sliced  thin.  Sprinkle  with  one-half  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  roll  the  paste.  Brush  the  loU  with  egg,  sprinkle  it  with  bread  crumbs 
and  roll  it  in  a  napkin  that  has  been  wrung  out  of  hot  water  and  that 
has  been  covered  on  one  side  with  flour.  Lap  the  ends  over  securely,  tie 
with  a  string  and  boil  in  water  that  has  been  slightly  salted  for  an  hour 
and  a  half.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

Sour  Apple  Pudding. — Peel  and  slice  several  sour  cooking  apples  into 
a  pudding  dish ;  add  sugar  and  water  as  for  stewing.  Cover  and  bake 
until  nearly  tender.  Sift  together  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  and  a  scant  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  one 
€^gg,  mix  in  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and' 
one  cupful  of  milk,  then  stir  the  latter  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Pour  the 
batter  over  the  partly  cooked  apples,  and  bake  about  20  minutes.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream  or  a  creamy  sauce  made  with  sugar,  white  of  egg, 
and  lump  of  butter, 

Apple  Souffle. — Stew  the  apples  as  if  for  sauce,  adding  a  little  lemon 
peel  and  juice.  Spread  the  stewed  apples  high  around  a  baking  dish. 
Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
cinnamon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Let  the  custard  cool  and  then 
pour  it  into  the  dish  with  ths  apples.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
spread  over  the  top,  sprinkling  with  sugar,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
The  apples  should  be  about  an  inch  thick  at  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
the   dish. 

Spiced  Apples  with  Cider. — Boil  together  one  cupful  of  cider,  one- 
quarter  cupful  vinegar,  one  cupful  brown  sugar,  one  bay  leaf,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  whole  allspice,  two  dozen  whole  cloves,  two  inches  stick  cinna- 
mon, two  blades  mace.  Pare  and  core  eight  large,  tart  apples,  cut  in 
quarters  and  add  to  the  boiling  syrup ;  simmer  gently  until  tender,  but 
not  broken.  Take  out  the  fruit  carefully,  boil  syrup  until  thick  as  honey, 
pour  over  apples  and  serve  cold.  These  are  delicious  with  roast  goose, 
duck  or  pork  or  any  cold  meat. 

Navy  Apple  Shortcake. — Butter  thickly  an  oblong  granite  baking  dish. 
Halve  and  core  as  many  good  cooking  apples  as  will  fit  tightly  in  dish; 
cover  thickly  with  sugar  (about  a  coffee  cupful),  several  grates  of  nut- 
meg and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water;  make  a  righ  shortcake 


Cdear  friend  ) 


Please  accept  "The  Rural  Cook  Book"  with  our  compliments, 
and  with  our  best  wishes  for  yourself  and  your  family.  If  the  book 
should  contribute  in  any  degree  to  your  domestic  comfort,  health  or 
pleasure,  we  shall  feel  repaid  for  our  w^ork  in  preparing  it. 

Have  you  a  friend  or  neighbor  who  needs  this  book  ?  If  so,  he 
needs  The  Rural  New-Yorker  too.  Speak  to  him  about  it  now. 
Send  us  his  dollar  for  a  year's  subscription  to  The  Rural  New-Yorker, 
and  we  will  send  him  also  "  The  Rural  Cook  Book  "  free  and  postpaid. 
In  return  for  your  trouble  and  interest,  we  will  send  you  postpaid  a 
copy  of  any  one  of  the  following  books : 


YOUR 


CHOICE 


by 

Booth 

T«rkii<l<« 


THE    GENTLEMAN    FROM    INDIANA,    By    Booth 

Tarkixgtois^.  This  still  remains  the  best  work  of  this 
popular  author.  It  has  been  enormously  popular  and  still 
coulinues  to  make  new  friends.  It  depicts  some  striking 
phases  in  the  life  of  a  small  town  in  the  middle  West,  and 
contains  many  odd  and  unusual  characters. 

DAVID  HARUM,  Bt  E.  N.  Westcott.  No  other  book 
of  fiction  in  recent  years  has  reached  tlie  popularity  of 
David  Harum.  It  is  a  story  full  of  life  and  action,  abound- 
ing in  homely  speeches,  wise  philosophy  and  subtle  humor. 

THE  CARDINAL'S  SNUFFBOX,  By  Henry  Harland. 
A  charming  story,  the  scene  laid  in  a  pict  iresQue  corner  of 
Europe.  The  charactei's  depicted  are  delightful,  and  the 
reader's  sympathies  will  be  enlisted  from  the  start.  This  is 
regarded  as  Mr.  Harland's  finest  work. 

THE   FOUR   FEATHERS,    By  A.   E.   W.   Masox.    The 

scene  of  this  novel  is  partly  laid  in  modern  England  and 

Ireland,  and  partly  in  the  Soudan  after  the  fall  of  Khartoum. 

There  is  a  vivid  picture  of  a  Mahdist  prison  and  the  terrors 

/>     of  the  desert,  and  a  most  appealing  love  story  through  it  all. 

PAUL :  A  HERALD  OF  THE  CROSS,  By  Florence  M. 
KiNGSLEY.  A  deeply  interesting  story  of  New  Testament 
times,  written  in  a  reverential  and  religious  spirit.  It 
is  most  instructive,  yet  as  thrilling  to  the  reader  as  a 
modern  romance. 

Also  THE  PILLAR  OF  LIGHT,  By  Louis  Tracy  ;  THE  , 
MAKING  OF  A  MARCHIONESS,  By  Frances    Hodgson 
Burnett  ;    THE    FAIR    MAID    OF    GRAYSTONES,    By 

Beulah  Marie  Dix  ;  and  others. 

These  all  are  new  and  popular  books,  cloth  bound,  large  clear  print  and  were 
originally  published  at  $1.50  each.  Every  member  of  the  famUy  will  read  them  with 
interest  and  delight.  No  one  should  miss  these  books,  no  one  fail  to  read  them  and 
be  posted  on  the  best  literature  of  the  day.  You  may  have  have  as  many  of  the  books 
as  you  send  subscriptions.  Select  one  book  for  each  new  subscription  sent. 
(  See  following  pages  for  other  Rewards  ) 


FOR  ONE  NEW  YEARLY  SUBSCRIPTION. 


(one-half  size  of  knife) 
This  tine  medium  jack  or  large  pocket  knife>  S)i  inch  closed.  (The 
cut  is  about  ^2  size.  )  i  his  knife  is  brass  lined  ;  German  silver  bolster, 
highly  polished  blade.  It  is  strongly  constructed ;  the  blades  are  made 
of  finest  grade  English  steel,  highly  tempered.  The  knife  is 
guaranteed    to    give    absolute    satisfaction. 

FOR  ONE  NEW  YEARLY  SUBSCRIPTION. 


This  is  a  handsome  well  made  pen,  twice  the  size  of  the  pictiue. 
The  barrel  is  black  rubber,  neatly  engraved,  and  furnished  with  a  clip 
which  holds  it  securely  in  the  pocket,  preventing  loss,  j^et  permits  it  to 
be  removed  instantlv  when  desired.  The  pen  is  14  karat  gold,  medium 
size.  The  feeding  arrangement  is  of  the  most  approved  pattern.  But 
the  essent  al  thinsr  r.bout  a  fountain  pen  is  its  ability  to  write  freely, 
and  we  gave  this  pen  a  severe  test  for  several  da  s  with  very  satisfactory 
results.  It  is  packed  in  a  neat  box  with  filler  and  full  directions, 
which  should  be  carefully  followed.  Use  good  ink,  wash  the  pen 
frequently,  and  it  will  always  be  ready  to  write. 

FOR  ONE  NEW  YEARLY  SUBSCRIPTION. 

A  handsome  Ladies'  Pocket  Book  of 
black  cowhide  leather  with  Art  Neuveau 
embossing,  leather  lined.  It  has  four 
card  or  coin  pi;ckets.  one  with  flap  and 
tuck  and  one  chamois  lined  coin  pocket, 
size  closed  4^2  x2M  inches;  color  black 
oniy. 

Or  gentlemans  Strap  Wallet  made 
of  cow  hide  leather,  sheepskin  lined, 
with  a  compartment  for  bills  and  four 
card  pockets  ;  size  closed  43^x2^  inches; 
color  black  only. 


EVERY  READER  OF    THE    RURAL    COOK 
BOOK  NEEDS  A    FOOD    CHOPPER. 

FOR  TWO  NEW  YEARLY  SUBSCSRIPTIONS,  to  ^p^  -^m 
The  RurA-L  New-Yokkek,  we  will  send  as  a  reward, 
free  and  prepaid,  a  Rollman  Food  Chopper.  This  chop- 
per quickly  minces  foods,  utilizes  odds  and 
ends,  and  makes  them  into  dainty  dishes. 
It  can  be  operated  by  a  child.  There  is 
practically  nothing-  to  g-et  out  of  order 
and  with  ordinary  care,  will  last  a  life- 
time. With  every  chopper  is  furnished 
4  steel  cutters  for  cutting-  vegetables, 
fruit,  stale  brejad,  crackers,  raw  meat, 
cooked  meat,  cod  fish,  chocolate,  cocoa- 
nut,  cheese,  spices,  coffee,  horseradish, 
etc.  It  consists  of  practically  two  parts, 
making  il  possible  to  clean  quickly  and 
easily.  A  clamp  which  does  not  mar  the 
surface  holds  it  rig-idly  to  the  table,  PRACTICALLY  TWO  PARTS  ONLY 


FOR  TWO  NEW  YEARLY  SUBSCRIPTIONS. 


This  P  &  H  Blue  Steel  Razor  is  manufactured  from  the  hig-hest  grade, 
toughest  and  most  expensive  steel  made,  hand  ground  and  perfectly 
tempered.  With  each  razor  is  furnished  a  written  guarantee.  We 
have  tried  these  razors  and  believo  t  ey  are  all  that  is  claimed  for 
them,  and  that  thev  will  give  perfect  satisfaction,  but  in  case  of  any 
dissatisfaction,  we  agree  to  adjust  it. 


i 


W" 


HH 


FOR     THREE     NEW    YEARLY    SUBSCRIPTIONS. 


For  Dining-  Room  or  Kitchen,  an  elegant  carver.  8^-inch  blade  and 
fork ;  made  of  the  finest  steel,  hig-hly  polished,  good,  solid  Rosewood 
Handle,  well  riveted.  Cannot  be  affected  by  water.  Strong,  handsome 
and  durable.  Sent  free  and  postpaid  as  a  reward  for  3  new  yearly  sub- 
scriptions.    Read  what  an  agent  says  of  it : 

Dear  Sirs: — The  "Carving  Set"  received  some  weeks  ago.  It  is  a  surprise.  Wo 
expected  a  cheap  article,  instead  we  gret  a  highly  finished  set,  and  the  very  best  steel 
blade  we  ever  owned.  We  have  been  keeping  house  42  years  and  had  all  kinds  of 
cutlery.    Many  thanks.     We  hope  you  will  pi'Dsper  and  we  will  do  our  best  to  help. 

Muncie.  Ind.  Mrs.  J.  Boland. 


THE     FOLLOWING     BLANK     SHOULD     BE     USED. 

Enclosed  find  $         for  subscription  to  THE  RURAL  NEW-YORKER  and 

a  copy  oj  ''The  %ural  Cook  'Book''  free  and  postpaid,  to  the  following  addresses: 


For  my  trouble  send- 


as  per  name  aiid  address  beloiv. 


Name- 


Address- 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  77 

dough  and  roll  and  cover  the  apples;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  half  an 
hour;  loosen  round  the  edges  of  the  crust,  turn  it  upside  down  on  a  hot 
platter,  with  a  heated  knife  cut  into  squares  and  serve  at  once. 

Apple  Sponge. — Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  half  a  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar ;  flavor  with  lemon ;  beat  for  about  10  minutes ;  add  to 
it  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Peel  three  big  tender  apples ;  cut  them 
in  thin  little  slices-;  sift  half  a  cupful  of  flour  with  half  a  teaspoonful 
baking  powder  and  mix  well  with  the  former;  put  it  in  a  buttered  baking 
pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour;  spread  powdered  sugar 
over  and  serve. 

Apple  Puffs. — Chop  four  sour  apples  very  fine,  stir  into  them  one 
beaten  tgg,  one- fourth  cupful  molasses,  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  cornmeal, 
the  same  amount  of  sifted  flour  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  dissolve 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  warm  water  and  add  it,  using  enough  water 
to  make  a  thin  batter.     Bake  in  buttered  cups  in  a  quick  oven. 

Royal  George. — Dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  warm 
water;  add  to  a  cupful  of  sour  cream  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Then  add 
flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Roll  this  paste 
very  thin  and  line  a  deep  pudding  dish  with  it,  reserving  a  little  for  the 
top.  Fill  the  dish  with  tart  apples,  pared  and  quartered.  Sprinkle  half  a 
cupful  of  s.ugar  over  them  and  dust  with  cinnamon.  Cover  with  the  rest 
of  the  paste,  cut  out  in  rings  and  diamonds,  and  bake  until  the  apples 
are  done.  Eat  hot  with  cream  or  sugar  and  butter  beaten  to  a  white 
cream. 

Scalloped  Apples. — Pare  and  quarter  tart  apples.  Put  in  the  baking 
dish  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  cover  liberally  with  butter  and  granu- 
lated sugar.  Then  lay  the  apples  with  edges  lapping  and  sprinkle  chopped 
almonds  over  them.  Then  put  more  crumbs,  butter  and  sugar,  then 
another  layer  of  apples,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  crumbs,  butter,  sugar 
and  cinnamon.     Bake  until  apples  are  done.     Serve  with  rich  cream. 

Red  Apple  Sauce. — Wash  and  quarter — do  not  pare — enough  red 
apples  to  fill  the  bean  pot ;  sprinkle  over  a  cupful  of  sugar — more  or  less, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  pot — cover  and  place  in  the  oven  on  ironing 
day.  Cook  three  or  four  hours  and  pour  into  a  pretty  glass  dish  to  cool. 
The  result  will  be  a  delicious  surprise  in  the  matter  of  rich  flavor  and 
dainty  appearance. 

Baked  Apple  Sauce. — Wash  and  rub  dry  a  sufficient  number  of  Baldwin 
apples.  Remove  peel  in  long  strips.  Butter  a  beanpot  and  fill  with  the 
cored  and  sliced  apples,  packed  in  layers.  Sprinkle  each  layer  generously 
with  sugar,  and  sparingly  with  tiny  bits  of  butter,  then  cover  with  strips 
of  peel.  Repeat  until  the  beanpot  is  full.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  two 
hours.  Pour  out,  and  with  a  fork  remove  the  strips  of  peel.  Serve 
heaped  in  sherbet  glasses  and  topped  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream. 


78  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Instead  of  the  usual  watery  mass,  you  will  have  a  rich  red  sauce,  deli- 
cately flavored  with  the  peel,  and  of  about  the  consistency  of  marmalade. 

Steamed  Apple  Sauce. — Pare  and  slice  the  apples  rather  thinner  than 
for  sauce  cooked  in  the  usual  way,  dropping-  into  cold  water  as  you  slice 
them.  Drain,  turn  into  the  inner  vessel  of  a  double  boiler,  and  fit  on  the 
cover.  Fill  the  outer  kettle  with  warm  water  and  bring  to  a  steady  boil. 
Keep  this  up  for  half  an  hour  after  the  boil  begins,  then  lift  the  lid  and 
beat  the  soft  apple  to  a  mush  with  a  spoon.  Close  and  cook  15  minutes 
longer.  Run  through  a  colander  or  a  vegetable  press,  sweeten  to  taste 
while  hot,  and  set  away  to  cool. 

Apple  Slump. — INfake  a  thin  apple  sauce,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  nut- 
meg; have  about  two  quarts  when  done.  Take  pint  flour,  mix  as  for 
biscuit  dough,  drop  the  dough  by  small  spoonfuls  into  the  boiling  sauce, 
after  they  have  risen  and  got  set  turn  over.  When  done  take  dumplings 
out  in  a  deep  dish  and  pour  sauce  over  them;  serve  hot. 

Apple  Butter  Without  Cider. — Procure  a  new  50-pound  lard  can,  eight 
pounds  light  brown  sugar.  Peel  and  slice  the  apples.  Then  commence 
to  fill  the  can,  first  a  layer  of  apples,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  and  so  on 
until  the  can  is  full.  Cover  tightly  and  let  it  stand  12  hours.  Place  on 
stove  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  set  it  back  on  the  stove  until  it  simmers, 
or  boils  gently.  Do  not  take  ofT  lid  for  five  hours.  Then  remove  and 
put  in  ground  cloves  and  cinnamon  to  suit  your  taste. 

Suet  Apple  Dumplings. — One  cup  of  chopped  suet,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  mix  with  cold  water  into  a  dough ;  put  the  apples 
in  as  for  pudding;  tie  in  little  cloths;  drop  into  boiling  water;  boil  one 
hour.     Use  any  sauce,  or  sugar  only. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

BREAD      AND      MUFFINS. 

Here  is  the  recipe  for  making  good  bread,  given  by  the  great  milling 
companies  and  used  by  food  demonstrators :  To  one  quart  of  lukewarm 
liquid — half  water  and  half  milk,  or  water  alone — add  two  half-oance 
compressed  yeast  cakes,  or  the  usual  quantity  of  liquid  yeast,  and  stir 
until  dissolved.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  and  when  well  dissolved  stir  in  with  wooden  spoon  three  quarts 
of  well-sifted  flour,  or  until  dough  is  sufficiently  stiff  to  be  turned  from 
the  mixing  bowl  to  the  molding  board  in  a  mass.  If  shortening  is  desired 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  lard.  Knead  this  dough,  adding  if  necessary 
from  time  to  time,  flour  until  it  becomes  smooth  and  elastic  and  ceases 
to  stick  to  fingers  or  board.  Do  not  make  dough  too  stiff.  Spring  wheat 
flour  needs  a  little  more  working  than  Winter  wheat,  and  should  be  a 
little  softer  to  make  it  rise  properly.  Put  dough  into  well-greased 
earthen  bowl,  brush  lightly  with  melted  butter  or  drippings,  cover  with 
towel  and  set  in  warm  place,  about  75  degrees,  for  two  hours,  or  until 
light,  then  knead  well  and  return  to  bowl,  cover  as  before  and  set  for 
another  hour's  rising,  or  until  light.  When  light,  form  gently  into  loaves 
or  rolls,  place  in  greased  bread  pans,  brush  with  butter  or  drippings, 
cover  again  and  let  stand  for  one  and  one-half  hour,  then  bake.  When 
bread  becomes  stale  it  may  be  made  palatable  again  and  as  good  as 
new,  or  even  better  than  new,  by  wetting  the  old  loaf  with  cold  water, 
putting  in  the  pan  and  rebaking  it  in  the  oven  20  to  45  minutes.  It  will, 
if  originally  good,  come  out  moist  and  fresh. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — Two  cupfuls  Indian  meal ;  one  cupful  whole 
wheat  flour;  one  cupful  sour  milk;  one-third  cupful  molasses;  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda ;  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  and  steam  three  hours, 
then  brown  m  hot  oven  with  the  lid  removed  from  the  can.  There  are 
tin  molds  made  smaller  at  the  bottom  than  the  top,  so  the  loaf  slips  out 
nicely — the  lid  fitting  on  the  outside  of  the  tin  to  prevent  the  water 
getting  in  the  bread,  but  any  small  tin  pail  with  tight  lid  will  answer 
the  purpose.  It  is  better  to  place  an  iron  lid  or  ring  in  the  bottom  of 
the  kettle  to  prevent  the  mold  from  coming  too  close  to  the  fire.  Slice 
around  the  loaf,  not  perpendicularly. 

Easy  Brown  Bread. — For  one  loaf  take  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of  molasses  with  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  thoroughly  stirred  in;  add  one-half  cup  of  white  flour 
and  about  three  cups  oi  graham  flour.     Mix  so  stiff  that  a  little  dough 


80  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

dropped  from  the  spoon  will  not  quickly  settle.  Put  in  a  deep  bread 
pan  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  one  hour.  If  not  stiff  enough, 
the  top  crust  may  separate  from  the  rest  of  the  loaf. 

Entire  Wheat  Bread. — ^One  pint  milk,  scalded  and  cooled,  one  table- 
spoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  cupful  yeast,  about  five 
or  six  cupfuls  whole  wheat  flour.  In  the  morning  mix  in  the  order 
given,  and  knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Let  rise  till  light,  allow  it 
to  rise  a  little  longer,  and  then  bake  a  little  longer,  and  in  an  oven  not 
quite  so  hot,  as  for  white  bread.  Whole-wheat  bread  rises  more  than 
white  bread,  because  the  flour  contains  more  gluten.  Sometimes  we 
make  a  sponge  with  white  flour,  in  the  same  proportion  as  for  ordinary 
bread,  and  then  thicken  and  knead  with  the  entire  wheat  flour. 

Light  Bread. — Into  two  quarts  of  wheat  flour  stir  a  teaspoonful  of 
granulated  sugar  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  sift  into  a  large 
bowl.  Bring  to  the  scalding-point  two  cups  of  milk;  stir  into  this  a 
generous  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and,  when  this  melts,  add  two  cups  of 
boiling  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  set  aside  until  blood-warm, 
then  stir  in  a  gill  of  water  of  the  same  temperature,  in  which  a  half- 
cake  of  compressed  yeast  has  been  thoroughly  dissolved.  Make  a  hollow 
in  the  centre  of  the  sifted  flour  and  pour  in  the  liquid.  Stir  to  a  soft 
dough,  then  turn  upon  a  floured  board  and  knead  for  15  minutes ;  set  in 
a  bread  raiser  in  a  warm  place  for  six  hours  or  until  light.  Make  into 
three  loaves  of  uniform  size,  knead  each  of  these  for  at  least  five  min- 
utes, put  into  a  baking-pan,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  set  to  rise  until  very 
light.     Bake  in  a  steady  oven. 

Oatmeal  Brown  Bread. — Mix  in  a  large  bowl  one  pint  of  Quaker 
oats,  a  rounding  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pint  of  Pettijohn's  breakfast 
food,  half  a  pint  of  whole  wheat  flour  and  half  a  pint  of  yellow  gran- 
ulated cornmeal.  Put  into  another  bowl  one  pint  of  thick  sour  milk  and 
half  a  pint  of  molasses.  Dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  bicarbonate 
of  soda  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water;  add  this  to  the  molasses 
and  sour  milk;  stir  until  foaming;  then  add  it  to  the  dry  ingredients 
and  mix  until  every  grain  is  moistened.  Turn  into  a  greased  mold  and 
boil  or  steam  continuously  for  four  hours.  Stand  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  30  minutes.  It  will  then  be  ready  to  use.  This  may  be  toasted  on 
the  second  day,  or  warmed  over  in  the  oven,  or  it  may  be  used  cold. 
Toasted  it  makes  an  acceptable  breakfast  bread. 

Scotch  Oat  Bread. — To  two  cups  of  steel-cut  oatmeal,  one  teaspoon- 
ful soda  and  one  teaspoonful  salt,  add  two  cups  of  boiling  water;  when 
cool  add  one  cup  of  molasses  and  one  cake  of  yeast.  Stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  mix  stiff  with  wheat  flour.  Shape  into  loaves,  let  rise 
and  bake. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  81 

Salt-Rising  Bread. — Dissolve  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  two  cups 
of  scalding  water,  and  beat  in  gradual!}^  enough  flour  to  make  a  very 
soft  dough.  Beat  for  10  minutes,  cover  and  set  in  a  very  warm  place 
for  eight  hours.  Now  stir  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  into  a  pint  of  lukewarm 
m.ilk  and  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter  before  working  it  into 
the  risen  dough.  Mix  thoroughly,  cover  and  set  again  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise  until  very  light.  Turn  into  a  wooden  bowl  and  knead  in  enough 
flour  to  make  the  batter  of  the  consistency  of  ordinary  bread  dough. 
Make  into  loaves  and  set  these  to  rise,  and  when  light,  bake. 

Sour  Milk  Corn  Bread. — Mix  together  in  a  bowl  three  cupfuls  of 
corn  meal  and  one  cupful  of  graham  flour.  Stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  tablcspoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  two  cupfuls  of  sour  milk. 
Now  beat  in  three  eggs,  whipped  light,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water.  Beat  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  into 
a  greased  mold  with  a  funnel  in  the  center.  Bake  for  an  hour,  or  until 
a  straw  comes   out  clear  from  the  thickest  part  of  the   loaf. 

Spoon  Corn  Bread. — Put  a  quart  of  milk,  or  half  milk  and  half  water, 
in  a  double  boiler.  Add  four  large  kitchen  spoonfuls  of  white  cornmeal, 
and  stir  and  cook  five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool, 
stirring  it  once  or  twice  as  it  cools.  Then  add  two  or  three  eggs  beaten 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wheat  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  well,  then  pour  into  a  greased  baking 
dish,  and  bake  35  minutes.  Serve  immediately  in  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked,  with  a   folded  napkin  wrapped  around  the   dish. 

Susan's  Cornbread. — One  cup  white  flour,  one-half  cup  yellow  corn- 
meal,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder.  Sift  dry  ingredients,  then  mix  with  one  beaten 
tgg  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter,  stirring  in  at  the 
last  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  melted.  Pour  into  a  well- 
greased  shallow  pan  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Crackling  Bread. — One  quart  of  cornmeal^three  pints  make  more 
dough — a  pint  of  buttermilk,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  big  pinch  of  salt, 
a  pint  of  brown  cracklings  left  from  making  lard,  warm  water.  Crush 
the  cracklings  with  a  rolling  pin,  heat  them  and  stir  in  the  dough, 
which  must  be  thick  enough  to  mold  well  (thin  with  the  warm  water). 
Mold  the  bread  with  the  hands  in  small  oblong  pones  about  three  inches 
thick,  putting  the  pones  as  you  mold  them  in  hot,  well-greased  pans. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown. 

Crumb-loaf. — Beat  two  eggs  with  a  pinch  of  salt  added;  add  a  cupful 
of  sweet  milk  and  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Stir  in  enough 
bread  crumbs  to  make  a  medium  thick  batter,  then  add  flour  enough  to 
thicken  like  corn  bread.     Sift  a  teaspoonful   of  baking  powder   in   with 


82  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

the  flour.  Bake  to  a  rich,  crisp  brown  and  serve  hot.  Fine  for  either 
breakfast  or  supper. 

Egg  Bread. — Two  eggs,  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  three  pints  of  corn- 
meal,  one-half  pint  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  sweet 
milk  or  sweet  cream.  Stir  the  soda  in  the  buttermilk  until  it  boils  up, 
mix  the  bread  quickly,  adding  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sweet  milk  or 
sweet  cream  to  make  a  rather  thin  batter;  beat  in  the  eggs,  and  add 
the  lard,  m.elted  and  hot,  last.  Pour  quickly  into  frying  hot  greased 
baking  pans  and  bake  quickly  to  a  delicate  brown.  This  bread  will  be  a 
golden  yellow  and  as  light  as  cake. 

Swedish  Breakfast  Bread. — Add  one-third  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cup 
sugar,  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt  to  one  cup  scalded  milk.  When  luke- 
warm, add  one-third  yeast-cake  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  lukewarm 
milk,  one  ^gg„  well  beaten,  one-half  cup  raisins,  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces, 
and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Cover  and  let  rise  over  night;  in  morn- 
ing cut  down  and  spread  in  buttered  dripping-pan,  one-half  inch  thick. 
Cover  and  let  rise  again.  Before  baking  brush  over  with  beaten  egg  and 
cover  with  the  following  mixture :  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add 
one-third  cup  sugar,  and  one  teaspoon  cinnamon.  When  sugar  is  par- 
tially melted,  add  three  tablespoons  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
cut  in  squares   for  serving. 

Beaten  Biscuits. — One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
lard,  one-half  pint  cold  water.  Put  the  flour  and  salt  in  a  bowl,  rub  the 
lard  in  with  the  hands,  add  the  water  gradually.  Work  and  knead  until 
smooth  and  elastic.  Then  put  the  dough  on  a  block  and  pound  it  with 
a  mallet,  rolling  pin  or  ax  for  one  hour  until  full  of  bubbles.  The  old- 
fashioned  rule  was  to  "hit  it  500  licks."  Form  into  small  round  cakes, 
stick  with  a  fork  here  and  there,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven 
about  20  minutes.  They  should  be  brown  on  top,  white  on  the  sides, 
and    extremely   white    inside. 

Bread-crumb  Biscuits. — Take  one  quart  each  of  bread  crumbs  and 
sour  milk,  add  one-half  cupful  of  lard,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
stiffen  with  flour  in  which  is  put  before  sifting  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
saleratus  and  baking  powder.  Mold,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Be 
sure  to  allow  the  crumbs  to  soak  for  an  hour  in  the  milk  before  adding 
the  other  ingredients. 

Buttermilk  Biscuits. — Two  coffeecupfuls  (even)  of  flour,  half  a  cof- 
feecupful  of  sour  milk,  half  a  coffeecupful  of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful 
of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  sugar,  yeast  powder  and  salt  with 
flour  and  sift;  dissolve  soda  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  beat 
into  the  sour  milk  until  it  stops  "purring,"  mix  quickly  with  dry  ingre- 
dients, using  a  spoon,   turn  on  a  well-floured  board,  pat  with  the  hand 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  83 

into  a  cake  half  an  inch  thick,  roll,  cut  into  biscuits;  bake  in  a  very 
hot  oven  10  minutes. 

French  Biscuits.— One  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  the  stif- 
fly-beaten v^^hite  of  one  ^gg,  one-fourth  cupful  of  thick  sour  milk,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  very  little  hot  water,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  dough  that  may  be  rolled  out.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  cut  into 
large  circles,  and  bake  for  20  minutes. 

jNIartha  Washington  Biscuits. — Sift  one  pint  of  flour  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  baking  powder  and  salt.  Rub 
into  it  one  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Mix  with  one  well-beaten  egg  and  one 
cupful  of  water ;  roll  one-fourth  of  an  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  with 
small  round  cutter.  Fry  in  hot  fat  until  cooked  on  one  side,  turn  and 
brown. 

Molded  Biscuits. — One  quart  of  flour,  into  which  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  one  of  salt  have  been  sifted;  rub  into 
it  a  scant  half  cupful  of  lard  and  butter,  half  and  half;  stir  to  a  dough 
with  enough  milk  to  make  it  just  too  thin  to  roll  out.  Grease  muffin 
rings  and  put  on  a  greased  baking  pan ;  drop  from  a  spoon  dough  enough 
nearly  to  fill  each  ring ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Delicious  tea  cake,  to  be 
eaten  hot  with  butter,  is  made  by  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one 
well-beaten  egg  to  this  recipe  and  baking  in  one  loaf,  or  in  a  large  flat 
cake  to  be  split  open  and  buttered,  then  cut  in  sections. 

Potato  Biscuits. — Pare  and  boil  six  white  potatoes.  While  hot  put 
through  a  ricer,  then  add  gradually  one  pint  of  scalded  milk,  one-half  of 
a  cupful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  sugar  and  one-half 
of  a  cupful  of  flour.  Let  stand  until  lukewarm,  then  add  one  yeast  cake 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water  and  sifted  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Knead  lightly,  using  no  more  flour  than  is  needed  to  keep  from  sticking 
to  the  board.  Cover  and  let  stand  again  until  very  light,  then  form 
into  small  rolls,  handling  most  carefully  and  greasing  the  hands  if  the 
dough  is  inclined  to  stick.  Place  in  greased  pans,  let  stand  until  fully 
doubled  in  bulk,  then  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sour  Cream  Biscuits. — Use  three  good  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  sour 
cream;  put  this  into  a  quart  measure  and  fill  it  two-thirds  full  with 
sweet  milk;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Stir  into  this  enough  flour  to  make 
a  dough  that  will  roll  very  soft;  cut  into  small  biscuits,  brush  well  with 
melted  butter,  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  good  oven. 

Tea  Biscuits. — For  a  six  o'clock  tea,  set  the  batter  about  one  o'clock. 
Add  to  one  quart  sifted  flour  a  teaspoonful  sugar,  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  each  lard  and  butter ;  rub  in  well ;  dissolve  one- 
half  yeast  cake  (compressed)  in  a  little  tepid  water;  add  to  a  cupful 
sweet  milk;  then  mix  well  with  the  flour;  cover  and  set  out  of  a  draught 


84  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

to  rise;  when  light  turn  out  on  the  molding  board,  sprinkle  with  a  very 
little  flour  and  roll  out  to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch;  cut  out  with 
two  sizes  of  round  cutters,  placing  the  smaller  ones  on  top  of  the 
larger,  with  a  brushing  of  melted  butter  between ;  let  stand  about  an 
hour  to  rise,  then  bake.  The  oven  does  not  need  to  be  as  hot  as  for 
baking  powder  biscuit. 

Sugared  Biscuits. — Ordinary  biscuit  dough  is  made,  'rolled  out  as  for 
cutting,  and  then  lightly  spread  with  butter  and  sugar,  creamed  together. 
The  dough  is  then  rolled  up  like  a  jelly  roll,  and  cut  into  slices  like  cin- 
namon buns,  each  biscuit  being  sprinkled  on  top  with  a  little  more 
butter  and  sugar. 

Yarmouth  Biscuit. — Mix  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour, 
one-half  pound  of  sugar  and  one-half  pound  of  currants  to  a  paste  with 
half  a  poimd  of  butter  and  three  eggs.  Roll  out  to  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  in  thickness  and  bake  a  light  brown  in  quick  oven. 

Brioche. — This  is  one  of  the  delicate  breads  that  delight  visitors  in 
France.  One-half  pound  flour,  one  tgg,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  two  ounces 
butter,  one- half  teaspoon  salt,  one-quarter  pint  milk,  one  ounce  yeast. 
Sift  the  flour.  Heat  milk  lukewarm  and  dissolve  in  it  the  butter  and 
yeast.  Add  the  ^gg,  well  beaten,  and  the  salt  and  sugar.  Then  stir 
in  the  flour,  gradually  working  it  all  the  time  with  your  hand.  Beat 
mixture  well  for  10  minutes,  till  the  dough  almost  stops  sticking  to 
your  fingers.  Cover  with  a  cloth  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When 
four  times  its  original  size  turn  it  on  a  floured  board  and  take  pieces 
about  the  size  of  a  turkey's  egg  and  form  into  fancy  shapes,  twists, 
knots,  etc.  Put  in  a  buttered  tin  and  let  rise  15  minutes.  When  risen, 
brush  over  lightly  with  the  egg  beaten  up.  Bake  in  quick  oven  20  min- 
utes. 

Buckwheat  Cake. — This  is  an  old  Canadian  recipe  and  very  good. 
Make  batter  as  for  buckwheat  pancakes,  only  a  trifle  thicker,  and  bake 
in  well-greased  shallow  pan,  like  corn  bread.  There  should  be  a  delicious 
brown   crust   on   the   bottom.     The  prepared   flour   can  be  used. 

Breakfast  Buns. — Scald  one-half  pint  of  milk;  pour  it  over  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  one  quart  of  lukewarm  water;  when  milk  is  luke- 
warm add  the  yeast  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  "sponge."  Let  rise  until 
it  doubles  its  original  bulk,  about  two  hours;  then  cream  together  half 
a  cupful  of  butter  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar;  add  two  well-beaten 
eggs  and  one  cupful  of  scalded  milk.  Mix  this  into  the  sponge  and 
add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough;  knead  lightly,  cover  and  set 
to  rise  until  very  light ;  then  mold  into  small  buns  and  lay  in  greased 
pans,  allowing  plenty  of  room  to  rise;  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  15 
or  20  minutes.    They  must  not  be  heavy  and  doughy. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  '  85 

Hot  Cross  Buns. — Beat  a  quarter  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream ;  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  then  add  gradually  a  pint  of  milk  that  has 
been  scalded  and  cooled;  add  a  yeast  cake,  dissolved,  and  sufficient  flour 
to  make  a  batter.  Beat  thoroughly.  Stand  in  a  warm  place  for  about 
three  hours.  Then  add  four  eggs  well  beaten  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  soft  dough.  Knead  carefully.  Stand  aside  until  very  light  and  form 
into  buns.  Cut  them  in  the  center;  brush  them  with  sugar  and  white  of 
tgg  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

German  Coff^ee  Cake. — Take  enough  dough  after  it  is  mixed  for  one 
loaf  and  add  one  Qgg,  shortening  half  the  size  of  an  ^gg  and  one-half 
cupful  of  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly  through  the  dough  and  add  flour 
enough  to  roll  out  an  inch  thick ;  let  rise  and  wet  the  top  of  it  with 
cold  water,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  bake.  To  be  cut 
in  slices  and  eaten  with  or  without  butter  for  breakfast  with  coffee  and 
put  up  for  the  children's  school  lunches  in  place  of  so  much  rich  cake. 
For  variety  roll  the  dough  quite  thin  and  sprinkle  it  with  currants  well 
cleansed  and  dates  or  figs  cut  in  small  bits ;  then  roll  up  tightly  and 
with  a  sharp  knife  cut  into  slices  one-half  inch  thick,  lay  in  greased 
pans,  let  rise  and  bake  in  moderate  heat. 

Fastnachts. — Mix  to  a  light  sponge  the  following  ingredients :  Three- 
fourths  quart  of  warm  milk,  one-half  pound  of  sifted  flour,  four  ounces 
of  melted  butter,  one  ounce  of  yeast,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg, 
one-half  pound  of  warmed  currants,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  when  light  add 
enough  flour  to  mold  into  biscuits,  place  them  on  baking  tins  and  let 
rise  once  more,  then  rub  over  the  top  with  a  brush  dipped  in  a  well- 
beaten  tgg.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Many  prefer  to  serve  them  warm 
with  butter. 

Bran  Gems. — Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar  and  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  milk, 
then  stir  in  a  pint  of  finely  ground  bran.  Fill  oiled  gem  pans  half  full 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes.  These  gems  are  advised  in  some 
forms   of  indigestion,  where  fine   flour  is   objectionable. 

Corn  Gems. — Sift  together  one  pint  of  cornmeal,  one  pint  of  flour  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Add  one-third  of  a  pint  each  of 
milk  and  water.  Mix  into  a  firm  batter  and  fill  greased  gem  pans  two- 
thirds  full. 

Entire  Wheat  Gems. — Three  cupfuls-  entire  wheat  flour  or  wheat 
meal,  two  cupfuls  cold  water,  half  cupful  of  milk.  Heat  gem  pans  very 
hot  on  the  top  of  the  stove,  fill  them  even  full  of  the  batter,  place  on  the 
grate  of  a  very  hot  oven.  Let  them  remain  10  minutes  on  the  grate, 
then  bake  30  minutes  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven.    They  are  nearly  %s 


86  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

good  if  2^  cupfitls  of  water  and  no  milk  is  used.  Do  not  use  any  salt, 
or  they  will  not  be  so  light. 

Puff  Gems. — Beat  very  light  one  egg,  then  add  to  it  one-quarter  cup- 
ful sugar,  two  tablespoon fuls  of  melted  butter,  one  cupfuF  of  sour  milk. 
Beat  all  well.  Then  add  one  cupful  of  cornmeal  and  one  cupful  of 
white  flour  into  which  has  been  well  mixed  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder.  Lastly  dissolve  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  boiling  water,  add,  beat  well  and  pour  in  gem  pans,  and 
bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Golden  Johnny  Cake. — Heat  to  scalding  point  one  pint  of  sweet  milk; 
while  hot  stir  into  it  one  teaspoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  white  su- 
gar and  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  steamed  squash  out  of  which  all 
water  has  been  pressed.  Sift  together  two  cupfuls  cornmeal,  one  cup- 
ful flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  and  a  scant  tea- 
spoonful salt.  Add  to  this,  gradually,  the  milk  and  squash,  as  soon  as  It 
IS  lukewarm.  Bake  in  one  greased  pan,  or  in  gem  pans  if  preferred.  If 
it  seems  stiff  a  little  more  milk  may  be  added.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Meal  varies  so  that  it  is  hard  to  give  the  exact  quantity. 

Oatmeal  Gems, — Separate  two  eggs ;  beat  the  yolks  for  a  moment ;  add 
a  half  pint  of  milk,  then  one  and  one-half  cup  of  bread  flour,  and  beat 
thoroughly;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  a  half-teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  cup  of  left-over  oatmeal  porridge  and  one  rounding  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  Beat  for  about  two  minutes.  Fold  in  carefully  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  this  mixture  into  12  greased  gem 
pans  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  20  minutes. 

Popovers. — To  make  them  without  baking  powder  beat  three  eggs 
until  very  light,  then  add  two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Stir  in  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  and  see  that  the  batter 
is  very  smooth;  then  add  one  additional  cupful  of  milk  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  melted.  Heat  the  pop-over  irons  or  cups, 
and  when  they  are  very  hot  nearly  fill  with  the  batter.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  for  half  an  hour.  To  make  pop-overs  with  baking  powder  re- 
quires one  G^gg,  well  beaten,  one  large  spoonful  of  melted  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  1^  cupful  of  flour, 
salt,    and    one-fourth    teaspoonful    of   baking    powder. 

Popovers  Without  Eggs. — One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  water,  no  salt 
and  no  baking  powder.  The  gem  pans  are  heated,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut  being  put  to  melt  in  each  little  pan  while  the  batter  is 
beaten  up.  The  oven  must  be  good,  with  steady  heat,  and  the  door 
must  not  be  opened  for  25  minutes  after  the  popovers  are  put  in,  or 
they  will  fall.  Salt  will  prevent  them  from  rising,  but  if  made  accord- 
ing to  directions,  they  will  be  very  light,    f\9-\ix  f-nou^h  for  drop  batter. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  87 

Breakfast  Rolls. — Three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  butter  or 
lard ;  dissolve  one  yeast  cake  in  a  cup  of  warm  water,  mix  with  flour 
enough  to  make  dough.  Let  rise  over  night,  in  the  morning  add  one 
egg,  knead  thoroughly,  let  rise  again,  and  when  light  make  out  in  rolls. 
Flace  in  pans,  keep  warm,  and  bake  when  very  light. 

Buttermilk  Muffins. — A  quart  of  fresh  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiflf  batter  and  two 
or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little 
of  the  buttermilk,  then  add  to  the  rest;  add  salt  and  cream  and  the 
flour.     Bake  in  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven. 

Bread  Sponge  Muffins. — Late  in  the  evenmg  set  a  sponge  as  for 
water  bread,  allowing  a  pint  of  warm  water  for  a  dozen  muffins,  a 
third  of  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  and  a  pinch  of  "salt.  Mix  the  bat- 
ter a  little  thicker  than  for  pancakes  and  beat  thoroughly.  In  the 
morning  have  gem  pans  greased,  and  in  cold  weather  warm  them;  pour 
in  the  batter  without  stirring,  filling  half  full ;  let  them  rise  at  least  an 
hour  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Cape  Cod  Muffins. — Sift  two  cupfuls  of  flour  with  two  teaspoonfuK 
of  baking  powder,  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  rounded  teaspoonful 
of  sugar.  Beat  three  eggs  without  separating;  add  to  them  i]^  cupful 
of  milk  and  stir  the  milk  and  eggs  into  the  flour.  Have  ready  a  cupful 
of  carefully-cleaned  blueberries  and  stir  them  lightly  into  the  mixture. 
Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans  in  a  quick  oven  for  15  minutes. 

Cream  of  Wheat  Muffins. — Add  to  two  cupfuls  of  cooked  cream  of 
wheat,  a  cupful  of  milk  and  work  it  smooth,  then  two  eggs  well  beaten 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  to  a  pint  of  flour  add  two  small  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  rub  into  the 
flour  a  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter;  add  to  these  ingredients  the  wheat 
that  has  been  mixed  with  the  milk  and  eggs.  Butter  muffin  pans,  fill  them 
two-thirds  full,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes. 

Crumb  Muffins. — Scraps  of  stale  bread,  toasted  in  the  oven  until 
crisp,  find  many  uses.  We  run  them  through  the  food  chopper  until  fine 
enough  for  use.  If  these  crumbs  are  sifted,  the  fine  particles  will  be 
found  very  nice  for  muffins  and  griddle  cakes.  For  muffins,  use  one 
egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  half  that 
of  baking  powder,  two  cupfuls  of  the  crumbs  and  one  of  flour;  mix 
with  water  or  sweet  milk  and  bake  slowly  in  gem  pans.  For  griddle 
cakes  use  two  cupfuls  of  crumbs  to  one  of  self-raising  buckwheat  flour. 

English  Muffins. — Dissolve  half  of  a  compressed  yeast  cake  in  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  lukewarm  water.  Have  a  pint  of  milk  scalding  hot 
and  stir  into  it  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  lard.  Boil  until  the  lard  is  dis- 
solved, then  take  from  the  fire  and,  when  the  milk  is  blood  warm,  stir  it 


88  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

gradually  into  a  pint  of  flour  that  has  been  sifted  with  two  saltspoonfuls 
of  salt.  When  the  milk  is  all  worked  in,  add  the  dissolved  yeast  cake, 
and  blend  thoroughly.  Turn  the  batter  into  a  bread  raiser  and  set  to 
rise  in  a  moderately  warm  room  for  six  or  eight  hours,  or  until  light. 
When  light,  turn  the  mass-  out  upon  a  floured  pastry  board  and  break 
off  bits  of  the  dough,  having  them  of  uniform  size,  and  each  about  as 
large  as  an  ordinary  tea  biscuit.  Handle  very  lightl}^,  and  roll  each 
muffin  in  flour.  Have,  a  soaps.tone  griddle  thoroughly  heated  and  lay 
these  muffins  upon  it.  Bake  them  without  touching  until  they  swell  to 
twice  their  original  size.  When  brown  on  tbe  under  side  lift  carefully 
and  turn.  When  the  other  side  is  baked  to  a  delicate  brown,  the  muf- 
fins are  done.  When  ready  to  use,  tear  them  open,  toast  and  butter 
generously. 

Parker  House  Rolls. — Scald  one  pint  of  milk  with  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  ^gg  added.  Put  the  milk  into  a  bread  pan  with  one  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  When  the  milk  has  cooled  a 
trifle,  sift  in  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Now  add  one  cake 
of  yeast  and  beat  well,  then  add  flour  to  make  a  soft  loaf  and  knead 
thoroughly.  Let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  little  kneading  is 
required.  Roll  out  this  and  cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter.  Brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  lap  one-half  over  the  other,  put  in  a  pan  not  too  close 
together,  and  when  very  light,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Quick  Cinnamon  Rolls. — Sift  together  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Into  this  rub 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Mix  with  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll 
out  to  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  spread  with  warmed  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon 
and  scatter  over  one-half  cup  of  seeded  raisins.  Roll  up  as  for  jelly 
cake  and  cut  into  inch  slices ;  place  so  as  they  will  touch  in  a  pan  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Scotch  Scones. — Take  two  pounds  of  fine  oatmeal,  a  tablespoonful 
of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Rub  the  lard  into  the  oatmeal  and  add  the  salt  and  water.  In  rolling 
the  palm  of  the  hand  should  be  used  instead  of  a  rollirig-pin.  Press  the 
dough  into  a  round  cake  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  seg- 
ments and  cook  on  a  griddle  over  a  slow  fire  until  a  light  brown.  Oat- 
meal   scones    properly    prepared    will    keep    for    weeks. 

Boston  Tea  Cakes. — Beat  two  eggs  in  a  teacup,  fill  the  cup  with  sweet 
milk,  turn  into  a  bowl  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  10  even  teaspoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  1^  cupful  of  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der. This  is  the  most  reliable,  easily  made  and  accommodating  of  cakes. 
Delicious  baked  in  layers  and  spread  with  jam  or  cream.  May  be  baked 
in  a  loaf  or  small  patty  pans.     Serve  warm  with  tea. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  89 

English  Tea  Cake. — Sift  four  cupfuls  of  dried  flour  into  a  bowl  and 
chop  into  it  a  scant  cupful  of  butter.  Dissolve  half  a  yeast  cake  in  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water  and  stir  it  into  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  or 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  this  out  into  a  sheet  and  cut  into 
cakes  as  large  as  a  tea  plate  and  less  than  half  an  inch  thick.  Set  them, 
covered  lightly,  in  a  warm  place  until  they  have  nearly  trebled  in  thick- 
ness. Bake  in  a  floured  pan.  Keep  them  covered  for  20  minutes,  then 
brown.  Run  a  sharp  knife  around  the  edge,  tear  the  cake  open,  butter 
and  serve  upon  a  plate  lined  and  covered  with  a  heated  napkin. 

Zimmet-Kuchen. — Two  cupfuls  of  bread  sponge,  one  egg,  half  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  cupful  of  warm  water. 
Mix  these  ingredients  together  and  make  a  dough  not  quite  as  stiff  as 
for  bread.  Let  it  rise  well,  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick,  let  it  rise  again 
until  quite  light.  Spread  the  dough  thinly  and  evenly  in  a  long  shallow 
tin.  Cover  with  an  tg^  beaten  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 
sprinkle  liberally  with  powdered  cinnamon  and  granulated  sugar.  The 
ingredients  on  the  kuchen  will  melt  and  run  together  into  a  delicious  can 
died   top.     Serve   by   cutting   into   strips    one   inch    wide. 

Butter  Cakes. — Sift  two  cupfuls  of  floor  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Rub  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  and  add  gradually  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  milk.  Toss 
upon  a  well-floured  board  and  roll  out  as  thick  as  though  you  were 
making  biscuit,  then  cut  into  rounds  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter  and  bake 
upon  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle.  Cook  slowly  until  they  puff  up  double 
their  size,  then  turn  and  bake  on  the  other  side.  Set  them  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  a  few  minutes  before  serving,  then  break  them  open  and  serve 
with  butter  and  maple  syrup. 

Waffles. — For  the  batter  use  one  pint  of  sifted  flour,  one  level  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  but- 
ter, melted,  two  eggs  and  1^  cupful  milk;  beat  to  a  smooth  batter.  ^  Heat 
the  waffle  iron  very  hot;  grease  both  lids;  put  a  cooking  spoonful  of 
batter  into  each  lid,  and  cook  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Slip  out  on  to  a 
hot  dish.  Place  in  the  oven  until  more  are  cooked,  then  put  them  one 
on  top  of  the  other,  each  buttered  and  heaped  with  grated  maple   sugar. 


CHAPTER  VTII. 

CAKES. 

"Breathes  there  a  man  with  soul  so  dead 
He   loves   not   new-baked   ginger   bread? 
Who,   stepping  through   the   liitchen   door, 
On   baking  day    sees  goodly   store 
Of  fragrant   amber-shadowed   cake, 
And,  half-unconscious,  does  not  break 
A  ragged  chunk  !     Ah,  toothsome  bliss  ! 
He  is  a  churl  who  knows  not  this." 

To  get  a  fine  grained  cake,  beat  thoroughly  after  the  flour  is  added. 
Sweet  milk  makes  cake  that  cuts  like  pound  cake.  Sour  milk  makes 
spongy,  light  cake.  Always  sift  flour  before  measuring,  then  it  may  be 
sifted  again  with  the  baking  powder  to  insure  their  being  thoroughly 
blended.  In  making  fruit  cakes  add  the  fruit  before  putting  in  the  flour, 
as  this  will  prevent  it  falling  to  the  bottom  of  the  cake.  Flouring  "the 
fruit  is  unnecessary,  unless  the  fruit  is  damp.  If  a  cake  cracks  open 
while  baking,  the  recipe  contains  too  much  flour.  In  creaming  butter 
and  sugar,  when  the  butter  is  too  hard  to  blend  easily,  warm  the  bowl 
and  if  necessary  warm  the  sugar,  but  never  warm  the  butter,  as  this  will 
change  both  texture  and  flavor  of  the  cake.  The  smaller  the  cake  the 
hotter  should  be  the  oven.  Large  rich  cakes  require  very  slow  baking. 
Grease  cake  pans  with  lard  or  drippings,  as  butter  will  be  likely  to  make 
the  cake  stick,  owing  to  the  salt  in  it. 

When  eggs  are  short  in  the  Winter  snow  may  be  used  as  a  substitute; 
one  of  The  R.  N.-Y.  housewives  says  that  one  cupful  of  snow,  beaten  in 
after  all  the  ingredients  are  put  together,  is  equal  to  two  eggs. 

Almond  Cookies. — Cream  together  one-half  cupful  of  butter  and  two 
cupfuls  sugar.  Stir  in  alternately  a  little  at  a  time  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk  and  twice  sifted  flour  to  make  a  dough  which  can  be  handled.  With 
the  last  of  the  flour  sift  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  roll  out 
one-quarter  inch  thick;  before  cutting  out  sprinkle  with  a  cup  of  almonds 
which  have  been  blanched  and  chopped  and  a  teaspoon  of  granulated 
sugar  mixed  through  them.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  These  should  be  eaten 
fresh,  as  should  all  cakes  made  without  the  addition  of  eggs. 

Angel  Cake. — Four  ounces  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  12 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  the  whites  of  11  eggs  beaten  to  a  very  stiff 
froth  (flavor  with  rose  before  beating),  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar 
and  a  little  salt.  Mix  the  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  cream  of  tartar  together 
and  sift  through  a  very  fine  sieve  six  times.     Then   stir  in  lightly  the 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  91 

beaten  whites.  Bake  in  a  neiv  pan,  without  greasing,  for  40  minutes. 
After  taking  from  the  oven,  invert  the  pan  and  place  upon  cups  or 
tumblers  until  the  cake  is  cold,  then  remove  and  cover  with  a  thin  icing. 
No  soda  is  used.  A  pan  with  a  tin  tube  in  the  center  is  preferable  for 
baking. 

Angel  Cake  No.  2. — Take  the  whites  of  nine  large  eggs.  Add  to 
them  a  pinch  of  salt  and  whip  them  lightly  until  they  are  partly  stiff, 
then  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  whip  them  until  very 
stifif.  Fold  in  carefully  one  and  one-fourth  cupful  of  granulated  sugar 
that  has  been  sifted  three  times.  Sift  one  cupful  of  the  best  pastry 
flour  seven  times  (if  you  want  a  perfect  cake),  and  fold  it  into  the 
sugar  and  whipped  eggs  lightly.  Last  of  all,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Turn  the  cake  into  a  large,  unbuttered  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
even  from  35  to  50  minutes.  Never  open  the  oven  door  until  you  think 
the  cake  is  done,  as  it  falls  very  easily.  On  taking  it  from  the  oven 
turn  it  upside  down  in  such  a  way  that  current  of  air  will  pass  under 
it  until  it  is  cold.  When  cold  loosen  the  cake  from  the  sides  of  the  pan 
and  lift  it  out.  It  should  be  so  delicately  baked  that  this  will  not  be 
difficult.  If  you  intend  to  ice  it  cover  it  with  a  soft  uncooked  icing 
made  with  powdered  sugar,  white  of  tgg  and  a  very  little  vanilla. 
Angel  cake  is  generally  better  for  being  kept  a  day  before  serving.  If  it 
is  a  little  tough  place  it  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover  with  a  plate.  Let  it 
stand  for  two  or  three  days  in  this  way  and  it  will  become  tender. 

Apple  Cake. — Measure  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  add  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sift  again  into 
a  mixing  bowl;  make  a  well  in  the  center;  beat  whites  of  two  and  yolk 
of  one  egg  until  light,  add  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter  and  a  cupful  of  milk;  mix  this  gradually  into  the  flour 
until  you  have  a  thick  batter  or  very  soft  dough.  Spread  this  on  shallow, 
well-buttered  tins,  having  batter  not  more  than  half  an  inch  thick.  Pare 
and  cut  into  eighths  enough  large,  tart  apples  to  cover  the  top  of  the 
cake  by  laying  the  pieces  close  together  in  rows,  pressing  the  sharp  edges 
into  the  dough;  brush  well  with  softened  but  not  melted  butter,  sprinkle 
thickly  with  granulated  sugar  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done  dust 
with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

Dutch  Apple  Cake. — Measure  a  pint  of  sifted  flour,  add  half  a  level 
teaspoonful  salt,  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  scant  teaspoonful 
of  soda.  Sift  three  tim.es.  Beat  up  one  egg  with  a  cupful  of  sour  milk. 
Rub  a  third  of  a  cupful  of  butter  into  the  flour  thoroughly ;  then  mix 
in  the  liquid,  making  a  soft  dough.  Spread  this  half  an  inch  thick  in  a 
well-greased  biscuit  pan.  Pare  and  core  five  juicy,  nicely-flavored  apples, 
and  cut  them  into  eighths;  arrange  them  in  parallel  rows,  sharp  edges 
down,   on  top   of   the   dough,   pressing   down    so   that   they   are   partially 


92  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

imbedded  in  the  dough.  Sprinkle  over  thickly  with  sugar  and  a  little 
cinnamon  and  spread  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  25 
minutes.  Serve  hot  as  a  dessert  or  tea  cake.  Made  with  fresh,  ripe 
peaches  cut  in  quarters,  it  is  delicious.  Omit  the  cinnamon  when  peaches 
are  used. 

Apple  Kuchen. — ^One  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  an  tgg,  a  cupful 
of  milk,  two  tablesponfuls  of  butter,  four  large  apples.  Sift  salt,  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour  and  rub  in  the  butter.  Put  the 
beaten  egg  into  the  milk  and  mix  with  the  flour.  Spread  the  dough 
one-half  inch  thick  on  a  buttered  pan.  Cut  the  pared  apples  in  eighths 
and  stick  into  the  dough  in  rows.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  25 
minutes. 

Apple  Layer  Cake. — One  cupful  of  sugar  creamed  with  half  a  cupful 
of  butter;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  milk, 
two  cupfuls  of  flour,  with  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted 
through  it.  One  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  almond  extract  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  three  layers.  When  cold  spread  with  this 
mixture :  Peel  and  grate  four  large  apples,  beat  into  them  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  two  whipped  eggs.  Pour 
into  a  porcelain  saucepan  and  stir  steadily  over  a  moderate  fire  until  the 
mixture  has  boiled  one  minute.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  lemon  juice,  a  dash  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  minced  almonds.  Cool  it  and  build  the  cake,  sprinkling 
the  top  with  powdered  sugar.  Cap  the  top  generously  with  whipped 
cream,  flavored,  and  serve  at  the  table. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  shortening,  one  saltspoon 
salt,  J^  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i^  teaspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  V/i  cup  raisins,  more  fruit  if  desired;  one  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  water,  one  cup  unsweetened  apple  sauce.  Put  the 
dissolved  soda  into  the  sauce,  let  it  foam  over  the  ingredients ;  1^  cup 
flour;  bake  45  minutes. 

Apricot  Shortcake. — Drain  the  juice  away  from  the  fruit,  and  cut  it 
in  small  pieces.  Set  in  a  warm  place  and  proceed  to  mix  the  cake.  This 
calls  for  one  cupful  of  flouf,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  sifted  together. 
Into  this  work  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  three-fourths  of  a. 
cupful  of  milk,  and  stir  into  a  light  dough.  Roll  in  a'  floured  bowl,  and 
when  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick  cut  into  generous  squares.  Brush 
the  squares  with  melted  butter,  lay  one  on  top  of  the  other,  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven.  When  done  separate  the  pieces,  sprejid  the  fruit  between  the 
layers  and  on  top,  and  pile  whipped  cream  over  all.  A  sweet  sauce  which 
may  be  served  with  the  shortcake  is  made  by  adding  to  a  cupful  of  the 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  93 

fruit  juice  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  wet  in  a  little  water  and 
boiled  for  a  few  minutes.  A  tablespoonful  of  butter  is  melted  into  the 
sauce  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  is   added  just  before  serving. 

Bath  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two-thirds  of 
a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  cups 
of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
of  baking  soda.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  square,  shallow  tins  (two 
will  be  required).  These  cakes  should  be  iced  in  the  tins,  while  warm, 
and  glazed  in  a  hot  oven.  Then  score  the  icing  (without  cutting  the 
cake  or  allowing  the  icing  to  harden)  into  two-inch  squares,  placing  in 
the  center  of  each  square  one-half  of  an  English  walnut.  Set  away 
in  tins  in  a  cool  place  until  thoroughly  cold,  when  the  squares  may  be 
cut  out.     These   little   cakes   look   very  pretty   and   are   quite   a   delicacy. 

Black  Angel  Cake. — One  tgg,  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  half  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  one -third  cake  Baker's  unsweetened  chocolate.  Cook 
these  ingredients  till  it  thickens  and  let  cool  while  making  the  cake  part 
as  follows :  One  cupful  of  sugar,  half  cupful  butter  creamed,  two  eggs 
beaten  separctely,  half  cupful  sweet  milk,  two  cupfuls  flour,  half  tea- 
spoonful soda  in  the  milk  (do  not  use  any  cream  of  tartar),  half 
teaspoonful  vanilla.  ]\Iix  the  cake  thoroughly,  then  add  the  chocolate 
paste  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  put  together  with  white 
icing.     This  is  a  delicious  cake. 

Black  Cake,  Inexpensive. — Beat  one  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar  until  creamy;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  cold 
cofTee,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins, 
one  cup  of  currants,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  shredded  and  a  tea- 
spoonful each  of  ground  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon  sifted  with  four 
cups  of  browned  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mix 
the  fruit  in  with  the  butter  and  sugar  instead  of  flouring  it  to  prevent 
the  fruit  from  sinking  when  brown  flour  is  used  in  the  cake.  A  little 
flour  may  be  required  to  make  the  batter  stiff,  as  browning  the  flour 
lessens  the  thickening  property. 

Blackberry  Jam  Cake. — One  and  one-quarter  cupful  of  sugar;  one- 
half  cupful  butter;  four  eggs;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  loppered  milk;  one 
small  teaspoonful  soda;  two  cupfuls  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon; 
one  quarter  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Stir  in  one  cupful  of  blackberry  jam. 
Bake  in  layers.     Put  together  with  a  white  frosting. 

Blueberry  Cakes. — INfeasure  three  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  add  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  sift  well  together.  Beat  one  tgg  until  light;  add 
1^2  cupful  of  milk.  Make  a  well  in  the  center  of  the  flour  and  gradually 
pour  in  the  liquid,  stirring  in  the  flour.  In  this  way  you  can  keep  the 
batter   smooth.      Make   it   to   the   consistency   of   cake   batter.     Melt   two 


94  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  add  to  the  batter;  then  two  cupfuls  of 
floured  blueberries.  Bake  in  the  little  custard  cups  or  muffin  rings, 
allowing  a  little  longer  time  than  for  plain  muffins.  Blackberries  are 
nice  used  in  this  way. 

Bohemian  Butter  Kuchen. — Dissolve  one  cake  of  dry  yeast  in  a  half 
cup  of  warm  milk;  then  add  another  cup  of  warm  milk,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  beat  to  a  smooth  batter;  let 
rise  till  very  light.  Cream  together  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  two  eggs  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Add  this  to  the  sponge 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  rise  again  to  double  its 
size;  divide  into  three  parts  (handle  as  little  as  possible).  Put  each  part 
in  a  shallow  buttered  pan  and  let  rise  again  to  double  its  height.  Pour 
over  each  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon.     Bake  25  minutes. 

Brownie's  Cake. — One  cupful  of  brown  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream  with 
half  a  cupful  of  butter;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  an<l 
half  a  cupful  of  strong  cold  coffee.  Ground  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice 
and  nutmeg  to  taste ;  2>^  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  and  last  of  all  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  folded  in.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  fill  in  and  ice  with  dark 
caramel  icing,  made  as  follows :  Put  four  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream  or  rich  milk  and  boil  until  it  will 
thread  from  a  spoon.  Take  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  nearly  cold  and 
then  put  between  the  layers  and  over  the  cake. 

Butter  Cookies. — Cream  together  one  cupful  of  butter  and  one-half 
cupful  of  light  brown  sugar;  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  one 
well-beaten  tgg.  Slowly  stir  in  two  cupfuls  of  flour.  ]\Iold  lightly  with 
the  hand.  Take  out  a  small  portion  of  the  dough  each  time;  roll  as  thin 
as  a  silver  dollar,  cut  the  cookies  with  a  cutter  no  larger  than  the  dollar. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  golden  brown.  This  will  make  one 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  rich,  crisp  cookies. 

Butternut  Cake. — Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream.  Gradually 
beat  in  ^  of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  then  one  cup  of  butternut 
meats  and  one  tgg  beaten  without  separating.  Sift  together  two  cups  of 
entire  wheat  flour,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  pastry  flour,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful soda,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  mace,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  cloves,  and  ^  teaspoonful  cinnamon.  Add  this  to 
the  first  mixture  alternately  with  one  cup  of  sour  milk.  Beat  thoroughly 
and  turn  into  little  tins  fitted  with  rounds  of  paper  on  the  bottoms  and 
thoroughly  buttered.  Bake  about  25  minutes.  The  recipe  makes  18 
cakes.  When  cold,  ice  with  the  icing  made  6i  brown  sugar,  and  deco- 
rate with  halves  of  butternut  meats.  The  icing  is  made  as  follows: 
Boil  one  cup   of  brown   sugar   and   one-third   cup   of  water   to   240   de- 


THE    RURAL     COOK    BOOK.  95 

grees  Fahrenheit.  Then  pour  in  a  fine  stream  on  to  the  white  of  one 
egg,  beaten  very  light.  Continue  the  beating  while  the  syrup  is  being 
added  to  the  egg  and  for  some  minutes  afterward.  Without  a  ther- 
mometer, to  decide  the  temperature,  boil  the  sugar  until  it  spins  a  thread 
about  three  inches  in  length. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  cocoa, 
one  cup  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder ;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  vanilla,  a  good  cup  and  one-half  of  flour.  If  it  is  not  the 
proper   consistency,   then   add   a   little   more   flour. 

Chocolate  Cream  Cake. — Use  any  good  cake  recipe  and  bake  in  a 
square  pan.  When  cold  cover  with  the  following  icing:  To  one  and  one- 
half  cupful  of  sugar  add  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Place  on  stove 
and  cook,  after  it  begins  to  boil,  for  four  minutes.  Do  not  stir  it.  Pour 
cut  on  a  platter  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  the  cake. 
While  making  this  frosting  have  one  and  one-half  square  of  chocolate 
melting,  and  after  covering  the  cake  with  the  frosting  spread  the  choco- 
late smoothly  over  it. 

Coffee  Cake. — Cream  one-quarter  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of  sugar, 
add  one  tgg  beaten,  one-half  cup  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Spread 
in  pan  and  sprinkle  with  seeded  and  cleaned  raisins  or  currants,  a  little 
shredded  citron,  dot  with  butter  and  sift  over  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake 
one-half  hour  and  serve  hot. 

Coffee  Chocolate  Cake. — Cream  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of 
butter;  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of  strong  cold  coffee. 
Sift  in  V/i  cup  of  flour  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Lastly 
stir  in  1^^  square  of  melted  chocolate.  Bake  in  a  loaf  and  ice  with  whitf 
frosting. 

Coffee  Fruit  Cake. — This  requires  neither  eggs  nor  milk.  One-half 
cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  cold 
strong  coffee,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  cup  rai- 
sins, one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful nutmeg.  Flour  for  thick  batter,  adding  one  level  teaspoonful  baking 
powder.  For  frosting  without  eggs,  use  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar, 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  milk;  boil  four  or  five  minutes  till  it  threads  from 
the  spoon.  Flavor  as  desired.  Add  chocolate  or  not.  Stir  till  right 
thickness  for  spreading.  This  is  fine-grained,  white  (if  chocolate  is  not 
used)   and  delicious. 

Cornstarch  Cake. — Two  cups  of  white  sugar  and  one  cup  of  butter 
creamed  together.  One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten 
very  stiff,  one  cup  of  cornstarch,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  and  two  of  extract  of  lemon.  Bake  slowly  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


96  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Crullers,  Chocolate. — Two  eggs  beaten  until  they  are  creamy  and  then 
beaten  into  one  cupful  sugar,  adding  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one 
half  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  cinnamon,  one  square  grated  chocolate. 
Mix  well  and  then  add  one  cupful  'sweet  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour 
sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Roll  out  one-fourth  inch 
thick,  cut,  cook  to  a  golden- brown  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Roll  in  powdered 
sugar  when  cool. 

Crullers,  Olive  Oil. — To  one-half  cup  of  sugar  add  two  tablespoons  of 
oil,  two  beaten  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon  and  a  little  nutmeg;  add  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  alternately  with  one-fourth  cup  of  milk. 
Roll  out,  cut  and  fry  as  usual.  In  frying  them  let  the  oil  get  just  hot 
enough  to  smoke. 

Date  Cake. — Two  cupfuls  sugar,  one  cupful  shortening,  creamed  to- 
gether, three  eggs,  well  beaten  into  sugar  and  shortening,  three  teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder,  3yi  cupfuls  flour.  To  this  add  one  cupful  of  stoned 
and  finely-chopped  dates,  floured.  Bake  in  five  layers  and  put  together 
Vv'ith   plain  or  boiled  icin* 

Dolly  Varden  Cake. — Cream  one-half  cup  butter  with  one  cup  sugar. 
Add  one-half  cup  milk  alternately  with  one  and  one-half  cup  of  flour 
in  which  has  been  mixed  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Lastly  fold 
in  the  dry-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in  loaf 
for  one-half  hour  in  a  moderately  quick  oven.  For  icing  make  a  syrup 
of  one  and  one-half  cup  sugar  and  eight  tablespoonfuls  water.  Boil, 
when  this  strings  from  spoon,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs 
and  continue  beating  for  one-half  hour.  Flavor  like  cake  and  pour 
thickly  over  the  cake. 

Doughnuts,  Best.— One  tgg  beaten  light;  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  a 
little  salt;  one  cupful  of  sour  milk  sweetened  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard;  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Fry  in  hot  lard,  and  dust  with  cinnamon  and  granulated  sugar.  These 
doughnuts  are  light  and  wholesome. 

Doughnuts,  Potato. — Two  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  (hot),  four  ta- 
blespoonfuls of  shortening,  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  five  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  three  cupfuls  milk,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  lastly 
flour  enough  to  stiffen.  Make  a  cream  of  potatoes,  shortening,  sugar  and 
eggs,  then  add  milk,  salt  and  nutmeg,  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder, 
and  cook  in  boiling  lard. 

Dried  Apple  Cake. — Soak  the  dried  apples  over  night  and  in  the  morn- 
ing chop  fine,  having  two  cupfuls;  then  simmer  in  two  cupfuls  of  molasses 
until  apples  are  soft.  Cream  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  a  scant  cupful 
of  butter;  add  three  well  beaten  eggs;  then  the  apples  and  molasses; 
half  a  pound  of  raisins  seeded,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  sifted  with    two 


THE    RURAL     COOK    BOOK.  97 

tcaspoonfuls  baking  powder  and  half  a  teaspoonfiil  each  of  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  grated  nutmeg.  Bake  in  very  moderate  oven  as  you  would 
fruit  cake. 

Dutch  Cake. — Take  two  pounds  of  raised  bread  dough,  one  pint  of 
sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter  (or  more  if  it  is  to  be  made  quite  rich), 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  pound  of  large 
laisins.  ]Mix  well  and  put  in  a  greased  pan.  Let  it  rise  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  the  loaf  is  nearly  double  its  original  size, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  is  very  good  when  fresh ;  if  we  wish 
to  make  it  richer  we  use  an  tgg,  which  is  mixed  in  with  the  butter.  Us- 
ing currants  instead  of  raisins,  we  have  the  English  currant  loaf.  The 
same  recipe  makes  very  nice  buns. 

Election  Cake. — Rub  into  half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour  five  ounces  of 
butter,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one  cupful  of  sugar;  mix.  Scald  two 
cupfuls  of  miilk,  and  when  lukewarm  add  one  yeast  cake  dissolved,  and 
two  eggs  well  beaten.  Make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the  flour,  pour  in 
the  milk  mixture,  stir  in  a  little  of  the  flour;  cover  and  stand  aside  for 
three  hours.  Then  beat  in  all  the  flour,  add  the  juice  of  three  oranges, 
a  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated;  turn  into  a 
greased  round  pan  and,  when  very  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
one  hour. 

Eggless  Cake. — Beat  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  butter 
to  a  cream;  add  a  cupful  of  miilk,  measure  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour, 
add  three  tcaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg  and  a  pinch  of  cloves.  Sift 
several  times  until  the  flour  is  light  and  fluffy,  then  stir  into  the  other 
materials,  add  cupful  seeded  floured  raisins.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Eggless  Cake  with  Oil- — Cream  one-half  cup  oil  and  one  cupful  sugar, 
one  cupful  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cas- 
sia and  cloves,  one-half  cupful  chopped  raisins  (if  desired)  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt,  two  cupfuls  warmed  flour.  Be  sure  not  to  forget  the 
salt,  as  the  oil  contains  none.  This  must  always  be  remembered ;  in  using 
the  oil  add  twice  as  much  salt  as  common. 

Eggless  Fruit  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
buttermilk,  two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  cup  of  raisins  (seeded  and 
chopped),  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
cne-half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream; 
dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  it  into  the  milk,  and  add 
next  the  spices.  Flour  the  raisins  and  add  them  last.  Bake  in  a  well-but- 
tered tin,  on  the  bottom  of  v/hich  place  a  clean  white  paper,  also  well 
buttered. 

Layer  Cake  Without  Eggs. — One  cupful  of  sugar,  quarter  of  a  cupful 
of  butter,   one   cupful   of    sweet   milk,   one   teaspoonful   of    soda,   two   of 


98  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

cream  of  tartar,  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  made  smooth  in  a  little 
milk,  two  cupfuls  of  flour.  Bake  in  thin  sheets  and  put  together  with 
boiled  sugar  frosting,  jelly,  cocoanut  or  any  other  rich  filling  desired, 
finish  the  top  with  the  boiled  sugar  frosting  made  by  boiling  together  a 
cupful  of  sugar  and  one  of  water  until  it  will  turn  creamy  white  and 
thick  on  being  stirred.  This  is  quite  as  delicious  as  the  frosting  made 
from  the  whites  of  eggs. 

Noel  Fruit  Cake. — This  contains  neither  butter  nor  eggs.  One  pound 
fat  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  one  cupful  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  New  Or- 
leans molasses  in  which  is  dissolved  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  pound 
each  of  raisins,  currants  and  figs  chopped  fine,  one-fourth  pound  of 
citron  chopped  fine,  one  wineglass  of  coffee  (substituted  for  brandy), 
2^  cupfuls  of  flour  well  browned.  This  will  make  one  large  loaf  or  two 
small  ones.  The  longer  kept  the  better  it  is.  This  may  be  iced  or  not. 
A  boiled  milk  frosting  is  good  while  eggs  are  high. 

Eggless  Waffles. — Mix  at  night  a  batter  with  sour  milk  if  you  have 
it;  if  not,  sweet  will  answer.  To  each  quart  of  milk,  with  flour  for  bat- 
ter, add  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt.  If  sweet  milk  is  used  add  small  quantity  yeast  or  one-quarter  com- 
pressed yeast  cake.  In  the  morning  add  enough  baking  soda  to  correct 
acidity — you  will  have  to  try  baking  a  little  to  get  it  right. 

Russian  Fried  Cakes. — Scald  one  pint  of  milk,  add  one  scant  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  when  lukewarm  add 
one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a  drop  batter,  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  light  and  spongy  add 
one-half  cupful  of  butter,  creamed  together  with  one  cupful  of  sugar 
and  three  eggs;  beat  until  thoroughly  mixed;  add  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough  and  knead  for  five  minutes.  Return  to  the  bowl ; 
cover  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  until  light.  Turn  out  on  a  floured  board ; 
roll  out  quite  thin  and  cut  into  three-inch  circles.  On  one-half  of  these 
cakes  place  a  small  spoonful  of  any  firm  jam  or  marmalade.  Cover  with 
the  remaining  cakes  and  pinch  each  together  securely.  Cover  with  a 
floured  cloth,  and  let  stand  for  20  minutes;  then  drop  a  few  at  a  time 
into  smoking  hot  fat.  When  well  browned  and  puffed  up  draw  on  un- 
glazed  paper  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Fruit  Cake. — Three  pounds  flour,  one  pound  butter,  5^  pound  lard, 
two  pounds  stoned  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  one  pound  mixed  can- 
died peel,  sliced,  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  ground  allspice,  cinnamon, 
cloves,  nutmeg  and  ginger;  two  pounds  brown  sugar;  a  little  salt;  one 
cup  milk;  eight  eggs;  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  If  all  baked 
in  one  loaf  bake  for  four  hours. 

Graham  Fruit  Cake.— Sift  three  cups  of  sifted  graham  flour,  two  cups 
of  white  flour,  one  teaspoon  each  of  clove,  allspice,   soda  and  salt  and 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  99 

two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon.  To  two  cups  of  sugar  add  one  cup  of  mo- 
lasses and  two  cups  of  milk  alternately  with  the  sifted  flour  mixture. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  add  three  cups  each  of  seeded  raisins  and  citron, 
both  slightly  floured.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

Maple  Sugar  Fruit  Cake.— Cream  one  cupful  of  butter  and  add  to  it 
two  cupfuls  of  maple  sugar,  one  of  maple  syrup,  three  beaten  eggs,  one 
small  cupful  of  milk  with  a  rounding  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  it, 
five  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar  and  a 
little  salt.  Mix  all  together  and  add  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  of  cur- 
rants, half  a  pound  of  citron  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  orange  peel, 
all  well  floured.  No  spices  are  used,  as  the  maple  sugar  flavors  the 
cake. 

Old-Fashioned  Fruit  Cake. — This  is  intended  for  rolling  out  and  bak- 
ing in  flat  pans,  instead  of  the  usual  loaf.  Take  two  and  a  half  cupfuls 
of  sugar,  creamed  up  with  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  sour 
milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  ground  cloves,  a  cupful  of  raisins  and  one  of  currants,  with  a 
little  chopped  citron  and  enough  flour  to  make  quite  stiff.  Knead  all 
together,  roll  about  two  inches  thick  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Spread  the  layers  with  boiled  sugar  frosting  and  cut  into  squares  before 
the  frosting  hardens. 

Poor  Man's  Fruit  Cake. — Seed  and  chop  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
dates;  mix  with  them  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  and  dust  them  with 
one-half  cupful  of  flour.  Dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  v/ater;  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  very  thick 
sour  cream,  stir  a  moment  and  add  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  half  a 
tumblerful  of  currant  or  blackberry  jelly,  a  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  a 
teaspoonful  of  allspice  and  two  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  flour.  Beat  thor- 
oughly, add  the  fruit,  mix  well  and  turn  into  a  greased  square  pan.  Bake 
in  a  very  slow  oven  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  This  cake  will  be  quite 
equal  to  plain  fruit  cake  if  the  cream  is  very  thick,  and  it  is  allowed  to 
stand  a  week  before  cutting. 

German  Cookies. — To  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  lard,  one  cup  of  molasses,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and 
ginger,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  add  one  Qgg,  one  cup  of 
nuts,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  candied  citron  and  orange  peel  chopped 
fine  and  flour  enough  to  make  stiff.  The  dough  must  be  stiff  or  the 
cookies  will  not  retain  the  shape  in  baking. 

Colonial  Gingerbread. — Put  a  cupful  of  New  Orleans  molasses  in  a 
mixing  bowl  with  half  a  cupful  of  butter"  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar. 
Over  this  pour  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  in  which  a  level  dessertspoonful 
of    soda    has    already    been    dissolved.     Stir    well,    and    let    the    mixture 


100  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

cool;  then  add  a  cupful  of  chopped  walnuts  and  a  cupful  of  seeded  rai- 
sins, a  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  ginger,  two  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls  of  flour,  and,  lastly,  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan 
and  serve  while   still  warm   from   the   oven. 

Honey  Gingerbread. — Wanu  a  generous  half  cup  of  butter  and  beat 
into  it  two  cups  of  strained  honey.  When  you  have  a  light  cream  beat 
in  one  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar,  a  tablespoon  of  ginger  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  al- 
ternately with  the  frothed  whites,  three  even  cups  of  flour  sifted  twice 
with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Beat  hard  for  one  minute  and 
bake  in  buttered  shallow  pans  for  45  minutes.  Keep  covered  for  30 
minutes. 

Shiny  Gingerbread. — This  is  very  crackly  and  shiny  on  top.  The 
secret  of  making  it  thus  is  to  pour  the  shortening  boiling  hot  on  the, 
molasses  and  beat  the  batter  as  little  as  possible.  Pour  a  small  half- 
teacupful  of  boiling  hot  shortening,  lard  and  butter,  or  beef  suet  and 
butter  mixed,  upon  one-half  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses  ;•  add  two 
lablespoonfuls  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger,  a  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon;  then  sift  in  about  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  flour,  to 
which  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  has  been  added;  lastly  add  a  well- 
beaten  egg,  then  mix  with  a  few  deft  turns  of  the  spoon  and  bake  in  one 
large  pan  or  two  small  ones  in  a  moderate  oven;  serve  hot,  and  break, 
not  cut,  at  the  table. 

Ginger  Snaps. — Beat  together  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  ginger.  Heat  one  cupful  of  molasses  to  the  scalding 
point,  stir  into  it  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  saleratus,  and,  while  it 
foams,  pour  it  over  the  butter  and  egg,  and  beat  together.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful of  vinegar,  and  stir  in  lightly  enough  flour  to  roll  out  and  cut 
the  dough. 

Half-Pound  Cake. — ^One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  one-half 
pound  of  butter,  one  teacupful  of  milk,  four  eggs.  Flavor  to  taste.  Whip 
up  the  sugar  and  eggs,  putting  in  one  egg  at  a  time.  Then  stir  in  the 
milk  and  flavoring,  following  this  with  the  flour,  which  must  be  very 
thoroughly  beaten  into  the  batter.  Pour  into  paper-lined  tins  and  bake 
in  a  steady  oven  for  45  minutes.  This  quantity  should  make  two  loaves. 
The  oven  must  be  well  regulated,  and  care  taken  to  avoid  any  jar,  or 
the  cake  will  be  apt  to  fall  in  the  middle. 

Hardenburg  Cake. — This  is  an  old-fashioned  Dutch  fruit  cake. 
Cream  together  a  pound  and  a  half  of  butter  and  two  pounds  of  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Add  one-half  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  the  beaten 
yolks  of  12  eggs,  two  ounces  of  mixed  spices — mace,  cinnamon  and 
cloves,  two  grated  nutmegs,  one-half  pound  candied  peel — two  pounds 
cleansed   and   dried   currants,    four   pounds   stoned   and   cut   raisins,    one- 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  101 

half  pint  pickled  fruit  syrup  or  boiled-down  cider,  and  flour  to  make  the 
ingredients  hang  together.  If  not  self-raising  flour,  add  a  dessertspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  About  a  pound  and'  a  quarter  of  flour  will  be  re- 
quired. Lastly,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  three, 
or  four  hours  in  a  moderate  even,  taking  care  not  to  disturb. 

Honey  Apple  Cake.— Wash  two  cupfuls  of  dried  apples  (old-fash- 
ioned kind  are  the  best)  and  soak  them  over  night.  Next  morning  drain 
them  and  mince  as  fine  as  posL-ible  and  simmer  for  two  hours  in  a  pint 
of  honey.  Pour  into  a  bowl  and  add  while  hot  half  a  cupful  of  butter, 
stir  until  butter  is  melted  and  mixed,  then  let  cool.  Add  a  cupful  of 
sifted  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and 
cinnamon,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lem.on,  two  eggs  well  beaten  and 
two  cupfuls  of  flour  in  which  you  have  mixed  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Line  long,  shallow  tins  with  buttered  paper  and  pour  in  the 
batter  to  depth  of  half  an  inch.  When  baked  cut  into  strips  size  of 
lady  fingers  and  dust  the  surface  with  powdered  sugar. 

Hot  Cross  Buns. — Sift  into  a  large  bowl  one  full  quart  of  flour,  half 
a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  dissolve  one-fourth 
of  a  cupful  of  butter  in  a  generous  half-pint  of  warm  milk,  and  add  to 
the  dry  ingredients,  Avith  the  yolks  of  two  beaten  eggs;  add  half  a 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  the 
whites  of  the  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  this  should  make  a  very  soft  dough. 
Cover  the  bowl  with  a  clean  cloth,  place  it  where  it  will  keep  warm, 
and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  take  pieces  of  the  dough  the 
size  of  an  egg  and,  with  a  little  flour,  mold  them  into  round  cakes  an 
inch  in  thickness.  Place  them  on  a  buttered  tin,  leaving  a  little  space 
between.  Cover  the  tins  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  the  buns  to  rise; 
they  should  be  double  their  original  size.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  a 
cross  in  the  center  of  each  bun.  Bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
about  half  an  hour.  When  the  buns  are  baked,  brush  the  top  with  a 
syrup  made  of  sugar  and  water.  A  few  currants  or  a  little  candied 
peel  is  usually  added  to  this  recipe. 

Icing,  Plain. — Dissolve  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  in  one-quarter 
of  a  cupful  of  hot  water;  flavor  with  essence  of  vanilla  or  some  orange 
juice  and  cook  until  it  threads.  Then  pour  it  slowly  over  the  whipped 
white  of  an  tgg,  beating  the  mixture  all  the  time  until  cool. 

Imperial  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  three-quar- 
ters pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  fine;  one- 
half  pound  of  citron,  one-quarter  pound  candied  cherries,  one-half  pound 
of  seeded  raisins,  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  pieces  of  candied 
orange,  one  nutmeg,  10  eggs.  Bake  in  a  loaf  in  a  moderate  oven.  This 
is  a  rich  and  delicious  cake,  that  can  be  made  some  time  before  it  is  used. 

Grandmother's   Jumbles. — Work   three-quarters    of   a   pound    of   butter 


102  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

into  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Flavor  with 
grated  nutmeg,  cinnamon  or  lemon  extract,  and  add  three  well  beaten 
eggs.  Work  all  well  together  into  a  smooth  paste  and  roll  out  an  eighth 
of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Sprinkle  crushed  loaf  sugar  over  it  and  cut  into 
round  cakes  with  a  very  small  cutter ;  take  out  the  center.  Lay  on  bak- 
ing sheets  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  without  browning,  about  10  minutes. 

Jumbles  Without  Eggs. — A  half  cupful  each  of  butter  and  slightly 
soured  milk,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  the  same  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  mixed,  the  grated  yellow  rind 
of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  two  cupfuls  of  flour 
to  stifl^en.  Bake  in  rings  in  a  hot  oven.  A  cupful  of  clean,  light,  new- 
fallen  snow  stirred  into  cake,  or  other  batters,  briskly,  the  very  last  thing 
before  turning  it  into  the  baking  pan,  is  a  good  substitute  for  eggs.  When 
snow  is  used  a  little  more  flour  is  required — about  two  tablespoonfuls. 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake. — One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
three  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  the  whites 
of  six  eggs,  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  rose  \A^ater.  ]\Iix  as  directed  for  white  cakes  and  bake  in  three  layers, 
with  this  filling:  Dissolve  three  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  in  one  cup- 
ful of  boiling  water,  cook  until  it  threads,  then  pour  gradually  over  the 
stiffly-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  stirring  constantly.  Add  to  this  icing 
one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cupful  of  chopped  nut  meats  (pecans 
preferred),  and  five  figs  cut  in  very  thin  strips.  Ice  and  emboss  top  and 
sides  of  cake. 

Lady  Fingers. — Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  very  stiff,  then  beat 
in  gradually  one-third  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  just  a  bit  of  salt.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  until  light  and  thick  and  add  to  the  whites,  putting 
in  at  the  same  time  a  little  vanilla  extract.  Fold  in  one-third  of  a  cup 
of  flour.  Shape  on  a  buttered  tin  to  resemble  those  sold  in  the  shops; 
that  is,  make  them  very  thin  and  about  four  and  one-half  inches  long  by 
one  inch  wide.  Dust  with  confectioner's  sugar  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.     About   eight  minutes   will  be   required   for   the   baking. 

Lebkuchen. — Take  a  cupful  of  butter  and  one  of  sugar,  pour  over  them 
two  cupfuls  of  honey  heated  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  a  generous  handful 
of  blanched  almonds,  a  grated  nutmeg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 
Dissolve  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  water  and  add  to  the  ingre- 
dients. Mix  with  flour  until  the  dough  is  as  stiff  as  for  ginger  cookies. 
Roll  out  like  cookies.  Cut  into  oblong  cakes  and  bake  until  well 
browned. 

Lemon  Sponge  Cake. — Three  eggs,  one-half  cupful  granulated  sugar, 
one-half  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very 
stiff,  beat  the  yolks  and  add.     When  well  mixed  add  the  sugar  slowly 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  103 

and  beat;  grate  the  outside  of  rind  of  lemon  and  add  the  juice,  then 
beat  all  with  tgg  beater  three  minutes.  Sift  in  the  flour  in  which  the 
baking  powder  has  been  mixed  and  stir  slowly  and  carefully,  but  do  not 
beat  after  flour  is  in.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  35  minutes. 

Maple  Layer  Cake.— Make  a  tender  layer  cake  by  any  good  recipe,  and 
bake  in  three  large  layers.  For  a  filling  take  two  cupfuls  of  maple  su- 
gar, add  one  cup  of  water  and  boil  until  it  will  wax  when  dropped  in 
cold  water.  Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  but- 
ter and  stir  speedily  till  it  v.-ill  spread  on  the  cake.  Add  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  and  put  between  the  layers. 

Molasses  Cookies. — Take  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  but- 
ter or  good  shortening.  Cream  them  and  add  two  cups  of  molasses  and 
two  eggs.  Dissolve  two  good-sized  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  in  a  little  hot 
v/ater,  and  fillup  the  cup  it  is  in  with  cold  water.  Add  it  to  the  other 
mixture  and  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  but  one  that  can 
be  rolled  out  and  cut  into  cookies.     Spice  to  suit  the  taste. 

Delicious  Nut  Cake.— Cream  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  adding  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  beating  very  light;  then  add,  by  alter- 
nate bits,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  milk  and  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of 
flour  mixed  with  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  At  the  last 
turn  in  a  cupful  of  minced  English  walnut  meat  and  bake  in  a  shallow 
tin.  When  the  cake  is  cool  cover  with  icing,  mark  in  squares  and  put 
nut  meat  on  the  top  of  each. 

Nut  Wafers. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  nut  meats  chopped  fine.  Hickorynuts  are  preferred, 
and  the  sugar  should  be  light  brown.  Spread  the  mixture  in  a  very  thin 
layer  on  a  well-greased  tin  and  bake  ten  minutes  or  until  well  tinged 
with  brown.  Cut  in  squares  and  remove  from  the  tin  as  soon  as  they  are 
done,  that  the  wafers  may  grow  crispy  in  the  air. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. — Cream  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter  with  one 
cupful  of  sugar;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Sift  three-fourths  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  into  two  cupfuls  of  flour;  add  one-half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  now  add  to  the  mixture  two  cup- 
fuls of  uncooked  rolled  oats  and  one  scant  cupful  of  chopped  raisins 
sprinkled  with  a  little  flour.  Drop  by  the  teaspoonful  into  a  greased 
pan ;,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Oatmeal  Crisps. — One  tabler.poonful  of  butter,  creamed,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  added  gradually;  two  and  one-half  cups  rolled  oats;  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder  well  mixed  with  the  oats ;  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  two  teaspoons  vanilla  in  the  eggs.  Mix  in  the 
order  given ;  bake  in  a  medium  to  slow  oven.  A  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
mixture  makes  a  dainty  crisp.  Allow  room  for  them  to  spread  in  the 
pan.  If  you  cannot  get  on  without  flour  use  a  little  best  bread  flour — 
not  pastry. 


104  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Oatmeal  Macaroons. — Cream  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  scant 
measure;  add  gradually  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  then  the  beaten  yolks  of 
two  large  eggs  beaten  again  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Then  stir  in  2^ 
cupfuls  of  rolled  oats,  mixed  with  2>^  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla,  then  fold  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  dry.  Drop  with  a 
teaspoon  on  to  a  buttered  baking-sheet,  making  little  rounds  about  three 
inches  apart,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Orange  Cake. — Sift  together  four  times  IJ.^  cupful  of  flour  and  1>^ 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  well  two  eggs,  add  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and 
the  same  quantity  of  orange  juice;  then  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  pow- 
der. Bake  in  a  square,  shallow  tin.  When  cooked  split  open  and  fill 
with  a  cream  made  as  follows:  Into  a  cup  squeeze  the  juice  of  one 
orange,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  hot  water  to  fill  the  cup, 
put  this  on  to  cook  in  a  double  boiler,  thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
cornstarch  wet  with  cold  water,  and  add  the  grated  rind  of  half  an 
orange,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  the  yolk  of  an  tg^. 

Othello  Cake,  or  Devil's  Food. — Part  first — One  cupful  of  dark  brown 
sugar;  one-half  cupful  of  butter;  one  Qgg  and  yolks  of  two;  one-half 
cupful  sweet  milk;  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two  cupfuls  flour,  measured 
before  sifting;  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  extract.  Part  second — One  cup- 
ful dark  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  grated  chocolate,  one-half  cupful  sweet 
milk.  Grate  the  chocolate,  add  milk  and  sugar,  put  in  a  double  boiler, 
and  place  on  the  back  of  stove  until  dissolved;  but  do  not  boil.  Prepare 
this  first  and  have  dissolving  while  preparing  part  first.  To  mix  part 
first,  cream  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs,  together,  dissolve  the  soda  in  milk, 
and  add  to  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  flour  tablespoonful  at  a  time 
until  all  is  in,  beating  lightly.  Beat  part  second  into  part  first  and  bake 
in  two  layers. 

Panoche  Cake. — Make  any  good  white  cake,  and  bake  in  two  layers. 
Make  a  filling  as  follows :  Boil  together  two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar  and 
one-half  cupful  milk  until  they  harden  in  cold  water.  Then  add  a  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Stir  while  cooking. 
To  half  of  this  mixture  add  one-half  cupful  of  English  walnut  meats;  as 
soon  as  cool  enough  spread  between  the  layers.  Spread  the  remainder 
of  the  mixture  on  top  of  the  cske,  and  decorate  with  half  walnut  meats. 

Peanut  Cookies. — One-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  granulated 
sugar,  one-half  cupful  milk,  one  Qgg,  one  pint  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  one  heaping  cupful  chopped  peanuts.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  the  milk  and  egg — beating  white  and  yolk  separately — 
ihen  the  baking  powder  mixed  with  part  of  the  flour,  and  lastly  the  re- 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  105 

mainder  of  the  flour,  in  which  has  been  mixed  the  nuts.  Handle  very 
I'ttle  and  do  not  roll  too  thin. 

Pork  Cake. — One  pound  of  fat  salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  and  dissolved 
i-i  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, one  pound  each  of  raisins  and  currants,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cinnamon,  one  teaspooriful  cloves,  two  nutmegs  grated,  grated  zest  of  one 
orange  and  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  baking  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar,  seven  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
This   amount   makes   three  medium-sized   loaf   cakes. 

Potato  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  hot 
mashed  potato,  four  eggs  beaten,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon nutmeg,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
one  cup  walnut  meats  chopped  fine,  two  rounding  cups  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  two  ounces  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water  and 
mixed  with  potato;  add  to  sugar  and  butter  and  mix  as  usual.  Bake  in 
three  layers   and  put  together  with   frosting. 

Pound  Cake. — Mix  a  pound  of  sugar  with  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter.  When  worked  white,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to 
a  froth,  then  the  whites.  Add  a  pound  of  sifted  flour  and  mace  or  nutmeg 
to  taste.  If  you  wish  to  have  your  cake  particularly  nice,  stir  in,  just 
before  you  put  it  into  the  pans,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  or  al- 
monds blanched,  and  powdered  fine  in  rosewater. 

Raised  Cake. — Two  cupfuls  light  sponge,  one  cupful  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  butter,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  cupful  stoned  raisins,  floured, 
half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
water.  Make  into  a  loaf  or  loaves,  and  when  light  bake  in  rather  slow 
oven,  as  it  scorches  easily.  If  desired,  cover  it  with  a  milk  icing,  for 
which  use  10  teaspoonfuls  sweet  milk,  1^  cupful  sugar.  Boil  six  min- 
utes, take  from  stove  and  stir  until  quite  white,  flavor,  spread  quickly 
with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water. 

Raisin-Cake  Squares. — Sift  and  dry  half  a  pound  of  flour,  rub  into  this 
two  ounces  of  butter  and  a  very  little  lard,  add  three  ounces  of  sugar,  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  six  ounces  of  stoned  raisins.  Beat 
two  eggs  with  a  spoonful  of  milk,  and  add  to  the  dry  ingredients;  add 
a  pinch  of  ground  cinnamon  and  beat  all  to  a  light  batter;  pour  into 
a  greased  pudding  tin  and  bake  in  a  sharp  oven;  when  cooled  a  little 
cut  with  a  hot  knife  into  squares  and  serve  while  still  warm. 

Rochester  Cake.— Two  cups  sugar;  two-thirds  butter;  one  cup  sweet 
milk;  three  eggs;  three  cups  flour;  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  a 
little  salt  and  flavoring.  Put  half  the  mixture  in  two  jelly  cake  pans.  To 
the  remainder  add  one  tablespoon  molasses ;  one  cup  chopped  raisins  or 
currants;  one-fourth  pound  chopped  citron;  one  teaspoon  cinnamon;  one- 
half   teaspoon   cloves;   one-half   teaspoon  allspice;   a   little   nutmeg;   one 


106  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

tablespoon  flour.  Put  in  two  other  jelly  cake  pans.  Put  the  cakes  to- 
gether while  warm  with  a  little  jelly  or  raspberry  jam  between  them, 
dark  and  light  layers  alternately. 

Rose  Layer  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  a  fourth 
of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  stiff,  three  and  a 
fourth  cups  of  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
jelly  tins.  Grease  the  tins  well  and  dust  flour  over  every  part  before 
putting  in  the  batter.  Boil  two  cups  of  powdered  sugar  in  a  half  tea- 
cupful  of  water,  stirring  constantly.  When  very  thick  pour  boiling-hot 
over  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Beat  until  almost  cold.  Flavor 
with  rose  extract  and  color  with  cochineal.  Put  the  cakes  together  with 
this  icing.  For  the  pink  coloring  matter,  buy  Hve  cents'  worth  of  baker's 
cochineal  of  the  druggist,  put  half  a  teaspoonful  into  a  cup  and  cover 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Let  stand  an  hour,  add  alum 
(powdered)  the  size  of  a  large  pea,  and  add  drop  by  drop  to  the  icing 
until  of  a  pretty  pink  color. 

Sour  Cream  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour  cream,  three-fourths 
cup  raisins,  one  level  teaspoonful  salt,  two  eggs,  two  cups  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  saleratus  and  cinnamon,  a  saltspoonful  ground  cloves 
Beat  well,  bake  in  loaf  or  two  layers,  and  use  any  white  frosting  for 
covering  the  cake.  For  the  sour  cream  icing,  use  one  cup  sour  cream, 
one  and  one-half  cup  sugar  (granulated),  three-fourths  cup  ground 
walnuts  and  hickory  nuts.  Boil  in  granite  pan  to  soft  ball  stage,  then  stir 
briskly  until  nearly  cold.  If  this  should  prove  too  stiff,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  sweet  milk. 

Salem  Spice  Cake. — Cream  a  half  cupful  of  butter  with  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  add  two  eggs — one  at  a  time — and  beat  until  the  mixture  is  very 
light.  Sift  lYz  cupful  of  flour  with  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Add  the 
flour,  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time,  alternately  with  a  half  cupful  of  cold 
water,  and  add  to  the  last  tablespoonful  of  flour  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Stir  in  a  half  cupful  of  cleaned  and  seeded  raisins  and  bake  in 
a  shallow,  well-greased  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  for  25  minutes. 

Spiced  Molasses  Wafers. — This  is  one  of  the  daintiest  gingerbreads. 
One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  molasses,  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one- 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  all- 
spice, two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Put  the  molasses,  sugar  and  butter  in 
a  saucepan  and  boil  gently  over  the  fire  until,  when  tr;ed  in  cold  water, 
a  little  of  the  mixture  can  be  rolled  into  a  very  soft  ball  between  the 
fingers;  cover  and  set  aside  until  cold.  Add  the  spice,  then  the  flour, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Butter  liberally  a  number  of  shallow  tins.  Make 
a  tester  by  dropping  a  teaspoonful  of  the  mixture  on  a  greased  pan  and 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  107 

baking  it  in  a  hot  oven.  This  is  necessary,  as  with  some  brands  of  flour 
a  trifle  more  may  be  indicated.  The  mixture  will  spread  very  much  and 
when  taken  from  the  oven  the  cake  will  be  as  thin  as  a  wafer  and  should 
be  taken  at  once  from  the  pan. 

Berwick  Sponge  Cake. — Six  eggs;  powdered  white  sugar,  three  cup- 
fuls;  sifted  flour,  four  even  cupfuls;  cream  of  tartar,  two  teaspoonf uls ; 
soda,  one  teaspoonf ul;  one  cupful  cold  water,  one-half  of  a  lemon. 
First  beat  the  eggs  two  minutes,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  five  minutes  more, 
then  stir  the  cream  of  tartar  in  two  cupfuls  of  the  flour  and  beat  one 
minute;  dissolve  the  soda  in  the  water  and  add;  wash  the  lemon  dry, 
then  grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  in  the  juice.  Finally,  add  the  remaining 
two  cupfuls  of  flour  and  beat  all  one  minute.  Put  into  deep  pans  in  a 
moderate  oven.  This  will  make  two  bars,  or  loaves.  When  it  is  done 
it  smells  like  fresh  popcorn.  There  is  considerable  beating  about  this 
cake,  and  therein  lies  the  success.  You  can  use  three  tablespoonfuls 
baking  powder  (if  you  wish,  in  place  of  cream  of  tartar  and  soda),  but 
sift  it  in  the  two  last  cupfuls  of  flour.  Have  about  the  same  heat  as 
for  raised  bread,  put  into  the  oven  and  let  it  remain  certainly  20  min- 
utes without  looking  at  it.  If  it  can  bake  until  done  without  the  oven 
door  being  opened,  so  much  the  better. 

Boiled  Sponge  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cupful  granulated  sugar,  two- 
thirds  cupful  water,  boiled  until  clear;  pour  over  (beating  while  you 
pour)  the  whites  of  five  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  very  stiff  in  a  large 
platter;  now  beat  until  cold,  and  add  yolk  of  eggs  beaten  smooth,  juice 
of  a  half  lemon  and  one  cupful  of  flour  folded  in  gently.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  about  three-fourths  hour.  Bake  in  oblong  pan  about  two  to  2J^ 
inches  deep.  Can  be  iced  with  any  icing  preferred,  and  will  keep  in- 
definitely. 

Never-Fail  Sponge  Cake. — This  can  be  made  and  baked  in  35  min- 
utes. A  good  sponge  should  be  yellow  as  gold,  of  velvety  softness  and 
tender  as  a  marshm.allow.  If  the  rule  here  given  is  strictly  followed, 
such  a  cake  will  be  the  sure  result :  Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
four  eggs.  Beat  the  whites  until  stiff  enough  to  remain  in  bowl  if  it  is 
inverted,  then  beat  into  them  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  which  must  be  fine 
granulated  (powdered  sugar  makes  tough  cake  and  proper  beating  does 
away  entirely  with  the  grains).  Beat  the  yolks,  add  to  them  one-half 
cupful  of  sugar,  beating  for  five  minutes  by  the  clock — this  latter  being 
important,  as  the  delicate  texture  of  the  cake  depends  upon  it;  add  to 
the  yolks  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Now  beat  well  to- 
gether the  yolks  and  white.  At  this  stage  beating  is  in  order,  but  must 
be  absolutely  avoided  after  adding  the  flour,  of  which  take  one  cupful. 
The  mixture  should  now  look  like  a  puff  ball,  and  the  flour  is  to  be 
tossed  or  stirred  into  it  with  a  light  turn  of  the  wooden  spoon.     Stirring 


108  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

is  quite  different  from  beating.  The  cupful  of  sugar  must  be  generous, 
the  flour  scanty.  Bake  for  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Just  be- 
fore putting  in  the  oven  sprinkle  on  top  through  a  sifter  about  a  table- 
spoonful  of  granulated  sugar.  This  gives  the  "crackly"  top  crust  so 
desirable. 

Tory  Wafers. — Melt  a  teacup  of  butter,  a  half  a  cup  of  lard,  and  mix 
them  with  a  quart  of  flour,  a  couple  of  beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  flavoring.  Add  milk  till  of  the  right  consistency  to  roll  out; 
roll  it  out  about  the  third  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  it  into  cakes  with 
a  cookie  cutter,  lay  them  on  buttered  baking  plates,  and  bake  them  a 
few  minutes.  Frost  them  as  soon  as  baked,  and  sprinkle  comfits  or 
sugar  sand  on  the  top. 

Venetian  Cake. — This  makes  a  handsome  loaf,  and  is  -very  good. 
Beat  together  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  half  a  pint  of  sugar  for  20 
mJnutes.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  mix  in  lightly  4^ 
rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mold  dusted 
with  equal  parts  of  flour  and  sugar.  Bake  half  an  hour,  with  an  increas- 
ing heat,  putting  it  into  a  moderate  oven  at  first.  When  done  invert  it 
on  the  pastry  rack,  and  when  cold  frost  with  a  vanilla  chocolate  icing. 

Walnut  Cake. — Cream  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter  with  one 
cupful  of  sugar.  Separate  three  eggs;  beat  the  yolks  until  creamy  and 
add  to  butter  and  sugar;  then  add  one  cupful  of  milk  alternating  with 
three  cupfuls  of  flour  (reserve  enough  of  the  flour  for  the  nuts),  add  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  cupful  of  nut  kernels  chopped,  and 
last  of  all  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  frotih.  Bake 
in  a  loaf  tin  in  a  moderate  oven  from  45  minutes  to  one  hour. 

Walnut  Wafers. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  chopped  nuts,  two 
eggs,  one  tablespoon  butter,  flour  enough  to  make  very  thick  dough 
(about  eight  tablespoonfuls),  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  vanilla.  Beat 
sugar  and  yolks  together,  add  nuts,  butter  and  flour;  lastly  the  whites 
beaten  stiff  and  baking  powder.  Drop  by  one-half  teaspoonful  on  but- 
tered tins,   allowing   room   to   spread.     Bake   in   quick   oven. 

Whigs. — Mix  half  a  pound  of  sugar  with  six  ounces  of  butter,  a 
couple  of  beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Stir  in  two  pounds 
of  flour,  a  teacup  of  yeast,  and  milk  sufficient  to  m.ake  a  thick  batter. 
When  light,  bake  them  in  small  cups. 

White  Fruit  Cake. — The  whites  of  16  eggs,  one  pound  each  of  sugar, 
flour  and  butter,  one  grated  cocoanut,  one  pound  chopped  citron,  one 
pound  chopped  blanched  almonds,  one  wineglass  of  rose  water,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Flour  citron  and  almonds  well;  bake  care- 
fully. 


CHAPTER  IX. 


EGGS. 


Eggs  a  la  Bonne  Femme. — Cut  an  onion  into  fine  dice,  fry  it  lightly  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  then  dash  in  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar.  But- 
ter a  shallow  dish,  sprinkle  the  fried  onion  over  it,  and  break  in  five 
eggs,  being  very  careful  that  the  yolks  remain  whole.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  the  whites  become  a  delicate  film.  Dust  with  salt  and  white 
pepper.  Just  before  sending  to  the  table  sprinkle  all  over  the  dish 
coarse  bread  crumbs  fried  delicately  brown  in  butter,  and  garnish  with 
watercress  or  parsley. 

A  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. — Put  the  eggs  in  boiling  water  and  boil  six 
minutes ;  then  take  from  the  fire  and  dip  in  cold  water,  taking  them 
out  immediately;  this  is  to  render  shelling  easy.  When  shelled,  cut  the 
eggs  through  lengthwise  and  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish  on  which  maitre 
d'hotel  butter  has  been  melted.  With  a  spoon  cover  the  eggs  with  this 
sauce,  which  is  made  as  follows :  Mix  with  a  spoon  on  a  plate  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped*  par- 
sley, a  pinch  of  salt,  and  pepper.  Put  it  on  a  hot  platter  to  melt.  This 
sauce  is  often  served  with  fish,  broiled  meat  or  boiled  vegetables.  It  is 
very  nice  with  new  potatoes.  Eggs  boiled  as  above  described  are  also 
very  good  with  strained  tomato,  or  parsley  sauce,  while  another  varia- 
tion is  given  by  using  black  butter,  sauce  au  beurre  noir.  To  make  this, 
brown  half  a  cupful  of  butter  in  the  frying  pan  as  brown  as  it  can  be 
made  without  burning,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper.     This   sauce   is   very  good  with   fish   also. 

Baked  Eggs. — One  large  cupful  of  milk,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter (or  more  if  wished),  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  made  smooth  with  a  little  extra  milk.  Boil  about  three  minutes 
and  pour  in  heated  dish,  then  break  in  five  fresh  eggs  and  put  in  hot 
oven  and  bake  until  whites  of  eggs  are  set. 

Baked  Eggs  with  Cheese.— Cut  12  hard  boiled  eggs  in  thick  slices, 
nnd,  having  a  buttered  baking  dish  well  sprinkled  with  dry  crumbs,  place 
a.  layer  of  eggs  in  the  center.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  season 
lightly  with  salt  and  paprika.  Add  another  layer  of  eggs  and  cheese 
until  the  dish  is  filled,  finishing  with  the  cheese.  Pour  in  a  cream  sauce 
thickened  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  sprinkle  with  fresh  bread  crumbs 
mixed  with  cheese,  dot  with  butter  and  bake  about  10  minutes  in  a  hot 
even,  or  until  the  cruiTibf!  are  a  golden  yellow.     Serve  at  once. 


no  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Baked  Eggs  With  Mashed  Potatoes. — The  potatoes  should  be  well  sea- 
soned, and  beaten  smooth  with  hot  cream  or  milk  and  butter,  so  they 
will  be  very  light.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  then  with  a 
small  croquette  mold  (or  if  this  's  lacking,  with  a  clean  egg)  make 
deep  little  hollows  in  the  potatoes.  Drop  an  uncooked  egg  carefully 
into  each  of  these  hollows,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dot  the  1;op 
with  bits  of  butter;  set  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are  cooked,  and  serve 
at  once. 

Creamed  Eggs. — Boil  six  eggs  for  about  eight  minutes.  Cool,  remove 
shells,  and  cut  into  halves.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  blend  with  the  same  amount  of  flour.  Add  a  cup  of 
water  and  stir  until  smooth.  Put  in  some  more  butter,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice.     Stir  in  the  eggs  and  serve  on  toast. 

Eggs  in  Cream. — Use  very  thick  cream,  a  dessert  spoonful  to  each  egg 
to  cook  them  in.  Put  the  cream  in  a  large  deep  granite  ware  pie  dish 
and  set  on  top  of  the  stove  for  a  minute  or  two,  until  the  cream  gets  thin. 
Then  break  in  the  eggs ;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  white  pepper  over 
each  egg,  set  the  dish  back  on  the  stove,  cover  close  and  let  stand  two 
or  three  minutes,  or  until  the  eggs  are  nicely  set.  These  are  most  de- 
licious served  with  toast  and  coffee   for  breakfast. 

Mexican  Eggs. — Peel  and  chop  four  or  five  ripe  tomatoes  and  lay 
them  in  a  shallow  vegetable  dish  or  on  a  platter  on  which  the  peppers 
are  to  be  served.  Remove  the  stems  and  seeds  from  six  or  eight  very 
tender  peppers,  and  if  desired,  the  skins  can  be  peeled  off  in  this  way. 
Put  them  into  a  dry  frying  pan  over  a  moderate  fire,  moving  them 
often  until  they  are  sufficiently  wilted  to  allow  the  removal  of  the  skins. 
This  done,  put  a  small  bit  of  cheese  in  each  pepper  and  return  them  to 
the  pan  with  a  good  lump  of  butter.  Fry  them  gently  so  the  butter  will 
not  scorch.  When  done  pour  three  well-beaten  eggs  slightly  salted  into 
the  pan  with  the  peppers  and  when  set  take  them  up  by  the  spoonful — 
a  pepper  in  each — and  lay  them  on  the  chopped  tomatoes. 

Omelets. — It  is  always  better  to  make  several  small  omelets  than  one 
large  one,  if  a  number  of  persons  are  to  be  served.  It  is  much  more 
likely  to  turn  out  well.  Nearly  everyone  has  her  own  special  recipe  for 
this  dish ;  the  regulation  French  omelet  calls  for  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
to  which  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water  are  added,  and  stirred  in  lightly. 
A  level  tablespoonful  of  butter  is  melted  in  a  perfectly  smooth  frying 
pan  and  the  omelet  turned  in;  it  is  shaken  gently  to  prevent  sticking, 
and  when  cooked  rolled  over  with  a  flexible  knife  and  slid  on  to  a  hot 
dish.  It  is  varied  by  putting  in  a  filling  before  rolling  over;  half  a  cup 
of  grated  cheese  is  very  nice,  or  some  jam  or  jelly  for  a  sweet  omelet, 
which  makes  a  rich  dessert.     Some  cooks  stir  a  little  flour  into  the  first 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  Ill 

egg  beaten,   and   separate  the   eggs,    folding  in  the  beaten  whites   last; 
this  makes  a  very  light  and  puffy  omelet. 

Buttermilk  Omelet. — Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of  but- 
termilk, one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three-quarters  cup  of  finely  rolled 
cracker  crumbs,  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  pepper.  Have  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  hot  in  a  frying  pan. 
Turn  in  omelet  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Place  in  oven  for  10  minutes 
and  when  firm  fold  and  serve. 

Fairy  Omelet. — Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs  separately;  add  five 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk  to  the  yolks.  Heat  a  skillet  and  put  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter;  let  it  melt,  pour  in  the  beaten  yolks  and  pile  be- 
tween whites  on  the  tcp;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and 
cook  three  minutes,  slip  out  on  hot  platter  and  serve  by  cutting  through 
yolks  and  whites. 

French  Omelet. — Beat  thoroughly,  first,  the  yolks  and  then  the  whites 
of  the  eggs ;  to  the  yolks  add  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper;  turn  the  stiff  whites  into  the  yolks  and 
fold;  that  is,  stir  them  in  so  that  the  air  bubbles  shall  not  be  broken. 
Turn  carefully  into  a  frying  pan,  in  which  has  been  melted  a  large 
piece  of  butter.  Set  where  it  may  cook  very  slowly,  and  when  well 
browned  on  one  side  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  on  the  other.  Send  im- 
mediately to  the  table.  The  omelet  may  be  varied  by  dropping  chopped 
meat  in  it,  chopped  celery,  grated  cheese,  or,  if  a  sweet  omelet  is  de- 
sired, by  spreading  jelly  over  and  folding. 

Orange  Omelet. — Beat  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  add  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  beat  until  stiff;  mix  the  whites  lightly  with  the 
yolks,  sprinkling  in  at  the  same  time  three  tablespoonfuls  of  orange 
juice;  melt  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a  clean,  small  frying  pan  till 
the  bottom  is  greased;  turn  in  the  tgg  mixture;  cook  slowly,  turning 
the  pan  that  the  bottom  may  brown  evenly;  when  firm  on  the  bottom 
put  pan  in  a  hot  oven;  fold  in  half  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter; 
sprinkle  over  powdered  sugar. 

Pannikins. — Take  some  little  earthen  pans,  such  as  are  sold  for  toy 
milk  pans,  capable  of  holding  one  egg  only;  heat  them  in  the  oven,  and 
when  quite  hot  take  them  out,  and  with  a  paste  brush  butter  them  in- 
side; break  an  Q.gg  carefully  into  each  pan;  set  them  into  the  oven  until 
the  white  of  the  egg  is  hard  enough  to  retain  the  form  of  the  pan;  turn 
them  out  in  a  circle  on  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served.  On  the 
top  of  each  sprinkle  a  little  fresh  parsley  or  grated  ham;  have  ready  a 
sauce  of  bread  criHnbs  beaten  up  with  rich  gravy,  browned  and  seasoned; 
place  this  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  the  eggs  inclosing  it. 


lis  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Canadian  Poached  Eggs. — A  cupful  of  milk  is  brought  to  scalding 
point  in  a  shallow  granite  vessel,  and  into  this  the  eggs  are  gently  dropped, 
then  covered.  The  milk  is  not  allowed  to  boil,  merely  kept  at  the  scald- 
ing point.  The  eggs  will  be  ready  in  about  two  minutes,  with  the  yolk 
inside  of  a  beautiful  pearly  film.  Lift  them  out  carefully  with  a  skim- 
mer and  set  each  tgg  on  a  slice  of  buttered,  delicately-browned  toast. 
Add  to  the  hot  milk  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour  rubbed  smooth,  season  with  pepper  and  celery  salt,  beat  till 
creamy  and  pour  over  the  poached  eggs. 

Poached  Eggs  in  Glasses. — Add  a  few  grains  of  salt  to  the  white  of 
an  egg  (a  level  saltspoonful  to  five  eggs)  and  beat  until  dry;  turn  into 
a  buttered  glass  and  form  a  nest  on  the  top  for  the  yolk,  which  must 
be  ftcpt  whole.  Put  the  glass  on  a  trivet,  or  an  inverted  tin  cover,  in  a 
covered  dish  of  lukewarm  water,  letting  the  water  come  to  within  half 
an  inch  of  the  top  of  glasses,  and  let  cook  until  the  tgg  is  set  and  rises 
in  the  glass.  Do  not  allow  the  water  which  is  around  the  glass  to  boil. 
Serve  at  once.  Prepare  as  many  eggs  in  glasses  as  there  are  persons 
to   be   served.     Dainty   and   wholesome    for   invalids. 

Eggs  Poached  in  Tomato  Sauce. — Put  into  the  frying  pan  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour;  heat  until  frothy;  stir 
into  it  V/z  teacupful  of  tomato  (which  has  been  peeled  and  chopped 
fine  and  heated)  and  then  strain  into  the  frying  pan  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  heaping  saltspoonful  of  salt;  cook  until  creamy,  and  drop 
in  four  tggs,  baste  often,  and  when  whites  are  set  remove  and  put  each 
iigg  on  a  quarter  of  a  slice  of  buttered  toast  and  pour  sauce  around 
them. 

St.  Pancras  Eggs. — Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  five  eggs; 
keep  each  yolk  separate;  whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  a  salt- 
spoonful of  salt;  butter  five  small  cups,  put  the  whites  into  them  and 
carefully  drop  the  yolk  into  the  center  of  each ;  dust  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; place  the  cups  in  a  shallow  pan  of  hot  water,  put  in  the  oven  and 
bake  five  minutes,  or  till  the  whites  are  set.     Serve  in  the  cups. 

Egg  Salad. — Boil  six  eggs  perfectly  hard,  putting  them  on  in  cold 
water  and  cooking  10  minutes  after  this  reaches  the  boil,  that  the  yolks 
may  be  dry  and  mealy.  Cut  the  whites  in  two,  remove  carefully  and  rub 
the  yolks  to  a  paste  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  ham  or  chicken 
or  both,  10  drops  of  onion  juice,  a  saltspoonful  of  mustard,  a  table- 
spoonful of  melted  butter,  salt  to  taste  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika. 
Crowd  this  mixture  back  into  the  halved  whites,  cutting  a  bit  off  the  bot- 
tom of  each  cup,  that  it  may  stand  upright,  and  letting  the  newly  formed 
yolk  rise  above  the  edge  of  the  white  as  far  as  the  original  yolk  would 
have  done.  Arrange  these  on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  a  French 
dressing  or  with  boiled  salad  dressing. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  113 

Scalloped  Eggs.— Boil  eight  eggs  hard ;  put  in  cold  water  for  five 
minutes;  then  shell  and  cut  into  slices  with  very  sharp  knife;  put  a 
layer  in  small  buttered  baking  dish ;  sprinkle  with  fine  bread  crumbs. 
salted,  a  dash  of  pepper,  small  dots  of  butter;  fill  up  dish  in  this  man- 
ner, having  the  bread  crumbs  on  top  with  small  pieces  of  butter;  have 
ready  one  cupful  of  hot  milk,  into  which  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  has  been  well  stirred,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt;  pour  milk  over  eggs  and  crumbs;  put  in  a  quick  oven  for  15 
minutes ;   serve  in  baking  dish. 

Scrambled  Eggs. — Break  the  required  number  of  eggs  in  a  bowl ; 
beat  until  the  3'olks  are  broken.  Put  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut  in  a  frying  pan;  as  soon  as  it  is  melted  turn  in  the  eggs,  and 
b\\v  until  it  is  set.  Serve  immediately.  A  pleasing  change  is  made  in 
scrambled  eggs  by  stirring  in  a  little  potted  meat  or  finely  chopped  par- 
sley just  before  serving,  and  then  sprinkling  over  the  top  some  hot 
browned  bread  crumbs. 

Scotch  Woodcock. — Make  a  half-pint  of  cream  sauce,  using  one  and 
one-half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  flour  and  a  cupful  of  cream. 
Season  with  one-fourth  of  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  a  half- 
teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Shell  and  chop  fine  five  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  add  them  to  the  sauce,  cook  for  three  minutes  and  serve 
on  well-buttered  rounds  of  crisp  toast. 

Welsh  Rabbit. — Half  a  pound  of  cheese,  two  eggs,  a  speck  of  ca- 
yenne, a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  on  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Break  the  cheese 
in  small  pieces,  and  put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  double  boiler,  or  in  a 
pan  over  hot  water.  Stir  until  the  cheese  melts ;  then  spread  on  toast 
and   serve   at  once. 

Egg  Timbales. — Beat  four  eggs,  add  to  them  one  cup  of  milk,  half 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  four  dashes  of  pepper.  Pour  into  buttered  custard 
cups,  set  these  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  until  the 
timbales  are  set  in  the  center.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over 
them  a  cream  sauce  made  by  placing  half  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler;  rub  together  a  rounding  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour, 
stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk  until  it  thickens,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  four  dashes  of  pepper. 

Egg  Toast. — Butter  a  shallow  pudding  dish,  put  in  it  a  layer  of  toast, 
cut  into  narrow  scrips,  then  a  layer  of  hard-boiled  whites  of  eggs,  cut 
into  slices,  then  another  layer  of  toast.  Put  over  this  the  yolks  of  the 
hard-boiled  eggs,  riced  by  passing  through  a  vegetable  press ;  then  pour 
over  all  a  rich  cream  sauce  highly  seasoned,  and  place  in  the  oven  until 
it  is  well  browned. 


CHAPTER  X.    . 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus. — The  average  cook  rarely  tries  any  other  mode  than  boil- 
ing. Boil  the  stalks  whole,  after  careful  washing,  tying  in  a  bundle  to 
keep  from  breaking;  drain,  lay  upon  toast,  and  serve  with  cream  sauce. 
Another  way  is  to  cut  in  inch  lengths,  and  stew  in  milk,  thickening  with 
flour,  and  seasoning  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Asparagus  a  la  Vinaigrette. — Cook  as  for  boiled  asparagus.  While 
cooking  make  a  hot  French  dressing  by  mixing  together  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire  six  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  two  of  vinegar,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  French  mustard,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  When  the  asparagus  is  tender  drain,  put  in  a  deep  dish 
and  pour  over  it  the  hot  dressing.  Cover  and  set  aside  to  cool,  then 
stand  in  the  ice  chest  for  an  hour  or  so  before  serving. 

Baked  Beans  with  Cream. — Soak  and  parboil  a  pint  of  navy  beans 
until  half  cooked;  drain,  dash  over  a  quart  of  cold  water,  drain  again 
and  add  the  last  water  (boiling)  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  large  sprig  of  thyme  (minced),  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  beef  drippings  or  the  clean,  browned  trimmings  of  fat 
from  roast  beef,  and  fried  steak  may  be  used  instead  of  the  drippings; 
when  beans  are  cooked  tender  turn  all  into  a  covered  bean  pot  and 
bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  five  hours.  Then  pour  over  the  beans  a 
cupful  of  sweet  cream  and  bake  an  hour  longer. 

Baked  Beans  and  Tomato  Sauce. — Prepare  the  beans  as  for  ordinary 
baking,  by  soaking  and  parboiling;  then  put  in  a  crock,  with  the  pork, 
and  add  the  sauce,  which  should  be  prepared  while  the  beans  are  cook- 
ing. Some  cooks  merely  use  the  juice  from  a  can  of  tomatoes;  we  pre- 
fer to  use  some  of  the  solid  part,  too.  Stew  slowly,  put  through  a  sieve 
to  make  it  smooth,  and  flavor  with  salt,  pepper,  a  small  pinch  of  clove, 
a  little  mustard,  and,  if  desired,  a  shred  of  onion.  Do  not  thicken;  pour 
this  over  the  beans,  cover  and  bake.  Add  a  little'  water  from  time  to 
time  if  the  beans  seem  to  be  becoming  too  dry.  A  little  sugar  may  be 
added  to  the  sauce  if  the  family  taste  approves. 

String  Beans  and  Bacon. — Cut  one  or  two  slices  of  tender  mild-cured 
bacon  in  tiny  cubes  and  cook  to  a  delicate  brown  in  the  frying  pan. 
Add  a  pint  of  hot  cooked  and  drained  string  beans  and  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice.  Shake  the  frying  pan  thoroughly.  Add  salt  and  pepper  as 
needed  and  turn  into  a  hot  dish.     Peas  may  be  served  in  the  same  way. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  115 

Lyonnaise  Beets. — Two  cupfuls  of  boiled  beets  cut  into  half-inch 
dice,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half 
the  quantity  of  pepper.  Put  all  of  the  ingredients  except  the  beets  into 
a  double  boiler.  When  well  heated  add  the  beets,  stir  for  a  few  min- 
utes that  they  may  absorb  the  dressing  and  serve  very  hot. 

Baked  Summer  Cabbage. — Cut  into  quarters  and  boil  tender  in  salt 
and  water  two  medium-sized  heads  of  cabbage,  drain  and  chop.  Ar- 
range an  inch  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  black 
pepper,  then  crumb  in  a  layer  of  stale  bread.  Drop  small  bits  of  butter 
over  the  bread  crumbs.  Repeat  the  process  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full, 
bread  coming  on  top.  Then  pour  over  the  whole  one  pint  of  rich  milk 
or  thin  cream,  and  bake  until  nicely  browned. 

Baked  Cabbage  With  Cheese. — Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  for  15  min- 
utes in  salted  water,  then  change  the  water  for  more  that  is  boiling,  and 
boil  until  tender.  Drain  and  when  cool  chop  fine.  Butter  a  baking 
ilish,  and  lay  in  the  chopped  cabbage.  Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter 
>n  a  frying  pan;  when  it  bubbles  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one 
half-pint  of  stock,  same  of  boiling  water;  stir  until  smooth.  Then 
season  with  saltspoonful  salt,  half  as  much  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls 
grated  cheese.  Pour  over  the  cabbage,  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  the 
top,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  10  minutes. 

Browned  Cabbage. — One  small  cabbage,  one  tablespoonful  of  buttter, 
half  a  cupful  of  milk,  two  eggs  and  bread  crumbs.  Cut  the  cabbage  into 
small  pieces  and  remove  the  hard  center.  Wash  the  pieces  in  cold  wa- 
ter ;  then  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let  stand  for  10  minutes. 
Drain  off  the  hot  water  and  put  the  cabbage  in  boiling  salted  water  to 
cook  until  tender.  When  it  is  done  pour  off  the  water,  pressing  down 
hard  on  the  cabbage,  to  be  sure  that  all  the  water  has  been  drained  away. 
Chop  as  fine  as  possible,  beat  up  the  eggs,  add  the  milk  and  stir  all  the 
ingredients  and  seasoning  with  the  cabbage.  Put  the  whole  into  a  but- 
tered baking  dish  and  bake  for  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Red  Cabbage,  German  Style. — Slice  red  cabbage  thin,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  let  soak  20  minutes ;  then  drain.  Put  one  quart  in  a  stew 
pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion  and  a  few  gratings  each  of  nut- 
meg and  cayenne.  Cover,  and  cook  until  the  cabbage  is  tender;  then 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  one-half  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
and  cook  five  minutes. 

Carrot  Ragout. — Clean  and  scrape  enough  new  carrots  to  measure  a 
pint ;  take  the  same  quantity  of  new  potatoes  and  white  turnips,  cutting 
them  in  pieces  about  the  size  of  the  carrots.  Cut  a  half  cupful  of  leeks 
in  fine  slices,     Cook  the  carrots  in  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour  and  the 


116  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

other  vegetables  separately  for  10  minutes.  In  a  frying  pan  brown 
slowly  together  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  or  dripping  and  flour; 
add  gradually  one  pint  of  stock  or  water  and  stir  until  thick  and  smooth. 
Season  with  a  level  tablespoon! ul  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  add  the  vegetables,  cover 
and  simmef  gently  for  half  an  hour,  and  before  serving  stir  into  it  a 
tablespoonful  of  parsley. 

Baked  Corn. — One  quart  corn  scraped  from  cob;  one  and  one-third 
cupful  cream.;  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.     Bake  one  hour. 

Baked  Corn  and  Tomatoes. — Fill  an  earthen  pudding  dish  with  alter- 
nate layers  of  corn  and  tomatoes,  each  about  an  inch  thick.  Season  each 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  When  the  dish  is  full  sprinkle  with  grated 
bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Cover  the  dish  with  a  plate  and  bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  20  minutes.  Then  remove  the  cover  and 
bake  15  minutes  longer. 

Corn  Chowder. — Cut  the  kernels  from  a  dozen  ears  of  green  corn. 
Peel  and  mince  two  onions  and  fry  them  brown  in  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  in  a  deep  saucepan.  Now  put  in  the  corn,  four  broken  pilot 
biscuits,  add  a  half  dozen  parboiled  and  sliced  potatoes.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and  cover  with  a 
quart  of  boilmg  water.  Let  all  cook  gently  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
then  stir  in  slowly  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk,  thickened  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour  rubbed  into  one  of  butter.     Turn  at  once  into  a  heated  tureen. 

Escalloped  Corn. — Into  a  buttered  dish  put  a  layer  of  green  corn  pulp, 
sprinkling  with  salt  and  bits  of  butter.  Over  this  spread  a  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs,  seasoned  and  moistened  slightly  with  milk.  Fill  the  dish 
with  alternate  layers  of  corn  and  cracker  crumbs,  with  crackers  for  top 
layer  and  plenty  of  milk  over  the  whole.     Cover  and  bake  one  hour. 

Hulled  Corn. — New  England  taste  demands  a  well-ripened  white  flint 
corn  for  hulling,  other  sections  prefer  yellow,  but  it  is  always  flint  corn. 
Babbitt's  potash  is  used  to  remove  the  hulls,  the  proportion  being  one 
full  pound  to  a  bushel  of  corn.  Of  course,  when  preparing  corn  for 
home  use,  the  same  proportion  would  be  observed  in  smaller  quantities. 
An  iron  kettle  half  filled  with  water  is  put  on  the  stove,  the  potash  added 
when  the  water  warms,  and  the  corn  put  in  when  it  comes  to  a  boil.  In 
about  an  hour  the  starch  will  come  out  of  the  corn,  thickening  the  lye. 
The  corn  must  be  well  stirred  from  the  bottom,  to  avoid  burning,  and 
the  kettle  kept  back  on  the  stove,  so  the  corn  will  simmer  without  boiling 
hard.  After  the  first  hour  corn  must  be  dipped  out  and  tested  in  cold 
water,  to  see  if  the  hulls  slip.  If  left  in  the  potash  too  long  it  becomes 
dark  and  sodden;  if  too  short,  it  cannot  be  cooked  tender.  About  1^  to 
two  hours  is  the  usual  time.     The  corn  is  theo  washed  in  clear  water. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  117 

When  made  in  large  quantities  a  clean,  new  broom,  with  about  six  inches 
of  the  straw  cut  off,  is  used  to  rub  off  the  hulls;  a  stiff  whisk  would 
answer  the  same  purpose  with  small  quantities.  A  quantity  of  water  will 
be  used  during  this  scrubbing,  the  hulls  being  poured  off  with  the  water. 
Put  the  corn  on  to  boil  in  clear  water;  when  it  reaches  the  boiling  point 
draw  it  back,  so  that  it  may  simmer.  It  should  not  be  stirred,  as  this 
makes  it  mushy.  It  requires  long,  slow  simmering;  when  sufficiently 
cooked  it  may  be  salted  to  taste,  and  drained  in  a  colander.  When 
served  it  is  either  eaten  with  milk,  or  warmed  up  with  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  and  served  like  a  vegetable.  In  the  Summer  hulled  corn  would 
ferment  very  quickl}^,  so  its  manufacture  takes  place  only  after  hard  freez- 
ing has  started  in  the  Fall. 

Hulled  corn  may  also  be  prepared  as  follows :  Wash  two  quarts  of 
shelled  corn  to  remove  loose  bits ;  then  place  in  a  large  iron  kettle  with 
two  heaping  tablespoons  of  saleratus,  cover  with  cold  water,  let  come 
to  a  boil  slowly  and  cook  about  an  hour.  Remove  the  kettle  from  fire, 
drain  off  the  water,  then  pour  the  corn,  from  which  the  hulls  will  already 
be  loosened,  into  a  large  pan  of  water.  Rub  the  corn  between  the  hands 
to  loosen  the  hulls;  after  taking  off  all  those  partly  loosened  put  it  on 
again  in  warm  water,  let  boil  about  half  an  hour,  then  try  to  remove 
the  rest  of  the  hulls  by  rubbing  as  before.  After  all  hulls  are  removed, 
wash  the  corn  in  at  least  half  a  dozen  clear  waters,  then  put  on  once 
more  in  warm  water,  and  when  it  boils  drain  and  add  fresh  water.  Let 
the  corn  cook  in  this  last  water  until  tender,  salting  to  taste.  If  the 
hulls  do  not  come  off  readily  let  the  corn  boil  an  hour  longer,  adding  a 
teaspoon  more  saleratus. 

Corn  Pudding. — Two  coffeecupfuls  of  green  corn  pulp,  one  cupful  of 
new  milk,  three  eggs,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Pour  one 
pint  of  the  m.ilk  over  the  corn  and  set  on  the  fire  until  scalding  hot.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add  the  pint  of  cold  milk  and  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar.  Put  the  butter  in  the  corn  over  the  fire,  and  then  add  the  milk 
and  yolks  of  eggs  and  a  little  salt.  Put  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and 
bake  slowly.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  powdered 
sugar  and  spread  over  the  top  when  pudding  is  done,  browning  slightly. 

Succotash. — Cook  one  pint  of  corn  pulp  in  as  little  water  as  you  can 
without  scorching.  Put  the  cobs  in  a  quart  of  water  and  boil  hard  for 
20  minutes ;  remove  cobs  and  in  this  water  boil  one  pint  of  shelled  beans 
until  tender;  drain  and  mix  with  the  corn.  Add  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  pepper,  salt  and  half  a  cupful  of  thick  cream,  more  if  liked. 
Serve  hot. 

Baked  Egg  Plant. — Select  one  that  is  firm  and  fresh,  peel  it  and  cut 
it  into  quarters.  Let  it  lie  half  an  hour  in  salted  water.  Put  it  into  boil- 
ing water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.    Cook  until  it  can  be  easily  pierced 


118  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

with  a  fork.  While  the  plant  is  cooking  cut  one  medium-sized  onion 
into  small  pieces  and  cover  it  with  salt  water.  In  10  minutes  pour  off  the 
water  and  put  the  chopped  onion  into  a  hot  pan,  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Cook  until  it  is  thoroughly  tender  and  brown.  Drain  the  tgg 
plant  in  a  colander,  put  into  a  bowl,  stir  with  a  silver  fork  until  it  is 
broken  up,  but  not  mashed.  Mix  with  it  an  equal  quantity  of  rolled 
bread  crumbs,  add  the  browned  onion  and  one  well-beaten  tgg.  Season 
with  a  dash  of  salt,  two  dashes  of  pepper,  and  add  a  dessertspoonful  of 
butter.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  earthen  dish,  bake  just 
long  enough  to  be  nicely  browned.  Serve  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked. 

Dutch  Hutspot. — Boil  six  carrots  with  six  onions  (medium  size)  one 
hour,  or  until  tender.  In  another  kettle  boil  six  medium-sized  potatoes 
until  done.  Drain  all  the  water  from  both,  put  them  together,  mash  them 
well,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one-half  cupful  of  butter  and  one-half 
cupful  of  milk  or  cream.     Beat  well  and  serve  hot. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. — The  macaroni  is  first  put  into  boiling  salted 
water  and  cooked  tender — a  half  hour  or  less — then  it  is  drained,  and 
rinsed  with  cold  water,  and  cut  in  convenient  pieces.  A  buttered  pudding 
dish  is  then  filled  with  alternate  layers  of  the  macaroni  and  chopped  or 
grated  cheese,  perhaps  a  cupful  of  the  cheese  to  a  quart  of  the  cooked 
macaroni.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fill  the  dish  with  milk,  and  cover 
with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  a  little  melted  butter  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  nearly  an  hour,  or  till  the  macaroni  absorbs  most 
of  the  milk. 

Macaroni,  Italian  Style. — Four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half 
pound  of  macaroni,  an  onion,  parsley,  herbs,  tomato  catsup  and  spice. 
Put  in  a  pan  one  tablespoonful  each  of  finely-chopped  onion,  parsley  and 
rosemary;  fry  in  bubbling  butter  until  well  browned;  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  some  mixed  spice,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  one  quart  of  boiling  water;  put  in  macaroni  broken  into 
medium-sized  pieces ;  frequently  shake  the  pan  and  stew  over  a  slow  fire 
until  the  macaroni  is  tender.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  pouring  the  sauce 
over.     Sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese. 

Okra,  Creole  Style. — Wash,  trim  and  cut  into  slices  a  quart  of  young, 
tender  okra;  place  in  a  granite  saucepan  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  a 
medium-sized  onion,  a  medium-sized  green  pepper,  both  minced  fine;  stir 
over  the  fire  until  a  golden  brown,  then  add  three  large  tomatoes  peeled 
and  cut  into  pieces,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Spanish  or  some  hot  pepper 
sauce  and  salt  to  taste,  and  the  okra.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  simmer 
gently  for  half  an  hour.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and  sprinkle  over  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley  and  serve. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  119 

Baked  Onions. — Peel  and  cut  in  thick  slices  large  white  onions.  Par- 
boil in  plenty  of  salted  water,  drain  well,  arrange  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  until  soft  and  a  pale  yellow. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover  with  a  half-inch  layer  of  grated 
crumbs  thickly  dredged  with  grated  cheese.  Return  to  the  oven  long 
enough  to  melt  the  cheese. 

Escalloped  Onions. — Slice  some  onions  and  cook  in  salted  water  until 
done,  drain  and  put  layers  of  onion  and  cracker  crumbs  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter  in  pudding  dish;  moisten  with  milk.  Bake  20  to 
30  minutes. 

Baked  Split  Peas. — Rub  a  large  baking  dish  with  onion.  Turn  into 
this  a  pint  of  split  peas  soaked  until  soft.  Chop  a  large  onion  very  fine 
and  spread  over  the  top  of  the  peas  with'  pepper  and  salt.  If  you  have 
left  over  gravy  or  stock  pour  it  over  the  mixture.  If  not,  cover  with 
water,  spreading  over  all  bacon  cut  into  the  thinnest  possible  slices.  Bake 
in  the  oven  for  two  hours  and  add  a  little  boiling  water  if  the  peas  get 
too  dry. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. — Old  potatoes  are  better  for  this,  or  the  little 
yellowish  potatoes  that  German  cooks  use  for  potato  salad.  These  con- 
tain more  gluten.  Peel  very  thin  and  cut  in  long  thin  strips  lengthwise. 
Let  them  stand  in  cold  salted  water  for  two  or  three  hours.  Drain  and 
wipe  dry;  put  into  a  wire  basket  and  fry  in  very  hot,  deep  fat  until  brown. 
Take  out  and  lay  on  a  piece  of  manila  paper  to  absord  the  fat;  dust  with 
salt  and  serve.  Another  way  to  fry  potatoes  is  to  put  a  little  olive  oil  in 
a  deep  frying  pan ;  when  very  hot  add  sliced  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Cover, 
and  cook  until  a  golden  brown,  turning  once.  Drain,  put  in  a  hot  vege- 
table dish  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Still  another 
way,  that  the  French  chef  delights  in,  is  to  chop  cold  boiled  potatoes,  then 
season  lightly  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice.  Put  a  couple  of  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil  or  good  drippings  in  the  frying  pan,  turn  in  the 
potatoes,  press  into  a  solid  cake  and  cook  slowly  until  crusty  and  brown 
on  the  under  side.  Turn  on  to  a  hot  platter,  with  the  brown  side  upper- 
most. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin. — Peel  and  cut  into  dice  half  a  dozen  potatoes, 
crisp  in  cold  water,  then  drain,  and  boil  until  tender.  Drain  the  water 
off,  put  the  potatoes  in  a  baker,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  stir  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  through  the  pieces,  pour  over  them  half  a  cup  of  milk, 
cover  the  top  with  grated  cheese,  bake  quickly  and  serve  hot. 

Potato  Chowder. — Wash  and  pare  four  large  potatoes.  Cut  them 
into  small  dice.  Chop  fine  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham  and  one  good- 
sized  onion.  Slowly  fry  the  ham  and  onion  together  until  a  light  brown, 
then  in  a  saucepan  put  alternate  layers  of  the  ham  and  diced  potato, 
seasoning  well  with  salt  and  pepper.     Add  one  tablespoonful   of  finely- 


120  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

chopped  parsley  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover  and  simmer  slowly 
until  the  potatoes  are  tender,  which  will  take  about  twenty  minutes.  In 
a  second  saucepan  thicken  two  cupfuls  of  milk  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  simmer  for  a  moment,  add  it 
to  the  chowder  and  let  cook  for  two  minutes  longer. 

Potato  Dumplings. — Boil  six  large  potatoes  and  mash,  seasoning  with 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Place  on  a  board.  Add  to  this  one  tgg  and 
one-half  cupful  flour;  knead  into  a  dough.  Roll  out  into  strips,  one-half 
inch  thick,  and  cut  into  inch  lengths.  Sprinkle  the  pieces  with  flour,  so 
that  they  are  quite  dry.  Place  enough  of  the  dumplings  in  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water  to  allow  them  freedom  to  swim,  and  allow  them  to  boil 
about  eight  minutes.  Remove  the  dumplings  from  the  water,  with  a 
perforated  spoon,  to  a  hot  frying  pan,  in  which  one  cupful  bread  crumbs 
have  been  browned  in  about  two  tablespoonfuls  butter.  All  of  the  dump- 
lings can  be  placed  in  the  pan  at  the  same  time.  They  should  be  stirred 
from  time  to  time,  until  nicely  browned,  keeping  a  small  fire  under  the 
pan.     Serve  hot. 

German  Sour  Potatoes. — Boil  four  good-sized  potatoes.  When  done 
and  cold,  skin  and  cut  into  cubes.  Place  these  in  a  bowl  and  add  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Now  mix  in  another  bowl  half  a  pint  of.  sweet  oil 
and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cider  vinegar,  one  good-sized  onion, 
grated  fine  and  sprigs  of  parsley  finely  chopped.  Mix  these  together  well 
and  pour  over  the  potatoes.  Now  place  the  empty  bowl  on  top  of  the 
full  one  and  shake  up  and  down  until  well  mixed.  Garnish  the  dish  with 
lemon  slices,  cut  in  halves. 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes. — Cut  or  chop  finely  a  quart  of  cold  baked 
or  boiled  potatoes  and  put  them  down  in  a  frying  pan  in  which  has  been 
dissolved  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  an  equal  quantity  of  tried-out  suet 
or  beef  dripping.  Let  the  potatoes  simmer  in  this  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt;  have  the  pan  covered.  When  the  potatoes  seem  rich  and  moist 
throughout  and  browned  underneath  add  a  sprinkling  of  finely-minced 
parsley  and  with  a  large,  flexible  knife  loosen  the  potatoes  from  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan,  turning  the  sides  over  toward  the  middle  as  in  making 
an  omelet,  and  slip  them  carefully  on  to  the  serving  dish.  For  a  pint  of 
potatoes  use  half  the  quantity  of  butter  and  drippings. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. — Put  I'yi  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan; 
when  melted  add  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion;  let  it  slightly 
color,  then  add  two  cupfuls  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  dice.  Stir 
until  the  potato  has  absorbed  all  the  butter  and  become  slightly  browned; 
then  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 
Mix  well  and  serve  very  hot. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. — Peel  and  slice  very  thin  one  medium-sized  potato 
for  each  person  to  be  served,  and  allow  the  slices  to  remain  in  cold  water 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  121 

till  crisp.  Prepare  as  you  would  scalloped  oysters  with  cracker  crumbs 
and  salt  and  pepper  sprinkled  over  each  layer,  and  small  dots  of  butter. 
Cover  the  top  of  the  pan  with  crumbs  and  carefully  pour  on  sweet  milk 
almost  to  cover  without  disturbing  the  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  two  hours 
and  a  half  in  a  steady  oven,  removing  cover  from  pan  during  last  half 
hour.  It  is  better  to  use  your  thickest,  heaviest  kettle  cover  or  earthen- 
ware pie  pan  for  the  first  hour  in  the  oven. 

Spaghetti  with  Brown  Sauce. — Put  a  half  pound  of  spaghetti  into 
slightly-salted  boiling  water.  Boil  half  an  hour,  drain  and  pour  into  a 
buttered  granite  pan.  Pour  over  it  the  following  brown  sauce :  Heat 
three  tablespoonfuls  butter,  stir  into  this  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir 
till  smooth.  Draw  to  a  cooler  place  on  the  stove  and  add  gradually  one 
cupful. cold  water,  stirring  constantly.  Let  it  boil  up,  add  one  r  ant  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  catsup, 
simmer  two  or  three  minutes,  pour  over  spaghetti,  set  it  into  the  oven 
and  let  it  bake  10  or  15  minutes. 

Squash  Puff. — Press  dry  cooked  squash  through  a  sieve;  to  a  half  pint 
add  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  quarter  of  a  cup  of  milk,  seasoning 
of  salt  and  pepper,  and  two  beaten  o^gg  yolks.  Mix  thoroughly,  fold  in 
two  beaten  tgg  whites,  and  turn  into  a  buttered  mold,  set  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  the  center  is  firm.  Serve  turned 
from  the  mold  and  accompanied  by  a  rich  cream  sauce  made  from  one 
tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  butter  with  a  cup  of  scalded  cream  or  rich 
milk  and  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt  and  mace.  This  can  be 
baked  in  individual  molds  if  desired. 

Scalloped  Squash. — Two  cupfuls  of  boiled  squash  run  through  a 
colander,  and  then  let  cool ;  two  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
half  a  cup  of  milk;  pepper  and  salt;  half  a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs.  Beat 
eggs,  butter  and  milk  and  squash  light ;  season ;  pour  into  a  buttered  bake 
dish,  sift  crumbs  over  it  and  bake,  covered,  half  an  hour;  then  brown 
lightly. 

Stewed  Summer  Squash. — Wash,  pare,  cut  into  pieces  after  removing 
the  seeds,  cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  until  tender ;  drain  and  press 
dry,  salt  slightly  and  serve  on  golden-browned  toast  with  a  cream  dress- 
ing made  as  follows :  Into  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk  stir  one  teaspoonful 
of  cornstarch,  let  boil  until  slightly  thickened,  then  pour  it  over  the  toast 
and  squash. 

Sweet  Potato,  Southern  Style. — Peel  and  boil  until  they  are  thoroughly 
but  not  too  well  cooked.  Then  they  should  be  cut  into  four  pieces  length- 
wise and  placed  in  a  tin  baking  pan.  Butter  and  sugar  should  be  placed 
over  the  potatoes  abundantly  before  they  are  put  in  the  oven  to  bake 
slowly.  After  a  while,  the  butter  and  sugar  mingling  with  the  juice  of 
the  potatoes,  forms  a  delicate  crust  that  should  be  cooked  until  it  has 


123  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

almost  reached  the  point  at  which  it  is  candy.  Under  this  crust  is  a 
thick,  rich  syrup  of  the  sap  of  the  potatoes,  sugar  and  butter. 

Stuffed  Sweet  Potatoes. — Select  large,  fine  potatoes  of  uniform  size. 
Bake  them  soft,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  burn.  With  a  sharp  knife 
cut  a  slit  lengthwise  in  each  and  scrape  out  the  inside,  breaking  the  skin 
as  little  as  possible.  Put  the  pulp  into  a  bowl;  work  into  it  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  enough  hot  milk  to  make  a  soft  paste;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Beat  light,  and  fill  the  emptied 
skins  with  the  mixture.  Bring  the  cut  edges  neatly  together,  and  set  the 
potatoes  back  in  the  oven  to  reheat.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish  lined  with  a 
heated  napkin. 

Baked  Tomatoes,  Italian  Style. — Pour  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil 
into  a  baking  dish.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread  crumbs 
that  have  already  been  mixed  with  parsley  and  other  herbs,  all  of  which 
must  have  been  chopped  very  fine.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Upon 
this  bed  of  oil  and  crumbs  lay  a  dozen  tomatoes  that  have  been  cut  in 
halves.  Cover  them  with  four  more  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs  that 
have  previously  been  seasoned  in  the  same  way.  Pour  over  all  two  more 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil  and  send  the  dish  to  a  hot  oven,  where  the  tomatoes 
must  bake  for  about  one  hour. 

Panned  Tomatoes. — These  are  excellent  served  with  roast  meats.  Put 
in  a  pan  with  two  ounces  of  butter  six  firm  tomatoes  that  have  been  cut 
in  halves.  Cook  slowly  on  the  top  of  the  range  for  10  minutes,  then 
brown  quickly  in  the  oven.  Remove  the  tomatoes  to  a  hot  platter,  and 
make  a  sauce  by  adding  to  the  browned  butter  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  and  after  it  is  rubbed  smooth  one  pint  of  milk.  Stir  until  boiling. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  Garnish 
with   parsley   and   points   of   toast. 

Scallop  of  Tomatoes  and  Potatoes. — Season  a  pint  of  peeled  and 
chopped  tomatoes  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice  to  suit  the  taste,  and 
add  enough  potatoes  to  make  a  cupful  when  chopped  fine.  Butter  a  baking 
dish  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  put  in  half  of  the  tomatoes; 
then  a  layer  of  soft  crackers,  buttered  and  broken  in  coarse  bits.  Cover 
the  crackers  with  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  American  cheese. 
Then  add  the  remainder  of  the  tomatoes,  more  cracker  crumbs  and  bits 
of  butter  and  place  in  a  hot  oven.     Bake  20  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

CANNING      AND      PRESERVING. 

This  chapter  does  not  aim  to  cover  the  entire  ground,  but  to  give 
briefly  the  experience  of  other  housewives,  which  may  include  some  in- 
formation not  generally  found  in  print.  There  are  still  many  housewives 
who  laboriously  can  fruit  by  cooking  it  in  a  kettle,  and  then  lifting  it 
into  the  jars;  we  make  preserves  in  that  way,  but  our  canned  fruit 
is  packed  into  jars,  covered  with  hot  syrup,  and  then  cooked  by  standing 
the  jars  in  water  in  a  wash  boiler.  Instead  of  putting  odd  pieces  .of  bbard 
in  the  bottom  of  the  boiler  to  rest  the  jars  on,  have  a  board  made  to  fit, 
with  three  cleats  across  it  underneath  and  a  number  of  auger  holes  bored 
in  it  so  that  the  water  passes  through.  We  usually  put  enough  water  to 
come  half  way  up  the  jars,  but  some  housekeepers  elevate  the  jars  above 
the  water  and  cover  the  boiler  closely,  thus  cooking  the  fruit  in  the  steam. 
Of  course  there  are  cooking  kettles  made  for  this  purpose  which  are 
more  convenient  than  a  wash  boiler. 

Fruit  is  canned  without  sugar  after  the  following  method:  Fill  the 
jars  with  fruit;  then  pour  in  as  much  water  as  they  will  hold;  adjust  the 
rubbers;  lay  the  lids  carefully  on  top  without  fastening  them  down;  stand 
the  jars  in  a  wash  boiler,  the  bottom  of  which  has  been  protected  with  a 
rack;  surround  them  with  cold  water;  put  the  lid  on  the  boiler;  bring  to 
boiling  point  and  boil  strawberries,  blackberries,  raspberries  and  currants 
for  twenty  minutes;  cherries,  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  pineapples, 
for  half  an  hour;  peaches  and  pears,  for  half  an  hour.  Strawberries  and 
raspberries  are  better  without  water.  Fill  the  jars  with  fruit,  bring  them 
to  boiling  point,  and  when  the  fruit  shrinks  or  settles  you  may  fill  two 
jars  from  a  third;  put  them  back  in  the  boiler;  cook  for  five  or  10 
minutes  longer  and  then  fasten  on  the  lids.  Seal  the  jars.  Lift  the  jars 
one  at  a  time  and  screw  on  the  lids  without  lifting  them.  Wipe  the  jars, 
put  them  into  a  cool  place  out  of  the  draught.  Next  morning  give  each 
lid  a  turn  and  store  in  a  cool  dark  place. 

Canned  fruit  may  also  be  cooked  in  the  oven.  Pack  the  prepared 
fruit  in  the  jars,  fill  up  with  hot  syrup,  and  lay  the  cover  on  top  of  the 
jar  without  fastening.  Place  in  the  oven,  setting  in  a  dripping-pan  holding 
about  two  inches  of  water,  or  on  a  strip  of  asbestos.  The  oven  should  be 
moderately  hot.  Cook  the  fruit  10  or  15  minutes,  dependent  again  upon 
the  fruit,  then  lift  from  the  oven,  one  can  at  a  time,  fill  to  overflowing 
with  the  scalding  syrup,  running  the  blade  of  a  silver  knife  around  the 
edge  of  the  can  to  allow  for  the  escape  of  all  air-bubbles,  then  wipe  and 


124  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

screw  as  tightly  as  possible.  Set  the  jars  on  a  thickly  folded  newspaper, 
out  of  a  draft,  until  the  fruit  has  cooled,  then  tighten  again. 

The  following  method  is  highly  recommended  for  small  fruits :  Look 
over  the  fruit  carefully,  using  only  that  which  is  perfect.  Place  in  glass 
jars,  that  are  also  perfect.  Shake  down  the  fruit,  but  do  not  press  down. 
Have  ready  enough  hot  syrup  to  cover  the  fruit.  Fill  the  can  full  of  the 
syrup,  including  the  fruit  already  in.  Screw  on  the  cover  tightly,  and 
drop  into  a  pail  of  boiling  water.  Be  sure  that  the  water  is  boiling,  and 
that  it  covers  the  can  well.  Remove  the  pail  to  the  table  or  some  other 
convenient  place;  when  the  water  is  cool,  take  out  the  can,  screw  down 
the  cover,  if  it  is  not  tight,  label,  wrap  in  brown  paper,  and  put  away  in 
the  fruit  cupboard. 

Some  firm  fruits,  and  also  rhubarb,  may  be  canned  without  cooking, 
being  packed  into  the  bottle,  v/hich  is  then  filled  with  cold  water.  The 
jar  is  filled  to  overflowing,  and  any  air  bubbles  removed  by  running  the 
blade  of  a  silver  knife  down  the  side ;  it  is  then  sealed  tightly  and  stored 
in  a  cool  dark  place. 

Try  to  avoid  beet  sugar  when  making  jelly.  We  have  never  succeeded 
in  hardening  a  fruit  jelly  made  with  beet  sugar,  and  many  exasperating 
cases  of  jelly  that  won't  "jell"  are  due  to  this  cause.  Marian  Harland 
says  that  many  years  ago  she  v/as  advised  to  use  one-fifth  more  beet  sugar 
than  a  recipe  called  for  when  cane  sugar  was  used. 

Almack's  Preserves. — This  is  a  foreign  recipe.  Peel  and  stone  one 
quart  of  large  ripe  plums;  peel  and  slice  one  dozen  apples  and  one  dozen 
pears.  Arrange  in  an  earthen  jar  in  alternate  layers,  adding  one  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Set  on  back  of  range  on  an  asbestos 
mat  and  simmer  slowly  until  a  little  when  cooled  on  ice  shows  it  to  be 
of  such  a  firm  consistency  that  it  can  be  cut  with  a  knife,  for  it  is  to  be 
served  cut  in  slices.  When  sufficiently  cooked  put  away  in  a  shallow  jar 
from  which  it  will  be  easy  to  cut  it  out.  Seal  like  jelly,  with  paraffin 
before  covering. 

Preserved  Ginger. — Clean  and  wash  some  fine  green  ginger  roots,  let 
them  lie  several  hours  in  cold  water,  drain  and  place  the  roots  in  la 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  cook  20  minutes ;  drain  and  rinse  off  with  oold 
water;  return  the  ginger  to  the  kettle,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water  and 
cook  until  the  ginger  is  soft;  drain  and  put  in  cold  water.  Next  day 
drain  the  roots  in  a  sieve  and  weigh  them;  allow  for  each  pound  one 
pound  of  sugar  and  one-half  pint  of  water ;  boil  sugar  and  water  five 
minutes,  add  the  ginger,  boil  a  few  minutes,  remove  and  pour  the  ginger 
in  a  bowl.  Twelve  hours  later  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  it  three  minutes 
and  pour  it  over  the  ginger ;  repeat  this  twice  more.  Then  drain  off  all 
the  syrup,  place  over  the  fire,  boil  to  a  soft  ball,  add  the  ginger,  cook  two 
minutes   and   fill   into   jars. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  125 

Canned  Baked  Apples, — Select  good  tart  cooking  apples ;  wash,  remove 
the  blossom  end,  but  do  not  peel.  Arrange  in  a  baking  pan  with  hot 
water  to  half  fill  the  pan.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  bits  of  sweet  butter,  and 
a  dash  of  any  spice  if  desired,  and  bake  until  tender.  Can  while  hot,  using 
the  juice  in  which  they  were  baked.  Stand  the  jar  in  hot  water  30 
minutes  before  wanted  for  use,  and  you  will  have  perfect  baked  apples 
for  breakfast.  Pears  canned  the  same  way  are  fine,  or  pears  with  thinly 
sliced  quince  scattered  among  them. 

Canned  Porter  Apples. — Wipe,  quarter,  core  and  peel  the  apples,  then 
weigh  them.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  for  10  minutes  one-third  the  weight 
of  the  apples  in  granulated  sugar  with  water,  the  proportion  being  2V2 
cupfuls  of  water  to  one  pound  of  sugar.  Cook  the  apples  slowly  in  the 
syrup  until  soft;  do  not  crowd  them.  Skim  out  the  apples  carefully  into 
jars,  cover  with  the  boiling  syrup,  and  seal. 

Apple  Ginger. — Tie  a  little  ginger  root  in  a  bag.  A  quarter  of  a  pound 
will  do  for  eight  pounds  of  apples.  Put  the  bag  of  ginger  into  three 
pints  of  cold,  clear  water.  When  the  water  is  highly  flavored  add  about 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  apples.  The  three 
pints  of  water  will  be  sufficient  for  six  pounds  of  sugar.  Add  the  juice 
of  two  lemons,  laying  aside  the  yellow  peel  cut  in  shreds.  Clarify  the 
syrup  by  allowing  it  to  cool  after  it  has  cooked  five  minutes  and  mixing 
the  white  of  two  eggs  and  the  shells  in  the  cooled  syrup.  Return  the 
syrup  to  the  fire,  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  then  draw  to  the  back  of  the 
stove.  A  scum  will  cover  it.  Strain  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  the 
yellow  peel  of  the  lemons  and  put  in  quarters  of  apples.  As  soon  as 
cooked,  lift  them  out  and  put  in  more.  Place  the  apples  into  jars  and 
pour  the  syrup  over  them. 

Apple  Orange  Marmalade. — Core  and  slice  20  large  tart  apples.  Allow 
for  every  quart  one  pint  of  water.  Add  the  thin  peel  of  one  orange,  cover 
and  boil  until  tender.  Place  a  sieve  over  a  bowl,  pour  in  the  apples  and 
let  drain  without  disturbing.  Allow  for  each  pint  one  pound  of  sugar. 
Peel  four  large  oranges,  remove  white  part  and  seeds  and  set  aside.  Boil 
apple  juice  till  very  thick,  add  orange  cut  into  small  pieces  and  cook  until 
a  drop  retains  its  shape  on  a  plate.  Put  in  glass  jars  and  cover  like 
jelly.    The  apple  pulp  may  be  used  in  pies. 

Preserved  Apples. — Pare  and  core  fine,  ripe  pippins,  and  cut  them  into 
quarters.  Weight  and  to  each  pound  allow  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar 
and  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  the  grated  rind  of  one  and  the  juice  of 
two  lemons.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  clear  (about  three  minutes), 
skimming  the  scum  from  the  surface,  add  the  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemons, 
then  the  apples,  and  simmer  gently  until  they  are  clear  and  tender,  but 
not  broken,  then  stand  aside  to  cool.    When  cold,  put  them  into  jars,  cover 


126  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

closely  and  stand  in  a  cool,  dark  place  for  one  week.  At  the  end  of  that 
time  turn  them  carefully  into  the  kettle,  bring  them  to  boiling  point,  and 
simmer  for  five  minutes,  then  return  them  to  the  jars,  cover  closely  with 
tissue  paper  brushed  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  put  in  a  dark, 
cool  place  to  keep.     Apples  are  more  difficult  to  keep  than  any  other  fruit. 

Blackberry  cheese  is  an  old-fashioned  but  excellent  recipe.  Three  pounds 
apples,  peeled  and  cored ;  three  pounds  blackberries.  To  each  pound  pulp 
allow  three-quarters  pound  sugar.  Peel,  core  and  slice  the  apples,  put 
them  in  a  jar  with  the  blackberries,  which  must  be  picked  over,  and  let 
them  remain  in  the  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  till  the  fruit 
is  quite  soft;  pulp  through  a  sieve,  and  to  every  pound  of  pulp  allow 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  boil  the  pulp  for  another  hour;  put 
into  jars  very  hot,  and  when,  cold  cover  in  the  usual  way.  It  should  be 
firm  enough  to  slice  when  turned  out. 

Barberry  Jam. — Pick  three  pounds  of  barberries  from  the  stalk,  put 
them  in  a  jar  or  farina  boiler,  with  three  pounds  of  sugar.  Stand  the  jar 
in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  simmer  gently  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved  and  berries  soft,  then  stand  aside  all  night.  In  the  morning 
put  them  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and  simmer  slowly  for  25  minutes, 
stirring   continually.     Turn   into   glasses   and   seal   when   cool,   like   jelly. 

Barberry  Preserves. — This  is  a  very  old-fashioned  recipe.  Four  quarts 
of  barberries  picked  from  the  stems,  washed  and  drained.  Heat  one  large 
quart  of  molasses  and  one  quart  of  white  sugar  together  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Skim,  and  then  add  the  barberries.  Cook  until  they  begin 
to  pop  and  shrivel,  which  will  be  in  about  10  minutes.  Skim  them  into  a 
stone  jar,  then  boil  the  syrup  slowly  until  it  will  cover  the  berries. 

Bar  le  Due  Preserves. — Take  selected  red  (or  white)  currants  of  large 
size,  one  by  one,  carefully  make  an  incision  in  the  skin,  one-fourth  an 
inch  in  size,  with  tiny  embroidery  scissors.  Through  this  slit,  with  a 
sharp  needle,  remove  the  seeds,  separately,  preserving  the  shape  of  the 
fruit.  Take  the  weight  of  the  currants  in  strained  honey  and,  when  hot, 
add  the  currants.  Let  simmer  a  minute  or  two,  then  seal  as  jelly.  The 
currants  retain  their  shape,  are  of  a  beautiful  color  and  melt  in  the 
mouth.  Should  the  currants  liquefy  the  honey  too  much,  carefully  skim 
them  out,  reduce  the  syrup  at  a  gentle  simmer  to  desired  consistency  and 
store  as  before  after  adding  the  fruit. 

Black  Currants. — Gather  the  currants  on  a  dry  day;  to  every  pound 
allow  half  a  pint  red  currant  juice  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  finely 
pounded  loaf  sugar.  Clip  off  the  heads  and  stalks;  put  the  juice,  currants 
and  sugar  in  a  preserving  pan;  shake  it  frequently  till  it  boils;  carefully 
remove  the  fruit  from  the  sides  of  the  pan,  and  take  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises;  let  it  boil  for  10  or  15  minutes. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  127 

Blueberry  j\Iixtures. — A  combination  of  blueberries  and  gooseberries, 
one  portion  of  gooseberries  to  three  of  the  blueberries,  canned  in  the 
ordinary  fashion,  makes  an  excellent  Winter  sauce  or  filling  for  pies.  So 
does  a  combination  of  blueberries  and  rhubarb,  one  cupful  of  rhubarb 
and  one  cupful  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  blueberries. 

Cherry  Conserve. — Five  quarts  cherries  (sour),  one  pound  raisins 
(seeded  and  cut)  ;  two  oranges  (pulp  cut  in  pieces,  also  yellow  of  skin)  ; 
one  pound  English  walnuts  (chopped)  ;  2J'2  pounds  sugar.  Cook  until 
thick  and  put  in  jelly  tumblers.  Cherries  must  be  boiled  about  20  minutes 
before  putting  in  sugar,  etc. 

Cherry  Conserve  No.  2. — Three  pounds  sour  cherries;  two  pounds 
raisins;  four  pounds  granulated  sugar;  four  large  oranges.  Seed  and 
steam  the  raisins  for  half  an  hour.  Grate  some  of  the  orange  peel  in  the 
cherries.  Do  not  use  the  orange  skin.  Cut  the  pulp  into  small  pieces. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  together,  boil  for  20  minutes,  put  in  glasses. 

Cherry  Preserve,  Sun-cooked. — Pit  the  cherries,  which  must  be  perfect 
ripe  fruit,  weigh,  and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle,  allowing  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Do  not  add  any  water;  the 
juice  and  sugar  make  the  syrup.  Bring  to  a  boil,  and  boil  for  20  minutes, 
stirring  to  avoid  burning  and  skimming  to  keep  clear.  Skim  out  the 
fruit,  putting  on  shallow  platters,  pour  the  syrup  over,  and  cover  with 
clean  panes  of  glass.  Put  the  platters  out  in  the  sun,  and  keep  outdoors 
three  days,  bringing  in  at  night.  Then  put  in  jars,  like  any  other  pre- 
serve. The  sun  cooks  the  syrup  to  a  honey-like  consistence,  and  the  flavor 
is  delicious.  Strawberries  cooked  the  same  way  have  all  the  rich  frag- 
rance of  the  fresh  fruit. 

Citron  Preserves. — Pare  and  core  the  citron,  cut  into  strips  and  notch 
the  edges,  or  cut  into  fancy  shapes.  Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit,  and  to  six  pounds  of  the  fruit  allow  four  lemons  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  ginger  root.  Tie  the  ginger  root  in  a  cloth  and  boil  it  in  a 
quart  and  a  half  of  water  until  the  flavor  is  extracted;  then  remove  it  and 
add  to  the  water  the  sugar  and  the  juice  of  the  lemons.  Stir  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  syrup  is  clear,  remove  any  scum  that  may  form, 
then  add  the  citron  and  cook  until  it  is  clear,  but  not  soft  enough  to  fall 
apart;  can  and  seal  while  hot. 

Citron  Preserves  No.  2.— Cut  the  citron  in  strips  half  an  inch  wide, 
pare  off  the  rind  as  thin  as  possible  and  cut  up  the  fruit  in  small  squares., 
Put  in  a  vessel  and  cover  the  fruit  with  water  in  which  has  been  dis- 
solved an  ounce  of  alum  to  the  gallon  of  water.  Soak  24  hours,  or  until 
the  citron  is  clarified.  Take  out  of  alum  water  and  soak  in  clear  water 
until  the  alum  is  all  out,  which  will  probably  be  in  12  hours.  Weigh  and 
allow  to  each  pound  of  fruit  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  pre- 
serving kettle  with  only  a  little  sugar,  adding  sugar  several  times  until 


128  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

the  weighed  amount  has  been  used.  Season  with  any  flavoring  preferred. 
Cook  rapidly  until  done,  put  in  glass  cans  and  seal. 

Citron  Preserves  No.  3. — Pare  a  large  citron,  cut  into  thin  slices,  and 
then  into  strips  or  squares,  removing  all  seeds.  Weigh  equal  quantities  of 
fruit  and  sugar,  mix  together,  and  stand  over  night  in  a  large  bowl ;  the 
sugar  draws  out  juice,  forming  a  syrup.  In  the  morning  put  in  a  pre- 
serving kettle,  and  boil  slowly  for  two  to  three  hours,  skimming  carefully, 
until  the  syrup  is  like  honey.  About  15  minutes  before  taking  from  the 
stove  add,  for  each  quart  of  preserves,  one  lemon  cut  in  very  thin  slices, 
and  one  small  piece  of  green  ginger  root.  Some  housekeepers  add  a  few 
whole  cloves,  but  we  do  not  care  for  this.  Another  method  puts  the 
sliced  fruit  to  soak  in  brine  for  a  few  hours,  then  in  clear  water  to  freshen 
it,  this  process  hardening  the  fruit,  but  we  have  never  used  this  process, 
and  are  quite  satisfied  with  the  first   recipe  given. 

Dried  Citron. — To  prepare  citron  for  cakes  and  pies  cut  the  fruit  in 
four  parts,  pare  and  remove  the  seeds;  then  take  a  couple  of  quarts  of 
clear  water,  dissolve  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  hickorynut  in  the 
water,  put  in  the  preserving  kettle  as  much  citron  as  the  water  will  cover 
and  boil  until  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  straw;  then  boil  in  sugar; 
a  pint  bowl  of  sugar  to  the  same  measure  of  fruit.  Boil  one-half  hour. 
Spread  it  on  pie  plates  and  set  it  in  a  cool  oven  or  heater  and  let  it  dry 
perfectly. 

Preserved  Crab  Apples. — The  apples  should  be  very  ripe.  Wash  them 
well  in  cold  water;  put  them  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  and  just  cover 
with  boiling  water.  Let  them  cook  very  gently  until  you  can  remove  the 
skins  easily.  Drain  them,  peel  and  carefully  remove  the  cores,  but  do  not 
break  the  apples  or  remove  the  stems.  Weigh  them,  allowing  one  and 
one-quarter  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit;  allow  a  cupful  of  water 
to  this  quantity  of  sugar.  Put  water  and  sugar  over  the  fire  and  bring  to 
boiling  point.  Skim  until  clear,  then  put  in  the  apples  and  cook  very 
gently  until  they  are  tender  and  transparent.  Skim  while  cooking.  When 
they  are  done  put  them  into  small,  large-mouthed  jars,  and  when  cool 
seal  same  as  jelly. 

Currants,  Canning. — Wash  the  currants,  being  careful  not  to  break 
them;  remove  stems,  and  pack  currants  into  quart  cans,  shaking  them 
down  well.  To  each  can  add  one  cup  hot  sugar,  .place  the  jars  on  a 
wooden  frame  in  the  boiler,  place  the  covers  loosely  on  the  cans,  and  put 
enough  of  cold  water  in  the  boiler,  so  when  it  begins  to  boil  it  will  not 
boil  into  the  cans.  After  the  water  has  boiled  for  half  an  hour,  the  cans 
should  be  lifted  out,  the  covers  screwed  on  tight  and  put  in  a  cool,  dark 
place  until  wanted  for  the  table.  For  those  that  like  mixed  fruits,  a  layer 
of  strawberries  or  raspberries  and  then  a  layer  of  currants  may  be  packed 
in  the  cans. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  129 

Currant  Conserve. — Five  pcunds  currants;  four  pounds  sugar;  one 
pound  seeded  raisins;  four  oranges.  Grate  rind  and  squeeze  out  juice  of 
oranges.     Boil  all  together  half  hour.     Put  in  jelly  glasses. 

Currant  Sauce. — Five  pounds  of  currants,  heat  in  preserving  kettle,  put 
in  a  muslin  bag  and  squeeze  out  all  juice.  Add  five  pounds  granulated 
sugar,  one  pound  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  fine,  two  oranges,  chopped 
fine.  Boil  till  like  jelly.  The  sender  of  this  recipe  does  up  currants  with- 
out cooking.  Occasionally  she  says  a  can  spoils,  but  on  the  whole  she  has 
good  luck,  every  can  keeping  perfectly  some  years.  The  currants  are 
looked  over  carefully,  washed  and  then  mashed  thoroughly,  a  glass  bottle 
being  good  for  this  purpose.  She  then  adds  sugar,  pound  for  pound.  The 
fruit  is  sealed  in  cans,  using  new  rubbers  each  time.  Pineapples  are  also 
put  up  in  somewhat  the  same  way.  IMrs.  C.'s  way  is  to  chop  the  fruit 
fine,  add  sugar  pound  for  pound.  The  fruit  thus  prepared  is  left  in  a 
gallon  crock  for  two  days,  its  contents  being  stirred  frequently  with  a 
silver  spoon.  At  the  end  of  the  second  day  the  fruit  is  put  in  air- 
tight cans. 

Cranberry  and  Apple  Jam. — Take  two  pounds  of  cranberries  and  two 
pounds  of  apples  after  they  are  peeled,  cored  and  chopped.  Put  them  in 
a  preserving  pan  with  V/2  pounds  of  sugar.  When  it  comes  to  the  boil 
keep  the  preserve  boiling  for  half  an  hour,  then  try  a  little  on  a  cold 
saucer,  and  if  on  cooling  it  sets  well  it  will  be  sufficiently  done.  Tie  down 
in  small  jars.  This  makes  a  delicious  preserve,  the  cranberries  imparting 
a  fine  flavor  and  giving  in  addition  a  brilliant  color. 

Damson  Cheese. — Boil  the  fruit,  with  only  enough  water  to  prevent 
burning,  until  tender;  rub  through  a  hair  sieve  until  like  a  paste,  add  six 
ounces  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  stir  off  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  then  add  four  chopped  kernels  from  the  fruit  to  each  quart,  and 
put  back  to  boil.  It  is  wise  to  put  an  asbestos  mat  under  the  preserving 
kettle,  as  the  fruit  will  catch  and  burn  very  easily.  Boil,  stirring  con- 
tinually, until  the  preserve  will  leave  the  pan  quite  dry  and  adhere  in  a 
mass  to  the  spoon.  Press  into  jelly  glasses,  and  when  cold  cover  with 
paraffin  before  sealing.  When  served,  the  damson  cheese  is  turned  out 
of  the  glass,  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Elderberries. — These  may  be  combined  with  gooseberries,  crab  apples 
and  green  grapes,  equal  parts  of  either,  making  a  piquant  table  sauce, 
while  pies  made  from  them  might  please  the  individual  who  does  not 
care  for  the  flavor  of  the  single  fruit.  For  Winter  use  elderberries  may 
be  preserved  in  either  of  the  above  combinations  and  treated  as  other  fruit, 
or  canned  plain  without  sugar  for  use  in  pies  only.  When  making  pies 
from  the  plain  canned  fruit  it  is  wise  to  cook  the  berries  with  the  same 
proportion  of  sugar,  flour,  etc.,  as  given  for  fresh  berries,  filling  the  pie 
paste  when  cold.     This   insures   a  jelly-like  consistency  of  the   finished 


130  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

product  without  those  unpalatable  doughy  lumps  too  often  seen.  Again 
they  may  be  spiced  and  used  as  a  table  sauce  or  in  pies,  using  the  same 
proportion. 

Pickled  Elderberries  for  Pies. — Seven  pounds  elderberries,  stemmed, 
four  pounds  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  one 
tablespoon  cloves.  Boil  until  the  juice  is  rather  thick.  They  will  keep 
in  an  open  jar. 

Preserved  Elderberries. — Seven  pounds  of  elderberries,  three  pounds  of 
granulated  sugar,  three  lemons  sliced  thin;  put  the  elderberries  alone  in  a 
stone  jar  in  warm  salt  and  water  over  night.  Next  morning  drain  them 
in  a  colander,  make  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  lemons  and  one  pint  of  water, 
then  put  elderberries  in  the  syrup  and  cook.  When  they  begin  to  boil 
hard  time  them  20  minutes,  then  pour  in  a  jar  or  can  ready  for  use. 

Preserved  Elderberries  No.  2. — Shell  berries.  To  an  eight-quart  panful 
use  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  salt,  pour  on  hot  water  and  let  stand  half 
an  hour;  drain  well.  To  seven  pounds  of  berries  thus  prepared,  use  three 
pounds  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  vinegar;  boil  well.  If  one  wish  to  keep 
in  jars  without  sealing  they  should  be  boiled  down  thoroughly.  For  pies 
add  a  little  sugar  and  flour  enough  slightly  to  thicken  the  juice. 

Spiced  Elderberries. — Nine  pounds  cleaned  elderberries,  three  pounds 
brown  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar  and  one  ounce  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  allspice.  Put  sugar  and  vinegar  in  a  two-gallon  granite  kettle  over 
a  slow  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  berries  and  let  simmer  two  and  a 
half  hours.  Tie  spices  in  little  muslin  bags  and  add  when  nearly  done. 
Seal  in  air-tight  cans. 

Preserved  Figs. — Take  fresh,  ripe  figs,  cut  off  half  the  stem  of  each 
and  let  soak  all  night  in  very  weak  brine,  using  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt  to  each  quart  of  water.  In  the  morning  drain  and  cover  with  fresh 
water.  Make  a  thick'  syrup,  allowing  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  one-half  cupful  of  water  to  each  pound  of 
sugar.  Simmer  for  a  few  minutes  until  the  syrup  is  clear,  then  drain 
and  lay  in  it  the  freshened  figs  and  simmer  slowly  until  they  look  clear. 
Into  each  jar  drop  a  half-inch  piece  of  green  ginger  and  the  kernels  of 
half  a  dozen  peach  stones,  fill  with  fruit  and  syrup  and  seal.  They  should 
not  be  used  for  at  least  three  months. 

Garfield  Butter. — Use  two-thirds  plums  and  one-third  peaches.  Stone 
the  plums  and  pare  and  stone  the  peaches.  Mash  and  heat  slowly  to  boil- 
ing, boil  until  soft,  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Measure  the  pulp  thus 
obtained  and  to  one  measure  of  fruit  add  three-quarters  of  a  measure 
of  sugar.    Boil  until  thick,  stirring  continually,  then  put  into  jars  and  seal. 

Canned  Grapes. — After  picking  ripe  grapes  from  the  stem,  wash  them. 
Remove  the  skins,  keeping  them  and  the  pulps  separate.  Cook  the  pulps 
until  the  seeds  begin  to  separate.    Run  through  a  colander  or  coarse  sieve 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  131 

to  remove  the  seeds.  Add  the  skins  to  the  pulp,  cooking  till  tender.  Allow 
one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 

Gooseberries  with  Currant  Juice. — The  tops  and  tails  being  removed 
from  the  gooseberries,  allow  an  equal  quantity  of  finely-pounded  loaf  sugar 
and  put  a  layer  of  each  alternately  into  a  large,  deep  jar;  pour  into  it  as 
much  dripped  red  currant  juice  as  will  dissolve  the  sugar,  adding  its 
weight  in  sugar.  The  next  day  put  all  in  a  preserving  pan,  boil  it,  and 
put  up  as  other  jams. 

Grape  I\larmalade. — Choose  ripe  grapes  of  any  familiar  kind,  and  place 
them  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  prevent  their 
burning.  Cook  slowly  at  the  side  of  the  stove  until  they  are  well  broken 
and  mashed.  Then  press  through  a  sieve  and  measure  the  pulp.  For 
each  pint  allow  half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Place  the  grape  pulp  over  the 
fire,  boil  for  20  minutes,  add  the  sugar  and  boil  from  10  to  20  minutes 
longer,  or  until  a  drop  of  the  mixture  when  put  on  a  plate  will  retain  its 
shape  without  spreading.  Stir  constantly  while  cooking.  Skim  carefully 
from  time  to  time  and  when  done  pack  in  small  jars. 

Grape  and  Apple  Marmalade. — Many  people  do  not  care  for  the  flavor 
of  the  Clinton  grape,  but  it  is  excellent  to  use  with  sweet  apples  in  mar- 
malade, following  a  New  England  recipe,  in  which  the  wild  frost  grape  is 
ordinarily  used.  Heat  four  pounds  of  stemmed  and  pulped  grapes  until 
the  seeds  are  free  of  pulp.  Have  four  pounds  of  sweet  apples  pared,  cored, 
sliced  and  steamed  until  tender.  Sift  the  grape  pulp,  add  the  apples,  turn 
into  a  kettle  set  on  asbestos  mat  or  back  of  range  and  simmer  slowly  for 
two  hours;  measure,  add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  three-quarters  of  a. 
pound  to  a  pint  of  pulp,  and  cook  until  a  little,  chilled  on  ice,  shows  that 
it  is  stiff  enough  to  retain  its  shape.     Turn  into  jelly  glasses  and  seal. 

Grape  Preserves. — Press  the  pulp  out  of  each  grape;  boil  the  pulps 
until  tender,  then  press  through  colander  to  remove  the  seeds;  mix  the 
skins  with  the  pulp  and  juice;  add  as  many  cupfuls  of  sugar  as  there  are 
of  grapes  and  boil  together  until  thickened.  Green  grapes  are  preserved 
by  cutting  each  grape  in  halves,  taking  out  the  seeds,  then  adding  an  equal 
quantity  of  sugar  and  boiling  all  together  until  the  right  consistency;  seal 
while  hot. 

Spiced  Grapes. — Press  the  skins  from  the  grapes  and  put  the  pulp 
through  the  colander;  add  the  skins  and  weigh.  To  every  pound  of 
grapes  add  one  cupful  of  vinegar,  two  ounces  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one 
ounce  of  powdered  cloves  and  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar;  boil  an 
hour  and  a  half  until  thick,  then  bottle.  Small  Damson  plums  are  very- 
nice  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Marmalades. — One  simple  process  will  serve  for  all  kinds  of  marma- 
lade, and  that  is  to  cook  the  fruit  in  its  own  juice  to  a  state  of  collapse. 
Then  press  through  a  colander,  measure,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  skim,  before 


122  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

adding  the  sugar — measure  for  measure.  Cook  with  care  after  the  sugar 
scum  begins  to  thicken.  When  the  juice  rolls  up  a  jelly  on  a  cold  silver 
spoon,  the  marmalade  is  ready  for  pint  can,  or  for  glasses,  covered  when 
cold  with  one-fourth  inch,  at  the  least,  of  hot  paraffin.  All  the  small  fruits 
make  delicious  marmalades  when  pressed  through  a  fine  colander  or  sieve 
to  remove  the  seeds.  Grapes  and  blackberries  do  not  require  full  measure 
for  measure  of  sugar.  Plums  are  easily  converted  into  a  palatable  mar- 
malade after  removing  the  pits,  but  they  are  more  easily  made  into  pre- 
serves, the  same  as  peaches,  and  quinces ;  both  are  too  good  for  marma- 
lades. By  the  following  method  clingstone  peaches  can  be  utilized,  'also 
imperfect  pears  and  quinces.  Pare  the  peaches  and  cut  into  pieces  as 
small  as^a  cherry,  pack  into  a  measuring  dish  and  note  the  amount.  Add 
water  to  prevent  burning  and  cook  thoroughly  before  adding  the  sugar — 
measure  for  measure.  Boil  with  care  the  same  as  for  marmalade,  and 
place  in  airtight  cans. 

Pineapple  Marmalade. — Use  thoroughly  ripe  pineapples,  peel  them,  and 
after  removing  the  hard  core,  chop  them.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  and 
juice,  add  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  simmer  one  hour.  Frequent  skimming 
and  stirring  will  be  necessary.  Cool  some  of  it,  and  if  not  thick  enough, 
continue  the  boiling  half  an  hour  longer.  An  asbestos  cover  slipped  under 
the  kettle  is  a  safeguard  against  scorching.  Crab-apple  and  plum  marma- 
lade is  excellent.  Use  the  Siberian  crab-apples  and  Bradshaw  or  other 
violet  red  plums.  Allow  two  parts  apples  to  one  part  plums.  Wash  the 
fruit  and  cut  out  the  imperfections.  Simmer  both  kinds  until  soft,  then 
rub  through  a  sieve.  Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  fruit  puip. 
Put  the  sugar  in  the  oven  to  heat,  and  cook  the  fruit  20  minutes  in  a 
porcelain-lined  or  agate  kettle.  Add  the  hot  sugar,  skim,  and  cook  30 
minutes  longer.     Stir  very  often. 

Peach  Marmalade. — Use  firm  late  peaches.  Peel  the  peaches  and  cut 
them  in  halves.  Crack  two-thirds  of  the  kernels,  blanch  them,  and  cut 
into  lengthwise  strips.  Put  the  peaches  over  the  fire  with  three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Stir  frequently  and  cook 
from  20  minutes  to  half  an  hour.  Five  minutes  before  removing  from 
the  fire  add  the  blanched  kernels. 

Quince  Marmalade. — Rub  the  fruit  with  a  cloth,  cut  out  the  flower  end, 
and  chop  without  removing  the  skins  and  cores.  Cook  until  soft  enough 
to  rub  through  a  sieve.  Strain  the  fruit  and  add  three-quarters  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Cook  slowly  until  done,  which  should  be  in 
15  or  20  minutes.  Apple  marmalade  affords  a  change  from  cider  apple 
sauce  and  stewed  apples.  Take  seven  pounds  of  apples  (Fall  Pippins  are 
nice)  and  stew  them  whh  a  pint  of  water.  Put  them  through  a  sieve, 
add  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  pulp,  also  the  juice 
and  grated  yellow  rind  of  three  lemons.     Boil  half  hour,  then  add  a  little 


THE    RURAL    COOK     BOOK.  133 

ginger  root.    This  may  be  made  of  one-third  quince  and  two-thirds  apples, 
leaving  out  the  ginger  and  lemons. 

]Mixed  }klarmalade. — Take  equal  quantities  of  peaches,  apples,  pears 
and  quinces  that  have  been  pared,  cored  and  cut  in  eighths.  Cook  quinces 
in  water  to  cover  until  almost  tender.  Drain  and  measure  the  water. 
For  six  pounds  of  mixed  fruit  there  should  be  one  pint  of  water.  Add 
quinces  to  the  other  fruit,  place  in  preserve  kettle  with  water,  and  let 
them  cook  thoroughly,  but  not  burn.  Take  out  and  mash  well  together. 
Measure.  Clean  the  kettle  and  put  them  back  with  half  their  weight  in 
granulated  sugar.  Let  ihem  cook  very  slowly  two  hours.  Keep  them 
stirred  well  from  the  bottom  and  protect  with  an  asbestos  mat  or  set  the 
kettle  in  anolher  containing  boiling  water,  as  on  no  account  must  the  jam 
burn.     Seal  in  small  jars. 

Orange  and  Apple  Marmalade. — Cut  the  apples  in  small  pieres  with- 
out peeling  them  and  add  a  pint  of  water  for  every  quart  of  appK^s.  Boil 
them  down  for  half  an  hour  and  strain  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  juice 
and  pulp  of  three  oranges  and  a  little  of  the  yellow  peel  cut  fine  to  every 
pmt  of  apple  pulp.  To  each  pint  of  the  mixture,  add  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Boil  the  marmalade  until  it  curls  before  the  finger  when 
ii   is  cooled  for  trial. 

Preserved  Melon  Rind. — Pare  the  melon  very  thin;  do  not  pare  away 
all  the  ripened  melon.  Leave  about  one-quarter  inch  attached  to  the  rind. 
Cut  in  pieces  and  place  in  a  crock  over  night  with  salt  sprinkled  between 
the  layers.  In  the  morning  drain,  pour  boiling  water  over,  leave  for 
one-half  hour,  drain  agam.  New  weigh  the  fruit — to  10  pounds  fruit  add 
five  pounds  granulated  sugar,  one-half  gallon  white  vinegar,  one  ounce 
stick  cinnamon,  one  ounce  white  ginger  root,  and  one-half  ounce  whole 
cloves.  Tie  the  spice  in  small  muslin  bags,  place  all  in  a  large  pan  and 
boil  slowly.     The  longer  it  boils  the  nicer  will  it  be. 

Milk,  Canning. — A  correspondent  tells  us  she  has  canned  milk  in  this 
way  and  kept  it  a  year:  Allow  the  milk  to  become  perfectly  cold,  then 
fill  sterilized  fruit  jars  to  within  a  half  inch  of  the  top;  put  on  the 
covers  loosely  and  set  into  a  clean  boiier  en  a  board  with  "holes  through ; 
fill  boiler  with  cold  water  to  within  an  inch  of  the  tops  of  the  jars  ;  bring 
the  water  to  the  boiling  point  and  allow  it  to  boil  20  minutes  after  ebulli- 
tion begins,  then  remove  the  cans  one  by  one,  put  on  new  rubbers,  fill 
with  boiling  milk,  screw  the  covers  on  and  invert  the  cans  till  cold.  Pit 
away  in  a  cool,  dark  place  a.nd  use  when  the  cows  have  dried  up.  Of 
course  this  will  taste  like  scalded  milk,  but  for  all  purposes  except  drink- 
ing it  is  all  right.  As  the  cream  does  not  dry,  it  can  readily  be  mixed 
with  the  milk  if  desired.  If  directions  are  followed  carefully  and  every- 
thing  used    made   perfectly   clean   little    or   none    will    spoil.      It   is   quite 


134  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

essential  to  use  new  rubber  rings,  as  old  ones  become  hard  and  will  not 
make  the  jars  tight. 

Or-ra-cur. — Five  pounds  of  currants,  five  pounds  of  sugar,  juice  and 
grated  rinds  of  three  oranges,  one  pound  of  raisins,  chopped  and  stoned ; 
boil  all  together  for  20  minutes,  and  put  away  in  jelly  glasses. 

Peach  Butter. — This  is  a  nice  way  to  use  up  peaches  that  arc  too  ripe 
for  canning  or  pickling.  Pare  ripe  peaches,  put  in  a  kettle  with  sufficient 
water  to  cover  peaches ;  when  soft  run  through  a  colander,  the  stones 
being  thus  easily  removed.  To  each  quart  of  peaches  thus  prepared  -add 
1/4  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  slowly  till  thick;  add  ground  cinna- 
mon to  taste.  This,  like  all  butters  and  marmalades,  requires  constant 
watching  to  keep  the  fruit  from  burning.  • 

Spiced  Peaches. — Weigh  eight  pounds  of  freestone  peaches  after  they 
have  been  peeled,  halved  and  the  stones  taken  out.  Put  peaches  in  a  por- 
celain lined  kettle  with  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  five  pounds  of  sugar 
(granulated).  Mix  one  ounce  each  of  cinnamon  sticks,  whole  mace 
and  green  ginger  and  one-half  ounce  of  whole  cloves.  Divide  into  eight 
parts,  tie  each  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  and  drop  in  the  kettle  with  the 
peaches.  Simmer  until  the  fruit  is  tender,  then  lift  it  with  a  skimmer 
and  put  it  in  sterilized  jars.  Boil  the  syrup  a  minute,  skim,  lift  out  the 
bags,  then  pour  over  the  fruit  in  the  jars.  It  is  an  improvement  to  break 
IS  peach  stones,  blanch  the  kernels  in  boiling  water  and  add  them  to 
the  syrup  just  before  pouring  it  into  the  jars. 

Peach  Jam. — Pare,  stone  and  cut  into  thin  slices  half  a  peck  of  free- 
stone peaches.  Weigh.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  in  layers  in  a  preserve  kettle  and  let 
them  cook  gently  until  clear,  which  will  probably  take  an  hour.  Have 
ready  cracked  one-third  the  peach  stones,  remove  and  blanch  the  kernels, 
then  slice  them  thin  and  sprinkle  them  among  the  layers  of  peaches  so  ail 
can  cook  together.  Put  into  small  glass  jars  or  tumblers  when  cold. 
Shut  up  air-tight. 

Peach  Leather. — Pare  fully  ripe  peaches  (yellow  ones  preferred)  ; 
remove  the  pits- and  weigh.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  one-fourth  pound 
of  granulated  sugar.  Put  in  stew  kettle  and  cook  slowly,  mashing  the 
fruit  as  it  boils.  When  cooked  to  a  thick  paste  spread  on  a  buttered 
board  and  put  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Put  out  the  second  day  and  when  dry 
enough  that  it  will  not  stick,  loll  up  like  a  roll  of  leather  and  keep  in  a 
cool,  dry  place.     Slice  from  the  end  of  the  roll. 

Pears   in  Cider.— One  of  our   friends   reports  that   Kieffer  pears   are 
delicious  canned  in  sweet  cider.    The  customary  syrup  is  made  by  melt 
ing  sugar  in  the  cider,  and  the  pears  are  cooked  in  this  (not  over-cooked) 
either  in  the  jars  or  in  a  kettle.     The  cider  is  said  to  give  much  richness 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  135 

of  flavor.     Pears  were  also  canned  in  perry   (pear  cider),  but  the  result 
was  not  considered  so  desirable  as  where  the  apple  juice  was  used. 

Pear  Chips. — Four  pounds  of  Duchess  or  other  hard  pears  sliced  thin, 
four  pounds  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  grated  rind  of  one, 
one  ounce  of  dry  or  green  ginger  root  chopped  fine  and  one-half  tumbler 
of  water.     Cook  until  clear,  then  seal  in  jelly  glasses. 

Pear  Syrup. — Very  nice  syrup  may  be  made  from  pears,  core  and 
pare  them;  cover  with  cold  water  and  set  on  back  of  stove,  let  simmer 
until  soft,  then  dip  off  juice  carefully  or  strain  through  a  colander.  If 
the  juice  is  not  clear  strain  through  a  fine  strainer.  Return  to  the  fire 
and  boil  down  rapidly  to  about  one-quarter,  then  add  sugar,  about  as  for 
jelly,  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  a  cupful  of  juice.  Boil  until  the  syrup  is  thick 
as  you  wish  and  put  in  glass  jars.  This,  when  properly  made,  is  thought 
to  be  as  nice  as  maple  syrup.  The  flavor  may  be  varied  a  little  by  using 
a  verj--  little  lemon  juice  or  green  ginger.  If  desirable,  the  cooked  pears 
may  be  used  by  boiling  them  a  short  time  with  a  little  sugar,  or  with 
sugar  and  vinegar. 

Persimmon  Figs. — Gather  them,  and  press  each  fruit  between  thumb 
and  finger,  and  put  in  layers  in  an  open-mouthed  jar  with  a  thin  layer  of 
sugar  between  the  layers  of  fruit  and  sugar  on  the  top.  After  a  few 
weeks,  say  three  or  four,  lay  on  a  platter  or  plate  in  single  layers  and 
dry  in  a  very  cool  oven  or  in  the  sun. 

Canned  Plums  Without  Cooking. — This  recipe  comes  from  the  plum 
belt  of  central  New  York,  and  will  be  found  very  satisfactory:  Take 
enough  large  yellow  egg  plums  to  fill  a  quart  can.  Put  them  into  a 
granite  or  earthen  pan  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let  stand  three 
minutes,  then  drain.  Pour  over  more  boiling  water,  which  will  crack 
the  skins.  Remove  the  skins,  and  place  the  plums  carefully  in  a  hot 
sterilized  glass  jar.  Have  ready  a  thick  syrup  made  by  boiling  two 
cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  that  has  been  moistened  with  water,  and 
cooked  to  the  "brittle  stage."  Pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  the  plums  and 
seal.  The  syrup  will  form  like  "icicles,"  but  after  a  day  or  two  will 
dissolve.  Make  enough  syrup  for  two  or  three  cans  at  once,  as  it  is 
hard  to  tell  just  how  much  it  will  take  to  fill  a  can.  They  always  keep 
perfectly,  and  retain  their  flavor  much  better  than  when  cooked,  but  the 
secret  is  in  having  everything  boiling  hot. 

Plum  Cheese. — For  economy  make  this  on  the  same  day  you  make 
plum  jelly.  After  extracting  the  jelly  juice  .pass  the  remaining  pulp 
through  a  colander  to  remove  skins  and  pits,  then  weigh.  Add  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  every  two  pounds  of  plums  and  boil  one-half  an  hour;  seal  up. 

Plums  in  Cold  Water. — A  housekeeper  who  has  had  experience  with 
the  cold-water'  process  of  keeping  fruit  says  she  has  kept  wild  plums 
all  Winter  in  this  way,  putting  them  in  a  large  stone  jar  and  covering 


136  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

them  with  enough  cold  water  to  leave  about  four  inches  over  them.  A 
saucer  or  plate  with  a  weight  on  it  must  be  placed  on  top  of  the  fruit 
to  keep  the  top  layers  deep  enough  under  the  water.  To  make  sauce 
from  wild  plums  kept  in  this  way,  take  cut  as  many  of  the  fruit  as  ar^ 
required,  and  parboil  until  the  skins  crack  in  water  containing  a  pinch 
of  baking  soda.  Then  rinse  well  in  clear  cold  water,  drop  into  boiling 
syrup,  and  cook  until  done.  This  makes  a  delicious  sauce;  the  parboiling 
with  the  soda  takes  the  "pucker"  out  of  the  fruit.  Cranberries  will  keep 
for  months  if  covered  with  cold  water  as  described,  and  m.any  house- 
keepers put  up  green  currants  and  gooseberries,  also  rhubarb,  in  the  same 
way. 

Plum  Conserve. — Five  pounds  plums,  peeled  and  pitted ;  five  pounds 
sugar;  cook  plums  20  minutes  before  adding  sugar.  Put  in  sugar  and 
boil  a  little,  then  add  two  pounds  seeded  raisins  (cut  into  small  pieces), 
grated  rind  of  four  oranges  and  the  pulp  chipped  (easier  to  cut  with 
scissors).  Cook  to  a  thick  conserve  (15  to  20  minutes),  and  put  in  jelly 
glasses.  Cherries  (sour)  are  good  used  instead  of  plums;  pit  them. 
Currants  may  also  be  used  instead  of  plums. 

Pineapple  and  Plum  Jam. — Twelve  pounds  of  large  plums,  five  krge 
pineapples,  one  quart  of  warcr  and  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  to  every  pound  of  fruit,  and  one  pound  to  every  pint 
of  water.  Peel  and  pit  the  plums,  add  the  water,  bring  to  the  boiling 
point,  add  the  pineapple  cut  in  dice  and  boil  until  soft  and  thick,  then 
add  the  sugar  and  cook  three-quarters  of  an  hour  longer. 

Spiced  Plums. — Spiced  plums  arc  the  best  of  relishes  with  game,  poul 
try,  and  mutton.  Wash,  drain,  pick  snd  weigh  the  plums,  prick  the  skins 
light!}',  then  pack  them  down  in  earthen  jars  with  one-half  their  own 
weigh  of  sugar.  Strew  through  the  fruit  while  packing  plenty  of  whole 
cloves,  whole  allspice,  mace,  ginger  slightly  bruised  and  stick  cinnamon. 
Put  in  also  a  few  whole  black  peppercorns,  and  to  each  jar  allot  a  single 
pod  of  the  small  red  pepper.  Take  half  a  pint  of  cider  vinegar  for  each 
pound  of  fruit,  add  to  it  as  much  sugar  as  the  fruit  was  packed  in,  bring 
to  a  boil,  skim  well  and  pour  over  it  scalding  hot.  Let  stand  24  hours, 
t'len  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  up,  skim  and  return  to  the  fruit.  Do  this 
three  times,  then  put  fruit  and  syrup  together  in  the  kettle,  let  them  boil 
five  minutes,  skimming  well,  fill  jars  and  cover. 

Canned  Pumpkin. — This  will  supply  pie  material  when  stored  pump- 
kins are  gone.  Cook  the.  pumpkin  and  strain  it,  just  as  you  do  for  pies, 
being  careful  not  to  liave  much  water  in  it.  Fill  the  can  full.  Shake 
down  so  as  to  have  them  :>olid.  Put  on  the  tops,  screw  down  just  a 
little,  so  you  can  lift  by  them,  place  in  boiler,  with  something  between 
the  cans  and  boiler  on  the  bottom,  fill  to  the  neck  of  cans  with  water 
and  boil  one  good  hour.    Take  out  and  wipe  the  necks  of  the  cans,  and 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  137 

it  the  pumpkin  has  shrunk  away,  hll  cans  up  with  boiling  water,  put  on 
rhigs  and  screw  down  the  tops  tight,  and  the  pumpkin  will  keep  six 
months  in  a  good,  cool  place. 

Quince  Butter. — Use  half  a  gallon  of  quinces  pared  and  cored,  half 
a  gallon  of  tart  apples  pared  and  cored,  two  quarts  of  sweet  cider,  one 
pint  of  cold  water.  Cover  the  crock  and  stew  gently  until  the  fruit  is 
very  soft;  then  pass  tlirough  a  sieve.  Add  five  cupfuls  of  sugar  and 
cook  until  soft. 

Canned  Quinces. — Prepare  the  quinces  by  paring,  coring  and  quarter- 
ing. Use  a  silver  knife.  Keep  the  prepared  quinces  in  cold  water  to 
prevent  them  from  discoloring  until  sufficient  have  been  prepared.  Cook 
the  quinces  in  boi'ing  water  slowdy  till  tender.  Have  ready  a  syrup  of 
one-half  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Put 
tlie  cocked  quinces  in  the  syrup,  allowing  them  to  remain  five  minutes. 
Then  can  and  seal  while  hot. 

Quince  Honey. — One  medium  quince  and  one  cupful  of  granulated 
sugar  will  make  one  jelly  glass  of  honey.  Pare  and  grate  the  quinces, 
then  stir  this  grated  pulp  into  a  boiling  syrup  made  of  the  sugar  and 
enough  water  to  dissolve  it.  Stir  slowly  and  quite  often  until  the  pulp 
will  remain  suspended  through  the  syrup.  One  should  not  get  it  too 
stiff.  Put  into  jell}^  glasses,  and  when  cool  cover  in  the  same  way  you 
do  preserves  and  jellies,  and  keep  in  the  preserve  closet. 

Quince  Jam. — Take  one  pint  of  quince  juice  left  from  preserves,  add 
one  pound  of  sliced  apples,  three-q-uarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  boil  two 
hours,  stirring  w^ell ;  pour  into  glasses  while  hot  and  seal. 

Quince  and  Pear  Sauce. — Three  pounds  light  brown  sugar,  six  pounds 
pears,  quartered  if  large,  small  ones  cut  in  halves;  nine  pounds  quinces, 
quartered.  Boil  sugar,  pears  i'ud  quinces  nearly  all  day,  taking  care  not 
to  let  them  cook  too  rapidly,  until  both  pears  and  quinces  are  of  a  rich 
red,  and  the  juice  an  amber  syrup.  Can  and  seal  tight.  The  fruit  keeps 
its  shape,  the  pears  having  gained  a  fine  flavor  from  the  quinces,  and  the 
quinces  having  an   added  goodness   from  the  pears. 

Raisine  Bourgogne. — Stem  c-.nd  seed  tw^o  pounds  of  ripe  grapes.  Boi! 
with  one  cup  of  water  until  soft.  Press  through  a  sieve  and  add  two 
pounds  of  ripe  pears,  peeled  and  sliced;  cook  until  reduced  to  half  the 
amount.  Weigh  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  strain  again,  put  in  small  earthen  jars,  set  in  a  plate-warm- 
ing oven  for  a  day  or  until  firm  to  the  touch.  Tie  down  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Bar-le-Duc. — To  four  pounds  of  raspberries 
add  one  pound  of  currants;  bruise  the  currants  and  strain  the  juice;  add 
to  it  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  juice,  including 
♦he  weight  of  the  berries  left  whole.     Boil  20  minutes  and  skim,  add  the 


138  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

raspberries,  cook  20  minutes  more.    When  the  syrup  jellies  on  a  plate, 
take  off  and  place  in  glasses  or  small  jars  while  hot. 

Canned  Raspberries. —  (Mrs.  Mapes's  recipe). — First  make  a  syrup  by 
boiling  seven  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  ^Yi  quarts  water.  Fill  cans  with 
fresh  berries,  putting  in  as  many  as  possible  without  crushing  the  berries. 
Apply  covers  without  the  rubbers,  and  set  in  a  kettle  or  boiler  of  cold 
water,  so  the  water  comes  about  two-thirds  of  the  height  of  the  cans. 
Bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  seven  to  10  minutes  after  boiling  begins.  Now 
take  the  cans  out  of  the  water,  remove  the  covers,  fill  with  hot  syrup 
brimming  full,  and  seal  up  tight  in  the  usual  way. 

Uncooked  Canned  Rhubarb. — Wash,  peel,  cut  into  inch '  cubes  and 
fill  compactly  into  glass  jar,  then  pour  slowly  into  the  jar  good  fresh 
water  to  overflowing.  Adjust  rubber,  screw  on  the  top  and  set  away  in 
a  cool  place  until  morning.  I'hen  if  there  be  any  air  bubbles,  tap  the 
side  of  the  jar,  fill  again  to  the  brim  with  water  and  screw  on  cover 
tightly.     If  tops  and  rubbers  are  perfect  the  rhubarb  will  keep  until  used. 

Canned  Rhubarb. — Wash  it,  cut  into  inch  pieces,  put  in  a  preserving 
kettle,  and  let  it  come  to  a  good  boil  all  through,  without  a  particle 
of  sugar.  It  will  keep  perfectly.  When  you  wish  to  open  it  for  use, 
take  one  cupful  of  sugar  for  a  pie,  and  it  will  be  like  the  fresh  pie  plant. 
For  a  small  family,  the  pint  cans  are  much  better  for  any  fruit. 

Rhubarb  Jam  with  Ginger. — String  some  rhubarb,  cut  into  short 
lengths,  and  weigh.  Put  into  a  kettle  and  add  just  enough  water  to  pre- 
vent burning.  When  it  has  become  quite  soft,  add  sugar,  one  pound  for 
each  pound  of  rhubarb.  Stir  well  until  the  jam  becomes  rich  and  syrup.v. 
For  each  pound  take  about  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  rub  it  smooth 
with  a  little  water,  and  add  it  to  your  jam.  Boil  up  jam  again,  stirring 
well;  put  into  glasses,  and  when  cold  cover.  If  a  large  amount  of  rhu- 
barb is  at  command,  a  high  grade  of  brown  sugar  is  very  good;  the  only 
difference  seems  to  be  that  the  jam  is  not  quite  so  clear. 

Rhubarb  Jelly. — Make  when  the  rhubarb  is  tender,  using  the  pink 
variety  without  peeling  it,  as  much  of  the  flavor  and  all  of  the  color  is 
in  the  skin.  Cook  eight  pounds  of  rhubarb  with  the  yellow  part  of  the 
peel  from  three  lemons,  in  a  covered  dish,  until  all  the  juice  of  the  rhu- 
barb is  free.  Strain,  and  add  all  the  juice  that  ca'n  be  extracted  from 
the  three  lemons.  Boil  half  an  hour  and  strain  through  a  bag.  To 
each  cupful  of  this  juice  add  a  cup  and  a  quarter  of  granulated  sugar, 
which  should  be  heated  before  putting  into  'the  juice.  Stir  until  the 
sugar  is  entirely  dissolved,  then  boil  without  stirring  until  it  jellies  when 
tested.  A  fine  jelly  which  may  be  made  later  in  the  season  has  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  tart  apple's  (peeled  and  cored)  cut  and  cooked 
with   each  pound   of   rhubarb.     Cook  until   soft   and   drain   through  bag 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  139 

without    pressing.     Allow    a    cup    of    vinegar    to    each    cup    of    juice   and 
proceed  as  in  former  recipe.^ 

Rhubarb  and  Orange  Jam.— To  a  quart  of  cut  up  rhubarb,  add  half 
a  dozen  oranges,  peeled,  cut  up  and  with  the  pits  removed,  and  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  sugar.  Boil  gently  until  a  little  set  on  a  plate  will  jelly. 
This  can  be  varied  by  slicing  the  peel  of  three  oranges  in  thin  strips  and 
adding  it  to  the  fruit.  This  jam  will  also  keep  indefinitely  in  earthen 
jars,  or  jelly  glasses  which  have  been  sealed  with  paraffin. 

Rhubarb  and  Pineapple. — The  following  rule  for  canning  is  a  decided 
improvement  upon  pineapple  alone,  and  the  rhubarb  taste  disappears. 
Chop  and  cook  equal  parts  of  pineapple  and  rhubarb,  and  add  a  cupful 
of  sugar  for  each  pint  jar. 

Rhubarb  Marmalade. — Peel  the  rhubarb,  and  cut  into  pieces  one-half 
inch  long.  Put  into  a  large  earthen  bowl,  and  cover  with  sugar  in  the 
proportion  of  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  rhubarb.  Allow  this  to 
stand  over  night,  or  15  to  IS  hours.  Be  sure  that  the  bowl  is  amply 
large,  as  there  will  be  a  flood  of  juice  by  morning.  Strain  off  the  juice 
and  sugar  into  a  preserving  kettle;  when  it  begins  to  boil,  add  the  rhu- 
barb. Boil  slowly  for  an  hour,  or  until  the  preserve  assumes  a  deep 
red  color,  stirring  carefully  to  prevent  burning,  and  removing  any  scum 
that  rises  to  the  top.  About  15  or  20  minutes  before  removing  from  the 
fire,  peel  the  yellow  rind  from  one  lemon,  chop  it  fine,  and  add  to  the 
preserve,  together  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  this  being  our  usual 
proportion  to  about  four  or  five  quarts  of  preserve,  but  the  quantity  of 
lemon  may  be  varied  to  suit  the  taste.  This  gives  a  piquant  flavor  other- 
wise lacking,  in  spite  of  the  acidity  of  the  rhubarb.  When  bottled,  keep 
in  a  cool,  dark  place.  This  rhubarb  jam  is  very  nice  in  open  tarts,  or  as 
a  filling  for  boiled  roly  puddings. 

Rhubarb  and  Almond  Marmalade. — Cut  rhubarb  up  very  fine,  and  to 
each  cupful  add  the  pulp  and  juice  of  one  orange,  one  teaspoonful  of  the 
grated  yellow  of  the  rind,  one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and  one  and  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar.  Let  stand  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  boil  rapidly 
until  transparent,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  blanched  almonds  cut  in 
ihin  slices,  boil  up  once  and  put  in  glasses. 

Hackensack  Rhubarb  Marmalade.— Cut  a.  pound  and  a  half  of  rhubarb 
into  inch  lengths  and  put  it  in  an  earthen  dish.  Scatter  over  this  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  figs  and  an  ounce  of  candied  peel  (both  cut  fine)  ; 
over  all  sprinkle  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  boil  for  about  15  minutes,  then  add  a  pound 
of  either  orange  or  lemon  pulp,  cut  fine,  and  cook  until  heavy  enough  to 
be  firm  when  cold.  Put  in  jelly  glasses,  and  when  cool  cover  with  paraf- 
fin, or  any  other  material  used  for  keeping  air   from  jellies. 

Rhubarb  and  Fig  Marmalade.— Three  pounds  of  rhubarb,  three  pounds 


140  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

of  sugar,  one  pound  of  figs,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  grated  rind  of  half. 
Wash  the  figs  and  cut  fine  and  put  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle;  cut  rhu- 
barb into  inch  cubes  and  spread  evenly  over  the  figs;  over  the  rhubarb 
distribute  one  pound  of  the  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing cook  slowly  until  it  looks  clear,  then  add  remainder  of  sugar  and  cook 
until  thick.  About  fifteen  minutes  before  taking  from  the  stove  add 
juice  and  rind  of  lemon.  This  quantity  will  make  two  quarts  of  mar- 
malade. It  can  be  sealed  while  hot,  or  put  in  jelly  glasses  and  covered 
with  parafifin. 

Rhubarb  and  Orange  Marmalade. — Three  pounds  of  rhubarb,  four 
and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar,  three  oranges,  the  grated  rind  of  one 
orange.  After  grating  the  yellow  from  one  orange,  remove  the  peel 
from  all  three  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cut  the  rhubarb  in  inch  cubes, 
mix  with  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  and  the  oranges  and  let 
stand  twenty-four  hours.  Cock  until  it  looks  clear,  then  heat  the  re- 
maining three  pounds  of  sugar,  add,  and  cook  until  thick. 

Rhubarb  and  Raisin  Marmalade. — Four  pounds  rhubarb,  four  oranges, 
juice  of  ail,  peel  of  two;  four  pounds  sugar,  one  lemon,  two  pounds  of 
raisins.  Peel  and  cut  the  rhubarb  into  half-inch  pieces.,  Prepare  the 
oranges  by  squeezing  out  juice  and  cooking  the  peel  in  water  till  tender. 
Drain  and  scrape  out  white  skin.  Extract. the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Put 
the  rhubarb  into  a  granite  preserving  kettle,  heat  it  slowly  to  boiling, 
cook  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar,  orange  juice  and  peel,  lemon 
juice  and  raisins,  and  cook  slowly  until  thick. 

Spiced  Rhubarb. — Peel  and  slice  2^  pounds  of  rhubarb;  sprinkle  a 
potmd  of  sugar  over  it  and  let  stand  until  morning.  Drain  off  the  syrup 
and  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  each  of  vinegar  and  water. 
Drop  into  this  syrup  small  bags  filled  with  a  mixture  composed  of  one 
third  of  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  mace,  allspice  and  ginger,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Boil  until  the  syrup  begins  to  thicken,  then 
take  out  the  bags  and  add  the  rhubarb  and  cook  until  clear. 

Canned  Strawberries. — To  can  strawberries  so  that  they  will  keep 
their  shape  and  color,  after  the  berries  are  picked  over,  put  them  in  .t 
jar,  with  a  layer  of  sugar  and  then  of  berries  until  all  are  used.  Set 
them  in  the  cellar  over  night,  and  the  sugar  will  penetrate  them,  and  no 
water  must  be  added:  there  will  be  sufficient  juice.  Have  a  sugar  syrup 
on  the  stove  hot,  put  the  strawberries  in  and  let  them  boil  up  gently; 
llien  fill  cans  with  the  fruit  and  juice  all  cooked  together.  Screw  on 
the  cover,  stand  the  can  upside  down  a  few  minutes,  then  turn  again, 
changing  it  in  this  way  until  it  is  cool,  and  the  berries  will  not  rise  to 
the  top.     This  way  preserves  the  shape,  color,  and  flavor  of  the  fruit. 

Canned  Strawberries,  No.  2. — An  excellent  way  to  can  strawberries, 
raspberries  or  any  fruit  that  requires  little  or  no  cooking  is  the  follow- 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  141 

ing :  Prepare  fruit  carefully,  discarding  all  blemished  or  imperfect  berries. 
Prepare  a  syrup  of  one  quart  of  water  boiled,  one  cupful  of  sugar.  More 
or  less  sugar  may  be  added  according  to  the  taste  of  family  and  the 
acidity  of  the  fruit  to  be  canned.  Have  jars  thoroughly  sterilized  as 
above,  fill  with  the  prepared  fruit,  pour  over  the  syrup  until  it  is  filled  to 
the  brim.  Screw  on  cap  after  adjusting  rubber.  Place  jars  in  a  stone 
crock  with  thin  strips  of  board  or  a  cloth  under  them  and  pour  around 
them  enough  boiling  water  to  fill  crock  up  to  the  rubbers  on  jars.  Cover 
with  blankets,  carpets,  etc.,  to  exclude  air,  and  leave  over  night  or  until 
the  water  is  cold.  Canned  in  this  way  soft  fruits  keep  both  shape  and 
color,  and  very  nearly  resemble  fresh  fruit.  Fruits  that  lose  color,  such 
a?,  strawberries  or  red  raspberries,  should  have  paper  bags  or  pasteboard 
boxes    slipped    over   them   to    exclude   the    light. 

Canned  Strawberries,  No.  3. — Fill  a  quart  jar  with  large,  ripe  berries, 
from  which  the  hulls  have  been  taken;  fill  the  jar  with  cold  water;  then 
pour  It  out  again  into  a  measure.  For  every  twelve  jars  to  be  put  up 
use  thirteen  of  these  measures  of  water  and  in  it  dissolve  six  pounds  of 
sugar.  Pack  the  jar  with  berries  as  closely  as  possible  without  mashing 
them.  Fill  each  jar  up  to  the  shoulder  with  syrup,  cover  loosely  with 
the  lid  and  set  it  in  a  large  boiler,  which  should  have  a  loosely  fitting 
v/ooden  bottom  pierced  with  holes.  If  set  on  the  metal  bottom  the  jars 
are  liable  to  crack.  Wlieii  tiie  boiler  is  full  of  jars  pour  in  cold  water 
up  to  their  shoulders ;  cover  it  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  At  the  same  time 
put  the  surplus  syrup  in  a  saucepan  and  allow  it  to  become  hot.  As  soon 
as  the  water  in  the  boiler  begins  to  boil  note  the  time,  and  when  it  has 
boiled  for  eight  minutes  remove  the  boiler  from  the  fire.  Take  out  one 
jar  at  a  time,  fill  it  even  with  the  hot  syrup  in  the  saucepan,  fasten  it 
airtight  and  stand  it  back  in  the  boiler  until  all  are  filled  and  covered; 
lei.  them  stand  there  until  cold,  and  then  store  in  a  cool  place. 

Uncooked  Canned  Strawberries. — A  correspondent  of  the  Chicago 
Record-Herald  says  that  she  has  preserved  strawberries  and  red  raspber- 
lies  without  cooking  for  years  with  entire  success.  Her  method  is  as  fol- 
lows :  Mash  together  with  a  silver  fork  equal  quantities  of  fruit  and  sugar. 
Let  stand  for.  an  hour  or  more  until  the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved. 
Then  put  into  jelly  glasses  or  pint  jars,  filling  to  the  brim.  Leave  un- 
covered for  48  hours  in  an  open  window  exposed  to  the  sun.  Then  seal 
in  the  usual  way  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  The  flavor  of  the  ber- 
ries is  as  when  picked,  and  the  jam  is  rich  and  delicious.  All  utensils 
used  must  be  absolutely  clean  and  jars  sterilized. 

Dried  Strawberries. — One  quart  of  strawberries,  clean  off  the  stem  and 
hull.  Wash;  add  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  put  in  a  porcelain 
or  granite  kettle,  set  on  stove,  and  heat  gently  till  they  come  to  a  boiling 
point,  then  boil  hard  for  20  minutes.     Do  not  stir,  just  shake  the  kettle 


14«  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

enongh  to  keep  from  burning,  then  pour  out  on  large  plates,  and  dry 
in  the  sun  for  at  least  three  days,  or  until  the  juice  has  become  jellied; 
't  may  take  a  longer  time  or  a  little  less  according  to  heat  of  sun.  Do 
not  let  them  stay  out  of  doors  over  night,  as  the  dew  will  cause  the 
juice  to  get  thin  again.  When  the  juice  has  become  jellied,  pack  in  jars 
and  make  airtight.  These  are  most  delicious  and  very  delicate  in  flavor; 
the  berries  are  whole  and  clear. 

Strawberry  and  Currant  Jam. — To  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  also  one  pint  of  red  currant  juice  to  every 
four  pounds  of  the  berries.  Boil  the  currant  juice  with  the  strawberries 
for  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time,  then  add  the  sugar  and  boil  20 
minutes  longer,  skimming  carefully.  Put  in  small  jars  or  tumblers  with 
paraffin  on  top.     The  currant  juice  may  be  omitted. 

Wiesbaden  Strawberries. — Take  six  pounds  of  strawberries — they  need 
not  be  large  or  extra  fine,  but  they  must  be  sound;  add  to  them  in  the 
kettle  a  very  little  cold  water  and  cook  slowly  as  for  jelly.  Pour  in  a 
jelly  bag  and  allow  them  to  drip  overnight.  In  the  morning  add  to  the 
juice  six  pounds  of  broken  loaf  or  granulated  sugar  and  half  a  pound 
of  strained  honey.  Boil  to  a  very  thick  syrup  Fill  pint  cans  with  freshly 
capped  strawberries,  the  largest  and  finest  to  be  had.  Screw  on  the  tops, 
set  in  cold  water  in  a  large  kettle — the  wash  boiler  will  do — and  let  the 
water  come  to  a  boil.  Open  the  jars  and  fill  to  the  brim  with  the 
hot  syrup.     Seal  and  put  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Tomato  Butter. — Cook  ripe  tomatoes,  salt  to  taste  and  put  them 
through  a  colander  to  remove  the  seeds.  Plave  ready  an  equal  quantity 
of  sour  apple  sauce,  well  cooked;  add  it  to  the  tomatoes,  sweeten  slightly 
and  let  it  boil  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Be  careful  that  it  does 
not  burn.     Seal   in  jelly  glasses.     Excellent  to  serve  with  meats. 

Tomato  Butter  No.  2. — Seven  pounds  of  large,  ripe  tomatoes,  four 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cmnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the  toma- 
toes; let  stand  five  minutes,  then  the  skins  can  be  rubbed  off.  Remove 
stem  end,  then  slice  tomatoes.  Cook  until  soft,  add  the  sugar  and  stew 
until  very  thick;  then  add  spices  and  vinegar.  Let  simmer  20  minutes, 
pour  into  jars   and  seal. 

Tomato  and  Apple  Butter. — Scald  and  skin  ripe  tomatoes,  add  a 
quarter  of  the  quantity  of  pared,  cored  and  quartered  pleasant  sour 
apples.  Weigh  the  kettle,  put  in  the  tomatoes  and  apples  and  cook  to  the 
consistency  of  marmalade,  then  to  every  six  pounds  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
ginger,  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon  and  four  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar; 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it  will  spread  smoothly. 

Green  Tomato  Butter. — Select  tomatoes  that  are  full  grown,  but  quite 
green.     Slice  them  thin.     Make  a  syrup  in  proportion  of  one  pound  of 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  143 

sugar  to  two  pounds  of  tomatoes.  Boil  down  slowly  for  four  hours  or 
until  the  butter  is  smooth  and  thick,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  stick- 
ing.    Flavor  with  lemon  when  done. 

Green  Tomato  Conserve. — For  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  slice  six 
lemons  without  removing  the  skin,  but  taking  out  the  seeds.  Put  to  this 
quantity  six  pounds  of  sugar  and  boil  until  transparent  and  the  syrup 
thick.     Ginger  root  may  be  added  if  liked. 

Tomato  Jam. — Select  sound,  ripe  fruit  and  peel  and  quarter  them. 
Then  put  them  into  the  preserving  kettle  with  an  equal  weight  of  loaf 
sugar,  the  strained  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon  for  every  four  pounds  of 
the  fruit,  and  a  little  powdered  ginger.  Cook  the  mixture  slowly  until 
it  jellies  when  tried  en  a  spoon.     Turn  into  jars  and  cover. 

Tomato  Marmalade. — Remove  the  skin  from  four  quarts  of  ripe 
tomatoes  and  slice.  Cut  six  large  lemons  in  halves,  lengthwise,  and  slice 
very  thin.  Seed  one  cup  of  raisins.  Put  the  tomatoes,  raisins  and 
lemons  into  a  preserving  kettle,  in  layers,  alternating  with  four  pounds 
of  granulated  sugar.  Cook  one  hour  on  the  front  of  stove.  Then  set 
the  kettle  back,  and  allow  contents  to  simmer  until  it  is  of  the  consistency 
of  marmalade.  Put  up,  while  hot,  as  jelly.  This  recipe  makes  about 
two  and  one-half  quarts.  When  properly  prepared  no  one  article  will  be 
recognizable.     The  small  yellow  tomatoes  are  nice  for  such  use. 

Tomato  Marmalade  No.  2.— -For  every  two  pounds  of  the  tomatoes 
allow  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
Pour  scalding  water  over  the  tomatoes  to  loosen  the  skins.  After  remov- 
ing the  skin,  mix  the  tomatoes  with  the  sugar  and  boil  slowly  for  one 
hour,  stirring  and  skimming  frequently.  At  the  end  of  that  time  add 
the  lemon  juice  and  rind  and  cook  another  hour  or  until  the  whole  is 
a  thick,  smooth  mass. 

Tomato  Mock-Orange  Marmalade. — Scald  and  peel  large-sized  yellow 
tomatoes.  Cut  downward  over  each  seed  section,  press  open  and  remove 
all  seeds  with  the  thumb,  leaving  the  pulp  comparatively  whole.  To  two 
parts  of  the  prepared  tomatoes  allow  one  part  of  oranges,  slicing  thinly. 
Cover  all  with  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning  pour  off  syrup  and  cook  down  about  half,  add  the  tomatoes 
and  oranges  and  cook  until  the  orange  skins  are  transparent.  Seal  in 
jelly  glasses.  This  is  an  original  recipe,  and  is  a  delightful  substitute 
for  the  genuine   orange  marmalade,  though   much  cheaper. 

Tomato  Mincemeat. — Chop  fine  four  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  drain 
off  juice,  cover  with  cold  water  and  bring  to  a  boil,  scalding  for  30 
minutes,  then  drain.  Repeat  till  parboiled  three  times.  Add  two  pounds 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  seeded  raisins,  one-half  pound  chopped  citron, 
one  large  half  cup  chopped  suet,  one  tablespoonful  salt  and  one-half  cup 


144  TM1£    RVkAL    COOK    BOOK. 

strong  vinegar.  Mix  and  cook  until  thick.  When  cold  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  ground  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
grated  nutmeg    (or  suit  taste).     ]\Iix  thoroughly,   and  keep   in   open  jar. 

Tomato  Clove  Preserves. — To  four  pounds  of  yellov^r  plum  tomatoes, 
not  too  ripe,  allow  four  pounds  of  sugar,  three  lemons  and  one-half 
ounce  (or  according  to  taste)  of  whole  cloves.  Peel  the  tomatoes  with- 
out breaking,  sprinkle  sugar  over  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  pour  off  the  syrup,  add  the  cloves  and  let  it  boil  until  thick,  then 
strain.  Return  to  fire  and  add  the  chopped  pulp  of  the  lemons,  rejecting 
the  skin,  and  the  tomatoes,  and  cook  gently  until  the  tomatoes  look  clear. 
Put  into  jars  and  seal.  To  give  a  quite  different  flavor  substitute  one- 
half  ounce  of  ginger  root  for  the  cloves,  and  proceed  as  above. 

Green  Tomato  Preserves. — Required,  eight  pounds  of  small  green 
tomatoes,  seven  pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  ginger  and  mace  mixed, 
and  the  juice  of  four  lemons.  Pierce  each  of  the  tomatoes  with  a  fork 
and  put  them  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  all  the  other  ingredients.  Heat 
slowly,  then  boil  until  the  tomatoes  are  clear,  then  skim  them  out  and  boil 
the  syrup  until  thick.  Put  tlie  tomatoes  into  jars  and  pour  in  the 
hot  syrup. 

Yellow  Tomato  Preserves. — Put  the  tomatoes  into  a  wire  basket  and 
plunge  into  boiling  water  to  loosen  the  skins.  When  a  cut  is  made  across 
the  skin  its  whole  contents  can  be  quickly  squeezed  out.  Three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  is  allowed  for  each  pound  of  the  fruit  pulp,  and 
sometimes  ginger  root  is  added  for  flavoring.  Prolonged  cooking  is  not 
necessary;  just  before  ready  for  the  jars  add  several  lemons  sliced  in 
thin  even  circles. 

Ruby  Watermelon  Preserves. — Dice  the  red  portion  of  the  melon, 
removing  all  seeds  and  every  bit  of  the  white  part;  weigh  and  use  halt 
as  much  sugar  as  you  have  melon,  adding  to  every  six  pounds  of  melon 
the  juice  and  grated  yellow  rinds  of  two  lemons.  Put  all  together  in  a 
large  granite  kettle  and  boil  slowly,  stirring  often  until  it  is  quite  thick; 
at  first  you  will  think  it  is  all  going  to  water,  but  very  soon  you  will 
notice  it  thicken  nicely;  when  it  has  become  as  thick  as  you  like  it,  seal 
hot  in  glass  pint  jars. 


JELLIES. 

Jelly  should  never  be  stored  in  a  cellar.  It  demands  a  cool,  dry,  dark 
place,  which  can  be  well  ventilated,  to  insure  its  keeping  perfectly.  Great 
care  must  be  given  the  juice,  sugar,  etc.  The  glasses  should  be  hot,  dry 
and   clean    (surgically  clean,   we   mean).     Small   tapering   cups    or    bowls 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  145 

make  jelly  a  nicer  shape  to  turn  out  to  serve,  but  the  regulation  jelly  glass 
with  its  tin  top  comes  much  cheaper. 

A  safe  rule  with  all  fruits  that  do  not  get  firm  is  to  add  sufficient  sour 
apple  juice  to  make  the  jelly  the  right  consistency.  By  choosing  a  bright 
day,  boiling  the  juice  20  minutes  before  adding  the  sugar  and  going  strictly 
according  to  directions  even  an  amateur  can  have  success.  The  best 
jellies  are  not  boiled  as  hard  as  wanted  but  sunned  under  glass  for 
several   days. 

For  filling  the  glasses,  use  a  china  cup  with  a  handle.  A  saucer  or 
small  plate  held  in  the  left  hand  and  moved  with  and  iinder  the  cup  will 
catch  all  drops.  In  case  you  do  not  fill  a  tumbler  full  from  the  first  dip 
add  the  requisite  quantity  immediately  afterward,  so  that  all  will  stiffen 
together,  otherwise  there  may  be  separation  in  the  contents  of  the  tumbler 
when  it  is  turned  out.  As  a  general  rule  for  jelly,  wash  and  drain  the 
fruit,  then  put  it  on  the  stove  in  a  large  stone  crock,  or  in  a  granite 
vessel.  The  fruit  should  be  mature,  but  not  overripe.  Add  no  water 
to  small  and  juicy  fruits.  Large  fruits,  such  as  apples,  peaches  and  pears, 
require  some  water ;  our  rule  is  to  put  the  fruit  in  the  crock,  and  pour  in 
enough  water  to  show  at  the  top.  Cook  slowly,  but  thoroughly,  stirring 
the  fruit,  which  will  thus  be  sufficiently  mashed.  Strain  through  a  flannel 
bag,  which  should  be  scalded  first,  or  through  a  stout  cotton  or  linen;  the 
fiannel  insures  clearness,  but  we  have  no  trouble  with  this  when  properly 
boiled,  nor  do  we  add  white  of  egg,  as  some  cooks  recommend.  Most 
people  advise  letting  the  fruit  drain  over  night,  and  boiling  the  next  day, 
but  we  think  it  jellies  better  if  the  fruit  is  cooked,  drained,  and  the  juice 
boiled  the  same  day.  The  bag  is  of  course  hung  over  a  large  china  bowl, 
and  pressed  down  a  little  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  its  own  weight,  however, 
soon  drains  it  dry.  The  juice  is  measured,  and  put  on  to  boil ;  granulated 
sugar  is  measured,  cup  for  cup,  and  put  in  a  bowl  on  the  back  of  the 
stove,  wliere  it  is  heated,  being  stirred  from  time  to  time,  so  that  by  the 
time  the  juice  boils  it  is  well  heated  through.  Any  scum  that  arises  is 
skimmed  off,  and  as  soon  as  the  juice  comes  to  a  boil  the  warmed  sugar 
is  stirred  in.  Continue  to  skim  it  as  needed,  and  notice  when  it  comes 
to  a  boil.  Currant  jelly  made  in  this  way  will  only  need  three  minutes' 
boiling;  other  small  fruits  a  little  longer;  they  should  be  tested  in  a  little 
cup.  If  boiled  too  long  jelly  becomes  ropy.  If  boiled  too  hard,  so  that 
sugar  crystallizes  on  the  sides  of  the  kettle,  which  is  stirred  in  afterwards, 
the  jelly  may  candy.  In  making  jelly  from  fruit  to  which  water  has  been 
added,  as  crab  apple,  it  is  measured,  and  three-quarters  the  amount  of 
sugar  put  to  heat.  When  put  i:i  the  kettle,  the  depth  of  juice  is  measured 
with  a  stick,  on  which  are  two  notches,  one  for  the  original  depth,  and 
one  for  two-thirds  the  amount.  As  soon  as  the  juice  has  boiled  down 
one-third  add  the  warmed  sugar,  and  boil. 


14«  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Apple  Jelly.—We  like  Fall  Pippins  fof  this  purpose,  but  Gravenstein 
or  any  other  highly-flavored  apple,  nearly  ripe,  makes  a  fine  jelly.  The 
jelly  is  excellent  without  any  additional  flavoring,  but  we  prefer  to  add 
Rose  geranium  leaves,  which  render  it  delicious ;  four  leaves  to  a  quart 
of  jelly.  The  leaves  are  put  in  with  the  sugar,  and  taken  out  when  the 
jelly  is  put  in  glasses.  Another  variation  is  made  by  using  three  whole 
cloves  to  a  quart  of  jelly;  this  imitates  the  nutmeg  jelly  made  in  Trinidad, 
the  spiciness  being  so  faint  that  it  does  not  overpower  the  fruit  flavor. 
To  prepare  apples  for  jelly,  wipe  them  with  a  damp  cloth,  remove  the 
stem  and  blossom  ends  and  cut  in  quarters.  Put  in  granite  or  porcelain- 
lined  preserve  kettle,  and  for  three  pounds  of  apples  add  one  pint  of 
water.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  until  apples  are  soft;  mash,  then  drain 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Do  not  squeeze,  or  jelly  will  be  cloudy.  Next 
allow  juice  to  drip  through  a  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth  or  flannel 
jelly  bag.  Or  they  may  be  turned  directly  into  jelly  bag  and  allowed  to 
drip  over  night.  Measure  juice,  boil  20  minutes,  and  add  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  heated  granulated  sugar,  boil  five  minutes,  skim  and  turn  into 
glasses  that  have  been  dipped  into  scalding  water  and  placed  on  a  wet 
cloth.  Put  a  silver  spoon  in  the  tumbler  before  turning  the  jelly  in  as 
another  means  of  avoiding  cracking  the  glass;  it  can  be  moved  from 
tumbler  to  tumbler  as  you  proceed.  Fill  brimming  full,  as  the  jelly  will 
shrink  as  it  cools.  The  glasses  may  now  be  placed  in  a  sunny  window, 
protected  from  dust,  and  let  stand  for  24  hours.  Cover  with  melted 
paraffin,  poured  directly  on  to  the  jelly;  then  seal  as  usual. 

Apple  Combination. — A  housewife  who  has  tried  it  says  that  a  deli- 
cious combination  jelly  is  made  by  cooking  a  half  peck  each  of  apples 
and  quinces  and  a  quart  of  cranberries  together  until  soft,  after  barely 
covering  with  water.  Strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  allow  a  scant  pint 
of  sugar,  then  proceed  as  with  other  jellies.  It  is  delicately  flavored,  and 
a  beautiful  pink  in  color. 

Barberry  Jell3^ — For  domestic  use  the  berries  should  not  be  gathered 
until  well  frosted.  For  jelly  the  fruit  need  not  be  stripped  from  the  stems. 
Put  the  fruit  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  water  to  come  to  the  top  of  the 
berries  and  boil  until  thoroughly  cooked,  then  put  into  a  jelly  bag  and 
drain  out  the  juice;  return  the  juice  to  the  kettle  and  boil  hard  15  minutes. 
Measure  it  before  boiling  down.  Add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  and 
boil  rapidly  10  minutes,  then  put  away  in  glasses.  This  is  an  excellent 
jelly  to  serve  with  meat. 

Blackberry  Jelly. — Make  the  same  as  currant  -jelly. 

Crab-apple  Jelly. — Wash,  cut  in  pieces  two  gallons  of  crab  apples; 
place  in  the  preserving  kettle,  just  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  until 
the  pieces  are  tender.  Drain  through  cheesecloth,  measure,  and  when 
the  juice  has  boiled  10  minutes,  stir  in  one  pound  white  sugar  to  each 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  UT 

pint  of  juice.  Boil  hard  until  it  is  jelly;  about  10  minutes'  boiling  after 
the  sugar  has  been  added.  Now  take  the  tender  pieces  left  after  straining, 
rub  through  a  sieve  or  colander ;  to  each  pint  of  pulp  add  one-half  as 
much  sugar.  Cook  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  blended  with  the  pulp, 
stirring  quite  frequently.  Add  spices  if  preferred,  fill  into  glass  cans,  seal, 
and  take  to  the  cellar  when  cool.  This  makes  a  delicious  butter,  almost 
a  marmalade,  and  is  very  nice  in  the  Winter  with  pork.  Two  gallons  of 
crab  apples  will  make  six  glasses  of  jelly  and  five  or  six  quarts  of  butter 
with  the  addition  of  11  pounds  of  sugar.  Crab  apple  will  mix  well  with 
wild  grapes  for  jell3^  The  two  fruits  should  be  cooked  together,  and 
made  like  any  other  jelly.  The  proportion  may  be  whatever  is  most 
convenient;  half  and  half,  or  one-third  grapes  to  two-thirds  apples,  will 
be  found  excellent. 

Wild  Crab-apple  Jelly. — Cook  the  cored  crabs  till  tender  and  drip  in  a 
jelly  bag.  Use  more  sugar  than  for  ordinary  jelly — about  five  cups  of 
sugar  to  four  of  juice — and  cook  quickly.  This  is  delicious  both  in 
color  and  flavor. 

Mrs.  C.'s  Currant  Jelly. — The  currants  are  picked  over  as  if  for 
canning,  then  put  in  the  preserving  kettle.  As  the  fruit  heats,  it  is  mashed 
with  a  large  spoon  until  juice  is  pretty  nearly  all  extracted.  The  juice 
is  all  dipped  off  and  her  jelly  is  made  according  to  the  common  recipe. 
She  now  adds  to  the  currants  left  in  kettle  an  equal  amount  of  raspber- 
ries— either  black  or  red  is  added,  and  jam  is  made  by  the  addition  of 
diree-fourths  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 
In  this  way  she  says  jelly  making  is  an  easy  task,  and  she  also  has  the 
consciousness  of  having  used  every  bit  of  the  currants. 

Elderberry  Jelly. — Strip  the  ripe  berries  into  the  kettle  and  stir  over 
the  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  juice  flows  freely;  turn  into  a 
jelly  bag  and  let  drain  without  touching  so  as  not  to  become  cloudy. 
Weigh  and  boil  sharply  15  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  sugar, 
allowing  14  ounces  to  one  pint  of  juice.  Boil  15  minutes,  stirring  and 
skimming  until  it  jellies.     This  is  an  English  recipe  and  a  very  good  one. 

Elderberry  Jelly  No.  2. — Take  equal  parts  of  elderberries  and  wild 
grapes,  and  cook  to  extract  juice,  strain,  add  sugar  in  proportion  of  one 
pound  to  each  pint  of  liquid,  and  cook  as  other  jelly.  This  is  especially 
nice  for  invalids,  and  beneficial  in  cases  of  sore  throat. 

Grape  Jelly. — The  wild  grapes  gathered  just  as  they  begin  to  turn  are 
the  best  for  jelly.  Free  them  from  their  stems  and  wash  them,  mash 
them,  and  heat  slowly;  cook  them  until  the  juice  is  well  drawn  out;  turn 
into  a  flannel  bag  and  let  it  drip  without  pressure;  measure  the  juice,  and, 
if  cultivated  grapes  are  used,  allow  an  equal  amount  of  sugar;  if  the  wild 
grape,  allow  a  little  more  than  an  equal  measure.  Heat  the  sugar  (put  in 
a  pan  in  the  oven  and  stir  often)  ;  boil  the  strained  juice  15  minutes;  skim 


148  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

and  strain  again,  add  the  sugar,  boil  until  the  surface  looks  wrinkled,  skim 
well  and  turn  into  glasses. 

Green  Grape  Jelly. — Select  the  grapes  when  full  grown,  just  before 
they  begin  to  turn  purple.  After  separating  from  the  stem,  wash,  adding 
a  little  water  if  the  grapes  are  not  very  juicy.  IMash  and  stew  until  the 
skins  are  cooked.  Strain  first  through  the  colander,  then  through  the  jelly 
bag.  Measure  the  juice,  measure  the  same  amount  of  sugar,  putting  it  in 
the  oven  while  the  juice  is  being  boiled.  The  boiling  will  take  half  an 
hour.  Now  add  the  hot  sugar,  which  you  must  be  careful  not  to  scorch, 
boil  about  five  minutes  longer,  and  then  the  jelly  should  be  ready  to  pour 
in  glasses.  Jelly  made  from  the  green  grapes  is  solid,  of  a  delicious  flavor 
and  of  a  pretty  green  tint. 

Spiced  Grape  Jelly. — This  is  delicious  served  with  cold  meats.  Take 
equal  amounts  of  grape  juice  and  sugar.  Add  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cloves  and  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  to  each  quart  of  juice. 
Add  the  sugar  as  directed  in  recipe  above. 

IMarble  Jelly. — A  dark  jelly,  such  as  blackberry  or  grape,  is  poured  into 
a  half-gallon  crock;  as  soon  as  this  hardens  a  light  jelly,  apple,  quin.:e  or 
pear,  is  poured  on  top ;  so  on  in  alternate  layers  until  the  crock  is  filled. 
The  layers  look  prettiest  when  but  an  inch  thick.  Slice  in  half-inch  slices, 
serve  on  a  pretty  glass  dish.  Besides  being  unique  in  appearance  the 
blending  of  flavors  is  decidedly  appetizing. 

Peach  Jelly. — Take  sound,  high-flavored,  barely  ripe  peaches.  Wash 
them  thoroughly.  Use  the  parings  and  a  few  pieces  of  fruit.  Boil  in 
enough  water  to  cover  in  an  enameled  kettle  until  the  skins  are  tender 
and  broken.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Allow  the  juice  of  one  lemon 
and  one  scant  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice  twenty 
minutes  after  straining,  and  m.eantime  heat  the  sugar  in  the  oven.  Put 
the  sugar  into  the  juice  slowly,  let  boil  five  minutes  and  pour  into  tumblers. 

Peach  Jelly  No,  2. — Take  the  peach  parings  from  a  peck  or  two  of 
peaches  and  simmer  with  sour  apples  till  the  whole  mass  is  tender.  Have 
twice  the  quantity  of  peach  that  you  have  of  apple  and  make  your  jelly 
in  the  ordinary  way. 

Pear  Jelly. — Select  juicy  pears  that  are  not  top  ripe,  quarter,  core  and 
cut  in  small  pieces  without  paring.  Put  in  a  kettle'  with  one  pint  of 
water  to  every  four  pounds  of  pears.  Cook  over  a  slow  fire  to  a  pulp, 
turn  into  a  jelly  bag  which  has  been  wrung  out,  and  let  drip  without 
squeezing.  Measure  the  juice  and  allow  the  same  quantity  of  sugar.  Put 
the  liquid  over  the  fire,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  20  minutes.  In 
the  meantime  heat  the  sugar  by  spreading  it  out  on  pans  and  setting  it  in 
an  open  oven;  when  the  pear  juice  has  boiled  twenty  minutes  add  the 
heated  sugar,  stir  until  it  is  dissolved,  bring  again  to  the  boiling  point, 
and   boil  until   in   dropping  a   spoonful   on  a  cold   saucer   a   skin   forms 


THE    RURAL     COOK    BOOK.  1-19 

quickly  over  it;  this  will  generally  occur  after  five  or  ten  minutes'  boiling. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  pour  into  jelly  glasses.  Let  stand  until  cold,  pour 
over  the  top  of  each  glass  a  little  melted  paraffin,  and  when  it  hardens 
cover. 

Plum  Jelly. — Pour  boiling  water  over  one-half  peck  of  plums  placed 
in  a  colander.  Then  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle,  pour  over  them  just 
enough  water  to  cover  and  boil  until  the  plums  have  become  soft  and 
the  juice  has  flowed  out.  Drain  through  a  colander,  then  through  a  jelly 
bag  without  squeezing.  Measure  juice  and  put  to  boil  in  preserve  kettle. 
Add  one  dozen  blanched  plum  kernels.  Allow  an  equal  measure  of 
granulated  sugar  and  put  it  to  heat  in  shallow  pans  in  the  oven.  When 
the  juice  has  boiled  20  minutes  skim  well,  add  the  hot  sug.ir,  stir  until 
dissolved,  let  come  to  the  boiling  point,  take  immediately  from  the  fire 
and  fill  into  glasses  which  have  been  rolled  in  boiling  water,  drained  and 
stood  upright  on  a  cloth  folded  in  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water.  Use 
a  small  teacup  to  dip  the  jelly  into  the  tumblers,  and  fill  them  very  full. 
Cover  airtight  next  day.  The  pulp  remaining  may  be  used  to  make  a 
little  marmalade,  allowing  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  sugar  to  one  pint 
of  pulp,  and  a   few  blanched  kernels   from  the   plum   stones. 

Plum  and  Green  Grape  Jelly. — Plums  mixed  with  green  grapes  make 
the  most  delicious  of  all  tart  jellies.  Small  yellow  plums  are  the  best. 
Wash,  pick  and  scald  them  with  their  own  bulk  of  green  grapes  picked 
from  the  stem,  strain  out  the  juice,  let  it  settle  10  minutes,  then  pour  it 
carefully  off  the  sediment.  Put  in  a  shallow  kettle  over  a  quick  fire,  boil 
for  five  minutes,  skimming  well;  then  add  for  each  pint  of  juice  a  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  very  hot  granulated  sugar ;  stir  hard  until  the  sugar 
dissolves;  then  skim  again  and  boil  hard  for  two  minutes.  Drop  a  little 
in  ice  water — the  minute  this  hardens  take  it  off  the  fire  and  pour  into 
hot  glasses. 

Plum  and  Peach.— Japan  plums  not  quite  ripe,  with  a  few  peaches, 
make  a  nice  clear  amber  jelly. 

Quince  Jelly. — Simmer  the  quinces  in  a  stone  jar  till  tender  in  enough 
water  to  cover  them.  Drip  and  strain  the  juice  and  boil  20  minutes  before 
adding  an  almost  equal  amount  of  sugar.  This  will  be  a  beautiful  color 
if  well  made  and  have  a  delicate  flavor. 

Quince  Jelly  No.  2. — Place  the  parings  and  cores  left  from  preserving 
in  the  preserving  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  until  the  parings 
are  soft ;  strain  through  cheesecloth,  measure,  and  when  boiling  hard,  put 
a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  each  pint  of  the  juice.  Boil  hard  until  it  will 
set.  Ten  minutes  of  hard  boiling  is  usually  enough;  then  pour  into 
glasses. 

Quince  and  Cranberry. — Stew  cores  and  skins  of  quinces  in  very  little 
water,   and    strain   the   juice   as    for   quince   jelly;    stew   tart   cranberries 


150  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

separately  in  very  little  water,  strain,  and  combine  with  an  equal  propor- 
tion of  quince  juice.  Add  to  the  combined  juices  one  cupful  of  sugar  to 
each  cupful  of  juice,  and  boil  briskly  until  it  jellies. 

Raspberry  Jelly. — One  of  our  friends  tells  us  with  pride  that  she  made 
delicious  stiff  raspberry  jelly  last  year  by  mixing  the  red  raspberries  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  green  grapes.  The  two  fruits  were  cooked  together, 
then  strained  as  usual.  The  resulting  jelly  was  clear  red,  with  full  rasp- 
berry flavor.  Our  friend  had  never  been  able  to  make  raspberries  "jell" 
properly  before,  so  she  was  much  pleased  with  the  experiment.  It  is 
quite  possible  that  green  grapes  would  stiffen  strawberry  jelly,  which  is 
usually  difficult  to  harden.  Some  experimenters  say  they  mix  either  red 
currants  or  early  apples  with  strawberries  to  make  jelly.  If  raspberries 
and  Summer  apples  are  available  at  the  same  time,  a  combination  of  the 
two  will  make  an  excellent  jelly.  Cook  and  strain  separately,  then  mix 
the  juice,  and  proceed  as  with  any  other  jelly.  Raspberry  and  red  cur- 
rants mixed  are  excellent. 

Rhubarb  Jelly. — On  account  of  the  watery'-  consistency  of  the  fruit  it 
cannot  be  made  into  jelly  as  readily  as  most  fruit.  A  fine  jelly  and  one 
specially  suitable  for  serving  with  game  can  be  made  if  the  following 
directions  are  observed:  Let  the  rhubarb  heat  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
until  the  juice  flows  freely.  Strain  the  juice  through  a  jelly  bag.  Do  not 
squeeze  the  bag  into  .the  jelly,  but  use  only  what  will  drip  of  itself.  The 
bag  can  be  squeezed  into  a  different  vessel,  and  the  liquid  thus  gained  can 
be  re-added  to  the  pulp  of  the  rhubarb  and  made  into  jam.  Take  the 
rhubarb  juice  and  boil  gently  for  10  minutes.  Measure  and  to  each  pint 
allow  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  until  a  little  poured  out  on  a 
cold  plate  will  set  nicely.  Do  not  measure  the  juice  before  it  has  been 
boiled.  Such  treatment  is  needed  to  reduce  the  water  and  make  the  pure 
juice  and  sugar  jelly  properly.  If  care  is  taken  in  the  boiling  of  the 
jelly,  it  turns  out  a  pretty  color  and  is  very  desirable  for  garnishing 
various  dishes. 

Rhubarb  Jelly  No.  2. — ^Cut  off  the  leaves  and  ends  from  the  stalks, 
and  wipe  with  a  clean,  damp  cloth.  Use  an  earthen  dish  for  cooking. 
Without  removing  the  skins,  cut  the  rhubarb  into  pieces  2^  inches  long, 
and  put  over  them  IJ^  cupful  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  leifion  peel,  and  a  pint 
of  water,  this  proportion  to  two  pounds  of  rhubarb.  Cover  and  set  in 
the  oven  on  a  shelf.  Moisten  a  half  ounce  of  white  gelatine  in  a  quarter 
of  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  When  the  rhubarb  rs  tender  put  the  gelatine 
in  a  large  bowl,  on  which  an  earthen  colander  is  placed.  Pour  the 
rhubarb  on  this,  but  remove  it  very  soon  to  a  dish,  in  order  to  retain 
sufficient  juice  with  it.  Stir  the  hot  liquid  underneath,  and  when  the 
gelatine  is  dissolved  pour  into  teacups  or  molds   dipped  in  cold  water. 

Strawberry  Jelly. — To   10  quarts   of  strawberries   add   two   quarts   of 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  161 

currants,  and  proceed  as  for  currant  jelly,  but  boil  15  minutes.  Or 
use  apple  juice  instead  of  currants. 

Tomato  Jelly. — Simmer  yellow  tomatoes  without  water  till  pulpy  and 
then  drip  in  a  bag.  Take  equal  parts  of  tomato  and  apple  juice  and 
proceed  in  the  ordinary  way. 

Watermelon  Jelly. — Alash  the  heart  of  a  dead-ripe  melon  and  strain 
the  juice  so  obtained.  Boil  to  a  thick  syrup  with  equal  parts  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  add  to  apple  juice;  then  proceed  as  for  apple  jelly. 

We  always  pour  melted  paraffin  over  the  top  of  our  jelly  before 
putting  the  cover  on.  Break  the  paraffin  in  pieces,  put  in  a  cup,  and  set 
the  cup  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  on  the  back  of  the  stove;  it  will  soon 
melt  enough  to  pour.  It  should  be  one-fourth  inch  thick  over  the  jelly; 
if  too  thin  it  cracks.  If  you  heive  reason  to  fear  mold,  cut  disks  of  white 
paper  to  fit  the  top  of  the  glass;  dip  in  brandy  or  grain  alcohol,  and  pour 
the  paraffin  over  this.  If  the  room  or  closet  in  which  jelly  is  stored  is 
damp,  Prof.  Conn  recommends  setting  a  few  lumps  of  unslaked  lime  about 
on  the  shcives,  removing  when  they  crumble. 


CANDIED  FRUITS. 

Cherries. — Get  large,  sound  cherries  and  cut  off  the  stem  to  avoid  tear- 
ing the  fruit.  Wipe  with  a  soft  cloth.  Weigh  the  cherries  and  then 
weigh  out  an  equal  amount  of  fine  sugar.  Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  the 
cherries  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  With  the  rest  of  the  sugar  make  a 
thick  syrup  and  let  that  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  bring  the  syrup 
to  boiling  heat;  put  the  cherries  in  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Let  them 
stand  together  for  24  hours,  drain  off  the  syrup  and  boil  long  enough  to 
get  rid  of  the  juice  from  the  cherries  (until  a  thick  syrup  as  it  was  at 
first)  and  pour  over  the  cherries.  The  next  morning  drain  oft'  the  syrup 
and  boil  to  candy  degree.  Dip  each  cherry  in  this  and  put  on  a  sieve,  in 
a  warm  place  to  dry.  When  perfectly  dry  pack  in  glass,  or  in  boxes  with, 
waxed  paper  between  layers. 

Oranges. — Peel  the  oranges  and  separate  the  sections  without  breaking 
the  white  skin  that  covers  them.  Place  on  plates  and  keep  where  it  is 
warm  until  dry.  Make  a  syrup  with  granulated  sugar ;  boil  until  it  will 
thread  and  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  for  each  pound  of 
sugar  used.  Boil  until  it  begins  to  turn  straw-colored.  The  instant  this 
change  of  color  shows  lift  the  pan  and  set  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 
Now  take  the  sections  of  orange  on  a  greased  fork;  dip  them  carefully 
in  the  syrup,  and  drop  on  waxed  paper  to  dry.  Lay  the  orange  on  the 
fork,  never  stick  the  fork  through  the  skin.  If  the  syrup  begins  to  harden 
it  may  be  heated  again.     Don't  stir  the  syrup  at  any  stage  of  the  work, 


152  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

and  when  dipping  the  orange  do  it  gently,  or  the  syrup  will  be  spoiled,  and 
for  this  reason  it  is  not  advisable  to  use  more  than  a  pound  of  sugar  at 
one  time. 

Peaches. — Pare  and  halve  enough  large  peaches  to  weigh  two  pounds. 
Make  a  syrup  with  one-haif  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water  by 
boiling  together  for  five  minutes.  Drop  the  fruit  in  and  cook  gently  until 
tender,  then  drain  out  and  spread  on  plates.  Boil  the  syrup  until  fairly 
thick  and  pour  over  the  fruit.  Place  the  plates  in  a  warm  oven  ;  turn  the 
fruit  over  frequently  until  dry.  Roll  each  piece  in  granulated  sugar  and 
put  in  hot  sunshine.  Let  stand  in  sun  an  hour  or  two.  When  cooled 
pack   in   layers    between   waxed   paper. 

Pineapple. — Get  the  finest  fruit  to  be  had ;  pare  and  cut  into  the  thin- 
nest possible  slices.  Weigh,  and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit.  Spread  sliced  fruit  on  platters  and  sprinkle  the  sugar  over  it.  Keep 
in  a  warm  place  for  a  week — or  until  dry — then  put  in  a  hot  oven  for  10 
minutes.     When  cold,  pack  between  waxed  papers. 

Quinces. — Boil  fruit  until  tender  in  as  little  water  as  possible  (may 
be  steamed)  and  put  through  a  sieve.  Weigh  the  sifted  fruit  and  to  each 
pound  of  fruit  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put  fruit  and  sugar  together 
and  boil  until  very  thick.  Spread  on  plates ;  dry  in  oven  or  sun ;  cut  in 
bars;  roll  in  sugar;  dry  again,  and  pack  like  the  others  described,  or  wrap 
each  bar  in  waxed  paper.  Tin  boxes  are  fine  for  packing  away  these 
fruits,  but  small  tin  pails  will  serve  the  purpose  equally  well.  Glass  cans 
are  good  so  far  as  keeping  quality  goes,  but  are  not  so  easy  to  use. 

CANNING  VEGETABLES. 

Vegetables  for  canning  should  be  fresh  gathered,  and  of  the  highest 
quality,  just  in  the  right  condition  for  eating. 

Asparagus. — Straight-sided  quart  glass  jars,  such  as  the  "Royal,"  should 
be  used  for  asparagus,  so  as  to  avoid  breaking  the  stalks.  Wash  care- 
fully, cut  the  right  length  to  stand  the  whole  stalk  upright  in  the  jar 
and  pack  in  snugly,  heads  up;  then  pour  in  cold  water  slowly,  until  the 
jar  is  full  to  overflowing,  and  lay  on  the  tops.  Place  straw  or  boards  in 
the  bottom  of  the  wash-boiler,  stand  the  jars  on  this,  and  pour  in  enough 
cold  water  to  come  half  way  up  the  jars;  put  the  boilerover  the  fire,  and 
when  the  v/ater  comes  to  a  boil,  boil  steadily,  for  three  hours.  Take  up 
the  jars,  see  that  they  are  full  to  overflowing  (if  not  fill  up  with  boiling 
water)  put  on  rubbers  and  screw  or  otherwise  fasten  the  covers  tight. 
Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Another  recipe  recommends  boiling  the 
asparagus  for  15  minutes,  then  putting  in  the  jar,  and  boiling  in  the 
wash-boiler  for  1^  hour,  but  we  think  some  of  the  stalks  are  very 
likely  to  be  broken  by  this  method. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  153 

..Beans. — String  beans  are  cut  in  lengths,  boiled  for  10  minutes,  then 
put  into  cans,  which  are  stood  in  a  kettle  of  water  and  boiled  for  two 
hours.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  fill  the  jar  to  overflowing  with  boiling 
water,  screw  up,  and  keep  in  a  cool  dark  place.  Another  plan  is  as 
follows :  Wash  and  break  each  pod  in  two  or  three  pieces,  put  on  the 
stove  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  salt  water  and  when  it  just  commences  to 
bubble  (don't  let  it  boil)  drain  the  beans  out  and  put  in  cans  that  have 
been  washed  and  scalded.  Have  ready  another  saucepan  of  boiling  salt 
water  and  fill  the  cans  nearly  to  the  brim,  leaving  just  room  enough  for 
one  tablespoonful  of  hot  vinegar,  screw  on  the  caps  and  set  away.  When 
wanted  for  use  pour  off  the  brine  and  put  in  a  saucepan  of  fresh  water 
with  a  pinch  of  soda  added ;  let  them  come  to  a  boil  and  immediately 
pour  off  the  water,  then  cook   as  you  would   fresh  beans. 

Dried  String  Beans. — When  fit  for  the  table  pick  and  prepare  them 
by  removing  the  strings  and  breaking  up  into  inch  pieces ;  put  into  a 
kettle  of  cold  water  and  then  bring  to  a  scalding  heat.  Skim  out,  spread 
on  plates  and  dry  in  the  oven  or  out  of  doors  until  all  moisture  is 
removed.  Put  away  in  bags  until  snow  flies,  then  take  out  a  quart  and 
soak  in  cold  water  over  night.  Next  morning  boil  with  a  good-sized 
piece  of  sweet  salt  pork  until  tender. 

Beets. — Young  beets  are  delicious  canned ;  cook  until  tender  in  salted 
water  the  same  as  for  table  use.  Cut  in  thin  slices,  fill  the  cans  and  cover 
v>'ith   hot  vinegar,  sweetened  and   spiced,   seal. 

Cauliflower. — Cauliflower  may  be  canned  either  in  vinegar  or  water. 
Break  into  flowerets  and  cook  until  tender  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
pack  the  cans  as  full  as  possible,  add  the  salt,  and  fill  to  overflowing  with 
hot  liquor  in  which  it  was  cooked,  seal.  When  vinegar  is  used,  steam  the 
cauliflower  until  tender,  fill  into  cans  and  pour  over  hot  vinegar,  sweet- 
ened  and   soiced. 

Corn. — For  canned  corn  cut  the  kernels  off  the  cob  with  a  sharp 
knife,  scraping  out  the  pulp.  Fill  into  the  can  a  little  at  a  time,  pressing 
it  down  firmly  until  the  milk  overflows  the  can.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  When  all  are  filled  place  the  cans  in  a  boiler  and  cook  half  an 
hour'  with  the  covers  laid  loosely  on.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  seal, 
then  cook  two  hours  longer.  The  preliminary  cooking  permits  the  corn 
to  swell  without  endangering  the  cans,  which  may  burst  if  tightly  sealed 
from  the  first.  Succotash  is  canned  by  first  half  filling  the  cans  with 
green  Lima  beans,  then  filling  the  remainder  of  the  can  with  corn, 
pressed  down  firmly.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  each  can,  and  cook 
like  corn. 

Salted  Corn. — This  recipe  has  been  highly  endorsed  by  readers  who 
have  tried  it.  Have  corn  "just  right"  for  eating.  While  it  may  be 
brought   from  the  field  the  previous  evening  it  should  not  be  prepared 


154  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

otherwise  until  the  following  mornings,  as  there  is  danger  of  its  souring. 
Clean  and  scald  your  boiler  thoroughly  and  fill  with  the  corn  properly 
husked  and  silked,  discarding  all  ears  either  over  or  under  ripe.  Cook 
as  for  the  table.  Removing  from  the  boiler,  score  each  row  of  kernels 
with  a  sharp  knife  and  shave  off  not  too  close  to  the  cob.  After  cutting 
from  cob,  measure  and  to  each  eight  pints  of  corn  add  one  pint  of  salt 
and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  hands  until  a  brine  is  formed.  Have  ready 
a  well-scalded  and  clean  crock  and  pack  corn  in  this  as  it  is  mixed. 
When  jar  is  filled  within  one  inch  of  top,  cover  with  a  clean  white  cloth 
large  enough  to  hang  over  edge  of  crock.  On  this  cloth  put  about  an 
inch  of  salt,  and  on  the  salt  a  plate  that  fits  the  top  of  jar.  Now  it  is 
ready  to  put  in  the  cellar  or  any  cool  place  for  Fall  and  Winter  use,  but 
in  its  preparation  for  the  table  lies  the  secret  of  its  success.  There  is 
only  one  way  of  making  it  palatable,  but  with  directions  strictly  adhered 
to  it  is  preferred  by  many  to  canned  corn.  About  one  and  one-half  hour 
before  the  meal  at  which  one  wishes  to  serve  it  it  must  be  brought  from 
the  cellar — enough  for  one  meal — and  cold  water  enough  to  cover  poured 
on  and  at  once  poured  off.  Then  sufficient  boiling  water  is  poured  on  to 
cover  and  it  is  allowed  to  stand  on  the  back  of  the  range  for  15  minutes. 
This  water  is  drained  off  and  sufficient  fresh  boiling  water  poured  on  to 
cover  and  the  same  time  allowed.  This  process  is  repeated  twice  more, 
in  all  four  times. ,  Then  cream,  butter,  sugar  and  if  liked  a  little  pepper 
is  added.  In  short  after  pouring  off  the  water  for  the  fourth  time  it  is 
prepared  exactly  as  canned  corn.  The  process  of  removing  the  salt  by  a 
swift  boiling  water  process  instead  of  a  slow  cold  water  process  seems 
to  leave  the  corn  as  fresh  as  when  taken  from  the  cob.  This,  together 
with  the  ease  with  which  it  is  prepared — so  much  easier  and  surer  than 
canning — makes  the  process  ideal. 

Southern  Dried  Corn. — Sew  firmly  into  a  quilting-frame  a  strong 
sheet.  Gather  the  corn  when  ready  for  use,  husk  and  remove  silk.  Put 
on  in  boiler,  cover  with  water  and  when  it  starts  boiling  let  cook  well 
for  10  or  15  minutes.  Take  off,  allow  it  to  cool  some,  then  score  and  cut 
off,  but  not  too  close,  to  have  it  shucky,  and  scrape  off  what  remains  on 
ear.  Have  your  frame  out  in  a  sunny  place,  spread  corn  evenly  upon  it, 
cover  with  a  mosquito  netting  and  it  will  dry  quickly  in  this  way,  as  it 
dries  from  below  just  as  fast  as  above.  Then  at  some  convenient  time 
when  the  oven  is  piping  hot  put  it  in  the  oven  to  heat  well  through  in 
order  to  kill  any  chance  "microbe."  When  it  comes  time  to  cook  the 
dried  corn  wash  well  in  water.  Put  to  soak  in  milk  over  night  and  cook 
in  the  milk  it  soaked  in;  season  with  sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and 
you  will  find  it  very  good  and  know  that  it  is  clean. 

Uncooked  Canned  Corn. — Prepare  corn  by  removing  husks  and  silk; 
break  into  pieces  large  enough  to  fit  into  two-quart  cans.     Season  cold 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  155 

water  with  just  enough  salt  to  taste.  Then  fill  the  cans  up  with  this 
salt  water;  have  new  rubbers  for  cans,  and  when  you  have  got  the  air 
bubbles  all  out  seal  your  cans  and  stand  them  upside  down  to  see  that 
they  do  not  leak.  If  they  do  not  your  corn  will  keep  all  right.  Some 
cut  it  off  and  can  same  way,  but  always  fill  the  can  first  and  then  put 
in  the  salt  water.     We  are  told  that  this  corn  keeps  perfectly. 

Peas. — To  can  peas,  fill  the  jars  full  of  peas,  uncooked;  then  fill 
with  cold  water,  and  lay  on  the  tops.  Place  straw  or  boards  in  the 
bottom  of  the  wash  boiler,  stand  the  jars  on  this,  and  pour  enough  cold 
water  in  the  boiler  to  come  half  way  up  the  jars.  Put  the  boiler  on  the 
stove  with  the  lid  tightly  closed,  and  boil  three  hours.  When  the  jars 
are  taken  out,  see  that  they  are  fuU  to  overflowing,  and  screw  the  lid 
on  tight.  Another  method  of  preparing  peas  is  to  cook  five  minutes 
in  very  little  water,  then  fill  the  cans,  and  place  them  in  the  boiler  to 
cook  for  one  hour.  A  teaspoonful  of  salt  is  added  the  last  thing  before 
sealing. 

Dried  Peas. — Green  peas  are  dried  as  follows :  Shell  the  peas,  put 
them  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  then  spread  out 
in  shallow  trays,  and  dry  in  the  sun,  or  near  the  stove.  When  dry,  store 
away  in  paper  bags,  in  a  dry  place.  The  peas  should  be  soaked  before 
using;   then  boiled  in  salted  water. 

Tomatoes. — Scald  to  remove  the  skins,  put  in  the  jars  whole  or  halved, 
fill  up  with  cold  water;  stand  the  jars  in  the  wash  boiler,  boil  30  minutes, 
and  seal.  Do  not  use  any  overripe  or  fermenting  fruit.  The  main  things 
to  observe  in  canning  vegetables  are  that  the  jars  are  filled  to  overflow- 
ing; that  they  are  hermetically  sealed,  while  hot,  and  that  they  are  stored 
in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Vegetables,  like  fruits,  should  be  taken  in  their 
regular  order   and   canned  while  in  the  best  possible   condition. 

Tomatoes  Canned  Whole. — Select  firm,  smooth  fruit,  not  overripe, 
and  of  a  size  to  slip  into  the  ordinary  fruit  jar.  Peel  without  breaking 
and  with  as  little  scalding  as  possible.  Have  ready  a  preserving  kettle 
full  of  water,  which  has  been  salted  slightly,  only  enough  to  taste.  Just 
before  the  water  reaches  the  boiling  point  drop  the  tomatoes  into  it,  one 
layer  at  a  time  and  heat  through.  Do  not  allow  the  water  to  boil  at 
any  time.  When  thoroughly  heated  transfer  tomatoes  to  the  cans,  being 
careful  not  to  bruise  them.  Fill  the  cans  with  the  hot,  salted  water,  and 
screw  the  tops  on  quickly.  Turn  the  cans  over  in  a  deep  kettle  of  hot 
water  until  the  rubbers  are  heated  and  set,  which  hermetically  seals  the 
cans.  In  using  drain  from  the  salt  water,  and  serve  exactly  as  fresh 
tomatoes. 


CHAPTER  XIT. 

PirKI.ES      AXD      RELISHES. 

Amber  Pickles. — Choose  small  yellow  pear  tomatoes  when  just  turn- 
ing to  ripen.  Prick  each  tomato  with  a  needle  three  times  to  prevent 
bursting  in  cooking,  and  soak  half  an  hour  in  sa'ted  water.  Take  out 
and  put  in  jars,  after  which  make  a  syrup  of  one  pint  of  vinegar,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  C  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  put  to  boil  in 
a  porcelain  kettle.  Take  one-half  dozen  cloves,  same  of  whole  allspice, 
one  peppercorn,  a  piece  of  cinnamon,  a  splinter  of  mace  and  a  chip  of 
ginger  root ;  tie  all  in  a  cheesecloth  bag  and  boil  ten  minutes  in  the 
syrup.  Remove  spice  bag  and  put  the  tomatoes  in  the  kettle  until  they 
are  heated  through  (do  not  let  boil),  take  out  with  skimmer  and  put 
in  jars.  Boil  syrup  20  minutes  longer  and  pour  hot  over  tomatoes.  Next 
day  pour  off  syrup,  reheat  and  pour  over  tomatoes,  and  seal  in  jars. 

Apple  Pickle. — Eighteen  gccd  sharp  apples;  one-quarter  pound  best 
ginger ;  one  pound  Sultana  raisins ;  one  ounce  mustard  seed ;  six  shallots ; 
one-quarter  pound  sail;  V/2  pound  moist  sugar;  six  good-sized  onions; 
one-half  ounce  small  chilli  peppers;  one-half  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper. 
Three  pints  white  wine  vinegar.  Pare  and  quarter  apples  and  place  in  a 
double  boiler,  cover  tightly  to  keep  in  steam,  cook  till  quite  soft;  chop 
onions  and  shallots,  and  boil  in  vinegar  until  they  are  soft  also.  Then 
mix  ingredients  together,  and  place  in  an  iron  saucepan,  no  other  metal 
will  do.  Roil  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  stirring  faithfully,  as  it 
burns  very  quickly.  Put  down  in  small  pots  well  sealed.  This  pick^.e 
will  remain  good   for  years.     It   should   stand  two  months  before  using. 

Sweet  Apple  Pickle. — Three  pounds  of  sugar  to  seven  of  cored 
apples,  and  one  pint  of  vinegar.  Steam  the  apples  till  tender,  but  not 
too  much  ;  stick  a  clove  or  two  in  every  quarter.  Make  a  syrup  of  the 
sugar  and  vinegar  and  pour  while  hot  over  the  apples.  May  be  kept  in 
a  well-covered  jar  in  a  cool  place,  and  keep  well. 

String  Beans. — Cut  the  ends  off  the  tiny  pods  and  remove  the  little 
beginnings  of  "strings,"  pack  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  in  the  boiling  spiced 
and  sweetened  vinegar  just  as  if  making  sweet  pickled  pears  or  peaches. 
If  white  wine  vinegar  is  used  the  beans  will  retain  their  vivid  green 
color  and  thus  make  a  pretty  as  well  as  a  delicious  relish. 

Beets,  Canned. — Select  small,  dark-red  beets-,  about  the  size  of  a 
peach  or  smaller,  boil  in  the  usual  way.  being  careful  not  to  break  the 
skins  in  washing ;  do  not  cut  the  tops  too  close  and  be  sure  not  to  cut 
the  ends  off.     Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  but  not  too  soft.     Rub 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  15T 

the  skins  off  as  soon  as  they  are  cool  enough  to  handle,  also  cut  off 
top  and  tail  and  pack  in  fruit  jars;  set  aside  and  prepare  your  vinegar. 
It  will  not  be  necessary  to  heat  the  beets  over  again.  Put  as  much 
vinegar  over  the  fire  as  will  be  required  to  cover  the  beets ;  when  this 
comes  to  a  boil  add  a  little  sugar,  according  to  taste.  Let  the  vinegar 
boil  five  minutes  longer ;  pour  over  the  beets  piping  hot  and  seal.  A 
small  piece  of  horseradish  put  into  each  jar  will  keep  the  white  scum 
from  forming  on  the  top  of  the  vinegar. 

Beet  Relish. — Boil  two  medium-sized  beets  until  tender,  drain  and 
let  stand  in  cold  water  tliree  minutes,  then  skin,  slice  thin  and  cover  with 
strong  vinegar  for  one  hour.  Drain  off  the  vinegar  and  mash  the  beets 
thoroughly,  adding  three  tablespoons  of  grated  horseradish,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  a  dash  of  black  pepper. 

Beet  Sweet  Pickle. — Boil  till  tender,  then  skin,  and  cut  into  slices  or 
strips.  Put  in  glass  jars  rather  loosely,  so  that  each  piece  will  be  sur- 
rounded by  the  pickle.  To  two  quarts  of  vinegar  add  four  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  and,  when  these  are  in  the  kettle,  add  a  scant  lialf-teaspoon- 
ful  of  pulverized  alum.  Use  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  for  this  liquid,  and 
bring  the  contents  to  a  boil.  Skim  carefully,  and  then  add  to  it  a  small 
cheesecloth  bag  containing  a  teaspoonful  each  of  whole  peppercorns, 
allspice  and  cloves.  Boil  again,  and  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 
Fill  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  this  liquid,  and  set  aside  over  night.  The 
next  morning  drain  the  beets,  and  bring  the  syrup  again  to  a  hard  boil. 
Pour  this  again  into  the  jars  of  beets,  doing  so  while  it  is  scalding  hot, 
and  filling  each  jar  to  overflowing.     Seal  immediately. 

Blackberry  Pickle. — Put  a  pint  of  the  best  cider  vinegar  in  a  granite 
kettle,  together  with  four  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
of  ground  cloves,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon ;  when  it 
boils  add  three  quarts  of  dewberries  or  blackberries  that  have  been  care- 
fully cleaned ;  let  the  fruit  cock  10  minutes  in  the  syrup,  then  skim  the 
berries  into  a  gallon  jar;  pour  over  the  syrup  and  turn  a  plate  over  them 
to  keep  the  berries  below  the  surface ;  tie  a  double  fold  of  cloth  and 
thick  paper  over  the  jar  when  the  fruit  is  cold  and  the  pickle  will 
keep   perfectly. 

Cauliflower  Pickles. — Two  cauliflowers,  broken  up,  cne  pint  small 
onions,  three  medium-sized  red  peppers;  dissolve  half  a  pint  of  salt  in 
water  sufficient  to  cover  the  vegetables,  and  let  stand  over  night ;  drain 
in  the  morning ;  steam  the  vegetables  until  tender ;  heat  two  quarts  of 
vinegar  with  three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  (less  if  preferred) 
until  it  boils;   pour  over  vegetables;   bottle  and  seal. 

Pickled  Cherries. — Five  pounds  of  cherries,  stoned  or  not,  as  pre- 
ferred; one  quart  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of 
cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  of   cloves,   same  amount   of   mace,   all  ground. 


158-  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Boil  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  (tie  the  latter  in  a  bag)   together,  and 
pour  hot  over  the  cherries. 

Spiced  Cherries. — Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  together  four  pounds  of 
granulated  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one-half  ounce  each  of  cinnamon 
bark  and  whole  cloves.  Cook  in  this  till  the  skin  breaks  nine  pounds 
of   firm,    ripe   cherries. 

Chopped  Pickle. — One-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  two  stalks  of  celery, 
cne  green  pepper,  one-half  a  cabbage,  three  large  onions,  all  chopped,  to 
which  add  one-half  a  cupful  of  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
celery  seed,  one-half  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one-quarter  cupful  of  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  the  same  of  cinnamon,  one  saltspoonful 
each  of  cloves  and  allspice  and  one  quart  of  vinegar.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether and  seal   in   Mason  jars.     Will  keep   perfectly. 

Chow  Chow. — Wash  thoroughly  and  chop  without  paring  half  a 
peck  of  green  tomatoes ;  chop  fine  one  large  head  of  white  cabbage ;  pare 
and  chop  six  large  cucumbers ;  clean  thoroughly  and  cut  into  small  dice 
one  bunch  of  celery  and  finely  chop  one  large  white  onion.  Mix  all 
together,  add  half  a  cup  of  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Clean  100 
tiny  pickles  and  fifty  small  silver-skinned  onions;  put  into  separate  jars, 
cover  with  strong  salt  water  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  The  next 
morning  drain  the  first  mixture  thoroughly,  wash  off  the  pickles  and 
onions  and  wipe  dry.  Chop  fine  one  large  red  mango  pepper.  Put  all 
together  into  a  preserving  kettle,  add  two  quarts  of  the  best  cider 
vinegar  (dilute  somewhat  if  very  strong),  half  a  pound  of  granulated 
sugar,  half  an  ounce  each  of  turmeric  and  celery  seed,  one  ounce  of 
ground  mustard  seed.     Cook  30  minutes,  then  bottle  and  seal. 

English  Chow  Chow. — This  calls  for  two  medium-sized  heads  of 
firm  white  cabbage,  half  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  two  quarts  of  firm 
ripe  tomatoes,  half  a  dozen  green  peppers  and  two  red  peppers.  Chop 
all  together  as  fine  as  you  can,  and  pack  the  mixture  in  layers  of  salt. 
Put  it  in  a  coarse  bag  of  burlap  or  some  rough  material.  Lay  it  over  a 
rack  placed  upon  a  deep  keg  or  jar  and  put  a  heavy  press  upon  it.  Let  it 
drain  in  this  way  over  night,  or  for  24  hours.  A  pint  and  a  half  of 
sugar,  half  a  cup  of  grated  horseradish,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
black  pepper,  half  an  even  teaspoonful  of  ground  mustard,  an  ounce  of 
white  mustard  seed,  ^n  ounce  of  celery  seed,  a  tablespoonful  of  ground 
mace  and,  finally,  a  gill  of  Dutch  mustard  compose  the  seasonings  and 
must  be  added  to  the  mixture.  After  it  has  drained  sufficiently  moisten 
the  whole  with  enough  good  cider  vinegar  scantily  to  cover  it.  This 
chow  chow  requires  no  cooking  and  does  not  have  to  be  put  up  in  sealed 
jars.     A  stone  crock  is  all  sufficient,  if  kept  in  a  cold,  dry  place. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  159 

Virginia  Chow  Chow. — This  is  an  old  recipe.  One  peck  each  of 
green  and  ripe  tomatoes,  one  large,  firm  head  of  cabbage,  six  each  of 
green  and  ripe  peppers,  six  large  white  onions  and  two  bunches  of 
celery.  Chop  the  vegetables  fine,  sprinkle  over  them  a  cupful  of  coarse 
salt  and  let  them  soak  24  hours.  Drain  all  the  liquid  off,  cover  with 
best  cider  vinegar,  stir  in  one  pound  of  dark  brown  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  of  grated  horse-radish,  two  tablespoonfuls  of^  white  mustard 
seed,  one  tablespoouful  of  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves  and  the  same  amount  of  allspice.  Let  the  pickle  come  slowly 
to  the  boiling  point,  then  remove  to  the  back  of  the  range  and  let  it 
stand  for  one  hour.  Seal  up  in  Mason  jars,  and  it  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  a  week,  but  will  improve  with  age. 

Corn  and  Cabbage. — Cut  the  kernels  from  12  large  ears  of  corn,  add 
as  much  chopped  cabbage  as  there  is  cut  corn,  one  large  sweet  pepper 
freed  from  seeds  and  chopped,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  one-half  tablespoouful  of  ground  mustard  and  one 
quart  of  vinegar.     Bring  all  to  a  boil  and  then  can. 

Corn  Relish. — Chop  one  head  of  cabbage;  sprinkle  over  it  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Cut  the  kernels  from  12 
ears  of  corn ;  chop  three  peppers.  Mix  all  together.  Mix  with  them  a 
little  celery  seed ;  grated  horseradish,  or  both  if  liked,  though  neither 
are  needed  to  insure  the  keeping  qualities  of  the  relish.  Bring  two 
quarts  of  vinegar  to  boiling  heat;  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  mustard  that  has  been  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
vinegar.  Pour  this  hot  dressing  over  the  mixture;  stir  until  well 
mixed;  put  in  glass  jars,  or  small  jars. 

Corn  Salad. — Eighteen  large  ears  corn,  one  head  cabbage,  one-fourth 
pound  ground  mustard,  four  red  peppers  (chopped),  one-half  cup  salt, 
one  and  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  two  quarts  vinegar.  Corn  is  shaved  from 
cob,  cabbage  and  .peppers  chopped  and  all  ingredients  thoroughly  mixed. 
It  is  then  cooked  one  hour.  By  cooking  in  oven  it  need  not  be  stirred 
so  frequently  and  there  is  much  less  danger  of  burning.  It  is  canned 
and  sealed  while  hot. 

Pickled  Crab  Apple. — One  quart  of  vinegar,  three  pounds  brown 
sugar;  make  this  into  a  syrup.  Have  the  apples  in  a  gallon  jar  or  one 
of  size  that  will  set  in  an  iron  kettle.  Pour  .this  syrup  over  them,  have 
seasoning  tied  in  small  pieces  of  cheese  cloth  and  cook  with  the  rest. 
Boil  in  the  jar  until  a  fork  will  go  easily  into  the  apples.  The  juice 
need  not  cover  the  fruit  at  first,  the  apples  help  make  more.  This 
keeps  the  fruit  whole  and  is  very  satisfactory;  it  needs  a  weight  like  a 
small  plate  to  keep  apples  under  the  liquor. 

Cucumbers  in  Barrels. — Choose  small  cucumbers  free  from  spots. 
Put  a  layer  of  cucumbers  in  the  bottom  of  a  cask,  then  a  layer  of  coarse 


160  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

salt,  about  one-fourth  inch  thick,  then  another  layer  of  cucumbers,  more 
salt,  and  so  on  until  all  are  used.  Place  a  board  on  top  of  the  pickles, 
with  a  heavy  stone  to  keep  them  down.  Then  pour  in  about  a  quart  of 
water  to  moisten  the  salt,  which,  with  the  juice  exuding  from  the  cu- 
cumbers should  make  sufficient  brine  to  cover.  Continue  to  add  cu- 
cumbers, as  they  are  gathered,  in  layers  as  before;  a  few  cabbage  or 
horseradish  Icayes  on  top,  under  the  board,  will  prevent  molding.  When 
the  cask  is  full,  tuck  a  cloth  closely  around  the  edges,  put  board  and 
weight  on  top,  and  cover  closely,  and  the  cucumbers  will  keep  for  a 
year  or  two.  When  cucumbers  are  wanted  for  pickling,  remove  cloth, 
board  and  stone,  and  wash  them  well  in  warm  water;  wipe  all  scum 
from  sides  of  cask  with  a  clean  cloth,  take  out  cucumbers,  and  then 
cover  any  remaining  as  before.  Soak  cucumbers  for  three  days  in  cold 
water,  changing  water  each  day;  drain  and  wipe  carefully.  Half  fill  a 
large  porcelain-lined  preserving  kettle  with  good  cider  vinegar,  put  in 
as  many  cucumbers  as  the  vinegar  will  cover,  with  a  piece  of  alum  the 
size  of  a  hazelnut;  heat  to  boiling  point,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon 
so  that  they  do  not  soften  at  bottom  of  kettle,  and  then  drain,  throw- 
ing away  the  vinegar.  Cover  with  fresh  cold  vinegar,  spice  if  desired. 
A  little  chopped  horseradish  at  top  will  prevent  molding.  They  wnll 
be  ready  for  use  in  about  a  week.  A  great  many  cucumber  pickles  are 
sold  direct  from  the  brine. 

Brine  for  Cucumbers. — To  six  parts  of  water  use  one  part  salt,  and 
one  part  of  cider  vinegar.  Keep  the  pickles  well  under  the  brine,  and 
they  will  keep  longer  and  be  more  brittle  than  when  laid  down  in  salt, 
in  the  oM  way. 

Pickle  for  Cucumbers. — One-half  ounce  of  black  pepper,  one  and 
one-half  ounce  of  ginger,  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  cloves, 
one  ounce  of  mustard  seed,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  salt,  half  a  tea- 
spoon cayenne  pepper,  one  ounce  ground  mustard,  one  ounce  turmeric, 
and  six  quarts  of  vinegar.  The  spices  are  to  be  scalded  in  the  vinegar, 
except  the  mustard  and  turmeric  which  should  be  added  when  the 
vinegar  is  cold.  For  a  good  pickle  without  mustard :  Put  a  teacupful 
of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  alum  into  a  gallon  of  vinegar. 
Pick  small  cucumbers  and  pcair  a  weak  brine  over  them,  boiling  hot. 
Let  stand  over  night;  drain,  and  put  into  prepared  vinegar.  Add  cu- 
ciunbers  as  convenient,  and  when  as  many  have  been  put  into  the  vinegar 
as  it  will  cover  scald  them  up,  and  put  into  fresh  vinegar,  to  which  has 
been  added  a  little  red  pepper  and  horseradish. 

Canned  Cucumbers. — Cucumbers  canned  as  follows  will  keep  until 
the  following  June,  and  are  excellent  to  serve  with  meat  or  salad: 
Peel  and  slice  thin  medium-sized  cucumbers,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  a 
little  alum;  let  stand  two  hours;  drain  and  put  in  jars,  adding  vinegar 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  161 

enough  to  cover,  pepper  and  a  few  whole  mustard  seeds,  the  quantity  of 
pepper  to  be  governed  by  the  taste,  and  the  whole  pepper  to  be  used 
in  preference  to  the  ground.  On  top  of  the  jar,  when  ready  for  seal- 
ing,  add   a  dessertspoonful  of   olive  oil. 

Chopped  Cucumber  Relish. — This  is  simple  and  very  excellent.  Pare 
and  chop  fine  half  a  peck  of  medium-sized  cucumbers ;  chop  two  medium- 
sized  onions.  Salt  each  separately  over  night,  using  one-third  of  a  cup 
of  salt  in  all.  Drain  thoroughly  the  next  morning  and  mix.  If  the 
mixture  seems  too  salty  cover  with  cold  water  and  drain  a  second  time. 
Then  put  into  a  granite  kettle,  add  a  rounding  tablespoonful  each  of 
celery  seed  and  mustard  seed,  a  level  tablespoonful  of  ground  mustard, 
one-eighth  of  a  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  half  a  cup  of  brown 
sugar  and  a  pint  of  best  vinegar.     Boil  10  minutes,  then  bottle  and  seal, 

Dill  Pickles. — Make  a  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an  ^gg,  then  add 
half  as  much  more  water  as  you  have  brine.  Wash  cucumbers  in  cold 
water,  and  into  a  stone  jar  put  first  a  layer  of  cucumbers,  then  a  layer 
of  grape  leaves  and  a  layer  of  dill,  using  leaves  and  stems.  Continue 
in  this  way  until  the  jar  is  full.  Pour  the  brine  over  all  and  cover,  first 
with  a  cloth,  then  with  a  plate,  and  put  a  weight  on  top  of  the  plate. 
The  cloth  must  be  washed 'frequently  as  in  making  sauerkraut. 

Gherkins. — Wipe  one  quart  of  small  unripe  cucumbers.  Put  in  a 
stone  crock  and  add  one-quarter  cupful  of  salt  dissolved  in  one  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Let  stand  three  days.  Drain  cucumbers  from  brine, 
bring  the  brine  to  the  boiling  point,  pour  over  the  cucumbers,  and  again 
let  stand  three  days.  Repeat ;  drain,  wipe  cucumbers,  and  pour  over 
one  quart  of  boiling  water  in  which  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  alum  has 
been  dissolved.  Let  stand  six  hours,  then  drain  from  alum  water. 
Cook  cucumbers  10  minutes,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  one-fourth  of  the  fol- 
lowing mixture,  heated  to  the  boiling  point  and  boiled  10  minutes :  One 
quart  of  vinegar,  one  red  pepper,  one-half  stick  of  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoonful  allspice,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cloves.  Strain  the  re- 
maining liquor  over  the  pickles,  which  have  been  put  in  a  stone  jar. 
Bring  liquor  to  boiling  point  before  turning  it  over  the  pickles. 

Grated  Cucumber  Pickles. — Take  cucumbers  fully  grown,  pare  them, 
and  if  the  seeds  are  large  remove  them,  then  grate  and  drain  through 
a  colander,  and  to  the  pulp  left  add  as  much  vinegar  as  there  is  juice, 
and  can. 

Cucumber  Mustard  Pickles. — To  every  gallon  of  water  add  two  pints 
of  fine  salt,  heat  scalding  hot  and  pour  over  the  cucumbers.  Let  stand 
24  hours,  pour .  off  the  brine.  Heat  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  them. 
To  every  gallon  of  vinegar  add  one  tablespoonful  pulverized  alum,  pour 
over    the    cucumbers    and    cover   tight   to    steam.     Put   on    fresh    cabbage 


162  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

jtiaves  every  other  day  for  a  week;  heat  the  vinegar  again,  put  back  on 
I  acumbers  and  let  stand  two  or  three  days.  Then  take  fresh  vinegar; 
to  every  gallon  put  one  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper,  one  of  black  pepper, 
one  ounce  cinnamon  sticks,  two  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  one  small 
piece  ginger  root,  a  small  handful  of  horseradish  root,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cloves.  Boil  the  spices  in  a  bag,  then  pour  over  pickles.  These  will 
keep  crisp  and  nice  indefinitely  if  kept  under  the  vinegar,  or  may  be 
bottled   and  sealed   if   preferred. 

Oiled  Cucumber  Pickles. — Pare  and  slice  the  cucumbers  as  for  serving. 
For  50  medium-sized  ones  (these  are  best,  because  the  seeds  are  not 
large)  make  a  dressing  of  one  cupful  of  olive  oil,  half  a  cupful  of  white 
mustard  seed,  half  a  cupful  of  black  mustard  seed,  one  tablespoonful 
of  celery  seed  and  one  quart  of  vinegar.  No  cooking  is  required.  Sprin- 
kle the  sliced  cucumbers  with  salt,  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning  drain  them  thoroughly  and  cover  with  the  dressing  in  a 
stone  jar.  A  pint  of  onions  sliced  thin  may  be  added.  It  so,  the  onions 
should  be  arranged  in  alternate  layers  with  the  sliced  cucumbers  and 
salt.  Place  a  weight  over  the  top,  let  the  mixture  stand  over  night, 
and  drain  as  before. 

Quick  Pickles. — Gather  small  cucumbers,  wash,  and  rub  off  the 
prickles.  Pack  in  a  two-quart  glass  jar,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  on 
top,  shaking  it  down,  fill  with  cold  water,  put  the  cover  on,  and  set 
away  24  hours.  Then  pour  off  the  brine,  rinse  the  cucumbers,  and  fill 
the  jar  with  cold  vinegar.  Screw  the  top  on  tight,  and  store  in  cellar. 
If  the  vinegar  looks  white  in  a  few  months'  time  pour  a  little  off  the 
top,  and  fill  up  with  fresh.  These  pickles  are  very  good,  though  ex- 
tremely sour. 

Quick  Mustard  Pickles. — Put  a  gallon  of  vinegar  and  one  cupful, 
each,  of  salt  and  mustard  into  a  two  gallon  crock;  pick  small,  quickly 
grown  cucumbers;  rub  off  the  black  specks,  and  put  into  vinegar.  In 
a  few  days  the  pickles  are  ready  for  use.  Some  people  add  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  one  of  grated  horseradish  to  the  above  recipe,  but  it  is  a 
matter  of  taste,  as  neither  is  necessary  to  the  keeping  quality  of  the 
pickles.  Each  time  cucumbers  are  added  to  those  in  the  crock  all  should 
be  well  stirred  up  from  the  bottom.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  put  a  quart 
of  vinegar  with  its  proper  proportion  of  salt  and  mustard  into  a  two- 
quart  glass  can,  and  fill  in  cucumbers  for  immediate  use. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles.— Peel  and  cut  ripe  cucumbers  in  rings, 
sprinkle  salt  on  them  and  let  remain  over  night.  Drain  off,  and  cover 
with  hot  spiced  vinegar. 

Salting  Cucumbers  for  Winter. — Secure  a  small  keg  and  if  you  have 
cucumbers  in  your  garden  gather  every  other  day.  Place  a  layer  of 
coarse  salt— ice  cream  salt— in  the  bottom  of  the  keg,  add  a  cup  of  water 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  163 

and  cover  with  the  cucumbers  you  have  gathered  and  washed;  sprinkle 
over  salt  to  cover.  Repeat  this  as  you  gather  cucumbers  from  day  to 
day,  not,  however,  adding  any  more  water,  as  the  salt  should  make  suf- 
ficient brine.  If  there  should  not  be  brine  to  cover  them  you  may  add 
a  little,  cautiously.  There  should  always  be  a  layer  of  salt  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  keg  undissolved.  When  you  have  gathered  all  the  cucumbers 
you  wish  put  two  or  three  fresh  horseradish  leaves  on  the  top,  and  if 
you  wish  you  may  place  a  stone  on  the  top  to  keep  the  cucumbers  under 
the  brine.  When  desired  to  make  pickles  take  from  the  brine  as  many 
as  you  wish  into  a  stone  jar  and  cover  them  with  boiling  water;  let 
them  stand  24  hours;  drain  and  cover  again  with  boiling  water;  let 
stand  till  next  day.  If  you  desire  them  very  fresh  you  may  repeat  this 
the  third  time.  It  is  not  always  necessary.  Then  pour  off  the  water 
and  drain  well.  To  every  three  quarts  of  cucumbers  take  one  quart  of 
best  cider  vinegar.  To  each  gallon  of  vinegar  take  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  whole  cloves,  allspice,  peppercorns,  mace,  celery  seed  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  mustard  seed.  Tie  these  in  a  little  muslin  or  cheese- 
cloth bag.  (The  spices,  if  scattered  through  the  cucumbers,  turn  them 
dark.)  Add  to  vinegar  two  pieces  of  ginger-root  an  inch  long  and 
two  tiny  red  pepper  pods,  same  size.  Boil  vinegar  with  spices  for  one 
minute  and  pour  over  the  cucumbers.  If  not  enough  vinegar  to  cover, 
add  more  boiling  hot  to  fill  jar.  These  need  not  be  sealed.  Place  a 
horseradish  leaf  on  the  top  of  jar;  are  ready  for  use  in  a  few  days. 
Will  keep  indefinitely. 

Small  cucumber  pickles  are  prepared  as  follows:  Wash  and  wipe; 
place  in  jars,  and  cover  with  boiling  brine,  strong  enough  to  bear  an  ^gg. 
Let  stand  24  hours;  pour  off  the  brine,  wipe,  and  place  in  clean  jars. 
Cover  with  hot  vinegar,  spiced  in  the  proportion  of  one  onion,  12  whole 
cloves,  one  ounce  of  mustard  seed  and  three  blades  of  mace  to  100  cu- 
cumbers.   They  will  be  ready  to  use  in  two  weeks. 

Sour  Cucumber  Pickles.— Dissolve  one  pint  of  salt  in  one  gallon  of 
vinegar;  wash  the  cucumbers  and  pour  over  them  some  boiling  water, 
let  stand  five  or  ten  minutes,  then  pack  closely  in  cans,  pour  over  the 
salted  vinegar  and  seal.  The  friend  who  sends  this  recipe  says  the 
pickles  are  very  crisp  and  nice,  and  will  keep  as  long  as  you  will  let 
them. 

Spiced  Cucumber  Pickles.— Prepar  vinegar  for  pickles  as  follows: 
One  gallon  vinegar,  four  ounces  salt,  two  ounces  cloves,  two  ounces 
cinnamon,  one  ounce  allspice,  one  ounce  ginger  root,  one  ounce  yellow 
mustard  seed,  one  ounce  celery  seed,  small  piece  of  alum.  Scald  all 
together.  This  will  keep  for  years.  Wash  the  cucumbers  and  drain 
until  dry,  then  put  them  into  the  vinegar  at  any  time  after  it  is  cold. 


]fl4  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

If  the  vinegar  is  very  sharp  add  a  little  water  to  it  before  scalding  the 
ingredients  together,  or  the  pickles  will   shrivel. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles. — Let  the  cucumbers  stand  in  salt  water 
three  days.  Heat  the  brine  once  or  twice  and  pour  over  them.  Drain ; 
put  in  a  jar  and  pour  over  them  hot  vinegar  with  cloves  and  cinnamon 
in  a  bag;  two-thirds  cupful  sugar  to  quart  of  vinegar;  put  in  plenty 
of  horseradish  and  this  will  keep  sealed  or  open.  Put  in  a  little  alum 
to  make  them  brittle. 

Boiled  Sweet  Cucumber  Pickle. — Put  cucumbers  in  cold  weak  brine 
{V/i  cup  salt  to  one  gallon  Vvater)  one  day  and  night.  Take  out,  dry 
on  cloth.  To  one  gallon  vinegar  add  two  cups  sugar,  nearly  one  ounce 
mixed  spice.  Heat  these  all  boiling  hot.  Put  in  pickles  and  let  boil 
up  once.  Put  in  cans  immediately  and  pour  the  hot  vinegar  over  them. 
They  are  nice  and  sweet,  and  will  keep  a  long  time,  till  eaten.  These 
will  not  shrivel  if  you  follow  directions.  One  gallon  vinegar  will  cover 
two  gallons  cucumbers. 

Steamed  Sweet  Cucumber  Pickle. — Peel,  steam  as  soft  as  liked  and 
let  stand  over  night  in  a  weak  brine.  Next  morning  drain,  put  on 
vinegar  enough  to  cover,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Again  in  the  morn- 
ing drain  off  the  liquid  part.  Now  take  one  pint  of  fresh  vinegar,  three 
pounds  of  sugar  and  one  ciiuce  of  cassia  buds  (no  other  spices).  When 
this  comes  to  the  boiling  point  put  in  the  cucumbers,  let  scald  up  and  then 
pack  away  in   stone  jars. 

Tested  Cucumber  Pickles. — Wash  and  fill  two-quart  can  with  freshly 
picked  cucumbers  of  any  desired  size.  Add  to  them  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  dry  mustard;  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  salt,  and  fill  can 
with  good  cold  cider  vinegar.  It  doesn't  matter  whether  you  have  an 
airtight  top  or  not;  a  cork  with  cloth  tied  over,  or  put  in  crock.  If 
you  like  more  mustard  or  salt  it  will  do  no  harm. 

Pickles  Without  Cooking. — One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  salt,  one 
goodsized  root  of  horseradish,  one  tablespoonful  alum,  one  tablespoonful 
white  mustard  seed,  one  gallon  vinegar,  mixed  spice  to  taste.  Boil  the 
above  ingredients.  Then  allow  the  prepared  vinegar  to  become  cold 
before  putting  in  the  cucumbers.  Use  the  smallest  pickles,  as  the  large 
ones  do  not  always  become  thoroughly  pickled,  but  for  the  small  ones 
this  way  ot  preparing  them  is  excellent. 

Spiced  Currants. — IMake  a  syrup  of  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint 
of  vinegar  and  water,  half  ?nd  half,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon, 
one  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  six  pounds 
of  washed,  stemmed  currants  and  boil  half  an  hour.     Seal  in  jars. 

Pickled  Damsons. — This  is  a  sweet  pickle,  and  very  good  served 
with  mutton  or  venison.     Ingredients  required :    Three  pounds   damsons, 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  165 

one  quart  of  vinegar,  three  pounds  moist  sugar,  one-half  ounce  cinna- 
mon, three  blades  of  mace,  one-quarter  ounce  allspice.  The  plums 
should  be  ripe,  but  not  too  much  so ;  the  bloom  is  rubbed  off  with  a 
piece  of  flannel  or  a  clean  cloth,  and  they  are  pricked  a  little  with  a 
needle.  The  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  are  boiled  together  for  10  min- 
utes, then  strained  and  poured  over  the  fruit,  in  a  large  basin  Next 
day  the  vinegar  is  boiled  again,  and  again  poured  over  the  damsons, 
and  on  the  third  day  the  damsons  themselves  are  simmered  in  the 
vinegar  for  exactly  five  minutes.  They  should  be  tied  down  while  hot. 
A  quicker  method  of  pickling  either  plums  or  damsons  is  the  following : 
Remove  the  stalks  from  the  fruit ;  wipe  it  and  arrange  in  layers  in  a 
jar  with  good  brown  sugar  sprinkled  between.  Fill  up  the  jars  with 
cold  vinegar,  tie  them  down  and  bake  in  rather  a  slow  oven  till  the 
plums   are  tender^   then  tie   down   for   use. 

French  Mustard. — Take  six  ounces  of  salt,  four  ounces  of  scraped 
horseradish,  one  clove  of  garlic,  and  two  quarts  of  boiling  vinegar; 
steep  these  together  in  a  covered  vessel  for  six  hours,  then  strain  and 
add  mustard  to  the  spiced  vinegar  sufficient  to  make  it  the  proper  con- 
sistency. These  proportions  are  large ;  they  can  be  reduced  if  necessary, 
but  the  mustard  will  keep  a  long  time,  as  it  is  made  with  boiling  vinegar. 

Gillespie  Relish. — Ore  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  two  cupfuls  celery,  six 
large  onions,  seven  red  peppers.  Run  the  peeled  tomatoes  and  the 
onions  through  a  meat  grinder.  Chop  the  celery  and  the  peppers  fine. 
Add  two  ounces  of  mustard  seed  and  ground  cinnamon,  one-half  cupful 
of  salt,  three  pints  cider  vin.^gar  and  two  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar. 
Mix  and  seal.  Do  not  cook.  It  is  claimed  that  this  will  keep  per- 
fectly for  five  years,  and  it  is  very  appetizing  and  universally  liked. 

Hebrew  Pickle. — For  a  pint  of  pickles  grate  two  roots  of  horse- 
radish. Mix  with  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  mustard  seed,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  turmeric.  Cover  the  ingredients  with  scalding  hot  vinegar.  Seal  in 
glass  jars.     Let  stand  one  week  before  using. 

India  Relish. — This  recipe  calls  for  gherkins,  large  cucumbers,  small 
onions,  cabbage  and  red  peppers.  Green  nasturtium  seeds  may  be  added. 
Cut  the  vegetables  all  into  small  pieces  and  put  the  mixture,  layer  by 
layer,  into  a  stone  jar,  separating  the  layers  with  salt.  Sprinkle  the  top 
well  with  salt,  cover  with  a  plate  weighted  with  a  flatiron,  stone  or 
brick,  and  let  the  jar  and  contents  stand  for  three  days.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  drain  off  the  liquid  and  rinse  the  vegetables  thoroughly  in 
cold  water.  Then  cover  with  fresh  cold  water  and  leave  for  36  hours. 
In  the  meantime  scald  three-quarters  of  a  gallon  of  cider  vinegar  with 
half  a  tablespoonful  each  of  celery  seed,  paprika,  cloves,  mace,  ground 
mustard    and    horseradish    and    two    tablespoonfuls    of    curry.      Add    one 


166  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

and  three-quarters  cupful  of  brown  sugar.  Turn  the  vinegar  over  the 
drained  vegetables  and  cook  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Put  the  relish 
into  a  stone  jar  and  leave  it  for  two  or  three  days.  Then  drain  off  the 
vinegar,  scald  it  and  pour  it  while  hot  over  the  vegetables.  Let  it 
stand  until  the  next  day,  then  fill  into  small  jars,  cover  closely  and 
keep  in  a  cool  dark  place. 

India  Relish  No.  2. — This  comes  from  the  South.  Two  pounds  of 
citron  melon  or  Avatermelon  rind,  two  heads  of  cabbage,  white  and  firm; 
six  white  onions,  one  large  cupful  of  sugar,  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
each  of  ground  cinnamon,  mace,  paprika  (Hungarian  sweet  pepper), 
mustard  and  powdered  alum,  one  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  one 
quart  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed,  one  tablespoonful 
of  salt.  Prepare  the  melon  by  cutting  off  the  green  rind  and  scraping 
away  the  softer  inner  coating,  leaving  less  than  an  inch  firm  and  white. 
Cut  into  thin  strips,  put  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  alum  over  it.  Cover 
closely  and  cook  gently  for  three  hours.  Drain  well  and  cover  with 
ice  water.  Change  the  water  twice  in  four  hours,  and  then  wipe  the 
melon  dry.  Cut  the  cabbage  into  quarters,  cook  in  boiling  water  slightly 
salted  for  fifteen  minutes.  Let  it  get  perfectly  cold.  Parboil  the 
onions,  and  allow  them  also  to  get  cold  and  stiff.  Now  chop  cabbage, 
melons  and  onions  separately  and  very  fine.  Mix  all  together  in  a  large 
crock  and  pour  over  them  the  scalding  hot  vinegar,  in  which  have  been 
boiled  for  one  minute  the  spices,  sugar  and  celery  seed.  Leave  the 
crock  covered  24  hours.  Strain  off  the  vinegar,  bring  it  to  a  boil  and 
pour  again  over  the  mixture  in  the  crock.  Repeat  this  for  three  days 
in  succession,  after  which  pack  in  small  jars,  cover  closely  and  set  away 
to  ripen.     It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  six  weeks,  but  improves  by  keeping. 

Pickled  Mangoes. — Young  musk,  or  nutmeg  melons  are  needed  for 
the  purpose.  Through  a  slit  in  the  side  of  the  melon  extract  all  the 
seeds  with  the  fingers  without  breaking  the  fruit.  In  case  the  patience 
gives  out,  a  plug  can  be  cut  out,  saved  and  replaced,  but  it  is  better  to 
make  only  the  slit.  Keep  the  melons  in  strong  brine  for  three  days, 
then  drain  them  and  let  them  remain  in  pure  water  for  24  hours.  Heat 
slowly  in  vinegar,  in  which  alum  has  been  dissolved,  until  the  melons  are 
green.  For  a  gallon  of  vinegar  a  piece  of  alui^i  half  the  size  of  a 
hickorynut  will  be  wanted.  The  following  is  the  recipe  for  the  stuf- 
fing, given  in  an  old  cook  book:  One  handful  of  horseradish  scraped; 
two  handfuls  of  English  mustard  seed,  twq  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped 
garlic,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  nutmeg  and  mace,  one  dozen  whole 
peppercorns,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
ground  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  celery 
seed    and    one    tablespoonful    of    olive    oil.    Fill    the    greened    mangoes 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  167 

through  the  slit  with  the  mixture.  Sew  up  the  slit,  or  tie  the  melon 
securely  so  that  it  will  not  open.  Pack  the  mangoes  in  a  big  stone  jar 
and  pour  scalding  vinegar  over  them.  After  two  days,  drain  off  the 
vinegar,  scald  and  return  it  to  the  jar,  and  repeat  twice  at  intervals 
of  two  days.  The  mangoes  will  be  ready  for  use  in  four  or  five 
months. 

Minced  Pickle. — Chop  half  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  cover  them  with 
two-thirds  "of  a  cupful  of  salt  and  let  them  stand  for  a  day  and  a 
night.  Then  scald  half  a  gallon  of  vinegar  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
pepper,  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  each  of  ground  mustard,  allspice, 
cinnamon  and  cloves  and  half  a  cupful  of  white  mustard  seed.  Add  to 
the  tomatoes  two  onions  chopped  fine  and  four  large  green  peppers  de- 
nuded of  seeds  and  cut  into  rings.  Turn  the  vinegar  over  the  mixture 
and  boil  steadily  20  minutes ;   then  bottle. 

Mixed  Pickle. — Three  hundred  small  cucumbers,  two  heads  of  cauli- 
flower, one  of  cabbage,  six  green  peppers  with  seeds  taken  out,  three 
quarts  small  onions  and  two  quarts  small  beans.  Cut  the  cabbage  and 
the  cauliflower  in  small  pieces,  and  put  all  in  a  brine  strong  enough  to 
bear  up  an  tgg.  Let  them  remain  24  hours,  then  rinse  and  drain  thor- 
oughly. Place  on  the  stove  two  gallons  of  vinegar,  add  a  large  root 
of  horseradish,  grated,  two  ounces  each  of  mustard  seed  and  black  pep- 
per, one  teaspoon  cayenne,  and  one  ounce  of  turmeric.  Let  it  boil  and 
pour  over  pickles  in  a  jar.  When  cold  mix  in  one  cupful  of  mustard 
wet  with  cold  vinegar. 

Mixed  Pickle  No.  2. — One-half  medium-sized  head  of  cabbage,  four 
celery  roots,  four  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish,  six  large  green 
tomatoes,  one  large  or  two  small  Spanish  onions,  1^  quart  of  vinegar, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum.  Chop  all  the  vegetables  and 
mix  them  together.  Put  a  layer  about  two  inches  thick  in  the  bottom 
of  a  jar,  sprinkle  it  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  then  another  layer  of 
vegetables  and  salt,  and  so  on  until  all  is  used.  Allow  it  to  stand  24 
hours,  then  drain,  and  press  out  all  the  liquor;  cover  with  boiling 
water,  allow  it  to  stand  10  minutes,  then  press  with  the  hands  until 
entirely  dry.  Add  to  one  quart  of  vinegar  ^4  teaspoonful  of  alum,  and 
stir  until  dissolved.  Put  a  layer  of  the  pickles  two  inches  thick  in  the 
bottom  of  a  jar,  sprinkle  with  mustard  seed,  black  pepper,  and  the 
grated  horseradish;  then  another  layer  of  pickle,  and  so  on  until  used. 
Pour  the  vinegar  over,  let  it  stand  two  days,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Mock  Olives. — Two  quarts  of  green  plums,  1^  tablespoonful  mus- 
tard seed,  25^  tablespoonfuls  salt,  two  quarts  vinegar.  Place  the  plums 
in  a  stone  jar  with  mustard  seed  and  salt;  turn  the  vinegar  into  a  pre- 
serving  kettle,   bring   to   a   boil    and   pour   over   plums.    Cover   closely. 


168  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Next  day  drain  off  the  vinegar,  bring  again  to  a  boil  and  pour  over 
plums  while  hot.  If  plums  arc  large  repeat  the  third  morning.  When 
cold  place  all  in  olive  bottles  and  cork  tightly.  They  will  taste  like 
real  olives. 

Muskmelon  Pickles. — Pare  the  rind  off  ripe,  spicy,  green  melons,  re- 
move the  seeds  and  cut  into  thick  slices.  Weigh  as  for  peaches,  seven 
pounds  of  fruit  to  three  and-  one-quarter  pounds  of  sugar,  and  put  the 
sugar  to  cook  with  water  enough  to  dissolve  it.  Boil  and  skim  it  until 
clear,  then  pour  it  over  the  melon  in  a  crock.  Repeat  this  for  three 
mornings,  but  on  the  third  morning  add  a  cupful  of  vinegar  to  each 
three  pints  of  syrup  and  boil  it  up  with  a  cupful  of  spices  in  a  bag. 
Pour   it   over   the   melon   in   jars    and   seal    at   once. 

Mustard  Pickles.— Two  quarts  small  cucumbers,  one  quart  small 
onions,  one  quart  green  tomatoes,  one  large  cauliflower,  six  green  pep- 
pers, quartered.  Lay  in  weak  brine  twenty-four  hours,  then  scald  in 
same  water  and  drain.  .Paste — six  tablespoonfuls  English  mustard,  one 
tablespoonful  tumeric,  one  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  small  cup 
of  flour,  two  quarts  best  cider  vinegar.  IMix  dry  ingredients  thor- 
oughly, add  vinegar,  boil  a  few  minutes,  pour  over  pickles  and  bottle. 

Mustard  Pickles  Xc.  2. — This  differs  from  most  recipes  for  this 
pickle  in  being  made  without  green  tomato.  Put  one-half  peck  small 
encumbers,  two  quarts  silver  skinned  onions,  and  two  heads  of  picked 
cauliflower  to  soak  in  water  to  cover  and  a  cupful  of  salt  over  night.  In 
the  morning  drain ;  mix  one  dessertspoonful  of  turmeric  powder  with 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  the  best  mustard;  wet  with  sufficient 
vinegar  to  mix  without  lumps.  Put  three  quarts  of  vinegar  over  the 
fire,  add  five  cents'  worth  of  mixed  pickling  spices,  one-half  ounce 
celery  seed,  one-half  ounce  v/hite  mustard  seed,  one  teaspoonful  each 
of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  carefully  stir  in 
the  mustard  and  turmeric  paste  and  let  boil  up  well;  then  add  the 
mixed  pickles,  two  red  peppers  chopped  with  the  seeds  of  same,  and 
stir  all  together.     After  it  begins  to  bubble  let  boil  well  for  five  minutes. 

Mustard  Pickles  No.  3. — Equal  quantities  of  cucumbers,  celery,  cauli- 
flower and  small  button  onions.  Cut  all  in  small  pieces  except  the 
onions.  Cover  with  strongly-salted  water  for  24  hours ;  drain,  put  into 
a  jar,  and  pour  on  hot  vinegar  (not  too  strong)  sufficient  to  cover.  Let 
the  pickles  stand  three  days,  and  then  drain.  To  five  quarts  of  the 
pickle  use  thres  quarts  of  cider  vinegar,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Heat  to  boiling,  then  stirring  constantly  (for 
fear  of  burning)  add  one  cupful  of  flour,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  ground 
mustard  and  one-half  ounce  of  turmeric  powder  wetted  in  cold  vinegar. 
Stir  till  smooth,  and  pour  over  the  pickle  while  hot;  stir  well.  When 
cold  cover  close. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  m 

Sliced  Mustard  Pickles. — One  dozen  large  cucumbers  sliced,  two 
dozen  very  small  cucumbers,  one  quart  of  small  onions,  one  large  cauli- 
flower, steamed  slightly.  Soak  all  these  ingredients  in  cold  brine  over 
night.  Paste  for  the  pickles  is  made  as  follows:  One-half  pound  of 
ground  yellow  mustard,  one  tcacupful  of  flour,  one  teacupful  of  sugar, 
one-half  ounce  of  turmeric.  Rub  the  above  ingredients  together  with  a 
little  vinegar  until  smooth.  Then  add  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  letting 
it  scald  until  a  thick  paste.  Next  add  one-half  ounce  of  celery  seed, 
and  pour  the  hot  paste  over  the  pickles,  put  in  cans  and  seal. 

Nasturtium  Pods  Pickled. — Put  the  pods  to  soak  in  weak  brine 
for  two  days,  then  in  fresh  water  one  day;  drain,  put  in  a  jar,  and 
cover  with  boiling  vinegar.  The  vinegar  m.ay  be  spiced  if  desired,  but 
if  the  pods  are  to  be  used  in  sauce  they  are  better  unspiced. 

Pickled  Onions. — First  pour  boiling  water  over  the  onions  to  loosen 
the  skins.  As  soon  as  cool  enough  to  handle  begin  to  peel,  dropping 
the  onions  as  peeled  into  salt  water  (not  brine)  to  prevent  their  being 
discolored.  Make  a  strong  brine,  heat  to  the  boiling  point,  and  pour 
ever  the  onions.  Leave  them  in  the  brine  48  hours,  then  drain.  Spice 
vinegar  according  to  taste,  I'Cat  1o  boiling  point,  and  pour  over  the 
onions.  Set  away  for  two  or  three  days,  drain  off  the  vinegar,  heat  it 
again,  and  pour  it  over  the  onions  in  the  jars  in  which  they  are  to  be 
stored;    tie   up   the    jars    and    set    away. 

Pickled  Peaches. — For  pickling  select  medium-sized  peaches,  ripe  and 
firm.  Rub  off  the  down  with  a  piece  of  flannel.  To  eight  pounds  of 
fruit  use  four  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  two 
ounces  of  stick  cinnamon.  Boii  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  cinnamon  for  five 
minutes.  Then  put  in  the  peaches  carefully,  a  few  at  a  time.  If  one 
likes  cloves,  two  or  three  may  be  stuck  in  each  peach.  When  the 
peaches  arc  done  enough  to  be  easily  pricked  with  a  fork,  take  them  out 
and  put  in  the  jar.  When  the  peaches  are  all  cooked  boil  the  syrup 
till   a  little  thick,  pour  over  peaches  and  seal   cans  or  jars. 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches. — Cut  the  peaches  in  two,  remove  the  stones, 
and  close  the  openings  with  halves  together,  pack  in  jars,  and  cover  with 
the  following  liquid:  To  two  pounds  of  sugar  add  one  pint  of  vinegar 
(best  cider  vinegar  alone  should  be  used  for  all  pickles),  tie  in  a  bag 
a  teaspoonful  of  whole  cloves,  one-half  teaspoonful  cassia  buds,  three 
sticks  of  cinnamon  (broken)  and  some  tiny  bits  of  ginger,  allspice  and 
nutmeg  (about  a  teaspoonful  in  all).  Scald  three  times  and  seal  the 
jars.    Keep  in  dark,  dry  place;  when  ready  to  use  remove  the  spice. 

Sweet  Pickled  Pears. — Select  ripe  but  firm  fruit,  peel  and  measure 
out  for  every  seven  pounds  of  fruit  four  of  white  sugar,  one  pint  of  soft 
vinegar   and   half   a   tablespoonful    each    of   whole    cloves,    whole    allspice 


170  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

and  cinnamon  sticks.  Put  the  pears  in  a  kettle  and  over  each  layer 
sprinkle  sugar  until  both  are  exhausted.  Heat  slowly  until  the  boiling 
point  is  reached,  then  add  the  vinegar  and  spice  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  spread  upon  platters 
to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup  till  thick.  Heat  the  jars,  pack  in  the  pears 
and   pour   the   syrup    over   boiling   hot;    seal. 

Pepper  Hash. — Wash  and  dry  five  large  green  peppers  and  one  red 
one,  remove  seeds  and  chop  shells  quite  fine;  chop  fine  a  good-sized 
cabbage,  and  place  with  the  peppers  in  a  bowl,  mixing  well.  Add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  brown  mustard  seed,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and 
enough  good  cider  vinegar  to  cover  the  whole.  Stir  well  together  and 
put  into  pickle  bottles.  Ready  for  use  in  two  days,  or  will  keep  for 
Winter  use. 

Pepper  Mangoes. — Two  dozen  full-grown  pods  of  red  pepper.  Cut 
out  the  stems  with  a  sharp  knife  and  scrape  out  the  seeds.  Lay  the  pods 
in  brine  and  let  soak  for  24  hours.  Drain.  Make  a  dressing  of  finely 
chopped  cabbage,  enough  to  fill  the  peppers,  seasoned  with  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  salt  and  pulverized  mustard  seed,  one  teaspoonful  of 
grated  horseradish,  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  made  mustard.  When  well  mixed  stuff  the  peppers,  sew  the 
stems  on  with  a  coarse  thread,  pack  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  with  strong 
vinegar   and   let   stand   two   weeks   before   using. 

Pickled  Peppers. — Put  two  dozen  green  peppers  in  a  bowl  and  pour 
over  them  a  very  strong  brine.  Put  a  weight  over  them  to  keep  them 
under  the  water  and  let  them  lie  for  two  days.  Drain  them,  make  a 
small  incision  in  the  side  of  each  to  let  out  the  water,  wipe  them  with 
a  soft  cloth  and  put  them  in  a  stone  jar,  with  one-half  ounce  of  whole 
allspice,  one-half  ounce  of  whole  cloves  and  a  small  lump  of  alum.  Pour 
cold  vinegar  over  them  and  tie  a  bladder  securely  over  the  jar.  Pickled 
in  this  way  the  peppers  should  preserve  their  color. 

Pepper  Relish. — Remove  the  seeds  from  six  large  green  peppers  and 
one  red  bell  pepper,  and  chop  the  peppers  fine.  Mix  the  peppers  with 
a  finely  minced  head  of  cabbage.  Turn  in  a  little  less  than  a  quarter 
of  a  cupful  of  salt,  a  full  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mus- 
tard seed  and  nice  cider  vinegar  enough  to  cover  the  mixture.  Stir 
thoroughly  and  bottle. 

Piccalilli. — Two  pecks  of  green  tomatoes,  two  heads  of  white  cab- 
bage, 12  large  onions,  four  green  peppers,  two  red  peppers,  one  good 
root  of  horseradish  (grated),  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  allspice.  Chop  all  fine,  stir  in  two  cups  of  salt  and  let  stand 
all  night,  then  drain;  cover  with  cold  vinegar,  boil  10  minutes  and  drain 
again.  Cover  with  vinegar,  add  the  spices  and  three  pounds  of  brown 
sugar.    Boil  a  few  minutes  and  put  away  in  jars. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  171 

Canned  Pimentos.— These  are  simply  red  peppers,  the  long,  tapering, 
sharp-pointed  sweet  variety.  They  repay  one  for  the  trouble,  as  they 
retail  at  15  cents  a  can,  and  in  glass  jars  at  35  cents  per  quart.  Select 
ripe  red  ones,  neither  dry  nor  woody.  Cut  off  stem  end  and  extract  the 
seeds.  Drop  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  brine  that  will  float  an  tgg.  Let 
stand  three  days.  Wash  in  several  waters,  cover  with  clear  water  one 
day,  then  drain  well.  Place  peppers  in  cans,  fill  to  overflowing  with 
boiling  water,  add  a  level  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  each  quart  of  water; 
place  in  a  boiler  on  two-inch  layer  of  straw,  weight  cans  to  prevent 
tipping,  pour  in  boiling  water  to  cover  two-thirds  of  the  can,  screw 
lids  on  loosely  and  cover  the  boiler.  When  the  water  boils  simmer  10 
minutes,  remove  and  seal.  They  are  used  in  salads,  as  a  relish  with 
cold  meats  or  are  stuffed  with  rice,  macaroni  or  bread  crumbs. 

Pumpkin  Pickle. — This  is  very  good  when  there  is  a  scarcity  of 
apples.  Pare  the  pumpkins  carefully,  leaving  out  all  soft  or  stringy 
parts,  then  cut  into  pieces  about  one  or  two  inches  square.  Soak  over 
night  in  vinegar,  salt  and  water,  just  enough  vinegar  and  salt  to  make 
a  good  flavor.  The  next  day  make  a  pickle  as  you  would  for  any  nice 
pickle  and  let  them  simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  a  long  time 
without  stirring.  Our  rule  for  pickle  is  seven  pounds  fruit,  four  pounds 
sugar  and  one  pint  of  vinegar.  We  usually  flavor  the  pumpkin  pickle 
with  either  sliced  lemon  or  ginger  root. 

Quince  Sweet  Pickles. — Scrub  with  a  small  vegetable  brush  to  re- 
move the  down,  wipe  dry  and  cut  out  any  spots  or  decayed  portions. 
Slice,  without  paring,  into  rounds  a  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  leaving  in 
both  core  and  seeds,  unless  imperfect,  then  weigh.  Put  the  fruit,  a 
thin  layer  at  a  time,  in  a  steamer  or  colander  over  boiling  water,  cover 
closely  and  steam  until  it  is  perfectly  tender,  then  place  in  a  stone 
jar.  Make  the  syrup  of  four  pounds  of  sugar,  a  pint  of  vinegar  of 
medium  strength,  a  pint  of  the  water  over  which  the  fruit  was  steamed. 
an  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  allspice  berries 
and  a  level  tablespoonful  of  whole  cloves  to  seven  pounds  of  the  fruit. 
Pour  over  the  fruit,  cover  securely  and  stand  in  a  cool  place  over 
night.  The  next  morning  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  for  10  minutes  with 
the  spice  bag,  skim  and  pour  again  boiling  hot  over  the  fruit.  Continue 
this  process  for  three  successive  mornings.  The  last  morning  add  the 
fruit  to  the  syrup  and  spices  and  boil  gently  until  heated  through,  then 
skim  out  and  put  into  the  crock.  Continue  to  boil  the  syrup  until  it  is 
as  thick  as  molasses.  If,  after  the  second  boiling,  it  does  not  seem 
spiced  sufficiently,  add  more  spices  tied  in  a  fresh  bag.  When  the  syrup 
is  done,  reheat  the  quinces  in  it,  then  fill  into  self-sealing  glass  jars  as 
in  canning. 

Red  Cabbage  Pickle.— Cut  a  red  cabbage  of  good  size  into  six  pieces, 


172  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  leave  it  for  a  day  and  a  night.  Then  drain  off 
the  liquid,  rinse  it  with  cold  water  and  let  it  soak  in  fresh  cold  water. 
Scald  half  a  gallon  of  vinegar  with  a  dozen  w^hole  cloves  and  white  pep- 
pers and  a  few  blades  of  mace  broken  fine.  Turn  in  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar  and  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed.  Cook  slowdy  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Have  the  cabbage,  drained  and  dried,  packed  into 
a  stone  jar.  Turn  the  hot  vinegar  over  it  and  put  it  in  a  cool  place. 
The  cabbage  will  be  at  its  best  in  two  months. 

Spanish  Sauce. — One  peck  green  tomatoes,  one  quart  onions,  six 
large  sweet  peppers,  four  quarts  ripe  tomatoes,  two  heads  celery  chopped 
fine,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  gallon  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful 
cayenne  pepper,  three  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  each 
of  allspice,  mace  and  cloves.  Chop  green  tomatoes,  onions  and  seeded 
peppers,  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  strain  through 
a  cloth  until  perfectly  dry.  Then  mix  all  the  ingredients  and  boil  until 
tender,  . 

Tomato  Conserve. — Cut  five  large  sound  tomatoes  into  pieces  and 
cook  them  until  they  are  tender,  with  two  onions  in  which  three  or 
four  cloves  have  been  stuck,  tw^o  bay  leaves  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Then  turn  the  fruit  on  to  a  fine  sieve  placed  over  a  bowl  and 
drain  off  the  juice.  Boil  the  juice  until  it  has  been  half  reduced.  Next 
remove  the  onions  and  bay  leaves  from  the  tomatoes  left  on  the  sieve 
and  press  the  pulp  through  the  fine  meshes.  Add  to  it  the  juice,  put 
the  mixture  into  wide  mouthed  bottles ;  cover  them  loosely  and  stand 
them  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water  (it  should  be  about  their  own  tem- 
perature). Bring  the  water  to  a  boil  and  boil  for  half  an  hour.  Leave 
the  bottles  in  the  kettle  until  they  are  cool,  then  tighten  their  covers 
and  set  them  in  the  dark. 

Egg  Tomatoes  in  Sweet  Pickle. — Pour  scalding  water  over  seven 
pounds  of  the  egg  tomatoes,  let  them  stand  for  a  moment,  then  remove 
the  skin.  Cover  them  with  vinegar  much  diluted  with  water  and  let 
them  stand  12  hours.  Put  one-half  cupful  of  weak  vinegar  in  the  pre- 
serving kettle  and  add  part  of  the  tomatoes,  then  some  sugar  and  any 
whole  spices,  such  as  ginger,  allspice,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace,  using 
these  or  even  more  varieties  according  to  taste.  Add  more  of  the  to- 
matoes, more  sugar  and  more  spices,  alternating  the  layers  thus  until 
all  the  tom.atoes  and  five  pounds  of  sugar  have  been  used.  Cook  very 
gently,  stirring  just  enough  to  prevent  scorching  without  breaking  the 
tomatoes.  When  these  are  quite  clear  and  transparent,  remove  them 
carefully  and  boil  down  the  syrup.  When  the  syrup  is  thick  strain  it 
and  add  the  tomatoes.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  into  pint  jars  to  be  sealed 
at   once. 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  173 

French  Sweet  Pickle. — One  peck  green  tomatoes  chopped  and  six 
large  onions  sliced.  Salt  them  and  let  stand  over  night.  Then  drain  off 
the  watery  part  and  cover  v/ith  vinegar,  add  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  let  the  whole  boil  for  15  minutes. 
Take  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two  ounces  of  cinnamon,  one  ounce 
of  ground  cloves  and  one-half  pound  of  white  mustard  seed  and  mix 
dry.  Put  this  in  the  kettle  v/ith  three  quarts  of  vinegar.  Once  more 
drain  the  tomato  of  its  liquid  part,  add  it  to  the  spice  and  vinegar  and 
cook  for  an  hour. 

Green  Tomato  Chili  Sauce. — Slice  the  green  tomatoes  and  salt  down 
as  you  do  e:gg  plant,  put  a  weight  on  them  and  let  stand  until  morn- 
ing, then  rinse  in  cold  water  to  take  out  the  salt  and  wash  out  the  seeds 
and  bitter  juice  of  the  green  tomato.  For  12  tomatoes  take  four  sweet 
green  peppers,  half  dozen  chili  peppers,  one  large  onion,  one  cupful 
vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pep- 
per, two  of  ground  allspice,  half  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  of  cinnamon, 
one  of  cloves.  Chop  the  tomatoes  fme,  boil  20  minutes,  strain  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Chop  the  peppers  and  onions  very  fine,  first  taking  out 
the  seeds  of  the  peppers.  Boil  all  together  for  10  minutes;  add  spices, 
then  bottle  and  seal. 

Green  Tomato  Chow  Chow. — Chop  fine  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes, 
three  onions,  six  green  peppers ;  sprinkle  them  lightly  with  salt,  let  stand 
an  hour,  then  scald  in  the  juices.  Put  three  quarts  of  vinegar  in  a 
porcelain-lined  kettle  with  one  pint  of  sugar  and  a  few  pieces  of  horse- 
radish root.  Boil  for  five  minutes,  add  the  tomatoes  and  boil  five 
minutes  longer,  put  into  stone  jars,  cover  and  set  in  cool,  dry  place. 
Whole  cloves,  mace  and  stick  cinnamon  may  be  added  to  this  if  you  want 
a  spiced  pickle. 

Easy  Green  Tomato  Pickle. — Slice  the  tomatoes  and  allow  them  to 
stand  in  weak  salt  brine  over  night.  In  the  morning  rinse  and  pack 
directly  in  fruit  jars.  Place  the  jars  uncovered  in  the  steamer  and  steam 
for  about  two  hours.  Plave  ready  at  the  end  of  that  time  a  sweet-spiced 
vinegar  made  exactly  as  you  do  for  pickling  peaches,  and  after  draining 
all  the  juice  that  cooks  from  the  sliced  tomatoes,  fill  the  cans  brim-full 
with  it  and  seal  as  in  canning  anything. 

Green  Tomato  Sweet  Pickle. — Wash  the  tomatoes  and  let  drain,  then 
slice  into  a  large  earthen  dish,  sprinkling  salt  between  the  layers.  Let 
stand  till  next  day.  Pour  off  the  brine  and  juice,  rinse  off  with  clear 
water,  let  the  fruit  drain,  then  weigh  if  you  like  to  follow  the  exact 
rule.  To  a  syrup  made  of  brown  sugar  and  a  little  water  add  ginger 
root,  cloves  and  cinnamon  bark.  Also  tie  up  two  or  three  little  bags  of 
mixed,  ground  spices  to  cook  with  the  rest.  Add  the  tomato  and  a 
handful    of    nasturtium    seeds,    and    cook    till    the    tomato    seems    tender. 


174  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

The  nasturtium  seeds  should  be  not  more  than  half  grown,  green,  and 
if  in  clusters,  so  much  the  better.  Skim  out  the  tomato  into  a  stone 
jar,  add  a  liberal  quantity  of  vinegar  to  the  juice  left  in  the  kettle,  and 
when  it  boils  up  pour  over  the  contents  of  the  jar. 

Green  Tomato  Mangoes. — Select  smooth  tomatoes  of  good  shape 
and  showing  no  signs  of  ripening.  Cut  across  one-fourth  of  the  length 
below  the  stem  and  carefully  extract  the  seeds  and  pulp.  Have  ready 
a  filling  composed  of  two  parts  finely  chopped  cabbage  and  one  part 
onions,  also  chopped  fine,  and  season  to  taste  with  celery  and  mustard 
seeds,  pepper  and  sugar.  Fill  the  tomato  shells  as  full  as  possible  and 
tie  the  tops  firmly  on  with  strong  cord.  Let  the  mangoes  lie  over  night 
in  very  strong  brine,  then  scak  them  for  24  hours  in  weak  vinegar. 
Pack  in  a  stone  jar,  leaving  plenty  of  space  above  them,  and  fill  the  jar 
with  three  parts  vinegar  to  one  part  water,  sweetened  to  the  taste. 
These  mangoes  may  be  made  either  sweet  or  sour  as  preferred.  A  few 
pieces  of  horseradish  root  will  season  and  preserve  the  vinegar. 

Tomato  soy  is  made  with  both  green  and  ripe  fruit.  The  following 
is  an  excellent  tested  recipe  for  ripe  tomato  soy:  Peel  and  chop  a 
peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  until  they  are  quite  fine.  Then  put  them  upon 
the  fire  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  a  half  a  teacupful  of  whole  cloves ; 
the  same  quantity  of  whole  allspice;  a  scant  teacupful  of  salt;  a  table- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  three  red  pepper  and  five  onions,  all  of 
which  have  been  chopped  fine.  Let  the  ingredients  boil  together  for  fully 
an  hour,  and  immediately  add  a  quart  of  the  best  cider  vinegar.  When 
the  soy  has   cooled   sufficiently,   it  may  be  bottled. 

Green  Tomato  Soy. — One  peck  green  tomatoes ;  one  quart  onions,  salt 
and  vinegar  as  desired ;  one  teaspoonful  ground  cloves ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  ginger;  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  the  same  of  black  pepper; 
^  teaspoonful  red  pepper;  '-^  pound  brown  sugar;  half  a  grated  nut- 
meg. Wash  the  tomatoes  and  cut  in  slices,  also  the  onions.  Place  a 
layer  of  tomatoes  and  then  sprinkle  with  salt,  next  a  layer  of  onions  in 
the  same  way — until  all  are  done.  Let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain  well  and  then  put  on  the  stove  to  cook,  covering  the  prepara- 
tion with  vinegar.  Add  the  spices  and  let  it  boil  slowly  together  four 
or  five  hours;  then  bottle  hoi,  leaving  the  covers  off  the  jars  till  the 
next  day. 

Tomato  Mustard. — To  one  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  add  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  salt  and  stew  half  an  hour;  then  pass  through  a  sieve.  Add 
two  dessertspoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  onions,  one  dessertspoonful  each 
of  whole  pepper,  allspice  and  cloves  tied  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  half  a 
teaspoonful    of    cayenne;    simmer    down    one-third,    then   stir    in   a    tea- 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  176 

spoonful  of  curry  powder  and  a  teacupful  of  mustard;  simmer  half  an 
hour  longer,  then  bottle. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickle. — Mix  in  the  order  given  one  and  a  half  pints 
of  firm  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chopped,  one-half  cupful  of  chopped 
celery,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  red  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  seed,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  grated  nut- 
meg and  one  cupful  of  vinegar.  Stir  thoroughly,  put  in  a  stone  jar  and 
cover.  It  should  stand  one  week  before  using,  but  may  be  kept  one 
year. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle. — Slice  very  thinly  one  peck  of  green  to- 
matoes and  two  quarts  of  onions,  sprinkling  them  all  with  a  little  salt, 
and  let  them  stand  till  next  day.  Now  drain  them  through  a  colander, 
put  them  on  with  enough  good  vinegar  to  cover  them,  and  boil  very 
gently  till  clear  and  tender.  Then  drain  them  from  the  vinegar.  Put 
into  about  the  same  quantity  of  fresh  vinegar  two  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  one -half  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  one-half  ounce  of  ground 
mace,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  celery  seed  and  ground  cloves,  and  boil 
them  all  together  for  a  few  minutes;  then  pour  it  over  the  drained  to- 
matoes, which  have  been  previously  mixed  with  one  dessertspoonful  of 
cayenne,  one  full  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  mustard  and  of  tur- 
meric; mix  this  all  well  together,  add  about  half  a  pint  of  good  salad 
oil,  and,  when  cold,  put  it  into  jars. 

Sour  Green  Tomato  Pickle. — Peel  green  tomatoes  and  to  each  quart 
add  three  small  cucumbers,  one  pint  small  white  onions,  two  green  pep- 
pers, quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt,  and  half  a  pound  of  mustard  seed. 
Chop  all  fine,  mix  and  set  away  in  a  jar  for  twenty-four  hours;  then 
cover  with  good  vinegar  and  place  bits  of  horseradish  root  on  toip. 
Cover,  but  do  not  seal. 

Tomato  Puree. — Break  ripe  sound  tomatoes  in  halves  and  crush  them 
as  they  heat  slowly.  When  they  are  tender  strain  and  push  the  pulp 
through  a  sieve,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  turn  into  glass  jars. 
Put  the  cover  on  loosely,  stand  the  jars  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  and 
boil  for  half  an  hour.  Then  screw  the  covers  on  firmly.  Use  for  mak- 
ing soups  or  gravies. 

Spiced  Tomatoes. — Put  into  a  preserving  pan  four  pounds  of  good 
red  tomatoes,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  good  vinegar 
(cider  vinegar  if  possible),  and  one-half  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  stick 
cinnamon.  Stew  this  altogether  very  gently  till  the  tomatoes  are  cooked, 
but  not  broken;  then  lift  them  out  and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  Con- 
tinue simmering  very  slowly  till  it  is  as  thick"  as  syrup.    When  the  toma- 


176  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

toes  are  quite  cold,  reheat  them  gently  in  the  syrup  and  again  lift  them 
out,  packing  them,  when  perfectly  cold,  in  jars,  pouring  the  thick 
syrup    (also  quite  cold)    over  them,  and  cover  tight. 

Virginia  Pickle. — This  is  uncooked.  In  a  three-gallon  jar  mix  one 
gallon  of  strong  vinegar,  one-half  pint  of  salt,  three  pounds  of  hrown 
sugar,  two  ounces  each  of  black  pepper,  brown  ginger,  celery  seed,  mus- 
tard seed,  mace,  cloves,  horseradish  and  allspice,  one-half  box  of  ground 
mustard,  a  little  red  pepper  and  one-half  dozen  pepper  pods.  Peel  three 
dozen  onions  and  put  them  with  fresh  cucumbers,  just  from  the  vine, 
washed  and  wiped  dry,  into  the  spiced  vinegar,  using  enough  cucumbers  to 
fill  the  jar.  Agitate  the  pickles  every  other  morning  for  several  months 
or  until  cool  weather  comes.  Then  add  more  sugar  until  the  pickles 
have  a  pleasant  taste. 

Pickled  Walnuts.— The  walnuts  must  be  gathered  while  young  and 
green,  and  be  laid  in  strong  brine.  Leave  them  in  this  for  a  week, 
changing  it  every  other  day.  Take  them  out,  dry  them  between  two 
cloths  and  pierce  each  with  a  large  needle.  Throw  them  into  cold 
water  and  leave  them  several  hours  before  packing  them  in  small  jars 
and  pouring  over  them  scalding  hot  seasoned  vinegar,  prepared  in  the 
following  proportions:  Four  quarts  of  vinegar,  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
three  dozen  cloves,  three  dozen  black  peppers,  18  whole  allspice  and  12 
blades  of  mace  boiled  together  for  five  minutes. 

Yellow  Mustard  Pickle.— One-half  gallon  vinegar,  three  dozen  sliced 
cucumbers,  three  dozen  onions,  one  tablespoonful  turmeric,  one  table- 
spoon mustard,  one-half  cup  each  of  sugar  and  flour,  and  one-third 
teaspoon  of  red  pepper.  Pare  and  slice  cucumbers  and  onions,  cover 
with  water,  add  one-half  cup  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain  the  cucumbers  and  onions;  put  vinegar  on  the  stove  to 
boil,  mix  the  spices,  sugar  and  flour  in  a  little  cold  vinegar,  add  to  the 
boiling  vinegar  and  let  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  then  put 
in  cucumbers  and  onions,  boil  15  minutes  and  seal  in  jars  while  hot. 

Vinegar  for  Yellow  Pickles. — This  may  be  used  for  cucumbers,  to- 
matoes or  any  other  vegetable  desired.  Use  one-half  pound  of  grated 
horseradish,  one  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  one-half  pound  of  black 
mustard  seed,  one  ounce  each  of  mace,  nutmegs,  cloves,  allspice  and 
ground  white  pepper,  two  ounces  of  turmeric,  one-half  cupful  of  ground 
mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed,  four  cloves  of  garlic,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  ground  ginger  and  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Puf 
in  a  three-gallon  jar  with  two  gallons  of  vinegar.  Stir  frequently  and  let 
remain  for  several  weeks  before  using.  This  will  keep  any  length  of 
time.     Half  quantity  may  be  prepared  for  the  use  of  a  small  family. 

Corn  Vinegar.— A  friend  says  she  prefers  this  to  cider  vinegar: 
One  pint  corn  cut  from  cob;   one  pint  of  brown   sugar   or  molasses,   to 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  177 

one   gallon   of    rain   water.     Put    in    a    large    jar.     Keep    covered    with    a 
cloth.     Set  in  the  sun.     In  a  month  you  will  have  good  vinegar. 

Fruit  Vinegars. — Among  suggestions  for  making  vinegar  given  by  a 
correspondent  of  Good  Housekeeping,  it  is  stated  that  half-gallon  fruit 
jars  are  better  than  stone  jugs  to  make  it  in,  as  a  larger  surface  is 
exposed  to  the  light  and  air,  and  by  shaking  often,  oxygenation,  souring, 
is  hastened.  A  cloth  should,  of  course,  be  tied  over  the  top  to  keep  out 
insects  and  dust.  The  jars  should  be  set  in  the  sun,  and-  whenever  the 
fluid  has  worked  clear,  strain  off  and  leave  it  in  a  warm  place  until  it  is 
as  sharp  as  desired.  When  mother  forms,  new  vinegar  can  be  made  by 
simply  adding  sweetened  water.  Always  use  soft  water,  but  if  it  is  not 
available,  boil  the  water  and  set  it  in  the  sun  a  day  or  two.  To  make 
vinegar  from  apple  or  peach  parings,  fill  a  jar  half  full  of  parings,  add 
one-half  teacup  molasses,  and  fill  up  with  water.  Set  in  the  sun  and 
strain  for  use  in  about  two  weeks.  Tomato  vinegar  is  made  by  mashing 
and  straining  a  quart  of  ripe  tomatoes,  putting  in  a  jar  with  one  cupful 
of  sugar  or  molasses,  then  filling  the  jar  with  soft  water,  and  keeping  in 
a  sunny  place  two  weeks.  In  default  of  other  material  vinegar  may  be 
made  from  yeast.  Dissolve  half  a  teacupful  of  brown  sugar  in  one  pint 
of  warm  water,  add  one  small  yeast  cake,  and  fill  the  jar  with  water. 
This  must  be  left  to  work  for  two  weeks. 

Gooseberry  Vinegar. — Boil  one  gallon  of  water;  when  cold  add  three 
quarts  of  ripe  gooseberries,  mashed.  Allow  it  to  stand  for  four  days, 
stirring  every  day.  On  the  fourth  day  strain  through,  a  sieve  to  remove 
the  seeds,  then  barrel.  To  erch  gallon  of  the  liquid  add  l^/i  pound 
sugar,  and  one-eighth  cake  of  compressed  yeast.  We  used  to  use  barm 
(the  foam  from  fermenting  beer)  which  was  the  ordinary  form  of  yeast 
years  ago  in  communities  where  home  brewing  was  practiced.  Stir  every 
day  until  the  vinegar  has  done  fermenting,  then  close  the  barrel.  Green 
or  amber  gooseberries  are  best.     This  is  a  very  superior  vinegar. 

Honey  Vinegar. — One  friend  says  she  uses  VA  pound  of  strained 
honey  to  a  gallon  of  water,  but  Bulletin  146  of  the  Otitario  (Canada) 
Department  of  Agriculture  advises  l^A  ounce  of  honey  to  one  gallon  of 
clear,  soft  water.  Store  in  a  barrel  with  an  opening  to  permit  air  circu- 
lation, in  a  warm  place;  at  the  end  of  a  year  it  is  ready  for  use.  The 
Ontario  bulletin  says  its  keeping  qualities  are  excellent,  and  the  best  of 
pickles  can  be  made  with  it,  v/hile  it  is  recommended  for  salads. 

Spiced  Vinegar. — This  gives  a  fine  flavor  to  green  vegetables,  such  as 
cucumbers,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  beans,  salads,  etc.  For  each  quart  of 
vinegar  slice  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  small  onion,  a  two-inch  root  of  horse- 
radish, half  an  ounce  of  bruised  ginger  root,  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
unground  black  pepper,  allspice  and  mustard  seed.  Put  all  in  a  stone  jar 
and  simmer  on  the  range  for  five  hours.     Then  strain  and  bottle  for  use. 


178  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES. 

Barberry  Catsup. — Stew  three  quarts  of  barberries  with  three  cupfuls 
of  water  til)  well  cooked,  then  strain  through  a  sieve.  In  a  separate 
saucepan  stew  four  quarts  of  cranberries,  a  cupful  of  raisins,  a  large 
quince  sliced,  four  small  onions  minced  and  a  quart  of  water  for  half  an 
hour,  then  pass  through  a  sieve;  mix  with  the  barberry  juice  and  add 
half  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  one- fourth  of  a  cupful  of  salt,  two  cupfuls  of 
brown  sugar,  a  dessertspoonful  each  of  ground  cloves  and  ground  all- 
spice, two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  black  pepper  and  celery  seed,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cayenne,  cinnamon  and  ginger  and  a  grated  nutmeg.  Let 
the  whole  boil  one  minute.  If  too  thick  add  vinegar  or  water.  This  recipe 
is  given  by  Miss  Parloa;  some  cooks  make  the  catsup  omitting  the  quince 
and  cranberries. 

Bordeaux  Sauce. — Two  quarts  of  cabbage  chopped  to  a  powder,  one 
quart  of  chopped  green  tomatoes,  drained  free  of  juice,  three  small  onions 
chopped,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one-quarter  ounce  each  of  celery  seed, 
black  pepper,  ginger  and  turmeric,  one-eighth  pound  of  mustard  seed, 
one-quarter  cupful  of  salt,  and  one-half  pound  of  brown  sugar;  mix 
together,  boil  15  minutes,  and  can  while  hot. 

Chili  Sauce. — Peel  and  chop  fine  one  onion,  and  six  large  tomatoes, 
add  one  green  sweet  Spanish  pepper  and  one  small  hot  chili  pepper, 
chopped;  then  season  with  one  cupful  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  salt, 
two  teaspoonfuls  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  ginger, 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  black  pepper,  and  half  a  nutmeg.  Boil  slowly  until 
very  thoroughly  cooked,  then  bottle  and  seal  when  cold. 

Chutney  Sauce. — Eight  ounces  of  tart  apples,  peeled  and  cored,  eight 
ounces  of  peeled  tomatoes,  eight  ounces  brown  sugar,  eight  ounces  salt, 
four  ounces  powdered  ginger,  four  ounces  red  peppers,  two  ounces 
shallots  (or  onion),  two  ounces  garlic.  Pound  all  together  in  a  mortar 
(or  pass  through  a  chopper  set  to  cut  fine)  and  then  put  all  the  materials 
together  in  a  jar  with  2^  pints  good  vinegar.  Place  the  jar  in  a  warm 
place,  covered  for  one  month,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  twice  every 
day.  At  the  end  of  the  time  pass  the  chutney  through  a  sieve,  and  bottle, 
when  it  is  ready  for  use.  The  intense  heat  of  the  peppers  grows  milder 
with   keeping,   and   the   chutney   improves   and   becomes    richer   in   flavor. 

Peach  Chutney. — Pare  and  halve  sufficient  peaches'  to  weigh,  when 
ready,  three  pounds.  Put  them  in  a  large  agate  saucepan,  add  one  pint 
of  vinegar  and  stew  gently  until  tender.  Pound  together  in  a  mortar 
four  ounces  of  white  onions,  two  ounces  garlic  and  five  ounces  of  fresh 
ginger  root;  add  these  to  the  peaches  with  six  ounces  each  of  sugar, 
seeded  raisins  and  white  mustard  seed.  Add  two  ounces  of  dried  chillies 
and  one  cupful  of  vinegar.  Simmer  for  10  minutes  longer,  then  bottle. 
This  is  a  familiar  old  English  recipe. 


I 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  179 

Cranberry  Catsup  (Good  Housekeeping). — One  quart  of  cranberries, 
one  cup  of  water  and  two  cups  of  vinegar.  Tie  in  a  piece  of  muslin  a 
few  cloves,  three  or  four  allspice,  about  a  dessertspoon  of  broken  cinna- 
mon, and  some  mace.  Simmer  all  together  in  a  preserving  kettle  until 
the  fruit  is  perfectly  soft.  Press  through  a  colander,  add  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  simmer  10  minutes  longer,  and  seal.  This  recipe  will  make 
a  most  delicious  catsup,  and  one  conveniently  made  in  small  quantities 
at  any  time  throughout  the  Winter. 

Cucumber  Catsup. — For  a  small  quantity  take  12  fine  full-grown 
cucumbers  and  lay  them  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Then  pare  them  and 
grate  them  down  in  a  deep  dish.  Grate  also  six  small  onions  and  mix 
them  with  the  grated  cucumber;  season  the  mixture  to  your  taste  with 
pepper,  salt  and  vinegar,  making  it  of  the  consistency  of  jam.  When 
thoroughly  mixed  put  it  in  a  glass  jar,  cover  closely  so  that  it  will  be 
perfectly  air-tight.  It  will  be  found  very  nice  to  eat  with  beef  or  mutton, 
and  if  properly  made  and  tightly  covered  it  will  keep  well.  It  should  be 
grated  very  fine,  and  the' vinegar  must  be  real  cider  vinegar. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Catsup. —  (Some  people  call  this  a  "salad,"  but  it  is 
worth  making  under  any  name.)  Peel  12  large,  ripe  cucum.bers ;  remove 
seeds  and  pulp;  chop  the  solid  meat;  mix  with  it  a  cupful  of  salt  and 
hang  in  bag  to  drain.  Chop  12  large  onions  and  six  peppers  and  mix 
with  the  cucumbers.  Mix  together  one-fourth  pound  white  mustard  seed; 
one-half  cupful  celery  seed,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Mix  all  together; 
cover  with  cold  vinegar;  put  in  cans  and  fix  tops  firmly.  The  above,  or 
any  similar  preparations  should  be  kept  in  a  dark,  cool  place.  If  the 
darkness  is  not  available,  wrap  the  cans  with  papers. 

Cooked  Cucumber  Catsup. — Choose  large,  nearly  ripe  cucumbers;  pare, 
reject  seeds,  chop  very  fine  and  measure.  Allow  one  teaspoonful  of  salt 
for  every  pint  of  pulp,  sprinkle  with  same  and  drain  through  a  colander 
for  six  hours.  For  every  quart  of  cucumber  allow  two  cups  of  cider 
vinegar,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  grated  horseradish,  one  tablespoonful  each 
of  white  mustard  seed  and  minced  red  pepper  (seeds  rejected)  ;  bring 
vinegar  and  flavoring  to  a  boil,  skim  thoroughly  and  set  aside  until 
perfectly  cold.  Then  add  the  pulp  to  the  vinegar,  stir  well,  put  into  pint 
jars,  lay  a  nasturtium  or  horseradish  leaf  over  the  top  and  seal.  Keep 
in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

Currant  Catsup.— To  five  pounds  of  currants  allow  three  pounds  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one 
tablespoonful  of  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Mash  the  currants  and  rub  them 
through  a  sieve;  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  boil  for  twenty 
minutes.    Bottle  as  you  would  tomato  catsup. 


ISO     "        THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Gooseberry  Catsup. — Five  pounds  of  fruit,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  V/2 
quart  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  allspice.  Wash  the  berries,  put  them  in 
a  porcelain  stev^^pan,  mash  them  well,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  boil 
until  thick.     Seal  while  hot. 

Grape  Catsup. — Pick  seven  pounds  of  grapes  off  the  stems,  wash  them, 
put  them  in  a  stone  jar  and  set  the  jar  over  the  fire  in  a  deep  pot  of 
boiling  water.  Let  the  grapes  cook  in  this  manner  for  an  hour  in  order 
to  loosen  the  seeds.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  strain  through  a  sieve, 
being  careful  that  all  the  pulp  goes  through.  Then  add  a  pint  of  good 
cider  vinegar,  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  each 
of  cinnamon  and  cloves.     Return  to  the  fire  and  cook  until  thick. 

Mushroom  Catsup. — The  mushrooms  should  be  freshly  gathered;  care- 
fully examined  to  see  that  they  harbor  no  insects,  and  wiped,  but  not 
washed.  Put  a  layer  of  mushrooms  in  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  dish, 
and  sprinkle  well  with  salt;  then  another  layer  and  more  salt,  continuing 
imtil  all  are  used.  Cover  with  a  folded  towel,  and  stand  in  a  cool  place 
for  24  hours;  then  mash  and  strain  through  a  coarse  bag.  If  put  in  a 
warm  place  the  juice  will  ferment.  To  every  quart  of  liquid  add  one 
ounce  of  pepper  corns,  and  boil  slowly  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  for  30 
minutes;  then  add  one-fourth  ounce  whole  allspice,  one-half  ounce  sliced 
ginger  root,  one  dozen  whole  cloves  and  three  blades  of  mace.  Boil  15 
minutes  longer,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When 
cool,  strain  through  flannel,  and  put  in  small  bottles,  filling  to  the  very 
top.  Cork  tightly,  and  dip  cork  in  sealing  wax.  This  is  a  delicious 
relish  or  seasoning,  especially  with  poultry  and  mutton. 

Oude  Sauce. — Four  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  18  small  peppers,  18 
small  white  onions;  chop  all  together,  add  three  cupfuls  of  salt  and  let 
stand  ever  night.  In  the  morning  drain  ofif  the  water  and  add  four 
cupfuls  of  sugar,  four  of  horseradish,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  ground 
cloves,  four  of  cinnamon  and  cover  with  vinegar;  stew  gently  all  day, 
then   bottle   and   seal. 

Pepper  Sauce. — ;Take  two  dozen  large  ripe  peppers,  remove  the  stems 
and  most  of  the  seeds  ;  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  three  sliced  onions,  two- 
cloves  of  garlic,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  grated  horseradish;  boil  together  until  the  vegetables  can  be 
rubbed  through  a  coarse  sieve;  return  to  the  fire,  add  a  pint  of  vinegar,, 
one  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cloves, 
allspice  and  black  pepper;  boil  five  minutes;  bottle  and  seal  while  ftot. 
Plum  Catsup. — Wash  and  drain  four  quarts  of  damson  plums;  c(«.ver 
with  a  quart  of  water  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  then  press  througUp  a 
sieve,  rubbing  through  as  much  pulp  and  skin  as  you  ran;  return  to  th« 
kettle;   add   three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  t\v?8j:  leve.1  tea&:^oonluI» 


THE    RURAL     COOK    BOOK.  181 

of  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  allspice  and  one  of  ground  cloves; 
simmer  gently  until  as  thick  as  tomato  catsup ;  then  bottle  and  cork. 

Peach  Catsup. — Pare  and  quarter  one  peck  of  firm,  ripe  peaches;  add 
one  pint  of  water  to  the  peelings  and  one  dozen  sliced  kernels;  simmer 
30  minutes,  then  strain ;  add  peaches  to  the  liquor  and  simmer  another 
30  minutes;  add  one  cupful  cf  vinegar,  one-half  cupful  each  of  lemon 
juice  and  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon,  and  one-half 
teaspoonful  each  of  ground  clo\es,  mace  and  pepper,  and  boil  very  slowly 
until  as  thick  as  desired.     Seal  hot  in  pint  jars. 

Red  Pepper  Catsup. — Two  dozen  pods  of  red  pepper;  put  in  a  preserve 
kettle  with  a  half  pint  of  strong  vinegar  and  a  pint  of  water;  set  on  the 
stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  one  root  of  grated  horseradish,  three 
sliced  onions,  six  whole  cloves  and  one-half  ounce  of  white  mustard  seed. 
Let  boil  10  minutes  longer  and  strain.  Put  back  in  the  kettle  with  a  half 
leacupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  ounce  of  celery  seed  and  a  pint  of  strong 
vinegar.  Boil  one  hour,  then  bottle.  This  catsup  will  keep  any  length 
of  time. 

Shirley  Sauce. — Chop  very  fine  twenty- four  large  tomatoes,  two  large 
onions,  two  peppers;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  two  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg,  one 
pint  of  vinegar.     Stew  one  hour  and  bottle  while  hot. 

Southern  Mixed  Catsup. — Peel  and  cut  up  enough  crisp,  green  cucum- 
bers to  fill  a  half-gallon  measure,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  six 
hours,  press  the  water  from  them  and  scald  in  weak  vinegar.  Prepare 
half  a  gallon  of  cabbage  in  the  same  way.  Chop  one  dozen  small  onions, 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  half  an  hour.  Cut  in  slices  one 
quart  of  green  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  green  beans,  one  dozen  small  ears 
of  tender  corn  and  one  dozen  green  peppers.  Scald  and  drain  them. 
Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horseradish,  one  teacupful  of  ground 
mustard,  two  cupfuls  of  white  mustard  seed,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
turmeric,  one  of  mace,  three  of  celery  seed,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  of 
cayenne,  two  of  olive  oil  and  one  pound  of  sugar.  Put  in  a  jar  with 
the  prepared  vegetables   and   cover  with   boiling  vinegar. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Pare  one-half  bushel  tomatoes  and  cook  until  very 
soft,  sift  them,  taking  all  the  seeds  out.  Then  cook  until  as  thick  as  you 
desire  the  catsup  and  then  add  one  quart  vinegar,  one-half  pint  salt,  and 
the  following  spices:  One  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves,  ginger  and  cinna- 
mon, two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  mustard,  black  pepper  and  allspice,  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper.  Let  it  cook  10  minutes,  then  bottle 
and  cork  tight,  no  further  sealing  is  needed  as  it  will  keep  for  years 
simply  corked. 

Tomato  Catsup  No.  2. — Wash  and  cut  in  pieces  a  half  peck  of  ripe 
tomatoes.     Cook  in  a  porcelain-lined  or  granite  iron  preserving  kettle  till 


182  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

soft  enough  to  put  through  a  sieve,  which  will  remove  skins  and  seeds. 
To  the  pulp  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  pepper, 
one-half  tablespoon  allspice,  one-half  tablespoon  cloves  and  one-half  pint 
vinegar.  Let  the  tomato  cook  for  several  hours  before  adding  the  spices 
and  vinegar.  Mix  the  salt  and  spices  dry  in  a  bowl,  and  blend  well  before 
putting  into  the  tomato.  Cook  till  quite  thick  and  put  in  bottles.  Store 
in  a  cool  cellar. 

Uncooked  Tomato  Catsup. — Peel  and  chop  a  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  and 
hang  in  bag,  to  drain  for  24  hours.  Add  to  the  drained  tomato  four 
bunches  of  celery  (chopped  fine)  and  one  large  cupful  of  chopped  onion. 
Mix  the  three  vegetables  thoroughly  and  then  add  one-fourth  cup  of  salt; 
one- fourth  cup  sugar;  two  tablespoonfuls  mustard  seed;  two  tablespoon- 
fuls ground  cinnamon ;  one  teaspoonful  ground  allspice,  and  two  large  red 
peppers,  chopped  fine.  Alix  very  thoroughly;  cover  with  good  cider 
vinegar,  and  put  in  self-sealing  cans. 

Uncooked  Catsup  No.  2. — One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes ;  two  horseradish 
roots ;  two  large  onions ;  four  stalks  of  celery ;  two  ounces  mustard  seed  ; 
four  green  peppers;  one  scant  cup  of  salt;  one  cup  of  sugar;  three  pints 
of  vinegar.  Pare  and  quarter  tomatoes,  place  in  colander  to  drain;  chop 
fine  the  celery,  onions  and  peppers;  grate  the  horseradish.  Mix  all  thor- 
oughly.    Put  in  cans  and  seal. 

Green  Tomato  Catsup. — One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  two  large 
onions  sliced.  Place  them  in  layers,  sprinkling  salt  between ;  let  them 
stand  24  hours  and  then  wash  and  drain  them.  Add  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  allspice,  one  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  ground 
mustard,  one  ounce  ground  ginger,  two  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper,  two 
teaspoonfuls  celery  seed,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Put  all 
in  preserving  pan,  cover  with  vinegar  and  boil  two  hours ;  then  strain 
through  a  sieve  and  bottle  for  use. 

Tomato  Chutney. — Two  pounds  ripe  tomatoes,  two  pounds  sugar,  one- 
half  pound  green  ginger,  one  pound  raisins  stoned,  one-fourth  pound  of 
salt,  one  ounce  garlic,  one-haif  ounce  powdered  chillies,  one  quart  vinegar. 
Place  the  tomatoes  in  a  shallow  pan  and  put  in  an  oven  till  they  crack, 
when  the  skins  can  be  readily  removed.  Peel  and  core  and  boil  them 
with  one-half  of  the  vinegar  10  minutes.  Pound  or  grind  the  ginger, 
garlic  and  raisins  with  enough  vinegar  to  make  them  into  a  paste.  Boil 
the  sugar  with  the  remainder  of  the  vinegar  into  a  thick  syrup.  Mix  ail 
the  ingredients  together  with  the  salt  and  chillies,  and  boil  till  the  fruit  and 
syrup  run  the  one  way  when  put  on  a  plate  held  sideways.    Bottle  and  seal. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

SALADS. 

Beet  Dressing. — One  cupful  vinegar,  one-half  cupful  sugar,  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  scant  tablespoon  of  cornstarch 
or  flour.  Mix  thoroughl}'-,  boil  till  it  thickens,  pour  over  the  sliced  boiled 
beets  and  serve  immediately. 

Butter  Dressing  for  Potato  Salad. — One  cupful  butter,  melted,  into 
which  is  stirred  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  half  cupful  of  vinegar,  one 
teaspoonful  salt,  one  egg,  half  teaspoonful  mustard,  and  a  little  pepper. 
Add  a  small  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  together  until  thickened 
like  cream. 

Dressing  With  Bacon  Fat. — Cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  a 
dash  of  paprika  or  red  pepper  in  five  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  bacon  fat. 
Add  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  half  a  cupful  of  water. 
Stir  and  cook  until  boiling.  Then  gradually  pour  over  the  beaten  yolk 
of  an  egg  (preferably  two  yolks).  Return  to  the  fire  (over  hot  water)  to 
cook  the  egg,  and  add  salt  if  needed.  Use  when  cold.  This  dressing  is 
particularly  good  with  endive  or  lettuce,  alone  or  with  eggs. 

French  Dressing. — This  consists  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  to  one 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  For  every  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  three 
of  oil,  take  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of 
black  or  white  pepper.  I\Iix  the  salt  and  pepper  with  the  oil  and  add  the 
vinegar  gradually,  stirring  thoroughly  until  it  becomes  white  and  a  little 
thickened.  This  dressing  must  be  used  as  soon  as  it  is  made  or  it  will 
separate. 

Prepared  Dressing. — Here  is  a  delicious  salad  dressing,  which  will  keep 
a  long  time  if  put  on  ice,  or  in  a  cold  place.  Mix  half  a  cupful  of  oil, 
five  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoonful  powdered  sugar,  half  a 
small  Bermuda  onion,  finely  chopped,  two  tablespoonfuls  chopped  parsley, 
half  a  tablespoonful  chopped  red  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  chopped  greea 
pepper,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Let  it  stand  for  an  hour,  then  whip  up 
with  an  tgg  beater  before  using. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing. — Chill  a  cupful  of  rich  sour  cream  until  very 
cold,  then  beat  well  for  five  minutes,  adding,  while  beating,  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  powdered  sugar  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Slice 
chilled  cucumbers  very  thin,  and  serve  with  this  dressing. 

Salad  Dressing  Without  Oil. — Piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Heat  in  granite  basin,  add  sifted  flour  till  thick.  Then  add  one  cupful 
of  milk.    When  smooth  add  one  cupful  vinegar;  two  eggs  (beaten);  salt, 


184  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

pepper,  red  or  black,  mnstard,  seasoned  as  you  wish ;  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar.  Cook  till  thick.  The  jiditicn  of  a  half  cupful  of  well-beaten  sour 
or  sweet  cream  will  be  found  excellent.  This  dressing  on  potatoes,  cu- 
cumbers, lettuce  or  beets  makes  a  most  palatable  salad.  The  friend  who 
gave  this  says  it  is  a  dressing  that  will  keep  for  some  time.  She  always 
keeps  a  jar  of  it  on  hand.  The  left-over  dish  of  beets,  peas  or  string 
beans  is  put  in  the  potato  salad   for  supper. 

Mayonnaise. — Put  tlie  uncocked  yolks  of  two  eggs  into  an  earthen 
bowl,  beat  them  well  with  a  silver  or  wooden  fork  for  about  one  minute; 
then  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  if  you  desire, 
a  half-teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Work  these  well  together,  and  then  add 
drop  by  drop,  a  half  pint  or  more  of  olive  oil.  Stir  rapidly  and  steadily 
v;hile  adding  the  oil ;  do  not  reverse  the  motion,  or  the  mayonnaise  may 
curdle.  After  stirring  in  the  first  gill  of  oil,  alternate  occasionally  with 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  The  more  oil  you  use.  the  thicker 
the  dressing.  If  too  thick,  add  vinegar  enough  to  make  it  the  proper 
consistency.  The  mayonnaise  should  be  kept  as  cool  as  possible  during 
the  making. 

Banana  Salad. — The  bananas  are  peeled,  sliced  lengthwise  down  the 
middle,  dipped  in  mayonnaise,  and  laid,  fiat  side  up,  on  lettuce  leaves. 
A  layer  of  finely  chopped  peanuts  is  put  on  the  banana,  and  a  spoonful  of 
mayonnaise  dressing  put  by  it.  Serve  with  heated  graham  crackers.  This 
is  delicious. 

Beet  Salad. — Slice  and  cut  into  dice  enough  cold  boiled  beets  to  make 
a  pint;  heap  in  the  center  of  a  salad  dish,  and  cover  with  sauce  Tartare. 
This  is  made  by  adding  a  few  chopped  olives,  gherkins  and  capers  to 
mayonnaise  dressing.  If  the  mayonnaise  is  not  desired,  any  ordinary  salad 
mixture  may  be  used,  and  the  salad  garnished  with  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
parsley. 

Cream  Slaw. — Cut  a  small  half  head  of  white,  tender  cabbage  on  a 
slaw  cutter  (or  fine,  with  a  sharp  knife)  ;  sprinkle  a  very  little  black 
pepper  over  it,  and  add  one-third  of  small  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Have 
ready  a  small  half  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream;  add  to  this  three  even 
tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar;  stir  until  dissolved,  then  whip  this 
to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  gradually  two  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  good 
vinegar.  When  finished  pour  over  the  cabbage,  stirring  it  lightly  until 
all  is  covered  and  stand  in  refrigerator,  or  in  cold  water,  for  10  or  1.5 
minutes  before  serving.  The  slaw  should  not  be  made  too  long  before 
serving,  as  the  cold,  crisp  taste  is  most  appetizing. 

Herring  Salad. — Heat  through  by  broiling,  or  in  the  oven,  three  smoked 
herrings.  Then  tear  off  the  heads  and  pull  the  skin  away;  split,  take  out 
the  backbones,  and  cut  up  into  small  bits,  or  to  shred  them  is  better. 
Put  in  a  salad  bowl,  add  one  small  chopped  onion,  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped,  and  one  boiled  potato ;   cut  fine  with  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  185 

parsley ;  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  two  of  oil;  mix  well,  and  if  you  have  it,  deco- 
rate with  a  boiled  beet. 

Hot  Slaw. — Cut  a  head -of  cabbage  fine.  Have  ready  enough  dressing, 
half  vinegar  and  half  water,  and  one-fourth  sugar,  with  a  lump  of  butter 
to  cover  it.  Simmer  until  done.  It  is  good  cold.  It  is  well  to  salt  the 
dressing  a  little,  to  taste. 

Potato  Salad. — Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  with  one  raw  onion  to  sea- 
son. For  the  salad  dressing,  put  on  stove  a  saucepan  with  one  pint  of 
vinegar  and  butter  the  size  of  an  Qgg,.  Beat  two  or  three  eggs  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  of 
black  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  When  thoroughly  beaten  pour 
slowly  into  the  vinegar  until  it  thickens.  Be  careful  not  to  cook  too 
long,  or  the  egg  will  curdle.  Remove  and  when  cold  pour  over  the  salad. 
It  improves  this  to  add  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  hard  boiled  eggs  mashed 
luie  and  beaten  in  with  the  mustard,  or  add  a  cupful  of  cream.  This  will 
keep  several  days  in  a  cool  pbce  if  desired.  Plain  French  dressing  may 
be  used  instead  if  desired. 

German  Potato  Salad. — Boil  a  few  extra  potatoes  at  dinner  time. 
When  cold,  carefully  slice  very  thin.  Set  away  to  chill.  When  supper 
time  comes,  cut  for  a  quart  of  sliced  potatoes  one  good-sized  onion  into 
thin  slices.  Add  a  dash  of  pepper.  Take  two  big  'slices  of  bacon,  very 
fat,  cut  into  cubes,  fry,  add  one-half  cupful  of  vinegar.  Pour  over  the 
ialad  and  toss  lightly  with  two  forks. 

Waldorf  Salad. — Handsome  red  apples  are  selected,  polished,  but  not 
peeled,  cored,  and  then  hollowed  into  cups.  The  pieces  removed  are 
mixed  with  chopped  celery,  put  in  the  apple  cups,  a  spoonful  of  mayon- 
naise dressing  being  put  over  the  top.  The  apples  are  put  on  individual 
plates,  each  fruit  standing  on  a  crinkly  lettuce  leaf. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

CHEESE. 

Cottage  Cheese. — Bulletin  No.  245,  issued  by  the  New  York  Experi- 
ment Station  at  Geneva,  is  devoted  to  this  subject;  it  will  be  found  help- 
ful by  anyone  making  this  cheese,  either  for  market  or  domestic  use.  In 
describing  the  manufacture  of  this  cheese,  the  bulletin  says  that  good 
cottage  cheese  should  have  a  soft,  smooth  texture,  being  neither  mushy 
nor  dry  and  sawdust  like.  The  flavor  should  be  that  of  mildly  soured 
milk  or  well  ripened  cream,  with  an  entire  absence  of  bitter  taste,  flavor 
of  stable,  or  other  objectionable  qualities.  Such  flavor  may  usually  be 
secured  by  the  use  of  a  good  starter;  but  if  too  much  whey  is  retained 
the  cheese  may  be  sour.  Flavor  and  texture  are  quite  closely  connected, 
at  this  point,  for  a  slow  draining  curd  is  liable  to  result  in  poor  textured 
and  poor  flavored  cheese.  The  various  steps  in  making  cottage  cheese 
may  be  summarized  as  follows. 

Use  skim-milk  rather  than  whole  milk,  to  avoid  loss  of  fat.  To  se- 
cure proper  flavor  and  speedy  souring  add  a  small  amount  of  a  good 
starter.  This  starter  should  be  prepared  from  clean,  fresh  milk,  sep- 
arated from  the  cream  and  placed  in  a  carefully  cleaned  receptacle,  well 
covered  and  brought  to  a  temperature  of  90  degrees,  and  then  allowed  to 
stand  from  20  to  24  hours  at  a  temperature  of  65  to  78  degrees.  The 
upper  portion  of  this  should  be  discarded  and  the  amount  needed  strained 
through  a  fine  strainer  or  hair  sieve  and  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  milk 
from  which  cheese  is  to  be  made  the  next  day.  A  portion  may  also  be 
used  in  preparing  a  starter  for  the  next  day,  but  as  soon  as  any  unfav- 
orable effect  is  noticed  a  new  stafter  should  be  prepared.  Several  good 
and  convenient  commercial  starters  are  on  the  market,  for  use  of  which 
directions   accompany  each   package. 

The  milk  is  now  kept  at  a  temperature  of  70  to  75  degrees  until  well 
curdled,  often  in  24  hours,  sometimes  not  until  48  hours.  The  curdled 
mass  is  broken  up  by  hand  or  by  a  curd  knife,  raised  gradually  to  90  de- 
grees, taking  30  to  40  minutes  in  the  process.  The  whey  should  then 
separate  clear  in  15  to  20  minutes,  after  which  it  is  run  from  the  curd, 
and  the  latter  placed  in  muslin  bags  or  on  racks  to  drain.  When  whey 
ceases  to  come  from  the  curd,  salt  is  added  to  taste  or  at  the  rate  of 
about  a  pound  for  100  pounds  of  cheese,  the  curd  formed  into  balls  and 
wrapped  in  oiled  paper  that  may  be  obtained  from  any  dairy  supply 
house.  For  the  finest  quality  of  cheese,  thick  cream,  preferably  ripened 
cream,  should  be  added  at  the  rate  of  about  an  ounce  for  one  pound 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  187 

of  cheese,  before  the  cheese  is  made  into  balls.  If  it  is  thought  best  to 
hasten  the  curdling  rennet  extract  may  be  added  about  eight  hours  after 
the  starter  has  been  introduced,  using  one  ounce  of  rennet  extract  for 
1,000  pounds  of  milk. 

Escalloped  Cheese. — Into  a  buttered  baking  dish  sprinkle  a  layer  of 
coarse  bread  crumbs,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  on  top.  Next  add  a 
layer  of  cheese,  alternating  with  bread  and  cheese  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Have  bread  crumbs  on  top,  pour  on  sweet  milk  until  you  can  see  it  by 
tilting  the  dish  a  little,  and  bake  until  done. 

Cheese  Fondu. — Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  pan,  then  one  cup 
milk;  let  it  boil,  then  add  one  cup  bread  crumbs  and  two  cups  grated 
cheese,  little  pepper  and  dry  mustard.  When  the  cheese  melts  add  two 
well-beaten  eggs. 

Macaroni  with  Cheese. — Throw  one-half  box  of  macaroni  into  boiling 
water  and  cook  20  minutes.  Never  let  the  water  stop  boiling,  or  the 
macaroni  will  be  soft.  Drain  and  pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Have 
ready  one  cup  of  cheese  cut  into  small  pieces  and  stir  this  through  the 
hot  macaroni  together  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  small  ^gg.  Add  enough  sweet  milk  almost  to  cover  and 
sprinkle  the  top  with  more  grated  cheese.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven.     A  good  supper  dish  on  a  cold  night. 

Cheese  Patties. — When  making  pies  line  a  number  of  patty  pans  with 
thin  paste  and  bake.  These  will  keep  several  days,  but  are  better  fresh. 
Grate  one-fourth  pound  cheese  and  add  one  pint  milk,  one  tablespoon 
flour,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard  or  one  dessertspoon  prepared  m.ustard, 
one  tablespoon  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Carefully  heat  to- 
gether, stirring  to  make  a  smooth  mass.     Serve  hot  in  the  patty  shells. 

Cheese  Puffs. — Make  some  puff  paste;  roll  it  out  and  cut  it  into  squares 
of  about  three  inches.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  little  made  mus- 
tard, a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese, 
to  form  a  thick  paste.  Place  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  in  each  square 
of  pastry,  pull  the  four  points  to  the  center,  pinching  them  together  to 
make  them  stand  up.     Bake  10  minutes  and  serve  very  hot. 

Cheese  Pudding. — Lay  thin  slices  of  stale  bread,  lightly  buttered,  in  a 
baking  dish,  and  cover  with  broken  cheese,  no  matter  how  old  and  dry 
it  is.  Season  with  red  pepper  and  salt.  Fill  the  dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  bread  and  cheese.  Beat  two  eggs  in  a  pint  of  milk,  pour  over 
the  bread  and  cheese,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  This  will  serve  six  per- 
sons. 

Spanish  Rabbit. — To  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese  add  two-thirds  the 
quantity  of  minced  onion,  which  is  first  cooked  in  boiling  water.  Drain 
and  add  milk  almost  to  cover  the  onions ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  when  the  milk  is  hot  put  in  the  cheese.  As  soon  as  the  cheese  is 
melted  stir  in  one  well-beaten  &gg.     Cook  a  moment  longer  and  serve. 


388  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Cheese  Ramekins. — Two  ounces  of  bread  crumbs  boiled  in  one  gill 
of  milk;  to  this  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  two  of  melted 
butter,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  blended.  Take  off  and  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  stiff,  stir  carefully  into  the  mixture,  and  bake  15  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Cheese  Souffle. — Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan;  when 
it  melts  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth ;  add  a 
half-cup  of  milk,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  paprika; 
cook  two  minutes;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  cup 
of  grated  cheese,  but  take  it  off  the  fire  just  before  adding  them,  and 
when  you  stir  them  all  in  well  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  cold  add  the 
stifily  beaten  vi^hites  of  the  eggs,  turn  into  a  buttered  dish  and  place  im- 
mediately in  the  oven  and  bake  ^5  or  30  minutes.  Have  a  folded  napkin 
ready  to  wrap  around  the  dish  and  serve  it  immediately,  or  it  will  fall. 

Cheese  Sticks. — Mix  together  one  pint  grated  cheese,  one  pint  flour, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  two  scant  teaspoons  baking  po\yder,  a  little  salt 
and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Mix  with  milk  or  water  and  roll  thin  like  piQ 
crust.  Cut  into  strips  four  or  five  inches  long  and  nearly  an  inch  wide. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cheese  Straws. — One  cupful  of  grated  cheese  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butler  creamed  together;  two  slices  of  bread,  without  crust,  dried  in  oven 
and  rolled  fine.  Four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  pinch  of  salt,  dust 
of  red  pepper,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Cut  in  strips  and  bake  a 
delicate  brown. 

Cheese  Toast. — Grate  a  cupful  of  cheese,  and  lightly  mix  in  a  heaping 
saltspoonful  of  mustard,  a  half-saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  speck  of  cay- 
enne. Heap  this  on  thin  strips  or  triangles  of  buttered  toast,  place  them 
in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  moments,  and  serve  as  soon  as  the  cheese  begins 
to  melt.  Any  kind  of  a  thin  cracker  may  be  used  instead,  and  a  dusting 
of  paprika  over  each  piece  in  place  of  the  cayenne. 

Welsh  Custards. — One  cupful  of  dry  grated  cheese,  four  eggs,  one  cup- 
ful of  milk,  one  teaspoon ful  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  mixed  with  milk,  a 
bit  of  soda  size  of  pea,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne. 
Heat  the  milk,  stirring  in  the  soda,  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  flour 
mixture,  and  pour  scalding  hot  on  the  eggs  beaten  light  in  a  bowl.  Add 
the  cheese,  beat  up  for  a  minute,  pour  into  buttered  custard  cups  and 
bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for  20  minutes.     Thev  should  be  served  instantlv. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

AVARM      SUPPER      AND      BREAKFAST      DISHES. 

Anchovy  Toast. — Tcast  a  small  round  of  bread  for  each  person,  butter 
and  put  in  vegetable  dish.  Make  a  sauce  of  one  pint  of  milk  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  when  thickened  add  level  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
dash  of  cayenne  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  anchovy  essence  or  five 
anchovies  boned  and  pounded.     Pour  over  the  toast;    serve  hot. 

Arrowroot  Cream  Toast.-  —First  put  into  a  double  boiler  a  scant  pint 
of  rich  milk  and  a  teacupful  o*f  cream;  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point, 
then  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
arrowroot  wetted  in  a  little  milk  or  cream ;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  and 
let  it  boil  up.  Toast  light  slices  of  bread,  browning  evenly.  Put  two 
slices  at  a  time  into  the  sauce,  and  as  soon  as  they  soften  all  through, 
which  will  only  take  a  short  time,  put  in  a  covered  dish  kept  hot.  Pour 
a  little  sauce  over  each  layer,  and  serve  the  toast  while  very  hot. 

Golden  Cream  Toast. — Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  into  diamonds  and 
toast  to  a  pale  brown,  drying  slightly  in  the  oven  before  browning.  Make 
a  rich  white  sauce  of  a  pint  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dusting  of  mace  and 
a  light  dusting  of  pepper.  Cook  until  smooth,  add  the  grated  yolks 
of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  and  pour  over  the  toasted  bread. 

Baked  Toast. — Prepare  toast  in  the  ordinary  way,  and,  as  each  slice 
is  ready,  dip  quickly  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  then 
pack  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  well  with  salt,  and  cover  deep  with 
boiling  milk.  Bake  in  a  dish,  closely  covered,  for  15  minutes,  and  serve. 
The  toast  should  have  absorbed  all  the  liquid  without  getting  dry.  If 
you  can  spare  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  heat,  and  pour  over 
the  surface  just  before  sending  to  the  table.  The  baking  lends  smooth- 
ness and  richness  to  this  dish  not  to  be  found  in  milk  toast  prepared  in 
the  usual  way. 

Bread  Croquettes. — Rub  the  inside  of  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  through 
a  colander,  then  measure.  To  one  good  quart  add  one  pint  of  milk  and 
heat  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler.  As  soon  as  it  reaches  the  scalding 
point  take  it  off,  let  stand  for  a  moment,  then  add  one-half  of  a  cupful 
of  cleaned  currants,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  citron,  one-half  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  almonds  and 
the  beaten  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs.  Return  to  the  fire  and  stir  and  cook 
for  two  minutes,  then  turn  out  on  a  greased  dish  and  set  aside  until  cold. 
Form  carefully  into  small  cylinders,  dip  each  in  egg,  roll  in  fine  dried 
crumbs  and  fry  golden  brown  in  hot  fat.     Serve  with  a  foamy  sauce. 


190  THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

Cheese  Pie. — Cut  bread  into  one-third  inch  slices,  cutting  each  slice  in 
half.  Butter  a  shallow  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  bread,  then  a  layer 
of  soft  mild  cheese,  cut  in  one-eighth  inch  slices,  and  sprinkled  with  salt 
and  paprika  or  pepper.  Beat  two  eggs  slightly  and  add  one  cup  of  milk. 
Pour  over  the  bread  and  bake  until  the  cheese  is  soft,  which  will  take 
about  30  minutes. 

Hulled  Corn  au  Gratin. — For  one  quart  of  hulled  corn  prepare  a  pint 
of  rich  cream  sauce,  flavoring  it  with  Worcestershire  sauce  or  other 
condiments  to  make  it  piquant.  Put  the  sauce  and  corn  in  a  baking  dish 
or  individual  ramekins  in  alternate  layers,  sprinkle  the  top  with  grated 
cheese  and  a  dusting  of  paprika,  and  bake  until  well  browned  on  top. 

Noodles. — Beat  an  ^gg  slightly,  but  not  until  it  foams;  salt  it  to 
season  the  dough,  and  then  work  in  all  the  flour  the  egg  can  be  made 
to  take  up.  Take  the  dough  on  to  the  board  and  knead  in  flour  until  it 
is  stiff  and  smooth,  then  roll  out  as  thin  as  possible.  Let  the  sheet  of 
dough  dry  for  a  while,  but  roll  it  into  a  roll  like  a  jelly  roll  before  it 
gets  dry  enough  to  break  when  rolled;  slice  from  the  end,  and  shake  into 
strings.  The  thinner  the  dough  is  rolled,  and  the  finer  it  is  cut  the  better 
the  noodles  are.  A  very  thin,  sharp  knife  makes  the  work  of  cutting 
much  easier  and  insures  much  fi.ner  noodles.  The  directions  given  call 
for  one  tgg  as  a  basis,  but  the  method  of  making  is  exactly  the  same  if 
six,  or  a  dozen  eggs  are  used.  Three  medium-sized  eggs  will  make  a 
sheet  of  dough  20  inches  square  if  properly  rolled  out,  and  will  be 
enough  for  a  family  of  six  or  eight  hungry  people.  When  dry  enough 
to  roll  and  cut,  the  noodles  arc  dry  enough  to  cook,  but  they  may  be  kept 
for  hours  or  days,  after  they  are  cut. 

Cheese  Noodles. — Make  your  noodles  the  day  before  you  want  to  use 
them  and  shave  fine.  Drop  lightly  into  boiling  water  and  allow  them  to 
cook  15  minutes  over  a  hot  fire.  Do  not  let  them  simmer,  or  they  will 
turn  out  a  mushy  mass.  Drain  and  fill  a  rather  deep  pan  to  the  depth 
of  two  inches.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  them  enough 
sweet  milk  almost  to  cover.  Over  the  top  grate  cheese  to  the  depth  of 
half  an  inch,  cover  and  bake  one  hour,  removing  cover  the  last  15  min- 
utes unless  oven  is  too  hot. 

Rice  Croquettes. — To  one  tcacupful  of  boiled  rice,  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  butter,  a  beaten  tgg,  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,-  and  mix  well  to- 
gether. Mold  into  rolls,  or  small  cakes,  dip  into  tgg,  and  then  into  pow- 
dered cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  butter  or  drippings.  A  little  finely 
chopped  cold  meat  is  an  improvement;  it  should  be  mixed  with  the  rice 
and  egg  before  molding. 

Rice  Muffins. — One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  boiled  rice,  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  baking  powder.     Beat  the  sugar,  salt,  yolks  of  eggs  and  butter 


THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK.  191 

together,  add  the  milk  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter;  sift  the 
rice  in  lightly,  and  last  the  beaten  whites.     Bake  in  rings  30  minutes. 

Royal  Toast. — Put  bread  toasted  a  delicate  brown  in  a  square  shallow 
pan;  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  on  each  slice,  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar.  Arrange  in  layers,  and  pour  over  the  whole  enough  milk 
or  cream  to  half  fill  the  pan.  Cover  closely  and  set  in  a  slow  oven  until 
the  liquid  is  all  absorbed. 

Swiss  Toast. — Mash  one-half  box  of  berries,  but  not  too  fine;  sweeten 
one-quarter  cup  of  sugar,  then  cut  five  slices  of  stale  bread  as  for  toast- 
ing. Cover  each  slice  with  the  berries.  Retain  some  of  the  juice  so  as 
not  to  make  the  bread  too  soft.  Heat  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter in  a  large  frying  pan ;  put  the  slices  with  the  berries  on  them  carefully 
into  the  hot  butter  and  fry  slowly  until  the  bread  is  browned  on  the  un- 
derside, basting  the  berries  with  the  butter  while  in  the  pan.  Transfer  the 
bread  and  berries  to  a  hot  platter;  pour  the  rest  of  the  juice  over  them 
and  serve  immediately. 

Tomato  Toast. — This  can  often  be  made  from  stewed  or  scalloped  to- 
matoes left  over  from  dinner;  the  extra  juice  from  canned  tomatoes 
which  often  makes  them  seem  too  watery,  is  useful  for  the  toast.  The 
tomato  is  simmered  with  the  proper  flavoring,  strained  through  a  sieve, 
and  then  thickened  with  flour  and  butter  before  being  poured  over  the 
toast.  If  one  wishes  to  make  more  of  a  dish,  crisp  fried  bacon  may  be 
served  with  it,  or  a  spoonful  of  minced  ham  or  other  cooked  meat  may 
be  put  on  the  top  of  each  piece  of  toast  before  the  tomato  is  poured 
over  it. 

Creamed  Tomatoes. — Peel  several  tomatoes  and  cut  them  in  moderately 
thick  slices.  Fry  them  in  butter,  seasoning  them  as  they  are  frying  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Remove  them  carefully  to  a  platter,  leaving  the  shreds 
of  the  tomatoes  that  have  fallen  ofif.  Pour  into  the  pan  about  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  rich  milk  and  thicken  with  flour.  Pour  this  sauce 
over  the  tomatoes. 

Blueberry  Pancakes. — Sift  one  scant  pint  of  flour  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder  and  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  two  well-beaten 
eggs  with  2J/^  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk  and  thoroughly  blend  all  together. 
Grease  the  griddle,  drop  the  batter  on  in  large  spoonfuls  and  spread  a 
teaspoonful  of  blueberries  on  each,  pressing  into  the  cake.  Turn,  and 
when  brown  serve  with  butter  and  powdered  sugar. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. — One  pint  milk  scalded  and  cooled,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful salt.  When  lukewarm  add  one-fourth  of  a  yeast  cake  which  has 
been  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water ;  one  cup  buckwheat  flour  and  one 
cup  white  flour.  Let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  stir  in  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  tablespoonful  molasses.  Beat  vigorously 
before  cooking. 

Mixed   Buckwheat   Cakes. — Sift   together   two   cupfuls   of   buckwheat, 


192      •      THE    RURAL    COOK    BOOK. 

one  cupful  of  rolled  oats,  one  cupful  of  cornmeal,  one  scant  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Mix  to  a  pour  batter,  with  equal  parts  of  milk  and  water,  add 
one-third  of  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  cover  and  stand  in  a  warm 
place  over  night;  before  baking  add  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water.     These  are  good  and  easy  of  digestion. 

Crumb  Croquettes. — Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan 
and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  then  add  one  beaten  t^g.  Re- 
move from  the  fire  and  mix  in  bread  crumbs  until  the  mixture  is  thick. 
Make  into  balls  and  let  get  cold.  Roll  in  egg  and  crumbs ;  fry  in  deep 
fat  like  other  croquettes. 

Crumb  Pancakes. — Two  cupiuls  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda, 
two  cupfuls  stale  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  two  cupfuls  flour,  two  level 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Soak  bread  crumbs  in  the 
milk  over  night,  add  dissolved  soda ;  if  one  has  stale  Johnny  cake  a 
change  may  be  made  by  using  one  cupful  bread  crumbs  and  one  cupful 
Johnny  cake  crumbs.  In  the  morning  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  then  sift 
in  the  flour  and  baking  powder.  It  may  be  that  two  cupfuls  of  flour 
will  not  be  needed  to  make  a  suitable  batter;  use  just  enough. 

French  Pancakes. — Beat  five  eggs  very  light,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  and  enough  wheat 
tlour,  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  to  make  a  good 
batter.  About  a  quart  of  flour  will  be  needed.  Melt  a  little  butter  in  a 
large  frying  pan,  and  pour  the  batter  into  this.  When  brown  on  one 
side,  turn  carefully  and  brown  on  the  other.  When  done,  spread  quickly 
with  fruit  jelly,  and  roll  up  as  you  would  a  sheet  of  music.  Transfer 
carefully  to  a  very  hot  dish,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  or  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  ground  cinnamon,  and  serve  immediately. 

Flannel  Cakes. — One  cupful  of  Indian  meal,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  three 
of  boiling  milk,  one-fourth  of  a  yeast  cake,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  sugar.  Pour  the  boiling  milk  upon 
the  meal  and  butter;  let  it  cool;  then  add  the  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  the 
portion  of  yeast  dissolved  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Let  it 
rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  fry  as  you  would  griddle  cakes. 

Yeast  Flannel  Cakes. — Heat  q  half-pint  of  sweet  milk  and  into  it  put 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  butter,  let  it  melt,  add  a  half  pint  cold  milk 
and  the  well  beaten  yoXVis  of  two  eggs,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two 
tablespoonfuls  homemade  yeast,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Let 
rise  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  Before  baking  add  the  beaten  whites, 
which  have  been  kept  in  a  cool  place  during  the  night.  Be  sure  to  make 
batter  stiff  enough,  as  flour  must  not  be  added  after  it  has  risen.  These 
cakes,  half  cornmeal  and  half  wheat,  are-  very  nice. 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  776  9 


