• 


San  Anselmo 
Cook-Book 


BY  THE  LADIES  OF 


Saint  Anselm's  Church 

SAN  ANSELMO,  CALIFORNIA 
1908 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


BEAUTIFUL 

ESCALLE 

PARK 


Take 

Your  families  to  this 
Park  on  the  hillside  op- 
posite Escalle  Station. 

Grounds 

Newly  cleared,  trees 
trimmed,  and  winding 
trails  laid  out.  :: 

See 

The  tunnel;  when  tired 
rest  on  one  of  the  nu- 
merous rustic  seats  and 
enjoy  one  of  the  most 
magnificent    and   most 
Escalle,   picturesque  views  in  all 
Co.   Marin. 


SPECIAL 

ATTENTION 

Is  called  to  the  advertisements 
which,  appear  in  this  book.  They 
have  aided  materially  in  defraying 
the  cost  of  publication.  These  ad- 
vertisers are  all  personally  known 
by  the  committee  who  secured  their 
adds.,  and  are  worthy  of  patronage; 
and  it  is  earnestly  requested  by  the 
ladies  connected  with  the  publica- 
tion of  this  work  that  it  be  given 
them  on  every  possible  occasion. 


San  Anselmo 
Cook- Book 


BY   THE      . 


Ladies  of  Saint  AnselirTs 
Church 

/San  Anselmo,  California 

1908 


Cat  for  Agrtc.  library 


52 


CONTENTS      L>^' 


Pages. 

Beverages 145  to  1-18 

Bread,  Biscuits,  etc 7  to     14 

Cakes .103  to  128 

Candies    151  to  154 

Cheese  Dishes 77  to     78 

Eggs    15  to     18 

Entrees    67  to     76 

Fish    43  to     50 

For  the  Nursery 163  to  164 

For  the  Sick 155  to  162 

Icings  and  Filings    129  to  130 

Ices  and  Frozen  Desserts 131  to  132 

Meats 51  to     60 

Miscellaneous 165  to  168 

Pickles,  Jellies  and  Preserves 135  to  144 

Pies  and  Pastry 95  to  102 

Poultry    , 61  to  66 

Puddings  and  Desserts  . 79  to  94 

Salads    25  to     32 

Sandwiches 149  to  150 

Sauces   133  to  134 

Soup 19  to     24 

Vegetables    . , .  .   33  to     42 


642 


Bread,  Biscuits,  Etc. 


Bran  Bread — One  pint  of  table  bran,  one  pint  of 
graham  flour,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  slowly  for  two  hours  in 
a  loaf. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  No.  1 — Mix  and  sift  together  one 
cup  of  rye  meal,  one  cup  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  graham 
Hour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  three- 
fourths  of  a  tablespocfiful  of  soda  and  throe-fourths  of  a  cup 
of  molasses.  Mix  well.  Turn  into  a  well-buttered  mold, 
two-thirds  full.  Fit  on  a  well-buttered  cover  and  steam  three 
and  one-half  hours.  Turn  onto  a  dish  and  let  stand  in  a 
hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes  before  serving. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  No.  2 — One  and  one-half 
nips  of  corn  meal,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  Hour,  one  and  one- 
half  i-ups  of  sour  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one-half  cup  of  molasses  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
s<>da.  Salt.  Steam  four  hours.  This  is  a  real  good  recipe. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Allen. 

Corn  Bread — One  cup  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  flour, 
one-half  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Add  all  together  and  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Bake 
in  one  layer  mold ;  oven  moderate.  Will  bake  in  from  fifteen 
to  thirty  minutes. 

Brown  Bread  No.  3 — Three  cups  of  graham  flour, 
two  cups  of  corn  meal,  three  cups  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of 

syrup,  one  talilespoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda; 
mix  well,  put  in  mold  and  steam  three  hours. 

Mrs.  N.  J.  II. 

Gingerbread  No.  1 — One  cup  of  suirar.  one  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  ginger,  one  teaspoonfu]  of  cinnamon,  three  eggs,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  cup  of  sour  milk. 

Mrs.  R.  Leach. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


Gingerbread  No,  2 — Six  cups  of  flour,  three  cups 
of  molasses,  one  cup  of  cream,  lard  or  butter,  six  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
ginger.  Bake  in  long  pan  in  moderate  oven  about  fifty 
minutes.  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Gingerbread  No.  3 — One-half  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  molasses  and  one-fourth  cup  of  shortening; 
set  same  to  boil;  then  two  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sour 
milk,  one  egg,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  spice  to  taste. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Baright,  Larkspur. 

Graham  Bread  No.  1 — Two  and  one-half  cups  of 
boiling  water,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  three  cups  of  graham  flour,  three  cups  of 
white  flour  and  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  quarter  of 
a  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  or  a  cup  of  homemade  yeast. 

Mrs.   C.  R.   Gagan. 

Graham  Bread  No.  2 — Two  cups  of  graham  flour, 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  syrup,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water ; 
steam  for  three  hours.  Mrs.  W.  Moore,  S.  F. 

Baked  Indian  Bread — One  cup  of  molasses,  three 
cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  four  cups  of  sweet  milk, 
five  cups  of  meal,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  soda ;  bake  two  hours.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Raisin  Bread — One  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  one 
quart  of  liquid  (milk  and  water)  lukewarm,  one-half  pound 
of  seeded  raisins,  one-fourth  pound  of  currants,  one  level 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together ;  add 
salt  and  cinnamon,  then  the  liquid  into  which  the  yeast  has 
been  dissolved ;  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  so 
stiff  it  cannot  be  beaten  with  a  spoon.  When  all  is  thor- 
oughly mixed  turn  into  a  well-greased  baking  pan;  let  rise 
till  light  (from  three  to  five  hours),  and  bake  one  hour  in 
well  heated  oven.  Mrs.  II.  Coulter,  Sausalito. 

Scotch  Shortbread — Two  pounds  of  flour,  half  a 
pound  of  lard,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  pul- 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.,  For  carPets  and 

SAN  RAFAEL,   CAL. 


verized  sugar;  have  butter  and  lard  about  summer  heat. 
Take  all  the  flour  but  about  one-half  cupful  on  the  baking 
board,  mix  with  sugar,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  put 
butter  and  lard  in ;  then  mix  in  gradually  with  hands,  knead- 
ing hard ;  roll  out  on  remaining  flour  on  paper,  and  bake  in 
three  cakes  half  an  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven. 
The  baking  is  the  thing ;  it  should  take  twenty-five  or  thirty 
minutes.  Leave  in  pan  until  cold.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Biscuits  No.  1 — One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  and  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  sift 
well  together:  add  one  tablespoonful  of  leaf  lard  and  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  milk.  Bake  about  twelve  minutes. 

Mrs.  N.  Jones,  San  Anselmo. 

Butter  Biscuit — One  quart  of  flour,  one-half  a  cup  of 
lard,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mix  quite  soft ; 
bake  in  shallow  pan  slowly  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Do 
not  grease  the  pan. 

Steamed  Bread — One  and  one-half  cups  of  corn 
meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  syrup,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sour  milk  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  salt 
to  taste.  Steam  two  hours.  Mrs.  R.  T.  McGregor. 

Biscuits  No.  2 — One  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  enough 
milk  to  mix  for  rolling  out ;  put  a  teaspoonful  of  lard  or  but- 
ter in  pan  on  stove  to  melt ;  turn  biscuits  into  this  and  bake 
in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  X.  J.  H. 

Sour  Milk  Biscuit — Take  a  scant  quart  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar 
and  a  little  salt ;  sift  all  together  twice ;  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  lard  and  one  pint  of  sour  milk. 

Mrs.  W.  Moore,  S.  F. 

Southern  Batter-Bread  or  Egg  Bread — Two  cups  of 
white  Indian  meal,  one  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  three 
«ggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  two 
and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  or  enough  for  soft  batter,  one  tea- 


10  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

spoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  soda.  Stir  the  beaten  eggs  into 
the  milk,  then  the  meal,  salt,  butter ;  last  of  all  the  rice.  Beat 
well  three  minutes,  and  bake  quickly  in  shallow  pan. 

Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Zweibach — This  is  often  recommended  by  physicians 
for  young  children,  and  also  for  convalescents.  Dissolve 
two  yeast  cakes  in  one-half  cupful  of  scalded  milk,  and  when 
lukewarm  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  cupful 
of  bread  flour.  Cover,  and  let  rise  until  very  light,  then  add 
one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of 
melted  butter,  three  unbeaten  eggs  and  flour  enough  to 
handle.  Shape  the  same  as  finger  rolls  and  place  close  to- 
gether on  a  buttered  sheet  in  parallel  rows  two  inches  apart. 
Cover,  again  let  rise  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  When  cold 
cut  diagonally  in  half  inch  slices  and  brown  evenly  in  a  slow 
oven. 

To  Shape  Biscuit  as  Finger  Rolls — Shape  round  biscuit 
and  roll  with  one  hand  on  a  part  of  the  board  where  there 
is  no  flour,  until  of  the  desired  length,  care  being  taken  to 
make  smooth,  of  uniform  size  and  round  at  the  ends. 

Muffins  No.  1 — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
two  eggs,  one  scant  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  cream,  sugar  and  butter; 
add  eggs  well  beaten,  then  milk,  flour  and  baking  powder; 
add  baking  powder  to  flour  and  sift  twice.  This  makes 
eighteen  muffins.  It  also  makes  a  nice  layer  cake  with 
flavoring  added.  Miss  J.  Lawrence,  S.  F. 

Muffins  No.  2 — One  pint  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  butter,  then  add 
the  whites  well  beaten.  Sift  baking  powder  with  the  flour; 
mix  all  together  into  a  batter.  Bake  in  muffin  pans. 

Breakfast  Muffins — Set  a  rising  as  for  bread,  over  night. 
In  the  morning,  early,  warm  a  pint  of  milk  and  beat  into  the 
dough  sufficient  to  make  it  as  for  ordinary  muffin  batter; 
beat  well  for  five  or  ten  minutes  and  set  to  rise  for  breakfast. 
Bake  in  rings  on  a  very  hot  griddle,  and  turn  frequently,  to 
prevent  burning. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  11 

Corn  Muffins — Two    eggs  and    two    tablespoonfuls    of 
sugar  beaten  together;  add  one  and  one-half  teacupfuls  of 
corn  meal,  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  and  lastly  add  a    tablespoonful  or  two  of." 
melted  butter.  Mrs.  P.  J.  Haggarty. 

Date  Muffins — Mix  and  sift  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  whole  wheat  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder  and  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  yolks 
of  two  eggs  until  thick ;  add  one  cup  of  milk ;  mix  thorough- 
ly, then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff;  fold  into  mixture  one-half 
a  cup  of  dates  stoned  and  cut  into  small  pieces  and  floured. 
Bake  in  gem  pans  twenty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  A.  Moore,  San  Francisco. 

.  Graham  Muffins — One  quart  of  graham  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a 
little  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  butter,  two  eggs  and 
enough  milk  to  make  a  good  batter.  Bake  in  a  small  pan 
in  hot  oven. 

Oatmeal  Muffins — One  cup  of  oatmeal,  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  lard,  two  eggs  and  one 
pint  of  milk.  Sift  together  the  oatmeal,  flour,  salt  and 
powder;  rub  in  the  cold  lard;  add  beaten  eggs  and  milk; 
mix  smoothly  into  batter,  rather  thinner  than  cup  cake;  fill 
muffin  pans  two-thirds  full;  bake  in  good  hot  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Serve  at  once. 

Flour  Griddle  Cakes — Make  a  thick  batter  with  one 
quart  of  sour  milk  and  flour.  Let  it  stand  over  night  and 
in  the  morning  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  salt  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  warm  water.  Bake 
immediately. 

Flannel  Cakes  Without  Eggs — Two  cups  of  white  Indian 
meal,  two  quarts  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  yeast,  flour  for 
good  batter,  boiling  water,  a  little  salt.  Scald  meal  with 
a  pint  of  boiling  water;  stir  in  the  milk,  and  strain  through  a 
colander ;  then  add  the  flour  and  yeast ;  cover  and  let  the 
batter  stand  until  morning.  Salt,  and  if  at  all  sour,  stir  in. 
a  little  soda.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 


12  ADVERTISEMENTS 


A.  Bracker,  Mgr.  Phone  Suburban  1  2 

San  Anselmo 
Meat   Market 

Dealer  in 

All    Kinds   of   Fresh 
and  Salt  Meats 

'Only  First  Class  Meats  San  Anselmo,  Cal. 

.C.  Mingst  F.  Vonderheide 


Vonaerneiae 
Mingst 


Dealers  in 


Fancy  Groceries,  Wines 
and  Liquors 

Ross  Avenue  Telephone 

'San  Anselmo,  Cal.  Suburban  14 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


Bran  Gems.  —  Two  cups  of  bran,  one  cup  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder,  one  egg 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  added  last.  Put  in 
hot  gem  tins  and.  bake. 

Gems  —  Two  eggs  well  beaten,  about  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  sifted  flour  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder; 
beat  well  and  add  a  cup  of  milk  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter.  Bake  (in  warm,  greased  gen  pans)  about 
ten  minutes.  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Rice  Pancakes  —  Beat  two  eggs  into  about  a  cupful  of 
cold  boiled  rice,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
about  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  or  just  enough  to  hold 
rice,  and  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  milk.  Fry  in  drippings 
or  lard  on  hot  pan.  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Rolls  —  One  pint  of  milk,  three  large  spoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  a  little  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  and  the  yolk  of  one.  Mrs.  Briggs,  S.  A. 

Cinnamon  Egg  Toast  —  Toast  bread  and  dip  into  well 
beaten  egg,  then  fry  in  butter  and  dust  with  sugar  and  cin- 
namon; serve  hot,  well  buttered  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

French  Toast  —  Make  a  batter  of  two  eggs,  one-half  of  a 
cup  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch. 
Dip  thin  slices  of  bread  in  batter  and  fry  brown  in  a  well 
buttered  frying  pan.  Mrs.  Arthur  L.  Silling. 

Strawberry  Toast  —  One-third  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  one 
cup  of  sugar,  creamed  together,  and  well  mixed  with  one 
quart  of  strawberries  cut  up  with  a  knife.  Pour  the  whole- 
over  slices  of  French  toast  in  a  platter.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Silling 


14  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


Creamed  Eggs — '(President  McKinley's  favorite  dish)  — 
Melt  some  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  when  melted  add  onehalf 
teaspoonful  of  Tobasco  sauce,  same  quantity  of  salt,  pepper 
and  nutmeg  are  added;  two  pints  of  cream  are  then  poured 
into  the  pan;  then  the  whole  is  carefully  stirred  until  it 
•comes  to  a.  boil ;  then  the  eggs  are  poached  in  the  boiling 
cream.  (It  must  be  cream,  remember,  not  milk.)  Serve  on 
toast.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Omelet — Separate  three  eggs;  beat  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth;  beat  yolks.  Heat  half  a  cup  of  milk  to  it;  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  or  flour ;  then  stir  in  the  yolks  and 
add  lightly  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  a  good-sized  piece 
•of  butter  into  a  frying  pan.  When  hot  pour  in  the  mixture, 
cover  and  cook  from  five  to  seven  minutes ;  when  set  remove 
the  cover  and  place  pan  in  oven  to  brown  the  omelet.  Serve 
on  hot  platter. 

A  Delicious  Omelet— To  make. a  dainty_omele_t  requires 
•care  in  the  details  of  mixing  the  ingredients.  The  follow- 
ing of  these  directions  closely  will  result  in  a  rich  golden 
sponge  instead  of  the  usual  thin,  feathery  mass.  Fresh 
eggs  are  absolutely  essential.  Take  four  eggs,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  one-eighth  of  a  spoonful  of  white  pepper 
and  salt.  Separate  the  eggs  and  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth ;  beat  the  yolks,  add  the  water  and  beat  again.  Put 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  while  it  is 
heating  carefully  stir  the  yolks  into  the  beaten  whites,  add- 
ing the  seasoning.  Pour  into  the  hot  frying  pan  and  when 
the  underside  is  a  delicate  brown  place  in  a  hot  oven  to  set 
the  top.  The  moment  it  is  done  loosen  the  edges  from  the 
pan  with  a  knife,  fold  over  and  serve  qn  a  hot  platter  garn- 
ished with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  delicately  cut  and  fried 
slices  of  bacon.  Never  beat  and  mix  the  eggs  and  allow 
them  to  stand  for  even  five  minutes  before  cooking.  Do. 
not  slam  the  oven  door  shut,  for  the  jar  will  cause  the  omelet' 
to  fall.  To  make  fancy  omelets  spread  the  top,  before  fold- 


16 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Tillmann  &  Bendel 

Wholesale  Grocers 

Manufacturers,  Tobacconists,  Liquor 
Merchants,  Importers,  Exporters  and 
Distributers  : :  : : 

Front  and  Vallejo  Sts. 
San  Francisco         -         California 


Ferris  Hartm™        John  D.  Schroeder 
Telephone  Main  18 

Schroeder-Hartman   Co.. 
IMPORTERS 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Wine  and 
Liquor  Merchants 


703  FOURTH  ST. 


San  Rafael,  CaL 


Phone  Main  44  C.  H.  Keyes,  Pf  op. 

San  Anselmo   Fruit  and 
Poultry  Market 

Fruits,   Vegetables,    Poultry,    Etc. 

Fresh  Fish  Every  Friday 

Cheda  Bldg.       San  Anselmo,  Cal- 


Electric  Wiring 
a  Specialty 


Phone  S.  R, 

2201 


G.  W.  FOX 

Marin  Electric  Wo^ks 

Gas  and  Electric   Fixtures 

Motors,  Generators,  Etc. 

Every  description  of  Electric  Work 


710  Fourth  St. 


San  Rafael,  Cal. 


DRINK 

Tamalpias  Mineral  Water 

-AND- 

Borello  Bros.  Soda  Water 

Phone  San  Rafael  4901 
First  and  Hayes  Sts.       San  Rafael 


John  Lafargue,  Mgr.      Phone  Main  17 

Lafargue  French 
Laundry 

Offices:  623  Fourth  St. 
and  614-616  Third  St. 

SAN  RAFAEL        -  CALIFORNIA 


Levaggi,  Granucci  &  Co. 

Importers  of  the 
Purest  Olive  Oil 
G  =5 

412  to  420  Front  St.    Near  Clay  St. 
San  Francisco,        -         California 


Saddle  Horses  Stylish  Turnouts 

Four-in-hands 

Marin  County  Stables 

D.  R.  Geary,  Prop. 

Special  attention  to  Bearding  and 
Transient  Horses 


Opposite  Court 
House 


Phone  Main  215 
San  Rafael,  Cal. 


BEGLEY     BROS. 

BUTCHERS 

Nothing  but  Choicest  Meats  kept. 
Phone  San  Rafael  109 


Second  and  B  Sts. 


San  Rafael 


_GO  TO— 

Mrs.  Needhams 

FOR 

Johnson's  Fine  Ice  Cream 
San  Anselmo 


CALL  ON  THE  ICEMEN  AT 

Marin  Co.  Ice 
Company 


B  and  Julia  Sts. 


San  Rafael 


Phone  Main  97  Opp.  Court  House 

W.  Grandjean  &  Co. 

Successor  to  San  Rafael  Creamery  Co. 
Butter,  Eggs,  Milk  and  Cream 

525  Fourth  St.,    Opp.  Courthouse 

San  Rafael,  Cal. 

Branch  Creamery  San  Anselmo. 
Telephone  Sub.  43 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  17 

ing,  with  finely  chopped  chicken,  ham,  parsley,  creamed  peas 
or  jelly. 

Ham  Omelet — Chop  bits  of  cold  ham  finely ;  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  beat  two  or  three  eggs  and  stir  with 
them  over  a  good  fire.  Pieces  of  beef  may  be  used  in  the 
same  fashion.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Eggs  Spanish  Style  No.  1 — Take  firm,  fresh  tomatoes  of 
good  size ;  cut  off  the  top  and  scoop  out  enough  of  inside  to 
contain  an  egg.  Crack  an  egg  carefully  into  the  tomato  with- 
out breaking  yolk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little 
butter  and  put  in  oven.  When  the  egg  is  cooked  the  tomato 
will  be  cooked  also.  Mrs.  G.  Faubel,  S.  F. 

Spanish  Eggs  No.  2 — For  this  dish  there  will  be  required 
six  eggs,  one  large  raw  tomato,  one  generous  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper  and  a  slice  of  onion.  Rub  a  slice  of 
onion  over  the  inside  of  the  frying  pan.  Pare  the  tomato 
and  cut  ii  into  bits;  then  put  it  into  the  frying  pan,  with  the 
butter,  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Beat 
the  eggs  well  and  at  the  end  of  five  minutes  put  them  into 
tlie  pan  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  constantly  until  the 
eggs  begin  to  thicken  like  scrambled  eggs;  then  pour  the 
mixture  into  a  warm  dish  and  serve  at  once.  M.  P. 

Stuffed  Eggs  No.  1 — Boil  quantity  of  eggs  needed  fifteen 
minutes,  then  remove  shells.  Cut  in  halves  and  remove 
yolks ;  slice  a  little  off  of  bottoms  so  they  will  stand  in  plat- 
ter. Mash  yolks,  then  add  chopped  parsley  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  oil,  one  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  salt  and  little  vinegar;  then  fill  the  whites  with- 
this.  Mrs.  P.  J.  Haggarty. 

Stuffed  Eggs  No.  2 — Take  hard  boiled  eggs  and  cut 
lengthwise ;  take  yolks  and  mash  them ;  add  salt,  pepper  and 
some  olives  cut  fine ;  mix  all  together  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Fill  whites  with  mixture  and  put  together  with  tooth- 
picks.  W.  L. 


18  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


SOU  PS 


A  Good  Soup  for  Friday — One  bunch  of  French  carrots, 
three  medium  sized  onions  and  one  handful  of  minced  pars- 
ley. Boil  two  hours,  then  strain ;  add  one  cup  of  good  milk 
to  the  liquid  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and 
:salt.  If  thick  soup  is  desired  a  little  flour  can  be  mixed  in 
the  milk  and  boiled  in  the  stock,  or  a  few  of  the  carrots  can 
be  mashed  and  added  t3  the  liquid. 

Mrs.  H.  Coulter,  Sausalito. 

Asparagus  Soup — Take  water  -that  asparagus  has  been 
boiled  in  and  thicken  with  flour  to  make  it  creamy;  add  a 
-cup  of  milk  and  a  lump  of  butter.  Cream  of  celery  soup 
.and  cream  of  onion  soup  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

Mrs.  G.  B.  Hund. 

Barley  Soup — After  washing  the  soup  meat  put  it  into 
the  stewpan,  just  cover  with  water  and  take  off  the  scum 
when  it  rises.  Wash  and  pick  over  half  a  pound  of  pearl 
barley;  put  this  with  the  meat,  and  a  small  onion  peeled  and 
•cut  in  small  pieces;  flavor  with  catsup;  add  a  little  pepper 
and  salt ;  add  a  little  more  water,  and  cook  until  the  barley 
is  soft.  You  may  add  any  vegetables  liked;  celery  root 
gives  a  good  flavor  to  any  soup.  Cook  the  barley  about  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

Clam  Soup — Boil  one  quart  of  clams  in  the  shell,  or  one 
pint  of  opened  clams.  Strain  the  clam  water ;  heat  one  pint 
of  milk,  thicken  with  two  tablespoonf uls  of  cracker  crumbs ,; 
-flour  or  corn  starch.  Add  the  clam  water  to  thickened  milk 
.and  season  with  pepper  and  butter.  G.  H. 

Cracker  Soup — For  Invalids — Pour  very  hot  milk  over 
.--".  bowl  of  crackers,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup — Three  pounds  of  asparagus ; 
«ut  off  tips ;  cut  up  stalks  in  small  pieces  and  boil  gently  for 
a  couple  of  hours  in  three  pints  of  water  with  onion,  bay 
leaf  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  strain  through  colander; 


20  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

add  one  quart  of  milk  and  thicken  with  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  blended  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
add  green  tips  and  cook  gently  fifteen  minutes ;  stir  in  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs  and  serve.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup — Cook  one  head  of  celery  stalks 
and  light  leaves  in  a  pint  of  water  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Mash  the  celery  and  put  through  a  puree  strainer;  add  a 
pint  of  scalded  milk  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk;  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  simmer  ten  minutes. 
Just  before  serving  add  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream  writh 
small  pieces  of  browned  croutons.  Mrs.  Will  Larkins. 

Excellent  Cream  of  Tomato  Soup — Boil  twelve  ripe  to- 
matoes or  use  one  can  of  tomatoes ;  strain  and  -add  one  onion, 
one  bay  leaf,  a  dash  of  cayenne  or  two  red  pepper  pods  and 
two  cloves;  simmer  half  an  hour  and  add  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  blended  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
then  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  bicarbonate  of 
soda,  and  while  foaming  add  three  pints  of  scalding  milk  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.   R.  Leach. 

Family  Soup — Take  a  piece  of  beef  shin,  a  veal  bone, 
three  mutton  shanks,  a  small  piece  of  liver,  one  onion,  two 
cloves,  bay  leaf,  a  half  bunch  of  French  carrots,  one  turnip 
sliced,  half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  three  small  red  peppers  and 
salt  to  taste;  add  five  quarts  of  cold  water.  Simmer  slowly 
several  hours;  strain  and  serve. 

Potato  Soup — Take  ten  small  potatoes;  boil  and  mash;: 
to  a  quart  of  milk  add  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter;  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste ;  boil ;  then  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour ;  flavor  with  celery ;  watch  carefully  that  it  does  not 
get  too  thick.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Spring  Soup — Boil  one  cup  of  peas,  one  cup  of  asparagus- 
tips  and  half  a  cup  of  carrots  in  separate  waters,  until  ten- 
der ;  drain  and  set  aside  to  add  to  the  soup.  Put  all  together 
the  liquor  in  which  the  vegetables  were  cooked,  and  add 
enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  quart ;  in  this  cook  for  fif- 
teen minutes  two  stalks  of  celery,  two  green  onions  and  a 
small  sprig  of  parsley;  strain,  return  to  the  fire;  add  one 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  21 


Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co. 

SAN  RAFAEL,  CAL.  matting 


pint  of  scalded  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  draw  the 
saucepan  to  the  back  of  the  stove.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two 
_  _>  :  add  half  a  pint  of  cream  :  dilute  with  a  little  of  the  hot 
soup,  and  stir  into  the  rest  of  the  soup.  Do  not  allow  it  to 
boil  after  adding  the  eggs  or  it  will  curdle.  Add  the  pre- 
pared vegetables  and  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  minced  chervil. 
Serve  at  once.  G.  H. 

Tomato  Soup  No.  1  —  Put  three  pints  of  tomatoes,  stewed, 
strained  and  sweetened,  to  two  quarts  of  beef  stock;  add 
an  onion;  salt  and  pepper.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Tomato  Soup  No.  2  —  One  can  of  tomatoes,  one  pint  of 
milk,  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  butter  size  of  a  walnut. 
Boil  tomatoes  soft,  about  half  an  hour  ;  strain  through  sieve, 
pouring  water  through  to  prevent  waste;  return  to  stove; 
let  it  come  to  a  boil  :  stir  in  a  little  soda,  then  add  milk  and 
seasoning;  put  the  butter  in  when  read}'  to  serve. 

Tomato  Soup  No.  3  —  Put  a  can  of  tomatoes,  a  slice  of 
onion,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  blade  of  mace  to  simmer  for  ten  min- 
utes. Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler;  when  hot 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  three  of  flour  rubbed 
together.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick;  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper;  strain  the  tomatoes; 
r.dd  half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda;  stir  and  add  the 
milk.  Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  G. 

Turnip  and  Rice  Soup  —  Peel  and  wash  as  many  turnips 
as  desired  and  put  them  in  a  granite  kettle  with  a  lump  of 
butter  and  sufficient  water  to  allow  them  to  simmer  gently 
until  tender.  Pass  through  a  fine  sieve  ;  return  to  the  kettle  ; 
add  a  pint  of  milk  and  one-half  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice  ;  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  sugar;  let  simmer  for 
twenty  minutes  and  then  add  a  cup  of  cream..  Serve  on 
croutons.  Mrs.  M.  Briggs,  S.  A. 

White  Wine  Soup  —  Boil  one  chicken  and  a  piece  of  veal 
down  to,  two  quarts  of  stock  ;  season  with  a  small  piece  of 


22  ADVERTISEMENTS 


Phone  Suburban  12  Reasonable  Prices 

San  Anselmo  Fruit  Market 

D.  Antone,    Proprietor 

Fresh  Fruits,  Vegetables,  Poultry,  Olive  Oil,  Italian  Paste 

Fresh  Fish  on  Fridays 
Opposite  Station  San  Anselmo,  Cal. 

PIONEER  BILLIARD  PARLOR 

Col.  J.  B.  Stubbs,  Prop. 
FINE  CIGARS    AMP    TOBACCO 

Ross  Avenue  San  Anselmo 


San     Anselmo    Nursery 

B.  BRENNFLECK,  Manager 

I  keep  constantly  on  hand  a  large  stock 
of  Roses,  Ferns  and  Palms,  guaranteed 
Excellent  Value  ::  ::  ::  :: 


JOHN  McNABOE  P.  A.  BUCKLEY 

BUCKLEY  &  CO, 

LARKSPUR,  MARIN,  CO. 
Choicest  Teas  and  Coffees,  Family  Wines 

and  Liquors,  Fresh  Ranch  Eggs  and  Fancy          Staple  and    FattCV 
Creamery  Butter  a  Specialty,  Cooked  Meats  r>nt\f>mmmmi^ 

and  Delicacies.  GROCERIES 

Main  Stores  1895,  1897,  1899  UNION  ST,  SAN  FRANCISCO 
TELEPHONE  ESCALLE  POSTOFFICE  LARKSPUP 

LIMERICK  INN 

— AT— 
Escalle's  Summer  Gardens 

Lunches  of  all  Kinds  N  BIEGEL,  Proprietor 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


carrot  and  of  turnip,  and  put  away  to  cool.  In  the  morning, 
remove  the  grease.  Then  take  one  quart  of  milk,  some  cream 
if  possible,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace  and  heat  to  boiling  point. 
Mix  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  add  to  milk,  slowly.  When  ready  to- 
serve  put  milk  and  the  stock  together  and  let  them  come  to 
a  boil.  Put  in  a  tureen  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  light- 
ly, one-half  cupful  of  sherry  wine,  one  teaspoonful  of  celery 
salt,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  soup  over  this, 
which  will  make  it  foamy.  Mrs.  Briggs. 

German  Noodles  —  One  cup  of  flour,  two  eggs,  about  one- 
tablespoonful  of  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix,  roll  out 
and  let  partly  dry;  then  roll  and  cut  very  fine.  Set  away 
to  dry  thoroughly  before  using.  Mrs.  G.  Faubel. 

Noodles  for  Soup  —  Beat  one  egg  lightly;  add  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  dough  :  roll  out  into  a  very 
thin  sheet  ;  dredge  with  flour  to  keep  from  sticking,  then  roll 
up  tightly.  Begin  at  one  end  and  shave  down  fine  like  cab- 
bage for  slaw. 


24  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


SALADS 


To  make  salad  dressing,  says  the  proverb :  "Four  persons 
are  wanted — A  spendthrift  for  oil,  a  miser  for  vinegar,  a 
counsellor  for  salt  and  a  madman  to  stir  it  up." 

Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing — One  egg  well  beaten,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  mustard  dissolved  in  water, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  corn  starch.  Boil  until  thick. 

Cream  Dressing — One-half  of  a  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
one-half  of  a  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  one-fourth  of  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten,  two  and  one- 
half  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of 
vinegar  and  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  cream.  Mix  ingredi- 
ents in  order  given,  adding  the  vinegar  very  slowly.  Cook 
over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thick- 
ens; strain  and  cool.  Miss  Laura  Harris. 

French  Mayonnaise — Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  vinegar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  beater ;  one  pint 
of  olive  oil  to  be  added,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  while  beating. 
This  will  keep  for  a  week  if  kept  in  a  cool  place  and  well 
covered.  Mrs.  O.  Sirard. 

Mayonnaise  Salad  Dressing — The  yolk  of  one  egg,  raw  ; 
stir  into  this  all  the  olive  oil  it  will  hold,  in  as  fine  a  stream 
as  possible.  Season  with  lemon  juice,  cayenne  pepper,  salt 
and  mustard. 

Parisian  Salad  Dressing — Mix  one-half  of  a  cupful  of 
olive  oil,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one-half  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  finely 
chopped  Bermuda  onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely 
chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  four  red  peppers 
and  eight  green  peppers.  Cover  and  let  stand  for  one  hour. 
Then  shake  and  stir  vigorously  for  five  minutes.  The  red 


26  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

and  green  peppers  are  the  small  ones  found  in  the  pepper 
sauce,  which  may  be  bought  at  all  first-class  grocers. 

M.  H. 

Salad  Dressing — Five  even  teaspoonfuls  of  mus- 
tard, four  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  small  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil.  Beat  these 
thoroughly,  then  add  four  well-beaten  eggs,  twelve  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  and  seven  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar ;  cook 
in  double  boiler  until  creamy,  stirring  well;  when  taken  off 
fire,  stir  a  little  more  to  keep  from  curdling.  Will  keep  if 
kept  air  tight.  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Sarah-lad  Dressing — We  call  it  Sarah  because  we  are 
not  familiar  enough  to  say  Sail — One  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  vinegar, 
fill  cup  with  water,  stir  into  mustard  and  flour  until  all 
lumps  are  dissolved.  Then  add  one  egg,  white  and  yolk 
beaten  separately,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  pinch  of  black  pepper,  one  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  one  cup  of  sour 
cream  adds  to  the  flavor,  as  well  as  to  the  bulk.  Cook  in  a 
steamer,  stirring  constantly,  until  it  thickens.  When  pre- 
pared as  above  this  dressing  will  keep  a  week. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  Marshall. 

Combination  Salad— Boiled  potatoes  cut  up  small,  mixed 
with  a  chopped  onion,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  and  chopped  celery.  Season  to  taste  and  place  on 
center  of  dish.  Garnish  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Scald, 
peel  and  remove  cores  of  tomatoes  (one  for  each  person) 
and  set  on  ice;  take  cold  string  beans  or  peas,  mix  with 
mayonnaise  and  chopped  onion  and  fill  tomatoes ;  place  on 
lettuce  around  potatoes ;  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs, 
sliced  beets  and  mayonnaise.  Excellent  for  a  cold  meat 
dinner.  Mrs.  R.  L. 

Celery  and  Pepper  Salad — Lettuce  hearts  shaped  into 
fairly  good  sized  balls  ;fill  inside  with  a  mixture  of  celery  and 
Spanish  red  peppers ;  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  R.  L. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  27 

Cucumber  Salad — Peel  two  medium-sized  cucumbers  and 
cut  them  into  halves  lengthwise,  taking  out  the  seeds.  Place 
in  cold  unsalted  water;  let  them  remain  one  hour.  When 
ready  to  serve  peel  two  small  tomatoes  and  chop  rather 
coarse;  chop  also  one  pint  of  wratercress;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  drain  the  cucumbers ;  wipe  dry ;  add  a  few  drops 
of  onion  juice  or  a  little  onion  to  mixture;  then  fill  cucum- 
bers with  the  mixture  and  lay  on  lettuce  leaves.  Squeeze 
over  the  mixture  the  juice  from  one  lemon  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  olive  oil  and  serve  at  once..  W.  L.,  San  Anselmo. 

Cold  Meat  Salad — Cut  cold  meat  into  very  thin  slices; 
-chop  four  anchovies  free  from  bone,  one  small  onion,  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  parsley.  Mix  in  a  salad  bowl  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one  tablespoonful  of  mild  vinegar, 
French  mustard,  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  and  let  stand  two 
hours,  then  serve  garnished  with  parsley  and  pickles. 

G.  II. 

East  India  Salad — Work  two  ten-cent  cream  cheeses  un- 
til smooth,  and  moisten  with  one-fourth  cup  each  of  milk 
and  cream.  Add  one-half  cup  of  grated  Young  America 
cheese,  one-half  cup  of  heavy  cream  beaten  until  stiff  and 
one-half  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatine  soaked  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  hot  water.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  paprika, 
and  turn  into  a  border  mold  first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Re- 
move from  the  mold  and  fill  the  center  with  lettuce  leaves, 
dressed  with  a  French  dressing  to  which  curry  powder  is 
added ;  this  dressing  is  made  by  mixing  one  and  one-half 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  curry 
powder  and  white  pepper,  one-half  cupful  of  olive  oil  and 
one-third  of  a  cupful  of  vinegar.  G.  H. 

Fish  Salad — Six  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  small 
cubes,  two  onions  and  one  cucumber  sliced,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  minced  parsley,  two  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  fine,  twelve 
sardines.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  writh  mayonnaise  dressing. 

L.  M. 

Flower  Salad — Arrange  a  fringe  of  parsley  on  the  outer 
rim  of  each  plate.  Then  a  ring  of  very  dark  slices  of  beet, 
moistened  with  plain  mayonnaise  dressing.  The  next  ring 


28  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

should  be  of  pink  beets,  with  a  bit  of  whipped  cream  in  the 
dressing.  Fill  the  center  with  lighter  beets  and  cream.  In 
the  very  center  rice  and  a  bit  of  cooked  yolk  of  egg.  G.  H. 

Hygia  Salad  Dressing — Yolks  of  t\vo  eggs  beaten  very 
stiff;  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
olive  oil  very  slowly,  beating  hard  all  of  the  time  until  they 
have  been  added  and  are  quick  thick.  Then  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  lastly,  one 
cup  of  whipped  cream.  Whip  all  together  until  very  stiff 
and  set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  J.  N. 

Celery  and  Walnut  Salad — Cut  celery  into  half-inch 
pieces;  to  two  parts  of  celery  add  one  part  of  walnuts- 
broken  into  pieces,  and  enough  mayonnaise  to  moisten  it. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Mrs.  W.  Moore,  S.  F. 

Lettuce  Sandwiches — Delicious  for  afternoon  tea— Take 
the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  and  pass  them  through 
a  sieve;  then  mix  with  a  little  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  vin- 
egar; also  a  little  tarragon  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  this  to  a 
paste  and  spread  on  both  sides  of  thin  slices  of  bread ;  place 
the  green  part  of  lettuce  leaves  011  both  sides ;  cut  into  neat 
squares.  Mrs.  G.,  Ross. 

Mushroom  Salad — Two  cans  of  mushrooms;  boil  until 
tender,  which  will  take  about  five  minutes ;  cut  in  small 
pieces;  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  pour  over  them 
(mixture  of  vinegar  and  oil)  one  tablespoonful  of  oil  to 
three  of  vinegar.  Let  stand  two  hours.  When  ready  to 
serve  add  one-half  quantity  of  celery,  cut  in  pieces  the  same 
size  as  mushrooms  and  pour  over  all  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch. 

Nut  Salad — (Simple) — Two  cups  of  English  walnut 
meat,  one  cup  of  chopped  celery  and  one  head  of  lettuce. 
Blanch  nuts  by  pouring  over  them  boiling  water ;  let  stand 
five  minutes,  when  skins  may  be  removed  by  using  a  pointed 
knife.  Arrange  nuts  and  celery  on  lettuce  leaves  and  dress 
with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Mrs.  Will  Larkins. 

Nut  Salad  No,  2 — One  cup  of  apples,  cut  in  dice,  one 
cup  of  shredded  celery  and  one  cup  of  walnuts  mixed  writh. 
mayonnaise ;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Mrs.  N.  Jones. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  29 

Pimento  Salad  With  Shrimps — Take  a  can  of  pimentoes 
and  fill  each  pimento  with  shrimps,  chopped  olives  and  cel- 
ery chopped  fine;  place  on  lettuce  leaf  and  put  mayonnaise 
•on  top. 

Potato  Salad  No.  1 — Any  amount  of  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes, two  or  three  chopped  onions  and  chopped  parsley.  Heat 
together  two  eggs,  one  small  cup  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  salt,  sugar,  dry  mustard  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 
per. When  thick  take  from  the  fire  and  cool;  cut  the  pota- 
toes into  small  pieces;  add  the  onions  and  parsley,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice; 
-add  to  the  above  mixture  one  quart  of  whipped  cream  and 
pour  over  the  potatoes  and  mix  well.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Potato  Salad  No.  2 — Six  medium-sized  potatoes,  six 
:stalks  of  celery,  one  small  onion  and  three  whites  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs ;  chop  all  together ;  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter with  the  three  hard-boiled  yolks  and  beat  smooth;  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half 
.a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  dash  of  pepper;  mix  well. 

Mrs.  Briggs,  S.  A. 

Salmon  Salad  No.  1 — With  a  can  of  salmon  a  handsome 
and  rich  salad  is  prepared.  Take  out  the  salmon  in  neat, 
firm  bits  and  lay  them  in  a  dish  of  cold  spiced  vinegar  while 
the  tomatoes  are  prepared.  Cut  off  the  stem  and  hollow 
out  with  a  spoon  to  make  a  neat,  firm  cup.  Medium-sized 
tomatoes  should  be  used.  Mix  a  little  salt,  cayenne  and  vin- 
egar with  or  without  oil,  as  preferred,  and  sprinkle  the  to- 
matoes well,  then  fill  with  the  salmon.  Cucumbers  cut  in 
thin,  paper-like  slices  may  be  mixed  with  the  fish.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise.  L.  M. 

Salmon  Salad  No.  2 — Place  the  contents  of  one  can  of 
salmon  in  a  large  dish;  add  to  this  one  pint  of  cracker 
crumbs,  two  hard-boiled  eggs  and  one  pint  of  vinegar;  mix 
well;  let  stand  ten  minutes  or  more,  then  serve. 

Sardine  Salad — Cover  a  large  plate  of  lettuce  leaves 
with  boiled  white  fish,  flaked,  leaving  an  inch  margin ;  split 
:six  sardines,  taking  out  the  bone,  and  lay  them  on  the  fish, 


30 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Telephone  'Escalle' 

Peter  Escalle 

Marin  County  Agent 
for  the  celebrated 

Olympia  Be  •  r  and  Escalle 
Wines 

Orders   Called    for  and  Delivered 


Rice  s     Larkspur 


Exp 


ress 


Furniture  Stored  and 
Shipped  to   all   Parts 
Livery  and  Boarding 


Stables 


Tel.  Main  71 


Phone  Main  Highest   Grade 

76  Sanitary  Plumbing 

P.  ZARO 

Plumbing  and  Tinning 

Promptly  attended  to 

COSTA  BUILDING 

Larkspur,  Marin  Co.,    -    California 


Hotel    Larkspur 

Jas.  A.  McCormick,    Prop. 

First  Class 
Family  Resort 

Larkspur,  Mann  Co.,       California 


Wm.  Striiiga  S.  Marilli 

Stringa  &  Marilli 

Choicest 

Wines,  Liquors  and 
Cigars 

Summer  gardens  for  refreshments 
Larkspur  Marin  Co. 


PRICE'S 
Fine    Candies 

Ice   Cream  and 
Coffee  Parlor 

Tamales  Served         Larkspur,  Cal. 


Telephone  Main  84 

E  }.  BERGIN 

Staple   Groceries 

Agent  for  San 
Francisco  Papers      Larkspur,  Cal. 


MISS.  S.  F.  FOLEY 

Agency  for  Great 
American  Teas  and  Coffee 

Postoffice  Bldg.  Larkspur 


Main  4733 


H.  F.  BAIN  J.  P.  LAIN 

Bain  Bros. 

Dealers  in  all  kinds  of 

Wood  and  Coal,  Hay 
and  Grain 

LARKSPUR,  CALIFORNIA 


E.  H.  Con  way 

PLUMBING 

306  B  Street  San  Rafael,  Cal. 


Mrs.     R 


ansom  s 

ICE  CREAM    PARLORS 
Candies,  Etc. 

Sail  Anselmo,          ::          California- 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  31 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.  For  shades  and 

SAN  RAFAEL,  CAL.  BraSS  Rods 


heads  in  the  center,  and  spread  around  to  form  a  disc.  Put 
a  little  parsley  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  at  the  heads,  and 
011  the  fish  between  each  two  sardines  put  a  generous  tea- 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise.  Slice  a  lemon,  cut  each  slice  in 
half,  and  garnish  the  edge  of  the  dish,  the  rind  lying  on  the 
lettuce.  G.  H. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad — Peel  six  small  tomatoes,  cut  a 
slice  trom  the  stem  end  of  each,  remove  the  soft  insides, 
sprinkle  the  inside  with  salt  and  let  stand  inverted  thirty 
minutes.  Mash  half  a  ten-cent  cream  cheese,  add  six 
shopped  pimolas,  one  tablespoonful  finely  chopped  parsley, 
one  tablespoonful  tomato  pulp,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonfuL 
dry  mustard  and  enough  French  dressing  to  moisten  it.  Fill 
the  tomato  cases  with  this  mixture  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  M.  H. 

Veal  Salad — Remove  bones,  fat  and  gristle  from  veal; 
cut  meat  crosswise  of  the  grain  in  thin  shavings,  possibly 
about  half  an  inch  square ;  to  one  pint  of  shaved  meat  add 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped,  four  crisp,  tender  stalks  of 
celery  cut  small,  two  small  heads  of  lettuce  finely  shredded, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  add  mayonnaise  dressing.  Lamb 
is  also  nice  this  way.  E.  W. 

Walnut  Salad — One  cup  of  chopped  apples,  one  cup  of 
chopped  walnuts  and  one  cup  chopped  celery,  well  mixed. 
Place  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  R.  L. 

Watercress  and  Apple  Salad — Use  only  crisp  watercress ;. 
stand  half  an  hour  in  cold  water,  wipe  dry  and  arrange  in? 
salad  bowl ;  add  a  few  slices  of  thinly  cut  apples  and  finely 
chopped  hard-boiled  eggs;  mix  with  French  dressing. 

French  Dressing — One  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  to  three- 
of  oil,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper;  mix  oil,  pepper  and  salt  together;  stir  the- 
vinegar  in  slowly.  Mrs.  Drummond,  S.  F. 


32  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


VEGETABLES 


Baked  Asparagus — Beat  well  four  eggs;  add  two  onions, 
half  a  head  of  garlic  and  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine,  one 
cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  add  about  four  pounds 
of  asparagus  tips  chopped  fine.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  one-half  hour.  Mrs.  E.  Decham. 

Cabbage,  German  Style — Slice  red  cabbage  thin,  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  let  soak  twenty  minutes;  then  drain. 
Put  one  quart  in  a  stewpan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of 
finely  chopped  onion  and  a  few  gratings  each  of  nutmeg  and 
cayenne.  Cover,  and  cook  until  the  cabbage  is  tender,  then 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  one-half  of  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  cook  five  minutes. 

Fried  Cauliflower — Boil  cauliflower  in  salted  water; 
drain  and  fry  in  butter  until  a  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  G.  B.  Hund. 

To  Cook  Corn— Put  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  into  the 
water,  no  salt ;  when  it  boils  put  corn  into  the  water  and  boil 
three  minutes.  It  will  be  white  and  tender. 

Mrs.  G.  B.  Hund. 

Corn  Pudding — Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch 
with  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  stir  over  hot  water  until  it 
thickens;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  can  of  corn 
pulp,  or  an  equal  amount  of  corn  scraped  from  the  cob,  salt, 
pepper  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Bake  in  a  pan 
surrounded  by  boiling  water  until  the  center  is  firm.  Whip 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  into  which  a  little  salt  has  been 
sprinkled,  to  a  stiff  froth.  Spread  this  over  the  top  of  pud- 
ding, sprinkle  it  wkh  chopped  red  peppers  and  place  in  a 
cool  oven  until  the  meringue  is  set.  Serve  as  a  vegetable. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  W. 

Creole  Succotash — Wash  six  green  peppers,  remove  the 
seeds  and  white  membrane,  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Cook  steadily  for  twenty  minutes,  then  drain  and  chop  fine. 


34  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Mix  a  quart  of  canned  corn  and  the  minced  peppers  and  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Toss 
and  stir  until  very  hot,  then  pour  in  a  large  cup  of  well- 
seasoned  and  thickened  tomato  sauce ;  bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  serve. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant  No  2 — Select  a  medium-sized  egg 
scrape  out  all  the  inside  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little 
minced  ham  or  any  kind  of  meat;  cover  with  water  and  boil 
until  soft ;  drain  off  the  water ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  , a,  grated 
onion,  salt  and  pepper,  one  egg  well  beaten ;  stuff  each  half 
of  hull  with  the  mixture ;  add  a  small  lump  of  butter  to  each 
and  bake  twenty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Follows,  San  Anselmo. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant  No.  2 — Select  a  merium-sized  egg 
plant  and  boil  it  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  it  out  and  lay 
it  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Cut  it  in  half  lengthwise, 
scoop  out  the  inside,  leaving  the  outside  by  the  shell  at  least 
half  an  inch  thick.  Make  ready  a  forcemeat  of  the  pulp  of 
the  egg  plant  and  the  pulp  of  three  or  four  raw  tomatoes 
chopped  fine.  Mix  this  with  a  tablespoonful  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  at  discre- 
tion, or  beaten  egg  and  half  a  cup  of  good  gravy.  With 
this  mixture  fill  the  two  halves  of  the  egg  plant,  lay  them  in 
a  pan,  pour  around  them  a  cupful  of  weak  stock,  cover  and 
bake  one  hour.  Baste  often.  Uncover,  strew  the  surface 
of  the  shells'  contents  with  crumbs,  put  bits  of  butter  on 
this  and  brown.  If  preferred  meat  may  be  substituted  for 
the  tomato.  M.  P. 

Fried  Egg  Plant — Cut  an  egg  plant  into  slices  about  half 
an  inch  thick.  Pare  these,  and  lay  them  in  a  deep,  flat  dish, 
and  pour  upon  them  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  to  which  has 
been  added  a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  After  the  slices  have 
stood  for  an  hour  in  the  water,  drain  and  pepper  them ;  then 
dip  them  into  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boil- 
ing fat  for  eight  minutes.  Serve  immediately. 

Pea  Timbales — One  cup  of  peas  passed  through  a  sieve, 
two  eggs,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  two  or  three  tablespoon- 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


fuls  of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or  stock,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt, 
sugar  and  black  pepper;  butter  molds  and  bake  in  pan  of 
hot  water  until  firm.  Serve  with  white  or  tomato  sauce. 
Corn  or  chestnuts  made  in  same  way  are  good. 

Mrs.  Briggs.  S.  A. 

Potatoes  a  1'Italienne  —  Boil,  peel,  put  in  saucepan  and 
mash.  Add  one  ounce  of  butter  and  a  piece  of  bread  the  size 
of  a  French  roll  (no  crust),  soaking  it  in  milk;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk  to  form  pliable  paste,  three  yolks  and 
three  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a  little  nutmeg;  mix  well  and  pile  high  in  baking  dish 
and  pour  over  it  a  little  melted  butter;  sprinkle  with 
Parmesan  cheese.  Place  in  oven  for  ten  minutes  to  brownr 
and  serve.  Mrs.  G. 

Potatoes,  Maitre  d  'Hotel  —  Boil,  peel  and  cut  into  slices,. 
place  in  saucepan  with  one  ounce  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of 
chopped  parsley  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  pinch  ui  nut- 
meg and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Warm  all  together,  toss 
well  and  add  half  a  cup  of  cream;  beat  slightly  and  serve. 

Mrs.  G. 

Stuffed  Potatoes  —  Bake  potatoes  and  remove  a  piece  of 
the  skin,  take  out  some  potato  and  drop  in  a  raw  egg.  Over 
this  place  some  minced  ham  mixed  with  gravy  or  ham  stock. 
Put  back  in  oven  until  egg  is  cooked  through.  Serve  with 
brown  sauce.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Saratoga  Potatoes  —  Peel  and  slice  in  nice  long  pieces 
and  put  in  cold  water  ;  wash  and  drain  ;  spread  between  the 
folds  of  a  clean  cloth  ;  rub  and  pat  until  dry.  Fry  in  hot 
boiling  lard  ;  salt  as  they  are  taken  out.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Browned  Potato  Balls  —  Cut  balls  from  raw  potatoes  and' 
boil  until  quite  tender  in  stock  seasoned  with  onion;  put  in 
a  t-iallow  buttered  baking  pan  and  cover  with  melted  butter. 
Put  in  a  hot  oven  and  brown.  Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
parsley  and  serve.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Stuffed  Peppers  No.  1  —  Remove  the  inside  of  one  dozen* 
bell  peppers  and  soak  in  salt  water  for  two  hours  or  more. 
Chop  a  cup  of  veal,  two  green  onions,  two  pieces  of  white 


36  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.     For  cribs  and 

SAN  RAFAEL,  CAL.,  high  chairs 


< celery  and  a  head  of  lettuce  fine  and  add  three  well-beaten 
•eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  half  a  cup  of  cracker 
*crumbs.  Season  highly  and  grate  in  a  little  cheese.  It 
must  be  quite  moist,  so  add  more  olive  oil  if  the  mixture  is 
too  dry.  Fill  peppers  and  bake  for  an  hour.  This  dish 
is  very  fine.  Mary  A.  Brown. 

Stuffed  Bell  Peppers  No.  2 — Cut  off  top  and  scoop  out 
rseeds  of  peppers.  To  make  filling-  use  cup  of  veal,  cup  of 
.sausage,meat,  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  half  a  cup  of  chopped  onion,  a  teaspoonful 
of  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  one 
«egg  beaten  with  half  a  cup  of  milk;  mix  together,  fill  pep- 
pers, put  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  and  replace  pepper 
top;  put  in  baking  pan  and  put  in  water  to  cover  half  of 
height  of  peppers  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  three-quarters 
-of  an  hour.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Stuffed  Bell  Peppers  No  3— Take  bell  peppers  and  cut 
off  tops,  then  make  a  filling  of  equal  parts  of  grated  bread 
and  any  kind  of  meat  chopped  fine ;  season  with  ground  all- 
spice, cinnamon,  cloves,  pepper  and  salt,  then  fill  them,  put- 
ting a  lump  of  butter  in  the  top ;  tie  on  the  top  and  put  im 
-covered  baking  dish  and  bake  forty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch,  S.  A. 

Stuffed  Peppers  No.  4 — Core  one  dozen  large  bell  peppers; 
fill  with  the  following  ingredients :  Boil  two  large  heads  of 
lettuce  until  soft,  then  drain  and  chop  .with  two  cups  of 
"bread  crumbs,  two  large  onions,  a  little  garlic  and  parsley; 
then  add  three  eggs  well  beaten  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
olive  oil;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  thyme  and  sage.  Place 
peppers  in  baking  pan  and  fill;  place  a  small  lump  of  butter 
-on  top  of  each  pepper;  bake  about  half  an  hour. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese — Boil  and  drain  the  macaroni; 
place  a  layer  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  cracker 
^crumbs,  salt,  red  pepper  and  grated  cheese.  Alternate 
macaroni  and  seasoning  until  all  is  used.  Pour  a  cupful  of 
milk  or  water  over  the  pan  and  bake  one  hour. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  37 

Macaroni  and  Bacon — Fry  a  platter  of  breakfast  bacon 
aid  pour  most  of  the  grease  from  the  pan.  Drop  in  a  pint 
of  plain  boiled  macaroni,  season  with  red  pepper  and  stir 
until  well  heated  in  the  grease.  Put  the  macaroni  in  the 
center  of  the  platter  and  garnish  the  bacon  around  it. 

Macaroni  Italian — One  round  steak  cut  in  small  pieces; 
put  into  the  pot  half  a  cup  of  olive  oil  and  two  onions  sliced, 
four  pieces  of  garlic  and  fry;  add  one  can  of  tomatoes,  some 
T.ried  mushrooms,  cayenne  pepper,  salt  to  taste,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  sage.  Cook  about  two  hours.  Cook  macaroni 
in  boiling  water,  seasoned  with  salt,  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
one  layer  of  macaroni  and  one  of  cheese  and  cover  with 
gravy.  Serve  meat  separately.  Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch,  S.  A. 

Macaroni  and  Mushrooms — Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of 
dried  mushrooms;  cover  with  water,  let  soak  two  or  three 
hours.  Take  one  pound  of  macaroni,  break  up,  and  put  to 
cook  in  a  generous  supply  of  water.  Boil  30  minutes ;  drain 
well  when  done.  Take  four  slices  of  bacon  and  fry,  remove 
and  put  in  a  chopped  onion  and  fry.  Take  out,  and  put  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  or  canned  tomatoes; 
then  pour  in  the  mushrooms  and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes 
on  back  of  stove.  Take  a  large  platter  and  on  it  grate  a 
layer  of  cheese.  On  this  put  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then  a 
layer  of  mushrooms,  alternating  until  all  is  used. 

Mrs.  Arthur  L.  Silling. 

Macaroni  Spanish — Take  equal  parts  of  macaroni,  grated 
cheese  and  roast  veal  or  any  kind  of  left-over  meat.  Put 
macaroni  into  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  until  tender. 
Spanish  sauce; one  can  of  tomatoes,  two  large  onions  chopped 
fine,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  cayenne 
to  taste;  cook  all  together,  then  add  one  cup  of  milk  into 
which  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  has  been  dissolved,  and  a 
pinch  of  soda  added  to  Keep  milk  from  curdling.  Put  into 
a  baking  pan  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then  cheese,  then  meat, 
and  tLen  Spanish  sauce,  and  repeat  until  all  is  used.  Bake 
until  nicely  browned.  Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch,  S.  A. 

Stuffed  Macaroni — Cook  macaroni  in  salt  water  until 
tender;  drain  off  water  and  line  buttered  baking  dish  with 


38  ADVERTISEMENTS 


Orders  delivered  promptly  F.  DIEHL,  Proprietor 

San  Anselmo  Bakery 

Fresh  Milk  Bread,  Pies,  Cakes,  Confectionery, 
Ice  Cream  and  Cake 

San  Anselmo  Avenue  San  Anselmo,  California 

Phone  San  Rafael  10  BOTTLERS  JOHN  WI ELAND'S  LAGER 

FREY  &  CO. 

Wholesale  Wine  and  Liquor  Dealers 

Cor.  Fourth  and  D  Sts.  San  Rafael,  Cal. 

TELEPHONE  SUB,  46 

GEO,  A,  MARTIN 

GENERAL  TEAMING  Wells,  Fargo  Co.'s  Delivery 

Chas.  Jensen  Phone  S.  R.  2553  J.  W.  Schlosser 

Jensen  &  Schlosser  Lumber 
and  Mill  Co, 

Tamalpais  Ave.  and  Third  St.  San  Rafael,  Cal. 

San  Anselmo,  Cal.  San  Rafael,  Cal. 

Phone  Sub.  364  Cor.  3rd  and  D  Sts. 

Phone  San  Rafael  2631 

Arden  Dairy 

M.  Butler,  Prop. 
Fresh  Milk,  Cream  and  Butter  All  deliveries  made  promptly 

Phone  3961 

R,  KINSELLA 

PLUMBER  and  GAS  FITTER 

404  B  Street  San  Rafael,  Cal. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


macaroni ;  mix  into  it  any  left-over  meat  chopped  finely,  two 
soda  crakers  rolled  fine,  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  savory,  thyme 
or  sage,  a  small  grated  onion,  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  and  a 
little  milk  or  water  to  moisten  the  mixture ;  pack  lightly  in 
center  of  macaroni  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  hot 
oven  for  half  an  hour.  Pour  over  it  a  sauce  made  from  any 
left-over  gravy  or  a  tomato  sauce.  Mrs.  G.  Faubel.  S.  F. 

Baked  Onions — Boil  onions  in  salt  and  water  until  about 
done.  Put  in  baking  pan ;  grate  cheese  over  each  one,  then 
pepper  and  butter  and  bake  about  fifteen  minutes. 

Miss  C.  O'Connor,  San  Rafael. 

Stuffed  Onions — Select  large  onions,  peel  and  slightly 
parboil,  then  remove  the  heart  of  each  onion  and  fill  the 
vacancy  with  equal  parts  of  bread  crumbs  and  chopped 
cold  meat.  Season  well  (spice  also  if  liked)  ;  put  in  a  well 
buttered  baking  dish  and  pour  stock  over  them ;  if  you  lack 
stock  place  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  onion  and  baste  fre- 
quently with  hot  water.  Cover  dish  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  one  hour.  Miss  J.  Lawrence,  S.  F. 

Mexican  Rice — Put  a  cupful  of  dried  rice  into  a  hot  fry- 
ing pan  containing  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil.  Fry  the 
rice  until  well  browned  but  not  scorched.  Add  to  this  four 
or  five  finely  chopped  tomatoes,  a  little  salt  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  Mexican  or  Chili  pepper  pulp.  Pour  in  a  cup- 
ful of  boiling  water  and  let  simmer  until  the  rice  is  soft. 

Spanish  Rice — Wash  half  a  cup  of  rice  well.  Put  a 
tablespoonful  of  lard  into  a  pan  with  the  rice.  Stir  con- 
stantly until  it  is  all  very  hot ;  add  some  water,  pepper,  an 
onion,  a  spoonful  of  cloves  and  half  a  can  of  tomatoes. 

T.  Romberg. 

Spinach  Gratin — Cream  spinach  that  has  been  boiled, 
passed  through  the  meat  chopper  and  creamed.  Place  a 
little  in  individual  ramekins,  then  lay  a  poached  egg  on  top 
of  each  dish ;  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese,  and  dot  with 
small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  just  enough 
to  brown.  Mrs.  G.,  San  Anselmo. 

Spinach,  Swedish  Style — Wash  and  pick  over  half  a 
peck  of  spinach ;  cook  in  an  uncovered  vessel  with  a  large 


40  ADVERTISEMENTS 

San  Anselmo  Merchandise  Co. 

FRANK  KERZ,    Proprietor 


Dealers  in 


General    Merchandise 


Groceries  and  Household  Goods 


Phone  Suburban  45         Orders  solicited  and  delivered  daily 


ATTHOWE  &  STUDLEY 

Real  Estate  and 
Insurance 

Agency  for  Royal  Ins.    Co  ,    of 

Liverpool;     Liverpool,    London 

and  Globe  Ins.  Co.;    Queen  Ins.  San  Ansel tnot 

Co.,  of  America       ::         ::         ::  California 


Open  Sundays  Suburban  Home  Sites 

Croker  &  Co. 

MARIN    COUNTY 
Real  Estate 
Agents 

Lots  and  Acreage,  Ross  Valley,  San  Head  Office 

Anselmo  and  Fairfax  Property.  SAN  AN  S.E-LMO  STATION 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  41 

quantity  of  boiling  salted  water,  to  which  has  been  added 
one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one-half  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  This  way  of  cooking  preserves  the  bright 
green  color  of  the  vegetable.  Drain  and  chop  fine.  Reheat 
and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one-half  cupful  of 
cream.  Mound  on  a  hot  serving  dish,  and  garnish  with  the 
yolk  and  white  of  a  hard-boiled  egg,  and  triangular  pieces 
of  bread  sauteed  in  butter. 

Summer  Squash — Slice  summer  or  Italian  squash  about 
half  an  inch  thick;  put  some  in  the  frying  pan,  then  grated 
onion,  pepper,  salt  and  butter  and  so  on  until  pan  is  filled; 
cover  and  let  cook  on  top  of  stove  until  tender. 

Mrs.  Nagle,  Alameda. 

Summer  Squash  Italian — Boil  four  medium-sized  squash 
in  salt  water ;  when  soft  mash  and  add  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  onion  sliced  very  thin,  two  well-beaten  eggs 
and  half  a  cup  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Add  pepper,  salt 
and  allspice  to  taste.  If  too  thick  add  sweet  milk.  Bake 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  fairly  hot  oven.  Belle  C.  Brown. 

Baked  Stuffed  Tomatoes  No.  1 — Take  rather  large  reg- 
ularly shaped  fruit,  cut  a  small  slice  from  the  blossom  end 
and  scrape  out  all  the  soft  part.  Mix  this  with  stale  bread 
crumbs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  some  parsley  and  a  little 
chopped  onion.  Fill  the  tomatoes  carefully  and  set  them 
in  a  dish  with  a  little  butter  in  it.  Let  them  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  watching  them  that 
they  do  not  burn  or  become  dry.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  No.  2 — Grate  one  cup  each  of  bread 
crumbs  and  cheese  finely ;  add  one  hard-boiled  egg,  one  raw 
egg  and  one  cup  of  dried  mushrooms;  season  with  cayenne 
pepper,  black  pepper  and  salt;  mix  thoroughly  and  stuff 
the  tomatoes  with  this  mixture ;  add  a  little  water  and  bake. 
Watch  carefully  to  see  that  they  do  not  burn. 

Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch,  S.  A. 

Escalloped  Tomatoes — Put  a  layer  of  cooked  beef 
chopped  fine  on  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish,  next  a  layer 


42  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

of  rolled  crackers,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes;  repeat 
until  the  dish  is  full,  then  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg  on  top ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  a  large  cup 
of  cream  or  rich  milk  on  top  and  bake  one-half  hour  and 
serve  immediately.  Mrs.  Leach. 


FISH 


Cioppino  or  Stewed  Striped  Bass — Take  about  four 
pounds  of  striped  bass  and  slice  about  one  inch  thick;  put 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  pan ;  add  fish,  some  chopped 
onions  and  one  branch  of  basilico,  green  or  dry.  Add  also 
one  can  of  tomatoes  or  one  pound  of  fresh  peeled  tomatoes, 
one  pound  of  potatoes  cut  in  quarters  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  suit  taste.  Keep  covered  on  slow  fire. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Pesenti. 

Codfish  on  Toast — Take  some  freshened  cobfish  picked 
fine ;  fry  a  sliced  union  in  butter  or  lard ;  when  it  has  turned 
a  light  brown  put  in  the  fish,  then  add  half  a  can  of  to- 
matoes or  half  a  dozen  fresh  ones;  add  a  little  water,  season 
with  cayenne  pepper  and  cook  nearly  an  hour ;  thicken  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  in  water.  Take  from  fire 
and  add  half  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk ;  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Miss  E.  O'Connor,  Los  Angeles. 

Salt  Cod  With  Tomatoes — From  the  center  of  a  thickr 
salt  cod,  take  a  piece  weighing  about  a  pound;  wash  and 
soak  for  eighteen  hours  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water 
twice.  Cover  with  fresh  cold  water,  heat  slowly  and  keep 
at  a  temperature  just  below  the  simmering  point  for  tw.a 
hours  and  a  half.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  which  ha& 
been  rolled  in  flour,  in  a  frying  pan,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  chopped  onion,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  butter  is  a  pale 
yellow  color.  Add  two  cups  of  strained  tomatoes,  simmer 
for  ten  minutes,  add  the  drained  fish  and  place  on  the  back 
of  the  range  for  thirty  minutes.  Dust  lightly  with  pepper 
when  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  G.  H. 

Creole  of  Crab — Three  green  peppers  chopped  fine,  four 
medium  sized  onions,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  salt  and 
pepper;  let  boil  about  ten  minutes,  then  add  half  a  can  of 
tomatoes ;  boil  until  well  dissolved ;  add  half  a  pint  of  cream 
or  rich  milk  with  a  little  butter  added;  mix  with  a  table- 
spoonful  -of  flour ;  let  come  to  boiling  point ;  stir  this  into  a 
well-picked  crab  and  pour  over  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  G.  Faubel,  S.  F. 


44  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Crab  Manhattan — Fry  one  onion  chopped  fine  with  one 
'clove  of  garlic  in  a  little  butter  until  cooked ;  add  one  green 
pepper  cut  in  small  pieces,  some  cooked  celery  chopped  in 
little  pieces,  and  about  a  half  cupful  of  tomatoes;  then  stir 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  this,  and  boil  until  thick ;  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  shredded  crab ; 
:stir  thoroughly,  put  in  shells,  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese 
and  dot  with  small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until 
"brown.  Mrs.  G.,  San  Anselmo. 

Crab  Newberg — Shred  crab  and  soak  about  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour  in  sherry  wine  and  a  little  Worcestershire 
sauce  to  taste,  about  enough  wine  to  cover  crab ;  quarter 
some  champignon  and  soak  with  crab.  Melt  some  butter, 
stir  in  a  little  flour,  add  a  little  cream,  and  a  good  dash  of 
paprika.  Mix  together  and  put  in  shells;  sprinkle  with 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  dot  with  small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  until  brown.  Mrs.  G.,  San  Anselmo. 

Deviled  Crab  No.  1 — Melt  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter ;  mix  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  heat  a  pint  of  milk 
and  add  slowly  to  the  butter  and  flour;  a  clove  of  garlic, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  When 
properly  thickened  add  the  picked  meat  of  two  crabs; 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and- bits  of  butter  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  until  light  brown.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Deviled  Crab  No.  2 — Open  and  shred  a  crab.  To  a  large 
<?rab  use  three  slices  of  bread ;  soak  same  in  water.  When 
soft  squeeze  out  the  water  and  add  a  slice  of  melted  butter, 
paprika,  catsup  and  Worcestershire  sauce  and  two  eggs,  the 
whites  beaten  separately.  Put  into  the  shells  with  pieces  of 
butter  on  top  and  bake  in  oven. 

Deviled  Crab  No.  3 — Shred  thoroughly  the  white  meat 
of  one  crab ;  add  four  soda  crackers  powdered,  one  egg,  half 
a  cup  of  milk  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Season  to 
taste.  Bake  in  individual  crab  dishes  and  serve  with  lemon. 

Mrs.  H.  P.  C. 

Baked  Fish — One-half  cup  of  butter  well  beaten  with  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  chopped 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  45 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.,  For  couches  and 

SAN  RAFAEL,   CAL.  DaVCflpOrtS 


picides,  parsley,  onions  and  whole  capers,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Split  the  fish,  remove  the 
bones,  spread  with  this  mixture  and  bake  half  an  hour  in 
a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Baked  Fish  With  Tomatoes— Take  a  white  fish  that 
weighs  three  pounds;  clean  thoroughly;  rub  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  lay  in  piece  of  pork  or  butter ;  put  in  covered  baking; 
dish  and  turn  over  it  one  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes  (cold  to- 
matoes left  over  are  nice),  bake  until  well  done. 

Serve  with  the  following  sauce:  A  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  one  pint  of 
hot  milk ;  let  cook  until  well  done,  stirring  all  the  time ;  sea- 
son. Have  some  tomatoes  stewed  and  pressed  through  a 
sieve,  add  seven  tablespoonfuls  to  the  sauce  and  serve  with 
the  fish.  Mrs.  G.  Elston. 

Fish  Balls — Soak  good  salt  codfish  for  an  hour  or  more ; 
pick  in  bits  until  you  have  a  cupful,  put  into  cooking  kettle 
with  two  heaping  cups  of  raw  potatoes,  pared  and  cut -in 
dice ;  cook  until  potatoes  are  soft ;  drain  well ;  add  a  little 
milk ;  season  with  pepper  and  butter ;  beat  in  one  egg,  form 
into  cakes  and  fry  in  pork  fat. 

Fish  Stuffing — Take  about  half  a  pound  of  stale  bread 
and  soak  in  water;  when  soft  press  out  the  water;  add  a 
very  little  chopped  suet,  pepper,  salt  and  a  large  tablespoon- 
ful of  onion  minced  and  fried,  and,  if  preferred,  a  little 
minced  parsley;  cook  a  little  and  after  removing  from  the 
fire  add  a  beaten  egg. 

Baked  Haddock — Scale  and  clean  a  three-pound  fish; 
fill  with  force  meat  and  sew  up.  Sprinkle  over  a  generous, 
supply  of  salt  and  bread  crumbs.  Put  three  even  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  in  tiny  pieces  on  the  fish;  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  frequently 

Mrs.  M.  Briggs,  San  Anselmo. 


46 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Cigars,  Tobaccos,  Pipes,  Etc. 

Wholesale 

A  complete  line  of  all  the 
popular  brands. 

C.  F.  Baysen 

2829  Mission  St.         San  Francisco,  Cal. 


PETER  BETTEGA 

BOOTS  and  SHOES 


Ross  Avenue 


San  Anselmo,  Cal 


F.  MEHL  &  COMPANY 

BUTCHERS 


Fourth  St.  near  B,   Wilkins'  Block 
San  Rafael         Phone  S.  R.  58 


TELEPHONE  SAN  RAFAEL  87 


H 


cover  $ 


501  Fourth  St. 


San  Rafael 


New  Marin  Bakery 

P.  Riede  &  Co.        ::       Phone  Main  51 

Genuine  Milk  and  Rye  Bread 

Wedding  Cakes  to  Order. 

Orders  promptly  filled   and  delivered 
to  any  part  of  the  city 


719  Fourth  St. 


San  Rafael 


Telephone  Main  104 

KELLY  BROTHERS 

SANITARY  PLUMBERS 

Dealers  in   Plumbing- Supplies, 
Garden  Hose,  Hardware,   Tin- 
ware, Agateware,  Stoves,   Ranges, 
Electrical  supplies,  Household  fur- 
nishing Goods,   Paints,   Oils,   Etc. 
609  FOURTH  ST.  San  Rafael,  Cal. 


J1.  L.  Von  Husen  H.  J.  Von  Husen 

H.  C.  Eckhoff 

W.  Von  Husen  &  Co. 

Incorporated 

GROCERIES  AND  DELICACIES 

Fruits,  Fish  and  Vegetables 


Phone  Main  28 
•Wilkin*  Block 


Phone  3003 

Flemmmg    &    NoJder 
HABERDASHERS 

Agents  for  The  F.  Thomas 
Parisian  Dying  and  Clean- 
ing Works,  San  Francisco. 


San  Rafael 


427  B  St. 


SAN  RAFAEL 


.At  the  Junction    R.  E .  Shapira,  Prop. 

Shapira's  Pharmacy 

Drugs,  Medicines,  Toilet  Articles, 

and  Stationery.        Prescriptions 

a  Specialty 


SAN  ANSELMO 


CALIFORNIA 


Phone  Sub.  46         Suits  made  to  order 
Store — San  Anselmo  Ave. 

San  Anselmo  Tailoring  Co. 

M.  Fieebert.  Prop. 
LADIES'  and  GENTS'  TAILOR 

Suits  Cleaned  and  Pressed.  Furs  and 
Silk  Goods  Renoviated.  Suits  called 
for  and  delivered. 


Home  Office  Sanitary  Dust  Removing 
Company  Telephone  S.  R    11\>\ 

Scott  fe?   Company 

Agent  for  Phoenix   Pure  Paint, 

Masury's  Colors,  Climax  Carriage 

Paint.      Glazing  attended  to. 

Stoves,  Hardware,  Cutlery. 

Fourth  Street,   Between  C  and  D 

Opera  House  Block       -        San  Rafael 


Ambrose   &  Cobb 

Painters   and  Decorators 

Dealers  in  Paints,  Oils,  Varnish,  Win- 
dow Glass,  Wall  Paper,  Brushes. 
Agents  for  Pacific  Art  Glass  Co. 

Metal  Signs.  Etc. 
LARKSPUR,  -  CALIFORNIA 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  47 

Halibut  a  la  Creole — Take  a  slice  of  fish  weighing  about 
four  pounds,  and  use  also  a  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes,  a  cupful 
of  water,  a  slice  of  onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three 
cloves  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Put  the  tomato, 
water,  cloves  and  onion  to  boil.  Mix  the  butter  and  flour 
and  stir  into  the  sauce,  when  it  boils.  Add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  after 
cooking  for  ten  minutes,  rub  through  a  strainer  into  a  bowl. 
Pour  into  a  deep  plate,  boiling  water  to  the  depth  of  half 
an  inch,  and  lay  the  fish  in  it  for  half  a  minute,  black  side 
down.  Remove  it  from  the  water  and  the  black  substance 
can  readily  be  scraped  off.  Wash  the  halibut  in  cold  water 
and  season  it  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  a  tin  sheet 
in  a  small,  shallow  pan  and  lay  the  fish  on  it.  If  you  have 
no  sheet,  lay  the  fish  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  but  this 
should  be  avoided  if  possible,  because  the  fish  cannot  be 
easily  removed  whole  after  it  has  been  cooked.  Pour  into 
the  pan  about  half  of  the  tomato  sauce,  and  then  set  in  a 
hot  oven.  Cook  the  fish  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  bast- 
ing three  times  with  the  remainder  of  the  tomato  sauce.  At 
serving  time  slide  the  halibut  from  the  tin  sheet  upon  a  hot 
dish  and  pour  over  it  the  sauce  remaining  in  the  pan.  Serve 
;hot.  M.  P. 

Holland  Herring — Soak  all  night;  take  off  heads  and 
tails;  skin  and  run  finger  dow  the  back  bone  to  split  and  re- 
move ;  put  a  layer  of  fish  and  a  layer  of  onions  in  dish  and 
then  fish  and  onions  until  all  are  used;  cover  with  vinegar 
.and  oil.  Mrs.  G.  B.  Hund. 

Baked  Lobster — One-half  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  cream 
-or  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  milk  with  melted  butter  added ; 
let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one- 
lialf  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  boil 
five  minutes ;  one  can  of  lobster  broken  in  small  pieces  with  a 
fork.  Put  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  cream  and  then  a 
layer  of  lobster,  alternate  until  dish  is  full,  having  last  a 
layer  of  cream.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  twenty 
minutes.  Mrs.  T.  G.  Howe,  Redding,  Cal. 

Creamed  Lobster — One  lobster,  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cut  the  lobster  in  small  pieces, 


48  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

put  a  half  a  cup  of  water  on  the  stove  and  when  this  is  hot 
add  the  lobster,  butter  and  seasoning;  just  before  serving 
stir  in  a  little  flour  to  thicken  it. 

An  Excellent  Luncheon  Dish — Take  the  contents  of  one 
can  of  salmon,  or  equal  weight  in  cold  boiled  fish,  remove 
skin  and  bones,  and  separate  in  flakes.  If  the  canned  pro- 
duct is  used,  first  rinse  very  thoroughly  with  hot  water.  Mix 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Add 
one  egg  slightly  beaten,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of" 
melted  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  three- 
fourths  of  a  cupful  of  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
the  mixture  thickens  like  a  soft  custard,  stirring  constantly 
at  first  and  afterward  occasionally.  Remove  from  the 
range  and  add  three-fourths  of  a  tablespoonful  of  granu- 
lated gelatine  soaked  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water. 
Strain  the  mixture,  add  to  the  fish  and  turn  into  individual 
moulds  or  a  brick  mold.  Chill  thoroughly  and  remove  from 
the  mould  to  a  serving  dish.  Serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce. 

L.  M. 

Oysters  on  Toast — For  six  people,  use  fifty  good-sized 
oysters,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  'butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  six  slices  of  toast  and  salt  and  pepper  to  suit 
the  taste.  Put  the  oysters  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  they 
get  heated  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  seasoning.  Boil 
up,  and  then  pour  them  on  the  slices  of  toast,  which  should 
be  arranged  on  a  warm  plat'ter.  Serve  at  once.  This  is 
the  simplest  way  to  prepare  oysters.  They  can  be  cooked 
at  the  table  in  a  chafing-dish.  M.  P. 

Oysters  Served  in  Patty  Shells — Clean  one  quart  of 
oysters;  parboil  and  drain.  Melt  half  a  cup  of  butter;  add 
half  a  cup  of  flour  and  stir  until  smooth  and  brown;  then 
add  two  cups  of  oyster  liquor,  stirring  constantly;  bring  to 
boiling  point,  then  add  oysters;  season  with  Worcestershire 
sauce,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve 
in  patty  shells.  Mrs.  G.  Drummond,  San  Francisco. 

Baked  Salmon — One  large  can  of  salmon,  one  pint  of 
scalded  milk,  about  six  soda  crackers  rolled  very  fine,  pep- 
per, salt  and  butter.  Mince  up  salmon  with  fork,  sprinkle- 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  49* 

baking  pan  with  salmon,  then  a  layer  of  crackers,  a  little- 
salt  and  pepper  and  part  of  milk ;  repeat  until  all  is  used  up  -r 
and  lastly  have  crackers  and  a  number  of  small  pieces  of 
butter  on  top.  Bake  in  oven  about  half  an  hour  or  until  a. 
good  brown.  Butter  pan  well,  then  when  done  turn  out  ons 
dish  and  pour  over  the  following  sauce : 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk ;  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  add  salt  and  two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  very  fine 
and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  chopped  fine ;  also  a  piece  of  but- 
ter. Mrs.  W. 

Curry  of  Salmon — Open  a  can  of  salmon  two  hours  be- 
fore using  and  remove  all  bits  of  skin  and  bone.  Pour  two- 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  in  a  frying  pan  and  fry  in  it  a 
minced  onion.  When  the  onion  is  brown  stir  into  the  oil 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder,  and  when  these  are  all  blended  add  a  coffee  cupful 
of  boiling  water.  Season  and  stir  for  a  moment  and  then 
turn  the  salmon  into  the  mixture.  Cook  for  two  minutes, 
and  serve.  Pass  sliced  lemon  with  this  dish. 

Mrs.  Harry  J.  Clinch. 

Brook  Trout— (Angler  Style)— Split  to  the  tail;  clean,. 
was!i  and  drain.  For  one  dozen  large  trout,  fry  six  slices 
of  salt  pork  brown;  take  out  and  put  in  the  trout.  Fry 
nice  brown  and  serve  with  the  pork. 

Mrs.  M.  Briggs,  S.  A. 

Shrimps  Baked  in  Bell  Peppers — Use  for  this  dish  one 
dozen  green  bell  peppers,  one  quart  of  pickled  shrimps,  one 
teacupful  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  one-fourth  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  celery 
seed,  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg,  one  egg  and  some  salt,  un- 
less the  fish  themselves  be  salty.  Cut  the  stem  ends  from, 
the  peppers  and  take  out  the  seeds  and  veins.  Soak  the 
cleaned  peppers  in  water  for  half  an  hour.  Beat  the  butter 
to  a  cream,  and  beat  into  it  the  seasonings  and  egg.  Add 
the  crumbs.  Mix  these  ingredients  well,  and  add  them  to- 
the  shrimps.  Drain  the  peppers  at  the  end  of  the  half  hour 
and  stuff  them  with  the  shrimp.  Arrange  them  in  a  pan 
with  the  open  side  up.  Cook  in  a  hot  over  for  twenty 
minutes.  M.  P. 


50  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Warmed  Over  Fish — One-fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter,  two 
and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  three  cups  of  milk,  the  yolks 
of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  es- 
sence and  two  cups  of  cold  boiled  fish ;  make  a  sauce  of  but- 
ter-mash yolks  of  eggs  and  mix  with  anchovy  essence;  add 
to  sauce,  then  add  fish.  .  Serve  as  soon  as  heated.  (Whole 
<egg  can  be  used  if  desired.)  Mrs.  B.  B.  Lawrence,  S.  F. 


MR  A  TS 


Beef  Omelet  No.  1 — Two  pounds  of  raw  beef  chopped 
fine,  and  half  as  much  in  bulk  of  stale  bread,  also  chopped; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one 
egg  to  make  it  adhere;  mould  into  a  loaf  and  bake  slowly 
tw^o  hours ;  slice  cold.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Beef  Omelet  No.  2 — Four  pounds  of  round  of  beef,  un- 
cooked and  chopped  fine;  six  eggs  well  beaten,  five  or  six 
crackers  rolled  fine,  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  suet  for 
seasoning ;  make  two  loaves  and  roll  them  in  cracker  crumbs ; 
bake  one  hour  and  slice  when  cold. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Meek,  Marysville. 

Ragout  of  Beef — For  eight  persons,  two  pounds  of  beef 
from  the  round,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  pint  of 
stock,  four  potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  suet,  salt  and 
pepper  are  required.  Cut  the  beef  into  cubes  of  one  inch ; 
put  the  suet  in  a  saucepan;  when  hot  add  the  meat,  shake  un- 
til the  meat  is  browned ;  draw  the  pieces  to  the  saucepan,  add 
the  flour  to  the  fat,  then  add  the  stock,  salt  and  pepper  and 
stir  until  boiling ;  cover  the  saucepan  and  simmer  gently  one 
and  .a  half  hours.  Ten  minutes  before  serving  add  the  po- 
tatoes cut  into  cubes.  If  well  made  this  is  a  very  economical 
and  exceedingly  good  dish.  M.  H. 

Stuffed  Chops — Use  mutton  chops  from  shoulder ;  put  in 
roasting  pan  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  stuffing 
of  three  large  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  fine,  one  green 
pepper,  parsley  and  celery  chopped  fine ;  mix  with  crumbs  of 
ten  to  twelve  crackers  and  two  eggs,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  a  little  sage  or  thyme.  Spread  on  chops 
about  one  inch  thick  and  put  a  piece  of  butter  and  dry 
cracker  crumbs  on  top;  let  heat  in  oven;  add  a  little  water 
and  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Serve  with  tomato 
gravy.  Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch. 

Baked  Ham — Soak  a  ham  twelve  hours  in  cold  water; 
make  a  dough  of  flour  and  water,  knead  until  smooth  ;roll  one 
inch  thick  and  long  enough  to  thoroughly  cover  ham ;  encase 


52  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

the  ham  in  dough  and  pinch  edges  together;  support  the 
ham  a  little  way  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan  to  prevent  the 
dough  from  burning.  This  may  be  accomplished  by  placing 
a  perforated  pie  pan  inverted  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  in 
which  the  ham  is  to  be  baked.  Place  the  ham  on  this  pie 
pan,  then  pour  in  sufficient  water  almost  to  reach  the  top 
of  the  pie  pan,  but  not  to  come  in  contact  with  the  dough  in 
which  the  ham  is  encased.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until 
the  dough  cracks  open;  remove  dough  and  skin;  return  to 
baking  pan ;  add  to  water  in  pan  half  a  bottle  of  good  white 
wine,  one  bay  leaf  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  bake  an- 
other hour,  frequently  basting.  Stand  in  liquor  until  cold. 

Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Fried  Ham — Fried  ham  will  be  as  tender  as  chicken  if 
cooked  in  this  way :  Wipe  a  slice  of  ham  with  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  cold  water,  and  cut  off  half  of  the  outside  layer  of 
fat.  Put  in  an  iron  frying  pan,  cover  with  tepid  water,  and 
let  stand  on  the  back  of  the  range  thirty  minutes,  not  allow- 
ing the  water  to  reach  a  higher  temperature  than  at  first, 
Drain  the  ham  and  dry  on  a  towel.  Heat  the  frying  pan, 
put  in  the  ham  and  brown  quickly  on  one  side,  then  turn 
and  brown  on  the  other  side,  the  time  required  being  about 
three  minutes.  Remove  to  a  heated  platter  and  serve  at 
once.  L.  M. 

Mark  Hanna  Hash — Brown  in  a  saucepan  two  onions 
with  one  ounce  of  butter ;  add  one  pound  of  cooked,  but  un- 
derdone, well  chopped  roast  beef  and  one  pint  of  mashed  po- 
tatoes ;  moisten  with  any  stock  soup,  preferably  chicken 
broth;  season  with  pinch  of  pepper,  same  of  nutmeg;  stir 
well,  then  cook  for  fifteen  minutes ;  serve  with  poached  eggs. 

Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Stuffed  Hearts — Boil  hearts  until  tender  in  salted  water. 
Remove  the  center  from  the  hearts;  chop  the  meat  and  add 
one  cup  of  chopped  cold  meat,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  juice 
of.  half  of  a  lemon,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  one  .egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  enough  liquor 
to  make  moist;  fill  the  hearts;  put  in  baking  pan  and  half 
fill  with  liquor.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  R.  Leach. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  53 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.  For  La'e  curtains 

SAN  RAFAEL  GAL.,  and  Portieres 


India  Curry — Wipe  a  slice  of  veal  weighing  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  and  cut  half  an  inch  thick.  Wipe,  and  cook  in 
a  hot  frying:  pan  without  butter,  searing  one  side,  then  the 
other.  Place  on  a  board  and  cut  in  one  and  one-half  inch 
pieces.  Fry  two  sliced  onions  in  one-half  of  a  cupful  of 
butter  until  brown;  remove  the  onions,  and  add  to  the  but- 
ter, veal  and  one-half  of  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder. 
Cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  simmer  until  the  meat  is 
tender.  Thicken  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  diluted 
with  enough  cold  water  to  pour  easily,  then  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Serve  writh  a  border  of  boiled  rice. 

M.  H. 

Chopped  Meat  Balls — Chop  fine  two  onions  and  mix 
with  two  pounds  of  chopped  meat ;  then  add  one  cup  of 
bread  crumbs  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  thyme  and  sage. 
Take  mixture  and  form  into  meat  balls.  Take  one  small 
onion  chopped  fine  and  fry  in  saucepan  in  olive  oil;  when 
fried  brown  add  six  large  tomatoes ;  when  it  begins  to  boil 
drop  in  meat  balls  and  cook  about  thirty  minutes.  Season 
to  taste.  If  tomatoes  are  watery  thicken  with  a  little  flour. 

Mrs.  E.  Decham. 

Meat  Balls — Take  cold  roast  beef  and  chop  fine  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  sage;  put  in  one  egg,  make  into  little 
balls  and  fry  in  butter  or  drippings.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Meat  Loaf  No.  1 — Two  pounds  of  chopped  meat  (beef 
or  veal)  ;'mix  with  half  a  can  or  four  large  tomatoes  peeled 
and  cooked  tender,  half  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  onion 
chopped,  one  egg,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  mix  and  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven.  Half  a  cup  of  pork  sausage  may  be  added  if 
desired.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Meat  Loaf  No.  2 — Three  pounds  of  chopped  beef  or  veal, 
three  well-beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  cream,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  one  nutmeg  grated,  and  flour  rolled  crackers. 


54  ADVERTISEMENTS 


Orders  called  for  and  delivered    to   San   Anselmo,    Ross   and    Kentfield 

A.  DECOURTIEUX 

Dealer  in   Special  Selected  Meats 

Phone  Main  I«;2  Temporary    San    Francisco    Address: 

•PV«,-«VI  on/1  r»  Qto  Market  and  llth,   after   Oct.  1st,  1908, 

Fourth  and  D  Sts.  Permanent  Address,  California  Mar^ 

San  Rafael  ket.    Telephone  Mkt  929 

Telephone  San  Rafael  21  Branch  Office — Cor.  A  and  Second  Sts. 

F.  P.  Grady  &   Co. 

Successors  to  Grady  &  Grady 

Dealers  in  Feed  and  Fuel 

Main  Office  and  Yard— S.  W.  Cor.  Fourth 

and  Ida  Sts.,   Opposite   West  End  Depot.  San  Rafael,  Cal. 

Particular  Attention  Paid  to  Trotting  Phone  Suburban  52 

and  Carriage  Horses 

W.  E.  DOYLE 

Fashion    Shoeing    Shop 

Whitmore  Tract  Ross  Station,   Cal. 

High  Grade  Established  1866  Low  Prices 

JOE    POHEIM 

THE  TAILOR 

806-812  Market  St.  13-15  Ellis  St.  San  Francisco 

No  Kitchen  Complete  \Vithout  a  Universal  Bread-mixer 

4  Loaf  Size  $2.00  8  Loaf  Size  $2.50 

—at— 

JOHNSON    HARDWARE   COMPANY 

Phone  San  Rafael  32  408  B  Street  San  Rafael 

Wm.  Martiuelli  Phone  Suburban  15  Geo.  McDermott 

Ross   Avenue   Market 

Dealers  in  choice  quality  of    Beef,  Mutton,  Veal,  Pork, 
Hams,  Lard,  Etc.  Orders  called  for  and  delivered. 

Branch  at  3547  2;th  St.,  S.  F.  San  Anselmo 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  55 

Make  into  a  loaf  and  bake,  basting  as  you  do  with  other 
meats.  Use  one  pound  of  pork  chopped  fine,  with  beef,  not 
with  veal.  If  pork  is  used  omit  the  salt. 

Meat  Pie  With  Potato  Crust— Take  cold  meat  and  half 
fill  a  baking  dish  to  suit  size  of  family.  Put  sliced  meat  into 
a  stewpan  with  any  gravy  that  you  have,  a  lump  of  butter 
and  a  bit  of  sliced  onion ;  thicken  it  by  dredging  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour ;  cover  it  up  on  the  fire  where  it  may  stew 
gently,  but  not  be  in  danger  of  burning.  Meanwhile  there 
must  be  boiled  a  sufficient  quantity  of  potatoes  to  fill  baking 
dish  after  the  stewed  meat  has  been  transferred  to  it.  The 
potatoes  must  be  mashed  and  beaten  up  with  milk  and  but- 
ter, then  place  a  thick  layer  of  potatoes  on  top  of  the  meat, 
brush  it  over  with  egg,  place  the  dish  in  over  and  let  it 
brown.  Have  a  good  quantity  of  gravy  left  with  the  meat 
that  the  meat  may  not  be  dry  and  tasteless.  Serve  with  to- 
mato sauce.  Any  kind  of  left  over  vegetables  may  be  used 
before  adding  potatoes.  This  is  a  good  plain  dish. 

Mrs.  B.  Follows. 

Meat  Roily  Polly — Take  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
beef  and  half  a  pound  of  fresh  pork  chopped  fine ;  add  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  six  crackers  rolled 
fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch,  one  onion  (fried  in  but- 
ter and  cut  fine^,  one  piece  of  garlic,  about  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  cloves  and  allspice,  or  thyme  or  mace.  Make  into 
small  balls.  Have  leaves  of  cabbage  boiled  tender  in  salt 
and  water;  put  meat  ball  in  cabbage  leaf  and  roll  up  tight; 
put  in  pan  with  lard,  oil  or  butter  and  cook  about  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour.  Cover  pan  and  turn  once  in  a  while. 

Mrs.  A.  Fauth,  San  Anselmo. 

Mock  Duck — Soak  three  cups  of  stale  bread  in  water  as- 
for  dressing.  Fry  one  onion  in  butter  until  done  but  not 
brown,  and  add  to  the  bread.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
sage.  Take  a  nice  round  steak  cut  rather  thick,  spread  the 
dressing  on  the  steak  and  roll  as  you  would  jelly  cake;  tie 
with  string  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  three-fourths  of  art 
hour.  Mrs.  0.  Sirard. 


56  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Boiled  Lamb  and  String  Beans — Boil  a  piece  of  shoulder 
with  onions,  cloves,  salt,  pepper  and  any  other  seasoning 
desired.  Boil  for  a  short  time,  then  add  string  beans,  allow- 
ing about  one  hour  for  the  string  beans.  Boil  all  together 
and  when  tender  thicken  the  broth  with  flour  and  serve 
with  the  string  beans.  Mrs.  L.  S. 

Liver  Hash — Cut  cold  braised  or  stewed  liver  into 
pieces  about  the  size  of  Lima  beans.  A  gravy  is  next  in  or- 
der. For  a  pint  of  meat  cook  together  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  until  brown  and  then  add 
a  scant  cupful  of  cold  water  and  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  for  each  pint  of  meat  beyond  the  first,  increase  pro- 
portionately the  quantities  of  ingredients  for  the  gravy.  As 
soon  as  this  sauce  boils  up  put  the  liver  into  it.  Simmer 
gently  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice.  Serve  very  hot.  M.  P. 

Muttonettes — Take  leg  chops  about  half  an  inch  thick.  On 
each  chop  lay. a  spoonful  of  stuffing  made  with  bread  crumbs, 
beaten  egg,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  sage  and  summer  savory. 
Roll  up  the  slices,  pinning  with  woolen  toothpicks  to  keep 
the  dressing  in.  Put  a  little  butter  and  water  in  a  baking 
pan  with  the  muttonettes  and  cook  in  hot  oven  about  half 
to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Baste  often  and  when  done 
thicken  the  gravy  and  serve  on  hot  platter.  Garnish  with 
parsley.  Mrs.  H.  N.  Thornton. 

Pot  Roast — Get  a  piece  of  the  cross  rib  of  beef  large 
enough  for  the  family ;  have  it  pierced  with  salt  pork.  Put 
some  oil  in  a  frying  pan;  add  an  onion  chopped  fine  and  a 
piece  of  garlic.  When  hot  add  meat  and  brown  on  four 
sides;  then  put  all  into  pot;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
one  large  or  two  small  bay  leaves,  half  a  flat  teaspoonful  of 
cloves  and  allspice  and  half  a  cup  of  hot  water:  let  it  cook 
about  two  hours  and  a  half — longer  if  it's  a  large  piece; 
then  add  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  a  few  dried  mushrooms 
utes;  cut  in  small  pieces  and  let  cook  about  half  an  hour. 
Thicken  gravy  with  a  little  flour  dissolved  in  cold  water. 

L.  M.  W. 

Shepherd's  Pie — Cut  up  enough  cold  roast  beef  to  make 
a  quart  of  small,  thin  slices.  Season  the  meat  with  salt  and 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  57 

pepper,  and  after  putting  it  into  a  deep  earthen  dish,  pour 
over  it  a  sauce  made  as  follows:  Put  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  into  a  frying  pan  and  when  it  has  become  hot,  add 
two  scant  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Stir  until  this  is  dark 
brown,  and  then  add  a  pint  of  water.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  boil  for  three  minutes.  Pare,  boil  and  mash 
eight  good-sized  potatoes ;  then  add  to  them  a  cupful  of  boil- 
ing milk,  a  tablespconful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Spread  this  preparation  over  the  meat  and  sauce, 
beginning  at  the  sides  of  the  dish,  and  working  toward  the 
center.  Bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Other  meats  besides 
roast  beef  can  be  used  in  a  shepherd's  pie.  M.  P. 

Sheep's  Tongues  With  Tomato  Sauce — Boil  the  tongues 
until  tender  when  pierced  with  a  fork,  remove  the  skins  and 
cut  lengthwise.  Put  in  a  saucepan  a  carrot,  an  onion  (both 
cut  in  small  pieces)  very  little  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,. 
a  clove  of  garlic  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Simmer 
for  ten  minutes,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  in  half 
a  pint  of  tomatoes  and  one  cup  of  soup  stock.  Boil  for  half 
an  hour;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  strain,  heat  up  with 
t!ie  tongues  and  serve.  This  is  sufficient  for  six  tongues. 

Mrs.  H.  X.  Thornton. 

Steak  a'  1'  Allemande — Two  cups  of  finely  chopped  cold 
meat,  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  celery,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste,  three  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  and  enough 
gravy  or  stock  to  moisten.  Add  to  this  a  beaten  egg;  knead 
all  well  together  with  the  hands ;  form  into  a  flat  steak  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty  minutes,  basting  frequently 
with  hot  water  and  butter.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Plank  Beef  Steak — Cover  a  good  Porterhouse  or  ten- 
derloin beef  steak  with  chopped  onions,  season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper,  smear  all  over  with  butter.  Surround  steak 
with  either  mashed  or  sliced  potatoes  and  well  cooked  car- 
rots and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  about  ten  minutes;  serve  on 
hot  plates.  Mrs.  X.  J.  H. 

Spanish  Steak — Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter, 
three  pounds  of  round  steak,  cut  two  and  one-half  inches 
thick.  Place  in  the  oven  in  a  pan  with  a  little  water  and 


58  RECIPES  .FOR  COOKING 

cook  thirty  minutes;  then  cover  with  a  layer  of  sliced  raw 
onions.  Cook  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  add  a  layer 
-of  sliced  tomatoes;  cook  until  tender;  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese,  and  wiien  browned  serve  with  a  gravy  made  from  the 
liquor  in  the  pan.  G.  H. 

Pigs  in  a  Blanket — Cut  into  pieces  two  inches  square  as 
much  round  steak  as  you  desire  to  use.  Place  in  each  piece 
a  thin  slice  of  bacon.  Roll  and  tie  the  pieces  of  steak  at 
-each  end ;  fry  same  in  saucepan  until  brown,  then  cover  with 
•"hot  water.  Add  to  above  one  onion  chopped  fine  and  fried 
in  butter.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  let  cook 
-one  hour.  When  ready  to  serve  take  out  the  pigs  and 
thicken  gravy;  then  pour  over  the  pigs.  Serve  with  mashed 
potatoes.  Mrs.  Sirard. 

Spare  Ribs — Boil  spare  ribs  in  just  enough  water  to 
cover,  with  one  onion  sliced  fine,  a  bay  leaf,  cloves,  salt  and 
pepper.  When  tender  remove  spare  ribs  and  allow  the  water 
to  boil  down  until  nothing  remains  but  the  fat.  Return 
spare  ribs  to  the  saucepan  and  brown  carefully  in  the  fat. 

Mrs.  F.   0.   S. 

Braised  Sweetbreads— Soak  a  pair  of  sweet- 
breads in  cold  salted  water  for  an  hour.  Parboil  them  for 
ten  minutes,  then  plunge  into  cold  water  enough  to  cover, 
to  which  has  been  added  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  When 
cold,  remove  skin  and  cut  into  half  inch  slices. 

Sweetbreads  With  Mushrooms — Parboil  sweetbreads,  al- 
lowing eight  medium-sized  ones  to  a  can  of  mushrooms ;  cut 
the  sweetbreads  about  a  half  of  an  inch  square,  stew  until 
tender ;  slice  mushrooms  and  stew  in  the  liquor  for  one  hour, 
then  add  to  the  sweetbreads  a  coffee  cupful  of  cream,  pep- 
per and  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Tripe  Lyonnaise  No.  1— Slice  about  two  pounds  of  tripe 
in  long  strips ;  scald  in  boiling  water  well  salted.  Cook  one 
pound  of  sliced  onions  with  a  lump  of  butter.  When  well 
cooked  add  the  tripe,  one  glass  of  white  wine,  pepper,  salt 
.and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Cook  all  together  for  ten 
..minutes  on  a  quick  fire  and  serve.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Pesenti. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  59 

Lyonnaise  Tripe  No.  2 — Clean  and  boil  a  fresh  honey- 
comb tripe,  then  cut  into  strips  about  two  and  a  half  inches 
long  and  half  an  inch  wide,  sufficient  to  make  two  cups.  Put 
in  a  pan  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  draw  out  the  water, 
then  drain.  Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  a  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  finely  chopped  onion ;  cook  to  a  light  brown,  and  add 
the  tripe,  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  minced  parsley,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  vinegar  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Simmer  for 
five  minutes  and  serve  plain,  or  on  toast.  G.  H. 

Veal  Birds — Cut  two  pounds  of  thin  veal  steak  into 
small  squares,  rejecting  all  bone.  Season  lightly  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  Have  ready  a  dressing  of  cracker  crumbs, 
moistened  with  cream  and  well  seasoned.  Place  a  table- 
spoonful  of  dressing  in  the  center  of  each  square,  roll  the 
meat,  and  skewer  into  shape  with  a  toothpick.  Fry  a  golden 
brown  or  bake  in  the  oven.  G.  H. 

Blanquette  of  Veal — Cut  into  two-inch  square  pieces  two 
and  a  half  pounds  of  the  breast  of  veal  and  cover  with  cold 
water;  boil  and  be  careful'to  skim  off  all  the  scum.  Add  a 
bouquet  of  vegetables,  six  small  onions,  two  good  pinches  of 
salt  and  pepper;  cook  for  forty  minutes.  Melt  about  one 
ounce  and  a  half  of  butter  in  another  saucepan*;  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  well  for  three  minutes; 
moisten  with  one  pint  of  broth  from  the  veal  and  boil  for 
five  minutes  and  set  on  one  side  of  stove.  Beat  in  a  bowl 
three  egg  yolks  with  juica  of  one  lemon,  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg;  take  the  preparation  in  the  saucepan,  gradually 
adding  the  egg  yolks  that  are  in  the  bowl,  beating  briskly 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  Throw  this  over  the  veal  and  lightly 
toss  the  whole,  being  careful  that  it  does  not  boil.  Serve 
at  once.  Mrs.  G. 

Boned  Chicken — This  is  nice  for  picnics.  First  take 
aut  the  breast  bone  ;then  remove  the  back  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  next  the  leg  bones;  keep  the  skin  unbroken,  and  push 
within  it  the  meat  of  the  legs.  Fill  the  body  with  alternate 
layers  of  parboiled  tongue,  veal,  force-meat,  the  liver  of  the 
fowl,  thin  slices  of  bacon,  or  aught  else  of  good  flavor,  which 
will  give  a  marbled  appearance  to  the  fowl  when  served,  then 
sew  up  and  truss  as  usual. 


60  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


POULTRY 


Chicken  Casserole — Season  chicken  inside  well  with 
salt  and  pepper;  lay  in  casserole  (or  earthen  dish)  with 
pieces  of  butter  laid  on  top ;  cover  firmly,  and  cook  slowly. 
Put  in  separate  pan  French  carrots  quartered,  small  onions, 
sweetbreads,  chicken  livers,  mushrooms  and  the  hearts  of 
artichokes;  bake  in  oven  until  nearly  done.  When  cooked 
add  a  little  white  wine,  boil  all  together  for  a  few  minutes, 
season  and  pour  the  whole  in  the  casserole  with  chicken. 
Cover  tightly  and  bake  until  chicken  is  done.  Serve  in 
•casserole.  Mrs.  G.,  San  Anselmo. 

Creamed  Chicken — Cut  up  enough  cold  chicken  to  make 
a  cupful,  dice  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  cut  up  enough  cel- 
ery for  a  half  a  cup.  Stew  the  celery  until  tender  in  a  very 
little  salted  water.  Make  a  pint  .of  white  sauce  with  milk ; 
put  in  the  chicken,  celery  and  potatoes  and  beat  well.  Just 
before  serving  stir  in  a  well-beaten  egg.  Pour  over  slices 
of  buttered  toast  and  serve  very  hot.  Mrs.  Leach. 

Fried  Chicken,  Southern  Style — Prepare  chickens  as  for 
roasting;  joint  and  parboil;  season  well;  roll  in  flour  and  fry 
.a  nice  brown  in  half  butter  and  lard ;  fry  hominy  (that  has 
been  previously  boiled  and  seasoned)  in  slices  and  lay  around 
the  chicken.  Make  a  gravy  in  the  pan  with  flour  and  a 
cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Rice  may  be  used  instead  of 
liominy. 

Spring  Chicken — Split  the  chickens  down  the  back,  lay 
them  breast  down  on  a  baking  pan,  filling  the  depression  in- 
side the  ribs  with  equal  quantities  of  finely  minced  onion, 
•carrot,  celery  and  peas ;  season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of 
paprika,  adding  a  generous  lump  of  butter  for  each  bird. 
Pour  into  the  baking  pan  half  a  cup  of  hot  water  to  which 
has  been  added  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup,  and 
cook  in  a  hot  oven  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  vegetables  are 
tender,  basting  frequently.  Remove  the  vegetables  and 
turn  the  chickens  to  brown  the  breasts  slightly.  Serve  them 
covered  with  a  sauce  made  from  the  same  vegetables  moist- 
ened with  a  little  hot  cream.  G.  H. 


62  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.  For  Blankets  and 

SAN  RAFAEL,  CAL.,  Comforters 


Chicken  Stew,  Spanish  Style — Take  one  good-sized 
chicken,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  in  stewpan  with  water 
enough  to  cover.  Add  two  green  peppers,  being  careful  to 
take  out  all  the  seeds,  one  small  carrot  and  an  onion.  Let 
simmer  until  well  done,  then  add  one  can  of  mushrooms,  one 
of  French  peas,  one-half  can  of  tomatoes  and  a  little  parsley. 
Let  all  come  to  a  boil  again,  make  a  cream  gravy  to  pour  over- 
all, and  serve  with  crisp  toast.  Mrs.  Larkins. 

Ducks  Braised — Draw  and  singe  a  pair  of  ducks,  wipe 
them  inside  and  out  with  a  damp  cheese  cloth.  Line  a 
small  pan  with  thin  slices  of  bacon,  sprinkle  the  bottom  with 
minced  parsley,  thyme,  grated  lemon  peel  and  a  little  finely 
chopped  onion.  Lay  the  ducks  in,  cover  with  a  sliced  car- 
rot, three  or  four  whole  cloves,  a  tablespoonful  of  currant 
jelly  and  a  cup  of  stock.  Set  over  the  fire  and  let  simmer  one 
hour,  basting  frequently.  Slice  one  large  turnip,  fry  it  in 
butter,  turn  into  the  saucepan,  take  up  the  ducks  and  set 
to  keep  wrarm ;  let  the  turnip  cook  for  ten  minutes ;  take  the 
slices  up,  arrange  on  the  dish  around  the  ducks,  strain  the 
gravy,  thicken  it  with  a  little  brown  flour,  pour  over  and 
serve  the  ducks  very  hot  with  currant  jelly  and  sliced  lemon.. 

G.  H. 

To  Cook  an  Old  Fowl — Draw  and  truss  it  into  shape; 
do  not  stuff.  Put  inside  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion 
and  a  dusting  of  salt  and  pepper.  Brown  it  quickly  in  a 
hot  oven,  then  roll  it  in  oiled  paper,  replace  it  in  the  pan, 
add  a  cupful  of  hot  water,  cover  with  another  pan  and  cook 
slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  M.  H. 

Broiled  Grouse — Split  the  birds  down  the  back.  Lay 
a  folded  towel  on  the  breast  and  strike  hard  with  the  vege- 
table masher;  this  will  flatten  the  breastbone.  Now  wipe 
clean,  and  then  dredge  with  plenty  of  salt  and  a  little  pep- 
per. Rub  soft  butter  over  the  bird,  and  dredge  thickly  with 
flour.  Broil  over  a  clear  fire  for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve- 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  63 

on  a  hot  dish  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  In  the  time 
given,  the  meat  will  be  rare ;  if  liked  better  done,  broil  for 
twenty  minutes.  M.  P., 

Roast  Turkey — Singe,  draw  and  wash  a  turkey;  rub  it 
both  inside  and  out  with  one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Stuff  it 
with  chestnut  stuffing  and  truss  it.  Rub  the  back  lightly 
and  the  chest  and  legs  thickly  with  soft  butter,  and  dredge 
with  flour.  Place  the  turkey  on  its  back  on  the  rack  in  the 
dripping  pan.  Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  in  the  panr 
and  place  it  in  hot  oven.  Watch  to  see  that  the  turkey  does 
not  get  scorched,  and  turn  pan  that  the  turkey  may  be 
browned  on  all  sides.  When  it  has  been  in  the  oven  twenty- 
'five  minutes,  begin  to  baste  with  the  water  in  pan,  and  salt, 
pepper  and  flour.  Baste  every  fifteen  minutes  until  it  is 
done.  Be  careful  that  the  water  in  the  pan  does  not  boil 
dry.  In  the  last  fifteen  minutes,  baste  the  breast  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  a  slight  dredging  of 
flour.  M.  P. 

A  Creole  Stew — Draw,  singe  and  disjoint  a  chicken ;  put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  three  good- 
sized  onions  cut  in  very  thin  slices;  cook  until  the  onion  is 
soft  without  browning.  Put  in  the  chicken,  the  tougher 
pieces  first,  then  the  white  meat  on  top.  Add  half  a  pint  of 
finely  chopped  celery,  and  sufficient  strained,  stewed  to- 
mato to  cover  the  chicken,  about  one  quart.  Simmer  gently 
for  one  hour.  Add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  sweet 
pepper  chopped  fine.  Have  ready  one  pint  of  fresh  corn 
cut  from  the  cob,  or  one  can  of  corn;  spread  this  over  the 
top;  cover  and  heat  thoroughly.  Dish  the  chicken  in  the 
middle  of  a  large  platter,  put  the  corn  on  top  and  strain  over 
the  sauce.  Serve  with  plain,  boiled  rice.  M.  P. 

Spanish  Stew — Take  a  couple  of  tender  spring  chickens,, 
about  two  to  two  and  a  half  pounds  each ;  dress  and  cut  up 
into  small  joints  and  put  the  chickens  into  a  porcelain-lined 
pot;  add  a  can  of  tomatoes,  five  medium-sized  onions,  four 
cloves  of  garlic,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  six  small  red 
peppercorns  and  salt  to  taste.  Cook  on  a  slow  fire  for  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  add  a  can  of  early  June  peas. 


64  ADVERTISEMENTS 

M.  J.  HODGE,  President  and  Manager 

HODGE  LIMBER  and  SUPPLY  CO. 

Dealers  in 

Pine  and  Redwood  Lumber,   Lath,   Redwood  and 
Red  Cedar  Shingles 

Brick,  Lime,  Cement,  Sand,  Gravel,  Crushed  Rock,   Plaster, 
Sewer  Pipe,  Etc. 

San  Anselmo,      -  California 

Deysher    &    LaFargue 

GENERAL  BLACKSMITHS 
AND  HORSESHOERS 

Horses  Clipped  by  Phone  Suburban  22 

Electricity  San   Anselmo,   Cal. 

ICE  CREAM  CANDIES  CONFECTIONERY 

Mrs.  M.  Needham 

FANCY    GROCERIES 

Phone  Suburban  213 
OPPOSITE  STATION  SAN  ANSELMO 

E.  S.  RAKE,  Pres.  R.  H.  WARDEN,  Sec  y 

C.  Grosjean  £k?  Co. 

INCORPORATED 


717  Fourth  St. 
'Telephone  Main  59  San  Rafael 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  65 

and  let  the  whole  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Thicken 
broth  a  little  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  the  yolk 
of  an  egg.  Mrs.  Harry  J.  Clinch. 

Chestnut  Stuffing  for  Turkey — Shell  and  blanch  fifty 
chestnuts,  and  boil  for  half  an  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover 
them.  Drain  off  the  water,  and  add  to  the  nuts  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Mix  these  ingredients  and  stuff 
the  turkey  with  them.  The  chestnuts  will  be  whole,  dry, 
sweet  and  tender  cooked  in  this  manner.  M.  P. 


66  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


ENTREES 


Chicken  Fricassee — Clean,  chop  and  dry  chicken.  Fry 
in  pan  with  enough  olive  oil  to  cover  bottom ;  drop  in  a  large 
onion  chopped  fine  with  half  a  small  head  of  garlic  mixed 
with  a  little  parsley.  When  fried  brown,  add  one  cup  ol 
boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  for  one  hour;  then  add  one 
pint  of  green  peas;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste; 
when  all  cooked  add  three  eggs  well  beaten  and  mixed  quick, 
just  before  serving.  Mrs.  E.  Decham. 

Chicken  Fricassee,  Italian  Style — Put  some  olive  oil  in  a 
saucepan  and  when  hot  put  in  your  chickens,  that  have 
already  been  cut  up  in  small  pieces;  let  them  get  a  little 
brown  and  then  add  a  good-sized  onion,  salt,  pepper,  a  little 
thyme  and  allspice;  then  add  a  few  tomatoes  and  let  simmer 
until  tender.  Mrs.  Rossi,  S.  A. 

White  Fricassee  of  Chicken — Free  a  cooked  fowl  of  skin, 
bones  and  fat.  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  the  fry- 
ing pan,  and  when  it  has  become  hot,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour ;  mix  until  smooth  and  frothy ;  then  gradually  add  a 
pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  fowl  has  been  boiled,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  this  gravy  boils  upr 
add  the  meat  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes;  then  add  half  a 
cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  and  boil  up  once.  Serve  on  a  hot 
dish,  with  a  garnish  of  toast.  M.  P. 

Fricassee  of  Chipped  Beef— Shred  half  a  pound  of  beef; 
if  too  salt,  freshen  by  pouring  hot  water  over  it  and  letting 
it  stand  a  few  minutes ;  drain  and  dry ;  then  put  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter  into  a  saucepan  (have  a  slow  fire, 
as  little  heat  is  desired)  ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and 
blend  well  through  the  meat ;  then  add  two  cups  of  milk  and 
one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  Kitchen  Bouquet  and  let  sim- 
mer for  five  minutes ;  add  two  yolks  slightly  beaten  and  take 
from  the  stove.  C.  H.,  Redding. 

Crab  Croquettes — Chop  crab,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  three  pounds  of  melted  butter ;  moisten  well  with  milk ; 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


stiffen  slightly  with  bread  crumbs  -and  add  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  Form  into  croquettes  and  roll  in  egg  and  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

Rice  Croquettes  a  la  Parmesan — For  eighteen  croquettes 
use  half  a  cupful  of  raw  rice,  three  gills  of  stock,  one  cupful 
of  stewed  tomato,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne,  one  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice,  four  eggs  and  crumbs  for  breading.  Wash  the 
jv".e,  and  putting  it  in  a  stewpan  with  the  stock  boil  it  for 
ten  minutes.  Now  add  the  strained  tomato,  the  onion  juice, 
salt  and  cayenne,  and  COOK  for  twenty  minutes  longer.  When 
the  rice  has  been  cooking  for  half  an  hour,  try  a  few  grains 
and  if  they  be  tender,  add  the  cheese  and  two  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten.  Stir  for  one  minute,  and  take  from  the  fire 
immediately.  Spread  on  a  platter  and  set  away  to  cool. 
When  cold  shape,  and  then  spread  with  the  remaining  two 
eggs  and  the  crumbs.  Fry  for  one  minute  and  a  half.  Ar- 
range on  a  warm  napkin  and  serve  very  hot.  M.  P. 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes — For  eight  croquettes  use 
enough  boiled  sweet  potatoes  to  make  a  pint  when  mashed, 
half  a  cupful  of  hot  milk,  two  generous  tablespoonfuls  of 
l-utter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs  and  some  crumbs 
for  dressing.  When  the  potatoes  have  been  mashed  smooth 
and  light,  beat  into  them  the  hot  milk,  and  then  the  salt  and 
butter.  Next  beat  one  egg  until  light,  and  beat  this  into 
the  mixture,  which  should  now  be  made  into  cro.quettes. 
Beat  the  second  egg  in  a  soup  plate.  Cover  the  croquettes 
with  this  egg,  and  roll  them  in  the  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in 
fat  until  they  turn  a  rich  brown.  Serve  at  once. 

Veal  Croquettes — To  one  pint  of  chopped  cold  veal  (beef 
may  be  used)  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  or  rich  milk.  To  this 
quantity  put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  creamed  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour;  put  all  save  the  meat  over  the  fire 
to  thicken;  season  it  to  taste  and  pour  over  the  meat;  mix 
thoroughly  and  form  into  shape ;  roll  in  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  brown,  or,  if  preferred,  bake.  Mrs.  Leach. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  69 


For  Lenten  Dish — Egg  Timbales  with  Tomato  Sauce — 
Slightly  beat  six  eggs,  adding  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne,  ten  drops  of  ouion  juice  and  one  and 
one-fourth  cupfuls  of  milk.  Pour  this  mixture  into  buttered 
timbale  cups;  place  them  in  moderate  oven  until  set  in  the 
center ;  then  test  with  a  silver  knife ;  when  it  comes  out  clear 
they  are  done.  Have  ready  a  cream  sauce  made  with  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  Hour  and  a  cupful 
of  milk,  also  half  a  cupful  of  strained  tomatoes.  If  the  latter 
is  very  acid  add  a  pinch  of  baking  powder.  Take  both  from 
the  fire  a  minute  before  serving ;  turn  the  timbales  out  on  a 
platter,  gradually  add  the  tomato  to  the  sauce,  stirring  well; 
then  pour  round  the  timbales  and  garnish  writh  sprigs'  of 
parsley.  Mrs.  N.  J.  Hoey. 

Frogs  a  la  Poulette — Boil  frogs,  one  can  of  mushrooms 
(sliced  thin),  one  can  of  trouffles,  a  little  salt,  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  together  with  enough  white  wine  to  scarcely 
cover  all.  Cook  about  five  minutes.  In  a  separate  bowl 
have  ready  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  pint  of  rich  cream,  a 
dash  of  paprika,  and  also  of  nutmeg ;  stir  this  until  thorough- 
ly blended.  Strain  the  wine  from  the  frogs  into  the  bowl; 
stir  quickly  s'o  that  it  does  not  curdle,  then  pour  back  into 
the  saucepan  over  frogs  and  shake  well  over  hot  fire  until 
the  sauce  is  quite  thick.  Do  not  boil.  Serve  with  small 
pieces  of  dry  buttered  toast  or  in  patties.  Can  cook  sweet- 
breads, chickens  (small  fryers)  or  oysters  in  the  same  way. 

Mrs.  G.,  San  Anselmo. 

Apple  Fritters— Beat  three  eggs  very  lightly,  then  stir 
in  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint 
of  milk,  two  cups  of  sliced  or  chopped  apple,  and  two  cups 
of  flour.  Stir  all  well  together  and  fry  as  pancakes.  Use 
with  sugar  or  syrup. 

Banana  Fritters  No.  1 — Beat  three  eggs  very  lightly, 
then  stir  in  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 


70 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


S.  H.  Cheda,  Pres. 


Geo.  C.  Hansen,  Cashier 


Mann  Co.  Bank 

Commercial    and 
Savings 

Safe  Deposit  Vault  San  Rafael,  Cal. 


T.  S.  Malone,  Prop. 


George  B.  Hund,  Mgr. 


Malone  s    Pharmacy 

DRUGS,  ICE  CREAM,  CANDIES,  and  All 
Kinds  of  Photo  Supplies 


Opposite  Station 
Phone  Suburban  13 


San  Anselmo 


The  Laurel  Grove  Nursery 

H.  Schluter,  Prop. 

Recommends  its  fine  collection  of  Ferns,  Begonias,  Palms  for  house  and 
porch.     All  kinds  of  flowering  Plants  for  the  garden.  ::  :. 

For  Winter  Planting. 

A  complete  assortment  of  Fruit  Trees,  Berry  Vines  and  Plants.  All  kind 
of  Roses,  Shrubs,  Trees,  (ornamental  and  flowering).  Oranges,  Lemons 
Palms  at  Wholesale  and  Retail.  ::  ::  ::  ::  :: 

Telephone  Main  4553 


San  Rafael,  Cal. 


J.  Fonnesbeck,  Pres. 

Phone  Suburban  41 


Marin  Feed  &  Fuel  Co, 

Hay,  Grain,  Mill-Feeds 
Wood  and  Coal 

Creek  Sand  and  Gravel  a  Specialty 
San  Anselmo          -  California 


H,  P,  PROCTOR 

The  Jeweler 

San  Rafael  California 


Goto 

The  Racket  Store 

FOR  GOODS  AND  PRICES 

605  4th  St.  San  Rafael,  Cal. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  71 

one  pint  of  milk,  two  cups  of  sliced  bananas  and  two  cups 
of  flour.  Stir  all  well  together  and  fry  as  pancakes.  Use 
with  sugar  and  syrup. 

Banana  Fritters  No.  2 — Cut  bananas  in  long  slices  after 
peeling  and  soak  a  few  minutes  in  a  little  wine  and  sugar 
or  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Make  a  batter  with  three-fourths 
of  a  cup  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  warm  water.  Stir  until  smooth. 
Make  batter  an  hour  or  two  before  using  it ;  just  before  using 
stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Dry  bananas 
and  clip  them  in  batter  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat.  Sprinkle 
powdered  sugar  over  each  piece  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch.  S.  A. 

Bell  Fritters — (Nice  Entree) — Bring  to  a  boiling  point 
one  cup  of  water,  one  pound  of  butter  and  a  little  salt ;  when 
boiling  sift  in  one  cup  of  flour  and  cook  until  it  becomes  a 
smooth  paste.  "When  cool  beat  in  four  eggs;  drop  from 
a  teaspoon  into  hot  lard  and  cook  until  light  brown.  Serve 
with  wine  souce.  E.  C.  "W..  Sausalito. 

Corn  Fritters — Six  grated  ears  of  corn  or  one  can  of 
corn,  strained  through  a  colander  and  chopped;  add  cup  of 
milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
stirred  into  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  not  beated 
but  stirred  in  well;  drop  by  the  spoonful  into  boiling  fat. 
Drain  on  paper.  Serve  hot.  Mrs.  M.  Briggs*  S.  A. 

Fritters-^One  quart  of  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter ;  h,oil  together  a  few  minutes,  then  stir  in  enough  flour 
to  make  paste  as  thick  as  mashed  potatoes.  Pour  into  a 
bowl  and  stir  until  cold.  Beat  in  six  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
add  salt  and  nutmeg.  Fry  in  plenty  of  butter  or  fat. 

German  Fritters — Make  a  sponge  of  one  and  one-third 
cupfuls  of  bread  flour  (once  sifted),  one-third  of  a  cupful 
of  sugar,  seven-eighths  of  a  cupful  of  scalded  milk  and  one- 
third  of  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  luke- 
warm water.  Cover,  and  let  rise  until  the  mixture  has 
doubled  its  bulk.  Add  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  melted  but- 
ter, one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  grated  rind  of 
half  a  lemon  and  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  thoroughly, 


72  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

cover,  and  again  let  rise  until  the  mixture  has  doubled  its 
bulk.  Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board,  roll  to  one-fourth 
of  an  inch  in  thickness,  shape  with  a  small  round  biscuit 
cutter  first  dipped  in  flour ;  cover  and  let  rise  on  the  board. 
Take  each  piece  and  hollow  in  the  center  to  form  a  nest.  In 
half  the  pieces  put  one-half  teaspoonful  of  currant  jelly  and 
quince  marmalade  mixed  in  the  proportion  of  one  part  jelly 
to  two  parts  marmalade.  Brush  the  edges  of  tho  filled 
pieces  with  milk.  Cover  with  the  unfilled  pieces,  and  press 
the  edges  closely  together  with  the  fingers  first  dipped  in 
flour.  If  this  is  not  carefully  done  the  fritters  are  liable 
to  separate  during  the  frying.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain  on 
brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  L.  M. 

Meat  Fritters — Chop  enough  cold  cooked  meat  to  make 
one  cupful..  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice  and 
a  little  chopped  parsley.  Make  a  tick  batter  with  one  cup 
of  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a 
pinch  of  salt,  adding  milk  enough  to  moisten  (about  one 
cup).  Put  the  meat  into  this  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot 
fat.  Cook  until  a  golden  grown  and  drain  well  before  serv- 
ing. Serve  with  tomato  sauce  or  brown  gravy. 

Peach  Fritters — One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of 
flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  two  eggs, 
beaten  separately,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Make  milk  little  more  than  lukewarm  and 
add  it  slowly  to  the  beaten  yolks,  sugar  and  salt;  next  add 
flour  and  baking  powder  ^(sifted  together)  and  lastly  the 
whites  of  eggs,  and  mix  well.  Have  quartered  about  a  dozen 
ripe  peaches,  and  drop  these,  a  few  at  a  time,  into* the  batter; 
then  drop  into  a  deep  pan  of  very  hot  lard  and  fry  until  a 
nice  light  brown.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve 
at  once  with  wine  or  lemon  sauce.  Mrs.  W.  Lemon,  S.  A. 

Fried  Hominy — Fry  a  dozen  or  more  pieces  of  bacon. 
Open  a  can  of  hominy  and  pour  off  liquid  and  fry  in  bacon 
or  ham  grease.  V.  N. 

Kidney  Saute — Take  two  beef  kidneys,  slice  and  salt 
them  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour ;  then  wash  salt  off. 
In  the  meantime  prepare  one  onion,  two  pieces  of  garlic  and 


RECIPES   FOR  COOKING  73 

a  handful  of  parsley  and  chop  all  together  very  fine.  Dry 
Sidneys  thoroughly  and  put  in  a  hot  pan  with  a  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  butter ;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  taste.  Cook  for 
five  minutes  on  a  very  quick  fire ;  add  one  wineglass  of  Sher- 
ry wine;  then  add  the  prepared  onions,  parsley  and  garlic 
and  another  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Let  cook  five  minutes 
more  and  serve.  This  is  sufficient  for  six  people. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Pesenti. 

Kidney  Saute — One  dozen  lamb  kidneys,  salt,  pepper, 
two  small  cloves  of  garlic  and  one  cupful  of  white  wine. 
"Wash,  skin  and  core  kidneys ;  cut  in  very  small  pieces.  Put 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  frying  pan  and  when  hot  put 
in  kidneys;  brown  well;  sift  over  this  one  tablespoonful  of 
fiour;  add  garlic,  chopped;  salt,  pepper  and  wine;  let  simmer 
one-half  hour.  If  it  becomes  dry  add  more  wine.  Serve 
on  buttered  toast.  Mrs.  Dodd. 

Kidney  Saute — Soak  lamb  kidneys  in  salt  water  for  a 
couple  of  hours;  cut  in  small  pieces;  roll  in  flour.  Fry 
scraps  of  bacon ;  add  onions  to  this  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown ; 
then  fry  the  kidneys.  Sprinkle  flour  over  it  all  and  brown. 
Then  add  water  to  make  the  gravy,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  bit  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and 
a  little  sherry.  Let  it  cook  slowly  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes. Mrs.  H.  S. 

French  Oyster  Patties — One  quart  of  oysters,  one  pint 
of  toasted  cracker  crumbs,  one  cup  of  cream,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  five  eggs  well  beaten,  two  small  onions,  chopped 
fine  and  fried  brown  in  a  little  butter,  the  juice  of  one  lemon 
and  one  bunch  of  celery  chopped  very  fine.  Into  the  well- 
beaten  eggs  put  the  oysters,  celery  and  cooked  onions;  sea- 
son to  taste,  then  add  the  cream,  cracker  crumbs  and  but- 
ter, and  last  of  all  the  lemon  juice.  Put  in  a  double  boiler 
and  warm  through.  Put  in  patty  shells  and  place  in  a  warm 
oven  five  minutes  before  serving.  Mrs.  0.  Sirard. 

Risotto  or  Eice  Saute — Take  one  onion  and  the  marrow 
of  one  shin  of  beef ;  chop  together  very  fine ;  put  in  saucepan. 
"When  melted  add  two  coffeecups  of  Italian  rice,  dry.  Keep 


74  RECIPES   FOR  COOKING 

stirring  on  a  very  quick  fire  until  the  color  of  gold.  Add 
one  wineglass  of  white  wine;  then  add  beef  broth  slowly  un- 
til about  as  thick  as  you  would  make  curry  and  rice.  Cook 
well.  To  make  a  very  rich  flavor  add  Italian  truffles,  sliced 
as  thin  as  possible.  Add  one-fourth  of  a  pound  unsalted 
butter  and  one  cupful  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Stir  well 
and  serve.  This  is  sufficient  for  four  people 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Pesenti. 

Spaghetti  and  Meat — One  pound  of  round  steak  and 
one  pound  of  fresh  pork  ground,  one  quart  can  of  tomatoes, 
one  head  of  celery  and  one  bunch  of  French  carrots  chopped 
fine,  one  large  onion,  garlic  to  suit,  one  Chili  pepper,  salt, 
and  one  small  cupful  of  oil.  Heat  oil  and  put  in  meat ; 
brown  meat  in  oil,  and  then  add  all  the  other  ingredients. 
Cook  for  one  hour,  stirring  constantly.  Turn  out  on  large 
platter.  Boil  two  pounds  of  spaghetti  until  well  cooked; 
drain  off  all  of  the  water  and  put  on  top  of  cooked  meat,- 
add  plenty  of  grated  cheese  on  top  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Dodd,  S.  F. 

Spanish  Tamales — The  following  ingredients  are  for  two 
dozen  tamales.  Three  dozen  ears  of  green  corn  with  the 
husks,  one  chicken,  two  dozen  Chili  peppers,  one  quart  of 
olives,  two  cups  of  good  lard.  Salt  to  season  sufficiently. 
Scrape  the  corn  from  the  cob,  mix  with  the  chicken,  cooked 
and  minced  moderately  fine,  and  add  the  other  ingredients. 
Divide  into  two  dozen  small  portions,  and  tie  up  in  the 
husks.  Steam  or  boil  until  thoroughly  done.  G.  H. 

Raviola — Filling — Twelve  eggs,  two  cloves  of  garlic, 
three  bunches  of  Italian  spinach  or  lettuce  and  two  green 
onions ;  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  thyme  and  sage  to  suit  taste ; 
three  brains,  one  saucerful  each  of  grated  cheese  and  hard- 
tack, one  cup  of  sausage  meat  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
olive  oil.  Boil  spinach  ten  minutes;  crush  until  free  from 
writer.  Parboil  brains  and  take  off  skin.  Beat  eggs  and 
add  brains  and  spinach  well  chopped;  stir  until  free  from 
lumps.  Drop  in  garlic,  parsley  and  sausage  meat  and  mix ; 
add  oil,  cheese  and  hardtack  and  stir.  Drop  in  pepper,  salt, 
thyme  and  sage.  If  not  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  spoon 
add  more  hardtack.  Be  careful  to  chop  everything  fine. 


RECIPES   FOR   COOKING  75 

Crust — Five  cups  of  macaroni  flour  and  two  eggs.  Beat 
eggs  and  add  to  flour  already  moistened  with  water.  Mix 
and  add  more  water  until  you  have  a  stiff  dough.  Divide 
dough  in  two.  Roll  out  into  separate  large  thin  crusts, 
being  careful  to  get  them  as  thin  as  possible,  but  not  break- 
ing them.  Spread  one  crust  and  then  put  a  thin  layer  of 
filling  over  top;  place  the  other  crust  over  that,  being  careful 
to  keep  them  even ;  then  seal  edges  by  pressing  them  to- 
gether with  the  finger  tips.  Impress  later  with  a  thin, 
light  stick  into  square  inches;  then  with  knife  or  sharp  in- 
strument separate  one  from  another.  Dry  a  couple  of  hours 
before  cooking.  Boil  HKC  macaroni  in  a  large  pot  until 
dough  is  soft  enough  to  suit  taste.  Drain  and  add  Italian 
gravy,  same  as  is  used  for  macaroni. 

Gravy — Chop  up  a  chicken  in  small  pieces  and  fry  in 
olive  oil  with  two  large  onions,  half  a  head  of  garlic  and  a 
little  parsley  chopped  fine.  Fry  until  brown,  then  add  half 
a  cup  of  mushrooms  that  have  been  soaked  in  a  cup  of  boil- 
Hg  water  for  ten  minutes.  Allow  water  to  stand  about  ten 
minutes  to  settle,  then  pour  in  water;  then  add  one  and 
one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  pressed  tomatoes,  dissolved  in  a 
cup  of  boiling  water;  then  add  about  five  large  tomatoes 
chopped  fine;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  boil  for  one 
and  one-half  hours.  Beef  can  be  used  in  place  of  chicken 
if  desired.  When  serving  with  any  kind  of  paste  use  grated 
cheese. 

Woodcock — Half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  extract  of  onion  and  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately;  melt  the  butter,  add  the  tomatoes  and 
heat  until  nearly  boiling ;  add  salt,  pepper  and  onions.  Pour 
in  slowly  the  beaten  yolks  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  then 
pour  in  beaten  whites ;  stir  thoroughly  and  serve  at  once  on 
slices  of  toast  or  crackers.  Mrs.  M.  Papish,  Kellogg,  Ida. 


76  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


Cheese  Pishes 


Cottage  Cheese — Put  thick  sour  milk  into  bag  and  let 
stand  a  day  with  a  weight  upon  it.  Take  cheese  and  add 
salt  and  sweet  cream  and  beat  with  a  spoon. 

English  Lemon  Cheese — Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  the  rinds  of  two  and  the  juice 
of  three  lemons,  and  .three  eggs.  Beat  the  whole  mixture 
well  together  in  a  bowl.  Set  in  pan  of  boiling  water  and 
cook  until  very  thick.  I.  M. 

Omelet  With  Cheese — Four  eggs,  one-half  of  a  cup  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  little  parsley,  pepper  and 
salt,  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  American  cheese 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  cottolene.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light; 
then  add  the  other  ingredients ;  beat  all  well  together ;  then 
pour  into  a  pan  in  which  a  large  teaspoonful  of  cottolene  is 
heated.  Let  it  cook  till  light  brown,  then  fold  it  over  and 
dish  for  the  table.  Shake  the  pan  while  the  omelet  is  cook- 
ing ;  must  be  eaten  the  instant  it  is  removed  from  the  pan. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Ryan. 

After  Dinner  Cheese  Balls — :Two  cream  cheeses,  one 
pound  of  walnuts,  four  ounces  of  sweet  cream  and  salt  to 
taste;  chop  nuts  fine,  mix  all  together, -roll  in  small  balls; 
place  on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  toasted  crackers. 

A.  G.  Fellows. 

Cheese  Fondue — When  carefully  made,  this  is  a  most 
satisfactory  dish  for  luncheon  or  supper.  The  ingredients 
are:  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cheese,  six  eggs,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-eighth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper  and  four  slices  of  toasted 
bread.  After  grating  the  cheese,  beat  the  eggs  till  they  are 
light,  and  add  to  them  the  butter,  cheese  and  seasoning. 
Turn  the  mixture  into  a  bright  saucepan,  and  setting  this 
into  another  containing  boiling  water,  stir  until  the  cheese 
is  melted  and  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  creamy.  Cut  the 
bread  into  eighj  parts,  and  lay  it  upon  a  hot  dish.  Pour  the 
fondue  over  it  and  serve  immediately  M.  P. 


78  RECIPES   FOR   COOKING 

Emergency  Dish  for  Luncheon — Cut  slices  of  bread  a 
little  thick  and  scoop  a  hollow  in  the  center  of  each,  leaving 
the  crust  as  a  rim.  Grate  some  cheese,  season  with  salt  and 
paprika,  moisten  with  milk.  Break  an  egg  into  each  piece, 
-dot  with  butter  and  bake  ten  minutes.  I.  M. 

Luncheon  Toast — Thick  slices  of  toast  are  slightly 
moistened  in  hot  water,  to  which  is  added  Worcestershire 
«auce  to  taste.  Place  on  each  a  spoonful  of  French  peas 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  the  tiny  German  onions ;  over  all  pour 
.a  cream  sauce  highly  seasoned  with  grated  cheese. 

Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Oyster  Rarebit — One  cup  of  oysters,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  cheese  cut  fine,  one-fourth  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper,  two 
eggs  and  six  slices  of  toast.  Parboil  the  oysters  and  remove 
tough  muscle.  Strain  and  reserve  liquor.  Melt  butter, 
.add  cheese,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  the  eggs,  add 
oyster  liquor  and  add  gradually  the  melted  cheese ;  add  oys- 
ters and  serve  on  toast.  Mrs!  B.  B.  Lawrence,  S.  F. 

Macaroni  Rarebit — One  pound  of  macaroni,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one-half  inch  slice  of  butter  and  half  a  pound  of 
mild  cheese  grated;  boil  macaroni  in  salted  water  twenty 
minutes ;  beat  eggs,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  but- 
ter and  cheese;  salt  and  paprika  to  taste;  pour  over  maca- 
roni and  serve  immediately  in  ramekins.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Glorified  Rarebit — Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
the  chafing  dish,  then  add  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  cream. 
When  hot  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese  and 
the  same  amount  of  potted  ham.  Boil  a  minute  or  two 
and  serve  hot  on  squares  of  toast  make  by  frying  trimmed 
squares  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick  in  butter. 

Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Cheese  Straws — One  cup  of  grated  cheese,  half  of  a  scant 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  flour,  half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  yolk  of  one  egg  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or  water.  Mix  well  together,  roll 
out  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  narrow  strips  about 
five  inches  long ;  lay  on  wet  dripping  pan,  not  touching  each 
-other,  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Mrs.  B.  B.  Lawrence. 


Puddings  and  Desserts 


Almond  Pudding — Twelve  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
one  heaping  soup  plate  of  grated  rye  bread,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  one  pound  of  almonds 
pounded  fine  and  citron  grated  fine.  J.  N. 

Batter  Pudding — One  pint  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk, 
two  eggs  beaten  separately  (add  whites  last),  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  butter  the  size  of  a  nut.  Mrs.  Briggs. 

Beefsteak  Pudding — Two  cups  of  chopped  beef  suet, 
two  cups  of  sifted  flour  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  make 
crust  and  roll  thin  and  line  pudding  bowl.  Fill  with  ten- 
derloin steak  cut  small,  six  small  kidneys,  one  tablespoonful 
•of  chopped  onion,  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and  a  few  mushrooms  if  desired. 
Fill  bowl  to  within  one-half  inch  of  the  top  with  water; 
put  on  top  crust;  pinch  round  firmly.  Scald  and  flour 
square  pudding  cloth,  lay  over  top  and  tie  firmly  around 
the  rim  with  string;  lift  up  four  corners  and  tie  again. 
Plunge  into  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly  four  hours.  If 
more  is  needed  add  boiling  water.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Bingham  Pudding — Mix  one  cup  each  of  molasses  and 
cold  water,  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  raisins 
or  currants,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt, .  and 
three  cups  of  flour.  Steam  three  hours  and  serve  hot  with 
any  desired  sauce. 

Bread  Pudding  No.  1 — One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
beaten,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  a  lump  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  little  mace. 
Bake  until  done.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  beat  in 
half  a  cup  of  sugar  or  more  (to  taste),  flavor  with  either 
vanilla  or  the  juice  of  lemon.  On  the  top  of  hot  pudding 
spread  a  glass  of  jelly  and  over  jelly  spread  egg  whites  and 
-set  in  oven  a  minute  or  so  to  brown.  Mrs.  N.  J.  Hoey. 


80  RECIPES   FOR  COOKING 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.  For  CARPET 

SAN  RAFAEL,  CAL.,  CLEANING 


Bread  Pudding  No.  2 — One  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  half  a  loaf  of  bread,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mixed  spices,, 
grated  rind  of  lemon  or  orange.  Soak  bread  in  cold  water 
until  soft,  then  squeeze;  add  other  ingredients  and  steam, 
one  hour.  Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

Bread  Pudding  No.  3 — Two  slices  of  bread  one  inch 
thick  (broken),  some  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  three 
eggs  beaten,  raisins  and  nutmeg ;  flavor ;  beat  whites  of  eggs- 
to  a  stiff  froth;  add  sugar  and  put  on  top.  Rut  in  oven, 
and  brown.  Mrs.  Briggs,  S.  A. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding — Cut  stale  bread  into  slices ;-. 
dip  in  melted  butter  and  arrange  in  a  small  baking  pan  a 
slice  of  bread  to  a  layer  of  raisins  that  have  been  carefully- 
washed  and  seeded.  When  the  pan  is  full  pour  over  it  a, 
mixture  made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
half  an  hour.  When  baked  whip  to  a  froth  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  pour  over  the  custard;  return  to  the  oven.' 
for  a  few  minutes  until  lightly  brown.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  brandy  sauce. 

Brandy  Sauce — Put  into  a  pan  two  cups  of  water  and 
a  cup  of  white  sugar.  When  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved, add  slowly  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 
which  has  been  diluted  in  cold  water.  Stir  until  clear ;  re- 
move from  fire  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy. 

Carrot  Pudding  No.  1— One  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
chopped  suet,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,, 
one  cup  of  grated  carrots,  half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  juice- 
and  rind  of  one  lemon.  Steam  three  hours. 

Mrs.   T.  P.  Jr. 

Carrot  Pudding  No.  2— One  cup  of  grated  carrot,  one- 
cup  of  grated  potatoes,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  po- 
tatoes, half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  long  cup- 


RECIPES   FOR   COOKING  81 

of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  raisins,  half  a  cup  of  currants,  half  of 
a  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  little  cloves. 
Flour  the  fruit  well.  Butter  the  tin  and  steam  three  hours. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Rice. 

Carrot  Pudding  No.  3 — One  cup  of  grated  carrots,  one 
cup  of  grated  potatoes,  one  cup  of  suet  or  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of 
raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  a  little  cloves  and  allspice,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar 
flat. 

$®®®Sx-xs^ 

PHONE  SAN  RAFAEL  71 


Chas.  H.  Wechsler 

Dealer  in 

Prime  Meats  of  All  Kinds 

423  Fourth  Street  San  Rafael,  Cal. 

®®®®CsXsX5^^ 

Sauce — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  or  flour,  a 
piece  of  butter  mixed  to  a  cream,  half  a  cup  of  cream  and 
half  a  wineglass  of"  sherry.  When  all  cooked  add  white  of 
one  egg.  Mrs.  L.,  San  Rafael. 

Chicken  Pudding — Dress  carefully  and  cut  up  neatly 
into  small  pieces ;  lay  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  boiling 
water ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  boil  slowly  until  quite 
tender;  then  take  it  up  with  what  liquor  remains  and  put 
into  a  pudding  dish.  Have  ready  one  quart  of  green  corn 
grated  (or  cut  fine)  add  to  this  three  well-beaten  eggs  and 
one  pint  of  milk.  Pour  this  mixture  over  the  chicken, 
dredge  thickly  with  flour,  lay  on  bits  of  butter;  bake  until 
done.  (Very  fine).  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Chocolate  Pudding — One  cup  of  chocolate,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  butter,  one  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  and  five  eggs.  Beat  eggs  well;  add  in  order  sugar,. 


82  RECIPES   FOR   COOKING 

melted  butter,  bread  and  chocolate.       Boil  two  and  a  half 
hours  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  W.   Lemon,   S.  A. 

Chocolate  Rice  Pudding — Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  a 
double  boiler,  and  when  hot  stir  in  a  half  cup  of  washed 
rice.  Add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
granulated  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful 
of  grated  chocolate  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cook 
about  two  hours,  stirring  often  until  good  and  thick.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream.  I.  M. 

Cocoanut  Tapioca  Pudding — Soak  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  tapioca  over  night ;  put  it  in  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  and 
boil  half  an  hour.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  a  cup 
of  sugar;  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  cocoanut;  stir 
and  boil  about  five  minutes  and  then  pour  into  a  pudding 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  put  this  over  the  top  of 
pudding;  sprinkle  cocoanut  over  it  and  put  it  in  the  oven 
to  brown.  Serve  cold.  Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch. 

Cocoanut  Pudding — Take  half  a  pound  of  dessicated 
cocoanut  and  two  thick  slices  of  bread ;  put  them  to  soak  in 
&  quart  of  milk  for  two  or  three  hours;  then  add  an  ounce 
of  butter,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  them  to  the  pudding.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Cottage  Pudding  No.  I — Three  eggs  Well  beated,  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  a  teacup  of  flour  mixed  dry  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut ;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  quick  oven ;  serve  hot. 

Sauce  for  same — One  teacupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  corn  starch,  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  tartaric  acid 
and  one-half  of  a  teacupful  of  water ;  boil  together.  If  the 
corn  starch  is  mixed  first,  dry,  with  the  sugar,  it  will  not 
lump.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Cottage  Pudding  No.  2 — One  cup  of  sour  milk,  half  a 
•cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda;  flour  to  mix.  Mrs.  Briggs. 


REICPES   FOR  COOKING  83 

Cracker  Pudding — Two  cups  of  powdered  crackers,  one 
cup  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one 
cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  four  eggs  (well  beaten),  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder.  Mix  the  baking  powder  and  cracker  meal; 
add  the  suet,  raisins  and  currants.  Pour  in  the  milk,  eggs 
and  molasses  and  stir  till  thoroughly  mixed.  Pour  into  a 
well-buttered  mold  and  boil  three  or  four  hours.  Serve  hot 
with  hard  sauce  flavored  with  brandy  or  sherry.  This  pud- 
ding will  keep  for  a  long  time  and  is  as  good  as  plum  pud- 
ding and  far  more  digestible.  Mary  A.  Brown. 

Delmonico  Pudding  No.  1 — Soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in 
three  clips  of  milk;  mix  this  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar ;  let  come  to  a  boil ;  when  almost 
set,  add  one  wineglass  of  sherry  or  whisky,  one  tablespoonful 
of  vanilla  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Have 
ready  in  a  large  dish  some  glazed  pineapple,  cherries  and 
apricots.  Pour  the  mixture  over  the  fruit  and  put  maca- 
roons on  top.  It  is  best  to  make  this  the  day  before  it  is 
to  be  used.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Miss  Chase,   Oakland. 

Dslmonico  Pudding  No.  2 — Soak  one-third  of  a  box  of 
gelatine  in  half  a  cup  of  water  for  half  an  hour;  mix  in  two 
cups  of  milk  and  a  pinch  of  baking  soda.  Put  to  boil  in  a 
double  boiler  for  a  few  minutes  until  it  thickens.  Remove 
from  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  cup  of 
: sugar.  Boil  again  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When 
cold  add  the  whites  of  the  ea'^s  beaten  stiff  and  half  a  wine- 
glass of  sherry.  Add  to  this  ten  cents  worth  of  crystallized 
cherries,  five  cents  worth  of  crystallized  pineapple,  and  fif- 
teen cents  worth  of  grated  macaroons. 

English  Carrot  Pudding — One  cup  of  finely  chopped  beef 
suet,  two  and  two-thirds  cupfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one 
cupful  of  grated  carrots.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  to- 
gether until  very  light  and  add  gradually  one  and  one-third 
cupfuls  of  brown  sugar;  combine  the  mixtures  and  add  the 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  one  tablespoonful  of  strong 
vinegar.  Mix  one  cupful  of  raisins  that  have  been  seeded 


84  ADVERTISEMENTS 


LOTS   $195.00 


$5.  Cask 
$1  a  Week 


Rocca  Brothers  8AN 


Marin  Co.,  Gal. 


The  Doherty  Company 

INCORPORATED 

Lumber  and  Mill  Work 

Telephone  Main  75  Larkspur  and  Mill  Valley 

Phone  Park  233  • 

'  TW  J.  WeLk      :  : 

John    \V\    Carey 
ASSOCIATE  ARCHITECTS 

40  Haight  Street  San  Francisco,  Cal. 

Linda  Vista  Hotel 

SANANSELMO,        ::         :=        CALIFORNIA 

An  Ideal  Summer  Resort 


Situated    in   a   Natural 

Park  of  Twenty  Acres  **  North 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  85 


and  cut  in  pieces,  and  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  currants. 
Then  dredge  with  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  flour  mixed  and 
sifted  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg 
and  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves;  add  this  to  the 
mixture ;  then  also  add  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff.  Turn  into  a  well-buttered  mold  three-quarters  full  and 
boil  for  three  and  one-half  hours.  Stand  in  the  oven  for  a 
few  minutes  before  serving.  (This  pudding  is  much  lighter 
and  more  easily  digested  than  plum  pudding  and  apparently 
as  rich).  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Fig  Pudding  No.  1 — One  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  one 
cup  of  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  of  figs  chopped  (Smyrna  figs 
are  the  best),  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
lialf  a  cup  of  sugar,  brown  or  white;  two  eggs,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  clove,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  flour  to  make  as  thick  as 
cake  dough  (about  three  cupfuls),  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Steam 
three  hours  in  a  pail  or  pudding  mold.  Mrs.  G. 

Fig  Pudding  No.  2 — One-half  pound  of  figs,  one-quarter 
pound  of  stale  bread  crumbled  fine,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  eggs  and  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk.  Chop  figs  fine,  add  bread  crumbs, 
sugar,  beaten  eggs,  milk  and  butter,  melted.  Turn  into  a 
well-greased  mold,  cover  and  steam  for  five  hours.  Serve 
with  liquid  sauce.  Mrs.  Briggs,  S.  A. 

Fruit  Pudding  No.  1 — Mix  thoroughly  in  a  bowl  two 
cups  of  apples  chopped  fine,  two  of  bananas  chopped  fine, 
two  of  seedless  raisins,  two  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one 
of  cinnamon,  one-half  of  cloves,  and  two  cups  of  sugar.  Put 
in  pudding  dish  and  bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
or  steam  three  hours.  Serve  with  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

Guido  Granucci,  San  Anselmo. 

Fruit  Pudding  No.  2 — Pour  over  half  a  loaf  of  dry  bread 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it ;  let  it  stand  until  soft ; 
drain  off  the  water,  add  three  eggs,  two  cups  of  white  sugar, 


86  RECIPES   FOR   COOKING 

a  lump  of  butter  and  one  pint  of  any  dried  fruit ;  mix  well, 
put  in  a  floured  cloth,  drop  in  boiling  water  and  boil  one 
hour;  serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Graham  Prune  Pudding — One  cup  of  graham  flour,  one 
cup  of  sour  milk,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  in  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  two  cupfuls  of 
prunes.  Steam  three  hours. 

Dorothy  Muller,  San  Anselmo. 

Graham  Pudding — Take  two  cups  of  graham  flour,  one 
eup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  raisins,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  soda;  steam  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Layer  Apple  Pudding — To  make  this  pudding  one  needs 
two  quarts  of  sliced  apples,  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,, 
half  a  cupful  of  water,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one- 
third  of  a  nutmeg  and  seven  large  slices  of  bread.  Soften 
the  butter  that  it  may  be  easily  spread.  Soak  the  bread  in 
cold  water  until  it  is  soft ;  one  minute  will  probably  be  suf- 
ficient time  if  the  slices  be  stale  and  light.  Set  out  a  pud- 
ding dish  that  holds  about  three  quarts.  Butter  the  bread 
and  put  a  layer  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Spread  half  of 
the  apples  upon  this,  and  sprinkle  the  fruit  with  half  of  the 
sugar  and  nutmeg.  Now  make  a  second  layer  of  bread, 
and  cover  it  with  the  remaining  apple,  sprinkling  with  sugar 
and  nutmeg  as  before.  Pour  the  water  into  the  dish  by 
spoonfuls.  Cover  with  a  large  plate,  and  cook  in  a  slow 
oven  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  This  is  good,  hot  or  cold, 
and  may  be  eaten  with  cream,  or  any  sweet  sauce.  M.  P. 

Marshmallow  Pudding  No  1 — (Nothing  divided  by  three) 
—Dissolve  two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in  half  cup  of  cold 
water  and  when  thoroughly  dissolved  add  half  a  cup  of  hot 
water  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  lukewarm  raid  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  stir  well  to  dissolve.  Beat  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  pour  the  gelatine  into  it ;  con- 
tinue beating  this  for  twenty  minutes  and  then  separate  into 
three  equal  parts.  Leave  one  part  white.  Color  one  part 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate  and  color  the  remaining 
third  with  half  a  cup  of  crushed  fruit.  Put  these 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  8T 


Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.  *"**"•  and 

SAN  RAFAEL,  CAL. 


parts  in  a  deep  dish,  the  brown  on  the  bottom,  th^  white  in 
the  middl  •  and  the  pink  next.  Whip  a  cup  of  cream  and 
spread  it  on  top,  and  then  sprinkle  one  cupful  of  very  finely 
chopped  nuts  over  the  cream.  In  one  hour  this  dessert  will 
be  hard  enough  to  slice  and  serve  with  plain  cake. 

Mrs.  O.  Sirard. 

Marshmallow  Pudding  No.  2 — Soak  half  a  box  of  Knox's 
gelatine  in  one  and  one-half  cups  of  cold  water.  Beat  whites 
of  three  eggs  with  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Pour  half 
a  cup  of  boiling  water  over  gelatine  and  add  gradually  the 
eggs,  beating  all  the  time.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  almond. 
Set  on  ice  two  hours.  Decorate  with  marshmallows  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream.  M.  J.  H.,  San  Anselmo. 

Nut  Pudding — One  cup  of  chopped  walnuts,  one  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  two  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately;  vanilla  flavoring.  Cook  half  an 
hour  and  serve  with  cream  or  hard  sauce.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Orange  Pudding  and  Sauce — Make  a  batter  of  two  eggs, 
a  cup  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  about 
three  cups  of  flour,  with  two  teaspoonf uls  of  .baking  powder. 
Peel  and  cut  into  bits  four  oranges ;  beat  these  into  the  bat- 
ter and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Sauce — Rub  together  five  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
one  cup  of  sugar.  Put  these  into  a  saucepan  and  pour  over 
them  one-half  cup  of  hot  water,  then  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
and  the  juice  of  two  oranges  and  half  of  a  lemon.  Beat 
with  egg  beater  until  creamy.  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Pineapple  Pudding — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
butter  and  a  pint  of  milk;  put  on  stove  and  let  come  to  a 
boil;  add  a  pinch  of  salt;  then  add  one  cup  of  flour  and 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Cook  three  minutes ;  cut  one  can  of 
pineapple  in  small  cubes,  add  that  and  half  the  juice;  then 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy,  and  lastly  the  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs.  Put  into  mold  and  let  boil  for  three 
hours.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 


88  RECIPES   FOR  COOKING 

Plum  Pudding — One  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  cur- 
rants, one  pound  of  suet,  one  pound  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  one-half 
pound  of  lemon  peel,  one-half  pint  of  brandy  and  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk.  Mix  all  together ;  boil  five  hours  in  a  tin  mold. 
Use  your  own  judgment  about  the  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  all- 
spice, cloves,  ginger  and  mace.  Miss  Laura  Harris. 

Prune  Pudding — Press  through  a  colander  one  pint  of 
stewed  prunes  sweetened  to  taste.  Dissolve  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  gelatine  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Add 
to  this  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  the  juice  of  two 
lemons.;  stir  and  thoroughly  mix  with  prune  pulp.  Beat 
whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  mix  all  together.  Add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate.  Let  stand  until  firm.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream.  Miss  C.  O'Connor,  San  Rafael. 

Puff  Pudding — One-quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Steam  in  cups  thirty-five  minutes. 

Sauce  for  Puff  Pudding — One-third  of  a  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  creamed  very  light,  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  fresh  strawberries  put  in  whole  and  beaten  hard. 

Queen  Pudding — One  pint  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  one 
quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg;  flavor;  mix  all  together  and  bake. 
When  done  put  a  layer  of  jelly  or  jam  and  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  sugar  and  browned. 

Mrs.  Briggs,  S.  A. 

Rice  Pudding  No.  1 — (Best  ever  made  in  spite  of  its 
being  the  cheapest) — One  quart  of  milk,  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rice,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ; 
flavor  with  nutmeg ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  an  hour  and 
a  half,  or  a  little  less ;  cover  dish  and  stir  a  couple  of  times 
the  first  hour.  Mrs.  Harry  Thornton. 

Seymour  Pudding — One-half  a  cup  of  black  molasses, 
one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  89' 

graham  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  half  a  cup  of  brown  sugar,  spice,  cinnamon  and  mace. 
Steam  for  three  hours. 

Sponge  Pudding  No.  1 — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  egg,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Steam  two  and  one- 
half  hours.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Sponge  Pudding  No.  2 — Half  a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  cup 
of  flour  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  together,  stirring  all 
the  time.  After  taking  from  the  stove,  stir  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Beat  six  eggs  separately;  put  yolks 
into  the  mixture ;  then  add  the  whites  lightly.  Pour  into 
an  earthen  dish  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  for  forty- 
five  minutes. 

Sauce — Beat  to  a  cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  three  of  sugar.  When  ready  for  the  table  add  a  half  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  to  which  has  been  added  a  teaspoonful 
of  corn  starch;  flavor  as  desired. 

Steam  Pudding — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one  cup  of  butter,  one- cup  of  raisins,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Steam  two- 
hours  in  steamer.  Mrs.  Briggs. 

Steam  Coffee  Pudding — One  quart  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
small  cup  of  cold  coffee,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and 
spices  to  taste.  Steam  one  hour.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  G.  Faubel,  S.  F. 

Strawberry  Cottage  Pudding — Cream  together  half  a 
cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar ;  add  one  beaten  egg,  one 
cup  of  milk,  one  pint  of  sifted  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  cake  pan  and  serve  hot  with  a 
liquid  into  which  fresh  strawberries,  washed  with  sugar,, 
have  been  stirred.  J.  N. 

Suet  Pudding  No.  1 — One  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  half  a  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half 
a  cup  of  syrup  or  molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  level  tea- 


90  RECIPES   FOR  COOKING 

spoonful  of  salt,  and  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
soda;  cinnamon,  allspice  and  nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste.  Steam 
three  hours.  Serve  hot  with  hard  or  liquid  sauce. 

Mrs.  H.  Coulter,  Sausalito. 

Suet  Pudding  No.  2 — One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
•suet  chopped  fine,  half  of  a  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  wal- 
nuts chjopped  fine,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  figs  chopped  fine, 
•one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon  and 
-one  of  nutmeg.  Steam  three  hours.  Mrs.  Briggs. 

Tapioca  Pudding — Four  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  boiled 
in  two  quarts  of  milk  until  clear;  beat  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  together  and  pour 
it  in  as  you  take  it  from  the  fire ;  flavor  with  vanilla ;  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
-sugar  and  spread  on  top.  Mrs.  Briggs. 

Tipsy  Pudding — Take  a  dozen  lady  fingers,  divide  them 
and  put  in  a  pudding  dish ;  soak  them  in  one-half  cup  of 
sherry  wine;  then  make  a  rich  custard  of  a  quart  of  milk, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  four  eggs 
beaten  well  and  a  small  piece  of  butter;  flavor  with  vanilla 
and  pour  over  lady  fingers.  Lastly,  beat  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  spread  over  top 
and  cover  that  with  chopped  nuts.  Mrs.  P.  J.  Haggarty. 

Apple  Charlotte — Take  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  and  butter 
"the  slices ;  pare  and  slice  a  dozen  apples ;  take  a  lemon,  grate 
the  skin,  and  save  the  juice ;  place  at  the  bottom  of  a  stone- 
ware baking  dish  a  layer  of  apples;  scatter  brown  sugar  on 
it,  some  of  the  lemon  gratings  and  a  little  juice;  then  put 
in  a  layer  of  the  buttered  bread;  keep  on  until  your  dish  is 
full,  having  the  crust  on  top ;  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
Do  not  make  it  too  sweet. 

Apple  Snow— Put  twelve  good  tart  apples  in  cold  water, 
set  them  over  the  fire;  when  just  soft  drain  the  water  off, 
strip  off  the  skins,  core  them,  then  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish ; 
beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  put  one-half 
pound  of  powdered  sugar  to  the  apples,  beat  them  to  a  stiff 


RECIPES   FOR  COOKING  91 

froth,  add  the  beaten  eggs;  beat  the  whole  to  a  stiff  snow; 
then  turn  into  a  dessert  dish  and  ornament  it  with  myrtle. 
(Nice  for  Christmas.)  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Apple  Torten — First  part — Peel  and  core  eight  apples; 
put  in  saucepan  to  steam  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  steam  twenty  minutes. 
Second — One  pint  of  sour  milk,  four  eggs  beaten  separately, 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  mix  all  together  and  add  to 
the  apples  and  boil  until  thick.  Be  careful  not  to  stir  so 
apples  don't  break;  add  ten  cents  worth  of  zweibach  rolled 
fine.  Grease  and  paper  pan,  put  in  part  of  zweibach  and 
then  the  mixture;  put  zweibach  around  the  side  and  cover 
the  top ;  bake  three-quarters  of  an  .hour  in  a  slow  oven.  "Whip 
half  a  pint  of  cream  and  put  on  top  when  apple"  torten  is  cold. 

T.  Romberg. 

Baked  Apples — Remove  the  cores  from  nice  tart  apples, 
leaving  a  round  hole;  put  in  a  small  bit  of  butter  and  fill 
with  sugar,  adding  a  little  flour  and  cinnamon,  with  a  drop 
or  two  of  water.  Place  apples  in  dripping  pan  and  bake  un- 
til soft. 

Baked  Custard — One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs 
very  light  and  add  to  the  milk,  then  put  in  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  well  dissolved.  Bake  with 
good  hot  oven. 

Blancmange — One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  tapioca  and 
one  cup  of  sugar.  Stir  briskly  and  boil  until  it  thickens. 
Pour  into  a  form  or  mold.  Eat  with  syrup,  jelly  of  cream. 

Egg  Cream — Juice  of  half  of  a  lemon,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  two  eggs.  Separate  the  yolks 
and  whites;  beat  yolks  with  sugar  until  well  mixed;  add 
lemon  juice  and  place  bowl  in  a  dish  of  hot  water  over  the 
fire.  Stir  slowly  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken;  then 
add  beaten  whites  and  stir  until  the  whole  forms  a  thick 
-cream.  Remove  from  the  fire,  pour  into  dishes  and  set  aside 
to  cool. 


92  RECIPES   FOR  COOKING 

To  Whip  Cream — Try  setting  the  dish  of  cream  in  a 
bowl  of  real  cold  water,  then  take  from  the  cold  water  and 
put  in  hot  water  and  the  discouraged  housewife  will  find  the 
cream  will  whip  like  magic.  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Delicious  Summer  Dessert — Lay  thick  slices  of  any  kind 
of  delicate  cake  in  deep  pudding  pan ;  over  this  pour  a  boiled 
custard  (hot)  made  of  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk, 
sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste.  Do  this  several  hours  be- 
fore dish  is  served.  Just  before  serving  put  a  layer 
of  peaches  or  oranges  over  the  cake.  Have  the  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  little  sugar  and  put  over 
the  fruit.  Put  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

Mrs.  Leach. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings — Core  the  apples  and  peel;  cut 
each  apple  in  quarters  and  hold  together  again.  Fill  center 
with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  butter,  cover  with  a  rich  pie  crust 
and  pinch  together  at  the  top  of  each  apple.  Put  in  a  bak- 
ing pan  and  pour  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan  a  thin  paste  made 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  hot  water.  Bake  slowly  until  done. 
Serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Marshall-Ozias — Slice  six  oranges  and  six  bananas. 
Sweeten  the  oranges  if  necessary,  and  put  in  a  deep  dish  in 
layers  with  some  macaroons  between  each  layer.  Sprinkle 
chopped  English  walnuts  on  the  top  and  then  cover  with 
whipped  cream.  Very  nice  served  with  sponge  cake  or 
angel  cake. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  Marshall  and  Mrs.  J.  Howard  Ozias. 

Orange  Mountain — For  the  cream  take  one  pint  of  milk 
and  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar;  put  in  a  double  boiler. 
Take  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  wet  with  a  little 
water;  add  to  it  two  beaten  egg  yolks  and  a  pinch  of  salt; 
stir  into  the  hot  milk  until  it  thickens.  Set  aside  to  cool; 
then  add  a  little  essence  of  lemon.  Cut  oranges  in  small 
pieces  and  pour  the  custard  over ;  stir  up  and  put  the  beaten 
whites  on  top.  Mrs.  M.  Papish,  Kellogg,  Ida. 

Pineapple  Foam — (A  dainty  dessert  as  well  as  a  delicious 
one).  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  very  light;  whip  one- 


RECIPES  FOR   COOKING  93 

pint  of  cream ;  add  to  the  whites ;  stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar;  then  stir  in  lightly  a  can  of  shredded 
pineapple.  Chill  and  serve  in  glass  cups.  Mrs.  G. 

Salted  Nuts — Shell,  blanch  and  dry  almonds.  To  blanch 
almonds  let  them  stand  in  boiling  water  until  husk  slips  off 
easily.  To  each  cupful  thus  prepared  allow  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salad  oil  or  butter ;  heat  in  a  pan ;  stir  nuts  in,  cover- 
ing them  well  with  it ;  set  in  the  oven  and  brown  well.  Stir 
often  to  prevent  burning.  Take  them  out  when  well 
browned  and  cover  with  salt.  Mrs.  P.  J.  Haggarty. 

Yorkshire  Pudding  No.  1 — Beat  thoroughly  two  eggs, 
yolks  and  whites  together,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  salt 
to  season,  and  milk,  until  the  whole  is  the  consistency  of 
thick  cream.  Pour  into  a  roasting  pan  and  bake  in  the 
drippings  from  the  roast,  or  heat  to  the  boiling  point  one  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  or  drippings,  and  bake  in  this  twenty  min- 
utes. It  is  delicious  with  the  accompaniment  of  roast  beef 
and  brown  gravy.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Yorkshire  Pudding  No.  2 — This  is  to  be  eaten  with  roast 
beef,  as  one  would  eat  a  vegetable,  and  is  made  in  this  way : 
Stir  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  into  one  pint  of  milk,  add 
three  eggs  and  a  little  salt;  pour  into  a  shallow  tin  baking 
pan ;  put  it  into  the  oven  an  hour  before  dinner  time.  After 
it  has  baked  for  about  ten  minutes,  put  it  under  the  roasting 
beef.  When  the  meat  is  taken  up  leave  the  pudding  in  the 
oven  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  off  the  fat.  Serve  with 
Ihe  meat. 


94  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


Pj'es  and  Pastry 


To  make  quick  paste  sift  into  mixing  bowl  three  level  cup- 
fuls  of  flour.  Chop  into  this,  with  a  stiff  spoon,  one  level 
cupful  of  lard;  add  salt  to  taste  and  moisten  with  ice  water. 
Stir  vigorously  for  a  half  minute  only,  turn  out  upon  a 
floured  board  and  pat  gently  into  shape  with  the  rolling-pin, 
not  allowing  the  hands  to  come  into  contact  with  the  dough. 
Lastly  roll  out  as  thin  as  desired  and  if  pastry  cups  are  to- 
be  made  place  the  little  patee  pans  so  that  each  one  may 
have  a  small  margin  around  it;  cut  out  the  circles  with  a 
sharp  knife.  An  excellent  and  quick  method  is  to  invert  the 
patee  pans  and  cover  the  outside  with  the  pastry. 

Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Pie  Crust — Three  cups  of  sifted  "flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  lard  and  half  of  a  cup  of 
ice  water.  Mix  the  flour  and  the  salt  and  lard  quickly  and 
lightly  together  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Pour  in  the 
water  slowly,  mixing  all  the  time  with  a  silver  fork.  Let 
stand  for  some  hours  in  the  ice  chest.  This  will  make  two 
pies.  Cut  into  four  pieces.  When  ready  for  use,  take  out 
one  piece  onto  a  well-floured  board ;  dust  well  with  flour  and 
roll  quickly  with  a  well-floured  rolling  pin  until  perfectly 
round  and  large  enough  to  fit  the  pie  pan.  Lay  on  the  pan, 
fill  with  sugared  fruit,  wet  the  edges  of  the  crust,  cutting 
off  rim  that  falls  over  the  sides ;  roll  out  the  upper  crust,  fold 
it  over;  slit  it  four  times  with  a  sharp  knife;  lay  over  the 
fruit.  Wet  the  top  well  with  water.  Pinch  together  the 
crust  on  the  sides  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven.  Always 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  the  sugar  to  any  juicy 
fruit,  such  as  currants  or  blackberries,  to  each  pie,  and  as 
much  sugar  as  fruit.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Banana  Pie — Bake  a  good-sized  pie  shell.  Place  a  layer 
of  sliced  bananas,  then  a  layer  of  filling,  then  a  layer  of 
bananas,  and  then  a  frosting  made  of  two  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff  and  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  flavored  with 
lemon.  Brown  nicely  in  oven. 


96  ADVERTISEMENTS 


Phone  Main  46       Express  Orders  Attended  To 

P.  C.  McLaren 

San  Anselmo   Livery     g 
and  Express 


Horses  Boarded  By  the  Day, 

Week  or  Month  at 

Reasonable 

Rates 

SAN  ANSELMO          =          =          CALIFORNIA 


®®<2X»)®®®®^ 

Hotel    Rossi   SANANSELMO 

Fine  Ice  Cream,  Candies 
and  Cigars 

SUNDAY  DINNERS  A  SPECIALTY 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  97 


Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.   f°r  stoves  and 

SAN  RAFAEL,  GAL.,  Kitchen  Tables 


Filling  for  the  Pie  —  Take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten 
well;  stir  in  one  rounded  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  half  a 
cup  of  sugar;  then  add  two  cups  of  milk.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  quite  thick  ;  when  cool  place  in  pie.  Flavor 
filling  with  extract  of  lemon.  J.  X. 

Buttermilk  Pie  —  To  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  the  white  of  one 
egg  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  after  this  has  been 
thoroughly  mixed  add  three  cupfuls  of  buttermilk  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Bake  with  an  undercrust 
and  when  done  spread  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites 
of  the  three  remaining  eggs  and  five  tablespponfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Flavor  with  lemon  extract.  Return  to  the 
oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown  lightly.  This  makes  a  good 
mock  lemon  pie. 

Carrot  Pie  —  Wash  and  pare  two  or  three  good  sized 
carrots,  stew  until  tender,  pour  water  off;  mash  fine  with 
potato  masher,  and  to  one  cup  of  mashed  carrots  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  beaten  egg,  one  level  teaspoonful 
of  mixed  spices,  one-half  pint  of  milk  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake 
with  an  undercrust  only. 

Chocolate  Pie  No.  1  —  Make  a  crust  the  same  as  for  lemon 
pie;  moisten  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  with  a  little 
water  and  stir  in  one  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir  over  fire. 
Add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  when  partly  cool  add  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate  before  re- 
moving from  fire.  When  baked  spread  the  two  whites  of 
eggs  well  beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Chocolate  Pie  No.  2  —  First  line  a  deep  pie  pan  with  rich 
pie  crust  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  After  your  crust  is 
baked  grate  one-half  a  teacupful  of  chocolate  and  put  into 
a  pan  with  one  cupful  of  hot  water,  butter  the  size  of  an 
.egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  the 


98  RECIPES   FOR   COOKING 

beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Mix  well  and  cook  on 
top  of  stove  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  into  the 
pie  shell  and  let  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  spread 
on  top  of  pie  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Cream  Pie — Let  one  large  cup  of  milk  come  to  a  boil;, 
beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch  mixed  with  a  little  milk  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar;, 
flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla;  stir  until  thick.  Bake  crust 
first;  pour  in;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs;  spread  on  top;, 
set  in  oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  J.  E.  Allen. 

Date  Pie — Soak  the  dates  over  night  and  stew  until  they 
can  be  strained.  Mix  with  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  a. 
little  salt  and  nutmeg.  Bake  with  an  undercrust  only.  Use 
half  a  pound  of  dates.  Put  meringue  on  top. 

Miss  J.  Lawrence,  S.  F. 

Lemon  Pie  No.  1 — The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one 
lemon,  two  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites,  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  sugar,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  half 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one-fourth  of  a  pint  of  cold 
water ;  then  add  one-half  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water ; 
cook  until  quite  thick;  bake  the  crust  after  sticking 
of  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  sugar;  bake  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch,  S.  A. 

Lemon  Pie  No.  2 — To  one  cupful  of  sugar  add  the  yolks- 
of  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs, 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  a  little  salt. 
Bake  with  an  undercrust  and  frost  with  a  meringue  made  of 
the  egg  whites  and  powdered  sugar.  This  is  enough  for 
one  pie. 

Lemon  Pie  No.  3 — One  lemon,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two- 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  two- 
egg  yolks  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Beat  sugar  and  eggs 
together ;  then  add  grated  lemon  and  juice ;  then  pour  boiling 
water  over  corn  starch  and  add  to  other  mixture.  Make  a» 
meringue  of  whites.  Mrs.  P.  J.  Haggarty. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  99  ^ 

Mince  Pie  with  Apple  Meringue — Cover  a  pie  plate  with 
rich  pie  crust ;  fill  with  mincemeat.  Cover  with  a  thin,  rich, 
crust;  put  a  little  melted  butter  on  top;  also  a  little  milk. 
Bake.  When  ready  to  serve  cover  with  the  apple  meringue. 

Apple  Meringue — Peel  and  grate  one  large  or  two  small ' 
apples;  sprinkle  over  apples  one  cup  of  white  sugar  as  you 
grate  them  to  keep  them  from  getting  very  dark.  Take 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  until  stiff ;  gradually  beat  in  ap- 
ples and  sugar  and  beat  until  stiff.  Put  on  top  of  pie  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts.  Place  in  a  cool  oven  until  a 
nice  brown.  Mrs.  A.  Welch. 

Lemon  Custard  Pie — Three  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  cream,  one-half  cup  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  three 
lemons,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar  together ;  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  the  cream 
and  bread  crumbs;  then  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the 
lemons.  Bake  in  puff  paste,  with  whites  of  eggs  over  the 
top. 

Orange  Pie  No.  1 — Grate  the  rind  of  one  and  use  the 
juice  of  two  large  oranges ;  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  very 
light  into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  heaping  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  and  put  to  the  juice ;  add  a  little  nutmeg.  Beat 
all  well  together.  Cover  the  pie  dish  with  a  thick  paste, 
and  pour  this  mixture  into  it,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven;, 
when  done  so  it  is  like  a  finely-baked  custard;  add  to  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar  and 
one  of  orange  juice.  Cover  this  over  the  pie,  and  set  back 
into  the  oven  till  a  light  brown. 

Orange  Pie  No.  2— The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two 
oranges,  four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the 
beaten  eggs,  then  the  rind  and  juice  of  the  oranges,  and 
lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth  and  mixed  in  lightly. 
Bake  with  undercrust. 

Raisin  Pie — One  pound  of  raisins,  one  quart  of  hot 
water,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  flour  and  one  egg. 


100  RECIPES   FOR  COOKING 

Squash  Pie — Split  a  squash.  Remove  the  seeds  and  lay 
in  a  dripping  pan,  rind  side  down,  with  about  an  inch  of 
v/atcr  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Bake  till  tender.  Scoop 
out  and  add  to  the  hot  squash  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon 
and  mace,  and  a  small  cup  of  molasses.  In  another  bowl  beat 
up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  whole  egg  with  one  cup 
of  sugar;  add  one-half  pint  of  cream  and  one-half  pint  of 
milk.  Add  to  the  other  ingredients,  strain  and  fill  two 
pie  plates  lined  with  a  rich  undercrust,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  done.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

English  Mincemeat — One  pound  of  beef  suet  chopped 
fine,  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  chopped  raisins, 
one  pound  of  mixed  peel  (orange,  lemon  and  citron),  one 
pound  of  sugar,  two  pounds  of  apples  peeled  and  chopped, 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  three  lemons  and  two  nutmegs 
grated.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  half  a  pint  of  brandy, 
half  a  pint  of  sherry  and  half  a  pint  of  rum. 

Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Mincemeat — Three  pounds  of  beef  taken  from  bottom 
of  round,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  suet,  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  citron,  ten  pounds  of  apples,  five  pounds  of 
raisins,  four  pounds  of  currants,  four  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  each 
of  mace,  cloves  and  allspice,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger, 
three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  three  pints  of  sherry  and  one 
quart  of  brandy  or  whisKy.  Chop  beef  and  boil  until  ten- 
der; let  cool;  chop  suet  and  apples  (raisins  also,  if  pre- 
ferred) ;  mix  with  other  ingredients;  let  boil  four  hours, 
then  add  the  sherry  and  brandy  and  heat  through  thor- 
oughly. Mrs.  A.  Welch,  S.  A. 

Briars — One  cup  of  raisins,  one  lemon,  one  cup  of 
sugar.  Make  in  little  turn-overs  with  pie  crust. 

Apple  Puff — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  half 
of  a  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs  and  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder ;  add  three  sliced  apples  and  flavor  with  nut- 
meg; flour  to  make  .moderately  stiff  and  serve  with  sauce. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  101 

Cream  Puffs — One  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  water,  one- 
fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  cup  of  butter ;  set 
water  and  butter  on  stove  till  it  boils;  then  add  gradually 
the  flour  and  stir  till  it  leaves  the  sides  of  bowl.  Set  aside 
to  cool;  then  add  three  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a  time;  drop 
on  a  well-greased  baking  pan  about  an  inch  apart  and  bake 
in  a  brisk  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  When  cold  cut  piece 
out  of  top  and  fill  with  whipped  cream  or  rich  custard. 

Mrs.  Leach. 

Raisin  Puffs — Cream  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 
butter,  add  one  egg,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder  and  half  a 
cup  of  raisins  chopped  fine ;  pour  this  into  well-greased  cups ; 
steam  half  an  hour. 

Tarts — Use  the  best  puff  paste ;  roll  it  out  a  little  thicker 
than  for  pie-crust,  and  cut  with  a  large  biscuit-cutter  twice 
as  many  as  you  intend  to  have  tarts ;  then  cut  out  of  half  of 
them  a  small  round  in  the  center,  which  will  leave  a  circular 
rim  of  crust;  lift  this  up  carefully  and  lay  on  the  large 
pieces ;  bake  in  pans  and  fill  with  any  kind  of  preserves, 
jam  or  jelly. 

Egg  Tarts — Line  a  small,  deep  gem  pan  with  rich  pastry 
and  partly  fill  them  with  the  following  mixture :  One  egg 
well  beaten  with  a  cup  of  light  brown  sugar;  then  add  a 
tabbspoonful  of  vinegar.  Bake  until  crust  is  well-browned, 
then  filling  will  be  done.  This  recipe  makes  about  one 
dozen  tarts. 


M.  Burke  H.  C.  Christoffersen  H.  C.  Fletcher 

MARIN  FURNITURE  CO. 

(Incorporated; 

Interior  Decorating  and  Upholstery 

Window  Shades,    Carpets,    Spring  Beds,  Mattresses,  Etc. 

Painting,  Paperhanging  and  Tinting 
Telephone  San  Rafael  137  314  B  Street  San  Rafael,  Cal. 


102  RECIPES   FOR  COOKING 


C  A  KES 


Angel  Cake — Whites  of  eight  large  eggs,  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  even 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
almond  extract;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the  eggs  before 
whipping.  Sift,  measure  and  set  aside  sugar  and  flour; 
whip  eggs  to  a  foam,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  whip  until 
very  stiff;  add  sugar ^and  beat  in;  then  flavor  and  beat  in; 
then  flour  and  fold  in  lightly.  Put  in  oven  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  about  forty  minutes. 

Angel  Charlotte  Russe — Take  a  large  angel  cake  and 
cut  out  all  the  inside  so  as  to  leave  a  form  about  half  an 
inch  thick.  Beat  one  quart  of  thick  cream  until  stiff;  add 
vanilla  to  suit ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  dissolved 
in  cold  water.  Mix  all  together  and  fill  angel  cake,  saving 
enough  to  coat  outside  of  cake.  Then  decorate  cake  with 
blanched  almonds  cut  in  four  and  pieces  of  candied  cherries. 
Set  away  on  ice  about  one  hour  before  using.  A  delicious 
and  pretty  dish.  «  Mrs.  Dodd,  S.  F. 

Angel  Food — Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Sift 
sugar  and  flour  four  times,  sifting  the  cream  of  tartar  into 
the  flour  the  last  time.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  sift 
in  the  sugar ;  then  the  flour.  Do  not  beat  it  at  all.  Do  not 
butter  the  pans.  Bake  fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
As  soon  as  done  turn  pan  upside  down;  leave  in  pan  until 
cool. 

Apple  Cheese  Cakes — Take  one  pound  of  apples,  boiled 
and  pulped  through  a  sieve,  one  pound  of  powdered  white 
sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rinds  of  three  large  fresh  lemons 
and  four  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix  these  ingredients  carefully 
and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  in  which  you  have  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  melted.  Stir  it  constantly  over 
a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour,  and  let  it  cool.  Line  pie-dishes 


104  RECIPES   FOR  COOKING 

with  fine  puff  paste,  pour  in  the  apple  mixture,  and  bake 
without  upper  crust,  in  a  quick  oven.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve  when  perfectly  cold. 

Apple  Cake — One-half  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, half  a  cup  of  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  three 
eggs  (whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately),  one  teaspoonful 
of  yeast  powder. 

Filling — Two  apples,  one  lemon  (grated  rind  and  juice) 
and  one  egg.  Boil  until  it  thickens  and  cool  before  using. 
Spread  between  layers. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  .half  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, one  cup  of  apple  sauce  (cold  and  unsweetened),  one  cup 
of  raisins  and  nuts,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
water,  two  cups  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  cin- 
namon and  cloves.  Bake  in  slow  oven  for  one  hour. 

F.  N.  Dayton. 

Banbury  Cakes — One  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  dates 
and  one  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  chopped,  juice  and  rind  of 
one  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  egg.  Make  a  puff 
paste,  fill  and  bake.  Mrs.  R.  L. 

Blackberry  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
blackberry  jam,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sour 
cream,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  soda,  allspice  and  cinnamon 
and  one  nutmeg.  Stir  well  and  bake  in  three  layers  with 
icing  between. 

Chocolate  Loaf — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  half 
a  cup  of  butter,  cream  together;  three  eggs,  half  a  cup  of 
milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  cocoa,  mixed  with  a 
little  water;  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  baking  powder 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Cheese  Cakes — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
juice  of  four  lemons,  rind  of  two  lemons  and  four  eggs; 
beat  well  and  put  in  one  cup  of  rice  flour.  Line  pan  with 
puff  pastry,  fill  and  bake.  An  excellent  filling  for  tarts. 

Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 


RECIPES  EOR  COOKING  105 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.,  *<*  Dressers  and 

SAN  RAFAEL,  GAL.  Chiffoniers 


Cocoanut  Cake — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three 
cups  of  butter,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  yeast  powder.  J.  N. 

Cocoanut  Layer  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  four 
eggs.  Bake  in  three  layers. 

For  icing,  beat  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  thicken  witb 
powdered  sugar  and  dessicated  cocoanut.  Spread  the  lay- 
ers and  sprinkle  additional  cocoanut  thickly  over  the  top 
layer. 

Coffee  Cake  No.  1 — Half  a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  -one 
and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  po\vcler  in  two  cups  of  flour,  pinch  of  salt  and  half 
a  cup  of  granulated  sugar;  rub  all  together;  then  add  half 
a  cup  of  milk  and  three  well-beaten  eggs;  heat  pan  and 
butter  well;  sprinkle  walnuts,  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  Thornton. 

Coffee  Cake  No.  2 — One  cup  of  sugar  (white),  one  cup 
of  milk  (sweet),  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three  tea- 
spoonsful  of  baking  powder,  three  eggs,  flour  enough  for 
batter  like  cake.  Mrs.  T. 

Coffee  Kuchen — Set  some  sponge  over  night  as  for  bread 
making.  In  the  morning  mix  a  cup  of  sugar  \vith  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter ;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs ;  mix  thorough- 
ly; add  the  sponge  and  enough  flour  to  make  soft  dough. 
Raisins  may  be  added.  Roll  out  as  soft  as  may  be  handled ;. 
put  into  pans  and  let  raise  again.  Then  spread  on  melted 
butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon  or  chopped  nuts.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Leach. 

Cocoanut  Hills — Beat  whites  of  two  eggs ;  add  ten  cents 
worth  of  cocoanut,  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  little 
vanilla.  Drop  in  buttered  pan  in  shape  of  hills.  Bake  in 
a  very  slow  oven.  Mrs.  H.  S. 


106  ,  RECIPES   FOR   COOKING 

Cocoanut  Squares — Five  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  cocoanut,  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately ;  pour 
the  yolks  into  the  whites  and  stir  while  pouring  the  sugar 
in  through  the  hand;  then  add  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Spread  on  a  pan  and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and 
cocoanut.  Bake  in  hot  oven  and  before  cold  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Clayburgh. 

Cookies  No.  1 — Four  eggs  well  beaten  together  with  one 
cup  of  white  and  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
ground  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  one  stick  of  grated 
chocolate,  half  a  pound  of  almonds  (chopped,  not  too  fine), 
some  citron  cut  in  small  pieces,  three  scant  cups  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mixture  to  be  dropped 
from  teaspoon  about  two  inches  apart  in  a  well-buttered  pan. 

Cookies  No.  2 — One  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, half  a  pound  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
taking  powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add 
eggs,  well  beaten ;  then  milk,  and  lastly  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  thoroughly  sifted  twice.  H,  W. 

Cookies  No.  3 — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
four  eggs  and  flour  sufficient  for  soft  dough.  Mix  like  or- 
dinary cake  and  roll  out  and  bake.  E.  B. 

Good  Plain  Cookies — A  very  nice  plain  cookie  is  made 
with  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  couple  of  eggs, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  milk,  one  small  tablespoonful 
of  soda,  salt  and  nutmeg  and  flour  to  roll  into  a  sheet. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Kennedy. 

Boston  Cookies — Cream  one  cup  of  butter;  add  gradu- 
ally one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar  and  three  eggs,  well  beaten ; 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  and  a  half 
tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water.  Sift  together  three  cups  of 
flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cinnamon ;  add  half  of  this  to  the  thin  mixture ;  then 
hair  a  cup  of  chopped  walnuts,  half  a  cup  of  raisins  and  half 
a  cup  of  currants.  Put  in  rest  of  flour  arid  beat  well.  Drop 
from  spoon  one  inch  apart  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Rice. 


RECIPES   FOR  COOKING  107 

English  Rock  Cookies — One  pound  or  two  cups  of  un- 
sifted flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teacupful  of  raisins 
(cut  in  halves),  half  a  cup  of  walnuts  (chopped  fine),  one 
pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg;  mix 
with  hands.  The  mixture  should  be  quite  stiff.  Bake  on 
greased  paper;  each  cake  about  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

Mrs.  G. 

Lemon  Cookies — One  cup  of  butter,  one  pint  of  sugar, 
three  eggs  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  juice  of 
one  lemon ;  add  the  grated  rind.  Make  soft  dough  and  roll 
^thin.  Cook  in  hot  oven. 

Molasses  Cookies — One  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses, 
one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,  spices  to  taste 
and  from  four  and  a  half  to  five  cups  of  flour.  Koll  and 
rcut.  Bake  in  medium  oven — not  too  hard. 

Mrs.  Lemon,  S.  A. 

Nut  Cookies  No.  1 — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  eggs 
beaten  very  light,  one  cup  of  lard  and  butter  (mixed),  two 
•cups  of  rolled  oats,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  walnuts 
chopped  coarse  and  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour. 

Nut  Cookies  No.  2 — Beat  one  egg ;  add  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar  and  beat;  then  four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and'  one  cup  of  chopped  walnuts.  Vanilla  to  taste. 
Drop  into  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  a  medium  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  S. 

Peanut  Cookies — Three  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  nine 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  three  cups 
of  chopped  nuts.  One  quart  of  peanuts  makes  one  cup  of 
:nut  meat.  Mrs.  G. 

Cup  Cake — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three 
cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and 
teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder.  J.  N. 


108  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Currant  Rolls — Mix  and  sift  two  cups  of  flour,  two  heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  work  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter;  then  add  gradually  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
milk;  put  on  floured  board;  pat  and  roll  to  one-quarter  of 
an  inch  thick.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  one-third  of  a  cup  of  currants,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
finely  chopped  citron,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one- 
third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Roll  like  jelly-cake 
and  cut  into  slices  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Place, 
in  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 
Raisins  chopped  fine  may  be  used  instead  of  currants. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Lawrence,  S.  F. 

Crullers — Two  coffee  cups  of  sugar,  one  coffee  cup  of 
milk,  four  eggs,  six  spoonfuls  of  lard,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  fiour  to  make  stiff 
enough  to  roll ;  fry  in  boiling  lard ;  spice  to  suit  the  taste. 

Dainty  Chips — Fifteen  cents  worth  of  dainty  chips,  two 
beaten  whites  of  eggs,  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  beaten 
up  with  whites  of  eggs;  add  one  cup  of  walnuts  (chopped)  ; 
spread  paste  on  chips  and  bake  light  brown. 

Danish  Apple  Cake — Work  together  one  cupful  of  flour,. 
one-third  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  brown 
sugar,  one  egg  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  After  they  are  well 
blended,  mold  on  a  board,  cut  in  three  parts  and  roll  each, 
part  to  fill  a  pie  plate.  Bake  the  three  cakes  in  a  slow 
oven  to  a  light  brown.  Prepare  a  few  apples  as  for  apple 
sauce,  cooking  them  very  tender  with  a  little  sugar.  When 
this  is  cold,  add  a  little  cinnamon  and  spread  between  the 
layers  of  the  cake.  Cover  the  top  of  the  cake  with  the  fol- 
lowing cream,  letting  it  run  over  the  sides  until  the  cake  is 
completely  covered.  Boil  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  milk. 
Dissolve  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  add  one  beaten  egg,  one  half  cupful  of  sugar,  and 
lemon  extract  to  taste.  Stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk. 
Stir  until  smooth,  and  pour  over  the  cake  while  warm.  This 
recipe  needs  no  baking  powder.  Make  at  least  twenty-four- 
hours  before  you  wish  to  serve  and  stand  it  in  a  cool  place. 

L.  M. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  109 

Dark  Cake — Four  eggs,  two  cups  of  dark-brown  sugar, 
one  small  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one- 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour  and  one  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda;  vanilla  flavoring. 

Icing  for  Dark  Cake — One-half  teacupful  of  water  boiled 
with  three  teacupfuls  of  sugar  till  thick  as  candy.  Pour 
slowly  over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  beat  all 
till  cool.  Make  cake  in  two  square  layers  and  put  filling 
between  them.  This  filling  should  be  about  an  inch  thick. 

Dorcas  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  two 
cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ;  flavor- 
ing. Bake  in  two  layers. 

Filling — The  yolks  of  three  eggs  mixed  with  one  cup  of 
powdered  sugar;  flavor.  Mrs.  H.  P.  C. 

Devil  Cake— First  Part— Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  pow- 
dered chocolate,  one-half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  put  all  on  stove 
and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  set  aside  to  cool. 

Second  Part — One  cup  of  white  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  put  in  milk, 
one-half  a  cup  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  mix 
•well  and  add  two  and  three-quarters  cups  of  flour ;  mix  this 
^vell  with  first  part  and  bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  one-half  a  cup 
of  sweet  milk;  boil  twenty  minutes;  take  from  stove  and 
stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla. 

Devil's  Food  Cake — Two  cups  of  darkest  brown  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour  and  one  pinch  of  salt ;  mix  thoroughly. 
Then  take  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir  into  it  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one-half  cup  grated  Baker's  choco- 
late; stir  into  batter. 

Filling — Two  cups  of  dark  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk  or  cream.  Cook  until 
it  threads.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 


110  RECIPES   FOR   COOKING 

Drop  Spice  Cakes — One-half  of  a  cup  of  butter,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk,  two- 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of 
allspice,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one-quarter  of 
a  nutmeg,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  currants.  Flour  to  thicken. 
Bake  twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  W.  Papesh,  Kellogg,  Ida. 

Doughnuts — One  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk 
(sweet),  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder ;  nutmeg  and  lemon  for  flavoring ;  a  little- 
salt  and  flour  for  a  soft  dough. 

Mrs.  B.  McDougall,  Kellogg,  Idaho. 

Drop  Doughnuts — Three  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
pint  of  new  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  nutmeg,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Flour  to  stiffen.  Beat  the 
eggs,  add  the  sugar,  alternate  with  the  milk  and  the  flour 
until  stiff  enough  for  a  spoon  to  stand  alone;  add  the  nut- 
meg and'baking  powder.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  fat.  Roll  in  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Home-Made  Doughnuts — Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar 
(granulated),  six  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  (melted),  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda,, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or 
vanilla  extract  and  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Flour  enough  to  roll. 
Cut  with  cookie  cutter  and  fry  in  scalding  fat. 

Mrs.  Will  Larkins. 

Sour  Cream  Doughnuts — Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
une  cup  of  sour  cream;  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one- 
half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg,  four  cups  of  flour.  Beat  eggs;  add  sugar,  soda  dis- 
solved in  cream  and  stir  well  with  spoon;  add  to  eggs  and 
sugar;  next  salt  and  nutmeg  sifted  in  flour.  Roll  one-half 
inch  thick,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat.  Florence  Dayton. 

Drop  Cake — Beat  one  egg  well,  add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  sour  cream,  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  four 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Flavor 
with  vanilla,  or  as  liked.  Drop  in  small  spoonfuls  in  greasedJ 
tins;  sprinkle  a  few  currants  on  each  and  bake  quickly. 


RECIPES   FOR  COOKING  111 

Eggless  Cake — One  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed  and 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  creamed  together,  then  mix 
in  alternately  two  big  cups  of  flour  and  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sour  milk  with  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
milk,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  and  a  large  cup  of  chopped  seeded 
raisins  and  nuts.  Flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla. 

Frosting — Boil  for  about  four  minutes  one  cup  of  sugar 
with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  until  quite  clear,  then 
pour  slowly  into  the  stiffly  beaten  wrhite  of  one  egg;  beat 
all  for  a  while  until  thick.  Flavor  with  one-half  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Spread  all  over  cake,  when  cool. 

Mrs.  X.  J.  H. 

English  Lemon  Cheese  Cakes — Juice  and  grated  rind  of 
two  lemons,  ten  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter  and  one  egg.  Beat  egg  well;  add  sugar, 
then  lemons,  lastly  the  butter.  Stir  well  together ;  line  four 
gem  pans  with  pastry ;  half  fill  with  the  mixture  and  bake. 

A.  G.  Follows. 

French  Cake — Three  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sep- 
arately, one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring. 

Fruit  Cake  No.  1 — Six  eggs,  one-half  a  pound  of  butter, 
one-half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  a  pound  of  flour, 
one  and  one-half  pounds  of  raisins,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
currants,  one-half  a  pound  of  citron  (mix  raisins,  currants 
and  citron  with  some  of  the  flour),  one-half  a  glass  of  jelly, 
one  wine  glass  of  brandy,  one  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  of 
cinnamon,  one-half  a  tablespoonful  of  allspice  and  one-half 
a  tablespoonful  of  cloves.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add 
yolks,  then  jelly,  spices,  and  brandy,  then  whites  and  rest  of 
flour;  beat  good,  then  add  raisins,  currants  and  citron  and 
beat  thoroughly.  Mrs.  H.  R.  Marden,  S.  F. 

Fruit  Cake  No.  2— One-half  a  pound  of  flour,  one-half  a 
pound  of  butter,  one-half  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  currants,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  raisins,  one- 
half  a  pound  of  citron,  five  eggs,  one-half  a  cup  of  milk,  one- 
half  a  gill  of  brandy,  one-half  ounce  each  of  cloves,  cinna- 


112  RECIPES   FOR  COOKING 

mon,  nutmeg  and  mace  and  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Mix  all  fruit  with  one-quarter  of  flour,  cream 
butter  and  sugar,  beat  eggs,  then  add  them  to  butter  and 
sugar  and  mix.  Then  add  milk,  spices,  brandy  and  rest  of 
flour  with  paking  powder  added,  and  beat  good;  then  add 
fruit  and  mix  thoroughly.  This  makes  one  large  or  two 
small  cakes.  Cook  from  three  to  four  hours. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Allen,  Bangor,  Cal. 

Delicious  Fruit  Cake — Cup  of  light  brown  sugar,  half 
cup  of  butter,  yolk  of  one  egg — save  the  white  for  frosting 
— half  cup  of  sour  milk,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
half  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  quarter  of  a  grated  nutmeg,  one 
cup  of  cut  raisins,  and  you  may  add  or  not  the  meats  of 
English  walnuts,  about  half  a  cupful. 

Frosting — One  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  cold  water;  boil  slowly  until  it  threads;  pour 
slowly  on  the  well-beaten  white  of  egg  and  beat  until  it  is 
-cool  enough  to  put  on  cake. 

Dried  Fruit  Cake— One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
•one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  dried  apples 
and  one  cup  of  raisins.  (Soak  apples  and  raisins  over  night.) 
Chop  fine  and  then  stew  in  two  cups  of  molasses.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  then  beaten  eggs,  then 
flour  into  which  soda  has  been  sifted,  and  lastly  stir  in  well 
the  raisins  and  apples;  use  spices  to  suit  and  put  in  half  a 
cup  of  currants,  if  desired.  Bake  two  hours. 

Mrs.  T.  G.  Howe,  Redding,  Cal. 

Fudge  Cake — Take  one  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  English 
walnuts,  broken  up  coarsely.  Cream  the  butter  and  the 
sugar  together ;  add  the  cup  of  milk  and  then  stir  in  lightly 
the  flour  in  which  the  heaping  spoonful  of  baking  powder 
has  been  sifted.  Then  stir  in  the  chocolate  which  has  been 
dissolved  by  placing  in  a  cup  and  setting  in  hot  water.  Add 
the  nuts  and  lastly  the  eggs,  which  should  be  beaten,  whites 
and  yolks,  separately. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  113 


Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.   For  SP™«  Beds 

SAN  RAFAEL,  GAL.  and     Mattresses 


Fudge  Frosting  —  The  frosting  for  Fudge  Cake  should 
be  made  as  follows  :  One  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  of  unsweetened  powdered  cocoa,  one  and 
one-quarter  cups  confectioner's  sugar,  a  few  grains  of  salt, 
one-quarter  cup  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Melt  butter,  add  cocoa,  sugar,  salt  and  milk.  Heat  to  boiling 
point  and  boil  about  eight  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  beat  until  creamy.  Add  vanilla  and  pour  over  cake 
*o  depth  of  one-quarter  inch.  M.  H. 

Ginger  Snaps  —  One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Flour  enough  to  make  stiff. 

Golden  Spice  Cake  —  Take  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
molasses,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar  and  three  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour  into  which  soda  has  been  sifted;  one  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger, 
and  a  small  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Add  spices,  butter 
and  sugar  and  cream  well  ;  add  cream  of  tartar  to  j'olks  and 
cream  thoroughly  ;  stir  them  well  into  the  butter  and  sugar, 
then  add  molasses  and  milk,  then  the  flour,  stir  hard.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  one  and  one-half  hours.  Raisins  and  cur- 
rants may  be  added,  one  cup  of  each,  flour  well  and  add 
last.  Mrs.  A.  U.  Welch. 

Gold  Cake  No.  1  —  The  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  and 
one-quarter  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  scant 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and 
lemon  extract  mixed.  Sift  flour  once,  then  measure;  add 
soda  and  sift  three  times;  cream  butter  and  sugar  thor- 
oughly; beat  yolks  about  half,  then  add  cream  tartar  and 


114  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

beat  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  this  to  the  creamed  butter  and 
sugar  and  stir  thoroughly  through;  add  milk,  then  flour, 
then  flavor,  and  stir  very  hard.  Put  in  a  slow  oven;  will 
bake  in  about  fifty  minutes. 

Gold  Cake  No.  2 — Two  large  cups  of  sugar,  one  scant  cup 
of  butter,  one  scant  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  six  eggs ;  cream  butter  and 
sugar.  Add  milk  and  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder  twice. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Then  add  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and 
mixe  thoroughly.  Bake  an  hour.  Mrs.  F.  Stallman. 

Hermits  No.  1 — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  mixed  together,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  cocoa, 
one  cup  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  two  cups  of  flour,  before 
sifted.  Bake  either  in  loaf  or  drop  from  spoon  on  buttered 
tin.  Mrs.  T.  P.,  Jr. 

Hermits  No.  2 — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sour  cream, 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  very  little  hot 
water,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  cloves  each,  one 
cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  chopped  walnuts,  some 
citron,  if  liked.  Mix  with  flour  sufficient  to  roll;  cut  out 
as  cookies,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Excellent  and  will 
keep  some  time.  Mrs.  Will  Larkins. 

Hermits  No.  3 — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water.  One  cup  of  raisins  cut  in  pieces,  one 
cup  of  walnuts,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  nutmeg;. 
flour  enough  to  thicken  so  as  to  drop  from  spoon. 

Hickory  Nut  Macaroons — Beat  the  white  of  two  eggs 
to  a  froth  and  add  slowly  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  and 
one  cupful  of  nuts  chopped  fine ;  mix  thoroughly  and  drop  in 
buttered  tins.  Bake  slowly. 

Ice  Cream  Cake  No.  1 — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoon- 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  115 

fuls  of  baking  powder,  (heaping),  yolks  of  four  eggs,  white 
of  one.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  thor- 
oughly. Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  till  very  light. 
Add  first  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  then  the  milk;  then  sift 
the  flour  in  gradually  and  beat  (not  stir).  Add  vanilla 
flavoring.  Color  one-third  of  the  dough  pink.  Bake  ten 
minutes  in  layer  pans. 

Use  the  following  filling  and  frosting:  Beat  well  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  stir  in  a  half  a  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid 
(powdered).  Mix  three  cups  of  white  sugar  and  one  cup  of 
water.  Boil  till  it  ropes.  Then  pour  gradually  over  the 
acidulated  eggs  and  beat  till  it  thickens.  Add  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla.  Belle  C.  Brown. 

Ice  Cream  Cake  No.  2 — One  large  spoonful  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
whites  of  two  eggs,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  yeast-  pow- 
der, one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flav- 
oring. J.  N. 

Jelly  Roll — Five  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonfiil  of  baking  powder, 
and  extract  for  flavoring.  Cream  sugar  with  yolks  of  eggs, 
add  part  of  flour,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten  and 
the  extract.  Lastly  add  remainder  of  flour,  into  which  the 
baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Bake  in  large  square  pan; 
when  baked,  drop  on  a  damp  cloth,  spread  jelly  and  roll. 
Garnish  top  with  jelly  and  cocoanut. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Clayburgh. 

Kisses. — Whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth; 
add  a  little  flavoring  and  gradually  one  cup  of  white  sugar. 
Drop  on  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  T.  P.,  Jr. 

Kugel — Three  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one- 
half  a  cupof  raisins,  cue-half  a  cup  of  currants,  three  eggs, 
about  one  cup  of  fat,  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  one  cup  prunes  and  cup  of  apples  mixed.  Steam 
three  hours. 

Lady  Cake — Whites  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten;  one  cup 
of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  butter  and  two 
cups  of  flour.  Cream  sugar  and  butter  together  then  add 
milk  and  other  ingredients.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 


116  RECIPES  FOR   COOKING 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake — Cream  one  cup  of  butter  and 
add  gradually  two  cups  of  sugar ;  when  well  mixed  add  one 
cup  of  milk  and  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  mixed  and 
:sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  almond  flavoring  and  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  six  eggs.  Bake  in  three  layers. 

Lady  Fingers — Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  until  very 
stiff,  then  graudally  beat  in  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
then  add  the  yolks  of  the  three  tggs  beaten  well  and  a  little 
extract  of  vanilla.  To  this  mixture  add  a  few  grains  of 
salt,  then  shape  on  a  buttered  baking  tin  making  each 
cake  about  four  and  a  half  inches  long  and  one  inch  wide. 
Dredge  lightly  with  sugar  and  bake  about  eigKt  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Layer  Cake  No.  1 — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  sifted 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla.  Mix  in  the  order  named  and  alternate  with 
the  milk  and  flour.  Add  the  baking  powder  last  mixed  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Layer  Cake  No.  2 — Cream  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  slice 
of  butter  one-half  inch  thick  until  very  smooth,  then  break 
two  eggs  into  same  and  mix  well.  Sift  two  cups  of  flour 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  add  to  the  eggs 
and  butter.  After  flour  is  worked  all  in,  add  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk ;  flavor  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  extract. 
This  .makes  two  nice  layers. 

Filling  for  Same — White  of  one  egg,  one  cup  of  pow- 
dered sHigar,  one  cup  of  crushed  raspberries  or  strawberries. 
Beat  above  for  twenty  minutes  and  spread  between  layers 
and  on  top  and  in  a  few  minutes  it  will  be  smooth  and  dry. 

Mrs.  0.  Sirard. 

Layer  Cake  No.  3 — One  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
rugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  two 
cups  of  flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Flavor. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  11T 

Layer  Cake  No.  4 — Two  cups  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  six 
eggst  beaten  ten  minutes;  add  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs, 
one  cup  of  boiling  water,  then  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour, 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Filling — One-half  a  cup  of  nuts,  white  of  one  egg  and 
one  cup  of  sugar. 

Frosting — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  water; 
boil  until  it  threads;  then  stir  this  into  the  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs.  J.  X. 

Lemon  Cake — One  and  a  quarter  cups  of  sugar,  one-half 
a  cup  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs, 
two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten,  then  milk.  Sift  together  the  flour  and  the  baking 
powder;  then  add  the  whites  beaten  until  stiff  then  flavor. 
Baive  in  layers  and  put  together  with  lemon  filling. 

Lemon  Filling — One  cup  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  the 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Mix 
ingredients  in  the  order  given,  cook  stirring  constantly  until 
boiling  point  is  reached.  Mrs.  T.  F.  Howe,  Redding,  Cal. 

Lemon  Cheese  Cake — One  pound  of  cottage  cheese,  four 
eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one-quarter  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one 
eup  of  cream.  Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  yolks  of 
eggs  beaten  light;  then  add  spices,  flour  and  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  lemon,  cheese  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  then 
add  the  cream.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  fold  in 
lightly.  Pour  into  a  pan  lined  with  a  rich  paste  and  bake 
in  rather  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  F.  Stallman. 

Loaf  Cake — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one- 
half  ejip  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add 
eggs  beaten  separately.  Flavor  with  lemon. 

Mrs.  P.  J.  Haggarty. 

Marble  Cake — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
(scant),  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  five  cups  of  flour,,  two- 


118  RECIPES   FOR   COOKING 

teaspoonf uls  of  cream  tartar,  one  small  teaspoonf ul  of  soda, 
extract  of  lemon.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  well 
beaten,  then  whites  well  beaten  with  cream  tartar  beaten 
in,  then  milk,  then  flour  with  soda  sifted  into  it  and  lastly 
the  extract.  Take  half  of  this  mixture  and  add  one-half  of 
a  scant  cup  of  syrup  and  spices  to  make  it  look  dark;  put 
the  two  colors  into  the  pan  alternately  to  give  it  the  appear- 
ance of  marble  cake  when  baked. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Allen,  Bangor,  Cal. 

Nut  Cake — Mix  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  add  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  ciip  of  milk,  two 
teaspoonf  uls  of  baking  powder  with  two  cups  of  flour  sifted 
in,  two  cups  hickory  nuts,  not  chopped,  and  any  flavor  you 
want. 

Nut  Crisps — One  cup  of  white  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vanilla,  three  cups  of  rolled  oats,  one  rounding 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Drop  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  on  buttered  tins. 

Nut  Macaroons — Two  cups  of  nut-meats  ground  or 
chopped  very  fine,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Beat  eggs 
to  stiff  froth;  add  sugar  and  beat  five  minutes;  add  lemon 
and  nuts  and  beat  one-half  an  hour.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls 
on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Lemon,  San  Anselmo. 

Mocha  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  a  cup  of 
butter  creamed,  four  eggs,  yolks  separate,  one-half  of  a  cup 
of  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  ground  chocolate;  two 
scant  cups  of  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Mocha  Filling — Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
four  tablespoonfuls  coffee,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  pul- 
verized sugar,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar.  Mix  the  last  two  with  the  first  part  by  putting  in 
a  little  coffee,  then  a  little  vanilla — so  on  until  thoroughly 
mixed. 

Molasses  Cake — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-quarter  of 

-•a  cup  of  melted  butter,  one-half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup 

cf  sour  milk,  one  egg — unbeaten,  one  and  three-quarters  cups 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  119 

of  flour,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
one-half  an  hour.  Florence  Dayton. 

Neapolitan  Cake,  (Pink  and  White) — One  pound  of 
sugar,  one  pound  of  prepared  flour,  one-half  a  pound  of 
butter,  whites  of  ten  eggs;  divide  into  two  equal  portions, 
and  color  one  with  cochineal.  Use  cautiously,  as  too  much 
will  spoil  the  color.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Number  Cake — One  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  two 
cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour  and  four  eggs,  well  beaten 
and  flavoring  to  taste.  Beat  until  light. 

My  Own  Cake — Cream  together  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
one  slice  of  butter,  three  eggs  beaten  well,  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Icing — One  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  water  boiled  till  it 
makes  a  syrup.  Beat  white  of  one  egg  and  add  syrup;  if 
chocolate  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  chocolate  or  cocoa  while 
boiling.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Oat  Meal  Drops — Three  cups  of  flour,  three  cups  of 
rolled  oats,  one  c/p  of  shortening  (one-half  butter,  one-half 
lard), two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  four  teaspoonfuls  of  cin- 
namon. Mix  shortening  and  sugar;  add  eggs  and  cinnamon. 
Put  soda  into  milk;  then  flour  and  rolled  oats  alternately. 
Drop  by  teaspoonful  or  less  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in 
medium  oven — not  too  hard. 

Mrs.  M.  Lemon,  San  Anselmo. 

Orange  Cake  No.  1 — Rub  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  to 
a  cream  with  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar;  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  three  oranges, 
one  cup  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Make  as  stiff  as  pound  cake.  Mrs.  S.  E.  Allen. 

Orange  Cake  No.  2 — Five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two 
cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  juice  of 
( ne  orange,  rind  of  one  orange  and  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of 
'.rater.  Beat  yolks  of  five  eggs  with  one  cup  of  sugar.  Add 


120  RECIPES  FOR   COOKING 

water  and  flour  sifted  twice  with  baking  powder ;  add  juice 
and  rind  of  one  orange  and  then  the  beaten  whites  of  three 
eggs. 

Filling — Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  with  one 
cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Add  grated  rind  of  three-quarters 
of  an  orange  and  one  teaspoonful  of  juice. 

Peanut  Wafers — Half  a  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of 
sugar  creamed  together ;  add  one-half  a  cup  of  milk  in  which 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Then  add 
slowly  two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  stirring  until  smooth.  Spread 
the  mixture  thinly  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle  the  top  with 
rolled  peanuts  (or  any  nuts  preferred) .  Bake  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.   N.  J.  Hoey. 

Popovers — Three  cups  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of 
sweet  milk  and  a  little  salt;  have  pans  very  hot;  bake  half 
an  hour.  Mrs.  Briggs,  S.  A. 

Pork  Cake — One  pound  of  fat  pork,  four  eggs,  one  cup 
of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  hot 
water,  one  cup  (large)  of  raisins,  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  cur- 
rants, two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  and  three  cups  of  flour. 
Spice  of  all  kinds.  This  makes  two  large  cakes,  which 
will  keep  like  fruit  cake.  Chop  pork  very  fine ;  pour  the  hot 
water  over  it  (coffee  is  better)  then  let  it  cool.  When  cool 
put  in  sugar,  molasses,  raisins,  then  eggs.  Flour  last,  with 
soda  mixed  into  it.  Apples  may  be  substituted  for  raisins, 
but  they  should  be  boiled  in  molasses  to  give  a  rich  color. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Rice. 

Pound  Cake  No.  1 — One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
two  cups  of  flour,  six  eggs,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
mace,  and  one-quarter  of  a  gill  of  brandy.  -Beat  butter  to  a 
cream,  and  gradually  add  sugar.  When  the  mixture  is  light 
and  creamy  add  brandy  and  mace.  Beat  the  yolks  until 
light  and  add  them  to  the  beaten  mixture.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  them  into  the  mixture,  alternating 
with  the  flour.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  about 
with  the  flour.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  take  about 
fifty  minutes.  Mrs.  W.  Jones,  San  Anselmo. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  121 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.,ForLeathcrChairs 

SAN  RAFAEL,  GAL.  and  Couches 


Pound  Cake  No.  2 — One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
flour,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  raisins 
or  currants,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  candied  peel  cut  small, 
six  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Peach  Shortcake — Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough  and  bake 
in  one  thick  layer  in  a  round  pan.  Split  while  warm,  butter 
and  sweeten  well,  and  fill  with  mashed  peaches.  Put  sugar 
on  top,  serve  with  cream,  while  warm. 

Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Plum  Bungo — Seven  and  one-half  pounds  .of  little  Ger- 
man plums  (pits  removed)  ;  add  three  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of 
cinnamon,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice.  Cook  two  and 
one-half  or  three  hours.  When  done  add  one  pint  of  vinegar. 

E.  -W.  Beanston. 

Potato  Cake  No.  1 — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  one-halt  cup  of  milk,  four  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
one  cup  of  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  one  cup  of  chopped  wal- 
nuts, one  cup  of  chocolate,  (scant),  two  cups  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, one  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  one  teaspoonful  of  all- 
spice. Add  potato  last,  mixed  with  a  little  salt  and  milk,  but 
no  butter.  Mrs.  W.  D.  Rutherford,  Bangor. 

Potato  Cake  No.  2 — Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter 
(scant),  two  cups  of  sugar,  beaten  together;  add  four  eggs 
well  beaten ;  mix  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes  and  one-half  a 
cup  of  milk,  add  this  to  butter,  sugar  and  eggs;  mix  two  and 
one-quarter  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg, 
and  one  cup  of  ground  chocolate ;  add  this  gradually  to  the 
first  mixture,  then  add  one  cup  of  raisins  and  one  of  walnuts. 

T.  Romberg. 

Regenten  Torte — Beat  three  eggs  very  light  with  one- 
half  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated 


122  RECIPES  FOR   COOKING 

almonds.  Mix  well.  Grease  pan  with  buttered  paper.  Add 
a  little  wine  to  the  cake  before  spreading.  After  baking  let 
the  cake  cool  and  then  spread  with  tart  jelly  and  juice  of 
one  lemon  or  orange. 

Meringue — Three  whites  beaten  very  stiff,  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  pound 
of  grated  almonds  previously  blanched.  Spread  over  jelly 
.and  brown  in  oven. 

Hibbon  Cake — One-half  of  a  cup  of  butter,  four  eggs, 
t>ne  cup  of  currants,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful 
of  cinnamon,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  one- 
quarter  of  a  cup  of  chopped  citron.  Beat  the  butter  to  a 
--cream,  add  the  sugar  and  then  the  yolks,  and  beat  thor- 
oughly. Add  the  flavoring,  milk,  and  flour.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  them  in  carefully  to  the  other  in- 
gredients; add  the  baking  powder  and  stir  just  enough  to 
"mix.  Now  take  out  one-third  of  the  mixture  and  add  to  it 
the  cinnamon,  currants  and  chopped  citron.  Grease  three 
^sheet  pans  of  the  same  size,  put  the  fruit  mixture  into  one 
;and  the  remaining  two-thirds  in  the  other  two  pans.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  a  half  hour.  When  done  take  from  the 
pans.  Spread  one  light  cake  with  a  layer  of  soft  icing,  then 
;place  the  dark  cake  on  this,  and  spread  it  with  icing ;  on  this 
yplace  the  other  light  cake  and  cover  the  whole  with  a  piece 
'of  paper,  then  with  a  tin  sheet,  on  which  place  two  light 
weights.  Let  stand  one  hour,  and  then  remove  the  weights. 
Ice  with  boiled  icing.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Silver  Cake — One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  milk,  two 
and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one  spoonful  of 
essence  of  almond. 

Simple  Cream  Cake — One-half  cup  of  butter,  three  cups 
of  sugar,  three  eggs,  beaten  in  one  cup  of  milk. 

Cream  for  the  Middle — One  pint  of  milk,  let  it  come  to 
.a  boil,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs, 
ilavor  with  vanilla  and  a  lump  of  butter.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 


RECIPES   FOR  COOKING  123 

Spanish  Buns — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  floui^ 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves. 
Bake  in  a  small  dripping  pan  for  twenty  minutes.  Frost  to 
taste.  Mrs.  X.  Lemon,  San  Anselmo. 

Spice  Cake  No.  1 — One  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  brown  sugar,  three  eggs,  unbeaten,  first  one  then  the 
other,  etc. ;  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  level  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  two  cups  of  flour.  Add  small 
quantity  of  milk,  then  add  a  cup  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly. 
Reserve  last  of  milk  to  mix  spices.  Beat  thoroughly. 

Spice  Cake  No.  2 — One  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  egg,  one  large  cup  of  flour,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  and  one  cup  of  raisins.  Cream 
butter,  sugar  and  spices;  then  add  the  egg,  then  milk,  then 
flour,  with  soda  sifted  into  it,  and  lastly  the  raisins  with  a 
little  flour  rubbed  through  them.  Bake  about  two  hours. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Allen,  Bangor,  Cal. 

Spice  Cake  No.  3 — Cream  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  then  add  three  eggs  well  beat- 
en, three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt; 
stir  thoroughly,  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one  cup 
of  currants,  one-half  of  a  cup  of  raisins  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  ground  chocolate.  Mix  well  and  bake 
about  one-half  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  Derham. 

Spice  Cake  No.  4 — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  milk.  Cream  thoroughly 
the  above  ingredients  and  then  add:  Three  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour  well  sifted,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  One  cup  of  raisins  will  im- 
prove the  cake.  Bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  0.  Sirar. 


124  RECIPES  FOR   COOKING 

Sponge  Cake  No.  1 — Three  eggs  beaten  for  ten  minutes 
with  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  cold  water, 
pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flavoring  extract,  two  cups 
of  sifted  flour,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Plain  Sponge  Cake  No.  2 — Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
together  with  two  cups  of  fine  powdered  sugar ;  stir  in  grad- 
ually one  cup  of  sifted  flour  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  a  cup  of  sifted  flour  in  which 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  have  been  stirred,  and, 
lastly,  a  scant  teacupful  of  boiling  water  stirred  in  a  little  at 
a  time ;  flavor ;  add  salt,  and  however  thin  the  mixture  may 
seem  do  not  add  any  more  flour ;  bake  in  shallow  tins. 

Mrs.  Harry  Thornton. 

Sponge  Cake  No.  3 — Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  one 
cup  of  sugar  added  slowly,  four  tablespoonf uls  of  hot  water, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  pinch  of  salt,  and 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour;  flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Sponge  Cake  No.  4 — Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon 
or  vanilla  and  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Beat  the  whites 
and  yolks  separately  until  light,  then  place  them  together 
and  beat  again.  Sift  in  the  sugar  a  little  at  a  time  and  add 
flavoring  and  the  flour  with  baking  powder  sifted  together. 
Beat  all  together,  and  lastly  stir  in  the  hot  water.  Bake  in 
a  well  buttered  tin  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  Jones,  San  Anselmo. 

Quick  and  Easy  Layer  Cake — Sift  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
flour  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ;  add  one 
cup  of  sugar,  mixing  well.  Have  ready  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
a  cup  of  milk  and  flavoring ;  add  to  flour,  beating  thoroughly, 
and  lastly  add  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Bake  in 
quick  oven.  Fill  to  taste.  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Tipsy  Parson  (Excellent)— Take  a  stale  sponge  cake, 
crumble  it  up  fine ;  put  a  layer  of  it  in  a  glass  dish ;  sprinkle 


RECIPES  FOR   COOKING  125 

over  it  a  little  wine ;  add  a  large  handful  of  finely  chopped 
almonds,  then  a  layer  of  cream ;  then  begin  again  by  laying 
cake  crumbs  again  going  through  the  same  formula  leaving 
the  cream  on  top.  Makes  an  excellent  dish  for  tea  and 
looks  beautiful  on  table.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Walnut  Wafers — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  (beaten  to  a  cream),  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  chopped  walnuts,  one  pinch  of  salt,  and  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  (beaten  stiff).  Drop  from  teaspoon  on  buttered 
tin  and  bake  light  brown.  Mrs.  T.  P.,  Jr. 

White  Cake — Two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  butter, 
creamed,  three  cups  of  flour  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Mix  alternately  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar 
and  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  with  flour  and  lastly  the  milk. 
Beat  a  long  while  then  add  flavoring.  Frosting  keeps  the 
cake  moist  longer.  Mrs.  X.  J.  H. 

White  Fruit  Cake  No.  1 — To  one  cup  of  butter  beaten  to 
a  cream  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  of  flour  in  which  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  have  been  sifted,  and  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

When  done  (while  still  hot)  put  between  the  layers 
this  filling :  Chop  fine  one-quarter  pound  each  of  figs,  seeded 
raisins,  citron,  preserved  ginger  and  blanched  almonds,  and 
stir  them  into  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  a  cup  of 
powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Frost  the 
whole  quickly.  Mrs.  X.  J.  H. 

White  Fruit  Cake  No.  2 — One  pound  of  white  sugar, 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the  whites  of  sixteen 
eggs,  one  pound  of  flour,  two  cocoanuts,  grated ;  two  pounds 
of  citron,  one-half  a  pound  of  almonds  (blanched  and  sliced), 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar, 
end  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Meek,  Marysville. 

Scotch  Scones — Mix  and  sift  together  two  cupfuls  of 
bread  flour  (once  sifted),  four  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  (level),  two  teaspoonfuls  of  fine  granulated 
sugar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Work  in  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  using  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  then  add 


126  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

two  eggs  well  beaten  and  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  thin  cream. 
Toss  mixture  on  a  floured  board,  pat  and  roll  to  three-fourths 
of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  in  two-inch  squares  or  dia- 
monds, using  a  sharp  case  knife  first  dipped  in  flour.  Brush 
over  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  sprinkle  sparingly 
with  fine  granulated  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen 
minutes.  Pile  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  doily.  A  delicious 
tea  cake. 

Sea  Foam  Cake — One  and  one-fourth  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar r 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda.  Sift  the  above  three 
times,  then  add  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake 
in  pan  that  is  not  buttered,  same  as  for  Angel  Cake. 

Mrs.  0.  Sirard. 

Walnut  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, three  eggs,  one-half  a  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,, 
flavoring,  one-half  a  cup  of  chopped  walnuts,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  beat 
eggs,  milk,  flour,  baking  powder  and  nuts.  Cook  in  square 
pans,  ice  and  cut  in  squares  with  one-.half  a  walnut  on  each 
square. 

Walnut  Wafers — Beat  two  eggs  until  light,  then  add 
one  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  beat  again,  also  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  molasses.  Stir  in  one  cup  of  chopped  walnut  meats 
floured,  one-half  cup  of  flour  and  beat  well.  Drop  on  but- 
tered tins  in  very  small  spoonfuls  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  R,  L. 

White  Mountain  Cake — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,, 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  corn  starch,  one-half 
of  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  the  whites  of  six  eggs. 

World's  Fair  Cake — A  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour, 
three  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder.  (Add  following  mixture  to  cake)  :  One  and 
one-half  sections  of  chocolate,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  large  flat  pan. 
Frosting  for  above.  Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  butter  size 


RECIPES  TOR  COOKING  127 

of  an  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  and  three-fourths  of 
a  cup  of  milk.  Boil  twelve  minutes;  pour  into  a  bowl  and 
stir  rapidly  until  it  thickens.  Spread  on  cake. 

Zebra  Cake — Whites  of  five  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  boiling  water  and  three  cups  of  flour.  Cream  sugar 
and  butter,  beat  whites  of  eggs  to  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  with 
the  flour.  Take  out  five  tablespoonfuls  of  the  mixture,  put 
in  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  chopped 
raisins,  a  little  clove  and  cinnamon,  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg,, 
a  little  soda  to  raise  the  molasses  and  flour  to  make  a  batter. 
Bake  in  long  shallow  tins,  making  two  layers  of  the  white 
part  and  one  of  the  dark  part,  putting  a  layer  of  jelly  on 
each  side  6f  the  dark  part.  J.  N. 


128  RECIPES  FOR   COOKING 


Icings  and  Fillings 


Banana  Filling — Make  an  icing  of  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered  sugar.  Spread 
this  over  the  layers  and  cover  thickly  with  bananas  sliced 
thin  or  chopped  fine. 

Boiled  Icing — Boil  together  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
white  granulated  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water 
until  its  spins  a  thread  when  tested  with  a  spoon.  Add  this 
to  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  it  becomes 
thick  and  glossy.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Caramel  Filling  for  Cake — Two  cups  of  white  sugar, 
two-thirds  of  cup  of  milk  (vanilla  flavoring).  Boil  exactly 
seven  minutes,  stir  constantly.  Put  on  cake  and  when  set 
cover  this  with  melted  unsweetened  chocolate. 

Cocoanut  Filling — One-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful 
of  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Cream  butter  and 
.sugar;  add  milk,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  spread  on  layers; 
then  cover  thickly  with  cocoanut.  Mrs.  P.  J.  Haggarty. 

Chocolate  Icing  for  Layer  Cake — Boil  together  one  and 
one-half  cups 'of  white  granulated  sugar  with  one-half  cup 
of  boiling  water  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Melt  two  sections 
of  Baker's  unsweetened  chocolate  in  a  bowl  over  the  tea- 
kettle. Add  the  boiling  syrup  to  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten.  Then  add  the  melted  chocolate  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Beat  until  thick.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Chocolate  Icing  No  2 — Six  ounces  of  sugar  icing,  one 
ounce  of  granulated  chocolate,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 
Put  in  a  small  bright  pan ;  melt  sugar  but  do  not  boil.  When 
thick  as  cream  pour  over  the  cake.  J.  X. 

Frosting  Without  Eggs — Boil  two  cups  of  white  sugar 
with  one  cup  of  milk,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  while 
boiling.  Boil  till  a  small  quantity  poured  into  cold  water 
«an  be  gathered  by  the  fingers  into  a  ball,  then  add  flavor- 
ing and  beat  till  it  is  thick,  and  spread  on  cake. 

Belle  C.   Brown. 


130  RECIPES   FOR   COOKING 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.  For  Dinins  Rooin 

SAN  RAFAEL,  GAL.,  Furniture 


Fruit  and  Nut  Filling— Cook  three  cups  of  granulated 
sugar  with  one  cup  of  water  until  the  syrup  will  thread  from 
the  spoon  when  lifted;  pour  gradually  on  to  the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  add  one  cup  each  of  chopped 
raisins  and  pecan  meats,  and  five  figs  cut  in  thin  strips. 
Spread  between  layers  and  on  top,  icing  the  sides  also 
with  this  mixture. 

Marshmallow  Frosting — Heat  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  over  the  fire ;  boil  six 
minutes  without  stirring.  In  double  boiler  heat  one-fourth 
of  a  pound  of  cut  marshmallows ;  when  very  soft  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Cook  till  smooth.  Beat  in 
hot  sugar ;  keep  beating  till  partly  cool,  add  one-half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Use  at  once.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Raspberry  Filling — To  one  cupful  of  raspberries  or  any 
berries  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  the  white  of  one  egg ;  beat 
together  thirty-five  or  forty  minutes. 

Mrs.  P.  J.  Haggarty. 

Tutti  Frutti  Filling— Boil  half  a  cupful  of  water  with 
three  cnpfuls  of  sugar  until  it  is  thick  and  waxy ;  pour  over 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  whip  until  the  mix- 
ture becomes  cool.  Then  add  half  a  pound  of  almonds  chop- 
ped fine,  a  scant  half  cupful  of  chopped  raisins  and  a  little 
citron  sliced  thin.  Spread  at  once. 

Filling  for  Strawberry  Short  Cake — One  third  of  a  cup- 
of  butter  and  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  creamed  very  light ; 

two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  fresh  berries  put  in  whole  and  beaten 
hard. 

Very  Nice  Filling  for  Cake — Beat  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
powdered  sugar,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one-half  a  cup- 
of  cream,  one  cup  of  chopped  and  blanched  almonds,  and 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  until  stiff  enough  to  drop  from* 
the  spoon.  Mrs.  0.  Sirard. 


Ices  and  Frozen  Desserts 


Apricot  Ambrosia — To  one  quart  of  apricots  add  one 
pint  of  cold  water  and  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar;  the 
quantity  of  sugar  .may  be  increased  if  the  fruit  is  very  sour. 
Add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  the  white  of  one  well-beaten 
egg.  Mix  ingredients  and  freeze.  Mrs.  R.  L. 

Ice  Cream  No.  1 — One  quart  of  rich  cream,  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  (well  beaten),  sugar  and  vanilla  to  suit  the  taste. 
Put  into  freezer  and  when  chilled,  freeze. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Rutherford,  Bangor. 

Ice  Cream  No.  2 — One  gallon — Two  quarts  of  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  three  eggs,  yolks  cooked  in  half  of 
the  milk  with  the  flour  (stir  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk),  two 
cups  of  sugar  and  two  cups  of  cream  (or  one  pint).  Beat 
whites  stiff  and  stir  into  the  above  before  freezing.  Vanilla 
extract.  Be  sure  your  ice  is  very  fine  and  thoroughly  mixed 
with  one-third  salt.  Too  much  salt  makes  it  grainy. 

Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Peppermint  Ice  Cream — Crush  one  pound  of  old-fash- 
ioned red  stripe  pepperment  stick  candy,  and  add  to  one- 
half  gallon  of  rich  cream  that  has  been  heated  in  a  double 
boiler.  Stir  well,  let  cool  and  freeze.  Mrs.  R.  L. 

Italian  Cream — Soak  a  box  of  gelatine  an  hour  in  a 
quart  of  milk;  heat  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly. 
AYhen  boiling  remove  from  the  fire  and  pour,  beating  all  the 
time,  upon  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  which  have  been  whipped 
light ;  add  a  small  cup  of  sugar.  Return  to  the  fire  and  stir 
until  scalding  hot.  Strain;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  when 
cool  turn  into  a  mold.  Set  on  ice  to  form. 

Mrs.  Will  Larkins. 

Frozen  Custard — A  pint  of  milk,  a  cup  of  sugar,  two- 
pinches  of  salt,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream 
and  one  ounce  of  wine  or  brandy.  Freeze. 

Frozen  Fig  Pudding — Chop  one-half  pound  of  figs,  one- 
half  pound  of  dates,  and  one-half  pound  of  walnuts.  Soak 
one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  in  a  little  milk.  Make  a  cus- 


132  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

tarcl  of  one  quart  of  milk,  one,  cup  of  sugar  and  four  eggs. 
Add  the  softened  gelatine  to  this  while  still  hot.  When 
nearly  cold  add  the  chopped  fruit  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  and  freeze  as  usual.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Orange  Ice — Six  oranges — juice  of  all  and  grated  peel 
of  three;  two  lemons — juice  only — one  pint  of  sugar  dis- 
solved in  one  pint  of  water.  Stir  all  together  and  freeze. 

Sherbet — In  preparing  gelatine  sherbet,  soak  gelatine 
in  cold  water  about  thirty  minutes,  then  pour  over  it  boiling 
water  and  add  other  ingredients ;  when  sugar  is  dissolved 
strain  mixture  and  freeze. 

Strawberry  Junket — To  make  strawberry  junket,  put 
three  quarts  of  new  milk  and  one  quart  of  cream  over  the 
fire.  Add  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar.  When  the 
temperature  of  the  milk  is  at  blood  heat  add  four  junket  tab- 
lets which  have  been  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water. 
Pour  into  freezer  and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  congealed, 
then  pack  in  ice  and  freeze.  '  When  partly  frozen  add  two 
quarts  of  mashed  and  sweetened  strawberries,  to  which  has 
been  added  a  half  cupful  of  sherry ;  the  latter  will  keep  the 
strawberries  from  freezing  hard  and  becoming  tasteless. 

Maple  Parfait — Bring  one  cup  of  maple  syrup  to  a  boil 
and  add  the  yolks  of  five  well-beaten  eggs;  set  back  on  fire 
in  hot  water  and  allow  to  cook  until  mixture  adheres  to 
back  of  spoon.  When  cold  add  one  pint  of  cream  whipped 
stiff.  Pack  in  equal  quantities  of  salt  and  ice  for  four  hours. 

E.  C.  N.,  Sausalito. 

Bisque  Tcrtoni — In  a  double  saucepan  stir  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  Marsala 
wine,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  until  very  thick. 
Have  a  pint  of  rich  cream  whipped  stiff,  and  then  slowly 
add  the  thickened  yolks.  Pour  in  sherbet  glasses  and  set 
on  ice  for  about  two  hours.  Serve  with  small  cakes. 

Mrs.  G.,  San  Anselmo. 


SA  U  C  ES 


Celery  Sauce — Celery  sauce  is  easily  made,  and  is  appe- 
tizing. Cut  the  celery  in  small  pieces,  and  boil  until  it  is 
tender ;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
a  small  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  let  these  all  just  boil ; 
spice,  or  a  small  pinch  of  curry  powder  may  be  added,  if  you 
choose. 

Cranberry  Sauce — Wash  and  pick  a  quart  of  cranberries. 
Put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Boil  until 
perfectly  tender ;  then  add  two  cups  of  sugar.  Boil  up  once 
and  remove  from  the  fire.  If  properly  cooked,  each  cran- 
berry should  be  whole  and  jellied.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Lemon  Sauce — One  cup  of  boiling  water,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind 
of  half  a  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Mix  corn  starch  and  sugar  in 
saucepan.  Add  the  boiling  water  and  stir  until  smooth. 
Put  in  grated  lemon  rind  and  stir  over  fire  until  boiling; 
simmer  five  minutes  and  then  stir  in  juice  of  lemon  and 
butter.  F.  O.  S. 

Mustard  Sauce — Stir  together  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mus- 
tard, a  level  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  a  level  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  one-half  cupful  of  vinegar;  stir  in  all  the 
grated  horseradish  that  this  will  moisten  and  serve  with  any 
kind  of  cold  meat. 

Pudding  Sauce — One  cup  of  sugar  with  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch  mixed  through  it  dry,  and  one  scant 
half  cup  of  butter  stirred  to  a  cream  with  the  sugar;  over 
this  *pour  one  teacupful  of  boiling  water ;  cook  slowly  a 
few  minutes.  Flavor  to  taste;  a  little  sherry  and  nutmeg 
is  very  nice.  Mrs.  G.,  Ross. 

Sour  Sauce — Stir  one-half  a  cup  of  butter  with  a  teaspoo 
ful  of  French  mustard,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  mix  well  with 
a  cup  of  hot  vinegar.  If  the  vinegar  is  very  strong,  weaken, 
it.  Serve  with  boiled  lobster  or  fish. 

Mrs.  Arthur  L.  Silling. 


134  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Tartar  Sauce — First  make  a  mayonnaise;  mix  with  it 
one  tablespoonful  each  of  chopped  parsley,  capers,  and 
.gherkins,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onions. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Silling. 


Pickles,  Jellies,  Preserves 


About  Pickles  and  Preserves — In  making  preserves  the 
following  are  excellent  rules  to  observe:  1.  The  fruit  must 
be  gathered  dry.  2.  It  must  be  carefully  stirred  with  a 
wooden  spoon  to  prevent  burning.  3.  It  must  be  slowly  boiled 
before  adding  sugar,  and  quickly  boiled  afterward.  4.  It 
must  be  put  in  well-dried  pots,  and  kept  in  a  dry,  airy  place. 

To  Pickle  Beets — To  pickle  beets,  wash  the  roots  very 
clean,  but  do  not  scrape  them ;  put  them  into  boiling  water, 
and  keep  them  boiling  from  two  to  three  hours,  till  perfectly 
tender.  Take  them  out  and  let  them  remain  till  cold,  then 
pare  and  slice  the  root,  cover  it  with  vinegar  which  has  been 
boiled  and  cooled,  and  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
half  the  quantity  of  cayenne  has  been  boiled.  Put  the  pickle 
into  jars,  and  in  a  few  days  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Red  Currant  Preserve — In  making  red  currant  preserve 
be  sure  to  remember  that  to  every  pound  of  fruit  you  allow 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Weigh  the  cur- 
rants, and  afterwards  strip  them  from  the  stalks  (do  this 
with  a  fork  to  prevent  staining  the  hands).  Place  fruit  and 
sugar  in  preserving  pan,  and  boil  for  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 

.    Brine — To  make  brine,  take  a  proportion  of  one  quart 
of  rock  salt  to  three  quarts  of  boiling  water.    Boil  and  strain. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan.. 

Chili  Sauce  No.  1 — Peel  twelve  medium-sized  ripe  to- 
matoes and  cut  in  slices  crosswise.  Put  in  a  preserving 
kettle  with  one  green  pepper  finely  chopped,  one  onion  finely 
chopped,  two  cupfuls  of  vinegar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  all- 
spice and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  grated  nutmeg.  Heat  grad- 
ually to  the  boiling  point,  and  let  simmer  two  and  one-half 
hours.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Chili  Sauce  No.  2 — Six  ripe  tomatoes,  two  onions,  two 
green  bell  peppers,  one  red  bell  pepper,  one  stalk  of  celery, 


136  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  allspice, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black 
pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne pepper.  Add  one  cup  of  vinegar  and  boil  down  until 
thick.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Chili  Sauce  No.  3 — One  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes,  six 
green  peppers,  three  large  onions,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  salt, 
one  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  four  hours.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Hund. 

Chili  Sauce  No.  4 — Fourteen  ripe  tomatoes,  two  onions,. 
two  peppers,  two  cups  of  vinegar,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  salt.  Peel  and  chop  to- 
matoes and  drain ;  chop  peppers  and  onions  fine ;  cook  slowly 
until  thick.  M.  J.  H.,  San  Anselmo. 

Chow-Chow  No.  1 — Wipe  two  quarts  of  small  green  to- 
matoes and  pare  twelve  small  cucumbers.  Cut  three  red 
peppers  in  halves,  crosswise,  and  remove  the  seeds.  Remove 
the  leaves  and  cut  off  the  stalk  from  one  cauliflower  and  soak 
for  twenty  minutes  (head  down)  in  enough  cold  water  to 
cover.  Remove  the  leaves  and  wash  two  bunches  of  celery. 
Remove  the  skins  from  one  pint  of  small  onions;  remove 
the  strings  from  two  quarts  of  string  beans.  Cut 
all  the  prepared  vegetables  into  small  pieces,  cover  with  half 
a  cupful  of  salt,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  drain.  Mix 
one-fourth  pound  mustard  seed,  half  an  ounce  of  allspice, 
half  an  ounce  of  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  two- 
ounces  turmeric.  Add  this  mixture  to  one  gallon  of  vine- 
gar; heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point;  then  add  the  pre- 
pared vegetables  and  let  simmer  until  the  vegetables  are 
soft.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Chow-Chow  No.  2 — Chop  equal  quantities  of  green  to- 
matoes and  cabbage  quite  fine ;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  between 
the  layers;  put  a  layer  of  green  peppers  with  the  tomatoes 
and  cabbage ;  let  it  stand  in  salt  over  night,  and  then  if  too 
salt  squeeze  it  a  little.  Put  in  a  handful  of  mustard  seed, 
teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  scald  for  a  short  time  in  vinegar — about  a  couple  of 
hours. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  137 

Coutts-Meyer  Furniture  Co.    complete  House 

SAN  RAFAEL,  CAL.  Furnishers 


Chutney  Sauce — Eight  quarts  of  tomatoes,  three  cups 
of  sweet  peppers,  two  cups  of  onions,  three  cups  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  salt,  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  vinegar,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cloves,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  ginger  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  nutmeg. 
Boil  one  hour  and  keep  in  air-tight  fruit  jars.  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Tomato  Chowder — Half  a  pound  of  green  tomatoes,  one 
dozen  onions  and  one  dozen  green  peppers  chopped  fine; 
sprinkle  over  this  one  pint  of  salt  and  let  it  stand  over  night. 
Pour  off  this  brine  and  cover  with  good  vinegar ;  let  it  cook 
one  hour  slowly,  then  drain  and  pack  in  a  jar.  Take  two 
pounds  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon;  one  table- 
spoonful  -of  allspice,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves  and 
pepper,  half  a  teacupful  of  ground  mustard,  one  pint  grated 
horseradish;  mix  the  sugar,  spices,  horseradish  and  mustard 
with  vinegar.  Heat  boiling  hot  and  pour  over  other  ingre- 
dients ;  put  in  a  cool  place,  cover  tightly.  This  will  keep  a 
year  or  longer.  Mrs.  Richard  Leach. 

Tomato  Chutney — Thirty  tomatoes,  six  apples  chopped, 
six  onions,  t°n  ounces  of  salt,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  four  ounces  of  ginger  and  three  pints  of  cider  vinegar. 

Mrs.  M.  Briggs,  S.  A. 

Tomato  Catsup  No.  1 — Take  half  a  box  of  nice  ripe  to- 
matoes, peel  and  core;  put  in  agate  boiler  and  cook  slowly 
for  half  an  hour ;  then  strain  to  get  out  seeds  and  hard  pulp. 
Put  juice  back  in  boiler  and  boil  slowly  without  cover  from 
six  to  eight  hours  until  it  is  thick  like  paste.  Then  cut  up 
six  good-sized  silver  onions  very  fine;  also  six  long  green 
peppers,  seeded;  put  them  in  the  catsup  and  let  boil  slowly 
for  half  an  hour,  then  add  vinegar  which  should  be  prepared 
in  advance  as  follows:  Take  three  pints  of  good  cider  or 
wine  vinegar  and  boil  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes  and  skim 
oi¥  scum;  then  put  in  two  ounces  each  of  whole  allspice, 
black  pepper  and  cloves ;  cover  and  set  away  for  ten  hours ; 
then  strain  out  spices.  Put  vinegar,  half  a  cup  of  white 


138  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  white  salt  in  catsup 
and  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Bottle  at  once  and  cork 
;tight.  Mary  E.  Eden. 

Tomato  Catsup  No.  2 — Peel  one  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes, 
.and  cut  in  pieces.  Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle;  bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  soft;  then  force 
through  a  sieve.  Add  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-fourth 
of  a  cupful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one-eighth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  and  one  quart  of  vinegar.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  of  the  right  con- 
sistency, the  time  required  being  about  two  and  one-half  to 
three  hours.  Turn  into  bottles,  filling  the  bottles  to  over- 
flowing, cork  and  seal.  It  must  always  be  remembered  in 
filling  glass  jars  or  bottles  with  a  hot  mixture  to  place  them 
•on  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Tomato  Catsup  No.  3 — To  each  four  quarts  of  ripe  to- 
mato pulp,  allow  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  sugar,  one-half  dessertspoonful  of  red  pepper,  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  ground  clove,  ground  mustard,  cinnamon, 
ginger  and  allspice  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Sew 
the  cloves,  mustard,  cinnamon,  ginger  and  allspice  up  in  a 
bag,  and  boil  steadily  with  the  other  ingredients  for  three 
hours.  Bottle  while  hot. 

Tomato  Catsup  No.  4 — Two  gallons  of  tomatoes,  boiled 
and  strained,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  seven  tablespoonfuls  of 
.salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper,  two  and  a  half  table- 
spoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of 
allspice,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  mustard.  Boil  four  and  a  half  hours.  Mrs.  S.  E.  Allen. 

Tomato  Catsup  No.  5 — Use  one  peck  of  raw,  ripe  toma- 
toes, one  pint  of  vinegar,  half  a  cupful  of  salt,  half  an  ounce 
of  ground  cloves,  one  ounce  of  ground  allspice,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  and  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper. 
Wash  the  tomatoes  and  cut  them  in  slices.  Put  them  on 
the  fire  in  the  preserving  kettle,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour ; 
then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Put  the  strained  tomato  into  the 
kettle,  and  add  the.  other  ingredients.  Boil  gently  for  eight 
hours,  stirring  often.  Bottle  while  hot. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  139 

Mustard  Pickles  No.  1 — Thirty  pounds  of  small  cucum- 
bers, two  quarts  of  wax  beans,  four  pounds  of  small  white 
onions,  five  heads  of  cauliflower,  two  heads  of  celery  cut 
fine,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  pound 
of  white  mustard  seed,  one-half  pound  of  Coleman's  mus- 
tard, one  ounce  of  celery  seed,  one  ounce  of  tumeric  powder, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  ' 
cinnamon,  two  cups  of  flour,  three  quarts  of  cider  vinegar,' 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  Tarragon  vinegar  and  two  quarts  of 
water.  Prepare  cucumbers  and  onions  and  pour  over  them 
a  strong  hot  brine.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then 
cook  the  cauliflower  and  beans  until  tender,  but  not  soft. 
Drain  off  the  cucumbers  and  onions  and  put  on  the  fire  cov- 
ered with  cold  water  and  a  cup  of  vinegar,  and  let  come  to  a 
boil.  Take  from  the  fire,  strain  off  the  water,  add  the  cauli- 
flower, which  should  be  broken  into  small  branches;  the 
beans  and  the  celery.  Put  into  a  large  crock.  Mix  the 
spices  with  the  water  to  make  a  thin  paste  and  add  to  hot 
vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  pickles.  This  recipe  will  make 
about  eight  gallons.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Mustard  Pickles  No.  2 — Eight  red-nosed  peppers  cut 
fine,  two  quarts  of  large-sized  gherkins  cut  up,  two  quarts 
of  small  silver  button  onions  and  four  quarts  of  green  to- 
matoes cut  in  pieces  (cover  all  with  water  and  two  cups  of 
salt  and  let  stand  over  night ;  then  drain  and  add  to  dressing 
while  hot). 

Dressing — Two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  three  cups  of 
brown  sugar,  two  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  tumeric  and 
twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard.  Mix  this  with  one  quart 
of  cold  vinegar ;  then  add  three  quarts  of  hot  vinegar.  Cook 
until  thick.  (September  or  October  is  the  best  time.) 

Mrs.  T.  P.  Jr. 

French  Mustard — Fine — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  mus- 
tard, one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one  egg.  Beat  together 
and  add  one  cup  of  vinegar;  cook  until  quite  thick;  when 
cold  add  one  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  and  beat  well;  will 
keep  well.  ^Irs-  R-  Leach. 

Mrs.  Dixon's  Pickle — Two  quarts  of  onions,  two  quarts 
of  cucumbers  (small),  two  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  one 


140  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

quart  of  chopped  apples,  one  quart  green  and  red  peppers,- 
two  cauliflowers,  and  two  heads  of  celery.  Chop  fine  and 
let  stand  all  night  in  salt,  except  apples  and  celery.  Drain 
in  morning  and  scald  in  one  gallon  of  vinegar  with  lumps  of 
alum  until  tender.  Throw  this  scald  of  vinegar  away. 

Dressing — Half  a  pound  of  ground  mustard,  half  an 
ounce  of  celery  seed,  half  an  ounce  of  tumeric,  half  an  ounce 
of  mustard  seed,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  one  gallon  of 
boiling  vinegar.  Mix  all  the  dressing  separately  from  the 
pickle  and  thicken  writh  one  cup  of  flour. 

To  Pickle  Olives — Olives  ripen  in  winter,  and  should  be 
picked  from  the  trees  when  they  turn  purple.  Care  should 
be  taken  in  handling  the  fruit  when  gathering  it,  so  that  it 
will  not  be  bruised.  After  they  are  gathered,  put  them  in 
a  weak  solution  of  lye  for  two  or  three  days,  until  the  bitter 
taste  is  removed.  The  olives  are  then  put  into  cold  water, 
which  should  be  changed  twice  daily,  until  all  taste  of  the 
lye  has  disappeared.  They  are  then  placed  in  weak  brine 
for  three  or  four  days,  after  which  they  are  changed  into 
brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg,  where  they  will  keep 
indefinitely.  M.  H. 

Onion  Pickles — Wipe  three  quarts  of  small  unripe  cu- 
cumbers and  cut  in  slices.  Remove  the  skins  from  one  pint 
of  small  onions,  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  To  the  cucumbers 
and  onions  add  one  cupful  of  salt;  mix  thoroughly;  cover, 
and  let  stand  for  six  hours.  Drain,  and  add  one  quart  of 
vinegar  and  one  pint  of  olive  oil.  Pack  in  a  crock  or  stone 
jar.  Mrs.  R.  L. 

Pickled  Onions — Peel  four  quarts  of  small  white  onions 
and  cover  with  a  brine  made  by  adding  one  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls  of  salt  to  two  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Let  stand  for 
two  days,  drain  and  cover  with  a  similar  brine ;  let  stand  two 
days  and  again  drain.  Make  more  brine  and  heat  to  the 
boiling  point;  put  in  the  onions  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Drain  and  put  in  bottles,  interspersing  with  bits  of  mace, 
white  peppercorns  and  slices  of  red  pepper.  Fill  the  bottles 
to  overflowing  with  vinegar  scalded  with  sugar,  allowing  half 
a  cupful  of  sugar  to  two  quarts  of  vinegar.  Cork  while 
hot.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  141 

Combination  Pickle — This  is  easily  and  quickly  made,  no 
Booking  being  required.  Use  three  quarts  of  ripe  tomatoes, 
pared  and  chopped  fine,  half  a  pint  of  grated  horseradish, 
one  pint  of  celery  chopped  fine,  half  a  cupful  of  chopped 
onions,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  seed,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  red  peppers,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  eight  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon, 
a  level  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  mace,  and  one  quart 
of  vinegar.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  and  then 
pack  the  pickle  in  a  stone  jar. '  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in 
a  few  days,  and  will  keep  for  months  in  a  cool  place. 

Sweet  Pickles — To  every  seven  pounds  of  fruit,  allow 
three  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  good  cider  vin- 
egar, two  ounces  of  whole  cloves  and  two  sticks  of  cinnamon. 
Put  the  prepared  fruit  in  a  stone  jar  and  pour  vinegar  scald- 
ing hot  over  4t.  Repeat  this  for  three  mornings  and  the  last 
morning  boil  fruit  with  syrup  till  tender. 

Mrs.  Will  Larkins. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle — One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one 
dozen  large  onions,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  teaspoonfuls  of 
cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mace,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cloves,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  mustard  and  two  red  pep- 
pers, chopped  fine.  Slice  tomatoes  and  onions,  place  in  a 
jar;  sprinkle  salt  between  each  layer;  let  stand  over  night; 
drain  in  the  morning ;  place  on  stove  with  spices  and  cover 
^vvith  vinegar;  boil  until  tender.  Bottle  in  jars. 

Mrs.  Harry  J.  Clinch. 

Yellow  Tomato  Preserves — Take  ten  pounds  of  yellow 
tomatoes,  scald  and  peel.  Press  out  most  all  the  juice,  and 
to  every  pound  of  tomatoes  remaining  add  three-fourths  of 
a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  until  tomatoes  look  clear,  then  add 
the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  three  or  four  slices  of  lemon  and 
boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer  or  until  they  are  thick 
enough.  (Boil  in  bright  tin  and  be  sure  to  remove  all  seeds 
from  lemon.)  Mrs.  W.  D.  Rutherford,  Bangor,  Cal. 

Apricot  Marmalade  No.  1— Twelve  pounds  of  apricots 
(weighed  after  paring  and  removing  stones),  seven  pounds 
of  sugar,  two  pint  cans  of  pineapple,  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
4>f  walnuts.  Cut  apricots  in  small  pieces,  put  in  kettle  with 


142  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

juice  of  pineapple  and  a  couple  of  glasses  of  water;  cook 
about  one  and  a  half  hours  with  a  slow  fire ;  then  add  sugar; 
cook  again  until  it  looks  rich  and  thickens  a  little ;  then  add 
pineapple  and  nuts  (which  must  be  chopped  very  fine  or  put 
through  a  food  chopper).  Let  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  seal 
in  glass  jars.  ,  Alice  Harden,  San  Francisco. 

Apricot  Marmalade  No.  2. — Seven  pounds  of  apricots 
after  they  have  been  stewed  and  stoned,  half  of  kernels 
chopped  and  five  pounds  of  sugar.  Stew  apricots  about  one 
hour  before  measuring;  then' measure,  add  sugar  and  kernels 
and  cook  until  thick.  Put  one  cup  of  water  in  apricots  be- 
fore stewing  them.  Mrs.  N.  Jones,  San  Anselmo. 

Apricot  and  Pineapple  Marmalade— Stone  the  apricots; 
adc^  one-half  a  pound  of  fresh  pineapple  to  every  pound  of 
apricots;  stew  gently  for  twenty  minues.  To  every  pound 
of  the  combined  fruit  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
heated  sugar.  Boil  until  thick  and  seal  tightly  in  fruit  jars. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Cranberry  Jelly — Cook  a  quart  of  cranberries  until  per- 
fectly soft  in  just  sufficient  water  to  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing. Strain,  add  from  one  and  one-half  to  two  cups  of 
sugar,  warm  the  latter  before  stirring  it  in;  let  boil  up  once 
and  rjpur  into  mold. 

Spiced  Currants — Stem  and  wash  the  currants  and  put 
into  a  kettle  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Then  add  as  many 
pounds  of  sugar  heated  in  the  oven  as  you  have  pounds  of 
currants.  To  a  proportion  of  seven  pounds  of  stemmed  cur- 
rants, add  seven  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  one-half  a  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  ground  nutmeg,  cloves  and  allspice.  Boil  gently 
until  the  currants  jelly  when  dropped  from  a  spoon ;  about 
an  hour,  at  least.  Put  in  glasses  and  cover  with  paraffine. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Figs  and  Walnuts — Pare  figs  and  sprinkle  heavily  with 
sugar,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Turn  into  a  preserving 
kettle  and  let  cook  two  hours.  Add  one  cupful  of  sugar 
to  one  pint  of  fruit  and  the  'juice  of  a  lemon,  large.  Let 
this  cook  until  transparent  and  until  it  will  jelly,  which  wilt 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  143 

he  two  hours  or  more.  Stir  frequently  to  prevent  burning. 
Half  an  hour  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  slightly 
chopped  walnuts,  about  a  half  cupful  to  a  pint  of  fruit.  This 
can  be  put  in  small  glass  jars  or  jelly  tumblers.  J.  X. 

Orange  Marmalade  No.l — Slice  a  dozen  oranges,  skins  and 
all.  with  a  potato  slicer  (the  kind  that  comes  for  Saratoga 
potatoes)  ;  weigh  the  sliced  fruit  and  to  each  pound  add  one 
and  a  half  pints  of  water  and  boil  for  three-foitrths  of  an 
hour ;  then  let  it  stand  for  twenty-four  hours ;  weigh  it  again 
and.  to  each  pound  add  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  and 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes,  not 
longer.  Use  common  sour  oranges,  taking  out  the  seeds  as 
you  slice  them.  Mary  E.  Eden. 

Orange  Marmalade  No.  2 — Boil  twelve  oranges  and  seven 
lemons  in  water  two  and  a  half  to  three  hours.  Drain  off 
water  and  open  oranges  and  lemons,  taking  out  seeds  and 
retaining  all  the  pulp  and  juice  possible.  Cut  the  rind  in 
small  strips.  Weigh  it  all  and  then  allow  three  pounds  of 
sugar  to  two  pounds  of  the  pulp.  Boil  slowly  and  stir  un- 
til clear.  Mrs.  X.  J.  H. 

Orange  Marmalade  No.  3 — Use  twelve  large  oranges; 
slice  oranges  very  thin.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  three 
pints  of  water,  cold.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Boil 
until  tender.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours  longer.  To  each 
pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  sugar  and  boil  until  it 
hardens ;  just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  the  juice  of  six 
lemons.  E.  C.  X.,  Sausalito. 

Peach  Butter — Pare  ripe  peaches,  and  put  in  a  preserv- 
ing kettle,  with  sufficient  water  to  boil  them  soft;  then  sift 
through  a  colander,  removing  the  stones.  To  each  quart  of 
peaches  put  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar,  and  boil  very 
slowly  one  hour.  Stir  often  and  do  not  let  them  burn.  Put 
in  stone  or  glass  jars  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Pickled  Peaches — Peel  the  peaches,  weight  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  make  a 
thick  syrup.  Stick  several  whole  cloves  into  each  peach. 
Drop  a  few  at  a  time  into  the  syrup  and  boil  until  tender. 


144  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Take  up  and  lay  in  a  stone  crock.  Boil  down  the  syrup 
until  very  thick.  Measure  the  syrup  and  to  each  quart  of 
syrup  add  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  cider  vinegar  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  Tarragon  vinegar.  Boil  five  minutes  and 
pour  over  the  peaches.  Break  up  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon 
over  peaches  and  close  the  jar.  White  figs  are  pickled  in 
the  same  way.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Gagan. 

Raspberry  Jam — To  every  quart  of  ripe  raspberries,  al- 
low a  pound  of  the  best  loaf  sugar.  Put  sugar  and  berries 
into  a  pan,  and  let  them  stand  two  or  three  hours.  Then 
boil  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  taking  off  the  scum  carefully ; 
when  no  more  scum  arises,  mash  them  and  boil  them  to  a 
smooth  marmalade.  When  cool  put  them  in  glass  tumblers. 

Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

Rhubarb  Jam — To  each  quart  of  rhubarb  allow  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  sugar.  Remove  the  white  rinds  and  pips 
from  six  oranges,  and  slice  peel  and  pulp  into  the  preserving 
kettle  with  the  rhubarb  and  sugar.  Cook  all  slowly  until 
thick  as  desired. 

Rhubarb  Marmalade — To  four  quarts  of  rhubarb,  cut  up 
without  pealing,  allow  four  pounds  of  sugar  and  two 
oranges  sliced,  with  peel;  also  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins 
cut  in  two.  Cook  all  together  slowly  for  three  hours,  taking 
care  that  it  does  not  scorch. 

Baked  Quinces — Pare,  quarter  and  seed  quinces;  then 
stew  them  in  clear  water  until  tender ;  put  into  baking  dish 
with  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  with  every  eight  quinces; 
pour  over  them  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled;  cover 
closely  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  one  hour;  then  put  in  jars 
and  seal  tight.  Miss  C.  O'Connor,  San  Rafael. 


BEVERAGES 


Champagne  Punch— (For  fifty  people)— Two  pounds 
of  sugar,  one  quart  of  lemon  juice,  two  quarts  of  Rhine  wine, 
one  pint  of  brandy,  three  quarts  of  champagne  (cold),  five 
quarts  of  White  Rock  and  half  a  pint  each  of  Curacoa,  Ar- 
rack, peach  brandy,  Maraschino  and  one  large  piece  of  ice. 
This  may  be  frapped,  by  putting  it  into  an  ice  cream  freezer 
and  turning  until  soft.  E.  C.  N.,  Sausalito. 

Chocolate — Put  one-third  of  a  square  of  chocolate  with 
a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  into  a 
saucepan.  Set  the  pan  over  the  fire  and  stir,  moving  piece 
of  chocolate  through  water  until  it  is  melted.  Ready  to 
serve  when  boiling  point  is  reached. 

Claret  Cup — One  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sugar,  one  pony  of  brandy,  one  pony  of  Curacoa,  one  bottle 
of  claret,  one  orange  sliced,  two  pieces  of  cucumber  peel,  one 
pint  of  Appollinaris  water  and  one  piece  of  ice,  with  bunch 
of  green  mint  on  top.  This  is  sufficient  for  six  people.. 

E.  C.  N.,  Sausalito.. 

Coffee — Best  mixture,  two  parts  of  Java  to  one  part  of 
Mocha.  Grind  roasted  beans,  just  before  using.  Fair 
strength,  one  tablespoonful  of  coffee  to  one  pint  of  water. 
With  the  ground  coffee  mix  white  of  one  egg  and  a  little  cold 
water.  Pour  over  it  boiling  water;  simmer  five  minutes 
and  steep  for  ten  minutes. 

Ccccd — Cup  of  boiling  water,  cup  of  boiling  milk,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cocoa  and  sugar  to  taste. 

Cream  Nectar — Take  one  ounce  tartaric  acid  and  add 
to  it  one  ounce  cream  of  tartar,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
sugar,  one  pint  of  water,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten,  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour.  Heat  the  mixture,  but 
not  to  the  boiling  point,  and  then  add  a  drop  or  two  of  good 
oil  of  lemon  or  any  other  good  flavor  you  choose.  This 
makes  a  good  syrup,  which  should  be  used  as  follows :  Fill 
a  glass  half  full  of  water  (or  two-thirds),  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  syrup  and  as  much  baking  soda  (bi-carbon- 


146  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

ate  of  soda)  as  you  can  put  on  a  ten-cent  piece.  This  makes 
a  delightful,  cool  and  refreshing  drink.  It  should  be  drank 
immediately  after  preparing. 

Egg  Nogg — Ten  eggs;  the  yellow  beaten  as  thin  as 
water,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  then  beat  half  the 
whites  into  the  yellow;  use  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  for 
every  egg  beaten  up  in  the  yellow ;  then  pour  in  slowly  three 
pints  of  brandy  and  one  and  one-half  pints  of  rum;  then 
slowly  three  quarts  of  good  rich  milk,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Put  the  other  half  of  the  whites  on  top  and  sprinkle  with 
nutmeg.  This  makes  one  gallon — enough  for  twenty  people. 

E.  C.  N.,  Sausalito. 

Fruit  Punch — One  dozen  lemons,  one  half  dozen  oranges, 
one  can  of  pineapple;  boil  four  cups  of  sugar  in  four  pints 
of  water  ten  minutes ;  cool  and  add  one  gallon  of  water. 
Grate  the  pineapple ;  press  juice  from  the  lemons  and 
oranges ;  serve  with  cracked  ice.  Maud  Kaneen. 

Fruit  Punch  for  Balls  and  Parties — Twelve  dozen  lemons, 
one  quart  of  strawberries,  two  quarts  of  pineapple,  one  pint 
of  raspberries;  boil  sixteen  pounds  of  sugar  in  two  gallons 
of  water  ten  minutes;  cool  and  add  to  eighteen  gallons  of 
water.  Grate  pineapples,  press  juice  from  lemons  and  add 
one  small  bottle  of  fruit  juice  to  have  the  coloring. 

Maud   Kaneen. 

Homemade  Apple  Ginger — Take  six  ounces  of  whole 
white  ginger,  bruise  it  a  little,  put  into  a  pan  with  four  pints 
of  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  till  soft,  then  drain  off  the 
liquid.  Take  six  pounds  of  apples,  cutting  each  into  six 
pieces  (the  long  way),  core  and  pare  them ;  add  six  pounds  of 
lump  or  granulated  sugar.  Boil  the  whole  slowly,  adding 
no  more  water  than  that  poured  off  the  ginger.  Shake  often 
to  prevent  burning.  Boil  rather  more  than  an  hour,  or  till 
the  fruit  becomes'  a  clear  brown  color  and  transparent.  . 

Raspberry  Syrup — Seven  baskets  of  raspberries,  two 
quarts  of  water,  and  four  ounces  of  tartaric  acid.  Let  it 
stand  twenty-four  hours ;  strain,  add  ten  pounds  of  sugar. 
Let  stand  until  all  of  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  two  or  three 
days  if  necessary.  Stir  often.  Mrs.  F.  Kerz. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  147 

Roman  Punch — Juice  of  half  a  dozen  lemons  or  one 
dozen  limes,  juice  of  one  can  of  grated  pineapple,  one  sup 
of  cold  water,  white  of  one  egg:  beaten  slightly ;  a  wineglass 
of  Jamaica  rum  and  one  and  a  half  cups  of  white  sugar.  If 
not  sweet  enough  to  suit  add  more  sugar  and  freeze  rapidly 
to  make  creamy.  Mary  E.  Eden. 

Suterne  Punch— (For  fifty)— Two  quarts  of  White  Rock, 
two  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  one  quart  of  lemon  juice, 
five  quarts  of  Sauterne.  one  quart  of  brandy,  half  pint  of  ap- 
ple brandy,  one-fourth  of  a  pint  of  rum,  one-fourth  of  a  pint 
of  Arrack,  one-fourth  of  a  pint  of  Curacoa,  one-fourth  of  a 
pint  of  Maraschino  and  one  large  piece  of  ice.  Decorate 
with  sliced  oranges,  lemons  and  strawberries. 

E.  C.  X.,  Sausalito. 

Wholesome  Summer  Drink — Here  is  a  recipe  for  a  very 
good  and  wholesome  summer  drink :  Take  one  ounce  of 
tartaric  acid,  one  breakfast  cupful  of  sugar,  two  and  one- 
half  breakfast  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
essence  of  lemon,  and  one  white  of  an  egg.  Pour  the  boiling 
water  over  the  sugar,  stirring  occasionally.  When  cold,  add 
the  acid  and  essence  and  well-whisked  white  of  the  egg. 
Bottle.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  to  one  tumbler  of  water, 
and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  if  liked. 

Effervescing  Lemonade — Effervescing  lemonade  is  made 
by  taking  four  ounces  of  sugar,  thirty-six  drops  of  essence 
of  lemon,  six  drams  of  bicarbonate  of  potash,  and  fresh  water 
to  fill  the  twelve  bottles.  Dissolve  the  ingredients  in  water 
and  fill  the  bottles ;  then  add  to  each  bottle  thirty-five  grains 
of  citric  acid  in  crystals.  Cork  and  tie  down  at  once,  and 
it  will  be  ready  for  drinking  next  day. 


RkOIPES  FOR  COOKING 


SANDWICHES 


Celery  Sandwiches — Take  equal  parts  of  finely  chopped 
celery,  walnut  meats  and  olives.  Mix  with  French  dressing 
and  put  between  thinly  cut  slices  of  buttered  brown  bread. 

Mrs.  G. 

Cheese  Sandwiches — Put  thin  slices  of  Swiss  cheese  on 
a  lettuce  leaf,  cover  with  mayonnaise  and  place  between  thin 
slices  of  bread  and  butter.  Mrs.  R.  L. 

Chicken  Livers  and  Cheese — Three  chicken  livers,  six 
olives,  the  juice  of  an  onion,  one  green  pepper,  a  few  sprays 
of  cress  and  a  stalk  of  celery.  Chop  to  a  paste,  and  add 
to  a  package  of  cream  cheese.  Work  well ;  add  pepper,  salt 
and  mayonnaise,  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  G.,  San  Anselmo. 

Hot  Biscuit  Chicken  Mayonnaise  Sandwich — Chop  the- 
breast  of  a  chicken  quite  fine  with  six  olives,  a  tiny  stalk  of 
celery  and  a  strip  of  green  pepper ;  add  mayonnaise  to  make 
a  good  paste,  and  season  to  taste.  Have  ready  tiny  raised 
biscuits,  tear  them  apart,  spread  and  add  the  filling.  Serve 
hot  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Sweetbreads  are  delicious  made  the 
same  way.  Mrs.  G.,  San  Anselmo. 

Nut  Cream  Rolls — Put  three 'tablespoonfuls  of  ground 
walnuts  into  enough  apricot  brandy  to  cover  them ;  add  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg;  let 
stand  several  hours ;  drain  and  add  two  spoonfuls  of  whipped 
cream.  Beat  smooth  and  spread  thinly  on  one  slice  that  has 
been  previously  buttered,  and  crust  cut  off.  Roll  carefully 
and  tie  with  white  baby  ribbon.  Dip  ends  of  the  rolls  in 
whipped  cream,  and  then  into  powdered  nuts ;  draw  a  spray 
of  parsley  through  the  bow.  Mrs.  G.>  San  Anselmo. 

For  Cold  Lunch — Slice  cold  boiled  beef  tongue  or  any 
other  meat;  chop  onion  and  celery  very  fine;  put  some  on 
each  slice  and  also  teaspoonful  of  mayonnaise. 

Olive  Sandwiches — Stone  and  chop  olives  and  mix  with 
mayonnaise ;  slice  bread  very  thin  and  butter  it ;  either  white 
or  brown  bread  may  be  used.  Mrs.  M.  Briggs,  S.  A. 


150  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Russian  Sandwiches — Spread  zephyrettes  with  thin 
slices  of  cream  cheese ;  cover  with  chopped  olives  mixed  with 
mayonnoise;  place  a  zephyrette  over  each  and  press  to- 
gether. Mrs.  T.  G.  Howe,  Redding. 

Sardine  Sandwiches  No.  1 — Can  of  sardines;  place  sar- 
dines on  a  plate  and  carefully  remove  bone.  Mash  sardines 
into  a  pulp  and  add  some  of  the  oil  from  the  can,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  catsup ;  mix  well  and  place  between  slices  of 
bread  and  butter.  A  lettuce  leaf  is  quite  an  improvement. 

Mrs.  R.  L. 

Sardine  Sandwiches  No.  2 — Take  a  slice  of  milk  bread 
and  spread  it  with  mayonnaise  dressing ;  then  put  bits  of 
sardine  on  the  bread  and  put  more  dressing  over  the  fish ; 
then  put  another  piece  of  bread  on  it.  Y.  N. 

Nut  Sandwiches — Mix  equal  parts  of  grated  cheese  and 
chopped  walnuts.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne..  Spread 
between  thin  buttered  slices  of  bread.  This  is  also  nice 
mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  A.  Fauth,  San  Anselmo. 

Walnut  and  Ham  Sandwiches — Half  a  cup  of  walnuts 
chopped  and  one  cup  of  minced  fried  ham  mixed ;  lay  on  a 
crisp  lettuce  leaf;  cover  with  mayonnaise  and  put  between 
thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter.  Mrs.  R.  L. 


CA  N  DI  ES 


Chocolate  Caramels — Three  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  cream,  one  cake  of  chocolate  and  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg.  Boil  until  thick;  pour  on  buttered  pans  to  cool; 
then  cut  into  squares.  Mrs.  G. 

Opera  Creams — Melt  together  slowly  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  sugar  and  two  squares  of  chocolate ; 
then  boil  for  three  or  four  minutes,  flavor  and  put  in  a  cold 
place.  The  pan  should  not  be  touched  for  an  hour,  or  until 
it  is  absolutely  cold.  Then  beat  until  it  becomes  resistant 
and  creamy.  Drop  into  round  balls  on  paper.  G.  H. 

Cocoa  Fudge — Half  a  cup  of  milk,  six  level  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cocoa,  three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  powdered  sugar  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla;  mix  all  ingredients  together,  but 
vanilla.  Cook,  stirring  constantly  until  it  begins  to  boil ; 
then  cook  slowly,  stirring  occasionally,  eight  or  ten  minutes, 
or  until  it  makes  a  firm  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
When  cooked  enough,  add  the  vanilla  and  heat  until  it  seems 
like  very  cold  molasses  in  winter ;  pour  into  a  buttered  pan ; 
when  firm  cut  in  squares. 

Cocoanut  Fudge — Two  cups  of  sugar  and  two-thirds  of 
a  cup  of  milk;  boil  four  minutes  from  the  time  it  starts  to 
boil.  Then  add  one  cup  of  cocoanut,  a  small  piece  of  butter 
and  vanilla  flavor.  Stir  once  and  pour  on  buttered  tin. 

E.  B. 

Fudge — Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  chocolate.  Boil  for  eleven  minutes. 
Then  add  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg  and  boil  four  minutes 
longer.  Take  from  stove,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla *and 
stir  hard  until  it  begins  to  harden ;  then  pour  into  buttered 
pans  and  when  almost  cold  cut  into  squares. 

Ice  Cream  Taffy — Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  enough  water  to  dissolve  the 
sugar.  Boil  eight  minutes ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream 


152  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

tartar  and  boil  seven  minutes.      Take  from  fire  and  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract  and  pull  until  white. 

Mrs.  G.  Faubel,  S.  F. 

Butter  Scotch — One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  butter ;  mix,  and  boil  until  done. 

Pihoche  No.  1 — Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  milk,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a 
cup  of  chopped  walnuts.  Boil  sugar,  milk,  walnuts  and 
Gutter  until  it  forms  a  ball  when  dropped  in  water.  Then 
take  from  fire  and  beat  until  it  becomes  creamy  and  a  light 
brown  color.  Then  spread  on  buttered  tins.  E.  B. 

Pinoche  No.  2 — Four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
milk,  one  teaspconful  of  vanilla,  two  cups  of  walnuts  cut 
in  small  pieces,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  all 
together  in  a  frying  pan  for  fifteen  minutes  (sugar  and  milk), 
then  add  butter,  vanilla  and  nuts  and  let  come  to  a  boil  for 
two  minutes ;  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  pour  on  buttered 
dishes.  When  cold  and  hard  cut  in  squares  with  a  sharp 
knife. 

Pinoche  No.  3 — Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup 
of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  teaspoonful 
.of  vanilla  and  a  ciip  of  chopped  walnuts;  cook  six  minutes, 
then  take  off  the  fire  and  add  the  walnuts  and  stir  it  until  it 
starts  to  thicken ;  then  shake  the  pan  while  you  pour  it  in. 
The  pan  must  be  greased  well.  Mrs.  B.  Leach. 

Sea  Foam  Candy — Put  three  cups  of  light  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  of  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  into  a 
saucepan.  Heat  gradually  to  boiling,  stirring  only  until 
sugar  is  dissolved;  then  boil  without  stirring  until  it  forms 
a  hard  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Remove  at  once  from 
fire  ,and  when  syrup  stops  bubbling  pour  gradually  into 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  beating  constantly.  Con- 
tinue beating  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  up;  then 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  one  cupful  of  English 
walnuts,  hickory  nuts  or  pecan  nuts,  cut  into  pieces.  Turn 
into  a  well  buttered  square  loaf  cake  pan  and  cut  into  slices- 
half  an  inch  thick. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  153" 

Taffy  Candy — Six  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of 
water,  one  cup  of  vinegar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  buttery 
put  in  just  before  candy  is  taken  from  fire ;  boil  all  (except 
butter)  about  half  an  hour  or  till  it  crisps  in  cold  water; 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  peppermint  and  pull  white,  using  only 
the  tips  of  your  fingers. 

Walnut  Candy — The  meats  of  hickory  nuts,  English 
walnuts,  or  black  walnuts  may  be  used,  according  to  prefer- 
ence in  that  regard.  After  removal  from  the  shells  in  as 
large  pieces  as  practicable,  they  are  to  be  placed  on  the  bot- 
tom of  tins,  previously  greased,  to  the  depth  of  about  half 
an  inch.  Next,  boil  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  pint 
of  water  and  one  gill  of  good  molasses  until  a  portion  of  the 
mass  hardens  wrhen  cooled.  Pour  the  hot  candy  on  the 
meats  and  allow  it  to  remain  until  hard. 


154  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


FOR  THE  SICK 


Arrowroot  Water — Moisten  one  teaspoonful  of  arrow- 
root with  cold  water;  smooth,  into  a  paste;  add  one  pint  of 
boiling  water  and  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  continuously. 

Barley  Water — Wash  in  cold  water  two  ounces  of  pearl 
barley.  Boil  five  minutes,  then  drain.  Pour  on  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water  and  boil  down  to  a  quart.  Flavor  with 
thinly  cut  lemon  rind;  add  sugar  to  taste;  strain  only  at 
patient's  request. 

Beef  Juice — Cut  thin  juicy  meat  into  pieces  one  and  one- 
half  inches  square ;  boil  one  and  one  half  minutes  over  a  hot 
fire.  Squeeze  with  a  hot  lemon  squeezer;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  May  be  added  to  milk  or  poured  over  toast. 

Beef  Extract — Heat  a  select  piece  of  round  steak  so  that 
the  juice  may  be  freely  pressed.  Cut  steak  into  pieces  that 
will  fit  into  a  lemon  squeezer  and  squeeze  into  a  cup.  Set 
cup  into  a  dish  of  hot  water  which  must  not  be  allowed  to 
boil.  Season  to  taste.  May  be  served  on  toast. 

Beef  Tea — Free  a  pound  of  lean  beef  from  fat,  skin,  etc. 
Chop  up  fine.  Put  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  to  digest  two 
hours.  Simmer  for  three  hours,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Make 
up  the  water  lost  by  adding  cold  water.  Press  and  strain. 
The  best  meats  for  beef  tea  are  the  round  and  rump.  Cold 
water  draws  out  the  albumen;  boiling  water  coagulates  it. 

Scraped  Beef  Sandwich — From  a  piece  of  steak  scrape 
all  the  fibre  from  the  connective  tissue  with  a  knife.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  between  slices  of  buttered  toast. 

Clam  Broth — Take  several  large  clams;  scrub  them 
clean  and  boil  in  a  cup  of  water.  The  broth  is  simply  the 
juice  of  the  clams  with  the  water,  boiled  for  a  minute  or  two. 
As  soon  as  the  shells  open  the  broth  is  done.  . 

Cold  and  Hoarseness— For  a  cold :  Bake  a  lemon  until 
thoroughly  tender,  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar  and  eat  hot  just 
before  retiring. 


156  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Hoarseness :  The  juice  of  a  lemon  mixed  with  stiffly 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  loaf  sugar  or  honey  to  sweeten. 

Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Cornmeal  Gruel — Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornmeal, 
a  tablespoonfnl  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar  into  a  thin  paste  with  a  little  cold  water.  Add 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  three  hours  Add  a  cup 
of  milk  and  serve. 

Cracker  Gruel — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  crumbs 
rolled  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  and  a  cup  of  boiling  milk.  Mix  salt, 
sugar  and  crumbs ;  add  boiling  water,  then  milk ;  simmer  two 
minutes. 

Baked  Custard — One  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Heat  in  a  double  boiler ; 
break  into  it  a  stick  of  cinnamon.  Beat  together  egg,  sugar 
and  salt;  then  pour  the  hot  milk  over  the  mixture,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Pour  into  a  bowl;  set  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water.  Bake  until  set. 

Cough  Cure — Four  lemons  sliced,  half  a  cup  of  flaxseed, 
half  a  cup  of  honey,  half  a  package  of  horehound  (herb), 
ten  cents  worth  of  rock  candy,  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  two  quarts  of  water.  Boil  two  and  one-half 
hours ;  strain ;  when  cold,  add  one  pint  of  gin  and  bottle. 
Dose — wineglassful  three  or  four  times  a  day.  Mrs.  N.  J.  H. 

Hot  Egg  Nogg— Yolk  of  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  of  hot  milk,  nutmeg,  brandy 
or  wine.  Beat  egg,  add  sugar ;  pour  hot  milk  over  them  and 
flavor  as  desjred.  If  wine  or  brandy  is  desired  use  two 
tablespoonfuls.  Mrs.  P.  Lemon. 

Eggs  in  Basket — C4rease  baking  shell  or  individual  plate. 
Beat  white  of  egg  till  stiff  and  dry.  Pile  white  of  egg  in 
rocky  mass  in  dish,  leaving  hole  in  center.  Slip  in  yolk 
unbroken  and  bake  till  points  of  whites  are  slightly  browned. 

Mrs.  P.  Lemon,  San  Anselmo. 

Egg  Lemon — One  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
lemon  and  cracked  ice.  Beat  egg  separately  until  very 
light;  add  sugar  to  yolk  and  beat  again.  Place  a  large 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  157 

spoonful  of  cracked  ice  in  a  glass :  squeeze  the  juice  of  lemon 
over  ice :  then  add  the  yolk  of  egg  and  sugar ;  stir  well ;  then 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  P.  Lemon. 

White  of  Egg  Lemonade — For  this  drink  use :  Two  lem- 
-ons.  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  loaf  sugar 
to  taste.  The  lemons  must  be  peeled  twice,  the  yellow  rind 
alone  being  used;  the  white  layer  is  rejected.  Place  the 
sliced  lemon  and  the  yellow  peel  in  a  quart  jug  with  two 
lumps  of  sugar;  pour  on  them  the  boiling  water  and  stir 
occasionally.  When  cooled  to  about  the  ordinary  tempera- 
ture of  tea,  strain  off  the  lemons.  Now  insert  an  egg  whisk 
and  when  the  lemonade  is  in  full  agitation  add  slowly  the 
white  of -the  egg  and  continue  whisking;  while  hot  strain 
through  muslin  and  serve  cold. 

Cream  Lemonade — Fill  bottom  of  glass  with  cracked  ice. 
Beat  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar  to  taste. 
To  this  add  juice  of  one  lemon,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  then 
add  one-half  cup  of  cream.  This  will  make  two  glassfuls. 

Flaxseed  Lemonade  No.  1 — A  tablespoonful  of  flaxseed, 
and  a  pint  of  water.  Boil  one  hour;  then  add  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Strain  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Flaxseed  Lemonade  No.  2 — Pour  a  quart  of  boiling 
water  over  a  cupful  of  flaxseed  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons ; 
add  loaf  sugar  to  taste.  Let  this  steep,  covered,  for  several 
hours ;  then  strain,  reheat  and  drink  hot  immediately  before 
-retiring.  Mrs.  X.  J.  H. 

Baked  Flour  Porridge — Pound  of  flour,  packed  lightly 
in  a  muslin  cloth;  place  in  boiling  water;  boil  from  six  to 
eight  hours.  .Cut  off  the  outer  portion  and  grate  the  hard 
one.  Blend  with  a  little  milk;  stir  into  boiling  milk  to  de- 
sired thickness. 

Gum  Arabic  Water — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  gum  arabic 
in  one  pint  of  boiling  water ;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar, 
a  wineglassful  of  sherry  or  juice  of  one  lemon.  Good  for 
poison  cases.  ' 


158  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Junket — Heat  half  a  pint  of  fresh  milk.  Add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  essence  of  pepsin ;  stir  enough  to  mix.  Pour 
into  custard  cups  and  let  stand  until  firm.  Serve  plain  or 
powder  with  sugar  or  nutmeg. 

Koumiss — One  tablespoonful  of  sugar  in  a  quart  of  fresh 
milk.  Dissolve  one-fifth  of  a  cake  of  yeast  in  a  little  cold 
water;  then  stir  it  into  the  milk.  Put  the  mixture  into 
strong  patent  stopped  bottles.  Shake  the  bottles  for  one 
minute,  then  stand  them  on  end  in  a  refrigerator  or  other 
cool  place.  After  three  days  place  the  bottles  on  their 
sides,  and  turn  them  occasionally.  Five  days  will  be  re- 
quired to  perfect  the  fermentation. 

To  Peptonize  Milk — Pepsin  grs.  xx;  Cold  water  zu; 
milk  oj.  Directions — Place  the  contents  of  one  of  the  vials 
into  a  well  cleaned  quart  bottle.  Pour  upon  it  a  gill  of  cool 
water  and  shake  the  mixture  thoroughly.  Then  add  to 
the  mixture  a  pint  of  fresh  milk  and  place  the  bottles  in  a 
vessel  containing  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  by  the  hand 
without  discomfort.  Let  it  stand,  with  occasional  shaking, 
from  ten  to  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  has  acquired  a  slight- 
ly bitter  taste,  when  it  should  be  removed  from  the  hot 
water  and  placed  upon  ice  or  in  a  cool  place,  to  check  di- 
gestion and  keep  from  spoiling.  If  not  quickly  cooled  the 
digestion  will  continue  and  the  milk  becomes  too  bitter  to 
be  palatable.  Milk  thus  peptonized  may  be  sweetened  if  the 
patient  desires  it.  It  may  also  be  flavored  with  wine  or 
rum  as  desirable. 

Cold  Process — This  consists  in  adding  to  the  milk  the 
peptonizing  powder  as  above,  using  cool  water  and  milk,  and 
then  placing  the  mixture  upon  the  ice  without  warming  it 
at  all. 

N.  B.— If  it  be  found  that  the  milk  ferments  after  fol- 
lowing the  above  directions,  boil  the  milk  first,  let  cool  and 
then  peptonize.  The  bacteria  in  uncooked  milk  cause  fer- 
mentation when  pepsin  is  added. 

Lime  Water — Into  two  quarts  of  water  place  a  lump  of 
unslaked  lime  the  size  of  an  egg.  After  standing  awhile,, 
stir  thoroughly  and  pour  off  the  solution;  add  fresh  water- 
and  keep  covered. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  159 

Milk  and  Lime  Water — Milk  and  lime  water  are  now 
frequently  prescribed  by  physicians  in  cases  of  dispepsia  and 
weakness  of  the  stomach,  and  in  some  cases  are  said  to  be 
beneficial.  Many  persons  who  think  good  bread  and  milk 
a  great  luxury,  frequently  hesitate  to  eat  it,  for  the  reason 
that  the  milk  will  not  digest  readily ;  sourness  of  the  stomach 
will  often  follow.  But  experience  shows  that  lime  water 
and  milk  are  not  only  food  and  medicine  at  an  early  period 
of  life,  but  also  at  a  later,  when,  as  in  the  case  of  infants, 
the  functions  of  digestion  and  assimilation  are  feeble  and 
easily  perverted.  A  stomach  taxed  by  gluttony,  irritated 
by  improper  food,  inflamed  by  alcohol,  enfeebled  by  disease, 
or  otherwise  unfitted  for  its  duties — as  is  shown  by  the  vari- 
ous symptoms  attendant  upon  indigestion,  dyspepsia, 
diarrhoea,  dysentery,  and  fever — will  resume  its  work,  and 
do  it  energetically,  on  an  exclusive  diet  of  bread  and  milk 
and  lime  water.  A  goblet  of  milk  may  have  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  lime  water  added  to  it  with  good  effect.  The  way  to 
make  lime  water  is  simply  to  procure  a  few  lumps  of  un- 
slaked lime,  put  the  lime  in  a  stone  jar,  and  add  water  until 
the  lime  is  slaked  and  of  about  the  consistence  of  thin  cream ; 
the  lime  settles,  leaving  the  pure  and  clean  lime  water  on  top. 

Milk  Lemonade — A  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  juice  of  one 
lemon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry,  half  a  cup  of  milk  and 
half  a  cup  of  water. 

Milk  Punch — Cup  of  milk  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
brandy.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Grated  nutmeg  may  be  added. 

Lemon  Whey — One  cup  of  boiling  milk,  one  pound  of 
sugar  and  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  lemon  juice.  Sweeten 
milk;  pour  lemon  juice  into  hot  milk  and  let  stand  until 
curds  separate  from  whey.  Strain.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Mrs.  P.  Lemon.. 

Imperial  Lemonade — One  lemon,  three  pounds  of  sugarr 
one  cup  of  water  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Boil  sugar,  water  and  thin  slices  of  lemon  rind  together  five 
minutes ;  when  cold  add  lemon  juice  and  last  of  all  the  cream 
of  tartar,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water. 
Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  P.  Lemon. 


160  "  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Oyster  Broth — Chop  a  dozen  oysters  fine,  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Bring  to  a  boiling  point, 
simmer  five  minutes,  then  strain  and  season.  By  adding 
milk  three  minutes  before  the  broth  is  taken  from  the  fire 
it  is  made  more  palatable. 

Scalloped  Oysters — Clean  oysters,  roll  crackers  and  mix 
with  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  dish  with  crumbs,  then  place 
a  layer  of  oysters  and  a  layer  of  crumbs,  another  layer  of 
oysters,  and  so  on  until  all  are  used.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Oatmeal  Water — A  teaspoonful  of  oatmeal  to  a  quart 
of  water.  Boil  down  to  a  pint  and  strain. 

Oatmeal  Gruel — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  rolled  oats,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  boil- 
ing milk.  Mix  oatmeal,  sugar  and  salt ;  add  boiling  water ; 
cook  in  a  saucepan  thirty  minutes  or  in  a  double  boiler  for 
two  hours.  Strain  and  add  hot  milk.  Bring  to  a  boil  and 
serve  hot. 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell — Wash  the  shells  and  put  them 
on  hot  coals  or  upon  the  top  of  hot  stove,  or  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  Open  shells,  taking  care  not  to  lose  any  of  the  liquor. 
Serve  at  once  on  hot  plates  with  toast. 

To  Boil  Clams — Wash  shells  clean,  and  put  the  clams 
{the  edges  downward)  in  a  kettle;  pour  about  a  quart  of 
"boiling  water  over  them.  Cover  the  pot,  and  set  it  over  a 
brisk  fire  for  forty-five  minutes.  The  boiling  water  will 
open  the  shells  quickly  and  let  out  the  sand.  When  done 
remove  the  black  skin  which  covers  the  hard  part,  trim 
<clean,  and  put  into  a  stewpan.  Add  some  of  the  liquor  in 
which  they  were  boiled,  and  a  large  piece  of  butter;  pepper 
-and  salt  to  taste ;  serve  hot. 

Panada — Two  Boston  soda  or  graham  crackers,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  creckers  in  bowl 
with  sugar  and  salt  between  them.  Pour  over  just  enough 
boiling  water  to  soak  well.  Put  bowl  into  vessel  of  boiling 
water  and  let  stand  fifteen  or  twenty  mintues ;  lift  crackers 
out  clear  but  not  broken.  Serve  with  cream.  This  is  very 
good  for  babies  of  eight  months  or  so.  Mrs.  P.  Lemon. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  161 

For  Sick  Stomach — The  following  drink  for  relieving 
sickness  of  the  stomach  is  said  to  be  very  palatable  and 
agreeable :  Beat  up  one  egg  very  well,  say  for  twenty  min- 
utes, then  add  fresh  milk  one  pint,  water  one  pint,  sugar  to 
make  it  palatable;  boil,  and  get  it  cool;  drink  when  cold. 
If  it  becomes  curds  and  whey  it  is  useless.  . 

Toast  for  an  Invalid — When  food  for  an  invalid  is  to 
be  served  on  toast,  fix  it  this  way :  After  removing  the  crust, 
cut  the  toast  lengthwise  into  half -inch  strips  and  then  cut 
crosswise,  so  as  to  form  small  squares.  Push  these  squares 
gently  together  so  that  the  slice  appears  whole  once  more, 
and  then  place  on  it  a  poached  egg  or  creamed  chicken.  A 
convalescent,  too  weak  to  use  both  hands  at  once,  needs  only 
the  aid  of  a  fork  to  enable  him  to  eat  such  a  meal  in  perfect 
comfort.  Mrs.  R.  Leach. 

Stuffed  Baked  Potato — Select  a  smooth  potato;  scrub 
well,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  fifty  minutes.  Cut  one 
end  partly  off  lengthwise ;  scrape  out  the  potato  into  a  dish ; 
add  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  refill  the  skin,  place  a  bit  of 
butter  in  the  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Poached  Egg — Pour  hot  water  (or  milk)  in  a  saucepanj 
using  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  to  each  cup  of  water.  Bring  to 
boiling  point.  Break  egg  into  a  saucer  and  slip  into  the 
pan.  Withdraw  the  pan  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  stove  and 
cook  until  white  of  egg  is  set. 

Rice  Water — Wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cleaned  rice; 
put  in  a  granite  saucepan  with  a  quart  of  boiling  water; 
simmer  until  the  rice  is  softened  and  partially  dissolved; 
strain,  add  salt;  may  be  served  either  hot  or  cold. 

Toast  Water— Put  into  a  pitcher  three  slices  of  dark- 
brown  toast;  pour  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  cover 
-closely.  When  cold  strain ;  wine  and  sugar  may  be  added. 

Rice — Take  desired  quantity  of  rice  and  wash  three  times 
in  cold  water,  rubbing  the  rice  carefully  between  the  hands ; 
then  drain.  Boil  fresh  water  slowly.  Put  in  the  rice  and 
cover  the  vessel  closely.  Cook  over  a  slow  fire  about  twelve 
minutes,  when  grain  should  be  perfect  and  separated.  Drain 
In  a  colander.  When  dry  put  rice  in  oven  to  heat. 


162  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

Wine  Whey — Put  two  pints  of  milk  into  a  saucepan  and 
place  on  the  fire.  When  about  to  boil  add  two  wineglasses 
of  sherry.  Simmer  fifteen  minutes,  skimming  off  the  curds 
as  they  rise.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  sherry.  Skim  again  and 
strain  through  clean  linen;  if  preferred  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  lemon  juice  may  be  added  instead  of  wine. 

Whey — To  half  a  pint  of  warm  milk  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  essence  of  pepsin,  liquid  pepsin  or  liquid  rennet.  After 
the  mixture  forms  beat  it  with  a  fork  and  strain  off  the  whey. 

Water  Wafers — Quart  of  sifted  flour,  half  a  pint  of  cold 
water,  teaspoonful  of  salt;  mix  thoroughly.  Eoll  out  thin 
and  cut  into  small  cakes  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Put  in  a  pan 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Wine  Jelly — One-fourth  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  one-fourth 
of  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  cold  water, 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  square  inch  of  cinnamon,  a  few 
cloves  and  half  a  cup  of  sherry.  Put  gelatine  and  cold  water 
into  a  dish  for  half  an  hour;  then  add  boiling  water  with 
cloves  and  cinnamon;  lastly  sugar  and  wine.  Stir  until 
sugar  and  gelatine  are  dissolved.  Strain,  and  pour  into  a, 
mold.  Set  on  ice. 

To  bone  a  bird — Select  and  dress  a  plump  squab,  cut 
off  head  and  feet  and  wings  at  first  joint ;  singe,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  make  an  incision  down  the  back  and  wings. 
Scrape  away  the  bones  without  tearing  the  meat.  Put  into* 
shape  and  broil  between  buttered  paper.  . 


-•»  For  The  Nursery  •&<•- 


Albumen  Water — Break  the  white  of  an  egg  into  a  bowl. 
Beat  until  it  commences  to  froth,  then  add  gradually  a  cup- 
ful of  water,  beating  continually.  Set  away  in  a  cool  place. 
This  is  very  nourishing  and  will  stay  on  the  weakest  stomach 
when  all  other  things  fail.  It  is  almost  tasteless,  but  may 
be  made  more  palatable  by  adding  the  juice  of  one  orange. 

Mrs.  Everman. 

Barley  Water — (To  substitute  for  milk  in  case  of  vom- 
iting, etc.) — Two  teaspoonfuls  of  pearl  barley  to  one  pint  of 
cold  water.  Let  simmer  about  an  hour.  Pour  off  and 
strain.  Mrs.  Everman. 

Whey  for  Babies — Add  sodium  bicarbonate  gr.  x  to  half 
a  pint  of  whey  to  render  it  alkaline;  and  sugar  of  milk  zi. 
to  raise  the  sugar  to  six  per  cent. 

Custard — Put  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  milk  into 
a  double  boiler  top,  and  have  the  water  boiling  underneath. 
Separate  the  white  and  yolk  of  one  egg.  Beat  the  white 
up.  adding  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt.  Add  a  scant  tablespoonful 
of  sugar  to  the  yolk  and  beat  it  well.  As  soon  as  the  milk 
is  scalded,  pour  a  small  quantity  into  the  beaten  yolk  and 
stir  well.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  a  little  at  a  time, 
and  beat  all  well.  Then  stir  the  beaten  white  in  and  pour 
into  the  double  boiler  top,  and  set  in  the  boiling  water  again. 
Stir  constantly  until  it  thickens  a  little  and  pour  off  imme- 
diately. This  is  a  very  safe  recipe  and  makes  about  two 
small  cupfuls.  Mrs.  Everman. 

Beef  juice — Partly  broil  a  piece  of  juicy  steak  about  the 
size  of  a  small  dinner  plate.  Cut  into  small  pieces  and  press 
the  juice  from  them  in  a  meat  press.  Pour  into  a  granite 
cup  and  set  in  hot  water  to  warm.  Do  not  allow  it  to  be- 
come more  than  hike-warm,  as  too  much  heat  will  cause  a 
curd  to  form.  Break  a  little  bread  into  this  (whole  wheat 
bread  is  always  preferable)  and  add  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt. 
This  is  much  quicker  to  prepare  than  beef  tea  and  has  the- 
same  value.  Mrs.  Everman. 


164  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

For  Measles — Keep  patient  in  a  room  of  even  tempera- 
ture, not  too  dark,  and  give  warm  drinks,  until  rash  disap- 
pears. Mrs.  W.  J.  Kennedy,  Larkspur. 


Miscella  n  eous 


Colic  in  Infants — Infants  are  very  subject  to  colic  from 
overfeeding,  too  early  feeding,  constipation  and  many  other 
causes.  They  often  suffer  terribly  from  these  pains,  tossing 
about,  drawing  up  their  legs,  and  screaming  vehemently. 
Treatment — When  it  arises  from  eostiveness,  a  teaspoonful 
or  tablespoonful  of  castor  oil  will  often  remove  the  defect, 
and  at  or  about  the  same  time  give  three  drops  of  essence 
of  peppermint  or  spearmint,  in  a  little  sweetened  water.  A 
very  little  salaratus  often  gives  relief,  and  paregoric  in  two 
to  five-drop  doses  every  hour,  will  give  relief.  Hot  flannels 
applied  over  the  bowels  and  stomach  are  useful,  and  often 
the  infant  can  be  greatly  relieved  by  laying  it  upon  the  belly 
on  the  knee,  trotting  it  and  gently  tapping  its  back;  this 
must  be  done  cautiously,  for  if  unsuccessful  it  might  increase 
the  pains. 

Pare  a  fresh  lemon  very  carefully,  without  breaking  the 
thin,  white,  inside  skin,  put  it  inside  a  wild  duck  and  keep  it 
there  for  forty-eight  hours,  and  all  the  fishy  taste,  so  disa- 
greeable in  wild  fowls,  will  be  removed.  The  lemon  should 
be  removed,  and  a  fresh  one  put  in  its  place  as  often  as  every 
twelve  hours.  A  lemon  thus  prepared  will  absorb  unpleas- 
ant flavors  from  almost  all  meat  or  game. 

To  flavor  a  roast  of  beef  deliciously,  to  make  it  tender, 
and  to  give  variety  which  is  essential  in  that  family  where 
beef  is  the  staple  meat  eaten — to  do  all  this,  nothing  more 
is  required  than  a  large  lemon ;  cut  it  in  two  pieces,  squeeze 
all  the  juice  upon  the  roast,  then,  after  peeling  the  lemon, 
roll  it  up  in  the  roast..  When  the  lemon  is  used,  no  water 
is  needed.  The  roast  should  be  a  fat  one,  to  insure  good 
gravy,  and  the  lemon  acid  will  remove  the  oily  taste  some- 
times objected  to. 

To  many  housewives  the  curtains  are  a  source  of  con- 
tinual worry.  The  best  way  to  wash  them  is  as  follows: 
Wash  thoroughly  in  hot  suds  and  wring  out  the  water  with 
the  hands.  Kinse  in  blue  water  and  squeeze  again  (always 
use  the  hands).  Next  wring  through  some  starch.  Shake 
out  well  and  stretch.  Pin  quite  flat  on  a  clean  sheet  and 


166  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 

\ 


leave  to  dry  on  the  floor  of  a  seldom-used  room.  Leave  till 
nearly  dry,  and  iron  with  hot  iron,  then  they  are  ready  for 
use.  If  they  are  hung  up  rather  damp  they  dry  in  nice 
straight  folds. 

If  you  wish  to  shut  off  any  view  through  a  window  you 
can  do  it  very  cheaply  in  the  following  manner:  Dissolve 
in  a  little  hot  water  as  much  Epsom  salts  as  the  water  will 
absorb.  Paint  this  over  the  inside  of  the  window.  When 
dry  you  will  have  a  fair  imitation  of  ground  glass. 

Young  housekeepers  are  sometimes  unacquainted  with 
the  difference  between  a  tea-cloth  and  a  duster.  Tea-cloths 
should  be  of  linen,  and  about  a  yard  long,  and  of  a  darker 
and  coarser  texture  than  glass-cloths,  which  should  be  fine, 
white  and  free  from  that  downy  substance  which  is  in  some 
kinds  of  material,  and  which  would  stick  to  the  glass  and 
prevent  its  looking  bright  and  clean.  Dusters  should  be 
of  blue  checked  stuff  for  use  in  the  kitchen,  and  of  white 
linen  for  the  other  rooms  in  the  house. 

When  working  in  the  kitchen,  protect  your  dress  and 
apron  by  wearing  a  square  of  thin  oilcloth.  To  make  it 
quite  neat,  bind  it  with  braid,  and  attach  strings  to  the  up- 
per corners.  This  needs  only  to  be  washed  off  when  soiled, 
and  can  be  discarded  in  a  second  if  there  is  a  ring  at  the 
door-bell. 

Meat  will  keep  in  the  hot  weather  for  many  days  if  it 
is  hung  in  a  current  of  air  and  covered  with  a  muslin  which 
has  been  wrung  out  in  vinegar.  This  should  be  renewed 
every  day. 

If  you  wish  to  stick  anything  and  have  no  blue  in  the 
house,  try  the  following  recipe :  Take  a  small  piece  of  cold 
potato  which  has  been  boiled,  and  rub  it  up  and  down  on  a 
piece  of  paper  with  your  fingers  for  about  five  minutes.  It 
will  become  the  right  consistency,'  and  stick  as  well  as  the 
strongest  glue. 

To  Prevent  Spotting — A  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper 
will  prevent  gray  or  buff  linens  from  spotting,  if  stirred  into 
the  first  water  in  which  they  are  washed.  It  will  also  pre- 
vent the  colors  running,  when  washing  black  or  colored 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  167 

cambrics  or  muslins,  and  the  water  is  not  injured  by  it,  but 
just  as  soft  as  before  the  pepper  was  put  in. 

Never  boil  nice  white  goods.  They  should  be  only 
scalded.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

To  iron  embroidery  nicely,  press  it  on  the  wrong  side, 
between  two  flannels.  Mrs.  P.  A.  M. 

In  removing  grease  spots  by  benzine,  the  stained  outline 
which  is  left  can  be  prevented  by  the  application  of  gypsum, 
extending  a  little  beyond  the  moistened  region.  When  dry, 
shake  the  powder  off,  and  no  trace  of  the  spot  will  remain. 

To  Remove  Bruises  From  Furniture — Wet  the  bruised 
spots  with  warm  water.  Soak  a  piece  of  brown  paper  of 
several  thicknesses  in  warm  water,  and  lay  over  the  place. 
Then  apply  a  warm  flat-iron  until  the  moisture  is  gone.  Re- 
peat the  process  if  needful,  and  the  bruises  will  disappear. 


168  RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


LIBRARY  USE 

RETURN  TO  DESK  FROM  WHICH  BORROWED 

AGRICULTURE    LIBRARY 
4O    GIANNINI    HALL 

EXT.  4493, 

THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  BEFORE  CLOSING  TIME 
ON  LAST  DATE  STAMPED  BELOW 


11 


LD  62-20m-9,'63 
(E709slO)9412 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


