SANDWICHES 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

THE  GASTRONOMY  COLLECTION  OF 
GEORGE  HOLL 

AGR1C. 

LIBRARY 


Sandwiches 


BY  MRS.  S.  T.  RORER 

Author  of  Mrs.  Rorer's  New  Cook  Book, 
Philadelphia  Cook  Book,  Bread  and  Bread- 
Making,  and  other  Valuable  Works  on 
Cookery. 


Revised  and  Enlarged  Edition 


PHILADELPHIA 

ARNOLD   AND   COMPANY 

420  SANSOM   STREET 


Copyright,  1894,  1912,  by  MRS.  S.  T.  RORER 
All  Rights  Reserved 


Printed  at  the  Sign  of  the  Ivy  Leaf 
in  Sansom  Street.  Philadelphia 
by  George  H  Buchanan  Company 


Kl 


AGRK 
LIBRARY 


CONTENTS 

SANDWICHES 7 

To   Keep    Sandwiches 9 

Bread , 9 

Yeast  10 

German  Potato  Bread n 

Nineteenth  Century  Bread 12 

White  Bread   12 

Nut  Bread   13 

Anchovy  Sandwiches   13 

Anchovy  and  Egg  Sandwiches 14 

Cold  Beef  Sandwiches  14 

Caviar  Sandwiches  No.  i 15 

Caviar  Sandwiches  No.  2 15 

Celery  Sandwiches 16 

Celery  Salad  Sandwiches , 16 

Rolled  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 17 

Rolled  Chicken  Sandwiches 17 

Sandwiches  a  la  Rorer 18 

Chicken  and  Almond  Sandwiches 19 

Chicken  and  Lettuce  a  la  Kendall 19 

Princess  Sandwiches 20 

Windsor  Sandwiches 20 

Tea  Biscuit  Sandwiches 21 

Cheese  Sandwiches  No.  i 23 

Cheese  Sandwiches  No.  2 23 

Cheese    Sandwiches    No.    3 24 

Workman's  Cheese  Sandwiches 24 

German  Sandwiches 25 


M363049 


MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES 

Honolulu  Sandwiches  25 

My  Favorite 26 

Creole  Sandwiches 26 

Curry  Sandwiches  27 

[Deviled  Cheese  Sandwiches 28 

Roquefort    Sandwiches    28 

Camembert  Sandwiches   28 

Cottage  Cheese  Sandwiches 29 

Salt-Cucumber  Sandwiches ' 29 

Cucumber  Sandwiches  30 

Curried  Oyster  Sandwiches 31 

Curried  Egg  Sandwiches 32 

Curried    Sardine    Sandwiches 32 

Curried    Chicken    Sandwiches 33 

Crab  Sandwiches  33 

Cream  of  Chicken  Sandwiches 34 

Deviled   Sandwiches    35 

Egg  Sandwiches  No.  i 35 

Egg  Sandwiches  No.  2 36 

Fish  Sandwiches    36 

Flaked  Fish  Sandwiches 36 

Spanish  Sandwiches 37 

Salmon   Sandwiches   37 

Swedish  Sandwiches  38 

French  Chicken  Sandwiches   39 

Game  Sandwiches 39 

German  Sandwiches   40 

Ham  Sandwiches  40 

Indian  Sandwiches 41 

Lettuce    Sandwiches    41 

Lobster  Sandwiches   42 


CONTENTS  5 

Lobster  Salad  Sandwiches 43 

Mutton   Sandwiches    43 

Mutton  Club  Sandwiches  44 

English  Mutton  Sandwiches 45 

Spring  Lamb  Sandwiches 45 

Turkish  Sandwiches  45 

Picnic  Sandwiches  46 

Potato  Sandwiches   47 

Salad  Sandwiches    47 

Fish  Salad  Sandwiches 48 

Sardine    Salad    Sandwiches 48 

Sardine  Sandwiches   49 

Swiss  Sandwiches   49 

Tongue  Sandwiches 50 

Sandwich    Dressing    51 

Farmer's  Sandwiches   51 

Farmer's  Egg  Sandwiches 52 

Deviled  Beef  Sandwiches 52 

Corned   Beef  Sandwiches 53 

Plain  Corned  Beef  Sandwiches 53 

Sandwiches  a  la  Stanley 54 

English  Salt-Beef  Sandwiches 54 

Sandwiches  a  la  Bernhardt  55 

East  Indian  Lentil  Sandwiches 55 

Nut-Butter  Sandwiches   56 

Filipino  Sandwiches  56 

SWEET  SANDWICHES 57 

Cherry    Sandwiches    57 

Fig  Sandwiches    58 

Fruit  and  Nut  Sandwiches 58 


o  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Orange  Marmalade  Sandwiches 59 

Sponge  Cake  Sandwiches 59 

Fresh  Fruit  Sandwiches 60 

Raisin  Sandwiches  60 

Afternoon  Teas 61 

Nut  and  Apple  Sandwiches 61 

Grape  Fruit  Sandwiches 62 

Ginger  Sandwiches   62 

CANAPES 63 

Anchovy  Canapes 63 

Caviar  Canapes 63 

Swedish   Canapes    64 

Chopped  Tongue  Canapes 64 

Sardine  Canapes 65 

Fish  Canapes  65 

Deviled  Oyster  Canapes 66 

Pate  de  Foi  Gras  Canapes 66 

Hot  Canapes 67 

Fish  Canapes 67 

Lobster  Canapes  69 

Sweetbread  Canapes  70 

Canapes  a  la  Trinidad 71 

Game   Canapes   72 

Lamb  Canapes 73 

Club-House  Sandwiches   74 

SCENTED   SANDWICHES    75 

Rose  Sandwiches  75 

Nasturtium  Sandwiches  76 

Violet  Sandwiches  76 


SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches  may  be  made  from  one  of 
three  or  four  kinds  of  bread;  whole  wheat 
bread,  Boston  brown  or  oatmeal  bread,  white 
bread  and  rye  bread  made  into  square,  deep 
loaves ;  in  fact,  all  bread  used  for  sandwiches 
should  be  made  especially  for  the  purpose, 
so  that  the  slices  may  be  in  good  form,  and 
sufficiently  large  to  cut  into  fancy  shapes. 

The  butter  may  be  used  plain,  slightly 
softened  or  it  may  be  seasoned  and  flavored 
with  just  a  suspicion  of  paprika,  a  little  white 
pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of  Worcestershire 
sauce. 

For  ordinary  sandwiches  use  the  bread 
without  toasting.  For  canapes,  toast  is  to 
be  preferred.  Sandwiches  are  principally 
used  for  buffet  lunches  or  evening  sociables, 
where  only  a  light,  substantial  lunch  is  re- 
quired. In  these  days  they  are  made  in 
great  varieties.  Almost  all  sorts  of  meat,  if 
properly  seasoned,  may  be  made  into  deli- 
cious sandwiches.  If  the  meat  is  slightly 


8  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

moistened  with  cream  or  olive  oil,  sand- 
wiches for  traveling,  provided  each  one  is 
carefully  wrapped  in  oiled  paper,  will  keep 
fresh  three  or  four  days.  The  small  French 
rolls  may  have  the  centres  scooped  out,  the 
spaces  filled  with  chicken  salad  or  chopped 
oysters,  and  served  as  sandwiches.  The 
rolls  may  be  made  especially  for  that  pur- 
pose, not  more  than  two  inches  long  and  one 
and  a  half  inches  wide;  with  coffee,  they 
make  an  attractive  meal  easily  served. 

Ordinary  sandwiches  may  be  made  either 
square,  triangular,  long,  narrow,  round  or 
crescent  shaped.  One  slice  of  bread  will 
usually  make  one  round  sandwich  and  one 
crescent,  provided  the  cutting  is  done  eco- 
nomically. Meat  used  for  sandwiches  should 
be  chopped  very  fine  and  slightly  moistened 
with  cream,  melted  butter,  olive  oil  or  may- 
onnaise dressing  well  seasoned.  Fish  should 
be  rubbed  or  pounded  in  a  mortar;  add 
enough  sauce  tartare  to  make  it  sufficiently 
moist  to  easily  spread. 

Turkey,  chicken,  game,  tongue,  beef  and 
mutton,  with  their  proper  seasonings,  moist- 
ened with  either  mayonnaise  or  French 
dressing,  make  exceedingly  nice  sandwiches. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  9 

To  Keep  Sandwiches 

It  is  frequently  necessary  to  make  sand- 
wiches several  hours  before  they  are  needed. 
As  they  dry  quickly  they  must  be  carefully 
wrapped  or  they  will  be  unpalatable.  Wring 
from  cold  water  two  ordinary  tea  towels; 
put  one  on  top  of  the  other.  An  old  table- 
cloth will  answer  the  purpose  very  well.  As 
fast  as  the  sandwiches  are  made  put  them 
on  top  of  the  damp  towel ;  when  you  have  the 
desired  quantity,  cover  the  top  with  moist 
lettuce  leaves ;  fold  over  the  towels,  and  put 
outside  of  this  a  perfectly  dry,  square  cloth. 
Sandwiches  will  keep  in  this  way  for  several 
hours,  and  in  perfectly  good  condition.  On 
a  very  warm  day  they  may  be  covered  all 
over  with  moist  lettuce  leaves ;  use  the  green 
ones  that  are  not  so  palatable  or  sightly  for 
garnishing. 

Bread 

To  make  good  sandwiches,  especially 
when  one  is  a  long  way  from  a  city,  it  is 
quite  necessary  to  know  how  to  make  sand- 
wich bread,  which  is  quite  different,  or 
should  be,  from  ordinary  bread.  Compressed 


io  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 


yeast  is  always  to  be  preferred,  but  if  one 
cannot  get  it,  the  next  best  is  good  home- 
made yeast.  Bread  for  sandwiches  must  be 
baked  in  rather  large  square  pans,  and  must 
be  just  a  little  lighter  and  softer  than  bread 
for  the  table.  The  following  recipes  will,  I 
am  sure,  help  the  "out  of  town"  housewife. 
Nut  bread  is  usually  made  into  simple  bread 
and  butter  sandwiches ;  the  nuts  in  the  bread 
are  quite  sufficient  filling. 

Yeast 

4  good  sized  potatoes 

1  quart  of  boiling  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
i  tablespoonful  of  salt 

Pare  and  grate  the  potatoes  into  the  hot 
water,  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  reaches  boil- 
ing point,  and  simmer  gently  for  five  min- 
utes. Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  sugar  and 
salt,  and  when  lukewarm  add  a  cupful  of 
yeast,  or  two  dry  yeast  cakes  that  have  been 
moistened  in  a  little  water,  or  one  cake  of 
compressed  yeast.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a 
jar  and  cover  with  a  saucer.  Stir  it  down 
as  fast  as  it  comes  to  the  top  of  the  jar. 
When  it  falls,  or  ceases  to  be  very  light, 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  n 

which  will  be  five  or  six  hours,  pour  it  into  a 
bottle,  put  the  cork  in  very  loosely  and  stand 
it  in  a  cold  place.  Use  one  cupful  of  this  to 
each  two  loaves  of  bread. 

German  Potato  Bread 

Boil  one  potato  until  tender;  mash  it 
through  a  sieve,  add  to  it  a  half  pint  of  warm 
water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  in 
one  cupful  of  flour  and  one  cupful  of  yeast ; 
let  this  stand  for  two  hours,  or  until  very 
light.  It  is  better  to  make  this  at  seven 
o'clock,  so  the  bread  may  be  sponged  at  nine 
or  ten.  Scald  a  pint  of  milk,  add  to  it  a  pint 
of  water,  beat  in  a  quart  and  a  pint  of  flour. 
The  batter  should  be  thick  enough  to  drop, 
rather  than  pour  from  the  spoon.  Then  stir 
in  the  potato  starter,  and  stand  in  a  place 
about  65°  Fahr.  over  night.  Next  morning 
knead  thoroughly,  adding  flour.  Put  this 
aside  until  very  light,  about  two  hours ,  then 
mold  into  loaves,  put  it  into  square  greased 
pans,  and  when  light  bake  in  a  moderately 
quick  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

This  recipe  will  make  two  box  loaves  and 
a  dozen  rolls. 


12  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Nineteenth  Century  Bread 

Scald  a  pint  of  milk,  add  a  pint  of  water, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  lukewarm, 
one  compressed  yeast  cake  moistened  in  a 
little  warm  water.  Add  sufficient  whole 
wheat  flour  to  make  a  batter,  beat  thor- 
oughly, cover  and  stand  aside  two  and  a  half 
hours;  then  stir,  adding  more  whole  wheat 
flour  until  you  have  a  dough.  Knead  quickly, 
separate  into  loaves,  put  each  in  a  square 
greased  pan,  cover  and  stand  in  a  warm  place 
about  one  hour,  until  very  light.  Slash  the 
top  with  a  sharp  knife,  brush  with  water  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an 
hour. 

White  Bread 

Add  a  pint  of  water  to  a  pint  of  scalded 
milk;  when  lukewarm  add  one  compressed 
yeast  cake,  moistened,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Add  sufficient  flour  gradually,  beating 
all  the  while,  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  this 
dough  until  it  is  soft  and  elastic,  and  free 
from  stickiness.  Put  it  into  a  greased  bowl, 
stand  it  in  a  warm  place  three  hours.  Sepa- 
rate it  into  loaves,  knead  five  minutes,  put 


MRS.    RORERS    SANDWICHES  13 

the  loaves  in  square  greased  pans  and  stand 
aside  until  very  light.  Slash  the  top  with  a 
sharp  knife,  brush  with  water,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
This  should  make  two  loaves,  or  a  dozen 
bread  sticks  and  a  dozen  rolls. 

Nut  Bread 

I  quart  of  flour 

4  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt 
i  cupful  of  chopped  nuts 
i^  cupfuls  of  milk 

Add  the  baking  powder  and  salt  to  the 
flour  and  sift  them.  Add  the  nuts,  mix  thor- 
oughly and  gradually  add  the  milk.  Knead 
this  into  a  loaf,  put  it  into  a  square  pan, 
brush  the  top  with  melted  butter,  let  it  stand 
twenty  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Anchovy  Sandwiches 

Beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a 
cream,  adding  gradually  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  lemon  juice,  a  saltspoonful  of  paprika,  two 


14  MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES 

tablespoonf uls  of  anchovy  paste.  Spread  this 
on  thin  slices  of  bread,  put  two  together, 
trim  off  the  crusts,  and  cut  into  triangles. 

Anchovy  and  Egg  Sandwiches 

Mash  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  or 
olive  oil,  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
Hash  of  paprika  and  a  tablespoonful  of  an- 
chovy paste  or  two  mashed  anchovies. 
Spread  this  between  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread,  press  the  slices  together,  trim  off  the 
crusts  and  cut  into  triangles. 

Sardines  may  be  used  in  the  place  of  an- 
chovies, 

Cold  Beef  Sandwiches 

Take  the  remains  of  cold  roasted  beef, 
and  chop  very  fine ;  put  it  into  a  bowl ;  to  each 
half  pint  of  meat,  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter;  work  this  to- 
gether. Cut  the  crust  from  the  ends  of  a 
loaf  of  whole  wheat  bread;  butter  lightly 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  15 

and  slice ;  so  continue  until  you  have  the  de- 
sired number  of  slices ;  spread  the  slices  with 
a  layer  of  the  seasoned  meat;  put  two  slices 
together,  and  cut  into  desired  shapes. 

Caviar  Sandwiches  No.  I 

Beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a 
cream ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  onion  juice, 
the  same  of  lemon,  a  saltspoonful  of  paprika, 
and  gradually  four  tablespoonfuls  of  caviar. 
Spread  this  on  thin  slices  of  brown  bread  or 
pumpernickel,  put  two  together,  press  lightly 
and  cut  into  long,  narrow  shapes. 

Caviar  Sandwiches  No.  2 

Cut  slices  of  bread  in  crescent-shaped 
pieces,  butter  one  side  and  toast.  Have 
ready  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  remove  yolks, 
put  them  through  sieve,  chop  whites  very 
fine,  and  spread  toast  with  layer  of  caviar; 
then  sprinkle  over  first  a  little  of  whites,  then 
a  little  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Put  over  in 
the  form  of  a  ring  a  piece  of  onion,  the  onion 
having  first  been  cut  into  thin  slices,  and 
then  separated. 


16  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Celery  Sandwiches 

Cut  slices  of  bread,  butter  one  side  and 
toast.  Cut  the  white  part  of  celery  into  thin 
slices,  cover  it  over  the  bread,  then  cover  this 
with  a  layer  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  cover 
with  another  piece  of  toast,  cut  into  squares 
and  serve.  All  sandwiches  of  this  kind  must 
be  used  as  soon  as  made. 

Celery  Salad  Sandwiches 

Put  four  eggs  into  warm  water ;  bring  to 
the  boiling  point,  and  keep  there,  without 
boiling,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  the  white 
portion  from  one  head  of  celery;  wash  and 
chop  it  very  fine.  Remove  the  shells  from 
the  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  either  chop  them 
very  fine  or  put  through  a  vegetable  press, 
and  mix  with  them  the  celery ;  add  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  But- 
ter the  bread  before  you  cut  it  from  the  loaf. 
After  you  have  a  sufficient  quantity  cut,  put 
over  each  slice  a  layer  of  the  mixed  egg  and 
celery;  put  right  in  the  center  of  this  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  sort  of 
smooth  it  all  over.  Put  two  pieces  together 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  17 

and  press  them  lightly.  Trim  off  the  crusts, 
and  cut  the  sandwiches  into  pieces  about  two 
inches  wide  and  the  length  of  the  slices. 


Rolled  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Remove  the 
crusts  from  the  loaf,  butter  each  slice  before 
you  cut  it  off,  and  roll  at  once.  These  may 
be  tied  with  narrow  baby  ribbon  or  wrapped 
at  once  in  waxed  paper,  fringing  and  twist- 
ing the  ends. 

Rolled  Chicken  Sandwiches 

Trim  the  crusts  from  the  entire  loaf,  but- 
ter each  slice  and  cut  it  off  as  thin  as  possi- 
ble; spread  it  quickly  with  the  mixture,  roll 
and  wrap  it  at  once  in  waxed  paper.  If  the 
bread  is  home-made  and  cracks  in  the  roll- 
ing, put  a  colander  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  throw  in  it  a  few  slices  at  a  time,  as 
soon  as  they  have  softened  spread  them  with 
soft  butter,  then  cover  with  the  mixture,  roll 
and  wrap  in  waxed  paper. 

To  make  the  mixture,  chop  sufficient  cold 
boiled  chicken  to  make  a  pint.  Rub  together 


1 8  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two 
of  flour,  add  slowly  a  half  cupful  of  hot  milk, 
stir  over  the  fire  for  a  minute,  then  add  the 
chicken,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  celery  seed,  a  saltspoonful  of 
white  pepper,  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice  and  a  grating  of  nut- 
meg; mix  and  cool.  This  will  make  four 
dozen  rolled  sandwiches. 

Sandwiches  a  la  Rorer 

Chop  sufficient  white  meat  of  cooked 
chicken  to  make  a  half  pint.  Select  two  fine 
bunches  of  cress,  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
shave  it  very  fine.  Wash  and  dry  the  crisp 
portion  from  a  head  of  lettuce.  Put  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  into  a  saucepan,  add  the 
juice  from  two  lemons  and  stir  over  hot 
water  until  the  mixture  is  thick;  take  from 
the  fire  and  add  slowly  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
olive  oil;  add  this  to  the  chicken  and  season 
with  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of 
pepper.  Butter  a  slice  of  white  bread,  put 
over  a  rather  thick  layer  of  the  chicken  mix- 
ture, then  a  slice  of  brown  bread,  buttered 
on  both  sides;  cover  this  with  a  thick  laver 


MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES  IQ 

of  cress,  dust  it  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  another  slice  of  white  bread,  buttered; 
press  these  firmly  together,  trim  the  crusts 
and  cut  into  fingers. 

Chicken  and  Almond  Sandwiches 

Chop  sufficient  cold  cooked  chicken  to 
make  a  half  pint.  Chop  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  blanched  almonds,  add  them  to  the 
chicken,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pep- 
per ;  mix  thoroughly,  put  between  thin  slices 
of  buttered  bread  and  cut  into  crescents  or 
rounds. 

Chicken  and  Lettuce  a  la  Kendall 

Put  sufficient  cold  boiled  chicken  through 
the  meat  chopper  to  make  a  half  pint,  pound 
it  in  a  mortar  or  rub  it  in  a  bowl  with  the 
hard-boiled  yolks  of  four  eggs,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  if  you  have  it, 
two  saltspoonf uls  of  celery  seed ;  in  the  win- 
ter you  may  add  a  half  cupful  of  finely  chop- 
ped celery.  Butter  thin  slices  of  white  bread, 


2O  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

cover  them  with  this  mixture,  place  on  top 
a  slice  of  brown  bread  buttered  on  both  sides, 
then  a  thick  layer  of  shredded  celery,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  mayonnaise  in  the  middle, 
then  another  slice  of  buttered  white  bread; 
press  together,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into 
fingers. 

Princess  Sandwiches 

Chop  sufficient  cold  chicken  to  make  a 
half  pint,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  or  olive  oil, 
twelve  walnuts  chopped  very  fine,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  paprika  and  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Put  this  mixture  between  thin  slices 
of  buttered  bread,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut 
into  fingers. 

Windsor  Sandwiches 

Chop  sufficient  cold  boiled  chicken  to 
make  a  half  pint,  add  a  half  cupful  of  finely 
chopped  celery,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
dash  of  pepper  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream ;  mix.  Chop  sufficient  cold  boiled  ham 
or  tongue  to  make  a  half  pint,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  a  few  drops  of 


MRS.    RORERS    SANDWICHES  21 

Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  dash  of  pepper. 
Trim  the  crusts  from  an  entire  loaf  of  bread, 
butter  the  end  of  the  loaf  and  cut  off  a  thin 
slice,  and  so  continue  until  you  have  the  de- 
sired quantity  of  bread. 

Shred  one  head  of  Romaine  or  a  bunch 
of  cress.  This  of  course  must  be  crisp  and 
dry.  Put  a  layer  of  the  chicken  mixture  on 
the  buttered  side  of  a  slice  of  bread,  put  on 
top  another  slice  of  buttered  bread,  then  a 
thick  layer  of  the  shredded  cress  or  Romaine. 
Put  a  thick  layer  of  the  tongue  mixture  on 
another  slice  of  bread  and  cover  it  over  the 
cress.  Press  firmly  together  and  cut  the 
slices  directly  into  halves  the  long  way. 
Wrap  in  waxed  paper  or  tie  with  baby  rib- 
bon. Served  at  afternoon  teas.  If  well 
made,  they  are  the  most  elaborate  and  dainty 
of  all  sandwiches. 

Tea  Biscuit  Sandwiches 

Put  one  quart  of  flour  into  a  bowl;  add 
four  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  sift.  Rub  in  two 
level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  add  suffi- 
cient milk  to  make  a  dough.  This  dough 


22  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 


must  not  be  soft,  but  must  be  sufficiently  stiff 
to  handle  quickly.  Knead  quickly  and  roll 
into  a  sheet  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut 
into  good-sized  round  biscuits ;  they  must  be 
at  least  two  and  a  half  to  three  inches  in 
diameter.  Brush  them  with  milk  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  When  done,  cut  the  center 
from  each  biscuit,  leaving  a  wall  one  inch 
thick;  take  out  the  crumb.  Fill  this  space 
with  deviled  chicken.  Chop  sufficient  cold 
cooked  chicken  to  make  a  pint ;  add  gradually 
eight  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  cream 
or  olive  oil,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  saltspoonf til 
of  white  pepper,  a  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  paprika.  When  thor- 
oughly mixed  fill  the  spaces  just  even  and 
send  at  once  to  the  table.  These  are  nice 
for  porch  suppers,  and  may  be  served  with 
either  tea,  coffee  or  chocolate,  or  may  be 
used  as  an  accompaniment  to  mayonnaise  of 
tomatoes. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  23 

Cheese  Sandwiches  No.  I 

Butter  thin  slices  of  pumpernickel  or 
brown  bread;  put  between  each  two  slices  a 
very  thin  layer  of  Swiss  cheese,  put  two  to- 
gether, and  cut  into  triangles;  garnish  with 
cress. 

Cheese  Sandwiches  No.  2 

Chop  fine  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  soft 
American  cheese ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  add 
the  yolk  of  one  egg  beaten  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a 
dash  of  red  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Have  ready  cut  and 
buttered  a  sufficient  number  of  slices  of 
bread,  either  white  or  whole  wheat.  Stir  the 
cheese  over  the  fire  until  it  is  thoroughly 
melted;  take  from  the  fire  and  when  cool 
spread  it  between  the  slices  of  bread  and  but- 
ter; that  is,  spread  it  on  one  slice  and  cover 
with  the  other;  press  two  together  and  cut 
into  forms. 


24  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Cheese  Sandwiches  No.  3 

Rub  or  pound  until  perfectly  smooth  or 
well  mixed  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  soft  club-house  cheese,  a 
tablespoonful  of  grated  Parmesan,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  an- 
chovy paste;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  tarragon 
vinegar  and  a  half  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
Cut  the  bread  into  thin  slices,  toast  it  until 
it  is  crisp,  not  hard;  spread  this  mixture  on 
one  slice,  cover  it  with  another,  and  cut  into 
shapes. 

Workman's  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Cut  slices  of  brown  bread  about  a  half 
inch  thick.  Do  not  remove  the  crusts.  Take 
a  half  pint  of  cottage  cheese ;  press  it  through 
a  sieve;  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream.  Beat 
until  smooth  and  light.  Spread  each  slice 
of  bread  thickly  with  the  cheese  mixture, 
then  put  a  very  thin  slice  of  white  bread  on 
top  of  the  cheese,  then  cheese  and  brown 
bread,  press  together.  Have  the  outside 
brown  bread  with  a  layer  of  cheese  on  each, 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  25 

and  between  the  layers  of  cheese  a  slice  of 
white  bread.  These  are  palatable,  and  are 
very  much  better  for  the  average  workman 
than  bread  and  ham. 

German  Sandwiches 

Put  a  half  pound  of  Swiss  cheese  through 
the  meat  grinder ;  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  a  dash 
of  cayenne  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Rub  until  you  have  a  perfectly  smooth  paste. 
Put  this  mixture  between  layers  of  buttered 
rye  bread  and  serve.  Do  not  trim  the  crusts 
nor  cut. 

Honolulu  Sandwiches 

Put  two  Spanish  sweet  peppers  (pimien- 
tos),  one  Neufchatel  cheese,  one  pared  and 
quartered  apple  and  twelve  blanched  almonds 
through  the  meat  grinder.  These  may  be 
put  through  alternately,  or  mixed  as  you 
grind.  Rub  the  mixture,  add  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pap- 
rika. Spread  this  between  thin  slices  of  but- 
tered white  or  brown  bread.  Press,  cut  the 
crusts  and  cut  into  fingers. 


26  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

My   Favorite 

Y*  pound  of  American  cheese 

y2  cupful  of  thick  sour  cream 

i  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce 

i  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup 

^4  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Y-Z  teaspoonful  of  paprika 

Chop  or  mash  the  cheese,  add  gradually 
the  cream,  and  when  smooth  add  all  the  other 
ingredients.  Spread  this  mixture  on  thin 
slices  of  buttered  bread,  cover  the  top  with 
chopped  cress,  then  cover  with  another  slice 
of  bread,  press  the  two  together,  trim  off  the 
crusts  and  cut  into  triangles. 

Creole  Sandwiches 

Put  a  half  pound  of  American  cheese 
through  your  meat  grinder,  add  to  it  one 
Neufchatel  cheese,  mix  well  together;  add 
one  fresh  peeled  chopped  tomato.  Peel  the 
tomato  and  cut  it  into  halves;  squeeze  out 
the  seeds  and  chop  the  flesh  quite  fine.  Add 
one  finely  chopped  sweet  red  pepper.  Add  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  black 
pepper;  mix  and  spread  between  slices  of 
white  bread,  or  you  may  use  one  slice  of 


MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES  2J 

white  with  one  slice  of  whole  wheat  bread. 
These  are  usually  served  cut  into  rounds 
with  an  ordinary  cake  cutter.  If  you  cut 
these  economically  you  can  make  one  good 
sized  round  sandwich  and  a  crescent  from 
each,  or  if  you  use  a  very  small  cutter  you 
should  make  four  round  sandwiches. 

Curry  Sandwiches 

Rub  one  Neufchatel  or  Philadelphia 
cream  cheese  to  a  paste.  Add  one  pimiento, 
chopped  fine;  a  dozen  almonds  put  through 
the  meat  grinder ;  a  dozen  pecan  meats,  also 
ground;  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  a 
level  teaspoonful  of  curry  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  desiccated  grated  cocoanut. 
Mix  thoroughly,  add  sufficient  olive  oil  to 
make  a  smooth  paste,  and  spread  between 
thin,  unbuttered  slices  of  white  bread;  trim 
the  crusts  and  cut  into  long  fingers.  These 
are  nice  to  serve  with  plain  lettuce  salad  at 
dinner. 


28  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Deviled  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Put  one  pound  of  American  cheese 
through  your  meat  chopper.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  one  teaspoonful 
of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  paprika,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  and  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt.  Mix  until  perfectly  smooth,  and 
spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread ; 
trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into  triangles. 

Roquefort  Sandwiches 

Mash  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Roquefort 
cheese,  adding  gradually  sufficient  melted 
butter  to  make  a  paste.  Spread  this  between 
slices  of  buttered  bread,  press  together,  trim 
the  crusts,  and  cut  into  fingers. 

Camembert  Sandwiches 

Spread  Camembert  cheese  between  slices 
of  buttered  whole  wheat  bread,  trim  the 
crusts  and  cut  into  shape.  These  may  be 


MRS.    RORERS    SANDWICHES  29 

served  after  lunch  with  coffee,  or  are  ex- 
ceedingly nice  for  picnics  or  for  afternoons 
where  coffee  is  served. 

Cottage  Cheese  Sandwiches 

These  are  nice  for  country  picnics.  The 
cottage  cheese  should  be  made  rather  dry. 
After  it  has  drained  and  is  quite  dry,  mois- 
ten it  by  adding  either  thick  cream  or  melted 
butter ;  do  not  make  it  too  soft.  Add  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper  and  a  palatable  sea- 
soning of  salt.  Spread  between  slices  of 
buttered  whole  wheat  or  white  bread,  press 
the  two  together,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut 
into  shape. 

Salt-Cucumber  Sandwiches 

Spread  the  bread,  and  cut  the  slices  about 
half  an  inch  thick.  Then  cut  a  German  or 
Holland  cucumber  into  very  thin  slices;  put 
these  slices  all  over  the  bread.  Take  the 
center  from  a  head  of  lettuce;  hold  it  to- 
gether, and  slice  it  down  in  sort  of  shreds; 
put  this  over  the  cucumber,  and  have  ready 
some  white  meat  of  chicken,  cut  into  the 


3O  MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES 

thinnest  possible  slices,  and  cover  the  lettuce 
with  chicken ;  then  sprinkle  over  more  shred- 
ded lettuce  and  a  little  mayonnaise ;  put  over 
another  slice  of  buttered  bread;  press  the 
two  together,  trim  into  shape  and  serve  on 
a  napkin  in  a  pretty  wicker  basket. 

Cucumber  Sandwiches 

These  are  very  nice  to  serve  with  a  fish 
course  in  place  of  bread  or  rolls  and  a  salad. 
Slice  the  cucumbers  very  thin  and  soak  them 
in  ice  water  for  one  or  two  hours.  They 
must  be  crisp  and  brittle  and  made  just  at 
serving  time.  Beat  together  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  one  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of 
pepper ;  stand  this  dressing  on  the  ice  until  it 
thickens.  Butter  thin  slices  of  bread,  cover 
them  with  a  layer  of  cucumbers  that  have 
been  drained  and  dried  on  a  napkin,  sprinkle 
over  the  dressing,  put  on  another  layer  of 
buttered  bread.  Press  together,  trim  the 
crusts  and  cut  into  triangles.  Heap  these  at 
once  on  a  napkin  and  send  to  the  table. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  31 

Curried  Oyster  Sandwiches 

Butter  a  slice  of  bread  before  you  take  it 
off  the  loaf;  cut  it  about  a  half  inch  thick 
and  remove  the  crusts.  First  of  all,  cover 
each  slice  with  a  thin  layer  of  hard-boiled 
egg  that  has  been  pressed  through  a  sieve 
or  chopped  very  fine.  In  the  center  of  this 
sandwich  put  the  soft  parts  of  six  pickled 
oysters.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
one  of  flour  into  a  little  saucepan ;  mix  with- 
out melting;  add  a  gill  of  thick  cream,  a 
teaspoonful  of  onion  juice  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  curry  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  turmeric. 
Bring  to  boiling  point;  beat  and  stand  away 
until  perfectly  cold.  When  you  are  ready 
to  serve  the  sandwiches,  cover  each  one  with 
a  thin  layer  of  this  sauce ;  put  a  slice  of  bread 
on  top,  press  together,  and  serve.  The 
sauce  must  not  go  over  the  sandwiches  until 
you  are  ready  to  serve ;  and  then,  remember, 
you  have  but  one  layer  between  two  slices  of 
bread. 


32  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Curried  Egg  Sandwiches 

Hard  boil  four  eggs,  remove  the  yolks 
from  the  whites;  chop  the  whites  very,  very 
fine,  and  press  the  yolks  through  a  sieve. 
Add  to  the  yolks  gradually  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter  or  olive  oil,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice, 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  curry,  and  rub  until 
thoroughly  smooth.  Spread  thin  slices  of 
bread,  cover  them  with  a  very  thin  layer  of 
the  yolk  mixture,  then  a  layer  of  the  chopped 
whites,  another  slice  of  buttered  bread. 
Press  together,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into 
shapes. 

Curried  Sardine  Sandwiches 

Remove  the  heads,  tails  and  bones  from 
one  large  box  of  sardines.  Rub  them  to  a 
paste,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder  and  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt.  Spread  this  mixture 
between  slices  of  buttered  bread,  press  the 
two  together,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into 
shape. 


MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES  33 

Curried  Chicken  Sandwiches 

Chop  sufficient  cold  boiled  chicken  to 
make  a  half  pint.  Rub  together  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour ;  add  a  half  cupful  of  cold  milk,  and  stir 
over  hot  water  until  you  have  a  smooth,  thick 
paste.  Add  the  chicken  gradually  to  this, 
mashing  and  rubbing  all  the  while.  Add  a 
level  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  When 
cold,  spread  between  layers  of  buttered 
bread,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into  shapes. 

Almost  any  bits  of  left-over  meat  may  be 
substituted  for  the  chicken  and  made  into 
sandwiches  of  this  kind. 

Crab  Sandwiches 

Remove  the  meat  from  six  hard-boiled 
crabs;  mix  it  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
mayonnaise  dressing;  put  it  between  slices 
of  bread  and  butter  and  press  two  together ; 
trim  off  the  crusts,  cut  into  triangles  and 
serve  at  once. 


34  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Crab  and  lobster  sandwiches  should  not 
be  allowed  to  stand  for  more  than  an  hour, 
and  then  must  be  wrapped  carefully  in  a 
clean,  damp  cloth. 

Cream  of  Chicken  Sandwiches 

Take  sufficient  white  meat  of  chicken  to 
make  a  half  cup;  chop  and  pound  it;  reduce 
it  to  a  paste.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  granu- 
lated gelatin  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water ;  then  stand  it  over  the  fire  until  it  has 
dissolved.  Whip  a  half  pint  of  cream  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Add  the  gelatin  to  the  chicken; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  horseradish  and 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  this  until  it 
begins  to  thicken,  cool  and  add  carefully  the 
whipped  cream  and  stand  it  away  until  very 
cold.  When  ready  to  make  the  sandwiches, 
butter  the  bread  and  cut  the  slices  a  little 
thicker  than  the  usual  slices  for  sandwiches. 
Cover  each  slice  with  this  cream  mixture; 
trim  off  the  crusts  and  cut  sandwiches  into 
fancy  shapes.  Garnish  the  top  with  olives 
cut  into  rings.  In  the  center  of  each  sand- 
wich make  just  a  little  mound  of  capers, 
using  the  olives  at  the  four  corners;  each 


MRS.    RORERS    SANDWICHES  35 

sandwich  may  be  garnished  in  a  different 
way.  Little  pieces  of  celery,  with  the  white 
top  attached,  make  also  a  pretty  garnish. 
These  sandwiches  are  not  covered  with  a 
second  slice  of  bread. 


Deviled  Sandwiches 

Chop  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cold,  boiled 
tongue  very  fine;  add  to  it  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  olive  oil,  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  paprika ;  mix  and  add  the  hard- 
boiled  yolks  of  three  eggs  that  have  been 
pressed  through  a  sieve.  Put  this  between 
thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  and  garnish 
with  water  cress. 


Egg  Sandwiches  No.  I 

Take  the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  six  eggs 
and  rub  them  to  a  paste,  adding  gradually 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  or  thick  cream. 
Add  a  dash  of  paprika,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  spread  and  finish  precisely  the  same 
as  tongue  sandwich. 


36  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Egg  Sandwiches  No.  2 

Put  thin  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  be- 
tween slices  of  brown  bread  and  butter ;  dust 
the  egg  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Trim 
the  edges  of  the  sandwiches  with  either  cress 
or  lettuce,  and  cut  into  triangles  or  squares. 

Fish  Sandwiches 

Rub  to  a  smooth  paste  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  cold,  boiled  fish;  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  olive  oil,  a  half  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  half  saltspoonful  of  black  pepper. 
Spread  the  slices  of  bread  on  the  loaf,  cut 
them  off  about  a  half  inch  in  thickness ;  trim 
off  the  crusts,  put  on  each  slice  dainty  let- 
tuce leaves,  and  fill  the  center  with  the  fish 
mixture.  Cover  with  another  layer  of  but- 
tered bread  from  which  you  have  trimmed 
the  crusts,  and  press  the  two  together. 

Flaked  Fish  Sandwiches 

Flake  cold  boiled  white  fleshed  fish,  dust 
it  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  it  with 
lemon  juice.  Butter  thin  slices  of  brown 


MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES  37 

bread;  do  not  trim  off  the  crusts.  Put  on 
one  slice  a  layer  of  thin  crisp  cucumber,  cover 
this  with  flaked  fish,  put  a  tablespoonful  of 
mayonnaise  in  the  center,  put  on  another 
layer  of  chopped  cress,  then  a  slice  of  but- 
tered brown  bread.  Press  together  and  cut 
into  halves. 

Spanish  Sandwiches 

Mash  the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
add  twelve  boiled  shrimps,  either  pounded  in 
a  mortar  or  chopped  very  fine.  Add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  or  butter,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  two  saltspoonfuls 
of  paprika,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
parsley,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  at  last 
stir  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Spread  this  between  thin  slices  of 
buttered  bread,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into 
shape. 

Salmon  Sandwiches 

Flake  cold  boiled  salmon,  or  open  a  can 
of  salmon,  drain  it  free  from  oil  and  break 
the  fish  apart  in  good-sized  flakes;  sprinkle 
them  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  But- 


38  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

ter  slices  of  whole  wheat  or  brown  bread, 
cover  with  a  layer  of  the  salmon,  then  a  thick 
layer  of  chopped  cress  or  shredded  celery. 
Put  a  tablespoon ful  of  mayonnaise  in  the 
middle  and  cover  with  another  slice  of  but- 
tered bread.  Press  together,  trim  the  crusts 
and  cut  into  triangles. 

Swedish  Sandwiches 

Flake  any  cold  cooked  fish,  dust  it  with 
salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Rub  the  bot- 
tom of  a  bowl  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  add  a 
half  cupful  of  mayonnaise,  four  finely  chop- 
ped gherkins,  twelve  chopped  olives  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  capers.  Mix  and  stir  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  parsley. 
Spread  a  thin  layer  of  this  dressing  over  a 
plain  slice  of  bread,  do  not  butter  the  bread, 
cover  it  with  fish,  put  on  top  a  crisp  lettuce 
leaf,  then  cover  with  another  slice  of  bread 
that  has  been  spread  with  the  dressing. 
Press,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into  fingers. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  39 

French  Chicken  Sandwiches 

Chop  the  white  meat  of  one  chicken  very 
fine;  pound  to  a  paste.  Add  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper. 
Cover  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatin,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  soak  it  for  about 
five  minutes,  then  add  to  it  ten  tablespoon- 
f uls  of  thick  cream ;  stand  this  over  teakettle 
and  stir  until  gelatin  is  dissolved.  Now,  beat 
into  this  the  chicken,  stand  it  aside  in  a 
square  pan  until  cold.  Cut  the  chicken  into 
very  thin  slices ;  put  a  slice  on  a  slice  of  but- 
tered bread ;  cover  this  with  another  slice  of 
bread  and  cut  into  shape. 

Game  Sandwiches 

Remove  the  breasts  from  two  partridges 
after  they  have  been  baked  or  roasted.  Chop 
the  meat  rather  fine ;  reduce  two  sardines  to 
a  paste.  While  you  are  mashing  the  sar- 
dines, add  gradually  about  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  soft  butter,  a  dash  of  red  pepper  and 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Spread  the  bread 
first  with  the  sardine  paste;  then  sprinkle 
over  the  chopped  game;  dust  this  with  salt 


40  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

and  a  little  pepper;  cover  with  another  slice 
of  bread,  press  lightly ;  trim  into  shape. 


German  Sandwiches 

Cut  thin  slices  of  rye  bread ;  butter  before 
you  take  them  from  the  loaf.  Spread  each 
slice  with  a  thin  layer  of  limburger  cheese. 
Cut  bologna  sausage  into  the  thinnest  possi- 
ble slices ;  cover  the  limburger  with  the  sliced 
bologna,  and  then  a  thin  piece  of  pumper- 
nickel ;  cover  with  another  slice  of  bread  that 
has  been  coated  with  a  layer  of  cheese.  Press 
the  two  together;  do  not  remove  the  crusts. 
Serve  on  a  napkin  in  a  wicker  basket. 

Ham  Sandwiches 

Chop  cold  boiled  ham  very  fine.  To  each 
cupful  of  this  ham,  after  it  has  been  chopped, 
stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
dash  of  red  pepper  and  about  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice.  Have  bread  suffi- 
ciently stale  to  cut  nicely.  Remove  end  crust, 
butter  and  cut  a  very  thin  slice;  remove  the 
crusts,  and  spread  with  the  ham  paste.  Serve 
same  as  tongue  sandwiches. 


MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES  4! 

Indian  Sandwiches 

Take  two  sardines,  remove  skin  and 
bones,  put  them  into  mortar  and  pound  fine ; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  paste,  a  dash 
of  salt  and  red  pepper  and  the  hard-boiled 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  rubbed  smooth;  stir  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  into  the  mixture 
at  the  last.  Cut  bread  into  slices  about  half 
an  inch  thick,  remove  crusts,  then  cut  into 
crescent-shaped  pieces,  toast,  butter  and 
cover  with  the  mixture,  serve  at  once. 

Lettuce  Sandwiches 

Have  bread  made  into  a  large,  square 
loaf,  take  off  the  crust  from  one  end,  butter 
and  then  cut  into  slices.  Take  the  white  part 
of  lettuce,  wash  and  wipe  it  perfectly  dry; 
have  ready  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  remove 
the  yolks,  put  them  through  a  sieve  and  rub 
to  a  perfectly  smooth  paste  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  very  thick  cream.  Add  one- 
half  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and  then  stir 
in  about  four  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped 
cream ;  season  with  red  pepper  and  add  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Cover  slices  of  bread  with 


42  MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES 

leaves  of  lettuce,  put  on  a  goodly  quantity 
of  dressing  and  then  on  top  of  this  another 
slice  of  bread.  This  may  be  served  in 
squares  tied  together  with  ribbon,  or  they 
may  be  pressed  and  cut  into  long  narrow 
pieces.  Of  course,  they  must  be  made  only 
a  short  time  before  serving. 

Lobster  Sandwiches 

Whole  wheat  bread  or  the  ordinary  Bos- 
ton brown  bread  is  the  most  desirable  for 
these  sandwiches.  Plunge  the  lobster  into 
hot  water;  bring  to  boiling  point,  and  sim- 
mer gently  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  re- 
move the  meat,  and  cut  it  with  a  silver  knife 
into  dice.  Now,  sprinkle  the  lobster  with  a 
little  salt,  red  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
tarragon  vinegar.  Allow  it  to  stand  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  then  sprinkle  over  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  As 
soon  as  the  butter  has  chilled  on  the  lobster, 
put  a  goodly  layer  over  a  slice  of  buttered 
bread;  cover  with  another  slice  of  bread; 
press  the  two  together,  and  remove  the 
crusts.  Remember,  there  is  only  one  layer 
of  lobster  between  two  slices  of  bread. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  43 

Lobster  Salad  Sandwiches 

Cut  fine  the  solid  portion  from  one  boiled 
lobster,  put  it  into  a  bowl,  dust  it  lightly  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  over  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Make  a  half  cup- 
ful of  mayonnaise  from  the  yolk  of  one  egg 
and  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil.  Select 
crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Mix  the  mayonnaise 
with  the  lobster,  put  a  thin  layer  over  a  slice 
of  buttered  bread,  cover  with  a  lettuce  leaf, 
put  another  thin  layer  of  lobster  on  top  of  the 
lettuce  leaf,  then  a  second  slice  of  buttered 
bread.  Press  firmly  together,  cut  off  the 
crusts  and  cut  the  slices  into  halves  long 
ways,  or  you  may  make  it  into  three  fingers. 

Mutton  Sandwiches 

Chop  a  half  pound  of  cold,  cooked  mut- 
ton very  fine;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  or  olive  oil,  a  tablespoonful  of  capers, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  saltspoonful 
of  pepper ;  mix  thoroughly.  Butter  the  slices 
on  the  loaf ;  cut  them  one-half  inch  thick,  and 
trim  off  the  crusts.  Spread  thickly  with  the 
mixture;  put  at  each  of  the  four  corners  a 


44  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

mint  leaf;  put  on  top  another  slice  of  but- 
tered bread,  from  which  you  have  trimmed 
the  crust,  press  the  two  together,  and  cut 
from  corner  to  corner  making  four  triangles. 
These  sandwiches  may  also  be  flavored 
with  tomato  catsup. 

Mutton  Club  Sandwiches 

Cut  brown  bread  into  rounds  or  circles 
with  an  ordinary  cake  cutter.  Chop  one-half 
pound  of  cold,  boiled  mutton  rather  fine ;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pap- 
rika. Peel  four  or  five  quite  solid  tomatoes, 
cut  them  into  slices  and  push  out  the  seeds. 
Put  a  slice  of  tomato  on  top  of  a  round  of 
bread,  fill  the  space  from  which  you  have 
taken  the  seeds  with  the  mutton  mixture; 
put  on  top  another  round  of  buttered  bread, 
and  press  the  two  together.  You  may,  if 
you  like,  put  on  top  of  the  tomato  a  lettuce 
leaf,  and  in  the  center  of  that  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Nice  for 
luncheon  on  a  warm  day. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  45 

English  Mutton  Sandwiches 

Chop  sufficient  cold  boiled  mutton  to 
make  a  pint.  Add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  capers,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  six  ta- 
blespoonfuls of  cream  or  olive  oil  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper.  Mash  carefully  and  put 
between  layers  of  buttered  bread;  trim  the 
crusts  and  cut  into  triangles. 

Spring  Lamb  Sandwiches 

Grind  sufficient  lamb  to  make  a  half  pint, 
putting  through  the  meat  grinder  with  the 
lamb  the  leaves  from  six  stalks  of  mint.  Add 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter  or  cream,  and  a  saltspoonful 
of  pepper.  Rub  this  to  a  paste  and  spread 
between  toasted  English  muffins.  Leaves  of 
mint  may  be  put  over  the  top  of  the  lamb  be- 
fore putting  the  muffins  together. 

Turkish  Sandwiches 

Chop  sufficient  cold  roasted  mutton  to 
make  a  pint;  add  two  solid  tomatoes  from  a 
can  of  tomatoes,  or  two  fresh  tomatoes. 


46 

peeled,  the  seeds  pressed  out  and  the  flesh 
chopped  fine.  Add  a  half  cupful  of  pinons 
or  pine  nuts,  and  sufficient  olive  oil  to  bind 
the  whole  together.  Spread  this  between 
thin,  warm  milk  or  beaten  biscuits  and  serve 
for  afternoon  tea  or  supper. 

Picnic  Sandwiches 

Take  the  ordinary  French  rolls;  make  a 
round  opening  in  the  top  of  each,  and  then, 
with  your  finger,  scoop  out  all  the  crumb, 
leaving  the  roll  in  shape  with  a  very  small 
opening  on  top.  Save  the  little  piece  of 
crust  from  the  top  of  the  opening.  Mix  to- 
gether four  olives,  one  gherkin,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  capers  and  one  large  green,  sweet 
pepper,  chopped  very  fine.  Chop  fine  two 
ounces  of  tongue,  and  mix  it  with  the  white 
meat  of  one  chicken,  chopped  fine.  Mix  .o- 
gether,  and  moisten  with  a  well-made  may- 
onnaise dressing.  Fill  this  into  the  roll,  put 
on  the  top,  and  arrange  neatly  on  a  napkin 
in  a  wicker  basket;  serve  at  once.  The  rolls 
may  be  prepared  and  the  mixture  made  some 
time  before  serving,  but  the  two  should  be 
put  together  at  the  last  moment. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  47 

Potato   Sandwiches 

Mash  four  good-sized  boiled  potatoes; 
add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  and  the  yolks  of 
four  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  to  a  smooth 
paste,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil;  mix  thoroughly  until 
you  have  a  perfectly  smooth  paste.  Put  this 
between  slices  of  brown  bread  and  butter, 
trim  off  the  crusts,  and  cut  into  triangles. 
The  top  may  be  garnished  with  cress  or  let- 
tuce. 

Salad  Sandwiches 

Chop  fine  half  a  pound  of  cold,  cooked 
chicken;  mix  with  it  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
mayonnaise  dressing;  add  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper ;  put  this 
between  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  and  cut 
into  fancy  shapes. 

These  sandwiches  may  also  be  trimmed 
with  lettuce  or  cress,  and  almost  any  meat 
may  be  substituted  for  the  chicken.  If  beef 
is  used,  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup  may 
be  added;  with  mutton  a  tablespoonful  of 
capers.  Beef  is  much  better  garnished  with 


48  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

cress,  mutton  with  mint,  chicken  with  lettuce 
or  celery. 

Lobsters  and  crabs  may  be  mixed  with 
mayonnaise  and  used  as  a  salad  sandwich; 
garnish  of  course  with  lettuce. 

Fish  Salad  Sandwiches 

Flake  one  can  of  salmon,  or  an  equal 
quantity  of  cold  boiled  fish.  Add  to  it  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  and 
one  ordinary  cucumber,  grated  and  drained. 
Just  before  serving  time  butter  the  bread,  cut 
it  into  thin  slices,  put  over  the  top  a  layer  of 
the  flaked  fish,  then  a  thin  layer  of  mayon- 
naise or  sandwich  dressing  and  another  cov- 
ering of  bread.  Press  together,  trim  the 
crusts  and  cut  directly  across  the  slice,  mak- 
ing two  long  sandwiches  about  an  inch  and 
a  half  to  two  inches  wide. 

Sardine  Salad  Sandwiches 

These,  like  salmon  sandwiches,  are  made 
from  materials  usually  in  every  household, 
and  can  be  made  at  a  moment's  notice.  Stir 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  into  an  egg,  add  a 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  49 

few  drops  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Re- 
move the  sardines  from  the  oil,  take  off  the 
tails  and  heads  and  remove  the  bones.  Mash 
them  in  a  bowl,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  vin- 
egar, or  the  same  amount  of  lemon  juice.  If 
you  have  lettuce  or  cress,  either  shred  it,  or 
put  one  leaf  between  the  fish  and  the  buttered 
bread. 

Sardine  Sandwiches 

Cut  slices  of  bread  about  one-half  an  inch 
thick,  butter  and  toast;  trim  off  the  crust. 
Remove  skin  and  bones  from  the  sardines, 
lay  them  carefully  over  toast;  have  ready, 
chopped  very  fine,  some  olives  and  capers, 
mixed  together ;  sprinkle  these  over  the  sar- 
dines, then  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  to 
each  sandwich.  Cut  into  any  shape  you  may 
desire  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 

Swiss  Sandwiches 

Put  half  a  pound  of  ordinary  schmier- 
kase  into  a  bowl,  rub  it  perfectly  smooth; 
add,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  thick  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 


5O  MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES 

a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Butter  the  slices 
of  bread  on  the  loaf ;  cut  each  off  about  a  half 
inch  in  thickness,  trim  off  the  crusts  and 
spread  with  the  cheese  mixture;  put  on  top 
a  layer  of  pumpernickel  or  rye  bread ;  on  top 
of  that  another  thin  layer  of  cheese,  and 
on  top  of  that  another  layer  of  white  bread 
and  butter ;  press  these  lightly  together.  If 
the  crusts  have  been  trimmed  off,  cut  the 
slices  into  three  or  four  finger  shaped  sand- 
wiches. They  should  be  the  length  of  the 
slice  and  about  one  inch  wide.  These  are 
exceedingly  nice  garnished  with  cress. 

In  arranging  them  for  serving,  put  a 
layer  of  sandwiches  and  a  layer  of  cress  all 
through  the  basket  or  dish. 

Tongue  Sandwiches 

Chop  cold  boiled  tongue  very  fine.  To 
each  cupful  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  dash  of  red  pepper  and  about 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice.  Have 
bread  sufficiently  stale  to  cut  nicely.  Remove 
end  crust,  butter  and  cut  a  very  thin  slice; 
remove  the  crusts.  Spread  it  with  the  ton- 
gue paste,  roll  each  sandwich  carefully,  tie 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  51 

with  narrow  ribbon  and  put  away  until 
wanted.  These  can  be  made  several  hours 
before  serving. 

Sandwich  Dressing 

Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and 
three  of  water  into  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ; 
add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  half  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  until  creamy,  add  slowly  to  them  the 
hot  mixture.  Stir  over  hot  water  until  it  is 
the  consistency  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  add  carefully  two 
level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


Farmer's  Sandwiches 

Butter  each  slice  on  the  loaf,  slice  it  off 
very  thin.  Remove  the  crusts,  lay  a  crisp 
lettuce  leaf  on  one  half  the  buttered  slices, 
spread  with  sandwich  dressing  and  cover 
with  a  slice  of  buttered  bread.  Press  the  two 
together  and  cut  into  triangles.  Cress,  Ro- 
maine,  or  bleached  chicory  may  be  used  in 
place  of  lettuce.  These  are  more  appetizing 


52  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

than  ordinary  bread  and  butter  sandwiches, 
and  are  made  from  materials  found  in  every 
household. 

Farmer's  Egg  Sandwiches 

Put  six  eggs  into  warm  water,  bring  to 
a  boil  and  keep  at  boiling  point,  without  boil- 
ing hard,  for  a  half  hour.  Throw  them  into 
cold  water,  remove  the  shells  and  cut  them 
into  slices  lengthwise.  A  very  fine  wire  is 
best  for  cutting  eggs.  Butter  the  slices  on 
the  loaf,  then  cut  them  off,  cover  with  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs,  dust  lightly  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Spread  the  eggs  carefully  with 
sandwich  dressing,  put  on  another  slice  of 
buttered  bread,  press  the  two  together  and 
cut  into  triangles.  If  you  have  lettuce  or 
cress  put  a  leaf  over  the  dressing. 

Deviled  Beef  Sandwiches 

Chop  remains  of  cold  cooked  beef  very 
fine.  To  each  pint  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
tomato  catsup,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  a  half  teaspoonful  of 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  53 

paprika  and  a  tablespoonful  of  onion  juice. 
Rub  to  a  paste  and  put  between  thin  slices  of 
buttered  bread,  trim  off  the  crusts  and  cut 
into  triangles. 

Corned  Beef  Sandwiches 

Chop  sufficient  cold  cooked  corned  beef 
to  make  a  pint.  Add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of 
horseradish,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter  or  olive  oil  and  four  or  five  tablespoon- 
fuls of  finely-shredded  water  cress.  Put  this 
between  slices  of  buttered  whole  wheat  or 
brown  bread;  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into 
triangles. 

Plain  Corned  Beef  Sandwiches 

Butter  an  equal  quantity  of  white  and 
whole  wheat  bread.  Cut  the  cooked  corned 
beef  into  very  thin  slices.  Put  a  slice  on  a 
slice  of  buttered  bread,  put  on  top  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  creamed  horseradish  sauce, 
spread  it  out,  cover  with  cress  leaves,  or 
crisp  lettuce  leaf,  put  on  a  slice  of  whole 
wheat  bread,  press  the  two  together,  trim 
the  crusts  and  cut  into  fingers  about  one 
inch  wide. 


54  MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES 

To  make  the  creamed  horseradish  sauce, 
stir  thick,  dry  whipped  cream  into  dry  horse- 
radish. If  the  horseradish  is  in  vinegar, 
press  out  the  vinegar  and  then  fold  in  the 
whipped  cream. 

Sandwiches  a  la  Stanley 

Cut  cold  beef  loaf  or  roll  into  very  thin 
slices.  Bake  three  or  four  bananas,  and 
make  a  creamed  horseradish  sauce  according 
to  preceding  recipe.  Butter  white  or  whole 
wheat  bread,  put  on  first  a  slice  of  meat,  then 
just  a  thin  layer  of  the  mashed  baked  banana, 
then  a  teaspoonful  of  horseradish  sauce,  and 
another  slice  of  bread.  Press  together,  trim 
the  crusts,  cut  into  triangles  and  serve. 
These  sandwiches  should  be  served  soon 
after  they  are  made. 

English   Salt-Beef   Sandwiches 

Whip  a  half  cupful  of  cream  until  it  is 
very  stiff.  Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  freshly 
grated  horseradish  or  horseradish  pressed 
free  from  vinegar  into  a  bowl,  add  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  mix  and 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  55 

fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Have  ready  very 
thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  salt  beef.  Butter 
thin  slices  of  bread,  put  on  a  layer  of  salt 
beef,  then  a  thin  layer  of  the  horseradish 
sauce  and  another  layer  of  buttered  bread. 
Press  together,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into 
triangles. 

Sandwiches  a  la  Bernhardt 

Chop  sufficient  very  rare  cold  roasted 
beef  to  make  a  half  pint;  mix  with  it  a  dash 
of  cayenne,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  a  tablespoonful  of 
mango  chutney,  two  shallots,  a  half  clove  of 
garlic  and  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil. 
Spread  this  on  a  thin  slice  of  buttered  brown 
bread,  cover  it  with  leaves  of  cress,  and  then 
put  on  another  thin  slice  of  buttered  white 
bread.  Press  the  two  together,  cut  into 
crescents  or  triangles. 

East  Indian  Lentil  Sandwiches 

Take  any  left-over  boiled  or  stewed  len- 
tils and  press  them  through  a  sieve.  To 
each  half  cupful  of  this  mixture  add  a  half 


56  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

cupful  of  chopped  pecans,  a  level  teaspoonful 
of  curry  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Spread 
thin  slices  of  brown  bread  with  butter,  then 
put  over  a  thick  layer  of  this  mixture  and 
cover  with  chopped  parsley.  Cover  with 
another  layer  of  brown  bread,  press  together, 
trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into  fingers. 

Nut-Butter  Sandwiches 

Mix  one  glass  of  nut  butter  with  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  chopped  pimientos.  Spread  this  on  a 
slice  of  unbuttered  brown  bread,  cover  with 
finely-chopped  cress  or  shredded  lettuce, 
place  on  top  a  slice  of  buttered  bread,  press 
the  two  together,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into 
fingers  an  inch  wide. 

Filipino  Sandwiches 

Add  one  grated  pineapple  to  a  tumbler 
of  peanut  butter,  mix  thoroughly,  add  a  ta- 
blespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne, a  half  teaspoonful  of  paprika.  Put  this 
between  thin  slices  of  brown  bread,  buttered ; 
press  together  and  cut  into  halves. 


SWEET  SANDWICHES 

Under  this  heading  we  place  all  those 
dainty  sandwiches  that  are  made  from  thin 
slices  of  bread  and  butter  and  a  jam  or  fruit 
filling.  They  are  usually  cut  into  circles;  it 
is  more  economical  to  do  this  before  the 
bread  is  buttered,  unless  you  can  cut  rounds 
from  one  side,  and  a  crescent  above  it.  Al- 
most any  sweet  may  be  used.  Serve  with 
chocolate  or  coffee  according  to  the  fruit, 
either  for  an  afternoon  tea  or  an  "evening/' 

Cherry  Sandwiches 

Chop  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied 
cherries  very  fine,  adding  occasionally  as  you 
chop  them  a  few  drops  of  orange  juice,  if 
you  use  wine,  a  few  drops  of  sherry.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  spread  over  water  thins, 
making  it  a  little  deeper  in  the  center  than  at 
the  edges.  These  sandwiches  are  better 
made  from  crackers  than  from  bread.  Ar- 
range neatly  on  a  pretty  glass  dish,  and  they 
are  ready  to  serve. 


58  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Fig  Sandwiches 

Split  a  dozen  figs  and  scrape  out  the  soft 
portion,  rejecting  the  skins;  work  this  to  a 
paste.  Cut  the  slices  of  bread  from  the  loaf, 
buttering  before  you  cut  them;  make  them 
quite  thin.  Remove  the  crusts,  and  spread 
this  thick  paste  over  the  bread  and  roll  care- 
fully; press  for  a  moment  until  there  is  no 
danger  of  the  roll  opening;  roll  each  in  a 
piece  of  tissue  paper;  twist  the  ends  as  you 
would  an  old-fashioned  "secret,"  or  they  may 
be  tied  with  baby  ribbon.  These  are  exceed- 
ingly wholesome  and  palatable. 

Fruit  and  Nut  Sandwiches 

These  are  perhaps  the  most  attractive  of 
all  the  sweet  sandwiches. 

Put  through  the  meat  chopper  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  almonds  with  half  a  pound  of 
washed  figs,  the  same  quantity  of  dates,  the 
same  of  raisins,  and  a  pound  of  pecan  nuts ; 
put  them  through  alternately  so  that  they 
will  be  mixed  in  chopping.  Pack  the  mix- 
ture into  round  baking  powder  tins,  pressing 
it  down  firmly,  and  stand  it  aside  over  night. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  59 

When  wanted,  dip  the  tin  in  hot  water, 
loosen  it  with  a  knife  and  "shake  out  the  mix- 
ture. With  a  sharp  knife  cut  into  very  thin 
slices  and  put  them  between  two  rounds  of 
buttered  bread.  Serve  with  chocolate. 

The  combination  may  be  varied ;  candied 
cherries,  citron  or  any  of  the  candied  fruits 
may  be  substituted  for  the  dates  and  figs. 
Brazilian  and  pine  nuts  may  be  substituted 
for  a  portion  of  the  pecans. 

Orange  Marmalade  Sandwiches 

These  sandwiches  may  be  made  precisely 
the  same  as  fig  sandwiches,  substituting  the 
orange  marmalade  for  the  figs. 

Sponge  Cake  Sandwiches 

Bake  a  sponge  cake  in  a  square  loaf ;  cut 
it  into  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  cut 
the  slices  into  rounds  with  a  small  biscuit 
cutter.  With  another  small  cutter  take  out 
the  center  leaving  the  ring;  put  this  ring  on 
top  of  a  solid  round  making  sort  of  a  patty 
as  it  were;  fill  the  spaces  with  a  mixture  of 
chopped  candied  fruit  that  has  been  soaked 


6o  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

in  orange  juice  over  night;  cover  the  top 
with  the  meringue  made  from  white  of  egg 
and  sugar;  put  them  in  the  oven  to  brown, 
dish  neatly  and  they  are  ready  to  use.  These 
cannot  stand  over  an  hour  as  the  fruit  will 
soften  the  cake. 

Fresh  Fruit  Sandwiches 

These  sandwiches  are  exceedingly  nice  to 
serve  for  afternoon  teas.  They  must  be  used 
soon  after  they  are  made.  They  will,  how- 
ever, if  wrapped  in  a  damp  napkin,  keep  for 
an  hour,  but  as  fruit  is  soft  the  bread  is  liable 
to  become  moist,  which  spoils  the  sandwich. 

Butter  the  bread  and  put  between  layers 
of  sliced  strawberries,  dusted  with  powdered 
sugar;  or  raspberries,  or  large  blackberries 
cut  into  halves;  or  peaches,  finely  chopped; 
or  apple  seasoned  with  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
olive  oil  and  lemon  juice;  or  sliced  bananas 
with  a  dash  of  lemon  juice,  are  all  nice. 

Raisin  Sandwiches 

Put  one-half  pound  of  seeded  raisins 
through  the  meat  grinder,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  almonds  that  have  been  blanched, 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  61 

dried  and  ground.  Add  a  half  tumbler  of 
quince  jelly,  mix  thoroughly  and  put  between 
thin  slices  of  buttered  white  bread.  These 
sandwiches  are  very  nice  in  place  of  cake  for 
afternoon  teas  or  evening  companies. 

Afternoon  Teas 

Stone  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  dates,  put 
them  through  a  meat  grinder,  add  to  them  a 
half  tumbler  of  nut  butter,  mix  until  smooth, 
add  four  tablespoonf uls  of  sweet  cream  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice.  Put  this 
mixture  between  thin  slices  of  white  buttered 
bread,  press  together,  trim  the  crusts  and 
cut  into  fingers  or  four  small  triangles. 

Nut  and  Apple  Sandwiches 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  thick  stewed  apples 
into  a  bowl,  add  the  grated  yellow  rind  of 
quarter  of  an  orange  and  one  cupful  of  finely 
chopped  mixed  nuts.  Spread  this  on  saltines, 
Uneedas,  or  any  crisp  cracker.  Put  on  top 
another  cracker  and  serve  at  once.  These 
are  very  nice  for  children's  parties.  Of 
course  one  may  use  buttered  bread,  either 
white  or  brown. 


62  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Grape  Fruit  Sandwiches 

Spread  any  crisp  cracker  with  a  thin 
layer  of  grape  fruit  marmalade,  put  on  top 
another  cracker  and  serve  at  once. 

Ginger  Sandwiches 

Put  four  or  five  pieces  of  ginger  through 
your  meat  chopper.  Stir  this  paste  into  a 
half  cupful  of  orange  marmalade.  Put  be- 
tween slices  of  buttered  bread,  press  them 
together,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  into  fingers. 
These  are  nice  for  afternoon  teas.  Ginger 
and  carrot  marmalade  are  also  very  nice. 


CANAPES 

These  are  slices  of  bread  cut. into  fancy 
shapes,  toasted  or  quickly  fried  in  hot  oil,  or 
they  may  be  spread  with  butter  and  browned 
in  a  quick  oven.  One  slice  only  is  used  for 
each  canape.  The  mixture  is  spread  on  top, 
the  top  garnished,  and  the  canape  used  at 
once. 

Anchovy  Canapes 

Cover  a  round  or  square  of  toast  with 
anchovies  th^t  have  been  mashed  and  sea- 
soned with  a  little  tomato  catsup.  Put  a 
little  chopped  celery  around  the  edge  as  a 
garnish  and  send  at  once  to  the  table. 

Caviar  Canapes 

Season  the  caviar  with  onion  and  a  very 
little  lemon  juice;  spread  over  a  round  or 
square  canape,  put  chopped  onion  around  the 
edge,  garnish  the  top  with  a  hard-boiled  egg ; 
place  on  paper  mats  and  send  at  once  to  the 
table.  These  are  used  as  first  course  at  lunch 
or  dinner. 


64  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Swedish  Canapes 

Cut  thick  slices  of  whole  wheat  or  Gra- 
ham bread,  trim  the  crusts  and  hollow  out 
the  centers,  being  careful  not  to  make  a  hole 
all  the  way  through.  Pound  or  mash  the 
hard  boiled  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  anchovy  paste  or  two  anchovies, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  dash  of 
lemon  juice.  Cut  a  dill  pickle  lengthwise 
into  slices  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  then 
cut  these  slices  into  long  strips  a  half  inch 
wide.  Cut  large  pickled  beets  into  strips  of 
the  same  width.  Cut  a  dozen  pimolas  into 
halves.  Butter  the  bread,  fill  with  the  paste, 
put  over  the  strips  of  dill  pickle,  leaving  one 
inch  between  each  strip.  Cross  these  with 
strips  of  pickled  beets,  put  half  of  a  pimola 
into  each  square.  Dish  on  paper  mats. 
Serve  as  an  appetizer  before  soup. 

Chopped  Tongue  Canapes 

Chop  cold,  cooked  tongue  very  fine;  sea- 
son it  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil 
and  a  dusting  of  pepper ;  spread  it  over  the 
top  of  a  round  of  toasted  bread ;  garnish  the 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  65 

edge  with  the  small  leaves  of  cress,  put  a 
little  grated  hard-boiled  egg  in  the  center 
and  send  at  once  to  the  table. 


Sardine  Canapes 

Remove  the  skin  and  pound  the  sardines 
to  a  paste;  put  a  thick  layer  of  this  paste 
over  the  top  of  a  round  of  toasted  bread. 
Cut  one  gherkin  into  very  thin  slices,  ar- 
range them  overlapping  around  the  edge; 
put  a  little  finely  chopped  hard-boiled  egg  in 
the  center,  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 


Fish  Canapes 

Pound  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cooked 
fish  to  a  paste ;  season  it  with  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash 
of  black  pepper.  Stir  into  it  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sauce  tartare;  spread  this  on  six  or 
eight  rounds  of  buttered  bread  browned  in 
the  oven;  garnish  the  tops  with  grated  cu- 
cumber and  send  to  the  table. 


66  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Deviled  Oyster  Canapes 

Cut  slices  of  bread  into  squares,  toast 
and  remove  the  crusts.  Remove  the  hard 
part  from  a  pint  of  pickled  oysters,  place 
oysters  over  bread,  close  together  and  in 
rotation,  dust  thickly  with  red  pepper;  put 
over  as  a  thin  covering  a  highly  seasoned 
sauce  mayonnaise,  and  serve.  Do  not  put 
over  a  second  piece  of  bread. 

Pate  de  Foie  Gras  Canapes 

For  twenty-four  sandwiches  take  one 
tureen  of  foie  gras.  Remove  the  fat,  and 
mash  the  foie  gras  to  a  perfectly  smooth 
paste,  adding  gradually  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  soft,  not  melted,  butter;  add  a  dash  of 
cayenne  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
about  ten  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  press  the 
whole  through  a  sieve.  Cut  slices  of  bread 
into  fancy  shapes  and  toast;  crescents  are 
very  pretty.  Cover  each  slice  thickly  with 
this  paste ;  garnish  with  hard-boiled  white  of 
egg,  cut  into  diamonds  or  tiny  crescents,  and 
olives  cut  into  rings.  Arrange  neatly,  and 
they  are  ready  to  serve. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  67 

Hot  Canapes 

A  canape  is  the  half  of  a  sandwich,  as  it 
were.  Minced  meats  of  various  kinds  are 
served  on  one  slice  of  bread.  In  many  books 
they  are  called  "uncovered  sandwiches/'  The 
cold  canapes  are  placed  always  among  the 
appetizers  and  served  before  the  soup.  They 
are  made  of  such  materials  as  caviar,  sar- 
dines, anchovies,  pickled  oysters,  pickled  lob- 
ster, deviled  shrimps,  or  a  mixture  of  one  or 
two  of  these  materials. 

A  hot  canape,  however,  is  served  in  the 
place  of  fish  or  as  an  entree.  If  they  are 
dressed  with  either  fish  or  shell-fish  they  will 
take  the  place  of  that  course.  When  made 
from  chicken,  sweetbreads  or  game,  should 
be  served  as  an  entree,  following  the  fish. 

Fish  Canapes 

Pick  apart  sufficient  cold  cooked  fish  to 
make  a  half  pint.  Rub  together  two  level 
tablespoonf uls  of  butter  and  two  of  flour,  add 
a  half  pint  of  milk,  stir  until  boiling,  add  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  soy, 
a  dash  of  red  pepper  and  a  half  saltspoonful 


68  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

of  black  pepper.  When  this  is  hot  add  the 
fish  and  four  or  five  nice  sliced  mushrooms; 
stand  over  hot  water,  without  stirring,  until 
the  fish  is  thoroughly  heated.  While  this  is 
heating,  trim  the  crusts  from  six  slices  of 
bread;  toast  the  one  side  carefully.  Have 
ready  in  your  pastry  bag  with  a  star  tube  a 
pint  of  light  mashed  potatoes;  press  in  a 
rope-like*  form,  or  in  small  rosettes,  around 
the  edge  of  the  bread  on  the  untoasted  side. 
Brush  the  bread  with  a  little  melted  butter, 
put  them  in  the  oven  until  the  potatoes  and 
bread  are  a  golden  brown.  Dish  these  on 
square  paper  mats  on  individual  plates,  fill 
the  centers  with  the  creamed  fish  and  send  at 
once  to  the  table. 

Canned  salmon  may  be  used  in  the  place 
of  fresh  boiled  fish. 


MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES  69 

Lobster  Canapes 

1  three-pound  lobster 
The  yolks  of  two  eggs 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 

pint  of  milk 

tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley 
level  teaspoonful  of  salt 
saltspoonful  of  white  pepper 
pint  of  mashed  potatoes 
6  slices  of  bread 

Toast  the  bread  and  arrange  the  potatoes 
according  to  the  preceding  recipe.  Rub  the 
butter  and  flour  together,  add  the  milk ;  when 
boiling  add  the  seasoning  and  the  lobster. 
When  very  hot  stir  in  carefully  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Stir  this  until  it 
is  smoking  hot,  but  be  careful  not  to  boil,  or 
it  will  curdle.  Fill  this  on  top  of  the  toast 
that  has  been  garnished  with  potatoes,  dust 
with  chopped  parsley  and  send  to  the  table. 

Shrimps  may  be  substituted  for  lobster. 


70  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Sweetbread  Canapes 

1  pair  calf's  sweetbreads 
YZ  can  of  mushrooms 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 

YZ,  pint  of  milk 
YI  teaspoonful  of  salt 
i  saltspoonful  of  pepper 

Boil  the  sweetbreads  carefully  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour;  throw  them  into  cold 
water;  pick  them  apart,  rejecting  the  mem- 
brane. Chop  the  mushrooms  very  fine,  add 
them  to  the  sweetbreads.  Rub  the  butter 
and  flour  together,  add  the  milk ;  when  boil- 
ing add  the  salt,  pepper,  sweetbreads  and 
mushrooms ;  cover  and  stand  over  hot  water 
ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  them  on  slices 
of  bread,  garnished  with  mashed  potatoes 
pressed  through  a  star  tube. 


MRS.    RORERS    SANDWICHES  7! 

Canapes  a  la  Trinidad 

Half  the  white  meat  from  one  boiled  chicken 

1  pair  of  sweetbreads 

6  large  fresh  mushrooms 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 

YZ  pint  of  milk 

2  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs 

i  level  teaspoonful  of  salt 

i  saltspoonful  of  pepper 

Cut  twelve  slices  of  bread ;  trim  the  crusts 
so  the  slices  will  be  of  even  size.  Cut  out 
the  centers  from  one-half  the  slices,  leaving 
a  wall  of  one  inch.  Toast  the  solid  slices. 
Brush  the  untoasted  edge  of  the  bread  with 
a  little  white  of  egg,  lay  on  the  rims  and  put 
them  in  the  oven  to  toast  on  the  upper  side. 
Pick  the  sweetbreads  apart,  after  they  are 
carefully  cooked,  rejecting  the  membrane. 
Slice  the  mushrooms.  Cut  the  chicken  into 
dice.  Put  the  butter  into  a  saucepan,  add  the 
mushrooms,  toss  for  a  minute  until  the  mush- 
rooms are  slightly  softened,  then  add  the 
flour,  mix,  and  add  the  milk,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  this  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  until  the  mushrooms 
are  cooked;  then  add  the  meat.  Stand  this 
over  hot  water  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  The 


72  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

toast  should  now  be  done  and  crisp.  Ar- 
range each  canape  on  a  square  of  lace  paper 
on  an  individual  heated  dish,  put  the  mixture 
in  the  center,  garnish  with  the  yolk  of  the 
eggs  pressed  through  a  sieve.  Garnish  the 
very  top  with  a  little  chopped  truffle  or  a 
little  chopped  parsley.  These  are  the  hand- 
somest of  all  hot  canapes,  and  while  they  are 
usually  served  following  the  soup  at  dinner, 
they  may  be  used  for  the  main  course  at  a 
ladies'  luncheon,  or  at  a  supper. 

Game  Canapes 

Cut  any  pieces  of  left-over  game  into  dice. 
Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  of 
flour  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  half  pint  of  stock. 
When  boiling  add  a  half  can  of  very  fine 
mushrooms,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  ham, 
a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pep- 
per. Bring  this  to  a  boil,  add  the  game; 
stand  over  hot  water  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  until  the  game  has  absorbed  part  of 
the  sauce,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sherry  or  Madeira,  and  fill  into  the  square 
canapes  made  the  same  as  in  preceding  recipe. 


MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES  73 

Lamb  Canapes 

2  cans,  or  one  quart  of  cooked  peas 

1  blade  of  mace 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 

Y?  pint  of  stock 

I  teaspoonful  of  kitchen  bouquet 
Y-Z  teaspoonful  of  salt 

1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  claret 
I  saltspoonful  of  pepper 

Put  the  butter  and  onion  in  a  saucepan, 
shake  it  over  the  fire,  then  add  the  cold  boiled 
lamb,  cut  into  blocks;  you  should  have  one 
pint.  When  this  is  boiling  add  all  the  sea- 
soning and  stand  the  mixture  over  hot  water 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  while  you  make  the 
canapes.  Press  the  peas  through  a  sieve; 
the  pulp  must  be  quite  dry ;  add  to  it  a  palat- 
able seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  and  one  or 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Put 
these  in  a  pastry  bag.  Toast  the  bread  on 
one  side,  put  the  peas  around  in  rope-like 
form,  or  roses,  on  the  untoasted  side,  making 
a  border  sufficiently  high  to  hold  the  lamb. 
Stand  in  the  oven  until  the  bread  is  carefully 


74  MRS.  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

toasted.  Arrange  them  on  lace  papers  on 
heated  plates,  fill  the  center  with  the  lamb 
mixture  and  send  to  the  table. 

Club-House  Sandwiches 

Club-house  sandwiches  may  be  made  in 
a  number  of  different  ways,  but  are  served 
warm  as  a  rule  on  bread  carefully  toasted  at 
the  last  moment.  Put  on  top  of  a  square  of 
toasted  bread  a  thin  layer  of  broiled  ham  or 
bacon;  on  top  of  this  a  thin  slice  of  Holland 
pickle,  on  top  of  that  a  thin  slice  of  cold 
roasted  chicken  or  turkey,  then  a  leaf  of  let- 
tuce in  the  center  of  which  you  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing;  cover  this 
with  another  slice  of  buttered  toast.  Press 
the  two  together,  and  cut  from  one  corner  to 
another  making  two  large  triangles,  and 
send  at  once  to  the  table. 

People  not  using  ham  may  make  a  palat- 
able sandwich  by  putting  down  first  a  layer 
of  cold  boiled  tongue,  then  a  layer  of  Hol- 
land cucumber,  a  layer  of  turkey  or  chicken, 
another  layer  of  cucumber  and  the  slice  of 
toast.  Garnish  with  little  pieces  of  water 
cress  before  putting  on  the  last  slice. 


SCENTED  SANDWICHES 

There  is  a  group  of  rather  aesthetic  sand- 
wiches made  from  thin  slices  of  bread  and 
butter  flavored  or  scented  with  flowers. 
Among  those  in  common  use  are  clover,  rose 
and  the  nasturtium. 

The  crust  is  trimmed  off  from  the  out- 
side of  the  loaf;  the  loaf  placed  down  in  a 
clean  stone  jar  in  a  nest  of  clover  blossoms; 
the  butter  is  put  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth 
and  also  covered  with  clover,  and  the  jar 
covered  over  night.  The  next  morning  the 
bread  and  butter  will  have  the  flavor  of 
clover. 

Rose  Sandwiches 

In  making  rose  sandwiches  cover  the 
bread  and  butter  with  rose  leaves  over  night. 
Put  a  few  rose  petals  between  the  slices  when 
making  the  sandwiches. 


76  MRS,  RORER'S  SANDWICHES 

Nasturtium  Sandwiches 

Cover  the  bread  and  butter  with  nastur- 
tium flowers  over  night.  In  making  the 
sandwiches  place  at  each  corner  of  the  slice 
a  flower,  so  that  in  cutting  from  corner  to 
corner  you  have  a  little  triangular  sandwich 
holding  a  nasturtium  flower  uncut. 

Violet  Sandwiches 

These  are  made  the  same,  covering  the 
slice  of  bread  and  butter  with  the  petals  of 
the  violet. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES 


INDEX 


Afternoon  Teas,  61 

Anchovy  Canapes,  63 

and  Egg  Sandwiches,  14 
Sandwiches,  13 


Beef,  Corned,  Sandwiches,  53 
Deviled,   Sandwiches,    52 
English  Salt,  Sandwiches,  54 
Plain   Corned,  Sandwiches,  53 

Bread,  9 

German  Potato,  11 
Nineteenth  Century,  12 
Nut,  13 
White,  12 


Cake,  Sponge,  Sandwiches,  59 
Camembert  Sandwiches,  28 
Canapes,  63 

a  la  Trinidad,  71 
Anchovy,  63 
Caviar,  63 
Chopped  Tongue,  64 
Deviled  Oyster,  66 
Fish,  65,  67 
Game,  72 
Hot,  67 
Lamb,  73 
Lobster,  69 
Pate  de  Foie  Gras,  66 
Sardine,  65 
Swedish,  64 
Sweetbread,  69 
Caviar  Canapes,  63 

Sandwiches,  No.  1,  15 
No.  2,  15 
Celery   Sandwiches,  16 

Salad  Sandwiches,   16 
Cheese,  Cottage,  Sandwiches,  29 
Deviled,  Sandwiches,  28 
Sandwiches,  No.  1,  23 
No.  2,  23 
No.  3,  24 
Workman's,  24 


Cherry  Sandwiches,  57 
Chicken  and  Almond  Sandwiches,  19 
Lettuce    Sandwiches,    a 

la  Kendall,  19 
Cream  of,  Sandwiches,  34 
Curried,  Sandwiches,  33 
French,  Sandwiches,  39 
Rolled,  Sandwiches,  17 
Chopped  Tongue  Canapes,  64 
Club-House   Sandwiches,  74 
Club,  Mutton,  Sandwiches,  44 
Cold  Beef  Sandwiches,  14 
Corned  Beef  Sandwiches,  53 
Cottage  Cheese  Sandwiches,  29 
Crab  Sandwiches,  33 
Cream  of  Chicken  Sandwiches,  34 
Creole  Sandwiches,  26 
Cucumber  Sandwiches,  30 
Curried  Chicken  Sandwiches,  33 
Egg»  Sandwiches,  32 
Oyster  Sandwiches,  31 
Sardine  Sandwiches,  32 
Curry  Sandwiches,  27 


Deviled  Beef  Sandwiches,  52 

Cheese  Sandwiches,  28 
Oyster  Canapes,  66 
Sandwiches,  35 
Dressing,  Sandwich,  51 


East  Indian  Lentil  Sandwiches,  55 

Egg,  Curried,  Sandwiches,  32 
Farmer's,  Sandwiches,  52 
Sandwiches,  No.  1,  35 
No.  2,  36 
English  Mutton  Sandwiches,  45 

Salt-Beef  Sandwiches,  54 


Farmer's  Egg  Sandwiches,  52 

Sandwiches,  51 
Fig  Sandwiches,  58 
Filipino  Sandwiches,  56 


INDEX 


Fish  Canapes,  65,  67 

Salad  Sandwiches,  48 
Sandwiches,  36 
Flaked   Fish    Sandwiches,  36 
French  Chicken  Sandwiches,  39 
Fresh  Fruit  Sandwiches,  60 
Fruit  and  Nut  Sandwiches,  58 
Fresh,  Sandwiches,  60 
Grape,   Sandwiches,  62 


Game  Canapes,  72 

Sandwiches,  39 
German  Sandwiches,  25,  40 

Potato  Bread,  11 
Ginger  Sandwiches,  62 
Grape   Fruit  Sandwiches,  62 


Ham  Sandwiches,  40 

Honolulu  Sandwiches,  25 
Hot  Canapes,  67 


Indian  Sandwiches,  41 


Lamb  Canapes,  73 

Spring,  Sandwiches,  45 
Lentil,  East  Indian,   Sandwiches,  55 
Lettuce  Sandwiches,  41 
Lobster  Canapes,  69 

Salad  Sandwiches,  43 

Sandwiches,  42 


Marmalade,  Orange,  Sandwiches,  59 
Mutton,  English,  Sandwiches,  45 

Club  Sandwiches,  44 

Sandwiches,  43 
My  Favorite,  26 


Nasturtium  Sandwiches,  76 

Ninenteenth   Century   Bread,  12 
Nut  and  Apple  Sandwiches,  61 

Bread,  13 

Butter  Sandwiches,  56 


Orange  Marmalade  Sandwiches,  59 

Oyster,   Curried,   Sandwiches,  31 
Deviled,  Canapes,  66 


Pate  de  Pole  Gras  Canapes,  66 

Picnic  Sandwiches,  46 

Plain   Corned   Beef  Sandwiches,   53 

Potato  Sandwiches,  47 

Princess  Sandwiches,  20 


Raisin  Sandwiches,  60 

Rolled     Bread    and    Butter     Sand- 
wiches, 17 

Chicken  Sandwiches,  17 
Roquefort  Sandwiches,  28 
Rose  Sandwiches,  75 


Salad,  Celery,  Sandwiches,  16 
Fish,  Sandwiches,  48 
Lobster,  Sandwiches,  43 
Sandwiches,  47 
Sardine,  Sandwiches,  48 
Salmon  Sandwiches,  37 
Salt,  Cucumber  Sandwiches,  29 
Sandwich   Dressing,  51 
Sandwiches,  7 

a  la  Bernhardt,  55 
Rorer,  18 
Stanley,  54 
Anchovy,  13 

and  Egg,  14 
Camembert,  28 
Caviar,  No.  1,  15 
No.  2,  15 
Celery,  16 

Salad,  16 
Cheese,  No.  1,  23 
No.  2,  23 
No.  3,  24 

Chicken  and  Almond,  19 
Lettuce,  a  la 
Kendall,  19 
Club-House,  74 
Cold   Beef,  14 
Corned  Beef,  53 
Cottage  Cheese,  29 
Crab,  33 

Cream  of  Chicken,  34 
Creole,  26 
Cucumber,  30 
Curried  Chicken,  33 
Egg,  32 
Oyster,  31 
Sardine,  32 
Curry,  27 


86 


MRS.    RORER  S    SANDWICHES 


Sandwiches,  Deviled,  35 

Beef,  52 

Cheese,  28 

East  Indian  Lentil,  55 
Eg,g,  No.  1,  35 
No.  2,  36 
English  Mutton,  45 

Salt-Beef,  54 
Farmer's,  51 

Egg,  52 
Filipino,   56 
Fish,  36 

Salad,  48 
Flaked  Fish,  36 
French  Chicken,  39 
Game,  39 
German,  25,  40 
Ham,  40 
Honolulu,  25 
Indian,   41 
Lettuce,  41 
Lobster,   42 

Salad,  43 
Mutton,  43 

Club,  44 
My  Favorite,  26 
Nut-Butter,  56 
Picnic,  46 

Plain  Corned  Beef,  53 
Potato,  47 
Princess,  20 

Rolled    Bread    and   But- 
ter, 17 

Chicken,  17 
Roquefort,   28 
Salad,     47 
Salmon,  37 
Salt- Cucumber,  29 
Sardine,  49 

Salad,  48 
Scented,  75 
Spanish.  37 
Spring  Lamb,  45 
Swedish,  38 
Sweet,  57 
Swiss,  49 
Tea  Biscuit,  21 
To  Keep,  9 
Tongue,  50 


Sandwiches,  Turkish,  45 
Windsor,  20 
Workman's  Cheese,  24 
Sardine  Canapes,  65 

Curried,  Sandwiches,  32 
Salad  Sandwiches,  48 
Sandwiches,  49 
Scented  Sandwiches,  75 
Nasturtium,  76 
Rose,  75 
Violet,  76 

Spanish  Sandwiches,  37 
Sponge  Cake  Sandwiches,  59 
Spring  Lamb   Sandwiches,  45 
Swedish  Canapes,  64 

Sandwiches,  38 
Sweetbread  Canapes,  70 
Sweet  Sandwiches,  57 

Afternoon  Teas,  61 
Cherry,  57 
Fig,  58 

Fresh  Fruit,  60 
Fruit  and  Nut,  58 
Ginger,  62 
Grape  Fruit,  62 
Nut  and  Apple,  61 
Orange   Marmalade,  69 
Raisin,  60 
Sponge  Cake,  59 
Swiss  Sandwiches,  49 


Tea  Biscuit  Sandwiches,  21 

To  Keep  Sandwiches,  9 
Tongue,   Chopped,  Canapes,  64 

Sandwiches,  50 
Turkish  Sandwiches,  45 


Violet  Sandwiches,  76 


White  Bread,  12 

Windsor  Sandwiches,  20 
Workman's  Cheese  Sandwiches,  2-1 


Yeast,  10 


SOME  OTHER  BOOKS 
Published  by 

Arnold  and  Company 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
NEW  Cook  Book 

A  big  book  of  731  pages,  abundantly  illustrated.  Its 
bigness  is  no  criterion  of  its  goodness.  The  fact  that 
it  is  the  best  work  of  the  best  years  of  Mrs.  Rorer's 
life ;  that  it  is  a  complete  new  book  telling  of  the  things 
one  needs  to  know  about  cooking,  living,  health,  and 
the  easiest  and  best  way  of  housekeeping — these  are 
what  make  for  goodness,  and  place  this  book  far  in 
advance  of  any  other  of  a  like  nature. 

The  New  Cook  Book  covers  all  departments  of 
cookery.  A  masterly  exposition  of  each  subject  is 
given,  followed  by  recipes  for  the  proper  preparation, 
cooking  and  serving  of  the  various  kinds  of  foods. 
There  are  over  1500  recipes  in  the  book. 

The  illustrations  are  an  important  feature.  One 
set  of  pictures  shows  the  proper  dressing  of  the  table 
during  a  course  dinner.  Then  there  is  a  complete  set 
showing  the  method  of  carving  meats,  poultry,  game, 
etc.;  and  many  others  illustrating  special  features  of 
the  book. 

Large  12mo,  731  pages,  profusely  and  beautifully 

illustrated ;  bound  in  cloth,  $2.00  net ; 

by  mail,  $2.20 


Mrs.  Rorer's          f 
Philadelphia  Cook  Book 

This  is  the  standard  book  of  Mrs.  Rorer's  that  has 
been  before  the  public  for  a  number  of  years.  It  has 
no  connection  with  Mrs.  Rorer's  New  Cook  Book. 
Each  book  is  independent  of  the  other,  and  the  posses- 
sion of  one  forms  no  reason  for  doing  without  the 
other. 

The  Philadelphia  Cook  Book  is  full  of  good  things, 
and,  like  all  of  Mrs.  Rorer's  works,  is  eminently  prac- 
tical. It  is  a  standard  of  excellence,  in  that  it  is 
full  of  the  brightest  things  in  cookery;  the  recipes 
are  absolutely  reliable,  and  the  general  instructions 
to  housekeepers  of  the  most  helpful  and  necessary 
character. 

Nearly  all  cook  books  assume  some  knowledge  and 
experience  on  the  part  of  those  who  use  them,  but  Mrs. 
Rorer  makes  her  explanations  so  clear,  and  gives  such 
definite  directions,  as  to  quantities,  that  the  beginner 
has  no  difficulty  in  successfully  accomplishing  all  the 
book  calls  for.  Then  there  are  frequent  hints  as  to 
the  proper  use  of  left-overs,  how  to  market,  and,  in 
many  ways,  information  is  given  that  is  alike  useful  to 
the  experienced  cook  as  to  the  tyro  in  matters  culinary. 

The  book  is  full  of  choice  recipes,  every  one  of 
which  has  been  successfully  tested  by  Mrs.  Rorer  and 
found  to  come  out  right.  This  alone  is  of  incalculable 
benefit  and  ought  to  commend  the  book  to  the  favorable 
consideration  of  every  housekeeper. 

The  use  of  this  book  in  the  home  means  better 
health,  better  living,  economy  in  the  use  of  food,  and 
a  consequent  saving  in  dollars  and  cents. 

12mo,  nearly  600   pages,  with  portrait  of  author; 
bound  in  cloth,  $1.00  net;  by  mail,  $1.15 


Mrs.  Rarer  ^s 

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat 
Substitutes 

This  book  has  a  twofold  object: 

1.  To  show  the  value  of  vegetables  in  their  relation  to 
diet  and  health,  how  to  prepare,  cook  and  serve 
them,  what  to  eat  under  certain  conditions  of  health, 
and  thus  have  them  perform  their  proper  work. 

2.  To  give  to  the  prudent  housewife  a  knowledge  of 
combinations  of  foods  in  the  shape  of  toothsome 
recipes  to  take  the  place  of  meat,  or  as  we  call 
them — Meat  Substitutes. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  we  all  know  too  little 
about  the  value  of  vegetables  as  food.  We  eat  them 
because  they  are  palatable,  not  realizing  their  immense 
importance  as  body  builders.  Here  they  are  classified, 
and  thus  made  to  give  us  a  right  idea  of  their  use. 

Then  as  to  Meat  Substitutes.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  be  a  vegetarian  to  desire  a  change  from  a  meat  diet. 
There  are  health  reasons  often  demanding  abstention 
from  meats;  or  economy  may  be  an  impelling  motive; 
or  a  desire  for  change  and  variety  in  the  daily  bill  of 
fare  may  be  warrant  enough.  However  we  look  at  it 
here  is  the  wonder  book  to  point  the  way  to  better  and 
healthier  living. 

There  is  an  abundance  of  the  choicest  and  most 
palatable  recipes,  and  they  are  given  in  such  a  manner, 
that  if  the  directions  are  followed,  the  results  are  sure. 
You  cannot  make  mistakes. 

12mo,  cloth,  $1.50  net;  by  mail,  $1.65 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
Every  Day  Menu  Book 

In  the  course  of  her  teaching  and  editorial  work, 
there  have  come  to  Mrs.  Rorer  frequent  requests  for 
a  book  that  will  provide  a  daily  bill  of  fare,  one  that 
will  be  at  once  rational,  its  directions  easy  of  accom- 
plishment, and  give  an  excellent  variety.  Hence  this 
Menu  Book. 

It  contains  a  menu  for  every  meal  in  the  year, 
systematically  arranged  by  months  and  days ;  menus  for 
special  occasions,  such  as  holidays,  weddings,  luncheons, 
teas,  etc.;  illustrations  of  decorated  tables  for  various 
social  events,  with  appropriate  menus;  menus  arranged 
for  the  seasons  both  as  to  food  and  decorations;  a 
department  of  menus  without  meats.  A  fine  volume 
that  ought  to  commend  itself  to  every  housekeeper. 

12 mo,  300  pages,  handsomely  illustrated;  bound  in 
cloth  $1.50  net;  by  mail,  $1.65 

Mrs.  Rorer's 
Cakes,  Icings  and  Fillings 

Every  one  is  interested  in  the  cake  problem.  There 
is  possibly  no  item  in  the  home  bill  of  fare  on  which 
a  woman  prides  herself  as  the  ability  to  make  a  good 
cake.  But  how  to  add  variety  to  the  goodness  ?  Here's 
the  book  to  help.  Contains  a  large  number  of  enticing 
and  valuable  recipes  for  cakes  of  all  sorts  and  condi- 
tions. Some  need  filling,  some  need  icing — well,  here 
you  have  all  the  necessary  information.  Best  of  all, 
there  is  no  fear  as  to  results.  Follow  the  directions 
and  your  cake  is  bound  to  come  out  right. 

1 2mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's 

Canning  and  Preserving 

The  only  book  on  the  subject  worth  the  name.  In 
it  Mrs.  Rorer  discusses  at  length  the  canning  and  pre- 
serving of  fruits  and  vegetables,  with  the  kindred 
subjects  of  marmalades,  butters,  fruit  jellies  and  syrups, 
drying  and  pickling.  The  recipes  are  clearly  and  simply 
given.  In  the  new  edition  now  presented,  the  author 
has  brought  the  book  up  to  date,  and  has  included 
many  new,  rare  and  original  recipes  that  have  been 
accumulating  since  the  book  was  first  introduced.  It 
has  always  been  a  favorite  book  with  the  public,  and 
now  it  will  be  doubly  welcome. 

New  Edition:  revised  and  rewritten,  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

12mo,  cloth,  75  cents  net;  by  mail,  80  cents 

Mrs.  Rorer's 
My  Best  250  Recipes 

It  would  be  strange  indeed  if,  out  of  the  multitude 
of  recipes  Mrs.  Rorer  has  invented  and  used  during 
her  long  career  as  a  teacher,  writer  and  lecturer,  she 
did  not  have  some  that  appealed  to  her  more  strongly 
than  others.  She  has  gathered  these  together,  classi- 
fying them  under  their  different  heads.  There  are  Best 
20  Soups;  Best  20  Fish  Recipes;  Best  20  Meats;  Best 
20  Salads;  Best  20  Desserts;  Best  20  Sauces,  Vegeta- 
bles, Fruit  Preserves,  Luncheon  Dishes,  Ices,  Summer 
Recipes,  Left  Overs,  Game  and  Poultry,  Breads  and 
Biscuits,  etc. 

12mo,  cloth,  75  cents  net;  by  mail,  80  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's  New  Salads 

For  Dinners,  Luncheons,  Suppers  and  Receptions. 
With  a  group  of  ODD  SALADS  and  some  CEYLON  SALADS. 

A  salad  made  from  a  succulent  green  vegetable  and 
French  dressing,  should  be  seen  on  the  dinner  table 
in  every  well-regulated  household  three  hundred  and 
sixty-five  times  a  year.  These  green  vegetables  contain 
the  salts  necessary  to  the  well  being  of  our  blood;  the 
oil  is  an  easily-digested  form  of  fatty  matter ;  the  lemon 
juice  gives  us  sufficient  acid;  therefore  simple  salads 
are  exceedingly  wholesome. 

During  the  summer,  the  dinner  salad  may  be  com- 
posed of  any  well-cooked  green  vegetable,  served  with 
a  French  dressing;  string  beans,  cauliflower,  a  mixture 
of  peas,  turnips,  carrots  and  new  beets,  boiled  radishes, 
cucumbers,  tomatoes,  uncooked  cabbage,  and  cooked 
spinach.  In  the  winter  serve  celery,  lettuce,  endive  and 
chicory. 

New  Edition  :  revised  and  rewritten,  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

12mo,  cloth,  75  cents  net;  by  mail,  80  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's  Dainties 

Possibly  no  part  of  the  daily  bill  of  fare  so  taxes 
the  ingenuity  of  the  housewife  as  the  dessert,  that  final 
touch  to  the  meal  that  lingers  in  the  palate  like  a  bene- 
diction. We  tire  of  constant  repetitions  of  familiar 
things.  We  want  variety.  Why  not  have  it  when 
there  are  so  many  ways  and  means  of  gratifying  our 
tastes.  Mrs.  Rorer  has  given  here  a  number  of  choice 
things  covering  quite  a  range  of  possibilities. 

New  Edition:  revised  and  rewritten,  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

12mo,  cloth,  75  cents  net;  by  mail,  80  cents 


Mrs.  Rarer 's 
Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs 

Did  you  ever  reflect  what  an  important  part  eggs 
play  in  our  domestic  economy  ?  When  from  any  reason 
other  things  fail,  the  perplexed  housewife  knows  she 
can  do  something  to  tide  over  her  difficulties  by  the 
use  of  eggs.  But  how  many  know  the  great  possibilities 
that  lie  in  an  egg — the  very  many  ways  of  cooking  and 
preparing  them  for  the  table?  To  many,  boiled,  fried, 
poached  and  scrambled  form  the  limit  of  their  knowl- 
edge. But  get  this  book  and  you'll  be  surprised  at  the 
feast  in  store  for  you.  You'll  also  find  recipes  for 
delectable  Egg  Sauces. 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 

Mrs.  Rorer's 

Made-Over  Dishes 

How  to  transform  the  left  overs  into  palatable  and 
wholesome    dishes.      With    many    new    and    valuable 
recipes. 
We  quote  from  the  author's  introduction: 

"Economical  marketing  does  not  mean  the  purchase 
of  inferior  articles  at  a  cheap  price,  but  of  a  small 
quantity  of  the  best  materials  found  in  the  market; 
these  materials  to  be  wisely  and  economically  used. 
Small  quantity  and  no  waste,  just  enough  and  not  a 
piece  too  much,  is  a  good  rule  to  remember.  In  roasts 
and  steaks,  however,  there  will  be,  in  spite  of  careful 
buying,  bits  left  over,  that  if  economically  used,  may 
be  converted  into  palatable,  sightly  and  wholesome 
dishes  for  the  next  day's  lunch  or  supper. 

12 mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net;  by  mail,  55  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish 

Of  all  the  useful  and  dependable  articles  of  food, 
commend  us  to  the  Sandwich.  Nothing  in  the  whole 
range  of  foods  presents  such  a  wonderful  opportunity 
for  variety.  The  sandwich  is  the  handy  thing  for 
suppers,  teas,  social  calls,  school  lunch  baskets,  picnics — 
but  where  can  you  not  use  it  to  advantage  and  enjoy- 
ment ?  In  this  book  Mrs.  Rorer  has  given  a  lot  of  new, 
original  recipes,  with  some  very  odd  ones.  She  has 
drawn  upon  her  wonderful  knowledge  and  inventive 
faculty  and  the  result  is  a  bewildering  array  of  delect- 
able sandwiches. 

New  Edition  :  revised  and  rewritten,  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 

Mrs.  Rorer's  Sandwiches 

It  is  wonderful  the  amount  of  pleasure  and  satis- 
faction that  can  be  had  with  a  Chafing  Dish.  Few 
people  know  how  to  use  one  successfully,  although  the 
art  is  easily  acquired.  This  book,  for  instance,  gives 
the  proper  directions  for  making  hosts  of  good  things, 
and  if  they  are  followed  implicitly,  the  most  inexperi- 
enced person  can  be  sure  of  results.  It  is  a  handy 
thing  in  an  emergency,  and  it  forms  a  delightful  adjunct 
to  a  supper  or  dinner.  Guests  are  always  interested  in 
watching  the  evolution  of  some  delectable  dish,  and 
the  head  of  the  table  has  a  chance  to  show  his  or 
her  skill. 

New  Edition :  revised  and  rewritten,  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
Hot  Weather  Dishes 

Its  name  tells  the  whole  story.  It  is  the  only  book 
of  the  kind  published.  Hot  weather  seems  to  suspend 
the  inventive  faculty  of  even  the  best  housekeepers, 
and  at  a  season  when  the  appetite  needs  every  help 
and  encouragement,  this  book  will  be  found  of  the 
greatest  use. 

1 2mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 

Mrs.  Rorer's 

Home  Candy  Making 

A  veritable  book  of  sweets,  full  of  choice  recipes, 
with  complete  instructions  for  making  the  many  deli- 
cacies that  delight  both  young  and  old.  It  is  the  result 
of  careful  practice  in  teaching  beginners  how  to  make 
attractive  and  wholesome  varieties  of  home-made 
candies.  The  excellence  of  the  recipes  consists  in  their 
simplicity  and  faithfulness  to  details. 

1 2mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 

Mrs.  Rorer's 
Bread  and  Bread-Making 

The  object  of  this  book  is  two-fold.  First,  to  give 
in  a  concise  and  easily-managed  form  a  set  of  recipes 
used  in  every  household  every  day.  Secondly,  to  point 
out  the  reasons  why  failures  so  often  occur,  even  with 
perfect  recipes,  and  how  to  guard  against  them. 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's  Quick  Soups 
New  Ways  for  Oysters 

These  two  books  were  written  in  response  to 
requests  for  information  on  the  subjects.  Designed  to 
meet  the  special  wants  of  a  numerous  class  of  house- 
keepers who  are  given  to  entertaining,  and  are  so  often 
at  loss  to  know  what  and  how  to  prepare  for  their 
guests.  The  housekeeper  will  find  them  very  handy 

24mo,  cloth,  25  cents  net ;  by  mail,  30  cents 

Household  Accounts 

A  simple  method  of  recording  the  daily  expenses 
of  the  family.  The  book  contains  ruled  pages,  syste- 
matically and  simply  divided  into  spaces  in  which  are 
kept  the  purchases  for  each  day  of  milk,  butter,  eggs, 
meat,  groceries,  vegetables,  etc.  The  daily  expenses 
total  up  for  the  months,  and  the  months  for  the  year. 
There  are  other  forms  for  recording  expenses  of  help, 
light,  heat  and  general  household  expenditures  in  table 
and  bed  linens,  china  and  kitchen  utensils,  etc. 

Manilla  boards,  25  cents  net ;  by  mail  30  cents 

Cakes,  Cake  Decorations 
and  Desserts 

By  CHARLES  H.  KING.  The  author  tells  his  meth- 
ods in  his  own  practical  way,  and  gives  abundant 
recipes.  The  book  is  illustrated  by  engravings  of 
numerous  decorated  pieces,  and  has  a  silhouette  chart 

12mo,  cloth,  $1.00  net ;  by  mail,  $1.15 


RETURN 


LIBRARY  USE 


Glannlni  Hal!  .  Tel.  Na  642-4493 


THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  BEFORE  CLOSING  TIME 
ON  LAST  DATE  STAMPED  BELOW 


LD62-10m-4,'72 
(Q1636S10)9412 — A-32 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


z- 


