76  & 

U3 

1830 
GKLlfc 


1  f 


an 


SEVENTY-FIVE 


RECEIPTS 


PASTRY,  CAKES,  AND  SWEETMEATS. 


BY  A  LADY  OF  PHILADELPHIA. 

Leslie^    E 

* 

THIRD   EDITION. 


BOSTON : 

MCJTROE   AND    FRANCIS,   NO.  128   WASHINGTON-STRKKTJ 
C.   8.    FRANCIS,   252   BROADWAY,   NEW-YORK. 

18  30. 


FAMILY  BOOKS. 

At  the  Bookstore  of  the  publishers  of  this  work  may  be  found  the 
following  excellent  books  for  families. 

The  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY,  adapted  to  the  business  of 
Every-Day  Life.  By  Mrs.  DALGAIKNS.  Containing  1419  of  the 
most  useful  receipts.  9 

"  Mrs.  Dalgairns  is  more  practical,  more  varied,  and  more  suited  to 
what  we  may  call  the  practical  readers  of  such  works,  than  either  Dr. 
Kitchener's  Oracle,  or  our  friend  of  the  Cleikum  Inn.  It  is  this  char- 
acter of  utility  which  appears  to  us  to  constitute  its  value,  and  we  have 
no  doubt  will  prove  its  passport  to  extensive  circulation.  One  decided 
improvement  on  former  works  has  been  adopted  by  Mrs.  Dalgairns  : 
it  consists  in  prefixing  to  each  chapter  of  her  work  the  useful  prelimin- 
ary remarks  relative  to  the  subject  of  the  chapter,  instead  of  giving  all 
these  remarks  in  the  shape  of  an  introduction  at  the  beginning  of  the 
book." — Scots  Times. 

"  V$e  must  say  Mrs.  Dalgairns  has  succeeded  in  combining  two  things, 
which  we  never  before  found  united  in  any  work  of  this  description,— 
we  mean  the  pleasures  of  sense,  with  ajust  and  proper  regard  to  econ- 
omy. Extravagance  is  the  rock  upon  which  all  her  predecessors  have 
split.  The  great  object  of  the  author  has  been  to  make  her  boolj  exten- 
sively useful  5  and  we  think  she  has  completely  succeeded.  In  short, 
the  '  Practice  of  Cookery '  is  a  book  worthy  of  all  acceptation;  and  we 
recommend  it  accordingly  to  every  one  who  wishes  to  dine  comforta- 
bly at  a  moderate  cost." — Caledonian. 

At  the  same  place  may  be  had  all  the  recent  publications  on  Cook- 
ery and  family  economy — among  these  are  the  Cook's  Oracle,  Fru- 
gal Housewife,"  House-Servant's  Directory,  &c.  &c. 

'  S  ' 

r  *ot* 

DISTRICT   OF   MASSACHUSETTS,   TO    WIT  : 

j^District  Clerk's  Office. 

BE  IT  REMEMBERED,  that  on  the  ninth  da^of  March,  A.  D.  1827, 
in  the  fifty-first  year  of  the  Independence  of  the  United  Stales  of  America, 
MUNROE  AND  FRANCIS,  of  the  said  District,  have  deposited  in  this 
Office  the  title  of  a  book,  the  right  whereof  they  claim  as  proprietors,  in  the 
words  following,  to  wit  : 

"  Seventy-Five  Receipts  for  Pastry,  Cakes,  and  Sweetmeats.  By  a  Lady 
of  Philadelphia." 

In  conformity  to  the  act  of  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  entitled, 
"An  act  for  the  encouragement  of  learning,  by  securing  the  copies  of  maps, 
charts  and  books,  to  the  authors  and  proprietors  of  such  copies,  during  the 
times  therein  mentioned:"  and  also  to  an  act,  entitled,  "An  act  supplemen- 
tary to  an  act,  entitled  an  act  for  the  encouragement  of  learning,  by  securing 
the  copies  of  maps,  charts,  and  books,  to  the  authors  and  proprietors  of  such 
copies  during  tlie  times  therein  mentioned ;  and  extending  the  benefits  thereof 
to  the  arts  of  designing,  engraving,  and  etching  historical  and  other  prints." 
JOHN  W.  DAVIS,  Clerk  of  the  District  of  Massachusetts. 


PREFACE. 


THE  following  Receipts  for  Pastry,  Cakes, 
and  Sweetmeats,  are  original,  and  have 
been  used  by  the  author  and  many  of  her 
friends  with  uniform  success.  They  are 
drawn  up  in  a  style  so  plain  and  minute,  as 
to  be  perfectly  intelligible  to  servants,  and 
persons  of  the  most  moderate  capacity.  All 
the  ingredients,  with  their  proper  quantities, 
are  enumerated  in  a  list  at  the  head  of  each 
receipt,  a  plan  which  will  greatly  facilitate 
the  business  of  procuring  and  preparing  the 
requisite  articles. 

There  is  frequently  much  difficulty  in  fol- 
lowing directions  in  English  and  French 
Cookery  Books,  not  only  from  their  want  of 
explicitness,  but  from  the  difference  in  the 
fuel,  fire-places,  and  cooking  utensils,  gener- 
ally used  in  Europe  and  America  ;  and  many 
of  the  European  receipts  are  so  complicated 
and  laborious,  that  our  female  cooks  'are 
afraid  to  undertake  the  arduous  task  of  ma- 
king any  thing  from  them. 

M368Q87 


The  receipts  in  this  little  book  are,  in 
every  sense  of  the  word,  American  ;  but  the 
writer  flatters  herself  that  (if  exactly  follow- 
ed) the  articles  produced  from  them  will  not 
be  found  inferior  to  any  of  a  similar  descrip- 
tion made  in  the  European  manner.  Expe- 
rience has  proved,  that  pastry,  cakes,  &c. 
prepared  precisely  according  to  these  direc- 
tions will  not  fail  to  be  excellent :  but  where 
economy  is  expedient,  a  portion  of  the  sea- 
soning, that  is,  the  spice,  wine,  brandy,  rose- 
water,  essence  of  lemon,  &.c.  may  be  omit- 
ted without  any  essential  deviation  of  fla- 
vour, or  difference  of  appearance  ;  retain- 
ing, however,  the  given  proportions  of  eggs, 
butter,  sugar,  and  flour. 

But  if  done  at  home,  and  by  a  person 
that  can  be  trusted,  it  will  be  proved,  on 
trial,  that  any  of  these  articles  may  be  made 
in  the  best  and  most  liberal  manner  at  one 
half  of  the  cost  of  the  same  articles  suppli- 
ed by  a  confectioner.  Arid  they  will  be 
found  particularly  useful  to  families  that  live 
in  the  country,  or  in  small  towns,  where  no- 
thing of  the  kind  is  to  be  purchased. 

January  15JA,  1828, 


CONTENTS. 


PART    THE    FIRST. 

Preliminary  remarks                                                         -  7 

Puff  Paste                       -  9 

Common  Paste                -----  12 

Mince  Pies          ......  13 

Plum  Pudding  14 

Lemon  Pudding                                         ...  15 

Orange  Pudding  17 

Cocoa  Nut  Pudding         -                       '-            -            -  18 

Almond  Pudding  19 

A  Cheesecake                               ....  19 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding  21 

Pumpkin  Pudding            -----  21 

Gooseberry  Pudding                    -            -            -            -  22 

Baked  Apple  Pudding                ....  23 

Fruit  Pies                        -            ....  23 

Oyster  Pie                                   ....  25 

Beef  Steak  Pie               -            ...            -            .  26 

Indian  Pudding                .....  37 

Batter  Pudding               -            -            .            .            .  28 

Bread  Pudding               ...                        -  29 

Rice  Pudding                  .....  59 

1* 


VI  CONTENTS. 

Boston  Pudding  -----  30 

Fritters  -            -            -            .            .  31 

Fine  Custards  -            -            -            -  31 

Plain  Custards  -----  32 

Rice  Custards  -            -            -            -  33 

Cold  Custards  ....  34 

Curds  and  Whey  .....  34 

A  Trifle  '    .            .  35 

Whipt  Cream  -             -             -  36 

Floating  Island  ...  37 

Ice  Cream  -            -            -  37 

Calf 's-feet  Jelly  .  33 

Blanc-mange  ....  40 


PART  THE  SECOND. 

General  directions  -                                     -            45 

Queen  Cake  .            47 

Pound  Cake  -            -            48 

Black  Cake,  or  Plum  Cake  -           -           50 

Sponge  Cake  -            51 

Almond  Cake                   -  -                        -            52 

French  Almond  Cake  54 

Maccaroons                      ....  55 

A pees                               -  56 

Jumbles                            -  -                                                 57 

Kisses                               -  58 

Spanish  Bunns  -                                      58 

Rusk  60 

Indian  Pound  Cake  61 

Cup  Cake  01 

Loaf  Cake  -            62 

Sugar  Biscuits                  -  * .-                                                   62 

Milk  Biscuits  63 

Butter  Biscuits  64 

Gingerbread  Nuts        -  VJJ&:     ,     '                                      65 

Common  Gingerbread  »           -                       <g£.       66 

Lafayette  Gingerbread  67 


CONTENTS.  Vll 

A  Dover  Cake 

Crullers 

Dough  Nuts 

Waffles  -  -  TO 

Soft  Muffins 

Indian  Batter  Cakes 

Flannel  Cakes 

Rolls  73 


PART  THE  THIRD. 

General  directions  -                                                 77 

Apple  Jelly  78 

Red  Currant  Jelly  -                                      -78 

Black  Currant  Jelly        -  ^-            79 

Gooseberry  Jelly             .....  80 

Grape  Jelly                     .....  80 

Peach  Jelly  -            -                                      81 

Preserved  Quinces         '-  -                                      81 

Preserved  Pippins           -  -            -            -            -            82 

Preserved  Peaches  •                                      33 

Preserved  Crab- Apples  -                                      -             84 

Preserved  Plums  84 

Preserved  Strawberries  85 

Preserved  Cranberries  ....            85 

Preserved  Pumpkin  -            -            -            87 

Preserved  Prae-Apple  88 

Raspberry  Jam  88 


APPENDIX. 

"^•F"*^^     •% 

Miscellaneous  Receipts  of  dishes  in  use  at  Supper  Parties 


WEIGHT  AND  MEASURES. 


As  all  families  are  not  provided  with  scales  and 
weights,  referring  to  the  ingredients  generally  used  in 
cakes  and  pastry,  we  subjoin  a  list  of  weights  and 


measures. 


WEIGHT  AND  MEASURE. 


Wheat  flour 
Indian  meal 
Butter — when  soft 
Loaf-sugar,  b^pken 
White  sugar,  powdered 
Best  brown  sugar 
Eggs          -        -        - 


one  pound  is 

one  pound,  two  ounces,  is 

one  pound  is 

one  pound  is 

one  pound,  one  ounce,  is 

one  pound,  two  ounces,  is 

ten  eggs  are 


one  quart, 
one  quart, 
one  quart, 
one  quart, 
one  quart, 
one  quart, 
one  pound. 


LIQUID   MEASURE. 

Sixteen  large  table-spoonfuls  are  ...  half  a  pint. 

Eight  large  table-spoonfuls  are  one  gill. 

Four  large  table-spoonfuls  are       -        ...  half  a  gill. 


A  common-sized  tumbler  holds 
A  common-sized  wine-glass 


half  a  pint, 
half  a  gill. 


Allowing  for  accidental  differences  in  the  quality, 
freshness,  dryness,  and  moisture  of  the  articles,  we 
believe  this  «omparison  between  weight  and  measure 
to  be  as  nearly  correct  as  possible. 


PART  -THE    FIRST/ 


PASTRY. 


PRELIMINARY  REMARKS. 

IN  making  pastry  or  cakes,  it  is  best  to  begin  by 
weighing  out  the  ingredients,  sifting  the  flour, 
pounding  and  sifting  the  sugar  and  spice,  washing 
the  butter,  and  preparing  the  fruit. 

Sugar  can  be  powdered  by  pounding  it  in  a  large 
mortar,  or  by  rolling  it  on  a  paste-board  with  a 
rolling-pin.  It  should  be  made  very  fine  and  al- 
ways sifted. 

All  sorts  of  spice  should  be  pounded  in  a  mortar, 
except  nutmeg,  which  it  is  better  to  grate.  If  spice 
is  wanted  in  large  quantities,  it  may  be  ground  in  a 
mill. 

The  butter  should  always  be  fresh  and  very  good. 
Wash  it  in  cold  water  before  you  use  it,  and  then 
make  it  up  with  your  hands  into  hard  lumps,  squeez- 
ing the  water  well  out. 

If  the  butter  and  sugar  are  to  be  stirred  togeth- 
er, always  do  that  before  the  eggs  are  beaten,  as, 
(unless  they  are  kept  too  warm)  the  butter  and 
sugar  will  not  be  injured  by  standing  awhile.  For 
stirring  them,  nothing  is  so  convenient  as  a  round 
hickory  stick  about  a  foot  and  a  half  long,  and 
somewhat  flattened  at  one  end. 


8  PASTRY. 

The  eggs  should  not  be  beaten  till  after  all  the 
other  ingredients  are  ready,  as  they  will  fall  very 
soon.  If  the  whites  and  yolks  are  to  be  beaten 
separately,  do  the  whites  first,  as  they  will  stand 
longer. 

Eggs  should  be  beaten  in  a  broad  shallow  pan, 
spreading  wtde  at  the  top.  Butter  and  sugar  should 
be  stirred  in  a  deep  pan  with  straight  sides. 

Break  every  egg  by  itself,  in  a  saucer,  before 
you  put  it  into  the  pan,  that  in  case  there  should  be 
any  bad  ones,  they  may  not  spoil  the  others. 

Eggs  are  beaten  most  expeditiously  with  rods. 
A  small  quantity  of  white  of  egg  may  be  beaten 
with  a  knife,  or  a  three-pronged  fork. 


There  can  be  no  positive  rules  as  to  the  exact 
time  of  baking  each  article.  Skill  in  baking  is  the 
result  of  practice,  attention,  and  experience.  Much, 
of  course,  depends  on  the  state  of  the  fire,  and  on 
the  size  of  the  things  to  be  baked,  and  something 
on  the  thickness  of  the  pans  or  dishes. 

If  you  bake  in  a  stove,  put  some  bricks  in  the 
oven  part  to  set  the  pans  or  plates  on,  and  to  tem- 
per the  heat  at  the  bottom.  Large  sheets  of  iron, 
without  sides,  will  be  found  very  useful  for  small 
cakes,  and  to  put  under  the  pans  or  plates. 


PASTRY, 


PUFF    PASTE*    v 


Half  a  pound  and  two  ounces  of  sifted  flour. 
Half  a  pound  of  the  best  fresh  butter— washed. 
A  little  cold  water. 

This  will  make  puff-paste  for  two  Puddings,  or  for  one   soup-plate 
Pie,  or  for  four  small  Shells. 

Weigh  half  a  pound  and  two  ounces  of  flour,  and 
sift  it  through  a  hair-sieve  into  a  large  deep  dish. 
Take  out  about  one  fourth  of  the  flour,  and  lay  it 
aside  on  one  corner  of  your  pasteboard,  to  roll  and 
sprinkle  with. 

Wash,  in  cold  water,  half  a  pound  of  the  best 
fresh  butter.  Squeeze  it  hard  with  your  hands,  and 
make  it  up  into  a  round  lump.  Divide  it  in  four 
equal  parts  ;  lay  them  on  one  side  of  your  paste- 
board, and  have  ready  a  glass  of  cold  water. 

Cut  one  of  the  four  pieces  of  butter  into  the 
pan  of  flour.  Cut  it  as  small  as  possible.  Wet 
it  gradually  with  a  very  little  water  (too  much  wa- 
ter will  make  it  tough)  and  mix  it  well  with  the 
point  of  a  large  case-knife.  Do  not  touch  it  with 
your  hands.  When  the  dough  gets  into  a  lump, 
sprinkle  on  the  middle  of  the  board  some  of  the 
flour  that  you  laid  aside,  and  lay  the  dough  upon  it, 
turning  it  out  of  the  pan  with  the  knife. 

Rub  the  rolling-pin  with  flour,  and  sprinkle  a  little 
on  the  lump  of  paste.  Roll  K  out  thin,  quickly, 
and  evenly,  pressing  on  the  rolling-pin  very  lightly. 
Then  take  the  second  of  the  four  pieces  of  butter, 
and,  with  the  point  of  your  knife,  stick  it  in  little 
bits  at  equal  distances  all  over  the  sheet  of  paste. 


10  PASTRY; 

Sprinkle  on  some  flour,  and  fold  up  the  dough. 
Flour  the  paste-board  and  rolling-pin  again  ;  throw 
a  little  flour  on  the  paste  and  roll  it  out  a  second 
time.  Stick  the  third  piece  of  butter  all  over  it  in 
little  bits.  Throw  on  some  flour,  fold  up  the  paste, 
sprinkle  a  little  more  flour  on  the  dough,  and  on 
the  rolling-pin,  and  roll  it  out  a  third  time,  always 
pressing  on  it  lightly.  Stick  it  over  with  the  fourth 
and  last  piece  of  butter.  Throw  on  a  little  more 
flour,  fold  up  the  paste  and  then  roll  it  out  in  a 
large  round  sheet.  Cut  off  the  sides,  so  as  to 
make  the  sheet  of  a  square  form,  and  lay  the  slips 
of  dough  upon  the  square  sheet.  Fold  it  up  with 
the  small  pieces  of  trimmings,  in  the  inside.  Score 
or  notch  it  a  little  with  the  knife  ;  lay  it  on  a  plate 
and  set  it  away  in  a  cool  place,  but  not  where  it 
can  freeze,  as  that  will  make  it  heavy. 

Having  made  the  paste,  prepare  and  mix  your 
pudding  or  pie.  When  the  mixture  is  finished, 
bring  out  your  paste,  flour  the  board  and  rolling- 
pin,  and  roll  it  out  with  a  short  quick  stroke,  and 
pressing  the  rolling-pin  rather  harder  than  while 
you  were  putting  the  butter  in.  If  the  paste  rises 
in  blisters,  it  will  be  light,  unless  spoiled  in  baking. 

Then  cut  the  sheet  in  half,  fold  up  each  piece 
and  roll  them  out  once  more,  separately,  in  round 
sheets  the  size  of  your  plate.  Press  on  rather 
harder,  but  not  too  hard.  Roll  the  sheets  thinnest 
in  the  middle  and  thickest  at  the  edges.  If  intend- 
ed for  puddings,  lay^aem  in  buttered  soup-plates, 
and  trim  them  even*  round  the  edges.  If  the 
edges  do  not  appear  thick  enough,  you  may  take 
the  trimmings,  put  them  all  together,  roll  them  out, 
and  having  cut  them  in  slips  the  breadth  of  the  rim 
of  the  plate*  lay  them  all  round  to  make  the  paste 
thicker  at  the  edges,  joining  them  nicely  and  even- 


PASTRY.  1 1 

ly,  as  every  patch  or  crack  will  appear  distinctly 
when  baked.  Notch  the  rim  handsomely  with  a 
very  sharp  knife.  Fill  the  dish  with  the  mixture 
of  the  pudding,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 
The  paste  should  be  of  a  light  brown  colour.  If 
the  oven  is  too  slow,  it  will  be  soft  and  clammy  ; 
if  too  quick,  it  will  not  have  time  to  rise  as  high 
as  it  ought  to  do. 

In  making  the  best  puff-paste,  try  to  avoid  using 
more  flour  to  sprinkle  and  roll  with,  than  the  small 
portion  which  you  have  laid  aside  for  that  purpose 
at  the  beginning.  If  you  make  the  dough  too 
soft  at  first,  by  using  too  much  water,  it  will  be 
sticky,  and  require  more  flour,  and  will  eventually 
be  tough  when  baked-  Do  not  put  your  hands 
to  it,  as  their  warmth  will  injure  it.  Use  the  knife 
instead.  Always  roll  from  you  rather  than  to 
you,  and  press  lightly  on  the  rolling-pin,  except 
at  the  last. 

It  is  difficult  to  make  puff-paste  in  the  summer, 
unless  in  a  cellar,  or  very  cool  room,  and  on  a 
marble  table.  The  butter  should,  if  possible,  be 
washed  the  night  before,  and  kept  covered  with 
ice  till  you  use  it  next  day.  The  water  should 
have  ice  in  it,  and  the  butter  should  be.  iced  as  it 
sets  on  the  paste-board.  After  the  paste  is  mixed, 
it  should  be  put  in  a  covered  dish,  and  set  in  cold 
water  till  you  are  ready  to  give  it  the  last  rolling. 

With  all  these  precautions  to  prevent  its  being 
heavy,  it  will  not  rise  as  well,  or  be  in  any  respect 
as  good  as  in  cold  weather, 


PASTRY. 


COMMON    PASTE   FOR  PIES. 


A  pound  and  a  half  of  sifted  flour. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter— washed. 


will  make  one  large  pie  or  two  small  ones. 


Sift  the  flour  into  a  pan.  Cut  the  butter  into 
two  equal  parts.  Cut  one  half  of  the  butter  into 
the  flour,  and  cut  it  up  as  small  as  possible.  Mix 
it  well  with  the  flour,  wetting  it  gradually  with  a 
little  cold  water. 

Spread  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  take  the 
lump  of  paste  out  of  the  pan,  flour  your  rolling- 
pin,  and  roll  out  the  paste  into  a  large  sheet. 
Then  stick  it  over  with  the  remaining  half  of  the 
butter  in  small  pieces,  and  laid  at  equal  distances. 
Throw  on  a  little  flour,  fold  up  the  sheet  of  paste, 
flour  it  slightly,  and  roll  it  out  again.  Then  fold 
it  up,  and  cut  it  in  half  or  in  four,  according  to  the 
size  of  your  pies.  Roll  it  out  into  round  sheets 
the  size  of  your  pie-plates,  pressing  rather  harder 
on  the  rolling-pin. 

Butter  your  pie-plates,  lay  on  your  under  crust, 
and  trim  the  edge.  Fill  the  dish  with  the  ingredi- 
ents of  which  the  pie  is  composed,  and  lay  on  the 
lid,  in  which  you  must  prick  some  holes,~or  cut  a 
small  slit  in  the  top.  Crimp  the  edges  with  a 
sharp  knife. 

Heap  up  the  ingredients  so  that  the  pie  will  be 
highest  in  the  middle. 

Some  think  it  makes  common  paste  more  crisp 
light,  to  beat  it  tor4  on  bqth  sides  with  the 


PASTRY. 


13 


rolling-pin,  after  you  give  it  the  first  rolling,  when 
all  the  butter  is  in. 

If  the  butter  is  very  fresh,  you  may  mix  with 
the  flour  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 


MINCE  PIES.     J 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  boiled  beef's  heart,  or  fresh  tongue— chop- 
ped when  cold. 

Two  pounds  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine. 
Four  pounds  of  pippin  apples,  chopped. 
Two  pounds  of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped. 
Two  pounds  of  currants,  picked,  washed,  and  dried. 
Two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar. 
One  quart  of  white  wine. 
One  quart  of  brandy. 
One  wine-glass  of  rose-water. 
Two  grated  nutmegs. 
Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon  ~) 

A  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves      >  powdered. 
A  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace       j 
A  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 
Two  large  oranges. 
Half  a  pound  of  citron,  cut  in  slips. 



Parboil  a  beef's  heart,  or  a  fresh  tongue.  After 
you  have  taken  off  the  skin  and  fat,  weigh  a  pound 
and  a  half.  When  it  is  cold,  chop  it  very  fine. 
Take  the  inside  of  the  suet  ;  weigh  two  pounds, 
and  chop  it  as  fine  as  possible.  Mix  the  meat  and 
suet  together,  adding  the  salt.  Pare,  core,  and 
chop  the  apples,and  then  stone  and  chop  the  raisins. 
Having  prepared  the  currants,  add  them  to  the 
other  fruit,  and  mix  the  fruit  with  the  meat  and 
suet.  Put  in  the  sugar  and  spice,  and  the  grated 
peel  and  juice  of  the  oranges.  '  Wet  the  whole 
with  the  rose  water  and  liquor,  and  mix  all  well 
together. 

2* 


14 


PASTRY. 


Make  the  paste,  allowing  for  each  pie,  half  a 
pound  of  butter  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sifted  flour.  Make  it  in  the  same  manner  as  pufF- 
paste,  but  it  will  not  be  quite  so  rich.  Lay  a 
sheet  of  paste  all  over  a  soup-plate.  Fill  it  with 
mince-meat,  laying  slips  of  citron  on  the  top.  Roll 
out  a  sheet  of  paste,  for  the  lid  of  the  pie.  Put  it 
on,  and  crimp  the  edges  with  a  knife.  Prick  holes 
in  the  lid. 

Bake  the  pies  half  an.  hour  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Keep  your  mince  meat  in  a  jar  tightly  covered. 
Set  it  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  and  occasionally  add 
more  brandy  to  it. 


PLUM    PUDDING.       V 

One  pound  of  raisins,  stoned  and  cut  in  half. 

One  pound  of  currants,  picked,  washed,  and  dried. 

One  pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine. 

One  pound  of  grated  stale  bread,  or,  half  a-pound  of  flour  and  half 

a  pound  of  bread. 
Eight  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
A  pint  of  milk. 
A  glass  of  brandy. 
A  glass  of  wine. 
Two  nutmegs,  grated. 

A  table-spoonful  of  mixed  cinnamon  and  mace. 
A  'salt-spoonful  of  salt. 

You  must  prepare  all  your  ingredients  the  day 
before  (except  beating  the  eggs)  that  in  the  morn- 
ing you  may  have  nothing  to  do  but  to  mix  them, 
as  the  pudding  will  require  six  hours  to  boil. 

Beat  the  eggsVery  light,  then  put  to  them  half 
the  milk  and  beat  both  together.  Stir  in  gradual- 
ly the  flour  and  grated  bread.  Next  add  the  su- 
gar by  degrees.  Then  the  suet  and  fruit  alter- 


I 

PASTBY.  15 

nately.  The  fruit  must  be  well  sprinkled  with  flour, 
lest  it  sink  to  the  bottom.  Stir  very  hard.  Then 
add  the  spice  and  liquor,  and  lastly  the  remainder 
of  the  milk.  Stir  the  whole  mixture  very  well  to- 
gether. If  it  is  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  more 
grated  bread  or  flour.  If  there  is  too  much  bread 
or  flour,  the  pudding  will  be  hard  and  heavy. 

Dip  your  pudding-cloth,  in  boiling  water,  shake 
it  out  and  sprinkle  it  slightly  with  flour.  Lay  it  in 
a  pan  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the  cloth.  Tie  it 
up  carefully,  allowing  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell. 

Boil  it  six  hours,  and  turn  it  carefully  out  of  the 
cloth. 

Before  you  send  it  to  table,  have  ready  some 
blanched  sweet  almonds  cut  in  slips,  or  some  slips 
of  citron,  or  both.  Stick  them  all  over  the  outside 
of  the  pudding. 

Eat  it  with  wine,  or  with  a  sauce  made  of  drawn 
butter,  wine  and  nutmeg. 

The  pudding  wilnbe  improved  if  you  add  to  the 
other  ingredients,  the  grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon 
or  orange.*- 


LEMON    PUDDING. 


One  large  lemon,  with  a  smooth  thin  rind. 
Three  eggs. 


A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  —  washed. 
Haifa  glass  of  white  wine  and  brandy,  mixed. 


Five  ounces  of  sifted  flour*,  and  a  quarter  of  f  pound  of  fresh  butter 
for  the  paste. 

Grate   the   yellow  part  of    the  rind  of  a  large 
fresh  lemon.     Then   cut  the    lemon    in    half,  and 


PASTRY. 


squeeze  the  juice  into  the  plate  that  contains  the 
grated  rind,  carefully  taking  out  all  the  seeds.  Mix 
the  juice  and  rind  together. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  su- 
gar into  a  deep  earthen  pan,  and  cut  up  in  it  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  fresh  butter.  If 
the  weather  is  very  cold,  set  the  pan  near  the  fire, 
for  a  few  minutes,  to  soften  the  butter,  but  do  not 
allow  it  to  melt  or  it  will  be  heavy.  Stir  the  butter 
and  sugar  together,  with  a  stick  or  wooden  spoon, 
till  it  is  perfectly  light  and  of  the  consistence  of  cream. 

Put  the  eggs  in  a  shallow  broad  pan,  and  beat 
them  with  mi  egg-beater  or  rods,  till  they  are 
quite  smooth,  and  as  thick  as  a  boiled  custard. 
Then  stir  the  eggs,  gradually,  into  the  pan  of  but- 
ter and  sugar.  Add  the  liquor  and  rose  water  by 
degrees,  and  then  stir  in,  gradually,  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  the  lemon.  Stir  the  whole  very 
hard,  after  all  the  ingredients  aje  in. 

Have  ready  a  puff-paste  made  of  five  ounces  of 
sifted  flour,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  but- 
ter. The  paste  must  be  made  with  as  llWle  water 
as  possible.  Roll  it  out  in  a  circular  sheet,  thin  in 
the  centre,  and  thicker  towards  the  edges,  and  just 
large  enough  to  cover  the  bottom,  sides,  and  edges 
of  a  soup-plate.  Butter  the  soup-plate  very  well, 
and  lay  the  paste  in  it,  making  it  neat  and  even 
round  the  broad  edge  of  the  plate.  With  a  sharp 
knife,  trim  off  the  superfluous  dough,  and  notch  the 
edges.  Put  in  the  mixture  with  a  spoon,  and 
bake  the  pudding  about  half  an  hour,  in  a  moderate 
ovenf  It  should  be  baked  of  a  very  light  brown. 
If  the  oven  is  too  frot,  the  paste  will  not  have  time 
to  rise  well.  If  too  cold,  it  will  be  clammy.  When 
the  pudding  is  cool,  grate  loaf-sugar  over  it. 


PASTRY.  17 


ORANGE   PUDDING. 


One  large  orange,  of  a  deep  colour,  and  smooth  thin  rind. 

One  lime. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

Three  eggs.  ^^ 

Half  a  glass  of  mixed  wine  and  brandy. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  rose-water. 


Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  the  orange  and  lime, 
and  squeeze  the  juice  into  a  saucer  or  soup-plate, 
taking  out  all  the  seeds.  ^ 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream'. 

Beat  the  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  and  then  stir 
them  by  degrees  into  the  pan  of  butter  and  sugar. 
Add,  gradually,  the  liquor  and  rose-water,  and  then 
by  degrees,  the  orange  and  lime.  Stir  all  well  to- 
gether, 

Have  ready  a  sheet  of  puff-paste  made  of  five 
ounces  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter.  Lay  the  paste  in  fc  buttered  soup- 
plate.  Trim  and  notch  the  edges,  and  then  put  in 
the  mixture.  Bake  it  about  half  an  hour,  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Grate  loaf-sugar  over  it,  before  you 
send  it  to  table. 


COCOA-NUT    PUDDING. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cocoa-nut,  grated. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Three  ounces  and  a  half  of  fresh  butter. 

The  i >f  six  eggs. 

Haifa  5.       of  wine  aud  brandy  mixed. 

Half  .ml  ofros^water. 

Break  up  a  cocoa-nut,  and   take  the  thin  brown 
skin    carefully  off,   with   a  knife.     Wash   all   the 


18  PASTRY. 

pieces  in  cold  water,  and  then  wipe  them  dry,  with 
a  clean  towel.  Weigh  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
cocoa-nut,  and  grate  it  very  fine,  into  a  soup-plate. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add 
the  liquor  and  rose-water  gradually  to  them. 

Beat  the  whites  only,  of  six  eggs,  till  they  stand 
alone  on  the  rods ;  .and  then  stir  the  beaten  white 
of  egg,  gradually,  into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Af- 
terwards, sprinkle  in,  by  degrees,  the  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  stjrrjng  hard  all  the  time.  Then  stir  all  very 
well  at  the  last. 

Have  ready  a  puff-paste,  sufficient  to  cover  the 
bottom,  sides,  and  edges  of  a  soup-plate.  Put  in 
the  mixture,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven,  about 
half  an  hour: 

Grate  loaf-sugar  over  it,  when  cqol, 


ALMOND    PUDDING,    V 


Haifa  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  which  will  bef  reduced  to  a  quarter 

of  a  pound,  when  shelled  and  blanched.""  - 
An  ounce  of  blanched  bitter  almonds  or  peach-kernels. 
The  whites  only,  of  six  eggs. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 


A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar, 
Half  a  glass  of  mixed  brandy,  wine,  and  rose' 


and  rose-water. 


Shell  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  pour 
scalding  water  over  them,  which  will  make  tho 
skins  peal  off.  As  they  get  cool,  pour  more  boil- 
ing water,  till  the  almonds  are  all  blanched. 
Blanch  also  the  bitter  almonds.  As  you  blanch 
the  almonds,  throw  them  into  a  bowl  of  cold  wa- 
ter. Then  take  them  out,  one  by  one,  wipe  them 


19 

dry  in  a  clean  towel,  and  lay  them  on  a  plate. 
Pound  them  one  at  a  time  to  a  fine  paste,  in  a  mar- 
ble mortar,  adding,  as  you  pound  them,  a  few  drops 
of  rose-water  to  prevent  their  oiling.  Pound  the 
bitter  and  sweet  almonds  alternately,  that  they  may 
be  well  mixed.  They  must  be  made  perfectly  fine 
and  smooth,  and  are  the  better  for  being  prepared 
the  day  before  they  are  wanted  for  the  pudding. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add  to 
it,  gradually,  the  liquor. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  till  they  stand  alone. 
Stir  the  almonds  and  white  of  eggs,  alternately,  into 
the  butter  and  sugar  ;  and  then  stir  the  whole  well 
together. 

Have  ready  a  puff-paste  sufficient  Tor  a  soup- 
plate.  Batter  the  plate,  lay  on  the  paste,  trim  and 
notch  it.  Then  put  in  the  mixture. 

Bake  it  about  half  an"hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Grate  loaf-sugar  over  it. 


A    CHEESECAKE. 

Four  eggs. 

A  gill  of  milk. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

Two  ounces  of  grated  bread. 

Haifa  glass  of  mixed  brandy  and  wine. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  cinnamon,  aad  nutmeg,  mixed. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants. 


Pick  the  currants  very  clean.  W^tf  them 
through  a  cullender,  wipe  them  in  a  towel,  and 
then  dry  them  on  a  dish  before  the  fire. 

When  dry  take  out  a  few    to   scatter   over  the 

* 


20  PASTRf. 

top  of  the  cheesecake,  lay  them  aside,  and  sprinkle 
the  remainder  of  the  currants   with  the  flour. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Grate  the 
bread,  and  prepare  the  spice.  Beat  the  eggs 
very  light. 

Boil  the  milk.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  to 
it  half  the  beaten  egg,  and  boil  both  together  till  it  be* 
comes  a  curd,  stirring  it  frequently  with  a  knife. 
Then  throw  the  grated  bread  on  the  curd,  and  stir 
all  together.  Then  take  the  milk,  egg,  and  bread 
off  the  fire,  and  stir  it,  gradually,  into  the  butter 
and  sugar.  Next,  stir  in  the  remaining  half  of 
the  egg. 

Add,  by  degrees,  the  liquor  and  spice. 

Lastly,  stir  in,  gradually,  the  currants. 

Have  ready  a  puff-paste,  which  should  be  made 
before  you  prepare  the  cheesecake,  as  the  mixture 
will  become  heavy  by  standing.  Before  you  put 
it  into  the  oven,  scatter  the  remainder  of  the  cur- 
rants over  the  top. 

Bake  it  half  an  hour  in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

Do  not  sugar  the  top. 

You  ma/  bake  it  either  in  a  soup-plate,  or  in 
two  small  tin  patty-pans,  which,  for  cheesecakes, 
should  be  of  a  square  shape.  If  baked  in  square 
patty-pans  leave  at  each  side  a  flap  of  paste  in  the 
shape  of  a  half-circle.  Cut  long  slits  in  these  flaps 
and  turn  them  over,  so  that  they  will  rest  on  the 
itop  of  the  mixture. 

You  can,  if  you  choose,  add  to  the  currants  a 
few  raisins  stoned,  and  cut  in  half. 


PASTRY.  21 


SWEET    POTATO    PUDDING^ 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  boiled  sweet  potato. 

Three  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter, 

A  glass  of  mixed  wine  and  brandy. 

A  half-glass  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  nutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon.         ^ 

Pound  the  spice,  allowing  a  smaller  proportion 
of  mace  than  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

Boil  and  peal  some  sweet  potatoes,  and  when 
they  are  cold,  weigh  a  quarter  of  a  pound.  Mash 
the  sweet  potato  very  smooth,  and  rub  it  through  a 
sieve.  Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the 
butter  and  sugar,  alternately  with  the  sweet  potato. 
Add  by  degrees  the  liquor,  rose-water  and  spice. 
Stir  all  very  hard  together. 

Spread  puff-paste  on  a  soup-plate.  Put  in  the 
mixture,  and  bake  it  about  half  an  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Grate  sugar  over  it. 


PUMPKIN    PUDDING*  V 

Half  a  pound  of  stewed  pumpkin. 

Three  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  or  a  pint  of  cream. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Half  a  glass  of  wine  and  brandy  mixed. 

Half  a  glass  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  tfutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon. 

Stew  some  pumpkin  with  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible.    Drain  it  in  a  cullender,  and  press  it  till  dry. 
When    cold,    weigh     half    a  pound,  and  pass  it 
3 


22  PASTRY. 

through  a  sieve.  Prepare  the  spice.  Stir  togeth- 
er the  sugar,  and  butter,  to  cream,  till  they  are 
perfectly  light.  Add  to  them,  gradually,  the  spice 
and  liquor. 

Beat  three  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into 
the  butter  and  sugar  alternately  with  the  pumpkin. 

Cover  a  soup-plate  with  puff-paste,  and  put  in 
the  mixture.  Bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
half  an  hour. 

Grate  sugar  over  it  when  cool. 


Instead  of  the  butter,  you  may  boil  a  pint  of 
milk  or  cream,  and  when  cold,  stir  into  it  in  turn 
the  sugar,  eggs,  and  pumpkin. 


•'• 

GOOSEBERRY    PUDDING.    V 

i 

A  pint  of  stewed  gooseberries,  with  all  their  juice. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 
Two  ounces  of  fresh  butter. 
Twofcunces  of  grated  bread. 
Three  eggs. 

Stew    the  gooseberries  till    quite   soft.     When 

taiey  are  cold,  mash  them  fine  with  the  back  of  a 

spoon,   and   stir  into  them  two  ounces    of  sugar. 

Take  two  ounces   more  of  sugar,  and  stir  it  to  a 

cream  with  two  ounces  of  butter. 

Grate  very  fine  as  much  stale  bread  as  will 
weigh  two  ounces. 

Beat  three  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  but- 
ter and  sugar,  in  turn  with  the  goosberries  and 
bread. 


PASTRY.  23 


Lay  puff-paste  in  a  soup  plate.     Put  in  the  mix- 
ture, and  bake  it  half  an  hour. 
Do  not  grate  sugar  over  it. 


BAKED    APPLE   PUDDING. 

4m 
jf   A  pint  of  stewed  apples. 

Half  a  pint  of  cream,  or  two  ounces  of  butter. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

A  nutmeg  grated. 

A  table  spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  grated  lemon-peel. 

Stew  your  apple  in  as  little  water  as  possible, 
and  not  long  enough  for  the  pieces  to  break  and 
lose  their  shape.  Put  them  in  a  cullender  to  drain, 
and  mash  them  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  If 
stewed  too  long,  and  in  too  much  water,  they  will 
lose  their  flavour.  When  cold,  mix  with  them  the 
nutmeg,  rose-water,  and  lemon-peel,  and  two 
ounces  of  sugar.  Stir  the  oiher  tw<frounces  of  su- 
gar, with  the  butter  or  cream,  and  then  mix  it 
gradually  with  the  apple. 

Bake  it  in  puff-paste,  in  a  soup-dish,  about  half 
an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Do  not  sugar  the  top. 


FRUIT    PIES. 

Fruit vpies  for  family  use,  are  generally  made 
with  common  paste,  allowing  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter  to  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour. 

Peaches  and  plums  for  pies,  should  be  cu'  !n 
half,  and  the  stones  taken  out.  Cherries  also 


**  • 

24  PASTRY. 

should  be  stoned,  and  red  cherries  only  should 
be  used  for  pies. 

Apples  should  be  cut  into  very  thin  slices,  and 
are  much  improved  by  a  little  lemon  peel.  Sweet 
apples  are  not  good  for  pies,  as  they  are  very  in- 
sipid when  baked,  and  seldom  get  thoroughly  done. 
If  green  apples  are  used,  they  should  first  be  stew^ 
ed  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  and  made  very 
sweet. 

Apples,  stewed  previous  to  baking,  should  not  be 
done  till  they  break,  but  only  till  they  are  tender. 
They  should  then  be  drained  in  a  cullender,  and 
chopped  fine  with  a  knife  or  the  edge  of  a  spoon. 

In  making  pies  of  juicy  fruit,  it  is  a  good  way  to 
set  a  small  tea-cup,  on  the  bottom  crust,  and  lay  the 
fruit  all  round  it.  The  juice  will  collect  under 
the  cup,  and  not  run  out  at  the  edges  or  top  of  the 
pie.  The  fruit  should  be  mixed  with  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  sugar,  and  piled  up  in  the  middle, *so  as 
to  make  the  pie  highest  in  the  centre.  The  up- 
per crust  should  be  pricked  with  a  fork,  or  have  a 
slit  cut  in  the  middle.  The  edges  should  be  nice- 
ly crimped  with  a  knife. 

Dried  peaches,  dried  apples,  and  cranberries 
should  be  stewed  with  a  very  little  water,  and  al- 
lowed to  get  quite  cold  before  they  are  put  into 
the  pie.  If  stewed  fruit  is  put  in  warm,  it  will 
make  the  paste  heavy. 

If  your  pies  are  made  in  the  form  of  shells,  or 
without  lids,  the  fruit  should  always  be  stewed 
first,  or  it  will  not  be  sufficiently  done,  as  the  shells 
(which  should  be  of  puff  paste)  must  not  bake  so 
long  as  covered  pies. 

Shells  intended  for  sweetmeats,  must  be  baked 
empty,  and  the  fruit  put  into  them  before  they  go, 
t§  table, 


PASTRY.  25 

Fruit  pies  with  lids,  should  have  loaf-sugar  gra- 
ted over  them.  If  they  have  been  baked  the  day 
before,  they  should  be  warmed  in  the  stove,  or 
near  the  fire,  before  they  are  sent  to  table,  to  soften 
the  crust,  and  make  them  taste  fresh. 

Raspberry  and  apple-pies  are  much  improved 
by  taking  off  the  lid,  and  pouring  in  a  little  cream 
just  before  they  go  to  table.  Replace  the  lid 
very  carefully. 


OYSTER    PIE. 

A  hundred  large  fresh  oysters,  or  more  if  small. 

The  yolks  of  six  eggs  boiled  hard. 

A  large  slice  of  stale-bread,  grated. 

A  lea-spoonful  of  salt. 

A  table-spoonful  of  pepper. 

A  table-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  nutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon. 

Take  a  large  round  dish,  butter  it  and  spread  a 
rich  paste  over  the  sides,  and  round  .the  edge,  but 
not  at  the  bottom. 

Salt  oysters  will  not  do  for  pies.  They  should 
be  fresh,  and  as  large  and  fine  as  possible. 

Drain  off  part  of  the  liquor  from  the  oysters. 
Put  them  into  a  pan,  and  season  them  with  pepper, 
salt  and  spice.  Stir  them  well  with  the  seasoning. 
Have  ready  the  yolks  of  eggs,  chopped  fine,  and 
the  grated  bread.  Pour  the  oysters  (with  as  much 
of  their  liquor  as  you  please)  into  the  dish  that  has 
the  paste  in  it.  Strew  over  them  the  chopped 
egg  and  grated  bread. 

Roll  out  the  lid  of  the  pie,  and  put  it  on,  crimp- 
ing the  edges  handsomely. 

Take  a  small  sheet  of  paste5  cut  it  into  a  square 
3* 


gQ  PASTRY. 

and  roll  it  up.  Cut  it  with  a  sharp  knife  into  the 
form  of  a  double  tulip. 

Make  a  slit  in  the  centre  of  the  upper  crust,  and 
Stick  the  tulip  in  it. 

Cut  out  eight  large  leaves  of  paste,  and  lay  them 
on  the  lid. 

Bake  the  pie  in  a  quick  oven. 

If  you  think  the  oysters  will  be  too  much  done 
by  baking  them  in  the  crust  you  can  substitute 
for  them  pieces  of  bread,  to  keep  up  the  lid  of 
the  pie. 

Put  the  oysters  with  their  liquor  and  the  season- 
ing,  chopped  egg,  grated  bread,  &c.  into  a  pan. 
Cover  them  closely,  and  let  them  just  come  to  a 
boil,  taking  them  off  the  fire,  and  stirring  them 
frequently. 

When  the  crust  is  baked,  take  the  lid  neatly  off 
(loosening  it  round  the  edge  with  a  knife)  take  out 
the  pieces  of  bread,  and  put  in  the  oysters.  Lay 
the  lid  on  a.gain  very  carefully. 

For  oyster  patties,  the  oysters  are  prepared  in 
the  same  manner. 

They    may    be   chopped   if  you  choose.     They 
be  put  in  small  shells  of  puff-paste, 


BEEF-STEAK    PIE. 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  spread  a  sheet  of  paste 
a.ll  over  the  bottom,  sides,  and  edge. 

Cut  away  from  your  beef-steak  all  the  bone,  fat, 
gristle,  and  skin.  Cut  the  lean  in  small  thin 
pieces,  about  as  large,  generally,  as  the  palm  of 
band,  Beat  the  meat  well  with  the  rolling- 


PASTRY.  27 

pin,  to  make  it  juicy  and  tender.  If  you  put  in 
the  fat,  it  will  make  the  gravy  too  greasy  and 
strong,  as  it  cannot  be  skimmed. 

Put  a  layer  of  meat  over  the  bottom-crust  of 
your  dish,  and  season  it  to  y^tir  taste,  with  pepper, 
salt,  and,  if  you  choose,  a  little  nutmeg.  A  small 
quantity  of  mushroom  ketchup  is  an  improvement ; 
so,  also,  is  a  little  minced  onion. 

Have  ready  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  sliced  thin. 
Spread  over  the  meat,  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  a 
small  piece  of  butter;  then  another  layer  of  meat, 
seasoned,  and  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  so  on 
till  the  dish  is  full  and  heaped  up  in  the  middle, 
having  a  layer  of  meat  on  the  top.  Pour  in  a  little 
water. 

Cover  the  pie  with  a  sheet  of  paste,  and  trim  the 
edges.  Notch  it  handsomely  with  a  knife  ;  and, 
if  you  choose,  make  a  tulip  of  paste,  and  stick  it 
in  the  middle  of  the  lid,  and  lay  leaves  of  paste 
round  it. 

Fresh  oysters  will  greatly  improve  a  beef-steak 
pie.  So  also  will  mushrooms. 

Any  meat  pie  may  be  made  in  a  similar  manner. 


INDIAN    PUDDING. 

A  pound  of  beef-suet,  chopped  very  fine. 

A  pint  of  molasses. 

A  pint  of  rich  milk. 

Four  eggs.      ' 

A  large  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

A  little  grated  or  chipped  leaion-peel. 

Indian  meal  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

Warm  the  milk  and  molasses,  and  stir  them 
together.  Beat  the  eggs,  and  stir  them  gradually 
into  the  milk  and  molasses,  in  turn  with  the  suet 


28  PASTRY. 

and  indian  meal.  Add  the  spice  and  lemon-peel 
and  stir  all  very  hard  together.  Take  care  not  to 
put  too  much  indian  meal,  or  the  pudding  will  be 
heavy  and  solid. 

Dip  the  cloth  in  foiling  water.  Shake  it  out, 
and  flour  it  slightly.  Pour  the  mixture  into  it,  and 
tie  it  up,  leaving  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell. 

Boil  .it  three  hours.  Serve  it  up  hot,  and  eat  it 
with  sauce  made  of  drawn  butter,  wine  and  nut- 
meg. 

When  cold,  it  is  good  cut  in  slices  and  fried. 


BATTER    PUDDING, 

Six  eggs. 

Eight  table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour. 

One  quart  of  milk. 

A  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  the  flour  gradually,  into  the  milk,  carefully 
dissolving  all  the  lumps.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light, 
and  add  them  by  degrees  to  the  milk  and  flour. 
Put  in  the  salt,  and  stir  the  whole  well  together. 

Take  a  very  thick  pudding-cloth.  Dip  it  in 
boiling  water,  and  flour  it.  Pour  into  it  the  mix- 
ture and  tie  it  up,  leaving  room  for  it  to  swell. 
Boil  it  hard,  one  hour,  and  keep  it  in  the  pot,  till 
it  is  time  to  send  it  to  table.  Serve  it  up  with 
wine-sauce. 


A  square  cloth,  which  when  tied  up  will  mtake 
the  pudding  of  a  round  form,  is  better  than  a  bag. 

Apple  Batter  Pudding  is  made  by  pouring  the 
batter  over  a  dish  of  pippins,  pared,  cored,  and 
sweetened,  either  whole  or  cut  in  pieces.  Bake  it, 
and  eat  it  with  butter  and  sugar. 


PASTRY.  29 


BREAD    PUDDING. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  stale  bread. 

A  quart  of  milk,  boiled  with  two  or  three  sticks  of  cinnamon,  slightlj 

broken. 
Eight  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
A  little  grated  lemon-peel. 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  cinnamon,  strain  it,  and 
set  it  away  till  quite  cold. 

Grate  as  much  crumb  of  stale  bread  as  will 
weigh  a  quarter  of  a  pound.  Beat  the  eggs,  and 
when  the  milk  is  cold,  stir  them  into  it  in  turn 
with  the  bread  and  sugar.  Add  the  lemon-peel, 
and  if  you  choose,  a  table  spoonful  of  rose-water. 

Bake  it  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  grate  nutmeg 
over  it  when  done.  JDo  not  send  it  to  table  hot. 
Baked  puddings  should  never  be  eaten  till  they 
have  become  cold,  or  at  least  cool. 


RICE    PUDDING. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 

A  r,\ni  and  a  half  of  milk,  or  cream  and  milk. 

Six  eggs. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  mace,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

A  half  wine-glass  of  rose-water. 

Wash  the  rice.  Boil  it  till  very  soft.  Drain  it% 
and  set  it  away  to  get  cold.  Put  the  butter  and 
sugar  together  in  a  pan,  and  stir  them  till  very  light. 
Add  to  them  the  spice  and  rose-water.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them,  gradually,  into  the 
milk.  Then  stir  the  eggs  and  milk  into  the*utte? 
sugar,  alternately  with  the  rice. 


30  PASTRY. 

Bake  it  and  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 
Currants  or  raisins,  floured,  and  stirred  in  at  the 
last,  will  greatly  improve  it. 

It  should  be  eaten  cold,  or  quite  cool. 


BOSTON    PUDDIXG, 

Make  a  good  common  paste  with  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  flour,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter.* When  you  roll  it  out  the  last  time,  cut  off 
the  edges,  till  you  get  the  sheet  of  paste  of  an  even 
square  shape. 

Have  ready  some  fruit  sweetened  to  your  taste. 
If  cranberries,  gooseberries,  dried  peaches,  or  dam- 
sons,  they  should  be  stewed,  and  made  very  sweet. 
If  apples,  they  should  be  stewed  in  a  very  little 
water,  drained,  and  seasoned  with  nutmeg,  rose- 
water  and  lemon.  If  currants,  raspberries,  or 
blackberries,  they  should  be  mashed  with  sugar, 
and  put  into  the  pudding  raw. 

Spread  the  fruit  very  thick,  all  over  the  sheet  of 
paste,  (which  must  not  be  rolled  out  too  thin.) 
When  it  is  covered  all  over  with  the  fruit,  roll  it 
up,  and  close  the  dough  at  both  ends,  and  down 
the  last  side.  Tie  the  pudding  in  a  cloth  and 
boil  it. 

Eat  it  with  sugar.  It  must  not  be  taken  out  of 
the  pot  till  just  before  it  is  brought  to  table. 

*  Or  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  chopped  very  fine. 
Mix  the  suet  at  once  with  the  flour,  knead  it  with  cold  water  into  a 
stiff  dough,  and  then  roll  it  out  into  a  large  thin  sheet.  Fold  it  up 
and  roll  it  again. 


PASTRY.  31 

FRITTERS. 


Seven  eggs. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk. 

A  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 

Sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batten 


Beat  the  eggs  well  and  stir  them  gradually  into 
the  milk.  Add  the  salt,  and  stir  in  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter. 

Fry  them  in  lard,  and  serve  them  up  hot. 

Eat  them  with  wine  and  sugar. 


They  are  improved  by  stirring  in  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  yeast. 

These  are  excellent  with  the  addition  of  cold 
stewed  apple,  stirred  into  the  mixture,  in  which 
case  use  less  flour. 


FINE    CUSTARDS. 

A  quart  of  milk  or  cream. 

The  yolks  only,  of  sixteen  eggs. 

Six  ounces  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  broken  in  small  pieces. 

A  large  handful  of  peach-leaves,  or  half  an  ounce  of  peach  kernels 

or  bitter  almonds,  broken  in  pieces. 
A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 
A  nutmeg. 

Boil  in  the  milk  the  cinnamon,  and  the  peach- 
leaves,  or  peach-kernels.  When  it  has  boiled,  set 
it  away  to  get  cold.  As  soon  as  it  is  cold,  strain  it 
through  a  sieve,  to  clear  it  from  the  cinnamon, 
peach-leaves,  &ic.  and  stir  into  it  gradually,  the 
sugar,  spice,  and  rose-water. 

Beat  the  yolks   of  sixteen  eggs  very  light,  and 


32  PASTRY* 

stir  them  by  degrees  into  the  milk,  which  must  be 
quite  cold  or  the  eggs  will  make  it  curdle.  Put 
the  custards  into  cups,  and  set  them  in  a  baking 
pan,  half  filled  with  water.  When  baked,  grate 
some  nutmeg  over  each  and  ice  them.  Make  the 
icing  of  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  a  large  tea-spoon- 
ful of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  six  drops  of  es- 
sence of  lemon,  beaten  all  together  till  it  stands 
alone.  Pile  up  some  of  the  icing  on  the  top  of 
each  custard,  heaping  it  high.  Put  a  spot  of  red 
nonpareils  on  the  middle  of  the  pile  of  icing. 

If  the  weather  be  damp,  or  the  eggs  not  new 
laid,  more  than  eight  whites  will  be  required  for 
the  icing. 


PLAIN    CUSTARDS, 

A  quart  of  rich  milk. 
Eight  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

A  handful  of  peach-leaves,  or  half  an  ounce  of  peach-kernels,  bro- 
ken in  pieces. 
A  nutmeg. 


Boil  the  peach-leaves  or  kernels  in  the  milk,  and 
set  it  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  strain  out  the 
leaves  or  kernels,  and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  gradually  into  the 
milk  when  it  is  quite  cold.  Bake  it  in  cups,  or  in 
a  large  white  dish. 

When  cool,  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 


PASTRY.  35 


A  TRIFLE. 

A  quart  of  cream. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  powdered. 

Half  a  pint  of  white  wine  )     .      , 

Half  a  kill  of  brandy         J  mixed- 

Eight  maccaroons,  or  more,  if  you  choose. 

Four  small  spunge-cakes  or  Naples  Biscuit. 

Two  ounces  of  blanched  sweet  almonds,  pounded  in  a  mortar. 

One  ounce  of  blanched  bitter  almonds  or  peach-kernels. 

The  juice  and  grated  peel  of  two  lemons. 

A  nutmeg,  grated. 

A  glass  of  noyau. 

A  pint  of  rich  baked  custard,  made  of  the  yolks  of  eggs. 

Pound  the  sweet  and  bitter  almonds  to  a  smooth 
paste,  adding  a  little  rose-water  as  you  pound 
them. 

Grate  the  yellow  peels  of  the  lemons,  and 
squeeze  the  juice  into  a  saucer. 

Break  the  spunge  cake  and  maccaroons  into 
small  pieces,  mix  them  with  the  almonds,  and  lay 
them  in  the  bottom  of  a  large  glass  bowl.  Grate 
a  nutmeg  over  them,  and  the  juice  and  peel  of  the 
lemons,  ^id  the  wine  and  brandy,  and  let  the 
mixture  rffiain  untouched,  till  the  cakes  are  dis- 
solved in  the  liquor.  Then  stir  it  a  little. 

Mix  the  cream  and  sugar  with  a  glass  of  noyau, 
and  beat  it  with  a  whisk  or  rods,  till  it  stands 
alone. 

As  the  froth  rises,  take  it  off  with  a  spoon,  and 
lay  it  on  a  sieve  (with  a  large  dish  under  ilj&to 
drain.  The  cream,  that  drains  into  the  dish,  must 
be  poured  back  into  the  pan  with  the  rest,  and 
beaten  over  again.  When  the  cream  is  finished, 
set  it  in  a  cool  place. 

When  the  custard  is  cold,  pour  it  into  the  glass 
bowl  upon  the  dissolved  cakes,  &c.  and  when  the 
cream  is  ready,  fill  up  the  bowt  with  it,  heaping 


36  PASTRY. 

it  high  in  the  middle.     You  may  ornament  it  with 
nonpareils. 

If  you  choose,  you  can  put  in,  between  the  cus- 
lard  and  the  frothed  cream,  a  layer  of  fruit  jelly, 
or  small  fruit  preserved. 


WHIPT  CREAM. 

A  quart  of  cream. 
The  whites  of  four  eggs. 
Haifa  pint  of  white  wine. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar. 

Ten  drops  of  strong  essence  of  lemon,  or  two  lemons  cut   in  thin 
slices,  or  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon. 

Mix  together,  in  a  broad  pan,  all  the  ingredients, 
unless  you  use  slices  of  lemon,  and  then  they  must 
be  laid  at  intervals  among  the  froth,  as  you  heap 
it  in  the  bowl. 

With  a  whisk  or  rods,  beat  the  cream  to  a 
strong  froth.  Have  beside  your  pan  a  sieve  (bot- 
tom upwards)  with  a  large  dish  under  it.  As  the 
froth  rises,  take  it  lightly  off  with  a  spoon,  and  lay 
it  on  the  sieve  to  drain.  When  the  top  of  the 
sieve  is  full,  transfer  the  froth  to  a  laflge  glass  or 
china  bowl.  Continue  to  do  this  till  the  bowl 
is  full. 

The  cream  which  has  dropped  through  the  sieve 
into  the  dish,  must  be  poured  into  the  pan,  and 
beaten  over  again.  When  all  the  cream  is  con- 
verted into  froth,  pile  it  up  in  the  bowl,  making  it 
highest  in  the  middle. 

If  you  choose,  you  may  ornament  it  with  red 
sind  green  nonpareils. 

If  you  put  it  in   glasses,  lay  a  little  jelly  in  the 
Bottom  of  each  glass,  and  pile  the  cream  on  it. 
Keep  it  in  a  cool  place  till  you  want  to  use  i^. 


PASTRY.  37 


FLOATING    ISLAND, 

Six  whites  of  eggs. 

Six  large  table-spoonfuls  of  jelly. 

A  pint  of  cream. 

Put  the  jelly  and  white  of  egg  into  a  pan,  and 
beat  it  together  with  a  whisk,  till  it  becomes  a  stiff 
froth  and  stands  alone. 

Have  ready  the  cream,  in  a  broad  shallow  dish. 
Just  before  you  send  it  to  table,  pile  up  the  froth 
in  the  centre  of  the  cream. 


ICE   CREAM, 

A  quart  of  rich  cream. 
Half  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar. 

The  juice  of  two  large  lemons,  or  a  pint  of  strawberries  or  raspr 
berries. 


Put  the  cream  into  a  broad  pan,  and  squeeze 
the  lemon  juice  into  it,  or  stir  in  gradually  the 
strawberries  or  raspberries,  which  must  first  be 
mashed  to  a  smooth  paste.  Then  stir  in  the  sugar 
by  degrees,  and  when  all  is  well  mixed,  strain  it 
through  a  sieve. 

Put  it  into  a  tin  that  has  a  close  cover,  and  set  it 
in  a  tub.  Fill  the  tub  with  ice  broken  into  very 
small  pieces,  and  strew  among  the  ice  A  large 
quantity  of  salt,  taking  care  that  none  of  tne  salt 
gets  into  the  cream.*  Scrape  the  cream  down  with 
a  spoon  as  it  freezes  round  the  edges  of  the  tin. 
When  it  is  all  frozen,  dip  the  tin  in  lukewarm 
water  ;  take  out  the  cream,  and  fill  your  glasses  ; 
4* 


38  PASTRY. 

but  not  till  a  few  minutes  before  you   want  to  use 
it,  as  it  will  very  soon  melt. 

You  may  heighten  the   colour  of  the  red  fruit, 
by  a  little  cochineal. 


If  you  wish  to  have  it  in  moulds,  put  the  cream 
into  them  as  soon  as  it  has  frozen  in  the  tin.  Set 
the  moulds  in  a  tub  of  ice  and  salt.  Just  before 
you  want  to  use  the  cream,  take  the  moulds  out 
of  the  tub,  wipe  or  wash  the  salt  carefully  from  the 
outside,  dip  the  moulds  in  lukewarm  water,  and 
turn  out  the  cream. 


CALF'S-FEET    JELLY, 

Four  calfs  feet. 

Three  quarts  of  water, 

A  pint  of  white  wine, 

Three  lemons. 

The  whites  of  six  eggs. 

Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon. 

JIalf  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  broken  into  lumps. 

Endeavour  to  procure  calf's-feet,  that  have 
been  nicely  singed,  but  not  skinned,  as  the  skin 
being  left  on,  makes  the  jelly  much  firmer. 

The  day  before  you  want  to  use  the  jelly,  boil 
the  four  calf's-feet  in  three  quarts  of  water,  till 
the  meat  drops  from  the  bone.  When  sufficiently 
done,  fut  it  into  a  cullender  or  sieve,  and  let  the 
liquid  drain  from  the  meat,  into  a  broad  pan  or 
dish.  Skim  off  the  fat.  Let  the  jelly  stand  till 
next  day,  and  then  carefully  scrape  off  the  sedi- 
ment from  the  bottom.  It  will  be  a  firm  jelly,  if 
too  much  water  has  not  been  used,  and  if  it  has 
boiled  long  enough, 


PASTRY.  39 

Early  next  morning,  put  the  jelly  into  a  tin  ket- 
tle, or  covered  tin  pan  ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  melt 
it  a  little.  Take  it  off,  and  season  it  with  the  cin- 
namon slightly  broken,  a  pini;  of  madeira  wine, 
three  lemons  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  half  a  pound  of 
loaf-sugar,  broken  up. 

If  you  wish  it  high-coloured,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  French  brandy.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether. Beat,  slightly,  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
(saving  the  egg-shell)  and  stir  the  whites  inlo  the 
jelly.  Break  up  the  egg-shells  into  very  small 
pieces,  and  throw  them  in  also.  Stir  the  whole 
very  well  together. 

Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  boil  it  hard  five  minutes, 
but  do  not  stir  it,  as  that  will  prevent  its  clear- 
ing. Have  ready  a  large  white  flannel  bag,  the 
top  wide,  and  the  bottom  tapering  to  a  point. 

Tie  the  bag  to  the  backs  of  two  chairs,  or  to  the 
legs  of  a  table,  and  set  a  white  dish  or  a  mould 
under  it. 

After  the  jelly  has  boiled  five  minutes,  pour  it 
hot  into  the  bag,  and  let  it  drip  through  into  the 
dish.  Do  not  squeeze  the  bag,  as  that  will  make 
the  jelly  dull  and  cloudy. 

If  it  is  not  clear  the  first  time  it  passes  througb 
the  bag,  empty  out  all  the  ingredients,  wash  the 
bag,  suspend  it  again,  put  another  white  dish  un- 
der it,  pour  the  jelly  back  into  the  bag,  and  let  it 
drip  through  again.  Repeat  this  six  or  eight  times, 
or  till  it  is  clear,  putting  a  clean  dish* 'fender  it 
every  time.  If  it  does  not  drip  freely,  move  the 
bag  into  a  warmer  place. 

When  the  jelly  has  all  dripped  through  the  bag, 
and  is  clear,  set  it  in  a  cool  place  to  congeal.  It 
will  sometimes  congealimmediately,  and  sometimes 
not  for  several  hours,  particularly  if  the  weather  is 


40  PASTRY. 

warm  and  damp.  If  the  weather  is  very  cold  you 
must  take  care  not  to  let  it  freeze.  When  it  is 
quite  firm,  which  perhaps  it  will  not  be  till  even- 
ing, fill  your  glasses. with  it,  piling  it  up  very  high. 
If  you  make  it  in  a  mould,  you  must  either  set  the 
mould  under  the  bag  while  it  is  dripping,  or  pour 
it  from  the  dish  into  the  mould  while  it  is  liquid. 
When  it  is  perfectly  congealed,  dip  the  mould  for 
an  instant  in  boiling  water  to  loosen  the  jelly. 
Turn  it  out  on  a  glass  dish. 

This  quantity  of  ingredients  will  make  a  quart  of 
jelly  when  finished.  In  cool  weather  it  may  be 
made  a  day  or  two  before  it  is  wanted. 

You  may  increase  the  seasoning,  (that  is,  the 
wine,  lemon,  and  cinnamon,)  according  to  your 
taste,  but  less  than  the  above  proportion  will  not  be 
sufficient  to  flavour  the  jelly. 


BLANCMANGE. 

calf 's-feet. 
A  pint  and  a  half  of  thick  cream. 
Haifa  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  broken  up. 
A  glass  of  wine. 
Half  a  glass  of  rose-water. 
A  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  beaten  and  sifted. 

Get  four  calf's-feet ;  if  possible  some  that  have 
been  singed,  and  not  skinned.  Scrape,  and  clean 
them  w^j|,  and  boil  them  in  three  quarts  of  water 
till  all  the  meat  drops  off  the  bone.  Drain  the 
liquid  through  a  cullender  or  sieve,  and  skim  it 
well.  Let  it  stand  till  next  morning  to  congeal. 
Then  clean  it  well  from  the  sediment,  and  put  it 
into  a  tin  or  bell-metal  kettle.  Stir  into  it,  the 
cream,  sugar,  and  mace.  Boil  it  hard  for  five 


PASTRY.  41 

minutes,  stirring  it  several  times.  Then  strain  it 
through  a  linen  cloth  or  napkin  into  a  large  bowl, 
and  add  the  wine  and  rose-water. 

Set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  three  or  four  hours, 
stirring  it  very  frequently  with  a  spoon,  to  prevent 
the  cream  from  separating  from  the  jelly.  The 
more  it  is  stirred  the  better.  Stir  it  till  it  is  cool. 

Wash  your  moulds,  wipe  them  dry,  and  then  wet 
them  with  cold  water.  When  the  blancmange 
becomes  very  thick,  (that  is  in  three  or  four  hours, 
if  the  weather  is  not  too  damp)  put  it  into  your 
moulds. 

When  it  has  set  in  them  till  it  is  quite  firm,  loos- 
en it  carefully  all  round  with  a  knife,  and  turn  it 
out  on  glass  or  china  plates. 


If  you  wish  to  make  it  with  almonds,  take  an 
ounce  of  blanched  bitter  almonds,  and  two  ouncea 
of  .sweet.  Beat  them  in  a  mortar  to  a  fine  paste, 
pouring  in  occasionally  a  little  rose-water.  When 
the  mixture  is  ready  to  boil,  add  the  almonds  to  iw— 
gradually,  stirring  them  well  in.  Or  you  may  stir 
them  in,  while  it  is  cooling  in  the  bowl. 

If  it  inclines  to  stick  to  the  moulds,  set  them  an 
instant  in  hot  water.     It  will  then  turn  out  easily. 


If  you  choose  to  make  it  without  calf's  feet, 
you  can  substitute  an  ounce  of  the  best  and  clear- 
est isinglass,  or,  if  in  summer,  an  ounce  and  a  quar- 
ter boiled  with  the  other  ingredients.  If  made 
with  isinglass,  you  must  use  two  ounces  of  sweet, 
and  an  ounce  of  bitter  almonds',  with  the  addition 
of  the  grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  and  a 


**  PASTRY. 

stick  of  cinnamon,  broken  up,  a  glass  of  wine,  and 
half  a  glass  of  rose-water.  These  ingredients  must 
be  all  mixed  together,  with  a  quart  of  cream,  and 
boiled  hard  for  five  minutes.  The  mixture  must 
then  be  strained  through  a  napkin,  into  a  large 
bowl.  Set  it  in  a  cool  place,  and  stir  it  frequently 
till  nearly  cold.  It  must  then  be  put  into  the 
moulds. 

You  may  substitute  for  the  almonds,  half  a  gill 
of  noyau,  in  which  case,  omit  the  wine. 


CAKES.  57 


in  it,  not  too  close  together.  Bake  them  a  few 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  till  they  are  very 
slightly  coloured,  but  not  brown.  Jf  too  much 
baked,  they  will  entirely  lose  their  flavour.  Do 
not  roll  them  out  too  thin. 


JUMBL.ES. 

Three  eggs. 

Haifa  pound  of  flour,  sifted. 

Haifa  pound  of  butter. 

Half  a  pound  of  powered  loaf-sugar. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  nutmeg  grated. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  mace  and  cinnamon. 


Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light.  Throw  them,  all  al  once,  into 
the  pan  of  flour.  Put  in,  at  once,  the  butter  and 
sugar,  and  then  add  the  spice  and  rose-water.  If 
you  have  no  rose-water,  substitute  six  or  seven 
drops  of  strong  essence  of  lemon,  or  more  if  the 
essence  is  weak.  Stir  the  whole  very  hard,  with 
a  knife. 

Spread  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  and 
flour  your  hands  well.  Take  up  with  your  knife, 
a  porton  of  the  dough,  and  lay  it  on  the  board. 
Roll  it  lightly  with  your  hands,  into  long  thin  rolls, 
which  must  be  cut  into  equal  lengths,  curled  up 
into  rings,  and  laid  gently  into  an  iron  or  tin  pan, 
buttered,  not  too  close  to  each  other,  as  they 
spread  in  baking.  Bake  them  in  a  quick  oven 
about  five  minutes,  and  grate  loaf-sugar  over 
them  when  cool. 


6 


58  CAKES, 

.- 

KISSES. 

One  pound  of  the  best  loaf  sugar,  powdered  and  sifted, 
The  whites  of  four  eggs. 
Twelve  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 
A  tea-cup  of  currant  jelly. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  till  they  stand  alone. 
Then  beat  in,  gradually,  the  sugar,  a  tea-spoonful 
at  a  time.  Add  the  essence  of  lemon,  and  beat 
the  whole  very  hard. 

Lay  a  Wet  sheet  of  paper  on  the  bottom  of  a 
square  tin  pan.  Drop  on  it,  at  equal  distances,  a 
small  tea-spoonful  of  stiff  currant  jelly.*  With  a 
large  spoon,  pile  some  of  the  beaten  white  of  egg 
and  sugar,  on  each  lump  of  jelly,  so  as  to  cover  it 
entirely.  Drop  on  the  mixture  as  evenly  as  pos- 
sible, so  as  to  make  the  kisses  of  a  round  smooth 
shape. 

Set  them  in  a  cool  oven,  and  as  soon  as  they 
are  coloured,  they  are  done.  Then  take  them  out 
and  place  them  two  bottoms  together.  Lay  them 
lightly  on  a  sieve,  and  dry  them  in  a  cool  oven, 
till  the  two  bottoms  stick  fast  together,  so  as  to 
form  one  ball  or  oval. 


SPANISH    BUNS. 

Four  eggs. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  sifted. 

Haifa  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Two  wine-glasses  and  a  half  of  rich  milk. 

Five  ounces  of  fresh  butter. 

A  wine-glass  and  a  half  of  the  best  yeast. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  grated  nutmeg. 

A  large  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  mace  and  cinnamon. 

Sift  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  broad  pan,  and 
sift  a  quarter  of  a    pound,  separately,  into  a  deep 

*  Is  is  better  to  put  a  little  of  the  beaten  white  of  egg  and  sugar  at 
first,  under  thb«currant-jelly. 


CAKES.  59 

plate,  and  set  it  aside.  Put  the  milk  into  a  soup- 
plate,  cut  up  the  butter,  and  set  it  on  the  stove  or 
near  the  fire  to  \varra,  but  do  not  let  it  get  too  hot. 
When  the  butter  is  very  soft,  stir  it  all  through  the 
milk  with  a  knife,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Beat 
the  eggs  very  light,  and  mix  the  milk  and  butter 
with  them,  all  at  once  ;  then  pour  all  into  the  pan 
of  flour.  Put  in  the  spice,  and  the  rose-water,  or 
if  you  prefer  it,  eight  drops  of  essence  of  lemon  ; 
Add  the  yeast,  of  which  an  increased  quantity  will 
be  necessary,  if  it  is  not  very  strong  and  fresh. 
Stir  the  whole  very  hard,  with  a  knife.  Add  the 
sugar  gradually.  If  the  sugar  is  not  stirred  in 
slowly,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  buns  will  be  heavy. 
Then,  by  degrees,  sprinkle  in  the  remaining  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  flour.  Stir  all  well  together; 
butter  a  square  iron  pan,  and  put  in  the  mixture. 
Cover  it  with  a  cloth,  and  set  it  near  the  fire  to 
rise.  It  will  probably  not  be  light  in  less  than 
five  hours.  When  it  is  risen  very  high,  and  is  cov- 
ered with  bubbles,  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven, 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more,  in  proportion 
to  its  thickness. 

When  it  is  quite  cool,  cut  it  in  squares,  and  grate 
loaf-sugar  over  them.  This  quantity  will  make 
twelve  or  fifteen  buns. 

They  are  best  the  day  they  are  baked. 

You  may,  if  you  choose,  bake  them  separately, 
in  small  square  tins, 'adding  to  the  batter  half  a 
pound  of  currants  or  chopped  raisins,  well  floured, 
and  stirred  in  at  the  last. 


In  making  buns,  stir  the  yeast  well  before  you 
put  it  in,  having  first  poured  off*  the  beer  or  thin 
part  from  the  top.  If  your  yeast  is  not  good,  do 


60  CAKES. 

not  attempt  to   make  buns  with    it,  as  they  will 
never  be  light. 

Buns   may  be  made  in  a  plainer  way,  with  the 
following  ingredients,  mixed  in  the  above  manner. 


Half  a  pound  of  flour,  sifted  into  a  pan. 

A  quarter  of  a    pound  of  flour,  sifted  in  a  plate,  and  set  aside  to 

sprinkle  in  at  the  last. 
Three  eggs,  well  beaten. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 
Three  wine-glasses  of  milk. 
A  wine-glass  and  a  half  of  the  best  yeast. 
A  large  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butler,  cut  up,  and  warmed  in  the  milk. 


RUSK. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

One  pound  of  flour  sifted. 

One  egg. 

Three  wine-glasses  of  milk. 

A  wine-glass  and  a  half  of  the  best  yeast. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 


Sift  your  flour  into  a  pan.  Cut  up  the  butter  in 
the  milk,  and  warm  them  a  little,  so  as  to  soften 
the  butter,  but  not  to  melt  it  entirely.  Beat  your 
egg;  pour  the  milk  and  butter  into  your  pan  of 
flour,  then  the  egg,  then  the  rose-water  and  spice, 
and  lastly  the  yeast.  Stir  all  well  together  with 
a  knife. 

Spread  some  flour  on  your  paste-board  :  lay  the 
dough  on  it,  and  knead  it  well.  Then  divide  it 
into  small  pieces  of  an  equal  size,  and  knead  each 
piece  into  a  little  thick  round  cake.  Butter  an 
iron  pan,  lay  the  cakes  in  it,  and  set  them  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  Prick  the  tops  with  a  fork. 
When  they  are  quite  light,  bake  them  in  a  mode- 
rate oven. 


CAKES.  61 


INDIAN    POUND    CAKE. 

Eight  eggs. 

The  weight  of  eight  eggs  in  powdered  sugar. 

The  weight  of  six  eggs  in  Indian  meal,  sifted. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 

One  nutmeg,  grated, — or  a  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon. 


Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light.  Stir  the  meal  and  eggs,  alternate- 
ly, into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Grate  in  the  nut- 
meg. Stir  all  well.  Butter  a  tin  pan,  put  in  the 
mixture,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CUP    CAKE. 

Five  eggs. 

Two  large  tea-cups  full  of  molasses. 

The  same  of  brown  sugar,  rolled  fine. 

The  same  of  fresh  butter. 

One  cup  of  rich  milk. 

Five  cups  of  flour,  sifted. 

Half  a  cup  of  powdered  allspice  and  cloves. 

Half  a  cup  of  ginger. 


Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  milk,  and  warm  them 
slightly.  Warm  also  the  molasses,  and  stir  it  into 
the  milk  and  butter  :  then  stir  in,  gradually,  the 
sugar,  and  set  it  away  to  get  cool. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the 
mixture  alternately  with  the  flour.  Add  the  ginger 
and  other  spice,  and  stir  the  whole  very  hard. 

Butter  small  tins,  nearly  fill  them  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  bake  the  cakes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

6* 


62  CAKES, 


LOAF    CAKE. 

Two  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  setting  aside  half  a  pound  to  sprinkle  in 

at  the  last. 

One  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
One  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 
Four  eggs. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  stoned,  and  cut  in  half. 
One  pound  of  currants,  washed  and  dried. 
JJalf  a  pint  of  milk. 
A  glass  of  wine. 
A  glass  of  brandy. 

A  table- spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  mace,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 
Haifa  pint  of  the  best  brewer's  yeast  5  or  more,  if  the  yeast  is  not 
very  strong. 

Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  milk,  and  warm  it  till 
the  butter  is  quite  soft  ;  then  stir  it  together,  and 
set  it  away  to  cool.  It  must  not  be  made  too  warm. 
After  you  have  beaten  the  eggs,  mix  them  with  the 
butter  and  rnilk,  and  stir  the  whole  into  the  pan  of 
flour.  Add  the  spice  and  liquor,  and  stir  in  the 
sugar  gradually.  Having  poured  off  the  thin  part 
from  the  top,stir  the  yeast,  and  pour  it  into  the  mix- 
ture. Then  sprinkle  in  the  remainder  of  the  flour. 

Have  ready  the  fruit,  which  must  be  well  flour- 
ed, stir  it  gradually  into  the  mixture.  Butter  a 
large  tin  pan,  and  put  the  cake  into  it.  Cover  it, 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  five  or  six  hours  to 
rise.  When  quite  light,  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 


SUGAR    BISCUITS.      v 

Three  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 

One  pound  of  butter. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  brandy. 

A  small  tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash  dissolved  in  water. 

Four  table-spoonfuls  of  carraway  seeds. 


Cut  the   butter  into  the  flour.     Add  the  stfgar 
and  carraway   seeds.      Pour   in  the  brandy,  and 


CAKES.  63 

then  the  milk.  Lastly,  put  in  the  pearl-ash.  Stir 
all  well  with  a  knife,  and  mix  it  thoroughly,  till  it 
becomes  a  lump  of  dough. 

Flour  your  paste-board,  and  lay  the  dough  on 
it.  Knead  it  very  well.  Divide  it  into  eight  or  ten 
pieces,  and  knead  each  piece  separately.  Then 
put  them  all  together,  and  knead  them  very  well 
in  one  lump. 

Cut  the  dough  in  half,  and  roll  it  out  into  sheets, 
about  half  an  inch  thick.  Beat  the  sheets  ofdough 
very  hard,  on  both  sides,  with  the  rolling-pin. 
Cut  them  out  into  round  cakes  with  the  edge  of  a 
tumbler.  Butter  iron  pans,  and  lay  the  cakes  in 
them.  Bake  them  of  a  very  pale  brown.  If  done 
too  much  they  will  lose  their  taste. 

These  cakes  kept  in  a  stone  jar,  closely  covered 
from  the  air,  will  continue  perfectly  good  for  seve- 
ral months. 


MILK    BISCUITS. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 
Half  a  pound  cf  butter. 
Two  eggs. 

Six  wine-glasses  of  milk. 

Two  wine-glasses  of  the  best  brewer's  yeast,  or  three  of  good  home- 
-made yeast. 

*  - 

Cut  the  butter  into  the  milk,  and  warm  it  slightly 
on  the  top  of  the  stove,  or  near  the  fire.  Sift  the 
flour  into  a  pan,  and  pour  the  milk  and  butter  into 
it.  Beat  the  eggs,  and  pour  them  in  also.  Lastly 
the  yeast.  Mix  all  well  together  with  a  knife. 

Flour  your  paste-board,  put  the  lump  of  dough 
on  it,  and  knead  it  very  hard.  Then  cut  the  dough 


64  CAKES. 

in  small  pieces,  and  knead  them  into  round  balls. 
Stick  the  tops  of  them  with  a  fork. 

Lay  them  in  buttered  pans  and  set  them  to  rise. 
They  will  probably  be  light  in  an  hour.  When 
they  are  quite  light,  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  bake  them. 

They  are  best  when  quite  fresh. 


BUTTER    BISCUITS. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 
Two  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 
Haifa  pint  of  milk,  or  cold  water. 
A  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 


Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  flour,  and  put  the  salt 
to  it.  Wet  it  to  a  stiff  dough  with  the  milk  or  wa- 
ter. Mix  it  well  with  a  knife. 

Throw  some  flour  on  the  paste-board,  take  the 
dough  out  of  the  pan,  and  knead  it  very  well. 

Roll  it  out  into  a  large  thick  sheet,  and  beat  it 
very  hard  on  both  sides  with  the  rolling-pin. 
Beat  it  a  longtime. 

Cut  it  out  with  a  tin,  or  cup,  into  small  round 
thick  cakes.  Beat  each  cake  on  both  sides,  with 
the  rolling-pin.  Prick  them  with  a  fork.  Put 
them  in  buttered  pans,  and  bake  them  of  a  light 
brown  in  a  slow  oven. 


CAKES.  65 

^ERBRE. 


GINGEl     READ    NUTS. 

Two  pounds  of 

One  pound  of  fi 

Half  a  pound  of  bro^CTugar, 

One  quart  of  sugar- house  molasses. 

Two  ounces  of  ginger,  or  more,  if  it  is  not  very  strong. 

Twelve  dozen  grains  of  allspice,  ^ 

Six  dozen  cloves,  >  powdered  and  sifted. 

Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,         } 


Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  flour.  Sprtfid  the  su- 
gar on  your  paste-board,  and  crush  it  very  fine 
with  the  rolling-pin.  Put  it  to  the  flour  and  butter, 
and  then  add  the  ginger  ana  other  spice.  Wet 
the  whole  with  the  molasses,  and  stir  all  well  to- 
gether with  a  knife. 

Throw  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  take  the 
dough  (a  large  handful  at  a  time)  and  knead  it  in 
separate  cakes.  Then  put  all  together,  and  knead 
it  very  hard  for  a  long  time,  in  one  large  lump. 
Cut  the  lump  in  half,  roll  it  out  in  two  even  sheets, 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  out  in  little 
cakes,  with  a  very  small  tin,  about  the  size  of  a 
cent.  Lay  them  in  buttered  pans,  and  bake  them 
in  a  moderate  oven,  taking  care  they  do  not  scorch, 
as  gingerbread  is  more  liable  to  burn  than  any 
other  cake. 

Cou  may,  if  you  choose,  shape  the  gingerbread 
,  by  putting  flour  in  your  hand,  taking  a  very 
small  piece  of  the  dough,  and  rolling  it  into  a  little 
round  ball. 


66  CAKES. 


COMMON    GIN 


GERBRKAD. 


A  pint  of  molasses. 

Half  a.pound  of  brown  sugar. 

One  p«md  of  fresh  butter. 

Two  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour,  sifted. 

A  pint  of  milk. 

A  small  tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash,  or  less  if  it  is  strong. 

A  tea-cup  full  of  ginger. 


Cut  tRe  butter  into  the  flour.  Crush  the  sugar 
with  a  rolling-pin,  and  throw  it  into  the  flour  and 
butter.  Add  the  ginger. 

Having  dissolved  the  pearl-ash  in  a  little  vine- 
gar, stir  it  with  the  milk  and  molasses  alternately 
into  the  other  ingredients.  Stir  it  very  hard  for  a 
long  time,  till  it  is  quite  light. 

Put  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  take  out 
small  portions  of  the  dough,  and  naake  it  with  your 
hand  into  long  rolls.  Then  curl  up  the  rolls  into 
round  cakes,  or  twist  two  rolls  together,  or  lay 
them  in  straight  lengths  or  sticks  side  by  side,  and 
touching  each  other.  Put  them  carefully  in  but- 
tered pans,  and  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  not 
hot  enough  to  burn  them.  If  they  should  get 
scorched,  scrape  off  with  a  knife,  or  grater,  all  the 
burnt  parts,  before  you  put! the  cakes  away. 

You  can,  if  you   choose,  cut  out  the  dough  with 
tins,  in  the  shape  of  hearts,  circles,  ovals,  & 
you  may  bake  it  all  in  one,  and  cut  it  in  square 
when  cold. 

If  the  mixture  appears  to  be  too  thin,  add,  grad- 
ually, a  little  more  sifted  flour. 


CAKES.  67 


LAFAYETTE    GINGERBREAD. 

Five  eggs. 

Haifa  pound  of  brown  sugar. 

Half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

A  pint  of  sugar-house  molasses. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  flour. 

Four  table-spoonfuls  of  ginger. 

Two  large  sticks  of  cinnamon,  ^ 

Three  dozen  grains  of  allspice,  >  powdered  and  sifted. 

Three  dozen  of  clpves,  } 

The  juice  and  grated  peel  of  two  large  lemons. 


Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  well.  Pour  the  molasses,  at  once,  into 
the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  ginger  and  other 
spice,  and  stir  all  well  together. 

Put  in  the  egg  and  flour  alternately,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Stir  the  whole  very  hard,  and  put  in 
the  lemon  at  the  last.  When  the  whole  is  mixed, 
stir  it  till  very  light. 

Butter  an  earthen  pan,  or  a  thick  tin  or  iron  one, 
and  put  the  gingerbread  in  it.  Bake  it  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  an  hour  or  more,  according  to  its 
thickness.  Take  care  that  it  does  not  burn. 

Or  you  may  bake  it  in  small  cakes,  on  little  tins. 

Its  lightness  will  be  much  improved  bj  a  small 
tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash  dissolved  in  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  vinegar,  and  stirred  lightly  in  at  the  last.* 
Too  much  pearl-ash  will  give  it  an  unpleasant  taste. 

If  you  use  pearl-ash,  you  must  omit  the  lemon, 
as  its  taste  will  be  entirely  destroyed  by  the  pearl- 
ash.  You  may  substitute  for  the  lemon,  some 
raisins  and  currants,  well  floured  to  prevent  their 
sinking. 

*  If  the  pearl-ash  is  strong,  half  a  tea-spoonful  will  be  sufficient,  or 
less  even  will  do.  It  is  better  to  stir  the  pearl-ash  in,  a  little  at  a 
time,  and  you  can  tell  by  the  taste  of  be  mixture,  when  there  U 
enough. 


68  CAKES. 

This  is  the  finest  of  all  gingerbread,  but  should 
not  be  kept  long,  as  in  a  few  days  it  becomes  very 
hard  and  stale. 


A    DOVER    CAKE. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk. 

A  small  tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash,  dissolved  in  a  little  vinegar. 

One  pound  of  sifted  flour. 

One  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Haifa  pound  of  butter. 

Six  eggs. 

One  glass  of  brandy. 

Haifa  glass  of  rose-water. 

One  grated  nutmeg. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 


Dissolve  the  pearl-ash  in  vinegar.  Stir  the  su- 
gar and  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add  to  it,  gradual- 
ly, the  spice  and  liquor.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light, 
and  stir  them  into  the  butter  and  sugar,  alternate- 
ly, with  the  flour.  Add,  gradually,  the  milk,  and 
stir  the  whole  very  hard. 

Butter  a  large  tin  pan,  and  put  in  the  mixture. 
Bake  it  two  hours  or  more,  in  a  moderate  oven. 
If  not  thick,  an  hour  or  an  hour  and  a  half  will  be 
sufficient. 

Wrap  it  in,  a  thick  cloth,  and  keep  it  from  the 
air,  and  it  will  continue  moist  and  fresh  for  two 
weeks.  The  pearl-ash  will  give  it  a  dark  colour. 

It  will  be  much  improved  by  a  pound  of  raisins, 
stoned  and  cut  in  half,  and  a  pound  of  currants, 
well  washed  and  dried. 

Flour  the  fruit  well,  and  stir  it  in  at  the  last. 


CAKES.  69 

CRULLERS.    N 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Six  eggs,  or  seven,  if  they  are  small. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 

A  grated  nutmeg. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose  water. 

Cut  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  the  sugar  and 
spice,  and  mix  them  well  together. 

Beat  the  eggs,  and  pour  them  into  the  pan  of 
flour,  &c.  Add  the  rose  water,  and  mix  the  whole 
into  a  dough.  If  the  eggs  and  rose-water  are  not 
found  sufficient  to  wet  it,  add  a  very  little  cold  wa- 
ter. Mix  the  dough  very  well  with  a  knife. 

Spread  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  take  the 
dough  out  of  the  pan,  and  knead  it  very  well.  Cut 
it  into  small  pieces,  and  knead  each  separately. 
Put  all  the  pieces  together,  and  knead  the  whole  in 
one  lump.  Roll  it  out  into 'a  large  square,  sheet, 
about  half  an  inch  thick.  Take  a  jagging-iron,  or, 
if  you  have  not  one,  a  sharp  knife  ;  run  it  along 
the  sheet,  and  cut  the  dough  into  long  narrow  slips. 
Twist  them  up  in  various  forms.  Have  ready  an 
iron  pan  with  melted  lard.'  Lay  the  crullers  lightly 
in  it,  and  fry  them  of  a  light  brown,  turning  them 
with  a  knife  and  fork,  so  as  not  to  break  them,  and 
taking  care  that  both  sides  are  equally  done. 

When  sufficiently  fried,  spread  them  on  a  large 
dish  to  cool,  and  grate  loaf-sugar  over  them. 

Crullers  may  be  made  in  a  plainer  way,  with  the 
best  brown  sugar,   rolled  very  fine,)   and    without 
spice  or  rose-water. 
7 


70  CAKES. 

They  can  be  fried,  or  rather  boiled,  in  a  deep 
iron  pot.  They  should  be  done  in  a  large  quantity 
of  lard,  and  taken  out  with  a  skimmer  that  has  holes 
in  it,  and  held  on  the  skimmer  till  the  lard  drains 
from  them.  If  for  family  use,  they  can  be  made 
an  inch  thick. 


DOUGH    NUTSj 

Three  pounds  of  sifted  flour. 

A  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

Four  eggs. 

Half  a  large  tea-cup  full  of  best  brewer's  yeast. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  milk. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 

A  grated  nutmeg. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 


ut  up  the  butter  in  the  flour.  Add  the  sugar, 
cer  and  rose-water.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light, 
and  pour  them  into  the  mixture.  Add  the  yeast, 
(half  a  tea-cup,  or  t\*p  wine-glasses  full,)  and  then 
stir  in  the  milk  by  degrees,  so  as  to  make  it  a  soft 
dough.  Cover  it,  and  set  it  to  rise. 

When  quite  light,  cut  it  in  diamonds  with  a  jag- 
ging-iron,  or  a  sharp  knife,  and  fry  them  in  lard. 
Grate  loaf  sugar  over  them  when  done. 


WAFFLES. 

Six  eggs. 

A  pint  of  milk. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  sifted. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 

Warm  the  milk  slightly.     Cut  up  the  butter  in  it, 
and  stir  it  a  little.     Beat  the  eggs  well,   and  pour 


i 


CAKES.  71 

them  into  the  butter  and  milk.  Sprinkle  in  half 
the  flour,  gradually.  Stir  in  the  sugar,  by  degrees, 
and  add  the  spice.  Stir  in,  gradually,  the  remain- 
der of  the  flour,  so  that  it  becomes  a  thick  batter. 

Heat  your  waffle-iron  ;  then  grease  it  well,  and 
pour  in  some  of  the  batter.  Shut  the  iron  tight,  and 
bake  the  waffle  on  both  sides,  by  turning  the  iron. 

As  the  waffles  are  baked,  spread  them  out  sepa- 
rately on  a  clean  napkin.  When  enough  are  done 
for  a  plate-foil,  lay  them  on  a  plate  in  two  piles, 
buttering  them,  and  sprinkling  each  with  beaten 
cinnamon. 


v 
SOFT  MUFFIXS. 

Five  eggs. 

A  quart  of  milk. 

Two  ounces  of  butter. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 

Two  large  tables- spoonfuls  of  brewer's  yeast,  or  four  of  bo 

yeast. 
Enough  of  sifted  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

• 

Warm  the  milk  and  butter  together,  and  add  to 
them  the   salt.      Beat'ihe  eggs  very  light,  and  stir 
them  into  the  milk  andl5u"tter.      Then   stir   in   the 
yeast,   and  lastly,   sufficient  flour  to  make  a  L 
batter. 

Cover  the  mixture,  and  set  it  to  rise,  in  a  warm 
place,  about  three  hours. 

AVhen  it  is  quite  light,  gntase  your  baking-iron. 
,  and  your  muffin  rings.  Set  the  rings  on  the  iron, 
and  pour  the  batter  into  them.  Bake  them  a 
brown.  WThen  you  split  them  to  put  on  the  butter, 
do  not  cut  them  with  a  knife,  but  pull  them  open 
with  your  hands.  Cutting  them  while  hot  will 
make  them  heavy. 


72  CAKES. 


INDIAN   BATTER   CAKES. 

A  quart  of  sifted  indian  meal.      )     .      , 

A  handful  of  wheat  flour,  sifted,  5  mixed' 

Three  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  fresh  brewer's  yeast,  or  four  of  home-made 

yeast. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 
A  quart  of  milk. 

Make  the  milk  quite  warm,  and  then  put  into  it 
the  yeast  and  salt,  stirring  them  well.  Beat  the 
eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  mixture.  Then,  grad- 
ually stir  in  the  flour  and  indian  meal. 

Cover  the  batter,  and  set  it  to  rise  four  or  five 
hours.  Or  if  the  weather  is  cold,  and  you  want 
the  cakes  for  breakfast,  you  may  mix  the  batter  late 
the  night  before. 

Should  you  find  it  sour  in  the  morning,  dissolve 
a  small  tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash  in  as  much  water 
as  will  cover  it,  and  stir  it  into  the  batter,  letting  it 
sit  afterwards  at  least  half  an  hour.  This  will  take 
off  the  acid. 

Grease  your  baking-iron,  and  pour  on  it  a  ladle- 
full  of  the  batter.  When  brown  on  one  side,  turn 
the  cake  on  the  other. 


FLANNEL  CAKES  OR  CRUMPETS.  <* 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 

Four  eggs. 

Three  table-spoonfuls  of  the  best  brewer's  yeast,  or  four  and  a  half 

of  home-made  yeast. 
A  pint  of  milk. 

Mix  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  with  the  flour,  and  set 
the  pan  before   the  fire.     Then  warm   the  milk, 


CAKES.  73 

and  stir  into  it  the  flour,  so  as  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the  yeast. 
Add  the  eggs  and  yeast  to  the  batter,  and  beat  all 
well  together.  If  it  is  too  stiff*,  add  a  little  more 
warm  milk. 

Cover  the  pan  closely,  and  set  it  to  rise  near  the 
fire.  Bake  it,  when  quite  light. 

Have  your  baking-iron  hot.  Grease  it,  and  pour 
on  a  ladle-full  of  batter.  Let  it  bake  slowly,  and 
when  done  on  one  side,  turn  it  on  the  other. 

Butter  the  cakes,  cut  them  across,  and  send  them 
to  table  hot. 


ROL.LS. 


Three  pints  of  flour,  sifted. 

Two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt. 

Four  table-spoonfuls  of  the  best  brewer's  yeast,  or  six  of  home-made 

yeast. 

A  pint  of  luke-vvarm  water. 
Haifa  pint  more  of  warm  water,  and  a  little  more  flour  to  mix  in 

before  the  kneading. 


Mix  the  salt  with  the  flour,  and  make  a  deep  hole 
in  the  middle.  Stir  the  warm  water  into  the  yeast, 
and  pour  it  into  the  hole  in  the  flour.  Stir  it  with 
a  spoon  just  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  and 
sprinkle  some  flour  over  the  top.  Cover  the  pan, 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  several  hours. 

When  it  is  light,  add  half  a  pint  more  of  luke- 
warm water  ;  and  make  it,  with  a  little  more  flour, 
into  a  dough.  Knead  it  very  well  for  ten  minutes, 

7* 


74  CAKES. 

Then  divide  it  into  small  pieces,  and  knead  each 
separately.  Make  them  into  round  cakes  or  rolls. 
Cover  them,  and  set  them  to  rise  about  an  hour 
and  a  half. 

Bake  them,  and  when  done,  let  them  remain  in 
the  oven,  without  the  lid,  for  about  ten  minutes. 


PART   THE    THIRD. 


SWEETMEATS. 


GENERAL    DIRECTIONS. 

I 

IN  preparing  sugar  for  sweetmeats,  let  it  be  en- 
tirely dissolved,  before  you  put  it  on  the  fire.  If 
you  dissolve  it  in  water,  allow  about  half  a  pint  of 
water  to  a  pound  of  sugar. 

If  you  boil  the  sugar  before  you  add  the  fruit  to 
it,  it  will  be  improved  in  clearness,  by  passing  it 
through  a  flannel  bag.  Skim  off  the  brown  scum, 
all  the  time  it  is  boiling. 

If  sweetmeats  are  boiled  too  long,  they  lose  their 
flavour  and  become  of  a  dark  colour. 

If  boiled  too  short  a  time,  they  will  not  keep  well. 

You  may  ascertain  when  jelly  is  done,  by  drop- 
ping a  small  spoonful  into  a  glass  of  water. 

If  it  spreads  and  mixes  with  the  water,  it  requires 
more  boiling.  If  it  sinks  in  a  lump  to  the  bottom, 
it  is  sufficiently  done.  This  trial  must  be  made 
after  the  jelly  is  cold. 

Raspberry  jelly  requires  more  boiling  than  any 
other  sort.  Black  currant  jelly  less. 


78  SWEETMEATS, 

' 


APPLE  JELLY. 


T, 


"ake  the  best  pippin,  or  bell-flower  apples.  No 
others  will  make  good  jelly.  Pare,  core,  and  quar- 
ter1 them.  Lay  them  in  a  brass  or  bell-metal  ket- 
tle, and  put  to  them  as  much  water  only,  as  will 
cover  them,  and  as  much  lemon-p§el  as  you  choose. 
Boil  them  till  they  are  soft,  but  not  till  they  break. 
Drain  off  the  water  through  a  cullender,  and  rnash 
the  apples  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Put  them 
into  a  jelly  bag,  set  a  deep  dish  or  pan  under  it,  and 
squeeze  out  the  juice. 

To  every  pint  of  juice,  allow  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar,  broken  up,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 
Put  the  apple-juice,  the  sugar,  and  the  lemon-juice, 
into  the  preserving  kettle.  Boil  it  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  skimming  it  well.  Take  it  immediately  from 
the  kettle,  and  pour  it  warm  into  your  glasses,  but 
not  so  hot  as  to  break  them.  When  cold,  cover 
each  glass  with  white  paper  dipped  in  brandy,  and 
tie  it  down  tight  with  another  paper.  Keep  them 
in  a  cool  place. 

Quince  Jelly  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  but  do 
not  pare  the  quinces.  Quarter  them  only. 


RED    CURRANT   JELLY. 

Wash  your  currants,  drain  them,  and  pick  them 
from  the  stalks.  Mash  them  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon.  Put  them  in  a  jelly-bag,  and  squeeze  it  till 
all  the  juice  is  pressed  out. 


SWEETMEATS.  79 

To  every  pint  of  juice,  allow  a  pound  of  the  best 
loaf-sugar.  Put  the  juice  and  the  sugar  into  your 
kettle,  and  boil  it  fifteen  minutes,  skimming  it  all 
the  while.  Pour  it  warm  into  your  glasses,  set  it 
for  several  hours  in  the  sun,  and  when  cold,  tie  it 
up  with  brandy  paper.  Jellies  should  never  be  al- 
lowed to  get  cold  in  the  kettle.  If  boiled  too  long, 
they  will  lose  their  flavour,  and  become  of  a  dark 
colour. 

Strawberry,  raspberry,  blackberry,  and  grape 
jelly  may  be1  made  in  the  same  manner,  and  with 
the  some  proportion  of  loaf-sugar. 

Red  currant  jelly  may  also  be  made  in  a  vefy 
simple  manner,  by  putting  the  currants  whole  into 
the  kettle,  with  the  sugar  ;  allowing  a  pound  of  su- 
gar to  a  pound  of  currants.  Boil  them  together 
fifteen  minutes,  skimming  carefully.  Then  pour 
them  into  a  sieve,  with  a  pan  under  it.  Let  them 
drain  through  the  sieve  into  the  pan,  pressing  them 
down  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 

Take  the  jelly,  while  warm,  out  of  the  pan,  and 
put  it  into  your  glasses.  Tie  it  up  with  brandy 
paper  when  cold. 


BLACK    CURRANT   JELLY. 

Pick  the  currants  from  the  stalks,  wash  and  drain 
them.  Mash  them  soft  with  a  spoon,  put  them  in  a 
bag,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  To  each  pint  of 
juice,  allow  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar. 
Put  the  juice  and  sugar  into  a  preserving  kettle, 
and  boil  *'ic  ;  about  ten  minutes,  skimming  them 


80  SWEETMEATS. 

well.  Take  it  immediately  out  of  the  kettle.  Put 
it  warm  into  your  glasses.  Tie  it  up  with  brandy 
papers. 

The  juice  of  black  currants  is  so  very  thick,  that 
it  requires  less  sugar  and  less  boiling  than  any 
other  jelly. 


GOOSEBERRY  JELLY* 

Cut  the  gooseberries  in  half,  (they  must  be  green) 
and  put  them  in  ajar  closely  covered.  Set  the  jar 
in  an  oven,  or  pot  filled  with  boiling  water.  Keep 
the  water  boiling  round  the  jar  till  the  gooseberries 
are  soft,  take  them  out,  mash  them  with  a  spoon, 
and  put  them  into  a  jelly  bag  to  drain.  When  all 
the  juice  is  squeezed  out,  measure  it,  and  to  a  pint 
of  juice,  allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Put  the 
juice  and  sugar  into  the  preserving  kettle,  and  boil 
them  fifteen  minutes,  skimming  them  carefully. 
Put  the  jelly  warm  into  your  glasses.  Tie  them  up 
with  brandy  paper. 

Cranberry  jelly  is  made  in  the  same  manner. 


GRAPE    JELLY. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stems,  wash  and  drain 
them.  Mash  them  with  a  spoon.  Put  them  in  the 
preserving  kettle,  and  cover  them  closely  with  a 
large  plate.  Boil  them  ten  minutes.  Then  pour 
them  into  your  jelly  bag,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice. 


SWEETMEATS.  81 

Allow  a  pint  of  juice  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put 
the  sugar  and  juice  into  your  keitle,  and  boil  them 
fifteen  minutes,  skimming  them  well. 

Fill  your  glasses  while  the  jelly  is  warm,  and  tie 
them  up  with  brandy  papers. 


PEACH    JELLY, 

Wipe  the  wool  off  your  peaches,  (which  should 
be  free-stones,  and  not  too  ripe)  and  cut  them  in 
quarters.  Crack  the  stones,  and  break  the  kernels 
small. 

Put  the  peaches  and  the  kernels  into  a  covered 
jar,  set  them  in  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  till 
the}7  are  soft. 

Strain  them  through  a  jelly-bag,  till  all  the  juice 
is  squeezed  out.  Allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  to 
a  pint  of  juice.  Put  the  sugar  and  juice  into  a 
preserving  kettle,  and  boil  them  fifteen  minutes, 
skimming  carefully. 

Put  the  jelly  warm  into  your  glasses,  and  when 
cold,  tie  them  up  with  brandy  paper. 


Plum,  and  green-gage  jelly  may  be  made  in  the 
same  manner,  with  the  kernels,  which  greatly  im- 
prove the  flavour. 


PRESERYED    QUINCES. 

Pare  and  core  your  quinces,  carefully  taking  out 
the  parts  that  are  knotty  and  defective.  Cut  them 
into  quarters,  or  into  round  slices.  Put  them  into 

8 


86  SWEETMEATS. 

a  preserving  kettle,  and  cover  them  with  the  par- 
ings and  a  very  little  water.  Lay  a  large  plate 
over  them  to  keep  in  the  steam,  and  boil  them  til! 
they  are  tender. 

Take  out  the  quinces,  and  strain  the  liquor 
through  a  bag.  To  every  pint  of  liquor,  allow  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Boil  the  juice  and  sugar  to- 
gether, about  ten  minutes,  skimming  it  well.  Then 
put  in  the  quinces,  and  boil  them  gently  twenty 
minutes.  When  the  sugar  seems  to  have  com- 
pletely penetrated  them,  take  them  out,  put  them 
in  a  glass  jar,  and  pour  the  juice  over  them  wamu 
Tie  them  up,  when  cold,  with  brandy  paper. 

In  preserving  fruit  that  is  boiled  first  without 
the  sugar,  it  is  generally  belter  (after  the  first  boil- 
ing) to  let  ii  stand  till  next  day  before  you  put  the 
sugar  to  it. 


PRESERVED    PIPPINS. 

Pare  and  core  some  of  the  largest  and  finest  pip- 
pins. Put  them  in  your  preserving  kettle,  with 
some  lemon-peel,  and  all  the  apple-parings.  Add 
a  very  little  water,  and  cover  them  closely.  Boil 
them  till  they  are  tender,  taking  care  they  do  not 
burn.  Take  out  the  apples,  and  spread  them  on  a 
large  dish  to  cool.  Pour  the  liquor  into  a  bag,  and 
strain  it  well.  Put  it  into  your  kettle  with  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  and  add  lemon 
juice  to  your  taste.  Boil  it  five  minutes,  skimming 
it  well.  Then  put  in  the  whole  apples,  and  boil 
them  slowly  half  an  hour,  or  till  they  are  quite  soft 
and  clear.  Put  them,  with  the  juice,  into  your  jars, 
and  when  quite  cold,  tie  them  up  with  brandy  paper. 


SWEETMEATS.  83 

Preserved  apples  are  only  intended  for  present 
use,  as  they  will  not  keep  long. 

Pears  may  be  done  in  the  same  way,  either 
whole  or  eut  in  half.  They  may  be  flavoured  eith- 
er with  lemon  or  cinnamon,  or  both.  The  pears 
for  preserving  should  be  green. 

PRESERVED    PEACHES,  V 

Take  the  largest  and  finest  free-stone  peaches, 
before  they  are  too  ripe.  Pare  them,  and  cut 
them  in  halves  or  in  quarters.  Crack  the  stones, 
and  take  out  the  kernels,  and  break  them  in  pieces. 
Put  the  peaches,  with  the  parings  and  kernels,  into 
your  preserving  kettle,  with  a  very  little  water. 
Boil  them  till  they  are  tender.  Take  out  the 
peaches  and  spread  them  on  a  large  dish  to  cool. 
Strain  the  liquor  through  a  bag  or  sieve.  Next 
day,  measure  the  juice,  and  to  each  pint  allow  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Put  the  juice  and  sugar  into 
the  kettle  with  the  peaches,  and  boil  them  slowly 
half  an  hour,  or  till  they  are  quite  soft,  skimming 
all  the  time.  Take  the  peaches  out,  put  them  into 
your  jars,  and  pour  the  warm  liquor  over  them. 
When  cold,  tie  them  up  wilh  brandy  paper. 

If  boiled  too  long,  they  will  look  dull,  and  be  of 
a  dark  colour.* 


If  you  do  not  wish  the  juice  to  be  very  thick,  do 
not  put  it  on  to  boil  with  the  sugar,  but  first  boil  the 

*  To  preserve  peaches  whole,  pare  them  and  thrust  out  the  stones 
with  a  skewer.  Then  proceed  as  above,  only  blanch  the  kernels  and 
keep  them  whole.  When  the  peaches  are  done,  stick  a  kernel  into  the 
bole  of  every  peach,  before  you  put  them  into  the  jars.  Large  fruit 
will  keep  best  in  broad  shallow  stone  pots. 


84  SWEETMEATS. 

sugar  alone,  with  only  as  much  water  as  will  dis- 
solve it,  and  skim  it  well.  Let  the  sugar,  in  all 
cases,  be  entirely  melted  before  it  goes  on  the  fire. 
Having  boiled  the  sugar  and  water,  and  skimmed 
it  to  a  clear  syrup,  then  put  in  your  juice  and  fruit 
together,  and  boil  them  till  completely  penetrated 
with  the  sugar. 


PRESERVED    CRAB    APPLES. 

Wash  your  fruit.  Cover  the  bottom  of  your 
preserving  kettle  with  grape-leaves.  Put  in  the 
apples.  Hang  them  over  the  fire,  with  a  very  lit- 
tle water,  and  cover  them  closely.  Do  not  allow 
them  to  boil,  but  let  them  simmer  gently  till  they 
are  yellow.  Take  them  out,  and  spread  them  on 
a  large  dish  to  cool.  Pare  and  core  them.  Put 
them  again  into  the  kettle,  with  fresh  vine-leaves 
under  and  over  them,  and  a  very  little  water. 
Hang  them  over  the  fire  till  they  are  green.  Do 
not  let  them  boil. 

Take  them  out,  weigh  them,  and  allow  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar  to  a  pound  of  crab-apples.  Put  to 
the  sugar  just  water  enough  to  dissolve  it.  When 
it  is  all  melted,  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  boil  and  skim 
it.  Then  put  in  your  fruit,  and  boil  the  apples  till 
they  are  quite  clear  and  soft.  Put  them  in  jars, 
and  pour  the  warm  liquor  over  them.  When  cold, 
tie  them  up  with  brandy  paper. 


PRESERVED    PL.UMS. 

Cut  your  plums  in   half,  (they  must  not  be  quite 
ripe,)  and  take  out  the  stones.     Weigh  the  plums, 


SWEETMEATS.  85 

and  allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit. 
Crack  the  stones,  take  out  the  kernels  and  break 
them  in  pieces.  Boil  the  plums  and  kernels  very 
slowly  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  in  as  little  water 
as  possible.  Then  spread  them  on  a  large  dish  to 
cool,  and  strain  the  liquor. 

Next  day  make  your  syrup.  Melt  the  sugar  in 
as  little  water  as  will  suffice  to  dissolve  it,  (about 
half  a  pint  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar)  and  boil 
it  a  few  minutes,  skimming  it  till  quite  clear.  Then 
put  in  your  plums  with  the  liquor,  and  boil  them 
fifteen  minutes.  Put  them  in  jars,  pour  the  juice 
over  them  warm,  and  tie  them  up,  when  cold,  with 
brandy  paper.* 

Syrups  may  be  improved  in  clearness,  by  adding 
to  the  dissolved  sugar  and  water,  some  white  of 
egg  very  well  beaten,  allowing  the  white  of  one 
egg  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  it  very  hard, 
and  skim  it  well,  that  it  may  be  quite  clear  before 
you  put  in  your  fruit. 


PRESERVED    STRAWBERRIES. 

Weigh  the  strawberries  after  you  have  picked 
off  the  stems.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar,  which  must  be  powdered. 
Strew  half  of  the  sugar  over  the  strawberries,  and 
let  them  stand  in  a  cold  place  two  or  three  hours. 
Then  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  over  a  slow 

*  Plums  for  common  use,  are  very  good  done  in  molasses.  Put 
your  plums  into  an  earthen  vessel  that  holds  a  gallon,  having  first  slit 
each  plum  with  a  knife.  To  three  quarts  of  plums  put  a  pint  of  mo- 
lasses. Cover  them  and  set  them  on  hot  coals  in  the  chimney  corner. 
Let  them  stew  for  twelve  hours  or  more,  occasionally  61111185  them, 
and  renewing  the  coals.  Next  day  put  them  up  in  jars.  Done  ia  this 
jmanner  they  will  keep  till  the  next  spring. 
8* 


SWEETMEATS. 

fire,  and  by  degrees  strew  on  the  rest  of  the  sugar. 
Boil  them  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  skim 
them  well. 

Put  them  in  wide-mouthed  bottles,  and  when 
cold,  seal  the  corks. 

If  you  wish  to  do  them  whole,  take  them  care- 
fully out  of  the  syrup,  (one  at  a  time)  while  boil- 
ing. Spread  them  to  cool  on  large  dishes,  not  let- 
ting the  strawberries  touch  each  other,  and  when 
cool,  return  them  to  the  syrup,  and  boil  them  a 
little  longer.  Repeat  this  several  times. 

Keep  the  bottles  in  dry  sand,  in  a  place  that  is 
cool  and  not  damp. 

Gooseberries,  currants,  raspberries,  cherries  and 
grapes  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner.  The 
stones  must  be  taken  from  the  cherries  (which 
should  be  morellas,  or  the  largest  and  best  red 
cherries ;)  and  the  seeds  should  be  extracted  from 
the  grapes  with  the  sharp  point  of  a  penknife. 
Gooseberries,  grapes,  and  cherries,  require  longer 
boiling  than  strawberries,  raspberries  or  currants. 


PRESERVED    CRANBERRIES. 

Wash  your  cranberries,  weigh  them,  and  to  each 
pound  allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Dissolve  the 
sugar  in  a  very  little  water,  (about  half  a  pint  of 
water  to  a  pound  of  sugar)  and  set  it  on  the  fire  in 
a  preserving  kettle.  Boil  it  near  ten  minutes, 
skimming  it  well.  Then  put  in  your  cranberries, 
and  boil  them  slowly,  till  they  are  quite  soft,  and 
of  a  fine  colour. 

Put  them  warm  into  your  jars  or  glasses,  and  tie 
them  up  with  brandy  paper,  when  cold. 


SWEETMEATS.  87 

All  sorts  of  sweetmeats  keep  better  in  glasses, 
than  in  stone  or  earthen  jars.  When  opened  for 
use,  they  should  be  tied  up  again  immediately,  as 
exposure  to  the  air  spoils  them. 

Common  glass  tumblers  are  very  convenient  for 
jellies,  and  preserved  small  fruit.  White  jars  are 
better  than  stone  or  earthen,  for  large  fruit. 


PRESERVED    PUMPKIN. 

Cut  slices  from  a  fine  high-coloured  pumpkin, 
and  cut  the  slices  into  chips  about  the  thickness  of 
a  dollar.  The  chips  should  be  of  an  equal  size, 
six  inches  in  length,  and  an  inch  broad.  Weigh 
them,  and  allow  to  each  pound  of  pumpkin  chips, 
a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Have  ready  a  sufficient 
number  of  fine  lemons,  pare  off  the  yellow  rind, 
and  lay  it  aside.  Cut  the  lemons  in  half,  and 
squeeze  the  juice  into  a  bowl.  Allow  a  gill  of 
juice  to  each  pound  of  pumpkin. 

Put  the  pumpkin  into  a  broad  pan,  laying  the  su- 
gar among  it.  Pour  the  lemon-juice  over  it.  Cov- 
er the  pan,  and  let  the  pumpkin  chips,  sugar  and 
lemon-juice,  set  all  night. 

Early  in  the  morning  put  the  whole  into  a  pre- 
serving pan,  and  boil  all  together  (skimming  it 
well)  till  the  pumpkin  becomes  clear  and  crisp,  but 
not  till  it  breaks.  It  should  have  the  appearance 
of  lemon-candy.  You  may,  if  you  choose,  put 
some  lemon-peel  with  it,  cut  in  very  small  pieces. 

Half  an  hour's  boiling  (or  a  little  more)  is  gen- 
erally sufficient. 

When  it  is  done,  take  out  the  pumpkin, spread  it 
on  alarge  dish,and  strain  thesyrupthrough  abag. — 
Put  the  pumpkin  into  your  jars  or  glasses,  pour 
the  syrup  over  it,  and  tie  it  up  with  brandy  paper. 


88  SWEETMEATS. 

If  properly  done,  this  is  a  very  fine  sweetmeat. 
The  taste  of  the  pumpkin  will  be  lost  in  that  of  the 
lemon  and  sugar,  and  the  syrup  is  particularly 
pleasant.  It  is  eaten  without  cream,  like  preserv- 
ed ginger.  It  may  be  laid  on  puff-paste  shells, 
after  they  are  baked. 


PRESERVED    PINE-APPLE. 

Pare  your  pine-apples,  and  cut  them  in  thick 
slices.  Weigh  the  slices,  and  to  each  pound  al- 
low a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in 
a  very  small  quantity  of  water,  stir  it,  and  set  it 
over  the  fire  in  a  preserving-kettle.  Boil  it  ten 
minutes,  skimming  it  well.  Then  put  in  it  the 
pine-apple  slices,  and  boil  them  till  they  are  clear 
and  soft,  but  not  till  they  break.  About  half  an 
hour  (or  perhaps  less  time)  will  suffice.  Let  them 
cool  in  a  large  dish  or  pan,  before  you  put  them 
into  your  jars,  which  you  must  do  carefully,  lest 
they  break.  Pour  the  syrup  over  them.  Tie 
them  up  with  brandy  paper. 


RASPBERRY    JAM. 

Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit. 
Mash  the  raspberries,  and  put  them  with  the  sugar 
into  your  preserving  kettle.  Boil  it  slowly  for  an 
hour,  skimming  it  well.  Tie  it  up  with  brandy 
paper. 

All  jams  are  made  in  the  same  manner. 


APPENDIX. 


CONTENTS. 


A-la-mode  Beef. 
A  boned  Turkey.     - 
Collared  Pork. 
Spiced  Oysters. 
Stewed  Oysters. 
Oyster  Soup. 
Fried  Oysters. 
Baked  Oysters. 
Oyster  Patties. 
Pickled  Oysters. 
Oyster  Sauce. 
Chicken  Salad. 
Lobster  Salad. 
Stewed  Mushrooms. 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS. 


A-LA-MODE    BEEP. 

A  round  of  fresh  beef  weighing  from  eighteen  to  twenty  pound*. 
A  pound  of  the  fat  of  bacon  or  corned  pork. 
The  marrow  from  the  bone  of  the  beef.  ?    u  _     j  t^~~t\,M 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef-suet,  $  ch°PPed  to£elh«r- 

Two  bundles  of  pot-herbs,  parsely,  thyme,  small  onions,  &c.  chop- 
ped fine. 

Two  large  bunches  of  sweet  marjoram,  ?  sufficient  when  powdered 
Two  bunches  of  sweet  basil,  $  to  make  four  table-spoon- 

fuls of each. 

Two  large  nutmegs,         ^ 

Half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  >  beaten  to  a  powder. 

Half  an  ounce  of  mace,  j 

One  table  spoonful  of  salt. 
One  table  spoonful  of  pepper. 
Two  glasses  of  madeira  wine. 



If  your  a-la-mode  beef  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  pre- 
pare it  three  days  before  it  is  wanted. 

Take  out  the  bone.  Fasten  up  the  opening 
with  skewers,  and  tie  the  meat  all  round  with  tape. 
Rub  it  all  over  on  both  sides  with  salt.  A  large 
round  of  beef  will  be  more  tender  than  a  small 
one. 

Chop  the  marrow  and  suet  together.  Pound 
the  spice.  Chop  the^ot-herbs  very  fine.  Pick 
the  sweet-marjoram  and  sweet-basil  clean  from  the 


92  APPENDIX. 

stalks,  and  rub  the  leaves  to  a  powder.  You  must 
have  at  least  four  table-spoonfuls  of  each.  Add 
the  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  well  together  all  the 
ingredients  that  compose  the  seasoning. 

Cut  the  fat  of  the  bacon  or  pork  into  pieces 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  two  inches 
long.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  deep  incisions  all 
over  the  round  of  beef  and  very  near  each  other. 
Put  first  a  little  of  the  seasoning  into  each  hole, 
then  a  slip  of  the  bacon,  pressed  down  hard  and 
covered  with  more  seasoning.  Pour  a  little  wine 
into  each  hole. 

When  you  have  thus  stuffed  the  upper  side  of 
the  beef,  turn  it  over  and  stuff  in  the  same  man- 
ner the  under  side.  If  the  round  is  very  large,  you 
will  require  a  larger  quantity  of  seasoning. 

Put  it  in  a  deep  baking  dish,  pour  over  it  some 
wine,  cover  it,  and  let  it  set  till  next  morning.  It 
will  be  much  the  better  for  lying  all  night  in  the 
seasoning. 

Next  day  put  a  little  water  in  the  dish,  set  it  in 
a  covered  oven,  and  bake  or  stew  it  gently  for 
twelve  hours  at  least,  or  more  if  it  is  a  large  round. 
It  will  be  much  improved  by  stewing  it  in  lard. 
Let  it  remain  all  night  in  the  oven. 

If  it  is  to  be  eaten  hot  at  dinner,  put  it  in  to  stew 
the  evening  before,  and  let  it  cook  till  dinner-time 
next  day.  Stir  some  wine  and  a  beaten  egg  into 
the  gravy. 

If  brought  to  table  cold,  cover  it  all  over  with 
green  parsley,  and  stick  a  large  bunch  of  some- 
thing green  in  the  centre. 

What  is  left  will  make  an  excellent  hash  the 
next  day. 


APPENDIX.  93 


A    BONED    TURKEY. 

A  large  Turkey. 

Three  sixpenny  loaves  of  stale  bread. 

One  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

Four  eggs. 

One  bunch  of  pot-herbs,  parsley,  thyme,  and  little  onions. 

Two  bunches  of  sweet  marjoram. 

Two  bunches  of  sweet  basil. 

Two  nutmegs,  } 

Half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  £  pounded  fine. 

A  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace, ) 

A  table-spoonful  of  salt. 

A  table-spoonful  of  pepper. 

Skewers,  tape,  needle,  and  coarse  thread  will  be  wanted. 

Grate  the  bread,  and  put  the  crusts  in  water  to 
soften.  Then  break  them  up  small  into  the  pan 
of  crumbled  bread.  Cut  up  a  pound  of  butter  in 
the  pan  of  bread.  Rub  the  herbs  to  powder  and 
have  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet-marjoram  and 
two  of  sweet  basil,  or  more  of  each  if  the  turkey 
is  very  large.  Chop  the  pot-herbs,  and  pound  the 
spice.  Then  add  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  all 
the  ingredients  well  together.  Beat  slightly  four 
eggs,  and  mix  them  with  the  seasoning  and  bread 
crumbs. 

After  the  turkey  is  drawn,  take  a  sharp  knife  and 
beginning  at  the  wings,  carefully  separate  the  flesh 
from  the  bone,  scraping  it  down  as  you  go  ;  and 
avoid  tearing  or  breaking  the  skin.  Next,  loosen 
the  flesh  from  the  breast  and  back,  and  then  from 
the  thighs.  It  requires  great  care  and  patience  to 
do  it  nicely.  When  all  the  flesh  is  thus  loosened, 
take  the  turkey  by  the  neck,  give  it  a  pull,  and  the 
skeleton  will  come  out  entire  from  the  flesh,  as 
easily  as  you  draw  your  hand  out  of  a  glove. 
9 


' 

94  APPENDIX. 

The  flesh  will  then  be  a  shapeless  mass.  With  a 
needle  and  thread  mend  or  sew  up  any  holes  that 
may  be  found  in  the  skin. 

Take  up  a  handful  of  the  seasoning,  squeeze  it 
hard  and  proceed  to  stuff  the  turkey  with  it,  be- 
ginning at  the  wings,  next  the  body,  and  then  the 
thighs. 

If  you  stuff  it  properly,  it  will  again  assume  its 
natural  shape.  Stuff  it  very  hard.  When  all  the 
stuffing  is  in,  sew  up  the  breast,  and  skewer  the 
turkey  into  its  proper  form,  so  that  it  will  look  as 
if  it  had  not  been  boned. 

Tie  it  round  with  tape  and  bake  it  three  hours 
or  more.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  giblets  chopped, 
and  enrich  it  with  some  wine  and  an  egg. 

If  the  turkey  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  drop  spoon- 
fuls of  red  currant  jelly  all  over  it,  and  in  the 
dish  round  it. 

A  large  fowl  may  be  boned  and  stuffed  in  the 
same  manner. 


COLLARED  PORK. 

A  leg  of  fresh  pork,  not  large. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  powdered  sage. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  marjoram.  ?  ^  ,„  ,M  , 

One  table-spoonful  of  sweet  basil,  5  Pow<ter«d. 

A  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  ~) 

Half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  >  powdered. 

Two  nutmegs,  3 

A  bunch  of  pot-herbs,  chopped  small. 

A  sixpenny  loaf  of  stale  bread,  grated. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  cut  into  the  bread. 

Two  eggs. 

A  table-spoonful  of  salt. 

A  table-spoonful  of  black  pepper. 

Grate  the  bread,  and  having  softened  the  crust 
in  water,  mix  it  with  the  crumbs.     Prepare  all  the 


APPENDIX. 


95 


other  ingredients,  and  mix  them  well  with  the 
grated  bread  and  egg. 

Take  the  bone  out  of  a  leg  of  pork,  and  rub  the 
meat  well  on  both  sides  with  salt.  Spread  the 
seasoning  thick  all  over  the  meat.  Then  roll  it  up 
very  tightly,  and  tie  it  round  with  tape. 

Put  it  into  a  deep  dish  with  a  little  water,  and 
bake  it  two  hours.  If  eaten  hot,  put  an  egg  and 
some  wine  into  the  gravy.  When  cold,  cut  it 
down  in  round  slices. 


SPICED    OYSTERS. 

Two  hundred  large  fresh  oysters. 

Four  table-spoonfuls  of  strong  vinegar. 

A  nutmeg,  grated. 

Three  dozen  of  cloves,  whole. 

Eight  blades  of  mace,  whole. 

Two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  if  the  oysters  are  fresh. 

Two  tea-spoonfuls  of  whole  allspice. 

As  much  cayenne  pepper  as  will  lie  on  the  point  of  a  knife. 

Put  the  oysters,  with  their  liquor,  into  a  large 
earthen  pitcher.  Add  to  them  the  vinegar  and  all 
the  other  ingredients.  Stir  all  well  together.  Set 
them  in  the  stove,  or  over  a  slow  fire,  keeping 
them  covered.  Take  them  off  the  fire  several 
times,  and  stir  them  to  the  bottom.  As  soon  as 
they  boil  completely,  they  are  sufficiently  done ;  if 
they  boil  too  long  they  will  be  hard. 

Pour  them  directly  out  of  the  pitcher  into  a 
pan,  and  set  them  away  to  cool.  They  must  not 
be  eaten  till  quite  cold,  or  indeed  till  next  day. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  them  a  week,  put  a  smaller 
quantity  of  spice,  or  they  will  taste  too  much  of  it 
by  setting  so  long.  Let  them  be  well  covered. 


96  APPENDIX. 

Oysters  in  the  shell  may  be  kept  all  winter  by 
laying  them  in  a  heap  in  the  cellar,  with  the  con- 
cave side  upwards  to  hold  in  the  liquor.  Sprinkle 
them  every  day  with  strong  salt  and  water,  and 
then  with  indian  meal.  Cover  them  with  matting 
or  an  old  carpet. 

STEWED    OYSTERS. 

Open  the  oysters  and  strain  the  liquor.  Put 
to  them  some  grated  stale  bread,  and  a  little  pep- 
per and  nutmeg.  Throw  them  into  the  liquor, 
and  add  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Let  them  stew  but 
a  very  short  time,  or  they  will  be  hard. 

Have  ready  some  slices  of  buttered  toast  with 
the  crust  cut  off.  When  the  oysters  are  done,  dip 
the  toast  in  the  liquor,  and  lay  the  pieces  round 
the  sides  and  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish.  Pour 
the  oysters  and  liquor  upon  the  toast,  and  send 
them  to  table  hot. 


OYSTER    SOUP.  V 

Three  pints  of  large  fresh  oysters. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour. 

A  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 

A  quart  of  rich  milk. 

Pepper  to  your  taste. 

Take  the  liquor  of  three  pints  of  oysters.  Strain 
it,  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  Put  into  it,  pepper  to 
your  taste,  two  table-spoonfuls. of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  marjoram  and  other 
pot-herbs.  When  it  boils,  add  a  quart  of  rich 
milk  —  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  again,  take  out  the 
herbs,  and  put  in  the  oysters  just  before  you  send 
i  t  to  table. 


APPENDIX.  97 


FRIED    OYSTERS. 

For  frying,  choose  the  largest  and  finest  oys- 
ters. Beat  some  yolks  of  eggs,  and  mix  with  them 
grated  bread,  and  a  small  quantity  of  beaten  nut- 
meg and  mace,  and  a  little  salt.  Having  stirred 
this  batter  well,  dip  your  oysters  into  it,  and  fry 
them  in  lard,  till  they  are  of  a  light  brown  colour. 
Take  care  not  to  do  them  too  much.  Serve  them 
up  hot. 

For  grated  bread,  some  substitute  crackers 
pounded  to  powder,  and  mixed  with  yolk  of  egg 
and  spice. 


BAKED    OYSTERS. 

Grate  a  small  loaf  of  stale-bread.  Butler  a 
deep  dish  well,  and  cover  the  sides  and  bottom 
with  bread  crumbs.  Put  in  half  the  oysters  with 
a  little  mace  and  pepper.  Cover  them  with 
crumbs  and  small  bits  of  butter  strewed  over 
them.  Then  put  in  the  remainder  of  the  oysters. 
Season  them.  Cover  them  as  before  with  crumbs 
and  butter.  If  the  oysters  are  fresh,  pour  in  the 
liquor.  If  they  are  salt  substitute  a  little  water. 
Bake  it  a  very  short  time. 


OYSTER    PATTIES. 

Make  some  rich  puff-piste,  and  bake  it  in  very 
small  tin  patty-pans.  When  cool,  turn  them  out 
upon  a  large  dish. 

Stew  some  large  fresh  oysters  with  a  few  cloves, 
a  little  mace  and  nutmeg,  some  yolk  of  egg  boiled 
hard  and  grated,  a  little  butter,  and  as  much  of  the 


98  APPENDIX. 

oyster  liquor  as  will  cover  them.  When  they 
have  stewed  a  little  while,  take  them  out  of  the 
pan,  and  set  them  away  to  cool.  When  quite 
cold,  lay  two  or  three  oysters  in  each  shell  of 
puff-paste. 


s/ 
PICKLED    OYSTERS. 

Four  hundred  large  fresh  oysters. 

A  pint  of  vinegar. 

Eight  spoonfuls  of  salt. 

A  pint  of  white  wine. 

Six  table-spoonfuls  of  whole  black  pepper. 

Eight  blades  of  mace.  . 

Strain  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  and  boil  it.  Then 
pour  it  hot  over  the  oysters,  and  let  them  lie  in  it 
about  ten  minutes.  Then  take  them  out,  and 
cover  them.  Boil  the  liquor  with  the  salt,  pepper, 
mace,  vinegar  and  wine.  When  cold,  put  the 
oysters  in  a  close  .jar,  and  pour  the  liquor  over 
them.  Cover  the  jar  very  tight,  and  the  oysters 
will  keep  a  long  time. 

If  the  oysters  are  salt,  put  no  salt  to  the  liquor. 


OYSTER    SAUCE. 

When  your  oysters  are  opened,  take  care  of  all 
the  liquor,  and  give  them  one  boil  in  it.  Then 
take  the  oysters  out,  and  put  to  the  liquor  three  or 
four  blades  of  mace.  Add  to  it  some  melted  but- 
ter, and  some  thick  cream  or  rich  milk.  Put  in 
your  oysters  and  give  them  a  boil. 


APPENDIX. 


99 


CHICKEN    SALAD. 

Two  large  cold  fowls,  either  boiled  or  roasted. 

The  yolks  of  nine  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Half  a  pint  of  sweet-oil. 

Haifa  pint  of  vinegar. 

A  gill  of  mixed  mustard.  £* 

A  small  tea-spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper. 

A  small  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 

Two  large  heads,  or  four  small  ones,  of  fine  celery. 

Cut  the  meat  of  the  fowls  from  the  bones,  in 
pieces  not  exceeding  an  inch  in  size. 

Cut  the  white  part  of  the  celery  into  pieces 
about  an  inch  long.  Mix  the  chicken  and  celery 
well  together.  Cover  them  and  set  them  away. 

With  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  mash  the 
yolks  of  eggs  till  they  are  a  perfectly  smooth 
paste.  Mix  them  with  the  oil,  vinegar,  mustard, 
cayenne,  and  salt.  Stir  them  for  a  long  time,  till 
they  are  thoroughly  mixed  and  quite  smooth. 
The  longer  they  are  stirred  the  better.  When 
this  dressing  is  sufficiently  mixed,  cover  it,  and  set 
it  away. 

Five  minutes  before  the  salad  is  to  be  eaten 
pour  the  dressing  over  the  chicken  and  celery,  and 
mix  all  well  together.  If  the  dressing  is  put  on 
long  before  it  is  wanted,  the  salad  will  be  tough 
and  hard. 

This  salad  is  very  excellent  made  of  cold  tur- 
key instead  of  chicken. 


LOBSTER    SALAD. 

•Take  two  large  boiled  lobsters.  Extract  all 
the  meat  from  the  shell,  and  cut  it  up  into  very 
small  pieces. 


100  APPENDIX. 

For  lobster  salad,  you  must  have  lettuce  instead 
of  celery.  Cut  up  the  lettuce  as  small  as  possible. 

Make  a  dressing  as  for  chicken-salad,  with  the 
yolks  of  nine  hard-boiled  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  sweet 
oil,  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  a  gill  of  mustard,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cayenne,  and  a  tea- spoonful  of  salt. 
Mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

A  few  minutes  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  pour  the 
dressing  over  the  lobster  and  lettuce,  and  mix  it 
very  well. 


STEWED    MUSHROOMS. 

Take  a  quart  of  fresh  mushrooms.  Peel  them 
and  cut  off  the  stems.  Season  them  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Put  them  in  a  sauce-pan  or  skillet,  with 
a  lump  of  fresh  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  suf- 
ficient cream  or  rich  milk  to  cover  them.  Put  on 
the  lid  of  the  pan,  and  stew  the  mushrooms  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  keeping  them  well  covered 
or  the  flavour  will  evaporate. 

When  you  take  them  off  the  fire,  have  ready 
one  or  two  beaten  eggs.  Stir  the  eggs  gradually 
into  the  stew,  and  send  it  to  table  in  a  cover- 
ed dish. 


F  I  K  |  ST 


I 


3  DAY  USE 

RETURN  TO 

AGRICULTURE  LIBRARY 
40  Giannini  Hall  -  Tel.  No.  642-4493 

This  publication  is  due  on  the  LAST  DATE 
stamped  below. 


r\  r\  T 

^E  win 

°C  I     1  1983 

fSlatU'Ml  FWSPOTCB8  U.. 
r\n~r         ^    dno^-i 

OCT     ^  1983 

M;^  n  ,|  |QQ 

, 

s         f 

s    f;    ! 

I    -'    i 

-  •. 

|J  ^    '5 

—  -. 

LD  24-20m-9,'70 
(N9593slO)476— A-32 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


