•-    .        •    :.    '-     ■'. 


TX  723 
.M3955 
Copy   1 


Class  JJLX2& 

Book M2> 

Copyright  N° 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


SIMPLE 
OALIAN 


ANTONIA    ISOLA 

cHcS . 


HARPER  &  BROTHERS 
NEW  YORK  AND  LONDON 
M     -     G     -     M     -     X     -     I     -     I 


<*i 


COPYRIGHT.    1912,    BY    HARPER   &    BROTHERS 

°RINTED   IN   THE    UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA 

PUBLISHED    FEBRUARY,    1912 


©CI.A305650 


IK 


K 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 


Soups 3 

Macaroni  and  other  Pastes       9 

Rice,  Etc 18 

Sauces 29 

Eggs 35 

Fish    . 39 

Vegetables 42 

Meats 51 

Salads 58 

Desserts 60 

Index 63 


SIMPLE     ITALIAN 
COOKERY 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN 
COOKERY 

SOUPS 

Beef  Soup  Stock 

(Brodo    di    Came) 

i    pound    of    round    of     }4  pound  of  beef  bones 

beef  2  small  potatoes 

2  quarts  of  water  I  onion 

2    small,    new    carrots,     i     tomato,     fresh     or 
or    yi    of    an    old  canned 

carrot  Parsley- 

Boil  the  beef,  bones,  and  vegetables  in  two  quarts 
of  water  over  a  slow  fire — adding  pepper  and  salt. 
Skim  occasionally,  and  after  two  hours  add  two  table- 
spoons of  sherry;  then  strain  through  fine  soup- 
strainer  or  cheese-cloth.  This  is  the  basis  of  all  the 
following  soups,  except  when  otherwise  stated. 

To  make  this  stock  richer,  add  a  turkey  leg  to  above 
receipt;  boil  one  and  a  half  hours,  then  add  one-half  a 
pound  of  finely  chopped  beef.  Cook  for  half  an  hour 
longer,  then  strain. 

To  make  meat  jelly,  add  a  little  gelatine  to  the  soup 
stock  five  minutes  before  straining. 
3 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

To  give  a  good  dark  color  to  the  stock,  add  a  few 
drops  of  "caramel,"  which  is  prepared  in  the  following 
manner: 

Put  three  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  little  water,  and  until  the  sugar  has 
become  dark  and  reddish ;  then  add  a  little  more  water 
and  boil  again  until  the  sugar  is  melted.  Strain  and 
pour  into  a  bottle  when  the  caramel  will  keep  per- 
fectly for  several  weeks. 

Chicken  Broth 

(Brodo  di  Capone) 

This  is  made  like  the  meat  stock,  substituting  a 
fowl  in  place  of  the  beef  and  bones. 

Rice  Soup 

{Minestra  di  Riso) 
Meat  stock  2    tablespoons    of    rice 

Cover  the  rice  with  water  and  boil  for  ten  minutes; 
then  drain  and  add  to  the  stock  (after  it  has  been 
strained),  and  boil  for  five  or  ten  minutes  more. 

Stracciatella  Soup 

{Minestra  di  Stracciatella) 

1  egg  1      tablespoon      bread 

}4  tablespoon   of   Par-  crumbs 

mesan  cheese 

Beat  the  egg,  yolk  and  white  together;  add  salt  and 
the  cheese,  grated,  and  the  bread  crumbs;  mix  well 
together  and  add  to  the  boiling  stock  (strained).  Stir 
well  with  a  fork  to  prevent  the  egg  from  setting,  and 
boil  for  four  or  five  minutes. 
4 


SOUPS 


Vegetable  Chowder 

(Minestrone  alia  Milanese) 
y2  quart  of  stock  I  cup  of  rice 

2   slices   of   lean  pork,     2  tablespoons  of  dried 

or  a  ham  bone  beans 

2    tomatoes,    fresh     or     1    tablespoon   of   peas, 
canned  fresh  or  canned 

2  onions 

Put  into  the  stock  the  slices  of  pork,  cut  into  small 
pieces;  or,  if  desired,  a  ham  bone  may  be  substituted 
for  the  pork.  Add  the  tomatoes,  cut  into  small  pieces 
also,  the  onions,  in  small  pieces,  and  the  rice.  Boil  all 
together  until  the  rice  is  cooked.  Then  add  the  beans 
and  the  peas  and  cook  a  little  longer.  The  soup  is 
ready  when  it  is  thick.  If  desired,  this  chowder  can 
be  made  with  fish  broth  instead  of  the  stock,  and  with 
the  addition  of  shrimps  which  have  been  taken  from 
their  shells. 

This  dish  can  be  served  hot  or  cold. 

Fish  Broth 

(Brodo  di  Pesce) 

1   liberal  pound   of  1  quart  of  water 

fresh     codfish,     or  1  onion 

any  other  lean  fish  Parsley 

for  boiling  Salt  and  pepper 

Boil  until  fish  is  thoroughly  cooked;  strain  and 
serve. 

Codfish  Soup 

{Zuppa  di  Merluzzo) 
Take  one-half  pound  of  salt  codfish  that  has  been 
soaked,  cut  it  up  into  squares,  but  not  small. 

Prepare  in  a  saucepan  four  tablespoons  of  good  olive- 
2  5 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

oil,  and  one  small  onion  cut  into  pieces.  Cook  the  onion 
in  the  oil  over  a  slow  fire,  without  allowing  the  onion 
to  become  colored,  then  add  a  small  bunch  of  parsley- 
stems,  a  small  piece  of  celery,  a  bay-leaf,  and  a  small 
sprig  of  thyme.  Cool  for  a  few  moments,  then  add 
two  tomatoes,  skinned  and  with  the  seeds  removed, 
and  cut  into  slices,  two  tablespoons  of  dry  white  wine, 
and  one  medium-sized  potato,  peeled  and  cut  into 
slices,  and,  lastly,  one  cup  of  water. 

When  the  potato  is  half  cooked,  add  the  codfish, 
then  one-half  tablespoon  more  of  olive-oil.  Re- 
move the  parsley  stems,  and  put  in  instead  one-half 
tablespoon  of  chopped-up  parsley;  add  a  good  pinch 
of  pepper,  and  some  salt,  if  needed.  When  the  vege- 
tables are  thoroughly  cooked  pour  the  soup  over 
pieces  of  toasted  or  fried  bread,  and  serve. 

Lentil  Soup 

(Brodo  di  Lenticchie) 

3  tablespoons  of  dried     }4  tablespoon  of  butter 
lentils  2  tablespoons  of  cream 

Meat  stock 

Cover  the  lentils  with  water  and  boil  until  they  are 
quite  soft.  Pass  them  through  a  colander  or  a  sieve. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  lentils  and 
cream,  mixing  well,  then  add  a  ladleful  of  the  stock, 
and  boil  for  a  few  minutes;  then  add  the  rest  of  the 
desired  amount  of  stock,  a  ladleful  at  a  time. 

Vegetable  Soup 

(Zuppa  alia  Primaverile) 

Take  some  cabbage,  carrots,  celery,  onions,  turnips, 

lettuce,  squash,  potatoes,  beans,  and  peas.     Chop  each 

into  very  small  pieces,  wash  and  drain.     Take  a  sauce- 

6 


SOUPS 


pan,  put  in  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter;  chop  up 
another  small  piece  of  onion  and  add  to  butter  and  fry 
until  onion  is  golden;  then  add  all  the  vegetables,  salt, 
and  pepper,  and  cover  the  saucepan.  When  the 
vegetables  are  half  cooked,  and  their  juice  has  become 
absorbed,  dissolve  one  tablespoon  of  tomato  paste  in 
one-third  of  a  cup  of  hot  water,  and  add.  Instead  of 
the  tomato  paste  there  may  be  added  to  the  onion, 
before* putting  in  the  vegetables,  one  tomato,  peeled 
and  cut  into  small  pieces.  When  the  tomato  is 
cooked  add  the  vegetables.  Then  add  water,  a  little 
at  a  time,  until  you  have  sufficient  quantity  for  two 
persons.  Take  a  slice  of  bread  and  cut  into  small 
squares  or  diamonds — toast  or  fry  as  desired — put 
these  into  the  soup  plates,  and  pour  the  soup  (with- 
out straining)  over   them. 

Lettuce  Soup 

{Zuppa  di  Lattuga) 
i  small  lettuce  2   tablespoons   of  peas, 

Meat  stock  fresh    or    canned 

2  potatoes  1     heaping    tablespoon 

The  leaves  of  a  head  of  flour 

of  celery 

Put  the  potatoes,  cold  boiled,  into  the  stock  when  it 
boils,  add  the  celery  leaves,  the  lettuce  chopped  up,  the 
peas,  and  the  flour  mixed  well  with  a  little  cold  stock 
or  water.  Boil  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve 
with  little  squares  of  fried  bread. 

Pumpkin  Soup 

(Zuppa  di  Zucca) 

1  slice  of  pumpkin  }i  cup  of  water 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  i}i  cups  of  milk 

1  tablespoon  of  sugar 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Peel  the  pumpkin  and  remove  the  seeds,  cut  into 
small  pieces,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  the  butter, 
the  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the  water.  Boil  for  two 
hours,  then  drain  and  put  back  into  the  saucepan 
with  the  milk,  which  has  been  boiled.  Allow  it  to 
come  to  a  boil,  and  then  serve  it  with  squares  of  fried 
bread. 

Potato  Soup 

(Zuppa  alia  Provinciate) 

2  large  potatoes  2  tablespoons  of  butter 

3  tablespoons  of  cream     2  yolks  of  eggs 

or  milk  Soup  stock 

Boil  the  potatoes,  then  rub  them  through  a  sieve. 
Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  the  butter,  a  little 
salt,  and  the  cream  or  milk.  Simmer  until  it  is  thick, 
then  add  the  yolks  of  the  two  eggs  to  form  it  into  a 
paste.  Turn  out  onto  the  bread-board,  cut  into  small 
dice,  and  throw  them  into  the  stock,  which  must  be 
boiling.  If  desired,  before  serving  sprinkle  a  little 
Parmesan  cheese  into  the  soup. 


MACARONI  AND  OTHER  PASTES 

Macaroni  with  Tomato  Sauce 

(Maccheroni  al  Sugo) 
2  quarts  of  water  y$  pound  of  macaroni 

Boil  the  water  until  it  makes  big  bubbles.  Add 
salt,  then  break  the  macaroni  and  put  it  in.  Cover 
the  saucepan  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  The  sauce- 
pan should  not  be  too  small,  otherwise  the  macaroni 
will  stick  to  the  bottom. 

Prepare  the  sauce  as  follows: 

Take  a  good  slice  of  ham  fat,  and  chop  very  fine 
with  it  a  piece  of  onion,  a  piece  of  celery,  and  some 
parsley.  Then  put  this  into  a  frying-pan  and  cook 
until  the  grease  is  colored.  (If  desired,  add  a  small 
lump  of  butter.)  When  well  colored  add  two  table- 
spoons of  tomato  paste  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water. 
Boil  all  together  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Drain  the  macaroni,  and  put  it  into  the  frying- 
pan  with  the  sauce,  mix  well  with  fork  and  spoon  over 
the  fire,  so  that  the  macaroni  will  be  thoroughly  sea- 
soned, then  add  three  tablespoons  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  mix  again,  and  serve. 

If  no  tomato  paste  is  available  make  the  tomato 
sauce  as  follows: 

Chop  up  fine  one-quarter  of  an  onion,  a  piece  of 
celery  the  length  of  a  finger,  two  or  three  basil-leaves, 
9 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley.  Slice  seven  or  eight 
tomatoes  (fresh  or  canned),  add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
put  all  on  together  to  cook  in  four  tablespoons  of  good 
olive-oil.  Stir  occasionally,  and  when  it  becomes  «,s 
thick  as  cream,  strain,  and  add  the  macaroni  as  before 
directed. 

Macaroni  with  Meat  and  Sauce 

(Maccheroni  al  ~$ugo  di  Came) 

Take  one-half  pound  of  beef  without  fat.  Prepare 
the  ham  fat  as  in  the  preceding  receipt,  chopped  up 
with  onion,  celery,  and  parsley.  Cut  the  meat  into 
several  pieces,  put  it  with  the  fat,  etc.,  into  a  frying- 
pan.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  until  the  meat  is 
colored,  then  add  two  tablespoons  of  wine,  white  or 
red.  When  the  wine  is  absorbed  add  two  tablespoons 
of  tomato  paste  dissolved  in  hot  water.  (Or  tomato 
sauce  as  in  preceding.)  Boil  all  together  for  five 
minutes,  with  cover  on  the  saucepan,  then  add  one 
cup  of  boiling  water,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  until  the 
meat  is  thoroughly  cooked — about  one-half  an  hour. 
Boil  and  strain  the  macaroni  as  before,  and  pour  over 
it  the  sauce  from  the  meat.  Mix  well,  and  serve  with 
the  meat  in  the  middle  and  the  macaroni  around  it, 
with  cheese  (grated  Parmesan)  sprinkled  over  it. 

This  dish  can  be  made  with  veal  or  mutton  instead 
of  the  beef. 

Macaroni  with  Butter  and  Cheese 

(Maccheroni  al  Burro) 

Boil    and  drain  the  macaroni.    Take  four  table- 
spoons  of  table-butter,   three  tablespoons   of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  add  to  the  macaroni  in  the  sauce- 
pan, mix  well  over  the  fire,  and  serve. 
10 


MACARONI    AND    OTHER    PASTES 

Sicilian  Macaroni  with  Eggplant 

Slice  one  eggplant  and  put  it  under  a  weighted  plate 
to  extract  the  bitter  juices.  Then  fry  the  slices  deli- 
cately in  lard.  Make  a  ragout  of  chickens'  hearts 
and  livers  as  follows:  Put  two  tablespoons  of  butter 
into  a  saucepan,  fry  the  hearts  and  livers,  and  when 
cooked  add  two  tablespoons  of  tomato  paste,  thinned 
with  hot  water  (or  a  corresponding  amount  of  tomato 
sauce).     Cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Prepare  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  macaroni, 
boiled  •  and  drained,  then  put  it  into  the  saucepan 
with  the  hearts  and  livers,  add  the  eggplant  and  three 
tablespoons  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Mix  well 
together  and  serve. 

Vermicelli  with  Olive-oil  and  Anchovies 

Take  one-half  pound  of  vermicelli,  boil  in  salted 
water  and  drain.  While  boiling  put  into  a  saucepan 
three  anchovies,  cut  up  fine,  with  four  tablespoons  of 
olive-oil.  Fry  the  anchovies  in  the  oil,  then  put  the 
vermicelli  into  the  saucepan,  mix  well  for  a  few  mo- 
ments on  the  fire,  then  serve. 

Vermicelli  with  Olive-oil,  Olives,  Capers, 
and  Anchovies 

Take  one-half  pound  of  vermicelli  and  cover  it  well 
"with  salted  water.  Cook  for  about  ten  minutes. 
While  it  is  boiling  put  into  a  saucepan  four  table- 
spoons of  olive-oil,  three  anchovies  cut  up  fine  with  six 
olives  (ripe  ones  preferable)  and  one-half  tablespoon 
of  capers.  When  these  are  fried  add  the  vermicelli 
(well  drained),  mix  well,  and  put  the  saucepan  at  the 
back  of  the  stove.  Turn  the  vermicelli  over  with  a 
fork  every  few  minutes  until  it  is  thoroughly  cooked. 
II 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Vermicelli  with  Fish 

Boil  one-half  pound  of  vermicelli  in  salted  water, 
drain,  and  mix  with  two  tablespoons  of  olive-oil  and 
a  little  chopped-up  parsley.  Then  set  to  one  side 
to  get  cool. 

Take  five  smelts,  split  them,  take  out  the  bones,  and 
fry  them  slightly  in  one  teaspoon  of  olive-oil. 

Butter  a  pan  and  sprinkle  it  with  bread  crumbs. 
Then  put  into  it  one-half  of  the  cold  vermicelli.  Pour 
over  this  some  thick  tomato  sauce  (one  tablespoon  of 
tomato  paste  cooked  in  two  tablespoons  of  olive-oil). 
Then  put  in  the  smelts  cut  in  two,  some  anchovy,  a 
few  capers,  and  three  or  four  ripe  olives  chopped  up 
with  one  mushroom.  Then  add  the  rest  of  the  tomato 
sauce,  then  the  other  half  of  the  vermicelli,  and  on 
top  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Season  all  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  the  pan  into  a  moderate  oven,  and 
cook  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  adding  a  little 
olive-oil  when  necessary,  so  that  it  will  not  dry  up 
too  much. 

Any  fish  may  be  used  instead  of  the  smelts,  cutting 
it  into  thin  strips. 

Spaghetti  with  Tunny-fish 

While  one-half  pound  of  spaghetti  is  boiling  in 
salted  water  prepare  the  following:  Take  two  ounces 
of  tunny-fish  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces.  Put 
them  into  a  saucepan  and  fry  them  in  their  own  oil. 
This  oil  is  generally  sufficient,  but  should  it  not  be, 
add  another  tablespoon  of  olive-oil.  When  the  tunny 
have  been  fried  add  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley 
and  four  tomatoes,  peeled  and  the  seeds  removed,  and 
a  pinch  of  pepper.  Let  the  tomatoes  cook  thoroughly. 
When  they  are  cooked  put  the  spaghetti  into  the 


MACARONI    AND    OTHER    PASTES 


saucepan  and  move  them  about  with  a  fork  and  spoon 
until  they  are  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  sauce  and  the 
tunny.    Then  serve. 

Timbale  of  Vermicelli  with  Tomatoes 

(Neapolitan  Receipt) 
Take  ten  medium-sized  fresh  tomatoes  and  cut  them 
in  two^  crosswise.  Put  a  layer  of  these  into  a  baking- 
dish  with  the  liquid  side  touching  the  bottom  of  the 
dish.  Now  put,  another  layer  with  the  liquid  side  up, 
sprinkle  on  salt  and  pepper.  Break  the  raw  vermi- 
celli the  length  of  the  baking-dish  and  put  a  layer  of 
it  on  top  of  the  tomatoes.  Now  add  another  layer  of 
the  tomatoes,  with  the  skin  side  touching  the  vermi- 
celli, a  second  layer  with  the  liquid  side  up,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  another  layer  of  the  raw  vermicelli,  and 
so  on,  the  top  layer  being  of  tomatoes  with  their  liquid 
side  touching  the  vermicelli.  Heat  three  or  four 
tablespoons  of  good  lard  (or  butter),  and  when  the  lard 
boils  pour  it  over  the  tomatoes  and  vermicelli;  then 
put  the  dish  into  the  oven  and  cook  until  the  vermi- 
celli is  thoroughly  done.  After  cooling  a  little  while, 
turn  it  out  into  a  platter. 

Macaroni  "alia  San  Giovannello  " 

While  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  are 
boiling  in  salted  water  prepare  the  following:  Chop 
up  fine  two  ounces  of  ham  fat  with  a  little  parsley. 
Peel  six  medium-sized  tomatoes,  cut  them  open,  remove 
the  seeds,  and  any  hard  or  unripe  parts,  and  put  them 
on  one  side.  Take  a  frying-pan  and  put  into  it  one 
scant  tablespoon  of  butter  and  the  chopped  ham  fat. 
When  the  grease  is  colored  put  in  the  sliced  tomatoes 
with  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  tomatoes  are  cooked 
13 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

and  begin  to  sputter  put  the  macaroni  into  the  pan 
with  them,  mix  well,  add  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
and  serve. 

Ribbon  Macaroni 

(Pasta  fatta  in  Casa.     Fettuccini) 

2}4  cups  of  flour  3   tablespoons   of   cold 

2  eggs  water 

}4  teaspoon  of  salt 

Put  the  flour  on  a  bread-board.  Make  a  hole  in  the 
middle  of  it,  and  break  the  eggs  into  it.  Add  the 
water  and  the  salt,  and  mix  all  together  with  a  fork 
until  the  flour  is  all  absorbed  and  you  have  a  paste 
which  you  can  roll  out.  Then  take  a  rolling-pin  and 
roll  it  out  very  thin,  about  the  thickness  of  a  ten-cent 
piece.  Leave  it  spread  out  like  this  until  it  has  dried 
a  little.  Then  double  it  over  a  number  of  times, 
always  lengthwise,  and  cut  it  across  in  strips  about 
one-half  inch  wide.  Boil  two  quarts  of  salted  water,  and 
put  the  ribbons  into  it,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  then 
drain.  Serve  with  the  meat  and  sauce  as  in  receipt 
for  Macaroni  with  Meat  and  Sauce,  or  with  the  to- 
mato sauce  and  cheese  only,  as  desired. 

Ravioli  with  Meat 

Prepare  the  paste  as  in  the  preceding  receipt. 

Take  whatever  meat  is  desired — chicken,  turkey,  or 
veal — this  must  always  be  cooked.  (Left-over  meat 
may  be  utilized  this  way.)  Chop  the  meat  very  fine, 
add  one  tablespoon  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  one  egg,  sl 
dash  of  nutmeg,  a  dash  of  grated  lemon-peel,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  cold.  Mix  these  ingredients  in  a  bowl. 
Take  a  teaspoon  of  the  mixture  and  put  it  into  the 
extended  paste,  about  two  inches  from  the  edge. 
14 


MACARONI    AND    OTHER    PASTES 

Take  another  spoonful  and  put  it  about  two  inches 
away  from  the  first  spoonful.  Continue  to  do  this 
until  you  have  a  row  of  teaspoonfuls  across  the  paste. 
Then  fold  over  the  edge  of  the  paste  so  as  to  cover  the 
spoonfuls  of  mixture,  and  cut  across  the  paste  at  the 
bottom  of  them.  Then  cut  into  squares  with  the  meat 
in  the  middle  of  each  square;  press  down  the  paste  a 
little  at  the  edges  so  the  meat  cannot  fall  out.  Continue 
to  do  this  until  all  the  meat  and  the  paste  are  used  up. 

Put  the  little  squares  of  paste  and  meat  into  the 
boiling  salted  water  a  few  at  a  time,  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce,  or  butter  and 
grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

Ravioli  with  Brains 

Take  one  lamb's  brains  and  parboil  in  slightly  salted 
water  for  five  minutes.  Put  into  a  bowl  with  a  small 
quantity  of  curds,  one  egg,  salt  and  pepper,  dash  of 
nutmeg,  and  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and 
mix  all  together.  Then  put  by  teaspoonfuls  on  the 
paste  as  in  preceding  receipt.  Cook  for  ten  minutes 
in  boiling  salted  water,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Ravioli  of  Curds  and  Spinach 

i   small   bunch  of       yi    pound     of     curds 
spinach 

Cook  the  spinach,  drain,  and  chop  up  fine,  add  the 
curds,  one  egg,  salt  and  pepper,  dash  of  nutmeg,  and 
a  little  grated  cheese.  Add  to  the  paste,  and  boil  as 
before. 

Sweet  Ravioli 

(Ravioli  Dolce) 
These  ravioli  can  be  used  also  as  a  dessert  by  pre- 
paring them  as  follows: 

15 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Take  yi  pound  of  flour     i  tablespoon  of  butter 
2  tablespoons  of  lard 

Work  this  into  a  paste  and  roll  out  thin. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  curds,  add  one  egg,  and  the 
yolk  of  a  second  egg,  two  tablespoons  of  granulated 
sugar,  a  few  drops  of  extract  of  vanilla.  Mix  well  to- 
gether and  add  to  the  paste  as  before.  Then  fry  in 
lard   until    a   golden   brown.     Serve   with    powdered 

sugar. 

Timbale  of  Macaroni 

Take  a  small  piece  of  ham  fat,  one-half  of  onion, 
piece  of  celery,  parsley,  small  piece  of  carrot.  Chop 
up  fine  together.  Put  into  a  saucepan,  and  when 
the  vegetables  are  fried  add  two  or  three  mushrooms 
which  have  been  chopped  fine;  after  five  minutes  add 
two  tablespoons  of  tomato  paste,  thinned  with  five 
tablespoons  of  hot  water  (or  equal  quantity  of  tomato 
sauce  without  water).  When  the  sauce  is  cooked 
take  out  the  mushrooms  and  put  them  on  one  side. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  macaroni.  Boil  in  salted 
water  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain,  and  add  the  sauce 
described  above.  Add  two  tablespoons  Parmesan 
cheese,  grated,  and  one  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Butter  well  a  mold,  then  cover  with  a  thin  layer 
of  bread  crumbs  the  bottom  and  sides.  Pour  into  the 
mold  one-half  the  macaroni,  then  place  on  it  a  layer 
of  mushrooms  which  you  have  taken  out  of  the  sauce. 
Now  add  the  other  half  of  the  macaroni,  and  then  an- 
other thin  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Put  the  mold  into 
the  oven  without  turning  it  over,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  until  well  browned.     Then  turn  out  and  serve. 

To  this  timbale,  if  desired  for  variety,  cold  meat  of 
any  kind  cut  up  fine  may  be  added  to  the  sauce;  and 
16 


MACARONI    AND    OTHER    PASTES 

one  egg,  hard  boiled,  and  cut  into  four  pieces.  Add 
the  egg,  and  the  pieces  of  meat  which  you  have  re- 
moved from  the  sauce,  to  the  timbale  at  the  same  time 
that  you  add  the  mushrooms. 

Rice  Timbale 

This  timbale  is  made  in  the  same  way  as  the  pre- 
ceding one,  only  substituting  rice  for  macaroni.  One- 
half  cup  of  rice. 

Timbale  of  Ribbon  Macaroni 

This  is  prepared  as  the  two  preceding  ones,  using 
Ribbon  Macaroni  instead  of  rice  or  ordinary  maca- 
roni. 


RICE,  ETC. 


Rice  with  Peas 

yi  cup  of  rice  2  tablespoons  of  butter 

Grated    Parmesan     1  small  onion 
cheese 


Chop  the  onion  up  fine  and  put  it  into  the 
saucepan  with  one-half  the  butter  (one  tablespoon). 
Cook  until  the  onion  is  brown,  then  pour  on  the  rice 
(raw)  and  fry  until  the  rice  is  dry.  Then  add  hot 
water,  a  ladleful  at  a  time,  taking  care  not  to  let  the 
rice  boil  too  hard,  as  it  will  then  become  hard  in  the 
middle  and  floury  around  the  edges.  When  the  rice 
is  cooked,  put  the  saucepan  at  the  back  of  the  stove, 
and  add  the  rest  of  the  butter.  Before  taking  off  the 
stove  add  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  the  peas, 
which  have  been  prepared  as  follows: 

.  Take  a  small  piece  of  ham  fat,  one-half  small  onion, 
and  some  parsley.  Chop  together  fine,  add  three  table- 
spoons of  olive-oil,  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  on  the  fire.  When  the  onion  is  colored  add 
one  can  of  green  peas  (or  fresh  peas,  according  to  sea- 
son). When  the  peas  have  absorbed  all  the  olive-oil 
add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  broth  to  cover  them  (or 
water)  and  cook  until  peas  are  soft.  Then  mix  the 
peas  with  the  rice,  add  one  tablespoon  of  Parmesan 
cheese,  and  serve. 

18 


RICE,    ETC. 


Rice  "alia  Roraana  " 
{Risotto  alia  Romana) 

A  small  piece  of  ham     i  onion 

fat  2    mushrooms    canned, 

i  stalk  of  celery  or    i    fresh   mush- 

Parsley  room 

i  pound  of  lean  beef 

Chop  these  ingredients  together  and  put  them  into 
a  large  saucepan  with  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Cook 
until  the  meat  is  well  browned.  Then  add  one  table- 
spoon of  red  or  white  wine.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  add  one  tablespoon  of  tomato  paste  dissolved  in 
a  little  hot  water,  or  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  of 
the  other  tomato  sauce.  Cook  well,  adding  from  time 
to  time  a  little  water — one-half  cup  in  all.  Wash  the 
rice  (a  little  less  than  a  cupful),  add  it  to  the  other 
ingredients  in  the  saucepan,  and  cook  for  about 
twenty  minutes,  until  the  rice  is  soft,  adding  more 
water  from  time  to  time.  Then  add  two  tablespoons 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  mix  well,  and  serve,  with 
more  cheese  if  desired. 

Risotto  "alia  Nostrale" 

Take  a  small  piece  of  onion,  slice  into  small  bits, 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter.    Cook  until  onion  is  browned. 

Wash  well  one-half  cup  of  rice.  Put  it  into  the 
saucepan  with  the  onion,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
fry  until  the  rice  is  dry.  Then  take  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  of  tomato  paste,  thinned  with  hot  water 
(or  two  tablespoons  of  other  tomato  sauce),  and  add 
to  the  rice.  Little  by  little  add  hot  water  until  the 
rice  is  cooked  through  (about  one  cup  of  hot  water). 
19 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Then  add  grated  cheese,  Parmesan  or  Gruyere,  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  mix  well  over  the 
fire,  then  serve. 

This  rice  can  be  served  alone  or  with  fried  sausages, 
or  with  cold  chicken,  or  any  left-over  meat  prepared 
in  the  following  manner: 

Take  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan.  Cut  the  cold  meat  into  slices,  and  add 
them  to  the  butter.  Fry  well,  then  take  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  of  tomato  paste,  thinned  in  water  (or 
three  tablespoons  tomato  sauce).  Add  to  the  meat  a 
little  at  a  time.  Simmer  for  one-half  hour,  then 
put  into  the  middle  of  hot  platter,  surrounded  by  rice, 
and  pour  this  sauce  over  all.  Add  a  handful  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  to  the  rice. 

This  preparation  of  meat  can  be  served  with  maca- 
roni or  corn-meal  instead  of  the  rice. 

Rice  with  Butter  and  Cheese 

{Riso  in  Bianco) 

Take  one-half  cup  of  rice.  Boil  in  salted  water. 
After  twenty  minutes  of  boiling  take  off  the  fire  and 
drain.  Then  put  the  rice  back  into  a  saucepan  with 
three  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese  (Parmesan)  and 
three  tablespoons  of  butter.  Mix  well  and  serve  as 
an  entree,  or  around  a  plate  of  meat. 

Rice  with  Tomatoes 

Boil  a  cup  of  rice  soft  in  hot  water.  Shake  it 
now  and  then,  but  do  not  stir  it.  Drain  it,  add  a 
little  milk  in  which  a  beaten  egg  has  been  mixed,  one 
teaspoon  of  butter,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 
Simmer  for  five  minutes,  and  if  the  rice  has  not  ab- 
20 


RICE,    ETC 


sorbed  all  the  milk,  drain  it  again.  Put  the  rice 
around  a  dish,  smooth  it  into  a  wall,  wash  it  over 
with  the  yolk  of  a  beaten  egg,  and  put  it  into  the 
oven  until  firm.  Take  the  strained  juice  and  pulp  of 
seven  or  eight  tomatoes,  season  with  pepper,  a  little 
salt  and  sugar,  and  one-half  of  a  chopped-up  onion;  stew 
for  twenty  minutes,  then  stir  in  one  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  two  tablespoons  of  fine  bread  crumbs. 
Stew  three  or  four  minutes  to  thicken,  and  then  pour 
the  tomatoes  into  the  dish,  in  the  middle  of  the  rice, 
and  serve. 

Rice  with  Tomatoes  "  air  Indiana  " 

Wash  a  cup  of  rice  and  boil  it.  Take  seven  or 
eight  good-sized  tomatoes,  boil  and  strain  them,  and 
season  with  salt  and  a  little  allspice.  Take  a  baking- 
dish  and  put  into  it  alternate  layers  of  tomato  and 
rice,  finishing  off  with  a  layer  of  tomato,  covered  up 
with  grated  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  melted 
butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  a  good  half- 
hour. 

Risotto  with  Ham 

Cut  into  small  pieces  one  ounce  of  raw  ham,  fat  and 
lean.  Chop  up  fine  a  small  piece  of  onion,  and  put 
it  with  the  ham  into  a  frying-pan  with  one-half  a  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Fry  slowly  until  the  ham  and  onions 
are  golden.  Then  add  one-half  cup  of  uncooked  rice; 
when  it  has  cooked  for  a  few  minutes,  add  twice  its 
height  of  bouillon  (or  water),  salt  and  pepper,  a  dash 
of  nutmeg,  and  mix  well  and  allow  it  to  boil  for 
twenty  minutes  over  a  good  fire.  Then  take  off 
the  stove,  add  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  two 
tablespoons  of  Parmesan  cheese  grated;  mix  well  and 
serve. 

3  21 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Rice  with  Mushrooms 

10  mushrooms  if  can-     $4  of  a  cup  of  rice 
ned,  or   5  or  6  if 
fresh  ones 

Chop  up  a  little  onion,  parsley,  celery,  and  carrot 
together,  and  put  them  on  the  fire  with  two  table- 
spoons of  good  olive-oil.  When  this  sauce  is  colored, 
add  two  tablespoons  of  tomato  paste,  thinned  with 
hot  water  (or  a  corresponding  quantity  of  tomato 
sauce).  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the  mush- 
rooms into  small  pieces,  and  add  them  to  the  sauce. 
Cook  for  twenty  minutes  over  a  medium  fire.  Put 
on  one  side  and  prepare  the  rice  as  follows: 

Fry  the  rice  with  a  lump  of  butter  until  dry;  then 
add  hot  water,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  boil  gently.  When 
the  rice  is  half  cooked  (after  about  ten  minutes)  add 
the  mushrooms  and  sauce,  and  cook  for  another  ten 
minutes.    Add  grated  Parmesan  cheese  before  serving. 

Polenta 

{Indian  Meal) 

34  of  a  cup  of  yellow    3  cups  of  water 
Indian  meal  (fine) 

Put  the  water  into  a  granite  or  iron  saucepan,  add 
salt.  When  it  begins  to  boil  add  the  Indian  meal, 
little  by  little.  Keep  stirring  constantly  as  you  pour 
it  in,  to  prevent  lumps.  Boil  for  one-half  hour,  stirring 
constantly  over  a  moderate  fire.  If  desired,  a  little 
more  water  may  be  added  if  preferred  not  so  thick. 
Add  grated  cheese  and  butter. 

Polenta  Fritters 

Put  one  pinch  of  salt  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar 
into  a  cup  of  milk,  and  put  it  on  to  boil.    As  soon  as 
22 


RICE,    ETC. 


it  boils  pour  in,  little  by  little,  one-half  scant 
cup  of  fine  Indian  meal,  stirring  constantly  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  Allow  it  to  boil  gently  for  twenty 
minutes. 

Take  it  off  the  stove,  add  one  level  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  little  grated 
lemon-peel.  Beat  up  well  to  mix  the  egg  and  butter. 
Then  turn  the  mixture  onto  the  bread-board,  which 
has  been  dampened;  spread  it  out  to  the  thickness  of 
a  finger.  Allow  it  to  cool,  then  cut  into  squares  or 
diamonds  or  little  rounds,  dip  these  into  egg  and  then 
into  the  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  boiling  lard,  a 
few  at  a  time.    Sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  serve  hot. 

Polenta  "alia  Toscana  " 

2  cups  of  Indian  meal     3  pints  of  cold  water 

Put  the  water  on,  and  when  it  boils  add  salt.  Then 
add  the  Indian  meal,  little  by  little,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Allow  it  to  boil  over  a  moderate  fire  for  one- 
half  hour,  stirring  constantly.  When  the  meal  has  be- 
come quite  stiff,  take  a  wooden  spoon  and  dip  it  into 
hot  water,  and  with  it  detach  the  Indian  meal  from 
the  side  of  the  saucepan,  then  hold  the  saucepan  for 
a  moment  over  the  hottest  part  of  the  fire,  until  the 
Indian  meal  has  become  detached  from  the  bottom. 
Then  turn  it  out  onto  the  bread -board;  it  should  come 
out  whole  in  a  mold.  Let  it  stand  a  few  moments  to 
cool.  Then  with  a  wire  cut  it  into  slices  about  the 
thickness  of  a  finger.  Place  these  slices  on  a  hot 
platter  in  a  layer;  pour  over  them  a  good  meat  gravy 
and  grated  cheese;  then  put  on  another  layer  of  the 
polenta,  and  add  more  gravy  and  cheese,  and  so  on, 
until  your  polenta  is  used  up. 
23 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Polenta  with  Chopped  Sausages 

Prepare  the  Indian  meal  as  in  the  preceding  receipt. 

Take  four  Deerfoot  sausages  (or  two,  if  a  larger 
variety  of  sausage),  remove  the  skins,  chop  fine,  then 
fry  in  butter.  When  they  are  a  nice  brown  add  one 
tablespoon  of  stock,  and  two  tablespoons  of  tomato 
paste  thinned  with  hot  water  (or  a  corresponding 
amount  of  the  tomato  sauce). 

Cook  for  fifteen  minutes  more.  Then  cut  the  po- 
lenta in  slices  as  in  preceding  receipt  and  add  the 
chopped  sausages  with  their  sauce  and  grated  cheese, 
in  layers  as  before. 

Chicken  with  Polenta 

Take  a  small  chicken;  clean  and  prepare  it.  Take 
a  slice  of  ham  fat  four  fingers  wide  and  one  finger 
long  (or  one  tablespoon  of  good  lard).  Chop  up  very 
fine  with  a  chopping  knife,  and  put  into  a  good-sized 
saucepan.  Take  one-half  an  onion,  a  small  carrot, 
a  piece  of  celery,  and  cut  all  into  very  small  pieces  and 
add  them  all  to  the  fat.  Then  put  in  the  chicken,  the 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  allspice,  and  cover  the 
saucepan.  Cook  until  the  chicken  is  covered,  bast- 
ing with  the  grease,  and  turning  the  chicken  until  it 
is  brown  on  all  sides;  then  add  one-third  of  a  glass  of 
red  or  white  wine.  When  the  wine  has  become  ab- 
sorbed, add  one  tablespoon  of  the  tomato  paste,  dis- 
solved in  a  cup  of  hot  water  (or  a  cup  of  tomato 
sauce  not  too  thick).  Cook  for  a  few  moments  more — 
until  the  chicken  is  thoroughly  cooked. 

Prepare  the  Indian  meal  as  in  receipt  for   Indian 
meal,  and  serve  the  chicken  surrounded  by  the  Indian 
meal,   with   the  sauce    poured   over   all   and   grated 
cheese  sprinkled  over  the  Indian  meal. 
24 


RICE,    ETC. 


Pigeon  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  the 
chicken  and  served  with  the  Indian  meal;  or  either 
one  may  be  served  instead  of  the  Indian  meal  with 
rice,  as  in  receipt  for  Risotto  alia  Nostrale;  Macaroni, 
as  in  receipt  for  Macaroni  with  Butter,  or  Ribbon 
Macaroni,  as  in  receipt  given. 

Polenta  Pasticciata 

%  of  a  cup  of  Indian     i  quart  of  milk 
meal 

Boil  the  milk,  and  add  the  Indian  meal,  a  little  at 
a  time,  when  milk  is  boiling,  stirring  constantly.  Cook 
for  one-half  an  hour,  stirring  constantly.  Add  salt  just 
before  taking  off  the  fire.  The  Indian  meal  should  be 
stiff  when  finished.  Turn  it  onto  the  bread-board, 
and  spread  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  two  fingers! 
While  it  is  cooking  prepare  a  meat  sauce,  and  a  Be- 
chamel sauce  as  follows: 

MEAT    SAUCE 

Take  a  small  piece  of  beef,  a  small  piece  of  ham,  fat 
and  lean,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  small  piece  of 
onion,  a  small  piece  of  carrot,  a  small  piece  of  celery,  a 
pinch  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  bouillon  (or  same  amount 
of  water),  pepper.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  dice;  chop 
up  fine  together  the  ham,  onion,  carrot,  and  celery. 
Put  these  all  together  with  some  pepper  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  the  butter,  and  when  the  meat  is  brown,  add 
the  pinch  of  flour,  and  the  bouillon  a  little  at  a  time  (or 
the  water),  and  cook  for  about  one-half  an  hour.  This 
sauce  should  not  be  strained. 

BECHAMEL    SAUCE 

Take  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  one  tablespoon  of 
butter.     Put  them  into  a  saucepan  and  stir  with  a 
25 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

wooden  spoon  until  they  have  become  a  golden-brown 
color.  Then  add,  a  little  at  a  time,  one  pint  of  milk; 
stir  constantly  until  the  sauce  is  as  thick  as  custard, 
and  is  white  in  color.  If  it  grows  too  thick,  a  little 
more  milk  may  be  added;  or  if  it  is  too  thin,  a  tiny 
lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  will  thicken  it. 

Now  take  the  cold  Indian  meal  and  cut  it  into 
squares  about  two  inches  across.  Take  a  baking-dish 
of  medium  depth,  butter  well,  then  put  in  a  layer  of 
squares  of  Indian  meal  close  together,  to  entirely  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Sprinkle  over  it  grated  cheese; 
then  pour  on  the  top  enough  meat  sauce  to  cover  the 
layer  (about  two  tablespoons),  then  on  the  top  of  this 
add  a  layer  of  Bechamel  sauce.  Then  put  another 
layer  of  the  squares  of  Indian  meal,  sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese  as  before,  add  meat  sauce,  then  Bechamel 
sauce,  and  continue  in  this  way  until  the  baking-dish 
is  full,  having  for  the  top  layer  the  Bechamel  sauce. 
Put  the  dish  into  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  until  it 
is  a  golden  brown  on  top. 

Polenta  Cake 

(Migliaccio  di  Farina  Gialla) 

2  cups  of  coarse  Indian     yi  teaspoon  of  salt 

meal  3    teaspoons    of    sugar 

%  cup  of  raisins  (granulated) 

3  tablespoons  of  lard 

Mix  the  salt,  sugar,  and  raisins  with  the  Indian 
meal  in  a  bowl,  then  pour  in  boiling  water,  a  little  at 
a  time,  and  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
you  have  a  stiff  paste  and  no  dry  meal  remains  stick- 
ing to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl. 

Then  take  a  cake-tin  and  grease  it  well  with  one- 
26 


RICE,    ETC. 


half  of  the  lard.  Then  turn  out  the  Indian  meal  into 
the  pan,  and  even  it  out  with  the  wooden  spoon. 
Spread  on  the  top  of  this  the  rest  of  the  lard,  softened 
slightly  so  as  you  can  spread  it  easily.  Cook  in  a  slow 
oven  until  a  golden  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Gnocchi  of  Farina 

{Gnocchi  di  Semolina) 

i  pint  of  milk  }4  cup  of  farina 

i  egg  Butter  and  cheese 

Put  the  milk  on,  and  when  it  boils  add  salt.  Take 
a  wooden  spoon  and,  stirring  constantly,  add  the 
farina  little  by  little.  Cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Take  off  the  fire  and  break  into  the  farina 
one  egg;  mix  very  quickly,  so  that  the  egg  will  not 
have  time  to  set.  Spread  the  farina  onto  the  bread- 
board about  the  height  of  a  finger.  Allow  it  to  cool, 
then  cut  it  into  squares  or  diamonds  about  two  or 
three  inches  across.  Butter  well  a  baking-dish,  and 
put  in  the  bottom  a  layer  of  the  squares  of  farina; 
sprinkle  over  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  (or 
Gruyere),  and  put  here  and  there  a  small  dab  of  butter. 
Then  put  in  another  layer  of  the  squares  of  farina;  add 
cheese  and  butter  as  before.  Continue  in  this  way 
until  your  baking-dish  is  full,  having  on  the  top  layer 
butter  and  cheese. 

Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  a  brown  crust  forms.  Serve 
in  the  baking-dish. 

Gnocchi  of  Potato 

Take  six  medium-sized  potatoes  and  put  them  on 
to  boil  in  their  skins.     When  they  are  done,  peel  them 
and  pass  them  through  a  fine  colander.    Add  a  little 
27 


SIMPLE   ITALIAN    COOKERY 

salt.  Take  one  cup  of  flour,  and  mix  on  the  bread- 
board with  the  potatoes  until  they  form  a  paste. 
Roll  this  paste  with  the  hands  into  a  sausage  about 
the  thickness  of  three  fingers.  Cut  this  roll  across 
into  pieces  about  an  inch  long.  Press  these  pieces 
lightly  with  the  finger  or  the  handle  of  the  knife,  so 
they  will  take  little  cup-shaped  forms.  Leave  these 
to  one  side,  and  put  two  quarts  of  salted  water  on  to 
boil.  When  it  boils  add  the  gnocchi  a  few  at  a  time, 
until  all  are  in  the  water.  When  the  gnocchi  rise  to 
the  surface  of  the  water,  take  them  out  with  the 
skimmer.  Put  them  into  a  platter  a  few  at  a  time, 
adding  each  time  gravy  and  cheese,  and  covering  them 
well.  Put  a  layer  of  grated  cheese  sprinkled  on  top. 
Serve  with  meat,  or  as  a  first  course. 

Gnocchi  of  Milk — a  Dessert 

I  cup  of  milk  2  or  3  drops  of  vanilla 

I    level   tablespoon  of  extract 

powdered  starch        2  yolks  of  eggs 
2  tablespoons  of  sugar 

Put  all  these  ingredients  together  into  a  saucepan 
and  mix  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  a  few  mo- 
ments. Then  put  onto  the  back  of  the  stove  where 
it  is  not  too  hot,  and  cook  until  the  mixture  has  be- 
come stiff.  Cook  a  few  moments  longer,  stirring 
always;  then  turn  out  onto  a  bread-board  and  spread 
to  a  thickness  of  a  finger  and  a  half.  When  cold,  cut 
into  diamonds  or  squares  the  width  of  two  fingers. 
Butter  a  baking-dish,  and  put  the  squares  into  it  over- 
lapping each  other.  Add  a  few  dabs  of  butter  here 
and  there.  Put  another  layer  of  the  squares  in  the 
dish,  more  dabs  of  butter,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is 
full.     Brown  in  the  oven. 

28 


SAUCES 


Roux  for  Sauces 

Roux  is  necessary  to  thicken  and  give  body  to 
sauces.  Put  one  tablespoon  of  flour  and  one  of 
butter  into  a  saucepan  and  cook  until  the  flour  has 
lost  any  raw  taste.  Then  put  the  saucepan  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  and  add  slowly  the  stock  or  milk, 
one  cup  for  every  tablespoon  of  butter  or  flour, 
and  stir  until  smooth.  For  white  sauces  take  care  the 
flour  does  not  color;  for  dark  sauces  let  it  brown,  but 
take  care  it  does  not  burn. 

Agro  Dolce  Sauce 

Take  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  (brown  or  white), 
one-half  a  cup  of  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  bar  of 
grated  chocolate,  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  candied 
orange,  one  of  lemon-peel,  one  of  capers,  and  one  cup 
of  vinegar.  Mix  well  together  and  let  soak  for  two 
hours;  pour  it  over  venison  or  veal,  and  simmer  for  ten 
minutes. 

Bechamel  Sauce  No.  1 

Put  two  ounces  of  butter  and  two  tablespoons 
of  flour  into  a  saucepan  and  stir  for  five  minutes. 
Pour  one  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling  milk  gradually 
in,  beating  well  with  a  whisk.  Add  some  nutmeg,  a 
few  peppercorns,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  some  chopped 
mushrooms.  Cook  for  one-quarter  of  an  hour,  and  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve. 

29 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Bechamel  Sauce  No.  2 

Mix  three  tablespoons  of  butter  and  three  of  flour 
to  a  smooth  paste,  put  some  peppercorns,  one-half  an 
onion,  one-half  a  carrot  sliced,  a  small  piece  of  mace, 
two  teacups  of  white  stock,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  of  grated 
nutmeg,  in  a  stew-pan;  simmer  for  one-half  an  hour, 
stirring  often,  then  add  one  teacup  of  cream;  boil 
at  once,  and  strain  and  serve. 

Tomato  Sauce  No.  1 

Take  ten  fresh  tomatoes,  remove  the  skins,  cut  them 
up;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  and  boil  them  until 
soft.  Then  pass  them  through  a  sieve.  Put  their 
juice  into  a  saucepan  with  one  heaping  tablespoon  of 
butter  or  one-half  tablespoon  of  good  lard,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  boil  again,  adding  water  if  the  sauce  be- 
comes too  thick.  This  sauce  can  be  kept  in  a  bottle 
for  several  days.  It  can  be  used  for  macaroni,  etc., 
in  place  of  the  tomato  paste. 

Tomato  Sauce  No.  2 

Mince  one-quarter  of  an  onion,  one-half  a  stalk  of 
celery,  a  few  leaves  of  sweet  basil,  and  a  bunch  of  pars- 
ley up  fine.  Add  one-half  cup  of  olive-oil,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  one  of  pepper,  and  cut  eight  or  nine  tomatoes 
into  slices.  Boil  until  the  sauce  is  as  thick  as  cream, 
stirring  occasionally,  then  strain  through  a  sieve  and 
serve. 

Tomato  Sauce  No.  3 

Take  four  pounds  of  tomatoes,  cut  them  in  two,  and 
put  them  into  a  two-quart  saucepan  with  two  wine- 
glasses of  water,  two  saltspoons  of  salt,  one  of  pep- 
per, cover  the  saucepan,  and  boil  for  forty  minutes, 
stirring  often  to  prevent  burning;  then  strain.  Make 
30 


SAUCES 


a  roux  in  another  saucepan  with  one  ounce  of  butter 
and  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  flour.  Cook  for 
three  minutes,  mixing  well.  Take  roux  off  the  fire, 
and  pour  the  tomatoes  into  it  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring 
to  keep  it  smooth.  Add  two  wineglasses  of  stock, 
put  on  the  fire,  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring 

all  the  time. 

Butter  Sauce 

Take  eight  ounces  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of 
salt,  one  of  pepper,  and  two  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice.  Stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  over  the  fire  until 
the  butter  is  half  melted,  then  take  it  off  and  continue 
to  stir  until  it  is  quite  liquid.  By  taking  the  butter  off 
the  stove  before  it  is  all  melted  it  will  have  a  pleasant 
taste  of  fresh  cream;    this  is  all  lost  otherwise. 

Lombarda  Sauce 

Put  two  tumblers  of  white  roux  and  one  of  chicken 
jelly  into  a  saucepan,  reduce,  and  add  three  yolks  of 
eggs  mixed  with  two  ounces  of  butter  and  the  juice  of 
one-half  lemon.  Before  it  boils  take  the  saucepan  off  the 
fire,  and  add  one  tumbler  of  thick  tomato  sauce  (see 
Sauces,  page  30),  strain,  and  just  before  serving  add 
one  tablespoon  of  sweet  herbs  minced  fine. 

"Alia  Panna"  Sauce 

Melt  one-half  a  pound  of  butter,  add  a  little  flour, 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  until  thick, 
then  add  one  pint  of  cream,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
and  heat  for  five  minutes. 

Meat  Sauce 

Put  into  a  saucepan  one  pound  of  beef  and  one-half 
an  onion  chopped  up  with  three  ounces  of  lard,  some 
3i 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

parsley,  salt,  pepper,  one  clove,  and  a  very  small 
slice  of  ham.  Fry  these  over  a  hot  fire  for  a  few 
moments,  moving  them  continually,  and  when  the 
onion  is  browned  add  four  tablespoons  of  red  wine, 
and  four  tablespoons  of  tomato  sauce  (or  tomato 
paste).  When  this  sauce  begins  to  sputter,  add,  little 
by  little,  some  boiling  water.  Stick  a  fork  into  the 
meat  from  time  to  time  to  allow  the  juices  to  escape. 
Take  a  little  of  the  sauce  in  a  spoon,  and  when  it  looks 
a  good  golden  color,  and  there  is  a  sufficient  quantity 
to  cover  the  meat,  put  the  covered  saucepan  at  the 
back  of  the  stove  and  allow  it  to  simmer  until  the 
meat  is  thoroughly  cooked.  Then  take  out  the  meat, 
slice  it,  prepare  macaroni,  or  any  paste  you  desire, 
and  serve  it  with  the  meat,  and  the  sauce  poured  over 
all,  and  the  addition  of  butter  and  grated  cheese. 

Economical  Sauce 

Take  one-half  of  an  old  onion  and  chop  it  up  fine. 
Take  one  small  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it,  and  cut  it 
into  transverse  slices;  do  the  same  with  a  stalk  of 
celery,  some  parsley,  and  one  fresh  or  canned  mush- 
room. Then  take  a  slice  of  ham  (raw  if  possible),  fat 
and  lean,  about  four  fingers  wide  and  one  finger  high. 
Chop  it  up  fine,  and  put  it  into  a  medium-sized  sauce- 
pan with  one  tablespoon  of  butter.  When  the  ham 
is  colored,  put  in  the  chopped-up  vegetables,  one  clove, 
salt,  and  pepper,  and  stir  constantly,  allowing  the 
vegetables  to  cook  thoroughly  but  not  to  burn,  which 
will  destroy  the  taste  of  the  sauce.  It  should  be  a 
golden  color.  A  little  red  wine  may  be  added  if  you 
have  it,  but  this  is  not  necessary.  Then  add  four 
fresh  tomatoes,  cut  into  several  pieces,  the  skins  re- 
moved, and  the  seeds  taken  out.  Allow  these  to  cook 
32 


SAUCES 


in  the  sauce  until  they  sputter,  then  add  a  little  water 
(or  bouillon  if  you  have  it) ,  allow  it  to  boil  for  a  few  mo- 
ments more,  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  pass  it  through 
a  sieve  or  fine  colander,  pressing  hard  so  that  all  will 
pass  through.  If  it  is  too  thick  after  straining,  add 
water  or  bouillon,  and  put  it  back  and  allow  it  to  boil 
again  a  few  moments.  This  sauce  can  be  used  for 
macaroni,  gnocchi,  left-over  meat,  egg,  etc.  The  suc- 
cess of  the  sauce  depends  upon  the  proper  frying 
of  the  onion  in  it. 

Hot  Piquante  Sauce 

Chop  up  fine  two  ounces  of  lean  ham  and  a  small 
piece  of  onion,  add  a  little  celery,  the  stalks  of  parsley, 
one  clove,  one-half  tablespoon  of  pepper,  and  one- 
half  bay -leaf .  Pour  over  these  ingredients  a  scant  one- 
half  cup  of  vinegar.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  allow 
it  to  boil  untiL  it  has  consumed  one-half.  Put  into  an- 
other saucepan  one-half  cup  of  bouillon  (or  water  in 
which  you  have  dissolved  one  tablespoon  of  extract  of 
beef).  Allow  it  to  boil,  and  then  thicken  with  a  teaspoon 
of  potato  flour  which  has  been  diluted  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Drop  this,  little  by  little,  into  the  saucepan 
until  you  have  gained  the  required  thickness  for  the 
sauce.  Then  pour  in  the  boiled  vinegar,  passing  it 
through  cheese-cloth.  Mix  well  together  and  add  a 
teaspoon  of  French  mustard,  some  capers,  and  some 
chopped-up  pickles.  Serve  hot  with  meats  or  tongue. 
The  pepper  should  predominate  in  this  sauce. 

Piquante  Sauce  with  Egg 

Take   some   anchovy   paste  —  one  tablespoon,  two 
tablespoons    of    chopped    parsley,    some   capers    and 
chopped   pickles,  one   teaspoon   of   French    mustard, 
33 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

and  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs.  Work  this  all 
together  into  a  paste,  then  add  three  tablespoons  of 
olive-oil  and  two  or  three  of  vinegar  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  pepper.  This  sauce  is  good  with  both  meat 
and  fish. 


EGGS 


Eggs  with  Peas 

Take  one  and  one-half  cups  of  green  peas,  and  cook 
them  with  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  good  butter, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Take  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut 
them  in  two  lengthwise,  and  put  them  on  a  platter; 
pour  over  them  the  peas  as  a  sauce. 

Eggs  "alia  Milanese" 

Hard  boil  four  eggs,  cut  them  in  four  pieces  each, 
put  them  in  a  platter,  and  pour  over  them  the  follow- 
ing sauce: 

CREAM   OF   LEMON   SAUCE 

Take  one  cup  of  cold  water,  and  pour  one-half  of 
it  in  a  bowl  with  one  tablespoon  of  starch,  stir  well 
until  starch  is  dissolved.  Pour  the  other  one-half 
onto  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  powered  sugar  and 
boil  for  a  few  moments — until  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved. Allow  it  to  cool,  and  then  add  the  starch, 
and  one  cup  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  grated 
lemon-rind,  and  two  yolks  of  eggs.  Mix  all  thoroughly, 
then  strain  through  a  sieve,  then  put  on  the  stove  again, 
and  over  a  moderate  fire,  stir  it  constantly,  always  in 
the  same  direction,  until  it  has  assumed  the  thickness  you 
desire. 

Eggs  "alia  Sciarmante" 

Hard  boil  four  eggs;  cut  into  several  pieces.  Then 
prepare  the  following: 

35 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Boil  down  to  a  syrup  one  heaping  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  rind  of  one-quarter  of  lemon,  one  scant  cup  of 
water,  and  a  little  piece  of  cinnamon.  Then  remove 
the  lemon-rind  and  the  cinnamon,  and  add  one  cup  of 
milk  or  cream.  When  heated  through,  take  off  of 
fire,  and  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beating  well  to- 
gether. Then  pour  the"",  sauce  over  the  hard-boiled 
eggs  in  a  shallow  baking-dish,  put  it  in  a  very  moderate 
oven,  and  bake.  Before  serving  squeeze  on  a  little 
lemon  juice  and  garnish  with  squares  of  fried  bread. 

Eggs  with  Piquante  Sauce 

Chop  up  fine  one  pickled  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of 
capers,  one-half  small  pickled  onion  and  one  pickle,  and 
some  parsley.  Dissolve  in  boiling  water  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  add  the  juice  of  one-half  of  lemon,  a  pinch  of 
flour  to  give  a  little  body,  and  the  chopped  pickles. 
If  too  sour  add  some  sugar. 

Hard  boil  four  eggs,  cut  them  in  four,  and  pour 
over  them  the  sauce. 

Eggs  "alia  Monachile" 

Hard  boil  four  eggs,  divide  them  in  half,  and  pour 
over  them  the  following  sauce:  Put  two  tablespoons 
of  vinegar  into  a  saucepan  and  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar  (brown  or  white),  fifteen  almonds  chopped  up 
fine,  and  a  small  piece  of  candied  citron.  Let  it  boil 
for  a  little  while,  then  add  a  pinch  of  cinnamon,  cloves, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  if  too  acid  add  a  little  water. 

Before  taking  off  the  stove  add  a  little  flour  to  give 
body  to  the  sauce.     Pour  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

Eggs  "alia  Fiorentina" 

Hard  boil  four  eggs.  Let  them  cool  in  a  bowl  of 
cold  water.     Peel  them  and  divide  them  in  half.    Take 

36 


EGGS 


the  yolks  and  mix  with  them  one  heaping  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one  tablespoon  of  Parmesan  cheese  grated, 
and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Put  this  mixture  into  a 
saucepan  with  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  and  one- 
half  of  the  white  of  one  egg.  Stir  well  until  the  mix- 
ture becomes* thick.  Then  fill  the  hard-boiled  whites 
of  the  eggs  with  the  stuffing;  if  any  stuffing  remains 
over,  spread  it  on  the  platter  under  the  eggs.  Then 
put  one-half  cup  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  with  one-half 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  one-half  tablespoon  of  flour, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Boil  for  a  few  moments,  stirring 
well,  then  pour  over  the  eggs,  sprinkle  well  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  put  in  the  oven  and  brown. 

Lightning  Omelette 

Butter  a  baking-dish  and  put  in  the  bottom  of  it 
slices  of  stale  bread  (brown  bread  is  better  than  white) 
which  have  been  dipped  in  milk.  Then  put  in  a  layer 
of  very  thin  slices  of  Gruyere  cheese.  Take  two  eggs, 
beat  them  up  to  a  froth,  add  salt  and  pepper,  pour 
them  into  a  baking-dish  on  top  of  the  bread  and  cheese, 
then  put  it  in  the  oven  until  it  is  browned  on  top. 
Serve  hot. 

Eggs  "alia  Piacentina" 

Take  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  beat  until  stiff. 
Then  add  the  yolks  and  one  rounded  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Take  a 
small  baking-dish,  butter  it  well,  and  put  in  the  bot- 
tom a  layer  or  two  of  very  thin  slices  of  cheese,  Par- 
mesan or  Gruyere.  Put  into  the  oven  for  a  few  moments 
until  thoroughly  heated,  then  pour  on  the  whites  of 
eggs  mixed  with  the  other  ingredients,  put  back  in 
the  oven,  and  serve  when  the  eggs  are  a  golden 
brown. 

4  37 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Eggs  "alia  Benedettina  " 

Roast  two  small  peppers,  take  off  their  skins,  re- 
move the  seeds,  and  cut  into  strips.  Take  two  to- 
matoes (not  too  ripe),  boil  them,  remove  the  skins  and 
seeds,  and  cut  into  thin  strips  also.  Then  wash  two 
anchovies,  remove  the  bones,  and  cut  also  into  strips. 
Take  a  small  baking-dish,  put  in  the  strips  of  peppers 
and  tomatoes  and  the  anchovies.  Add  two  table- 
spoons of  good  olive-oil  and  put  on  the  top  of  the 
stove  until  the  ingredients  boil.  Then  break  into  the 
dish  four  eggs,  taking  care  to  keep  the  yolks  whole. 
Add  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  the  dish  into  the  oven 
until  the  eggs  are  cooked. 

Eggs  "alia  Romana" 

Beat  four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  together.  Add  one 
tablespoon  of  milk  or  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  one 
tablespoon  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  a  little 
chopped-up  parsley.  With  this  make  three  or  four 
omelettes  about  the  thickness  of  a  ten-cent  piece.  As 
the  omelettes  are  finished  lay  them  on  a  napkin  to  cool; 
then  cut  them  transversely  into  strips  about  one- 
quarter  of  an  inch  wide.  Then  put  the  strips  into  a 
saucepan  with  some  heated  butter.  Heat  them 
through  thoroughly  and  serve  with  grated  cheese  and 
the  following  meat  sauce  poured  over  them: 

MEAT   SAUCE 

Chop  up  some  ham  fat  with  a  little  onion,  celery, 
carrot,  and  parsley.  Add  a  small .  piece  of  beef  and 
cook  until  beef  is  well  colored.  Then  add  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  of  red  wine  (or  white),  cook  until 
wine  is  absorbed,  then  add  one  tablespoon  of  tomato 
paste  diluted  with  water,  or  four  fresh  tomatoes,  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes. 

33 


FISH 


Codfish  "  alia  Giardiniera  " 

Take  one  pound  of  salted  codfish,  boil  it,  remove  the 
skin  and  bones,  and  shred  it.  Then  take  one  good 
carrot,  one-half  a  turnip,  scrape  them,  cut  them  into 
slices,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  moments.  Then  drain  off 
the  water,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  of  butter  and  finish  cooking  them, 
adding  from  time  to  time  a  little  boiling  water.  When 
the  vegetables  are  cooked  add  the  codfish,  mix  well, 
and  serve. 

Codfish  with  Egg  Sauce 

Take  one  pound  of  salt  codfish.  Boil  it  and  remove 
the  skin  and  bones.  Then  fry  lightly  in  butter,  adding 
chopped-up  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper.  Stir  about  con- 
stantly, and  add  from  time  to  time  a  little  boiling 
water,  until  the  fish  is  thoroughly  cooked.  Then  beat 
up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  add  them  with  a  little 
flour,  and  cook  for  a  few  moments  more.  Squeeze  on 
some  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

Codfish  "alia  Marinaia  " 

Take  one  pound  of  salt  codfish.  Boil  slightly  until 
you  can  remove  the  skin  and  bones.  Chop  up  fine 
a  piece  of  onion,  and  parsley,  and  fry  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  three  tablespoons  of  best  olive-oil,  then  put 
in  the  codfish  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  allspice. 
39 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

While  this  is  cooking,  put  into  another  saucepan  three 
tablespoons  of  best  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  of  fish 
broth,  and  one-half  bay-leaf.  Add  a  little  flour  to 
give  body  to  the  sauce,  stir  well,  then  remove  the  bay- 
leaf,  and  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire.  Arrange  the 
platter  with  pieces  of  fried  bread  in  a  layer  on  the 
bottom,  then  the  codfish,  and  then  the  sauce  poured  over 
it. 

Fresh  Codfish  "al  Vino  Bianco" 

Remove  the  bones  from  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  fresh  codfish.  Cut  into  slices  lengthwise.  Butter 
a  baking-dish,  put  in  the  fish,  put  more  butter  on  top  of 
it,  salt  and  pepper,  and  one-half  glass  of  dry  white  wine. 
Cook  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  then  place  the 
fish  on  a  platter,  take  the  juice  left  over  in  the  baking- 
dish,  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  add  a  little  flour,  some 
more  butter,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Before 
taking  off  the  fire,  add  some  chopped-up  parsley,  and 
then  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish,  and  serve. 

Codfish  with  Green  Peppers 

Take  one-half  pound  of  salted  codfish  which  has 
been  soaked  to  remove  the  saltiness.  Remove  the 
skin  and  bones,  and  cut  the  codfish  into  small  squares. 
Then  dip  it  again  into  fresh  water,  and  put  the  squares 
onto  a  napkin  to  dry.  The  fish  may  either  be  left  as 
it  is,  or  before  proceeding,  you  may  roll  it  in  flour  and 
fry  it  in  lard  or  oil. 

Then  take  two  good-sized  green  peppers,  roast  them 
on  top  of  the  stove,  remove  the  skins  and  seeds,  wash 
them,  dry  them,  and  cut  them  in  narrow  strips.  When 
this  is  done  put  three  generous  tablespoons  of  olive-oil 
into  a  saucepan  with  one  onion  cut  up  small,  and  fry 
the  onion  over  a  slow  fire. 
40 


FISH 

Take  two  big  tomatoes,  skin  them,  remove  the 
seeds  and  hard  parts,  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces. 
When  the  onion  has  taken  a  good  color,  add  the  to- 
matoes, and  cook  until  they  sputter,  then  add  the  pep- 
pers and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  If  the  sauce  is  too 
thick  add  a  little  water.  When  the  peppers  are  half 
cooked,  add  some  chopped-up  parsley  and  the  codfish. 
Cover  up  the  saucepan  and  let  it  simmer  until  the  fish 
is  cooked. 

This  dish  is  also  good  cold. 


VEGETABLES 


Onions  "alia  Parmegiana" 

Take  six  onions.  Take  out  the  centers  with  an  apple- 
corer  and  fill  them  up  with  the  following  stuffing:  One 
tablespoon  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  mixed  with  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  chopped  parsley.  Boil  them  first, 
then  roll  them  in  flour  and  fry  them  in  olive-oil  or 
butter.  Then  put  them  in  a  baking-dish  with  one-half 
tablespoon  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  one  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter.  Put  them  in  the  oven  and  bake  until 
golden. 

Onions  "alia  Veneziana" 

Take  six  small  onions,  remove  the  centers  with  an 
apple-corer.  Boil  them  for  a  few  moments,  drain 
them,  and  stuff  them  with  the  following:  Take  a 
piece  of  bread,  dip  it  in  milk,  squeeze  out  the  milk, 
and  mix  the  bread  with  one  tablespoon  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Mix  well  together,  then  add  some  fine-chopped  parsley, 
a  pinch  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  yolk  of  one 
raw  egg;  mix  again  well,  and  then  stuff  the  onions  with 
the  mixture.  Then  dip  them  in  flour  and  in  egg,  and 
fry  them  in  lard.  Put  them  on  a  platter  and  serve 
with  a  piquante  sauce,  made  as  follows:  Chop  up 
fine  some  pickles,  capers,  and  pickled  pepper,  and  add 
one-half  cup  of  water.  When  these  are  cooked,  add 
one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  cook  a  little  while  longer, 
then  pour  over  the  onions  and  serve. 
42 


VEGETABLES 


Lima  Beans  with  Ham 

Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  lima  beans,  very 
tender  young  ones.  Put  them  in  boiling  water  for 
about  five  minutes  to  whiten  them.  Then  put  into 
a  saucepan  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  some 
chopped  parsley,  and  one  small  onion  chopped  up  fine. 
When  the  onion  is  fried,  add  three  ounces  of  raw  ham, 
also  chopped  up.  When  the  ham  is  fried  put  in  the 
lima  beans,  and  a  little  while  before  they  are  cooked 
add  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  stock.  Serve  with 
dice  of  fried  bread. 

Fried   Squash,  Parsnips,  Celery,  and  Mushrooms 

Take  two  small  squash,  the  smallest  size  possible; 
cut  off  the  two  ends,  divide  them  in  two,  and  slice  them 
in  fine  slices  lengthwise.  Put  them  in  an  earthen  dish 
and  sprinkle  well  with  salt.  Take  one  parsnip,  scrape 
it,  wash  it,  and  boil  it  slightly,  slice  it,  add  it  to  the 
squash  with  more  salt.  Take  the  heart  of  celery,  boil 
for  a  moment,  and  slice  as  with  the  other  vegetables. 
Lastly,  take  some  mushrooms,  not  very  large  ones,  clean 
them,  boil  them  a  moment,  and  add  them  to  the  rest. 
Then  dry  all  the  vegetables  with  a  clean  towel,  mix 
them  all  together,  roll  them  thoroughly  in  flour,  dip  in 
egg,  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  dropping  them  in  carelessly. 
Serve  them  in  a  hot  dish  with  a  napkin  under  them. 

Pumpkin  "alia  Parmegiana  " 

Take  a  slice  of  pumpkin,  remove  the  rind  and  the  seeds, 
cut  into  square  pieces,  and  then  slice  these  into  slivers 
about  the  thickness  of  a  ten-cent  piece.  Boil  these  for 
a  moment  in  salted  water,  drain  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan,  and  fry  in  butter,  with  a  little  salt  and  a 
pinch  of  allspice.  Serve  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
43 


vSIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

and  melted  butter.  Or,  if  preferred,  when  the  pumpkin 
is  fried,  put  it  in  a  baking-dish,  add  thin  slices  of 
cheese  (Parmesan  or  Gruyere),  and  put  it  into  the 
oven  until  browned. 

Fried  Pumpkin 

Take  a  slice  of  pumpkin,  remove  the  rind  and  the 
seeds.  Cut  it  into  strips  as  for  French  fried  potatoes, 
only  finer.  Roll  in  flour  and  dip  in  egg,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard  or  olive-oil. 

If  desired  as  garnishing  for  meat,  cut  the  pumpkin 
exceedingly  fine,  roll  in  flour,  but  not  in  egg,  and  fry. 

Spinach  "alia  Romana" 

Clean  and  prepare  the  spinach.  Put  one  pint  of 
cold  water  with  one  tablespoon  of  salt  on  to  boil,  and 
when  it  boils  put  in  the  spinach.  When  the  spinach  is 
cooked — in  about  ten  minutes — drain  it  in  a  colander, 
and  turn  onto  it  the  cold  water  from  the  faucet  for  a 
few  moments.  Then  squeeze  out  all  the  water  with 
the  hands.  Put  three  tablespoons  of  olive-oil  into  a 
frying-pan;  when  this  is  thoroughly  hot  add  the  spinach, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Cook  for  a  few  moments,  stirring 
well  with  a  fork  and  spoon,  so  the  oil  will  permeate  the 
spinach;  then  serve.    Do  not  chop  the  spinach. 

Spinach  Souffle 

Wash  the  spinach  in  several  waters,  put  it  in  a  cov- 
ered saucepan  on  a  good  fire.  Stir  now  and  then  to 
prevent  burning,  and  after  fifteen  minutes  add  one 
tablespoon  of  salt.  Cook  five  minutes  more;  drain 
and  squeeze  out  the  water.  Then  chop  up  very 
fine.  Put  into  a  saucepan  one  generous  tablespoon 
of  butter,  three-quarters  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir,  and 
44 


VEGETABLES 


when  they  are  half  cooked,  add  the  spinach  and  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  in 
four  or  five  tablespoons  of  cream,  stirring  constantly 
to  prevent  burning.  Take  a  cup  of  spinach,  pre- 
pared as  above,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  mix  it 
with  the  spinach,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  egg 
is  set;  then  let  it  cool,  and  before  serving  stir  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  lightly  into  it.  Fill  china 
cups  or  buttered  papered  forms  half  full,  put  them  into 
a  hot  oven  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve  at 
once.  If  too  little  baked  or  not  served  at  once,  the 
souffle  will  be  spoiled. 

Spinach  "in  Riccioli " 

Boil  the  spinach  and  pass  it  through  a  fine  colander. 
Beat  up  two  eggs,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  enough 
spinach  into  them  to  make  them  green.^  Put  a  little 
olive-oil  into  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  thoroughly 
heated  (but  not  boiling) ,  pour  a  little  of  the  egg,  turning 
the  pan  about  so  that  the  pancake  should  be  as  thin 
as  a  piece  of  paper  and  dry.  Toss  if  necessary.  Take 
it  out;  repeat  with  the  rest  of  the  egg.  Then  take  the 
pancakes,  place  them  one  on  top  of  the  other,  and 
cut  them  into  pieces  the  width  of  a  finger  and  about 
two  inches  long.  Fry  them  in  butter,  and  grate  a  lit- 
tle Parmesan  cheese  over  them.  They  make  a  very 
nice  garnish. 

Spinach  in  a  Mold  with  Mushrooms 

Boil  the  spinach  for  a  few  moments,  drain,  squeeze 
out  the  water,  then  pound  it  well,  and  pass  it  through 
a  fine  colander.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  lump 
of  butter  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Let  it  boil 
for  a  few  moments,  then  turn  it  into  a  dish  and  allow 
45 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

it  to  cool.  When  cold  mix  with  it  the  beaten-up  yolks 
of  two  eggs.  Put  them  into  a  buttered  mold,  leaving 
an  empty  space  in  the  middle.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  about  an  hour.  When  cooked  turn  it  out  onto  a 
dish,  and  fill  up  the  empty  space  with  mushrooms, 
which  you  have  prepared  as  follows:  Wash  and  clean 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  mushrooms  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  good-sized  lump  of  butter,  a  little 
flour,  salt,  and  pepper.  Cook  over  a  brisk  fire  for  ten 
minutes.  Moisten  well  with  chicken  broth  or  stock, 
and  add  some  roux  made  as  follows:  Put  one  table- 
spoon of  flour  and  one  of  butter  into  a  saucepan, 
and  cook  until  the  flour  has  lost  all  raw  taste.  Then 
add  stock  or  milk  as  desired,  slowly  —  one  cup  for 
every  tablespoon  of  butter  or  flour  —  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  on  the 
mushrooms,  put  them  with  their  sauce  into  the  spinach, 
and  serve. 

Flan  of  Vegetables 

Wash,  chop  up  fine,  and  boil  several  vegetables,  a 
potato,  some  spinach,  a  carrot,  and  a  small  beet,  etc., 
then  boil  them  again  in  a  saucepan  with  some  stock; 
then  add  a  half  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  stir  well 
together,  take  them  off  the  stove,  and  let  them  cool. 
When  cool  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  some  grated 
cheese,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  up.  Put 
the  vegetables  into  a  mold  which  has  been  well  but- 
tered and  lined  with  bread  crumbs,  and  cook  in  the 
oven. 

Lettuce  in  the  Oven 

Take  several  young  lettuces,  wash  them  and 
remove  their  wilted  leaves,  tie  the  tops  together, 
and  lay  the  lettuces  side  by  side  in  a  baking-pan 
and  pour  in  one  and  one-half  inches  of  stock.    Cover 

46 


VEGETABLES 


the  pan,  and  put  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one-half  an 
hour,  adding  stock  when  necessary.  Place  a  fork 
under  the  middle  of  each  lettuce,  raise  and  drain,  and 
lay  them  doubled  up  on  a  hot  dish.  Season  the  gravy 
in  the  pan  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  thicken  with 
one  beaten  egg,  and  pour  it  over  the  lettuce.    Serve  hot. 

Cucumbers  "alia  Toscana  " 

Peel  and  blanch  three  or  four  cucumbers  in  boiling 
salted  water  for  five  minutes.  Drain  and  cut  them 
into  pieces  one  inch  thick  and  put  them  into  a  frying- 
pan  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  little  flour,  and 
one-half  pint  of  veal  broth,  stir  well,  and  add  some  salt 
and  pepper.  Reduce  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  stir- 
ring until  it  boils,  add  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  par- 
sley, one-half  a  teaspoon  of  grated  nutmeg,  one- 
half  a  cup  of  cream,  and  the  beaten-up  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Put  on  the  fire  again  for  three  or  four  minutes. 
Do  not  let  boil,  and  serve  hot. 

Cauliflower  "in  S  tufa  to  " 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  and  clean  a  fine  cauli- 
flower. Cut  it  into  several  pieces  and  wash  them  well 
with  cold  water,  put  them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  salted 
water,  and  cook  quickly  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes, 
until  they  are  quite  tender.  Take  them  out  without 
breaking,  and  place  them  on  pieces  of  buttered  toast, 
then  put  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  add  a  little  flour 
mixed  with  some  stock,  stir  well  until  it  boils,  then  add 
several  finely  chopped  mushrooms,  and  cook  a  little 
more.  Take  it  off  the  fire,  and  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  which  have  been  well  beaten,  salt,  pepper, 
grated  nutmeg,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Pour  this 
sauce  over  and  round  the  cauliflower,  and  serve.  The 
sauce  must  not  be  boiled  after  adding  the  eggs. 
47 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Celery  Fried 

Cut  off  the  green  leaves,  and  cut  the  stalks  of  the 
celery  in  pieces  about  an  inch  long.  Wash  them 
and  then  put  them  into  boiling  water  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Then  dry  on  a  napkin.  Beat  up  an  egg 
with  a  little  stock,  or  hot  water,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  the  celery  in,  then  roll  it  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  boiling  lard. 

Celery  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Cut  off  the  green  leaves,  clean  and  wash  the  celery 
stalks,  and  then  throw  them  into  boiling  water  and  boil 
fast  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain,  dry  well,  put  them 
on  a  dish,  and  pour  a  pint  of  tomato  sauce,  or  tomato 
paste  diluted  with  hot  water,  over  them. 

Tomatoes  "alia  Piemontese,, 

Take  four  rather  unripe  tomatoes  of  about  the  same 
size,  put  them  into  boiling  water  and  boil  for  a  few 
minutes.  Cut  off  the  stem  part,  and  take  out  some 
of  the  inside  with  as  many  seeds  as  you  can.  Fill 
them  with  boiled  rice  and  some  mushrooms  chopped 
up  small.  Pour  over  them  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
place  them  in  the  oven  to  color;   serve  hot. 

Tomatoes  "alia  Spagnuola" 

Take  three  or  four  large  ripe  tomatoes  and  boil  them. 
Lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain  until  wanted,  and  then 
pass  them  through  a  fine  hair-sieve.  Put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  and  stir  until  all  the  liquid  is  evaporated. 
Then  add  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  three  or  four  raw 
eggs,  stirring  them  quickly  with  the  tomatoes.  When 
the  eggs  are  cooked,  turn  all  out  into  a  dish  and  serve 
hot. 

48 


VEGETABLES 


Tomatoes  with  Eggs 

Choose  round  tomatoes  of  about  equal  size  and  peel 
them.  Cut  off  their  tops,  take  out  their  insides,  and 
drop  a  raw  egg  into  each,  replacing  the  top  as  cover. 
Put  the  tomatoes  in  a  baking-dish  and  bake  for  about 
ten  minutes,  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Serve  up  in  the 
baking-dish  very  hot,  with  Bechamel  sauce  (see  Sauces, 
page  29),  or  some  brown  gravy. 

Tomato  Pudding 

Scald,  peel,  and  slice  eight  tomatoes.  Squeeze  out 
three-quarters  of  their  juice  into  a  bowl  through  cheese- 
cloth, and  put  it  to  one  side;  then  chop  up  the  pulp  of 
the  tomatoes  with  two  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs, 
a  little  salt,  sugar,  and  pepper,  and  a  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter.  Pour  them  in  a  buttered  mold,  place 
the  mold  in  a  double  boiler,  and  put  on  the  'cover, 
and  boil  hard  for  one  hour.  Then  turn  out  on  a  dish! 
Meanwhile  take  the  juice  of  the  tomatoes,  season  with 
sugar,  salt,  and  pepper,  mix  in  one  tablespoon  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour.  Boil  one  minute,  then  pour  over  the 
pudding  and  serve. 

String-beans  "in  Fricassea" 

Cut  off  the  ends  and  string  some  young  string-beans 
Cook  them  in  salted  water,  then  drain  them  well. 
Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  some  butter,  parsley 
and  chopped  onion.  Be  careful  to  add  occasionally 
some  broth  if  the  beans  dry  up  before  they  are  com- 
pletely cooked.  Boil  slowly,  and  a  few  moments  be- 
fore taking  them  off  the  fire  add  the  yolks  of  one  or 
two  eggs  (according  to  the  quantity  of  beans)  well 
beaten  up  with  a  little  water,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
some  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Stir  from  time  to  time 
49 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

and  never  allow  them  to  boil,  or  the  eggs  will  set.  To 
keep  the  beans  a  good  color  put  a  pinch  of  soda  into 
the  water  with  the  salt. 

String-beans  with  Tomatoes 

Take  some  young  string-beans,  cut  off  the  ends,  and 
string  them.  Wash  them  in  cold  water,  drain,  and 
while  still  wet  put  them  into  a  baking-dish  with  some 
good  olive-oil,  some  chopped  onion  and  parsley,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Put  the  dish  on  the  fire  with  its  cover  on, 
and  cook  slowly.  As  the  beans  dry  add  the  juice  of 
some  tomatoes,  or  some  good  tomato  conserve.  Take 
care  they  do  not  burn. 

Fried  Bread  with  Raisins 

Take  some  rather  stale  bread,  cut  it  into  slices,  re- 
moving the  crust.  Fry  the  bread  in  lard,  and  then 
arrange  it  on  a  platter;  meanwhile  prepare  the  raisins 
as  follows:  Take  a  small  saucepan  and  put  into  it 
two  tablespoons  of  good  raisins,  a  good  slice  of 
raw  ham  chopped  into  small  pieces,  and  a  leaf  of 
sage,  also  chopped  up,  one  tablespoon  of  granulated 
sugar,  and  two  tablespoons  of  good  vinegar.  Put 
these  ingredients  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  you  have 
a  syrup  (stir  constantly)  pour  the  raisins  onto  the 
pieces  of  fried  bread,  and  the  sauce  over  and  around 
them.    Served  with  cold  meat  these  are  very  nice. 


MEATS 

Fried  Sweetbreads,  Croquettes,  Liver,  Etc. 

(Fritto  Misto  alia  Romana) 

Golden  Bread,  Brains,  Sweetbreads,  Croquettes  of 
Chicken  and  Veal  and  Eggs,  Calf's  Liver  and  Pump- 
kin—  all  these  different  ingredients  should  be  fried 
each  in  its  own  manner  as  follows,  a  small  quantity 
of  each,  and  served  all  together  on  one  platter 
with  slices  of  lemon. 

Golden  Bread 

Choose  bread  which  is  elastic,  but  has  no  holes  in  it. 
Remove  the  crust  and  cut  it  in  slices  about  one  inch 
thick,  and  from  these  slices  cut  little  pieces  about 
three  inches  long  and  about  one  inch  wide.  Trim 
them  off  well,  so  they  will  not  be  ragged  or  uneven. 
Put  these  pieces  into  a  bowl  and  throw  on  them  some 
boiling  water,  then  remove  them  immediately  and 
throw  them  into  a  big  bowl  of  cold  water.  This  opera- 
tion should  be  done  quickly,  so  as  to  make  the  bread 
feel  the  impression  of  heat  and  cold,  one  directly  after 
the  other.  Then  take  the  bread  between  the  hands 
and  gently  squeeze  out  the  water  without  breaking 
the  pieces  or  deforming  them.  Place  them  on  a  nap- 
kin to  dry.  Then  dip  them  in  egg  which  has  been 
beaten  up  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Allow 
the  egg  to  soak  well  into  the  bread.  Fifteen  minutes  be- 
5i 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

fore  serving  put  a  frying-pan  on  with  a  quantity  of  lard, 
and  as  soon  as  the  lard  is  lukewarm  put  in  the  pieces 
of  bread,  turn  them  as  soon  as  they  harden  a  little  on 
one  side.  The  bread  must  fry  very  slowly,  and  should 
remain  on  the  fire  at  least  ten  minutes,  so  that  the  heat 
can  penetrate  gradually  into  the  middle  and  make  it 
light.  This  bread  to  be  successful  should  be  hollow 
inside  like  a  fritter  when  finished.  When  the  bread 
has  taken  a  good  golden  color,  remove  from  the  lard, 
drain  it  on  a  napkin,  add  a  little  salt,  and  serve  very 
hot. 

Sweetbreads 
Parboil  the  sweetbreads,  then  cook  them  with  one 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  tablespoon  of  stock. 
When  cooked  cut  them  into  smallish  pieces,  season  with 
pepper,  chopped-up  parsley,  and  one  tablespoon  of 
lemon,  then  roll  them  in  flour;  dip  into  egg  and  fry. 

Fried  Brains 

Take  one  lamb's  brain,  or  one-half  of  a  calf's  brain, 
put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  change  the  water 
from  time  to  time  for  a  couple  of  hours,  until  the  brains 
are  thoroughly  cleansed.  Then  put  them  in  another 
saucepan  with  fresh  water,  and  with  several  pieces  of 
onion,  a  little  salt,  a  little  vinegar  (one  tablespoon 
to  each  brain),  and  some  parsley  stems.  As  soon  as 
the  water  boils,  take  the  saucepan  off,  remove  the 
brains,  and  put  them  onto  a  napkin.  Cut  them  into 
four  pieces,  put  these  pieces  onto  a  plate,  and 
season  with  a  little  olive-oil,  some  lemon  juice, 
and  chopped  parsley.  When  you  are  ready  to  fry, 
roll  in  flour,  dip  in  egg,  and  fry  the  brain  over  a 
moderate  fire  for  seven  or  eight  minutes  in  olive-oil, 
lard,  or  butter. 

52 


MEATS 


Calf's  Liver  Fried 

Remove  the  skin,  and  cut  into  slices  large  but  thin,  roll 
in  flour,  dip  in  egg,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard,  allowing  them 
to  remain  in  the  frying-pan  only  a  couple  of  minutes; 
then  drain  on  a  napkin,  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt,  and  serve. 

Polenta  Croquettes 

Boil  one-half  cup  of  corn-meal  rather  hard,  and  be- 
fore removing  from  the  fire  add  a  piece  of  butter  and 
a  little  grated  cheese  and  mix  well.  Take  it  then  by 
spoonfuls  and  let  it  fall  onto  a  marble-top  table,  or  a 
bread-pan  which  has  been  wet  a  little  with  cold  water. 
These  spoonfuls  should  form  little  balls  about  the  size 
of  a  hen's  egg.  On  each  of  these  croquettes  place  a 
very  thin  slice  of  Gruyere  cheese,  so  that  the  cheese 
will  adhere  to  the  corn-meal.  Then  allow  them  to  cool, 
and  when  cold  dip  into  egg,  then  into  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

Egg  Croquettes 

Hard  boil  two  eggs,  remove  the  shells,  dry  them,  and 
cut  the  eggs  in  minute  pieces.  Put  one  tablespoon 
of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  it  is  melted  add 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  flour;  stir  constantly 
for  a  few  moments  over  a  slow  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
taking  care  that  the  flour  does  not  color.  Then  pour 
in  one-third  of  a  cup  of  milk,  in  which  you  have  put 
salt  and  pepper.  Cool  this  sauce  for  eight  or  ten 
minutes,  stirring  continually  to  make  it  smooth,  then 
remove  from  the  fire,  put  in  the  chopped-up  egg,  some 
parsley  chopped  fine,  and  one-half  tablespoon  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  When  you  have  mixed  these  ingredi- 
ents well  together,  spread  them  out  on  a  plate  or 
marble  and  allow  to  cool.  When  this  has  become  cold 
5  S3 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

and  hardened,  with  a  wooden  spoon  divide  it  into 
little  portions  about  the  size  of  a  nut.  Take  these  and 
roll  them  in  dried  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  flour.  Roll 
them  all  then,  one  at  a  time,  with  a  rotary  motion,  and 
then  elongate  the  balls  until  they  are  the  shape  of 
ordinary  corks,  then  dip  the  croquettes  into  the  egg,  one 
at  a  time,  then  into  bread  crumbs  again,  and  a  few  mo- 
ments before  serving  fry  in  boiling  lard.  As  soon  as 
they  are  colored  remove  them  immediately  from  the 
lard,  otherwise  they  will  break  to  pieces. 

Polenta  Fritters,  Fried  Pumpkin,  Fried  Squash,  and 
Parsnips  may  also  be  added  or  substituted  if  desired. 

Little  Filets  "alia  Napolitana  " 

Butter  well  a  frying-pan,  and  sprinkle  over  the  bot- 
tom a  piece  of  lean  ham  (raw  if  possible)  chopped  up 
fine.  Then  a  layer  of  mushrooms  chopped  fine,  then 
a  layer  of  minced  parsley.  The  bottom  of  the  pan  should 
be  entirely  covered  with  these  three  ingredients.  Then 
from  a  filet  of  beef  cut  some  little  slices,  about  one- 
half  an  inch  thick  and  round  in  shape.  Put  these  in 
the  frying-pan,  one  piece  near  the  other,  so  the  bottom 
shall  be  covered.  Sprinkle  on  salt  and  pepper,  and 
put  it  on  the  fire.  When  the  filets  are  cooked,  on  one 
side,  turn  them  over  on  the  other,  but  with  care,  so 
the  ingredients  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan  will  stick  to 
the  meat.  When  the  filets  are  cooked  on  both  sides, 
squeeze  on  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  add  a  little 
meat  stock.  Put  the  filets  on  a  platter,  and  pour  over 
them  their  sauce,  and  serve  with  croutons  (fried  bread). 

Involtini  of  Beef  "  alia  Siciliana  " 

Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef,  two  ounces 
of  ham,  one  tablespoon  of  butter  (or  one-half  table- 

54 


MEATS 


spoon  of  lard),  some  bread,  some  parsley,  and  a  piece 
of  onion.  Chop  up  the  onion  fine  and  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  butter  (or  lard).  When  it  is  colored, 
put  in  the  parsley  and  the  ham  cut  up  into  little  pieces, 
at  the  same  time  add  the  bread  cut  up  into  three 
or  four  small  dice,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg. 
Mix  all  together  well.  Cut  the  meat  into  six  slices, 
pound  them  to  flatten  out;  salt  slightly,  and  when  the 
other  ingredients  are  cooked,  put  a  portion  on  each 
slice  of  meat.  Then  roll  up  the  meat  like  sausages, 
put  them  on  skewers,  alternating  with  a  piece  of  fried 
bread  of  the  same  size.  Butter  well,  roll  in  fresh 
bread  crumbs,  and  broil  on  the  gridiron  over  a  slow 
fire.    These  are  nice  served  with  salad. 

Polpettone  "alia  Napolitana  " 

Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  lean  beef  without 
skin  or  bones  from  the  rump-steak,  flatten  it  out  with 
a  knife  in  a  manner  to  widen  it  without  tearing  the 
meat.  Salt  and  pepper  it.  Then  take  one  and  one- 
half  ounces  of  ham,  fat  and  lean,  and  chop  it  up  fine 
with  a  little  piece  of  onion,  some  parsley,  and  some 
thyme,  then  add  twice  its  volume  of  fresh  bread 
crumbs  (which  have  been  dipped  in  water  and  squeezed 
out) .  When  the  bread  has  been  well  mixed  add  the  yolk 
of  one  egg  and  mix  again  well,  spread  this  mixture  all 
over  the  surface  of  the  beef,  leveling  it  off  with  a  knife. 
Then  sprinkle  on  a  few  raisins,  and  then  roll  up  the 
meat  like  a  cigar,  but  bigger  in  the  middle  than  at  the 
ends.  Tie  it  up  then,  crosswise  and  lengthwise,  and 
brown  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  lard  and  some 
ham.  As  soon  as  it  colors  add  some  chopped-up 
pieces  of  onion,  celery,  carrot,  and  one  clove.  When 
these  vegetables  are  cooked  add  several  pieces  of 
55 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

tomato,  and  let  the  meat  simmer  for  about  two  hours, 
basting  it  now  and  then.  When  the  meat  is  cooked 
remove  the  string,  place  the  polpettone  on  a  platter, 
strain  the  sauce  through  a  sieve,  pour  it  over  the  meat, 
and  serve. 

Bocconcini 

Cut  up  the  meat,  lamb,  veal,  mutton,  or  fresh  pork 
into  pieces  about  two  inches  wide.  Sprinkle  on  salt 
and  pepper  and  put  them  aside.  Then  cut  an  equal 
number  of  pieces  of  bread  about  one-half  inch  thick, 
and  a  little  bit  bigger  then  the  pieces  of  meat.  Next 
cut  pieces  of  ham,  fat  and  lean,  the  same  size  as  the 
pieces  of  meat,  but  double  the  number.  Then  take  a 
skewer  (or  two  if  one  is  not  sufficient),  and  put  on  it 
first  a  piece  of  bread,  then  a  piece  of  ham,  then  a  leaf 
of  sage,  then  one  of  the  pieces  of  meat,  then  another 
leaf  of  sage,  then  the  ham,  then  the  bread,  and  so  on 
in  this  order,  having  always  the  meat  between  two  leaves 
of  sage,  two  slices  of  ham,  and  two  pieces  of  bread. 
Coat  everything  well,  and  especially  the  bread,  with 
olive-oil  or  melted  butter,  and  then  broil  them  over 
a  hot  fire  for  a  good  one-quarter  of  an  hour,  turn- 
ing them  constantly  until  they  are  colored  a  golden 
brown  and  are  crisp.  If  preferred,  these  can  be  cooked 
in  the  oven.  Put  them  on  several  wooden  skewers, 
and  lay  them  in  a  pan  and  cook  until  brown  and  crisp. 
Serve  with  lettuce  salad. 

Meat  with  Ribbon  Macaroni 

Take  a  piece  of  ham  fat,  one  finger  high  and  four 
fingers  wide,  chop  up  fine  with  a  piece  of  onion,  piece 
of  celery,  piece  of  carrot,  and  put  into  a  saucepan. 
Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  meat,  either  lamb, 
veal,  beef,  or  fresh  pork,  cut  it  into  several  pieces, 
56 


MEATS 


salt  and  pepper  it,  and  put  a  pinch  of  allspice,  then  put 
it  into  the  saucepan;  cook  it  until  it  is  well  colored, 
then  add  two  tablespoons  of  red  or  white  wine. 
When  it  is  absorbed  add  one  tablespoon  of  tomato 
paste,  dissolved  in  water,  or  tomato  sauce  of  fresh 
tomatoes  (receipt  Tomato  Sauce  No.  i).  Cook  over 
a  moderate  fire,  one  hour  longer  if  the  meat  is  veal 
or  lamb,  and  one  and  one-half  hours  to  two  hours 
for  pork  or  beef,  adding  water  if  necessary. 

This  meat  can  be  served  with  Ribbon  Macaroni. 
Put  the  meat  in  the  middle,  the  macaroni  around  it, 
and  the  sauce  over  all,  adding  two  tablespoons  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  to  the  macaroni  after  it  is 
boiled,  and  mixing  well  before  putting  it  on  the  platter. 
Sprinkle  on  a  little  more  cheese  before  carrying  to  the 
table. 

This  dish  can  be  made  equally  well  with  left-over 
meats  of  any  kind,  turkey  being  especially  good  served 
this  way. 


SALADS 


Salad  "del  Prevosto" 

Boil  in  their  skins  three  good-sized  potatoes,  peel 
them  and  slice  them,  then  put  them  into  a  salad  bowl, 
and  pour  over  them  one-half  a  glass  of  white  wine. 
Do  this  about  two  or  three  hours  before  they  are 
wanted,  so  the  potatoes  will  have  time  thoroughly  to 
absorb  the  wine.  From  time  to  time  mix  them  with 
a  fork  and  spoon  to  let  the  wine  permeate.  A  few 
minutes  before  the  meal  make  a  good  French  salad 
dressing,  add  some  pickled  peppers  cut  up,  some 
capers,  and  some  chopped-up  parsley,  pour  on  the 
French  dressing,  mix  up  well,  and  serve. 

The  Cardinal's  Salad 

Wash  a  good  lettuce  and  a  bunch  of  water-cress. 
Cut  a  cold  boiled  beef  into  strips,  add  six  radishes, 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  up,  and  one  small 
sliced  cucumber.  Arrange  the  lettuce-leaves  in  a 
salad-bowl,  mix  the  other  ingredients  with  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  mayonnaise  sauce,  put  them  in  the  midst 
of  the  lettuce,  and  serve. 

Endive  Salad 

Take  a  head  of  endive,  wash  it  and  dry  it  well,  and 
put  it  into  a  salad-bowl.    Pour  over  it  three  table- 
spoons   of   good    olive-oil.     Mix    one    tablespoon  of 
58 


SALADS 


honey  (or  sugar),  one  of  vinegar,  and  salt  and  pepper 
in  a  cup,  and  pour  over  the  salad  just  before  serving. 

Italian  Salad 

Cut  one  carrot  and  one  turnip  into  slices,  and  cook 
them  in  boiling  soup.  When  cold,  mix  them  with  two 
cold  boiled  potatoes  and  one  beet  cut  into  strips.  Add 
a  very  little  chopped  leeks  or  onion,  pour  some  sauce, 
"Lombarda"  (see  Sauces,  page  31),  over  the  salad, 
and  garnish  with  water-cress. 

44  Alia  Pollastra"  Salad 

Chop  up  six  lettuce-leaves  and  three  stalks  of  celery, 
cut  up  the  remains  of  a  cold  fowl  in  small  pieces,  and 
mix  with  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  salt  and 
pepper  in  a  salad  bowl.  Pour  a  cup  of  mayonnaise 
sauce  over,  and  garnish  with  quarters  of  hard-boiled 
egg,  one  tablespoon  of  capers,  six  stoned  olives,  and 
some  small,  tender  lettuce-leaves. 

"Alia  Macedoine"  Salad 

Cut  into  small  pieces  one  cold  boiled  beet  and  half 
an  onion.  Add  some  cold  boiled  string-beans,  some 
cold  boiled  asparagus  tips,  two  tablespoons  of  cold 
cooked  peas,  one  cold  boiled  carrot,  and  some  celery. 
Mix  them  together,  and  pour  over  all  a  mayonnaise 
sauce.   Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  serve. 


DESSERTS 


Chestnut  Fritters 

Take  twenty  good  chestnuts  and  roast  them  on  a 
slow  fire  so  that  they  won't  color.  Remove  the  shells 
without  breaking  the  nuts,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  one  level  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar 
and  one-half  glass  of  milk  and  a  little  vanilla.  Cover 
the  saucepan  and  let  it  cook  slowly  (simmer)  for  more 
than  a  half -hour.  Then  drain  the  chestnuts  and  pass 
them  through  a  sieve.  Put  them  back  in  a  bowl  with 
one-half  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  and  mix  well  without  cooking.  Allow  them  to 
cool,  and  then  take  a  small  portion  at  a  time,  the  size 
of  a  nut,  roll  them,  dip  them  in  egg,  and  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  and  lard,  a  few  at  a  time. 
Serve  hot  with  powdered  sugar. 

Chestnuts  "alia  Lucifero  " 

Take  forty  good  chestnuts  and  roast  them  over  a 
slow  fire.  Do  not  allow  them  to  become  dried  up  or 
colored.  Remove  the  shells  carefully,  put  them  in 
a  bowl,  and  pour  over  them  one -half  a  glass  of  rum 
and  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar. 
Set  fire  to  the  rum  and  baste  the  chestnuts  constantly 
as  long  as  the  rum  will  burn,  turning  the  chestnuts 
60 


DESSERTS 


about   so  they  will    absorb    the    rum   and   become 
colored. 

Peaches  with  Wine 

Take  four  very  ripe  peaches,  cut  them  in  two,  take 
out  the  stones,  peel  them,  and  cut  them  in  thin  slices. 
Put  them  in  a  bowl  and  cover  them  up  until  wanted. 
Put  in  a  saucepan  one  glass  of  red  wine,  two  table- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar,  a  piece  of  cinnamon,  and 
a  piece  of  a  rind  of  lemon.  Boil  these  together,  and 
then  pour  the  liquid  over  the  peaches  in  the  bowl  while 
still  boiling.  Cover  the  bowl,  and  allow  it  to  stand  for 
at  least  two  hours.  Then  turn  into  the  dish  in  which 
you  will  serve  the  peaches  and  the  wine. 

Hot  Wine 

Put  into  the  saucepan  one  pint  of  red  or  white  wine, 
the  first  preferred.  Add  two  heaping  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  a  piece  of  rind  of  lemon  or  orange,  and  a 
small  stick  of  cinnamon.  Put  it  onto  the  fire  and 
stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  When  the  wine 
boils,  strain  it  through  some  cheese-cloth  and  pour  it 
into  glasses,  and  serve  hot. 

Milk  of  Almond  Ice 

Take  one-half  pound  of  almonds.  Remove  the 
shells  and  skins,  and  put  them  into  a  large  receptacle 
of  cold  water.  Add  three  bitter  almonds  to  the  num- 
ber. Remove  them  from  the  water,  and  pound  them 
up  in  a  bowl,  adding  from  time  to  time  a  little  water. 
Then  add  more  water  and  put  them  into  a  cheese-cloth 
and  wring  it,  to  extract  all  the  juices  you  can.  Then 
pound  them  some  more,  adding  water,  and  squeeze 
out  as  before.  To  the  milk  you  have  extracted  from 
the  almonds  add  four  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar 
61 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

and  one-half  tablespoon  of  orange  water;  put  into  the 
freezer  and  freeze. 

If  desired,  you  can  put  half  the  quantity  of  almonds 
and  the  other  half  of  cantaloup  seeds,  pound  together, 
and  proceed  in  the  same  manner.  This  combination 
is  refreshing  and  delicious.  •  ' 


INDEX 


A 

Agro  Dolce  Sauce,  29. 
"Alia  Macedoine"  Salad,  59. 
"Alia  Panna"  Sauce,  31. 
"Alia  Pollastra"  Salad,  59. 

B 

Bechamel  Sauce,  25. 

Sauce  No.  1,  29. 

Sauce  No.  2,  30. 
Beef  Soup  Stock,  3,  4. 
Bocconcini,  56. 
Bread,  Fried,  with  Raisins,  50. 

Golden,  51. 
Butter  Sauce,  31. 

C 

Calf's  Brains,  Fried,  52. 
Liver,  Fried,  53. 
Caramel,  for  soup  stock,  4. 
Cardinal's  Salad,  58. 
Cauliflower  "in  Stufato,"  47. 
Celery,  Fried,  43,  48. 

with  Tomato  Sauce,  48. 
63 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Chestnut  Fritters,  60. 
Chestnuts  "alia  Lucifero,"  60. 
Chicken,  Broth,  4. 

with  Polenta,  24. 
Codfish,  "alia  Giardiniera,"  39. 

"alia  Marinaia,"  39,  40. 

"alia  Vino  Bianco,"  40. 

Soup,  5. 

with  Egg  Sauce,  39. 

with  Green  Peppers,  40,  41. 
Cream  of  Lemon  Sauce,  35. 
Cucumbers  "alia  Toscana,"  47. 

D 

"Del  Prevosta"  Salad,  58. 
Desserts,  Section  on,  60-62. 


E 


Economical  Sauce,  32,  ^3- 
Egg  Croquettes,  53,  54. 

with  Piquante  Sauce,  2>2>- 
Eggs,  Section  on,  35-40. 
Eggs,  "alia  Benedettina,"  38. 

"alia  Fiorentina,"  36. 

"alia  Milanese,"  35. 

"alia  Monachile,"  36. 

"alia  Piacentina,"  37. 

"alia  Romana,"  38. 

"alia  Sciarmante,"  35. 

Lightning  Omelette,  37. 

with  Peas,  35. 
Endive  Salad,  ^. 

64 


INDEX 


Filets,  little,  "alia  Napolitana,"  54. 

Fish  Broth,  5. 

Fish,  Section  on,  39-41. 

Flan  of  Vegetables,  46. 

Fried  Squash,  Parsnips,  Celery,  and  Mushrooms,  43. 

Fritters,  Polenta,  22. 


Chestnut,  60. 


Gnocchi,  of  Farina,  27. 

of  Milk,  28. 

of  Potato,  27. 
Golden  Bread,  51. 


Hot  Piquante  Sauce,  33. 
Hot  Wine,  61. 


H 


Indian  Meal  (Polenta),  22. 

Involtini  of  Beef  "alia  Siciliana,"  54. 

Italian  Salad,  59. 


Lamb's  Brains,  fried,  52. 

Lentil  Soup,  6. 

Lettuce  in  the  Oven,  46. 

Lettuce  Soup,  7. 

Lima  Beans  with  Ham,  43. 

Little  Filets  "alia  Napolitana,"  54. 

Lombarda  Sauce,  31. 

65 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

M 

Macaroni  and  Other  Pastes,  Section  on,  9-17. 
Macaroni,  "alia  San  Giovannello,"  13. 

Ribbon,  14. 

Sicilian,  with  Eggplant,  11. 

Timbale  of,  16. 

Timbale  of  Ribbon,  1 7. 

with  Butter  and  Cheese,  10. 

with  Meat  and  Sauce,  10. 

with  Tomato  Sauce,  9. 
Meat,  Sauce,  25,  31,  32,  38. 

with  Ribbon  Macaroni,  56,  57. 
Meats,  Section  on,  51-57. 
Milk  of  Almond  Ice,  61,  62. 
Mushrooms,  Fried,  43. 

with  Rice,  22. 

O 

Onions  "alia  Parmegiana,"  42. 
"alia  Veneziana,"  42. 


Parsnips,  Fried,  43. 
Peaches  with  Wine,  61. 
Piquante  Sauce  with  Eggs,  36. 
Polenta,  "alia  Toscana,"  23. 

Cake,  26,  27. 

Croquettes,  53. 

Fritters,  22,  23. 

Indian  Meal,  22. 

Pasticciata,  25. 

with  Chicken,  24. 

with  Chopped  Sausages,  24. 
66 


INDEX 


Polpettone  "alia  Napolitana,"  55,  56. 

Potato  Soup,  8. 

Pumpkin,  "alia  Parmegiana,"  43. 

Fried,  44. 

Soup,  7,  8. 

R 

Ravioli,  of  Curds  and  Spinach,  15. 
Sweet,  15. 
with  Brains,  15. 
with  Bread,  14. 
Rice,  etc.,  Section  on,  18-28. 
Rice,  "alia  Nostrale,"  19,  20. 
"alia  Romana,"  19. 
Soup,  4. 
Timbale,  17. 

with  Butter  and  Cheese,  20. 
with  Ham,  21. 
with  Mushrooms,  22. 
with  Peas,  18. 
with  Tomatoes,  20,  21. 
with  Tomatoes  "all'  Indiana,"  21; 
Risotto  "alia  Nostrale,"  19. 

with  Ham,  21. 
Roux  for  Sauces,  29. 


Salads,  Section  on,  58-59. 
Sauces,  Roux  for,  29. 
Sauces,  Section  on,  29-34. 
Sausages,  Chopped,  with  Polenta,  24. 
Soups,  Section  on,  3-8. 
Spaghetti  with  Tunny-fish,  12. 


SIMPLE    ITALIAN    COOKERY 

Spinach,  aalla  Romana,"  44. 

in  a  mold  with  Mushrooms,  45,  46. 

"in  Riccioli,"  45. 

Souffle,  44,  45. 
Squash,  Fried,  43. 
Stracciatella  Soup,  4. 
String-beans,  "in  Fricassea,"  49. 
with  Tomatoes,  50. 
Sweetbreads,  Fried,  52. 

T 

Timbale,  of  Macaroni,  16. 

of  Ribbon  Macaroni,  17. 
of  Vermicelli  with  Tomatoes,  13. 
Tomato  Sauce,  9,  10. 

Sauce  No.  1,  30. 
Sauce  No.  2,  30. 
Sauce  No.  3,  30. 
Pudding,  49. 
Tomatoes,  "alia  Piemontese,"  48. 
"alia  Spagnuola,"  48. 
with  Eggs,  49. 
with  String-beans,  50. 

V 
Vegetables,  Section  on,  42-50. 
Vegetable,  Chowder,  5. 

Soup,  6,  7. 
Vermicelli,  Timbale  of,  with  Tomatoes,  13. 
with  Fish,  12. 

with  Olive-oil  and  Anchovies,  11. 
with  Olive-oil,  Olives,  Capers  and  Ancho- 
vies, 11. 

W 
Wine,  Hot,  61. 

the  end 


FEB    W   WW 


One  copy  del.  to  Cat.  Div. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  358  421  5  • 


- 


