TX 

fe943 


-  »g~- 


Something-Different  111 


i 


Class 


Rook        ■         — 


Copyright  N°_ 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


"  Toad  in   the  Hole 


"  Dog   in  a   Blanket  "   is  an  old  Creole   dish 


"  Bubble  and  Squeak  " 


THE 
SOMETHING-DIFFERENT 
DISH 


BY 

MARION  HARRIS  NEIL,  M.C.A. 

COOKERY  EDITOR  THE  LADIES'  HOME  JOURNAL,  AUTHOR  OF    "  HOW  TO  COOK  IN  CASSE- 
ROLE DISHES,"  '-  CANDIES  AND  BONBONS  AND  HOW  TO  MAKE  THEM," 
AND  "  CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND  PICKLING  " 


PHILADELPHIA 

DAVID  McKAY,  PUBLISHER 

604-608  South  Washington  Square 


Copyright,  19 15,  by 
David  McKay 


JUL  -3  1915 
,Cf.A406573 


TO  MY  SISTER 


PREFACE 

I  do  not  pretend  to  claim  originality  for  the  fol- 
lowing one  hundred  recipes  for  making  dishes  that 
are  different,  but  I  guarantee  that  all  have  been 
tried  and  tested,  and  care  has  been  taken  to  see 
that  they  are  simple  and  practical. 

The  illustrations  and  one-half  of  the  recipes  ap- 
peared in  the  Cookery  columns  of  The  Ladies' 
Home  Journal  during  the  last  five  years,  from 
whence  they  have  been  gathered  at  the  request  of 
many  readers,  to  save  reference  to  back  issues  not 
always  within  reach. 

The  courtesy  of  The  Ladies'  Home  Journal  is 
acknowledged  with  sincere  thanks  for  permission 
to  use  the  pictures  and  recipes  in  book  form. 

Marion  Harris  Neil. 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Soup  Recipes J3 

Fish  Recipes 2I 

Meat  Recipes 29 

Chicken  Recipes 43 

Puddings 51 

Cakes 69 

Miscellaneous  Recipes i©7 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


Bubble  and  Squeak  ^) 

Dog  in  a  Blanket      V Frontispiece 

Toad  in  the  Hole     J 

Maids  of  Honor Facing  Page 

King  Henry's  Shoestrings 

Kickshaws 

Petticoat  Tails 

Rough  Robin 

Carpet  Bag 

Love  in  Disguise 

Poor  Man's  Goose 

Stoved  Howtodie 

Country  Captains 

Jenny  Lind 

Flimsy 

Huff 

Doctor  Johnson 

Scotch  Mist 

Spotted  Dick 

Nun's  Sighs 

Faggots 

Log  of  Wood  and  Bird  Cake 

Tops  and  Bottoms 

Bachelor's  Buttons 

No  Matters 


13  V 

13 

21 
21 
21 
30 
30 
30 
45 

45 
5i 
5i 
5i 
56 
56 
56 
69 
69 
69 
72 
72 
72 


io  Illustrations 

Philpy FacingPage    75 

Parliaments " 

Siamese  Twins " 

Cry  Babies « 

Love  Wells " 

Irresistibles " 

LOBS-LlE-BY-THE-FlRE "  "  03. 

Cat's  Tongues " 

Pikelets " 

Fat  Rascals " 

Bird's-Nest  Cake " 

Devils  on  Horseback " 

Tom  Thumbs " 


75 
75 
83 
83 
83 


93 

"  93 

"  94 

"  94 

"  "3 

"  ii3 

Hopping  John "         "  H3 

Salmagundi "         "  IXg 

Hen's-Nest  Eggs "         "  n9 

Bedspreads "        "  n9 


SOUP  RECIPES 


Maids  of  Honor  " 


'T  -  -*• 


King  Henry's  Shoestrings 


SOUP  RECIPES 


COCK-A-LEEKIE 

i  capon  or  old  fowl  i  tablespoonful  chopped 

8  or  9  leeks  parsley 

2  quarts  (8  cups)  cold  4  tablespoonfuls  rice 

water  Salt  and  white  pepper  to 

taste 

Draw  and  truss  the  fowl  as  for  boiling.  Put  it 
into  a  soup  pot  with  the  water.  Add  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  the  giblets  carefully  washed.  Bring 
to  boiling  point  and  skim  well.  Then  simmer  for 
two  hours,  skimming  occasionally.  Take  off  the 
outside  skins.  Remove  the  roots  and  most  of  the 
green  from  the  leeks,  and  split  them  in  halves 
lengthways.  Wash  and  rinse  them  well,  cut  in 
thin  slices  and  wash  again.  Drain  and  add  them 
to  the  soup  with  the  rice.  Simmer  until  the  fowl 
is  tender.  To  serve,  lift  out  the  bird  and  the 
giblets  from  the  soup,  remove  all  grease  from  the 
top  and  add  the  parsley  and  seasonings. 

13 


14  The  Something-Different  Dish 

The  fowl  may  either  be  served  whole  with 
parsley  sauce  poured  over  it,  or  half  of  it  may  be 
cut  in  neat  pieces,  then  served  in  the  soup,  and 
the  other  half  reserved  for  croquettes  or  some 
other  dish.  Sometimes  this  soup  is  thickened 
with  fine  oatmeal.  A  few  stewed  prunes  are 
sometimes  served  in  Cock-A-Leekie. 

Frequently  an  old  cock  is  used  for  making  this 
soup  which  gives  the  recipe  its  name.  This  soup 
is  an  excellent  stomachic,  and  is  said  to  be  capable 
of  curing  a  severe  cold.  Mrs.  Isabella  Beeton 
states  that  Cock-A-Leekie  was  largely  consumed 
at  the  Burns'  Centenary  Festival  at  the  Crystal 
Palace,   Sydenham,   1859. 


YOUNG  FISHERMAN 

3    lbs.    different    kinds  1  teaspoonful  vinegar 

fresh  water  fish  1  teaspoonful  soy 

2  carrots  2  turnips 

1  large  tomato  1  stalk  celery 

1  leek  Salt,  pepper  and  paprika 

2  onions  to  taste 
Bunch  sweet  herbs  Water 


Soup  Recipes  15 

Cut  the  turnips  and  celery  into  small  pieces, 
boil  until  tender  and  drain.  Wash  the  fish,  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  the  sliced  tomato, 
chopped  carrots,  sliced  leek,  herbs  and  the  onions 
sliced  and  fried  in  a  little  butter;  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  let  them  stew  until  the  whole  is  re- 
duced to  a  pulp,  which  will  be  in  about  an  hour. 
Strain  off  the  liquor,  and  let  it  simmer  for  another 
hour.  Add  the  turnips  and  celery,  with  the  vine- 
gar, soy  and  seasonings  to  taste.    Serve  hot. 


MULLIGATAWNY 

1*4  lbs.  lean  mutton  1  dessertspoonful  curry 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls)  powder 

butter  or  drippings  1  teaspoonf  ul  curry  paste 

3  pints  (6  cups)  cold  water  \]/2  ozs.  (6  tablespoon- 

or  stock  fuls)  flour 

2  onions  ^2  pint  (1  cup)  hot  milk 

1  sour  apple  1  tablespoonful  chutney 

4  tablespoonfuls  chopped  1  bunch  herbs 

ham  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Yz  small  carrot  1  lemon 

yi  small  turnip  Boiled  rice 

Wipe   the  meat  and  cut  it  in   small  pieces. 


16  The  Something-Different  Dish 

Melt  the  butter  or  drippings  in  a  saucepan,  add 
to  it  the  apple  and  vegetables  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  cook  for  five  minutes  over  the  fire.  Add  the 
curry  powder,  curry  paste,  chutney  and  flour, 
and  mix  well;  then  add  the  water  or  stock,  meat, 
herbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  over  the  fire  for  five 
minutes  and  then  simmer  for  two  hours,  skim- 
ming when  necessary.  When  ready,  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  basin.  Lift  out  the 
best  pieces  of  the  meat  for  serving  in  the  soup 
and  rub  as  much  as  possible  of  the  remainder 
through  the  sieve. 

Rinse  out  the  saucepan  and  return  the  soup 
to  it  with  the  meat.  Season  carefully,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  the  hot  milk 
just  before  serving.  Serve  the  soup  with  plain 
boiled  rice.  If  liked  a  lemon  cut  in  quarters  may 
also  be  handed. 

The  addition  of  a  little  cream  is  a  great  improve- 
ment to  this  soup. 

Mulligatawny  signifies  pepper-water.  It  seems 
to  have  come  into  fashion  at  the  time  Dr.  Kitch- 
ener  wrote   his   famous    "Cook's   Oracle."    He 


Soup  Recipes  17 

speaks  of  it  as  a  fashionable  soup,  and  a  great 
favorite  with  our  East  Indian  friends.  In  a  foot- 
note he  says,  "The  progress  of  inexperienced, 
peripatetic  politicians  has  lately  been  arrested  by 
this  outlandish  word  being  pasted  in  the  windows 
of  our  coffee-houses;  it  has,  we  believe,  answered 
the  restaurateur's  purpose,  and  often  excited 
John  Bull  to  walk  in  and  taste;  the  more  familiar 
name  of  curry  soup  would,  perhaps,  not  have  had 
sufficient  of  the  charm  of  novelty  to  seduce  him 
from  his  much-loved  mock  turtle." 


FISH  RECIPES 


"  Kickshaws  "  were   made   in  Shakespeare's  time 


<j|tt 


.*,  wftyf^ 


■> 


'Petticoat  Tails" 


Rough   Robin  " — A   spicy   fruit  cak 


FISH  RECIPES 


TWICE  LAID 

2  lbs.  cold  cooked  fish  i  pint  (2  cups)  mashed 

6  hard-cooked  eggs  potatoes 

12  filleted  anchovies  Few  pieces  puff  paste 

x]/2  pints  (3  cups)  thick  2  chopped  onions 

white  sauce  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped 

yi  pint  (1  cup)  grated  parsley 

cheese  ]4,  pint  (1  cup)  chopped 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  cooked  ham 

Butter  a  fireproof  dish,  sprinkle  in  the  chopped 
onion,  parsley  and  ham.  Flake  the  fish  and  slice 
the  eggs.  Put  a  layer  of  the  sauce  in  the  dish, 
sprinkle  in  some  of  the  cheese,  and  on  this  arrange 
a  layer  of  the  fish  and  eggs,  then  add  another  of 
the  sauce,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  almost  full; 
sprinkle  over  the  top  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  with  mashed  potatoes,  brush  over  the  top 
with  a  little  beaten  egg,  garnish  with  the  puff 


22  The  Something-Different  Dish 

pastry,  place  in  a  baking  tin  and  cook  in  a  hot 
oven  for  thirty  minutes. 

Any  remains  of  cold  fish,  chicken  or  meat  can 
be  utilized  in  the  same  way. 


KEDGEREE 

tyi  lb.    {i}4  cups)   cold        2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls) 

cooked  fish  butter  or  drippings 

%  lb.  {yi  cup)  rice  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  hard-cooked  eggs  1  tablespoonful  chopped 

parsley 

Flake  the  fish,  taking  care  to  remove  all  the 
skin  and  bones.  Wash  and  boil  the  rice,  then 
drain  and  dry  it  in  the  oven.  Melt  the  butter 
in  a  sauce-pan,  add  the  whites  of  eggs,  chopped, 
the  fish  and  rice,  and  stir  over  the  fire  all  together 
until  quite  hot.  Take  care  that  the  mixture  does 
not  brown.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pile 
in  a  mound  on  a  hot  dish.  Decorate  down  the 
sides  with  the  hard-cooked  yolks  of  eggs,  pre- 
viously rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  the  parsley. 
Serve  hot. 


Fish  Recipes  23 

Kedgeree  is  the  name  given  to  a  medley  com- 
posed of  fish,  boiled  rice,  and  hard-cooked  eggs, 
but  it  owes  its  name  to  the  Hindu  word  "khichri," 
meaning  a  medley  or  assortment,  and  not  to  the 
name  of  a  place  on  the  Hoogly  River,  forty  miles 
southwest  of  Calcutta,  India. 


WIGGLE 

yi  pint  (1  cup)  picked  ^4  pint  (i}4  cups)  milk 

shrimps  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Salt  and  paprika  to  taste  }4  pint  (1  cup)  canned 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls)  peas 

butter 

Blend  the  butter  and  flour  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  season  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  pour 
in  the  milk,  stirring  all  the  time.  Stir  until  the 
mixture  boils,  then  add  the  shrimps  broken  in 
pieces  and  the  peas  drained  from  their  liquor. 
Serve  very  hot  with  crackers  or  fingers  of  but- 
tered toast. 


24  The  Something-Different  Dish 


PULLED  FISH 


Boiled  fish 

yi  pint  (i  cup)  cream 

i  tablespoonful  dry  mus- 
tard 

i  tablespoonful  anchovy 
essence 


i}4  tablespoonfuls  mush- 
room catchup 
Pepper  to  taste 
i  teaspoonful  flour 
i  teaspoonful  butter 
Toasted  bread 


After  any  solid  fish  is  boiled,  pick  it  in  small 
pieces  from  the  bones  and  add  to  one  pound  of 
it  the  mustard,  anchovy  essence,  catchup,  pep- 
per, flour,  butter  and  cream;  heat  over  the  fire 
until  very  hot  and  serve  at  once  on  toast. 


AJI 


i  good-sized  boiled  lob- 
ster 

6  ozs.  ($4  cup)  sweet 
butter 

i  tablespoonful  chopped 
onion 

i  tablespoonful  chopped 
peppers 


6  peeled  tomatoes 

i 6  potatoes 

5  hard-cooked  eggs 

i  pint  (2  cups)  chicken 

stock 
1  small  cream  cheese 
Salt  to  taste 


Slice  the  tomatoes;    cut  each  potato  in  three 
pieces  and  the  eggs  in  quarters.     Melt  the  but- 


Fish  Recipes  25 

ter,  add  the  onions  and  peppers.  Cook  for  five 
minutes,  then  add  the  potatoes  and  cook  until 
the  butter  is  absorbed.  Pour  in  the  stock,  in 
which  the  lobster  shell  has  been  boiled;  add  the 
tomatoes,  the  lobster  cut  in  small  pieces,  the 
cream  cheese  and  the  eggs,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Simmer  until  the  potatoes  are  cooked  and  serve 
very  hot. 


COD  QUADRILLES  WITH  POTATO  SALAD 

2  lbs.  cod  Potato  salad 

1  beaten  egg  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Bread  crumbs 

Slice  the  cod  and  dip  the  slices  in  flour.  Brush 
the  fish  over  with  the  beaten  egg,  and  dip  in 
bread  crumbs  which  have  been  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Then  fry  in  plenty  of  smoking  hot 
fat  until  a  nice  brown  color.  Serve  cold,  with 
potato  salad  arranged  around  the  dish.  A  very 
good  potato  salad  is  made  as  follows:  Rub  a 
basin  with  a  slice  of  onion  or  a  cut  clove  of  garlic, 
and  into  it  put  a  quart  of  cold  boiled  potatoes 


26  The  Something-Different  Dish 

that  have  been  cut  into  small  squares.  Stir 
through  the  potatoes  two  tablespoonfuls  of  capers. 
Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  over 
the  potatoes  while  the  sauce  is  hot,  and  set  away 
to  get  cold  before  serving  with  the  fish. 
A  little  chopped  parsley  may  be  added,  if  liked. 


MEAT  RECIPES 


MEAT  RECIPES 


BUBBLE  AND  SQUEAK 

i  lb.  cold  boiled  salt  beef        4  ozs.  (}4  cup)  butter  or 
1  boiled  cabbage  drippings 

Pepper 

Cut  the  salt  beef  in  thin  slices  and  sprinkle  it 
over  with  a  little  pepper;  melt  the  butter  or  drip- 
pings in  a  frying-pan.  When  hot  put  the  beef 
into  it,  and  fry  on  both  sides  until  it  is  a  golden 
color;  then  take  up,  put  the  pieces  of  meat  be- 
tween two  plates,  and  keep  them  hot  over  boiling 
water.  Chop  the  cabbage,  put  it  into  the  pan  in 
which  the  beef  was  fried,  and  fry  it  for  five  min- 
utes; turn  it  out  in  the  center  of  a  hot  dish  and 
arrange  the  slices  of  beef  round.     Serve  very  hot. 

If  liked,  cold  mashed  potatoes,  shredded  onions 

and  a  little  vinegar  may  be  added. 

Bubble  and  squeak  is  the  fanciful  name  ap- 
29 


30  The  Something-Different  Dish 

plied  to  an  old  English  dish  of  fried  beef  and 
cabbage. 

"  When  'midst  the  frying-pan,  in  accents  savage, 
The  beef  so  surly  quarrels  with  the  cabbage." 

Dr.  Kitchener  set  the  lines  to  music,  and  fur- 
nished a  sauce  for  the  dish.  Even  George  Augusta 
Sala,  who  was  both  a  clever  cook  and  a  conscien- 
tious epicure,  was  very  fond  of  boiled  beef  when  it 
was  served  a  la  Bubble  and  Squeak. 


POOR  MAN'S  GOOSE 

1  lb-  liver  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
i  slice  fat  bacon                     y2  teaspoonful  powdered 

2  large  sliced  onions  sage 

i}i     pints      (3      cups)         1  pint  (2  cups)  gravy  or 
mashed  cooked  beans  stock 

or  potatoes  Apple  sauce 

Take  the  slice  of  bacon  and  the  liver  and  fry 
them  a  light  brown.  Now  fry  the  onions.  Line 
a  fireproof  dish  with  most  of  the  beans  or  pota- 
toes, add  a  layer  of  the  liver  and  bacon,  then  a 
layer  of  onions.     Sprinkle  with  the  salt,  pepper 


Carpet  Bag"  is  a  round     steak    split    half    through  and 

stuffed  with  oysters.      It   is  closed  like  a  sandwich 

and  roasted   until  cooked 


m 


%m 


Love   in    Disguise  "    is    a     dinner    dish     of    calf's    heart 
and   vermicelli    served  with    brown    gravy 


Poor     Man's     Goose " — the    name     is     cruelly     ironic — is 

made  of  liver.      But  liver  is  as  nourishing  as  goose, 

and  if  carefully  cooked   it  tastes  just  as  good 


Meat  Recipes  31 

and  sage.  Strain  the  gravy  over  the  contents  of 
the  dish,  then  cover  with  a  layer  of  the  beans  or 
potatoes  and  bake  for  one  hour.  Serve  with  apple 
sauce. 

Poor  Man's  Goose — the  name  is  purely  ironic — 
is  made  of  liver.  But  liver  is  as  nourishing  as 
goose,  and  if  carefully  cooked  it  tastes  just  as  good. 


CARPET  BAG 

1  piece  round  steak  Parsley 

20  oysters 

Take  a  piece  of  round  steak  as  large  as  you  re- 
quire and  three  inches  thick;  split  half  through 
with  a  sharp  knife;  place  the  oysters  inside  and 
close  like  a  sandwich.  Sew  carefully  together 
at  the  edges,  and  roast  until  cooked;  the  length 
of  time  depends  upon  the  size  of  the  steak.  Serve 
hot  garnished  with  parsley. 


32  The  Something-Different  Dish 

LOVE  IN  DISGUISE 

i  calf's  heart  Boiled  vermicelli 

Some  well-seasoned  force-        Brown  gravy- 
meat 

Wash  and  dry  a  calf's  heart,  cover  it  with  a 
layer  of  well-seasoned  forcemeat,  and  steam  until 
almost  ready.  Finish  the  cooking  by  baking, 
cover  with  boiled  vermicelli,  and  serve  with  a 
rich  brown  gravy.  Sometimes  the  heart  is  stuffed, 
covered  with  pastry  and  baked  in  a  hot  oven. 

To  make  the  forcemeat,  put  through  the  food 
chopper  one-half  pound  of  lean  pork,  and  one- 
fourth  pound  of  lean  meat,  then  add  one  cupful  of 
bread-crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  to  taste, 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  two  well- beaten  eggs  and  mix 
together. 

CHINA  CHILO 

2  lbs.  end  neck  of  mutton        i  pint  (2  cups)  green  peas 
2  ozs.    (4    tablespoonfuls)     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

butter  %  pint  (1  cup)  water 

2  sliced  onions  %  pint   {i}/2  cups)  boiled 
1  shredded  lettuce  rice 


Meat  Recipes  33 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  mutton,  onion,  lettuce, 
peas,  seasonings  and  water.  Cover  the  pan  and 
simmer  gently  for  two  hours.  Serve  with  the 
hot  boiled  rice. 

When  peas  are  out  of  season  use  beans. 


SQUAB  PIE 

3  lbs.  lean  pork  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

4  tart  apples  Gravy  or  stock 
3  small  onions                         Pastry  to  cover 

Cut  the  pork  into  neat  pieces.  Put  a  layer  of 
the  pieces  in  the  bottom  of  a  fireproof  dish. 
Add  one  of  the  apples,  peeled  and  chopped,  then 
one  of  the  onions,  peeled  and  chopped,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  in 
as  much  stock  or  gravy  as  will  fill  the  dish  three- 
quarters  full.  Cover  with  pastry,  and  bake  for 
two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 


34  The  Something-Different  Dish 

SEA  PIE 

i  lb.  lean  beef  i   pint   (2   cups)   warm 

1  carrot  water  or  stock 

1  turnip  >£  lb.  (2  cups)  flour 

2  onions  ^  lb.  (1  cup)  chopped 
yi  tablespoonful  mush-  suet 

room  catchup  1     teaspoonful     baking 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  powder 

Wipe  and  trim  the  meat,  and  cut  it  into  small 
neat  pieces.  Prepare  the  vegetables  and  slice 
them.  Put  a  layer  of  the  vegetables  into  a  shal- 
low stewpan,  then  the  meat  and  the  remainder 
of  the  vegetables  on  the  top.  Season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  the  catchup  and  the  water 
or  stock.  Cover  and  stew  slowly  for  thirty 
minutes. 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  suet,  add  the  baking 
powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  mix  well.  Make 
this  into  a  stimsh  paste  with  cold  water;  roll  it 
out  into  a  round  cake  the  size  of  the  stewpan,  and 
put  it  on  the  top  of  the  meat  and  vegetables. 
Continue  the  stewing  until  the  meat  is  quite 
tender,  and  the  vegetables  and  pastry  well  cooked. 


Meat  Recipes  35 

The  crust  should  be  loosened  from  the  sides  of 
the  saucepan  occasionally,  and  more  liquid  added 
if  necessary.  Cut  the  pastry  across  into  six 
pieces.  Lift  out  the  meat  and  vegetables  and 
arrange  them  on  a  hot  platter,  place  the  pastry 
on  the  top  and  garnish  with  a  few  pieces  of  the 
carrot. 

TRIPLE  ALLIANCE 

Cooked  potatoes  Cooked  meat  made  into 

Cooked  turnips  balls 

Melted  butter 

Reheat  the  turnips  and  potatoes  in  separate 
dishes  placed  in  a  steamer  or  in  boiling  water. 
Mound  the  turnips  on  a  hot  dish;  then  cover  with 
the  potatoes,  mashed  and  forced  through  a  bag 
and  star  tube,  or  made  rough  with  a  fork.  Ar- 
range balls  of  meat  here  and  there  about  the  base. 
At  the  top  make  an  indentation,  and  fill  it  with 
melted  butter,  so  that  it  will  trickle  down  the 
crinkly  sides  of  the  potato. 

Triple  alliance  is  a  combination  of  potatoes, 
turnips  and  meat. 


36  The  Something-Different  Dish 


HARICOT 

2  lbs.  best  end  neck  of  yi  pint  (1  cup)  cooked 

mutton  peas  or  beans 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls)  2  boiled  carrots 

butter  or  drippings  2  boiled  turnips 

6  diced  onions  1    tablespoonful    mush- 

1  tablespoonful  flour  room  catchup 

1  bunch  herbs  Water 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Trim  off  some  of  the  fat,  remove  all  the  un- 
necessary bone,  cut  the  mutton  into  rather  thin 
chops,  and  put  them  into  a  frying-pan  with  the 
butter  or  drippings.  Fry  them  a  pale  brown, 
but  do  not  cook  them  enough  for  eating.  Take 
up  the  mutton  and  put  it  in  the  bottom  of  a 
stewpan.  Fry  the  onions  slightly  in  the  same  fat 
as  the  mutton  was  browned  in,  but  do  not  allow 
them  to  take  any  color.  Sprinkle  the  flour  over 
the  meat,  add  the  onions,  drained,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  bring  to  the  boil,  occasionally 
skimming;  then  put  in  the  herbs  and  simmer  for 
two  hours.  Add  the  carrots  and  turnips  cut  in 
slices,  the  peas  or  beans,  catchup,  and  seasonings. 


Meat  Recipes  37 

Simmer  for  ten  minutes,  then  turn  into  a  deep 
hot  dish  and  serve  at  once. 

Haricot,  the  name  given  to  a  stew  composed 
of  chops  from  the  best  end  of  neck  of  mutton  and 
the  familiar  vegetables  which  go  by  the  collec- 
tive name  of  pot-herbs,  is  given  by  the  most  re- 
liable authorities  as  derived  from  the  old  French 
"Harigot,"  meaning  a  morsel,  but  more  fanciful 
etymologists  attach  it  to  "haut-ragout,"  meaning 
something  superior  by  way  of  stewed  meat. 


CAVALIER'S  BROIL 

1  moderate  sized  shoul-        ^  pint  (i}4  cups) 

der  of  mutton  pickled  mushrooms 

Salt  and  red  pepper 

Half  roast  or  parboil  the  shoulder  of  mutton, 
then  lift  it  on  to  a  hot  dish,  score  on  both  sides 
down  to  the  bone,  season  well  with  salt  and  red 
pepper,  and  finish  cooking  it  over  the  fire  or  in 
the  oven. 

Skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  keep  the  dish 
which  contains  it  quite  hot  to  receive  the  joint 


38  The  Something-Different  Dish 

again.  Warm  the  mushrooms,  chop  one-half  cup- 
ful of  them  and  sprinkle  them  over  the  broil; 
when  it  is  ready  to  be  served  arrange  the  remainder 
round  it  and  serve  immediately. 

To  make  the  pickled  mushrooms:  Take  some 
small  and  round  button  mushrooms,  throw  them 
into  cold  water,  and  rub  each  separately  with  a 
piece  of  flannel  dipped  in  salt  to  clean  it;  put 
them  again  into  fresh  cold  water,  and  finally  into 
a  pan  with  a  handful  of  fine  salt  scattered  over 
them.  Place  over  a  moderate  fire,  having  cov- 
ered them  close  so  that  the  steam  may  not  escape, 
for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  they  are  hot  and  the 
water  is  drawn  well  out  of  them;  drain  and  dry 
well;  keep  them  covered  up  from  the  air  until 
they  are  cold;  then  place  them  in  clean  glass 
bottles  with  a  blade  of  mace,  fill  up  with  white 
wine  vinegar,  and  add  to  each  bottle  a  teaspoonful 
of  olive  oil.     Cork  and  seal. 


Meat  Recipes  39 

BOMBSHELL 

i,K  lbs.  tender  steak  yi  teaspoonful  cream  of 
]/2  oz.  (2  tablespoonfuls)  tartar 

flour  2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls) 
1  teaspoonful  salt  butter 

yi  teaspoonful  pepper  Milk 

¥a,  lb.  (3  cups)  flour  y^  pint  (1  cup)  water 
yi    teaspoonful    baking 

soda 

Cut  the  steak  into  small  pieces.  Mix  the  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  the  salt  and  pepper 
and  roll  the  pieces  of  steak  in  this  mixture.  Sift 
the  flour,  baking  soda,  cream  of  tartar,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste  into  a  basin,  rub  in  the  butter 
and  mix  into  a  firm  paste  with  a  little  milk. 
Cut  the  paste  into  two  pieces,  one  large  and  one 
small.  Roll  out  the  larger  piece  and  line  a  well- 
buttered  mold  with  it.  Put  in  the  pieces  of  steak 
with  the  water.  Roll  out  the  smaller  piece  of 
paste  and  lay  it  on  the  top.  Cover  with  a  piece 
of  buttered  paper  and  steam  steadily  for  three 
hours.     Turn  out  on  to  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

Bombshell  was  the  name  given  to  this  meat 
pudding  in  1820  by  an  old  soldier. 


CHICKEN  RECIPES 


CHICKEN  RECIPES 


SPREAD  EAGLE 

i  chicken  i  tablespoonful  chopped 

Salt,  pepper,  and  made  parsley 

mustard  to  taste  Tomato  sauce 

i  gill  (}4  cup)  chopped        Watercress 

cooked  ham  2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls) 

butter  or  drippings 

Singe  and  draw  the  chicken  and  split  it  down  the 
back;  leave  the  wings  on,  but  remove  the  breast- 
bone. Season  well  inside  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
made  mustard.  Lay  the  bird  in  a  well-buttered 
baking  tin.  Sprinkle  with  the  ham  and  the  pars- 
ley, brush  with  the  melted  butter  or  drippings  and 
cook  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  min- 
utes, keeping  it  well  basted  while  cooking. 

Pour  some  hot  tomato  sauce  on  to  a  hot  platter, 
lay  the  chicken  on  it,  and  garnish  the  top  and 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  watercress. 

43 


44  The  Something-Different  Dish 

Serve  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

A  squab  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way.  Split 
a  nice  squab  up  the  back,  flatten  it  a  little  with  a 
knife,  and  truss  the  wings  each  side  of  the  breast. 
Put  a  skewer  through  to  keep  it  flat.  Grill  it 
over  a  clear  fire  for  five  minutes,  turning  once. 
Then  place  it  in  a  buttered  tin,  covering  it  with 
buttered  bread  crumbs;  cook  in  a  hot  oven  for 
ten  minutes,  place  on  a  piece  of  toast  after  re- 
moving the  skewer,  and  pour  over  some  nice 
thick  brown  gravy. 

Garnish  with  watercress. 


SUDDEN  DEATH 

i  broiling  chicken  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

i  oz.  (2  tablespoonfuls)        Tomato  sauce 
butter 

Chop  the  head  off  a  live  young  fowl,  and  let 
it  bleed.  Draw  the  chicken  and  plunge  it  into  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  when  the  skin  and  feathers 
will  come  off  all  together.  Split  the  chicken  in 
half;    broil  it  over  a  clear  fire,  and  keep  turning 


Stoved  Howtowdie  "    is  a   savory  way  of  serving    youns 
fowl  with    poached   eggs    and   spinach 


Country    Captains  "    illustrate    an     unusual    way    of    re- 
cooking   cold   chicken  in  a    batter  containing  curry 


Chicken  Recipes  45 

it  till  done,  which  will  be  in  about  twenty  minutes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  rub  with  the  butter 
and  serve  hot  with  tomato  sauce. 


COUNTRY  CAPTAINS 

yi  lb.  (1  cup)  flour  Pieces      cold,      cooked 

Yz  teaspoonful  salt  chicken 

1  gill  (J/2  cup)  milk  1     tablespoonful    onion 

1  egg  juice 

1  tablespoonful  olive  oil  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar 

Y     teaspoonful     curry  Cream  sauce 
powder 

Sieve  the  flour  and  salt  into  a  basin,  add  the 
milk  and  the  egg  well  beaten,  olive  oil  and  the 
curry  powder.  Beat  until  smooth  and  glossy. 
Put  in  a  cool  place  for  one  hour. 

Mix  the  onion  juice  and  the  vinegar;  dip  pieces 
of  cold,  cooked  chicken  into  the  vinegar  and  onion 
juice,  then  into  the  batter  and  fry  in  smoking 
hot  fat  until  they  are  a  golden  color. 

Pour  cream  sauce  into  the  bottom  of  a  hot  dish, 
place  the  chicken  on  it  and  serve  hot. 


46  The  Something-Different  Dish 

STOVED  HOWTOWDIE 

1  chicken  yi  pint  (1  cup)  boiling 

6  button  onions  water  or  stock 

1  blade  mace  Forcemeat 

1  bay  leaf  Gravy 

4  ozs.  iyi  cup)  butter  5  or  6  eggs 

1  bunch  herbs  Cooked  spinach 

Prepare  and  stuff  a  young,  plump  fowl  with 
forcemeat.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  close- 
fitting  lid,  add  the  onions,  mace,  bay  leaf,  butter 
and  if  liked  the  herbs.  When  the  fowl  has  hard- 
ened, and  been  turned,  add  the  boiling  water  or 
stock.  Fit  on  the  lid  very  closely  and  set  the 
saucepan  over  the  fire.  One  hour  will  do  a  small 
fowl,  the  heavier  ones  take  longer  in  proportion 
to  their  weight.  Have  a  little  seasoned  gravy, 
in  which  parboil  the  liver.  Poach  five  or  six  eggs 
nicely  in  this  gravy.  Dress  them  on  flattened 
balls  of  cooked  spinach  around  the  fowl.  Rub 
down  the  liver  to  thicken  the  gravy  and  liquor  in 
which  the  fowl  was  cooked,  skimming  nicely, 
pour  over  dish  and  serve  all  very  hot. 

Mushrooms,  oysters,  forcemeat  balls,  etc.,  may 
be  added  to  enrich  it,  and  chopped  celery  may  be 
put  in  the  sauce. 


Chicken  Recipes  47 

SPATCHCOCK 

1  chicken  1   pint  (2  cups)  brown 

Salt  and  pepper  sauce 

1  small  chopped  onion  1  teaspoonful  meat  ex- 

1  bouquet  garni  tract 

1  shallot  2  chopped  gherkins 

2  bay  leaves  yi  tablespoonful  capers 
1  sprig  thyme  1    teaspoonful    chopped 
4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar  parsley 

Cut  the  chicken  in  half  and  season  the  inside 
of  the  bird  with  salt  and  pepper,  chopped  onion, 
and  bouquet  garni  and  allow  to  lie  in  a  cool  place 
for  an  hour.  Brush  the  bird  over  with  melted 
butter  and  grill  it  for  twenty  minutes,  basting 
all  the  time.  Sprinkle  with  browned  bread 
crumbs,  cook  for  ten  minutes  more,  and  serve 
the  following  sauce  with  it :  Chop  the  shallot  with 
the  bay  leaves  and  put  them  in  a  pan,  add  the 
thyme,  pepper,  and  vinegar;  simmer  until  the 
vinegar  is  reduced  to  half  the  quantity,  then  mix 
with  it  the  brown  sauce  and  meat  extract  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes,  rub  through  a  sieve  and  add 
the  gherkins,  capers,  and  parsley.  Make  very 
hot  and  use. 


48  The  Something-Different  Dish 

To  make  the  bouquet  garni,  tie  together  a  piece 
of  well-washed  fresh  parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme, 
a  sprig  of  marjoram,  a  bay  leaf,  a  celery  leaf,  a 
small  piece  of  cinnamon  stick,  a  clove  of  garlic, 
a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  piece  of  green  or  red  pepper. 


PISH-PASH 

1  tender  chicken  2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls) 
yi  lb.  (1  cup)  rice  butter 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped 
preserved  ginger  parsley 

2  sliced  onions  1  hard-cooked  egg 
2  bay  leaves                            Salt  to  taste 

1      teaspoonful      whole        Water 
white  peppers 

Singe  and  draw  the  chicken  and  then  cut  it 
into  neat  joints.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
place  in  the  chicken,  add  the  rice,  ginger,  onions, 
bay  leaves,  whole  peppers,  cover  with  cold  water, 
bring  to  the  boil,  and  simmer  for  one  hour.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  serve  hot  with  the  parsley  and 
the  hard-cooked  egg,  which  has  been  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  sprinkled  over. 


PUDDING  RECIPES 


Jenny  Lind "  received   its  name  from    the    sweet    singer 

of  the  same  name.     She  was  very  fond  of  this  dainty 

and   delicious  cake-custard   pudding 


Flimsy"   is   the    name    of    a    rice    and  jam  pudding.      It 
is  a  favorite   in  the   nursery,  and    children    are   de- 
lighted   with    its    fluffy    top    and    altogether 
delicious   look 


n 


Huff"  is  an  excellent  sweet   for  the  spring  and  summer 
months.       It    is    a    sweet   rhubarb    gelatin    flavored 
with  lemon  juice  and    served 


wi 


ith 


cream 


PUDDING  RECIPES 


JENNY  LIND 

4  small  sponge  cakes  3  eggs 

4    tablespoonfuls    rasp-  4  tablespoonfuls  chopped 

berry  jam  cocoanut 

1  lemon  ^  pint  (i>£  cups)  whip- 
6  tablespoonfuls  sugar  ping  cream 

i>^  gills  ($4  cup)  water  8  preserved  cherries 

Slice  the  sponge  cakes  and  place  them  in  a  glass 
dish;  spread  the  raspberry  jam  over  them.  Put 
the  grated  rind  and  strained  juice  of  the  lemon 
into  an  enameled  saucepan,  add  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  the  sugar  and  the  water;  bring  to  boiling 
point;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  in  a  basin; 
pour  the  boiling  mixture  over  them,  stirring  all 
the  time;  return  to  the  saucepan,  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  mixture  thickens — it  must  not 
boil.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  stir  them  gently  into  the  custard. 
Take  from  the  fire,  and,  when  it  becomes  cool, 

si 


52  The  Something-Different  Dish 

pour  it  over  the  sponge  cakes.  Sprinkle  in  the 
cocoanut,  then  cover  with  the  whipped  cream  to 
which  the  remainder  of  the  sugar  has  been  added, 
and  decorate  with  the  preserved  cherries. 

Jenny  Lind  received  its  name  from  the  sweet 
singer  of  the  same  name.  She  was  very  fond  of 
this  dainty  and  delicious  cake-custard  pudding. 


SPOTTED  DICK 

yi  lb.  (3  cups)  flour  y2  teaspoonful  salt 

5  tablespoonfuls  chopped  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

suet  )4    teaspoonful    grated 
Ya,  lb.  (1  cup)  currants  nutmeg 

2  teaspoonfuls      baking  1  egg 

powder  Milk 

Sieve  the  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  sugar 
into  a  basin,  add  the  suet,  currants,  nutmeg  and 
the  egg  well  beaten.  Make  into  a  stiff  dough  with 
some  milk.  Put  into  a  greased  mold,  cover  with 
a  greased  paper  and  steam  steadily  for  two  hours. 
Turn  out,  decorate  with  a  star  of  whipped  and 
sweetened  cream,  and  serve  hot  with  a  sweet  sauce. 

In  homely  circles,  a  boiled  suet  pudding  with 


Pudding  Recipes  53 

dried  currants  is  in  great  favor.  It  is  rarely 
honored  by  its  formal  name  of  Currant  Pudding, 
but  is  familiarly  called  Spotted  Dick.  The 
reason  for  the  name  is  less  obvious  than  that 
applied  by  cabinet-makers  to  the  same  pudding, 
which  is  known  among  them  as  "bird's-eye 
maple."  Yet  one  other  name,  of  which  the 
pudding  can  scarcely  be  proud,  is  "hunter's 
pudding,"  which  is  suggestive  of  the  distance 
between  currant  and  currant. 


DOG  IN  A  BLANKET 

yi  lb.  (2  cups)  flour  Milk 

2    teaspoonfuls    baking  5  tart  oranges 

powder  4  ozs.  {}4  cup)  sugar 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1    tablespoonful   melted 

1     tablespoonful     pow-  butter 

dered  sugar  1   pint   (2   cups)   lemon 

1  tablespoonful  lard  custard 

i}4  tablespoonfuls  but-  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped 

ter  walnut  meats 

Sieve  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  pow- 
dered sugar  into  a  basin,  rub  the  lard  and  butter 
into  them  and  make  the  mixture  into  a  rather  stiff 


54  The  Something-Different  Dish 

dough  with  some  milk.  Roll  it  into  a  sheet  one- 
half  inch  in  thickness.  Brush  with  the  melted 
butter  and  sprinkle  the  sugar  over  it.  Then 
cover  it  with  the  oranges,  which  have  been  peeled, 
sliced  thin  and  seeded.  Roll  up  into  a  compact 
roll.  Tie  it  in  a  buttered,  floured  cloth  and  boil 
for  two  hours.  Drain  and  unwrap  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter. Decorate  with  the  chopped  nuts.  Serve 
with  a  lemon  custard  made  with  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  two  egg  yolks, 
the  grated  rinds  and  strained  juice  of  two  lemons, 
and  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  water. 

This  is  a  Creole  recipe  over  one  hundred  years 
old. 

HUFF 

i  bundle  rhubarb  6  ozs.  {%  cup)  sugar 

yi  lemon  i>2  gills  iyi  cup)  water 

4    tablespoonfuls  pow-        Custard      or     whipped 
dered  gelatine  cream 

Stew  the  rhubarb  and  sugar  together  until 
quite  soft  and  rub  through  a  sieve;  add  the 
strained  lemon  juice  and  return  to  the  fire.     When 


Pudding  Recipes  55 

hot,  stir  in  the  gelatine,  which  has  been  mixed 
with  the  cold  water,  and  thoroughly  dissolve  it. 
Pour  it  into  a  wet  mold,  and,  when  cold,  turn  out. 
Serve  with  custard  or  whipped  cream. 

Huff  is  an  excellent  sweet  for  the  spring  and 
summer  months. 


SCOTCH  MIST 

24  macaroons  1  pint  (2  cups)  whipping 

12  ladyfingers  cream 

1  gill  iyi  cup)  fruit  juice        Few  drops  green  color 
or  curacoa  Few  drops  red  color 

Few  Maraschino  cherries 

Pound  the  macaroons  to  a  fine  paste,  crumble 
in  the  ladyfingers,  add  the  fruit  juice  or  curacoa 
and  one-half  of  the  cream.  Mix  all  well  together 
and  turn  into  a  pretty  dish.  Whip  up  the  re- 
maining cream  and  divide  it  into  two  portions; 
color  one  pink  with  a  few  drops  of  red  color  and 
the  other  pale  green  with  a  few  drops  of  green 
color. 

Ornament  the  top  with  the  cream,  using  a 
forcing  bag  and  star  tube.  Decorate  with  the 
cherries. 


56  The  Something-Different  Dish 

FLIMSY 

2  pints  (4  cups)  milk  6  tablespoonfuls  apricot 
4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  jam 

Y$  teaspoonful  salt  1  gill  (}4  cup)  cream 

yi  lb.  (1  cup)  rice  1  teaspoonful  lemon  ex- 

3  eggs  tract 

Put  the  milk  into  a  saucepan,  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  the  sugar  and  the  salt,  and  bring  to 
the  boiling  point.  Mix  the  rice  with  the  remain- 
der of  the  sugar  and  cream.  Add  the  boiling  milk 
and  cook  until  tender.  Take  from  the  fire,  add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  pour  into  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish,  leaving  it  for  an  hour  in  a 
cool  place.  Spread  the  jam  over  the  top.  Beat 
up  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  the  extract  and 
spread  on  the  top  of  the  pudding. 

Sprinkle  over  with  a  little  sugar  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  five  minutes. 


DOCTOR  JOHNSON 

Slices  stale  bread  A  few  tiny  colored  can- 

Stewed  apples  dies 

Cream  or  custard 


Doctor  Johnson  "  is  a  bread  pudding 


*       % 


V 


"") 


Scotch   Mist  " 


"  Spotted   Dick 


Pudding  Recipes  57 

Cut  several  slices  from  a  loaf  of  stale  bread, 
trim  off  the  crusts,  divide  the  bread  into  pieces 
about  three  inches  square,  and  line  a  buttered 
pudding  basin  neatly  with  them.  Have  ready  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  stewed  and  sweetened  apples 
with  plenty  of  juice,  fill  the  bowl  to  within  about 
a  third  of  the  brim  with  the  solid  portion,  pour  in 
as  much  juice  as  will  come  to  less  than  an  inch 
from  the  edge,  and  then  arrange  a  round  of  bread 
exactly  to  fit  the  top  of  the  pudding.  Cover  the 
bowl  closely  with  a  plate,  set  a  heavy  weight 
upon  it,  and  leave  it  for  several  hours,  when  the 
juice  will  have  thoroughly  soaked  the  bread. 
Turn  out  and  sprinkle  over  with  tiny  colored 
candies,  and  serve  with  or  without  cream  or  cus- 
tard. 

GENERAL  SATISFACTION 

Some  strawberry  or  rasp-  1  lemon 

berry  preserves  1  egg 

6  lady  fingers  3  whites  of  eggs 

%  pint  (1  cup)  milk  Grated  nutmeg  to  taste 

1  oz.  (2  tablespoonfuls)  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

butter  Puff  pastry 
1  tablespoonful  flour 


58         The  Something-Different  Dish 

Line  a  fireproof  pudding  dish  with  the  pastry. 
Put  a  layer  of  preserves  at  the  bottom,  then  a 
layer  of  the  lady  fingers,  then  a  layer  of  the  fol- 
lowing mixture.  Blend  the  butter  and  flour  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  the  milk,  and  the 
grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  stir  and  cook  until  the 
mixture  thickens.  When  cold,  stir  in  the  yolk  of 
the  egg,  and  add  the  nutmeg  and  the  sugar. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  ready. 

Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
place  them  on  the  top  of  the  pudding,  sprinkle 
over  with  sugar  and  bake  for  three  minutes. 

SNOW  BALLS 

}4  lb.  (i  cup)  sugar  i  teaspoonful  lemon  ex- 

yi  pint  (i  cup)  water  tract 

i  quart  (4  cups)  cream  Chopped  cocoanut 

1    tablespoonful   vanilla 
extract 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  five 
minutes;  cool,  add  the  cream  and  the  extracts, 
and  freeze.  Mold  in  balls,  or  pack  in  round  molds. 
Before  serving  roll  these  balls  in  the  cocoanut. 


Pudding  Recipes  59 

Another  method. 

Cream  one-half  cupful  of  butter  with  three- 
fourths  cupful  of  sugar,  add  one-half  cupful  of 
milk,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  then  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  rose  extract  and  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs,  beat  well  and  steam  for  one 
hour  in  buttered  cups.  When  done,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce  or  custard. 


IRISH  DELIGHT 

1  pint  (2  cups)  milk  2  beaten  eggs 

6    tablespoonfuls    corn-  2  bay  leaves 

starch  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  ex-  Fine  breadcrumbs 

tract  Smoking  hot  fat 

Blend  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk. 
Infuse  the  bay  leaves  in  the  milk  over  the  fire  for 
ten  minutes,  strain,  add  the  sugar  to  the  milk 
and  dissolve  over  the  fire.  Now  add  the  moist- 
ened cornstarch  and  vanilla,  and  boil  and  stir  until 
the  mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan.     Spread 


60  The  Something-Different  Dish 

to  an  inch  in  thickness  on  a  wet  plate,  and  leave 
until  cold.  Cut  into  pieces  two  inches  in  size. 
Brush  over  with  the  beaten  eggs;  dip  in  the 
bread  crumbs;  then  again  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Drain,  sieve  over 
with  fine  sugar,  and  serve  for  a  hot  sweet. 


FLOATING  ISLAND 

3  eggs  i  teaspoonful  vanilla  ex- 
y2  pint  (i  cup)  milk  tract 

4  small  sponge  cakes  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
3   tablespoonfuls  shred-  Jam  or  jelly 

ded  almonds 

Make  a  custard  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  milk, 
vanilla  extract  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
sugar.  Slice  the  sponge  cakes  into  a  glass  dish, 
spread  with  jam  or  jelly,  and  cover  with  the  cus- 
tard. 

Beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then 
beat  in  the  remainder  of  the  sugar.  Have  a  pan 
of  hot  water,  a  plate  and  a  skimmer.  Drop  a 
spoonful  at  a  time  of  egg  white  into  the  water, 


Pudding  Recipes  61 

and  when  firm  remove.  Place  the  little  islands 
of  egg  white  on  the  custard,  sprinkle  the  almonds 
over  the  top  and  serve  cold. 


HEDGEHOG 

1 6  cooking  apples  3  whites  of  eggs 

]A.  lb.  lump  sugar  3  tablespoonfuls  granu- 

1  pint  (2  cups)  water  lated  sugar 

yi  lemon  12  almonds 

Peel  and  core  six  of  the  apples  without  divid- 
ing, then  cook  them  in  a  shallow  pan  with  the 
water  and  lump  sugar,  and  when  tender  lift  them 
carefully  on  to  a  dish.  Have  ready  the  remainder 
of  the  apples,  peeled,  cored  and  sliced,  put  them 
into  the  same  syrup  with  the  grated  rind  of  the 
lemon  and  cook  gently  till  reduced  to  a  pulp; 
stirring  often  to  prevent  burning.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  a  dish  with  some  of  this  apple  mar- 
malade, then  add  a  layer  of  the  whole  apples, 
filling  up  the  cavities  with  the  marmalade,  then 
another  layer  of  the  marmalade  and  so  on,  form- 
ing the  whole  in  a  raised  oval  shape.     Beat  up 


62  The  Something-Different  Dish 

the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  the  sugar 
into  them,  and  cover  the  apples  with  this  meringue. 
Blanch  and  cut  the  almonds  into  four  or  five  strips, 
stick  these  strips  in  upright  at  equal  distances 
like  the  spines  of  a  hedgehog,  and  place  the  dish 
in  a  slow  oven  for  a  few  minutes  before  serving. 


OCEAN  FLOWERS 

i  oz.  (3  tablespoonfuls)  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  ex- 
powdered  gelatine  tract 
$i  pint  {i}4  cups)  water  Lemon  jelly 
i}4      pints      (3     cups)  j4  lb.  (1  cup)  sugar 

whipped  cream  3  tablespoonfuls  red  cur- 
Few  drops  red  color,  few  rant  jam 
drops  green  color 

Put  the  gelatine,  water,  jam  and  sugar  into  a 
saucepan,  stir  over  the  fire  until  dissolved,  then 
strain,  add  the  vanilla  extract,  two  cupfuls  of  the 
cream  and  a  few  drops  of  red  color.  Allow  to 
cool,  pour  into  some  small  wet  fish  molds,  and  place 
on  ice  for  three  hours. 

Line  a  wet  mold  with  lemon  jelly;  when  it  is 
set,  put  in  a  little  more  jelly  and   set  on  ice. 


Pudding  Recipes  63 

Turn  out  the  little  fish  molds  and  place  them  in 
the  jelly  as  if  swimming,  adding  just  a  little  jelly 
to  keep  them  in  place.  Put  again  on  ice,  add 
more  jelly  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  and  a  half, 
put  on  ice  again,  place  in  more  fish  and  jelly, 
and  so  on  until  the  mold  is  full.  When  firm  turn 
out  and  decorate  round  the  base  with  the  re- 
maining cream  colored  green  with  the  green  color. 
Decorate  with  shells  and  ferns. 


GOOSEBERRY  FOOL 

1  pint  gooseberries  1      teaspoonful     lemon 
14.  pint  (2  cups)  boiled  juice 

custard  1  gill  (}4  cup)'  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  cream  2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls) 

sugar 

Wash,  top  and  tail  the  gooseberries,  and  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  the  water  and  sugar; 
stew  them  until  they  are  tender  and  soft.  Rub 
through  a  fine  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon,  not  a 
metal  spoon  as  it  injures  the  flavor  and  color. 
When  the  custard  is  cold,  stir  it  into  the  goose- 
berry puree,  add  the  lemon  juice,  the  cream  and, 


64  The  Something-Different  Dish 

if  necessary,  more  sugar.  Serve  either  in  one  large 
glass  dish  or  in  custard  glasses,  having  it  as  cold 
as  possible. 

Two  crumbled  lady  fingers  are  a  nice  addition 
to  this  dish.  If  more  convenient  the  cream  may 
be  omitted,  or,  if  wished,  only  cream  used,  and 
no  custard. 

Rhubarb  fool  is  made  in  exactly  the  same  way, 
using  eight  sticks  of  peeled  rhubarb  in  place  of 
the  gooseberries. 

Strawberry  fool  is  made  by  merely  rubbing  the 
ripe  strawberries  through  a  sieve  and  adding  a 
few  drops  of  red  color.     Do  not  cook  the  fruit. 

Gooseberry  fool  is  at  all  times  popular,  but  it  is 
best  when  made  with  fresh  fruit. 

The  name  of  this  dish  often  puzzles  people. 
This  is  an  example  of  the  degeneration  of  a  foreign 
kitchen  term,  a  corruption  which  has  destroyed 
the  descriptive  meaning.  Originally  the  qualify- 
ing adjective  was  written  foule,  because  the  stewed 
gooseberries  were  crushed  before  being  mixed 
with  the  cream.  In  old  French  menus  the  dish  is 
given  as  "  Groseilles  foules." 


Pudding  Recipes  65 

CROW'S  NEST 

Apples  y2  gill  (%  cup)  cream 

l/i  lb.  (2  cups)  flour  1  teaspoonful  lemon  ex- 

Yi  pint  (1  cup)  milk  tract 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls)  1  teaspoonful  baking 

sugar  powder 
2  eggs 

Peel,  core,  and  slice  enough  apples  to  one-half 
fill  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Sieve  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  sugar  into  a  basin,  stir  in 
gradually  the  milk,  cream  and  lemon  extract. 
Whisk  up  the  eggs,  mix  these  with  the  flour  in- 
gredients, and  beat  thoroughly  for  eight  min- 
utes, then  pour  the  mixture  over  the  apples  until 
they  are  covered.  Bake  for  one  hour  and  serve 
the  pudding  hot  with  cream,  sweetened  and  fla- 
vored with  a  little  powdered  nutmeg. 

This  pudding  tastes  like  apple  dumplings, 
though  it  is  more  quickly  and  more  easily  made. 


66  The  Something-Different  Dish 

FAIRY  BREAD 

2    slices   stale   bread  i         i  beaten  egg 

inch  thick  Hot  fat 

Milk  Sugar 

Vanilla  extract  Preserves 

Cut  the  bread  into  strips  four  inches  long,  and 
one  and  one-half  inches  wide.  Dip  quickly  into 
a  little  milk  flavored  with  the  vanilla,  and  drain. 
Now  dip  into  the  egg  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat 
to  a  golden  color;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  put  a 
teaspoonful  of  preserves  on  each  piece. 

Another  method. 

Cut  stale  sponge  cake  in  one  inch  slices,  toast 
a  golden  brown  and  cut  in  two  inch  squares. 
Beat  to  a  froth  one-half  of  a  tumbler  of  quince 
jelly,  and  when  very  light  add  gradually  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Heap  this  on  the  pieces 
of  toast,  and  top  each  half  with  a  candied  cherry. 
Serve  with  cream. 


CAKES 


Nun's  Siehs  "  are  fried   cakes 


Fastarots" — Delicious  finser  rusks 


"Log  of  Wood  and  Bird   Cake 


CAKES 

MAIDS  OF  HONOR 

i  pint  (2  cups)  milk  1  pinch  powdered  cinna- 

1  dessertspoonful  rennet  mon 

4  tablespoonfuls  cleaned  1  pinch  grated  nutmeg 

currants  yi    teaspoonful    grated 

4  tablespoonfuls  whipped  lemon  rind 

cream  2  tablespoonfuls  brandy 

2  yolks  of  eggs  Pastry 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls)         1   tablespoonful  ground 
sugar  almonds 

Warm  the  milk  slightly,  add  the  rennet  to  it  and 
let  stand  until  a  curd  has  formed.  Put  it  in  a 
coarse  cloth  on  a  sieve,  and  drain  over  night. 
Next  day  press  the  curd  lightly,  and  turn  it  into 
a  basin.  Add  to  it  the  yolks  of  eggs,  cream, 
sugar,  currants,  almonds,  brandy,  cinnamon, 
lemon  and  nutmeg,  and  mix  well.  Line  some 
tartlet  tins  with  rich  pastry  rolled  out  rather  thin, 
and  fill  them  with  the  above  mixture.    Bake  in  a 

69 


70  The  Something-Different  Dish 

moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Cool  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Maids  of  Honor  are  small  lemon  cheese  cakes. 
Richmond  near  London,  claims  this  particular 
dainty  as  its  specialty.  This  is  what  the  village 
gossips  have  to  say  about  them: 

Way  back  in  the  mystic  part  of  the  15  th  cen- 
tury some  ingenious  Richmond  housewife  con- 
cocted a  wonderful  recipe  for  making  sweetened 
cheese  cakes,  and,  thrifty  housewife  that  she  was, 
locked  it  in  a  strong  box,  against  the  onslaughts 
of  borrowing  neighbors.  With  almost  anything 
else  you  could  guess,  "One  of  butter,  two  of  sugar, 
three  of  flour  and  four  of  eggs,"  or  something  of 
the  sort,  and  produce  a  creditable  imitation,  but 
with  "Maids  of  Honor"  it's  different.  Chemists 
have  tried  to  analyze  them,  astrologers  to  cast 
their  horoscopes,  but  one  can  do  nothing  of  the 
sort.  They  defy  detection;  indeed,  you  don't 
really  taste  any  cheese  in  them  at  all,  and  they 
seem  to  appear  for  the  prime  sensible  purpose 
only  of  quickly  disappearing  under  the  motto 
"To  be  eaten." 


Cakes  71 

One  fine  day  Mistress  Anne  Boleyn  found  her- 
self heiress  to  this  precious  recipe.  That  was 
when  she  was  at  the  Court  of  Henry  VIII,  then 
on  his  progress  through  Reading.  In  those  days 
kings  had  a  way  of  happening  around  when  least 
expected,  and  so  when  Mistress  Boleyn  and  her 
honorable  companion  were  feasting  from  her  ad- 
mirable baking,  whiling  away  the  time  that  the 

"King  was  in  his  counting  house, 
Counting  out  the  money; 
The  Queen  was  in  her  pantry, 
Eating  bread  and  honey," 

with  nothing  else  to  do,  the  little  company  sud- 
denly found  Bluff  King  Hal  in  their  midst  roaring 
out,  "What  have  we  here?" 

Before  they  could  answer  him  or  hide  away  the 
feast,  the  Majesty  of  England  sat  him  down,  and, 
as  the  old  chronicle  has  it,  devoured  "foarteen 
gode  cakes  withouten  compunction!"  much  to 
the  sorrow  of  the  hungry  maids  of  honor,  who 
found  little  consolation  in  his  approbation.  So 
good  did  they  taste  he  begged  to  know  the  name 
of  the  delicious  cakes. 


72  The  Something-Different  Dish 

"Your  Majesty,  they  haven't  any,"  Mistress 
Boleyn  was  forced  to  confess.  "Then,"  cried 
the  King,  "since  no  name  have  they  I  shall  stand 
sponsor  to  them;  let  them  be  called  'Maids  of 
Honor'  hereafter,  so  sweet  they  are,"  after  which 
pretty  compliment  in  payment  for  his  feast  he 
strolled  out  into  his  garden. 

Naturally,  the  cakes  immediately  became  the 
talk  of  the  Court,  and,  years  after,  the  recipe 
found  its  way  back  to  "Richmond  Towne." 


TOPS  AND  BOTTOMS 

y£  lb.  (i  cup)  sugar  %  teaspoonful  salt 

14  ozs.  (3^  cups)  flour  2    teaspoonfuls    baking 
}4.  pint  (1  cup)  milk  powder 

4  tablespoonfuls  melted  1  beaten  egg 
butter 

Mix  the  sugar  with  one  cupful  of  the  flour  and 
stir  in  the  milk.  Set  in  a  warm  place  for  five 
hours.  Add  the  melted  butter,  salt,  baking 
powder  and  the  remaining  flour.  Mold  this 
dough  into  balls  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  lay  them 


Bachelor's    Buttons"    is    the    quaint  name    of    tiny  old- 
fashioned    English    cookies.        These    biscuits     are 
often    served    at   afternoon    tea.      They    are 
fine   for  the   lunch   box 


"Tops  and   Bottoms"  is   the  strange   title  of    this  English 

nursery  biscuit   loved   by  children.       The  sweet 

biscuits  are  split  and  browned 


"  No  Matters "  are  sweet  fritters  filled    with    apple    sauce 


Cakes  73 

on  buttered  baking  tins,  brush  over  with  the  beaten 
egg  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  ready. 
When  cold  divide  the  balls  through  the  center; 
rearrange  them  with  the  cut  surface  upward  on 
the  baking  tins,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  they 
are  nicely  browned. 

When  there  are  children  in  the  household  noth- 
ing will  please  them  more  than  an  abundant 
supply  of  the  English  nursery  biscuits  that  bear 
the  strange  title,  "Tops  and  Bottoms." 


NO-MATTERS 

ifA  ozs.  (3  tablespoon-  1  teaspoonful  baking 

fuls)  butter  soda 

^  lb.  (1  cup)  sugar  1   teaspoonful  baking 
1  teaspoonful  lemon  ex-  powder 

tract  Flour 

i~j/2  pints  (3  cups)  sour  Apple  sauce 

milk 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the 
lemon  extract,  milk,  soda,  baking  powder  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  and 
cut  with  a  large  cutter;   fry  in  plenty  of  smoking 


74  The  Something-Different  Dish 

hot  fat.    Drain,  cover  each  with  apple  sauce,  and 
place  two  together. 

No-matters  are  sweet  fritters  filled  with  apple 
sauce. 

BACHELOR'S  BUTTONS 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls)  yi  teaspoonful  rose  ex- 
butter  tract 

3  ozs.  (6  tablespoonfuls)  1  well  beaten  egg 
sugar  5  ozs.  (i]4  cups)  flour 

Cream  the  butter  with  the  sugar;  then  add  the 
rose  extract,  the  egg  and  the  flour.  Knead  on  a 
floured  baking  board,  roll  out  and  cut  with  a  small 
cutter.  Place  on  a  buttered  tin,  sprinkle  over 
with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
ready. 

These  biscuits  are  often  served  at  afternoon  tea. 
They  are  fine  for  the  lunch  box. 

Bachelor's  Buttons  is  the  quaint  name  for  tiny 
old-fashioned  English  cookies. 


"  Philpy  "   is   a  Southern  bread  containing  rice  and 
cornmeal 


.  *Zuse& 


Parliaments "     are    cakes    made    and    sold    in    Scotland 
when  Parliament  was    held    in    Edinburgh 


Siamese  Twins "    is    the  name  of    double    cream    puffs. 

After  the  cakes  are   baked   they  are   glazed   over  with 

fruit    glace    and    decorated    with    whipped  cream 


Cakes  75 

PARLIAMENTS 

2  lbs.  (3  cups)  molasses  2    tablespoonfuls    pow- 

4  ozs.  (>2  cup)  butter  dered  ginger 

2  lbs.  (8  cups)  flour  yi  teaspoonful  salt 

1  teaspoonful  baking 
powder 

Put  the  molasses  into  a  saucepan,  bring  to 
boiling  point,  then  add  the  butter,  and  pour  the 
mixture  upon  the  flour  mixed  with  the  baking 
powder,  ginger  and  salt.  Work  the  dough  well 
with  the  hand  until  quite  smooth,  and  let  it  stand 
a  day  and  a  night;  then  roll  out  very  thin,  and  cut 
into  oblong  shapes.  Lay  the  cakes  on  a  buttered 
tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

Parliaments  are  a  species  of  gingerbread, 
sold  in  small,  thin,  hard  cakes.  Parliament  was 
consumed  by  Thackeray's  Georgy  Osborne.  This 
delicacy  is  referred  to  in  company  with  lollipops 
in  the  "Rejected  Addresses": 

Roll,  roll  thy  hoop,  and  twirl  thy  tops, 
And  buy,  to  glad  thy  smiling  chops, 
Crisp  parliament  and  lollipops, 
And  fingers  of  the  lady. 


yS  The  Something-Different  Dish 

JOHNSON'S  SPANKS 

}4  pint  (i  cup)  cornmeal  i  egg 

%  lb.  (i  cup)  flour  yA  teaspoonful  salt 

2    teaspoonfuls    baking  yi  pint  (i  cup)  milk 

powder  Water 

Mix  the  cornmeal  with  the  flour,  add  the  bak- 
ing powder,  egg  well  beaten,  salt,  milk  and  a  very 
little  water  to  make  a  nice  batter.  Beat  for  two 
minutes,  then  drop  from  the  spoon  into  smoking 
hot  fat,  and  fry  until  nicely  browned.  Serve  at 
once. 

This  is  a  delicious  breakfast  bread  and  is  known, 
for  some  unaccountable  reason,  as  Johnson's 
Spanks. 

PHILPY 

yi    pint    (i    cup)    cold  2  eggs 

boiled  rice  2  tablespoonfuls  melted 
1  pint  (2  cups)  cornmeal  butter 

y?  pint  (1  cup)  milk  yi  teaspoonful  salt 

Put  the  rice  into  a  basin;  add  the  cornmeal, 
milk,  eggs  well  beaten,  melted  butter  and  salt. 
Beat  together  for  five  minutes,  and  spread  the 
batter,   not  too   thick,   in  buttered  baking-tins. 


Cakes  J? 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  ready.    Break  the 
bread  in  pieces,  split,  butter,  and  serve  hot. 


SINGING  HINNIES 

i  lb.  (4  cups)  flour  y2  teaspoonful  salt 

6  ozs.  {}i  cup)  butter  Cream 

yi  pint  (1  cup)  cleaned 
currants 

Sieve  the  flour  and  salt  into  a  basin,  rub  the 
butter  finely  into  it,  then  add  the  currants  and 
make  into  a  soft  dough  with  some  cream.  Roll 
out  rather  thin,  cut  out  with  a  round  cutter,  and 
bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

These  cakes  owe  their  name  to  the  fact  that 
they  make  a  singing  noise  when  being  cooked. 

NUN'S  SIGHS 

1  oz.  (2  tablespoonfuls)  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  ex- 
butter  tract 

>£  pint  (1  cup)  water  4  eggs 

4  ozs.  (1  cup)  flour  Sifted  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  Fat  for  frying 
1  tablespoonful  sugar 


78  The  Something-Different  Dish 

Put  the  butter  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  water, 
bring  to  boiling  point,  add  quickly  the  flour,  salt 
and  sugar,  stir  well  over  the  fire  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  the  mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the 
pan,  remove  from  the  fire,  allow  to  cool,  but  not 
become  cold  and  add  the  extract  and  the  eggs, 
beating  each  one  in  thoroughly.  Put  into  a 
forcing  bag  with  a  star  tube,  force  into  smoking 
hot  fat  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown  color.  Drain 
and  serve  dusted  over  with  sifted  sugar. 


LOG  OF  WOOD  CAKE 

4  eggs  Strawberry  jam 

yi  lb.  (i  cup)  sugar  Marzipan  icing 

i  lemon  Coffee  or  chocolate  fon- 
Yz  lb.  (2  cups)  flour  dant 

2    teaspoonfuls    baking  Few         blanched        and 
powder  chopped   pistachio  nuts 

6  ozs.  [}/i  cup)  butter  2  little  robins 
Few  drops  red  color 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemon  into  a  basin,  add 
the  eggs  and  sugar,  and  beat  over  a  pan  of  boiling 
water.     Remove  from  the  hot  water  when  thick 


Cakes  79 

and  white  and  beat  until  cold,  then  add  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  the  butter,  melted.  Color 
one-half  pink  with  red  color  and  leave  the  other 
half  yellow.  Bake  the  mixture  in  two  flat  but- 
tered tins  about  twelve  inches  square;  it  should 
be  an  inch  in  thickness  when  baked.  Let  cool, 
and  then  cut  in  long  strips,  spread  each  strip  with 
sieved  strawberry  jam,  and  place  them  together, 
one  pink  and  one  yellow  alternately,  three  or  four 
in  a  row,  and  one  row  above  the  other  until  you 
have  the  same  number  each  way.  Press  them  all 
together  and  roll  up  in  a  piece  of  white  paper  until 
stuck.  Form  knots  with  round  pieces  of  marzipan 
icing,  cover  these  knots  and  the  ends  of  the  cake 
with  fondant  icing  and  mark  them  with  a  little 
melted  chocolate  or  brown  color.  Put  some  choco- 
late or  coffee  fondant  icing  into  a  bag  with  a  tube 
and  force  it  along  the  sides  and  top  of  the  cake  to 
represent  the  bark  of  a  tree,  then  sprinkle  over 
with  a  few  chopped  pistachio  nuts  and  decorate 
with  two  little  robins  and  a  pink  flower  and  three 
green  leaves  made  of  marzipan. 


80  The  Something-Different  Dish 

To  make  fondant  icing.  Put  three  pounds  of 
sugar  into  a  saucepan,  add  two  cupfuls  of  cold 
water,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  glucose, 
and  allow  it  to  boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in 
cold  water.  Let  the  bubbles  die  down,  and  pour 
into  a  basin  which  has  been  rinsed  out  with  cold 
water.  When  you  can  bear  your  finger  in  the 
middle,  begin  to  cream  it,  and  when  thick,  put 
your  hands  in  and  knead  and  squeeze  until  it  is 
a  solid,  firm,  creamy  mass.  Then  flavor  and  color 
it  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

To  make  marzipan  icing:  Mix  in  a  basin  ten 
ounces  of  fondant  with  eight  ounces  of  ground 
almonds.  Boil  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  two  cup- 
fuls of  water  to  soft  ball.  During  the  boiling 
add  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  almond  extract,  then  pour  it  quickly 
on  to  the  ingredients  in  basin.  Get  some  one  to 
hold  the  basin  firmly  for  you,  while  with  a  wooden 
spoon  you  stir  as  quickly  as  you  can  as  the  mass 
begins  to  harden;    turn  out  on  to  a  clean  baking- 


Cakes  81 

board  and  knead  and  roll  until  it  is  smooth. 
Color  it  while  it  is  warm.  It  will  keep  for  three 
weeks.  Should  it  be  too  hard  when  you  want  to 
work  it,  add  a  few  drops  of  lukewarm  water  and 
knead  it,  or  roll  it  out  with  a  rolling-pin  until  it 
becomes  soft  and  pliable. 


FAGGOTS 

$/i  lb.  (3  cups)  flour  Flavor  to  taste 

yi  lb.  (>2  cup)  butter  1  egg 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls)  Milk 
sugar 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  the  sugar 
and  a  flavor,  to  taste,  of  whatever  spice  may  be 
liked  best,  or  of  grated  orange  or  lemon  peel. 
If  desired,  no  special  flavoring  need  be  used;  or, 
in  preference  to  those  mentioned,  a  few  sweet 
almonds  finely  grated  with  as  much  of  a  bitter 
one  as  will  give  an  agreeable  but  not  too  pro- 
nounced a  flavor,  may  be  employed. 

Beat  up  the  egg  until  light,  and  having  thor- 
oughly mixed  the  dry  ingredients,  work  them  to 


82  The  Something-Different  Dish 

a  suitable  consistency  with  it,  adding  a  small 
quantity  of  milk  or  part  of  another  beaten  egg 
if  the  dough  is  too  dry.  Turn  the  mass  out  on  a 
sugared  pastry  board,  roll  out  to  a  piece  about 
one-half  inch  thick,  divide  this  into  strips  about 
the  thickness  of  two  fingers  and  the  length  of  one, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  nice  and  crisp. 
Serve  hot  or  cold  with  butter. 


PETTICOAT  TAILS 

yi  lb.  (i  cup)  butter  i  tablespoonful  cream 

6  ozs.  i^i  cup)  sugar  i  lb.  (4  cups)  flour 

1  beaten  egg 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  thor- 
oughly in  a  basin,  add  the  egg,  cream  and  flour 
very  gradually.  Turn  out  on  a  floured  baking 
board,  knead  until  smooth,  and  roll  out  into  a 
large  round.  Cut  out  a  small  round  from  the 
center,  then  divide  the  remaining  portion  into 
eight  pieces.  Pinch  the  edges,  mark  all  over 
with  a  fork,  and  lay  on  a  buttered  baking  tin. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 


Cry-Babies"  are  tearful-looking,  soft,  rich  ginger  cakes 


'  Love  Wells  "  are  small,  dainty,  round  cakes  very  suitable 

for  wedding  or  engagement    parties.     The    centers 

hold   sweet  red -currant  jelly  and  pistachio 

nuts 


Irresistibles  "  are  well  named  and  are   favorites.      These 

are  made  of  sponge  or   layer  cake   mixture,  almond 

paste,   strawberry    jam,  whipped   cream    and 

nut    meats 


Cakes  83 

These  small  shortbreads  of  Scotland  which  go 
by  the  name  of  Petticoat  Tails  have  a  connec- 
tion with  a  royal  personage,  for  it  is  commonly 
believed  that  Mary,  Queen  of  Scots,  brought 
from  France  the  recipe  "petits  gateaux  tailes," 
which  name  soon  became  corrupted  to  petticoat 
tails. 


CRY-BABIES 

yi  pint  (1  cup)  strong  1  teaspoonful  grated  nut- 
hot  coffee  meg 

2  eggs  2    teaspoonfuls    baking 
}4  pint  (1  cup)  molasses  soda 

yi  lb.  (1  cup)  sugar  >£  teaspoonful  salt 

x/2  lb.  (1  cup)  butter  1  teaspoonful  vinegar 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  Flour 

ginger  Frosting  if  liked 

Mix  together  the  coffee,  molasses,  eggs  well 
beaten,  sugar,  butter,  spices,  soda,  salt,  vinegar, 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  drop  batter.  Drop 
with  a  teaspoon  on  a  buttered  baking  tin,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  ready.  Frost  them  if 
liked. 


84  The  Something-Different  Dish 


\]/2  lbs.  (6  cups)  flour 
yi  lb.  (i  cup)  butter  or 

drippings 
}4  lb.  (i  cup)  sugar 
i  pint  (2  cups)  cleaned 

currants 

1  pint  (2  cups)  seeded 
raisins 

2  tablespoonfuls  baking 
powder 

1  teaspoonful  powdered 
allspice 


ROUGH  ROBIN 

2  teaspoonfuls  powdered 

cinnamon 
2  teaspoonfuls  powdered 

ginger 

1  teaspoonful  grated  nut- 
meg 

l/i  teaspoonful  salt 

2  beaten  eggs 
Milk  to  moisten 
]/2  lb.   (2  cups)  potato 

flour 


Rub  the  butter  or  drippings  finely  into  the 
flours,  then  add  the  sugar,  spices,  salt,  fruit  and 
eggs;  mix  well  with  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Pour  into  a  well-buttered  and  floured  cake  tin. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  hours. 


LOVE  WELLS 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls) 

butter 
2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls) 

sugar 
1  large  beaten  egg 
y*  pint  (1  cup)  flour 


]/2    teaspoonful    baking 

powder 
Red  currant  jelly 
Blanched   and   chopped 

pistachio  nuts 


Cakes  85 

Cream  the  butter  with  the  sugar;  add  the  egg, 
beat  well,  then  add  the  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Knead  on  a  floured  baking  board  and  roll  out  one- 
eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  stamp  out  some  rounds 
with  a  cutter.  When  the  mixture  has  all  been 
cut  out  into  these  rounds  take  half  of  them,  and, 
with  a  smaller  cutter,  take  out  the  centers,  so  as 
to  form  rings.  Wet  these  rings  and  place  them 
on  the  top  of  the  plain  rounds;  put  them  on  a 
buttered  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
ten  minutes.  When  done,  take  them  up  and 
let  them  cool;  then  fill  the  center  of  each  with 
red  currant  jelly.  Sprinkle  over  with  the  pis- 
tachio nuts. 

Love  wells,  or  Gateaux  de  Putis  d' Amour,  are 
dainty  jam  tarts,  with  a  rather  ambitious  title, 
and  an  example  of  what  the  French  ladies  used 
to  call  chatteries,  i.  e.,  delicacies  for  company. 
They  were  much  in  use  at  the  end  of  the  seven- 
teenth century. 


86  The  Something-Different  Dish 

IRRESISTIBLES 

i  sponge  cake  or  layer        yi    teaspoonful    vanilla 

cake  extract 

4  ozs.  {}4  cup)  sugar  Strawberry  jam 

i  gill  {}4  cup)  ground        Whipped  and  sweetened 

almonds  cream 

Few  chopped  nut  meats 

Make  and  bake  a  sponge  cake  or  layer  cake 
mixture  in  a  flat,  shallow  tin;  when  done,  turn  it 
out  on  a  sieve  to  cool.  Mix  the  sugar  and  ground 
almonds;  make  them  into  a  stiff  paste  with  a 
very  little  water  flavored  with  the  vanilla  extract. 
Knead  this  almond  paste  on  a  board  dusted  with 
sugar  and  roll  out  carefully.  Cut  it  out  in  rounds 
with  a  crinkly  cutter,  then  cut  out  the  cake  with 
the  same  cutter.  Slice  these  pieces  of  cake  into 
pieces  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Take  one  of 
these  pieces,  spread  it  over  with  a  thin  layer  of 
strawberry  jam,  place  on  this  one  of  the  rounds 
of  almond  paste,  then  add  another  layer  of  jam 
and  another  piece  of  cake.  Top  with  whipped  and 
sweetened  cream  and  a  few  chopped  nut  meats. 

Irresistibles  are  well  named  and  are  favorites. 


Cakes  87 

KICKSHAWS 

Some  rich  pastry  1  beaten  egg 

Apple  jelly  Pinch  of  salt 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  %  teaspoonful  lemon  ex-     ' 

butter  tract 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

sugar 

Line  some  tartlet  tins  with  pastry.  Put  one 
teaspoonful  of  apply  jelly  into  each.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  egg,  salt,  lemon 
extract  and  flour.  Mix  and  divide  into  the  tart- 
let tins.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Sift  a  little  sugar  over  the  top  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

"Kickshaws"  were  made  in  Shakespeare's  time. 


CORNISH  SPLITS 

^4  lb.  (3  cups)  flour  Buttermilk  or  water 

]4.  lb.  (1  cup)  butter  or  yi  pint  (1  cup)  cleaned 

clarified  drippings  currants 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  the  sugar, 
salt   and   currants   and   moisten   with    sufficient 


88  The  Something-Different  Dish 

buttermilk  or  water  to  work  into  a  nice  smooth 
paste;  roll  out  one  and  one-half  inches  thick,  cut 
out  with  a  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  twelve 
minutes.  Split  with  a  fork,  spread  with  creamed 
butter,  and  serve  very  hot. 


PIKELETS 

i  lb.  (4  cups)  flour  1  pint  (2  cups)  tepid  milk 

1  cake  compressed  yeast        3  well-beaten  eggs 
1  teaspoonful  sugar  yi  teaspoonful  salt 

Put  the  yeast  and  sugar  into  a  little  basin  and 
mix  them  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  they  are 
liquid;  then  add  the  milk.  Sieve  the  flour  and 
salt  into  a  large  basin,  and  stir  in  the  milk  and 
the  beaten  eggs.  Beat  the  batter  for  five  minutes, 
then  put  it  into  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  one  and 
one-half  hours. 

Drop  in  large  spoonfuls  into  buttered  rings  on  a 
greased  griddle,  turning  over,  so  as  to  cook  both 
sides  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  them  at  once  spread 
with  butter.  If  more  convenient,  they  may  be 
baked  in  a  very  hot  oven. 


Cakes  89 

Pikelets   are   old-fashioned   English   breakfast 
hot  cakes. 


SIAMESE  TWINS 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonf uls)  1  teaspoonful  sugar 

butter  4  eggs 

}4.  pint  (1  cup)  water  Fruit  glace 

%  pint  (1  cup)  flour  Stars   of   whipped    and 
X  teaspoonful  salt  sweetened  cream 

Siamese  Twins  is  the  name  of  double  cream 
puffs. 

Put  the  butter  into  a  small  saucepan;  add  the 
water  and  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point;  add  the 
flour  sifted  with  the  salt  and  sugar;  stir  well  with 
a  wooden  spoon  until  the  mixture  leaves  the  sides 
of  the  pan,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  allow  to 
cool  but  not  become  cold;  add  the  eggs,  beating 
each  one  in  thoroughly.  Set  away  in  a  cool  place 
for  one  hour.  Put  into  a  forcing  bag  with  a  tube; 
force  it  out  into  two  rounds  each  about  the  size 
of  a  large  walnut,  join  the  two  together,  brush 
over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  thirty  minutes.     Set  aside  until  cold, 


90         The  Something-Different  Dish 

then  glaze  over  with  the  fruit  glace;  when  this 
is  set,  decorate  each  puff  with  a  star  of  whipped 
and  sweetened  cream. 

To  make  the  fruit  glace,  put  three-fourths  of 
a  pound  of  confectioners'  sugar  into  a  pan;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  fruit  syrup,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  warm  water  and  a  few  drops  of  red  color; 
mix  together,  just  warm  over  the  fire  and  use  at 
once. 

SALLY  LUNNS 

f^  lb.  (3  cups)  flour  i  compressed  yeast  cake 

1  oz.  (2  tablespoonfuls)  i}4  gills  (24  cup)  milk 

butter  yi  teaspoonful  salt 

1  oz.  (2  tablespoonfuls)  1  beaten  egg 

sugar 

Sieve  the  flour  and  salt  into  a  basin,  rub  in  the 
butter  lightly.  Stir  the  sugar  and  yeast  together 
until  liquid;  add  to  them  the  milk,  which  should 
be  just  tepid.  Beat  up  the  egg  and  add  it  to  the 
milk  and  yeast.  Make  a  hollow  in  the  middle  of 
the  flour,  strain  in  the  yeast,  et  cetera,  mix  to  a 
soft  but  not  sticky  dough.     Knead  it  lightly  on  a 


Cakes  91 

well  floured  baking  board.  Butter  well  two  plain 
round  cake  tins,  divide  the  dough  into  two  cakes, 
drop  one  into  each  tin.  Cover  the  tops  with  a 
piece  of  paper,  put  the  tins  in  a  warm  place  until 
the  dough  has  risen  and  filled  them.  This  will 
probably  take  one  hour.  Next  put  them  in  a  hot 
oven  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes.  When  cooked, 
turn  them  out  of  the  tins.  Brush  the  tops  over 
with  a  little  warmed  milk  and  butter,  and  leave 
them  on  a  sieve  until  cold. 

Besides  being  excellent  cut  in  slices,  toasted, 
buttered  and  served  hot,  they  are  very  good  sliced 
as  ordinary  bread  and  butter. 

Sally  Lunn  was  a  Bath  celebrity  who,  at  the 
end  of  the  eighteenth  century,  kept  a  cake  shop 
which  was  a  favorite  resort  for  both  youth  and 
age  in  the  old  West  of  England  country  town. 
Sally  originally  carried  out  her  cakes,  morning 
and  evening,  in  a  basket  with  a  white  cover. 
Later  her  small  shop  on  Lilliput  Alley  became  a 
favorite  haunt,  and  Dalmer,  a  baker  and  musician, 
seeing  that  it  was  a  very  good  thing,  bought  the 
business,  composed  a  song  about  the  cakes  and 


92  The  Something-Different  Dish 

set  it  to  music.  This  song  became  a  popular 
street  ditty,  and  barrows  were  used  to  distribute 
the  now  celebrated  cakes. 


KING  HENRY'S  SHOESTRINGS 

%  lb.  (i  cup)  flour  4  yolks  of  eggs 

i  oz.  (2  tabl'espoonfuls)  3  whites  of  eggs 

butter  y$  pint  {}4  cup)  ground 
xyi  ozs.  (3  tablespoon-  almonds 

fuls)  sugar  1  lemon 
^4  pint  (^2  cup)  milk 

Sieve  the  flour  into  a  pan,  rub  the  butter  into 
it,  add  the  sugar,  strained  juice  of  the  lemon  and 
the  milk.  When  well  mixed  stir  over  the  fire  for 
about  ten  minutes  or,  till  the  batter  comes  easily 
from  the  sides  of  the  saucepan.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
almonds.  Mix  and  allow  to  cool.  Then  add  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Spread  the  bat- 
ter out  on  a  buttered  tin.  Dredge  plenty  of 
sugar  over,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten 
minutes,  cut  it  out  in  strips  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 


1^ 


Lobs-Lie-by-the-Fire  "  are    scones    made    of    sour    milk 


Cat's  Tongues"   are    delicious    tea  cakes   that  are    great 
favorites    in  Continental  Europe 


Pikelets  "  are  old-fashioned  English  breakfast   hot    cakes. 
They  are   raised  with  yeast,  cooked  on  a   greased 
griddle  and  served   hot  with  butter 


Cakes  93 

LOBS-LIE-BY-THE-FIRE 

i  lb.  (4  cups)  flour  yi    pint    (1    cup)    sour 

y^  teaspoonful  salt  milk 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  1     teaspoonful     baking 

tartar  soda 

Sieve  the  flour,  salt  and  cream  of  tartar  into  a 
basin.  Stir  the  baking  soda  into  the  sour  milk, 
which  will  cause  it  to  froth,  and  at  once  work  the 
dry  ingredients  to  a  smooth  dough  with  the 
effervescing  liquid.  Dredge  the  baking-board 
thickly  with  flour,  turn  the  mass  on  it,  knead  for 
a  moment  or  two  to  insure  perfect  smoothness, 
dredge  a  little  flour  over  both  dough  and  rolling- 
pin,  and  roll  out  quickly  to  about  one-third  of  an 
inch  thick.  Cut  out  with  a  cutter  and  bake  on  a 
hot  griddle,  turning  the  scones  as  they  brown  on 
one  side.  Send  to  the  table  piping  hot,  and  eat 
with  butter. 

If  preferred  the  dough  can  be  sweetened; 
again,  if  wished,  a  little  spice  or  a  few  crushed 
carraway  seeds  may  be  introduced  as  a  flavoring. 
The  same  recipe  will  be  found  to  answer  for  but- 
termilk griddles,  but  in  this  case  the  milk  employed 


94  The  Something-Different  Dish 

not  being  sour,  the  cakes,  of  course,  would  not  be 
"Lobs." 


CATS'  TONGUES 

yi  lb.  (i  cup)  butter  5  whites  of  eggs 

6  ozs.  {yi  cup)  confec-  yi    teaspoonful    vanilla 

tioners'  sugar  extract 

2  ozs.  i}/2  cup)  flour 

Cream  the  butter  and  gradually  add  the  sugar; 
mix  well  for  a  few  minutes  and  incorporate  one 
by  one  the  whites  of  eggs.  Now  add  the  vanilla 
extract  and  the  flour.  Mix  well,  then  place  in 
small  long  heaps  on  a  buttered  and  floured  bak- 
ing-tin. Bake  in  a  cool  oven  until  a  pale  brown 
color. 

Cats'  tongues  are  delicious  tea  cakes  that  are 
great  favorites  in  Europe. 


FAT  RASCALS 

1  lb.  (4  cups)  flour  ]/2  pint  (1  cup)  warm 

1  teaspoonful  salt  milk 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  yeast  cake 

1  egg 


%g#I 


Bird's-Nest  Cake  " 


Fat  Rascals  " 


Cakes  95 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  salt,  then  rub  the  butter 
into  it.  Beat  up  the  egg,  add  the  milk,  the  yeast 
cake  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Make  a  hollow 
in  the  center  of  the  flour,  pour  in  the  liquid,  beat 
in  the  flour  from  the  sides  until  well  mixed,  then 
cover  with  a  clean  cloth  and  leave  it  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  When  the  surface  of  the  dough  is 
full  of  cracks,  divide  into  small,  round  cakes,  the 
shape  of  a  tiny  and  very  plump  dough  bun; 
arrange  these,  with  good  spaces  between,  on  a 
greased  tin,  cover  with  a  cloth  again  and  leave  to 
rise.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  ready  and 
serve  hot,  split  open  and  spread  with  butter. 


BIRDS'  NEST  CAKE 

4  eggs  8  ozs.   (i   cup)   confec- 
4  ozs.  (i  cup)  flour  tioners'  sugar 

4  ozs.  (i  cup)  cornstarch  Some  chopped  almonds 

4  ozs.  {}4  cup)  sugar  4  ozs.  i}/i  cup)  butter 

1   teaspoonful  baking  Few  drops  green  color 

powder  Few  candy  eggs 
Some  apricot  jam 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  the  sugar  until 


g6  The  Something-Different  Dish 

thick,  then  stir  in  the  flour,  cornstarch  and  baking 
powder.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  and  add  them. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  a  round  buttered  and 
floured  cake  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
thirty-five  minutes.  Have  ready  some  slightly 
browned,  coarsely  chopped  almonds.  Remove  a 
part  of  the  center  of  the  cake  and  replace  it  with 
a  large  candy  egg.  Spread  the  jam  on  the  sides 
of  the  cake  and  sprinkle  on  the  almonds.  Rub 
the  confectioners'  sugar  through  a  sieve  into  a 
basin,  add  the  butter  and  beat  to  a  smooth  cream. 
Add  the  green  color  drop  by  drop  until  the  color 
is  right.  Chill  the  icing,  then  with  a  small  bag 
and  plain  tube  force  it  around  the  edge  of  the  cake 
to  represent  the  twigs  of  the  nest. 
Arrange  some  candy  eggs  around  the  border. 

GIMBLETS 

4  ozs.  (i  cup)  flour  3  ozs.  (6  tablespoonfuls) 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls)  butter 

sugar  yi  lemon 

1  egg 

Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together,  rub  the  but- 


Cakes  97 

ter  into  them  and  add  the  grated  lemon  rind. 
Lay  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  thirty  minutes.  Roll 
out  about  one-fourth  inch  thick.  Cut  out  with 
a  small  doughnut  cutter,  brush  over  with  the  egg 
well  beaten,  lay  on  a  buttered  tin,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 


JERSEY  WONDERS 

3  ozs.  (6  tablespoonfuls)  %    teaspoonful    grated 

butter  nutmeg 

6  ozs.  (i}4  cups)  flour  1     teaspoonful     baking 

6  ozs.  {i}4  cups)  corn-  powder 

starch  2  eggs 

2  ozs.  (4  tablespoonfuls)  Milk  or  water 

sugar  Raspberry  jam 

Hot  fat 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  corn-starch  and 
baking  powder,  add  the  sugar,  nutmeg,  eggs  well 
beaten  and  sufficient  milk  or  water  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Fry  in  smoking  hot  fat,  a  teaspoon- 
ful at  a  time.  When  nearly  cold,  make  a  hole  in 
the  top,  fill  with  raspberry  jam,  and  dust  over 
with  fine  sugar. 


98  The  Something-Different  Dish 

HARD  TACK 

%  lb.    (1   cup)   stoned,  4  ozs.  (1  cup)  flour 

chopped  dates  Pinch  salt 

yi  lb.  (1  cup)  chopped  y$    teaspoonful    baking 

walnut  meats  powder 

2  eggs  ]4.    teaspoonful   almond 

yi  lb.  (1  cup)  sugar  extract 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  add  the  nuts, 
dates,  extract  and  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Put  in  a 
shallow  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  thirty  or  forty  minutes.  When  cool  cut  in 
short  strips  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

This  makes  a  wholesome  cake,  easily  baked  and 
easily  served,  especially  nice  with  ice  cream. 


TIPSY  CAKE 

1  large  sponge  cake  \yi  pints  (3  cups)  boiled 

1   gill   {}4   cup)    sherry  custard 

wine  1  gill  {}4  cup)  blanched 

1  gill  {yi  cup)  brandy  almonds 

Bake  a  sponge  cake  in  a  fancy  mold  and  allow 
it  to  become  stale.  Place  the  cake  on  a  dish,  and 
pour  over  the  sherry  and  brandy;  as  it  runs  round 


Cakes 


99 


the  dish,  spoon  it  up  and  pour  over  again;  con- 
tinue in  this  way  until  the  liquor  is  all  used  up. 
Blanch  the  almonds,  cut  them  in  strips,  and  stick 
them  all  over  the  cake.  At  serving  time  place 
the  cake  on  a  pretty  dish  and  pour  the  custard 
round.     Serve  cold. 


SIMNEL  CAKE 

$i  lb.  (3  cups)  flour 
yi  lb.  (1  cup)  sugar 
]4.  lb.  (1  cup)  butter 
4  eggs 
yi  lb.  (2  cups)  seedless 

raisins 
yi,  lb.  (1  cup)  currants 
yi,   lb.    (1   cup)   sultana 

raisins 
yi  lb.  candied  citron  peel 


yi   lb.    candied    orange 

peel 
yi  lb.  candied  lemon  peel 
1  gill  {yi  cup)  milk 
1    teaspoonful    mixed 

spices 
3  tablespoonfuls  orange 

flower  water  or  brandy 
Almond  paste 


Line  a  buttered  cake  tin  with  two  folds  of  thick 
white  paper.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  thor- 
oughly together,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  beat 
again,  then  add  spices,  milk,  orange  flower  water 
or  brandy,  flour,  the  whites  of  eggs  stiffly  beaten, 
chopped  peels  and  the  fruit.    Turn  the  mixture 


ioo       The  Something-Different  Dish 

into  the  prepared  cake  tin,  smooth  it  over  the 
top,  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven  until  well  risen 
and  firm  to  the  touch. 

When  cold  place  the  almond  paste  on  the  top. 
Sometimes  a  layer  of  almond  paste  is  put  in  the 
middle  of  this  cake.  When  this  is  desired,  one- 
half  of  the  almond  paste  should  be  made  before 
the  cake  is  baked,  and  this  should  be  made  in  a 
round  the  size  of  the  cake  tin,  and  laid  in  the  middle 
of  the  mixture  before  baking. 

To  make  the  almond  paste,  mix  one  pound  of 
ground  almonds  with  one-half  pound  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  one-half  pound  of  confectioners' 
sugar,  the  strained  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  one  tablespoonful  of 
almond  extract  and  enough  egg  to  bind  all  to- 
gether. Either  yolks  or  whites  of  eggs  may  be 
used;  the  yolks  will  make  the  paste  yellower  and 
richer,  the  whites  drier,  and  of  a  paler  color. 
Whole  eggs  may  be  used  if  it  is  more  convenient. 
The  paste  ought  to  be  just  moist  enough  to  be 
bound  together. 

Simnel  cake  has  a  legendary  history:     Long 


Cakes  101 

ago  an  old  couple  were  making  their  cake  for 
Mothering  Sunday,  when  the  children  would 
return  home  for  the  Mid-Lent  holiday.  Why  the 
old  man  meddled  with  the  cake-making  nobody 
tells,  but  so  determined  was  he  that  it  should  be 
boiled,  and  so  determined  was  his  wife  that  it 
should  be  baked,  they  came  to  a  quarrel.  Finally 
they  decided  to  split  the  difference  by  boiling  it 
half  the  time  and  baking  it  the  other  half.  The 
old  man's  name  was  "Sim,"  the  old  lady's 
"Nelly";  and  the  cake  is  called  "Simnel"  in 
honor  of  both.  Simnel  cake  today  is  always 
baked,  proving  that  no  man  has  any  right  to 
interfere  in  the  affairs  of  the  kitchen. 


BRAMBLES 

%  lb.  (i  cup)  seeded  rai-  i  lemon 

sins  i  egg 

5  walnuts  Grated  nutmeg  to  taste 

2  ozs.  (}4  cup)  currants  Pastry 
4  ozs.  (yi  cup)  sugar 

Chop  the  raisins  and  walnuts,  and  mix  them 


102        The  Something-Different  Dish 

with  the  currants,  sugar,  nutmeg,  the  egg,  well 
beaten,  and  the  grated  rind  and  strained  juice  of 
the  lemon. 

Roll  out  the  pastry,  and  cut  out  some  rounds 
the  size  of  a  small  saucer.  Fill  one-half  with  the 
raisin  mixture,  wet  the  edges  with  water,  turn  the 
other  over,  and  pinch  the  edges  together.  Place 
the  brambles  on  a  greased  tin,  brush  over  the 
surface  with  sweetened  milk  or  beaten  egg,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes. 


MERRY  MONARCHS 

i  lb.  (4  cups)  flour  yi  lb.  (2  cups)  currants 

6  ozs.  ()4  cup)  sugar  2    teaspoonfuls    baking 

6  ozs.  (24  CUP)  butter  powder 

3  eggs  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  ex- 

yi  teaspoonful  salt  tract 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  to- 
gether, add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  well 
after  each  one,  add  the  extract,  flour,  salt,  baking 
powder  and  currants. 

Mix  well  and  drop  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut 


Cakes  103 

on  a  buttered  tin.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  eight 
minutes. 

MELTING  MOMENTS 

6  ozs.  (24  cup)  butter  1    teaspoonful      baking 

8  ozs.  (2  cups)  cornstarch  powder 

3  ozs.  (6  tablespoonfuls)        2  eggs 
sugar  }4  teaspoonful  rose  ex- 

tract 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  to- 
gether, beat  up  the  eggs  and  add  them  alter- 
nately with  the  cornstarch  mixed  with  the  baking 
powder,  then  add  the  rose  extract.  Divide  the 
mixture  into  buttered  and  floured  gem  pans  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES 


SUCCOTASH 

i    pint    (2    cups)    lima        >£  pint  (i  cup)  boiling 

beans  milk 

i  pint  (2  cups)  corn  pulp        Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
i  oz.  (2  tablespoonfuls) 

butter 

Cook  the  beans  until  tender  in  boiling  salted 
water,  add  the  corn  pulp  and  cook  for  thirty  min- 
utes, then  add  the  milk,  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
and  simmer  for  five  minutes  longer.  Stir  con- 
stantly, as  it  burns  easily.  Pour  the  succotash 
into  a  hot  serving  dish  and  serve  at  once. 

This  dish  is  particularly  good  prepared  with 
dried  or  canned  beans  and  either  dried  or  canned 
corn.  If  dried  vegetables  are  used,  allow  to  soak 
over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover,  then  drain  and 
boil. 

To  remove  the  pulp  from  the  ears  of  corn  with- 
107 


108       The  Something-Different  Dish 

out  the  hull,  cut  down  through  the  center  of  each 
row  of  kernels  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  press  out 
the  pulp  with  the  back  of  the  knife,  leaving  the 
hull  on  the  cob. 

For  a  change,  add  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
tomato  pulp  or  one  chopped  onion. 

Succotash  is  a  dish  borrowed  from  the  Narra- 
gansetts  and  called  by  them  "m'sickquatash." 


ROULETTES 

Thin  slices  Graham  or  Chopped  capers 

Boston  brown  bread  yi  teaspoonful  lemon- 

i  gill  (>^  cup)  chopped  juice 

cooked  chicken  2  hard-cooked  eggs 

1  gill  (j^  cup)  chopped  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped 
cooked  ham  parsley 

Anchovy  paste 

Remove  the  crusts  from  the  bread.  Pound 
the  chicken  and  ham  together,  then  mix  them  to 
taste  with  anchovy  paste,  chopped  capers  and 
lemon-juice.  Spread  the  slices  of  bread  with 
this  mixture;  roll  each  slice  neatly,  butter  the 
outside  of  each  roulette  lightly,  then  roll  one- 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  109 

half  of  them  in  chopped  parsley  and  the  other 
half  in  chopped  hard-cooked  whites  of  eggs  or 
sieved  yolks  of  hard-cooked  eggs. 
Serve  as  an  appetizer. 


ADAM  AND  EVE  ON  A  RAFT 

Round  of  bread  Butter  or  lard 

2  eggs  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cut  a  large  round  of  bread,  and  fry  it  in  hot 
butter  or  lard  until  a  golden  brown.  Then  place 
it  on  a  hot  platter,  and  keep  warm.  Poach  the 
eggs  carefully,  season  to  taste  and  lay  side  by  side 
on  the  bread. 

RICTUM-DITY 

^  pint  (1  cup)  grated  1  teaspoonful  salt 

cheese  2  beaten  eggs 

1  can  tomatoes  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

yi  small  grated  onion  1  green  pepper,  chopped 

Mix  the  tomatoes,  cheese,  onion  and  the  pepper. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  chafing-dish,  add  the  mixture, 
and  when  heated  add  the  salt  and  the  eggs  well 
beaten.     Cook  until  the  eggs  are  of  a  creamy 


no        The  Something-Different  Dish 

consistency,  stirring  and  scraping  from  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan.  Serve  at  once  with  crackers 
or  strips  of  buttered  toast. 


ENGLISH  MONKEY 

)4  pint  (i  cup)  milk  ^  oz.  (i}4  tablespoon- 

y2    pint    (i    cup)    stale  fuls)  butter 

bread  crumbs  i  beaten  egg 

i  gill  {}4  cup)  soft,  mild        ^  teaspoonful  salt 

cheese  in  small  pieces        Red  pepper  to  taste 

Toasted  crackers 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  chafing-dish,  add 
the  cheese,  stir  until  melted,  then  add  the  bread 
crumbs,  and  when  hot,  add  the  seasonings  and 
the  egg.  Cook  for  three  minutes  and  pour  over 
toasted  crackers. 


ROBIN'S  NEST  SALAD 

Ripe  peaches  i  beaten  white  of  egg 

Blanched  hazel  nuts  i  teaspoonful  almond  ex- 

Seeded  grapes  tract 

i  pint  (2  cups)  whipping 
cream 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  in 

On  each  individual  salad  dish,  place  one-half 
of  a  large  golden  peach,  cut  side  up;  in  the  hollow 
of  each  peach,  put  six  blanched  hazel  nuts  and 
six  seeded  grapes  with  powdered  sugar  to  taste. 

Beat  up  the  cream,  add  the  white  of  egg  and 
almond  extract.  Place  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
cream  over  the  fruit  and  serve. 


GOLDEN  BUCK 

%  lb.  cheese  }4    teaspoonful     lemon 

2  eggs  juice 

yi  oz.  (i  tablespoonful)  2  tablespoonfuls  ale 

butter  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

yi  teaspoonful  Worces-  Finger  shaped  pieces  hot 

tershire  sauce  buttered  toast 

Grate  or  chop  the  cheese  finely,  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  butter  and  ale,  and  stir  it 
over  the  fire  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  cream. 
Then  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  the  Worcestershire 
sauce,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Stir  this  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  thickens. 
Arrange  the  toast  on  a  hot  platter,  pour  the  mix- 
ture over  it  and  serve  immediately. 


112        The  Something-Different  Dish 

Another  method.  Make  four  pieces  of  buttered 
toast  and  keep  them  hot.  Poach  four  eggs,  and 
trim  them  neatly.  Put  one-half  pound  of  grated 
or  chopped  cheese  into  a  saucepan,  add  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  ale,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  stir 
over  the  fire  until  melted.  Pour  over  the  toast, 
placing  a  poached  egg  on  each  piece.  Serve  very 
hot. 

SACK  POSSET 

]/2  pint  (i  cup)  ale  i  grated  nutmeg 

yi  pint  (i  cup)  sherry        y2  lb.  (i  cup)  sugar 

wine  2  yolks  of  eggs 

i  quart  (4  cups)  boiling 

milk  or  cream 

Mix  the  ale  and  sherry  wine  and  heat,  then  add 
the  milk  or  cream,  nutmeg  and  sugar.  Draw  the 
saucepan  to  the  back  of  the  fire,  and  let  the  con- 
tents simmer  for  an  hour.  Just  before  serving 
beat  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  serve  very  hot. 

This  is  a  recipe  which  is  credited  to  no  less  a 
person  than  Sir  Walter  Raleigh. 


.Ate 


Devils  on   Horseback"    are    probably  so  called   because 
they  go  so  fast  after  being  tasted 


'  Tom  Thumbs  "  are  savory  titbits  for  breakfast  or  luncheon, 

made    with    eggs,    cheese,    bread    crumbs,     milk, 

parsley  and  sweetenings.      Bake  and 

serve  hot 


Hopping  John  "  combines  bacon,  dried  peas  and  rice  in  a 
cheap  and  nourishing  dish 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  113 

TOM  THUMBS 

Eggs  Milk 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  Grated  cheese 

Chopped  parsley  Bread  crumbs 
Chopped  chives 

Take  some  ramekins,  butter  them  and  break 
two  eggs  into  each;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
parsley  and  chives;  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  cover  with  grated  cheese  and  a  few  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  ready.     Serve  hot. 


A  YARD  OF  FLANNEL,  OR  EGG  FLIP 

1  quart  (4  cups)  ale  ]/*    teaspoonful    grated 
4  yolks  of  eggs  nutmeg 

2  whites  of  eggs  y2  teaspoonful  powdered 
4  ozs.    ($4  cup)  brown  ginger 

sugar  1  wineglassful  brandy  or 

rum 

Put  the  ale  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  bring 
almost  to  boiling  point.  In  the  meantime  beat 
up  the  eggs  with  the  sugar,  nutmeg  and  ginger, 
then  add  the  rum  or  brandy.  Pour  on  the  ale 
by  degrees,  beating  the  mixture  up  so  as  to  pre- 

8 


114        The  Something-Different  Dish 

vent  from  curdling;  next  pour  it  backwards  and 
forwards  repeatedly  from  pitcher  to  pitcher, 
raising  the  hand  to  as  great  a  height  as  possible 
which  process  produces  the  smoothness  and  froth- 
ing essential  to  the  good  quality  of  the  flip. 

This  mixture  is  excellent  for  a  cold  and  it  re- 
ceived its  name  from  its  fleecy  appearance. 


PIGS  IN  CLOVER 

yi  lb.  (2  cups)  flour  i  oz.  (2  tablespoonfuls) 

y?.  teaspoonful  salt  butter 

2    teaspoonfuls    baking  Milk  or  water 

powder  Sausage  meat 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  and  sift 
twice.  Rub  in  the  butter  with  the  tips  of  the 
fingers,  and  add  sufficient  milk  or  water  to  bring 
it  to  the  consistency  of  a  soft  dough.  Toss  on  a 
floured  baking  board,  roll  into  a  thin  sheet,  cut 
it  into  small  square  pieces,  and  wrap  each  piece 
around  a  roll  of  sausage  meat.  Bake  and  serve 
very  hot. 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  115 

These  are  extremely  appetizing,  especially  at 
breakfast. 

WET  DEVIL 

1  lb.  cold  cooked  chicken  1    tablespoonful    mush- 

or  lamb  room  catchup 

1     teaspoonful    currant  i>£  tablespoonfuls  Wor- 

jelly  cestershire  sauce 

yi     teaspoonful     made  1   tablespoonful  tomato 

mustard  catchup 

Chop  the  chicken  or  lamb,  mix  it  with  the  cur- 
rant jelly,  mustard,  catchup,  and  Worcestershire 
sauce.    Heat  thoroughly,  and  serve  at  once. 

If  highly  seasoned  foods  are  appreciated  there 
is  no  reason  why  the  dish  known  as  "Wet  Devil" 
should  not  be  regarded  with  high  favor. 


PRAIRIE  OYSTER 

1  raw  yolk  of  egg  1  teaspoonful  vinegar 

1  teaspoonful  Worcester-        Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
shire  sauce 

Pour  the  vinegar  into  a  small  glass,  drop  in  the 


n6        The  Something-Different  Dish 

egg,  then  add  the  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and 
pepper.  The  Prairie  Oyster  should  be  swallowed 
whole. 

TOAD-IN-A-HOLE 

i  lb.  sausages  y^  teaspoonful  salt 

2  eggs  3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

i  pint  (2  cups)  milk  Pepper  to  taste 

Remove  the  skin  from  the  sausages  and  put 
them  into  a  buttered  fireproof  dish.  Mix  the 
flour,  salt,  pepper,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten  and 
the  milk,  beat  for  five  minutes,  and  pour  over 
the  sausages.  Bake  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Serve  hot. 

Another  method.  Blanch  three  pigs'  brains, 
trim  them  and  cut  in  slices.  Arrange  the  slices 
at  the  bottom  of  a  pan  with  two  slices  of  bacon 
cut  in  small  pieces,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
onion,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a 
chopped  pickle,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  one 
cupful  of  stock;    bring  to  boiling  point. 

Mix   one-half   cupful   of   flour   with   one-half 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  117 

teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  add  one  well  beaten 
egg  and  one  cupful  of  milk  or  water.  Beat  for 
three  minutes  and  pour  over  the  brains.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

To  make  a  vegetarian  toad-in-a-hole.  Peel 
and  slice  one  pound  of  potatoes  and  one-half 
pound  of  onions,  fry  both  together  in  one-half 
cupful  of  melted  butter  until  nicely  browned,  and 
turn  them  into  a  well  buttered  fireproof  dish. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  paprika  and 
powdered  sage.  Sprinkle  in  one-half  cupful  of 
finely  chopped  nut  meats. 

Put  two  cupfuls  of  flour  into  a  basin,  add  one 
and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  oatmeal,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  sufficient 
milk  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Pour  over  the 
vegetables,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one 
hour. 

Tomatoes  and  mushrooms  may  be  used  in  the 
same  way. 


n8        The  Something-Different  Dish 

TORPEDOES 

3    ozs.    Qi    cup)    cold  }4  tablespoonful  blanched 

cooked  chopped  chicken  chopped  pistachio  nuts 

2    ozs.     {yi    cup)    cold  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

cooked  chopped  ham  i      teaspoonful     lemon 

i  gill  (}£  cup)  rich  white  juice 

sauce  i  gill  (}4  cup)  whipping 

2  chopped  hard-cooked  cream 

eggs  Parsley 
i    teaspoonful    chopped 

pickled  walnut 

Mix  the  chicken  with  the  ham,  eggs,  white 
sauce,  nuts,  seasonings,  and  whipped  cream. 
Divide  the  mixture  into  small  ramekins  and  dec- 
orate the  top  with  chopped  parsley. 


BLANKS  AND  PRIZES 

yZ  peck  green  peas  i  lb.  bacon 

yi  peck  beans  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Shell  the  peas  and  beans  and  boil  them  sep- 
arately in  boiling  salted  water  till  tender;  cut 
the  bacon  into  dice  and  fry  it;  drain  the  peas  and 
beans  and  place  them  in  a  hot  vegetable  dish, 


> 


Salmagundi "  of    alternate  layers  of    cooked   ham,    eggs 
olives,  parsley  and  dressing 


Hen's-Nest  Eggs"  are  tasty   for  luncheon,  utilizing  cold 

chicken    with    hard-cooked    eggs.       The   whites  are 

used  as  a  garnish 


Bedspreads"   is   the  odd    name   of  a  savory  that  may  be 
made  in  a  chafing  dish        It   is   easily   and    quickly 
made,  then  spread    over    anchovy    toast    and 
served  hot 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  119 

then  add  the  bacon  and  fat,  season  to  taste,  mix 
well  together  and  serve  very  hot. 


SALMAGUNDI 

1  pint  (2  cups)  chopped  Few  sprigs  parsley 

cooked  veal,  ham  or  1  lemon 

chicken  yi  pint  (1  cup)  olive  oil 

4  hard-cooked  eggs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

yi  pint  (1  cup)  chopped  1  teaspoonful  dry  mus- 

olives  or  pickles  tard 

Divide  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  rub  them  through  a  sieve.  Put  a  layer  of  the 
meat  on  a  platter,  then  a  layer  of  whites  of  eggs, 
then  a  layer  of  the  olives,  a  layer  of  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  another  layer  of  meat  and  the  parsley  on 
the  top. 

Beat  up  the  olive  oil  with  the  strained  juice  of 
the  lemon,  season  with  the  salt  and  mustard  and 
serve  with  the  salmagundi. 

Salmagundi  probably  never  appears  on  a  mod- 
ern menu,  although  it  could  describe  a  dish  of 
engaging  qualities.  What  is  salmagundi?  The 
dictionary  says  it  was  originally  a  dish  consisting 


120        The  Something-Different  Dish 

of  chopped  cooked  meat,  eggs,  anchovies,  onions, 
oil,  etc.  And  in  the  second  definition  it  is  set 
forth  that  the  dish  may  be  a  mixture  of  various 
ingredients;  an  olio  or  a  medley;  a  hotch-potch; 
a  miscellany.  Etymologists  derive  the  word  from 
the  Italian  salame,  meaning  "salt  meat,"  and 
conditti,  derived  from  the  Latin  conditus,  meaning 
"seasoned." 

It  is  generally  conceded  that  the  dish  has  an 
Italian  origin,  and  that  is  not  surprising,  for  Italy 
may  be  regarded  as  the  cradle  of  good  cookery. 
France  soon  followed  the  lead  of  Italy  in  culinary 
matters,  and  in  spite  of  the  conservatism  of  Eng- 
lish cooks  many  innovations  were  made  in  their 
cookery.  Thus  "salmagundi"  was  one  of  the 
dishes  adopted  from  France. 

It  seems  to  be  composed  of  ingredients  which 
have  no  gastronomic  affinity,  and  yet  the  dish, 
when  evolved  (by  inspiration,  so  to  speak),  is 
worth  the  approval  of  our  best  diners.  The  dish 
gives  large  scope  for  inventiveness.  Minced 
chicken,  veal  or  other  insipid  meat  may  form  the 
foundation,  while  the  seasonings  or  garnishings 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  121 

may  be  without  number.  In  Smollett's  "Roder- 
ick Random"  we  read:  "The  descendant  of 
Caractacus  returned,  and,  ordering  the  boy  to 
bring  a  piece  of  salt  beef  from  the  brine,  cut  off  a 
slice  and  mixed  it  with  an  equal  quantity  of  onions, 
which,  seasoning  with  a  moderate  proportion  of 
pepper  and  salt,  he  brought  into  a  consistence 
with  oil  and  vinegar;  then,  tasting  the  dish,  as- 
sured us  it  was  the  best  salmagundi  that  he  had 
ever  made." 

One  of  Washington  Irving's  books  goes  by  the 
name  of  "Salmagundi."  The  name  is  appro- 
priate, for  the  subjects  contained  therein  are  as 
varied  as  were  the  ingredients  which  formed  this 
once  popular  dish.  A  salmagundy  (this  mode 
of  spelling  the  word  is  the  consensus  of  the 
majority  of  cookery  book  writers)  was  a  hotch- 
potch of  cold  viands,  such  as  chicken,  veal,  hard- 
cooked  eggs,  herrings,  parsley,  beets,  pickled 
cabbage,  etc.,  arranged  in  appetizing  order. 
According  to  the  old  books  there  was  no  limit 
fixed  to  the  number  of  good  things  which  might 
enter  into  the  composition  of  a  salmagundy,  and 


122        The  Something-Different  Dish 

certainly  there  was  no  limit  to  the  variations  of 
its  orthography.  Some  etymologists  trace  it  to 
Sal  Magundy,  a  lady  in  waiting  on  Mary  Queen 
of  Scots,  who  possessed  an  old-fashioned  appetite 
for  the  dish,  and  who  perhaps,  invented  it;  others 
to  Mary's  habit  of  asking  her  attendant  Gundy 
to  pass  the  salt  when  she  partook  of  the  dish,  and 
desired  "Sel,  ma  Gundy."  Thus  two  methods  of 
spelling  are  possible  according  to  the  etymological 
theory  accepted,  but  Salmagundie,  Solomongon- 
din,  and  Solomongundy  are  but  a  few  of  the  other 
varieties  which  may  be  met  with. 


HEN'S-NEST  EGGS 

6  hard-cooked  eggs  2  tablespoonfuls  melted 

4  tablespoonfuls  chopped  butter 

cooked  chicken  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  Brown  sauce 

parsley 

Cool  the  eggs,  separate  the  whites  from  the 
yolks,  set  the  latter  aside  and  cut  the  former  into 
long,  thin  strips.     Mix  the  chicken  with  the  yolks 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  123 

of  the  eggs;  add  the  butter,  parsley  and  seasonings. 
Shape  into  the  form  of  eggs.  Put  these  into  the 
center  of  a  hot  platter;  arrange  the  whites  around 
them  and  serve  with  a  brown  sauce. 

Hen's-nest  Eggs  are  tasty  for  luncheon,  utiliz- 
ing cold  cooked  chicken  with  hard-cooked  eggs. 
The  whites  are  used  as  a  garnish. 


BEDSPREADS 

6  eggs  4  teaspoonfuls    anchovy 

12  large  oysters  paste 

2    slices     toasted  but-        1%  ozs.  (2^  tablespoon- 

tered  bread  fuls)  butter 
Paprika  to  taste 

Melt  the  butter;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  the 
anchovy  paste  and  the  eggs  lightly  beaten.  Stir 
and  scramble  the  eggs,  and  add  the  oysters  cut 
in  small  pieces;  mix  until  the  latter  have  been 
cooked,  [then  pour  over  the  toasted  bread  which 
has  been  spread  with  the  remainder  of  the  an- 
chovy paste.  Dust  with  paprika,  and  serve  very 
hot. 


124        The  Something-Different  Dish 

ANGELS  ON  HORSEBACK 

6  oysters  6  slices  fat  bacon 

6  rounds  toasted  bread  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

The  oysters  should  be  good  large  ones.  Cut 
the  fat  part  of  the  bacon  very  thinly,  and  about 
one  inch  in  breadth.  Wrap  this  round  each  oys- 
ter, and  fasten  it  with  a  little  wooden  skewer. 
Put  the  oysters  in  the  oven  to  crisp  the  bacon. 
Place  them  on  the  rounds  of  toast.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  decorate  with  parsley. 
Serve  at  once. 

HOPPING  JOHN 

i  lb.  breakfast  bacon  i  pint  (2  cups)  rice 

1  pint  (2  cups)  red  or        Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
cow  peas  Water 

Wash  the  peas  and  soak  them  in  water  over- 
night; when  ready  to  place  on  the  fire  pour  over 
them  a  quart  of  water  and  boil  until  half  done; 
then  add  the  bacon  after  washing  it.  Should  the 
water  boil  away,  add  a  little  warm  water.  Wash 
the  rice,  add  water,  and  allow  to  boil  for  twenty 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  125 

minutes;  then  pour  off  the  water,  leaving  one- 
half  cupful,  remove  the  cover  partly,  allowing  it 
to  steam  until  the  grains  separate.  Take  a  little 
of  the  thick  sauce  from  the  peas,  add  to  the  rice, 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  skim.  In 
serving  put  the  rice  and  peas  first  in  the  dish, 
and  place  the  bacon  on  the  top.  The  bacon  may 
be  sliced  and  served  in  a  small  dish  if  preferred. 
Hopping  John  combines  bacon,  dried  peas  and 
rice  in  a  cheap  and  nourishing  dish. 


DEVILS  ON  HORSEBACK 

12  slices  bacon  Salt,  pepper  and  paprika 

12  soaked  prunes  Toasted  bread  or  fried 

12  almonds  croutons 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bacon,  flatten,  and  trim  each 
neatly.  Stone  the  prunes;  insert  in  each  in  the 
place  of  the  stone  a  blanched  almond  previously 
tossed  in  hot  butter  and  highly  seasoned  with 
paprika,  salt  and  pepper.  Next  roll  each  prune 
in  a  slice  of  bacon,  skewer,  and  grill  over  a  bright 
fire  for  eight  minutes,  turning  frequently.     Serve 


126        The  Something-Different  Dish 

the  rolls  on  silver  skewers  on  neatly  cut  strips  of 
toasted  bread  or  fried  croutons. 

Devils  on  Horseback  are  probably  so  called 
because  they  go  so  fast  after  being  tasted. 


AULD  MAN'S  MILK 

6  eggs  yi  pint  (i  cup)  brandy 

i   quart    (4   cups)   new        1  lemon 
milk  or  cream  6  ozs.  (^4  cup)  sugar 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  eggs,  then  beat  in  the  sugar 
and  add  the  milk  or  cream.  Now  add  the  brandy 
and  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemon.  Beat  up  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  fold  them  into  the 
mixture,  mix  well  together,  and  serve  half  frozen. 


OX  EYES 

Stale  bread 

Butter 

Milk 

Eggs 

Salt  and  pepper 

to  taste 

Cut  some  stale  bread  three-fourths  of  an  inch 
thick,  stamp  into  rounds,  and  out  of  the  middle 


Miscellaneous  Recipes  127 

of  each  round  take  a  smaller  round.  Soak  the 
rounds  in  a  little  milk,  and  then  fry  them  a  golden 
brown  color.  Break  an  egg  into  the  middle  of 
each  ring,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dot 
with  small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  until  the  whites 
are  set,  and  serve  hot. 

Another  method.  Butter  hot  toasted  bread, 
cut  into  neat  rounds,  place  a  layer  of  cottage 
cheese  on  the  top,  adding  cream  to  it  so  that  it 
will  be  moist.  Press  a  small  cooked  beet  in  the 
center  of  each  piece.    Serve  cold. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  487  502  3 


