LAURA  THORNTON 
KNOWLES 


Class 

Book 

Copyright^0. 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


SOUTHERN   RECIPES 
LAURA  THORNTON  KNOWLES 


SOUTHERN 
RECIPES 

TESTED      BY     MYSELF 

By        

LAURA    T.    KNOWLES 

N 


NEW  YORK 
GEORGE  H.  DORAN  COMPANY 


Copyright,  1913 
By  George  H.  Doran  Company 


©GLA358057 


TO  MY  NIECE 
MRS.  JOSEPH  LIONEL  SEL1GMAN 


PREFACE 

To  my  friends  who  have  wanted  to  know 
how  to  prepare  the  dishes  I  gave  them  to 
eat,  these  recipes  will  clearly  unfold  the  mys- 
teries that  seemed  so  deep. 

Laura  Thornton  Knowles. 


CONTENTS 

SOUPS 

PAGE 

Gumbo  File i 

Spinach  Soup 2 

White  Potato  Soup 3 

Black  Bean  Soup 3 

Okra  Gumbo 4 

Crab  Soup 4 

Gopher  Soup 4 

FISH 

Turbot  a  la  Cream 6 

Sauce 7 

Courtbouillon 7 

Fish  Sauce 8 

Escabachio;  Cold 9 

Crab  Jambalaya 9 

Tossed  Up  Codfish 10 

Codfish  Balls       . " 

Curry  of  Oysters n 

Pickled  Oysters 12 

MEATS 

Barbecued  Pig lS 

Brunswick  Stew H 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Beef  Pudding 14 

Bewitched  Veal 15 

Jambalaya 15 

Fricassed  Chicken 16 

Veal  Birds 16 

Mousse  de  Poulet 17 

Sweetbreads  and  Chicken  Mousse    .     .  18 

Fried  Chicken 18 

Chicken  Hash 19 

Chicken  Croquettes 19 

Birds  in  (Chafing  Dish) 20 

Calves  Heart 21 

White  Stew  (Terrapin) 21 

Sweet  Breads 22 

VEGETABLES 

Rice  Crustades 23 

Spanish  Tomatoes 23 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes      .....  24 

Boiled  Rice 24 

Sweet  Potato  Pone 25 

SALADS 

guspachio 26 

Onion  Salad 26 

Frozen  Fruit  Salad 27 

Jellied  Cucumber  Salad 27 

Dutch  Salad 28 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Macaroni 29 

Tomato  and  Celery  Salad 30 

PICKLES 

Cabbage  Pickle 31 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 31 

Green  Tomato  Pickles 32 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickles 33 

Oil  Mangoes 33 

Chutney 34 

BREADS 

Corn  Meal  Muffins 35 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit 35 

Sally  Lunn 36 

Beaten  Biscuit 36 

Waffles 37 

Plain  Wafers 37 

Delicious  Rice  Cakes 37 

Spoon  Bread 38 

Quick  Rolls 3$ 

Swiss  Rolls 39 

Nut  Bread 40 

CAKES 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake  and  Filling     .     .41 

Sponge  Cake  Roll  and  Filling      ...  42 

Crullers 42 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Cup  Cake 43 

White  Fruit  Cake 43 

Icing  with  Nuts  for  Crackers      ...  44 

Strawberry  Shortcake 44 

Cookies 44 

Chocolate  Pie 45 

Chocolate  Cake 45 

Mocha  Cake 46 

DESSERTS 

Lemon  Sponge 47 

Pink  Pudding 47 

Snow  Pudding 48 

Pudding 48 

Creole  Kisses 49 

Sultana  Roll 49 

Cafe  Parfait 50 

Bavarian  Cream 50 

Venetian  Pudding 51 

Orange  Cream 51 

Macaroon  Pudding 52 

Marshmallow  Souffle 53 

Nutted  Cream 53 

Maple  Mousse 54 

Charlotte  Russe 54 

Macaroon  Ice  Cream 55 

Charlotte  Russe  Pudding 55 

Brown  Sugar  Trifle       .     .     .     .     .     .56 


CONTENTS 
MISCELLANEOUS 

PAGE 

hollandaise  sauce 57 

Egg  Timbales  in  Pimento  Cases  .     .     .57 

Egg-Nog 58 

Peach  Blow 59 

For  Afternoon  Tea 59 

A  Nice  Cheese  Dish 59 

Mint  Julep 60 

Yeast 60 


SOUTHERN    RECIPES 


SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

SOUPS 

GUMBO  FILft 

Let  me  tell  you  what  file  is:  A  powder 
made  by  drying  sassafras  and  bay  leaves, 
then  grinding  to  a  powder. 

One  large  chicken,  or  two  pounds  of  bris- 
ket, one  tablespoonful  of  lard  (kitchen 
spoon),  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  sifted, 
one  onion  chopped  fine,  also  some  parsley 
and  thyme  chopped  fine,  two  quarts  of  oyster 
liquor,  heated,  two  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  one  can  of  tomatoes 
(pint) ,  one  hundred  oysters.  Cut  up  chicken 
as  for  frying,  put  lard  in  kettle,  which  has 
become  hot.  When  lard  is  melted  and  hot 
add  flour  and  cook  till  brown,  stirring  con- 
stantly to  keep  from  burning.  Then  brown 
the  chopped  onion  in  this  flour  and  lard. 


2  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

Now  put  in  your  meat,  and  stir  it  for  twenty 
minutes.  In  this  roux  add  water  gradually, 
and  when  all  is  added,  put  in  the  pint  can  of 
tomatoes,  also  parsley  and  thyme;  set  the 
kettle  back  on  the  stove  to  cook  slowly  for 
three  hours.  A  half  hour  before  serving 
put  in  your  oysters,  let  them  cook  only  half 
an  hour,  then  take  kettle  off  the  fire,  and  put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  file  in,  stirring  all  the 
time.  This  thickens  gumbo.  Pour  at  once 
into  hot  tureen  and  serve.  This  should  be 
served  with  boiled  rice. 

SPINACH  SOUP 

Half  a  peck  of  spinach,  one  quart  of 
stock,  one  pint  of  milk,  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  three  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  salt,  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Wash  spinach,  simmer  half  an 
hour  in  covered  stewpan,  without  water, 
chop  fine,  pound  to  a  paste;  put  butter  and 
flour  in  stewpan,  stir  until  smooth  and  frothy, 
then  add  spinach,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  and 
stir  ten  minutes;  gradually  add  stock,  and 
when  the  mixture  begins  to  boil  add  hot  milk 


SOUPS  3 

and  cream,  boil  up  once,  rub  through  a  fine 
sieve,  return  to  fire.  Serve  when  hot.  A 
little  onion  improves  it. 

WHITE  POTATO  SOUP 

One  quart  milk,  six  large  potatoes,  one 
stalk  celery,  one  onion,  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Put  milk  to  boil  with  onion 
and  celery.  Pare  potatoes  and  boil  thirty 
minutes,  mash  fine  and  light,  add  boiling  milk 
and  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  to  taste.  Rub 
through  a  strainer  and  serve  immediately. 
One  tablespoonful  whipped  cream  added  im- 
proves it. 

BLACK  BEAN"  SOUP 

Beef,  chicken  (any  bones  except  duck), 
put  with  them  one  quart  of  black  beans  into 
cold  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves 
(whole),  three-fourths  of  a  tablespoonful  of 
allspice,  (no  vegetables).  Cook  all  day, 
stirring  occasionally,  so  the  beans  will  not 
burn;  strain,  add  good  glass  of  wine,  hard 
boiled  egg,  and  slice  lemon.  Pepper  and 
salt. 


4  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

OKRA  GUMBO 

Make  roux  of  lard,  flour  and  onion,  as  for 
gumbo  file,  also  cook  chicken  in  this,  then  add 
two  quarts  of  okra  cut  up  fine.  Cover  pot 
and  let  it  simmer  a  little  while,  then  pour  in 
about  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  if  needed. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fresh 
corn  is  very  good  in  this.     Serve  with  rice. 

CRAB  SOUP 

A  heaping  dessertspoonful  of  flour,  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  butter,  one  quart  of 
milk,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  spices,  and  a 
wineglass  of  sherry.  Put  flour  and  butter  in 
one  pot;  milk  with  spices  (tied  up  in  cloth) 
in  another  pot;  when  the  milk  boils,  add  it 
slowly  to  the  flour  and  butter,  then  add  crab 
meat,  and  sherry  when  you  pour  into  tureen. 

GOPHER  SOUP 

Gopher  is  a  dry  land  turtle. 

Make  roux  of  flour  and  lard  and  onion, 
then  put  in  gopher,  cook  a  few  minutes  in 
roux,   then  pour  in   two   quarts   of  boiling 


SOUPS  5 

water,  a  can  of  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Tie  in  a  thin  piece  of  cloth  some 
whole  spice  and  cloves,  put  this  in,  cook  all 
slowly  for  two  hours,  then  put  in  a  tumbler 
of  claret,  and  a  lemon  sliced,  as  you  remove 
soup  from  fire. 


FISH 

TURBOT  2  LA  CR&ME 

Boil  your  fish  (red  snapper  if  turbot  can- 
not be  had)  in  strong  salt  water,  remove 
bones  and  flake  it  in  as  large  pieces  as  possi- 
ble. Boil  one  quart  of  sweet  cream,  into 
which  put  a  small  onion  (whole),  a  bunch 
of  parsley;  then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  smoothly  mixed  in  a  little  milk,  stir 
until  cream  begins  to  thicken  and  is  smooth. 
(It  will  take  about  five  or  eight  minutes.) 
Remove  onion  and  parsley  and  pour  into  the 
mixture  quarter  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter. 
Butter  a  deep  baking  dish ;  put  in  first  a  layer 
of  fish,  then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese  (stale 
Edam  is  very  fine),  then  a  layer  of  cream 
mixture,  and  so  on  until  dish  is  filled;  sift 
over  the  top  a  layer  of  stale  grated  bread 
crumbs  or  cracker  crumbs  and  cheese.  Bake 
from  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  one  hour 

6 


FISH  7 

according  to  oven;  must  not  get  too  dry;  gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  serve  with  the  follow- 
ing sauce: 

SAUCE 

Put  in  saucepan  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
two  dessertspoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  a  pinch 
of  salt;  whip  the  mixture  well  and  when  it 
forms  a  sort  of  cream  add  four  dessert- 
spoonfuls of  olive  oil,  small  teaspoonful  of 
mixed  mustard,  a  pinch  of  finely  minced 
parsley,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  a  lemon 
which  has  been  very  delicately  sliced.  Let 
this  mixture  come  to  a  boil,  and  when  it  has 
boiled  two  minutes  remove  from  the  fire  and 
serve  hot  with  the  fish.  If  sauce  should  get 
too  stiff,  it  can  be  thinned  by  adding  a  little 
vinegar. 

COURTBOUILLON 

Three  pounds  of  red  snapper  or  red  fish, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  one  large  onion,  six  fresh  to- 
matoes or  a  pint  of  canned  tomatoes,  four 
sprigs  of  parsley,  one  clove  of  garlic,  six  or 


8  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

eight  large  fresh  potatoes  sliced  thin,  table- 
spoonful  of  allspice  well  mashed,  juice  of 
one  lemon,  a  tumbler  of  claret;  salt  and  cay- 
enne pepper  to  taste;  one  quart  of  water. 
Cut  the  fish  as  for  frying,  put  lard  in  deep 
kettle,  and  when  hot  add  gradually  the  flour, 
constantly  stirring  to  prevent  burning. 
Then  put  in  onion  and  garlic  (which  has 
been  chopped  fine),  also  parsley  chopped, 
mashed  allspice.  Add  the  tomatoes  chopped 
fine,  also  the  potatoes,  sliced  thin,  the  glass 
of  claret  and  the  quart  of  water;  let  it  boil 
well,  and  then  add  the  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per to  taste  and  when  it  has  boiled  five  or 
ten  minutes,  add  the  fish,  putting  in  one  piece 
at  a  time;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  let 
all  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

FISH  SAUCE 

The  fish  may  be  either  broiled  or  boiled, 
the  latter  is  best  if  red  snapper  is  used. 

Ingredients:  Tomatoes,  garlic,  Worces- 
ter sauce,  beef  extract,  black  pepper,  salt. 

The  tomatoes  are  stewed  with  a  small 
piece  of  garlic  in  them  for  about  two  hours, 


FISH  9 

and  then  strained  through  a  cloth,  and  re- 
turned to  the  pot  to  be  thickened  with  corn 
starch  to  a  proper  consistency.  The  Wor- 
cester sauce,  beef  extract,  pepper  and  salt 
must  be  put  into  the  tomatoes  after  being 
strained;  half  a  teacup  of  beef  extract,  of 
course  diluted,  using  only  a  dessertspoonful 
of  beef  to  half  a  cup  of  water,  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  Worcester  sauce,  two  cans 
of  mushrooms  are  stewed,  separately,  sea- 
soned with  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  and  put 
around  the  fish;  the  sauce  is  then  poured  over 
it. 

ESCABACHIO,  COLD 

Ingredients: — Fried  fish,  cold,  onions, 
vinegar,  allspice  and  cloves.  The  vinegar 
is  boiled  with  cloves  and  allspice  in  it.  Put 
fish  in  dish  with  thin  sliced  onions  on  it,  then 
pour  the  boiling  vinegar  and  spices  over  this. 
Cover  tightly,  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

CRAB  J  A  MB  A  LAY  A 

One  dozen  crabs,  boiled  and  cut  up,  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  rice,  three  tomatoes,  or  a 


io         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

half  pint  of  canned  tomatoes,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  onion,  chopped,  one  clove  of  garlic 
(minced  fine),  two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Put  butter 
in  pan  and  when  hot,  add  onion  and  brown; 
then  add  flour  and  stir  well,  then  add  garlic; 
cook  all  a  few  minutes,  but  do  not  let  burn 
or  brown  too  much;  add  the  tomatoes 
(which  have  been  chopped  fine),  let  all 
brown  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes.  When 
cooked  add  three  quarts  of  boiling  water 
(stock  is  better),  then  the  crabs.  Let  this 
boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  one  and  a  half 
cups  of  rice  which  has  been  well  washed  in 
cold  water.  Mix  well  together,  and  let  boil 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  stirring  very 
little. 

TOSSED  UP  CODFISH 

Pick  to  pieces  cold  boiled  codfish  or  use 
the  desiccated  which  is  already  prepared. 
Prepare  half  a  pint  of  thin  cream  and  butter, 
to  which  add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  three  hard 
boiled  eggs  cut  up  fine,  a  tablespoonful  of 


FISH  ii 

butter,  a  few  grains  of  red  pepper  and  some 
chopped  parsley.  Heat  this  till  nearly  boil- 
ing, then  throw  in  the  fish  and  boil  up  once. 

i 

CODFISH  BALLS 

One  pint  of  boneless  codfish  soaked  over 
night,  one  quart  of  Irish  potatoes;  put  Irish 
potatoes  in  a  saucepan,  after  peeling,  and 
the  codfish  on  top  of  them,  and  enough  water 
to  cover  all.  Boil  a  half  hour,  drain  off 
water,  and  mash  fish  and  potatoes  together, 
until  light,  then  whip  well  together  two  eggs ; 
no  salt,  as  fish  is  salt  enough,  but  season  with 
pepper.  Mix  with  fish  and  potatoes,  make 
into  balls,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  lard. 

CURRY  OF  OYSTERS 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice,  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  curry  powder,  one- 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  oyster  liquor,  one-quar- 
ter pint  of  milk,  one  small  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  solid  pint  of  oysters.  Put  the  but- 
ter and  onion  juice  in  a  saucepan,  when 
melted  add  the  flour  and  curry  powder  and 


12        SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

stir  until  smooth  and  bubbling,  then  add  the 
oyster  liquor  and  milk,  also  the  salt.  When 
the  sauce  is  smooth  and  boils,  put  in  the  oys- 
ters and  cook  until  they  plump  and  the  edges 
curl. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS 

Get  nice  plump  oysters,  strain  them  in  a 
colander  to  get  the  liquor.  Take  some  of 
the  liquor  to  wash  the  oysters  in,  then  plump 
them  in  their  own  liquor,  adding  some  salt. 
(Plumping  means  scalding.)  Next,  take 
the  liquor,  and  if  your  vinegar  is  strong  mix 
it  with  it,  half  and  half;  if  not  strong,  use 
more  vinegar  than  liquor;  in  this  put  cloves, 
allspice  and  a  pod  or  two  of  red  pepper, 
scald  it  and  pour  over  your  oysters,  set  them 
aside  to  cool  and  they  are  ready  for  use. 

Two  gallons  of  opened  oysters  is  about 
what  we  make  at  a  time  —  use  your  own 
judgment  about  the  quantity  of  cloves  and 
allspice,  you  know  they  are  strong.  Keep 
them  covered  in  a  large  tureen  or  stone  jar 
for  use 


MEATS 

BARBECUED  PIG 

A  pit  two  and  a  half  feet  deep  by  three 
feet  long,  and  two  feet  wide,  sticks  of  green 
wood,  or,  better  still,  iron  rods,  to  fit  across 
the  pit.  Build  a  large  wood  fire,  and  when  it 
burns  down  to  ashes,  put  on  plenty  of  char- 
coal, as  the  fire  is  kept  up  by  this. 

Split  pig  down  the  front,  then  rub  well 
with  salt  and  red  pepper,  cut  slashes  in  the 
skin,  so  that  the  seasoning  will  get  through, 
put  pig  over  pit  with  skin  side  down.  Into 
a  pot  put  one  quart  of  vinegar  to  boil,  add 
one  pound  of  butter,  some  Worcester  sauce, 
tomato  catsup,  French  mustard,  and  English 
mustard  mixed,  chowchow  mustard,  a  few 
drops  of  tobasco  and  some  salt,  all  of  these 
I  put  to  taste.  Have  a  stick,  with  a  mop 
made  of  cheese-cloth,  and  with  this  keep  the 
pig  well  mopped  all  the  time  it  is  cooking, 
13 


i4         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

which  ought  to  be  from  six  to  eight  hours. 
The  slower  it  cooks  the  better.  Have 
plenty  of  the  sauce  to  serve  with  meat. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW 

One  large  chicken,  one  quart  of  corn  from 
cob,  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  fresh,  one  quart 
of  lima  beans,  one  quart  of  okra,  four  green 
peppers  (sweet  peppers),  salt,  pepper,  and 
Worcester  sauce  to  taste,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter.  Cut  up  chicken,  as  for 
frying,  put  in  soup  kettle  and  pour  over  three 
quarts  of  cold  water.  Let  this  come  to  a 
hard  boil,  then  add  vegetables  and  season- 
ing. Put  kettle  back  on  fire,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer and  cook  slowly  for  three  hours.  If 
canned  vegetables  are  used,  they  need  not  be 
put  in  until  the  last  hour  of  cooking.  Put 
butter  in  a  half  hour  before  done. 

BEEF  PUDDING 

One  quart  of  cold  beef  chopped  very  fine, 
one  quart  of  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and 
creamed,  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs.  Put 
these  in  alternate  layers,  each  layer  seasoned 


MEATS  15 

with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  also  a  little 
chopped  onion  if  you  like.  Let  a  layer  of 
potatoes  be  the  last,  and  just  before  you  put 
it  in,  beat  up  four  eggs  and  pour  them  in, 
then  bake. 

BEWITCHED  VEAL 

Three  pounds  of  lean  veal,  half  a  pound 
of  fat  salt  pork,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one 
small  onion,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little 
red  pepper  and  salt,  chop  fine,  mix  together 
with  three  eggs  well  beaten  and  a  teacup  of 
milk;  form  into  a  small  loaf  pressing  it  very 
firmly,  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  bake 
two  and  a  half  hours.     Eaten  cold. 

JU MB  AY  ALA 

Cut  up  one  ten-cent  veal  steak,  raw,  one 
ten-cent  piece  of  ham  raw,  and  ten  cents' 
worth  of  shrimp,  one  and  a  half  dozen  oys- 
ters, chicken  scraps  also  added,  in  small  uni- 
form pieces,  casting  aside  all  skin  and  bones. 
Fry  veal,  ham  and  shrimp  brown  in  hot  lard, 
then  add  by  degrees  one  scant  cup  of  boiling 
water;  now  add  the  oysters,  pepper  and  salt, 


i6         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

seasoned  slightly,  and  lastly,  after  stew  has 
cooked  thoroughly,  sprinkle  in  one  cup  full 
of  rice  with  the  hand.  Cook  well,  and  stir 
as  little  as  possible  after  putting  in  the  rice, 
boil  for  about  twenty  minutes. 

FRICASEED  CHICKEN 

Cut  up  two  chickens,  trimming  off  all  the 
fat;  put  them  in  just  enough  water  to  cover 
them  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  boil  slowly 
until  tender  and  remove  from  gravy,  into 
which  stir  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  little  nutmeg, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  and  one  cup  of 
cream.  Let  it  just  come  to  a  boil  and  pour 
over  the  chicken. 

VEAL  BIRDS 

Get  the  best  cutlets,  cut  as  thin  as  paper 
in  pieces  about  two  by  three  inches  or  two  by 
four  inches,  avoiding  any  stringy  parts. 
The  scraps  of  the  veal  for  forcemeat  as  fol- 
lows: Grind  veal,  also  grind  a  piece  of  salt 
pork  two  inches  square,  a  large  piece  of 
bread,  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  a 


MEATS  17 

suspicion  of  onion,  parsley,  mix  all,  spread 
on  large  pieces  of  veal  and  then  cut  mush- 
rooms on  top  and  roll  up  ( fasten  with  tooth- 
picks) .  Roll  these  birds  in  flour  and  fry  in 
butter;  when  brown  pour  over  the  cream 
enough  to  cover  and  stew  fifteen  minutes, 
also  add  remainder  of  the  can  of  mushrooms 
when  stewing.     Serve  on  fancy  shaped  toast. 

MOUSSE  DE  POULET 

Scald  one  cup  of  well  reduced,  highly  sea- 
soned stock,  beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
slightly,  add  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  each 
of  common  salt,  and  celery  salt,  a  dash  of 
paprika  and  cook  until  the  mixture  coats  the 
spoon  as  a  boiled  custard.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  granu- 
lated gelatine  softened  in  one-fourth  of  a 
cup  of  the  chicken  stock.  Strain  over  four 
ounces  of  cooked  white  meat  of  a  chicken 
chopped  and  pounded  in  a  mortar  and  passed 
through  a  sieve.  Stir  over  ice  water  until 
the  mixture  is  perfectly  smooth  and  begins  to 
set,  then  fold  into  it  one  cup  of  whipped 
cream.     Turn  into  a  ring  mold  until  chilled 


18         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

and  well  set,  turn  on  a  bed  of  lettuce,  and  fill 
in  the  center  with  equal  parts  of  celery  and 
English  walnuts  blanched,  sliced  and  well 
mixed  with  French  dressing. 

SWEETBREADS  AND  CHICKEN  MOUSSE 

Parboil  sweetbreads  one  half  pound,  chop 
and  rub  through  a  sieve  (there  should  be 
one  cup  full),  mix  with  one-half  cup  of 
cooked  or  raw  chicken,  rub  through  sieve. 
Add  gradually  white  of  one  egg,  and  work 
until  smooth,  then  add  three-quarters  of  a  cup 
of  heavy  cream.  Line  a  buttered  mold  with 
mixture,  and  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water, 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  bake  until 
firm.     Serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Fish  made  the  same  way,  served  with 
creamed  oysters.  Ham  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  filled  in  with  spinach. 

FRIED  CHICKEN 

Cut  chicken  up,  sift  a  little  flour  over  it, 
salt  and  pepper.  Have  lard  boiling  in  fry- 
ing pan,  drop  chicken  into  this,  fry  until  well 
browned  and  cooked  through,  from  fifteen  to 


MEATS  19 

twenty  minutes,  according  to  size  of  the 
chicken.  Pour  off  the  top  of  the  lard  after 
all  the  chicken  is  fried  leaving  in  the  pan  any 
gravy  of  the  chicken  that  might  remain. 
Put  in  cup  of  cream  or  milk  with  butter  and 
flour  enough  to  thicken  a  little.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.     Serve  with  chicken. 

CHICKEN  HASH 

Boil  a  young  chicken  as  you  would  to  make 
a  salad,  and  when  done,  cut  up.  Take  some 
mashed  Irish  potatoes,  line  a  small  baking 
dish,  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown.  To  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  flour  enough  to  thicken.  Add 
some  chopped  parsley  and  onions,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  then  put  into  this  sauce  the 
chicken,  mixing  thoroughly.  Pour  into  dish 
of  brown  potatoes  and  serve  at  once.  Do 
not  put  in  the  oven  after  the  hash  is  put  in 
this  dish. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

Mince  chicken  as  fine  as  possible  and  sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg;  one  small 


/ 


20        SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

onion  chopped  very  fine,  one  set  of  brains, 
one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  tumbler  of  milk, 
mix  and  boil.  Stir  this  in  the  meat  adding 
a  little  chopped  parsley;  put  on  ice.  When 
cold  take  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture,  shape, 
roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  put  on  ice  for  half 
an  hour.  Then  roll  in  yolk  of  egg  and 
bread  crumbs  again  and  put  by  till  ready  to 

fry. 

BIRDS  (IN  CHAFING  DISH) 

Split  birds  open  as  for  broiling  and  to  one 
dozen  sprinkle  half  a  dozen  small  red  pep- 
pers cut  fine  with  scissors.  Place  in  dish, 
breast  down,  with  salt  to  taste.  On  each 
bird  place  one  inch  square  of  butter,  then 
pour  in  half  a  teacup  of  broth  (or  hot 
water),  cover  and  steam  until  butter  is 
melted,  then  add  the  following  preparation: 
Put  in  a  tumbler  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  fill 
tumbler  with  port  wine.  After  cooking  for 
half  an  hour,  add  two  cans  of  small  mush- 
rooms.    If  birds  are  young,  about  two  hours' 


MEATS  21 

time  will  be  required  to  cook  them.  When 
thoroughly  cooked  and  just  before  serving, 
add  one  teacup  of  cream  thickened  with  flour. 

CALVES'  HEARTS 
Take  two  calves'  hearts,  wash  them  well, 
put  them  to  soak  for  twenty-four  hours,  well 
covered  with  one  part  vinegar  and  two  parts 
water,  with  a  light  sprinkle  of  salt.     When 
ready  to  cook,  wash  them  again  and  fill  the 
cells  with  grated  bread  crumbs  and  minced 
bacon  seasoned  with  a  little  onion  juice,  pap- 
rika and  salt.     Lay  strips  of  bacon  on  the 
hearts   and   bake    until    done.     Serve   with 
brown  gravy. 

WHITE  STEW  (TERRAPIW 
Beat  to  a  smooth  paste  the  yolks  of  six 
hard-boiled  eggs  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cream 
and  two  wine  glasses  of  wine,  the  peel  of  one 
lemon,  a  little  nutmeg,  salt,  cayenne  pepper 
to  taste.  The  terrapin  must  be  prepared 
as  for  soup  and  thoroughly  drained;  cook  in 
a  chafing  dish,  pouring  the  dressing  over  the 


22        SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

meat     Let  it  only  come  to  a  boil,  but  stir 
continuously  to  prevent  scorching. 

SWEETBREADS 

Soak  them  in  salt  water  for  about  an  hour, 
then  parboil  until  tender,  take  out  the  stringy 
parts,  put  them  in  water  for  a  few  moments, 
dry  them  in  a  towel,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs 
and  fry  brown  in  butter.  When  they  are 
done,  put  on  a  dish,  pour  into  a  frying  pan 
a  large  cup  of  sweet  cream,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  a  little  green  parsley  chopped  fine, 
dust  in  a  very  little  flour;  when  it  boils  up 
pour  it  over  the  breads  and  send  to  the  table 
hot. 


VEGETABLES 

RICE  CRUSTADES 

Two  small  teacups  of  rice  boiled  with 
plenty  of  salt;  when  soft  add  a  can  of  toma- 
toes (or  a  quart  of  fresh  tomatoes  stewed), 
a  good  sized  onion,  parsley,  two  bay  leaves 
and  pepper;  cook  this  in  a  double  boiler  for 
two  hours  until  very  stiff;  mold  in  cups. 
When  ready  to  use,  turn  out  of  cups,  roll  in 
egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat; 
when  hot,  take  out  the  center  to  form  a  pate 
case  and  fill  with  creamed  sweetbread  and 
mushrooms. 

SPANISH  TOMATOES 

Cut  up  three  large  white  onions,  three  bell 
peppers,  and  one  ripe  tomato.  Melt  a 
spoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  fry 
some  of  the  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions, 
adding  salt  and  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  sugar. 
23 


24         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

Turn  in  a  baking  dish,  add  another  spoonful 
of  butter  to  pan,  fry  as  before  until  all  are 
done  and  in  baking  dish.  Cover  top  layer 
with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  slowly. 

It  is  a  rich  dish,  keeps  nicely  in  ice  box  and 
is  good  cold  for  breakfast  with  hominy. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil  potatoes,  then  slice  lengthwise,  put  in 
baking  dish,  adding  butter,  sugar  and  nutmeg 
(grated)  to  each  layer  of  potatoes.  Then 
pour  over  all  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Bake 
in  oven  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

BOILED  RICE 

Rice  should  be  well  washed  before  boiling, 
in  at  least  three  waters.  Put  a  quart  of 
water  on  fire  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  it 
and  let  it  boil  well,  then  add  the  rice.  Stir 
occasionally,  and  with  a  wooden  spoon.  The 
boiling  water  tosses  the  grains  of  rice,  and 
prevents  them  from  sticking  together.  As 
soon  as  the  grains  begin  to  soften,  do  not 
by  any  circumstances  stir  or  touch  the  rice 
again.     Let  it  boil  rapidly  for  twenty  min- 


VEGETABLES  25 

utes,  or  until  the  grains  swell  out,  and  it  ap-, 
pears  to  thicken.  When  it  has  reached  this 
stage  take  off  the  cover,  and  pour  off  the 
water.  Set  pot  in  oven  for  a  few  minutes, 
do  not  let  it  brown,  but  simply  dry  out  the 
water. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE 

Six  or  eight  potatoes  (according  to  size), 
two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sugar  (brown),  half 
a  cup  of  syrup,  a  little  orange  peel,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Wash  and  grate, 
without  peeling,  the  potatoes.  Beat  sugar 
and  eggs  together,  mix  syrup  with  potatoes, 
then  sugar  and  eggs  and  orange  peel  and  cin- 
namon.    Put  all  in  a  dish  and  bake. 


SALADS 

GVSPACHIO 

Ingredients  —  Hardtack,  tomatoes,  cucum- 
bers, sweet  peppers  (bell  peppers),  may- 
onnaise dressing.  Soak  the  hardtack  in 
water  until  soft  enough  to  split;  while  this  is 
soaking,  peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes  and  cu- 
cumbers and  cut  the  peppers  in  small  pieces. 
Make  mayonnaise  thick,  as  all  the  vegetables 
are  so  watery.  Put  first  a  layer  of  hardtack, 
then  the  mayonnaise,  tomatoes,  then  dress- 
ing, cucumbers  and  peppers,  and  more  dress- 
ing. Fill  the  bowl  in  this  way.  This  dish 
is  much  better  kept  for  twenty-four  hours. 

ONION  SALAD 

Two  or  three  large  Spanish  onions  sliced 

thin,  pour  boiling  water  over  them,   drain, 

put  on  cold  water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

stand  half  an  hour,  repeat  four  or  five  times. 

26 


SALADS  27 

Then  stand  in  cold  water  and  salt  until  ready 
to  serve.  French  dressing.  For  a  noon 
dinner  prepare  the  night  before. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

Six  large  oranges,  four  bananas,  six  ap- 
ples, one  pound  of  Malaga  grapes,  one  tea- 
cup of  Maraschino  cherries,  one-half  a  tea- 
cup of  ground  nuts  (almonds,  walnuts  and 
pecans).  Quarter  the  oranges,  take  out  all 
seeds  and  inside  skins,  cut  in  cubes  one-half 
inch  over  the  bowl  which  catches  the  juice, 
half  and  seed  Malaga  grapes,  cut  the  bananas 
lengthwise  in  small  pieces,  halve  the  cherries, 
cut  apples  in  cubes,  mix  all  thoroughly  and 
pack  in  freezer  for  five  hours.  Serve  with 
French  dressing  which  must  be  thoroughly 
chilled  and  well  beaten.  Add  half  a  teacup 
of  ground  nuts.  Serve  the  salad  whole  on 
a  bed  of  lettuce  and  use  French  dressing  at 
the  table. 

JELLIED  CUCUMBER  SALAD 

Into  a  granite  saucepan,  put  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  peppercorns,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 


28         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

one  small  blade  of  mace,  half  of  a  bayleaf ; 
add  three  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  cover  and 
let  steep  for  fifteen  minutes;  add  one  box  of 
gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  one  cupful 
of  cold  water  until  soft  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved, strain;  add  one  cupful  of  strong  tar- 
ragon vinegar  and  color  pretty  green  with 
color  paste.  Put  two  dozen  small  timbale 
molds  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  pour  in 
enough  jelly  to  cover  the  bottom  a  quarter 
of  an  inch.  Set  away  until  firm,  then  in  the 
bottom  of  each  mold  put  a  round  thin  slice 
of  cucumber  and  arrange  strips  around  the 
sides.  Fill  the  centers  with  tiny  cucumber 
dice  and  carefully  pour  in  sufficient  liquid 
jelly  to  fill  the  molds  even  full.  Put  away 
until  firm,  then  put  in  lettuce  leaves  and  garn- 
ish with  mayonnaise. 

DUTCH  SALAD 

Make  the  dressing  by  taking  the  yolks  of 
hard  boiled  eggs  rubbed  smooth  with  olive 
oil,  then  put  in  some  fresh  mustard  which  has 
been  mixed  with  a  little  water  (chowchow 
mustard)   French  mustard,  vinegar  to  taste, 


SALADS  29 

also  red  pepper  and  salt,  Worcester  sauce, 
a  little  onion  juice.  Mix  this  with  all  the 
cold  cooked  vegetables  you  have  — Irish 
potatoes,  peas,  beans,  carrots,  beets,  cauli- 
flower; then  the  uncooked  vegetables,  toma- 
toes, cucumbers,  green  peppers,  cabbage  and 
celery.  Of  course  the  more  vegetables  you 
have  the  more  dressing  you  will  need. 

MACARONI 

Get  a  fine  piece  of  roast  (if  for  two  or 
three  persons  only,  say  fifteen  cents'  worth), 
put  it  in  a  saucepan  adding  half  an  onion 
and  one  or  two  pieces  of  garlic,  also  a  small 
piece  of  beef  fat;  let  all  these  cook  together 
until  the  meat  is  a  fine  brown  color,  then  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  tomato  paste  dissolved 
in  tepid  water  and  let  this  cook,  adding  a 
little  water  gradually  until  you  see  that  the 
gravy  is  suitable  to  put  on  macaroni.      (Don't 
cook    your    macaroni    too    much.)     When 
properly  cooked  take  out  of  the  pot,  drain, 
then  put  first  some  of  the  gravy  in  serving 
dish,  then  macaroni,  then  grated  cheese,  then 
gravy  and  so  on. 


3o         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

TOMATO  AND  CELERY  SALAD 

Cut  up  tomatoes  in  small  pieces,  not  sliced, 
also  celery  in  small  pieces.  Have  mayon- 
naise thick.  To  two  tablespoonfuls  of  may- 
onnaise, put  three  of  gelatine  dissolved  first 
in  cold  water  (just  enough  to  cover),  then 
boiling  water;  mix  all  together,  vegetables, 
mayonnaise  and  gelatine,  stirring  thoroughly 
until  well  mixed;  put  in  a  mold  and  set  in 
icebox  to  congeal. 


PICKLES 


CABBAGE  PICKLE 


One  gallon  vinegar,  one  pint  sugar,  one 
pint  salt,  one  ounce  turmeric,  one  ounce  celery 
seed,  one  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  ginger, 
grated  horseradish,  a  half-pound  box  of  mus- 
tard, one  ounce  allspice,  one  dozen  onions, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mustard  seed.  Let 
cabbage  stand  in  strong  salt  and  water  over 
night;  mix  mustard  and  turmeric  with  vinegar 
before  putting  in ;  mix  all  together,  stir  every- 
day and  in  two  weeks  it  is  ready  for  use. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Take  three  parts  cabbage  to  one  part  sweet 
peppers,  about  one  dozen  onions  to  two  gal- 
lons of  the  above;  cut  all  fine  and  sprinkle 
well  with  salt;  let  stand  twenty- four  hours, 
then  press  out  brine  through  a  sieve.  To 
one  gallon  of  the  mixture  add  two  table- 
31 


32         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

spoonfuls  of  ground  allspice,  nutmeg  and 
mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  half  a  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  white  mus- 
tard seed,  black  and  red  pepper  to  taste;  mix 
half  a  cup  of  mustard  with  the  best  olive  oil, 
add  spices  to  the  oil  and  mustard  before  mix- 
ing with  the  vegetables,  also  add  one  or  two 
papers  of  celery  seed  and  a  good  tablespoon- 
ful of  turmeric  (sometimes  more  or  less,  ac- 
cording to  taste) .  Cut  peppers  to  be  stuffed, 
taking  out  the  seed,  putting  in  strong  brine 
over  night.  Stuff  with  ingredients,  after 
dripping  them  carefully,  tie  and  pack  as 
closely  as  possible  in  jars  and  cover  well  with 
cold  vinegar. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 

Two  gallons  of  sliced  green  tomatoes, 
Rve  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  seed,  beat  fine, 
three  gills  of  mustard  seed,  put  in  whole,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  ground  pepper,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  allspice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cloves,  one  gill  of  salt,  one  and  a  half  gills 
of  chopped  onions,  two  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  two  and  one  half  gallons  of  vinegar. 


PICKLES  33 

Boil  until  the  tomatoes  are  tender;  when  cold, 
put  in  jars  and  seal. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLE 
Put  the  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  until 
skin  will  peel  off,   after  peeling  these,  put 
them  in  a  jar  (stone)   with  a  layer  of  salt 
alternating  each  layer  (tomatoes,  then  salt) 
until  you  have  as  many  prepared  as  you  wish 
to  pickle ;  let  them  stand  all  night,  then  drain 
off  the  salt  water,  have  ready  your  vinegar 
boiling  hot  with  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves 
in  it  to  taste.     Pour  this  over  the  tomatoes 
boiling  hot,  let  stand  until  next  morning,  then 
pour  it  off  into  your  kettle  and  let  it  boil 
again.     Pour  over  tomatoes,  repeat  this  two 
or  three  mornings,  then  your  pickles  will  be 
done. 

OIL  MANGOES 

One  pound  of  race  ginger  washed  and 
dried,  one  pound  of  horseradish,  one  pound 
of  black  mustard  seed,  one  pound  of  white 
mustard  seed,  half  pound  of  garlic,  one  ounce 
of  turmeric,  two  ounces  of  cloves,  one  ounce 


34         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

of  mace.  These  ingredients  to  be  beaten 
and  mixed  with  a  pint  of  new  made  mustard 
and  as  much  olive  oil  as  will  make  it  to  a 
paste,  then  fill  the  mangoes  and  pour  over 
them  as  much  boiling  vinegar  as  will  cover 
them.  Let  them  stand  three  weeks,  then 
pour  off  this  vinegar  and  then  put  on  fresh 
boiling  vinegar  same  quantity  in  which  put 
the  different  kind  of  spices.  It  is  now  ready 
for  use. 

CHUTNEY 

Peel  and  chop  six  tomatoes  and  same 
quantity  of  tart  apples;  mince  one  dozen  figs 
(dried) .  Put  them  with  the  other  fruit,  add 
to  them  a  clove,  garlic  and  a  small  onion, 
both  grated,  a  scant  teaspoon  each  of  ground 
ginger  and  cayenne  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of 
salt,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  and 
one  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  all  together  for 
half  an  hour,  when  cold,  bottle  and  seal. 


BREAD 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS 

One  pint  of  meal,  one  pint  of  flour,  three 
ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
one  half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Sift  flour  with 
cream  of  tartar  and  salt  into  a  bowl,  dissolve 
the  soda  in  a  little  boiling  water,  stir  into 
milk,  mix  butter  and  milk  until  creamed,  add 
gradually  the  eggs,  then  alternately  the  flour 
and  milk,  rub  the  inside  of  muffin  pan  with 
lard.  Fill  each  three-quarters  full,  then 
bake. 

BAKING-POWDER  BISCUIT 

To  one  quart  of  flour,  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Sift  all  these  together.  One 
tablespoonful  of  cold  lard  rubbed  in  with 

35 


36         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

spoon  (not  the  hands),  add  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  cold  milk,  making  a  thinner  batter 
than  for  beaten  biscuit,  work  well  with  spoon 
only,  should  be  just  soft  enough  to  roll  out, 
cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  moderately- 
hot  oven. 

SALLY  LUNN 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  of  milk,  two  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  baking  powder,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  dessertspoonful  of 
butter,  flour  enough  for  a  pound  cake  dough. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT 

To  one  quart  of  flour  add  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one  pinch  soda,  sift  these  altogether, 
then  mix  in  one  tablespoon  of  lard,  which  has 
previously  been  on  ice.  (It  must  be  cold  and 
stiff.)  Moisten  all  with  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
which  has  also  been  on  ice  and  in  which  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  crushed  ice  is  put.  Mix  all 
well  together,  beat  or  work  in  machine  until 
light,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  A  hot 
oven  blisters  them. 


BREAD  37 

WAFFLES 

One  pint  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  into 
a  bowl,  add  sugar  and  salt,  rub  butter  in  well, 
then  the  milk  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  which 
have  been  beaten  light.  Then  add  the 
whites,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Have  your  irons  very  hot  and  brush 
with  butter  or  lard  and  bake  waffles  about 
two  minutes,  or  till  brown. 

PLAIN  WAFERS 

One  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  a  little  salt,  sifted  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  rapidly  until 
smooth  and  light,  and  bake  quickly  in  hot 
irons. 

DELICIOUS  RICE  CAKES 

Put  one  pound  of  rice  in  water  and  soak 
over  night;  boil  it  very  soft  in  the  morning, 
and  strain  the  water  from  it;  mix  with  it  while 


38         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

hot,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  set  this 
away  to  cool.  When  cold  add  one  quart  of 
milk,  a  little  salt,  six  eggs,  then  sift  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  stir  it  in  gradually  to  other 
ingredients,  beat  the  whole  very  well.  Bake 
on  a  griddle  like  other  batter  cakes. 

SPOON  BREAD 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  meal,  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  tablespoonful 
of  lard,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Scald  the 
meal  thoroughly  with  hot  water,  then  stir  in 
the  eggs,  melted  butter  and  lard,  then  the 
milk,  and  lastly  the  baking  powder.  Be 
careful  to  have  a  thin  batter. 

QUICK  ROLLS 

Three  cakes  of  yeast  dissolved  in  lukewarm 
water,  one  cup  of  milk,  heated,  one  teaspoon 
of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon 
of  sugar.  Put  milk,  butter,  sugar  and  salt 
in  bowl;  when  all  is  melted  and  milk  luke- 
warm, add  yeast,  then  enough  sifted  flour 
beaten  in  to  make  a  thin  batter.     Put  the 


BREAD  39 

bowl  in  a  pan  of  warm  water,  cover  well  and 
allow  to  stand  until  it  has  doubled  in  bulk 
(stand  pan  not  far  from  stove) .  Then  take 
this  batter  and  add  enough  flour  so  as  to  be 
able  to  turn  it  out  on  the  board  to  knead, 
knead  until  dough  is  smooth  and  put  again 
to  rise,  same  arrangement  as  before.  Take 
out  and  shape  into  rolls,  allow  to  rise  in  a 
baking  pan,  brush  with  milk  and  bake. 

SWISS  ROLLS 

Scald  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  to  which  has 
been  added  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  (scant), 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  when  milk  is 
warm  add  half  an  yeast  cake,  four  teacups 
of  flour  (measured,  after  being  sifted  twice) 
one  small  teaspoon  of  salt;  put  in  milk.  Put 
it  in  a  moderately  warm  place  to  rise;  when 
raised,  place  in  ice  box  for  at  least  three  hours 
(or  over  night).  When  ready  to  use  turn 
the  dough  on  a  well  floured  board  and  roll 
to  half  an  inch  thickness,  cut  any  shape,  rise 
slowly  until  very  light,  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Just  before  they  are  done 
brush  over  the  top  with  a  little  melted  butter. 


4o         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

These  directions  were  given  me  for  rolls 
in  the  winter;  you  do  not  have  to  follow  all 
of  them  for  summer  rolls. 

NUT  BREAD 

Two  cups  of  flour,  light  measure,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar, 
one  teaspoon  salt,  one  cup  chopped  walnuts, 
full  cup.  Beat  egg  and  sugar  till  creamy, 
add  flour  and  cream  tartar  and  salt.  Dis- 
solve soda  in  milk,  add  these,  and  beat  all 
well  together,  then  mix  in  the  nuts.  Bake 
slowly,  at  least  one  hour. 


CAKES 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  scant  cups  of 
sugar,  five  level  cups  of  flour,  after  sifting, 
one  scant  cup  of  butter,  two-thirds  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  two 
level  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  half  of  flour  and  milk, 
then  balance  of  flour  and  eggs.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  This  is  enough  batter  for  two 
cakes. 

FILLING 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  thin 
cream.  Cook  together  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  thin  with  a  wine  glass  full  of  sherry;  beat 
hard  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  one  cup  of 
chopped  nuts,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  a 
little  citron,  and  candied  cherries. 
41 


42         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

SPONGE  CAKE  ROLL 
Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  teacupful 
of  sugar,  one  teacupful  of  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  in  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  water.  Sift 
flour,  mix  in  cream  of  tartar,  beat  the  yolks 
light,  then  beat  them  with  sugar,  put  this 
to  flour,  then  add  the  whites  which  have  been 
beaten  stiff,  then  the  soda.  Bake  quickly  in 
biscuit  pan,  turn  out  in  damp  towel,  and  roll 
while  warm.  The  filling  should  be  made 
first. 

FILLING  FOR  SPONGE  CAKE  ROLL 
The  pulp  of  three  lemons  and  the  rind  of 
one,  either  grated  or  chopped  very  fine,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  six  eggs  beaten 
separately,  sugar  to  taste,  three-fourths  of  a 
teacup  of  cold  water;  put  on  the  fire  and  stir 
constantly  until  thick.  Do  not  let  it  boil. 
Put  aside  until  cold,  then  use  in  roll. 

CRULLERS 
One  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  light  weight,   six  eggs,   a 


CAKES  43 

small  cup  of  milk  (teacup),  flour  enough  to 
roll  out  without  breaking.  Mix,  first  the 
sugar  and  butter  until  creamy,  then  beat  in 
the  eggs,  then  the  milk,  then  sift  in  the  flour, 
roll  out  as  thick  as  you  like  and  fry  in  hot 
boiling  lard;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon. 

CUP  CAKE 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three 
cups  of  flour,  four  eggs  and  one  cup  of  milk, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder  sifted  in 
flour. 

Make  spice  cake  by  this  recipe  adding  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  spices. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

One  pound  sugar,  a  light  three-quarter 
pound  of  butter,  one  pound  flour,  whites  of 
sixteen  eggs,  beaten  in  the  usual  way;  add 
two  pounds  of  desiccated  cocoanut,  two 
pounds  citron,  chopped  very  thin  and  fine, 
two  pounds  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  very 
fine.  Bake  as  you  do  every  kind  of  fruit 
cake. 


44         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

ICING  WITH  NUTS  FOR  CRACKERS 

Three  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  six  cups 
of  water,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Put  sugar 
and  water  on  fire  to  boil  until  thick,  beat  the 
whites  stiff,  and  when  sugar  is  ready  beat  in- 
to whites  until  thickened,  then  put  in  nuts 
and  spread  on  crackers,  put  in  oven  for  a 
minute  or  two  until  brown. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Sift  flour  and 
baking  powder  together,  then  mix  in  butter 
and  lard,  add  sugar  and  milk.  Bake  in  jelly 
cake  pans,  split  while  hot,  butter  and  put  in 
strawberries,  which  you  have  previously  pre- 
pared with  sugar. 

COOKIES 

To  four  eggs,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
even  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard,  a  very 
small  pinch  of  soda  and  as  much  flour  as  will 


CAKES  45 

make  a  moderately  stiff  dough.     Fry  in  a 
good  quantity  of  lard. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

Eleven  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate, 
eight  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar, 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  four  crackers  (crumbs) 
powdered.     Bake  as  a  layer  cake. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  three 
cups  of  flour,  three  eggs,  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  same  quantity  of  sweet  milk, 
one  and  a  half  small  teaspoons  of  soda. 
Make  these  into  a  batter,  then  add  the  fol- 
lowing when  cool:  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
grated  chocolate  dissolved  in  three-quarters 
of  a  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  boil 
in  a  double  boiler  until  it  is  as  thick  as  cream ; 
when  cool  add  to  batter,  bake  in  jelly  cake 
pans  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing.  For 
this  quantity  it  takes  four  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  two  cups  of  water,  whites  of  four  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar  for  icing. 


46         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

MOCHA  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  eggs,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk,  one  and  a 
half  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  sifted 
with  flour,  half  a  pound  of  shelled  almonds 
browned  slightly  in  the  oven,  grind  quite  fine 
and  mix  with  a  little  pulverized  sugar,  set 
aside  until  cake  is  done.  Cream,  butter  and 
sugar,  beat  yolks  and  add,  then  the  flour 
(with  baking  powder  in  it)  and  milk  alter- 
nately, beat  whites  stiff  and  fold  them  in. 
Bake  in  square  pans.  When  cold,  cut  in 
finger  lengths  and  butter  each  piece  of  cake 
on  all  sides,  then  roll  in  the  mixture  of  al- 
monds and  sugar. 


DESSERTS 

LEMON  SPONGE 

One  and  a  quarter  ounces  of  gelatine,  four 
eggs  (the  whites  only  required),  three 
lemons,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  two  cups  of  boiling  water.  Soak  the 
gelatine  in  cold  water  and  pour  boiling  water 
on  it,  then  add  the  juice  of  lemons,  and  sugar. 
Whip  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
whip  gelatine,  etc.,  till  frothy;  when  cool  add 
the  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  all  well  together, 
dip  your  mold  into  hot,  then  into  cold  water 
and  put  your  sponge  in ;  set  quickly  on  ice. 

PINK  PUDDING 

One  cupful  of  fruit  juice,  one  and  a  quarter 
ounces  of  gelatine,  the  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Dissolve  gelatine  in  a  little  water  (about 
three-fourths  of  a  cup) ,  add  the  juice  and  let 
it  cool.     Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 

47 


48         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

stiff  froth,  add  them  to  the  rest  and  whip  to- 
gether. Put  into  a  mold  and  set  at  once  on 
ice.     Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  a  custard. 

SNOW  PUDDING 

The  juice  of  three  lemons,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one-half  package 
of  gelatine.  Let  the  gelatine  stand  half  an 
hour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  then  pour  that 
off  and  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Beat 
the  eggs  and  sugar  well,  then  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  gelatine  and  beat  until  it  looks  like 
snow. 

PUDDING 

Yolks  of  six  eggs,  beaten  with  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  boil  one  quart  of  milk, 
and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch 
mixed  with  cold  milk  just  before  the  quart  of 
milk  comes  to  a  boil;  then  add  this  to  the 
yolks  and  sugar,  flavor  to  taste,  bake  in  a 
pan;  while  it  is  baking,  beat  the  whites  and 
sugar  (same  amount)  and  put  it  on  and  just 
let  it  brown.  To  be  served  with  cream  or 
cold  milk  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste. 


DESSERTS  49 

CREOLE  KISSES 

To  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  put  the 
whites  of  six  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Do  not  beat  the  whites  until  after  the  sugar 
is  added,  then  beat  hard  until  very  light. 
Add  one  pound  of  pecans  which  have  been 
picked,  only  stirring  enough  to  thoroughly 
mix  the  nuts.  Drop  on  wwgreased  paper  and 
bake  in  a  cool  oven. 

SULTANA  ROLL 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk,  add  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  one  beaten 
egg.  Stir  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  add 
a  pinch  of  salt,  strain  and  cool.  Flavor  with 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  vanilla  and  almond 
extract  and  add  one  quart  of  whipped  cream, 
color  leaf  green  and  freeze.  When  frozen, 
line  a  mold  with  this  frozen  cream,  and 
sprinkle  with  sultana  raisins  which  have  been 
soaked  for  several  hours  in  brandy.  Fill  the 
center  of  mold  with  one  pint  of  cream 
whipped  to  a  solid  froth,  adding  to  it  half  a 


50         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  vanilla.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt,  let  stand 
for  two  hours.  Claret  sauce  served  with 
this:  Put  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  quarter 
of  a  cupful  of  hot  water  over  the  fire,  stir 
until  it  slightly  thickens;  when  cold  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  claret  and  chill  on  ice. 

CAFE  PARFAIT 

One  pint  of  cream,  four  ounces  of  coffee 
beans,  six  ounces  sugar,  four  eggs  (yolks 
only),  one  cup  of  strong  coffee.  Put  the 
cream,  eggs  and  sugar  on  stove  and  whip 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add  beans  and 
coffee.  Let  stand  one  hour  or  more,  put  in 
freezer  until  stiff,  then  add  one  pint  of  thick 
cream,  maraschino  to  taste. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM 

One  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  one- 
half  package  of  gelatine.  Take  the  quart  of 
cream,  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar  and 
flavor  to  taste  with  vanilla  or  lemon  extract 
or  with  a  combination  of  both;  whip  it  up  like 
syllabub;  take   one   pint  of  milk  and  half 


DESSERTS  51 

package  of  gelatine,  set  it  before  the  fire  but 
do  not  let  it  boil  or  get  too  hot  or  burn,  only 
heat  it  enough  to  dissolve  well  the  gelatine; 
when  this  is  done,  pour  the  milk  and  gelatine 
into  the  whipped  cream.  Line  your  pans  or 
molds  with  cake  and  fill  them  with  the  cream. 
Let  it  stand  until  cold  and  then  turn  it  out 
of  the  pan. 

VENETIAN  PUDDING 

Butter  a  mold,  line  it  with  preserved  gin- 
ger, pineapple,  dried  cherries  or  any  sweet- 
meats. Make  a  rich  custard  with  half  a 
pint  of  cream  to  one  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks 
of  eight  eggs,  add  one  ounce  of  dissolved 
gelatine,  sweeten  the  custard  and  when  nearly 
cold  pour  into  mold  and  set  on  ice.  Turn 
it  out  when  you  serve  it  and  pour  cherry 
brandy  around  it  or  any  red  fruit  juice, 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  small  glass  of 
brandy  or  wine. 

ORANGE  CREAM 

Half  a  box  of  gelatine,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
five  oranges,  one  pint  of  cream,  one  pint  of 


52         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

milk,  yolks  of  five  eggs.  Cover  the  gelatine 
with  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  for  half  an 
hour,  whip  the  cream,  put  milk  on  to  boil;  as 
soon  as  it  boils,  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  it. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together  until  light, 
then  strain  milk  and  gelatine  into  it,  wash  the 
boiler  and  return  the  mixture  to  it,  stir  over 
the  fire  two  minutes  and  then  pour  into  a 
bowl  to  cool.  When  cold  add  the  juice  of 
the  oranges,  strained  through  a  sieve.  Now 
place  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice  and 
stir  continually  until  it  just  begins  to  thicken, 
then  add  the  whipped  cream  and  stir  carefully 
until  thoroughly  mixed.  Put  in  orange  skins 
to  harden,  serve  them  in  skins. 

MACAROON  PUDDING 

One  dozen  macaroons  dipped  in  sherry 
wine,  line  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  them, 
then  a  layer  of  blanched  almonds  and  citron 
chopped,  again  macaroons,  so  on  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Then  pour  over  this  a  corn- 
starch custard,  cover  with  macaroons.  Beat 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  add  them  to  a  very 
little  boiling  milk,  then  take  a  teaspoonful  of 


DESSERTS  53 

egg,  drop  on  macaroon  (on  top  of  pudding), 
and  in  each  egg,  drop  a  bit  of  red  jelly. 

MARSHMALLOW  SOUFFLft 

One  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar  to 
every  egg  (the  whites  only).  One  table- 
spoonful  and  a  half  of  gelatine  covered  with 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  to  every 
six  eggs,  vanilla  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs 
first,  then  beat  in  the  sugar  and  stir  gently 
while  pouring  in  the  hot  gelatine,  flavor  and 
put  in  mold  on  ice.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

NUTTED  CREAM 

Cover  a  quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine  with 
half  a  cupful  of  cold  water  and  let  it  soak  for 
half  an  hour.  Whip  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  turn  out  into  a  basin 
and  stand  this  in  another  of  cracked  ice  or  ice 
water.  Sprinkle  into  the  cream  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  almonds  or  pecan  nuts, 
add  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  powdered 
sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour 
three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water  over 


54         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

the  gelatine  and  place  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Strain  this 
over  the  cream  and  begin  at  once  to  stir,  con- 
tinuing until  the  ingredients  are  well  mixed 
and  the  mixture  is  slightly  thickened;  turn 
into  a  mold  to  stand  away  to  harden. 
When  ready  to  serve  turn  out  on  a  dish  and 
sprinkle  nuts  over  it. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

One  cup  of  maple  syrup,  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  beaten  together,  and  cook;  stir  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens,  strain  through  a 
sieve.  When  cold  add  one  quart  of  cream 
whipped,  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Put  in  mold  and  pack  in  ice  for  three 
hours. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

One  vanilla  bean  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  and  make  the  milk  into  custard  with 
four  eggs  and  four  ounces  of  sugar.  Dis- 
solve half  a  pound  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of 
water,  and  after  the  custard  cools,  mix  it 
with  the  gelatine.     Whip  one  quart  of  cream 


DESSERTS  '55 

to  a  froth,  drain  it,  mix  it  with  the  custard 
and  gelatine  when  it  begins  to  stiffen.  Cover 
the  bottom  and  sides  of  your  mold  with 
sponge  cake,  pour  in  the  mixture,  let  it  con- 
geal well. 

MACAROON  ICE  CREAM 

Pound  and  sift  one  dozen  stale  macaroons 
and  three  lady  lingers,  blanch,  chop  fine  and 
pound  to  a  paste  twenty-five  almonds  (or 
three  ounces  of  almond  paste)  ;  scald  one  pint 
of  milk  (cream  is  better)  in  double  boiler, 
add  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved. Take  from  fire  and  add  one  pint 
of  cream  and  set  aside  to  cool,  then  add  one 
tablespoon  of  orange  flower  water,  two 
tablespoons  of  maraschino.  Freeze  the 
cream  first,  then  take  out  dasher  and  stir  in 
macaroons  and  nuts,  pack  until  ready  to 
serve. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  PUDDING 

Heat  three  pints  of  milk  to  near  the  boil- 
ing point,  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs, 
one   large   spoonful   of  corn   starch;   let   it 


56         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

thicken  a  little,  then  sweeten  and  flavor  to 
taste.  Lay  slices  of  sponge  cake  in  a  pud- 
ding dish,  pour  over  them  this  custard,  let 
it  bake,  then  have  an  icing  made  of  the  eight 
whites  well  beaten  and  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar;  spread  over  the  pudding  when  done 
and  brown  slightly. 

BROWN  SUGAR  TRIFLE 

One  pint  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  half  a 
cup  of  hot  water  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  boiled 
to  a  syrup,  half  a  box  of  gelatine  dissolved 
in  cold  water  (enough  to  cover  the  gelatine) 
for  half  an  hour,  half  a  pound  of  walnuts. 
Pour  syrup  on  the  gelatine,  add  the  nuts, 
which  must  be  chopped  fine,  and  cool  until  it 
jellies,  but  not  too  stiff.  Beat  stiff  the  whites 
of  four  eggs,  stir  into  gelatine  mixture  and 
pour  into  mold.  Serve  with  a  custard  made 
from  the  four  yolks,  or  from  whipped  cream. 


MISCELLANEOUS 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

Reduce  half  a  gill  of  vinegar  into  which  a 
coffeespoonful  of  white  peppercorns  have 
been  added,  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  pour 
about  half  a  gill  of  cold  water,  five  egg  yolks, 
two  ounces  of  butter,  salt  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Set  the  saucepan  into  a  large  cone  containing 
boiling  water  or  on  a  very  slow  fire.  Stir 
constantly  with  a  wire  egg-beater  and  as  soon 
as  the  sauce  thickens  add  in  small  pieces  six 
ounces  of  butter  until  all  is  consumed; 
squeeze  in  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  if  the 
sauce  is  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  water  to 
it.  Strain,  put  into  a  vessel,  in  a  fain  marie , 
until  ready  to  use,  then  stir  briskly  and  serve. 

EGG  TIME  ALES  IN  PIMENTO  CASES 

For  lunch  or  supper.  Butter  eight  or  nine 
fluted   timbale   molds  very   thoroughly   and 

57 


58         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

line  each  with  a  canned  pimento.  Trim  (with 
scissors)  the  top  of  each  pimento  neatly  to 
form  a  perfect  edge.  Beat  six  eggs  without 
separating,  add  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  twenty 
drops  of  onion  juice,  and  a  half  cup  of  milk; 
stir  until  well  mixed;  use  this  to  fill  the 
pimentos.  Set  the  molds  on  paper  in  a  bak- 
ing pan,  pour  boiling  water  into  the  dish 
around  the  molds,  bake  until  the  centers  are 
firm,  do  not  allow  the  water  to  boil,  be  sure 
that  the  egg  mixture  comes  to  the  top  of  the 
pimento.  Serve  with  cream  sauce.  Color 
sauce  green. 

EGG-NOG 

Allowing  one  egg  to  each  person,  beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  separately.  Beat  the  yolks 
until  creamy,  then  beat  in  the  sugar  (granu- 
lated), one  tablespoonful  to  each  tgg,  beat 
until  very  light,  then  add  whiskey  (three 
tablespoonfuls  to  an  egg),  drop  it  in  slowly 
to  the  yolks  and  sugar,  beating  all  the  time; 
then  add  whites  which  have  been  beaten  to  a 


MISCELLANEOUS  59 

stiff  froth.     A  half  cup  of  whipped  cream  to 
each  egg  adds  very  much  to  the  goodness. 

PEACH  BLOW 

Peel  peaches  and  cut  up  fine,  sugar  and 
pour  over  some  whiskey  (to  taste)  or  better 
still,  brandy.  Let  stand  for  several  hours 
then  serve  in  a  glass  with  crushed  ice,  mixing 
well  together  ice  and  peaches. 

FOR  AFTERNOON  TEA 

Put  into  a  bowl  two  slices  of  preserved 
pineapple  and  cover  well  with  rum.  Let 
stand  five  or  six  hours,  then  cut  up  pineapples 
in  small  pieces  and  put  a  teaspoonful  of  the 
rum  and  a  small  piece  of  pineapple  in  each 
cup  of  tea. 

A  NICE  CHEESE  DISH 

A  medium  sized  piece  of  Roquefort  cheese, 
butter  or  cream  cheese;  as  many  drops  of 
tobasco  sauce  as  there  are  people  to  be 
served,  a  liberal  quantity  of  Worcester  sauce, 
a  little  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  (blacK  and 


60         SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

red),  a  little  paprika,  a  wineglass  of  sherry. 
Mix  all  these  thoroughly  and  serve  with 
salads.     Make  into  balls  or  a  pyramid. 

MINT  JULEP 

Put  one  lump  of  sugar  to  every  person  and 
two  or  three  extras.  Put  into  a  pitcher  with 
several  sprigs  of  mint  and  pour  over  this  boil- 
ing water  (half  a  pint) ;  set  aside  to  cool. 
Have  julep  glasses  ready  (by  rubbing  the 
rims  with  lemon  and  dipping  in  granulated 
sugar  to  frost  them),  fill  glasses  with  crushed 
ice  and  stick  a  sprig  of  mint  in  the  sides,  also 
straws.  Then  take  the  syrup  and  put  two 
jiggers  of  whiskey  to  one  of  syrup  and  pour 
over  the  crushed  ice.  I  usually  measure  all 
I  want  to  make,  putting  it  in  a  pitcher  and 
adding  more  whiskey  or  brandy  if  necessary, 
then  pour  over  ice.     Serve  at  once. 

YEAST 

Eight  pints  of  boiling  water  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  have  ready  twelve  large  Irish  potatoes 
peeled  and  in  cold  water,  grate  rapidly  one 
by  one  and  stir  in  the  boiling  water  until  it 


MISCELLANEOUS  61 

is  as  thick  as  paste,  remove  from  the  fire  as 
soon  as  the  potatoes  are  well  done.  Add 
when  cool  one  pint  of  yeast,  put  in  a  large 
bowl  to  rise.  Next  day  beat  down,  add  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  salt,  let  it  rise  a 
second  time,  beat  down  again,  pour  into  a 
jug  and  keep  well  corked.  This  yeast  will 
keep  several  months.  I  frequently  add  to 
the  above  a  pint  of  strong  hop  tea. 


THE   END 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  487  401  8    J* 


&•."--> 


n 


