Class     TAj/S 

Book JJjJL 

Copyright^?.- 


COPYHIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


© 
© 

© 

© 

© 

© 
© 

© 
© 

© 

© 

© 
© 

© 
© 


exoxoxoxoxo^xoxoxoxoxoxoxox©: 


SUNSHINE 


T$i 


Cook  Book 


i  I 


A  Collection  of  Valuable  Recipes  and 
Menus  gathered  from  various  sources 


BY  . 


flRs.  Jennie  E.  Underhill. 


e# 


COPYKIGHTED   AND   PUBLISHED   BY 

MRS.  JENNIE   E.   UNDERHILL, 

NEW   LONDON,  CONN. 

1910. 


© 

© 

© 

© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 

© 

© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 
© 

© 

© 

© 

© 
© 

® 


A^ 


* 


ft 


vy 


: 


©CI.A265099 


V 


The  receipts  in  this  book 
Are  all  tried  and  true, 
So  with  glad  sunshine  spirit 
They're  passed  on  to  you." 


CONTENTS. 


Page 

Soup,      ....... 

5 

Fish,  Oysters  and  Clams, 

13 

Meats  and  Poultry,         ..... 

22 

Fish  and  Meat  Sauce, 

35 

Left-overs  and  Luncheon  Dishes, 

38 

Vegetables,    ..... 

45 

Mushrooms,             ...... 

5« 

Bread,  Biscuit,  Muffins,  etc., 

60 

Eggs  and  Omelets,         ..... 

7i 

Cheese,           ...... 

77 

Sandwiches,             ...... 

82 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings, 

86 

Pastry,             ....... 

96 

Hot  Desserts,          ...... 

105 

Cold  Desserts,         ..... 

113 

Loaf  and  Layer  Cakes,            .... 

122 

Cake  Filling  and  Frosting, 

137 

Small  Cakes,  Cookies  and  Doughnuts, 

142 

Ice  Creams,  Sherbets  and  Beverages, 

146 

Pickles  and  Preserves,           ..... 

154 

Candy,          ........ 

163 

Household   Hints,         ...... 

168 

SOUP. 

SOUP  STOCK. 

Select  a  shank  of  beef  and  have  it  sawed  in  pieces  about 
two  inches  long.  Wash  the  meat  in  cold  water.  Put  into 
a  soup-pot  allowing  one  quart  of  cold  water  for  each  pound 
of  meat  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  for  each  quart  of 
water.  Place  over  a  moderate  fire  till  it  comes  to  a  boil 
then  skim  carefully,  after  which  cover  it  close  and  set  where 
it  will  boil  gently  for  two  hours.  Then  skim  again  and  add 
a  small  onion,  a  few  slices  of  carrot,  and  a  stick  or  two  of 
celery  and  boil  until  the  meat  on  the  shank  is  tender.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  set  away  until  the  next  day  when 
the  soup  should  be  a  solid  jelly  from  which  all  the  fat  can 
be  removed.  For  use  melt  a  portion  of  this  jelly,  add  more 
salt  and  pepper  and  let  boil  up  once  and  serve  in  hot  tureen. 
If  rice  or  maccaroni  is  used  have  them  cooked  and  add  them 
while  hot  to  the  soup. 

A  shank  weighing  six  pounds  will  serve  twelve  people. 

CREAM   OF   CORN    SOUP. 

One  can  of  corn  simmered  with  a  little  water  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  pressed  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Season  with 
salt,  butter  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  cayenne.  Add  one  cup  of 
boiling  milk. 

PUREE  OF  CORN. 

Put  i  can  of  corn  through  a  vegetable  masher,  add  3  cups 
of  milk,  2  tablespoons  flour  wet  with  a  little  of  the  milk, 
large  lump  of  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  sugar,  cook  a 
few  minutes  and  serve  with  croutons. 

CROUTONS. 

Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  into  a  hot  frying-pan,  cut 
some  dry  bread  into  small  squares,  when  the  butter  begins 
to  brown  add  the  bread  and  frv  Hsfhtlv. 


6  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

Croutons  are  sometimes  bread  toasted  slowly  until  quite 
brown  and  cut  in  dice. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP. 

One  cup  dried  split  peas,  l/A  pound  salt  pork,  i  level  table- 
spoon flour,  i  tablespoon  butter,  i  tablespoon  celery,  salt 
and  pepper.  Look  the  peas  over,  wash  them  and  soak  in 
cold  water  over  night.  Drain  and  put  them  to  boil  witn 
the  salt  pork  and  simmer  gently  six  hours,  adding  the 
seasoning  about  an  hour  before  done.  If  not  cooked 
enough  the  thick  part  will  settle.  Strain  the  soup  and  re- 
turn it  to  the  kettle.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together. 
Stir  into  the  soup  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Boiling  water 
or  hot  milk  may  be  used  to  thin  the  soup  if  too  thick. 

GREEN    PEA   SOUP. 

i  can  green  peas.  i  onion, 

i  pt.  of  stock  or  water,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  of  cream, 

1   cup  milk,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cover  peas  with  water  and  boil  with  an  onion  until  they 
will  mash  easily.  Mash,  add  1  pint  of  stock  or  water. 
Cook  together  the  butter  and  flour  until  smooth,  but  not 
brown.  Add  to  the  peas,  then  add  milk  and  cream  (or  2 
cups  of  milk),  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  boil  up  once. 
Strain  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  CHEESE  SOUP. 

1   quart  of  milk,  l/2  teaspoon  onion  juice, 

1  tablespoon   chopped  *4  cup  butter, 
carrot,                                       yolks  of  two  eggs, 

2  level  tablespoons  flour,         Salt  and  pepper. 
Yi  cup  grated  cheese, 

Heat  but  do  not  scald  the  milk ;  rub  butter,  flour,  onion 
and  carrot  together  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  hot  milk  grad- 
ually, stirring  constantly.  Strain  and  return   to  the  double 


soups.  7 

boiler  and  add  the  cheese  and  stir  till  melted,  then  add  the 
eggs  well  beaten.  Whip  with  an  egg  beater  till  covered  with 
froth  and  serve  at  once. 

CELERY  SOUP. 

i  bunch  celery,  Butter  size  of  walnut, 

i  pt.  milk,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  celery  (except  heart  pieces)  into  small  dice,  cover 
with  cold  water  and  boil  three  to  four  hours.  Rub  through 
colander,  put  back  into  pan  with  pint  of  milk  and  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Serve  hot. 

CELERY   SOUP. 

Put  a  veal  bone  to  boil  in  i  quart  of  water.  After  skim- 
ming it  well  add : 

2  tablespoons  rice.  I  pint    celery    (cut    very 

I  teaspoon  celery  salt,  fine), 

I  onion. 
Let  this  boil  till  reduced  to  one  pint.  Take  out  the  meai 
and  pass  the  soup  through  a  colander,  mashing  and  extract- 
ing as  much  of  the  puree  as  possible,  passing  the  stock 
through  it  two  or  three  times.  Boil  i  quart  of  milk  sepa- 
rately, rub  2  tablespoons  of  flour  in  a  half  cup  of  butter,  add 
this  to  the  boiled  milk.  After  cooking  it  a  few  minutes 
add  the  milk  to  the  celery  puree  and  serve  at  once,  mixing 
milk  and  puree  well. 

CREAM    OF   ONION   SOUP. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  one  dozen  onions  and  fry  a  light 
brown  in  a  little  butter.  Add  2  cups  of  milk  and  I  quart  of 
water,  i  teaspoon  sugar  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cook 
for  thirty  minutes.  Strain  and  add  a  cup  of  cream  and  two 
hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine  and  serve  at  once. 

CREAM    OF  ASPARAGUS    SOUP. 

i  bunch  of  asparagus,  i  small  onion, 

i  pt.  water,  2  tablespons  butter, 

i  qt.  milk.  Pepper  and  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 


8  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

Cook  asparagus  and  onion  until  asparagus  is  tender. 
Remove  onion  and  rub  the  rest  through  a  strainer.  Blend, 
flour  and  butter.  Add  milk  gradually.  Boil  five  minutes. 
Add  stock  and  pulp.     Heat  and  season  to  taste. 

RICE   AND    ONION   SOUP. 

i  tablespoon  butter  or  I  stick  of  celery, 

drippings,  i  onion  (sliced), 

3  tablespoons  rice,  \]/2  teaspoons  salt, 

2  tablespoons  parsley,  I  bay  leaf, 

chopped,  7  cups  of  boiling  water. 

Fry  the  onion  in  the  drippings  then  put  all  the  ingredi- 
ents into  a  kettle  and  boil  till  rice  is  tender,  add  the  parsley 
and  serve. 

CREAM   OF   SPINACH    SOUP. 

]/2  peck  spinach,  3  tablespoons  flour, 

1  quart  stock,  3  tablespoons  butter, 

2  cups  cream  or  milk,  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Cook  spinach  one-half  hour  without  water.  Chop  fine 
and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  stock,  thickening,  seasoning 
and  simmer  five  minutes.     Add  hot  cream  and  serve. 

CREAM   OF   LIMA   BEAN   SOUP. 

Cook  1  pint  of  lima  beans  in  salted  water  till  perfectly 
tender  then  press  through  a  colander.  Add  1  quart  of  milk, 
a  tablespoon  of  grated  onion  and  a  bay  leaf.  Pour  into  a 
double  boiler  and  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  two  of 
flour  that  have  been  rubbed  together.  Cook  and  stir  con- 
stantly till  thick  and  smooth.  Put  through  sieve,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

BAKED    BEAN   SOUP. 

Baked  Beans,  Tomato, 

Salt,  Pepper. 


SOUPS.  g 

Put  baked  beans  with  twice  their  amount,  of  water  on  to 
boil  and  stew  until  soft.  Add  half  as  much  tomato.  Rub 
all  through  a  strainer.  Put  on  to  boil  again  and  thin  with 
water  if  necessary.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

CHICKEN    SOUP. 

To  i  quart  of  soup  stock  add  i  tablespoon  of  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  milk  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Then  add  the  yolk 
of  one  egg  beaten  with  one-half  cup  of  milk.  Strain  and 
add  one  cup  of  peas. 

EGG  SOUP. 

To  one  quart  of  beef  or  chicken  broth  add  one  cup  of  rich 
milk.  Pour  it  boiling  hot  on  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs 
to  which  you  have  added  a  half  cup  of  milk.  Reheat  and 
serve  at  once. 

MILK    SOUP. 
i   quart  rich  milk,  i  cup  mashed  potatoes, 

yolks  of  two  hard  boiled        j/2  cup  butter, 
eggs,  Pepper  and  salt. 

1  tablespoon  flour, 

Cream  egg  yolks,  butter,  and  flour  together.  Beat  into 
the  potato  and  add  to  the  milk  that  has  been  brought  to  the 
boiling  point  but  not  boiled.  Strain,  season,  reheat  and 
serve. 

POTATO  PUREE. 

2  lbs.  potatoes,  1   teaspoon  salt, 
2  tablespoons  chopped              2  ozs.  butter, 

onions,  1   qt.  boiling  milk, 

2  tablespoons  choped  1   qt.  boiling  water, 

celery,  y'2  teaspoon  pepper. 
Yz  cup  sago. 

Wash,  peel  and  slice  potatoes,  onions  and  celery,  melt 
the  butter  and  add  it  to  the  vegetables,  stirring  it  for  five 
minutes  to  keep  it  from  browning  or  burning.  Then  add 
the  boiling  water.  When  the  vegetables  are  soft  rub  them 
through  a  sieve,  add  the  milk,  and  when  the  soup  is  boiling 


IO  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

add  the  sago,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  cook  until  the  sago  looks 
clear.     Stir  the  soup  well  and  add  the  seasoning  last. 

VEGETABLE   SOUP. 

\y2   lbs.  lean  beef,  i   cup  carrot,  cut  fine, 

i   cup  turnip  chopped,  y2  cup  onion, 

Ya  cup  rice,  3  qts,  water, 

1  pt.  tomatoes,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  beef  (chopped),  and  vegetables  (cut  fine),  and  rice 
in  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  let  boil  three  hours,  add 
salt  and  pepper.  One-half  hour  before  serving  add  tomatoes. 

CLAM   BOUILLON. 

3  quarts  clams,  1  quart  cold  water. 

Wash  clams  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  water  and  cover 
tightly  so  as  to  keep  every  bit  of  steam  in.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  to  the  broth  and  serve  with  or  without  whipped 
cream  in  cups. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

1  qt.  long  clams,  yA  lb.  fat  salt  pork, 

2  onions,  1  cup  milk,  salt  and  pep- 
6  milk  crackers,  per. 

6  medium-sized  potatoes, 

Separate  and  clean  clams.  Chop  the  hard  part  very  fine. 
Fry  the  pork  in  an  iron  kettle  in  which  you  make  the  chow- 
der, add  the  onions  sliced,  and  fry  until  light  brown,  then 
add  1  quart  hot  water  and  the  necks  of  the  clams  which 
have  been  chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  slowly  l/i 
hour,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  clams  and  the  potatoes  cut  in 
dice  or  thin  slices,  cook  until  potato  is  done  Then  add  milk 
in  which  the  crackers  have  been  soaking.  Boil  up  once  and 
serve. 

CREAM  OF  SALMON  SOUP. 

y2  can  salmon,  2  tablespoons  butter. 

4  level  tablespoons  flour,  1   qt.  milk 


SOUPS.  1 1 

Drain  oil  from  salmon,  remove  skin  and  bones,  and  rub 
through  sieve.  Add  hot  milk  gradually.  Season  and 
blend. 

SHRIMP    BISQUE. 

i  cup  shrimps,  2  level  tablespoons  but- 

1  cup  cold  water,  ter, 

2  cups  hot  milk,  y2  teaspoon   salt,   speck 

2  tablespoons  flour,  of  pepper. 

Cut  shrimps  into  bits  and  add  cold  water.  Heat  slowly 
to  boiling  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Drain,  thicken  with  flour 
and  butter,  add  milk  and  seasoning. 

CLAM  BISQUE. 

1   quart  small  long  clams,         Butter  size  of  an  egg, 

3  pints  milk,  2  tablespoons   flour. 
Separate    clams   and   clean.     Chop    the    necks    and   cook 

them  one-half  hour  in  one  pint  of  water.  Cook  soft  parts 
fifteen  minutes,  warm  butter  and  mix  in  flour.  Heat  the 
milk  and  add  to  butter  and  flour,  then  add  the  cooked  clams. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

1   qt.  tomatoes,  1   tablespoon  butter, 

1  bay  leaf,  1  tablespoon  flour. 

1  small    onion,  1   teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  sugar.  pepper. 

1  pt.  watei . 

Cook  tomatoes,  onion,  and  bay  leaf  till  soft  enough  to 
rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  Blend  flour  and  butter,  when  hot 
pour  tomato  gradually  into  it  stirring  to  keep  it  from  lump- 
ing. Add  sugar,  and  seasoning  and  cook  for  about  ten  min- 
utes, adding  more  water  if  desired.  Reheat,  when  ready  to 
serve.    This  soup  may  be  made  the  day  before  using. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

1   qt.  tomatoes,  6  rolled  crackers, 

1  pt.  water,  Butter,  pepper,  salt, 

Yi  teaspoon  soda,  i   qt.  boiling  milk. 


12  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

Cook  tomatoes  thoroughly.  Strain  and  add  the  water. 
Heat  again  and  add  the  soda.  When  through  foaming,  add 
crackers  and  seasoning.     Pour  all  into  boiling  milk. 

CORN  CHOWDER. 

i   can  corn,  V4   lb.  salt  pork, 

i  onion,  sliced,  I   cup  cream  or  milk, 

I  qt.  potatoes,  sliced,  Salt,  pepper. 

Scald  the  potatoes  five  minutes  in  boiling  water  and  drain. 
Try  the  fat  from  pork.  Brown  onion  in  fat.  Add  the 
fat  to  i  quart  boiling  water.  Cook  onion  and  potatoes  in 
this  until  tender.  Seasor  to  taste.  Add  the  milk  and  corn, 
cook  five  minutes  without  boiling.  Add  8  crackers  broken, 
and  serve. 


FISH.  13 


FISH. 

HALIBUT    BAKED. 

1   slice  of  halibut  1V2  lbs.,       1   tablespoon     of    parsley 
Y%  teaspon  pepper,  and  onion  chopped  fine. 

*4  cup  melted  butter. 

Sprinkle  fish  with  the  above  ingredients,  roll  and  put  in 
shallow  pan,  dredge  with  milk  and  flour  and  bake.  Garnish 
with  lemon  cut  fan  shaped  and  parsley,  also  with  hard  boiled 
eggs. 

BAKED    FISH— COD    OR   HADDOCK. 

Cod  weighing  4  pounds  will  make  two  fillets,  have  skin 
and  back  bone  removed. 

1  pt.  oysters,  1^2  cups  cracker  crumbs, 

*4  cup  butter  (melted),  Salt  pepper  and  lemon 

1  egg  beaten   with    1    ta-  juice. 
blespoon  of  milk, 

Season  fish  with  salt  and  pepper  and  brush  with  lemon 
juice.  Lay  one  of  seasoned  fillets  on  greased  fish  sheet. 
Cover  with  oysters  dipped  in  buttered  cracker  crumbs  and 
lay  other  fillet  over  this.  Brush  with  the  beaten  egg  and 
milk.  Cover  thickly  with  the  buttered  crumbs  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  over  three-quarters  of  an  hour  or  until 
the  fish  flakes  easily.  Serve  with  tomato  or  Hollandaise 
sauce.  Creamed  macaroni  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
oysters. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 
Y?  cup  butter,  yolks  2  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,         ^4  teaspoon      salt,      cay- 
1-3  cup  boiling  water,  enne. 

Divide  butter  in  three  parts.  Put  one  piece  in  double 
boiler  with  yolks  of  eggs  and  lemon  juice.     Stir  constantly 


14  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

until  butter  is  melted  then  add  second  piece  and  as  it 
thickens  add  the  third  piece.  When  thickened  add  water, 
cook  one  minute  then  add  salt  and  cayenne. 

HALIBUT  FILLETS. 

Cut  in  round  pieces  about  biscuit  size.  Slice  rather  thin. 
Brush  each  piece  with  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
layer  of  seasoned,  mashed  potatoes  between  each  two  pieces. 
Cover  with  beaten  egg"  and  crumbs  mixed  with  butter.  Put 
in  pan  with  milk  to  cover  the  bottom  of  pan.  Bake  till 
crumbs  are  brown  and  fish  flakes.  Serve  with  Hollandaise 
or  egg  sauce. 

CREAMED  CODFISH. 
2  cups    milk.  i   cup  salt  codfish  packed 

2  tablespoons    butter,  solid. 

4  level  tablespoons  flour. 

Heat  the  milk  in  double  boiler,  keeping  out  %  cup  to  mix 
with  flour.  Make  a  paste  of  the  flour  and  milk  and  add  it 
to  the  heated  milk  and  cook.  Pick  up  the  codfish  into  small 
pieces  and  soak  in  cold  water.  Put  it  over  the  fire  and  let 
it  warm  slowly  but  do  not  let  it  reach  the  simmering-  point. 
If  the  fish  is  very  salt  change  the  water.  When  the  sauce 
is  cooked  add  it  to  the  codfish  and  butter.  A  beaten  egg  may 
be  added  to  this  if  desired,  then  cook  a  minute  and  serve. 

CODFISH  CAKES. 

i   pint  codfish,  2  eggs, 

i  quart  potatoes  (sliced  Butter, 
raw), 

Boil  fish  and  potatoes  together  until  potatoes  are  soft. 
Drain  off  the  water,  wash  thoroughly  and  add  the  butter 
and  eggs.  Fry  by  dropping  a  tablespoonful  into  deep  hot 
lard. 

CODFISH  BALLS, 
i  cup  raw  salt  codfish,  2  cups  raw  potatoes 

y2  tablespoon  butter,  (heaping), 

Y^  teaspoon  pepper,  1  egg  (beaten). 


FISH.  15 

Pick  the  fish  into  small  pieces,  if  very  salt  let  it  soak  a 
few  minutes  and  pour  off  the  water.  Put  the  fish  and  po- 
tatoes into  a  saucepan  and  cover  with  boiling-  water  and 
cook  till  potatoes  are  tender.  Drain  off  all  the  water  and 
shake  the  pan  over  the  fire  till  perfectly  dry,  if  any  moisture 
remains  the  balls  will  not  keep  their  shape  so  well  while 
frying".  Mash,  add  the  egg  and  seasoning,  beat  well  add 
more  salt  if  necessary  and  let  the  mixture  cool,  then  take  * 
tablespoon ful  at  a  time  and    fry  in  deep  fat. 

CODFISH    PUFF. 

1   pound  codfish,  2  cups    cold    mashed    po- 

1  pint  sweet  milk,  tatoes, 
a  piece  of  butter,  pepper. 

2  eggs, 

Pick  the  fish  in  small  pieces  and  put  to  soak  in  lukewarm 
water.  Melt  the  butter  and  mix  with  the  potato,  milk  and 
pepper.  Add  the  fish  and  bake  in  a  well  buttered  dish  about 
thirty  minutes. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Select  nice,  large  oysters,  drain  them,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg 
then  in  cracker  crumbs  again  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain 
and  serve  with  celery  or  cabbage  salad. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Select  large  oysters,  drain  them,  dip  them  in  meketi 
butter,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Lay  them  on  a  buttered  broiler  and  broil  them  a 
nice  brown.     Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

PIGS   IN    BLANKETS. 

Drain  and  carefully  dry  nice,  plump  oysters,  wrap  each 
one  in  a  thin  slice  of  bacon,  fasten  it  with  a  wooden  tooth- 
pick and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


1 6  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 

OYSTER  RAMEKINS. 

I   cup  diced  celery,  i   pint  oysters, 

3  tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour, 

y2  cup  milk,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cook  celery  till  tender  and  drain.  Heat  oysters  to  the 
boiling  point  and  skim  them  out  of  the  liquor.  Blend  flour 
and  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one-half  cup  each  of  milk, 
celery,  water  and  oyster  liquor.  Stir  until  thick,  then  add 
the  celery,  the  oysters  cut  in  pieces  and  the  seasoning. 
Put  the  mixture  in  ramekins,  cover  with  crumbs  and  brown 
lightly  in  the  oven. 

OYSTER  ROYALLE. 

Bring  a  quart  of  milk  to  a  boil  in  chafing  dish  and  add  a 
small  stalk  of  celery,  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  of  red  sweet 
peppers,  and  a  generous  tablespoon  butter,  creamed  in  1  of 
flour.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  add  three  dozen 
oysters,  serve  as  soon  as  their  edges  curl. 

SCALLOPED    OYSTERS. 

Butter  a  deep  baking  dish.  Put  a  layer  of  broken 
crackers  in  the  bottom.  Then  a  layer  of  oysters,  some 
small  bits  of  butter,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little 
of  the  oyster  liquor.  Then  another  layer  of  crackers, 
oysters,  and  seasoning,  til  you  have  the  required  amount. 
The  top  layer  must  be  cracker  crumbs.  Pour  in  enough 
milk  to  come  to  the  top  of  the  crackers,  put  in  the  oven  and 
bake  till  it  puffs  up  in  the  center. 

OYSTER   COCKTAIL. 

1  tablespoon  vinegar,  1  tablespoon   grated 
1    tablespoon    Worcester-  horseradish, 

shire,  1  tablespoon   tomato 

2  tablespoons  lemon,  ketchup, 

y2  teaspoon  salt,  y2  teaspoon  tobasco. 

Mix  together  and  pour  over  small  oysters  when  ready  to 
serve.     Serve  in  small  glasses. 


FISH.  17 

CREAMED    OYSTERS. 

2  tablespoons  flour,  1  large  tablespoon  butter, 

1   scant  pint  milk,  iy2  pints  oysters, 

1  well  beaten  egg,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Melt  butter  and  mix  with  flour,  add  milk  and  oyster  juice. 
When  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  oysters  and  cook  until  the 
edges  curl,  add  egg,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper.     Serve  at  once  on  hot  toast. 

BOILED   FISH. 

Take  three  lbs.  of  thick  part  of  a  cod  or  haddock.  Pin 
securely  in  a  cloth  and  place  in  kettle  partly  filled  with 
boiling  water  to  which  has  been  added  two  tablespoons  of 
salt,  two  of  vinegar,  a  bay  leaf  and  stalk  of  celery.  Boil 
from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Remove  the  cloth  and 
serve  with  egg  sauce. 

SALMON   CUTLETS. 

One  can  salmon,  picked  over  and  freed  from  skin  and 
bone  and  oil,  one  cup  thick  white  sauce,  seasoning,  egg  and 
bread  crumbs,  three  sticks  macaroni,  one  tablespoon  lemon. 
Have  a  thick  white  sauce  made  with  two  tablespoons  butter, 
two  tablespoons  flour,  and  one  cup  milk.  Mix  the  salmon 
and  lemon  juice  with  this.  Turn  onto  plate  to  cool,  divde 
into  twelve  portions,  shape  like  cutlets,  egg  and  crumb  each 
one  and  insert  a  two-inch  stick  of  macaroni  to  imitate  the 
bone.     Fry  in  deep  fat.     Serve  with  tomato  jelly. 

CREAMED    SALMON    (BAKED). 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  pint  of  milk, 

2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Make  this  into  cream  sauce. 

Break  up  one  can  of  salmon  fine  and  free  from  bone. 
Stir  into  sauce,  put  into  a  dish,  put  bread  crumbs  and  bits 
of  butter  on  top  and  bake  until  brown  in  hot  oven. 


J 8  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

ESCALLOPED   SALMON. 

Flake  salmon  with  a  silver  fork.  Fill  a  dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  fish,  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  and  white  sauce, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  The  top  layer  must  be 
crumbs  and  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Bake  a  light  brown  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes. 

ESCALLOPED   SALMON. 

i  can  salmon   (minced),  Salt,  pepper  and  bread 

2  tablespoons  butter,  crumbs, 

i  pint  of  milk. 

Heat  the  milk  and  butter,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  sal- 
mon, over  this  pour  a  little  of  the  milk.  Alternate  salmon 
and  bread  crumbs  with  crumbs  on  top  and  continue  to 
moisten  with  the  milk.     Bake  one-half  hour. 

BAKED  SALMON. 

i  can  of  salmon.  3  eggs  well  beaten, 

4  tablespoons  melted  ]/2  cup  sweet  milk, 

butter, 

4  milk  crackers,  rolled  fine,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Beat   all   together  well  with   a   fork,  sift  another  rolled 
cracker  over  the  top.     Bake  a  few  minutes  in  a  quick  oven 
until  a  light  brown. 

SALMON  LOAF. 

1  can  salmon,  1   cup    rolled    cracker    or 
y2  cup  melted  butter,  bread  crumbs, 

2  eggs,  Salt,  pepper  and  little  pa- 
]/2  cup  milk,  prika. 

Mix  all  together,  put  in  buttered  mould  and  steam  three 
hours.     Serve  with  drawn  butter. 

BAKED   BLUE   FISH. 

Dressing  for  one  fish — 3  slices  fat  salt  pork  chopped  very 
fine,  1  pint  milk  with  stale  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  it,  1  egg. 


FISH.  I9 

little  salt  and  pepper.  Remove  the  backbone  of  fish.  Lay 
flat  in  the  pan,  sprinkle  over  salt  and  pepper  and  place  in 
very  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Then  pour  over  it  the 
dressing  and  bake  till  done. 

CREAMED  HADDIE. 

Put  a  small  fish  to  boil  in  cold  water  skin  side  up  and  let 
it  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Rub  together  one  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  one  large  tablespoon  of  flour.  When  hot  add 
two  cups  of  milk  or  cream,  add  the  fish  and  let  it  boil  a 
minute  and  serve. 

FINNAN   HADDIE. 

Soak  in  scalding  water  a  few  minutes,  wipe  dry,  then  broil 
over  a  clear  fire.  Season  with  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter 
and  pour  hot  milk  over  it. 

BUTTERED   LOBSTER. 

i  cup  lobster  meat,  i  cup    white    sauce,    salt 

2  teaspoons    tomato    cat-  and  pepper, 

sup,  y-2.  cup  buttered  bread  or 

cracker  crumbs. 
Cut  lobster  into  dice,  add  sauce  and  seasoning,  turn  into 
buttered  dish,  cover  with  crumbs.     Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty 
minutes. 

FILLET   OF   SOLE. 
Dip  fillets  in  beaten  egg  and  flour  and  fry  in  hot  pork  fat 
till  browned  on  both  sides. 

SCALLOPS   A   LA   TARTAR. 

Dry  scallops  and  dip  in  salted  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  or 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  brown  in  deep  fat  using  a  frying  bas- 
ket.    Serve  with  Tartar  sauce. 

TARTAR  SAUCE. 

yolks  of  2  eggs.  i  teaspoon  salt, 

J/2  cup  of  oil,  i   teaspoon  onion  juice, 

i   tablespoon  lemon  juice,  i   tablespoon    chopped 

i  or  2   tablespoons   vine-  capers, 

gar,  i  saltspoon  pepper, 
i  teaspoon   mustard. 


20  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

Make  the  sauce  as  mayonnaise  dressing  adding  capers 
last. 

SCALLOPS  A   LA  NEWBURG. 

i   cup  thin  cream  or  rich  yolks  of  two  eggs, 

milk,  A  few  drops  of  tobasco 

2  tablespoons   butter,  sauce, 

i   teaspoon    Worcester-  2  tablespoons   of   port   or 
shire     sauce,     salt    and  sherry, 

pepper,  1  pint  of  scallops. 

Make  a  rich  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  cream  and  add 
scallops  and  seasoning.  After  they  are  thoroughly  heated 
add  the  eggs  (beaten)  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Sometimes 
the  scallops  will  make  it  toe  thin  in  that  case  mix  a  little 
more  flour  with  cold  milk  and  add  another  egg.  If  wine  is 
desired  add  last. 

LOBSTER    NEWBURG. 

1  cup  thin  cream,  2  cups  lobster  meat  dice. 
Yolks  of  two  eggs,  10  drops  onion  juice, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  Salt  and  paprika, 

2  tablespoons  sherry  or  port  wine. 

Melt  butter,  add  salt,  paprika  and  onion  juice,  then  add 
lobster  dice,  stir,  cooking  slowly  for  three  minutes,  add 
cream  and  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Stir  slowly  until  thickened 
then  add  wine      Serve  on  toast.  (WTine  may  be  omitted.) 

DEVILED  CLAMS. 

1  quart      round      clams         3  onions  (chopped  fine), 
(chopped  fine),  j/2  bunch     of     parsley 

3  tablespoons  butter,  (chopped  fine), 

2  cups  sweet  milk,  1   cup  clam  broth, 

3  tablespoons  flour,  Very  little  paprika. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter  until  brown,  add  the  parsley 
and  the  milk  to  the  onions  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Stir  the 
flour  smooth  in  a  little  of  the  clam  broth,  then  add  the  rest 
of  the  broth,  clams  and  paprika,  and  stir  all  into  the  boiling 
mixture,  and  let  it  boil  up  once,  take  from  the  frying  pan 


FISH.  21 

and  let  cool.  Then  fill  into  large,  round  clam  shells,  cover 
with  cracker  crumbs  and  small  bits  of  butter  and  bake  until 
brown.     Serve  hot. 

CLAM   CAKES. 
i   qt.  long  clams,  i   cup  flour, 

V2   cup  clam  broth.  Pinch  of  salt. 

1   egg. 
Separate  clams,  chop  rims  and  necks  or  put  them  through 
the    meat    grinder.      Beat    the    egg    thoroughly,    add    clam 
broth,  salt,  and  about  a  cup  of  flour  and  all  of  the  clams  to- 
gether.    Fry  in  a  frying  pan  in  small  cakes. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Drain  and  chop  1  pint  of  clams,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Make  fritter  batter,  using  a  heaping  pint  of  flour, 
as  the  liquor  in  the  clams  thins  the  batter.  Stir  clams  into 
this  and  drop  in  boiling  fat,  fry  until  brown.  Drain  and 
serve. 

FROGS   FRIED. 

Frogs  are  best  fried.  Only  the  hind  legs  and  quarters  are 
used.  Clean  them  well,  season,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  the  same  as  oysters. 

CLAM  PIE. 

1  pint  of  clams,  t   pint  of  diced  raw  pota- 

y2  pint  of  cream,  toes, 

Salt   and    pepper,  2   crackers  rolled. 

Separate  clams  and  chop  the  necks.  Fine  a  baking  dish 
with  pie  crust,  put  in  the  clams,  potatoes,  cream,  seasoning, 
and  clam  liquor.  Cover  with  a  top  crust  and  bake. 


SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 


MEATS. 


TO    BROIL   OVER    COALS. 

Have  the  coals  glowing  hot  without  flame  or  smoke 
Grease  a  double  broiler  with  beef  fat,  place  the  steak  in  it 
and  hold  it  near  the  fire  while  counting  ten  slowly.  Turn  the 
broiler  and  hold  the  other  side  down  for  the  same  length  of 
time.  Continue  to  turn  the  meat  about  once  in  ten  seconds 
until  it  is  well  seared.  Then  hold  it  further  from  the  fire 
turning  occasionally  until  the  surface  is  brown.  Just  be- 
fore taking  it  from  the  fire  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  pepper, 
turning  each  side  once  more  to  the  heat  to  cook  the  season- 
ing in.  When  the  steak  is  cooked  lift  it  onto  the  platter, 
spread  both  sides  with  butter;  garnish  if  you  like  with 
watercress  and  slices  of  lemon  or  with  parsley  and  serve. 

Time  for  a  steak  i  inch  thick  5  to  6  minutes. 

Time  for  a  steak  il/2  inches  thick  8  to  10  minutes. 

POT  ROAST. 

Select  a  piece  of  rump  beef  weighing  from  four  to  seven 
pounds.  Wash  and  trim  off  all  bad  places.  Put  a  little 
suet  into  a  kettle  and  when  melted  put  in  the  beef  and  sear 
on  all  sides.  Then  add  a  cup  or  two  of  boiling  water  two 
or  three  cloves  and  a  bay  leaf.  Cover  closely  and  cook  four 
or  five  hours  adding  a  little  more  water  when  needed. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  when  about  half  done.  Thick- 
en and  strain  the  gravy  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

BRAISED    BEEF. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  from  the  rump  or  chuck  rib.  Wipe 
it  carefully  with  a  damp  cloth  and  brown  it  in  beef  suet. 
Lay  it  in  a  roaster  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  over  it 
chopped  carrot,  onion,  celery  and  parsley.     Lay  over  this 


MEATS.  23 

two  or  three  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  and  three  or  four  cloves. 
Put  on  the  cover  and  cook  until  tender.  The  juices  in  the 
dish  will  make  a  nice  brown  gravy. 

ROAST   BEEF   SEASONED. 

Purchase  a  good  cross  rib  roast.  In  the  bottom  of  the 
roaster  sprinkle  salt,  pepper,  sage,  two  or  three  bay  leaves, 
mace  and  a  few  slices  of  onion,  then  put  in  the  roast.  Salt 
and  pepper  it  and  pour  about  ]/2  cup  of  water  around  the 
roast,  adding  more  water  as  it  boils  away. 

BEEF  POT  PIE  WITH   DUMPLINGS. 

Cut  2  lbs.  of  round  steak  into  cubes  and  add  1  cup  of 
brown  sauce.  Cover  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  three 
hours.  Drop  spoonsful  of  biscuit  dough  on  the  meat. 
Bake  until  crust  is  done  and  serve  with  another  cup  of 
brown  sauce.  If  you  have  no  brown  sauce  use  hot  water 
Cook  2  cups  with  the  meat  and  take  out  1  cup  before  putting 
on  crust.     Thicken  and  use  for  same. 

BEEF    HASH. 

Chop  fine  cold  steak  or  roast  beef  and  cook  in  a  little 
water,  add  cream  or  milk,  and  thicken  with  flour.  Season 
to  taste  and  pour  over  thin  slices  of  toast. 

CREAMFD   CORN    BEEF. 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk  with  half  an  onion  and  a  cup  of  celery 
cut  into  bits.  Strain  out  the  vegetables  and  stir  into  the 
milk  2  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour  creamed  to- 
gether. Stir  until  the  sauce  thickens  and  cook  for  5 
minutes.  Then  add  1  pint  cold  corned  beef  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover 
with  1  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  stirred  into  Y\  cup  melted 
butter  and  set  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  brown  the  crumbs. 
Garnish  the  center  of  the  dish  with  a  bouquet  of  celer> 
leaves. 

CALF'S    HEART    EN    CASSEROLE. 

Procure  a  calf's  heart  and  tongue,  mash  thoroughly,  re- 
moving any   tough  fibre   from   the  heart.     Take   one  good 


24  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

sized  onion,  slice  and  cook  a  golden  brown  in  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  place  in  bottom  of  casserole  or  large  beanpot,  then 
put  in  the  heart  and  tongue,  add  a  tablespoon  of  poultry 
dressing,  salt,  pepper  and  a  bay  leaf  and  one-half  cup  of 
well  mashed  rice.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slow- 
ly in  oven  about  three  hours  or  until  meat  is  very  tender. 
A'eal  or  chicken  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

HOW  TO  COOK  HAMBURG  STEAK. 

2  lbs.  steak,  A  little  bacon, 

Onion  juice,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Season  the  meat  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice.  Form  into  a  loaf  one  and  one-half  to  two 
inches  thick,  put  slices  of  bacon  cut  very  thin  over  the  top 
and  bake  until  done  in  a  hot  oven. 

OR 
Make  the  meat  in  balls  after  putting  in  the  seasoning,  fry 
in  bacon  fat  until  cooked  through,  take  up  the  meat  on  a  hot 
platter,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  the  fat  remaining 
in  the  frying  pan  and  when  mixed  smooth  with  the  fat,  add 
i  cup  hot  water,  boil  up,  salt,  and  pour  over  meat  balls. 

BAKED   HAMBURG    STEAK. 

i   lb.  raw  beef,  I  table  spoon      bread 

i  tablespoon    chopped  crumbs, 

parsley,  i   teaspoon   lemon  juice, 

i   tablespoon  butter,  I   teaspoon  salt, 

Yolk  i  egg,  3  dashes  black  pepper. 

Mix  this  together,  form  in  a  roll  six  inches  long,  put  bits 
of  butter  on  top  and  put  in  a  long,  narrow  pan  and  bake  in 
hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

FRIZZLED  BEEF. 

Take  %  lb  of  dried  beef  shaved  fine,  put  in  a  pan  with  2 
tablespoons  melted  butter.  Let  it  cook  three  or  four 
minutes  then  add  a  rounding  spoon  of  flour  and  a  cup  of 
milk  or  cream. 


MEATS. 


25 


CECILS. 

2  cups  chopped  beef,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  pep- 
2  table  spoons    bread  per, 

crumbs,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice, 

1   tablespoon  butter,  %.  nutmeg  grated. 
Yolks  2  eggs, 

Put  all  this  over  fire  and  stir  until  very  hot,  let  it  cool, 
then  make  into  balls  size  of  walnuts.     Dip  in  white  of  egg 
roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  a  nice  brown 
Serve  hot  with  tomato  sauce. 

LARDED  LIVER. 

y2  of  a  calf's  liver — larded  at  the  market. 
Sear  it  all  over  in  a  frying  pan. 

Make  a  gravy  by  sprinkling  some  flour  into  the  juice  in 
the  pan  and  brown  it.  Then  put  liver  into  casserole  with 
gravy  around  it  but  not  over  it.  Have  small  pieces  of 
vegetables  around  it  such  as  carrots,  parsnips,  potatoes, 
onions,  peas  and  string  beans,  as  many  as  you  prefer. 
Steam  two  or  three  hours  in  the  oven. 

DUTCH  CASSEROLE. 

2  pounds  of  round  steak  cut  in  pieces, 
1  can  peas,  y2  can  tomatoes, 

y2  carrot  cut  in  cubes,  4  cloves, 

1  onion  sliced,  34     CUP  bread  crumbs, 

34  cup  pearl  tapioca,  Salt  and  pepper. 

il/2  cups  cold  water, 
Cook  in  casserole  three  or  four  hours. 

YORKSHIRE    PUDDING— FOR   ROAST   BEEF. 

1  pint  of  milk,  2  cups  flour, 

4    eggs,  salt. 

Pour  this  batter  into  the  meat  pan  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  before  the  meat  is  done,  raising  the  roast  on  sticks 
or  a  grating.  Cut  the  pudding  in  squares  and  lay  it  around 
the  meat  when  done. 


26  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

BROWN   STEW   OF  VEAL. 

Two  pounds  veal,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork ;  cut 
the  pork  in  thin  slices  and  fry  to^  a  crisp  brown.  Cut  the 
veal  in  small  pieces  (as  you  would  for  a  stew  or  pot  pie), 
brown  in  the  pork  fat.  When  well  browned  turn  in  hot 
water  and  let  the  meat  cook  slowly  until  tender.  The  gravy 
should  be  a  rich  brown  color.  Serve  with  dumplings  or 
quick  biscuit.  The  flavor  is  much  improved  from  simply 
boiling  veal  as  many  do  for  pot  pie. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Put  into  ice  water  twenty  minutes  to  harden ;  parboil 
until  tender;  after  they  are  cool,  fry  them  in  butter,  until 
nicely  browned ;  for  the  gravy,  take  the  water  the  sweet- 
bread was  boiled  in ;  add  a  pint  of  stewed  and  strained  to- 
matoes; thicken  with  cornstarch,  blended  with  butter;  sea- 
son with  a  pinch  of  cloves,  mace,  pepper  and  salt;  strain 
over  the  hot  sweetbreads,  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

ZlA  pounds  veal  or  beef,  3  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  pepper,  1     tablespoon  salt, 

1   grated  nutmeg,  4  rolled  milk  crackers, 

1  tablespoon  cream,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 

%   pound  salt  pork  chopped. 
Make  in  loaf  and  cook  slowly  in  moderate  oven. 

BEEF   LOAF. 

2j/2  lbs.  chopped  meat,,  %  lb-  fet  pork, 

2  eggs,  1   cup  milk, 

6  milk  crackers,  Pepper,  salt  and  sage. 

Soak  the  crackers  in   the   milk.     Bake  one  and   one-half 
hours. 

PRESSED  VEAL. 

Boil  a  shin  of  veal  in  four  quarts  of  water  until  the  bones 

can  be  taken  out  and  the  water  is  nearly  boiled  away.     Chop 

the   meat   fine.     Season   with  pepper,   salt   and   a    pinch   of 

mace ;  add  two  cracker^  pounded  and  sifted,  and  chopped 


MEATS. 


27 


parsley.  Moisten  with  the  water  that  remains  in  the  kettle, 
and  put  into  a  bowl  that  has  been  wet  with  cold  water.  As 
you  fill  the  bowl  add  slices  of  two  or  three  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Cover  the  bow!  with  a  plate.  Set  a  weight  upon  it,  an  let 
it  stand  till  next  day. 

VEAL  CUTLETS   BREADED. 

Cut  the  veal  steak  into  four  inch  squares.  Dip  each  piece 
into  beaten  egg  then  into  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

TOMATO    SAUCE. 

Two  cups  tomatoes,  a  slice  of  onion,  and  four  or  five 
cloves,  cooked  together  a  few  minutes.  Blend  together  1  ta- 
blespoon of  butter  and  one  of  flour.  Stir  it  into  the  tomato 
and  cook.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  rub  through  a 
strainer. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

1  egg,  1   cup  cracker  crumbs, 

2  tablespoons  ketchup,  Salt,  pepper,  1  tablespoon 
1  tablespoon  butter,  flour. 

iy2  lbs.  veal  cutlets, 

Cut  the  cutlets  into  pieces  right  size  for  serving,  dip  into 
beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  until  brown.  Melt 
butter  in  double  boiler,  stir  in  flour  until  smooth,  add  1  cup 
boiling  water  and  the  tomato  ketchup.  Take  cutlets  from 
frying  pan  and  salt  and  pepper  them  and  add  them  to  sauce 
and  let  them  cook  in  double  boiler  from  one  and  one-half 
to  two  hours.  Serve  with  the  gravy  poured  around  them  on 
platter. 

LUNCH    VEAL. 

Take  a  pound  of  veal  steak,  remove  skin  and  fat.  Cover 
with  a  quart  of  water  and  let  it  slowly  simmer  until  the 
liquid  is  reduced  to  one  pint.  Take  out  the  meat  when  very 
tender  and  cut  it  into  dice.  Wet  a  mould  in  cold  water 
Place  two  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  and  a  few  thin  slices  of 
lemon  with  the  veal.  Add  one-eighth  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  a 


28  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

pinch  of  nutmeg,  and  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper  to  the  broth 
and  strain  into  the  mould  and  set  away  to  harden. 

MUTTON  STEW. 

2  lbs.  neck  of  mutton,  4  onions   (small), 

6  large  potatoes,  3  pts.  of  water, 

2  tablespoons  flour.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  off  all  the  fat,  and  cut  the  mutton  into  pieces  for 
serving.  Put  a  little  of  the  fat  into  the  stew  pan  with  the 
onions,  sliced,  and  stir  over  a  hot  fire  for  8  or  10  minutes. 
Then  put  in  the  meat,  which  sprinkle  with  the  flour,  salt  and 
pepper.  Stir  ten  minutes  and  add  the  water  boiling.  Boil 
about  3  hours. 

LIVER   FRIED   AS   CUTLETS. 

1   egg,  1   lb.  of  calves  liver. 

Powdered  crackers, 

Have  the  liver  cut  thin,  scald  and  wipe  dry.  Beat  up  the 
egg,  dip  the  liver  in  the  egg,  then  in  powdered  crackers,  and 
fry  brown.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

ROAST    LAMB. 

Place  a  leg  of  lamb  in  roaster.  Sprinkle  with  pepper,  flour 
and  salt  in  the  order  named,  and  roast  until  flour  is  brown; 
then  add  water,  basting  roast  often.  When  done  remove  the 
meat,  put  the  pan  on  the  stove.  Mix  flour  with  a  little 
water  and  pour  into  the  juices  in  the  pan  stirring  constant- 
ly until  it  thickens ;  if  lumpy,  strain. 

LAMB   AND    MUTTON    CHOPS 

Are  broiled  like  beef  steak  allowing  six  to  eight  minutes 
according  to  thickness.  Mutton  chops  may  be  slightly  red 
in  the  middle.  Lamb  chops  are  usually  preferred  less  red. 
Tomato  sauce  or  green  peas  may  be  served  with  chops. 

FRIED  PORK  CHOPS. 

Dredge  them  with  flour.  Sprinkle;  them  with  pepper  and 
.salt  and  a  little  sage  if  liked  and  fry  till  thoroughly  cooked. 


MEATS.  29 

If  gravy  is  liked  stir  a  large  spoonful  of  flour  into  the  fat  in 
the  frying  pan.  stir  till  it  is  smooth  and  brown,  then  add  milk 
or  water  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  thick  cream  and  sea- 
son it. 

HAM  WITH   CREAM   GRAVY. 

Put  a  slice  of  ham  into  a  hot  frying  pan,  brown  lightly  on 
both  sides,  add  one  cup  of  cream  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Let 
the  cream  boil  for  two  minutes,  and  serve  in  a  deep  platter 
poured  over  the  ham. 

DELICIOUS   BOILED    HAM. 

Put  the  ham  to  soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the 
morning  scrape  and  wipe  off  well.  Put  in  ham  kettle  with 
sufficient  water  to  cover.  When  the  water  begins  to  boil 
place  where  the  heat  will  be  sufficient  to  keep  up  a  gentle 
boiling.  From  four  to  five  hours  will  be  sufficient  to  boil  a 
ham  of  twelve  pounds.  Remove  the  kettle  from  the  stove 
and  allow  the  ham  to  remain  in  kettle  two  hours,  or  until 
cool.  On  removing  draw  off  the  skin.  Sprinkle  over  the 
entire  surface  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  brown  sugar,  dot  attractively  with  cloves.  Put  into  the 
oven  to  brown. 

SALT   PORK    WITH    GRAVY. 

Slice  the  pork  and  lay  in  a  frying  pan  with  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  and  let  it  come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point. 
Pour  off  all  of  the  water  and  let  it  fry  slowly  till  a  light 
brown,  turning  it  often.  Take  it  up  and  if  there  is  too  much 
grease  in  the  pan  for  gravy  pour  out  part  of  it. 

GRAVY. 

5  tablespoons  of  fat.  3  tablespoons  flour, 

t  cup  of  milk  or  water,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  flour  in  the  hot  pork  fat  and  stir  till  smooth  and 
light  brown  color.  Remove  from  the  fire;  add  the  milk  and 
stir  well.  Then  return  to  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.     Serve  in  gravy  boat. 


3°  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

SAUSAGE  AND   EGGS. 

Get  a  pound  of  link  or  bag  sausage  remove  the  skin  and 
fry  out,  breaking  up  into  small  pieces ;  when  the  sausage  is 
cooked  drop  in  five  eggs;  stir  together,  and  when  the  eggs 
are  set  remove  and  serve.  This  is  an  excellent  breakfast  dish 
and  will  serve  five  persons. 

TO  FRY  SAUSAGES. 

Put  a  little  lard  into  a  frying  pan  Prick  the  sausages  to 
prevent  them  from  bursting.  Lay  them  in  the  melted 
grease  and  turn  them  frequently.  They  ought  to  be 
cooked  in  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  Another  sure  way  to  pre- 
vent the  cases  from  bursting  is  to  cover  them  with  cold 
water  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point,  then  turn  it  off 
and  fry  them. 

BAKED   SAUSAGES. 

Lay  the  sausages  in  ?  pan  and  put  them  in  the  oven. 
When  the  grease  is  partly  fried  out  pour  it  off,  turning 
the  sausages  over  so  to  brown  on  both  sides.  This  is  a  very 
nice  way  to  cook  sausages  and  you  avoid  all  smoke  and  odor 
in  the  kitchen. 

BREAKFAST   BACON. 

Soak  slices  of  salt  pork  or  bacon  in  milk  for  ten  minutes, 
then  roll  in  flour  and  fry.  When  done  have  some  raw  pota- 
toes sliced  thin  and  fry  in  the  pork  fat.  Serve  the  potatoes 
on  a  hot  platter  with  the  pork  or  bacon  in  a  circle  around 
them. 

PLAIN  CHICKEN   STEW. 

Joint  a  fowl  and  boil  till  tender  in  salted  water.  Remove 
the  fowl  and  lay  on  a  platter  which  has  been  covered  with 
biscuits  broken  open.  Beat  flour  and  water  to  a  thick  cream 
and  pour  into  the  hot  broth  and  cook  till  as  thick  as  desired ; 
then  pour  over  the  chicken  and  serve  with  noodles. 


MEATS.  31 

NOODLES  WITH    CHICKEN. 

Beat  2  eggs  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  work  in  as  much 
flour  as  the  eggs  will  take  up ;  knead  well  and  roll  as  thin  as 
a  sheet  of  paper.  Set  aside  for  twenty  minutes  to  dry  or 
longer  if  necessary,  so  it  will  roll  without  sticking  together, 
but  dry  enough  to  break.  Cut  the  sheet  in  the  center,  lay 
one-half  over  the  other,  roll  like  a  jelly  roll  and  slice  it  in 
finest  shavings  with  a  sharp  knife,  turning  the  knife  so  to 
cut  them  in  short  pieces.  Take  enough  broth  from  the  boil- 
ing chicken  to  cover  the  noodles,  put  in  another  kettle,  bring 
it  to  the  boil.  Stir  it  while  you  sift  the  noodles  in  and  boil 
ten  minutes. 

CHICKEN    BROWNED    IN    GRAVY. 

Joint  a  chicken  and  boil  till  tender  with  salt  added  to  sea- 
son. Take  the  chicken  from  the  broth,  remove  the  large 
bones,  roll  in  flour  and  brown  in  hot  butter.  Make  a  thin 
batter  of  flour  and  water  and  pour  into  the  broth  and  cook 
till  as  thick  a?  cream  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour 
over  the  chicken  and  serve  hot. 

CHICKEN    IMPERIAL. 

2  cups     chicken  cut     in         1  large  cup  celery,  cut  in 

dice,  dice, 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  1   large  cup  French  peas. 

y2  pint  cream,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Yz  pint  milk, 

Cook  the  chicken,  milk  and  cream  in  a  double  boiler,  then 
add  eggs  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Just  before 
serving,  add  the  celery.  Serve  on  toast  or  crisp  crackers. 
Heat  the  peas  and  serve  a  spoonful  on  the  same  plate. 

CHICKEN    EN    CASSEROLE. 

Separate  chicken  into  pieces  at  joints,  wipe  each  piece 
with  wet  cloth  .saute  in  butter  in  frying  pan,  first  on  one 
side  then  on  the  other  till  delicatelv  browned.     Then  trans- 


32  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK 

fer  to  the  casserole.  Add  about  i  pint  of  hot  water.  Cover 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  heated  oven  about  i  y2 hours.  Melt 
2  or  3  tablespoons  butter  in  frying  pan  and  in  it  saute  6  oi 
8  peeled  mushroom  caps,  a  dozen  carrot  balls,  two  dozen 
potato  balls,  six  peeled  onions  size  of  potato  balls.  As  soon 
as  these  are  browned  removed  to  casserole,  add  more  broth 
if  needed,  salt  to  season,  four  tablespoons  sherfy  wine. 
Cover  and  return  to  oven  for  a  half  hour  or  longer,  until 
vegetables  are  tender.  Do  not  leave  casserole  uncovered. 

FRIED    CHICKEN. 

Select  a  young,  tender  chicken  ;  wash  thoroughly  for  no 
water  should  touch  the  meat  of  a  chicken  after  it  is  jointed, 
but  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth.  Roll  each  piece  in  flour  and 
fry  in  a  fiyiftg  pan  with  plenty  of  lard  and  butter.  Put  the 
chicken  in,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover  tightly 
to  keep  in  the  steam  till  about  half  done,  then  uncover  and 
turn  each  piece  so  to  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  with  a 
thickened  gravy  made  from  the  fat  left  in  the  pan. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN. 

4  level      tablespoons         4  level  tablespoons  flour. 

butter,  Yi  cup  cream, 

1   cup  hot  milk,  2.l/i  cups  diced  chicken. 

y2  cup  chicken  stock, 

Salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  blended.  Add  hot 
milk,  cream  and  stock,  season  with  celery  salt,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Add  chicken  and  cook  until  heated  through. 
Serve  hot  on  toast  or  in  pastry  shells. 

CHICKEN  CANAPE. 

y2  lb.     chicken     (cut     in         1     tablespoon  of  butter, 

cubes),  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 

1  cup  celery  cut  in  dice,  Salt,  pepper  and  pinch  of 

1  egg,  celery  salt, 

1  pint  of  milk,  Saltines. 


MEATS.  33 

In  a  chafing  dish  put  butter  and  flour;  when  melted,  add 
milk.  When  it  thickens  to  a  cream  add  chicken,  salt,  pepper 
and  celery  salt  and  I  egg,  slightly  beaten.  Add  the  celery 
last  and  pour  over  broken  saltines. 

JELLIED    CHICKEN. 

3  cups  chicken  meat,  2,y2  cups  chicken  liquor. 

y2     box  gelatine, 

Soften  gelatine  in  y2  a  cup  of  the  chicken  liquor,  cold, 
then  dissolve  it  in  the  remainder  of  the  liquor  heated.  Mix 
with  chicken  and  season  highly.  Put  in  a  mould  that  has 
been  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place  to 
harden. 

CHICKEN    CROQUETTES. 

1-3    cup  flour,  il/2  cups  chopped  chicken. 

1   cup  chicken  stock,  Salt,  pepper  and  cayenne, 

3  tablespoons  butter,  l/2  cup  chopped  almonds. 

Blend  butter  and  flour ;  add  chicken  stock  and  the  season- 
ing and  cook.  Mix  the  chicken  and  nuts,  moisten  with  the 
sauce  and  cool  then.  Shape,  crumb  and  fry,  serve  with 
horseradish  sauce. 

HORSERADISH    SAUCE. 

y2    cup  heavy  cream.  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice, 

J4  cup  grated  horseradish         Salt  and  cayenne, 
root, 

Beat  cream  till  thick  and  add  rest  of  ingredients. 

CRUST   FOR   MEAT   OR   CHICKEN   PIE. 

1   egg,  6  tablespoons  melted  but- 
1  scant     cup     of     sweet  ter, 

milk,  3  cups  flour, 

3  teaspoons  baking  pow-  A  little  salt. 

der. 

Stir  all  together  and  pour  over  meat. 


34  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

STUFFING    FOR    ROAST    TURKEY. 

4  cups  crumbs,  Yy2       teaspoons      poultry 

4  tablespoons  butter,  k  seasoning. 

y2   cup  boiling-  water,  2  teaspoons  salt. 

Yi  cup  cold  water, 

Melt  butter  in  boiling-  water,  add   salt  and  pepper,  cold 
water,  crumbs  and  seasoning-. 


<S 


FISH    AND    MEAT    SAUCES.  35 


Fish  and  Meat  Sauces. 


HORSERADISH    SAUCE. 

3  tablespoons   grated         4  tablespoons  cream, 
horseradish,  1   tablespoon  vinegar. 

J/\.    teaspoon  of  salt,  Dash  of  cayenne. 

Whip  cream  and  add  to  other  ingredients.  Serve  with 
fish. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

2  cups  tomatoes,  1   small  onion, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

A  bay  leaf,  sprig  of  pars-  Salt  and  pepper, 
ley,  blade  of  mace, 

Put  tomatoes,  parsley,  onion,  mace  and  bay  leaf  on  to 
cook  until  tomato  is  soft.  Stir  butter  and  flour  together, 
then  stir  it  into  tomato  until  all  is  smooth,  then  rub  through 
strainer,  return  to  the  fire  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Serve 
over  hot  meat. 

ONION    SAUCE   (FOR  STEAKS). 

Slice  and  fry  two  onions  brown  in  butter;  add  them  to  a 
half  cup  of  white  sauce  seasoned  with  salt  and  cayenne  and 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

1   tablespoon  of  butter,  A  little  onion  juice,  salt 

1  cup  of  stock,  and  pepper. 

1  tablespoon  of  flour, 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  frying  pan.  Add  the  flour  and 
brown  thoroughly,  then  add  stock  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 

MINT    SAUCE. 

l/2  cup  vinegar,  *4   cup  chopped  mint, 

1   tablespoon  sugar, 


36  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

Rinse  the  mint  in  cold  water  and  chop  fine.  Heat  the 
vinegar  and  add  sugar,  then  mint.  Let  stand  awhile  before 
using. 

WHITE   SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

2  cups  of  milk,  y2  teaspoon  salt. 

Melt  the  butter  and  rub  the  flour  into  it.  Add  the  milk 
and  stir  till  it  boils. 

FISH    SAUCE. 

Yz  cup  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour, 

1  pt.  water,  Yolks  of  2  eggs, 

1   tablespoon  lemon  juice,         Salt  and  pepper. 

Beat  butter  and  flour  together,  add  salt  and  pepper,  add 
this  to  hot  water  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Beat  yolks,  put  in 
top  of  double  boiler,  pour  sauce  on  them  and  let  them  stand 
in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes. 

COLD   EGG  SAUCE. 

Put  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  of  water  and  one  of 
melted  butter  into  a  saucepan  ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  thick 
and  like  jelly.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and 
a  dash  of  pepper.     To  be  served  with  cold  fish. 

EGG    SAUCE  FOR    FISH. 

1   tablespoon  butter,  il/2  cups  milk. 

1  tablespoon  flour,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

1  or  2  hardboiled  eggs. 

Cook  butter  and  flour  together  till  smooth.  Add  the  milk 
slowly.     Chop  eggs  fine  and  add  when  ready  to  serve. 

TARTARE  SAUCE. 

Mix  with  three  tablespoons  of  mayonnaise  or  boiled  salad 
dressing,  1  teaspoon  each  of  chopped  pickles,  olives  and 
parsley. 


FISH    AND    MEAT    SAUCES.  37 

TOMATO   SAUCE,   NO.  2. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  cup  strained  tomato,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Make  like  white  sauce  and  serve  over  fish. 


38  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 


LEFTOVERS. 


MEAT  PIES. 


Line  patty  pans  with  pastry  and  bake.  Mix  finely 
chopped  cooked  meat  with  enough  hot  meat  sauce  to  moist- 
en ;  season  to  taste  fill  the  patty  cases  and  serve. 

MINCED    MEAT    ON   TOAST. 

Chop  cold  meat  fine.  Season,  mix  with  hot  meat  gravy 
and  serve  on  toast. 

MINCED   HAM. 

Brown  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  put  in  a  half 
cup  of  finely  minced  ham  and  add  gravy  enough  to  make  it 
quite  moist.  When  thoroughly  hot  stir  in  quickly  with  a 
fork  one  egg;  serve  hot  on  toast. 

TOAST. 

In  making  toast  soak  in  hot  salted  milk  with  a  piece  oi 
butter  added,  this  takes  but  very  little  buter  and  is  much 
nicer. 

MEAT    PIE. 

2  cups  cold  roast  beef,  i   cup  gravy, 

T/2  cup  water,  i  onion, 

y2  teaspoon  salt,  x/\  teaspoon  pepper. 

Remove  fat  from  meat  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  some 
cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  inch  cubes ;  put  in  pan  with  cold 
left  over  gravy  and  water  to  make  thin.  Cut  up  onion  and 
bring  to  boiling  point ;  simmer  on  cooler  part  of  the  stove 
until  meat  is  tender  or  from  30  to  40  minutes.  When  the 
meat  is  tender  put  in  baking  dish  and  cover  with  baking 
powder  biscuit  crust. 


LEFT-OVERS.  39 

CRUST  FOR   PIE. 

1   cup  bread  flour.  i1/*       teaspoons      baking 

*4  teaspoon  salt,  powder, 

3-8    cup  milk,  1   tablespoon  butter. 

Make  as  for  tea  biscuits.  Roll  out  on  board  and  place 
over  the  meat  in  dish.  Bake  until  crust  is  brown  about  20 
or  25  minutes. 

BREAKFAST  DISH. 

Chop  two  cups  of  any  cold  meat  and  moisten  with  gravy; 
then  take  two  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice  made  moist  with  milk 
and  one  egg.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Make  a  border  of  the  rice  on  a  platter, 
which  you  can  set  in  the  oven.  Put  the  meat  in  the  center. 
Scatter  a  few  bread  crumbs  over  the  top  of  all ;  set  in  the 
oven  and  brown. 

SHEPHERD'S  PIE. 
Can  be  made  of  ham  or  tongue.  First  chop  meat  fine,  add 
1  tablespoonful  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  teaspoonful  poultry 
dressing,  a  little  chopped  onion,  pepper  and  salt  and  j4  cup 
of  gravy  or  stock.  Put  meat  in  crockery  dish  make  top 
crust  of  mashed  potatoes  and  bake  */>  hour. 

EMERGENCY    CROQUETTES. 

A  mixture  of  dried  beef,  veal,  sausage  and  fresh  pork,  put 
through  the  meat  chopper  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
onion  and  parsley,  make  delicious  croquettes. 

MEAT   SOUFFLE. 

1   coffee  cup  milk,  a  slice  of  onion, 

1  tablespoon   flour,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

2  eggs,  1  cup  of  diced  meat 

Several  kinds  may  be  mixed  together. 

Put  milk  and  onion  in  double  boiler  to  cook.  Blend  the 
flour  and  butter  and  stir  into  the  milk,  add  the  meat  and 
beaten  volks  of  the  e^trs  and  cook  a  few   minutes.     Then 


4°  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

add  the  beaten  whites,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-  dish  and 
bake  about  one-half  hour. 

RISSOLES.  • 

Remove  fat  and  chop  very  fine  any  kind  of  cold  meat. 
Season  and  add  half  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs.  Moisten 
with  gravy  or  beaten  egg.  Press  into  a  small  cup  and  turn 
out  on  buttered  tin.  Put  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of 
each  and  bake  in  hot  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
with  brown  or  tomato  sauce. 

SMOTHERED     BEEF. 

Chop  the  tough  ends  of  the  beefsteak  and  put  in  the  bak- 
ing pan  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  to  each  pound  of  meat, 
add  salt  and  a  little  onion  juice  and  pepper.  Cover  with 
another  pan.  Put  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT,  OYSTER,  MEAT  OR  VEGE- 
TABLE PATTIES. 

Cut  oblong  cavity  in  top  of  biscuit,  remove  top  carefully 
and  all  inside  shreds,  forming  a  shell.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  put  small  pieces  of  butter  in  bottom,  and  fill 
the  shell  with  drained,  picked  and  washed  oysters.  Season 
with  additional  salt  and  pepper.  Replace  top  of  biscuit 
over  oysters,  then  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Place  in  a  covered 
pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Pour  oyster  liquor  or 
cream  sauce  over  it.  Shell  fish,  vegetables,  or  meats  may 
also  be  used. 

SCOTCH  WOODCOCK. 

Boil  (very  gently)  5  eggs  for  1  hour,  shell  and  chop  fine. 
In  a  saucepan  melt  1  heaping  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour.  When  mixed  add  slowly  1  cup  milk 
and  stir  till  smooth  and  thick.  Add  J/i  teaspoon  salt,  34 
teaspoonful  of  paprika  and  the  chopped  eggs.  Simmer  five 
minutes.  Spread  on  slices  of  hot  buttered  toast  and  serve 
at  once. 


LEFT-OVERS.  4 1 

SCALLOPED  HAM  AND  MACARONI. 

Prepare  a  white  sauce  as  in  the  preceding  recipe.  Cut  i 
pint  of  cold  boiled  macaroni  in  inch  lengths  and  chop  finely 
i  cup  boiled  ham.  In  a  buttered  baking  dish  put  alternate 
layers  of  macaroni,  ham  and  sauce.  Stir  i  tablespoonful 
melted  butter  into  i  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  spread  over  the 
top  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

DELICIOUS   BREAKFAST  DISH. 

Prepared  in  the  following  way,  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit 
are  hard  to  surpass  as  a  breakfast  dish :  Crisp  carefully  in 
the  oven,  pour  over  them  just  enough  boiling  milk  to 
thoroughly  soften  the  shreds,  lightly  cover  with  Karo  Corn 
Syrup,  and  serve  with  good  cream. 

ESCALLOPED    BEEF. 

i  cup   or   more   of   meat,  I  cup  moist  bread, 
part    of    an    onion    or    i  crumbs, 

small  one,  i  cup  macaroni, 

About  i  cup  pan  gravy  or  i     tablespoon  butter, 

part  tomato,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

The  remains  of  roast,  steaks  or  any  cold  boiled  or  stewed 
meat  may  be  used  for  this.  Put  it  over  the  fire  to  cook 
with  some  water;  simmer  gently  till  tender;  make  gravy  of 
the  water  or  use  cold  gravy;  improves  flavor  to  add  some 
tomato.  Have  about  half  as  much  sauce  as  beef  and  maca- 
roni. Put  in  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  and  season. 
Pour  sauce  over  all,  mix  the  bread  crumbs  and  butter  to- 
gether over  fire  till  butter  is  melted  and  thoroughly  mixed; 
put  this  over  top  and  bake  till  crumbs  are  thoroughly  brown 
and  sauce  bubbles  up  around  the  edges;  allow  15  or  20 
minutes  for  this.  The  crumbs  may  be  omitted  and  a 
covering  of  mashed  potatoes  put  over;  then  brush  with 
milk  or  butter  and  bake  until  brown. 


42  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

MEAT   BALLS. 

Take  any  bits  of  cold  meat,  add  one  small  onion  chopped 
fine.  Mix  with  one  egg  a  few  bread  crumbs  and  a  spoonful 
of  flour.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  moisten  with  a 
little  water  or  cold  gravy.  Make  into  small  balls.  Roll  in 
flour  and  fry  brown. 

MEAT    HASH. 

Cold  meat,  Cracker  crumbs. 

1-3  as  much  mashed  pota-         Yi    small  onion  (grated), 

toes,  Butter, 

%   as  much  tomatoes,  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Put  any  kind  of  cold  meat  through  the  meat  chopper,  add 
potatoes,  tomatoes,  onion,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Line  a  baking  pan  with  cracker  crumbs,  add  the  prepared 
meat,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs,  place  lumps  of  butter  on 
top  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

BEEFSTEAK    PIE. 

1   lb.  round  steak,  1    pint  milk, 

1   cup  flour,  1   egg,  salt  and  pepper. 

•Cut  steak  into  dice.  Beat  egg  very  light,  add  milk  to  it 
and  half  a  teaspoon  salt.  Pour  upon  the  flour  gradually, 
beating  very  light  and  smooth.  Butter  a  two-quart  dish, 
and  in  it  put  the  meat.  Season  well  and  pour  over  it  the 
batter.  Bake  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  hot. 
Mutton  or  lamb  can  be  used  instead  of  beefsteak. 

CHICKEN   A   LA  CREOLE. 

Cook  2  tablespoons  chopped  onions  and  4  tablespoons 
chopped  green  peppers  in  3  tablespoons  butter  for  five 
minutes.  Add  1-3  cup  flour,  2  cups  chicken  stock  and  I 
cup  tomatoes.  When  hot  add  2  cups  cooked  chicken 
chopped.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  plain  or  on 
toast. 


LEFT-OVERS. 


MOCK    OYSTERS. 


43 


Cut  veal  cutlets  into  pieces  size  of  an  oyster,  dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

BEEF  PIE. 

Cut  either  roast  beef  or  beef  steak  into  small  pieces.  Line 
the  sides  of  a  deep  dish  with  biscuit  dough  rolled  thin.  Put 
a  layer  of  the  meat  in  the  dish,  then  a  few  slices  of  cold  pota- 
toes, salt  and  pepper  and  some  bits  of  butter  and  a  litle  cold 
gravy  if  you  have  any.  Continue  in  this  way  until  your 
dish  is  nearly  full,  then  cover  with  the  biscuit  dough  and  cut 
a  slit  in  the  top.     Bake  about  a  half  hour. 

PRUNE  TOAST. 

Soak  Yz  lb.  of  choice  prunes  over  night  in  water  to  cover. 
Cook  until  very  tender,  remove  the  stones,  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  1-3  cup  sugar,  juice  of  ^2  lemon,  and  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  hot  water  if  needed.  Cook  until  the  sugar  is  melted. 
Cut  thick  slices  of  stale  bread  in  rounds  and  fry  to  a  golden 
brown,  first  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other  in  2  tablespoons 
of  hot  butter.  Turn  the  prunes  upon  the  bread  and  top  with 
a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream.     Serve  at  once. 

SAVORY  TOAST  (FOR  LUNCHEON  OR  SUPPER). 

Cook  1  teaspoon  chopped  onion  and  half  a  bay  leaf  in  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  beat  4  eggs  slightly  and  scramble. 
When  set  a  little,  add  Y/\  lb.  of  cheese,  diced,  and  season  with 
salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Stir  until  the  cheese  is 
melted  and  serve  on  toast. 

MARMALADE  TOAST   (SUPPER). 

Beat  1  egg  in  a  shallow  dish,  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Soak  6  slices  of  stale  bread 
in  the  custard,  drain  them  and  brown  on  each  side  on  a  well 


44  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 

buttered  griddle.    Spread  them  with  orange  marmalade  and 
pile  them  lightly  on  a  dish.     Serve  immediately. 

EGG  GEMS. 

Mix  equal  parts  of  bread  crumbs  and  chopped  meat,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  with  a  little  broth;  put  in 
buttered  gem  pans,  and  put  an  egg  on  each,  and  bake  eight 
minutes  with  a  few  cracker  crumbs  sprinkled  on  top. 


VEGETABLES.  45 


VEGETABLES. 


SARATOGA   POTATOES. 

Slice  the  potatoes  very  thin,  letting  them  stand  in  cold 
water  an  hour  or  until  ready  to  fry.  Spread  the  slices  on  a 
soft  towel  and  pat  dry.  Put  a  handful  in  a  frying  basket  and 
fry  in  very  hot  fat.  When  they  are  a  light  brown  turn  them 
on  a  piece  of  paper  to  drain  and  dust  them  with  salt  and 
pepper  while  hot. 

POTATO   CROQUETTES. 

Take  2  cnps  cold  mashed  potato  (or  more), 
2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter  (melted), 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Beat  the  whites  o  f  the  eggs,  then  work  all  together 
thoroughly.  Make  it  into  small  rolls,  then  dip  them  in  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  roll  them  in  flour,  lay  them  in  a 
frying  basket  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

FRENCH   FRIED    POTATOES. 

Pare  small  uncooked  potatoes.  Divide  them  in  halves 
and  each  half  in  three  or  four  pieces,  lengthwise.  Put  in 
frying  basket,  and  cook  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain  on  brown  paper  and  dredge  with  salt.  Serve  hot  with 
chops  or  beef  steak. 

SCALLOPPED   POTATOES   NO.  1. 

Slice  rawT  potatoes  thin  into  a  well  buttered  dish.  Pour 
enough  rich  milk  over  them  to  cover  them  nicely,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter  and  sprinkle  in  a  very  little 
flour.  Bake  slowly  covering  the  dish  until  twenty  minutes 
before  serving,  let  them  color  a  light  brown. 


46  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

HASHED  POTATOES  (BAKED). 

Dice  5  or  6  potatoes.  Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  moisten  with  milk.  Put  into  a  dish  \\ith  bits  of  butter 
on  top  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 

SCALLOPED    POTATOES    NO.  2. 

Prepare  as  receipt  No.  1  using"  alternate  layers  of  raw 
onions  and  potatoes. 

POTATO   ROLLS. 

3  cups  potatoes  (mashed),  Large  piece  of  butter, 

2  eggs,    (well    beaten),        1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
y2  cup  sweet  milk,  A  little  pepper  and  salt. 

Beat  all  well  together  and  bake  in  hot  gem  pans. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS. 

2  eggs,  2  large  teaspoons  baking 

y2    cup  sweet  milk,  powder, 

Pinch  of  salt.  Flour, 

Potatoes. 
Mix  the  dumplings,  using  flour  enough  to  make  a  very 
stiff  batter.     Peel  and  cook  small   potatoes  or  large  ones 
cut  in  quarters   in   enough   water  to  cover  them,  seasoned 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Ten  minutes  before  they  are  done  drop  the  dough  from 
the  spoon  into  them.  Cover  them  closely  so  no  steam  will 
escape  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Serve  the  gravy  with  the 
potatoes  and  dumplings.  The  bone  or  the  tough  end  of  a 
beef  steak  cooked  with  the  potatoes  is  an  improvement. 

POTATO    CAKES. 

Form  cold  mashed  potatoes  into  cakes  about  one-half  inch 
thick,  arrange  on  buttered  baking  pan,  putting  a  small  piece 
of  butter  on  top  of  each.  Rake  on  a  grate  in  hot  oven  until 
slightly  brown. 


VEGETABLES.  47 

LYONNAISE    POTATOES. 

2  cups  boiled  potatoes,  i  teaspoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon     m  inced          2  tablespoons  chopped 
onion,  parsley, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  Pinch  of  pepper. 

Cut  potatoes  into  cubes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  brown  the  onion  in  it  delicate- 
ly. Add  the  potatoes,  stir  with  a  fork  until  they  have  ab- 
sorbed all  the  fat.     Add  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

CHEESE   POTATOES. 

Boil  six  or  seven  good-sized  potatoes ;  let  them  cool ;  then 
chip  in  small  pieces.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  one  of  flour ;  stir  thoroughly 
until  free  from  lumps;  add  one  cup  of  cold  milk  and  stir 
constantly  until  thick  and  smooth.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Line  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  a  layer  of 
potatoes ;  pour  some  of  the  sauce  over,  then  sprinkle  grated 
cheese  over  each  layer;  continue  this  until  the  dish  is  full, 
having  the  grated  cheese  on  top  and  a  few  pieces  of  butter. 
Bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

POTATO  CROWN. 

2  cups  cold  mashed  pota-  1  cup  milk, 

toes,  2  eggs  (well  beaten), 

2  tablespoons      melted         Salt  and  pepper, 
butter, 
Beat  all  together  thoroughly ;  butter  a  baking  dish  well 
and  sprinkle  it  with  bread  crumbs.     Put  in  the  mixture  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  a  nice  brown.     Turn  out  on  a 
platter  and  arrange  chops  against  it. 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Select  nice  smooth  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Bake  them 
and  when  well  done  cut  oft"  the  tops  and  carefully  scrape 
out  the  inside.  Mash  the  potatoes  and  season  with  a  little 


48  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

cream  or  milk,  butter  and  salt.  Beat  well  and  return  it  to 
the  skins.  Set  the  potatoes  upon  end  in  a  dish  and  put 
them  in  the  oven  to  heat  but  do  not  brown. 

CREAMED    POTATOES. 

2  cups  cold  potatoes,  I  tablespoon    butter, 

i  teaspoon  salt,  pepper, 

i  cup  milk, 
Heat   milk,  add  the   potatoes,   cut  into  cubes,  stir  while 
cooking  until  they  have  absorbed  nearly  all  the  milk,  add 
seasoning,  stir  thoroughly  and  serve. 

FRIED    WHOLE    POTATOES. 

Peel,  steam  or  boil  white  potatoes  until  nearly  done ;  take 
from  the  lire  and  drain  ;  beat  one  egg  and  dip  the  whole  po- 
tatoes into  it,  then  in  bread  crumbs ;  drop  into  boiling  lard 
and  brown,  salt  the  potatoes  and  serve  hot. 

SCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES. 
Wash  4  or  5  large,  sweet  potatoes  and  put  them  on  to 
boil.  When  done,  peel  and  slice  lengthwise,  put  a  layer  in 
the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking  dish,  cover  with  bits  of  butter 
and  sugar,  and  a  few  bread  crumbs,  then  add  layer  after 
layer  of  potatoes,  butter  and  sugar  until  dish  is  full.  Put 
butter  and  sugar  on  top  and  ?et  in  the  oven  until  brown. 

SWEET  POTATOES   BAKED   IN    SYRUP. 

Boil  sweet  potatoes,  when  cold  cut  in  thick  slices,  put  into 
buttered  baking  dish,  pour  over  a  syrup  made  of  x/2  cup  of 
sugar,  34  CUP  water  (boiled  down  a  little),  baste  with  syrup 
while  baking.  Bake  in  very  hot  oven  until  brown  over  the 
top.     Put  bits  of  butter  on  top  before  baking. 

TO    BOIL   SWEET    CORN. 

It  should  be  cooked  as  soon  as  possible,  as  it  will  soon 
lose  its  sweetness.  Husk,  silk,  boil  rapidly  ten  minutes 
(some  say  five).     To  eat  score  every  row  with  a  sharp  knife,        , 


VEGETABLES.  49 

spread  lightly  with  butter,  dust  with  salt.  It  may  now  be 
eaten  by  pressing  out  the  center  of  the  grains,  leaving  the 
hull  on  the  cob.     The  hull  is  the  only  indigestible  part. 

ESCALLOPED    CORN. 

Take  six  ears  of  corn  and  cut  the  corn  off.  Place  a  layer 
of  corn  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  add  the  corn  and  crumbs., 
with  seasoning,  alternately  until  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over 
enough  milk  so  that  it  covers  the  top;  bake. 

CORN   FRITTERS   NO.  i. 

3  eggs,  i  teaspoon  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  flour.  Salt  and  pepper, 
iy2   pts.  corn  (grated), 

Drop  on  hot  griddle. 

CORN  FRITTERS    NO.  2. 

3  ears  corn  scraped,  1   egg, 

1   cup  cracker  crumbs,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Drop  from  a  spoon  into  hot  fat. 

CORN   FRITTERS   NO.    3. 

One  pint  of  raw,  scraped,  tender,  sweet  corn,  one  egg, 
half  a  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a 
little  salt,  floui   to  fry  nicely. 

BAKED    CORN. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  into  a  baking  dish,  add  a  tea- 
spoon sugar,  a  little  salt,  then  add  milk  to  cover  the  corn. 
Bake  about  one-half  hour.  I  think  no  one  will  want  to  eat 
corn  on  the  cob  afttr  trying  this  baked  corn. 

ESCALLOPED    TOMATOES. 

Pare  and  slice  them  ;  alternate  layers  with  bread  crumbs 
adding  pepper,  salt,  butter  and  sugar;  finish  with  crumbs, 
bits  of  butter  and  a  little  sugar  on  top  and  bake. 


50  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

SCALLOPED   TOMATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  a  quart  of  ripe  tomatoes,  break  in  small 
pieces  an  equal  measure  of  stale  bread,  and  make  a  pint  of 
white  sauce.  Put  these  ingredients  in  layers  into  a  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  on  the  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  of  granulated 
sugar.  Over  the  top  of  the  dish  dust  a  layer  of  fine  crumbs, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and 
cook  in  the  oven  for  one-half  an  hour  or  until  nicely 
browned.     Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked. 

BAKED    TOMATOES. 

Scald,  peel  and  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  tomatoes, 
leaving  about  two-thirds  of  each  tomato.  Place  them,  cut 
side  down,  on  slices  of  buttered  bread  of  fitting  size. 
Arrange  on  a  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and 
a  little  sugar  each  tomato ;  bake  half  an  hour. 

TOMATO   RICE. 

One  pint  of  tomatoes,  canned  or  raw,  y2  cup  of  rice,  1 
cup  of  water,  small  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  red 
pepper  if  you  prefer;  cook  one  hour. 

STEWED    MACARONI. 

Cook  1-3  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  a  pint  of  clear  beef 
soup.  Cook  it  gently  for  fifteen  minutes,  adding  a  little  salt. 
Take  up  the  macaroni  put  it  on  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served.  Sprinkle  it  thickly  with  grated  cheese.  Pour  over 
it  a  pint  of  tomato  sauce  and  serve. 

MELON    CROQUETTES. 

Cut  small  canteloupes  in  eighths  lengthwise,  remove  rind 
and  seeds,  sprinkle  with  salt,  roll  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  in  place  of 
a  vegetable,  01  as  an  entree  with  lemon  sauce. 


VEGETABLES.  5 1 

FRIED   CAULIFLOWER. 

Wash  and  cut  the  cauliflower  into  sections,  cook  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  until  tender,  but  not  broken,  drain 
thoroughly,  dip  each  floweret  into  beaten  egg,  then  into 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  soak  the  head  in  cold  salted 
water  for  an  hour  with  the  flower  side  down,  drop  in  a  kettle 
of  boiling  salted  water,  boil  rapidly  a  moment,  then  let  it 
simmer  until  done.     Serve  with  a  cream  sauce. 

LENTILS. 

Wash  the  lentils  and  coak  them  over  night,  next  morning 
drain  off  the  water  and  cover  them  with  fresh  cold  water, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  then  simmer  gently  for  about 
an  hour. 

CREAMED  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  AND  CELERY. 

1  qt.  Brussels  Sprouts,  White  sauce  No.  2. 

1  bunch     celery     cut     in 
cubes, 

Boil  celery  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Boil 
Brussels  sprouts  in  boiling  salted  water  (with  cover  off  to 
prevent  odor  in  cooking)  until  tender  about  ten  minutes. 

Make  white  sauce  no.  2  with  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  table- 
spoons flour  and  2  cups  hot  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  dash  pep- 
per. Drain  vegetables,  mix  together  lightly  with  fork  and 
reheat  in  white  sauce  or  pour  white  sauce  over  them. 

BRUSSELS   SPROUTS. 

Wash  the  sprouts,  cut  off  the  outer  leaves,  put  them  into 
boiling  salted  water,  and  when  they  reach  the  boiling  poirt, 
push  them  back  where  they  will  simmer  for  about  thirty 
minutes,  or  until  the  sprouts  are  tender.  Drain  and  cover 
with  cream  sauce. 


52  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

CREAMED    CELERY. 

2  cups  celery,  i  tablespoon  flour, 

i  tablespoon  butter,  Salt,  pepper, 

i  cup  milk, 

Cut  into  small  pieces  the  celery.  Cook  in  salted  water 
until  tender  (about  twenty  minutes).  Heat  the  milk,  cream 
butter  and  flour  and  add  to  milk.  Drain  off  the  water  from 
celery  and  stir  celery  into  thickened  milk.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

PORK    AND    BEANS. 

Pick  over  carefully  a  quart  of  beans  and  let  them  soak 
over  night.  In  the  morning-  wash  and  drain  in  another 
water  and  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  half  teaspoon  of 
soda.  Let  them  come  to  a  boil  then  drain  again.  Cover 
with  cold  water  once  more  and  boil  them  fifteen  minutes,  or 
until  the  skin  of  the  beans  will  crack  when  taken  out  and 
blown  upon.  Drain  the  beans  again,  put  them  into  an  earth- 
en beanpot  adding  i  tablespoon  of  salt  and  3  tablespoons  of 
molasses,  cover  with  hot  water,  place  in  the  center  1  lb.  of 
salt  pork,  first  scalding  it  with  hot  water  and  scoring  the 
rind  across  the  top  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart  to  indicate 
where  the  slices  are  to  be  cut.  Place  the  pot  in  the  oven  and 
bake  six  hours  or  longer.  Keep  the  oven  a  moderate  heat, 
add  hot  water  from  the  teakettle  as  needed  on  account  of 
evaporation,  to  keep  the  beans  moist.  Keep  the  pot  covered 
so  the  beans  will  not  burn  on  top. 

BEANS  WITH   BROWN   SAUCE. 

Use  cold  boiled  lima  or  string  beans,  and  add  to  them  the 
following  sauce :  Put  into  a  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  each 
of  butter  and  finely  chopped  ham,  and  cook  for  three 
minutes.  Then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  mixing  well,  and 
gradually  pour  in  a  cupful  of  good,  rich  stock  or  gravy. 
Stir  until  smooth,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  few 


VEGETAGLES.  S3 

drops  of  onion  juice.     Cook  five  minutes  longer  and  pour 
over  slices  of  toast.     Good  supper  dish. 

BAKED   BEANS  WITH    TOMATO. 

Melt  3  tablespoons  butter,  add  T/2  onion  and  ^  green 
pepper  (from  which  seeds  have  been  removed)  finely 
chopped,  and  cook  three  minutes.  Add  i  cup  tomato 
(thick),  and  1^2  cups  cold  baked  beans,  simmer  till  heated 
and  well  thickened.     Serve  with  brown  bread  toast. 

BAKED    ONIONS. 

Peel  large  onions,  boil  one  hour  in  plenty  of  water., 
slightly  salted.  Butter  a  shallow  dish,  place  onions  in  it, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  a  teaspoon  of  butter  in 
the  center  of  each  onion,  cover  lightly  with  crumbs,  bake 
slowly  one  hour.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

BUTTERED   ONIONS. 

Boil  the  onions  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  off  the  water, 
and  add  more  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt,  boil  until  ten- 
der.    Drain  and  dress  with  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter. 

FRIED    SPANISH    ONIONS. 

Cut  onions  in  thin  slices  and  lay  in  milk  for  a  few  minutes. 
Roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE   CROQUETTES. 

Boil  one  cup  of  rice.  When  thoroughly  cooked  add  1  pint 
of  milk  and  cook  until  the  rice  has  absorbed  the  milk;  add 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  pepper  and  juice  of  one  small 
onion  and  the  yolk  of  one  small  egg.  When  cool,  form  in 
balls,  dip  in  the  beaten  white  of  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  in  deep,  hot  fat.     Serve  with  peas. 

AS  RICE  IS  COOKED  IN  THE  SOUTH. 

To  y2  pt.  of  rice  add  il/2  qts.  of  cold  water.  Use  hot 
water  in  the  lower  part  of  the  double  boiler,  and  boil  about 


54  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

three  hours.     Proportioned  in  this  way,  all  the  water  will 
be  taken  up  by  the  rice. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

x/z  cup  cooked  rice,  i   pt.  of  milk, 

2  eggs,  Grated  lemon  rind, 

i   talbespoon   melted  but-  I   teaspoon  sugar, 

ter,  A  little  salt. 

Fry  in  deep  lard. 

BOILED   RICE. 

4  cups  boiling  water,  2  teaspoons  salt, 

i  cup  rice, 
Wash  rice  thoroughly.     Put  in  boiling  salted  water,  boil 
ten   minutes  rapidly.     Then  put  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
until  tender    drain  and  dry  carefully.     Serve  hot,  or  place 
in  wet  moulds  and  serve  cold  with  apple  jelly. 

PARSNIP  BALLS. 

Boil  parsnips  in  salted  water  until  tender,  mash,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  add  a  little  flour  and  2  well- 
beaten  eggs.     Form  into  small  balls  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

PARSNIPS    FRIED    IN    BUTTER. 

Scrape  the  parsnips  and  boil  gently  forty-five  minutes. 
When  cold,  cut  in  long  slices  about  one-third  of  an  inch 
thick.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  melted  butter 
and  in  flour.     Fry  in  butter. 

BOILED    PARSNIPS   OR   CARROTS. 

Wash  and  scrape  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  till  ready  to 
cook.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  forty-five  minutes,  or 
until  soft.  Drain  off  water,  serve  hot  with  white  sauce,  or 
plain  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

FRIED    CABBAGE. 

Cut  cabbage  fine  as  for  slaw,  salt  and  pepper,  stir  well 
and  let  it  stand  five  minutes.     Have  an  iron  kettle  smoking 


VEGETABLES. 


55 


hot,  put  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  nice  fat,  then  the  cabbage, 
stir  until  tender.     To   half  a  cup  of  sweet   cream,   heated, 
well  stirred,  and  taken  from  the  stove,  add  three  tablespoon 
fuls  of  vinegar;  pour  this  over  the  cabbage  and  serve  im 
mediately.     W  hen  properly  done  it  is  excellent. 

BAKED    CABBAGE. 

A  quarter  of  a  good-sized  cabbage  ;  soak  in  cold  water, 
with  a  little  salt;  drain  and  boil  ten  minutes  in  slightly 
salted  water  uncovered  ;  drain  again,  and  add  a  sauce  made 
of  i  cup  milk,  i  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  I  of  flour ;  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper;  cover  with  crumbs  either  bread 
or  cracker ;  bake  one  hour. 

BAKED   BEETS. 

Beets  retain  their  delicate  flavor  and  sweetness  much 
better  baked  instead  of  boiled.  Turn  them  often  while 
baking  with  a  knife  as  a  fork  will  break  the  skin.  When 
done  remove  the  skin,  slice  and  serve  hot  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt. 

STUFFED   SQUASH. 

Cut  the  top  of  a  large  pattypan  squash  smoothly  across 
and  scrape  out  the  inside.  Mix  this  with  a  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs,  half  an  onion,  chopped  fine,  a  piece  of  butter  size 
of  walnut,  salt,  pepper  and  a  haif  cup  of  milk.  Fill  the 
squash  with  the  dressing,  sprinkle  grated  bread  over  the  top 
and  bake  slowly. 

BAKED   WINTER    SQUASH. 

Cut  the  squash  open.  Scrape  out  the  seeds,  cut  it  into 
rather  large  pieces  without  paring.  Put  it  into  a  dripping 
pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  tender.  When  done 
peel,  mash  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.     Serve  hot. 


S6  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

TO   STEW   CUCUMBERS. 

Peel  and  cut  the  cucumbers  into  eighths  lengthwise.  Put 
them  into  a  baking  pan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  stew  gently  for  twenty  minutes. 
Drain  and  arrange  on  squares  of  toasted  bread.  Put  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  and  2  of  flour  into  a  saucepan,  add  a 
pint  of  the  water  in  which  cucumbers  were  boiled,  and  stir 
constantly  until  you  have  a  smooth  sauce,  add  1  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  a  clash  of  pepper. 

STUFFED   PEPPERS. 

To  stuff  peppers  cut  off  stem,  remove  seeds  and  let  stand 
in  water  over  night.  For  the  filling  take  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  1  onion  chopped  fine,  2  cans  Campbell's  to- 
mato soup  or  1  pt.  tomato  puree,  1  teacup  of  bread  crumbs. 
This  is  enough  for  eight  peppers.  Fry  onion  in  butter,  add 
tomato  soup  and  bread  crumbs,  and  cook  till  it  thickens. 
Stuff  peppers  with  this  mixture  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

SAUCE. — Half  pint  of  cream  heated  with  rounded  tea- 
spoonful  flour.  Cook  in  double  boiler.  Just  before  send- 
ing to  the  table  pour  over  beaten  egg. 

FRIED   EGG   PLANT. 

1  large  egg-plant,  2  eggs, 

1  pt.  crumbs.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  the  plant  in  slices  one-third  of  an  inch  thick.  Pare 
these  and  cover  with  boiling  water  to  which  1  tablespoon  of 
salt  for  every  quart  of  water  has  been  added.  Let  stand 
one  hour.  Drain  and  slightly  pepper  the  slices.  Dip  in 
the  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  (or  in  batter  made  of 
egg,  flour  and  milk),  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  eight  or  ten 
minutes.     The  slices  will  be  soft  and  moist  when  done. 


VEGETABLES.  57 

PEAS  IN  TURNIP  CUPS. 

Steam  small,  white  turnips,  hollow  out  the  centers,  cut 
the  edges  in  points,  fill  with  peas  that  have  been  heated  in 
a  sauce  made  of 

2  tablespoons    of    butter,         2  tablespoons  flour, 
1  cup  milk,  y\  teaspoon  salt. 

Cooked  smooth. 

SPINACH. 

1  peck  spinach,  White   sauce,   made   of  4 

2  saltspoons  salt,  tablespoons     butter,     3 
4  eggs,  boiled  25  minutes.  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup 

milk. 

Cover  the  spinach  with  water,  and  boil,  adding  salt. 
Heat  halves  of  shredded  wheat  biscuit,  dipped  in  milk,  and 
put  in  a  buttered  pan  in  the  oven.  Serve  a  spoonful  of  the 
spinach  on  each  half  biscuit,  pour  the  cream  sauce  over  and 
u^e  eggs  cut  in  quarters  to  garnish. 

JELLIED   VEGETABLES. 

Soak  1  large  tablespoon  of  gelatine  in  *4  cup  cold  water. 
Dissolve  in  1  cup  boiling  water ;  add  J4  cup  each  of  sugar 
and  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  salt,  a 
few  whole  cloves.  AYhen  nearly  cold  strain,  then  add  1/2. 
can  of  small  green  refugee  beans,  which  have  been  drained 
and  cut  in  half,  also  2  or  3  pimentos,  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 
Put  in  mould  and  set  on  ice  to  harden.  Garnish  with  a 
border  of  Malaga  grapes  seeded  and  cut  in  halves. 


58  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 


MUSHROOMS. 


MUSHROOM    STEW. 

Skin  and  wash  one  pound  of  mushrooms,  add  I  pt.  water, 
salt,  pepper,  a  small  piece  of  butter.    Boil  slowly  20  minutes. 

MUSHROOMS    ON    TOAST. 

Fry  in  hot  butter  until  they  are  nice  and  tender.  Serve 
on  hot  buttered  toast. 

CREAMED   MUSHROOMS. 

Simmer  your  mushrooms  in  just  enough  milk  to  cover 
them  ;  season,  and  thicken  a  little ;  serve  on  toast. 

MUSHROOMS    WITH    CHICKEN    AND    EGGS. 

Cut  all  the  meat  from  a  cold  roast  or  boiled  chicken  into*- 
small  dice ;  add  four  or  five  mushrooms,  cut  in  rather  small 
pieces ;  put  them  in  chafing  dish  with  a  pint  of  rich  cream, 
leaving  out  a  gill  of  the  cre?m  to  dissolve  the  flour;  add  a 
generous  teaspoonful  of  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  let  the  whole  cook  about  ten  minutes.  In  the  mean- 
time beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  fresh  eggs  in  the  gill  of  cream  ; 
then  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  the  mix- 
ture till  the  flour  is  dissolved ;  then  stir  briskly  through 
the  chicken  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Last  of  all,  stir  in 
another  teaspoonful  of  butter,  lay  some  slices  of  toast  on  a 
hot  platter,  pour  the  chicken  over  it  and  serve  at  once.  Dec- 
orate the  dish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

TO    PICKLE    MUSHROOMS. 

Put  tender  parts  into  jars  with  peppercorns,  mustard 
seed  and  nasturtium  seeds.  Pour  over  cold  white  wine 
vinegar ;  cork  and  seal  hermetically. 


MUSHROOMS.  59 

MUSHROOMS    ON    TOAST. 

Fresh  meadow  mushrooms  are  best.  Wash  carefully, 
peel  (with  silver  knife),  divide  into  quarters,  and  throw  into 
cold  water  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  vinegar.  For 
each  pint  of  mushrooms  put  I  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
the  saucepan;  when  melted,  add  the  mushrooms,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  water,  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cover  and 
cook  slowly  ten  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Divide  i  pt.  of 
cream  in  two  portions ;  add  i  part  to  the  mushrooms,  and 
mingle  the  remainder  with  2  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ; 
add  to  the  mushrooms  and  stir  carefully,  until  very  hot. 
Serve  on  toasted  bread  or  biscuits. 


6o  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 


Bread,  Biscuits,  Muffins,  Etc. 


DELICIOUS   NUT   BREAD. 

2  cups  sweet  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda, 

2  cups  flour,  y2    cup  molasses, 

2  cups  graham  flour.  y2  cup  sugar. 

i  tablespoon  salt, 
Mix  well  and  add  i  cup  walnut  meats  cut,  not  too  fine. 

Let  it  stand  in  the  pan  twenty  minutes  before  baking  one 

hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

WHITE   BREAD. 

i   qt.  milk,  i   large  spoonful  shorten- 

2  qts.  flour,  ing, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  i  tablespoon  salt, 

i  yeast  cake. 
Sift  flour  into  a  large  pail  or  pan.  Mix  with  it  the 
shortening,  sugar,  and  salt.  Scald  the  milk.  When  it  be- 
comes lukewarm  dissolve  yeast  in  it  (y2  cake  is  sufficient  in 
summer).  Make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the  flour  and  pour 
milk  and  yeast  into  it.  Cover  tightly,  and  leave  in  a  warm 
place  over  night.  In  the  morning  stir  all  together,  adding 
flour  if  necessary  until  the  mixture  is  thick  enough  to 
mould.  Knead  for  a  few  minutes,  then  put  back  in  pail  and 
let  stand  until  light.  This  will  make  two  large  loaves  and 
pan  of  rolls,  or  three  loaves. 

WHITE   BREAD   OR  PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 
MADE    IN    ONE-HALF    DAY. 

i  pt.  milk,  i  tablespoon  butter, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  I  yeast  cake. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 


BREAD,    BISCUITS,    MUFFINS,    ETC.  6l 

Scald  the  milk,  add  butter  and  sugar  and  let  it  cool. 
Then  add  yeast  and  flour.  Knead  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 
Cover  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  very  light 
roll  out  one-half  inch  thick.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  spread 
with  soft  butter,  fold  over,  put  on  tin  and  let  rise  again  until 
very  light.     Bake  in  hot  oven  until  a  good  brown. 

RAISIN  BREAD. 

Make  a  sponge  at  night  of  I  qt.  of  milk  scalded  and 
cooled.  To  the  hot  milk  add  i  tablespoon  of  lard.  When 
cool  stir  in  a  beaten  egg,  %  lb.  of  sugar,  i  yeast  cake  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  batter.  In  the  morning  add  l 
tablespoonul  of  salt,  2  lbs.  seeded  raisins  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  dough.  When  raised,  mould  into  five  loaves. 
Sprinkle  cinnamon  on  top.  Let  it  become  very  light  and 
bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

QUICK   YEAST   ROLLS. 

Scald  1  pt.  of  milk,  add  to  it  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  ^4 
cup  butter.  When  lukewarm  crumble  into  the  mixture  1 
cake  of  compressed  yeast.  Stir  until  evenly  mixed  then  add 
2  well  beater  eggs  and  7  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Beat 
thoroughly,  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  become 
light.  Roll  into  a  sheet  and  cut  into  biscuit,  spread  a  piece 
of  butter  on  one  side  of  the  round,  fold  over  like  a  pocket- 
book  and  let  stand  until  light,  then  bake.  Or  the  rounds 
may  be  placed  close  together  in  a  buttered  pan,  first  dipping 
the  edges  in  melted  butter.  The  whole  work  can  be  done 
in  between  three  and  four  hours.  The  dough  is  too  soft  to 
knead. 

RUSK  NO.   1. 

1   egg,  hot  water, 

Yz    cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

}i     cup    milk    filled    with  der,  salt. 

Beat  the  egg,  add  sugar  and  the  milk  and  water.  Sift  a 
little  flour  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  add  to 


62  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

milk  and  egg,  then  salt.  Add  enough  more  sifted  flour  to 
roll  lightly  on  board,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  until  done  (20  to  30  minutes). 

RUSK   NO.  2. 

i   pt.  of  light  sponge,  1   cup  sugar, 

T/2    cup  melted  butter,  2  eggs, 

Flour  enough  to  make  like  bread  dough. 
When    light,    form    into    biscuits    and    set   to    rise    again. 

When  light  the  second  time,  bake,  and  just  before  they  are 

done,  brush  the  tops  with  sugar  and  milk. 

WAFFLES. 

1  cup  sour   milk,  Butter  size  of  an  egg, 

1  egg,  y2   teaspoon  soda, 
Flour  enough  to  make  smooth  batter. 

Delicious  eaten  with  strawberries  and  cream  or  peaches 
and  cream. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  BROWN  BREAD. 

2  cups     shredded     wheat         ]/2    cup  sour  milk, 
crumbs,  1   cup  corn  meal, 

y2   teaspoon  salt,  1   cup  molasses, 

1   teaspoon  soda,  i}i  cups  sweet  milk. 

Have  water  boiling  before  beginning  the  bread.  Mix 
crumbs,  corn  meal  and  salt,  add  the  molasses  in  which  has 
been  mixed  y  of  the  teaspoon  of  soda,  then  add  1^/4.  cups  of 
milk,  and  last  the  y2  cup  of  sour  milk  to  which  has  been 
added  the  remaining  y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  stirring  until  it 
foams.  Turn  into  a  buttered  brown  bread  mould,  cover 
tightly,  and  steam  three  hours. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS. 

1   qt.  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  tablespoon  lard,  I  teaspoon  salt. 


BREAD,    BISCUITS,    MUFFINS,    ETC.  63 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  sufficient  to  roll  out  on  board  with- 
out sticking.  Cut  with  biscuit  tin  and  bake  quickly  in  hot 
oven. 

VIENNA    ROLLS. 

1   tablespoon  lard,  ing  powder, 

1  qt.  flour  (unsifted),  Yi   teaspoon  salt. 

2  heaping  teaspoons  bak-        Milk  to  make  stiff  dough. 
Warm    the    lard    and    mix    with    the    other    ingredients. 

Knead  smoothly.  Roll  out  ]/2  inch  thick,  cut  with  round 
biscuit  cutter  and  fold  over,  wetting  with  a  little  milk  to 
make  it  stick. 

SOUR    MILK    BISCUIT. 

1   qt.  flour,  1   teaspoon  soda, 

1   teaspoon  salt,  4  tablespoons  butter. 

Sour  milk. 
Rub  butter  into  sifted  flour,  add  salt.  Make  a  hole  in 
the  center  of  the  flour.  Put  the  soda  in  a  cup  and  dissolve 
in  warm  water,  then  fill  cup  with  sour  milk  and  stir  well. 
Pour  this  in  the  center  of  the  flour  and  make  a  soft  dough 
using  more  milk  if  needed.  Turn  out  on  floured  board, 
roll  out  and  cut  with  small  cutter  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

\y2    lbs.  flour,  4  oz.  butter, 

*/2    cup  sweet  milk,  y2   cake  of  yeast, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  4  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light  and  add  them  last.   Set  to  rise 
md  bake  same  as  other  rolls. 

STEAMED    BROWN    BREAD    WITH    SQUASH. 

3  cups  yellow  corn  meal  1   cup  graham  flour, 
Ya    cup  molasses,  1  cup  squash, 

3  cups  of  milk,  either  sweet  or  sour, 

2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  hot  water. 
Steam  four  hours. 


64  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

GRAHAM   NUT   BREAD. 

i y2    cups  Graham,  i]/2    cups  sour  milk, 

}i    cup  molasses,  i"  cup  nuts  chopped  fine, 

2  teaspoons  soda,  A  little  salt. 

i }/2  cups  Hour, 
Bake  one  hour. 

BROWN    BREAD. 

2}/2    cups  yellow  meal,  2  cups  sweet  milk. 

1^2    cups  wheat  flour,  I   cup    sour   milk    with    i 

i  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 

1  cup  molasses,  in  it. 

Stir  all  together  until  smooth,  pour  into  a  well  greased 
5-lb.  lard  pail,  place  this  in  a  larger  pail  half  full  of  boiling 
water.     Cover  tightly  and  cook  in  a  steady  oven  three  hours. 

BROWN    BREAD. 

2  cups  flour,  3  cups  corn  meal, 
1/4    cups  sweet  milk,  iy2    cups  sour  milk, 
i  teaspoon       soda       (dis-          i   cup  molasses, 

solved  in  milk),  i   teaspoon  salt. 

Steam  three  hours. 

SALLY    LUNN. 

i  pt.  flour,  2  tablespoons   m  e  1  t  e  d 

i   cup  sugar,  butter, 

i  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tar- 

i   teaspoon  soda.  tar, 

i   egg, 
Bake  in  long  biscuit  tin  and  cut  in  squares  for  table. 

QUICK  WAFFLES    (FINE). 

i   qt.  sweet  milk,  y2   cup  melted  butter, 

6  eggs,  yolks  and  whites         5  cups  flour, 
beaten  separately. 


BREAD,    BISCUITS,    MUFFINS,    ETC.  65 

Just  before  baking"  add  4  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Beat 

well  for  a  few  minutes. 

HUCKLEBERRY    GEMS. 
Butter  size  of  egg,  1   teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

y2    cup  sugar,  l/2    teaspoon  soda, 

1   egg,  salt,  2  scant  cups  flour, 

1  cup  milk,  1   large  cup  berries, 
Bake  in  gem  pans. 

BROWNIES  OR  MUFFINS. 

i   pt.  bran,  1   cup  flour, 

2  cups  milk,  1   teaspoon  soda. 
4  teaspoons  molasses,                Pinch  salt. 

Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

SHREDDED   WHEAT    BISCUIT   WITH 
STRAWBERRIES. 

Prepare  berries  as  for  ordinary  serving.  Warm  biscuit 
in  oven  before  using.  Cut  or  crush  oblong  cavity  in  top  of 
biscuit  to  form  basket.  Fill  the  cavity  with  berries  and 
serve  with  cream  or  milk.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Peaches, 
blackberries,  raspberries,  blueberries,  pineapple,  bananas, 
and  other  fruit,  fresh  or  preserved,  can  be  served  with 
Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  in  the  same  way, 

CORN    CAKE. 

1   cup  sour  milk,  1   cup  corn  meal, 

1   cup   flour,  J4    cup  sugar,  \ 

1   tablespoon  melted  butter,  ]/2  teaspoon  salt, 

1   teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk. 

CORN  BREAD   NO.   I. 

1   cup  corn  meal,  1    cup  flour, 

1   cup  milk,  x   egg  (unbeaten), 

1     tablespoon    melted         J/2    cup  sugar, 

butter.  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

A  little  salt.  der. 

Bake  about  one-half  hour  in  thin  loaf. 


66  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

CORN  BREAD  NO.  2. 

\y2   cups  flour,  1  egg, 

1^2    cups  Indian  meal,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  cup  milk,  34    teaspoon   salt, 

2  teaspoons  baking  pow-  1   tablespoon    melted 
der,  butter. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together,  then  add  milk  and  egg,  and 
lastly  the  melted  butter.      Beat  thoroughly. 

EGG   CORN    CAKE. 

yi  cup   corn   meal,  %    cup  flour, 

l/2   cup  sour  milk,  l/2    cup  sweet  milk, 

1   tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

]/2  teaspoon    soda,  1  egg,  y2  teaspoon  salt. 

Heat  a  pan  and  melt  the  butter.  Beat  egg  and  add  all 
the  ingredients  except  the  sweet  milk,  add  melted  butter, 
put  batter  into  pan,  and  when  ready  to  put  in  oven,  pour 
the  sweet  milk  over  the  top.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in 
a  very  hot  oven. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

1   cup  yellow  meal,  1   cup  sweet  milk, 

1   cup  wheat  flour,  1   teaspoon    cream   tartar. 

1  cup  sugar,  y2    teaspoon  soda. 

2  eggs, 

SQUASH   MUFFINS. 

1   cup  sifted  squash,  1-3  cup  sugar, 

1-3   cup  of  butter,  1   cup  milk, 

y2   of  a  yeast  cake,  a  little  salt. 

Stir  as  stiff  as  you  can  with  a  spoon.    J^et  it  stand  over 

night,  and  in  the  morning  stir  down  and  drop  in  gem  pans 

and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

SHREDDED    WHEAT    BISCUIT    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

Warm  the  biscuit  in  the  oven  to  restore  crispness — don't 
burn,  pour  hot  milk  over  it,  dipping  the  milk  over  it  until 


BREAD,    BISCUITS,    MUFFINS,    ETC.  67 

the  shreds  are  swollen ;  then  pour  a  little  cream  over  the 
top  of  the  biscuit.  Or,  serve  with  cold  milk  or  cream,  ac- 
cording" to.  individual  taste. 

OAT    MEAL   BREAD. 

1  cup      Quaker       Rolled  1-3   cup  molasses, 

Oats,  1  qt.  flour, 

1  pt.  boiling  water,  Little  salt. 
t/o    yeast  cake, 

Pour  hot  water  over  the  oats  and  let  stand  one  hour,  or 
until  cool.  Stir  ingredients  together  and  let  rise  over  night. 
Then  add  enough  flour  to  roll  easily.     Bake  as  wheat  bread. 

GRAHAM   GEMS. 

2  tablespoons  molasses,  Salt, 

y2    tablespoon   butter,  1   teaspoon  soda, 

Beat  well  then  add 

1  cup  sour  milk  and  iy2  cups  graham  flour. 

.     CREAM    MUFFINS. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten,  y2    teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon        butter         ^4    pt.  milk, 

(melted),  y2    pt.  cream. 

Beat  all  together ;  then  add  1  pint  flour  sifted  and  stirred 
in  lightly.  Half  fill  the  gem  pans  and  bake  in  good  oven. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  NO.     1. 

2  cups  sour  milk,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda, 
y2    cup  sugar,  1   tablespoon    melted 

4  cups  graham  flour,  butter. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk.  Mix  all  ingredients  quick- 
ly, pour  into  bread  pan  and  let  it  stand  for  one  hour  before 
baking. 


68  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

GRAHAM   BREAD  NO.   2. 

2Y2,  cups  of  graham  flour,         l/2   cup  wheat  flour, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  2-3  cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoon  soda, 

Wet  soft  with  milk  and  water. 

GRAHAM   BREAD    (WITHOUT   YEAST). 

2  cups  graham  flour,  l/2    cup  molasses, 
t  cup  white  flour  sifted,  1  pt.  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  x/2   teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  graham  flour,  white  flour  and  soda  thoroughly.  Bake 
1  hour  in  slow  oven. 

GREEN   CORN   GRIDDLE   CAKES. 

2  cups  green  corn,  2  cups  milk, 
2  eggs,  (well  beaten).  Salt. 
Enough  flour  to  make  a  batter. 

Fry  on  hot  griddle  and  serve  hot. 

SOUR    MILK    GRIDDLE    CAKES. 

1  pt.  sour  milk,  1  tablespoon    melted 
1  egg,  butter, 

Flour,  V2    teaspoon  of  salt, 

]/2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water. 

The  batter  must  not  be  too  thick  ;  bake  on  hot  griddle. 

GRIDDLE   CAKES    (VERY    GOOD). 

t   cup  corn  meal,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

4  cups  graham  flour,  1   cake  compressed  yeast. 

Dissolve  yeast  in  lukewarm  water.  Mix  flour  and  meal 
with  enough  water  to  make  a  rather  thick  batter ;  add  yeast 
and  salt  and  let  stand  to  get  light.  Rake  till  brown  on  a 
hot  griddle. 


BREAD,    BISCUITS,    MUFFINS,    ETC.  69 

RAISED   BUCKWHEAT   CAKES. 

1   quart  warm  water,  i  cake  compressed  yeast, 

1  teaspoon  salt.  Buckwheat  flour. 

Dissolve  yeast,  add  it  to  the  water,  put  in  the  salt,  then 
stir  in  enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  good  batter. 
Cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  a  level  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  water  to 
remove  the  sour  taste  and  a  tablespoon  of  molasses  to 
make  them  brown  nicely  and  more  water  if  batter  is  not 
thin  enough ;  if  some  of  the  batter  is  left  over  it  can  be 
used  to  start  the  cakes  the  next  night. 

APPLE   FRITTERS. 

1  1-3  cups  flour,  1   egg, 

*4  teaspoon  salt,  2-3  cup  milk, 

il/>  teaspoons  baking  2  apples     cut     in     small 

powder,  pieces. 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together,  add  milk, 
then  egg  and  lastly  the  apple.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  in  hot 
fat.     Serve  with  sauce. 

SAUCE   FOR   FRITTERS. 

3  tablespoons  butter,  y$    cup  sugar, 

1  tablespoon     cornstarch,         \x/2  cups  boiling  water. 

2  tablespoons  brandy. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  then  add  cornstarch.  When 
well  creamed  add  boiling  water  and  let  the  sauce  come  to 
the  boiling  point  then  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  add 
brandy  or  other  seasoning. 

BREAD   FRITTERS. 

Drop  small  pieces  of  bread  dough  into  hot  fat  and  fry  a 
nice  In-own  ;  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  nutmeg  or  serve 
with  maple  syrup. 


7©  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

SPANISH    TOAST. 

i  cup  milk,  2  eggs  (beaten), 

i  tablespoon  flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt. 

Put  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  eggs,  salt  and  flour  and 
cook  till  smooth.  Dip  slices  of  bread  in  this  and  fry;  sift 
powdered  sugar  over  them  and  serve  hot. 

LOTTIE'S  SCRAPPLE. 

Stew  2  lbs.  of  fresh  pork  till  thoroughly  done.  Take  the 
meat  up  and  add  enough  water  to  the  liquor  in  the  kettle 
to  make  a  quart.  Remove  all  bone  from  the  meat  and  chop 
the  meat  or  put  it  through  the  meat  chopper.  Return  to 
the  kettle  adding  more  salt  if  necessary  also  sage  and  onion 
if  desired.  Add  corn  meal  that  has  been  mixed  with  a  little 
flour ;  sift  it  in  slowly  stirring  constantly  to  keep  it  from 
lumping.  When  thick  enough  so  that  the  spoon  will  stand 
let  it  cook  two  or  three  minutes.  Turn  into  a  pan  and  when 
wanted  slice  thin  and  fry  in  drippings. 


EGGS   AND   OMELETS.  7 1 


EGGS  AND  OMELETS. 


OMELET   WITHOUT   MILK. 

Use  any  number  of  eggs  desired.  Beat  whites  and  yolks 
separately.  To  the  yolks  add  salt  and  as  many  tablespoons 
full  of  waer  as  you  have  eggs  and  one  more.  Pour  this 
mixture  into  the  whites  and  beat  together  until  well  mixed. 
Put  in  hot  frying  pan  in  which  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  has 
been  melted.  Shake  over  the  fire  until  set,  then  place  in 
hot  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

BAKED  OMELET. 

4  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 

1  teacup  milk,  A  little  salt. 

Beat  all  together  except  whites  of  eggs,  and  put  into  a 
double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick  as  a  custard.  Then  add 
the  well-beaten  whites  and  beat  all  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a 
well-buttered  dish  until  a  light  brown. 

SHIRRED    EGGS. 

Set  into  the  oven  until  quite  hot,  a  common  white  dish, 
which  is  large  enough  to  hold  the  number  of  eggs  to  bt 
baked.  Melt  in  it  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Break  the  eggs 
carefully  in  a  saucer  one  at  a  time  and  slide  into  the  dish, 
sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and  let  them  cook  in 
a  hot  oven  until  white  is  set.  (  Much  nicer  than  fried  eggs 
with  ham  or  bacon). 

CORN   OMELET. 

Take  well-filled  ears  of  corn ;  cut  the  kernels  down 
through  the  center ;  with  the  back  of  a  knife  press  out  the 
pulp.  To  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  pulp  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  three  eggs  and  a  little  salt;  beat  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth ;  mix  with  the  corn  and  pour  into  a  hot  buttered 


72  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

pan;  cover  at  once  and  place  where  it  will   cook,  but   not 
burn.     When  set,  fold  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

.    SAUCE    FOR    EGGS. 

i  tablespoon  butter,  \A   cup  of  veal  or  chicken 

Yz    cup  cream.  broth, 

i   tablespoon  flour, 

Blend  butter  and  flour;  add  cream  and  broth;  cook  and 
stir  till  smooth  ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  onion  juice  and 
a  few  drops  of  lemon. 

TABASCO   EGGS. 

Butter,  Cream, 

3  tablespoons  milK,  Tabasco, 

Salt  and  pepper,  Eggs. 

Melt  a  ^ood-sized  piece  of  butter  in  the  milk,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  just  before  this  boils  add  cream  enough 
to  poach  the  number  of  eggs  you  wish  to  serve.  When  this 
boils,  break  in  each  egg,  and  when  they  are  set,  put  six  or 
seven  drops  of  tabasco  on  each  egg,  then  cover  the  cream 
over  them  until  they  are  done.  Serve  on  hot  buttered 
toast.     This  may  be  made  in  a  chafing  dish. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

Boil  eggs  hard,  remove  shells  carefully  and  drop  the  eggs 
in  hot  water  to  keep  warm  until  ready  to  use.  Mold  some 
boiled  rice  into  balls  and  place  in  plate  warmer,  make  a 
sauce  from  I  tablespoon  cornstarch,  a  small  Vi  teaspoon 
curry  powder,  diluted  with  a  little  cold  water  or  stock  and 
\l/i  cups  of  milk,  stirred  in  slowly,  cook  until  smooth,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt  and  strain  it.  Wipe  the  eggs 
dry,  roll  them  in  the  sauce  and  place  them  in  the  balls  of 
rice.  Pur  on  enough  sauce  to  moisten  rice  without  dis- 
coloring ed^es  around  eggs. 


EGGS    AND   OMELETS.  73 

EGGS   FOR   SUPPER. 

6  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  even  slices. 
Place   in   a   baking   dish   with   alternate   layers   of  grated 
cheese,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  a  little  salt  and  a  dash  of  nut- 
meg, cover  the  top  with   bread  crumbs  and  butter.     Bake 
for  fifteen  minutes,  brown  nicely  and  serve  very  hot. 

CHEESE   OMELET. 

Make  the  same  as  plain  omelet,  and  when  it  begins  to 
thicken,  sprinkle  in  three  tablespoons  grated  cheese.  Fold 
and  serve. 

HAM    OMELET. 

Make  the  same  as  plain  omelet,  and  add  three  tablespoons 
chopped  ham. 

SPANISH   EGGS. 

Cook  1  cup  of  rice  thirty  minutes  in  2  qts.  boiling  water 
to  which  has  been  added  t  tablespoon  salt.  Drain  through 
a  colander  and  add  i  tablespoon  of  butter.  Spread  very 
lightly  on  a  hot  platter.  On  the  rice  place  six  dropped 
eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON    EGGS. 

Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  lengthwise.  Arrange  them  on  a 
flat  dish  and  pour  over  them  a  giblet  sauce  made  from 
chicken  or  turkey  gravy. 

HAM   AND    EGGS. 

Chop  the  remains  of  fried  or  boiled  ham  very  fine.  Beat 
4  or  5  eggs,  add  1  tablespoon  milk  to  each  egg.  Melt  t 
tablespoon  butter  in  top  of  double  boiler,  add  eggs  and  milk 
and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  3  tablespoons  of  chopped 
ham.     Cook  until  thick  and  creamv. 


74  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

PLAIN   OMELET. 
4  eggs,  2  tablespoons  milk, 

I  teaspoon  salt,  I  tablespoon  butter. 

Beat  the  eggs  with  an  egg  beater  thoroughly.  Add  salt 
and  milk.  Have  frying  pan  very  hot.  Put  in  spoonful  oi 
butter  and  pour  in  the  beaten  egg.  Shake  vigorously  on 
the  hottest  part  of  stove  until  the  egg  begins  to  thicken, 
then  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  to  brown.  Run  the  knife  be- 
tween the  sides  of  the  omelet  and  the  pan,  fold  and  turn  on 
a  hot  dish.     Serve  immediately. 

PARSLEY   EGGS. 

Break  fresh  eggs  into  boiling  water,  slightly  salted. 
When  set,  remove  with  a  skimmer  and  place  on  slices  or 
rounds  of  buttered  toast.  Over  the  egg  and  toast  pour  the 
following  sauce :  To  one  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoon  butter  and 
one  of  flour,  mix  smoothly  together,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.      Boil  three  minutes  and  pour  over  the  eggs. 

EGGS  FOR  A  PICNIC. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard.  Cut  lengthwise.  Remove  the  yolk 
and  add  finely  chopped  ham,  lamb  or  chicken,  salt,  pepper 
and  olive  oil.  Replace  this  mixture  in  the  half  of  the  white, 
and  wrap  in  oiled  paper. 

BAKED    OMELET. 

Beat  two  eggs  lightly  and  stir  in  2  teaspoons  of  flour. 
with  about  j4  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  %  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Heat  a  teacupful  of  milk  and  in  it  put  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter.  Pour  the  milk  on  the  eggs,  stir 
quickly  and  pour  in  a  hot  buttered  dish;  set  in  a  quick  oven 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

EGG  TOAST. 

Boil  eggs  hard.  Chop  whites,  mix  minced  ham  with 
white  sauce  spread  on  rounds  of  toast.      Put  one  yolk  on 


EGGS   AND   OMELETS.  75 

each  slice  and  mix  chopped  whites  with   white  sauce   and 
pour  over  all. 

PEACH   OMELET. 

Make  an  omelet  as  usual  and  just  before  foldi.ig  it,  add  I 
cupful  of  sliced  peaches,  sugared  lightly.  Fold  the  omelet, 
slip  onto  a  hot  dish,  cut  four  slits  on  the  top,  into  which 
slip  marshmallows  dipped  in  brandy.  Pour  a  tablespoon 
of  brandy  over  the  top  and  apply  a  lighted  match.  This  is 
to  be  served  at  the  close  of  a  luncheon  or  for  dessert  at  an 
informal  dinner. 

FISH  OMELET. 

Boil  a  shad  roe  20  minutes  in  salted  water,  chop  it  fine 
and  add  it  to  a  cupful  of  any  kind  of  cold  fish  broken  fine. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  warm  in  a  cupful  of  cream 
sauce.  Make  plain  omelet  with  six  eggs.  When  ready  to 
fold,  spread  the  prepared  fish  in  it.  Roll  up,  dish,  and 
serve  immediately. 

BIRDS'  NESTS. 

Break  the  number  of  eggs  desired.  Beat  the  whites  till 
light  and  pour  into  a  di?h.  Make  places  for  the  yolks,  put 
them  in  gently.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  whites  are 
a  light  brown  and  the  yolks  set,  beat  a  little  salt  with  the 
whites. 

EGGS  POACHED   IN    MILK  WITH   GRATED 
CHEESE. 

Have  a  large  shallow  pan  which  you  can  put  over  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water.  Into  the  pan  put  one  cup  of  milk,  drop 
the  eggs  in  and  sprinkle  over  them  when  nearly  done,  1  tea- 
spoon of  grated  cheese,  salt  and  pepper.  Take  up  with 
large  spoon  and  serve  on  toast. 


76  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

SCRAMBLED   EGGS. 

6  raw  eggs  Salt  and  pepper. 

y2   cup  rich  cream, 

Beat  together  lightly,  and  put  in  a  well  buttered  flat 
saucepan  and  shake  over  the  fire  till  set.     Serve  very  hot. 

EMERGENCY   EGGS. 

Cut  slices  of  bread  about  an  inch  thick,  scoop  out  a  hollow 
in  the  center  of  each,  grate  some  cheese,  season  with  salt 
and  paprika,  moisten  with  milk  and  spread  on  bread.  Then 
turn  an  egg  into  each  piece  without  breaking  the  yolk,  dot 
with  butter  and  bake  until  white  is  set. 

EGG   OMELET. 

2  eggs,  8  tablespoons  milk, 

2  tablespoons  flour.  Little  salt. 

Stir  yolks  without  beating,  with  flour  and  milk.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  and  fold  into  the  yolks. 


CHEESE.  77 


CHEESE. 


WELSH  RAREBIT,  NO.  i. 

i   tablespoon     butter         i   teaspoon  cornstarch, 
melted,  y2    teaspoon   mixed   mus- 

y2   teaspoon  salt,  tard, 

Ya  cup  thin  cream,  -)4    cup  grated  cheese. 

Scant  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper. 

Stir  cornstarch  into  butter,  then  cook  all  together. 

WELSH  RAREBIT,  NO.  2. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  i  teaspoon  cornstarch. 

34    cup  milk,  T  j    lb.  cheese. 

Pinch  salt,  t   teaspoon     Heinz     mus- 

t  egg,  tard. 

Melt  butter  in  top  of  double  boiler,  add  corn  starch  and 
cook  until  smooth.  Add  mustard,  then  cheese  cut  rather 
thin,  and  milk.  Cook  until  cheese  is  melted,  and  then  add 
beaten  egg.     Serve  very  hot  on  slices  of  toast. 

VENETIAN   RAREBIT. 

1  pt.  tomato,  T.ittle  salt, 

y2    lb.  cheese,  Onion  juice, 

3  eggs,  Mustard. 
1   butter  ball. 

Can  be  cooked  in  chafing  dish.  Cook  tomato  until  hot, 
add  cheese  cut  fine.  Cook  until  »t  melts.  Add  the  eggs 
well  beaten,  the  butter,  salt,  onion  juice  and  mustard. 
Serve  on  saltines. 


78  SUNSHINE    CQOK    BOOK. 

BEAN    RAREBIT. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  y2   cup  milk, 

Salt  and  pepper,  \  cup  cheese  cut  in  cubes, 

i  cup  beans,  Slices  of  toast. 

Melt  butter,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  cup  of  cold  cooked 
beans  mashed  through  sieve.  M'x  thoroughly,  add  milk 
gradually.  Let  cook  until  blended  then  add  cheese  and 
stir  constantly  until  cheese  is  melted.  Serve  on  toast  with 
Worcestershire  sauce. 

CHEESE   TOAST. 

Cut  stale  bread  in  thin  slices  or  rounds,  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard  a  delicate  brown.  Dip  in  boiling  milk  and  cover 
thickly  with  grated  cheese.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  five  min- 
utes and  serve  hot. 

ESCALLOPED  CHEESE,  NO.  i. 

Boil  rice  and  put  it  in  a  baking  dish  with  layers  of  grated 
cheese.  Put  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  on  the  top  and  bits 
of  butter.     Bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

ESCALLOPED  CHEESE,  NO.  2. 

Grated  cheese,  Slices  of  stale  bread  but' 

1  egg,  tered, 

milk,  Salt    and    pepper. 

Butter  some  slices  of  stale  bread  and  cut  into  dice,  put 
a  layer  into  a  quart  baking  dish,  spread  with  a  thin  layer 
of  grated  cheese,  salt  and  pepper.  Continue  until  dish  is 
three-quarters  full.  Beat  egg  light  and  add  1  cup  milk. 
Pour  over  bread,  and  if  there  is  not  sufficient  to  cover,  add 
more  milk.     Bake  until  brown. 

CHEESE   CROQUETTES. 

3     tablespoons  butter,  iJ/2      cups     mild     cheese 

54    cup  flour,  grated, 

2-3    cup  milk,  Salt  and  pepper, 

yolks  of  2  eggs,  Few  grains  of  cayenne. 


CHEESE.  79 

Make  a  thick  white  sauce,  using-  butter,  flour  and  milk, 
add  yolks  of  eggs,  without  beating  and  stir  untr/  well  mixed 
then  add  cheese.  As  soon  as  grated  cheese  melts  remove 
from  fire  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne. 
Spread  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  cool,  turn  on  a  board,  cut  in 
small  squares  or  strips,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs 
again,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve 
for  a  cheese  course  or  a  luncheon  or  supper  dish. 

DREAM  CAKES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  stale  bread.  Spread  each  slice  with 
club  cheese  and  press  together  like  a  sandwich.  Fry  brown 
and  crisp  in  hot  butter.     Serve  immediately. 

BAKED   EGGS    AND    CHEESE. 

Put  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  in  a  shallow  bak- 
ing dish  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  grated  cheese ;  break  in 
the  eggs  carefully  so  as  to  keep  them  separate.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  ^nd  add  a  little  cream  or  milk  to 
moisten  the  cheese,  then  cover  with  another  layer  of  grated 
cheese.  Put  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes  or  till 
cheese  is  browned  and  serve. 

COTTAGE   CHEESE. 

Put  a  pan  of  sour  milk  on  the  range  where  it  is  not  too 
hot ;  let  it  scald  till  the  whey  rises  to  the  top  (be  careful  not 
to  let  it  boil  or  the  curd  will  become  tough).  Place  a  cheese 
cloth  over  a  sieve  and  pour  this  whey  and  curd  into  it  and 
let  it  drain  a  few  minutes,  then  gently  press  it  dry  with  the 
hands  and  while  it  is  still  warm  add  a  good  lump  of  butter 
and  salt  and  thoroughly  mix.  Then  add  enough  sweet 
cream  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  mashed  potato  and 
make  into  little  balls. 

CHEESE  BALLS. 

Whites     of     2     e   g  g   s  i   cup  grated  cheese, 

(beaten),  *4   CUP  grated  stale  bread. 
Pinch  of  cayenne  pepper 


80  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

Mix  all  together,  make  in  small  balls  and  fry  a  rich  brow  it 
in  deep  fat. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

i  cup  grated  cheese,  A  little  cayenne  pepper, 

3  tablespoons   m  e  1  t  e  d         2  tablespooons  cold  water, 
butter. 

Cream  cheese  and  butter  together,  add  flour  enough  to 
roll.  Cut  in  narrow  strips  and  bake. 

BAKED   MACARONI. 

Six  ozs.  macaroni,  1   pt.  of  milk, 

2  tablespoons  of  butter.  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 

4  ozs.  grated  or  chopped  %   teaspoon   soda, 
cheese, 

Break  macaroni  into  short  pieces,  drop  into  large  kettle 
of  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly  for  twenty  minutes,  drain 
and  throw  into  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes.  Put  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  melt,  add  the  flour  and  milk  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  boils.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  cheese  and  stir 
until  it  is  smooth,  then  the  pinch  of  soda.  Stir  the  maca- 
roni into  the  cheese  dressing,  put  in  a  baking  dish,  add  a  bit 
of  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  the  top,  place 
here  and  there  a  few  bits  of  butter  and  bake  a  few  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 

CHEESE    FONDU. 

1  cup  hot  milk,  1  cup  chopped  cheese, 

1   egg  (well  beaten),  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

1    cup  soft  bread  crumbs,  34   teaspoon  salt. 
1-8   teaspoon  pepper, 

Put  the  cheese  and  butter  into  the  hot  milk,  add  the  egg 
seasoning   and    crumbs.     Spread   on   crackers   or    toast   and 
bake  till  cheese  is  melted  and    the    top    slightly    browned, 
(about    fifteen   minutes). 


CHEESE.  3 1 

CHEESE    FILLING. 

2  cheeses  (cream  ioc),  x/i    cup  chopped   English 

1  tablespoon    melted  walnuts, 

buttter,  Small    pinch   of   salt   and 

34    cup  cream,  cayenne    pepper. 

Stir    the    cheese    with    spoon,    adding    cream    gradually; 

when   soft   and    creamy   add   butter,  salt   and  pepper,   then 

stir  in  the  nuts  chopped  very  tine.     This  hilling  is  fine  for 

teas  or  luncheons,  spread  on  wafers  or  butter  thins. 

CHEESE    SOUFFLE. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  3  eggs, 

y2    cup  milk,  Yz       teaspoon      prepared 

l/2     teaspoon  salt,  mustard, 

Y$    cup  grated  cheese,  A  little  cayenne. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 
Make  cream  sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  milk.     Add  cheese 
stirring    until   it    melts.     Add   beaten  yolks  and   seasoning. 
Set  away  to  cool.     Fold  in   whites  of  eggs  and  bake  in  a 
greased  dish  about  fifteen  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

BAKED    RICE   AND    CHEESE. 

1   cup  rice,  2  cups   thin   white   sauce 

)6.  cup  cracker  crumbs,  Cheese,    salt    and    pepper 

to  taste. 
Cook  rice  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  in  8  cups  boiling 
water.  Arrange  layers  of  rice  and  grated  cheese  in  a  bak- 
ing dish.  Moisten  with  the  white  sauce.  Cover  with  the 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until  light  brown.  For  the  sauce 
use  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour.  2  cups  hot 
milk,  J/2    teaspoon  salt. 

LUNCH  PASTRY. 
Roll  out  the  pieces  of  puff-paste  left  from  pies  and 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  Fold  the  paste  in  three  folds 
and  roll  out  again  and  sprinkle  with  more  cheese,  fold  and 
roll  as  before,  cutting  in  any  shape  desired.  Brush  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  and  bake.  Serve  on  a  hot  napkin.  Very  nice 
with  a  cup  of  coffee  for  lunch. 


82  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 


SANDWICHES. 


Butter  thin  slices  of  bread  and  sprinkle  a  thick  layer  or 
grated  cheese  on  them.  Press  two  slices  together  and  toast 
them  in  the  oven  or  fry  them  in  deep  fat.  They  are  ver^ 
nice  served  with  cream  sauce  poured  over  them. 

MARBLE  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  slices  of  white  and  brown  bread  each  one  half  inch 
thick,  butter  and  spread  with  Xeufchatel  cheese,  chopped 
stuffed  olives  may  be  added  it  liked.  Cut  away  the  crust 
and  arrange  in  piles  of  alternate  layers  of  first  white  then 
brown  bread  using  about  four  or  five  slices.  Put  a  weight 
on  each  pile  of  bread  for  a  few  minutes,  then  slice  them 
down  through  in  slices  a  half  inch  thick. 

TOASTED    SANDWICHES. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  bread  as  if  preparing  sandwiches, 
trim  off  the  crust,  toast  over  a  clear  fire  until  delicately 
browned.     Serve  hot. 

CHEESE   AND    CELERY    SANDWICHES. 

Whip  a  gill  of  cream  and  add  enough  freshly  grated 
cheese  to  make  a  stiff  paste,  spread  bread  with  this  and 
sprinkle  with  very  finely  minced  white  stalks  of  celery. 

CRACKER  AND   ANCHOVY   SANDWICHES. 

Toast  split  Boston  or  royal  milk  crackers,  butter  while 
hot  and  spread  with  anchovy  paste  ;  put  two  together. 

HAM    SANDWICHES. 

Chop  or  grind  the  meat,  fat  and  lean  together,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  mustard.  The  yolks  of  one  or  two 
boiled  eggs  mashed  and  the  whites  chopped  fine  are  a  nice 
addition.     Put  between  bread  or  crackers. 


SANDWICHES'.  83 

CHEESE    AND    EGG    SANDWICHES. 

One  cup  grated  cheese,  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs 
minced  fine  ;  rub  to  a  paste  with  a  little  butter,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  spread  between  rounds  of  bread  or 
crackers.     These  are  nice  made  of  Graham  bread. 

QUEEN    SANDWICHES. 

Mince  finely  2  parts  cooked  chicken  or  game  to  1  part 
cooked  tongue  and  1  part  cooked  mushrooms  or  truffles, 
add  seasoning  and  a  little  lemon  juice  and  spread  between 
thin  slices  of  bread. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Powder  and  rub  fine  the  hard  boiled  yolks  of  4  eggs,  chop 
the  whites  as  fine  as  possible,  mix  all  together  and  rub  to  a 
paste,  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a  little  salt 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.     Mix  and  spread. 

CRANBERRY   SANDWICHES. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  white  bread  and  spread  with  the  fol- 
lowing: Turn  a  glass  of  cranberry  jelly  into  a  bowl  and 
beat  with  a  silver  fork.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  minced  celery, 
a  cup  of  chopped  chicken,  add  a  little  orange  juice,  cover 
with  another  slice  of  bread,  cut  into  triangles,  arrange  on 
platter,  garnish  with  bunches  of  crisp  watercress. 

CHEESE   SANDWICHES. 

These  are  very  fine.  Chop  half  a  pound  of  cheese,  add 
1  tablespoonful  of  French  mustard,  and  work  this  to  a 
smooth  paste ;  spread  on  the  bread,  put  the  slices  together, 
and  cut  into  diamonds  or  long  narrow  strips. 

SANDWICHES. 

1.  Take  a  young  nasturtium  leaf,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
set  between  two  circular  pieces  of  bread  and  butter,  its  own 
size. 

2.  Spread  bread  and  butter  with  chopped  boiled  ham, 
seasoned  with  horse-radish. 


84  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

3.  Brown  bread  or  entire  wheat  bread,  liberally  spread 
with  butter  and  a  few  leaves  of  watercress. 

4.  Spread  thin  slices  of  white  bread  with  cream  cheese 
made  into  a  thin  paste  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

5.  Chop  an  equal  amount  of  raisins  and  English  walnuts 
fine,  moisten  with  cream  or  sherry  wine,  and  spread  between 
slices  of  graham  bread  well  buttered. 

6.  Spread  one  saltine  cracker  with  cream  cheese,  another 
with  orange  marmalade,  and  press  them  together  to  serve 
with  afternoon   tea. 

7.  Rub  a  cream  cheese  very  soft  with  chopped  watercress 
and  2  tablespoons  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  spread  it  upon 
white  bread,  buttered  and  cut  in  rounds. 

SARDINE    SANDWICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread.  Remove  the  sardines  carefully 
from  the  box,  split  them  open  and  take  out  the  bones,  cut 
oft"  the  heads  and  tails.  Place  halves  of  the  sardines  over 
one-half  the  slices  of  bread,  squeeze  lemon  juice  over  them 
and  press  together.     Cut  in  long,  narrow  pieces. 

DRIED  BEEF  SANDWICHES. 

Dried  beef  and  hard  boiled  eggs  make  appetizing  sand- 
wiches using  about  equal  parts.  Put  through  meat  chopper 
one  or  two  small  sweet  pickles.  Moisten  with  mayon- 
naise. 

SANDWICHES  A  LA  MOTOR. 

Shape  very  thin  slices  of  sandwich  bread  with  cake  cut- 
ter. Remove  portions  of  upper  layer  to  form  wheels. 
Spread  with  deviled  ham  or  tongue. 

CELERY    SALAD    SANDWICHES. 

4  eggs,  Yi  teaspoon  salt, 

1   head  celery.  Dash  pepper. 

1   cup  mayonnaise. 


SANDWICHES.  85 

Boil  eggs  hard  and  chop  them  very  tine,  take  the  white 
portion  of  celery,  chop  it  fine  and  mix  with  the  egg,  season, 
add  mayonnaise  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  white  bread. 

FILLINGS   FOR   SANDWICHES. 

1   cream  cheese,  1  small  bottle  stuffed  olives, 

A  little  cream  or  salad  dressing. 

Chop  the  olives  and  mix  with  the  cheese,  soften  with 
salad  dressing. 

Chopped  raisins  with  neufchatel  cheese. 

Chopped  lamb  with  mayonnaise. 

Chopped  pimolas  with  mayonnaise. 

Chopped  nuts  with  mayonnaise. 

Chopped  nuts  with  cream  cheese. 

Chopped  ham  with  mayonnaise. 

Chopped  hard  boiled  eggs  with  mayonnaise. 

Chopped  hard  boiled  eggs  and  English  walnuts  with 
dressing. 


86  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 


Salads  and  Salad  Dressings, 


POTATO    SALAD. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice  ;  use  one-half  as  much 
diced  celery  as  potato.  A  little  chopped  parsley  and  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice.  (An  easy  way  to  get  the  onion  juice 
is  to  rub  an  onion  over  a  grater  a  few  times  then  press  it 
tightly  to  the  grater  as  long  as  the  juice  will  drip,  then 
grate  again).  Mix  the  salad  lightly  and  just  before  serving 
marinate  with  boiled  dressing. 

GERMAN    POTATO    SALAD. 

6  potatoes,  i  egg, 

l/2   cup  vinegar,  2  tablespoons    of    melted 

A      little      finely      sliced  butter, 

onion,  Pepper  and  salt. 

Parsley,  celery  salt,  2  or  3  hard  boiled  eggs. 

1  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
Wash  and  boil  medium  sized  potatoes.  When  done 
drain  off  water  and  peel.  While  still  hot  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  celery  salt  mixed  with  onion.  Beat  egg  stiff, 
add  to  it  the  melted  butter,  then  drop  in  gradually  the 
vinegar  sweetened  with  the  sugar.  Pour  this  dressing  over 
the  potatoes  while  hot,  toss  lightly,  place  in  salad  bowl  and 
garnish  with  parsley  and  hard  boiled  eggs. 

POTATO  SALAD  WITH  FRENCH  DRESSING. 

4  cold  boiled  potatoes,  1  onion      chopped      very 

French   dressing,  parsley,  fine, 

Beet,  turnip,  carrot,  Capers,  olives. 

Cut  potatoes  into  dice,  mix  carefully  with  the  onions,  add 

the   dressing      Put  away   in   a  cold  place   for  one  or  two 

hours.     Sprinkle  with  the  chopped  parsley.     The  dish  may 


SALADS    AND   SALAD    DRESSINGS.  87 

be  garnished  with  pickled  beets,  turnips  and  carrots  cut  in 
fancy  shapes,  capers  or  olives. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

2  lbs.  malaga  grapes,  y2   lb.  dates, 

2  oranges,  i  grape  fruit, 

2  apples,  4  bananas, 

y2  lb.  of  figs,  y2    cup  chopped  nuts. 
Remove  seeds  and  cut  fruit  in  small  pieces.     Serve  with 
mayonnaise. 

SHRIMP   SALAD. 

i   can  shrimps,  i    head   lettuce, 

2  tablespoons  capers. 
Turn  shrimps  from  can.  remove  the  black  ligament. 
Dress  with  French  dressing  and  set  on  ice  to  cool.  Crisp 
the  inside  leaves  of  lettuce,  arrange  in  salad  bowl,  turn 
the  shrimps  into  the  center.  Pour  mayonnaise  over  and 
sprinkle  with  the  capers. 

CHEERY    SALAD. 

Stone  Yi  lb  of  cherries.  Place  a  meat  from  hazel  nut  in 
each  cherry.  Prepare  mayonnaise  dressing  (using  lemon 
juice  instead  of  vir-egar).  Arrange  cherries  on  lettuce 
leaves  and,  just  before  serving,  pour  over  the  mayonnaise. 

MOCK   CHICKEN   SALAD. 

2  cups  cold  pork  or  veal,  3  hard  boiled  eggs, 

1  cup  diced  celery,  Mayonnaise. 

Trim  cold  boiled  or  roasted  pork  free  from  fat,  then  chop 
or  cut  into  dice.  To  two  cups  of  meat  add  the  eggs  chopped 
fine,  and  the  celery.  Toss  lightly  until  mixed.  Dress  with 
mayonnaise  and  garnish  with  fringed  celery. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Use  twice  as  much  diced  celery  as  chicken.  Marinate 
with  boiled   dressing.     Arrange  a  border  of  lettuce   leaves 


88  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

on  a  salad  dish  and  mound  the  salad  in  the  center.  Put 
spoonfuls  of  mayonnaise  over  it  and  garnish  with  olives 
and  pickled  beets  cut  in  fancy  shapes  or  with  parsley  and 
quartered  hard  boiled  eggs. 

FISH    SALAD. 

Free  salmon  or  any  other  boiled  or  baked  fish  of  skin 
and  bones.  Arrange  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  with 
mayonnaise  or  cream  salad  dressing.  If  desired  add  l  cup 
cold  peas.     Garnish  with  stuffed  olives. 

EGG    AND    BANANA    SALAD. 

Boil  enough  eggs  to  provide  two  eggs  for  each  person. 
When  hard,  cool  and  take  off  shell  and  cut  in  slices.  Com- 
bine these  with  sliced  banana  and  put  on  lettuce  with 
either  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

FRUIT    SALAD. 

Shredded  pineapple.  Oranges, 

Bananas,  Lettuce. 

White  Grapes,  Delicate  dressing. 

Shred  the  pineapple,  slice  the  bananas,  and  cut  the 
oranges  in  small  pieces.  Cut  grapes,  take  off  skin  and  take 
out  seeds.  Place  all  on  lettuce  and  cover  with  delicate 
dressing  or  mayonnaise. 

APPLE    AND    NUT    SALAD. 

Pare,  core  and  slice  thin  3  cups  of  apples  ;  mix  with  t  cup 
of  chopped  nuts;  season  with  sugar  and  salt  to  taste:  mix 
with  boiled  salad  dressing. 

FRUIT   SALAD. 

Slice  [  pineapple,  peel  4  oranges,  dividing  them  in  sec- 
tions, add  4  sliced  bananas  and  a  cup  of  strawberries,  cover 


SALADS    AND   SALAD    DRESSINGS.  89 

with  French  dressing  and  serve  in  a  glass  bowl  lined  with 
crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Serve  with  macaroons  as  follows:  Press  together  two 
very  fresh  macaroons  with  a  layer  of  cream  cheese  between. 

ROYAL   SALAD. 

Cold  cooked  potatoes,  String  beans,  beets, 

Olives  and  capers,  Celery,  lettuce,  tomatoes, 

Mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

Take  eqnal  quantities  of  the  vegetables,  pnt  them  in  a 
salad  bowl,  add  olives  and  capers.  Pour  over  a  mayonnaise 
or  French  dressing,  and  garnish  with  lettuce. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 

Cut  celery  into  dice  pieces.  Cut  pineapple  into  dice  pieces. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

EGG   SALAD. 

8  eggs.  Lettuce, 

Mayonnaise  or  cooked  dressing. 

Cook  eggs  hard.  Cut  the  whites  of  the  egg  into  six  long 
petals,  arrange  them  on  beds  of  lettuce  to  simulate  petals 
of  a  daisy.     Strain  yolks  and  heap  in  center. 

EGG   SALAD. 

Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  in  halves  crosswise,  remove  the  yolks 
and  moisten  with  cooked  dressing.  Refill  the  whites. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  cooked  dressing. 

CABEAGE    SALAD. 

2  raw  eggs  (well  beaten),         6  teaspoons  vinegar, 
T/2   teaspoon  salt,  A  small  piece  of  butter. 

6  tablespoons  cream, 

Put  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  stirring  constantly  until 
quite   thick.     Chop   the    cabbage   fine   and   sprinkle   with   a 


90  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 

little  salt.      When  the  dressing  is  cold  add  2  tablespoons  of 
cream  and  pour  over  the  cabbage. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

1  head  of  lettuce,  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

3  oranges, 
Prepare  the  lettuce  and  place  in  nests  in  the  salad  dish. 
Pare  and  slice  3  navel  oranges  very  thin,  arrange  on  the  let- 
tuce and  put  mayonnaise  dressing  on.     Do  not  prepare  this 
until  just  before  serving. 

•     FRUIT   SALAD. 

One  pineapple,  5  oranges  and  4  bananas;  cut  pineapple, 
oranges  and  bananas  in  slices ;  put  a  layer  of  pineapple 
(which  is  cut  in  small  pieces)  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  then 
a  layer  of  cocoanut,  a  little  sugar,  then  the  oranges,  and  co- 
coanut,  and  bananas,  and  cocoanut,  and  so  on  until  the  dish 
is  full.  Have  the  cocoanut  on  top,  sift  a  little  sugar  over. 
Serve   with   whipped   cream. 

APPLE   SALAD. 

Take  large  red  apples,  polish  them,  dig  out  inside  after 
cutting  off  a  slice  from  the  top.  Then  fill  with  a  salad 
made  of  celery,  chopped  nuts,  chopped  apple,  with  mayon- 
naise dressing.  After  filling  the  apples  put  on  top  a  white 
grape  and  a  candied  cherry.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

CUCUMBER  AND   CORN   SALAD. 

Equal  parts  of  cold  cooked  green  corn  and  cucumbers, 
sliced  or  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  served  with  mayonnaise. 

DRESSING    FOR    CABBAGE    SALAD. 

Yolks   of   3    eggs   beaten,         4  tablespoons  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  mustard,  y2   teaspoon  salt, 

*4    teaspoon    pepper,  5  tablespoons  vinegar   or 

1  tablespoon    b   u   t  t   er  lemon  juice, 

melted, 


SALADS    AND   SALAD    DRESSINGS.  91 

Cook  in  a  double  boiler  till  thick  and  smooth.  Serve 
cold  on  chopped  cabbage.  If  the  dressing  is  too  thick  thin 
with  cream. 

COLD  SLAW. 

34  head  of  cabbage  il/2  teaspoon  butter, 

y2    cup  of  vinegar,  (diluted  with  water  if  very  strong). 
%  teaspoon  pepper,  i  teaspoon  sugar, 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  A  salt  spoon  of  salt. 

l/2  teaspoon  mustard, 

Put  all  but  the  cabbage  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  and 

beat  them  til!  they  thicken.  Then  pour  over  the  cabbagt 

and  set  away  to  cool. 

BEET   SALAD. 

Cook  beets  till  very  tender  then  cut  them  in  thin  slices 
or  dice  or  cut  in  fancy  shapes  with  a  vegetable  cutter.  Mix 
diced  celery  with  a  little  diced  cold  potato;  season  and  serve 
all  together  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise. 

GOLF    SALAD. 

Moisten  cream  cheese  with  fresh  cream  until  of  the  rignt 
consistency  to  roll  into  balls,  using  butter  ball  spaddles. 
Roll  in  chopped  nuts  and  serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

CHEESE   SALAD. 

Add  to  any  nice  cream  cheese  sufficient  rich  milk  to  make 
it  soft  enough  to  form  into  ba^s.  Press  halves  of  English 
walnuts  on  the  balls  and  arrange  them  on  lettuce  leaves; 
serve  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

APPLE,  BANANA  AND   ENGLISH  WALNUT  SALAD. 
3  apples,  4  bananas, 

1  cup  broken  nuts,  Lettuce. 

Pare  and  slice  the  bananas  and  apples,  and  place  on  the 
lettuce  after  washing  and  drying  it.  Put  a  liberal  sprink- 
ling of  nut  meats,  then  mayonnaise  on  top. 


92  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

SWEETBREAD    SALAD. 

Equal  parts  of  cooked  sweetbreads  cut  small,  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  fine  cucumber ;  season  with  boiled  cream 
dressing  or  mayonnaise  dressing;  serve  on  a  bed  of 
lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with  cold  boiled  egg  or  shrimps. 

APPLE  AND  GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD. 

Remove  the  pulp  from  2  grapefruit  with  a  spoon,  pare 
and  slice  an  equal  amount  of  apples.  Season  with  French 
dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

CUCUMBER   SALAD. 

Serve  sliced  cucumbers  on  a  bed  of  watercress.  Garnish 
with  German  salad  dressing  as  follows:  Beat  y2  cup  oi 
cream  until  thick ;  add  slowly  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  *4  tea- 
spoon salt  and  a  little  cayenne. 

DRESSING   FOR    FRUIT   SALAD. 

4  tablespoons  vinegar,  2  well  beaten  eggs, 

4  tablespoons  sugar,  2     tablespoons     whipped 

Butter  size  of  half  an  cream, 

egg,  t  teaspoon   salt. 

1  teaspoon  mustard. 
Melt  butter  in  the  vinegar  and  let  cool.     Mix  sugar,  salt, 
mustard  and  egg.     Add  to  the  vinegar  and  butter  and  cook 
slowly    till    it    thickens.     Just    before    serving   beat    in    the 
cream. 

TOMATO  ASPIC   SALAD. 

1  pt.  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice, 

1  salt  spoon  pepper,  */>  pt.  Mayonnaise  dress- 

*4    box  gelatine,  ing. 

Lettuce.  Parsley. 

i  teaspoon  salt. 
Strain  the  tomatoes,  add  the  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice, 
add  the  gelatine.     Soak  for  half  an  hour,  then  bring  it  to  the 
boiling  point,   and   pour  into   small   moulds.     Put   away   to 


SALADS    AND   SALAD    DRESSINGS.  93 

harden.  When  ready  to  serve,  arrange  nest  of  lettuce 
leaves  on  salad  dish,  turn  out  each  mould  of  jelly  in  a  nest. 
Pour  the  mayonnaise  dressing  around  them,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley. 

BAKED  APPLE  SALAD. 

Peel,  core  and  bake  apples  as  usual.  Place  one  apple  on 
a  lettuce  leaf  and  fill  the  cavity  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Stewed  prunes,  drained,  the  stones  removed,  and  served 
on  heart  leaves  of  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing  makes 
a  delicious  salad. 

MALAGA  SALAD  (TO  SERVE  WITH  GAME). 

Cut  Malaga  grapes  in  half  lengthwise,  remove  seeds,  covei 
with  French  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  A  few 
nuts  meats  may  be  added  if  desired. 

STUFFED    TOMATOES. 

Take  nice  round  tomatoes,  peel  and  cut  a  round  piece 
from  the  stem  end  and  scrape  out  the  inside ;  keeping  them 
very  cold  until  ready  to  serve.  Then  fill  them  with  diced 
celery  and  mayonnaise  adding  two  or  three  of  the  light 
celery  leaves  on  the  top.  Lay  a  lettuce  leaf  on  a  plate,  put 
a  spoon  of  mayonnaise  on  it  then  place  a  tomato  in  the 
center. 

APPLE  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

Three  parts  finely  cut  celery, 

Two  parts  English  walnut  meats  broken  in  pieces, 

One  part  diced  apple. 
Mix  together  with  enough  mayonnaise  to  blend. 

Core  and  pare  large  fair  apples  and  cut  in  cross  slices 
form  rings  *4  inch  thick.  Dip  at  once  in  lemon  juice  to 
preserve  the  color  and  add  flavor.  When  serving  place  an 
apple  ring  on  white  lettuce  leaf,  and  place  upon  i^  a  spoon- 
ful of  the  salad  mixture.  Garnish  with  a  spoonful  of  mayon- 
naise and  tinv  balls  of  cream  cheese  into  which  two  whole 
walnut  meats  are  pressed. 


94 


SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 


COOKED    SALAD    DRESSING    (WITH    OIL). 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  oil, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  j£*  teaspoon  dry  mustard, 

4  tablespoons  of  vinegar,         1   teaspoon  sugar, 
2-3  cup  of  milk,  A  dash  of  cayenne. 

Beat  eggs  lightly.  Drop  in  the  oil.  Add  the  salt  and 
mustard,  then  add  the  vinegar  slowly.  Put  in  the  sugar 
and  gradually  beat  in  the  milk.  Cook  over  hot  water  till 
thick  like  cream,  lastly  add  the  cayenne. 


FRENCH   SALAD  DRESSING 

3  tablespoons  vinegar, 
Y-i   teaspoon   mustard, 
3  tablespoons  of  oil, 
Beat  until  it  thickens. 


y2  teaspoon  salt, 
Yolk  of  1  egg, 


A   DELICATE    DRESSING  FOR   FRUIT   SALADS. 

Prepare  a  French  dressing  (double  the  rule).  Then  beat 
y  cup  of  cream  until  thick,  and  beat  in  the  French  dressing 
very  slowly.  It  ought  to  be  nearly  as  thick  as  mayonnaise 
when  done. 

BOILED   SALAD    DRESSING   NO.    1. 


1  egg,     - 

}4  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  teaspoon    mustard, 
%  teaspoon  cayenne  pep- 
per, 


1  cup  vingear, 

2  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  flour, 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  or 
melted  butter. 


Cook  all  together  until  thick  and  smooth. 


BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING,  NO.  2. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  tablespoon   sugar, 

x/2  teaspoon  salt,  5  tablespoons  vinegar, 

A  little  pepper,  6  tablespoons   milk. 


SALADS    AND    SALAD    DRESSINGS.  95 

Melt  the  butter  in  double  boiler,  then  add  vinegar,  sugar, 
salt,  pepper,  mustard  and  eggs  well  beaten ;  after  it  thickens 
add  the  milk  and  cook  until  thick  as  boiled  custard. 

COOKED    SALAD    DRESSING. 

2  eggs,  1  tablespoon     dry     mus- 
y2   teaspoon  salt,  tard, 

Yi  cup  milk,  y2  cup  butter  (melted), 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  i  cup  vinegar. 

Beat  egg  in  bowl,  put  sugar,  mustard  and  salt  in  a  cup, 
mix  them  together  and  add  them  to  the  egg.  Stir  in  milk 
and  butter.  Have  vinegar  boiling  hot  and  stir  in  slowly.  If 
not  thick  enough,  set  bowl  in  hot  water  to  cook. 

A  pinch  of  soda  added  to  the  vinegar  for  boiled  salad 
dressing  banishes  the  fear  of  curdling. 

FRENCH   DRESSING. 

1   salt  spoon  salt,  y2  salt  spoon  pepper, 

3  to  5  tablespoons  oil,  i   tablespoon    vinegar, 

{l/\  teaspoon  onion  juice  if  liked). 
Put  the  salt  and  pepper  in  a  bowl,  dissolve  them  with  the 
vinegar,  add  the  oil  slowly,  beating  well.  This  dressing  is 
suitable  for  egg  01  vegetable  salads,  and  is  also  used  to 
marinate  meat  or  fish  salad  before  using  the  mayonnaise. 
Lemon  juice  may  be  used  instead  of  vinegar. 

MAYONNAISE    DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  n      i   tablespoon    vinegar, 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  Y\  teaspoon  mustard, 

l/2  teaspoon  salt,  l/2  salt  spoon  pepper. 

1  cup  olive  oil, 
Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  very  light  with  salt,  pepper  and 
mustard.  Then  add  l/2  tablespoon  vinegar  and  l/2  table- 
spoon lemon  juice  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  oil  very  slow- 
ly, beating  all  the  time  with  Dover  egg  beater,  until  the 
dressing  is  so  thick  that  it  is  hard  to  beat ;  then  add  the  rest 
of  the  vinegar  and  lemon  juice  and  then  more  oil,  beating 
thoroughly.  It  ought  to  be  very  thick  when  done.  Stand 
on  ice  until  time  to  serve. 


96  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 


PASTRY. 


PIE   CRUST. 


2  cups  flour,  24   CUP  lard, 

y2  cup  ice  water,  A  little  salt. 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together.  Chop  lard  into  flour  with  a 
knife.  Add  the  ice  water  a  little  at  a  time.  Mix  lightly 
handling  as  little  as  possible.  This  will  make  one  large 
pie  with  2  crusts  or  i  medium  sized  pie  and  shell  for  another. 
Never  rub  lard  into  flour,  but  leave  it  in  small  lumps.  This 
will  make  crust  more  flaky. 

PLAIN   PIE   CRUST. 

To  i  lb.  of  pastry  flour  use  y>  a  lb.  of  lard  (or  3  cups  of 
flour  to  1  of  lard)  ;  reserve  ?  part  of  the  shortening  to  roll 
into  the  top  crust ;  wet  with  ice-cold  water ;  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 

1  cup  cranberries,  1  cup  sugar, 

]/2  cup  chopped  raisins,  y2   cup  water, 

1  tablespoon  flour,  Add  bits  of  butter. 
Flavor  with  vanilla, 

Bake  in  two  crusts. 

CRANBERRY    PIE. 

2  cups  cranberries,  1   cup  chopped  raisins. 

1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  water, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  1  egg. 

Bake  with  two  crusts.     Serve  warm  with  suear  and  cream. 


PASTRY.  97 

MINCE   MEAT, 

3  lbs.  meat,  i  lb.  suet, 

6  lbs.  apples,  I  lb.  raisins, 

i   lb.  Sultana  raisins,  ^41b.  citron, 

3^4  lbs.  sugar,  2  lbs.  currants, 

i   qt.  sherry,  I   pt.  brand)-, 

i  tablespoonful  cloves,  i  tablespoonful  allspice, 

2  tablespoonfuls  mace,  2  tablespoonfuis       cinna- 

i  tablespoonful  nutmeg,  mon. 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  set  away  in  jars  until 
ready  to  use. 

MINCE    MEAT    (WITHOUT    MEAT). 

\y2   qts.   green   tomatoes.         2  qts.  apples, 
5  cups  brown  sugar,  3  cups  molasses, 

2  cups  raisins,  t   cup  currants, 

1  cup  citron,  4  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

2  teaspoons  cloves,  r/2    nutmeg, 

1  cup  butter,  \V2  cups  vinegar. 

Boil  until  well  cooked  then  stir  in  9  tablespoons  of  flour 
and  remove  from  fire. 

MOCK    MINCE    PIE. 

2^2    cups    milk    crackers,  V2  cup  sugar, 

(rolled   fine),  T4    cup   vinegar, 

T/2  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  chopped  raisins, 

54  cup  buffer, 

Cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg, 
Stir  all  together,  then  add  t  cup  boiling  water,  stir  again. 
Bake  with  two  crusts. 

APPLE    PUFF    PIE. 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  rich  pie  paste.  Wet  the  edge 
and  lay  a  twist  of  the  crust  around.  Fill  three-quarters  full 
of  thinly  sliced  apples  and  cook.  When  apples  are  soft 
take  from  the  oven  sweeten  and  pour  over  the  top  a  custard 
made  of  1  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  yolks  of  2  eggs 


98  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

and  ]/2  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Return  to  the  oven  and  bake 
till  the  custard  is  set.  Let  partly  cool,  and  cover  witk  a 
meringue  made  of  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  one  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  %  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

APPLE  TURNOVERS. 

Make  a  nice  pastry.  Roll  and  cut  into  pieces  about  five 
inches  square.  Place  a  spoon  of  good  apple  sauce  in  the 
center  of  each  piece.  Moisten  the  edges.  Fold  together 
and  pinch  well.     Glaze  with  milk  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

RAISIN   PIE. 

i  cup  chopped  raisins,  i  cup  water, 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of        Rolled  crackers  to  thick- 
i  lemon,  en. 

Boil  the  raisins  in  the  water  to  soften,  add  more  water  if 
needed.     Bake  with  two  crusts. 

RHUBARE  PIE,  NO.  i. 

Line  a  large  pie  plate  with  good  crust.  Fill  a  little  more 
than  half  full  with  rhubarb  cut  in  squares.  Take  i  table- 
spoon of  flour  i  egg,  i  cup  sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  i  lemon.  Beat  together  and  pour  over  the  top  of 
the  rhubarb.     Cover  with  an  upper  crust  and  bake. 

RHUBARB  PIE,  NO.  2. 

1  cup  rhubarb,  1  cup  sugar, 

2  eggs,  Pinch  of  salt. 
Chop  rhubarb  fine,  bake  in  two  crusts. 

RHUBARB  PIE,  NO.  3. 

1  cup  rhubarb  (chopped  1  cup  sugar, 

fine),  1  tablespoon    cornstarch, 

Yolks  of  2  eggs, 
Wet   cornstarch   with   cold  water,   fill   cup   with   boiling 
water,  add  a  little  grated  lemon  and  orange  rind  and  cook. 
Use  whites  of  egg  for  frosting. 


PASTRY.  99 

GOOSEBERRY  PIE. 

Gooseberries  must  be  cooked  and  sweetened  before  being 
used  for  a  pie.     They  are  baked  with  two  crusts. 

RIPE  CURRANT   PIE. 

i  cup  ripe   currants         i  cup  sugar, 

mashed,  Yolks  of  2  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  of  water,  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Bake  in  one  crust.  Frost  the  top  with  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 

APPLE    PIE. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust  and  fill  with  sour  apples 
sliced  thin.  Lay  the  upper  crust  on.  Press  them  to- 
gether very  lightly  and  bake.  When  done  remove  from 
the  oven  and  carefully  lift,  off  the  upper  crust.  Season 
with  sugar,  butter  and  nutmeg.  Replace  the  crust.  An 
apple  pie  baked  this  way  will  never  run  over  in  the  oven, 
or  the  pie  may  be  seasoned  before  baking  and  a  narrow 
strip  of  cloth  wet  in  milk  bound  around  the  edge. 

ORANGE  PIE,  NO.   1. 

1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs, 

2  oranges,  1  cup  milk. 

Take  the  grated  peel  of  1  orange  the  juice  and  pulp  of 
2,  add  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  then  the 
beaten  whites  added  to  the  milk.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and 
bake  in  one  crust. 

ORANGE  PIE,  NO.  2. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  pie  crust  and  bake.  Cut  the  peel 
from  3  oranges  close  to  the  pulp  and  scoop  out  the  sec- 
tions of  pulp  as  whole  as  possible  leaving  the  membrane 
on  the  core.  Lay  the  pulp  in  a  strainer  and  to  the  juice 
which  drains  through  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
enough  water  to  make  one  cupful.     Put  it  on   to  boil  and 


!°°  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK.. 

thicken  it  with  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  Hour  mixed 
with  i  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  ten  minutes;  add  I  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs  and  pour  into  the  baked  crust.  When  cool  cover 
with  the  drained  sections  of  oranges.  Just  before  serv- 
ing sprinkle  thickly  with  powdered  sugar  or  the  pie  may 
be  covered  with  a  meringue  or  with  whipped  cream. 

PINEAPPLE     PIE. 

1   cup  chopped  pineapple,         1   cup  sugar, 

y2   cup  cream,  The  yolks  of  2  eggs, 

1   tablespoonful    butter,  1   tablespoon  cornstarch. 

Cook  all  together  before  putting  into  the  crust,  when 
done  frost  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth 
with  a  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  and  deli- 
cately brown. 

WASHINGTON    PIE. 

y2  cup  sugar,  2  cups    milk, 

3  eggs,  34  teaspoon  salt, 

4  level  tablespoons  Karo         2  teaspoons  vanilla, 
cornstarch, 

Beat  the  yoiks  of  eggs ;  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  cornstarch 
and  beat  again.  Pour  into  the  milk  that  has  been  heated  in 
a  double  boiler.  Stir  till  well  cooked  and  smooth.  Season 
and  pour  into  a  baked  pie  crust.  Cover  with  the  whites  of 
3  eggs  beaten  with  2  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar  and  Ya 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder.     Brown  lightly  in  a  hot  oven. 

SOUR   MILK  PIE. 

1   cup  sour  milk,  1   tablespoon  cornstarch, 

1  cup   sugar,  A  little  salt,  vanilla   and 

1  cup  chopped  raisins,  nutmeg. 

T     pcro- 

x     c  t>  &  > 

Bake  in  two  crusts. 


PASTRY.  IOI 

CHERRY   PIE. 

Sour  cherries  make  the  best  pie  and  many  think  the  stones 
improve  the  flavor.  The  under  crust  should  be  well  coated 
with  the  white  of  an  egg'.  Bind  an  inch  strip  of  white  mus- 
lin that  has  been  wet  in  milk  around  the  edge  of  the  pie  to 
prevent  running  over  in  the  oven. 

SOUTHERN  PIE. 

i   cup  vinegar,  I  cup  sugar, 

i  cup  water,  2  eggs, 

2  heaping  table  spoons          1   teaspoon  of  lemon, 
cornstarch. 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg. 
Put  water,  sugar,  vinegar  and  butter  in  double  boiler. 
When  nearly  boiling  add  the  yolks  of  the  egg  and  cornstarch 
beaten  together.  Cook  the  mixture  till  it  thickens.  When, 
cool  pour  into  a  baked  pie  crust  and  cover  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

CREAM  PIE,  NO.  1. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  cornstarch, 

1  rounded  ta  b  1  e  s  p  o  o  n         1  teaspoon  orange  extract, 

flour,  y2  cup  sugar, 

1   rounded  ta  b  1  e  s  p  o  o  n         1  pt.  milk. 
Cook  in  double  boiler.     Pour  into  a  baked  pie  crust  and 
frost  with  whites  of  the  eggs. 

CREAM  PIE,  NO.  2. 

iy2  pts.  milk,  4  eggs, 

3  tablespoonfuls     corn-        4  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
starch, 

Heat  the  milk,  stir  into  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  the  corn- 
starch and  sugar  and  add  to  the  hot  milk.  When  thick 
enough,  flavor  and  pour  into  a  baked  crust.  Make  meringue 
of  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  5  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sugar, 
spread  over  top  of  pie  and  brown.  This  is  sufficient  for 
two  pies. 


102  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

LEMON  PTE,  NO.  i. 

i   large  lemon,  9  eggs, 

5  heaping  table  spoons         \]A  cups  sugar, 
flour,  3  cups  water. 

Grate  the  whole  lemon  rind,  skin  and  pulp,  add  to  this  5 
whole  eggs  and  yolks  of  the  other  4,  sugar  and  flour  and  beat 
thoroughly,  then  add  the  water.  Line  two  good  sized  pie 
plates  with  paste,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  four  eggs  until  light,  but  not  stiff,  then  add 
4  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  baking 
powder  and  beat  until  the  mixture  will  stand  alone,  place 
over  the  tops  of  the  pies,  put  back  in  the  oven  and  brown. 

OLD    FASHIONED  LEMON    PIE. 

2  lemons,  ]/2  cup  raisins, 

iJ/2  cups  water,  il/2  cups  sugar, 

2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch. 
Pinch  of  salt, 

Squeeze  lemon  juice,  then  chop  lemons  and  raisins  to- 
gether very  fine,  beat  the  eggs  and  add  all  together.  Bake 
with  two  crusts. 

LEMON  PIES,  NO.  2. 

3  lemons,  chopped  fine,  2  cups  sugar, 
2-3  cup  molasses,  3  eggs-. 

Will  make  two  pies. 

LEMON  PIES,  NO.  3. 

1  lemon   and   grated         1  cup  water, 

rind,  2  eggs    (save    one    white 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  for  meringue). 
1  large  cup  sugar, 

Cook  water  and  cornstarch  first,  then  cook  all  together. 
Bake  in  one  crust.  When  done  and  partly  cooled  frost  with 
the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  stiff  to  which  add  1  tablespoon 
of  granulated  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  baking  powder.  Return 
to  the  oven  and  brown  lightly. 


PASTRY.  IO3 

LEMON  PIE,  NO.  4. 

One  cup  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  flour  mixed.  Add  the 
juice  of  1  lemon  and  the  yolks  of  2  large  or  3  small  eggs. 
Use  a  little  of  the  grated  peel  of  the  lemon.  Add  at  the 
last  1  cup  milk  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff. 
Bake  in  one  crust. 

BAMBERRY  TARTS. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  lb.  raisins,  chopped, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  l  2  eggs, 
lemon, 

Make  a  rich    pastry,  cut  with  a    small    pail    cover.     Fill 

and  double  the  edges  together.  Glaze  the  tops  with  milk 
and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 

SQUASH  PIE,  NO.  1. 

2  cups  milk,  2  cups  squash, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  season  with  cinnamon  and 
ginger. 
Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  crust.     Pour  in  the  squash  and 
bake  till  firm. 

SQUASH  PIE,  NO.  2. 

1  qt.  milk,  1  tablespoon   cornstarch, 

2  cups  strained  squash,  2  cups  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  eggs,  Pinch  of  salt. 
Dissolve  one  large  tablespoon  cornstarch  in  a  little  of  the 

milk,  scald  the  rest  of  the  milk,  add  cornstarch,  cook  until 
it  thickens  slightly,  beat  eggs,  add  squash,  sugar,  a  small 
teaspoon  ginger  and  cinnnamon  and  salt,  pour  in  scalded 
milk,  and  fill  the  crusts  of  two  large  pies.  Cook  in  a  hot 
oven  until  brown. 

TARTLETS. 

Roll  out  a  nice  puff-paste  and  cut  out  with  a  biscuit  cut- 
ter.   With  a  smaller  cutter  cut  out  the  center  of  three  and 


104  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

lay  them  on  one  that  has  not  been  cut.  Bake  them  and 
when  cold  fill  the  centers  with  jelly.  Cover  with  a  merin- 
gue and  brown  slightly.     They  are  -very  nice  for  lunch. 

CHOCOLATE    PIE. 

Bake  a  rich  pie  crust. 
Filling — y2    cup   grated   chocolate,   melted   in    I    cup   hot 
water, 

2  tablespoons  of  flour,  I  teaspoonful  vanilla, 

i  cup  sugar,  Lump  of  butter. 

~>     pnroc 

To  the  chocolate  and  hot  water,  add  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
then  the  sugar,  flavoring  and  beaten  yolks,  thicken  with 
either  2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  or  flour,  dissolved  in  a 
little  cold  water.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  pour  into  crust 
and  make  meringue  of  whites  of  eggs.     Brown. 

SWEETHEARTS. 

Roll  some  rich  paste  as  for  pies  and  cut  in  heart  shapes. 
From  one-half  of  the  hearts  cut  three  small  rounds  about 
the  size  of  a  five-cent  piece.  Hake  all  the  hearts  and  on  the 
whole  ones  put  a  spoonful  of  jelly.  Lay  the  cut  ones  on  top. 
Press  lightly  together  and  serve.  The  jelly  will  show 
through  the  openings  and  the  hearts  make  a  little  pastry 
for  teas. 


HOT    DESSERTS.  105 


HOT  DESSERTS. 


STEAMED    PUFFS. 

2  eggs,  s  1  cup  milk, 

y2  cup  butter,  3  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

2  cups  flour,  der. 
T/2   cup   sugar, 

Butter  cups  put  three  half  peaches  or  that  amount  of 
any  fruit  in  the  cups,  then  fill  half  full  with  a  batter  made 
with  the  above  ingredients  and  steam  40  minutes.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar  or  whipped  cream.  More  flour  may 
be  needed  as  the  batter  must  be  very  thick.  Preserved  apri- 
cots are  very  nice  in  the  place  of  the  peaches.  One  half  of 
this  receipt  makes  four  or  five  puffs. 

BAKED    INDIAN    PUDDING. 

Stir  4  tablespoons  of  corn  meal  into  1  cup  of  cold  milk, 
then  stir  in  one  pt.  of  scalded  milk.  Add  y2  cup  of  sugar, 
Y2.  cup  of  molasses,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  cinna- 
mon, y2  teaspoon  of  ginger,  2  eggs  thoroughly  beaten  and 
Yz  cup  of  raisins. 

Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  one  half  hour,  then  pour  in  y* 
cup  of  cold  milk.  Stir  pudding  thoroughly.  Return  to  the 
oven  and  bake  slowly  about  an  hour  and  a  half  longer. 

PRIME  PUDDING. 

y2  cup  pearl  tapioca,  y2  cup  cocoanut. 

3  eggs  (beaten),  y2  cup  sugar, 

3  cups  milk,  y,  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  and  bake  y>  hour.     Serve  hot  with  cream. 

RICE  CUSTARD. 

1   cup  boiled  rice,  2  cups  milk, 

1  egg  (beaten),  y>  cup  sugar, 

A   little  nutmeg,  T4  cup  raisin-. 


106  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 

Mix  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  pudding  dish ;  set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

COCOANUT   PUDDING. 

Yz  cup  bread  crumbs,  i  tablespoon  butter, 

2  cups  milk,  i  teaspoon  lemon, 

x/z  cup  sugar,  i   egg. 

Y>  cup  cocoanut, 
Bake  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

PRUNE   PUDDING. 

i  tablespoon  vanilla,  ]/2  lb.  prunes, 

Y  cup  powdered  sugar,  4  eggs. 

Soak  the  prunes  ov?r  night  then  stew,  drain,  stone  and 
chop  them  to  a  paste.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
sugar  very  light,  add  the  vanilla  and  mix  with  the  prunes. 
Beat  the  whites  very  stiff  and  add  them  last  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  twenty  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

DELICIOUS    INDIAN    PUDDING. 

1  cup  molasses,  ^  cup  bread  crumbs, 

1  cup  raisins.  Lump    of   butter    size    of 

i  qt.  milk,  egg, 

1  pt.  water,  ,         2     tablespoons  sugar, 

2  eggs,  Pinch  of  salt. 
i   scant  pt.  yellow  meal. 

Stir  pudding  over  fire  till  thoroughly  heated,  then  pour 
into  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  three  hours. 

SUET   PUDDING. 

2  cups  suet,  1  cup  chopped  raisins, 

2-3  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoon  soda,  4  cups  flour. 

Steam  two  hours ;  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

PRUNE   PUDDING. 

Wash  well  and  boil  1  lb.  of  prunes  in  water  enough  to 
cover  them  adding  sugar  to  taste.     When  tender  drain  the 


HOT   DESSERTS.  107 

juice  from  the  prunes  and  let  them  cool.  Remove  the  pits 
and  chop  the  prunes  until  they  become  like  a  paste.  Beat 
the  whites  of  5  eggs  very  stiff,  gradually  adding  5  table- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar.  Add  the  prunes  and  whip  all 
together  for  a  moment.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty-five 
minutes.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  This  makes  enough 
for  six  or  seven  portions. 

BOILED   PUDDING. 

1  egg,  Yi  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  4  cups  bread  crumbs, 

y2     teaspoon     soda     dis-  1^     cups    mixed     fruits, 

solved  in  the  milk.  (raisins,  currants,  cit- 

y2  cup  butter,  creamed,  ron). 

Put  in  buttered  tin  pail,  cover  tight  and  steam  two  hours. 
Serve  with  hard  or  foamy  sauce. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

Butter  a  baking  dish;  place  in  it  alternate  layers  of  bread 
crumbs  and  slices  of  sour  apples.  Sprinkle  brown  sugar, 
cinnamon  and  bits  of  butter  over  each  layer,  finish  with 
crumbs.  Bake  for  one  hour  and  serve  with  cream  or  hard 
sauce. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

Mix  ^4  CUP  of  butter  with  y2  cup  of  powdered  sugar  or 
maple  syrup,  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla.  Heap  lightly  in 
a  glass  dish. 

STEAMED    GRAHAM    PUDDING. 

1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk, 

2  eggs,  2  cups   graham    flour. 
Yz  cup  currants,                         y>  cup  raisins, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  Salt. 

Mix  and  steam  three  hours  in  buttered  mould. 


lo8  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

PRUNE    PUDDING. 

i  cup  sugar,  i  lb.  prunes. 

Whites   of  2  eggs.  Ti>  box  gelatine. 

Soak  prunes  over  night  in  enough  water  to  cover.  In 
the  morning  remove  the  stones  and  stew  prunes  in  the  same 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked.  When  perfectlv  soft 
add  sugar  and  when  this  is  dissolved  remove  prunes  from 
fire  and  put  through  a  colander.  There  should  be  a  full 
pint  of  pulp  and  juice.  Bea^  whites  of  the  eggs  and  add 
them  to  the  pulp  and  stir  well.  Soak  gelatine  one  hour  in 
i  cupful  of  cold  water,  then  add  enough  boiling  water  to 
dissolve  it.  When  lukewarm  add  this  gelatine  to  the  prune 
and  egg  mixture,  turn  into  a  mould  and  set  away  to  stiffen. 
Serve  with  milk  swetened  and  flavored  with  almond. 

CHARLOTTE   PUDDING. 

i   cup  water,  i  cup  sugar, 

1-3  cup  tapioca.  6  or  8  apples, 

Boil  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan.  Pare  and  core  the 
apples  and  cook  them  in  the  syrup  three  or  four  at  a  time 
turning  them  often  till  they  are  tender.  When  all  are 
cooked  put  them  in  a  baking  dish,  add  enough  water  to 
the  syrup  to  make  three  cups  in  all  and  stir  in  the  tapioca. 
Cook  till  transparent  and  pour  over  the  apples,  sprinkle  a 
little  more  sugar  and  nutmeg  over  the  top  and  bake  a  few 
minutes.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

DUTCH    APPLE    CAKE. 

2  cups  flour,  1   egg, 

4  teaspoons  baking  pow-         2  tablespoonfuls  butter, 

der,  2  tablespoonfuls      granit- 

ic teaspoonful  salt.  lated  sugar, 

}i  cup  milk, 
1   large  apple  quartered  and  sliced. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  one-half  the  sugar  to- 
gether.    Cut   in  the  butter  with  a  knife.     Add  the  beaten 


HOT    DESSERTS. 


I  Of) 


egg  to  the  milk  and  stir  into  the  dry  mixture.  Put  in  a 
buttered  pan,  place  slices  of  apple  (or  peaches)  edgewise  in 
the  batter.  Sprinkle  with  the  second  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  a  little  cinnamon.  Bake  20  minutes.  Serve  with  liquid 
sauce. 

APPLE    SURPRISE. 

1   egg  (beaten),  2  tablespoons  of  sugar, 

y2  cup  sweet  milk,  1   cup  flour, 

1   heaping   teaspoon    bak-         Sliced    apples, 
ing  powder, 
Butter  a  pie  pan  and  place  in  it  a  layer  of  sliced  apples 
and  pour  over  them  the  batter.     Bake  until  the  apples  are 
soft,  which  should  be  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes.     Use 
any  sauce  preferred. 

APPLE   PUFF. 

Add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and  3  tablespoons 
of  powdered  sugar  to  1  cup  of  apple  sauce  seasoned  with 
nutmeg,  a  bit  of  butter  and  sugar,  and  set  in  oven  for  a  few 
minutes. 

SUET   PUDDING. 

1   cup  chopped  suet,  1   teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1   cup  stoned  raisins,  t   teaspoon  cloves, 

1   cup  milk  (sour  is  best),  V2  nutmeg, 

Pinch  of  salt. 
Flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  a  little  thicker  than  cake. 
Steam  three  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

HUCKLEBERRY    PUDDING. 

y2  cup  sugar,  x/\   cup  butter, 

J4  cup  milk,  1   cup  berries, 

1   egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

1   cup  flour,  der. 

Bake.     To  be  eaten  with  sauce. 


110  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

COCOANUT    PUDDING. 

y2  cup  cocoanut,  i  tablespoon    melted 

Yz  cup  bread  crumbs,  .  butter, 

i  pt.  milk,  i  egg, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt. 
Soak  cocoanut  and  bread  in  milk  for  an  hour.     Bake  one- 
half  hour. 

FLOAT. 

One  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  il/2  pts.  milk,  and  1  heaping  table- 
spoon Duryeas'  Cornstarch.  Put  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
till  the  mixture  thickens.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  serve  in 
glasses  when  cold. 

CHOCOLATE    PUDDING. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  square  chocolate, 
y2  cup  sugar,  1  egg, 

2  cups  scalded  milk,  Little  salt. 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  the  scalded  milk  with  the  crumbs. 
Bake  one-half  hour.     Serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream. 

ORANGE    SOUFFLE. 

Yolks  4  eggs,  2  lemons, 

1  cup  sugar,  Juice  and  pulp  of  2  large 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  oranges. 

Beat  yolks  thoroughly,  add  sugar  and  lemon  and  orange 
juice.  Beat  whites  very  stiff  and  cut  and  fold  them  into 
yolks  and  sugar.  Bake  in  buttered  baking  dish  placed  in 
hot  water  like  baked  custard  very  slowly,  from  thirty  to 
forty  minutes. 

CHRISTMAS  PUDDING. 

1  cup   suet  chopped  fine  t  cup   New   Orleans   mo- 

1  teaspoon  of  soda.  lasses, 

1  cup  milk,  y2  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon   cinnamon,  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  of  raisins. 


HOT    DESSERTS.  Ill 

Dissolve  soda  in  2  tablespoons  of  water  and  add  to  the 
molasses.  Now  add  this  to  the  suet,  then  add  the  milk, 
salt,  cinnamon  and  lour.  Beat  for  two  minutes,  then  add 
the  raisins  floured.  Pour  into  a  well  buttered  mould,  put 
on  the  lid  and  steam  or  boil  for  three  hours. 

PLUM    PUDDING. 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins,  Ya  lb.  stale  bread  crumbs 

1  lb.  of  currants,  y2  nutmeg  grated, 

1/2.  lb.  minced  candied  ]/$  lb.  brown  sugar, 

orange  peel,  r/^  lb.  flour, 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  5  eggs, 

1  lb.     of     suet     chopped         l/z  pint  of  brandy, 
fine, 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  well  together.  Beat  the  eggs, 
add  to  them  the  brandy  and  pour  over  the  dry  ingredients 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Pack  into  greased  moulds.  (This 
will  make  about  six  pounds)  and  boil  six  hours  at  time  of 
making,  and  six  hours  when  wanted  for  use.  Serve  with 
hard  or  brandy  sauce. 

DUCHESSE  PLUM   PUDDING. 

2  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
2  tablespoons    butter         Ya  cup  molasses, 

(melted),  1  egg, 

1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  flour, 

1  cup  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Soften  the  bread  crumbs  with  the  hot  water,  beat  all  to- 
gether well  and  steam  two  hours  and  serve  with  Duchesse 
Pudding  Sauce. 

DUCHESSE  PUDDING   SAUCE. 

1  cup  cream,  1  cup    granulated    sugar, 

2  tablespoons  Karo  corn-         1  cup  cold  water, 
starch,  *4  teaspoon  salt. 

Dissolve  sugar  in  the  water  and  heat.  When  hot  stir  in 
the  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little  waer,  add  the  salt  and 


112  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

stir  until  cleai .  Remove  from  the  fire.  Whip  the  cream, 
add  to  the  sauce,  when  it  is  cool  and  whip  two  or  three 
minutes. 

ENGLISH   PLUM   PUDDING. 

i   lb.  kidney  suet,  y2  pt.  brandy, 

i  lb.  raisins,  t   lb.  flour, 

i  lb.  sultanas,  r  lb.     currants, 

]/2  lb.   orange  and  lemon          y2  lb.  citron, 

peel,  i  cup   bread   crumbs, 
2  tablespoons     mixed         6  eggs, 

spices,  i    cup   milk. 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients  well  together,  working  thorough- 
ly with  the  hands.  Then  add  eggs  and  milk  and  lastly  the 
brandy.  This  quantity  will  fill  one  quart  bowl,  and  three 
or  four  smaller  ones  according  to  size  and  will  keep  any 
length  of  time.  Butter  the  bowls  very  thoroughly.  Fill 
nearly  full.  Cover  with  heavy  muslin.  Wet  the  muslin 
and  dredge  well  with  flour  and  tie  over  the  top  of  bowls. 
As  sooon  as  bowls  are  ready  put  them  in  a  boiler  of  boiling 
water  and  boil  steadily  for  ten  hours.  Keep  covered  all 
the  time  with  boiing  water.  Take  from  the  boiler,  let  drain 
and  put  away  till  needed.  Then  boil  again  in  the  same  way 
an  hour  or  two  till  heated  through. 


COLD    DESSERTS.  I  I  3 


COLD  DESSERTS. 


BISCUIT    GLACE. 

1   pt.  whipped  cream.  i   cup  water, 

1  doz.  macaroons.  y  cup  sugar, 

3  eggs,  i  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  l/2  hour.  Beat  eggs  well, 
and  stir  into  boiling  syrup.  Put  saucepan  into  another  pan 
of  boiling  water,  and  stir  or  beat  eight  minutes.  Take  from 
fire,  and  place  in  pan  of  cold  water,  and  beat  until  cool.  Add 
flavoring  and  whipped  cream.  Put  into  mould  and  pack  in 
ice.  Before  packing,  have  macaroons  chopped  fine  and 
sprinkle  on  top  of  mould.     This  receipt  serves  eight. 

SUPERB    PUDDING. 

1  pt.  cream,  l/2  package  gelatine, 

1  cup  grape  juice.  i  cup  pulverized  sugar, 

y2  cup  boiled  rice,  y2  cup  chopped  figs. 

y2  cup  chopped  dates, 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  a  half  hour : 
then  stand  the  dish  in  the  hot  water  to  be  sure  it  is  all  dis- 
solved, then  let  it  cool,  but  not  stiffen.  Whip  the  cream,  stir 
in  the  gelatine,  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  freeze 
till  smooth. 

NUT   PUDDING. 

1%  cups  chopped  suet.  y2   lb.  English  walnuts, 

1%  cups  flour,  y>  lb.  dates, 

y2  cup  milk,  Ya  lb.  figs, 

y2  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  warm  milk. 
Steam  two  and  one-half  hours  or  longer.     Serve  with  the 
following  sauce : 

y2  cup  butter,  1  egg, 

1  cup  sugar.  Grape  juice  or  wine. 


114  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

TALPICON   OF   FRUIT. 

i  small  pineapple,  Maraschino  cherries, 

2  large  oranges,  Maraschino  brandy, 

2  bananas,  I  wineglass  sherry  or  Ma- 

Yz  lb.  white  grapes,  deira, 

yi   cup  sugar,  i  large  grapefruit. 

Shred  pineapple,  oranges,  grapefruit,  cut  bananas  in 
cubes,  peel  and  stone  grapes;  put  together  in  a  mould,  pour 
over  it  the  Maraschino  brandy  and  sherry  and  %.  cup  sugai. 
Set  in  ice  box  or  almost  frappe  in  ice  cream  freezer.  Serve 
in  punch  glasses  or  grapefruit  or  orange  shells.  Serve 
very  cold  with  two  Maraschino  cherries  on  top  of  each  glass. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

i  box  gelatine,  2  cups  sugar, 

2  oranges,  2  lemons, 

6  figs,  9  dates, 

io  English  walnuts,  2  bananas. 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  l/2  pint  of  cold  water  add  24  pint 
boiling  water,  juice  of  lemons,  oranges  and  sugar,  strain 
and  let  stand  until  it  thickens  a  little,  then  stir  in  the  fruit 
and  nuts  cut  fine.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CHOCOLATE   CHARLOTTE. 

i  qt.  milk,  l/2  box  gelatine, 

4  heaping     teaspoons         3  eggs, 

grated  chocolate,  2  teaspoons  vanilla, 

24  cup  sugar,  Salt. 

Soak  gelatine  in  1  cup  milk.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  the 
teakettle.  Heat  milk  in  double  boiler.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs 
and  sugar  together,  add  chocolate  to  them.  Add  soaked 
gelatine  to  scalded  milk  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Then 
pour  it  very  slowly  into  the  beaten  yolks,  sugar  and  choco- 
late. Put  back  into  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  it 
almost  boils,  then  stir  it  into  the  beaten  whites.  Serve  cold 
with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 


COLD    DESSERTS.  I  I  5 

BREAD   PUDDING. 

2  cups  bread  crumbs,  3  eggs, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

4  cups  milk, 
Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  add  to  the  milk,  then  stir  in  sugar, 
crumbs  and  seasoning.  Turn  into  a  dish  and  bake ;  when 
cold  spread  a  layer  of  jelly  over  the  pudding;  beat  the  whites 
stiff  with  3  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar.  Add  a  pinch 
of  baking  powder;  spread  the  meringue  over  the  layer  of 
jelly  and  brown  a  minute  in  the  oven. 

ORANGE    CREAM    PUDDING. 

*4  box  of  gelatine,  3  eggs, 

1  cup   sugar,  Juice  of  3  oranges. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  %  cup  of  water  then  add  boiling  water 
to  fill  the  cup.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar 
till  very  light,  add  the  orange  juice  and  gelatine,  then  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Set  away  in  a  mould  and 
serve  cold. 

FRUITED   GELATINE. 

Cut  bananas  in  slices,  oranges  in  small  pieces,  a  few  nut 
meats  and  a  few  raisins.  Put  these  into  tinted  gelatine  and 
mould.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

PINEAPPLE   GELATINE. 

y2  box  gelatine,  1  cup  cold  water, 

1  cup  pineapple  chopped,         Yz  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  then  add  1  cup  of  pineapple 
juice  that  has  been  brought  to  the  boil  with  the  sugar. 
Pour  this  over  the  chopped  pineapple  and  pour  into  a  mould, 
Color  red  if  desired. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

2  dessertspoons  Peter  Cooper's  gelatine, 

1   cup  scalded   milk,  1   pt.  cream. 


Il6  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Let  stand  a  few 
minutes  then  mix  with  the  scalded  milk.  When  it  begins 
to  thicken,  stir  it  gradually  into  i  pint  of  cream  that  has 
been  whipped,  sweetened,  and  flavored.  Line  a  deep  dish 
with  slices  of  sponge  cake,  pour  cream  over  it.  When  ready 
to  serve  place  on  top  small  pieces  of  coffee  jelly  or  Maras- 
chino cherries. 

TIPSY  PARSON. 

Take  sponge  cake  moistened  with  sherry  and  lay  in  glass 
dish.  Make  custard  of  one  pint  milk,  yolks  2  eggs  and  I 
heaping  teaspoon  Duryeas '  Cornstarch.  Pour  over  cake 
while  hot.  Just  before  serving  sprinkle  blanched  almonds 
freely  over  top.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  into  stiff  froth  with  2 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  1  cup  sweet  cream. 

PINEAPPLE  SPONGE. 

1  small  pineapple,  1  cup  sugar  (scant), 

1/2  box  gelatine,  1^2  cups  water. 

Wrhites  of  five  eggs. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  7<4  cup  cold  water;  chop  the  pineapple 
and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  the  sugar  and  the  remaining 
cup  of  water  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Add  the  gelatine; 
take  from  the  fire,  strain  and  when  cool  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  beat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Pour 
into  a  mould  and  let  it  harden.     Serve  with  soft  custard. 

PINEAPPLE   MOUSSE. 

One  cup  chopped  pineapple,  1  cup  sugar  and  a  cup  water. 
Cook  these  ten  minutes  and  strain.  In  1  cup  of  this  hot 
juice  dissolve  1  envelope  Minute  Gelatine  (Plain).  When 
beginning  to  "jell"  beat  into  it  1  cup  cream  well  whipped. 
Canned  pineapple  may  be  used. 

OAT    MEAL  JELLY. 

Soak  1  cup  oatmeal  in  il/2  pts.  water  over  night.  In  the 
morning  strain  off  the  water  through  a  sieve  and  boil  it 


(OLD    DESSERTS.  1  '7 

fifteen  minutes.  Turn  it  into  moulds,  set  in  a  cool  place  and 
in  twenty  minutes  it  will  jelly  and  be  sufficiently  warm  to 
eat  as  a  breakfast  cereal  with  cream  and  sugar.  In  summer 
time  set  on  the  ice  and  serve  cold  with  hulled  strawberries 
or  sliced  peaches,  sugar  and  cream. 

MINUTE   CHOCOLATE   WALNUT   JELLY. 
Dissolve  I  package  chocolate  Minute  Gelatine  (Flavored) 

in  i  pt.  hot  milk  and  set  to  cool.  When  beginning  to  con- 
geal beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  /2  cup  walnut  meats  and  V* 
dozen  figs  cut  tine.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

i  qt.  cranberries,  I  pt-  of  water. 

2  cups  sugar, 
Wash  the  cranberries,  put  water  and  berries  in  a  covered 
saucepan  over  the  fire.  Let  them  simmer  till  each  berry 
bursts  open.  Then  remove  the  cover  of  the  saucepan,  add 
the  sugar  and  let  them  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Cran- 
berries must  never  be  stirred  while  cooking. 

WINE    SAUCE. 

]/A  cup  butter,  Nutmeg  to  taste, 

t   cup  powdered  sugar,  2  teaspoons    Karo     corn- 

t  forr  starcn, 

i  cup  boiling  water,  Add  egg  well  beaten. 

y2  cup  wine, 
Cream   butter   and   sugar,  dissolve   cornstarch   in   a  little 
cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water  and  cook  five  minutes. 
Pour  this  over  the  butter  and  sugar  and  add  wine  and  nut- 
meg. 

CREAMY    SAUCE. 
14  CUp  butter.  S  teaspoons  cream, 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon    vanilla. 

Set  in  dish  of  hot  water  until  dissolved. 


Il8  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

PUDDING    SAUCE    (HARD    SAUCE). 

Yolk  of  i  egg,  YA  cup  butter, 

i  cup  powdered  sugar,  Vanilla  and  nutmeg. 

Mix  all  together  and  soften  with  a  little  boiling  water. 

PUDDING   SAUCE. 

i  cup  powdered  sugar,  White    of    i    egg   beaten 

Small  piece  of  butter,  stiff. 

Beat  all  together,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  nutmeg. 

GRAPE   FRUIT. 

Take  y2  grapefruit,  remove  the  center,  loosen  from  the 
skin,  fill  the  center  with  sugar  and  sherry.  Set  on  ice  before 
serving. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE  FOR  COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

i  cup  powdered  sugar,  i  cup  berries, 

i  tablespoon  butter. 
Mash  berries  fine.     Rub  the  butter  and  part  of  sugar  to- 
gether, add  part  of  berries,  then  sugar  and  berries  alternate- 
ly until  all  is  used.     Beat  thoroughly  and  set  on  ice  until 
time  to  serve. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 
i  pt.  sweet  milk,  2  eggs, 

2  cooking  spoons  of  gela-         y2  cup  sugar, 
tine,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cook  milk  and  gelatine  in  double  boiler  until  gelatine  is 
dissolved.  Rub  the  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar  and  vanilla  to- 
gether, stir  it  into  the  milk  and  cook  till  smooth ;  remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  pour  into  a  mould  to  harden.     Serve  with  cream. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM. 

1  tablespoon        powdered         Whites  of  4  eggs. 

gelatine,  1  cup  chopped  English 

1  cup  sugar,  walnuts, 

y2  cup  boiling  water,  Juice  y2  lemon. 


COLD    DESSERTS.  I  19 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  y2  cup  of  boiling  water.  When 
dissolved  fill  the  cup  with  cold  water,  pour  slowly  into  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice, 
beat  until  it  begins  to  set,  add  nuts  and  put  in  mould  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 

MOUNTAIN  DEW  PUDDING. 

3  crackers  rolled,  I  pt.  milk. 

Yolks  2  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar. 

Bake  one-half  hour.  Do  not  let  boil.  Serve  with  merin- 
gue made  with  whites  of  the  2  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar,  little  salt 
and  flavoring.     Spread  and  brown.     Serve  cold. 

ANGEL   PUDDING. 

2  cups  water,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar, 

Pinch   of  salt,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch. 

Whites  of  2  eggs, 
Boil  all  but  the  eggs  a  few  minutes,  then  remove  from  the 
fire  and  stir  in  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  boil  one 
minute  longer. 

SAUCE — Take  V/z  cups  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  sugar,  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla.     Cook  like  custard. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

Cook  fifteen  minutes  in  3  cups  coffee,  y2  cup  Minute  Tap- 
ioca, y2  cup  sugar  a^d  a  little  salt.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and 
serve  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 

MACAROON   CREAM. 

1  tablespoon    Knox   gela-         1  1-3  cup  stigar, 
tine,  54  cup  cold  water, 

2  cups  milk.  2  eggs, 

2-3   cup  powdered   maca-         1-8  teaspoon  salt. 
roons,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  water.  Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  milk  and  sugar  and  salt,  adding  gelatine  when 


120  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

dissolved.  Strain,  let  cool,  add  the  macaroons  and  vanilla 
and  stir  till  it  thickens ;  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  stiff  and  pour  in  form.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 
It  is  better  if  made  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  served. 

ORANGE    CHARLOTTE. 

1^2  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine, 

i  cup  sugar, 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  3  tablespoons    lemon 

Yz   cup  cold  water.  juice. 

J/2   cup   boiling  water.  1   cup    orange    juice    ana 

pulp. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  then  add 
boiling  water  to  dissolve.  When  dissolved  add  sugar, 
lemon  and  orange  juice.  Cool,  put  on  ice,  and  when  it  be- 
gins to  harden  beat  about  ten  minutes  with  tgg  beater,  then 
add  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

MOCHA    CREAM. 

t   cup  strong  coffee,  t   cup  rich  milk, 

V2  cup  sugar.  t  tablespoon   cocoa. 

1   tablespoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk. 

Cook  about  ten  minutes  in  double  boiler.      Serve  cold  with 

whipped  cream.     This    is    very    good    served    over    baked 

tapioca  pudding  and  makes  enough  for  three  or  four  people. 

PINEAPPLE    TAPIOCA. 

Boil  y2  cup  Minute  Tapioca  and  )A  cup  sugar  in  3  cups 
water  till  clear.  Pour  this  over  1  pt.  canned  pineapple. 
When  sufficiently  cold  decorate  the  top  of  pudding  with 
currant  jellv  and  serve  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

PINEAPPLE  JULEP. 

Cut  very  ripe  pineapple  in  four  and  remove  core.  Shred 
flesh  with  fork  and  scrape  from  skin  with  silver  knife.  Lay 
in  bowl  and  strain  over  it  juice  two  sweet  oranges.  Add  Y\ 


COLD    DESSERTS.  121 

pt.  raspberry  syrup,  ]/2  cup  Karo  Corn  Syrup.  Before  serv- 
ing, pour  over  cracked  ice. 

CHERRY  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

Soak  %  box  gelatine  in  1-3  cup  cold  water,  then  set  over 
hot  water  until  melted.  Whip  1  pt.  cream  solid,  gradually 
add  1-3  cup  powdered  sugar  and  the  melted  gelatine.  As 
it  thickens  add  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  2-3  cup  of  cherries 
soaked  in  sherry,  or  use  Maraschino  cherries.  Mould  in  in- 
dividual forms  and  serve  with  pink  frosted  cakes. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

juice  2  lemons,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  il/2  cups  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  Duryeas'  Cornstarch  and  y2  teaspoon  lemon  ex- 
tract. Boil  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Serve  with  sponge 
cake  or  crackers. 


122  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 


LOAF  CAKE. 


SUNSHINE    CAKE. 

II  yolks  of  eggs,  2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon   cream   tartar, 

3  cups  flour,  Yz  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  butter, 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  work  it  in  well ; 
add  eggs  well  beaten,  milk,  then  flour  and  flavor.  Dissolve 
soda  in  milk.  Sift  cream  tartar  in  flour.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

SUNSHINE    CAKE. 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  1  cup  sugar, 

Yolks  of  5  eggs,  ]4  cup  flour, 

1-3  teaspoon  cream  tar-  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

tar,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Sift  flour  and  sugar  separately  eight  or  nine  times.  Beat 
yolks  very  light  then  beat  the  whites  very  stiff.  When  the 
whites  are  beaten  a  little  add  the  salt.  When  beaten  till 
quite  foamy  add  the  cream  tartar.  When  whites  are  very 
stiff,  fold  in  the  sugar,  then  fold  in  the  yolks  and  seasoning, 
then  fold  in  the  flour,  folding  as  little  as  possible.  Bake 
from  45  to  60  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

QUICK    CAKE. 

1-3  cup  soft  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

2  eggs,  der, 

lY*  cups  brown  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

y2  cup  milk,  y2    lb.    dates    or    raisins. 

\Y\  cups  flour,  stoned  or  cut. 
y2  teaspoon  cinnamon. 


LOAF   CAKE.  1 23 

Put  all  ingredients  into  a  bowl  without  separate  mixing 
and  beat  thoroughly  for  three  minutes.  Bake  in  shallow 
pan,  ice  with  soft  frosting. 

ANGEL   CAKE. 

9  to  11  whites  of  eggs  (i  cup  whites), 

1  cup  pastry  flour  (sift  four  or  five  times  and  measure), 

1%  cups  sugar  (sift  several  times), 

1-8  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  almond  and  six  or  eight  drops  of  rose  or  i 
teaspoon  vanilla  and  %  teaspoon  lemon, 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar 
Method  of  mixing.  Chill  the  eggs  add  salt,  beat  with 
whisk  beater.  While  beating  add  cream  of  tartar,  beat  un- 
til light  but  not  stiff  and  dry.  That  makes  cake  more  moist 
if  not  beaten  too  much ;  add  sugar  gradually  while  beating 
add  flavoring,  fold  in  the  flour  with  as  few  strokes  as 
possible.     Bake  fifty  to  sixty  minutes. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE. 

Whites  of  9  large  eggs.  I  cup  flour, 

IJ4  cups  granulated  y2  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

sugar,  A  pinch  of  salt. 

Add  cream  tartar  and  salt  to  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
beat  very  stiff;  stir  sugar  in  thoroughly  and  flour  lightly, 
flavor  to  taste.  Bake  forty  to  sixty  minutes. 

WHITE  CAKE   WITH   YELLOW    FROSTING. 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  i  cup    granulated    sugar, 

1  teaspoon  baking  pow-  Butter  and  milk, 
der. 
Mix  flour,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together.  Break 
whites  of  2  eggs  into  measuring  cup  and  fill  cup  half  full 
with  warm  (not  melted)  butter,  then  fill  up  with  warm  milk. 
Put  all  together,  flavor  and  beat  five  minutes.  Add 
powdered  sugar  to  the  beaten  yolks  until  thick  enough  to 
spread  well  for  the  frosting. 


124  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  2]/2  cups  flour, 

i  cup  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

y2  cup  butter,  der. 
Whites  of  5  eggs. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  if  baked  in  one  loaf,  or  this  makes 
a  good  four  layer  cake. 

QUICK  CAKE. 

1-3  cup  soft  butter,  y2  cup  milk, 

2     eggs,  3  teaspoons    baking 

1 24  cups  flour,  powder  (level), 

y2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

1    1-3  cups  brown  sugar, 
y2  lb.  dates  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces. 
Put  all  the  ingredients  in  bowl  and  beat  three  minutes. 

Bake  in  loaf  thirty-five  or  forty  minutes.     Better  eaten  the 

day  it  is  baked. 

FRUIT  CAKE,  NO.  1. 
8  eggs,  1  lb.  sugar, 

1  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  flour, 

2  lbs.  citron,  2  lbs.  raisins, 

2  lbs.  currants,  2^2   teaspoons  cloves, 

2.y>  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2J/2  teaspoons  nutmeg, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  2   tablespoons   molasses. 

y2  cup  brandy, 
Mix  the  brandy,   molasses   and   spices   together  and   let 
stand  an  hour  before  mixing  the  cake.     Bake  in  a  loaf. 

WHITE    FRUIT    CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  y2  cup  butter, 
White  of  1  egg,  1  cup  milk, 

2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons     baking 
1  cup   raisins   and   sliced  powder, 

citron,  1  teaspoon   sherry. 


LOAF    CAKE. 


125 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  white  of  egg.  Flour  the 
fruit.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together.  Bake  in 
bread  tin  forty  to  fifty  minutes. 

FRUIT  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

1  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  brown  sugar, 

1  lb.  currants,  1  lb.  flour  (or  more), 

iT/2  lbs.  raisins,  l/2  lb.  citron, 

10   eggs,  1  nutmeg, 

1  teaspoon  cloves,  1   teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  small   tablespoon   soda.         r  tumbler  molasses. 
Bake  three  hours  in  a  pan  lined  with  paper. 

FRUIT  CAKE  UNCOOKED. 

3^2  lbs.  raisins,  3^  lbs.  dates, 

4  lbs.  figs,  5  lbs.  mixed  nuts. 
1  lb.  of  citron, 

Chop,  mix  and  press.     Use  plain  frosting. 

SPONGE   CAKE    (WITHOUT   WATER). 

5  eg§s   (beaten   separate-         1  cup  sugar, 

ly),  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 

1  cup  flour,  Bake  45  minutes. 
1-8  teaspoon  salt, 

Beat  the  yolks  till  yellow.  Beat  the  whites  till  dry  then 
add  sugar  to  the  whites ;  add  the  lemon  juice  to  the  yolks 
and  fold  in  the  whites,  then  fold  in  the  flour.  Put  into  very 
moderate  oven  and  after  it  begins  to  rise  increase  the  heat  a 
little. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  baking 
1  cup  granulated  sugar,  powder, 

1  cup  sifted  flour,  ^cup  hot  water. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  then  beat  in  the  sugar,  1  cup 
flour,  a  little  at  a  time,  then  the  second  cup  of  flour  into 
which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  and  last  the  hot 


126  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

water,  a  little  at  a  time.     Flavor  with  lemon  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven. 

PLAIN    CAKE. 

\y2  cups  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  1  cup  of  warm  water, 

2^2  cups  pastry  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 

1  teaspoon  lemon,  powder. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually  then  beat  in 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs;  add  the  water  and  seasoning.  Sift 
baking  powder  and  flour  together  and  add  to  the  mixture, 
beat  well,  then  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake 
in  a  loaf  or  it  will  make  three  layers. 

PORK    CAKE. 

1  cup    chopped    fat    salt        1  teaspoon  soda,  dis- 

pork,  solved  in  hot  water, 

1  cup  hot  water  or  coffee,         All  kinds  of  spices, 
1  cup  sugar,  Enough     flour    to    make 

1  cup  molasses,  stiff  enough  to  hold  up 

1  cup  chopped  raisins.  a  tablespoon. 
Simmer  the  pork  and  water  a  little  while,  then  add  other 

ingredients.  Bake  one  hour. 

POUND   CAKE. 

2  cups  flour,  l/2    teaspoon     baking 
94   cup  butter,  powder, 

V/2,  cups  sugar, 

Yz  cup  of  eggs  (3  or  4  according  to  size). 
Cream  butter  and  flour.     Beat  sugar  and  eggs  very  light. 
Put  all  together  and  bake  in  loaf. 

CARAMEL  CAKE  (INEXPENSIVE). 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  milk, 

1  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon    vanilla. 
Yolk  of  1  egg,                             Va  cup  flour  (scant), 
Y-2.  cup  of  milk,                             Vi  teaspoon  of  soda. 

2  squares  of  chocolate, 


LOAF    CAKE.  127 

Cook  chocolate  and  ^  cup  of  milk  till  thick  then  let  it 
cool.  Cream  butter,  sugar,  egg  and  the  other  y2  cup  of  milk 
and  stir  into  the  first  mixture.  Then  add  flour  in  which  a 
scant  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  sifted.  Bake  in  square  pan 
and  use  the  white  of  the  egg  for  boiled  frosting. 

ROLLED   JELLY    CAKE. 

4  eggs,  1  cup  sugar, 

i  teaspoon  baking  pow-  1   cup  flour. 

der,  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

Beat  the  yolks  and  add  the  sugar  gradually.  Beat  the 
whites  and  add  lightly  to  the  yolks.  Sift  flour  and  baking 
powder  together  and  add  it  slowly  to  the  batter  then  add 
2  tablespoons  of  hot  water.  Line  a  long  tin  with  buttered 
paper,  pour  in  the  mixture  to  the  depth  of  one-fourth  inch. 
Bake  for  eight  or  ten  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
done  remove  the  cake  from  the  pan,  tear  off  the  paper, 
spread  the  cake  with  jelly  or  melted  sweet  chocolate  and 
roll.  Roll  a  napkin  tightly  around  the  cake  to  keep  it  in  place 
till  cool. 

GOLD    CAKE. 

ji  cup  butter,  Yolks  4  eggs, 

1  cup  sugar,  l/2  cup  milk, 

1  teaspoon    baking    pow-          il/2  cups  pastry  flour, 
der, 
Bake  in  a  loaf  in  moderate  oven. 

ORANGE  CAKE,  NO.  1. 

1  cup  sugar,  1^4  cups  flour, 

1-3  cup  butter.  2  teaspoons   baking  pow- 

2  eggs,  der, 

JA  cup  milk,  Orange  peel  (grated). 

To  the  sugar,  butter,  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  milk,  add  the 
flour  slowly,  into  which  sift  the  baking  powder,  lastly  whites 
of  eggs.  Grate  in  orange  peel,  ice  with  a  cup  of  confec- 
tioners' sugar,  wet  with  orange  juice. 


128  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

ORANGE  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

%  cup  butter,  1   cup  milk, 

2      cups    fine    granulated  2    teaspoons  baking  pow- 

sugar,  der, 

4  eggs,  1  teaspoon      orange      ex- 

4  cups  pastry  flour,  tract. 

Cream  the  butter,  then  add  the  sugar  a  little  at  a  time  and 
stir  well  together.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  three  or 
four  times,  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  thfs  prepared  flour  to 
the  creamed  sugar  and  butter;  then  add  the  eggs  one  at  a 
time  without  first  having  beaten  them,  and  stir  thoroughly. 
Add  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  before  breaking  in  each  egg 
and  continue  adding  the  flour  alternately  with  the  milk. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.  The  beauty  of  this  cake  is  in  the 
amount  of  beating. 

FROSTING. — Mix  together  yolk  of  one  egg,  1  tablespoon 
of  water,  y2  teaspoon  orange  extract,  and  enough  confec- 
tioners' sugar  to  spread  well. 

APPLE   SAUCE   CAKE. 

i]/2   cups   sugar,  1^2    cups    unsweetened 

1  cup  raisins,  apple  sauce, 
t  teaspoon  cloves,                      y2  cup  butter, 

A  little  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cinnnamon, 

2  level  teaspoons  soda,  2  good  cups  flour. 
Bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven. 

CINNAMON    CAKE. 

1   cup  sugar,  1   egg, 

y2  cup  milk,  2  level   teaspoons   baking 

1^4  cups  flour,  powder. 

54  cup  butter, 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  milk,  the  beaten  egg, 
and  the  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together.  Bake  in 
a  biscuit   tin  from  twenty-five  to  thirty-five  minutes.     Be- 


LOAF    CAKE.  l2g 

fore  placing  in  the  oven  sprinkle  ground  cinnamon,  chopped 
nuts  and  granulated  sugar  over  the  top.     Cut  in  squares. 

COFFEE   CAKE. 

Yz   cup   sugar,  y2  cup  butter, 

i  egg,  i   cup  molasses, 

y2  cup  cold  coffee,  i  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

I  teaspoon   cinnamon,  y   teaspoon  nutmeg, 

2y2  cups  flour,  iy2      teaspoons      baking 

1  cup  fruit,  powder. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Sift  together  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Beat  the  egg  and  put  together  in  order  given. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  for  nearly  one  hour. 

SPICE  CAKE,  NO.  i. 

t  cup  sugar,  i  cup  raisins, 

y  cup  butter,  2  eggs, 

y  cup  sour  milk,  Y2   teaspoon   soda  in  the 
y  cup  molasses,  milk, 

Spice,  currants,  citron,  1  pt.  bread  flour. 

SPICE  CAKE,  NO.  2. 

y  cup  butter,  1   cup  sugar, 

2  eggs  beaten  separately  1     teaspoon    baking  pow- 


cup    coffee    (can    use  der, 

milk),  1  >4  cnps  pastry  flour, 

1   tablespoon  mixed  spice,  y  cup  raisins  cut  in  2  or 

y  cup  walnut  meats  (cut  3  pieces. 

fine). 

Cream  butter.  Add  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks,  add  wetting 
and  flour  alternately.  Put  the  baking  powder  in  the  last 
part  of  the  flour.  Add  the  *pice,  then  the  beaten  whites 
and  beat  vigorously.  Save  a  little  of  the  flour  to  flour  the 
nuts  and  fruit.  Fold  in  fruit  and  nuts.  Bake  in  loaf  about 
fortv-five  minutes. 


130  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

2  cups  dark  brown  sugar,         ?  cups  flour, 
Yz  cup  butter  (scant),  "  ]/2  cup  sour  milk, 

t   teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2   eggs,   leaving   out   one 

white, 
Y\  cake  of  chocolate  dissolved  in  hot  water ;  let  it  cool 
and  stir  in  last. 
FROSTING. — White  of  1  egg  not  beaten;  1  tablespoon 
cold  water,  enough  confectioners'  sugar  to  make  proper  con- 
sistency. 

WALNUT   SPICE   CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter, 

1  egg  (beaten),  1  cup  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves         1  cup  chopped  raisins, 

and  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

3/4    cup    chopped    walnut 

meats, 
Bake  in  a  loaf  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MOLASSES  SPONGE  CAKE. 

l/2  cup  molasses,  1  egg, 

y2  cup  shortening,  y2  cup  water, 

1  tablespoon  vinegar,  1  teaspoon    soda     (heap- 

2.y2  cups  flour  (pastry),  mg), 

y2  cup  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  ginger. 

Bake  in  gem  pans. 

GINGERBREAD. 

2  tablespoons  melted  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
butter   or   drippings,  1   egg, 

24     cup     molasses     (dark         y2  cup  sour  milk, 
molasses),  2  cups  flour, 


LOAF   CAKE.  131 

i  teaspoon  soda,  y>  teaspoon  cloves. 

1  teaspoon  ginger, 

Mix  as  a  plain  batter.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

SOFT   GINGERBREAD. 

y2  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  butter. 

]/2  cup  sugar,  x/z  cup  sour  cream, 

y2  tablespoon  ginger,  t   egg, 

y2  dessert  spoon  soda.  Ground    spice    according 

1  pt.  sifted  flour,  to  taste. 

Mix  butter  and   sugar  to  a   cream,   then   add   the   other 
ingredients. 

OLIVE'S   GINGERBREAD. 

2  tablespoons   melted         1  teaspoon  soda, 
butter,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  cup  molasses.  2-3  cup  hot  water, 

y2  teaspoon  ginger,  1   teaspoon   cinnamon, 

1  egg,  1  teaspoon  allspice. 
Dissolve    soda    in    hot    water,    mix    ingredients    in    order 

given  ;  add  enough  flour  to  make  the  batter  thicker  than 
pancake  batter.     Bake  in  a  sheet  pan. 

JERSEY    CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  milk, 

3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
3  cups  flour,  der, 

t   teaspoon  lemon,  1   tablespoon  molasses, 

1   cup  chopped  raisins,  Currant  jelly, 

2-3  cup  butter, 

y2  teaspoon  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  milk  and 
flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together.  Flavor  two-thirds 
of  the  batter  with  the  lemon  and  bake  in  two  layers.  To 
the  other  third  add  the  molasses,  raisins  and  spice  and  bake 
in  one  layer.  Put  the  three  cakes  together  with  currant 
jelly  placing  the  spice  cake  in  the  center. 


I32  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

A  GOOD  ONE  EGG  CAKE. 

i   cup  sugar,  i  egg, 

i  cup  milk,  2.  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

2  cups  Hour,  der. 

Seasoning, 

2  tablespoons     butter 
(melted), 

Bake  in  three  layers.  And  use  cocoanut  cream  rilling  or 
lemon  filling. 

DATE   CAKE. 

iJ/2  cups  sugar.  3  eggs — reserve  whites 

l/2  cup  butter,  of  2  for  filling, 

1   cup  milk,  2  teaspoons   baking  pow- 

2l/2  cups  flour,  der. 

FILLING — Stone  1  lb.  dates  and  chop  fine,  add  1  table- 
spoon lemon  juice  and  stir  into  the  boiled  icing  (made  of  2 
cups  of  sugar,  6  tablespoons  of  water  and  the  2  whites  of 
eggs)  after  it  is  cool  and  ready  to  spread. 

DEFOREST  LAYER  CAKE. 
DARK  PART. 

y2  cup  brown  sugar,  Yolks  of  2  eggs, 

l/2  cup  sour  milk,  t   cup  chopped  raisins, 

J/2  teaspoon   nutmeg,  y>  teaspoon   cinnamon, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1   cup  flour, 

y2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk. 
Bake  in  one  layer. 

LIGHT   PART. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar,  Whites  of  3  eggs, 

y2  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

2  scant  cups  of  flour,  der, 

y2  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Bake  in  two  layers. 


LOAF    CAKE.  1 33 

Lemon  Jelly  for  filling. 
1   lemon,  i     cup  sugar, 

Yolk  of  1  egg,  1   cup  cold  water, 

1  dessert  spoon  cornstarch. 

Boil  till  thick.  Put  cake  together  with  the  dark  layer  in 
the  center;  this  cake  will  keep  moist  a  week  or  more. 

PLAIN    LAYER    CAKE. 

2  eggs,   (separate),  i   cup  sugar, 
j4  cup  melted  butter,  y2  cup  milk, 

1^2  cups  pastry  flour,  t   teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar  and  V2  teaspoon  soda  or  1^ 
teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Beat  yolks,  add  sugar  then  the  softened  butter.  Add  the 
milk  and  flour  alternately  and  add  the  baking  powder  with 
the  last  ]/2  cupful  of  flour;  arid  flavoring  and  last  of  all  the 
beaten  whites.  Beat  well  after  adding  the  whites  but  do 
not  stir.     Bake  in  layer  pans  or  in  a  sheet  twenty  minutes. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar, 

3^2   cups  flour,  1   cup  sweet  milk. 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  2  level   teaspoons   baking 

1   teaspoon  rose  water,  powder. 

Bake  in  three  layers  and  use  this  filling: — 

3  cups  granulated  sugar,  1   cup  chopped  raisins, 
Whites  3  eggs,  1   cup    chopped    pecan 
5  figs  cut  in  thin  strips,  nuts. 

1   cup  boiling  water, 

Boil  sugar  and  water  til1  it  threads,  then  pour  gradually 
over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  stirring  constantly, 
then  add  raisins,  nuts  and  figs. 

PERFECT  LAYER  CAKE. 

1   cup  butter,  1^2  cups  sifted  Hour. 

t^4  cups  sugar,  x/i    cup   Karo   cornstarch. 


134  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

4  eggs,  2  level  teaspoons  baking 

i  teaspoon  vanilla,  powder. 

y2  cup  milk, 

Mix  cornstarch  and  baking-  powder  with  the  flour,  cream 
the  butter,  add  sugar,  and  when  well  mixed  add  the  well 
beaten  yolks  and  the  flavoring.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  then 
add  milk  and  flour  alternately  and  lastly  the  whites.  Bake 
in  three  shallow  pans  in  moderate  oven.  Use  receipt  for 
coffee  filling. 

PEACH    CAKE. 

3  eggs,  i  cup  sugar, 

y2  cup  cold  water,  ?  cups  flour, 

2  teaspoons  baking  pow-  Seasoning, 
der, 

Beat  eggs  hard  for  five  mintues,  add  sugar  and  beat  three 
minutes,  then  add  water,  flour  and  baking  powder  and  bake 
in  two  deep  round  tins.  Split  each  cake  and  spread  with 
cut-up  peaches ;  sprinkle  with  fine  sugar  and  cover  with 
whipped  cream.  Put  on  the  top  cake  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  serve  as  a  dessert.  Omit  the  peaches,  use 
more  cream  flavored  with  cherry  or  vanilla  and  serve  as 
Cream  Cake  with  pieces  of  jelly  on  the  top  of  the  cake. 

DARK   CHOCOLATE    CAKE. 

i  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  butter, 

1  egg,  t   cup  milk, 

2  scant  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
1  cup  grated  chocolate,  der. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
together.  Bake  in  two  layers.  Put  together  with  boiled 
frosting. 

DEVIL    FOOD. 

Yolk  1  egg,  2  squares  chocolate, 

y2  cup  strong  coffee  1  cup  brown  sugar. 


LOAF    CAKE.  135 

Stir  these  together,  cook  until  smooth  and  let  cool. 
1  cup  brown  sugar.  Scant  y2  cup  butter, 

1   egg  and  yolk  of  another,         y2  cup  strong  coffee. 
1  cup  flour, 

Stir  this  together,  then  add  the  boiled  part,  and 
1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  i  teaspoon  milk, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  i  teaspoon  powdered 

1  cup  flour.  charcoal. 
Bake  in  two  layers. 

FILLING — 1  cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  white  sugar,  i  cup 
water,  I  tablespoon  vinegar.  Boil  together  until  it  thickens, 
then  stir  into  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  beat 
very  stiff. 

MOCHA  CAKE. 

2  eggs,  (beaten  light).  Pinch  of  salt, 
i1/*   teaspoons  baking         1   cup  sugar, 

powder,  1  cup  flour. 

Lastly  add  l/2  cup  of  boiling  milk,  into  which  1  teaspoon 
of  butter  has  been  melted. 

FILLING — Take  l/\  cup  of  butter,  creamed,  1  teaspoon 
cocoa,  1  heaping  cup  confectioners'  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanil- 
la, 2  tablespoons  strong  coffee. 

Mix  with  spoon  and  spread  between  layers  and  over  the 
top. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  t   cup  milk, 

3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

2  cups   flour,  der. 
1-3  cup  butter, 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs. 
milk  and  flour  in  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted, 
then  the  well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  reserving  one  white 
for  the  frosting.  Bake  in  two  tins  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes. 


I36  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

2  squares  of  chocolate,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar, 

}4  cup  boiling  water,  l  teaspoon    vanilla. 

Boil  this  stirring  often  until  smooth,  thick  and  glossy;  add 
the  beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  vanilla;  spread  on  the  cake 
when  it  is  cool  using  more  confectioners'  sugar  to  thicken 
the  frosting  if  it  seems  too  thin. 

BLACK    CHOCOLATE    CAKE. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar.  t  teaspoon  saleratus  dis- 

y2  cup  sour  milk,  solved  in   milk, 

1  cup  grated  chocolate.  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
dissolved  in  1  cup  of  der, 

hot  coffee.  Yolks     of    3     eggs,     well 
t   large  tablespoon  butter,  beaten  and  added  the 

2  cups  flour,  last  thing. 
Bake  in  two  layers. 

Whites  For  Boiled  Frosting. — Add  1  cup  walnut  meats 
chopped  fine  and  2  cnps  sugar. 

DELICATE    LAYER    CAKE. 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  sugar, 

l/X   cup  butter,  2  large  teaspoons  baking 

2.y2  cups  flour,  powder, 

■kj  cup  milk,  r  teaspoon  lemon. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  milk  ;  sift  flour  and  baking 
powder  together,  add  flavonng  and  last  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Stir  carefully  after  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  are  put  in.  This  makes  three  layers  and  is  very  nice 
with  lemon  filling  or  whipped  cream  filling. 


CAKE    FILLING    AND    FROSTING.  1 37 


Cake  Filling  and  Frosting. 


COCOANUT    CREAM    FILLING. 

1  egg,  Ya  cup  milk, 

1  heaping  tablespoon  Ya  cup  sugar, 

flour,  1   teaspoon  seasoning. 

Cook  in  double  boiler  till  thick  and  smooth ;  a  cup  of 
grated  cocoanut  may  be  added  if  desired,  then  put  a  little  of 
the  filling  on  the  top  of  the  cake  and  sprinkle  cocoanut  thick- 
ly over  it. 

LEMON    FILLING. 

1  lemon,  grated  rind  and         i  tablespoon  flour, 

juice,  1   egg   and    yolks    of   two 

1  cup  sugar,  more. 

Y  cup  water. 

Beat  flour,  sugar  and  eggs  together,  add  the  lemon  and 
water  and  cook  ;  if  to  be  used  for  filling  for  a  large  cake 
double  this  receipt. 

COFFEE   FILLING. 

1  cup  boiling  water,  3  tablespoons  ground  cof- 
A  little  milk,  fee, 

Yi  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  very  heaping  table- 
A  small  piece  of  butter,  spoon  of  flour, 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  1   teaspoon  vanilla. 

Pour  hot  water  over  coffee.  Strain  and  pour  back  into 
the  cup  and  fill  up  the  cup  with  milk.  Beat  eggs,  sugar  aim 
flour  together  till  it  will  run  from  the  spoon.  Scald  in  milk 
and  coffee  till  thick  like  cream.  Add  butter  and  vanilla. 
When  cold  put  between  layers  of  cake.  Put  boiled  frosting 
on  top  made  with  coffee  instead  of  water. 


I38  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

WHIPPED   CREAM   FILLING. 

1  pt.  cream  (whipped),  ]/2  cup  pulverized  sugar, 

2  squares  chocolate  1  .teaspoon  vanilla, 
(melted), 

Stir  sugar  into  whipped  cream,  add  chocolate  and  vanilla 
and  enough  pulverized  sugar  to  make  it  the  consistency  of 
frosting.     Spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  the  cake. 

ALMOND   FILLING  AND   FROSTING. 

Use  the  receipt  for  boiled  frosting  and  add  J/2  cup  of 
blanched  and  chopped  almonds  and  a  little  almond  extract. 

COCOANUT    FILLING   AND   FROSTING. 

Make  a  boiled  frosting  and  stir  in  y2  cup  of  cocoanut  and 
sprinkle  cocoanut  on  the  top  of  the  frosting. 

COCOANUT   AND    RAISIN   FILLING. 

1   cup     raisins,     chopped         Yi  cup  almonds, 
fine,  White  of  egg. 

Yi  cup  cocoanut,  (grated) 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

2  ozs.  chocolate,  1  cup  boiling  water, 

t  tablespoon    Karo   corn-         ^4  cup  sugar, 

starch,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  tablespoon  butter, 
Cook  until  smooth. 

NUT    FILLING. 

1  cup  chopped  raisins,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  cup  milk,  Little  salt. 

1  egg, 
Cook  milk,  egg,  sugar  and  salt  together,  thickened  with 
little  cornstarch.     After  it  has  cooled,  flavor  and  add  nuts 
and  raisins.     Spread  between  layer  cake. 


CAKE    FILLING   AND   FROSTING.  1 39 

CHOCOLATE  NUT  FILLING. 

Yi  cup  sugar,  i  square    chocolate 

White  of  i  egg  (beaten),  melted. 

*4  cup  water, 
Boil  sugar  and  water  till  it  threads.   Pour  over  the  egg. 
Add  the  chocolate  and  stir  till  thick  enough  to  spread. 

FRUIT  FILLING  FOR  CAKE,  NO.  i. 

Take  z/2  cup  each  of  nuts,  cherries  and  raisins,  i  cup  sugar, 
y2  cup  water,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Boil  sugar  and  water  until 
it  hairs,  pour  it  over  the  beaten  whites  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Then  add  nuts  and  fruits. 

FILLING   FOR   CAKE. 

1   cup  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  milk, 

1  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

1  tablespoon  butter, 
Cook  sugar,  milk  and  butter  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
remove  from  stove,  add  nuts  and  stir  till  it  creams. 

BOILED  FROSTING,  NO.  1. 

1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  water, 

White  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  seasoning. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  about  eight  minutes  or  until  the 
syrup  hairs  when  dropped  from  the  spoon.  Have  ready  the 
white  of  the  egg  beaten  stiff.  Ponr  the  syrup  slowly  over 
the  egg  stirring  constantly.  Flavor  and  use  when  thick 
enough  not  to  run. 

FIG    FROSTING. 

Make  a  boiled  frosting  and  add  1  cup  of  chopped  figs. 
Boil  together  l/2  lb.  of  chopped  figs,  1  cup  sugar  and  y2  cup 
water  till  soft  and  smooth.  Flavor  with  orange  or  lemon 
juice. 

MAPLE  SUGAR   FROSTING. 

Boil  2  cups  of  maple  cyrup  or  1  cup  brown  sugar  with  l/\ 
cup  of  water  until  it  hairs  v  hen  dropped  from  spoon.     Re- 


14°  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

move  from  the  tire  and  pour  slowly  upon  the  beaten  white 
of  an  egg  stirring  all  the  time.  Stir  till  stiff  enough  to 
spread. 

UNCOOKED    FROSTING. 

1  cup  fine  powdered  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  hot  water  or  milk. 

Mix  and  spread  on  cake  smooth  with  a  knife  wet  in 
cold  water.  This  frosting  makes  a  good  foundation  for 
mocha,  coffee  and  chocolate  frostings  by  adding  butter  and 
cocoa  and  substituting  coffee  for  milk. 

BOILED  FROSTING,  NO.  2. 

l/2  cup  granulated  sugar, 

Yi  teaspoon  lemon  extarct  or  \\A  teaspoons  lemon  juice, 

34  cup  water, 

"White  of  1  egg. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan  till  the  syrup  boils. 
Then  boil  it  without  stirring  till  it  threads.  A  little  before 
it  reaches  this  point  beat  the  white  of  egg  stiff.  When 
the  syrup  threads  turn  it  into  the  egg  in  a  fine  stream  beat- 
ing till  smooth  but  not  thick  enough  to  drop.  Flavor  and 
pour  over  cake  spreading  with  a  knife.  If  beaten  too  long- 
thin  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  water  and  wet  the 
knife  in  cold  water. 

FRUIT  FILLING,  NO.  2. 

4  tablespoons  chopped  citron, 

4  tablespoons  fine  chopped  raisins, 
T4  lb.  fine  chopped  figs, 
l/2  cup  tine  chopped  blanched  almonds. 
Whites  of  3  eggs, 
V2  cupful  pulverized  sugar. 

Beat  eggs  very  stiff,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  other  ingre- 
dients and  spread  between  the  layers  of  cake  while  they  are 
hot. 


CAKE    FILLING    AND    FROSTING.  «4! 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING,  NO.  i. 

i   cup  powdered  sugar,  Butter  size  of  an  egg, 

2  tablespoons  coffee,  Vi  teaspoon  vanilla, 

2  tablespoons  cocoa, 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING,  NO.  2. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

5  tablespoons  milk, 
Boil  five  minutes  and  pour  on  1  square  of  melted  choco- 
late. 

MOCHA   FROSTING. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  tablespoon    melted 

2  teaspoons    strong   boil-  butter, 

ing  coffee,  2  teaspoons      cocoa      or 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  chocolate. 

Add  hot  coffee  to  sugar,  butter,  cocoa  and  flavoring. 


142  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 


Small  Cakes  and  Cookies. 


FRIED  CAKES. 

6  eggs,  6  tablespoons  butter, 

i  teaspoon  of  cream  tar-        12  tablespoons  sugar, 

tar,  Vanilla  and  flour. 

y2  teaspoon  soda, 
Roll  rather  thin  and  cook  in  hot  fat. 

COCOANUT  BALLS. 

Cut  angel  or  nice  white  cake  in  small  squares  and  roll  in 
icing  then  in  grated  cocoanut. 

BROWNIES. 

1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter, 

2  eggs,  2  squares  chocolate, 
y>  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon    vanilla. 
1  cup  nuts  chopped  fine, 

Pour  into  a  large  pan  after  mixing,  and  bake  until  done, 
then  cut  in  squares. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

Rub  x/z  cup  butter  with  a  pint  of  flour,  y2  teaspoon  ginger 
and  a  little  salt.  Mix  well  with  y2  cup  molasses.  Roll  thin 
and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

HERMITS. 

ij^  cups  sugar,  namon,  cloves  and  all- 

y2  cup  butter,  spice, 

3  eggs  well  beaten,  y2     teaspoon     soda     dis- 
1  cup  raisins  chopped  solved  in   1   tablespoon 

fine,  boiling  water, 

y2  cup  citron  chopped  Flour  enough  to  make 

fine,  stiff. 
1    teaspoon    each    of    cin- 


SMALL   CAKES   AND   COOKIES.  1 43 

RAISIN    COOKIES. 

i   cup  sugar,  I   teaspoon  vanilla, 

l   eo.g?  y2  cup  lard  or  butter, 

3  teaspoons  baking  pow-         V'2   cup  milk, 
der,  3^  C"PS  flour- 

RAISIN    COOKY    FILLING. 

1  large  cup  of  raisins  XA  cup  boiling  water, 

chopped   fine,  2  teaspoons  flour. 

y2  cup  sugar. 
Cook  till  it  thickens.  Roll  cookies  thin.     Cut  them  out. 
Put   on    one   teaspoon    of   filling,   cover   with   another    thin 
cooky   and  bake. 

HERMITS. 

1  cup  molasses,  I  teaspoon   soda, 

y2  cup  sugar,  Flour  enoueh  to  make  a 

1   egg  beaten.  soft  dough, 

y2      teaspoon      each      of  J/>  cup  butter, 

cloves,    cinnamon    and         J/>  cup  milk, 
nutmeg,  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

Drop  in  spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  quickly  or 
add  more  flour  to  stiffen.  Roll  VA  "^  in  thickness  and  cut 
with  a  small  cutter. 

PEANUT    MACAROONS. 

1  cup  chopped  peanuts,  I   cup  powdered  sugar, 

t   large  tablespoon  flour,         Whites  of  2  eggs. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  mix,  drop  on  buttered 
paper.     Bake  a  light  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SOUR   MILK    COOKIES. 

1  cup  lard,  t   cup  sour  milk, 

„  po.o.Q  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 

2  cups  sugar,  der- 

1  teaspoon  soda.  Season  with  nutmeg  or  lemon. 


144  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 

SUGAR    COOKIES. 

il/2  cups  sugar,  2   eggs> 

1  CUp  lard>  X  cup' sweet  milk. 

Add  a  little  flour,  then  i  teaspoon  of  soda  dry,  and  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  nutmeg  and  salt.  Add  more  flour 
to  roll. 

OATMEAL  CRISPS. 

&t"  72  cup  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  y2  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
1  heaping  cup  of  dry  oat-  der. 

meal, 

Mix  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  and  oatmeal  mixed  with 
baking  powder.  Flour  the  hands  before  trying  to  form  the 
cakes.     Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

2  eggs  (not  beaten),  der, 

3  cups  oatmeal,  y4  teaspoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  l  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Roll  out  thin  and  bake. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar,  r  cup  Jard> 

I72  cups  molasses,  1  egg. 

1  teaspoon  ginger. 

Add  1  cup  of  flour  before  putting  in  1  cup  sour  milk,  and 
3  teaspoons  soda. 

Add  flour  sufficient  to  roll  out  nicely. 

SHREWSBURY  CAKES. 

1  lb.  flour,  34  lb.  sugar, 

Ya  lb.  butter,  4  eggs, 

1   nutmeg,  r_3  cup  sherry  or  brandy. 

1  cup  currants, 

Drop  from  spoon  and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven. 


SMALL    CAKES    AND    COOKIES.  145 

MARSH  MALLOW  MARGUERITES. 

Slightly  butter  thin  unsweetened  crackers ;  put  marsh- 
mallow  in  the  center  with  a  tiny  piece  of  butter  on  top. 
Place  in  oven  long  enough  for  the  marshmallow  to  melt 
and  spread  and  brown  a  little  on  top. 

MARGUERITES,   NO.  i. 

i  cup  brown  sugar.  1-3  teaspoon  baking  pow- 

*4  teaspoon  salt,  der, 

t  cup  pecan  nuts,  2  eggs  slightly  beaten 

y2  cup  sifted  flour, 
Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar,  salt,  flour  and  baking  pow- 
der, lastly  the  chopped  nut  meats.  Butter  round  gem  pans 
very  generously,  put  one  teaspoon  of  mixture  in  each  pan, 
bake  until  done.  English  walnuts  can  be  used  instead  of 
pecans,  and  they  are  nicer  to  put  one  whole  nut  meat  on 
top  of  cake  before  baking.      (No  frosting). 

MARGUERITES,   NO.   2. 

Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten         1  cup  powdered  sugar, 
stiff,  1    cup  nuts  chopped   fine. 

Mix  together  and  spread  on  butter  thins,  and  brown  in 
the  oven  lightly. 


146  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 


Ice  Creams,  Sherbets  and 
Beverages. 


CAFE   MOUSSE,   NO.  1. 

1  tablespoon  gelatine,  1  cup  strong  coffee, 

\]/2  cups  cream,  1  cup  sugar. 

Whites  of  2  eggs, 

Soak  gelatine  in  water  enough  to  cover  and  when  dis- 
solved pour  it  into  the  coffee. 

Whip  the  cream  and  sugar  till  a  little  stiff.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  when  gelatine  begins  to  thicken  beat 
it  into  the  eggs.  When  foaming  stir  with  the  cream  and 
sugar.  Put  in  a  mould  and  pack  with  salt  and  ice  and  let 
stand  four  or  five  hours. 

COFFEE  MOUSSE. 

Add  y2  cup  clear  black  coffee  and  2-3  cup  powdered 
sugar  to  1  pt.  of  cream.  Peat  the  mixture  until  it  is  solid 
to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  Turn  it  into  a  mould  lined 
with  paper,  filling  the  mould  to  overflowing.  Spread  a 
paper  over  the  top  of  the  cream,  put  on  the  cover,  and  pack 
in  equal  measures  of  crushed  ice  and  salt  for  two  or  three 
hours.  Serve  in  slices  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream 
on  top. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE. 

1  cup  maple  syrup,  4  eggs, 

1  pt.  cream. 

Heat  the  syrup,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  cook  until 
it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  When  cold  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  and  the  cream  whipped.  Turn  into  mould, 
pack  in  ice  and  salt. 


ICE   CREAMS,    SHERBETS    AND    BEVERAGES.  147 

.CAFE   MOUSSE,   NO.   2. 

\y2  cups  rich  cream,  t   cup  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  gelatine,  Whites  of  2  eggs. 

t  cup  strong  coffee, 
Soak  1  tablespoon  gelatine  in  water  to  cover,  pour  on  it 
1  cup  strong  coffee  (hot).  Whip  cream  until  stiff,  add 
sugar.  When  the  gelatine  and  coffee  begin  to  stiffen,  beat 
it  into  the  whites  of  2  eggs  already  beaten  stiff.  When 
foaming  beat  with  cream  and  sugar.  Put  in  moulds  or  pail 
and  pack  in  a  pail  of  salt  and  ice,  and  let  it  stand  four  01 
five  hours. 

ICE  CREAM,  NO.   1. 
1  pt.  cream,    e  1  cup  milk, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Pour  into  freezer  and  pack  using  three  parts  finely 
crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock  salt.  When  the  cream  is  hard 
remove  the  beater.  Pack  the  cream  in  a  mould  putting  a 
piece  of  paraffine  paper  over  the  top  Put  on  the  cover  and 
sink  the  mould  in  ice  and  salt  for  one  hour  longer.  This 
amount  makes  one  quart. 

FROZEN    PUDDING,   NO.    1. 

Flavor  the  above  receipt  with  one  tablespoon  of  Mara- 
schino or  Madeira  wine  and  when  nearly  frozen  add  I  cup 
of  candied  fruits  cut  into  bits  and  soaked  in  wine. 

FROZEN    PUDDING,    NO.    2. 

1  quart  milk.  t  quart  cream, 

2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs, 

y2  cup  flour  (scant),  1-3  box  gelatine. 

One  pound  candied  cherries  cut  in  halves  and  soaked  in 
sherry  wine  over  night  or  longer  if  convenient.  Cover 
gelatine  with  water  two  hours  before  wanted.  Rub  the 
flour  smooth  in  a  little  of  the  milk.  Let  the  rest  of  the 
milk  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  to- 
gether and  stir  in  the  boiling  milk  and  cook  twenty  minutes 


148  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

stirring  constantly,  then  add  the  gelatine.  When  cold  add 
the  whipped  cream  and  the  wine  from  the  cherries  if  any 
is  left.  Freeze  ten  minutes  then  add  the  cherries  and 
finish.     This  makes  four  quarts. 

ICE   CREAM,   NO.   2. 

5  pts.  milk,  yA  cup  cornstarch. 

7  eggs,  Sugar  and  flavoring. 

For  1  gal.  of  cream  put  1  qt.  of  milk  on  the  stove  to  heat. 
When  this  comes  to  the  boiling  point  stir  in  the  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  cook  thoroughly.  Have 
ready  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar  well  beaten. 
Into  this  stir  the  milk  and  cornstarch,  being  sure  *he  corn- 
starch is  well  cooked,  and  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  until  all 
is  cooked  and  looks  frothy.  While  it  is  still  hot  beat  in  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  rest  of  the 
milk,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste  and  freeze. 

ICE    CREAM.     (VERY    NICE.) 
3  pts.  milk,  3  tablespoons      powdered 

T4  lb.  sugar,  arrowroot. 

t  pt.   cream, 
Scald  the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  then  arrowroot  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  milk.     Cook  until  it  thickens  slightly.     Strain 
and  when   cold  add  cream,  and  flavoring  of  any  kind,  and 
freeze. 

COFFEE    ICE    CREAM. 
r   qt.  cream,  1   cup  sugar, 

1   cup  milk,  l/2  cup  strong  coffee. 

Whites  of  2  eggs, 
Mix  all  together,  adding  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff 
last.     Freeze  as  usual. 

GRAPE   JUICE    SHERBERT   WITH    WHIPPED 
CREAM. 

One-fourth  package  Lemon  Minute  Gelatine  (Flavored), 

1   qt.   water,   1   pt.   sugar,   1   pt.   grape  juice,  the  juice  of  2 


ICE   CREAMS,    SHERBETS    AND    BEVERAGES.  [49 

lemons.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar  fifteen  minutes;  add  the 
Gelatine  (Flavored)  and,  when  cold,  the  grape  and  lemon 
juice,  and  strain  into  the  can  of  the  freezer;  freeze  as  usual. 
Serve  in  cups  with  a  spoonful  whipped  .cream  on  the  top  of 
each  cup. 

GRAPE    ICE. 
To  1  pt.  prepared  grape  juice  add  enough  sugar  and  Karo 
Corn  Syrup  in  the  proportion  of  one  of  the  latter  to  two  of 
the  former,  to  make  quite  sweet.     To  this  put  beaten  whites 
of  four  eggs  just  before  freezing.     Freeze  as  ice  cream. 

CHOCOLATE    ICE    CREAM. 

1  qt.  cream,  2  eggs, 

1  pt.  milk,  \]/2  cups  sugar, 

2  squares  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Melt  chocolate  with  part  of  the  sugar.  Beat  yolks  of 
eggs  with  remainder  of  sugar.  Heat  milk,  add  chocolate, 
sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler  five  minutes. 
When  cold  add  cream,  vanilla  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff. 

PEACH   ICE   CREAM. 

Slice  ripe  peaches  and  force  through  a  puree  strainer  or 
colander.  To  2  cupfuls  of  peach  pulp  add  1  cupful  of  sugar, 
and  let  stand  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add  gradually 
while  stirring  constantly,  y2  pt.  of  heavy  cream,  y2  pt.  rich 
milk  and  a  few  grains  of  salt.  Freeze,  using  three  parts  finely 
crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock  salt.  Turn  crank  slowly  at 
first,  and  near  the  end  of  freezing  turn  more  rapidly. 

COFFEE   PARFAIT. 

1  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  strong  coffee. 

1  pt.  of  cream, 
Whip  the  cream,  add  sugar  and  coffee,  pack  in  ice  and 
salt  for  two  or  three  hours. 

RASPBERRY  PARFAIT. 

1   cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  raspberry  juice. 

1   pt.  cream, 


150  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 

Whip  cream,  add  sugar  and  fruit  juice ;  pack  in  ice  and 
salt  for  two  or  three  hours. 

SULTANA  ROLL  WITH  CLARET  SAUCE. 

Line  1  lb.  baking  powder  boxes  with  pistachio  ice  cream. 
Sprinkle  with  Sultana  raisins  which  have  been  soaked  one 
hour  in  brandy.  Fill  centers  with  vanilla  ice  cream  or 
whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Pack 
in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  two  hours. 

CLARET   SAUCE. 

1  cup  sugar,  l/A   cup  water. 

1-3  cup  claret, 
Boil  sugar  and  water  eight  minutes,  cool  and  add  claret. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE. 

34  cake  Baker's  chocolate,         Y  cup  powdered  sugar, 

Yi   cup  boiling  water. 
Boil  on  stove,  stirring  con=tantly  until  it  thickens.     One- 
half  cup  chopped  English  walnuts  is  an  improvement.    Add 
them  just  before  pouring  on  ice  cream.     Use  quite  hot. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  TO  SERVE  WITH 
ICE  CREAM. 

Put  6  oz.  chocolate  in  a  saucepan  with  4  ozs.  sugar,  melt 
it  over  the  teakettle  and  b^t  with  a  spoon  until  perfectly 
smooth,  gradually  adding  a  small  glassful  of  hot  water, 
very  little  at  a  time.  Boil  this  slowly,  pour  in  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  cream.  Serve  hot.  This  should  serve  twenty-five 
persons. 

RUGBY    CHOCOLATE   SAUCE. 

y2  cup  sugar,  %  cup  water, 

t  square  chocolate,  ^2  teaspoon  vanilla, 

3/2  cup  good  cream. 
Boil  sugar  and  water  to  t>  syrup  then  add  chocolate,  va- 
nilla and  cream.     Serve  hot  over  vanilla  ice  cream. 


ICE    CREAMS,    SHERBETS    AND    BEVERAGES.  I  5  I 

STRAWBERRY    SAUCE. 

Clean  and  mash  a  quart  of  berries.  Heat  and  strain  them 
through  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth.  Add  i  cup  of  sugar  and 
boil  down  to  a  thick  syrup.     Serve  cold  over  ice  cream. 

HOT   COFFEE  SAUCE. 

1  cup  strong  coffee,  i  cup  sugar. 

%.  cup  water, 
Boil  sugar  and  water  together  two  or  three  minutes,  then 
add  the  coffee  and  boil  to  a  syrup.     Serve  hot  over  vanilla 
ice  cream. 

TEA. 

Green  and  black  mixed  as  you  like.  One  teasponful  for 
each  person ;  place  the  dry  tea  in  the  teapot  and  let  stand 
five  or  six  minutes  on  back  of  stove,  until  leaves  smell  and 
exhale  quite  a  fragrance  when  you  lift  the  teapot  cover,  then 
put  in  about  half  the  quantity  of  boiling  water  needed  (the 
water  should  have  just  come  to  the  boil),  then  steep  five 
minutes,  then  add  the  rest  of  boiling  water,  and  steep  five 
minutes  more. 

COFFEE. 

First,  the  coffeepot  must  be  bright  and  clean  and  the 
water  fresh  and  cold.  Put  in  a  bowl  fine  freshly-ground 
coffee — one  tablespoon  for  each  cup  and  one  for  the  pot. 
Wash  a  fresh  egg  and  beat  it,  shell  and  all,  with  the  coffee, 
adding  cold  water  gradually  until  the  number  of  cups  you 
wish  to  serve  are  all  used.  Then  add  half  a  pint  more  to 
allow  for  soaking  up  the  coffee.  Put  over  a  clear  fire  and 
heat  to  just  below  the  boiling  point.  Draw  back  and  let  it 
stand  a  few  minutes  where  it  will  not  quite  boil,  but  keep 
very  hot.  When  it  ha*  settled  and  clarified  it  is  done. 
Have  milk  heated — not  boiled — let  the  cups  stand  a  mo- 
ment in  hot  water  to  prevent  cooling  the  coffee.  The  milk 
or  cream  and  sugar  should  *;e  put  in  the  cup  first  and  then 
the  hot  coffee  added.      Keep  the  pot  tightly  covered  while 


I52  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

making  the  coffee,  as  the  aroma  is  lost  if  the  steam  escapes, 
and  much  of  the  flavor  is  lost  as  well. 

AFTER  DINNER,  OR  BLACK  COFFEE 

is  made  by  filtering  or  boiling.  The  proportion  of  coffee 
should  be  twice  that  for  ordinary  breakfast  coffee,  as  it 
should  be  dark  and  strong,  very  clear  and  served  without 
milk  or  cream.  Don't  wash  the  coffee  pot  with  soap.  Wash 
in  hot  water  and  dry  thoroughly. 

FRUIT   PUNCH. 

Juice  of  12  oranges,  1  can  pineapple, 

Juice  of  10  lemons,  6  bananas  (sliced), 

1   pt.   cherries,  4  cups  sugar. 

Boil  sugar  in  1  qt.  of  water  for  five  minutes.  Cool,  add 
4  qts.  of  water,  then  the  juice  and  fruit. 

GRAPE   JUICE. 

Express  the  juice  from  grapes  (wild  preferred)  by  cook- 
ing slowly  till  soft  with  very  little  water.  Strain  through 
jelly  bag.  Bring  juice  to  a  boil  and  add  :/+  lb.  of  sugar  to 
each  quart.  Cork  tightly  in  bottles  and  keep  in  cool  place. 
The  juice  of  strawberries,  currants  or  red  raspberries  may 
be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  and  is  especially  useful  in 
making  gelatine  desserts. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 

Add  to  8  qts.  of  fine,  ripe.  Mack  raspberries  enough  vine- 
gar to  reach  the  top,  but  no!  cover  them.  Let  stand  in  a 
stone  jar  twenty-four  hours  Then  strain  through  a  colan- 
der, mashing  the  berries  well.  Strain  again  through  cheese- 
cloth and  measure  the  juice.  Allow  1  lb.  of  sugar  for  1  pt. 
of  juice,  put  the  juice  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil  for 
twenty  minutes,  add  the  sugar  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer. 
Seal  in  fruit  jars  or  bottles. 


ICE    CREAMS,    SHERBETS    AND    BEVERAGES.  1 53 

PURPLE  PUNCH. 

3  oranges,  i     cup  grape  juice. 

3  lemons,  i  cup  grated  pineapple, 

3^2  qts.  water,  2  cups  sugar. 
2  cup  freshly  made  tea, 

Cook  grated  pineapple  with  1  pt.  water  for  fifteen  minutes, 
strain  through  cheesecloth,  add  1  pt.  of  water  and  2  cups  of 
sugar  which  have  been  boiled  ten  minutes,  y2  cup  of  tea, 
juice  of  lemons,  oranges  and  grape  juice,  and  2^2  qts.  water. 
Put  in  punch  bowl  with  large  lump  of  ice.  Serve  chilled  in 
sherbert  glasses. 

CHERRY    CUP. 

Put  into  bowl  1  pt.  stoned  and  bruised  cherries,  the  juice 
of  4  lemons,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  sugar  and  1 
qt.  water.  Let  stand  one  hour,  strain.  Add  1  pt.  claret 
and  set  on  ice.  Serve  in  punch  glasses  with  handles.  To 
each  put  a  spoonful  of  shaved  ice,  a  few  fine  cherries  cut 
small  and  a  sprig  of  green  borage. 

ACIDULATED  RASPBERRY  SYRUP 

is  made  by  putting  6  lbs.  of  raspberries  in  jar  with  6  qts.  of 
water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  2  ounces  of  tartaric,  or 
preferably  citric  acid ;  let  it  s^and  for  a  day  and  a  night,  and 
then  strain.  To  each  pint  of  liquor  add  \T/i  lbs.  of  loaf 
sugar,  stirring  until  the  sugar  dissolves.  Leave  it  in  cool 
place  for  a  few  days,  then  bottle  for  future  use. 

Use  a  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  and  the  white  of  an  egg  in 
making  sherberts.  The  other  ingredients  are  a  cup  of 
fruit  juice  and  a  cup  of  sugar  to  two  of  water. 


154  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 


Pickles  and  Preserves. 


TO   CAN  RED   RASPBERRIES. 

20  qts.  of  berries,  12  or  14  lbs.  of  currants, 

10  lbs.  of  sugar. 

Pick  the  berries  over  and  put  them  in  the  jars  uncooked 
filling  the  jars  nearly  full.  Heat  the  currants  and  mash 
to  get  all  the  juice  out  the  same  as  for  jelly.  Strain  the 
juice,  stir  the  sugar  into  it  and  pour  it  into  the  jars,  filling 
them  within  an  inch  of  the  top.  Put  on  the  tops  without 
the  rubber.  Lay  a  thin  piece  of  peach  basket  or  little  pieces 
of  shingle  in  the  bottom  of  the  wash  boiler;  stand  the  glass 
jars  on  these  strips,  15  or  16  qt.  jars  will  stand  in  an  ordi- 
nary boiler.  Put  enough  cold  water  in  the  boiler  to  come 
to  the  shoulder  of  the  jars  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Let  it  boil  20 
minutes,  then  lay  a  cloth  wet  in  hot  water  in  the  sink;  lift 
three  or  four  of  the  jars  and  stand  them  on  the  cloth ;  take 
off  the  covers,  put  on  the  rubbers ;  pour  enough  hot  currant 
juice  in  a  jar  to  run  over  the  top  and  seal  up  quickly.  Stand 
the  jar  on  its  head  to  see  if  it  leaks. 

CANNED    PEACHES. 

Pare  the  peaches,  cut  them  in  two,  remove  the  pit  and 
drop  them  cut  side  down  in  glass  fruit  jars.  Stir  a  scant 
coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar  in  just  enough  water  to  dis- 
solve and  pour  into  the  jar  and  put  on  the  cover  without  the 
rubber  and  cook  in  the  boiler  the  same  as  the  raspberries, 
be  sure  to  cover  the  boiler  tightly  to  keep  in  the  steam. 
After  cooking  20  minutes  in  the  boiler  fill  the  jar  with  hot 
water  and  seal  at  once.     The  pits  may  be  left  in  if  preferred. 

CANNED  BLACKBERRIES. 

Put  them  in  the  jars,  dissolve  a  coffee  cup  of  sugar  in  cold 
water  and  fill  into  the  jar  and  proceed  the  same  as  with 
peaches. 


PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES.  I  55 

RASPBERRIES. 

Both  red  and  black  raspberries  may  be  canned  the  same 
as  peaches. 

TOMATO    BUTTER. 

16  lbs.  of  ripe  tomatoes,  T  qt.  of  vinegar, 

8  lbs.  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon, 

1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  of  allspice, 

1   tablespoon  mace. 
Peel  the  tomatoes  and  cook  them  with  the  vinegar  and 
sugar  till  about  half  done.     Add  spice  and  cook  until  very 
thick  being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn. 

DUTCH  SALAD.  (PICKLE). 

1   bunch  celery,  I   qt.  green  tomatoes, 

6  small  green  peppers,  1  cabbage, 

1   cauliflower,  I   qt.  onions, 

10  teaspoons  dry  mustard,  1  oz.  tumeric  powder. 
Chop  all  together,  sprinkle  with  ]/2  a  cup  of  salt,  then  let 
stand  one-half  hour.  Add  2.y2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
flour,  2  qts.  vinegar.  Dissolve  the  tumeric  powder  and  flour 
in  a  little  of  the  vinegar.  then  boil  until  tender — an  hour  or 
so. 

CUCUMBER   SALAD.     (PICKLE.) 

Take  3  or  4  doz.  small  cucumbers  sliced  thin.  Peel  3 
onions,  salt  and  let  stand  over  night  with  cucumbers.  Drain 
well,  add  1  pt.  vinegar,  y2  cup  salad  oil,  y2  cup  white  mus- 
tard seed.     Mix  and  bottle. 

VENISON  JELLY. 

1  peck  wild  grapes,  1  qt.  vinegar, 

Y/\  cup  whole  cloves,  6    pounds  sugar, 

Va,  cup  stick  cinnamon. 
Put  first  four  ingredients  into  a  preserving  kettle,  heat 
slowly  to   a  boiling  point  and   cook  until  grapes  are  soft, 
strain  through  a  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth  or  jelly 


J56  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

bag.     Boil  liquid  twenty  minutes,  then  add  sugar,  heated, 
and  boil  five  minutes. 

CHILI    SAUCE. 

30  large  ripe  tomatoes,  5  green  peppers, 

10  onions,  4  tablespoons  of  salt. 

3  cups  of  vinegar,  20  tablespoons    of   sugar. 

Chop  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers,  and  boil  all  three 
hours. 

CHOPPED    PICKLE. 

1  peck  green  tomatoes,  3  tablespoons  salt, 

4  large     onions     chopped  3  green  peppers, 

fine>  2  qts.  vinegar, 

x/z      pt.      white      mustard  1   qt.  white  sugar, 

seed,  2  tablespoons  cloves, 

1  tablespoon  allspice. 

Drain  the  water  from  the  tomatoes  while  chopping.  Put 
the  spice  in  a  bag  excepting  the  mustard  seed  which  is  to  be 
mixed  with  the  pickle.  Stir  all  together  two  hours.  To  be 
eaten  with  cold  meat. 

MIXED    PICKLES. 

300    very    small    cucum-         4  green  peppers, 

bers,  3  small     heads     cabbage 

2  large  heads  cauliflower,  (one  red), 

1  qt.  green  beans,  1   qt.  green  tomatoes. 

Slice  peppers  fine,  also  the  cabbage  ;  cut  beans  one  inch 
long,  slice  tomatoes.     Let  this  mixture  stand  in  strong  brine 
twenty-four  hours.     Drain  three  hours,  then  sprinkle  in 
*4  lb.    black    mustard         l/$  lb.  mixed  spices, 

seed,  1  lb.  brown  sugar, 

%   lb.    white    m  u  s  t  a  r  d        1  tablespoon  black  ground 
seed,  pepper. 

Let  come  to  a  boil  in  just  vinegar  enough  to  cover.     Can 
while  hot.      This  makes  twenty-one  quarts. 


PICKLES    AND    PRESERVES. 


FRENCH    PICKLE. 


'57 


12  medium   sized  cucum-  3  onions, 

bers,  l/A  cup  olive  oil. 

]/2  cup   salt,  y±  cup     mixed     mustard 

1  pt.  vinegar,  seed, 

1   tablespoon  celery  seed. 

Pare  and  slice  cucumbers  and  onions.  Scatter  salt  over 
them  and  let  stand  over  night  In  the  morning  turn  off  the 
water,  add  olive  oil,  vinegar,  mustard  and  celery  seed.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  put  into  jars  and  keep  in  the  dark. 

DANDELION  WINE. 

Pour  4  qts.  of  boiling  water  over  5  qts.  of  dandelion 
flowers.  Let  them  stand  three  days,  then  strain  and  add  3 
lbs.  of  sugar,  2  oranges  sliced,  1  lemon  sliced,  l/2  lb.  of 
raisins  cut  in  halves  and  1  cake  of  compressed  yeast.  Let 
this  stand  three  weeks  in  covered  crock  stirring  occasional- 
ly, then  strain  and  bottle. 

DUTCH    CHOW    CHOW. 

2  qts.  green  tomatoes,  1   oz.  tumeric. 

1  head  of  cauliflower,  1   qt.  small  white  onions, 

6  peppers,  1   doz.  cucumbers, 

1   cup  sugar,  2  qts.  vinegar, 

3  tablespoons  mustard  4  tablespoons  mustard, 
seed,  2  tablespoons  flour. 

Cut  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  peppers  and  onions  (if  the 
onions  are  large  ones)  in  small  pieces  and  sprinkle  wth  salt, 
and  let  stand  over  night.  Scald  cauliflower  about  five 
minutes;  pick  in  pieces,  put  all  together  and  let  stand  till 
morning,  then  scald  in  their  own  brine.  Scald  vinegar  with 
a  bag  of  spice.  Mix  mustard,  tumeric  and  flour  with  cold 
vinegar,  stir  it  into  the  hot  vinegar  and  pour  over  the 
pickles.     Put  away  in  a  covered  crock. 


158  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

CFOW    CHOW. 

1   pk.  green  tomatoes,  6  onions, 

]/2  pk.  ripe  tomatoes,  3  small  heads  cabbage, 

1   doz.  green  peppers,         3  red   peppers    (seeds  re- 
(seeds  removed),  moved), 

Chop  all  together,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  put  in  a  coarse 
bag.  Drain  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  in  a  porcelain 
lined  kettle  with  2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  l/2  cup  grated  horse- 
radish, 1  tablespoon  each  of  ground  black  pepper,  mustard, 
whole  white  mustard  seed,  celery  salt,  and  mace.  Cover 
with  vinegar  and  boil  until  clear.     Seal  up  in  jars. 

TOMATO   KETCHUP,   NO.    1. 

24  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  4  medium  sized  onions, 

4  green  peppers,  2  tablespoons  salt, 

4  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  ginger, 

1  tablespoon   cinnamon,  1   tablespoon  mustard, 

2  qts.  vinegar. 

Chop  the  peppers  and  onions,  boil  all  together  about  three 
hours,  stirring  frequently.     Bottle  while  hot. 

COLD   CATSUP. 

t  pk.   ripe   tomatoes,  6  cups   sugar, 

5  green  peppers,  ]/2  cup  whole  mustard 

5  onions,  seed, 

1  qt.  vinegar  (scant),  y2  cup  salt. 

Peel  tomatoes  and  chop  and  drain  well.     Chop  peppers 

after  seeds  are  removed,  chop  onions  and  mix  all  together. 

Ready  for  use  any  time. 

TOMATO    KETCHUP,    NO.  2. 

Stew  and  sift  tomatoes.  To  one  gallon  of  juice  add  one 
pint  of  vinegar  and 

4  level      tablespoons      of  4  level      tablespoons      of 

salt,  black  pepper, 

t  level  tablespoon  of  all-  2  level      tablespoons      of 

spice,  cayenne, 


PICKLES   AND    PRESERVES.  1 59 

3  level      tablespoons      of         2  level      tablespoons      of 
mustard,  cloves. 

Make  a  paste  of  spices  arc!  vinegar,  add  this  to  the  hot 
tomato  juice.     Boil  down,  strain  and  bottle. 

SPICED    TOMATO    SAUCE. 

1  qt.  tomatoes,  y2  scant  cup  vinegar, 

2  heaping  teaspoon  cin-         }4  cup  sugar, 
namon,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

1   teaspoon  peppei.  Pinch  of  cayenn?  pepper. 

Boil  down  to  a  pint. 

CRANBERRY    SAUCE. 

Put  cranberries  in  colander  and  pour  boiling  water  over 
them  until  thoroughly  scalded.  Then  cook  in  water  using 
1  pt.  of  water  for  every  quart  of  cranberries.  Boil  until  ten- 
der, add  2  cups  of  sugar  for  each  quart  of  cranberries,  boil 
five  minutes  and  put  away  in  glass  or  earthen  jar  to  cool. 

GINGER   PEAR. 

4  lbs.  pear  (chopped  fine)         3^2  lbs.  sugar, 
}4  lb.  ginger  root,  2  lemons. 

Chop  ginger  fine.  Boil  lemons  until  tender  and  chop 
them  fine.  Boil  the  pears  and  sugar  one  hour,  add  the 
lemon  and  boil  one  hour  longer.     Put  in  jars  hot. 

PEPPER     RELISH. 

1  qt.  vinegar.  3  tablespoons  salt, 

12  red  peppen»-  12  green  peppers, 

15  onions,  2  cups  sugar. 

Remove  all  seeds  from  peppers  and  put  onions  and 
peppers  through  meat  chopper;  cover  with  boiling  water, 
drain,  cover  with  cold  water,  bring  to  the  boil  and  drain 
again.  Put  vinegar,  sugar  and  salt  in  granite  kettle  and 
when  scalding  hot  pour  over  peppers  and  onions.  Cook  a 
minute  and  it  is  ready  to  seal  up. 


l6o  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

GRAPE    CATSUP. 

5  lbs.  grapes,  I   pt.  vinegar, 

3  lbs.  sugar.  i  tablespoon   ground  all- 
i  teaspoon  ground  cloves..  spice, 

i  teaspoon  ground  cinna-  i   teaspoon  pepper, 

nioii,  y2  teaspoon  salt. 

Crush  the  grapes,  cook  them  and  rub  them  through  the 
strainer.     Then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  boil  till  thick. 

TOMATO    KETCHUP,    NO.  3. 

4  green  peppers,  24  ripe  tomatoes, 
4  medium  sized  onions. 

Peel  the  tomatoes,  chop  the  onions  and  peppers. 

Add  2  tablespoons  salt,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 

1  tablespoon  ginger,  2  qts.  vinegar. 

1   tablespoon  mustard, 
4  tablespoons    brow  11 
sugar, 

Boil  together  about  three  hours  stirring  frequently. 
Bottle  while  hot. 

STRAWBERRIES   UNCOOKED. 

Use  perfect  berries,  no  matter  how  small.  Mash 
thoroughly  with  a  silver  fork,  taking  a  few  at  a  time.  Put 
together  in  a  bowl  and  ^dd  the  same  measure  of  fine  granu- 
lated sugar.  Let  stand  a  few  hours,  stirring  occasionally. 
Fill  glass  jars  to  the  brim,  put  on  covers  and  keep  in  a 
dark,  cool  place.  Will  keep  a  year  or  more  and  have  the 
fresh  fruit  flavor  when  opened.  Raspberries  can  be  done 
the  same  way. 

CANNED   RHUBARB. 

Cut  the  rhubarb  without  peeling  into  small  pieces.  Fill 
glass  jars  full.  Put  in  big  pan  of  cold  water,  fill  and  hold 
under  water  until  it  is  through  bubbling,  then  seal. 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES.  jgj 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

5  seedless  oranges,  j_  iemon 

Slice  the  fruit  very  thin  and  let  stand  over  night  in  water 
allowing-  3  pts.  Df  water  to  r  lb.  of  fruit.  In  the  morning 
boil  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  let  stand  over  night 
again.  The  next  morning  boil  again  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  (or  longer)  with  sugar,  allowing  iy2  lbs.  of  sugar  to 
each  pound  of  fruit.      Pour  into  jelly  glasses. 

APPLE  GINGER. 

4  lbs.  apples,  4  lbs>  of  sugai% 

i  oz.  green  ginger. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  by  adding  i  pt.  of  water.  Chop 
apples  and  ginger  into  small  bits.  If  you  cannot  get  green 
ginger  use  white  ginger  root. 

RHUBARB  JAM. 

7  lbs.  rhubarb,  ?  ibs.  sugar, 

Juice  of  3  whole  orange?— i  finely  chopped. 
Cut  up  rhubarb,  add  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.     Add 

oranges  just  before  cooking  and  boil  one-half  hour,  or  longer 

if  syrup  is  not  thick  enough. 

AMBER    MARMALADE. 

Shave  very  thin  i  orange,  i  grapefruit,  i  lemon,  rejecting 
only  seeds  and  cores.  Measure-add  three  times  the  quant 
tity  of  water.  Stand  in  earthen  bowl  over  night  Next 
morning  boil  for  ten  minutes  only,  let  stand  again  over 
night,  then  add  pint  for  pim  of  sugar  and  boil  steadily  for 
nearly  two  hours  until  it  jellies.  This  makes  from  n  to  h 
glasses  acording  to  size  of  fruit  used.  Very  nice  and  very 
little  trouble  to  make. 

Pineapple  and  rhubarb  cooked  together  make  a  pleasino- 
combination  using  about  one-third  pineapple  to  two-thirds 
rhubarb.     Do  not  pare  *he  rhubarb.     Fine  for  pies. 


1 62  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 

OIL    PICKLES. 

50  medium  sized  cucumbers  pared  and  sliced, 

2  cups  vinegar,  y2  cup  salt, 

1  cup  olive  oil,  2  tablespoons  mustard 

1  tablespoon  celery  seed,  seed. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  can. 

PEAR  CONSERVE. 

3  lbs.  of  pears,  weighed  after  they  are  pared  and  cored. 
1  lb.  of  figs,  3  lbs.  of  sugar. 

Put  pears  and  figs  through  meat  chopper  and  boil  about 
two  hours.  English  walnut?  chopped  fine  may  be  added 
a  short  time  before  removing  from  the  fire. 

PICKLED    PEACHES   OR   PEARS. 

7  lbs.  of  peaches,  3J4  lbs.  sugar. 

1   pt.  vinegar,  y2  oz.  cinnamon, 

y2  oz.  cloves.  y2  oz.  mace. 

Bring  vinegar,  sugar  and  spice  to  the  boil,  if  vinegar  is 
too  strong  put  in  water,  then  put  in  the  peaches  being  care- 
ful not  to  cook  them  too  much. 

SWEET  PICKLED   BEETS. 

Cut  oft"  the  tops  about  an  inch  above  the  beet,  being  care- 
ful not  to  break  the  skin  ;  wash  thoroughly  and  boil  until 
tender.  Drain,  cover  with  cold  water  and  rub  off  the  skin, 
cut  in  slices  and  put  in  fruit  jars.  Fill  the  jars  with  a  syrup 
made  of  one  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup  water,  two  cups 
sugar,  stick  cinnamon  and  a  handful  of  whole  cloves.  One 
must  be  governed  somewhat  by  the  taste  of  this  syrup,  for 
if  the  syrup  tastes  too  strongly  of  vinegar  the  beets  will  not 
be  good.    Seal  the  same  as  any  canned  fruit. 


CANDY.  163 


CANDY. 


TURKISH  DELIGHT. 

Soak  two  envelopes  Whitman's  Minute  Gelatine  in  one- 
half  cup  of  water  till  thoroughly  dissolved.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  one  pound  granulated  sugar  and  one-half  cup 
cold  water,  then  add  the  soaked  gelatine  and  boil  steadily 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Watch  very  carefully,  as  it  will 
readily  "catch"  and  burn.  Jt  is  well  to  stir  most  of  the  time 
while  boiling.  When  it  has  boiled  twenty-five  minutes, 
take  from  the  fire  and  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  and 
one-half  oranges  and  one  lemon.  Add  one  large  cup  Eng- 
lish walnut  meats,  one-third  pound  candied  cherries  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Wet  a  large  platter  in  cold  water ;  turn  the 
mixture  in.  When  jellied,  cut  in  squares  and  roll  in  pow- 
dered sugar.  It  requires  several  hours  to  jelly  well.  Do  not 
cool  in  refrigerator. 

KARO  CANDY. 

Boil  together  one-half  cup  rich  milk  (or  cream),  one  cup 
Karo  Corn  Syrup,  one  and  one-half  cups  dark  brown  sugar. 
When  almost  done  (which  may  be  discovered  by  testing  in 
cold  water)  add  small  lump  butter  and  one-half  cup  chopped 
walnuts.     When  done,  beat  until  creamy  as  it  cools. 

CREAM  CANDY. 

i   lb.  crushed  sugar,  nilla, 

2  tablespoons  vinegar,  ]/2  cup  water, 

i   teaspoon   lemon   or  va-         i  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

Boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  without  stirring,  until  iv  is  of  the 
consistency  of  molasses  candy.  Pour  out  on  buttered 
plates,  and  when  cool  enough,  pull. 


164  SUNSHINE   COOK   BOOK. 

FUDGE  CAKE  CANDY. 

1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter, 

1  cup  nut  meats,  y2  cup  flour, 

2  eggs,  2  squares  chocolate. 
Bake  one-half  hour.     Cut  while  hot. 

MAPLE  CREAMS. 

Put  into  a  pan  1  lb.  maple  sugar,  set  in  pan  of  boiling 
water  till  melted.  Add  ]/2  cup  cream  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Pour  on  a  well  buttered  dish,  spread  with  walnut  meats. 
When  cool,  cut  in  squares. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

1  cup  sugar,  Butter,  size  of  an  egg, 

1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  flavoring. 

Boil  until  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Add  the 
flavoring  just  before  removing  from  the  stove.  Pour  out 
very  thin  in  buttered  pans.     When  cold,  it  is  easily  broken. 

PEPPERMINT  DROPS. 

1  lb.  sugar,  6  tablespoons  water, 

7  drops  oil  of  peppermint,         34  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  hairs.     Remove  from  the 

stove  and  add  the  flavoring  mixed  in  a  little  sugar  and  % 

teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.    Stir  with  fork  until  thick  enough 

to  drop  on  waxed  paper. 

MARSHMALLOW  CANDY. 

*4   lb.  marshmallows,  1  cup  English  walnuts  or 

1  tablespoon  butter,  Pecan  nuts,  chopped, 

3  cups  Coffee  A.  sugar,  t  cup  thin  cream. 

Boil  sugar,  cream,  marshmallows  and  butter  together  20 

minutes,  or  until  it  forms  in  a  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water. 

Take  from  the  fire  and  beat  with  egg  beater  until  it  begins 

to  thicken,  then  add  nuts  and  pour  into  pan.    The  nuts  may 

be  omitted. 


CANDY. 


165 


COCOANUT  BARS. 

3  lbs.  granulated  sugar,  water, 

Yz  cup  cream,  or  l/\   cup         1  cocoanut  grated. 
Take  sugar,  milk  of  the  cocoanut,  cream  or  water,  stir  to- 
gether and  cook  to  a  thick  syrup.    Remove  from  fire  and  add 
1  oz.  of  butter.     Stir  into  the  syrup  the  grated  cocoanut,  and 
beat  until  white  and  thick.  Cut  into  bars. 

FIG    CANDY. 

1  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  water. 

l/2  lb.  figs  (chopped  fine),         l/\  teaspoon  cream  tartai. 

Boil    sugar    and    water    together    without    stirring    them 

until  the  mixture  is  a  pale  amber  color.    Stir  in  the  cream  of 

tartar,  add  the  figs  and  turn  into  a  buttered  dish.       Cut  into 

squares  when  almost  cold. 

STUFFED  DATES. 

Take  out  stone  and  substitute  an  almond. 
A  few  minced  dates  added  to  fudge  as  it  comes  from  the 
stove  will  give  a  novel  and  dainty  confection. 

BUTTERCUPS. 

2  cups  sugar.  y2  cup  butter. 
t/i  cup  sweet  milk, 

Cook  over  fire  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  between  the 
fingers  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda 
when  cooked  and  pour  into  buttered  pan.  When  cool,  pull 
until  white  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 

LICORICE  DROPS. 

At  a  drug  store,  purchase  one  stick  of  pure  licorice  and 
break  it  into  small  pieces.  Pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  and  keep  it  warm  until  dissolved.  Add  to  it  two 
pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  will  get  very 
hard  in  water.  Pour  into  shallow  buttered  tins,  and  mark 
off  into  squares. 


l66  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

These  candies,  being'  pure,  and  containing  no  harmful 
drugs,  may  be  safely  given  to  children. 

COCOANUT  CANDY. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  one  cup  grated  cocoanut ;  moisten 
the  sugar  with  the  cocoanut  milk.  Put  the  mixture  on  the 
lire  to  boil,  stirring  constantly.  When  the  candy  begins  to 
return  to  sugar,  put  in  the  grated  cocoanut  and  stir  quickly 
for  one  minute.  Spread  upon  buttered  dishes  and  when 
cooled  a  little  mark  off  into  squares. 

FONDANT  FOR  CHOCOLATE  OR  WALNUT 
CREAMS. 

5  cups  sugar,  ij4   cups  water. 

Boil  without  stirring  until  it  hairs  when  dropped  from  a 
fork.  Remove  from  stove  and  set  in  a  cold  and  dry  place. 
Let  stand  until  cool  enough  to  bear  the  hand  in  it.  Remove 
crust  from  the  top  and  stir  until  thick  enough  to  mold. 

SALTED   ALMONDS. 

i  lb.  of  almonds,  i  cup  of  salt, 

i  lb.  of  lard, 

Blanch  i  lb.  of  almonds,  boil  them  ten  minutes  in  i  qt.  of 
water  and  i  cup  of  salt.  Remove  to  a  colander  and  drain. 
Heat  i  lb.  of  lard  very  hot,  fry  the  almonds  like  doughnuts, 
being  careful  to  take  them  out  before  they  are  too  brown. 
Drain  on  brown  paper.     No  salt  adheres  to  the  almonds. 

To  blanch  almonds,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let  them 
stand  five  minutes.  Keep  them  wet  while  removing  the 
skins  or  they  will  stick  again. 

CHOCOLATE   PEPPERMINTS. 

White  of  i  egg,  Confectioners'  sugar, 

peppermint  or  wintergreen. 
y2    cake   Baker's    choco- 
late. 
Beat  the  white  of  egg  very  stiff  and  stir  in  sugar  till  the 
mixture  is  verv  thick,  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  peppermint 


CANDY.  167 

or  wintergreen,  mould  with  the  fingers  into  small,  flat  cakes 
and  lay  on  sheets  of  oiled  paper.  Melt  the  chocolate  and 
take  up  the  cream  pats  on  the  flat  part  of  a  fork  and  pour 
the  chocolate  over  them  with  a  spoon.  Put  them  back  on 
the  oiled  papei  to  harden. 

WALNUT  CARAMELS. 

4  cups  brown  sugar,  1   cup  milk, 

1  cup  walnut  meats,  t   teaspoon  vanilla. 
Cook  twenty  minutes  and  take  from  the  fire  and  beat  un- 
til sugary.  Add  nuts  last. 

SULTANA  CARAMELS. 

2  cups  sugar,  Yz  cup  milk. 
J4  cup  molasses,  34  CUP  butter, 

2    squares    chocolate    cut         1   teaspoon  vanilla, 

fine,  Yi   cup  sultana  raisins, 

y2     cup    English     walnut 
meats,  or  hickory  nuts 
cut  in  pieces. 
Put  butter  into  saucepan.     When  melted  add  sugar,  milk, 
molasses.     Heat  to  boiling  point  and  boil  seven   minutes. 
Add  chocolate  and  stir  till  chocolate  is  melted,  then  boil 
seven  minutes  longer.     Remove  from  fire,  beat  till  creamy, 
add  nuts,  raisins  and  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

y2    lb.   of  Baker's   choco-         2  cups  of  sugar, 
late,  1   cup  sweet  milk, 

1   cup  molasses,  1   teaspoon  vanilla. 

y2  cup  butter, 
Boil  chocolate,  sugar,  molasses,  milk  and  butter  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes  and  add  vanilla  just  before  taking  from 
the  fire.  Pour  into  shallow  buttered  pans,  and  when  nearly 
cold,  cut  in  squares.  These  caramels  should  be  neither 
sticky  nor  brittle,  but  have  about  the  consistency  of 
cheese. 


l68  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS. 


MAGIC  SILVER  CLEANER. 

i  qt.  gasoline,  ]/2  lb.  whiting, 

l/s  oz.  olic  acid. 

Shake  well  together.  A  woolen  cloth  dipped  in  this  mix- 
ture and  dried  is  excellent  to  clean  silver. 

MILDEW. 

The  English  method  of  removing  mildew  is  to  moisten 
the  spots  with  warm  water,  rub  on  a  little  soap,  then  sprin- 
kle well  with  powdered  chalk  and  salt  and  dry  in  the  sun. 

If  the  hands  are  rubbed  on  a  stalk  of  celery  after  peeling 
onions,  the  smell  will  be  entirely  removed. 

TO  STOP  MOUSE  HOLES. 

Fill  the  mouse  hole  with  laundry  soap  and  stick  a  few 
sharp-pointed  nails  through  the  soap. 

TO  THAW  OUT  A  FROZEN  WATER  PIPE. 

Pour  into  the  pipe  a  cupful  or  more  of  common  salt. 
Usually  the  drain  will  soon  be  all  right  after  this  has  been 
done. 

Chloride  of  lime  should  be  scattered,  at  least  once  a  week, 
under  sinks  and  in  all  places  where  sewer  gas  is  liable  to 
lurk. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  SPOTS  FROM  A  THIN  WHITE 

DRESS. 

Soak  the  dress  in  a  kerosene  bath,  rubbing  all  the  ink 
spots  with  common  yellow  soap.  At  the  end  of  half  an  houi 
wash  it  with  soap  and  water  and  no  trace  of  ink  will  remain. 

Turpentine  and  black  varnish  put  into  any  good  stove 
polish  is  the  blacking  used  by  hardware  dealers  for  polish- 


HOUSEHOLD   HINTS.  169 

ing  heating  stoves.  If  properly  put  on,  it  will  last  through- 
out a  season. 

If  oatmeal  is  soaked  over  night  in  water  it  requires  only 
about  one-half  the  time  to  cook. 

If  eggs  are  to  be  boiled  hard,  have  the  water  boiling  when 
the  eggs  are  put  in  it.  This  will  prevent  the  yolks  turning 
dark. 

Preparatory  to  frying  liver  or  veal,  cover  it  for  a  minute 
or  two  with  boiling  water.  Pat  dry  with  a  clean  towel,  roll 
in  flour  and  fry  (in  a  covered  pan)  until  brown. 

CLEANING  FLUID. 

Y%  oz.  of  ammonia,  )/%  oz.  of  bay  rum, 

%  oz.   of  ether,  }i  oz.  oil  of  wintergren, 

V%  oz.   of   chloroform,  i  qt.  of  deoderized  ben 
20  grs.  powdered  borax,  zine. 

1  oz.  of  alcohol, 

Do  not  shake  before  using,  but  pour  out  a  small  quantity 
into  a  cup. 

The  easiest  way  to  clean  a  coffee  pot  is  to  boil  it  in  water 
containing  soda. 

Put  lye  into  the  water  that  you  soak  your  granite  kettle 
with,  in  which  somehing  hac  beer,  burned  black,  and  you 
will  have  no  trouble  washing  it  the  next  morning. 

TO  DESTROY  BED  BUGS. 

Take  good  alcohol  and  put  as  much  corrosive  sublimate 
in  it  as  it  will  dissolve;  then  take  a  small  paint  brush  and 
wash  all  places  where  they  are  about  once  or  twice  a  week 
and  they  will  soon  disappear. 

TO  CLEAN  HAIR  BRUSHES. 

Clean  hair  brushes  and  combs  by  washing  them  in  a 
quart  of  water  in  which  has  been  stirred  three  or  four  tea- 
spoons of  ammonia. 


I-O  SUNSHINE    COOK    BOOK. 

WHEN  A  KETTLE  THREATENS  TO  BOIL  OVER. 

Grease  the  rim  lightly  all  around  with  a  bit  of  butter.  The 
contents  will  touch  this  danger  line,  but  will  not  pass  it. 
Stewpans,  in  which  vegetables  are  boiling,  may  be  treated 
in  the  same  way. 

TO  TURN  THE  HEMS  OF  NEW  TABLE  NAPKINS. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  put  the  napkins  through  the  narrow 
hemmer  of  an  unthreaded  sewing  machine.  This  gives  a 
more  narrow  and  more  even  hem  than  can  be  turned  by 
hand,  and  the  needle,  going  through  the  linen,  gauges  fine 
stitches  for  the-  hand  sewer. 

Tubs  will  not  warp  or  crack  open  if  the  precaution  is 
taken  to  put  a  pail  of  water  into  each,  directly  after  use. 

TO  KEEP  EGGS. 

Slack  i  pt.  of  lime  and  y2  pt.  salt  in  3  gallons  of  cold  water. 
Stir  once  in  a  while  for  three  days,  then  stir  thoroughly 
and  pour  over  eggs  that  have  been  packed  in  jars.  Have  the 
eggs  covered  with  brine. 

FRESHENING  UP  POTATOES. 

If  the  potatoes  are  old  and  the  cook  has  reason  to  fear 
that  they  will  turn  black  in  cooking,  she  should  add  a  little 
milk  to  the  water  in  which  they  are  to  be  boiled.  This  is 
certain  to  prevent  such  unsightly  discoloration. 

BAKING  POWDER. 

y2  lb.  tartaric  acid  (com-  t  lb.  corn  starch, 

mercial),  Ya  lb.  baking  soda. 

Sift  together  three  times.  Use  as  you  would  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder. 

WASHING  FLUID. 
1   lb.  Babbitt's  lye,  y2  oz.  salts  of  tartar, 

]/2  oz.  ammonia. 
Dissolve  in  1  gal.  of  warm  water.  Use  one  cupful  for  large 
washing. 

When   whipped   cream   is   to  be   served,   always  add   the 


HOUSEHOLD   HINTS.  171 

white  of  one  egg  for  each  pint  of  cream  used.  Beat  the  egg 
white  a  little  before  adding  it  to  the  sweetened  and  flavored 
cream.     Note  how  fine  and  firm  the  cream  will  be. 

To  test  jars: — Wash  and  rinse  the  jar,  fill  about  half  full 
with  hot  water,  place  a  new  rubber  and  cover  on  it,  fasten 
securely  and  invert  the  jar  on  a  newspaper  spread  on  the 
table,  leave  for  a  few  minutes,  and  if  any  sign  of  moisture 
oozes  from  the  jar,  change  the  top  or  rubber  or  both  and 
try  again. 

If  the  paper  is  perfectly  dry  the  jar  is  tight,  and  you  can 
be  sure  your  labor  will  not  be  for  naught. 

If  cabbage  is  soaked  an  hour  in  salted  cold  water,  then 
boiled  uncovered,  there  will  be  scarcely  any  odor. 

Six  dozen  lemons  will  make  ten  quarts  of  lemonade  and 
will  serve  seventy  persons.  Peel  the  lemons  for  use. 

Six  quarts  of  ice  cream  will  serve  thirty-six  persons. 

To  mix  a  smooth  batter  easily  use  at  first  very  little  milk 
or  water  and  make  a  thick,  smooth  paste,  then  add  the  re- 
maining liquid. 

TO  DESTROY  CARPET  BUGS. 

Take  V2  lb.  of  tobacco  (long  cut)  and  l/i  lb.  camphor 
gum,  put  together  in  an  old  pan  and  melt  to  a  powder. 
Sprinkle  wherever  troubled  with  carpet  bugs  and  it  is  a  sure 
remedy. 

HOW    TO    GIVE    CHILDREN    CASTOR    OIL. 

Take  one  cup  of  milk,  one  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  y2  cup  of  castor  oil,  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of 
soda,  2  teaspoons  of  ginger,  a  little  salt,  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  paste.  Roll  out  like  cookies,  cut  into  fancy 
shapes  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  One  or  two  of  these  cook- 
ies are  as  good  as  a  dose  of  oil. 

Rice  has  a  better  flavor  if  washed  in  hot  water  instead  of 
cold,  before  cooking. 

If  rice  is  not  disturbed  diving  the  process  of  boiling,  the 
berries  will  be  whole,  dry  and  easily  digested.     A  few  drops 


172  SUNSHINE   COOK    BOOK. 

of  lemon  juice  added  to  the  water  will  make  it  whiter  and 
finer  flavored. 

Canned  vegetables,  like  canned  fruit,  are  improved  in 
flavor,  standing  open  an  hour  or  two  to  restore  the  oxygen 
that  was  eliminated  in  cooking. 

The  smaller  a  roast  of  meat,  the  hotter  should  be  the 
oven  at  first,  that  the  least  possible  amount  of  its  delicate 
juices  may  escape. 

The  small  paper  bags  that  fine  groceries  come  in  are  a 
better  protection  to  the  hand  than  gloves  for  blacking 
stoves. 

POPCORN. 

Put  a  quarter  cup  of  lard  into  a  large  kettle  over  the  fire. 
When  it  melts  put  in  a  scan*  cup  of  corn  and  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  pop,  then  put  on  a  cover, 
holding  it  to  one  side  a  little  and  with  a  long  handled  spoon 
stir  rapidly  until  enough  corn  has  popped  so  it  will  not  snap 
out  of  the  kettle.  Then  remove  the  cover  and  stir  as  long 
as  it  will  pop,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  a  minute 
longer  to  make  it  tender. 

TO  CHOP  SUET. 

Break  the  suet  in  small  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  flour  and 
chop  in  a  cool  place. 

TO  SEED  RAISINS. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  cover  and  let  stand  about 
ten  minutes,  then  pinch  them  and  the  seeds  will  come  out 
clean. 

TO  REMOVE  THE  SKINS  FROM  TOMATOES. 

Lay  them  in  a  wire  basket  and  let  them  stand  in  boiling- 
water  two  or  three  minutes. 

TO  REMOVE  IRON  RUST  OR  FRUIT  STAINS 
FROM  LINEN. 

Dip  the  portion  in  a  strong  solution  of  oxalic  acid  made 
by  dissolving  the  oxalic  acid  in  hot  water.  When  the  stain 
disappears  wash  the  cloth  thoroughly  in  warm  water. 


A    GOOD    HOUSEKEEPER. 


I  73 


A  GOOD  HOUSEKEEPER. 

How  can  T  tell  her? 

By  her  cellar; 
Cleanly    shelves    and    whitened    wall. 

I  can  guess  her 

By  her  dresser; 
By  the  backstaircase  and  hall. 

And  with  pleasure 

Take  her  measure 
By  the  way  she  keeps  her  brooms. 

Or  the  peeping 

At  the  keeping 
Of  her  back  and  unseen  rooms, 
By  her  kitchen's  air  of  neatness, 
And  its  general  completeness, 
Where  in  cleanliness  and  sweetness 
The  rose  of  order  blooms. 


Menus  for  Afternoons  and  Evenings 


Salmon  Croquettes, Tomato  Jelly 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Fruit  Salad 

Marguerites        Cake        Coffee 


Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 

Frozen  Pudding 

Cake    Coffee     Nuts    Bon-Bons 


Fruit  Salad 

Cheese  Crackers 

Sultana  Roll  with  Claret  Sauce 

Sponge  Cake  Punch 


Cranberry  Sandwiches 

Coffee 

Salted  Peanuts  Candy 


Cheese  and  Olive  Sandwiches 

Lemon  Jelly       Whipped  Cream 

Wafers  Coffee 


Grapefruit 

Chicken  Salad  Olives 

Hot  Buttered  Rolls 

Coffee 


Creamed  Chicken  in  Patty  Cases 

Celery  Olives 

Small  Buttered  Biscuit 

Ice  Cream         Cake          Coffee 


Chicken  Salad 

Saltines  Olives 

Ice  Cream  Cake 

Chocolate 


Jellied  Chicken 

Cream  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Olives  Cake  Coffee 


Apples  Sweet  Cider 

Pop  Corn  Cookies 


Pumpkin  Pie 
Cottage  Cheese  Coffee 


Doughnuts  Cider 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 


Bouillon  with  Whipped  Cream 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 

Biscuit 

Sunshine  Cake  Coffee 


Breakfast 

Grapefruit 

Ham  Omelet 

Muffins  Coffee 


Breakfast 

Scrambled  Eggs 

Fried  Potatoes 

Corn  Cake  Coffee 


Breakfast 

Fruit 

Creamed  Codfish  on  Toast 

Doughnuts  Coffee 


Breakfast 
Strawberries 
Rice  Croquettes  with 

Maple  Syrup 
Coffee 


Breakfast 

Oranges 

Cereal  with  Cream 

Graham  Muffins  Coffee 


Breakfast 

Baked  Sausage 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Muffins  Coffee 


Breakfast 

Stewed  Prunes 
Fried  Salt  Pork  with  Milk  Gravy- 
Hashed  Potatoes 
Rolls  Coffee 


Breakfast 

Oranges 

Baked  Omelet 

Muffins  Stewed  Prunes 

Coffee 


Breakfast 

Shredded    Wheat    with    Straw- 
berries and  Cream 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Rolls  Coffee 


Breakfast 

Stewed  Rhubarb 

Fried  Scrapple 

Doughnuts  Coffee 


Luncheon 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Broiled  Chops 

Potato  Croquettes 

Fruit  Salad  Cheese  Straws 

Coffee  Mousse 


Luncheon 
Fish  Balls  Tomato  Sauce 

Green  Salad 

Thin  Slices  of  Bread  and  Butter 

Mountain  Dew  Pudding 

Tea 


Rolls 


Luncheon 

Cold  Chicken 

Celery  Salad 

Strawberries 


Coffee 


Luncheon 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Sweet  Pickled  Beets 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Honey  Tea 


Luncheon 

Apple  Fritters  with  Sauce 

Filled  Raisin  Cookies 

Cheese  Tea 


Luncheon 

Deviled  Clams 

Lettuce  Salad 

Rolls  Olives 


Luncheon 

Potato  Dumplings 

Bread  and  Butter 

Apple  Pie  Cheese 

Tea 


Luncheon 

Lettuce  Salad,  garnished  with 
Hard  Boiled  Eggs 

Strawberry  Shortcake 
Tea 


Luncheon 

Baked  Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Nut  Bread 

Peaches  and  Cream 

Cake  Tea 


Rolls 


Luncheon 

Jellied  Vegetables 

Tongue 

Prune  Whip 
Chocolate 


Dinner 

Tomato  Soup 
Braised  Beef  with  Brown  Gravy 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Buttered  Beets     Cabbage  Salad 

Chocolate  Charlotte 

Coffee 


Dinner 

Watermermelon  Piled  on    Plate 
with    Wreath   of   Cress 

Baked  Fillets  of  Fish 

Creamed  New  Potatoes 

Green  Corn  Lettuce  Salad 

Apple  Pie    Cheese    Coffee 


Dinner 

Roast  Lamb  with  Mint  Sauce 

Stuffed  Potatoes 

Peas  in  Turnip  Cups 

Apple  Salad  Wafers 

Coffee 


Dinner 

Clear  Soup 

Roast  Beef    Yorkshire  Pudding 

Browned  Potatoes 

Buttered  Onions  Radishes 

Spanish  Cream     Coffee 


Dinner 
Chicken   with  Noodles 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Parsnips  Fried  in  Butter 

Baked  Onions 

Lemon  Pie  Coffee 


Dinner 

Baked  Bean  Soup 

Baked  Pork  Chops,  Apple  Sauce 

Baked  Potatoes 

Mashed  Turnips 

Rolls      Steamed  Puffs      Coffee 


Dinner 

Oyster  Cocktails,  Horseradish  Sauce 

Celery  Clear  Soup  Salted  Almonds  Pickles 

Creamed  Salmon  Cheese  Straws 

Seasoned  Roast  Beef,  Mushroom  Sauce 

French  Rolls  Potato  Croquettes  Asparagus 

Shrimp  Salad  Wafers 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  Chocolate  Sauce 


Table   of  Weights   and  Measures 


i  Teaspoonful 

i  Teaspoonful 

i  Tablespoonful 

%  Cup  or  Wineglassful 

V2   Pint 


60  Drops,    .... 
4  Saltspoonfuls, 

3  Teaspoonfuls, 

4  Tablespoonfuls  Liquid,   . 
1   Cup  of  Liquid, 
4  Rounded  Tablespoons  of  Butter, 

1  Cup  of  Butter, 
4  Cups  of  Flour, 
3  Cups  of  Cornmeal, 

2  Cups  of  Granulated  Sugar,  . 
9  Large  Eggs,  .... 
1  Cup  of  Chopped  Meat, 

1  Teaspoon  of  Soda  to  One  Cup  of  Molasses. 
1  Teaspoon  of  Soda  to  One  Pint  of  Sour  Milk. 
1  Teaspoon  Baking  Powder  to  One  Cup  of  Flour 


1  Ounce 
A  Pound 
1  Pound 
1  Pound 
1  Pound 
1  Pound 
A  Pound 


INDEX  TO  RECEIPTS. 


SOUP. 


Page 

Asparagus,  Cream  of 7 

Bean,  Baked 8 

Bean,  Lima,  Cream  of 8 

Celery 7 

Cheese,  Cream  of 6 

Chicken 9 

Clam  Bisque 11 

Clam  Bouillon 10 

Clam  Chowder 10 

Corn ,  Cream  of 5 

Corn  Chowder 12 

Corn  Puree 5 

Croutons 5 


Page 

Egg 9 

Milk 9 

Onion,   Cream  of 7 

Pea,  Green 6 

Pea,  Split 6 

Potato  Puree 9 

Rice  and  Onion 8 

Salmon,  Cream  of 10 

Shrimp  Bisque 11 

Spinach ,  Cream  of 8 

Stock  Soup 5 

Tomato 11 

Vegetable 10 


FISH,  OYSTERS  AND  CLAMS. 
Bluefish,  Baked 18 


Clam  Cakes 21 

Clams,  Deviled 20 

Clam  Fritters 21 

Clam  Pie 2 1 

Codfish   Balls 14 

Codfish  Cakes 14 

Codfish,  Creamed 14 

Codfish  Puff 15 

Fillets  of  Sole 19 

Fish,  Baked,  Cod  or   Haddock...  13 

Fish,  Boiled 17 

Finnan  Haddie 19 

Frogs,  Fried 21 

Halibut,  Baked 13 

Halibut,  Fillets 14 

Haddie,  Creamed 19 

Hollandaise  Sauce 13 


Lobster,  Buttered 19 

Lobster,  Newburg 20 

Oysters,  Broiled 15 

Oyster  Cocktail 16 

Oysters,  Creamed 17 

Oysters,   Fried 15 

Oyster  Ramekins 16 

Oyster  Royalle 16 

Oyster  Scalloped 16 

Pigs  in   Blankets 15 

Salmon,  Baked 18 

Salmon,  Creamed,   Baked 17 

Salmon  Cutlets 17 

Salmon,  Escalloped 18 

Salmon  Loaf 18 

Scallopes  a  la  Newburg 20 

Seal  lopes  a  la  Tartar 19 

Tartar  Sauce 19 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY. 


Bacon,  Breakfast 30 

Beef  Loaf 26 

Beef  Pot  Pie  with  Dumplings. .  .23 
Beef  Hash 23 


Beef,  Braised 22 

Beef  Roast,  Seasoned 23 

Beefsteak,  How  to  Broil 22 

Beef,  Frizzled 24 


Page 

Beef,  Corned,  Creamed 23 

Cecils 25 

Calf's  Heart,  en  Casserole 23 

Chicken,  Browned  in  Gravy 31 

Chicken   Canape 32 

Chicken  Croquettes 33 

Chicken ,  Creamed 32 

Chicken,  en  Casserole 31 

Chicken,  Fried 32 

Chicken,  Imperial 31 

Chicken,  Jellied 33 

Chicken  with  Noodles 31 

Chicken  Stew,  Plain 30 

Crust  for  Chicken  or  Meat  Pie-  .33 

Casserole,  Dutch 25 

Ham  with  Creamed  Gravy 29 

Ham,  Delicious,  Boiled 29 

Lamb  Roast 28 

Lamb  and   Mutton  Chops 28 

Liver,  Fried  as  Cutlets 28 


Page 

Liver,  Larded 25 

Mutton  Stew 28 

Pork  Chops 28 

Pork,  Fried  with  Gravy,  Salt. ...29 

Pot  Roast 22 

Sausage,  Baked 30 

Sausage  and  Eggs 30 

Sausage  to  Fry 30 

Sweetbreads 26 

Steak,  Hamburg,  How  to  Cook. .24 

Steak,  Hamburg,  Baked 24 

Stuffing  for  Roast  Turkey 34 

Veal  Cutlets 27 

Veal     Cutlets,     Breaded,      with 

Tomato  Sauce 27 

Veal  Loaf 26 

Veal  Lunch 27 

Veal,  Pressed 26 

Veal    Brown  Stew  of 26 

Yorkshire  Pudding 25 


FISH  AND  MEAT  SAUCES. 


Sauce,  Brown 35 

Sauce,  Egg,  Cold 36 

Sauce,  Egg,  for  Fish 36 

Sauce,  Fish 36 

Sauce,  Horseradish 35 

Sauce,  Mint 35 


Sauce,  Onion 35 

Sauce,  Tartare 36 

Sauce,  Tomato,   No.  1 35 

Sauce,  Tomato,  No.  2 37 

Sauce,  White 36 


LEFT-OVERS. 


Balls,  Meat 42 

Beef,  Smothered 40 

Breakfast  Dish 39 

Breakfast  Dish,  Delicious 41 

Beef,   Escalloped 41 

Croquettes.  Emergency 39 

Chicken  a  la  Creole 42 

Egg  Gems 44 

Ham,  Scalloped  Macaroni 41 

Ham,  Minced 38 

Hash,  Meat 42 

Oyster  Mock 43 

Pie  Meat 38 

Pie  Meat  with  Crust 39 


Pie  Beef 43 

Pie  Beef  Steak 42 

Pie,   Shepherd's 39 

Rissoles 40 

Shredded  Wheat  Oysters 40 

Souffle  Meat 39 

Toast 38 

Toast  Marmalade  (Supper) 43 

Toast ,  Pru  ne 43 

Toast,  Mince  Meat  on 38 

Toast,  Savory,  for  Luncheon  or 

Supper 43 

Woodcock,    Scotch 40 


VEGETABLES. 


Page 

Beans  and  Pork 52 

Beans  with  Brown    Sauce 52 

Beans,  Baked,  with  Tomato 53 

Beets,  Baked 55 

Cabbage,  Baked 55 

Cabbage,  Fried 54 

Celery,  Creamed 52 

Corn,  Sweet,  to  Boil 48 

Corn,   Baked 49 

Corn,  Escalloped 49 

Corn  Fritters,  No.  1 49 

Corn  Fritters,  No.  2 49 

Corn  Fritters,  No.  3 49 

Cauliflower 51 

Cauliflower,  Fried 51 

Cucumbers  to  Stew 56 

Egg  Plant,  Fried 56 

Lentils 51 

Macaroni,   Stewed 50 

Melon  Croquettes 50 

Onions,  Baked 53 

Onions,  Buttered 53 

Onions,    Spanish  Fried 53 

Parsnip  Balls 54 

Parsnips  or  Carrots  Boiled 54 

Parsnips,  Fried  in  Butter 54 

Peas  in  Turnip  Cups 57 

Peppers,  Stuffed 56 

Potatoes,   Creamed 48 


Potato,  Crown 47 

Potatoes,  Cheese 47 

Potato  Cakes 46 

Potato  Croquettes 45 

Potatoes,  Fried   French 45 

Potatoes,  Whole  Fried 48 

Potatoes,  L y  onnaise 47 

Potato  Dumplings 46 

Potato  Rolls 46 

Potato,  Scalloped,  No.  1 45 

Potato,  Scalloped,  No.  2 46 

Potato,  Saratoga 45 

Potatoes,  Hashed,  Baked 46 

Potatoes,  Stuffed 47 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  Baked  in  Syrup. 48 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  Scalloped 48 

Rice,   Boiled 54 

Rice,  as  Cooked  in  the  South ...  53 

Rice  Croquettes 54 

Rice  Croquettes  with  Peas 53 

Sprouts,   Brussels 51 

Spinach 57 

Squash,  Winter,  Baked 55 

Squash,  Stuffed 55 

Tomatoes,  Baked 50 

Tomatoes,   Escalloped 49 

Tomatoes,  Scalloped 50 

Tomato,  Rice 50 

Vegetables,  Jellied 57 


MUSHROOMS. 


Mushrooms,   Creamed 5S 

Mushrooms,   with    Chicken    and 

Eggs 58 

Mushrooms,  to  Pickle   58 


Mushrooms,  Stew •  -58 

Mushrooms  on  Toast 58 

Mushrooms  on  Toast 59 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  MUFFINS,  Etc. 

Delicious  Nut  Bread 60 

Bread,  Graham,  Nut 64 

Bread,  Raisin 61 

Bread,    Oatmeal 67 

Bread,  Graham,  No.  1 67 

Bread,  Graham,  No.  2 68 

Bread,  Graham,  without  Yeast.-68 


Biscuit,     Shredded    Wheat    with 

Strawberries 65 

Biscuit,  Baking  Powder 62 

Biscuit,  Milk,  Sour 63 

Biscuit,     Shredded     Wheat     for 

Breakfast 66 

Bread,   White   or    Parker    House 


Rolls  (made  in  one-half  day). 60       Bread,  Corn,  No.  1 65 


Page 

Bread,  Corn,  No.  2 66 

Bread,  Brown,  Shredded  Wheat -62 
Bread,    Brown,    Steamed,    with 

Squash 63 

Buckwheat  Cakes,  Raised 69 

Bread,  White 60 

Brown  Bread  (two  receipts).    ...64 

Cake,  Corn 65 

Cake,  Corn,  Egg 66 

Cake,  Johnny 66 

Fritters,  Apple 69 

Fritters,  Sauce  for 69 

Fritters,  Bread 69 

Gems,  Huckleberry 65 

Gems,  Graham 67 

Griddle  Cakes   (very  good) 68 


Page 

Griddle  Cakes,  Green  Corn 68 

Griddle  Cakes,  Sour  Milk 68 

Muffins,   Cream 67 

Muffins,  Squash 66 

Muffins  as  Brownies 65 

Rusks,  No.  1 61 

Rusks,  No.  2 62 

Rolls,  French 63 

Rolls,  Vienna 63 

Rolls,  Quick  Yeast 61 

Sally  Lunn    64 

Scrapple  Lottie's 70 

Toast,  Spanish 70 

Waffles 62 

Waffles,  Quick 64 


EGGS  AND  OMELETS. 


Bird's  Nest 75 

Eggs,  Curried 72 

Eggs,  Emergency 76 

Eggs,  Luncheon 73 

Eggs,  Parsley 74 

Eggs  for  a  Picnic 74 

Eggs    Poached    in     Milk     with 

Grated  Cheese 75 

Eggs,  Sauce  for 72 

Eggs,  Scrambled 76 

Eggs,  Shirred 71 

Eggs,   Spanish 73 

Eggs,  Supper  for 73 


Egg  Toast 74 

Eggs,  Tabasco 72 

Ham  and  Eggs 73 

Omelet,  Baked 7* 

Omelet,  Baked 74 

Omelet,  Corn 71 

Omelet,  Cheese 73 

Omelet,  Egg 76 

Omelet,  Fish 75 

Omelet,  Ham 73 

Omelet  without  Milk 71 

Omelet,  Peach 75 

Omelet,  Plain 74 


CHEESE. 


Baked  Eggs  and  Cheese 79 

Baked  Rice  and  Cheese 81 

Cheese  Balls 79 

Cheese,  Cottage 79 

Cheese  Croquettes 78 

Cheese,  Escalloped,  No.  1 78 

Cheese,  Escalloped,  No.  2 78 

Cheese  Filling 81 

Cheese  Fondu 80 

Cheese  Souffle 81 


Cheese  Straws 80 

Cheese  Toast 78 

Dream  Cakes 79 

Lunch  Pastry 81 

Macaroni  Baked 80 

Rarebit,  Bean 78 

Rarebit,  Venetian v . . .  •  77 

Rarebit,  Welsh,  No.  1 77 

Rarebit,  Welsh,  No.  2 77 


SANDWICHES. 


Page 

Sandwiches  a  la  Motor 84 

Sandwiches,  Celery 84 

Sandwiches,   Cheese 83 

Sandwiches,  Cheese  and  Celery  82 
Sandwiches,  Cheese  and  Egg...   83 
Sandwiches,    Cracker   and    An- 
chovy     82 

Sandwiches,  Cranberry 83 

Sandwiches,  Dried  Beef 84 


Sandwiches,  Egg 83 

Sandwiches,  filling  for 85 

Sandwiches,  Ham 82 

Sandwiches,  Queen    83 

Sandwiches,  Marble 82 

Sandwiches,  Sardine 84 

Sandwiches,  Toast 82 

Sandwiches,  Toasted 82 

Sandwiches,  1,  2,3,  4,  5,  6,  7.  .83,  84 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS. 


Salad,  Apple 90 

Salad,  Apple,  Banana  and  Eng- 
lish Walnut 91 

Salad,  Apple  and  Celery 93 

Salad,  Apple  and  Grape  Fruit..   92 

Salad,  Apple  and  Nut 88 

Salad,  Beet 91 

Salad,  Cabbage 89 

Salad,  Cherry 87 

Salad,  Cheese 91 

Salad,  Chicken. .    87 

Cold  Slaw 91 

Salad,  Cucumber 92 

Salad,  Cucumber  and  Corn  ....  90 
Dressing,  Boiled  Salad,  No.  i  . .  94 
Dressing,  Boiled  Salad,  No.  2.-94 
Dressing  for  Cabbage  Salad. ...   90 

Dressing,  Cooked  Salad 95 

Dressing  Cooked  with  Oil 94 

Dressing  for  Fruit  Salad 92 

Dressing, delicate  for  Fruit  Salad  94 

Dressing,  French 95 

Dressing,  French  Salad 94 

Dressing,  Mayonnaise 95 


Salad,  Egg 89 

Salad,  Egg 89 

Salad,  Egg  and  Banana 88 

Salad,   Fish 88 

Salad,  Fruit 87 

Salad,  Fruit 88 

Salad,  Fruit S8 

Salad,  Fruit 90 

Salad,  German  Potato 86 

Salad,  Golf 91 

Salad,  Malaga    Salad    (to  serve 

with  game) 93 

Salad,  Mock  Chicken 87 

Salad,  Orange 90 

Salad,  Pineapple 89 

Salad,  Potato 86 

Salad,     Potato,     with      French 

Dressing 86 

Salad,  Royal 89 

Salad,  Baked  Apple 93 

Salad,   Shrimp 87 

Salad,  Sweetbread 92 

Salad,  Tomato  Aspic 92 

Tomatoes  Stuffed 93 


PASTRY. 


Pie,  Apple 99 

Pie,  Apple  Puff 97 

Apple  Turnovers 98 

Banberry  Tarts 103 

Pie,  Cherry 101 

Pie,  Chocolate 104 

Pie,  Cranberry 96 

Pie,  Cream,  No.  1 101 


Pie,  Cream,  No.  2 101 

Pie  Crust 96 

Pie  Crust,  plain . 96 

Pie,  Current,  ripe 99 

Pie,  Gooseberry 99 

Pie,  Lemon,  No.   1 102 

Pie,  Lemon,  No.  2 102 

Pie,  Lemon,  No.  3 102 


Pack 

Pie,  Lemon,  No.  4 103 

Pie.  Lemon,  (old  fashioned).  •  •  102 

Mince  Meat 97 

Mince  Meat  (without  meat) 97 

Pie,  Mock  Cherry 96 

Pie,  Mock  Mince 97 

Pie,  Orange 99 

Pie,  Orange 99 

Pie,  Pineapple 100 

Pie    Raisin 98 


Page 

Pie,  Rhubarb,  No.  1 98 

Pie,  Rhubarb,  No.  2 98 

Pie,  Rhubarb,  No.  3 98 

Pie,  Sour  Milk 100 

Pie,  Southern 101 

Pie,  Squash 103 

Pie,  Squash 103 

Pie,  Sweet  Hearts 104 

Pie,  Tartlets 103 

Pie,  Washington 100 


HOT  DESSERTS. 


Apple  Purl 109 

Apple  Surprise 109 

Boiled  Pudding 107 

Brow  n  Betty 107 

Charlotte  Pudding 108 

Chocolate  Pudding 1  to 

Christmas    Pudding no 

Cocoanut  Pudding 106 

Cocoanut  Pudding no 

Dutch  Apple  Cake  Pudding 108 

Float 1 10 

Graham  Pudding,  Steamed. ...  107 

Hard  Sauce 107 

Huckleberry   Pudding 109 

Indian  Pudding,  Baked 105 


Indian  Pudding,  Delicious 106 

Orange  Souffle no 

Prime   Pudding 105 

Prune   Pudding 106 

Prune   Pudding 106 

Prune   Pudding 108 

Plum  Pudding m 

Plum  Pudding,  Duchesse 1 1 1 

Plum   Pudding,  English 112 

Pudding  Sauce,  Duchesse 11 1 

Rice  Custard 105 

Steamed    Puffs 105 

Suet  Pudding 106 

Suet  Pudding 109 


COLD  DESSERTS. 


Angel  Pudding 119 

Biscuit  Glace 113 

Bread  Pudding 115 

Charlotte  Russe 115 

Chocolate  Charlotte 114 

Cherry  Bavarian  Cream 121 

Coffee  Jelly 119 

Fruit  Pudding 114 

Gelatine,    Fruited 115 

Gelatine,  Pineapple. 1 15 

Grape   Fruit 118 

Lemon  Jelly 121 

Macaroon  Cream 119 

Marshmallow  Cream 118 

Minute  Chocolate  Walnut  Jelly.  117 

Mocha  Cream.    120 

Mountain  Dew  Pudding 119 

Nut  Pudding 113 


Oatmeal  Jelly 116 

Orange  Charlotte 120 

Orange  Cream  Pudding 115 

Pineapple  Sponge 116 

Pineapple  Mousse 116 

Pineapple   Tapioca 120 

Pineapple  Julep 120 

Sauce,  Cranberry 117 

Sauce,  Creamy 117 

Sauce,  Pudding 118 

Sauce,  Pudding  (Hard) 118 

Sauce,  Strawberry,  for  Cottage 

Pudding 118 

Sauce,  Wine 117 

Spanish   Cream 118 

Superb   Pudding   113 

Talpicon  of  Fruit 1 14 

Tipsy  Parson 116 


LOAF  AND  LAYER  CAKES. 


Cake,  Angel 

Cake,  Angel  Food 

Cake,  Apple  Sauce 

Cake,  Caramel  (Inexpensive) 

Cake,  Chocolate 

Cake,  Cinnamon 

Cake,  Coffee 

Cake,  Delicate 

Cake,  Fruit,  No.  i 

Cake,  Fruit,  No    2 

Cake,  Fruit,  White 

Cake,  Fruit,  Uncooked 

Cake,  Gingerbread 

Cake,  Gingerbread,  Olive's-. 

Cake,  Gingerbread,  Soft 

Cake,  Gold    

Cake,  Molasses  Sponge 

Cake,  Mocha 

Cake,  Orange,  No.  1 

Cake,  Orange,  No.  2 

Cake,  Plain, 

Cake,  Pork 

Cake,  Pound 

Cake,  Quick,  No.   1 


Page 

23 
23 
28 
26 

30 
28 

29 

24 
24 
25 
24 
25 
30 
3i 
31 
27 
30 
35 
27 
28 
26 
26 
26 


Page 

Cake,  Quick,  No.  2 124 

Cake,  Spice,  No.   1 129 

Cake,  Spice,  No    2 129 

Cake,  Spice,  Walnut 130 

Cake,  Sponge 125 

Cake,  Sponge,  Without  Water.  125 

Cake,  Sunshine,  No.   1 122 

Cake,  Sunshine,  No.  2 122 

Cake,      White      With      Yellow 

Frosting 123 

Cake,  A  Good  One  Egg 132 

Cake,  Chocolate 135 

Cake,  Chocolate,  Black 136 

Cake,  Chocolate,  Dark 134 

Cake,  Date 132 

Cake,  Deforest  Layer 132 

Cake,  Delicate  Layer 136 

Cake,  Devil  Food 134 

Cake,  Jersey 131 

Cake,  Lady  Baltimore 133 

Cake,  Peach 134 

Cake,  Perfect  Layer 133 

Cake,  Plain  Layer 133 


CAKE  FILLING  AND  FROSTING. 


Fill 
Fill 
Fill 
Fill 
Fill 
Fill 
Fill 
Fill 
Fill 
Fill 
Fill 


ng. 
ng. 
ng- 
ng. 
ng' 
ng> 
ng, 
ng, 
ngi 
ng, 
ng, 


Cake,  for 139 

Chocolate 138 

Chocolate,  Nut 139 

Cocoanut  Cream 137 

Cocoanut  and  Raisin..  138 

Coffee 137 

Fruit,  No.  1 139 

Fruit,  No.  2 140 

Lemon 137 

Nut 138 

Whipped  Cream 138 


Filling  and  Frosting,  Almond  • .  138 
Filling  and  Frosting,  Cocoanut- 138 
Frosting,  Boiled,  No.  1 139 


Frosting,  Boiled,  No.  2 
Frosting,  Chocolate,  No.  1 
Frosting,  Chocolate,  No.  2 

Frosting,  Fig 

Frosting,  Maple  Sugar 

Frosting,  Mocha- 


140 
141 
,141 
139 
*39 
141 
Frosting,  Uncooked 140 


SMALL  CAKES,  COOKIES  AND  DOUGHNUTS. 


Brownies 142 

Cocoanut   Balls 142 

Fried   Cakes 142 

Ginger  Snaps 142 

Hermits,  No.   1 142 

Hermits,  No.  2 143 

Marguerites,  No.  1 145 

Marguerites,  No.  2    145 

Marshmallow  Marguerites 145 


Molasses  Cookies 144 

Oatmeal  Cookies 144 

Oatmeal  Crisps 144 

Peanut  Macaroons 143 

Raisin   Cookies 143 

Raisin  Cookie  Filling 143 

Shrewsbury  Cakes 144 

Sour  Milk  Cookies 143 

Sugar  Cookies    144 


ICE  CREAMS,  SHERBETS  AND  BEVERAGES. 


Chocolate  Sauce,  To  Serve  Hot 

With  Ice  Cream. 150 

Chococolate  Sauce 1  ?o 


Chocolate  Sauce,  Rugby 1 

Coffee  Sauce,  Hot 1 

Claret  Sauce 1 

Strawberry  Sauce 1 


H7 
149 

152 


Frozen  Pudding,  No.  1 


o 

50 

5i 

H7 


Frozen  Pudding,  No.  2 

Grape  Ice 

Grape  Juice 

Grape      Juice      Sherbet      With 

Whipped   Cream 148 

Ice  Cream,  No.   1 147 

Ice  Cream,  No-   2 148 

Ice  Cream,  Coffee 148 


Page 

Ice  Cream  Chocolate 149 

Ice  Cream  Peach 149 

Ice  Cream,  (Very  Nice) 148 

Mousse  Cafe,  No.  1 146 

Mousse  Cafe,  No.  2 147 

Mousse  Coffee 146 

Mousse  Maple 146 

Parfait  Coffee 149 

Parfait  Raspberry 149 


Page 

Sultana  Roll  With  Claret  Sauce- 150 

Cherry  Cup 153 

Coffee 151 

Coffee,  After  Dinner  or  Black..  152 

Punch  Fruit 1152 

Punch  Purple 1153 

Raspberry  Shrub 152 

Raspberry  Syrup,  Acidulated.  .153 


Tea 


151 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES. 


Amber  Marine  lade 161 

Apple  Ginger 161 

Blackberries,  Canned 154 

Chili  Sauce 156 

Chow  Chow 1  i^S 

Chow  Chow,  Dutch 157 

Cold  Catsup 158 

Grape  Catsup 160 

Cranberry  Sauce 159 

Cucumber  Salad  (Pickle) 155 

Dutch  Salad  (Pickle) 155 

Ginger  Pear 159 

Oil  Pickles 162 

Orange  Marmalade 161 

Pepper  Relish 159 

Peaches,  Canned.  ...    154 

Pear  Conserve 162 


Pickle,  Chopped 156 

Pickle,  French 157 

Pickle,  Mixed 156 

Pickled  Beets  (Sweet) 162 

Pickled  Peaches  or  Pears 162 

Rhubarb,  Canned 160 

Rhubarb  Jam 161 

Raspberries 15  c 

Raspberries,  to  can 1 54 

Strawberries,  Uncooked 160 

Tomato  Butter 151; 

Tomato  Ketchup,  No.  1 158 

Tomato  Ketchup,  No.  2 1158 

Tomato  Ketchup,  No.  3 160 

Tomato  Sauce,  Spiced 159 

Venison  Jelly 1^15 

Wine,  Dandelion 157 


CANDY. 

Almonds,  Salted 166       Fondent  for  Chocolate  or  Wal- 


Buttercups i6<; 

Butter  Scotch 1 64 

Cocoanut  Bars 165 

Cocoanut  Candv 166 

Chocolate  Caramels •  • 167 

Chocolate  Peppermints 166 

Cream  Candy 163 

Dates,  Stuffed 165 

Fig  Candy 165 


nut  Creams 166 

Fudge  Cake  Candy 164 

Karo  Candy 163 

Licorice  Drops 165 

Marshmallow  Candy 164 

Maple  Creams 164 

Peppermint  Drops 164 

Sultana  Caramels 167 

Turkish  Delight 163 

Walnut  Caramels. 167 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS. 


Baking  Powder 170 

Cleaning  Fluid 169 

Castor  Oil,  how  to  give  to  chil- 


dren 


Freshening  up  Potatoes. 170 

Iron  Rust,  to  Remove 172 

Magic  Silver  Cleaner 168 

Mildew 168 

Mouse  Holes,  to  stop 168 

Popcorn 172 

Suet,  to  chop 172 

To  Clean  Hair  Brushes 169 

To  Destroy  Bed  Bugs 169 


To  Destroy  Carpet  Bugs 171 

To  Keep  Eggs 170 

To  Remove  Ink  Spots 168 

To  Seed  Raisins 172 

To  Remove  the  Skin  from  To- 
matoes   172 

To  Thaw  a  Frozen  Water  Pipe.  168 
To  Turn  the  Hem  of  New  Table 

Napkins 170 

Washing  Fluid 170 

When  a  Kettle  Threatens  to  Boil 
Over 1 70 


1780  —  For  130  Years  —  1910 

BAKER'S 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate 


have  been  the  leaders.  No 
other  Food  Products  have  a 
like  record  in  Years,  Honors 
and  World  Wide  Use. 


52 


HIGHEST    AWARDS    IN 
EUROPE  AND  AMERICA 


The  trade-mark,  n  La  Belle 
Chocolatiere,"  on  every 
genuine  package. 

A  beautifully  illustrated  book- 
let of  new  recipes  for  Home 
Made    Candies    and    Dainty 

Dishes  sent  free. 

Registered  TJ.  S.  Pat.  Office 

Drop  a  postal  to 

WALTER  BAKER  &  CO.  Ltd. 

DORCHESTER,  MASS. 


Every  Good  Cook  Knows 

That  the  first  essential  of 
good  cooking  is  the  use  of 
good  ingredients. 

EVERY 
EMBROIDERER 

Should  know  that  the  first 
essential  of  successful  em- 
broidery is  the  use  of  the  BEST  EMBROIDERY  SILKS 
obtainable.  It  is  alike  a  waste  of  time  and  money  to  use 
inferior  silks  that  are  likely  to  run  in  washing  and  render  the 
finished  piece  worthless  after  the  first  washing. 


INSURE  SUCCESS  BY  USING 

Brainerd  &  Armstrong's  Embroidery  Silks. 


Dwight's  Cow  Brand 


IN  RECIPES  CALLING  FOR  SODA  OR  SALERATUS  ALWAYS 

use'DWIGHTS  cow  brand 


GUARANTEED  BY  CHURCH  S  OWIGHT  C0..UH0ER  IHE  FOOOA  DRUGS  ACT.  JURE  30.1906 


ESTABLISHED 


LARGE 
PACKAGE 

Over  70  Years. 


TO  AVOID  DISAPPOINTMENT.  INSIST  UPON  HAVING 
COW  BRAND  IN  ORIGINAL  PACKAGES,  AND  DON'T  BE  PUT 
OFF  WITH    CHEAP,    INFERIOR    SUBSTITUTIONS 

CHURCH  &.  DWIGHT  CO.,  New  York. 

9EN0  ADDRESS  FOR  COW  BRAND  COOK  BOOR-FREE. 


No  Help  for  a  Weary  Housekeeper  like  a 

WHITE  MOP  WRINGER. 

Because    it    is    the     neatest,    easiest    and    most    perfect 
machine.     It 

...WRINGS  HOPS... 

Thereby    saving    one-half  the  labor   of   mopping    floors, 

linoleums,  oil-cloths  and  carpets. 
Family  Sizes  $1.50  and  $1.75. 

Write  for  Booklet. 

WHITE  MOP  WRINGER  CO.,  -        -        Fultonville,  N.  Y. 


BUY 

Fleischmann's    Yeast 

HAS    NO    EQUAL. 


JONES  DAIRY  FARM 

...FOR... 

Sausage,    Sliced    Bacon,    Ham,    Lard,    Maple 
Goods  and  Buckwheat  Flour, 

Any  year  between  October  ist  and  May. 


JONES  DAIRY  FARM, 

Ft.  Atkinson,   Wis. 


TRY  THE  RECIPES  IN  THIS  BOOK  FOR 

MINUTE   TAPIOCA. 

(Requires  no  soaking.) 

MINUTE   GELATINE   (PLAIN)  (Dissolves  Instantly)    MINUTE   GELATINE 

(FLAVORED)  (All  Flavored  for  you). 

They  are  three  products  whose  high  quality  has  placed  them  in  a 
class  by  themselves.  Ask  your  grocer  for  them.  "  "  Look  for  the  Minute- 
Man  on  the  package." 

MINUTE  TAPIOCA  CO.,  -  -  Orange,  Mass. 


Dr.  J.  M.  Underhill, 


•Proprietor  of- 


NEW  LONDON  CITY 


Veterinary 


Hospital 


Veterinary  Surgeon  and  Dentist 

Graduate  of  Ontario  Veterinary   College.      Also  member  of  the 
Conn.  State  Veterinary  Medical  Association. 


Office  and  Hospital,  29  Golden  Street. 


Special  Care  and  Treatment   Given  to  Dogs 
and  Small  Animals. 


RESIDENCE,  307  HUNTINGTON  STREET. 

Telephone  Connection. 


The  As=Moon 
..LABORATORY.. 

New  London,  Conn. 


No.  26,591.  Guaranteed  by  the   AS-MOON   Laboratory 
Under  the  Pure  Food  and  Drug  Act. 

Hay  Fever  and  Asthma. 

Suffocating  agony,  difficulty  in  breathing, 
choking  sensation.  Asthma  most  aggravating 
and  long  standing,  cured  with  AS-MOON, 
THE  GREAT  REMEDY. 

Get  It.     Try  It.     Be  sure  it  is  the 
AS=MOON  HAY  FEVER  and  ASTHMA  REflEDY. 


-MOON 

TWO  Prescriptions  of  a  Famous  Specialist. 
Price   $1.50 


For  sale  by  druggists  everywhere. 


HAY  20  1910 


TF  you  would  have  soups 
and   gravies   perfect  in 
every  respect — in    flavor, 
consistency  and  smooth- 
ness— thicken  them  with 

DURYEAS' 

Corn  Starch 

This  pure,  dainty,  wholesome 
product  imparts  to  nearly  all 
dishes  a  new  and  pleasing  qual- 
ity of  goodness.  How  it  helps 
you  to  better  foods  and  daintier 
desserts  is  explained  in  our 

"Book  of  Recipes 
and  Cooking  Suggestions" 

by  two  famous  authorities. 

Free  on  request. 

Grocers — pound  packages — JOc. 

NATIONAL  STARCH  COMPANY, 

NEW  YORK 


^his  is  the  great  syrup 

for  candy,  table  use  and  all  kinds  of 
cooking.    Makes  the  finest  taffy, 
butter  scotch  and  fudge  you  ever  ate. 

JQirp 

CORN  SYRUP 

spread    on    bread  is  fine  for  children.    It 
is   the  one  wholesome  syrup  for  griddle 
cakes.      In  cooking   it   imparts  a   natural 
flavor  where  some  sweet  is  needed.    Agrees 
with  everybody. 
Send  for  free  "Karo  Cook 
==3^  Book,"  showing  the 
»]  many  uses  of  Karo  in 

cooking  and  candy 

making. 

CORN  PRODUCTS  REFINING  CO. 

NEW  YORK  P.  O.  Box  161 


I 


I 


Sunshine 
Cook  Book 


DELICIOUS  CAKE 


YOUR  Cake,  Biscuit  and  Muffins  will  be 
light,  delicate  and  of  the  finest  texture  if 
made  with 

RUM  FORD 

"THE   WHOLESOME" 

BAKING  POWDER 

RUMFORD  excels  all  other  baking  powders 
in  purity  and  healthfulness.  and  food  made 
with  it  will  always  be  nutritious  and  easily 
digested. 

JT  restores  to  fine  wheat  flour  the  nutritious 
and  health-giving  properties  removed  in  the 
process  of  bolting. 

IT  imparts  neither  a  bitter  or  baking  powder 
taste  to  the  food.  Does  not  impair  the 
most  delicate  flavoring  which  may  be  used. 


Each  can  contains  an  order  for  a  Practical 
Cook  Book,  compiled  by  the  Principal  of 
the  Boston   Cooking  School. 


M 


I 

p 


LE  N  '10 


I 


