BOSTON 
PUBLIC 
UBI^RY 


;  '*\  r^  \ — \  r  —\  5 — I 


fn 


J 


^\  X.  fi  y. 


I^HAS.E.LAURIATCO 
385Wash'nSt.Boston 


A  THOUSAND  WAYS  TO 
PLEASE  A  HUSBAND 


A 

THOUSAND  WAYS 

TO  PLEASE  A  HUSBAND 

WITH 
BETTINA'S  BEST  RECIPES 

-BY- 
LOUISE  BENNETT  WEAVER 

AND 

HELEN  COWLES  LeCRON 


The  Romance  of  Cookery 
AND  HOUSEKEEPING 

Decorations  by 

ELIZABETH  COLBOURNE 


A.  L.  Burt  Company 
Publishers  New  York 


Copyright,  1917 

by 

&itton  Publishing  Company,  Ins* 


All  Rights  Reserved 


Made  in  U.S.  A. 


m^""^mi. 


^v^» 


A    DEDICATION 

To  every  other  little  bride 
Who  has  a  ''BoF'  to  please, 

And  says  she's  tried  and  tried  and  tried 
To  cook  with  skill  and  ease. 

And  cant! — we  offer  here  as  guide 
Bettinas  Recipes! 

To  her  whose  ''BoF'  is  prone  to  wear 

A  sad  and  hungry  looky 

Because  the  maid  he  thought  so  fair 

Is — well — she  just  cant  cook! 
To  her  we  say :  do  not  despair; 

Just  try  Bettincis  Bo  ok  I 


Bettina's  Measurements  Are  All  Level 

C  =  cup 
t   =  teaspoon 
T  =  tablespoon 
lb.  =  pound 
pt.  ==  pint 
B.P.  =  baking-powder 


mSHsIESMMMMHMMEBMmMai 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

I  Home  at  Last ii 

II  Bettina's  First  Real  Dinner 14 

III  Bettina's  First  Guest 17 

IV  Bettina   Gives   a   Luncheon 21 

V  Bob  Helps  to  Get  Dinner 25 

VI  Cousin  Matilda  Calls 28 

VII  A  New-Fashioned  Sunday  Dinner.  . .  33 

VIII  Celebrating  the  Fourth 36 

IX  Uncle  John  and  Aunt  Lucy  Make  a 

Visit 39 

X  Ruth  Inspects  Bettina's  Kitchen...  42 

XI  Bettina's  Birthday  Gift 46 

XII  Bettina's  Father  Tries  Her  Cooking  49 

XIII  Bob  Helps  With  the  Dinner 53 

XIV  A  Sunday  Evening  Tea 56 

XV  A  Motor  Picnic 59 

XVI  Bettina  Has  a  Caller 62 

XVII  Bob  Gets  Breakfast  on  Sunday 65 

XVIII  Bettina  Gives  a  Porch   Party 69 

XIX  Bettina  and  the  Expense  Budget.  ...  73 

XX  Mrs.  Dixon  and  Bettina's  Experiment  yy 

XXI  A  Rainy  Day  Dinner 81 

XXII  Buying  a  Refrigerator 84 

XXIII  Bettina's  Sunday  Dinner 87 

XXIV  Bettina  Visits  a  Tea-room 90 

XXV  Bettina    Entertains    Alice   and    Mr. 

Harrison   93 

XXVI  Over  the  Telephone 97 

XXVII  Bettina  Has  A  Baking  Day 100 

XXVIII  Polly  and  the  Children 103 

XXIX  Bettina  Puts  Up  Fruit 107 


Contents 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

XXX    A  Cool  Summer  Day iii 

XXXI    Bob  and  Bettina  Alone 114 

XXXII  Bettina  Attends  a  Morning  Wedding  117 

XXXIII  After  the  'Tea" 121 

XXXIV  Bettina  Gives  a  Porch  Breakfast 124 

XXXV    A  Piece  of  News 127 

XXXVI  Bettina  Entertains  Her  Father  and 

Mother    130 

XXXVII    The  Big  Secret 133 

XXXVIII    After  the  Circus 136 

XXXIX     Mrs.  Dixon  Asks  Questions 139 

XL    A  Telegram  from  Uncle  Eric 143 

XLI  Bettina  Entertains  State  Fair  Visi- 
tors    147 

XLII    Uncle  John  and  Aunt  Lucy 149 

XLIII     Sunday  Dinner  at  the  Dixon's 151 

XLIV    A  Rainy  Evening  at  Home 154 

XLV    Ruth  Makes  an  Apple  Pie 159 

XLVI    Bettina  Makes  Apple  Jelly 162 

XLVII    After  A  Park  Party 166 

XLVIII    Bettina  Spills  THE  Ink 169 

XLIX     Bettina  Attends  a  Porch  Party 171 

L  A  Dinner  Cooked  in  the  Morning...  173 

LI    A  Sunday  Dinner 176 

LII    Bob  Makes  Peanut  Fudge 179 

LIII     Dinner  at  the  Dixon's 182 

LIV  A  Good-bye  Luncheon  for  Bernadette  185 

LV  Bettina     Plans    an     Announcement 

Luncheon  188 

LVI  Ruth  and  Bettina  Make  Preparations  191 

LVII  A  Rainbow  Announcement  Luncheon  igr^ 

LVIII    An  Early  Caller 1 V7 

LIX    Ruth  Comes  to  Luncheon 200 

LX    A  Kitchen  Shower  for  Alice 205 

LXI    A  Rainy  Night  Meal 209 

LXII    Alice  Gives  a  Luncheon 212 

LXIII     Motoring  with  the  Dixons 215 


Contents 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

LXIV  Ruth  Makes  Baking  Powder  Biscuits  218 

LXV     Plans  for  the  Wedding 220 

LXVI  A  Guest  to  a  Dinner  of  Left-Overs.  . .  222 

LXVII    A  Handkerchief  Shower 224 

LXVIII    Just  the  Two  of  Them 22y 

LXIX    A  Luncheon  in  the  Country 229 

LXX    A  "Pair  Shower"  for  Alice 232 

LXXI     Bob  Makes  Popcorn  Balls 235 

LXXII    And  Where  Was  THE  Dinner 237 

LXXIII    Alice  Tells  Her  Troubles 240 

LXXIV    The  Dixons  Come  to  Dinner 242 

LXXV    The  Wedding   Invitations 245 

LXXVI     Hallowe'en  Preparations 248 

LXXVn     Hallowe'en  Revels 250 

LXXVni      A  FOT^ETASTE  OF  WiNTER 255 

LXXIX     Surprising  Alice  and  Harry 258 

LXXX    A  Dinner  for  the  Bridal  Party 261 

LXXXI     Rehearsing  the  Ceremony 264 

LXXXn    After  the  Wedding 267 

LXXXHI    A  "Happen-in"  Luncheon 270 

LXXXIV    Uncle  John  a  Guest  at  Dinner 273 

LXXXV  During  the  Teachers'  Convention..  275 

LXXXVI    A  Luncheon  for  the  Teachers 278 

LXXXVn    Ruth  Comes  to  Luncheon 281 

LXXXVni    The  Hickory  Log 284 

LXXXIX     Some  Christmas  Plans 287 

XC    After  the  Football  Game 289 

XCI  A  Thanksgiving  Dinner  in  the  Coun- 
try    292 

XCn     Planning  THE  Christmas  Cards 295 

XCni     Harry  and  Alice  Return 299 

XCIV     The  Firelight  Social 302 

XCV    Alice's  Troubles 305 

XCVI  Some  of  Bettina's   Christmas  Plans  308 
XCVn  More  of  Bettina's   Christmas    Shop- 
ping    311 

XCVIII    Christmas  Gifts 313 


Contents 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

XCIX    A  Christmas  Shower « 316 

C    Bettina  Gives  a  Dinner 320 

CI    Bob's  Christmas  Gift  to  Bettina 322 

CII    A  Christmas  Breakfast 325 

cm    A  Supper  for  Two 327 

CIV    Alice  Comes  to  Luncheon 331 

CV    Ruth  Stays  to  Dinner 334 

CVI    How  Bettina  Made  Candy 337 

CVII    Ruth's  Plans 339 

CVIII    A  Luncheon  for  Three 342 

CIX    The  DixoNS  Come  to  Dinner 345 

CX    A  Steamed  Pudding 349 

CXI    On  Valentine's  Day 352 

CXII    Ruth  Gives  a  Dinner  for  Four 354 

CXIII    Alice  Practices  Economy 357 

CXIV    A  Company  Dinner  for  Bob 360 

CXV     Supper  After  the  Theatre 363 

CXVI    Washington's  Birthday  Plans 366 

CXVII    An  Afternoon  with  Bettina 368 

CXVIII    A  Washington's  Birthday  Tea 370 

CXIX    Another  Oven  Dinner 373 

CXX     Bob  Makes  Pop-Overs 376 

CXXI     In  March 379 

CXXII    A  FiRELEss  Cooker  for  Aunt  Lucy 382 

CXXIII    The  Dixons  Drop  in  for  Dessert 384 

CXXIV     Ruth  Passes  By 387 

CXXV  Bettina  Entertains  a  Small  Neighbor  389 

CXXVI    A  Sunday  Night  Tea 392 

CXXVII    A  Shamrock  Luncheon 395 

CXXVIII    At  Dinner 397 

CXXIX    An  Anniv^ersary  Dinner 399 

CXXX    Ruth   C^mes  to  Dinner 402 

CXXXI     Mildred's   Spring  Vacation 407 

CXXXII     Helping  Bettina 410 

CXXXIIl     Help  NG  with  a  Company  Dinner 413 

CXXXIV     M11.DRED  s  Day 415 

CXXXV    PoLL\  Comes  for  Mildred 418 


Contents 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

CXXXVI  Mildred's  Plans 421 

CXXXVII  A  Luncheon  for  Polly 424 

CXXXVIII  Furs  to  Put  Away 427 

CXXXIX  Planning  a  Children's  Party 429 

CXL  The   Party   Circus 432 

CXLI  Planning  A  Luncheon 435 

CXLII  The  New  Car 437 

CXLIII  In  HousECLEANiNG  Time 441 

CXLIV  Mrs.  Dixon  Happens  in 443 

CXLV  Engagement  Presents 446 

CXLVI  With  Housecleaning  Over 449 

CXLVII  Spring  Marketing 451 

CXLVIII  Plans  for  tee  Wedding 453 

CXLIX  Entertaining  the  Wedding  Guests..  455 

CL  The   Bridesmaids'   Dinner 457 

CLI  A  Morning  Wedding  IN  June 459 

CLII  The  First  Year  Ends 461 


JUNE. 

No,  you  cannot  live  on  kisses. 
Though  the  honeymoon  is  sweet, 

Harken,  brides,  a  true  word  this  is,- 
Even  lovers  have  to  eat. 


CHAPTER   I 


HOME  AT  LAST 


C^TTOME    at    last!"    sighed 
Al    Bettina  happily   as  the 
hot  and  dusty  travelers  left  the 
train. 

"Why  that  contented  sigh?" 
asked  Bob.  "Because  our  wed- 
ding trip  is  over?  Well,  any- 
how, Bettina,  it's  after  five. 
Shall  we  have  dinner  at  the 
hotel?" 

"Hotel  ?  Why,  Bob  !  with  our 
house  and  our  dishes  and  our  silver  just  waiting  for  us?  Vm 
ashamed  of  you !  We'll  take  the  first  car  for  home — a  street- 
car, not  a  taxi !  Our  extravagant  days  are  over,  and  the  time 
has  come  to  show  you  that  Bettina  knows  how  to  keep  house. 
You  think  that  you  love  me  now,  Bobby,  but  just  wait  till  you 
sit  down  to  a  real  strawberry  shortcake  made  by  a  real  cook 
in  a  real  home !" 

Half  an  hour  later  Bob  was  unlocking  the  door  of  the  new 
brown  bungalow.  "Isn't  it  a  dear?"  cried  Bettina  proudly. 
"When  we've  had  time  to  give  it  grass  and  shrubs  and  flowers 
and  a  vegetable  garden,  no  place  in  town  will  equal  it !  And 
as  for  porch  furniture,  how  I'd  like  to  get  at  Mother's  attic  and 
transform  some  of  her  discarded  things!" 

"Just  now  I'd  rather  get  at  some  of  Mother's  cooking!" 
grinned  Bob. 

II 


12     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Oh,  dear,  I  forgot !  I'll  have  supper  ready  in  ten  minutes. 
Do  you  remember  my  emergency  shelf?  Why,  Bob — Bob, 
they  must  have  known  we  were  coming !  Here's  ice — and 
milk — and  cream — and  butter — and  bread — and  rolls,  and  even 
a  grape  fruit!  They  knew,  and  didn't  meet  the  train  because 
they  thought  we  would  prefer  to  have  our  first  meal  alone! 
Wasn't  that  dear  of  them?  And  this  will  save  you  a  trip  to 
the  corner  grocery !" 

Bettina  fastened  a  trim  percale  bungalow  apron  over  her 
traveling  suit,  and  swiftly  and  surely  assembled  the  little  meal. 

*'I  like  that  apron,"  said  Bob.  "It  reminds  me  of  the  rainy 
day  when  we  fixed  the  emergency  shelf.     That  was  fun." 

"Yes,  and  work  too,"  said  Bettina,  "but  I'm  glad  we  did  it. 
Do  you  remember  how  much  I  saved  by  getting  things  in  dozen 
and  half  dozen  lots?  And  Mother  showed  me  how  much 
better  it  was  to  buy  the  larger  sizes  in  bottled  things,  because 
in  buying  the  smaller  bottles  you  spend  most  of  your  money 
for  the  glass.  Now  that  you  have  to  pay  my  bills.  Bob,  you'll 
be  glad  that  I  know  those  things  !" 

"I  think  you  know  a  great  deal,"  said  Bob  admiringly.  "Lots 
of  girls  can  cook,  but  mighty  few  know  how  to  be  economical 
at  the  same  time !     It's  great  to  be  your " 

"Dinner  is  served,"  Bettina  interrupted.  "It's  a  'pick-up 
meal,'  but  I'm  hungry,  aren't  you?  And  after  this,  sir,  no 
more  canned  things !" 

And  Bob  sat  down  to: 

Creamed  Tuna  on  Toast  Strips 

Canned   Peas   with   Butter   Sauce 

Rolls  Butter 

Strawberry    Preserves 

Hot  Chocolate  with  Marshmallows 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed  Tuna  on  Toast  Strips  (Two  portions) 

I  T-butter  ^  slice  pimento 

I  T-flour  I  C-milk 

%  t-salt  3  slices  of  bread 

y2  C-tuna 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  13 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pimento.  Mix  well. 
Gradually  pour  in  the  milk.  Allow  the  mixture  to  boil  one 
minute.  Stir  constantly.  Add  the  fish,  cook  one  minute  and 
pour  over  toasted  strips  of  bread. 

Hot  Chocolate  (Three  cups) 

I   square   of  chocolate       2  C-milk 
3  T-sugar  ^  t-vanilla 

2/3  C-water  3  marshmallows 

Cook  chocolate,  sugar  and  water  until  a  thin  custard  is 
formed.  Add  milk  gradually  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Whip  with 
an  Qgg  beater,  as  this  breaks  up  the  albumin  found  in  choco- 
late, and  prevents  the  coating  from  forming  over  the  top.  Add 
vanilla  and  marshmallows.  Allow  to  stand  a  moment  and  pour 
into  the  cups. 

Strawberry  Preserves   (Six  one-half  pt.  glasses) 

4  lbs.  berries  3lbs.  sugar 

3  C-water 

Pick  over,  wash  and  hull  the  berries.  Make  a  syrup  by 
boiling  the  sugar  and  water  fifteen  minutes.  Fill  sterilized  jars 
with  the  berries.  Cover  with  syrup  and  let  stand  fifteen 
minutes  to  settle.  Add  more  berries.  Adjust  rubbers  and 
covers.  Place  on  a  folded  cloth  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Heat 
water  to  boiling  point  and  cook  slowly  one  hour.  Screw  on 
covers  securely. 

On  Bettina's  Emergency  Shell 

6  cans  pimentos  (small  size)  6  cans  tomatoes 

6  cans  tuna  (small  size)  6  pt.  jars  pickles 

6  cans  salmon  (small  size)  6  pt.  jars  olives 

6  jars  dried  beef  6  small  cans  condensed  milk 

12  cans  corn  6  boxes  sweet  wafers 

12  cans  peas  I  pound  box  salted  codfish 

6  cans  string  beans  3  pkg.  marshmallows 

6  cans  lima  beans  3  cans  mushrooms 
6  cans  devilled  ham  (small  size)       2  pkg.  macaroni 


CHAPTER   II 
BETTINA'S   FIRST   REAL   DINNER 

^^OAY,  isn't  it  great  to  be  alive!"  exclaimed  Bob,  as  h** 

^  looked  across  the  rose-decked  table  at  the  flushed  but 
happy  Bettina.     "And  a  beefsteak  dinner,  too  !" 

"Steak  is  expensive,  dear,  and  you'll  not  get  it  often,  but  as 
this  is  our  first  real  dinner  in  our  own  home,  I  had  to  cele- 
brate. I  bought  enough  for  two  meals,  because  buying  steak 
for  one  meal  for  two  people  is  beyond  any  modest  purse !  So 
you'll  meet  that  steak  again  tomorrow,  but  I  don't  believe  that 
you'll  bow  in  recognition  !" 

"So  you  marketed  today,  did  you?" 

"Indeed  I  did !  I  bought  a  big  basket,  and  went  at  it  like 
a  seasoned  housekeeper.  I  had  all  the  staples  to  get,  you 
know,  and  lots  of  other  things.  After  dinner  I'll  show  you 
the  labelled  glass  jars  on  my  shelves ;  it  was  such  fun  putting 
things  away !  June  is  a  wonderful  month  for  housekeepers. 
I've  planned  the  meals  for  days  ahead,  because  I  know  that's 
best.  Then  I'll  go  to  the  market  several  times  a  week,  and 
if  I  plan  properly  I  won't  have  to  order  by  telephone.  It 
seems  so  extravagant  to  buy  in  that  way  unless  you  know 
exactly  what  you  are  getting.  I  like  to  plan  for  left-overs, 
too.  For  instance,  the  peas  in  this  salad  were  left  from 
yesterday's  dinner,  and  the  pimento  is  from  that  can  I  opened. 
Then,  too,  I  cooked  tomorrow's  potatoes  with  these  to  save 
gas  and  bother.     You'll  have  them  served  in  a  different  way, 

of  course.     And Oh,  yes.  Bob,"  Bettina  chattered  on,  "I 

saw  Ruth  down  town,  and  have  asked  all  five  of  my  brides- 

14 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  15 

maids  to  luncheon  day  after  tomorrow.  Won't  that  be  fun? 
But  I  promise  you  that  the  neglected  groom  shall  have  every 
one  of  the  good  things  when  he  comes  home  at  night !" 

"It  makes  me  feel  happy,  I  can  tell  you,  to  have  a  home  like 
this.  It's  pleasant  to  be  by  ourselves,  but  at  the  same  time 
I  can't  help  wishing  that  some  of  the  bachelors  I  know  could 
see  it  all  and  taste  your  cooking !" 

"Well,  Bob,  I  want  you  to  feel  free  to  have  a  guest  at  any 
time.  If  my  dinners  are  good  enough  for  you,  I'm  sure  they're 
good  enough  for  any  guest  whom  you  may  bring.  And  it 
isn't  very  hard  to  make  a  meal  for  three  out  of  a  meal  for  two. 
Now,  Bobby,  if  you're  ready,  will  you  please  get  the  dessert?" 

"What  ?  Strawberry  shortcake  ?  Well,  this  is  living !  I  tell 
you  what,  Bettina,  I  call  this  a  regular  man-size  meal !" 

It  consisted  of : 

Pan-Broiled  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits  Butter 

rchubarb  Sauce  Pea  and  Celery  Salad 

Strawberry  Short-cake  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements   are   level) 

Pan-Broiled  Steak  (Two  portions) 

I  lb.  steak  %  t-pepper 

I  T-butter  2  T-hot  water 

I  t-salt  I  t-parsley  chopped 

Wipe  the  meat  carefully  with  a  wet  cloth.  Remove  super- 
fluous fat  and  any  gristle.  Cut  the  edges  to  prevent  them 
from  curling  up.  When  the  broiling  oven  is  very  hot,  place 
the  micat,  without  any  fat,  upon  a  hot  flat  pan,  directly  under 
the  blaze.  Brown  both  sides  very  quickly.  Turn  often.  Re- 
duce heat  and  continue  cooking  about  seven  minutes,  or  longer 
if  desired.  Place  on  a  warm  platter ;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  bits  of  butter.  Set  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  melt  the 
butter.  If  salt  is  added  while  cooking,  the  juices  will  be  drawn 
out.  A  gravy  may  be  made  by  adding  hot  water,  butter,  salt, 
pepper  and  parsley  to  the  pan.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the 
steak. 


16     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

New  Potatoes  in  Cream  (Two  portions) 

4  new  potatoes   i  qt.  water 
I  t-salt 

Scrape  four  medium  sized  new  potatoes.  Cook  in  boiling 
water  (salted)  until  tender  when  pierced  with  a  fork.  Drain 
off  the  water,  and  shake  the  kettle  over  the  fire  gently,  to  allow 
the  steam  to  escape  and  make  the  potatoes  mealy.  Make  the 
following  white  sauce  and  pour  over  the  potatoes. 

White  Sauce  for  New   Potatoes    (Two   portions) 

2  T-butter     i   c-milk 

2  T-flour      y2  t-salt 

^  t-paprika 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Thoroughly 
mix,  slowly  add  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Allow  sauce  to 
cook  two  minutes. 

Strawberry   Shortcake  (Two  portions) 

2  T-lard  1/3  t-salt 

1  T-butter  4  t-baking  powder 

2  c-sifted  flour  i  qt.  strawberries 
54  C-milk  2/3  C-sugar 

Cut  the  fat  into  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  until  the 
consistency  of  cornmeal.  Gradually  add  the  milk,  using  a 
knife  to  mix.  Do  not  handle  any  more  than  absolutely  neces- 
sary. Toss  the  dough  upon  a  floured  board  or  a  piece  of  clean 
brown  paper.  Pat  into  the  desired  shape,  and  place  in  a  pan. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  12  to  15  minutes.  Split,  spread  with 
butter,  and  place  strawberries,  crushed  and  sweetened,  between 
and  on  top.     Serve  with  cream. 


CHAPTER   III 

BETTINA'S  FIRST  GUEST 

^^TTELLO!  Yes,  this  is  Bettina !  Why,  Bob,  of  course! 
-■-  -^  Is  he  a  real  woman-hater?  No,  I've  never  met  any, 
but  I'll  just  invite  Alice,  too,  and  tomorrow  you  won't  be 
calling  him  that.  Six-thirty  ?  Yes,  I'll  be  ready  for  you  both ; 
I'm  so  glad  you  asked  him.  He'll  be  our  first  guest !  Good- 
bye !" 

Bettina  left  the  telephone  with  more  misgivings  than  her 
tone  had  indicated.  She  couldn't  disappoint  Bob,  and  she 
liked  unexpected  company,  but  the  dinner  which  she  had 
planned  was  prepared  largely  from  the  recipes  filed  as  "left- 
overs" in  her  box  of  indexed  cards. 

"Well,  Bob  will  like  it,  anyhow,"  she  declared  confidently, 
"and  if  Alice  can  come,  we'll  have  enough  scintillating  table- 
talk  to  make  up  for  disappointments." 

Alice  accepted  with  delight,  promising  to  wear  "a  dream  o\ 
a  gown  that  just  came  home,"  and  confessing  to  a  sentimental 
feeling  at  the  thought  of  dining  with  such  a  new  bride  and 
groom. 

"Let's  see,"  said  Bettina  in  her  spick  and  span  little  kitchen, 
"there  is  meat  enough,  but  I  must  hard-boil  some  eggs  to  help 
out  these  potatoes.  'Potatoes  Anna'  will  be  delicious.  Good- 
ness, what  would  my  home  economics  teacher  have  said  if  she 
had  heard  me  say  'hard-boil'?  They  mustn't  really  be  boiled 
at  all,  just  'hard-cooked'  in  water  kept  at  the  boiling  point. 
There  will  be  enough  baked  green  peppers  for  four,  and 
enough  of  the  pudding,  and  if  I  add  some  very  good  coffee, 

17 


18    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

I  don't  believe  that  Bob's  Mr.  Harrison  will  feel  that  women 
are  such  nuisances  after  all!  It  isn't  an  elaborate  meal,  but 
it's  wholesome,  and  at  any  rate,  our  gas  bill  will  be  a  little 
smaller  because  everything  goes  into  the  oven." 

When  Alice  arrived,  Bettina  was  putting  the  finishing 
touches  on  her  table.     "Alice,  you  look  stunning !" 

"And  you  look  lovely,  which  is  better!  And  the  table  is 
charming!  Those  red  clover  blossoms  in  that  brown  basket 
make  a  perfect  center-piece!     How  did  you  think  of  it?" 

"Mother  Necessity  reminded  me,  my  dear!  My  next  door 
neighbor  has  roses,  but  I  covet  some  for  my  luncheon  tomor- 
row, and  did  not  like  to  ask  for  any  today.  So  I  had  to  use 
these  red  clover  blooms  from  our  own  back  yard.  They  are 
simple,  like  the  dinner." 

"Don't  you  envy  me,  Harrison?"  asked  Bob  at  the  table. 
"This  is  my  third  day  of  real  home  cooking !  You  were  unex- 
pected company,  too !" 

The  dinner  consisted  of : 

Boubons  with  Tomato  Sauce 
Potatoes  Anna  Baked  Green  Peppers  Stuffed 

Bread  Butter 

Cottage   Pudding  Lemon   Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Boubons  (Four  portions) 

1  C-cooked  meat  ground  fine  (one  or  more 
kinds  may  be  used) 

2  T-fresh  bread  crumbs 
%  t-pepper 

^  C-milk 

I  T-green  pepper  or  pimento  chopped  fine 
%  t-celery    salt 

Yz  t-salt 
I  t-butter  (melted) 

Beat  the  egg,  add  milk,  seasonings,  melted  butter,  bread- 
crumbs and  meat.  Mix  thoroughly.  Fill  buttered  cups  three- 
fourths  full  of  mixture.     Place  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  19 

bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes.  The  mixture  is  done 
as  soon  as  it  resists  pressure  in  the  center.  Allow  them  to 
remain  in  the  pans  a  few  minutes,  then  remove  carefully  upon 
a  serving  plate.  They  may  be  made  in  a  large  mould  or  indi- 
vidual ones.     Serve  with  the  following  sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

I   C-tomatoes  3^  t-sugar 

I  slice  onion  J/2   C-water 

4  bay  leaves  2  T-butter 

4  cloves  2  T-flour 

H  t-salt 

Simmer  the  tomatoes,  onion,  bay  leaves,  cloves,  sugar  and 
water  for  fifteen  minutes,  rub  through  the  strainer.  Melt  but- 
ter, add  flour  and  salt,  add  strained  tomato  juice  and  pulp. 
Cook  until  the  desired  consistency. 

Potatoes  Anna  (Four  portions) 

iH   C-cooked   diced   potatoes  ^  t-celery   salt 

2  hard-cooked  eggs  yi  t-onion  salt 

I   C-thin  white  sauce 

Place  alternate  layers  of  diced  cooked  potatoes  and  sliced 
hard-cooked  eggs  in  a  baking  dish.  Season.  Pour  a  thin  white 
sauce  over  all  of  this.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  min- 
utes. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (Four  portions) 
4  green  peppers      4  C-boiling  water 

Remove  the  stems  of  the  peppers  and  take  out  all  the  con- 
tents. Remove  small  slices  from  the  blossom  end  so  they  will 
stand.  Cover  peppers  with  boiling  water,  allow  to  stand  five 
minutes  and  drain.  Fill  with  any  desired  mixture.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes,  basting  frequently  with 
hot  water. 

Filling  for  Peppers  (Four  portions) 

I  C-fresh  bread  crumbs             ^  5^  t-salt 

I  t-chopped  onion  or  34  T-onion  salt  i  T-melted  butter 

1/3  C-chopped  ham,  or  i  T-salt  pork  l/g  t-paprika 

2  T-water 


20     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  thoroughly  and  fill  the  pepper  cases. 

Baked  Cottage  Pudding   (Four  portions) 

I  C-flour  1/3  C-sugar 
I  2/3  t-baking  powder  2  T-melted  butter 

)4.  t-salt  H   C-milk 
I  well-beaten  g:^q  %  t-vanilla  or  lemon  extract 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  and  milk.  Beat  well  and  add 
melted  butter  and  extract.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  well 
buttered  mould.    Serve  hot  with  the  following  sauce : 

Lemon  Sauce   (Four  portions) 

y2  C-sugar  I  t-butter 

ij^  1 -flour  I  t-lemon  extract  or  ^  t-lemon  juice 

I  C-hot  water     J^  t-salt 

Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Slowly  add  the  hot  water.  Cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.    Add  flavoring  and  butter. 


CHAPTER   IV 
BETTINA  GIVES  A  LUNCHEON 

^^f\  YOU  darling  Bettina !     Did  you  do  it  all  yourself?" 

^^  Mary  exclaimed  impulsively,  as  the  girls  admired  the 
dainty  first  course  which  their  hostess  set  before  them. 
"Everything  is  pink  and  white,  like  the  wedding !" 

"Yes,"  said  Bettina,  "and  those  maline  bows  on  the  basket 
of  roses  actually  attended  my  wedding.  And  after  this  is  over, 
you  may  see  that  maline  again.  I  expect  to  press  it  out  and 
put  it  away  for  other  pink  luncheons  in  other  Junes !  Today, 
since  my  guests  were  to  be  just  my  bridesmaids,  I  thought  that 
a  pink  luncheon  would  be  the  most  appropriate  kind." 

"Isn't  it  fine  to  be  in  Bettina's  own  house?  I  can't  realize 
it!'^  said  Ellen.  "And  the  idea  of  daring  to  cook  a  whole 
luncheon  and  serve  it  in  courses  all  by  herself !  Why,  Bettina, 
how  did  you  know  what  to  have  ?" 

"Well,"  said  Bettina,  "I  went  to  the  market  and  saw  all  the 
inexpensive  things  that  one  can  buy  in  June !  (They  had  to 
be  inexpensive !  Why,  if  I  were  to  tell  you  just  what  this 
luncheon  cost,  you'd  laugh.  But  I  want  you  to  like  it  all  before 
I  give  that  secret  away.)  And  then  in  planning  my  menu,  I 
thought  of  pinky  things  that  went  together.  That  was  all,  you 
see." 

"But  didn't  it  take  hours  and  hours  to  prepare  everything  ?" 

"Why,  no.  I  thought  it  all  out  first,  and  wrote  it  down,  and 
did  most  of  it  yesterday.  I've  found  that  five  minutes  of 
planning  is  worth  five  hours  of  unplanned  work.  I  haven't 
hurried,  and  as  Bob  will  have  this  same  meal  as  his  dinner 
tonight,  I  didn't  have  to  think  of  him  except  to  plan  for  more. 

21 


22     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

You  see,  I  estimated  each  portion  as  carefully  as  I  could,  for  it 
isn't  necessary  to  have  a  lot  of  left-over  things.  Tonight  I'll 
wear  this  same  pink  gown  at  dinner  so  that  Bob  will  get  every 
bit  that  he  can  of  my  first  luncheon  except  the  silly  girls  who 
flattered  the  cook." 

"Bettina,  there  are  so  many  things  I'd  like  to  ask  you !"  said 
Ruth,  who  was  a  little  conscious  of  the  shining  ring  on  her  left 
hand.  "Tell  me,  for  instance,  how  you  shaped  these  cunning 
timbales.     With  your  hands  ?" 

"With  a  conical  ice-cream  mould.     It  is  so  easy  that  way." 

"And  this  salad !  Fred  is  so  fond  of  salad,  but  I  don't  know 
a  thing  about  making  it." 

"Well,  I  washed  the  lettuce  thoroughly,  and  when  it  was 
very  wet  I  put  it  on  the  ice  in  a  cloth.  I  poured  boiling  water 
over  these  tomatoes  to  make  the  skins  peel  off  easily.  And, 
oh,  yes,  these  cucumbers  are  crisp  because  I  kept  the  slices  in 
ice  water  for  awhile  before  I  served  them.  Good  salad  is 
always  very  cold;  the  ingredients  ought  to  be  chilled  before 
they  are  mixed." 

"These  dear  little  cakes,  Bettina!  How  could  you  make 
them  in  such  cunning  shapes  ?" 

"With  a  fancy  cutter.  And  I  dipped  it  in  warm  water  each 
time  before  I  used  it,  so  that  it  would  cut  evenly.  I'd  love  to 
show  you  girls  all  that  I  know  about  cooking.  Do  learn  it  now 
while  you're  at  home ;  it  will  save  much  labor  and  even  tears ! 
Why,  Bob  said " 

"I  knew  that  was  coming!"  laughed  Alice.  "Girls,  in  self- 
defense,  let's  keep  the  conversation  strictly  on  Betty's  menu, 
and  away  from  Betty's  husband!" 

And  so  they  discussed : 


Strawberries  au  Naturel 

Kornlet  Soup  Whipped  Cream 

Croutons 

Salmon  Timbales  with  Egg  Sauce 

Buttered  Beets  Potato  Croquettes 

Pinwheel  Biscuit  Butter^  Balls 

Vegetable  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

Wafers 

Fancy  Cakes  Coffee 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  23 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Strawberries  au  Naturel   (Ten  portions) 

2  quarts  strawberries     i  C-powdered  sugar 

Pick  over  selected  berries,  place  in  a  colander  and  wash, 
draining  carefully.  Press  powdered  sugar  into  cordial  glasses 
to  shape  into  a  small  mould.  Remove  from  glasses  onto  cen- 
ters of  paper  doilies  placed  on  fruit  plates.  Attractively 
arrange  ten  berries  around  each  mound.  Berries  should  be 
kept  cool  and  not  hulled.  Natural  leaves  may  be  used  very 
effectively  on  the  doily. 

Croutons  for  the  Soup   (Ten  portions) 

4  slices  bread      2  T-butter  (melted) 
H  t-salt 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third  inch  cubes.  Brown  in  the  oven. 
Add  melted  butter  and  salt.     Mix  and  reheat  the  croutons. 

Salmon  Timbales  (Eight  portions) 

I  C-salmon  flaked  2/3  C-milk 

J4  C-bread  crumbs  i  T-lemon  juice 

I  slightly  beaten  egg  ^  t-paprika 

%  t-salt 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  named.     Fill  small  buttered  moulds 

or  cups  one-half  full.     Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake 

twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  with  following 

sauce : 

Egg  Sauce  (Eight  portions) 

3  T-butter     H  t-salt 
3  T-flour         %  t-pepper 
I  J?  C-milk  I  Ggg  yolk 

Melt  the  butter,  stir  flour  in  well,  and  slowly  add  the  milk. 
Let  it  boil  about  two  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Season,  add 
yolk  of  egg,  and  mix  well.  (The  oil  from  the  salmon  may  be 
substituted  for  melted  butter  as  far  as  it  will  go.) 

White   Cakes    (Sixteen   cakes) 

1/3  C-butter  3  t-baking  powder 

1  C-sugar  j4  t-lemon   extract 
2/3  C-milk  ^2  t-vanilla 

2  C-sifted  flour  3  egg  whiter 


24     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  and  continue  creaming.  Alter- 
nately add  the  dry  ingredients  mixed  and  sifted.  Add  the 
milk.  Beat  well,  add  flavoring.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Spread  evenly,  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick,  on  waxed 
paper,  placed  in  a  pan.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  moderate 
oven.  Remove  from  oven,  allow  cake  to  remain  in  pan  five 
minutes.    Carefully  remove  and  cool.     Cut  with  fancy  cutters. 

White  Mountain  Cream  Icing  for  Cakes 

I   C-granulated    sugar    %  C-water 

%  t-cream  tartar  i  tgg  white 

J/2  t-vanilla 

Boil  the  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  together  without 
stirring.  Remove  from  fire  as  soon  as  the  syrup  hairs  when 
dropped  from  a  spoon.  Pour  very  slowly  onto  the  stiffly  beaten 
^gg  white.  Beat  vigorously  with  sweeping  strokes  until  cool. 
If  icing  gets  too  hard  to  spread,  add  a  little  warm  water  and 
keep  beating.  Add  extract  and  spread  on  cakes.  Decorate 
with  tiny  pink  candies. 


CHAPTER   V 
BOB   HELPS  TO   GET   DINNER 

^^/^^  UESS  who !"  said  a  voice  behind  Bettina,  as  two  hands 

^J    blinded  her  eyes. 

"Why,  Bob,  dear !  Good  for  you !  How  did  you  get  home 
so  early?" 

"I  caught  a  ride  with  Dixon  in  his  new  car.  And  I  thought 
you  might  need  me  to  help  get  dinner ;  it's  nice  to  be  needed ! 
But  here  I've  been  picturing  you  toiling  over  a  hot  stove,  and, 
instead,  I  find  you  on  the  porch  with  a  magazine,  as  cool  as  a 
cucumber  !'* 

"The  day  of  toiling  over  a  hot  stove  in  summer  is  over.  At 
least  for  anyone  with  sense !  But  I'm  glad  you  did  come  home 
early,  and  you  can  help  with  dinner.  Will  you  make  the 
French  dressing  for  the  salad?  See,  I'll  measure  it  out,  and 
you  can  stir  it  this  way  with  a  fork  until  it's  well  mixed  and  a 
little  thick." 

"I  know  a  much  better  way  than  that.  Just  watch  your 
Uncle  Bob;  see?  I'll  put  it  in  this  little  Mason  jar  and  shake 
it.  It's  a  lot  easier  and — there  you  are!  We'll  use  what  we 
need  tonight,  put  the  jar  away  in  the  ice-box,  and  the  next 
time  we  can  give  it  another  good  shaking  before  we  use  it.'* 

"Why,  Bob,  what  an  ingenious  boy  you  are !  I  never  would 
have  thought  of  that !" 

*'^ou  married  a  man  with  brains,  Betty  dear!  What  is 
there  besides  the  salad  ?" 

"Halibut  steak.  It's  Friday,  you  know,  and  there  is  such 
good  inexpensive  fish  on  the  market.     A  pound  is  plenty  for 

25 


26    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

us.  The  potatoes  are  ready  for  the  white  sauce,  the  beans 
are  in  the  fireless  cooker,  and  for  dessert  there  is  fresh  pine- 
apple sliced.  The  pineapple  is  all  ready.  Will  you  get  it, 
dear?     In  the  ice-box  in  a  covered  jar." 

"Why  didn't  you  slice  it  into  the  serving  dish?" 

"Because  it  had  to  be  covered  tight.  Pineapple  has  a  pene- 
trating odor,  and  milk  and  butter  absorb  it  in  no  time." 

"What  else  shall  I  do,  Madam  Bettina?" 

"Well,  you  may  fix  the  lemon  for  the  fish.  No,  not  sliced ; 
a  slice  is  too  hard  to  handle.  Just  cut  it  in  halves  and  then 
once  the  other  way,  in  quarters ;  see  ?  You  may  also  cut  up 
a  little  of  that  parsley  for  the  creamed  new  potatoes.  That 
reminds  me  that  I  am  going  to  have  parsley  growing  in  a 
kitchen  window  box  some  day.  Now  you  can  take  the  beans 
out  of  the  cooker,  and  I'll  put  butter  sauce  on  them.  No,  it 
isn't  really  a  sauce, — just  melted  butter  with  salt  and  pepper. 
There,  Bobby  dear!  Dinner  is  served,  and  you  helped!  How 
do  you  like  the  coreopsis  on  the  table  ?" 

"You  always  manage  to  have  flowers  of  some  kind,  don't 
you,  Betty  ?  I'm  growing  so  accustomed  to  that  little  habit  of 
yours  that  I  suppose  I  wouldn't  have  any  appetite  if  I  had  to 
eat  on  an  ordinary  undecorated  table !" 

"Don't  you  make  fun  of  me,  old  fellow !  You'd  have  an 
appetite  no  matter  when,  how  or  what  you  had  to  eat!  But 
things  are  good  tonight,  aren't  they?" 

Bob  had  helped  to  prepare : 

Halibut  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

String   Beans  Butter    Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Tomato,  Cucumber  and  Pimento  Salad  French  Dressing 

Sliced  Fresh  Pineapple 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements   are   level) 

Halibut    Steak  (Two  portions)  ' 

2/3  lb.   Halibut  Steak   J^  t-salt 
3  T-flour  54  t-paprika 

Wash  one  pound  of  Halibut  steak  and  wipe  dry.  Cut  in 
two  pieces.    Roll  in  flour,  and  cook  ten  minutes  in  a  frying  pan 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  27 

in  hot  fat.    Brown  on  one  side,  and  then  on  the  other.    Season 
with  salt  and  paprika.     Serve  very  hot. 

String  Beans  with  Butter  Sauce  (Two  portions) 

ij4  C-string   beans     i  T-butter 

2  C-water  i  t-salt 

54  t-paprika 

Remove  ends  and  strings  from  green  beans.  Add  water  and 
cook  over  a  moderate  fire  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  off 
the  water,  add  butter,  salt  and  paprika.     Reheat  and  serve. 

Tomato,  Cucumber  and  Pimento  Salad  (Two  portions) 

I  tomato  sliced  i  t-salt 

y2   C-sliced   cucumbers        %  t-paprika 
I  T-pimento  cut  fine  2  pieces  lettuce 

Arrange  lettuce  on  serving  dishes.  Place  portions  of  tomato, 
cucumber  and  pimento  on  the  lettuce.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
paprika.     Serve  with  French  dressing. 

French  Dressing  (Two  portions) 

4  T-olive  oil     H  t-salt 
2  T-vinegar      %.  t-paprika 

Mix  ingredients,  which  have  been  thoroughly  chilled,  and 
beat  until  the  mixture  thickens.     Pour  over  the  vegetables. 

Pineapple    Sliced   (Two  portions) 

I  pineapple  K  C-sugar 

Remove  the  skin  and  eyes  from  the  pineapple.  Cut  cross- 
wise in  half-inch  slices,  and  the  slices  in  cubes,  at  the  same  time 
discarding  the  core.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  stand  in  a  cold 
place  for  an  hour  before  serving. 


CHAPTER   VI 

COUSIN    MATILDA    CALLS 

i^TTELLO,  is  this  you,  Bettina?  This  is  Mother!  I'll 
-■'  -^  have  to  speak  in  a  low  voice.  Who  do  you  think  is 
here?  No, — Cousin  Matilda!  Just  between  trains,  but  she 
says  she  must  see  how  you  are  'situated' !  Clementine  has 
such  a  wonderful  establishment  now,  you  know !  No,  of 
course  not,  but  I  want  her  to  see  how  happy  you  are.  She 
seems  to  have  the  idea  that  an  'establishment'  is  necessary ! 
Just  to  see  the  house,  you  know!  I  know  the  porch  isn't 
ready,  but  don't  worry !     About  three,  then.     Good-by !" 

That  afternoon  Bettina  looked  anxiously  through  the  living 
room  window  across  the  bare  little  front  yard.  If  only  critical 
Cousin  Matilda  had  waited  a  few  months  before  coming !  But 
then,  the  only  thing  to  do  was  to  be  as  cheerful  about  it  as 
possible 

"So  this  is  little  Bettina!"  said  a  majestic  voice  at  the  door. 
"And  how  is  love  in  a  cottage?  How  charmingly  simple 
everything  is !" 

"They  planned  it  all  just  as  they  wanted  it,"  explained 
Bettina's  mother  proudly.  "On  a  small  scale,  of  course,  but 
perhaps  some  day " 

"But  I  couldn't  ever  be  happier  than  I  am  right  now.  Cousin 
Matilda.  What  do  you  think  of  our  big  living  room?  Browns 
and  tans  seemed  best  and  safest  in  a  little  house  like  this,  and 
I  knew  I  shouldn't  tire  of  them  as  of  any  other  color !  I  do 
so  dislike  going  into  a  bungalow  with  one  little  room  in  blue, 
another  in  pink,  and  so  on.    The  walls  are  all  alike,  even  in 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  29 

the  bedrooms.  And  the  curtains  are  just  simple  cotton  voiles, 
ecru  in  the  living  and  dining  rooms,  and  white  in  the  bed- 
rooms. No  side  curtains  to  catch  the  dust  and  keep  out  the 
air.  But  I  beg  your  pardon  for  seeming  too  complacent;  I 
love  it  all  so  that  I  just  can't  help  boasting." 

"What  is  this,  my  dear  ?     A  wedding  gift  ?" 

"Yes,  isn't  it  lovely?  It  is  a  sampler  in  cross-stitch  that 
Bob's  great-great-grandmother  made  !  His  Aunt  Margaret  had 
it  put  under  the  glass  cover  of  this  tea  cart,  and  gave  it  to  us 
for  a  wedding  present.  See,  the  cart  is  brown  willow,  and  I 
think  it  looks  well  with  our  furniture,  don't  you?  This  is  to 
be  a  living  porch,  but  we  haven't  furnished  it  yet  except  for 
this  green  matting  rug.  And  Bob  brought  that  hanging  basket 
home  from  the  florist's  the  other  day.  .  .  .  Oh,  yes,  this  is  my 
Japanese  garden !  Bob  laughs  at  me,  I  have  so  much  fun 
watching  it." 

"What  a  lovely  table  decoration  those  red  cherries  make  in 
your  dining  room,  my  dear!  Like  a  picture,  in  that  piece  of 
dull  green  pottery !" 

"Yes,  Bob  says  I  decorate  the  table  differently  for  every 
meal !  We  use  this  breakfast  alcove  for  breakfast,  Sunday 
evening  tea,  or  any  informal  meal  when  we  are  alone.  You 
see  how  convenient  it  is !  I  do  want  to  put  a  round  serving 
table  with  leaves  on  our  living  porch.  Then  we  can  eat  there 
on  warm  evenings  in  summer." 

"Bettina  is  very  accomplished  in  economy,"  said  her  mother. 
^You  must  let  her  tell  you  some  of  her  methods." 

"Clementine  would  be  interested,  I'm  sure,"  said  Cousin 
Matilda  in  her  languid  way.     "Is  this  your  guest  room  ?'* 

"Yes,  and  Bob  and  I  are  proud  of  that.  We  white  enameled 
the  furniture  ourselves !  It  is  some  that  we  found  in  a  second- 
hand store,  and  it  was  certainly  a  bargain,  though  it  didn't 
look  it  at  the  time.  I  sewed  the  rags  together  for  these  blue 
and  white  rugs.  Bob  made  that  little  open  desk  out  of  a  small 
table  that  we  found  somewhere.  Now  that  it  is  white,  too,  I 
think  it  is  cunning.  And,  Cousin  Matilda,  I  give  you  three 
guesses  as  to  the  place  in  which  I  keep  my  sewing  machine !" 

"Why,  I  haven't  seen  it  vet.     In  the  kitchen  ?" 


30     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Goodness,  no  !  Well,  I'll  tell  you !  This  looks  like  a  dress  - 
ing  table,  but  is  merely  a  shelf  with  a  mirror  above  it.  Th<j 
shelf  has  a  cretonne  cover  and  'petticoat'  that  reaches  the  floor. 
And  underneath  it — behold  the  sewing  machine!  Bob  mad-i 
the  shelf  high  enough  and  wide  enough  to  let  the  sewing; 
machine  slip  under  it !  But,  Cousin  Matilda,  you  must  be  tired 
of  Bettina's  economies!  Please  sit  down  with  mother  in  the 
living  room  and  I  will  get  the  'party.'  " 

And  Bettina  wheeled  her  tea  cart  into  the  kitchen,  returning 
with  luncheon  napkins,  plates,  glasses,  a  pitcher  of  iced  fruit 
juice,  a  plate  of  little  chocolate  cakes,  and  several  sprays  of 
wild  roses. 

"What  delicious  little  cakes,  Bettina !  At  least  you  can't  be 
called  economical  when  you  serve  such  rich  and  dainty  food  as 
this !" 

"I  must  plead  guilty  still.  Cousin  Matilda.  I  made  these 
little  cakes  partly  from  dry  bread  crumbs.  The  fruit  juice  is 
mostly  from  the  pineapple  which  Bob  had  for  dessert  last  night. 
I  cooked  the  core  with  about  two  cups  of  water  and  added  it 
to  the  lemonade." 

"Bettina,  Bettina !  How  did  you  learn  these  things  ?  Rob- 
ert is  certainly  a  lucky  man,  and  I'm  sure  that  some  day  he 
will  be  a  wealthy  one!  You  must  give  me  the  recipes  you 
used !" 

And  Bettina  wrote  them  down  as  follows : 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Little  Chocolate  Cakes  (Twelve  cakes) 

2  eggs  I  C-dry  bread  crumbs 

H  C-butter     3  T-flour 
Yz  C-sugar      I  t-vanilla 

3  squares  chocolate 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  and  cream  the  mixture.  Add 
the  beaten  eggs  and  stir  well.  Add  melted  chocolate,  bread 
crumbs,  flour  and  flavoring.  Spread  the  mixture  very  thinly 
on  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
Shape  with  a  tiny  biscuit  cutter,  and  put  together  in  pairs  with 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  31 

mountain  cream  icing  between  and  on  top.     (Icing  recipe  al- 
ready given.) 

Fruit  Juice  (Eight  glasses) 

I  C-sugar      2  C-water 
V/2  C-Iemon  juice 

Boil  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes  without  stirring,  add  lemon 
juice,  and  any  other  fruit  juices.  Cool  and  bottle.  Keep  on 
ice  and  dilute  with  ice  water  when  desired  £or  use.  Serve 
mint  leaves  with  the  fruit  juice. 


JULY. 


The  market  is  full  of  delights  in  July: 

Fresh  vegetables^  berries^  red  cherries  for  pie! 

Good  housewives  and  telephones  seldom  agree. 
So  market  yourself!    You  can  buy  as  you  see! 


CHAPTER   VII 
A  NEW-FASHIONED   SUNDAY   DINNER 


^^VT^  OU  will  go  to  church  with 

-■■  us  this  morning,  Bet« 
tina?"  asked  Bob's  cousin  Henry, 
known  also  as  the  Rev.  Henry 
Clinkersmith,  as  he  came  into 
Bettina's  immaculate  kitchen  oni 
Sunday. 

"Yes,  indeed,  I  will  go!"  Bet- 
tina  answered  him.    "Is  it  nearly 
ten  o'clock  ?    Oh,  yes,  nine  forty- 
five.      I'll   go   at   once   and  get 
ready." 

Cousin  Henry  had  arrived  late  Saturday  evening.  He  was 
filling  the  pulpit  of  a  friend  that  Sunday  morning. 

Bettina  finished  arranging  the  low  bowl  of  pansies  which 
was  to  be  her  table  decoration.  "For  the  dinner  table,"  she 
explained  to  Cousin  Henry. 

"And  Bob,"  she  said  as  they  walked  to  church  (Cousin 
Henry  was  ahead  with  an  old  friend),  "I  do  believe  he  was 
worried  about  dinner.  There  wasn't  a  trace  of  any  prepara- 
tion to  be  seen!  You  know  I  made  the  cake  and  the  salad 
dressing  yesterday,  and  the  lettuce  was  on  the  ice.  The  sher- 
bet was  on  the  porch  (I  bought  it,  you  know),  and  the  lamb 
and  potatoes  were  in  the  cooker." 

"Well,  let  him  worry !  How  long  will  it  take  to  get  it  ready 
after  we  get  home  ?" 

33 


34     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"About  fifteen  minutes.  The  table  is  set,  but  Til  have  to 
warm  the  plates  and  take  things  up.  Then  there's  the  gravy 
to  make,  of  course." 

"All  I  can  say  is  this,"  said  Cousin  Henry  at  dinner,  as  he 
passed  his  plate  for  a  second  helping,  "since  you've  explained 
the  mysteries  of  the  fireless  cooker,  I  realize  how  it  would 
have  helped  those  cold  Sunday  dinners  of  the  past  generation. 
The  women  could  have  obeyed  the  fourth  commandment  and 
given  their  families  a  good  Sunday  dinner,  too !" 

That  day  they  had : 

Leg  of  Lamb  with   Potatoes  Lamb   Gravy 

Head  Lettuce  Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Mint  Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Pineapple   Sherbet  Bettina's   Loaf   Cake 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Roast  Leg  of   Lamb  with  Potatoes    (Ten   portions) 

A  4-lb.  leg  of  lamb        %  t-paprika 
6  large  potatoes  i  T-salt 

2  T-lard 

Wash  the  lamb  with  a  damp  cloth.  Wipe  dry  and  sprinkle 
with  two  teaspoons  of  salt.  Place  the  lard  in  a  frying-pan. 
When  hot,  add  the  lamb,  and  brown  well  on  all  sides.  Place 
the  meat  in  the  fireless  utensil.  Sprinkle  the  potatoes  with 
salt  and  paprika.  Arrange  these  about  the  leg  of  lamb.  Place 
the  disks,  heated  for  baking,  over  and  under  the  baking  pan. 
Cook  three  hours  in  the  fireless.     Use  the  drippings  for  gravy. 

Lamb    Gravy    (Four  portions) 

4  T-drippings         2  T-flour 
2/3  C-water  }^  t-salt 

Place  half  of  the  drippings  in  a  sauce-pan.  Add  the  flour, 
and  allow  it  to  brown.  Add  slowly  the  water,  salt  and  the 
rest  of  the  drippings  (two  tablespoonsful).     Boil  one  minute. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  35 

Mint   Sauce    (Four   portions) 

%  C-mint  leaves         4  T-vinegar 

j/2  C-boiling  water   14,  t-paprika 
2  T-sugar  %  t-salt 

Chop  the  mint  leaves  very  fine.  Add  the  boiling  water  and 
sugar.  Cover  closely  and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Add  the 
vinegar,  pepper  and  salt. 

Loaf    Cake    (Bettina's    Nut    Special)    (Twelve    pieces) 

1/3  C-butter  3  t-baking  powder 

I  C-"C"  sugar  J4  C-nut-meats,  cut  fine 

I  egg  %  t-salt 

VA  C-flour  2/3  C-milk 

l4  t-cinnamon  i  t-vanilla 

J/2  t-lemon  extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  the  egg.  Mix  well. 
Add  the  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon,  nut-meats,  salt,  milk, 
vanilla  and  lemon  extract.  Beat  two  minutes.  Pour  into  a 
loaf -cake  pan  prepared  with  waxed  paper.  Bake  thirty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER   Vin 
CELEBRATING  THE  FOURTH 

i^'VTOW,  boys,  run  and  play  while  Alice  and  I  set  the  picnic 

^^  table !"  said  Bettina  to  Bob  and  Mr.  Harrison.  "See 
if  the  fish  are  biting !  Cultivate  your  patience  as  well  as  your 
appetites  and  we'll  surprise  you  soon !" 

"Bettina,  let  me  help  you  unpack.  Everything  looks  so 
dainty  and  interesting!''  said  Alice,  as  Bob  and  Mr.  Harrison 
strolled  off  toward  the  river.  "You  ought  to  have  allowed  me 
to  bring  something,  although  I'll  admit  that  I  do  enjoy  being 
surprised.     You  were  a  dear  to  bring  me  with  you!" 

"I  ?"  said  Bettina.  "Of  course  I'm  glad  to  have  you  here — 
no  one  is  better  fun — but  I  wish  you  had  heard  something  that 
Bob  told  me.  He  and  Harry  Harrison  were  planning  to  go 
fishing  today,  all  by  themselves,  until  Harry  suggested  that 
Bob  might  like  to  bring  me  along.  And  then  he  added  as  an 
afterthought,  that  as  three  is  a  crowd.  Miss  Alice  might  be 
induced  to  come  too.  (Why  is  it  that  'Miss  Alice'  or  'Miss 
Kate'  or  'Miss  May'  always  sounds  so  like  a  confirmed  bache- 
lor?) Bob  chuckled  when  he  told  me  how  careless  and  offhand 
Harry  tried  to  be !" 

"Betty,  how  pretty  those  pasteboard  plates  are  with  the  flag- 
seals  pasted  on  them !" 

"I  saw  some  ready-made  Fourth  of  July  plates,  but  it  was 
more  economical  to  make  my  own.  And  how  do  you  like  the 
red,  white  and  blue  paper  napkins  and  lunch  cloth?  'Lunch 
paper,'  I  ought  to  say,  I  suppose.  Alice,  you  arrange  the  fruit 
in  the  center  in  this  basket,  with  some  napkins  around  it,  and 

36 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  37 

with  these  little  flags  sticking  out  of  it  in  every  direction.  But 
first,  my  dear,  please  tell  me  why  you  changed  the  subject 
when  I  was  speaking  of  Mr.  Harrison?" 

"Those  devilled  eggs  wrapped  in  frilled  tissue-paper  look 
just  like  torpedoes." 

''Alice,  Alice,  I  learned  something  new  about  you  today. 
Harry  said  that  society  girls  got  on  his  nerves,  but  that  'Miss 
Alice'  seemed  sensible  enough!" 

"Goodness,  Betty,  he  has  disagreed  with  every  single  thing 
I've  said,  so  far!  If  he  is  being  pleasant  behind  my  back,  I 
don't  see  why  he  should  be  so  disapproving  in  his  manner  to 
me !  But  if  he  is  really  beginning  to  think  me  sensible,  let  us 
by  all  means  encourage  him!  Hide  my  frivolous  new  hat  in 
the  lunch-basket,  and  give  me  something  useful  to  be  doing. 
Can't  I  appear  to  be  mixing  the  salad  ?  .  .  .  Honestly,  Betty, 
I  do  get  tired  of  society  as  a  single  interest.  But  what  else  is 
there  for  me  to  do?  Go  into  settlement  work?  I'd  be  a  joke 
at  that!     Learn  to  design  jewelry?     Take  singing  lessons?" 

"Try  the  good  old  profession  of  matrimony.  Why  are  you 
so  fickle,  Alice,  my  dear?" 

"I'm  not ;  it's  the  men !  Every  sensible  one  I  meet  is — well, 
disagreeable  to  me !" 

"Meaning  Harry  Harrison?  He  appears  to  be  taking  quite 
an  interest,  at  least !" 

"That  is  merely  his  reforming  instinct  coming  to  the  surface. 
But — is  everything  ready  now?  We'll  sing  a  few  bars  of  the 
Star  Spangled  Banner,  and  I'm  sure  the  men  will  come  imme- 
diately !" 

The  lunch  table  was  set  with: 


Lobster  and  Salmon  Salad 

Ham  Sandwiches  Nut   Bread    Sandwiches 

Pickles  Radishes 

Potato  Chips  Devilled  Eggs 

Moist  Chocolate  Cake 

Bananas  Oranges 

Torpedo  Candies 

lemonade 


38     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are   level) 

Lobster  and  Salmon  Salad   (Four  portions) 

I  C-salmon  6  sweet  pickles  cut  fine 

J^  C-lobster  3  hard-cooked  eggs,  sliced 

I  C-diced  cucumber  or  celery  i  t-salt 
^  C-salad   dressing 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Use  a  silver  fork 
for  mixing.     Garnish  with  lettuce  leaves. 

Ham  Sandwiches   (Four  portions) 

Yz  C-chopped  ham      i  T-chopped  olives 

2  T-pickles  3  T-salad  dressing 

12  slices  bread 

Mix  ham,  olives  and  pickles  with  salad  dressing  and  spread 
on  lettuce  or  nasturtium  leaves  between  buttered  slices  of  bread. 
Trim  off  the  crusts,  and  cut  the  sandwiches  in  fancy  shapes. 

Devilled  Eggs    (Six  eggs) 

6  hard-cooked    eggs       i  t-melted  butter 
I  t-vinegar  ^  t-chopped  parsley 

%  t-mustard  ^  t-salt 

Shell  the  eggs,  cut  lengthwise  in  half,  remove  yolks,  mash 
them  and  add  vinegar,  mustard,  melted  butter,  parsley  and  salt. 
Refill  the  whites  and  put  pairs  together.  Wrap  in  tissue  paper 
with  frilled  edges  to  represent  torpedoes. 

Moist  Chocolate  Cake  (Ten  portions) 

x/3  C-butter  i  C-flour 

1  C-sugar  i^  t-baking  powder 

2  eggs  J^  t-cinnamon 
Yz  C-hot  mashed  potatoes      54  t-clove 

I  ounce  melted  chocolate      H  t-nutmeg 
54  C-milk  I  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar.  Mix  well.  Add  the  egg 
yolks,  slightly  beaten,  and  the  potato.  Stir,  add  the  chocolate, 
milk  and  then  all  the  dry  ingredients  which  have  been  mixed 
and  sifted  together.  Fold  in  the  white  of  the  eggs  oeaten 
stiffly.  Add  the  vanilla.  Pour  into  two  layer-cake  pans  which 
have  been  prepared  with  waxed  paper.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  thirty  minutes.    Ice  with  white  mountain  cream  icing. 


CHAPTER    IX 
UNCLE  JOHN  AND  AUNT  LUCY  MAKE  A  VISIT 

UNCLE   JOHN   and   Aunt   Lucy   had   driven   Bob    and 
Bettina  home  from  a  Sunday  spent  in  the  country. 

"Do  come  in,"  begged  Bettina,  "and  have  a  Httle  lunch  with 
"US.  After  such  a  bountiful  dinner,  we  really  ought  not  to  be 
hungry,  but  I  confess  that  the  lovely  drive  home  has  given  me 
an  appetite.  And  you've  never  been  here  for  a  meal !  Don't 
be  frightened.  Uncle  John,  I  really  thought  of  this  yesterday, 
and  my  cupboard  isn't  entirely  bare.  It  would  be  so  much 
fun  to  show  you  our  things  and  the  house !" 

"I'm  not  afraid  I  won't  be  fed  well,"  said  Uncle  John,  "but 
those  clouds  are  black  in  the  east.  If  it  should  rain  we'd  have 
trouble  getting  home.  Besides,  I  don't  like  to  have  the  car 
standing  out  in  a  storm." 

"I  don't  believe  it'll  rain,  John,"  said  comfortable  Aunt  Lucy. 
""And  if  it  does,  well,  we'll  manage  somehow.  I,  for  one, 
would  like  to  see  Bettina's  kitchen — and  all  the  rest  of  her 
house,"  she  added. 

Bettina  arranged  the  dainty  little  meal  on  the  porch  table, 
and  Aunt  Lucy  and  Uncle  John  sat  down  with  good  appetites. 

"This  looks  almost  too  pretty  to  eat,"  said  he  as  he  looked 
at  his  plate  with  its  slice  of  jellied  beef  on  head  lettuce,  served 
with  salad  dressing,  and  its  fresh  crisp  potato  chips.  And  the 
nasturtium  and  green  leaf  lay  beside  them. 

"Have  a  radish  and  a  sandwich,  Uncle  John,"  said  Bettina. 
"We  have  plenty,  if  not  variety.  Our  only  dessert  is  fresh 
pears." 

"But  it  all  tastes  mighty  good !"  said  Uncle  John.  "Say,  Bob, 
it  is  beginning  to  rain,  I  believe !" 

39 


40     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Sure  enough,  a  regular  storm!  We  must  put  the  car  in 
the  empty  garage  across  the  street.  I'm  sure  we  can  get  per- 
mission."    And  he  and  Uncle  John  hurried  out. 

"It  will  blow  over,  I'm  sure,"  said  Aunt  Lucy. 

"But  if  it  doesn't — why.  Aunt  Lucy,  stay  here  all  night! 
We'd  love  to  have  you !  The  guest  room  is  always  ready.  I 
know  you'll  be  comfortable,  and  they  can  manage  without  you 
at  home  for  once,  I'm  sure." 

"Of  course  they'll  be  all  right,  and  it  would  be  quite  exciting 
to  be  'company'  for  a  change.  If  only  Uncle  John  thinks  he 
can  do  it !" 

"It  looks  as  if  there'll  be  nothing  else  to  do,"  said  Uncle 
John,  when  he  and  Bob  returned.  "Not  but  what  I'd  enjoy 
it — but  I  haven't  been  away  from  home  a  night  for — how  long 
is  it,  Lucy  ?" 

"Seven  years  last  May,  John.  All  the  more  reason  why 
this'll  do  you  good." 

"Oh,  I'm  so  glad  you'll  really  stay  1"  said  Bettina.  "Now 
tell  me  what  you  like  for  breakfast!" 

"Anything  you  have  except  those  new  fashioned  breakfast 
foods,"  Uncle  John  replied.  "I  might  feed  'em  to  my  stock, 
now,  but  not  to  a  human  being.  But  don't  you  worry  about 
me,  Betty !  Because  I  don't  worry  about  the  breakfast  propo- 
sition. Bob  here  is  a  pretty  good  advertisement  of  the  kind  of 
cooking  you  can  do !" 

The  lunch  that  night  consisted  of : 

Jellied  Beef  Potato  Chips 

Radishes 

Peanut  Butter  Sandwiches 

Iced  Tea  Fresh  Pears 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 
Jellied  Beef  (Four  portions) 

1  C-cold  choppea  cooked  beef      i  T-chopped  parsley 

Yy  T-chopped  onion  I  T-lemon    juice 

I  T-chopped   pimento  2  t-granulated  gelatin 

i^  t-salt  I  T-cold    water 

34  t-pepper  }^  C-boiling    water 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  41 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  one  tablespoon  cold  water  for  three  min- 
utes. Add  the  boiling  water  and  dissolve  thoroughly.  Add 
the  meat,  onion,  pimento,  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice  and  pars- 
ley. Stir  well  together  and  turn  into  a  mould  that  has  been 
moistened  with  cold  water.  (A  square  or  rectangular  mould 
is  preferable.)  Stand  in  a  cold  place  for  tv;o  hours.  When 
cold  and  firm,  unmould  on  lettuce  leaves  and  cut  into  slices. 
Salad  dressing  may  be  served  with  it. 

Radishes  (Four  portions) 

12  radishes  i  C-chopped  ice 

Wash  the  radishes  thoroughly  with  a  vegetable  brush.  Cut 
off  the  long  roots  and  all  but  one  inch  of  green  tops.  These 
tops  make  the  radishes  easier  to  handle  and  more  attractive. 
Serve  in  a  bowl  of  chopped  ice. 

Peanut  Butter  Sandwiches   (Twelve  sandwiches) 

4  T-peanut  butter  i  T-salad    dressing 

J^  t-salt  12  slices  of  bread 

I  t-butter  12  uniform  pieces   of  lettuce 

Cream  the  peanut  butter,  add  the  butter.  Cream  again,  add 
the  salt  and  salad  dressing,  mixing  well.  Cut  the  bread  evenly. 
Butter  one  side  of  the  bread  very  thinly  with  the  peanut 
butter  mixture.  Place  the  lettuce  leaf  on  one  slice  and  place 
another  slice  upon  it,  buttered  side  down.  Press  firmly  and 
neatly  together.  Cut  in  two  crosswise.  Arrange  attractively 
in  a  wicker  basket. 


CHAPTER   X 
RUTH  INSPECTS  BETTINA'S  KITCHEN 

til\  TAY  I  come  in?"  said  a  voice  at  the  screen  door.    "I 

■^^^  came  the  kitchen  way  because  I  hoped  that  you  would 
still  be  busy  with  the  morning's  work,  and  I  might  learn  some- 
thing. You  see"  (and  Ruth  blushed  a  little),  "we  are  thinking 
of  building  a  house  and  we  have  lots  of  ideas  about  every  room 
but  the  kitchen.  Neither  Fred  nor  I  know  the  first  thing  about 
that,  so  I  told  him  that  I  would  just  have  to  consult  you." 

"How  dear  of  you,  Ruth !"  said  Bettina,  as  she  put  away  the 
breakfast  dishes.  "Well,  you  shall  have  the  benefit  of  every- 
thing that  I  know.  Bob  and  I  began  with  the  kitchen  when  we 
planned  this  little  house.  It  seemed  so  important.  I  expected 
to  spend  a  great  deal  of  time  here,  and  I  was  determined  to 
have  it  cheerful  and  convenient.  I  never  could  see  why  a 
kitchen  should  not  be  a  perfectly  beautiful  room,  as  beautiful 
as  any  in  the  whole  house !" 

"Yours  is,  Bettina,"  said  Ruth,  warmly,  as  she  looked 
around  her,  "No  wonder  you  can  cook  such  fascinating  little 
meals.  It  is  light,  and  sunny  and  clean  looking — oh,  immacu- 
late ! — and  has  such  a  pleasant  view !" 

"I  wanted  it  to  have  lots  of  sunshine.  We  had  the  walls 
painted  this  shade  of  yellow,  because  it  seemed  pretty  and 
cheerful.  Perhaps  you  won't  care  to  have  white  woodwork 
like  this,  but  you  see  it  is  plain  and  I  don't  find  it  hard  to  keep 
clean  out  here  on  the  edge  of  town!  I  think  it  is  so  pretty 
that  I  don't  expect  to  regret  my  choice.  Another  thing,  Ruth, 
do  get  a  good  grade  of  inlaid  linoleum  like  this.  I  know  the 
initial  expense  is  greater,  but  a  good  piece  will  last  a  long  time, 
and  will  always  look  well." 

42 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  43 

"How  high  the  sink  is,  Bettina !" 

"Thirty-six  inches.  You  see,  I'm  not  very  tall  and  yet  I 
have  always  found  that  every  other  sink  I  tried  was  too  low 
for  solid  comfort.  The  plumbers  have  a  way  of  making  them 
all  alike — thirty-two  inches  from  the  floor,  I  think.  They 
were  scandalized  because  I  asked  them  to  change  the  regula- 
tion height,  and  yet,  I  find  this  exactly  right.  And  isn't  it  a 
lovely  white  enameled  one  ?  I  am  happy  whenever  I  look  at  it ! 
Don't  laugh,  Ruth ;  a  sink  is  a  very  important  piece  of  furni- 
ture !  I  had  always  liked  this  kind  with  the  grooved  drain- 
board  on  each  side,  sloping  just  a  little  toward  the  center.  And 
see  how  easily  I  can  reach  up  and  put  away  the  dishes  in  the 
cupboard,  you  see.  I  don't  like  a  single  dish  or  utensil  in  sight 
when  the  kitchen  is  in  order.  This  roll  of  paper  toweling  here 
by  the  sink  is  very  convenient  for  wiping  off  the  table  or  tak- 
ing grease  off  pans  and  dishes  or  even  for  drying  glass  and 
silver.  A  roll  lasts  a  long  time,  and  certainly  does  save  dish- 
cloths and  towels. 

"Do  you  use  your  fireless  cooker  often  ?" 

"Every  day  of  the  year — I  do  believe.  I  cook  breakfast 
food  in  it,  and  all  kinds  of  meats  except  those  that  are  boiled 
or  fried.  Then  it  is  splendid  for  steaming  brown  bread  and 
baking  beans,  and  oh,  so  many  other  things!  Mother  keeps 
hers  under  the  kitchen  table,  but  I  find  it  more  convenient  here 
at  the  right  of  the  stove — on  a  box  just  level  with  the  stove. 
Next,  O  Neophyte,  you  may  observe  the  stove.  The  oven  is 
at  the  side,  high  up  so  that  one  need  not  stoop  to  use  it.  It  has 
a  glass  oven  door  through  which  I  can  watch  my  baking." 

"I  like  this  white  enameled  table.  And  the  high  stool  must 
be  convenient,  too." 

"It  is  splendid.  Ruth,  haven't  you  an  old  marble  topped 
table  at  home?    It  would  be  just  the  thing  for  pastry  making." 

"Yes,  I  do  know  of  one,  I  think,  and  I'll  have  the  lower  part 
enameled  white." 

"Fred  can  do  it  himself.  Let  him  help  to  fix  things  up,  and 
he'll  be  all  the  more  interested  in  them,  and  in  helping  you  use 
them." 

"Bettina,  this  is  an  adorable  breakfast  alcove!     What  fun 


44     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

you  must  have  every  morning!  If  we  have  one,  I  don't  believe 
we'll  ever  use  the  dining  room.  How  convenient !  Here  come 
the  waffles — hot  from  the  stove !    Fred,  do  have  a  hot  muffin !" 

"Not  at  the  same  meal,  Ruth !" 

"No,  he'll  be  fortunate  if  he  gets  anything  to  eat  at  all!  He 
isn't  marrying  a  Bettina.  But  he  says  he's  satisfied.  Bettina, 
does  Bob  help  get  breakfast?" 

"Indeed  he  does.  He  loves  to  make  coffee  in  the  electric 
percolator  and  toast  on  the  toaster.  He  says  that  an  electric 
toaster  and  plenty  of  bath  towels  are  the  real  necessities  of 
life,  but  I  say  I  cannot  live  without  flowers  and  a  fireplace. 
Oh,  you  will  have  such  fun,  Ruth !  Let  Fred  help  you  all  he 
will." 

"I'm  hearing  all  this  advice!"  suddenly  shouted  a  big  voice 
in  her  ear.  "Look  here,  Mrs.  Bettina,  does  Bob  know  that 
you  are  advising  your  friends  to  train  their  husbands  just  as 
you  are  training  him?" 

"Fred,  you  old  eavesdropper!  I  hope  that  Ruth  makes  you 
get  breakfast  every  single  morning  to  pay  for  this!  Aren't 
you  ashamed?  Don't  you  know  that  listeners  never  hear  any 
good  of  themselves?" 

"I  suppose  Fred  knew  he  needn't  worry,"  said  rosy  Ruth,  as 
she  took  his  arm.  "Look,  Fred,  isn't  it  a  dear  little  house? 
May  he  see  it  all,  Bettina?" 

"Yes,  if  he'll  explain  how  a  busy  man  can  get  away  at  this 
hour  of  the  morning." 

"Well,  you  see  I  was  on  my  way  to  the  office  when  I  caught 
a  glimpse  of  Ruth's  pink  dress  at  your  back  door.  I  hap- 
pened  to  think  that  she  said  she  didn't  get  a  recipe  for  those 
"skyrocket  rolls"  that  you  had  at  your  party  the  other  day.  I 
just  thought  I'd  have  to  remind  her,  for  the  sake  of  my  future.** 

"What  under  the  shining  sun !    Oh,  pinwheel  biscuits !" 

"Yes,— that's  it!" 

"Why — all  right.  I  have  it  filed  away  in  my  card-index. 
Here — with  a  picture  of  them  pasted  on  the  card.  I  cut  it 
out  of  the  magazine  that  gave  the  recipe.    They  are  delicious." 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  45 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Pinwheel  Biscuits  (Fifteen  biscuits)  v 

2  C-flour  %  C-milk 

4  t-baking  powder  1/3  C-stoned  raisins 

3  T-lard  2  T-sugar 

^  t-salt  2  T-melted  butter 

^  t-cinnamon 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt,  work  in  the 
lard  with  a  knife,  add  gradually  the  milk,  mixing  with  the 
knife  to  a  soft  dough.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  roll  one  inch 
thick,  spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  the  sugar  and 
cinnamon,  which  have  been  well  mixed.  Press  in  the  raisins. 
Roll  up  the  mixture  evenly  as  you  would  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  off 
slices,  an  inch  thick — flatten  a  little  and  place  in  a  tin  pan. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  (These  are  similar  to 
the  cinnamon  rolls  made  from  yeast  sponge.) 


CHAPTER   XI 

BETTINA'S  BIRTHDAY  GIFT 

^^'VT'OUR  set,  Bob,"  said  Bettina,  as  she  gathered  up  the 
'•'  tennis  balls.  "But  please  say  you  think  I'm  improv- 
ing! Oh,  there'll  come  a  time  when  I'll  make  you  a  stiff 
opponent,  but  I'll  have  to  work  up  my  service  first !  It's  time 
to  go  home  to  breakfast  now,  but  hasn't  it  been  fun?" 

"Fine,  Betty !  We'll  do  it  again !  I  don't  object  at  all  to 
getting  up  early  when  I'm  once  up !  And  we  ought  to  get  out 
and  play  tennis  before  breakfast  every  day." 

"I  knew  you'd  like  it  when  you'd  tried  it  once.  But  it  took 
my  birthday  to  make  you  willing  to  celebrate  this  way." 

"Just  you  wait  till  you  see  what  I  have  for  you  at  home !  I 
made  it  all  myself,  with  a  little  help  from  Ruth  1*^ 

"Oh,  Bob,  is  that  what  you've  been  doing  all  these  even- 
ings ?  I'm  so  anxious  to  see  it !  I've  begrudged  the  time  you've 
spent  all  alone  hammering  and  sawing  away  down  in  the  base- 
ment, but  I  didn't  let  myself  even  wonder  what  it  was  you  were 
making,  since  you  had  asked  me  not  to  look." 

"Well,  while  you're  beginning  the  breakfast,  I'll  be  bringing 
your  birthday  gift  upstairs.    Then  I  can  help  you." 

In  a  short  time,  when  Bettina  was  arranging  the  cheerful 
hollyhocks  on  the  table,  she  heard  a  low  whistle  behind  her. 
There  stood  Bob — looking  like  a  sandwich-man,  with  a  brightly 
flowered  cretonne  screen  draped  about  him. 

"Well,  how  do  you  like  it?" 

"Oh,  Bob,  it's  the  sewing-screen  I've  been  wanting,  and  it 
just  matches  the  cretonne  bedroom  hangings!  Here  are  the 
little  pockets   for  mending  and  darning  materials — and   the 

46 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  47 

larger  ones  for  the  unfinished  work !  How  beautifully  it  is 
made — and  won't  it  be  convenient!  It  will  be  useful  as  a 
screen,  and  also  as  a  place  for  those  sewing  things,  for  I  have 
no  good  place  at  all  in  which  to  keep  them !  It  will  be  decora- 
tive, too !  And  how  light  it  is !  I  can  carry  it  so  easily,  and 
work  beside  it  on  the  porch  or  in  the  living  room !" 

"Glad  you  like  it !  Ruth  designed  it,  and  made  the  pockets. 
I  did  the  carpenter  work." 

"Bob,  it's  a  lovely  birthday  gift,  and  I  appreciate  it  all  the 
more  because  you  made  it  yourself.  How  pretty  it  is  with  all 
the  woodwork  enameled  white !" 

"I  wanted  it  to  match  the  bedroom  things.  Well,  is  that 
coffee  done  yet  ?    Tennis  certanly  does  give  me  an  appetite !" 

Breakfast  consisted  of : 

Iced  Cantelope 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast 

Toast  Apple  Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Poached  Eggs  (Two  portions) 

2  eggs  I  t-salt 

I  t-butter  I  pt.  water,  boiling 

Butter  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan  or  frying-pan.  Fill  half 
full  of  boiling  water.  Break  the  eggs  one  at  a  time  in  a  sauce 
dish,  and  slip  them  very  gently  into  the  pan  of  boiling  water. 
The  eggs  will  lower  the  temperature  of  the  water  to  a  point 
below  the  boiling  point.  Keep  the  water  at  this  point  (below 
boiling).  Allow  the  eggs  to  remain  in  the  water  four  to  six 
minutes,  or  until  the  desired  consistency.  Remove  from  the 
water  with  a  skimmer  and  serve  on  slices  of  toast  which  are 
hot,  buttered,  and  slightly  moistened  with  water.  The  proper 
length  of  time  for  poaching  eggs  is  until  a  white  film  has 
formed  over  the  yolks  and  the  white  is  firm.  A  tin  or  alum- 
inum tgg  poacher  is  very  convenient.  When  using  rings,  but- 
ter the  rings,  fill  each  compartment  with  an  egg,  and  dip  into 
the  boiling  water.  These  are  inexpensive,  and  economical,  as 
tjo  part  of  the  egg  is  wasted 


48     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Toast  (Four  Pieces) 

4  slices  bread  2  T-butter 

Toast  slices  of  bread  one-half  an  inch  thick  on  the  broiler 
directly  under  the  flame,  or  on  a  toaster  fitted  for  a  burner  on 
top  of  the  stove.  Brown  on  one  side,  then  turn  and  brown  on 
the  other.  When  both  sides  are  an  even  golden  brown,  butter 
one  side,  care  being  taken  to  butter  the  edges.  Set  the  toast 
on  an  enamel  plate  or  tin  pie-pan  in  the  oven,  until  all  the 
pieces  are  ready  for  serving.    Always  serve  toast  very  hot. 

Apple  Sauce  (Two  portions) 

4  apples  4  T-sugar 

1/3  C-water  H  t-cinnamon 

Wash,  peel  and  core  the  apples.  Add  water  and  cook  slowly 
in  a  covered  utensil  until  tender.  Remove  cover,  add  the  sugar 
and  cook  two  minutes.    Sprinkle  cinnamon  on  the  top. 


CHAPTER   XII 
BETTINA'S  FATHER  TRIES  HER  COOKING 

^^OO  she  is  about  to  try  her  cooking  on  me,  is  she?"  said 

^  Bettina's  father  to  Bob,  as  he  sat  down  at  the  table. 
"Well,  I'll  admit  that  I  have  looked  forward  to  this  all  day. 
But  there  was  a  time  when  I  was  a  little  more  skeptical  of  Bet- 
tina's  culinary  skill.  You  know,  when  mother  was  in  Califor- 
nia two  years  ago  last  winter " 

"Now,  Charlie,  you  know  that  all  girls  have  to  learn  at  some 
time  or  other,"  interrupted  Bettina's  mother.  "And  I  believe 
that  Bob  has  fared  pretty  well,  considering  that  Bettina  is  just 
beginning  to  keep  house " 

"I  should  say  so!"  said  Bob,  heartily.  "Why,  I'm  getting 
fat!     I  was  weighed  to-day,  and " 

"Don't  say  any  more,  Bob !  We'll  rent  the  house  and  take 
to  boarding!    If  you  get  fat " 

"No  boarding-houses  for  mine!  Not  after  your  cooking, 
Bettina!  I  had  enough  of  boarding  before  I  was  married. 
Say — ^how  long  ago  that  does  seem." 

"Has  the  time  dragged  as  much  as  that?  Well,  I'll  change 
the  subject.  Dad,  how  do  you  like  my  Japanese  garden?  I 
think  it's  pretty,  don't  you  ?" 

"I  certainly  do,  my  dear.    What  are  those  feathery  things  ?" 

"Why,  don't  you  know  that,  Father?  And  when  you  were 
a  boy,  you  worked  on  a  farm  one  summer,  too !  There's  a 
parsnip  and  a  horse  radish,  and  a  beet.  Then  there  are  a  few 
parsley  seeds  and  grass  seeds  on  a  tiny  sponge !  And  see  the 
little  shells  and  stones  that  Bob  and  I  collected  for  it." 

"Yes,  we  found  that  pink  stone  up  the  river  on  a  picnic  a 

49 


50     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

year  ago  last  May,  before  we  were  engaged,  or  were  we  en- 
gaged then,  Bettina  ?    And  the  purple  one " 

"Oh,  you  needn't  reminisce,"   Bettina  interrupted  hastily. 
"Eat  your  dinner." 

"Every  little  stone 
Has  a  meaning  all  its  own. 

Every  little  shell 

But  it  wouldn't  do  to  tell." 


"I  composed  that  poem  just  this  minute,"  said  Bob,  undis- 
turbed. 

"Will  you  help  me  get  the  dessert  now,  Robert?  Are  you 
ready.  Mother?    And  Father?" 

"Yes,  indeed.  A  very  fine  dinner,  Bettina.  We  never  have 
steak  fixed  this  way  at  home;  do  we,  Mother?  Can  we  try  it 
some  day  soon  ?" 

"I  have  something  for  dessert  that  you  like.  Dad.  Guess 
what!" 

"What  is  it  ?  Oh,  lemon  pie !  That  is  fine,  I  can  tell  you ! 
But  I  know  already  that  it  won't  be  as  good  as  your  mother's ! 
Still,  we'll  try  it  and  see !" 

That  evening  for  dinner,  Bettina  served : 

Devilled  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Baking-powder  Biscuits  Jelly 

Cucumber  and  Radish  Salad 

Lemon  Pie 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Devilled  Steak  (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter  J^  t-pepper 

I  T-onion  ]/%  t-paprika 
V/i  lb.  flank  steak  ^  inch  thick       i  t-mustard 
2  T-flour  I  T-vinegar 

I  t-salt  I  T-flour 

2  C-water 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  slice  the  onion  in  it  and  saute 
gently  until  golden  brown  in  color.     Remove  the  onion  from 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  51 

the  butter,  cut  the  flank  steak  into  pieces  three  by  two  inches. 
Dredge  these  Hghtly  in  one  tablespoon  flour  and  saute  in  the 
butter  until  well  browned.  Remove  the  meat  from  the  frying- 
pan  ;  add  the  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  mustard,  vinegar  and  flour. 
Mix  all  together  and  add  the  water  slowly.  Replace  the  steak 
in  the  pan,  cover  closely  and  simmer  one  hour,  or  until  the 
steak  is  tender.  Serve  on  a  warm  platter  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  it. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit  (Fifteen  biscuits) 

2  C-flour  14  t-salt 

4  t-baking  powder       3  T-lard 

2/3  C-milk 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  cut  in  the 
lard  with  a  knife  until  the  consistency  of  cornmeal.  Add  the 
milk,  mixing  with  a  knife.  Pat  into  a  rectangular  shape,  one- 
half  inch  thick,  on  a  floured  board.  Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter 
one  and  one-half  inches  in  diameter.  Place  side  by  side  in  a 
tin  pan.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Cucumber  and  Radish  Salad  (Four  portions) 

1  C-diced    cucumbers  i  t-salt 

1/2  C-diced  radishes  %  t-pepper 

2  t-chopped  onion  4  T-salad   dressing 

4  lettuce  leaves 

Mix  the  cucumbers,  radishes,  onions,  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
salad  dressing.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Lemon  Pie 

Filling  2  egg-yolks 

I  C-sugar  ly^  C-water 

^2  t-salt  I  t-grated   rind 

juice  I  large  lemon       J^  C-flour 
I  t-butter 

Beat  the  egg  yolks,  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  beat ;  add 
the  flour,  salt,  water,  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  the  pastry  shell,  cover  with 
meringue  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  meringue  is 


52     A  Thousand  Ways  to  Please  a  Husband 

Pie  Crust 

1  C-flour  Ys  t-salt 

1/3  C-lard  2  T-cold    water 

Cut  the  lard  into  the  flour  and  salt  with  a  knife.  Add  the 
water  gradually,  lifting  with  a  knife  that  portion  that  was 
moistened  first  and  pushing  it  to  one  side  of  the  bowl,  wet  an- 
other portion  and  continue  until  all  is  moistened,  using  just 
enough  water  to  hold  together.  Put  together  and  place  on  a 
floured  board.  Roll  the  crust  to  fit  the  pan.  Press  the  crust 
firmly  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Prick  the  sides  and  bottom 
with  a  fork.  Crinkle  the  edges  of  the  crust ;  have  the  crust  ex- 
tend above  the  edge  of  the  pan  to  make  a  deep  shell  for  the 
filling.  Bake  the  crust  first  to  make  it  more  crisp.  Do  not 
butter  the  pan.  Bake  from  five  to  six  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
When  the  crust  is  done,  add  the  filling  and  cover  this  with 
the  meringue. 

Meringue 

2  e^Q  whites  beaten  stiff  5  T-sugar  (powdered  preferred) 

Yz  t-lemon  extract 

Do  not  beat  the  egg-whites  until  ready  for  use.  Then  beat 
until  stiff  and  add  the  sugar  and  extract,  beating  only  a  minute. 
Pile  the  meringue  lightly  on  top  of  the  filling,  and  bake  the 
whole  slowly.  If  baked  too  quickly,  the  meringue  will  rise  and 
then  fall.    Bake  only  until  it  turns  a  golden  brown. 


CHAPTER   XIII 
BOB  HELPS  WITH  THE  DINNER 

^^T  TERE.  Bettina,  let  me  mash  those  potatoes!     It^s  fine 

-*-  -■-  exercise  after  a  day  at  the  office !"  And  Bob  seized 
the  potato  masher  with  the  same  vigor  that  he  used  to  handle 
a  tennis  racquet. 

"Good  for  you,  Bob  !  They  can't  have  a  single  lump  in  them 
after  that !  About  the  most  unappetizing  thing  I  can  think  of 
is  lumpy  mashed  potato,  or  mashed  potato  that  is  heavy  and 
unseasoned.  More  milk?  You'd  better  use  plenty.  Here! 
Now  watch  me  toss  them  lightly  into  this  hot  dish  and  put  a 
little  parsley  and  a  lump  of  butter  on  the  top.  There,  doesn't 
that  look  delicious  ?" 

"I  should  say  so !  And  look  at  the  fancy  tomatoes,  each  one 
with  a  cover !    What  on  earth  is  inside  ?" 

"Just  wait  till  you  taste  them;  they're  a  new  invention  of 
mine,  and  I  do  believe  they'll  make  a  splendid  luncheon  dish 
for  the  next  time  that  Ruth  is  here,  or  Alice  brings  her  sewing 
over.  I'm  practising  on  you  first,  you  see,  and  if  you  survive 
and  seem  to  like  them,  I  may  use  them  for  a  real  company 
dish." 

"You  can't  frighten  me  that  way !     Creamed  chicken  ?" 

"Creamed  veal.  Don't  you  remember  what  we  had  for  din- 
ner last  night?  There  were  two  chops  left  and  I  made  it  of 
them.  I  know  it  is  good  when  made  of  cold  veal  roast,  but  I 
had  never  tried  it  with  cold  veal  chops — so  again  I  am  experi- 
menting on  you,  Bobby  I" 

"You  don't  frighten  me  so  easily  as  that !  I've  just  caught 
a  glimpse  of  something  that  looks  like  cocoanut  cake,  and  I'll 
be  happy  now,  no  matter  how  the  rest  of  the  dinner  tastes !" 

53 


54     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"There,   everything   is   on,   Bob !     Let's   sit   down  to   din- 
ner, and  you  tell  me  all  about  your  day !" 
Dinner  consisted  of : 

Creamed  Veal  Mashed  Potatoes 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  Bettina 

Bread  Butter 

Sliced   Peaches  Cream 

Cocoanut    Cake 

Iced  Tea 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(An  measurements  are  level) 
Creamed  Veal  (Two  portions) 

I  C-cooked  veal  chopped  ^  C-white  sauce   (medium) 

3  rounds  of  toast 

Mix  the  veal  and  sauce.  Heat  and  serve  hot  on  rounds  ol; 
toast. 

Mashed  Potatoes   (Two  portions)\ 

4  potatoes     14  T-butter 
2  C-water     J^  t-salt 
I  t-salt  J4  t-paprika 

I  T-milk 

Wash  and  peel  medium-sized  potatoes ;  cook  in  boiling  water 
(salted)  until  tender.  (About  twenty  minutes.)  Drain  and 
shake  over  the  fire  a  minute  or  two  until  they  are  a  little  dry. 
Either  mash  with  potato  masher,  or  put  through  potato  ricer. 
Add  butter,  salt,  paprika  and  milk.  Beat  till  very  light,  flufify 
and  white.  Reheat  by  setting  the  saucepan  in  a  larger  kettle 
containing  boiling  water.  Place  over  flame.  More  milk  may 
be  needed.  Pile  them  lightly  on  the  hot  dish  in  which  they 
are  to  be  served. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  Bettina  (Two  portions) 

2  firm,  good-sized  tomatoes 

3  T-fresh  bread  crumbs 

2  T-left-over  cooked  vegetables  (peas,  beans,  celery  or  corn) 

I  T-chopped  cooked  ham  or  cooked  bacon 
%  t-paprika 

I  T-egg 

I  t-melted  butter 
Vi  t-salt 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  55 

Wash  the  tomatoes  thoroughly  and  cut  a  sHce  one  inch  in 
diameter  from  the  blossom  end,  reserving  it  for  future  use. 
Carefully  scoop  out  the  pulp,  being  careful  to  leave  the  shell 
firm.  To  the  tomato  pulp,  add  bread  crumbs,  left-over  vege- 
tables, chopped  meat,  ^gg,  melted  butter,  salt  and  paprika. 
Cook  the  mixture  four  minutes  over  the  fire.  Fill  the  shells 
with  the  cooked  mixture.  Put  the  slices  back  on  the  tomatoes. 
Place  in  a  small  pan  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


CHAPTER  XIV 

A  SUNDAY  EVENING  TEA 

^^TTT^HAT  kind  of  tea  is  this?"  Ruth  inquired  one  Sunday 
»  ^     evening  on  the  porch. 

"Why,  this  is  a  mixture  of  green  and  black  tea,"  said  Bet- 
tina.    "I  Hke  that  better  for  iced  tea  than  either  kind  alone." 

"I  like  tea,"  said  Fred,  ''although  perhaps  that  isn't  consid- 
ered a  manly  sentiment  in  this  country.  I  hope  you  do  too, 
Ruth.  Nothing  seems  so  cozy  to  me  as  tea  and  toast.  And  I 
like  iced  tea  like  this  in  the  summertime.  An  uncle  of  mine  is 
very  fond  of  tea,  and  has  offered  to  send  me  some  that  he  con- 
siders particularly  fine.  I  believe  that  Orange  Pekoe  is  his 
favorite." 

"I  think  that  has  the  best  flavor  of  all,"  said  Bettina,  "though 
just  now  we  are  using  an  English  breakfast  tea  that  we  like 
very  much.  And  the  green  tea  mixed  with  it  for  this  is  Japan 
tea." 

"I've  heard  my  uncle  say  that  Tekoe'  means  *white  hair,* 
and  is  applied  to  young  leaves  because  they  are  covered  with  a 
fine  white  down.  Uncle  also  says  that  black  teas  are  consid- 
ered  more  wholesome  than  green  because  they  contain  less  tan- 
nin.    I  tell  you,  he's  a  regular  connoisseur." 

"I  see  that  I  must  become  an  expert  tea-maker !"  said  Ruth. 
"I'm  learning  something  new  about  Fred  every  day.  Bettina, 
do  tell  me  exactly  how  you  make  tea.  Fred  can  listen,  too,  un- 
less he  already  knows." 

"Well,  let's  see,  Ruth.  I  take  a  level  teaspoonful  of  tea  to  a 
cup  of  water.  I  put  the  tea  in  a  scalded  earthenware  tea-pot — 
that  kind  is  better  than  metal — and  pour  boiling  water  over  it 

56 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  57 

— fresh  water.  Then  I  cover  it  and  allow  it  to  steep  from  three 
to  five  minutes.  Then  I  strain  and  serve  it.  You  know  tea 
should  always  be  freshly  made,  and  never  warmed  over.  It 
shouldn't  be  boiled  either,  not  a  second.  Boiling,  or  too  long 
steeping,  brings  out  the  tannin." 

"But  how  about  iced-tea  ?    That  has  to  stand." 

*Tt  shouldn't  steep,  though.  I  make  it  just  like  any  tea  and 
strain  it.  Then  I  let  it  cool,  and  set  it  on  the  ice  for  three  or 
four  hours.    I  serve  it  with  chipped  ice,  lemon  and  mint." 

"Mother  always  added  a  cherry  to  her  afternoon  tea,"  said 
Ruth. 

"That  would  be  great,"  said  Bob.  *T  don't  care  much  for 
hot  tea,  but  I  believe  I  would  be  willing  to  drink  a  cup  for  the 
sake  of  the  cherry." 

"Ruth,"  said  Bettina,  "I  know  now  what  I  will  give  you  for 
an  engagement  present  since  Fred  likes  tea,  too.  A  silver  tea- 
ball.     Surely  that  will  symbolize  comfort  and  fireside  cheer." 

"Speaking  of  firesides,"  asked  Bob,  "what  material  have  you 
decided  upon  for  your  fireplace?  It  seems  to  me  that  we're 
talking  too  much  about  tea-making,  and  not  enough  about 
house-building." 

That  evening  Bettina  served : 

Salmon  Salad  with  Jellied  Vegetables 

Boston  Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 

Sliced  Fresh  Peaches 

One  Egg  Cake  Chocolate  Icing 

Iced  Tea 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Salmon   Salad   with   Jellied    Vegetables    (Four   portions) 

I  C-cooked  mixed  diced  vegetables  (string 
beans,  carrots,  peas  or  celery) 

1  C-meat  stock  or  water  (hot) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin 
1  t-salt 

1  T-chopped  pimento 

3  T-cold  water 
I  t-lemon  juice 


58     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Cooked  vegetables  may  be  combined  for  this  salad.  Soak 
the  gelatin  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes,  add  the  meat  stock 
or  water  and  stir  until  the  gelatin  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  If 
it  is  not  completely  dissolved,  heat  over  a  pan  of  hot  water. 
Add  the  vegetables  in  such  proportions  as  desired  or  con- 
venient. Add  the  salt,  lemon  juice  and  pimento ;  turn  the  mix- 
ture into  a  moistened  mould.  (A  ring  mould  is  attractive.) 
Allow  to  stand  for  one  hour  or  more  in  a  cold  place.  When 
ready  to  serve,  remove  from  mould  to  a  chilled  plate.  If  a 
ringed  mould  is  used,  the  center  may  be  filled  with  flaked  sal- 
mon over  which  salad  dressing  has  been  poured.  If  the  vege- 
table part  is  used  as  a  salad,  salad  dressing  may  be  placed 
around  the  vegetables. 

One  Egg  Cake   (Ten  portions) 

4  T-butter  H  C-milk 

Yz  C-sugar  iH  C-flour 

I  t^g  2j/^  t-baking  powder 

I  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  and  the  egg  well 
beaten.  Mix  and  sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  the  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  loaf- 
cake  pan  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

'  Chocolate  Icing  for  Cake 

I  square  of  chocolate,  melted    i^  powdered  sugar 
3  T-boiling  water  J/^  t-vanilla 

Melt  the  chocolate,  add  a  little  powdered  sugar,  then  water 
and  flavoring  and  sufficient  sugar  to  allow  the  icing  to  spread 
on  cake.  Usually  one  and  one-half  cups  is  the  necessary 
amount.    Spread  on  the  cake. 


CHAPTER   XV 

A  MOTOR  PICNIC 

^^TT  ELLO,  Bettina ;  this  is  Bob.  What  are  you  having  for 
-■-  -■■    dinner  to-night?" 

"It's  all  in  the  fireless  cooker !    Why  ?" 

"Couldn't  you  manage  to  make  a  picnic  supper  of  it?  One 
of  the  men  at  the  office  has  invited  us  to  go  motoring  to-night 
with  him  and  his  wife,  and,  of  course,  I  said  we'd  be  delighted. 
They're  boarding,  poor  things,  and  I  asked  if  we  couldn't 
bring  the  supper.  He  seemed  glad  to  have  me  suggest  it.  I 
suppose  he  hasn't  had  any  home  cooking  for  months.  Do  you 
suppose  you  could  manage  the  lunch  ?    How  about  it  ?" 

"Why,  let  me  think  !    How  soon  must  we  start  ?" 

"We'll  be  there  in  an  hour  or  a  little  less.  Don't  bother  about 
it — get  anything  you  happen  to  have." 

"It's  fine  to  go,  dear.    Of  course,  I'll  be  ready.    Good-bye !" 

Bettina's  brain  was  busy.  There  was  a  veal  loaf  baking  in 
one  compartment  of  the  cooker,  and  on  the  other  side,  some 
Boston  brown  bread  was  steaming.  Her  potatoes  were  cooked 
already  for  creaming,  and  although  old  potatoes  would  have 
been  better  for  the  purpose,  she  might  make  a  salad  of  theni^ 
As  she  hastily  put  on  some  eggs  to  hard-cook,  she  inspected  her 
ice  box.  Yes,  those  cold  green  beans,  left  from  last  night's 
dinner,  would  be  good  in  the  salad.  What  else?  "It  needs 
something  to  give  it  character,"  she  reflected.  "A  little  canned 
pimento — and,  yes — a  few  of  the  pickles  in  that  jar." 

Of  course,  she  had  salad  dressing — she  was  never  without 
it.  Sandwiches  ?  The  brown  bread  would  be  too  fresh  and 
soft  for  sandwiches,  but  she  could  keep  it  hot,  and  take  some 

59 


60    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

butter  along.  'Tm  glad  it  is  cool  to-day.  We'll  need  hot 
coffee  in  the  thermos  bottle,  and  I  can  make  it  a  warm  supper — 
except  for  the  salad." 

She  took  the  veal  loaf  and  the  steamed  brown  bread  from 
the  cooker,  and  put  them  into  the  oven  to  finish  cooking. 

"How  lucky  it  is  that  I  made  those  Spanish  buns !  And  the 
bananas  that  were  to  have  been  sliced  for  dessert,  I  can  just 
take  along  whole." 

When  Bettina  heard  the  auto  horn,  and  then  Bob's  voice,  she 
was  putting  on  her  hat. 

"Well,  Betty,  could  you  manage  it  ?" 

"Yes,  indeed,  dear.  Everything  is  ready.  The  thermos  bot- 
tle has  coffee  in  it,  piping  hot ;  the  lunch  basket  over  there  is 
packed  with  the  warm  things  wrapped  tight,  and  that  pail  with 
the  burlap  over  it  is  a  temporary  ice  box.  It  holds  a  piece  of 
ice,  and  beside  it  is  the  cream  for  the  coffee  and  the  potato 
salad.  It  is  cool  to-day,  but  I  thought  it  best  to  pack  them  that 
way.'* 

"You  are  the  best  little  housekeeper  in  this  town,"  said  Bob 
as  he  kissed  her.  "I  don't  believe  anyone  else  could  have  man- 
aged a  picnic  supper  on  such  short  notice.  Come  on  out  and 
meet  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dixon.  May  I  tell  them  that  they  have  a 
fine  spread  coming?" 

"Don't  you  dare,  sir.  It's  a  very  ordinary  kind  of  a  sup- 
per, and  even  you  are  apt  to  be  disappointed." 

But  he  wasn't. 

Bettina's  picnic  supper  that  cool  day  consisted  of : 

Warm  Veal  Loaf  Cold  Potato  Salad 

Fresh  Brown  Bread  Butter 

Spanish  Buns  Bananas 

Hot  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Veal  Loaf   (Six  to  eight  portions) 

2  lbs.  lean  veal  4  t-onion   salt 

^  lb.  salt  pork  i  T-salt 

6  large   crackers  H  t-pepper 

2  T-lemon   juice  4  T-cream 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  61 

Put  two  crackers  in  the  meat  grinder,  add  bits  of  meat  and 
pork  and  the  rest  of  the  crackers.  The  cracl^crs  first  and  last 
prevent  the  pork  and  meat  from  sticking-  to  the  grinder.  Add 
other  ingredients  in  order  named.  Pack  in  a  well-buttered 
bread-pan.  Smooth  evenly  on  top,  brush  with  white  of  an  G^gg 
and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Baste  frequently.  The 
meat  may  be  cooked  in  a  fireless  cooker  between  two  stones.  It 
is  perfectly  satisfactory  cooked  this  way,  and  requires  nc 
basting. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  (Six  portions) 

I   C-rye  or  graham  flour  ^   C-molasses 

I  C-cornmeai  J4   C-sugar 

I   C-white  flour  i^^   C-sour    milk    or    i^    C-sweet 

I  t-salt  milk  or  water 

ij^  t-soda  2/3  C-raisins 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses  and  liquid.  Fill 
well-buttered  moulds  two-thirds  full,  butter  the  top  of  mould, 
and  steam  three  and  one-half  hours.  Remove  from  moulds 
and  place  in  an  oven  to  dry  ten  minutes  before  serving,  i — If 
sweet  milk  is  used,  i  T-vinegar  to  i^  C  will  sour  the  milk. 
2 — Baking  powder  cans,  melon  moulds,  lard  pails  or  any  at- 
tractively shaped  tin  cans  may  be  used  as  a  mould.  3 — Two 
methods  of  steaming  are  used:  (a)  Regular  steamer  in  which 
the  mould,  either  large  or  individual,  is  placed  over  a  pan  of 
boiling  water.  Buttered  papers  may  be  tied  firmly  over  the 
tops  of  uncovered  moulds,  (b)  Steaming  in  boiling  water. 
The  mould  is  placed  on  a  small  article  in  the  bottom  of  a  pan 
of  boiling  water.  This  enables  the  water  to  circulate  around 
the  mould.  Care  must  be  observed  in  keeping  the  kettle  two- 
thirds  full  of  boiling  water  all  of  the  time  of  cooking.  (Bet- 
tina  used  the  method  in  the  fireless  cooker.)  She  started 
the  brown  bread  in  the  cooker  utensil  on  the  top  of  the  stove. 
When  the  water  was  boiling  vigorously,  she  placed  it  over  one 
hot  stone  in  the  cooker.  The  water  came  two-thirds  of  the  dis- 
tance to  the  top  of  her  cans.  In  the  cooker,  she  did  not  have  to 
watch  for  fear  the  water  would  boil  away.  After  fastening 
the  lid  tightly  on  the  cooker-kettle  in  which  the  bread  was  to 
steam,  she  did  not  look  at  it  again  for  four  hours.  (It  takes 
a  little  longer  in  the  cooker  than  on  the  stove.) 


CHAPTER   XVI 
BETTINA  HAS  A  CALLER 

THE  next  morning  Bettina  was  alone  in  her  little  kitcher 
when  the  door  bell  rang. 

"Why,  Mrs.  Dixon;  how  do  you  do?"  she  said,  as  she 
opened  the  door  and  recognized  the  visitor.  "Won't  you  come 
in?" 

It  must  be  admitted  that  Bettina  was  somewhat  embarrassed 
at  the  unexpected  call  at  so  unconventional  a  time.  Mrs.  Dixon 
was  dressed  in  a  trim  street  costume,  but  under  her  veil  Bet- 
tina could  see  that  her  eyes  were  red,  and  her  lips  quivered  as 
she  answered: 

"Forgive  me  for  coming  so  early,  but  I  just  had  to.  I  know 
you'll  think  me  silly  to  talk  to  you  confidentially  when  I  met 
you  only  yesterday,  but  I  do  want  your  advice  about  some- 
thing. You  mustn't  stop  what  you  are  doing.  Couldn't  I  come 
into  the  kitchen  and  talk  while  you  work  ?" 

"Why,  my  dear,  of  course  you  can,"  said  Bettina,  trying  to 
put  her  at  her  ease.  "You  can't  guess  what  I  was  doing!  I 
was  washing  my  pongee  dress;  someone  told  me  of  such  a 
good  way !" 

"Why,  could  you  do  it  all  yourself  ?"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  open- 
ing her  eyes  wide.    "Why  not  send  it  to  be  dry-cleaned  ?" 

"Of  course  I  might,"  said  Bettina,  "but  it  would  be  expen- 
sive, and  I  do  like  to  save  a  little  money  every  month  from 
my  housekeeping  allowance.  There  are  always  so  many  things 
I  want  to  get.  You  see  I'm  doing  this  in  luke-warm,  soapy 
water — throwing  the  soap-suds  up  over  the  goods,  then  I'll 
rinse  it  well,  and  hang  it  in  the  shade  to  drip  until  it  gets  dry. 

62 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  63 

I  won't  press  it  till  it  is  fully  dry,  because  if  I  do,  it  will  be 
spotted." 

"How  do  you  learn  things  like  that?" 

"Oh,  since  I've  been  married,  and  even  before,  when  I 
thought  about  keeping  house,  I  began  to  pick  up  all  sorts  of 
good  ideas.  I  like  economizing;  it  gives  me  an  opportunity 
to  use  all  the  ingenuity  I  have." 

"Does  it?  I  always  thought  it  would  be  awfully  tiresome. 
You  see,  I've  lived  in  a  hotel  all  my  life ;  my  mother  never 
was  strong,  and  I  was  the  only  child.  I  liked  it,  and  since  I've 
been  married,  we've  lived  the  same  way.  I  never  thought  of 
anything  else  and  I  supposed  Frank  would  like  it,  too — but 
lately — oh,  all  the  last  year — he's  been  begging  me  to  let  him 
find  us  a  house.  And  then" — (Bettina  saw  that  her  eyes  had 
filled  with  tears) — "he  has  been  so  different.  You  have  no  idea, 
my  dear.  Why — he  hasn't  been  at  home  with  me  two  even- 
ings a  week — and " 

"You  must  be  dreadfully  unhappy,"  interrupted  Bettioa, 
wondering  what  she  could  say,  since  she  disliked  particularly 
to  listen  to  any  account  of  domestic  difficulties.  "But  why  not 
try  keeping  house?  Maybe  that  would  be  better.  Why,  Bob 
doesn't  like  to  be  away  from  home  any  evenings  at  all." 

"But  you've  just  been  married !"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  tactlessly. 
"Wait  and  see  how  he'll  be  after  a  few  years !" 

"Well,  that's  all  the  more  reason  for  trying  to  make  him  like 
his  home.    Have  you  thought  of  taking  a  house  ?" 

"That  was  just  the  reason  I  came  to  you.  You  seem  to  be 
so  happy  living  this  way — and  it  surprised  me.  I  knew  last 
evening  what  Frank  was  thinking  when  he  saw  this  little  house 
— and  then  when  you  unpacked  the  lunch — ^tell  me  honestly, 
did  you  cook  it  yourself?" 

"Of  course,"  said  Bettina,  smiling. 

"Wasn't  it  hard  to  learn  ?  Why,  I  can't  cook  a  thing — I  can't 
even  make  coffee !  Frank  says  if  he  could  only  have  one  break- 
fast that  was  fit  to  eat "  and  she  buried  her  face  in  her 

handkerchief. 

"Why,  Mrs.  Dixon !"  cried  Bettina,  cheerfully,  though  her 
heart  was  beating  furiously.    "Your  trouble  is  the  easiest  one 


64     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

in  the  world  to  remedy !  Your  husband  is  just  hungry — that*s 
all !  ril  tell  you — we'll  make  this  a  little  secret  between  us,  arid 
have  such  fun  over  it!  You  do  just  as  I  tell  you  for  one 
month  and  I'll  guarantee  that  Frank  will  be  at  home  every  sin- 
gle minute  that  he  can !" 

"Do  you  suppose  I  can  learn?" 

"I'll  show  you  every  single  thing.  We'll  slip  out  this  very 
day  and  look  for  a  little  house — to  surprise  Frank !  And  I'll 
teach  you  to  cook  by  easy  stages !" 

"Oh,  will  you?"  smiled  Mrs.  Dixon,  showing  an  adorable 
dimple  in  her  round  cheek.  "You  don't  know  how  much  bet- 
ter I  feel  already  !    When  can  we  begin  ?" 

"Right  now — with  coffee — real,  sure  'nough  coffee  that  will 
make  Frank's  eyes  stick  out !     Have  you  a  percolator  ?" 

"No,  but  I  can  get  one." 

"It  isn't  necessary  at  all.  I'll  tell  you  how  to  do  without  it, 
and  then  using  one  will  be  perfectly  simple." 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Coffee   (Four  cups) 

7  T-coffee  J^  T-egg  white 

3  T-cold  water  4J4  C-boiling  water 

Scald  the  coffee  pot,  add  the  coffee,  cold  water  and  egg- 
white.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  the  boiling  water.  Boil  two  min- 
utes.   Allow  to  stand  in  the  pot  one  minute.    Serve. 

Twin  Mountain  Muffins 

2  C-flour  I  egg 

4  t-baking  powder  i  C-milk 

Ya  t-salt  I  T-melted   butter 

54  C-sugar 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and 
sugar.  Beat  the  tgg,  add  the  milk;  add  these  liquid  ingredi- 
ents to  the  dry  ones.  Beat  two  minutes.  Add  the  melted 
butter.  Fill  well  buttered  muffin  pans  one-half  full.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 


CHAPTER  XVII 
BOB  GETS  BREAKFAST  ON  SUNDAY 

^^"VTOW,  Bettina,  you  sit  here  and  direct  me,  but  don't  you 

-*-  ^  you  dare  to  move.  Fm  going  to  get  breakfast  my- 
self." 

"Fine  for  you,  chef!  Have  it  on  the  porch,  will  you?  It's 
the  most  beautiful  morning  of  the  year,  I  do  believe!  But 
you  must  give  me  something  to  do.  Let  me  set  the  table,  will 
you  ?" 

"Well,  you  can  do  that,  but  get  me  an  apron  first.  Be  sure 
you  get  one  that'll  be  becoming!" 

Bettina  went  to  a  deep  drawer  in  the  pantry,  of  which  the 
breakfast  alcove  was  a  part,  and  selected  a  white  bungalow 
apron  with  red  dots. 

"Here,  put  your  arms  through  this !  There,  how  *chic'  you 
look!  Bob,  do  you  realize  that  this  is  our  first  breakfast  on 
the  porch?  I  must  get  some  of  those  feathery  things  growing 
out  there ;  I  want  them  for  the  table.     We  must  celebrate !" 

"If  having  flowers  on  the  table  is  celebrating,  you  celebrate 
every  day !" 

"Of  course,  my  dear!  Our  married  life  is  just  one  long 
celebration.     Haven't  you  discovered  that  yet?" 

Bettina  had  thus  far  no  flower  garden,  but  she  was  never 
without  flowers.  The  weeds  and  grasses  in  her  backyard  had 
a  way  of  turning  themselves  into  charming  centerpieces,  and 
then,  too,  red  clover  was  always  plentiful. 

Bob  moved  the  coffee  percolator  and  the  electric  toaster  to 
the  porch  and  attached  them  while  Bettina  spread  the  luncheon 
cloth  upon  the  small  table.     "Aren't  you  glad  we  thought  to 

65 


66     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

plan  it  so  that  we  might  have  the  percolator  and  the  toaster 
out  here?"  she  said.     *'That  was  your  idea,  wasn't  it?" 

"Aren't  you  glad  you  married  me?"  said  Bob  enthusiasti- 
cally.  "I'll  bet  I'm  the  only  man  on  this  street  who  can  frizzle 
dried  beef  and  cream  it !     And  make  coffee !" 

"Who  taught  you  that,  I'd  like  to  know?  Give  some  credit 
to  your  wife  who  forces  you  to  do  it!  Here,  Bridget!  The 
grapefruit  is  in  the  ice  box;  did  you  see  it?  And  the  oatmeal 
in  the  cooker  is  waiting  to  be  reheated.  Set  it  in  a  kettle  of 
waier  over  the  fire,  so  that  it  won't  burn.  There  are  rolls  in 
the  bread-box.  Put  them  in  the  oven  a  minute  to  warm  up. 
If  they  seem  dry,  dip  them  quickly  in  water  before  heating 
them.  Now  shall  I  be  making  some  toast-rounds  for  the  chip- 
ped beef?" 

"Well,  you  might  be  doing  that.  I'm  getting  dizzy  with  all 
these  orders,  ma'am.  You  can  hunt  up  the  cream  and  the  milk 
and  the  butter,  too,  if  you  will.  Now  for  the  beef !  Say,  but 
this  is  going  to  be  a  good  breakfast!  'Befoh  de  wah'  I  used 
to  sleep  late  on  Sundays,  but  not  any  more  for  me  I  I  like  to 
cook !" 

"There's  someone  at  the  door.  I'll  go ;  you're  busier  than  I 
am. 

There  on  the  doorstep  beside  the  Sunday  paper  stood  a  little 
four-year-old  neighbor,  her  hands  full  of  old-fashioned  pinks. 

"My  mother  sent  these  to  you,"  she  said. 

"Oh,  lovely,  dear!     Thank  you!     Won't  you  come  in?'* 

"No'm!  My  daddy  lias  to  shine  my  shoes  for  Sunday 
school." 

"Bob,  aren't  these  pretty  with  the  white  feathery  weeds?  I 
do  love  flowers !" 

"They  don't  look  half  so  pretty  as  this  'ere  frizzled  beef 
does !     Breakfast  is  all  ready  !" 

Bettina  sat  down  to  an  open-air  breakfast  of 


Grapefruit 

Oatmeal 

Cream 

Creamed  Beef 

Toast  Rounds 

Rolls 

Butter 

Coffee 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  67 

After  a  jolly  and  leisurely  meal,  Bob  announced  that  he  was 
ready  to  wash  the  dishes. 

"Ever  since  I've  seen  that  nice  white-lined  dishpan  of  yours, 
I've  wanted  to  try  it.  It's  oval,  and  I  never  saw  an  oval  one 
before." 

"I  like  it  because  it  fits  into  the  sink  so  well,  and  fills  all  the 
space  it  can." 

"See  how  efficient  I  am !  I  put  on  the  water  for  the  dishes 
when  we  sat  down  to  eat!  Now  I'll  have  nice  hot,  soapy 
water,  and  lots  of  it,  to  rinse  them !" 

"But  don't  rinse  the  glasses,  dear.  See  how  I  can  polish 
glass  and  silver  that  has  just  come  out  of  that  clean  soapy 
water  !  Look  !  Isn't  that  shiny  and  pretty  ?  There,  you  can 
scald  everything  else !" 

"There's  the  telephone!  It's  Mrs.  Dixon!  What  on  earth 
can  she  want  ?     She  asked  for  you  !" 

Bettina  talked  for  a  few  moments  in  monosyllables  and  then 
returned  to  the  dishes.  "What  did  she  have  to  say?"  Bob 
asked. 

"She  asked  me  not  to  tell  you.  Bob.  Nothing  much.  Per- 
haps you'll  know  some  day." 

Bob  looked  puzzled  and  slightly  hurt.  It  was  the  first  time 
that  Bettina  had  kept  anything  from  him  and  he  could  not  help 
showing  some  displeasure. 

Bettina  saw  this,  and  said :  "Bob,  I  don't  want  to  have  any 
secret  from  you,  and  I'd  like  you  to  know  that  this  is  nothing 
that  I  wouldn't  tell  you  gladly  if  I  were  the  only  one  con- 
cerned. I  promised,  that's  all.  You'll  smile  when  you  know 
all  about  it." 

And  Bob  was  mollified. 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Oatmeal  (Four  portions) 

^  C-rolIed  oats    2  C-hot  water 
y2  t-salt 

Put  the  hot  water  in  the  upper  part  of  the  double  boiler. 


68     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

When  boiling,  add  salt  and  oats.  Boil  the  mixture  for  three 
minutes.  Cover  and  place  the  upper  part  in  the  lower  part  of 
the  double  boiler.  Cook  over  a  moderate  fire  for  one  hour. 
Stir  occasionally. 

Creamed  Beef  (Four  portions) 

54  lb.  diced  beef  thinly  sliced        2  T-flour 
2  T-butter  i  C-milk 

Place  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  the  pan  is  hot 
and  the  butter  is  melted,  add  the  beef  separated  into  small 
pieces.  Allow  it  to  frizzle.  Add  the  flour,  mix  thoroughly 
with  beef  and  butter,  allowing  the  flour  to  brown  a  little.  Add 
the  milk  slowly,  cooking  until  thick  and  smooth.  Pour  over 
rounds  of  toast.     Garnish  with  parsley. 


CHAPTER   XVIII 

BETTINA   GIVES   A   PORCH   PARTY 

C  ^  T  'M  so  glad  that  you  girls  have  come,  for  Tve  been  long- 
-■-    ing  to  show  you  the  porch  ever  since  Bob  and  I  put  on 

the  finishing  touches." 

"O  Bettina,  it's  lovely!"  cried  all  the  guests  in  a  chorus. 
"But  weren't  you  awfully  extravagant  ?" 

"Wait  till  I  tell  you.  Perhaps  I  ought  not  to  give  myself 
away,  but  I  am  prouder  of  our  little  economies  than  of  any- 
thing else;  we've  had  such  fun  over  them.  This  is  some  old 
wicker  furniture  that  Mother  had  in  her  attic,  all  but  this 
chair,  that  came  from  Aunt  Nell's.  Bob  mended  it  very  care- 
foully,  and  then  enameled  it  this  dull  green  color.  I  have  been 
busy  with  these  cretonne  hangings  and  cushions  for  a  long 
time,  and  we  have  been  coaxing  along  the  flowers  in  our  hang- 
ing baskets  and  our  window  boxes  for  days  and  days,  so  that 
they  would  make  a  good  impression  on  our  first  porch  guests. 
Bob  made  the  flower  boxes  himself  and  enameled  them  to  go 
with  the  furniture.  This  high  wicker  flower  box  was  a  wed- 
ding gift,  and  so  was  the  wicker  reading  lamp.  This  matting 
rug  i,s  new,  but  I  must  admit  that  we  bought  nothing  else  except 
this  drop-leaf  table,  which  I  have  been  wanting  for  a  long 
time.  You  see  it  will  make  a  good  serving  table,  and  then 
we  expect  to  eat  on  it  in  warm  weather." 

"What  are  we  to  make  today,  Bettina?  The  invitation  has 
made  us  all  curious. 

"  'The  porch  is  cool  as  cool  can  be, 
So  come  on  Thursday  just  at  three, 
To  stay  awhile  and  sew 

69 


70     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

On  something  useful,  strong,  and  neat, 

Which,  with  your  help,  will  quite  complete 
Bettina's  bungalow !' " 

"What  about  the  little  sketches  of  knives  and  forks  and 
spoons  in  the  corners  ?" 

"Bob  did  that.  He  wrote  the  verse,  too,  or  Vm  afraid  I 
should  have  telephoned.     Are  we  all  here?     Wait  a  minute." 

And  Bettina  wheeled  out  her  tea-cart,  on  which,  among  trail- 
ing nasturtiums,  were  mysterious  packages  wrapped  in  fringed 
green  tissue  paper. 

"What  is  in  them  ?  Silver  cases — cut  and  ready  to  be  made ! 
Oh,  how  cunning!  Shall  we  label  them,  too?  What  is  the 
card? 

"  *ril  not  incase  your  silver  speech, 
For  that  is  quite  beyond  my  reach  V  " 

"Did  Bob  do  that,  too  ?  The  impudence  1"  and  Ruth  threaded 
her  needle  in  preparation. 

"You  see,"  said  Bettina,  "I  hadn't  found  time  to  make  cases 
for  my  silver,  so  I  just  decided  to  let  you  girls  help  me !  The 
card  tells  what  to  label  them,  in  outline  stitch  in  these  bright 
colors.  I  used  to  open  ten  cases  at  home  before  I  found  what 
I  wanted,  so  I  am  insuring  against  that." 

Talk  and  laughter  shortened  the  afternoon,  but  at  five  o'clock 
Bettina  wheeled  out  her  tea-cart  again.  The  dainty  luncheon 
was  decorated  with  nasturtiums.  The  girls  laid  aside  their 
work  while  Bettina  served: 

Sunbonnet  Baby  Salad  Nut  Bread  Sandwiches 

Iced  Tea  Mint  Wafers 

Lemon  Sherbet  Tea  Cakes 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Sunbonnet   Baby   Salad    (Ten   portions) 

10  halves  pears  lO  thin    slices   pimento 

20  cleaves,  w^hole  lo  T-salad  dressing 

20  almonds  lo  pieces  lettuce 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  71 

Arrange  the  halves  of  canned  pears,  round  side  up,  on 
\ettuce  leaves,  which  curl  closely  about  the  pear  and  have  the 
effect  of  a  hood.  Place  cloves  in  the  pear  for  eyes,  blanched 
almonds  for  ears,  and  slip  thin  slices  of  canned  pimento  into 
cuts  made  for  nose  and  mouth.  The  expressions  may  be  varied. 
Put  salad  dressing  around  the  outside  of  the  pear  to  repre- 
sent hair  and  arrange  a  bow  of  red  pimento  under  the  chin  of 
the  sunbonnet  baby.  These  salads  are  very  effective  and  easy 
to  make. 

Nut  Bread  (Twenty-four  sandwiches) 

iK  C-graham   flour  2  t-salt 

2  C-white  flour  i^  C-milk 

4  t-baking  powder  2/3  C-chopped  nut  meats,  dates 

I  C-"C"  sugar  or  raisins 

Sift  together  all  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  nut  meats  and 
fruit.  Add  the  milk.  Stir  well,  and  pour  into  two  well- 
buttered  loaf  pans.  Allow  to  stand  and  rise  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Use 
bread  twenty-four  hours  old  for  the  sandwiches.  "C"  sugar  is 
light  brown  sugar  and  gives  food  a  delicious  flavor. 

Lemon  Sherbet  (Ten  portions) 

4  C-water  ^4  C-lemon  juice 

2  C-sugar  I  egg  white 

Boil  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes.  Cool,  add  lemon  Juice 
and  strain.  Freeze,  and  when  nearly  stiff,  add  beaten  egg 
White  and  finish  freezing. 

Icing  (White  Mountain  Cream) 

2  C-sugar  2  egg  whites 

^2  C-water  14  t-lemon  extract 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  it  threads 
when  dropped  from  the  spoon.  Pour  slowly  into  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  stiffly.  Beat  until  it  holds  its  shape.  Add 
the  flavoring  and  spread  on  the  cake. 

Bettina's  Suggestions 
Arrange  the  sunbonnet  babies  on  a  salad  platter,  and  let  the 


72     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

guests  help  themselves.  The  salad  is  light  and  attractive.  The 
stem  end  of  the  pear  represents  the  neck.  Cream  the  butter 
to  be  used  for  sandwiches.  It  spreads  more  evenly  and  goes 
farther.  Sandwiches  taste  better  if  allowed  to  stand  for  sev- 
eral hours,  wrapped  securely  in  a  napkin  which  has  been  well 
dampened  (not  wet).  Cut  the  slices  very  thin  and  press  to- 
gether firmly.     Cut  into  fancy  shapes. 


CHAPTER   XIX 
BETTINA  AND  THE  EXPENSE  BUDGET 

(CO  UTH  asked  me  today  how  we  manage  our  finances," 

•"-  said  Bettina  over  the  dinner  table.  "She  said  that  she 
and  Fred  were  wondering  what  plan  was  best.  I'm  so  glad  I 
have  a  definite  household  allowance  and  that  we  have  bulgeted 
our  expenses  so  successfully.  The  other  day  I  was  reading  an 
article  by  Carolyn  Claymore  in  which  she  says  that  three- 
fourths  of  the  domestic  troubles  are  caused  by  disagreements 
about  money." 

"Then  we  haven't  much  to  quarrel  about,  have  we,  Betty? 
That  is  true  in  more  than  one  sense.  But  I'm  sure  that  this 
way  seems  to  suit  us  to  a  T." 

"I'm  even  saving  money.  Bob." 

"I  don't  see  how  you  can  when  you  give  me  such  good 
things  to  eat,  and  when  we  have  so  much  company." 

"Well,  I  plan  ahead,  you  know — plan  for  my  left-overs  be- 
fore they  are  left,  even.  I  do  think  that  an  instinct  for  buying 
and  planning  is  better  than  an  instinct  for  cooking.  And  either 
one  can  be  cultivated.  But  it  was  certainly  hard  to  get  that 
budget  of  expenses  fixed  satisfactorily,  wasn't  it  ?  I  told  Ruth 
that  no  two  families  are  alike,  and  thai  I  couldn't  tell  her  just 
what  they  ought  to  spend  for  clothes,  or  just  what  groceries 
ought  to  cost.  After  all,  it  is  an  individual  matter  which 
things  are  necessities  and  which  are  luxuries.  The  chief  thing 
is  to  live  within  your  means,  and  save  as  well  as  invest  some- 
thing— and  at  the  same  time  be  comfortable  and  happy.  I  told 
Ruth  we  started  with  the  fixed  sums  and  the  absolute  neces- 

71 


74     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

sities,  and  worked  backward.  I  told  her  they  must  absolutely 
be  saving  something,  if  only  a  quarter  a  week.  Then,  that 
Fred  must  manage  the  budget  of  expenses  that  comes  within 
his  realm,  and  not  interfere  with  hers,  and  that  she  must  do 
the  same  with  the  household  expenditures,  and  not  worry  him. 
It  takes  a  lot  of  adjusting  to  make  the  system  work  satisfac- 
torily, but  it  is  certainly  worth  it." 

"Did  you  tell  Ruth  about  the  envelope  system  that  my  sister 
Harriet,  uses  ?  She  says  she  is  so  careless  naturally  that  when 
George  gives  her  her  allowance  each  month,  she  has  to  put  the 
actual  cash  in  separate  envelopes,  and  then  vow  to  herself  that 
she  will  not  borrow  from  the  gas  money  to  make  the  change 
for  the  grocer-boy,  and  so  forth.  That  is  the  only  way  she 
can  teach  herself." 

"My  cousin's  wife  used  to  keep  the  most  wonderful  and 
complete  accounts,  but  she  couldn't  tell  without  a  lot  of  work 
in  hunting  up  the  items  how  much  she  already  had  spent  for 
groceries  or  clothes  or  anything.  She  had  to  change  her 
method,  and  it  was  she  who  taught  me  to  keep  my  accounts  in 
parallel  columns,  a  page  for  a  week,  because  you  give  me  my 
allowance  each  week.  I  like  this  way  so  much,  for  I  can  tell 
at  a  glance  how  my  expenses  are  comparing  with  the  allotted 
sum." 

"I  like  to  look  at  your  funny,  neat  little  notebook,  Bettina, 
all  ruled  so  carefully  for  the  week,  and  the  headings,  such  as 
gas,  electricity,  groceries,  meat,  milk,  laundry,  across  the  top." 

"Don't  make  fun  of  my  notebook.  I  couldn't  keep  house 
without  it.  In  case  of  fire,  I'd  save  it  first  of  all,  I  know !  It 
is  almost  like  a  diary  to  me !  I  can  look  back  over  it  and 
remember,  'That  was  the  day  Bob  brought  Mr.  Green  home 
and  we  almost  ran  out  of  potatoes !'  Or  'This  was  the  day  I 
thought  my  brown  bread  had  failed,  but  Bob  seemed  to  like 
it !'  "  she  exaggerated. 

"Failures  in  cooking !  Why,  Bettina,  I  don't  know  the  mean- 
ing of  the  words !  And  I  don't  see  how  you  can  feed  me  so 
well  on  the  sum  I  give  you  for  the  purpose.  I'd  feel  guilty, 
only  you  don't  look  a  bit  unhappy  or  overworked." 

"I  should  say  not !" 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  75 

"You  surely  don't  remember  how  to  cook  all  the  things  you 
give  me !" 

"No,  indeed,  Bob,  not  definitely,  that  is.  You  see,  on  the 
shelf  by  my  account  book,  which  you  smile  over,  I  have  my 
card  index  with  lots  and  lots  of  recipes  filed  away.  Then  I 
have  notebooks,  too,  with  all  sorts  of  suggestions  tucked  in 
them  just  where  I  can  lay  my  hand  on  them." 

"Betty  dear,  you've  given  me  a  real  glimpse  into  your  busi- 
ness-like methods !  Some  men  seem  to  think  that  it  doesn't 
take  brains  to  run  a  house  well,  but  they  don't  know.  It  re- 
quires just  as  much  executive  ability  and  common  sense  as  it 
does  to  manage  a  big  business." 

That  night  the  dinner  for  two  consisted  of : 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

Cold  Ham  Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Rice 

Light  Rolls  Peach  Butter 

Hot  Fudge  Cake 

CAll  measurements  are  level) 

Light  Rolls 

2  T-sugar  ^  C-flour 

^  t-salt  2  T-melted  butter 

J^  C-scalded  milk  i  egg,  well-beaten 

J^  yeast  cake  2  T-lukewarm  water 

flour 

Add  the  sugar  and  salt  to  the  scalded  milk  and  when  luke- 
warm, add  the  yeast  dissolved  in  the  lukewarm  water,  and 
three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  flour.  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  Then  add  the  melted  butter,  the  well-beaten  egg, 
and  enough  flour  to  knead.  Let  rise  in  a  warm  place.  Roll  to 
one-half  an  inch  in  thickness  and  shape  with  a  biscuit  cutter. 
Butter  the  top  of  each.  Fold  over,  place  in  a  buttered  pan, 
close  together.  Let  rise  again  for  forty-five  minutes  and  then 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Rice 

6  green   peppers  i  T-chopped  green  pepper 

I  C-white  sauce  3  onions  cooked  and  cut  fine 

H  C-cooked  rice  l^  t-paprika 


76     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Cut  the  stem  ends  from  the  peppers,  and  remove  all  seeds ; 
add  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  each  pepper,  fill 
with  water  and  allow  to  stand  one-half  hour.  Mix  one  cup  of 
white  sauce  with  the  rice,  onions,  chopped  pepper  and  paprika. 
Fill  the  pepper  cases  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Hot  Fudge  Cake 

1/3  C-butter  5^  C-hot  water 

1  C-sugar  2  C-flour 

2  egg  yolks  i  t-cinnamon 
2  squares  (or  ounces)  of  choc-     i  t-soda 

elate,  melted  i  t-baking  powder 

Yi  C-molasses  Ya  t-salt 

Y2  C-sour   milk  i  t-vanilla 

2  egg  whites 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  continue  creaming.  Add 
the  egg  yolks,  melted  chocolate,  molasses,  sour  milk,  hot  water, 
flour,  cinnamon,  soda,  baking  powder,  salt  and  vanilla.  Beat 
two  minutes,  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Fill  well- 
buttered  muffin  pans  one-half  full,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  hot  as  a  dessert,  with  whipped 
cream. 


CHAPTER    XX 
MRS.   DIXON   AND   BETTINA'S  EXPERIMENT 

^^T'M  so  happy!"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  as  she  stopped  at  Bet- 

-■-  tina's  door  one  cool  morning.  "But  I'm  nervous,  too! 
What  if  Frank  shouldn't  like  it?" 

"Oh,  but  he  will!"  Bettina  assured  her.  "He'll  think  he's 
the  luckiest  man  in  town,  and  I  almost  believe  that  he  is  !  He'll 
love  that  dear  little  white  house  with  the  screened  porch  !  Why, 
the  very  grass  looks  as  if  it  longed  to  spell  'Welcome'  like 
some  of  the  door  mats  I've  seen !  And  think  of  the  flower 
boxes!  You  were  very  fortunate  to  rent  it  for  a  year,  fur- 
nished so  nicely,  and  probably  when  that  time  is  up  you'll  be 
ready  to  build  or  buy  one  of  your  own." 

"You  are  a  dear  to  cheer  me  up  this  way,  but  I'm  nervous  in 
spite  of  you.  Perhaps  I  should  have  consulted  Frank  before 
I  promised  to  take  the  house." 

"But  he  has  been  urging  you  to  keep  house  for  so  long! 
And  I  know  he'll  be  grateful  to  you  for  sparing  him  the  worry 
of  hunting  one  himself.     Besides,  he'll  like  being  surprised." 

"Well,  I'll  go  back  to  the  hotel  for  luncheon  with  him,  and 
then  I'll  phone  him  later  to  meet  me  at  the  house.  I  won't 
tell  him  a  thing;  I'll  just  give  him  the  address.  I'll  say  it's 
very,  very  important.  That  will  surprise  him  and  perhaps  will 
frighten  him  a  little.  He  never  does  leave  his  office  during 
business  hours,  but  it  will  take  only  a  few  minutes  for  him  to 
run  out  here  in  the  car.  Goodness,  I'm  forgetting  what  I  came 
for!  Do  you  suppose  I  am  too  stupid  to  try  to  make  those 
Spanish  buns  Frank  liked  so  much?  We  had  them  at  the 
picnic,  you  know.  I  have  three  hours  after  luncheon  until  he 
comes,  and  I  just  long  to  give  him  some  good  coffee  and  some 

17 


78     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Spanish  buns  that  I've  made  myself !  That  little  kitchen  looks 
as  if  it  would  be  so  nice  to  work  in !  I  tried  coffee  a  little 
while  ago  over  at  the  house,  and  really — it  was  fine !  It  looked 
just  like  yours !  I  was  so  surprised !  To  think  of  my  doing 
such  things !" 

"Of  course  you  could  make  Spanish  buns ;  it  would  be  fine 
if  you  would.  I'll  tell  you, — why  not  let  me  come  over  for  an 
hour  right  after  luncheon  and  superintend?  Then  I'll  slip 
home  so  that  you  can  be  alone  when  Frank  comes.  I  could 
tell  you  some  other  things  about  cooking  while  we're  there 
together, — things  you  may  write  down  in  your  new  notebook. 
For  example,  I've  often  wondered  that  so  few  housekeepers 
can  make  good  white  sauce." 

"What  in  the  world  is  that  ?" 

"It's  used  in  cream  soups,  and  it's  the  cream  part  of  creamed 
vegetables  and  meat  and  fish,  and  then  there  is  a  thicker  white 
sauce  that  is  used  to  bind  croquettes — that  is,  hold  the  ingre- 
dients together.  There  are  really  four  kinds  of  white  sauces 
and  they  are  very  simple  to  make.  I  think  everyone  should 
know  the  right  way  to  make  them,  for  they  are  useful  in 
preparing  so  many  good  things." 

"I'm  glad  we'll  be  near  you  because  I  can  ask  you  so  many 
questions." 

"And  I'm  glad  that  it  is  summer,  because  you  can  have  so 
many  things  that  require  little  or  no  cooking,  and  by  fall,  I'm 
sure  you  will  be  an  accomplished  housekeeper." 

"Will  you  come  over  at  two,  then,  or  earlier  if  you  can?" 

"Of  course  I  will !" 

And  as  Mrs.  Dixon  hurried  away  Bettina  felt  a  sympathetic 
thrill  at  the  happiness  two  other  people  were  about  to  find. 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Spanish  Buns  (Twelve  Buns) 

J4  C-butter  3  t-baking  powder 

I  C-sugar  I  t-cinnamon 

I  egg-yolk  %  t-powdered    cloves 

5^  C-milk  I  egg-white  beaten  stiffly 

1^  C-flour  I  t-vanilla 

y2  C-currants 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  79 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  egg  yolk.  Mix  and 
sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  add  these 
and  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Beat  one  minute.  Add  the 
vanilla  and  the  stiffly  beaten  ^gg  white.  Bake  in  well  buttered 
muffin  pans  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Ice  with  con- 
fectioner's icing. 

Confectioner's  Icing  (Twelve  portions) 

3  T-cream  i  t-vanilla 

I  C-powdered  sugar 

Mix  the  cream  and  vanilla,  add  sugar  slowly  until  the  con- 
sistency to  spread  (more  sugar  may  be  needed).  This  is  a 
most  satisfactory  frosting  and  is  easily  and  quickly  made.  It 
is  suitable  for  hot  weather. 

White  Sauces  (Four  portions) 
X — Soup 

1  T-flour  I  C-liquid 
X  T-butter                   14  t-salt 

This  is  the  consistency  for  creamed  soups. 

a — Vegetable  Sauce 

2  T-butter  i  C-milk 
2  T-flour                       Ya  t-salt 

This  white  sauce  is  used  for  creamed  vegetables,  creamed 
fish,  etc.     This  amount  is  required  for  two  cups  of  vegetables. 

3 — Pattie  Sauce 

3  T-butter  i  C-milk 

3  T-flour  1/3  t-salt 

This  sauce  is  used  for  oyster  or  other  patties. 

4 — Croquette  Sauce 

3  T-butter  i  C-milk 

4  T-flour  x/3  t-salt 

This  is  called  a  binding  white  sauce  and  is  used  to  hold  other 
ingredients  together. 


80    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Method  of  Preparing  White  Sauces 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  flour  and  salt, 
stirring  constantly.  When  well  mixed  add  the  liquid,  a  little 
at  a  time.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  This  is  far 
better  than  mixing  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  liquid  when 
cold,  as  so  many  people  do  when  creaming  potatoes  or  other 
things.  If  the  white  sauce  seems  too  thick  for  the  purpose, 
thin  with  a  little  more  liquid  before  removing  from  the  fire. 


CHAPTER    XXI 
A    RAINY-DAY    DINNER 

THE  rain  had  been  falling  all  day  in  a  heavy  downpour, 
and  Bettina  had  ventured  out  only  to  gather  some  red 
clover  blooms  for  the  porch  table,  which  she  was  now  setting 
for  dinner.  In  spite  of  the  rain,  it  was  not  cold,  and  she  liked 
the  contrast  of  the  cheerful  little  table,  with  its  white  cloth  and 
bright  silver,  and  the  gray  day  just  outside  the  screen. 

"If  Bob  would  only  come  home  early,  how  nice  it  would  be  !'* 
she  thought.     "Perhaps  that's  he  at  the  telephone  now." 

However,  it  proved  to  be  Mrs.  Dixon.  "I  phoned  to  ask 
you  if  I  should  throw  away  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  I've  just 
used  the  whites." 

"Oh,  no,  Mrs.  Dixon !  Beat  them  up  well,  and  add  a  little 
cold  water  to  them.  Then  set  them  in  the  ice-box.  They 
will  be  just  as  good  later  as  they  would  be  now.  You  may 
want  them  for  salad  dressing  or  something  else." 

"If  I  ever  have  the  white  of  the  egg  left,  shall  I  treat  that 
the  same  way?" 

"No,  don't  beat  that  up  at  all,  nor  add  any  water.  Just  set 
it  in  the  refrigerator  as  it  is.  I'm  so  glad  you  called  up,  Mrs. 
Dixon.  Will  you  and  your  husband  take  dinner  with  us  next 
Sunday  ?     Perhaps  we  might  all  go  to  church  first." 

"We'd  love  to  do  that !  I've  just  been  worrying  over  Sun- 
day dinner,  and  youVe  restored  my  peace  of  mind.  But  won't 
it  be  a  great  deal  of  work  for  you?" 

"I  won't  let  it  be.  I  don't  believe  in  those  heavy,  elaborate 
Sunday  dinners  that  take  all  the  morning  to  prepare.  We'll 
just  come  home  from  church  and  have  it  in  half  an  hour.  You 
may  help  me." 

8i 


82     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"We'd  love  to  come.  I  have  so  much  to  tell  you.  IVe  been 
very  busy,  but  Frank  has  helped,  and  it  has  been  such  fun! 
You  don't  know  how  he  enjoys  the  little  house!  Well,  good- 
bye till  tomorrow  I" 

"Boo  I"  shouted  Bob  in  her  ear,  as  she  hung  up  the  receiver. 
"I  discovered  your  dark  secret  this  morning!  Frank  Dixon 
told  me !" 

"Well,  what  did  you  think  of  it?" 

"The  only  possible  solution  in  that  case.  You  are  their  good 
angel — that  is,  if  she  doesn't  poison  Frank  with  her  cooking, 
or  burn  the  house  down  when  she's  lighting  the  fire." 

"She  won't,  don't  worry !  She  takes  to  housekeeping  as  if 
she  had  always  done  it.  Her  house  is  immaculate;  she  has 
been  cleaning  and  dusting  and  polishing  from  morning  to  night. 
I'm  almost  ashamed  of  mine  !'* 

"I'm  not  ["  said  Bob,  decidedly.  "I  don't  see  how  you  can 
keep  it  clean  at  all  with  a  man  like  me  scattering  papers  and 
cigar  ashes  everywhere.  And  I'm  always  losing  my  belong- 
ings, and  always  will,  I  suppose." 

"That's  only  a  sign  that  we  haven't  discovered  the  proper 
place  for  them  all  yet.  But  we'll  work  it  out  in  time.  Well, 
are  you  hungry  ?" 

"Hungry  ?    I  should  say  so !    Why,  I  could  almost  eat  you !" 

"Well,  Bob,  we  have  a  rainy-day  dinner  tonight  that  I  hope 
you'll  enjoy.     Hash!     Does  that  frighten  you?" 

"Not  your  hash,  Betty." 

"Well,  everything  is  ready." 

The  rainy  evening  menu  consisted  of : 

Browned   Hash  Creamed  Cauliflower 

Date    Muffins  Butter 

Apple  Sauce  Cake  Chocolate 

BETTINA*S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Browned  Hash  (Two  portions) 

I  C-cfcopped  cold  cooked  beef  %  t-pepper 
I  C-cold  boiled  potatoes  diced        i  T-milk 

a  few  drops  of  onion  juice        i  T-fat    (lard,    butter    or    onc- 
2/3  t-salt  half  of  each) 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  83 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly.  Spread  the  mixture 
evenly  in  a  hot  frying-pan  in  which  the  fat  has  been  placed. 
Cook  without  stirring  until  a  crust  is  formed  on  the  bottom; 
fold  over  like  an  omelet  and  place  on  a  hot  platter. 

Creamed  Cauliflower  (Two  portions) 

I  head  cauliflower  i  t-salt 

4  C-water  i  C-vegetable  white  sauce 

Separate  cauliflower  into  sections,  wash  well  and  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  (About  half  an  hour.)  Drain 
and  cover  with  vegetable  white  sauce. 

Date  Muffins  (Ten  mufiins) 

%  C-sugar  ^  C-milk 

%  C-dates  cut  fine  if^  C-flour 
I  ^s^  4  t-baking  powder 

Va  t-salt  2  T-butter   (melted) 

Mix  the  sugar,  dates,  baking  powder,  flour  and  salt.  Add 
milk  in  which  one  tgg  has  been  beaten.  Beat  two  minutes. 
Add  butter,  melted.  Fill  well-buttered  muflin  pans  half  full 
of  the  mixture,  and  place  in  the  oven.  Bake  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake   (Ten  portions) 


Yi  C-buttcr 

Yt  t-powdered  cloves 

I  C-sugar 

I  C-hot,  thick,  strained,  sweet- 

I egg,  beaten  light 

ened  apple  sauce 

iYa  C-flour 

I  C-mixed,  chopped  raisins,  nut 

I  t-soda 

meats  and  dates 

iH  t-cinnamon 

I  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually.  Stir  well.  Add 
the  well-beaten  ^gg.  Mix  the  soda  and  apple-sauce,  and  add 
to  the  first  ingredients.  Alternately  with  the  flour  and  spices, 
add  the  vanilla  and  fruit.  Beat  for  two  minutes.  Turn  into 
a  square  pan,  and  sift  granulated  sugar  over  the  top.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  one-half  hour. 


CHAPTER   XXII 
BUYING  A  REFRIGERATOR 

•  ^QOMETHING  in  refrigerators?"  said  the  clerk  politely 

*^  to  Mrs.  Dixon  and  Bettina. 

"You  talk  to  him,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon.  *T  don't  know  a  thing 
about  a  refrigerator ;  that's  why  I  begged  you  to  come." 

"Well,"  considered  Bettina,  her  red  brown  head  on  one 
side,  "we  want  one  that  will  hold  not  less  than  a  hundred 
pounds  of  ice.  The  large  ones  are  much  more  economical  in 
the  long  run.  Here,  Mrs.  Dixon,  is  a  hundred-pound  fellow. 
May  we  examine  it,  please?" 

"Certainly,  madam." 

"No,  this  won't  do.  See,  Mrs.  Dixon,  the  trap  is  in  the 
bottom  of  the  food  chamber.  That  is  wasteful  and  incon- 
venient, because  in  cleaning  it  you  would  have  to  leave  the 
door  of  the  larger  compartment  open.  That  would  let  the 
cold  air  out  and  waste  the  ice.  Anyhow,  you  know  the  trap 
is  the  sewer  of  the  refrigerator,  and  has  no  business  in  the  food 
chamber.  The  trap  really  ought  to  be  in  the  bottom  of  the  ice 
chamber,  where  it  can  be  cleaned  without  removing  the  food, 
or  opening  the  door  of  the  food  compartment.  Besides,  I 
prefer  to  have  the  ice  put  in  at  a  door  on  the  side  of  the  front, 
not  on  the  top.  Yes,  here  is  the  kind  I  mean.  I  like  this  trap, 
too.  See,  Mrs.  Dixon,  isn't  it  fine?  It  has  a  white  enamel 
lining  and  shelves  of  open  wire  that  can  be  removed.'* 

"It  looks  nice,  doesn't  it  ?  And  when  I  get  some  white  shelf 
paper  on  those  shelves  it  will  be  like  an  attractive  cupboard." 

"Oh,  my  dear !  You  mustn't  do  that !  That  would  prevent 
the  circulation  of  air  through  the  ice-box,  which  is  the  very 

84 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  85 

thing  that  makes  the  food  compartment  cold.  You  see,  that 
circulation  of  air  goes  on  through  these  open- wire  shelves. 
Another  thing,  I've  seen  people  cover  the  ice  with  news- 
papers to  keep  it  from  melting,  as  they  thought.  But  they 
were  mistaken.  Any  friction  causes  warmth,  and  ice  keeps 
better  when  there  is  nothing  touching  it." 

"Well,  if  you  like  this  one,  I'll  ask  the  price  of  it.'* 

"It  will  be  expensive,  I'm  afraid,  but  the  most  economical  in 
the  long  run.     Are  you  staying  downtown  to  meet  Mr.  Dixon  ?" 

"Yes,  I'd  like  him  to  see  the  refrigerator.  He  takes  such  an 
interest  in  these  household  things  I'm  getting." 

"Well,  good-bye,  dear.  I  must  hurry  home  to  get  dinner. 
It  won't  take  long,  but  I'll  have  to  go,  or  Bob  will  get  there 
first,  and  I'm  a  little  sentimental  about  being  there  to  greet 
him  at  the  door." 

Bettina's  dinner  that  night  consisted  of : 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops 

Boiled  New  Potatoes  New  Peas  in  Cream 

Vegetable  Salad 

Bread  Butter 

Rhubarb  Pudding 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops   (Three  portions) 

3  chops  I  t-salt 

Wipe  chops  and  place  in  a  red-hot  frying-pan.  As  soon  as 
the  under  surface  is  seared,  turn  and  sear  the  other  side.  Turn 
down  the  fire  a  little,  and  continue  to  cook,  turning  chops 
often.  Cook  seven  minutes  if  liked  rare.  When  cooked, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  spread  with  butter. 

Creamed   New  Peas    (Three  portions) 

I  qt.  peas  H  t-soda 

^  t-salt 

Shell  one  quart  of  peas,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  stand 
ten  minutes,  wash  well,  and  drain  off  the  water.  Cover  with 
boiled  water  and  cook  twenty  to  fifty  minutes,  according  to  age 


86     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

of  peas.  A  pinch  of  soda  may  be  added  to  the  water.  It  soft- 
ens the  skins  on  the  peas.  Add  salt  when  the  peas  have  cooked 
twenty  minutes. 

White  Sauce  for  Peas  (Three  portions) 

I  T-butter  Vs  t-salt 

I  T-flour  1/2  C-milk 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  mixing  well,  and  the 
milk,  stirring  constantly.     Cook  two  minutes.     Add  the  peas. 

Rhubarb  Pudding  (Three  portions) 


I 

2 

C-cooked, 

sauce 
T-flour 

sweetened 

rhubarb 

I  T-cold  water 
I  egg-white 
^A  t-salt 

Add  the  water  slowly  to  the  flour  and  mix  well.  Add  the 
rhubarb  sauce  and  cook  until  very  thick  (about  five  minutes). 
Add  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg,  mix  thoroughly  and  turn 
into  moistened  moulds.    Serve  cold  with  cream. 


CHAPTER   XXIII 

BETTINA'S  SUNDAY  DINNER 

^^^TpHIS  seems  like  old  times!"  remarked  Mr.  Dixon,  as  he 
-^  and  his  wife  strolled  leisurely  home  from  church  with 
Bob  and  Bettina.  "I  haven't  had  this  peaceful  Sunday  feeling 
since  I  was  a  youngster.  Then  all  the  Sundays  were  like  this, 
cool,  quiet  and  sunny — sprinkled  all  over  with  little  girls  in 
♦«iooth  curls  and  white  leghorn  hats,  and  little  boys  in  uncom- 
fortable, hot  clothes  a  size  too  large,  and  newly  polished  shoes. 
I  often  recall  the  plentiful  Sunday  dinners,  too !" 

"Don't  get  your  hopes  too  high !"  said  Bettina.  "Though  I 
will  promise  you  one  treat,  wild  roses  on  the  table.  Bob  and  I 
walked  out  into  the  country  last  evening  and  found  them." 

"What  can  I  do  ?"  inquired  Mrs.  Dixon,  when  she  and  Bet- 
tina were  alone  in  the  kitchen. 

"You  can  sit  here  and  talk  to  me  while  these  potatoes  are 
cooking  and  the  veal  birds  getting  done.  You  see,  the  birds 
have  already  cooked  three-quarters  of  an  hour  this  morning 
before  I  went  to  church.  The  waxed  beans  are  in  the  fireless 
cooker;  I  have  to  make  the  butter  sauce  for  them.  And  you 
see  I  have  the  new  potatoes  all  prepared,  standing  in  cold 
water.  I  have  only  to  cook  them  in  boiling  salted  water  till 
they  are  done.  That  won't  take  long,  as  they  aren't  large.  I 
set  the  table  on  the  porch  this  morning.  Bob  can  make  the 
coffee  in  the  percolator  in  a  little  while,  when  we're  ready. 
He  usually  starts  it  when  we  come  to  the  table,  and  then  it  is 
ready  in  time  to  serve  last.  By  the  way,  if  you  like  the  Thou- 
sand Island  dressing  we  are  to  have  for  the  head  lettuce,  I'd 
like  to  give  you  the  recipe.     It  is  a  very  popular  one  just  now." 

87 


88     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Oh,  I've  eaten  it!  Frank  is  very  fond  of  it,  and  used  to 
order  it  every  chance  he  had  at  the  hotel.  Will  you  really 
tell  me  how  to  make  it  ?  So  many  good  dinners  now  end  with 
the  salad  and  cheese  and  coffee,  and  I  think  Thousand  Island 
dressing  on  head  lettuce  makes  a  splendid  salad." 

"Of  course  I'll  show  you.  Well,  the  iced  cantaloupe,  which 
is  our  first  course,  is  in  the  ice-box.  Our  dessert  today  is  just 
cake  with  chocolate  cream  frosting,  and  coffee.  It  is  such  a 
simple  Sunday  dinner,  but  that's  the  kind  I  believe  in!" 

BETTINA'S  SUNDAY  DINNER 

Iced  Cantaloupe 
Veal  Birds  Boiled  New  Potatoes 

Gravy- 
Waxed  Beans  Butter  Sauce 
Bread  Butter 
Head  Lettuce           Thousand   Island   Dressing 
Salt  Wafers 
Cake  with  Chocolate  Cream  Frosting 
Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Veal  Birds  (Six  portions) 


iH  lb.  veal  steak 

H  t-salt 

4  slices  bacon 

%  t-paprika 

I  T-butter 

2  T-milk 

1/2  C-crumbs,  fresh 

2  T-fat 

Cut  veal  from  the  round  (veal  steak)  into  strips,  four  by 
two  and  a  half  inches.  Put  the  trimming  and  four  slices  of 
bacon  through  the  food  chopper.  Cook  the  chopped  meat  three 
minutes  in  the  butter.  Add  to  this  the  fresh  bread  crumbs, 
salt,  pepper  and  milk.  Spread  this  mixture  on  the  strips  of 
veal.  Roll  and  tie  securely  with  white  cord,  roll  in  flour  and 
saute  until  browned  a  little  on  both  sides,  in  two  tablespoons 
fat  in  frying  pan.  Place  in  a  casserole  or  small  covered  pan. 
Season  each  bird  with  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Pour 
an  inch  and  a  half  of  water  into  the  pan.  Cook  an  hour,  or  a 
little  less,  in  a  moderate  oven.  Gravy  may  be  made  by  adding 
four  tablespoons  of  water  to  two  level  tablespoons  of  flour. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  89 

mixing  carefully  and  gradually  pouring  into  the  stock  in  which 
the  meat  has  been  cooked.     Bring  to  a  boil. 

Thousand  Island  Salad  Dressing  (Six  portions) 

J4  C-olive  oil  %  t-salt 

2  T-lemon  juice  ^  t-paprika 

2  T-orange    juice  i  t-Worcestershire  sauce 

I  t-onion  juice  ^  t-mustard 

I  t-chopped  parsley 

Place  all  the  above  ingredients  in  a  pint  fruit  jar,  fit  a  rubber 
on  the  jar  cover,  and  shake  vigorously  until  the  dressing  is 
well  mixed  and  creamy.  Pour  over  tomatoes,  asparagus,  peas, 
beans,  spinach  or  lettuce.     Serve  as  a  salad. 

Cake  with  Chocolate  Cream  Filling   (Six  portions) 

y2  C-butter  2  t-baking  powder 

I  C-sugar  J4  t-mace 

I  beaten  eg,^  yolk  J^  t-vanilla 

lYz  C-sifted  flour  V2  C-milk 

I  egg-white,  stiffly  beaten 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  yolk  of  egg,  dry  ingre- 
dients and  milk.  Stir  well,  add  the  flavoring,  beat  two  min- 
utes, cut  and  fold  in  the  egg  white.  Bake  in  a  large  round 
buttered  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  The  pan 
should  be  seven  inches  in  diameter.  Cover  with  confectioner's 
icing. 

Confectioner's  Icing 

2  C-powdered  sugar  i  t-vanilla 

3  T-milk  12  chocolate  creams 

Mix  vanilla  and  milk,  add  powdered  sugar.  Mix  until  stiff 
enough  to  spread.  Cut  creams  in  half  and  arrange  on  the 
cake. 


CHAPTER   XXIV 
BETTINA   VISITS   A   TEA-ROOM 

^^  A  RENT  you  a  bit  timid  about  driving?"  asked  Bettina, 

-^^  as  she  stepped  into  the  car  beside  Mrs.  Dixon. 

"Not  now.  You  see,  I've  been  practicing  every  evening  with 
Frank,  and  he  says  that  I  am  as  good  a  driver  as  he  is !  Oh, 
Betfina,  we  are  having  so  much  fun  these  days!  The  Httle 
house  is  a  great  success,  and  I'm  really  learning  to  cook! 
I've  had  some  dreadful  failures;  but  Frank  doesn't  seem  to 
mind.  You  see,  I  know  he  gets  a  good  meal  downtown  at 
noon,  and  so  I  don't  worry  about  him." 

"Look,  Charlotte !  What  lovely  goldenrod !  We  must  stop 
and  get  some !    Don't  you  love  it  ?" 

"Indeed  I  do!  I  have  a  rough  brown  waste-paper  basket 
that  it  looks  stunning  in.  I  set  the  jar  of  goldenrod  right 
inside !     Frank  is  very  fond  of  it." 

"Charlotte,  you're  just  like  a  bride  yourself — thinking  about 
Frank's  likes  and  dislikes." 

"Am  I?"  laughed  Mrs.  Dixon  as  her  color  rose.  "Well, 
lately  Frank  seems  just  like  his  old  self!  He  appreciates 
everything  so,  and  is  so  nice  at  home !  And  it  seems  that  he 
can  hardly  get  home  quickly  enough!  We  have  enjoyed  get- 
ting things  settled  and  planning  our  future.  Next  year  we  may 
build  a  house  of  our  own,  but  I  don't  care  to  have  it  too  large 
to  manage  easily." 

"Are  you  going  to  stop  here  ?"  asked  Bettina,  as  Mrs.  Dixon 
slowed  down  after  a  peaceful  stretch  of  level  road. 

"Yes,  I  want  to  show  you  something." 

90 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  91 

A  short  path  led  to  a  small  house  close  to  the  road,  but 
almost  hidden  in  a  tangle  of  flowers  and  wild  grapevines. 

"Isn't  this  a  cunning  little  rustic  place?"  asked  Charlotte. 
"Two  friends  of  mine  started  it.  See"  (pointing  to  the  sign 
over  the  door),  "it's  called  The  Friendly  Inn.'  Inside  you'll 
find  that  quotation  about  living  in  a  house  at  the  side  of  tlie 
road  and  being  a  friend  to  every  man.  You  know  that  one. 
These  girls  live  on  that  farm  over  there.  When  they  came 
home  from  college  they  wanted  something  to  do — some  way 
to  earn  money — but  they  didn't  care  to  leave  home.  This  is 
such  a  splendid  road  that  the  autos  swarm  past  all  summer 
long.  These  girls  opened  this  little  tea  room,  and  serve  lunch- 
eons and  tea  here  all  summer.  Most  of  their  supplies  come 
directly  from  the  farm.  It  is  just  a  pleasant  drive  from  the 
city,  and  many  people  like  to  come  out  here  in  the  afternoon. 
I'll  introduce  you  to  the  girls.'* 

Bettina  found  the  inn-keepers  charming,  and  after  a  short 
conversation,  she  and  Mrs.  Dixon  ordered : 

Tomato   Cup   Salad  Iced  Tea 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  Chocolate  Sauce 

Marshmallow  Cakes 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Tomato  Cup  Salad  (Six  portions) 

6  tomatoes  I  T-chopped  onion 

I  C-diced  cucumbers  i  t-salt 

%  C-chopped  green  peppers  %  t-paprika 

54  C-sliced  radishes  6  T-salad  dressing 

Wash  cold  firm  tomatoes  of  a  uniform  size.  Cut  a  slice 
from  the  stem  end  and  scoop  out  seeds  and  pulp.  Save  the 
pulp.  Sprinkle  the  inside  with  salt.  Invert  for  five  minutes. 
Mix  the  cucumber,  green  pepper,  radishes,  onions,  tomato  pulp, 
and  salad  dressing.  Fill  with  the  mixture  and  refill  the  shells. 
Have  all  of  the  ingredients  cold  and  serve  at  once.  If  the 
mixture  stands  in  the  tomato  cups  very  long  it  becomes  watery. 
The  tomatoes  may  be  prepared  and  kept  cool,  and  the  mixture 


92     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

prepared,  all  but  the  onion,  and  placed  in  the  ice-box  until 
ready  for  use.  Never  put  anything  containing  onion  in  the 
ice-box.     Serve  the  tomatoes  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Chocolate  Sauce  for  the  Ice  Cream  (Six  portions) 

I  C-sugar  2  T-flour 

I   square  of  chocolate  i  t-butter 

%  t-salt  I  t-vanilla 

2  C-boiling  water 

Mix  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Add  the  square  of  choco- 
late and  boiling  water.  Allow  to  boil  four  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  the  butter  and  vanilla.  Serve  hot  or  cold 
with  ice  cream. 

Marshmallow  Cake 

Use  any  white  cake  recipe.  Bake  in  gem  pans.  Cover  with 
White  Mountain  cream  icing.  Just  before  the  icing  is  ready 
to  spread,  add  quartered  marshmallows.  Do  not  add  the 
marshmallows  while  the  icing  is  hot,  as  they  will  melt,  and  the 
little  "bumps"  are  attractive  when  spread  on  the  cake. 


CHAPTER   XXV 
BETTINA  ENTERTAINS  ALICE  AND  MR.  HARRISON 

^^"R  Y  the  way,  Bettina/'  said  Bob,  over  the  phone,  "I  saw 

•*-^  Harrison  and  asked  him  out  to  dinner  tonight.  He 
said  he  was  to  call  on  Alice  later,  so  I  suggest  that  you  invite 
her,  too." 

Bettina  smiled  to  herself  at  Bob's  casual  tone.  Ought  she 
to  ask  him  not  to   invite  company   without  consulting  her? 

"No !"  she  decided  emphatically.  "Company  or  no  com- 
pany, our  meals  shall  be  simple,  but  good  enough  for  anybody. 
I'll  not  change  my  menu  for  Alice  and  Mr.  Harrison.  I'm 
sure  they'll  like  it  just  as  it  is." 

"To  tell  the  truth,  Bettina,"  said  Alice's  vivacious  voice 
over  the  telephone,  "I'd  love  to  come,  if  it  weren't  for  that — 
that  man !" 

"But,  Alice,  you're  going  to  see  him  later." 

"I  know ;  worse  luck !  He's  the  most  insufferable  person  I 
know !  You  see,  last  night  we  had  a  little  argument,  and  he 
was  very  rude." 

"Maybe  he's  coming  to  apologize." 

"Don't  you  imagine  it !  He  couldn't.  He  dislikes  society 
girls  above  all  other  people." 

"Oh,  Alice !" 

"Well,  he  does !  He  told  me  so  evening  before  last,  out  at 
the  park." 

"Seems  to  me  you're  seeing  a  good  deal  of  him  for  a  man 
you  feel  that  way  about." 

"Well,  you  started  it.  You  told  me  that  he  was  a  woman- 
hater,  and  I  thought  it  would  be  fun  to  reform  him.    At  first 

93 


94     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

he  thought  me  fine  and  sensible,  but  lately  I've  been  showing 
him  how  frivolous  I  really  am.  I  suppose  I  hoped  that  by 
this  time  he'd  approve  of  everything  I  said  and  did.  But  he 
won't.  He  seems  actually  to  be  trying  to  reform  me!  And 
I  won't  be  reformed !  I  could  never  be  anything  but  frivolous 
Alice  if  I  wanted  to!  I  hate  those  big,  slow,  serious  men, 
without  any  fun  in  them !" 

"Cheer  up,  my  dear !"  laughed  Bettina.  "Come  tonight,  any- 
how.    I  like  the  frivolous  kind,  whether  he  does  or  not." 

That  evening,  much  to  Bettina's  secret  amusement,  Mr.  Har- 
rison and  Alice  met  on  the  doorstep. 

"Don't  think  we  came  together,"  explained  Alice,  flippantly. 
"A  dinner  and  an  evening  of  me  are  about  all  Mr.  Harrison 
can  endure !" 

"I  couldn't  have  spared  the  time,  anyhow.  Miss  Alice.  You 
see,  I'm  a  busy  man,  and  the  people  who  are  doing  worth- 
while things  in  this  world  are  obliged  to  overlook  some  of  the 
amenities." 

It  was  on  Bettina's  tongue  to  inquire  how  a  busy  man  found 
time  to  make  so  many  calls  as  he  was  making  now.  But  she 
refrained,  knowing  well  that  lively  Alice  could  hold  her  own 
with  any  man  in  the  universe,  even  though  she  might  not  be 
doing  the  things  that  Mr.  Harrison  considered  worth  while. 

"A  fine  dinner,"  said  he  to  Bettina,  as  they  sat  down  at  the 
table.  "I  admire  a  woman  who  knows  how  to  prepare  and 
serve  food.  She  is  paying  her  way  in  the  most  dignified  and 
worth-while  profession  of  all — that  of  a  home-maker." 

"Mr.  Harrison,"  asked  Alice  severely,  "may  I  inquire 
whether  or  not  you  know  how  to  drive  insects  out  of  cabbage 
before  serving  it?" 

"I'm  afraid  I  don't." 

"Well,  I'm  surprised,  for  even  I  know  that.  Bettina  just 
told  me.  You  place  the  cabbage,  head  downward,  in  cold 
water,  to  each  quart  of  which  has  been  added  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar." 

"Silly  Alice!"  said  Bettina.  "Don't  tease!  Look  at  my 
lovely  pansies.  Alice,  I  believe  you  g3ve  me  that  flower- 
holder  when  I  announced  my  engagement." 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  95 

"When  I  announce  my  engagement "  said  Alice. 

Bettina  saw  a  strange  and  startled  look  come  over  Mr.  Har- 
rison's face,  which  immediately  departed  when  Alice  added : 

"Which  will  be  years  hence,  no  doubt — I  hope  my  friends 
will  give  me  nothing  useful.  I  love  to  come  here,  Bettina,  but 
I'm  not  a  natural-born  housekeeper  like  you.  I  shall  marry 
an  idle  millionaire,  and  we  will  do  nothing  but  travel  aimlessly 
about  from  one  end  of  the  world  to  the  other.  That  is  my  idea 
of  perfect  happiness !" 

That  night  for  dinner  Bettina  served : 

Pork  Chops  Potatoes  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter 

Bread  Butter 

Cabbage   Salad   Served  in   Lemon   Halves 

Cocoanut   Blanc   Mange  Custard   Sauce 

Iced  Tea 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pork  Chops  (Four  portions) 

4  chops  J^  t-saJt 

%  C-water  34  t-pepper 

Wipe  the  chops,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  a 
hot  frying-pan  (no  fat  added),  brown  on  one  side  and  then 
turn  on  the  other  side,  cooking  over  a  moderate  fire.  Add  the 
water  and  immediately  place  the  cover  on  the  frying-pan.  The 
steam  cooks  the  pork  more  quickly  and  prevents  over-brown- 
ing.    Cook  twenty-five  minutes. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

3  T-butter  3^  t-salt 

I  T-lemon  juice  l4  t-pepper 

5^  t-parsley 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  pepper  and 
finely  chopped  parsley.  Pour  this  over  new  potatoes  which 
have  been  boiled.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Cocoanut  Blanc  Mange   (Four  portions) 

54  C-cornstarch  2  C-milk 

%  C-sugar  2/2  C-cocoanut 

>^  t-salt  2  egg  whites 

2  T-cold  water  J^  t-vanilla 


96     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  the  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt  with  the  cold  water.  Add 
the  milk  slowly,  stirring  well.  Cook  twenty  minutes  in  a  double 
boiler,  stirring  occasionally,  or  ten  minutes  over  the  flame, 
stirring  constantly.  Cool  slightly  and  add  the  shredded  cocoa- 
nut  and  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Add  the  vanilla. 
One-fourth  of  a  cup  of  nuts,  candied  cherries  or  preserved 
pineapple  may  be  added  if  desired.  Chill  in  moulds  wet  with 
cold  water.  Serve  with  cream  or  custard  sauce  made  from 
the  ^gg  yolks. 

Custard  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

2  egg  yolks  i  T-flour 

1/3  C-sugar  2  C-milk 

J/g  t-salt  I  t-vanilla 

Beat  the  eggs,  slowly  add  the  sugar  and  the  flour  well 
blended,  the  salt  and  the  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick  enough  to  coat  a  silver  spoon.  Add  the  flavoring  and 
serve  cold. 


CHAPTER  XXVI 
OVER  THE  TELEPHONE 

BOB  and  Bettina  were  at  breakfast  one  morning  when  the 
telephone  rang.  *Tt's  Mrs.  Dixon,  Bettina,"  said  Bob,  his 
hand  over  the  mouthpiece.  "Much  excited.  Panicky.  House 
afire.     Hurry." 

"Hello,  Charlotte!"  said  Bettina,  quickly.  "What  in  the 
world  is  the  trouble  ?" 

"The  worst  yet !"  came  a  nervous  voice.  "Frank's  Aunt 
Isabel  is  to  be  at  our  house  tonight !  Oh,  I  wish  you  knew 
her!     She  never  did  approve  of  me!" 

"Oh,  Charlotte,  you  just  imagine  that!  She  wouldn't  come 
if  she  disliked  you  so !" 

"That's  just  it!  She  didn't  approve  of  me  when  we  lived 
at  the  hotel,  and  now  that  we've  taken  a  house,  she  wants  to 
see  how  things  are." 

"Well,  things  are  fine  !     Doesn't  Frank  say  so  ?" 

"Yes,  of  course.  But  the  meals !  Two  company  meals  to 
get,  and  for  a  critical  person  like  her,  too !  What  on  earth 
shall  I  do?" 

"Now,  don't  be  nervous,  Charlotte !  It's  easy  !  We'll  think 
up  a  delicious  little  dinner  that  you  can  prepare  mostly  before- 
hand.    When  does  she  arrive?" 

"Five  o'clock,  and  leaves  just  after  breakfast." 

"Good !  Two  simple  meals  and  all  day  in  which  to  get  them 
ready.  Let's  see.  The  weather  is  warm,  so  you  will  prefer  a 
dinner  that  is  partly  cold.  Watermelon  that  has  been  in 
the  refrigerator  all  day  would  be  a  simple  dessert,  with  no 
cake  or  anything  else  to  think  of.     How  about  cold  boiled 

.Q7 


98     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

tongue  for  your  main  dish?  Sliced  thin  and  garnished  with 
parsley.  You  might  also  have  a  very  good  salad.  Apple,  cel- 
ery and  green  pepper  salad  would  be  delicious  and  economical 
also.  Then  you  might  have  corn  on  the  cob.  I've  had  it 
recently  and  know  how  good  it  is.  That  would  be  the  only 
thing  you  would  have  to  think  of  at  meal  time,  and  it  is  very 
easy  to  cook.  You  would  serve  it  in  a  napkin  to  keep  it  hot. 
Then  I  want  to  send  you  some  peach  butter  that  I  made  the 
other  day ;  that  would  go  beautifully  with  your  dinner.  There 
you  have  it  all !  If  I  were  doing  it,  I  should  add  iced  tea  to 
drink,  served  very  daintily,  with  sliced  lemon  and  mint  leaves." 
"Oh,  Bettina,  how  good  it  sounds!  Will  you  repeat  that 
menu  for  me?" 

Cold  Boiled  Tongue 

Apple,  Celery  and  Green  Pepper  Salad 

Golden   Bantam   Corn  on  the   Cob 

Bread  Butter  Peach   Butter 

Iced  Tea  Lemon 

Sliced   Watermelon 

"Now,  if  you'll  get  a  pencil  and  paper,  I  will  give  you  some 
directions  about  cooking." 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Boiled  Tongue  (Four  portions) 
A  fresh  beef  tongue  of  two  pounds  i  T-vinegar 

Wipe  the  tongue  well.  Place  in  a  kettle  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  Add  the  vinegar.  Bring  to  a  boil,  and  boil  slowly 
until  it  seems  tender  when  pierced  with  a  fork.  (It  should 
boil  at  least  two  hours.)  Take  the  tongue  from  the  water, 
and  remove  the  skin  and  roots  while  it  is  still  warm.  Cool, 
and  slice  thin.  This  may  easily  be  cooked  in  the  fireless  cooker, 
in  which  case  the  water  with  which  the  tongue  is  covered  must 
be  brought  to  a  good  boil  on  the  stove,  and  then  removed  to 
the  cooker.  If  the  tongue  is  very  salty,  soak  in  cold  water  for 
two  hours. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  99 

Apple,  Celery  and  Green  Pepper  Salad  (Four  portions) 

1  cup  tart  apples  cut  in  J/^-inch         i  large    green    pepper     (cut    in 
cubes  strips) 

2  T-lemon   juice  i  t-salt 
2/3  C-celery  (diced)                           ^  t-paprika 

6  T-salad  dressing 

Mix  the  lemon  juice  and  apples  to  prevent  discoloring. 
Add  the  celery,  green  peppers,  salt,  paprika  seasoning  and 
salad  dressing.     Serve  cold  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Corn  on  the  Cob   (Four  portions) 

8  ears  corn 

Carefully  remove  husks  and  all  silk  from  the  corn.  Cover 
with  boiling  water.  Cook  ten  minutes,  or  longer  if  the  corn 
is  old.  If  salt  is  added  to  water,  it  turns  the  corn  yellow  and 
toughens  the  husks.  Very  tender  young  corn  needs  little  cook- 
ing. Salt  may  be  added  (one  teaspoon  to  a  quart  of  water) 
two  minutes  before  removing  from  the  fire. 

Peach  Butter  (One  and  one-half  pints) 

2  C-peaches         i  C-sugar 

Peel  peaches  and  slice  very  fine.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar  to 
every  two  cups  of  peaches.  Let  stand  twenty  minutes.  Mix 
well,  and  cook  quickly  ior  twenty-five  minutes.  Put  in  glasses 
and  seal. 


CHAPTER   XXVII 

BETTINA   HAS   A   BAKING-DAY 

* ^WT H Y,  Ruth,  I  didn't  hear  you  come  in !" 

T  T  "The  door  was  partly  open — Bob  must  have  left  it 

that  way — and  I  sHpped  in  quickly  to  see  what  you  were  up 
to.  It's  raining  as  if  it  never  intended  to  stop.  I  called  to  Bob 
on  his  way  downtown,  and  asked  what  you  were  doing  today. 
He  said  that  wonderful  baking  preparations  were  going  on  be- 
cause you  expected  his  sister  Polly  and  her  three  children  to- 
morrow. That  sounded  like  a  deluge — all  those  lively  young- 
sters, and  Polly  livelier  yet — so,  I  came  over  to  see  if  I  couldn't 
help." 

"Indeed  you  can,  Ruth !  That  was  dear  of  you !  We'll  have 
a  houseful,  won't  we?  I  have  planned  to  put  Polly  and 
Dorothy  and  the  baby  in  the  guest  room,  but  Donald  will  have 
to  sleep  on  the  davenport.  And  I'm  planning  to  do  most  of  the 
cooking  today,  so  that  tomorrow  we  can  visit  and  see  people 
and  show  the  children  the  sights.  They  are  coming  this  after- 
nooUj  and  will  be  here  Sunday  and  Monday  at  least.  As  soon 
as  I  finish  filling  these  salt-shakers,  I'll  begin  the  baking.  Good- 
ness, it  will  certainly  be  a  help  to  have  you  here,  Ruth !  You 
were  such  a  dear  to  come  in  all  this  rain !" 

"Oh,  I  like  it!  I  always  learn  so  much  from  you,  Bettina. 
But  what  on  earth  are  you  doing  with  that  rice  ?" 

"Just  putting  a  few  grains  in  the  shakers.  You  know  salt 
gets  damp  on  a  rainy  day  like  this,  and  the  rice  loosens  it  and 
absorbs  the  moisture.  I'm  doing  it  first  because  I  might  for- 
get." 

"What  are  you  going  to  make  ?" 

"Well,  I'll  cook  some  potatoes  and  beets  to  warm  up  or 
make  salad  of,  and  I'll  make  a  veal  loaf  and  a  white  cake,  I 

100 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  101 

think.  Then  some  salad  dressing,  and  a  berry  pie  and  some 
sour  cream  cookies.  Oh,  yes,  some  nut-bread  and  some  tomato 
gelatin,  too." 

''Goodness  !    Can  you  use  all  those  things  ?" 

"Yes,  indeed  1  For  tonight's  d-  er  I'll  have  lamb  chops, 
and  some  of  the  cooked  potatoes,  creamed,  and  tomato  gelatin, 
and  the  blackberry  pie.  (You  know  berry  pies  ought  to  be 
eaten  soon  after  they  are  made.)  If  tomorrow  is  a  nice  day, 
we'll  eat  our  dinner  in  the  park,  and  in  any  case,  I'll  be  pre- 
pared, for  I'll  have  the  veal  loaf,  and  the  beets  to  warm  up, 
and  the  rest  of  the  potatoes  to  cream  or  make  salad  of,  and  the 
nut-bread  for  sandwiches  if  we  need  them,  and  the  cake  and 
some  sliced  peaches  for  dessert." 

"And  the  cookies  ?" 

"Well,  children  always  want  cookies.  I'll  bake  these  on  my 
big  baking  sheets  just  the  size  of  the  oven,  and  I'll  put  lots 
of  raisins  on  top." 

"Bettina,  what  fun  it  would  be  to  visit  you  1  But  we  must 
get  at  our  work  or  Polly  and  family  will  be  here  before  this 
big  baking  is  done  !" 

BETTINA'S  BAKING  DAY  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 

Berry  Pie  (Four  portions) 
V/2  C-berries  (black  or  blue  ber-       2  T-flour 
ries)  K  t-salt 

J^  C-sugar  I  T-lemon  juice 

Wash  the  fruit,  mix  with  the  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  lemon 
juice.  Line  a  deep  pie  tin  with  a  plain  pie  paste  and  sprinkle 
one  tablespoon  sugar  over  bottom  crust.  Add  the  berry  mix- 
ture. Wet  the  lower  crust  slightly.  Roll  out  the  upper  crust 
and  make  slits  in  the  middle  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape. 
Place  on  the  lower  crust,  pinching  the  edges  together.  Bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  forty  minutes. 

Tomato  Jelly  (Six  portions) 

2  C-tomatoes  I  bay  leaf 

y2  C-water  3  cloves 

I  T-sugar  i  t-salt 

2  T-gelatine 

Simmer  tomatoes,  water,  sugar,  bay  leaf,  cloves,  and  salt 


102     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

for  ten  minutes.  Strain.  Soak  the  gelatin  in  two  tablespoons 
cold  water,  and  add  the  hot  vegetable  mixture.  Pour  into  small 
wet  moulds.  Chill  for  two  hours  and  serve  with  salad 
dressing. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing  (One  cup) 
2  egg  yolks  %  t-paprika 

2  T-flour  y2  t-butter 

I  t-salt  1/3  C-vinegar 

I  t-mustard  1/3  C-water 

2  T-sugar 

Beat  egg-yolks  thoroughly  and  add  the  dry  ingredients 
(mixed  and  sifted).  Gradually  add  the  vinegar  and  water. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick  and  creamy,  or  directly  over 
small  flame,  stirring  constantly.  If  whipped  cream  is  to  be 
used,  no  butter  need  to  be  added.  If  not,  add  butter  the  last 
thing.  Beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  until  creamy.  Keep  in 
a  cool  place. 

Sour  Cream  Cookies  (Three  dozen) 

1  C-sugar  y2  t-soda 
}/2  C-butter  (or  lard  and  butter     J^  t-salt 

mixed)  2  t-grated  nutmeg 

2  eggs  about  2  C-flour,  or  as  little  as 
14  C-sour  cream  or  sour  milk            possible 

Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar.  Cream  again.  Add  the  eggs 
well  beaten,  sour  milk,  one  cup  flour,  soda,  salt  and  nutmeg 
mixed  and  sifted  together.  Add  the  rest  of  the  flour.  Roll 
out  to  one-third  of  an  inch  thickness,  cut  any  desired  shape, 
and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Sugar 
mixed  with  a  little  flour  may  be  sifted  over  the  dough  before 
cutting.  Raisins  may  also  be  pressed  into  the  top  of  each 
cooky. 

Doughnuts   (Thirty) 
14  C-sugar  2  C-flour 

I  egg  beaten      ^  t-salt 
2/3  C-milk  %  t-cinnamon 

2  t-baking  powder 

Mix  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar,  add  the  milk,  flour,  salt,  cin- 
namon and  baking  powder,  sifted  together.  Take  one-half  of 
the  dough,  and  roll  out  one-third  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  with  a 
doughnut  cutter.  Roll  and  cut  the  other  half.  Put  the  scraps 
together  and  roll  again.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  turning  until  a 
delicate  brown.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 


CHAPTER   XXVIII 

POLLY  AND  THE  CHILDREN 

^^ TXT" ILL  you  look  at  the  way  that  child  eats  her  cereal!" 
▼V  ejaculated  Polly  at  the  breakfast  table.  "And  I 
simply  can't  get  her  to  eat  it  at  home !  In  fact,  on  warm  days 
like  this,  she  won't  eat  any  breakfast  at  all.'* 

"I  like  Aunt  Betty's  cereal;  it  looks  so  pretty,"  explained 
little  Dorothy  gravely,  looking  down  at  her  plate  of  moulded 
cereal  surrounded  by  plump  red  raspberries. 

**I  hope  you  don't  mind  my  serving  it  cold  today,"  said 
Bettina.  "It  seemed  so  warm  yesterday  that  I  cooked  the 
cereal  and  put  it  in  moulds  in  the  refrigerator." 

"No  indeed !  The  change  is  a  regular  treat  for  the  children. 
They  like  fixed-up  things  like  this,  and  it  certainly  does  give 
anyone  an  appetite.'* 

"Well,  in  hot  weather,  no  one  feels  much  like  eating,  any- 
how, so  I  try  to  make  things  as  attractive  as  I  can.  And  I 
want  the  children  to  have  just  what  they  like.  .  .  .  You 
needn't  be  afraid  of  this  cream,  Polly.  We  buy  it  from  a 
neighbor,  and  I  am  absolutely  sure  that  it  is  both  clean  and 
good.  I'm  ashamed  to  say  that  we  have  no  certified  milk  in 
thL  town.  Isn't  that  dreadful?  And  people  keep  on  buying  it 
of  dairies  that  they  don't  know  one  thing  about!  Why,  I've 
seen  women  who  had  just  moved  to  town,  and  who  knew  noth- 
ing about  conditions  here,  begin  housekeeping  by  cleaning  house 
thoroughly  from  top  to  bottom,  and  at  the  same  time,  leave 
an  order  for  milk  with  the  first  dairy  wagon  that  happened  to 
drive  down  their  street!  And  they  buy  groceries  and  meat 
from  the  nearest  stores  without  knowing  that  three  blocks 

103 


104     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

away  there  may  be  other  stores  that  are  better,  cleaner  and  less 
expensive.  Shouldn't  you  think  that  women  would  insist  upon 
knowing  all  about  the  food  they  are  giving  their  children  ?  It 
seems  to  me  that  much  common  sense  in  a  housewife  is  a  great 
deal  more  important  even  than  knowing  how  to  cook  and  sew/' 

"I  think  that  knowing  how  to  plan  and  buy  is  more  import- 
ant than  knowing  how  to  do  things  with  your  hands,"  said 
Polly.  "After  all,  it's  the  result  that  counts.  You're  a  won- 
der, Bettina,  because  you  have  a  useful  head  and  useful  hands, 
too,  but  I  haven't.  So  I  try  to  know  as  much  as  possible  about 
every  article  of  food  and  clothing  that  I  buy,  and  to  be  sure 
that  I  am  getting  the  very  best  value  from  Tom's  money,  but  I 
don't  know  how  to  cook  or  sew  or  trim  hats  or  embroider.  I 
like  friends  and  babies  and  outdoor  exercise,  but  I'll  confess 
that  I  don't  like  housework." 

"Well,  Tom  and  the  children  seem  to  be  perfectly  contented 
and  happy,  and  so  do  you.  Therefore,  you  are  a  successful 
housekeeper." 

"You  are  the  right  kind  of  a  sister-in-law  to  have,  Betty !  I 
quite  approve  of  Bob's  choice !" 

The  breakfast  that  morning  consisted  of : 

Moulded  Cream  of  Wheat 

Raspberries 

Sugar  Cream 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Wheat  Cereal  (Three  portions) 

I  C-wheat         2  T-cold  water 
1/3  C-raspberries 

Cook  the  wheat  according  to  the  instructions  on  the  pack- 
age, only  cook  twice  as  long  as  the  directions  suggest.  Mix 
cereal  and  cold  water.  Add  boiling  water  slowly.  This  method 
prevents  lumping.  Wet  individual  moulds  with  cold  water, 
place  raspberries  around  the  inside  of  the  mould  and  fill  with 
the  wheat.     Allow  to  remain  in  mould  for  fifteen  minutes. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  105 

Remove  from  mould,  surround  with  more  berries  and  serve. 
If  desired  cold,  chill  in  the  refrigerator.  Cereals  may  be 
cooked  in  a  double  boiler  or  a  fireless  cooker. 

Method  of  Cooking  Cereals 

Put  the  water  and  salt  in  the  upper  part  of  double  boiler 
and  place  directly  over  the  flame.  When  the  water  boils,  add 
the  cereal  very  slowly,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  for  five  min- 
utes directly  over  the  fire.  Place  the  upper  part  in  the  lower 
part  of  the  double  boiler  containing  boiling  water,  and  cook 
the  required  time.    All  cereals  must  be  thoroughly  cooked. 


1 


AUGUST. 

Twenty  little  jelly -glasses,  twenty  pots  of  jam. 

Twenty  jars  of  pickles  and  preserves. 

Making   other   wealth   than  this   appear   a   stupid 
sham, 

Ah,  you  dears!    What  color,  gleam  and  curves! 


CHAPTER   XXIX 
BETTINA  PUTS  UP  FRUIT 


^^TTONK!  Honk  r  sounded 
-'-■*■  an  auto  horn  at  Bet- 
tina's  door  one  cool  morning,  as 
a  crowd  of  lively  voices  also 
summoned  her. 

"Bettina,  O,  Bettina!  WeVe 
come  to  get  you  to  play  tennis 
with  us  this  morning.  You 
must!  You've  been  neglecting 
us  for  Bob  and  we're  jealous." 
**Oh,  girls,  I  simply  can't!  I 
have  just  bought  quarts  and  quarts  of  cherries  and  currants 
of  a  boy  who  came  to  the  door,  and  I  must  take  today  to  put 
them  up  I" 

"That's  easy !  Leave  'em  till  tomorrow !"  said  Alice  cheer- 
fully. 

'T  can't  do  that,  because  they're  just  at  the  canning  point 
and  it  isn't  a  good  thing  to  have  them  a  bit  over-ripe.  Then 
these  are  freshly  picked,  and  that  is  the  best  way  to  have 
them." 

"I'll  stay  and  help;  may  I?"  said  Ruth,  who  had  suddenly 
developed  a  deep  interest  in  things  domestic. 

"Why,  of  course  I'd  love  to  have  you,  Ruth,  but  seeding 
cherries  is  slow  work,  and  I  believe  that  playing  tennis  would 
be  more  exciting." 

"But  not  half  so  interesting  as  to  hear  you  tell  me  how  you 
do  things.    I  love  to  listen." 

107 


108     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

''We'll  all  stay,"  suggested  Mary.  "It'll  do  us  good.  But 
you'll  have  to  lend  us  big  aprons ;  can  you  ?"  And  she  looked 
down  at  her  white  middy,  skirt,  and  shoes. 

"Come  on !"  shouted  Elsie.  "You  can  lecture  as  we  seed 
cherries,  Bettina.    How  are  you  going  to  put  them  up  ?" 

"Well,  Bob  likes  plain  currant  jelly,  and  plain  canned  cher- 
ries awfully  well.  I  may  preserve  some  cherries  with  currant 
juice,  too,  but  I  think  I'll  not  do  anything  very  elaborate 
today." 

"Goodness,  that  sounds  elaborate  enough  to  suit  me!  Will 
you  be  looking  over  the  currants  while  we  are  stoning  cher- 
ries ?" 

"Leave  the  stones  in  half  of  them,  girls ;  many  people  like 
them  that  way  better." 

"What  were  you  doing  to  all  those  jars?" 

"Just  getting  ready  to  sterilize  them.  You  see  I'll  put 
them  on  a  folded  cloth,  in  this  big  kettle  of  cold  water.  Then 
I'll  slowly  heat  the  water  to  the  boiling  point,  and  fill  the  jars 
immediately  with  the  fruit  and  syrup.  I  must  scald  the  rub- 
ber rings,  too,  before  I  use  them." 

Bettina  was  rapidly  looking  over  currants  as  she  talked. 
"Girls,  do  you  notice  my  jelly  strainer?  See,  it's  a  piece  of 
cheese-cloth  fastened  into  a  wire  strainer.  It  can  be  attached 
to  any  kettle.  I  haven't  used  it  yet,  but  I  know  that  it  will  be 
very  convenient.  You  know  it's  best  to  strain  the  juice  through 
the  cheese-cloth  without  pressure.  If  I  have  the  cloth  double, 
the  juice  will  be  quite  clear.  If  I  wanted  an  especially  clear 
jelly,  I  could  even  have  the  juice  pass  through  a  flannel  or 
felt  bag." 

"How  on  earth  can  you  tell  when  the  jelly  jells?"  asked 
Ruth. 

"Well,  I  test  it  this  way.  I  take  up,  in  a  cold  silver  spoon, 
a  little  of  the  mixture  that  is  cooking.  If  it  jells  and  breaks 
from  the  spoon,  it  has  been  cooking  long  enough.  Of  course  I 
remove  the  rest  from  the  fire  while  testing  it,  because  it  might 
be  done." 

"Bettina,  cooking  and  jelly-making  and  things  like  that  seem 
to  be  so  natural  for  you!"  cried  Ruth.     "I  get  so  frightened 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  109 

sometimes  when  I  think  what  if  I  should  be  a  poor  house- 
keeper and  make  Fred  unhappy !" 

"AHce,"  said  Mary,  "Heaven  forbid  that  either  of  us  should 
ever  be  talking  like  that  about  a  man !" 

"Goodness,  I  should  say  so !"  declared  Alice  emphatically,  a 
little  too  emphatically,  thought  Bettina. 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Currant  Jelly 

2  qts.  currants  sugar 

Pick  over  currants,  but  do  not  remove  the  stems.  Wash 
and  drain.  Mash  a  few  with  a  vegetable  masher  in  the  bottom 
of  a  porcelain-lined  or  granite  kettle.  Add  more  currants  and 
mash.  Continue  adding  currants  until  all  are  used.  Bring 
to  a  boil  slowly  and  let  simmer  without  stirring  until  the  cur- 
rants appear  white.  Strain  through  a  coarse  strainer,  and 
allow  juice  to  drain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Measure  the  juice, 
and  boil  ten  minutes.  Gradually  add  an  equal  amount  of  heated 
sugar,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning,  and  continue 
boiling  until  the  test  shows  that  the  mixture  has  jelled.  When 
filling  sterilized  glasses,  place  them  in  a  pan  containing  a  little 
boiling  water.  This  keeps  the  glasses  from  breaking  when 
hot  jelly  is  poured  in.  Fill  and  set  the  glasses  of  jelly  aside  to 
cool.     Cover  with  hot  melted  paraffin. 

Canned  Cherries 

6  qts.   cherries  i^  qts.  sugar 

J4  pt.  water 

Measure  the  cherries  after  the  stems  have  been  removed. 
Stone  if  desired.  If  they  are  stoned,  be  sure  to  save  the  juice. 
Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  kettle  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  the  cherries  and  heat  slowly  to 
the  boiling  point.  Boil  ten  minutes  skimming  carefully.  Put 
into  sterilized  jars,  filling  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  the 
syrup.  Seal  securely.  (When  filling  the  jars  stand  them  in 
a  pan  containing  boiling  water.  This  keeps  them  from  break- 
ing.) 


110    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband  \ 

Bettina's  Jelly-Making  Suggestions  •■ 

1.  Use  a  porcelain-lined  or  a  granite  kettle, 

2.  Let  juice  drip  from  a  cheese  cloth  or  flannel  bag.  : 

3.  Measure  equal  quantities  juice  and  sugar.  '. 

4.  Boil  juice  ten  minutes,  add  heated  sugar.      (Heated  by  being  ! 

placed  in  warm  oven.)  ■ 

5.  Boil  until  it  drops  thick  from  a  cold  silver  spoon,  or  jells  on  a         j 

plate.  ^  ^  : 

6.  The  smaller  the  quantity  of  jelly  made  at  a  time,  the  clearer 

it  is. 

7.  Cook  no  more  than  three  cups  of  juice  at  a  time. 

8.  Skim  carefully. 

9.  t5oi\  regularly.  ■ 
ID.  Pour  in  sterilized  glasses.                                                                                i 

11.  Let  stand  in  bright  sun  twenty-four  hours. 

12.  Cover  with  very  hot  paraffin.     This  kills  any  bacteria  that  may 

have  collected.  J 

13.  Keep  jelly  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place.  ■ 


CHAPTER  XXX 

A  COOL  SUMMER  DAY 

^^TITHY,  hello,  Ruth !"  cried  Bettina  at  the  door  one  after- 
»  ^  noon.  **I  haven't  seen  you  for  weeks,  it  seems  to  me ! 
What  have  you  been  doing?  Come  in  and  give  an  account  of 
yourself !" 

"First  let  me  deliver  these  nasturtiums  that  mother  sent," 
said  Ruth.  "She  always  remembers  how  fond  you  are  of 
flowers." 

"Thank  you,  they're  lovely!  I  need  them  tonight  for  my 
table,  too.  Will  you  come  into  the  kitchen  with  me  while  I 
put  these  in  water  ?" 

"M-m,"  said  Ruth.    "Something  smells  good  !    In  the  oven  ?" 

"Yes,  pork  chops,  baked  apples  and  escalloped  potatoes. 
Peek  in  and  see  'em." 

"Outch !"  cried  Ruth,  holding  her  hand  in  sudden  pain.  "I 
forgot  that  that  pan  was  hot,  and  started  to  pull  it  out  to  see 
better !  I'm  a  perfect  idiot !  I  do  that  every  time  I  have  any- 
thing in  the  oven !" 

"That's  a  shame,  Ruth,  dear!  Here,  apply  a  little  of  this 
olive  oil!  It's  the  nearest  remedy  I  have.  Vaseline  is  good, 
too,  or  baking  soda.  Hold  it  with  the  damp  cloth  to  keep  out 
the  air." 

"It  feels  better  already,"  said  Ruth.  "I  made  some  ginger- 
bread last  evening  for  dinner — Fred  was  there — and  burned 
my  hand  in  the  same  way  exactly.  And  even  at  such  a  cost 
the  gingerbread  wasn't  very  good.  I  think  I  didn't  bake  it  quite 
long  enough.     How  long  ought  it  to  be  in  the  oven  ?" 

"Well,  gingerbread  takes  longer   than  most  quick-breads. 

Ill 


112     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Here,  let  me  give  you  my  time-guide  for  baking,  and  you  can 
keep  it  in  your  card-index.  Then  it's  always  at  hand  when 
you  want  to  refer  to  it." 

"Thank  you,  that's  a  good  idea,  Bettina.  May  I  sit  down 
here  at  the  kitchen  table  and  copy  it  ?" 

"Do,  I'll  get  you  a  pencil  and  a  piece  of  paper.  Ruth,  won't 
you  stay  to  dinner  tonight  ?'* 

"I  can't  possibly,  Bettina.  I  am  going  out  with  mother,  and 
should  be  at  home  now  dressing.  Oh,  by  the  way,  I  had  a 
chance  to  refer  last  night  to  something  you  made  me  copy  and 
put  with  my  recipe  cards.  'How  to  Remove  Grass  Stains' !  I 
got  it  on  my  white  dress — a  dreadful  looking  stain — and  im- 
mediately referred  to  my  card-index.  It  said,  'Moisten  with 
alcohol  or  camphor,  allow  to  stand  five  minutes,  and  wash  out 
with  clear  water.'  The  stain  came  out  like  magic !  I  used  cam- 
phor ;  we  didn't  happen  to  have  any  alcohol  in  the  house." 

*T'm  so  glad  it  came  out ;  that  is  such  a  pretty  white  dress. 
And  weren't  you  glad  you  knew  just  where  to  find  a  remedy? 
It  seems  a  little  trouble  to  index  things,  but  it  is  really  worth 
doing." 

"I  think  so,  too.  Well,  there's  Bob,  and  I  must  rush  off. 
Bob,  you're  going  to  have  a  good  dinner  tonight!  I've  just 
been  investigating!" 

Bob  had : 

Pork   Chops  Escalloped   Potatoes 

Baked  Apples 

Bread  Butter 

Fresh  Pears 

Tea 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Baked  Apples 

4  apples  ^  C-water 

8  T-sugar  ^^  t-cinnamon 

2  T-butter 

Select  apples  of  uniform  size.  Wash  and  core.  Place  in  a 
pan,  cover  the  bottom  with  water.    Fill  each  cavity  witn  sugar, 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  113 

a  dash  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  a  tiny  lump  of  butter.  Bake 
for  thirty  minutes,  basting  occasionally.  Serve  around  the 
platter  of  pork  chops. 

Bettina's  Time-Guide  for  Baking  Quick  Breads 

Pop-overs — Thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Baking-powder  biscuits — Ten  to  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Corn  bread — Twenty-five  to  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Mufifins — Twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Gingerbread — Thirty  to  forty-five  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 


CHAPTER  XXXI 

BOB  AND  BETTINA  ALONE 

^^TXTHY,  Bob,  look  at  the  front  of  your  Palm  Beach  suit!" 
^^  exclaimed  Bettina,  after  she  had  greeted  Bob  at  the 
door.    "What  in  the  world  have  you  been  doing  ?" 

"Pretty  bad ;  isn't  it !"  said  he,  ruefully.  "Frank  Dixon 
brought  me  home  in  his  car,  and  he  had  some  sort  of  engine 
trouble.  We  worked  on  it  for  awhile,  but  couldn't  fix  it,  so  he 
phoned  the  garage  and  I  came  home  on  the  street  car.  I  must 
have  rubbed  up  against  some  grease.  Do  you  suppose  my 
clothes  are  spoiled  ?" 

"No-o,"  said  Bettina,  slowly,  "not  if  I  get  at  them.  Let  me 
see ;  what  is  it  that  takes  out  auto  grease  ?  Oh,  I  know !  Bob, 
you  go  and  change  your  clothes  right  away  while  I'm  cooking 
the  meat  for  dinner.     Then  I'll  doctor  these." 

"What  will  you  do  to  them?" 

"I'll  rub  them  with  lard,  and  let  it  stay  on  them  for  about 
an  hour.  Then  after  dinner  I'll  wash  them  out  in  warm  water 
and  soap,  and  then — well.  Bob,  I  believe  they'll  be  all  as  good 
as  new." 

"I  thank  you,  Mrs.  Bettina." 

When  Bob  returned  and  Bettina  was  putting  the  dinner  on 
the  table,  she  smiled  to  herself  over  a  new  idea  that  had  popped 
into  her  head. 

"Bob,  what  would  you  think  if  I  should  enter  some  of  my 
nut-bread  at  the  state  fair  ?" 

"Well,  is  that  what  you've  been  smiling  at  all  this  time?  I 
think  it  would  be  fine.    If  I  were  judge  you'd  get  first  prize  in 

114 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  115 

a  minute !     Say,  strikes  me  this  is  a  pretty  good  dinner  1" 
It  consisted  of : 

Ham  Mashed    Potatoes 

Escalloped  Onions 

Rolls  Butter 

Dutch    Apple    Cake  Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Ham  (Three  portions) 

2/3  lb.   ham     2  T-water 

Wipe  a  slice  of  ham  (one-third  of  an  inch  thick)  and  remove 
the  rind.  Place  in  a  hot  frying-pan.  Add  the  water.  Cook 
until  brown  on  both  sides  (about  fifteen  minutes). 

Escalloped  Onions   (Two  portions) 

I  C-cooked    onions  3  T-fresh  bread  crumbs 

y2  C-vegetable  white  sauce         2  T-butter 

Mix  the  onions  with  the  white  sauce  and  pour  into  a  but- 
tered baking  dish.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  fresh  bread 
crumbs.  Place  the  buttered  crumbs  on  top  of  the  onions. 
Brown  the  mixture  in  the  oven  (about  fifteen  minutes). 

r 

Dutch  Apple  Cake  (Two  portions) 

1  C-floui  I  t^g,  well  beaten 

Ya  t-salt  1/3  C-milk 

2  t-baking  powder  i  sour  apple 

I  T-butter  2  T-sugar 
Yz  t-cinnamon 

Mix  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Cut  in  the  butter.  Add 
the  milk  and  Qgg.  Mix  well.  Spread  one-half  an  inch  thick 
in  a  shallow  pan.  Pare  and  cut  the  apples  in  lengthwise  sec- 
tions. Lay  in  rows  in  the  dough  with  the  sharp  edges  pressed 
lightly  into  the  dough.  Mix  the  sugar  and  cinnamon  and 
sprinkle  over  the  top.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.    Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 


116     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Lemon  Sauce  (Two  portions) 

y2  C-sugar  I  C-water 

Ys  t-salt  I  t-butter 

I  t-flour  2  T-lemon  juice 

Mix  the  sugar,  salt  and  flour  well.  Add  the  water  slowly. 
Cook  seven  minutes.  Add  the  butter  and  lemon  juice.  Serve 
hot. 


CHAPTER   XXXII 
BETTINA  ATTENDS  A  MORNING  WEDDING 

<^T  TOW  lovely!"  Bettina  whispered  to  Bob  after  the  beau- 

■^  -^  tiful  ceremony  had  taken  place  in  the  rustic  grape 
arbor.  "How  like  Cousin  Kate  this  is !  But  I  had  no  idea  that 
Frances  planned  to  be  married  out  of  doors,  had  you  ?" 

"She  told  me  that  they  were  hoping  for  fair  weather,  but 
weren't  counting  on  it." 

"And  this  is  a  regular  golden  day ;  isn*t  it !  What  a  time  to 
remember !  Bob,  look  at  Cousin  Kate's  flowers !  A  natural 
altar,  without  decoration !  Poppies,  sweet-peas,  nasturtiums, 
cosmos,  more  kinds  than  I  can  count !  It's  a  little  earlier  than 
they  usually  have  weddings,  too;  isn't  nine-thirty  early?" 

"Yes,  but  Frances  thought  that  this  would  be  the  prettiest 
time  for  it,  and  you  know  they  aren't  at  all  conventional." 

"What  are  you  two  gossiping  about?"  shouted  big  Cousin 
Charles  in  Bettina's  ear :  "don't  you  see  enough  of  each  other 
at  home  without  avoiding  the  rest  of  us  at  a  time  like  this? 
Go  and  kiss  the  bride  and  congratulate  the  groom  as  soon  as 
you  can  get  to  them.  Fanny  wants  to  see  you  particularly,  Bet- 
tina. Breakfast  is  to  be  served  on  the  porch ;  don't  forget  that 
you  two  are  to  be  at  the  bride's  table !" 

The  wide  porch  looked  very  charming.  Each  table  seated 
four,  except  the  one  for  the  bridal  party  and  near  relatives, 
which  was  in  the  center,  surrounded  by  the  others.  On  each 
table  was  a  basket  of  pink  sweet-peas  and  trailing  greenery. 
Each  simple  white  place-card  held  a  flower  or  two,  slipped 
through  two  parallel  cuts  across  the  corner.  Frances  was 
seated  at  the  groom's  left,  and  at  her  left  sat  her  new  brother- 

117 


118     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

in-law,  who  was  the  best  man.  Next  to  him  was  the  minister's 
wife,  then  jolly  Cousin  Charles,  the  bride's  father,  then  the 
groom's  mother.  At  the  right  of  the  groom  sat  Anne,  Fanny's 
sister,  who  was  maid-of-honor ;  and  next  to  her  sat  the  clergy- 
man. Then  came  the  bride's  mother  and  the  groom's  father. 
Beyond  him  sat  Bettina,  then  Bettina's  cousin  Harry,  then  Aunt 
Nell  and  Bob.  That  was  all,  for  there  were  few  near  relatives 
and  Bettina's  father  and  mother  were  in  California. 

"Frances  looks  well;  doesn't  she?"  said  Aunt  Nell  to  Bet- 
tina. "No  showers,  no  parties  or  excitement,  and  you  can  see 
how  simple  the  wedding  has  been.  Cousin  Kate  is  so  sensible, 
and  so  is  Frances.  I  can  tell  you  already  that  the  breakfast 
menu  will  be  dainty  and  delicious,  but  simple." 

She  was  right,  for  it  consisted  of : 

Watermelon   Cubes 

(Served  in  Sherbet  Glasses) 

Fried  Spring  Chicken  New   Potatoes 

Creamed  Peas 

Hot  Rolls  Butter 

Currant  Jelly  Peach   Ice   Cream 

Bride's  Cake  Coffee 

Nuts  Candy 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Fried  Chicken 

1  2^ -lb.  chicken  Vz  t-paprika 

4  T-flour  4  T-fat  (lard  and  butter) 

2  t-salt  2  T-water 

To  Prepare  the  Chicken  for  Serving  and  Cooking 

Cut  the  legs  from  the  body,  break  the  joint  at  the  thigh  and 
cut  in  two.  Cut  off  the  neck  and  wings.  Break  the  breastbone 
and  cut  in  two  lengthwise.  Break  the  back  in  two  pieces  length- 
wise, if  desired.  Plunge  the  pieces  into  cold  water  and  allow 
to  drain.  Sprinkle  each  piece  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  roll 
in  flour.  Place  the  fat  in  a  frying-pan.  When  very  hot  add 
the  chicken.  Allow  all  the  pieces  to  brown  thoroughly ;  cover 
the  pan  with  a  lid  and  add  the  water,  lower  the  fire  and  cook 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  119 

over  a  moderate  fire  for  thirty  minutes.     Turn  frequently  to 
prevent  scorching. 

Gravy  (Six  portions) 

3  T-fat  from  frying-pan  I  t-salt 

I  T-butter  %.  t-paprika 

6  T-flour  iy2  C-milk 

I  t-parsley  chopped 

Loosen  the  pieces  of  chicken  which  have  stuck  to  the  frying- 
pan,  add  the  butter,  stir  constantly  until  the  butter  "bubbles," 
add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  the  milk 
slowly,  cook  for  two  minutes,  add  the  chopped  parsley  and 
pour  the  gravy  into  a  gravy  bowl  for  serving. 

Bride's  Cake  (Thirty  pieces) 

i^  C-sugar  3  t-baking  powder 

5^  C-butter  J4  t-cream   of   tartar 

25^  C-flour  J/2  t-almond  extract 

li  t-salt  I  t-vanilla 

2/3  C-milk  4  egg-whites 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  continue  creaming  the 
mixture.  Mix  and  sift  three  times  the  flour,  salt,  baking  pow- 
der and  cream  of  tartar.  Add  these  dry  ingredients  alternately 
with  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Add  the  almond  and  vanilla 
extracts.  Beat  two  minutes.  Cut  and  fold  in  the  egg-whites 
which  have  been  stiffly  beaten.  Pour  the  cake  batter  into  a 
large,  round  loaf  cake  pan,  having  a  hole  in  the  center.  Bake 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  the  cake  is  re- 
moved from  the  oven,  allow  it  to  stand  in  a  warm  place  for 
five  minutes,  then  with  a  spatula  and  a  sharp  knife,  carefully 
loosen  the  cake  from  the  sides,  and  turn  out  onto  a  cake  cooler. 
When  cool,  cover  with  White  Mountain  Cream  Icing. 

Suggestions  for  Serving  the  Bride's  Cake 

The  Bride's  Cake  may  be  baked  in  this  form  and  placed  in 
the  center  of  the  table  for  the  central  decoration.  A  tall,  slen- 
der vase,  filled  with  the  flowers  used  in  decorating,  may  be 
placed  in  the  hole  in  the  cake.  Place  the  cake  upon  a  paste- 
board box  four  inches  high  and  one  inch  wider  than  the  cake. 


120    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

This  gives  space  to  decorate  around  the  cake.  The  cake  and 
box  may  be  placed  on  a  reflector,  which  gives  a  very  pretty  ef- 
fect. If  cake  boxes  containing  wedding  cakes  are  distributed 
among  the  guests  as  favors,  use  the  one  in  the  round  pan  for 
central  decoration  and  bake  others  in  square  pan.  Square 
pieces  may  then  be  cut,  wrapped  in  waxed  paper,  and  placed 
in  the  boxes. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII 
AFTER  THE  "TEA" 

^^T^  OESN'T  it  bore  you  to  think  of  cooking  when  youVe 

-*-^  been  out  all  afternoon?"  asked  Mrs.  Dixon,  wearily. 
"And  today  the  refreshments  were  so  elaborate  and  every- 
thing was  so  stiff  and  tiresome !" 

"I  usually  anticipate  feeling  this  way,"  said  Bettina,  "and 
plan  to  have  something  at  home  that  is  already  prepared,  and 
that  I  can  get  together  without  much  trouble.  Then  I  put  on 
a  house  dress  as  quickly  as  I  can,  for  I  can't  bear  to  cook  in 
party  clothes.  But  I'm  sure  I  don't  know  what  I  am  going  to 
have  for  dinner  tonight.  Bob  and  I  had  planned  to  go  down- 
town to  dinner  with  some  friends,  but  just  before  I  went  out 
this  afternoon  he  phoned  that  the  invitation  had  been  with- 
drawn because  of  somebody's  illness." 

"Goodness !"  cried  Mrs.  Dixon,  "what  will  you  do  ?  Go 
downtown  yourselves?" 

"No;  Bob  doesn't  enjoy  that,  and  neither  do  I.  I  can  man- 
age somehow,  for  of  course  there  are  always  things  in  the 
house  to  get.  I'll  tell  you.  I'll  phone  Bob  to  bring  Mr.  Dixon 
here,  and  you  can  see  what  an  emergency  supper  is  like." 

"Oh,  I  couldn't  think  of  it!  You're  tired,  and  it's  nearly 
six  now !" 

"Well,  what  of  that?  You  can  help.  And  I  know  you're 
dreading  to  get  dinner  at  home.     We'll  just  combine  forces." 

Bettina  went  to  the  telephone  and  called  Bob.  "Hello,  dear ! 
Please  bring  Mr.  Dixon  home  to  dinner  with  you;  Charlotte 
is  going  to  stay.    And  if  you  come  in  his  car,  will  you  stop  on 

121 


122     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

the  way  and  get  a  watermelon  that  has  been  on  ice  ?  Be  sure 
it's  cold !" 

"And  now,"  she  said  to  Mrs.  Dixon,  "let  me  get  into  a  house- 
dress,  and  then  for  a  sight  of  the  refrigerator." 

"Oh,  what  beautiful  glazed  apples !"  exclaimed  Mrs.  Dixon 
ten  minutes  later. 

"They  were  to  have  been  for  breakfast,  but  I'll  have  them 
for  dinner  instead.  Then  there  are  enough  cold  boiled  potatoes 
for  creamed  potatoes ;  and,  besides  that,  we'll  have  an  omelet. 
And  then  I'll  stir  up  some  emergency  biscuit " 

"And  you  can  explain  everything  that  you  do !" 

"Well,  for  the  omelet — we'll  take  four  good-sized  eggs — one 
for  each  of  us " 

"What  else  goes  in?    Milk? 

"No,  I  think  that  hot  water  makes  a  more  tender  omelet. 
Then  I'll  use  a  few  grains  of  baking  powder  to  assist  in  holding 
it  up,  though  that  isn't  necessary.  We'll  beat  the  yolks  and 
whites  separately  till  they're  very  light.  Goodness !  There 
come  the  men !" 

"Here's  your  watermelon,  Bettina !"  called  Bob.  "A  big  fel- 
low !  Don't  forget  to  save  the  rind  for  pickles,  will  you  ?  Why, 
hello,  Mrs.  Dixon !    Frank's  here !" 

The  menu  that  night  consisted  of : 

Omelet  Creamed  Potatoes 

Glazed  Apples 

Emergency  Biscuit  Butter 

Watermelon 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Omelet   (Four  portions) 

4  eggs  Ys  t-pepper 

4  T-hot  water  i  T-butter 

y2  t-salt  a   little   parsley- 

Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  Add  hot  water 
(one  tablespoonful  to  an  ^gg),  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the 
whites  till  stiff  and  dry.  Cut  and  fold  into  the  first  mixture. 
Heat  the  omelet  pan,  add  the  butter,  turn  the  pan  so  that  the 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  123 

melted  butter  covers  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  pan.  Turn 
in  the  mixture,  spread  evenly,  turn  down  the  fire  and  allow 
the  omelet  to  cook  slowly.  Turn  the  pan  so  that  the  omelet 
will  brown  evenly.  When  well  puffed  and  delicately  browned 
underneath,  place  the  pan  on  the  center  shelf  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  finish  cooking  the  top  of  the  omelet.  Crease  across 
center  with  knife  and  fold  over  very  carefully.  Allow  to  re- 
main a  moment  in  pan.  Turn  gently  with  a  spatula  onto  a  hot 
platter.  Garnish  with  parsley.  An  omelet  is  sufficiently  cooked 
when  it  is  firm  to  the  touch  when  pressed  by  the  finger. 

Creamed  Potatoes  (Four  portions) 

2  Ccold    diced   potatoes       H  t-salt 

I  T-chopped  parsley  Y^  t-paprika 

I  T-chopped  pimento  i  C-vegetable  white  sauce 

Add  the  potatoes,  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper,  to  vegetable 
white  sauce.  Add  pimento  and  parsley.  Cook  three  minutes, 
stirring  constantly. 

Emergency  Biscuit 

2  C-flour  Yz  t-salt 

4  t-baking  powder  3  T-fat  (lard  and  butter) 

7/8  C-milk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  cut  in  the  fat.  Add  the  milk, 
mixing  with  a  knife.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  pan, 
placing  one  inch  apart.    Bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Glazed  Apples  (Six  portions) 

6  apples  1Y2  C- water 

1Y2  C-"C"  sugar  i  t-butter 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  six  minutes  in  a  deep  saucepan. 
Do  not  stir.  Pare  and  core  the  apples.  Place  them  in  the 
syrup  as  soon  as  pared,  to  prevent  them  from  discoloring. 
Cook  until  apples  are  tender.  Remove  the  apples  from  the 
syrup  and  boil  the  sugar  and  water  longer  if  it  is  not  thick 
enough.  Add  the  butter  to  the  syrup  and  pour  in  and  around 
the  apples.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Granulated  sugar  may  be  used, 
but  "C*  sugar  gives  a  better  flavor. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV 

BETTINA  GIVES  A  PORCH  BREAKFAST 

TDETTINA  had  risen  early  that  beautiful  July  morning,  for 
-■^  she  had  much  to  do.  Bob  had  insisted  upon  helping  her, 
and  at  eight,  Ruth  was  coming. 

"Such  a  simple  breakfast  after  all,  Bob !  Do  you  think  she'll 
like  it?" 

"Sure  she  will!  If  she  doesn't  I'll  disown  her!  Say,  Bet- 
tina,  I  haven't  had  my  breakfast  yet,  and  ten  o'clock  sounds 
far  away.    May  I  have  just  one  doughnut  with  my  coffee?" 

"Why,  Bobby,  Bobby  !  Did  I  forget  you  ?  Your  Aunt  Eliz- 
abeth and  the  whole  suffrage  cause  is  on  my  mind  this  morn- 
ing, but  I  didn't  think  even  that  could  make  me  forget  you. 
Help  yourself  to  anything  you  see  that  looks  good !" 

The  Aunt  Elizabeth  on  Bettina's  mind  was  an  aunt  of  Bob's 
who  was  to  be  in  town  between  nine  and  twelve,  in  conference 
with  some  of  the  leading  suffragists  of  the  city.  She  wished 
to  see  the  bungalow,  and  at  ten  o'clock  Bettina  was  giving  a 
breakfast  for  her  and  the  women  with  whom  she  was  to  con- 
fer. It  was  with  fear  and  trepidation  that  Bettina  had  invited 
them,  although  she  declared  to  herself  that  she  was  sure,  sure, 
sure,  of  every  dish  on  the  menu ! 

As  she  arranged  the  great  graceful  yellow  poppies  in  the 
center  of  the  porch  table,  set  for  six,  she  was  feeling  somewhat 
nervous. 

"Bob,  you  must  go  now,  or  you'll  be  too  late  for  the  train. 
Take  a  taxi  home,  not  a  street  car." 

"Taxi!  You  don't  know  my  Aunt  Elizabeth.  She'd  say, 
'Say,  young  man,  if  you  aren't  saving  your  money  any  better 

124 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  125 

than  this,  you  ought  to  be/  And  we'd  probably  end  by  walk- 
ing." 

"Hurry,  dear." 

The  train  proved  to  be  late,  and  Ruth  and  Bettina  were  ready 
to  the  last  detail.  While  beautiful,  distinguished-looking  Aunt 
Elizabeth  was  dressing,  Bettina  was  meeting  guests  at  the  door. 
Before  she  realized  it,  she  had  introduced  everybody  to  the 
guest  of  honor,  and  was  ushering  them  out  to  her  charming 
porch  table. 

**Oh,  Ruth,"  she  said  in  the  kitchen,  "isn't  my  Aunt  Eliza- 
beth lovely?  I'll  say  'mine'  now,  not  Bob's.  I  was  in  such 
a  hurry  that  I  forgot  to  be  frightened." 

The  breakfast  consisted  of : 


Moulded   Cereal  on   Bananas 

Whipped  Cream 

Codfish   Balls 

Egg    Souffle 

Green   Peas 

Twin  Mountain  Muffins 

Jelly 

Doughnuts 

Coffee 

'  BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Codfish  Balls   (Four  portions) 

1  C-raw  salt  fish  i  egg,  well-beaten 

2  C-raw  potatoes  %  t-pepper 

I  t-butter  more  salt  if  needed 

Yi  C-cracker  crumbs  i  T-water 

Shred  the  fish.  Pare  and  quarter  potatoes.  Place  the  fish 
and  potatoes  in  a  stewpan  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil 
twenty-five  minutes  or  till  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Do  not  boil 
too  long  or  they  will  become  soggy.  Drain  well,  mash  and 
beat  until  light.  Add  butter,  seasoning  and  e^gg.  Shape,  roll 
in  crumbs,  egg  mixed  with  water,  more  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.  These  may  be  shaped  into  flat  cakes,  rolled  in 
fiour  and  sauted  in  hot  fat.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Egg  SoufiHd  (Four  portions) 

or    % 


2  T-butter 

I  t-salt 

2  T-flour 

a    pinch    of    cayenne 

2  C-milk 

t-paprika 

4  eggs 

I  C-white  sauce 

2/3  C-cooked  peas 

126     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  gradually  add  the 
milk.  Cook  three  minutes,  add  seasoning  and  the  well-beaten 
yolks.  Fold  in  the  beaten  whites  and  turn  into  buttered 
moulds.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  firm  (about  twenty-five  minutes).  Serve  with  a  white 
sauce,  highly  seasoned,  to  which  has  been  added  one  cup  oi 
cooked  peas.     Pour  the  sauce  around  the  souffle. 

Potato  Doughnuts   (Three  dozen  doughnuts) 

1  C-mashed  potatoes,  hot      H  C-sweet  milk 
iH  C-sugar  2  eggs 

2  T-melted  butter  3  C-flour 

3  t-baking  powder  ^  t-grated  nutmeg 

Yi  t-salt  y2  t-powdered  cinnamon 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar.  Mash  the  potatoes  and  add 
the  butter  and  the  milk.  Add  this  mixture  to  the  eggs  and 
sugar.  Add  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  nutmeg  and  cinna- 
mon sifted  together.  Roll  one- fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut 
with  a  doughnut  cutter,  and  fry  in  hot  deep  fat. 


CHAPTER   XXXV 

A   PIECE   OF   NEWS 

A  S  Bettina  was  putting  the  finishing  touches  on  her  porch 
•^  ^  table,  set  for  dinner,  and  humming  a  Httle  song  as  she 
tried  the  effect  of  some  ragged  robins  in  a  mist  of  candy-tuft, 
all  in  a  brass  bowl,  she  heard  a  murmur  of  voices  at  her  front 
door. 

"I'll  tell  just  Betty ;  no  one  else  must  know — ^yet.  But  what 
if  I  haven't  the  courage  to  tell  even  her  ?" 

"Perhaps  she'll  suspect  anyhow !" 

"Goodness,  Harry !  You  make  me  afraid  to  go  in !  Is  my 
expression  different?" 

The  answer  was  not  audible  to  Bettina,  though  she  was  sure 
that  she  heard  whispers  and  a  little  suppressed  laughter.  Cer- 
tainly it  had  sounded  like  Alice's  voice!  What?  Could  Mr. 
Harrison  be  with  her  ?  For  a  moment  Bettina  stood  stock  still, 
feeling  like  an  eavesdropper.  Then  she  let  out  a  gasp  of  amaze- 
ment. "Well !"  was  all  she  said,  and  sat  down  to  think.  When 
the  door-bell  rang,  she  could  not  at  first  gain  the  composure 
necessary  to  answer  it. 

"Why,  how  are  you,  Alice?  I  haven't  seen  you  for  ages! 
And  Mr.  Harrison !  Do  come  in ;  you  must  stay  to  dinner,  for 
you're  just  in  time.     Bob  will  be  home  any  minute." 

"Oh,  we  couldn't  stay !"  answered  Alice.  "Har — Mr.  Har- 
rison and  I  were  walking  home  from  town,  and  when  we  came 
to  this  house,  we  couldn't  help  stopping  to  say  *hello.' " 

Bettina  was  conscious  of  a  strained  feeling  m  the  air,  which 
made  her  want  to  giggle — or  shake  Alice.  After  all,  she 
couldn't  help  overhearing!    And  yet  she  might  be  mistaken! 

127 


128     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

She  found  herself  saying — she  scarcely  knew  what — to  keep  up 
the  conversation. 

"Do  stay !  We  have  a  funny  little  dinner  tonight,  but  I 
believe  you'll  like  it.  Bob  had  been  rather  over-worked  at  the 
office  lately — and  I  tried  today  to  think  of  some  of  his  favorite 
dishes  for  dinner.  I  wanted  to  have  a  jolly  little  meal  to  take 
his  mind  off  his  worries,  /ind  it  would  help  a  lot  if  he  could 
see  you  two  people.  Do  stay !  Do  you  care  for  blueberry 
tarts,  Mr.  Harrison  ?    Well,  that's  to  be  our  dessert !" 

"My,  that  sounds  fine !"  said  Mr.  Harrison.  "Couldn't  we 
stay,  after  all?"  he  asked,  turning  to  Alice. 

"Well,  if  you  reaily,  truly  want  us,"  said  Alice  to  Bettina. 

"Why,  of  course  I  do !  I'm  delighted  to  see  you !  I  think 
we're  fortunate.  Mr.  Harrison,  you  are  usually  so  busy  that 
we  scarcely  dare  invite  you !" 

"I  suppose  I  ought  to  be  at  work  today,  but  I'm  taking  a 
little  holiday.     I  couldn't  put  my  mind  on  business." 

He  was  actually  blushing,  Bettina  thought.  Suddenly  she 
found  Alice's  arms  around  her  and  Alice's  laughing  face  hid- 
den on  her  shoulder.  "Don't,  Harry !  Let  me  be  the  one  to 
tell  her !" 

And  so  Bob  found  them,  all  laughing  and  talking  at  once. 

"Hurrah !"  said  he  when  he  heard  the  news.  "The  best  pos- 
sible idea!  Is  dinner  ready,  Bettina?  Get  out  some  grape 
juice  and  we'll  drink  to  the  health  and  future  happiness  of 
Alice  and  Harry !     I'm  the  man  that  made  this  match !" 

Dinner  that  night  consisted  of : 

Fish  a  La  Bettina  (Four  portions) 

Fish  a  la  Bettina  Rice   Cakes 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Rolls  Butter 

Iced  Grape  Juice  Blueberry  Tarts 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Fish  a  la  Bettina   (Four  portions) 

I  C-medium    white    sauce       2  T-chopped  pimento 
I  1/3  C-cooked  fish  2  T-chopped    sweet    pickle 

1/2  t-p/aprika 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  129 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  heat  and  serve  on  wafers. 

Rice  Cakes  (Four  portions) 

i/^   C-boiled  rice  i  egg  yolk 

y2  t-salt  6  T-crumbs 

4  T-fat  (lard  and  butter  mixed) 

Mix  the  rice  and  salt  with  the  tgg.  Shape  into  flat  cakes, 
two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  and  one-half  an  inch  thick. 
Roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  saute  in  hot  fat  until  brown  on  both 
sides.  (About  eight  minutes.)  If  the  tgg  does  not  sufficiently 
moisten  the  rice,  add  one  tablespoon  of  milk. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  (Four  portions) 

4  tomatoes  3/2  t-salt 

1   C-chopped  cabbage  %  t-paprika 

4  T-salad   dressing 

Stuff  fresh  tomatoes  with  cabbage,  seasoned,  and  mixed  with 
salad  dressing.  Arrange  the  tomatoes  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
place  one  tablespoon  salad  dressing  on  the  top.  Add  a  small 
piece  of  green  pepper  or  a  sprig  of  parsley  to  the  salad 
dressing. 

Blueberry  Tarts  (Four  portions) 

Fill  muffin  pans  with  plain  pastry.  Place  two  tablespoons  of 
mixture  on  each  crust.  Cover  with  pastry  strips  and  bake 
twenty  minutes. 

Blueberry  Mixture 


^   C-blueberries       i  T-butter 
%  C-sugar  I  T-vinega 


-vmegar 
I  t-cinnamon 


Mix  the  berries,  sugar,  butter  cut  in  small  pieces,  vinegar 
and  cinnamon.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  over  a  moderate  fire 
for  three  minutes. 


CHAPTER   XXXVI 

BETTINA  ENTERTAINS  HER  FATHER  AND 
MOTHER 

S^TXrE  had  no  such  steak  as  this  in  CaHfornia!"  declared 
»  »      Bettina's  father  with  satisfaction,  as  Bob  served  him 
a  second  helping. 

"But  then,"  said  Bettina's  mother,  "did  you  find  anything  in 
California  that  you  thought  equalled  anything  in  your  own 
state  ?  Father  never  does,"  said  she,  laughing.  "He  seems  to 
enjoy  traveling  because  it  makes  him  feel  that  his  own  home 
is  superior  to  every  other  place  on  earth.  And  it  is,"  she 
agreed,  looking  about  her  happily.  "I  can  say  that  after  a 
summer  spent  in  California,  I'm  more  than  thankful  to  be 
back  again." 

"I  was  afraid  that  you  and  father  would  be  so  anxious  to 
open  up  the  house  that  you  wouldn't  agree  to  come  here  for 
your  first  meal." 

"Of  course  we're  anxious  to  get  home,"  said  Mother,  "but 
after  you  wrote  Father  that  if  he  would  come  here  to  dinner 
tonight  you  would  have  a  steak  cooked  just  to  suit  him,  he  was 
as  eager  as  a  boy  to  get  here." 

"Well,  who  wouldn't  look  forward  to  it,  after  a  summer  spent 
in  hotels  ?"  said  Father.  "And  I  must  say  that  Bettina's  dinner 
justifies  my  eagerness.     It's  exactly  right — steak  and  all." 

"Now  for  dessert!"  said  Bob.  "This  coffee  that  I've  been 
making  in  the  percolator  is  all  ready,  Bettina !" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had  • 

130 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  131 

Pan-broiled   Sirloin    Steak  Mashed   Potatoes 

Carrots 

Head  Lettuce  Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Sliced  Bananas  Quick  Cake 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pan-Broiled  Steak    (Six  portions) 

2  lb.  sirloin  steak  an  inch  and  a  ^  t-salt 

half  thick  i  T-parsley 

I  T-butter  i  T-lemon  juice 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth.  Have  a  tin  pan  sizzling 
hot.  Place  the  meat  in  the  pan  and  cook  directly  under  the 
broiling  flame.  Turn  frequently  with  spoons,  as  a  fork  will 
pierce  the  meat  and  allow  the  juices  to  escape.  A  steak  an 
inch  and  a  half  thick  should  be  cooked  from  eight  to  ten  min- 
utes. Place  the  steak  on  a  hot  platter.  Sprinkle  with  salt, 
lemon  juice  and  parsley.     Dot  with  butter.     Serve  very  hot. 

Gravy  (Six  portions) 

2  T-drippings  from  the  steak     J^  C-water 
2  T-flour  1/2  C-milk 

%  t-salt 

Pour  the  drippings  from  the  steak  into  a  pan,  add  flour  and 
mix  well.  Allow  the  flour  to  brown,  add  water  and  milk  very 
slowly  to  the  flour  and  drippings.  Add  the  salt  and  allow  to 
cook  until  the  gravy  thickens.  If  there  are  not  two  tablespoons 
of  drippings,  add  sufficient  butter  to  equal  the  amount. 

Carrots  (Six  portions) 

6  medium-sized  carrots  H  t-salt 

2  T-butter  %  t-pepper 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots,  cut  into  two-thirds  inch  cubes 
and  cook  until  tender  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover.  (About 
fifteen  minutes.)  Drain,  add  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Heat  thoroughly  and  serve.  Carrots  may  be  scraped  and 
steamed  whole  or  cooked  whole  in  boiling  water. 


132     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Quick  Cake  (Sixteen  pieces) 

1/3  C-butter  i  2/3  C-flour 

ij6  C-brown  sugar       3  t-baking  powder 
I  egg  I  t-cinnamon 

I/2  C-milk  ^2  t-nutmeg 
%  t-salt  8  dates,  cut  fine 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add  the 
egg  and  milk,  salt,  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon,  nutmeg 
and  dates.  Beat  for  two  minutes.  Bake  in  a  well-buttered 
loaf  cake  pan  for  thirty-five  minutes. 

Icing 

1  egg  white  ^  C-powdered  sugar 

2  T-cold  water  ^  t-vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  white  until  very  stifif;  add  water  and  sugar 
gradually.  Beat  thoroughly  and  add  the  flavoring.  Beat  until 
it  will  stand  alone,  then  spread  on  cake.  More  sugar  may  be 
added  if  necessary. 

Thousand  Island  Salad  Dressing   (Six  portions) 

j4  C-oiive  oil  j4  t-paprika 

juice  of  half  a  lemon  T  t-Worcestershire   sauce 

juice  of  half  an  orange  54  t-mustard 

I  t-onion  juice  i  T-chili  sauce 

H  t-salt  I  T-green  pepper  cut  fine 

I  t-chopped   parsley- 
Place  all  the  above  ingredients  in  a  pint  fruit  jar,  fit  a  rub- 
ber and  top  tightly  on  the  jar,  shake  vigorously  until  well 
mixed   and  creamy,   and  pour  over  head   lettuce,   tomatoes, 
asparagus,  peas,  beans  or  spinach.     Serve  as  a  salad. 


CHAPTER  XXXVII 
THE  BIG   SECRET 

^^/^^OME  in,  Alice!     Now  do  say  that  you'll  stay  to  din- 

^^    ner,  for  we  can  talk  afterward." 

"Well,  if  you'll  take  me  out  into  the  kitchen  where  you  are 
working.  You  see,  I  have  all  this  to  learn,  and  I'm  depending 
on  you  to  help  me.'* 

"Of  course  I'll  help,  Alice,  but  you  are  so  clever  about  any- 
thing that  you  care  to  do  that  I  know  you'll  soon  outstrip  your 
teacher.     Tell  me  first,  does  anyone  know  the  Big  Secret  yet?" 

"Not  a  soul  but  Bettina,  Bob,  and  my  family.  That  is  what 
I  came  to  talk  about." 

"Oh,  Alice,  I'd  love  to  be  the  one  to  give  the  announcement 
luncheon,  or  the  breakfast,  or  whatever  you  prefer  to  have  it !" 

"Would  you  do  it,  really  ?  Bettina,  I've  been  longing  to  have 
you  offer,  but  it  is  work  and  trouble,  and  I  didn't  want  to 
suggest  It." 

"Why,  Alice,  I  just  enjoy  that  kind  of  work !  I'd  be  flat- 
tered to  be  allowed  to  have  it  here.  Of  course,  you  know  that 
I  can't  do  anything  very  elaborate  or  expensive,  but  I'm  sure 
that  between  us  we  can  think  up  just  the  prettiest,  cleverest 
way  of  telling  it  that  any  prospective  bride  ever  had !" 

"Bettina,  my  faith  is  in  you !" 

"When  do  you  plan  to  be  married  ?" 

"Late  in  October  or  early  in  November,  I  think.  And  I'd 
prefer  not  to  have  it  announced  for  a  month.  You  see,  I  don't 
want  to  allow  time  for  too  many  festivities  in  between." 

133 


134     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Oh,  Alice,  if  you  take  my  advice,  you  won't  have  any 
showers  or  parties  at  all.  I  know  you!  If  you  do  allow  it, 
you'll  have  more  excitement  than  any  bride  in  this  town !" 

"Well,  Harry  advises  me  not  to,  but  oh,  Betty,  you  know 
how  it  is !  I  know  so  many  people,  and  I  do  like  fun,  and 
then  Mother  likes  to  think  of  me  as  the  center  of  things.  She's 
afraid  that  when  I  am  married  to  Harry  I'll  become  as  quiet 
as  he  is,  and  then  too,  I  honestly  don't  think  she'd  feel  that  I 
was  really  married  without  it.  You  know  sister  Lillian  had 
lots  of  excitement  and  more  parties  crowded  into  a  day 
than " 

"Yes,  and  she  was  so  tired  that  she  nearly  fainted  when  she 
stood  up  to  be  married !" 

"That's  true,  but  she  liked  the  fun,  anyhow.  She  says  that 
a  girl  can  have  that  kind  of  fun  only  once,  and  she's  silly  to 
deny  herself.  Well,  I'll  have  a  whole  month  to  think  it  over 
in.  I've  been  sitting  here  all  this  time,  Bettina,  trying  to  de- 
cide what  it  is  that  you  are  making — those  croquettes,  I  mean." 

"They  are  potato  and  green  corn  croquettes,  and  Bob  is  very 
fond  of  them.  I  made  them  because  I  happened  to  have  some 
left-over  corn.  Until  I  learned  this  recipe,  I  didn't  know  what 
to  do  with  the  ears  of  cooked  green  corn  that  were  left." 

"And  what  is  the  meat  dish  ?" 

"Well,  that  is  made  of  left-overs,  too,  but  I  think  you'll  like 
it.  Creole  Lamb,  it  is  called.  It  is  made  of  a  little  cold  cooked 
lamb  that  was  left  from  last  night's  dinner.  The  rhubarb 
sauce  that  I  am  serving  with  the  dinner  was  our  dessert  last 
night.     But  I  do  have  a  very  good  new  dessert !" 

"New  or  not,  the  dinner  does  sound  good.  There  is  Bob, 
now,  and  I'm  so  glad,  for  I  confess  that  my  appetite  is  even 
larger  than  usual !" 

The  menu  that  night  was  as  follows : 


Creole  Lamb 

Potato  and  Green  Corn  Croquettes 

Rhubarb  Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Head  Lettuce  French  Dressing 

Lemon  Pie  Cheese 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  135 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Creole  Lamb  (Three  portions) 

I  T-butter  J/^  t-lemon  juice 

I  T-chopped  green  pepper  Yz  t-salt 

Yz  T-onion,  chopped  1/3  t-horseradish 

,1  T-flour  Yz   C-cold    cooked    lamb,    cut    in 
%.  C-meat  stock  or  water  cubes 

%  C-tomato  pulp  3  pieces  of  toast 

Melt  the  butter,  add  pepper  and  onion.  Cook  two  minutes 
and  add  flour,  stock,  pulp,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  horseradish. 
Boil  two  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  lamb.  Heat 
thoroughly,  and  serve  on  toast  strips. 

Potato  and  Green  Corn   Croquettes    (Three   portions) 

I  C-hot  mashed  potatoes  _  Y2  t-salt 

I  C-green  corn  pulp,  cooked  with      Y2  t-pepper 
I  T-butter  i  tgg  yolk 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  thoroughly.  Shape  into  cylin- 
drical form,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  tgg,  roll  again 
in  crumbs.  Deep  fry.  The  ^gg  yolks  for  croquettes  may  have 
a  tablespoon  of  water  added  for  each  yolk.  The  whites  as  well 
as  the  yolks  may  be  used  for  covering  the  croquettes.  To  get 
the  corn  pulp,  cut  the  kernels  lengthwise  of  the  rows,  and  press 
out  the  pulp  with  the  back  of  the  knife.  This  recipe  is  good 
for  left-over  corn. 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII 

AFTER  THE  CIRCUS 

^^'*  I  ^  HERE  is  nothing  so  exciting  as  a  circus,"  said  Ruth, 
-*-  "but  oh,  how  comfortable  and  peaceful  it  seems  to 
get  away  at  last  from  the  crowds  and  the  noise !  How  quiet 
and  cool  this  porch  is,  Bettina.  In  two  minutes  I'll  get  up  and 
help  you  with  dinner,  but  you  made  a  mistake  to  put  such  a 
comfortable  chair  here  in  this  particular  spot." 

"Ruth,  stay  just  where  you  are!  This  meal  is  supper,  not 
dinner,  and  it  will  be  ready  in  the  shortest  possible  time.  Where 
are  the  men  ?" 

"Going  over  the  plans  of  our  house,  I  suppose.  Fred  has 
worn  them  almost  in  pieces  by  exhibiting  them  so  often.  There 
seem  to  be  a  great  many  details  to  settle  at  the  last  minute. 
As  for  me,  I'm  perfectly  satisfied,  for  I'm  going  to  have  a 
kitchen  exactly  like  yours.  Bettina,  what  lovely  nasturtiums, 
and  how  delicious  that  cold  sliced  ham  looks  with  more  nas- 
turtiums to  garnish  it !" 

"Yes,  and  I  have  nasturtium  leaves  lining  the  salad  bowl — 
and  see,  I'll  put  one  large  flower  on  each  plate !" 

"Don't  nasturtiums  always  seem  cool  and  appetizing?  The 
whole  supper  looks  that  way !" 

"Well,  circus  day  is  almost  invariably  warm,  and  people  are 
tired  when  they  come  home,  so  I  planned  to  have  a  cold  and 
simple  meal." 

"Isn't  boiled  ham  hard  to  prepare?" 

"No,  indeed,  nothing  could  be  simpler.  I  bought  a  half  of 
a  ham — I  like  a  piece  cut  from  the  large  end — and  I  soaked  it 
for  an  hour  in  cold  water.     I'hen  I  brought  it  to  a  boil  in 

136 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  137 

fresh  cold  water  and  a  little  vinegar,  and  transferred  it  to  the 
fireless  cooker  for  five  hours.  Then  I  baked  it  for  an  hour  in 
the  cooker,  having  first  trimmed  it,  and  covered  it  with  brown 
sugar  and  almost  as  many  cloves  as  I  could  stick  into  it.  It  is 
very  tender  and  good,  I  think — one  of  the  best  of  my  fireless 
cooker  recipes." 

"I  am  planning  to  have  a  fireless  cooker  when  I  keep  house." 
"That  is  fine,  Ruth !  You  have  no  laea  now  rhey  save  both 
gas  and  worry.  Some  day  I'll  give  you  all  of  my  best  fireless 
recipes ;  I  use  my  cooker  a  great  deal.  For  instance,  this 
brown  bread  was  steamed  in  the  cooker.  A  fireless  is  invalu- 
able for  steaming.  I  usually  plan  to  have  Boston  Brown  "Bread, 
Tuna  or  Salmon  Loaf  and  a  pudding  all  steaming  in  the  large 
compartment  at  once.  Then  I've  learned  to  bake  beautiful 
beans  in  the  cooker !  I  wonder  what  our  grandmothers  think 
of  Boston  Baked  Beans  and  Boston  Brown  Bread  all  made  in 
the  fireless!  I'm  sure  I  could  prove  to  any  of  them  that  my 
way  is  just  as  good,  besides  being  much  cooler  and  more  eco- 
nomical !  Well,  shall  we  call  Fred  and  Bob  ?" 
The  circus  day  supper  consisted  of  : 

Cold  Sliced  Ham 

Boston  Brown   Bread  Butter 

Blackberries  Cream 

Spiced  Cake 

Iced  Tea  Sliced  Lemon 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Spiced  Cake   (Sixteen  pieces) 

1/3  C-butter  H  t-ground  cloves 

1  C-sugar  %  t-mace 

2  tgg  yolks  I  t-soda 
2/3  C-sour  milk          2  C-flour 
ij^  t-cinnamon  i  egg  white 

I  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  egg  yolks.  Mix  well. 
Mix  and  sift  all  dry  ingredients.  Sift  and  add  alternately  with 
sour  milk.  Add  vanilla  and  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Bake  in 
a  loaf  cake  pan,  prepared  with  waxed  paper,  in  a  moderate 


138    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.     Cover  with  "C"  sugar  icing. 

"C"  Sugar  Icing  (Sixteen  pieces) 

I  C-"C"  sugar         J^  t-cream  of  tartar     . 
1/3  C-water  i  egg  white 

^  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar.  Cook  until  the 
syrup  clicks  when  a  little  is  dropped  in  cold  water.  Do  not 
stir  while  cooking.  Have  the  mixture  boil  evenly  but  not  too 
fast.  Pour  gently  over  the  beaten  white  of  the  ^gg.  Stir  and 
beat  briskly  until  creamy.  Add  vanilla.  Place  on  the  cake. 
If  too  hard,  add  a  tablespoon  of  water. 


CHAPTER   XXXIX 
MRS.   DIXON  ASKS   QUESTIONS 

^^T  HAD  resolved,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  at  Bettina's  dinner- 

■*-  tablcj  "not  to  accept  another  invitation  to  come  here 
until  you  people  had  eaten  again  at  our  house.  But  your  invi- 
tations are  just  too  alluring  for  me  to  resist,  and  your  cooking 
is  so  much  better  than  mine,  and  I  always  learn  so  much  that — 
well — here  we  are !  For  instance,  I  feel  that  I  am  about  to 
learn  something  this  very  minute!  (Now,  Frank,  please  don't 
scold  me  if  I  talk  about  the  food !)  Bettina,  how  did  you  ever 
dare  to  cook  cabbage  ?  It  looks  delicious  and  I  know  it  is,  but 
I  tried  cooking  some  the  other  day  and  the  whole  house  has  the 
cabbage  odor  in  no  time.  Yours  hasn't.  Now  what  magic 
spell  did  you  lay  on  this  particular  cabbage  ?" 

"Let  me  answer  that,"  said  Bob.  "I  want  to  show  off !  Bet- 
tina cooked  that  as  she  always  cooks  onions  and  turnips,  in  a 
a  large  amount  of  water  in  an  uncovered  utensil.  Isn't  that 
correct,  Bettina?     Send  me  to  the  head  of  the  class!" 

"Yes,  you're  right.  I  did  boil  the  cabbage  this  morning, 
and  of  course  I  have  a  well-ventilated  kitchen,  but  I  don't 
believe  the  odor  would  be  noticeable  if  I  had  cooked  it  just 
before  dinner." 

"I  never  used  to  eat  cabbage,"  said  Bob,  "but  I  like  Bet- 
tina's way  of  preparing  it.  She  never  lets  it  cook  until  it  gets 
a  bit  brown,  and  so  it  has  a  delicate  flavor.  Most  people  cook 
cabbage  too  long." 

"Another  question.  Teacher.    How  did  you  manage  to  bake 

139 


140    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

these  potatoes  so  that  they  are  so  good  and  mealy?  Mine 
always  burst  from  their  skins." 

"Well,"  said  Bettina,  "I  ran  the  point  of  the  knife  around 
the  outside  of  the  potato.  This  cutting  of  the  skin  allows  it 
to  swell  a  little  and  prevents  it  from  bursting.  Then  I  baked 
it  in  a  moderate  oven.  Another  thing.  I've  discovered  that 
it  is  better  not  to  pierce  a  potato  to  find  out  if  it  is  done.  I 
press  it  with  my  fingers,  and  if  it  seems  soft  on  the  inside,  I 
remove  it  from  the  oven  and  press  the  skin  until  it  breaks, 
allowing  the  steam  to  escape.  If  I  don't  do  that,  a  mealy 
potato  becomes  soggy  from  the  quickly  condensing  steam." 

"Oh,  Bettina,  I'm  so  glad  to  know  that !  I  like  baked  pota- 
toes because  I  know  they  are  so  digestible,  but  I  never  can 
make  them  like  these.  Now  I  won't  monopolize  the  conver- 
sation any  longer.  You  men  may  discuss  business,  or  the  war, 
or  anything  you  choose." 

The  dinner  that  night  was  as  follows : 

Hamburger  Steak  Lemon  Butter 

Baked   Potatoes  Escalloped   Cabbage 

Bread  Butter 

Prune  Souffle 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Hamburger  Steak  (Six  cakes) 

I  lb.  of  beef  cut  from  the  round      i  t-onion  salt  or  onion  juice 
%  t-salt  %  t-pepper 

Grind  the  meat  twice  and  add. the  seasoning.  Shape  into 
cakes  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  and  one  inch  thick, 
handling  as  little  as  possible.  Place  on  a  hot  pan  and  cook 
under  the  broiler  twelve  minutes,  turning  when  brown.  Dot 
with  butter  and  serve  hot. 

Lemon  Butter  for  the  Steak  (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter  14  T-lemon  juice 

14  t-salt  H  T-minced  parsley 

li  t-paprika 

Mix  in  order  given  and  spread  on  hot  meat  of  any  kind, 
broiled  steak,  chops  or  fish. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  141 

Baked  Potatoes  (Four  portions) 

Select  potatoes  of  a  uniform  size.  Wash  thoroughly  with  a 
vegetable  brush.  Run  the  point  of  the  knife  around  the  out- 
side of  the  potato.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty  to  sixty 
minutes. 

Escalloped  Cabbage  (Four  portions) 

2  C-cooked  cabbage        ^  t-paprika 
I  C-white  sauce  J4   C-bread  crumbs 

I  T-butter 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  of  a  two  and  a  half  pound  head  of 
cabbage.  Cut  in  half  (using  but  half  for  dinner).  Wash 
thoroughly  and  cut  in  shreds  or  cnop  moderately  fine.  Put  in 
a  large  kettle  of  rapidly  boiling  water.  Boil  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Drain  well,  add  one-half  a  teaspoon  salt.  Make  the 
white  sauce,  add  the  cabbage  and  paprika,  mix  well.  Place  in 
a  buttered  baking  dish.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  place 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  browned. 

Pnine  Souffle   (Four  portions) 

%  lb.  prunes  I  T-Iemon   juice   or    J^    t-lemon 

6  T-sugar  extract 

2  ^gQ  whites 

Wash  the  prunes  thoroughly,  cover  with  water,  and  allow 
to  soak  three  hours.  Cook  slowly  in  the  same  water  until  soft. 
Remove  the  stones  from  the  prunes,  and  save  the  pulp  and 
juice.  Add  sugar,  cook  until  very  thick  (about  three  minutes). 
Stir  constantly.  Cool,  add  the  lemon  juice.  Cut  and  fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  tgg  whites.  Fill  a  well-buttered  open  tin 
mould  half  full  of  the  mixture.  Place  the  pan  in  another  pan 
filled  with  boiling  water.  Cook  in  a  slow  oven  until  well 
raised,  firm,  and  light  brown  in  color  (about  twenty-five  min- 
utes).    Serve  with  the  following  custard  sauce: 

Custard  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

2  t^^  yolks  y%  t-salt 

4  T-sugar  i^  C-milk 

I  T-flour  Yz  t-lemon  extract 

Beat  tgg  yolks  until  light,  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double 


142    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

boiler.  Add  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Mix  well  and  slowly  add 
the  milk.  Cook  over  the  lower  part  of  the  boiler  until  thick 
enough  to  coat  a  silver  spoon.  Beat  well,  add  the  extract,  and 
cool. 


CHAPTER  XL 

A  TELEGRAM  FROM  UNCLE  ERIC 

^^TTTHAT  shall  I  do  with  this  butter,  Bettina?"  inquired 
^^  Bob,  who  was  helping  to  clear  off  the  table  after 
dinner  one  evening.     "Put  it  in  the  ice-box  ?" 

"The  butter  from  the  table?"  asked  Bettina.  "No,  Bob,  I 
keep  that  left-over  butter  in  a  covered  dish  in  the  cupboard. 
You  see,  there  are  so  many  times  when  I  need  butter  for  cake 
making  or  cooking,  and  prefer  not  to  have  it  very  hard.  Then 
I  use  that  cupboard  butter.  There's  the  doorbell.  Bob.  Now 
who  do  you  suppose  that  can  be?" 

"A  telegram  from  Uncle  Eric,"  said  Bob,  when  he  returned 
from  the  door.  "Well,  isn't  that  the  limit !  He's  coming  to- 
night !" 

"Tonight !"  echoed  Bettina. 

"Yes,  on  business.  You  see,  there  are  so  many  people  in 
town  for  the  state  fair  and  there  are  several  that  he  must  see. 
He's  a  queer  old  fellow — Uncle  Eric  is — and  he  has  some  queer 
notions.  Doesn't  like  hotels,  or  anything  but  home  cooking. 
He  doesn't  want  anything  elaborate,  but  he's  pretty  fussy  about 
what  he  does  want.  I'm  sorry  for  you,  Bettina,  but  I  guess 
we'll  have  to  make  him  welcome.  He's  been  pretty  good  to 
me,  in  his  funny  way,  and  so  I  suppose  he  feels  he  can  descend 
on  us  without  warning." 

"But,  Bob — tonight!  Why,  I'm  not  ready!  I  haven't  gro- 
ceries in  the  house,  or  anything !  And  I  was  planning  to  give 
you  a  cooked  cereal  for  breakfast  tomorrow." 

"It's  too  bad,  Betty,"  said  Bob  sympathetically,  "but  it  seems 

143 


144     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

as  if  we'll  just  have  to  manage  some  way.  Uncle  Eric  has 
been  good  to  me,  you  see.  He's  an  old  fogy  of  a  bachelor,  but 
he  has  a  warm  heart  way  down  underneath  his  crusty  exterior. 
And " 

"Don't  you  worry,  Bob,"  said  Bettina  heartily.  "We  will 
manage.  As  a  rule,  I  think  it's  pretty  poor  taste  for  anyone 
to  \:ome  without  warning  or  an  invitation,  but  maybe  Uncle 
Eric  is  an  exception  to  all  the  rules.  Tell  me  about  him ;  do 
you  have  time?  When  does  the  train  get  in?  Do  you  have 
to  meet  it?" 

"I  guess  I'd  better  hurry  right  off  now." 

"But,  Bob,  tell  me!    What  must  I  have  for  breakfast?" 

"Anything  but  a  cereal,  Betty!  Uncle  Eric  draws  the  line 
at  cereals.  He  has  an  awful  time  with  his  cooks,  too.  They 
never  suit  him." 

"Goodness,  Bob!"  said  Betty,  in  despair.  "And  I  have  al- 
most nothing  in  my  cupboard.  It's  as  bare  as  Mother  Hub- 
bard's !" 

"Good-bye,  dear !  I'm  off !  I  know  you'll  think  of  some 
thing." 

Bettina  smiled  hopelessly  at  the  masculine  viewpoint,  and 
as  soon  as  Bob  had  gone  she  sat  down  to  think,  a  dish  towel 
in  one  hand  and  a  spoon  in  the  other. 

"Be  a  sport,  Bettina,"  she  murmured  to  herself.  "If  Uncle 
Eric  doesn't  like  his  breakfasts,  it's  his  own  fault  for  coming. 
Get  a  pencil  and  paper  and  plan  several  cereal-less  breakfasts, 
so  that  while  he  is  here  you  will  never  be  at  a  loss." 

Thus  fortified  by  her  common  sense  and  what  is  less  com- 
mon, her  sense  of  humor,  Bettina  soon  evolved  the  following 
breakfast  menus  for  Uncle  Eric : 


(I) 

Cantaloupe 

French  Toast  Maple  Syrup 

Broiled  Bacon 

Coffee 


(2) 

Fresh  Pears 

Creamed  Beef  on  Toast 

Coffee 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  145 

Cantaloupe 

Sweet  Milk   Griddle   Cakes 

Syrup 

Coffee 

(4) 

Baked  Apples 

Broiled  Ham  Graham  Muffins 

Coffee 

(5) 

Fresh  Plums 

Codfish   Balls  Twin    Mountain  Muffins 

Coffee 

Cantaloupe 
Waffles  Syrup 

Coffee 

,        (7) 

Watermelon 

Corn  Oysters  Syrup 

Toast 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

French  Toast  (Three  portions) 


6  slices 

stale  b 

read 

'A 

t-salt 

2  eggs 

2/3 

C-milk 

T-sugar 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  salt,  milk  and  sugar.  Place  in  a 
shallow  dish.  Soak  bread  in  the  mixture  until  soft.  Cook 
on  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle,  browning  on  one  side  and  then 
turning  and  browning  on  the  other.  Serve  hot  with  maple 
syrup. 

Sweet  Milk  Griddle  Cakes   (Four  portions) 

2  C-flour  I   C-milk 

3  t-baking  powder  i  t-salt 

I  ^gg,  well-beaten 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  add  the  milk  to  the 
well-beaten  egg,  and  pour  the  liquid  slowly  into  the  dry  ingre- 
dients.   Beat  thoroughly  for  one  minute.     Put  a  spoonful  on 


146    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

a  hot,  well-greased  griddle.    When  done  on  one  side,  turn,  and 
brown  on  the  other.     Never  turn  more  than  once. 

Broiled  Bacon  (Three  portions) 
6  slices  of  bacon 

Place  bacon  slices,  which  have  had  the  rind  removed,  on  a 
hot  tin  pan  and  set  directly  under  a  flame  for  three  minutes. 
Turn  and  broil  the  other  side. 

Com  Oysters  (Three  portions) 

1/3  C-corn  Va.  t-salt 

1/3  C-bread    crumbs  Ys  t-pepper 

I  well-beaten  egg  ^  t-sugar 

Mix  the  corn,  ^gg,  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  sugar. 
Shape  into  cakes  two  inches  in  diameter  and  one-half  an  inch 
thick.  Grease  a  griddle  or  a  frying-pan  thoroughly,  and  when 
very  hot,  place  fritters  on  the  pan.  When  brown  on  one  side, 
turn  over  onto  the  other  side.     Serve  hot,  with  syrup. 


CHAPTER   XLI 
BETTINA  ENTERTAINS  STATE  FAIR  VISITORS 

THE  next  morning  when  Bob  and  Uncle  Eric  had  partaken 
of  a  cereal-less  breakfast,  and  Uncle  Eric  had  even  com- 
plimented the  cook,  Bettina  called  her  mother  on  the  telephone. 

"I  was  about  to  call  you,  Bettina.  Won't  you  go  to  the  fair 
with  us  this  afternoon?  You  know  Cousin  Mabel  and  the 
children  are  here  from  Ford  Center,  and  Cousin  Wilfred  may 
arrive  some  time  this  morning." 

"You  do  have  your  hands  full  this  week,  don't  you,  Mother  ? 
Uncle  Eric  is  at  home  only  for  breakfast,  and  I  called  up  to 
ask  if  you  would  all  come  here  to  dinner  tonight." 

"Oh,  Bettina !  I'm  afraid  it  will  be  too  much  work  for  you, 
dear!" 

"I'll  plan  a  simple  meal.  Mother ;  one  that  I  can  get  together 
in  a  hurry.     In  fact  I've  already  planned  it." 

"But,  in  that  case,  you  couldn't  go  to  the  fair  with  us  this 
afternoon,  could  you  ?  And  it's  said  to  be  especially  good  to- 
day." 

"Why,  yes,  I  could  go.  I  can  get  the  most  of  my  dinner 
ready  this  morning.     What  time  would  you  start?" 

"At  two,  I  think.  Well,  Bettina,  we'll  come,  but  you  must 
make  the  meal  simple,  for  we  won't  be  back  till  six." 

"Don't  worry,  Mother." 

Bettina  hastened  to  make  her  preparations,  and  at  half  after 
one  her  house  was  in  order  and  she  was  ready  to  go.  Besides, 
she  was  comfortably  conscious  of  a  well-filled  larder — cold 
fried  chicken  ready  and  waiting,  cold  boiled  potatoes  to  be 

147 


148     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

creamed,  green  corn  to  be  boiled,  peaches  to  be  sliced,  and 
delicious  chocolate  cookies  to  delight  the  hearts  of  the  children. 

"It  will  take  only  a  few  moments,"  she  thought  as  she  ar- 
ranged the  nasturtiums  on  her  dining  table,  "to  set  the  table, 
cream  the  potatoes,  boil  the  corn,  slice  the  peaches  and  make 
the  tea.  And  I  believe  it's  the  sort  of  a  dinner  that  will  suit 
them." 

The  dinner  for  state  fair  guests  consisted  of : 

Cold  Fried  Chicken  Creamed  Potatoes 

Corn  on  the  Cob 

Sliced  Peaches  Chocolate   Cookies 

Tea  Milk 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed  Potatoes  as  Bettina  Served  Them  (Six  portions) 

3  C-cold,  cooked       potatoes,     6  T-grated  cheese 
chopped  iH  C-milk 

2  T-butter  Yz  t-salt 

3  T-flour  Yz  t-pepper 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  seasoning  and  mix  well ; 
gradually  add  the  milk  and  cheese.  Cook  until  the  consistency 
of  vegetable  white  sauce  (about  one  minute  after  it  boils). 
Add  the  potatoes,  cook  four  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  and 
serve. 

Chocolate  Cookies   (Three  dozen) 

I  C-sugar  Y2  t-cinnamon 

Y3  C-butter  Y2  t-salt 

'  I  t^gg  3  t-baking  powder 

J4   C-milk  I   square  chocolate 

2  C-flour  I  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  cream  well.  Add  alter- 
nately the  sifted  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  tgg  beaten  in 
milk.  Add  the  melted  chocolate  and  vanilla.  Turn  out  on  a 
floured  board  and  roll  a  small  portion  at  a  time  to  one-fourth 
of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  with  a  floured  cooky  cutter.  Place 
on  a  buttered,  floured  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
slightly  brown.     (About  ten  minutes.) 


CHAPTER  XLII 
UNCLE  JOHN  AND  AUNT  LUCY 

AS  Bettina  was  standing  before  a  beautiful  exhibit  of  honey 
in  the  agricultural  building,  she  was  startled  by  a  hand 
upon  her  shoulder. 

"Gracious,  Uncle  John !"  she  exclaimed.  "How  you  fright- 
ened me  !    But  I'm  so  glad  to  see  you !    Where  is  Aunt  Lucy  ?" 

"Here,  somewhere.  You  know  she  took  a  few  prizes  her- 
self and  is  probably  hanging  around  to  hear  any  stray  compli- 
ments for  her  butter  or  preserves." 

"Aren't  you  ashamed,  John !"  said  Aunt  Lucy,  herself  ap- 
pearing like  magic.  "I  was  just  looking  for  the  queen  bee 
among  the  others  in  this  glass  case." 

"And  here  she  is !"  said  Uncle  John,  laying  his  hand  on  Bet- 
tina's  shoulder,  and  laughing  delightedly  at  his  own  joke. 
"You've  been  looking  in  the  wrong  place." 

"For  that.  Uncle  John,  I'm  going  to  beg  you  and  Aunt  Lucy 
to  come  home  with  me  to  dinner.  Won't  you  ?  When  did  you 
come  in?" 

"This  morning,  and  we're  making  a  day  of  it.  We'd  like 
to  see  the  fireworks  this  evening,  but  perhaps  we  could  go  to 
your  house  and  get  back  again.  For  that  matter,  you  and  Bob 
could  go  with  us  to  see  the  fireworks.    How  about  it  ?" 

"Oh,  that  would  be  splendid!  Bob  couldn't  come  to  the 
fair  this  afternoon,  and  I  came  with  a  friend." 

"Well,  we'll  take  you  both  home  in  the  car.  When  shall  we 
see  you  ?  Five  o'clock  ?  Fine !  And  you  and  Bob  must  come 
back  with  us  this  evening." 

Dinner  that  night  consisted  of : 

149 


150    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Broiled  Ham 
Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  Pickled   Beets 

Bread  Butter 

-    Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (Four  portions) 

2  C-chopped  potatoes  a  pinch  of  pepper 

Yi  t-salt  4  T-fat 

Put  fat  in  frying-pan,  when  very  hot,  add  the  potatoes,  salt 

and  pepper.     Cook  three  minutes,  allowing  to  cook  without 

stirring  for  two  minutes.    Fold  as  an  omelet  and  turn  onto  a 

hot  platter.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Pickled  Beets  (Four  portions) 

6  beets  2/2,  C-vinegar 

2  T-sugar 

Wash  the  medium-sized  beets  thoroughly,  and  cook  until 
tender  in  boiling  water.  Drain,  cover  with  cold  water  and  slip 
off  the  skins.  Slice  the  beets  into  one-fourth  inch  slices.  Cover 
with  vinegar  and  sugar.  Allow  to  stand  two  hours  before 
using. 

Brown  Betty  (Four  portions) 

2  C-sliced  apples  i  t-cinnamon 

I  C-fresh  bread  crumbs  3  T-butter 

%  C-brown  sugar  J^  C-water 

Mix  the  apples,  all  but  two  tablespoons  of  the  bread  crumbs, 
brown  sugar,  and  cinnamon.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  pour 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Pour  the  water  over  the  whole 
mixture.  Use  the  remainder  of  the  crumbs  and  a  little  melted 
butter  for  the  top.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.     Serve  hot  or  cold  with  hard  sauce. 

Hard  Sauce  for  Brown  Betty  (Four  portions) 

4  T-butter  H  t-vanilla  extract 

I  C-powdered   sugar  ^  t-lemon  extract 

I  t-boiling  water 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  boiling  water,  and  the  sugar 
gradually.  Stir  until  the  sauce  is  creamy.  Add  vanilla  and 
lemon  extract.     Set  in  the  ice-box  to  harden.     Serve  cold. 


CHAPTER  XLIIl 

SUNDAY  DINNER  AT  THE  DIXON'S 

^^VT'OU  seem  to  have  gained  in  weight,  Frank,"  said  Bob, 
-*-  as  he  and  Bettina  sat  down  to  Sunday  dinner  with  the 
Dixons. 

"And  what's  more,  I've  gained  in  spirits !  Say,  there's  noth- 
ing Hke  living  in  a  real  home !  Why,  people,  just  think  of 
having  Charlotte  say  to  me  as  she  did  yesterday,  Trank,  Bob 
and  Bettina  are  coming  to  dinner  to-morrow,  and  I  want  you 
to  plan  the  menu !'  And  here  it  is !  Excuse  me  for  seeming 
too  proud  of  my  own  good  judgment  and  my  wife's  skill  in 
cookery,  but " 

"Hush,  Frank !  Maybe  Bob  and  Bettina  won't  like  your 
choice  of  dishes  or  your  wife's  cooking!" 

"What!"  said  Bob.  "I  have  yet  to  meet  the  person  who 
doesn't  like  fried  chicken!  And  roasting  ears  and  new  pota- 
toes !    Sa-ay !" 

"It's  a  man-size  dinner  all  right,  isn't  it?"  said  Mr.  Dixon. 
"You  know  ever  since  I  was  a  boy  my  idea  of  Sunday  dinner 
(at  least  in  the  summer)  has  been  fried  chicken  with  gravy, 
new  potatoes,  boiled  corn  on  the  cob,  and  ice  cream  with  sliced 
peaches  !  Because  ice  cream  is  coming,  isn't  it,  Charlotte  ?  At 
least  I  ordered  it,  and  this  appears  to  be  my  lucky  day !" 

"Indeed,  it  is  coming,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon.  "You  see,  Bet- 
tina, ever  since  I  came  to  keep  house  (thanks  to  you)  I've 
longed  for  the  time  to  come  when  I  could  let  Frank  plan  a  com- 
pany meal  that  I  could  carry  out  to  the  last  detail.  I  have  tried 
all  these  things  before,  although  not  all  at  the  same  time.  I 
have  always  suspected  that  he  would  order  fried  chicken  and 

151 


152     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

its  accessories  (a  'little  boy  dinner'  I  called  this),  so  when  I 
t<7rd  him  that  he  might  plan  the  meal,  I  knew  that  I  could  cook 
it.  You  see,  I  have  wanted  to  invite  you  and  Bob — oh,  I've 
been  thinking  of  it  for  a  long  time,  but  you  can  cook  so  well 
that  I  thought  perhaps  you'd  rather  eat  at  home !" 

"Charlotte,  this  is  a  perfect  dinner — far  better  than  I  could 
gttj  I  know." 

"This  salad  is  an  acquired  taste  with  me,"  put  in  Mr.  Dixon. 
"In  my  boyhood,  my  ideal  dinner  did  not  include  salad,  but 
Charlotte  said  there  must  be  one,  so  this  was  my  choice.  I 
mixed  the  oil-dressing  myself,"  he  added  with  pride. 

"It  was  a  simple  dinner  to  get,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon.  "But  now, 
Frank,  we  mustn't  boast  any  more  about  our  own  dinner,  must 
we?  Bob  and  Bettina  will  laugh  at  us.  You  see,  we're  regu- 
lar children  since  we  took  the  house,  but  we  do  have  lots  of 
fun.  I  wouldn't  go  back  to  hotel  living  for  anything  in  the 
wQrldl" 

"And  neither  would  I,"  said  Frank,  "if  for  no  other  reason 
than  the  joy  of  entertaining  our  friends  at  dinner  this  way!" 

Their  Sunday  dinner  consisted  of : 

Fried   Chicken  New   Boiled   Potatoes 

Corn  on  the  Cob 

Bread  Butter 

Sliced  Cucumber,  Tomato  and  Onion  Salad 

Oil    Dressing 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  with  Peaches 

White  Cake  Iced  Tea 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

f  ^W  measurements  are  level) 

Vegetable  Salad  (Four  portions) 

2  medium-sized  tomatoes  1/2  cucumber 

I  onion 

Dressing 

4  T-vinegar  J/2  t-salt 

2  T-oil  54  t-paprika 

Cut  the  peeled  tomatoes  and  cucumber  in  one-third  inch 
cubes,  mix  with  the  onion  chopped  fine.     Add  the  dressing, 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  153 

which  has  been  well  mixed,  and  allow  to  stana  ten  minutes  in 
a  cold  place.     Serve  on  head  lettuce. 

Peaches  for  Ice  Cream  (Six  portions) 

2  C-peaches,  sliced  2/2,  C-sugar 

Add  the  sugar  to  the  peaches  and  allow  to  stand  in  the  ice 
Dox  for  ten  minutes.    Place  peaches  around  the  ice  cream. 

White  Cake  (Twenty  pieces) 

Yi  C-butter  Y^  t-salt 

lYz  C-sugar  I   C-milk 

2  2/2,  C-sifted  flour  4  tg^  whites,  beaten  stiffly 

5  t-baking  powder  I  t-vanilla 

Y2  t-lemon   extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  continue  creaming  for 
two  minutes.  Alternately  add  all  the  dry  ingredients  and  the 
milk.  Beat  well.  Cut  and  fold  in  the  egg-whites.  Add  the 
flavoring.  Bake  in  two  buttered  layer-cake  pans,  twenty-five 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.    Cover  with  "C"  sugar  icing. 

**C"  Sugar  Icing  (Twenty  portions) 

3  egg  whites  2/3  C-water 
3  C-"C"  sugar  i  t-vanilla 

Cook  the  sugar  and  water  together  without  stirring  until 
the  icing  "clicks"  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and 
pour  very  slowly  over  the  stiffly  beaten  egg-whites.  Beat  vigor- 
ously and  continuously  until  the  icing  gets  thick  and  creamy. 
Add  the  vanilla.     Spread  on  the  cake. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream   (Six  portions) 

I  qt.   cream  i  T-vanilla 

94  C-sugar  %  t-salt 

Mix  cream,  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt.  Place  in  a  scalded  and 
chilled  freezer.  Turn  until  the  mixture  stiffens.  Pack  for  two 
hours  to  ripen. 


CHAPTER  XLIV 

A  R.AINY  EVENING  AT  HOME 

*. 
C^npHIS  IS  just  the  kind  of  a  cold,  rainy  evening/*  said 
•*-     Bob  as  he  pushed  back  his  chair,  "that  makes  me  feel 
like  making  candy." 

"Fine!"  said  Bettina.    "What  kind  shall  it  be?" 

"Penoche,  if  you  have  all  the  ingredients." 

"I  think  I  have.  Let's  see.  It's  better  when  it's  made  partly 
with  *C  sugar,  and  I  have  that.  I  wonder  if  there  will  be 
enough  milk  left  for  breakfast  if  we  use  a  little !  Well,  penoche 
really  tastes  exactly  as  good  when  it  is  made  with  water  in- 
stead, though,  of  course,  it  isn't  so  rich.  But  then,  I  think,  we 
do  have  enough  milk." 

"First  of  all,  though,"  said  Bob,  "we'll  wash  these  dishes. 
It  was  a  mighty  good  dinner  tonight,  Bettina.  The  nice  kind  of 
a  hot  meal  that  it  seems  good  to  come  home  to  on  a  night  like 
this." 

"It  was  an  oven  dinner,  Bob.  You  see,  the  meat  loaf,  the 
escalloped  potatoes,  and  the  rice  pudding  were  all  in  the  oven 
at  once.  I  always  try  to  use  the  oven  for  more  than  one  dish 
if  I  am  using  it  at  all." 

"We  seem  to  have  eaten  all  of  this  tomato  sauce,"  said  Bob, 
ass  he  carried  out  the  dish,  "but  there  is  a  good  deal  of  meat 
left.    Will  you  have  to  make  more  sauce  ?" 

"No,  I  planned  just  enough  for  one  meal.  Then,  tomorrow, 
I'll  serve  the  rest  of  the  meat  cold  without  a  sauce.  How  did 
you  like  the  rice  pudding  hot  as  it  was  tonight?  You  know 
I  usually  serve  it  cold." 

"It  tasted  very  good  for  a  cold  evening.     There,  all  these 

154 


With  Bettina's  Best  Hecipes  155 

dishes  are  ready  to  wash,  Bettina.    Will  you  get  out  some  tea 
towels  for  me  ?" 

The  dinner  that  night  consisted  of : 

Hot  Beef  Loaf  Tomato  Sauce 

Escalloped   Potatoes 

Bread  Butter 

Rice  Pudding 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Beef  Loaf  (Five  portions) 

I  lb.  beef  cut  from  the  round  %  t-onion  salt 
%  lb.  salt  pork  %  C-cracker  or  bread  crumbs 

H  t-salt  I  egg  yolk 

54  t-pepper  i  T-milk 

I  T-butter 

Grind  the  meat  well,  and  mix  all  the  ingredients  excepting 
the  butter.  Pat  into  an  oblong  shape  and  place  in  a  well- 
buttered  pan.  Add  three  tablespoons  of  water  to  the  pan,  and 
place  the  butter  in  small  pieces  on  the  top  of  the  loaf.  Cover 
the  pan  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Tomato  Sauce  (Three  portions) 

1  C-tomatoes,   cut   up       i  slice    of    onion    or 
14  C-water  %  T-onion  salt 

2  bay  leaves  2  T-butter 
I  t-sugar  2  T-flour 

%  t-ground  cloves  1/3  t-salt 

Simmer  for  fifteen  minutes  the  tomatoes,  water,  bay  leaves, 
sugar,  cloves  and  onion.  Strain  and  press  out  all  the  pulp. 
Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  blend  well,  slowly  add  the 
strained  tomato  and  salt.  Cook  one  minute.  Serve  hot  on 
the  meat. 

Escalloped  Potatoes  (Three  portions) 

4  potatoes  (medium  sized)     i  T-salt 

2  T-flour  li  t-pepper 

2  T-butter  milk    (about    one    cup) 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes.  Slice  very  thin.  Mix  through 
the  sliced  potatoes,  the  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  the  butter  in 


156     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

small  pieces.  Place  the  mixture  in  a  well-buttered  pan  or  bak- 
ing dish,  and  cover  with  milk.  Usually  one  cup  suffices.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  to  fifty  minutes.  (Do  not  fill 
the  pan  more  than  three-fourths  full,  as  the  potatoes  will  boil 
over.) 

Rice  Pudding  (Three  portions) 

1%  C-milk  I  t-vanilla 

I  Qg^  I  C-cooked  rice 

4  T-sugar  i  t-butter 

J4  t-salt  Ys  t-grated  nutmeg 

Beat  the  &gg,  add  the  suger,  salt,  nutmeg,  vanilla,  and  milk. 
Add  the  rice.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  baking 
dish  and  dot  over  with  the  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty-five  minutes.  It  may  be  served  hot  or  cold.  Cream 
may  be  served  with  it  if  desired. 

Penoche 

2  C-"C"  sugar  2  A  C-milk 

I  C-granulated  sugar     ]/^  t-cream   ot    tartar 
I  T-butter  ^  C-nut-meats 

I  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  sugar,  butter,  milk  and  cream,  of  tartar.  Cook, 
stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  from  scorching,  until  a  soft 
ball  is  formed  when  a  little  candy  is  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  and  do  not  stir  until  it  is  cool.  Put  back 
on  the  stove  for  one  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from 
stove,  and  beat  vigorously  until  very  creamy.  Add  the  nuts 
and  vanilla.  When  hard  and  creamy,  remove  from  the  pan, 
patting  into  shape  and  kneading  until  soft  and  creamy.  Place 
on  a  buttered  pan,  patting  to  the  thickness  of  three-fourths  of 
an  inch.     Cut  into  the  desired  shape. 


SEPTEMBER, 

Apple-tree  J  apple-tree,  crowned  with  delight. 
Give  me  your  fruit  for  a  pie  if  you  will; 

Crusty  ril  make  it,  and  juicy  and  light! 

Give  me  your  treasure  to  mate  with  my  skill! 


CHAPTER   XLV 


RUTH  MAKES  AN  APPLE  PIE 


^^T'LL  tell  you,  Ruth,"  said 
A  Bettina,  in  answer  to  some 
questions,  "you  come  home  with 
me  now,  and  make  an  apple  pie 
for  our  dinner!  I'll  watch  and 
direct  you,  and  perhaps  I  can 
show  you  what  made  the  crust 
tough  on  the  one  you  made  at 
home.  Do  come.  I  can't  prom- 
ise you  an  elaborate  dinner  to- 
night, for  my  funds  are  very 
low  and  I  must  be  careful.  But  I  had  planned  to  make  an 
apple  pie  myself.  Bob  is  so  fond  of  it  that  no  matter  what  else 
we  may  have,  an  apple  pie  dinner  is  a  feast  to  him." 
"But  goodness,  Bettina !  I  might  spoil  it  I" 
"No,  you  wouldn't,  and  I  would  show  you  just  what  to  do. 
I  suspect  that  you  handled  the  dough  too  much  before  and 
that  was  what  made  the  pie  seem  tough." 

"I  suppose  I  did;  I  was  so  anxious  to  have  it  well  mixed." 

"Did  you  use  your  fingers  in  mixing  in  the  shortening?     I 

know  that  many  good  cooks  do  it,  but  it  is  really  better  to  use 

a  knife,  with  the  blade  flat.     And  then  roll  the  pastry  out  just 

as  lightly  as  possible." 

"Do  you  make  pastry  with  lard  or  butter?" 
"I  usually  make  it  with  an  equal  amount  of  each.     Lard 
makes  a  more  tender  crust  than  butter,  and  a  whiter  crust, 
but  I  think  butter  gives  it  a  better  flavor." 

159 


160    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Bettina  and  Ruth  had  reached  home  by  this  time,  and  Bet- 
tina  brought  out  the  materials  for  Ruth's  pie.  "I'll  give  you 
ice-water  to  moisten  the  pastry,"  said  she;  "it  isn't  necessary, 
but  it  is  really  better  in  the  summer  time.  And  while  you're 
mixing  in  the  shortening  with  this  knife,  I'll  be  cooking  some 
eggs  hard  for  eggs  a  la  goldenrod  which  I  am  going  to  give 
you  tonight." 

"Eggs  a  la  goldenrod !"  exclaimed  Ruth,  "How  good  that 
does  sound !" 

"It  is  a  very  good  luncheon-dish,  but  I  find  it  also  good 
for  dinner  when  I'm  not  having  meat.  I  think  it  looks  appe- 
tizing, too." 

"I  must  learn  how  to  make  it.  You  know  Father  comes  home 
at  noon,  and  it  is  hard  to  think  of  a  variety  of  luncheon-dishes. 
I  usually  have  eggs  or  cheese  in  some  form  or  other,  but  'eggs 
a  la  goldenrod,'  are  new  to  me." 

"We  also  have  cottage-cheese  tonight,"  said  Bettina.  "I 
plan  to  make  it  about  once  a  week.  Ruth,  I  believe  I  hear  Bob 
now!  Well,  he'll  have  to  wait  half  an  hour  or  more  for  his 
dinner !" 

That  night  they  had : 

Eggs  a  la  Goldenrod  Potato  Cakes 

Strained  Honey  Cottage   Cheese 

Bread  Butter 

Apple  Pie  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Eggs  a  la  Goldenrod  (Four  portions) 

3  hard-cooked    eggs   iH  C-milk 
3  T-butter  Vz  t-salt 

3  T-flour  %  t-pepper 

%  t-parsley 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well. 
Add  the  milk  gradually.  Cook  until  a  white  sauce  consistency. 
Add  chopped  egg-whites.  Pour  this  mixture  over  slices  cJ 
toast  arranged  on  a  platter.  Force  the  yolks  through  a  strainer 
on  top  of  the  sauce  on  the  toast.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
serve  hot. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  161 

Potato   Cakes    (Four  portions) 

2  G-mashed  potatoes         i  T-lard 
I  T-butter 

Form  cold  seasoned  mashed  potato  into  cakes  two  inches 
in  diameter.  Dip  the  cakes  lightly  into  a  little  flour.  Allow 
one  tablespoon  butter  and  one  tablespoon  lard  to  get  very  hot 
in  a  frying-pan.  Put  in  the  cakes,  brown  on  each  side,  and 
serve. 

Cottage  Cheese  (Four  portions) 

I  qt.  sour  milk     J4  t-paprika 
I  t-salt  I  T-cream 

Place  thick  freshly  soured  milk  over  a  pan  of  hot  water,  not 
boiling.  When  the  milk  is  warm  and  the  curds  separate  from 
the  whey,  strain  off  the  whey  in  a  cheese  cloth.  Put  into  a 
bowl,  add  salt,  pepper  and  cream  to  taste.  Stir  lightly  with  a 
fork. 

Some  of  Bettina*s  Pastry  Rules 

One — All  the  materials  must  be  cold. 

Two — Always  roll  one  way  and  on  one  side  of  the  pastry. 

Three — Shortening  should  be  handled  as  little  as  possible. 

Four — Dough  should  be  mixed  with  a  knife  and  not  touched 
with  the  hands. 

Five — Shortening  should  be  cut  in  with  a  knife. 

Six — Cook  pastry  in  a  hot  oven  having  the  greatest  heat 
at  the  bottom  so  that  it  may  rise  before  browning.  Crust  is 
done  when  it  slips  from  the  pan. 


CHAPTER   XLVI 
BETTINA  MAKES  APPLE  JELLY 

^^TTT^HAT  have  you  been  doing?"  asked  Bob,  as  he  and 

'  ^     Bettina  sat  down  to  dinner. 

"Oh,  Bob,  I've  had  the  nicest  day !  Mother  'phoned  me  this 
morning  that  Uncle  John  had  brought  her  several  big  baskets 
of  apples  from  the  farm,  and  that  if  I  cared  to  come  over  to 
help,  we  would  put  them  up  together,  and  I  might  have  half. 
Well,  we  made  apple  jelly,  plum  and  apple  jelly,  and  raspberry 
and  apple  jelly.  I  had  made  all  these  before,  and  knew  how 
good  they  were,  but  I  learned  something  new  from  Mother 
that  has  made  me  feel  happy  ever  since." 

"And  so  you  came  home,  and  in  your  enthusiasm  made  this 
fine  dandy  peach  cobbler  for  dinner!" 

"Bob,  that  was  the  very  way  I  took  to  express  my  joy!" 

"Well,  what  is  this  wonderful  new  apple  concoction?" 

"Perhaps  it  isn't  new,  but  it  was  new  to  me !  It  is  an  apple 
and  mint  jelly,  and  I  know  it  will  be  just  the  thing  to  serve 
with  meat  this  winter." 

"How  did  you  make  it?  (I  hope  you  are  noticing  how  inter- 
ested I'm  becoming  in  all  the  cooking  processes!)" 

"Well,  I  washed  and  cut  into  small  pieces  four  pounds  of 
greening  apples.  Then  I  washed  and  chopped  fine  one  cup 
of  fresh  mint,  and  added  it  to  the  apples.  I  covered  the  mix- 
ture with  water,  and  cooked  it  all  till  the  apples  were  so  tender 
that  they  were  falling  to  pieces.  I  strained  it  then,  and  used 
three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar  for  each  cup  of  juice.  I  cooked 
this  till  the  mixture  jellied,  and  then  I  added  four  teaspoons  of 

162 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  163 

lemon  juice  and  enough  green  vegetable  color  paste  to  give  it  a 
delicate  color." 

"Isn't  that  coloring  matter  injurious?" 

"Oh,  no,  Bob !  It's  exactly  as  pure  as  any  vegetable,  and  it 
gives  things  such  a  pretty  color.  Why,  I  use  it  very  often,  and 
I'm  sure  that  more  people  would  try  it  if  they  knew  how  suc- 
cessful it  is !  It  is  such  fun  to  experiment  with.  Of  course,  I 
never  use  anything  but  the  vegetable  coloring." 

"Well,  go  on  with  the  jelly.    What  next?" 

"That's  all,  I  think.  I  just  poured  it  into  glasses,  and  there 
it  is,  waiting  for  you  to  help  me  carry  it  home  from  Mother's. 
Now,  Bob,  won't  that  be  good  next  winter  with  cold  roast  beef 
or  cold  roast  veal  ?  I  know  it  will  be  just  the  thing  to  use  with 
a  pork  roast !" 

"I'm  growing  very  enthusiastic.  Sounds  fine.  But  speaking 
of  cooking,  this  is  a  mighty  good  dinner.  I  like  peach  cobbler 
as  well  as  any  dessert  there  is." 

"I'm  glad  you  like  it.  But  I  forgot  to  tell  you.  Bob,  that  I'm 
to  have  all  the  apples  I  can  use  in  the  fall.  Uncle  John  has 
promised  them  to  me.  Then  Mother  says  we'll  make  cider. 
Won't  that  be  fine  ?" 

"I  should  say  it  will!  Cider  and  doughnuts  and  pumpkin 
pie !  Makes  me  long  for  fall  already !  But  then,  I  like  green 
corn  and  watermelon  and  peaches,  so  I  suppose  I  can  wait." 

That  evening  Bettina  served  : 


Sliced  Beef  Lo 

af 

Sauted  Potatoes 

Creamed  Corn 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

Butter 

Peach   Cobbler 

Cream 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Sauted  Potatoes   (Two  portions) 

2  large  potatoes  cooked     ^  t-salt 
2  T-lard  Ya  t-pepper 


164     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Peel  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Put  two  tablespoons  of  lard  in 
the  frying-pan.  When  hot,  add  the  potatoes  and  season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Brown  thoroughly  on  all  sides.  (They 
should  cook  about  ten  minutes.) 


Creamed  Corn  (Two  portions) 

I  C-corn  cut  from  the       i  t-butter 

cob  I  T-milk    or    cream 

1/2  C-water  ^4  t-sugar 

%  t-salt 

Cook  the  corn  and  water  together  very  slowly  for  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  the  water  is  all  cooked  out.  (Place  on  an  as- 
bestos mat  to  prevent  burning.)  Add  butter,  milk,  sugar  and 
salt.    Serve  hot. 

Cinnamon  Rolls  (Twelve  rolls) 

2  T-s>ugar  ]4  C-lukewarm  water 

Vi  t-salt  iy2  C-flour 

I  C-milk    (scalded   and         3  T-butter 
lukewarm)  4  T-sugar 

I  yeast  cake  %   C-butter 

14  C-sugar 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  scalded  milk.  When  lukewarm,  add  the 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water. 
Add  one  and  a  half  cups  flour.  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  When  double  in  bulk,  add  the  butter  (melted),  four 
tablespoons  sugar  and  more  flour  (enough  to  knead).  Let 
rise,  knead  and  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  spread 
with  a  mixture  made  by  adding  melted  butter,  one  and  a 
fourth  cups  sugar  and  the  cinnamon.  Roll  up  like  a  jelly 
roll.  Cut  in  slices  three-fourths  inch  thick.  Place  in  a  pan  one 
inch  apart,  let  rise  again.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
twenty-five  minutes. 

Peach  Cobbler  (Two  portions) 


I   C-flour 

3  good-sized  neaches 

I  t-baking 

powder 

1/3  C-sugar 

Ys  t-salt 

%   t-vanilla 

I  T-butter 

14   C-sugar 

%  C-milk 

J^  C-water 

With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  165 

Cut  the  butter  into  the  dry  ingredients  (baking  powder,  salt 
and  flour),  and  add  the  milk.  (The  resulting  dough  should  be 
of  biscuit  dough  consistency.)  Peel  and  slice  the  peaches,  mix 
well  with  the  sugar  (one-third  cup)  and  place  on  the  bottom  of 
a  baking  dish,  (not  tin.)  Place  dough  shaped  to  fit.  on  the 
top  of  the  peaches.  Make  three  holes  to  allow  the  steam  to 
escape.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Boil  the 
sugar  and  water  four  minutes.  When  the  cobbler  has  cooked 
for  twenty  minutes,  pour  the  syrup  over  it  and  allow  to  cook 
ten  minutes  more.  Cream  may  be  served  with  the  cobbler  if 
desired. 


CHAPTER  XLVII 
AFTER  A  PARK  PARTY 

C^   A   BEAUTIFUL  day,"  said  Bettina  at  the  breakfast  table. 

jl\   "September  is  doing  better  than  August." 

"I  was  just  thinking,"  said  Bob,  "that  it  might  be  fun  to  get 
Harry  and  AHce,  and  go  out  to  Killkare  park  this  evening.  I 
don't  beHeve  you've  been  on  a  roller  coaster  this  year." 

"It  would  be  fun  to  go,"  said  Bettina,  "although  I  haven't 
missed  the  roller  coaster." 

"Well,  let's  ask  them  to  go.  We  can  stay  there  awhile  and 
then " 

"Then  what?" 

"Oh,  nothing.    Then  go  home." 

"Bob,  you  meant — come  here  afterward  and  have  a  nice  lit- 
tle lunch ;  didn't  you  ?" 

"I  confess  that  I  thought  of  that,  and  then  I  happened  to 
remember  that  you  were  going  out  this  afternoon  and  wouldn't 
want  to  bother  with  any  preparations  for  a  party." 

"Going  out  this  afternoon  would  not  worry  me  at  all — it  is 
just  that  my  funds  are  getting  a  little  low,  and  I  couldn't  serve 
anything  expensive.  Let  me  think  what  I  have  on  hand — ^yes, 
I  believe  I  could  do  it  by  serving  a  salad  and  a  dessert  out  of 
my  own  head." 

"A  Bettina  salad?  That's  the  very  best  kind.  And  what 
will  the  dessert  be?" 

"A  Bettina  dessert,  too.  I  have  some  lovely  apples.  Bob,  and 
I  just  can't  afford  anything  very  expensive.    I  know  this  wiU 

1 66 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  167 

be  good,  too,  but  you  mustn't  complain  if  I  have  sponge  cake 
to  eat  with  it." 

"I  should  say  not,  Bettina.  Whatever  you  give  us  will  tickle 
me,  and  Alice  and  Harry  are  in  such  a  state  of  blindness  that 
they  won't  know  what  they're  eating." 

That  evening  they  had  : 

Bettina  Salad  Boston   Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 

Bettina's  Apples  Sponge  Cake 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bettina  Salad   (Four  portions) 

1  C-chopped  New  York  cheese  %  C-chopped  roasted  peanuts 

12  Pimento  stuffed  olives,  ^  t-salt 

chopped  %  t-paprika 

3  sweet    pickles,    chopped    very  4  T-salad  dressing 

fine  4  pieces  of  lettuce 

Put  the  cheese  through  the  food  chopper  or  grate  it,  add  the 
olives  chopped,  the  sweet  pickles,  peanuts,  salt  and  paprika. 
Blend  well,  and  form  into  balls,  one  inch  in  diameter.  Ar- 
range several  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Serve  salad  dressing  with  the 
salad. 

Bettina's  Apples   (Six  apples) 

6  apples  8  marshmallows 

I  C-"C"    sugar     j4  C-cocoanut  shredded 

I  C-water  6  cherries 

Peel  and  core  the  apples.  Drop  into  the  sugar  and  water 
which  has  been  boiled  for  ten  minutes  to  form  a  syrup.  Place 
a  lid  on  the  pan  and  cook  the  apples  until  tender.  Remove 
from  the  syrup  and  roll  in  the  cocoanut.  Add  the  marshmal- 
lows to  the  syrup  (which  has  been  removed  from  the  fire)  and 
allow  them  to  melt.  Stir  them  in  the  syrup.  When  the  marsh- 
mallows  are  dissolved,  stir  the  mixture  to  mix  the  marsh- 
mallows  with  the  syrup.  Pour  around  the  apple,  and  fill  the 
hole  in  the  center  of  the  apple.  Place  a  red  cherry  on  the  top 
oi  each. 


168     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake  (Eight  portions) 

2  egg-yolks  i  t-grated  rind  Imon 

I  C-sugar  2  egg-whites 

14  C-boiling  water  i  C-flour 

I  T-lemon  juice  i  t-baking  powder 

K  t-salt 

Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  the  sugar 
gradually  and  beat  for  two  minutes.  Add  the  flour,  sifted 
with  the  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Add  the  boiling  water, 
lemon  juice,  and  grated  rind.  Beat  with  a  Dover  egg-beater, 
two  minutes.  Fold  in  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  thirty-five 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  in  an  unbuttered  pan.  Do  not  cut 
sponge  cake,  except  through  the  crust,  then  break  apart. 


J 


CHAPTER   XLVIII 

BETTINA  SPILLS  THE  INK 

C^TTTHERE  are  you,  Bettina?"  called  Bob  one  September 
▼V      evening  when  Bettina  failed  to  meet  him  at  the  door. 
"Oh,  Bettina !" 

*'Here  I  am,  Bob,  in  the  kitchen!  I'm  so  ashamed  of  my- 
self r 

"What  for?" 

"My  carelessness.  I  just  spilled  a  whole  bottle  of  ink  on 
this  new  apron  of  mine!  I  had  begun  to  get  dinner,  and  as  it 
was  a  little  early,  I  sat  down  for  a  minute  to  finish  a  letter  to 
Polly.  Then  all  at  once  I  thought  something  was  burning,  and 
jumped  up  in  such  a  hurry  that  I  spilled  the  ink.  I  ought  to 
have  known  better  than  to  try  to  do  two  things  at  once !  Luck- 
ily, the  dinner  was  all  right,  but  look  at  this  apron!  And  it 
was  such  a  pretty  one  !" 

"Well,  Bettina,  I'm  always  getting  ink  and  auto  grease  on  my 
clothes,  and  you  seem  to  keep  yours  spotless.  So  it  is  a  sur- 
prise to  me  that  it  happened.  Still,  spoiling  a  new  apron  may 
be  unfortunate,  but  I  shouldn't  call  it  tragic.  Is  it  really 
spoiled  ?" 

"No,  I  think  I  can  fix  it  up  so  it  will  be  almost  as  good  as 
new,  but  it's  a  nuisance.  See,  I'm  soaking  it  in  this  sour  milk. 
ril  leave  it  here  for  four  hours,  and  then  apply  some  more 
milk  for  awhile.  Then  I  believe  the  ink  will  come  out  when  I 
rinse  it." 

"Well,  Bettina,  I'm  glad  you  didn't  spill  ink  on  the  dinner. 
Something  smells  mighty  good  !" 

169 


170    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

They  had: 

Beef  Balls  Gravy 

Mashed    Potatoes 

Bettina's  Celery  and  Eggs 

Cinnamon  Rolls  Butter 

Watermelon 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Beef   Balls    (Three   portions) 

I  lb.  round  steak     ^  t-paprika 

I  t-salt  ^  t-celery    salt 

%  t-onion  salt 

Grind  round  steak,  season,  shape  into  round  cakes  and  broil 
them  for  seven  minutes  under  the  flame.  While  they  are  cook- 
ing, prepare  the  horseradish  sauce. 

Horseradish  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter        i  C-milk 
2  T-flour  2  T-horseradish 

H  t-salt 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour.    Mix  well,  add  the  milk  and 

cook  one  minute.    Add  the  salt  and  the  horseradish.     Serve 

immediately. 

Mashed  Potatoes  (Three  portions) 

4  medium-sized   potatoes       J^  C-milk 
iy2  T-butter  H  t-salt 

H  t-pepper 

Cook  the  potatoes  (peeled)  in  boiling  salted  water.  When 
done,  drain  ofT  the  water,  pass  through  a  vegetable  ricer,  or 
mash  well  with  a  potato  masher.  Add  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and 
the  milk.    Beat  vigorously,  reheat  and  pile  lightly  in  a  hot  dish. 

Bettina's  Celery  and  Eggs   (Three  portions) 

1  C-cooked  diced  celery        2/3  C-vegetable  white  sauce 

2  hard-cooked  eggs  sliced  i  T-butter 

3  T-fresh  bread  crumbs 

Add  the  sliced  hard-cooked  eggs  and  cooked  celery  to  the 
white  sauce.  Mix  well.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered 
baking  dish.  Cover  with  the  crumbs  which  have  been  mixed 
with  melted  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  delicate 
brown.     (About  twenty  minutes.) 


CHAPTER  XLIX 

BETTINA  ATTENDS  A  PORCH  PARTY 

^^TTT'ELL,  what  have  you  been  doing  today?"  asked  Bob, 
^y     after  he  had  finished  an  account  of  events  at  the 
office. 

"Pve  been  away  all  afternoon,  Bob,  at  the  loveliest  little 
porch  party  at  Alice's !  You  know  her  porch  is  beautiful,  any- 
how, and  her  party  was  very  informal.  She  telephoned  to 
five  of  us  this  morning,  and  asked  us  to  come  over  and  bring 
our  sewing;  the  day  was  so  perfect.  She  served  a  delicious 
little  luncheon  from  her  tea  cart,  very  simple  but  so  good !  And 
the  beauty  of  it  was  that  she  had  made  everything  herself ! 
She  didn't  tell  the  girls,  but  she  whispered  it  to  me.  Of  course, 
if  she  had  told  the  others,  she  would  have  given  herself  away ; 
they  are  a  little  suspicious  of  her  now  because  she  is  seen  every- 
where with  Harry !" 

"He  told  me  he  wished  they  could  announce  it  right  away ! 
He  doesn't  like  to  make  a  secret  of  it." 

"It  won't  be  very  long  now — you  know  they  are  to  be  mar- 
ried in  October  or  November.  But,  Bob,  as  I  was  telling  you, 
Alice  did  all  the  cooking  for  this  party  herself.  Of  course,  it 
was  simple,  but  really,  I  think  she  is  quite  wonderful.  She  has 
never  done  anything  useful  before,  but  she  is  so  clever,  and 
she  has  such  a  'knack'  that  it  will  really  be  easier  for  her  than 
for  Ruth.  And  Ruth  will  work  twice  as  hard.  Alice  says  that 
she  is  going  to  give  other  little  parties  this  way,  and  practice 
on  her  guests.  She  says  she  is  determined  to  do  things  just 
as  well  as  anybody  else,  and  now  that  she  is  interested,  she 
has  a  tremendous  pride  in  being  a  success.    You  know  how. 

171 


172     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Hush  and 

high-spirited  AHce  is.  Well,  she  isn't  to  be  surpassed  by  any- 
one in  anything  she  cares  to  do !  Oh,  I  forgot,  Bob,  she  gave 
me  some  cakes  to  bring  to  you,  and  also  some  salted  nuts." 

"Hurray  for  Alice!  She's  some  friend  all  right!  What 
else  did  you  have  at  the  party  ?" 

"Such  good  salad — she  gave  me  the  recipe — well,  her  menu 
consisted  of : 

Honolulu  Salad  Graham  Bread  Sandwiches 

Frozen  Apricots  White  Cake 

Salted  Nuts  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Honolulu  Salad  (Six  portions) 

6  slices  canned  pineapple  J4  t-salt 

^  C-cottage    cheese  6  nut-meat  halves 

I  T-chopped    pimento  6  pieces  of  lettuce 

I  t-chopped  green  pepper  6  T-salad  dressing 

Add  the  chopped  pimento,  green  pepper  and  salt  to  the  cot- 
tage cheese.  Work  all  together  well,  shape  into  balls  one  inch 
in  diameter.  Place  a  ball  in  the  center  of  each  slice  of  pine- 
apple, which  has  been  arranged  upon  a  piece  of  lettuce.  Place 
a  nut  meat  upon  the  top  of  each  cheese  ball.  Serve  one  table- 
spoon of  salad  dressing  upon  each  service. 

Frozen  Apricots  (Six  portions) 

2  C-peeled  and  quar-    2  T-lemon  juice 

tered  apricots  I  C-water 

I  C-sugar  I  egg-white 

Cook  apricots,  sugar  and  water  until  the  apricots  are  soft. 
(About  five  minutes.)  Cool,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  freeze. 
When  the  mixture  is  half  frozen,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  white 
and  continue  freezing  until  stiff.  More  sugar  may  be  used  if 
desired. 


CHAPTER   L 

A  DINNER  COOKED  IN  THE  MORNING 

C«TT7E'LL  treat  Uncle  Eric  so  well  that  he'll  have  a  good 
▼  V  time  in  spite  of  himself,"  Bob  had  said  when  he  had 
proposed  that  his  gruff  old  uncle  be  invited.  "I'll  take  Satur- 
day afternoon  off,  and  we'll  go  to  the  matinee,  then  we'll  come 
home  to  dinner,  and  then  go  again  to  the  theatre  in  the  eve- 
ning." For  a  great  actor  was  to  be  in  town,  and  this  was  the 
reason  for  Uncle  Eric's  possible  visit.  ''If  he'll  only  come," 
Bob  had  added  doubtfully. 

"He'll  come,"  said  Bettina  confidently,  for  she  felt  that  she 
had  discovered  the  soft  spot  in  Uncle  Eric's  heart.  "We'll 
have  a  good  dinner,  too." 

Bob  remembered  what  she  had  said  about  the  dinner  and 
repeated  it  to  himself  as  they  stepped  from  the  street  car  after 
the  matinee.  "It's  late,  Bettina,"  he  said  anxiously,  "will  it 
take  you  long  to  get  dinner?" 

"A  very  few  minutes,"  answered  Bettina.  "Just  long  enough 
to  warm  it  over." 

To  warm  it  over!  But  then,  all  of  Bettina's  dinners  were 
good,  so  he  resolved  not  to  worry.  Nevertheless,  he  could  not 
help  leaving  Uncle  Eric  for  a  few  minutes  to  come  into  the 
kitchen.     "What  can  I  do  to  help?" 

"Not  a  thing,  Bob  dear.  You  see,  I  had  this  whole  dinner 
ready  this  morning,  and  I  have  warmed  it  all  up  in  the  oven. 
I  have  discovered  that  croquettes  are  exactly  as  good  when 
fried  in  the  morning,  and  so  are  veal  cutlets.  And  wait  till 
you  try  the  cauliflower !" 

173 


174     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Hiisband 

"I  trust  you,  Bettina,"  said  Bob,  laughing.     "It  all  looks 
mighty  good  to  me.     Here,  I'll  help  you  put  it  on  the  table." 
For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Veal    Cutlets  Potato    Croquettes 

Escalloped   Cauliflower 

Baked  Apples 

Bread  Butter 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  White  Cake 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Veal  Cutlets  (Three  portions) 

I  lb.    H-inch    slices   of  14  t-paprika 

veal  cut  from  the  leg  1/3  t-salt 

I  t-salt  I  egg-white  or  yolk 

Ij/^  pints  of  water  i  T-water 

I  C-cracker  crumbs  Hot  fat  for  frying 

Wipe  the  meat,  place  in  one  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling 
water,  to  which  has  been  added  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Boil  gently  until  tender  (about  thirty  minutes).  Remove  from 
the  water  and  allow  to  cool  until  easy  to  handle.  Remove  the 
bone  and  skin,  and  cut  into  pieces  for  serving.  Mix  the 
paprika,  salt  (one-third  of  a  teaspoon)  and  the  cracker  crumbs. 
Roll  each  piece  of  meat  in  the  crumbs,  then  in  the  egg,  to 
which  the  water  has  been  added,  and  again  in  the  crumbs. 
Pat  the  crumbs  onto  the  meat.  Arrange  the  meat  on  a  platter 
and  allow  to  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Have  sufficient  fat  in  a 
pan  to  cover  articles  of  food.  When  the  fat  is  smoking  hot, 
add  the  veal  cutlets,  and  turn  to  cook  each  side.  When  a 
delicate  brown  (after  about  five  minutes),  remove  and  drain 
on  paper.  Keep  hot  in  the  oven.  Place  the  veal  cutlets  on  a 
platter  and  arrange  baked  apples  around  the  edges.  Serve  the 
potato  croquettes  on  the  same  platter,  garnished  with  parsley. 

Potato  Croquettes  (Three  portions) 

I  C-hot   mashed   or       i  egg-yolk 
riced    potatoes  i  T-milk 

%  t-celery   salt  i  t-salt 

J^  t-chopped  parsley       i  T-butter 
%  t-onion  extract  ^  t-paprika 

3  T-flour 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  175 

Mix  the  mashed  potatoes,  celery  salt,  parsley,  onion  extract, 
egg  yolk,  milk,  salt,  butter  and  paprika.  Beat  two  minutes. 
Shape  into  balls  two  inches  in  diameter.  Roll  in  flour  and 
allow  to  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Cook  in  deep  fat  three  minutes 
or  more  until  a  delicate  brown.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and 
keep  hot  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Escalloped  Cauliflower   (Three  portions) 

I  small  head  of  cauliflower     ij^  C-vegetable    white    sauce, 

I  qt.  water  seasoned 

I  t-salt  %  C-buttered  crumbs 

Soak  the  cauliflower  in  cold  water  to  which  a  tablespoon  of 
vinegar  has  been  added.  Cut  apart  and  cook  in  a  quart  of 
water  to  which  salt  has  been  added.  Make  white  sauce  and 
add  the  cauliflower.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  baking  dish. 
Cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 


CHAPTER   LI 

A   SUNDAY   DINNER 

^^TX /"E  have  gone  'over  home'  for  so  many  Sunday  dinners 
▼  ^     lately,"  Bettina  had  said  to  her  mother,  "that  I  want 
you  and  father  to  come  here  tomorrow." 

**But,  Bettina,"  her  mother  protested,  "isn't  it  too  much 
work  for  you?    And  won't  you  be  going  to  church?" 

"I  can't  go  to  church  tomorrow,  anyhow,  for  Bob's  Uncle 
Eric  is  to  be  in  town  all  morning ;  he  leaves  at  noon,  and  the 
Dixons  have  offered  us  their  car  to  take  him  for  a  drive. 
Don't  worry,  Mother,  I'll  have  a  simple  dinner — a  Voast  beef 
dinner,'  I  believe.     I  often  think  that  is  the  very  easiest  kind." 

Sunday  morning  was  so  beautiful  that  Bettina  could  not  bear 
to  stay  indoors.  Accordingly,  she  set  the  breakfast  table  on 
the  porch,  even  though  Uncle  Eric  protested  that  it  was  too 
far  for  her  to  walk  back  and  forth  with  the  golden  brown 
waffles  she  baked  for  his  especial  delight.  When  he  and  Bob 
had  eaten  two  "batches,"  Uncle  Eric  insisted  that  he  could 
bake  them  himself  for  a  while.  He  installed  Bettina  in  her 
chair  at  the  table,  and  forced  waffles  upon  her  till  she  begged 
for  mercy. 

"Gracious!"  Bettina  exclaimed  as  she  heard  the  "honk"  of 
the  Dixons'  automobile  at  the  door.  "There  are  the  Dixons 
already  and  we  have  just  finished  breakfast!  Bob,  you  and 
Uncle  Eric  will  have  to  go  on  without  me,  for  I  must  get  the 
roast  in  the  oven  and  do  the  morning's  work." 

"Well,  I  learned  today  to  make  waffles,"  said  Uncle  Eric. 

For  dinner  that  day  Bettina  served : 

176 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  177 

Roast  Beef  Brown  Gravy 

Browned  Potatoes  Baked  Squash 

Lettuce  French  Dressing 

Lemon  Sherbet  Devil's  Food  Cake 

Cofifee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Roast  Beef   (Eight  portions) 

35^  lb.  rump  roast  of  beef        2  t-salt 
4  T-flour  ^  C-hot  water 

Roll  the  roast  in  the  flour  and  set  on  a  rack  in  a  dripping- 
pan.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  sear  over  all  sides.  Sprinkle 
the  salt  over  the  meat  and  add  the  hot  water.  Cover  the  meat 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven.  Baste  every  fifteen  minutes. 
Allow  fifteen  minutes  a  pound  for  a  rare  roast,  and  twenty 
minutes  a  pound  for  a  well  done  roast.  When  properly  done, 
the  outside  fat  is  crisp  and  brown. 

Brown  Potatoes  (Six  portions) 

6  potatoes    i    t-salt 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  Forty 
minutes  before  the  roast  is  to  be  done,  add  the  potatoes.  Dur- 
ing the  last  ten  minutes  of  cooking  the  lid  may  be  removed 
from  the  meat  and  potatoes  to  allow  all  to  brown  nicely. 

Browned  Gravy  (Six  portions) 

4  T-beef  drip-  i  C-water 

pings 
2  T-flour  li  t-salt 

Place  four  tablespoons  of  beef  drippings  in  a  pan,  add 
the  flour  and  allow  to  brown.  Add  the  rest  of  the  drippings, 
the  water  and  the  salt.     Cook  two  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Baked  Squash    (Six  portions) 

1  squash  ij^  t-salt 

2  T-butter  ^  t-paprika 

Wash  and  wipe  the  squash,  and  cut  into  halves,  then  quar- 
ters.    Remove  the  seeds.     Place  the  pieces  of  squash,  skin 


178    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

down,  in  a  baking-dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
tender  (about  one  hour).  Remove  from  the  oven,  mash  up 
with  a  fork,  and  add  to  each  portion  one-half  a  teaspoon  of 
butter,  one-fourth  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one-eighth  a  teaspoon 
of  paprika.     Reheat  in  the  oven  and  serve  hot. 

Devil's  Food  Cake  (Sixteen  pieces) 

1/3  C-butter  i  t-vanilla 

I  C-sugar  2/s  t-soda 

1  Qg^  2  C-flour 
2/3  C-sour    milk 

2  squares  of   melted  chocolate 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  continue  to  cream  the 
mixture.  Add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  the  chocolate.  Mix 
well.  Add  the  soda  and  flour  sifted  together,  and  the  sour  milk 
and  vanilla.  Beat  three  minutes.  Bake  in  two  layer  cake  pans 
prepared  with  waxed  p-^per  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Icing  (Sixteen  portions) 

2  C-"C"    sugar         2  egg-whites  beaten  stiffly 
^2  C-water  l  t-vanilla 

Cook  the  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  clicks  wnen  a 
little  is  dropped  into  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Pour  slowly  over 
the  beaten  tgg  whites.  Beat  vigorously  until  creamy.  Add  the 
vanilla.  Pour  on  one  layer  of  the  cake.  Place  the  upper  layer 
on  top,  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  icing  upon  it.  Spread  evenly 
over  the  top  and  over  the  sides. 


CHAPTER   LII 
BOB   MAKES   PEANUT   FUDGE 

^^T  USUALLY  complain  when  it  rains — I  have  that  habit — 

■■•  but  I  must  confess  that  I  like  a  rainy  evening  at  home 
once  in  a  while,"  said  Bob,  as  he  and  Bettina  sat  down  at  the 
dinner  table.     "Dinner  on  a  rainy  night  always  seems  so  cozy." 

"Liver  and  bacon  don't  constitute  a  very  elaborate  dinner," 
said  Bettina.  "But  they  taste  good  for  a  change.  And  oh, 
Bob,  tonight  I  want  you  to  try  a  new  recipe  I  heard  of — peanut 
fudge.     It  sounds  delicious." 

"I'm  there,"  said  Bob.  "I  was  just  thinking  it  would  be  a 
good  candy  evening.  Then,  when  the  candy  is  done,  we'll 
assemble  under  the  new  reading  lamp  and  eat  it." 

"Yes,  it'll  be  a  good  way  to  initiate  the  reading  lamp !  Wasn't 
it  dear  of  Uncle  Eric  to  give  it  to  us?  I  kept  wondering  why 
he  was  so  anxious  to  know  just  what  I  planned  to  do  with 
the  money  I  won  for  my  nut  bread  at  the  fair.  I  even  took 
him  around  and  pointed  out  this  particular  lamp  as  the  thing 
I  had  been  saving  for.  And  here  it  arrived  the  day  after  he 
left,  as  a  gift  to  me!  It  was  dear  of  Uncle  Eric!  But  now 
what  on  earth  shall  I  do  with  my  fair  money  ?" 

"Don't  worry  about  that,  Bettina.     Put  it  in  the  bank." 

"But  I'd  like  to  get  something  as  sort  of  a  monument  to  my 
luck.     Have  you  any  particular  needs.  Bob?" 

"Not  a  need  in  the  world!  Except  for  one  more  of  those 
fine  fruit  gems  over  there." 

That  night  they  had  for  dinner: 

Liver  and  Bacon  Creamed  Turnips 

Fruit  Gems  Apple  Sauce 

Tea 

179 


180     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed  Turnips  (Two  portions) 


1  C-turnip  cubes 

1  T-flour 

3  t-salt 

Vi  t-salt 

1  T-butter 

H  C-milk 

Peel  the  turnips.  Cut  into  one-half  inch  cubes.  Soak  in 
cold  water  ten  minutes.  Cook  in  boiling  water  in  an  uncovered 
utensil  until  transparent  no  longer.  Drain  and  sprinkle  with 
salt.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  the  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  blend  well,  add  the  milk  gradually  and  cook  until 
creamy.     Add  the  turnips  and  serve. 

Liver  and  Bacon   (Two  portions) 

4  slices  bacon       i  t-salt 
2/3  lb.  liver  54  t-paprika 

3  T-flour 

Cover  slices  of  calves'  liver  cut  one-half  inch  thick  with 
boiling  water.  Allow  to  stand  five  minutes.  Drain  and  cut 
into  pieces  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll 
in  flour.  Have  a  frying  pan  very  hot.  Add  sliced  bacon. 
When  the  bacon  has  cooked  on  each  side,  pile  up  on  one  side  of 
the  pan  and  add  the  liver,  placing  a  piece  of  bacon  on  top  of 
each  portion  of  liver,  thus  preventing  the  bacon  from  getting 
too  well  done,  and  also  seasoning  the  liver.  Brown  the  liver 
thoroughly  on  both  sides.  (It  should  be  cooked  about  ten 
minutes.)     Serve  hot. 

Fruit  Gems    (Nine   Gems) 

2  C-flour  ^   C-milk 

3  t-baking    powder  i  t^g, 

3  T-sugar  i  T-melted    butter 

yi  t-salt  1/3  C-seeded,   chopped 

raisins  or  currants 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt.  Break  the 
^gg  into  the  milk,  stir  well,  pour  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat 
vigorously  one  minute.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  raisins  or 
currants.  Bake  in  nine  well  buttered  gem  pans  for  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  181 

Peanut  Fudge   (Six  portions) 


I  C-"C"  sugar 

2/3  C-milk                                                      ■ 

I  C-granulated    sugar 

I  T-butter                                                -j 

54  t-cream  of  tartar 

I  t-vanilla                                                   < 

2  squares  of  chocolate 

J/2  C-broken  peanuts 

Mix  the  sugar,  cream  of  tartar,  chocolate,  milk  and  butter. 
Cook  over  a  moderate  fire  until  the  fudge  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  a  little  is  dropped  into  cold  water.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  allow  to  stand  without  stirring  for  twenty  minutes.  Beat 
vigorously  until  creamy.  Add  the  vanilla  and  peanuts.  When 
very  thick  remove  to  a  buttered  plate.  Allow  to  harden  and 
cut  in  squares. 


CHAPTER   LIII 

DINNER  AT  THE  DIXONS 

^^T  S  it  still  as  much  fun  to  keep  house  as  it  was  at  first, 
-■-    Charlotte^f*"  asked  Bettina  as  she  and  Bob  sat  down  to 

dinner  with  the  Dixons. 

"Fun?"  said  Charlotte.  "Bettina,  look  at  me!  Or  better 
still,  look  at  Frank !  And  the  funny  part  of  it  all  is  that  Aunt 
Isabel  thinks  our  keeping  house  is  a  result  of  her  preach- 
ments against  boarding  and  hotel  living.  Why,  she  quite  ap- 
proves of  me  now !  And  I'll  just  keep  quiet  and  let  her  feel 
that  she  was  the  one  who  did  it,  but  all  the  while  in  my  heart 
I'll  be  remembering  that  it  was  the  sight  of  your  happiness 
that  roused  my  ambition  to  make  a  home  myself." 

"I  tell  you,"  said  Mr.  Dixon,  "we  can  never  thank  you 
enough,  Bettina.  Now  shall  I  play  'Home  Sweet  Home'  on  the 
piano?    And  will  you  all  join  in  the  chorus?" 

"Not  if  you  sing,  too,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  smiling  at  her 
husband's  foolishness.  "I've  learned  a  great  deal  from  you, 
since  I  began,  Bettina,  and  not  the  smallest  lesson  is  that  of 
having  company  without  dreading  it.  I  don't  try  to  make 
things  elaborate,  just  dainty  and  simple  food  such  as  we  have 
every  day.  Why,  tonight  I  didn't  make  a  single  change  for 
you  and  Bob !  And  I  don't  believe  I  should  dread  even  Aunt 
Isabel's  sudden  arrival  now." 

"Aunt  Isabel  is  really  a  good  soul,  Bettina,"  said  Frank. 
"Charlotte  has  never  learned  how  much  worse  her  bark  is  than 
her  bite,  and  she  takes  it  to  heart  when  Aunt  Isabel  speaks 
her  mind.     Why,  I  remember  so  well  the  scoldings  she  used 

182 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  183 

to  give  me  when  I  was  a  boy,  and  the  cookies  she  would  man- 
age to  treat  me  with  afterward!  I  used  to  anticipate  those 
pleasant  scoldings !" 

"If  a  scolding  always  comes  before  food,"  said  Bob,  "Char- 
lotte must  have  given  you  an  extra  good  one  before  inviting 
us  to  partake  of  that  delicious-looking  chocolate  pie!" 

That  evening  they  had : 

Cold  Sliced  Ham  Creamed  Potatoes 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Rice 

Peach   Butter 

Chocolate  Pie 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Rice  (Six  portions) 

6  tomatoes  2  T-grated      cheese 

1/2  C-rice,    cooked         i  t-chopped    onion 

y2  C-green  pepper,  54  t-salt 
chopped  I  T-butter 

Remove  a  piece  one  inch  in  diameter  from  the  stem  end  of 
-jach  tomato.  Take  out  the  seeds.  Fill  the  shells  with  the 
rice,  pepper,  cheese,  onion  and  salt,  well  mixed.  Place  a  small 
dot  of  butter  on  top  of  each.  Place  in  a  small  pan  and  bake 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Chocolate  Pie  Crust   (Six  portions) 

I  C-flour        Ya,  t-salt 
1/3  C-lard  3  T-ice  water 

Mix  the  flour  and  salt,  cut  in  the  lard  with  a  knife,  add  the 
liquid  slowly,  stirring  with  the  knife.  More  water  may  be 
needed.  Roll  out  thin,  fit  onto  a  tin  pan,  prick  with  holes, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  light  brown  (about  seven  min- 
utes). 

Filling  (Six  portions) 


1  C-sugar 

2  egg  yolks 

5  T-flour 

ij^  squares  melted 

H  t-salt 

chocolate 

2  C-milk 

y2  t-vanilla 

184    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  well  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Add  gradually  the  milk 
and  beaten  tgg  yolks.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  fifteen  min- 
utes. Add  the  melted  chocolate.  Cook  until  thick  (about  ten 
minutes),  and  add  the  vanilla.  Fill  the  baked  shell,  and  cover 
with  meringue.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook  until  the 
meringue  is  a  delicate  brown  (about  five  minutes). 

Meringue 

2  tgz  whites    4  T-sugar 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff.  Add  the  sugar.  Pile 
lightly  on  the  chocolate  mixture.  Brown  in  the  oven.  Choco- 
late pie  should  be  served  cold. 


CHAPTER   LIV 

A  GOOD-BY  LUNCHEON   FOR  BERNADETTE 

^^"DIG  success!"  was  what  Bettina's  eyes  telegraphed  to 
-■-'  Ruth  across  the  purple  and  white  asters  in  the  center 
of  a  long  porch  table.  Ruth  was  giving  a  farewell  luncheon 
for  Bernadette,  her  young  cousin,  who  was  leaving  that  night 
for  a  fashionable  New  York  school.  Although  there  was  no 
suggestion  of  it  in  the  dainty  dishes  the  two  girls  served  to  the 
hungry  and  vivacious  young  guests,  Ruth  was  "trying  out'* 
her  cooking  with  all  of  the  stage-fright  of  the  beginner.  The 
recipes  and  suggestions  were  chiefly  Bettina's,  and  the  two 
had  been  busy  in  Ruth's  kitchen  since  early  that  morning. 
Bernadette  was  a  critical  young  person,  although  light-hearted 
and  affectionate,  and  Ruth  felt  that  she  could  set  her  humble 
efforts  before  no  sterner  judge.  Yet  all  the  while,  as  she 
tasted  each  course  in  its  turn,  her  mind  was  running  on,  "Will 
Fred  like  this?  Some  day  I'll  be  serving  this  to  Fred!"  It 
was  certainly  a  satisfaction  to  feel  one's  self  able  to  cook  a 
luncheon  acceptable  to  "the  younger  society  set !" 

With  each  course  an  enormous  motto,  supposedly  of  the 
"Don'ts  for  School  Girls'  Series,"  was  brought  in  ceremoni- 
ously on  a  tray  and  suspended  from  the  chandelier  over  th^ 
table,  until  finally  five  huge,  if  foolish,  "Don'ts"  were  dangling 
there  for  Bernadette's  inspection. 

With  the  last  course,  Ruth,  in  the  postman's  hat,  coat  and 
bag,  brought  in  an  endless  supply  of  letters  for  Bernadette, 
to  be  opened  at  such  times  as  "When  You  Meet  Your  Impos- 
sible Room-mate,"  "When  You  Feel  the  First  Pangs  of  Home- 

i8s 


186    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

sickness,"  "When  Reprimanded  by  a  Horrid  Old  Teacher/' 
"When  Forced  to  Mend  Your  Own  Stockings,"  etc. 

Bernadette  seized  them  all  delightedly,  glanced  at  the  covers 
and  cried  out,  half  in  laughter,  half  in  tears,  "Oh,  girls,  I 
simply  can't  go  'way  off  there!  I'll  die!"  Her  friends  fell 
upon  her  with  scoldings  and  hugs,  and  in  the  midst  of  the 
noise  and  clamor,  Ruth  and  Bettina  slipped  out  to  laugh  and 
talk  over  Ruth's  first  serious  culinary  effort. 

The  menu  consisted  of : 

Iced  Cantaloupe  Balls 

Chicken  Croquettes  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with   Corn 

Rolls  Peach  Pickles 

Cherry  Salad  Wafers 

Chocolate  Cream  Pudding 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Chicken   Croquettes    (Eight   croquettes) 

V/i  C-cooked    chopped       i  t-parsley  chopped  fine 
chicken  Ya  C-thick     white     sauce 

Ya  t-celery  salt  Y2  t-salt 

I  t-lemon  mice  2  C-crumbs 

4  T-egg,  beaten 

Mix  the  chicken,  celery  salt,  lemon  juice,  parsley,  salt  and 
thick  white  sauce.  Shape  into  croquettes.  Roll  in  cracker 
crumbs,  beaten  ^gg  and  more  crumbs.     Deep  fry.    Serve  hot. 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Corn  (Six  portions) 

I  C-corn-pulp,  cooked       2  T-bread     crumbs 
Y2  t-salt  Y2.  t-pepper 

I  egg-yolk  Y2  t-sugar 

Ya  C-milk  I  T-butter 

6  green  peppers 

Scoop  out  the  contents  of  the  peppers.  Mix  the  corn,  salt, 
tgg  yolk,  milk,  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  sugar.  Fill  the 
peppers.  Dot  with  butter.  Place  in  a  pan  and  bake  thirty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
with  water.     Baste  the  peppers  frequently. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  187 

Cherry  Salad   (Six  portions) 

2  C-California      ^  C-hazelnuts 
cherries  6  lettuce   leaves 

6  T-salad  dressing 

Remove  the  seeds  from  two  cups  of  California  white  cher- 
ries, and  fill  with  filberts  or  hazel  nuts.  Arrange  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Chocolate  Cream  Pudding  (Six  portions) 

2  C-milk  iH  squares  of  melted 

5  T-cornstarch  chocolate 

y2  C-sugar  3  T-hot  water 

J4  t-salt  2  egg-whites 

I  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt.  Add  cold  milk  gradu- 
ally, mixing  well.  Melt  the  chocolate  in  the  hot  water,  and 
add  it  to  the  other  mixture.  Cook  in  the  double  boiler  ten 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Beat  three  minutes.  Add  the 
stiffly  beaten  white  and  the  vanilla.  Mould,  chill  and  serve. 
If  the  chocolate  does  not  melt  in  the  hot  water,  cook  over  the 
fire  a  minute.  Whipped  cream  may  be  served  with  the  pud- 
ding. 


CHAPTER  LV 

BETTINA  PLANS  AN  ANNOUNCEMENT 
LUNCHEON 

a  \  ND  so  I  thought,  if  you  were  willing,  I  would  have  the 
jL\  luncheon  the  last  of  this  week,"  said  Bettina  to  Alice 

one  sultry  afternoon  which  they  were  spending  on  Bettina's 

porch. 

"That's  dear  of  you,  Bettina.     Oh,  how  queer  it  will  seem 

to  have  everyone  know  about  it !     You  must  let  me  help  with 

the  luncheon,  of  course." 

"No,  indeed,  Alice !     Ruth  and  I  are  going  to  do  it  all  alone, 

and  the  guest  of  honor  is  not  to  lift  a  finger !    You  can  advise 

us,  of  course,  but  you  mustn't  arrive  that  day  till  everything 

is  ready.     I  want  to  tell  you  about  a  few  plans  I've  made. 

I  wish  I  could  consult  Harry,  too." 

"But  he  won't  be  at  the  announcement  party  I" 

"No,  but  he's  the  leading  man  in  the  drama,  and  important 

even  when  off  the  stage.     Let's  telephone  him  to  come  here 

to  dinner  tonight.     It  is  so  warm  that  I  have  planned  only  a 

lunch,  but  we  can  set  the  porch  table  and  have  a  jolly  informal 

time.     Do  call  him  up,  Alice." 

"I'd  love  to,  of  course,  if  you  really  want  us." 

"Indeed  I  do,  but  we'll  have  to  hurry,  for  it's  after  five 

now." 

"I'll  help  you,"  said  Alice,  after  Harry  had  given  his  hearty 

acceptance.     "Let  me  fix  the  salad." 

"All  right,  and  I'll  stir  up  some  little  tea  cakes.     It's  better 

not  to  cut  those  beets  too  small,  Alice ;  it  makes  them  soft. 

i88 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  189 

I  never  add  them  till  just  before  I  serve  the  salad.  There, 
that's  fine!  Do  you  want  to  fix  the  parsley  to  garnish  the 
ham?  Ham  looks  so  much  better  with  parsley  that  I  never 
fail  to  garnish  it.  I  have  nasturtiums  for  the  center  of  the 
table,  and  we'll  garnish  the  salad  with  them,  too." 

"It  will  be  a  festive  little  meal.  What  else  can  I  do  while 
you're  baking  the  tea  cakes  ?'* 

"You  can  make  the  iced  tea,  Alice.  You  do  everything  so 
easily  and  deftly  that  I  love  to  watch  you.  And  you  have 
never  cooked  at  all  until  lately,  have  you?" 

"No,  but  I  really  like  it.  Wouldn't  it  be  a  joke  if  I  should 
become  very  domestic?" 

"Well,  your  fate  is  pointing  in  that  direction !  Time  is 
swiftly  passing,  and  in  a  few  short  weeks — Alice,  shall  I  call 
off  the  announcement  luncheon?" 

"Oh,  no,  no,  Bettina!  Let  fate  do  her  worst!  Fm  re- 
signed." 

Supper  that  night  consisted  of : 

Cold  Sliced  Ham  Beet  Salad 

Bread  Butter 

Tea  Cakes  Apple  Sauce 

Iced  Tea 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Beet  Salad  (Four  portions) 

I  C-cold    boiled    beets    cut    in  i  hard-cooked     egg,     diced 

^-inch  cubes  1/3  C-diced  cucumber 

1/3  C-cold  boiled  potatoes,  cubed  ^  t-salt 

1/3  C-diced  celery  ^   C-salad  dressing 

Mix  the  beets,  potatoes,  celery,  egg,  cucumber  and  salt  very 
lightly  together  with  a  fork.  Mix  with  salad  dressing.  Serve 
in  a  bowl  garnished  with  nasturtium  leaves  and  flowers. 

"Lightning"  Tea  Cakes   (Twelve  cakes) 

iH  C-flour  1/3  t-salt 

%  C-granulated  or        3  T-butter  (melted) 

powdered  sugar         i  egg 
2  t-baking  powder       H  C-milk 
^2  t-vanilla 


190     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Sift  and  mix  together  the  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and 
salt.  Make  a  "well"  in  the  center  of  the  mixture  and  pour  in 
the  melted  butter,  ^gg,  milk  and  vanilla.  Stir  all  together  and 
beat  vigorously  for  two  minutes.  Fill  well  buttered  muffin 
pans  half  full  of  the  mixture  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER   LVI 
RUTH  AND  BETTINA  MAKE  PREPARATIONS 

<4/^\H,  Bettina,  aren't  the  butterflies  darling?"  exclaimed 

V^  Ruth,  looking  once  more  at  the  table  display  of  her 
work.  "And  with  everything  ready  to  begin  in  the  morning, 
won't  things  be  easy  for  us  both  ?     What  shall  I  do  next  ?'* 

"Not  a  thing,  Ruth  dear.  You've  worked  too  hard  all  this 
afternoon,  I'm  afraid.  Now  we're  going  to  sit  down  to  a  good 
hot  dinner,  and  tell  Bob  all  about  our  preparations." 

"M — m !  Something  smells  good  !"  said  Ruth.  "I've  been 
so  busy  with  all  these  cunning  things  that  I  haven't  even 
thought  of  eating.  But  now  that  you  mention  it,  I'll  admit 
that  I  have  a  fine  healthy  appetite." 

"Well,  dinner  is  almost  ready,  and  Bob  will  be  here  any 
minute.  It's  all  in  the  oven  except  the  corn :  meat  loaf,  sweet 
potatoes  and  apricot  cobbler." 

"Oh,  how  good  it  sounds !  More  sensible  than  all  our  fluffy 
dishes  for  the  announcement  luncheon.  But  then,  I  do  love 
fluffy  things.  I'm  sure  Alice  will  like  it,  and  all  the  others, 
too.  Makes  me  'most  wish  I'd  kept  my  engagement  a  secret, 
and  announced  it  with  ceremony  as  Alice  is  doing.  But  I 
couldn't,  somehow." 

"No,  you  couldn't,  Ruth,  and  neither  could  Fred.  He'd  give 
it  away  if  you  didn't.  So  I  guess  there's  no  use  wishing  you 
had  kept  it.  Anyhow,  you  just  suit  me  as  you  are.  You've 
been  such  a  dear  to  help  with  the  luncheon !  Goodness,  there's 
Bob  now !" 

The  dinner  consisted  of: 


192     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Beef  Loaf  Sweet  Potatoes 

Corn  on  the  Cob 

Bread  Butter 

Apricot  Cobbler 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Beef  Loaf  (Three  portions) 

I  lb.  beef  ground  J/2  t-salt 

%  lb.  salt  pork,  ground  y%  t-pepper 

J4  t-onion  salt  Y^  C-tomato 

1/3  C-fresh  bread  crumbs  54  C-water 

I  ^gg  I  T-fat  drippings 

Mix  the  ground  beef  and  salt  pork,  add  the  onion  salt,  fresh 
crumbs,  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  tomato.  Mix  thoroughly.  Shape 
into  a  loaf  which  will  fit  into  a  small  buttered  pan.  Add  the 
water  and  pour  fat  drippings  over  the  top.  (Bacon  fat  is 
good.)  Cover  the  pan,  and  allow  to  cook  in  the  oven  one- 
half  hour.  Uncover  the  loaf,  basting  frequently,  and  brown  it. 
This  will  take  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Serve  hot.  More 
water  may  be  added  while  cooking  if  necessary. 

Sweet  Potatoes  (Three  portions) 
3  potatoes     ^A  t-salt 
Peel  the  potatoes,  salt  them  with  one-fourth  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  in  each  potato,  and  place  them  in  the  pan  with  the  meat. 
This  gives  the  potatoes  a  good  flavor. 

Bettina's  Apricot  Cobbler   (Three  portions) 

I  C-cooked  and  sweetened  1/3  t-salt 

apricots  2  T-butter 

I  T-flour  1/3  C-milk 

y2  t-cinnamon  1/3  C-sugar 

1  C-flour  Yz  C-water 

2  t-baking  powder  Y2  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  apricots,  one  tablespoon  flour  and  cinnamon.  Mix 
and  sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cut  in  the 
butter  with  a  knife.  Add  the  milk  until  a  soft  dough  is  formed. 
Place  the  apricot  mixture  in  a  baking-dish  and  the  dough  on 
top  of  the  apricots.  Cook  the  water  and  sugar  together  for 
three  minutes.  Add  the  vanilla.  When  the  cobbler  has  baked 
fifteen  minutes  pour  syrup  over  it.  Bake  ten  minutes  more  in 
a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER   LVII 
A   RAINBOW   ANNOUNCEMENT  LUNCHEON 

41^/^ H,   Bettina,  how  lovely!"  cried   the  ten  guests   in  a 

V-/  chorus,  as  Ruth  and  Bettina  ushered  them  into  the 
softly  lighted  dining-room.  Not  one  had  had  even  a  glimpse 
of  the  luncheon  table  before,  for  Ruth  had  been  entertaining 
them  on  the  porch  while  Bettina  put  on  the  finishing  touches. 
It  all  seemed  a  burst  of  soft  rainbow  colors.  "What  is  it?" 
cried  someone.     "How  did  you  ever  get  the  rainbow  effect?" 

"Let's  not  examine  it  too  closely,"  said  Bettina.  "You  know 
a  rainbow  after  all  is  nothing  but  drops  of  water  with  the  sun 
shining  through,  and  maybe  my  rainbow  table  has  a  prosy 
explanation,  too." 

From  the  low  mass  of  variegated  garden  flowers  in  the 
center — pink,  yellow,  lavender,  orange,  blue,  and  as  many  oth- 
ers as  the  girls  could  find — ran  strips  of  soft  tulle  in  rainbow 
colors.  The  strips  were  attached  at  the  outer  end  to  the  dainty 
butterflies  which  perched  lightly  on  the  tulle  covered  candy 
cups.  These  candy  cups  held  pink,  lavender  and  green  Jordan 
almond  candies.  More  butterflies  in  all  sizes  and  colors  hov- 
ered among  the  flowers.  Upon  the  plain  white  name  cards, 
little  butterflies  had  been  outlined  in  black  and  decorated  in 
butterfly  colors.  Ruth  and  Bettina  had  cut  with  the  scissors 
around  this  outline  and  then,  when  it  had  been  cut  almost  away, 
had  folded  back  the  butterfly  so  that  it  stood  up  on  the  card, 
as  ready  for  flight  as  its  brothers  and  sisters. 

"Aren't  they  cunning?"  exclaimed  Barbara,  taking  her  but- 
terfly from  her  favor  cup.     "Goodness,  it's  attached  to  some- 

193 


194    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

thing !"  Pulling  gently  by  the  rainbow  tulle  to  which  the  but- 
terfly had  been  pasted,  she  drew  forth  from  the  greenery  in 
the  center  a  little  golden  bag.  It  was  in  reality  a  little  fat  bag 
of  soft  yellow  silk  tied  with  gold  cord  and  holding  something 
that,  seen  through  the  mesh,  appeared  to  be — gold  ? 

The  other  girls,  in  great  excitement,  drew  forth  their  little 
bags. 

"Rice !"  declared  Mary,  "though  it  looks  yellow  !'* 

"It's  the  bag  of  gold  at  the  foot  of  the  rainbow !"  exclaimed 
Ruth,  with  flushed  cheeks.     "Discovered  by " 

"Harry  Harrison  and  Alice!"  cried  the  girls,  laughing  al- 
most hysterically.  For  one  small  card  which  read,  "Discov- 
ered by"  and  the  two  names,  in  gold  letters,  was  tied  to  the 
Uttle  bag  by  the  gold  cord. 

"Alice,  how  did  you  ever  manage  to  keep  it  a  secret  ?"  asked 
someone. 

''Wellj  it  would  have  been  harder  if  you  had  all  known 
Harry,  but  you  see,  we  haven't  been  with  the  crowd  much 
lately,  have  we?  Now  admit  it!  You  haven't  even  missed 
me!" 

"But  you're  more  of  a  butterfly  than  any  of  the  rest  of  us. 
And  the  limits  of  the  old  crowd  don't  always  bound  your 
flutterings." 

"I'm  not  a  butterfly  anymore,"  said  Alice.  "I  suppose  I'll 
have  a  butterfly  wedding  (Harry  will  detest  it,  but  he'll  have 
to  give  in  that  once),  but  after  that  I  expect  to  be  as  domestic 
as  Bettina  here,  though  not  such  a  success  at  it,  probably. 
Aren't  these  orange  baskets  the  prettiest  things  ?" 

The  girls,  in  their  excitement,  had  almost  forgotten  to  eat, 
but  now  they  looked  down  at  their  plates.  Fruit  cups  in  orange 
baskets,  with  handles  of  millinery  wire  twisted  with  pink, 
green,  yellow  and  violet  tulle,  added  to  the  rainbow  effect. 
The  baskets  were  placed  on  paper  doilies  on  tea  plates,  and 
were  artistically  lined  with  mint  leaves. 

"It  looks  too  pretty  to  eat,"  said  Dorothy. 

"Ruth  will  feel  hurt  if  you  don't  like  it,  but  I  know  you 
will,"  said  Bettina.  "She  prepared  this  course,  and  made  most 
of  the  table  decorations,  too." 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  195 

"And  didn't  you  wish  that  you  were  announcing  something 
yourself,  Ruth?"  asked  Mary.  "Although  I  don't  believe  the 
crowd  could  stand  two  such  surprises!  We've  known  Fred 
and  you  so  long  that  your  engagement  seems  the  natural  thing, 
but  when  a  perfectly  strange  man  like  Mr.  Harrison  happens 
by,  and  helps  himself  to  one  of  our  number — well,  it  certainly 
takes  my  breath  away !  Where  did  you  first  meet  him,  Alice  ? 
Was  it  love  at  first  sight  ?" 

"Love  at  first  sight  ?  Bob  introduced  us — here,  in  this  very 
house,  and  I  thought — well — I  thought  Harry  the  most  dis- 
agreeably serious  man  I'd  ever  had  the  misfortune  to  meet! 
And  he  thought  me  the  most  disagreeably  frivolous  girl  he 
had  ever  seen !  So  our  feud  began,  and  of  course  we  had  to 
see  each  other  to  fight  it  out !" 

"And  then  comes  Bettina's  rainbow  luncheon  to  show  us 
how  serious  the  feud  proved  to  be,"  laughed  Barbara.  "What  ? 
More  courses,  Bettina  ?  This  is  a  beautiful  luncheon  !  I  won- 
der who'll  be  the  next  to  discover  the  treasure  at  the  foot  of  the 
rainbow  ?" 

The  menu  consisted  of : 

Fruit  Cups  in  Orange  Baskets 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup  Whipped  Cream 

Salt  Wafers 


Tuna  Moulds  Egg  Sauce 

Potatoes  a  la  Bettina 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Creamed  Cauliflower 

Rolls  Butter 


Head  Lettuce,  Russian   Dressing 
Thin  Sandwiches  in  Fancy  Shapes 

Marshmallow  Cream 
Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Tuna  Loaf  (Eight  portions) 

l^  C-tuna  I  t-Iemon  juice 

I   C-fresh  bread  crumbs  i  t-chopped  green  pepper 

2  eggs  (just  the  yolks  may  i  t-salt 

be  used)  ^  t-paprika 


190    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  thoroughly,  picking  the  fish 
apart  with  a  silver  fork.  Mould  firmly  in  a  loaf.  Roll  in 
flour,  and  place  in  a  buttered  bread  pan.  Dot  with  butter,  and 
bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  same  recipe 
may  be  distributed  among  fancy  individual  moulds,  filled  half 
full.  Arrange  a  star-shaped  piece  of  pimento,  green  pepper, 
beet  or  tgg  in  the  bottom  of  a  fancy  aluminum  mould.  An 
attractive  design  may  be  made  by  putting  the  star  cut  from 
any  vegetable  with  radiating  pieces  of  any  other  kind  of  vege- 
table of  a  different  color.  Place  the  design  firmly  on  the 
fish.  Set  the  moulds  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  the 
mixture  is  firmly  set.  (About  thirty  minutes.)  Remove  from 
the  oven,  let  moulds  stand  three  minutes,  and  then,  with  the 
assistance  of  a  knife,  slip  them  from  the  pan,  unmould  all  the 
moulds  in  one  flat  pan,  and  keep  them  hot  until  needed.  Do 
not  forget  that  the  mould  must  be  thoroughly  bu^ttered  before 
using.  When  ready  to  serve,  make  a  regular  vegetable  white 
sauce  (two  T-butter,  2  T-flour,  1  C-milk,  V^  t-salt).  When 
ready  to  serve  and  while  steaming  hot,  add  one  beaten  tgg 
yoke.  The  hot  sauce  will  cook  the  ^gg.  Pour  around  the 
mould. 


CHAPTER   LVIII 
AN  EARLY  CALLER 

BOB  had  scarcely  left  the  house  the  next  morning  when 
Bettina  was  called  to  the  door.  "I  couldn't  resist  com- 
ing !"  said  Alice.  "The  announcement  party  was  lovely,  and  I 
must  thank  you  for  doing  it.     Aren't  you  tired  to  pieces  ?" 

"No,  Ruth  helped  me  a  great  deal,  and  by  the  time  Bob 
came  home  to  dinner,  the  luncheon  dishes  were  washed  and 
put  away  and  the  house  was  in  apple-pie  order." 

"Everything  tasted  delicious,  Bettina.  Maybe  it  sounds  al- 
together too  practical  for  my  own  announcement  party,  but 
I'm  armed  with  a  pencil  and  a  notebook,  and  I  do  want  to 
get  some  of  those  recipes  of  yours !" 

"You're  welcome  to  them  all,  Alice,  of  course.  They  are 
all  recipes  that  I  have  used  over  and  over  again,  and  I'm 
sure  of  them." 

"What  kind  of  soup  was  it?  Celery?  I  thought  so.  Wasn't 
it  hard  to  prepare?" 

"Why,  Alice,  it  was  canned  celery  soup,  diluted  with  hot 
milk.  Then  I  added  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  red  pepper." 

"But  surely  it  had  whipped  cream  in  it,  Bettina!** 

"Yes,  I  put  a  teaspoonful  of  whipped  cream  in  the  bottom 
of  the  bouillon  cup  and  poured  the  hot  soup  on  it,  so  that  it 
would  be  well  mixed." 

"Well,  that  accounts  for  it ;  I  thought  it  must  be  made  with 
whipped  cream.  Oh,  Bettina,  everything  was  so  pretty !  The 
tulle  bows  on  the  baskets  holding  the  wafers  and  the  rolls — 

197 


198    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

and  the  butterflies  perched  on  them !  How  did  you  ever  think 
of  it?" 

"Well,  butterflies  are  a  happy  choice  for  decorations !  They 
can  be  put  anywhere,  and  they  are  easy  to  make — at  least 
Ruth  says  so." 

"You  use  paper  doilies  a  great  deal,  don't  you !  Aren't  they 
expensive?" 

"Expensive  ?  Well,  I  wish  you'd  price  them !  They  are  so 
inexpensive  that  I  like  to  use  them  even  for  a  very  informal 
meal ;  they  add  such  a  dainty  touch,  I  think." 

"I  must  write  down  the  recipes  for  your  tuna  loaf,  and  green 
peppers  stuffed  with  cauliflower,  and  Russian  dressing — and 
oh,  that  wonderful  kind  of  rainbow  dessert!  Bettina,  what 
was  that  dessert?" 

"Marshmallow  cream  made  with  gelatine  and  cream  and 
marshmallows  and  whites  of  eggs.  I  puzzled  a  long  time  over 
\  real  Vainbow'  dessert,  and  finally  decided  on  marshmallow 
cream  with  a  few  variations.  Come  into  the  kitchen,  where 
I  keep  my  card  index,  and  I'll  get  all  the  recipes  for  you." 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Potato  Balls   (Four  portions) 

4  potatoes       i  t-salt 
I  C-crumbs      2  T-egg 

Boil  potatoes  of  uniform  size  with  the  skins  on.  When  cold, 
peel,  roll  in  crumbs,  to  which  salt  has  been  added  and  then  the 
beaten  tgg  and  crumbs.    Deep  fry  in  very  hot  fat. 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Cauliflower  (Four  portions) 

4  green  peppers  i   C-vegetable  sauce 

I  C-cooked  cauliflower     2  T-crumbs 
I  T-butter,  melted 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  each  large  green  pepper 
and  remove  the  seeds.  Parboil  ten  minutes,  and  fill  with 
creamed  cauliflower  and  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  until  the  skins 
are  tender,  basting  occasionally  with  butter  and  water. 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  199 

Marshmallow  Cream  (Four  portions) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin  i  t-lemon  extract 

4  T-cold  milk  ^  lb.  marshmallows,  cut  in 
2/3  C-sugar  one-fourth  cubes 

I  1/3  C-double  cream  4  toasted  marshmallows 

I  t-vanilla  extract  4  pecans 

I  egg  white    well  beaten  4  almonds 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  milk  for  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  by 
setting  the  dish  in  boiling  water.  Add  the  sugar.  Allow  the 
mixture  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to  congeal,  add  the  flavor- 
ings. Beat  in  the  whipped  cream,  and  continue  beating  until 
it  is  firm.  Fold  in  the  egg-white  and  the  marshmallows  cut 
in  cubes.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  set,  pile  lightly  in 
sherbet  cups.  Place  one-half  of  a  toasted  marshmallow  on 
the  top,  and  arrange  pecan  meats  and  candied  cherries  in  a 
conventional  design.     Set  aside  one  hour  to  cool  and  harden. 

Bettina  colored  the  mixture  with  vegetable  coloring  of  a 
very  delicate  green.  Then  on  the  top  she  placed  a  teaspoonful 
of  white  whipped  cream,  then  the  toasted  marshmallow  and 
the  different  fruits.  Bettina  browned  the  marshmallows 
quickly  in  the  oven,  after  she  had  cut  them  the  desired  shape. 
She  used  cups  with  handles,  and  decorated  them  with  fluffy 
]dows  of  variegated  tulles.  To  make  these  bows,  she  took  strips 
of  each  color  desired,  one  inch  wide,  tied  them  together,  and 
"fluffed  them  out."  She  might  have  gained  a  real  rainbow 
effect  by  dividing  the  marshmallow  cream  (when  mixed,  but 
not  yet  firm)  into  three  bowls,  and  coloring  them  green,  laven- 
der and  pink,  with  delicate  vegetable  colors.  Then,  having 
beaten  in  the  whipped  cream,  she  might  have  placed  in  each 
sherbet  cup  three  layers,  pink,  lavender  and  green.  Then,  on 
the  top,  she  might  have  placed  the  whipped  cream. 


CHAPTER  LIX 
RUTH   COMES  TO  LUNCHEON 

^^  A  ND  here  we  are,  busily  planning  Alice's  affairs,"  said 

-^  ^  Bettina,  ''when  we  might  be  talking  of  yours,  Ruth. 
Are  you  sure,  sure,  sure,  that  you  don't  want  any  parties,  or 
showers,  or  affairs  of  any  sort?" 

"Sure,  sure,  sure!"  said  Ruth,  emphatically.  *T  may  be 
silly,  Bettina,  but  to  me  such  a  fuss  beforehand  takes  some- 
thing away  from  the  beauty  of  the  wedding !  And  then  there 
are  other  reasons.  We've  had  to  postpone  building  till  next 
summer,  and  may  not  be  married  till  the  house  is  done — ^you 
know  that.  So  we'll  have  been  engaged  a  long  time.  It  seems 
to  me  that  after  a  long  engagement  like  ours,  it  is  better  to 
have  a  simple  wedding  and  no  parties.  Alice's  is  happening 
just  as  I  always  expected  that  it  would — a  surprising  announce- 
ment, a  short  engagement,  and  many  parties,  with  an  elaborate 
wedding  as  the  climax!  Sometimes  I  think  that  sort  would 
be  the  kind  to  have — but  you  see,  Bettina,  when  you're  expect- 
ing to  be  married  only  once,  you  want  to  have  just  the  kind 
that  seems  best  to  you." 

"And  yours  will  be  just  right  for  you,  Ruth,"  said  Bettina, 
warmly.  "You  are  you,  and  Fred  is  Fred,  and  I  can't  imagine 
either  of  you  caring  for  much  excitement.  And  when  you  are 
in  your  new  house '* 

"I'm  going  to  have  you  over  at  least  once  a  week  to  just 
such  a  dear  little  luncheon  as  this !  Or  rather — as  much  like 
it  as  I  can  devise.  Bettina,  how  did  you  have  time  to  cook 
such  good  things  ?" 

"Well,"  said  Bettina,  "Bob  will  have  these  same  things  for 

200 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  201 

dinner  tonight,  with  the  addition  of  some  cold  sliced  meat.  So 
now,  Ruth,  we  have  a  long  afternoon  before  us — to  sew  and 
talk!" 

Bettina's  luncheon  consisted  of : 

Bettina's  Mexican  Salad  Brown  Bread 

Apricot  Preserves 

Orange  Cake  Hot  Chocolate 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Bettina's  Mexican  Salad  (Four  portions) 

1  cucumber  diced  2  T-green  pepper,  cut  fine 

2  tomatoes  cut  in  one-inch  cubes     1/3  C-cottage  cheese 
I  C-cut  celery  i  t-salt 

K  C-cooked  beets  2/3  C-salad  dressing 

I  T-chopped  parsley  4  lettuce  leaves 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  order  given  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

Brown  Bread  (Baked)  (Two  loaves) 

2  C-graham  flour  i  t-salt 
2  C-white  flour  >2  C-mo 
2  t-soda  2  C-sour    milk 

Mix  well  the  graham  flour,  white  flour,  soda  and  salt.  Add 
the  molasses  and  sour  milk ;  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  two 
well-buttered  bread  tins,  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Orange  Cake  (Sixteen  pieces) 

x/3  C-butter  54  t-salt 

1  C-sugar  Ya  C-orange  juice 

2  eggs  beaten  separately  %  C-milk 
Grated  rind  of  one  orange  i  2/3  C-flour 

3  t-baking  powder  J4  t-lemon    extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  egg-yolks;  mix  thor- 
oughly. Add  the  orange  rind.  Add  the  baking  powder,  salt 
and  flour  sifted  together  and  then  the  orange  juice  and  milk. 
Mix,  and  beat  one  minute.  Add  the  egg-whites  beaten  stiffly, 
and  the  lemon  extract.  Bake  in  two  square  cake  tins  fitted  with 
waxed  paper  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


202     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Orange  Filling  for  the  Cake  (Sixteen  portions) 

1/2   C-sugar  Grated  rind  of  Yz  an 

3  T-flour  orange 

y&  t-salt  Ya  C-water 

I  egg  yolk         Ya   C-orange  juice 
Y2  t-lemon  juice 

Mix  the  flour,  sugar  ana  salt  well ;  aad  slowly  tne  egg-yolk 
and  the  grated  rind,  the  orange  juice  and  water.  Cook  slowly 
over  hot  water  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 
Add  the  lemon  juice  or  lemon  extract.  Spread  on  one  layer 
of  cake.  Place  the  other  layer  carefully  on  the  top  and  spread 
Quick  Cake  Icing  over  the  top  and  sides  of  the  cake. 


OCTOBER. 

Ohj  hazy  month  of  glowing  treeSj- 


And  colors  rich  to  charm  our  eyes! 
Yet — not  less  fair  than  all  of  these 
Are  Mother's  fragrant  pumpkin  pies! 


CHAPTER  LX 


A  KITCHEN  SHOWER  FOR  ALICE 


"D 


ID    you    want    me    for 
something,  Mary  ?"  asked 
Alice  at  the  door.    ''Mother  said 
you  had  telephoned." 

"Come  in!  Come  in!"  cried 
tten  girls  at  once,  while  Bettina 
whispered  to  Ruth:  "Thank 
goodness,  she's  come !  The  muf- 
fins are  all  but  done !" 

"What    in    the    world!"    said 
Alice. 
"A  party  for  you !" 
"And  I'm  wearing  my  old  suit!" 

"We  caught  you  this  time,  but  never  mind.  Come  in,  and 
take  off  your  things." 

As  soon  as  Alice  reappeared  in  the  living  room,  a  small  table 
was  drawn  up  before  the  open  fire.  Two  girls  appeared,  wear- 
ing gingham  aprons  and  carrying  overflowing  market  baskets. 
"This  is  a  kitchen  ishower  for  you,  Alice,"  Ruth  explained 
somewhat  ceremoniously.  "But  if  you  are  willing,  we  will  use 
the  utensils  in  serving  the  luncheon  and  afterwards  present 
them  to  you.  May  we  unpack  the  baskets?" 
"Do,"  said  Alice,  laughing. 

From  the  larger  basket,  Ruth  removed  twelve  white  enam- 
elled plates  of  different  sizes  (suitable  for  holding  supplies  in 
the  refrigerator),  and  twelve  cross-barred  tea  towels.     The 

205 


206    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

latter  she  passed  around  to  be  used  as  napkins,  and  Mary  dis- 
tributed the  plates.  On  the  small  serving  table  before  the  fire, 
a  white  muslin  table  cover  was  placed.  As  she  unfolded  it, 
Ruth  read  from  the  attached  card : 

"If  breakfast  you  should  chance  to  eat 
Upon  the  kitchen  table — 
I'll  make  it  dainty,  fair  and  neat 
So  far  as  I  am  able." 

When  the  steel  forks  and  spoons  of  various  sizes  were  taken 
out  and  passed  around,  two  glass  measuring  cups  were  found 
to  hold  loaf  sugar  wrapped  in  frilled  paper.  Upon  one  of 
these  Ruth  read : 

"Please  eat  us  all,  but  let  your  sweet 
Sweet  hours  be  duly  treasured. 
For  we  belie  the  worldly  eye — 

True  sweetness  can't  be  measured." 

A  glass  rolling-pin  filled  with  stick  candy  came  next,  and 
its  sentiments  read,  and  meanwhile  the  girls  had  begun  to  read 
aloud  the  advice  pinned  upon  the  tea-towels,  such  as : 

"No  matter  what  his  whims  and  wishes — 
Just  tell  him  he  must  wipe  the  dishes !" 

and 

"But  if  he  breaks  a  cup  or  plate. 
Just  throw  the  pieces  at  him  straight." 

"What  vindictive  dish-towels!"  said  Alice.  "They're  not  a 
bit  sentimental !" 

When  the  contents  had  been  removed  and  all  the  verses  read, 
the  large  basket  was  presented  to  Alice,  who  read  from  its 
handle : 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  207 

"To  market,  to  market,  to  buy  your  supplies ! 
You'll  go  there  in  person,  if  careful  and  wise." 

"I  will,  Mr.  Basket,  with  you  over  my  arm!"  answered 
Alice. 

Meanwhile  the  girls  had  carried  in  the  salad  in  an  earthen- 
ware mixing-bowl,  the  muffins  heaped  high  in  a  small  basket 
with  a  dainty  dustcloth  over  them,  the  coffee  in  a  large  enam- 
elled pitcher,  and  the  "molasses  puffs"  wrapped  in  frilled 
paper  in  a  basket  suitable  for  holding  supplies.  ''Bettina's 
apples"  were  arranged  in  two  flat  enamelled  pans.  All  the  food 
was  served  informally  from  the  small  table,  and  the  merriment 
grew  as  the  luncheon  progressed. 

"I  wish  that  all  the  meals  Harry  and  I  have  together  might 
be  as  jolly  as  this  one !  I'm  sure  I  should  be  glad  to  eat  always 
from  kitchen  dishes,  if  that  is  what  makes  the  fun,"  said 
Alice. 

At  the  kitchen  shower,  the  luncheon  was  as  follows : 

Bettina's  Potato  Salad  Bettina's  Spiced  Beets 

Twin  Mountain  Muffins  Currant  Jelly 

Molasses  Puffs  Bettina's  Apples 

Coffee  Stick  Candy 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bettina's  Potato  Salad  (Twelve  portions) 

3  C-cold  boiled  potatoes,  diced      3  T-diced  pimento 

I  C-diced  celery  2  t-salt 

J4  C-diced  hard-cooked  egg  i  T-chopped  onion 

%  C-diced  sweet  pickles  i  C-salad  dressing 

12  lettuce  leaves 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named.  Serve  the  salad 
very  cold  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Bettina's  Spiced  Beets  (Twelve  portions) 

5  large,  cooked  beets,     i  T-"C"  sugar 

sliced  6  cloves 

y2  C-vinegar  i  t-salt 

Yb,  t-pepper 

Heat  the  vinegar,  add  the  cloves,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper. 


208    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Pour  over  the  beets,  cut  in  one-third  inch  sHces.     Allow  to  stand 
one  hour  before  serving. 

Molasses  Puffs   (Twelve  portions) 

54  C-molasses  i  egg,   well  beaten 

y^  C-sugar  2  t-ginger 

J/2  C-hot  water  i  t-cinnamon 

1/3  C-biitter  and  lard  2  t-soda 

(melted)  3  C-flour 

Mix  the  molasses  and  sugar.  Add  the  hot  water  and  fat. 
Beat  well,  add  the  egg  and  mix  thoroughly.  Sift  the  ginger, 
cinnamon,  flour  and  soda  together,  and  add  to  the  rest  of  the 
ingredients,  mixing  well.  Fill  well-buttered  muffin  pans  three- 
fourths  full.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  min- 
utes.    Ice  with  "C"  sugar  icing. 

Icing 

2  egg-whites  beaten      2  C-"C"    sugar 
stiffly  H  C-water 

Yz  t-vanilla 

Cook  the  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  "clicks"  when 
a  little  is  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  the  syrup  slowly 
over  the  stiffly  beaten  tgg  whites.  Beat  vigorously  until  cool 
and  creamy.  Add  the  vanilla  and  spread  on  the  cakes.  If  the 
icing  gets  hard  before  it  is  cool,  add  two  tablespoons  of  water 
and  continue  beating.  The  secret  of  good  icing  is  steady, 
constant  beating. 

Bettina*s  Apples  (Twelve  portions) 

12  apples  Ya  t-cinnamon 

3  C-'C"    sugar     Y2  t-vanilla 
2  C-water  18  marshmallows 

I  T-butter 

Wash,  peel  and  core  the  apples.  Place  in  a  broad  flat  pan 
in  which  the  sugar  and  water  have  been  thoroughly  mixed. 
Cook  the  apples,  turning  often  until  tender,  remove  from  the 
syrup  and  place  in  a  serving  dish.  Fill  the  center  with  one- 
half  a  marshmallow.  Add  the  cinnamon  and  butter  to  the 
syrup  and  cook  five  minutes  or  until  it  thickens.  Pour  over 
and  around  the  apples.  Decorate  with  a  marshmallow  cut 
into   fourths.     Serve  warm. 


CHAPTER   LXI 

A   RAINY   NIGHT    MEAL 

^^TXrHY,  Bob,   I  thought  you'd  be  miles   away  by  this 
^^     time!"  cried  Bettina,  as  Bob  came  into  the  house  at 
the  usual  time  one  evening. 

"They  called  off  our  trip  on  account  of  the  weather.  And 
I  supposed  you'd  be  at  your  mother's !" 

"It  was  raining  so  that  I  decided  to  build  a  cozy  little  fire 
in  the  fireplace  and  stay  at  home." 

"Well,  I'm  glad  you're  here !  I  was  expecting  to  come  home 
to  a  cold,  dark  house,  and  this  is  much  more  cheerful." 

"And  I  expected  not  to  see  you  till  midnight,  so  I'm  well 
suited  too!  But,  Bobby,  you  mustn't  complain  if  I  give  you 
a  *pick-up  meal.'     I  expected  to  eat  only  a  lunch  myself." 

"I  don't  care  what  you  give  me,  just  so  it's  hot.  My  walk 
through  the  rain  has  given  me  an  appetite.  I'll  help  you  get 
supper  and  wash  the  dishes,  Bettina,  and  then  afterward  we'll 
pop  corn  and  toast  marshmallows  by  the  fire.  What  do  you 
say?" 

"Fine,  Bob!  I  cooked  some  celery  today — just  a  little — 
and  I  think  I'll  fix  'celery  au  gratin'  for  you.  The  cooky-jar 
is  full  of  rocks " 

"A  full  cooky- jar !  Bettina,  that  ought  to  be  the  symbol  of 
our  happy  home.     May  it  always  be  full !" 

"You're  altogether  too  oratorical  for  a  staid  married  man, 
Bob.  Well,  as  I  was  saying,  here  is  apple  sauce,  and  I'll  soon 
have  some  emergency  biscuit  stirred  up.     Then  with  scrambled 

eggs " 

209 


210    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

''Hurry,  Bettina!     My  appetite  grows  with  every  dish  you 
mention !" 

They  had  a  meal  of : 


Scrambled  Eggs  Celery  au  Gratin 

Emergency  Biscuit        Fresh  Apple  Sauce 

Rocks  Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Scrambled  Eggs  (Two  portions) 

3  eggs         H  t-salt 
5  T-milk     Ys  t-paprika 
I  T-butter 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly ;  add  milk,  salt  and  paprika.  Melt 
the  butter  in  a  frying  pan  or  omelet  pan.  When  hot,  add  the 
^gg  mixture,  and  cook  slowly,  scraping  from  bottom  and  sides 
of  the  pan  when  mixture  first  sets.  Cook  until  creamy,  or 
longer  if  preferred.  If  desired,  the  tgg  may  be  constantly 
"scrambled"  with  a  fork  while  cooking.  Turn  into  a  hot  dish 
and  serve  at  once. 

Celery  au  Gratin  (Two  portions) 

I  C-cooked    diced   celery     J^  C-milk  and  celery  stock 
I  T-butter  3  T-grated  cheese 

I  T-flour  yi  t-paprika 

%.  t-salt 

Cook  the  celery  in  a  small  amount  of  water  at  a  low  tem- 
perature, as  too  fast  boiling  makes  it  tough.  Simmer  until 
tender. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  blend  well.  Add  the 
milk  and  stock,  pepper  and  salt.  Add  the  cheese.  Allow  to 
cook  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  a  thin  vegetable  white  sauce. 
Add  the  celery.     Place  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

(Bettina  uses  a  part  of  the  water  in  which  the  celery  is 
simmered  to  make  up  the  cup  of  combined  milk  and  celery 
stock.     The  remainder  of  the  celery  stock  she  saves  for  soup.) 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  211 

Rocks  (Two  dozen) 

iH   C-brown  sugar       ^  t-salt 
2/3  C-butter  2^   C-flour 

2  eggs  I  t-soda 

I  t-cinnamon  i^   C-chopped  nut  meats 

J4  t-ground  cloves  and  raisins 

I  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  cream  the  mixture. 
Add  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  remaining  dry  ingredients 
(except  nuts  and  raisins)  sifted  together.  Mix  well.  Add  the 
nut  meats  and  chopped  raisins,  and  vanilla.  The  mixture 
should  be  very  stiff.  Drop  from  a  spoon  onto  flat  buttered 
pans  or  preferably  onto  a  buttered  baking  sheet.  Bake  about 
twelve  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

(Bettina  keeps  rocks  in  a  stone  jar,  and  finds  that  they  keep 
well,  and  are  really  better  when  a  day  old.) 


CHAPTER  LXII 

ALICE  GIVES  A  LUNCHEON 

i^^T^HESE  are  the  first  baking  powder  biscuits  I  have  ever 
A  made  for  company,"  said  Alice,  "but  I  knew  that  I 
must  begin  some  time.  Mother  has  gone  out  to  spend  the  day ; 
I  persuaded  her  that  my  efforts  to  serve  a  luncheon  would 
upset  her  nervous  system  completely.  Just  think,  girls !  You 
are  at  my  mercy — for  I  have  prepared  this  humble  repast 
v/ith  my  own  useless  hands !" 

"Shame  on  you,  Alice!  Don't  pretend  to  be  so  humble. 
You  do  everything  so  easily  that  I'll  not  be  surprised  to  see 
you  papering  your  own  house  and  acting  as  your  own  plumber 
and  doing  every  other  hard  thing.  A  useless  butterfly  like 
you  who  turns  out  to  be  so  compe<tent  after  all  is  the  despair 
of  all  us  plodders  who  have  always  plodded  and  -always  will !" 
And  Ruth  sighed. 

"Never  mind,  Ruthie,"  said  Bettina.  "I've  eaten  a  mighty 
fine  luncheon  that  you  cooked  yourself — four  or  five  courses, 
if  I  haven't  forgdtten !" 

"Yes,  and  I  worried  every  minute  during  that  day  1" 

"We  all  do  at  first,  except  maybe  Alice !" 

"Why  worry?"  said  Alice.  "(Seems  'to  me  I've  heard  that 
expression  before.)  "^ou  girls  won't  die  if  the  biscuits  do 
fail— I'll  give  you  bread.  Harry  and  I  are  going  to  laugh  at 
our  own  mistakes — and  enjoy  them.  Isn't  that  a  good  philos- 
ophy? But,  girlis,  to  get  down  to  biscuits.  I  want  to  ask 
you — one  and  all — collectively  and  individually,  to  be  in  my 
wedding  party.  With  the  addition  of  Sister,  who  isn't  here. 
She  and  Bettina  will  be  the  matrons  of  honor.    Will  you?" 

212 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  213 

"Will  we !"  they  all  cried  with  enthusiasm. 
The  luncheon  menu  was  as  follows : 

Salmon  Salad 

Green   Beans  Butter   Sauce 

Baking-powder  Biscuits 

Watermelon  Pickles 

Cream   Puffs  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  meas'urements  are  level) 

Salmon   Salad    (Six  portions) 

I  C-salmon  i  t-salt 

I  C-diced  celery  3  hard-cooked  eggs,   cut  fine 

%  C-sweet  pickles,  cut  fine     i  C-salad  dressing 

Break  the  salmon  apart  carefully  with  a  silver  fork,  add 
the  diced  celery,  sweet  pickles,  salt  and  hard-cooked  eggs. 
Mix  together  well,  and  add  the  salad  dressing.  Arrange  on 
lettuce  leaves  in  a  salad  bowl,  garnish  with  hard-cooked  eggs 
to  represent  daisies,  and  pickles  cut  in  strips.  Serve  very 
cold.  (To  represent  daisies,  cut  the  whites  of  each  hard- 
cooked  egg  in  six  long  petals.  Arrange  these  on  the  salad. 
Cut  the  yolks  in  half,  and  place  in  the  center — round  side 
out.     Arrange  the  pickle  to  represent  stem  and  leaves.) 

Green  Beans,  Butter  Sauce  (Six  portions) 

2  C-green  beans       i  t-salt 

(canned)  H  t-paprika 

I  T-water  3  T-butter 

Remove  beans  from  the  can  and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Add 
water,  salt,  paprika  and  butter.  Cook  over  a  moderate  fire  for 
three  minutes.     Serve. 

Cream  Puffs   (Twelve  Puffs) 

I  C-boiling      %  t-salt 
water  i  C-flour 

5^  C-butter         3  eggs 

Place  the  water  and  butter  in  a  sauce  pan.  Heat  to  the 
boiling  point,  then  add  the  flour,  all  at  once,  and  stir  till  smooth. 
Cook  till  the  paste  comes  away  from  the  sides  of  the  pan.     (A 


214     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband  ! 

very  short  time.)     Remove  from  fire,  and  when  cold,  add  the  / 

unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly  after  each  | 

egg  is  added.     (The  mixture  should  be  stiff  enough  to  hold  1 

its  shape  without  spreading.)     Chill  the  paste  by  placing  in  i 

the  ice-box  and  then  drop  by  tablespoonsful  on  a  buttered  j 

sheet.     Bake  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.     When  cold,  • 

make  an  opening  in  the  side  of  each  and  fill  with  cream  | 

filling.  , 

Cream  Filling  (Twelve  portions)  j 

-| 

I  C-milk                     I  T-flour  • 
yz  C-sugar                   I  egg 

}i  t-salt                        I  t-butter  | 

4  T-cornstarch       ^  t-vanilla  : 

Mix  the  sugar,  salt,  cornstarch  and  flour.    Gradually  add  the  j 

milk  and  egg.     Cook  until  very  thick,  in  a  double  boiler.     Add  i 

the  butter  and  vanilla.     Beat  one  minute.     Cool  before  using.  . 


CHAPTER   LXIII 
MOTORING  WITH  THE  DIXONS 

^iXjOT   through   dinner  yet?"   exclaimed  the   Dixons  at 

-»-^  the  door.  "May  we  sit  down  and  wait?  It's  a  beau- 
tiful evening,  and  we've  come  to  get  you  to  take  a  long  drive 
with  us." 

"Fine,"  said  Bob.  "Come  out  to  the  dining-room  and  talk 
*^il  we're  through." 

"And  then  I'll  help  Bettina  clear  off  the  table,"  said  Char- 
lotte. "Well,  people,  it  looks  like  a  good  dinner,  and  Sher- 
lock Holmes  deduces,  moreover,  that  you  had  roast  lamb 
yesterday  for  your  Sunday  dinner." 

"You  might  also  deduce  that  we  had  baked  potatoes,  from 
which  these  creamed  ones  are  made,"  laughed  Bettina.  "Noth- 
ing else  to  guess  at,  except  that  part  of  a  cabbage  made  cold 
slaw  yesterday  and  escalloped  cabbage  today.  And  my  des- 
sert, while  simple,  has  no  secret  past,"  she  added  as  she  re- 
moved the  first  course.  "A  plain  and  simple  custard,  that's 
all." 

"Suits  me,"  said  Bob,  heartily,  "especially  when  it's  cold 
like  this." 

"By  the  way,  Bettina,"  said  Charlotte,  "did  you  ever  get  Tiu 
of  those  black  ants  you  were  telling  me  about?'* 

"Yes,  I've  never  seen  one  since." 

"Well,  you  know  how  worried  I  was  about  the  little  red 
ones  that  bothered  me.  Aunt  Isabel,  in  a  letter,  gave  me  a 
remedy  that  has  worked  like  magic." 

"Aunt  Isabel  has  her  uses,  after  all,"  teased  Frank. 

215 


216    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"I  should  say  she  has !  She  knows  all  about  housekeeping, 
from  A  to  Z !  Her  remedy  sounds  queer,  but  I  can  vouch 
for  its  efficacy,  so  if  anyone  ever  asks  you  what  to  do  for  red 
ants,  you  tell  them  this,  Bettina.  I  took  some  covers  from 
baking  powder  cans,  and  some  Mason  jar  covers,  and  some 
pie  tins,  and  chalked  the  sides  well  with  common  school  crayon. 
Then  I  set  them  on  the  pantry  shelves  to  hold  dishes  of  what- 
ever kinds  of  food  the  ants  liked.  The  ants  never  climbed 
over  those  chalked  covers  and  soon  they  had  all  disappeared. 
I  don't  have  to  use  the  chalked  tins  any  more,  but  if  I  ever 
see  a  red  ant  in  my  pantry  again,  I'll  get  out  the  chalk." 

"Couldn't  you  make  a  heavy  chalk  mark  on  the  shelf  paper 
around  the  dish  of  food?"  asked  Bob. 

*T  tried  that,  but  it  didn't  do  any  good.  But  the  other  way 
worked  beautifully." 

*T'm  glad  to  know  about  it,"  said  Bettina.  "Well,  Bob,  are 
you  ready?  It  will  take  only  a  few  minutes  to  carry  out  the 
dishes  and  pile  them  up.  I'm  sorry  we've  kept  you  people 
waiting." 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had: 

Cold  Sliced   Lamb  Creamed   Potatoes 

Chili  Sauce  Escalloped  Cabbage 

Bread  Butter 

Baked  Custard 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Escalloped  Cabbage  (Two  portions) 

I  C-cooked  cabbage     %  t-salt 
I  T-butter  ^  C-milk 

I  T-flour  2  T-fresh  bread  crumbs 

I  T-melted   butter 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  and  mix  well.  Slowly 
pour  over  the  milk  and  cook  until  creamy.  Add  the  cabbage. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Add  bread  crumbs  to 
melted  butter,  and  place  the  buttered  crumbs  on  the  cabbage. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the 
crumbs  are  browned. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  217 

Chili  Sauce  (One  and  one-half  pints) 

12  large,  ripe  tomatoes     2  T-salt 
3  green  peppers  2  T-sugar 

2  onions  i  T-ground  cinnamon 

3  C-vinegar 

Peel  the  tomatoes  and  onions,  and  chop  separately  very 
fine.  Chop  the  pepper  also,  and  add  the  salt,  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon. Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  add  the  vinegar. 
Cook  one  and  one-half  hours  over  a  moderate  fire,  stirring 
sufficiently  to  prevent  sticking.  Bottle,  and  when  cool,  seal 
with  paraffin. 

Cup  Custard  (Three  portions) 

2  eggs  %  t-salt 

2  C-milk  A  few  gratings  of 

4  T-sugar  nutmeg 

14  t-vanilla 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  the  sugar  and  milk  slowly.  Add 
salt  and  flavoring.  Stir  well.  Pour  into  well-buttered  cups. 
Sprinkle  the  nutmeg  gratings  on  the  top.  Set  the  cups  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  knife 
comes  out  clean  upon  piercing  the  custard  (about  thirty-five 
minutes).  Do  not  allow  the  water  in  the  pan  to  boil.  Serve 
the  custard  cold,  removing  from  the  cups  just  before  ready  to 
serve.    The  custards  may  be  served  in  cups. 


CHAPTER    LXIV 
RUTH    MAKES    BAKING   POWDER   BISCUITS 

4t/^H,  Ruth!"  called  Bettina  from  her  door  to  Ruth,  who 

^^  was  walking  past.    "Come  in  and  stay  to  dinner!" 

"My  dear,  I'd  love  to,  but " 

"I'm  going  to  have  baking  powder  biscuits,  and  I  remember 
that  you  were  longing  to  learn  how  to  make  them." 

"Oh,  Bettina!  Would  you  really  show  me?  I'll  simply 
have  to  come,  then.  I  hesitated  because  Aunt  Martha  is  here, 
but  I  know  she'll  excuse  me  for  one  evening.  What  time  is 
it?  Five?  I'll  take  these  packages  home  and  be  back  in  fif- 
teen minutes!'* 

When  Ruth  returned  she  found  Bettina  in  her  kitchen  with 
all  of  the  ingredients  for  the  biscuits  set  out  on  the  table. 

"Perhaps  two  cups  of  flour  will  make  too  many  for  three 
people,"  she  said,  "but  Bob  has  a  good-sized  appetite  these 
crisp  fall  days,  and  he's  fond  of  biscuits  with  jelly.  Now, 
Ruth,  you  can  get  to  work!  Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt  together,  and  then  cut  the  lard  in  this  way  with  this 
knife.  .  .  .  Fine!  Now  add  the  milk  very  slowly — perhaps 
it  will  take  a  little  more  than  two-thirds  of  a  cup,  it  all  depends 
on  the  flour.  There!  Now  pat  the  dough  into  shape  on  this 
floured  board,  and  then  you  can  cut  the  biscuits  out  with  this 
little  cutter.  Yes,  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick.  Ruth, 
those  look  fine !  We'll  wait  a  little  while  to  bake  them,  they're 
better  perfectly  fresh.  Set  them  out  in  the  cold,  there,  until 
I  have  fixed  the  macaroni,  and  they  can  pop  into  the  oven  at 
the  same  time." 

"That  was  so  easy,  Bettina.  I  do  hope  those  biscuits  will 
be  good !" 

218 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  219 

The  dinner  consisted  of : 

Lamb  Chops  Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  Jelly 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding        Cream 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 

Macaroni  and  Cheese  (Three  portions) 

y2  C-macaroni,  broken  in  pieces        4  T-cheese,  cut  in  small  pieces 

I  qt.  water  i^   C-milk 

1  t-salt  •  H  t-salt 

2  T-butter  ^  t-paprika 

3  T-flour 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  the  boiling  salted  water  until  tender. 
(About  fifteen  minutes.)  Drain  and  rinse  thoroughly  with 
cold  water.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Gradually  add  the  milk  and  cheese.  Cook  three  minutes.  Add 
the  macaroni.  Mix  well,  and  pour  into  a  well-buttered  baking 
dish.     Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 

Baking-powder  Biscuits  (Fifteen  biscuits) 

2  C-flour  Yi  t-salt 

4  t-baking    powder         3  T-lard 
2/3  C-milk 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  and  cut  in  the  fat 
with  a  knife.  Slowly  add  the  milk.  (More  or  less  may  be 
required,  as  it  depends  on  the  flour.)  Pat  into  shape  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  cutter,  place  side  by  side 
on  a  tin  pan.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Apple  Tapioca  (Three  portions) 

6  T-pearl  tapioca  3  T-sugar 

%  C-cold  water  i  C-sweetened  apple 
iH  C-boiling   water  sauce 

1/3  t-salt  5<2  t-vanilla 

Soak  the  pearl  tapioca  in  the  cold  water  for  ten  minutes 
in  the  upper  part  of  the  double  boiler.  Add  the  boiling  water, 
salt  and  sugar.  Cook  in  the  double  boiler  until  transparent. 
Add  one  cup  of  apple  sauce  and  the  vanilla.  Mix  well.  Serve 
either  hot  or  cold. 


CHAPTER  LXV 
PLANS  FOR  THE  WEDDING 

^^/^H,  Bob,  I  can  hardly  wait  to  tell  you  all  of  Alice's 

^^  wonderful  plans,"  said  Bettina. 

"Don't  wait,  then.  (Say,  these  are  my  favorite  potatoes, 
all  right!)  Well,  what  about  the  wedding?  All  the  gowns 
are  being  made,  I  suppose?" 

"Yes,  indeed.  You  know  the  four  bridesmaids  are  to  wear 
lavender  maline  over  lavender  taffeta,  very  fluffy  and  short, — 
can  you  picture  them  in  your  mind.  Bob?' 

"Not  exactly,  but  then,  go  on." 

"Well,  they're  nearly  finished.  I  saw  them  today,  and 
they're  lovely.  The  girls  are  to  carry  lavender  maline  muffs, 
too — the  round  kind  with  fluffy  bows  at  each  end,  and  little 
pink  rosebuds  around  the  hand,  you  know.  Then  a  corsage 
bouquet  of  violets  with  a  pink  rose  in  the  center  will  be  pinned 
on  each  muff.  The  bridesmaids  will  also  wear  lavender  maline 
hats,  with  fluffy  tam  o'  shanter  crowns  and  pink  rosebuds 
around  them." 

"Is  that  what  you'll  wear  ?" 

"No,  Lillian  and  I  are  the  matrons  of  honor,  and  we  will  be 
all  in  white,  with  white  muffs,  and  corsage  bouquets  of  pink 
roses  on  them.  Won't  that  be  lovely?  I  don't  know  yet 
whether  Lillian's  little  Elizabeth,  who  will  scatter  rose  petals 
from  a  fluffy  long-handled  basket,  is  to  wear  pink  or  white. 
Oh,  I  wish  you  might  have  seen  the  girls  this  afternoon !  We 
tried  on  our  dresses  and  planned  the  hats  and  muffs.     I  shall 

220 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  221 

begin  my  muff  this  evening ;  won't  that  be  exciting?" 
For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Pork  Chops  Bettina's  Potatoes 

Date  Bread  Butter 

Head  Lettuce  French  Dressing 

Chocolate  Sponge  Cake 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Bettina's  Potatoes   (Two  portions) 

1  C-cold  cooked  potatoes  diced  1  T-pimento,  cut  up 

1  T-butter  1  piece   of  soft  cheese — a   l-inch 

V/i  T-fiour  cube 

y2  t-salt 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  cheese  and  salt.  Mix  well, 
and  add  the  milk  gradually.  Cook  until  thick  and  creamy. 
Add  the  pimento  and  potatoes.  Serve  hot.  (Bob  considers 
this  dish  superfine.) 

Date  Nut  Bread  (Twelve  pieces) 

I  C-graham    flour  4  T-nut  meats 

1  C-w^hite  flour  3  T-chopped    dates 

y2  C-"C"  sugar  3  t-baking  powder 

I  t-salt  I   C-milk 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Place  in  a  well- 
buttered  bread  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty- 
five  minutes. 

Chocolate  Sponge  Cake  (Fourteen  cakes) 

5  T-butter  ^  t-cloves 

4  T-cocoa  I  C-flour 

I  tgs  3  t-baking  powder 

%  C-sugar  y2  C-cold  water 

I  t-cinnamon  J/^  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar.  Stir  in  the  tgg  and  beat 
well.  Add  the  cinnamon,  cloves,  baking  powder,  cocoa,  flour, 
vanilla  and  water.  Beat  vigorously  for  two  minutes.  Bake 
in  well-buttered  gem  pans  for  eighteen  minutes.  Serve  warm 
if  desired. 


CHAPTER   LXVI 
A  GUEST  TO  A  DINNER  OF  LEFT-OVERS 

^^  A  HA,  I've  found  you  out!"  Bettina  heard  a  laughing 

-^  ^  voice  shout  as  she  hurried  up  the  steps. 

"Why,  Jack,  when  did  you  come  to  town?" 

"This  afternoon.  Went  to  Bob's  office  the  very  first  thing, 
and  he  insisted  on  bringing  me  home  with  him  to  dinner.  I 
told  him  it  might  'put  you  out,'  but  he  spent  the  time  it  took 
to  come  home  assuring  me  that  you  were  always  waiting  for 
company — kept  a  light  ever  burning  in  the  window  for  them 
and  all  that.  He  said  that  I'd  see, — that  you'd  be  on  the  door- 
step waiting  for  us !" 

"And  after  all  that — you  weren't  here !"  said  Bob  reproach- 
fully. 

"I'm  just  as  sorry  as  I  can  be  not  to  live  up  to  Bob's  picture 
of  me,"  said  Bettina.  "I  generally  am  waiting  for  Bob, — 
almost  on  the  doorstep  if  not  quite.  But  this  afternoon  I've 
been  to  a  shower  for  Alice, — do  you  remember  Alice,  Jack?" 
"Very  well.  The  gay  dark-eyed  one.  You  don't  mean  to 
say  that  she's  found  a  man  who's  lively  enough  to  suit  her.''" 

"Well,  she  seems  to  be  suited,  all  right.  But  I  must  fly  into 
an  apron  if  you  boys  are  to  get  any  dinner  within  a  half-hour. 
Jack,  you'll  have  to  pardon  me  if  after  all  of  Bob's  eloquence 
I  give  you  a  meal  of  left-overs " 

"Don't  apologize  to  a  bachelor,  Bettina.  He  probably  won't 
know  left-overs  from  the  real  thing,"  said  Bob. 

"Bachelors  are  said  to  be  the  most  critical  of  all,"  she  an- 
swered.    "But  I'll  do  my  little  best  to  please." 

That  night  Bettina  served: 

222 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  223 

Roast  Beef  Pie 

Bread  Butter 

Sliced  Tomatoes  with  Salad  Dressing 

Marble  Cake  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Roast  Beef  Pie  (Three  portions) 
2  C-chopped  cold  roast  beef  i  C-flour 

I  C-gravy  2  t-baking  powder 

1  C-cold  diced  potatoes  (cooked)       2  t-Iard 

2  T-chopped  onion  Yz  t-salt 

6  T-milk 

Mix  the  beef,  gravy,  potato  and  onion.  Place  in  a  shallow 
buttered  baking  dish.  Make  a  biscuit  dough  by  cutting  the 
lard  into  the  flour,  which  has  been  sifted  with  the  baking 
powder,  and  salt,  and  gradually  adding  the  milk.  Pat  the 
dough  into  shape  and  arrange  carefully  on  top  of  the  meat. 
Make  holes  in  the  top  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Marble  Cake  (Fourteen  slices) 
I  C-sugar     ^  C-butter 

Cream  together  and  divide  into  two  parts,  half  for  light  and 
half  for  dark. 

Dark  Part 

To   one   half  add: 
54  C-molasses         i  t-baking  powder 
1/2  C-milk  I  t-powdered  cinnamon 

2  egg-yolks         J^  t-powdered  cloves 
I  C-flour  y^  t-grated  nutmeg 

^  t-vanilla 

Mix  this  together  thoroughly  and  set  aside  while  the  light 
part  is  being  mixed. 

Light  Part 

To  the  other  half  of  the  butter  and  sugar  add: 

Yz   C-milk  Y2  t-vanilla 

I  C-flour  Whites  of  two  eggs 

I  t-baking  powder  beaten  stiff 

Put  large  spoonfuls  of  light  and  dark  batter,  alternating,  in 
a  loaf  cake  pan  well  fitted  with  waxed  paper,  until  the  pan  is 
two-thirds  full.     Bake  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER   LXVII 

A   HANDKERCHIEF    SHOWER 

^^TTTHAT  a  cunning  table!"  exclaimed  four  girls  in  vari- 
^^  ous  words  and  ways.  Ruth  and  Bettina  smiled  hap- 
pily to  each  other,  for  they,  too,  had  admired  the  low  bowl 
of  purple  and  yellow  pansies  in  the  center,  and  the  tiny  indi- 
vidual vases  for  a  few  pansies  at  each  place.  The  dainty 
doilies  were  also  attractive,  and  Ruth  had  darkened  the  room 
and  lit  the  small  yellow  candles  on  the  table. 

"But  Bettina  helped  with  the  souffle  and  the  gold  hearts," 
she  said  gallantly.  "Did  you  see  her  disappear  a  short  time 
ago  ?  She  was  baking  the  cakes.  When  she  suggested  refresh- 
ments that  should  be  made  just  before  they  were  served,  I 
was  frightened.  But  when  she  offered  to  bake  the  things, 
you  may  be  sure  I  was  delighted." 

At  this  moment  a  small  figure  appeared  in  the  doorway. 
"Weady,  Cousin  Wuth?" 

"Yes,  dear." 

In  popped  little  Marjorie,  Ruth's  cousin,  carrying  a  huge 
bouquet  of  handkerchiefs  folded  like  white  roses,  fastened 
somehow  to  long  stems  with  green  leaves  attached,  tied  with 
streaming  yellow  satin  ribbon.  Making  a  low  bow  to  Alice, 
she  recited  in  a  baby  voice: 

"A  handkerchief  posie  to  carry  each  day. 
We  trust  they  will  not  come  amiss, 
In  fact,  we  are  sure  that  no  other  bouquet 
Was  ever  so  useful  as  this !" 

"Thank  you,  you  darling !"  said  Alice,  receiving  the  gift  with 
delight. 

224 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  225 

Ruth  served: 

Apricot  Souffle  Whipped  Cream 

Gold  Hearts 

Salted   Peanuts  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Apricot  Souffle   (Soo-Flay)   "Lightened  with  Air"   (Six  portions) 

^^  lb.  dried  apricots  14,  t-salt 

Yz  C-sugar  3  eggs 

I  t-lemon  extract  or  i       i  t-baking  powder 
t-lemon  juice  %  t-vanilla 

6  candied  cherries 

Wash  the  dried  apricots  and  soak  for  three  hours  in  sufifi- 
cient  water  to  cover  them.  Cook  slowly  until  tender  (about 
ten  minutes)  in  the  same  water  in  which  they  were  soaked. 
Press  through  a  colander,  add  the  sugar  and  cook  until  very 
thick,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  Add  salt  and 
extract.  Allow  to  cool.  Beat  the  egg  whites  until  very  stiff, 
add  the  baking-powder,  apricots  and  vanilla.  Stir  just 
enough  to  mix.  Pour  into  well  buttered  individual  tin  or 
aluminum  moulds  until  two-thirds  full.  Place  the  moulds  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
Turn  off  the  fire  and  allow  the  pans  to  remain  in  a  warm 
place  so  that  they  will  not  fall.  When  slightly  cool,  remove 
carefully  and  serve  as  quickly  as  possible.  Place  whipped 
cream  and  a  candied  cherry  on  the  top. 

Whipped  Cream  (Six  portions) 

%   C-heavy  cream     %  t-vanilla 
I  t-sugar  3  drops  of  lemon  extract 

Beat  the  cream  until  thick,  add  the  sugar,  vanilla  and  lemon 
extract.     Place  in  a  cool  place  until  used. 

Gold  Hearts  (Twelve  Hearts) 

s  4  T-butter  %   C-milk 

^  C-sugar  %  C-flour 
3  egg-yolks       i  t-lemon  extract 
I  T-water  i  t-baking-powder 

j/s  t-salt 


226    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  mix  well.  Add  the 
egg  yolks,  beaten  well,  and  the  water,  milk,  flour,  baking- 
powder,  lemon  extract  and  salt.  Beat  for  two  minutes.  Pour 
into  a  large  flat  pan  prepared  with  waxed  paper.  The  batter 
should  be  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick  in  the  pan.  Bake 
twelve  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Remove  the  paper,  and 
cut  when  cool  with  a  heart-shaped  cooky  cutter.  Wet  the 
cutter  with  water  before  using,  as  this  assures  even  edges. 
Keep  in  a  moist  place  until  ready  to  serve. 

Salted  Almonds   (Six  portions) 

y^  lb.    almonds    (shelled)      i  t-salt 
I  qt.  boiling  water  3  T-olive  oil 

Allow  the  almonds  to  stand  in  boiling  water  in  a  covered 
utensil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Rinse  off  with  hot  water  and 
place  in  a  colander.  Remove  the  skins.  Place  oil  in  a  frying- 
pan  when  hot,  add  nuts.  Stir  constantly  over  a  moderate  fire 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  into  a  clean  cloth.  Rub  off  any 
oil  which  has  remained  on  the  almonds.  Sprinkle  salt  over 
the  nuts  while  warm.  When  thoroughly  cooled,  place  the 
almonds  in  a  covered  tin  can  until  ready  to  serve. 


CHAPTER   LXVIII 
JUST   THE   TWO    OF   THEM 

^^TT  seems  good  to  be  alone  this  evening,  doesn't  it,  Bet- 

-■-  tina?"  said  Bob,  as  they  sat  down  to  dinner.  "Or  are 
you  growing  so  accustomed  to  gaiety  lately  that  a  dinner  for 
two  is  a  bore?" 

"Bob !"  said  Bettina  reproachfully.  "If  I  thought  you  really 
believed  that  I  was  ever  bored  by  a  dinner  for  the  two  of 
us, — well,  I'd  never  be  in  a  wedding  party  again !  Alice  likes 
excitement,  and  I  suppose  that  next  week  will  be  very  gay,  but 
after  the  wedding  I  hope  that  you  and  I  can  have  a  quiet 
winter,  with  just  invitations  enough  to  keep  us  from  becoming 
too  stupid." 

"But  tell  me  what  the  wedding  will  be  like.  Is  it  all  planned 
down  to  the  last  detail?  I  suppose  it  is,  although  Harry 
doesn't  seem  to  have  any  idea  what  it  is  to  be." 

"Poor  Harry,  he  seems  to  be  left  out  of  most  of  the  showers 
and  parties  so  far." 

"Don't  pity  him ;  he  wouldn't  go  if  he  could.  I'm  just 
wondering  what  they'll  do  after  the  wedding.  Will  Alice 
go  and  Harry  stay  at  home  ?  Or,  will  he  be  obliging  and  force 
himself  to  go,  too?" 

"I  don't  know,  I'm  sure.  Alice  is  so  full  of  life  that  I  don't 
see  how  she  can  settle  down  and  never  go  anywhere,  as  Harry 
would  have  her.  But  time  will  tell.  Perhaps  they'll  compro- 
mise. Meanwhile,  we  must  plan  some  sort  of  a  shower  or 
prenuptial  party  that  Harry  can  enjoy,  too.  One  with  the  men 
included,  I  mean.     Of  course,  I  know  he  hates  parties,  but  I 

227 


228     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

think  he  would  really  like  a  very  jolly  informal  one  with  just 
a  few  friends !" 

The  dinner  for  two  consisted  of: 

Cold  Sliced  Lamb  Baked  Potatoes 

Creamed  Carrots  and  Peas 

Bread  Butter 

Apple  Dumplings 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements   are   level) 

Creamed   Carrots  and  Peas   (Three  portions) 

1/2  C-cooked,  diced        ^  t-salt 

carrots  1  T-butter 

1/2  C-peas  1  T-flour 

H  C-milk 

Melt  the  but'ter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  gradually  add  the 
milk.  Cook  two  minutes.  Add  the  peas  and  carrots.  Serve 
very  hot. 

Apple  Dumpling  (Three  portions) 

Yz  C-flour  1  T-lard 

1  t-baking  powder  2  T-milk 

y%  t-salt  2  apples 

4  T-sugar  3^  t-cinnamon 

Mix  the  flour,  baking-powder  and  salt,  cut  in  the  lard  with 
a  knife.  Add  the  liquid,  mixing  to  a  soft  dough.  Roll  on  a 
well  floured  board  to  one-fourth  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Wash,  pare  and  quarter  the  apples.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon.  Cut  the  dough  in  five  inch  squares ;  place  two 
quarters  of  apple  in  the  center  of  a  square ;  moisten  the  edges 
of  the  dough  with  water  and  bring  the  four  corners  together 
around  the  apple.  Place  in  a  tin  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  apples  are  soft.  (About  thirty  minutes.)  Serve 
warm  with  cream. 


CHAPTER  LXIX 
A  LUNCHEON  IN  THE  COUNTRY 

^^/^H,  Charlotte,  I've  just  come  from  the  loveHest  lunch- 

^^  eon,"  said  Bettina,  coming  face  to  face  with  Mrs. 
Dixon  in  front  of  her  own  home. 

"You  have?    Another  for  AHce?" 

"No,  this  was  in  the  country — on  the  interurban,  at  Cousin 
Kate's.  Frances,  her  daughter,  who  was  married  last  spring, 
has  come  home  on  a  visit,  and  Cousin  Kate  was  entertaining 
for  her." 

"Tell  me  about  it !" 

"Oh,  it  was  just  an  informal  luncheon,  but  I  couldn't  help 
thinking  how  delicious  everything  was,  and  at  the  same  time 
inexpensive.  In  fact,  I  wrote  down  several  of  Cousin  Kate's 
recipes  after  the  guests  had  gone,  and  I'm  sure  that  there 
aren't  many  such  inexpensive  luncheons  that  are  also  so  good." 

"You  must  let  me  have  some  of  the  recipes." 

"Of  course  I  will.     Come  in  now,  and  copy  them." 

"I  can't  possibly,  Bettina.  As  it  is,  I'm  afraid  that  Frank 
will  be  home  before  I  am.     It's  almost  six  o'clock  now." 

"Is  it?  Then  I  must  hurry  in  and  start  dinner;  I  want  to 
make  some  muffins.  I  hate  to  have  Bob  eat  a  cold  dinner 
just  because  I've  been  out  in  the  afternoon ;  in  fact,  I  usually 
spend  more  time  than  usual  in  the  morning  fixing  some  dessert 
that  he  especially  likes,  if  I'm  to  be  out  in  the  afternoon. 
Good-bye,  Charlotte !" 

"Good-bye,  dear!" 

The  luncheon  menu  was  as  follows : 

229 


230    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Oyster  Cocktail  in  Pepper  Cases 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup  Croutons 

Cheese  Timbales  Creamed  Peas 

Baked  Apples 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit 

Green  Bean  Salad  Salted  Wafers 

Lemon  Sherbet  Devil's  Food  White  Icing 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Oyster  Cocktail  in  Pepper  Cases  (Six  portions) 

6  green  peppers  i  T-lemon  juice 

I  pint  oysters  i  T-horseradish 

5  T-tomato  catsup     J^  t-salt 
y2  t-tabasco  sauce 

Cut  the  stem  end  from  the  sweet  green  peppers.  Remove 
the  seeds  and  allow  to  stand  in  iced  water.  Pick  over  the 
oysters  to  remove  any  shells,  and  surround  with  chipped  ice 
until  ready  to  serve.  Mix  the  catsup,  lemon  juice,  horse 
radish,  salt  and  tobasco  sauce.  Fill  each  pepper  with  four 
oysters,  and  put  on  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  on  the  top. 
Serve  very  cold. 

Cheese  Timbales  (Six  portions) 

I  T-butter  %  t-paprika 

I  T-flour  y^  C-fresh,  soft  bread  crumbs 

y2  C-milk  y^,  C-grated  American  cheese 

y2  t-salt  I  ^gg 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  well, 
gradually  add  the  milk,  cheese  and  bread  crumbs.  Cook  three 
minutes,  and  then  stir  in  the  egg,  well  beaten.  Butter  six 
timbale  moulds  well.  Place  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Allow  to  stand 
three  minutes,  and  remove  from  the  moulds.  Serve  hot  with 
creamed  peas. 

Bettina's  Green  String  Bean   Salad    (Six  portions) 

I  C-cooked  green  beans  i  t-salt 

H  C-cut  celery  y  t-paprika 

^  C-pimento,  cut  fine  5^  C-salad  dressing 

I  hard-cooked  tgg,  diced  6  pieces  of  lettuce 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  231 

Mix  thoroughly  the  beans,  celery,  pimento,  egg,  salt  and 
paprika.  Add  the  salad  dressing  and  serve  on  a  piece  of  crisp 
lettuce. 

Devil's  Food  Cake   (Twenty-four  pieces) 

2  C-brown  sugar  3  squares  chocolate 

1  C-milk  2  C-flour 
i^  C-butter  i  t-soda 

2  eggs  I  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar.  Mix  egg  yolks,  the 
other  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk  and  chocolate;  cook  two 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When  cool,  add  this  to  the  first 
mixture.  Add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  vanilla,  the  flour  and  soda 
sifted  together.  Beat  two  minutes.  Add  stiffly  beaten  tgg 
whites.  Fill  two  tin  pans  prepared  with  waxed  paper,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  When  cool,  ice  with 
white  icing. 


CHAPTER   LXX 

A   "PAIR   SHOWER"   FOR  ALICE 

XTTHEN  Bettina  called  the  girls  into  the  dining-room  after 
▼  ^  several  hours  spent  in  hemming  dish  towels  for  Alice, 
they  exclaimed  that  the  time  had  passed  so  quickly.  The 
table  was  set  for  twelve,  and  the  chair  at  the  right  of  the 
hostess  was  gaily  decorated  with  white  ribbon  and  white  paper 
flowers. 

"Oh,  for  me  ?"  cried  Alice.  "How  important  I  feel !" 
As  soon  as  the  girls  were  seated,  Ruth  rose  and  placed  be- 
fore the  guest  of  honor  a  large  wicker  basket  heaped  high 
with  packages  of  all  shapes  and  sizes,  each  wrapped  in  white 
tissue  paper  and  tied  with  white  ribbon.  A  card  hung  from 
the  handle  of  the  basket.     "I'll  read  it  aloud !"  laughed  Alice. 

"Dear  Alice,  we  have  tried  to  choose 
Some  gifts  for  you  that  come  by  twos. 

A  few,  perhaps,  you'll  often  use. 

While  some  may  comfort  and  amuse, 

If  you  should  chance  to  get  the  blues, 
When  household  cares  your  mind  confuse. 

"This  basket,  which  our  blessing  bears. 

Besides  the  gifts  that  come  in  pairs. 
Our  friendship  and  our  love  declares. 

'Twill  share  your  troubles  and  your  cares 
And  hold  the  hose  that  Harry  wears. 

So  keep  them  free  from  holes  and  tears." 

"Goodness !"  cried  Alice.    "The  thought  of  my  future  cares 

232 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  233 

frightens  me!  But  now  I  must  open  all  the  packages!" 
She  discovered  a  salt  and  pepper  shaker,  a  pair  of  guest 
towels,  a  pair  of  hose,  a  sugar  bowl  and  a  creamer,  and  many 
other  gifts  in  pairs.  It  was  a  long  time  before  the  girls  could 
calm  down  sufficiently  to  eat  the  luncheon  that  Bettina,  with 
Ruth's  assistance,  set  before  them. 
Bettina  served: 

Bettina's  Tuna  Salad 

Date  Bread  Sandwiches  Salted   Peanuts 

Maple  Ice  Cream        White  Cake  with  Maple  Icing 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Tuna  Salad   (Twelve  portions) 

2  C-tuna  fish  4  T-pimento,  cut  fine 

2  C-diced  celery  2  t-salt 

3  hard-cooked  eggs,  diced  ^   t-paprika 

3  T-green  pepper,  chopped  fine       i  T-lemon  juice 

4  T-sweet  pickle,  chopped  fine       i   C-salad   dressing 

Mix  the  tuna,  celery,  eggs,  sweet  pickle,  pepper,  salt  and 
paprika  with  a  silver  fork.  (Care  should  always  be  taken  not 
to  mash  salads.)  Add  the  salad  dressing;  more  than  a  cup 
may  be  necessary.  Keep  very  cold,  and  serve  attractively  on 
a  lettuce  leaf. 

Salad  Dressing   (Twelve  portions) 

4  egg-yolks  I  t-mustard 

^  C-vinegar  4  T-sugar 

^/2  C-water  %  t-paprika 

I  t-salt  2  T-flour 

Beat  the  egg  yolks,  add  the  vinegar.  Mix  the  salt,  mustard, 
sugar,  paprika  and  flour  thoroughly.  Slowly  add  the  water, 
taking  care  not  to  let  the  mixture  get  lumpy.  Pour  into  the 
yolks  and  vinegar.  Cook  slowly,  stirring  constantly  until  thick 
and  creamy.     Thin  with  sour  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Date  Bread  (Eighteen  Sandwiches) 

1  C-graham  flour  2  t-salt 

2  C-white  flour  1/3  pound  of  dates,  cut  fine 

3  t-baking    powder  ij^   C-milk 
1/3  C-"C"  sugar  i  egg 


234     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  the  flour,  baking-powder,  sugar,  salt  and  dates  ground 
fine.  Beat  the  tgg  with  a  fork,  and  add  the  milk.  Pour 
slowly  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pour 
into  two  well-buttered  bread  pans.  Allow  to  stand  fifteen 
minutes  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
cold,  cut  very  thin  and  spread  with  butter  for  sandwiches. 
Date  bread  is  better  for  sandwiches  when  one  day  old. 

Maple  Icing 

1 5^  C-maple  sugar  2/3  C-milk 

iJ4  C-granulated  sugar         i  t-butter 
ys  t-cream  of  tartar 

Cook  all  the  mgredients  together  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed 
when  a  little  is  dropped  into  cold  water.  Beat  until  creamy 
enough  to  pour  on  the  cake. 

Salted  Peanuts   (Twelve  portions) 

2/3  lb.  peanuts  (shelled)     4  T-olive  oil 
2  t-salt 

Cover  the  peanuts  with  boiling  water;  allow  to  stand  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Place  one-third  of  the  amount  in  a  strainer 
(allowing  remainder  to  stay  in  water)  and  remove  the  skins. 
Prepare  all  the  peanuts  the  same  way.  Place  two  tablespoons 
of  oil  in  the  frying  pan,  when  hot  add  the  peanuts ;  stir  con- 
stantly with  a  fork  and  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  fifteen  min- 
utes. When  brown  remove  the  nuts,  add  another  tablespoon 
of  oil  and  another  third  of  the  peanuts,  continue  until  all  the 
tiuts  are  cooked.  Add  the  salt.  Lard  may  be  used  in  place 
of  oil,  but  the  latter  makes  the  nuts  taste  and  brown  better. 


CHAPTER  LXXI 
BOB  MAKES  POPCORN  BALLS 

^^C^  H,  I  forgot  to  tell  you,  Bettina,"  said  Bob  at  the  dinner 

^^  table,  **the  Dixons  are  coming  over  this  evening. 
Frank  asked  me  if  we  would  be  at  home." 

"I'm  so  glad  they're  coming,"  said  Bettina.  "I  haven't  seen 
Charlotte  for  several  weeks ;  I  have  been  so  busy  with  the 
affairs  we  girls  have  been  giving  for  Alice.  But  I  wish  I  had 
known  this  afternoon  that  they  were  coming.  I'd  like  to 
celebrate  with  a  little  supper,  but  I  haven't  a  single  thing  in 
the  house  that  is  suitable." 

There's  the  cider  that  Uncle  John  brought  us,"  suggested 
Bob. 

"Yes,"  said  Bettina,  "we  might  have  cider.     But  what  else  ?" 

"I'll  tell  you,"  said  Bob,  "I'll  make  some  popcorn  balls.  I've 
made  them  before,  and  I  know  exactly  how." 

"I'll  help,"  said  Bettina. 

"No,  I  won't  need  you  at  all ;  I'm  the  chef." 

"Well,  Bobbie,  at  least  you'll  let  me  look  on.  May  I  be 
washing  the  dishes  at  the  same  time?" 

"Yes,  I'll  permit  that.  These  are  going  to  be  champion 
popcorn  balls,  I  can  tell  you,  Bettina — as  big  as  pumpkins !" 

"We'll  serve  them  in  that  large  flat  wicker  basket,  and  I'm 
sure  they'll  look  and  taste  delicious.  But  we  must  hurry, 
Bob ;  it's  after  seven  now !" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had: 

Broiled  Ham  Mashed  Potatoes 

Chili  Sauce  Creamed  Onions  Hot  Scones 

Prune  Blanc  Mange  with  Cream 

235 


236    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Broiled  Ham   (Four  portions) 
I  lb.  ham    2  C-milk 

Soak  a  one-half  inch  slice  of  ham  in  one  cup  of  lukewarm 
milk  for  half  an  hour.  Drain  and  wipe  dry.  Place  in  a  hot 
tin  pan  and  cook  for  five  minutes  directly  under  the  flame, 
turning  frequently  to  prevent  burning. 

Scones  (Fourteen  scones) 

2  C-flour  I  ^gg 

4  t-baking  powder2/3  C-milk 
1/3  t-salt  I  T-"C"  sugar 

2  T-lard  J^  t-cinnamon 

Mix  the  flour,  baking-powder  and  salt.  Cut  in  the  lard  with 
a  knife,  add  all  but  one  teaspoonful  of  the  beaten  tgg,  then 
add  the  milk  gradually.  Mix  with  a  knife  into  a  soft  dough. 
Pat  into  a  square  shape  one-half  inch  thick.  Brush  over  the 
top  with  one  teaspoonful  of  tgg  and  sprinkle  with  the  sugar 
and  cinnamon  (mixed  thoroughly).  Cut  into  one  and  one- 
half  inch  squares.  Place  in  a  tin  pan  and  bake  twelve  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven. 

Prune  Blanc  Mange  (Four  portions) 

2  T-cornstarch  ^  t-salt 

2  T-sugar  ^  C-cooked,  cut  prunes 

4  T-cold  milk  H  t-lemon  extract 

2/3  C-hot  milk  y2  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt,  and  add  the  cold  milk 
slowly.  Gradually  add  the  hot  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler 
for  twenty  minutes.  Add  the  prunes,  lemon  extract  and  vanilla. 
Beat  well,  and  serve  cold  v>^ith  cream. 


CHAPTER  LXXII 

AND  WHERE  WAS  THE  DINNER? 

ii  T  T  ELLO !"  called  Bob  at  the  door  one  evening-. 
XJl        No  answer. 

"Hello,  Bettina!"  he  called  agam.  Again  the  dark  house 
gave  forth  no  reply. 

Feeling,  it  must  be  admitted,  a  little  out  of  harmony  with  a 
world  that  allowed  weary  and  hungry  husbands  to  come  home 
to  dark  and  empty  houses  when  the  clock  said  plainly  that  it 
w-as  a  quarter  after  six,  Bob  made  his  way  to  the  kitchen. 
Perhaps  Bettina  had  left  his  dinner  there  for  him;  perhaps 
she  had  been  called  away,  or  perhaps,  even,  she  had  rushed 
out  on  some  errand  after  dinner  preparations  were  begun. 
The  kitchen,  however,  was  'SO  immaculate  as  to  seem  distinctly 
forbidding  to  a  hungry  man  whose  appetite  was  growing 
keener  every  minute.  And  he  had  been  thinking  all  the  way 
home  that  a  hot  dinner  would  taste  so  good ! 

At  that  moment  a  clamor  of  voices  at  the  door  aroused  him. 

"You  poor  old  Bob !"  cried  Bettina,  kissing  him  tw^ice  before 
Fred  and  Ruth  without  the  least  embarrassment.  "Have  you 
waited  long?" 

"It  seemed  hours,"  admitted  Bob. 

"Ruth  and  I  have  been  to  a  tea  for  Alice.  Fred  came  for 
her  there,  and  I  persuaded  them  to  come  home  to  dinner  with 
me.  I'll  give  you  each  isomething  to  do  while  I  stirr  up  a  little 
cottage  pudding.    Then  dinner  will  be  ready  in  half  an  hour." 

"Half  an  hour?"  cried  Bob.  "But,  Bettina,  where  is  the 
dinner?     I  didn't  see  any!" 

"In  the  fireless  cooker,  you  crazy  boy!  Are  you  'most 
starvftd?" 

237 


238    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Well,"  said  Bob,  "that  cooker  was  the  neatest,  stiffest- 
looking  thing  in  the  kitchen !  I  didn't  dream  that  it  was 
busily  cooking  a  dinner.  Say,  I'll  be  glad  to  see  a  hot  meal 
again !" 

The  dinner  consisted  of : 

Round  Steak  with  Vegetables 

Dutch  Cheese 

Bread  Plum  Butter 

Cottage   Pudding  Vanilla  Sauce 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Round  Steak  with  Vegetables  (Six  portions) 

2  lbs.   round   steak      2  T-flour 
6  potatoes  2  T-lard 

6  carrots  2  t-salt 

6  onions  ji  t-paprika 

%  C-water 

Pound  the  flour  into  the  round  steak  with  the  edge  of  a 
small  plate.  This  breaks  the  fibers  of  the  meat,  making  it 
more  tender.  Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes,  slicing  in  half 
lengthwise.  Scrape  the  carrots,  and  cut  into  one-half  inch 
slices  lengthwise.  Wash  the  onions  and  remove  their  outside 
skins.  Sprinkle  the  vegetables  with  one  and  a  half  level  tea- 
spoons of  salt,  and  the  paprika.  Add  the  water,  and  place  in 
the  bottom  of  the  large  fireless  cooker  utensil.  Place  the  lard 
in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  hot,  add  the  meat.  Brown  thor- 
oughly on  each  side.  Salt  the  meat  with  one-half  level  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  place  in  the  kettle  on  top  of  the  vegetables. 
Place  the  heated  disks  of  the  fireless  cooker  over  and  under 

the  utensil,  and  cook  at  least  one  hour  in  the  cooker, 
t 

Cottage  Pudding   (Six  portions) 


VA  C-flour 

I  Ggg 

3  t-baking  powder 

y2  C-milk 

li  t-salt 

1/2  t-vanilla 

5^2  C-sugar 

3  T-melted  butter 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar.  Add  the  egg, 
milk  and  vanilla,  and  beat  one  minute.  Add  the  melted  butter, 
and  pour  into  a  well  buttered  tin  pan.  Bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.    Serve  warm  with  vanilla  sauce. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  239 

Vanilla  Sauce  (Six  portions) 


2/3  C-sugar 

H  t-lemon  extract 

3  T-flour 

%  t-salt 

I  t-vanilla 

iK  C-water 

I 

t-butter 

Mix  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt  thoroughly.  Add  the  water 
slowly.  Boil  two  minutes.  Add  the  vanilla,  lemon  extract, 
and  butter.  Beat  one  minute  and  serve.  If  too  thick,  more 
water  may  be  added. 


CHAPTER   LXXIII 
ALICE   TELLS    HER   TROUBLES 

^^  A  -^D  t^^  minute  I  caught  a  glimpse  of  you,  Bettina,  at 

-^^  the  tea  this  afternoon,  I  thought,  *Oh,  if  Betty  would 
only  ask  me  to  go  home  with  her  to  a  sensible  homelike  din- 
ner, with  no  one  there  but  herself  and  Bob '  " 

"Not  even  Harry,  Alice?" 

"No,  not  even  Harry !  Fm  so  sick  and  tired  of  teas  and 
dressmakers  and  wedding  gowns  and  bridesmaids  that  I'm 
tired  even  of  Harry,  too!     Almost." 

"But,  Alice,  then  why  do  it  all?  Why  have  all  this  fuss  and 
feathers?"  And  Bettina's  knife,  with  which  she  was  cutting 
bread,  came  down  with  a  click  of  vehemence.  "It  has  always 
seemed  silly  to  me — all  the  worry  and  bother " 

"But  what  can  I  do  now,  Bettina?  I've  started,  and  I'll 
have  to  go  through  with  it !  Why,  even  now,  I  ought  to  be 
home  for  dinner — mother  has  several  guests — but  I  phoned 
her  that  I  had  a  headache  and  was  coming  here,  where  I 
could  be  quiet.  And  I  do  have  a  headache — and  no  appetite, 
and " 

"Just  wait  till  you  taste  this  nice  brown  meat  that  I  have 
in  the  oven,  Alice !  The  trouble  with  you  is  that  you've  been 
eating  silly  party  food  for  such  a  long  time.  And  tonight 
you  are  to  have  a  sensible  dinner  with  plain  people." 

"Plain  people  ?  Who  calls  me  plain  ?"  interrupted  Bob,  com- 
ing in  like  a  tornado.  "Hello,  Alice!  How  can  you  spare 
any  time  from  all  these  festivities  I  hear  about?'* 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

240 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  241 

Rolled  Flank  of  Beef  with  Bread   Dressing 

Browned  Potatoes  Hot  Slaw 

Prune  Pudding  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Rolled   Flank   of   Beef    (Four   portions) 

1  lb.  round  steak  one  inch  thick     i  t-salt 

2  T-flour  2  one-inch  cubes  of  suet 

Wipe  the  meat,  trim  the  edges,  pound  on  both  sides  with 
the  edge  of  a  plate  to  break  the  tendon.  Place  the  dressing 
(given  below)  on  the  steak,  roll,  and  tie  with  a  cord.  Roll 
in  the  flour  and  salt.  Place  in  a  small  dripping  pan,  put  the 
suet  on  the  top  of  the  meat,  add  enough  water  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifty 
mifiutes.     Baste  frequently. 

,  Bread  Dressing 

I   C-soft  bread  crumbs  ^  t-celery  salt 

I  T-melted  butter  ^  t-salt 

I  t-chopped  parsley  Ys  t-pepper 

1/2  t-chopped  onion  2  T-water 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named,  stirring  lightly 
with  a  fork.  Place  in  shape  on  the  meat.  Care  should  be 
taken  not  to  have  the  dressing  soggy  or  heavy. 

Prune   Pudding    (Four   portions) 

I  C-cooked,   seeded  and       i  t-vanilla 
chopped    prunes 
54  C-sugar 

54  C-nut   meats,   cut  fine       i  t-baking  powder 
K  C-milk  H  t-salt 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named.  Pour  into  a 
well-buttered  shallow  earthenware  dish.  Place  the  dish  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven,  or  until  the  mixture  is  firm.  Serve  warm.  Individual 
amounts  may  be  made  in  moulds. 


CHAPTER   LXXIV 
THE  DIXONS  COME  TO  DINNER 

ii^HARLOTTE,  you  must  have  Bettina  tell  you  how  to 

^^>*   cook  fish  this  way,"  said  Frank. 

'Tt's  the  Bechamel  sauce  on  it  that  you  like,  I  suspect,"  said 
Bettina.  "And  it  isn't  at  all  hard  to  make.  I  serve  it  with 
so  many  things.     We  like  it  with  carrots " 

"Oh,  is  it  the  very  same  sauce  that  you  serve  with  carrots'*?" 
said  Charlotte.  "I  can  make  it,  Frank.  ITi  have  it  for  din- 
ner one  of  these  days,  with  halibut,  just  as  Bettina  has  served 
it  tonight." 

"There  is  only  one  thing  to  think  about  especially  in  making 
it,"  said  Bettina.  "After  you  have  beaten  the  egg  slightly,  add 
a  very  little  of  the  hot  liquid  to  it,  and  then  pour  the  mixture 
into  the  rest.  Then  cook  it  a  short  time,  not  long,  as  a  sauce 
made  with  egg  sometimes  separates." 

"I'll  remember,"  said  Charlotte.  "You  do  have  such  good 
meals,  Bettina.  How  do  you  manage  it?  Sometimes  I  can 
think  of  the  best  things  to  cook,  and  other  days  I  don't  seem 
to  have  a  bit  of  imagination!" 

"I  plan  my  menu  all  out  a  week,  and  sometimes  two  weeks, 
ahead,"  said  Bettina.  "It  is  really  quite  a  complicated  process, 
as  I  want  to  have  a  variety,  as  well  as  inexpensive  things  that 
are  on  the  market.  Of  course,  I  may  change  my  plans  in 
many  details,  but  I  keep  to  the  general  outline.  Planning  the 
meals  seems  simple,  but  it  really  requires  a  lot  of  thinking 
sometimes.  Excuse  me  while  I  bring  in  the  dessert.  Bob,  will 
you  please  help  me  take  the  plates?" 

The  menu  that  night  consisted  of: 

242 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  243 

Sauted    Halibut   Steak  Bechamel    Sauce 

Potato  Cubes  Butter   Sauce 

Sliced  Cucumbers  and  Onions  with  Vinegar 

Rolls  Butter 

Prune  Whip  Whipped  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bechamel  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter      1/3  t-salt 
2  T-flour  Yz  t-paprika 

lYz  C-milk  I   egg-yolk 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  mix  well, 
and  gradually  add  the  milk.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  (Not  as 
thick  as  white  sauce  for  vegetables.)  Add  the  tgg  yolk. 
Serve  immediately. 

To  add  e^gg  yolk  to  the  hot  liquid,  beat  the  tgg  slightly,  add 
a  small  portion  of  the  hot  liquid  slowly  and  pour  it  all  into 
the  remainder  of  the  hot  liquid.  Cook  only  a  short  time,  as 
the  mixture  may  separate  if  cooked  longer. 

Potato  Cubes   (Four  portions) 

2  C-raw  potatoes  cut     ^  t-salt 

in  ^-inch  cubes  4  C-boiling  water 

Add  the  salt  to  the  boiling  water,  add  the  potatoes  and  boil 
till  tender.  (About  ten  minutes.)  Drain  and  shake  over  the 
fire  for  a  moment.     Add  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

Butter  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter  i  t-chopped  green  pepper 

I  T-chopped    parsley     ^  t-paprika 

Mix  together,  heat  and  add  to  the  potatoes. 

Prune  Whip  (Four  portions) 

1/3  lb.  prunes         i  T-lemon  juice 
3  egg-whites     J^  C-sugar 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  prunes,  then  soak  for  several  hours 
in  cold  water,  enough  to  cover.    Cook  slowly  until  soft,  about 


244     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

fifteen  minutes.  Rub  through  a  strainer.  Add  sugar  and 
lemon  juice  and  cook  five  minutes ;  the  mixture  should  be  the 
consistency  of  marmalade. 

Beat  the  whites  until  stiff,  add  the  prunes  when  cold,  pile 
lightly  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  slow  oven.     Serve  with  cream. 


CHAPTER   LXXV 
THE  WEDDING   INVITATIONS 

BOB  and  Bettina  had  scarcely  sat  down  to  dinner  one  crisp 
cold  evening,  when  they  heard  laughing  voices  at  the 
door.  "It  sounds  like  Alice,"  said  Bettina.  "What  can  she 
be  up  to  now  ?    And  Harry,  too  !" 

Bob  had  already  thrown  open  the  door,  and  there,  as  Bettina 
had  guessed,  were  Alice  and  Harry,  each  carrying  a  large  box. 

"We've  come  to  deliver  your  invitation  to  the  wedding,"  said 
Alice.  "It  may  be  unconventional,  but  it's  fun.  The  rest  we 
are  going  down  to  mail — that  is,  if  we  don't  get  frightened  at 
the  idea,  and  pitch  the  boxes  in  the  river  instead." 

"If  that's  the  way  you  feel,"  said  Harry  firmly,  "I'll  carry 
your  box  myself." 

"Please  don't,  Harry !  Just  think,  I  may  never  have  an- 
other opportunity  of  mailing  the  invitations  to  my  own  wed- 
ding, so  don't  deprive  me  of  the  privilege." 

"Stay  to  dinner  won't  you?"  said  Bettina.  "We  had  really 
planned  on  having  Uncle  John  and  Aunt  Mary  this  evening, 
but  they  didn't  come  to  town  after  all.  So  I  am  sure  we  have 
plenty,  even  to  apple  dumplings  for  dessert." 

"Harry  had  asked  me  to  take  dinner  with  him  down  town," 
said  Alice,  "by  way  of  celebrating  when  these  invitations  were 
mailed.  But  perhaps  we  might  stay  here  instead,  since  this 
was  the  very  place  in  which  we  met  first!  Harry,  I  believe 
sentiment  demands  that  we  accept  Bettina's  invitation." 

"I  must  broil  another  steak,"  said  Bettina,  "but  that  will 
take  only  a  few  minutes.     I'm  so  glad  you  can  stay." 

"But  we'll  have  to  leave  immediately  after  dinner,"  said 

245 


246     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Alice,  "for  these  invitations  simply  must  be  mailed  this  eve- 
ning." 

That  night  for  dinner,  Bettina  served: 

Beefsteak  Mashed  Potatoes 

Turnips 

Lettuce  Bettina's  Russian  Salad  Dressing 

Apple  Dumplings  and  Cream 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Turnips  (Four  portions) 

4  turnips         J4  t-salt 
I  T-butter      ^  t-pepper 

Wash,  pare  and  cut  the  turnips  in  small  pieces.  Cook  until 
transparent  and  tender.  Drain,  mash,  add  the  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  mix  thoroughly  and  return  to  the  fire  to  dry  out  the 
superfluous  water.  Serve  hot  with  vinegar.  (Never  cook 
turnips  until  brown.) 

Head  Lettuce  (Four  portions) 
I  head  lettuce 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  and  core  of  the  lettuce.  Clean 
thoroughly.  Place  very  wet  in  a  towel,  wrap  well  and  lay 
directly  on  the  ice.  Allow  to  stand  one  hour  before  serving  to 
allow  the  lettuce  to  get  very  cold  and  crisp. 

Bettina's  Russian  Dressing    (Four  portions) 

^  C-salad    dressing     2  T-chili  sauce 
I  T-chopped  green  pepper 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named.  Shake  thoroughly 
in  a  glass  jar.     Serve  cold. 

Apple  Dumplings   (Four  portions) 

1  C-flour  i/3  C-water 

2  t-baking    powder         4  apples 
^  t-salt  H  C-sugar 

2  T-lard  i   t-cinnamon 

Mix  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cut 
in  the  lard  with  a  knife,  and  then  add  the  water,  mixing  to  a 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  247 

soft  dough.  Roll  on  a  well-floured  board  to  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  in  thickness.  Wipe  and  pare  the  apples,  and  cut  them 
in  quarters. 

Cut  the  dough  in  four  square  pieces.  Place  four  quarters 
of  apple  in  the  center  of  each  piece  of  dough.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Moisten  the  edges  of  the  dough  with 
water.  Bring  the  four  corners  of  each  piece  up  around  the 
apple,  pressing  tightly  together.  Pierce  with  a  fork  to  allow 
the  escape  of  steam.  Place  each  dumpling  upside  down  on  a 
floured  tin,  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  warm  with  cream. 


CHAPTER  LXXVI 

HALLOWE'EN  PREPARATIONS 

^^^  INHERE  it  is  again!"  said  Bob  to  Ruth,  who  was  dining 
■*'      with  them.     "And  now  it's  gone!" 

"I  feel  the  same  old  Hallowe'en  thrill  that  I  used  to,  years 
ago,"  said  Bettina,  "when  I  turn  around  suddenly  and  see  a 
jack-o'-lantern  grinning  in  at  the  window !  Don't  you  love 
them?" 

"Those  are  the  Stewart  children,"  said  Bob.  "They're  just 
hoping  that  I'll  come  out  and  chase  them  away!  There's  no 
fun  for  them  in  having  us  like  it  too  well!  You  girls  ought 
to  give  at  least  an  imitation  of  a  shriek  apiece.  You  don't 
have  ladylike  nerves  at  all !" 

"Bob,  that  jack-o'-lantern  reminds  me  that  we  have  a  piece 
of  work  laid  out  for  you — making  the  jack-o'-lanterns  for  a 
Hallowe'en  party  we  have  planned.     Will  you  do  it?" 

"Will  I?"  said  Bob.  "Indeed  I  will!  I  haven't  made  one 
for  years  and  years !    Not  since  I  was  a  boy !" 

"Years  and  years  and  years  and  years !"  said  Ruth,  laugh- 
ing. "Well,  this  party  is  in  honor  of  Harry,  so  you  mustn't 
tell  him  anything  about  it — not  even  that  we're  giving  it.  And 
Bob,  I  believe  Fred  would  help  make  the  jack-o'-lanterns." 

"See  here,  Ruth,"  said  Bob,  "you  want  Fred  to  get  half  the 
credit  for  the  artistic  job  I'm  going  to  do.  Well,  for  your 
sake,  I  may  let  him  help  a  little,  but  I'm  bossing  the  work,  I 
can  tell  you.     Why,  I'm  particular." 

That  evening's  menu  consisted  of : 

248 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  24r9 

Breaded  Lamb   Chops  Baked  Potatoes 

Creamed  Peas 

Sliced  Tomatoes  Salad  Dressing 

Steamed  Date  Pudding  Lemon  Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops  (Four  portions) 

4  chops  H  C-bread  crumbs 

I  egg-yolk      J^  t-salt 
I  T-water        i  T-butter 

Wash  and  look  over  the  chops  carefully  to  remove  any 
particles  of  bone.  Beat  the  &gg  yolk  and  water.  Dip  each 
chop  into  the  tgg  mixture,  and  then  roll  in  the  crumbs,  to  which 
the  salt  has  been  added.  Place  in  a  buttered  pan,  dot  well 
with  butter,  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Steamed  Date  Pudding 

2/3  C-soft,  fresh  bread  crumbs      i  egg 

2/3  C-flour  2/3  C-dates,  chopped  fine 

2  t-baking  powder  y^  t-salt 

2/3  C-fine  chopped  suet  i  t-vanilla 

2/3  C-sugar  2/3  C-milk 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Stir  well  for 
two  minutes,  and  place  in  a  buttered  mould.  Steam  two  hours 
on  the  stove  or  in  the  fireless  cooker.  Serve  hot  with  lemon 
sauce. 

Lemon  Sauce 

J^  C-sugar  2  T-lemon  juice 

I  T-flour        H  t-salt 
I  C-water         i  t-butter 

Mix  well  the  flour,  sugar  and  salt,  add  the  water  and  cook 
for  one  minute.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  butter.  Beat  vigor- 
ously, and  serve  with  the  date  pudding. 


CHAPTER   LXXVII 

HALLOWE'EN   REVELS 

"Come,  on  mystic  Hallowe'en, 
Let  us  seek  the  dreadful  scene, 
Where  the  witches,  imps  and  devils, 
Elves  and  ghosts  will  hold  their  revels! 
1 107  Carberry  Avenue. 
Seven  o'clock." 

THIS  was  the  invitation  received  by  Harry,  Alice,  Fred 
and  even  Bob,  who  had  an  inkling  of  what  was  about  to 
happen,  inasmuch  as  1107  Carberry  Avenue  happened  to  be  his 
own  address.  At  seven  o'clock  that  evening  Bob  was  no- 
where to  be  found.  However,  when  four  horribly  disguised 
figures  were  ushered  into  the  house,  the  witch  who  pointed 
the  way  up  the  stairs  seemed  satisfied.  A  few  minutes  later, 
the  ghosts  and  demons  having  removed  such  garments  as  were 
needed  only  in  the  outer  air,  assembled  in  the  weirdly  lighted 
living-room.  All  of  the  electric  lights  were  covered  with  yel- 
low crepe  paper  shades,  with  faces  cut  in  them.  Jack-o'- 
lanterns  stood  in  every  conceivable  place,  and  a  fire  burned 
brightly  in  the  open  fireplace. 

The  two  witches,  who  were  evidently  the  hostesses,  com- 
menced a  weird  chant  in  a  minor  key.  The  male  ghosts,  three 
in  number,  immediately  took  up  the  music,  if  it  could  be  so 
called,  howling  in  loud  and  uncanny  tones.  Thereupon  the 
witches  beckoned  the  whole  company  with  all  speed  to  the 
dining-room. 

The  table  was  a  mass  of  color  and  light.  Potatoes,  carrots 
and  beets,  with  sticks  for  legs,  held  the  lighted  candles.  At 
each  place  were  individual  favors,  witches  holding  the  place 
cards,  and  small  Jack-o'-lanterns  standing  beside  them.     The 

250 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  251 

center  of  the  table  was  a  miniature  field  of  pumpkins  and  corn- 
stalks. 

The  place  cards  were  read  and  the  places  were  found.  The 
guest  of  honor,  he  who  sat  at  the  right  of  her  who  was  evi- 
dently "witch-in-charge,"  discovered  the  following  on  his  card, 
and  the  others  were  equally  descriptive  and  illuminating: 

This  place  is  laid  for  one  who  soon 

Will  marry! 
O  youth  bewitched  by  maid  and  moon, 

Be  wary ! 
But  if  you  can't,  then  make  it  soon, 

Dear  Harry! 

The  supper,  decorative  as  well  as  delicious,  was  all  upon  the 
table.  Little  individual  pumpkin  pies  on  paper  doilies  stood 
beside  each  place.  The  salad  caused  much  delight  among  the 
guests,  who  at  the  invitation  of  the  witches,  had  now  removed 
their  masks.  A  large  red  apple  with  a  face  cut  on  the  outside, 
had  been  hollowed  out,  and  the  salad  was  within.  On  the  top 
of  the  apple  was  a  round  wafer  with  a  marshmallow  upon  it 
to  represent  a  hat.  The  hat  was  further  decorated  with  a 
"stick-up"  of  stick  candy  on  one  side.  The  apple  stood  on  a 
leaf  of  lettuce,  with  a  yellow  salad  dressing  necktie.  The 
favor  boxes,  which  were  under  the  witches,  were  filled  with 
candy  corn,  while  the  popcorn  balls,  placed  on  a  platter,  had 
features  of  chocolate  fudge,  and  bonnets  of  frilled  paper. 

The  supper  menu  was  as  follows : 


ter  Patties 

Bettina's   Surprise   Salad 

Hallowe'en 

Sandwiches                      Pickles 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Cider 

Doughnuts 

Jumbles 

Popcorn  Balls 

"Have  ano'^her  jumble,  Harry,"  urged  Ruth.  "See,  this  one 
has  unusual  eyes  and  a  particularly  soulful  expression." 

"I  have  already  eaten  so  many  that  I  fear  my  memory  of  this 
party  will  be  a  jumble  of  faces !  I'll  see  them  in  my  sleep — 
all  with  that  soulful  expression !" 

"Another    toasted    marshmallow,    Bettina?"    asked    Fred, 


252     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

thrusting  it  toward  her  on  the  end  of  a  hat-pin.  "This  candle 
is  nearly  burned  out,  so  I'm  afraid  I  can't  offer  you  any 
more." 

"It  is  really  time  to  bob  for  apples,"  said  Bettina.  "Who 
ever  heard  of  a  Hallowe'en  party  without  that !  And  we  must 
each  try  to  bite  the  swinging  doughnut,  and  then  we  must  blind- 
fold each  other  and  try  to  pin  the  tail  on  the  unfortunate  black 
cat.  Bob,  will  you  carry  this  tub  into  the  living-room?  And 
Ruth,  will  you  remove  the  popcorn  balls  to  the  piano  bench? 
Perhaps  someone  will  grow  hungry  from  the  exertion  of  these 
games.  And  I  know  that  later  in  the  evening  Alice,  though  a 
guest,  will  tell  our  fortunes." 

"Alice  can  tell  my  fortune  by  looking  at  her  own  hand,"  said 
Harry.    "Because  she  holds  my  happiness  there." 

"What  a  sentimental  sentence,  Harry !"  said  Fred,  looking 
amazed.     "See,  you've  embarrassed  us  all!" 

"Well,  I'm  always  being  called  cold  and  reserved,  and  Fve 
decided  to  turn  over  a  new  leaf." 

"Oh,  Harry,  don't  be  so  foolish !"  said  Alice,  who  had  grown 
as  red  as  the  apples  on  the  table.    "It's  time  for  games !" 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 

Oyster  Patties   (Six  portions) 

3  T-butter      ^  t-salt 

4  T-flour        y^  t-paprika 

I  C-milk         H  pint  of  oysters 

Clean  the  oysters  by  removing  any  shells,  and  drain  oflF  the 
liquor.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Gradually  add  the  milk,  stirring  Constantly.  Cook 
until  very  thick.  Place  the  oysters  in  a  pan  and  heat  one  min- 
ute. This  "plumps"  them.  Do  not  cook  too  long.  Add  the 
oysters  to  the  white  sauce,  and  serve  immediately  in  patty 
shells  which  have  been  freshened  in  a  hot  oven. 

Bettina's  Surprise  Salad    (Six  portions) 

6  apples  ^  C-sliced  diced  pineapple 

I  green  pepper,  chopped  fine      2  T-chopped  nut  meats 

H  C-diced  celery  i  C-salad  dressing 

J4  C-seeded  white  grapes  |^  t-salt 

Yz  C-diced    marshmallows 


IVith  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  253 

Remove  ixio  iiisicles  of  the  apples,  add  the  green  pepper, 
celery,  grapes,  marshmallows,  pineapple,  nut-meats  and  salt, 
mixed  thoroughly  with  the  salad  dressing.    Serve  very  cold. 

To  Make  the  Hallowe'en  Sandwiches 

When  the  bread  is  a  day  old,  cut  in  slices  one-third  inch 
thick.  Match  in  pairs.  Cream  the  butter  and  spread  one  side. 
Place  the  other  side  on  top.  Press  firmly.  With  a  thimble  cut 
out  circles  on  one  piece  of  the  bread,  cut  nose  and  mouth  with 
a  knife.  The  butter  showing  through  gives  the  resemblance 
to  features. 

Pumpkin  Pie  (Eight  pies) 

Crusts 

1  C-flour  3  T-water 

5  T-lard  y.  t-salt 

Cut  the  lard  into  the  flour  and  salt.  Add  sufficient  water 
to  make  a  stiff  dough  on  a  floured  board.  Roll  into  shape  one- 
fourth  inch  thick.  Place  in  tin  muffin  pans  making  individual 
pies,  filling  with  the  following  mixture  and  baking  30  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Pumpkin  Filling 

i^  C-canned   pumpkin     J^  t-ginger 
2/3  C-brown  sugar  ^  t-salt 

I  t-cinnamon  2  eggs 

2  C-milk 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  and  fill  the  pie-crusts 
two-thirds  full. 

Jumbles  (Twenty-four  jumbles) 

J^  C-butter  ^  C-sour  milk 

I   C-sugar  l4  t-salt 
I  egg  About  2  C-flour 

^2  t-soda  Grape  jelly. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  gradually  add  the  egg, 
the  soda  mixed  with  the  sour  milk,  the  salt,  and  the  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  (One  which  will  roll  easily.)  Cut  into 
shape  with  a  round  cooky  cutter.  On  the  centers  of  one-half 
the  pieces,  place  a  spoonful  of  grape  jelly.  Make  features  on 
the  rest,  using  a  thimble  to  cut  out  the  eyes.  Press  the  two 
together,  and  bake  12  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


NOVEMBER. 

Cosy  fire  a-burning  hright,- 
Cosy  tables  robed  in  white - 


Dainty  dishes  smoking  hot, 

Home!    And  cold  and  snow  forgot! 


,mmmmxmwm 


CHAPTER  LXXVIII 
A  FORETASTE  OF  WINTER 


t^O  AY,  but  it's  cold  today!" 
^  called  Bob  at  the  door. 
"Frost  tonight  all  right!  I  was 
glad  I  took  my  overcoat  this 
morning.  Have  you  had  a  fire 
all  day?" 

"Yes,  indeed,"  said  Bettina, 
"and  I've  spent  most  of  the  af- 
ternoon cleaning  my  furs  with 
corn  meal,  and  fixing  those  new 
comforters  for  the  sleeping 
porch,  and  putting  away  some  of  the  summer  clothing." 

"I  believe  we  will  need  those  new  comforters  tonight.  How 
were  you  fixing  them?" 

"I  was  basting  a  white  cheese-cloth  edge,  about  twelve  inches 
wide,  along  the  width  that  goes  at  the  head  of  the  bed,  you 
know.  It's  so  easy  to  rip  off  and  wash,  and  I  like  to  have  all 
the  comforters  fixed  that  way.  I  was  cleaning  my  old  furs, 
too,  to  cut  them  up.  I'm  planning  to  have  a  fur  edge  on  my 
suit  this  winter.  I  don't  believe  you'll  know  the  furs,  the 
suit,  or  Bettina  when  you  see  the  combmation  we  will  make  to- 
gether !    Fur  is  the  thing  this  year,  you  know." 

"Couldn't  you  spare  me  a  little  to  transform  my  overcoat? 
I'd  like  to  look  different,  too !" 

"Silly !  Come  along  to  the  kitchen !  There's  beefsteak  to- 
night (won't  it  taste  good?)  and  I  want  you  to  cook  it,  while 
I'm  getting  the  other  things  on  the  table.  I  didn't  expect  you 
quite  so  soon." 

255 


256    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband  ] 

That  night  for  dinner  they  had : 

Beefsteak                                       Creamed   Potatoes  I 

Devilled  Tomatoes  ■! 

Rolls                                                     Butter  1 

Plum  Sauce  ] 

Bettina's  Drop  Cookies  \ 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES  | 

(All  measurements  are  level)  \ 
Creamed  Potatoes  (Two  portions) 

I  C-dlced  cooked  potatoes                i  T-flqur  ^ 

I  T-green  pepper,  chopped  fine     ^  C-milk  \ 

I  T-butter                                           Ya  t-salt  . 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  mix  well,  and  add  the  ; 

milk  slowly.     Cook  until  creamy,  and  add  the  potatoes  and  \ 

the  chopped  green  pepper.    Serve  very  hot.  \ 

Devilled  Tomatoes  (Two  portions) 

2  tomatoes     H  t-mustard  \ 

2  T-flour        Ys  t-salt  ' 

I  T-lard               A  pinch  of  paprika  \ 

%  t-salt              I  hard-cooked  egg  3 

I  T-butter      H  t-flour  i 

I  T-sugar        2  T-vinegar  ■ 
I  T-water 

Pee!  the  tomatoes,  cut  in  half  and  sprinkle  with  flour.    Place 
the  lard  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot,  add  the  tomatoes. 

Brown  nicely  on  both  sides,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.     When  \ 

brown,  place  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  over  them  the  follow-  \ 
ing  sauce:  Sauce — Place  the  butter  in  a  pan,  add  the  sugar, 

mustard,  salt  and  paprika,  the  egg  cut  fine,  and  the  flour.    Mix  ' 

well,  add  the  vinegar  and  water.    Heat,  allow  to  boil  one  min-  ] 

ute,  and  then  pour  over  the  tomatoes.    (If  the  sauce  seems  too  \ 

thick  when  it  has  boiled  one  minute,  add  a  little  more  water.)  ] 

Drop  Cookies  (Twenty-four  cookies)  j 

i/3  C-butter  Ya  t-salt 

I  C-sugar  I  t-vanilla 

I  egg  Ya  C-chopped  raisins 

Y2  C-sour  milk        2Y2  C-flour 
H  t-soda  Y2  t-baking  powder 


_J 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  257 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  whole  egg.  Mix 
well.  Add  the  sour  milk  and  the  vanilla.  Mix  the  baking 
powder,  soda  and  flour  well,  add  the  raisins  and  add  to  the 
first  mixture.  Beat  well.  Drop  from  a  spoon  onto  a  buttered 
and  floured  pan,  leaving  three  inches  between  the  cookies. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER  LXXIX 

SURPRISING  ALICE  AND  HARRY 

^^TTrE  knew  you'd  be  here,  and  we've  come  to  surprise 
▼  ^  you !"  shouted  Bob,  Fred,  Bettina  and  Ruth,  as  they 
opened  the  door  of  the  new  apartment  which  was  to  be  the 
home  of  Harry  and  AHce.  "We've  brought  the  party  with 
us !"  and  they  held  out  several  bulging  baskets. 

"Welcome !"  smiled  Alice,  delightedly,  as  she  stepped  down 
from  the  box  on  which  she  was  standing  to  hang  a  soft,  silky 
curtain.  Harry,  tall  and  silent,  rose,  hammer  in  hand  from 
the  crate  he  was  opening,  and  welcomed  each  one  in  turn. 

"Bob  and  I  came  to  be  chaperones  if  you  needed  us,"  said 
Bettina,  putting  on  a  prim  and  disapproving  look,  as  different 
as  possible  from  her  usual  happy  expression. 

"Oh,  my  dear !"  exclaimed  Alice's  mother,  in  a  shocked  tone. 
"Surely  you  didn't  imagine — but  then,  of  course  you  didn't — 
because  you  would  naturally  know  that  I  would  be  here." 

Alice  laughed  her  ringing  laugh.  "Mother  is  too  literal  for 
any  use,  Bettina!"  And  Alice's  absent-minded  father  looked 
up  from  the  newspaper  he  was  reading  to  ask  what  the  joke 
was. 

"The  joke,  Father  dear,"  said  Alice,  "is  that  your  foolish 
daughter  should  be  about  to  marry  this  solemn  and  serious 
youth!"  And  she  turned  Harry  around  by  the  shoulders  till 
he  faced  her  father.  "But  perhaps  you  hadn't  heard  about  the 
wedding,  Father.    Now  don't  tell  me  you  had  forgotten  !'* 

"Forgotten?  Forgotten  your  wedding,  Alice?"  said  her 
mother,  astonished.  "Of  course  your  father  hasn't  forgotten. 
Why,  only  yesterday  he  was  saying  that  the  cost  of  a  trousseau 

258 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  259 

apparently  hadn't  lessened  sincj  Lillian  was  married.  Weren't 
you,  Father?     It  was  when  your  new  green  corduroy  came 

home,  Alice,  and  I  was  saying "  but  Alice  had  led  the  girls 

off  to  show  them  over  the  apartment. 

Father  had  retired  behind  his  newspaper  and  Harry  was 
showing  Fred  and  Bob  his  own  private  den  whither  he  might 
retire  from  the  worries  of  domestic  life.  **Only,"  observed 
Fred  sagaciously,  "since  it  opens  off  the  living  room,  you  can't 
retire  very  far.  I  predict  that  married  life  will  make  you 
rather  a  sociable  person,  Harry." 

Harry  shrugged  his  shoulders,  and  said  nothing.  "Old 
bear!"  cried  Alice,  entering  the  room  at  this  point.  "You 
don't  need  to  be  a  sociable  person !  I  like  you  just  as  you  are !" 
And  she  turned  to  the  others.  "Come  to  the  party,  please.  It's 
all  in  the  kitchen !  We've  made  coffee,  too,  and  everything  is 
bee-youtiful !    I  love  surprises  !" 

The  "party"  consisted  of : 

Apples  Popcorn  Balls 

Nut  Cookies 

Maple  Fudge  Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Popcorn   Balls    (Eight   balls) 

}i  C-light  brown  or  "C"  sugar       2  T-butter 
}i  C-white  sugar  J4  t-soda 

yz  C-molasses  2  qts.    freshly    popped    corn 

Yz  C-water  2  t-salt 

I  T-vinegar 

Place  in  a  sauce  pan,  the  sugar,  molasses,  water,  vinegar  and 
butter.  Cook  without  stirring  until  the  candy  forms  a  hard 
ball  which  clicks  against  the  side  of  the  glass  when  dropped 
into  cold  water.  Add  the  soda,  stir  well  and  pour  over  the 
corn,  which  has  been  salted  and  placed  in  a  large  pan.  Mix 
the  syrup  thoroughly  with  the  corn,  and  when  partially  cool, 
moisten  the  hands  and  press  the  corn  into  balls  of  uniform 
size.    Popcorn  balls  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place. 


260    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Nut  Cookies  (Three  dozen  cookies) 

1/3  C-butter  and  lard  mixed  1/3  C-chopped    nut-meats 

2/3  C-"C"  sugar  (preferably  black  walnuts) 

1  c^^^  I  t-powdered  cinnamon 
4  T-milk  yi  t-powdered  cloves 

2  C-flour  y^  t-mace 

2  t-baking  powder  54  t-nutmeg 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add  the 
^gg  and  milk  and  then  the  flour,  nuts,  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace, 
nutmeg  and  baking  powder.  Place  the  dough  on  a  floured 
board.  Roll  it  out  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a 
cooky  cutter.  Place  on  a  well-buttered  and  floured  baking 
sheet.    Bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Maple  Fudge  (Eight  portions) 

y^  lb.  maple  sugar  J4  t-cream    of   tartar 

2  C-granulated  sugar       2  T-butter 
2/3  C-milk 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named.  Cook  until  the 
candy  forms  a  soft  ball  when  a  little  is  dropped  in  a  glass  of 
cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool.  When  cool, 
beat  until  it  becomes  creamy.    Pour  into  a  buttered  plate. 


CHAPTER  LXXX 
A  DINNER  FOR  THE  BRIDAL  PARTY 

THE  bridal  dinner,  given  for  the  wedding  party  by  Alice's 
parents,  was  truly  an  elaborate  affair.  As  the  young 
people,  who  knew  each  other  so  well,  and  had  spent  so  many 
merry  hours  together,  glanced  across  the  softly  lighted  table,  a 
little  feeling  of  shyness  and  constraint  came  over  them  because 
of  the  formality  of  the  occasion.  Even  Alice,  usually  the  ring- 
leader in  all  their  fun,  was  a  little  silent. 

''Shucks !"  thought  boyish  Fred.  "None  of  this  in  mine ! 
I'd  elope  first !    Wonder  if  Harry  likes  it !     (Bet  he  doesn't.)" 

Ruth  was  thinking,  "Oh,  how  lovely !  How  perfectly 
lovely !     I  believe  after  all — as  a  time  to  remember  through 

all  the  years "    But  Fred  could  not  read  her  thoughts,  and 

saw  only  the  particularly  happy  smile  that  she  gave  him. 

"How  do  you  like  the  nut  cups?"  Alice  asked.  "Bettina 
made  these  yellow  'mum'  nut  cups  as  a  Christmas  gift  to  me, 
and  gave  them  to  me  now  for  this  dinner!  See,  they  just 
match  the  real  chrysanthemums !  I'm  sure  I  don't  know 
which  I  like  best !" 

The  girls  exclaimed  so  heartily  over  the  nut  cups  that  Bet- 
tina declared  to  herself  that  she  would  make  sets  for  each 
of  them,  of  different  colors  and  kinds.  These  of  Alice's  were 
really  charming.  Their  wire  handles  were  wound  with  green 
maline  and  tied  with  a  green  bow.  They  were  filled  with  pe- 
cans, and  pink  and  yellow  bon-bons,  which  were  grapes  cov- 
ered with  colored  creams. 

The  place  cards  were  tied  with  narrow  green  ribbon  to  little 
china  slippers,  cupids,  doves  and  hearts.     Besides  the  yellow 

261 


262     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

chrysanthemums,  which  were  the  table  decorations,  there  was 
for  each  of  the  girls  a  corsage  bouquet  of  pink  roses,  and  for 
each  of  the  men  a  boutonniere  of  pink  rosebuds  in  a  tinfoil 
case.  Flower  pins  were  tucked  in  the  maline  bows  of  the 
bouquets  as  favors  for  the  girls,  while  scarf  pins  were  favors 
for  the  men. 

When  the  dinner  was  over,  and  the  guests  were  passing  into 
the  living  room  for  dancing  and  music,  Alice  slipped  her  arm 
through  Bettina's.  "The  dinner  was  lovely;  wasn't  it?"  she 
said.  "I  did  think  I  was  too  tired  to  enjoy  it,  but  my  heart  is 
as  light  as  a  feather  now !  I  am  going  to  dance  all  evening  till 
my  last  guest  goes  !" 

The  menu  was  as  follows: 

Grapefruit   Cocktail 

Cream  of  Asparagus   Soup  Croutons 

Sauted  Halibut  Potato  Rosettes 

Cabbage   Relish  in   Green   Pepper   Cases 

Peas  in  Timbale  Cases 

Celery 

Hot  Rolls  Currant  Jelly 

Vegetable  Salad  Cheese  Wafers 

Brick  Ice  Cream  Individual  Cakes 

Coffee 

Pecans  Bon-Bons 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

RECIPES  OF  THE  BRIDAL  DINNER 

Grapefruit   Cocktail    (Twelve   portions) 

6  grapefruit     12  T-powdered  sugar 
12  cherries 

Cut  the  grapefruit  in  halves  crosswise.  Half  a  grapefruit 
is  one  service.  Remove  all  the  seeds.  Insert  a  sharp-pointed 
knife  between  the  outside  skin  or  shell  and  the  pulp,  and  cut 
out  around  the  inside.  Cut  the  skin  away  from  each  section 
of  the  pulp.  Insert  the  knife  under  the  core  and  cut  free  from 
the  shell,  lift  out  the  core  and  membranes  in  one  piece,  leaving 
the  pulp.  Sprinkle  each  grapefruit  half  with  one  tablespoon 
of  powdered  sugar.    Garnish  with  a  maraschino  cherry  in  the 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  265 

center  and  a  mint  leaf  on  each  side.     Serve  very  cold  on  a 
paper  doily  with  some  green  rose  leaves  under  the  grapefruit. 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup  (Twelve  portions) 

4  C-strained  asparagus  pulp       9  T-flour 

5  C-milk  2  t-salt 

7  T-butter  %  t-paprika 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  well, 
and  gradually  add  the  milk  and  asparagus.  Cook  until  slightly 
thick.     (About  two  minutes.)     Serve  hot. 

Croutons   (Twelve  portions) 

8  slices  of  bread     2  T-butter 

Cut  the  bread  into  one-third  inch  cubes,  add  the  butter 
melted,  and  salt.  Mix  well  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven, 
stirring  occasionally  to  permit  the  bread  to  brown  evenly. 


CHAPTER  LXXXI 
REHEARSING  THE  CEREMONY 

ALICE'S  wedding  day  dawned  clear  and  cold,  and  Bet- 
tina  realized  with  a  start  all  that  was  before  her.  She 
had  as  house  guests  two  school  friends  of  Alice's,  gay  and 
charming  girls  who  were,  nevertheless,  somewhat  difficult  visi- 
tors, as  the  little  bungalow  was  soon  strewn  with  their  belong- 
ings and  as  they  were  completely  indifferent  to  such  a  thing  as 
punctuality. 

"S'pose  Geraldine'll  be  in  to  borrow  my  mirror  in  a  minute," 
grumbled  Bob.     "How  long'U  they  stay?" 

"  'Till  tomorrow  morning,  dear.  Hurry !  You  know  we 
have  to  rehearse  at  ten  o'clock." 

"Ushers  and  all?" 

"Of  course.  You  wouldn't  know  what  to  do  without  a  re- 
hearsal, would  you  ?" 

"I  suppose  not.  But  what  if  I  can't  get  away  from  the 
office?" 

"You'll  have  to.  Bob,  for  Harry's  sake.  Surely  you  can 
manage  it  for  once." 

Bob  went  on  grumbling  about  the  foolishness  of  "these 
fancy  weddings"  until  Bettina  consoled  him  with  the  promise 
of  waffles  for  breakfast. 

"And  we'll  simply  have  to  call  Geraldine  and  Lenore,"  said 
she.  "They  are  going  to  the  rehearsal  with  me,  and  I  must 
have  my  morning's  work  done  before  we  start.  You  see  I 
shall  have  them  here  for  luncheon,  and  we  won't  be  back  'till 
noon." 

Bettina,  with  some  effort,  managed  to  reach  the  church  with 

264 


With  Bettinas  Best  icecipes  265 

her  guests  shortly  after  ten  o'clock.  The  nervous  and  excited 
wedding  party  stood  about  in  chattering  groups,  and  when 
summoned,  went  through  their  parts  with  many  mistakes  and 
giggles. 

"How  can  it  ever  seem  beautiful  and  solemn,"  thought  Bet- 
tina  in  despair,  "when  we  all  do  it  so  stupidly  ?  I'm  afraid  we 
are  going  to  spoil  the  wedding!" 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

MOKE  BRIDAL  DINNER  RECIPES 

SautM  Halibut  (Twelve  portions) 

21^  lb.  halibut  steak    4  T-egg-yolks 
%  t-pcpper  I  T-water 

I  t-salt  ^        iH  C-cracker  crumbs 

I  T-Iemon  juice        4  T-fat 
j^  t-onion  juice  2  T-melted  butter 

Mix  the  pepper,  lemon  juice,  onion  juice,  salt,  butter,  egg  and 
water.  Wipe  the  halibut  with  a  damp  cloth  and  then  cut  into 
strips  two  and  a  half  by  four  inches.  Dip  each  strip  into 
the  above  mixture  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Place  the  fat 
in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot  add  the  halibut.  Brown  thor- 
oughly on  each  side  and  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 

Potato  Rosettes  (Twelve  portions) 

3  C-mashed  potatoes       i  t-salt 
3  T-milk  14  t-paprlka 

2  T-butter 

Mix  potatoes,  milk,  salt,  paprika  and  butter.  Beat  one  min- 
ute. Place  the  hot  potato  mixture  in  a  pastry  bag  and  press 
rosettes  on  a  flat  buttered  tin  pan  three  inches  apart.  Set  in 
a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes  to  brown.  Remove  from  the 
pan  with  a  spatula. 

Cabbage  Relish  in  Green  Pepper  Cases  (Twelve  portions) 

12  green  peppers  2/3  C-vinegar 

3  C-finely   chopped   cabbage         2  T-"C"  sugar 
3  T-pimento,  cut  fine  i  t-salt 

I  green  pepper,  cut  fine  i  t-mustard 

I  T-oHve  oil 


266     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband  \ 

Mix  the  mustard,  oil,  salt,  sugar  and  vinegar.      Add  the  , 

green  pepper,  pimento  and  cabbage.     Fill  the  peppers  with  j 
this  mixture.     The  peppers  are  prepared  by  cutting  off  the 

stem  end,  removing  the  seeds  and  washing  thoroughly.  | 

Glazed   Sweet   Potatoes    (Twelve   portions)  -i 

6  sweet  potatoes         3^  C-water 

I  C-brown  sugar           3  T-butter  1 

Wash,  pare  and  boil  the  sweet  potatoes.     When  tender,  ] 

drain,  cut  in  lengthwise  slices  one-half  inch  thick,  and  lay  in  \ 
a  buttered  pan.     Cover  with  a  syrup  made  by  cooking  the 

brown  sugar,  water  and  butter  for  two  minutes.     Baste  fre-  l 

quently.    Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  ! 


CHAPTER  LXXXII 
AFTER  THE  WEDDING 

THE  stately  wedding  ceremony  had  taken  place  in  the  big 
church,  and  Bettina,  climbing  into  the  automobile  for 
the  drive  to  the  reception,  had,  for  all  her  own  part  in  the 
afi'air,  only  a  confused  memory  of  music,  lights  and  faces,  soft 
lavender  and  soft  pink,  and  Alice  and  Harry  murmuring  their 
vows. 

"Wasn't  it  lovely,  Bob  ?    Wasn't  it  stately  and  impressive  ?'* 

"Say,  aren't  you  cold  ?"  was  his  prosy  reply.  "That  church 
was  too  warm ;  take  my  coat !" 

"No,  indeed;  I  don't  need  it!  Oh,  wasn't  it  a  beautiful 
wedding!  Did  Lillian  and  I  walk  slowly  enough?'*  And  she 
chattered  on  about  all  of  the  details  until  the  house  was 
reached. 

The  bride  and  groom  were  already  there,  and  gay  con- 
gratulations followed  from  the  many  guests.  The  dining- 
room,  where  the  dainty  wedding  supper  was  served,  was  elab- 
orate with  palms  and  high  baskets  of  roses.  Tables  about  the 
room  held  six,  and  in  the  center,  a  large  round  table,  deco- 
rated with  a  broad,  low  mound  of  violets  and  roses,  was  ar- 
ranged for  the  bridal  party.  Here  also  was  the  bride's  cake, 
and  the  small  boxes  of  wedding  cake  which  the  guests  re- 
ceived upon  leaving  the  room. 

When  Alice  cut  the  bride's  cake,  the  thimble  fell  to  Ruth, 
which  occasioned  much  merriment,  while  the  dime  was  dis- 
covered by  Harry  in  his  own  piece.  The  ring  went  to  Mary, 
who  emphatically  denied  that  the  omen  spoke  truly.     But 

267 


268    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

when  Mary  also  caught  Alice's  bouquet  of  lilies-of-the-valley, 
the  young  people  refused  to  listen  to  her  protests. 

"Dear  Alice,"  said  Bettina,  as  she  helped  the  bride  into  her 
traveling  suit,  "may  your  whole  life  be  as  beautiful  as  your 
wedding !" 

The  wedding  supper  consisted  of : 

Chicken  and  Mushroom  Patties  Fruit  Jelly 

Hot  Rolls 

Olives  Pickles 

Ice  Cream  in   Individual  Slipper  Moulds 

Violet  Decorated  Cake  Salted  Pecans 

Fancy  Candy  in  Tiny  Baskets 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
THE  WEDDING  RECIPES 

Chicken  and  Mushroom  Filling  for  Patty  Shells  (Fifteen  portions) 

2  C-cooked  chicken,  diced  54  t-paprika 
I  C-button  mushrooms,  diced  2/;^  C-flour 

3  T-pimentoes,  cut  fine  2/3  C-chicken  fat 
I  t-salt  3  C-milk 

Melt  the  fat,  add  the  flour  and  salt ;  mix  thoroughly.  Add 
one-half  a  cup  of  milk.  Cook  until  thick,  remove  from  the 
fire  and  heat  one  minute.  Add  one  cup  of  milk  and  reheat. 
When  it  thickens,  beat  vigorously  until  creamy.  Add  the  rest 
of  the  milk,  and  cook  until  thicker  than  vegetable  white  sauce. 
Add  the  chicken,  mushrooms  and  pimentoes.  Serve  hot  in 
patty  cases. 

To  prepare  the  cases  for  serving,  heat  until  hot  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

To  obtain  the  chicken  fat,  cook  a  fat  chicken  slowly  for  a 
long  time.  Remove  the  chicken  from  the  stock  and  allow  the 
stock  to  cool.  The  fat  will  rise  to  the  top.  Use  this  instead  of 
butter.    It  has  a  better  flavor  and  is  cheaper. 

Fruit  Jelly   (Fifteen  portions) 

4  T-granulated   gelatin  2  C-sugar 

2/3  C-cold  water  i  C-white  grapes,  seeded 

4  C-boiling  water  y2  C-diced  pineapple 

2/3  C-lemon  juice  H  C-maraschino  cherries,  halved 


With  Bettinas  Best  Kecipes  269 

Soak  the  gelatin  twenty  minutes  in  the  cold  water,  and  dis- 
solve in  the  boiling  water,  stirring  till  all  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved. Strain  through  a  moistened  cheese-cloth  and  add  the 
sugar  and  the  lemon  juice.  Place  in  moistened  individual 
moulds  or  one  large  pan.  When  the  mixture  is  slightly  thick 
and  cool,  add  the  fruit,  well-mixed.  Set  in  a  cold  place  for  one 
hour.    Cut  in  squares  when  desired  for  use. 


CHAPTER   LXXXIII 
A  "HAPPEN-IN"  LUNCHEON 

BETTINA  had  finished  her  morning's  work  and  was  busy 
with  her  mending  when  the  telephone  rang. 

"Why,  hello,  Bob!"  she  answered,  surprised  to  hear  his 
voice  at  this  time  of  day. 

"Bettina,"  said  he,  "could  you  possibly  arrange  to  let  me 
bring  Carl  Edwards  and  his  wife  home  to  luncheon?  They 
blew  in  a  few  minutes  ago  and  leave  at  two-thirty.  We  haven't 
much  time,  you  see,  and  they  are  especially  anxious  to  see  the 
house.    They  are  planning  to  build  for  themselves  soon." 

"Why,  of  course.  Bob,"  said  Bettina,  hesitating  for  the  brief- 
est possible  second.  "It's  after  eleven  now,  but  I'll  be  glad  to 
have  you  bring  them.  Let's  see — I'll  give  them  the  salad  I 
had  planned  for  tonight,  but  I  don't  know  what  else — but,  then, 
I'll  manage  somehow.'* 

"All  right,  dear;  that's  fine.  We'll  be  there  early — a  little 
after  twelve." 

Bettina's  "emergency  shelf"  was  always  well  stocked,  and 
before  her  conversation  with  Bob  was  over  her  mind  had 
hastily  reviewed  its  contents.  Ii?  a  very  short  time,  her  oven 
held  escalloped  salmon,  graham  gems  and  "quick  pudding," 
and  she  was  setting  the  dainty  porch  table.  "I'm  glad  the 
weather  is  so  beautiful,"  she  said  to  herself,  "for  it  is  so  much 
fun  to  have  a  hurry-up  luncheon  like  this  out-of-doors.  Well, 
whatever  the  guests  think,  I'm  sure  that  Bob  will  like  my 
menu,  for  "quick  pudding"  is  a  favpfite  dessert  of  his,  and 
he  can  always  eat  several  graham  gems  1" 

For  luncheon  they  had : 

270 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  271 

Escalloped  Salmon  Graham  Gems 

Apricot  Sauce 

Bettina's  Vegetable  Salad 

Chocolate  Marshmallows 

Bettina's  "Quick  Pudding" 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Escalloped  Salmon  (Four  portions) 

Xj^  C-salmon  %.  t-paprika 

3  T-sweet  pickles,  chopped  fine  J^  t-salt 

I  T-Iemon  juice  ^  C-milk 

H  C-cracker  crumbs  2  T-fresh  bread  crumbs 
I  egg  I  T-melted  butter 

Pick  the  salmon  apart  with  a  fork  and  add  the  pickles, 
lemon  juice,  cracker  crumbs,  tgg,  paprika,  salt  and  milk,  using 
a  fork  for  mixing.  Place  in  a  well-buttered  baking  dish. 
Melt  the  butter,  add  the  fresh  crumbs  and  spread  evenly  over 
the  top.    Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Graham  Gems  (Ten  gems) 

I  C-graham  flour         %.   C-sugar 

I  C-white  flour  ^  t-soda 

I  t-salt  %  C-sour  milk 

Mix  the  graham  and  white  flour,  the  salt,  sugar  and  soda, 
add  the  milk  and  tgg.  Beat  two  minutes.  Fill  well-buttered 
muffin  pans  one-half  full.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

Apricot  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

%  lb.    dried   apricots     2  C-water 
y2  C-sugar 

Wash  the  dried  apricots  well.  Add  the  water  and  allow  them 
to  soak  for  three  hours  or  longer.  Cook  very  slowly  in  the 
same  water  until  tender.  -\dd  the  sugar,  and  cook  three 
minutes 

Bettina's  Vegetable   Salad    (Four  portions) 

54  C-cooked  peas  i  T-chopped  onion 

^  C-diced  celery  2  hard-cooked    eggs,    diced 

54  C-green  pepper,  chopped  2  t-salt 

H  C-diced  cooked  potatoes  2/3  C-salad  dressing 


272     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  the  peas,  celery,  green  pepper,  potatoes,  onion,  egg  and 
salt  thoroughly.  Add  the  salad  dressing,  and  serve  cold  on 
lettuce  leaves.  Garnish  with  rings  of  green  pepper  and  egg 
slices. 

Bettina's  "Quick  Pudding"  (Four  portions) 

2  egg-whites,   stiffly  beaten       3  T-nuts,  cut  fine 
4  T-powdered  sugar  ^  t-vanilla 

10  dates,  cut  fine  %  t-salt 

%  t-baking  powder 

Beat  the  eggs  stiffly,  add  the  nut  meats,  dates,  vanilla,  salt, 
sugar  and  baking  powder.  Place  in  a  well-buttered  tin  mould 
or  a  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Allow  the  mould  to  stand  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  while  in  the 
oven.    Serve  hot. 


J 


CHAPTER  LXXXIV 

UNCLE  JOHN  A  GUEST  AT  DINNER 

^^T  XT' ELL,  well!  In  time  for  dinner;  am  I?"  said  Uncle 
^  V  John,  letting  in  a  gust  of  snow-filled  air  as  he  opened 
the  front  door. 

"Why,  Uncle  John,  I  should  say  you  are!"  answered  Bet- 
tina  with  delight  as  she  removed  her  kitchen  apron.  "Do  you 
smell  my  date  buns  ?    I  believe  you'll  like  them !" 

"Date  buns?  Never  heard  of  anything  so  absurd  in  my 
whole  life !  What  are  they  ?"  And  then,  without  waiting  for 
an  answer,  he  went  on,  "A  regular  blizzard  tonight,  I  do  be- 
lieve! I  telephoned  your  Aunt  Lucy  that  I  wouldn't  be  back 
to  the  farm  till  morning,  then  I  found  a  place  to  leave  my  car, 
and  came  up  here  to  see  if  I  couldn't  get  a  bite  to  eat.  But 
date  buns !  I  don't  know  about  that !  I'm  not  used  to  any- 
thing so  fancy." 

"Well,  Uncle  John,  there's  a  salmon  loaf  baking  in  the  oven, 
and  also  some  lemon  rice  pudding,  so  I  believe  there'll  be 
something  you'll  like." 

"Maybe!"  said  Uncle  John,  doubtfully,  but  with  a  twinkle 
in  his  eye  that  belied  his  words.  "But  let  me  see !  Aunt  Lucy 
sent  you  something ;  what  was  it  ?  Oh,  yes,  some  cream !" 
And  he  took  a  glass  jar  from  its  wrappings. 

"Oh,  Uncle  John,  how  lovely!"  said  Bettina.  "Won't  we 
just  revel  in  cream!  There  comes  Bob  now!  Get  behind  the 
door,  Uncle  John,  and  say  'boo' !  the  way  you  used  to  do  with 
me  when  I  was  a  little  girl !" 

That  night  for  dinner  Bettina  served: 

Salmon  Loaf  Creamed  Potatoes 

Date  Buns  Butter 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Lemon    Rice   Pudding 

Coffee 

^72> 


274     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Ptease  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Salmon  Loaf  (Three  portions) 

I  C-flaked  salmon  ^  t-salt 

14  C-fresh  bread   crumbs  %  t-paprika 

2/3  C-milk  I  t-melted  butter 

I  egg-yolk  I  t-flour 

Mix  the  salmon,  bread  crumbs,  milk  egg-yolk,  salt  and 
paprika.  Pack  down  in  a  well-buttered  pan.  Pour  one  tea- 
spoon of  melted  butter  over  the  top.  Dredge  with  flour.  Bake 
thirty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Date  Buns  (Twelve  Buns) 

3  C-flour  1/3  T-butter 

Yz  t-salt  }i  C-milk 

1  yeast  cake  i  egg 

2  T-sugar  2/3  C-dates 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour  and  the  salt.  Add  the  dates,  which 
have  been  pitted  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Mix  with  sugar 
the  yeast  cake  (broken  up).  Heat  the  milk  and  add  the  but- 
ter. When  the  butter  is  melted,  cool  the  milk  mixture  slightly, 
and  add  it  to  the  yeast  mixture,  stirring  carefully  until  the 
yeast  is  dissolved. 

Add  the  tgg  well-beaten  to  the  milk  mixture,  and  add  this 
to  the  flour.  Mix  thoroughly  and  toss  onto  a  well-floured 
board.  Knead  two  minutes.  Place  in  a  warm  place  and  allow 
to  rise  one  hour.  Divide  into  twelve  pieces  by  cutting  with  a 
knife.  Allow  to  rise  ten  minutes.  Brush  the  tops  with  one 
tablespoon  of  egg  to  which  has  been  added  one  tablespoon 
of  milk.    Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Lemon  Rice  Pudding  (Three  portions) 

2/3  C-cooked  rice  i  T-lemon  juice 

J4  t-salt  H   C-sugar 

I  C-milk  I  T-powdered  sugar 

I  egg  I  t-lemon  juice 

Beat  the  egg-yolk,  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Add 
the  milk  and  the  rice.  Cook  one  minute,  stirring  constantly 
to  prevent  scorching.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  pudding  dish, 
Beat  the  egg-white  very  stiff.  Add  the  powdered  sugar  and 
the  lemon  juice.  (One  teaspoon.)  Pile  lightly  on  top  of  the 
pudding.    Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 


CHAPTER  LXXXV 
DURING  THE  TEACHERS'  CONVENTION 

^^QO  you'll  not  be  back  until  dinner  time?"  Bettina  had 

^  said  at  the  breakfast  table  to  Bob's  cousin,  Edna,  and 
her  friend,  Catherine.  '*A  whole  day  of  it !  How  tired  you'll 
be!" 

Edna  laughed  her  ripply  laugh  that  always  made  everyone 
else  laugh,  too.  "Tired  getting  me  a  hat  and  a  suit  ?  Oh,  Bet- 
tina!   That  makes  me  feel  livelier  than  ever!" 

Catherine  looked  troubled.  "Now,  Edna,"  she  said,  "you 
positively  mustn't  miss  that  afternoon  meeting.  I  know  it  will 
be  so  inspiring!    Remember  what  Professor  Macy  said!" 

Edna  laughed  again.  "Catherine  always  quotes  Professor 
Macy  as  if  he  were  an  oracle  or  a  sphinx  or  something  instead 
of  a  nice  solemn  young  high  school  teacher  who's  getting  a 
little  bald !" 

"He  isn't  bald  and  he  isn't  solemn,"  declared  Catherine  with 
some  spirit. 

"Forgive  me,  Catherine  dear!  He  is  a  lamb  and  a  darling 
and  everything  else  you  want  me  to  say !" 

"I  want  you  to  say?  Why,  Edna,  aren't  you  ashamed!" 
said  Catherine,  growing  very  red.  "Who  ever  heard  of  such 
nonsense  ?" 

"I  love  to  tease  you,  Catherine.  It's  so  easy !  So  you  won't 
help  me  get  my  hat?  I  w^ant  a  beautiful  purple  one — or  else 
a  perky  little  black  one.  I  haven't  decided  whether  to  be 
stately  and  gracious,  or  frivolous  and  cunning.  But  I  do  know 
that  I  will  not  look  as  if  I  were  about  to  cram  the  multiplica- 
tion table  into  the  head  of  some  poor  little  innocent!'* 

275 


276     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Don't  worry,  Edna,"  said  Bob.  "You  won't  look  that  way 
at  all.  In  fact,  I  wonder  that  you  can  be  serious  long  enough 
to  impress  the  members  of  the  school  board  when  they  come 
visiting." 

"She  doesn't  try  to  impress  them;  she  just  smiles  at  them 
instead,  and  that  does  just  as  well,"  said  Catherine.  "But 
she's  not  so  utterly  frivolous  as  her  conversation  sounds.  She 
wants  to  hear  the  convention  addresses  just  as  much  as  I  do — 
and  I  know  she'll  be  there  this  afternoon.  In  fact,  I  intend 
to  save  a  seat  for  her." 

"Between  you  and  Professor  Macy?"  asked  Edna,  inno- 
cently.   "Or  on  his  left?" 

"Shame  on  you,  Edna,"  said  Bettina.  "Now  you  girls  tell 
me  just  what  you'd  like  for  dinner !  Aren't  there  some  spe- 
cial dishes  you're  hungry  for?" 

"Pork  tenderloin  and  sweet  potatoes !"  said  Edna.  "Our 
landlady  never  has  them,  and  I  often  dream  of  the  joy  of  or- 
dering such  delicacies !" 

And  so  that  evening  for  dinner  Bettina  had: 

Pork  Tenderloin  and  Sweet  Potatoes 

Baked  Apples 

Bread  Butter 

Cottage  Pudding  with  Chocolate  Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pork  Tenderloin  and  Sweet  Potatoes   (Four  portions) 

iy2  lbs.    pork    tenderloin     ^  t-pepper 

I  t-salt  4  large  sweet  potatoes 

Wipe  tilt;  tenderloins  which  have  been  prepared  by  cutting 
into  small  pieces  (by  the  butcher).  Place  in  a  small  roaster 
and  put  in  a  hot  oven.  When  brown  on  each  side,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Pare  the  potatoes  and  place  in  the  pan  with 
the  meat.  Baste  every  ten  minutes  with  one-fourth  cup  of 
water  if  there  are  not  sufficient  drippings  to  baste  both  the 
potatoes  and  meat.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done  (about 
forty-five  minutes). 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  277 

Baked  Apples  (Four  portions) 

4  Jonathan  apples       2  t-cinnamon 
8  T-"C"  sugar  i   C-water 

^  t-vanilla 

Wash  and  core  the  apples.  Fill  each  with  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Place  in  a  small 
tin  pan  just  large  enough  to  hold  them.  Add  the  water  and 
the  rest  of  the  sugar,  and  bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.  Baste  frequently  with  the  syrup.  After  the  apples 
have  cooked  thirty  minutes,  add  the  vanilla  to  the  syrup. 

Bettina's  Cottage  Pudding  (Four  portions) 

j4  C-sugar  3  T-chopped  nuts 

J4  t-salt  y2  t-vanilla 

1  C-flour  I  egg 

2  t-baking  powder  ^   C-milk 

3  T-melted  butter 

Mix  the  sugar,  salt,  flour,  baking  powder  and  nuts.  Add  the 
egg  and  milk  and  mix  well.  Add  the  vanilla.  Beat  vigor- 
ously for  two  minutes,  and  then  add  the  melted  butter.  Pour 
into  well-buttered  gem  pans,  filling  each  half  full.  Bake  fif- 
teen minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  with  chocolate  sauce. 

Chocolate  Sauce   (Four  portions) 

H  C-sugar     ys  t-salt 
2  T-flour        I  square  of  chocolate 
I  C-water     %  t-vanilla 

Mix  thoroughly  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Add  the  water 
and  the  chocolate.  Cook  slowly  until  the  chocolate  is  melted 
(about  two  minutes).  Add  the  vanilla  and  serve  hot.  If  too 
thick,  add  more  water  until  the  desired  consistency  is  reached. 


CHAPTER  LXXXVI 
A  LUNCHEON  FOR  THE  TEACHERS 

^^T  'LL  stay  at  home  and  help  you  this  morning;  may  I,  Bet- 

■■-  tina  ?"  asked  Edna,  looking  wistfully  around  at  Bettina's 
white  kitchen. 

"No,  indeed,  my  dear.  It  is  such  a  simple  little  luncheon 
that  I  have  planned  that  I  can  easily  do  it  all  alone.  And  you 
must  go  to  the  meeting.  All  I  ask  is  that  you  won't  forget  to 
come  home  at  noon.'* 

"Edna  would  much  rather  fuss  around  with  you  in  this 
dear  little  kitchen  than  to  go  to  the  meetings,"  said  Catherine, 
"but  I  won't  let  her.  She  is  always  crazy  to  cook  and  do  house- 
work and  things  like  that,  but  she  came  to  this  convention  with 
me,  and  I  intend  to  have  her  get  the  benefit  of  it.  Do  you 
hear  me,  you  bad  girl?  It's  almost  time  for  us  to  be  there. 
Go  and  get  your  things !" 

"This  is  the  way  I'm  managed  all  the  time!"  complained 
Edna  to  Bettina.    "Do  you  wonder  that  I  look  thin  and  pale  ?'* 

"Poor  Edna !"  said  Bettina,  smiling  at  her  round  figure  and 
rosy  cheeks.  "Now  do  run  along  with  Catherine.  But  don't 
forget  we'll  have  three  other  guests  at  noon!  So  wear  your 
prettiest  smile !" 

"And  I'll  help  you  serve !"  Edna  smiled  back. 

That  day  for  luncheon,  Bettina  had : 

Creamed  Oysters  on  Toast 

Pear  Salad  Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 

Pecan  Ice  Cream  Sponge  Cake 

Mints  Coffee 

278 


WitFi  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  279 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed  Oysters  on  Toast  (Six  portions) 

6  pieces  of  toast,  ^  t-paprika 

cut  circular  i  t-salt 

3  T-butter  i^  C-milk 

4  T-flour  2  C-oysters 

Pick  over  the  oysters,  and  drain  off  the  liquor.  Melt  the 
butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Gradually  add  the  milk,  cook  until  thick  and  creamy  (about 
three  minutes),  and  add  the  oysters.  Serve  very  hot  on  toast. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

Pear  Salad   (Six  portions) 

6  halves  of  pear  6  halves  of  walnuts 

5^  C-cottage  cheese  y%  t-paprika 

I  T-chopped   pimento  6  T-salad  dressing 

I  T-chopped  green  pepper  6  pieces  of  lettuce 

Arrange  the  pears  on  the  lettuce  leaves.  Mix  the  cheese, 
pimento,  green  pepper  and  paprika  thoroughly.  Fill  the  half 
of  the  pear  with  the  mixture.  Place  salad  dressing  over  the 
mixture  and  lay  one  nut  meat  on  top  of  each  portion.  Serve 
cold. 

Pecan  Ice  Cream  (Ten  portions) 

I  qt.   of  cream     ly^  T-vanilla 
^  C-sugar  ^  C-pecan  meats,  cut  fine 

Mix  the  cream,  sugar  and  vanilla.  Fill  a  freezer  half  full  of 
the  mixture.  When  half  frozen  add  the  pecan  meats.  Con- 
tinue freezing  until  stiff.  Pack  and  allow  to  stand  two  hours 
to  "ripen"  before  serving. 

Sponge  Cake  (Ten  portions) 

6  egg-yolks  6  egg-whites 

I  C-sugar  I  C-flour 

I  t-lemon    extract     ^  t-salt 

Beat  the  egg-yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  Add  the 
sugar  gradually  and  continue  beating,   using  a  Dover   tgg- 


280    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

beater.  Add  the  extract  and  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiffly 
beaten.  Remove  the  egg  beater  and  cut  and  fold  the  flour 
which  has  been  sifted  four  times,  the  salt  having  been  added 
to  the  last  sifting.  Bake  one  hour  in  an  unbuttered,  narrow 
pan  in  a  slow  oven. 

Genuine  sponge  cake  has  no  baking  powder  or  soda  in  it. 
The  eggs  must  be  vigorously  beaten  so  that  the  cake  will  rise. 
A  very  slow  oven  is  necessary.  Increase  the  heat  slightly  every 
fifteen  minutes. 

Do  not  cut  sponge  cake;  it  should  be  broken  apart  with  a 
fork. 


CHAPTER  LXXXVII 
RUTH  COMES  TO  LUNCHEON 

^^"DETTINA,  what  makes  the  gas  stove  pop  like  that  when 

■*-'  I  Hght  it?    I've  often  wondered." 

"Why,  Ruth,  that's  because  you  apply  the  match  too  soon. 
You  ought  to  allow  the  gas  to  flow  for  about  four  seconds; 
that  fills  all  the  little  holes  with  gas  and  blows  out  the  air. 
Then  light  it,  and  it  won't  pop  or  go  out.  The  flame  ought  to 
burn  blue;  if  it  burns  yellow,  turn  it  off,  and  adjust  it  again." 

"Well,  I'm  glad  to  know  that.  Sometimes  it  has  been  all 
right  and  sometimes  it  hasn't,  and  I  never  realized  that  it  was 
because  I  applied  the  match  too  soon.    I'm  glad  I  came  today." 

"I'm  glad,  too,  but  not  because  of  instructing  you,  I'm  not 
competent  to  do  that  in  very  many  things,  goodness  knows ! 
When  I  called  up  and  asked  you  to  lunch,  it  was  because  I  had 
such  a  longing  to  see  what  lovely  things  you'd  be  making 
today.    You  will  have  the  daintiest,  prettiest  trousseau,  Ruth !" 

"I  love  to  embroider,  so  I'm  getting  great  fun  out  of  it.  I 
tell  Fred  it's  a  treat  to  make  pretty  things  and  keep  them  all ! 
They  were  usually  for  gifts  before!    Oh,  lobster  salad?" 

"No,  creamed  lobster  on  toast.  There,  Mister  Lobster, 
you're  out  of  your  can.  I  always  hurry  him  out  in  double- 
quick  time  onto  a  plate,  or  into  an  earthen-ware  dish,  because 
I'm  so  afraid  something  might  interrupt  me,  and  I'd  be  careless 
enough  to  leave  him  in  the  opened  can!  Though  I  know  I 
never  could  be  so  careless.  Then  I  never  leave  a  metal  fork 
standing  in  lobster  or  canned  fish.    It's  a  bad  thing." 

"I  knew  about  the  can,  but  not  about  the  fork,  though  I  don't 
believe  I  ever  do  leave  a  fork  or  a  spoon  in  anything  like 
that." 

281 


282     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Would  you  prefer  tea,  coffee,  or  chocolate  with  these  cook- 
ies for  dessert?" 

"Coffee,  I  believe,  Bettina.  Aren't  they  cunning  cookies! 
What  are  they  ?" 

"Peanut  cookies.  I  think  they  are  good,  and  they  are  so 
simple  to  make.  They  are  nice  with  afternoon  tea;  mother 
often  serves  them.  There — lunch  is  all  ready  but  the  coffee, 
and  we'll  have  that  last." 

Luncheon  consisted  of : 

Creamed  Lobster  on  Toast 

Head  Lettuce  French  Dressing  with  Green  Peppers 

Bread  Butter 

Peanut  Cookies 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed  Lobster  on  Toast  (Two  portions) 

2/3  C-lobster  2  T-flour 

2  T-butter  i  C-milk 

A  few  grains  of  H  t-lemon  juice 

cayenne    pepper  i  egg-yolk 

1/3  t-salt  3  slices  of  toast 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  salt,  cayenne  and  flour.  Gradually 
add  the  milk,  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly  unless  in 
double  boiler.  Add  the  egg-yolk.  Add  the  lobster,  separated 
with  a  fork,  and  the  lemon  juice.  Serve  very  hot  on  toast, 
garnished  with  parsley. 

Head  Lettuce  (Two  portions) 
I  head  lettuce 

Remove  the  outside  leaves  and  the  core.  Soak  in  cold  water 
with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  in  it,  with  the  head  of  the  lettuce 
down.    Cut  into  quarters.    Serve  a  quarter  as  a  portion. 

French  Dressing  with   Green   Peppers    (Two   portions) 

y^  t-salt  4  T-olive  oil 

}i  t-pepper       2  T-chopped  green 
2  T-vinegar         peppers 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  283 

Mix  the  salt,  pepper,  and  green  pepper.  Add  the  vinegar. 
Beat  well  and  add  the  olive  oil  slowly.  Beat  with  a  silver 
fork  until  the  dressing  thickens. 

Peanut  Cookies  (Two  dozen) 


y2  C-sugar  J4  t-salt 

'  3  T-butter  i  C-flour 

I  egg  H  C-chopped  peanuts  \ 

I  t-baking    powder     Yz  t-lemon  juice  j 

1 
Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  mix  well,  and  add  well-  j 

beaten  ^gg.  Add  the  baking-powder,  salt,  flour,  chopped  pea- 
nuts, and  lemon  juice.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  drop  two  inches 
apart  on  a  greased  baking-tin  or  in  pans.     Bake  fifteen  min-  ; 

utes  in  a  moderate  oven.  *  ■■ 

i 


CHAPTER  LXXXVIII 
THE  HICKORY  LOG 

C^O  AY,  this  feels  good!"  said  Bob,  as  he  warmed  his  hands 

^  by  the  cheerful  blaze. 

"Doesn't  it!"  said  Bettina,  enthusiastically.  "And  see,  I've 
set  the  dinner  table  here  by  the  fireplace.  It's  such  fun  when 
just  the  two  of  us  are  here.    Isn't  the  log  burning  well?" 

"I  wondered  if  we  could  use  one  of  our  new  logs  tonight — 
thought  about  it  all  the  way  home.  And  here  you  had  already 
tried  it !  November  has  turned  so  much  colder  that  I  believe 
winter  is  coming." 

"So  do  I,  but  I  don't  mind,  I  don't  want  a  warm  Thanks- 
giving." 

"Dinner  ready  ?  M — m,  what's  that  ?  Lamb  chops  ?  Escal- 
loped  potatoes  ?    Smells  good  !" 

"Come  on,  dear !  After  dinner,  we'll  try  those  nuts  we  left 
so  long  out  at  Uncle  John's.  Do  you  think  they're  dry  enough 
by  this  time?  Charlotte  phoned  me  that  they  had  tried  theirs, 
and  found  them  fine.  By  the  way,  she  and  Frank  may  come 
over  this  evening." 

"Hope  they  do.     Listen — I  hear  a  car  outside  now." 

"Sure  enough,  that's  Frank  and  Charlotte.  Go  to  the  door, 
Bob !  We'll  persuade  them  to  eat  dessert  with  us.  .  .  Hello, 
people!  Come  in;  you're  just  in  time  to  have  some  tea  and  a 
ginger  drop-cake  apiece." 

"That's  what  we  came  for,  Bettina !"  shouted  Frank,  laugh- 
ing. "And  then  you  must  come  out  in  the  car  with  us.  It's 
a  beautiful,  clear,  cold  night,  and  you'll  enjoy  it — if  you  take 
plenty  of  wraps !" 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served:        ^ 

284 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  285 

Lamb   Chops  Escalloped  Potatoes 

Egg  Plant 

Bread  Butter 

Ginger    Drop-Cakes 

Tea 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level). 
Broiled  Lamb  Chops  (Two  portions) 

2  lamb    chops     i  t-salt 

^   t-paprika 

Wipe  the  chops  and  place  in  a  red-hot  pan  over  the  flame. 
When  the  under  surface  is  seared,  turn  and  sear  the  other  side. 
Turn  often  for  twelve  minutes.  When  nearly  cooked,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  paprika. 

Escalloped  Potatoes    (Two   portions) 

iVz  C-raw  potatoes,  sliced     Yz   C-milk 
^  t-salt  I  T-butter 

I  T-flour  y^  t-paprika 

I  T-chopped   green   pepper 

Mix  the  potatoes,  salt,  flour,  paprika  and  green  pepper. 
Place  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  or  casserole.  Pour  the  milk 
over  the  mixture  and  dot  with  butter.  Put  a  cover  on  the  dish 
and  allow  to  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Remove  the  cover  and 
allow  to  cook  twenty  minutes  more.  More  milk  may  be  added 
if  the  mixture  is  too  dry. 

Egg  Plant   (Three  portions) 

I  t^g  plant         I  T-water 

I  t-salt  3^  C-cracker  crumbs 

I  T-egg-yolk      2  T-lard 

Peel  and  slice  the  tgg  plant  in  slices  one-half  an  inch  thick. 
Sprinkle  each  slice  with  salt.  Place  the  slices  on  top  and  allow 
to  stand  for  two  hours.  This  drains  out  the  liquid.  Wipe  each 
piece  with  a  cloth  and  dip  in  the  beaten  egg-yolk,  to  which  the 
water  has  been  added.  Dip  in  the  cracker  crumbs.  Place  the 
lard  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  very  hot,  add  the  slices  of  ^gg 
plant.     Brown  thoroughly  on  both  sides,  lower  the  fire  and 


286    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

cook  five  minutes.    Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  the  sHces  over- 
lapping each  other. 

Ginger  Drop-Cakes    (Fifteen   cakes) 

I  C-molasses  2  t-ginger 

^  C-boiHng  water  J/2  t-salt 

2^  C-flour  3/2  C-chopped  raisins 

I  t-soda  4  T-melted  butter 

Put  the  molasses  in  a  bowl,  add  the  boiling  water  and  the 
dry  ingredients,  sifted.  Then  add  the  raisins  and  the  melted 
butter.  Beat  well  for  two  minutes.  Pour  into  buttered  muffin 
pans,  filling  the  pans  one-half  full.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  ove^l. 


J 


CHAPTER  LXXXIX 
SOME  CHRISTMAS  PLANS 

^^/^HRISTMAS  is  in  the  air  today,  I  believe,"  said  Char- 

^^^  lotte  as  she  took  off  her  hat  and  warmed  her  cold 
hands  at  Bettina's  open  fire.  "You  ought  to  see  the  children 
around  the  toys  downtown — swarming  like  flies  at  the  molas- 
ses!  Still,  we  ought  to  think  about  Thanksgiving  before  we 
begin  our  Christmas  plans,  I  suppose." 

"I  try  to  get  all  my  Christmas  packages  ready  by  Thanks- 
giving," said  Bettina.  "Of  course,  I  don't  always  succeed, 
but  it  is  a  splendid  aim  to  have !  There  is  always  so  much  to 
do  at  the  last  minute — baking  and  company  and  candy  mak- 
ing! This  year  we  plan  to  give  very  few  gifts — but  to  send 
a  card  at  least  to  each  of  our  friends.  We're  racking  our 
brains  now  to  think  of  something  that  will  be  individual — 
really  ours,  you  know.  I  think  a  tiny  snapshot  of  yourself  or 
your  home,  or  your  baby  or  your  dog — or  even  a  sprig  of  holly 
or  a  bit  of  evergreen  on  a  card  with  a  few  written  words  of 
greeting  means  more  to  a  friend  than  all  the  lovely  engraved 
cards  in  the  world !  Of  course,  some  people  can  draw  or  paint 
and  make  their  own — Alice  will,  I'm  sure.  One  girl  I  know 
makes  wonderful  fruit  cake,  and  she  always  sends  a  piece  of 
it,  in  a  little  box  tied  with  holly  ribbon,  to  each  of  her  friends. 
Aren't  the  little  gifts  that  aren't  too  hard  on  one's  purse  the 
best  after  all — especially  when  they  really  come  straight  from 
the  giver,  and  not  merely  from  the  store  ?" 

"Bettina,  I'll  be  afraid  to  send  you  anything  after  such  an 
eloquent  sermon  as  this!" 

"Oh,  Charlotte,  how  you  talk !     I'm  telling  you  my  idea  of 

287 


288     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

what  a  Christmas  gift  should  be,  but  I'll  probably  fall  far 
below  it  myself !    Luncheon  is  ready,  dear." 
For  luncheon  Bettina  and  Mrs.  Dixon  had: 

Mutton   in   Ramekins  Rice 

Peanut  Bread  Butter 

Apple  Sauce 

Tokay  Grapes  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Mutton  in  Ramekins  (Three  portions) 

V/i  C-cold    mutton     i  t-chopped  mint 
2/3  C-brown  gravy     i   egg-yolk 
y2  t-salt  I  egg-white,  beaten  stiff 

Mix  the  mutton,  gravy,  salt,  mint  and  egg-yolk  thoroughly. 
Add  the  egg-white.  Turn  into  well-buttered  ramekins  or  china 
baking  dishes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
for  twenty-five  minutes.     Serve  in  the  ramekins. 

Rice  (Three  portions) 

^  C-rice  i  t-salt 

2  qts.  boiling  water     i  T-butter 

Wash  the  rice,  add  slowly  to  the  boiling  salted  water.  Boil 
twenty  minutes.  Pour  the  rice  in  a  strainer  and  rinse  with 
cold  water.  Place  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes  to  dry.  Serve 
warm,  dotted  with  butter. 

Peanut  Bread  (Twelve  slices) 

2  C-flour  4  T-"C"  sugar 

4  t-baking    pov^der       i  egg 
y2  t-salt  Vi   C-chopped  peanuts 

^  C-milk 

Mix  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  sugar  and 
peanuts.  Add  the  ^gg  and  milk.  Stir  vigorously  two  minutes. 
Place  in  a  well-buttered  bread  pan,  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


xc 

AFTER  THE  FOOTBALL  GAME 

C^npHERE  are  the  men  now,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  rolling 
-^     up  the  hose  she  had  been  darning.    ''Good !"  said  Bet- 
tina.     "The  dinner  is  just  ready  for  them,  and  I'm  glad  they 
didn't  keep  us  waiting." 

"Hello !  Hello !"  shouted  Frank  and  Bob,  letting  in  a  gust  of 
cold  air  as  they  opened  the  door.    "Whew !  It's  cold  1" 

"How  was  the  game?" 

"Fine !    39  to  o  in  favor  of  Blake !" 

"Not  very  exciting,  I  should  think." 

"Still,  Frank  here  wanted  to  bet  me  that  Blake  would  be 
badly  beaten!" 

"Frank!"  said  Charlotte  in  exasperation.  "Is  that  the  way 
you  show  your  loyalty  to  your  home  college  ?" 

"Shame  on  you,  Frank!"  grinned  Bob.  "Well,  dinner 
ready  ?     I'm  about  starving  !" 

"Bettina  has  a  regular  'after-the-game'  dinner  tonight,"  said 
Charlotte.    "Just  the  kind  to  make  a  man's  heart  rejoice!" 

"Hurray !"  said  Bob,  stirring  up  the  grate  fire.  "And  after- 
ward we'll  have  our  coffee  in  here,  and  toast  marsnmallows. 
Shall  we?" 

"Suits  me !"  said  Frank.  "Anything  you  suggest  suits  me, 
if  it's  something  to  eat." 

"Dinner's  ready,"  said  Bettina.  "Come  into  the  dining-room, 
people,  and  tell  us  about  the  game.  Charlotte  and  I  have 
mended  all  your  hose  this  afternoon,  and  we  deserve  a  royal 
entertainment  now." 

289 


290    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Bettina,"  said  Frank,  "do  you  expect  us  to  talk  when  you 
set  a  dinner  like  this  before  us?" 
The  menu  consisted  of : 

Flank  Steak,  Braized  with  Vegetables 

Cabbage   Salad 

Bread  Butter 

Brown  Betty  with  Hard  Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(Ali^measurements  are  level) 

Flank  Steak  Braized  with  Vegetables  (Four  portions) 

VA  lbs.  flank  steak,  i^  inches         i  T-butter 

thick  i^   C-sliced,    raw   potatoes 

2  T-flour  ^  C-thinly  sliced  onions^ 

2  t-salt  I  green  pepper,  sliced  thin 

I  C-tomato  pulp 

Cut  with  a  knife  across  the  grain  of  the  flank  steak,  to  pre- 
vent it  from  curling  up.  Sprinkle  the  flour  and  one  teaspoon ful 
of  salt  on  both  sides  of  the  meat.  Dot  with  butter,  and  place 
in  an  oblong  baking  pan.  Over  the  meat  place  a  thick  layer 
of  sliced  raw  potatoes.  Add  the  green  pepper,  and  season 
with  one-half  a  teasponful  of  salt.  Place  the  onions  next  and 
the  rest  of  the  salt.  (One-half  a  teaspoonful.)  Pour  one 
cup  of  stewed  or  raw  tomato  pulp  over  all  the  mixture,  and 
cover  the  baking  pan  tightly.  Cook  slowly  in  the  oven  for 
two  hours.  One-half  hour  before  the  meat  is  done,  remove 
the  cover  to  allow  it  to  brown.  Water  may  need  to  be  addea 
to  prevent  burning.  In  serving,  very  carefully  transfer  the 
steak  to  a  hot  platter,  preserving  the  various  layers  of  vege- 
tables. To  serve,  slice  down  through  the  layers  as  through  a 
loaf. 

Cabbage  Salad  (Four  portions) 

2  C-chopped    cabbage     ^  t-salt 
2  pieces  of  celery  %  t-paprika 

^2  C-salad  dressing  or  enough  to  moisten 

Chop  the  cabbage  and  the  celery  fine.    Add  salt,  paprika  and 
salad  dressing.     Serve  cold. 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  291 

Brown  Betty   (Four  portions) 

2  C-bread  crumbs  i  t-cinnamon 

2  C-sliced  apples,  pared  and     H  C-water 

cored  i  T-lemon  juice 

J4  C-sugar  I  T-butter 

Ys  t-salt 

Mix  the  crumbs,  apples,  sugar,  salt  and  cinnamon  well. 
Pour  water  and  lemon  juice  over  the  mixture.  Place  in  a  but- 
tered baking-dish.  Place  the  butter  over  the  top  in  small 
pieces.  Cover  the  pan  with  a  lid  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
forty-five  to  sixty  minutes.  Remove  the  lid  after  the  Brown 
Betty  has  been  cooking  twenty-five  minutes  More  water  may 
be  needed  if  the  apples  are  not  very  juicy. 

Hard   Sauce    (Four  portions) 

3  T-butter  J4  t-lemon  extract 

I  t-boiling  water     ^  t-vanilla  extract 

ii  C-powdered  sugar 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  water  and  slowly  add  the  sugar. 
Continue  mixing  until  very  creamy.  Add  the  lemon  and  va- 
nilla extract.  Form  into  a  cube  and  place  in  the  ice  box.  Al- 
low to  stand  half  an  hour,  then  cut  into  slices  and  serve  on  top 
of  the  Brown  Betty. 


CHAPTER  XCI 
A  THANKSGIVING  DINNER  IN  THE  COUNTRY 

AFTER  all  the  excitement  of  Alice's  wedding,  Bettina 
was  more  than  delighted  when  she  and  Bob  were  invited 
to  a  family  dinner  at  Aunt  Lucy's  on  Thanksgiving  day.  "It 
always  seems  to  me  the  most  comfortable  and  restful  place  in 
the  world,"  said  she  to  Bob.  "And  Aunt  Lucy  is  such  a  won- 
derful cook,  too  !    We're  very  lucky  this  year,  i  can  tell  you  I" 

"Who's  to  be  there?" 

"Father  and  mother — we  are  to  drive  out  with  them — and 
Aunt  Lucy's  sister  and  her  big  family.  Thanksgiving  seems 
more  natural  with  children  at  the  table,  I  think.  And  those 
are  the  liveliest,  rosiest  children!" 

Bob  had  slept  late  that  morning,  and  consequently  had  eaten 
no  breakfast,  but  he  did  not  regret  his  keen  appetite  when 
Uncle  John  was  carving  the  great  brown  turkey. 

"The  children  first,  John,"  said  kind  Aunt  Lucy.  "The 
grown  folks  can  wait." 

Little  Dick  and  Sarah  had  exclaimed  with  delight  at  the 
place  cards  of  proud  turkeys  standing  beside  each  plate.  In 
the  center  of  the  table  was  a  great  wicker  basket  heaped  with 
oranges,  nuts  and  raisins. 

"It  doesn't  seem  natural  without  pumpkin  oie,"  said  Aunt 
Lucy,  "but  John  was  all  for  plum  pudding  instead." 

"We  can  have  pie  any  day,"  said  Uncle  John,  "but  this  is  a 
special  occasion.  What  with  Dick  here — and  Sarah — and  Bet- 
tina— who's  some  cook  herself,  I  can  tell  you ! — I  was  deter- 
mined that  mother  should  show  her  skill !  And  she  did ;  didn't 
she?" 

292 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  293 

The  menu  was  as  follows : 

Turkey  with  Giblet  Gravy  Oyster  Dressing 

Mashed  Potatoes  Creamed  Onions 

Cranberry  Frappe 

Bread  Celery  Butter 

Plum  Pudding  Hard  Sauce 

Nuts  Raisins 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level; 

THE  THANKSGIVING   DINNER   RECIPES 

Roast  Turkey   (Fourteen  portions) 
I   i2-lb.  turkey 

The  turkey  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  and  washed  in  a 
pan  of  water  to  which  one  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  added 
to  each  two  quarts  of  water.  Wash  the  inside  with  a  cloth, 
rinsing  thoroughly,  allowing  plenty  of  water  to  run  through  the 
turkey.  Dry  well  and  stuff.  Season  all  over  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.  When  baking,  lay  the  fowl  first  on  one  side,  then 
on  the  other  until  one-half  hour  before  taking  from  the  oven. 
Then  it  should  be  turned  on  its  back,  allowing  the  breast  to 
brown.  A  twelve  pound  turkey  should  be  cooked  three  hours 
in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  frequently. 

Oyster  Dressing  (Fourteen  portions) 

6  C-stale  bread  crumbs       2  t-salt 
14  C-melted  butter  ^  t-pepper 

I  pt.  oysters 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  adding  the  oysters 
cleaned  and  drained  from  the  liquor.  Fill  the  turkey  and  sew 
up  with  needle  and  thread. 

Preparing  the  Giblets 

Wash  thoroughly  the  heart,  liver  and  gizzard.  Cut  through 
the  thick  muscle  of  the  gizzard  and  peel  it  slowly  without 
breaking  through  the  inside  lining.  Cut  the  heart  open,  and 
remove  carefully  the  gall  bladder  from  the  liver.  Wash  care- 
fully again,  and  soak  ten  minutes  in  salted  water.   Cook  slowly 


294     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

until  tender,  in  one  cup  of  water.    More  water  may  be  needed. 
Cut  fine,  and  add  to  the  gravy.     Save  the  stock. 

The  Gravy 

1  C-stock        I  T-cold  water 

2  T-flour       ^  t-salt 

For  each  cup  of  Hquor,  which  is  left  in  the  roasting  pan,  add 
one  tablespoon  of  flour.  Mix  the  flour  with  two  tablespoons  of 
cold  water,  add  the  liquid  slowly,  and  cook  two  minutes.  Add 
one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  the  giblets.     Serve  hot. 

Creamed  Onions  (Six  portions) 

2  C-cooked   onions     i  C-white  sauce 

Cook  the  onions  in  one  quart  of  water  in  an  uncovered 
utensil  until  tender.  (About  fifteen  minutes.)  Drain  and  add 
one  cup  of  white  sauce.     Serve  hot. 

Plum  Pudding   (Six  portions) 


2  C-soft  bread 
Ya  t-soda 
J4  t-cloves 

I  t-cinnamon 
li  t-salt 

crumbs     ^  C-molasses 
4  T-"C"  suga 
I  egg 
%  C-milk 
J^   C-currants 

1/2  C-suet 

I 

H   C-raisins 
t-vanilla 

Chop  the  suet,  and  sprinkle  with  one  tablespoon  of  flour  to 
prevent  sticking.  Add  the  raisins,  currants,  "C"  sugar,  salt, 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  bread  crumbs.  Add  the  egg  and  m.ilk 
beaten  together,  add  the  vanilla,  mix  the  soda  in  the  molasses 
and  add  to  the  first  mixture.  Fill  a  well-buttered  pudding 
mould  one-half  full.  Steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 

Hard  Sauce 

1/3  C-butter  94  C-brown  sugar 

2  T-hot  water     ^  t-vanilla 
J/2  t-lemon  extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  water  and  gradually  add  the  sugar. 
Continue  mixing  until  very  creamy.  Add  the  vanilla  and 
lemon  extract.     Chill  and  serve  over  the  hot  pudding. 


CHAPTER   XCII 
PLANNING  THE  CHRISTMAS  CARDS 

C^   A    ND  what  is  in  this  dish,  Bettina?"  asked  Bob,  as  he 

-/"V.    Hfted  the  hot  cover. 

"Candied  sweet  potatoes,  dear,  and  I'm  almost  sure  that 
you'll  like  them.  I  made  them  in  the  fireless  cooker,  and 
they're  really  more  candy  than  potatoes." 

"They'll  suit  me,  then,"  said  Bob.  "The  sweeter  the  better ! 
My  mother  used  to  cook  up  candied  sweet  potatoes  with  a  lot 
of  brown  sugar  syrup — say,  but  they  tasted  good  about  this 
time  of  year  when  I  would  come  in  from  skating!  Well,  I 
believe  these  are  exactly  like  hers !" 

"Only  hers  weren't  made  in  a  fireless  cooker,"  said  Bettina. 
"Now,  Bob,  as  soon  as  you  have  allayed  your  hunger  a  little 
we  must  put  our  heads  together  long  enough  to  get  an  idea  for 
Christmas  cards.  If  we  have  something  made,  it  may  take 
several  weeks,  and  you  know  it  is  no  small  task  to  address 
several  hundred  of  them.  As  soon  as  we  have  ordered  them, 
we'd  better  make  out  our  Christmas  list.  But  first,  what  shall 
the  cards  be  ?     Think,  Bob !" 

"Goodness  gracious  sakes  alive,  but  thinking  is  hot  work! 
Well,  how's  this?  Suppose  we  don't  have  cards  engraved — 
they're  expensive,  and  besides,  'twould  take  too  long!  We'll 
find  some  plain  white  correspondence  cards — or  perhaps  white 
cards  with  a  red  edge — and  envelopes  to  go  with  them,  and  in 
the  corner  of  the  card  we'll  stick  a  tiny  round  snapshot  of  the 
house.  Then  we'll  write  this  verse  very  neatly  and  sign  it 
*Bettina  and  Bob/  Perhaps  you  can  improve  on  this,  how- 
ever: 

295 


296     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"We  enclose  our  Christmas  greetings 
And  the  hope  that  we  may  know 
Many  happy  future  meetings 
In  this  Httle  bungalow !" 

"Bob,  that's  the  very  thing !"  cried  Bettina. 
For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Beefsteak  Fireless  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Carrots 

Pineapple  Charlotte  Custard  Sauce 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Fireless    Sweet    Potatoes    (Candied)     (Six    Portions) 

6  large  sweet  potatoes       i  t-salt 
I   C-brown  sugar  %  t-pepper 

14  C-water  i  T-butter 

Wash  and  peel  the  sweet  potatoes.  Slice  them  lengthwise 
in  one-half  inch  slices.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  for  five 
minutes  the  brown  sugar  and  water.  Add  the  butter.  Ar- 
range the  potatoes  in  a  fireless  cooker  utensil.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them.  Place  the 
heated  disks  under  and  over  the  pan  of  potatoes,  and  cook  in 
the  fireless  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Pineapple  Charlotte  (Four  portions) 


2  T-corn  starch 

2  egg-whites 

4  T-cold  water 

I  t-vanilla 

^  t-salt 

^  t-lemon   extract 

54  C-sugar 

2  slices  of  pineapple  cut 

I  C-boiling   water 

in  slices  lengthwise 

Mix  the  corn  starch,  salt  and  sugar ;  gradually  add  the  cold 
water,  stirring  well,  and  then  add  the  hot  water.  Cook  about 
five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Then  add  the  vanilla,  and 
the  egg-whites  stiffly  beaten.  Pour  into  a  moistened  mould  in 
which  the  slices  of  pineapple  have  been  arranged.  Set  in  a 
cool  place  for  two  hours.     Serve  with  custard  sauce. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  297 

Custard  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

ij^  C-milk  H  t-vanilla 

2  egg-yolks      ^  t-salt 
%  C-sugar  I  T-flour 

%  t-lemon  extract 

Mix  well  the  sugar,  salt  and  flour,  gradually  add  the  beaten 
egg-yolks,  and  the  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the 
mixture  coats  a  silver  spoon  yellow.  Add  the  vanilla  and 
lemon  extract.     Beat  one  minute.     Serve  very  cold. 


DECEMBER. 

Boasting  turkeys!    Rich  mince  pies! 
Cakes  of  every  shape  and  size! 
Santa,  though  they're  fond  of  you,    , 
Christmas  needs  us  housewives,  too! 


CHAPTER   XCIII 
HARRY  AND   ALICE   RETURN 


4tTTrHO  can  that  be?"  said 
VV  Bettina,  laying  down 
her  napkin.  ^'Someone  is  at  the 
door,  Bob,  I  think.  I  wonder 
why  he  doesn't  ring?" 

^'Hello!"  said  Bob,  throwing 
open  the  door.  "Why,  Bettina ! 
It's  AHce  and  Harry  !  When  did 
you  get  home?" 

"We're  on  our  way  home 
now,"  said  Harry,  as  he  set 
down  the  suitcases  he  was  holding.  "Say,  these  are  heavy! 
We  thought  we'd  stop  in  for  a  minute  to  rest." 

"Welcome  home !"  said  Bettina.  "Just  think,  we  don't  even 
know  yet  where  you  went  for  your  wedding  trip,  though  we 
suspected  California." 

"California  it  was,"  said  Alice,  "along  with  all  the  other 
recent  brides  and  grooms.  We  escaped  any  particular  notice; 
there  were  so  many  of  us.  It  was  rather  a  relief,  though." 
"Have  you  had  your  dinner?"  asked  Bettina,  a  little  em- 
barrassed at  the  thought  of  the  "dinner  for  two"  that  she 
and  Bob  were  just  finishing.  There  was  certainly  not  enough 
left  for  another  person,  not  to  suggest  two.  But  then,  of 
course  there  was  her  ample  emergency  shelf. 

"We  had  our  dinner  on  the  diner,"  said  Harry,  "or  we 
shouldn't  have  dared  to  stop  at  this  hour." 

"Do  come  on  out  to  the  kitchen,"  said  Bettina.     "Bob  19 

299 


300     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

about  to  make  some  delicious  sour  cream  candy,  aren't  you, 
Bob?  Surely  that  is  a  splendid  way  to  entertain  a  newly 
returned  bride  and  groom." 

"Fine !"  said  Harry,  "though  we  can't  stay  long.  We  must 
hie  to  our  own  apartment  and  get  rid  of  the  dust  of  travel. 
We're  looking  forward  to  the  time  when  we  can  return  some 
of  your  hospitality.  I  shall  learn  to  make  even  better  candy 
than  Bob's !" 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  had : 

Pork  Chops  with  Sweet  Potatoes 

Apple  Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Perfection  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pork  Chops  with  Sweet  Potatoes  (Two  portions) 

2  sweet  potatoes     Ya  t-paprika 
I  t-salt  2  chops 

1/3  C-boiling  water 

Pare  sweet  potatoes,  add  salt  and  place  in  the  bottom  of  a 
small  roasting  pan.  Wipe  pork  chops  and  place  on  top  of  the 
potatoes.  Place  the  pan,  uncovered,  on  the  top  shelf  of  a  hot 
oven  in  order  to  brown  the  chops.  Brown  on  one  side  and 
then  turn  gently  and  brown  on  the  other.  Sprinkle  with  a 
little  salt  and  paprika,  and  add  one-third  of  a  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Cover,  and  bake  one  hour,  or  until  the  potatoes  are 
done.     Baste  frequently. 

Perfection  Salad   (Three  portions) 

I  T-granulated  gelatin  4  T-sugar 

4  T-cold  water  ^  t-salt 

4  T-vinegar  2/3  C-diced  celery 

I  T-lemon  juice  Vt.   C-shredded  cabbage 

I  C-boiling  water  i  green  pepper,  chopped 

2  T-pimento,  cut  fine 

Add  the  cold  water  to  the  gelatin,  and  let  it  stand  for  five 
minutes.  Add  the  boiling  water.  When  thoroughly  dissolved 
add  the  vinegar,  salt,  lemon  juice  and  sugar.     Mix  well.    Add 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  301 

the  celery,  cabbage,  green  pepper  and  pimento  when  the  jelly 
begins  to  set.  Pour  into  a  mould  which  has  been  dipped  in 
cold  water.  Allow  to  set  in  a  very  cold  place  for  one  hour. 
Serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Sour  Cream  Candy  (Six  portions) 

2  C-brown  sugar  i  t-vanilla 

y2  C-sour  cream  or  ^  C-sour   milk  plus    i   T-butter 
%  t-cream  of  tartar 

Mix  the  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  the  sour  cream  or  milk. 
Cook  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  allov/  to  cool.  Beat  until  creamy 
and  place  in  a  well-buttered  pan. 


CHAPTER   XCIV 

THE    FIRELIGHT    SOCIAL 

^^  \  ND  what  have  you  been  doing  all  day?"  asked  Bot 
jljL  after  he  had  related  his  own  experiences  at  the  office. 
"Just  my  usual  work  this  morning,  and  this  afternoon  I 
went  to  a  meeting  of  the  social  committee  of  our  Young 
People's  League ;  you  know  I've  promised  to  help  this  winter. 
They  plan  a  social  to  be  given  in  about  two  weeks  to  raise 
money  for  the  orphanage  fund,  and  I  do  think  their  idea  is  a 
clever  one.  You  see,  it's  a  ^firelight  social' ;  admission  ten 
cents.  Mrs.  Lewis  has  offered  her  house  for  it.  Invitations 
are  to  be  sent  to  all  members  of  the  church,  Sunday  school 
and  league,  inviting  people  to  *come  and  read  pictures  in  the 
fire.'  The  cards  are  to  be  decorated  with  little  pen  and  ink 
sketches  of  hearthstones  with  burning  logs  on  them.  Of 
course  there  will  be  a  huge  log  in  her  big  fireplace.  Then  as 
soon  as  the  guests  are  gathered  around,  someone  is  to  read 
aloud  that  passage  from  *Our  Mutual  Friend,'  where  Lizzie 
Hexam  reads  the  pictures  in  the  firelight  for  her  brother.  Then 
pencils  and  paper  will  be  passed  among  the  guests  and  each  one 
writes  a  short  description  of  the  pictures  he  sees  in  the  fire. 
In  ten  minutes  these  are  collected  and  read  aloud,  with  a  prize 
for  the  best  one.  Then  corn  will  be  popped  and  marshmallows 
toasted,  and  weird  ghost  stories  told.  (Of  course  certain 
clever  people  have  been  asked  beforehand  to  be  prepared.) 
Then  supper  will  be  served  by  candlelight;  it  will  consist  of 
things  like  sandwiches,  cider,  coffee,  nuts  and  cookies.  Don't 
you  thim:  a  firelight  social  will  be  fun?" 

"Sure  it  will!     But  I'm  glad  to-night  we  can  be  alone  by 
our  own  firelight,  Bettina !" 

302 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  303 

That  evening  for  dinner  Bettina  served  : 

Fried  Oysters  Baked  Potatoes 

Bettina's  Relish  Asparagus  on  Toast 

Apple  Tapioca  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Fried  Oysters  (Two  portions) 

12  oysters  i  T-water 

y2  C-cracker   crumbs     ^  t-salt 
I  T-egg  yk  t-paprika 

2  T-fat 

Look  over  the  selected  large  oysters  to  remove  the  shells. 
Mix  the  Qgg,  water,  salt  and  paprika.  Dip  the  oyster  in  the 
tgg  mixture  and  in  the  crumbs.  Place  the  fat  in  the  frying- 
pan,  and  when  hot  add  the  oysters.  Brown  nicely  on  each 
side,  three  minutes.  Serve  very  hot  on  a  hot  platter.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley. 

Bettina's  Fried-Oyster  Relish  (Two  portions) 

I  C-cabbage,  cut  fine  ^  t-mustard 

I  green  pepper,  cut  fine  K  t-salt 
I  pimento,  cut  fine  i  T-"C"  sugar 

%  t-celery  salt  2  T-vinegar 

Mix  the  celery  salt,  mustard,  salt  and  sugar,  add  the  vinegar. 
Pour  over  the  pimento,  green  pepper  and  cabbage.  Serve  a« 
a  relish  with  oysters  and  meats.  This  relish  should  be  served 
within  one-half  hour  after  it  is  made. 

Asparagus  on  Toast  (Two  portions) 

5^2  can  asparagus  tips  J4  t-salt 

I  C-vegetable  white  sauce     Ys  t-pepper 
2  slices  of  toast 

Heat  the  asparagus  tips  in  the  liquid  in  the  can.  When  hot, 
remove  from  can  upon  slices  of  toast,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper 
over  each  portion.  Pour  one  serving  of  white  sauce  over 
each  portion. 


304    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Apple  Tapioca  (Two  portions) 

4  T-pearl    tapioca     Ys  t-salt 
3  T-cold  water  4  T-sugar 

I  C-boiling  water     ^  t-vanilla 
2  sour  apples 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  cold  water  for  ten  minutes  in  the 
upper  part  of  the  double  boiler.  Add  the  boiling  water  and 
salt.  Cook  until  transparent.  (About  twenty  minutes.)  Cut 
the  apples  fine,  mix  thoroughly  with  the  sugar,  place  in  the 
bottom  of  a  small  baking  dish,  pour  the  tapioca  mixture  on 
them,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  apples  are  soft. 
(About  twenty-five  minutes.  The  time  depends  upon  the 
variety  of  apple.) 


CHAPTER   XCV 

ALICE'S    TROUBLES 

^^TT /"HY,  Alice,  come  in !  Are  you  going  out  to  dinner,  or 
^  ^     just  on  your  way  home  from  some  afternoon  party?" 

"I'm  going  down  town  to  dinner  with  Harry ;  I'll  meet  him 
there.    And  afterward  we  are  going  to  the  theatre." 

"What  fun !" 

"Yes,  fun  for  me,"  said  Alice  slowly.  "I  persuaded  him  to 
go.  Just  think,  Bettina,  we  haven't  been  to  the  theatre  one 
single  time  since  we've  been  married !" 

"And  that  is — let's  see — about  six  weeks?"  said  Bettina, 
laughing.  "Come  into  the  kitchen,  Alice.  I'm  making  a  cran- 
berry pie  for  dinner." 

"A  cranberry  pie?  One  of  those  darling  criss-crossy  ones?" 
said  Alice  joyfully,  throwing  off  her  evening  cloak.  "Do  let 
me  help.  I  used  to  make  little  cranberry  pies  in  a  saucer  when 
I  was  little !  I  had  forgotten  that  they  existed !  Harry  shall 
have  one  to-morrow !"  And  she  rolled  out  the  crust  with 
deft  fingers. 

"How  easily  and  quickly  you  do  everything,  Alice." 

"Yes,  too  easily.  Getting  breakfast  is  fun,  and  getting  dinner 
is  fun,  but  it's  over  too  soon.  What  do  you  do  in  the  evening, 
Bettina?" 

"Oh,  stay  at  home  and  read  and  mend  mostly.  What  do 
you  do?" 

"That's  the  trouble.  Don't  you  get  dreadfully  bored  just 
sitting  around?    Harry  likes  it — but  I  don't  see  how  he  can." 

"But  aren't  you  tired  in  the  evening  ?     I  suppose  he  is." 

"Tired  ?  Mercy  no  !  Not  with  the  care  of  that  little  apart- 
ment !    I  like  fun  and  excitement  and  something  to  do  in  the 

305 


306    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

evening !  I've  been  studying  household  economy,  as  you  sug- 
gested, and  I've  learned  a  lot,  but  I  can't  be  doing  that  all  the 
time !  Well,  I  must  run  on,  Bettina !  Let  me  know  how  the 
pie  turns  out !" 

That  night  Bettina  served: 

Bettina's  Pork  Chops  and  Dressing 

Baked  Potatoes  Apple  Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Cranberry  Pie  Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 
Pork  Chops  Bettina   (Two  portions) 

2  pork  chops  Yz  t-salt 

Yz  t-chopped  onion  i  T-melted  butter 

I  T-chopped  green  pepper  i  egg-yolk 

lY   C-fresh  bread  crumbs  %  t-celery  salt 

Y  t-chopped  parsley  i  T-water 

Add  the  onion,  green  peppers,  parsley,  salt  and  celery  salt  to 
the  crumbs.  Add  the  egg-yolk,  butter  and  water,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Wipe  the  chops,  and  place  one  in  a  small  pan  (to 
serve  as  a  roasting  pan),  place  the  dressing  on  top.  Place 
the  other  chop  on  top  of  the  dressing.  Press  together  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour.  Turn  the  chops  so  that 
the  under  one  will  brown.  Baste  occasionally  with  one-fourth 
of  a  cup  of  hot  water  to  which  has  been  added  one  teaspoon 
of  butter.  Put  a  lid  on  the  pan  so  that  the  steam  will  cause 
the  chops  to  cook.  Place  one  tablespoon  of  water  in  the  pan 
to  prevent  burning  or  drying  out.  Replenish  when  neces- 
sary. 

Apple  Sauce  (Two  portions) 

6  Jonathan  apples     %  t-cinnamon 
Yi  C-sugar  Enough  water  to  cover 

Wash,  pare,  core  and  quarter  the  apples.  Cover  with  water 
and  cook  until  tender  when  pierced  with  a  knitting  needle. 
Add  the  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes  more.  Sprinkle  cinna- 
mon over  the  top  when  serving. 


Witfi  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  307 

Cranberry  Pie  (Four  portions) 

2  C-cranberries  i  T-water 

I  C-boiling  water  i  T-flour 

V/i  C-sugar  ^  t-butter 

I  egg-yolk  y2  t-almond  extract 

Cook  the  cranberries  and  water  until  the  cranberries  are 
soft.     Add  the  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes. 

Mix  flour  and  water,  add  the  egg-yolk,  butter  and  extract. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Add  to  the  cranberry  mixture.  Pour  into 
the  uncooked  pie-crust.  Place  pastry  bars  lattice  fashion 
across  the  top,  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Pie  Crust  (Four  portions) 

I  C-flour     H  t-sait 
5  T-lard       3  T-water 

Mix  the  flour  and  salt.  Cut  in  the  lard  with  a  knife,  and 
add  the  water  very  carefully,  to  form  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  into 
shape,  and  reserve  a  small  part  of  the  dough  for  the  bars.  Fit 
the  crust  carefully  into  a  deep  tin  pie-pan.  Fill  the  crust  with 
the  cranberry  filling,  being  careful  not  to  let  any  juice  run  out. 
Cut  the  bars  two-thirds  of  an  inch  wide.  Moisten  the  ends, 
and  arrange  in  criss-cross  fashion  across  the  pie. 


CHAPTER   XCVI 

SOME   OF  BETTINA'S    CHRISTMAS   PLANS 

i^'T^O-NIGHT,"  said  Bettina  at  the  dinner  table,  "I  expect 
-■-  to  finish  three  Christmas  gifts — one  for  AHce,  one  for 
Mary  and  one  for  Eleanor.  Now  aren't  you  curious  to  know 
what  I've  been  making?" 

"Curiosity  is  no  name  for  it,"  said  Bob,  "but  I'm  even  more 
curious  to  know  what  particular  thing  it  is  that  makes  this 
ham  so  tender.  Is  it  baked?  Anyhow,  it's  the  best  I  have 
ever  eaten." 

"Thank  you,"  said  Bettina,  "but  you  always  say  that  about 
sliced  ham,  no  matter  how  it  is  cooked.  But  this  is  a  little 
different.     It  is  baked  in  milk." 

"Great,  anyhow,"  said  Bob.  "Now  tell  me  about  your  con- 
spiracy with  Santa  Claus." 

"Well,  I  am  making  for  Alice  an  indexed  set  of  recipes — a 
card  index.  All  the  recipes  are  just  for  two,  and  they  are  all 
tried  and  true." 

"Just  for  two. 
Tried  and  true — 
Sent,  with  Betty's  love,  to  you." 

echoed   Bob.     "You  can  write  that  on  the  card  that  goes 
with  it." 

"I  shall  have  you  think  what  to  say  on  all  the  gifts.  Bob.  I 
must  show  you  the  box  of  cards.  It  is  only  a  correspondence- 
card  box,  with  the  white  cards  to  fit,  but  I'm  sure  that  Alice 
will  like  her  new  cook  book.    Then  for  Mary  and  Eleanor  I 

308 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  309 

have  made  card-table  covers.  Mary's  is  of  white  Indian  head 
— just  a  square  of  it,  bound  with  white  tap  and  with  white 
tape  at  the  corners  for  tying  it  to  the  table.  It  is  to  have  a 
white  monogram.  Eleanor's  is  linen-colored  and  is  bound  in 
green  with  a  green  monogram.  Hers  is  finished  and  I  shall 
finish  Mary's  this  evening — that  is,  if  you  will  read  to  me  while 
I  work !" 

"Hurray !"  said  Bob.    "What  shall  I  read?    Mark  Twain?" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Baked  Ham  Baked  Potatoes 

Corn  Bread  Butter 

Cranberry  Sauce 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Baked  Ham  (Three  portions) 

2/3  lb.    slice    of  ham     i   C-milk 
one  inch  thick         i  T-flour 
I  T-water 

Cover  the  ham  with  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  ten  min- 
utes. Remove  from  the  pan,  and  place  the  ham  in  a  pan  just 
large  enough  to  hold  it.  Cover  with  the  milk.  Place  in  a 
moderate  oven  and  bake  thirty  minutes.  More  milk  may  be 
added  if  necessary.  When  the  ham  is  done,  add  more  liquid 
(enough  to  make  one-half  a  cup).  Mix  flour  with  water. 
Add  the  hot  milk  to  this  slowly.  Heat  and  cook  one  minute. 
Serve  with  the  ham. 

Corn  Bread  (Three  portions) 

^2  C-corn  meal  ^4  t-salt 

2/3  C-flour  I  egg-yolk 

3  T-sugar  2/3  C-milk 

2  t-baking  powder  i  T-melted  butter 

Mix  the  corn  meal,  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt 
thoroughly.  Add  the  egg-yolk  and  milk,  and  beat  two  min- 
utes. Add  the  melted  butter.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  a  well 
buttered  square  cake  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty 
minutes. 


310    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Cranberry  Sauce   (Four  portions) 

I  qt.  cranberries     2  C-sugar 
2  C-water 

Look  over  and  wash  the  cranberries.  Cook  them  in  the 
water  until  they  are  soft  and  the  skins  are  broken.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  the  sugar  and  stir  well.  Cook  three  min- 
utes.    Pour  into  a  mould  which  has  been  dipped  in  cold  water. 


CHAPTER    XCVII 

MORE  OF  BETTINA'S  CHRISTMAS  SHOPPING 

*^^"DOB,   said    Bettina,    as   she    served   the   plum   pudding, 
-^      ''Christmas  is  in  the  very  air  these  days!" 
"Did  the  Christmas  spirit  inspire  this  plum  pudding?"  said 
he.     "Blessings  on  the  head  of  Santa  Claus !     But  why  your 
outburst  ?" 

"Because  today  I  went  shopping  in  earnest!  I  bought  the 
very  things  that  seem  most  Christmassy :  tissue  paper,  white 
and  green,  gold  cord,  a  ball  of  red  twine,  Santa  Claus  and 
holly  stickers,  and  the  cards  to  tie  to  the  packages.  I  love  to 
wrap  up  Christmas  things !" 

"And  are  most  of  your  gifts  ready  to  be  wrapped?" 
"No,  not  all,  for  some  of  them  can't  be  made  till  the  last 
minute.  For  instance,  I  thought  and  thought  about  Uncle 
Eric's  gift !  I  want  so  much  to  please  him,  but  he  has  every- 
thing that  money  can  buy  except  perhaps  a  cook  that  suits 
him.  Finally  I  decided  to  sendhim  a  box  containing  a  jar  of 
spiced  peaches,  a  jar  of  Russian  dressing,  a  little  round  fruit 
cake,  and  a  box  of  fudge.     The  things  will  all  be  wrapped 

with  tissue  paper,  and  gold  cord  and  holly " 

"Lucky  Uncle  Eric!"  sighed  Bob.  "I  wish  Santa  Claus 
would  bring  me  a  Christmas  box  like  that — fruit  cake  and 

spiced  peaches  and  Russian  dressing " 

"Maybe  he  will  if  you're  very  good !"  laughed  Bettina.  "If 
you  eat  everything  your  cook  sets  before  you." 

"Tell  me  something  hard  to  do !"  said  Bob,  with  enthusi- 
asm.   For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

311 


312     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Escalloped  Eggs  and  Cheese 

Baked  Potatoes  Current  Jelly 

Rolls 

Plum  Pudding  with  Yellow  Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Escalloped   Eggs   with    Cheese    (Three   portions) 

3  hard-cooked  eggs  i  C-soft  bread  crumbs 

2  T-butter  J/2  C-cheese,  cut  fine 

2  T-flour  I  t-salt 

I  C-milk  I  t-parsley 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  mix  well.  Gradually  add 
the  milk.  Cook  one  minute,  add  the  cheese  and  the  eggs  cut 
in  slices.  Add  the  parsley  and  the  salt.  Place  one-half  the 
crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered  baking  dish,  add  the 
tgg  mixture  and  cover  with  the  remaining  crumbs.  Dot  with 
butter,  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Bettina's  Plum  Pudding  (Four  portions) 

I  C-fresh  bread  crumbs     i  t-baking  powder 
%  C-suet,  chopped  fine       54   C-molasses 
J4  t-soda  I  egg 

Ys  t-ground  cloves  1/3  C-milk 

y2  t-ground  cinnamon  4  T-raisins 

Ys  t-salt  4  T-nuts 

Mix  the  bread  crumbs,  suet,  soda,  cloves,  cinnamon,  salt 
and  baking  powder.  Add  the  raisins  cut  fine,  and  the  nuts. 
Break  the  tgg  into  the  molasses,  beat  well,  and  add  the  milk. 
Mix  with  the  first  ingredients.  Stir  and  mix  thoroughly.  Fill 
a  well-buttered  pudding  mould  one-half  full.  Steam  one  and  a 
half  hours,  and  serve  with  yellow  sauce. 

Yellow  Sauce   (Four  portions)  • 

I  egg  I  T-milk 

Y4   C-powdered  sugar     Y2  t-vanilla 

Beajt  the  egg  white  until  stiff  and  dry.  Add  the  yolk  and 
beat  one  minute.  Add  the  powdered  sugar  and  continue  beat- 
ing. Add  the  milk  gradually  and  the  vanilla.  Continue  beat- 
ing- for  one  minute.     Serve  at  once  over  a  hot  pudding. 


CHAPTER   XCVIII 
CHRISTMAS  GIFTS 

^«0  PEAKING  of  Christmas  gifts,"  said  Charlotte,  "wouldn't 

^  anyone  be  delighted  to  receive  a  little  jar  of  your  Rus- 
sian dressing,  Bettina  ?" 

"I'm  sure  I'd  like  it !"  said  Frank  Dixon.  "Much  better  than 
a  pink  necktie  or  a  white  gift  book  called  'Thoughts  at  Christ- 
mas-Tide !'  " 

"Mary  Owen  makes  candied  orange  peel  for  all  of  her 
friends,"  said  Bettina,  "and  I  think  that  is  so  nice,  for  hers 
is  delicious !  She  saves  candy  boxes  through  the  year,  and  all 
of  her  close  friends  receive  the  same  gift  with  Mary's  card. 
We  all  know  what  to  expect  from  her,  and  we  are  all  delighted, 
too.  And  you  see  she  doesn't  have  to  worry  over  different 
gifts  for  each  one.  I  do  think  Christmas  is  growing  more 
sensible,  don't  you?" 

"My  sister  in  South  Carolina  sends  out  her  Christmas  gifts 
a  few  weeks  early,"  said  Frank.  "She  sends  boxes  of  mistle- 
toe to  everyone.  They  seem  to  be  welcome,  too.  By  the  way, 
Bob,  did  you  and  Bettina  decide  on  your  Christmas  cards?" 

"Yes,"  said  Bob,  "and  they  are  partly  ready.  But  we  are 
waiting  to  get  a  little  picture  of  the  bungalow  with  snow  on 
the  roof — a  winter  picture  seems  most  appropriate — and  the 
snow  isn't  forthcoming!  The  weather  man  seems  to  be  all 
upset  this  year." 

"Charlotte  has  been  making  some  small  calendars  to  send 
out,"  said  Frank.    "She  has  used  her  kodak  pictures,  and  I'm 

313 


314     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

afraid  theyVe  mostly  of  me !  I  don't  know  what  some  of  my 
friends  will  say  when  they  see  me  with  an  apron  around  my 
neck,  seeding  cherries !" 

"They'll  be  surprised,  anyhow,"  said  Charlotte.  "I  rather 
like  that  picture  myself !" 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served: 

Escalloped  Oysters  Baked  Potatoes 
Head  Lettuce  Russian  Dressing 
Baking  Powder  Biscuits  Apple  Jelly- 
Prune  Whip  Cream 
Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Escalloped  Oysters   (Four  portions) 

2  C-oysters  i  t-salt 

2  C-cracker  crumbs       J4  t-pepper 

3  T-melted  butter       lYz  C-milk 

Look  over  the  oysters  carefully  and  remove  any  particles 
of  shell.  To  the  melted  butter  add  salt,  pepper  and  cracker 
crumbs.  Place  a  layer  of  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  well 
buttered  baking  dish,  and  add  the  oysters  and  more  crumbs 
until  the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  the  milk  over  the  oysters  and 
crackers.    Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Russian  Dressing  (Four  portions) 

I  C-salad   dressing  ^  t-paprika 

I  t-chopped  pimento  Ya  t-salt 

I  t-chopped  green  pepper  ^  C-olive  oil 

I  t-vinegar  H   C-chili  sauce 

To  the  cup  of  salad  dressing,  add  the  oil,  chili  sauce,  season- 
ings, vinegar  and  finely  chopped  vegetables.  Beat  two  minutes. 
Pour  over  head  lettuce. 

Prune  Whip  (Four  portions) 

1/3  lb.    prunes       i  T-lemon  juice 
3  egg-whites     Yz  C-sugar 

Look  over  and  wash  the  prunes.     Soak  for  three  hours  in 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  315 

cold  water.  Cook  until  soft.  Rub  through  a  strainer,  and 
add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juic€.  Cook  this  mixture  for  five 
minutes.  Beat  the  egg  whites  until  very  stiff,  and  add  the 
prunes  when  cold.  Pile  lightly  into  a  buttered  baking  dish 
and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.     Serve  with  cream. 


CHAPTER   XCIX 

A   CHRISTMAS    SHOWER 

^^"r^EAR  Bettina,"  wrote  Polly,  "somehow  I  never  do  like 
^-^  to  write  letters — certainly  not  at  this  busiest  time  of 
the  year! — but  I  simply  must  tell  you  about  a  luncheon  that 
Elizabeth  Carter  and  I  gave  the  other  day  for  one  of  our 
holiday  brides.  (Angeline  Carey;  do  you  remember  her?  A 
dear  girl — rather  quiet,  but  with  plenty  of  good  common 
sense.) 

"We  had  a  large  Christmas  table  (aren't  they  simple  and 
effective?),  with  a  Christmas  tree  in  the  center,  strung  with 
tiny  electric  lights,  and  hung  with  tinsel  and  ornaments. 
Strings  of  red  Christmas  bells  stretched  from  the  chandelier 
above  the  table  to  the  four  corners.  The  favors  at  each  place 
were  several  kinds, — Santas,  little  Christmas  trees,  snow  men 
and  sleds,  all  of  them  concealing  at  their  bases  the  boxes  hold- 
ing the  salted  nuts.  The  place-cards  were  simply  Christmas 
cards. 

"Before  the  guest  of  honor  stood  a  small  Santa,  larger, 
however,  than  any  of  the  other  Santas,  and  in  his  hands  were 
the  ends  of  twenty  or  more  narrow  green  ribbons,  each  lead- 
ing to  a  separate  shower-package  at  the  base  of  the  tree.  These 
packages  (it  was  a  miscellaneous  shower)  made  an  interest- 
ing-looking heap,  but  we  didn't  ask  Angeline  to  open  them 
until  we  had  reached  the  salad  course.  Then  she  drew  each 
one  toward  her  by  the  end  of  a  ribbon,  opened  it,  and  read 
the  verse  on  the  gift.     You  have  no  idea  how  clever  some  of 

316 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  317 

the  gifts  and  verses  were!  Margaret  McLaughlin — do  you 
remember  her? — had  dressed  a  dishmop  in  two  tea  towels, 
making  the  funniest  old  woman !  This  she  introduced  as 
Bridget,  Angeline's  cook-to-be !  One  of  the  girls  who  sketches 
cleverly  had  illustrated  her  card  with  pictures  of  Angeline  in 
her  kitchen. 

"But  I  am  forgetting  our  table  decorations!  We  had  fur- 
nished four  rooms  for  Angeline,  doll  size,  and  the  furniture 
of  each  was  grouped  along  the  table.  Besides  the  living  room, 
bedroom,  dining  room  and  kitchen,  we  presented  Angeline  and 
Dean  with  an  auto  (in  miniature,  of  course),  a  cow,  a  horse, 
several  ducks  and  chickens,  a  ferocious  dog  and  a  sleepy  cat. 
Weren't  we  good  to  them?  And  lo  and  behold!  beside  the 
auto  stood  Dean  himself,  disguised  as  a  little  china  kewpie 
man;  while  Angeline,  always  a  lady,  stood  gracefully  in  the 
living  room  and  refused  to  help  him  with  his  menial  tasks, 
or  to  assist  Nora,  who  was  hanging  out  the  clothes  in  the  back 
yard.     Angeline  was  a  kewpie,  dressed  in  style. 

"We  had  the  greatest  fun  finding  and  arranging  these  deco- 
rations !  And  now  I  must  tell  you  about  the  luncheon  itself. 
I'm  even  enclosing  our  recipes,  for  I  know  you'll  be  inter- 
ested. .  .  ." 

"Hello,  there,  Bettina !"  called  Bob  at  this  moment,  coming 
in  with  a  rush,  "is  dinner  ready?  What  do  you  suppose  I've 
done?  I've  absolutely  forgotten  to  send  a  Christmas  gift  to 
Aunt  Elizabeth,  and  I  know  she'll  feel  hurt.  Will  you  go 
with  me  after  dinner  to  get  it  ?" 

Polly's  luncheon  menu  was  as  follows : 


A  CHRISTMAS   SHOWER 

Grapefruit  with  Maraschino  Cherries 

Chicken  Croquettes  Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Peas 

Light  Rolls  Butter 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Vegetable  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

Santa  Claus  Sandwiches 
Chocolate   Ice   Cream  a  la  Tannenbaum 

Christmas  White  Cake 
Salted  Nuts  Coffee  Candy  Canes 


318    A  Thousand  Wa^s  To  Please  a  Husband 

"I  wish,  Bettina/'  Polly's  letter  continued,  "that  you  might 
have  seen  the  cunning  sandwiches  that  we  served  with  the 
salad.  They  were  cut  with  a  star-shaped  cooky  cutter,  and 
on  each  one  was  perched  a  tiny  Santa  Claus.  The  sandwiches 
were  arranged  on  a  tray  decorated  with  Christmas  tree 
branches. 

"And  now  comes  the  dessert.  The  chocolate  ice  cream  was 
served  in  small  flower  pots  lined  with  waxed  paper,  and  in 
each  flower  pot  grew  a  miniature  Christmas  tree.  Around  the 
base  of  the  tree,  whipped  cream  was  heaped  to  represent  snow. 
They  were  really  very  cunning. 

"Served  with  the  ice  cream  was  a  large  round  white  cake 
decorated  very  elaborately  with  icing  bells  and  holly.  On  the 
top  was  placed  a  real  candy  bell,  large  and  red.  This  cake 
was  carried  in  to  Angeline  to  cut.  Around  the  base,  inside 
the  cake,  were  twenty  tiny  favors  wrapped  in  waxed  paper. 
They  were  of  all  sorts :  pipes,  canoes,  flat  irons,  animals,  birds, 
many  things,  but  all  very  tiny.  Narrow  white  bows  tied  on 
each  favor  indicated  its  position  in  the  cake  so  that  the  pieces 
could  be  cut  to  give  each  guest  a  favor.  Angeline  cut  her 
piece  first  and  drew  her  favor  by  pulling  the  little  white  rib- 
bon. It  was  really  great  fun  drawing  and  unwrapping  the 
favors,  and  the  girls  tried  to  interpret  the  meaning  of  each. 
Mary  Katherine,  Angeline's  younger  sister,  drew  the  ring,  and 
delightedly  proclaimed  that  she  would  be  the  next  bride.  At 
this  the  girls  looked  a  little  doubtful,  for  at  the  table  were  no 
less  than  six  engaged  girls  besides  Angeline.  Mary  Katherine 
may  fool  them — who  knows? — but  I  hope  not,  for  she  is  far 
too  young  and  silly  to  'settle  down'  for  many  years. 

"With  the  coffee  we  served  striped  candy  canes. 
"Well,  Betty,  I  believe  I've  told  you  everything  about  our 
Christmas  luncheon.     Do  write  me  soon  again,  for  I  love  to 
get  your  letters.     Stir  Bob  up  to  write  occasionally;  he  has 
forgotten  his  sister — now  that  he  has  a  wife. 

"Yours  always, 

"Polly." 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  319 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Chicken  Croquettes  (Twenty-five  croquettes) 


A  3-lb.  chicken,  cooked 

2  t-salt 

and  cut  fine 

I  C-chicken  fat 

I  lb.    lean    veal,    cooked 

^  C-flour 

and  cut  fine 

I  T-salt 

4  T-chopped    green    pep- 

2 C-milk 

per 

2  eggs 

%  t-paprika 

3  T-water 

3  C-cracker   crumbs 

Melt  the  chicken  fat.  Add  the  flour  and  salt  and  mix  well. 
Gradually  add  the  milk,  stirring  constantly.  When  the  mix- 
ture gets  thick  and  creamy,  allow  it  to  cook,  with  an  asbestos 
mat  under  the  pan,  for  five  minutes.  This  cooks  the  flour 
thoroughly.  Beat  one  minute  to  make  it  creamy.  Add  the 
chicken,  veal,  green  pepper,  paprika  and  salt.  Allow  the  mix- 
ture to  cool.  Take  one  tablespoon  of  the  cooled  mixture,  and 
dip  in  the  beaten  egg  to  which  the  water  has  been  added.  Dip 
in  the  crumbs  and  shape  any  desired  shape,  preferably  conical. 
Allow  the  croquettes  to  stand  at  least  one  hour  before  frying. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Keep  hot  in  the 
oven  until  serving. 

Vegetable  Salad  (Twenty  portions) 

10  tomatoes  J^  C-green  pepper,  cut  in  strips 

2  t-salt  20  pieces  of  lettuce 

I  t-paprika  2  C-salad  dressing 

I  C-cottage  cheese 

I  C-pimentoes,  cut  in  strips         J^  C-oil  from  the  canned  pimento 
^  C-whipped  cream 

Arrange  the  lettuce  leaves  (washed)  on  salad  plates.  Place 
one  slice  of  tomato,  two  slices  of  pimento  and  two  slices  of 
green  pepper  on  each.  Sprinkle  the  vegetables  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Add  two  teaspoons  of  cottage  cheese.  Place  one 
teaspoon  of  salad  dressing  on  each  portion. 

To  prepare  the  salad  dressing,  mix  boiled  dressing  and 
pimento  oil  together  and  then  add  the  whipped  cream.  Mix 
well,  and  pile  attractively  on  the  salad. 


CHAPTER   C 

BETTINA  GIVES   A   DINNER 

^i'T^HE  Christmas  feeling  is  everywhere  now !"  said  Bettina, 
-■-  as  she  arranged  a  small  artificial  fir  tree  in  the  center 
of  the  table.  "It  may  be  a  little  early,  but  I  can't  keep  from 
:ising  Christmas  decorations  to-night.  Tannenbaum,  O  Tan- 
nenbaum,  you  look  wonderfully  festive  with  snow  at  your  foot 
and  your  branches  strung  with  tinsel  and  ornaments !  All  that 
you  lack  is  candles,  but  I  shall  use  my  red  shaded  candles  on 
the  table  instead.  Let  me  see,  everything  is  ready,  even  to 
the  biscuits  which  are  in  the  ice  box  waiting  to  be  popped  in 
the  oven  when  the  guests  arrive.  The  salad  is  mixed  and 
waiting,  and  that  Washington  pie  does  look  delicious!  I'm 
glad  I  made  it,  for  Bob  is  so  fond  of  it.  Wonder  why  Bob 
doesn't  come !  I  want  him  to  see  the  table  and  the  tree  before 
the  others  get  here!  And  build  up  the  fire  in  the  fireplace. 
It's  snowing  hard  outside,  and  I  want  it  to  be  warm  and  cozy 
inside.    There's  someone !    Well,  off  goes  my  apron !" 

The  ^'someone"  proved  to  be  Bob,  who  came  in,  very  pink 
as  to  his  face,  and  very  white  as  to  his  snow-covered  shoulders. 

"It's  growing  colder  every  minute!"  said  Bob.  "Well,  a 
Christmas  table  !     I  like  that !     Makes  a  fellow  feel  festive  !'* 

"I  couldn't  resist  the  spirit  of  Christmas,"  said  Bettina. 

"I  couldn't,  either,'*  said  Bob,  taking  a  half-dozen  gorgeous 
yellow  chrysanthemums  from  their  wrappings.  "So  I  bought 
you  an  early  Christmas  gift.     Like  'em?" 

For  dinner,  Bettina  served: 

320 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  321 

Pork  Tenderloins  Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Cauliflower 
Baking  Powder  Biscuits  Butter 

Currant  Jelly- 
Orange  and  Cherry  Salad  Wafers 
Washington  Pie                      Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Orange  and  Cherry  Salad  (Two  portions) 

2  oranges  5^   C-diced  celery 

J^  C-white  cherries     %  t-salt 
y2  C-salad  dressing 

Remove  the  white  membrane  from  the  pulp  of  two  oranges, 
and  cut  each  section  into  half,  crosswise.  Add  the  seeded 
cherries,  celery  and  salt.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  the  salad 
dressing,  and  serve  very  cold  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Washington  Pie  (Six  portions) 

I  1/3  C-sugar      yo  t-lemon  extract 
3  eggs  2  C-flour 

J^  C-water       2  t-baking  powder 

Beat  the  egg-yolks  five  minutes,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  three 
minutes.  Add  the  water,  lemon  extract,  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Mix  thoroughly.  Fold  in  the  beaten  egg  whites  very 
carefully.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  two  round  shallow 
pans  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cool,  put  the  following  filling 
between  the  layers.    Sprinkle  the  top  with  powdered  sugar. 

Cream  Filling  for  Washington  Pie 

2/s  C-sugar     i^   C-milk 
1/3  C-flour  I  egg-yolk 

K  t-salt  ^  t-vanilla 

y  t-lemon  extract 

Mix  thoroughly  the  sugar,  salt  and  flour.  Gradually  add  the 
milk,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  into  the  top  of  a  double  boiler, 
and  cook  until  very  thick.  Add  the  egg-yolk,  vanilla  and  lemon 
extract,  and  cook  two  minutes.  Beat  until  creamy  and  cool. 
Spread  on  the  cake.  Serve  Washington  pie  with  whipped 
cream  if  desired. 


CHAPTER   CI 
BOB'S   CHRISTMAS   GIFT  TO  BETTINA 

BOB  had  walked  home  from  the  office  through  the  falling 
snow — and  it  was  no  short  distance — with  thought  for 
neither  snow  nor  distance.  He  was  distinctly  worried, — Christ- 
mas only  two  weeks  off,  the  first  Christmas  since  he  and  Bettina 
had  been  married,  and  as  yet  he  had  no  idea  w^hat  sort  of  a 
Christmas  gift  he  ought  to  purchase  for  his  wife.  What  did 
she  need?  Unfortunately  he  had  heard  her  say  only  a  few 
days  ago  that  she  didn't  need  a  thing.  What  did  she  secretly 
long  for?  A  glass  baking  dish!  Shucks,  what  an  unromantic 
present !  Surely  Bettina  had  been  teasing  him  when  shs  men- 
tioned such  a  prosy  gift  as  that !  Well,  if  he  didn't  have  some 
inspiration  by  the  day  before  Christmas  there  would  be  noth- 
ing to  do  but  get  her  violets,  or  candy,  or  perhaps  some  silly 
book  that  she  didn't  want. 

"Hello,  Bob !"  said  a  voice  almost  at  his  feet. 

"Say  Mister  Bob,  Billy,"  another  voice  corrected  severely. 

"Hello,  Jacky!    Good  evening,  Marjorie!    Coasting  good?" 

"Oh,  pretty  good.  You  don't  know  what  we've  got  at  our 
house!" 

"Four  Angora  kittens !"  interrupted  Marjorie  eagerly,  be- 
fore Bob  had  a  chance  to  guess.  "Four  whole  kittens.  Can't 
see  a  thing,  though,  but  they'll  learn  after  a  while!  We're 
going  to  sell  three  of  'em,  and  keep  one,  and " 

"See  here,  Marjorie!"  exclaimed  Bob.  "I'd  like  to  buy  one 
myself,  for  a  Christmas  present  to  some  one !  How  about 
it?  You  ask  your  mother  to  save  one  for  me — I'll  stop  in  to- 
morrow morning  and  talk  to  her  about  it.  Could  you  take 
care  of  it  for  me  till  Christmas  morning?" 

322 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  323 

And  Bob  strode  on  with  a  happy  grin  on  his  face.    Wouldn't 
Bettina  laugh  at  the  idea  of  an  Angora  kitten ! 
For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served: 

Beef  Steak  Baked  Potatoes 

Cauliflower  in  Cream  Cranberry  Jelly  Moulds 

Bread  Butter 

Burnt  Sugar  Cake  Confectioner's  Icing 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Cranberry  Jelly    (Three   portions) 

2  C-cranberries     2/3  C-water 

^  C-sugar 

Look  over  the  cranberries,  removing  any  stems  and  soft 
berries.  Add  the  water  and  cook  until  the  skins  have  burst 
and  all  the  berries  are  soft.  Press  through  a  strainer,  remov- 
ing all  the  pulp.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  pulp,  and  cook  until 
the  mixture  is  thick,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  sticking. 
When  the  jelly  stands  up  on  a  plate  it  is  done.  Pour  into 
moulds  (preferably  of  china  or  glass)  which  have  been  wet 
with  cold  water. 

Burnt  Sugar  Cake  (Sixteen  pieces) 

H  C-butter  25^  C-flour 

114  C-sugar  4  t-baking  powder 

2  eggs  I  C-boiling  water 

%  t-salt  I  t-vanilla 

Caramelize  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  When  the  sugar 
is  melted  and  reaches  the  light  brown  or  the  "caramel"  stage, 
add  the  water.  Cook  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved 
in  the  water.  Allow  it  to  cool.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the 
rest  of  the  uncooked  sugar,  and  then  add  the  egg-yolks.  Mix 
well.  Add  the  salt,  flour,  baking-powder,  vanilla  and  the 
cooled  liquid.  Beat  two  minutes  and  add  the  egg-whites 
stiffly  beaten.  Pour  into  two  pans  prepared  with  buttered 
paper.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Ice 
with  confectioner's  icing. 


324    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Confectioner's   Icing    (Sixteen   portions) 

2  T-cream  or  milk         i  T-carmelized  syrup 
}/2  t-vanilla  or  maple  syrup 

1^2  C-powdered  sugar 

Mix  the  cream,  vanilla  and  syrup.  Add  the  sugar  (sifted) 
until  the  right  consistency  to  spread.  Spread  carefully  be- 
tween the  layers  and  on  the  top.  Set  aside  to  cool,  and  to 
allow  the  icing  to  "set."  (More  sugar  may  be  needed  in  mak- 
ing the  icing.) 


CHAPTER    CII 
A  CHRISTMAS  BREAKFAST 

OF  course  a  tiny  Christmas  tree  was  the  centerpiece  on 
Bettina's  breakfast  table,  set  for  a  nine  o'clock  family 
breakfast.  All  of  the  Christmas  gifts  except  those  that  were 
too  large  were  grouped  around  the  base  of  the  tree.  Bettina 
refused  to  allow  even  Bob  to  have  a  peep  at  the  gifts  until  the 
guests,  Father,  Mother,  Uncle  John  and  Aunt  Lucy,  had  ar- 
rived. 

"Now,  don't  you  give  us  too  much  to  eat,  Bettina,"  laughed 
Father.  "I  know  your  mother  has  been  making  some  mighty 
elaborate  preparations  for  dinner  at  home,  and  you  must  leave 
us  with  an  appetite." 

"Well,  you  won't  have  any  appetite  left  if  you  eat  all  you 
want  of  these  waffles  of  mine !"  exclaimed  Bob,  coming  in 
from  the  kitchen  with  a  spoon  in  his  hand  and  an  apron  tied 
around  his  neck. 

"Go  back  to  the  kitchen.  Cook!"  said  Uncle  John.  "We 
don't  want  to  see  you,  but  we're  willing  to  taste  your  waffles. 
Bring  'em  on !" 

"First,"  said  Bettina,  "we'll  eat  our  grapefruit.  Then  we'll 
open  our  packages,  and  then.  Bob,  you  can  help  me  serve  the 
rest  of  our  Christmas  breakfast." 

"Come  on !"  said  Uncle  John.  "Then  I'll  be  Santa  Claus 
and  deliver  the  presents!" 

For  breakfast  Bettina  served : 

Grapefruit  with  Maraschino  Cherries 

Oatmeal  and  Dates  Whipped   Cream 

Ham  Cooked  with  Milk  Creamed  Potatoes 

Muffins  Orange  Marmalade 

Waffles  Maple  Syrup 

Coffee 

^2^ 


326     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband  I 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level)  j 

Oatmeal  with  Dates  (Six  portions) 

I  C-oatmeal        i  t-salt  i 
ij^  C-water          ^  C-dates,  cut  fine 

Mix  the  oatmeal,  salt  and  water,  and  cook  directly  over  the 

fire  for  three  minutes.     Add  the  dates,  put  in  the  fireless,  and  i 

cook  all  night.     Serve  with  unsweetened  whipped  cream.  j 

Ham  Cooked  in  Milk  (Four  portions)  i 

I  lb.  ham  (a  slice  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick) 
I  C-milk 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  ham,  and  allow  it  to  stand  ten 

mmutes.    Remove  the  ham,  and  place  in  the  frying-pan.    Add  I 
the  milk,  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for  twenty-five  minutes. 

Remove  from  the  milk  and  garnish  with  parsley.  j 

Muffins  (Twelve  muffins)  i 

2  C-flour                      Y2  t-salt  ^  i 

4  t-baking  powder       i  egg  \ 
1/3  C-sugar                       I   C-milk 

2  t-melted  butter  j 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt.    Add  the  tggy  \ 

beaten,  and  milk,  and  beat  two  minutes.     Add  the  melted  •! 

butter.     Fill  well-buttered  muffin  pans  one-half   full.     Bake  j 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Waffles    (Six  portions)  . 

,1 

i^  C-flour         3  t-baking  powder  j 
2  T-sugar      2  well-beaten  eggs 

I  t-salt          Va  C-milk  ! 

I  T-melted  butter  ] 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking-powder.    Add  \ 

the  eggs  and  milk.    Beat  two  minutes.     Add  the  butter.    Bake  j 

in  well-greased  waffle  irons.  > 


CHAPTER    cm 

A    SUPPER    FOR   TWO 

•  •TXT" ELL,  this  is  something  Hke  it!"  said  Bob,  as  he  sat 
^^  down  to  dinner  one  evening  several  days  after 
Christmas.  "A  good  plain  meal  again.  I'm  so  tired  of 
Christmas  trees  and  Christmas  flowers  and  Christmas  food 
that  I  don't  believe  I'll  care  to  see  any  more  of  them  till — 
well,  next  year." 

"Everything  is  put  away  now,"  said  Bettina.  "All  the  pres- 
ents are  in  their  permanent  places.  Except  Fluff,"  she  added, 
glancing  at  the  Persian  kitten  cuddled  in  an  arm  chair.  "I 
couldn't  put  Fluff  away,  and  don't  care  to.  Isn't  he  a  darling? 
Just  the  very  touch  that  the  living  room  needed  to  make  it 
absolutely  homelike !" 

"Well,"  said  Bob,  "we  did  need  a  cat,  but  I  think  we  need 
a  dog,  too.  About  next  spring  I'll  get  one,  if  I  can  find  one 
to  suit  me." 

"Oh,  Bob,  won't  a  dog  be  a  nuisance?  And  destructive? 
And  do  you  suppose  Fluff  could  endure  one?" 

"Fluff  can  learn  to  endure  one,"  Bob  said.  "Every  home 
ought  to  have  a  dog  in  it.  Oh,  we'll  get  a  good  dog  some  day, 
Bettina,  if  I  keep  my  eyes  open." 

"Have  another  muffin,"  said  Bettina.  "They'll  do  to  change 
the  subject.  Some  day  I  may  long  for  a  dog,  too,  but  just 
now — well.  Fluff  seems  to  be  a  pet  enough  for  one  house." 

327 


328    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

For  supper  that  night  they  had : 

Bettina's  Scrambled  Eggs  Creamed  Potatoes 

Corn  Gems  Plum  Butter 

Hickory  Nut  Cake  Confectioner's  Icing 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Bettina's  Scrambled  Eggs  (Two  portions) 


2  eggs 

1 
2  T-ham,  cooked  and  cut  fine                 ; 

I  t-onions,  cut  fine 
%  t-celery  salt 
I  T-chopped  pimento 
I  T-green  pepper,  chopped 

2  T-milk                                                       ! 
Vz  T-butter 

1/3  t-salt                                                          ; 
Ys  t-paprika                                                   > 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot,  add  the 
onions,  pimento  and  green  pepper.  Let  cook  slowly  one  min- 
ute. Beat  the  egg,  add  the  milk,  celery  salt,  salt,  paprika  and 
chopped  ham.  Add  the  mixture  to  that  in  the  frying-pan. 
Cook,  stirring  until  it  is  thick  and  creamy.  (About  two  min- 
utes.)    Serve  immediately  on  a  hot  platter. 

Corn  Gems   (Six  gems) 

^2  C-corn  meal  ^  t-salt 

3  T-sugar  i  egg 

i^   C-white  flour  5^   C-milk 

2  t-baking    powder       i  T-melted  butter 

Mix  the  cornmeal,  sugar,  flour,  baking-powder,  salt,  egg 
and  milk.  Beat  two  minutes.  Pour  into  well-buttered  muffin 
pans,  filling  each  half  full.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 


JANUARY 

Simpler  meals  and  wiser  buying, 

More  of  planning, — less  of  hurry ,- 

More  of  smiling, — less  of  sighing, 

More  of  fun,  and  less  of  worry. 

In  this  New  Year's  Resolution, 

Trouble  finds  a  swift  solution. 


CLac^bsaLTt-. 


CHAPTER    CIV 
ALICE  COMES  TO  LUNCHEON 


a 


I 


DO    love    to    cook!"    ex- 
claimed Alice  enthusiastic- 


ally. 


"And  we  have  had  such  de- 
^licious  meals  since  we  began  to 
keep  house,  if  I  do  say  it !  But 
oh,  the  bills,  the  bills !  Bettina, 
isn't  it  terrible?  But  you  can't 
get  any  meal  at  all  without  pay- 
ing for  it,  can  you?  I  really  do 
dread  having  Harry  get  the  first 
month's  grocery  bill,  though." 

"You  ought  not  to  have  to  say  that,  Alice,"  said  Bettina, 
laughing  nevertheless.  "Why  don't  you  have  an  allowance, 
and  pay  the  grocery  bill  yourself  ?" 

"Because  I  know  I  could  never  manage  to  pay  it,"  said 
Alice,  making  a  little  face.  "I  do  love  to  have  perfect  little 
meals  and  cooking  is  such  fun,  but  you  just  can't  have  things 
right  without  having  them  expensive;  I've  found  that  out. 
Last  night  we  had  a  simple  enough  dinner — a  very  good  steak 
with  French  fried  potatoes  and  creamed  asparagus  on  toast. 
Then  a  fruit  salad  with  mayonnaise  and  steamed  suet  pudding 
and  coffee.     Harry  said  everything  was  perfect,  but " 


"I'm  sure  it  was,  Alice. 


You  are  so  clever  at  everything 
331 


332     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

you  do.  But  wasn't  that  expensive  for  just  a  home  dinner 
for  two  ?  Steak  and  creamed  asparagus !  And  mayonnaise 
is  so  expensive !     Then  think  of  the  gas  you  use,  too !" 

"I  didn't  think  of  the  gas,"  said  AHce  ruefully.  "I  thought 
of  Harry's  likes,  and  of  variety,  and  of  a  meal  that  balanced 
well.  But  not  much  about  economy.  I'll  have  to  consult  you, 
Bettina.  I'll  tell  you:  Couldn't  I  plan  my  menus  ahead  for 
a  week,  and  bring  them  over  to  you  to  criticise  ?  That  would 
be  fun,  and  I'm  sure  you  could  teach  me  a  great  deal." 

"I'd  love  to  have  you,  Alice,"  smiled  Bettina. 

For  luncheon  Bettina  served : 


Chicken  Loaf  Creamed  Potatoes 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  Cranberry  Jelly 

Caramel  Custard  Whipped  Cream 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Chicken  Loaf   (Two  portions) 

y2  C-cooked  chicken  li,  t-celery  salt 
J4  C-ground,  cooked  veal       i  t-chopped  parsley 
1/2  C-soft  bread  crumbs  i  e^^ 

1/2  t-salt  y2  C-milk 

Mix  the  chicken,  veal  and  bread  crumbs.  Add  the  salt, 
celery  salt,  parsley,  ^gg  and  milk.  Mix  thoroughly.  Bake  in 
a  well-buttered  pan  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Caramel  Custard  (Two  portions) 

I  C-milk      4  T-sugar 
3  egg  ]/%  t-salt 

%  t-vanilla 

Melt  the  sugar  to  a  light  brown  syrup  in  a  sauce  pan  over 
a  hot  fire,  add  the  milk  and  cook  until  free  from  lumps.    Beat 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  333 

the  egg,  sugar,  salt  and  vanilla,  and  pour  the  liquid  slowly 
into  the  egg  mixture.  Pour  into  buttered  moulds.  Set  the 
moulds  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
the  custard  is  firm  (about  forty  minutes) .  Do  not  let  the  water 
in  the  pan  reach  the  boiling  point  during  the  process  of  baking. 


CHAPTER  CV 
RUTH  STAYS  TO  DINNER 

^  ^  O  EE,  Ruth,  it's  snowing  harder — a  perfect  blizzard.    That 

^  means  that  you'll  have  to  stay  to  dinner." 

*T'm  only  too  glad  to  find  an  excuse,  Bettina,  but  you  must 
remember  that  I'll  have  to  get  back  some  time,  and  I  suppose 
that  now  is  best." 

"Well,  Bob  will  take  you  after  dinner.  See,  I've  put  on  a 
place  for  you.'* 

"That's  fine,  Bettina,  and  I  suppose  I  may  as  well  stay.  I've 
been  anxious  to  ask  you  what  you  were  putting  in  the  oven 
just  as  I  came  in." 

"A  dish  of  tomatoes,  cheese  and  rice  baked  together ;  Bob  is 
fond  of  it.  You  know  I  almost  always  plan  to  have  two  or 
more  oven  dishes  if  I  am  using  the  oven  at  all,  and  tonight  I 
was  making  baked  veal  steak." 

"I  learned  something  new  yesterday,  Bettina,  that  I  have 
been  anxious  to  tell  you.  Mother  was  preparing  cabbage  for 
cold  slaw  (she  always  chops  it,  you  know),  and  it  suddenly 
occurred  to  her  that  she  might  easily  use  the  large  meat 
grinder.  So  she  did,  and  the  slaw  was  delicious.  I  would 
have  supposed  that  the  juice  would  be  pressed  out  in  the 
grinding,  but  it  wasn't." 

"I  must  remember  that.  I  suppose  that  other  people  may 
have  thought  of  it,  but  I  never  have,  and  I'm  glad  to  know 
that  it  works  so  well." 

"I  believe  I  hear  Bob,  Bettina.  He  must  be  cold,  for  it  is 
snowing  and  blowing  harder  every  minute." 

334 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  335 

"Well,  I'm  glad  I  started  the  fire  in  the  fireplace.  There's 
nothing  like  an  open  fire." 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served : 

Baked  Veal  Steak 

Baked  Tomato,  Cheese  and  Rice 

Bread  Butter 

Tapioca  and  Date  Pudding  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Baked  Veal  Steak   (Three  portions) 

I  slice   of  veal   steak   (three-  i  t-salt 

fourths    of    a    pound,    one-  Y^  t-paprika 

half  inch  thick  2  T-bacon  fat 

3  T-flour  2  T-water 

Wipe  the  veal  and  cut  off  any  rind.  Mix  the  flour,  salt  and 
paprika.  Roll  the  steak  thoroughly  in  this  mixture.  Place  the 
bacon  fat  in  the  frying-pan  and  when  hot  add  the  meat  and 
brown  thoroughly  on  both  sides.  Place  the  drippings  and  the 
meat  in  a  small  baking  pan.  Add  the  water,  cover,  and  place 
in  the  oven.  Cook  one  hour.  More  water  may  be  added  if 
necessar3^ 

Baked   Tomato,    Cheese   and    Rice    (Three    portions) 

I  C-cooked  rice  %  t-paprika 

1/3  C-tomatoes  i  T-flour 

4  T-cheese,  cut  fine  J^  C-milk 

I  T-pimento  i  T-melted  butter 

I  t-salt  y^  C-cracker  or  bread  crumbs 

Mix  the  rice  and  flour,  and  add  the  tomatoes,  cheese,  salt  and 
paprika.  Add  the  milk.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  baking 
dish.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  crumbs.  Spread  the  but- 
tered crumbs  on  the  rice  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes. 

Tapioca  and  Date  Pudding  (Three  portions) 

4  T-tapioca  8  dates,  cut  fine 

Ya  t-salt  I  T-lemon  juice 

2  T-cold  water  i  egg-yolk 

1  C-boiling  water  i  egg-white 

2  T-sugar  i  t-vanilla 


336     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  cold  water  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the 
salt  and  boiling  water  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  trans- 
parent. (About  twenty  minutes.)  Add  the  sugar  and  the 
dates  cut  fine,  the  lemon  juice,  egg-yolk  and  vanilla.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg-white.  Pile  the 
mixture  lightly  in  glass  dishes  and  serve  cold. 


CHAPTER  CVI 
HOW  BETTINA  MADE  CANDY 

^^TRAN  over  this  morning,"  said  Alice  to  Bettina,  "to  get 

-■-  your  candy  recipes.  That  was  such  deHcious  Christmas 
candy  that  you  gave  Harry !  Wasn't  it  a  great  deal  of  work 
to  make  so  much  at  a  time?  Perhaps  I  can't  manage  it,  but 
I'd  like  to  make  a  box  of  it  for  Harry's  brother ;  it  will  be  his 
birthday  in  a  few  days." 

*Tt  is  very  easy  to  make  candy  for  Christmas  boxes/'  said 
Bettina.  "That  is,  it  is  no  harder  to  make  a  large  quantity 
than  to  fill  one  box.  Bob  helped  me  one  evening,  and  we  made 
four  kinds  at  once.  I  had  already  stuffed  some  dates  and 
made  some  candied  orange  peel,  so  you  see  when  the  candy 
was  made,  it  was  fun  to  fill  the  boxes  with  a  variety  of  things. 
I  always  save  boxes  throughout  the  year  for  Christmas  candy, 
and  then  I  fill  them  all  at  once.  Of  course,  until  this  year  I 
didn't  have  Bob  to  help  me;  he  enjoys  it,  you  know,  and  two 
people  can  make  it  so  much  more  quickly  than  one." 

"Next  year,"  said  Alice,  "I  think  I  shall  make  Christmas 
candy — a  quantity  of  it,  so  that  I  can  put  a  box  of  it  in  every 
family  box  that  I  send.  Meanwhile,  I'll  practise  and  ex- 
periment, and  perhaps  I  can  improve  on  the  good  old  recipes, 
or  think  of  clever  ways  of  arranging  and  wrapping.  Now  will 
you  let  me  write  down  some  of  your  best  recipes?  I'll  try 
them  for  Harry's  brother." 

The  candies  that  Bettina  made  were: 

Chocolate   Fudge  White   Fudge 

Peanut  Brittle       Peanut  Fondant 

337 


338     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Chocolate  Fudge  (One  pound) 

2  C-sugar  2  squares  or  two  ounces 
I  C-sugar,  **C"  of  chocolate 

%  t-cream  of  tartar  i  C-milk 

I  T-buttcr  I   t-vanilla 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  order  named,  and  cook  until  a  soft 
ball  is  formed  when  a  little  of  the  candy  is  dropped  in  a  glass 
of  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  allow  to  cool.  Do 
not  stir  while  cooling.  When  cool,  beat  until  creamy,  add 
vanilla  and  pour  into  a  well-buttered  pan.  Make  white  fudge 
and  pour  on  top.     When  cool  cut  into  squares. 

White  Fudge  (one  pound) 

3  C-sugar     1/3  t-cream  of  tartar 
Yi  C-milk  I  T-butter 

I  t-vanilla 

Mix  and  cook  the  same  as  chocolate  fudge. 

Bettina*s  Peanut  Fondant  (One  and  one-half  pound) 

2  C-"C"  sugar  i  T-butter 

Yz  C-milk  2/3  C-roasted,  shelled  peanuts 

Ya  t-cream    of   tartar       Y  t-vanilla 

Cook  the  "C"  sugar,  milk,  cream  of  tartar  and  butter  until 
a  soft  ball  is  formed  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  allow  it  to  cool.  Beat  until  thick  and  creamy  and  add 
the  nuts  and  vanilla.  Shape  into  a  loaf  two  inches  thick  and 
two  inches  wide.  When  cool  and  hard  enough  to  cut,  slice 
Into  one- fourth  inch  slices.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper  and  pack 
in  boxes. 


CHAPTER    CVII 
RUTH'S  PLANS 

^^  A  ND  so,  Bettina,"  said  Ruth,  sitting  down  on  the  high 

■^  ^  stool  in  Bettina's  neat  little  kitchen,  "Fred  says  we 
will  begin  the  house  early  in  the  spring — as  early  as  possible — 
and  be  married  in  May  or  June." 

"What  perfectly  splendid  news !"  said  Bettina.  "Vm  just 
as  glad  as  I  can  be !" 

"We've  waited  so  long,"  said  Ruth,  wistfully.  "Of  course, 
if  it  hadn't  been  for  the  war — it  did  interfere  so  with  business, 
you  know — we  would  have  been  married  last  spring." 

"I  know,"  said  Bettina,  sympathetically,  "but  you'll  be  all 
the  happier  because  you  have  waited." 

"I'll  want  you  to  help  me  a  great  deal  with  my  plans,"  said 
Ruth.  "I've  had  time  to  do  lots  of  sewing,  of  course,  but  I 
haven't  thought  anything  about  the  wedding  except  that  it  will 
be  a  quiet  one.  And  I  want  to  ask  you  so  much  about  house 
furnishings — curtains,  and  all  that." 

"I'd  love  to  help !"  cried  Bettina  with  enthusiasm.  "There 
isn't  anything  that  is  such  fun.     Oh,  Ruth !" 

"Gracious  me!  What?"  cried  Ruth,  for  Bettina  had  jumped 
up  suddenly. 

"Poor  Ruth,"  laughed  Bettina,  "I  didn't  mean  to  frighten 
you.  I  forgot  my  cake,  that  was  all,  and  I  was  afraid  it  had 
burned.  But  it  hasn't.  A  minute  longer  though — you  know  a 
chocolate  cake  does  burn  so  easily.  But  it's  all  right.  How- 
ever, you  must  admit  that  I  did  pretty  well  not  to  burn  it 
while  I  was  listening  to  wedding  plans !" 

339 


340    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

That  night  Bettina  served  for  dinner : 

Swiss   Steak  Mashed   Sweet   Potatoes 

Creamed  Cauliflower 

Bread  Butter 

Chocolate  Nougat  Cake 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Swiss  Steak   (Three  portions) 

I  lb.   of  round   steak  two-thirds  Yb,  t-pepper 

of  an  inch  thick  3^  C-water 
5  T-flour  I  T-onion 

I  bay  leaf  2  cloves 

y^  t-salt  I  T-bacon  fat 

Wipe  the  steak  with  a  damp  cloth,  trim  the  edges  to  remove 
any  gristle,  and  pound  the  flour  into  the  meat,  using  a  side 
of  a  heavy  plate  for  the  pounding.  This  breaks  up  the  ten- 
dons of  the  meat.  Place  the  bacon  fat  in  a  frying-pan  and 
when  hot,  add  the  meat.  Brown  thoroughly  on  each  side. 
Lower  the  flame.  Add  the  bay  leaf,  salt,  pepper,  onion  and 
water.  Cover  with  a  lid  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for  one 
and  a  half  hours.  More  water  may  be  needed  if  the  gravy 
boils  down.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat  when  serving.  This 
recipe  is  good  for  the  fireless. 

Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes   (Two  portions) 

3  good-sized  sweet     H  t-salt 

potatoes  I  T-butter 

2  C-water  2  T-milk 

J4  t-paprika 

Wash  the  potatoes  and  remove  any  bad  places.  Add  the 
water,  and  cook  gently  until  tender.  Drain,  and  peel  while 
still  hot,  by  holding  the  potatoes  on  the  end  of  a  fork.  Mash 
with  a  spoon  or  a  potato  masher,  adding  the  salt,  butter,  milk 
and  paprika.  Beat  one  minute.  Pile  lightly  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  min- 
utes until  a  light  brown. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  341 

Chocolate  Nougat  Cake 

4  T-butter  i  t^g 

2/3  C-sugar  3/2   C-milk 

2  squares  of  chocolate  i  1/3  C-flour 
2  T-sugar  2  t-baking  powder 

2  T-water  ^  t-soda 

5^  t-vanilla 

Cook  the  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  water  and  chocolate  to- 
gether for  one  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Cream  the  butter, 
add  the  sugar,  the  whole  ^gg  and  the  flour,  baking  powder  and 
soda  sifted  together.  Add  the  vanilla.  Beat  two  minutes. 
Pour  into  two  square  layer-cake  pans  prepared  with  waxed 
paper.  Bake  twenty-two  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Choco- 
late cakes  burn  easily  and  they  should  be  carefully  watched 
while  baking. 

Ice  with  White  Mountain  Cream  Icing. 


CHAPTER  CVIII 
A  LUNCHEON  FOR  THREE 

^^/^H,    Bettina,   what   a   perfectly   charming   table!"   ex- 

^^  claimed  Alice,  while  her  guest  from  New  York,  in 
whose  honor  Bettina  was  giving  the  little  luncheon,  declared 
that  she  had  never  seen  a  prettier  sight. 

"But  it's  your  very  own  Christmas  gift  to  me  that  makes 
it  so,"  declared  Bettina,  with  flushed  cheeks.  For  Alice's 
deft  fingers  had  fashioned  the  rose  nut  cups  (now  holding 
candied  orange  peel),  and  the  rose  buds  in  the  sunset  shades 
in  the  center  of  the  table.  "They  are  almost  more  real  than 
real  ones !  I  can  scarcely  believe  that  they  are  made  of  crepe 
paper." 

The  square  luncheon  cloth  on  the  round  table  was  of  linen, 
decorated  with  a  cross-stitch  design  in  the  same  sunset  shades, 
so  that  the  table  was  all  in  pink  and  white.  A  French  basket 
enameled  in  ivory  color  held  the  rose  buds,  and  another  Christ- 
mas gift  to  Bettina  was  the  flat  ivory  basket  filled  with  light 
rolls.  The  luncheon  napkins  matched  the  luncheon  cloth,  as 
the  guests  noted,  and  "The  menu  matches  everything  else!" 
exclaimed  Alice. 

"I'm  glad  you  like  it,"  said  Bettina.  "I  have  eaten  chicken 
a  la  king  often  at  hotels  and  restaurants,  but  until  recently  it 
never  occurred  to  me  to  make  it  myself.  And  it  isn't  difficult 
to  make  either." 

"You  must  give  me  the  recipe,"  said  Alice.  For  luncheon 
Bettina  served : 

342 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  343 

Chicken  a  la  King  Toast 

i-ight   Rolls  Butter 

Bettina  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

Cheese  Wafers 

Strawberry  Sherbet  Hickory  Nut  Cake 

Coffee 

Candied  Orange  Peel 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Chicken  a  la  King  (Three  portions) 


2/3  C-cold,  cooked  chicken,  diced 

2  T-flour 

3  T-butter 

VA   C-milk 

I  T-green  pepper,  cut  fine 

Ya  t-salt 

I  T-pimento,  cut  fine 

I  egg-yolk,  beaten 

Ys  t-celery  salt 

3  slices  of  toast 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  green  pepper,  cook  slowly  for  two 
minutes,  and  then  add  the  flour.  Mix  well  and  add  the  milk 
slowly.  Cook  until  creamy.  Add  the  celery  salt  and  the  salt. 
When  very  hot,  add  the  beaten  egg-yolk.  Mix  well,  and  add 
the  chicken  and  pimento.  Reheat.  Serve  very  hot  on  hot 
toast.  (Do  not  cook  the  sauce  any  longer  than  absolutely 
necessary  after  the  egg-yolk  is  added.) 

Bettina  Salad  (Three  portions) 

3  slices  of  pineapple  6  halves  of  nut  meats 

3  halves  of  pears  3  T-salad  dressing 

6  marshmallows  3  T-whipped  cream 

3  maraschino  cherries  3  pieces  of  lettuce 

Wash  the  lettuce  and  arrange  on  salad  plates.  Lay  a  slice 
of  pineapple  on  the  lettuce  and  half  a  pear,  the  hollow  side  up, 
on  the  pineapple.  Fill  the  cavity  of  the  pear  with  salad  dress- 
ing, and  place  one  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  on  top  of  the 
salad  dressing.  Arrange  two  nut-halves,  two  marshmallows 
and  one  cherry  attractively  on  each  portion.     Serve  very  cold, 


Hickory  Nut  Cake 

1/3  C-butter 
iy2  C-sugar 
2  eggs 
Y2  C-chopped  hickory 

nut  meats 
Y2  t-lemon 

4  t-baking 
2  C-flour 
^  C-milk 
Y2  t-vanilla 
extract 

powder 

344*    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add  the 
egg-yolks,  the  nut  meats,  and  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
sifted  together.  Then  add  the  milk,  vanilla  and  lemon  ex- 
tract. Beat  vigorously  for  two  minutes.  Add  the  whites 
stiffly  beaten.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into  two  layer-cake 
pans  prepared  with  buttered  paper.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.     Ice  with  confectioner's  icing. 

Bettina's    Confectioner's    Icing 

2  T-cream  J^  t-vanilla  extract 

1/2  t-lemon    extract       i  C-powdered   sugar 

Mix  the  cream  and  extracts.  Gradually  add  the  powdered 
sugar  sifted  through  a  strainer.  Add  enough  sugar  to  form 
a  creamy  icing  which  will  easily  spread  upon  the  cake.  (More 
than  a  cup  of  sugar  may  be  needed.) 


CHAPTER  CIX 
THE  DIXONS  COME  TO  DINNER 

^^QHALL  I  open  this  jar  of  grapefruit  marmalade?"  asked 

^   Charlotte,  who  was  helping  Bettina  to  prepare  dinner. 

"Yes,  Charlotte,  if  you  will." 

**How  nice  it  is,  Bettina !  How  long  do  you  cook  it  before 
you  add  the  sugar?" 

"Well,  that  depends  altogether  on  the  fruit.  Sometimes  the 
rind  is  so  much  tougher  than  at  other  times.  You  cook  it  until 
it's  very  tender,  then  add  the  sugar  and  cook  until  it  jells." 

"There's  another  thing  I'd  like  to  ask  you,  Bettina.  How 
on  earth  do  you  cut  the  fruit  in  thin  slices  ?  Isn't  it  very  diffi- 
cult to  do  ?" 

"Not  with  a  sharp  knife.  I  place  the  fruit  on  a  hardwood 
board,  and  then  if  my  knife  is  as  sharp  as  it  ought  to  be,  it 
isn't  at  all  difficult  to  cut  it  thin." 

"Well,  perhaps  I  haven't  had  a  sharp  enough  knife.  Oh, 
Bettina,  what  delicious  looking  cake  !    Is  it  fruit  cake  ?" 

"It's  called  date  loaf  cake.  It  has  nuts  in  it,  too,  but  no 
butter.  I  always  bake  it  in  a  loaf  cake  pan  prepared  with 
waxed  paper.  Bob  is  very  fond  of  it.  I  think  it's  very  good 
served  with  afternoon  tea." 

"I  should  think  it  might  be." 

"Tonight,  though,  I  am  serving  just  sliced  oranges  with  it.'* 

"That  will  be  a  delicious  dessert,  I  think.  Listen!  Is  that 
Bob  and  Frank  coming  in?" 

345 


346     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Roast  Beef  Browned  Potatoes 

Gravy 

Bettina's  Jelly  Pickle 

Bread  Grapefruit  Marmalade 

Date  Loaf  Cake      Sliced  Oranges 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bettina's  Jelly  Pickle   (Four  portions) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin  2  T-sweet  pickles,  chopped  fine 

4  T-cold  water  i  T-olives,  chopped  fine 

^  C-vinegar  from  a  jar  of  sweet  i  T-spiced  peach,  chopped  fine 

pickles  I  T-pickled  melon  rind 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  cold  water  for  ten  minutes.  Heat  the 
vinegar  and  when  very  hot  pour  into  the  gelatin  mixture.  Stir 
until  dissolved.  When  partially  congealed  so  that  the  fruit  will 
not  stay  on  the  top,  add  the  pickles,  olives,  peaches  and  rind. 
Pour  into  a  well-moistened  layer  mould  or  four  small  ones.  Set 
in  a  cold  place  one  hour.     Unmould. 

Grapefruit   Marmalade    (One   and   one-half   pints) 

6  grapefruit     i  orange 

4  lemons  i  lb.  sugar  for  each  lb.  of  fruit 

6  C-cold  water  for  each  lb.  of  fruit 

Wash  the  grapefruit,  lemons  and  orange  carefully.  Cut 
each  in  quarters.  Slice  the  quarters  through  the  rind  and  pulp, 
making  thin  slices.  Weigh  the  fruit,  and  for  each  pound  allow 
six  cups  of  cold  water.  Allow  to  stand  with  the  water  on 
the  fruit  for  twenty-four  hours.  Let  all  boil  gently  until  the 
rind  is  very  tender.  No  particular  test  can  be  given  for  this, 
as  some  fruit  is  much  tougher  than  others.  Set  aside  for  four 
hours.  Drain  off  the  liquid.  Weigh  the  fruit  mixture,  and 
for  each  pound  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Let  cook  slowly  until 
the  mixture  thickens  or  "jellies"  when  tried  on  a  dish.  Be 
careful  not  to  get  the  mixture  too  thick,  as  it  will  thicken  some- 
what more  upon  cooling. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  347 

Date  Loaf  Cake   (Twelve  pieces) 

1  C-flour  2  eggs  ^ 

2  t-baking  powder       i  t-vanilla 

14  t-salt  I  C-dates,  cut  fine 

I  C-sugar  14  C-nut  meats,  cut  fine 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  thoroughly. 
Add  the  dates,  nut  meats  and  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  the 
egg-yolks  and  mix  well.  Beat  the  egg-whites  until  very  stiff. 
Cut  and  fold  these  into  the  mixture.  Pour  into  a  loaf  cake 
pan  prepared  with  waxed  paper.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for 
fifty  minutes. 


FEBRUARY. 

Cold  and  snowy  February 
Does  seem  slow  and  trying,  very. 
Still,  a  month  made  gay  by  Cupid 
Never  could  be  wholly  stupid. 


CHAPTER  CX 
A  STEAMED  PUDDING 


(( 


THIS  was  a  splendid  din- 
ner, Bettina,"  said  Ruth, 
as  the  two  of  them  were  carrying 
the  dishes  into  the  kitchen  and 
Fred  and  Bob  were  deep  in  con- 
versation in  the  living-room. 
"Such  a  delicious  dessert !  Suet 
pudding,  wasn't  it?  I  couldn't 
guess  all  that  was  in  it." 

"Just  a  steamed  fig  pudding, 
Ruth.    The  simplest  thing  in  the 
world !" 

"Simple?  But  don't  you  have  to  use  a  steamer  to  make  it 
in,  and  isn't  that  awfully  complicated?  I've  always  imagined 
so. 

"You  don't  need  to  use  a  steamer  at  all.  I  steamed  this  in 
my  fireless  cooker,  in  a  large  baking  powder  can.  I  filled  the 
buttered  can  about  two-thirds  full,  and  set  it  in  boiling  water 
that  came  less  than  half  way  up  the  side  of  the  can.  Of  course, 
the  cover  of  the  can  or  the  mould  must  be  screwed  on  tight. 
And  the  utensil  in  which  it  is  steamed  must  be  covered.  I 
used  one  of  the  utensils  that  fit  in  the  fireless,  of  course,  and  I 
brought  the  water  to  a  boil  on  the  stove  so  that  I  was  sure  it 
was  boiling  vigorously  when  I  set  it  in  the  cooker  on  the  siz- 
zlinz  hot  stone.  You  see  it  is  very  simple.  In  fact,  I  think 
steaming  anything  is  very  easy,  for  you  don't  have  to  keep 
watching  it  as  you  would  if  it  were  baking  in  the  oven,  and 
basting  it,  or  changing  the  heat.'* 

349 


350     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"We  haven't  a  cooker,  you  know.  Could  I  make  a  steamed 
pudding  that  same  way  on  the  stove?" 

"Yes,  indeed  the  very  same  way.  Just  set  the  buttered  can 
filled  two-thirds  full  in  a  larger  covered  utensil  holding  boil- 
ing water.    Keep  the  water  boiling  all  the  time." 

"I  shall  certainly  try  it  tomorrow,  Bettina!" 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served : 

Breaded  Veal  Creamed  Potatoes 

Browned  Sauce 

Spinach  with   Hard   Cooked   Eggs 

Bread  Butter 

Spiced  Peaches 

Fig  Pudding  Foamy  Sauce 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Breaded  Veal   (Four  portions) 

1  lb.  veal  round  steak,  cut  one-half  an  inch   thick 
I  T-egg   (either   the  white  or  the  yolk) 

1  T-water 

2/3  C-cracker  crumbs,  or  dry  bread  crumbs 

2  T-lard 
%  t-salt 

I  T-butter 
%  t-paprika 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,  and  cut  into  four  pieces. 
Mix  the  Qgg,  water,  salt  and  paprika,  and  dip  each  piece  of 
meat  into  the  tgg  mixture.  Roll  in  the  crumbs  and  pat  the 
crumbs  into  the  meat.  Place  the  lard  in  the  frying-pan,  and 
when  hot,  add  the  meat.  Brown  well  on  one  side,  and  then 
turn,  allowing  the  other  side  to  become  the  same  even  color. 
Lower  the  flame  under  the  meat,  and  cook  thirty  minutes, 
keeping  the  pan  covered.  When  the  meat  has  cooked  twenty' 
five  minutes,  add  the  butter  to  lend  flavor  to  the  lard. 

Browned  Gravy  (Four  portions) 

1  T-butter      ^  t-salt 

2  T-flour        Vz  C-wattr 

K  C-milk 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  351 

Remove  the  breaded  veal  from  the  pan,  and  place  on  a  hot 
flatter.  (Keep  in  a  warm  place.)  Loosen  all  the  small  pieces 
of  crackers  and  meat  (if  there  are  any)  from  the  bottom  of 
the  pan.  If  there  is  no  fat  left,  add  butter.  Allow  the  fat  to 
get  hot,  and  add  flour  and  salt.  Mix  well  with  the  heated  fat, 
and  allow  to  brown.  Stir  constantly,  and  add  the  water.  Mix 
well,  and  add  one-fourth  cup  of  milk.  Allow  to  cook  one 
minute,  stirring-  constantly.  If  a  thinner  sauce  is  desired,  add 
another  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  milk.  If  a  thicker  sauce  is 
desired,  allow  to  cook  for  two  minutes. 

Bettina's  Steamed  Fig  Pudding   (Four  portions) 


I 

C-flour               y2   C-molasses 

H 

t-soda                 y2   C-milk 

H 

t-ginger            H  C-suet,  chopped  fine 

2/2> 

t-cinnamon     1/3  C-chopped  figs 

K 

t-nutmeg        1/3  C-stoned  raisins 

Y2  t-lemon  extract 

Mix  the  flour,  soda,  ginger,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  suet. 
Add  the  figs,  raisins,  molasses  and  milk.  Stir  well.  Add  the 
lemon  extract.  Fill  a  well-buttered  pudding  mould  two-thirds 
full.  Steam  an  hour  and  a  half,  with  the  water  boiling.  Serve 
hot  with  foamy  sauce. 

Foamy  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

I  ^KS  V2  C-hot  water 

V2  C-sugar  I  T-lemon  juice  or  i  t-lemon  ex- 

tract 

Beat  the  ^gg  vigorously.  Add  the  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add 
the  hot  water  and  stir  vigorously.  Add  the  lemon  juice.  Serve 
(This  sauce  may  be  reheated  if  desired.) 


CHAPTER  CXI 
ON  VALENTINE'S  DAY 

<tT>  OB,  the  flowers  are  lovely!"  said  Bettina,  looking  again 

-D  at  the  brilliant  tulips  on  the  dinner  table.  "They  make 
this  a  real  valentine  dinner,  although  there  is  nothing  festive 
about  it.  I  had  intended  to  plan  something  special,  but  I  went 
to  a  valentine  luncheon  at  Mary's,  and  stayed  so  late " 

"A  valentine  luncheon  ?  With  red  hearts  everywhere,  I  sup- 
pose ?" 

"Yes,  everything  heart-shaped,  and  in  red,  too,  as  far  as 
possible.  Mary  had  twelve  guests  at  one  large  round  table. 
Of  course,  there  were  strings  and  strings  of  red  hearts  of  va- 
rious sizes  decorating  the  table — not  a  very  new  idea,  of 
course,  but  so  effective.  And  everything  tasted  so  good ;  cream 
of  tomato  soup,  the  best  stuffed  tenderloin  with  mushroom 
sauce  (I  must  find  out  how  that  is  made),  and  the  best  sweet 
potato  croquettes!" 

"Sweet  potato  croquettes  ?    That's  a  new  one  on  me !" 

"I'll  have  to  try  them  some  time  soon.  And  Mary  had  peas 
in  heart-shaped  baking  powder  biscuits — the  cunningest  you 
ever  saw! — heart-shaped  date  bread  sandwiches  with  her 
salad,  and  heart-shaped  ice  cream  with  individual  heart  cakes." 

"That  was  Valentine's  day  with  a  vengeance ;  wasn't  it  ?" 

"Yes,  but  it  was  lovely.  Bob !" 

That  night  Bettina  served : 

Broiled   Steak  Baked   Potatoes 

Macaroni  with  Tomatoes  and  Green  Peppers 

Bread  Butter 

Cornstarch   Fruit   Pudding 

Cherry  Sauce 

Coffee 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  353 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Macaroni,  Tomatoes  and  Green  Peppers   (Three  portions) 

1/3  C-macaroni  54  t-celery  salt 

3  C-water  %  t-onion  salt 
I  t-salt  3  T-cheese,  cut  fine 

I   C-canned  tomatoes  2/3  C-meat  stock  or  milk 
3  T-chopped   green   pepper       J4  C-crumbs 
li  t-salt  I  T-butter 

Boil  the  water,  add  the  salt.  Add  the  macaroni  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Boil  until  tender  (about  fifteen  minutes)  and  drain. 
Butter  a  baking  dish.  Add  a  layer  of  macaroni,  a  layer  of 
tomatoes  and  some  green  pepper.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  celery 
and  onion  salt.  Add  the  cheese,  and  continue  with  the  layers 
until  the  dish  is  full.  If  available,  use  meat  stock,  if  not,  milk. 
Pour  the  liquid  over  the  mixture.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the 
crumbs  and  place  on  the  top  of  the  food.  Place  the  dish  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  allow  to  bake  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until 
brown. 

Corn  Starch  Fruit  Pudding  (Three  portions) 

1/2   C-water  y%  t-salt 

Yz   C-cherry  juice       3  T-sugar 
3  T-corn  starch       i  egg-yolk 
I  egg-white 

Mix  thoroughly  the  corn  starch,  sugar  and  salt.  Gradually 
add  the  cold  water  and  then  the  juice.  Cook  over  hot  water 
until  the  mixture  becomes  quite  thick.  Add  the  egg-yolk.  Mix 
well,  cool  slightly  and  add  the  egg-white  stiffly  beaten.  Pour 
into  a  well-moistened  custard  mould.  Allow  to  stand  for 
half  an  hour  or  more.     Serve  with  cherry  sauce. 

Cherry  Sauce  (Three  portions) 


^   C-water  ^  t-salt 

I  T-flour  2  T-sugar 

J4   C-cherries,   cut   fine 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  sugar.  Add  slowly  the  cherry  juice 
and  water.  Cook  two  minutes.  Add  the  cherries  and  extract. 
Serve  hot  over  the  cold  pudding. 


CHAPTER  CXII 
RUTH  GIVES  A  DINNER  FOR  FOUR 

BETTINA  and  Bob  arrived  at  half-past  six,  as  Ruth  had 
requested. 

"She  wouldn't  let  me  come  earlier.  Bob,"  explained  Bet- 
tina  as  they  rang  the  bell.  "I  wanted  to  help  her,  you  know, 
but  she  said  her  father  and  mother  were  out  of  town  and  Fred 
was  to  be  the  only  guest  besides  ourselves,  so  she  was  sure  that 
she  could  manage  alone.    There  she  is  now !" 

But  it  was  not  Ruth  after  all. 

"Why,  Fred ;  hello !"  said  Bob.  "Did  you  come  early  to  as- 
sist the  cook?" 

"I  did,"  said  Fred,  "but  she  informed  me  at  once  that  she 
wanted  no  inexperienced  'help'  around.  So  I've  been  sitting  in 
the  living-room  alone  for  the  last  half  hour.  She  did  say  that  I 
might  answer  the  bell,  but  as  for  doing  anything  else — well, 
she  was  positively  rude!" 

And  Fred  raised  his  voice  so  that  its  penetrating  tones  would 
reach  the  kitchen.  "The  worst  of  it  all  is  that  I've  been  hungry 
as  well  as  lonesome.  I  might  endure  sitting  alone  in  the  living- 
room  if  I  hadn't  gone  without  lunch  today  in  anticipation  of 
this  banquet.    And  now '* 

"Shame  on  you,  Fred!'*  interrupted  Ruth,  coming  in  with 
flushed  cheeks  above  her  dainty  white  apron.  "Did  he  receive 
you  properly  ?" 

"I  leave  it  to  you,  Bettina,  to  say  that  I've  received  harsh 
treatment !  Here  I  went  and  purchased  four  good  seats  for 
the  Duchess  theatre  tonight." 

354 


With  Bettinas  Best  Becipes  355 

•'You  did,  Fred,"  cried  Ruth.  **Why,  you  dear  boy !  For 
that,  ril  see  that  you  are  certainly  fed  well !  Dinner  is  ready, 
people !    Will  you  walk  into  the  dining-room  ?" 

Ruth's  dinner  consisted  of : 

Pigs  in  Blankets  Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Escalloped  Egg  Plant 

Bread  Butter 

Date  Pudding  Cream 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pigs  in  Blankets   (Four  portions) 

I  C-oysters  ^  t-salt 

8  slices  thin  bacon     %  t-paprika 

Remove  the  rind  from  long,  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Place  two 
or  more  oysters  upon  each  slice  of  bacon.  Sprinkle  the  oysters 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Roll  up  and  tie  with  a  white  string. 
Saute  in  a  hot  frying-pan  until  nicely  browned.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes  (Six  portions) 

6  large  sweet  potatoes     y2  C-water 
I  C-brown  sugar  i  t-salt 

I  T-butter 

Wash  the  potatoes  thoroughly.  Cook  in  boiling  water  until 
tender  when  pierced  with  a  knitting  needle.  Drain  and  peel 
when  cool  enough  to  handle.  Cut  in  slices  lengthwise,  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  thick.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar, 
butter  and  water  five  minutes.  Lay  the  potatoes  in  a  pan, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them.  Cook  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  the  potatoes  are  browned,  basting  fre- 
quently. 

Escalloped  Egg  Plant  (Six  portions) 

2  C-cubed  egg-plant       y^  t-salt 

3  T-butter  %.  t-pepper 
3  T-flour                         13^  C-milk 

Remove  the  skin  from  the  egg-plant,  and  cut  into  slices  a 


356     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  the  sHces  with  salt,  pile 
one  above  the  other,  and  place  a  weight  on  the  top  to  extract 
the  juice.  Allow  to  stand  one  hour.  Wash  off,  and  cut  into 
quarter  of  an  inch  cubes.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt 
and  pepper.  Mix  well,  gradually  add  the  milk  and  cook  two 
minutes.  Add  the  egg-plant  and  pour  the  whole  mixture 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

Date  Pudding  (Four  portions) 

1  C-flour  14.  t-salt 

2  t-baking  powder         i  tgg 

J4  C-"C"  sugar  1/3  C-milk 

10  dates,  cut  fine  J^  t-vanilla 

3  T-melted  butter 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  "C"  sugar,  dates  and  salt. 
Add  the  tggy  milk  and  vanilla.  Stir  vigorously  and  beat  one 
minute.  Add  the  melted  butter.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  serve  hot  with  cream. 


CHAPTER  CXm 
ALICE  PRACTISES  ECONOMY 

i^/^H,  Bettina,"  said  Alice,  delightedly,  as  she  opened  the 

^^  door.  "I'm  so  glad  to  see  you!  I've  just  been  think- 
ing about  you !    What  do  you  suppose  I'm  doing?" 

"Getting  dinner?  That  is  what  I  must  be  doing  very  soon. 
I  stopped  in  for  only  a  minute  on  my  way  home." 

"I  am  getting  dinner,  and  I  want  to  tell  you  that  it  is  a  very 
economical  dinner.  And  it's  going  to  be  good,  too.  I  thought 
and  thought  about  your  advice,  and  decided  to  practise  it.  Sp 
I  searched  through  all  my  cook  books  for  the  recipes  I  wanted, 
and  finally  decided  on  this  particular  menu.  But,  Bettina, 
now  I  can  tell  you  the  flaw  in  your  system  of  economy  1" 

"What  is  that  ?    Harry  doesn't  like  it  ?" 

"Goodness  no!  Harry  was  delighted  with  the  idea!  My 
argument  is  this :  It's  going  to  take  me  an  endless  amount  of 
time  to  plan  economical  meals  that  are  also  good,  time  that 
I  ought  to  spend  in  polishing  silver  and  making  calls,  and 
sewing  on  buttons,  and " 

"I  don't  believe  it'll  be  as  bad  as  you  think,  Alice,  dear," 
laughed  Bettina.  "For  instance,  if  this  meal  tonight  is  good 
and  economical,  and  Harry  is  pleased,  don't  forget  the  com- 
bination, but  write  it  down  in  a  note-book.  You  can  repeat 
the  menu  in  two  or  three  weeks,  and  you  have  no  idea  how 
soon  you  will  collect  the  best  combinations,  and  ideas  of  econ- 
omy !    Tell  me  what  you  are  having  tonight." 

That  night  Alice  served : 

Baked  Eggs 

Potatoes  Escalloped  with  Bacon 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  Butter 

Peach  Cup  with  Peach  Sauce 

Tea 

357 


358     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

THE    RECIPES   ALICE    USED 

Baked  Eggs  (Two  portions) 

2  eggs  I  T-butter 

Yz  C-milk  14  t-salt 

2  T-soft  bread  crumbs     %  t-paprika 

Butter  two  individual  moulds,  and  break  an  egg  into  each. 
Mix  the  salt  and  pepper  in  the  milk,  and  pour  half  of  the 
mixture  over  each  egg.  Melt  the  butter,  and  add  the  crumbs. 
Place  the  buttered  crumbs  on  top  of  each  egg.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  twenty  minutes.     Serve  in  the  moulds. 

Potatoes  Escalloped  with  Bacon  (Two  portions) 

3  medium-sized   potatoes     14  t-paprika 
3  slices  of  bacon  2  T-flour 

J4  t-salt  I  C-milk 

Broil  the  bacon,  cut  each  piece  in  three  parts.  Butter  a 
casserole  and  place  in  it  a  layer  of  peeled  sliced  potatoes. 
Sprinkle  part  of  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika  over  the  potatoes, 
and  add  three  pieces  of  bacon.  Continue  in  this  manner  until 
the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  the  milk  over  the  contents,  and  bake 
forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Peach  Cup  (Two  portions) 

4  halves  of  canned  peaches,  i^  t-baking  powder 

sweetened  %  t-salt 
I  T-egg  I  t-melted  butter 

3  T-milk  %  t-vanilla 
2/3  C-flour  2  T-sugar 

Mash  two  peach  halves,  add  the  egg,  milk,  vanilla,  melted 
butter,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Mix  thoroughly.  Place 
a  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  in  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered 
baking  cup.  Add  a  peach  half,  and  cover  with  the  batter. 
Sprinkle  one  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar  on  the  top  and 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Turn  from  the  cups 
and  serve  hot  with  peach  sauce. 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  359 

Peach  Sauce  (Two  portions) 


2/3  C-peach 

juice 

I  T-flour 

I  T-lemon 

juice 

^  t-butter 

^  t-salt 

Mix  one  tablespoon  of  the  peach  juice  with  the  flour.  Grad- 
ually add  the  rest  of  the  peach  and  lemon  juice.  Add  the  salt 
Cook  one  minute.     Add  the  butter.     Serve  hot. 


CHAPTER  CXIV 
A  COMPANY  DINNER  FOR  BOB 

i^QOME  dinner  tonight,"  remarked  Bob,  as  he  sat  down 

*^  at  the  table.  "Were  you  expecting  company  that  didn't 
show  up?" 

"No,  indeed,"  laughed  Bettina.  "I  expected  just  you  and 
nobody  else.  But  maybe  I  did  cook  a  little  more  than  usual. 
You  see  I  was  over  at  Alice's  this  afternoon  inspecting  her 
list  of  next  week's  menus.  You  know  she  is  trying  to  econo- 
mize, and  she  is  really  doing  it,  but  in  spite  of  economy,  Harry 
is  having  elaborate  meals.  I  do  hope  he  appreciates  it.  Nearly 
all  of  her  dinners  are  three-course  affairs,  most  carefully 
planned  to  look  like  'the  real  thing'  as  she  calls  an  ex- 
pensive dinner.  I  tell  her  that  hers  are  the  real  thing,  only 
almost  too  elaborate.  You  see,  she  is  trying  to  disguise  her 
economy  so  that  Harry  won't  miss  the  first  meals  she  gave 
him.  She  makes  me  almost  afraid  that  I'm  not  feeding  you 
enough." 

"No  danger  of  that,"  said  Bob,  emphatically.  "But  what 
are  all  these  economical  things  she  is  serving?" 

"Wait,  I  wrote  some  of  them  down.    Listen.    Here  is  one: 

Peanut  Croquettes  Olive  Sauce 

Duchess  Potatoes  Creamed  Beets 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Orange  Marmalade 

Pea  and  Cheese  Salad  Wafers 

Apricot  Ice  Sponge   Cake 

"How's  that?    And  here's  another: 

360 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  361 

Creamed  Tuna 
Stuffed    Potatoes  Mock    Egg    Plant 

Whole  Wheat  Muffins  Grape  Jelly- 

Russian  Salad 
Fairy  Gingerbread        Hard  Sauce 

"Well,"  said  Bob,  "they  sound  good,  but  not  so  good  as  the 
dinners  you  give  me." 

That  evening  Bettina  served : 

Escalloped  Salmon  Baked  Potatoes 

Creamed  Cabbage 

Egg  Rolls  Currant  Jelly 

Chocolate  Kisses 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Escalloped  Salmon  (Two  portions) 

2/3  C-flaked  salmon  l  hard-cooked  egg 

I  T-butter  I  t-lemon  juice 

I  T-flour  3  T-chopped  sour  pickle 

2/3  C-milk  14  t-minced  parsley 

H  t-salt  4  T-cracker  crumbs 

%  t-paprika  i  T-butter 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  mix  well.  Add  the  milk 
and  cook  one  minute.  Add  the  salmon,  salt,  paprika,  egg 
diced,  lemon  juice,  pickle  and  parsley.  Mix  thoroughly  with 
a  silver  fork,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  mixture  get  pasty. 
Pour  into  a  well-buttered  baking  dish,  melt  the  butter  and  add 
the  crumbs.  Place  buttered  crumbs  on  the  top.  Bake  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Egg  Rolls  (Two  portions) 

iH   C-flour  2  T-lard 

2  t-baking  powder       i  T-egg 

%  t-salt  H  C-milk 

For  the  Top 

I  T-milk     I  t-sugar 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cut  in  the 
fat  with  a  knife.  Add  the  egg  and  milk,  using  the  knife  to 
make  a  soft  dough.    Toss  onto  a  floured  board.    Roll  out  to 


362    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

a  thickness  of  one-fourth  an  inch.  Cut  out  with  a  round 
cooky  cutter,  three  inches  in  diameter.  Brush  over  with  milk. 
Fold  over  like  pocket-book  rolls.  Place  in  a  tin  pan  and  brush 
over  the  top  with  one  tablespoon  of  milk  to  which  has  been 
added  one  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes. 

Chocolate  Kisses  (Fourteen  kisses) 

1  C-powdered    sugar         2  ounces  melted  chocolate 

2  egg-whites  I  t-cinnamon 
I  C-fine   bread   crumbs     i  t-vanilla 

I  t-baking  powder 

Beat  the  egg-whites  very  stiffly.  Add  very  carefully  the 
powdered  sugar.  Cut  and  fold  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  the 
baking  powder.  Add  the  chocolate,  cinnamon  and  vanilla. 
Drop  the  mixture  from  the  tip  of  a  spoon,  two  inches  apart 
upon  a  well-greased  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twelve  to 
fifteen  minutes. 


CHAPTER  CXV 
SUPPER  AFTER  THE  THEATRE 

i<1^T  OW,  Bob,  you  start  the  fire  in  the  fireplace  while  I 

i\l     go  into  the  kitchen  and  get  a  little  lunch." 

''Mrs.  Bob,"  said  Donald,  an  old  school-friend  of  Bob's, 
'T  don't  want  you  to  do  any  such  thing !  We  don't  need  any 
lunch !    Stay  in  here  and  we'll  all  talk." 

"You'll  talk  all  the  better  for  something  to  eat,"  said  Bet- 
tina,  ''and  so  will  Bob.    Won't  you,  Bob?" 

"Well,"  said  Bob,  with  a  grin,  'T  will  admit  that  coming 
home  in  the  cold  has  given  me  something  of  an  appetite. 
Then  too,  I'll  tell  you,  Donald,  that  Bettina's  after-theatre 
suppers  aren't  to  be  lightly  refused !  Yes,  on  the  whole,  I 
think  we'd  better  have  the  supper.  We  couldn't  get  you  for 
dinner  tonight,  and  you're  leaving  so  early  in  the  morning 
that  you  see  you  won't  have  had  any  real  meal  at  our  house 
at  all !" 

Meanwhile,  Bettina  was  busying  herself  with  the  little 
supper,  for  which  she  had  made  preparations  that  morning. 
When  she  had  creamed  the  oysters  and  placed  them  in  the 
ramekins,  she  popped  them  in  the  oven.  Next  she  put  on  the 
coffee  in  her  percolator,  and  placed  in  the  oven  with  the 
oysters  the  small  loaf  of  bran  bread  that  she  had  steamed 
that  morning.  '^Bob  likes  it  better  warm,"  she  said  to  herself. 

Then  she  arranged  her  tea-cart  with  plates,  cups,  silver, 
napkins'  and  peach  preserves,  not  forgetting  the  rice  parfait 
from  the  refrigerator. 

When  she  wheeled  the  little  supper  into  the  living  room. 
Bob  and  Donald  welcomed  her  with  delight.  "I  take  it  back; 
I  am  hungry  after  all !"  said  Donald. 

363 


864    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Bettina  served; 

Creamed  Oysters  in  Ramekins 

Steamed  Bran  Bread  Peach  Preserves 

Rice  Parfait 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed  Oysters  in  Ramekins  (Three  portions) 

1  doz.    oysters  iV^   C-milk 

2  T-butter  2  T-crumbs 

3  T-flour  2  t-butter 

54  t-salt  I  hard-cooked  egg 

J/^   t-paprika  2  t-chopped  parsley 

Heat  the  oysters  until  they  are  plump.  Drain.  Melt  the 
butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  well.  Add  the 
milk  slowly  and  cook  until  creamy.  (About  two  minutes.) 
Add  the  oysters,  and  place  one-third  of  the  mixture  in  each 
well-buttered  ramekin.  Melt  the  butter  (two  teaspoons)  and 
add  the  crumbs,  stirring  well.  Place  the  buttered  crumbs  on 
top  of  the  mixture  in  each  ramekin.  Brown  in  the  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  parsley,  and  garnish  with 
hard-cooked  ^gg  cut  in  slices. 

Steamed  Bran  Bread  (One  small  loaf) 

I   C-bran  4  T-raisins 

J/2   C-white    flour       2  T-chopped  nuts 
Yz  t-soda  I  T-sugar 

y^  t-salt  2  T-molasses 

I  t-baking  powder^   C-milk 
2  T-water 

Mix  the  bran,  flour,  soda,  baking  powder,  salt,  raisins  and 
nuts.  Add  the  molasses,  sugar,  milk  and  water.  Stir  well  for 
two  minutes.  Fill  a  well-buttered  mould  one-half  full  of  the 
mixture.  Cover  with  the  lid,  well-buttered,  and  steam  for  two 
hours.  The  steaming  may  be  done  in  the  fireless  cooker,  if 
desired. 

Rice  Parfait   (Three  portions) 

1  C-cooked  rice  2  T-chopped  nut  meats 
y2   C-hot  milk                         ^   C-brown  sugar 

2  C-cold  water  H  t-salt 

I  T-granulated    gelatin     5^  C-whipped  cream 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  365 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes.  Add  the 
hot  milk  and  allow  it  to  dissolve  thoroughly.  Add  the  sugar, 
salt,  nut  meats  and  rice,  and  mix  well.  When  thoroughly 
cooled,  add  the  whipped  cream.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered 
mould,  and  allow  to  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  two  hours.  Serve 
cold.     Whipped  cream  may  be  served  with  the  parfait  if  de-  j 

sired.  ^ 


CHAPTER  CXVI 
WASHINGTON'S  BIRTHDAY  PLANS 

t^  A^  OOD  bran  bread,"  said  Bob,  reaching  for  another  piece. 

vJ  "I  like  that  recipe,"  said  Bettina,  "and  it  is  so  easy 
to  make." 

"What  have  you  been  doing  all  day?"  Bob  asked,  "Cook- 
ing?" 

"No,  indeed.  Charlotte  was  here  this  afternoon  and  we 
made  plans  for  the  tea  we  are  going  to  give  at  her  house  on 
Washington's  birthday.  Oh,  Bob,  we  have  some  of  the  best 
ideas  for  it !  Our  refreshments  are  to  be  served  from  the  din- 
ing-room table,  you  know,  and  our  central  decoration  is  to  be 
a  three-cornered  black  hat  filled  with  artificial  red  cherries. 
Of  course  we'll  have  cherry  ice,  and  serve  cherries  in  the  tea, 
Russian  style.  The  salad  will  be  served  in  little  black  three- 
cornered  hats ;  these  filled  with  fruit  salad,  will  be  set  on  the 
table  and  each  guest  will  help  herself.  The  thin  bread  and 
butter  sandwiches  will  be  cut  in  hatchet  shape.  And — oh,  yes, 
I  forgot  the  cunningest  idea  of  all !  We'll  serve  tiny  gilt  hatch- 
ets stuck  in  tree-trunks  of  fondant  rolled  in  cocoanut  and 
toasted  brown.  Isn't  that  a  clever  plan?  Charlotte  saw  it 
done  once,  and  says  it  is  very  effective." 

"It  sounds  like  some  party!  And  I'll  feel  especially  en- 
thusiastic if  you  don't  forget  to  plan  for  one  guest  who  won  t 
appear — or  perhaps  I  should  say  two,  for  I  know  Frank  won't 
want  to  be  forgotten." 

For  dinner  that  night  Bob  and  Bettina  had: 

Corned  Beef  au  Gratin  Baked  Tomatoes 

Apple  Sauce 

Gluten   Bread  Butter 

Cream  Pie  Coffee 

Z66 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  367 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Corned  Beef  au  Gratin  (Three  portions) 

iH  C-milk        ^  2  T-butter 

Yz  slice  of  onion  i  egg 

1  piece    of    celery  i  t-salt 

2  T-flour  J4  t-paprika 

I  C-chopped  corned  beef 

Place  the  milk,  onion  and  celery  over  the  fire.  Allov^  to  get 
very  hot.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  let  stand  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  the  celery  and  onion  from  the  milk.  Melt  the  butter, 
add  the  flour.  Mix  v^ell  and  slowly  add  the  milk.  Cook  until 
the  consistency  of  white  sauce.  Add  the  tgg,  well  beaten,  the 
salt,  paprika,  and  beef.  Pour  into  well-buttered  individual 
dishes. 

Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes.  Re- 
move from  the  oven  and  allow  to  stand  two  minutes.  Re- 
move from  the  moulds  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Baked  Tomatoes  and  Cheese  (Three  portions) 

I  C-canned  tomatoes     ^  C-fresh  bread  crumbs 
^  t-salt  3  T-cheese,  cut  fine 

54  t-paprika  ^  C-cooked  celery 

I  T-butter 

Mix  the  tomatoes,  salt,  paprika,  cheese  and  celery.  Add 
half  the  bread  crumbs.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  baking  dish. 
Melt  the  butter,  add  the  remaining  crumbs  and  place  on  top 
of  the  mixture.    Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Gluten  Bread  (Ten  slices) 

I  C-gluten  flour  2  T-sugar 

VA  t-baking    powder  1/3  C-milk 

Ya.  t-salt  1/3  C-water 

Ya  C-bran  i  t-melted  butter 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  bran  and  sugar.  Add 
the  milk  and  water.  Beat  vigorously  for  one  minute  and 
then  add  the  butter.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  bread  pan  and 
bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER  CXVII 
AN  AFTERNOON  WITH  BETTINA 

WHEN  Bettina  pushed  her  tea  cart  Into  the  living-room, 
Alice  and  Ruth  laid  aside  the  mending  at  which  they 
had  been  busy. 

"What  delicious  toast,  Bettina !"  said  Alice,  taking  one  bite. 
"Why,  it  has  cinnamon  on  it !  And  sugar !  I  wondered  what 
on  earth  you  were  making  that  smelled  so  good,  and  this  is 
something  new  to  me !" 

"It  is  cinnamon  toast,''  said  Bettina,  "and  so  easy  to  make. 
I  was  busy  all  morning,  and  didn't  have  time  to  make  any- 
thing but  these  date  kisses  for  tea,  but  cinnamon  toast  can  be 
made  so  quickly  that  I  decided  to  serve  it." 

"I  like  orange  marmalade,  too,  Bettina,"  said  Alice.  "I 
wish  I  had  made  some.  I  have  spiced  peaches,  and  a  little 
jelly,  but  that  is  all.  Next  summer  I  intend  to  have  a  perfect 
orgy  of  canning.  Then  my  cupboard  will  be  even  better 
stocked  than  Bettina's — perhaps!  I  opened  a  jar  of  spiced 
peaches  last  evening  for  dinner,  and  what  do  you  think !  Harry 
ate  every  peach  in  the  jar !  I  had  expected  them  to  last  sev- 
eral days,  too." 

"I  hoped  you  saved  the  juice,"  said  Bettina. 

"I  did,  but  I  don't  know  why.  It  seemed  too  good  to  throw 
away,  somehow." 

"Have  you  ever  eaten  ham  cooked  in  the  juice  of  pickled 
peaches?  It's  delicious.  Just  cover  the  slice  of  ham  with  the 
juice  and  cook  it  in  the  oven  until  it  is  very  tender.  Then 
remove  it  from  the  juice  and  serve  it." 

"It  sounds  fine.    I'll  do  it  tomorrow." 

368 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  369 

That  afternoon  Bettina  served ; 

Cinnamon  Toast  Tea 

Orange  Marmalade 
Date  Kisses 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Cinnamon  Toast  (Six  portions) 

6  slices  of  stale  bread    1/3  C-powdered  sugar 
2  T-butter  H  t-cinnamon 

Make  a  delicate  brown  toast  and  butter  each  slice.  Mix  the 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  place  in  a  shaker.  Shake  the  de- 
sired quantities  of  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  the  hot  buttered 
toast.    Keep  in  a  warm  place  until  ready  to  serve. 

Bettina*s  Date  Kisses  (One  dozen) 

I  egg-white  %  t-baking  powder 

%  t-salt  54  C-chopped  dates 

14  C-powdered  sugar     %  C-chopped  nut  meats 
%  t-lemon  extract 

Add  the  salt  to  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  beat  the  egg-white 
very  stiff.  Then  add  the  sugar,  baking  powder,  nuts,  dates 
and  lemon  extract.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  onto  a  buttered 
pan.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  delicately  browned.  (About 
twenty-five  minutes.) 

Orange  Marmalade  (One  pint) 

3  oranges     5^  grapefruit 
2  lemons  Sugar 

Wash  thoroughly  the  rinds  of  the  fruits.  Weigh  the  fruit, 
and  slice  it  evenly.  To  each  pound  of  fruit,  add  one  quart  of 
cold  water.  Let  the  mixture  stand  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Cook  slowly  for  one  hour.  Drain.  Weigh  the  cooked  fruit, 
and  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Cook  with  the  sugar  for 
thirty  minutes,  or  until  it  stiffens  slightly  when  tried  on  a  dish. 
Pour  into  sterilized  jelly  glasses.  When  cool  seal  with  hot 
paraffin. 


CHAPTER  CXVIII 
A  WASHINGTON'S  BIRTHDAY  TEA 

WHEN  the  tea  guests  were  ushered  into  Charlotte's  din- 
ing-room that  afternoon,  they  were  delighted  with  the 
table  and  its  red,  white  and  blue  decorations.  In  the  center 
was  a  large  three-cornered  hat  made  of  black  paper,  and 
heaped  with  artificial  red  cherries.  The  cherry  ice  was  tinted 
red,  and  served  in  sherbet  glasses.  A  large  white  cake,  uncut, 
was  one  of  the  chief  decorations,  for  halves  of  red  cherries 
were  placed  together  on  it  to  represent  a  bunch  of  cherries, 
while  tiny  lines  of  chocolate  icing  represented  the  stems. 

Bettina  poured  the  tea  and  placed  in  each  cup  a  red  cherry. 
The  guests  helped  themselves  to  trays,  napkins,  forks  and 
spoons,  and  each  took  a  portion  of  Washington  salad,  served 
in  a  small,  black,  three-cornered  hat,  lined  with  waxed  paper. 
Each  took  also  a  rolled  sandwich,  tied  with  red,  white  and  blue 
ribbon,  and  a  nut  bread  sandwich  in  the  shape  of  a  hatchet. 

The  Washington  fondant,  rolled  in  cocoanut  and  toasted  to 
represent  tree  trunks,  with  small  gilt  hatchets  stuck  in  them, 
occasioned  great  delight.  "How  did  you  ever  think  of  it?" 
Ruth  asked,  and  Bettina  gave  Charlotte  the  credit,  though  she 
in  turn  disclaimed  any  originality  in  the  matter. 

"One  thing  is  lacking,"  said  Bettina.  "Charlotte  and  I 
should  be  wearing  colonial  costumes.  We  did  think  of  it,  but 
happened  to  be  too  busy  to  make  them." 

That  afternoon  Charlotte  and  Bettina  served : 

370 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  371 

George  Washington  Salad 

Rolled  Sandwiches  Nut  Bread  Sandwiches 

Cherry  Ice 

Cherry  Cake  Washington  Fondant 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Washington  Salad   (Twelve  portions) 

1  C-diced  pineapple  Ya  C-Brazil  nuts,  cut  fine 

I  C-marshmallows,  cut  fine  i^   C-salad  dressing 

I   C-grapefruit,  cut  in  cubes    ^  J/2   C-whipped  cream 
I  C-canned  seeded  white  cherries         6  red  cherries 

%  C-filberts  12  tiny  silk  flags 

Mix  the  pineapple,  marshmallows,  grapefruit,  white  cherries 
and  nuts.  Add  the  salad  dressing.  Serve  immediately.  Place 
waxed  paper  in  the  paper  cups  of  the  small,  black,  three-cor- 
nered hats.  Place  one  serving  of  salad  in  each  cup.  Put  one 
teaspoon  of  whipped  cream  on  top  and  half  a  cherry  on  that. 
Stick  a  tiny  silk  American  flag  into  each  portion. 

Nut  Bread  for  Sandwiches  (Twenty-four  sandwiches) 

2  C-graham  flour  2/2,  C-sugar 
I  C-white  flour  V/i  t-salt 

3  t-baking  powder       ^  C-nut  meats,  cut  fine 
I  egz  15^  C-milk 

Mix  the  flours,  baking  powder,  salt,  nut  meats  and  sugar. 
Break  the  egg  in  the  milk  and  add  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix 
thoroughly,  pour  into  a  well-buttered  bread  pan  and  allow  to 
rise  for  twenty  minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifty 
minutes. 

Nut  Bread  Sandwiches 

24  pieces  bread     2/2,  C-butter 

W^hen  the  nut  bread  is  one  day  old,  cut  in  very  thin  slices. 
Cream  the  butter  and  spread  one  piece  of  bread  carefully  with 
butter.  Place  another  piece  on  the  top.  Press  firmly.  Make 
all  the  sandwiches  in  this  way.  Allow  to  stand  in  a  cool,  damp 
place  for  one  hour.  Make  a  paper  hatchet  pattern.  Lay  the 
pattern  on  top  of  each  sandwich  and  with  a  sharp  knife,  trace 


372     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband    '  I 

around  the  pattern.     Cut  through  carefully   and  the   sand-  \ 

wiches  will  resemble  hatchets.    This  is  not  difficult  to  do  and  ■ 

is  very  effective.  | 

Washington's  Birthday  Sandwiches 

I  loaf    of    white    bread    one    day    old  ^ 

8  T-butter  I 

2  yards  each  of  red,  white  and  blue  ribbon  I 

Cut  the  bread  very  thin  with  a  sharp  knife.     Remove  all  i 

crusts.     Place  a  damp  cloth  around  the  prepared  slices  whei?  i 

very  moist,  and  tender.     Spread  with  butter  which  has  been  ' 

creamed  with  a  fork  until  soft.    Roll  the  sandwiches  up  care-  i 

fully  like  a  roll  of  paper.     Cut  the  ribbon  into  six-inch  strips, 
and  tie  around  the  sandwiches.    Place  in  a  bread  box  to  keep  ; 

moist.    Pile  on  a  plate  in  log  cabin  fashion.  ] 


J 


CHAPTER  CXIX 
ANOTHER  OVEN  DINNER 

BETTINA  heard  a  step  on  the  porch,  and  quickly  laying 
aside  her  kitchen  apron,  rushed  to  the  door  to  meet  Bob. 
Her  rather  hilarious  greeting  was  checked  just  in  time,  at  sight 
of  a  tall  figure  behind  him. 

"Bettina,  this  is  Mr.  MacGregor,  of  MacGregor  &  Hopkins, 
you  know.  Mr.  MacGregor,  my  wife,  Bettina.  I've  been  try- 
ing to  get  you  all  afternoon  to  tell  you  I  was  bringing  a  guest 
to  dinner  and  to  spend  the  night.  The  storm  seems  to  have 
affected  the  lines." 

"Oh,  it  has !  I've  been  alone  all  day !  Haven't  talked  to  a 
soul!  Welcome,  Mr.  MacGregor,  I  planned  Bob's  particular 
kind  of  a  dinner  tonight,  and  it  may  not  suit  you  at  all,  but 
I'm  glad  to  see  you,  anyhow." 

Mr.  MacGregor  murmured  something  dignified  but  indis- 
tinct, as  Bob  cried  out  heartily,  "Well,  it  smells  good,  anyhow, 
so  I  guess  you  can  take  a  chance ;  eh,  MacGregor  ?" 

Bettina  had  a  hazy  idea  that  Mr.  MacGregor,  of  MacGregor 
&  Hopkins,  was  somebody  very  important  with  whom  Bob's 
firm  did  business,  and  although  she  knew  also  that  Bob  had 
know  "Mac,"  as  he  called  him,  years  before  in  a  way  that  was 
slightly  more  personal,  her  manner  was  rather  restrained  as 
she  ushered  them  into  the  dining-room  a  few  minutes  later. 
However,  the  little  meal  was  so  appetizing,  and  the  guest 
seemed  so  frankly  appreciative,  that  conversation  soon  flowed 
freely.  Bob's  frank  comments  were  sometimes  embarrassing, 
for  instance  when  he  said  such  things  as  this: 

373 


374     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Matrimony  has  taught  me  a  lot,  MacGregor !  I've  learned 
— well,  now,  you'd  never  think  that  all  this  dinner  was  cooked 
in  the  oven,  would  you?  Well,  it  was:  baked  ham,  baked 
potatoes,  baked  apples,  and  the  cakes — Bettina's  cakes,  I  call 
'em.  You  see,  my  wife  thinks  of  things  like  that — a  good  din- 
ner and  saving  gas,  too !" 

"Oh,  Bob !"  said  Bettina,  with  a  scarlet  face. 

"You  needn't  be  embarrassed,  Bettina,  it's  so !  I  was  just 
telling  'Mac'  as  we  came  in,  that  two  can  live  more  cheaply 
than  one  provided  the  other  one  is  like  you — always  coaxing 
me  to  add  to  our  bank  account.  It's  growing,  too,  and  I  never 
could  save  before  I  was  married!" 

The  dinner  consisted  of : 

Baked  Ham  Baked  Potatoes 

Head  Lettuce  Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing 

Bread  Butter 

Baked   Apples 

Bettina's  Cakes 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bettina's  Baked  Ham  (Three  portions) 
(Bob  calls  it  "great") 

I  lb.  slice  of  ham  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick 
14  cloves  K   C-water 

14  C-vinegar  2  T-sugar 

2  t-mustard 

Remove  the  rind  from  ham.  Stick  the  cloves  into  both  sides. 
Place  in  a  pan  just  the  size  of  the  meat.  Pour  the  vinegar, 
water,  sugar  and  mustard  (well  mixed)  over  the  ham.  Baste 
frequently.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  crisp  and  tender 
(about  forty-five  minutes). 

Head  Lettuce  with  Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing  (Three  portions) 

I  head   of   lettuce     ^  t-pepper 
J4  t-salt  J4  C-Roquefort   cheese 

3  T-oil  I  T-vinegar 

Cream  the  cheese,  add  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Add  the 
oil  gradually.  Mix  well,  shake  thoroughly.  Pour  over  the  let- 
tuce and  serve. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  375  j 

Baked  Apples  (Four  portions)  ■ 

4  apples  I  t-cinnamon 

6  T-brown  sugar  4  marshmallows 

4  T-granulated  sugar     i  t-butter  \ 

Wash  and  core  apples  of  uniform  size.  Mix  the  sugar  and  j 
cinnamon  together.  Fill  the  apples.  Press  a  marshmallow  ■ 
in  each  apple  also.  Dot  the  top  with  a  piece  of  butter.  Place  \ 
the  apples  in  a  pan,  add  the  remaining  sugar,  cover  the  bottom  : 
with  water,  and  bake  until  tender  (twenty-five  to  thirty  min- 
utes), basting  often.     Serve  hot  or  cold.  i 

Bettina's  Cakes  (Eight  cakes) 

1  C-flour  H  t-soda 

I/2  t-cinnamon  %  t-baking  powder 

54  t-powdered   cloves     H  t-salt 
1/3  C-sugar  I  egg 

2  T-melted  butter       1/3  C-sour  milk  : 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.    Add  the  egg  and  the  sour  ' 
milk.     Beat  two  minutes.     Add  the  melted  butter;  beat  one 

minute.     Fill  well-buttered  muffin  pans  one-half  full.     Bake  | 

in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes.  i 


CHAPTER  CXX 
BOB  MAKES  POP-OVERS 

BETTINA  was  busily  setting  the  table  in  the  dining-room 
when  Bob  appeared. 

"Oh,  Bettina,"  said  he  in  a  disappointed  tone,  "why  not  eat 
in  the  breakfast  alcove?  I'd  like  to  show  MacGregor  how 
jnuch  fun  we  have  every  morning." 

"Won't  he  think  we're  being  too  informal?" 

"I  want  him  to  think  us  informal.  The  trouble  with  him 
is  that  he  doesn't  know  that  any  simple  brand  of  happiness 
exists.  His  life  is  too  complex.  Of  course  we're  not  exactly 
primitive — with  our  electric  percolator  and  toaster " 

"Sorry,  Bob,  but  you  can't  use  the  toaster  this  morning ;  I'm 
about  to  stir  up  some  pop-overs." 

"Well,  I'll  forgive  you  for  taking  away  my  toy,  inasmuch 
as  I  do  like  pop-overs.  Let  me  help  you  with  them,  Bettina; 
this  is  one  place  where  you  can  use  my  strong  right  arm." 

"Yes,  indeed  I  can,  Bob.  I'll  never  forget  those  splendid 
pop-overs  that  you  made  the  first  time  you  ever  tried.  They 
look  simple,  but  not  very  many  people  can  make  good  ones. 
The  secret  of  it  is  all  in  the  beating,"  said  she,  as  she  stirred 
up  the  smooth  paste,  "and  then  in  having  the  gem  pans  and 
the  oven  very  hot." 

"Well,  these'll  be  good  ones  then,"  said  Bob,  as  he  set  about 
his  task.  "You  light  the  oven,  Betty,  and  put  the  gem  pans  in 
it,  and  then  before  you  have  changed  things  from  the  dining- 
room  to  the  alcove,  I'll  have  these  pop-overs  popping  away 
just  as  they  ought  to  do !" 

The  percolator  was  bubbling  and  the  pop-overs  were  nearly 
done  when  they  heard  Mr.  MacGregor's  step.    "He's  exactly 

Z7^ 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  377 

on  time,"  chuckled  Bob.  "That's  the  kind  of  a  methodical  fel- 
low he  is  in  everything." 

"Well,  there's  no  time  when  promptness  is  more  appreciated 
than  at  meal-time,"  said  Betty,  decidedly.     "I  like  him." 

"Come  on  out  here!"  called  Bob,  cheerfully.  "This  is  the 
place  in  which  we  begin  the  day !  We'll  show  you  the  kind  of 
a  breakfast  that'll  put  some  romance  into  your  staid  old  head. 
I  made  the  pop-overs  myself,  and  I  know  they're  the  best  you 
ever  saw — likewise  the  biggest — and  they'll  soon  be  the  best 
you've  ever  eaten !" 

When  Bob  had  finished  removing  the  pop-overs  from  their 
pans,  the  two  men  took  their  places  at  the  table  to  the  merry 
tune  of  the  sizzling  bacon  Bettina  was  broiling. 

"I  never  entertained  a  stranger  so  informally  before,"  said 
she. 

"And  I  was  never  such  a  comfortable  guest  as  I  am  at  this 
minute,"  said  Mr.  MacGregor,  looking  down  at  his  breakfast, 
which  consisted  of: 

,  Grapefruit 

Oatmeal 
Bacon  Pop-Overs 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pop-Overs  (Eight) 

I  C-flour      ^  t-salt 

I  C-milk         I  tgs,  beaten  well 

Add  the  milk  slowly  to  the  flour  and  salt,  stirring  constantly, 
until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed.  Beat  and  add  the  remainder 
of  the  milk,  and  the  &gg.  Beat  vigorously  for  three  minutes. 
Fill  very  hot  gem  pans  three-fourths  full.  Bake  thirty  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.  They  are  done  when  they  have  "popped"  at 
least  twice  their  size,  and  when  they  slip  easily  out  of  the  pan. 
Iron  pans  are  the  best. 


MARCH. 

Weary  are  we  of  our  winter-time  fare; 

Hasten,  O  Springtime,  elusive  and  arch! 
Bring  us  your  dainties;  our  cupboards  are  bare! 

Pity  us,  starved  by  tyrannical  March! 


;KSl=il»tt->   C=.alblwrrli»^ 


CHAPTER  CXXI 
IN  MARCH 

C^OPRING  is  in  the  air," 
^  thought  Bettina,  as  she 
opened  the  casement  windows 
of  her  sun  room.  "I  beUeve  we'll 
have  dinner  out  here  tonight.  If 
Bob  would  only  come  home 
early,  before  the  sun  goes  down ! 
Now  I  wonder  who  that  can  be !" 
(For  she  heard  a  knock  at  the 
kitchen  door.) 

"Why,  Charlotte.  Come  in!" 
she  cried  a  moment  later,  for  it  was  Mrs.  Dixon  with  a  nap- 
kin-covered pan  in  hand,  whom  she  found  at  the  door. 

"I've  brought  you  some  light  rolls  for  your  dinner,  Bet- 
tina," said  Charlotte.  "I  don't  make  them  often,  and  when  I 
do,  I  make  more  than  we  can  eat.  Will  they  fit  into  your  din- 
ner menu?" 

"Indeed  they  will!'*  said  Bettina.  "Fm  delighted  to  get 
them.  Now  I  wish  I  had  something  to  send  back  with  you 
for  your  dinner,  but  I  seem  to  have  cooked  too  little  of  every- 
thing !" 

"Don't  you  worry,"  said  Charlotte,  heartily.  "When  I  think 
of  all  the  things  you've  done  for  me,  I'm  only  too  glad  to  offer 
you  anything  I  have !  Well,  I  must  hurry  home  to  get  our 
dinner.  That  reminds  me,  Bettina,  to  ask  you  this:  When 
you  escallop  anything,  do  you  dot  the  crumbs  on  top  with 
butter?" 

"No,  Charlotte,  I  melt  the  butter,  add  the  crumbs,  stir  them 

379 


380    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

well,  and  then  spread  them  on  the  top  of  the  escalloped  oys- 
ters, or  fish,  or  whatever  I  am  esealloping." 

"I'm  glad  to  know  the  right  way  of  doing,  Bettina.  Good- 
bye, dear." 

For  dinner  Bob  and  Bettina  had: 

Ham  Timbales  Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Baked  Apples 

Light   Rolls  Butter 

Grapefruit  Salad 

Chocolate  Custard  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Ham  Timbales  (Three  timbales) 

I  C-ground,  cooked  ham     %  t-paprika 
1/3  C-soft  bread  crumbs         i  ^^^ 
54  t-salt  Yz  C-milk 

Mix  the  ham,  salt,  crumbs  and  paprika.  Add  the  ^ggy  well 
beaten,  and  the  milk.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  tin  or  alum- 
inum individual  moulds.  Place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Unmould  on  a  plat- 
ter.   Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Grapefruit  Salad  (Two  portions) 

I  C-grapefruit,  cut  in  cubes  2  T-cottage  cheese 

%  C-marshmallows,  cut  in  squares  %  t-paprika 

%  C'diced  celery  3  T-salad  dressing 

J4    t-salt  2  lettuce  leaves 

Place  the  lettuce  leaves  on  the  serving  plates.  Arrange  care- 
fully portions  of  grapefruit,  marshmallows,  celery  and  cheese 
upon  the  lettuce.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika.  Pour  the 
salad  dressing  over  each  portion  and  serve  cold. 

Chocolate  Custard  (Two  portions) 

I  C-milk  1/3  square  of  chocolate,  melted 

I  large   Q.^g  i  T-water 

4  T-sugar  J^  t-vanilla 

H  t-salt 

Cook  half  the  sugar,  the  chocolate  and  the  water  until  smooth 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  381 

and  creamy  (two  minutes).  Add  the  milk  while  the  mixture  is 
hot.  Stir  until  smooth.  Beat  the  tgg,  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar 
and  the  salt.  Add  to  the  custard  mixture.  Mix  well.  Pour 
into  two  well-buttered  custard  moulds.  Place  the  moulds  in  a 
pan  surrounded  by  hot  water.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook 
until  a  knife  piercing  it  will  come  out  clean.  (Generally  thirty 
minutes.)  Allow  to  stand  fifteen  minutes  in  a  warm  place. 
Unmould  and  serve  cold. 


CHAPTER  CXXII 
A  FIRELESS  COOKER  FOR  AUNT  LUCY 

^^TITELL,  Uncle  John!  Hello!"  said  Bob,  as  he  came 
*  ^      into  the  kitchen.    "Is  Aunt  Lucy  here,  too  ?" 

"No,  she  isn't,"  said  Uncle  John,  shaking  his  head  solemnly, 
"and  the  fact  is,  I  shouldn't  be  here  myself  if  it  weren't  for  a 
sort  of  conspiracy;  eh,  Bettina?" 

"That's  so.  Bob,"  said  Bettina,  coming  in  from  the  dining- 
room,  her  hands  full  of  dishes,  "and  now  I  suppose  we'll  have 
to  let  you  in  on  the  secret.  Uncle  John  has  just  bought  a 
beautiful  new  fireless  cooker  for  Aunt  Lucy.  Haven't  you, 
Uncle  John?" 

"Well!"  said  Bob,  heartily.  "That's  fine!  How  did  you 
happen  to  think  of  it?" 

"Well  Bob,  she's  been  dreading  the  summer  on  the  farm — 
not  feeling  so  very  strong  lately,  you  know — and  this  morn- 
ing she  was  just  about  discouraged.  It's  next  to  impossible 
to  get  any  help  out  there — she  says  she's  given  up  that  idea — 
and  at  breakfast  she  told  me  that  if  the  spring  turned  out  to  be 
a  hot,  uncomfortable  one,  she  believed  she'd  go  out  and  spend 
the  summer  with  Lem's  girl  in  Colorado.  I  naturally  hate  to 
have  her  do  that,  so  I  concluded  to  do  everything  I  could  to 
keep  her  at  home.  I  telephoned  to  Bettina,  and  she  promised 
to  help  me.  The  very  first  thing  she  suggested  was  a  fireless 
cooker,  and  we  bought  that  today.  I  believe  your  Aunt  Lucy'U 
like  it,  too." 

For  dinner  Bettina  served: 

Meat  Balls  with  Egg  Sauce 

Baked  Potatoes 

Creamed  Peas 

Marshmallow  Pudding  Chocolate  Sauce 

382 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  383 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 
Meat  Balls  (Three  portions) 

1  C-raw  beef,  cut  fine     ^  t-paprika 

%.  C-bread   crumbs  i  t-chopped  parsley 

2  T-milk  %  t-onion  salt 

1  egg-yolk  %  t-celery  salt 
J4  t-salt  3  T-bacon  fat 

Soak  the  crumbs,  milk  and  tgg  together  for  five  minutes. 
Add  the  beef,  salt,  paprika,  parsley,  onion  and  celery  salt. 
Shape  into  flat  cakes  one  inch  thick,  two  and  a  half  inches  in 
diameter.  Place  the  fat  in  the  frying-pan  and  when  hot,  add 
the  cakes.  Lower  the  flame  and  cook  seven  minutes  over  a 
moderate  fire,  turning  to  brown  evenly.  Serve  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter.   Garnish  with  parsley.    Serve  with  tgg  sauce. 

Egg  Sauce  for  Meat  Balls  (Three  portions) 

3  T-flour  %  t-salt 

2  T-butter  J4  t-paprika 

I  t-chopped  parsley  i  hard-cooked  t^z* 

I  C-milk  cut  fine 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  well, 
add  the  milk,  and  cook  for  two  minutes.  Add  the  hard-cooked 
tgg  sliced,  or  cut  in  small  pieces.  Serve  hot  with  the  meat 
balls. 

Marshmallow  Pudding  (Three  portions) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin       H  C-boiling  water 
2  T-cold  water  i  t-lemon  extract 

1/3  C-sugar  I  t-vanilla 

I  egg-white 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  cold  water  for  three  minutes.  Add  the 
boiling  water,  and  when  thoroughly  dissolved  add  the  sugar. 
Allow  to  cool.  Beat  the  egg-white  stiff.  When  the  gelatin 
begins  to  congeal,  beat  it  until  flufify,  add  the  extracts  and 
then  the  egg-white.  Beat  until  stiff.  Pour  into  a  moistened 
cake  pan.  When  hard  and  cold,  remove  from  the  pan,  cut  in 
one  inch  cubes  and  pile  in  a  glass  dish. 


CHAPTER  CXXIII 
THE  DIXONS  DROP  IN  FOR  DESSERT 

S^/^  OME  in !    Come  in !"  cried  Bob  to  the  Dixons.    "You're 

^^  just  in  time  to  have  dessert  with  us !  Bettina,  here  are 
the  Dixons !" 

"Do  sit  down,"  said  Bettina,  "and  have  some  Boston  cream 
pie  with  us !" 

"Frank  won't  need  urging,"  said  Charlotte.  "Our  dessert 
tonight  was  apple  sauce,  and  Boston  cream  pie  (whatever  it 
is)  sounds  too  enticing  to  be  resisted." 

"It  looks  a  little  like  the  Washington  pie  my  mother  used 
to  make,"  said  Frank.  "Only  that  wasn't  so  fancy  on  the 
top." 

"Washington  pie  needs  whipped  cream  to  make  it  perfect," 
said  Bettina,  "and  as  I  had  no  whipped  cream  I  made  this  with 
a  meringue." 

"Dessert  with  the  neighbors !"  said  Frank,  laughing.  "Char- 
lotte read  me  a  suggestion  the  other  day  that  sounded  sen- 
sible. A  housewife  had  introduced  a  new  custom  into  her 
neighborhood.  Whenever  she  had  planned  a  particularly  good 
dessert  she  would  phone  a  few  of  her  friends  not  to  plan  any 
dessert  for  themselves  that  evening,  but  to  stroll  over  after 
dinner  and  have  dessert  with  her  family.  Wasn't  that  an 
idea  ?  It  might  lead  to  cooperative  meals !  We  haven't  done 
our  share;  have  we?  We  should  have  telephoned  to  you  to 
have  the  main  course  with  us  tonight.  Say,  Bettina,  I  like  this 
Boston  cream  pie !    It's  what  I  call  a  real  dessert  I" 

384 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  385 

Lamb  Chops  Creamed  Carrots 

Baked  Potatoes 

Rolls  Butter 

Baked  Apples 

Boston  Cream  Pie  Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed  Carrots   (Two  portions) 

1  C-carrots  H  C-milk 

I  T-flour  54  t-salt 

I  T-butter  %  t-paprika 

Carrots 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots  thoroughly,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  allow  to  boil  until  tender  when  pierced  with  a  knit- 
ting needle  or  a  fork.  (About  twenty  minutes.)  Drain  and 
serve  with  sauce.  Carrots  may  be  cut  into  three-fourth  inch 
cubes  or  any  fancy  shapes,  and  will  cook  in  less  time. 

White  Sauce  for  Carrots 

Melt  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  well. 
Gradually  add  the  milk,  and  cook  the  sauce  until  creamy. 

Baked  Potatoes  (Two  portions) 
2  potatoes 

Wash  thoroughly  two  medium-sized  potatoes.  With  the 
sharp  point  of  the  knife,  make  a  small  cut  around  the  potato 
to  allow  the  starch  grains  to  expand.  Bake  the  potato  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  it  feels  soft  and  mealy,  when  pressed  with 
the  hands.  (About  forty-five  minutes.)  Break  open  the  po- 
tato to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  (Turn  the  potato  about  in 
the  oven  to  insure  evenness  in  baking.) 

Bettina*s  Baked  Apples  (Two  portions) 

2  apples  I  t-cinnamon 

14  C-"C"    sugar     ^^  t-vanilla 
J^  C-water  A  few  grains  of  salt 


386    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Wash  and  core  the  apples.  Mix  the  sugar,  cinnamon,  vanilla 
and  salt,  and  fill  the  cavity  with  the  mixture.  Place  the  apples 
in  a  small  pan,  and  pour  a  little  water  around  them.  Bake 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Boston  Cream  Pie  (Six  portions) 

3  T-butter  ^   C-milk 

8  T- (one-half  C-sugar)       %  C-flour 
I  t^s  iy2  t-baking  powder 

^  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  egg.  Mix  well.  Add  the  sugar 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Add  the  milk  alternately  with  the  flour 
and  baking  powder.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  the  flavorings. 
Bake  in  two  layer-cake  pans,  fitted  with  waxed  paper,  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Spread  the  following  filling 
between  the  layers. 

Filling 

7  T-sugar       i  egg-yolk 
3  T-flour         I  C-milk 
li  t-salt  H  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Add  slowly  the  egg-yolk, 
beaten,  and  the  milk.  Stir  well.  Cook  ten  minutes  in  a  double 
boiler,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  lumping.  Add  vanilla 
and  remove  from  the  fire.  When  partially  cool,  spread  part  of 
the  filling  over  one  layer  of  the  cake.  Allow  to  stand  five  min- 
utes and  then  add  more  filling.  Allow  to  stand  two  minutes. 
Place  the  other  layer  on  the  top  Spread  a  meringue  over  the 
whole  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  long  enough  to  brown  it  deli- 
cately. 

Meringue 

I  egg-white     2  T-sugar 
\i  t-salt  Ys  t-baking  powder 

Add  salt  to  the  e^gg,  beat  until  thick  and  fluffy,  add  the 
sugar  and  baking  powder  and  beat  one  minute. 


CHAPTER  CXXIV 
RUTH  PASSES  BY 

^^1\>T — M!"  said  Ruth,  walking  into  Bettina*s  kitchen  late 

■^^^  one  afternoon.  "What  is  it  that  smells  so  perfectly 
delicious  ?" 

"Lamb  stew,'*  said  Bettina.  "Bob  is  particularly  fond  of  it, 
and  we  haven't  had  it  for  a  long  time.  This  is  such  a  cold 
day  that  I  thought  lamb  stew  would  taste  very  good  tonight." 

"And  what  are  you  making  now?" 

"Soft  gingerbread.  It's  just  ready  to  pop  into  the  oven,  and 
then  I  can  go  into  the  living-room  with  you  and  we'll  visit 
in  state." 

"Don't,  Bettina.  I'd  much  rather  talk  in  your  shining  little 
kitchen  with  the  kettle  bubbling  on  the  hearth  (only  it's  a  gas 
stove  and  you  won't  let  it  bubble  long  if  you  think  of  your 
gas  bill).  'Kitchen  Konfixlences !'  What  a  name  for  a  nice 
little  domestic  science  book  !" 

"Well,  we'll  stay  in  the  kitchen  then,  and  exchange  kitchen 
konfidences.  Where  have  you  been  this  afternoon  in  your 
big  woolly  coat?' 

"Down  town  to  the  market.  And  I  did  get  something  be- 
sides food — a  small  purchase  that  you  advised  me  to  buy.  A 
box  of  labels — plain  label  stickers,  you  know — to  stick  on  the 
boxes  that  I  put  away — out  of  season  things  and  all  that.  I've 
noticed  how  neatly  all  your  stored-away  things  are  labeled." 

"It  saves  so  much  time  in  finding  things.  And  a  label  looks 
better  than  writing  on  the  box,  for  the  labels  are  white  and 
very  often  the  box  is  dark  pasteboard,  and  pencil  marks  are 
difficult  to  see." 

"Well,  good-bye,  Betty  dear,  I  must  run  along  nov/." 

387 


388    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Bettina's  menu  that  night  consisted  of: 

Lamb  Stew 

Apple   Sauce  Rolls 

Gingerbread 

Coffee 

BETTINA*S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Lamb  Stew  (Four  portions) 

1%  lbs.  lamb  (from  the  shoulder)  y%  t-powdered  cloves 

3  T-lard  i  C-tomato 

3  C-boiling  water  2  medium-sized  potatoes 

1  small  onion  2  T-rice 

2  t-salt  ^   C-diced  carrots 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,  and  cut  into  two-inch 
pieces.  Place  the  lard  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot,  add  the 
onion  cut  fine  and  allow  to  brown.  Add  the  meat  and  brown. 
Add  the  boiling  water  to  the  meat  and  onion,  and  cook  one 
minute.  Pour  all  of  the  contents  of  the  frying-pan  into  a 
sauce  pan,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  for  one  hour.  Increase  the 
heat  a  little  to  allow  the  stew  to  boil  occasionally.  Add  the 
potatoes  cut  in  one-inch  cubes,  and  the  diced  carrots.  In 
twenty  minutes,  add  a  cup  of  canned  tomato  pulp  or  fresh  to- 
matoes to  the  stew.  Add  the  seasoning  (salt  and  cloves),  and 
cook  ten  minutes.  This  allows  two  hours  for  the  entire  stew. 
If  at  this  time  the  stew  does  not  seem  thick  enough,  mix  four 
tablespoons  of  water  very  slowly  with  two  level  tablespoons 
of  flour,  stir  thoroughly,  and  pour  slowly  into  the  stew.  Allow 
to  cook  two  minutes  and  serve. 

Soft  Gingerbread   (Twelve  pieces) 

1  C-molasses  i  t-soda 

2  T-sugar  2  t-ginger 
1/3  C-butter  and  lard        i  t-cinnamon 

%  C-warm  water  i  t-salt 

2  C-flour 

Cream  the  butter  and  lard,  add  the  sugar,  molasses  and 
warm  water ;  mix  well.  Mix  and  sift  the  soda,  ginger,  cinna- 
mon, salt  and  flour  and  add  to  the  first  mixture.  Beat  one 
minute  and  pour  into  a  well-buttered  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  twenty-five  minutes.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 


CHAPTER  CXXV 
BETTINA  ENTERTAINS  A  SMALL  NEIGHBOR 

<«T  NDEED   I  will  keep  Kathleen  for  you,"  said  Bettina  to 

A  Mrs.  Fulton.  'T\\  enjoy  it.  We'll  have  to  invent  some 
new  plays  and  have  such  a  jolly  time  that  she  won't  miss  her 
mother  at  all." 

"You're  sure  you  don't  mind?"  asked  Mrs.  Fulton,  anx- 
iously. "If  mother  were  only  stronger,  I  would  leave  her 
there " 

"Go  right  on,  Mrs.  Fulton,  and  don't  worry  one  bit !  Kath- 
leen and  I  are  going  to  have  the  time  of  our  lives !  Let's  see — 
it's  nearly  three.    Shall  I  feed  her  anything?" 

"Well,  she  had  an  early  lunch,  and  has  just  wakened  from 
her  nap.    Perhaps  she  is  a  little  hungry.    Are  you  ?'* 

"Bed'n  delly,"  replied  Kathleen  with  emphasis. 

"Oh,  I  know  something  that's  better  for  little  girls  than 
bread  and  jelly !"  said  Bettina,  lifting  the  roly-poly  little  mite 
onto  the  kitchen  table.  "I'll  make  her  some  good  cream  toast ! 
May  I,  Mrs.  Fulton?" 

"Indeed,  you  may,  if  you  will,"  said  Mrs.  Fulton.  "I'm 
afraid  she  won't  always  eat  it,  though.  Well,  I'll  have  to  go,  I 
suppose,  if  I  get  to  sister  Annie's  train  on  time.  Then  we'll  do 
a  little  shopping  down  town,  and  I'll  be  back  for  Kathleen  at 
six  o'clock  sharp." 

"Just  whenever  it's  convenient  for  you,  Mrs.  Fulton.  Good- 
bye!" 

"Doodby,"  echoed  Kathleen,  apparently  without  the  least  re- 
gret. 

When  Kathleen  was  established  with  her  cream  toast  at  the 

389 


390     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

kitchen  table,  Bettina  said,  "Now,  when  you're  all  through 
eating,  you  and  Aunt  Bettina  will  make  a  beautiful  graham 
cracker  cake  for  Uncle  Bob.  But  first  we'll  clean  some  white 
gloves  !     Shall  we  ?" 

Kathleen  nodded  solemnly,  her  mouth  full  of  *'dood  tream 
toast." 

"Well,  watch  me  then,  honey-lamb.  See,  I'll  put  these  dirty 
old  gloves  in  this  nice  Mason  jar  of  clean  gasoline,  and  let  'em 
soak  awhile.  Then  once  in  a  while  I'll  shake  'em  up  like  this. 
Then  by  and  by  I'll  rinse  'em  in  nice  new  gasoline,  and  they'll 
be  just  as  white  as  new.    Did  you  know  that,  Kathleen?" 

"  'Es,"  said  Kathleen,  staring  wisely. 

"Oh,  you  little  owl!  You  knew  more  than  Aunt  Bettina 
then — at  least  than  I  knew  till  yesterday,  for  I  always  thought 
it  necessary  to  rub  white  gloves  to  get  them  clean.  See  ?  This 
way  I'll  drop  them  down  in  the  gasoline,  and  won't  need  to 
soil  my  hands  at  all !  I'll  get  them  out  with  a  clean  little  stick 
or  a  long  fork.  There !  Now,  are  we  all  ready  to  make  the 
cake?" 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Cream  Toast   (Two  portions) 

H  T-butter    ^  C-milk 
H  T-flour      Ys  t-salt 
2  pieces  of  toast 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  mix  well,  add  the  milk  slowly. 
Add  the  salt  and  boil  two  minutes.  Dip  the  toasted  bread  into 
the  white  sauce,  and  when  soft,  remove  to  the  serving  dish. 
Pour  the  rest  of  the  sauce  over  the  toast  and  serve  hot.  One 
teaspoon  of  sugar  may  be  added  to  the  sauce. 

Graham  Cracker  Cake  (Twelve  pieces) 

1/3  C-butter  3  t-baking  powder 

2/3  C-sugar  2  egg-whites,  beaten 

2  egg-yolks      H  t-ground  cinnamon 
I  C-milk  ^  t-vanilla 

2/3  lb.  graham  crackers  rolled  fine 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  391 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  heat.  Add  all  the  dry 
ingredients  mixed  together  alternately  with  the  milk.  Beat 
two  minutes.  Add  the  vanilla  and  the  egg-whites,  stiffly 
beaten.  Bake  in  square  tin  pans  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

White  Icing 

54  C-sugar  Sifted  powdered  sugar 

54  C-water    Yz  t-vanilla 

Boil  the  sugar  and  the  water  five  minutes  without  stirring. 
Remove  from  the  fire.  Add  the  flavoring,  and  sufficient  sifted 
powdered  su^ar  to  spread  evenly  on  the  cake. 


CHAPTER  CXXVI  ^ 

A  SUNDAY  NIGHT  TEA 

^CQTIR  this  chicken  a  la  king  a  moment  for  me,  will  you, 
»^    Ruth  ?"  said  Bettina.    "I'll  warm  the  plates  in  the  oven." 
"What  is  that  brown  paper  for  ?" 
"To  put  under  the  dishes  I'm  warming.    It  breaks  the  heat 

and  prevents  cracking.     There,  that  cream  sauce  has  cooked 

enough  now.    I'll  take  it  and  beat  it  for  a  minute.    See  ?  There, 

now  it's  ready  for  the  egg  and  the  chicken  mixture." 

"Shall  I  stir  it  now?    Don't  you  put  it  back  over  the  fire?" 
"Just  for  a  minute.    You  see,  if  any  custard  or  egg  sauce 

is  allowed  to  cook  more  than  a  minute  after  the  egg  has  been 

added,  it  will  curdle." 

"Oh,  is  it  done  now  ?    Let  me  toast  the  bread  for  it,  will  you, 

Bettina?    I  like  to  make  cunning  little  light  brown  triangles." 
"I  hope  I  have  made  enough  of  this  chicken  a  la  king." 
"For  eight  people  ?    I'm  sure  that  you  have,  Bettina.    Even 

for  people  with  as  good  appetites  as  Fred  and  I  have!    Are 

you  ready  to  serve  it  now  ?" 

That  Sunday  evening  Bettina  served : 

Chicken    a   la   King  Toast 

Cakes  with  Bettina  Icing 

Coffee 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  393 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Chicken  a  la  King   (Eight  portions) 

l^  C-cold   boiled   chicken,   cut  in  2/3-inch   cubes 

y2  t-salt 
1/3  C-button    mushrooms,  cut  in  fourths 

4  T-pimento,  cut  in  hallf-inch  lengths 
2  T-green    pepper,    cut  fine 

5  T-butter    or    chicken  fat 

6  T-flour  2  C-milk 
Ij^  t-salt  2  egg-yolks 

^  t-paprika  8  pieces  of  toast 

Boil  the  green  pepper  slowly  for  five  minutes.  Drain  off 
the  water.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  add  the  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  three 
minutes  or  until  quite  thick.  Remove  from  the  fire,  beat  one 
minute,  reheat,  add  the  egg-yolk,  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  the 
chicken  mixture.  Heat  again.  Serve  immediately  by  pouring 
over  slices  of  toast. 

To  prepare  the  chicken  mixture,  thoroughly  mix  the  chicken, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  the  mushrooms,  the  cooked  green  pep- 
per and  the  pimento. 

Small  Cakes  (Fourteen  cakes) 

154  C-sugar  Ys  t-salt 

1/3  C-butter  2/2>  C-milk 

2  C-flour  I  t-vanilla 

4  t-baking    powder       ^  t-lemon  extract 
2  egg-whites 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  slowly  and  continue  cream- 
ing. Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  and  add 
these  and  the  milk,  vanilla  and  lemon  extracts  to  the  butter  and 
sugar.  Mix  well  and  beat  two  minutes.  Beat  the  egg-whites 
till  very  stiff  and  fold  these  very  carefully  into  the  cake  mix- 
ture. When  thoroughly  mixed,  fill  the  cake  pans  (which  have 
been  prepared  with  waxed  paper)  two-thirds  of  an  inch  deep 
with  the  mixture. 

Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  allow  to 
stand  five  minutes,  then  slip  a  knife  around  the  edges  and  re- 


394     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

move  the  cake  carefully  from  the  pan.  Turn  over,  remove  the 
paper  and  allow  the  cake  to  cool.  Ice  on  the  bottom  side. 
When  ready  for  serving,  cut  in  two-inch  squares. 

Bettina  Icing 

I  egg-white       i  t-vanilla 
I  T-cream       H  t-lemon  extract 
2  C-powdered   '-jgar 

Beat  the  egg-white,  add  part  of  the  sugar.  Add  the  cream, 
vanilla  and  lemon  extracts.  Keep  beating.  Add  the  rest  of 
the  sugar  gradually.  (A  little  more  sugar  may  be  needed.) 
Beat  the  icing  till  very  fluffy  and  until  it  will  spread  without 
running  off  the  cake.     Spread  each  layer. 


CHAPTER  CXXVII 

A  SHAMROCK  LUNCHEON 

"DETTINA  was  entertaining  "the  crowd"  at  a  shamrock 
-L^  luncheon,  and  each  guest,  to  show  her  enthusiasm  for  the 
charms  of  "ould  Ireland,"  was  wearing  somewhere  upon  her 
gown,  a  bit  of  green. 

A  green  basket  filled  with  white  carnations  and  green  fol- 
iage stood  in  the  center  of  the  table.  White  glass  candle- 
sticks with  green  shades  also  carried  out  the  color  scheme, 
while  white  crocheted  favor  baskets,  filled  with  dainty  green 
candies,  were  at  each  plate.    The  table  was  set  for  six. 

The  name  cards  were  white  shamrocks  outlined  with  green 
ink  and  edged  with  gilt,  and  the  name  on  each  was  written  in 
green. 

Bettina  used  green  ferns  for  decoration  in  every  possible 
place  where  they  might  add  to  the  attractiveness  of  the  table, 
under  the  glass  dishes  and  around  the  baskets  containing  rolls, 
cakes  and  croutons. 

"You  might  be  Irish  yourself,  Bettina,"  said  Mary,  "you 
have  such  a  feeling  for  green !  And  isn't  the  table  lovely, 
girls !" 

For  luncheon  Bettina  served : 

Grapefruit   Cocktail 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup  Shamrock  Croutons 

Bettina   Meat  Timbales  Brown   Sauce 

Asparagus  on  Toast 

Mashed   Sweet   Potato   Croquettes 

Shamrock  Rolls  Mint  Jelly 

Pepper   Salad  Sandwiches 

Bombe   Glace       Shamrock   Cakes 

Coffee 

Shamrock  Candies 

395 


396     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Grapefruit  Cocktail  (Six  portions) 

2  grapefruit       6  green  cherries 
1/3  C-sugar  Smilax  or  fern  leaves 

Peel  the  grapefruit,  remove  the  white  part  and  the  tough 
membrane,  leaving  the  fruit.  Cut  with  the  scissors  into  one- 
inch  cubes.  Place  in  a  bowl,  add  the  sugar  and  allow  to  stand 
in  a  cold  place  for  one  hour.  Arrange  the  servings  in  six 
sherbet  glasses.  Place  one  green  cherry  on  the  top  of  each  and 
garnish  the  plate  with  smilax  or  a  fern  leaf.  Stand  the  sher- 
bet glasses  on  a  paper  doily  on  a  small  serving  plate.  Arrange 
a  bit  of  the  green  leaf  under  the  sherbet  glass  (on  top  of  the 
doily)  so  that  the  green  color  will  be  visible  through  the  glass. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup  (Six  portions) 

2/3  C-celery,    cut   fine     25^  C-milk 

iy2  C-water  2  t-salt 

4  T-butter  H  t-paprika 

6  T-flour  I  t-chopped  parsley 

2  T-whipped  cream 

Wash  the  celery  thoroughly,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add 
the  small  leaves  and  the  water.  Simmer  for  thirty-five  min- 
utes. Strain  through  a  coarse  strainer,  rubbing  all  of  the  pulp 
through.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika. 
Add  the  milk  and  cook  two  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing. Add  the  celery  stock  and  the  pulp.  Cook  one  minute. 
Fill  bouillon  cups  three-fourths  full,  add  two  pinches  of  pars- 
ley and  one  teaspoon  of  cream  to  each  serving. 

Shamrock  Croutons  (Six  portions) 

6  slices  bread     2  T-butter 
^  t-salt 

Cut  the  slices  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  pieces  out  of 
each  with  a  shamrock  cooky  cutter.  Toast  on  each  side  until 
a  delicate  brown.  Butter  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  serve  warm 
with  soup. 


CHAPTER  CXXVIII 
AT  DINNER 

^^1\yT  ARY  gave  a  waffle  party  today,"  announced  Bettina  at 

■^^^   the  dinner  table. 

"A  waffle  party  in  the  afternoon?"  said  Bob.  "That  was 
queer!  Usually  at  afternoon  parties  you  women  serve  tiny 
little  cups  of  tea  and  dainty  olive  sandwiches,  almost  too  small 
to  be  visible;  don't  you?  Waffles  are  more  sensible,  I  think, 
but  it  seems  a  shame  that  we  men  had  to  miss  such  a  party." 

"Well,  I'm  afraid  I'll  have  to  acknowledge  that  we  had  a 
very  good  time  without  you,"  laughed  Bettina,  wickedly.  "It 
has  been  cold  today,  you  know,  and  Mary's  kitchen  was  so 
warm  and  bright  and  cozy !  We  all  went  out  there  and  took 
turns  baking  the  waffles.  We  consumed  a  large  number  of 
them,  and  had  a  very  jolly  informal  kind  of  time.  We  house- 
keepers compared  notes  and  gave  each  other  advice  and  really 
learned  a  great  many  things." 

"Such  as " 

"Well,  Alice  tells  me  that  when  she  makes  a  devil's  food 
cake  she  removes  all  of  the  melted  chocolate  from  the  pan  by 
adding  a  little  flour  which  mixes  in  thoroughly  and  saves  any 
waste  of  chocolate.     Surely  that  is  worth  knowing." 

"It  certainly  is,  though  I'll  admit  that  I  don't  quite  under- 
stand your  language." 

"Well,  cheer  up,  Bob !  There  are  times  when  I  confess  that 
I  don't  quite  understand  the  automobile  explanations  you  so 
often  give  me  of  late !" 

Their  dinner  that  evening  consisted  of : 

Pork  Chops  Mashed  Potatoes 

Creamed  Carrots  Bettina  Salad 

Orange  Dessert 

Coffee 

397 


398     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pork  Chops   (Two  portions) 

2  pork   chops  i  T-egg 

5^  C-cracker   crumbs     i  T-water 
I  T-bacon  fat 

Wipe  the  chops  with  a  damp  cloth.  Mix  the  crumbs  and 
the  salt.  Beat  the  egg  and  the  water  together.  Dip  the  chops 
in  the  crumbs,  then  in  the  tgg  mixture  and  then  in  the  crumbs. 
Place  the  bacon  fat  in  the  frying-pan  and  when  hot  add  the 
chops.  Brown  thoroughly  on  both  sides,  add  half  a  cup  of 
water,  and  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  until  tender.  (About 
thirty  minutes.)  Cover  with  a  lid  while  cooking.  More  water 
may  be  needed  to  prevent  burning. 

Bettina  Salad   (Two  portions) 


I  tomato 

I  t-salt 

1  green  pepper 

2  T-pimento   cut   in 
small  pieces 

2  T-grated  cheese 

2  pieces 

54  t-onion  salt 
54  t-celery  salt 
y^  t-paprika 
54  C-salad  dressing 
of  lettuce 

Arrange  the  lettuce  leaves  on  a  plate.  Place  a  slice  of  to- 
mato, two  slices  of  green  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of  pimento 
and  one  tablespoon  of  cheese  on  each  serving.  Mix  the  salad 
dressing  with  salt,  paprika,  celery  and  onion  salts.  Pour  half 
of  the  mixture  over  a  portion  of  the  salad. 

Orange  Dessert  (Two  portions) 

2  slices  of  sponge  cake        2  T-nut  meats,  cut  fine 

1  orange  2/z  C-whipped  cream 

2  T-sugar  i  t-vanilla 

Add  the  vanilla  and  the  sugar  to  the  whipped  cream.  Ar- 
range the  slices  of  cake  on  the  plates.  Place  one-fourth  of  the 
orange,  divided  into  sections  and  sprinkled  with  sugar,  on  each 
slice.  Pile  the  whipped  cream  on  the  orange.  Place  one  table- 
spoon of  nut  meats  and  the  remaining  fourth  of  the  orange 
(cut  small)  on  each  portion.  Do  not  arrange  this  dessert  until 
just  ready  to  serve. 


CHAPTER    CXXIX 

AN    ANNIVERSARY    DINNER 

ii^  l^HIS  is  some  dinner,  Bettina !"  said  Bob,  over  his  des- 
-^  sert.  "It's  like  a  celebration,  somehow,  with  the 
pink  candles  on  the  table,  and  the  flowers,  and  the  com- 
pany menu.  Why,  Bettina,  I  do  believe  it  is  an  anniver- 
sary! Isn't  it?  Let  me  see!  The  second  anniversary  of 
our  engagement !" 

"I've  been  waiting  to  see  if  you  would  remember  that, 
Bob,  and  I  must  say  that  I'm  a  little  ashamed  of  you  !  After 
all,  it  took  the  pink  candles  and  the  company  dinner  to 
make  you  think  of  it !  Well,  I  suppose  men  are  all  alike !" 
And  she  sighed  the  sigh  of  deep  disillusionment. 

Bob  waited  for  a  moment  to  see  the  dimple  reappear  in 
her  cheek,  and  the  twinkle  in  her  eyes,  and  then  he,  too, 
sighed — a  sigh  of  relief. 

"Bless  your  heart,  Bettina,  don't  you  sigh  like  that  again! 
You  almost  had  me  thinking  that  you  were  in  earnest.  Now 
you  took  the  very  nicest  way  to  remind  me  of  that  anniversary. 
Instead  of  feeling  neglected  like  some  women " 

"What  do  you  know  about  'some  women,'  Bob?" 

"Only  what  I've  read  in  books " 

"Well,  the  books  don't  know.  But  I  give  you  fair  warn- 
ing, Bob,  that  on  the  next  anniversary  you  fail  to  remember, 
I'll  feed  you  bread  and  milk,  ana  not  chicken/' 

"This  is  a  fine  dessert,"  said   Bob  meekly  and  tactfully. 

399 


400     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Do  you  like  it?  I  enjoy  making  it,  it  looks  so  light  and 
fluffy.  I  pile  it  very  lightly  into  the  glass  dish  to  make  it 
that  way.     I  prefer  gelatin  in  glass  dishes,  don't  you.  Bob?" 

"You  bet  I  do !  Everything  about  this  anniversary  din- 
ner is  fine  except  for  my  own  stupidity !" 

That  night  Bettina  served : 

Bettina's  Chicken  En  Casserole 

Whole  Wheat  Bread  Butter 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Head   Lettuce   with    Salad   Dressing 

Bettina's  Sponge 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bettina's  Chicken  En  Casserole   (Two  portions) 

4  pieces   of  chicken  1/2  C-cooked  potatoes, 
2  T-flour  cut  in  cubes 

I  T-lard  5^  C-cooked  carrots 

I  C-boiling  water  %  C-cooked  celery 

1  t-salt  I  T-raw  onion 

2  T-butter  i  t-salt 

Roll  the  chicken  in  the  flour.  Place  the  lard  in  the  frying- 
pan,  and  when  very  hot,  add  the  chicken,  browning  thor- 
oughly on  all  sides.  Season  with  the  salt.  Place  in  the 
casserole  and  add  the  boiling  water.  Cover,  and  place  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  one  hour.  Melt  the  butter,  and  when 
hot,  add  the  potatoes,  carrots,  onion,  celery  and  salt.  Stir 
constantly,  and  when  well-browned,  add  to  the  chicken 
mixture.  Allow  to  cook  for  half  an  hour.  More  water  may 
be  needed.     Serve  in  the  casserole. 

Bettina's  Sponge   (Three  portions) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin         i   C-boiling  water 
I  T-cold  water  y^   C-whipped  cream 

4  T-sugar  6  cocoanut  macaroons,  crushed 

I  T-lemon  juice  8  candied  cherries,  cut  fine 

2  T-nut  meats,  cut  fine 

Add  the  cold  water  to  the  gelatin  and  allow  it  to  stand 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  401 

five  minutes.  Add  the  sugar  and  the  lemon  juice.  Mix 
well,  and  add  boiling  water.  When  thoroughly  dissolved, 
allow  to  cool.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  congeal,  or 
thicken,  add  the  whipped  cream,  crushed  macaroons,  cher- 
ries and  nut  meats.  Beat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
Pile  lightly  into  a  glass  dish  and  set  away  to  harden  for 
one  hour. 


CHAPTER    CXXX 
RUTH  COMES  TO  DINNER 

^^IIJOW  do  you  like  this  kind  of  meat,  Ruth?"  asked  Bob. 

-■-  ■••  "It  is  a  little  invention  of  Bettina's  own.  I  call  it  a 
symphony  and  no  *mis-steak.*  " 

"It  is  an  economy,  not  a  symphony,"  said  Bettina,  "but 
if  it  leads  you  to  make  such  dreadful  puns  as  that,  I'll  wish 
I  had  fed  you  something  else  for  dinner." 

"To  me,"  said  Ruth,  "this  dish  is  a  delicacy  and  a  des- 
pair. How  can  you  think  of  things  like  this?  I  know  I 
never  could  do  it  in  the  wide  world !" 

"I  can't  compose  symphonies  or  poems,"  said  Bettina, 
"so  I  express  myself  in  this  way.  And  most  of  my  music 
is  played  in  a  simple  key.  It  is  difficult  to  think  of  a  variety 
of  inexpensive  meat  dishes,  and  sometimes  I  have  to  invent 
them  in  order  to  keep  within  my  allowance,  and  still  vary 
my  menus.  Creamed  onions  are  economical  and  healthful, 
too,  so  you  see  that  my  whole  dinner  is  inexpensive." 

"And  also  delicious,"  said  Ruth.  "I  don't  see  how  you 
manage  to  keep  cooked  onions  from  having  a  strong  smell, 
and  to  keep  the  house  so  free  from  the  odor." 

"O  that  someone  would  patent 
That  someone  would  patent  and  sell 
An  onion  with  an  onion  taste 
And  with  a  violet  smell," 

quoted  Bob. 

402 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  403 

"Well,"  said  Bettina,  "I'm  afraid  that  a  house  in  which 
onions  have  recently  been  cooking,  can't  be  entirely  free 
from  the  odor,  but  I  largely  overcome  the  difficulty  by 
peeling  them  under  cold  water,  and  then  cooking  them  in 
an  uncovered  vessel.  Then,  too,  I  wonder  if  you  know  that 
boiling  them  for  five  minutes  and  then  draining  them  and 
covering  them  with  boiling  water  again — even  draining 
them  twice  and  finishing  the  cooking  in  fresh  boiling  water 
— is  a  splendid  thing  for  taking  away  the  strong  taste." 

"No,  I  didn't  know  that.  Bettina,  dear,  your  kind  of 
apple  sauce  is  as  fine  a  dessert  as  I  ever  ate." 

"You're  good  to  say  so,  Ruth.  I  was  afraid  when  I  urged 
you  to  stay  tonight  that  you  might  think  this  meal  very 
plain  and  simple  for  a  guest,  but  I  know  it  is  healthful  and 
economical  and  Bob  seems  to  thrive,  so  I'll  not  be  remorse- 
ful." 

"Just  let  me  ask  you  what  gives  this  apple  sauce  such  a  deli- 
cate flavor.  It  isn't  a  bit  like  common,  ordinary  apple 
sauce." 

"I  don't  know ;  maybe  it's  the  butter.  I  always  put  t"hat 
in,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt.  This  has  also  a  thin  slice  of 
lemon  cooked  in  it — rind  and  all — and  of  course  there  is  a 
little  cinnamon,  though  some  people  prefer  nutmeg.  Then 
I  try  to  be  careful  in  putting  in  the  sugar,  for  I  know  that 
some  apples  require  more  than  others.  These  were  tart 
apples;  I  like  them  better  for  apple  sauce." 

"The  reason  why  I'm  never  cross 
Is  'cause  I'm  fed  on  apple  sauce," 

remarked  Bob  complacently. 

"But  I  am  sure  you'd  fret  and  cry 
If  fed  instead  on  apple  pie," 

added  Ruth. 


404    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Not  Bettina's  apple  pie!"  said  Bob  decidedly.     "You 
may  just  be  sure  that  it  would  improve  any  disposition!" 
Dinner  that  night  consisted  of: 

Bettina  Steak 

New  Potatoes  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce 

Creamed  Onions 

Apple  Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Bettina  Steak  (Four  portions) 

I  lb.  ground  beef  from  the  round     H  t-onion   juice   or  onion   salt 
14  C-bread  crumbs  ^2  t-chopped  green  pepper 

%  C-milk  I  t-salt  ^ 

I  egg,  well  beaten  54  t-paprika 

%  t-grated  nutmeg  H  t-chopped  parsley- 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  milk  for  three  minutes,  add  the  meat, 
egg,  nutmeg,  onion  juice,  parsley,  salt,  green  pepper  and 
paprika.  Mix  well.  Pat  into  shape  one  and  one-half  inches 
thick  in  a  well  buttered  tin  pan.  Cook  five  minutes  under 
a  very  hot  broiler.  Turn  down  the  heat  a  little  and  cook 
ten  minutes  more.  Turn  the  steak  into  another  buttered 
pan  the  same  size  and  cook  that  side  ten  minutes.  Pie 
tins  may  be  used  to  cook  the  meat  in. 

Creamed  Onions   (Four  portions) 

6  onions  ij^  C-vegetable  white  sauce 

Peel  six  medium  sized  onions  under  cold  water.  Place 
in  a  stew-pan  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil  five  min- 
utes, drain,  cover  again  with  boiling  water  and  cook  ten 
minutes.  Drain,  recover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  ten 
minutes  longer  or  until  tender.     Serve  with  hot  white  sauce. 

Apple  Sauce 

6  tart  apples       i  thin  slice  of  lemon 
J4  C-water  %  t-cinnamon 

I/2  C-sugar  14  t-butter 

A  few  grains  of  spU 


_  With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  405 

w 

Wash,  peel,  quarter  and  core  the  apples.  Add  the  water, 
cover  the  kettle  with  a  lid  and  cook  till  apples  are  soft.  Add 
other  ingredients.  Cook  enough  longer  to  dissolve  the 
sugar.     Mash  or  put  through  a  colander,  if  desired. 


APRIL. 

Tell  me  J  housewife  blithe  and  fair. 
How  does  your  garden  grow? 

Crisp  and  green  the  lettuce  there,- 
OnionSj  row  by  row, 

Radishes  beyond  compare! 

Spring  and  I  with  tender  care 
Watch  them  well,  you  know! 


=_i.».«.t,eJK 


CHAPTER   CXXXI 
MILDRED'S  SPRING  VACATION 


I 


(( 


WAS  so  afraid  Father 
wouldn't  let  me  come, 
Aunt  Bettina!'*  exclaimed  Mil- 
dred, after  the  first  greetings. 
"And  your  letter  sounded  so 
jolly — about  the  cooking  and 
all — well,  if  Father  had  said 
'no,*  I  should  simply  have  died." 
"Died,  Mildred?"  asked  Bob. 
"I  must  say  you  look  fairly 
healthy  to  me,  too  much  so  to 


pme  away  soon 


"I  don't  intend  to  die  now,  Uncle  Bob !  I'm  going  to  live 
and  have  the  most  fun  helping  Aunt  Bettina!  I  like  that 
so  much  better  than  lessons.  I  brought  two  aprons  in  my 
suit  case  :  Mother  said  I  acted  as  if  I  wouldn't  meet  anybody 
in  a  three  day  visit  but  your  kitchen  stove.  And  to  tell  the 
truth.  Aunt  Bettina,  I  just  hope  I  won't!  I'd  rather  help 
you  cook  than  see  sights  or  meet  people." 

"Oh,  dear !"  exclaimed  Bob  tragically.  "Just  when  I  was 
counting  on  you  to  climb  to  the  dome  of  the  capitol  with 
me,  too  !    Why  was  I  ever  born  ?" 

"You'll  have  to  do  your  climbing  alone,  I'm  afraid,"  Mil- 
dred replied  cheerfully.  "Now,  Aunt  Bettina,  may  I  set 
the  table  for  you?  Do  show  me  what  you  are  going  to 
have    for    dinner!      Little    custards?      Oh,    how    cunning! 


Made  in  moulds  and  served  cold  with  maple  syrup? 

407 


Aunt 


408     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Bettina,  I  just  believe  I  could  make  that  dessert  myself! 
Will  you  teach  me  while  I'm  here?" 
The  dinner  consisted  of: 


Round  Steak  En   Casserole  Baked  Potatoes 

Lettuce    Salad  Bettina    Dressing 

Steamed  Custard  Maple  Syrup 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Round   Steak  En   Casserole    (Three   portions) 

I  lb.  round  steak,  cut  one  2  T-green    pepper,    cut    fine 

inch  thick  i  C-diced  carrots 

J4  C-flour  2  C-water 

I  T-onion,  cut  fine  2  t-salt 

Place  the  meat,  which  has  been  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth, 
upon  a  meat  board.  Cut  into  four  pieces.  Pound  the  flour 
into  the  meat  on  both  sides,  using  a  meat  pounder  or  the 
side  of  a  heavy  saucer.  Butter  the  casserole,  add  a  layer  of 
meat,  then  onions  and  green  peppers.  Add  the  carrots. 
Add  the  salt  to  the  water  and  pour  over  the  meat.  Cover 
closely.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for 
two  hours.  More  water  may  be  needed  before  the  meat 
is  done.    Serve  in  the  casserole. 

Lettuce  Salad  (Three  portions) 

6  pieces  of  lettuce     j^  t-salt 

Arrange  the  lettuce,  which  has  been  washed  and  chilled, 
upon  three  plates.  Sprinkle  the  lettuce  with  salt  and  serve 
with  the  following  dressing : 

Bettina  Dressing 

2/3  C-salad    dressing  i  T-pimento  catsup 

1  t-olive  oil  %   C-celery,  cut  fine 

2  T-chopped  pickle  2  T-nut  meats,  cut  fine 
I  T-chopped  pimento  %  t-salt 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  409 

Beat  the  salad  dressing,  add  the  oil,  pickle,  pimento, 
catsup,  celery,  nut  meats,  salt  and  paprika.  Beat  one  min- 
ute. Pour  three  tablespoons  of  the  mixture  over  each  por- 
tion of  the  lettuce.     Serve  very  cold. 

Steamed  Custard   (Four  custards) 

iH  C-milk         }i  t-salt 

2  eggs  %  t-vanilla  extract 

3  T-sugar       %  t-lemon  extract 

%  t-grated  nutmeg 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  salt,  vanilla,  and  lemon 
extract.  Mix  thoroughly.  Butter  four  custard  cups.  Fill 
a  pan  four  inches  deep  with  hot  (not  boiling)  water.  Set 
the  cups  in  the  pan  and  place  in  a  moderately  slow  oven  for 
thirty-five  or  forty  minutes  (or  until  a  knife  inserted  in 
the  custard  comes  out  clean).  Serve  cold  with  maple  syrup 
poured  over  it. 


CHAPTER   CXXXII 
HELPING  BETTINA 

^^l\/fILDRED  helped  me  get  the  dinner  tonight,"  said 

•»-^-*-    Bettina,  as  they  sat  down  at  the  table. 

"Indeed  I  did,  Uncle  Bob !"  exclaimed  the  little  girl  de- 
lightedly. "And  I'm  having  so  much  fun  that  I  don't  ever, 
ever,  ever  want  to  go  home !  Aunt  Bettina  is  going  to  show 
me  how  to  make  cookies  tomorrow !" 

"Is  she?"  said  Bob.  "Well,  don't  eat  'em  all  up  before 
I  get  here.  Save  me  six  fat  ones,  with  raisins  in.  Don't 
forget  the  raisins." 

"I  set  the  table,  Uncle  Bob,  and  I  made  the  rice  cro- 
quettes into  that  cunning  shape,  and  when  they  were  fried, 
I  put  in  the  jelly!     Don't  they  look  nice?" 

"The  most  artistic  rice  croquettes,  I  ever  ate !"  declared 
Bob. 

"And  wait  till  you  see  the  dessert !  I  fixed  that ;  Aunt 
Bettina  showed  me  how.  But  I  won't  tell  you  what  it  is — 
yet.     I  know  you'll  like  it,  though." 

"Well,  you're  a  great  little  helper,  Mildred,  aren't  you!" 

"That's  just  what  Aunt  Bettina  says.  And  I've  learned 
so  many  things !  I  didn't  know  before  that  it  was  easier 
to  cut  up  marshmallows  with  the  scissors  than  any  other 
way.  Oh,  Aunt  Bettina !  I  almost  told  him  about  our  des- 
sert!" 

"Marshmallows?     Marshmallows?"  said  Bob.     "A  clue, 

410 


With  Bettinafs  Best  Recipes  411 

I  do  believe !  I  have  it :  'Marshmallows  served  with  scis- 
sors '/  " 

"Oh,  Uncle  Bob,  you're  too  funny !"  cried  Mildred,  shout- 
ing with  laughter. 

"Appreciated  at  last !"  said  Bob. 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Lamb   Chops  Rice  Croquettes 

Creamed  Peas 

Bread  Butter 

Sponge   Cake  Whipped   Cream 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

^AU  measurements  are  level) 

Broiled   Lamb   Chops    (Three   portions) 

3  lamb  chops        1  t-salt 
I  T-butter  54  t-paprika 

Ys,  t-parsley 

Wipe  and  trim  the  chops.  Place  on  a  hot  tin  pan  four 
inches  from  a  direct  hot  flame  (under  a  broiler).  Cook  two 
minutes,  turn  and  thoroughly  cook  the  other  side  for  two 
minutes.  Lower  the  flame  a  little,  add  the  salt  and  pepper, 
and  cook  for  eight  minutes  more.  (A  little  longer  if  the 
chops  are  very  thick.)  Remove  to  a  warm  platter,  dot  with 
butter,  add  the  parsley  and  serve  immediately. 

Rice  Croquettes  with  Jelly    (Three   croquettes) 


I  C-steamed  rice 

Ya  t-salt 

I  egg-yolk 

I  t-chopped  parsley 

I  T-butter 

3  T-flour 

%  t-paprika 

2  T-grape  jelly 

Mix  the  steamed  rice,  egg-yolk,  butter,  paprika,  salt  and 
parsley.  Shape  into  flat  disks  one  inch  thick  and  three 
inches  in  diameter.  Roll  in  flour.  Make  an  indentation  in 
the  center  of  each  with  a  spoon,  to  hold  the  jelly.  Fry  in 
hot  deep  fat  until  brown.  Drain,  the  wrong  side  up.  Heat 
in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  hot.  Place  a  cube  of  jelly  in  the 
center  of  each. 


412     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Sponge   Cake  with  Whipped   Cream    (Three  portions) 

3  slices  of  stale   cake   (three  3  T-cherry  juice 

by  three  by  one  inch)  4  T-whipping  cream 

8  marshmallows  cut  in  cubes  J^  t-vanilla 

3  T-canned  cherries  V/i  T-sugar 

Beat  the  cream  until  stiff,  add  the  vanilla,  marshmallows 
and  sugar.  Arrange  the  cake  in  glass  sherbet  dishes.  Place 
a  tablespoon  of  cherries  and  a  tablespoon  of  juice  on  each 
slice.  Place  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  the  whipped 
cream  mixture  on  each  portion.  Allow  to  stand  in  a  cold 
place  for  five  minutes. 


CHAPTER    CXXXIII 
HELPING  WITH   A   COMPANY   DINNER 

^^/^^OOKING  a  company  dinner  is  such  fun!"  sighed 

^^  Mildred.  "I  like  the  dinner  part,  but  I  always  wish 
that  the  company  would  stay  away  at  the  last  minute." 

"Oh,  you'll  like  Mr.  Jackson,  Mildred.  He's  one  of 
Uncle  Bob's  best  friends,  and  so  nice  and  jolly!" 

"The  jolly  men  always  like  to  tease,  and  the  ones  who 
aren't  jolly  are  always  cross.  I  don't  intend  to  get  mar- 
ried myself.  I'm  going  to  live  in  a  nice  little  bungalow  like 
this  one  and  do  my  own  cooking." 

"Will  you  live  all  alone?"  asked  Bettina. 

"I'll  adopt  some  children — seven  or  eight,  I  think, — all 
girls.     I  don't  want  any  boys  around." 

"Your  bungalow  will  have  to  be  larger  than  this  to  accom- 
modate them  all  if  you  adopt  seven  or  eight." 

"I  don't  want  a  large  one;  that  would  spoil  the  fun.  I'll 
let  the  children  take  turns  sleeping  on  the  floor.  Children 
always  love  to  sleep  on  the  floor,  and  mothers  never  like 
to  have  them  do  it !  I  wonder  why  ?  Now,  will  you  let 
me  brown  the  flour  for  the  gravy?" 

"Yes,  dear.  Put  half  a  cup  of  white  flour  in  that  frying- 
pan  over  the  fire  and  keep  stirring  it  constantly  until  it  is  a 
nice  brown  color,  about  like  powdered  cinnamon." 

"This  way?" 

"Yes,  Mildred ;  a  little  darker  than  that,  but  keep  stirring 
it  so  that  it  won't  burn.     There,  that's  exactly  right !" 

That  evening  Bettina  served: 

413 


414     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Leg  of  Lamb  with  Browned  Potatoes 

Gravy 

Lettuce  and  Egg  Salad 

Strawberry    Shortcake  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Leg  of  Lamb  and  Browned  Potatoes  (Four  portions) 

3  lb.  leg  of  lamb       %  t-paprika 

6  potatoes  2  T-bacon  fat 

I  T-salt  1/3  C-boiling  water 

Allow  the  lamb  to  stand  in  cold  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  and  wipe  dry.  Place  the  fat  in  a  frying-pan.  Add 
the  meat  and  cook  until  thoroughly  browned  on  all  sides. 
Place  in  the  fireless  cooker  (or  a  slow  oven)  and  surround 
the  meat  with  the  potatoes.  Sprinkle  with  the  salt  and 
paprika.  Add  the  water.  (If  in  the  cooker,  place  the  heated 
disks  under  and  over  the  meat.)     Cook  two  hours. 

Gravy   (Four  portions) 

4  T-browned    flour       %  t-white  pepper 
I  T-butter  iH  C-meat  stock  and 

I  t-salt  water 

Remove  the  meat  from  the  pan  in  which  it  was  cooked 
^also  remove  the  potatoes)  and  add  sufficient  water  to  the 
stock  in  the  pan  to  make  one  and  a  half  cups  all  together. 
Melt  the  butter,  add  the  browned  flour  and  a  tablespoon  of 
the  stock.  Mix  well,  and  add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Add  the 
remaining  stock ;  cook,  stirring  constantly  for  two  minutes. 
Pour  into  a  heated  gravy  dish.     Serve  at  once. 

Egg  and  Lettuce  Salad   (Four  portions) 

8  pieces  of  lettuce      2  t-salt 

4  hard-cooked  eggs     J^  t-paprika 

4  radishes    ^  %.  t-celery  salt 

4  young  onions  8  T-salad  dressing 

Arrange  two  pieces  of  lettuce  on  each  plate.  Slice  an 
egg,  a  radish  and  an  onion  and  arrange  these  upon  the 
lettuce  leaves.  Sprinkle  each  portion  with  a  fourth  of  the 
seasoning.  Place  two  tablespoons  of  salad  dressing  on  each 
portion.     Have  all  the  ingredients  cold  before  combining. 


CHAPTER    CXXXIV 
MILDRED'S    DAY 

t^T  HELPED  to   make   the  cunning  little  biscuits,   Uncle 

•*-     Bob,"  explained  Mildred  at  dinner. 

"You  did?"  said  Bob,  feigning  astonishment.  "You  rolled 
them  out  with  a  rolling  pin,  I  suppose,  and " 

"Oh,  no,  Uncle  Bob!  You  ought  never  to  use  a  rolling 
pin,  Aunt  Bettina  says!"  said  Mildred  in  a  horrified  tone,  as 
if  she  had  been  cooking  for  the  First  Families  for  a  score 
of  years.  "Good  cooks  always  pat  down  the  dough — ^they 
never  roll  it  out." 

"Well,  v^hat  do  you  do  first?  Stir  up  the  dough  v^ith  a 
spoon?" 

"No,  indeed ;  you  use  a  knife.  Then  you  pat  the  dough 
down,  and  cut  out  the  dear  little  biscuits  with  a  biscuit 
cutter." 

"And  put  them  side  by  side  in  a  nicely  buttered  pan?  I 
know  how !" 

"But  you  don't  butter  the  pan,"  said  Mildred  trium- 
phantly. "Or  flour  it,  either.  Aunt  Bettina  says  that  lots 
of  people  think  the  pan  has  to  be  buttered  or  floured,  but 
they're  wrong.  It's  lots  better  to  put  the  biscuits  into  a  nice 
clean  pan." 

"But  don't  they  stick  to  it,  and  burn?" 

"No,  indeed  !  They  don't  burn  a  bit !  Look  at  these !" 
said  Mildred,  delighted  to  find  the  opportunity  to  impart 
some  of  her  newly  acquired  knowledge. 

"Well,  what  else  did  you  help  Aunt  Bettina  to  make?" 

41. S 


416    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"These  nice  stuffed  onions.  It  was  fun  to  make  them, 
even  though  I  don't  like  onions.  I  ground  up  the  dry 
bread  that  Aunt  Bettina  keeps  in  the  jar  by  the  stove." 

"Well,  you  can  tell  Mother  Polly  that  Aunt  Bettina  will 
make  a  good  cook  of  you  yet !" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Rolled  Stuffed  Steak  Potatoes  au   Gratin 

Stuffed  Onions 
Sour   Cream   Biscuits  Currant  Jelly- 

Sliced  Bananas  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Stuffed  Onions  (Four  portions) 

4  onions  i  t-parsley 

J^  C-bread  crumbs       i  T-pimento 
I  T-tomato  pulp         i  egg-yolk 
I  T-buttcr  y^  C-cooked  celery 

Yz  t-salt 

Wash  and  peel  the  onions.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  in  boil- 
ing water.  Rinse  with  cold  water  to  make  them  firm. 
Push  out  the  centers.  Place  the  onions  in  a  well-buttered 
baking  pan  and  fill  each  onion  with  filling.  Place  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Filling 

Mix  the  crumbs,  tomato  pulp,  butter,  parsley,  pimento, 
salt,  tgg  yolks  and  celery.  Cook  for  one  minute.  Fill  each 
onion  case  carefully  with  the  mixture.  Then  pour  the 
following  sauce  about  the  onions  before  placing  them  in  the 
oven : 

White  Sauce   (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter        H  t-salt 
2  T-flour        i/6  t-paprika 
I   C-milk 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix 
well,  add  the  milk,  and  cook  for  one  minute. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  417 

Sour  Cream  Biscuits  (Four  portions) 

2  C-flour  3  T-fat 
i^  t-salt                            %.  t-soda 

3  t-baking   powder    2/3  C-sour  milk 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Cut  in  the  fat 
with  a  knife.  Add  the  soda  to  the  milk,  and  when  the 
effervescing  ceases,  add  slowly  to  the  dry  ingredients.  (All 
the  milk  may  not  be  needed.)  When  a  soft  dough  is 
formed,  toss  onto  a  floured  board.  Pat  into  shape,  cut 
with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  place  side  by  side  on  a  tin  pan  or 
baking  sheet.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven. 


CHAPTER    CXXXV 
POLLY   COMES   FOR   MILDRED 

^^QO  you've  been  teaching  Mildred  to  cook?"  asked  Polly 

^   as  they  sat  down  to  dinner. 

"Oh,  Mother,  I've  learned  so  much !"  cried  Mildred  v^ith 
enthusiasm.  "And  when  I'm  married,  I'm  going  to  have  a 
dear  little  kitchen  just  like  Aunt  Betty's!  Aunt  Betty  does 
know  the  very  best  way  to  do  everything!  Why,  Mother, 
I  think  she's  a  better  cook  even  than  Selma,  and  not  half 
so  cross  when  I  bother !" 

"Bother!"  said  Bettina.  "Why,  Mildred,  you've  been  a 
real  help  to  me !" 

"I  hope  so,"  laughed  Polly,  "but  I'm  not  so  sure.  Chil- 
dren never  worry  me — it's  fortunate,  isn't  it? — but  I  don't 
see  how  on  earth  anyone  can  cook  with  a  child  in  the 
kitchen !  I  wanted  Selma  to  teach  Mildred,  but  I  hadn't 
the  heart  to  insist  when  she  objected  to  the  plan." 

"H— m,  Selma !"  said  Mildred  with  scorn.  "Why,  Mother, 
Selma  doesn't  even  know  enough  to  line  her  cake  pans  with 
waxed  paper !  She  butters  'em !  And  I  don't  believe  we 
have  a  spatula  in  the  whole  house !" 

"A — what?"  said  Polly  in  a  puzzled  tone.  "I  don't  be- 
lieve I " 

"Don't  you  know  what  a  spatula  is.  Mother?"  asked 
Mildred  didactically.  "Why,  it's  one  of  those  flattened  out 
spoon-things  to  use  in  the  kitchen.  We  ought  to  have  one. 
And — Mother,  you  ought  to  see  how  much  mayonnaise 
Aunt  Bettina  makes  at  a  time !     It'll  keep,  you  know." 

418 


With  Bettinafs  Best  Recipes  419 

"Goodness!"  said  Polly  tragically.  "What  a  dreadful 
thing  it  will  be  to  live  with  a  child  who  knows  more  than 
I  do !" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Veal  Chops 

Baked  Potatoes  Escalloped  Onions 

Bread  Butter 

Mocha  Cake  Mocha  Icing 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Escalloped   Onions   (Four  portions) 

I  C-onions         i  t-salt 

1  qt.    water     %.  t-pepper 

2  T-butter  i   C-milk 

2  T-flour  J4  C-buttered  crumbs 

Wash  and  peel  the  onions.  Cook  in  one  quart  of  water. 
Allow  to  boil  five  minutes.  Change  the  water  and  continue 
boiling  ten  minutes.  Change  the  water  again.,  and  when 
thoroughly  cooked  (about  fifteen  minutes  more),  remove 
from  the  fire  and  drain. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Add  the  milk  and  cook  one  minute.  Add  the 
onions,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  baking 
dish.  Place  the  buttered  crumbs  on  the  top  of  the  onions 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Mocha  Cake  (Twelve  portions) 

1/3  C-butter        i   C-strong  coffee 

1  C-sugar       1/2  t-vanilla 

2  eggs  2  C-flour 

3  t-baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  cream  the  mixture,  add 
the  egg-yolks,  mix  well  and  add  the  coffee,  vanilla,  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Beat  two  minutes.  Add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg- 
whites.  Pour  the  mixture  into  two  layer-cake  pans  pre- 
pared with  waxed  paper.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.    When  cool,  spread  with  the  mocha  icing. 


420    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mocha   Icing    (Twelve   portions) 

4  T-strong  boiling  coffee     i  t-vanilla 
iVz   C-powdered   sugar 

Mix  the  vanilla  with  the  coffee.  Add  the  powdered  sugar 
slowly  until  the  proper  consistency  to  spread.  Spread  over 
one  layer  and  place  the  upper  layer  on  the  lower.  Place  the 
icing  on  the  top  layer  and  on  the  sides.  More  sugar  may 
be  needed 


CHAPTER   CXXXVI 
MILDRED'S    PLANS 

^^T  SUPPOSE  that  when  we  get  home  again,  Mildred 

-■-  will  be  insisting  that  we  reorganize  our  household 
along  the  lines  of  yours,  Bettina,"  laughed  Polly.  "I  can 
just  hear  Selma's  outbursts  at  the  idea  of  any  changes  in 
her  department." 

"But  you  can  always  smile  Selma  out  of  her  'spells,* 
Mother,"  coaxed  Mildred.  "And  just  think,  Selma  doesn't 
even  know  what  a  fireless  cooker  is !  We'll  have  to  explain 
it  to  her." 

"What  can  you  make  in  a  fireless  cooker,  Mildred?" 
asked  Polly  of  her  little  daughter,  who  was  fairly  bursting 
with  her  newly  acquired  information. 

"Oh,  Mother,  this  roast !  Isn't  it  good?  Aunt  Betty  kept 
it  in  the  cooker  almost  four  hours,  and  think  how  much 
gas  that  saved !" 

"Well,  I'll  admit  that  such  an  item  would  appeal  to  your 
father,  Mildred,"  Polly  replied,  "so  I  think  I'll  leave  it  to 
you  to  get  around  him  and  Selma.  I'm  sure,"  she  con- 
tinued, turning  to  Bob,  "that  such  an  undertaking  can  rea- 
sonably be  expected  to  occupy  Mildred  for  some  time.  But 
I  do  like  the  roast." 

"The  roast?"  said  Bob.  "It  is  good,  Polly,  but  you 
needn't  think  that  this  is  a  company  meal,  especially.  Why, 
Bettina  gives  me  company  dinners  every  day!" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Pot  Roast  Gravy 

Boiled  Rice 

Apple  and  Nut  Salad 

Chocolate  Pie 

Coffee 

421 

\ 


422    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 


BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pot  Roast  (Four  portions) 

2j^  lbs.     of     beef     (a  2  t-salt 

rump  roast  ^  t-pepper 

2  T-bacon  drippings  %   C-diced  carrots 

3  T-flour  %   C-diced  turnips 

I  bay  leaf  2  T-chopped  onions 

4  cloves  y^   C-celery 

3  C-boiling    water 

Place  the  bacon  drippings  in  a  frying-pan.  Roll  the  beef 
in  the  flour,  and  when  the  fat  is  hot,  add  the  beef  and 
brown  thoroughly  on  all  sides.  Place  the  meat  in  a  kettle, 
and  add  the  vegetables.  Pour  the  water  in  the  frying-pan 
to  remove  any  fat.  Pour  all  over  the  meat.  Add  the  bay 
leaf,  cloves  and  salt.  Cover  closely  and  allow  to  cook  very 
slowly  for  three  and  a  half  hours.  Turn  the  meat  after  the 
second  hour.    This  is  a  good  fireless  cooker  recipe. 

Gravy 

I  C-stock    I  T-flour 
I  T-water 

Remove  the  meat  from  the  kettle.  Strain  the  stock  into 
a  bowl.  To  the  flour,  add  the  water.  Mix  well,  and  grad- 
ually add  the  stock.  Mix  and  cook  one  minute.  Pour  the 
gravy  over  the  meat  and  reserve  the  remaining  stock  and 
vegetables  for  soup. 

Soup 

Strain  the  vegetables  through  the  strainer,  pressing  thor- 
oughly to  remove  all  the  pulp.  Add  the  stock  and  one-half 
a  cup  of  water.  Reheat  and  serve  for  dinner  with  croutons 
or  salted  wafers. 

Rice 

1/2  C-rice  i  t-salt 

2  C-boiling  water     Ys  t-paprika 
I  T-butter 


With  Bettinas  Best  Becipes  423 

When  the  water  is  boiling,  add  the  salt.  Add  the  rice 
and  allow  it  to  boil  twenty  minutes.  More  water  may  be 
needed.  Stir  occasionally  with  a  fork.  Pour  into  a  strainer, 
and  rinse  thoroughly  with  cold  water.  Toss  into  a  buttered 
vegetable  dish.  Sprinkle  with  paprika  and  dot  with  butter. 
Set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 


CHAPTER  CXXXVII 
A  LUNCHEON  FOR  POLLY 

^^'^rOW  that  this  delicious  little  luncheon  is  over,  Bet- 

■^  ^  tina,"  said  Alice,  "I  want  to  ask  you  something. 
How  did  you  make  the  croquettes  that  cunning  shape?" 

"With  a  conical  ice  cream  mould,  Alice,"  Bettina  an- 
swered. "It  is  very  simple.  And  I'll  tell  you  another  thing. 
I  made  those  croquettes  yesterday,  not  today." 

"You  don't  mean  that  you  fried  them  yesterday?" 

"Yes,  I  did,  Alice.     In  deep  fat." 

"But  they  were  warm,  not  cold." 

"Yes,  for  I  reheated  them  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  be- 
fore I  served  them.  They  really  are  as  good  as  new  when 
treated  that  way.  I  had  always  supposed  that  croquettes 
had  to  be  served  immediately  after  they  were  fried,  and  you 
know  frying  in  deep  fat  is  really  a  nuisance  when  it  has  to 
be  done  at  the  last  minute.  For  instance,  today  I  had  the 
biscuits  to  make,  and  the  soup  and  sweet  potatoes  to  pre- 
pare. And  I  believe  in  being  leisurely  when  giving  a 
luncheon,  so  I  certainly  would  not  serve  croquettes  if  they 
had  to  be  made  that  day.  I  tried  reheating  them  once  when 
Bob  and  I  were  here  alone  and  discovered  that  they  were 
delicious.  So  I've  always,  ever  since,  fried  my  croquettes 
the  day  before." 

"Hereafter  I'll  serve  croquettes  at  luncheon  myself,"  said 
Alice.     "You  have  taught  me  something." 

For  luncheon  that  day  Bettina  served: 

424 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  425 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup  Toasted  Sticks 

Pork  Croquettes  Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Green  Beans 

Biscuit  Cherry   Butter 

Head  Lettuce       French  Dressing 

Date  Pudding  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Cream  of  Pea  Soup  (Four  portions) 

1  C-peas  2  T-butter 
I   C-water        2  C-milk 

%  t-sugar  I  t-salt 

2  T-flour        J4  t-paprika 

Cook  the  peas,  water  and  sugar  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Strain,  and  rub  all  the  pulp  through  the  strainer.  Melt  the 
butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
gradually  add  the  milk.  Boil  one  minute  and  add  the  pulp 
and  liquid  from  the  peas.  Cook  one  minute.  Serve  in  hot 
soup  plates  or  bouillon  cups. 

Toasted  Sticks  (Four  portions) 

3  slices  of  bread     i  T-butter 
H  t-salt 

Cut  the  slices  of  bread  one-half  an  inch  thick.  Butter, 
and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Cut  into  strips,  the  length  of  the 
slice  and  half  an  inch  wide.  Place  on  a  tin  pan,  and  cook 
directly  under  a  fire  or  in  an  oven  until  a  delicate  brown. 
Serve  warm. 

Ground  Pork  Croquettes    (Four  croquettes) 

I  C-chopped,  cooked  pork   ^  T-butter 
Ys  t-paprika  i  T-flour 

J4  t-celery  salt  1/3  C-milk 

y^  t-onion  salt  1/3  C-crumbs 

Ya  t-salt  2  T-egg 

I  T-pimento,   cut  fine  i  T-water 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  paprika,  celery  salt,  onion 
salt,  salt  and  pimento.  Gradually  add  the  milk  and  cook 
thoroughly  for  one  minute.     Add  the  meat  and  allow  the 


426    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

mixture  to  cool.  When  cool,  shape  into  the  desired  shape, 
preferably  conical.  Roll  in  the  crumbs,  dip  in  the  ^gg  and 
water  mixed,  then  dip  in  the  crumbs  and  allow  to  stand 
for  fifteen  minutes  or  more.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Date  Pudding  (Four  portions) 

2  egg-whites       i  t-baking  powder 

y2  C-sugar  y2  C-dates,  cut  fine 

4  T-flour  y2  C-nut  meats,  cut  fine 

Ys  t-salt  54  t-vanilla 

Beat  the  ^gg  whites  thoroughly,  add  the  sugar,  flour,  salt 
and  baking  powder.  Mix  well,  add  the  dates,  nuts  and 
vanilla.  Pile  lightly  in  a  well-buttered  baking-dish.  Place 
the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Allow  the  pudding  to  remain  in  the  oven 
a  little  while  after  the  heat  is  turned  off.  If  cooled  slowly, 
it  will  not  fall.  The  pudding  may  be  baked  in  individual 
moulds  if  preferred,  and  may  be  served  with  whipped  cream. 


CHAPTER    CXXXVIII 
FURS   TO   PUT  AWAY 

<i  A     PENNY  for  your  thoughts !" 

-^^  Bettina  started  in  surprise.  "Why,  Ruth,  I  didn't 
see  you  coming  up  the  walk !" 

"I  knew  you  didn't.  But  what  on  earth  are  you  doing  out 
here  on  your  front  steps?     Enjoying  the  weather?" 

"Indeed  I  am !  Isn't  it  a  wonderful  spring  day?  But  my 
thoughts  weren't  very  poetic,  I  must  admit.  I  was  just 
wondering  if  it  was  too  early  to  put  away  my  furs  for  the 
summer.  I'm  always  tempted  to  do  that  when  the  first 
signs  of  spring  appear,  and  then  I'm  generally  sorry  a  few 
days  later.'* 

"I'll  have  to  put  mine  away  soon,  too.  Do  tell  me,  Bet- 
tina, just  how  you  go  about  it." 

"Well,  I  always  hang  mine  in  the  sun  for  a  while,  then  I 
beat  them  well,  comb  them  out  with  a  steel  comb,  and 
wrap  them  up." 

"With  moth-balls?" 

"That  is  a  good  way,  but  not  at  all  necessary.  I  always 
wrap  mine  in  a  newspaper — a  good  tight  package.  Moths 
don't  like  printer's  ink,  you  know,  and  furs  so  wrapped  are 
perfectly  safe." 

"Then,  Bettina,  you  don't  need  to  add  that  you  label  the 
package,  for  I  know  that  you  do,  you  thoroughly  thorough 
housekeeper !" 

Bettina  laughed.  "Well,  Ruth,  I  do  label  it.  Labelled 
packages  are  so  much  better  to  have,  for  very  often  you 
need  to  get  something  out  in  a  hurry." 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served: 

427 


428    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Broiled    Steak  Lyonnaise    Potatoes 

Bean  Salad 

Bread  Butter 

Date    Rocks  Coffee 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes   (Two  portions) 

2  T-onion 
2  T-butter 
y^  t-paprika 
J^  t-salt 
I  C-coId    boiled    potatoes,  cut  in  J^-inch  cubes 
I  t-chopped  parsley 

Place  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  when 
hot  add  the  onion.  Let  the  onion  cook  until  it  is  brown. 
Add  the  salt  and  parsley,  the  rest  of  the  butter,  the  potatoes 
and  the  paprika.  Stir  well.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are 
well  browned. 

Bean  Salad  (Two  portions) 

1  C-kidney  beans  i  t-salt 

1/2  C-celery,  cut  fine  3  T-chopped  pickle 

2  T-nut  meats  1/3  C-salad  dressing 

2  pieces  of  lettuce 

Mix  the  beans,  celery,  nut  meats,  green  pepper,  pickles 
and  salt.  Add  the  salad  dressing.  Serve  very  cold  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

Date  Rocks 

1  C-sugar  I  t-cinnamon 

y2  C-lard  and  butter  mixed  ^  t-powdered  cloves 

lYz   C-flour  ^  t-vanilla 

y2  t-baking  powder  ^  C-dates,  cut  fine 

2  eggs  y2  C-nut  meats,  cut  fine 

^  t-salt 

Crearn  the  butter  and  lard,  add  the  sugar,  and  mix  well. 
Add  the  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix  and  sift  thoroughly 
the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Add 
the  dates  and  nuts.  Stir  these  dry  ingredients  into  the 
first  mixture.  Add  the  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly  and  drop 
from  the  end  of  the  spoon  upon  a  well  larded  and  floured 
baking  pan.     Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER    CXXXIX 
PLANNING  A   CHILDREN'S   PARTY 

^^/^F  course,  I'll  help  you,   Ruth,"  said  Bettina.     "I'd 

^^  love  to.  A  children's  party !  What  fun  it  will  be  1 
How  many  children  will  be  there?" 

"Twelve  or  fifteen,  I  think.  Now  let  me  tell  you  Ralph's 
own  idea  for  entertainment.  I  suppose  I'm  a  doting  aunt, 
but  it  sounds  very  possible  to  me." 

"Did  Ralph  suggest  the  kind  of  a  party  he  wished?  Well, 
isn't  he  a  clever  boy !  And  he's  only  eleven  years  old, 
too." 

"He  suggested  that  the  invitations  invite  the  children  to 
a  circus.  You  see,  we  could  write  a  little  rhyme  to  that 
effect  on  animal  paper,  or  with  an  animal  picture  pasted  in 
the  corner.  When  the  children  arrive,  we'll  have  the  parade. 
We'll  have  ready  the  horns,  drums,  and  so  forth,  for  the 
band,  and  some  of  the  children  will  represent  the  various 
wild  animals.  The  parade  will  lead  to  the  refreshment  table 
(after  some  circus  games,  perhaps),  which  will  be  set  out- 
doors if  it  is  warm  enough.  The  table  must  represent  a 
circus  ground  (I've  seen  those  paper  circuses  downtown, 
haven't  you?),  and  the  refreshments  must  carry  out  the 
scheme.     So,  Bettina,  do  help  us  to  plan  the  details!" 

Bettina's  dinner  that  night  consisted  of: 

Sliced   Ham   and   Potatoes   en    Casserole 

Baked  Creamed  Cabbage 

Bread  Butter 

Plum  Pudding 

Cocoanut    Pudding 

429 


430     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Sliced  Ham  and  Potatoes  en  Casserole  (Four  portions) 

I  lb.   slice   of  ham   two-  12  cloves 

thirds  of  an  inch  thick  %  t-paprika 

4  new  potatoes  i  t-chopped  parsley 

I  C-water  2  T-flour 

Have  a  frying-pan  very  hot.  Add  the  ham  and  brown 
thoroughly  on  both  sides.  Add  the  water  and  let  boil  for 
one  minute.  Remove  the  ham.  Stick  the  cloves  into  it, 
and  place  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  casserole.  Add  the  parsley 
and  paprika  to  the  water  in  the  pan,  and  pour  the  liquid 
over  the  meat.  Cover  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  halV' 
an  hour.  Roll  the  potatoes  (which  have  been  washed  and 
peeled)  in  the  flour,  and  add  to  the  casserole.  Baste  with 
the  liquid.  Cover  and  cook  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Serve 
in  the  casserole. 

Creamed   Cabbage   Baked    (Four   portions) 

3  C-cabbage,  cut  or  chopped  fine     i  t-salt 

1  qt.  water  i  C-milk 

3  T-flour  %  C-cracker  or  dry  bread  crumbs 

2  T-butter  i  T-butter 

Wash  the  cabbage  and  chop  into  half  inch  pieces.  Cook 
in  boiling  water  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and  rinse  with  cold 
water.  Make  a  white  sauce  by  melting  the  butter,  adding 
the  flour  and  salt,  and  then  adding  the  milk.  Cook  two 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  cabbage,  and  pour 
into  a  well-buttered  open  baking  dish.  Melt  the  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  add  the  crumbs  and  mix  well.  Spread  the 
buttered  crumbs  over  the  top  of  the  cabbage.  Bake  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  in  the  dish. 

Cocoanut  Pudding  (Four  portions) 

I  C-milk  ^A  t-lemon    extract 

}i  t-salt  K  t-vanilla 

3  T-corn  starch  3  T-cocoanut 
I  egg  yolk  2  T-sugar 

Mix  the  corn  starch  and  salt  in  the   upper  part  of  the 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  431 

double  boiler.  Add  the  milk  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Add  the  sugar.  Place  the  upper  in  the  lower  part  of  the 
double  boiler  and  cook,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent 
lumping.  When  very  thick,  add  the  egg-yolk,  the  vanilla 
and  lemon  extracts  and  the  cocoanut.  Beat  one  minute. 
Cook  again  for  three  minutes.  Place  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish.  Beat  the  egg-white  and  when  very  stiff,  add  the  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar.  Pile  lightly  on  the  top  of  the  pud- 
ding and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes  to  brown 
the  meringue. 


CHAPTER    CXL 
THE   PARTY   CIRCUS 

RUTH  and  Bettina  led  "the  parade,"  the  band  at  its 
head,  to  the  cheerful  sunroom,  where  the  table  had 
been  set.  At  sight  of  the  "party"  spread  before  them,  the 
young  musicians  and  the  others  gave  a  sudden  shriek  of 
delight. 

"It's  a  circus !"  explained  Ralph  to  curly-headed  Margery, 
who  was  adding  her  own  piping  voice  to  the  general  din. 

A  small  American  flag  floated  from  a  flag  pole  in  the 
center  of  the  table,  and  around  it  were  arranged  paper 
circus  tents  and  circus  wagons  of  the  five  and  ten  cent 
store  variety.  Animal  crackers  were  all  about,  and  the 
animal  sandwiches  and  animal  cakes  in  flat  baskets  looked 
almost  too  real  to  be  eaten. 

Smooth  boards  on  supports  represented  circus  seats,  and 
on  these  the  children  soon  clambered,  eager  to  eat  as  chil- 
dren always  are. 

The  paper  napkins,  decorated  with  animals,  were  folded 
before  the  places  to  represent  tents.  The  salad  faces,  which 
Ralph  called  "clowns,"  leered  up  from  the  plates. 

But  the  joy  was  not  to  be  all  in  seeing.  There  was  a 
favor  for  each  child  to  carry  away,  the  favors  from  the 
table  being  claimed  by  matching  the  numbers  on  each  one 
with  a  corresponding  number  on  the  pieces  of  candy  passed 
at  the  close  of  the  meal. 

The  refreshments  consisted  of: 

432 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  433 

Clown  Salad  Animal  Sandwiches 

Picnic  Lemonade 

Brick  Ice  Cream  Fancy  Cakes 

Candies 


BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Sandwiches  (Forty) 

3  loaves  bread  3  hard-cooked  eggs 

5^  lb.  butter  3  T-chopped  pickles 

i^   C-ham,  minced  or  ground  fine  2/2,  C-salad  dressing 

1/3  t-salt 

Chop  the  ham,  eggs  and  pickles  very  fine.  Add  the  salt 
and  salad  dressing.  Cut  the  bread  very  thin  and  match  the 
pieces  in  pairs.  Spread  one  of  a  pair  with  the  ham  mixture 
and  spread  the  other  side  v^ith  butter  which  has  been  mixed 
and  softened  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Place  the  two  pieces 
of  bread  together  and  press  firmly.  Moisten  the  cooky 
cutter  with  water  and  cut  evenly  the  desired  shape. 

Clown  Salad  (Twelve  portions) 

12  rounds   of  sliced  pineapple     24  filberts 
12  T-salad  dressing  2  canned  pimentos 

12  pieces    of    lettuce 

Wash  the  lettuce  carefully.  Roll  and  cut  into  fine  shreds. 
Arrange  a  portion  on  each  serving  plate.  Place  a  slice  of 
pineapple  on  each  portion  and  very  carefully  place  the  salad 
dressing  on  it  so  that  it  just  covers  the  circle  of  pineapple. 
Arrange  two  filberts  on  top  to  represent  eyes,  and  cut  the 
pimento  in  a  strip  to  represent  the  mouth.  Cut  small  triangu- 
lar pieces  of  pimento  to  represent  the  nose.  Arrange  these  as 
features  on  the  pineapple  and  serve  at  once. 

Fancy  Cakes  (Eighteen  cakes) 

Yz  C-butter  ^  C-milk 

I  C-sugar  i^  C-flour 

8  egg-yolks  2  t-baking  powder 

2  t-lemon    extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  mix  well.  Beat  the 
egg-yolks   until   very   thick,   and   add   to    the   first   mixture. 


434     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  flour  and  baking-powder  and  add 
the  milk  alternately  with  the  flour  mixture,  beating  well. 
Beat  two  minutes  after  mixing.  Add  the  extract.  Pour  to 
the  thickness  of  one  inch  into  flat  pans  lined  with  buttered 
paper.  Bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  when  cool,  cut  into  shapes  with  fancy 
animal  cutters.  The  individual  cakes  may  be  iced  if  de- 
sired. 


CHAPTER    CXLI 
PLANNING  A   LUNCHEON 

^^TT  won't  be  hard,  Ruth,  if  you  plan  it  out  in  detail 

•*-  several  days  before.  Decide  on  the  menu,  and  if  you 
find  that  some  one  dish  is  going  to  cause  more  trouble  than 
it's  worth,  plan  something  else  in  its  place." 

**If  it  weren't  for  Aunt  Gertrude  I  shouldn't  worry  at  all, 
but  she  is  such  a  wonderful  housekeeper !  And  I  am  de- 
termined that  Mother  sha'n't  have  one  bit  of  the  responsi- 
bility. She's  to  feel  herself  just  as  much  a  guest  as  Aunt 
Gertrude." 

"I  think  it's  a  lovely  thing  for  you  to  do,  Ruth.  Now 
let  me  tell  you  how  I  think  you  should  go  about  it.  Make 
a  visit  to  your  grocery  store  or  to  the  market  tomorrow, 
and  notice  the  good  things  that  are  in  sea  •  n  and  inexpen- 
sive. Build  your  menu  around  them.  When  you  ge^  home, 
sit  down  with  a  paper  and  pencil  and  plan  everything  out. 
Go  into  detail,  even  if  it  takes  several  hours  of  planning. 
It  will  be  well  worth  it.  I  don't  mean  by  that  an  elaborate 
luncheon ;  it  ought  to  be  a  simple  and  delicious  one,  but 
complete  in  every  detail.  When  I  plan,  I  write  down  the 
things  that  I  can  do  the  day  before,  and  even  the  day  before 
that.  You  know  there  are  always  so  many  things  to  see  to 
— polishing  the  silver  and  writing  the  name  cards  and  see- 
ing that  the  table  linen  is  in  order.  It  ought  to  be  planned 
so  that  the  day  of  the  party  won't  be  crowded  full  of  'last 
minute  things.'  Come  into  the  kitchen  with  me,  Ruth;  I 
must  baste  my  pork  tenderloin." 

That  night  Bettina  served: 

435 


436     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Pork  Tenderloin  Baked  Potatoes 

Bread  Butter 

Raspberry  Jam 

Vegetable  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

Tapioca  Pudding 

Coffee 

BETTINA^S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Pork  Tenderloin   (Three  portions) 

I  lb.  pork  tenderloin     ^  t-paprika 

1  t-salt  I  t-chopped  parsley 

2  T-water  i  T-lemon  juice 

Have  the  tenderloin  cut  in  two-inch  pieces  and  flattened. 
Place  these  in  a  small  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
paprika  and  add  the  water.  Cover,  and  cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Turn  and  baste  frequently. 
When  done,  place  on  a  heated  platter,  pour  the  parsley  and 
lemon  juice  over  the  top  and  serve  immediately. 

Vegetable  Salad   (Three  portions) 

1  tomato  I  t-salt 

9  slices  of  cucumber     %  t-paprika 

2  T-chopped  onion  2  T-chopped  green  pepper 
I  T-chopped  pimento       2  T-nut  meats 

3  lettuce   leaves 

Wash  the  lettuce  carefully  and  arrange  on  individual  serv- 
ing dishes.  Place  upon  each  lettuce  leaf  a  slice  of  tomato, 
three  slices  of  cucumber  and  one-third  of  each  of  the  other 
ingredients.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika.  Pour  the 
salad  dressing  over  the  top  and  serve  very  cold. 

Bettina  Salad  Dressing 

2  egg-yolks       H  C-vinegar 

1  T-sugar         1/3  C-sour  creant 

J/2  t-salt  2  T-pimento   liquor    (the 

2  T-flour  juice  from  the  can) 

Beat  the  egg-yolks,  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  flour.  Mix 
well  and  add  the  vinegar,  pimento  liquor  and  water.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  until  very  thick.  When  cool,  add  the 
sour  cream,  and  pour  over  the  salad. 


CHAPTER    CXLII 
THE  NEW  CAR 

^^■p\  O  stay  to  dinner,  Ruth!"  begged  Bettina.     "Bob  is 

^-^  going  to  drive  the  new  car  out  when  he  comes, 
and  we'll  have  him  take  us  for  a  spin  after  dinner." 

"Oh,  Bettina,  has  Bob  really  bought  it?  Will  you  really 
have  a  car  of  your  own  ?" 

"Yes,  indeed,  we  will.  I  can  hardly  realize  it  myself, 
and  although  I'm  so  happy  over  it,  I  have  a  little  haunting 
fear  that  perhaps  it  is  too  great  an  extravagance.  But 
we'll  enjoy  it  so !" 

"Of  course  you  will.  I'm  so  glad !  Won't  the  summer 
be  delightful  when  you  can  get  out  into  the  country  every 
day !" 

"Ruth,  you  must  stay  to  dinner  and  see  the  car  for  your- 
self! I  planned  a  special  little  celebration  dinner,  a  kind 
of  salad  that  Bob  particularly  likes,  and  a  good  dessert, 
too.  And  now,  if  you'll  come  into  the  kitchen  with  me,  I'll 
show  you  how  to  make  peanut  butter  rolls.  You  never 
heard  of  them?  Well,  they're  a  little  like  pinwheel  biscuit. 
Don't  you  remember  the  pinwheel  biscuit  that  I  make  some- 
times— baking  powder  biscuit  dough  rolled  out  and  spread 
with  butter  and  sugar  and  cinnamon — then  rolled  up  and 
cut  like  cinnamon  rolls  and  baked?" 

"Of  course,  I  remember,  Bettina!  They're  the  best  little 
things,  and  so  easy  to  make !" 

"Well,  these  peanut  butter  rolls  are  like  them,  but  spread 

437 


438     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

with  butter  and  peanut  butter.     Come  into  the  kitchen  and 
rU  show  you  how  they're  made." 
For  dinner  they  had : 

Lamb  Chops  Sauted  Potatoes 

Creamed  Peas 

Peanut  Butter  Rolls 

Pear  Salad  Cheese  Wafers 

Chocolate  Pie 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Peanut  Butter  and   Fruit   Rolls    (Eight  rolls) 

iH  C-flour  ^  C-milk 

3  t-baking  powder      2  T-peanut  butter 

2  T-lard  3  T-currants 
^  t-salt  H  T-butter 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  thoroughly,  cut 
in  the  lard  with  a  kuife  until  the  consistency  of  cornmeal. 
Add  the  milk,  mxing  with  a  knife  until  a  soft  dough  is 
formed.  More  milk  may  be  needed;  this  depends  on  the 
consistency  of  the  flour.  Pat  into  a  rectangular  shape,  on 
a  floured  board  or  on  a  paper.  The  dough  should  be  half 
an  inch  thick.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  peanut  butter 
and  spread  on  the  biscuit  dough.  Sprinkle  the  currants  on 
the  top.  Roll  up  carefully,  over  and  over  like  a  cinnamon 
roll.  Cut  off  pieces  half  an  inch  wide  and  pat  them  down 
in  a  tin  pan.     Bake  eighteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Pear  Salad   (Three  portions) 

3  halves  of  pears         2  T-nut  meats 
54  C-cottage  cheese     2  dates,  cut  fine 

^  t-salt  I  T-pimento,  cut  fine 

y^  t-paprika  5  T-salad  dressing 

3  lettuce  leaves 

Mix  the  cottage  cheese,  salt,  paprika,  nut  meats,  dates 
and  pimento  thoroughly.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  salad 
dressing.  Arrange  the  pears  on  the  lettuce  leaves  and 
place  one  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  on  each  portion.    Place 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  439 

a  tablespoon   of  salad  dressing  on   the  top.     Serve  very- 
cold. 

Cheese  Wafers 

6  salted  wafers  ^  T-pimento,  cut  fine 

H  T-butter  Yg  t-salt 

2  T-yellow  cream  cheese     Ys  t-paprika 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  cheese,  pimento,  salt  and 
paprika  and  mix  into  a  paste.  Spread  carefully  on  top  of 
the  wafers.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  delicate 
brown.     Serve  with  the  salad. 


MAY. 

Scrub  and  polish, — sweep  and  cleans- 
Fling  your  windows  wide! 

See,  the  trees  are  clad  in  green! 
Coax  the  spring  inside! 

Home,  he  shining  fair  to-day 

For  the  guest  whose  name  is  May! 


Mil  AUlfifcH  \il  M 


CHAPTER    CXLIII 
IN  HOUSECLEANING  TIME 


"G 


OODNESS 


gracious, 

Bettina. 

half-past 


"Surely    it    can't   be 
five  already !" 

"Yes,  it  is,  Bettina.  Exactly 
that!"  said  Ruth,  glancing  at 
her  tiny  wrist  watch.  "But 
Bob  won't  be  home  till  six,  will 
he?" 

"No,  but  I  want  to  have  din- 
ner ready  when  he  arrives. 
You  see,  as  I  told  you  before,  I  simply  shouldn't  have  gone 
to  Mary's  this  afternoon.  My  curtains  are  down  and  my 
rugs  are  up,  and  my  house  isn't  an  attractive  place  for  a 
man  to  come  home  to,  to  say  the  least.  And  then  to  come 
straight  from  a  party  and  give  Bob  a  pick-up  lunch  instead 

of  a  full  meal,  will  be " 

"The  last  straw?    What  had  you  planned  for  lunch?" 
"Well,  I  have  some  soup  all  made,  ready  to  reheat.    Then 
I  think  I'll  have  banana  salad,  tea,  and  hot  baking-powder 
biscuits." 

"De-licious !"  said  Ruth,  with  a  Teddy-fied  grin.     "I  be- 
lieve I'll  invite  myself  to  stay !" 

"Good!     You  can  make  the  salad  while  Vm  mixing  the 
biscuits.    I  also  have  some  chocolate  cookies,  and  1*11  open 

a  jar  of  canned  peaches " 

"And  I'll  be  so  bright  and  scintillating  that  old  Bobbie 
won't  even  miss  the  curtains  and  the  rugs  !** 
That  night  Bettina  served: 

441 


442    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Bettina    Soup  Oyster    Crackers 

Banana  Salad 

Hot  Biscuits 

Canned  Peaches  Chocolate  Cookies 

Tea 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bettina  Soup  (Three  portions) 

3  C-meat  stock  (left  over)       i  T-sliced  onion 
I/2  C-cooked  rice  K  t-salt 

^2  C-tomato  pulp  %  t-paprika 

3  celery  leaves 

Add  the  rice,  tomato  pulp,  onion,  salt,  paprika  and  celery 
leaves  to  the  meat  stock.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes  over  a 
slow  fire.  Strain  and  serve  in  hot  soup  dishes  or  bouillon 
cups. 

Banana  Salad  (Three  portions) 

2  bananas  i  T-lemon  juice 

5^  C-shelled      peanuts,  l4  t-salt 

broken  in  halves  ^  t-paprika 

%  C-celery,    cut    small  ^  C-salad      dressing 

3  lettuce  leaves 

Cut  the  bananas  in  one-fourth  inch  cubes.  Add  the  lemon 
juice,  mixing  thoroughly.  Add  the  peanuts,  celery,  salt  and 
paprika.  Add  the  salad  dressing,  mixing  lightly  with  a 
silver  fork.  Pile  on  the  lettuce  leaves  which  have  been 
washed  and  arranged  on  a  serving  dish.    Serve  immediately. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  (Eight  biscuits) 

VA  C-flour  ^  t-salt 

3  t-baking    powder     i^  T-lard 
1/2  C-milk- 

Mix  and  sift  well  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cut 
in  the  lard  with  a  knife  until  the  consistency  of  cornmeal. 
Add  the  milk  slowly,  stirring  with  a  knife  until  the  dough 
is  soft  enough  to  be  handled  without  sticking  to  the  fingers. 
Place  on  a  floured  board,  pat  into  shape,  with  the  hands,  to 
a  thickness  of  two-thirds  of  an  inch.  Cut  with  a  biscuit 
cutter.  Place  the  biscuits  side  by  side  in  a  tin  pan.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  on  a  folded 
napkin. 


CHAPTER   CXLIV 
MRS.  DIXON  HAPPENS  IN 

^*T  MUST  hurry  home  to  get  dinner,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon. 

■■-  "See,  Bettina,  I've  been  to  the  market!  Isn't  this  a 
fine  big  cantaloupe?    I  have  two  more  just  like  it.     Frank 

is  very  fond  of  them,  but "  she  added  ruefully,  "I  like 

them  cold,  of  course,  and  after  IVe  fixed  them  and  had  them 
in  the  refrigerator  a  while,  everything  in  it — milk,  butter 
and  eggs — has  the  cantaloupe  taste!" 

"I'll  tell  you  how  you  can  prevent  that,  Charlotte.  Of 
course  they  must  be  very  cold  when  served,  but  I  never 
prepare  them  till  just  before  the  meal.  I  put  them  in  the 
ice  box  whole,  in  a  paper  sack,  taking  care  that  the  mouth 
of  the  sack  is  closed.  They  become  very  cold  that  way, 
and  at  the  same  time  can't  affect  the  other  food." 

"I'm  so  glad  you  told  me  that,  Bettina.  I've  learned  a 
great  many  things  from  you,  haven't  I?  Oh,  yes,  another 
thing  puzzles  me.  I  like  chipped  ice  served  in  and  with 
the  cantaloupe,  and  I  don't  own  any  tool  for  preparing  the 
ice.  I  do  fix  it  somehow,  of  course,  but  I've  wondered  how 
other  people  manage." 

"Well,  there  are  regular  ice  shavers,  you  know;  but  I 
haven't  one,  either.  I  keep  a  salt  sack  that  I  use  for  that 
purpose  whenever  I  need  just  a  little  chipped  ice.  It  isn't 
hard  to  break  off  a  piece  small  enough  to  go  in  a  salt  sack ; 
in  fact,  you  usually  have  one  in  your  ice  box  already.  T 
put  it  in  the  sack  and  break  it  fine  with  the  flat  side  of  a 
small  hatchet." 

443 


444     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Well,  Fve  learned  something  more,  and  Til  use  the 
knowledge  tomorrow  evening.  I  must  be  going  now.  How 
lovely  those  asters  are  on  your  dinner  table!  They  seem 
to  prophesy  an  especially  good  meal!  Do  tell  me  what  you 
are  going  to  have !  I  never  can  think  of  a  variety — simple 
meat  dishes  are  my  bugbear.'* 

"We  have  veal  chops  for  tonight — just  plain  veal  chops 
and  boiled  new  potatoes  and  carrots  with  Bechamel  sauce." 

"Gracious  me !  Here  comes  Bob.  I  must  hurry  along  or 
Frank  will  be  home  before  I  am." 

Bettina's  dinner  that  evening  was  made  up  of : 

Veal   Chops  New   Potatoes 

Carrots  Bechamel    Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Peaches  Custard  Sauce 


BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Veal   Chops    (Two   portions) 

2  chops     %  t-paprika 
I  t-salt       4  T-flour 
I  T-fat 

Trim  and  wipe  chops  one-half  inch  thick,  which  are  cut 
from  the  thick  part  of  the  leg.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  roll  in  flour.  Put  the  fat  (bacon  fat  or  lard)  in  the 
pan,  and  when  hot,  add  the  chops.  Brown  both  sides  evenly 
and  allow  to  cook  ten  minutes. 

Creamed  Carrots   (Two  portions) 

I  C-carrots     3  C-boiling  water 
I  t-salt 

Carrots  should  not  be  peeled,  but  after  being  scrubbed 
well  they  should  be  scraped  with  a  knife.  Cut  into  one- 
half  inch  cubes,  cook  in  boiling  water  (salted)  twenty-five 
minutes,  or  until  soft  when  pierced  with  a  knitting  needle. 
Drain  and  serve  with  Bechamel  sauce. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  445 

Bechamel  Sauce  (Two  portions) 

I  T-butter        ^  t-pepper 
I  T-flour  I  egg-yolk 

li  t-salt  2/3  C-milk 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  mix 
well.  Gradually  stir  in  the  milk.  Cook  until  it  thickens 
slightly.  Add  the  beaten  egg-yolk,  cook  one  minute  and 
serve  immediately  with  one  cup  of  diced  carrots. 


CHAPTER   CXLV     * 

ENGAGEMENT   PRESENTS 

^^1^  UTH   has   had   some   of  the   loveliest   engagement 
-■-^  presents,"  said  Bettina  to  Bob  across  the  dinner  table. 
**And  some  that  are  so  practical  and  sensible !" 

"Did  you  see  her  this  afternoon?" 

"Yes,  and  we  walked  over  to  the  new  house.  She  has 
had  Fred  put  up  a  shelf  in  the  kitchen  for  her  cook-books 
and  recipe  card  box,  and  she  finds  that  she  really  has  quite 
a  library !  And  the  various  engagement  gifts  are  all  put 
away.  In  fact  the  bungalow  is  nearly  ready  for  use.  IVe 
told  Ruth  that  she  might  write  a  magazine  article  on  'En- 
gagement Presents,'  using  her  own  for  illustrations." 

"What  does  she  have?" 

"Well,  a  dear  old  Aunt  of  Bob's  presented  her  with  some 
wonderful  kitchen  scales — an  aid  to  economy.  Then  it  seems 
to  me  that  every  friend  who  has  some  favorite  kitchen  device 
has  given  one  to  her — she  has  egg-beaters,  waffle-irons,  cream- 
whippers,  silver-polishers,  cases  for  linen  and  silver — oh,  every- 
thing you  can  think  of !" 

"What  did  you  give  her?" 

"The  cards  and  card  box  for  her  indexed  recipes.  I  in- 
cluded many  of  my  own  recipes,  you  know.  That  is  to  be 
my  own  particular  engagement  gift  to  all  my  friends." 

That  night  Bettina  served : 

446 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  447 

Salmon  Loaf  Salmon  Sauce 

Baked  Potatoes 

Bread  Butter 

Marble    Pudding  Whipped    Cream 

Iced  Tea 

BETTINA^S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Salmon  Loaf   (Two  portions) 

2/z  C-flaked,    canned    salmon     ^  t-paprika 
1/3  C-cracker   crumbs  i  ^gg 

y2  t-salt  1/3  C-milk 

Flake  the  salmon  apart  with  a  silver  fork,  add  the  crumbs, 
salt  and  paprika.  Beat  the  egg  and  add  the  milk.  Add  to 
the  first  mixture.  Place  in  a  well-buttered  mould  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Allow  to  stand 
three  minutes,  remove  from  the  mould,  and  place  on  a 
warmed  platter.  Pour  salmon  sauce  around  the  loaf  and 
serve  at  once. 

Salmon  Sauce  (Two  portions) 

3  T-flour  I  tgg,  hard-cooked  and 

2  T-butter  chopped  fine 

%  C-liquor  from  the     ^  t-salt 

salmon  i  T-pickle,  chopped  fine 

2/3  C-milk  Yz  t-chopped  parsley 

^  t-paprika 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  salmon  liquor.  Add  the  flour, 
salt  and  paprika  and  mix  well.  Add  the  milk  and  cook  two 
minutes.  Add  the  tgg,  pickle  and  parsley,  mix  well,  and 
pour  around  the  loaf. 

Baked  Marble  Pudding 

1  C-flour  I  tgg 

2  t-baking   powder       2  T-melted  butter 
y^.  t-cinnamon  %   C-water 

Ys  t-salt  Y2  t-vanilla 

Y2  C-sugar  Y2  square  of  chocolate,  melted 

Mix  and  sift  the  sugar,  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and 
cinnamon.  Add  the  egg-yolk,  water  and  vanilla.  Beat  one 
minute.    Add  the  &gg  white  stiffly  beaten.    Mix  well.    Add 


448     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

the  butter,  melted.  Divide  the  mixture,  and  to  half  add 
the  melted  chocolate.  Prepare  a  loaf-cake  pan  or  a  small 
round  tin  with  waxed  paper.  Fill  it  with  both  mixtures, 
first  placing  in  it  a  tablespoon  of  the  plain  mixture,  then  a 
tablespoon  of  the  chocolate  mixture,  then  the  plain,  until 
all  is  used,  and  the  pudding  has  a  marbled  appearance. 
Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  warm  with 
whipped  cream. 


CHAPTER  CXLVI 


WITH  HOUSECLEANING  OVER 

CCT)  ROILED  steak  and  French  fried  potatoes  !    Whew!" 

-D  said  Bob,  strolling  into  Bettina's  shining  kitchen. 
'*Why  so  festive?" 

"Because  I've  just  finished  hcuse-cleaning,  Bob,  and  I 
want  to  celebrate.    Doesn't  everything  look  splendid?" 

"Well,  it  looked  good  to  me  before,  but  now  that  I  think 
of  it,  I  believe  there  is  an  extra  shine  on  things.  What 
makes  that  nickel  there  lOok  so  bright  and  silvery?'* 

"I  cleaned  it  with  a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  powdered  borax. 
That  always  makes  nickel  bright  and  clean." 

"I  might  have  done  that  for  you,  Betty.  Why  didn't  you 
suggest  it  to  me?" 

"Oh,  this  house  is  so  small  and  dear  that  I  enjoyed  every 
minute  of  my  house-cleaning.  And  I  didn't  want  to  bother 
you  with  it  at  all." 

"Well,  I'll  help  now  with  dinner.     What  can  I  do?" 

"Will  you  cut  the  bread,  dear?  There's  the  steel  bread 
knife;  doesn't  it  look  bright  and  shiny,  too?  I  cleaned  all 
my  steel  knives  by  dipping  them  into  the  earth  in  a  flower 
pot  I  keep  filled  for  that  purpose.  Well,  I  think  dinner  is 
ready  now,  Bob." 

For  dinner  they  had : 

Broiled   Steak  French    Fried   Potatoe? 

Stuffed   Onions 

Bread  Currant  Jelly 

Orange  Tapioca  Whipped  Cream 

Coffee 

449 


450    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Stuffed  Onions  (Two  portions) 

2  large  Spanish  onions     ^  t-salt 

3  T-soft  bread  crumbs       2  t-melted  butter 
I  t-egg  Vi  t-celery  salt 

H  t-chopped  parsley  ^   C-milk 

Cook  the  whole  onions  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  but 
not  broken.  When  the  fork  pierces  them  easily,  drain  off 
the  water  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  This  makes  them  firm 
for  stuffing. 

Remove  the  centers  carefully.  Add  the  removed  portion, 
chopped  fine,  to  the  crumbs,  egg,  parsley,  salt,  butter  and 
celery  salt.  Mix  thoroughly.  Fill  the  holes  with  the  mix- 
ture. Place  the  onions  in  a  small  pan.  Sprinkle  the  salt 
over  the  onion  and  pour  over  it  the  milk.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Orange  Tapioca  (Two  portions) 

4  T-orange  juice     2/3  C-boiling  water  ^ 

2  t-lemon    juice  2  T-powdered  tapioca 

5  T-sugar  K  t-salt 

I  orange 

Stir  the  tapioca  into  the  orange  and  lemon  juice.  Add 
the  sugar  and  salt.  Let  it  stand  for  three  minutes  while 
boiling  the  water.  Add  the  water.  Place  directly  over  the 
fire.  Stir  constantly  and  cook  till  thick  (about  three  min- 
utes). Peei  the  orange  and  break  apart  in  sections.  Line 
a  glass  sc.ving  dish  with  it  and  pour  the  tapioca  over  the  sec- 
tions,    berve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Whipped  Cream 

1/3  C-thick  cream     1/2  t-lemon  extract 
2  T-sugar  K  t-vanilla  extract 

Place  the  cream  in  a  round-bottomed,  chilled  bowl.  Beat 
until  thick  and  fluffy.  Add  the  sugar,  lemon  and  vanilla. 
Mix  well.  Pile  lightly  on  the  orange  tapioca  and  serve 
very  cold. 


CHAPTER    CXLVII 
SPRING    MARKETING 

^kT  'VE  been  to  the  market,  Bettina,"  said  Charlotte,  "and 

A     I  thought  I'd  stop  here  just  a  moment  to  rest." 

"Come  in,"  said  Bettina,  "and  set  that  heavy  basket  down. 
Why  didn't  you  leave  it  for  Frank  to  bring?" 

"Because  I  needed  the  things  for  dinner." 

"What  did  you  get?" 

"Oh,  the  same  old  fresh  vegetables,"  said  Charlotte  wear- 
ily. "A  month  ago  they  seemed  so  wonderful — strawber- 
ries, asparagus,  new  potatoes  and  all — but  there  are  no  new 
ways  to  cook  them!  One  day  I  cream  the  asparagus  and 
the  next  day  I  serve  it  on  toast." 

"Do  you  ever  make  asparagus  salad?"  asked  Bettina. 
"We  are  very  fond  of  it.  Cold  cooked  asparagus  is  good 
with  any  kind  of  salad  dressing,  but  we  like  best  a  very 
simple  kind  that  I  often  make — oil  and  lemon  juice  and 
cheese." 

"Cheese?"  echoed  Charlotte  in  surprise. 

"Yes,  cottage  cheese  and  Roquefort  cheese  are  equally 
good.  And,  Charlotte,  if  you  want  some  delicious  straw- 
berry desserts " 

"Oh,  I  do !  We're  so  tired  of  shortcake  and  plain  straw- 
berries !" 

"I  know  several  good  strawberry  dishes.  Come,  let  me 
show  you  one  that  I  made  today !" 

Bettina's  dinner  consisted  of: 

451 


452      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Veal  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Bread  Butter 

Asparagus  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

Strawberry  Tapioca 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Asparagus  Salad   (Three  portions) 

i8  stalks   of  asparagus    3  C-water 

V2  t-salt  3  pieces  of  lettuce 

Wash  the  asparagus  and  cut  it  in  six-inch  pieces.  Cook 
for  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  (longer  if  necessary). 
Rinse  with  cold  water,  handling  carefully.  Arrange  six 
stalks  on  each  piece  of  lettuce.     Serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Asparagus  Salad  Dressing  (Three  portions) 

4  T-olive  oil  Ya  t-salt 

2  T-lemon  juice     Ya  t-paprika 
I  T-cottage    cheese 

Beat  the  oil,  and  add  the  lemon  juice  slowly.  Add  the 
salt  and  paprika.  Beat  one  minute.  Add  the  cheese.  Serve 
very  cold,  poured  over  the  asparagus  salad. 

Strawberry  Tapioca 

3  T-granulated  tapioca     Y9,  t-salt 

4  T-sugar  Y2  t-vanilla 

iYa  C-hot  water  i  C-strawberries 

Ya  C-sugar 

Wash  and  hull  the  strawberries,  and  cut  in  halves  with  a 
spoon.  Add  the  sugar,  mix  well,  and  set  in  a  cold  place. 
Mix  the  tapioca,  the  sugar  and  the  salt.  Add  the  boiling 
water  slowly.  Cook  ten  minutes  in  the  upper  part  of  the 
double  boiler.  Add  the  vanilla.  When  cold,  add  the  straw- 
berries.    Serve  very  cold  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


CHAPTER    CXLVIII 
PLANS    FOR   THE   WEDDING 

^^/^H,  Bob!"  cried  Bettina,  "don't  you  hope  it  won't 

vy    rain?" 

"Rain?  When?  Tonight?"  asked  Bob,  absent-mindedly, 
for  he  was  busily  eating  the  first  cherry  cobbler  of  the 
season,  and  enjoying  it,  too. 

"No,  stupid !  I'm  thinking  about  the  wedding — Ruth's 
wedding." 

"And  Fred's  wedding,  too,"  added  Bob.  "You  talk  as  if 
Ruth  were  the  only  one  who  is  vitally  interested." 

"Fred's  wedding,  then.  For,  you  see,  the  ceremony  is  to 
be  in  that  darling  summer  house  if  it  doesn't  rain.  If  it 
does  it  will  have  to  be  in  the  solarium.  The  bridesmaids 
and  matrons  (if  it  is  an  outdoor  wedding)  are  to  carry  the 
prettiest  green  silk  parasols  that  you  ever  saw.  They  will 
be  Ruth's  gifts  to  us.  Over  our  arms  we'll  carry  plain  soft 
straw  hats  filled  with  pink  peonies,  and  lots  of  trailing 
greenery.  Won't  that  be  lovely?  For  you  know  we  are 
all  to  wear  short  white  dresses  and  white  shoes." 

"And  what  am  I  to  do?" 

"You're  to  be  an  usher  and  help  carry  the  green  ropes 
that  form  the  aisle." 

"Ropes?" 

"Yes,  plain  ropes  covered  with  greenery.  Will  you  have 
some  more  cherry  cobbler.  Bob?" 

That  night  for  dinner  Bettina  served : 

Pork  Tenderloin  Creamed    New   Potatoes 

Cauliflower  with  Butter  Sauce 

Vegetable   Salad  French    Dressing 

Cherry  Cobbler  Cream 

Coffee 

453 


454      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Vegetable   Salad    (Four  portions) 

2  tomatoes  ^  t-celery  salt 

12  slices    of    cucumber       i  t-salt 
4  T-cottage   cheese  ^  t-paprika 

8  pieces  of  lettuce 

Arrange  two  pieces  of  lettuce  on  each  salad  plate.  Cut 
the  tomatoes  in  half  and  arrange  on  the  lettuce.  Place 
three  slices  of  cucumber  on  each  piece  of  tomato.  Add  a 
tablespoon  of  cheese  to  each  portion.  Sprinkle  with  celery- 
salt,  salt  and  paprika.     Serve  at  once  with  French  dressing, 

Bettina's    French   Dressing   (Four  portions) 

2  T-lemon  juice       i  t-salt 
5  T-olive  oil  ^  t-paprika 

I  t-chopped   parsley- 
Mix  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  paprika  and  parsley.    Add  the 
oil  slowly,  beating  vigorously  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  or  a 
fork.     Beat  until  the  mixture  becomes  a  little  thick.    Pour 
over  the  salad. 

Cherry   Cobbler    (Four   portions) 

2  C-cherries,  stemmed       i   C-flour 

and  pitted  i  t-baking  powder 

2/3  C-sugar  J4  t-salt 

2  t-flour  I  T-sugar 

I  T-water  2  T-butter 

^  t-salt  6  T-milk 

Mix  the  cherries,  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Allow  to  stand 
five  minutes.  Add  the  water.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a 
deep  glass  or  china  baking  dish.  Mix  and  sift  the  flour, 
baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar.  Cut  in  the  butter  with  a 
knife.  Add  the  milk,  mixing  until  a  soft  dough  is  formed. 
Shape  it  with  the  hands  to  fit  over  the  cherries.  Make 
three  slits  in  the  dough  to  permit  the  steam  to  escape. 
Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes. 
6erve  in  the  baking  dish.  Plain  cream  or  whipped  cream 
should  be  served  with  the  cobbler. 


CHAPTER    CXLIX 
ENTERTAINING  THE  WEDDING  GUESTS 

^^TF  you  girls  only  would,  my  dear,"  Ruth's  mother  had 

-*-  responded  to  Bettina's  suggestion  that  she  and  Alice 
entertain  Ruth's  house  guests  the  entire  day  before  the  wed- 
ding, *'you  have  no  idea  what  a  load  would  be  taken  off  my 
mind !" 

"And  Alice  and  I  would  so  enjoy  helping  you,"  Bettina  had 
replied.  "And  remember,  we  mean  the  whole  day,  breakfast 
and  all !" 

Luckily,  the  day  before  the  wedding  dawned  warm  and  clear 
At  eight  o'clock  Harry  and  Bob  drove  them  all  in  automobiles 
to  a  lovely  country  spot  in  which  the  girls  served  an  outdoor 
breakfast.  The  morning  was  spent  in  motoring  and  luncheon 
was  eaten  at  a  charming  downtown  tea-room.  Then  they  were 
whisked  off  to  Bettina's  little  home  for  an  informal  afternoon, 
and  Harry  and  Bob,  feeling  that  they  had  indeed  been  model 
husbands,  departed  for  their  respective  offices. 

"The  girl  from  Kentucky  has  volunteered  to  sing,"  whis- 
pered Alice  to  Ruth.  "She's  a  dear.  Do  you  suppose  we  can 
keep  Aunt  Jenny  from  talking  for  half  an  hour?" 

That  afternoon  the  following  refreshments  were  served  on 
trays : 

Fruit  Salad  Bettina   Sandwiches 

Orange  Sherbet 

Bettin?   Cake,  White   Mountain   Cream   Icing 

Coffee 

Nuts  Candy 

455 


456      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Fruit  Salad   (Twelve  portions) 

3  C-diced    pineapple  ]/2  C-marshmallows,  cut  fine 

I  C-nut   meats,   cut   in    small       H  C-red  cherries,  cut  fine 
pieces  1/3  C-figs,  cut  fine 

14  C-oranges,     cut     in     small         i  C-salad  dressing 
pieces  14  C-whipped  cream 

12  pieces  lettuce 

Mix  the  pineapple,  nut  meats,  oranges,  marshmallows,  cher- 
ries and  figs.  Mix  the  whipped  cream  and  the  salad  dressing. 
Pour  this  over  the  fruit.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  which  have 
been  washed  and  placed  on  serving  plates.     Serve  immediately. 

Bettina  Sandwiches   (Twelve  portions) 

y2  C-creamed  cheese  ^   C-pimento  olives,  chopped  fine 

3  T-pickles,  chopped  fine       2  T-salad  dressing 
%  t-salt 

Mix  the  cheese,  pickles,  olives  and  salt.  Add  the  salad  dress- 
ing. Spread  this  mixture  between  two  thin  pieces  of  buttered 
bread.     Press  firmly  together  and  cut  into  fancy  shapes. 

Bettina  Cake  (Twelve  squares) 

54   C-butter  i  t-baking  powder 

^y4   C-sugar  %   C-strained  orange  juice 

4  egg-yolks  14  t-orange  extract 

%  C-flour  l4  t-lemon  extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add  the 
egg-yolks  which  have  been  well  beaten.  Mix  and  sift  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt,  and  add  these,  with  the  orange  juice 
and  the  orange  and  lemon  extracts  to  the  first  mixture.  Beat 
vigorously  for  two  minutes.  Fill  a  twelve-inch  square  pan 
which  has  been  prepared  with  waxed  paper,  with  the  mixture. 
Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cool,  cover 
with  the  icing  and  cut  into  twelve  pieces. 


CHAPTER  CL 
THE  BRIDESMAIDS'  DINNER 

RUTH'S  wedding  colors  were  to  be  pink  and  green,  and 
Dink  and  green  were,  therefore,  the  colors  which  decor- 
ated the  charming  dinner  table  laid  for  the  wedding  party  and 
close  relatives  the  night  before  the  wedding.  A  bud  vase  hold- 
ing a  halt-opened  pink  rose  bud  stood  before  every  two  places. 
A  large,  low  dish  in  the  center  of  the  table  held  pink  roses, 
while  at  either  end  was  another  low  arrangement  of  the  same 
flowers. 

Tiny  paper  slipper  nut  cups  at  each  place  held  the  pecans, 
and  at  the  places  laid  for  the  best  man  and  the  ushers,  silver 
pencils,  Fred's  gifts  to  the  groomsmen,  were  found. 

"They  are  cunning,  of  course,"  chattered  Bernadette,  Ruth's 
cousin  and  maid-of-honor,  "but  you  men  just  wait  till  you  see 
the  green  parasols  that  we  bridesmaids  are  to  carry !  Ruth  is 
giving  them  to  us,  you  know !" 

The  dinner  menu  was  as  follows : 

Watermelon  Balls 

Celery  Bouillon  Bread   Sticks 

Veal  Birds 

Creamed  New  Potatoes  Buttered  New  Beets 

Rolls  Butter  Balls 

Mint  Frappe 

Blackstone  Salad  French  Dressing 

Tnm  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Brick  Ice  Cream  White  Cake 

Coffee 

Salted  Pecans 

457 


458      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Blackstone  Salad   (Eighteen  portions) 

36  pieces  of  head  lettuce  J/^  t-paprika 

9  grapefruit  >4  t-salt 
9  T-Neufchatel  cheese  2  T-cream 

9  T-cottage  cheese  i  T-salad  dressing 

Arrange  two  pieces  of  lettuce  on  each  salad  plate.  Care- 
fully peel  the  grapefruit  and  remove  all  the  tough  fibres  and 
the  white  skin.  Cut  the  grapefruit  into  one-inch  pieces.  Ar- 
range the  pieces  in  a  circle  upon  the  lettuce  leaves.  In  the 
center  of  the  circle,  place  the  cheese  mixture.  Pour  the  salad 
dressing  over  the  lettuce,  cheese  and  grapefruit. 

Cheese  Mixture 

Mix  the  Neufchatel  and  cottage  cheese,  the  salt,  paprika, 
cream  and  salad  dressing.  Stir  until  very  creamy.  Spread 
on  a  piece  of  waxed  paper  to  the  thickness  of  one  inch.  Place 
in  the  refrigerator,  on  the  ice  if  possible.  When  cold  and  hard, 
cut  in  pieces  three-fourths  of  an  inch  square.  Place  a  cube  in 
the  center  of  the  grapefruit  circle  on  each  side  plate. 

French  Dressing 

8  T-lemon    juice     ^  t-paprlka 
2  t-salt  I  C-olive  oil 

-  Mix  and  beat  thoroughly  the  lemon  juice,  salt  and  paprika. 
Add  the  oil  very  slowly.  Beat  for  three  minutes.  Add  one 
tablespoon  to  each  portion  of  the  salad.    Serve  at  once. 


CHAPTER  CLI 
A  MORNING  WEDDING  IN  JUNE 

AFTER  the  solemn  and  beautiful  ceremony  had  taken 
place  in  the  rose-embowered  summer  house,  there  was 
the  usual  hush  for  a  moment,  and  then  Ruth  and  Fred  were 
engulfed  in  a  sudden  rush  of  chattering  friends,  eager  to  offer 
congratulations.  Bettina  and  Bob  were  swept  off  with  the  oth- 
ers to  the  house,  where  the  wedding  breakfast  was  waiting  to 
be  served. 

'The  morning  is  after  all  the  happiest  time  for  a  wedding," 
whispered  Ellen  to  Bettina,  as  they  found  their  places  at  the 
bride's  table.  "Everything  seems  so  fresh  and  new  and  green 
and  hopeful !    Isn't  the  table  lovely,  Bettina  ?" 

And  indeed  it  was.  Rose-decorated  again,  with  the  grace- 
ful flowers  in  baskets,  and  the  white  bride's  cake  in  the  center 
of  the  table,  Bettina  felt  that  it  made  the  proper  setting  for  the 
flushed  and  smiling  little  bride. 

"And  the  wedding  cake  is  to  be  passed  in  darling  little  bas- 
kets," continued  Ellen.  "Little  baskets  with  handles — and  the 
cake  in  tiny  packages  tied  with  white  ribbon !  Pink  and  green 
candy  all  around  them,  too !" 

The  wedding  breakfast  consisted  of: 

Watermelon  Balls  in  Halves  of  Cantaloupe 

Chicken    Croquettes  Creamed    Potatoes 

Mushroom  Sauce 

New  Peas  Butter  Sauce 

Pprker  House  Rolls  Loganberry  Jam 

Fruit  Salad  Wafers,  Bettina 

Brick  Ice   Cream  White   Cake 

Coffee 

Nuts  Candy 

459 


460      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Mushroom  Sauce  (Thirty  portions) 

I  C-chicken  fat       2  t-salt 
14   C-water  ^  t-paprika 

i^  C-flour  7  C-milk 

Mix  the  fat  and  flour  carefully,  add  the  water,  salt  and 
paprika.  Cook  one  minute,  stirring  constantly,  add  one-half  of 
the  milk  and  cook  until  the  mixture  gets  very  thick.  Beat  one 
minute,  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  cook  again,  still  stirring 
continuously.  When  the  sauce  is  very  thick  and  creamy,  add 
the  mushrooms.  Stir  over  a  hot  fire  for  one  minute.  This 
allows  the  mushrooms  to  get  hot.  Serve  one  tablespoonful  of 
the  mixture  around  each  croquette.  The  sauce  may  be  re- 
heated by  adding  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  and  placing  over  a 
hot  fire. 

Fruit  Salad    (Thirty  portions) 

30  slices  of  pineapple  120  pecan  meats 

120  white  cherries  30  T-salad  dressing 

30  red  maraschino  cherries       30  pieces  of  head  lettuce 
2  t-salt 

Arrange  the  pieces  of  lettuce  on  the  salad  plates.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  arrange  on  each  portion  a  slice  of  pineapple,  four 
white  cherries,  four  pecan  nuts  and  one  maraschino  cherry. 
Place  one  tablespoon  of  salad  dressing  on  each  slice  of  pine- 
apple, then  arrange  the  fruits  and  nuts  in  any  desired  design. 
Serve  immediately. 

Wafers  Bettina    (Thirty  portions) 

30  double  wafers  3  T-chopped  nut  meats 

J4  lb.    cream   cheese    (white)       3  T-butter 
y^  t-salt 

Mix  the  cheese,  nuts,  butter  and  salt  thoroughly.  Spread 
evenly  over  the  double  wafers.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
a  delicate  brown  on  the  top. 


CHAPTER  CLII 
THE  FIRST  YEAR  ENDS 

ii  \  J>JD  a  whole  year  has  gone  since  then,"  said  Bob,  as  his 

l\  eyes  met  Bettina's  across  the  Httle  table  set  for  two. 

"That's  the  queer  part  of  it,"  Bettina  replied.  "That  year 
seems  unbelievably  short  in  some  ways  and  unbelievably  long 
in  others,  and  stranger  yet,  I  don't  feel  that  it  is  really  gone. 
I  feel  as  if  we  had  it,  captured,  held  forever,  with  all  of  its 
fun  and  all  of  its  little  sad  times.  We  own  it,  even  more  than 
we  own  a  collection  of  snapshots  in  a  camera  book — because 
that  year  is  a  part  of  us  now." 

"And  the  little  hard  places  only  make  the  bright  spots  all 
the  brighter  by  contrast.  Do  you  know,  Bettina,  that  I've 
found  you  wiser  than  I  ever  imagined  a  young  wife  could 
be?" 

"Bob," — and  Bettina  laughed  and  blushed  at  the  same  time. 

"Don't  interrupt.  This  is  our  anniversary  and  Tm  making 
a  speech.  You  are  wise  because  from  the  first  you've  realized 
that  we  get  out  of  life  just  what  we  put  into  it.  You've  faced 
things.  You've  realized  that  marriage  isn't  a  hit-or-miss  propo- 
sition.    It's  a  business " 

"A  glorified  business,  Bobby.  Dealing  in  materials  that  can't 
all  be  felt  and  seen  and  tasted,  but  that  are,  nevertheless,  just 
as  real  as  others.  More  truly  real,  I  sometimes  think.  I 
know  that  the  more  love  we  give  the  more  we  receive,  but  we 
can't  forget  that  we  were  given  intelligence,  too.  So  we  mustn't 
turn  the  rose-colored  lights  of  romance  too  beautifully  low 

461 


462      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

to  let  us  see  the  wheels  go  round.  And  after  all,  romance  is 
really  in  everything  that  we  do  lovingly,  and  intelligently.  I 
find  it  in  planning  and  cooking  the  best  and  most  economical 
meals  that  I  can,  and  in  getting  the  mending  done  on  time,  and 
in  keeping  the  house  clean  and  beautiful.  And — in  having  you 
appreciate  things." 

"If  you  knew  how  I  do  appreciate  them !"  said  Bob.  "Let's 
make  our  second  year  even  happier  than  the  first.  If  that  is 
possible !" 

For  that  anniversary  dinner  Bettina  served: 

Broiled  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Hot  Biscuits  Butter 

Currant  Jelly 

Tomato  Salad 

Charlotte  Russe 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Currant  Jelly    (Five   glasses) 

2  qts.  of  currants     i   C-water 
Sugar 

Pick  over  the  currants,  leaving  the  berries  on  the  stems. 
Wash  and  drain.  Place  in  an  enamel  preserving  kettle  and 
add  one  cup  of  water.  Cook  slowly  until  the  currants  are 
white.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Boil  the  juice  five  minutes 
in  a  shallow  pan.  It  is  better  to  boil  small  quantities  at  a  time, 
as  this  makes  the  jelly  much  clearer.  When  the  juice  has  all 
been  boiled,  measure,  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  heated 
sugar.  Boil  three  minutes,  or  until  it  jells  when  tried  on  a 
cold  saucer.  Pour  into  sterilized  glasses.  Allow  to  stand  in 
the  sun  twenty-four  hours.  Cover  with  boiling  paraffin  and 
put  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  This  recipe  makes  about  five 
glasses  or  two  and  a  half  pints. 

Tomato  Salad  (Two  portions) 

4  slices  tomato,  5^  inch  thick  ^  t-celery  salt 

3  T-chopped  green  pepper  2  T-olive  oil 

y2  t-salt  2  T-lemon  juice 

y^  t-paprika  2  pieces  lettuce 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  463 

Mix  the  salt,  paprika,  celery  salt,  olive  oil  and  lemon  juice. 
Beat  one  minute.  Add  the  tomatoes  and  green  pepper.  Place 
in  the  ice  box  for  half  an  hour.  Arrange  the  lettuce  leaves 
on  salad  plates.  Place  two  slices  of  tomato  on  each  portion. 
Pour  the  oil  mixture  over  the  tomatoes. 

Charlotte  Russe   (Two  portions) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin       i  C-whipped  cream 

2  T-cold  water  ^  t-vanilla 

54  C-hot  milk  4  thin  pieces  sponge  cake 
K  C-sugar 

Place  the  sponge  cakes  around  the  edges  of  a  moistened 
mould.  Soak  the  gelatin  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  the 
hot  milk.  Stir  until  it  dissolves.  Add  the  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Allow  the  gelatin  mixture  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to  thicken, 
fold  in  the  cream.  Beat  until  i^he  mixture  holds  its  shape. 
Pour  into  the  mould.  Allow  to  remain  two  hours  in  a  cold 
place. 


INDEX 

Bread,  Rolls,  etc. 

PAGE 

Baking  powder  biscuit 51,  219,  442 

Boston  brown  bread 61 

Brown  bread 201 

Bran  bread,  steamed 364 

Cheese  wafers   439 

Cinnamon   rolls 164 

Cinnamon  toast 369 

Corn  bread 309 

Corn  gems 328 

Cream  toast 390 

Croutons    23,  263 

Croutons,  shamrock   396 

Date  bread  233 

Date  buns 274 

Date  muffins 83 

Date  nut  bread 221 

Egg  rolls    361 

Emergency  biscuit 123 

French  toast I45 

Fruit  gems 180 

Graham  gems 271 

Gluten  bread   367 

Light  rolls    75 

Muffins    326 

Muffins,  Twin  Mountain 64 

Nut  bread 71 

Nut  bread  for  sandwiches 371 

Peanut  butter  and  fruit  rolls 438 


468  Index 

PAGE 

Peanut  bread  288 

PinWheel  biscuits    45 

Pop-overs   377 

Sour  cream  biscuits   417 

Spanish  buns   78 

Sweet   milk   griddle   cakes 145 

Time  guide  for  quick  breads 113 

Toast 48 

Toasted  sticks   425 

Wafers,  Bettina 460 

Waffles    326 

Cakes  and  Cookies. 

Apple  sauce  cake 83 

Bettina's   cake 456 

Bettina's   cakes    375 

Bettina's   sponge   cake 400 

Bettina's  wafers   460 

Brides'  cake 119 

Burnt  sugar  cake 323 

Charlotte  Russe 463 

Chocolate  cream  filling 89 

Chocolate  sponge 221 

Chocolate  nougat 341 

Chocolate,  little  cakes 30 

Chocolate,  moist   38 

Date  loaf  cake 347 

Date  rocks   428 

Devil's    food 178,  231 

Doughnuts    102 

Doughnuts,  potato 126 

Drop  cookies   256 

Fancy  cakes  433 

Fudge  cakes,  hot y6 

Ginger  drop  cakes 286 

Gingerbread,  soft   .-, 388 

Graham  cracker  cake. ........    39c 


Index  469 

PAGE 

Gold  hearts   225 

Hickory  nut  cake 343 

Jumbles 253 

Lightning  tea  cakes 189 

Loaf,  Bettina's  nut  special 35 

Marble  cake 223 

Mocha  419 

Molasses  puffs 20!- 

Marshmallow 92 

Nut  cookies   260 

One  ^gg  cake 58 

Orange  cake 201 

Peanut  cookies 283 

Quick  cake 132 

Rocks    211 

Scones 236 

Small  cakes   393 

Sour  cream 102 

Sponge    279 

Sponge,  hot  water 168 

Spiced   137 

Washington  pie 321 

White  cakes 23 

White  cake 153 

Cereals. 

Method  of  cooking 105 

Oatmeal    6y 

Oatmeal  with  dates 326 

Rice,  boiled    423 

Wheat  cereal 104 

Desserts. 

Apples,  Bettina  = 208 

Apples,  baked  112,  277,  375,  385 

Apples,  glazed  123 


470  Index 

PAGE 

Apple  sauce  306 

Apricot  sauce , 271 

Cup  custard   217 

Custards,  steamed 409 

Grapefruit  cocktail    262,  396 

Orange  dessert    398 

Pineapple,  sliced 27 

Peach  cup 358 

Sponge  cake  and  whipped  cream 412 

Strawberries  au  naturel 23 

Drinks. 

Hot  chocolate   13 

Coffee   . 64 

Eggs. 

Baked    35^ 

Devilled     38 

Escalloped  with  cheese 312 

Goldenrod,  a  la 160 

Omelet    122 

Poached    47 

Scrambled    210,  328 

Souffle  125 

Fish. 

Codfish  balls   125 

Fish  a  la  Bettina 128 

Halibut  steak 26 

Halibut,  sauted    265 

Lobster,   creamed    282 

Oysters,  creamed 279 

Oyster  cocktail    230 

Oysters,  creamed  in  ramekins 364 

Oysters,  escalloped  314 

Oysters,   fried    303 


IndeoD  471 

PAGE 

Oyster  patties 252 

Salmon,  escalloped 271,  361 

Salmon,  loaf   274,  447 

Salmon  timbales    23 

Tuna,  creamed  on  toast  strips 12 

Tuna  loaf  195 

Ice  Creams  and  Ices. 

Apricots,  frozen 172 

Chocolate  sauce  for  ice  cream 92 

Lemon  sherbet 7^ 

Peaches  for  ice  cream I53 

Pecan  ice  cream 279 

Vanilla  ice  cream 153 

Icing. 

Bettina's  icing  394 

Confectioners',  Bettina's    344 

Confectioners'  79»  89 

Chocolate    5^ 

"C"  sugar  icing 138,  I53 

Meringue    5^ 

White  mountain  cream 24,  71 

Jellies  and  Preserves. 

Cherries,  canned   109 

Currant   jelly    109,  462 

Cranberry   3^3 

Fruit  jelly 268 

Fruit  juice   3^ 

Grapefruit  marmalade   346 

Jelly  making  suggestions no 

Apple  and  mint  jelly 162 

Orange  marmalade   369 

Peach  butter    99 


472  Indeoo 

PAGE 

Strawberry  preserves  13 

Tomato  jelly loi 

Meats. 

Beef  balls 170 

Beef,  creamed   68 

Beef,  corned,  au  gratin 367 

Beef,  flank,  rolled 241 

Beef,  jellied  40 

Beef  loaf    i55»  192 

Beef  pie   223 

Beef  pot  roast 422 

Beef  roast    I77 

Boubons    18 

Bacon,  broiled  146 

Bacon,  liver  and 180 

Bacon,  pigs  in  blankets 355 

Chicken  croquettes    186,  319 

Chicken  en  casserole 40Q 

Chicken,  fried   118 

Chicken  a  la  king 343>  393 

Chicken  loaf    33^ 

Chicken  and  mushroom  patties 268 

Ham    115 

Ham,  baked 309»  374 

Ham,  broiled   236 

Ham  cooked  in  milk 326 

Ham   en   casserole 43^ 

Hash,  browned    82 

Lamb  chops,  Creole 135 

Lamb  chops,  breaded 249 

Lamb   chops,  broiled 85,  285,  41 1 

Lamb,  roast  leg  of 34^  4^4 

Lamb  stew  3^^ 

Liver  and  bacon 180 

Meat  balls 383 


Indeop  473 

PAGE 

Mutton  in  ramekins 288 

Pork  croquettes 425 

Pork  chops 95,  306,  398 

Pork  chops  with  sweet  potatoes 300 

Pork   tenderloins    276,  436 

Steak,  Bettina   ,  404 

Steak,  devilled  50 

Steak,  flank,  braized 290 

Steak,   Hamburger    140 

Steak,  pan-broiled   15,  131 

Steak,  round,  en  casserole 408 

Steak,    round,   with   vegetables 238 

Steak,  Swiss 340 

Tongue,  boiled 98 

Turkey,  roast 293 

Veal  birds 88 

Veal  chops   444 

Veal,  creamed   54 

Veal  cutlets   174 

Veal  loaf    60 

Veal,  breaded 350 

Veal   steak,   baked 335 


Nuts  and  Candies. 

Date  kisses 369 

Fudge,  chocolate  338 

Fudge,  maple 260 

Fudge,  peanut   181 

Fudge,  white 338 

Penoche     156 

Peanut  fondant  338 

Popcorn   balls    259 

Salted  almonds    226 

Salted  peanuts 234 

Sour  cream  candy 301 


474  Index 

PAGE 

Pastry. 

Apple  dumpling  288,  246 

Apricot  cobbler  192 

Berry  pie   loi 

Blueberry  tarts    129 

Boston  cream  pie 386 

Cheese  timbales  230 

Cherry   cobbler    454 

Chocolate  pie 183 

Cranberry  pie    307 

Cream  puffs  213 

Crust   52 

Dutch  apple  cake 115 

Lemon  pie   5^ 

Peach  cobbler 164 

Pumpkin   253 

Rules  for  pastry 161 

Strawberry  short  cake 16 

Pickles,  Relishes,  etc. 

Beets,  pickled 5^ 

Beets,  spiced    207 

Cabbage  relish 265 

Chili  sauce   217 

Jelly   pickle    346 

Radishes    41 

Relish  for  fried  oysters 303 

Puddings. 

Apricot  souffle  225 

Brown  Betty 150,  291 

Chocolate  cream  pudding 187 

Chocolate  custard   380 

Cocoanut 430 


Indea?  475 

PAGE 

Cocoanut  blanc  mange 95 

Cornstarch  fruit   353 

Cottage  pudding 20,  238 

Cottage  pudding,  Bettina's 277 

Cream,  whipped 225 

Date  pudding   356,  426 

Date  pudding,  steamed 249 

Fig  pudding,   steamed 351 

Lemon  rice 274 

Marble     447 

Marshmallow  cream  199 

Marshmallow  pudding   383 

Plum  pudding,  Bettina's 312 

Plum  pudding   294 

Pineapple  charlotte 296 

Prunes     241 

Prune  blanc  mange 236 

Prune  souffle   141 

Prune  whip   243,  314 

"Quick   pudding" 272 

Rhubarb  pudding   86 

Rice  pudding   156 

Rice  parfait   364 

Tapioca,  apple    219,  304 

Tapioca  and  date 335 

Tapioca,   orange 450 

Tapioca,  strawberry   452 

Salads. 

Apple,  celery  and  green  pepper 99 

Asparagus    „ 452 

Banana    442 

Beet  189 

Bean    428 

Bettina    167,  343,  398 

Blackstone 458 

Cabbage    290 


476  Index 

PAGE 

Clown    433 

Cherry 187 

Cucumber  and   radish 51 

Egg"  and   lettuce 414 

Fruit     456,  460 

Grapefruit    380 

Honolulu     172 

Lettuce 246,  282,  374,  408 

Lobster  and  salmon 38 

Mexican    201 

Orange  and  cherry 321 

Pear    279,  438 

Perfection  salad 300 

Potato   207 

Salmon 57,  213 

String  bean    230 

Sunbonnet  Baby    70 

Surprise    252 

Tomato 462 

Tomato,  cucumber  pimento 2y 

Tomato  cup   91 

Tomato,   stuffed    129 

Tuna    233 

Washington    371 

Vegetable    152,  271,  319,  436,  454 

Salad  Dressing  and  Sauces. 

Bread  dressing    241 

Bechamel   sauce    243,  445 

Butter  sauce 243 

Boiled   salad   dressing 102 

Bettina  dressing    408 

Bettina's  French  dressing 454 

Cranberry  sauce   310 

Custard  sauce    96 

Egg  sauce 23 

French  dressing 2y 


Index  477 

PAGE 

PYench  dressing  with  green  peppers 282 

Giblet  gravy 294 

Horseradish  sauce 170 

Lemon  sauce   116 

Mushroom  sauce 460 

Maitre  d'Hotel 95 

Roquefort  cheese  dressing 374 

Russian   dressing    246,  314 

Salad  dressing   233 

Thousand  Island  salad  dressing 89,  132 

Tomato    sauce    19,  155 

Vanilla  sauce  239 

White  sauces   79 

Sandwiches. 

Bettina's    , 456 

Ham    38 

Ham,  chopped  433 

Hallowe'en   253 

Nut-bread   for  sandwiches 371 

Peanut  butter 41 

Washington's  birthday  372 

Soups. 

Bettina's  soup   442 

Cream   of   asparagus 263 

Creaw  of  celery 396 

Cream  of  pea 425 

Vegetables. 

Asparagus  on  toast 303 

Cabbage,  creamed  430 

Cabbage,  escalloped  141,  216 

Cauliflower,  creamed    83 

Cauliflower,  escalloped 175 


478  Index 

PAGE 

Carrots,  creamed   131,  228,  385,  441 

Celery  au  gratin 210 

Celery  and  eggs 170 

Corn,  creamed 164 

Corn,  oysters 146 

Corn  on  the  cob 99 

Egg  plant   285 

Egg   plant,   escalloped 355 

Macaroni,  tomatoes,  green  peppers 353 

Macaroni  and  cheese 219 

Onions,  creamed 294,  404 

Onions,  escalloped   115,  419 

Onions,  stuffed 416,  450 

Peas,    creamed,   new 85 

Peppers,  stuffed  with  corn 186 

Peppers,  stuffed  with  cauliflower 198 

Peppers,  stuffed  with  rice 75 

Potatoes,  baked    141,  385 

Potatoes,  creamed 123,  148,  256 

Potatoes,  escalloped 155,  285 

Potatoes  in  cream 16 

Potatoes,  cubes   243 

Potatoes,  lyonnaise  428 

Potatoes,  Bettina's    221 

Potatoes,  mashed   54,  170 

Potatoes,  Anna   69 

Potato  balls   198 

Potato  cakes 161 

Potato  croquettes    174 

Potatoes,  hashed  brown 150 

Potatoes,  brown    177 

Potato   rosettes    265 

Potatoes,  sauted 163 

Potatoes,  escalloped  with  bacon 358 

Potato  and  green  corn  croquettes 135 

Rice  288 

Rice  croquettes    41 1 


Index  479 

PAGE 

Rice  cakes   129 

String  beans 27 

Squash,  baked   177 

Sweet  potatoes,  mashed 192,  340 

Sweet  potatoes,   candied 355 

Sweet  potatoes,  fireless 296 

Sweet  potatoes,  glazed 266 

Tomatoes   and   cheese 367 

Tomatoes,  cheese,  and  rice 335 

Tomatoes,  devilled 256 

Tomatoes,  stuffed   54 

Tomatoes,  with  rice 183 

Turnips 246 

Turnips,  creamed   180 

Bettina's  Suggestions. 

Bettina's  suggestions    7^ 

Emergency  shelf  13 

Menus  for  cerealess  breakfasts 144,  145 

Suggestions  for  serving  bride's  cake 119 

Pastry  rules  i6i 

Jelly  making   no 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  784  3 


I 


aiB^. 


ij 


»*s 


- 


