AMERICAN  FUNGI 


TOADSTOOLS,  MUSHROOMS,  FUNGI, 
EDIBLE  AND  POISONOUS 


AMERICAN  FUNGI 


HOW  TO  SELECT  AND  COOK  THE  EDIBLE;  HOW  TO 
DISTINGUISH  AND  AVOID  THE  POISONOUS 


WITH    FULL   BOTANIC   DESCRIP1  IONS 


BY  CHARLES  McILVAINE 

PRESIDENT   PHILADELPHIA    MYCOLOGICAL  CENTER,   HONORARY   MEMBER   SALEM   COUNTY  AND 
GLOUCESTER   COUNTY,  N.  J.,  MCOICAL  SOCIETIES 

AND 

ROBERT  K.  MACADAM 


coition 

Revised  Throughout  by  CHARLES  FREDERIC  MILLSPAUGH,  Curator 

of  Botany,  Field  Museum  of  Natural  History,  Chicago,  with 

Supplementary  Chapter  and  Many 

New  Illustrations 


INDIANAPOLIS 

THE  BOBBS-MERRILL  COMPANY 
PUBLISHERS 


Copyright  1900 
THE  BOWEN-MERRILL  COMPANY 

Copyright  1912 
THE  BOBBS-MERRILL  COMPANY 


PRESS   or 

BRAUNWORTH    &    CO. 

BOOKBINDERS    AND     PRINTERS 

BROOKLYN,    N.    Y. 


CONTENTS 


General   Index v 

Preface    vii 

Introduction   ix 

Instructions  to  Students xxiii 

Text    1 

Toadstool  Poisoning  and  Its  Treatment 621 

Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 635 

Raising  Mushrooms  at  Home 650 

Abbreviations  of  Names  of  Authors  of  Species 656 

Names  of  the  Principal  Reporters  of  American  Species 658 

Glossary    661 

Preface  to  Second  Edition 703 

Preface  to  Third  Edition 705 

Supplementary  Text 707 

Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 739 


242993 


GENERAL  INDEX 


PAGE. 

Abbreviations  of  the  Names  of  Au- 
thors, 656 
Agaricaceae.     Family,                    xvii,  1 
Spore  color  chart,  iv 
Tabular      view      of 

genera,  iv 

Agarics.     Progressive  growth  of,  iii 

Graphic  section  of,  vii 

Amanitine,  5 

Analysis,  Agaricus  campester, 

Coprinus  atramentarius,  374 

Coprinus  comatus,  371 

Cortinarius  collinitus,  314 

Lycoperdon  bovista,  590 

Marasmius  oreades,  225 

Morchella  esculenta,  543 

Pleurotus  ostreatus,  137 

Anthony,  Mrs.  Emilia  C.,  xxi 

Arnold,  Prof.  J.  P.,  xxi 

Ascomycetes.     Sub-Class,         xviii,  534 

Auriculariese.     Sub-Family,  526 

Author's  and  Publisher's  Note,  xxii 

Bake,  A  Camp,  649 

Baked  Toadstools  of  any  gilled  kind,  648 

Basidiomycetes.     Sub-Class,          1,  568 

Benson,  Berry,  xxi 

Boleti,  640 

To  bake,  641 

To  broil,  640 

To  dry,  641 

To  fry,  641 

To  stew,  640 

To  make  B.  edulis  soup,  641 

Boston  School  of  Natural  History,  xxi 

Briscoe,  Frank  D.,  xxi 

Britton,  Prof.  N.  L.,  x,  xx 

Brown,  Hon.  Addison,  xx 

Cantharellus  cibarius,  641 

To  fry,  641 

To  preserve  for  winter  use,  642 

To  roast,  641 

To  stew,  641 


Carter,  Prof.  W.  S., 
Clavaria.     To  cook, 

To  pickle, 

Clavariaceae.   Family, 
Clitocybe  multiceps, 

To  bake, 

With  cheese, 


xiii,  xxi,  621 
642 
642 

xviii,  1,  511 
642 
642 
642 


PAGE. 

Collins,  Thomas  J.,  xxi 

Cooking,  Recipes  for,  635 
Coprinus.     To  cook  (Mrs.  S.  T.  Ro- 

rer),  642 

Croquettes.     Toadstool,  643 

Curtis,  Rev.  M.  A.,  xiv 

Dacryomycetes.     Sub-Family,  527 

Daniels,  Dr.  Edwin  A.,  xx 

Dewey,  Melvil,  xxi 

Discomycetes.     Cohort,  534 

Easton,  Prof.  Morton  W.,  xx 

Ewing,  Mrs.  Emma  P.,  xx 

Farlow,  Prof.  William  G.,  xxi 

Fistulina  Hepatica.     To  cook,  643 

Fistulina  hepatica  salad,  643 

Fungi.     Class,  1 
Fungus.     To  broil  any  capped,          643 

Gastromycetes.     Sub-Class,        xvi,  568 

Gill  shapes  i 

Glossary,  661 


Harpel,  Luther  G., 
Harshberger,  Dr.  J.  W., 
Helvellaceae.     Family, 
Hydnacese.   Family, 
Hydnei.     To  cook, 


xxi 

XX 

534 

xviii,  1,  492 
644 


Hymenogastraceae.     Family,  569 

Hymenomycetes.  Cohort,      xvi,  xvii,  1 
Hypholomas,  644 

To  bake,  645 

To  stew,  644 


Index  to  Species, 
Instructions  to  Students, 
Introduction, 

Lactarii.     To  cook, 
Langlois,  Rev.  A.  B., 
Leucosporae.     Chart  of  genera, 

Series, 
Lloyd,  C.  G., 
Lycoperdacese.     Family, 
Lycoperdons  (Puff-balls), 

To  fry, 

To  stew, 

To  make  salad  of, 


739 

xxiii 

ix 

645 

565 

v 

2 

xxi 

569,  577 
647 
647 
647 
647 


General  Index 


PAGE. 

Marasmius  oreades.   To  cook,  645 

Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society, 

xxi 

Melanosporae.     Series,  368 

Mendel,  Lafayette  B.,  xiii 

Metrical  Scale  and  Table  of  Meas- 
ures, xxv 
Miller,  Henry  Irving,  xxi 
Morchella  (the  Morel).   To  cook,     645 
Morelles  a  1'Italienne,                      645 
Morgan,  Prof.  A.  P.,                      xv,  589 
Morgan,  Laura  V.,  x 
Mushrooms.     To  cook,                          636 
Baked,  on  toast,                                637 
Catchup  (English  method),           640 
Catchup  (Mcllvaine),                      639 
Crusts  of,                                              637 
Fricassee  of,                                      638 
Pickles  (English  method),             639 
Pickles  (Mcllvaine),                        638 
Sauce,  canned   (Mrs.  E.  P.  Ew- 

ing),  640 

Sauce,  fresh  (Mrs.  E.  P.  Ewing),     640 
Stewed,  on  toast,  638 

To  dry  (English  method),  637 

To  fry,  638 

Names  of  the  principal  American 
Reporters  of  Species,  658 

Pates.   Toadstool,  646 

Peck,  Prof.  Charles  H.,  x,  xi 

Pezizae.     Family,  552 

Phalloideae.     Family,  569,  570 

Pleurotus  ostreatus.    To  cook,          646 

In  chafing  dish,  646 

To  fry,  646 

To  stew,  646 

With  cheese,  646 

Polyporaceae.   Family,          xviii,  1,  396 

Porphyrosporae  (Pratelli).  Series,     330 


Preface, 

Preparing  for  the  table, 

Pyrenomycetes.     Family, 


PAGE. 
vii 
635 
561 


Recipes  for  cooking  and  preparing 

for  the  table,  635 

Rhodosporae  (Hyporhodii).  Series,  239 
Ring  shapes  and  positions,  ii 

Rorer,  Mrs.  Sarah  Tyson,  xx 

Schadle,  Dr.  J.  E.,  xxi,  5 
Sclerodermaceas.  Family,  569,  615 
Spore  color  chart,  Agarics,  iv 
Spore-prints,  To  make  and  pre- 
serve, xxiv 
Starnes,  Val  W.,  xxi 
Sterling,  E.  B.,  xxi 

Thelephoraceae.    Family,  1,  506 

Toadstool  poisoning  and  its  treat- 
ment, 621 
Toadstools  of  any  gilled  kind,  baked  648 
Toadstools  deviled,  643 
Toadstools  fried,  644 
Toadstool  salads,  648 
Toadstool  soups,  648 
Toadstools.  To  stew  tougher  kinds 

of,  647 

Toadstools  with  cheese,  648 

Toast.     Hunter's,  644 

To  test  edibility  of  species,  xxvii 

Tremellaceae.     Family,  1,  526 

Tricholoma.     To  cook,  647 

Tricholoma  personatum.   To  stew,    647 
Truffles,  (Tuberaceae),  565 

Tuberaceae.   Family,  565 

Tuckahoe,  civ,  567 

Volva  shapes,  ii 

Weist,  Dr.  James  R.,  xxi 


VI 


PREFACE 

A  SCORE  of  years  ago  (1880-1885)  I  was  living  in  the  mountains  of 
West  Virginia.  While  riding  on  horseback  through  the  dense  forests  of 
that  great  unfenced  state,  I  saw  on  every  side  luxuriant  growths  of  fungi, 
so  inviting  in  color,  cleanliness  and  flesh  that  it  occurred  to  me  they 
ought  to  be  eaten.  I  remembered  having  read  a  short  time  before  this 
inspiration  seized  me  a  very  interesting  article  in  the  Popular  Science 
Monthly  for  May,  1877,  written  by  Mr.  Julius  A.  Palmer,  Jr.,  entitled 
"Toadstool  Eating."  Hunting  it  up  I  studied  it  carefully,  and  soon 
found  myself  interested  in  a  delightful  study  which  was  not  without  im- 
mediate reward.  Up  to  this  time  I  had  been  living,  literally,  on  the 
fat  of  the  land — bacon;  but  my  studies  enabled  me  to  supplement  this, 
the  staple  dish  of  the  state,  with  a  vegetable  luxury  that  centuries  ago 
graced  the  dinners  of  the  Caesars.  So  absorbing  did  the  study  become 
from  gastronomic,  culinary  and  scientific  points  of  view,  that  I  have  con- 
tinued it  ever  since,  with  thorough  intellectual  enjoyment  and  much 
gratification  of  appetite  as  my  reward.  I  hope  to  interest  students  in 
the  study  as  I  am  myself  interested. 

For  twenty  years  my  little  friends — the  toadstools — have  been  my 
constant  companions.  They  have  interested  me,  delighted  me,  fed  me, 
and  I  have  found  much  pleasure  in  making  the  public  acquainted  with 
their  habits,  structure,  lusciousness  and  food  value. 

My  researches  have  been  confined  to  the  species  large  enough  to  ap- 
pease the  appetite  of  a  hungry  naturalist  if  found  in  reasonable  quantity ; 
and  my  work  has  been  devoted  to  segregating  the  edible  and  innocuous 
from  the  tough,  undesirable  and  poisonous  kinds.  To  accomplish  this, 
because  of  the  persistent  inaccuracy  of  the  books  upon  the  subject,  it 
was  necessary  to  personally  test  the  edible  qualities  of  hundreds  of 
species  about  which  mycologists  have  either  written  nothing  or  have 
followed  one  another  in  giving  erroneous  information.  While  often 
wishing  I  had  not  undertaken  the  work  because  of  the  unpleasant  results 


Preface 

from  personally  testing  fungi  which  proved  to  be  poisonous,  my  reward 
has  been  generous  in  the  discovery  of  many  delicacies  among  the  more 
than  seven  hundred  edible  varieties  I  have  found. 

For  ten  years  I  have  planned  to  publish  in  book  form  what  I  know 
about  toadstools ;  each  effort  to  compile  my  information  has  shown  me 
how  much  more  I  ought  to  know  before  going  into  print.  Even  now 
my  work  is  still  unfinished. 

I  am  urged  by  my  many  toadstool  friends  (as  I  lovingly  call  those 
who,  from  all  over  the  land,  send  me  specimens  for  identification,  and 
grow  interested  with  me  in  the  work),  to  publish  what  I  already  know 
upon  the  subject,  that  they,  and  others,  may  have  a  helpful  book  to 
guide  them  to  a  goodly  portion  of  the  edible  species,  and  away  from 
those  that  are  inedible  or  poisonous. 

In  this  book  I  comply  with  these  requests.  I  have  selected  over  seven 
hundred  of  the  most  plentiful  and  best  varieties  for  the  table,  from  my 
toadstool  bill  of  fare;  and  I  describe  and  caution  against  several  species, 
some  of  which  are  deadly  in  their  effects,  if  eaten;  others  of  which  in- 
duce ill-effects  more  or  less  serious.  One  thousand  species  and  varieties 
are  named  and  described. 

Birds,  flowers,  insects,  stones  delight  the  observant.  Why  not  toad- 
stools? A  tramp  after  them  is  absorbing,  study  of  them  interesting, 
and  eating  of  them  health-giving  and  supremely  satisfying. 

CHARLES  MC!LVAINE. 


VI 11 


INTRODUCTION 


AMERICA  is  without  a  text-book  of  the  American  species  of  Fungi, 
among  which  the  edible  and  poisonous  varieties  are  found.  Many 
excellent  but  expensive  foreign  volumes  describe  species  common  to 
both  continents,  and  several  special  but  widely  scattered  monographs 
have  been  published  here.  The  need  of  the  mycologist,  mycophagist 
and  amateur  toadstool  student  is  a  book  giving  the  genus,  names  and 
descriptions  of  the  prominent  American  toadstools  whose  edibility  has 
been  tested,  or  whose  poisonous  qualities  have  been  discovered.  The 
absence  of  such  a  book,  and  the  universal  and  rapidly-growing  interest 
all  over  the  United  States  in  edible  fungi,  have  led  to  the  publication  of 
the  present  work,  which  includes  every  species  known  to  be  esculent  in 
North  America.  As  a  precautionary  measure,  full  explications  of  all 
those  known  or  suspected  to  be  poisonous  are  included. 

Many  species  found  in  this  country  only  have  been  described  and 
named  by  various  authors,  from  the  time  of  Schweinitz  (1822)  to  the 
present  day.  These  have  been  published  in  the  botanical  magazines 
and  in  the  papers  of  scientific  societies  and  colleges.  The  greater  num- 
ber have  as  author  Professor  Charles  H.  Peck,  New  York  State  Botanist, 
who  has  contributed  an  annual  report  each  year  from  1868.  These 
appear  in  the  reports  of  the  State  Museum  of  New  York,  and  coming 
from  the  pen  of  our  ablest  mycologist  are  of  great  value  to  everyone 
interested  in  the  study.  The  classifications  and  (in  many  instances) 
modified  descriptions  by  such  an  eminent  authority  upon  fungoid  growth 
should  therefore  be  the  guides  to  American  forms,  that  the  confusion 
created  by  numerous  descriptions  of  the  same  fungus  by  different  ob- 
servers may  be  avoided. 

Professor  N.  L.  Britton,  editor  of  the  Torrey  Botanical  Club,  has 
courteously  given  permission  to  use  the  descriptions  of  new  species 
given  in  its  instructive  Bulletins. 

Professor  A.  P.  Morgan  and  Laura  V.  Morgan,  with  equal  courtesy, 

ix 


Introduction 

grant  the  use  of  text  and  illustrations  contained  in  the  most  complete 
monograph  published  upon  the  Lycoperdaceae  (puff-balls,  etc.)  of 
America. 

While  the  scientific  classifications  and  descriptions  have  been  strictly 
followed,  the  language  has  been  simplified — with  no  sacrifice  of  scientific 
accuracy — that  this  volume  may  be  fully  adapted  to  popular  use. 

Professor  Peck  has  given  his  valuable  assistance  in  the  identification 
of  many  species,  all  that  were  difficult  or  obscure  having  been  submitted 
to  him,  and  the  writer  is  deeply  indebted  to  him  for  many  and  long- 
continued  courtesies,  aiding  in  study  and  in  the  preparation  of  this  work. 

Several  new  species  have  been  found  by  the  writer,  the  greater  part 
of  excellent  food  value.  He  preferred  that  these  should  be  named,  de- 
scribed and  placed  in  their  proper  genus  and  section  by  Professor  Peck, 
believing  it  to  be  best  for  the  discoverers  of  new  species  to  defer  to  one 
whose  vast  experience  enables  him  to  name  and  classify  in  accordance 
with  the  demands  of  American  species. 

Where  a  species  is  vouched  for  as  edible,  it  has  been  personally  tested 
by  the  author  and  his  willing  undertasters  up  to  eating  full  meals  of  it, 
or  at  least  beyond  all  doubt  as  to  its  safety.  Where  others  have  eaten 
species  which  he  has  not  had  the  opportunity  to  test,  their  names  and 
opinions  are  given.  When  species  heretofore  under  the  ban  of  suspicion 
are  in  this  volume,  for  the  first  time,  announced  to  be  edible  (there  are 
many  of  them),  personal  tests  have  not  been  considered  sufficient,  as 
idiosyncrasy  might  have  affected  the  results.  Others,  at  the  writer's  re- 
quest, have  eaten  of  the  species  until  their  innocence  was  fully  established. 
In  some  cases,  where  the  reputation  of  the  fungi  eaten  was  especially  bad, 
scientists  of  note  have  made  elaborate  and  exhaustive  physiological  tests 
of  their  substances,  and  in  every  instance*  confirmed  the  human  testing. 

While  species  which  contain  deadly  poisons  are  few,  their  individuals 
are  produced  in  great  number.  Nicety  in  distinguishing  their  botanic 
variance  from  edible  species  closely  resembling  them  is  necessary.  No 
charm  will  detect  the  poison.  Eating  toadstools  before  their  certain 
identification  as  belonging  to  edible  species,  is  neither  bravery  nor 
common  sense.  The  amateur  should  go  slow. 

The  question  often  asked  is :  By  what  rule  do  you  distinguish  between 
edible  and  poisonous  mushrooms?  The  answer  usually  surprises  the 
questioner — there  is  no  general  rule.  All  such  rules  which  have  been 
given  are  false  and  unreliable.  The  quality  of  each  was  learned,  one  at 

x 


Introduction 

a  time.  Sweet  and  sour  apples  alike  grow  on  large  and  small  trees,  may 
be  red  or  green,  large  or  small,  oblong  or  globular,  and  no  visible  ap- 
pearance gives  the  least  clue  to  the  quality. 

In  a  few  genera  certain  rules  may  be  applied,  as  in  Clavaria — all  not 
bitter  or  tough  are  edible.  But  such  generalizations  are  each  limited  to 
its  own  genus. 

The  toadstools  containing  deadly  poisons  are  thought  to  be  confined 
to  one  genus  of  the  gilled  kind — Amanita,  and  to  Helvella  esculenta, 
now  Gyromitra  esculenta,  to  which  are  charged  fatal  results.  The 
poisonous  qualities  of  Gyromitra  esculenta  are  not  proven.  Recent 
testings  of  this  species  prove  it  to  be  harmless  and  of  good  quality.  By 
far  the  greater  number  of  species  contained  in  Amanita  are  notable  for 
their  tender  substance  and  delicious  flavor.  By  their  stately  beauty  and 
unusual  attractiveness  both  the  poisonous  and  harmless  kinds  are  seduc- 
tive. Any  toadstool  with  white  or  lemon-yellow  gills,  casting  white 
spores  when  laid — gills  downward — upon  a  sheet  of  paper,  having  rem- 
nants of  a  fugitive  skin  in  the  shape  of  scabs  or  warts  upon  the  upper 
surface  of  its  cap,  with  a  veil  or  ring,  or  remnants  or  stains  of  one,  hav- 
ing at  the  base  of  its  stem — in  the  ground — a  loose,  skin-like  sheath  sur- 
rounding it,  or  remnants  of  one,  should  never  be  eaten  until  the  collector 
is  thoroughly  conversant  with  the  technicalities  of  every  such  species,  or 
has  been  taught  by  one  whose  autJiority  is  well  known ,  that  it  is  a  harm- 
less species.  This  rule  purposely  includes  the  renowned  Amanita  Cas- 
saria,  everywhere  written  as  luscious.  I  regard  it  as  the  most  dangerous 
of  toadstools,  because  of  its  close  resemblance  to  its  sister  plant — the 
Amanita  muscaria — which  is  deadly.  In  the  description  of  these  spe- 
cies, other  forcible  reasons  are  given. 

Another  deadly  species — the  Amanita  phalloides — is  frequently  mis- 
taken by  the  inexperienced  for  the  common  mushroom.  Safety  lies  in 
the  strict  observance  of  two  rules :  Never  eat  a  toadstool  found  in  the 
woods  or  shady  places,  believing  it  to  be  the  common  mushroom. 
Never  eat  a  white-  or  yellow-gilled  toadstool  in  the  same  belief.  The 
common  mushroom  does  not  grow  in  the  woods,  and  its  gills  are  at  first 
pink,  then  purplish-brown  or  black. 

If  through  carelessness,  or  by  accident,  a  poisonous  Amanita  has 
been  eaten,  and  sickness  results,  take  an  emetic  at  once,  and  send  for  a 
physician  with  instructions  to  bring  hypodermic  syringe  and  atropine 
sulphate.  The  dose  is  y^-g-  of  a  grain,  and  doses  should  be  continued 

xi 


Introduction 

heroically  until  the  -£$  of  a  grain  is  administered,  or  until,  in  the  phy- 
sician's opinion,  a  proper  quantity  has  been  injected.  Where  the  vic- 
tim is  critically  ill  the  -jV  of  a  grain  may  be  administered. 

In  every  case  of  toadstool  poisoning,  the  physician  must  be  guided 
by  the  symptoms  exhibited.  Professor  W.  S.  Carter,  by  numerous 
exhaustive  trials  upon  animals,  has  proved  that  atropine,  while  valuable 
as  against  the  first,  is  not  an  antidote  for  the  late  effects  of  the  greater 
toadstool  poisons.  (See  his  chapter  on  toadstool  poisons,  especially 
prepared  for  this  work.) 

There  are  other  species  which  contain  minor  poisons  producing  very 
undesirable  effects.  These  are  soon  remedied  by  taking  an  emetic, 
then  one  or  two  doses  of  whisky  and  sweet  oil;  or  vinegar  may  be 
substituted  for  the  whisky.  A  few  species  of  fungi  are  innocuous  to 
the  majority  of  persons  and  harmful  to  a  few.  So  it  is  with  many 
common  foods — strawberries,  apples,  tomatoes,  celery,  even  potatoes. 
The  beginner  at  toadstool  eating  usually  expects  commendation  for 
bravery,  and  fearfully  watches  for  hours  the  coming  of  something 
dreadful.  Indigestion  from  any  other  cause  is  always  laid  to  the  tradi- 
tionary enemy,  fright  ensues,  a  physician  is  called,  the  scare  spreads, 
and  a  pestilential  story  of  "  Severe  Poisoning  by  Toadstools,"  gets  into 
the  newspapers.  The  writer  has  traced  many  such  publications  to  im- 
prudences in  eating,  with  which  toadstools  had  nothing  to  do. 

The  authoritative  analysis  of  several  common  food  species  by  La- 
fayette B.  Mendel,  of  Sheffield  Laboratory  of  Physiological  Chemistry, 
Yale  University,  is  given,  and  will  correct  the  popular  error  about  the 
great  nutritive  value  of  fungi,  arising  from  previous  erroneous  analyses. 

While  species  are  reported  as  found  in  certain  localities,  it  by  no 
means  follows  that  their  growth  is  confined  to  these  places.  A  species 
reported  as  found  in  the  Adirondack  mountains,  unless  belonging  to  the 
few  peculiar  to  northern  regions  and  high  altitudes,  is  reasonably  sure 
to  be  more  plentiful  in  a  like  habitat  south  and  west  of  them.  South 
it  will  appear  earlier  and  its  season  last  longer . 

Size  is  largely  dependent  upon  latitude  and  may  vary  greatly  in  the 
same  group.  Temperature,  moisture,  favorable  nourishment  are  im- 
portant factors  in  growth. 

Each  species  has  its  favorite  habitat,  and  will  thrive  best  upon  it. 
There  are  few  things  under  the  sun  upon  which  fungi  do  not  grow. 
Their  mission  is  particularly  directed  toward  converting  decaying  mat- 

xii 


Introduction 

ter,  or  matter  which  has  accomplished  its  work  in  one  direction,  into 
usefulness  in  another.  They  are  the  wood-choppers,  stewards,  caterers 
of  the  forest,  converters  in  the  fields  and  chemists  everywhere.  They 
can  not  assimilate  inorganic  matter  because  of  the  absence  of  chlorophyl 
in  their  composition,  but  in  organic  matter  they  are  omnivorous.  When 
they  feed  on  dead  substances  they  are  called  saprophytes ;  when  their 
support  is  derived  from  living  tissues,  parasites. 

Scores  of  species  of  fungi  were  found  in  the  forests,  ravines  and  clear- 
ings of  the  West  Virginia  mountains  from  1881  to  1885  inclusive,  and 
eaten  by  the  writer  years  before  he  had  the  opportunity  to  learn  their 
names  from  books  or  obtain  the  friendly  assistance  of  experts  in  identi- 
fying them.  He  knew  the  individuals  without  knowing  their  names,  as 
one  knows  the  bird  song  and  plumage  before  formal  introduction  to  the 
pretty  creatures  that  charm  him. 

After  he  was  able  to  get  European  publications  upon  the  subject,  and 
by  their  aid  trace  the  species  he  had  eaten  to  their  names,  descriptions 
and  qualities,  he  was  surprised  to  read  that  many  of  them  were  warned 
against  as  deadly.  As  informed  by  these  books,  he  properly  ought  to 
have  died  several  times.  It  soon  became  evident  that  authors  had  fol- 
lowed one  another  in  condemning  species,  some  because  they  bore  brill- 
iant hues,  others  because  they  were  unpleasant  when  raw  (just  as  is  a 
potato),  rather  than  investigate  their  qualities  by  testing  them.  Here 
was  a  realm  of  food-giving  plants  almost  entirely  unexplored.  The 
writer  determined  to  explore  it.  Instead  of  the  one  hundred  and  eleven 
species  then  recorded  by  the  late  Doctor  Curtis  as  edible,  my  number 
of  edible  species  now  exceeds  his  by  over  six  hundred.* 

Let  us  clear  away  the  rubbish  and  superstition  that  have  so  long  ob- 
scured the  straight  path  to  a  knowledge  of  edible  toadstools.  Let  us 
bear  in  mind  that  a  mushroom  is  a  toadstool  and  a  toadstool  is  a  mush- 
room— the  terms  are  interchangeable.  If  toads  ever  occupied  the  one- 
legged  seat  assigned  them  from  time  immemorial,  they  have  learned  in 

*  This  book  contains  one  hundred  and  fifty  pages  more  than  were  originally  esti- 
mated and  promised  to  the  subscribers.  That  all  known  edible  and  poisonous  species 
might  be  fully  described  and  published  within  one  volume,  the  author  was  compelled 
to  cut  fifly  thousand  words  from  his  manuscript.  The  localities  from  which  species 
have  been  reported  and  the  names  of  the  reporters  have  been  taken  out,  excepting 
where  it  was  desirable  to  show  that  foreign  species  have  been  found  in  the  United 
States,  and  where  tested  species  have  been  found  by  the  author.  The  principal  cut 
has  been  from  the  notes  of  the  author  and  of  enlarged  descriptions. 

xiii 


Introduction 

this  enlightened  age  that  the  ground  is  much  more  reliable,  and  so  squat 
upon  it,  except  when  exercising  their  constitutional  right  to  hop.  Snails, 
slugs,  insects  of  many  kinds,  mice,  squirrels  and  rabbits  prey  upon  good 
and  bad,  each  to  its  liking,  notwithstanding  oft-repeated  assertion  that 
snails  and  slugs  infect  noxious  varieties  only,  or  that  animals  select  the 
innocuous  only.  We  are  warned  against  those  which  grow  in  the  dark 
or  damp ;  the  mushroom  of  commerce  is  grown  by  the  ton  in  the  sub- 
terranean quarries  of  France,  and  everywhere  in  vaults  and  cellars  for 
domestic  use.  The  valued  truffle  never  sees  the  light  until  it  is  taken 
from  darkness  to  be  eaten,  and  other  varieties  of  the  best  prefer  seclu- 
sion. 

The  wiseacres  tell  us  that  they  must  have  equal  gills,  must  not  have 
thin  tops,  must  not  turn  yellow  when  sprinkled  with  salt,  must  not 
blacken  a  silver  spoon,  that  we  must  not  eat  of  those  changing  color 
when  cut  or  broken,  of  those  exuding  milk,  or  those  which  are  acrid, 
hot,  or  bitter,  and  give  many  other  specifics  for  determining  the  good 
from  the  bad.  These  tests  are  all  worse  than  worthless,  for  if  confidence 
is  placed  in  them  they  will  not  only  lead  us  away  from  esculent  and 
excellent  varieties  but  directly  into  eating  venomous  ones. 

There  are  whole  genera  of  fungi  which  are  innocuous ;  but  in  the 
Family  of  Agaricaceae,  where  the  greatest  variety  of  the  edible  and  poison- 
ous species  are  found,  it  is  necessary  to  master  one  by  one  the  details 
of  their  construction  and  learn  to  distinguish  their  differences  as  one 
does  those  of  the  many  kinds  of  roses,  or  pinks,  or  hundreds  of  bright- 
faced  pansies,  and  in  the  mastery  of  them  lies  the  only  charm  that  will 
safely  guide. 

Carefully  remove  the  first  toadstool  found  from  whatever  it  is  growing 
upon,  and  with  it  a  portion  of  that  from  which  it  springs.  If  it  is  the 
earth  a  curious  white  network  is  discernible,  fine  as  the  delicate  spin- 
ning of  the  spider,  spreading  its  meshes  throughout  the  mass.  It  will 
often  remind  of  miniature  vines  climbing  over  miniature  lattices.  This 
is  the  mycelium  from  which  the  toadstool  grew.  In  many  instances  it 
penetrates  the  earth  to  a  considerable  depth,  and  takes  possession  of 
large  territory.  It  is  often  seen  as  the  gardener  turns  up  the  soil  or  its 
fertilizer,  and  is  perhaps  taken  for  a  mold.  If  the  specimen  is  gathered 
from  mat  of  wood  leaves,  the  same  white  vine  is  observable  slipping  in 
between  its  layers.  If  taken  from  a  tree,  the  decay  ing  wood  is  traversed 


xiv 


Introduction 

by  it.  From  wherever  a  toadstool  is  plucked,  it  is  removed  from  its 
mycelium. 

This  mycelium  is  but  a  thread-like  mass  of  simple  cells  joined 
together  at  their  ends  and  interlacing  in  a  way  a  thousand-fold  more 
intricate  than  a  Chinese  puzzle.  Nothing  in  its  structure  indicates  what 
its  special  product  will  be.  The  fungus  which,  is  plucked  from  it  is  in 
all  its  parts  simply  a  mass  of  these  threads — cells  strung  together,  in- 
terlacing and  ramifying. 

When  the  season  favors,  the  mycelium — which  has,  winter  and  sum- 
mer and  from  year  to  year,  lived  its  hidden  life,  or  has  sprung  from  a 
germinating  spore — develops  a  number  of  its  cells  in  a  minute  knob, 
small  as  a  pin  head.  At  this  point  the  cells  make  special  growth 
efforts  to  bring  themselves  within  the  favoring  influences  of  heat  and 
moisture;  this  tiny  knob  labors  within  itself,  producing  cell  after  cell, 
which  takes  shape  and  function  for  the  future  toadstool. 

As  it  rapidly  enlarges  it  pushes  its  way  toward  the  surface  of  the 
ground,  becomes  more  or  less  egg-shaped  in  this  stage  of  its  growth, 
and  if  cut  in  half  longitudinally  and  examined,  it  will  display  what  it  is 
going  to  be  when  it  grows  up. 

Suppose  that  it  belongs  to  the  first  of  the  two  great  sections  into 
which  fungi  are  divided  under  the  classification  of  Fries,  who  modified 
that  of  Persoon.  The  first  has  the  spores — which  represent  the  seeds 
in  plants — naked,  and  it  is  called  sporifera  or  spore-bearing.  The  sec- 
ond, which  has  the  spores  enclosed  in  cells  or  cysts,  is  called  sporidifera 
or  sporidia-bearing.  If  the  cap  of  a  gill-bearing  toadstool  be  laid,  gills 
downward,  on  a  watch  crystal  or  piece  of  white  paper  for  a  few  hours, 
or,  in  some  instances,  a  few  minutes,  a  complete  representation  of  the 
spaces  between  the  gills  will  be  found  deposited  as  an  impalpable  pow- 
der. These  are  the  spores. 

The  first  section  is  divided  into  four  cohorts.  Two  of  these  have 
hymeniums  or  spore-bearing  surfaces  more  or  less  expanded.  These 
are  Hymenomycetes  and  Gastromycetes.  In  Hymenomycetes  the 
hymenium  is  always  exposed  in  matured  plants,  as  with  the  common 
mushroom.  When  young,  some  plants  are  covered  with  a  membrane. 
In  Gastromycetes  the  hymenium  is  always  concealed  within  a  covering 
which  bursts  at  maturity,  as  with  the  Lycoperdons  or  puff-balls.  Cohort 
Coniomycetes  includes  rusts,  smuts,  etc.,  formed  for  the  most  part  on 
living  plants.  There  is  no  hymenium  present.  The  spores  are  produced 

xv 


Introduction 

on  the  ends  of  inconspicuous  threads,  free  or  enclosed  in  a  bottle-like 
receptacle  called  a  perithecium.  Cohort  Hypomycetes  is  composed 
of  those  species  of  fungi  commonly  called  molds.  The  spores  are 
produced,  naked,  from  the  ends  of  inconspicuous  threads. 

In  the  Agaricaceae — the  first  family  in  Hymenomycetes — the  young 
plant  is  completely  enveloped.  (Plate  III,  fig.  B,  p.  2.)  Its  head  is 
as  yet  undefined  and  its  body  may  be  classed  as  dumpy,  but  shut  in 
and  protected  are  a  great  quantity  of  knife-like  plaits  (Plate  III,  fig.  C., 
p.  2),  on  the  outer  surface  of  which,  when  the  plant  matures,  will  be 
borne  its  spores.  It  therefore  belongs  to  the  Hymenomycetes,  and  to 
the  Family  Agaricaceae — gill-bearing. 

If  the  ground  becomes  moist  or  there  comes  a  heavy  dew  or  a  rain, 
the  young  plant,  closely  compacted  and  very  solid,  which  has  been 
under  the  surface  for  many  days  waiting  its  chance  to  get  forth  to  light 
and  air,  rapidly  swells,  breaks  through  the  moistened  earth,  goes 
rapidly  to  cell-making,  ruptures  its  outside  covering,  the  head  expands 
and  in  so  doing  spreads  out  its  gills  or  hymenium.  (Plate  III,  figs.  C, 
D,  E,  p.  2.)  The  membrane  which  covered  the  gills  either  vanishes, 
or  gathers  round  the  stem  in  the  form  of  a  ring  or  circular  apron,  or  it 
may  partially  adhere  to  the  edges  of  the  top,  cap  or  pileus  and  hang  as 
a  fringe  from  it ;  the  stem  elongates ;  the  whole  plant  assumes  the  colors 
of  its  species  and  in  a  few  hours  or  days  at  most  it  stands  forth,  a 
marvel  of  beauty,  structure  and  workmanship. 

But  little  is  known  of  how  these  spores  reproduce  themselves.  The 
microscope  fails  to  completely  penetrate  the  mystery.  A  whole  fungus 
is  but  a  mass  of  cells,  the  spore  is  but  one  of  them.  That  these  simple 
cells  do  produce  after  their  kind  there  is  no  doubt,  but  so  minute  is  the 
germ  and  hidden  its  methods  that  science  has  failed  to  solve  them. 

The  first  Family  of  Hymenomycetes  is  Agaricaceae.  Its  members 
always  have  gills  or  modifications  of  them.  In  some  cases — notably  in 
Cantharellus — the  gills  have  the  appearance  of  smooth,  raised  veins 
over  which  is  the  spore-bearing  surface.  The  hymenium  is  but  an 
extension  of  the  fibers  of  the  cap,  folded  up  like  the  plaits  and  flutings 
of  ruffles,  and  laundered  with  exquisite  neatness.  If  it  is  carefully 
detached  and  spread  out  like  a  fan  it  will  cover  a  large  surface,  many 
times  the  size  of  the  cap  from  which  it  has  been  taken,  and  will  show 
that  what  is  a  consumption  of  material  in  dress  ornamentation  is 
utilized  by  economical  Dame  Nature  to  increase  the  spore-bearing 

ii  xvi 


Introduction 

surface  within  a  small  space  and  for  purely  business  purposes — spore- 
bearing.  The  color  of  these  spores  has  much  to  do  with  the  classifica- 
tion. The  microscope  with  high  light  reveals  the  delicate  shades  of 
their  coloring,  but  the  main  colors  are  readily  distinguished  by  the 
naked  eye  when  the  spores  are  collected  in  a  mass  on  glass  or  paper. 

The  Polyporaceae  have  in  place  of  gills  closely  packed  tubes  on  the 
inside  of  which  is  the  spore-bearing  surface ;  each  has  a  mouth  from 
which  to  eject  the  spores. 

The  Hydnaceae  bear  their  spores  from  spines  or  spicules  of  various 
length  protruding  from  the  external  surface  of  the  cap.  Sometimes  the 
spines  mock  in  miniature  the  stalactites  of  the  Caverns  of  Luray,  some- 
times the  shaggy  mane  of  the  lion,  sometimes  flowing  locks  of  hair. 
These  three  Families  belong  to  the  Cohort  Hymenomycetes,  having 
their  spore-bearing  surface  exposed  early  in  life  by  the  rupture  of  the 
universal  veil. 

The  Lycoperdons  or  Puff-balls  have  the  hymenium  enclosed  within  an 
outer  case,  just  as  the  apple  with  its  seeds  is  enclosed  for  a  dumpling. 
When  the  spores  are  matured  the  sack  is  ruptured  and  they  escape  as 
the  dusty  powder  so  well  known  to  all.  The  Puff-ball  belongs  to  the 
Cohort  Gastromycetes,  because  its  spores  are  protected  within  the  hy- 
menium until  they  are  matured. 

There  are  other  Families  which  contain  edible  species.  The  Clavar- 
iaceae — branched  or  club-shaped  often  found  in  as  beautiful  forms  as 
delight  us  in  coral,  includes  a  few. 

In  Ascomycetes,  of  the  covered  spore  division  Sporidifera,  there  are 
several  species  which  are  excellent,  and  as  they  dry  readily  are  much 
valued  for  flavoring  purposes  when  winter  forbids  the  growth  of  outdoor 
fungi.  Of  these  the  Morell  has  preference.  The  cap  is  covered  with 
sinuosities  and  pits  which  bear  the  spores.  There  are  several  varieties 
of  the  Morell  in  the  United  States.  They  are  known  among  the  coun- 
try people  who  cook  and  pickle  them,  as  Honey-comb  mushrooms. 

The  Tuberaceae  are  subterranean  fungi.  The  common  truffle  so 
much  prized  by  epicures  is  a  good  representative.  It  is  found  a  foot  or 
more  under  the  surface  of  the  earth,  and  of  such  value  is  it  that  in  some 
countries  pigs  are  trained  to  hunt  it  from  its  hiding  place.  It  is  one  of 
the  few  foreign  growths  apparently  not  taking  kindly  to  our  country. 
Efforts  have  been  made  to  import  and  cultivate  it,  but  without  success. 


xvn 


Introduction 

It  is  possible,  even  probable,  that  it  may  yet  be  found  in  America  by 
assiduous  search. 

I  have  said  that  there  is  but  one  way  to  distinguish  the  edible  from 
the  non-edible  fungi ;  that  is  by  mastering  the  characteristics  of  each 
species  one  by  one.  There  are  signs  which  point  to  the  evil  and  those 
which  point  to  the  good,  but  they  must  be  used  as  signals,  not  directors. 

A  nauseous,  fetid  odor  should  condemn  a  species  as  non-edible  at 
once.  Those  having  the  flavor  of  flour  or  fresh  meal  are  generally 
accepted  as  worthy  of  trial.  Slimy,  water-soaked,  partially  decom- 
posed plants,  or  those  impressing  one  as  unpleasant  in  any  way,  should 
never  find  their  place  upon  the  table.  Do  not  eat  of  any  toadstool, 
unknown  to  the  collector,  beyond  the  careful  and  systematic  testing 
required  to  determine  whether  it  is  edible  or  not. 

A  few  species  have  a  serious  charge  remaining  against  them ;  that  of 
partiality.  They  unmistakably  signify  with  whom  they  will  agree  and 
with  whom  they  will  not.  These  are  notably  Clitocybe  illudens,  Lepiota 
Morgani,  Panaeolus  papilionaceus,  all  specialized  in  their  places  in  the 
text. 

Other  species  have  hereditary  taints  upon  their  reputations.  Most, 
if  not  all  of  them  have  stood  present  tests  and  relieved  themselves  of 
suspicion.  But,  alas  that  it  should  be  so !  The  stigma  must  rest  upon 
them  for  yet  a  while  and  until  their  defenders  are  so  numerous  that  their 
purity,  without  a  smirch,  is  popularly  proclaimed. 

Wherever  wood  grows  and  decays  as  it  will,  Polyporus,  Panus,  Len- 
zites,  Schizophyllum  and  kindred  genera  stand  prominently  forth  in 
countless  numbers.  The  great  majority  of  them  are  inedible  because  of 
their  woody  substance.  A  few  are  valued  as  food.  Very  many  of  them 
yield  their  soluble  matter  and  flavor  when  boiled,  and  in  this  way  make 
excellent  soups  and  gravies,  just  as  flax-seed  and  the  bark  of  the  slip- 
pery elm  yield  succulent  matter.  These,  however,  are  not,  with  a  few 
exceptions,  mentioned  in  this  book.  Numbers  of  Clavarieae  and  Hyd- 
neae  are  in  the  same  category.  M.  C.  Cooke  tersely  says:  "Fruits 
that  are  not  peaches  or  apricots  maybe  very  good  plums."  In  the  in- 
troductions to  genera  their  attributes  are  given;  under  "Instructions  to 
Students"  every  guide  to  identification  and  selection  will  be  found. 

A  Glossary,  containing  the  botanic  terms  used  in  this  book  and,  it  is 
believed,  all  other  terms  used  by  mycologists  in  describing  fungi,  follows 
the  descriptive  text.  It  is  strongly  advised  that  it  be  carefully  studied. 


Introduction 

The  roots  and  derivatives  of  the  botanic  terms  are  fully  and  carefully 
given  by  Dr.  John  W.  Harshberger,  professor  of  botany,  University  of 
Pennsylvania,  to  whom  the  author  is  specially  indebted. 

The  excellent  Glossary  published  by  Dr.  Edwin  A.  Daniels,  Boston, 
has  furnished  many  comprehensive  definitions.  It  is  the  property  of 
the  Boston  Mycological  Club,  and  can  be  obtained  from  its  secretary 
for  twenty-five  cents. 

The  determination  of  the  proper  accentuation  of  the  generic  and  spe- 
cific terms  has  been  in  many  cases  a  difficult  task,  and,  in  some  cases, 
owing  to  the  dubious  origin  of  the  words  in  question,  there  is  certainly 
room  for  difference  of  opinion.  This  task  has  been  kindly  and  con- 
scientiously performed  by  Prof.  M.  W.  Easton,  professor  of  Compara- 
tive and  English  Philology,  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Thanks  are 
due  to  the  Hon.  Addison  Brown,  president  of  the  Torrey  Botanical 
Club,  and  Dr.  Nathaniel  L.  Britton,  professor  of  Botany  in  Columbia 
College,  authors  of  "  Illustrated  Flora,"  for  the  determination  of  the 
accentuation  of  non-classical  words  ending  in  imis. 

Three  indexes  are  given :  the  first  refers  to  the  general  contents,  the 
second  to  the  genera,  the  third  to  species  and  their  genera,  alphabetic- 
ally arranged. 

Mrs.  Emma  P.  Ewing  and  Mrs.  Sarah  T.  Rorer  have  kindly  furnished 
some  of  their  recipes  for  the  preparation  of  several  varieties  of  toad- 
stools. The  best  results  of  the  author's  long  experience  in  cooking 
toadstools  are  given  in  the  chapter  ' '  Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Prepar- 
ing for  the  Table,"  together  with  others  selected  from  many  sources. 
The  personal  taste  of  the  server  must  be  guide  to  the  choice. 

A  child-friend  of  the  writer,  in  telling  him  of  her  mother's  cook,  said : 
"  She's  a  good  cooker,  but  she  has  a  bad  temper."  A  good  "cooker" 
will  soon  learn  how  to  best  display  the  individual  flavor  of  each  species. 
And  be  it  known  that  each  species  of  toadstool  has  a  flavor  of  its  own. 
These  flavors  vary  as  much  as  among  meats  and  vegetables.  No  one 
species  can  be  taken  as  standard  of  excellence. 

The  greatest  care  has  been  taken  to  secure  illustrations  correct  in 
every  botanic  detail.  With  few  exceptions  the  colored  figures  were 
drawn  and  painted  by  the  writer.  To  obtain  this  important  feature  the 
requirements  of  art  have  frequently  been  sacrificed.  An  artist  can  make 
a  picture  of  a  toadstool ;  the  mycologist  must  guide  his  brush  or  pencil 
in  the  making  of  a  correct  presentation.  The  happy  combination  of 


Introduction 

artist  and  mycologist  occurs  in  Mr.  Val.  W.  Starnes,  Augusta,  Ga.,  to 
whom  this  volume  owes  many  of  its  illustrations.  Mr.  Frank  D.  Bris- 
coe,  widely  known  as  an  artist  of  rare  ability,  has  arranged  and  painted 
in  groups  the  studies  made  by  the  writer  from  typical  plants,  and  added 
to  the  illustrations  many  excellent  drawings  of  his  own. 

The  unfailing  reliability  of  the  sun  has  been  masterfully  used  by  Dr. 
J.  R.  Weist,  ex-Secretary  of  the  American  Society  of  Surgeons,  Rich- 
mond, Ind. ;  H.  I.  Miller,  Superintendent  Terre  Haute  and  Indianapolis 
Railroad,  Terre  Haute,  Ind.,  and  Mr.  Luther  G.  Harpel,  Lebanon,  Pa., 
in  making  the  unexcelled  photographs  generously  contributed  by  them. 
The  author  is  most  thankful  to  them  and  to  Mr.  C.  G.  Lloyd,  Cincin- 
nati, Ohio — a  scientific  gentleman  devoting  lavishly  of  his  time  and 
money  to  the  spread  of  mycological  knowledge — for  the  privilege  of 
selecting  from  his  extensive  collection  of  realistic  photographs  those 
adaptable  to  the  species  described  herein. 

The  author's  thanks  are  gratefully  given  to  the  many  who  have  by 
help  and  encouragement  furthered  his  efforts  in  producing  this,  the 
first  American  text-book  upon  fungi.  Space  precludes  the  naming  of 
the  many,  but  the  few  named  do  not  outrank  them  in  their  interest,  help 
and  the  author's  appreciation: 

Miss  Lydia  M.  Patchen,  President  of  the  Westfield,  N.  Y.,  Toadstool 
Club  (the  first  in  America);  Mrs.  E.  C.  Anthony,  Thomas  J.  Collins, 
E.  B.  Sterling,  Berry  Benson,  Melvil  Dewey,  New  York  State  Librarian; 
Dr.  J.  E.  Schadle,  Prof.  J.  P.  Arnold,  University  of  Pennsylvania; 
Prof.  W.  S.  Carter,  University  of  Texas;  Boston  School  of  Natural 
History;  Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society;  Prof.  Wm.  G.  Farlow, 
University  of  Harvard. 

Thus  aided  the  author  believes  that  his  own  conscientious,  patient, 
loved  labor  in  the  study  of  edible  and  non-edible  fungi  and  the  produc- 
tion of  this  volume  will  be  far-reaching  in  its  one  object — encouraging 
the  study  of  toadstools. 

The  time  for  writing  a  complete  flora  of  the  United  States  has  not 
yet  come ;  a  large  part  of  the  country  remains  as  yet  unexplored  by 
mycologists ;  new  species  are  being  constantly  discovered  in  the  districts 
best  known.  Every  book  on  the  subject  must  be  necessarily  incomplete. 

On  the  other  hand,  so  far  as  concerns  the  known  fungus-flora,  there 
is  imperative  need  of  some  guide  to  the  student,  which  shall  at  least 
save  him  some  part  of  the  weary  toil  of  hunting  through  the  scattered 

xx 


Introduction 

literature  in  which  alone,  as  things  are  at  present,  can  be  found  the  in- 
formation he  seeks.  In  this  book  I  have  tried  to  meet  this  need.  It  is 
not  complete,  but  I  have  tried  to  so  arrange  the  matter  that  the  student 
can  always  decide  whether  the  particular  specimen  in  hand  is  or  is  not 
included,  and,  at  least  for  all  of  our  more  conspicuous  fungi,  determine 
the  family  and  genus.  If  the  student  can  do  so  much,  the  task  of  find- 
ing the  specific  name,  even  when  not  included  in  this  book,  becomes 
very  much  simpler. 

So  much  for  the  more  scientific  aspect  of  my  book.  But  I  have 
also  kept  in  constant  view  the  needs  of  the  large  and  constantly  growing 
number  of  persons  who  have  no  aim  further  than  to  learn  to  know  the 
principal  toadstools  seen  in  their  walks,  just  as  they  wish  to  know  the 
principal  trees  and  the  more  conspicuous  birds.  For  such  as  these,  the 
difficulty  of  deciding  whether  or  no  a  particular  individual  fungus  is 
described  in  the  brief  (sketching)  manuals  hitherto  accessible  is  even 
more  formidable  than  with  the  special  student  of  botany. 

Finally,  I  have  kept  in  view  throughout  the  work  the  needs  of  the 
mycophagists.  They  are  not  pot-hunters;  they  care  much  less  for  the 
physical  pleasure  of  the  appetite  than  for  the  close  study  of  Nature 
that  their  inclination  leads  them  into.  Some  day  the  delights  of  a 
mushroom  hunt  along  lush  pastures  and  rich  woodlands  will  take  the 
rank  of  the  gentlest  craft  among  those  of  hunting,  and  may  perchance 
find  its  own  Izaak  Walton. 

AUTHOR'S  AND  PUBLISHER'S  NOTE. 

It  is  the  intention  of  the  author  and  the  publisher  to  keep  this  book 
up  to  date.  Recognizing  that  future  testing  will  prove  many  more 
species  of  toadstools  to  be  edible,  and  that  scientists  will  have  more 
exact  knowledge  of  toadstool  poisons  and  their  antidotes,  they  announce 
that  illustrated  sheets  publishing  new  edible  species  and  current  informa- 
tion upon  fungi  will  be,  from  time  to  time,  issued,  conforming  in  shape 
and  style  to  this  volume  and  at  an  acceptable  price. 

That  the  author  and  publishers  may  keep  in  touch  with  the  owner  of 
each  volume,  and  be  informed  of  new  discoveries  in  species  and  of  new 
experience,  owners  are  requested  to  communicate  their  book  numbers 
to  Captain  Charles  Mcllvaine,  or  the  Bobbs-Merrill  Co.,  Indianapolis. 


xxi 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  STUDENTS 


To  CATCH  fish  one  must  know  more  than  the  fish ;  to  find  toadstools 
one  must  know  their  season  and  habitats.  They  are  propagated  by  their 
spores  and  from  their  mycelium — that  web-like  growth  which  is  the  re- 
sult of  spore  germination. 

The  spores  of  ground-growing  kinds,  when  shed  upon  the  ground, 
are  washed  by  rains  along  the  natural  drainage ;  therefore,  when  a  speci- 
men of  one  of  these  kinds  is  found,  it  is  well  to  look  up  and  down  the 
natural  water-shed,  and  follow  it.  Good  reward  will  usually  come  of  it. 
Few  fungi  are  strictly  solitary. 

Careful  observation  of  the  habitats  of  the  various  genera  and  species 
will  enable  the  student  to  know  what  may  and  may  not  be  expected  in 
a  particular  locality,  and  will  save  many  a  hunt. 

When  an  unknown  species  is  found,  collect  it  carefully,  examine  it 
closely,  note  all  its  features.  Determine  to  which  division  of  fungi  it 
belongs.  If  to  the  gilled  family  (Agaricaceae)  obtain  the  color  of  the 
spores  (see  directions).  Look  at  the  chart  "Tabular  View  of  Genera 
of  Agaricaceae,"  Plate  I,  p.  2  (after  W.  G.  Smith,  but  enlarged,  redrawn 
and  emended).  If  the  spores  are  white,  it  belongs  to  one  of  the  genera 
in  the  first  column — Leucosporae;  if  pink,  to  one  in  the  second  column, 
and  so  on.  It  is  often  difficult  to  determine  the  spore  color,  because 
spores  vary  through  many  shades  of  the  typical  color.  What  are  called 
white  spores  may  be  creamy,  dirty,  yellowish  or  brownish-white ;  pink 
spores  will  vary  from  almost  white  to  reddish  and  salmon-color ;  brown 
spores  from  light-ochraceous  through  cinnamon  to  rusty ;  purple  spores 
from  dark-violet  to  purplish-black.  Experience  alone  will  enable  the 
student  to  decide  which  color  series  is  present.  The  Genera  Charts,  pre- 
ceding the  five  different  color  series,  show  typical  spore  colors  only. 
Again,  authors  describing  the  species  frequently  fail  to  see  colors  alike; 
if  they  do,  their  names  for  them  frequently  vary.  For  instance,  few 
persons  will  agree  upon  a  color  expressed  as  "  livid." 

xxiii 


Instructions  to  Students 

The  color  system  principally  used  by  botanists  is  Saccardo's  "Chro- 
motaxia,"  costing  fifty  cents.  It  is  decidedly  inadequate.  Ridgway's 
"Nomenclature  of  Colors  for  Naturalists"  is  far  better,  but  it  is  out  of 
print  and  obtainable  only  at  the  principal  libraries.  "The  Prang  Stand- 
ard of  Color"  is  the  most  complete  ever  issued,  but  it  is  inapplicable  to 
existing  descriptions  of  fungi. 

Take,  to  print  upon,  sheets  of  Bristol-board  or  any  stiff,  hard-sur- 
T  M  ,  .  faced  white  paper  6x9  inches  or  larger.  Cut  a  round 
Preserve  hole,  four  inches  in  diameter,  in  one  of  the  sheets.  Use 

this  as  a  stencil.  Lay  it  upon  a  print-sheet  and  where 
the  opening  occurs,  paint  with  a  weak  solution  of  gum  arabic — H  oz. 
(one  teaspoonful)  to  one  pint  of  water.  Dry  the  print-sheets. 

When  a  spore-print  is  to  be  taken,  select  a  fully-grown  specimen,  re- 
move the  stem,  place  the  spore-bearing  surface  upon  the  gummed 
paper,  cover  tightly  with  an  inverted  bowl  or  saucer,  and  allow  to  stand 
undisturbed  for  eight  or  ten  hours.  The  moisture  in  the  plant  will 
soften  the  gummed  surface ;  the  spores  will  be  shed  and  will  adhere  to 
it,  making  a  perfect,  permanent  print.  When  the  print  is  plain,  remove 
the  specimen  carefully  and  dry  the  print.  Number  the  print-cards  to 
correspond  with  the  number  of  the  specimen  in  the  "Record  of  Fungi," 
and  place  them  in  a  box  or  cover.  Some  genera  shed  their  spores  sooner 
and  more  freely  than  others.  A  surplus  of  spores  is  objectionable.  In 
order  to  know  when  a  print  is  plainly  made,  without  disturbing  the 
process,  have  either  a  specimen  of  the  same  age,  or  a  piece  of  the  one 
under  the  bowl,  on  another  piece  of  gummed  paper,  covered  in  like 
manner.  This  can  be  examined  and  will  give  the  desired  information. 
A  little  experience  will  enable  the  student  to  obtain  good  and  lasting 
prints. 

The  large  black  figures  on  some  calendars,  if  cut  with  the  white  about 
them,  are  convenient  as  trial  sheets  for  spore-printing.  Lay  the  speci- 
men partly  on  the  white,  partly  on  the  black.  If  the  spores  are  light, 
they  show  best  on  black  ground,  and  if  colored,  they  show  best  on  the 
light. 

Spore  measurements,  as  given  by  different  observers,  vary  to  such  a 
degree  that  they  are  of  little  value,  excepting  as  determining  a  few 
species,  but  spore  shapes  and  characteristics  are  of  use  as  a  last  resort, 
in  accurate  determinations.  A  microscope  of  considerable  power  is 
needed. 


xxiv 


Instructions  to  Students 


A  metrical  scale  and  table  of  measures  is  here  given,  that  the  student 
may  have  a  present  guide  to  such  measurements  as  are  given  in  myco- 
logical  publications. 


INCHES 


J 

2                                                     3                                                    « 

MINIMI, 
Sixteenths 

INI 

II  1  1  II  1  II  1  II  1  1  1  1   II  1  1  1 
1 

1   1   1   M   1   1   II   M  1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1  1   1   1   1   1   1 
1                     1 

Millimetre! 

i  ILIIII 

JJ. 

II  II 

|l!|    Illllll  II 

IIIHIIII 

LLU1LLU 

Dee«j»c 

1  II  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  III  1  1 

3                    1 

34                     5                    6                    7                    «                    »                   10 

CENT1METBE5 

i  Metre  (m) 39-371         Inches. 

I  Decimetre  (dm) 3-9371       Inches. 

i  Centimetre  (cm) 39371     Inch. 

i  Millimetre  (mm) 039371  Inch. 


i  Line. 


TT2         Inch. 


i  Micron 


Millimetre 
Inch. 


i  Gramme 15-433        Grains  Troy. 

I  Decigramme 1 . 5433      Grains  Troy. 

I  Centigramme 15433    Grains  Troy. 

i  Milligramme 015433  Grains  Troy. 


The  spore  color  being  determined,  turn  to  the  Genera  Chart,  showing 
Use  of  Charts  spores  of  like  color.  Ascertain  from  the  specimen  whether 
of  Genera.  or  not  j£S  cap  or  hymenophore  is  distinct  or  easily  sep- 

arable from  the  stem  and  the  gills  free  from  the  stem;  if  they  are,  it 
may  belong  to  one  of  the  genera  in  the  upper  row  of  figures ;  if  the  cap 
is  not  easily  separable  nor  the  gills  free,  look  at  the  shape  of  the  gills, 
and  find  on  the  chart  a  corresponding  gill-shape.  It  is  probable  that 
the  genus  can  thus  be  determined.  Then  turn  to  this  genus  in  the  text, 
read  the  heading,  look  over  the  "Analysis  of  Tribes,"  go  to  the  tribe 
nearest  in  designating  the  properties  of  the  specimen ;  comparing  the 
specimen  with  the  descriptions  of  species  given  thereunder,  will  probably 
enable  the  seeker  to  decide  upon  its  name. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  the  descriptions  in  the  text  are  of  the 

xxv 


Instructions  to  Students 

specimen  or  specimens  which  the  author  of  the  species  saw.  What  the 
author  says  fixes  the  type  of  the  species.  Specimens  of  the  species 
may,  and  very  frequently  do,  vary  greatly  from  the  type.  If  the  first 
attempt  to  fix  the  genus  is  not  satisfactory,  try  again,  and  keep  on  try- 
ing until  reasonably  sure.  The  amateur  will  find,  however  good  an 
opinion  may  exist  in  his  mind  of  the  stock  of  patience  on  hand,  that  the 
territory  of  patience  has  just  been  reached. 

An  excellent  blank  form  for  "Collectors'  Notes"  is  published  by  the 
Maki  ,  Boston  Mycological  Club,  at  one  cent.  It  is  desirable 

Preserving:  that  there  should  be  uniformity  in  collectors'  notes,  and 
Notes 

that  they  should  be  as  full  as  possible.    A  form  of  this,  or 

a  similar  kind,  should  be  filled  in  and  kept,  and  should  also  be  used 
when  specimens  are  sent  to  an  expert  for  identification.  Such  specimens 
should  be  fresh,  wrapped  separately  in  tissue  paper,  numbered,  and  a 
few  should  be  packed  in  a  box  that  will  not  crush  in  the  mail.  The 
address  of  the  sender  should  be  upon  the  outside.  The  collector's 
notes  should  be  sent  in  a  letter,  with  a  postage  stamp  for  reply  enclosed. 
If  the  specimens  have  to  go  a  great  distance,  they  should  be  partially 
dried  in  a  slow,  open  oven,  or  they  will  be  a  rotten  mass  when  they 
reach  their  destination. 

There  is  but  one  way  by  which  to  determine  the  edibility  of  a  species. 
To  Test  ^  ^  ^°°^s  and  smells  inviting,  and  its  species  can  not  be 

Edibility  of        determined,  taste  a  very  small  piece.     Do  not  swallow  it. 

Q|k/lSfjS}Q 

Note  the  effect  on  the  tongue  and  mouth.  But  many 
species,  delicious  when  cooked,  are  not  inviting  raw.  Cook  a  small 
piece;  do  not  season  it.  Taste  again;  if  agreeable  eat  it  (unless  it  is 
an  Amanita).  After  several  hours,  no  unpleasant  effect  arising,  cook  a 
larger  piece,  and  increase  the  quantity  until  fully  satisfied  as  to  its 
qualities.  Never  vary  from  this  system,  no  matter  how  much  tempted. 
No  possible  danger  can  arise  from  adhering  firmly  to  it.  Recipes  for 
preparing,  cooking  and  serving  are  given  in  chapter  on  cooking. 

It  is  better  for  the  student  to  first  become  familiar  with  the  common 
species,  one  at  a  time,  than  to  attempt  tracing  the  rare  or  many. 
Worry,  fatigue  and  uncertainty  are  plentiful  in  an  indiscriminate  gather- 
ing of  fungi.  One  species  a  day,  properly  traced  and  named,  means 
learning  three  hundred  and  sixty-five  species  a  year. 


XXVI 


Instructions  to  Students 

Unfamiliar  terms  will  be  encountered  in  the  descriptive  text.     The 

Glossary  defines  them ;  and  not  only  those  in  this  book, 
The  Glossary.  .         .        .      ..     ,  ,  .        ,       , 

but,  it  is  believed,  all  those  found  in  other  books  upon 

fungi.  Where  possible  throughout  the  text,  botanical  terms  have  been 
anglicized.  The  meanings  of  those  remaining  unchanged  should  be 
memorized.  It  is  quite  as  easy,  and  far  better,  to  learn  the  botanical 
names  of  species  and  their  characteristics,  as  to  learn  their  common 
names;  easier  in  fact,  for  the  common  names  often  vary  with  locality. 
The  writer  received  a  letter  from  an  Alsatian  living  in  St.  Louis,  telling 
him  of  favorite  fungi  he  used  to  eat  when  in  his  own  country.  To  all 
he  gave  local  names,  not  one  of  which  could  be  referred  to  the  particu- 
lar species  meant. 

Success  and  pleasure  in  the  study  of  fungi  will  attend  the  student 
who  observes  carefully  and  who  systematically  records  that  which  is 
observed. 


xxvn 


PLATES  I  AND  II 


GILL    SHAPES 


RING    SHAPES    AND    POSITIONS 


VOLVA    SHAPES 


XXIX 


PLATE  I. 


GILL  SHAPES. 


PIG.  1.  GILLS  AS  VEINS  ;  CAP  INFUNDIBULIFOBM.       FIG.  9. 

2.  GILLS  BOUNDED  IN  FEONT  (anteriorly.)  10. 

3.  GILLS  BOUNDED  BEHIND  (posteriorly.)  11. 

4.  GILLS  LANCEOLATE.  12. 

5.  GILLS  VENTEICOSE.  13. 

6.  GILLS  UNEQUAL  ;  CAP  CONVEX.  14. 

7.  GILLS  ADNEXED. 

8.  GlLLS  EMAEGINATE,  ALSO  ADNATB  AND  15. 

HAVING  DECUEEENT  TOOTH. 


GlLLS  8EBBATB. 

GILLS  FLEXUOSE;  WAVED. 

GILLS  DICHOTOMOUS. 

GILLS  FEEE  ;  CAP  BBOADLY  UMBONATE. 

GILLS  NAEEOW  ;  CAP  MAEGIN  EEFLEXED. 

GlLLS  SLIGHTLY  ADNEXED  ;  CAP  UMBO- 

NATE;  MAEGIN  INVOLUTE. 
GILLS  DECUEBENT  ;  CAP  UMBILICATE. 


PLATE  it. 


RING  SHAPES  AND  POSITIONS;  VOLVA  SHAPES. 


FIG.  1.    RING  SUPERIOR,  BROAD. 

2.  RING  MEDIAL,  PENDULOUS. 

3.  RING  INFERIOR  (low  down). 

4.  RING  NARROW,  FRAGMENTS  APPENDICU- 

LATE. 

5.  RING  FIBRILLOSE. 


FIG.  6.  RING  PERSISTENT,  SOMETIMES  MOVABLE. 

7.  VOLVA  FREE. 

8.  VOLVA  SEPARATING,  CIRCUMSCTSSILE. 

9.  VOLVA  IRREGULARLY,  CIRCUMSCISSILE. 

10.    VOLVA  FRIABLE,  DISAPPEARING. 


CLASS,  FUNGI 


SUB-CLASS  BASIDIOMYCETES 

COHORT    HTMENOMTCETES.       Gr.-a  membrane,  a  fruit-bearing  sur- 
face;  Gr. — a  mushroom.   (So  called  from  the  hymenium  or  fruit-bearing  surface.) 


UNGI  composed  of  membranes,  fleshy,  woody  or  gelatin- 
ous, growing  on  wood  or  on  the  ground.  The  hymenium 
or  spore-bearing  surface  exposed  at  an  early  stage.  The 
spores  are  borne  on  basidia,  spread  over  the  surface. 
The  common  mushroom  is  typical  of  the  family.  All  the 
members  resemble  it,  more  or  less,  in  organization  and  reproductive 
organs.  These  latter,  in  the  mushroom,  are  spread  over  lamella;  or 
gills.  The  spores,  after  ripening  and  dissemination,  germinate  and 
produce  a  mycelium  or  thread-like  vine,  which  in  turn  develops  the 
spore-producing  part  of  the  plant.  Hymenomycetes  is  divided  into  the 
following  six  Families:  — 

a.    HYMENIUM  FIGURATE. 

I.    Spread  over  the  surface  of  lamellae  or  gills AGARICACE^E. 

II.    Lining  the  interior  of  tubes  or  pores POLYPORACE^E. 

III.  Clothing  the  surface  of  spines  or  protuberances  of  various  forms HYDNACE^E. 

b.    HYMENIUM  EVEN. 

IV.  Horizontal  and  mostly  on  the  under  surface THELEPHORACE^:. 

V.    Vertical  and  produced  all  over  the  surface CLAVARIACE^. 

VI.    Superior,  gelatinous  fungi .TREMELLACE^E. 

FAMILY  I.— AGARIC ACE^J. 

In  the  Agaricaceae  the  hymenium  is  spread  over  lamellse  or  gills 
which  radiate  from  a  center  or  stem.  The  gills  are  composed  of  a 
double  membrane,  and  are  simple  or  branched. 

The  parts  of  an  Agaric  may  all  be  present  as  in  Amanitae,  or  severally 
absent  in  other  genera.  When  the  young  fungus  is  entirely  enclosed  in 
a  wrapper  or  case,  this  case  is  called  the  universal  veil.  When  this 
veil  is  ruptured  by  the  growth  of  the  stem,  that  part  which  remains 

i 


Agaricaceae 

attached  to  the  base  is  called  the  volva.  The  membrane  reaching  from 
the  stem  to  the  margin  of  the  cap  is  the  partial  veil ;  when  it  ruptures 
by  the  expansion  of  the  cap  and  all  or  a  portion  adheres  to  and  about 
the  stem  it  forms  the  annulus  or  ring.  In  some  species  one  or  both 
veils  may  be  present,  or  one  or  both  may  be  absent. 

The  stem  is  central  when  supporting  the  cap  at  its  center ;  excentric 
when  at  one  side  of  the  center;  lateral  when  it  supports  the  cap  from 
the  side.  If  the  stem  is  absent,  the  cap  is  said  to  be  sessile;  if  the  cap 
is  horizontal  and  supported  by  a  broad  base  it  is  dimidiate;  if  attached 
to  its  place  of  growth  by  its  back  it  is  rcsnpinate. 

Genera  are  largely  distinguished  by  the  manner  in  which  the  gills  are 
attached  to  the  stem.  These  distinguishing  attachments  are  shown  in 
the  plates  illustrating  genera  and  in  Plate  IV.  Gill-shapes. 

For  convenience  Agaricaceae  is  divided  by  the  color  of  the  spores  into 
five  series:  white,  pink,  brown,  purple,  black.  The  last  two,  owing 
to  the  similarity  of  hue,  are  by  some  writers  (preferably)  included  in 
the  black-spored  series.  Spore  color  is  a  valuable  assistant  in  deter- 
mining species. 

Series  I.     LEUCOSPOR-ffi.      Or. — white;  Gr. — seed. 

Spores  white,  rarely  dingy  or  inclining  to  reddish.  In  the  genus 
Russula  the  spores  of  some  species  are  white,  in  some  cream-color,  and 
in  several  pale  ochraceous.  Variations  from  pure  white  are  found  in 
the  spores  of  Tricholoma  personatum  and  a  few  other  species.  Gill- 
color  is  not  a  guide \ to  spore-color.  Purple,  yellow,  brown,  pinkish 
gills  may  produce  white  spores. 


AMANITA. 

(A  name  given  to  some  esculent  fungi  by  Galen,  perhaps  from 
Mount  Amanus.) 

Amanita.  Universal  veil  (volva),  which  is  at  first  continuous  (completely  en- 
veloping the  young  plant),  distinct  from  the  skin  of  the  cap.  Hymen- 
ophore  or  cap,  the  part  which  bears  the  spore-bearing  surface,  distinct 
and  easily  separable  from  the  stem,  which  leaves  a  socket  in  the  flesh 
when  it  is  removed.  All  growing  upon  the  ground.  Fries. 

Pileus  somewhat  fleshy,  convex  then  expanded.      Gills  free.     Uni- 
versal veil  at  first  enclosing  the  entire  plant,  which  as  it  grows  bursts 

2 


PLATE   IV. 


TABULAR  VIEW  or  THE  GENERA  OF  AGARICACEAE. 
LEUCOSPORAE   -RHODOSPORAE  -(JCHROSPORAE  -PORPHYROSPORAE-MELANOSPORAE. 


(WHITE) 


AMANITA 
AMANITOPSIS 


LEPIOTA 


(?INK)  (BROWN)  (PURPLE) 


VOLVARIA 


PLUTLUS 


ACETABUIARIA 


BOLBITIUS 


PAN/EOLU 

ANELLARIA 


ARMILLARIA 


PHOLIOTA 

CORTINARIUS 


ENTOLOMA 


HEBELOMA 

INOCYBE 


H  VGROPHORUS 
CLITOCYBE 

XEROTUS 
NVCTALIS 


CLITOPILUS 


LENZI  TES 
LENTINIUS 

PLEUROTU5 

PANUS 

TROGI A 
SCHIZOPHYLLUM 


CLAUDOPU5 


CREPIDOTU5 


COLLYBIA 
MARASM iu  s 

HELIOMYCES 


LEPTONfA 


NAUCORIA 


MYCENA 

MIATUIA 


NOLANEA 


PLUTEOLUS 

GALLRA 


OMPHALIA 


ECCILIA 


TUBARIA 


T.\r.n,AK  VIKW  t)F  THE  (;K.NEI:A  OF  AUAKICACEAB, 


LEUCOSPORAE. 


Hyatoklxo'cutS. 
Xeiotu/s . 
Nyctcolis. 


McM/ct/sm/i 


CHART  OF  GENBRA  IN  WHITE  SPORED  SERIES— I.EUCOSPORAE 


PLATE    III. 


A.  STERILE  CELLS. 

B.  BASIDIA. 

C.  CYSTIDIA. 


PROGRESSIVE  GROWTH  OF  AGARICS. 


FIGS. 


FIGS. 


A.  B.  C.  D.  E.    STAGES  OF  DEVELOPMENT  OF  AN  AGAEIC.  A.'    SPORE-PRINT. 

*.     GILLS  SHEDDING  SPOKES.  G.       SECTION  OF  GILL  MAGNIFIED. 


Leucosporee 


(Plate  VII.) 


LAMELLAE  OR  GILLS 


OR  RING  r 

STIPE 

OB 
6TEM 


VOtV«  OR  PAR 


MYCELIUM 


WHITE.  TREE  FROM   SUM 


0*    PARTIAL   VEIL 

ING  PENDULOUS. 


STEM 

'  HOLLOW 


(Of  UNIVERSAL  VEIL. > 


BULB 


SECTION  QF  AMANITA  PHALLOIDES. 


through,  generally  carrying  the  upper  part  on  the  pileus,  where  it  ap-  Amanita. 
pears  as  patches  or  scales,  the  remainder  enclosing  the  stem  at  the 
base  as  a  volva,  either  in  a  cup-like 
form,  closely  adherent  or  friable 
and  evanescent.  The  partial  veil  in 
youth  extends  from  the  stem  to  the 
margin  of  the  pileus,  enclosing  the 
gills  ;  when  ruptured  it  depends  from 
the  stem  as  a  ring.  Stem  furnished 
with  a  ring,  and  different  in  sub- 
stance from  that  of  the  pileus. 
Spores  white. 

On  the  ground. 

The  nearest  allied  genus,  Aman- 
itopsis,  is  separated  by  the  absence 
of  a  ring,  and  Lepiota  by  its  lack 
of  a  volva;  Volvaria,  Acetabula- 
ria  and  Chitonia,  possessing  volvas, 
are  distinguished  by  the  color  of 
their  spores. 

Amanitae  are  the  most  beautiful  and  conspicuous  of  fungi.  While 
there  are  comparatively  few  species  of  them,  the  individual  members 
are  plentiful  in  appearing  from  spring  until  the  coming  of  frost.  They 
are  solitary  or  gregarious  in  growth.  Occasionally  two  or  three  are 
found  together.  They  frequent  woods,  groves,  copse,  margins  of  woods 
and  land  recently  cleared  of  trees.  They  are  seldom  found  in  open 
fields.  A  careful  study  of  all  their  botanic  points  should  be  the  first 
duty  of  the  student  of  fungi.  Familiarity  with  every  characteristic  of 
the  Amanitae  will  insure  against  fatal  toadstool  poisoning,  for  it  is  the 
well-grounded  belief  of  those  who  have  made  thorough  investigation 
that,  with  the  exception  of  Helvella  esculenta,  now  Gyromitra  escu- 
lenta,  the  Amanitae,  alone,  contain  deadly  poisons. 

No  Amanita,  or  piece  of  one,  should  be  eaten  before  its  identity  is  fully 
established  and  its  qualities  ascertained  by  referring  to  the  descriptions 
Jierein  given  or  to  the  opinion  of  an  expert. 

They  are  the  aristocrats  of  fungi.  Their  noble  bearing,  their  beauty, 
their  power  for  good  or  evil,  and  above  all  their  perfect  structure,  have 
placed  them  first  in  their  realm  ;  and  they  proudly  bear  the  three  badges 

3 


Agaricaeeae 

Amanita.  of  their  clan  and  rank — the  volva  or  sheath  from  which  they  spring,  the 
kid-like  apron  encircling  their  waists,  and  patch-marks  of  their  high 
birth  upon  their  caps.  In  their  youth,  when  in  or  just  appearing  above 
the  ground,  they  are  completely  invested  with  a  membrane  or  universal 
veil,  which  is  distinct  and  free  from  the  skin  of  the  cap.  As  the  plant 
grows  the  membrane  stretches  and  finally  bursts.  It  sometimes  ruptures 
in  one  place  only  and  remains  about  the  base  of  the  stem  as  the  volva. 
When  such  a  rupture  occurs  the  caps  are  smooth.  In  most  species  por- 
tions of  the  volva  remain  upon  the  cap  as  scruff  or  warts — pointed  or 
rough — or  as  feathery  adornment ;  any  or  all  of  which  may  in  part  or 
whole  vanish  with  age  or  be  washed  away  by  rain. 

Extending  from  the  stem  to  the  margin  of  the  cap,  and  covering  the 
gills,  is  the  partial  veil — a  membranaceous,  white  texture  of  varying 
thickness.  As  the  cap  expands  this  veil  tears  from  it.  Portions  fre- 
quently remain  pendant  from  the  edges,  the  rest  contracts  to  the  stem 
as  a  ring,  or  droops  from  it  as  a  surrounding  ruffle,  or,  if  of  slight  con- 
sistency, may  be  fugacious  and  disappear,  but  marks,  remains,  or  the 
veil  itself  will  always  be  traceable  upon  the  stem. 

The  Amanitae  are  of  all  colors,  from  the  brilliant  orange  of  the  A. 
Caesarea,  the  rich  scarlet  or  crimson  of  the  A.  muscaria,  to  the  pure 
white  of  the  A.  phalloides  in  its  white  form. 

Their  stems  are  usually  long,  and  taper  from  the  base  toward  the  top. 
In  some  forms  the  base  is  distinctly  bulbous.  The  volva  at  the  base  is 
attached  to  the  stem  at  its  lower  extremity.  It  may  be  visible  as  a 
cup  or  ruptured  pouch  with  spreading  mouth,  or  it  may  be  of  such 
friable  texture  as  to  appear  like  mealy  scales.  Often,  when  the  plant 
is  pulled  from  the  ground,  the  volva  remains,  but  the  marks  of  its 
attachment  will  appear  and  should  be  carefully  looked  for.  Their  gills 
are  commonly  white,  are  of  equal  length  and  radiate  from  near  the 
stem,  which  they  do  not  reach,  to  the  circumference  of  the  cap.  They 
are  white,  unless  tinged  with  age,  excepting  upon  A.  Caesarea  and  A. 
Frostiana  where  they  are  yellow.*  Their  caps  are  umbrella-shaped,  flat 
or  convex.  Their  flesh  is  white,  does  not  change  color  when  bruised. 
They  are  scentless  and  almost  tasteless  when  fresh,  when  old  they  have 
a  slightly  offensive  odor  and  taste. 

The  family  is  not  a  large  one,  not  over  thirty  members  complete  its 
circle.      Every  feature,  every  part  of   its  several  members,   should  be 
thoroughly  known  before  the  intimacy  of  eating.      While  at  least  nine 
*  A.  Frostiana  is  not  always  yellow  gilled. 

4 


1'LATE  Vila. 


Photograph  by  C.  F.  Millspaugh.  Illinois. 

A  POISONOUS  PAIR. 

(Above}  AGARICUS  MORGANI. 
(Below}  AMANITA  MUSCARIA. 

The  upper  might  be  readily  mistaken  for  the  excellent  A,  procej-us,  the  lower  for  the  common 

mushroom  A,  cam  Centre, 


Leucosporse 

of  the  family  are  not  only  edible  but  delicate  and  sapid,  far  better  will  Amanita, 
it  be  to  leave  all  alone  than  to  make  a  mistake.      A  piece  of  a  poison- 
ous variety  the  size  of  a  dime  will  often  cause  serious  disorders  if  eaten. 
Many  persons  have  died  from  eating  very  small  quantities. 

Because  of  its  ovate  or  button-like  form  when  young,  it  is  frequently 
mistaken  for  the  common  field  mushroom;  even  experienced  mycoph- 
agists  have  been  deceived  by  it.  No  other  poison  has  so  puzzled 
scientists.  Other  varieties  of  fungi  may  interfere  with  digestion,  but  to 
the  Amanitae  all  deaths  from  toadstool-eating  are  traceable.  Its  subtle 
alkaloid  is  absorbed  by  the  system,  and  in  most  cases  lies  unsuspected 
for  from  six  to  twelve  hours,  then  its  iron  grip  holds  to  the  death.  For 
centuries  it  has  defied  all  remedies.  The  problem  has  been  partially 
solved.  At  Shenandoah,  Pa.,  August  31,  1885,  a  family  of  five  were 
poisoned  by  toadstools  ;  two  died,  three  lived.  Noting  the  sad  account 
in  the  newspapers,  I  at  once  wrote  to  Shenandoah  for  specimens  of  the 
fungi  eaten  and  a  description  of  the  treatment.  I  promptly  received 
from  Dr.  J.  E.  Schadle  (now  Professor  Schadle),  the  physician  in 
charge  of  the  cases,  a  box  containing  two  harmless  varieties  and  sev- 
eral fine  specimens  of  the  Amanita  phalloides,  all  of  which  were  gath- 
ered on  the  same  spot  and  by  the  same  person  who  gathered  the  toad- 
stools doing  the  poisoning.  They  told  the  tale.  A  remarkably  full 
and  interesting  account  of  the  cases  was  sent  to  me  by  Dr.  Schadle. 
After  exhausting  all  other  remedies,  and  after  two  of  the  five  had  died, 
he  administered  subcutaneously,  by  hypodermic  injection,  sulphate  of 
atropine — a  product  of  the  deadly  nightshade  analagous  to  belladonna 
—  rir  to  ^h  °*  a  grain  at  a  dose.  It  proved  to  be  an  antidote  and 
saved  the  lives  of  the  remaining  three. 

The  action  of  atropine  in  arresting  the  deadly  work  of  poisoning  by 
amanitine  had  been  foreshadowed  by  Schmidberg  and  Koppe,  and 
dwelt  upon  in  numerous  published  articles  by  Mr.  Julius  A.  Palmer,  to 
whom  more  than  any  other  is  due  the  branding  of  the  murderous  mem- 
bers of  the  Amanita  family ;  but  for  the  first  time  atropine  was  used 
upon  the  human  system  to  ward  their  blows. 

All  of  the  species  herein  described  are  found  in  the  United  States. 
Of  the  twenty-seven,  nine  are  edible,  nine  are  either  known  to  be  deadly 
or  are  so  closely  allied  to  deadly  species  that  it  is  unsafe  to  class  them 
as  other  than  poisonous  until  absolute  proof  is  obtained  of  their  harm- 


Agaricaceae 

Amanita.  lessncss.     The  remaining  nine  I  have  not  seen,  neither  is  there  any  rec- 
ord of  their  qualities. 

ANALYSIS  OF  SPECIES. 

*  Volva  opening  at  the  top  or  splitting  all  around,  leaving  a  mani- 
fest, free  border  at  the  base  of  the  stem.  Pileus  naked  or  with  broad 
membranace'ous  patches. 

**  Volva  splitting  regularly  all  round  the  lower  portion,  persistent, 
more  or  less  closely  embracing  the  base  of  the  bulbous  stem.  The 
upper  portion  being  adnate  to  the  pileus  appears  on  it  by  expansion  as 
scattered,  thick  warts. 

***  Volva  friable,  entirely  broken  up  into  wart-like  scales,  there- 
tore  not  persistent  at  the  base  of  the  stem,  which  is  at  first  globose-bulb- 
ous, becoming  less  so  as  it  lengthens.  Pileus  bearing  mealy  patches, 
soon  disappearing  or  with  small,  hard,  pointed  warts. 

****  Volva  rudimentary,  flocculose,  wholly  disappearing. 

*  Volva  bursting  at  top,  etc. 
A.  viro'sa  Fr. — virus,  poison. 

MINING  white.  Pileus  3-4  in.  broad,  fleshy,  at 
first  conical  and  acute,  afterwards  bell-shaped, 
then  expanded,  naked,  viscous  in  wet  weather, 
shining  when  dry,  margin  always  even,  but  most 
frequently  unequal,  turned  backward  and  inflexed. 
Flesh  white,  unchangeable.  Stem  4-6  in.  long, 

-wholly  stuffed,  almost  solid,  split  up  into  longitudinal  fibrils,  cylindrical 
from  the  bulbous  base,  often  compressed  at  the  apex,  torn  into  scales 
on  the  surface,  springing  from  a  lax,  wide,  thick  volva,  which  bursts 
open  at  the  apex.  Ring  close  to  the  top,  lax,  silky,  splitting  up  into 
floccose  fragments.  Gills  free,  thin,  narrow,  narrowing  at  both  ends, 
but  a  little  broader  in  front,  not  decurrent  on  the  stem  (although  the 
apex  of  the  stem  is  often  striate),  crowded,  somewhat  floccose  at  the 
edge.  Fries. 

The  pilei  are  most  frequently  oblique,  extended  and  lobed  on  one 
side  as  in  Hygrophorous  conicus,  scarcely  ever  depressed.  The  pileus 
rarely  becomes  yellow.  The  fragments  of  the  veil  often  adhere  to  the 
edge  of  the  gills. 

6 


PLATE  VI 


"}  -3 
>  > 

rl 


•ti 


13 

.,     > 
o-~jc 


OS  3'*-' 

'    '    Q 


Leucosporee 

In  woods.     Uncommon.     August  to  October.  Amanita. 

Fetid,  poisonous.     Stevenson. 

Spores    spheroid    or    subspheroid,    io-i6/x  K.;    8/*    W.    P.;    sub- 
globose,  8— io/x  Massee. 
POISONOUS. 
I  think  it  a  variety  of  A.  phalloides. 

A.  phalloi'des  Fr.  Gr. — phallus-like.  (Plate  VI,  figs.  2,  3,  p.  6.) 
Pileus  3-4  in.  broad,  commonly  shining  white  or  lemon-yellow,  fleshy, 
oval  bell-shaped,  then  expanded,  obtuse,  covered  over  with  a  pellicle 
which  is  viscid  (not  glutinous)  in  wet  weather,  naked,  rarely  sprinkled 
with  one  or  two  fragments  of  the  volva,  the  regular  margin  even.  Stem 
3—5  in.  long,  /£  in.  and  more  thick,  solid  downward,  bulbous,  hollow 
and  attenuated  upward,  rather  smooth,  white.  Ring  superior,  reflexed, 
slightly  striate,  swollen,  commonly  entire,  white.  Volva  more  or  less 
buried  in  the  soil,  bulbous,  semifree,  bursting  open  in  a  torn  manner. at 
the  apex,  with  a  lax  border.  GUIs  free,  ventricose,  4  lines  broad,  shin- 
ing white.  Fries. 

PileilS  very  variable  in  color,  commonly  white  or  yellow  (A.  citrina 
Pers.),  becoming  green  (A.  viridis  Pers.),  olivaceous  and  occasionally 
variegated  with  tiger  spots ;  in  late  autumn  with  the  disk  almost  black 
but  whitish  round  the  margin.  Odor  somewhat  fetid,  but  little  remark- 
able as  compared  with  that  of  A.  virosa. 

In  woods.      Frequent.      August  to  November. 

A  very  POISONOUS  and  dangerous  species.     Stevenson. 

Spores  8-9/A  W.  G.S.;  8-io/*  B.;  7-9^  diam.  Massee;  globose,  7.6x6/1 
Peck. 

Pileus  at  first  ovate  or  subcampanulate,  then  expanded,  slightly 
viscid  when  young  and  moist,  smooth  or  rarely  adorned  by  a  few 
fragments  of  the  volva,  even  on  the  margin,  white,  yellowish-brown  or 
blackish-brown.  Lamellae  rather  broad,  rounded  behind,  free,  white. 
Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  stuffed  or  hollow,  smooth  or 
slightly  floccose,  ringed,  bulbous,  the  ruptured  volva  either  appressed 
loose  or  merely  forming  a  narrow  margin  to  the  bulb. 

Plant  4-8  in.  high.     Pileus  2-5  in.  broad.     Stem  3-6  lines  thick. 

This  species  is  common  and  variable.  It  occurs  everywhere  in  woods 
and  assumes  such  different  colors  that  the  inexperienced  mycologist  is 
apt  to  mistake  its  different  forms  for  distinct  species.  With  us  the  pre- 

7 


Agaricaceae 

Amanita.  vailing  colors  of  the  pileus  are  white,  yellowish- white,  grayish-brown 
and  blackish-brown.  It  is  remarkable  that  the  form  with  a  greenish 
pileus,  which  seems  to  be  common  enough  in  Europe,  does  not  occur 
here.  Fries  also  mentions  a  form  having  a  white  pileus  with  a  black 
disk.  A  somewhat  similar  form  occurs  here,  in  which  the  pileus  is 
grayish-brown  with  a  black  disk.  Some  of  the  variously  colored  forms 
were  formerly  taken  to  be  distinct  species,  in  consequence  of  which 
several  synonyms  have  arisen,  of  which  A.  virescens  Fl.  Dan.,  Amanita 
viridis  Pers.,  and  Amanita  citrina  Pers.,  are  examples.  A.  verna 
Bull,  is  a  variety  having  a  white  pileus,  a  rather  thick  annulus  and  an 
appressed  volva.  It  sometimes  occurs  early  in  the  season;  hence  the 
specific  name.  It  also  occurs  late  in  the  season  and  runs  into  the  typical 
form  so  that  it  is  not  easy  to  keep  it  distinct.  The  flesh  and  the  lam- 
ellae are  white,  the  stem  is  white,  pallid  or  brownish,  and  the  annulus  is 
either  white  or  brownish.  The  bulb  is  generally  very  broad  and  abrupt 
or  depressed,  though  it  sometimes  is  small  and  approaches  an  ovate 
form.  The  large  bulbs  are  sometimes  split  externally  in  two  or  three 
places  and  are,  therefore,  two-  or  three-lobed.  In  such  cases  the  volva 
is  less  persistent  than  usual  and  its  free  portion  then  furnishes  merely  an 
acute  edge  or  narrow  margin  to  the  bulb.  Specimens  sometimes  occur 
in  which  the  margin  of  the  pileus  is  narrowly  adorned  with  a  slight 
woolly  hairiness,  but  usually  it  is  perfectly  smooth  and  even.  By  this 
character,  taken  in  connection  with  the  membranous  volva  and  bulbous 
base  of  the  stem,  the  species  is  readily  distinguished.  Sometimes  a 
strong  odor  is  emitted  by  it,  but  usually  the  odor  is  slight.  Authors 
generally  pronounce  this  a  poisonous  and  very  dangerous  species.  Its 
appearance  is  attractive,  but  its  use  as  food  is  to  be  avoided.  Peck, 
33d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Common  in  woods  and  recently  cleared  woodlands.  Frequent  over 
the  United  States.  June  to  frost. 

An  exceedingly  poisonous,  dangerous,  seductive  species,  responsible 
for  most  of  the  deaths  from  toadstool  eating ;  because  in  its  white  form 
it  is  mistaken  for  the  common  mushroom — Agaricus  campester.  The 
real  fault  is  with  the  collector,  who  should  never  eat  any  fungus  found 
in  the  woods,  believing  it  to  be  the  mushroom.  The  mushroom  does 
not  grow  in  the  woods.  Neither  has  it  white  gills,  nor  white  spores,  nor 
a  volva  at  the  base  of  the  stem  as  have  Amanitae. 

The  caps  of  A.  phalloides  vary  in  color — white,  oyster-color,  smoky 


Leucosporae 

brown.  The  color  of  the  commonest  form  is  from  white  to  a  light  hue  Amanita. 
of  greenish  yellow.  The  center  of  the  cap,  whatever  may  be  the  pre- 
vailing color,  is  usually  several  shades  darker.  In  shape,  the  cap 
changes  from  a  knob  in  youth,  through  the  shapes  of  expansion,  until 
it  becomes  fully  spread,  when  it  is  umbrella-shaped,  or  almost  flat. 
Some  forms  have  a  slightly  raised  portion  or  umbo  in  the  center  of  the 
cap.  The  gills  are  white,  of  good  width,  rounded  next  to  the  stem  and 
free  from  it. 

The  stem  conforms  in  color  to  the  cap,  but  in  lighter  shades.  White- 
capped  varieties  have  white  stems.  The  stem  has  a  sudden  broad,  dis- 
tinct bulb  at  the  base.  On  the  upper  side  of  the  bulb  there  is  usually  a 
margin  or  rim.  The  stem  tapers  more  or  less  toward  the  cap,  from 
which  it  is  easily  separable.  The  cup,  wrapper  or  volva  is  torn  or  split 
or  irregular  at  the  upper  part,  and  is  not  pressed  to  the  stem  as  in  some 
forms. 

Professor  Peck,  in  his  48th  Report,  gives  the  following  excellent  synop- 
sis of  differences  between  the  poisonous  Amanita  and  edible  fungi,  for 
which  it  could  only  by  great  stupidity  be  mistaken : 

Poison  amanita.  Gills  persistently  white.  Stem  equal  to  or  longer 
than  the  diameter  of  the  cap,  with  a  broad,  distinct  bulb  at  the  base. 

Common  musliroom.  Gills  pink,  becoming  blackish-brown.  Stem 
shorter  than  the  diameter  of  the  cap,  with  no  bulb  at  the  base. 

From  all  forms  of  the  edible  Sheathed  amanitopsis  the  Poison  ama- 
nita differs  in  its  distinctly  bulbous  stem,  in  having  a  collar  on  the  stem 
and  in  the  absence  of  striations  on  the  margin  of  the  cap. 

From  the  edible  Reddish  amanita,  it  is  easily  separated  by  the  entire 
absence  of  any  reddish  hues  or  stains  and  of  warts  upon  its  cap. 

From  the  Smooth  lepiota  its  distinct,  abrupt  and  marginal  bulb  at 
once  distinguishes  it. 

A.  ver'na  Bull. — vernus,  of  spring.  A  variety  of  A.  phalloides. 
POISONOUS.  White.  Pileus  ovate  then  expanded,  somewhat  de- 
pressed, viscid,  margin  orbicular,  even.  Stem  stuffed  then  hollow, 
equal,  floccose,  closely  sheathed  with  the  free  border  of  the  volva.  Ring 
reflexed,  swollen.  Gills  free.  Pileus  glabrous,  even  on  the  margin, 
white,  viscid  when  moist.  Gills  white.  Stem  ringed,  white,  floccose, 
stuffed  or  hollow,  closely  sheathed  at  the  base  by  the  remains  of  the 
membranous  volva,  bulbous.  Spores  globose,  8/*  broad  . 

9 


Agaricaceee 

Amanita.       In  woods.     Spring  and  summer. 

The  Vernal  Amanita  scarcely  differs  from  white  forms  of  the  A. 
phalloides  except  in  the  more  persistent  and  more  closely  sheathing 
remains  of  the  wrapper  at  the  base  of  the  stem.  It  is  probably  only  a 
variety  of  that  species,  as  most  mycologists  now  regard  it,  and  it  should 
be  considered  quite  as  dangerous.  I  have  not  found  it  earlier  than  in 
July,  although  in  Europe  it  is  said  to  appear  in  spring,  as  its  name  im- 
plies. Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Common  over  the  United  States.  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Penn- 
sylvania, May  to  November.  It  appeared  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  on  May 
28,  1899.  Mcllvaine. 

The  absence  of  a  ring  separates  white  forms  of  A.  volvata  and  A. 
vaginata. 

The  virulence  of  its  poison  is  the  same  as  that  of  A.  phalloides. 

A.  magnivela'ris  Pk. — magnus,  large;  velum,  veil.  Pileus  con- 
vex or  nearly  plane,  glabrous,  slightly  viscid  when  moist,  even  on  the 
margin,  white  or  yellowish-white.  Gills  close,  free,  white.  Stem  long, 
nearly  equal,  glabrous,  white,  furnished  with  a  large  membranous  white 
annulus,  sheathed  at  the  base  by  the  appressed  remains  of  the  mem- 
branous volva,  the  bulbous  base  tapering  downward  and  radicating. 
Spores  broadly  elliptical,  10x6-8;*. 

Pileus  3-5  in.  broad.     Stem  5-7  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Solitary  in  woods.     Port  Jefferson,  Suffolk  county.     July. 

The  species  resembles  Amanita  verna,  from  which  it  is  separated  by 
its  large  persistent  annulus,  the  elongated  downwardly  tapering  bulb  of 
its  stem,  and  especially  by  its  elliptical  spores.  Peck,  5oth  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species.  Its  resemblance  to  A.  verna  is  enough 
to  place  the  ban  upon  it  until  it  has  been  tested. 

A.  map'pa  Fr. — mappa,  a  napkin.  From  the  volva.  Pileus  2-3  in. 
broad,  commonly  white  or  becoming  yellow,  slightly  fleshy,  convexo- 
plane,  obtuse  or  depressed,  orbicular,  dry,  margin  for  the  most  part 
even.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick,  stuffed  then  hollow,  almost 
equal  above  the  bulb,  rather  smooth,  white.  Ring  superior,  soft,  lax, 
here  and  there  torn.  Volva  regularly  circularly  split,  somewhat  ob- 
literated;  the  globoso-bulbous  base  united  with  the  stem,  with  an  acute 

10 


Leucosporae 

and  distant  margin;  the  portion  covering  the  pileus  divided  into  broad,  Amanita. 
irregular,  somewhat  separating  scales.      Gills  annexed,  crowded,  nar- 
row, shining,  white.     Fries. 

Odor  stinking.  The  color  is  that  of  A.  phalloides,  with  which  A. 
virosa  exactly  agrees,  more  rarely  straw  color,  lemon-yellow,  becoming 
green. 

In  mixed  woods.     Frequent.     Stevenson. 

Spores  spheroid,  J-iopK.;  8-9x6-8)".  B.;  subglobose,  7~9/x  diame- 
ter Massee. 

New  York  woods  and  fields,  common,  September  to  October,  Peck, 
22d  Rep. ;  North  Carolina,  Curtis;  New  England,  Frost;  Minnesota, 
Johnson;  Ohio,  Morgan;  District  Columbia,  Miss  Taylor. 

POISONOUS. 

Probably  but  a  variety  of  A.  phalloides. 

A.  spre'ta  Pk. — spreta,  hated.  (Plate  VI,  fig.  I,  p.  6.)  Pileus 
subovate,  then  convex  or  expanded,  smooth  or  adorned  with  a  few 
fragments  of  the  volva,  substriate  on  the  margin,  whitish  or  pale-brown. 
Gills  close,  reaching  the  stem,  white.  Stem  equal,  smooth,  annulate, 
stuffed  or  hollow,  whitish,  finely  striate  at  the  top  from  the  decurrent 
lines  of  the  lamellae,  not  bulbous  at  the  base,  but  the  volva  rather  large, 
loose,  subochreate.  Spores  elliptical,  generally  with  a  single  large 
nucleus,  10-13x6—8^. 

Plant  4-6  in.  high.     PileilS  3-5  in.  broad.      Stem  4-6  lines  thick. 

Ground  in  open  places.  Sandlake  and  Gansevoort.  August.  Peck, 
32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

This  is  a  dangerous  species,  because  containing  a  deadly  poison  and 
resembling  the  most  common  forms  of  Amanitopsis,  therefore  likely  to 
be  mistaken  for  them.  Specimens  sent  by  me  to  Professor  Peck  were 
identified  as  his  species.  I  add  my  own  description. 

Pileus  oval,  broadly  umbonate,  date-brown  toward  and  on  umbo, 
soft,  dry,  smooth,  more  or  less  sulcate  on  edge.  Flesh  white,  thin, 
except  at  center.  Stem  tapers  rapidly  above  ring  and  at  base,  white- 
reddish-brown  toward  middle,  narrows  toward  volva  from  which  it  is 
almost  free  at  the  base,  hollow,  furfuraceous  above  ring.  Gills  white, 
crowded,  free.  Ring  white,  thin,  persistent,  but  at  times  hard  to  dis- 
tinguish because  clinging  to  stem.  Volva  free,  fitting  close,  upper 

II 


Agaricacese 

Amanita.  margin  thin,  lower  part  quite  thick,  making  stem  appear  bulbous,  which 
it  is  not.  White  forms  occur. 

Not  as  virulent  as  A.  phalloides,  but  like  it  in  its  POISONOUS  ef- 
fects. It  differs  from  Amanitopsis  in  having  a  ring. 

Grows  in  woods  and  on  wood-margins. 

Angora  woods,  West  Philadelphia.  On  ground  in  mixed  woods, 
open  and  grassy  places  in  wood  and  wood-margins.  August  to  Sep- 
tember. Mcllvaine. 

A.  recuti'ta  Fr. — having  a  fresh  or  new  skin.  Pileus  convex  then 
plane,  dry,  smooth,  frequently  bearing  fragments  of  the  volva,  margin 
nearly  even.  Stem  stuffed  then  hollow,  attenuated,  silky,  volva  cir- 
cumscissile,  becoming  obliterated,  margin  closely  pressed  to  stem ;  ring 
distant,  white.  Gills  striate-decurrent. 

In  pine  woods.    Common. 

No  report  upon  quality. 

A.  Csesa'rea  Scop. — king-like.  (Called  by  the  Greeks  Cibus  Deorum, 
food  of  the  gods.)  CAUTION.  Pileus  3-8  in.  across,  hemispherical, 
then  expanded,  free  from  warts,  distinctly  striate  on  the  margin,  red  or 
orange  becoming  yellow.  Gills  free,  yellow.  Stem  4-6  in.  long,  up 
to  %  in.  thick  at  base,  slightly  tapering  upward,  yellowish,  flocculose, 
stuffed  with  white  fibrils  or  hollow,  with  a  conspicuous  yellowish  ring 
or  veil.  Volva  white,  large,  distinct  and  membranous.  Spores  ellip- 
tical, 8-io/u.  Peck. 

Open  woods,  under  pines  on  lawns.     July  to  October. 

Reported  from  North  Carolina,  South  Carolina,  Massachusetts,  Mary- 
land, New  Jersey,  Ohio,  Alabama,  Louisiana,  Pennsylvania,  New  York. 
Peck,  Rep.  23,  32,  33,  48. 

This  emperor  of  fungi  is  the  most  showy  of  its  race.  It  grows  to  10 
in.  in  height.  The  cap  reaches  8  in.  in  diameter  and  the  stem  over  i  % 
in.  in  thickness.  In  very  much  smaller  specimens  about  the  same  pro- 
portions occur.  The  cap  is  at  first  ovate,  then  hemispherical,  then  ex- 
panded. It  has  no  warts  or  scales  upon  it.  The  margin  is  distinctly 
striate.  The  flesh  is  white,  yellow  or  reddish  under  the  skin;  next  to 
the  gills  it  is  usually  yellow. 

The  stem  tapers  upward  from  the  socket  at  its  base.  It  is  yellowish 
and  covered  with  loose  fibrils  of  darker  hue.  The  ring  is  white,  but 

12 


Iieucosporse 

frequently  tinged  with  yellow.  In  taste  and  smell  it  is  mild.  Open  Amanita. 
woods  is  its  favorite  habitat,  yet  it  is  found  growing  luxuriantly  under 
pines,  maples,  elms,  on  lawns.  It  is  not  often  found,  but  when  it  is,  it 
is  solitary,  or  in  groups  or  rings.  In  the  latitude  of  Philadelphia  it  is 
found  from  July  until  October  ist.  Further  south  its  stay  conforms  to 
temperature,  and  it  is  more  frequent.  There  is  no  doubt  of  its  rare 
edibility  abroad,  and  of  its  being  eaten  in  America. 

A  specimen  believed  to  be  it  should  never  be  eaten  until  carefully 
distinguished  from  A.  muscaria  and  A.  Frostiana,  which  have  warts  or 
scales  on  the  cap  (which  sometimes  are  not  discernible  after  rain), 
white  gills,  and  a  volva  which  soon  breaks  up  into  fragments  or  scabs. 

Appearing  like  a  small  form  of  A.  muscaria,  to  which  it  was  formerly 
referred,  is  A.  Frostiana  Pk.  (Frost's  Agaric).  It  closely  resembles 
small  A.  Caesarea,  especially  in  the  yellow  tinge  of  stem,  ring  and  gills. 
The  volva  and  ring  (persistent  in  A.  Caesarea)  soon  disappear,  but  are 
traceable  by  fluffy  fragments,  or  yellow  stains.  It  is  extremely  poison- 
ous. 

The  differences,  concisely,  are  these :  A.  Caesarea  (Orange  Amanita). 
Cap  smooth,  though  occasionally  with  a  few  fragments  of  the  volva  as 
patches  upon  it.  Gills  yellow.  Stem  yellow.  Volva  usually  persistent, 
sometimes  breaking  up  into  soft,  fluffy  masses. 

A.  muscaria  (Fly  Amanita).  Poisonous.  Cap  covered  with  remains 
of  the  volva  as  scales  or  wart-like  patches.  Gills  white.  Stem  white  or 
light-yellow.  Volva  not  persistent,  breaking  up  into  fluffy  fragments 
or  scales. 

A.  Frostiana.  Poisonous.  Smaller  and  more  delicate  than  the  two 
preceding.  Cap  smooth  or  with  yellow  scales  or  wart-like  patches. 
Gills  yellow  or  tinged  on  edge  with  yellow.  Stem  white  or  yellow, 
the  ring  evanescent,  but  always  leaving  a  yellow  mark  on  stem.  Volva 
yellow,  breaking  up  into  yellow  fluffy  fragments. 

Far  better  for  the  amateur  to  let  the  A.  Caesarea,  and  anything  re- 
sembling it,  respectfully  alone. 

New  York,  Gansvoort.  Circle  forty  feet  in  diameter.  Peck,  32d 
Rep.  ;  Maryland.  There  is  not  a  doubt  that  this  fungus  can  be  eaten 
with  impunity,  Banning;  Alabama,  abundant.  Edible.  Alabama  Bull. 
No.  80. 

Roques  and  Cordier,  French  writers,  regard  it  as  the  finest  and  most 
delicate  of  fungi,  the  perfume  and  taste  being  exquisite. 

13 


Agaricaceae 

Amanita.  The  writer  has  not  had  opportunity  to  eat  A.  Caesarea.  If  such 
should  occur  he  would  go  about  it  very  cautiously.  No  suspicion 
attaches  to  it  abroad,  but  evidence  is  accumulating  in  the  hands  of  the 
writer  (not  yet  convincing)  that  either  locality  may  render  it  poisonous 
or  that  A.  muscaria  varies  so  much  in  appearance  as  to  deceive  even 
the  expert  into  mistaking  it  for  A.  Caesarea.  It  is  possible  that  A. 
muscaria  is,  at  times,  in  certain  localities,  harmless;  but  no  such  ex- 
ception as  this  is  noted  in  the  entire  fungoid  realm.  It  is  not  so  common 
that  collectors  should  mourn  its  waste.  It  is  better,  far,  to  let  it  alone. 

**Volva  splitting  regularly  all  around;  pileus  bearing  thick  warts,  etc. 

A.  musca'l'ia  Linn. — nnisca,  a  fly.  (Plate  VI,  fig.  4,  p.  6.  Plate 
VIII.)  POISONOUS.  Pileus  4  in.  and  more  broad,  normally  at  first 
blood-red,  soon  orange  and  becoming  pale,  whitening  when  old,  globose, 
then  convex  and  at  length  flattened,  covered  with  a  pellicle  which  is  at 
first  thick,  and  in  wet  weather  glutinous,  but  which  gradually  disappears, 
and  sprinkled  with  thick,  angular,  separating  fragments  of  the  volva ; 
margin  when  full-grown  slightly  striate.  Flesh  not  compact,  white, 
yellow  under  the  pellicle.  Stem  as  much  as  a  span  long,  shining  white, 
firm,  torn  into  scales,  at  first  stuffed  with  lax,  spider-web  fibrils,  soon 
hollow\  the  adnate  base  of  the  volva  forms  an  ovate  bulb,  which  is  mar- 
ginate  with  concentric  scales.  Ring  very  soft,  torn,  even,  inserted  at 
the  apex  of  the  stem,  which  is  often  dilated.  Gills  free,  but  reaching 
the  stem,  decurrent  in  the  form  of  lines,  crowded,  broader  in  front, 
white,  rarely  becoming  yellow. 

Var.  rega'lis,  twice  as  large.  Stem  stuffed,  solid  when  young,  as 
much  as  1—2  in.  thick,  becoming  light-yellow  within;  the  volva  ter- 
minates in  8— 10  concentric  squamoso-reflexed  rows  of  scales.  Pileus 
very  glutinous,  bay-brown  or  the  color  of  cooked  liver.  Gills  yel- 
lowish. 

Var.  formosa,  soft,  fragile.  Pileus  at  first  lemon-yellow,  with  mealy, 
lax,  yellowish,  easily-separating  warts,  often  naked.  Gills  often  becom- 
ing yellow.  A.  formosa,  with  the  warts  rubbed  off. 

Var.  umbri'na,  thinner  and  more  slender.  Stem  hollow,  often  twist- 
ed,  bulb  narrowed.  PileilS  at  first  umber,  then  livid,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  disk,  which  is  dingy-brown.  Gills  at  length  remote.  Stev. 

PileilS  at  first  ovate  or  hemispherical,  then  broadly  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  slightly  viscid  when  young  and  moist,  rough  with  numerous 


PLATE  VIII. 


z 

H 

5= 

C 

n 

2 
> 


Leucosporse 

whitish  or  yellowish  warts,  rarely  smooth,  narrowly  and  slightly  striate  Amanita. 
on  the  margin,  white,  yellow  or  orange-red.  Gills  white.  Stem  equal 
or  slightly  tapering  upward,  stuffed  with  webby  fibrils  or  hollow,  bear- 
ing a  white  ring  above,  ovate-bulbous  at  the  base,  white  or  yellowish; 
the  volva  usually  breaking  up  into  scales  and  adhering  to  the  upper  part 
of  the  bulb  and  the  base  of  the  stem.  Spores  elliptical,  8-iox6-8/A. 

Plant  5-8  in.  high.  PileuS  3-6  in.  broad.  Peck,  33d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

A  white  variety,  with  the  pileus  thickly  studded  with  sharp  warts, 
occurs  in  Albany  Rural  Cemetery.  July.  Peck,  24th  Rep. 

Var.  atba  Pk.  It  also  occurs  on  Long  Island  in  two  forms,  the 
normal  one  and  a  smaller  one,  in  which  the  warts  of  the  pileus  are 
evanescent  or  wanting.  Not  unfrequently  it  makes  a  close  approach  to 
white  forms  of  A.  pantherina,  in  having  the  upper  part  of  the  bulb  uni- 
formly margined  by  the  remains  of  the  definitely  circumscissile  volva, 
but  this  margin  is  more  acute  than  in  that  species.  Peck,  46th  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  spheroid-ellipsoid,  10-12x8-9^  K.;  6x9/^1  W.  G.  S.;  ellip- 
tical, 8-10x6-8/1  Peck. 

"At  Cincinnati,  yellow  A.  muscaria  are  all  we  find."     Lloyd. 

Reported  from  most  of  the  states.  At  Mt.  Gretna  I  found  it  in  great 
quantity,  and  frequently  three  or  four  tightly  crowded  together.  Many 
pounds  of  it  were  sent  to  Professor  Chittenden,  Sheffield  Laboratory, 
Yale  University.  Near  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  large  patches  annually 
grow  under  pines,  gorgeous  in  their  rich  orange-red  caps,  usually  scaly, 
with  at  times  lemon-yellow  in  the  same  clusters,  smooth  as  A.  Caesarea. 
It  grows  from  July  until  after  hard  frosts. 

It  is  undoubtedly  poisonous  to  a  high  degree.  Its  juices  in  minute 
quantity,  carefully  and  scientifically  injected  into  the  circulation  of  ether- 
ized cats,  kill  in  less  than  a  minute.  A  raw  piece  of  the  cap,  the  size 
of  a  hazel  nut,  affects  me  sensibly  if  taken  on  an  empty  stomach.  Diz- 
ziness, nausea,  exaggeration  of  vision  and  pallor  result  from  it.  The 
pulse  quickens  and  is  full,  and  a  dreaded  pressure  affects  the  breathing. 
I  have  not  noticed  change  in  the  pupil  of  the  eye.  Nicotine  from 
smoking  a  pipe  with  me  abates  the  symptoms,  which  entirely  dis- 
appear in  two  hours,  leaving  as  reminiscence  a  torturing,  dull,  skull- 
pervading  headache.  If,  as  is  asserted  on  good  authority,  the  Siberians 
use  it  as  an  intoxicant,  they  certainly  suffer  the  accustomed  penalty. 

15 


Agaricaceae 

Amanita.  It  is  possible  that  persons  may,  in  a  degree,  become  immune  to  its  poi- 
son, as  they  do  to  arsenic,  strychnia,  opium,  nicotine,  or  it  may  be  that 
a  portion  of  the  poison  is  extracted  by  boiling.  It  is,  however,  ex- 
tremely dangerous  to  rely  upon  extracting  by  any  means  the  poison  of 
the  Amanita,  and  to  eat  the  residue.  Acetic  acid  or  vinegar  does  not 
destroy  the  poison ;  it  dissolves  it  to  an  extent  and  extracts  it,  and  be- 
comes as  poisonous  as  the  plant  itself.  There  is  no  means  of  telling 
how  much  of  the  poison  remains  in  the  plant  after  such  treatment.  The 
safe  plan  is  to  eat,  only,  of  toadstools  which  do  not  contain  any  poison 
to  extract. 

One  redeeming  virtue,  alone,  rests  with  A.  muscaria — it  kills  flies. 

A.  Frost'iana  Pk.— in  honor  of  Charles  C.  Frost.  POISONOUS. 
(Plate  VI,  fig.  5,  p.  6.)  Pileus  convex  or  expanded,  bright-orange  or 
yellow,  warty,  sometimes  nearly  or  quite  smooth,  striate  on  the  margin. 
Gills  free,  white  or  slightly  tinged  with  yellow.  Stem  white  or  yellow, 
stuffed,  bearing  a  slight,  sometimes  evanescent  ring,  bulbous  at  the  base, 
the  bulb  slightly  margined  by  the  volva.  Spores  globose,  8-io/x.  in 
diameter. 

Plant  2-3  in.  high.  Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.  Stem  about  2  lines 
thick.  June  to  October. 

This  appears  like  a  very  small  form  of  the  Fly  Agaric,  to  which,  as 
var.  minor,  it  was  formerly  referred.  The  only  decided  characters  for 
distinguishing  it  are  its  small  size  and  globose  spores.  Our  plant  some- 
times grows  in  company  with  A.  muscaria,  but  it  seems  to  prefer  more 
dense  woods,  especially  mixed  or  hemlock  woods.  It  is  generally  very 
regular  and  beautiful  and  has  the  stem  quite  often  of  a  yellow  color,  and 
the  bulb  margined  above  with  a  collar-like  ring.  Peck,  33d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina,  Mcllvaine. 

A.  Frostiana  is  found  well  over  the  land.  It  is  frequent  in  shady 
woods  and  seems  to  favor  ground  under  the  prevailing  tree — oak,  chest- 
nut, pine,  hemlock,  whichever  it  may  be.  From  the  many  hundreds 
I  have  seen,  I  think  it  more  likely  to  be  mistaken  by  the  novice  for  A. 
Caesarea  than  A.  muscaria,  because  of  its  often  yellow  gills  and  stem. 
It  is  much  smaller  and  thinner  than  either.  In  the  states  I  have  found 
it,  it  is  darker  than  described,  being  a  rich  reddish-orange  or  scarlet. 
The  partial  veil  or  ring  is  very  evanescent  but  often  found  upon  the 

16 


Leucosporae 

stem  as  a  yellow,  floccose  remnant.     The  stain  of  the   ring  is  always  Amanita. 
noticeable.      The  volva  is  seldom  found  entire.      It,  too,  is  evanescent, 
but,  like  the  veil,  is  found  yellow  and  fluffy,  adhering  to  the  fingers 
when  touched. 

It  is  probable  that  its  highly  colored  cap  has  caused  it  to  be  gathered 
by  the  careless  collector  of  bright-capped  Russulae,  and  that  thus  R. 
emetica  got  its  bad  name.  Examine  carefully  any  toadstool  resembling 
it.  The  Russulae  have  neither  ring  nor  volva. 

A.  excel'sa  Fr. — excelsus,  tall.  POISONOUS.  Pileus  4-5  in.  broad, 
brownish-gray,  darker  in  the  center,  fleshy,  soft,  globose,  then  plane, 
pellicle  thin,  but  viscous,  and  in  reality  separable  in  wet  weather,  then 
the  surface  is  often  wrinkled-papillose,  or  in  a  peculiar  manner  hollowed 
and  pitted,  sprinkled  with  angular,  unequal,  whitish-gray,  easily  sep- 
arating warts,  the  remains  of  the  friable  volva;  margin  at  first  even, 
but  when  properly /developed  manifestly  striate,  even  furrowed.  Flesh 
soft,  white  throughout,  unchangeable.  Stem  4-6  in.  long,  I  in.  thick, 
at  first  stuffed,  almost  solid,  but  at  length  hollow,  globose-depressed  at 
the  base,  attenuated  upward  from  the  bulb,  covered,  sometimes  as  far 
as  the  ring,  sometimes  only  on  the  lower  part  \vlthdense,  squarrose,  con- 
centric scales  (from  the  epidermis  of  the  stem  being  torn),  striate  at  the 
apex.  Ring  superior,  large,  separating-free  or  at  length  torn.  Gills 
quite  free,  rounded  (not  decurrent  on  the  stem  in  the  form  of  lines), 
very  ventricose,  K  in.  and  more  broad,  shining  white. 

The  bulb  when  young  is  somewhat  marginate,  but  by  no  means  sep- 
arable, the  margin  proper,  like  that  of  A.  muscaria,  is  marked  with 
scales,  buried  in  the  soil,  somewhat  rooting,  beneath  the  margin  marked 
here  and  there  with  a  concentric  furrow.  The  shorter  gills  intermixed 
are  more  numerous  than  is  usual  among  Amanitae.  There  is  a  smaller 
variety,  with  the  margin  more  frequently  striate  and  the  stem  stuffed, 
then  hollow.  Fries. 

Solitary,  in  woods,  chiefly  under  beech.     Stevenson. 

Spores  6x9/A  W.  G.  S.;  8-9x5-6^  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  South  Carolina,  Ravenel;  Cali- 
fornia, Harkness  and  Moore;  Massachusetts,  Frost,  Andrews;  Minne- 
sota, Johnson;  Rhode  Island,  Olney. 

\.  pantheri'na  De  C. — spotted  like  a  panther.      Doubtful.     Pileus 

2  17 


Agaricaceae 

Amanita.  commonly  olivaceous-umber  when  young,  fleshy,  convex  then  flattened 
or  somewhat  depressed,  with  a  sticky  pellicle,  which  is  at  first  thick  and 
olivaceous  dingy-brown,  then  thinned  out,  almost  disappearing  and 
Jivid,  the  disk  only  becoming  brownish;  margin  evidently  striate;  the 
fragments  of  the  volva  divided  into  small,  equal,  white,  regularly 
arranged,  moderately  persistent  warts.  Flesh  wholly  'white,  never 
yellow  beneath  the  pellicle.  Stem  3-4  in.  long,  >2  in.  thick,  at  first 
stuffed  then  hollow  with  spider-web  fibrils  within,  equal  or  attenuated 
upward,  slightly  firm  and  sometimes  scaly  downward,  greaved  at  the 
base  by  the  separable  volva  which  has  an  entire  and  obtuse  margin. 
Ring  more  or  less  distant,  adhering  obliquely,  white,  rarely  superior. 
Gills  free,  reaching  the  stem,  broader  in  front,  3-4  lines  broad,  shining 
white. 

It  is  readily  distinguished  from  A.  muscaria,  var.  umbrina,  by  the 
white  flesh  never  becoming  yellow  beneath  the  pellicle.  Variable  in 
size  and  color,  which,  however,  is  never  red  or  yellow,  and  in  the  posi- 
tion of  the  ring. 

In  woods  and  pastures.      Stevenson. 

Spores  7-8x4-5/4  A'./  6-zo//,  B.;  8x4^  W.  G.  S.;  7.6x4.8^  Morgan. 

Not  poisonous,  W.  G.  S.;  not  edible,  Roze;  poisonous,  Leuba. 

North  Carolina,  Pennsylvania,  Ohio,  California,  Wisconsin,  Minne- 
sota, Iowa,  New  York.  Peck. 

A.  Ravenel'ii  B.  and  C. — in  honor  of  Henry  W.  Ravenel.  PileilS 
4  in.  across,  convex,  broken  up  into  distinct  areas,  each  of  which  is 
raised  into  an  acute,  rigid,  pyramidal  wart.  Stem  3  in.  high,  bulbous. 
Volva  thick,  warty,  somewhat  lobed.  King  deflexed. 

South  Carolina,  June,  H .  W.  Ravenel;  a  very  fine  species  allied  to 
A.  strobiliformis,  Vitt.  Ann.  and  Mag.  Nat.  Hist.,  1859;  Alabama, 
Atkinson  (LI.  Volvae). 

Properties  not  stated. 

A.  rilSSllloi'des  Pk. — resembling  a  Russula.  PileilS  at  first  ovate, 
then  expanded  or  convex,  rough  with  a  few  superficial  warts,  or  entirely 
smooth,  viscid  when  moist,  widely  striate-tuberculate  on  the  margin, 
pale-yellow  or  straw  color.  Gills  close,  free,  narrowed  toward  the 
stem,  white.  Stem  firm,  smooth,  stuffed,  annulate,  equal  or  slightly 
tapering  upward,  bulbous;  annulus  thin,  soon  vanishing.  Volva  fra- 
gile, subappressed.  Spores  broadly  elliptical,  iox8/A. 

18 


PLATK  IX. 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Briscoe  —  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


FIG. 

1.  AMANITA  CHLORINOSMA, 

2.  AMANITA  BUBESCENS  AND  SECTION, 


PAGE.       FIG. 

25  3.    AMANITA  STROBILIFORMIS. 

21 


PAGE, 
19 


Leucosporae 

Plant  2-3  in.  high.     Pilens  1.5-2  in.  broad.     Stem  3-5  lines  thick.  Amanita. 
Grassy  ground  in  open  woods.      Greenbush.     June. 

This  species  is  remarkable  for  the  thin  striate-tuberculate  margin  of 
the  pileus,  which  causes  it  to  resemble  some  species  of  Russula.  Peck, 
25th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Qualities  not  stated. 

Massachusetts,  Francis. 

A.  Strobilil'or'mis  Vitt. — strobilis,  a  pine-cone,  from  the  shape  of 
the  warts.  (Plate  IX,  fig.  3,  p.  18.)  Cap  3-10  in.  across,  convex 
or  nearly  plane,  white  or  cinereous,  sometimes  yellow  on  the  disk, 
rough  with  angular,  mostly  persistent  warts  which  sometimes  fall  away 
and  leave  the  pileus  nearly  smooth ;  generally  whitish,  sometimes  tinged 
with  brown  ;  the  margin  even  and  extending  a  little  beyond  the  lamellae. 
Gills  free,  rounded  behind.  Veil  large  and  portions  sometimes  adhere 
to  margin  of  cap.  Stem  3-8  in.  long,  up  to  1*4  in.  thick,  equal  or 
slightly  tapering  upward,  solid,  floccose-scaly,  white,  bulbous,  the  bulb 
very  large,  sometimes  weighing  a  pound,  margined  above  and  furnished 
with  one  or  two  concentric  furrows,  somewhat  pointed  below,  firmly 
and  deeply  imbedded  in  the  earth,  floccose-mealy  when  young. 

Spores  ellipcical,   13-15x8-10^1  Peck. 

Open  woods  and  borders.      June  to  October. 

Edible.      W.  G.  Smith,  Curtis,  Peck. 

This  is  among  the  best  of  species.  Its  size,  solidity,  flavor  are 
marked.  I  have  found  specimens  weighing  a  pound  and  a  half.  It 
grows  singly,  but  when  one  is  found  several  are  apt  to  be  neighbors. 
When  young,  the  cap  is  but  a  small  knob  upon  a  beet  or  top-shaped 
base,  which  is  largely  under  ground.  It  cuts  like  a  soft  turnip,  and  has 
a  strong,  pungent,  unmistakable  odor,  like  chloride  of  lime,  which  en- 
tirely disappears  in  cooking.  As  the  plant  develops  the  bulb  decreases 
in  size.  On  all  the  many  specimens  the  author  has  seen  and  eaten,  the 
scabs  are  light  brown  and  reddish-brown. 

A.  SOlita'ria  Bull. — growing  alone.  Pileus  convex  or  plane,  warty, 
white  or  whitish,  even  on  the  margin.  Gills  reaching  the  stem,  white 
or  slightly  tinged  with  cream  color.  Stem  at  first  mealy  or  scaly,  equal, 
solid,  white,  bulbous,  the  bulb  scaly  or  mealy,  narrowed  below  into  a 
root-like  prolongation.  Ring  lacerated,  often  adhering  in  fragments  to 
the  margin  of  the  pileus  and  gills.  Spores  elliptical-oblong,  8-13x6.5^. 

19 


Agaricaceae 

Amanita.  Plant  4-8  in.  high.  Pileus  3 -6  in.  broad.  Stem  4-6  lines  thick. 
Peck,  33d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Solitary  in  woods  and  open  places.     July  to  October. 

Georgia,  H.  N.  Starnes;  Indiana,  H ' .  I .  Miller;  West  Virginia,  New 
Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.     Curtis,  H.  N.  Statues,  Philadelphia  Myc.  Club. 

In  many  localities  I  find  it  quite  plentiful,  and  it  is  so  reported  from 
Georgia.  Southern  and  middle  New  Jersey  woods  abound  with  it,  and 
at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  it  is  always  present  in  its  growing  months. 

The  cap  is  sometimes  tinged  with  brown  as  are  the  angular,  erect 
warts  which  are  generally  numerous,  but  often  falling  off  or  few  and 
scattered.  The  flesh  is  white  and  smells  like  chloride  of  lime,  but  not 
nearly  so  strong  as  A.  strobiliformis.  The  volva  is  broken  up  into 
floccose  scales  which  cling  to  bulb  and  lower  part  of  stem.  These  scales 
may  be  white  and  mealy  or  brownish.  The  entire  fungus  has  a  fluffy 
exterior,  which  is  easily  removed  by  rubbing.  The  annulus  is  torn,  a 
part  often  adhering  to  the  margin  of  the  pileus  and  the  gills.  This  and 
the  long,  tapering,  rooting  bulb  are  marked  characteristics.  The  bulb 
is  brittle.  It  is  difficult  to  get  the  fungus  from  the  ground  entire. 

Stem  and  cap  are  juicy,  tender,  mild  in  flavor,  wholesome.  It  is  not 
equal  in  flavor  to  A.  rubescens,  but  is  more  delicate. 

By  many  its  properties  have  been  stated  as  poisonous,  doubtful. 
Quantities  of  it  have  been  eaten  by  myself  and  friends.  Hypodermic 
injection  of  its  juices  into  the  blood  circulation  of  live  animals  prove  it 
perfectly  harmless. 

A.  can'dida  Pk. — shining  white.  PileilS  thin,  broadly  convex  or 
nearly  plane,  verrucose  with  numerous  small,  erect,  angular  or  pyramidal, 
easily  separable  warts,  often  becoming  smooth  with  age,  white,  even  on 
the  margin.  Flesh  white.  Gills  rather  narrow,  close,  reaching  to  the 
stem,  white.  Stem  solid,  bulbous,  floccose-squamose,  white,  the  annulus 
attached  to  the  top  of  the  stem,  becoming  pendent  and  often  disappear- 
ing with  age,  floccose-squamose  on  the  lower  surface,  striate  on  the 
upper,  the  bulb  rather  large,  ovate,  squamose,  not  margined,  tapering 
above  into  the  stem  and  rounded  or  merely  abruptly  pointed  below. 
Spores  elliptical,  10-13x8^. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.  Stem  2.5-5  m-  long,  5-8  lines  thick,  the 
bulb  1-1.5  m-  thick  in  the  dried  specimens. 

20 


lieucosporae 

This  is  a  fine  large  species  related  to  A.  solitaria,  but  differing  from  Amanita. 
it  in  the  character  of  its  bulb  and  of  its  annulus.  The  bulb  is  not  mar- 
ginate  nor  imbricately  squamose.  Its  scales  are  small  and  numerous. 
Nor  is  it  clearly  radicating,  though  sometimes  it  has  a  slight  abrupt 
point  or  myceloid-agglomerated  mass  of  soil  at  its  base.  The  veil  or 
annulus  is  large  and  well  developed,  but  it  is  apt  to  fall  away  and  dis- 
appear with  age.  Its  attachment  at  the  very  top  of  the  stem  brings  it 
closely  in  contact  with  the  lamellae  of  the  young  plant  and  the  striations 
of  its  upper  surface  appear  to  be  due  to  the  pressure  of  the  edges  of 
these  upon  it.  It  separates  readily  from  the  margin  of  the  pileus  and  is 
not  lacerated.  In  the  mature  plant  the  warts  have  generally  disap- 
peared from  the  pileus  and  sometimes  its  margin  is  curved  upward 
Peck,  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  24,  No.  3. 

Woods.  Auburn,  N.  Y.,  Alabama,  U.  and  E.;  Pennsylvania,  West 
Virginia,  New  Jersey,  August  to  October,  Mcllvaine. 

A  dozen  or  more  specimens  were  found  in  oak  woods  near  Philadel- 
phia, and  carefully  tested.  Their  edible  qualities  were  found  to  be 
precisely  the  same  as  A.  solitaria. 

***  Whole  volva  friable,  etc. 

A.  rubes'cens  Pers. — rubesco,  to  become  red.  (Plate  IX,  fig.  2, 
p.  18.  Plate  XII,  fig.  4,  p.  32.)  Pileus  about  4  in.  broad,  dingy- 
reddish,  becoming  pale  flesh-color,  tan,  scarcely  pure,  fleshy,  convex, 
then  plane,  obtuse,  moist  but  not  glutinous  in  rainy  weather  and  opaque 
when  dry,  covered  with  unequal,  soft,  mealy,  whitish,  easily-separating 
warts,  which  are  smaller,  harder  and  more  closely  adherent  in  dry 
weather ;  margin  even  and,  when  old,  slightly  striate  only  in  wet  weather. 
Flesh  commonly  soft,  white  when  fresh,  reddening  when  broken.  Stem 
4-5  in.  long,  as  much  as  I  in.  thick,  stuffed,  somewhat  solid,  though 
soft  within,  conico-attenuated  from  the  thickened  base,  reddish-scaled, 
becoming  red-white,  and  without  a  trace  of  a  distinct  volva  at  the  base. 
Ring;  superior,  large,  membranaceous,  soft,  striate  and  white  within. 
Gills  reaching  the  stem  in  an  attenuated  manner,  forming  decurrent  lines 
upon  it,  thin,  crowded,  soft,  as  much  as  %  in.  broad,  shining  white. 

Very  changeable,  but  readily  distinguished  from  all  others  of  the 
same  group  by  the  flesh  being  reddish  when  broken;  the  stem  and  pileus 
are  commonly  spotted-red  when  wounded.  In  dry  weather  it  is  firmer, 
flesh  reddening  more  slowly,  warts  minute.  Odor  scarcely  any.  There 

21 


Agaricaceae 

Amanita.  is  a  remarkable  variety  circinata,  pileus  becoming  plane,  umber-brown, 
warts  adnate,  crowded,  roundish.  A.  circinatus  Schum.  Stevenson. 

Spores  spheroid-ellipsoid,  7-8x6ju,  K.;  8x6/1  W.G.S.;  7-9x6-81*  B.; 
elliptical,  8-9/x.  long.  Peck. 

Not  reported  west  of  the  Mississippi  river. 

Oak  woods,  borders  and  open  places.  July  to  September.  Indiana, 
H .  I.  Miller;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina,  Pennsyl- 
vania, Mcllvaine. 

It  is  quite  common,  often  growing  in  large  patches.  Recent  authors 
agree  upon  the  edibility  and  deliciousness  of  this  species.  The  author 
knows  it  to  be  one  of  the  most  plentiful,  useful  and  delicious,  after  sev- 
eral years  of  pleasant  experience  with  it. 

In  July,  1899,  at  Mt.  Gretna,  I  found,  growing  from  the  ground  gre- 
gariously, a  singular  fungoid  growth  from  2-5  in.  high;  cap  hemis- 
pherical, i  in.  in  diameter,  tightly  fitting  a  solid  stem  of  nearly  the 
diameter  of  the  cap.  The  whole  was  watery  white,  and  evidently  af- 
fected by  a  parasite.  It  was  edible.  September  ist  Professor  Peck 
wrote  to  me :  "I  think  I  have  found  the  identity  of  the  diseased 
Agaric,  of  which  you  sent  me  samples  some  time  ago.  I  mean  the  one 
affected  by  Hypomyces  incequalis  Pk.  The  host  is  Amanita  rubescens, 
at  least  sometimes,  and  probably  always." 

The  plant  is  very  heavy  for  its  size.  The  lack  of  a  volva,  the  dingy 
color  and  reddish  stains  .distinctly  separate  this  from  any  poisonous 
Amanita. 

A.  spis'sa  Fr. — compact,  dense; — of  the  warts.  Pileus  umber,  sooty 
or  gray,  fleshy,  somewhat  compact,  convexo-plane,  obtuse,  smooth, 
even,  but  marked  with  small,  ash-colored,  angular,  adnate  warts;  mar- 
gin even,  but  often  torn  into  fibers.  Flesh  firm,  white,  quite  imchange- 
able.  Stem  2—3  in.  long,  as  much  as  I  in.  thick,  solid,  turnip-shaped 
at  the  base,  somewhat  rooting  with  a  globoso-depressed  not  marginate 
bulb,  curt,  firm,  shining  white,  at  length  squamulose  with  concentric 
cracks.  Ring  superior,  large.  Gills  reaching  the  stem,  slightly  striato- 
decurrent,  broad,  crowded,  shining  white.  Fries. 

Spores  I4f-  W.G.S.;  subglobose,  8-10/1  C.B.P.;  6/*  W.P.;  rather 
pear-shaped,  9—10x6^  Massee. 

Cap  2—3  in.  across.      Stem  2/^—3  in.  long,  up  to  %  in.  thick. 

New  Jersey,  oak  woods,  August  and  September.     Mcllvaine. 

22 


Leucosporae 

A.  spissa  has  been  reported  from  but  few  localities.      It  is  rare  in  the  Amanita. 
latitude  of  Philadelphia.      Half  a  dozen  specimens  have  been  found  in 
neighboring  New  Jersey. 

Taste  and  smell  strong,  but  when  cooked  the  dish  is  savory  and  not 
unlike  one  of  A.  rubescens. 

A.  as'pera  Fr. — asper,  rough.  Pileus  2-3  in.  across.  Flesh  rather 
thick  at  the  disk,  whitish,  white  or  reddish  with  tints  of  livid  or  gray, 
reddish  or  brownish  under  the  cuticle;  convex  then  plane,  margin  thin 
and  even,  rough  with  firmly  adnate,  minute,  closely  crowded,  angular 
warts,  reddish-brown  or  livid-brownish,  not  pure  white,  unchangeable. 
Gills  free  and  rounded  behind,  not  striately  decurrent,  ventricose,  white. 
Stem  stuffed,  striate  above  the  ring,  short  at  first,  ovate,  then  elon- 
gating to  2-3  in.,  attenuated  upward  from  a  wrinkled  bulb,  squamulose, 
white  without  and  within.  Ring  superior,  entire. 

Spores  8x6/u.  Massee;  8x6—7/4  W.G.S. 

The  flesh  of  stem  and  bulb  when  eaten  by  insects  is  reddish,  the  bulb 
when  old  is  a  reddish-brown.  The  large  ring  and  stem  become  red 
when  touched.  In  these  particulars  it  resembles  A.  rubescens.  In  smell 
it  is  somewhat  strong,  not  unlike  A.  strobiliformis,  but  not  nearly  so 
pungent. 

Cooked  it  is  of  excellent  quality  and  flavor.    I  have  eaten  it  since  1885 . 

A.  abrup'ta  Pk. — abrupt,  of  the  bulb.  Pileus  thin,  broadly  convex 
or  nearly  plane,  covered  with  small  angular  or  pyramidal,  erect,  some- 
what evanescent  warts,  white,  slightly  striate  on  the  margin.  Flesh 
white.  Gills  moderately  close,  reaching  the  stem  and  sometimes  ter- 
minating in  slightly  decurrent  lines  upon  it,  white.  Stem  slender,  gla- 
brous, solid,  bulbous,  white,  the  bulb  abrupt,  subglobose,  often  coated 
below  by  the  white  persistent  mycelium,  the  ring  membranous,  per- 
sistent. Spores  broadly  elliptical  or  subglobose,  8-iox6-8/x. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2.5-4  m-  l°ng,  3~4  lines  thick. 

The  chief  distinguishing  mark  of  this  species  is  the  abrupt,  nearly 
globose,  bulbous  base  of  the  stem.  This  is  somewhat  flattened  above 

o 

and  is  sometimes  longitudinally  split  on  the  sides.  The  small  warts  of 
the  pileus  are  easily  separable,  and  in  mature  specimens  they  have  often 
wholly  or  partly  disappeared.  The  remains  of  the  volva  are  not  pres- 
ent on  the  bulb  in  mature  dried  specimens,  which  indicates  that  the 

23 


Agaricaceae 

Amanita.  species  should  be  placed  in  the  same  group  with  A.  rubescens,  A. 
spissa,  etc.  The  latter  species  have  the  bulb  of  the  stem  similar  to  that 
of  our  plant,  but  the  color  of  the  pileus  and  other  characters  easily  sep- 
arate it.  Peck,  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  24,  No.  3. 

Alabama,  Underwood;  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine.  July 
to  September. 

This  species  is  edible  and  quite  equal  in  quality  to  A.  rubescens. 
Great  care  should  be  exercised  in  distinguishing  it. 

A.  nit'ida  Fr. — niteo,  to  shine.  Pileus  when  flattened  4  in.  broad, 
whitish,  fleshy,  somewhat  compact,  at  first  hemispherical,  wrapped  up,  the 
thick  volva  forming  a  floccose  crust,  then  broken  up  into  thick,  remark- 
ably angular,  adhering  warts,  which  become  brownish,  dry,  shining, 
without  a  glutinous  pellicle,  margin  always  even.  Flesh  white,  quite 
unchangeable.  Stem  3  in.  long,  i  in.  thick,  solid,  firm,  conico-attenu- 
ated,  with  a  bulb-shaped  base ,  squamulose,  white.  Ring  superior,  thin, 
torn,  slightly  striate,  white,  villous  beneath,  at  length  disappearing. 
Gills  free,  crowded,  very  broad,  as  much  as  %  in.,  ventricose,  shining 
white.  Fries. 

Menands.  Albany  county.  Our  plant  is  more  slender  than  the 
typical  form,  and  has  smaller  but  more  numerous  warts,  but  in  other 
respects  it  exhibits  the  characters  of  this  species.  Peek,  43d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

California,  H.  and  M.;  Maryland.  Common  in  nearly  every  woods 
in  Maryland.  Banning. 

From  its  likeness  to  poisonous  species  it  should  be  suspected. 

A.  prairiic'ola  Pk  — prairie,  colo,  to  inhabit.  Pileus  thin,  convex, 
slightly  verrucose,  white,  more  or  less  tinged  with  yellow,  even  on  the 
margin.  Flesh  white.  Gills  rather  broad,  subdistant,  reaching  the 
stem,  white.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  somewhat 
squamose  toward  the  base,  white  or  whitish,  the  annulus  persistent. 
Spores  large,  broadly  elliptical,  12-14^  long,  7-9/4  broad. 

Pileus  1.5-3  m-  broad.      Stem  2-2.5  m-  l°ng,  2~4  lines  thick. 

Bare  ground  on  open  prairies.    Kansas.   September.    E.  Bartholomew. 

This  species  belongs  to  the  same  tribe  as  A.  abrupta.  The  only  evi- 
dence of  the  presence  of  a  volva  shown  by  the  dried  specimens  is  found 
in  a  few  inconspicuous,  but  separable  warts  on  the  pileus.  There  is  no 

24 


Leucosporae 

well  marked   bulb  to  the  stem  and  no  evidence  remains  of  a  volva  at  its  Amanita. 
base.     Peck,  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  24,  No.  3. 
Reported  from  Kansas  only.      Qualities  unknown. 

A.  monticulo'sa  Berk. — mountain,  from  the  warts.  Pileus  2.5-3  m- 
across,  convex,  areolate,  with  a  wart  in  the  center  of  each  areola;  those 
toward  the  margin  consisting  of  soft  threads  meeting  in  a  point,  but 
sometimes  simply  flocculent,  the  central  warts  angular,  pyramidal,  trun- 
cate, discolored.  Stem  bulbous,  scaly,  flocculent,  white.  Veil  thick, 
at  length  distant.  Gills  free,  ventricose,  remote,  forming  a  well-defined 
area  around  the  top  of  the  stem.  The  warts  are  not  hard  and  rigid  as 
in  A.  nitida,  and  the  free  remote  gills  separate  it  from  that  and  the 
neighboring  species.  Berk. 

North  Carolina,  sandy  woods,  common.      Curtis. 

Properties  not  known. 

A.  dail'cipes  B.  and  M. — daucum,  a  carrot;  pes,  afoot.  Pileus  2—5 
in.  broad,  hemispherical,  globose.  Flesh  white,  soft,  warts  regular, 
pyramidal,  saffron  color.  Gills  narrow,  reaching  the  stem,  broadest  in 
the  middle.  Stem  5—6  in.  high,  solid,  base  bulbous,  with  a  restricted 
cortina  above,  squamulose  downward.  Veil  fibrillose,  extending  from 
the  margin  of  the  pileus  to  the  apex  of  the  stem,  fugacious. 

In  cultivated  fields.      Ohio.      Sullivant.     Properties  not  given. 

A.  lenticillar'is  Lasch. — resembling  (the  stem)  a  lentil. 
Fries  places  this  species  in  Amanita,  in  which  Stevenson  follows  him. 
Cooke  and  Massee  place  it  in  Lepiota,  where  it  will  be  found. 

*  Volva  rudimentary,  wholly  disappearing. 

A.  chlorilios'ma  Pk. — smelling  like  chlorine.  (Plate  IX,  fig.  i, 
p.  1 8.)  Pileus  convex  or  expanded,  warty  on  the  disk,  covered  on 
the  even  margin  with  a  light  powdery,  at  length  evanescent  substance, 
white.  Gills  white.  Stem  nearly  cylindrical,  stout,  deeply  penetrating 
the  earth.  Spores  broadly  elliptical,  7-10^  long.  Odor  distinct,  chlo- 
rine-like. 

Plant  6-7  in.  high.  Pileus  4-6  in.  broad.  Stem  1-2  in.  thick. 
Peck,  Bot.  Gaz.,  Vol.  4. 

25 


Agaricacese 

Amanita.       Burnt  ground  in  woods.     August.      Closter,   N.  J.,    C.   F.    Austin; 
Alabama,    U.    and  E.;  West  Virginia,  Nuttall;    New    Jersey,   Ellis; 
Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  July,  in  a  cluster  of  a  dozen  individuals,   and   after- 
ward until  frost,  strong  smelling,  warts  brownish-white,     Mcllvaine. 
It  is  edible  and  equal  to  A.  strobiliformis. 

A.  calyptra'ta  Pk.  Pileus  fleshy,  thick,  convex  or  nearly  plane, 
centrally  covered  by  a  large  irregular  persistent  grayish-white  fragment 
of  the  volva,  glabrous  elsewhere,  striate  on  the  margin,  greenish-yellow 
or  yellowish-brown  tinged  with  green,  the  margin  often  a  little  paler  or 
more  yellow  than  the  rest.  Lamellae  close,  nearly  free,  but  reaching 
the  stem  and  forming  slight  decurrent  lines  or  striations  on  it,  yellowish- 
white  tinged  with  green.  Stem  stout,  rather  long,  equal  or  slightly 
tapering  upward,  surrounded  at  the  base  by  the  remains  of  the  ruptured 
volva,  white  or  yellowish  white  with  a  faint  greenish  tint.  Spores 
broadly  elliptic,  IO/A  long,  6/u-  broad,  usually  containing  a  single  large 
nucleus. 

Pileus  10-20  cm.  broad.     Stem  10-15  cm.  long,  12-20  mm.  thick. 

Rich  ground  in  fir  woods  or  their  borders.  Autumn.  Oregon.  Dr, 
H .  Lane. 

This  is  a  large  and  interesting  species,  well  marked  and  easily  recog- 
nized by  its  large  size,  by  the  greenish  tint  that  pervades  the  pileus, 
lamellae,  annulus  and  stem,  and  especially  by  the  large  persistent  patch 
of  grayish-white  felty  material  that  covers  the  center  of  the  pileus  and 
sometimes  extends  nearly  to  the  margin.  This  is  in  fact  the  upper  part 
of  the  ruptured  volva  that  is  carried  up  by  the  growing  plant,  and  is 
very  suggestive  of  the  specific  name.  In  the  young  state  the  plant  is 
entirely  enveloped  in  the  volva,  which  then  is  similar  to  a  goose  egg  in 
size  and  shape,  and  its  walls  are  one-fourth  to  one-half  inch  thick.  So 
thick  and  firm  are  they  that  the  young  plant  appears  sometimes  to  be 
unable  to  break  through  and  it  decays  in  its  infancy. 

Dr.  Lane  says  that,  having  found  that  the  Italians  made  use  of  this 
mushroom  for  food,  he  began  eating  it  and  introducing  it  to  his  friends, 
and  he  learned  by  personal  trial  that  it  is  a  thoroughly  good  and  whole- 
some mushroom,  which,  when  broiled  with  bacon,  fried,  baked  or 
stewed,  may  be  eaten  with  perfect  safety  and  that  it  is  a  nutritious  food. 
Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  27,  January,  1900. 

26 


Leucosporee 

A.  Creimla'ta  Pk.  PileuS  thin,  broadly  ovate,  becoming  convex  Amanita. 
or  nearly  plane  and  somewhat  striate  on  the  margin,  adorned  with  a  few 
thin  whitish  floccose  warts  or  with  whitish  flocculent  patches,  whitish  or 
grayish,  sometimes  tinged  with  yellow.  Lamellsp  close,  reaching  the 
stem,  and  sometimes  forming  decurrent  lines  upon  it,  floccose  crenulate 
on  the  edge,  the  short  ones  truncate  at  the  inner  extremity,  white. 
Stem  equal,  bulbous,  floccose  mealy  above,  stuffed  or  hollow,  white, 
the  annulus  slight,  evanescent.  Spores  broadly  elliptic  or  subglobose, 
7.5-101".  long,  nearly  as  broad,  usually  containing  a  single  large  nucleus. 

PileuS  2.5-5  cm-  broad.      Stem  2.5-5  cm-  l°ng>  6-8  mm.  thick. 

Low  ground,  under  trees.  Eastern  Massachusetts.  September.  Mrs. 
E.  Blackford  and  George  E.  Morris. 

The  volva  in  this  species  must  be  very  slight,  as  its  remains  quickly 
disappear  from  the  bulb  of  the  stem.  The  remains  carried  up  by  the 
pileus  form  slight  warts  or  thin  whitish  areolate  patches.  The  annulus 
is  present  in  very  young  plants,  but  is  often  wanting  in  mature  ones,  in 
which  state  the  plant  might  be  mistaken  for  a  species  of  Amanitopsis. 
Its  true  affinity  is  with  the  tribe  to  which  A.  rubescens  belongs.  As  in 
that  species,  the  bulb  soon  becomes  naked  and  exhibits  no  remains  of 
the  volva.  It  is  similar  to  A.  farinosa  also  in  this  respect,  but  quite 
unlike  it  in  color,  in  the  adornments  of  the  pileus  and  in  the  character 
of  its  margin,  which  is  even  in  the  young  plant  and  but  slightly  striate 
in  the  mature  state.  Its  dimensions  are  said  sometimes  to  exceed  those 
here  given,  and  it  is  reported  to  have  been  eaten  without  harm  and  to 
be  of  an  excellent  flavor.  I  have  had  no  opportunity  to  try.  Peck, 
Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  27,  January,  1900. 


Agaricaceae 

AMANITOFSIS  Roze. 

Amanita;  op  sis,  resembling. 

Amanitopsis.  AFLFH  AVING  a  universal  veil  at  first  completely  envel- 

oping the  young  plant,  which  soon  bursts  through, 
carrying  particles  of  it  on  the  pileus,  where  they 
appear  as  scattered  warts  readily  brushed  off;  the 
remainder  or  volva  closely  enwraps  the  base  of  the 
stem.  Ring  absent.  Spores  white.  This  genus 

r  ^^»B-^>Jwrj=    _--. 

^  •**  was  formerly  included  in  Amanita.  It  differs  from 
Amanita  in  the  absence  of  a  ring  or  collar  upon  the  stem  and  in  the 
more  sheathing  volva.  It  differs  from  Lepiota  in  having  a  volva. 

Close  observation  is  necessary  in  collecting  Amanitopsis  for  the  table. 
It  has  no  trace  of  ring  or  veil  upon  the  stem .  So  far  as  the  species  are 
known  no  poisonous  one  exists.  But  Amanita  spreta  Pk.,  which  is 
deadly,  so  closely  resembles  forms  of  Amanitopsis  that  those  confident 
of  their  knowledge  will  be  deceived.  The  veil  or  traces  of  veil,  which 
Amanita  spreta  always  has,  sometimes  so  adheres  to  and  wraps  the  stem 
that  it  is  not  noticeable  without  close  examination,  thus  giving  to  it 
every  appearance  of  an  Amanitopsis. 

The  volva  of  A.  spreta  is  attached  for  a  considerable  distance  to  the 
base  of  the  tapering  stem,  and  is  not  readily  removed.  This  is  a  guide 
to  detect  it.  It  is  a  wolf  in  sheep's  clothing. 

Amanitopsis  corresponds  to  Volvaria  in  the  pink-spored  series,  in 
which,  as  far  as  known,  there  is  no  poisonous  species. 

All  American  species  of  Amanitopsis  are  given.  Several  have  not 
been  tested  by  the  writer  because  of  lack  of  opportunity. 

A.  vagina'ta  Roze — vagina,  a  sheath.  (Plate  X,  figs.  I,  2,  p.  28.) 
PileilS  thin,  fragile,  glossy,  smooth  except  in  rare  instances  where  a 
few  fragments  of  the  volva  adhere  to  it  for  a  time,  deeply  and  distinctly 
striate  on  the  margin,  sometimes  umbonate.  Flesh  white,  in  the  dark 
forms  grayish  under  the  skin.  Stem  ringless,  sometimes  smooth,  but 
generally  mealy  or  floccose,  hollow  or  stuffed  with  a  cottony  pith,  not 
bulbous.  Volva  long,  thin,  fragile,  closely  sheathing  yet  free  from  the 
stem,  except  in  the  lower  part,  easily  detachable  and  frequently  remain- 
ing in  the  ground  when  the  plant  is  pulled.  Color  variable,  generally 
mouse-gray,  sometimes  livid,  tawny-yellow  or  white,  in  one  variety  a 

28 


mi 


Eli?  ^  * 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Briscoe  —  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


FIG 

1.  AMANITOPSIS  VAGINATA, 

2.  AMANITOPSIS  VAGINATA,  VAR.  L.IVIDA, 

3.  AMANITOPSIS  NIVALIS. 

4.  AMANITOPSIS  STBANGULATA, 


PAGE.       FIG. 

5.  MYOENA  GALEBICTILATA, 

6.  MYCENA  PBOLIFEBA, 

7.  MYCENA  PBOLIFERA  (SECTION), 


PAGE. 
127 
126 
126 


Leucosporse 

rich  date-brown.    Spores  globose,  8— IO/A  broad  Peck;  elliptical  10x7— 8/*  Amanitopsis. 
Massee. 

Var.  liv'ida  Pers. — livid.  Leaden  brown,  gills  dingy.  (Plate  X, 
fig.  2,  p.  28.) 

Var.  futva  Schaeff. — yellowish.     Tawny-yellow  or  pale  ochraceous. 

This  plant  is  widely  dispersed,  having  been  reported  from  many  local- 
ities in  the  United  States,  also  from  Nova  Scotia  and  Greenland. 

On  ground  in  woods  and  on  margins  of  woods,  under  trees,  in  shaded 
grassy  places.  Sometimes  in  open  stubble  and  pastures.  June  to  frost. 
Mt.  Gretna,  September,  1899,  found  a  cluster  on  decayed  chestnut 
stump.  Various  colors  abound — hazel,  brown,  gray,  yellow,  whitish. 
The  caps  and  stems  are  tender  as  asparagus  tips,  but  without  much  dis- 
tinct flavor  when  cooked. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  to  distinguish  these  forms  from  Amanita 
spreta  Pk.  which  is  poisonous.  See  heading  of  genus — Amanitopsis. 

A.  niva'lis  Grev. — snowy.  (Plate  X,  fig.  3,  p.  28.)  Pileus  at  first 
ovate,  then  convex  or  plane,  smooth,  striate  on  the  thin  margin,  white, 
sometimes  tinged  with  yellow  or  ochraceous  on  the  disk.  Flesh  white. 
Gills  subdistant,  white,  free.  Stem  equal,  rather  tall,  nearly  smooth, 
bulbous,  stuffed,  white;  the  volva  very  fragile,  soon  breaking  tip  into 
fragments  or  sometimes  persisting  in  the  form  of  a  collar-like  ring  at  the 
upper  part  of  the  bulb.  Spores  globose,  7.5-10^  in  diameter. 

Plant  4-6  in.  high.  PileilS  2-3  in.  broad.  Stem  2-4  lines  thick. 
July  to  October. 

It  approaches  in  some  respects  A.  Frostiana,  but  its  larger  size, 
smooth  pileus,  lighter  color  and  the  absence  of  an  annulus  will  easily 
distinguish  it  from  that  species.  Peck,  33d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Specimens  have  been  repeatedly  found  by  the  writer  in  open  oak 
woods  near  Philadelphia. 

A  strong,  unpleasant  bitter,  which  appears  to  develop  while  cooking, 
renders  it  unpalatable.  It  is  harmless,  but  its  use  is  not  advised. 

A.  velo'sa  Pk. — velosus,  fleecy.  Pileus  at  first  subglobose,  then  bell- 
shaped  or  nearly  plane,  generally  bearing  patches  of  the  remains  of  the 
whitish  felty  or  tomentose  volva,  elsewhere  glabrous,  becoming  sulcate- 
striate  on  the  margin,  buff  or  orange-buff.  Flesh  compact,  white. 
Gills  close,  reaching  the  stem,  subventricose,  pale  cream  color.  Stem 

29 


Agaricaceee 

Amanitopsis.  firm,  at  first  attenuated  and  tomentose  at  the  top,  then  nearly  equal, 
stuffed,  white  or  whitish,  closely  sheathed  at  the  base  by  the  thick  volva. 
Spores  globose,  io-13/x. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick 

Under  oak  trees.      Pasadena,  California.     April.     A.  J.  McClatchie. 

This  fungus  is  closely  related  to  A.  vaginata,  from  which  it  may  be 
separated  by  the  more  adherent  remains  of  the  thicker  volva  which 
sometimes  cover  the  whole  surface  of  the  pileus,  and  by  the  thicker  gills 
which  are  somewhat  adnate  to  the  stem  and  terminate  with  a  decurrent 
tooth.  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  22,  No.  12. 

As  it  is  probable  this  species  will  be  found  elsewhere  than  California, 
and  from  its  close  relation  to  A.  vaginata  likely  to  be  edible,  its  descrip- 
tion is  here  given. 

A.  Strangllla'ta  (Fr.)  Roze — choked,  from  the  stuffed  stem.  (Plate 
X,  fig.  4,  p.  28.)  Pileus  at  first  ovate  or  subelliptical,  then  bell-shaped, 
convex  or  plane,  warty,  slightly  viscid  when  moist,  deeply  and  distinctly 
striate  on  the  margin,  grayish-brown.  Gills  free,  close,  white.  Stem 
equal  or  tapering  upward,  stuffed  or  hollow,  nearly  smooth,  white  or 
whitish,  the  volva  soon  breaking  up  into  scales  or  subannular  fragments, 
Spores  globose,  io-i3)u,. 

Plant  4-6  in.  high.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.  Stem  3-6  lines  thick. 
Peck,  33d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

A.  Cecilia  B.  and  Br.  is  a  synonym. 

Not  distinct  in  color  and  general  appearance  from  A.  vaginata,  but 
distinctly  separated  by  its  warty  pileus  and  evanescent  mouse-colored 
volva  which  does  not  sheath  the  stem.  Pileus  striate  when  young,  then 
sulcate.  Stem  mealy,  especially  on  the  upper  part. 

Woods,  open  grassy  places,  wheat  stubble,  etc.  June  to  September. 
Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  West  Virginia,  Mcllvaine. 

In  the  latitude  of  Philadelphia  the  plant  is  found  in  great  abundance. 
Its  rather  early  appearance,  staying  quality,  delicate  consistency  and 
flavor  make  it  valuable  as  a  food  supply. 

Pearl  color,  bluish-gray  and  gray  are  the  prevailing  cap-coloring. 

A.  adna'ta  (W.G.S.)  Roze — adnatus,  adnate,  of  the  gills.  Pileus 
about  3  in.  across.  Flesh  thick,  whitish,  firm,  convex,  then  expanded, 
rather  moist,  pale  yellowish-buff,  often  furnished  with  irregular,  woolly 

30 


Leucosporae 

patches  of  volva ;  margin  even,  extending  beyond  the  gills.  Stem  2-4  Amanitopsis. 
in.  long,  )'2  in.  thick,  cylindrical,  rough,  fibrillose,  pale  buff,  flesh  dis- 
tinct from  that  of  the  pileus,  stuffed,  then  hollow;  base  slightly  swollen. 
Volva  adnate,  white,  downy,  margin  free  and  lax,  sometimes  almost 
obsolete.  Gills  truly  adnate,  crowded,  with  many  intermediate  shorter 
ones,  white.  Spores  subglobose,  with  an  oblique  point,  7-8/ut  Massee. 
Tender,  good  flavor,  yielding  more  substance  when  cooked  than  any 
other  Amanitopsis. 

A.  volva'ta  Pk. — possessing  a  volva.  Pileus  convex,  then  nearly 
plane,  slightly  striate  on  the  margin,  hairy  or  floccose-scaly,  white  or 
whitish,  the  disk  sometimes  brownish.  Gills  close,  free,  white.  Stem 
equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  stuffed,  minutely  floccose-scaly, 
whitish,  inserted  at  the  base  in  a  large,  firm,  cup-shaped,  persistent 
volva.  Spores  elliptical,  lOxSyu,. 

Plant  2-3  in.  high.  Pileus  2-3  broad.  Stem  3-4  lines  thick. 
Peck,  33d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

The  plant  is  easily  recognized  by  its  large,  cup-shaped  volva  and  cap, 
which  is  not  smooth,  as  is  usual  in  a  species  with  a  persistent  mem- 
branous volva,  more  or  less  scaly  with  minute  tufts  of  fibrils  or  tomen- 
tose  hairs.  The  gills  are  white  in  the  fresh  plant. 

Professor  Peck  notes  the  species  as  quite  rare.  Numerous  specimens 
occur  in  the  sandy  oak  woods  of  New  Jersey,  and  in  oak  woods  near 
Angora,  Philadelphia.  July  to  October. 

Care  must  be  taken  to  determine  the  absence  of  an  annulus  or  any 
trace  of  one.  Tender,  delicate,  without  pronounced  flavor.  Equal  to 
Amanitopsis  vaginata. 

A.  farino'sa  Schw. — covered  with  farina,  meal.  PileilS  nearly  plane, 
thin,  flocculent-pulverulent,  widely  and  deeply  striate  on  the  margin , 
grayish-brown  or  livid-brown.  Gills  free,  whitish.  Stem  whitish  or 
pallid,  equal,  stuffed  or  hollow,  mealy,  stib-bulbous,  the  volva  flocculent- 
pulverulent,  evanescent.  Spores  variable,  elliptical  ovate  or  subglobose , 
6-8/u,  long. 

Plant  about  2  in.  high.  Pileus  I  in.  to  15  lines  broad.  Stem  1-3 
lines  thick.  July  to  September. 

This  is  our  smallest  Amanita  (now  Amanitopsis).  It  is  neither  very 
common  nor  very  abundant  when  it  does  occur.  It  is  described  by 

3! 


Agaricaceee 

Amanitopsis.  Schweinitz  as  "solid,"  but  I  have  always  found  it  stuffed  or  hollow. 
Peck,  33d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

A.  pusil'la  Pk. — small.  Pileus  thin,  broadly  convex  or  nearly  plane, 
subglabrous,  slightly  umbonate,  even  on  the  margin,  pale  brown.  Gills 
narrow,  thin,  close,  free,  becoming  brownish.  Stem  short,  hollow, 
bulbous,  the  bulb  margined  by  the  remains  of  the  membranous  volva. 
Spores  broadly  elliptical,  5-6x4/x. 

Pileus  about  i  in.  broad.     Stem  8-12  lines  long,  1-2  lines  thick. 

Grassy  ground.  Gouverneur,  St.  Lawrence  county.  September.  Mrs. 
Anthony.  Peck,  5oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Edibility  not  tested. 

A.  pubes'cens  Schw. — downy.  Pileus  yellow,  covered  with  a  thin 
pubescence,  margin  involute.  Stem  short,  about  I  in.  in  length,  at 
first  white  becoming  yellowish,  bulbous,  bulb  thick.  Volva  evanescent. 
Gills  white. 

In  grassy  grounds.     Rare. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis. 

A.  agglutina'ta  B.  and  C. — viscid.  Pileus  1-2  in.  broad,  white, 
hemispheric  then  plane,  viscid,  areolate-scaly  from  the  remains  of  the 
volva,  margin  thin,  sulcate.  Stem  .5-1-5  in.  long,  2  lines  thick,  short, 
solid,  bulbous.  Volva  with  a  free  margin.  Gills  broad,  ventricose, 
rotundate-free.  Spores  elliptic. 

In  pine  woods. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis. 

Resembling  some  of  the  dwarf  forms  of  A.  vaginata  but  at  once  dis- 
tinguished by  its  solid  stem  and  decidedly  viscid,  areolate-squamose 
pileus.  Am.  Jour.  Sci.  and  Arts,  1848. 


Leucosporae 


LEPIO'TA   Fr.~ 

Lepis,  a  scale. 

PileilS  generally  scaly  from  the  breaking  up  of  the  cuticle  and  the  Lepiota. 
adherence  of  the  concrete  veil.      Grills  free,  often  very  distant  from  the 
stem    and  attached   to  a  cartilagi-  X^i^    (Plate  XI.) 

nous  collar.  Stem  hollow  or  stuffed, 
its  flesh  distinct  from  that  of  the 
pileus.  Ring  at  first  attached  to 
the  cuticle  of  the  pileus,  often  mov- 
able, sometimes  evanescent. 

On  the  ground .  Several  are  found 
in  hot-houses  and  hot-beds,  and  are 
probably  introduced  species. 

The  universal  veil,  covering  the 
entire  plant  when  very  young,  is 
closely  applied  to  the  pileus,  which 
from  the  breaking  up  of  the  cuticle 
is  generally  scaly.  The  stem  in 
most  species  differs  in  substance 
from  the  pileus.  This  is  readily 
seen  by  splitting  the  plant  in  half 
from  cap  to  base.  It  is  easily  sep- 
arated from  the  cap,  leaving  a  cup- 
like  depression  therein.  Grills  usu- 
ally white.  In  some  species  they  are  yellow-tinted.  In  others  they 
become  a  dingy  red  when  wounded  or  ageing. 

The  veil  in  this  genus,  being  concrete  with  the  cuticle  of  the  pileus, 
never  appears  as  loose  warts  or  patches,  neither  is  there  a  volva  as  in 
Amanita  and  Amanitopsis.  These  three  genera  are  the  only  ones  in 
the  white-spored  series  having  gills  free  from  the  stem.  In  a  few  species 
the  gills  are  slightly  attached  to  the  stem,  but  are  never  decurrent  upon 
it  as  in  Armillaria.  When  the  plant  is  young  it  is  egg-shaped.  It  then 
gradually  spreads,  becomes  convex,  and  opens  until  it  is  nearly  flat, 
with  a  knob  in  the  center. 

The  only  species  in  this  genus  known  to  be  poisonous  to  some  persons 
is  L.  Morgani  Pk.,  which  is  distinguished  by  its  green  spores  and  white 
3  .'3 


SECTION  OF  LEPIOTA  PROCERA. 


Agaricaceae 

Lepiota.  gills  becoming  green.     L.  Vittadini  has  also  been  regarded  with  sus- 
picion. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

A.    PILEUS  DRY. 

PROCERI  (L.  procera}.     Page  35. 

King  movable.  The  plant  is  at  first  entirely  enclosed  in  a  universal 
veil,  which  splits  around  at  the  base,  the  lower  part  disappearing  on 
the  bulb,  the  upper  part  attached  to  the  pileus  breaking  up  into  scales. 
Stem  encircled  at  the  top  with  a  cartilaginous  collar  to  which  the  free, 
remote  gills  are  attached. 

CLYPEOLARII  {L.  clypeolaria) .     Page  39. 

Ring  fixed,  attached  to  the  upper  portion  of  the  universal  veil  which 
sheaths  the  stem  from  the  base  upward,  making  it  downy  or  scaly  below 
the  ring.  The  remainder  of  the  veil  united  with  the  pileus  breaking  up 
and  becoming  downy  or  scaly.  Collar  at  the  apex  of  stem  not  so  large 
as  in  Proceri,  hence  the  gills  are  not  usually  so  remote.  Taste  and 
smell  unpleasant,  resembling  that  of  radishes. 

ANNULOSI  (annulus,  a  ring).     Page  44- 

Ring  fixed,  somewhat  persistent,  universal  veil  closely  attached  to  the 
pileus.  Collar  absent  or  similar  in  texture  to  the  stem.  Stem,  not 

sheathed. 

GRANULOSI  {L.  granulosa}.     Page  49. 

Pileus  granular  or  warty.  Universal  veil  sheathing  the  stem,  at  first 
continuous  from  the  stem  to  the  pileus,  finally  rupturing,  forming  a  ring 
nearer  the  base.  Stem  not  so  distinctly  different  from  the  pileus  as  in 
other  sections. 

MESOMORPHI  (L.  mesomorpha). 

Small,  slender,  stem  hollow.     Pileus  smooth,  dry. 

B.   PILEUS  VISCID.    NEITHER  SCALY  NOR  WARTY. 


34 


PLATK  XII. 


PLATB  XIIJ. 


Photographed  by  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist. 

LEPIOTA  PROCER\ 


Leucosporae 


A.    PILEUS  DRY. 
PROCE'RI.      Ring  movable,  etc. 

L.   proce'ra   Scop. — procems,   tall.       (Plate    XIII,    p.    34.)       Tall  Lepiota. 
Lepiota,  Parasol  Mushroom,   in  some  localities  Pasture  Mushroom  (a 
misleading  title). 

HE  Flesh  not  very  thick,  soft,  permanently  white. 
Pileus  at  first  ovate,  finally  expanded,  cuticle  soon 
breaking  up  into  brown  scales,  excepting  upon  the 
umbo,  umbo  smooth,  dark-brown,  distinct.  The 
caps  vary  in  shades  of  brown,  sometimes  they 
have  a  faint  tinge  of  lavender.  Gills  whitish, 
crowded,  narrowing  toward  the  stem,  and  very  re- 
mote from  it.  Stem  variable  in  length,  often  very 
long,  tubular,  at  first  stuffed  with  light  fibrils, 

quite  bulbous  at  base,  generally  spotted  or  scaly  with  peculiar  snake- 
like  markings  below  the  ring,  which  is  thick,  firm  and  readily  movable. 
When  the  stem  is  removed  from  pileus  it  leaves  a  deep  cavity  extending 
nearly  to  the  cuticle. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.      Stem  5-12  in.  high,  about  %  in.  thick. 
White   spores   elliptical,    14-18x9-1  I/A  Peck;     12-15x8-9^  Massee; 
14x10/11  Lloyd. 

Readily  known  by  its  extremely  tall  stem,  shaggy  cap,  distinct  umbo 
and  the  channel  between  the  gills  and  stem.  Resembles  no  poisonous 
species. 

Before  cooking  the  scurf  should  be  rubbed  from  the  caps,  which  alone 
should  be  eaten,  as  the  stem  is  tough.  Though  the  flesh  is  thin,  the 
gills  are  meaty  and  have  a  pleasant,  nutty  flavor.  Fried  in  butter  it 
has  few  equals.  It  makes  a  superior  catsup. 

L.  raclio'des  Vitt.  Gr. — a  ragged,  tattered  garment.  PileilS  very 
fleshy,  but  very  soft  when  full  grown,  globose  then  flattened  or  depressed, 
not  umbonate,  at  first  incrusted  with  a  thick,  rigid,  even,  very  smooth, 
bay-brown,  wholly  continuous  cuticle,  which  remains  entire  at  the  disk 
but  otherwise  soon  becomes  elegantly  reticulated  with  cracks;  these  very 
readily  separate  into  persistent,  polygonal,  concentric  scales,  which  are 
revolute  at  the  margin  and  attached  to  the  surface  with  beautifully 
radiating  fibers,  the  surface  remaining  coarsely  fibrillose-downy.  Flesh 

35 


Agaricaceae 

Lepiota.  white,  immediately  becoming  saffron-red  when  broken,  easily  separating 
from  the  apex  of  the  distinct  stem,  which  is  encircled  with  a  prominent 
collar.  Stem  stout,  at  the  first  bulbous  with  a  distinct  margin  upon  the 
bulb,  conical  when  young,  then  elongated,  attenuated  upward,  as  much 
as  a  span  long,  very  robust,  I  in.  thick,  and  more  at  the  base,  always 
even,  and  without  a  trace  of  scales  or  even  of  fibrils  although  the  ap- 
pearance is  obsoletely  silky,  wholly  whitish,  hollow  within,  stuffed  with 
spider-web  threads,  the  walls  remarkably  and  coarsely  fibrous.  King 
•movable,  adhering  longer  to  the  margin  of  the  pileus  than  to  the  apex 
•of  the  stem,  hence  rayed  with  fibers  at  the  circumference,  clothed 
beneath  with  one  or  two  zones  of  scales.  Gills  very  remote,  tapering 
toward  each  end  or  broadest  at  the  middle,  crowded,  whitish,  some- 
times reddening.  Stevenson. 

Veil  remarkable  in  its  development  and  thick  margin. 

Spores  6x8/A  W.G.S. 

Fort  Edward,  Howe;  Westfield,  N.  Y.,  Miss  L.  M.  Patchen;  Penn- 
sylvania, New  Jersey,  Mcllvaine. 

A  heavier  species  than  L.  procera,  of  which  by  some  writers  it  has 
been  considered  a  variety,  but  it  differs  in  the  absence  of  umbo  and  flesh 
becoming  tinged  with  red. 

Stem  is  decidedly  swollen  downward.  Veil  heavy,  apparently  double, 
thickest  at  margin  of  cap  to  which  it  remains  attached  in  heavy  frag- 
ments. It  tears  from  the  stem,  leaving  no  mark  of  ring. 

Var.  puellaris  Fr. — puella,  a  girl.  Smaller  than  typical  form,  shining 
white,  pileus  with  downy  scales.  Not  yet  reported  in  America. 

Edible  qualities  similar  to  those  of  L.  procera.  It  is  sold  indiscrimi- 
nately with  it  in  London  markets. 

L.  excoria'ta  Schaeff. — stripped  of  its  skin.  Flesh  spongy,  rather 
thick,  white,  unchangeable.  Pileus  at  first  globose,  then  flat,  hardly 
umbonate,  pale-fawn  or  whitish,  disk  dark;  cuticle  thin,  silky  or  scaly, 
sometimes  areolate,  more  or  less  peeled  toward  margin,  hence  its  name. 
Gills  ventricose,  white,  free,  somewhat  remote.  Stem  attenuated, 
hollow  or  stuffed,  short,  scarcely  bulbous,  smooth,  white,  not  spotted, 
very  distinct  from  flesh  of  pileus.  Ring  movable  but  not  so  freely  as 
that  of  L.  procera. 

Stem  \y*-2.%  in.  high,  less  than  >£  in.  thick.    Pileus  2-3  in.  broad. 

Spores  1 4- 1 5x8-9/4  Massee. 

36 


ILeucosporae 

In  pastures  or  grassy  lawns.     May  to  September.  Lepiota. 

North  Carolina,  edible,  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Frost;  California,  H. 
and  M.;  Ohio,  Morgan;  Minnesota,  Johnson. 

Distinguished  from  the  preceding  by  its  smaller  size  and  short  stem 
which  is  scarcely  bulbous. 

Esculent  qualities  good. 

L.  mastoi'dea  Fr.  Gr. — breast-shaped.  Pileus  rather  thin,  ovate, 
bell-shaped,  then  flattened,  with  a  conspicuous  acute  umbo,  cuticle  thin, 
brownish,  breaking  up  in  minute  scattered  scales;  the  pileus  appears 
whitish  beneath.  Stem  hollow,  smooth,  tough,  flexible,  attenuated 
from  the  bulbous  base  to  the  apex.  Ring  entire,  movable.  Gills  very 
remote,  crowded,  broad,  tapering  at  both  ends,  white. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick  at  base, 
1/^-2  lines  at  apex. 

North  Carolina,  edible,  Curtis.     It  is  generally  eaten  in  Europe. 

In  woods,  especially  about  old  stumps.     October. 

The  entire  plant  is  whitish  and  is  well  marked  by  the  prominent  umbo, 
which  generally  has  a  depression  around  it.  It  has  the  least  substance 
of  any  in  this  section,  and  consequently  not  much  value  as  food. 

L.  gracilen'ta  Krombh. — gracilis,  slender.  Pileus  rather  fleshy, 
thickest  at  the  disk,  ovate  then  bell-shaped,  finally  flattened,  obscurely 
umbonate;  at  first  brownish  from  the  adnate  cuticle,  which,  breaking 
up  into  broad  adpressed  scales,  allows  the  whitish  pileus  to  be  seen  be- 
neath them.  Gills  remote,  very  broad,  crowded,  pallid.  Stem  whit- 
ish, obscurely  scaly,  hollow  or  containing  slight  fibrils,  slightly  bulbous. 
Ring  thin,  floccose,  vanishing. 

Stem  5—6  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick.     In  pastures,  also  in  woods. 

Spores  nx8/A  W.G.S. 

Almost  as  tall  as  L.  procera,  but  slighter  in  stem  and  pileus;  the 
ring,  instead  of  being  firm  and  persistent,  is  thin  and  fugacious,  and 
the  stem  is  hardly  bulbous. 

Edible,  but  not  of  the  first  quality. 

L.  Mor'gani  Pk. — in  honor  of  Professor  Morgan.  (Plate  XIV.) 
Pileus  fleshy,  soft,  at  first  subglobose,  then  expanded  or  even  depressed, 
white,  the  brownish  or  yellowish  cuticle  breaking  up  into  scales  except 

37 


Agaricacese 

Lepiota.  on  the  disk.  Gills  close,  lanceolate,  remote,  white,  then  green.  Stem 
firm,  equal  or  tapering  upward,  subbulbous,  smooth,  webby-stuffed, 
whitish,  tinged  with  brown.  Ring  rather  large,  movable.  Flesh  both 
of  the  pileus  and  stem  white,  changing  to  reddish  and  then  to  yellowish 
when  cut  or  bruised.  Spores  ovate  or  subelliptical,  mostly  uninucleate, 
sordid  green,  10—13x7—8/1.. 

Plant  6-8  in.  high.  Pileus  5-9  in.  broad.  Stem  6-12  lines  thick. 
Peck  in  Bot.  Gaz.,  March,  1879. 

Open  dry  grassy  places.      Dayton,  Ohio.      A.  P.  Morgan. 

This  species  is  remarkable  because  of  the  peculiar  color  of  the  spores. 
No  green-spored  Agaric,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  has  before  been  dis- 
covered, and  no  one  of  the  five  series,  in  which  the  very  numerous  species 
of  the  genus  have  been  arranged,  is  characterized  in  such  a  way  as  to 
receive  this  species. 

It  seems  a  little  hasty  to  found  a  series  (Viridispori)  on  the  strength 
of  a  single  species.  Until  other  species  of  such  a  supposed  series  shall 
be  discovered  it  seems  best  to  regard  this  as  an  aberrant  member  of  the 
white-spored  series.  The  same  course  has  been  taken  with  those  Agarics 
which  have  sordid  or  yellowish  or  lilac-tinted  spores. 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  dedicate  this  fine  species  to  its  discoverer 
Mr.  Morgan.  Peck. 

Commonly  6-8  in.  high,  5-9  in.  diameter,  though  larger  specimens 
are  sometimes  found.  It  is  the  most  conspicuous  Agaric  in  the  meadows 
and  pastures  of  the  Miami  valley;  it  appears  to  flourish  from  spring  to 
autumn  whenever  there  is  abundance  of  rain. 

It  is  heavier  and  stouter  than  L.  procera  and  I  am  disposed  to  claim 
that  it  is  the  largest  Agaric  in  the  world.  Spores  10-12x7-8)"..  In 
immature  specimens  they  are  greenish-yellow.  Morgan. 

Kansas,  Bartholomew  (Peck,  Rep.  50);  Kansas,  Cragin;  Alabama, 
U.  and  E.;  Georgia,  Benson;  Louisiana,  Rev.  A.  B.  Langlois;  Michigan, 
C.  F.  Wheeler  (Lloyd,  Myc.  Notes) ;  Texas,  Prof.  W.  S.  Carter; 
Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller. 

L.  Morgan!  is  one  of  the  largest,  handsomest  of  the  genus.  It  is 
very  abundant  in  the  western  and  southwestern  states.  Mr.  H.  I. 
Miller,  Terre  Haute,  Ind.,  writes  August  18,  1898:  "I  have  recently 
measured  several  which  were  more  than  twelve  inches  across.  At  the 
present  time  this  mushroom  is  growing  in  more  abundance  throughout 
Indiana  than  any  other.  It  grows  luxuriantly  in  the  pastures,  generally 

38 


PLATE  XIV. 


m 
33 

O 
H 


O 

70 

O 


Leucosporse 

in  grand  fairy  rings,  five,  ten,  fifteen  feet  in  diameter.  We  find  it  also  Lepiotn, 
in  the  woods.  It  is  beautifully  white  and  majestic,  and  these  rings  can 
be  seen  in  meadows  where  the  grass  has  been  eaten  close,  for  half  a 
mile  or  more.  The  gills  are  white  until  the  cap  is  almost  opened,  by 
which  time  the  green  spores  begin  to  cause  the  gills  to  change  to  green. 
The  meat  is  fine  and  is  usually  more  free  from  worms  than  other  mush- 
rooms. Six  families,  here,  have  eaten  heartily  of  them.  The  experi- 
ence is  that  one  or  two  members  of  each  family  are  made  sick,  though 
in  two  families,  who  have  several  times  eaten  them,  no  one  was  made 
sick.  I  enjoy  them  immensely,  and  never  feel  any  the  worse  for  eating 
them.  I  doubt  if  we  have  a  finer-flavored  fungus.  The  meat  is  simply 
delicious.  One  fairy  ring  yields  a  bushel." 

Prof.  W.  S.  Carter,  University  of  Texas,  Galveston,  reported  to  me 
(and  sent  specimens  of  L.  Morganii)  the  poisoning  of  three  laboring 
men  from  eating  this  fungus.  They  were  seriously  sick,  but  recovered. 

The  conclusion  is  inevitable  that  this  green-spored  Lepiota  contains  a 
poison  which  violently  attacks  some  persons,  yet  is  harmless  upon  others. 

I  have  not  had  opportunity  to  test  it.  It  should  be  tested  with  great 
caution.  (See  Supplement,  pages  730  and  738.) 

CLYPEOLA'RII.    Clypeus,  a  shield.    Ring  fixed;  stem  sheathed,  etc. 

L.  Frie'sii  Lasch. — in  honor  of  Fries.  Pileus  fleshy,  soft,  lacerated 
into  appressed  tomentose  scales.  Stem  hollow,  with  a  webby  pith,  sub- 
bulbous,  scaly.  Ring  superior,  pendulous,  equal.  Gills  subremote, 
linear,  crowded,  branched.  Fries. 

Pileus  fleshy  but  rather  thin,  convex  or  nearly  plane,  clothed  with  a 
soft,  tawny  or  brownish-tawny  down,  which  breaks  up  into  appressed, 
often  subconfluent  scales,  the  disk  rough  with  small  acute,  erect  scales. 
Flesh  soft,  white.  Grills  narrow,  crowded,  free,  white,  some  of  them 
forked.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  subbulbous,  hollow, 
colored  like  the  pileus  below  the  ring,  and  there  clothed  with  tomentose 
fibrils  which  sometimes  form  floccose  or  tomentose  scales,  white  and 
powdered  above.  Ring  well  developed,  flabby,  white  above,  tawny 
and  floccose-scaly  below.  Spores  7-8x3-4;*. 

Plant  2-5  in.  high.     Pileus   1-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-5  lines  thick. 

Catskill  mountains  and  East  Worcester.     July  to  September. 

\  have  quoted  the  description  of  this  species  as  it  is  found  in  Epicri- 

39 


Agaricaceae 

Lepiota.  sis,  because  the  American  plant  which  I  have  referred  to  it  does  not  in 
all  respects  agree  with  this  description,  but  comes  so  near  it  that  it  can 
scarcely  be  specifically  distinct.  In  the  American  plant,  so  far  as  I 
have  seen  it,  erect,  acute  scales  are  always  present,  especially  on  the 
disk,  and  the  down  of  the  pileus  does  not  always  break  up  into  distinct 
areas  or  scales.  Neither  is  the  stem  usually  scaly,  but  rather  clothed 
with  soft  tomentose  or  almost  silky  fibrils.  The  gills  are  crowded  and 
some  of  them  are  forked.  At  the  furcations  there  are  slight  depressions 
which  interrupt  the  general  level  of  the  edges,  and  give  them  the  ap- 
pearance of  having  been  eaten  by  insects.  The  plant  has  a  slight  odor, 
especially  when  cut  or  bruised.  Peck,  35th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Remarks  under  L.  acute*squamosa  apply  to  L.  Friesii,  which  Fries 
himself  doubts  being  distinct  from  the  first.  The  plants  vary  greatly  in 
size,  color  and  habitat.  The  name — acutesquamosa— carries  a  descrip- 
tive meaning  with  it  that  L.  Friesii  does  not. 

It  does  not  appear  to  have  been  reported  except  by  Professor  Peck, 
but  probably  appears  as  L.  acutesquamosa  in  other  lists. 

The  edible  qualities  are  excellent. 

L.  acutesquamo'sa  Wein. — acutus,  sharp;  squama,  a  scale.  Pileus 
fleshy,  obtuse,  at  first  hairy-floccose,  then  bristly  with  erect,  acute, 
rough  scales.  Stem  somewhat  stuffed,  stout,  bulbous,  powdered  above 
the  moderate-sized  ring.  Gills  approximate,  lanceolate,  simple.  Fries. 

PileilS  convex  or  nearly  plane,  obtuse  or  broadly  subumbonate, 
clothed  with  a  soft  tawny  or  brownish-tawny  tomentum,  which  usually 
breaks  up  into  imperfect  areas  or  squamae,  rough  with  erect,  acute  scales, 
which  are  generally  larger  and  more  numerous  on  the  disk.  Gills  close, 
free,  white  or  yellowish.  Stem  equal,  hollow  or  stuffed  with  webby  fila- 
ments, subbulbous.  Spores  about  7x3—4/4. 

Woods  and  conservatories.  Buffalo,  G.  W.  Clinton;  Albany,  A.  F. 
Chat  field;  Adirondack  mountains  and  Brewertown,  Peck. 

The  form  found  in  the  hot-houses  seems  to  have  the  tomentum  of  the 
pileus  less  dense  and  the  erect  scales  more  numerous  than  in  the  form 
growing  in  woods.  The  annulus  is  frequently  lacerated.  In  the  speci- 
mens of  the  woods  the  erect  scales  are  sometimes  blackish  in  color,  and 
they  then  contrast  quite  conspicuously  with  the  tawny  or  brownish- 
tawny  tomentum  beneath  them.  They  vary  in  size  and  shape.  Some 
resemble  pointed  papillae,  others,  being  more  elongated,  are  almost 

40 


Leucosporse 

spine-like.     These  are  sometimes  curved.     They  are  generally  larger  Lepiota. 
and  more  numerous  on  the   disk  than  elsewhere,  and  often  they  are 
wholly  wanting  on  the  margin.     Peck,  35th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Philadelphia,  1897,  on  lawn  and  growing  from  trunk  of  a  maple 
tree;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  mixed  woods.  Mcllvaine. 

I  first  saw  specimens  of  L.  acutesquamosa  when  sent  to  me  by  Miss 
Lydia  M.  Patchen,  President  Westfield  Toadstool  Club.  It  was  later 
found  by  myself  and  tested.  Specimens  were  sent  to  Professor  Peck 
and  identified  as  L.  acutesquamosa. 

Caps  and  stems  brownish-purple.  The  pointed  squamules  or  tufts 
have  dark-brown  points,  shaded  to  a  delicate  purple  at  base.  Gills 
light,  faint  flesh-color.  Veil  is  silky,  transparent,  beautiful,  quite  tena- 
cious— stretching  until  cap  is  well  expanded,  persistent,  though  at  times 
fugacious.  Smell  like  stewed  mushrooms.  The  caps  are  of  excellent 
substance  and  flavor. 

L.  his'pida  Lasch. — rough.  Pileus  2-3  in.  across.  Flesh  thin, 
white,  unchangeable;  hemispherical  then  expanded,  umbonate,  tomen- 
tose  or  downy  at  first  from  the  remains  of  the  universal  veil ;  during 
expansion  the  down  becomes  broken  up  into  small,  spreading,  scaly 
points,  which  eventually  disappear,  umber-brown,  sometimes  with  a 
tawny  tinge.  Gills  free  but  near  to  the  stem,  the  collar  of  the  pileus 
prominent  and  sheathing  the  stem,  crowded,  ventricose,  simple,  white. 
Stem  about  3-5  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick,  attenuated  upward,  densely 
squamosely-woolly  up  to  the  superior,  membranaceous,  reflexed  ring, 
dingy-brown,  stem  tubular,  but  fibrillosely  stuffed.  Spores  6— 7x4/u. 
Massee. 

In  margins  of  and  in  open  mixed  woods,  under  pine  trees,  Haddon- 
field,  N.  J.,  July  to  September,  1892.  Quite  plentiful  year  after  year  in 
the  same  places.  The  American  plant  is  taller  than  the  English  species, 
the  stem  reaching  five  inches,  and  the  color  of  the  cap  a  delicate  tawny- 
brown.  Smell  slight,  but  pungent  like  radishes. 

The  whole  fungus  is  tender  and  delicious.  It  is  one  of  the  few  Lepi- 
otae  that  stews  well. 

L.  feli'na  Pers. — belonging  to  a  cat.  Pileus  thin,  bell-shaped  or 
convex,  subumbonate,  adorned  with  numerous  subtomentose  or  floccose 
blackish-brown  scales.  Gills  close,  free,  white.  Stem  slender,  rather 

41 


Agaricaceae 

Lepiota.  long,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  hollow,  clothed  with  soft,  loose, 
floccose  filaments,  brown.  Ring  slight,  evanescent.  Spores  elliptical, 
6-8x4-5/1. 

Plant  2-3.5  in.  high.  Pileus  .5-1.5  in.  broad.  Stem  1-2  lines 
thick. 

Woods.      Adirondack  Mountains.      August  and  September. 

It  is  easily  distinguished  from  A.  rubrotincta  by  the  darker  color  of 
the  scales  of  the  pileus,  by  the  loose  floccose  filaments  that  clothe  the 
brown  stem,  by  the  fugacious  ring  and  the  smaller  spores.  Peck,  35th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Dot. 

The  caps  compare  favorably  with  other  Lepiotae  in  substance  and 
flavor. 

L.  crista'ta  A.  and  S. — crista,  a  tuft,  crest.  Pileus  thin,  bell-shaped 
or  convex,  then  nearly  plane,  obtuse,  at  first  with  an  even  reddish  or 
reddish-brown  surface,  then  white  adorned  with  reddish  or  reddish- 
brown  scales  formed  by  the  breaking  up  of  the  cuticle,  the  central  part 
or  disk  colored  like  the  scales.  Gills  close,  free,  white.  Stem  slender, 
hollow,  equal,  smooth  or  silky-fibrillose  below  the  ring,  whitish.  Rin^ 
small,  white.  Spores  oblong  or  narrowly  subelliptical,  5-7x3-4/1. 

Plant  1-2  in.  high.     Pileus  .5-1.5  in.  broad.     Stem  1-2  lines  thick. 

Grassy  places  and  borders  of  woods.     June  to  September. 

This  species  is  easily  known  by  its  small  size  and  the  crested  appear- 
ance of  the  white  pileus,  an  appearance  produced  by  the  orbicular  un- 
ruptured  portion  of  the  cuticle  that  remains  like  a  colored  spot  on  the 
disk.  The  fragments  or  scales  are  more  close  near  this  central  part  and 
more  distant  from  each  other  toward  the  margin,  where  they  are  often 
wholly  wanting.  The  scales  are  sometimes  very  small  and  almost  gran- 
ular. In  very  wet  weather  the  margin  of  the  pileus  in  this  and  some 
other  species  becomes  upturned  or  reflexed.  Peck,  35th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Found  in  Woodland  Cemetery,  Philadelphia.  June  to  September, 
1897.  Mcllvaine. 

Scales  were  appressed  and  slightly  tinged  with  brown,  often  very 
small.  Caps  of  same,  upturned  and  bare  near  margin.  Taste  sweet, 
slightly  like  new  meal.  Odor  strong. 

Cooked  it  is  of  good  consistency  and  pleasing  to  taste. 

42 


Leucosporae 

L.  alluvi'naPk. — alluvies,  the  over-flowing  of  a  river.  Pileus  thin,  Lepiota. 
convex  or  plane,  reflexed  on  the  margin,  white,  adorned  with  minute 
pale-yellow  hairy  or  fibrillose  scales.  Grills  thin,  close,  free,  white  or 
yellowish.  Stem  slender,  fibrillose,  whitish  or  pallid,  slightly  thickened 
at  the  base.  Ring  slight,  subpersistent,  often  near  the  middle  of  the 
stem.  Spores  elliptical,  6-7x4-5^. 

Plant  1-2  in.  high.    Pileus  .5-1  in.  broad.    Stem  1-1.5  lmes  thick. 

Alluvial  soil,  among  weeds.      Albany.      July. 

In  the  fresh  plant  the  scales  are  of  a  pale  yellow  or  lemon  color,  but 
in  drying  they  and  the  whole  pileus  take  a  deeper  rich  yellow  hue.  The 
ring  is  generally  remote  from  the  pileus,  sometimes  even  below  the 
middle  of  the  stem.  Peck,  35th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

In  1897,  I  found  it  growing  among  weeds  on  lot  near  University  of 
Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia.  Seemingly  it  is  a  city  resident. 

The  taste  and  smell  are  pleasant.  Cooked  it  is  tender  and  savory. 
Both  stems  and  caps  are  good. 

L.  metulse'spora  B.  and  Br. — metula,  an  obelisk.  Pileus  thin,  bell- 
shaped  or  convex,  subumbonate,  at  first  with  a  uniform  pallid  or  brown- 
ish surface,  which  soon  breaks  up  into  small  brownish  scales,  the  margin 
more  or  less  striate,  often  appendiculate  with  fragments  of  the  veil. 
Gills  close,  free,  white.  Stem  slender,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  up- 
ward, hollow,  adorned  with  soft  floccose  scales  or  filaments,  pallid. 
Ring  slight,  evanescent.  Spores  long,  subfusiform. 

Plant  2-3.5  in.  high.  Pileus  .5-1  -5  in-  broad.  Stem  1-2  lines 
thick. 

Woods.      Adirondack  mountains.     August  and  September. 

This  species  occurs  with  us  in  the  same  localities  as  L.  felina,  which 
it  very  much  resembles  in  size,  shape  and  general  characters,  differing 
only  in  color,  the  striate  margin  of  the  pileus  and  the  character  of  the 
spores. 

The  species  has  a  wide  range,  having  been  found  in  Ceylon,  England, 
Alabama  and  Kentucky.  Peck,  35th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

This  has  not  been  elsewhere  noted  in  the  United  States,  probably 
from  neglect  of  the  spore  characters,  being  reported  as  L.  clypeolaria. 

New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania.     Mcllvaine, 


43 


Agaricaceee 

ANNULO'SI.     Ring  large,  fixed;  stem  not  sheathed. 

Lepiota.  L.  lioloseri'cea  Fr.  Gr. — entire,  silken.  PileilS  3  in.  and  more 
broad,  whitish  or  clay-white,  fleshy ,  soft,  convex  then  expanded,  rather 
plane,  obtuse,  floccoso-silky ,  somewhat  fibrillose,  becoming  even,  fragile, 
disk  by  no  means  gibbous ;  and  wholly  of  the  same  color ;  margin  in- 
volute when  young.  Flesh  soft,  white.  Stem  2)^-4  in.  long,  %  in. 
and  more  thick,  solid,  bulbous  and  not  rooted  at  the  base,  soft,  fragile, 
silky-fibrillose,  whitish.  Ring  superior,  membranaceous,  large,  soft, 
pendulous,  the  margin  again  ascending.  Gills  wholly  free,  broad, 
ventricose,  crowded,  becoming  pale-white.  Fries. 

A  species  well  marked  from  all  others.     Inodorous. 

On  soil  in  flower  beds. 

Spores  elliptical,  7-8x5/4  Massee;  6x9/A  W.G.S. 

Wisconsin,  Bundy;  Minnesota,  Johnson. 

Considered  esculent  in  Europe. 

L.  Vittadi'ni  Fr. — in  honor  of  the  Italian  mycologist.  PileuS  3-4 
in.  across.  Flesh  4-6  lines  thick  at  the  disk,  becoming  very  thin  at 
the  margin,  white;  convex  then  plane,  obtuse  or  gibbous,  densely 
covered  with  small,  erect,  wart-like  scales,  altogether  whitish.  Gills 
free  but  rather  close  to  the  stem,  3-4  lines  broad,  rounded  in  front, 
thickish,  ventricose,  with  a  greenish  tinge.  Stem  2/^-3)2  in.  long, 
up  to  %  in.  thick,  cylindrical,  with  numerous  concentric  rings  of  squar- 
rose  scales,  up  to  the  superior,  large  ring;  whitish,  or  the  edges  of  the 
scales  often  tipped  with  red,  solid.  Fries. 

In  pastures,  etc. 

Intermediate  between  Lepiota  and  Amanita. 

Noted  by  Fries  as  poisonous.  It  may  or  may  not  be,  but  as  a  matter 
of  precaution  it  is  described.  A  large  species,  pure  white,  extremely 
beautiful. 

Massachusetts,  Farlow. 

L.  nauci'na  Fr.  No  translation  applicable.  Pileus  i-i  %  in.  broad, 
white,  the  disk  of  the  same  color,  fleshy,  soft,  gibbous  or  obtusely  um- 
bonate  when  flattened,  even,  the  thin  ctiticle  splitting  up  into  granules. 
Stem  1-^-3  in.  long,  stuffed,  at  length  somewhat  hollow,  but  without 
a  definite  tube,  attenuated  upward  from  the  thickened  base,  fibrillose, 

44 


PLATE  XV. 


r- 
m 
2 

O 

H 


c 

O 
Z 

O 

D 
m 

C/D 


Leucosporee 

unspotted,  white.     Ring  superior,   tender,  but  persistent,  adhering  to  Lepiota. 
the  stem,  at  length  reflexed.     Gills  free,  approximate,  crowded,  ventri- 
cose,  soft,  white. 

There  is  a  prominent  collar,  as  in  the  Clypeolarii,  embracing  the  stem. 
Stature  and  appearance  of  L.  excoriata,  but  commonly  smaller,  the 
superior  ring  adfixed,  etc.  Fries. 

Spores  subglobose,  6-7/u.  Massee. 

L.  naucina  Fr.  is  the  European  species  which  has  its  American  coun- 
terpart in  L.  naucinoides  Pk.  The  variations  in  the  American  species 
are  noted  under  L.  naucinoides. 

As  Amanita  phalloides — in  its  white  form — the  poisonous  white  Ama- 
nita,  resembles  L.  naucina  or  L.  naucinoides  in  some  stages  of  its  growth 
and  may  be  confounded  with  it,  careful  note  should  be  taken  of  their  ex- 
ternal differences.  In  L.  naucinoides  the  bulb  and  stem  are  continuous, 
each  passing  into  the  other  imperceptibly;  in  A.  phalloides  the  junc- 
tion of  stem  and  bulb  is  abrupt  and  remains  so,  and  the  bulb  is  more 
or  less  enwrapped  in  the  volva.  The  ring  is  also  larger  than  in  L.  nau- 
cinoides and  is  pendulous,  and  the  gills  are  permanently  white.  A  cer- 
tain means  of  distinguishing  between  them  is  by  the  application  of  heat 
as  in  cooking.  On  toasting  both  it  will  be  found  that  the  gills  of  the 
Amanita  remain  white,  but  those  of  the  Lepiota  turn  quickly  brown. 

L.  naucinoi'des  Pk.  No  translation  applicable.  (Plates  XV,  XII, 
fig.  2,  p.  32.)  Pileus  soft,  smooth,  white  or  snowy-white.  Gills  free, 
white,  slowly  changing  with  age  to  a  dirty  pinkish-brown  or  smoky- 
brown  color.  Stem  ringed,  slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  colored  like 
the  pileus.  Spores  subelliptical,  uninucleate,  white,  8-10  long  xS-8/* 
broad.  Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Kansas,  Cragin;  Wisconsin,  Bundy;  New  Jersey,  Ellis;  Iowa,  Mac- 
bride;  New  York,  Peck,  23d,  29th,  35th  Rep.;  Indiana,  H.I.  Miller, 
Dr.  J.  R.  Weist. 

L.  naucinoides  Pk.  is  the  American  counterpart  of  L.  naucina  Fr., 
a  European  species,  excepting  that  the  spores  of  the  latter  are  described 
as  globose.  The  caps  are  ovate  when  young  and  usually  from  I  /£—  3  in. 
across  when  expanded,  but  occasionally  reach  4  in.,  smooth,  but 
frequently  rough  or  minutely  cracked  in  the  center,  white  or  varying 
shades  of  white  deepening  in  color  at  the  summit.  In  a  rare  form  var. 
squamo'sa,  large,  thick  scales  occur  which  are  caused  by  the  breaking 

45 


Agaricaceae 

Lepiota.  up  of  the  cap  surface.  When  young  the  gills  are  white  or  faintly  yellow, 
becoming  pinkish  or  dull  brown  in  age.  The  pinkish  hue  is  not  always 
apparent.  The  outer  edge  of  the  veil  or  ring  is  thickest;  usually  it  is 
firmly  attached  to  the  stem,  but  movable  rings  are  frequently  noticed. 
When  the  plant  ages  the  ring  is  often  missing,  but  traces  of  it  are  always 
discernible.  Stem  rarely  equal,  often  it  is  distinctly  bulbous,  generally 
tapering  upward  from  a  more  or  less  enlarged  base,  hollow  when  fully 
grown,  until  then  containing  cottony  fibers  within  the  cavity  or  appearing 
solid,  2-3  in.  long,  %—%  in.  thick. 

Its  habitat  is  similar  to  that  of  the  common  mushroom — lawns, 
pastures,  grassy  places — though  unlike  the  latter  it  is  found  in  woods. 
Until  thoroughly  acquainted  with  it,  specimens  found  in  woods  and 
supposed  to  be  L.  naucinoides  should  not  be  eaten.  An  Amanita  might 
be  mistaken  for  it.  It  is  readily  distinguishable  from  the  common 
mushroom  and  its  allies  by  the  color  of  the  gills  and  spores  which  are 
white,  and  differences  in  stem  and  veil. 

It  is  found  from  July  until  after  hard  frosts.  It  was  first  reported 
edible  by  Professor  Peck  in  1875,  under  the  name  of  Agaricus  naucinus. 

The  L.  naucinoides  is  rewarding  the  favor  with  which  it  has  been 
received  as  an  esculent,  it  being  equal  to  the  common  mushroom  and 
quite  free  from  insects.  Large  crops  of  it  are  reported  from  all  over  the 
country,  and  from  many  sections  it  is  told  of  as  a  stranger.  During 
1897-98  the  author  has  found  it  in  plenty  upon  ground  familiar  to  him 
for  years,  upon  which  it  had  not  previously  shown  itself.  The  common 
mushroom  must  look  to  its  laurels. 

Its  cultivation  as  a  marketable  crop  is  possible  and  probable. 

L.  cepsesti'pes  Sow. — cepa,  an  onion;  stipes,  stem.  (Plate  XII,  fig. 
3,  p.  32.)  Pileus  thin,  at  first  ovate,  then  bell-shaped  or  expanded, 
umbonate,  soon  adorned  with  numerous  minute  brownish  scales,  which 
are  often  granular  or  mealy,  folded  into  lines  on  the  margin,  white  or 
yellow,  the  umbo  darker.  Grills  thin,  close,  free,  white,  becoming 
dingy  with  age  or  in  drying.  Stem  rather  long,  tapering  toward 
the  apex,  generally  enlarged  in  the  middle  or  near  the  base,  hollow. 
Ring  thin,  subpersistent.  Spores  subelliptical,  with  a  single  nucleus, 
8-10x5-8/4. 

Plant  often  cespitose,  2-4  in.  high.  Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.  Stem 
2-3  lines  thick. 

46 


Leucosporae 

Rich  ground  and  decomposing  vegetable  matter.      Also  in  graperies  Lepiota. 
and  conservatories.      Buffalo,  G.   W.  Clinton;  Albany,  A.  F.  Chatfield. 
Peck,  35th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores   elliptical,  7-8x4/1  Massee;  8x4^  W.G.S.;  8-10x5-81".  Peck. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine;  New  York,  Mrs.  E. 
C.  Anthony;  Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller.  July  to  October. 

Whoever  has  seen  the  seed-stalks  of  an  onion  knows  the  shape  from 
which  this  fungus  takes  its  name.  The  dense  clusters  are  graceful, 
dainty,  and  contain  many  individuals  of  all  ages — from  the  very  young 
with  egg-shaped  heads,  like  pigmy  C.  comatus,  to  the  fluff-capped  eld- 
est, willowy  and  fair  to  look  upon.  The  out-door  kind  soon  droops 
when  matured ;  the  young  plants  of  a  cluster  will  remain  fresh  for 
several  days  after  taken  from  their  habitat.  Stems  in  these  tufts  are 
often  quill-shaped,  and  the  striations  on  the  cap  margins  are  shorter 
than  those  on  their  indoor  cousins.  These  grow  in  hot-houses  and  sta- 
bles. One  of  the  two  forms  has  a  yellow  cap,  the  other  is  white  and 
fair. 

These  forms  have  often  come  to  my  table  as  a  pleasant  winter  sur- 
prise. Children  in  the  hot-houses  of  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  watched  for 
its  appearance  among  the  bedded  plants,  sure  of  a  present  when  they 
brought  me  a  meal  of  it.  Both  the  white  and  yellow  varieties  were 
equally  enjoyed. 

The  entire  fungus  is  tender  and  delicious  cooked  in  any  way. 

L.  farino'sa  Pk. — farina,  meal.  Pileus  thin,  rather  tough,  flexi- 
ble, at  first  globose  or  ovate,  then  bell-shaped  or  convex,  covered  with 
a  soft,  dense,  white  veil  of  mealy  down,  which  soon  ruptures,  forming 
irregular,  easily-detersible  scales,  more  persistent  and  sometimes  brown- 
ish on  the  disk.  Flesh  white,  unchangeable.  Gills  close,  free,  white, 
minutely  downy  on  the  edge.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward > 
somewhat  thickened  at  the  base,  slightly  mealy,  often  becoming  gla- 
brous, hollow  or  with  a  cottony  pith  above,  solid  at  the  base,  white, 
pallid  or  straw-colored,  the  ring  lacerated,  somewhat  appendiculate  on 
the  margin  of  the  pileus,  evanescent.  Spores  subovate,  10-13x81*. 

Pileus  1.5-2.5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  2-4  lines  thick. 

Mushroom  beds  in  a  conservatory,  Boston,  Mass.  March.  Com- 
municated by  E.  J.  Forster. 

This  species  is  related  to  L.  cepaestipes,  from  which  it  may  be  dis- 

47 


Agaricaceae 

Lepiota.  tinguished  by  its  pileus,  which  is  not  folded  on  the  margin,  and  by  its 
larger  spores.  It  is  edible.  It  is  very  distinct  from  Amanita  farinosa. 
Peck,  43d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Ohio,  Lloyd,  Prof.  William  Miller  (Lloyd  Myc.  Notes). 

L.  Americana  Pk.  (Plate  XII,  fig.  i,  p. 32.  Plate  XVa.)  Pileus 
at  first  ovate,  then  convex  or  expanded,  urnbonate,  scaly,  white,  the 
umbo  and  scales  reddish  or  reddish-brown.  Gills  close,  free,  white. 
Stem  somewhat  thickened  at  or  a  little  above  the  base,  hollow,  bearing 
a  ring,  white.  Spores  subelliptical,  uninucleate,  8-iox5-8/u,. 

The  American  lepiota  belongs  to  the  same  genus  as  the  parasol 
mushroom  and  the  Smooth  lepiota.  It  has  one  character  in  which  it 
differs  from  all  other  species  of  Lepiota.  The  whole  plant  when  fresh 
is  white,  except  the  umbo  and  the  scales  of  the  cap,  but  in  drying  it 
assumes  a  dull  reddish  or  smoky-red  color.  By  this  character  it  is 
easily  recognized. 

In  the  very  young  plant  the  cap  is  somewhat  egg-shaped  and  nearly 
covered  by  the  thin  reddish-brown  cuticle,  but  as  the  plant  enlarges  the 
cuticle  separates  and  forms  the  scales  that  adorn  the  cap.  On  the 
central  prominence  or  umbo,  however,  it  usually  remains  entire.  The 
margin  of  the  cap  is  thin  and  is  generally  marked  with  short  radiating 
lines  or  striations.  The  gills  do  not  quite  reach  the  stem  and  are,  there- 
fore, free  from  it.  Sometimes  they  are  connected  with  each  other  at  or 
near  their  inner  extremity  by  transverse  branches.  They  are  a  little 
broader  near  the  margin  of  the  cap  than  at  their  inner  extremity.  The 
stem  affords  a  peculiar  feature.  It  is  often  enlarged  towards  the  base 
and  then  abruptly  narrowed  below  the  enlargement,  as  in  the  Onion- 
stemmed  lepiota.  In  some  instances,  however,  the  enlargement  is  not 
contracted  below  and  then  the  stem  gradually  tapers  from  the  base  up- 
ward. The  stem  is  hollow  and  usually  furnished  with  a  collar,  but  some- 
times this  is  thin  and  may  disappear  with  advancing  age.  Wounds  or 
bruises  are  apt  to  assume  brownish-red  hues. 

The  caps  vary  in  width  from  1-4  in.  ;  the  stems  are  from  3-5  in. 
long,  and  2-5  lines  thick.  Sometimes  plants  attain  even  larger 
dimensions  than  these.  The  plants  grow  singly  or  in  tufts  in  grassy 
ground  or  on  old  stumps.  They  may  be  found  from  July  to  October. 

In  flavor  this  species  is  not  much  inferior  to  the  parasol  mushroom, 
but  when  cooked  in  milk  or  cream  it  imparts  its  own  reddish  color  to 

48 


PLATE  XVA. 


r- 
m 

15 

O 

H 


O 
> 

2 


Leucosporse 

the  material  in  which  it  is  cooked.     It  is,  however,  a  fine  addition  to  Lepiota. 
our  list  of  esculent  species.     Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Dot. 

I  found  several  on  a  decaying  willow  trunk,  and  on  the  ground  beside 
it,  in  Philadelphia.  In  July,  1898,  large  quantities,  often  clustered, 
grew  under  the  great,  open  auditorium  of  the  Pennsylvania  Chautauqua, 
at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  from  ground  covered  with  crushed  limestone. 

The  caps  are  meaty  and  excellent  in  flavor.  They  should  be  broiled 
or  fried. 

GRANULOSI.     Pileus  granular  or  warty.     Stem  sheathed,  etc. 

L.  granillo'sa  Batsch. — granosus,  full  of  grains.  Pileus  thin,  con- 
vex or  nearly  plane,  sometimes  almost  umbonate,  rough,  with  numer- 
ous granular  or  branny  scales,  often  radiately  wrinkled,  rusty-yellow  or 
reddish-yellow,  often  growing  paler  with  age.  Flesh  white  or  reddish- 
tinged.  Gills  close,  rounded  behind  and  usually  slightly  adnexed, 
white.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  stuffed  or  hollow, 
white  above  the  ring,  colored  and  adorned  like  the  pileus  below  it. 
Ring  slight,  evanescent.  Spores  elliptical  4-5x3-4^. 

Plant  1-2.5  in-  high-  Pileus  1-2.5  in-  broad.  Stem  1-3  lines 
thick.  Woods,  copses  and  waste  places.  Common.  August  to  October. 

This  is  a  small  species  with  a  short  stem  and  granular  reddish-yellow 
pileus,  and  gills  slightly  attached  to  the  stem,  a  character  by  which  it 
differs  from  all  the  preceding.  The  ring  is  very  small  and  fugacious, 
being  little  more  than  the  abrupt  termination  to  the  coating  of  the  stem. 
Peck,  35th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Hot. 

Spores  5-6x3//.  B.;  3x4/4  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  4-5x3-4^  Peck. 

Var.  rufes'cens  B.  and  Br.  Pure  white  at  first,  then  partially  turning 
red  and  in  drying  acquiring  everywhere  a  reddish  tint. 

Var.  atbida  Pk.      Persistently  white. 

Though  small  many  plants  grow  neighboring.  Being  fleshy  for  their 
size,  and  of  pleasing  quality,  they  well  repay  gathering.  Remove  stems. 

Open  woods,  Angora,  West  Philadelphia;  Haddonfield,  New  Jersey, 
Mcllvaine. 

A.    CUTICLE  VISCID.    NEITHER  SCALY  NOR  WARTY. 

L.  delica'ta  Fr. — delicatus,  delicate.     Up  to  I  K  in.  across,  reddish, 
becoming  yellowish  toward  margin.      Flesh  well  proportioned  to  cap, 
4  49 


Agaricaceee 

Lepiota.  convex,  obscurely  umbonate,  glabrous,  slightly  viscid.  Stem  I  K-2  in. 
long,  very  thin,  but  covered  with  dense  downy  scales,  equal,  lighter 
than  cap.  Ring  usually  entire,  membranaceous,  fluffy  from  scales. 
Gills  free,  crowded,  ventricose,  white. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  January,   1896-97,  in  hot-houses.     Mcllvaine. 
A  delicate,  delicious  Lepiota.      Though  small,  it  is  meaty.      Its  ap- 
pearance in  hot-houses  (it  is  found  in  woods)  insures  a  crop  at  a  time  of 
year  when  other  species  are  not  plentiful,  and  when  anything  edible  in 
the  toadstool  line  is  most  welcome  to  their  lovers. 

L.  lenticula'ris  Lasch. — lenticula,  a  lentil.  Pileus  at  first  globose, 
then  convex,  even,  naked,  pinkish-tan  color.  Flesh  thick,  spongy, 
white.  Gills  close  to  stem,  but  free  from  it,  ventricose,  crowded, 
whitish.  Stem  4—6  in.  high,  thick,  equal  or  swollen  at  base,  solid  but 
spongy,  more  or  less  covered  with  scales;  above  the  ring  it  is  frequently 
covered  with  drops  of  water  more  or  less  green,  which  leave  spots  when 
they  dry.  Veil  superior  and  very  large. 

Pileus  3-4  in.  across.  Stem  4-6  in.  long,  %  in.  and  more  thick.  In 
damp  woods. 

Redman's  Woods,  Haddonfield,  N.  J.    September,  1894.    Mcllvaine. 

This  species  is  included  in  Amanita  by  Fries  and  Stevenson.  Massee 
places  it  in  Lepiota.  In  the  dozen  or  more  specimens  I  have  found, 
there  was  no  trace  of  a  volva,  even  when  very  young.  I  tested  it  care- 
fully and  at  one  time  ate  three  good-sized  caps  without  experiencing 
any  indications  of  poison.  I  have  seen  it  during  but  one  season  and 
not  then  (at  one  time)  in  sufficient  quantity  to  make  a  meal  off  it. 
Cooked  it  has  a  slight  oheesy  flavor  which  is  pleasant. 

L.  illi'nita  Fr. — illino,  to  smear  over.  PileilS  rather  thin,  soft,  at 
first  ovate,  then  campanulate  or  expanded,  subumbonate,  smooth,  white, 
very  viscid  or  glutinous,  even  or  striate  on  the  margin.  Gills  close, 
free,  white.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  stuffed  or  hollow, 
viscid,  white.  Spores  broadly  elliptical,  5x4/1,  broad. 

Plant  2-4  in.  high.     Pileus  1-2.5  in.  broad.    Stem  2-3  lines  thick. 

Thin  or  open  woods.      Adirondack  mountains.     July  to  September. 

This  is  a  smooth  white  species  with  the  stem  and  pileus  clothed  with 
a  clear  viscid  or  glutinous  veil.  The  margin  of  the  pileus  is  often  even, 
but  the  typical  form  of  the  species  has  it  striate.  The  flesh  is  soft  and 

50 


JJeucosporee 

white.      The  species  may  be  distinguished  from  the  viscid  white  species  Lepiota. 
of  Hygrophorus  by  the  free,  not  adnate  nor  decurrent  lamellae.     Peck, 
35th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Springton  and  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  1887-1897.     Mcllvaine. 

Not  yet  found  by  me  in  quantity.  Several  specimens  eaten  were  of 
good  flavor. 

L.  rilglllo'sa  Pk.  Pileus  thin,  submembranaceous,  broadly  con- 
vex or  nearly  plane,  umbonate,  rugulose,  widely  striate  on  the  margin, 
whitish.  Lamellae  thin,  narrow,  close,  free,  whitish.  Stem  short, 
equal,  slightly  silky,  whitish,  the  annulus  thin,  persistent,  white.  Spores 
elliptic,  7-5/i  long,  4/4  broad. 

Pileus    12-20  mm.  broad.      Stem  about  2.5  cm.  long,  2  mm.  thick. 

Moist  grassy  places  under  trees.  Washington,  D.  C.  July.  Mrs. 
E.  M .  Williams.  Perhaps  in  the  fresh  state  the  pileus  is  not  as  dis- 
tinctly rugulose  as  when  dry.  Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  27, 
January,  1900. 


Agaricaceaa 


ARMILLA'RIA    Fr. 

Armilla,3i  ring. 

Armuiaria.       Pileus  and  Stem  continuous.     Veil  partial,  sometimes  only  indicated 

(Plate  XVII.)  by  the  scales  which  clothe  the  stem 

terminating  in  the  form  of  a  ring. 
Spores  white.  On  the  ground  or  on 
stumps. 

In  the  young  plant  the  veil  extends 
from  the  stem  to  the  pileus,  some- 
times forming  scaly  patches  upon  it  ; 
below  the  ring  it  is  attached  to  the 
stem  often  in  scales. 

But  for  the  presence  of  the  ring 
the  species  of  this  genus  could  be  dis- 

tributed in  Tricholoma,  Clitocybe  and  Collybia,  with  which  they  agree 
in  all  other  characters. 

In  Amanita  and  Lepiota,  the  other  ringed  genera  of  the  white-spored 
series,  the  flesh  of  the  stem  and  pileus  is  not  continuous;  and  their  stems 
are  therefore  easily  separated.  Amanita  is  also  distinguished  by  its 


ARMILLARIA  MELLEA. 


ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

TRICHOLOMATA.      Page  52. 

Gills  sinuately  adnexed,  stem  fleshy,  ring  often  evanescent.     (Like 
Tricholoma.) 

CLITOCYBE.     Page  55- 

Gills  not  sinuate,  more  or  less  decurrent,  narrowed  behind;  ring  per- 
manent.    (Resembling  Clitocybe.) 

COLLYBLE.     Page  58. 

Gills  adnate,   equal  behind  ;    stem  somewhat  cartilaginous  outside  ; 
ring  permanent.     (Resembling  Collybia.) 

I.  —  TRICHOLOMATA.     Gills  sinuately  adnexed,  etc. 

A.  robus'ta  A.  and  S.  —  robustus,  robust,  sturdy.    Substance  of  entire 
plant  compact.     Pileus  2-3  in.  across,  varying  in  shades  of  gray  and 

52 


PLATE  XVI. 


Leucosporae 

brown,  scaly,  fibrillose  on  margin,  decreasing  toward  center  or  smooth,  Armillaria. 
convex  or  top-shaped  and  margin  involute  at  first,  expanding.  Flesh 
firm,  very  thick.  Gills  broad,  emarginate,  nearly  free,  crowded,  whitish, 
up  to  >2  in.  broad.  Veil  large,  membranaceous,  sometimes  floccose, 
remaining  adherent  to  the  stem.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  obese,  solid, 
tapering  at  the  base,  brownish-white  and  fibrillose  below  veil,  white  and 
flocculose  above,  flesh  of  stem  continuous  with  that  of  the  cap. 

Stevenson  gives  var.  minor  with  even  cap  with  both  gills  and  ring 
very  narrow. 

Spores  ovoid-spherical.      7/u,.      Q. 

Edible,  Curtis;  District  Columbia,  Mrs.  M.  Fuller. 

In  mixed  woods.  Pennsylvania,  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Mcll- 
vaine. 

The  substance  of  A.  robusta  differs  from  all  other  Armillaria  in  being 
very  compact.  It  is  not  acrid  but  has  a  marked  flavor.  Cut  into  small 
pieces  and  well  cooked  it  makes  an  acceptable  dish.  It  is  best  in 
croquettes  and  patties,  or  served  with  meats. 

A.  viscid'ipes  Pk. — viscidus,  sticky;  pes,  a  foot.  PileilS  fleshy,  com- 
pact, convex  or  nearly  plane,  glabrous,  whitish  with  a  slight  yellowish 
or  reddish-yellow  tint.  Flesh  white,  odor  peculiar,  penetrating,  sub- 
alkaline.  Gills  narrow,  crowded,  sinuate  or  subdecurrent,  whitish. 
Stem  equal,  solid,  viscid  and  slightly  tinged  with  yellow  below  the 
narrow  membranous  ring,  whitish  above.  Spores  elliptical,  8x5/4. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  6-12  lines  thick. 

In  mixed  woods.      Rock  City,  Dutchess  county.      October. 

It  is  a  large  fine  fungus,  easily  known  by  its  white  and  yellowish  hues, 
its  crowded  gills,  viscid  stem  and  peculiar  penetrating  almost  alkaline 
odor.  The  cuticle  of  the  pileus  is  thin  and  soft  to  the  touch,  but  it 
sometimes  cracks  longitudinally  and  is  sometimes  slightly  adorned  with 
innate  fibrils.  A.  dehiscens  is  said  to  have  a  viscid  stem,  but  it  is  also 
squamose  and  the  pileus  is  yellowish-ochraceous.  Peck,  44th  Rep 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Quite  common  in  Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey.     Mcllvaine. 

It  loses  its  strong  odor  when  cooked  and  is  equal  to  other  Armillaria 
in  edibility.  Unless  well  cooked  it  has  a  slight  saponaceous  flavor. 
This  is  easily  overcome  by  a  few  drops  of  lejnon  juice  or  sherry. 

53 


Agaricacese 

Armillaria.  A.  appendicula'ta  Pk. — bearing  an  appendicula  or  small  appendage. 
Pileus  broadly  convex,  glabrous,  whitish,  often  tinged  with  rust  color 
or  brownish  rust  color  on  the  disk.  Flesh  white  or  whitish.  Gills 
close,  rounded  behind,  whitish.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  up- 
ward, solid,  bulbous,  whitish,  the  veil  either  membranous  or  webby, 
white,  commonly  adhering  in  fragments  to  the  margin  of  the  pileus. 
Spores  subelliptical,  8x5/1*,. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-3.5  in.  long;    5-10  lines  thick. 

Auburn,  Ala.      October.      C.  F.  Baker. 

The  general  appearance  of  this  species  is  suggestive  of  Tricholoma 
album,  but  the  presence  of  a  veil  separates  it  from  that  fungus  and  places 
it  in  the  genus  Armillaria.  The  veil,  however,  is  often  slightly  lacer- 
ated or  webby  and  adherent  to  the  margin  of  the  pileus.  Peck,  Bull. 
Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  24. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  Angora,  Pa.  On  decaying  roots  in  ground.  August 
to  November.  Found  plentifully  in  resorts  of  other  Armillaria.  Edi- 
bility the  same.  Mcllvaine. 

A.  pondero'sa  Pk. — ponderosus,  weighty,  ponderous.  Pileus  thick, 
compact,  convex  or  subcampanulate,  smooth,  white  or  yellowish,  the 
naked  margin  strongly  involute  beneath  the  slightly  viscid,  persistent 
veil.  Gills  crowded,  narrow,  slightly  emarginate,  white  inclining  to 
cream  color.  Stem  stout,  subequal,  firm,  solid,  coated  by  the  veil, 
colored  like  the  pileus,  white  and  furfuraceous  above  the  ring.  Flesh 
white.  Spores  nearly  globose,  4;*  in  diameter. 

Plant  4-6  in.  high.     Pileus  4-6  in.  broad.     Stem  about  I  in.  thick, 

Ground  in  woods.      Copake,  Columbia  county.      October. 

The  veil  for  a  long  time  conceals  the  gills,  and  finally  becomes  lacera- 
ted and  adheres  in  shreds  or  fragments  to  the  stem  and  margin  of  the 
pileus.  Peck,  26th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

New  England,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck,  Repts.  26,  29,  41.  West  Vir- 
ginia and  Pennsylvania.  Ground  in  woods.  September  to  November. 
Mcllvaine. 

Professor  Peck  says  in  26th  Report:  "This  species  has  not  been 
found  since  its  discovery  in  1872." 

Where  the  Armillaria  mellea  frequents  I  have  often  found  A.  pon- 
derosa.  It  was  plentiful  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  in  September,  1898. 

54 


Leucosporae 

Young  specimens  are  quite  as  edible  as  A.  mellea,   and  rather  more 
juicy. 

'  II. — CLITOCYB^E.     Gills  not  sinuate,  etc. 

A.  mel'lea  Vahl. — melleus,  of  the  color  of  honey.  (Plate  XVI,  fig.  i, 
p.  52.)  PileilS  adorned  with  minute  tufts  of  brown  or  blackish  hairs, 
sometimes  glabrous,  even  or  when  old  slightly  striate  on  the  margin. 
Gills  adnate  or  slightly  decurrent,  white  or  whitish,  becoming  sordid 
with  age  and  sometimes  variegated  with  reddish-brown  spots.  Stem 
ringed,  at  length  brownish  toward  the  base.  Spores  elliptical,  white, 
8-io/n  long.  Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  9x5-6;*   W.G.S.;  iox8/*  B.;  8-io/u,  Peck. 

The  A.  mellea  is  unusually  prolific  and  is  common  over  the  United 
States  and  Europe.  Specimens  may  be  found  in  the  spring-time,  but 
in  middle  latitudes  it  is  common  from  August  until  after  light  frosts.  It 
is  usually  in  tufts,  some  of  which  contain  scores  of  plants  and  are  showy 
over  ground  filled  with  roots,  or  on  stumps  or  boles  of  decaying  trees. 
It  frequents  dense  woods  and  open  clearings.  I  have  seen  acres  of  dense 
woodland  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  so  covered  with  it  and  its  varieties  that 
but  few  square  yards  were  unoccupied. 

A  description  of  the  typical  A.  mellea  will  rarely  apply  to  any  one 
plant.  A  combination  of  its  variable  features  in  one  description  would 
include  something  of  nearly  every  white-spored  Agaric  under  the  sun. 
Yet  there  is  something  indescribable  about  it  which  once  learned  will 
unerringly  betray  it. 

Its  Caps  vary  from  perfectly  smooth,  through  tufts  of  scales  and  hairs, 
more  or  less  dense,  to  matted  woolliness.  It  may  show  any  one  of  these 
conditions  in  youth  and  be  bald  in  age.  Some  shade  of  yellow  is  the 
prevailing  color,  but  this  will  vary  from  whitish  to  dark-purplish  or 
reddish-brown.  When  water-soaked  it  is  one  color,  when  dry,  another. 
Commonly  the  margins  of  the  Caps  are  striated,  sometimes  they  are 
smooth  as  a  cymbal,  and  not  unlike  one,  have  a  raised  place  or  umbo 
in  the  center.  Flesh  white  or  whitish.  Gills  when  young  are  white  or 
creamy,  usually  running  down  the  stem,  sometimes  slightly  notched  at 
attachment.  They  freckle  in  age  and  lose  their  fair  complexion.  The 
Veil  or  collar  about  the  stem  is  as  variable  as  fashion — thick  and  closely 
woven  or  flimsy  as  gossamer,  or  vanishing  as  the  plant  grows  old.  The 

55 


Agaricaceae 

Armiiiaria.  Stems  may  be  even  as  a  lead  pencil,  or  swollen  like  a  pen-holder,  or 
bulbous  toward  the  base,  or  distorted  by  pressure  in  the  tufts.  It  is  as 
variable  in  color  as  the  cap,  usually  darkening  downward  in  hues  of 
brown.  The  outside  is  firm  and  fibrous,  sometimes  furrowed,  inside 
soft  or  hollow. 

Cap  1-6  in.  across.      Stem  1-6  in.  long,  %-%  in.  thick. 

Var.  obscu'ra  has  the  cap  covered  with  numerous  small  blackish  scales. 

Var.  flava  has  the  cap  yellow  or  reddish-yellow,  but  in  other  respects 
it  is  like  the  type. 

Var.  glabra  has  the  cap  smooth,  otherwise  like  the  type. 

Var.  radica'ta  has  a  tapering,  root-like  prolongation  of  the  stem, 
which  penetrates  the  earth  deeply. 

Var.  bulbd ' sa  has  a  distinctly  bulbous  base  to  the  stem,  and  in  this 
respect  is  the  reverse  of  var.  radicata. 

Professor  Peck  writes:  "Var.  exannulata  (Plate  XVI,  fig.  2,  p.  52) 
has  the  cap  smooth  and  even  on  the  margin,  and  the  stem  tapering  at 
the  base.  The  annulus  is  very  slight  and  evanescent  or  wholly  wanting. 
The  cap  is  usually  about  an  inch  broad,  or  a  little  more,  and  the  plants 
grow  in  clusters,  which  sometimes  contain  forty  or  fifty  individuals.  It 
is  more  common  farther  south  than  it  is  in  our  state  (N.  Y.),  and  is 
reported  to  be  the  most  common  form  in  Maryland.  This  I  call  var. 
exannulata."  From  Dr.  Taylor,  Washington,  D.  C. ;  Indiana,  H.  I. 
Miller. 

To  these  may  be  added  also  var.  al'bida  Pk.  in  which  the  pileus  is 
white  or  whitish. 

A  variety,  perhaps  a  variation  of  var.  bulbosa  was  sent  to  me  by  E. 
B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J.,  and  afterward  found  by  myself  at  Mt. 
Gretna,  Pa.  The  Cap  purplish-brown,  convex,  striate  and  light  on 
margin,  edge  irregular  with  parts  of  veil  attached.  Flesh  white,  very 
thin.  Gills  decurrent,  arcuate,  pinkish-gray.  Stem  stuffed,  fibrous,  white 
above,  dense  floccose  veil,  same  color  as  cap  below,  swollen  toward 
base  which  is  pointed,  sulcate,  white  inside,  closely  clustered  and  some  of 
the  stems  distinctly  bulbous.  Taste  decidedly  unpleasant.  An  intense 
acridity  develops  and  increases  when  the  juices  of  raw  pieces  are  swal- 
lowed, and  the  salivary  glands  are  much  excited.  The  acridity  is  not 
lost  in  cooking.  It  simply  can  not  be  eaten.  Specimens  were  sent  by 
me  to  Professor  Peck  who  referred  it  to  A.  mellea. 

I  have  never  seen  the  abortive  form  of  Clitopilus  abortivus,  though 

56 


Leucosporee 

found  in  many  places  and  in  great  quantity,  showing  any  part  or  trace  ArmUiaria. 
of  the  original  plant.  But  that  a  similar  monstrosity  occurs  upon  A. 
mellea  is  shown  by  individuals  and  parts  of  individuals  of  a  cluster  being 
aborted.  Without  such  positive  proof,  no  one  would  suspect  either  of 
these  odd  formations  to  be  abortive  of  either  C.  abortivus  or  A.  mellea, 
or  any  other  fungus.  I  consider  the  abortive  form  of  A.  mellea  far 
superior  in  substance  and  flavor  to  it  or  any  of  its  varieties. 

The  Armillaria  can  not  be  ranked  among  the  tender  or  high-flavored 
toadstools,  yet  their  abundance,  meaty  caps  and  nourishing  qualities 
place  them  among  our  most  valuable  food  species. 

The  caps  when  chopped  into  small  pieces  make  good  patties  and 
croquettes.  They  have  an  impressive  flavor  of  their  own,  and  offer  an 
esculent  medium  for  seasoning  and  the  gravies  of  various  meats. 

A.  nardos'mia  Ellis — nardosmius,  of  the  odor  of  nardus.  (A  name 
applied  by  the  ancients  to  several  plants,  especially  spica  nardi — spike- 
nard.) Pileus  fleshy,  firm,  thick  and  compact  on  the  disk,  thin  toward 
the  margin,  whitish,  variegated  with  brown  spots,  with  a  thick,  tough 
and  separable  cuticle.  Flesh  white.  Gills  crowded,  subventricose, 
slightly  emarginate,  whitish.  Stem  solid,  fibrous,  not  bulbous,  sheathed 
below  by  the  brown  velvety  veil,  the  ring  narrow,  spreading,  uneven  on 
the  edge.  Spores  subglobose,  6/*  in  diameter. 

Pileus  about  3  in.  broad.     Stem  1.5-3  m-  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Ground  in  woods,  Suffolk  county.  September.  Peck,  43d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Several  specimens  from  sandy  grounds  in  pine  woods,  Haddonfield, 
N.  J.,  were  sent  by  me  to  Professor  Peck  and  were  identified  by  him. 
Plentiful  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  September  to  frost,  1898.  In  mixed 
woods,  on  gravelly  ground.  Eaten  in  quantity  by  several  persons. 
Mcllvaine. 

Cuticle  of  caps  when  dry  breaking  up  into  brownish,  squamulose 
scales,  margin  involute.  Gills  subdecurrent.  Veil  thick,  persistent. 
Stem  short,  subbulbous,  solid.  Flesh  white.  Very  much  resembles  a 
short-stemmed  Lepiota.  Smell  and  taste  strong,  like  almonds.  Disap- 
pears in  cooking. 


Agaricaceee 

III. — COLLYBI/E.    Gills  adnate,  stem  somewhat  cartilaginous. 

ArmUiaria.  A.,  mu'cida  Schrad. — mucidus,  slimy.  Pileus  commonly  shining 
white,  thin,  almost  transparent,  hemispherical  then  expanded,  obtuse, 
more  or  less  radiato-wrinkled,  smeared  over  with  a  thick  tenacious  glu- 
ten;  margin  striate  when  thinner.  Stem  1^—3  in.  long,  1-2  lines  thick 
at  the  apex,  thickened  at  the  base,  stuffed,  thin,  rigid,  curved  ascend- 
ing, smooth,  white,  but  sooty  scaly  at  the  base  when  most  perfectly  de- 
veloped. Ring  inserted  at  the  apex  of  the  stem,  bent  downward  and 
glued  close  to  the  stem,  furrowed,  the  white  border  again  erect,  with  a 
swollen  and  entire  margin,  which  sometimes  becomes  dingy  brown. 
Gills  rounded  behind,  obtuse,  adhering  to  the  stem  and  striato-decurrent, 
distant,  broad,  lax,  mucid,  always  shining  white. 

Very  variable  in  stature,  from  i  in.  (when  of  this  size  the  stem  is 
almost  equal)  to  as  much  as  6  in.  broad.  The  color  of  the  pileus  varies 
gray,  fuliginous,  olivaceous.  The  gills  sometimes  become  yellow,  but 
only  from  disease.  Sometimes  solitary,  sometimes  a  few  are  joined  in 
a  cespitose  manner  at  the  base.  Stevenson. 

Spores  elliptical,  15-16x8-9/1  Massee;   17x14/1*  W.G.S. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Pennsylvania,  Schweinitz;  Mary- 
land, Miss  Banning. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  1882,  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  1891-94,  on 
beech  trees  and  roots.  Mcllvaine. 

Commonly  considered  esculent  in  Europe. 

Dirt  adheres  so  tenaciously  to  it  that  it  is  difficult  to  clean.  This, 
however,  occurs  only  when  the  fungus  grows  from  roots  and  pushes  its 
way  up  through  covering  earth.  When  growing  from  trees  it  is  attractive 
and  of  good  quality. 

Should  be  chopped  fine  and  well  cooked. 


PLATE  XVIII. 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Briscoe  —  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


FIG. 

1-2.    TRICHOLOMA  PERSONATUM 

3.  TRICHOLOMA  RDSSULA. 

4.  THICHOLOMA  TERREUM, 


PAGE.  FIG. 

79  5.    TRICHOLOMA  COLUMBETTA, 

65  6.    TRICHOLOMA  HUMILE, 
71 


PAGE. 

68 
81 


Leucospores 


TRICHOLO'MA  Fr. 

Gr. — a  hair,   a  fringe. 

PileilS  symmetrical,  generally  fleshy,  never  truly  umbilicate,  seldom  Tricholon. 
umbonate.      Veil  absent  or  appearing  only  as  fibrils  or  down  on  the 

margin  of  the  pileus.      Gills  sinuate  _- ^  (Plate  XIX.) 

(the  small  sudden  curve  near  the 
stem  always  apparent  in  the  young 
plant),  sometimes  with  a  slightly  de- 
current  tooth.  Stem  central,  usually 
stout,  fleshy-fibrous,  without  a  bark- 
like  skin.  Flesh  continuous  with 
that  of  the  pileus.  Ring  and  Volva 
absent.  Spores  white  or  dingy. 

But  one  is  known  to  be  poisonous. 
Some  are  acrid  or  unpleasant  in  fla- 
vor. With  one  exception  all  grow 
on  the  ground  in  pastures  and  woods, 
appearing  from  May  to  late  in  the 
autumn. 

.  Gills  generally  white  or  dingy,  fre- 
quently spotted  or  stained.  The  pi- 
leus may  be  smooth  or  adorned  with 
fibrous  or  downy  scales,  dry,  moist, 
viscid  or  water-soaked. 

The  distinguishing  feature  of  Tricholoma  is  the  sinuate  gills.  In 
Collybia  the  stem  bears  a  distinct  bark-like  skin ;  in  Clitocybe  the  gills 
are  never  sinuate ;  species  of  Pleurotus  are  distinguished  by  growing  on 
wood  only,  and  Paxillus  by  their  strongly-incurved  margin  and  anas- 
tomosing gills. 

In  cooking  Tricholoma  consistency  must 'be  the  guide  to  plan  and 
time.  The  tougher  varieties  require  to  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  to 
be  well  cooked,  while  the  brittle  and  delicate  varieties  will  cook  quickly. 
Many  of  them  make  excellent  soups. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

A.     PILEUS  VISCID,  FIBRILLOSE,  SCALY  OR  DOWNY,  NOT  WATER-SOAKED. 
Stem  fibrillose  from  the  remains  of  the  adnate  universal  veil. 

59 


SECTION  OF  TRICHOLOMA. 


Agaricaceae 

LIMACINA  (/imas,  a  slug  or  snail,  slimy).     Page  61. 

Trichoioma.       Cuticle  of  pileus  viscid  when  moist,  innately  fibrillose  or  scaly,  but  not 
lacerated ;    flesh  of  pileus  thick,  firm ;    margin  almost  naked. 

*  Gills  not  discolored,  nor  becoming  reddish. 

**  Gills  discolored,  usually  spotted  with  reddish-brown. 

GENUINA.     Page  67. 

Cuticle  of  the  pileus  never  moist  or  viscid ;  torn  into  downy  or  floe- 
cose  scales.  Flesh  soft,  not  water-soaked  ;  margin  involute  and  slightly 
downy  at  first. 

*  Gills  not  changing  color,  nor  spotted  with  red  or  black. 

**  Gills  becoming  reddish  or  gray,  the  edge  at  last  generally  with 
reddish  or  black  spots. 

RiGlDA  (rigeo,  to  be  stiff).     Page  74. 

Pileus  rigid,  hard,  somewhat  cartilaginous  when  fleshy,  very  fragile 
when  thin,  cuticle  rigid,  granulated  or  broken  up  when  dry  into  smooth 
scales,  not  torn  into  fibrils.  Young  specimens  occur  which  are  fibrillose 
from  the  veil,  not  from  laceration  of  the  cuticle. 

*  Gills  white  or  pallid,  not  becoming  spotted  with  red  or  gray. 
**  Gills  becoming  reddish,  grayish  or  spotted. 

SERICELLA  {sericeus,  silky).     Page  74. 

Pileus  first  slightly  silky,  soon  becoming  smooth,  very  dry,  neither 
moist,  viscid,  water-soaked,  nor  distinctly  scaly;  rather  thin,  opaque, 
absorbing  moisture,  but  is  the  same  color  as  the  gills.  Stem  fibrous,  by 
which  the  smaller  species  resembling  Collybia  may  be  distinguished. 

*  Gills  broad,  rather  thick,  somewhat  distant. 
**  Gills  narrow,  thin,  crowded. 

B.     PILEUS  EVEN,  SMOOTH,  NOT  DOWNY  NOR  SCALY,  NOT  VISCID. 

In  rainy  weather  moist ;  when  very  young  pruinose  (but  rarely  con- 
spicuously) from  the  universal  veil.  Flesh  soft  and  spongy  or  very 
thin  when  it  is  water-soaked. 

GUTTATA  (gutta,  a  drop).     Page  76. 

Pileus  fleshy,  soft,  fragile,  marked  with  drop-like  spots  or  rivulose. 
Appearing  in  spring,  rarely  in  autumn. 

60 


Leucosporae 

Cespitose,  in  troops  or  often  in  rings.  Trichoioma. 

*  Gills  whitish. 

**  Gills  becoming  reddish  or  smoky-gray. 

SPONGIOSA  (spongia,  a  sponge).      Page  78. 

Pileus  compact,  then  spongy,  obtuse,  even,  smooth,  moist  but  not 
hygrophanous ;  firm,  growing  in  troops  late  in  the  autumn.  Stem 
stout,  base  usually  thickened,  spongy  fibrous.  Gills  at  length  decur- 
rent  but  sinuate,  by  which  character  they  are  distinguished  from  Clito- 
cybe.. 

*  Gills  not  discolored. 
**  Gills  discolored. 

HYGROPHANA  (Gr. ,  wet;  to  appear).     Page  80. 

Pileus  thin,  somewhat  umbonate;  flesh  at  length  soft,  watery.  Stem 
rootless,  containing  a  pith,  entirely  fibrous. 

Flesh  not  exceeding  in  depth  the  width  of  the  not  broad,  thin  gills; 
thinnest  toward  the  margin,  hence  somewhat  umbonate.  Color  of  the 
pileus  either  moist  or  dry,  very  variable  in  the  same  species.  Pileus 
sometimes  pulverulent  from  the  persistence  of  the  veil  in  dry  weather. 

*  Gills  whitish,  not  spotted. 

**  Gills  more  or  less  violet,  gray  or  smoky.      Not  represented. 

Series  A. 
PILEUS  VISCID  OR  FIBRILLOSE,  DOWNY  OR  SCALY. 

I. — LIMA'CINA.    Viscous  when  moist. 
*  Gills  not  becoming  discolored,  nor  becoming  reddish. 

T.  eques'tre  Linn. — eqttestre,  belonging  to  a  horseman  or  knight, 
from  distinguished  appearance.  Pileus  fleshy,  compact,  convex  becom- 
ing expanded,  obtuse,  pale-yellowish,  more  or  less  reddish  tinged,  the 
disk  and. central  scales  often  darker,  the  margin  naked,  often  wavy. 
Flesh  white  or  tinged  with  yellow.  Gills  rounded  behind,  close,  nearly 
free,  sulpJnir-yellow.  Stem  stout,  solid,  pale-yellow  or  white,  white 
within.  Spores  6.5^8x4-5^. 

Pileus  3-5  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  6-10  lines  thick. 

.    61 


Agaricaceee 

Trichoioma.  Pine  woods,  especially  in  sandy  soil.  Albany  county.  September 
to  November. 

This  is  a  noble  species  but  not  plentiful  in  our  state  (N.  Y.).  The 
pileus  is  said  to  become  greenish  very  late  in  the  season.  The  stem,  in 
the  typical  form,  is  described  as  sulphur-yellow  in  color,  but  with  us  it 
is  more  often  white.  The  scales  of  the  disk  are  sometimes  wanting. 
In  our  plant  the  taste  is  slightly  farinaceous  at  first,  but  it  is  soon 
unpleasant. 

Var. pinastreti  A.  and  S.  is  a  slender  form  having  a  thin,  even  pileus, 
thinner  and  more  narrow  gills  and  a  more  slender  stem.  A.  crassus 
Scop.,  A.  aureus  Schaeff. ,  and  A.  flavovirens  Pers.  are  recorded  as 
synonyms  of  this  species.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Professor  Peck  later  says  in  "Mushrooms  and  Their  Use,"  p.  52: 
"I  confidently  add  it  to  the  list  of  edible  species." 

New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania  and  West  Virginia.  In  pine  forests  and 
groves.  September  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

I  have  eaten  it  since  1883.  All  disagreeable  odor  about  T.  equestre 
(which  I  have  seldom  noticed)  disappears  upon  cooking.  The  substance 
is  rather  tough,  but  good. 

T.  COryphse'um  Fr. — chief,  leader.  From  its  distinguished  appear- 
ance. Pileus  very  fleshy  but  not  compact,  convex  then  plane,  obtuse, 
viscid,  yellowish,  streaked  with  small  brownish  scales.  Stem  solid, 
attenuated  upward.  Gills  emarginate,  crowded,  white,  edge  yellow. 

Large  and  of  striking  appearance.      In  shady  beech  woods. 

Pronounced  a  good  edible  by  the  Boston  Myc.  Club. 
-The  color  of  the  plants  is  given  as  greenish-yellow.      Bull.  Boston 
Myc.  Club,  1896. 

T.  UStale  Fr. — uro,  to  burn.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex,  then  plane, 
obtuse,  even,  smooth,  viscid,  bay-brownish.  Stem  stuffed,  equal,  dry, 
rufo-fibrillose,  apex  naked,  silky,  nearly  smooth.  Gills  emarginate, 
crowded,  white,  at  length  with  reddish  spots.  Cooke. 

Chiefly  in  pine  woods. 

Pileus  3  in.     Stem  2-3  in.  long,  about  Yz  in.  thick, 

Spores  SxSju,  W.  G.S.;  7-8x51*  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis,  pine  woods,  Schweinitz;  Kansas,  Cragin. 
Massachusetts.  Edible.  Boston  Myc.  Club,  Bull.  No.  5. 

62 


Leucosporse 

T.  resplen'dens  Fr. — shining  brightly.  PileilS  fleshy,  convex  then  Tricboioma. 
nearly  plane,  even,  bare,  viscid,  white,  sometimes  hyaline-spotted  or 
yellowish  on  the  disk,  shining  when  dry,  the  margin  straight.  Flesh 
white,  taste  mild,  odor  pleasant.  Gills  nearly  free  when  young,  then 
emarginate,  somewhat  crowded,  rather  thick,  entire,  white.  Stem 
solid,  bare,  subbulbous,  even,  dry,  white.  Spores  8x47*. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  4-8  lines  thick. 

Thin  woods.  Catskill  mountains.  September.  Peck,  44th  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa. ,  in  mixed  woods.    October  and  November.   Mcllvaine. 

It  is  of  excellent  flavor,  consistency  and  food  value. 

T.  transmu'tans  Pk. — changing.  PileilS  convex,  nearly  bare,  viscid 
when  moist,  brownish,  reddish-brown  or  tawny-red,  usually  paler  on  the 
margin.  Flesh  white,  taste  and  odor  farinaceous.  Gills  narrow,  close, 
sometimes  branched,  whitish  or  pale  yellowish,  becoming  dingy  or  red- 
dish-spotted when  old.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  bare 
or  slightly  silky-fibrillose,  stuffed  or  hollow,  whitish,  often  marked  with 
reddish  stains  or  becoming  reddish-brown  toward  the  base,  white  within. 
Spores  subglobose,  5/*. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Woods.      The  plants  are  often  cespitose. 

I  suspect  that  Agaricus  frumentaceus  of  Curtis's  catalogue  belongs  to 
this  species.  Both  the  pileus  and  stem,  as  well  as  the  gills,  are  apt  to 
assume  darker  hues  with  age  or  in  drying,  and  this  character  suggested 
the  specific  name.  The  species  is  classed  as  edible.  Peck,  44th  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Curtis  catalogues  T.  frumentaceum  as  edible. 

T.  transmutans  is  reported  from  many  states.  It  has  a  mealy  taste 
and  odor.  Wherever  it  is  found  it  is  a  valuable  food  species. 

T.  sejunc'tum  Sow. — separated ;  from  the  peculiar  manner  in  which 
the  gills  separate  from  the  stem.  PileilS  fleshy,  convex  then  expanded, 
umbonate,  slightly  viscid,  streaked  with  innate  brown  or  blackish  fibrils, 
whitish  or  yellowish,  sometimes  greenish-yellow.  Flesh  white,  fragile. 
Gills  broad,  subdistant,  rounded  behind  or  emarginate,  white.  Stem 
solid,  stout,  often  irregular,  white.  Spores  subglobose,  6.5/t. 

PileilS  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1-3  in.  long,  4-8  lines  thick. 

63 


Agaricacese 

Trichoioma.       Mixed  woods.     Suffolk  county,  N.  Y.     September. 

The  plants  referred  to  this  species  are  not  uncommon  on  Long  Island, 
growing  on  sandy  soil  in  woods  of  oak  and  pine.  They  are  usually 
more  or  less  irregular  and  the  pileus  becomes  fragile.  It  is  quite  vari- 
able in  color,  sometimes  approaching  a  smoky-brown  hue,  again  being 
nearly  white.  The  taste  of  the  typical  form  is  said  to  be  bitter,  but  the 
flavor  of  our  plant  is  scarcely  bitter.  In  other  repects,  however,  it 
agrees  well  with  the  description  of  the  species.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Spores  6/n  W.G.S. 

Flesh  is  tender.  Cooked,  of  good  body  and  peculiar  but  pleasant 
flavor.  A  valuable  species,  baked,  scalloped,  fried. 

T.  terri'ferum  Pk. — terra,  earth ;  fero,  to  bear.  Pileus  broadly  convex 
or  nearly  plane,  irregular,  often  wavy  on  the  margin,  glabrous,  viscid, 
pale-yellow,  generally  soiled  with  adhering  particles  of  earth  carried  up 
in  its  growth.  Flesh  white,  with  no  decided  odor.  Gills  thin,  crowded, 
slightly  adnexed,  white,  not  spotted  or  changeable.  Stem  equal,  short 
solid,  white,  floccose-squamulose  at  the  apex.  Spores  minute,  sub- 
globose,  3/A. 

Pileus  3-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1-1.5  m-  l°ng>  6-8  lines  thick. 

Woods.  Catskill  mountains.  September.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Found  in  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey.  August  to  frost, 
Mcllvaine. 

Not  inviting,  hard  to  clean,  nevertheless  edible  and  good. 

T.  portento'sum  Fr. — portentosus,  strange,  monstrous.  Pileus  3-5  in. 
broad,  sooty,  livid,  sometimes  violaceous,  fleshy,  but  thin  in  comparison 
with  the  stoutness  of  the  stem,  convexo-plane,  somewhat  umbonate, 
unequal  and  turned  up,  viscid,  streaked  with  black  lines  (innate  fibrils), 
but  otherwise  even  and  smooth,  the  very  thin  margin  naked.  Flesh 
not  compact,  white,  fragile.  Stem  commonly  3  in.  often  4-6  in  long, 
i  in.  thick,  stout,  solid,  the  whole  remarkably  fibrous-fleshy,  somewhat 
equal,  naked,  but  fibrilloso-striate ,  white;  the  base,  which  is  occasionally 
attenuato-rooted,  villous.  Gills  rounded,  almost  free,  3-4  lines  to  as 
much  as  i  in.  broad,  distant,  white,  but  varying,  becoming  pale-gray 
or  yellow.  Fries. 

64 


Leucosporee 
4-5X4/A  K.;  5X4/A    W.G.S.  Tricboloma. 

West  Virginia,  1882  ;  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  in  woods  and  open 
places.  May  to  November.  Mcllvaine. 

It  is  one  of  the  first  toadstools  I  experimented  upon.  I  have  been 
constant  to  it.  Its  caps  fried  in  butter  are  unsurpassed. 

**  Gills  discolored,  usually  spotted  with  reddish-brown. 

T.  fla'vo-bl'im'neum  Fr. — flavus,  yellow;  brunneus,  brown.  Pileus 
fleshy,  conical,  then  convex,  at  length  expanded,  subumbonate,  viscid, 
clotJied  with  streak-like  scales.  Stem  hollow,  somewhat  ventricose, 
fibrillose,  at  first  viscid,  yellowish  witliin,  tip  naked.  Gills  emarginate, 
dccnrrent,  crowded,  yellowish,  then  reddish.  Fries. 

Odor  that  of  new  meal.  Stem  3—5  in.  long,  %  in.  thick,  dull-reddish 
or  brownish.  Pileus  3—6  in.  broad,  disk  darker,  dingy  dull-red  or 
reddish-brown. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  damp  woods,  A.  fulvus,  Schweinitz. 

Edible,  Cooke,  1891. 

T.  rus'sula  Schaeff.—  reddish.  (Plate  XVIII,  fig.  3,  p.  60.)  Pileus 
fleshy,  convex,  becoming  plane  or  centrally  depressed,  obtuse,  viscid, 
even  or  dotted  with  granular  squamules  on  the  disk,  red  or  incarnate, 
the  margin  usually  paler,  involute  and  minutely  downy  in  the  young 
plant.  Flesh  white,  sometimes  tinged  with  red,  taste  mild.  Gills  sub- 
distant,  rounded  behind  or  subdecurrent,  white,  often  becoming  red- 
spotted  with  age.  Stem  solid,  firm,  whitish  or  rose-red,  squamulose  at 
the  apex.  Spores  elliptical,  7x4^. 

Pileus  3-5  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  6-8  lines  thick. 

Mixed  woods.  Albany.  Cattaraugus  and  Steuben  counties.  Sep- 
tember and  October. 

According  to  the  description  the  typical  plant  has  the  pileus  incarnate 
and  the  stem  rosy-red,  but  in  the  American  plant  the  pileus  is  generally 
more  clearly  red  and  the  stem  white,  though  this  is  often  varied  by  red- 
dish stains.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mixed  woods.  August  until  after  frost.  At  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  1897- 
1898  the  patches  were  large,  generous  yielders. 

Edible,  Cooke;  edible,  Cordier,  Rogues. 

T.  russula  is  a  dressy  fungus  and  has  a  fashion  of  its  own.  The  mot- 
5  65 


Agaricaceee 

Trichoioma.  lings  upon  its  cap,  gill  and  stem,  in  shades  of  red,  subdued  though 
they  be,  give  it  a  handsome  personality  distinct  from  any  other. 

The  species  is  a  variable  one  in  its  minor  markings.  When  moisture 
is  prevalent  the  caps  of  all  are  viscid.  Both  young  and  old  are  often 
cracked.  Stems  frequently  not  squamulose  at  apex,  frequently  rosy 
when  young,  often  flattened.  The  fibrous  interior  of  the  stem  and  its 
fibrous  connection  with  the  flesh  of  the  cap  are  very  marked.  Gills 
emarginate  in  youth  as  well  as  in  age.  It  is  solitary,  gregarious,  occa- 
sionally bunched. 

An  excellent  fungus,  a  free  late  grower,  meaty,  easily  cooked,  and 
of  fine  flavor. 

T.  frumenta'ceum  Bull. — frumentum,  made  of  corn.    Pileus  2-3  in. 

broad,  whitish  or  clay-color  and  variegated  dull  red,  truly  fleshy,  con- 
vex then  plane,  obtuse,  viscous,  dry  in  fine  weather,  even,  smooth. 
Flesh  white.  Stem  3  in.  long,  %  in.  thick,  solid,  equal,  fibrillose 
when  dry,  whitish.  Grills  rounded,  somewhat  crowded,  rather  broad, 
white,  at  length  spotted-red. 

Wholly  becoming  pale  white,  but  the  stem  and  pileus  are  alike  marked- 
red,  and  the  gills  are  at  length  reddish,  wherefore,  as  well  as  for  the 
strong  smell  of  new  meal,  it  is  undoubtedly  nearest  to  A.  pessundatus. 
When  full  grown  it  has  all  the  appearance  of  Entoloma.  On  the 
ground.  Stevenson. 

Spores  6/u.  W.G.S. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis.  Edible.  Porcher  says  Dr.  Curtis  was  the 
.  first  to  declare  it  edible. 

T.  pessunda'tum  Fr. — pessum  dare,  bent  downward.  Pileus  fleshy, 
compact,  convex,  very  obtuse,  repand,  viscid,  granulose  or  spotted. 
Stem  solid,  firm,  at  first  ovato-bulbous,  everywhere  villose  with  whitish 
scales.  Gills  emarginate,  nearly  free,  crowded,  white,  at  length  spotted 
with  red. 

In  pine  woods.      Odor  and  taste  mealy. 

Pileus  bay,  reddish,  paler  at  the  margin.  Stature  of  Ag.  eques- 
tris.  Fries. 

Spores  5x2.5/1*  Massee;  very  minute,  globose,  2—3/4  C.B.P. 

Reckoned  edible,  but  very  rare.     Stevenson. 

California,   H.  and  M. 

66 


Leucosporae 


II. — GENUl'NA.      Cuticle  of  pileus  torn  into  downy  or  fibrillose  scales. 

*  Gills  not  changing  color  nor  becoming  spotted. 

T.  decoro'sum  Pk. — decorus,  decorous.  Pileus  firm,  at  first  hemi- 
spherical, then  convex  or  nearly  plane,  (Plate  XX.) 
adorned  with  numerous  brownish  sub- 
squarrose  tomentose  scales,  dull  ochra- 
ceous  or  tawny.  Flesh  white.  Gills 
close,  rounded  and  slightly  emarginate 
behind,  the  edge  slightly  scalloped. 
Stem  solid,  equal  or  slightly  tapering 
upward,  white  and  smooth  at  the  top, 
elsewhere  tomentose-scaly  and  colored 
like  the  pileus.  Spores  broadly  el- 
liptical, 5x4^. 

PileilS  1-2  in.  broad.  Stem  2-4 
in.  long,  2-4  lines  thick. 

Decaying  trunks  of  trees.  Catskill 
mountains  and  Alleghany  county. 
September  and  October. 

A  rare  but  beautiful  species.  It  is 
often  cespitose.  It  departs  from  the 
character  of  the  genus  in  growing  on 
decaying  wood.  Peck,  44th  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Trichoioma  decorosum  is  not  rare  in  Pennsylvania.  I  have  found  it 
at  Angora,  Philadelphia  and  in  Chester  county,  Pa.,  growing  in  clus- 
ters and  singly.  At  first  sight  one  might  take  it  for  one  of  the  many 
forms  of  Armillaria,  but  even  cursory  examination  shows  the  difference. 

It  is  of  good  consistency  and  flavor,  having  a  decided  mushroom  taste. 

T.  flaves'cens  Pk. — pale  yellow.  Pileus  convex,  firm,  often  irregu- 
lar, dry,  slightly  silky  becoming  bare,  sometimes  cracking  into  minute 
scales  on  the  disk,  whitish  or  pale  yellow.  Flesh  whitish  or  yellowish. 
Gills  close,  white  or  pale-yellow,  emarginate,  floccose  on  the  edge. 
Stems  firm,  solid,  often  unequal,  central  or  sometimes  eccentric,  single  or 
cespitose,  colored  like  the  pilous.  Spores  subglobose,  5/*  in  diameter. 

67 


TRICHOT.OMA    DECOROSUM. 
Two-thirds  natural  size. 


Agaricaceae 

Trichoioma.       Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.     Stem  1-2.5  in-  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Pine  stumps.     Albany  and  Rensselaer  counties.      October. 

The  species  seems  to  be  related  to  T.  rutilans  but  has  not  the  red  or 
purplish  tomentum  of  that  fungus.  It,  like  T.  decorosum,  is  always 
lignicolous.  T.  rutilans  is  sometimes  so.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State 
Bot. 

Frequently  found  in  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania  and  West  Virginia. 
Pine  stumps.  September  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

The  flesh  compares  with  that  of  T.  rutilans,  and  makes  an  equally 
good  dish. 

T.  gran'de  Pk.  Pileus  thick,  firm,  hemispherical,  becoming  con- 
vex, often  irregular,  dry,  scaly,  somewhat  silky-fibrillose  toward  the 
margin,  white,  the  margin  at  first  involute.  Flesh  grayish-white,  taste 
farinaceous.  Gills  close,  rounded  behind,  adnexed,  white.  Stem  stout, 
solid,  fibrillose,  at  first  tapering  upward,  then  equal  or  but  slightly 
thickened  at  the  base,  pure  white.  Spores  elliptical,  9-1  ix6/*. 

Pileus  4-5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,   1-1.5  in.  thick. 

Among  fallen  leaves  in  woods.      Cattaraugus  county.     September. 

The  plants  are  often  cespitose,  and  then  the  pileus  is  more  or  less 
irregular  and  the  gills  somewhat  lacerated.  The  species  is  related  to 
T.  columbetta,  from  which  its  larger  size,  constantly  scaly  pileus,  more 
cespitose  mode  of  growth,  larger  spores  and  farinaceous  taste  separate 
it.  The  scales  of  the  pileus  are  brownish,  and  the  pileus  itself  is  some- 
times slightly  dingy  on  the  disk.  The  young  margin  is  pure  white  like 
the  stem,  and  both  it  and  the  upper  part  of  the  stem  are  sometimes 
studded  with  drops  of  moisture. 

The  plant  was  found  on  trial  to  be  edible,  but  not  of  first  quality. 
The  flesh  is  not  very  tender,  nor  the  flavor  captivating  even  in  young 
specimens.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.      Mixed  woods.     August  to  frost.     Mcllvaine. 

Gross  when  old.     Young  specimens  of  medium  quality  and  flavor. 

T.  columbet'ta  Fr. — columba,  a  pigeon.  (Plate  XVIII,  fig.  5 ,  p,  60. ) 
Pileus  convex,  then  nearly  plane,  fleshy,  obtuse,  rigid,  somewhat  flex- 
uous,  dry,  at  first  bare,  then  silky-fibrillose,  becoming  even  or  scaly, 
white,  the  margin  at  first  involute,  more  or  less  tomentose.  Flesh  white, 

68 


Leucosporae 

taste  mild.     Gills  close,   emarginate,  thin,  white.      Stem   stout,   solid,  Trichoioma. 
unequal,  nearly  bare,  white.      Spores  7-8x4. 5/x. 

The  species  is  very  variable  and  the  following  varieties  have  been  de- 
scribed : 

Var.  A.  Pileus  nearly  always  repand  or  lobed,  at  first  bare,  even, 
at  length  cracked-scaly,  often  reddish  spotted,  the  margin  when  young 
indexed,  tomentose.  Stem  obese,  even,  unequal,  swollen,  an  inch  thick. 
The  typical  form. 

Birch  wood  among  mosses. 

Var.  B.  Pileus  subflexuous,  silky-fibrillose,  at  length  scaly,  some- 
times dingy-brown  spotted,  the  margin  scarcely  tomentose.  Stem 
longer,  equal  or  slightly  narrowed  at  the  base. 

Bushy  places.      Intermediate  between  A  and  C. 

Var.  C.  PileilS  regular,  flattened,  evidently  fibrillose,  sometimes 
spotted  with  blue,  four  inches  broad.  Stem  equal,  cylindrical,  fibrillosc- 
striate,  four  inches  long. 

Beech  woods.  A  showy  variety  so  diverse  from  variety  A  that  it 
might  be  regarded  as  a  distinct  species,  did  not  variety  B  connect  them, 
and  so  much  resemble  both  that  it  might  with  equal  propriety  be  re- 
ferred to  either. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1-4  in.  long,  3-12  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  pastures.      Albany  county,  N.  Y. 

It  may  be  distinguished  from  T.  album  by  its  mild  taste.  It  is  re- 
corded as  edible.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Edible,  Curtis,  Cooke,  Stevenson. 

This  much  varied  Trichoioma  is  as  varied  in  its  habitat.  I  have 
found  it  on  vacant  lots  in  Philadelphia,  in  mixed  woods  at  Devon,  Pa., 
and  in  the  forests  of  the  West  Virginia  mountains,  and  eaten  it  since 
1881. 

It  cooks  readily  and  is  of  mild,  agreeable  flavor. 

T.  ru'tilans  Schaeff. — rutilo,  to  be  reddish.  Pileus  fleshy,  campanu- 
late  becoming  plane,  dry,  at  first  covered  with  a  dark-red  or  purplish 
tomentum  then  somewhat  scaly,  the  margin  thin,  at  first  involute.  Flesh 
yellow.  Gills  crowded,  rounded,  yellow,  thickened  and  down}'  on  the  edge. 
Stem  somewhat  hollow,  nearly  equal  or  slightly  thickened  or  bulbous  at 
the  base,  soft,  pale-yellow  variegated  with  red  or  purplish  floccose  scales. 
Spores  6.5-8x6.5^. 

69 


Agaricaceee 


Tricholoma. 


(Plate  XXI.) 


TRICHOLOMA    RUTILANS. 
About  three-eighths  natural  size. 


mallow  confection. 


Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4 

in.  long,  5—8  lines  thick. 

On  or  about  pine  stumps,  rarely  on 
hemlock  trunks.  July  to  November. 
Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  subglobose,  5-6/A  diameter 
Massee;  6-8x6^  B.;  6x91*  W.G.S. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New 
Jersey.  May  to  November.  Mc- 
Ilvaine. 

Quite  common  in  West  Virginia 
mountains  and  in  pine  woods  of  New 
Jersey.  The  Boston  Mycological 
Club  reports  it  found  in  quantity  in 
Massachusetts.  The  flesh  when 
cooked  is  gummy,  like  the  marsh- 
It  is  excellent. 


**  Gills  becoming  reddish  or  gray ,  etc. 

T.  vacci'num  Pers. — vacca,  a  cow.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex  or  cam- 
panulate,  becoming  nearly  plane,  umbonate,  dry,  floccose-scaly,  reddish- 
brown,  the  margin  involute,  tomentose.  Flesh  white.  Gills  adnexed, 
subdistant,  whitish,  then  reddish  or  reddish-spotted.  Stem  equal,  hol- 
low, covered  with  a  fibrillose  bark,  naked  at  the  apex,  pale  reddish. 

Spores  subglobose,  6/u,. 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Under  or  near  coniferous  trees.  Greene  and  Essex  counties.  Sep- 
tember and  October.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Recorded  as  edible  by  Gillet. 

Plentiful  in  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  West  Virginia.  Have  eaten  it 
since  1885.  Fair. 

T.  fuligi'neum  Pk. — fuligineus,  resembling  soot.  Pileus  convex  or 
nearly  plane,  obtuse,  often  irregular,  dry,  minutely  scaly,  sooty-brown. 
Flesh  grayish,  odor  and  taste  farinaceous.  Gills  subdistant,  uneven  on 
the  edge,  ash-colored  becoming  blackish  in  drying.  Stem  short,  solid, 
equal,  bare,  ash-colored.  Spores  oblong-elliptical,  8x4/4. 

70 


Leucosporse 


Pileus  1-2.5  in.  broad.      Stem  I-I-5  m-  long,  3~5  lines  thick.  Trichoioma. 

Among  mosses  in  open  places.  Greene  county.  September.  Rare. 
Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Quite  common  in  Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey  on  mossy  wood 
margins.  It  is  of  fair  quality  and  flavor. 


(Plate  XVIII,  fig.  4,  p.  60.) 
(Plate  XXII.) 


TRICHOLOMA  TERREUM. 
One-half  natural  size. 


T.  ter'reum  Schaeff. — the  earth.  (Plate  XVIII,  fig.  4,  p.  60.  )  Pi- 
leus  fleshy,  thin,  soft,  convex,  cam- 
panulate  or  nearly  plane,  obtuse  or 
umbonate,  innately  fibrillose  or  ftoc- 
cose-scaly,  ashy-brown,  grayish- 
brown  or  mouse  color.  Flesh  white 
or  whitish.  Gills  adnexed,  subdis- 
tant,  more  or  less  eroded  on  the  edge, 
white  becoming  ash-colored.  Stem 
equal,  varying  from  solid  to  stuffed 
or  hollow,  fibrillose,  white  or  whitish. 
Spores  broadly  elliptical,  6-7x4-5^. 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem   1-2 
in.  long,  2—4  lines  thick. 

Woods.  Albany,  Rensselaer  and  Cattaraugus  counties.  September 
to  November.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  7x5.5/4  Morgan;  5-6/4  Massee;  6-7x411  K.;  6/*  W.G.S. 

Eaten  by  Professor  Peck.      Eaten  by  Mcllvaine.      Quality  fair. 

T.  ter'reum  Schaeff. — var.  fra  grans  Pk.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  dry,  innately-fibrillose  or  minutely  floccose-scaly,  grayish-brown 
or  blackish-brown.  Gills  rather  broad,  adnexed,  whitish  or  ash-colored. 
Stem  equal,  solid  or  stuffed,  rarely  hollow,  whitish.  Spores  broadly 
elliptical,  6-7x4-5/4. 

The  Fragrant  tricholoma  has  a  distinct  farinaceous  odor  and  flavor. 
In  other  respects  it  closely  resembles  the  Earth-colored  tricholoma  of 
which  it  is  considered  a  mere  variety.  The  typical  European  plant  is 
said  to  be  without  odor  or  nearly  so  and  has  not  been  classed  among 
the  edible  species  by  European  writers.  But  our  variety,  though  not 
high-flavored,  is  fairly  good  and  entirely  harmless.  Its  cap  varies  con- 
siderably in  color  but  is  some  shade  of  gray  or  brown.  Its  center  is 
without  any  prominence  or  very  bluntly  prominent,  and  its  surface  is 

71 


Agaricacese 

Trichoioma.  commonly  very  obscurely  marked  with  innate  fibrils  or  in  small  plants 
may  have  very  small  flocculose  tufts  or  scales.  The  flesh  is  whitish  as 
also  are  the  gills,  though  these  sometimes  assume  a  more  decided  gray- 
ish hue.  They  are  rather  broad  and  loose  and  sometimes  uneven  on 
the  edge  or  even  split  transversely.  They  are  usually  deeply  excavated 
next  the  stem  and  attached  to  it  by  a  narrow  part.  The  stem  is  whitish 
or  slightly  shaded  with  the  color  of  the  cap.  It  often  has  a  few  longi- 
tudinal fibrils,  but  never  any  collar.  It  may  be  either  solid,  stuffed  or 
spongy  within,  or  in  large  specimens,  hollow. 

The  plants  grow  gregariously  or  sometimes  in  tufts  on  the  ground 
under  or  near  trees  or  in  thin  woods,  especially  of  pine,  or  in  mixed 
woods.  The  caps  vary  from  1-4  in.  broad,  and  the  stems  from  1-3  in. 
long  and  from  2-6  lines  thick.  The  plants  occur  in  autumn.  In  Europe 
there  is  a  variety  of  this  species  which  also  has  a  farinaceous  odor,  but 
it  differs  from  our  plant  in  having  reddish  edges  to  the  gills.  It  is  called 
variety  orirubens.  Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Var.  fragrans  is  plentiful  and  gregarious  among  New  Jersey  pines. 
October  to  frost.  Other  varieties  are  often  found.  Specimens  found 
by  me  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  and  sent  to  Professor  Peck  who  identified 
them  as  var.  fragrans  Pk.,  were  decidedly  umbonate.  Gills  were  easily 
separable  from  cap. 

Var.  fragrans  is  a  favorite.  It  is  pleasant  to  many,  even  raw.  Plenti- 
ful salting  while  cooking  develops  a  high  and  exquisite  flavor. 

T.  fumes'cens  Pk. — smoky.  PileilS  convex  or  expanded,  dry, 
clothed  with  a  very  minute  appressed  tomentum,  whitish.  Gills  narrow, 
crowded,  rounded  behind,  whitish  or  pale  cream  color,  changing  to 
smoky-bine  .or  blackish  where  bruised.  Stem  short,  cylindrical,  whitish. 
Spores  oblong-elliptical,  5-6.5^. 

Pileus  i  in.  broad.      Stem  I-I-5  in.  high,  2-3  lines  thick. 

Woods.      Columbia  county.      October.      Rare. 

The  species  is  remarkable  for  the  smoky  or  blackish  hue  assumed  by 
the  gills  when  bruised  and  also  in  drying.  It  is  apparently  related  to 
T.  immundum  Berk.,  but  in  that  species  the  whole  plant  becomes 
blackish  when  bruised,  and  the  gills  are  marked  with  transverse  lines 
and  tinged  with  pink.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.      September  to  November,  1898.      Mcllvaine. 

The  size  of  cap  sometimes  attains  to  3  in  and  stem  to  %  in.  in  thick- 

72 


Leucosporas 

ness.    Taste  at  first  farinaceous  then  sweetish.    The  caps  are  of  excellent 
quality  and  flavor. 


Pileus  fleshy,   compact, 

(Plate  XXIII.) 


^ — X 


0=1  R 


T.  imbriea'tum  Fr. — covered  with  tiles, 
convex  or  nearly  plane,  obtuse,  dry, 
innately  scaly,  fibrillose  toward  the 
margin,  brown  or  reddish-brown,  the 
margin  thin,  at  first  slightly  in  flexed 
and  pubescent  then  naked.  Flesh  firm, 
thick,  white.  Gills  slightly  emargi- 
nate,  almost  adnate,  rather  close, 
white  when  young,  becoming  reddish 
or  spotted.  Stem  solid,  firm,  nearly 
equal,  fibrillose,  white  and  mealy  or 
pulverulent  at  the  top,  elsewhere  col- 
ored like  the  pileus.  Spores  6.5x 

4—  5/w..  TRICHOLOMA  IMUKICATUM. 

-r,-!  •        i          j         CIA  One-half  natural  size. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3 

in.  long,  4-10  lines  thick.     Under  or  near  coniferous  trees.     Greene  and 
Essex  counties.      September  and  October. 

This  is  an  edible  species.  It  has  a  farinaceous  odor  and  taste  when 
fresh.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Dot. 

Closely  resembles  T.  transmutans  in  size,  color  and  taste.  It  is,  how- 
ever, easily  separated  by  its  dry  cap  and  solid  stem.  Peck. 

Plentiful  in  pine  woods  of  New  Jersey,  and  among  hemlocks  in  West 
Virginia.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  under  pines.  October  and  November, 
1898.  Me  livable. 

Specimens  found  at  Mt.  Gretna  had  caps  dark  umber  when  young, 
and  margin  incurved  to  stem.  Gills  yellowish.  Stem  up  to  4  in.  long, 
stout,  solid,  swollen  at  base,  and  having  a  short  pointed  ending,  firm, 
fibrillose,  white.  Flavor  farinaceous. 

Flesh  of  good  texture  and  taste. 


Agaricaceae 
Trichoioma.  III. — Rio'iDA.     Pileus  rigid,  cuticle  broken  up  into  smooth  scales,  etc. 

*  Gills  white  or  pallid,  not  becoming  spotted  with  red  or  gray . 
Not  represented. 

** 'Gills  becoming  reddisJi  or  grayish,  spotted,  etc. 

T.  sapona'ceum  Fr. — sapo,  soap.  Strong,  smelling  of  an  undefina- 
ble  soap.  Cap  2—4  in.  across,  involute  at  first,  convex  then  flattened, 
dry,  glabrous,  moist  in  wet  weather,  never  viscid,  brownish,  more  or 
less  spotted  or  having  the  skin  cracked  into  scales,  occasionally  covered 
with  dark  fibrils.  Flesh  firm,  whitish  becoming  reddish  when  wounded. 
Gills  emarginate,  with  a  hooked  tooth  (uncinate)  thin,  distant,  pale 
white.  Stem  2-4  in.  long,  about  ,4  in.  thick,  often  unequal,  base 
sometimes  long  and  rooting,  usually  smooth,  at  times  reticulated  with 
black  fibrils,  or  is  scaly.  Distasteful. 

The  species  is  variable  in  size  and  color.  Stevenson  remarks: 
"Scarcely  any  species  has  been  more  confounded  with  others."  It  may 
always  be  safely  distinguished  by  its  odor,  by  its  distant  gills,  by  the 
smooth  cuticle  of  the  cap  cracking  into  scales,  and  by  the  change  of 
color  to  reddish  when  bruised. 

West  Virginia  mountains.  August  to  frost.  1881-85.  New  Jersey, 
Pennsylvania.  Mcllvaine. 

This  fungus  is  not  extremely  unpleasant  when  eaten — like  T.  sulphu- 
reum,  but  no  one  will  care  to  eat  it.  There  is  nothing  in  the  flavor  to 
recommend  it  or  to  inspire  a  cultivation  of  taste  for  it. 

IV. — SERICEL'LA.     Pileus  slightly  silky,  soon  smooth,  etc. 
*  Gills  broad,  rather  thick,  somewhat  distant. 

T.  sulplm'reum  Bull. — sulphur,  brimstone.  Odor  strong,  fetid  or 
like  gas  tar.  Cap  1-4  in.  across,  subglobose,  then  convex  and  plane, 
slightly  umbonate,  sometimes  depressed,  fleshy,  margin  at  first  involute. 
Color  dingy  or  reddish  sulphur-yellow,  at  first  silky,  becoming  smooth 
or  minutely  tomentose.  Flesh  thick.,  yellow.  Gills  rather  thick,  nar- 
rowed behind,  emarginate  or  acutely  adnate,  sometimes  appearing  arcu- 
ate from  shape  of  cap.  Stem  2-4  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick,  equal  or 

74 


Leucosporae 

slightly  bulbous,  often  curved,  smooth  striate,  sulphur-yellow,   stuffed,  Trichoioma, 
fibrous  or  hollow,  yellow  within,  at  times  having  yellow  fibrous  roots. 

Spores  9- 1  ox  5 /*  Massee. 

Very  variable  in  size.      Gregarious,  common  in  mixed  woods. 

West  Virginia,  1 88 1.     West  Philadelphia,  1886.     Mcllvaine. 

When  quite  young  T.  sulphureum  is  showy  and  inviting.  Its  smell 
is  discouraging,  its  taste  forbidding.  No  amount  of  cooking  removes 
its  unpleasant  flavor.  I  have  tried  to  eat  enough  of  it  to  test  its  quali- 
ties, but  was  satisfied  after  strenuous  efforts  to  mark  it  INEDIBLE. 

T.  chrysenteroi'des  Pk. — like  gold.  PileilS  fleshy,  convex  or  plane, 
not  at  all  umbonate,  firm,  dry,  glabrous  or  slightly  silky,  pale-yellow 
or  buff,  becoming  dingy  with  age,  the  margin  sometimes  reflexed,  flesh 
pale-yellow,  taste  and  odor  farinaceous.  Gills  rather  close,  emarginate, 
yellowish,  becoming  dingy  or  pallid  with  age,  marked  with  transverse 
-ccinlets  along  Hie  upper  edge,  the  interspaces  veined.  Stem  equal, 
firm,  solid,  bare,  fibrous-striate,  yellowish  without  and  within.  Spores 
elliptical,  8-10x5-6/4. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick. 

Woods.      Lewis  and  Cattaraugus  counties.      September. 

Nearly  allied  to  T.  chrysenterum,  but  separable  by  the  gills,  which 
are  somewhat  veiny  and  not  free,  by  the  entire  absence  of  an  umbo  and 
by  its  farinaceous  odor  and  taste.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Frequently  found  at  Angora,  and  in  Woodland  Cemetery,  West 
Philadelphia. 

Edible.      Fair  flavor  and  good  quality. 

T.  o'picum  Fr. — uncouth.  Pileus  i-i  ^  in.  across.  Flesh  rather  thin, 
becoming  grayish;  convex,  then  expanded,  obtusely-umbonate,  at 
length  usually  upturned  and  split,  very  dry,  even  at  first,  then  minutely 
scaly,  gray.  Gills  broadly  emarginate,  ventricose,  rather  thick,  scarcely 
distant,  hoary.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick,  equal,  fibrillose, 
becoming  almost  glabrous,  pallid  then  grayish,  stuffed.  Massee 

Among  moss,  in  pine  woods,  etc. 

Inodorous.  Somewhat  resembling  T.  saponaceum,  but  distinguished 
by  the  absence  of  smell. 

Waretown,  N.  J.  Under  pines  and  open  places  in  pine  woods.  Au- 
gust to  September,  1889.  Mcllvaine. 

75 


Agaricaceae 

Trichoioma.  When  wet  the  caps  become  darker  and  have  a  mottled  appearance. 
They  are  tender,  but  rather  tasteless.  The  species  serves  to  make 
quantity  when  cooked  with  others  of  higher  flavor. 

T.  pipera'tum  Pk. — piper,  pepper.  PileilS  rather  thin,  firm,  dry, 
convex,  obtuse  or  subumbonate,  virgate  with  innate  brownish  fibrils, 
varying  in  color  from  grayish-brown  to  blackish-brown,  sometimes  with 
greenish  or  yellowish  tints.  Flesh  white  or  whitish,  taste  acrid.  Gills 
broad,  close,  rounded  behind,  adnexed,  whitish  or  yellowish.  Stem 
generally  short,  equal,  solid,  silky,  slightly  mealy  or  pruinose  at  the 
top,  white  or  slightly  tinged  with  yellow.  Spores  elliptic,  6-7/x.  long, 
SfJ-  broad.  PileilS  4-7  cm.  broad.  Stem  5-7  cm.  long,  6-12  mm.  thick. 

The  central  part  of  the  pileus  is  sometimes  a  little  darker  than  the 
rest.  The  peppery  or  acrid  taste  is  very  distinct  and  remains  in  the 
mouth  many  minutes.  This  and  the  innately  fibrillose  character  of  the 
pileus  are  distinguishing  characters  of  the  species.  The  plants  appear 
from  September  to  November.  Peck,  Torr.  Bull.,  Vol.  26. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  October  to  November,  1898,  on  damp  ground 
among  moss.  Mcllvaine. 

Cap  up  to  3  in.  across,  bell-shaped,  then  convex,  depressed  in  center 
and  undulate,  light-brown,  darker  toward  center,  dry,  minutely  fibril- 
lose.  Flesh  thick,  white,  thin  toward  margin.  Gills  emarginate,  un- 
equal, not  forked.  Stem  1/^—2  in.  long,  hard,  equal  or  enlarging 
toward  base,  white,  silky,  striate. 

Though  peppery  raw,  this  Trichoioma  is  of  good  substance  and  flavor 
when  cooked. 

B.    PILEUS  EVEN,  SMOOTH,  NOT  DOWNY,  SCALY,  NOR  VISCID,  ETC. 
V. — GUTTA'TA.      Pileus  marked  with  drop-like  spots  or  rivulose. 

*  Gills  whitish. 

T.  gambo'sum    Fr. — gambosus,    swelling    near    the    hoof.       PileilS 

3-4  in.  and  more  broad,  becoming  pale-tan,  fleshy,  hemispherico-convex , 
then  flattened,  obtuse,  undulated  and  bent  backward,  even,  smooth,  but 
spotted  as  with  drops,  at  length  widely  cracked  (not,  however,  torn  into 
squamules),  the  margin  at  the  first  involute  and  tementose.  Flesh  thick, 
soft,  fragile,  white.  Stem  2  in.  and  more  long,  ^2  —  1  in.  thick,  solid  _ 
fleshy-firm,  almost  equal,  often  curved-ascending  at  the  base, 

76 


Iieucosporee 

downy  at  the  apex.  Gills  rounded  or  emarginato-adnexed,  with  a  some- 
what  decurrent  tooth  and  when  old  sinuato-decurrent,  crowded,  ventri- 
cose,  2-3  lines  broad,  whitish.  Fries. 

Odor  pleasant,  of  new  meal.  Often  forming  large  rings  or  clusters. 
A  whitish  form  must  not  be  confounded  with  T.  albellus. 

Spores  I3XH/X,  W.G.S.;   13-14x8-9/1*  Massee;   13x10^  Cooke. 

Angora,  Philadelphia.    Chester  and  Lebanon  county,  Pa.    Mcllvaine. 

Fair. 

**  Gills  becoming  reddish  or  smoky-gray. 

T.  tigl'i'num  Schaeff. — spotted  like  a  tiger.  Pileus  2  in.  broad,  pal- 
lid-brown, variegated  with  crowded  and  darker  dingy-brown  spots,  com- 
pactly fleshy,  convex  then  expanded,  obtuse,  repand.  Flesh  thick, 
firm,  white,  unchangeable,  but  thin  at  the  involute  margin.  Stem  I  in. 
long  and  thick,  very  compact,  solid,  pruinate,  white.  Gills  rounded 
behind,  at  length  decurrent  with  a  tooth,  crowded,  narrow,  white,  at 
length  darker. 

Solitary  or  cespitose.  Very  distinguished,  obese,  and  without  any 
marked  smell  of  new  meal.  In  fir  woods  and  open  grassy  ground. 
Rare.  June  to  July.  Stevenson. 

Edible,  Cooke,  Fries. 

T.  albel'lum  Fr. — albus,  white.  Pileus  about  3  in.  broad,  becom- 
ing pale-white,  passing  into  gray  when  dry,  fleshy,  thick  at  the  disk, 
thinner  at  the  sides,  conical  tJien  convex,  gibbous  when  expanded,  when 
in  vigor  moist  on  the  surface,  spotted  (mottled)  as  with  scales,  the  thin 
margin  naked.  Flesh  soft,  floccose,  white,  unchangeable.  Stem  curt, 
i  ,12—  2  in.  long,  i  in.  thick  at  the  base,  reaching  %  in.  toward  the  apex, 
solid,  fleshy-compact,  ovato-bulbous  (conical  to  the  middle,  cylindrical 
above  the  middle),  fibrillose-striate,  white.  Gills  very  much  attenuated 
behind,  not  emarginate,  becoming  broad  in  front,  very  crowded,  quite 
entire,  white.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  6—7x441  Massee;  ovoid,  3/*  W.G.S.;  ovoid,  3/u. 
Cooke . 

Pileus  not  becoming  yellow.  Odor  weak  when  fresh,  taste  pleasant, 
almost  that  of  cooked  flesh.  There  are  two  forms:  one  larger,  solitary, 
another  smaller,  connato-cespitose,  quite  as  in  A.  albellus  Sow.  It  is 
often  confounded  with  smaller  forms  of  A.  gambosus.  Stevenson. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis.      Damp  woods.      Edible. 

77 


Agaricaceae 

Tciciioioma.        VI. — SPONGlo'SA.     Pileus  compact  then  spongy,  smooth,  moist. 

*  Gills  not  discolored, 

T.  vires'cens  Pk. — viresco,  to  grow  green.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  sometimes  centrally  depressed,  moist,  bare,  dingy-green,  the  mar- 
gin sometimes  wavy  or  lobed.  Gills  close,  gradually  narrowed  toward 
the  outer  extremity,  rounded  or  slightly  emarginate  at  the  inner,  white. 
Stem  subequal,  stuffed  or  hollow,  thick  but  brittle,  whitish,  sometimes 
tinged  with  green.  Spores  broadly  elliptical,  5x4/4. 

Pileus  3-5  in.  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  6—12  lines  thick. 

Thin  woods.      Essex  county.     July. 

The  dull  smoky-green  hue  of  the  pileus  is  the  distinguishing  feature 
of  this  species.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Quite  common  in  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania.  July 
to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.  Tastes  somewhat  like  many  Russulae,  when  cooked.  Flavor 
good. 

T,  fumidel'lum  Pk. — smoky.  Pileus  convex,  then  expanded,  sub- 
umbonate,  bare,  moist,  dingy-white  or  clay-color  clouded  ^vith  brown, 
the  disk  or  umbo  generally  smoky-brown.  Gills  crowded,  subventri- 
cose,  whitish.  Stem  equal,  bare,  solid,  whitish.  Spores  minute,  sub- 
globose,  4-5X4/A. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-2.5  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick. 

Woods.  Albany  county  and  Catskill  mountains.  September  and 
October. 

The  stem  splits  easily  and  the  pileus  becomes  paler  in  drying.  It 
sometimes  becomes  cracked  in  areas.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

On  ground.  Mt.  Gretna.  October  and  November.  1897.  Mcll- 
vaine. 

The  species  was  plentiful  among  the  leaf  mold,  growing  from  the 
ground  in  mixed  woods. 

The  caps  are  delicate  in  substance  and  flavor. 

T.  leucocepll'alum  Fr.  Gr. — white;  head.  Pileus  iM-2  in.  across, 
convex  then  plane,  even,  moist,  smooth,  but  when  young  covered  with 
a  satiny  down;  water-soaked  after  rain.  Flesllthin,  tough,  white.  Gills 
rounded  behind  and  almost  free,  white.  Stem  up  to  2  in.  long,  K  in. 

78 


Leucosporae 

thick,  exterior  hard,  shining,  fibrous;   interior  hollow  but  solid  at  base  Tricboior 
which  is  attenuated  and  rooting,  twisted.      Smell  strong  of  new  meal. 
Taste  pleasant. 

Spores  9-10x7-8/1. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Grassy  woods  and  borders.  October  to  November, 
1898.  Mcllvaine. 

Quite  common.      The  caps  are  excellent. 

T.  al'bum  Schaeff. — albns,  white.  Pileus  fleshy,  tough,  convex, 
becoming  plane  or  depressed,  obtuse,  very  dry,  even,  glabrous,  white, 
sometimes  yellowish  on  the  disk,  rarely  wholly  yellowish,  the  margin  at 
first  involute.  Flesh  white,  taste  acrid  or  bitter.  Grills  emarginate,  some- 
what crowded,  distinct,  white.  Stem  solid,  elastic,  equal  or  tapering 
upward,  externally  fibrous,  obsoletely  frosted  at  the  apex,  white.  Spores 
elliptical,  5-6/*  long. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Woods.  Common.  August  to  October.  This  species  is  variable  in 
color  and  in  size,  being  sometimes  robust,  sometimes  slender.  It  grows 
singly,  in  troops  or  in  tufts.  It  has  no  decided  odor,  but  a  bitter  un- 
pleasant taste.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Cooked,  tender  and  of  fair  flavor. 

**  Gills  becoming  discolored. 

T.  persona'tum  Fr. — wearing  a  mask  (from  its  many  varieties  of 
colors).  (Plate  XVIII,  p.  60.)  Pileus  compact,  becoming  soft, 
thick,  convex  or  plane,  obtuse,  regular,  moist,  bare,  variable  in  color, 
generally  pallid  or  ashy  tinged  with  violet  or  lilac,  the  margin  at  first 
involute  and  frosted  with  fine  hairs.  Flesh  whitish.  Gills  broad, 
crowded,  rounded  behind,  free,  violaceous  becoming  sordid-whitish  or 
dingy-brown.  Stem  generally  thick,  subbulbous,  solid,  fibrillose  or 
frosted  with  fine  hairs,  whitish  or  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  dingy 
white,  subelliptical,  8-9x4-5^.  On  white  paper  the  spores  have  a 
slight  salmon  tint,  but  they  are  regular  in  shape,  not  angular  as  in  En- 
toloma. 

Pileus  2-5  in.  broad.  Stem  1-3  in.  long,  6-12  lines  thick.  Peck, 
44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Woods  and  open  places,  and  growing  from  old,  matted  stable  straw. 
Common  over  the  United  States. 

79 


Agaricaceae 

When  T.  personatum  becomes  known  to  the  collector,  either  in  the 
field  or  on  the  table,  it  is  sure  to  become  a  favorite.  It  is  fleshy,  rotund, 
stocky,  moist  and  smooth,  with  a  tendency  in  its  cap  to  be  wavy-rimmed 
and  jauntily  cocked  in  wet  weather.  It  grows  singly  or  in  troops,  oc- 
casionally in  tufts  of  from  five  to  six  individuals.  A  patch  of  it  is  valu- 
able and  worth  husbanding  with  covering  of  fine  straw.  Cortinarius 
violaceus  resembles  it  somewhat  in  color  and  shape,  but  it  shows  a  spi- 
dery veil,  and  has  brown  spores.  It  is  edible. 

The  common  name  of  T.  personatum  in  England  is  Blewits,  which 
translated  into  understandable  English  is  believed  to  be  "blue-hats." 
It  is  everywhere  eaten,  being  of  substantial  substance,  good  flavor  and 
cookable  in  any  way.  It  is  especially  fine  in  patties,  stews  and  cro- 
quettes. 

T.  nu'dum  Bull. — naked.  PileilS  about  3  in.  broad,  becoming  purple- 
violaceous  then  changing  color,  reddish,  fleshy,  comparatively  thin,  con- 
vexo-plane  then  depressed,  obtuse,  even,  smooth,  with  a  pellicle  which 
is  moist  and  manifest  in  rainy  weather;  margin  inflexed,  thin,  naked. 
Flesh  thin,  pliant,  colored.  Stem  about  3  in.  long,  %  in.  thick,  stuffed, 
clastic,  equal,  almost  naked,  mealy  at  the  apex,  violaceous  then  becoming 
pale.  Gills  rounded  then  decurrent  (on  account  of  the  depressed  pileus ) , 
crowded,  narrow,  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus  or  deeper  violaceous, 
but  soon  changing  color,  at  length  reddish  without  the  least  tinge  of 
violet.  Stevenson. 

Spores  7x3. 5/x  Massee;  6-8x4^  B.t •  6x3/01  W.G.S.  On  ground 
among  leaves.  Esculent,  very  good  and  delicate.  Cordier.  Edible. 
Rose.  Edible,  all  American  authorities. 

VII. — HYGROPH'ANA.     Pileus  thin,  water-soaked,  etc. 
*  Gills  whitish,  not  spotted. 

T.  grammopo'dilim  Bull.  Gr. — aline;  Gr. — afoot.  Pileus  3-6  in. 
broad,  pallid-livid  or  brownish-red  when  moist,  whitish  when  dry, 
fleshy,  very  thin  toward  the  margin,  campanulate  then  convex,  and  at 
length  flattened,  obtusely  umbonate,  even,  smooth,  pellicle  moist  in 
rainy  weather,  not  viscous,  separating,  flesh-colored  when  moist,  white 
when  dry,  soft,  fragile.  Stem  tall,  about  3-4  in.  long,  ^  in.  and  more 

80 


Leucosporae 

thick,  solid,   elastic,   equal  with  exception  of  the  thickened  base,  cyl-  Trichoioma. 
indrical,  firm,  smooth,  evidently  longitudinally  sulcate,  whitish.      Gills 
arcuato-adnate  or  broadly  horizontally  emarginate,  acute  at  both  ends, 
very   crowded,    quite   entire,    very    many   shorter,    somewhat    branched 
behind,  white. 

Odor  moldy.  Striking  in  appearance;  the  chief  of  this  group. 
There  is  a  variety  wholly  white.  In  pastures  and  grassy  woods.  Stev- 
enson . 

Spores  5-6>  Massee. 

Distinguished  by  the  grooved  stem  and  crowded  gills,  which  are 
adnate  when  the  pileus  is  expanded.  Often  growing  in  rings. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis.  Not  reported  elsewhere.  Esculent.  Cooke. 
Much  eaten  in  Europe. 

T.  bre'vipes  Bull. — brevis,  short;  pes,  a  foot.  Pileus  about  2  in. 
broad,  umber  then  becoming  pale,  fleshy,  soft,  convex  then  becoming 
plane,  even,  smooth,  moist  (opaque  when  dry) ;  flesh  of  the  pileus  be- 
coming brownish  when  moist,  becoming  white  when  dry.  Stem  solid, 
very  rigid,  at  length  fibrous,  pruinate  at  the  apex ,  externally  and  in- 
ternally fuscous;  otherwise  very  variable,  sometimes  very  short,  2—3 
lines  only  long  and  thick,  attenuated  downward;  commonly  I  in., 
sometimes  bulbous,  sometimes  equal,  more  slender.  Gills  emarginato- 
free,  crowded,  ventricose,  disappearing  short  of  the  margin,  quite  entire, 
becoming  fuscous  then  whitish.  Solitary.  Inodorous.  The  pileus  is 
often  stained  with  soil.  Stevenson. 

Spores  elliptical,  7-5x5/x  Peck;  J-^  Massee. 

Esculent  and  very  delicate.     Paulet.     Esculent.      Cooke. 

T.  hu'mile  Pers.— low,  small.  (Plate  XVIII,  fig.  6,  p.  60. )  Very 
variable  in  form  and  color.  Cap  2-3  in.  across,  convex  then  expanded, 
wavy,  flattened,  sometimes  umbonate,  sometimes  depressed,  glabrous, 
occasionally  powdered  with  thin  white  dust,  fragments  of  veil,  some- 
times viscid.  Color  changes  with  moisture,  blackish,  grayish,  and 
having  somewhat  the  appearance  of  an  oyster.  Gills  rounded-adnexed, 
with  a  slight  tooth,  arcuately  decurrent,  crowded,  2—3  lines  broad, 
whitish.  Flesh  soft,  whitish  or  grayish.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  up  to  % 
in.  thick,  equal  (misshapen  by  pressure  when  tufted),  light  gray,  cov- 


Agaricaceee 

Trichoioma.  ered  with  fine  down,  stuffed,  becoming  hollow,  soft,  fragile.  Gregari- 
ous, usually  tufted. 

Spores  7-8x5-61*  K, 

Open  woods,  in  gardens,  among  cinders,  grass,  etc.,  September  to 
frost. 

Woodland  Cemetery,  Philadelphia,  1897.     Mcllvaine. 

Its  tufted  habit  and  fair  size,  fleshy  cap  of  good  flavor,  make  it  a  de- 
sirable species.  It  cooks  readily  and  the  caps  are  of  fine  flavor. 

T.  pse'didum  Fr. — pcedidus,  nasty.  Pileus  about  I  Yz  in.  across. 
Flesh  very  thin,  tough,  becoming  whitish;  bell-shaped  then  convex,  at 
length  expanded,  umbonate,  at  length  depressed  round  the  conical, 
prominent  umbo,  moist,  virgate  or  streaked  with  innate  fibrils  radiating 
from  the  center,  otherwise  almost  even,  smoky-mouse  color,  opaque, 
margin  naked.  Gills  adnexed  with  a  slight  decurrent  tooth,  slightly 
sinuate,  crowded,  narrow,  white  then  gray.  Stem  about  I  in.  long  and 
2  lines  thick,  base  slightly  bulbous,  tough,  slightly  striate,  naked,  dingy- 
gray.  Spores  elliptic-fusiform,  10-11x5-6/1. 

In  gardens,  on  dung-hills,  etc.  Small,  tough,  color  dingy,  without 
a  trace  of  violet  tinge.  Massee. 

Edible.  Cooks  tender,  and  is  of  good  flavor,  notwithstanding  its 
name,  which  in  no  way  applies. 

T.  Subpulvenilen'tlim  Pers. — slightly  dusty.  Pileus  1-2  Y*  in.  across, 
convex  then  plane  or  depressed  in  center,  even,  innately  pruinose, 
hoary,  white,  whitish,  grayish,  margin  extending  as  a  slight  rim  in- 
curved beyond  gills.  Flesh  white,  thick,  firm,  liygrophanous.  Gills 
rounded  without  a  tooth,  close,  narrow,  white.  Stem  2-3  in.  long, 
3-5  lines  thick,  equal,  solid,  somewhat  striate,  whitish. 

Spores  5x3/4  Massee ;  4x3/4  W.G.S. 

Biological  grounds,  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Philadelphia.  May 
to  November,  1898.  Mcllvaine. 

A  species  one  is  glad  to  find.  It  has  a  healthy  substantial  presence 
full  of  promise.  It  is  a  solitary  grower  among  grass  on  lawns  and  past- 
ures, but  its  individuals  are  neighborly.  Caps  and  stems  are  excellent. 


82 


PLATE  XXIV 


85 


Leucosporae 

CLITO'CYBE  Fr. 

Gr. — sloping.      (From  the  depression  of  the  pileus.) 

PileilS  generally  fleshy,  becoming  thin  toward  the  margin,  flexible  or  ciitocybe. 
tough,  plane  or  depressed,  margin  involute.  Gills  adnate  or  decurrent, 
never  sinuate.  Stem  confluent  and  homogeneous  with  flesh  of  pileus, 
somewhat  elastic,  with  a  spongy  stuffing,  frequently  becoming  hollow, 
externally  fibrous.  Universal  veil  when  present  conspicuous  on  the 
pileus  like  frost  or  silky  dew,  but  commonly  wanting. 

Growing  on  the  ground,  frequently  in  groups.  The  thinner  and 
hygrophanous  species  appear  late  in  autumn.  Some  are  quite  fragrant. 
Collybia,  Mycena  and  Omphalia  are  separated  by  their  stems  being  car- 
tilaginous, not  externally  fibrous  as  in  Ciitocybe.  Tricholoma  by  its 
sinuate  gills. 

Variations  in  species  of  Ciitocybe  are  great.  A  few  are  easily  fixed 
in  the  genus,  but  many  of  them  will  puzzle  the  amateur  and  perplex 
the  expert.  The  gills  are  always  attached  to  the  stem,  and  usually  run 
down  it.  They  are  not  notched  next  to  the  stem  as  in  Tricholoma. 

Like  Tricholoma,  Ciitocybe  has  many  species,  most  of  which  are  com- 
mon, and  are  probably  edible.  I  therefore  give  Professor  Peck's  de- 
scription of  all  Clitocybes  thus  far  submitted  to  him. 

I  know  of  but  one  species  which  is  injurious  to  some  persons — Ciito- 
cybe illudens.  Many  eat  and  enjoy  it.  It  does  not  agree  with  others. 
A  few  untried  species  are  suspicious  to  a  like  extent.  Ciitocybe  illu- 
dens possesses  the  property  of  phosphorescence. 

Several  species  of  Ciitocybe  have  not  been  seen  or  tested  by  me,  nor 
have  I  information  that  these  have  been  tested. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

A.    PILEUS  FLESHY,  OFTEN  PALLID  WHEN  DRY,  not  hygrophanous. 

Flesh  firm,  not  watery,  nor  splitting  into  plates.  Those  which  turn 
pale  in  drying  differ  from  Series  B  by  their  silky  luster. 

DlSClFORMES  (disk-shaped).      Page  85. 

Pileus  somewhat  equally  fleshy ;  convex  then  plane  or  depressed,  ob- 
tuse, regular;  gills  at  first  adnate  or  regularly  adnato-decurrent.  Nor- 
mally solitary. 

83 


Agaricaceee 

ciitocybe.       *  Pileus  gray  or  brownish. 

*  Pileus  violet  or  reddish. 

*  Pileus  becoming  yellowish. 
****  Pileus  greenish,  becoming  pale. 

*  Pileus  white,  becoming  shining  white. 

Distinguished  from  white  hygrophanous  species  and  white  species  of 
Paxillus. 

DlFFORMES  (irregularly  shaped).      Page  94. 

Pileus  fleshy  in  the  center,  thin  at  the  margin,  at  first  umbonate,  then 
expanded  and  depressed,  irregular.  Gills  unequally  decurrent,  longer 
in  some  places  than  in  others,  sometimes  rounded  on  one  side  of  the 
stem  or  only  reaching  it  as  in  Tricholoma.  Stem  somewhat  cartilagi- 
nous externally,  but  fibrous. 

Cespitose,  often  grown  together  at  base,  variable  in  form,  sometimes 
solitary. 

INFUNDIBULIFORMES  (funnel-shaped).     Page  98. 

Pileus  becoming  thin  from  the  fleshy  center  to  the  margin,  at  length 
funnel-shaped  or  deeply  umbilicately  depressed  in  the  center.  Stem 
spongy,  externally  fibrous.  Gills  deeply  and  equally  decurrent  from 
the  first.  Pileus  often  becoming  discolored  or  pallid,  not  hygrophanous. 

*  Pileus  colored  or  becoming  pale,  the  surface  (at  least  under  a  lens) 
innately  flocculose  or  silky,  bibulous,  not  moist. 

*  Pileus  colored  or  pallid,  smooth,  moist  in  rainy  weather. 

*  Pileus  shining  whitish,  with  scattered  superficial  flocci  or  becom- 
ing smooth. 

B.    PILEUS  FLESHY-MEMBRANACEOUS. 
Flesh  thin,  soft,  watery,  hygrophanous. 

CYATHIFORMES  (cup-shaped).     Page  104. 

Flesh  of  pileus  thin,  consisting  of  two  separable  plates,  disk  not  com- 
pact, hygrophanous,  depressed  then  cup-shaped ;  gills  at  first  adnate 
then  decurrent,  descending,  straight.  Color  dingy  when  moist. 

ORBIFORMES  (round-shaped).     Page  109. 

Pileus  somewhat  fleshy,  hygrophanous.  convex  then  flattened  or  de- 

84 


Leucosporae 

pressed,  polished,  not  squamulose  nor  mealy;    gills  plane,  horizontal,  cntocybe. 
thin,  crowded,  adnate  or  decurrent  with  a  small  tooth.      Color  dingy  or 
becoming  watery  pale. 

*  Gills  becoming  ash-colored.      Pileus  at  first  dark. 
**  Gills  whitish.      Pileus  becoming  pale. 

VERSIFORMES  (variable  in  shape).     Page  1 06. 

Pileus  thin,  convex  then  deformed,  tough,  more  or  less  squamulose 
or  furfuraceous ;  gills  adnate,  broad,  rather  thick,  generally  distant. 
Color  hygrophanous. 

*  Pileus  squalid  or  brownish  with  dark  squamules.     None  known  to 
be  edible. 

**  Pileus  bright,  of  one  color. 

Series  A. 

I. — DISCIFOR'MES. 

*  Pileus  gray  or  brownish. 

C.  nebllla'risBatsch. — nebula,  a  cloud.  (Plate  XXIV,  fig.  7,  p.  82.) 
The  Clouded  clitocybe,  Clitocybe  nebularis,  takes  its  name  from  the 
clouded-gray  appearance  of  its  thick  cap,  which  is  at  first  convex,  but 
when  mature,  either  flat  or  a  little  depressed.  Its  flesh  is  white,  thick- 
est in  the  middle,  and  in  a  vertical  section  is  seen  to  taper  rapidly  down- 
ward into  the  stem.  The  gills  are  close  together  and  rather  narrow  for 
the  size  of  the  plant.  They  are  white  or  yellowish-white.  The  stout 
solid  stem  usually  tapers  upward  from  the  base  and  is  whitish. 

The  cap  is  two  to  four  inches  or  more  broad,  the  stem  one  to  two 
inches  long  and  about  half  an  inch  thick.  The  Clouded  mushroom 
grows  in  woods,  and  sometimes  forms  large  tufts  or  clusters  among  fallen 
leaves.  It  is  found  in  autumn,  but  is  not  very  common  in  this  country. 
Authors  differ  in  their  estimate  of  the  edible  qualities  of  this  mushroom, 
but  the  more  recent  ones  generally  agree  in  classing  it  as  edible .  ' '  Mush- 
rooms and  Their  Use,"  C.  H.  Peck. 

Spores  4.5x3/4  Cooke /  elliptical  6x3.5/4  Massee ;  3x4/4  W.G.S.  • 

There  has  been  great  diversity  of  opinion  as  to  the  edibility  of  this 
species  on  the  continent.  Cordier  and  a  friend  suffered  from  it.  Paulet 
counseled  mistrust. 

85 


Agaricaceae 

cntocybe.  This  fungus  is  quite  common  in  the  West  Virginia  mountains  and  in 
some  parts  of  Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey,  where  I  have  found  it.  It 
is,  however,  limited  to  localities.  It  is  one  of  my  favorites,  being  of 
marked  flavor  and  agreeable  consistency.  I  have  not  known  it  to  harm 
anone  . 


C.  cla'vipes  Pers.  —  clava,  a  club;  pes,  a  foot.      Pileus 


(Plate 


-^z    n. 

across,  rather  convex  at  first,  soon 
plane,  at  length  almost  obconical, 
very  obtuse,  even,  glabrous,  dry, 
sometimes  all  one  color,  brown, 
sooty,  livid-gray,  etc.,  sometimes 
whitish  towards  the  margin,  very 
rarely  entirely  white.  Flesh  loose  in 
texture,  white,  thin  at  the  margin. 
Gills  deeply  decurrent,  continued 
down  the  stem  as  straight  lines, 
rather  distant,  flaccid,  quite  entire, 
broad,  entirely  and  persistently  white. 
Stem  2  in.  long,  base  Yz  in.  and 
more  thick>  conical|y  attenuated  up- 
rather fibrillose,  livid,  sooty,  solid,  spongy  within.'  Spores 


CLITOCYBE  CLAVIPES. 
About  two-thirds  natural  size. 


ward, 
elliptical, 

In  woods,  especially  pine.  Resembling  C.  nebularis  in  color,  but 
quite  distinct.  Smell  pleasant,  entire  substance  soft  and  elastic,  fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  6-7x4^  Massee;  sub-ellipsoid,  5-7x3-4^  K.; 
6x8/4  W.G.S. 

Found  in  pine  woods  of  New  Jersey,  and  under  spruce  in  West 
Virginia.  Its  substance  is  spongy,  therefore  does  not  stew  well.  Cooked 
in  any  other  way  it  is  delicate  and  of  excellent  flavor. 

C.  gangraeno'sa  Fr.  —  gangrcena,  gangrene.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex 
then  plane,  obtuse,  whitish,  at  first  sprinkled  with  white  powder,  then 
naked,  variegated,  streaked.  Gills  slightly  decurrent,  arcuate,  crowded, 
dingy-white.  Stem  somewhat  bulbous,  soft,  striate,  spongy,  solid. 

Stinking;  large,  flesh  becoming  blackish  and  variegated  with  black. 
Stem  curved,  sometimes  excentric.  Pileus  whitish,  here  and  there 
greenish,  livid,  etc.  Fries. 

86 


LeucosporsQ 

Yar.  nigres'cens  Lasch.     Whitish;   pileus  thin,  soft,  at  first  convex,  ciitocybe. 
obtuse  then  plane,  somewhat  umbonate,  and  somewhat  depressed ;  gills 
decurrent,  very  much  crowded,  narrow,  stem  solid,  downy. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  I1i-i>2   in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick. 

Odor  rather  sweet,  taste  unpleasant.      Cooke. 

New  Jersey,  Haddonfield,  pine  woods.     July  to  August.     Mcllrainc. 

This  Clitocybe  is  in  every  way  unattractive.      It  is  not  poisonous,  but 
no  one  would  care  to  eat  it. 


CLITOCYBE  MEDIA. 
One-half  natural   size. 


C.  me'dia  Pk. — medius,  middle..  Because  intermediate  between  C. 
nebularis  and  C.  clavipes.  PileuS^plate  XXVIJ- 
fleshy,  convex,  becoming  plane  or 
slightly  depressed,  dry,  dark  grayish- 
brown,  the  margin  often  wavy  or  ir- 
regular, flesh  white,  taste  mild.  Gills 
broad,  subdistant,  adnate  or  decur- 
rent, whitish, .the  interspaces  some- 
what venose.  Stem  equal  or  but 
slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  solid, 
elastic,  not  polished,  colored  like  or 
a  little  paler  than  the  pileus.  Spores 
elliptical,  8x5/n. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2 

in.  long,  4—8  lines  thick.      Mossy  ground  in  deep  woods. 
September. 

This  species  is  intermediate  between  C.  nebularis  and  C.  clavipes. 
In  its  general  appearance,  and  in  the  character  of  the  pileus  and  stem, 
it  resembles  C.  nebularis,  but  in  the  character  of  the  more  distant  gills 
and  in  the  size  of  the  spores  it  is  nearer  C.  clavipes,  of  which  it  might 
perhaps  be  regarded  as  a  variety.  Two  forms  are  distinguishable.  In 
one  the  gills  are  more  distant,  slightly  rounded  behind,  and  adnate  or 
abruptly  terminated ;  in  the  other  they  are  closer  and  more  distinctly 
decurrent.  The  plant  is  edible.  Peck,  42d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

I  have  known  this  fungus  very  favorably  since  1883,  and  regard  it  as 
one  of  the  best.  I  have  seen  it  in  the  West  Virginia  mountains  only, 
but  it  will  probably  be  found  in  cool,  shaded,  high  localities  all  over  the 
country.  Both  it  and  the  C.  nebularis  are  well  worthy  df  search. 


North  Elba. 


Agaricaceae 

cntocybe.  C.  viles'ceilS  Pk. — vilesco,  of  little  value.  PileilS  convex,  then  plane 
or  depressed,  often  irregular,  glabrous,  slightly  pruinose  on  the  in- 
volute margin,  brown  or  grayish-brown,  becoming  paler  with  age,  often 
concentrically  rivulose.  Gills  close,  adnate  or  decurrent,  cinereous, 
sometimes  tinged  with  dingy-yellow.  Stem  short,  solid,  sometimes 
compressed,  grayish-brown,  with  a  whitish  tomentum  at  the  base. 
Spores  subglobose  or  broadly  elliptical,  5-6. S/A;  flesh  whitish-gray, 
odor  slight. 

Plant  gregarious,  1-2  in.  high.  Pileus  1-1.5  in.  broad.  Stem 
1-2  lines  thick.  Grassy  pastures.  Jamesville,  August.  Peck,  33d 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

A  pale  form  of  this  species  grows  on  sandy  soil,  in  which  the  pileus 
is  smoky  white,  but  it  becomes  grayish-brown  in  drying.  The  mycelium 
binds  together  a  mass  of  sand,  so  that  when  the  plant  is  taken  up 
carefully  a  little  ball  of  sandy  soil  adheres  to  the  base  of  the  stem.  The- 
stem  is  sometimes  pruinose.  The  flavor  is  mild  and  agreeable.  Peck, 
50th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Sometimes  plentiful  about  Philadelphia.  Edible.  Caps  tender,  slight 
flavor. 

C.  COmitia'lis  Fr. — belonging  to  an  assembly.  PileilS  about  i  >a  in. 
across,  fleshy,  convex,  then  plane,  obtuse,  even,  glabrous,  rather  moist 
but  not  hygrophanous,  every  part  colored  alike,  sooty-umber,  almost 
black.  Flesh  firm,  white.  Gills  very  slightly  decurrent,  horizontal, 
plane,  thin,  crowded,  white.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick, 
equally  attenuated  upward  from  the  base,  glabrous,  sooty,  elastic, 
stuffed.  Spores  elliptical,  7-8x4/1. 

Damp  places  among  mosses  in  pine  woods,  etc.  Distinguished  by 
the  blackish  color  of  the  almost  flat  pileus,  and  the  very  slightly  decur- 
rent gills.  Somewhat  allied  to  C.  clavipes,  but  firmer,  smaller  and  in- 
odorous. Massee. 

Rather  rare.  Found  in  New  Jersey  among  pines;  in  Pennsylvania 
in  mixed  woods. 

Edible.      Good  texture  and  flavor. 

**  Violet  or  reddish. 

C.  cyanophse'a  Fr.  Gr. — blue.  Pileus  3-4  in.  broad,  becoming 
bluish-dusky-brown,  compact,  convex  then  plane,  obtuse,  smooth. 

88 


PLATE  XXVII. 


Photographed  by  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist. 

CLITOCYBE  MONADELPHA. 


Leucosporae 

Stem  3   in.   long,  I   in.  thick  at  the  base,  attenuated  upward,  robust,  cntocybe. 
solid,  smooth,  becoming  azure-blue  when  young,  abruptly   white  at  the 
apex .    Gills  deeply  decurrent,  crowded,  violaceous,  then  becoming  pale. 

New  York,  Albion.  In  woods.  October.  Edible.  Dr.  E.  L. 
dishing. 

Specimens  sent  to  me  by  Dr.  Gushing  are  the  first  and  only  ones  of 
the  species  I  have  seen.  The  description  is  accurate.  The  spores  were 
cream  color. 

C.  monadel  pha  Morg. — monas,  single;  adelphos,  a  brother.  From 
its  cespitose  habit.  (Plate  XXVII.)  Densely  cespitose.  Pileus  fleshy, 
convex  then  depressed,  at  first  glabrous,  then  scaly,  honey  color,  vary- 
ing to  pallid-brownish  or  reddish.  Stem  elongated,  solid,  crooked, 
twisted,  fibrous,  tapering  at  the  base,  pallid-brownish  or  flesh  color. 
Gills  short,  decurrent,  not  crowded,  pallid  flesh  color.  Spores  white, 
a  little  irregular,  7.5x5.5/4. 

On  the  ground  in  wet  woods,  spring  to  late  autumn.  Pileus  1-3  in. 
Stem  3-7  in.  Morgan. 

Grassy  places.  Menands.  Albany  county.  September.  Edible. 
Resembling  Armillaria  mellea,  but  distinguished  from  it  by  the  absence 
of  a  collar  from  the  stem,  by  the  more  decidedly  decurrent  lamellse  and 
by  the  solid  stem.  It  is  also  more  agreeable  in  flavor.  It  is  related  to 
C.  illudens  in  habit  and  manner  of  growth.  Peck,  5ist  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

• 

Spores  8x5/4  Peck. 

October  15,  1898.  Identified  by  Professor  Peck.  September  until 
frost. 

Grows  in  great  clusters  about  roots,  etc.,  at  Mt.  Gretna.  Frequently 
much  water-soaked  and  uninviting.  Taste  variable,  sometimes  strong, 
woody. 

It  is  edible,  but  care  should  be  exercised  in  collecting  to  get  young 
fresh  groups. 

C.  SOCia'lis  Fr. — socius,  a  companion.  Pileus  about  I  in.  broad, 
pale-yellowish  with  a  reddish  tinge,  fleshy,  convex  then  expanded, 
acutely  umbonate  especially  when  young,  even,  smooth,  dry.  Flesh 
moderately  thin,  white.  Stem  i  in.  long,  2  lines  or  a  little  more  thick, 

89 


Agaricaceae 

ciitocybe.  solid,  fibrous,  commonly  ascending,  smooth,  reddish,  the  rooting  base 
hairy,    (jills  plano-decurrent,  scarcely  crowded,  becoming  yellow.   Fries. 
A  very  pretty  species,  densely  gregarious,  inodorous.     The  stem  is 
sheathed-hairy  at  the  base  like  Marasmius  peronatus.      Its  greatest  af- 
finity is  with  A.  vernicosus,  of  which  it  is  perhaps  a  variety.    Sf  even  son . 
Quite  common  in  pine  woods  of  New  Jersey.     Though  small,  goodly 
messes  of  it  may  be  gathered  from  its  patches.    The  caps  make  a  pleas- 
ing dish. 

**  Pileus  becoming  yellow. 

None  reported  as  tested  for  edibility. 

****  Pileus  greenish  or  becoming  pallid. 

C.  odo'ra  Bull. — odortts,  fragrant.  (Plate  XXIV,  fig.  9,  p.  82.) 
Fragrant.  PileilS  about  2  in.  across,  flesh  rather  thick,  tough;  soon 
plane  and  wavy,  even,  smooth,  pale  dingy  green,  silky  when  dry.  Gills 
adnate,  rather  close,  broad,  greenish  or  pallid.  Stem  about  1—1/2  in. 
long,  2  lines  thick,  base  incrassated,  elastic,  stuffed.  Spores  elliptical, 
6— 8x4— 5/t.  In  woods.  Massee. 

Readily  distinguished  by  the  strong,  aniseed  smell,  dingy  bluish- 
green  pileus,  and  the  pallid  or  greenish  gills. 

Sometimes  somewhat  cespitose.  Tough;  size  variable,  color  varies 
between  pale  green  and  greenish-gray,  usually  all  colored  alike,  but  the 
gills  are  sometimes  white;  smell  pleasant,  spicy,  especially  when  dry. 
Fries. 

Spores  6xs/x  K.;  8x4/x  B. 

A  rather  delicate,  even  exquisite  dish.      Cooke. 

Edible.  Exceedingly  spicy.  The  flavor  is  pleasant,  but  rather 
strong.  A  few  specimens  mixed  with  others  of  like  texture  but  less 
flavor  make  a  tasty  dish. 

C.  rivulo'sa  Pers. — rivus,  a  stream.  (Named  from  rivulet-like  streaks 
on  pileus.)  Pileus  1-3  in.  across,  flesh  thin,  convex  then  plane  and 
depressed,  obtuse,  often  undulately  lobed,  dingy  flesh-color  or  reddish, 
becoming  pale,  glabrous,  then  covered  with  a  whitish  down.  Gills 
slightly  decurrent,  broad,  rather  crowded,  pinkish-white.  Stem  about 
2  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick,  rather  fibrillose,  tough,  elastic,  whitish, 
stuffed.  Spores  elliptical,  6x3.5/1.  Massee. 

90 


Leucosporse 

Among  grass  by  road-sides,  etc.  cntocybe. 

Not  common,  but  when  found  it  is  basket-filling.  I  have  found  it  in 
Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey  and  West  Virginia. 

Edible.  The  caps  are  rather  tough  but  become  glutinous  and  tender 
when  well  cooked.  Flavor  fine. 

*****  Pileus  white,  shining  when  dry. 

C.  cemssa'ta  Fr. — cerussa,  white  lead.  Pileus  1^-3  in.  across, 
flesh  thick  at  the  disk,  becoming  thin  toward  the  margin  ;  convex  then  al- 
most plane,  obtuse,  even,  minutely  floccose  then  almost  glabrous,  white. 
Gills  adnate,  then  decurrent,  very  much  crowded,  thin,  permanently 
white.  Stem  about  2  in.  long,  3—5  lines  thick,  smooth,  tough,  elastic, 
naked,  spongy  and  solid,  white.  Among  dead  leaves,  etc. 

Taste  mild,  smell  almost  obsolete.  Stem  rather  thickened  at  the  base 
and  often  tomentose.  Pileus  said  to  be  gibbous,  but  not  umbonate  nor 
becoming  rufescent.  Gills  not  changing  to  yellowish.  Fries. 

Spores  3/*  W.G.S. 

Edible.     Good. 

C.  phyllopll'ila  Fr.  Gr. — leaf-loving.  Whitish-tan.  Pileus  1-3  in. 
across,  rather  fleshy,  convex  then  plane,  becoming  umbilicate  and  de- 
pressed, sometimes  wavy,  smooth  and  even.  Gills  thin,  subdistant, 
white  then  tinged  with  ocher,  rather  broad,  very  slightly  decurrent. 
Stem  2-3  in.  long,  equal,  stuffed  then  hollow,  whitish,  tough,  silky- 
fibrillose.  Spores  6x4/4. 

Among  leaves  in  woods,  etc. 

Spores  6x4/1.  Massee;  6x3/1*  W.G.S.;  5.5x2.87*  Morgan. 

Found  at  Devon,  Pa.,  1888  ;  Angora,  West  Philadelphia,  1897.  It is 
equal  to  the  Pleurotus  ostreatus  (oyster  mushroom)  in  texture,  but  not 
so  high  in  flavor.  Well  cooked  it  is  an  agreeable  and  valuable  food. 

C.  pitliyoph'ila  Seer.  Gr. — pine-loving.  Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  dead- 
white  when  moist,  shining  whitish  when  dry,  fleshy  but  thin,  rather 
plane,  umbilicate,  at  length  irregularly  shaped,  repand  and  undulato- 
lobed,  even,  smooth,  flaccid,  the  margin  slightly  striate  when  old.  Stem 
somewhat  hollow,  rounded  then  compressed,  equal,  even,  smooth,  ob- 
soletely  or  scarcely  pruinose  at  the  apex,  white  tomentose  at  the  (not 

91 


Agaricacese 

ciitocybe.  bulbous)  base.  Gills  adnate,  somewhat  decurrent,  very  crowded,  planev 
2-3  lines  broad,  distinct,  quite  entire,  white. 

Odor  not  remarkable,  but  pleasant.  Gregarious,  somewhat  cespi- 
tose ;  white  indeed,  but  when  moist  watery  and  somewhat  hygrophanous, 
in  which  it  evidently  differs  from  A.  phyllophila.  A.  tuba,  which  ap- 
pears in  the  same  places,  is  very  like  it.  Stevenson. 

Spores  6-7x4^  B. 

Massachusetts,  Sprague ;  New  York,  Peck,  Bull.  1887. 

Albion,  Orleans  county,  N.  Y.,  October,  1898,  Dr.  Gushing. 

Several  specimens  received  were  clearly  referable  to  C.  pithyophila, 
though  varying  in  having  caps  deeply  depressed  but  not  umbilicate. 
The  white  tomentosity  at  base  was  present  but  indistinct. 

Four  specimens  were  eaten  and  found  good.  Eaten  enjoyably  by 
Dr.  Gushing. 

C.  fus'cipes  Pk. — ftisctis,  dirty;  pes,  a  foot.  Pileus  thin,  broadly 
convex  or  plane,  umbilicate,  glabrous,  whitish  and  striatulate  when 
moist,  pure  white  when  dry,  odor  and  taste  farinaceous.  Gills  nearly 
plane,  subdistant,  adnate  or  slightly  decurrent,  white.  Stem  equal, 
glabrous  or  slightly  mealy  at  the  top,  hollow,  dingy  brown  when  moist, 
paler  when  dry.  Spores  globose,  5-6/4. 

PlleilS  4—8  lines  broad.  Stem  about  I  in.  long.  Under  pine  trees. 
Carrollton.  September.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Edible.  Its  small  size  gives  it  minor  importance,  but  a  quantity  of 
it  makes  an  excellent  meal. 

C.  can'dicans  Pers. — candico,  to  be  shining  white.  Entirely  white. 
Pileus  about  i  in.  across,  flesh  thin,  convex  then  plane  or  slightly 
depressed,  umbilicate,  regular  or  slightly  excentric,  even,  with  an 
adpressed  silkiness,  shining,  shining  white  when  dry.  Gills  adnate 
then  slightly  decurrent,  crowded,  very  thin,  narrow,  straight.  Stem 
1-2  in.  long,  1—2  lines  thick,  even,  glabrous,  cartilaginous,  polished, 
equal,  hollow,  base  incurved,  rooting,  downy.  Spores  broadly  elliptical 
or  subglobose,  5-6x4^.  Massee. 

Among  damp  fallen  leaves,  etc. 

Entirely  white,  small,  rather  tough;  approaching  Omphalia  in  the 
structure  of  the  stem.  The  following  form  is  described  by  Fries  as 
occurring  in.  pine  woods:  Stem  thin,  flexuous,  base  glabrous;  pileus 

92 


Leucosporae 

plane,   not   umbilicate,   naked    (without  silky  down).      Gills    scarcely  cutocybe. 
decurrent. 

A  remarkable  form  but  scarcely  to  be  separated  as  a  species.     Fries. 

Quite  common  in  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey.  The 
caps  are  excellent  when  well  cooked. 

C.  dealba'ta  Sow. — dealbo,  to  whitewash.  Pileus  about  I  in.  or  a 
little  more  broad,  white,  slightly  fleshy,  tough,  convex  then  plane  and 
at  length  revolute  and  undulated,  always  dry  (not  watery  in  rainy 
weather),  even,  smooth,  somewhat  shining,  but  as  if  innately  pruinose 
under  a  lens.  Flesh  thin,  arid,  white.  Stem  i  in.  long,  2  lines  thick, 
stuffed,  wholly  fibrous,  at  length  also  tubed,  equal,  but  often  ascending, 
whitish,  mealy  at  the  apex.  Gills  adnate,  scarcely  decurrent,  thin, 
crowded,  white. 

Pileus  sometimes  orbicular,  sometimes  upturned  and  wavy.  Odor 
weak,  pleasant,  but  not  very  remarkable.  Most  distinct  from  A.  can- 
dicans  in  the  nature  of  the  stem. 

Edible.  Its  top  is  exceedingly  like  ivory.  Its  charming  flavor  is  ex- 
ceeded by  very  few  other  fungi.  Stevenson. 

Among  leaves  and  grass.     Woodland  Cemetery,  Philadelphia. 

This  charming  fungus  is  common  over  the  land.  I  have  known  it 
since  1881,  and  found  it  from  North  Carolina  to  West  Virginia. 

C.  robus'ta  Pk. — robustus,  stout.  Pileus  thick,  firm,  at  first  convex, 
soon  plane  or  slightly  depressed  in  the  center,  glabrous,  white,  the  mar- 
gin at  first  involute  or  decurved,  naked.  Flesh  white.  Gills  narrow, 
close,  decurrent,  whitish.  Stem  stout,  rather  short,  solid,  glabrous, 
equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  often  with  a  bulbous  base,  white. 
Spores  elliptical,  8x4-5^. 

Pileus  3-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  8-12  lines  thick. 

Woods  among  fallen  leaves.  Catskill  mountains.  September  to 
November. 

This  large  and  robust  fungus  is  closely  allied  to  C.  Candida  Bres., 
from  which  it  differs  in  the  naked  margin  of  the  pileus,  the  absence  of 
any  marked  odor  and  especially  in  the  more  elliptical  shape  of  its  spores. 
The  same  plant  has  been  collected  in  Maryland  by  Mr.  L.  J.  Atwater, 
who  considers  it  edible,  having  eaten  it  with  satisfaction  and  safety. 
Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

93 


Agaricacese 

Clitocybe.  This  fungus  is  quite  plentiful  in  Pennsylvania  and  in  open  oak  woods 
in  New  Jersey.  Its  size  and  sometimes  gregarious  growth  give  it  a 
permanent  food  value.  Its  texture  is  coarse,  but  when  cooked  it  is 
highly  satisfactory. 

C.  gallina'cea  Scop.-t-/w//wwf  a  hen.  Application  not  apparent. 
White;  acrid.  Pileus  1-1%  in.  across,  rather  fleshy  at  the  disk,  mar- 
gin thin;  convex  then  depressed,  but  not  funnel-shaped,  even,  dry, 
opaque.  Gills  slightly  decurrent,  narrow,  crowded,  thin.  Stem  about 
1%  in.  long,  2  lines  thick,  equal,  even,  solid.  Among  grass,  moss,  etc. 

Resembling  C.  dealbata  in  form,  but  smaller,  opaque,  dingy-white, 
taste  somewhat  acrid.  Stem  solid,  but  not  cartilaginous,  about  2  in. 
long,  equal,  ascending  or  flexuous,  excentric,  at  first  floccosely  mealy, 
always  opaque,  white.  Pileus  slightly  fleshy,  convex  then  plane,  not 
depressed,  obtuse,  %  —  i  in.  broad,  unequal,  dry,  pruinosely  hoary; 
flesh  white,  compact,  but  thin.  Gills  adnato-decurrent,  thin,  crowded, 
plane.  Fries. 

It  loses  its  acridity  in  cooking  and  is  quite  equal  to  C.  dealbata. 

C.  tmnci'cola  Pk. — truncus,  trunk  of  a  tree.  Pileus  thin,  firm, 
expanded  or  slightly  depressed  in  the  center,  smooth,  dry,  white.  Gills 
narrow,  thin,  crowded,  adnate-decurrent.  Stem  equal,  stuffed,  smooth, 
often  excentric  and  curved,  whitish. 

Plant  I  in.  high.      Pileus  I  in.  broad.      Stem  I  line  thick. 

Trunks  of  frondose  trees,  especially  maples.  Croghan.  September. 
Peck,  26th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  SxS.S/*  Morgan. 

Found  on  maple  trees  in  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Edible.  Good 
quality. 

II. — DIFFOR'MES. 

C.  decas'tes  Fr.  Gr. — a  decade;  a  number  of  ten.  From  the  stems 
being  often  joined  in  bundles  of  about  ten.  Densely  cespitose.  Pileus 
5—12  in.  across,  soon  almost  plane,  disk  gibbous  or  obtuse;  margin  at 
first  shortly  incurved,  then  expanded,  very  much  waved  and  often  lobed, 
even,  glabrous,  dingy-brown  or  livid  when  moist,  pale  clay-color  when 
dry.  Flesh  exceedingly  thin  except  at  the  disk,  whitish.  Stem  4-7 
in.  long,  %  —  \%  in.  thick,  usually  slightly  thinner  upward,  rather  soft, 

94 


PLATE  XXVIII. 


Leucosporaa 

entirely  fibrous,  solid,  white,  usually  curved  and  ascending,  coalescent  ciitocybe. 
into  a  solid  mass  at  the  base.      Gills  adnato-decurrent,  or  often  more  or 
less  adnexed,  up  to  %  in.  broad,  rather  narrowed  towards  the  margin, 
often  wavy.      Spores  globose,  smooth,  4/4  diameter. 

On  the  ground  and  on  sawdust. 

Albion,  Orleans  county,  N.  Y.,  Dr.  dishing.      October,  1898. 

On  ground  in  grassy  places  (Woodland  Cemetery,  May  22,  1897). 
Mel r lvalue. 

Particularly  welcome  to  toadstool  lovers  are  the  early  comers.  The 
present  species  is  among  the  first.  It  is  rich  in  quantity,  substance  and 
flavor. 

C.  mul'ticeps  Pk. — multus,  many;  caput,  a  head.  (Plate  XXVIII, 
p.  94.)  Pileus  fleshy,  thin  except  on  the  disk,  firm,  convex,  slightly 
moist  in  wet  weather,  whitish,  grayish  or  yellowish-gray.  Flesh  white, 
taste  mild.  Gills  close,  adnate  and  slightly  decurrent,  whitish.  Stems 
densely  cespitose,  equal  or  slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  solid  or  stuffed, 
firm,  elastic,  slightly  pruinose  at  the  apex,  whitish.  Spores  globose, 
5-8*. 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Open  places,  grassy  ground,  etc.  Albany  and  Sandlake.  June  and 
October.  This  species  forms  dense  tufts,  often  composed  of  many  in- 
dividuals. In  this  respect  it  is  related  to  such  species  as  C.  tumulosa, 
C.  aggregata  and  C.  illudens.  From  the  crowding  together  of  many 
individuals  the  pileus  is  often  irregular.  Sometimes  the  disk  is  brown- 
ish and  occasionally  slightly  silky.  The  gills  are  sometimes  slightly 
sinuate,  thus  indicating  a  relationship  to  the  species  of  Tricholoma.  The 
taste,  though  mild,  is  somewhat  oily  and  unpleasant.  The  plants  appear 
in  wet,  rainy  weather,  either  early  in  the  season  or  in  autumn.  Speci- 
mens have  been  sent  to  me  from  Massachusetts  by  R.  K.  Macadam  and 
Professor  Farlow,  and  from  Pennsylvania  by  Dr.  W.  Herbst.  Peck, 
43d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  In  May,  and  in  autumn 
months.  Very  variable  in  size,  color,  shape  of  gills,  texture  and  taste. 
Mcllvaine. 

The  early  spring  clusters  are  remarkable  for  their  tenderness  and 
excellence.  Clusters  of  hundreds  of  individuals  grew  abundantly  at  Mt. 
Gretna  in  May,  1899.  When  the  fungus  was  young  the  gills  were 

95 


Agaricaceae 

Clitocybe.  sometimes  adnate,  almost  free,  often  decurrent.     The  varying  color  of 
oysters  is  well  seen  in  C.  multiceps. 

Edible.  They  should  be  well  cooked.  The  addition  of  a  little  lemon 
juice  or  sherry  conceals  a  slight  raw  taste  sometimes  present. 

C.  illu'dens  Schw. — mocking,  deceiving.  (Frontispiece.)  Pileus 
fleshy,  convex  or  expanded,  smooth,  generally  with  a  small  umbo. 
Gills  not  crowded,  unequally  decurrent,  some  of  them  branched,  nar- 
rowed toward  each  end,  the  edge,  in  dry  specimens,  discolored.  Stem 
firm,  solid,  long,  smooth,  tapering  at  the  base. 

Height   5-8  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  4-6  in.      Stem  6-8  lines  thick. 

Spores  4- 5  yx  Peck. 

Grows  in  clumps  or  large  masses  about  stumps  or  decaying  trees  from 
August  to  October.  Its  bright,  deep  yellow  is  attractive  from  a  distance. 
As  many  as  fifty  plants  may  form  a  cluster.  Cap  from  2-6  in.,  fleshy, 
convex  or  expanded,  often  with  a  raised  center  directly  over  the  stem; 
flesh  juicy  and  yellow;  gills  yellow,  widely  separated,  running  down 
stem  unequally;  stem  long,  firm,  solid,  smooth,  tapering  toward  base. 
When  cooked  the  taste  is  rather  saponaceous.  Strong  stomachs  can 
retain  a  meal  of  them,  but  the  fungus  generally  sickens  the  eater. 
Many  testings  show  it  to  contain  a  minor  poison.  It  is  not  deadly,  but 
should  not  be  eaten.  Bull.  No.  2,  Phila.  Myc.  Center. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  23-49.  Well  known  in  southern  states. 
Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller. 

The  mysterious  property  of  phosphorescence  is  possessed  by  this 
fungus.  As  heat  is  known  to  develop  in  masses  of  the  fungus  it  is  of 
interest  to  know  whether  it  is  from  the  phosphorescence  or  a  ferment. 
Its  radiance  by  night  surpasses  its  splendor  by  day.  Mr.  H.I.  Miller, 
of  Terre  Haute,  Ind.,  first  drew  the  writer's  attention  to  this  quality. 
A  large  box  of  specimens  sent  by  him  retained  their  luminous  quality 
after  three  days  of  travel  to  such  an  extent  that  the  print  of  a  newspaper 
could  be  read  when  held  close  to  the  mass. 

Mr.  Miller  writes:  "There  is  something  about  this  fungus  which 
generates  heat.  When  I  bring  in  a  basketful  of  it.  for  the  pleasure  its 
phosphorescence  affords  my  friends,  I  find  that  after  having  been  in  the 
6asket  for  two  or  three  hours,  and  while  piled  one  bunch  upon  top  of 
another,  that  to  insert  one's  hand  among  the  different  clusters  is  like 
putting  it  close  to  a  hot  stove." 

Q6 


Leucosporae 

This  fungus  is  so  inviting  in  quantity  and  beauty  that  one  turns  from  ciitocybe. 
it  with  a  regret  that  lingers.    Eaten  in  quantity  it  acts  upon  some  persons 
as   an   emetic.      I  have  several  times   eaten  of  it  without   other  than 
pleasurable  sensations,  but  persons  partaking  of  the  same  cooking  have 
been  sickened. 

C.  fumo'sa  Pers. — fumus,  smoke.  Pileus  1-3  in.  across,  fleshy,  mar- 
gin thin;  convex,  often  gibbous  when  young,  regular  or  wavy,  even, 
pellicle  not  separable,  glabrous,  sooty-brown,  soon  livid  or  gray  when 
dry.  Gills  adnate  in  regular  forms,  but  often  decurrent  when  the  pileus 
is  irregular,  crowded,  distinct,  grayish-white  from  the  first.  Stem  2—3 
in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick,  almost  equal,  often  twisted  or  curved,  gla- 
brous, dingy-white,  apex  mealy,  solid,  fibrous.  Spores  subglobose, 
5-6/x  diam. 

In  woods.     Autumn. 

Gregarious,  somewhat  cespitose,  tough,  rather  cartilaginous.  Pileus 
truly  obtuse,  never  streaked,  often  regular.  Smell  none.  Fries. 

Var.  po'lius.  Densely  and  connately  cespitose.  Pileus  convex, then 
plane,  obtuse,  smooth,  gray.  Stem  flexuous,  smooth.  Gills  crowded, 
whitish.  Edible.  Cooke,  1891. 

Var.  polius  found  growing  in  large  quantities  in  Boston  navy  yard  in 
stone  barn.  Determined  by  Professor  Peck.  A  fair  edible.  R.  K. 
Macadam. 

This  woods-growing  Ciitocybe  has  been  many  times  found  by  me  in 
a  hot-house  in  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  Professor  Peck  confirmed  my  iden- 
tification. Either  its  spores  or  mycelium  had  evidently  been  carried 
thither  in  the  wood-earth  used  by  florists.  The  hot-house  crops  ap- 
peared in  March,  and  continued  until  June. 

Several  of  the  plants  showed  an  effort  to  comply  with  some  condi- 
tion unusual  to  them,  by  producing  gills  upon  the  upper  side  of  the 
pileus.  Those  below  were  venose  and  crisped. 

This  wild  species  had  thus  been  brought  into  cultivation.  The  culti- 
vated plants  were  much  more  tender  than  the  wild.  Both  are  excellent. 

C.  COnnex'a  Pk. — connexus,  joined.  From  its  relation  to  Tricholoma. 
Pileus  thin,  convex  or  expanded,  subumbonate,  clothed  with  a  minute 
appressed  silkiness,  white,  the  margin  sometimes  faintly  tinged  with 

7  97 


Agaric  aceae 

cutocybe.  blue.  Grills  crowded,  narrow,  white  inclining  to  yellowish.  Stem 
equal  or  tapering  downward,  solid,  whitish. 

Plant  2-3  in.  high.     Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  2  lines  thick. 

Ground  in  woods.     Croghan.      September. 

The  gills  sometimes  terminate  rather  abruptly  and  are  not  strongly 
decurrent,  hence  it  might  easily  be  mistaken  for  a  Tricholoma.  The 
margin  of  the  pileus  is  sometimes  marked  with  slight  ridges  as  in  Ag. 
laterarius.  The  odor  is  weak  but  aromatic  and  agreeable.  Peck,  26th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Found  in  plenty  in  oak  woods  near  Philadelphia,  and  in  West  Vir- 
ginia; a  few  specimens  in  southern  New  Jersey.  Autumn. 

Edible,  and  quite  equal  to  most  of  the  Clitocybes. 

C.  tumulo'sa  Kalchbr. — tumulus,  a  mound.  Cespitose.  Pileus  1-2 
in.  across,  disk  fleshy,  margin  thin;  conico-convex  then  expanded,  ob- 
tusely umbonate  or  obtuse,  even,  glabrous,  brownish-umber,  becoming 
pale,  margin  drooping.  Grills  more  or  less  decurrent  or  slightly  emar- 
ginate,  crowded  narrow,  white,  then  grayish.  Stem  3—5  in.  long,  un- 
equal, usually  thicker  below,  minutely  downy,  pallid,  solid. 

On  the  ground  in  woods.  Spring  and  autumnal  months.  Readily 
distinguished  by  the  densely  clustered  habit,  and  the  umber  pileus. 
The  gills  are  very  variable,  sometimes  distinctly  decurrent,  at  others 
rounded  behind,  and  almost  resembling  a  Tricholoma.  Spores  sub- 
globose,  5-6/*.  Massee. 

California,  H.  and M.;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  42. 

Sent  to  me  by  Mrs.  Mary  Fuller,  Washington,  D.  C.  The  specimens 
eaten  were  of  good  consistency  and  flavor. 

III. — INFUNDIBULFOR'MES. 

*  Pileus  colored  or  becoming  pale,  etc.,  surface  innately  ftocculose  or 

silky  ;  not  moist. 

C.  gigante'a  Sow. — giganteus,  of  gigantic  size.  PileilS  6-10  in. 
across.  Flesh  rather  thin  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  fungus,  white, 
or  tinged  with  tan,  glabrous  when  moist,  slightly  flocculose  when  dry; 
margin  involute  then  spreading,  glabrous,  rather  coarsely  grooved. 
Gills  slightly  decurrent,  broad,  very  much  crowded,  branched  and  con- 

98 


Leucosporse 

nected  by  veins,  whitish  then  pale  tan-color,  not  separating  spontane-  ciitocybe. 
ously  from  the  hymenophore.      Stem  1-2  in.  long  and  nearly  the  same 
in  thickness,  equal,  pallid,  solid.      Spores  white,  5x3/x. 

In  woods,  etc. 

A  very  distinct  species,  very  showy,  large,  subcespitose,  entirely 
whitish  tan-color;  without  close  affinities.  Stem  solid,  compact,  and 
firm  inside  and  outside,  2%.  in.  long,  %  in.  thick,  equal,  even,  glabrous. 
Pileus  depressed  from  the  first,  then  broadly,  i.  e.,  plano-infundibuli- 
form,  thin  but  equally  fleshy,  soft,  not  flaccid,  but  easily  splitting  from 
the  margin  toward  the  center  (almost  papery  and  involute  when  old), 
upward  of  a  foot  broad,  often  excentric  and  generally  sinuately  lobed, 
moist  and  adpressedly  downy  when  growing,  slightly  flocculose  and 
cracked  into  scales  when  dry;  margin  at  first  very  thin,  involute, 
pubescent,  soon  spreading,  glabrous,  at  length  revolute,  coarsely  fur- 
rowed or  radiately  wrinkled.  Gills  slightly  decurrent,  closely  crowded, 
almost  3  lines  broad  (2—3  times  as  broad  as  thickness  of  flesh  of  pileus), 
connected  by  veins,  thin,  fragile,  straight,  but  sometimes  varying  to 
crisped  and  anastomosing,  whitish  then  yellowish  or  tinged  with  rufous, 
smell  weak.  Fries. 

This  species  was  placed  in  Ciitocybe  in  Syst.  Myc.  and  Epicrisis,  but 
in  Hym.  Europ.  Fries  removed  it  to  Paxillus  in  which  he  is  followed  by 
Stevenson.  Cooke  and  Massee  continue  it  in  Ciitocybe.  Dr.  Somers 
found  one  measuring  over  15  inches  in  diameter.  R.  K.  M. 

North  Carolina,  Sclnveinitz.  Edible,  Curtis;  Wisconsin,  Bundy;  Cali- 
fornia, H.  and  M.;  Nova  Scotia,  Dr.  Somers. 

Large  quantities  of  Ciitocybe  gigantea  grow  in  the  West  Virginia 
mountains,  and  in  woods  around  Philadelphia.  July  to  November. 

Its  substance  is  coarse,  but  of  good  flavor.    It  should  be  chopped  fine. 

C.  max'ima  Gartn  and  Meyer.  (Fl.  Wett.) — greatest.  (Plate 
XXIV,  fig.  5,  page  82.)  Pileus  as  much  as  I  foot  broad,  becoming 
pale-tan  or  whitish,  fleshy,  compact  at  the  disk,  otherwise  thin,  some- 
what  flaccid  (wA  capable  of  being  split),  broadly  funnel-shaped,  gib- 
bous with  a  central  ^tmbo,  always  very  dry,  the  surface  becoming  silky- 
even  or  squamulose ;  margin  involute,  pubescent,  always  even.  Flesh 
white,  at  length  soft.  Stem  as  much  as  4  in.  long,  i  in.  thick,  solid, 
compact,  but  internally  spongy,  elastic,  attenuated  upward,  fibrillose- 

99 


Agaricacese 

cntocybe.  striate,  whitish.  Gills  deeply  decurrent,  pointed  at  both  ends,  some- 
what crowded,  soft,  simple,  whitish,  not  changeable. 

The  pileus  is  always  very  dry  because  the  surface  absorbs  moisture. 
Odor  weak,  pleasant,  almost  that  of  A.  infundibuliformis.  On  account 
of  its  gigantic  stature  and  color,  it  has  often  been  interchanged  with  A. 
gigantea  Sow.  ;  it  is  in  no  wise,  however,  allied  to  that  species,  but  is  so 
closely  allied  to  A.  infundibuliformis  that  it  might  be  taken  for  a  very 
luxuriant  form  of  it.  Stevenson. 

Spores  6x4^  Massee;  5x3/01  W.G.S. 

New  England,  Frost;  California,  H.  and  M. 

Common  in  the  West  Virginia  mountains,  mixed  woods  in  New  Jer- 
sey and  Pennsylvania.  June  to  November.  Mcllvaine. 

It  is  coarse,  dry,  hard,  but  chopped  fine  and  cooked  in  various  ways, 
either  by  itself  or  with  meats,  it  is  a  good  food. 

C.  infundibulifor'mis  Schaeff . — infundibulumt  a  funnel ;  forma,  form. 
(Plate  XXIV,  fig.  n,  p.  82.)  The  Funnel-form  clitocybe,  Clitocybe 
infundibuliformis,  is  a  neat  and  pretty  species  easily  recognized  by  the 
funnel  shape  of  its  mature  cap  and  by  its  pale  red  color.  When  very 
young  the  cap  is  slightly  convex  and  often  adorned  with  a  slight  umbo 
in  its  center.  As  it  matures  the  margin  becomes  elevated  so  that  the 
cap  assumes  a  shape  somewhat  resembling  that  of  a  wine  glass.  The 
margin  is  sometimes  wavy.  The  flesh  is  thin  and  white.  The  gills  are 
close,  thin,  white  or  whitish  and  decurrent.  The  stem  is  smooth,  col- 
ored like  or  a  little  paler  than  the  cap  and  mostly  tapering  from  the 
base  upward. 

The  cap  is  2-3  in.  broad,  the  stem  I  %—  3  in.  long  and  K->£  in.  thick. 

The  funnel-shaped  mushroom  grows  in  woods  or  copses  in  summer 
and  autumn,  especially  in  wet  seasons.  It  is  somewhat  variable  in  color, 
but  is  usually  a  pale-red,  tinged  with  buff,  and  sometimes  becoming 
more  pale  with  age.  It  delights  to  grow  among  fallen  leaves,  and  often 
there  is  an  abundant  white  cottony  mycelium  at  the  base  of  the  stem. 
When  it  grows  in  clusters  the  caps  are  apt  to  be  irregular  because  of 
mutual  pressure.  "Mushrooms  and  Their  Use."  Peck. 

Spores  5-6x3-4  B. 

Very  common  and  in  plenty  after  rains,  when  large  patches  of  it  may 
be  found.  I  have  usually  found  the  light  pinkish-buff  color  to  abound, 

100 


Leucosporae 

and  the  stem  thinner  than  described  by  Prof.  Peck.      Size  of  cap  from  cutocybe. 
1-3   in. 

It  is  a  good,  reliable  food  species.  The  stem  should  be  removed,  and 
the  caps  well  cooked. 

**  Pileus  colored  or  pallid,  smooth,  moist  in  wet  weather. 

C.  Sllbzonal'isPk. — sub,  under;  zonalis,  pertaining  to  a  zone.  Pileus 
thin,  centrally  depressed  or  subinfundibuliform,  marked  with  two  or 
three  obscure  zones,  with  a  slight  appressed  silkiness,  pale  yellow.  Gills 
close,  narrow,  equally  decurrent,  some  of  them  forked,  pallid  or  yellow- 
ish. Stem  equal,  slightly  fibrillose,  stuffed,  pale  yellow. 

Plant  2  in.  high.     Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  lines  thick. 

Ground  in  woods.  Croghan.  September.  Peck,  26th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Found  in  oak  woods,  Angora,  West  Philadelphia,  growing  singly. 
Specimens  few.  Edible;  pleasant. 

C.  gil'va  Pers. — gilvus,  pale  brownish-yellow.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad, 
pale  yellowish*,  fleshy ,  compact,  convex  then  depressed,  very  obtuse,  even, 
smooth,  dampish  when  fresh,  polished  and  shining  when  dry,  here  and 
there  spotted  as  with  drops,  the  margin  remaining  long  involute.  Flesh 
compact,  not  laxly  floccose,  but  at  length  fragile,  somewhat  of  the  same 
color  as  the  pileus.  Stem  1-2  in.  and  more  long,  >£  in.  and  more  thick, 
solid,  fleshy,  stout,  not  elastic,  somewhat  equal,  smooth,  paler  than  the 
pileus,  villous  at  the  base.  Gills  decurrent,  thin,  very  much  crowded, 
often  branched,  arcuate,  narrow,  pallid  then  ocJiraceous. 

Odor  not  remarkable.  The  stem  has  been  noticed  aj:  length  also 
hollow,  perhaps  eroded  by  larvae.  It  corresponds  with  the  Paxilli. 
The  primary  form,  which  is  very  different  from  all  the  rest,  is  curt, 
obese,  robust,  scarcely  ever  infundibuliform.  Stevenson. 

Spores  4-5x5/1  K.;  4-5^  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Pennsylvania,  Schweinitz;  New 
York,  Peck,  R.  51,  under  pines.  July  to  September. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     July,  1898,  ground,  mixed  woods.     Mcllvaine. 

Pileus  1—2%  in.  across,  depressed,  almost  infundibuliform,  smooth. 
Color  varied  lemon  to  bright  orange.  Flesh  lemon  color  throughout. 
Gills  varying  in  color,  usually  same  color  as  pileus.  Stem  all  of  one 

101 


Agaricacece 

ciitocybe.  color,  same  as  pileus,  stuffed,  sometimes  short,  and  pointed,  sometimes 
thickened  at  base.     Taste  and  smell  pleasant.        Edible;    good. 

C.  Sllbinvolu'ta  Batsch. — turned  under  at  the  margin.  PileilS 
brick  color,  convex,  depressed,  smooth,  margin  closely  involute.  Flesh 
pallid.  Stem  paler,  stout,  straight,  somewhat  equal,  veined  on  the 
lower  part  with  oblique  coalescing  slightly  elevated  wrinkles,  tomentose 
and  inclining  to  flesh  color  above  toward  the  gills,  base  obtuse.  Gills 
decurrent,  rather  broad,  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus. 

The  stem  is  rough  on  the  surface  and  destitute  of  luster.  It  resem- 
bles Paxillus  involutus  in  size  and  habit,  in  the  crenate  and  involute 
margin  of  the  pileus,  and  in  the  stem  being  obsoletely  veined  at  the 
base  and  tomentose  toward  the  gills.  Stevenson. 

New  England,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  22. 

Edible,  Cooke. 

C.  geo'tropa  Bull.;  Gr. — the  earth;  Gr. — to  turn.  From  the  turned 
down  margin.  Pileus  2-5  in.  across.  Flesh  thick,  white  convex, 
then  plane  and  finally  more  or  less  depressed,  obtusely  umbonate,  the 
prominence  remaining  after  the  pileus  becomes  depressed,  very  smooth, 
even,  margin  thin,  incurved,  downy,  pale  pinkish-tan  or  buff.  Gills 
decurrent,  crowded,  narrow,  simple,  white,  then  colored  like  the  pileus. 
Stem  3-5  in.  long,  i  in.  or  more  thick  at  the  base,  slightly  attenuated 
upward,  compact,  fibrillose,  colored  like  the  pileus  or  paler,  solid. 
Spores  elliptical,  6-7x4-5^.  Massee. 

In  woods  and  on  their  borders.      Often  in  rings  or  troops. 

Differs  from  C.  maxima  in  being  firmer,  glabrous,  and  color  much 
more  variable;  from  C.  gilva  in  the  thinner  pileus,  less  crowded  gills, 
and  white  flesh. 

Spores  5-7/*  W.G.S. 

In  England  and  on  the  continent  it  is  considered  excellent  and  supe- 
rior to  most  edible  fungi. 

Found  in  West  Virginia,  1881;  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  1891.  Spring 
and  autumn.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible,  coarse,  dry.  In  stews  and  mixed  to  form  croquettes  or  pat- 
ties, it  is  a  desirable  species,  owing  to  its  plentifulness. 

C.  splen'dens  Pers. — splendens,  shining.  Solitary.  Pileus  2-3  in. 
across,  flesh  rather  thick,  white,  plane  then  depressed  or  funnel- 

102 


Leucosporse 

shaped,  glabrous,  shining,  yellowish.     Gills  deeply  decurrent,  narrow,  ciitocybe. 
crowded,    simple,   white.      Stem   about    I  in.  long,    3    lines   thick,  gla- 
brous, colored  like  the  pileus,  solid,   slightly  thickened  at  the  base  or 
equal.     Massee, 

In  woods,  among  pine  leaves,  etc. 

Intermediate  between  C.  gilva  and  C.  flaccida.  The  typical  form  of 
C.  gilva  differs  in  the  compact  pileus,  often  with  drop-like  markings, 
the  very  much  crowded,  somewhat  branched,  pale  ochraceous  gills  and 
flesh.  Fries. 

Sent  to  me  from  Trenton,  N.  J.,  by  E.  B.  Sterling. 

Edible;   quality  good,  deficient  in  flavor. 

C.  inver'sus  Scop. — inverto,  inverted.  Pileus  2-3  in.  across.  Flesh 
thin,  fragile;  convex,  soon  funnel-shaped,  margin  involute,  glabrous, 
even,  reddish  or  dull  brownish-orange.  Gills  decurrent,  simple,  pallid 
then  reddish.  Stem  about  I  %  in.  long,  2  lines  thick,  glabrous,  rather 
rigid,  paler  than  the  pileus,  stuffed,  soon  hollow.  Spores  subglobose, 
4/u,  diameter.  Massee. 

Among  leaves,  etc. 

Gregarious,  subcespitose,  forming  very  large  tufts,  especially  late  in 
the  autumn,  deformed.  Smell  peculiar,  slightly  acid.  Stem  sometimes 
stuffed,  usually  hollow,  hence  compressed,  rather  rigid  and  corticated 
outside,  not  elastic,  without  a  bulb,  glabrous,  whitish;  the  somewhat 
rooting  base  with  white  down,  and  often  growing  together  in  tufts, 
variously  deformed,  curved,  ascending,  etc.  Fries. 

Spores  subglobose,  4/1  Massee;  3/u,  W.G.S. 

Closely  resembles  C.  infundibuliformis,  but  differs  from  it  in  the  color 
of  gills  and  flesh.  The  entire  plant  is  dark  in  color.  Solitary ;  in  troops ; 
cespitose. 

Found  in  mixed  woods.      Haddonfield,  N.  J.      Summer  and  autumn. 

That  part  of  the  plant  which  readily  breaks  away  from  the  stem  is 
tender  and  of  good  flavor.  The  remainder  is  tough. 

C.  flac'cida  Sow. — ftaccidus,  limp.  Pileus  2—3  in.  across,  flaccid, 
orbicular,  umbilicate,  umbo  persistently  absent,  margin  spreading, 
arched,  glabrous,  even,  rarely  cracking  into  minute  squamules,  tawny- 
rust  colored,  shining,  not  becoming  pale.  Flesh  thin,  pallid,  rather 
fragile  when  fresh,  but  quite  flaccid  when  dry.  Gills  deeply  decurrent, 

103 


Agaricaceae 

Clitocybe.  arcuate,  crowded,  narrow,  about  I  line  broad,  white,  then  tinged  yel- 
lowish. Stem  imperfectly  hollow,  elastic,  tough,  1-2  in.  long,  2-3 
lines  thick  somewhat  equal,  polished,  naked,  reddish-rust  color,  base 
thickened,  downy.  Spores  subglobose,  4-5x3—47*. 

Among  leaves,  etc.  Gregarious,  stems  often  grown  together  at  the 
base.  Sometimes  solitary  and  regular.  Summer  and  autumn.  Massee. 

Spores  subglobose,  4-5x3-4/1.. 

Found  in  1886  in  West  Philadelphia — oak  woods.  Since  in  New 
Jersey,  North  Carolina,  and  interior  of  Pennsylvania. 

Edible.  Well  cooked  it  compares  favorably  with  C.  infundibuliformis 
and  others  of  like  texture. 

***  Pileus  shining  white. 

C.  cati'na  Fr. — catinus,  a  bowl.  Pileus  2  in.  broad,  at  first  white, 
in  no  wise  hygrophanous,  then  passing  into  pale  flesh-color  during  rain, 
and  into  tan-color  in  dry  weather,  fleshy,  moderately  thin,  plane  then 
funnel-shaped,  always  obtuse,  even,  smooth.  Flesh  thin,  flaccid,  white. 
Stem  3  in.  long,  i  /£  in.  thick,  stuffed,  internally  spongy,  elastic,  tough, 
thickened  and  tomentose  at  the  base.  Gills  decurrent,  straight,  de- 
scending, not  horizontal,  broad,  not  much  crowded,  persistently  white. 
Fries. 

Ray  Brook,  Adirondack  mountains.  August.  The  pileus  is  at  first 
white,  but  in  wet  weather  it  becomes  pallid  or  discolored  with  age.  The 
plants  were  found  growing  among  pieces  of  bark  of  arbor  vitas  lying  on 
the  ground.  Peck,  43d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Quite  common  in  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey.  Woods 
among  dead  leaves.  August  until  frost. 

Edible.     Excellent  in  flavor  and  quality. 

Series  B. 

IV. — CYATHIFOR'MES. 

C.  cyathifor'mis  Bull. — cyathus,  a  cup;  formis,  form.  Pileus  I  ^-3 
in.  across,  flesh  thin,  piano-depressed  when  young,  then  infundibuli- 
form,  even,  glabrous,  hygrophanous,  rather  slimy  and  usually  dark 
brown  when  moist,  becoming  pale  and  opaque  when  dry,  undulate  in 

104 


Leucosporae 

large  specimens,  the  margin  remains  involute  for  a  long  time.  Flesh  cutocybe. 
watery,  similar  in  color  to  the  pileus,  splitting.  Gills  adnate,  becoming 
decurrent  with  the  depression  of  the  pileus,  joined  behind,  distant,  gray- 
ish-brown, sometimes  branched.  Stem  spongy  and  stuffed  inside,  elas- 
tic, at  length  often  hollow,  2-4  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick,  attenuated 
upward,  brownish-fibrillose,  fibrils  forming  an  imperfect  reticulation, 
colored  like  the  pileus  or  a  little  paler,  apex  naked  (not  mealy),  base 
villous.  Massee. 

On  the  ground  in  pastures  and  woods,  rarely  on  rotten  wood. 

Usually  blackish-umber,  but  varies  to  paler  grayish-brown,  pinky- 
tan,  pale  cinnamon  or  brownish;  then  dingy-ochraceous  or  tan-color. 
Margin  expanded  when  old,  and  also  indistinctly  striate.  Fries. 

Var.  cineras'cens  Fr.  Pileus  up  to  I  in.  across,  thin,  infundibuli- 
form,  pale  smoky-brown.  Gills  decurrent,  yellowish-white.  Stem  I— 2 
in.  long,  iM  line  thick,  grayish,  reticulately  fibrillose,  hollow. 

Spores  8x5 /A  W.G.S.;   I o-  12x5-6/1  B. ;  9x6^  Morgan. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Among  leaves  in  woods.  September  to  October. 
Gregarious.  Mcllvaine. 

Fair  in  quality. 

C.  bruma'lis  Fr. — bruma,  winter.  From  its  late  appearance.  Pileus 
about  i  in.  across.  Flesh  thin,  expanded,  umbilicate  then  infundibuli- 
form  and  usually  variously  waved  and  lobed,  glabrous,  flaccid,  hygroph- 
anous,  livid,  whitish  or  yellowish  when  dry,  disk  often  darker.  Gills 
decurrent,  about  I  line  broad,  crowded,  pallid.  Stem  up  to  2  in.  long 
and  about  2  lines  thick,  nearly  equal,  slightly  curved,  glabrous,  whitish, 
often  compressed,  imperfectly  hollow.  Spores  4-5x3-4/4. 

In  woods,  etc. 

Truly  autumnal,  being  most  abundant  in  November.  There  are 
two  forms:  (#)  on  pine  leaves  in  pine  woods;  (<£)  among  heather. 
(#)  Stem  rather  firm,  hollow,  about  2  in.  long,  2  lines  thick,  equal  or 
slightly  thickened  at  the  apex,  at  length  compressed,  somewhat  in- 
curved, glabrous,  naked,  becoming  livid,  white  when  dry,  base  white 
and -downy.  Flesh  of  pileus  membranaceous,  at  first  convex,  umbilicate, 
margin  reflexed,  about  I  in.  across,  then  funnel-shaped,  often  irregular 
and  undulate,  up  to  2  in.  broad,  glabrous,  even,  livid  when  moist, 
whitish  then  becoming  yellowish  when  dry,  disk  at  first  usually  darker. 
Gills  decurrent,  at  first  arcuate,  then  descending,  I  line  broad,  crowded, 

105 


Agaricacese 

ciitocybe.  distinct,  livid  then  yellowish-white,  smell  weak,  not  unpleasant.  (£) 
Entirely  watery  white;  stem  hollow,  somewhat  striate,  base  glabrous; 
pileus  infundibuliform,  margin  deflexed,  milky-white  when  dry.  Gills 
less  crowded,  but  rather  broader,  whitish.  Fries. 

Spores  3/A  W.G.S.;  4-5x3-4^  Massee. 

Edible.      Cooke. 

C.  morbi'fera  Pk. — morbus,  disease ;  fero,  to  bear.  Pileus  thin,  frag- 
ile, glabrous,  convex,  becoming  plane  or  centrally  depressed,  slightly 
hygrophanous,  grayish-brown  when  moist,  whitish  or  cinereous  when 
dry,  sometimes  slightly  umbonate.  Gills  narrow,  close,  adnate  or 
slightly  decurrent,  whitish  or  pallid.  Stem  short,  equal,  hollow,  col- 
ored like  the  pileus  or  a  little  paler.  Spores  minute,  broadly  elliptical, 
4/x  long,  almost  as  broad. 

Pileus  .5-1.5  in.  broad.      Stem  about  I  in.  long,  ^-\  in.  thick. 

Grassy  ground  and  lawns.  November.  Washington,  D.  C.  F.  J. 
Braendle. 

The  species  seems  related  to  C.  expallens,  but  the  margin  of  the 
pileus  is  not  striate  as  in  that  fungus.  The  taste  is  very  disagreeable 
and  remains  in  the  mouth  a  long  time.  Two  persons  were  made  ill  by 
eating  it,  but  their  sickness  lasted  only  about  three  hours.  Peck. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species.  Its  reputation  is  bad.  Caution  should 
be  observed. 

V. — VERSIFOR'MES. 
**  Pileus  bright,  of  one  color. 

C.  trullisa'ta  Ellis.  Pileus  fleshy,  plano-convex,  at  length  depressed 
in  the  center,  innate  fibrous-scaly,  becoming  smoother  on  the  disk,  mar- 
gin thin.  Gills  unequal,  not  crowded,  coarse  and  thick,  adnate  with  a 
decurrent  tooth,  at  length  white  pulverulent,  purple-violet  at  first,  be- 
coming dark  brick-red.  Stem  stuffed,  fibrillose,  with  a  long  club- 
shaped  base  penetrating  deeply  into  the  sand.  Spores  large,  cylindric- 
oblong,  I5-2O/A. 

In  old  sandy  fields.      September  to  October. 

The  interior  of  the  stem  in  the  young  plant  is  like  the  gills,  violet- 
purple,  and  the  club-shaped  base  is  covered  with  a  tomentose  coat,  to 
which  the  sand  adheres  tenaciously. 

1 06 


Leucosporee 

Related  to  A.  laccatus  and  A.  ochropurpureus  B.  ciitocybe. 

Resembles  the  larger  forms  of  A.  laccatus,  but  it  has  a  stouter  habit, 
the  pileus  is  more  squamulose,  the  stem  is  bulbous  or  thickened  at  the 
base,  the  mycelium  is  violet-colored  and  the  spores  are  oblong.  Bull. 
Torrey  Bot.  Club,  November,  1874. 

New  Jersey,  Ellis;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  33. 

Haddonfield,  Watertown,  N.  J.  Sandy  soil  in  pine  woods.  Mcll- 
vaine, 

Densely  cespitose.  Caps  and  stems  brown,  glutinous  and  so  in- 
crusted  with  sand  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  clean  them.  Edible, 
but  not  desirable. 

C.  lacca'ta  Scop. — made  of  lac.  (Plate  XXIV,  fig.  10,  p.  82.) 
Pileus  thin,  fleshy,  convex,  sometimes  expanded,  even  or  slightly  um- 
bilicate,  smooth  or  minutely  tomentose-scaly,  hygrophanous  when  moist, 
dull  reddish-yellow  or  reddish  flesh-colored,  sometimes  striatulate  when 
dry,  pallid  or  pale  dull  ochraceous.  Gills  broad,  rather  thick  and  dis- 
tant, attached,  not  decurrent,  flesh-colored.  Stem  slender,  firm,  fibrous, 
stuffed,  equal,  concolorous. 

Height  1-6  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  6  lines  to  2  in.  Common.  June 
to  October. 

An  extremely  variable  and  abundant  species  occurring  almost  every- 
where throughout  the  season.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  8-9/u.  Massee;  8-io/tt  B, 

Var.  pallidi folia  Pk. — pallidus,  pale;  folium,  leaf.  Gills  whitish  or 
pallid,  decurrent. 

Var.  stria  tula  Pk. — stria,  a  furrow.  Pileus  moist,  smooth,  thin, 
showing  shading  radiating  lines,  extending  from  near  the  center  to  the 
margin.  In  wet  or  damp  places. 

A  form  occurs  with  a  decidedly  bulbous  base.  Gills  appearing  emar- 
ginate  with  a  decurrent  tooth. 

Ciitocybe  laccata  is  made  the  type  of  a  new  genus  by  Berkeley  and 
Broome.  Massee  accepts  the  genus  but  it  is  not  generally  accepted  by 
the  standard  authors.  It  is  a  well  defined  genus,  and  a  fitting  place  for 
C.  laccata,  C.  amethystina,  C.  ochropurpurea,  C.  tortilis,  which  it 
puzzles  anyone  to  identify  as  Ciitocybe. 

C.  amethys'tina  Bolt. — amethystinus,  color  of  an  amethyst.      (Plate 

107 


Agaricaceae 

ciitocybe.  XXIV,  fig.  8,  p.  82.)  Pileus  1-2%  in.  across,  dark-purple,  umbili- 
cate,  smooth,  minutely  tomentose,  involute.  Gills  dark-purple,  decur- 
rent,  broad.  Stem  2—3  in.  high,  fibrillose,  purple,  streaked  with  white 
fibrils,  equal,  densely  covered  with  white  tomentum  at  base. 

Also  written  Ciitocybe  laccata  amethystina  Sacc. 

"In  my  opinion  it  is  a  good  species  and  should  be  kept  distinct  as 
Bolton  gave  it,  and  not  be  tacked  on  to  C.  laccata  as  a  variety.  I  should 
write  it  Ciitocybe  amethystina  Bolt."  Peck,  letter  September  17,  1897. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  41;  New  Jersey,  Sterling;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa., 
on  wood  soil,  June  to  frost,  1897-1898,  Mcllvaine. 

Generally  included  in  C.  laccata  as  a  variety,  and  has  therefore  been 
reported  under  that  name. 

Great  quantities  of  C.  amethystina  grew  in  troops  on  beds  made  up 
of  wood  earth  about  the  cottages  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  The  woods  over 
them  is  dense. 

The  caps  are  tough,  but  they  cook  readily  and  make  a  pleasing  dish. 

C.  tor'tilis  Bolt. — tortilis,  twisted.  PileilS  membranaceous,  convexo- 
plane  then  depressed,  obscurely  marked  with  radiating  striae.  Stem 
hollow,  twisted,  fragile.  Gills  adnate,  thick,  distant,  fleshy-rose,  ces- 
pitose,  small,  irregular,  pileus  and  stem  rusty  in  color. 

Hard  ground  in  an  old  road.  Sandlake.  August.  A  species  closely 
allied  to  C.  laccata  and  appearing  like  an  irregular  dwarf  form  of  that 
species.  Sometimes  cespitose.  Peck,  4ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Excepting  that  this  fungus  is  frequently  found  with  C.  laccata,  and 
might  be  taken  for  a  new  species  if  not  here  described,  it  would  not  be 
separated  from  C.  laccata. 

Its  edible  qualities  are  similar. 

C.  ochropurpu'rea  Berk. — ochra,  ocher;  purpureus,  purple.  (Plate 
XXIV,  figs,  i,  2,  3,  4,  p.  82.)  Pileus  subhemispherical,  at  length 
depressed,  fleshy,  compact,  tough,  pale  yellow,  slightly  changing  to 
purplish,  cuticle  easily  separable ;  margin  inflexed,  at  first  tomentose. 
Stem  paler,  here  and  there  becoming  purplish,  solid,  swollen  in  the 
middle,  occasionally  equal.  Grills  thick,  purple,  broader  behind,  de- 
current.  Spores  white  or  pale  yellow. 

Pileus  2  in.  broad.     Stem  2%  in.  high,  %  in.  thick  in  the  center. 

August.      On  clayey  soil  in  woodlands. 

108 


Leucosporae 

Its  spores  darken  when  shed  in  quantity,  have  a  granulated  and  light-  ciitocybe. 
lilac  appearance.  It  is  a  solitary  grower,  sometimes  reaching  the  height 
of  six  inches.  The  upturned,  wavy  pileus,  showing  the  purple  gills  in 
contrast  with  the  pale  Naples-yellow  of  the  cap  is  markedly  attractive. 
The  stem  is  often  rough  with  fibers,  hard  and  tough.  The  caps  are 
tough.  It  grows  in  grassy  woods  and  open  places.  The  novice,  even 
the  expert,  will  be  puzzled  to  place  it  in  its  genus. 

Specimens  were  sent  to  me  by  Miss  Lydia  M.  Patchen,  Westfield, 
N.  Y.,  and  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J.  I  afterward  found  many  at 
Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  I  reported  their  edible  qualities  to  Prof.  Peck  who 
wrote,  September  3,  1897:  "I  have  often  wished  it  was  edible,  but  it 
has  such  a  disagreeable  flavor  when  fresh  that  I  have  never  ventured  to 
eat  it.  I  have  known  it  to  be  mistaken  for  the  common  mushroom, 
but  not  eaten." 

Though  tough  it  cooks  tender  and  is  excellent.  Stew  and  put  in 
patties  or  croquettes. 

i 
VI. — ORBIFOR'MES. 

*  Gills  becoming  ash-colored. 

C.  di'topa  Fr.  Gr. — twofold ;  Gr. — a  foot.  Probably  from  stems 
growing  two  together.  PileilS  thin,  submembranaceous,  convex,  rarely 
with  a  small  umbo,  smooth,  hygrophanous,  brown  when  young  and 
moist,  grayish-white  when  dry.  Gills  grayish,  close,  thin,  attached, 
not  decurrent.  Stem  slender,  equal,  smooth,  hollow. 

Height  1-2  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  6-18  lines.      Stem  1-2  lines  thick. 

Pine  woods.     West  Albany.      October. 

The  plant  has  the  odor  and  taste  of  new  meal.  I  have  seen  no  speci- 
mens with  the  pileus  depressed.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

C.  meta'chroa  Fr.  Gr. — changing  color.  Separated  from  C.  ditopa 
by  its  thicker,  depressed  pileus,  its  thicker,  less  close  gills,  and  the  ab- 
sence of  odor. 

Pine  woods.  West  Albany.  October.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Moderately  plentiful  in  New  Jersey  pines.      September  to  October. 

Edible,  tough;   when  well  stewed  of  good  flavor. 

109 


Agaricaceae 

** Gills  whitish, 

ciitocybe.  Q,  COmpres'sipeS  Pk. — comprcssus,  pressed  together;  pes,  a  foot, 
Pileus  thin,  convex  or  expanded,  umbilicate,  glabrous,  hygrophanous, 
brownish  when  moist,  whitish  or  pale  yellow  when  dry,  margin  thin. 
Gills  close,  subarcuate  or  horizontal,  adnate  or  subdecurrent,  whitish. 
Stem  firm,  hollow,  generally  compressed,  slightly  pruinose.  Spores 
elliptical,  5-6. 5x4-4. 5ft.  Flesh  white  when  dry,  odor  slight,  farinaceous. 

Plant  gregarious,  1—1.5  m-  high-  Pileus  6— 16  lines  broad.  Stem 
1-2  lines  thick. 

Grassy  places.      Albany.     July. 

The  moist  pileus  is  sometimes  obscurely  zonate.  The  odor  is  not 
always  perceptible  unless  the  pileus  is  moist  or  broken.  The  stem  is 
sometimes  compressed  at  the  top  only,  sometimes  at  the  base  only,  and 
rarely  it  is  wholly  top-shaped.  Peck,  33d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Found  on  open  lots  in  West  Philadelphia.  Though  small  it  usually 
grows  in  troops  which  yield  fair  quantity.  The  caps  are  tender  and  of 
good  flavor. 

C.  fra'grans  Sow. — fragrans,  fragrant.  Smell  strong,  spicy.  Pileus 
about  i  in.  across.  Flesh  rather  thick;  convex,  soon  expanded  and 
slightly  depressed  or  umbilicate,  even,  glabrous,  hygrophanous,  uniform 
watery-white,  disk  not  darker,  whitish  when  dry.  Gills  slightly  decur- 
rent,  rather  crowded,  I  line  broad,  distinct,  whitish.  Stem  about  2  in. 
long,  equal,  slightly  curved,  elastic,  glabrous,  whitish,  stuffed  then 
hollow. 

In  woods  among  moss,  etc. 

Distinguished  from  other  species  resembling  it  in  color  and  size,  by 
the  fragrant  smell  resembling  aniseed.  Massee. 

Spores  6x41".  W.G.S. 

Found  in  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  July  to  severe 
frosts.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.     The  strong  taste  of  anise  is  not  lost  in  cooking. 

C.  pino'phila — pine  loving.  Pileus  thin,  convex,  umbilicate  or  cen- 
trally depressed,  glabrous,  moist,  pale  tan-color,  paler  or  alutaceous 
when  dry.  Gills  moderately  close,  subarcuate,  adnate  or  slightly  de- 
current,  whitish.  Stem  equal,  stuffed  or  hollow,  glabrous  or  subprui- 

IIO 


Leucosporae 

nose,  colored  like  the  pileus.    Spores  nearly  elliptical,  4-6/x  long;  odor  ciitocybe. 
and  taste  resembling  that  of  fresh  meal. 

Plant  1-2  in.  high.     Pileus  about  I  in.  broad.     Stem  1-2  lines  thick. 

Ground   under   pine   trees.      Albany   and    Ticonderoga.       July   and 
August.     Peck,  3  ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Quite  plentiful  in  pine  woods  of  New  Jersey.     Edible;  pleasant. 


Ill 


Agaricaceae 

COLLY'BIA  Fr. 

Gr. — a  small  coin. 

CoUybia.  PileilS  fleshy,  usually  thin,  margin  incurved  at  first,  not  corrugated. 
Stem  different  in  substance  from  the  pileus,  but  confluent  with  it;  hol- 
low, with  a  cartilaginous  bark,  internally  cartilaginous  or  soft,  often 
rooting.  Gills  free  or  obtusely  adnexed,  membranaceous,  soft. 

Growing  on  the  ground,  wood,  leaves  and  decaying  fungi. 

In  Clitocybe  and  Tricholoma  the  substance  of  the  stem  and  pileus  is 
alike;  they  differ  in  the  character  of  the  stem.  Tricholoma  has  no 
distinct  bark-like  coat,  and  in  Clitocybe  the  stem  is  covered  with  mi- 
nute fibers.  In  Mycena  as  in  Collybia  the  stem  is  different  in  substance 
from  the  pileus,  but  is  distinguished  by  the  margin  of  the  pileus  being 
straight.  It  is  most  closely  allied  to  Marasmius,  which  is  characterized 
by  its  tough  coriaceous  substance,  which  when  dried  fully  revives  and 
expands  on  being  moistened.  The  line  between  them  can  not  always 
be  closely  drawn,  and  there  are  numerous  species  which  it  is  difficult  to 
place  with  certainty  in  either  genus.  This  does  not  apply  to  the  fleshy 
edible  species  of  this  genus  as  they  are  quite  distinct  from  Marasmius. 

Peck's  49th  Report  contains  a  monograph  of  the  New  York  species 
of  Collybia,  supplemented  by  one  of  those  found  in  other  states. 

Several  common,  prolific,  long-season,  delicious  fungi  occur  in  this 
genus.  They  vary  in  size  from  "  a  small  coin  "  to  five  inches  across. 
They  grow  in  woods,  on  wood,  on  ground,  on  leaves,  on  lawns  and 
among  moss  and  grass  in  shaded  places.  The  writer  has  tested  many 
species  raw,  and  eaten  small  quantities  cooked,  which  are  not  herein 
described  for  the  reason  that  not  enough  of  a  species  was  found  to  test 
to  full  extent.  So  far  as  is  reported  and  as  his  experience  goes,  there  is 
not  a  poisonous  species  in  Collybia.  Many  of  them  are  strong  in  odor. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 
Series  A.    GILLS  WHITE  OR  BRIGHTLY  COLORED,  NOT  GRAY.     FLESH  WHITE. 

STRlyEPEDES  (striate-stemmed ).      Page  113. 

Stem  stout,  hollow  or  imperfectly  filled  with  a  spongy  pith ;  grooved 
or  striate  with  fibers. 

112 


PLATE  XXIX. 


Photographed  by  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist. 

COLLYBIA  RADICATA. 


Leucosporse 

*  Gills  broad,  rather  distant.  Coiiybia. 
**  Gills  narrow,  crowded. 

VESTIPEDES  (clothed-stemmed).     Page  118. 

Stem  thin,  equal,  hollow  or  with  a  pith,  even,  velvety,  downy  or  cov- 
ered with  a  bloom. 

*  Gills  broad,  rather  distant. 

*  Gills  very  narrow,  closely  crowded. 

IWEVIPEDES  (even-stemmed).     Page  120. 

Stem  thin,  equal,  hollow,  naked,  smooth — except  the  base — appar- 
ently not  striate,  but  some  species  are  minutely  striate  under  a  lens. 

*  Gills  broad,  lax,  usually  more  or  less  distant. 
**  Gills  narrow,  crowded. 

Series  B.    GILLS  BECOMING  GRAY.     HYGROPHANOUS. 

TEPHROPHAN/E.     Page . 

Color  brownish  becoming  gray.  Allied  to  the  last  section  of  Tricho- 
loma  and  Clitocybe,  but  distinguished  from  them  by  the  cartilaginous 
stem. 

Some  are  strong  scented.     None  known  to  be  edible. 

STRI^E'PEDES. 
*  Gills  broad,  rather  distant. 

C.  radica'ta  Relh. — radix,  a  root.  (Plate  XXIX,  p.  112.)  Pileus 
i  >2-4  in.  across,  from  convex  to  nearly  plane,  broadly  umbonate,  fre- 
quently wrinkled  toward  and  at  the  umbo,  glutinous  when  moist.  Color 
variable,  usually  brown  in  grayish  shades,  from  dark  to  almost  white. 
Flesh  thin,  white,  elastic.  Gills  white,  thick,  tough,  distant,  ventricose, 
adnexed,  rounded  or  notched  behind  like  Tricholoma,  sometimes  with 
a  decurrent  tooth.  Stem  4-8  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick,  smooth,  firm, 
same  color  as  pileus,  tapering  upward,  becoming  vertically  striate  or 
grooved,  often  twisted,  ending  in  a  long,  tapering,  pointed  root  deeply 
planted  in  the  earth. 

Spores  elliptical,  14-15x8-9/4  Massee;  IIXI//A  W.G.S.;  nxp/x,  W. 
P.;  16-17x10-1  ip.  B, 

8  113 


Agaricacese 

C!oiiybia.  Often  sombre,  but  erect,  neat  and  handsome.  Growing  solitary  and 
in  troops  in  woods,  usually  near  stumps,  if  much  decayed,  sometimes 
on  them,  or  on  shaded  lawns  and  grassy  places.  June  to  October. 

Var.  furfu'racea  Pk.      Stem  furfuraceous,  less  distinctly  striate. 

Var.  pusil'la  Pk.  Plant  small.  Pileus  about  i  in.  broad,  passing 
gradually  into  the  typical  form.  Stem  slender. 

Professor  Peck  says:  "The  variety  furfuracea  is  common  and  connects 
this  species  with  C.  longipes,  which  has  a  villose  stem  and  dry  velvety 
pileus."  49th  Rep. 

Common  to  the  United  States.  Edible.  Curtis,  according  to  Dr.  F. 
Peyre  Porcher  of  Charleston,  S.  C.,  was  the  first  to  declare  this  edible. 

A  very  attractive  species.  The  purity  of  its  gills  is  especially  notice- 
able. I  began  eating  it  in  1881,  and  it  has  continued  to  be  a  favorite. 
The  caps  should  be  broiled  or  fried.  They  are  sweet,  pleasing  in  texture, 
and  delicately  flavored. 

C.  platyphyl'la  Fr.  Gr.— broad;  a  leaf.  (Plate  XXIXa,  fig.  i, 
p.  114.)  Pileus  3-4  in.  broad,  dusky  and  gray  then  whitish,  fleshy- 
membranaceous,  thin,  fragile,  soon  flattened,  obtuse,  watery  when  moist, 
streaked  with  fibrils.  Stem  3-4  in.  long,  ,^  in.  thick,  stuffed,  soft, 
equal,  fibrilloso-striate,  otherwise  smooth,  naked  or  obsoletely  powdered 
at  the  apex,  whitish,  shortly  and  bluntly  rooted  at  the  base.  Gills  ob- 
liquely cut  off  behind,  slightly  adnexed,  /£  in.  and  more  broad,  distant, 
soft,  white. 

Odor  not  remarkable.  It  inclines  toward  the  Tricholomata  in  the 
somewhat  membranaceous  cuticle  of  the  soft  stem.  Fries. 

Spores  i3xi9/*  W.G.S. 

Solitary,  gregarious,  rarely  clustered.  On  rotten  wood,  roots,  ground 
near  stumps,  among  leaves,  etc.  June  to  October. 

Distinguished  by  the  very  broad  and  deeply  emarginate  gills,  which 
frequently  slope  up  behind  to  near  the  cap  then  with  a  short  turn  down- 
ward connect  with  the  stem  which  is  either  stuffed  or  hollow,  and  by 
the  abundant,  cord-like  rooting  mycelium.  The  gills  are  very  broad. 
Professor  Peck  says:  "The  species  is  quite  variable.  The  pileus  is 
sometimes  irregular  and  even  eccentric,  the  thin  margin  may  be  slightly 
striate,  is  often  split  and  in  wet  weather  may  be  upturned  or  revolute. 
The  lamellae  are  sometimes  3£  in.  broad  or  more  and  transversely  split. 
They  may  be  obscurely  striated  transversely  and  even  veiny  above  with 

114 


PLATE  XXIXA. 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Briscoe  —  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


F-{G-  _,  PAGE.       FIG. 

9      COLLYBIA  PLATYPHYLLA  114  3.      COtLYBIA  DRYOPHILA, 

1.     COLLYBIA  PLATYPHYLLA  (AFTER  RAIN),      114  4.     COLLYBIA  FUSIPES, 


PAGE. 
120 
116 


Leucosporse 

venose  interspaces.     Occasionally  a  slight  anise-like  odor  is  perceptible,  Coiiybia. 
but  in  decay  the  plants  have  "a  very  disagreeable  odor  and  disgusting 
appearance."     49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  1880-1885;  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  1896.  Gregari- 
ous, and  in  large  bunches.  Mt.  Gretna  and  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  1897, 
Mcllvaine. 

When  fresh,  in  good  condition,  the  caps  are  good,  but  they  are  not 
nearly  equal  in  substance  or  flavor  to  C.  radicata  and  C.  longipes.  They 
are  best  broiled  or  fried. 

Var.  re'pens  Fr.  PileilS  more  fleshy,  depressed.  Stem  hollow, 
compressed,  pruinate  at  the  apex,  with  a  creeping,  string-like  mycelium. 

It  is  best  distinguished  by  its  white,  villous,  anastomosing,  very 
much  branched  mycelium  which  creeps  a  long  distance  in  a  rooting 
string-like  manner.  The  so-called  roots  are  quite  different  from  the 
stem,  not  a  prolongation  of  the  stem  itself.  Fries. 

Clearly  a  variety  of  C.  platyphylla.  C.  platyphylla  is  quite  variable, 
even  puzzling.  Edible  qualities  the  same. 

C.  longfipes  Bull. — longus,  long;  pes,  a  foot.  Pileus  1-2  in.  across, 
conical  then  expanded,  umbonate,  dry,  minutely,  beautifully  velvety. 
Color  from  pale  to  date-brown,  sometimes  umber.  Flesh  white,  thin, 
elastic.  Gills  white,  broad,  tough,  thick,  adnexed,  distant,  ventricose, 
rounded  behind,  emarginate.  Stem  4—6  in.  long,  2—4  lines  thick,  taper- 
ing upward,  usually  densely  and  minutely  velvety  like  the  cap,  nearly 
same  color,  with  a  long,  tapering  root. 

On  much  decayed  stumps  and  logs.  July  to  October.  Closely  re- 
sembles C.  radicata.  It  is  readily  distinguished  by  its  velvety  cap  and 
stem.  It  is  more  glutinous. 

Spores  spheroid,   12/u.  Q. 

California.      Edible.     H.  and  M. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  1880-1885;  Cheltenham,  Pa.,  1889.  Mc- 
llvaine. 

Excepting  from  California,  C.  longipes  has  not  previously  been  re- 
ported as  found  in  the  United  States.  It  is  not  plentiful  in  the  forests 
of  West  Virginia,  yet  I  often  found  it  upon  rotting  stumps  and  logs, 
solitary,  but  up  to  a  dozen  in  the  same  vicinity.  It  is  unmistakable.  Its 
rich  yet  dull  velvety  cap  and  stem  and  the  purity  of  its  gills  hold  the 
finder's  admiration. 


Agaricaceae 

Cuiiybia.       The  caps  fried  or  broiled  are  delicious,  resembling  in  every  way  those 
of  C.  radicata. 

C.  fu'sipes  Bull. — fusus,  a  spindle;  pes,  a  foot.  (Plate  XXIXa, 
fig.  4,  p.  112.)  PileilS  1—3  in.  broad,  reddish-brown,  becoming  pale 
and  also  dingy-tan,  fleshy,  convex  then  flattened,  umbonate  (the  umbo 
at  length  vanishing),  even,  smooth,  dry,  here  and  there  broken  up  in 
cracks  when  dry.  Stem  3  in.  and  more  long,  commonly  %.  in.,  but 
here  and  there  as  much  as  I  in.  broad,  fibrous-stuffed  then  hollow,  re- 
markably cartilaginous  externally,  swollen,  ventricose  in  the  middle,  at- 
tenuated at  both  ends,  often  twisted,  longitudinally  furrowed,  red  or 
reddish-brown,  rooted  in  a  spindle-shaped  manner  at  the  base.  Gills  an- 
nulato-adnexed  (joined  into  a  ring),  soon  separating,  free,  broad,  dis- 
tant, firm,  connected  by  veins,  crisped,  white  then  becoming  somewhat 
of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus,  often  spotted.  Stevenson. 

Spores  6x3^  W.G.S.;  4-5x2-4^  B. 

Solitary,  gregarious,  usually  densely  clustered  on  decaying  wood, 
roots,  etc.  August  until  after  heavy  frosts. 

West  Virginia,  1882,  Mcllvaine. 

In  the  West  Virginia  mountains  C.  fusipes  is  frequent.  Caps  in  the 
clusters  rarely  exceed  I  %.  in.  across.  They  show  an  auburn  or  bur- 
gundy shade  of  brown  in  their  color.  When  young  they  are  smooth 
and  appear  to  remain  so  unless  rained  upon  or  moistened,  when  they 
crack  more  or  less  finely  in  drying.  At  first  the  connection  of  the  gills 
with  the  stem  is  peculiar — they  join  in  a  collar-like  ring  at  the  top  of  the 
stem.  As  the  cap  expands  the  gills  part  more  or  less  and  separate 
from  the  stem.  The  stem  is  markedly  spindle-shaped,  though  variously 
flattened  by  compression  in  dense  clusters;  the  outside  often  splitting, 
breaking  and  turning  out  from  the  stem. 

The  caps,  alone,  are  good,  the  stem  being  hard  and  refractory.  The 
caps  are  very  fine,  cooked  in  any  way. 

The  caps  dry  well,  and  are  a  pleasant  addition  to  gravies,  soups  and 
other  dishes.  They  make  a  choice  pickle. 

** Gills  narrow,  crowded. 

C.  macula'ta  A.  and  S. — macula,  a  spot.  Pileus  fleshy,  firm,  con- 
vex or  nearly  plane,  even,  glabrous,  white  or  whitish,  sometimes  varied 

116 


Leucosporae 

with  reddish  spots  or  stains.  Flesh  white.  Gills  narrow,  crowded,  Coiiybia. 
adnexed,  sometimes  nearly  or  quite  free,  white  or  whitish.  Stem  gen- 
erally stout,  firm,  equal  or  slightly  swollen  in  the  middle,  striate,  white, 
stuffed  or  sometimes  hollow,  commonly  narrowed  at  the  base,  rooting, 
often  curved  at  the  base,  rarely  slightly  thickened  and  blunt.  Spores 
subglobose,  4— 6/A  broad,  sometimes  showing  a  slight  point  at  one  end. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Var.  immacula'ta  Cke.  This  differs  from  the  type  in  having  no  red- 
dish spots  or  stains. 

This  species  is  easily  recognized  by  its  large  size,  firm  or  compact 
substance  and  white  color.  It  grows  in  soil  filled  with  decaying  vegeta- 
ble matter  or  on  much  decayed  wood.  Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Weed  grown  lot  near  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania. September  to  frost.  Grew  gregariously  over  a  large  lot. 
The  plants  varied  greatly  in  size  and  appearance.  The  gills  of  most 
were  crenulate  (scalloped).  Assorted  specimens  were  sent  Professor 
Peck  who  wrote:  "They  are  all  forms  of  C.  maculata." 

The  caps  were  stewed  and  eaten  in  abundance  by  many,  and  pro- 
nounced "Fine." 

C.  butyra'cea  Bull. — butyrum,  butter;  buttery  to  the  touch.  PileilS 
2-3  in.  broad,  normally  reddish-  (Plate  XXX.)^ 
brown,  but  becoming  pale,  fleshy, 
convex  then  expanded,  more  or  less 
ninbonate,  dry,  even,  smooth.  Flesh 
buttery,  soft,  somewhat  hygrophan- 
ous,  flesh-color  then  white.  Stem 
2-3  in.  long,  attemiated  upward  from 
the  thickened  white  downy  base, 
hence  much  thinner  at  the  apex,  2-3 
lines  only,  but  at  the  base  %-\  in. 
thick,  externally  covered  over  with  a 
rigid  cartilaginous  cuticle,  internally 
stuffed  with  soft  spongy  pith,  or  hol- 
low only  when  old,  striate,  reddish. 

COLLYBIA    BUTYRACEA. 

commonly  smooth,  but  varying  with 

white  deciduous  scales,  and  occasionally  wholly  downy  with  soft  hairs. 


117 


Agaricaceae 

Coiiybia.  Gills  slightly  adnexed,  somewhat  free,  thin,  crowded,  notched  at  the 
edge,  white,  never  spotted-reddish.  Stevenson. 

Spores  6-IOX3-5/A  B.;  elliptical,  7-9x4-5/11. 

Cap  greasy  looking.      Umbo  dark. 

The  color  of  the  cap  is  variable.  The  species  differs  from  C.  dry- 
ophila  in  having  an  umbonate  pileus,  slightly  uneven  gill-edges  and 
stem  which  tapers  upward. 

Solitary  and  in  troops  under  coniferous  trees.      Spring,  autumn. 

West  Virginia,  Chester  county  and  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  Mcllvaine. 

The  caps  cook  quickly,  are  tender  and  have  a  good  flavor. 


VESTI'PEDES. 
*  Gills  broad,  rather  distant. 

C.  vein' tipes Curt. — velutum,  velvet;  pes,  afoot.  Pileus  1-4  in.  broad 
(Plate  XXXI.)  in  the  same  cluster,  tawny,  some- 
times paler  at  the  margin,  moder- 
ately fleshy  at  the  disk,  but  thin  at 
the  circumference,  convex  then  soon 
becoming  plane,  often  eccentric,  ir- 
regular and  bent  backward,  smooth, 
viscous;  margin  spreading  and  at 
length  slightly  striate .  Flesh  watery, 
soft,  slightly  tawny-hyaline.  Stem 
1-3  in.  long,  1-4  lines  thick,  tough, 
externally  cartilaginous,  umber  then 
becoming  black,  densely,  minutely  vel- 
vety, commonly  ascending  or  twisted, 
commonly  equal,  even,  internally 
fibrous-stuffed  and  hollow.  Gills 
broader  and  rounded  behind,  slightly 
adnexed,  so  as  at  first  sight  to  appear 
free,  somewhat  distant,  very  unequal, 
becoming  pallid-yellow  or  tawny .  Fr. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  7/u.  W.G.  S.;  6x41*  B.  ;   elliptical,  7x3-3.5/1*  Massee. 

Our  American  plant,  common  to  the  states,  is  rarely  found  attaining 
such  dimensions.  Its  usual  size  is  from  1-2  in.  across,  more  frequently 

118 


COLLYBIA    VELUTIPES. 

Natural  size. 


Leucosporse 

at  i-i  K .  It  is  generally  found  in  clusters  more  or  less  dense.  The  CoUybia. 
color  varies  from  yellowish  to  a  dark  yellowish-brown.  The  center  is 
darker  than  the  margin.  The  cap  viscid  when  moist,  often  irregular 
from  crowding.  Gills  may  be  rounded  or  notched  at  their  attachment 
to  the  stem,  whitish  or  yellowish.  Stem  usually  hollow,  1-4  in.  long, 
1-3  lines  thick,  whitish  when  young  becoming  colored  with  the  dense 
brownish  velvety  hairs. 

It  grows  on  stumps,  roots  in  the  ground,  trunks  and  earth  heavily 
charged  with  wood  matter.  I  have  found  it  in  every  month  of  the  year. 
The  heavier  crop  appears  in  September,  October  and  November,  and 
lasts  until  long  after  heavy  frosts.  Then  sporadic  clusters  spring  up 
wherever  the  winter  sun  gives  them  encouragement. 

It  sometimes  does  considerable  damage  to  the  tree  so  unfortunate  as 
to  be  its  host.  It  begins  its  growth  upon  some  injured  or  decayed  spot 
and  by  continually  insinuating  itself  under  the  surrounding  bark  it,  by 
its  mycelium  and  growth,  pries  the  bark  away  from  the  wood  until  the 
tree  is  entirely  denuded. 

It  is  a  valuable  species,  not  only  on  account  of  its  continuous  growth, 
but  because  of  its  plentifulness  and  excellent  substance. 

**  Gills  very  narrow,  closely  crowded. 

C.  COn'flliens  Pers. — Pileus  %—i  %  in.  broad,  thin,  tough,  flaccid, 
convex  or  nearly  plane,  obtuse,  rarely  somewhat  umbonate,  glabrous, 
hygrophanous,  reddish  grayish-red  or  reddish-brown  and  often  striatu- 
late  on  the  margin  when  moist,  pallid,  whitish  or  grayish  when  dry. 
Lamellae  narrow,  crowded,  free,  whitish  or  yellowish-gray.  Stem  2-5 
in.  long,  i-2  lines  thick,  equal,  cartilaginous,  hollow,  clothed  with  a  short 
dense  somewhat  pulverulent  whitish  pubescence  or  down.  Spores 
minute  ovate  or  subelliptical,  slightly  pointed- at  one  end,  5—6x3—4/1. 

Among  fallen  leaves  in  woods.      Common.      July  to  October. 

The  plants  commonly  grow  in  tufts,  but  sometimes  in  lines  or  arcs  of 
circles  or  scattered.  They  revive  under  the  influence  of  moisture  and 
thereby  indicate  an  intimate  relationship  to  the  genus  Marasmius.  The 
pileus  varies  much  in  color,  but  commonly  has  a  dull  reddish  or  russety 
tinge  when  moist,  sometimes  approaching  bay-red.  It  fades  in  drying 
and  becomes  almost  white  or  grayish-white,  but  sometimes  the  center 
remains  more  deeply  colored  than  the  margin.  The  stem  is  commonly 

119 


Agaricaceee 

Coiiybia.  rather  long  in  proportion  to  the  width  of  the  pileus.  Occasionally  it  is 
somewhat  flattened  either  at  the  top  or  throughout  its  entire  length. 
Sometimes  the  stems  become  united  at  the  base  which  union  is  sug- 
gestive of  the  specific  name.  Peck,  49th  Rep. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine.     July  to  frost. 

The  caps  of  C.  confluens  are  of  excellent  substance  and  flavor.  Their 
quantity  makes  up  for  their  small  size.  I  have  gathered  them  2  in. 
across,  but  their  average  size  is  about  i  in.  They  dry  well. 

L^EVI'PEDES. 
*  Gills  broad,  more  or  less  distant. 

C.  esculen'ta  Wulf . — esculent.  Pileus  %  in.  and  more  broad,  ochrace- 
ous-clay,  often  becoming  dusky,  slightly  fleshy,  convex  then  plane, 
orbicular,  obtuse,  smooth,  even  or  when  old  slightly  striate.  Flesh 
tough,  white,  savory.  Stem  I  in.  and  more  long,  scarcely  I  line 
thick,  or  thread-like  and  wholly  equal,  obsoletely  tubed,  tough,  stiff  and 
straight,  even,  smooth,  slightly  shining,  clay-yellow,  with  a  long  perpen- 
dicular, commonly  smooth,  tail-like  root.  Grills  adnexed,  even  decur- 
rent  with  a  very  thin  small  tooth,  then  separating,  very  broad,  limber, 
somewhat  distant,  whitish,  sometimes  clay-color. 

Gregarious  but  never  cespitose.  The  tube  of  the  stem  is  very  narrow. 
Stevenson. 

The  smallest  edible  Collybia.  Cooke.  Edible.  In  dense  woods. 
Curtis.  It  is  dried  and  preserved.  Cordier. 

In  pastures  and  grassy  places.      Spring  and  early  summer. 

Edible,  but  rather  bitter  flavor.  In  Austria,  where  it  is  in  great 
plenty  in  April,  large  baskets  are  brought  to  market  under  the  name  of 
Nagelschwamme — nail  mushrooms. 

Professor  Peck  describes  C.  esculentoides  Pk.,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State 
Bot.,  which  he  states:  "Differs  from  the  type  in  its  paler  and  more 
ochraceous  color  and  in  its  farinaceous  flavor,  and  is  related  to  the 
European  C.  esculenta  from  which  it  differs  essentially  in  the  umbilicate 
pileus  and  in  the  absence  of  any  radicating  base  to  the  stem." 

**  Gills  narrow,  crowded. 

C.  dryophil'aBull.  Gr. — oak-loving.  (Plate  XXIX0,  fig,  3, p.  112.) 
Pileus  1-3  in.  across,  bay-brown-rufous,  etc.,  becoming  pale,  but  not 

1 20 


Leucosporae 

hygrophanous,  slightly  fleshy,  tough,  convexo-plane,  obtuse,  commonly  Coiiybia. 
depressed  in  the  center,  even,  smooth;  margin  at  first  inflexed  then  flat- 
tened. Flesh  thin,  white.  Stem  1-3  in.  long,  1-3  lines  thick,  car- 
tilaginous, remarkably  tubed,  thin,  even,  smooth,  somewhat  rooting, 
commonly  becoming  yellow  or  reddish.  Gills  somewhat  free,  with  a 
small  decurrent  tooth,  but  appearing  adnexed  when  the  pileus  is  de- 
pressed, crowded,  narrow,  distinct,  plane,  white  or  becoming  pale. 

There  are  numerous  monstrous  forms  which  are  very  deceiving:  a. 
Stem  elongated,  waved,  decumbent,  inflated  at  the  base  ;  pileus  broader, 
lobed;  gills  white,  b.  Fnnicnlaris ,  larger,  cespitose,  the  lax  and  de- 
cumbent stem  equal  and  hairy  at  the  base,  gills  sulphur-yellow.  These 
forms,  analagous  with  A.  repens  Bull.,  occur  on  heaps  of  leaves,  c. 
Countless  specimens  growing  together  in  a  large  cluster;  stems  thick, 
inflated,  irregularly  shaped,  sulcate,  brown,  the  mycelium  collecting  the 
soil  in  the  form  of  a  ball ;  pileus  very  irregularly  shaped,  full  of  angles, 
undulated,  blackish  then  bay-brown.  In  gardens.  Stevenson. 

Spores  elliptic-fusiform,  7-8x4^;  6//.  W.G.S. 

Professor  Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot.,  gives  the  following: 
Pileus  thin,  convex  or  nearly  plane,  sometimes  with  the  margin  elevated, 
irregular,  obtuse,  glabrous,  varying  in  color,  commonly  some  shade  of 
bay-red  or  tan-color.  Flesh  white.  Lamellae  narrow,  crowded,  ad- 
nexed or  almost  free,  white  or  whitish,  rarely  yellowish.  Stem  equal 
or  sometimes  thickened  at  the  base,  cartilaginous,  glabrous,  hollow,  yel- 
lowish or  rufescent,  commonly  similar  in  color  to  the  pileus.  Spores, 
6-8x3-4^. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  1-2  lines  thick. 

Woods,  groves  and  open  places.      Common.     June  to  October. 

West  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  Mcll- 
vaine. 

C.  dryophila  is  so  common  and  variable  that  descriptions  would  fail 
to  cover  it  in  its  eccentricities.  The  writer  has  eaten  it  in  all  the  forms 
obtained  since  1881.  A  very  pretty  form  grew  in  large  quantities 
among  pine  needles  at  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  in  August,  1897.  It  was 
cooked  and  served  at  the  hotel  table.  Many  ate  it  and  were  delighted. 

Dr.  Badham  refers  to  a  case  in  which  illness  was  caused  by  eating  it. 
In  my  eighteen  years'  experience  with  it,  knowing  it  to  have  been  en- 
joyably  eaten  by  scores  of  persons,  I  have  not  heard  of  the  slightest 
discomfort  from  it. 

121 


Agaricacese 


Coiiybia.  C.  spinillifera  Pk. — spinula,  a  little  thorn.  Pileus  fleshy,  thin,  con- 
vex or  nearly  plane,  glabrous,  hygrophanous  reddish  tan-color  tinged 
with  pink  and  slightly  striatulate  on  the  margin  when  moist,  paler  when 
dry,  adorned  with  minute  colored  spinules  or  setae.  Gills  narrow,  close, 
rounded  behind  and  free,  pale  cinnamon-color,  becoming  somewhat 
darker  with  age,  spinuliferous.  Stem  slender,  tough,  glabrous,  shining, 
hollow,  reddish-brown,  often  paler  or  whitish  at  the  top,  especially  in 
young  plants,  with  a  whitish  myceloid  tomentum  at  the  base.  Spores 
elliptical  or  nearly  so,  47*. 

Plant  cespitose.  Pileus  8-16  lines  broad.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  about 
I  line  thick. 

Prostrate  trunks  and  ground  among  leaves  in  woods.  Lewis  county. 
September. 

In  this  species  the  lamellae,  under  a  lens,  appear  to  be  minutely 
pubescent  or  velvety.  This  is  due  to  the  colored  spinules  or  setae  which 
clothe  them.  Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Angora,  Pa.  September,  1897.  Among  moss  in  mixed  woods. 
September  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

Specimens  identified  by  Professor  Peck.   Stems  of  some  tapered  at  base. 

Excepting  the  extreme  base  of  stems  the  whole  plant  is  tender  and 


of  good  flavor. 
(  Plate  XXXIo.) 


COLLYBIA    ACERVATA    (young). 


C.  acerva'ta  Fr. — acervus,  a  heap. 
Pileus  fleshy  but  thin,  convex 
or  nearly  plane,  obtuse,  glabrous, 
hygrophanous,  pale  tan-color  or 
dingy  pinkish-red  and  commonly 
striatulate  on  the  margin  when  moist, 
paler  or  whitish  when  dry.  Gills 
narrow,  close,  adnexed  or  free,  whit- 
ish or  tinged  with  flesh-color.  Stem 
slender,  rigid,  hollow,  glabrous,  red- 
dish, reddish-brown  or  brown,  often 
whitish  at  the  top,  especially  when 
young,  commonly  with  a  white 
matted  down  at  the  base.  Spores 
elliptical,  6x3-4/x.. 

Plant  cespitose.     PileilS    1-2  in. 
broad.     Stem  2-3  in.  long,  about  I 
line  thick. 
122 


Leucosporae 

Decaying  wood  and  ground  among  fallen  leaves  in  woods.    Adirondack  Coiiybia 
mountains.     August  and  September.      Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

This  very  pretty  plant  resembles  forms  of  C.  dryophila.  The  color- 
ing of  the  stems  is  often  extremely  delicate,  like  paintings  upon  rice 
paper. 

West  Virginia  mountains;  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.  August  to  frost.  Mc- 
Ilvaine, 

The  entire  plant  is  tender,  delicate  and  of  fine  flavor.  In  these  quali- 
ties it  is  not  distinguishable  when  cooked  from  the  smaller  forms  of  C. 
dryophila. 


523 


Agaricaceae 


MYCE'NA  Fr. 

Gr. — a  fungus. 

Mycena.       PileuS  regular,  rarely  depressed  in  the  center,  thin,  usually  streaked 


(Plate  XXXII.) 


MYCENA    GALERICULATA. 


with  longitudinal  lines,  at  first  con- 
ico-cylindrical,  margin  at  the  first 
straight,  closely  embracing  the  stem 
which  is  attenuated  upward.  Stem 
hollow,  slender,  cartilaginous.  Gills 
adnate  or  adnexed,  sometimes  with  a 
small  tooth,  never  decurrent.  Spores 
white. 

Generally  small  and  slender,  grow- 
ing on  branches,  twigs,  heaps  of 
leaves,  sometimes  on  the  ground, 
some  minute  species  on  single  dead 
leaves.  Long,  rooting  stems  are  not 
uncommon.  Clitocybe  and  Ompha- 
lia  are  separated  by  their  decurrent 
gills  and  in  Collybia  the  margin  is 
at  first  incurved. 

In  this  genus  the  species  of  the  various  sections  are  not  always  dis- 
tinguished by  single  sharply  defined  characteristics,  so  that  it  will  some- 
times be  necessary  to  pay  attention  to  all  the  features.  Species  with  a 
thread-like  stem  are  found  in  other  sections  than  Filipedes  and  some  of 
the  Lactipedes  are  slippery  when  moist,  but  not  truly  viscous. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

CALODONTES  (kalos,  beautiful;   odontes,  teeth).     Page  126. 

Stem  juiceless,  not  dilated  into  a  disk  at  the  base.  Edges  of  gills 
darker,  minutely  toothed. 

ADONIDE^E  (Adonis,  referring  to  beauty).     Page  126. 

Stem  juiceless,  not  dilated  at  the  base.  Gills  of  one  color,  not  chang- 
ing color.  Color  pure-colored,  bright,  not  becoming  brownish  or  gray. 
On  the  ground. 

124 


Lencospone 

RlGlPEDES  (rigid-stemmed).      Page  126.  Mycena. 

Stem  firm,  rigid,  rather  tough,  juiceless,  more  or  less  rooting.  Gills 
changing  color,  white,  then  gray  or  reddish,  generally  at  length  con- 
nected by  veins. 

Tough,  persistent,  inodorous,  usually  on  wood,  very  cespitose,  but 
individuals  of  the  same  species  sometimes  grow  singly  on  the  ground. 

FRAGILIPEDES  (fragile-stemmed).     Page  130. 

Stem  fragile,  juiceless,  fibrillose  at  the  base,  scarcely  rooting.  Pileus 
hygrophanous.  Gills  becoming  discolored  ,  at  length  somewhat  connected 
by  veins. 

Thin,  fragile,  often  soft,  normally  growing  singly  on  the  ground.  A 
few  strong  smelling,  cespitose  on  wood. 

FlLIPEDES  (thread-stemmed).      Page  130. 

Stem  thread-like,  flaccid,  somewhat  tough,  rooting,  juiceless,  generally 
extremely  long  in  proportion  to  the  pileus.  Gills  becoming  discolored, 
paler  at  the  edge. 

Straight,  growing  singly  on  the  ground;  inodorous.  Pileus  dingy- 
brown,  becoming  paler. 

LACTIPEDES  (milky-stemmed).      Page  130. 
Gills  and  rooting  stem  milky  when  broken. 

GLUTINIPEDES  (glutinous-stemmed).     Page  131. 

Stem  juiceless  but  externally  sticky  with  gluten.  Gills  at  length  de- 
current  with  a  tooth. 

BASIPEDES  (base-stemmed).     Page  131. 

Stem  dry,  rootless,  the  base  naked  and  dilated  into  a  disk  or  small 
hairy  bulb.  Growing  singly,  slender,  soon  becoming  flaccid. 


(insero,  to  insert  or  graft).      Page  131. 

Stem  very  thin,  dry,  growing  as  if  inserted  in  the  supporting  surface, 
not  downy,  not  disk-like  at  the  base. 

Gills  adnate  with  a  small  decurrent  tooth.      Small,  very  tender,  be- 
coming flaccid  with  the  first  touch  of  the  sun. 

125 


Agaricaceee 

Mycena.  Mycena  is  a  large  genus  composed  of  small  species.  About  sixty 
members  have  been  found  in  America.  They  are  from  %  to  I  in. 
across  the  cap,  with  thin  stems  and  altogether  delicate  appearance.  Yet 
the  flesh  of  most  of  them  has  a  gummy  consistency  in  the  mouth,  and 
they  shrink  but  little  in  stewing.  Heretofore  not  any  appear  to  have 
been  reported  as  edible,  probably  because  the  size  of  the  species  has  not 
attracted  experimenters.  While  some  have  a  strong  odor  and  taste  of 
radishes,  and  one  species  is  bitter,  it  is  probable  that  all  are  edible. 
The  writer  has  eaten,  raw  and  cooked,  small  quantities  (all  he  has  found) 
of  many  species  not  here  reported  as  edible,  which  will,  when  further 
tested,  be  reported  upon. 

The  substance  and  flavor  of  those  here  given  is  remarkably  pleasant. 
Their  late  coming,  hardiness  and  abundance  are  commendable  qualities. 

I. — CALODON'TES.     Stem  juiceless.     Gills  minutely  toothed. 

None  tested. 

II. — ADONI'DE/E.       Stem  juiceless.       Gills  of  one  color,   etc. 

None  tested. 

III. — RlGIDl'PEDES.      Stem  rigid.      Gills  at  first  white,  changing 

color,  etc. 

M.  prolifera  Sow. — proles,  offspring;  fero,  to  bear.  (Plate  X,  figs. 
6,  7,  p.  28.)  PileilS  %-iK  in.  across,  slightly  fleshy,  expanded  bell- 
shape,  dry,  the  broad  umbo  darker  (dingy-brown),  slightly  striate,  and 
at  length  furrowed  or  rimosely  split  at  the  margin  (pale  yellowish  or 
becoming  brownish-tan).  Stem  2^-3  in.  long,  firm,  rigid,  smooth, 
shining,  slightly  striate,  rooted.  Gills  adnexed,  somewhat  distinct,  be- 
coming pale  white. 

Inodorous,  only  at  length  nauseous.  Very  closely  allied  to  M.  galeri- 
culata,  in  habit  approaching  nearest  to  M.  cohserens.  The  stems  are 
pallid  at  the  apex,  but  slightly  tawny-bay-brown  below,  and  glued  to- 
gether by  hairy  down  at  the  base.  There  is  a  white  form  with  trans- 
parent stem — on  trunks.  Fries. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  On  ground  in  grass.  Mycelium  spreading  on 
leaves .  Mcllvaine . 

126 


Leucosporae 

Found  in  great  plenty.     Base  of  stems  is  sometimes  white  when  in  Mycena. 
dense  tufts. 

The  whole  plant  is  tender,  cooking  in  fifteen  minutes,  and  is  of  fine 
flavor.  No  one  will  want  a  better  fungus. 

M.  mgo'sa  Fr. — ruga,  a  wrinkle.  PileilS  ash-color  but  becoming 
pale,  very  tough,  slightly  fleshy  at  the  disk,  otherwise  membranaceous, 
bell-shaped  then  expanded,  at  length  rather  plane,  somewhat  obtuse, 
more  or  less  corrugated  (unequal  with  elevated  wrinkles),  always  dry, 
not  moist  even  in  rainy  weather,  striate  at  the  circumference.  Stem 
commonly  short,  remarkably  cartilaginous,  tubed,  rigid,  tough,  straight, 
at  length  compressed,  even,  smooth,  pallid,  with  a  short  oblique  hairy 
root.  Gills  arcnato-adnate ,  with  a  decurrent  tooth,  united  behind  in  a 
collar,  somewhat  distant,  connected  by  veins,  broad,  ventricose,  white 
then  gray,  edge  sometimes  quite  entire,  sometimes  with  saw-like  teeth. 

Always  inodorous.  Formerly  connected  with  M.  galericulata.  M. 
rugosa  is  arid,  very  tough,  more  rarely  cespitose,  the  pileus  firm,  some- 
what obtuse,  wrinkled  but  without  striae,  the  gills  arcuato-adnate  with 
a  hooked  tooth,  white  then  ash-color.  The  genuine  M.  galericulata  is 
fasciculato-cespitose,  somewhat  fragile,  the  pileus  thinner,  at  first  con- 
ical and  umbonate,  striate  without  wrinkles,  the  gills  adnate,  with  a  de- 
current  tooth,  white  then  flesh-color.  Between  these  there  is  a  long 
series  of  intermediate  forms.  Fries. 

California,  H.  and  M. ;  Kansas,  Cragin;  Wisconsin,  Bundy;  New 
York,  September,  Peck,  46th  Rep.;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Penn- 
sylvania. On  decaying  wood  and  ground  near  stumps.  August  to 
November.  Mcllvaine. 

The  tenacity  frequently  occurring  in  Mycena  is  well  shown  in  this  spe- 
cies. The  caps  and  stem  cook  tender,  but  it  is  better  to  discard  the 
stems,  as  the  two  do  not  become  tender  at  the  same  time. 

M.  galericula'ta  Scop. — -galericulum,  a  small  peaked  cap.  (Plate 
X,  fig.  5,  p.  28.)  Pileus  somewhat  membranaceous,  conical  bell- 
shaped  then  expanded,  striate  to  the  umbo,  dry,  smooth,  becoming 
brownish-livid  or  changeable  in  color.  Stem  rigid,  polished,  even, 
smooth,  with  a  spindle-shaped  root  at  the  base.  Gills  adnate,  decurrent 
with  a  tooth,  connected  by  veins,  whitish  and  flesh-colored. 

Very  protean.  Normally  growing  in  bunches,  the  numerous  stems 

127 


Agaricaceae 

Mycena.  (never  sticky)  glued  together  with  soft  hairy  down  at  the  base.  But  it 
occurs  also  solitary,  larger,  pileus  as  much  as  2  in.  broad,  wrinkled- 
striate.  The  essential  marks  by  which  it  is  distinguished  from  A.  rugosa 
are  these :  Stem  in  general  thinner,  less  tense  and  straight,  often  curved, 
more  fragile.  Pileus  membranaceous,  conico  bell-shaped,  umbonate, 
striate  but  not  corrugated,  moist  in  rainy  weather.  Gills  adnate,  with 
a  decurrent  tooth,  more  crowded,  whitish  then  flesh-colored.  The  color 
both  of  the  pileus  (normally  dingy-brownish  then  livid)  and  of  the  stem 
(normally  becoming  livid-brownish)  is  much  more  changeable  than  that 
of  A.  rugosa,  becoming  yellow,  rust  colored,  etc.  It  is  not  so  tough 
and  pliant  as  A.  rugosa.  Forms  departing  from  the  type  are  very  nu- 
merous; the  most  beautiful  is  var.  calopus  (6V.,  beautiful;  Gr. ,  afoot) 
with  chestnut-colored  stems,  united  in  a  spindle-shaped  tail.  Fries. 

Spores  spheroid  or  subspheroid,  9-iox6-8ft  K.;  8- 1 1x4-6/1,  B.; 
6-7x41*  Mas  see 

Common.      Autumnal.     Very  variable.      On  trunks,  fallen  leaves. 

Two  well-marked  varieties  of  this  very  variable  species  were  observed 
the  past  season.  One  grows  on  the  ground  among  fallen  leaves.  It  has 
a  dark  brown  pileus,  close  lamellae  and  a  very  long  stem,  generally  of  a 
delicate  pink  color  toward  the  top.  It  might  be  called  var.  longipcs. 
The  other  grows  under  pine  trees,  has  a  broadly  convex  or  expanded 
grayish-brown  pileus  and  a  short  stem.  It  might  be  called  var.  expansns. 
Peck,  26th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

'  'M.  alcalina  is  closely  allied  to  it  (M.  galericulata),  but  has  a  stronger 
alkaline  odor  and  a  rather  more  fragile  stem.  In  one  of  your  specimens 
I  detect  a  slight  incarnate  tint  to  the  gills,  and  this  is  pretty  conclusive 
evidence  that  it  belongs  to  M.  galericulata.  Species  of  Mycena  are  not 
generally  reckoned  among  edible  fungi  or  even  promising  fungi;  I  sup- 
pose on  account  of  the  thin  flesh  of  the  cap,  but  of  course  it  is  possible 
to  make  up  in  numbers  what  is  lacking  in  size.  I  am  glad  to  know  you 
have  found  this  to  be  an  esculent  one. "  Letter  Professor  Peck  to  C. 
Mcllvaine,  October  5,  1893. 

The  caps  and  stems  when  young  make  as  good  a  dish  as  one  cares  to 
eat.  The  substance  is  pleasant,  and  the  flavor  delicate.  They  are  best 
stewed  slowly  in  their  own  fluids,  after  washing,  for  ten  minutes  and 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter. 

M.  parabo'lica  Fr. — shaped  like  a  parabola.    Pileus  becoming  black 

128 


Leucosporse 

at  the  disk,  inclining  to  violaceous,  otherwise  becoming  pale,  whitish,  Mycena. 
somewhat  membranaceous,  at  first  erect  and  oval,  then  parabolic,  obtuse, 
never  expanded,  moist,  somewhat  shining  when  dry,  smooth,  even,  striate 
toward  the  entire  margin.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  I  line  thick,  tubed,  tense 
and  straight  but  not  very  rigid,  thickened  and  bearded-rooted  at  the 
base,  pale  below,  dark  violaceous  above,  when  young  white-mealy, 
otherwise  even,  smooth,  dry.  Gills  simply  adnate,  ascending,  some- 
what distant,  rarely  connected  by  veins,  quite  entire,  white,  somewhat 
gray  at  the  base. 

Stem  less  rigid  than  that  of  A.  galericulatus.  Truly  gregarious  or 
cespitose.  Fries. 

Spores  I2x6/u.  B.;  elliptical,  Ii-i2x6/i  Massee. 

Trenton,  N.  J.  June.  E.  B.  Sterling;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey, 
Pennsylvania,  on  decaying  stumps,  trunks  of  oak,  chestnut,  poplar,  pine. 
June  until  far  into  the  winter.  Mcllvaine. 

Plant  up  to  2%.  in.  high.  Caps  usually  about  /£  in.,  but  reaching 
K  in. 

A  neat,  attractive  plant,  whether  single  or  in  dense  tufts.  Its  smell 
is  strong  of  fresh  meal,  and  taste  of  that  delicate  flavor  one  finds  in  the 
succulent  base  of  the  round,  swamp  rush,  when  pulled  from  its  sheath 
— one  that  every  country  school  boy  and  girl  knows.  It  is  pleasant  raw, 
and  delicious  when  cooked. 

M.  latifo'lia  Pk. — lattis,  broad;  folium,  a  leaf.  Pileus  convex, 
rarely  somewhat  umbonate,  striatulate,  grayish-brown.  Gills  white, 
broad,  hooked,  decurrent-toothed.  Stem  slender,  smooth,  hollow,  sub- 
concolorous,  white-villous  at  the  base. 

Height  1-1.5  m-,  breadth  of  pileus  4-6  lines.     Stem  -5  lines  thick. 

Under  pine  trees.      Center.      October. 

A  small  species  with  quite  broad  gills,  growing  among  the  fallen 
leaves  of  pine  trees.  Gregarious.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Among  pine  needles,  scattered,  sometimes  four  or 
five  in  a  cluster.  September  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Autumnal.  Not  rare.  The  caps  though  small  are  tenacious  in  the 
mouth  and  lose  little  in  cooking.  The  substance  is  agreeable  and  flavor 
fine. 


129 


Agaricaceae 

IV. — pRAGILl'PEDES.      Stem  fragile,  juiceless,  etc.     None  tested. 

V. — FILI'PEDES.     Stem  thread-like,  etc. 

Mycena.  M.  collaria'ta  Fr. — collare,  a  collar.  Pileus  %  in.  and  more  broad, 
typically  dingy-brown,  but  becoming  pale,  commonly  gray-whitish,  be- 
coming brownish  only  at  the  disk,  membranaceous,  bell-shaped  then 
convex,  somewhat  umbonate,  striate,  when  dry  rigid,  smooth,  not  soft 
nor  slightly  silky.  Stem  about  2  in.  long,  tubed,  tliread-like  but  almost 
i  line  thick,  tough,  dry,  smooth,  even  or  slightly  striate  under  a  lens, 
becoming  pale.  Gills  adnate, _/W««/  in  a  collar  behind,  thin,  crowded, 
hoary-whitish  or  obsoletely  flesh-colored. 

The  gills  are  somewhat  distant  when  the  pileus  is  expanded.  There 
is  not  a  separate  collar  as  in  Marasmius  rotula;  the  gills  are  only  joined 
in  the  form  of  a  collar,  and  remain  cohering  when  they  separate  from 
the  stem.  Fries. 

Spores  8-IOX4-6/U,  B. 

New  York.  Old  stumps  and  rotten  logs.  June.  Peck,  23d  Rep. 
Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Cespitose  on  decaying  wood.  July,  September  and 
October.  Mcllvaine. 

Very  much  like  M.  galericulata,  but  gills  not  connected  by  veins. 
The  caps  usually  have  a  pinkish  hue,  often  brownish.  The  stems  are 
not  as  tender  as  the  caps.  The  flavor  is  excellent. 

VI. — LACTI'PEDES.     Stem  and  gills  milky,  etc. 

M.  hsema'topa  Pers.  Gr. — blood;  Gr. — a  foot.  Pileus  about  i  in. 
broad,  white  flesh-color,  fleshy-membranaceous.  slightly  fleshy  chiefly 
at  the  disk,  conical  then  bell-shaped,  obtuse,  nay  convex  and  spuriously 
umbonate,  naked,  even  or  slightly  striate  at  the  margin,  which  is  at  the 
first  elegantly  toothed.  Stem  2-4  in.  long,  i  line  and  more  thick,  re- 
markably tubed,  rigid,  normally  everywhere  powdered  with  whitish, 
delicate,  soft  hairy  down,  sometimes,  however,  denuded  of  it.  Gills 
adnate,  often  with  a  small  decurrent  tooth,  the  alternate  ones  shorter, 
in  front  disappearing  short  of  the  slight  margin  of  the  pileus,  whitish 
and  wholly  of  the  same  color  at  the  edge. 

Cespitose  (very  many  of  the  stems  conjoined  and  hairy  at  the  base), 

130 


Leucosporae 

firm,   stature  almost  that   of    M.   galericulata,   wholly  abounding  with  Mycena. 
dark  blood-colored  juice. 

On  stumps.      Frequent.      September.      Stevenson. 

Spores  spheroid-ellipsoid,   10x6-7/1*,  K. 

I  find  a  non-cespitose  form  of  this  species  with  red-margined  gills. 
Its  red  juice,  however,  will  serve  to  distinguish  it  and  show  its  true  re- 
lations. Peck,  3  ist  Rep. 

Common  in  tufts  like  M.  galericulata  and  of  about  the  same  size,  but 
is  readily  distinguished  by  its  red  juice.  This  pretty  plant  can  often  be 
gathered  in  considerable  quantity,  and  well  repays  the  collector. 

VII.  —  GLUTINI'PEDES.     Stems  gelatinous,  etc. 
None  tested. 

VIII.  —  BASI'PEDES.     Stem  dilated  at  base,  etc. 
None  tested. 


IX.  —  iNSm'Tl^E.     Stem  inserted. 
None  tested. 


*^-VS=_4^S=o^ 


Agaric  aceee 


HIA'TULA   Fr. 

Hio,  to  gape. 


Hiatula. 


(Plate  XXXIII.) 


HIATULA  WYNNI.E. 
time  placed  by  Fries.    Massee. 


Pileus  symmetrical,  very  thin, 
without  a  distinct  pellicle,  formed  by 
the  union  of  the  backs  of  the  gills, 
splitting  when  expanded.  Gills 
almost  or  quite  free,  white.  Stem 
central.  Spores  white. 

Allied  to  Lepiota  in  the  thin  pi- 
leus  and  free  gills,  but  differing  in 
the  entire  absence  of  a  ring.  Not 
at  all  deliquescent  as  in  the  genus 
Coprinus,  near  to  which  it  was  at  one 
Reported  from  North  Carolina. 


(Plate  XXXIV.) 


OMPHA'LIA  Fr. 

Gr. — belonging  to  an  umbilicus. 

omphaiia.       Pileus  generally  thin,  usually  umbilicate  at  first,  then  funnel-shaped, 

often  hygrophanous,  margin  incurved 
or  straight.  Gills  truly  decurrent 
from  the  first,  sometimes  branched. 
Stem  distinctly  cartilaginous,  pol- 
ished, tubular,  often  stuffed  when 
young.  Flesh  continuous  with  that  of 
the  pileus  but  differing  in  character. 
Spores  white,  somewhat  elliptical, 
smooth. 

Generally  on  wood,  preferring 
hilly  woods  and  a  damp  climate. 

Resembling  Collybia  and  Mycena 
in  the  flesh  of  stem  and  pileus  being 
different  in  texture  and  in  the  exter- 
nally cartilaginous  stem.  It  is  per- 


OMPHALIA    UMBELLIFERA. 
Enlarged  about  two  sizes. 


fectly  separated  by  the  gills  being  markedly  decurrent  from  the  first. 

132 


Leucosporee 

The  American  species  of  Omphalia  number  between  thirty-five  and  Omphaiia. 
forty.  Many  of  them  are  common.  Few  woods  are  free  from  them. 
Several  of  them  are  beautiful.  They  are  usually  small  and  lacking  in 
substance.  Raw,  the  writer  has  not  found  one  that  is  objectionable  in 
any  way;  a  few  have  a  woody  taste.  But  two  species  have  been  found 
by  him  in  sufficient  quantity  to  make  a  dish.  It  is  probable  that  all  are 
edible.  At  best  the  species  of  Omphalia  are  valuable  in  emergency  only. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

COLLYBARII. 
Pileus  dilated  from  the  first,  margin  incurved. 

MYCENARII. 
Pileus  campanulate  at  first,  margin  straight  and  pressed  to  the  stem. 

COLLYBA'RII. 
*  Pileus  dilated  from  the  first;  margin  incurved. 

0.  onis'cus  Fr.  Gr. — a  wood-louse.  From  the  ashy  color.  Pileus 
scarcely  I  in.  broad,  dark  ashy  becoming  pale,  gray-hoary  when  dry, 
somewhat  membranaceous,  or  slightly  fleshy,  flaccid,  fragile  when  old. 
convexo-umbilicate  or  funnel-shaped,  often  irregular,  undulato-flexuous, 
even-lobed,  smooth,  even,  margin  striate.  Stem  I  in.  long,  I  line  and 
more  thick,  stuffed  then  tubed,  slightly  firm,  moderately  tough,  some- 
times round,  curved,  sometimes  unequal,  compressed,  ascending,  un- 
dulated, gray .  Gills  shortly  decurrent,  somewhat  distant,  quaternate, 
ash-color.  Not  cespitose.  Fries. 

Spores  12x7-8)*  B. 

Massachusetts,  Sprague;  California,  H.  and  M.,  who  record  it  as 
edible. 

0.  umbellif  era — umbella,  a  little  shade ;  fero,  to  bear.  From  its  um- 
brella-like shape.  (Plate  XXXIV,  p.  132.)  Pileus  about  %  in.  broad, 
commonly  whitish,  slightly  fleshy-membranaceous,  convex  then  plane, 
broadly  obconic  with  the  decurrent  gills,  not  at  all  or  only  slightly  um- 
bilicate,  hygrophanous,  when  moist  watery,  rayed  with  darker  stria, 

133 


Agaricaceee 

Omphaiia.  when  dry  even,  changeable  in  appearance,  silky,  flocculose,  rarely 
squamulose,  the  margin,  which  is  at  first  in  flexed,  crenate  (scalloped). 
Stem  short,  not  exceeding  I  in.  long,  almost  I  line  thick,  stuffed  then 
soon  tubed,  slightly  firm,  equal  or  dilated  toward  the  apex  into  the 
pileus,  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus,  commonly  smooth,  but  varying 
pubescent,  white  villous  at  the  base.  Gills  very  broad  behind,  triangu- 
lar, decurrent,  very  distant,  edge  of  the  gills  straight. 

Cosmopolitan.  The  common  form  is  to  be  found  everywhere  from 
the  sea  level  to  4,000  feet,  Stevenson. 

Spores  3x4^  W.G.S.;  10x4^  W.  P  ;  green  variety  iox6/x,  W.  P.; 
broadly  elliptical,  8-iox5-6/x  Peck. 

O.  umbellifera  is  known  the  world  over.  It  is  very  variable  in  size 
and  color.  With  us  it  is  seldom  over  K  in.  broad.  Stem  K-i  line 
thick.  It  grows  on  decaying  wood  and  ground  full  of  decaying  ma- 
terial. There  are  several  varieties.  All  are  edible,  but  not  worth  de- 
scribing. This  description  is  given  that  the  student  may  recognize  one 
of  our  common  plants,  and  eat  it,  if  very  hungry. 

MYCENA'RII. 

0.  campanel'la  Batsch. — campana,  a  bell.  PileilS  thin,  rather  tough, 
hemispherical  or  convex,  glabrous,  umbilicate,  hygrophanous,  rusty 
yellow-color  and  striatulate  when  moist,  paler  when  dry.  Gills  moder- 
ately close,  arcuate,  decurrent,  yellowish,  the  interspaces  venose.  Stem 
firm,  rigid,  hollow,  brown,  often  paler  at  the  top,  tawny-strigose  at  the 
base.  Spores  elliptical,  6-7x3-4^. 

Pileus  4-8  lines  broad.      Stem  about  I  in.  long,  scarcely  i  line  thick. 

Much  decayed  wood  of  coniferous  trees.  Very  common.  May  to 
November.  Peck,  45th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  6-8x3-4^  C.B.P.;  7x3^  W.P.;  6-9x3-4^  B. 

The  quantity  alone,  in  which  this  small  species  can  be  found,  makes 
it  worth  mentioning  as  an  edible  species.  It  is  common  over  the  United 
States  where  coniferous  trees  abound.  Its  favorite  habitat  is  upon  the 
rotting  debris  of  these  trees.  Occasionally  it  grows  from  the  ground, 
but  only  from  that  which  is  heavily  charged  with  woody  material.  It 
is  social  in  troops,  or  affectionate  in  clusters,  or  maintains  a  single  ex- 
istence. 

It  is  edible,  of  good  substance  when  stewed,  tender  and  of  fair  flavor. 

134 


PLATE  XXXV. 


Photographed  by  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist. 

PLEUROTUS  OSTREATUS. 


Leucosporse 

PLEURO'TTJS. 

Gr. — a  side ;    Gr. — an  ear. 

Stem  excentric,  lateral  or  none.     Epipliytal  (very  rarely  growing  on  pieurotus. 
the  ground},  irregular,  fleshy  or  membranaceous.      Fries. 

The  excentric,  generally  lateral  stem,  absent  in  some  of  the  species, 
separates  this  from  other  genera  of  the  white-spored  series. 

Pileus  varying  from  fleshy  in  the  larger  to  membranaceous  in  the 
smaller  forms,  but  never  becoming  woody.  Veil  generally  wanting, 
when  present  its  remains  sometimes  appear  on  the  margin  of  the  pileus, 
or  as  an  evanescent  ring  on  the  stem.  Gills,  edge  acute,  generally  de- 
current,  in  some  species  with  a  well-marked  tooth,  rarely  simply  adnate. 
Stem  fleshy,  confluent  and  homogeneous  with  the  pileus. 

Wood,  dead  or  alive;   a  few  species  appear  on  the  ground. 

P.  ulmarius  and  others  of  the  larger  forms,  when  growing  in  an  up- 
right position,  may  have  the  stem  central  and  the  pileus  horizontal. 
The  stems  of  some  species  of  Clitocybe  and  Omphalia  if  growing  later- 
ally are  sometimes  excentric  and  oblique. 

This  genus  is  analogous  to  Claudopus,  pink-spored,  and  Crepidotus, 
brown-spored. 

Spores  white,  but  those  of  P.  sapidus  are  faintly  tinged  with  lilac, 
and  of  P.  ostreatus,  var.  euosmus,  with  purple. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 
EXCENTRICI.     Page  137. 

Pileus  entire,  laterally  extended,  excentric,  not  truly  lateral. 

*  Veil  fugacious,  fragments  adhering  to  stem  or  margin  of  pileus. 

*  Veil  none ;    gills  sinuate  or  obtusely  adnate. 
***  Veil  none,  gills  very  decurrent,  stem  distinct,  almost  vertical. 

*  Veil  none,  gills  very  decurrent,  stem  proper  absent,  pileus  lat- 
eraj,  extended  behind  into  a  short,  stem-like  oblique  base. 

DIMIDIATI.     Page  144. 

Pileus  not  at  first  resupinate,  lateral,  prolonged  without  a  definite 
margin  behind,  into  a  very  short  lateral,  stem-like  base. 

US 


Agaricaceae 

RESUPINATI.     Page  146. 
Pileus  resupinate  from  the  first,  then  reflexed. 

Pieurotus.  If  any  odium  attaches  to  the  word  toadstool,  it  should  be  forgotten 
and  forever  banished  in  presence  of  this  cleanly,  neat,  handsome  genus, 
choice  in  its  growing  places  from  lichen-covered  stumps,  or  bark-clad 
boles,  or  highly  perched  limbs,  or  the  scented  surfaces  of  decaying 
wood.  Several  of  its  species  perfume  themselves  throughout  with  pleas- 
ant spicy  odors.  Many  are  most  accommodating  in  their  constant 
coming. 

Mr.  H.  I.  Miller,  superintendent  Terre  Haute  and  Indianapolis  Rail- 
road, writes:  "Most  of  the  mushroom  books  give  greatest  space  to  the 
A.  campester.  For  some  parts  of  the  country  this  may  be  desirable, 
but  for  Indiana  and  Ohio,  considering  the  food  value,  the  P.  ostreatus 
is  the  best  fungus  we  have  in  these  states,  from  the  fact  that  anybody 
wanting  a  mess  can  nearly  always  obtain  a  basketful  of  this  variety, 
whereas  the  others  depend  upon  a  good  many  weather  conditions. 
Having  located  a  few  logs  and  stumps  in  the  spring,  where  the  P.  ostre- 
atus grows,  these  same  stumps  and  logs  can  be  used  all  season.  The 
crops  are  successive,  and  while  some  of  the  spots  seem  to  be  barren  for 
a  few  days  at  a  time,  the  others  will  be  bearing.  It  does  not  make 
much  difference  what  the  kind  of  log  or  stump,  whether  it  be  beech, 
oak  or  elm,  or  what  the  species  of  tree.  I  think  I  have  found  them  on 
all  our  forest  trees,  and  it  is  not  necessary  for  the  tree  to  be  dead.  If 
there  is  a  decaying  portion,  the  spores  seem  to  be  carried  by  the  little 
black  beetle  that  infests  the  ostreatus,  from  one  place  to  another,  and 
wherever  a  small  spot  of  dead  wood  is  found  we  are  likely  to  find  the  P. 
ostreatus.  This  being  the  only  edible  mushroom  that  we  can  find  in 
large  quantities  all  through  the  season  in  this  neck  of  the  woods,  it 
seems  to  me  that  a  general  knowledge  of  it  will  serve  the  economic  pur- 
pose more  than  any  other  fungi." 

The  presence  of  the  P.  ostreatus  and  its  esculent  companions  is  noted 
from  our  northern  boundary  to  the  gulf.  Poplar,  maple,  birch,  hick- 
ory, ash,  apple,  laburnum  and  oak  trees  are  its  favored  residences. 
Deer  feed  upon  it,  and  kine  are  attracted  by  its  scent  even  when  deep 
under  snow.  When  properly  selected  and  slowly  cooked,  the  Pleuroti 
are  toothsome. 

From  the  fact  that  the  spores  of  this  fleshy  and  valuable  genus  find 

136 


Leucosporae 

fostering  lodgment  in  many  trees  when  in  decay,  it  is  more  than  prob-  Pieurotus. 
able  that  the  several  species  can  be  propagated  by  planting  their  spores 
upon  such  decaying  woods,  or  by  transplanting  the  mycelium. 

Growths  of  P.  ostreatus,  P.  sapidus,  P.  salignus,  and  probably  other 
species  of  Pieurotus,  can  be  forced,  by  watering  the  spots  upon  which 
they  are  known  to  grow.  Dr.  Kalchbrenner  mentions  that  the  P. 
sapidus  is  in  this  way  cultivated  in  Hungary.  Acting  upon  this  men- 
tion the  writer  had  good  success  with  P.  ostreatus.  Experiments  in 
this  direction  are  likely  to  be  interesting  and  rewarding. 

No  species  is  suspected  of  being  noxious. 

An  analysis  of  P.  ostreatus  is  given  by  Lafayette  B.  Mendel,  Shef- 
field Laboratory  of  Physiological  Chemistry,  Yale  University,  as  follows : 

Water 73-7«% 

Total  solids 26.30 

The  dry  substance  contained: 

Total  nitrogen 2.40 

Extractive  nitrogen 1.27 

Protein  nitrogen 1.13 

Ether  extract 1.6 

Crude   fiber 7.5 

Ash 6.1 

Material  soluble  in  85$,  alcohol 31.5 

American  Journal  of  Physiology,  Vol.  I,  No.  n,  March  I,  1898. 

I. — EXCEN'TRICI  . 
*  Veil  fugacious,  etc. 

P.  dry'inus  Pers.  Gr. — oak.  PileilS  2  in.  broad,  whitish,  variegated 
with  spot-like  scales  which  become  dingy-brown,  lateral,  oblique,  rather 
plane.  Flesh  thick.  Stem  very  curt  and  obese,  commonly  i  in.  long^ 
and  thick,  somewhat  lateral,  somewhat  woody,  squamulose,  white,  with 
a  short,  blunt  root.  Veil  scarcely  conspicuous  on  the  stem,  but 
appendiculate  round  the  margin  of  the  pileus  when  young.  Gills  not 
very  decurrent,  somewhat  simple,  not  anastomosing  behind,  narrow, 
white,  becoming  yellow  when  old. 

On  trunks,  oak,  ash,  willow,  etc.     Stevenson. 

Spores  iox4ft  Massee. 

Edible.      Cordier,  Cooke. 

When  young  the  caps  are  tender;  of  the  consistency,  when  cooked,  of 

137 


Agaricaceee 

Pieurotus.  Polyporus  sulphureus.  In  taste  and  smell  the  species  varies  from  other 
Pleuroti,  in  having  a  distinct  musk-like  flavor.  This  is  agreeable, 
reminding  one  of  the  common  mushroom — A.  campester. 

**  Veil  none,  gills  sinuate,  etc. 

P.  ulma'rius  Bull. — ulmus,  an  elm.  Pileus  3-5  in.  and  more  broad, 
becoming  pale-livid,  often  marbled  with  round  spots,  fleshy,  compact, 
horizontal,  moderately  regular  although  more  or  less  excentric,  convex 
then  plane,  disk-shaped,  even,  smooth.  Flesh  white,  tough.  Stem 
2-3  in.  long,  i  in.  thick,  solid,  firm,  elastic,  somewhat  excentric,  curved- 
ascending,  thickened  and  tomentose  at  the  base,  not  rarely  villous 
throughout,  white.  Gills  horizontal,  emarginate  or  rounded  behind, 
slightly  adnexed,  broad  (broader  in  the  middle),  somewhat  crowded, 
whitish. 

The  pileus  is  sometimes  cracked  in  a  tessellated  manner.      Stevenson. 

Spores  nearly  globose,  5/*  long  Morgan;  5-6. 5/*  broad  Peck;  6/u. 
W.G.S. 

Var.  aceri'cola — acer,  maple;  colo,  to  inhabit.  Plant  smaller,  cespi- 
tose. 

Trunks  and  roots  of  maple  trees.   Adirondack  mountains.   September. 

Var.  populi 'cola — populus,  poplar;  colo,  to  inhabit.  Plant  subcespi- 
tose,  stem  wholly  tomentose.  West  Albany.  Peck,  Monograph,  N.  Y. 
Species  of  Pieurotus,  Rep.  39. 

The  gills  are  sometimes  torn  across  like  those  of  Lentinus. 

The  historic  elms  of  Boston  Common  have  borne  copious  crops  of 
this  well-known  and  easily  distinguished  species  from  time  immemorial. 
Every  fall,  about  the  first  of  September,  if  the  season  is  favorable,  later 
if  not,  copious  crops  appear  decorating  the  trunks,  and  branches,  some- 
times at  a  height  of  thirty  or  forty  feet.  Growth  takes  place  where 
branches  have  broken  off  or  the  trees  have  been  wounded  from  other 
causes.  They  occur  very  generally  on  elms  in  the  outlying  districts  of 
the  city,  but  are  rare  in  the  country,  seeming  to  be  distinctly  urban  in 
their  tastes.  No  damage  is  apparent  from  their  growth. 

Immediately  in  the  rear  of  Independence  Hall,  Philadelphia,  a  fine 
cluster  appears  with  equal  autumnal  regularity. 

Though  the  elm  tree  is  the  chosen  habitat  of  this  fungus,  it  is  little 
less  select  in  its  choice  than  other  members  of  its  genus. 

138 


Leucosporae 

When  young  and  small  P.  ulmarius  is  tender  and  of  acceptable  flavor.  Pieurotus. 
The  stems  and  centers  of  older  specimens  should  be  cut  away,  and  the 
tender  parts  of  the  caps,  only,  used. 

P.  tessula'tus  Bull. — tessela,  a  small  cube  for  pavement.  PileilS 
becoming  pale-tawny ,  horizontal,  compactly  fleshy,  convex  then  plane, 
and  in  a  form  which  is  somewhat  lateral  depressed  behind,  irregular, 
even,  smooth,  variegated  with  round  and  hexagonal  paler  spots.  Flesh 
thick,  white.  Stem  short,  I  in.  or  little  more  long,  solid,  compact, 
equal  or  attenuated  at  the  base,  very  excentric,  curved-ascending,  even, 
smooth,  white.  Grills  sinuate  behind,  uncinato-adnate,  thin,  crowded, 
white  or  becoming  yellow. 

Solitary;  according  to  some  cespitose.  The  pileus  is  not  cracked  in 
a  tessellated  manner,  as  one  might  easily  imagine  from  the  name,  but 
variegated  with  spots.  Smaller  than  A.  ulmarius  (to  which  it  is  too 
closely  allied),  but  almost  more  compact,  with  a  smell  of  new  meal. 

On  trunks.      Stevenson. 

North  Carolina,  Scliweinitz.      Edible.      Curtis.     Edible.      Cordier. 

On  specimens  growing  cespitose  and  singly,  found  at  Haddonfield, 
N.  J.  September,  1895,  on  trunk  of  apple  tree,  and  at  Eagle's  Mere, 
Pa.,  singly  on  sugar  maple,  August,  1898,  the  margin  of  caps  were 
beautifully  marked,  but  not  cracked. 

In  quality  it  is  better  than  P.  ulmarius. 

P.  Sllbpalma'tllS  Fr. — sub  and  palma,  a  palm.  Pileus  3-5  in.  across. 
Flesh  thick,  soft,  variegated;  convex  then  more  or  less  flattened,  ir- 
regularly circular,  obtuse,  wrinkled,  smooth,  with  a  gelatinous  cuticle, 
rufescent.  Stem  excentric  or  almost  lateral,  but  the  pileus  is  always 
marginate  behind,  fibrillose,  short,  equal,  flesh  fibrous,  soft.  Gills  ad- 
nate,  3-4  lines  broad,  crowded,  joined  behind,  dingy.  Massee. 

On  old  trunks,  squared  timber,  etc. 

Very  remarkable  for  having  the  flesh  variegated  as  in  Fistulina  he- 
patica.  Pileus,  especially  when  young,  covered  with  a  viscid  pellicle.  Fr. 

Spores  minutely  echinulate,  nearly  globose,  5.6x71".  Morgan. 

Ohio,  Morgan;  Wisconsin,  Bundy. 

I  frequently  found  this  species  in  North  Carolina,  growing  from  oak 
ties  and  standing  oak  timber.  I  did  not  notice  distillation  of  rufescent 
drops  from  the  cap.  The  soft  flesh  had  good  flavor.  The  gelatinous 

139 


Agaricaceee 

Pieurotus.  cuticle  imparts  its  character  to  the  dish.  Mixed  with  Lentinus  lepideus, 
a  much  tougher  plant,  which  grows  in  great  abundance  in  the  same  lo- 
calities, it  makes  toothsome  food. 

P.  lignati'lis  Fr. — lignum,  wood.      Dingy   whitish.     Pileus  1-4  in. 

broad,  rarely  central,  commonly  more  or  less  excentric,  occasionally 
wholly  lateral,  often  kidney-shaped,  fleshy,  thin,  but  compact  and 
tough,  fissile,  convex  then  plane,  obtuse  and  often  umbilicate,  flocculoso- 
pruinate,  at  length  denuded  with  rain,  repand,  margin  at  first  involute 
then  expanded,  undulato-lobed  when  luxuriant.  Stem  sometimes  2-3 
in.,  sometimes  3-4  lines  long  (even  obliterated),  stuffed  then  hollow, 
always  thin,  unequal,  curved,  curved  or  flexuous,  tough  and  flexile, 
whitish,  everywhere  pruinato-villous,  rooting  and  somewhat  tomentose 
at  the  base.  Gills  adnate,  very  crowded  and  narrow,  unequal,  diverg- 
ent in  the  lobes,  shining  white.  Fries. 

Exceedingly  variable,  wholly  inconstant  in  form ;  substance  thin  and 
pliant;  commonly  densely  cespitose,  but  also  single.  Odor  strong  of 
new  meal. 

On  wood,  beech,  etc.     Stevenson. 

Parasitic  on  a  rotten  plant  of  Polyporus  annosus  on  elm.      W.G.S. 

White  and  grayish-white,  margin  faintly  striate;  white-spotted,  odor 
distinctly  farinaceous.  C.M. 

Spores  3-4^  long,  Morgan,  Cooke,  W.G.S./  4-5/x  K. 

Var.  abscon'dens  Pk. — obscure.     New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  31,  39. 

On  trunks,  scattered,  sometimes  loosely  clustered.  Griffins,  Delaware 
county,  N.  Y.  September.  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  31,  39. 

Kingsessing,  near  Philadelphia;   Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     Mcllvaine. 

This  is  a  good  species  in  every  way.  I  have  not  found  it  in  extended 
quantity,  but  it  is  probable  that  it  will  be  found  in  plenty  when  closer 
observed  and  better  known. 

P.  circina'tus  Fr. — to  make  round.  Wholly  white,  not  hygrophanous. 
Pileus  about  3  in.  broad,  orbicular,  horizontal,  fleshy,  tough,  convex 
then  plano-disk-shaped,  obtuse,  even,  but  covered  over  with  a  shining 
whitish  slightly  silky  luster.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick, 
stuffed,  elastic,  equal,  central  or  slightly  excentric,  commonly  straight, 
smooth,  bluntly  rooted  at  the  base.  Gills  adnate,  slightly  decurrent, 
crowded,  broad  (as  much  as  3  lines),  white.  Fries. 

140 


Leucosporee 


An  exceedingly  distinct  species.      Regular,  solitary,  with  a  weak,  Pieurotus. 
pleasant,  not  mealy  odor.     The  pileus  is  a  little  thicker  than  that  of 
A.  lignatilis,  but  less  compact;   the  gills  are  twice  as  broad.     As  A. 
lignatilis  is  changeable,  this  is  always  constant  in  form. 

On  rotting  birch  stump.      Stevenson. 

California,  H.  and  M . 

Found  at  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  August,  1898,  on  birch  trees.  Generally 
solitary;  sometimes  six  or  eight  on  one  tree,  beautifully  shining  white, 
at  a  distance  resembling  young  Polyporus  betulinus.  Large  quantities 
of  it  grow  in  the  extensive  birch  forests  at  Eagle's  Mere,  yielding  a 
ready  food  supply.  Its  flavor  is  pleasant,  and  texture,  when  cooked, 
quite  tender. 

P.  pubes'cens  Pk. — pubes,  down  or  soft  hair.  PileilS  fleshy,  con- 
vex, suborbicular,  pubescent,  yellowish.  Grills  broad,  subdistant, 
rounded  behind,  sinuate,  pallid  tinged  with  red.  Stem  short,  firm, 
curved,  eccentric,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  globose,  8ft  broad. 

PileilS  about  2  in.  broad.      Stem  scarcely  i  in.  long. 

Trunks  of  trees.  Lyndonville.  C.  E.  Fairman.  Peck3  44th  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  on  oak  trunks.     Mcllvaine. 

High,  agreeable  flavor;    texture  about  as  in  P.  ostreatus. 

*** Gills  deczirrent;  stem  distinct,  etc. 
P.  sa'pidllS  Kalchb. — savory.     Cespitose,  or  several  pilei  appearing 


to  spring  from  a  common  branched 
stem.  Pileus  1-3  in.  across.  Flesh 
thick,  excentric,  regular,  convex  or 
obtusely  gibbous  then  depressed, 
glabrous,  white  or  brownish.  Stem 
stout,  solid,  several  usually  spring- 
ing from  a  thickened  knob,  whitish, 
1-2  in.  long,  expanding  upward  into 
the  pileus.  Gills  decurrent,  rather 
distant,  narrow,  whitish.  Spores  el- 
liptical, 10-1 1x4-5/4. 

On  elm  trunks. 

A  very  variable  species;  accord- 

141 


(Plate  XXXVI.) 


SECTION  OF  PLEUROTUS  SAPIDUS. 
One-half  natural  size. 


Agaricaceae 

pieurotus.  ing  to  Kalchbrenner,  the  spores  have  a  faint  tinge  of  lilac,  and  the  pileus 
is  white,  tawny,  brownish,  or  umber  on  the  same  trunk.  The  white 
form  only  has  been  met  with  in  this  country.  Massee. 

Spores  with  a  lilac  tinge,  oblong  or  a  little  curved  and  pointed, 
8.3x3.7^  Morgan;  oblong,  9-1 1 .5x4-5/4  Peck;  IO-1 1x4-5^  Massee. 

Not  observed  in  England  until  1887. 

Quite  common  throughout  the  United  States,  growing  upon  decaying 
wood,  whether  above  or  under  ground.  It  has  few  distinct  features. 
The  only  positive  one  distinguishing  it  from  P.  ostreatus  is  its  lilac- 
tinted  spores.  The  tint  is  faint  but  noticeable  upon  white  background. 
Excepting  for  purposes  of  the  student,  its  separation,  as  a  species,  from 
P.  ostreatus  is  not  necessary.  When  old  it  has  more  body  than  the 
latter,  but  is  equally  superior  as  a  food  fungus. 

Professor  Peck  remarks  of  it:  "A  stew  made  of  it  is  a  very  good 
substitute  for  an  oyster  stew." 

It  can  be  cultivated  by  watering  the  places  upon  which  it  is  known  to 
appear. 

P.  pome'ti  Fr. — pometum,  an  orchard.  PileilS  white,  fleshy,  soft, 
sub-flaccid,  irregular,  involute,  convex,  even,  smooth,  disk  depressed. 
Gills  decurrent,  crowded,  separate  behind.  Stem  2-3  in.  high,  3-4 
lines  thick,  excentric,  solid,  tough,  ascending,  rooting. 

On  trunks  of  pear  and  apple  trees. 

Especially  distinguished  by  the  rooting  stem. 

North  Carolina,  edible,  Curtis;  California,  H.  and  M. 

****  Gills  decurrent.     Stem  lateral,  etc. 

P.  OStrea'tus  Jacq. — ostrea,  an  oyster.  (Plate  XXXV,  p.  134, 
XXXVtf,  p.  142.)  Pileus  3-5  in.  broad,  when  young  almost  becom- 
ing black,  soon  becoming  pale,  brownish-ash  color,  passing  into  yellow 
when  old,  fleshy,  soft,  shell-shaped,  somewhat  dimidiate,  ascending, 
smooth,  moist,  even,  but  sometimes  with  the  cuticle  torn  into  squam- 
ules.  Stem  shortened  or  obliterated,  firm,  elastic,  ascending  obliquely, 
thickening  upward,  white,  strigoso-villous  at  the  base.  Gills  decurrent, 
anastomosing  behind,  somewhat  distant,  broad,  white,  sometimes  turn- 
ing light  yellow,  and  without  glandules. 

For  the  most  part  cespitose,  imbricated,  very  variable,  sometimes 

142 


-o 
r 
m 
c 

70 

O 

H 
C 
c/) 

O 

C/) 

H 
70 
m 
> 
H 
C 


Leucosporse 

almost    central.      The    pileus   is   at  first  convex   and   horizontal,   then  pieurotus. 
expanded  and  ascending.     Stevenson. 

Spores  10-12x4-5/4  Massee;  7.5-10x41",  Peck. 

General  over  the  United  States. 

Var.  glanduldsus  Ag.  g.  Bull. — With  the  habit  of  the  typical  form, 
but  larger.  Pileus  dark  brown,  becoming  pale.  Gills  white,  with  scat- 
tered small  wart-like  or  glandular  bodies. 

On  trunks.  A  very  constant  but  somewhat  rare  variety ;  easily  known 
by  the  dark-brown  pileus.  The  gland-like  bodies  on  the  gills  are  due 
to  the  outward  growth  of  the  hyphae  of  the  trama  in  minute  patches 
here  and  there.  Massee. 

Var.  euosmus  Berk. — strong-smelling.  Strong  scented,  imbricate. 
Pileus  fleshy,  depressed,  shining,  silky  when  dry,  at  first  white  with  a 
tinge  of  blue,  then  brownish.  Stem  short  or  obsolete.  Gills  decurrent, 
ventricose,  dingy,  white.  Spores  12-14x5^,  pale  pinkish-lilac. 

On  elm  trunks.  Pilei  very  much  crowded,  2  in.  or  more  across, 
deeply  depressed,  unequal,  at  first  white,  invested  with  a  slight  blue 
varnish,  at  length  of  a  pale  brown.  Stems  distinct  above,  connate  be- 
low. Gills  rather  broad ;  running  down  to  the  bottom  of  the  free  por- 
tion of  the  stem.  Spores  oblong,  narrow,  oblique,  white,  tinged  with 
purple.  The  whole  plant  smells,  when  first  gathered,  strongly  of  tarra- 
gon. B.  and  Br. 

Found  at  Richmond,  Ind.,  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist.  On  hickory  stump  at 
Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  Mcllvaine;  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  T.  J.  Collins. 

This  esculent  fungus  closely  allied  to  P.  ostreatus,  and  differing  only 
in  having  lilac  spores,  has  been  followed  from  book  to  book  by  a  bad 
reputation,  probably  because  of  its  "rosy"  or  lilac  spores — all  fungi 
having  pink  spores  having  been,  until  recently,  ignorantly  branded  by 
authors  as  poisonous.  The  writer  has  eaten  meals  of  it  many  times,  as 
have  his  friends.  It  is  in  every  way  equal  to  P.  ostreatus. 

The  rare  qualities  of  this  species  are  stated  in  the  descriptive  heading 
of  the  genus.  Its  very  name  implies  excellence.  The  camel  is  grate- 
fully called  the  ship  of  the  desert ;  the  oyster  mushroom  is  the  shell- 
fish of  the  forest.  When  the  tender  parts  are  dipped  in  egg,  rolled  in 
bread  crumbs,  and  fried  as  an  oyster  they  are  not  excelled  by  any  vege- 
table, and  are  worthy  of  place  in  the  daintiest  menu. 

P.  salig'nus  Schwam. — salix,  willow.     Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  sooty 

143 


Agaricaceee 

Pieurotus.  ash-color  or  ochraceous,  fleshy,  compact,  spongy,  somewhat  dimidiate, 
horizontal,  at  first  pulvinate,  even,  at  length  depressed  behind  and  here 
and  there  strigose,  the  incurved  margin  entire.  Stem  always  short, 
firm,  more  or  less  tomentose.  Gills  horizontal,  hence  less  manifestly 
decurrent,  separate  behind,  but  branched  in  the  middle,  crowded,  dingy, 
often  eroded  at  the  edge,  not  glandular. 

Among  the  larger  and  firmer  species.  Solitary,  scarcely  ever  cespi- 
tose.  It  is  commonly  confounded  with  A.  ostreatus,  but  is  certainly  a 
different  species.  Although  the  stature  is  in  general  the  same,  it  is 
easily  distinguished  by  the  pileus  being  more  compact,  and  more  pul- 
verulent when  young,  then  depressed,  by  the  gills  being  thinner,  more 
crowded,  somewhat  branched,  but  not  anastomosing  behind,  and  dingy 
soot-color;  the  spores  also  are  dingy.  Stevenson. 

Spores  oblong  or  cylindrical-oblong,  8x4/4  W.G.S.;  8-10x3-4/1^. 

Dr.  Curtis  wrote  of  this:  "Indeed  I  have  found  several  persons  who 
class  this  among  the  most  palatable  species.  To  such  persons  a  dish 
of  fresh  mushrooms  need  seldom  be  wanting,  as  this  one  can  be  had 
every  month  of  the  year  in  this  latitude." 

In  New  Jersey,  in  the  vicinity  of  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  I  have  found  P. 
salignus  in  quantity.  It  has  been  sent  to  me  by  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist,  of 
Richmond,  Ind.,  who  writes,  "I  have  eaten  it  with  great  enjoyment." 

In  1 88 1  I  found  it  frequently  on  water  beeches  and  willows,  and  thor- 
oughly tested  its  edible  qualities.  R.  K.  Macadam,  Boston. 

When  young  or  fresh,  it  is  quite  equal  to  any  Pieurotus.  When  old, 
as  with  others  of  the  Pleuroti,  it  is  tough.  Nevertheless  their  margins 
are  always  edible  unless  decaying. 

II. — DIMIDIA'TI. 

P.  petaloi'des  Bull. — petal  V>f  a  flower.  PileilS  1-2  in.  long,  dingy- 
brown,  becoming  pale,  dimidiate,  fleshy,  but  in  no  wise  compact,  rather 
plane,  somewJiat  spatliulate,  continuous  with  the  stem  and  depressed  be- 
hind, hence  the  villous  down  of  the  stem  ascends  to  this  point  (the  disk) 
of  the  pileus,  otherwise  smooth,  even,  margin  at  first  involute  then  ex- 
panded. Stem  about  %  in.  long,  sometimes  however  very  short,  solid, 
firm,  compressed,  channeled  when  larger,  more  or  less  villous,  whitish. 
Gills  decurrent,  very  crowded,  very  narrow  (scarcely  beyond  2  mm. 
broad),  linear,  very  unequal,  white  then  ash-color. 

144 


Leucosporee 

Taste  bitter.     The  form  on  wood  is  somewhat  horizontal,  gregarious  Pieurotns. 
here  and  there  imbricated.     Stevenson. 

Spores  9-IOX4//,  Massee;  8x4/u,  W.G.S.;  minutely  globose,  3-41". 
Peck. 

Edible.     Cooke,  Cordier. 

P.  spatlmla'tus  Pers. — shaped  like  a  spathula.  PileuS  rather  thin, 
1-2  in.  broad,  ascending,  spathulate,  tapering  behind  into  the  stem, 
glabrous,  convex  or  depressed  on  the  disk  and  there  sometimes  pubes- 
cent, alutaceous  or  brownish  tinged  with  gray,  red  or  yellow.  Grills 
crowded,  linear,  decurrent,  whitish  or  yellowish.  Stem  compressed, 
sometimes  channeled  above,  grayish-tomentose.  Spores  elliptical,  7.6x 
4—5^  broad;  odor  and  taste  farinaceous. 

Ground.      Sandlake.     June.     Edible. 

It  grows  singly  or  in  tufts  and  is  an  inch  or  more  in  height.  The 
margin  is  thin  and  sometimes  striatulate  and  reflexed.  Toward  the 
base  the  flesh  is  thicker  than  the  breadth  of  the  gills.  The  cuticle  is 
tough'  and  separable.  The  flesh  is  said  by  Gillet  to  be  tender  and 
delicate.  Persoon  describes  the  disk  as  spongy-squamulose,  but  in  our 
specimens  it  is  merely  pubescent  or  tomentose.  Peck,  39th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Dot. 

Recorded  as  edible  by  Professor  Peck.  At  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  I 
found  many  specimens  agreeing  with  this  description.  They  grew  from 
decaying  wood  under  ground,  yet  had  the  appearance  of  growing  from 
the  earth.  It  is  probable  that  others  have  been  deceived.  In  quality 
I  found  this  to  be  one  of  the  best. 

P.  sero'tinus  Fr. — late.  PileuS  fleshy,  1-3  in.  broad,  compact, 
convex  or  nearly  plane,  viscid  when  young  and  moist,  dimidiate  kid- 
ney-shaped or  suborbicular,  solitary  or  cespitose  and  imbricated,  vari- 
ously colored,  dingy-yellow,  reddish-brown,  greenish-brown  or  olivace- 
ous, the  margin  at  first  involute.  Gills  close,  determinate,  whitish  or 
yellowish.  Stem  very  short,  lateral,  thick,  yellowish  beneath  and  min- 
utely tomentose  or  squamulose  with  blackish  points.  Spores  minute, 
elliptical,  5/x  long,  2.5/x.  broad. 

Dead  trunks  of   deciduous  trees.     Peck,  39th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  1887,  and  at  Mt.  Moriah,  near  Philadelphia,  from 
August  until  November,  1898.      Upon  these  findings  the  pileus  was 
tomentose  at  base,  as  was  the  short  stem. 
10  145 


Agaricacese 

pienrotns.  The  species  is  not  noticeably  viscid  after  its  youth.  The  viscidity 
can  be  detected  in  old  specimens  by  moistening  the  pileus.  Its  flavor 
is  not  marked,  nor  is  its  texture  as  pleasing  as  most  others  of  its  genus, 
but  being  a  late  species  it  satisfies  the  longing  of  the  mycophagist  for 
his  accustomed  food. 

P.  pulmona'rillS  Fr. — pulmo,  lung,  from  texture.  PileilS  2-3  in. 
broad,  ash-colored,  continuous  with  the  stem,  fleshy,  soft,  but  tough, 
flaccid,  obovate  or  kidney-shaped,  plane  or  reflexo-conchate  at  the  mar- 
gin, even,  smooth.  Flesh  thin,  soft,  white.  Stem  very  short,  solid, 
exactly  lateral,  horizontal  or  ascending,  round,  villous,  expanded  into 
the  pileus.  Gills  decurrent  but  ending  determinate ly ,  moderately  broad, 
distinct,  not  branched  or  anastomosing  at  the  base,  livid  or  ash-color. 

The  primary  form  is  solitary.  The  pileus  is  ashy-tan  when  dried.  It 
differs  from  A.  salignus  alike  in  the  definitely  lateral  stem  and  in  the 
thin  flaccid  pileus.  Fries. 

Not  previously  reported. 

Found  by  Miss  Madeleine  Le  Moyne,  Washington,  Pa.,  September, 
1898,  and  sent  to  writer.  Gills  3  lines  broad,  not  narrow  in  proportion 
to  flesh. 

Taste  and  smell  similar  to  P.  ostreatus.  Cooked  it  is  tender,  and 
more  succulent  than  P.  ostreatus. 

Ill . — RESUPINA'TI. 

P.  mastruca'tus  Tic.~mastnica,  a  sheepskin.  Pileus  up  to  2  in. 
long  and  I  in.  broad,  sessile,  at  first  resupinate  then  expanded  and 
horizontal,  often  lobed,  upper  stratum  of  pileus  gelatinous,  brown, 
bristling  with  squarrose  or  erect  squamules.  Flesh  thickish.  Gills 
radiating  from  the  point  of  attachment,  broad,  rather  distant,  grayish- 
white. 

On  old  trunks.  Imbricated.  Readily  distinguished  by  the  brown, 
squarrosely  scaly  pileus.  Massee. 

Spores  oblong,  oblique,  8x5ft  Morgan. 

In  June,  1886,  the  writer  found  this  species  in  oak  woods  near  Phila- 
delphia. It  grew  on  fallen  trunks  and  on  decaying  spots  of  living 
timber. 

It  is  edible,  and  of  good  flavor,  but  is  rough  in  the  mouth.  If  found 
in  quantity,  the  extract  of  it  would  make  a  delicate  soup. 

146 


PLATE  XXX VI I. 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Briscoe  —  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


FIG.  PAGE.  FIG. 

1.  HYGBOPHORUS  PBATENSIS  ( WHITE  VAR.),  152            5.    HYGROPHORUS  CANTHARELLUS, 

2.  HYGROPHORUS  PRATENSIS  (COLORED  VAR.),  152            6.    HYGROPHORUS  VIRGINEUS, 
3    HYGROPHORUS  PRATENSIS  (AFTER  RAIN),  152            7.    HYGROPHORUS  NIVEUS, 

4.    HYGROPHORUS  MINIATUS,  159 


PAGE. 
156 
153 
153 


Leucosporae 


HYGROPHORUS  PRATENSIS. 


HYGROPH'ORUS  Fr. 

Gr. — moist;    Gr. — to  bear. 

Pileus  regular  or  undulated  and  wavy,  often  viscid  or  moist.     Flesh  Hygrophorus. 
of  the  pileus  continuous  with  that  of  (Plate  XXXVIII.) 

the  stem  and  descending  as  a  trama 
into  the  gills.  Gills  adnate  or  ad- 
nexed,  more  or  less  decurrent,  waxy, 
often  thick  and  forked,  edge  always 
tliin  and  sharp,  often  branched. 

On  the  ground.  Many  species  are 
brightly  colored.  Spores  white. 

This  genus  differs  from  the  pre- 
ceding genera  in  the  manifest  trama, 
the  substance  of  which  is  similar  to 
that  of  the  pileus ;  from  Lactarius 

and  Russula  by  the  trama  not  being  vesicular,  but  somewhat  floccose 
with  granules  intermixed ;  from  Cantharellus,  its  nearest  ally,  by  the 
sharp  edge  of  the  gills.  The  Cortinarii,  Paxilli  and  Gomphidii  are  at 
once  distinguished  from  it  by  their  colored  spores  and  the  changing  color 
of  their  gills,  as  well  as  by  other  marks.  From  all  the  other  genera  of 
Agaricini  it  is  distinguished  by  a  mark  peculiar  to  itself,  viz.,  by  the 
hymeneal  stratum  of  the  gills  changing  into  a  waxy  mass,  which  is  at 
length  removable  from  the  trama.  This  altogether  singular  character  is 
specially  remarkable  in  H.  caprinus,  coccineus,  murinaceus,  etc.  Hence 
the  gills  seem  full  of  watery  juice,  but  they  do  not  become  milky  like 
those  of  the  Lactarii.  Fries. 

From  the  description  by  Fries,  the  author  of  the  genus,  it  is  manifest 
that  one  has  to  wait  the  ripening  of  the  fungus  before  the  peculiar  char- 
acteristic mark  of  the  genus,  i.  e. — gills  turning  into  a  waxy  mass, 
easily  removable  from  the  cap — can  be  observed.  Many  of  the  species 
are  difficult  to  determine  when  fresh.  Nevertheless,  there  is  an  inde- 
scribable, watery,  waxy,  translucent  appearance  about  the  gills  which 
catches  the  eye  of  the  expert,  and  is  soon  learned  by  the  novice.  The 
white  spores  readily  separate  the  genus  from  kindred  shapes  in  the  col- 
ored-spored  genera. 

So  far  as  tested  none  of  the  species  is  poisonous.      One  English  spe- 


147 


Agaricaceae 

Hygrophoms.  cies  is  fetid.      It  is  probable  that  they  are  all  edible,  varying  in  quality 
only.     Fries  well,  and  is  superior  in  croquettes  and  patties. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

LIMACIUM  {Umax,  a  slug).     Page  148. 

Universal  veil  viscid,  with  occasionally  a  floccose  partial  one,  which 
is  annular  or  marginal. 

*  White  or  becoming  yellowish. 
**  Reddish. 

**  Tawny  or  yellow. 
****  Olivaceous-umber. 
*****  Dingy  cinereous  or  livid. 

None  known  to  be  edible. 

CAMAROPHYLLUS  (Gr. — a  vault;  a  leaf).     Page  152. 
(From  the  arched  shape  of  the  gills.) 

Veil  none.  Stem  even,  smooth  or  fibrillose,  not  rough  with  points. 
Pileus  firm,  opaque,  moist  after  rain,  not  viscid.  Gills  distant,  arcuate. 

*  Gills  deeply  and  at  length  obconically  decurrent. 
**  Gills  ventricose,  sinuately  arcuate  or  plano-adnate. 

HYGROCYBE  (Gr. — moist;    Gr. — the  head).     Page  155. 

Veil  none.  Whole  fungus  thin,  watery,  succulent,  fragile.  Pileus  when 
moist  viscid,  shining  when  dry,  rarely  floccoso-scaly.  Stem  hollow,  soft, 
without  dots.  Gills  soft.  Most  of  the  species  are  brightly  colored  and 
shining.  This  tribe  is  the  type  of  the  genus. 

*  Gills  decurrent. 

**  Gills  adnexed,  somewhat  separating. 

LIMA'CIUM. 
*  White  or  yellowish-white. 

H.  chry'sodon  Fr.  Gr. — gold;  a  tooth.  From  tooth-like  squamules. 
Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  white,  shining  when  dry,  but  commonly  yellowish 
with  minute  adpressed  squamules  at  the  disk,  light  yz\\<yw-/locculose  at 
the  involute  margin,  fleshy,  convex  then  plane,  obtuse,  viscid.  Flesh 

148 


Leucosporse 

white,  sometimes  reddish.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  about  >2  in.  thick,  Hygrophoms. 
stuffed,  soft,  somewhat  equal  (sometimes,  however,  irregularly  shaped 
or  thickened  at  the  base),  white,  with  minute  light  yellow  sqttamules, 
which  are  more  crowded  and  arranged  in  the  form  of  a  ring  toward  the 
apex.  Gills  decurrent,  distant,  3  lines  broad,  thin,  white,  somewhat 
yellowish  at  the  edge,  sometimes  crisped. 

Odor  not  unpleasant.  There  is  a  manifest  veil,  not  woven  into  a 
continuous  ring,  but  collected  in  the  form  of  floccose  squamtiles  at  the 
apex  of  the  stem  and  the  margin  of  the  pileus.  Var.  leucodon  with 
white  squamules.  Fries. 

In  woods. 

The  lamellae  are  said  to  be  crisped,  and  when  young,  to  have  the 
edge  yellow-floccose ;  but  I  have  seen  no  such  specimens.  Peck,  23d 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  8x4/1,  Cooke. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.     Mcllvaine. 

A  pleasant,  excellent  species,  whose  rarity  is  regrettable. 

H.  ebur'neus  Bull.  Fr. — ebur,  ivory.  Wholly  shining  white.  Pileus 
fleshy,  sometimes  thin,  sometimes  somewhat  compact,  convexo-plane, 
somewhat  repand,  even,  very  glutinous  in  rainy  weather,  margin  soon 
naked.  Stem  sometimes  short,  sometimes  elongated,  stuffed  then 
hollow,  unequal,  glutinous  like  the  pileus,  rough  at  the  apex  with  dots 
in  the  form  of  squamules.  Gills  decurrent,  distant,  veined  at  the  base, 
3-4  lines  broad,  tense  and  straight,  quite  entire.  Fries. 

Odor  mild,  not  unpleasant.  Very  changeable.  The  veil  is  absent, 
unless  the  very  plentiful  gluten  which  envelops  the  stem  be  regarded 
as  a  universal  veil;  margin  of  the  young  pileus  involute,  only  at  the  first 
pubescent,  soon  naked.  The  stem  is  soft  internally,  at  length  hollow, 
attenuated  toward  the  base. 

In  woods  and  pastures.    Frequent.    September  to  October.   Stevenson. 

The  whole  plant  is  pure  white  when  fresh,  but  in  drying  the  gills 
assume  a  cinnamon-brown  hue.  Peck,  Rep.  26. 

Spores  6x5/A  Cooke;  4x5/01  W.G.S.;  5-6/x,  K.;  6x4/4  C.B.P. 

A  common  and  wide-spread  species  frequenting  woods  and  pastures. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

The  author  ate  it  in  West  Virginia,  in  1882;   at  Devon,  Pa.,  1887; 

149 


Agaricaceee 

Hygrophorus.  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  1890.      It  is  well  flavored  but  in  texture  is  not  of 
first  quality. 

H.  pena'rius  Fr. — penus,  food.  Pileus  tan-color,  opaqiie,  fleshy, 
especially  when  young,  at  first  umbonate,  then  very  obtuse,  hemis- 
pherical then  flattened,  even,  smooth,  commonly  dry,  margin  at  first 
involute,  exceeding  the  gills,  undulated  when  flattened.  Flesh  thick, 
hard,  whitish,  unchangeable.  Stem  curt,  I  }'*  in.  or  more  long,  about 
y%  in.  thick  at  the  apex,  solid,  compact,  hard,  attenuated  at  the  base 
into  a  spindlc-sliaped  root,  ventricose  to  the  neck,  again  attenuated 
upward  or  wholly  fusiform-attenuated,  pale-white,  smeared  with  tena- 
cious, easily  dried  slime,  warty.  Flesh  firm,  but  externally  more  rigid, 
cuticle  somewhat  fragile.  Veil  not  conspicuous.  Gills adnato-decurrent, 
acute  behind,  distant,  thick,  3-4  lines  broad,  veined,  tan  inclining  to 
pale.  Fries. 

Odor  pleasant,  taste  sweet.    The  fusiform  root  is  as  long  as  the  stem. 

In  mixed  woods.      Stevenson. 

Spores  7-8x4-5/A. 

Edible.      Cooke. 

Large  specimens  occurred  in  mixed  woods,  in  November,  1898,  at 
Mt.  Gretna.  The  caps  varied  from  I  >£-5  in.  across.  The  color  was 
white,  tinged  with  yellow,  much  lighter  than  described.  The  caps  look 
coarse  and  the  stems  are  not  inviting ;  but  the  caps  have  a  pleasant  odor. 
When  stewed  for  twenty  minutes  they  are  meaty  and  tasty. 

**  Reddish. 

H.  erubes'cens  Fr. — erubesco,  to  become  red.  Pileus  2-4  in.  and  more 
broad,  white  becoming  everywhere  red,  fleshy,  gibbous  then  convexo- 
plane,  viscid,  adpressedly  dotted  with  sqnamules  or  becoming  smooth, 
sometimes  wholly  compact,  sometimes  thin  towards  the  margin  which 
is  at  the  first  naked.  Flesh  firm,  white.  Stem  sometimes  short,  robust, 
2  in.  long,  i  in.  thick  and  attenuated  upward,  sometimes  elongated,  4 
in.  long,  equal  or  attenuated  at  the  base,  solid,  flexuous,  with  red  fibrils, 
dotted  with  red  upward.  Gills  decurrent,  distant,  soft,  white,  with  red 
spots.  Fries. 

Veil  none.     The  ground  color  is  white,  as  it  is  also  internally,  but  it 

ISO 


Leucosporae 

everywhere  becomes  red  and  the  pileus  often  rosy  blood-color.      Hand-  Hygrophoms. 
some,  growing  in  troops,  commonly  forming  large  lax  circles. 

In  pine  woods.      Stevenson. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  very  obtuse  at  both  ends,  8-10x4-5^1  K.;  8x4/01 
Cooke. 

Edible.      Cooke. 

***  Tawny  or  yellow. 

H.  ni'tidus  B.  and  Rav. — shining.  Pileus  thin,  fleshy,  convex, 
broadly  umbilicate,  smooth,  shining,  viscid,  pale  yellow  with  the  margin 
striatulate  when  moist,  nearly  white  when  dry.  Gills  arcuate,  decurrent, 
yellow.  Stem  slender,  brittle,  smooth,  viscid,  hollow,  yellow.  Flesh 
yellow. 

Height  2-4  in.,  breadth  of  Pileus  8-12  lines.    Stem  1-2  lines  thick. 

Swamps.      Sandlake.     August. 

The  cavity  of  the  stem  is  very  small.    Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Found  in  many  states  and  places,  usually  on  moist  ground  beside 
streams,  or  spring  heads.  It  sometimes  parades  itself  in  irregular  pro- 
cessions, at  others  in  sparse  patches.  It  is  delicate  in  flavor,  and  tender 
cooked. 

****  Olivaceous-umber. 

H.  limaci'nus  Fr. — Umax,  a  slug.  Pileus  i/£—  2/£  in.  broad,  disk 
^lmber  then  sooty,  paler  round  the  margin,  fleshy,  convex  then  flattened, 
obtuse,  smooth,  viscid.  Flesh  rather  firm,  white.  Stem  2-3  in.  long, 
%  in.  thick,  solid,  firm,  ventricose,  sticky,  flocculose,  fibrilloso-striate, 
roughened  with  squamules  at  the  apex.  Gills  adnate,  then  decurrent, 
somewhat  distant,  thin,  white  inclining  to  ash-color.  Fries. 

Veil  entirely  viscous,  not  floccose. 

In  woods  among  damp  leaves.      Stevenson. 

Spores  I2X4/A  Cooke. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  34.     Thin  woods  and  open  places. 

Reported  edible  Bulletin  No.  5,  1897,  Boston  Mycological  Club. 

H.  hypotll'ejus  Fr.  Gr. — under;  Gr. — sulphur  (under  gluten). 
Pileus  1-2  in.  broad,  at  first  smeared  with  olivaceous  gluten,  ash-col- 
ored, when  the  gluten  disappears,  becoming  pale  and  yellowish,  orange 


Agaricacesa 

Hygrophorus.  or  rarely  (when  rotting)  rufescent,  fleshy,  thin,  convex  then  depressed, 
obtuse,  even,  somewhat  streaked.  Flesh  thin,  white  then  becoming 
light  yellow.  Stem  2-4  in.  long,  2-3  lines  and  more  thick,  stuffed, 
equal,  even,  viscous,  but  rarely  spotted  with  the  veil,  at  length  hollow. 
Partial  veil  floccose,  at  the  first  cortinate  and  annular,  soon  fugacious. 
Gills  decurrent,  distant,  distinct,  at  first  pallid  (even  whitish)  soon  yel- 
low, sometimes  flesh-color.  Fries. 

Very  protean,  changeable  in  color  and  variable  in  size.  Stem  not 
scabrous.  There  is  no  trace  of  the  veil  when  the  plant  is  full  grown. 
Appearing  after  the  first  cold  autumn  nights,  and  lasting  even  till  snow. 

In  pine  woods.      Frequent.      Stevenson. 

Spores  iox6ju,  Cooke;  I2X4/U.  W.G.S. 

Hollis  Webster,  in  Bulletin  No.  5,  1897,  Boston  Mycological  Club, 
writes:  "H.  hypothejus  Fr.,  when  dried,  is  crisp  and  nutty,  and  very 
good  to  carry  in  the  pocket  for  occasional  nibble." 

II. — CAMAROPHYL'LUS. 
*  Gills  deeply  decurrent,  etc. 

H.  praten'sis  Fr. — pratum,  a  meadow.  (Plate  XXXVII,  figs.  I,  2, 
3,  p.  146.  Plate  XXXVIII,  p.  147.)  Pileus  1-2  in.  and  more 
broad,  somewhat  pale  yellowish,  compactly  fleshy  especially  at  the  disk, 
thin  toward  the  margin,  convex  then  flattened,  almost  top-sJiaped  from 
the  stem  being  thickened  upward,  even,  smooth,  moist  (but  not  viscous) 
in  rainy  weather,  when  dry  often  rimosely  incised,  here  and  there  split 
regularly  round.  Flesh  firm,  white.  Stem  \%—2  in.  long,  %  in.  and 
more  thick,  stuffed,  internally  spongy,  externally  polished-evened  and 
firmer,  attenuated  downward,  even,  smooth,  naked.  Gills  remarkably 
decurrent,  at  first  arcuate,  then  extended  in  the  form  of  an  inverted  cone, 
very  distant,  thick,  firm,  brittle,  connected  by  veins  at  the  base,  very 
broad  in  the  middle,  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus.  Fries. 

Very  protean.  Veil  none.  The  flesh  of  the  pileus  is  formed  as  it 
were  of  the  stem  dilated  upward.  The  typical  form  resembles  the 
Cantharelli.  Everywhere  becoming  light  yellow-tawny,  but  varying  with 
the  stem  and  gills  pale-white. 

In  pastures.     Common.     Stevenson. 

Spores  6x4/i  Cooke;  6- 10x4-6/0.  K. 

152 


Leucosporae 

Common  over  the  United  States.     West  Virginia,  1881,  North  Caro-  Hygrophoms. 
lina,  1890,   Pennsylvania,    1887,  Mt.  Gretna,  1897-1898.     Mcllvaine. 

Gregarious,  and  often  in  tufts,  sometimes  in  partial  rings. 

An  exceedingly  variable  species.  White,  buff,  smoky,  pinkish  colors 
are  common.  The  cap  shapes  are  also  diverse.  The  margins  of  some 
are  incurved;  of  others  repand.  The  weather  seems  to  have  much  to 
do  with  their  shapes. 

M.  C.  Cooke  says:  "  It  requires  careful  cooking,  as  it  is  liable  to  be 
condemned  as  tough,  unless  treated  slowly,  but  it  is  a  great  favorite 
abroad."  He  calls  them  "Buff  Caps." 

All  fungi  are  the  better  for  slow  cooking.  The  H.  pratensis  in  all  its 
forms  is  excellent,  but  particularly  so  in  croquettes  and  pates. 

H.  virgin'eus  Fr. — virgo,  a  virgin.  (Plate  XXXVII,  fig.  6,  p.  146. ) 
Wholly  white.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex  then  plane,  obtuse,  moist,  at  length 
depressed,  cracked  into  patches,  floccose  when  dry.  Stem  curt,  stuffed, 
firm,  attenuated  at  the  base,  externally  becoming  even  and  naked.  Gills 
decurrent,  distant,  rather  thick.  Fries. 

Flesh  sometimes  equal,  sometimes  abruptly  thin.  Commonly  con- 
founded with  H.  niveus,  but  it  is  more  difficult  to  distinguish  it  from 
white  forms  of  H.  pratensis.  It  is  distinguished  chiefly  by  its  smaller 
stature,  by  the  color  being  constantly  white,  sometimes  becoming  pale, 
by  the  obtuse  pileus  being  scarcely  turbinate,  at  length  cracked  into  patches 
and  floccose  when  dry,  and  by  the  gills  being  thinner,  etc. 

In  pastures.      Common.      Stevenson. 

Spores  i2x5-6/u, 'Cooke . 

Tastes  like  M.  oreades.    M.J.B.    Delicious  broiled  or  stewed.    Cooke. 

"Mony  littles  make  muckle,"  says  the  Scotch  proverb.  It  applies 
well  to  the  brave  little  toadstool  looking  through  the  first  grass  of  lawns 
for  the  coming  of  spring,  and  coming  again  in  the  autumn,  defiant  of 
early  frosts.  Small  though  it  be,  its  numbers  soon  fill  the  basket. 

The  "Ivory  Caps"  are  plentiful,  and  extend  their  haunts  to  the 
woods,  where  thick  mold  or  grassy  places  abound. 

H.  ni'veus  Fr. — niveus,  snow-white.  (Plate  XXXVII,  fig.  7,  p.  146.) 
Wholly  white.  Pileus  scarcely  reaching  I  in.  broad,  somewhat  mem- 
branaceous,  and  without  a  more  compact  disk,  hence  truly  umbilicate, 

153 


Agaricaceee 

Hygrophoras.  bell-shaped  then  convex,  smooth,  striate  and  viscid  when  moist,  not 
cracked  when  dry.  Flesh  thin,  everywhere  equal,  white,  hygrophanous. 
Stem  2  in.  or  a  little  more  long,  1-2  lines  thick,  tubed,  equal,  even, 
smooth,  tense  and  straight.  Gills  decurrent,  distant,  thin,  scarcely 
connected  by  veins,  arcuate,  quite  entire. 

Thinner,  tougher,  and  later  than  H.  virgineus,  etc.  Being  hygroph- 
anous the  pileus  is  shining  white  when  dry.  Very  tender  forms  occur. 

In  pastures.      Stevenson. 

Spores  /X4/U,  Cooke. 

The  H.  niveus,  H.  virgineus,  "Ivory  Caps"  as  M.  C.  Cooke  calls 
them,  are  pretty  and  plentiful  in  some  sections.  In  the  West  Virginia 
mountains,  along  grass-grown  road-sides,  their  purity  and  exquisite 
perfume  attracted  me  in  1 88 1.  I  have  them  and  a  few  others  to  thank 
for  seducing  me  into  becoming  a  mycophagist.  I  think  of  them  affec- 
tionately. I  have  seldom  met  with  them  since.  They  are  found  on 
lawns  and  in  pastures  and  on  grassy  edges  of  woods,  early  in  spring  and 
late  in  autumn. 

H.  boreal'is  Pk. — northern.  PileilS  thin,  convex  or  expanded, 
smooth,  moist,  white,  sometimes  striatulate.  Gills  arcuate-decurrent, 
distant,  white.  Stem  smooth,  equal  or  tapering  downward,  stuffed, 
white. 

Plant  2  in.  high.     PileilS  8-12  lines  broad.      Stem  I  line  thick. 

Ground  in  woods.      Croghan  and  Copake.      September  and  October. 

The  species  is  related  to  H.  niveus  but  the  pileus  is  not  viscid.  Peck, 
26th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Found  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  October  20,  1898,  ground  in  mixed 
woods.  The  cap  is  white,  silky,  smooth,  not  viscid.  Stem  likewise. 

A  neat  species  pleasant  in  every  way. 

**  Gills  ventricose,  adnate,  etc. 

H.  dis'tans  Berk. — distant  (of  the  gills).  PileilS  about  2  in.  broad, 
white,  with  a  silky  luster,  here  and  there  stained  with  brown,  somewhat 
fleshy,  plane  or  depressed,  viscid.  Stem  white  above,  gray  below,  and 
attenuated,  not  spotted.  Gills  decurrent,  few,  very  distant,  somewhat 
ventricose,  pure  white  then  tinged  with  ash-color,  interstices  obscurely 
wrinkled. 

154 


Leucosporae 

Often  umbilicate.   Remarkable  for  the  few  and  distant  gills.    Stevenson.  Hygrophorus. 
Spores  loxSfj.  Cooke. 

Caps  white,  shaded  to  light  pinkish-brown  toward  center.  Gills  very 
distant.  Leaves  adhere  to  cap. 

Specimens  tested  were  of  mild,  pleasant  flavor. 

H.  sphsero'sporus  Pk.     Pileus  fleshy  and  thick  in  the  center,  sub-  ; 

obconic,  convex,  obtuse  or  slightly  umbonate,  whitish,  inclining  to  red- 
dish-brown, the  margin  incurved.  Flesh  firm,  white.  Gills  rather 
broad,  subdistant,  adnate  or  slightly  decurrent,  white.  Stems  tufted, 
flexuous,  solid,  glabrous,  often  slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  colored 
like  the  pileus.  Spores  globose,  6—  Sp,  broad. 

Pileus  6-12  lines  broad.     Stem  1-2  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick. 

Iowa.      October.      Communicated  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 

The  fresh  plant  is  said  to  have  no  decided  odor,  but  when  partly  dried 
it  emits  a  slight  but  rather  unpleasant  odor.  It  belongs  apparently  to 
the  section  Camarophyllus,  and  is  related  to  Hygrophorus  Peckii. 
Peck,  Torr.  Bull.,  Vol.  22,  No.  12. 

Received  by  the  writer  from  Hon.  Thomas  Updegraff,  MacGregor, 
Iowa,  and  forwarded  to  Professor  Peck  as  a  new  species. 

The  fungus  has  but  slight  taste  and  is  without  odor  when  fresh. 

It  is  probably  edible.      Not  received  in  sufficient  quantity  to  test. 

III. — HYGRO'CYBE. 
*  Gills  decurrent. 

H.  cera'ceus  Fr. — cera,  wax.  Pileus  about  i  in.  broad,  waxy-yel- 
low, shining,  slightly  fleshy,  thin,  but  slightly  firm,  convexo-plane, 
obtuse,  slightly  pellucid-striate,  viscid.  Stem  1-2  in.  and  more  long, 
about  2  lines  thick,  hollow,  often  unequal,  flexuous  and  at  length  com- 
pressed, even,  smooth,  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus,  never  darker  at  • 
the  apex.  Gills  adnato-decurrent ,  broad,  almost  triangular,  distinct, 
yellow.  Fries. 

Fragile ;  easily  distinguished  from  others  by  its  waxy  (not  change- 
able) color.  Stevenson. 

Spores  8x6/A  Cooke. 

Eaten  in  Germany. 

155 


Agaricacese 

Hygrophorus.  Found  at  Angora  and  Kingsessing,  Philadelphia,  1887.  August  to 
October.  Open  grassy  places  in  woods,  and  in  pastures.  Scattered 
and  in  troops.  Excellent.  Stew  slowly. 

H.  cantharel'lus  Schw.  Gr. — a  small  vase.  (Plate  XXXVII,  fig. 
5,  p.  146.)  PileilS  thin,  convex,  at  length  umbilicate  or  centrally  de- 
pressed, minutely  squamulose,  moist,  bright  red,  becoming  orange  or 
yellow.  Gills  distant,  subarcuate,  decurrent,  yellow,  sometimes  tinged 
with  vermilion.  Stem  smooth,  equal,  subsolid,  sometimes  becoming 
hollow,  concolorous,  whitish  within. 

Height  2-4  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  6-12  lines.     Stem  1-2  lines  thick. 

Swamps  and  damp  shaded  places  in  fields  or  woods.  July  to  Sep- 
tember. Common.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Var.  fldva.  Pileus  and  stem  pale  yellow.  Gills  arcuate,  strongly 
decurrent. 

Var.  flavipes.      Pileus  red  or  reddish.      Stem  yellow. 

Var.  ftdviceps.      Pileus  yellow.      Stem  red  or  reddish. 

Var.  Ro sea.  Has  the  pileus  expanded  and  the  margin  wavy  scal- 
loped. Swamps.  Sandlake.  Peck,  2$d  Rep. 

Common  in  the  Adirondack  region,  and  throughout  Pennsylvania 
and  New  Jersey,  in  all  its  varieties. 

The  resemblance  to  H.  miniatus  in  color  is  great,  but  there  is  a  marked 
difference  in  the  gills,  which  extend  further  down  the  thinner  stem.  It 
is  tougher,  and  takes  longer  to  cook.  It  has  a  flavor  of  its  own  which 
is  enjoyed  by  some  and  condemned  by  others. 

H.  COCCl'neilS  Schaeff. — of  a  scarlet  color.  (Plate  CXXXVI,  fig.  6, 
p.  508.)  Pileus  1-2  in.  and  more  broad,  at  first  bright  scarlet,  then 
soon  changing  color  and  becoming  pale,  slightly  fleshy,  convex,  then 
plane  and  often  unequal,  obtuse,  at  first  viscid  and  even,  smooth,  not 
floccose-scaly.  Flesh  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus.  Stem  2  in.  long, 
3—4  lines  thick,  hollow,  then  compressed  and  rather  even,  not  slippery, 
scarlet  upward,  always  yellow  at  the  base.  Gills  wholly  adnate,  decur- 
rent with  a  tooth,  plane,  distant,  connected  by  veins,  watery-soft  as  if 
fatty,  when  full  grown  purplish  at  the  base,  light  yellow  in  the  middle, 
glaucous  at  the  edge.  Fries. 

Flesh  of  the  pileus  descending  into  the  gills  and  forming  a  trama  of 
the  same  color.  Fragile.  Varying  in  stature,  easily  mistaken  for  some 

156 


Leucosporee 


of  the  following  species  which  are  of  the  same  color.  Pileus  at  length 
becoming  yellow.  Stevenson. 

Spores  10— i2x6/A  Cooke;  7x4/1*  Morgan. 

Edible.      Cooke,  Peck. 

In  woods  and  pastures.  In  troops.  Common  in  West  Virginia,  Penn- 
sylvania, New  Jersey.  Mcllvaine. 

Excellent  when  stewed  for  twenty  minutes. 

H.  fla'vo-dis'cus  Frost — flavus,  yellow;  discus,  disk.     Pileus  convex 
or  plane,    smooth,   glutinous,   white       (Plate  XXXIX.) 
with  a  pale-yellow  or  reddish-yellow 
disk.      Flesh  white.    Gills  adnate  or 
decurrent,   subdistant,   white,   some- 
times with  a  slight  flesh-colored  tint, 
the    inter-spaces    sometimes    veiny. 
Stem     subequal,     solid,     glutinous, 
white,  sometimes  slightly  stained  with 
yellow.    Spores    elliptical,    6-8x4;*. 

Plant  2-3  in.  high.    Pileus  1-3  in. 
broad.      Stem  2-8  lines  thick. 

Pine  woods.    West  Albany.    No- 
vember. 

This,    like    H.    fuligineus,   has    a 

short  white  space  at  the  top  of  the  stem,  free  from  the  viscidity  that 
exists  elsewhere.  It  resembles  in  many  respects  Hygrophorus  spe- 
ciosus,  which  has  the  pileus  red,  fading  to  yellow  with  advancing  age. 
Perhaps  the  three  may  yet  prove  to  be  forms  of  one  very  variable 
species,  for  the  most  conspicuous  differences  between  them  consist  in 
the  colors  of  the  pileus.  The  constancy  with  which  the  three  styles  of 
coloration  has  thus  far  been  maintained  indicates  a  specific  difference, 
but  color  alone  is  not  generally  regarded  as  having  any  specific  value. 
Peck,  35th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  6.4-7.6x4^  Peck. 

I  find  this  very  good  but  its  dirty  pellicle  should  be  peeled  before 
using.  Peck,  in  letter,  1896. 

Mr.  Hollis  Webster  writes  of  H.  flavo-discus  (Yellow  Sweet  Bread) 
in  Bull.  No.  45,  of  the  Boston  Mycological  Club,  1897:  "This  is  a 
mushroom  worth  going  a  long  way  to  get.  It  is  abundant  in  rich  woods 

157 


HYGROPHORUS  FLAVO-DISCUS. 
About  two-thirds  natural  size. 


Agaricaceee 

Hygrophorus.  under  pines  in  certain  localities,  and  is  a  great  favorite  with  those  who 
know  it.  It  is  easily  prepared  and  requires  little  cooking." 

I  have  eaten  en  joy  ably  of  it  since  1881. 

Plentiful  in  the  Jersey  pines,  in  West  Virginia  and  Pennsylvania,  and 
equal  to  any  toadstool  of  its  size. 

H.   fuligi'neilS   Frost — resembling  soot.     Pileus   convex  or  nearly 

plane,  glabrous,  very  viscid  or  glu- 
tinous, grayish-brown  or  soot-color, 
the  disk  often  darker  or  almost  black. 
Gills  subdistant,  adnate  or  decurrent, 
white.  Stem  solid,  viscid  or  gluti- 
nous, white  or  whitish.  Spores  ellip- 
tical, 7— 9x5 /A. 

The  Sooty  hygrophorous  resembles 
the  Club-stemmed  clitocybe  in  the 
color  of  its  cap,  but  in  nearly  every 
other  respect  it  is  different.  When 
moist  the  cap  is  covered  with  an  abun- 
dant gluten  which  when  dry  gives  it  a 
shining  appearance  as  if  varnished. 
The  color  varies  from  grayish-brown 
to  a  very  dark  or  sooty-brown  with 
the  central  part  usually  still  darker  or 

almost  black,  but  never  with  an  umbo.     The  flesh  and  the  gills  are  white. 

The  stem  also  is  white  or  but  slightly  shaded  toward  the  base  with  the 

color  of  the  cap.    It  is  variable  in  length  and  shape,  being  long  or  short, 

straight  or  crooked,  everywhere  equal  in  thickness  or  tapering  toward 

the  base.      It  is  glutinous  and  unpleasant  to  handle. 

The  cap  is  1-4  in.  broad,  the  stem  2-4  in.  long,  and  4-8  lines  thick. 

The  plants  grow  either  singly  or  in  tufts.      In  the  latter  case  the  caps 

are  often  irregular  from  mutual  pressure. 

The  plants  occur  early  in  October  and  November,  in  pine  woods  or 

woods  of  pine  and  hemlock  intermixed. 

This  mushroom  is  tender  and  of  excellent  flavor,  but  its  sticky  and 

often  dirty  covering  should  be  peeled  before  cooking.     Peck,  49th  Rep. 

N.  Y.  State  Bot. 


HYGROPHORUS   FULIGINEUS. 
About  one-half  natural  size. 


I58 


Leucosporse 

Found  at  Angora,  near  Philadelphia,  August  I,  1897.      Densely  ces-  Hygrophorus. 
pitose. 

Raw  it  tastes  like  dead  leaves.    Tender  and  of  fine  flavor  when  cooked. 

H.  minia'tllS  Fr. — minium,  red  lead.  (Plate  XXXVII,  fig.  4,  p. 
146.)  PileilS  thin,  fragile,  at  first  convex,  becoming  nearly  plane,  gla- 
brous or  minutely  squamulose,  often  umbilicate,  generally  red.  Gills 
distant,  adnate,  yellow,  often  tinged  with  red.  Stem  slender,  glabrous, 
colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  elliptical,  white,  8/x.  long. 

Cap  Yz-2  in.  broad.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  1-2  lines  thick.  Peck,  48th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Var.  lutes' cens.  Pileus  yellow  or  reddish-yellow.  Stem  and  gills  yel- 
low. Plant  often  cespitose.  Peck,  4ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  iox6/A  Cooke ;  elliptical,  white. 

Grows  where  it  pleases  and  abundantly  throughout  the  land.  In  wet 
weather  I  have  found  it  in  July  and  late  in  autumn. 

Professor  Peck  says :  It  is  scarcely  surpassed  by  any  mushroom  in 
tenderness  of  substance  and  agreeableness  of  flavor. 

The  gunner  for  partridges  will  not  shoot  rabbits ;  the  knowing  toad- 
stool seeker  will  pass  all  others  where  H.  miniatus  abounds. 

**  Gills  adnexed,  etc. 

H.  puni'ceus  Fr. — blood-red.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  glittering  blood- 
scarlet,  in  dry  weather  and  when  old  becoming  pale  especially  at  the 
disk,  slightly  fleshy  for  its  breadth,  at  first  bell-shaped,  obtuse,  commonly 
repand  or  lobed,  very  irregular,  even,  smooth,  viscid.  Flesh  of  the  same 
color,  fragile.  Stem  3  in.  long,  %-\  in.  thick,  solid  when  young,  at 
length  hollow,  very  stout  (not  compressed),  ventricose  (attenuated  at 
both  ends),  striate,  and  for  the  most  part  squamulose  at  the  apex,  when 
dry  light  yellowish  or  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus,  always  white  and 
often  incurved  at  the  base.  Gills  ascending,  ventricose,  2-4  lines 
broad,  thick,  distant,  white-light  yellow  or  yellow  and  often  reddish  at 
the  base.  Fries. 

The  largest  of  the  group  and  very  handsome.  It  certainly  differs 
from  H.  coccineus,  for  which  it  is  commonly  mistaken,  in  stature,  in 
the  adnexed  gills,  and  in  the  white  base  of  the  striate  stem.  The  attach- 
ment of  the  gills  varies,  but  from  the  form  of  the  pileus  they  ascend  to 
the  base  of  the  cone  and  appear  free. 

159 


Agaricaceee 

Hygrophorus.       In  pastures.      Stevenson. 
Spores  8x5/4  Cooke. 

Edible.  Cooke.  No  harm  would  come  of  confusing  it  with  the  ver- 
milion mushroom — H.  miniatus  Pk. 

H.  COn'icilS  Fr. — conical.  Pileus  thin,  submembranaceous,  fragile, 
smooth,  conical,  generally  acute,  sometimes  obtuse,  the  margin  often 
lobed.  Gills  rather  close  and  broad,  subventricose,  narrower  toward 
the  stem,  free,  terminating  in  an  abrupt  tooth  at  the  outer  extremity, 
scarcely  reaching  the  margin,  yellow.  Stem  equal,  fibrous-striate,  yel- 
low, hollow. 

Height  3-6  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  6—12  lines.     Stem  1-2  lines  thick. 

Ground  in  woods  and  open  places.  North  Elba  and  Center.  August 
to  October. 

The  color  of  the  pileus  is  variable.  I  have  taken  specimens  with  it 
pale  sulphur-yellow  and  others  with  it  bright  red  or  scarlet.  The  plant 
turns  black  in  drying.  Peck,  Rep.  23,  New  York  State  Bot. 

Spores  lOx/ju.  Cooke;   iox6/A  Morgan. 

An  old-time  cure-all  had  medicinal  virtues  proportionate  to  its  offen- 
siveness.  Old-time  writers,  contrariwise,  gave  every  toadstool  a  bad 
name  which  changed  color  or  displeased  their  noses.  The  pretty  little 
Hygrophorus  conicus,  for  these  reasons,  has,  until  now,  been  under  the 
ban  of  suspicion.  M.  C.  Cooke,  in  his  handy  book,  Edible  and  Poison- 
ous Mushrooms,  was  the  first  to  lighten  its  sentence  and  make  it  a  sort 
of  ticket-of-leave  culprit. 

The  writer  has  frequently  eaten  it,  and  is  glad  to  vouch  for  its  harm- 
lessness  and  testify  to  its  eminent  respectability. 

H.  cllloroph'anus  Fr.  Gr. — greenish-yellow.  PileilS  I  in.  broad, 
commonly  bright  sulphur-yellow,  sometimes,  however,  scarlet,  not 
changing  color,  somewhat  membranaceous,  very  fragile,  at  first  convex, 
then  plane,  obtuse,  orbicular  and  lobed,  and  at  length  cracked,  smooth, 
viscid,  striate.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick,  hollow,  equal, 
round,  rarely  compressed,  wholly  even,  smooth,  viscid  when  moist, 
shining  when  dry,  wholly  unicolorous,  rich  light  yellow.  Gills  emar- 
ginato-adnexed,  very  ventricose,  with  a  thin  decurrent  tooth,  thin,  dis- 
tant, distinct.  Fries. 

Very  much  allied  to  H.  conicus,  but  never  becoming  black,  and  other- 

160 


PLATE  XLI. 


it? 


:•• 


Leucosporse 

wise  certainly  distinguished  by  its  convex,  obtuse,  striate  pileus,  by  its  Hygrophoms. 
even  and  viscous  stem,  and  by  its  emarginato-free,  thin,  somewhat  dis- 
tant, whiter  gills.      Like  H.  ceraceus  in  appearance. 

In  grassy  and  mossy  places.    Common.    August  to  October.    Steven- 
son. 

Spores  8x5/u,  Cooke;  8/*  Q. 

Received  from  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J.,  August,  1897. 

Open  grassy  woods. 

But  three  specimens  were  tested.    They  were  in  everyway  agreeable. 


LACTA'RIUS  Fr. 

Giving  lac  (milk). 

hymenophore  continuous  with  the  stem.    PileilS  Lactarins. 
-         I         somewhat  rigid,  fleshy,  becoming  more  or  less  de- 
^^         pressed,  often  marked  with  concentric  zones.     Gills 


unequal,  membranaceous-waxy,  slightly  rigid, 
milky,  edge  acute,  decurrent  or  adnate  and  often 
branched.  Stem  stout,  central,  rarely  excentric 
except  in  those  growing  on  trunks.  Spores  globose,  minutely  echinu- 
late,  white,  rarely  yellowish. 

Nearly  all  grow  on  the  ground. 

Distinguished  from  all  other  fungi  by  the  presence  of  a  granular  milk 
which  pervades  every  part  of  the  plant  and  especially  the  gills ;  it  is 
commonly  white,  sometimes  changing  color  and  in  section  Dapetes 
highly  colored  from  the  first.  The  nature  of  the  milk,  especially  its 
taste,  whether  acrid,  subacrid  or  mild,  must  be  carefully  noted  in  dis- 
tinguishing species,  as  it  is  the  most  useful  characteristic. 

In  Russula,  the  only  allied  genus,  the  milk-bearing  cells  are  present, 
but  their  contents  do  not  appear  as  milk. 

Many  of  the  species  are  peppery,  acrid,  astringent;  some  mildly  so, 
others  will  be  long  remembered  if  tasted  raw.  Yet  not  a  species  is  hot- 
ter than  some  radishes,  onions,  and  others  of  our  favorite  vegetables. 
Who  would  condemn  them  because  they  are  peppery?  There  is  not  a 
single  species  of  Lactarius  which  retains  its  pepperiness  after  cooking. 
This  quality  has  to  be  and  is  supplied  by  one  of  our  favorite  condiments 
ii  161 


Agaricaceae 

Lactarius.  — pepper  itself .  Simply  because  they  are  toadstools  and  hot,  they  have 
been  condemned  without  trial.  It  is  remarkable  that  not  one  of  the 
fungi  known  to  be  deadly  gives  any  warning  by  appearance  or  flavor  of 
the  presence  of  a  poison.  The  day  will  probably  come  when  it  can  be 
said  that  if  toadstool  eaters  will  confine  themselves  to  hot  species,  other- 
wise attractive,  they  will  run  no  risk.  Panus  stypticus  is  astringent, 
not  hot. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

PlPERITES  (peppery,  after  piperitis,  pepperwort).      Page  163. 

Stem  central.  Gills  unchangeable,  not  pruinose  nor  becoming  dis- 
colored. Milk  white  at  first,  usually  acrid. 

*  TRICHOLOMOIDEI — inclining  to  Tricholoma.     Pileus  moist,  viscid, 
margin  incurved  and  downy  at  first. 

**  LlMACINl — Umax,  a  slug.  Pileus  viscid  when  moist,  with  a  pel- 
licle, margin  naked. 

***  PIPERATI.  Pileus  without  a  pellicle,  hence  absolutely  dry,  often 
more  or  less  downy  or  unpolished. 

DAPETES  (daps,  a  feast).     Page  170. 
Stem  central.     Gills  naked.     Milk  highly  colored  from  the  first. 

RUSSULARIA  (inclining  to  Russula).      Page  173. 

Stem  central.  Gills  pallid  then  discolored,  at  length  dark  and  pow- 
dered with  the  white  spores.  Milk  at  first  white,  mild,  or  from  mild 
becoming  acrid. 

*  VlSClDI — viscidus,  viscid,  sticky.     Pileus  viscid  at  first. 

**  IMPOLITI — impolitus,  unpolished.  Pileus  squamulose,  downy  or 
pruinose. 

***  GLABRATI — glaber,  smooth.     Pileus  polished,  smooth. 

PLEUROPUS  (pleura,  side;  pous,  a  foot). 

Stem  excentric  or  lateral.  Growing  on  trunks.  None  known  to  be 
edible. 


162 


Leucosporee 

I. — PIPERI'TES. 
*  TRICHOLOMOI'DEI.     Pileus  viscid,  margin  incurved,  etc. 

L.  tormino'silS  Fr. — tormina,  gripes.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  convex,  Lactarius. 
then  depressed,  viscid  when  young  or  moist,  yellowish-red  or  pale- 
ochraceous  tinged  with  red  or  flesh  color,  often  varied  with  zones  or 
spots,  the  at  first  involute  margin  persistently  tomentose-hairy .  Gills 
thin,  close,  narrow,  whitish,  often  tinged  with  yellow  or  flesh  color. 
Stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng>  4-8  lines  thick,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  down- 
ward, hollow,  sometimes  spotted,  whitish.  Spores  subglobose  or 
broadly  elliptical,  9-io/>t.  Milk  white,  taste  acrid. 

Woods.  Adirondack  mountains  and  Sandlake.  August.  Peck, 
38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Poisonous,  and  Gillet  declares  it  to  be  deleterious  and  even  danger- 
ous, and  that  in  the  raw  state  it  is  a  very  strong  drastic  purgative.  On 
the  other  hand,  Cordier  states  that  almost  all  authors  agree  in  stating 
that  it  is  eaten  with  impunity,  and  that  Letellier  has  eaten  it  more  than 
once  without  inconvenience. 

Cooke  states:  "Whether  it  is  poison  is  rather  uncertain,  and  prob- 
ably assumed  from  its  acridity." 

Bulliard  says:  "It  is  very  acrid  and  this  is  changed  by  heat  into  an 
astringent  of  such  power  that  a  very  little  suffices  to  produce  the  most 
terrible  accidents."  On  the  other  hand,  Boudier  says  that  the  pres- 
ence of  an  acrid  milk  is  an  indication  of  no  importance,  that  in  cer- 
tain parts  of  the  country  they  eat  such  Lactaria  as  even  L.  piperatus 
and  do  not  experience  any  trouble.  Certain  Russulae  as  acrid  as  any 
Lactaria  are  known  to  be  inoffensive. 

The  Russians  preserve  it  in  salt  and  eat  it  seasoned  with  oil  and  vine- 
gar. 

L.  tur'pis  Fr. — turpis,  base,  from  its  ugly  appearance.  Pileus  large, 
as  much  as  3-12  in.  broad,  olivaceous  inclining  to  timber,  fleshy,  rigid, 
convex  becoming  plane,  disk-shaped  or  umbilicate,  at  length  depressed, 
innately  hairy  at  the  circumference  or  wholly  covered  over  with  tena- 
cious gluten,  zoneless,  sometimes  tawny  toward  the  margin,  at  length 
entirely  inclining  to  umber;  margin  for  a  long  time  involute,  at  the  first 
villous,  olivaceous-light-yellow,  then  more  or  less  flattened,  at  length 

163 


Agaricaceae 

Lactarius.  often  densely  furrowed.  Flesh  compact,  white,  then  slightly  reddish. 
Stem  1%—  3  in.  long,  %— I  in.  and  more  thick,  solid,  hard,  equal  or 
attenuated  downward,  even  or  pitted  and  uneven,  but  not  spotted,  viscid 
or  dry,  pallid  or  dark  olivaceous,  ochraceous-whitish  at  the  apex.  Gills 
adnato-decurrent,  thin,  1-2  lines  broad,  much  crowded,  forked,  white 
straw-color,  spotted  brownish  when  broken  or  bruised.  Milk  acrid, 
white,  unchangeable.  Fries. 

Gregarious,  rigidly  and  compactly  fleshy;  habit  almost  that  of  Paxillus 
involutus.  It  varies  with  the  stem  hollow,  and  the  pileus  somewhat 
zoned. 

Spores  spheroid  or  subspheroid,  uniguttate,  echinulate,  6-8/u.  K.; 
minutely  spinulose,  6-8/x.  Massee. 

New  Jersey,  Trenton,  E,  B.  Sterling;  North  Carolina,  Curtis, 
Schweinitz;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  September,  1898.  Along  road  in  woods, 
moist  places.  Mcllvaine. 

The  species  is  attractive  by  its  very  homeliness  and  odd  individuality. 
It  is  not  inviting.  Cooked  it  is  coarse  and  resembles  L.  piperatus.  An 
emergency  species. 

L.  COntrover'silS  Fr. — contra,  against;  verto,  to  turn.  PileilS  3  in. 
and  more  broad,  fleshy,  compact,  rigid,  at  the  first  convex,  broadly 
umbilicate,  when  fuller  grown  somewhat  funnel-sJiaped ,  oblique,  on 
emerging  from  the  ground  dry,  flocculose,  whitish,  then  with  rain 
smooth,  viscid,  reddish,  with  blood-colored  spots  and  zones  (especially 
toward  the  margin),  margin  acute  when  young,  closely  involute,  more 
or  less  villous.  Flesh  very  firm.  Stem  commonly  I  in.  long  and  thick, 
sometimes,  however,  2  in.  long  and  then  manifestly  attenuated  toward 
the  base  and  often  excentric,  solid,  obese,  even  but  pruinate  and  as  if 
striate  at  the  apex  from  the  obsoletely  decurrent  tooth  of  the  gills, 
wholly  white,  never  pitted.  Gills  decurrent,  thin,  very  crowded,  1—2 
lines  broad,  with  many  shorter  ones  intermixed,  but  rarely  branched, 
pallid-white-flesh-color.  Milk  white,  unchangeable,  plentiful.  Fries. 

Odor  weak  but  pleasant,  taste  very  acrid.      Allied  to  L.  piperatus. 

In  woods.      Uncommon.     August  to  October.      Stevenson. 

Spores  echinulate,  8x6/*  W.G.S.;  globose,  rough,  6-8/*  Massee. 

California,  H.  and  M . 

Edible,  rather  deficient  in  aroma  and  flavor.      Cooke. 

164 


Leucosporae 

L.  blen'nius  Fr.     Gr.  —  slimy.     PileilS  3~5  in-  across.     Flesh  thick,  Lactarios. 

farm  ;    soon   expanded   and   more  or 

(  Plate  XLIa.) 

less    depressed,    glutinous,    dingy 

greenish-gray,    often  more   or  less 

zoned  with  drop-like  markings  ;  mar- 

gin   at    first    incurved    and    downy. 

Gills    slightly    decurrent,    crowded, 

narrow,  whitish  or  with  an  ochrace- 

ous  tinge.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  up  to 

I  in.  thick  at  the  apex,  where  it  ex-  LACTARILS  BLENNIUS. 

pands  into  the  thick  flesh  of  the  pi-           About  one-fourth  natural  *ize- 

leus,  often  attenuated  at  the  base,  viscid,  colored  like  the  stem  or  paler, 

soon  hollow.     Milk  persistently  white,  very  acrid.     Spores  subglobose, 


In  woods,  on  the  ground,  very  rarely  on  trunks. 

L.  turpis  somewhat  resembles  the  present  species  but  differs  in  the 
darker  olive-brown  pileus  and  the  yellow  down  on  the  incurved  margin, 
especially  when  young.  Massee. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  fleshy,  rarely  subzonate,  convex,  the  margin 
generally  involute  and  adpresso-tomentose  (quite  smooth,  Fries]  ;  at 
length  more  or  less  depressed,  dull  cinereous-green,  at  first  viscid,  more 
or  less  pitted.  Milk  white,  not  changeable.  Gills  rather  narrow,  pale 
ochraceous,  scarcely  forked,  not  connected  by  veins.  Stem  I  in.  long, 
/€->£  in.  thick,  paler  than  the  pileus,  attenuated  downward,  obtuse, 
smooth,  at  length  hollow,  sometimes  pitted,  very  acrid.  Berk, 

Edible.     Coarse. 

**LIMACI'NI.     Pileus  viscid,  etc. 

L.  inSUl'silS  Fr.  —  tasteless.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  convex  and  um- 
bilicate,  then  funnel-shaped,  glabrous,  viscid,  more  or  less  sonate,  yellow- 
ish, the  margin  naked.  Gills  thin,  close,  adnate  or  decurrent,  some  of 
them  forked  at  the  base,  whitish  or  pallid.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  4-6 
lines  thick,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  downward,  stuffed  or  hollow, 
whitish  or  yellowish,  generally  spotted.  Spores  7.6-9/1*.  Milk  white, 
taste  acrid. 

Thin  woods  and  open,  grassy  places.  Greenbush  and  Sandlake,  N.Y. 
July  and  August. 

165 


Agaricacese 

.Lactarius.  Our  plant  has  the  pileus  pale  yellow  or  straw  color,  and  sometimes 
nearly  white,  but  European  forms  have  been  described  as  having  it 
orange-yellow  and  brick-red.  It  is  generally,  though  often  obscurely, 
zonate.  The  zones  are  ordinarily  more  distinct  near  the  margin,  where 
they  are  occasionally  very  narrow  and  close.  The  milk  in  the  Green- 
bush  specimens  had  a  thin,  somewhat  watery  appearance.  Peck,  38th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey.  July  to  September.  Com- 
mon in  mixed  woods  and  grassy  places.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Cordier,  Curtis. 

L.  insulsus  is  another  peppery  member  of  Lactarius  which  has 
suffered  unjustly.  I  have  eaten  it  since  1881,  and  think  it  the  best  of 
the  hot  milk  species.  Its  flesh  is  not  as  coarse  as  others,  and  is  of 
better  flavor.  There  is  little  difference  in  quality  between  it  and  L. 
deliciosus. 

L.  hys'ghlUS  Fr.  Gr. — a  crimson  dye.  PileilS  2-3  in.  broad,  rigid, 
at  first  convex,  then  nearly  plane,  umbilicate  or  slightly  depressed,  even, 
viscid,  zoneless  or  rarely  obscurely  zonate,  reddish-incarnate,  tan-color 
or  brownish-red,  becoming  paler  with  age,  the  thin  margin  inflexed. 
Gills  close,  adnate  or  subdecurrent,  whitish,  becoming  yellowish  or 
cream-colored.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  4—8  lines  thick,  equal,  glabrous, 
stuffed  or  hollow,  colored  like  the  pileus,  or  a  little  paler,  sometimes 
spotted.  Milk  white,  taste  acrid. 

Woods.  Sandlake  and  Canoga,  N.  Y.  July  and  August.  Not 
common. 

The  reddish  hue  of  the  pileus  distinguishes  this  species  from  its  allies. 
The  gluten  or  viscidity  of  the  pileus  in  our  specimens  was  rather  tena- 
cious and  persistent.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  subglobose,  whitish  on  black  paper,  yellowish  on  white  paper, 
9-io/x.  Peck;  IOX7-8/A  Massee.  •. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  1897.      Mixed  woods.     August,  September. 

Not  very  acrid.  The  entire  acridity  disappears  in  cooking  Several 
specimens  were  found  and  eaten,  enough  to  prove  it  esculent  and  of 
good  quality. 


1 66 


Leucosporae 
***  PiPERATI.     Pileus  dry,  etc. 

L.  plum'beus  Fr. — like  plumbum,  lead.     Pileus  2—5  in.  broad,  com-  Lactarius. 
pact,  convex,  then  infundibuliform,  dry,  unpolished  sooty  or  brownish- 
black.     Gills  crowded,  white,  or  yellowish.      Stem  1-5-3  m-  l°ng»  3-6 
lines    thick,   solid,    equal,    thick.       Milk    white,    acrid,    unchangeable. 
Spores  6.3-7.6)".. 

The  specimens  which  I  have  referred  to  this  species  were  found  in  the 
Catskill  mountains  several  years  ago,  growing  in  hemlock  woods,  under 
spruce  and  balsam  trees.  I  have  not  met  with  the  species  since.  The 
pileus  in  the  larger  specimens  had  a  minutely  tomentose  appearance, 
but  in  the  dried  specimens  this  has  disappeared.  They  also  varied  in 
color  from  blackish-brown  to  pinkish-brown  and  grayish-brown,  but 
they  can  scarcely  be  more  than  a  mere  form  or  variety  of  the  species 
the  description  of  which,  as  given  by  Fries,  I  have  quoted.  In  the 
Handbook  the  pileus  is  described  as  dark  fuliginous-gray  or  brown,  and 
Gillet  describes  it  as  black-brown,  dark  fuliginous  or  lead  color,  and 
adds  that  the  plant  is  poisonous  and  the  milk  very  acrid  and  burning. 
Cordier  says  that  the  flesh  is  white  and  the  taste  bitter  and  disagreeable. 
Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Poisonous.      Gillet. 

L.  pergame'nilS  Fr. — parchment.  White.  Pileus  fleshy,  pliant, 
convex  then  piano-depressed,  spread,  zoneless,  slightly  wrinkled, 
smooth.  Stem  stuffed,  smooth,  changing  color.  Gills  adnate,  very 
narrow,  horizontal,  very  crowded,  branched,  white,  then  straw-color. 
Milk  white,  acrid. 

Very  much  allied  to  L.  piperatus,  but  differing  in  the  stem  being 
stuffed,  at  length  softer  internally,  elongated,  3  in.,  unequal,  attenu- 
ated downward  and  here  and  there  ascending,  quite  smooth;  in  \hepilens 
being  thinner,  pliant,  elastic,  most  frequently  irregular  and  excentric, 
for  the  most  part  flexuous,  at  first  convex  (not  umbilicate),  then  rather 
plane,  the  surface  very  smooth,  but  unpolished  and  wrinkled  in  a  pecu- 
liar manner ;  and  in  the  gills  being  adnate,  not  decurrent,  very  crowded, 
very  narrow  (scarcely  I  line  broad),  always  straight  and  horizontal ,  not 
arcuate  or  extended  upward,  soon  straw-color :  The  flesh  is  very  milky, 
but  the  gills  are  sparingly  so.  Fries. 

In  woods.     October. 

167 


Agaricaceae 

Lactarius.       Spores  subglobose,  rather  irregular,  6-8/u.  C.B.P.;  broadly  elliptical, 
echinulate,  7x5-6/4  Massee. 

Eaten  on  the  continent  and  Nova  Scotia.      Edible.      Cooke. 
North  Carolina,  Curtis;  New  England,  Frost;  Ohio,  Morgan. 

L.  pipera'tus  Fr.— -piper,  pepper.  (Plate  XLI,  fig.  I ,  p.  160.)  Pileus 
4—9  in.  broad,  white,  fleshy,  rigid,  umbilicate  when  young,  reflexed  (mar- 
gin at  first  involute)  at  the  circumference,  when  full  grown  wholly  funnel- 
shaped,  for  the  most  part  regular,  even,  smooth,  zoneless.  Flesh  white. 
Stem  1-2  in.  long,  1-2  in.  thick,  solid,  obese,  equal  or  obconical,  even, 
obsoletely  pruinose,  white.  Gills  decurrent,  crowded,  narrow,  scarcely 
broader  than  I  line,  obtuse  at  the  edge,  dividing  by  pairs,  arcuate  then 
all  extended  upward  in  a  straight  line,  white,  here  and  there  with  yellow 
spots.  Milk  white,  unchangeable,  plentiful  and  very  acrid. 

Compact,  firm,  dry,  inodorous.  The  pileus  becomes  obsoletely  yellow 
when  old.  Although  the  gills  are  spotted  with  yellow,  they  do  not 
change  to  straw  color  like  those  of  L.  pergamenus.  Fries. 

Spores  white,  nearly  smooth,  6.3-7.6^  Peck;  subglobose,  8-9/4  dia- 
meter Massee;  5x6/*  W.G.S. 

Pennsylvania,  West  Virginia,  1881-1885.  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania 
in  woods  and  on  grassy  places.  July  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

L.  piperatus  is  a  readily  distinguished  species.  It  is  very  common. 
In  1 88 1,  after  an  extensive  forest  fire  in  the  West  Virginia  forests,  I  saw 
miles  of  the  blackened  district  made  white  by  a  growth  of  this  fungus. 
It  was  the  phenomenal  growth  which  first  attracted  my  attention  to 
toadstools.  I  collected  it  then  in  quantity  and  used  it,  with  good  results, 
as  a  fertilizer  on  impoverished  ground. 

It  has  been  eaten  for  many  years  in  most  countries,  yet  a  few  writers 
continue  to  warn  against  it.  It  is  the  representative  fungus  of  its  class — 
meaty,  coarse,  fair  flavor.  It  is  edible  and  is  good  food  when  one  is 
hungry  and  can  not  get  better.  It  is  best  used  as  an  absorbent  of 
gravies. 

L.  decepti'vus  Pk. — deceiving.  Pileus  3-5  in.  broad,  compact,  at 
first  convex  and  umbilicate,  then  expanded  and  centrally  depressed  or 
subinfundibuliform,  obsoletely  tomentose  or  glabrous  except  on  the  mar- 
gin, white  or  whitish,  often  varied  with  yellowish  or  sordid  stains,  the 

1 68 


Leucosporee 

margin  at  first  involute  and  clothed  with  a  dense,  soft  or  cottony  tomentu m ,  Lactarius. 
then  spreading  or  elevated  and  more  or  less  fibrillose.  Gills  rather 
broad,  distant  or  subdistant,  adnate  or  decurrent,  some  of  them  forked, 
whitish,  becoming  cream-colored.  Stem  1-3  in.  long,  8-18  lines  thick, 
equal  or  narrowed  downward,  solid,  pruinose-pubescent,  white.  Spores 
white,  9-12. 7/1.  Milk  white,  taste  acrid. 

Woods  and  open  places,  especially  under  hemlock  trees.  Common. 
July  to  September. 

Trial  of  its  edible  qualities  was  made  without  any  evil  conse- 
quences. The  acridity  was  destroyed  by  cooking.  Peck,  38th  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Alabama,  U.  and  E.;  New  York,  Peck,  38th  Rep.;  West  Virginia, 
1881-1885,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey.  Woods  and  open  places.  July 
to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

In  common  with  all  peppery  Lactarii  the  present  species  loses  the 
quality  in  cooking.  The  edible  qualities  then  depend  upon  texture, 
substance,  flavor.  The  species  is  coarse  but  meaty  and  of  fair  flavor. 

L.  velle'reus  Fr. — vellus,  fleece.  Pileus  2-5  in.  broad,  compact,  at 
first  convex  and  umbilicate,  then  expanded  and  centrally  depressed  or 
subinfundibuliform,  the  whole  surface  minutely  velvety-tomentose ,  soft  to 
the  touch,  white  or  whitish,  the  margin  at  first  involute,  then  reflexed. 
Gills  distant  or  subdistant,  adnate  or  decurrent,  sometimes  forked, 
whitish  becoming  yellowish  or  cream-colored.  Stem  .5—2  in.  long, 
6- 1 6  lines  thick,  firm,  solid,  equal  or  tapering  downward,  pruinose- 
pubescent,  white.  Milk  white,  taste  acrid.  Spores  white. 

Woods  and  open  places.  Common.  July  to  September.  Peck,  38th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  white,  nearly  smooth,  7-9^  Peck;  4x8/1  W.G.S. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey.  Woods  and  open  places. 
July  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Poisonous  according  to  some  authors.  Cordier.  Edible.  Leveille. 
Eaten  it  for  eighteen  years.  Mcllvaine. 

This  common,  very  acrid  species  is  characterized  by  the  downy 
covering  of  its  cap. 

It  is  a  coarse  species,  but  meaty.  Its  acridity  is  lost  in  cooking, 
when  it  makes  a  fair  dish. 

169 


Agaricacese 

Lactarius.  L.  involu'tus  Soppitt. — involved.  Every  part  white  or  with  a  very 
slight  ochraceous  tinge.  Pileus  i— 2  in.  across,  flesh  about  i/4  lines 
thick,  equal  up  to  the  margin,  compact,  rigid,  convex,  soon  becoming 
plane  or  slightly  depressed,  margin  strongly  and  persistently  involute, 
extreme  edge  minutely  silky,  remainder  even  and  glabrous.  Gills  very 
slightly  decurrent,  densely  crowded,  not  %  line  broad,  sometimes  forked. 
Stem  %—i  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick,  equal,  or  slightly  thickened  at  the 
base,  glabrous,  even,  solid,  very  firm.  Milk  white,  unchangeable,  not 
scanty,  very  hot.  Spores  obliquely  elliptical,  smooth,  5x3/01. 

Very  firm  and  rigid,  resembling  in  habit  L.  vellereus  in  miniature. 
Most  nearly  allied  to  L.  scoticus,  but  known  at  once  by  the  exceedingly 
narrow,  densely-crowded  gills  and  the  smooth,  elliptical  spores.  Massee. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885,  plentiful.  Angora,  West  Philadelphia. 
August,  September,  1897.  In  mixed  woods.  Mcllvaine. 

Much  smaller  than  L.  piperatus.  Pileus  convex,  then  plane  with 
depressions  in  center,  margin  involute.  Gills  slightly  decurrent,  densely 
crowded,  very  narrow.  Stem  short,  firm,  solid.  Milk  white,  very  hot. 

L.  involutus  is  readily  mistaken  for  small  forms  of  L.  vellereus  and 
L.  piperatus.  The  extremely  narrow  gills,  so  close  and  firm  that  it  takes 
sharp  eyes  to  follow  them,  are  a  distinguishing  mark. 

Its  flesh  is  of  same  consistency  as  L.  piperatus — hard  and  coarse.  It 
loses  its  pepperiness  in  cooking  and  is  a  good  emergency  plant,  or 
solvent. 

II. — DAPETES  — daps,  food.      Milk  highly  colored,  etc. 

America  is  rich  in  this  section.  Fries  records  but  two  species,  L. 
deliciosus  and  L.  sanguifluus,  while  America  has  four.  The  edible 
properties  of  three  are  known  to  be  good  ;  L.  subpurpureus  has  not  come 
under  observation,  but  is  added  to  complete  the  series  as  it  is  probably 
edible  and  is  well  marked  by  its  dark-red  milk.  Mcllvaine. 

L.  delicio'sus  Fr. — delicious.  (Plate  XLI,  fig.  3,  p.  160.)  Pilens 
2-6  in.  broad,  orange-brick-color,  yellowish  or  grayish-orange,  becom- 
ing pale,  fleshy,  when  quite  young  depressed  in  the  center,  margin 
naked,  involute,  then  piano-depressed  or  broadly  funnel-shaped  with 
the  margin  unfolded,  smooth,  slightly  viscid,  zoned  (zones  sometimes 
obsolete).  Flesh  soft,  not  compact,  pallid,  colored  at  the  circumfer- 

170 


Leucosporae 

ence  only  by  the  juice.  Stem  1-2  in.  and  more  long,  i  in.  thick,  Lactarius. 
stuffed  then  hollow,  at  length  fragile,  equal  or  attenuated  at  the  base, 
spotted  in  a  pitted  manner,  of  the  same  color  as  the  piieus  or  paler. 
Gills  somewhat  decurrent,  crowded,  narrow,  arcuate,  often  branched, 
typically  saffron-yellow,  but  becoming  pale  and  always  becoming  green 
when  wounded.  Milk  aromatic,  from  the  first  red-brick-saffron.  Fries. 

Spores  white,  spheroid,  echinulate  7-8/x  K.;  6/x,  W.G.S.;  echinulate, 
9—  iox7-8/A  Massee;  subglobose,  7.6-io/x,  Peck. 

In  woods,  under  firs,  etc. 

Pileus  dingy  orange-red  becoming  pale,  often  greenish.  Every  part 
turns  to  a  homely  green  when  bruised.  It  is  from  3  to  5  in.  across, 
thick,  convex,  then  depressed  in  center,  margin  at  first  curved  in.  Gills 
decurrent,  narrow,  saffron-color.  Milk  saffron-red  or  orange  changing 
to  green;  sweet  scented  but  slightly  acrid.  I  have  never  seen  but  one 
specimen  with  milk  distinctly  orange,  and  changing  to  green.  The 
milk  in  this  species  varies  in  color,  much  depending  upon  moisture.  It 
grows  in  patches,  sometimes  in  clusters. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

There  is  no  question  of  its  edibility.  Old  and  modern  writers  applaud 
it.  Each  cooks  to  his  liking  and  thinks  his  own  way  best.  It  requires 
forty  minutes'  stewing  or  baking;  less  time  if  roasted  or  fried.  It  can 
be  cooked  in  any  way,  but,  like  all  Lactarii,  it  must  be  well  cooked. 

L.  in'digO  Schw. — (Plate  XLI,  fig.  2,  p.  160.)  Pileus  2-5  in. 
broad,  at  first  umbilicate  with  the  margin  involute,  then  depressed  or 
infundibuliform,  indigo-blue  with  a  silvery-gray  luster,  zonate,  especially 
on  the  margin,  sometimes  spotted,  becoming  paler  and  less  distinctly 
zonate  with  age  or  in  drying.  Gills  close,  indigo-blue,  becoming  yel- 
lowish and  sometimes  greenish  with  age.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  6-10 
lines  thick,  short  nearly  equal,  hollow,  often  spotted  with  blue,  colored 
like  the  piieus.  Milk  dark-blue. 

Dry  places,  especially  under  or  near  pine  trees.  Not  rare  but  seldom 
abundant.  July  to  September.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  subglobose,  7.6-9/*  long  Peck. 

West  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  Solitary 
and  in  groups,  in  pine  and  mixed  woods.  July  to  September.  Mcllvaine. 

The  exceptional  color  of  L.  indigo  will  halt  anyone  with  ordinary 
observing  power.  It  is  unnecessary  to  describe  it  further.  Being  a 

171 


Agaricaceaa 

Lactarius.  large,  stout  plant  it  frequently  lifts  the  leaf  mat  as  it  pushes  upward, 
making  leaf-mounds  under  which  it  is  hidden,  as  do  many  of  the  Cor- 
tinarii.       But   even   in   such   instances   there  are   usually  a  few  solitary 
plants  standing  prominently  forth  as  sentinels. 
It  is  edible,  but  coarse.     Good  flavor. 

L.  chelido'nium  Pk.  Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  at  first  convex,  then 
nearly  plane  and  umbilicate  or  centrally  depressed,  grayish-yellow  or 
tawny,  at  length  varied  with  bluish  and  greenish  stains,  often  with  a  few 
narrow  zones  on  the  margin.  Gills  narrow,  close,  sometimes  forked, 
anastomosing  or  wavy  at  the  base,  grayish-yellow.  Stem  1-1.5  in. 
long,  4—6  lines  thick,  short,  subequal,  hollow,  colored  like  the  pileus. 
Spores  globose,  7.5ft.  Milk  sparse,  saffron-yellow ;  taste  mild. 

Sandy  soil,  under  or  near  pine  trees.      Saratoga  and  Bethlehem. 

The  milk  of  this  species  resembles  in  color  the  juice  of  celandine, 
Chelidonium  majus.  It  is  paler  than  that  of  L.  deliciosus.  By  this 
character  and  by  the  dull  color  of  the  pileus,  the  narrow  lamellae,  short 
stem  and  its  fondness  for  dry  situations,  it  may  be  separated  from  the 
other  species.  Wounds  of  the  flesh  are  at  first  stained  with  the  color 
of  the  milk,  then  with  blue,  finally  with  green.  A  saffron-color  is  some- 
times attributed  to  the  milk  of  L.  deliciosus,  which  may  indicate  that 
this  species  has  been  confused  with  that,  or  that  the  relationship  of  the 
two  plants  is  a  closer  one  than  we  have  assigned  to  them.  Peck,  38th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  In  mixed  woods,  gravelly  low  ground.  Septem- 
ber, October.  Mcllvaine. 

A  score  or  more  solitary  specimens  were  found  and  eaten.  The  sub- 
stance and  flavor  are  not  distinguishable  from  L.  deliciosus,  which  is 
lauded  to  the  summit  of  good  toadstools. 

Lo  subpurpu'reus  Pk. — sub,  under;  purpnretis,  purple.  Pileus  at 
first  convex,  then  nearly  plane  or  subinfundibuliform,  more  or  less 
spotted  and  zonate  when  young,  and  moist  dark-red  with  a  grayish 
luster.  Gills  close,  dark-red,  becoming  less  clear  and  sometimes  green- 
ish-stained with  age.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  soon 
hollow,  often  spotted  with  red,  colored  like  the  pileus,  sometimes  hairy 
at  the  base.  Spores  subglobose,  9-10/1*.  Milk  dark-red. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.     Stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng>  3-5  lmes  thick. 

172 


Leucosporae 

Damp  or  mossy  ground  in  woods  and  swamps.     July  and  August.       Lactarius. 

At  once  known  by  the  peculiar  dark-red  or  purplish  hue  of  the  milk, 
which  color  also  appears  in  the  spots  of  the  stem  and  in  a  more  subdued 
tone  in  the  whole  plant.  The  color  of  the  pileus,  gills  and  stem  is 
modified  by  grayish  and  yellowish  hues.  In  age  and  dryness  the  zones 
are  less  clear,  and  dried  specimens  can  scarcely  be  distinguished  from 
L.  deliciosus.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species. 

III. — RUSSULARIA. 
*  VlSClDl.     Pileus  viscid. 

L.  pal'lidus  Fr. — pale.  Pileus  3-6  in.  broad,  flesh-color  or  clay- 
color  to  pallid,  somewhat  tan,  fleshy,  umbilicato-convex,  depressed, 
obtuse,  margin  broadly  and  for  a  long  time  involute,  smooth,  gluey, 
zoneless.  Flesh  pallid.  Stem  2  in.  and  more  long,  about  X  in.  thick, 
somewhat  equal,  stuffed  then  hollow,  even,  smooth,  of  the  same  color 
as  the  pileus.  Gills  somewhat  decurrent,  arcuate,  rather  broad,  i>£— 2 
lines  and  more;  somewhat  thin,  crowded,  somewhat  branched,  whitish 
at  length  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus.  Milk  white,  unchangeable. 
Fries. 

Taste  somewhat  mild.  Stature  that  of  L.  deliciosus,  but  more  lax  in 
texture  and  always  pallid.  There  is  a  variety  with  the  pileus  inclining 
to  dingy-brown.  Stevenson. 

Mixed  woods.      September  to  October. 

Spores  echinulate,  almost  round,  8/u.  W.  G.S.;  J—\  IP-  Coo^e/g—iox^-Sp- 
Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Frost;  Minnesota, 
Johnson;  Rhode  Island,  Bennett. 

Edible.      Cooke. 

L.  quie'tus  Fr. — calm,  mild.  Pileus  3  in.  broad,  fleshy,  depressed, 
obtuse,  margin  deflexed,  smooth,  at  first  viscid,  somewhat  cinnamon, 
flesh-color,  disk  darker,  somewhat  zoned,  soon  dry,  somewhat  silky, 
opaque,  becoming  pale.  Flesh  white  then  reddish.  Stem  2-3  in.  long, 
K  in.  and  more  thick,  stuffed,  spongy,  smooth,  reddish,  at  length 
beautifully  rust-color.  Gills  adnato-decurrent,  somewhat  forked  at  the 

173 


Agaricaceae 

Lactarius.  base,  i%—2  lines  broad,  white  then  soon  brick-red.     Milk  white,  un- 
changeable, sivcet.    Fries. 

In  woods.      August  to  November.      Stevenson. 
Spores  echinulate,  8-iox6-7/A  Massee;  10-121*  Cooke. 
Nova  Scotia,  Somers;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  42. 
Edible.      Cooke.     Eaten  in  France  and  held  in  estimation. 

L.  theio'galllS  Fr.  Gr. — brimstone;  milk.  PileilS  2-5  in.  broad, 
fleshy,  thin,  convex,  then  depressed,  even,  glabrous,  viscid,  tawny- 
reddish.  Lamellae  adnate  or  decurrent,  close,  pallid  or  reddish.  Stem 
1—3  in.  long,  4—10  lines  thick,  stuffed  or  hollow,  even,  colored  like  the 
pileus .  Spores  yellowish ,  inclining  to  pale  flesh-color,  subglobose  ,7.5  -9/u, . 
Milk  white,  changing  to  sulphur-yellow  t  taste  tardily  acrid,  bitterish. 

Woods  and  groves.      Common.     July  to  October. 

Our  plant  does  not  fully  accord  with  the  description  of  the  species  as 
given  by  Fries.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  subglobose,  7-8/u. diameter  Massee;  subglobose,  7.5-9/1  Peck. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  July,  1897;  New 
Jersey,  common  in  mixed  woods.  July  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

L.  theiogalus  possesses  all  the  good  qualities  of  the  hot  milk  species. 
While  I  ate  it  whenever  I  chose  in  West  Virginia,  I  did  not  again  eat  it 
until  1897  at  Mt.  Gretna.  There  several  partook  of  it  and  thought  it 
rather  coarse,  but  of  good  flavor.  It  requires  long  cooking. 

L.  fuligino'sus  Fr. — fuligo,  soot.  PileilS  1-2.5  in-  broad,  firm,  be- 
coming soft,  convex  plane  or  slightly  depressed,  even,  dry,  zoneless, 
dingy  ash-color  or  bnff-gray,  appearing  as  if  covered  with  a  dingy  pru- 
inosity,  the  margin  sometimes  wavy  or  lobed.  Gills  adnate  or  subde- 
current,  subdistant,  whitish  then  yellowish,  becoming  stained  with  pink- 
red  or  salmon-color  where  wounded.  Stem  1—2  in.  long,  3—5  lines  thick, 
equal  or  slightly  tapering  downward,  firm,  stuffed,  colored  like  the 
pileus.  Spores  globose,  yellowish,  7.5-io/u,.  Milk  white,  taste  tardily 
and  sometimes  slightly  acrid. 

Thin  woods  and  open  grassy  places.  Greenbush  and  Sandlake,  N.  Y. 
July  and  August.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

A  form  with  the  pileus  colored  like  that  of  L.  lignyotus,  but  with  the 
gills  much  closer  than  in  that  species,  was  found  in  a  swamp  near  Sevey. 
July.  Peck,  43d  Rep. 

POISONOUS.     Barla  and  Reveil,  Cordier. 

174 


Leucosporge 

L.  fumo'silS  Pk.  Pileus  1.5-2.5  in.  broad,  firm,  convex,  then  ex-  Lactarius. 
panded  and  slightly  depressed  in  the  center,  smooth,  dry,  smoky-brown 
or  sordid-white.  Gills  close,  adnate  or  slightly  rounded  behind,  white, 
then  yellowish.  Stem  3-5  lines  thick,  firm,  short,  smooth,  stuffed, 
generally  tapering  downward.  Spores  distinctly  echinulate,  yellow,  6p- 
in  diameter.  Flesh  and  Milk  white;  taste  at  first  mild,  then  acrid. 

Plant  1.5-2  in.  high. 

Grassy  ground  in  open  woods.      Greenbush.     July. 

The  peculiar  smoky  hue  of  the  pileus  and  yellow  spores  enable  this 
species  to  be  easily  recognized.  The  flesh  when  wounded  slowly 
changes  to  a  dull  pinkish-color.  Related  to  L.  fuliginosus.  Peck,  24th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

**!MPOLITI.     Pileus  downy,  etc. 

L.  ru'ftlS  Fr. — red.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  convex  and  centrally 
depressed,  then  funnel-shaped,  generally  with  a  small  umbo,  glabrous, 
sometimes  slightly  floccose  or  pubescent  when  young,  especially  on  the 
margin,  zoneless,  bay-red  or  brownish-red,  shining.  Grills  narrow  or 
moderately  broad,  sometimes  forked,  close,  subdecurrent,  yellowish  or 
reddish.  Stem  2-4  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick,  nearly  equal,  firm,  stuffed, 
paler  than  or  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  white,  7.6— lOju,.  Milk 
white,  taste  very  acrid. 

Low  woods  and  swamps.      North  Elba.      August.      Rare. 

The  red  Lactarius  is  known  by  its  rather  large  size,  dark-red  pileus 
and  intensely  acrid  taste.  It  has  been  found  but  once  in  our  state.  The 
flesh  is  pinkish  and  the  stem  sometimes  pruinose.  It  is  designated  by 
authors  as  very  poisonous  and  extremely  poisonous.  Cordier  even  says 
that  worms  never  attack  it.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Massachusetts,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  23,  Rep.  38. 

I  have  not  recognized  this  species.  It  is  given  as  markedly 
POISONOUS. 

L.  glycios'mus  Fr.  Gr. — sweet;  Gr. — scent.  Pileus  K-i>*  in. 
broad,  thin,  convex  nearly  plane  or  depressed,  often  with  a  small  umbo 
or  papilla,  minutely  squamulose,  ash-colored,  grayish-brown  or  smoky- 
brown,  sometimes  tinged  with  pink,  the  margin  even  or  slightly  and 
distinctly  striate.  Gills  narrow,  close,  adnate  or  decurrent,  whitish  or 

175 


Agaricacese 

Lactarius.  yellowish.  Stem  Yz—\%  in.  long,  1-3  lines  thick,  equal,  glabrous  or 
obsoletely  pubescent,  stuffed,  rarely  hollow,  whitish  or  colored  like  the 
pileus.  Milk  white,  taste  acrid  and  unpleasant,  sometimes  bitterish, 
odor  aromatic.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Smell  agreeable,  of  melilot,  as  that  of  L.  camphoratus. 

Spores  spheroid,  echinulate,  6-8/u.  K.;  subglobose,  size  variable, 
6-io/u,  Massee. 

The  American  plant,  so  far  as  observed,  does  not  have  the  red  hues 
ascribed  to  the  European. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  T.  7.  Collins;  Scranton,  Pa.,  Dr.  J.  M.  Phillips; 
Chester  county,  Pa.,  September,  1887,  on  ground  in  woods,  Mcllvaine. 

This  small  Lactarius  was  found  on  several  occasions.  Its  odor  is 
attractive,  but  its  taste  is  not.  Cooked  it  is  of  high  flavor,  but  will 
not  be  liked  by  many. 

L.  aqui'flims  Pk. — watery.  Pileus  fragile,  fleshy,  convex  or  ex- 
panded, at  length  centrally  depressed,  dry,  smooth,  or  sometimes 
appearing  as  if  clothed  with  a  minute  appressed  tomentum,  reddish  tan- 
colored,  the  decurved  margin  often  flexuous.  Gills  rather  narrow, 
close,  whitish,  becoming  dull  reddish  yellow.  Stem  more  or  less 
elongated,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  colored  like  the  pileus, 
smooth,  hollow,  the  cavity  irregular  as  if  eroded.  Spores  subglobose, 
rough,  7.6ft.  Flesh  colored  like  the  pileus.  Milk  sparse,  watery. 

Plant  3-8  in.  high.     Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.     Stem  5-10  lines  thick. 

Swamps  and  wet  mossy  places  in  woods.  Sandlake  and  North  Elba. 
August  and  September. 

The  relationship  of  this  plant  is  with  L.  serifluus,  to  which  it  was 
formerly  referred,  but  from  which  I  am  now  satisfied  it  is  distinct.  The 
hollow  stem  is  a  constant  character  in  our  plant,  and  affords  a  ready 
mark  of  distinction.  The  plant,  though  large,  is  very  fragile,  and 
breaks  easily.  The  taste  is  mild  or  but  slightly  acrid.  Sometimes  there 
is  an  obscure  zonation  on  the  pileus,  which,  in  large  specimens,  is  apt 
to  be  irregular  and  much  worm-eaten.  The  milk  looks  like  little  drops 
of  water  when  first  issuing  from  a  wound,  but  it  becomes  a  little  less 
clear  on  exposure  to  the  atmosphere.  The  decided  but  agreeable  odor 
of  the  dried  specimens  persists  a  long  time.  Peck,  28th  Rep. 

This  plant  is  sometimes  cespitose.  The  pileus  when  dry  is  tawny- 
gray  and  scaly  or  cracked  scaly.  The  margin  may  be  even  or  coarsely 

176 


Leucosporee 

sulcate-striate.  The  flesh  is  grayish  or  reddish-gray.  The  color  of  the  Lactarins. 
lamellae  varies  from  creamy-white  to  tawny-yellow.  The  stem  often  has 
a  conspicuous  white  myceloid  tomentum  at  its  base.  I  have  never 
found  this  plant  with  a  white  or  milky  juice,  and  therefore  I  am  dis- 
posed to  regard  it  not  as  a  variety  of  L.  helvus,  but  as  a  distinct  species. 
Its  mild  taste  and  agreeable  odor  suggested  a  trial  of  its  edible  qualities. 
It  is  harmless,  but  the  lack  of  flavor  induces  me  to  omit  it  from  the  list 
of  edible  species.  Peck,  5Oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Var.  brevis simus  Pk.  Pileus  1—1.5  m-  broad,  grayish-buff.  Gills 
crowded,  adnate,  yellowish  or  cream-color.  Stem  very  short,  6—8  lines 
long. 

Black  mucky  soil  in  roads  in  woods.  Township  24,  Franklin  county. 
September. 

Plant  fragrant ;  sometimes  cespitose.    Peck,  5  ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Angora,  West  Philadelphia,  in  moist  oak  woods.  August,  1897, 
Philadelphia  Myc.  Center. 

Flesh  rather  hard  when  cooked,  and  insipid.  Good  as  an  absorbent 
or  in  emergency. 

L.  lignyo'tllS  Fr. — lignum,  wood.  Pileus  1-4  in.  broad,  broadly 
convex  plane  or  slightly  depressed,  dry,  with  or  without  a  small  umbo, 
generally  rugose-wrinkled,  dark-brown,  appearing  sub  pulverulent  or  as 
if  suffused  with  a  dingy  pruinosity ,  the  margin  sometimes  crenately 
lobed  and  distinctly  plicate.  Gills  moderately  close  or  subdistant,  ad- 
nate, white  or  yellowish,  slowly  changing  to  pinkish-red  or  salmon  color 
where  wounded.  Stem  1-3  in.  long,  2-6  lines  thick,  equal  or  abruptly 
narrowed  at  the  apex,  even,  glabrous,  stuffed,  colored  like  the  pileus, 
sometimes  plicate  at  the  top.  Milk  white,  taste  mild  or  tardily  and 
slightly  acrid. 

Var.  tenuipes.  Pileus  about  I  in.  broad.  Stem  slender,  2-3  in. 
long  and  about  2  lines  thick. 

Wet  or  mossy  ground  in  woods  and  swamps.  Adirondack  mountains 
and  Sandlake.  July  and  August.  Not  rare  in  hilly  and  mountainous 
districts.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  globose,  yellowish,  9-11.3^  Peck;  pale  ochraceous,  subglo- 
bose,  minutely  echinulate,  9-10/1,  diameter  Massee. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  1881-1885;   Eagle's  Mere;   Mt.   Gretna, 

12  I77 


Agaricaceae 

Lactarius.  Pa.  Solitary  and  gregarious,  moist  woods  and  wooded  places.  July 
to  September.  Mcllvaine. 

In  my  long  experience  with  the  plant  I  have  not  seen  any  change  of 
color,  save  that,  like  the  white  milk  of  other  species,  it  darkens  slightly 
to  a  cream  color.  I  have  found  it  distinctly  umbilicate  and  quite  um- 
bonate  in  the  same  patch. 

L.  lignyotus  is  one  of  the  best  of  Lactarii  and  quite  equal  to  L. 
volemus. 

L.  COrru'gis  Pk. — having  wrinkles  or  folds.  Pileus  3~5  in.  broad, 
firm,  convex,  then  nearly  plane  or  centrally  depressed,  rugose  reticulated, 
covered  with  a  velvety  pruinosity  or  pubescence,  dark  reddish-brown  or 
cliestnut-color,  fading  with  age  to  tawny-brown.  Gills  close,  dark 
cream-color  or  subcinnamon,  becoming  paler  when  old,  sordid  or  brown- 
ish where  bruised  or  wounded.  Stem  3—5  in.  long,  6—12  lines  thick, 
equal,  solid,  glabrous  or  merely  pruinose,  paler  than  but  similar  in  color 
to  the  pileus.  Spores  subglobose,  10—13^1.  Milk  copious,  white,  taste 
mild. 

Thin  woods.  Sandlake,  Gansevoort  and  Brewerton,  N.  Y.  August 
and  September. 

This  curious  Lactarius  is  related  to  L.  volemus,  from  which  it  may 
be  separated  by  its  darker  colors  and  its  corrugated  pileus.  The  flexu- 
ous  reticulated  rugae  present  an  appearance  similar  to  that  of  the 
hymenium  of  a  Merulius.  The  pileus  is  everywhere  pruinose-pubescent 
and  the  gills  bear  numerous  spine-like  or  acicular  cystidia  or  spicules, 
4— 5/tx  long.  These  are  so  numerous  on  and  near  the  edges  of  the  gills 
that  they  give  them  a  pubescent  appearance.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

I  found  many  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  up  to  6K  in.  in  diameter.  Flesh 
not  so  firm  as  L.  volemus.  Stem  equal,  rugulose,  flattened  in  old 
specimens.  Milk  very  slightly  acrid. 

Better  in  taste  and  quality  than  L.  volemus. 

L.  lute'olllS  Pk. — yellowish.  PileilS  2-3  in.  broad,  fleshy,  rather 
thin,  convex  or  nearly  plane,  commonly  umbilicately  depressed  in  the 
center  and  somewhat  rugulose,  pruinose  or  subglabrous,  buff-color. 
Flesh  white,  taste  mild.  Milk  copious,  flowing  easily,  white  or  whitish. 
Gills  close,  nearly  plane,  adnate  or  slightly  rounded  behind,  whitish, 

178 


Leucosporaa 

becoming  brownish  where  wounded.      Stem   I-I-5  m-  l°ng.  3~5  nnes  Lactanus. 
thick,  short,  equal  or  tapering  downward,  solid,  but  somewhat  spongy 
within,  colored  like  the  pileus.      Spores  globose,  7.6/x.  broad. 

Dry  woods.      East  Milton,  Mass.     August.      H '.   Webster. 

This  species  is  related  to  Lactarius  volemus  and  L.  hygrophoroides, 
but  its  smaller  size  and  short  stem  will  distinguish  it  from  the  former 
and  its  close  gills  from  the  latter.  Its  paler  buff-color  will  separate  it 
from  both.  Some  specimens  have  a  narrow  encircling  furrow  or  de- 
pressed zone  near  the  margin  and  a  slightly  darker  shade  of  color  on 
the  margin.  The  milk  constitutes  a  remarkable  feature  of  the  species. 
According  to  the  notes  of  the  collector  it  is  exceedingly  copious,  rather 
sticky,  serous  in  character  with  white  particles  in  suspension.  It  flows 
from  many  points  as  soon  as  the  plant  is  disturbed  and  it  stains  the  gills. 
It  is  impossible  to  collect  an  unstained  specimen,  so  free  is  the  flow  of 
the  milk.  He,  Mr.  Webster,  says:  "I  have  never  succeeded  in  pick- 
ing a  specimen  so  quietly  as  to  prevent  an  instant  and  copious  flow  of 
its  milk."  Torrey  Bull.,  Vol.  23,  No.  10,  1896. 

Angora,  West  Philadelphia,  August,  1897.  I*1  oak  woods.  August, 
September.  Mcllvaine. 

Quite  frequent  there.  My  attention  was  directed  to  it  by  the  "nar- 
row encircling  furrow  or  depressed  zone  near  the  margin." 

It  is  of  like  quality  to  L.  volemus. 

L.  Gcerar'dii  Pk.  Pileus  1.5-4  m-  broad,  broadly  convex  plane  or 
slightly  depressed,  dry,  generally  rugose-wrinkled,  with  or  without  a 
small  umbo  or  papilla,  dingy-brown,  the  thin  spreading  margin  some- 
times flexuous  lobed  or  irregular.  Gills  distant,  adnate  or  decurrent, 
wlute  or  whitish,  the  interspaces  generally  uneven.  Stem  1—2  in.  long, 
3—6  lines  thick,  subequal,  stuffed  or  hollow,  colored  like  the  pileus. 
Spores  globose,  white,  9-1 1.3^.  Milk  white,  unchangeable,  taste  mild. 

W7oods  and  open  places.  Poughkeepsie,  W.  R.  Gerard.  Green- 
bush,  Sandlake  and  Croghan,  N.  Y.  July  to  September. 

This  Lactarius  closely  resembles  the  Sooty  lactarius  in  color,  but  dif- 
fers from  it  in  its  more  distant  gills,  white  spores  and  constantly  mild 
taste.  Wounds  of  the  flesh  and  gills  do  not  become  pinkish-red  as  in 
that  plant.  From  L.  hygrophoroides  its  darker  color,  hollow  stem  and 
more  globose  rougher  spores  separate  it.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State 
Bot. 

179 


Agaricaceee 


Lactarius.       In  the  color  of  the  pileus  and  stem  this  species  is  like  the  larger  forms 
of  L.  fuliginosus.     Peck,  26th  Rep. 
Edible.     Boston  Myc.  Club  Bull. 

***  GLABRA'TI.     Pileus  smooth. 

L.  VOle'muS  Fr. — volema  pirn,  a  kind  of  large  pear.  (Plate  XLI, 
fig-  4,  P-  1 60.)  Pileus  2-5  in.  broad,  firm,  convex,  nearly  plane  or 
centrally  depressed,  rarely  funnel-shaped,  sometimes  with  a  small  umbo, 
generally  even,  glabrous,  dry,  golden-tawny  or  brownish-orange,  some- 
times darker  in  the  center,  often  becoming  rimose-areolate.  Gills  close, 
adnate  or  subdecurrent,  white  or  yellowish,  becoming  sordid  or  brown- 
ish where  bruised  or  wounded.  Stem  1-4  in.  long,  4-10  lines  thick, 
subequal,  variable  in  length,  firm,  solid,  glabrous  or  merely  pruinose, 
colored  like  the  pileus,  sometimes  a  little  paler.  Milk  copious,  white, 
taste  mild,  flat. 

Var.  subrugo'sus.  Pileus  rugose-reticulated  on  the  margin.  Peck, 
38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  globose,  white,  9-11.3/4  Peck;  5-6>  diameter  Massee. 

Very  delicious  raw  and  celebrated  from  early  times.     Fries. 

Common  over  the  United  States,  well  known  everywhere  and  dis- 
tinguished for  its  edible  qualities.  It  is  crisp  and  unless  carefully  cooked 
is  hard  and  granular.  It  should  have  long,  slow  cooking,  though  it 
may  be  roasted  or  fried. 

L.  hygrophoroi'des  B.  and  C. — resembling  Hygrophorus.  Pileus 
(Plate  XLII.)  ^r^^ 1-4  in.  broad,  firm,  convex  or  near- 

ly plane,  umbilicate  or  slightly  de- 
pressed, rarely  funnel-shaped,  gla- 
brous or  sometimes  with   a  minute 
velvety  pubescence  or  tomentum, 
dry,  sometimes  rugose-wrinkled  and 
often    becoming    cracked    in  areas, 
yellowish-tawny  or  brownish-orange. 
Gills   distant,  adnate   or  subdecur- 
rent, white  or  cream-color,   the  interspaces  uneven  or  venose.      Stem 
.5-1  in.  long,  4-8  lines  thick,  short,  equal  or  tapering  downward,  solid, 
glabrous  or  merely  pruinose,  colored  like  the  pileus.      Spores  subglo- 

180 


LACTARIUS  HYGROPHOROIDES. 


Leucosporee 

bose  or  broadly  elliptical,  nearly  smooth,  9-11.3^.     Milk  white,  taste  Lactarius. 
mild. 

Grassy  ground  and  borders  of  woods.  Albany,  Greenbush  and  Sand- 
lake.  July  and  August. 

This  plant  has  almost  exactly  the  color  of  L.  volemus,  but  differs 
from  it  in  its  distant  gills,  short  stem,  less  copious  milk  and  less  globose 
spores.  Its  flesh  is  white,  with  a  thickness  about  equal  to  the  breadth 
of  the  gills.  It  is  probably  edible,  but  has  not  yet  been  tested.  The 
typical  L.  hygrophoroides  is  described  as  having  the  pileus  yellowish- 
red  and  pulverulent,  and  the  gills  luteous.  It  is  also  represented  as  a 
small  plant;  but  our  specimens,  while  not  fully  agreeing  with  this  de- 
scription, approach  so  closely  to  it  in  some  of  their  forms  that  they 
doubtless  belong  to  the  same  species.  We  have  therefore  extended  the 
description  so  that  it  may  include  our  plant.  In  wet  weather  the  pileus 
sometimes  becomes  funnel-form  by  the  elevation  of  the  margin.  Peck, 
38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  1897,  grassy  grounds  and  borders  of  woods. 
Mixed,  moist  woods  and  grassy  borders.  July  to  September.  Me- 
Ilvaine. 

Pileus  up  to  4  in.  across.  Stem  1-2 %  in.,  tapering,  equal  or  taper- 
ing downward.  When  growing  in  woods  the  stem  is  longer  than  when 
growing  on  borders. 

Its  edible  qualities  are  excellent. 

L.  mitis'simus  Fr. — mitis,  mild.  Pileus  1-3  in.  broad,  golden-tawny, 
zoneless,  fleshy,  thin,  somewhat  rigid,  convex,  papillate,  depressed, 
papilla  vanishing,  even,  smooth,  somewhat  slippery  when  moist.  Flesh 
pallid.  Stem  elongated,  1-3  in.  long,  K— /£  in.  thick,  stuffed,  then 
hollow,  even,  smooth,  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus.  Gills  adnato- 
decurrent,  somewhat  arcuate,  then  tense  and  straight,  i-i  %  lines  and 
more  broad,  thin,  crowded,  a  little  paler  than  the  pileus,  most  frequently 
stained  with  minute  red  spots.  Milk  white,  mild,  plentiful. 

Thin;  very  much  allied  to  L.  subdulcis,  but  distinguished  by  the 
taste  being  mild,  then  somewhat  bitterish,  and  especially  by  the  bright, 
golden-tawny,  resplendent  color  of  the  pileus  and  stem.  Fries. 

In  mixed  and  pine  woods.     August  to  November.     Stevenson. 

Spores  6-8x5-6)".  Massee;  IO/A  Cooke;  spheroid,  echinulate,  6-7/4 
C.B.P. 

181 


Agaricaceae 


(Plate  XLIII.) 


Lactarius.       California,  H  '  .  and  M  . 

Edible.      Cooke.     Eaten  on  the  continent. 

L.  subdul'cis  Fr.  —  sub;  dulcis,  sweet.     Pileus  .5-2  in.  broad,  thin, 

convex,  then  plane  or  slightly  funnel- 
shaped,  with  or  without  a  small  umbo 
or  papilla,  glabrous,  even,  zoneless, 
moist  or  dry,  tawny-red,  cinnamon- 
red  or  brownish-red,  the  margin 
sometimes  wavy  or  flexuous.  Gills 
rather  narrow,  thin,  close,  whitish, 
sometimes  tinged  with  red.  Stem 
1—2.5  in.  long,  i—  3  lines  thick,  equal 
or  slightly  tapering  upward,  slender, 
glabrous,  sometimes  villous  at  the 


w 

LACTARIUS  SUBDULCIS. 


base,  stuffed  or  hollow,  paler  than  or  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores 
7.6—  9/A.  Milk  white,  taste  mild  or  tardily  and  slightly  acrid,  sometimes 
woody  or  bitterish  and  unpleasant.  Flesh  whitish,  pinkish  or  reddish 
gray,  odor  none. 

Fields,  copses,  woods,  swamps  and  wet  places.  July  to  October. 
Very  common. 

This  species  grows  in  almost  every  variety  of  soil  and  locality.  It 
may  be  found  in  showery  weather  on  dry,  rocky  soil,  on  bare  ground 
or  among  mosses  or  fallen  leaves.  In  drier  weather  it  is  still  plentiful 
in  swamps  and  wet,  shaded  places,  and  in  sphagnous  marshes.  It  some- 
times grows  on  decaying  wood.  It  is  also  as  variable  as  it  is  common. 
Gillet  has  described  the  following  varieties  : 

Var.  cinnamo  'metis  .  Pileus  cinnamon-red,  sub-shining.  Stem  stuffed, 
then  hollow;  taste  mild,  becoming  slightly  acrid  or  bitter. 

Var.  ru'fus.  Pileus  dull  chestnut-red;  becoming  more  concave. 
Stem  spongy;  taste  mild. 

Var.  ba'dius.  Pileus  bay-red,  shining  as  if  varnished,  with  an  obtuse 
disk  and  an  inflexed,  elegantly  crenulate  margin.  Stem  very  glabrous, 
hollow. 

The  first  and  second  varieties  have  occurred  within  our  limits.  The 
first  also  has  the  stem  elastic  and  furnished  with  a  whitish  or  grayish 
tomentum  or  strigose  villosity  at  the  base,  when  growing  among  moss 
in  swamps.  A  form  occurred  in  Sandlake,  in  which  some  of  the  speci- 

182 


Leucosporae 

mens  were  proliferous.  The  umbo  had  developed  into  a  minute  pileus.  Lactarius. 
With  us  the  prevailing  color  of  the  pileus  is  yellowish-red  or  cinnamon- 
red.  Sometimes  the  color  is  almost  the  same  as  that  of  L.  volemus 
and  L.  hygrophoroides,  and  again  it  is  a  tan-color  or  a  bay-red,  as  in 
L.  camphoratus,  from  which  such  specimens  are  scarcely  separable,  ex- 
cept by  their  lack  of  odor.  In  young  plants  the  pileus  usually  has  a 
moist  appearance,  which  is  sometimes  retained  in  maturity.  Cordier 
pronounces  the  species  edible,  and  says  that  he  has  tested  it  several 
times  without  inconvenience.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  ion  Cooke;  //A  W.G.S. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  1881-1885;  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey, 
everywhere  on  moist  ground.  July  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

The  description  of  Fries  as  enlarged  and  modified  by  Professor  Peck, 
together  with  that  of  the  varieties  placed  to  the  credit  of  the  species  by 
Gillet,  are  given  above  in  full.  The  species  with  its  ascribed  varieties 
is  common  and  well  known.  Var.  ba  dins  occurs  in  West  Virginia  and 
Pennsylvania.  They  are  all  edible  and  vary  but  little  in  quality. 
L.  subdulcis  requires  long  cooking. 

L.  muta'bilis  Pk. — changeable.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  thin,  convex 
or  nearly  plane,  zonate  when  moist,  reddish-brown,  the  disk  and  zones 
darker,  zoneless  when  dry,  flesh  colored  like  the  pileus.  Milk  sparse, 
white,  taste  mild.  Gills  narrow,  close,  adnate,  whitish,  with  a  yellow- 
ish or  cream-colored  tint  when  old.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick, 
equal  or  tapering  upward,  stuffed  or  spongy  within,  glabrous,  colored 
like  the  pileus.  Spores  subglobose,  rough,  7 .6p-  broad. 

Low,  damp  places.  Selkirk  and  Yaphank,  N.  Y.  June  and  Sep- 
tember. 

The  species  is  allied  to  L.  subdulcis,  from  which  the  larger  size  and 
zonate  pileus  separate  it.  The  zones  disappear  in  the  dry  plant,  and 
this  change  in  the  marking  of  the  pileus  suggests  the  specific  name. 
They  appear  to  be  formed  by  concentric  series  of  more  or  less  confluent 
spots  and  are  suggestive  of  such  species  as  L.  deliciosus  and  L.  subpur- 
pureus.  Peck,  43d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania.  Solitary  but  frequent.  In  moist  woods 
and  margins  of  woods.  June  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

1*3 


Agaricaceae 

Lactarius.       I  have  been  familiar  with  and  eaten  this  plant  since  1882,  but  thought 
it  might  be  a  variety  of  L.  deliciosus,  with  light-colored  milk. 
L.  mutabilis  is  an  excellent  species,  equal  to  any  Lactarius. 


L.  camphora'tus  Fr.  —  camphor.  Pileus  1-2  in.  across, 
red,  somewhat  zoned,  sometimes  zoneless,  fleshy,  thin,  depressed,  dry, 
smooth.  Stem  short,  1-2  in.,  stuffed,  somewhat  undulated,  of  the  same 
color  as  the  pileus.  Gills  adnate,  crowded,  yellowish-brick-color.  Milk 
mild,  white,  odor  agreeable,  spicy.  Fries. 

Strong  smelling.     So  like  L.  subdulcis  that  it  can  be  distinguished 
safely  only  by  its  odor  of  melilot  when  dried.      Stevenson. 

Pileus  .5-1.5  in.  broad.     Stem  1-2  in.  long,  2-3  lines.     Peck,  38th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  spherical,   echinulate,  6-7/1*  Q.  ;   subglobose,   8-9/t  Massee  ; 
7.6-9/A  Peck. 

Taste  and  smell  not  of  camphor,  but  of  melilot. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  South  Carolina,  Ravenel;  Wisconsin,  Bundy; 
New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  23,  Mon.  38th  Rep. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  July  to  October,  in  moist  places.    Mixed 
woods,  etc.     Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Gillet. 

Its  mild  taste  distinguishes  it  at  once  from  L.  rufus. 

It  has  high  but  pleasant  flavor.     If  the  flavor  is  too  evident  to  suit 
some  tastes,  it  is  well  to  mix  milder  species  with  it. 


184 


PLATE  XLIV. 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Briscoe  —  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


FIG. 

1.  RUSSULA  CYANOXANTHA, 

2.  RUSSULA  EMETICA, 
3     RUSSULA  FLAVIDA, 
4.    RUSSULA  SORDIDA, 


PAGE.       FIG. 


198 
201 
197 
190 


5.  RUSSULA  ROSEIPES, 

6.  RUSSULA  VIBESCENS. 

7.  RUSSULA  PUELLARIS, 


PAGE. 

209 
194 
208 


Leucosporae 


RUS'SULA  Pers. 
Reddish. 

Pileus   regular,    rigid,    usually  becoming  more  or    less    depressed.  Russuia. 
Flesh  of  the  pileus  descending  into  (Plate  XLV.) 

the  gills  forming  a  cellular  trama. 
Veil  and  consequently  the  ring  ab- 
sent. Stem  smooth,  stout,  rigid, 
brittle,  spongy  within.  Gills  rigid, 
fragile,  edge  thin  and  acute.  Spores 
rounded,  often  echinulate,  white  or 
yellowish.  On  the  ground. 

Closely  allied  to  Lactarius  but 
separated  by  the  absence  of  milk. 
The  gills  of  some  species  exude  wa- 
tery drops  in  moist  weather.  Owing 

to  the  similarity  of  form  and  the  vari-  RUSSULA 

able  coloring  many  species  are  diffi- 
cult to  determine ;    all  the  characters  should  be   carefully  noted,  not 
omitting  that  of  the  taste. 

Russulae  are  readily  distinguished  by  the  stout,  short,  brittle  stem  and 
the  fragility  of  the  pileus  and  gills.  They  especially  love  open  woods 
and  appear  during  the  summer  and  fall  months,  some  being  found  until 
sharp  frosts  occur. 

It  has  been  claimed  by  mushroom  growers,  until  within  a  few  years, 
that  the  spores  of  the  mushroom  have  to  pass  through  the  digestive 
apparatus  of  the  horse  before  they  will  germinate.  It  has  been  conclu- 
sively demonstrated  that  such  a  transmission  is  not  a  necessity.  It  was 
for  a  long  time  my  opinion — following  the  opinion  of  others — that  such 
assistance  was  necessary.  In  my  many  efforts  to  propagate  valuable 
food  species  of  the  wild  toadstools  I  endeavored  to  find  the  method  by 
which  the  spores  were  disseminated,  and  through  what  digestive  medium 
they  passed — either  of  insect  or  animal — before  germination.  Noticing 
that  the  Russulas  were  fed  upon  by  a  small  black  beetle,  I  planted  in 
suitable  places,  not  the  toadstools,  but  the  beetles  found  upon  them. 
The  result  was  that  in  several  instances  I  grew  the  Russulae.  My 
experiments,  while  interesting,  are  not  conclusive,  because  I  later  found 
that  the  same  results  could  be  obtained  from  the  toadstool  itself  when 

185 


Agaricaceee 

Bussuia.  planted  under  its  own  natural  life  conditions.      It  is  certain  that  beetles 
can  not  be  raised  by  planting  Russulae. 

The  beetles  known  as  tumble-bugs — canthon  laevis — deposit  eggs  in 
the  center  of  balls  made  of  animal  droppings ;  dig  a  hole  in  the  ground 
and  drop  them  into  it.  These  droppings  frequently  contain  the  spores 
of  the  meadow  mushroom.  Thus  planted  with  the  proper  surrounding 
of  manure,  and  at  the  proper  depth,  the  spores  germinate,  spread 
mycelium,  and  a  crop  of  mushrooms  is  the  result.  The  beetle  becomes 
a  horticulturist.  No  wonder  the  Egyptians,  thousands  of  years  ago, 
made  it — the  scarabeus — their  sacred  emblem,  and  that, 'today,  the 
fleur-de-lis  of  France,  so  the  Rosicrucians  say,  perpetuates  its  glorious 
worth  and  calling. 

Most  Russulae  are  sweet  and  nutty  to  the  taste ;  some  are  as  hot  as 
the  fiercest  of  cayenne,  but  this  they  lose  upon  cooking.  To  this  genus 
authors  have  done  especial  injustice ;  there  is  not  a  single  species  among 
them  known  to  be  poisonous,  and,  where  they  are  not  too  strong  of 
cherry  bark  and  other  highly  flavored  substances,  they  are  all  edible; 
most  of  them  are  favorites.  Where  they  present  no  objectionable  ap- 
pearance or  taste,  their  caps  make  most  palatable  dishes  when  stewed, 
baked,  roasted  or  escalloped.  The  time  of  cooking  should  be  deter- 
mined by  the  consistency  of  the  variety;  some  will  cook  in  five  minutes, 
others  not  under  thirty.  Salt,  butter  and  pepper  are  the  only  neces- 
saries as  seasoning. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

I. — COMPACTS  (compingo,  to  put  together;  compact).    Page  187. 

Pileus  fleshy  throughout,  hence  the  margin  is  at  first  bent  inward  and 
always  without  striae,  without  a  distinct  gluey  pellicle  (in  consequence 
of  which  the  color  is  not  variable,  but  only  changes  with  age  and  the 
state  of  the  atmosphere).  Flesh  compact,  firm.  Stem  solid,  fleshy. 
Gills  unequal. 

II. — FURCATE  (furca,  a  fork.    With  forked  gills).     Page  191. 

Pileus  compact,  firm,  covered  with  a  thin,  closely  adnate  pellicle, 
which  at  length  disappears,  margin  abruptly  thin,  at  first  inflexed,  then 
spreading,  acute,  even.  Stem  at  first  compact,  at  length  spongy-soft 
within.  Gills  somewhat  forked,  with  a  few  shorter  ones  intermixed, 
commonly  attenuated  at  both  ends,  thin  and  normally  narrow. 

1 86 


Leucosporse 

III. — RlGlD/E  (rigidus,  rigid).      Page  194. 

Pileus  without  a  viscid  pellicle,  absolutely  dry,  rigid,  the  cuticle  com-  Eussuia. 
monly  breaking  up  into  flocci  or  granules.  Flesh  thick,  compact,  firm, 
vanishing  away  short  of  the  margin  wliich  is  straight  (never  involute), 
soon  spreading,  and  always  without  strice.  Stem  solid,  at  first  hard, 
then  softer  and  spongy.  Gills,  a  few  dimidiate,  others  divided,  rigid, 
dilated  in  front  and  winning  out  with  a  very  broad,  rounded  apex , 
whence  the  margin  of  the  pileus  becomes  obtuse  and  is  not  inflexed. 
Exceedingly  handsome,  but  rather  rare. 

IV. — HETEROPHYLL/E  (R.  heterophylla,  the  typical  species 
of  the  section).     Page  198. 

Pileus  fleshy,  firm,  with  a  thin  margin  which  is  at  first  inflexed,  then 
expanded  and  striate,  covered  with  a  thin  adnate  pellicle.  The  gills 
consist  of  many  shorter  ones  mixed  with  longer  ones,  along  with  others 
which  are  forked.  Stem  solid,  stout,  spongy  within 

V. — FRAGILES   (fragilis,  fragile  or  brittle).     Page  2OI. 

Pileus  more  or  less  fleshy,  rigid-fragile,  covered  with  a  pellicle  which 
is  always  continuous,  and  in  wet  weather  viscid  and  somewhat  separ- 
able; margin  membranaceous,  at  first  convergent  and  not  involute,  in 
full-grown  plants  commonly  sulcate  and  tubercular.  Flesh  commonly 
floccose,  lax,  friable.  Stem  spongy,  at  length  wholly  soft  and  hollow. 
Gills  almost  all  equal,  simple,  broadening  in  front,  free  in  the  pileus 
when  closed.  Several  doubtful  forms  occur.  R.  Integra  is  specially  fal- 
lacious from  the  variety  of  its  colors. 

*  Gills  and  spores  white. 

*  Gills   and   spores  white,   then    light-yellowish    or    bright   lemon- 
yellowish. 

**  Gills  and  spores  ochraceous. 

COMPAC'T^E. 

R.  ni'gricans  Bull. — nigrico,  to  be  blackish.  Pileus  2-4  in.  and 
more  broad,  olivaceous-fuliginous,  at  length  black,  fleshy  to  the  margin 
which  is  at  first  bent  inwards,  convex  then  flattened,  umbilicato-de- 
pressed,  when  young  and  moist  slightly  viscid  and  even  (without  a 
separable  pellicle),  at  length  cracked  in  scales.  Flesh  firm,  white, 

187 


Agaricaceae 

Russuia.  when  broken  becoming  red  on  exposure  to  the  air.  Stem  I  in.  thick, 
persistently  solid,  equal,  pallid  when  young,  at  length  black.  Gills 
rounded  behind,  slightly  adnexed,  thick,  distant,  unequal,  paler,  red- 
dening when  touched.  Fries.. 

Compact,  obese,  inodorous,  within  and  without  at  length  wholly  black, 
in  which  it  differs  from  all  others.  The  flesh  becomes  red  when  broken 
because  it  is  saturated  with  red  juice,  although  it  does  not  exude  milk. 
Sometimes  a  very  few  of  the  gills  are  dimidiate. 

Irr  woods.      Common.     June  to  November.     Stevenson. 

Var.  albdnigra  Krombh. — albo,  white;  negro,  to  be  black.  Pileus 
fleshy,  convexo-plane,  depressed  in  the  middle,  at  length  funnel-shaped, 
viscid,  whitish,  smoky  about  the  margin.  Flesh  white,  turning  black 
when  broken.  Stem  solid,  stout,  dusky,  becoming  blackened.  Gills 
decurrent,  crowded,  unequal,  dusky-whitish.  In  grassy  places. 

Spores  papillose,  8j«,  W.G.S.;  subglobose,  rough,  8-9/u.  Massee. 

New  York.  Our  specimens  agree  with  the  description  in  every  re- 
spect, except  that  the  gills  are  not  distant.  Peck,  32d  Rep. 

Mild  when  raw,  but  with  a  heavy  woody  taste. 

Cooked  it  makes  a  good  dish,  but  does  not  equal  most  Russule. 

K.  purpuri'na  Quel.  and  Schulz. — purple.  (Plate  XLV#.)  Pileus 
fleshy,  margin  acute,  subglobose,  then  plane,  at  length  depressed  in 
the  center,  slightly  viscid  in  very  wet  weather,  not  striate,  often  split, 
pellicle  separable,  rosy-pink,  paling  even  to  light  yellow.  Gills  crowded 
in  youth,  afterward  subdistant,  white,  in  age  yellowish,  reaching  the 
stem,  2-4  lines  broad  in  front,  not  greatly  narrowed  behind,  almost 
equal,  not  forked.  Stem  spongy,  stuffed,  very  variable,  cylindrical, 
attenuated  above  and  below  the  middle,  rosy-pink  becoming  paler 
(rarely  white)  toward  the  base,  color  obscure  in  age.  Flesh  fragile, 
white,  reddish  under  the  skin;  odor  slight,  taste  mild.  Spores  white, 
globose,  sometimes  sub-elliptical,  4-8/x  long,  minutely  warted. 

Pileus  1.5-2.5  in.  across.      Stem  up  to  .4  in.  thick,   1.2   in.  long. 

"This  is  a  beautiful  and  very  distinct  species  easily  known  by  its  red 
stem,  mild  taste  and  white  spores."  Peck,  426  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

R.  adus'ta  Fr. — aduro,  to  scorch.  Pileus  pallid  or  whitish,  grayish- 
sooty,  equally  fleshy,  compact,  depressed  then  somewhat  infundibuliform, 
margin  at  first  inflexed,  smooth,  then  erect,  without  striae.  Flesh 

1 88 


PLATE  XLVA. 


C/J 

c 


c 

70 

•u 
c 

2 
z 


Leucosporee 


unchangeable.      Stem  solid,   obese,  of  the  same   color   as   the  pileus.  Kussuia. 
Gills  adnate  then  decurrent,  thin,  crowded,  unequal,  white  then  dingy, 
not  reddening  when  touched.     Fries. 

Spores  subglobose,  almost  smooth,  8-9/4  Massee. 

In  pine  and  mixed  woods. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  in  pine  woods  and  in  mixed 
woods.      August  to  frost.     Mcllvaine. 

R.  adusta  is  solitary  but  often  in  small  troops.    It  is  easily  recognized 
by  the  brownish  blotches  upon  its  cap,  and  the  crowding  of  its  thin  gills. 

The  solid  flesh  must  be  well  cooked.      It  is  then  of  good  flavor. 

R.  bre'vipes    Pk. — drevis,    short;    pes,    a    foot.       Pileus    3-5    in. 

broad,  at  first  convex  and  umbilicate,  (Plate  XLV£.) 

then  infundibuliform,  dry,  glabrous 
or  slightly  villose  on  the  margin, 
white,  sometimes  varied  with  red- 
dish-brown stains.  Flesh  whitish, 
taste  mild,  slowly  becoming  slightly 
acrid.  Lamellae  thin,  close,  adnate 
or  slightly  rounded  behind ;  white. 
Stem  solid,  white. 

Spores  globose,  verruculose,    10- 

131*. 

Stem  6— 10  lines  long,  6-10  lines 

thick. 

Sandy  soil  in  pine  woods.      Quogue.      September. 

This  species  is  related  to  Russula  delica,  but  is  easily  distinguished 
by  its  short  stem  and  crowded  gills.  The  pileus  also  is  not  shining  and 
the  taste  is  tardily  somewhat  acrid.  From  Lactarius  exsuccus  it  is 
separated  by  the  character  of  the  gills  and  the  very  short  stem  which  is 
about  as  broad  as  it  is  long.  The  spores  also  are  larger  than  in  that 
species.  The  gills  in  the  young  plant  are  sometimes  studded  with 
drops  of  water.  They  are  not  clearly  decurrent.  Some  of  them  are 
forked  at  the  base.  The  pileus  is  but  slightly  raised  above  the  surface 
of  the  ground  and  is  generally  soiled  by  adhering  dirt  and  often  marked 
by  rusty  or  brownish  stains.  The  plants  grew  in  old  roads  in  the  woods 
where  the  soil  had  been  trodden  and  compacted.  Peck,  43d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

189 


RUSSULA  BREVIPES. 
After  Prof.  Peck. 


Agaricaceee 

Eussuia.  West  Virginia.  1882;  Pennsylvania,  1887-1894;  New  Jersey,  1892. 
Solitary  in  pine  and  hemlock  woods,  generally  on  bare,  compact  ground. 
August  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

This  species  is  a  sparse  grower,  but  its  good  size  and  respectable  num- 
bers soon  fill  the  basket.  When  fresh  it  is  of  good  substance  and  flavor. 

K.  del'ica  Fr. —  deliciis,  weaned.  (Milkless,  juiceless  in  gills.) 
White.  Pileus  3-5  in.  broad,  fleshy  throughout,  firm,  umbilicate  then 
infundibuliform,  regular,  everywhere  even,  smooth  with  a  whitish  luster, 
the  involute  margin  without  striae.  Flesh  firm,  juiceless,  not  very 
thick,  white.  Stem  curt,  1-2  in.  long,  %.  in.  and  more  thick,  solid, 
even,  smooth,  white.  Gills  decurrent,  thin,  distant,  very  unequal, 
white,  exuding  small  watery  drops  in  wet  weather.  Fries. 

Spores  minutely  echinulate,  white,  broadly  elliptical,  8-iox6-7/A 
Mas  see. 

In  appearance  it  resembles  Lactarius  vellereus  and  L.  piperatus,  but 
its  gills  do  not  distill  milk  or  juice.  It  differs,  too,  in  its  mild  taste.  It 
is  related  to  R.  brevipes  Pk. 

A  large,  coarse  species,  cup-shaped  at  maturity.  I  have  found  it  in 
several  localities  in  Massachusetts  in  July  and  August.  It  is  of  fair 
quality  cooked,  but  much  inferior  to  R.  virescens,  etc.  Macadam. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  in  mixed  woods,  August 
to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.  Taste  mild.  From  the  juiceless  variety  of  L.  vellereus  its 
mild  taste  alone  furnishes  a  separate  character.  Peck. 

I  have  eaten  it  since  1882,  but  it  is  not  a  favorite.     Its  quality  is  fair. 

R.  sor'dida  Pk.— dirty.  (Plate  XLIV,  fig.  4,  P.  184.)  Pileus  firm, 
convex,  centrally  depressed,  dry,  sordid-white,  sometimes  clouded  with 
brown.  Gills  close,  white,  some  of  them  forked.  Stem  equal,  solid, 
concolorous.  Spores  globose,  7- 5/*'  Taste  acrid.  Flesh  changing  color 
when  wounded,  becoming  black  or  bluish-black. 

Plant  4-5  in.  high.     Pileus  3-5  in.  broad.     Stem  6-12  lines  thick. 

Ground  under  hemlock  trees.      Worcester.      July. 

It  resembles  L.  piperatus  in  general  appearance.  The  whole  plant 
turns  black  in  drying.  Peck,  26th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Ohio,   Morgan;    Pennsylvania,   Herbst ;  West  Virginia,  1881—1885, 

190 


Leucosporse 

Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,   pine,   hemlock  and  mixed  woods,  July  to  Eussuia. 
September.      Mcllvaine. 

It  is  of  better  quality  than  most  coarse-grained  Russulse. 

FURCA'T.^. 

K.  furca'ta  Fr. — furca,  a  fork.  Pileus  3  in.  broad,  sometimes 
greenish,  sometimes  umber-greenish,  fleshy,  compact,  gibbous  then 
piano-depressed  or  infundibuliform,  even,  smooth,  but  often  sprinkled 
with  slightly  silky  luster,  pellicle  here  and  there  separable,  margin  thin, 
at  first  inflexed,  then  spreading,  always  even.  Flesh  firm,  somewhat 
cheesy,  white.  Stem  2  in.  or  a  little  more  long,  solid,  firm,  equal  or 
attenuated  downward,  even,  white.  Gills  adnato-decnrrent ,  rather  thick, 
somewhat  distant  but  broad,  attenuated  at  both  ends,  frequently  forked, 
shining  white.  Fries. 

Spores  globose,  echinulate,  6-7/4  C.B.P.;  7-8x9^,  Massee. 

In  woods,  and  grass  under  trees. 

The  frequently  forked  gills,  from  which  the  species  takes  its  name, 
their  being  thick  and  slightly  decurrent,  help  to  distinguish  it.  It  is 
quite  common  in  its  several  varieties. 

Taste  mild  at  first.  A  slight  bitter  develops  which  disappears  in 
cooking.  It  is  then  of  good  quality,  not  equal  to  R.  virescens.  Older 
writers  marked  it  poisonous,  doubtless  for  no  other  cause  than  its  slight 
bitter.  I  have  eaten  it  freely  for  fifteen  years. 

R.  sangui'nea  Fr. — sanguis,  blood.  Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  blood- 
red  or  becoming  pale  round  the  even,  spreading,  acute  margin,  fleshy, 
firm,  at  first  convex,  obtuse,  then  depressed  and  infundibuliform  and 
commonly  gibbous  in  the  center,  polished,  even,  moist  in  damp  weather. 
Flesh  firm,  cheesy,  white.  Stem  stout,  spongy-stuffed,  at  first  con- 
tracted at  the  apex,  then  equal,  slightly  striate,  white  or  reddish.  Gills 
at  first  adnate,  then  truly  decurrent,  very  crowded,  very  narrow,  con- 
nected by  veins,  fragile,  somewhat  forked,  shining  white.  Fries. 

Spores  9-iOju,  diameter  Massee. 

In  pine  and  mixed  woods.     July  to  October. 

Color  same  as  R.  rubra  but  differs  in  its  hard  cheesy  flesh,  rigid, 
slightly  yellowish  gills  in  age.  The  gills  of  R.  sanguinea  are  truly 
decurrent,  and  pointed  in  front. 

191 


Agaricaceee 

Bussuia.  Poisonous.  Stevenson.  Krapp  says  he  has  experienced  grave  incon- 
veniences from  eating  it. 

Myself  and  very  many  friends  eat  all  fresh  inviting  Russulae.  We  do 
not  discriminate  against  a  single  peppery  or  acrid  species,  not  even  the 
R.  emetica  which  has  been  severely  maligned.  In  fact  the  peppery 
Russulae  are  usually  substantial  in  flesh  and  choice  in  substance. 

The  opinion  of  many  is  that  R.  sanguinea  is  one  of  the  best.  I  have 
eaten  it  for  years. 

R.  depal'lens  Pers. — palleo,  to  be  pale.  PileilS  3-4  in.  across,  pal- 
lid-reddish or  inclining  to  dingy-brown,  etc.,  fleshy,  firm,  convex, 
then  plane,  more  rarely  depressed,  but  commonly  irregularly  shaped 
and  undulated,  even,  the  thin,  adnate  pellicle  presently  changing  color, 
especially  at  the  disk,  the  spreading  margin  even,  but  slightly  striate 
when  old.  Flesh  white.  Stem  about  i2£  in.  long,  solid,  firm,  com- 
monly attenuated  downward,  white,  becoming  cinereous  when  old.  Gills 
adnexed,  broad,  crowded,  distinct,  but  commonly  forked  at  the  base, 
often  with  shorter  ones  intermixed.  Inodorous,  taste  mild.  The  color 
of  the  pileus  is  at  first  pallid-reddish,  or  inclining  to  brownish,  then 
whitish  or  yellowish,  opaque  in  every  stage  of  growth.  It  approaches 
nearest  to  the  Heterophyllae.  Fries. 

In  beech  woods,  pastures,  etc.      August  to  September. 

Spores  subglobose,  echinulate,  7-8p  Massee. 

R.  depallens  somewhat  resembles  R.  heterophylla.  Both  are  edible. 
It  is  a  solitary  grower  and  not  common,  but  when  found  it  occurs  in 
good  quantity.  It  belongs  to  the  best  class  of  Russulae. 

R.  SUbdepal'lens  Pk. — sub,  de  and  palleo,  to  be  pale.  Pileus  fleshy, 
at  first  convex  and  striate  on  the  margin,  then  expanded  or  centrally 
depressed  and  tuberculate-striate  on  the  margin,  viscid,  blood-red  or 
purplish  red,  mottled  with  yellowish  spots,  becoming  paler  or  almost 
white  with  age,  often  irregular.  Flesh  fragile,  white,  becoming  cinereous 
with  age,  reddish  under  the  cuticle,  taste  mild.  Lamellae  broad,  sub- 
distant,  adnate,  white  or  whitish,  the  interspaces  venose.  Stem  stout, 
solid  but  spongy  within,  persistently  white. 

Spores  white,  globose,  rough,  8/u.  broad. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.     Stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng.  6-12  lines  thick. 

Under  a  hickory  tree.     Trexlertown,  Pa.     June.      W.  Herbst. 

192 


Leucosporae 

Closely  related  to  Russula  depallens,  from  which  it  differs  in  having  Russula. 
the  margin  of  the  pileus  striate  at  first  and  more  strongly  so  when  ma- 
ture, also  in  the  pileus  being  spotted  at  first,  the  gills  more  distant,  the 
stem  persistently  white  and  the  spores  white.      Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club. 
Vol.  23,  No.  10.     October,  1896. 

I  do  not  doubt  its  edibility.      See  R.  depallens. 

R.  ochrophyl'la  Pk. — ochra,  a  yellow  earth;  phyllon,  a  leaf.  Pileus 
2-4  in.  broad,  firm,  convex  becoming  nearly  plane  or  slightly  depressed 
in  the  center,  even  or  rarely  very  slightly  striate  on  the  margin  when 
old,  purple  or  dark  purplish  red.  Flesh  white,  purplish  under  the  ad- 
nate  cuticle,  taste  mild.  Gills  entire,  a  few  of  them  forked  at  the  base, 
subdistant,  adnate,  at  first  yellowish,  becoming  bright  ochraceous  buff 
when  mature,  dusted  by  the  spores,  the  interspaces  somewhat  venose. 
Stem  equal  or  nearly  so,  solid  or  spongy  within,  reddish  or  rosy  tinted, 
paler  than  the  pileus.  Spores  bright  ochraceous  buff,  globose-verru- 
culose,  IO/A  broad. 

The  ochery-gilled  Russula  is  a  large  fine  species,  but  not  a  common 
one.  It  differs  but  little  in  color  and  size  from  the  European  pungent 
Russula,  Russula  drimeia,  but  it  is  easily  distinguished  from  it  by  its 
mild  taste. 

The  cap  is  dry,  convex  or  a  little  depressed  in  the  center,  purple  or 
purplish  red,  the  white  flesh  purplish  under  the  cuticle,  which,  however, 
is  not  easily  separable. 

The  gills  are  nearly  all  entire,  extending  from  the  stem  to  the  margin 
of  the  cap.  They  are  therefore  much  closer  together  near  the  stem  than 
at  the  margin.  They  are  at  first  yellowish,  but  a  bright  ochraceous  buff 
when  mature.  They  are  then  dusted  by  the  similarly  colored  spores. 

The  stem  is  stout,  nearly  cylindric,  firm  but  spongy  in  the  center  and 
colored  like  the  cap,  but  generally  a  little  paler.  There  is  a  variety  in 
which  the  stem  is  white  and  the  cap  deep  red.  In  other  respects  it  is 
like  the  typical  form.  Its  name  is  Russula  ochrophylla  albipes. 

The  ochery-gilled  Russula  grows  in  groups  under  trees,  especially 
oak  trees,  and  should  be  sought  in  July  and  August.  Peck,  5ist  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  July  to  September,  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.     Peck,  Soth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

13  193 


Agaricacese 

RI'GID^E. 

Russuia.  R.  lac'tea  Fr. — lac,  milk.  Pileus  2  in.  broad,  at  the  first  milk-white, 
then  tan-white,  throughout  compactly  fleshy ,  bell-shaped,  then  convex, 
often  excentric,  without  a  pellicle,  always  dry,  at  the  first  even,  then 
slightly  cracked  when  dry,  margin  straight,  thin,  obtuse,  even.  Flesh 
compact,  white.  Stem  1/^-2  in.  long,  \%  in.  thick,  solid,  very  com- 
pact, but  at  length  spongy-soft  within,  equal,  even,  always  white.  Gills 
free,  very  broad,  thick,  distant,  rigid,  forked,  white.  Fries. 

Spores  subglobose,  echinulate,  7~9/x  Massee. 

Closely  allied  to  R.  albella  Pk.  from  which  it  differs  in  its  shorter 
stem,  and  pileus  cracking  into  areolae,  and  gills  not  being  entire. 

In  mixed  woods,  in  patches,  not  common. 

Botanic  creek,  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  patches,  Mcllvaine,  1887. 

Edible  and  of  good  flavor.     Macadam. 

Raw,  it  has  a  raw,  rather  unpleasant  taste  and  odor,  a  little  like 
some  acorns.  But  its  firm,  thick  flesh,  meaty  gills  and  stem,  and  good 
flavor  when  well  cooked,  rank  it  equal  to  any. 

R.  albella  Pk. — whitish.  Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  thin,  fragile,  dry, 
plane  or  slightly  depressed  in  the  center,  even  or  obscurely  striate  on 
the  margin,  commonly  white,  sometimes  tinged  with  pink  or  rosy-red, 
especially  on  the  margin.  Flesh  white,  taste  mild.  Lamellae  entire, 
white,  becoming  dusted  by  the  spores.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  3-4  lines 
thick,  equal,  solid  or  spongy  within,  white. 

Spores  white,  globose,  /.6/*  broad. 

Dry  soil  of  frondose  woods.      Port  Jefferson.     July. 

Closely  allied  to  R.  lactea,  but  differing  in  its  fragile  texture,  entire 
lamellae,  more  slender  stem,  and  in  the  pileus  not  cracking  into  areas. 
Peck,  50th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

R.  vires'cens  Fr. — viresco,  to  be  green.  (Plate  XLIV,  fig.  6,  p. 
184.)  Pileus  green,  compactly  fleshy,  globose  then  expanded,  at 
length  depressed,  often  unequal,  always  dry,  not  furnished  with  a  pellicle, 
wherefore  the  flocculose  cuticle  is  broken  up  into  patches  or  warts,  margin 
straight,  obtuse,  even.  Flesh  white,  not  very  compact.  Stem  solid, 
internally  spongy,  firm,  somewhat  rivulose,  white.  Grills  free,  some- 

194 


Leucosporee 

what  crowded,  sometimes  equal,  sometimes  forked,  with  a  few  shorter  Eussuia. 
ones  intermixed,  white.     Fries. 

Taste  mild;  good,  raw. 

Spores  scarcely  echinulate,  almost  globular,  6^  W.G.S.  Spores 
8—  IO/A  Mas  see;  6—7.61*-  Peck. 

Cap  round  when  young,  very  hard,  then  convex  or  becoming  dished, 
sometimes  repand.  It  is  without  a  separable  skin,  covered  with  various 
sized  areas  of  mouldy  looking  patches  which  are  at  times  distinctly 
cracked.  The  color  varies  from  a  bright  bluish-green  to  grayish-green, 
such  shades  remind  one  of  mouldy  cheese  or  the  shades  of  Roquefort ; 
again  the  color  may  vary  in  shades  of  light  leather  brown,  occasionally 
the  caps  are  almost  white,  opaque  in  each  shade  of  color.  Flesh  crisp, 
brittle,  thick,  white,  mild,  good  raw.  Gills  and  stem  as  described. 

R.  virescens  is  common  in  the  United  States  but  not  generally  plenti- 
ful. It  is  a  solitary  grower,  usually  but  few  are  found  in  a  patch. 
Striking  in  appearance  when  its  green  colors  are  present,  and  always 
clean  looking  and  inviting.  It  sometimes  attains  the  size  of  5  in.  across. 
It  is  a  hot  weather  Russula  and  rarely  appears  before  the  latter  part  of 
June,  then  after  rains. 

To  eat,  it  should  be  in  a  healthy,  fresh  condition.  All  Russulae 
impart  a  stale  flavor  if  any  part  of  gills  or  cap  is  wilting,  drying  or 
decaying.  It  requires  forty  minutes'  slow  stewing,  or  it  can  be  dressed 
raw  as  a  salad.  Roasted  or  fried  crisp  in  a  hot  buttered  pan  it  is  at  its 
best.  It  should  be  well  salted. 

R.  lep'ida  Fr. — lepidus,  neat,  elegant.  Pileus  3  in.  broad,  blood- 
red-rose,  becoming  pale,  whitish  especially  at  the  disk,  somewhat  equally 
fleshy,  convex  then  expanded,  scarcely  depressed,  obtuse,  opaque,  un- 
polished, with  a  silky  appearance,  at  length  often  cracked  scaly ,  margin 
spreading,  obtuse,  without  striae.  Stem  as  much  as  3  in.  long,  often 
I  in.  thick,  even,  white  or  rose-color.  Gills  rounded  behind,  rather 
thick,  somewhat  crowded,  often  forked,  connected  by  veins,  white,  often 
red  at  the  edge. 

Taste  mild ;  wholly  compact  and  firm,  but  the  flesh  is  cheesy,  not 
somewhat  clotted.  The  gills  are  often  red  at  the  edge,  chiefly  toward 
the  margin,  on  account  of  the  margin  of  the  pileus  being  continuous 
with  the  gills.  Fries. 

Spores  8- 1  ox6-8/u.  Syll. 

195 


Agaricaceae 

Kussuia.       Frequent.     July  to  October,  in  mixed  woods. 

A  common  and  variable  species  in  size  and  color,  but  the  cap  is 
always  some  shade  of  rose-red  or  lake.  The  flesh  is  compact  and 
cheesy.  The  gills  sometimes  edged  with  pink  as  they  near  the  margin. 
Taste  mild. 

The  crisp  flesh  of  R.  lepida  requires  forty  minutes'  slow  stewing,  if 
stewed.  It  yields  a  delicate  pink  shade  to  the  dish.  Roasted  or  cooked 
in  a  hot  buttered  pan  it  is  excellent. 

R.  ru'bra  Fr. — ruber,  red.  Pileus  unicolorous,  a  cinnabar-ver- 
milion, but  becoming  pale  (tan)  when  old,  disk  commonly  darker,  com- 
pact, hard  but  fragile,  convex,  then  flattened,  here  and  there  depressed, 
absolutely  dry,  without  a  pellicle,  but  becoming  polished-even,  often  sinu- 
ously cracked  when  old,  margin  spreading,  obtuse,  even,  always  per- 
sistent. Flesh  white,  reddish  under  the  cuticle.  Stem  2-3  in.  long, 
about  I  in.  thick,  solid,  even,  varying  white  and  red.  Gills  obtusely 
adnate,  somewhat  crowded,  whitish,  then  yellowish,  with  dimidiate  and 
forked  ones  intermixed. 

Very  acrid,  very  hard  and  rigid,  most  distinct  from  all  the  others  of 
this  group  in  the  pileus  becoming  polished-even,  although  without  a  pel- 
licle, in  the  flesh  being  somewhat  clotted,  and  in  the  very  acrid  taste. 
Gills  often  red  at  the  edge.  Fries. 

Spores  whitish,  Fries;  spheroid,  8-io/u.  K. 

Krapp  says  he  has  experienced  grave  inconveniences  from  eating  it. 
European  authorities  mark  "poisonous." 

I  do  not  hesitate  to  cook  it  either  by  itself  or  with  other  Russulse  and 
serve  it  at  my  table.  It  is  easier  cooked  than  R.  virescens  and  others 
of  the  crisp  species,  and  has  equal  flavor. 

R.  Linnse'i  Fr. — in  honor  of  Linnaeus.  Pileus  3-4  in.  broad,  uni- 
colorous, dark  purple,  blood-red  or  bright  rose,  opaque,  not  becoming 
pale,  everywhere  fleshy,  rigid,  piano-depressed,  sometimes  spread  up- 
ward, even,  smooth,  dry,  without  a  separable  pellicle,  margin  spreading, 
obtuse,  without  striae.  Flesh  thick,  spongy-compact,  white.  Stem  I  % 
in.  and  more  long,  I  in.  and  more  thick,  stout,  firm,  but  spongy-soft 
within,  somewhat  ventricose,  obsoletely  retictdated  with  fibers,  intensely 
blood-red.  Gills  adnate,  somewhat  decurrent,  rather  thick,  not  crowded, 
broad  (more  than  %  in.),  fragile,  sparingly  connected  by  veins,  white, 

196 


LeucosporsB 

becoming  yellow  when  dry,  with  a  few  dimidiate  ones  intermixed,  some- 
what  anastomosing  behind.  Fries. 

Spores  wholly  white,  Fries;  ellipsoid,  spheroid,  echinulate,  i  ip. 
Q.;  9-nx8-9/u.  Massee. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885.  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  on  Bartram's 
Botanic  creek.  Mcllvaine. 

R.  Linnaei  is  one  of  our  handsomest  and  best  Russulae.  European 
authors  state  its  habit  to  be  exactly  that  of  R.  emetica,  but  though  I  have 
known  it  intimately  for  many  years  I  have  not  been  struck  with  this  in 
the  American  plant.  Its  large  size,  its  more  or  less  red  stem  never  en- 
tirely white,  at  times  hollow,  cavernous,  its  less  solid  flesh,  habit  of  grow- 
ing in  troops,  sometimes  parts  of  rings,  flourishing  best  where  the  leaf 
mat  is  heaviest,  loving  the  leaf  drift  in  fence-corners,  are  well  marked 
distinctions. 

When  young  there  is  no  better  Russuia.  As  it  ages  the  ,stem  be- 
comes soft,  spongy  and  should  be  thrown  away.  The  caps,  only,  eaten. 

R.  oliva'cea  Fr. — oliva,  an  olive;  olivaceus,  the  color  of  an  olive. 
Pileus  2-4  in.  across,  dingy-purple  then  olivaceous  or  wholly  brownish- 
olivaceous,  fleshy,  convexo-flattened  and  depressed,  slightly  silky  and 
squamulose,  margin  spreading,  even.  Flesh  white,  becoming  somewhat 
yellow.  Stem  firm,  ventricose,  rose-color  to  pallid,  spongy-stuffed 
within.  Gills  adnexed,  wide,  yellow,  with  shorter  and  forked  ones 
intermixed. 

Mild.  Near  to  R.  rubra,  but  certainly  distinct  in  the  stem  being 
definitely  spongy,  in  the  pileus  being  unpolished,  and  in  the  gills  being 
soft  and  brightly  colored;  corresponding  with  R.  alutacea.  Fries. 

Spores  light  yellow,  Fries;  spheroid,  punctate,  IO/A  Q.;  globose, 
minutely  granulate,  yellow,  9— io/x  diameter  Massee. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,    1897-1898. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  across,  2-3  in.  long,  Yz-Y*  in.  thick. 

The  caps  are  equally  good  with  R.  alutacea.  They  must  be  fresh, 
and  similarly  cooked. 

R.fla'vida  Frost— yellow.  (Plate  XLIV,  fig.  3,  p.  184.)  Pileus 
fleshy,  convex,  slightly  depressed,  unpolished,  bright  yellow.  Gills 
white,  adnate,  turning  cinereous.  Stem  yellow,  solid,  white  at  the  ex- 
treme apex.  Frost  Ms. 

197 


Agaricacese 

Russuia.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex,  slightly  depressed  in  the  center,  not  polished, 
yellow,  the  margin  at  first  even,  then  slightly  striate-tuberculate.  Gills 
nearly  entire,  venose-connected,  white,  then  cinereous  or  yellowish. 
Stem  firm,  solid,  yellow,  sometimes  white  at  the  top. 

Spores  yellow,  subglobose,  6.5-7.6^  in  diameter.  Flesh  white,  taste 
mild. 

Plant  2-3  in.  high.  Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.  Stem  4-6  lines  thick. 
Frost  Mss. 

Ground  in  woods.  Sandlake.  August.  Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

R.  flavida  is  showy,  solitary  and  in  patches.  The  stem  when  young 
and  solid  is  equally  good  with  the  cap.  Cooks  in  twenty-five  minutes 
and  is  of  good  flavor. 

HETEROPHYL'L^E. 

R.  ves'ca  Fr. — vesco,  to  feed.  Pileus  red- flesh-color,  disk  darker, 
fleshy,  slightly  firm,  piano-depressed,  slightly  wrinkled  with  veins,  with 
a  viscid  pellicle,  margin  at  length  spreading.  Flesh  cheesy,  firm,  shin- 
ing white.  Stem  solid,  compact,  externally  rigid,  reticulated  and 
wrinkled  in  a  peculiar  manner,  often  attenuated  at  the  base,  shining 
white.  Gills  adnate,  crowded,  thin,  shining  white,  with  many  unequal 
and  forked  ones  intermixed,  but  scarcely  connected  by  veins. 

Of  middle  stature.      Taste  mild,  pleasant.     Fries. 

Spores  globose,  echinulate,  white,  9— io/«,  diameter  Massee. 

In  mixed  woods.      Common.     August  to  frost. 

R.  vesca  is  frequent  in  woods  or  margins,  and  under  trees  in  the 
open.  It  is  especially  fond  of  growing  in  the  grass  under  lone  chestnut 
trees.  The  caps  seldom  exceed  2.%  in.  across. 

It  is  one  of  the  best. 

R.  cyanoxan'tha  (Schaeff. )  Fr.  Gr. — blue;  Gr. — yellow.  (From  the 
colors.)  (Plate  XLIV,  fig.  i,  p.  184.)  Pileus  2-3  in.  and  more 
broad,  lilac  or  purplish  then  olivaceous-green,  disk  commonly  becoming 
pale  often  yellowish,  margin  commonly  becoming  azure-bine  or  livid 
purple,  compact,  convex  then  plane,  then  depressed  or  infundibuliform, 
sometimes  even,  sometimes  wrinkled  or  streaked,  viscous,  margin 
deflexed  then  expanded,  remotely  and  slightly  striate.  Flesh  firm, 

198 


Leucosporee 

cheesy,  white,  commonly  reddish  beneath  the  separable  pellicle.    Stem  Russuia. 
2—3   in.    long,  as  much  as    I    in.  thick,  spongy-stuffed,  but  firm,  often 
cavernous  within  when  old,  equal,  smooth,  even,  shining  white.      Gills 
rounded  behind,  connected  by  veins,  not  much  crowded,  broad,  forked 
with  shorter  ones  intermixed,  shining  white. 

Allied  to  R.  vesca  in  its  mild,  pleasant  taste  and  in  other  respects, 
but  constantly  different  in  the  color  of  the  pileus,  which  is  very  variable, 
whereas  in  R.  vesca  it  is  unchangeable.  The  peculiar  combination  of 
colors  in  the  pileus,  though  very  variable,  always  readily  distinguishes 
it.  Fries. 

Spores  8-9|u,,  cystidia  numerous,  pointed,  Massee;  8-iox6-8/x  Sacc. 

In  mixed  woods.      Common.      August  to  October. 

Pronounced  one  of  the  best  esculent  species  by  all  authorities. 

R.  heterophyl'la  Fr.  Gr. — differing;  Gr. — a  leaf.  (Gills  differing 
in  length.)  Pileus  very  variable  in  color,  but  never  becoming  reddish 
or  purple,  fleshy,  firm,  convexo-plane  then  depressed,  even,  polished, 
the  very  thin  pellicle  disappearing,  margin  thin,  even  or  densely  but 
slightly  striate.  Flesh  white.  Stem  solid,  firm,  somewhat  equal,  even, 
shining  white.  Gills  reaching  the  stem  in  an  attenuated  form,  very  nar- 
row, very  crowded,  forked  and  dimidiate,  shining  white. 

Taste  always  mild,  as  in  R.  cyanoxantha,  from  which  it  differs  in  its 
smaller  stature,  in  the  pileus  being  thinner,  even,  never  reddish  or  pur- 
plish, with  a  thin  closely  adnate  pellicle,  in  the  stem  being  firm  and  solid, 
and  in  the  gills  being  thin,  very  narrow,  very  crowded,  etc.  The  apex 
of  the  stem  is  occasionally  dilated  in  the  form  of  a  cup,  so  that  the  gills 
appear  remote.  Fries. 

Spores  echinulate,  5x7/u-  W.G.S.;  /-8/i  diameter  Massee. 

Common.     Woods.     July  to  November. 

Edible,  of  a  sweet  nutty  flavor.      Stevenson. 

R.  heterophylla  is  very  common.  Its  smooth,  even  pileus,  colored  in 
some  dingy  shade  of  green,  distinguishes  it.  It  is  much  infested  by 
grubs.  Specimens  for  the  table  should  be  young  and  fresh.  Wilted 
specimens  are  unpleasant. 

R.  fffi'tens  Fr. — fcetens,  stinking.  Pileus  4-5  in.  and  more  broad, 
dingy  yellow,  often  becoming  pale,  thinly  fleshy,  at  first  bullate,  then 
expanded  and  depressed,  covered  with  a  pellicle  which  is  adnate,  not 

199 


Agaricaceae 

Eussuia.  separable,  and  viscid  in  wet  weather,  margin  broadly  membranaceous, 
at  the  first  bent  inward  with  ribs  which  are  at  lengtJi  tubercular.  Flesh 
thin,  rigid- fragile,  pallid.  Stem  2  in.  and  more  long,  %-\  in.  thick, 
stout,  stuffed  then  hollow,  whitish.  Gills  adnexed,  crowded,  connected 
by  veins,  with  very  many  dimidiate  and  forked  ones  intermixed,  whitish, 
at  the  first  exuding  watery  drops. 

Fetid.  Taste  acrid.  Very  rigid,  most  distinct  from  all  others  in  its 
very  heavy  empyreumatic  odor.  In  very  dry  weather  the  odor  is  often 
obsolete.  The  margin  is  more  broadly  membranaceous  and  hence 
marked  with  longer  furrows  than  in  any  other  species.  It  differs  from 
all  the  preceding  ones  in  the  gills  at  the  first  exuding  watery  drops. 
The  gills  become  obsoletely  light  yellow,  and  dingy  when  bruised. 
Fries. 

Pileus  fleshy,  with  a  wide  thin  margin,  hemispherical  or  convex,  then 
expanded  or  depressed,  viscid  when  moist,  widely  striate-tuberculate  on 
the  margin,  dull  pale  yellow  or  straw  color.  Lamellae  rather  broad, 
close,  venose-connected,  some  of  them  forked,  whitish.  Stipe  nearly 
cylindrical,  whitish,  hollow.  Spores  white.  Plant  sometimes  cespitose. 

Height  2-4  in.  ;  breadth  of  pileus  2-3  in.      Stipe  4-6  lines  thick. 

Pine  woods.     West  Albany.      October. 

Taste  mild  at  first,  then  slightly  disagreeable.  Peck,  2$d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Spores  minute,  echinulate,  almost  globular,  8/x,  W.G.S.;  8-io/u. 
Mas  see. 

In  woods.      Common.     July  to  October. 

Var.  gramilata  has  the  pileus  rough  with  small  granular  scales.  Peck, 
Rep.  39. 

A  very  coarse  and  easily  recognized  species.  Reckoned  poisonous, 
though  eaten  by  slugs.  W.G.S . 

The  verdict  is  against  it.  Both  smell  and  taste  are  usually  un- 
pleasant. Cooked  it  retains  its  flavor,  more  closely  resembling  wild 
cherry  bark  than  anything  else.  On  two  occasions  I  ate  enough  to  con- 
vince me  that  it  was  not  poisonous. 

R.  el'egans  Bresad. — elegans,  pretty.  Mild  at  first,  becoming  acrid 
with  age.  Pileus  2-3  in.  across.  Flesh  rather  thick ;  convex  then  de- 
pressed; margin  tuberculose  and  striate  when  old,  viscid,  bright  rosy 
flesh-color,  soon  ochraceous  at  the  circumference,  everywhere  densely 

200 


Leucosporae 

granulated.     Gills  adnexed  or  slightly  rounded,   narrow  behind,  very  Bussnia. 
much  crowded,  equal,  rarely  forked,  whitish,  becoming  either  entirely 
or  here  and  there  ochraceous-orange.      Stem   i3^— 2  in.  long,  5—7  lines 
thick,  a  little  thickened  at  the  base,  rather  rugulose,  white,  base  ochra- 
ceous.     Flesh  white,  turning  ochraceous  and  acrid  when  old. 

Spores  8-io/x  diameter  Massee. 

Allied  to  R.  vesca.  Known  by  the  bright  rose-colored,  densely  gran- 
ular pileus  and  tuberculose  margin.  When  old  the  pileus  is  almost  en- 
tirely ochraceous.  Massee. 

Frequent  in  the  West  Virginia  forests,  1881-1885.  Chester  county, 
Pa.,  1887-1890.  In  mixed  woods.  July  to  September.  Mcllvaine. 

It  differs  from  R.  vesca  in  its  cap  being  minutely  granulated  instead 
of  streaked,  and  in  becoming  acrid  with  age. 

The  caps  are  of  good  quality,  needing  to  be  well  cooked. 

FRA'GILES. 
*  Gills  and  spores  white. 

R.  eme'tica  Fr. — an  emetic.  (Plate  XLIV,  fig.  2,  p.  184.)  PileilS 
3-4  in.  broad,  at  first  rosy  then  blood-color,  tawny  when  old,  sometimes 
becoming  yellow  and  at  length  (in  moist  places)  white,  at  first  bell- 
shaped  then  flattened  or  depressed,  polished,  margin  at  length  furrowed 
and  tubercular .  Flesh  white,  reddish  under  tlie  separable  pellicle.  Stem 
spongy-stuffed,  stout,  elastic  when  young,  fragile  when  older,  even, 
white  or  reddish.  Gills  somewhat  free,  broad,  somewhat  distant,  shining 
white. 

Handsome,  regular,  moderately  firm,  but  fragile  when  full  grown, 
taste  very  acrid.  Fries. 

Spores  shining  white,  Fries;  spheroid,  echinulate,  S-IO/A  K.;  7/x. 
W.G.S. 

Maryland,  Miss  Banning;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  22;  Indiana,  Illi- 
nois, H.  I.  Miller. 

Said  to  act  as  its  name  implies  as  an  emetic.  Certainly  poisonous. 
Stevenson . 

Krapp  says  he  has  himself  experienced  rare  inconveniences  from  eating 
it.  Preferred  to  others  in  Indiana  and  Illinois.  H.  I.  Miller,  1898. 

The  varying  reports  upon  R.  emetica  are  quoted  above.  In  1881,  in 

201 


Agaricaceae 
i 

Russuia.  the  West  Virginia  mountains,  I  began  testing  this  Russula  and  soon 
found  that  it  was  harmless.  At  least  twenty  persons  ate  it  in  quantity, 
during  its  season,  for  four  years.  Yet,  in  my  many  published  articles,  I 
continued,  out  of  regard  for  the  opinions  of  others  and  in  excess  of 
caution,  to  warn  against  all  bitter  and  peppery  fungi.  But  from  that 
time  until  the  present  I  have  eaten  it,  and  I  have  made  special  effort  to 
establish  its  innocence  by  getting  numbers  of  my  friendly  helpers  to  eat  it. 
It  was  suggested  by  one  of  its  prosecutors  that  perhaps  I  was  mis- 
taking another  fungus  for  it.  In  October,  1898,  I  sent  to  Professor 
Peck  a  lot  of  the  Russula  I  was  eating.  He  wrote:  "It  seems  to  be 
R.  emetica  as  you  state.  It  certainly  is  hot  enough  for  it." 

R.  pectina'ta  Fr. — pccten,  a  comb.  Pileus  3  in.  broad,  at  first  gluey, 
toast-brown,  then  dry,  becoming  pale,  tan,  with  the  disk  always  darker, 
fleshy,  rigid,  convex  then  flattened  and  depressed  or  concavo-infundi- 
buliform  (basin-shaped)  ;  margin  thin,  pectinato-sulcate  (deeply  ribbed), 
here  and  there  irregularly  shaped.  Flesh  white,  light  yellowish  under 
the  pellicle,  which  is  not  easily  separable.  Stem  curt,  2  in.  long,  %  —  I 
in.  thick,  rigid,  spongy-stuffed,  longitudinally  slightly  striate,  shining 
white,  often  attenuated  at  the  base.  Gills  attemiato-free  behind,  broader 
toward  the  margin,  somewhat  crowded,  equal,  simple,  white. 

Odor  weak,  but  nauseous,  approaching  that  of  R.  fcetens.     Fries. 

Spores  8-9/n  diameter  Massee. 

New  York,  Peck,  43d  Rep.  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey. 
Common  in  woods,  grassy,  mossy  places.  July  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

Named  from  the  furrows  of  the  margin  being  like  the  teeth  of  a  comb. 

Both  the  appearance  and  smell  of  this  Russula  will  detect  it.  The 
peculiar  comb-like  furrows  of  its  margin,  viscid  or  varnished-looking 
cap,  and  strong  but  more  spicy  smell  than  cherry-bark  are  noticeable. 

It  is  edible,  but  so  strong  in  flavor  that  a  piece  of  one  will  spoil  a 
dish  if  cooked  with  other  kinds. 

R.  ochroleu'ca  Fr.  Gr. — pale  yellow ;  Gr. — white.  Pileus  yellow, 
becoming  pale,  fleshy,  flattened  or  depressed,  polished,  with  an  adnate 
pellicle,  the  spreading  margin  becoming  even.  Stem  spongy,  stuffed, 
firm,  slightly  reticulato-wrinkled ,  white,  becoming  cinereous.  Gills 
rounded  behind,  united,  broad,  somewhat  equal,  white  becoming  pale. 

Odor  obsolete,  but  pleasant.  The  pileus  is  never  reddish.  It  agrees 

202 


Leucosporse 

wholly  with  R.  emetica  in  structure  and  stature,  as  well  as  in  the  acrid  Russuia. 
taste ;  it  differs  however  in  the  stem  being  slightly  recticulato-wrinkled, 
white  becoming  cinereous,  in  the  adnate  pellicle  of  the  pileus,  in  the 
margin  remaining  for  a  long  time  even  (remotely  striate,  but  not  tuber- 
cular, only  when  old),  and  in  the  gills  being  rounded  behind  and  be- 
coming pale.  The  color  of  the  pileus  is  constant.  The  gills  remain 
free  and  do  not  exude  drops.  Fries.  » 

Cap  2-4  in.  across.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  up  to  %  in.  thick. 

Spores  papillose,  7//,  W.G.S.,  8x9/1,  Massee. 

Frequent  in  woods.     July  to  October. 

Not  as  common  as  R.  emetica,  yet  frequently  found,  usually  solitary, 
at  times  gregarious.  It  is  quite  peppery,  but  loses  pepperiness  in  cook- 
ing. Myself  and  others  have  frequently  eaten  it. 

R.  ci'trina  Gillet — citrina,   citron  colored.      Mild.     Pileus  2-3   in. 

across,  slightly  fleshy  at  the  disk,  margin  thin;  convex  then  more  or 
less  expanded  and  slightly  depressed,  rather  viscid  when  moist,  smooth, 
slightly  wrinkled  at  the  margin  when  old,  bright  lemon-yellow,  color 
usually  uniform,  sometimes  paler  at  the  margin,  occasionally  with  a 
greenish  tint,  center  of  pileus  at  length  becoming  pale-ochraceous ;  pel- 
licle separable.  Gills  slightly  decurrent,  broadest  a  short  distance  from 
the  margin,  and  gradually  becoming  narrower  towards  the  base,  forked 
at  the  base  and  also  sometimes  near  the  middle,  white,  \%  lines  deep 
at  broadest  part.  Stem  2—3  in.  long,  about  4  lines  thick,  equal  or 
slightly  narrowed  at  the  base,  slightly  wrinkled,  straight  or  very  slightly 
waved,  solid. 

Spores  subglobose,  echinulate,  8/*  diameter. 

In  woods. 

Known  by  the  clear  lemon-yellow  or  citron-colored  pileus  and  the 
persistently  white  gills  and  stem.  The  taste  is  mild  at  first,  but  be- 
comes slightly  acrid  if  kept  in  the  mouth  for  a  short  time.  Massee. 

R.  citrina  can  hardly  be  classed  among  the  acrid  species.  The  taste 
is  slightly  of  cherry-bark  and  disappears  in  cooking.  It  is  usually  found 
in  patches  which  contain  ten  to  twenty  individuals.  It  is  a  species  of 
fair  quality. 

R.  fra'gilis  Fr. — fragile.  Pileus  I— iK  in.  broad,  rarely  more,  flesh- 
color,  changing  color,  very  thin,  fleshy  only  at  the  disk,  at  the  first  con- 

203 


Agaricaceae 

Eussuia.  vex  and  often  umbonate,  then  plane  and  depressed,  pellicle  thin,  becom- 
ing pale,  slightly  viscid  in  wet  weather;  margin  very  thin,  tuberculoso- 
striate.  Stem  I  /£  —  2  in.  long,  spongy  within,  soon  hollow,  often  slightly 
striate,  white.  Gills  slightly  adnexed,  very  thin,  crowded,  broad,  ven- 
tricose,  all  equal,  shining  white.  Fries. 

Very  acrid.  Smaller  and  more  fragile  than  the  rest  of  the  group, 
directly  changing  color.  The  color  is  variable,  often  opaque,  typically 
flesh-color,  when  changed  in  color  white  externally  and  internally,  often 
with  reddish  spots.  Among  varieties  of  color  is  to  be  noted  a  livid 
flesh-colored  form,  with  the  disk  becoming  fuscous. 

It  is  not  easy  to  define  it  from  fragile  forms  of  R.  emetica,  but  the 
gills  are  much  more  crowded,  thinner,  and  often  slightly  eroded  at  the 
edge,  ventricose;  the  pileus  thinner  and  more  lax,  etc.  Stevenson. 

Var.  nivea  Fr. — nivea,  snowy.     Whole  plant  white. 

Spores  minutely  echinulate  8—  zoxSft  Massee. 

Though  one  of  the  peppery  kind,  I  have  not,  after  fifteen  years  of 
eating  it,  had  reason  to  question  its  edibility.  The  caps  are  not  meaty, 
but  what  there  is  of  them  is  good. 

R.  puncta'ta  Gillet — punctata,  dotted.  Mild.  Pileus  1^-2)^  in. 
across.  Flesh  thin,  white,  reddish  under  the  cuticle;  convex  then  flat- 
tened, viscid,  rosy,  disk  darkest,  punctate  with  dark  reddish  point-like 
warts,  pale  when  old;  margin  striate.  Gills  slightly  adnexed,  2  lines 
broad,  white  then  yellowish,  edge  often  reddish.  Stem  about  I  in. 
long,  4-5  lines  thick,  attenuated  and  whitish  at  the  base,  remainder 
colored  like  the  pileus,  stuffed. 

Spores  8-9/x,  diameter  Massee. 

Among  grass. 

Edible.      Boston  Myc.  Club  Bull.  1896. 

**  Gills  and  spores  white  then  yellowish  or  bright  lemon. 

R.  in'tegra  Fr. — integer,  entire,  whole.  PileilS  4-5  in.  across,  typic- 
ally red,  changing  color,  fleshy,  campanulato-convex  then  expanded 
and  depressed,  fragile  when  full-grown,  with  a  gluey  pellicle,  at  length 
furrowed  and  somewhat  tubercular  at  the  margin.  Flesh  white,  some- 
times yellowish  above.  Stem  at  first  short,  conical,  then  club-shaped 

204 


Leucosporee 

or  ventricose,  as  much  as  3  in.  long,  up  to  I  in.  thick,  spongy-stuffed,  Russuia. 
commonly  stout,  even,  shining  white.    Gills  somewhat  free,  very  broad, 
up  to  %    in.,  equal  or  bifid  at  the  stem,  somewhat  distant,  connected 
by  veins,  pallid- white,  at  length  light  yellow,  somewhat  Powdered  yellow 
with  the  spores. 

Taste  mild,  often  astringent.  The  most  changeable  of  all  species, 
especially  in  the  color  of  the  pileus  which  is  typically  red,  but  at  the 
same  time  inclining  to  azure-blue,  bay-brown,  olivaceous,  etc.  Some- 
times the  gills  are  sterile  and  remain  white.  Fries. 

Spores  ellipsoid-spheroid  or  spheroid  echinulate,  globose,  rough, 
8-9/u,  C.B.P.;  9-io/t  diameter,  pale  ochraceous.  Massee. 

It  is  difficult  to  separate  R.  integra  from  R.  alutacea.  The  spores 
usually  show  upon  the  gills  as  pale  dull  yellow  powder.  It  is  of  equal 
excellence. 

R.  decolo'rans  Fr. — de  and  coloro,  to  color.  Pileus  3-5  in.  broad, 
color  various,  at  first  orange-red,  then  light  yellow  and  becoming  pale, 
fleshy,  spherical  then  expanded  and  depressed,  remarkably  regular, 
viscid  when  moist,  thin  and  at  length  striate  at  the  margin.  Flesh 
white,  but  becoming  somewhat  cinereous  when  broken,  and  more  or  less 
variegated  with  black  spots  when  old.  Stem  elongated,  3—5  in.,  cylin- 
drical, solid,  but  spongy  within,  often  wrinkled-striate ,  white  then  be- 
coming cinereous  especially  within.  Gills  adnexed,  often  in  pairs,  thin, 
crowded,  fragile,  white  then  yellowish. 

Taste  mild.  Colors  changeable  according  to  a  fixed  rule,  but  not 
variable.  The  gills  are  not  ochraceous-pulverulent  as  in  R.  integra,  nor 
shining  and  pure  yellow  as  in  R.  aurata,  etc.  Fries. 

Spores  yellow,  8.3/A  Morgan. 

New  York,  Peck,  23d  Rep.  Angora,  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1897, 
in  mixed  woods.  August  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Esculent  and  of  good  quality.     Morgan. 

Meals  of  it  make  one  regret  its  scarcity. 

K.  basifurca'ta  Pk. — forked  near  stem.  Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  firm, 
convex,  umbilicate,  becoming  somewhat  funnel  form,  glabrous,  slightly 
viscid  when  moist,  the  thin  pellicle  scarcely  separable  except  on  the 
margin,  dingy-white,  sometimes  tinged  with  yellow  or  reddish-yellow, 
the  margin  nearly  even.  Lamellae  rather  close,  narrowed  toward  the 

205 


Agaricacese 

Eussuia.  base,  adnate  or  slightly  emarginate,  many  of  them  forked  near  the  base, 
a  few  short  ones  intermingled,  white  becoming  yellowish.  Stem  8-12 
lines  long,  5-6  lines  thick,  firm,  solid,  becoming  spongy  within,  white. 

Spores  elliptical,  pale  yellow,  uninucleate  or  shining,  9x6.5^.  Flesh 
white,  taste  mild,  then  bitterish. 

Dry  hard  ground  in  paths  and  wood  roads.      Canoga,  N.  Y.     July. 

This  species  closely  resembles  pale  forms  of  R.  furcata,  from  which 
it  is  separated  by  the  absence  of  any  silky  micor  and  by  the  yellowish 
color  and  elliptical  shape  of  the  spores  and  by  the  yellowish  hue  of  the 
lamellae.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  September,  1898,  to  frost.  Gravelly  ground.  Soli- 
tary. Gills  adnate.  Identified  as  his  species  by  Professor  Peck. 

The  slight  bitterish  taste  disappears  in  cooking.  It  is  edible  and  of 
fair  quality. 

It.  aura'ta  Fr. — auntm,  gold.  Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  varying  lemon- 
yellow,  orange  and  red,  disk  darker,  fleshy,  rigid,  brittle  however,  hem- 
ispherical then  plane,  disk  not  depressed,  pellicle  thin,  adnate,  viscid  in 
wet  weather,  margin  even,  and  slightly  striate  only  when  old,  but  some- 
times wrinkled.  Flesh  lemon-yellow  under  the  pellicle,  white  below. 
Stem  2—3  in.  long,  solid,  firm,  but  spongy  within,  cylindrical,  obso- 
letely  striate,  white  or  lemon-yellow.  Gills  rounded  free,  connected  by 
veins,  broad,  equal,  shining,  never  pulverulent,  whitish  inclining  to  light 
yellow,  but  vivid  lemon-yellow  at  the  edge.  Fries. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885;  Pennsylvania,  1887-1898.  In  woods 
under  pines.  July  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Pileus  sometimes  depressed  in  center,  very  viscid  when  wet. 

A  troop  of  this  Russula  upon  brown  wood  mat  is  a  pretty  sight.  Its 
rich  and  brightly-colored  cap  attracts  the  eye  from  a  distance.  The 
yellow  edge  of  its  gills  is  the  distinctive  mark  of  the  species. 

The  smell  is  pleasant,  the  taste  slightly  of  cherry  bark. 

Cooked  it  is  one  of  the  best  Russulse. 

R.  atropurpu'rea  Pk. — atre,  black;  purpureus,  purple.  Dark  pur- 
ple Russula.  Pileus  3-4  in.  broad,  at  first  convex,  then  centrally  de- 
pressed, glabrous,  dark  purple,  blackish  in  the  center,  the  margin  even 
or  slightly  striate.  Flesh  white,  grayish  or  grayish-purple  under  the 
separable  pellicle,  taste  mild,  odor  of  the  drying  plant  fetid,  very  un- 

206 


Leucosporae 

pleasant.     Lamellae  nearly  equal,  subdistant,  sometimes  forked  near  the  Russuia. 
stem,  at  first  white,  then  yellowish,  becoming  brownish  where  bruised. 
Stem  2-3  in.  long,    5-8   lines  thick,    equal,    glabrous,   spongy  within, 
white,  brownish  where  bruised.      Spores  subglobose,  minutely  rough, 
pale  ochraceous  with  a  salmon  tint,  8— lO/x. 

Open  woods.      Gansevoort.     July. 

In  color  this  species  resembles  R.  variata,  but  in  other  respects  it  is 
very  different.  It  is  very  distinct  in  the  peculiar  color  of  its  spores, 
and  in  the  brownish  hue  assumed  by  wounds.  Peck,  4ist  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

West  Philadelphia,  Pa.  July,  1897.  Open  woods.  Solitary.  Phila- 
delphia Myc.  Center. 

Many  were  eaten  and  enjoyed.  Only  fresh  plants  are  acceptable,  and 
they  should  be  cooked  as  soon  as  gathered.  Even  in  wilting  they  be- 
come unpleasant. 

***  Gills  and  spores  ochraceous. 

R.  aluta'cea  Fr. — aluta,  tanned  leather.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad, 
commonly  bright  blood-color  or  red,  even  black-purple,  but  becoming 
pale,  especially  at  the  disk,  fleshy,  bell-shaped  then  convex,  flattened 
and  somewhat  umbilicate,  even,  with  a  remarkably  sticky  pellicle, 
margin  thin,  at  length  striate,  tubercular.  Flesh  snow-white.  Stem 
2  in.  long,  solid,  stout,  equal,  even,  white,  most  frequently  variegated- 
reddish,  even  purple.  Gills  at  first  free,  thick,  very  broad,  connected 
by  veins,  all  equal,  somewhat  distant,  at  first  pallid  light  yellow,  then 
bright  ochraceous,  not  pulverulent. 

It  is  distinguished  from  R.  integra  by  its  gills  not  being  pulverulent. 
Fries. 

Spores  yellow  7-9/4  Massee;  11-14x8-10/14  Sacc.,  Syll. 

July  to  frost.     Mcllvaine. 

R.  alutacea  is  easily  recognized  among  Russulae  by  its  mild  taste  and 
broad  yellow  gills.  In  young  specimens  one  sometimes  has  to  look  at 
the  gills  at  an  angle  to  detect  the  yellow.  It  is  quite  common  but  a 
solitary  grower.  It  is  everywhere  eaten  as  a  favorite.  Only  fresh 
plants  yield  a  good  flavor.  When  the  stem  is  soft,  it  should  be  thrown 
^way. 

207 


Agaricaceae 

K.  puella'ris  Fr.    (Plate  XLIV,  fig.  7,  p.  184.)   Mild.  Pileus  i-i^ 

in.  across,  flesh  almost  membranaceous  except  the  disk;  conico-convex 
then  expanded,  at  first  rather  gibbous,  then  slightly  depressed,  scarcely 
viscid,  color  peculiar,  purplish-livid  then  yellowish,  disk  always  darker 
and  brownish;  tuberculosely  striate,  often  to  the  middle.  Gills  adnate 
but  very  much  narrowed  behind,  thin,  crowded,  white  then  pale-yellow, 
not  shining  nor  powdered  with  the  spores.  Stem  I— i  *a  in.  long,  2—4 
lines  thick,  equal,  soft,  fragile,  wrinkled  under  a  lens,  white  or  yellowish; 
stuffed,  soon  hollow;  taste  mild. 

Spores  subglobose,  pale-yellow,  echinulate,  1 0x8-9/4  Massee. 

In  woods. 

Among  the  most  frequent  and  readily  recognized  of  species,  occur- 
ring in  troops.  Always  small,  thin,  taste  mild.  Allied  to  R.  nitida,  but 
more  slender ;  color  paler,  and  not  shining.  Fries. 

Distinguished  from  R.  nitida  and  R.  nauseosa  by  the  absence  of  smell. 
Massee. 

Var.  interi sior  Cke.  Nearly  the  same  size  as  the  typical  form ;  pileus 
deep  purp"le,  nearly  black  at  the  disk. 

The  stem  has  a  tendency  to  become  thickened  at  the  base,  and  turns 
yellowish  when  touched. 

Var.  rose'ipes  Sec.,  given  by  Massee,  has  been  retained  as  a  distinct 
species  by  Professor  Peck,  Rep.  51,  and  is  described  in  place.  R. 
pusilla  Pk.,  5<Dth  Rep.,  is  closely  allied  to  it. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina.  Common 
in  woods  and  under  trees  in  short  grass.  July  to  September.  Mcllvaine. 

This  little  Russula  is  ubiquitous.  It  does  not  amount  to  much  when 
other  fungi  are  plenty,  because  of  its  very  thin  cap,  but  it  thrives  in  all 
sorts  of  summer  weather.  When  its  companions  are  scarce  or  parched 
R.  puellaris  is  gladly  gathered  by  the  mycophagist,  its  numbers  making 
up  for  its  lightness  and  lack  of  flavor. 

R.  pusilla  Pk. — little.  Pileus  very  thin,  nearly  plane  or  slightly 
and  umbilicately  depressed  in  the  center,  glabrous,  slightly  striate  on 
the  margin,  red,  sometimes  a  little  darker  in  the  center,  the  thin  pellicle 
separable.  Flesh  white,  taste  mild.  Lamellae  broad  for  the  size  of  the 
plant,  subventricose,  subdistant,  adnate  or  slightly  rounded  behind, 
white,  becoming  yellowish-ochraceous  in  drying.  Stem  short,  soft, 
solid  or  spongy  within,  white. 

208 


Leucosporae 

Spores  faintly  tinged  with  yellow,  7-6/u.  broad.  Russuia. 

Pileus  scarcely  I  in.  broad.      Stem  6-12  lines  long,  2-3  lines  thick. 

Bare  ground  in  thin  woods.      Port  Jefferson.      July. 

The  coloring  matter  of  the  pileus  may  be  rubbed  upon  paper  and 
produce  on  it  red  stains  if  the  surface  is  previously  moistened  with  water 
or  dilute  alcohol.  This  is  one  of  the  smallest  Russulas  known  to  me. 
The  pileus  was  less  than  an  inch  broad  and  the  stem  less  than  an  inch 
long  in  all  the  specimens  seen  by  me.  The  species  is  closely  allied  to 
R.  puellaris,  and  especially  resembles  the  variety  intensior  in  color.  It 
differs  in  its  smaller  size,  even  or  but  slightly  striate  margin,  broad 
lamellae  and  in  the  stem  or  flesh  not  becoming  yellowish  spotted  where 
touched.  Peck,  Soth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885.  Pennsylvania,  1896-1897.  July  to 
September.  Mcllvaine. 

It  makes  up  in  quality  what  it  lacks  in  quantity. 

R.  rose'ipes  (Seer.)  Bres. —  rosa,  a  rose;  pes,  a  foot.  (Plate 
XLIV,  fig.  5,  p.  184.)  PileilS  1-2  in.  broad,  convex  becoming  nearly 
plane  or  slightly  depressed,  at  first  viscid,  soon  dry,  becoming  slightly 
striate  on  the  thin  margin,  rosy-red  variously  modified  by  pink  orange 
or  ochraceous  hues,  sometimes  becoming  paler  with  age,  taste  mild. 
Gills  moderately  close,  nearly  entire,  rounded  behind  and  slightly 
adhexed,  ventricose,  whitish  becoming  yellow.  Stem  1^-3  in.  long, 
3-4  lines  thick,  slightly  tapering  upward,  stuffed  or  somewhat  cavern- 
ous, white  tinged  with  red. 

Spores  yellow,  globose  or  subglobose. 

The  plants  grow  in  woods  of  pine  and  hemlock  and  have  been  col- 
lected in  July  and  August.  The  flesh  is  tender  and  agreeable  in  flavor. 
Peck,  5ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  globose,  minutely  echinulate,  pale  ochraceous,  8-io/u,  diameter 
Massee. 

R.  roseipes  is  common  in  West  Virginia  under  hemlocks  and  spruces. 
At  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  it  grew  sparingly  under  pines.  It  is  excellent. 

R.  Ma'rise  Pk.     Pileus  fleshy,  convex,  subumbilicate,  at  length  ex- 
panded and  centrally  depressed,  minutely  pulverulent,  bright  pink-red 
(crimson  lake),  the  disk  a  little  darker,  margin  even.     Lamellae  rather 
14  209 


Aguricacese 

Bnssuia.  close,  reaching  the  stem,  some  of  them  forked,  venose-connected,  white, 
then  yellowish.  Stem  equal,  solid,  colored  like  the  pileus  except  the 
extremities  which  are  usually  white.  Spores  globose,  nearly  smooth, 
7-6/x,  in  diameter;  flesh  of  the  pileus  white,  red  under  the  cuticle,  taste 
mild. 

Plant  2  in.  high.  Pileus  1.5-2  in.  broad.  Stem  3-6  lines  thick. 
Dry  ground  in  woods.  Catskill  mountains.  July. 

The  minute  colored  granules,  which  give  the  pileus  a  soft  pruinose 
appearance,  are  easily  rubbed  off  on  paper,  and  water  put  upon  the 
fresh  specimens  is  colored  by  them.  Peck,  24th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

New  York,  Peck,  24th  and  5oth  Rep.  ;  West  Virginia,  1882-1885  ;  Mt. 
Gretna,  Pa.,  solitary  in  mixed  woods.  July  to  September.  1897-1898. 
Mcllvaine. 

It  is  on  a  par  with  most  Russulae. 

R.  ochra'cea  Fr. — ochra,  a  yellow  earth.  Mild.  Pileus  about  3  in. 
across.  Flesh  rather  thick  at  the  center,  becoming  thin  toward  the 
margin,  pale  ochraceous,  soft;  convex  then  expanded  and  depressed, 
•  margin  coarsely  striate,  pellicle  thin,  viscid,  ochraceous  with  a  tinge  of 
'yellow,  disk  usually  becoming  darker.  Gills  slightly  adnexed,  broad, 
scarcely  crowded,  ochraceous.  Stem  about  I  %  in.  long,  5-7  lines 
thick,  slightly  wrinkled  longitudinally,  ochraceous,  stuffed,  soft. 

Spores  globose,  echinulate,  ochraceous,  io-i2p.  diameter. 

In  pine  and  mixed  woods. 

The  mild  taste  and  ochraceous  color  of  every  part,  including  the  flesh, 
separate  the  present  from  every  other  species. 

Commonly  confounded  with  Russula  fellea,  but  known  at  once  by  its 
mild  taste.  Agreeing  most  nearly  with  R.  lutea  in  color,  but  differing 
in  the  softer  flesh,  which  becomes  ochraceous  upward;  sulcate  margin 
of  the  pileus,  and  broader,  less  crowded  gills.  •  Pileus  persistently 
ochraceous,  disk  usually  darker.  Stem  sometimes  yellow,  sometimes 
white.  Fries. 

North  Carolina,  borders  of  woods,  Ctirtis;  California,  Harkness  and 
Moore. 

Fries  says  that  the  flavor  is  mild,  but  Roze  places  it  in  the  list  of  sus- 
pected species,  although  he  notes  it  as  not  acrid  ;  it  may  be  inferred  that 
he  considers  the  flavor  unpleasant.  Macadam. 

"Like  chicken,"  not  common.     Boston  Myc.  Club  Bull.  1896. 

210 


Leucosporee 

R.  lll'tea  (Huds.)  Fr. — luteus,  yellow.  Pileus  1-2  in.  broad,  yel-  Russtda. 
low,  at  length  becoming  pale,  and  occasionally  wholly  white,  thinly 
fleshy,  soon  convexo-plane  or  piano-depressed,  sticky  when  moist,  even 
or  when  old  obsoletely  striate  at  the  margin.  Flesh  white.  Stem  ^ 
in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick,  stuffed  then  hollow,  soft,  fragile,  equal,  even, 
white,  never  reddish.  Gills  somewhat  free,  connected  by  veins,  crowded, 
narrow,  all  equal,  ochraceous-egg-yellow. 

Always  small,  very  regular,  taste  mild.  When  young  the  pileus  is 
always  of  a  beautiful  yellow.  Fries. 

Spores  yellow,  echinulate,  8/x,  W.G.S.;  globose,  rough,  6-7/*  C.B.P.;     . 
8-IOX7-8/*  Massee. 

Allied  to  R.  vitellina,  but  differs  in  having  the  margin  of  the  cap 
even,  and  but  little  odor. 

The  plant  I  have  so  referred  has  the  gills  at  first  white  and  the  stem 
yellow  like  the  pileus;  it  may  be  a  new  species.  In  beech  woods, 
Morgan;  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  in  mixed  woods, 
often  under  beeches,  August  to  November,  Mcllvaine. 

The  plants  I  have  found  have  white  gills  when  young  (few  species 
have  not),  but  rapidly  become  yellow.  The  stem  is  usually  white  when 
young,  and  sometimes  remains  so,  but  often  becomes  more  or  less 
yellow. 

It  is  a  pretty  species.  The  flavor  is  not  as  strong  as  in  some  species, 
but  is  delicate. 

R.  nauseo'sa  Fr.  Pileus  variable  in  color,  typically  purplish  at  the 
disk,  then  livid,  but  becoming  pale  and  often  whitish,  laxly  fleshy,  thin, 
at  first  piano-gibbous,  then  depressed,  viscid  in  wet  weather,  furrowed 
and  somewhat  tubercular  at  the  somewhat  membranaceous  margin. 
Flesh  soft,  white.  Stem  short,  about  I  in.  long,  4  lines  thick,  spongy- 
stuffed,  slightly  striate,  white.  Gills  adnexed,  ventricose,  somewhat 
distant,  here  and  there  with  a  few  shorter  ones  intermixed,  light  yellow 
then  dingy  ochraceous. 

The  taste  is  mild,  but  also  nauseous,  as  the  odor  often  is.  The  habit 
is  that  of  R.  nitida,  of  the  same  color  of  pileus,  but  differing  in  the  color 
of  the  gills.  Fries. 

Cap  about  2  in.  across.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  %—%  in.  thick. 

Spores  dingy  yellow,  8-9/4  diameter.      Massee. 

North  Carolina  and  Pennsylvania,  Schweinitz;  West  Virginia,  Penn- 

211 


Agaricaceae 

Eussuia.  sylvania,  New  Jersey,  in  pine  and  mixed  woods.     August  to  October. 
Mcllvaine. 

The  odor  and  taste  of  R.  nauseosa  are  misnamed,  therefore  the  plant. 
They  are  heavy  at  times,  when  the  plant  is  wet  or  old,  as  is  the  case 
with  R.  fcetens,  but  they  are  always  of  cherry  bark.  Both  odor  and 
taste  disappear  in  cooking.  The  species  is  as  good  as  any  Russula  of 
its  texture. 

H.  vitelli'na  Fr. — vitellus,  yolk  of  egg.  Pileus  i  in.  broad,  uni- 
•  colorous,  light  yellow  then  wholly  pallid,  somewhat  membranaceous,  at 
length  tuberculoso-striate ,  somewhat  dry,  disk  very  small,  slightly  fleshy. 
Stem  thin,  scarcely  exceeding  I  in.  long,  2  lines  thick,  equal.  Gills 
separating-free,  equal,  distant,  rather  thick,  connected  by  veins,  saffron- 
yellow. 

Pretty,  very  fragile,   strong-smelling,  mild.     Fries. 

Spores  7-8/u,  diameter  Massee. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  August  to  October.  In 
pine  and  mixed  woods,  July  to  October.  Not  common  in  number. 

This  pretty  species  has  a  cherry-bark  taste  and  smell  like  R.  fcetens, 
though  not  so  offensively  heavy.  It  is  not  poisonous.  A  small  piece 
of  it  will  affect  a  whole  dish  of  other  Russulae. 

R.  chamseleonti'na  Fr. — changing  color  like  a  chamaeleon.  Pileus 
1-2  in.  broad,  thinly  fleshy,  soon  flattened,  sometimes  oblique  .with  a 
thin,  separable,  viscid  pellicle,  which  is  at  first  flesh-color,  then  pres- 
ently changing  color,  becoming  yellow  at  the  disk  and  at  length  wholly 
yellow,  margin  even,  then  slightly  striate.  Stem  as  much  as  3  in.  long, 
but  thin,  somewhat  hollow,  slightly  striate,  white.  Gills  more  or  less 
adnexed,  thin,  crowded,  equal,  narrow,  somewhat  forked,  light-yellow- 
ochraceous. 

Mild,  inodorous,  very  fragile.  Pileus  rosy  blood-red,  purplish  lilac, 
etc.  Sometimes  even  at  the  first  yellowish  at  the  disk.  Fries. 

Spores  globose,  ochraceous,  7-8/*  diameter  Massee. 

In  pine  and  in  mixed  woods.      August  to  October.     Mcllvaine. 

The  change  in  color  of  the  cap  which  gives  name  to  this  species  is 
not  remarkable.  Most  species  of  Russulae  are  sensitive  to  light.  An 
otherwise  highly  colored  cap  will  be  almost  white  when  a  leaf  adheres 
to  it.  If  in  youth  it  grows  under  dense  shade  it  will  be  very  much 

212 


Leucosporae 

lighter  than  if  where  light  is  generous,  and  will  remain  so.  If  in  grow- 
ing  it  thrusts  itself  out  of  shadow,  its  color  will  change  and  it  will 
deepen.  The  apparent  rarity  of  R.  chamasleontina  I  think  due  to  the 
close  observation  necessary  to  detect  its  changes  in  color,  which,  as  I 
have  found  it,  are  by  no  means  constant.  It  is  quite  plentiful  in  the 
pines  of  southern  New  Jersey,  and  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  it  is  frequently 
found. 

It  is  a  good  esculent  species. 


Agaricaceee 

CANTHAREL'LUS  Adans. 
Gr. — a  vase,  a  cup. 

Canthareiius.        Hymenophore  continuous  with  the  stem,  descending  unchanged  into 
the  trama.     Gills  thick,  fleshy,  waxy,  fold-like,  somewhat  branched, 

obtuse  at  the  edge.     Spores  white.      Fleshy, 
putrescent  fungi,  without  a  veil.      Fries. 

In  Canthareiius  the  gills — vein-like  and  gen- 
erally thick  with  an  obtuse  edge — are  entirely 
different  from  those  of  all  the  preceding 
genera.  In  those  they  are  thin,  and  distinct 
from  the  pileus  and  from  each  other.  In 

Hygrophorus  the  gills  are  frequently  thick, 
CANTHARELLUS  CIBARIUS. 

but  the  edge  is  always  sharp.     The  species 

of  Craterellus  are  funnel-shaped,  resembling  some  of  those  in  Cantha- 
reiius, but  are  distinguished  by  their  lack  of  evident  gills. 

Monograph  New  York  Species  of  Canthareiius,  Peck,  Bull.  1887. 

The  members  of  this  genus  are  few,  but  they  are  choice.  Of  them 
is  the  Canthareiius  cibarius,  of  which  Trattinik  quaintly  says :  "Not 
only  this  same  fungus  never  did  any  one  harm,  but  might  even  restore 
the  dead." 

The  writer  first  made  its  acquaintance  when  among  the  West  Virginia 
mountains  in  1881.  The  golden  patches  of  single  and  clustered 
cibarius,  fragrant  as  ripened  apricots,  tufting  the  short  grass  or  mossy 
ground  under  beeches,  oaks  and  like-growing  trees,  through  which  the 
sunlight  filtered  generously,  were  so  tempting,  that  he  determined  there 
must  be  luxury,  even  in  death,  from  such  toadstools. 

Experiments  made  by  the  writer  in  West  Virginia  where  the  species 
grows  luxuriantly  and  is  of  much  higher  flavor  than  any  he  has  found 
elsewhere,  prove  that  it  is  easy  to  transplant  within  congenial  habitats, 
either  by  the  mycelium  or  spores.  Nature,  there,  resorts  to  washing 
masses  of  leaves  containing  the  propagating  parts  of  the  fungus  along 
the  depressions  of  the  water-sheds,  and  it  is  found  growing  plentifully 
where  the  wind  has  drifted  forest  leaves  against  trees,  brush,  and  fence- 
corners. 

Other  species  of  the  genus  do  not,  as  a  rule,  grow  so  plentifully, 
neither  are  they  of  equal  excellence,  but  several  of  them  are  equal  to 

2i4 


PLATE  XLVI. 


Grouped  by  F.  I).  Briscoe — Studies  by  ('.  Mdlvalne. 


FIG. 

1.  , 

1'.       MllKCIIKI.I.A   KSCn.KNTA. 

3.    CBATKBELLUS  CA.NTHAKKLLUS, 


PAGE.  FIG. 

4.    CANTHAJBBLUJS  ciBABf <rs,  ' 

542  5.      ('AXTIIAItKLLfS  HKKVM'KS 

508 


PAGE. 

215 

219 


Leucosporae 

any  other  species.      Suspicion  has  been  thrown  upon  C.  aurantiacus.   Canthareiiua 
There  is   such  a  marked  difference  between  the  excellence  of  the  genus 
in  West  Virginia  and  other  localities,  that  it  is  possible  C.  aurantiacus 
may  be  noxious  elsewhere,  but  the  writer   has  not  found  it  so ;  and  it 
would  be  an  astonishing  contradiction  of  Nature's  ways  if  it  was. 

Stevenson  says:  "It  (C.  cibarius)  must  have  four  hours  slow  cook- 
ing." The  writer  has  found  thirty  minutes  to  be  sufficient;  and  it  will 
fry  in  butter  as  quickly  as  any  other  fungus. 


ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

MESOPUS  (mesos,  middle;  potts,  a  foot).     Page  215. 

Stem  central. 
*Stem  solid. 
**Stem  tubular. 

PLEUROPUS  (pleura,  the  side;  pous,  a  foot). 
Stem  lateral. 

RESUPINATUS  (resupinatus ,  lying  on  the  back) . 
Stem  absent. 

All  the  species  known  to  be  edible  belong  to  Mesopus. 


ME'SOPUS. 
*  Stem  solid. 

C.  ciba'rius  Fr. — cibaria,  food.  (Plate  XLVI,  fig.  4,  p.  .  214. 
Plate  XLVII.)  PileilS  fleshy,  obconic,  smooth,  egg-yellow,  slightly 
depressed.  Gills  thick,  distant,  more  or  less  branching  and  anastomos- 
ing, concolorous.  Stem  firm,  solid,  often  tapering  downward,  con- 
colorous.  Flesh  white. 

Height  2-4  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  2-3  in.      Stem  3-6  lines  thick. 

In  open  woods  and  grassy  places.     Common.     July  and  August. 

Edible.  The  smell  of  apricots  is  not  always  clearly  perceptible  in 
American  specimens.  Peck,  Monograph  New  York  Species  of  Can- 
tharellus,  Rep.  23. 

215 


Agaricaceae 
CanthareUus.        Spores  6x8/4  W.G.S.;  7.6x5/4  Morgan;  spheroid-ellipsoid,  8-9x5-6/4 


(Plate  XLVII.) 


CANTHARELLUS  CIBARIUS. 


Reported  from  the  Atlantic  to 
the  Pacific  and  from  Columbia 
river  to  Louisiana.  June  to  Sep- 
tember. 

Wherever  grown  C.  cibarius  is 
one  of  the  best.  In  European 
countries  it  is  highly  rated,  and 
is  expensive.  Its  mode  of  growth 
varies  with  its  plentifulness.  In 
the  West  Virginia  mountains  large 
patches  of  it  closely  cover  the 
ground.  Clusters  weighing  % 
pound  are  frequent. 

When  shredded,  or  cut  across 
the  fibers,  slow  cooking  for  half 
an  hour  is  sufficient,  if  the  plants 
are  fresh.  If  gathered  for  some> 
hours,  they  should  be  soaked  for 
a  time. 


C.  mi'nor  Pk.  Pileus  fleshy,  thin,  convex  then  expanded  and  de- 
pressed, egg-yellow.  Grills  very  narrow,  distant,  sparingly  branched, 
yellowish.  Stem  slender,  subflexuous,  equal,  smooth,  hollow  or  stuffed, 
concolorous. 

Height  1-2  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  6-12  lines. 

In  open  woods.     July.     Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  6.4-7.6x4-5/4  Peck. 

West  Virginia,  New  York,  Pennsylvania.     Mcllvaine. 

Grows  in  the  West  Virginia  mountains,  along  with  C.  cibarius,  and 
separate  from  it.  It  is  more  tender  than  C.  cibarius,  and  not  equal  in 
flavor  to  those  found  there.  I  usu'ally  cooked  them  together  and  thus 
got  quantity  well  flavored. 

C. auranti'acus  Fr. — orange-yellow.   (Plate  CXXXVI,  fig.  4,  p. . ) 

Pileus  fleshy,  obconic,  nearly  plane  above,  smooth  or  minutely  tomen- 
tose,  dull  orange  with  the  disk  usually  brownish,  the  margin  decurved 

216 


Leucosporse 

and    sometimes    yellowish.     Gills    narrow,    close,    repeatedly    forked,   Canthareiius 
orange,  sometimes  yellowish.    Stem  inequal,  generally  tapering  upward, 
colored  like  the  pileus.      Flesh  yellowish,  taste  mild. 

Height  2-3  in.,  breadth  of  Pileus  1-3  in.      Stem  2-4  lines  thick. 

Ground  and  very  rotten  logs  in  woods  or  in  fields.  Common.  Peck, 
23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  6.4-7.6x4-5^  Peck,  ioxS/t  Massee. 

Var.  pallidus  Pk.     Pileus  and  gills  pale  yellow  or  whitish  yellow. 

Stevenson  says  of  the  English  species,  "Unpleasant,  reckoned  pois- 
onous." The  writer's  acquaintance  with  C.  aurantiacus  has  been  prin- 
cipally confined  to  West  Virginia.  There  its  taste  is  mild,  scent  but  lit- 
tle, flavor  not  distinguishable  from  eastern  C.  Cibarius.  There  it  is  per- 
fectly safe  and  wholesome ;  neither  have  the  writer  and  his  friends  any 
reason  for  condemning  it. 

C.  umbona'tllS  Fr. — having  an  umbo.  Pileus  I  in.  and  more  broad, 
ashy-blackish,  slightly  fleshy,  convex  when  young,  umbonate,  at  length 
depressed,  even,  dry,  flocculoso-stiky  on  the  surface,  shining  brightly 
especially  under  a  lens.  Flesh  soft,  white,  often  becoming  red  when 
wounded.  Stem  3  in.  long,  about  4  lines  thick,  stuffed,  equal,  elastic, 
villous  at  the  base,  ash-colored,  but  paler  than  the  pileus.  Gills  decur- 
rent,  thin,  tense  and  straight,  crowded,  repeatedly  divided  by  pairs, 
shining-white . 

Odor  and  taste  scarcely  notable.  Gregarious.  Among  the  taller 
mosses  the  stem  is  longer.  Often  overlooked  from  its  habit  being  that 
of  an  agaric.  It  varies  with  the  pileus  squamulose  and  blackish. 

In  woods.      April  to  August.      Fries. 

The  rather  prominent  gills  of  this  small  species  are  likely  to  confuse 
those  not  familiar  with  its  variance  from  the  genuine  type.  Reddish 
tinge  to  flesh  not  noticed  in  the  American  species.  The  writer  has 
gathered  it  in  several  states  and  enjoyed  it  for  many  years. 

C.  rosel'lus  Pk. — rosy.  Pileus  thin,  funnel-shaped,  regular,  glabrous, 
pale  pinkish-red.  Flesh  white.  Gills  narrow,  close,  dichotomous,  deeply 
decurrent,  whitish,  tinged  with  pink.  Stem  equal,  slender,  solid, 
subglabrous,  often  flexuous,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  minute, 
broadly  elliptical,  3.5x2.5^. 

Pileus  4-8  lines  broad.  Stem  about  I  in.  long,  scarcely  I  line  thick. 

217 


Agaricaceae 
Cantharellus.  (Plate  XLVIII.) 


CANTHARELLUS  ROSELLUS. 
Natural  size. 


Mossy  ground  in  groves  of  balsam. 
North  Elba.  September.  This  small 
species  belongs  to  the  section  Agar- 
icoides,  and  is  apparently  closely  al- 
lied to  C.  albidus,  from  which  its 
smaller  size  and  different  color  dis- 
tinguish it.  The  pileus  is  sometimes 
deeply  umbilicate.  Peck,  42d  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Frequent  in  pine  woods  of  New 
Jersey,  near  Haddonfield,  where  the 
plant  is  sturdier  than  described. 
Though  small  it  grows  gregarious 
and  in  troops  from  which  appetizing 
quantities  can  be  gathered. 

It  makes  a  pretty  dish  of  pinkish 
hue  and  one  of  rare  excellence. 


C.  lutes'cens  Bull.— yellowish.  (Plate  CXXXVI,  fig.  9,  p.  508.) 
PileilS  thin,  fleshy,  convex,  umbilicate,  brownish-floccose,  yellowish. 
Gills  very  distant,  sparingly  branched,  arcuate-decurrent,  pale  ochrace- 
ous.  Stem  slender,  slightly  tapering  downward,  smooth,  shining,  bright 
orange-tinted  yellow,  stuffed  or  hollow. 

Height  2-3  in.,  breadth  of  PileilS  8-15  lines. 

Mossy  ground  in  woods.  Catskill  and  Adirondack  mountains,  also 
Sandlake.  August  to  October. 

This  is  regarded  by  some  as  a  variety  of  A.  tubaeformis.  Peck,  23d 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

In  mixed  and  scrub-pine  woods  near  Haddonfield,  N.  J. ;  mixed 
woods  Angora  and  Kingsessing,  Philadelphia. 

Perhaps  constancy  to  C.  cibarius  has  influenced  the  writer  in  favor  of 
members  of  its  family,  and  accounts  for  the  gusto  in  "Fine"  set  opposite 
his  notes  to  the  present  species.  Nevertheless  such  is  his  opinion. 

**  Stem  tubular. 

C.  flocco'silS  Schw. — woolly.  (Plate  XLVI,  fig.  I,  p.  214.)  Pileus 
fleshy,  elongated  funnel-form  or  trumpet  shape,  floccose-squamose, 

218 


Leucosporas 


ochraceous-yellow.      Gills  vein-like,  close,  much  anastomosing  above,   Canthareiius. 
long  decurrent  and  subparallel  below,  concolorous.      Stem  very  short, 
thick,  rarely  deeply  rooting. 

Height  2-4  in.,  breadth  of  Pileus  at  the  top  1-3  in. 

Woods  and  their  borders.      Not  rare.     Utica,    Johnson.    Albany  and 
Sandlake.     July  and  August.      Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  12.5-15x7.6/4  Peck. 

New  York,   Peck,  Rep.  23  ;   Maine,  Mrs.  Stella  F.  Fairbanks;  West 
Virginia,  Mcllvaine. 

A  beautiful  species  of  good  quality. 


(Plate  XLIX.) 


C.  bre'vipes  Pk. — brevis,  short;  pest  a  foot.  (Plate  XLVI,  fig.  5,  p. 
214.)  Pileus  fleshy,  obconic,  gla- 
brous, alutaceous  or  dingy  cream- 
color,  the  thin  margin  erect,  often 
irregular  and  lobed,  tinged  with 
lilac  in  the  young  plant;  folds  nu- 
merous, nearly  straight  on  the  mar- 
gin, abundantly  anastomosing  be- 
low, pale  umber  tinged  with  lilac. 
Stem  short,  tomentose-pubescent, 
ash-colored,  solid,  often  tapering 
downward.  Spores  yellowish, 
oblong-elliptical,  uninucleate,  10— 


Ev.v.v    -v  ~w 

>P   '<#/  - 

Ki^W 

-^fjgfjT 

CANTHARELLUS  BREVIPES. 
Small  plant,  two-thirds  natural  size. 


Plant  3-4  in-  high.    Pileus  2-3 
in.  broad.      Stem  4-6  lines  thick. 

Woods.   Ballston,  Saratoga  coun- 
ty.     July. 

This  interesting  species  is  related 
to  the  C.  floccosus,  both  by  its  short 
stem  and  its  abundantly  anastomosing  folds.  The  two  species  should 
be  separated  from  the  others  and  constitute  a  distinct  section.  The 
flesh  in  C.  brevipes  is  soft  and  whitish,  and  the  folds  are  generally  thin- 
ner than  in  C.  floccosus.  Peck,  33d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Plentiful  in  West  Virginia  mountains  in  1884,  growing  in  patches. 
Found  in  mixed  woods  near  Cheltenham,  Pa.,  and  at  Springton,  Pa., 
1887. 

219 


Agaricaceae 


CanthareUus.       In  West  Virginia  it  is  prolific  and  rivals  the  C.  cibarius  in  excellence. 
The  flesh  is  softer,  not  so  fibrous,  and  cooks  more  readily. 

In  that  locality  there  is  a  marked  difference  between  C.  brevipes  and 
C.  floccosus.  The  latter  is  much  longer,  and  markedly  resembles  the 
large  end  of  a  gold  lined  cornet.  Like  the  C.  cibarius  it  is  not  of  as 
good  quality  in  eastern  states. 


Quick 


f 


Nyctalis. 


ported  in  America. 


NYC'TALlSFr. 

Gr. — night.     From  inhabiting  dark  places. 
(Plate  L.) 

/ X 

Hymenophore  continuous  with 

thestem.  Gills  fleshy,  thick,  juicy, 
obtuse  at  the  edge,  not  decurrent 
on  the  stem  nor  fold-like.  Veil 
(in  species  which  have  been  fully 
observed)  floccoso-pruinose. 

Fleshy  fungi,  not  reviving,  of 
uncertain  and  irregular  occurrence, 
differing  in  many  respects  from 
one  another  and  from  the  rest  of 
the  Agaricini.  Fries, 

The  typical  species  are  sapro- 
phytic  on  decaying  fungi.  But  one 
species,  Nyctalis  asterophora,  re- 
See  Peck,  26th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 


rvs. 
NYCTALIS  PARASITICUS. 


22O 


Leucosporee 


MARAS'MIUS  Fr. 

Gr. — to  wither  or   shrivel. 


Gills  pliant,  rather  tough,  Marasmms 

(Plate  LI.) 


MARASMIUS  OREADES. 
About  one-half  natural  size. 


Pileus  regular,  thin,  tough  and  pliant, 
somewhat  distant,  variously  at- 
tached or  free,  with  an  acute 
entire  edge.  Stem  cartilaginous  or 
horny,  continuous  with  the  pileus 
but  of  different  texture.  Not  pu- 
trescent  but  drying  up  with  lack 
of  moisture,  reviving  and  assuming 
the  original  form  with  the  advent 
of  rain.  This  character  distin- 
guishes Marasmius  from  all  other 
genera  of  Agaricaceae. 

Its  nearer  relations  are  Collybia 
and  Mycena. 

Fries  says  that  all  Agaricaceae 
having  the  smell  of  garlic  are  found 
in  this  genus.  On  the  ground,  but  generally  on  wood  or  leaves. 

Professor  Peck  reports  over  forty  species  of  this  genus  found  in  New 
York  state.  Several  not  found  in  New  York  are  reported  from  other 
states.  The  writer  has  found  a  few  such  species  in  Pennsylvania  and 
West  Virginia.  Many  untried  species  will  probably  prove  to  be  edible ; 
the  majority  are  too  small  to  be  of  food  value.  M.  urens,  reported  pois- 
onous, and  M.  peronatus,  heretofore  considered  poisonous,  have  been 
found  by  the  writer  to  be  edible.  Several  species  not  described  herein 
have  been  tested  for  edibility  to  a  limited  extent  only. 

In  this  genus  occurs  the  famed  M.  oreades,  the  Mousseron  of  France, 
the  Champignon  and  Scotch  bonnet  of  England,  the  Fairy-ring  mush- 
room of  America. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

COLLYBIA  (inclining  to  Collybia).      Page  223. 

Flesh  of  pileus  pliant,  at  length  rather  leathery,  grooved  or  wrinkled, 
margin  incurved  at  first.  Stem  somewhat  cartilaginous;  mycelium 
woolly,  absent  in  some  species. 

221 


Agaricaceee 

A.  SCORTEI  (scorteus,  leathery).     Page  223. 

Stem  solid  or  stuffed,  then  hollow,  fibrous  within,  outside  covered 
with  down.  Gills  separating  from  the  stem,  free. 

*  Base  of  stem  woolly  or  strigose. 

**  Stem  naked  at  the  base,  often  interwoven  with  twisted  fibers 

B.  TERGINI  (terginus,  leathery).      Page  225. 

Stem  rooting,  distinctly  tubular,  not  fibrous,  distinctly  cartilaginous. 
Gills  receding  then  free.  Pileus  thinner  than  in  the  preceding  group, 
hygrophanous,  even  or  with  the  margin  striate. 

*  Stem  woolly  below,  smooth  above. 

**  Stem  when  dry  covered  with  velvety  down. 

C.     CALOPODES  (  Gr. — beautiful;    Gr. — afoot).     Page  226. 
Stem  short,  not  rooting,  often  with  a  floccose  or  downy,  tubercular 
base.     Pileus  convex,  involute,  then  plane  and  more  or  less  depressed, 
in  which  state  the  gills  typically  adnate  are  subdecurrent.      On  twigs, 
branches,  etc.      Gregarious. 

*  Stem  quite  smooth  above,  shining,  base  not  swollen. 

*  Stem  covered  with  velvety  down,  rather  swollen  at  the  base. 

MYCENA  (inclining  to  Mycena).     Page  227. 

Stem  horny,  hollow,  often  filled  with  pith,  tough,  dry.  Mycelium 
rooting,  not  floccose.  Pileus  somewhat  membranaceous,  bell-shaped, 
then  expaned,  margin  at  first  straight  and  pressed  to  the  stem. 

A.     CHORDALES  (chorda,  a  gut).     Page  227. 

Stem  rigid,  rooting  or  dilated  at  the  base.  Pileus  bell-shaped  or 
convex.  Type  manifestly  that  of  Mycena. 

B.      ROTUIwE  (rotula,  a  little  wheel). 

Stem  thread-like,  flaccid,  base  not  dilated  or  floccose  but  appearing 
to  enter  the  matrix  abruptly.  Pileus  soon  becoming  plane  or  umbili- 
cate.  On  leaves. 

*  Stem  quite  smooth,  shining. 

**  Stem  minutely  velvety  or  hairy. 

APUS  (#,  without;  pous,  a  foot). 
Pileus  sessile,  resupinate. 

222 


Leucosporae 

I. — COLLY'BIA. 

A.       SCORTEI. 

*  Stem  woolly  or  strigose  at  base. 

M.  u'rens  Fr. — uro,  to  burn.     Pileus  2-3   in.  broad,  unicolorous, 

pale  yellowish,  becoming  pale,  slightly  fleshy,  moderately  compact  at  the 
disk,  even,  but  here  and  there  scaly  or  cracked  in  wavy  lines  when  dry, 
smooth,  the  thin  margin  involute.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  3  lines  thick, 
solid,  composed  of  crisp  tough  fibers,  rigid,  equal,  sometimes  however 
ventricose,  %  in.  thick,  everywhere  clothed  with  white  ftocci,  pale,  white- 
downy  at  the  base.  Gills  free,  united  behind,  at  length  remote  from  the 
stem,  distant,  tough,  at  first  pale-wood-color,  then  brown. 

Gregarious,  somewhat  cespitose.  Taste  very  stinging.  The  stem  is 
not  strigosely  sheathed  at  the  base.  Fries. 

In  mixed  woods.      Frequent.     June  to  September. 

A  curious  form  occurred  with  the  pileus  turning  very  dark  when  full- 
grown.  B.  and  Br.  POISONOUS.  Worthington  Smith  has  tested  it 
by  accident.  It  produced  headache,  swimming  of  brain,  burning  in 
throat  and  stomach,  followed  by  severe  purging  and  vomiting.  Steven- 
son. 

Gregarious  or  cespitose.  Taste  very  pungent,  a  feature  which  sepa- 
rates the  present  from  M.  oreades.  Not  coarsely  tomentose  at  the  base, 
as  in  M.  peronatus,  but  only  downy.  Massee. 

Spores  3X4/x  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  8x47*  Massee. 

Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  West  Virginia.     Mcllvaine. 

I  have  not  known  it  to  disagree  with  myself  or  friends.  That  it  may 
not  agree  with  some  persons  is  unquestioned.  Collectors  should  care- 
fully test  it  upon  themselves. 

M.  perona'tus  Fr. — pero,  a  kind  of  boot.     Pileus  1-2  in.  and  more 

broad,  light  yellowish  or  pallid  brick-red,  then  becoming  pale,  wood- 
color  or  tan,  at  first  fleshy-pliant,  then  coriaceo-membranaceous ,  convex 
then  plane,  obtuse,  flaccid,  slightly  wrinkled,  even  at  the  disk,  at  length 
pitted,  striate  at  the  margin.  Flesh  white.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  1-2 
lines  thick,  stuffed,  fibrous,  tough,  attenuated  upward,  at  length  hollow 
and  compressed,  furnished  with  a  bark,  light  yellow  then  pallid,  cuticle 
villous  but  separating  and  reddish  when  rubbed,  somewhat  incurved  at 
the  base,  where  it  is  clothed  with  dense,  somewhat  strigose,  yellowish  or 

223 


Agaricacese 

Marasmius.  white  villous  down.  Grills  adnexed,  then  separating,  free,  moderately 
thin,  and  crowded,  when  young  whitish,  pallid  wood-color,  at  length 
somewhat  remote,  reddish. 

B.  Woolly  sheathed  at  the  base.  Taste  acrid  like  that  of  M.  urens, 
odor  none.  Fries. 

In  woods.      Common.      Stevenson. 

Spores  pip-shaped,  7x4^  W.G.S.;  10x6-7 >t  Massee, 

New  York.  Thin  woods.  North  Elba.  August.  September.  Peck, 
42d  Rep. ;  West  Virginia,  June  to  December,  West  Philadelphia  and 
Mt.  Gretna,  Chester  county,  Pa.  Mcllvaine. 

M.  peronatus  is  the  wood-cousin  of  M.  oreades.  It  is  still  reputed 
poisonous  by  all  writers  upon  the  subject,  though  M.  C.  Cooke  gives  it 
the  benefit  of  a  doubt.  The  name  is  given  because  of  the  base  of  the 
stem  being  densely  covered  with  short  hairs  or  a  woolly  down,  and  is 
thus  easily  recognized.  It  is  common  in  woods,  among  decaying 
leaves,  especially  of  the  oak,  from  May  until  after  frosts.  It  is  usually 
solitary,  but  a  few  individuals  are  sometimes  clustered.  It  is  quite 
peppery  to  the  taste,  but  pleasantly  so.  I  have  repeatedly  eaten  it, 
as  have  my  friends.  It  loses  its  acridity  in  cooking,  and  though  the 
caps  are  tougher  than  M.  oreades,  they  make  a  highly  flavored  and 
delicious  dish.  Collectors  should  carefully  test  it  for  themselves. 

**  Stem  naked  at  the  base,  etc. 

M.  ore'ades  Fr.  Gr. — mountain-nymphs.  Scotch  bonnet.  Cham- 
pignon. Mousseron.  (Plate  LI,  p.  221.)  Pileus  1-2  in.  broad, 
reddish  then  becoming  pale,  absorbing  moisture,  whitish  when  dry, 
fleshy,  pliant,  convex  then  plane,  somewhat  umbonate,  even,  smooth, 
slightly  striate  at  the  margin  when  moist.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  i  %  lines 
thick,  solid,  very  tough,  equal,  tense  and  straight,  everywhere  clothed 
with  a  villons-woven  cuticle  which  can  be  rubbed  off,  pallid ;  bluntly 
rooted  at  the  base,  naked,  not  villous  or  tomentose.  Gills  free,  broad, 
distant,  the  alternate  ones  shorter,  at  first  soft,  then  firmer,  pallid- 
white. 

Odor  weak,  but  pleasant,  stronger  when  dried,  taste  mild.  Commonly 
growing  in  circles  or  rows.  Fries. 

Spores  6-7x5-6/x  K.;  elliptical,  8x5/x  Massee;  nearly  elliptical,  white, 
7.6-9/u.  long  Peck. 

Common  throughout  the  states  during  the  summer  months  after  rains, 

224 


Leucosporse 

and  in  rings,  but  can  be  found  from  May  until  after  frost.    If  one  knows  Marasmius. 
where  the  rings  are  to  be  found   M.  oreades  can   be  gathered  when 
shriveled,  and  are  quite  as  good,  after  soaking,  as  when  fresh. 

M.  oreades  must  be  sought  for  where  the  grass  is  luxuriant.  It  hides 
among  it.  It  is  well  worthy  of  the  search.  Raw,  fresh  or  shriveled, 
it  is  sweet,  nutty,  succulent  when  eaten;  stewed  well  it  is  delicious. 
Though  tough  its  consistency  is  agreeable.  The  most  delicate  stomachs 
can  digest  it.  The  writer  saved  the  life  of  a  lovely  woman  by  feeding 
her  upon  it  when  nothing  else  could  be  retained ;  and  of  another,  by 
feeding  Coprinus  micaceus,  after  a  dangerous  operation.  He  introduced 
these  species,  together  with  a  few  others,  into  a  large  hospital  in  Phila- 
delphia, where  they  were  used  with  marked  beneficial  effect,  and  such 
use  is  now  widespread. 

When  dried,  by  exposure  to  the  air  or  sun,  it  can  be  kept  indefinitely, 
neither  losing  its  aroma  or  flavor,  which  it  graciously  imparts  to  soups 
or  any  other  dish. 

Collybia  dryophila,  Stropharia  semi-globata,  and  Naucoria  semi- 
orbicularis  are  sometimes  found  growing  with  it.  These  species  are 
delicious  and  harmless. 

Lafayette  B.  Mendel  in  the  Am.  Jour,  of  Physiology,  March,  1898, 
gives  the  following  analysis : 

Twenty  freshly  gathered  specimens  (from  New  Haven)  weighed  9 
grams,  an  average  weight  of  0.45  grams  each.  The  analysis  gave: 

Water  74-96% 

Total  solids 2S-°4 

Total  nitrogen  of  dry  substance 5.97 

Ash  of  dry  substance 7.23 

B.    TERGINI. 

*  *  Stem  downy  when  dry,  etc. 

M.  Wyn'nei  B.  and  Br.  Pileus  1-1%  in.  broad,  /z'/ar-brown,  tardily 
changing  color,  fleshy,  convexo-plane,  somewhat  umbonate.  Stem  2 
in.  long,  i  /£  line  thick,  tubed,  furfuraceous,  somewhat  of  the  same 
color  as  the  pileus.  Gills  adnexed,  thick,  distant,  bright-colored,  beau- 
tifully tinged  with  lilac;  interstices  even. 

Inodorous.     Gregarious  or  cespitose.     The  stem  springs  from  a  white 
mycelium,  but  is  by  no  means  strigose  or  tawny  at  the  base.   Quite  dis- 
tinct from  M.  fusco-purpureus.     Fries. 
15  225 


Agaricaceae 

Marasmius.       Among  leaves,  twigs,  etc.     Stevenson. 

Spores  elliptical,  7— 8x4//.  Massee. 

Kingsessing,  West  Philadelphia.  Gregarious  and  cespitose,  among 
leaves,  etc.,  in  oak  woods.  September  to  October,  1885. 

This  very  pretty  fungus  very  much  resembles  at  first  sight  the  small 
purplish  Clitocybes,  but  is  readily  distinguished  on  examination.  I  ate 
the  caps  and  enjoyed  them  during  the  seasons  of  1885  and  1887,  but 
have  not  seen  the  plant  since. 

The  caps  are  equal  to  M.  oreades. 

C.    CALOPODES. 
*  Stem  smooth,  etc. 

M.  SCOrodo'nius  Fr.  Gr. — a  plant  that  smells  like  garlic.  PileilS 
-/•i.  in.  and  more  broad,  rufous  when  young,  but  soon  becoming  pale, 
whitish  (not  hygrophanous),  slightly  fleshy,  pliant,  convex  then  soon 
plane,  obtuse,  always  arid ;  even  when  young,  at  length  wrinkled  and 
crisped.  Stem  I  in.  long,  scarcely  I  line  thick,  horny,  tough,  tubed, 
equal,  very  smooth  throughout,  shining,  reddish,  inserted  and  naked  at 
the  base.  Gills  adnatc,  often  separating,  connected  by  veins,  at  length 
crisped  in  drying,  whitish. 

Commonly  gregarious.  Readily  distinguished  from  neighboring  spe- 
cies by  its  strong  odor  of  garlic.  Fries. 

Heaths  and  dry  pastures  on  twigs,  etc.      Rare. 

Edible.      Esteemed  for  flavoring.     Stevenson. 

Spores  elliptical,  6x4/i  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinits,  Curtis ;  New  England,  Frost;  New  Jer- 
sey, Ellis ;  New  York,  August,  Peck,  2$d  Rep. 

M.  ca'lopus  Fr.  Gr. — beautiful;  afoot.  PileilS  about  4  lines  broad, 
whitish,  slightly  fleshy,  tough,  convex  then  flattened,  obtuse,  rarely 
depressed,  even,  smooth,  slightly  wrinkled  when  dried.  Stem  I  in. 
long,  i  line  thick,  tubed,  slightly  attenuated  upward,  even,  smooth, 
tough,  dull-red  or  bay-brown-red,  shining,  somewhat  rooted.  Gills 
slightly  emarginate,  in  groups  of  2-4,  thin,  white. 

Inodorous.  Almost  smaller  than  M.  scorodonius,  but  the  stem  is 
longer,  otherwise  very  like  it.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  7x4/1*  Mussee. 

226 


Leucosporas 

Twigs  and  stems  among  fallen  leaves  in  woods.  Ticonderoga.  Au- 
gust. 

This  might  easily  be  mistaken  for  M.  scorodonius,  but  it  is  without 
odor,  and  has  a  different  insertion  of  the  lamellae.  It  is  sometimes  ces- 
pitose.  The  pileus  in  our  specimens  is  whitish.  Peck,  3ist  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Because  of  its  similarity  to  M.  scorodonius,  which  is  edible,  it  is 
given  here. 

II. — MYCENA. 

A.     CHORDALES. 

M.  allia'ceus  Fr. — allium,  garlic.  Pileus  I— I  ^  in.  broad,  whitish 
inclining  to  fuscous,  often  milk-white  when  young,  somewhat  men>- 
branaceous,  campanulate  then  expanded,  somewhat  umbonate,  even,  at 
length  striate  and  sulcate,  smooth,  dry.  Stem  as  much  as  8  in.  long, 
horny,  rigid,  fistulose,  attenuated  upward,  pruinato-velvety ,  blackish, 
rooted  at  the  base  where  it  is  somewhat  incurved  and  naked.  Gills  ad- 
nexed  in  the  form  of  a  ring,  then  free,  slightly  ventricose,  arid,  slightly 
distant,  fuscous-whitish,  crisped  when  dry. 

Odor  strong,  of  garlic,  persistent.  There  is  nothing  of  a  reddish 
tinge  in  the  whole  plant.  The  stem  is  not  tomentose  at  the  base  as  in 
the  Tergini.  Fries. 

Among  leaves  and  on  rotten  wood.  Frequent.  August  to  October. 
Stevenson . 

Spores  i4-i6x8/A  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Pennsylvania,  Schvueinitz;  Min- 
nesota, Johnson;  Novia  Scotia,  Somers. 

Edible.     Bull.  Boston  Myc.  Club. 


227 


Agaricaceaa 

HELIOMYCES  Lev. 

Helios,  the  sun;   myces,  a  fungus. 

Heiiomyces.  PileuS  membranaceous,  between  leathery  and  gelatinous,  radiately 
sulcate.  Gills  equal,  edge  acute.  Stem  somewhat  woody,  cylindrical, 
central. 

Allied  to  Marasmius,  but  differing  in  its  sub-gelatinous  substance. 

None  reported  edible. 


(Plate  LII.) 


LENTI'NUS  Fr. 
Lentus,  tough  or  pliant. 

Lentinus.       PileuS  fleshy-coriaceous,  pliant,  tough  and  hard  when  old,  persistent. 

Gills  becoming  dry,  tough,  simple, 
unequal,  thin,  margin  acute,  toothed, 
more   or  less  decurrent.    Stem  when 
present  central,  excentric  or  lateral, 
hard  and  firm,  continuous  with  the 
flesh  of  the  pileus. 
Growing  on  wood. 
Spores    somewhat    round,    even, 
white. 

Distinguished  from  other  coriace- 
ous genera  by  its  serrated  and  torn 
gills. 

"The  genera  Lentinus  and  Len- 
zites  are  found  in  every  region  of  the 
world ;  their  principal  center,  how- 
ever, is  in  hot  countries,  where  they 
attain  a  splendid  development.  On 

the   contrary,    toward   the   north   they   rapidly  decrease   in   number." 
Fungi.      Cooke  and  Berkeley. 

In  habitat  and  mode  of  growth  Lentinus  closely  resembles  Pleurotus, 
and  parallel  genera  with  colored  spores.  When  young  the  species  are 
inviting,  and  when  well  cooked  are  meal-giving.  They  are  not  delica- 
cies, but  substantials.  They  dry  well.  Grated  they  make  soups,  and 
give  their  pleasant  flavor  to  any  dish. 

228 


SECTION  OF  LENTINUS. 


Leucosporae 


ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

MESOPODES  (niesos,  middle;  pous,  a  foot).     Page  229. 
Stem  distinct. 

PLEUROTI  (pleura,  a  side;  ous,  an  ear  ). 
Stem  lateral  or  absent.     None  known  to  be  edible. 

I. — MESO'PODES  (center-stemmed). 

L.  Lecom'tei  Fr.  Pileus  coriaceous,  funnel-shaped,  regularly  re- 
flexed,  hairy,  tawny.  Gills  crowded,  pallid.  Stem  short,  hairy,  tawny. 

Common  to  the  states. 

Professor  Peck  writes  to  me:  "This  plant,  by  reason  of  its  rather 
tough  substance,  has  commonly  been  referred  to  Lentinus,  under  the 
name  L.  Lecomtei  Schw.,  but  this  reference  is  scarcely  satisfactory  to 
me,  since  the  edge  of  the  lamellae  is  scarcely  at  all  serrate  as  required 
by  that  genus.  It  seems  to  me  it  would  go  better  under  the  genus 
Panus.  It  is  variable — sometimes  eccentric  or  even  lateral.  It  is  some- 
times called  Lentinus  strigosus,  but  I  do  not  think  the  two  are  distinct 
species,  however  distinct  they  may  be  in  form."  February  26,  1894. 

Like  all  Lentinus  the  present  species  is  rather  tough,  yet  chopped 
into  small  pieces,  well  cooked  and  seasoned,  it  is  quite  equal  to  P. 
ostreatus  and  many  others  of  high  renown. 

L.  tigri'nus  Fr. — tigris,  a  tiger.     From  the  markings.     PileilS  com- 


(Plate  LIU.) 


monly  2  in.  broad,  white,  variegated 
with  somewhat  adpressed,  blackish, 
hairy  squamules,  fleshy-coriaceous, 
thin,  commonly  orbicular  and  cen- 
tral, at  first  convexo-plane,  umbili- 
cate,  at  length  funnel-shaped,  often 
split  at  the  margin  when  dry.  Stem 
about  2  in.  long,  thin,  solid,  very 
hard,  commonly  attenuated  down- 
ward, minutely  squamulose,  whitish, 
often  ascending  and  becoming  dingy- 
brown  at  the  base,  at  first  furnished 
nf  flic  apex  with  an  entire  re  flexed  ring,  which  soon  falls  off.  Gills  de- 

229 


LENTINUS  TIGRINUS. 
About  one-half  natural  size. 


Agaricaceae 

Lentinus.  current  (by  no  means  sinuate),  narrow,  crowded,  unequal,  toothed  like 
a  saw,  white. 

Somewhat  gregarious,  even  cespitose,  thinner  and  more  coriaceous 
and  regular  than  L.  lepideus  B.,  wholly  blackish  with  squamules.  Fries. 

On  old  stumps.      Rare.      Stevenson. 

When  fresh  very  tender  and  easily  torn,  when  dry  coriaceous.  Sow. 
Smell  strong,  acrid,  like  that  of  some  Lactarii.  M.  J .  B. 

Spores  6.6x3.3/4  Morgan;  elliptical,  smooth,  7x3.5/4  Massee. 

Agreeable  taste  and  odor,  eaten  in  Europe.      Roques. 

Edible,  tough  when  old  and  never  very  delicate  or  digestible. — M. 
C.  Cooke. 

Not  found  in  sufficient  quantity  to  test. 

lepi'deus  Fr.  Gr. — scaly.  (Plate  XVI,  fig.  3,  4, 
p.  52.)  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  pallid-ochraceous, 
variegated  with  adpressed,  darker,  spot-like  scales , 
fleshy,  very  compact  and  firm,  irregular,  com- 
monly excentric,  convex  then  depressed,  but  not 
truly  umbilicate,  sometimes  broken  up  into  cracks. 

Flesh  pliant,   white.      Stem  short,   commonly  I  in.  long,  solid,   stout, 
very  irregularly  formed,  almost  woody,  tomentose-scaly,  whitish,  rooted 
at  the  base,  at  the  first  furnished  with  a  veil  toward  the  apex.     Gills 
decurrent,    but   sinuate  behind,    crowded    broad,    transversely  striate, 
whitish,  edge  torn  into  teeth. 
Odor  pleasant.     Fries. 
Spores  11x5/4  W.G.S.,  7x3/4  Massee. 

Lentinus  lepideus  is  a  sort  of  commercial  traveler.  It  is  common 
wherever  railroads  are.  It  is  partial  to  oak  ties  and  its  mycelium  is  in- 
jurious to  them.  It  is  found  upon  pine  and  other  timbers.  The  writer 
has  collected  large  clusters  of  it  from  oak  sawdust.  The  European 
plant  is  noted  as  "almost  always  solitary."  In  the  United  States  it  is 
seldom  so.  It  is  noted  as  growing  in  damp,  dark  places,  but  it  loves 
the  sim. 

As  a  food  it  is  about  on  a  par  with  P.  ulmarius,  not  as  tough,  but 
harder  when  old.  It  is  a  reliable  species  from  spring  until  late  autumn, 
is  persistent  and  dries  well.  It  is  neat,  handsome,  prolific.  When 
young  it  makes  a  good  dish,  and  when  old  can  be  used  to  advantage  in 
soups. 

230 


Leucosporse 

L.  COChlea'tllS  Fr. — cochlea,  a  snail.  Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  flesh- 
color,  but  becoming  pale,  somewhat  tan,  fleshy-pliant,  thin,  com- 
monly excentric,  imbricated,  very  unequal,  somewhat  lobed  or  con- 
torted, sometimes  plane,  sometimes  funnel-shaped-umbilicate,  but  not 
pervious,  smooth.  Stem  solid,  firm,  sometimes  central,  most  frequently 
excentric,  sometimes  wholly  lateral,  always  snlcate,  smooth,  flesh-colored 
upward,  reddish-brown  downward.  Gills  decurrent,  crowded,  serrated, 
white-flesh-color.  Fries. 

Pliant,  tough,  flaccid,  very  changeable  in  form,  sometimes  solitary, 
sometimes  cespitose,  imbricated,  growing  into  each  other.  From  very 
small  forms  which  are  commonly  solitary,  with  the  stem  and  pileus 
scarcely  I  in',  it  ranges  to  3  in. 

On  stumps.      Frequent.     August  to  October. 

According  to  Fries  the  odor  is  weak,  of  anise;  but  it  is  generally 
strong  and  very  pleasant.  Stevenson. 

Spores  nearly  globular,  4/u.  diameter  Morgan;  spheroid  or  ellipsoid- 
spheroid,  uniguttate,  4— 6/*  K.;  almost  globular,  4/x.  W.G.S. 

The  dense  clusters  of  all  sized  members  are  usually  plenty  in  favored 
localities.  It  is  inviting  in  appearance,  taste  and  spicy  odor.  It  re- 
tains a  suspicion  of  the  latter  when  cooked  which  gives  the  dish  a  flavor 
pleasant  to  many.  It  must  be  young  to  be  tender.  When  dry — like 
others  of  its  kind — it  can  be  grated  and  used  in  many  ways. 

L.  Un'dei'WOOdii  Pk.  Pileus  fleshy,  tough,  convex  or  nearly  plane, 
the  glabrous  surface  cracking  into  areola-like  scales  which  are  indistinct 
or  wanting  toward  the  margin,  whitish  or  slightly  tinged  with  buff  or 
pale  ochraceous.  Flesh  white.  Gills  moderately  close,  decurrent, 
slightly  connecting  or  anastomosing  at  the  base,  somewhat  notched  on 
the  edge,  whitish,  becoming  discolored  in  drying.  Stem  stout,  hard, 
solid,  eccentric,  squamose,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  oblong, 
13-15x5-6.5^. 

Plant  cespitose.  Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.  Stem  1-5-3  m-  l°ng,  about 
I  in.  thick. 

This  differs  from  L.  magnus  in  its  cespitose  habit,  eccentric  stem,    . 
longer  spores,  less  distinctly  areolate-squamose  pileus  and  in  its  habitat. 
The  gills  are  connected  at  the  base  very  much  like  those  of   Pleurotus 
ostreatus.     Peck,  Torr.  Bull.  Vol.  23,  No.  10. 

North  Carolina,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

231 


Agaricacese 

Lentinus,  The  writer  first  met  with  it  in  North  Carolina,  near  Washington,  on 
oaks  and  railroad  timbers,  and  in  Fairmount  Park,  Philadelphia.  It 
attains  quite  a  size,  grows  singly  and  in  clusters.  Its  clean,  cake-like 
appearance  is  attractive.  Cooked  it  ranks  with  P.  ulmarius,  L.  lepideus, 
and  Panus  strigosus. 


PA'NUS  Fr. 
A  name  given  to  a  tree-growing  fungus  by  Pliny. 

Panus.       Whole  fungus  between  fleshy  and  leathery,  tough,  not  woody,  texture 


(Plate  LIV.) 


PANUS  TORULOSUS. 
About  one-fourth  natural  size. 


fibrous.  Gills  unequal,  tough,  be- 
coming leathery,  edge  acute  and  un- 
broken. Stem  present  or  absent. 

Growing  on  wood.  Various  in 
form ,  lasting  long.  Allied  to  Lentinus 
but  differing  in  the  tough  and  very 
entire  gills. 

Spores  even,  white. 

ANALYSIS  OF  SPECIES. 

*  Stem  excentric. 
**  Stem  lateral. 
*  Stem  absent.      Pileus  resupinate  or  dimidiate. 

Species  of  this  genus  are  among  our  most  observable  fungi.  Their 
settlements  are  frequent  on  decaying  trees,  stumps,  branches,  on  fences, 
cut  timber,  etc.  Most  of  them  are  small,  but  their  coriaceous  build  pre- 
vents their  shrinking  in  cooking.  Most  species  have  a  pleasant  fari- 
naceous taste  and  odor,  which  they  yield,  together  with  a  gummy  sub- 
stance, to  soups  and  gravies. 

Tasting  a  small  piece  will  immediately  tell,  if  the  species  is  not 
known,  whether  it  is  edible  or  of  the  styptic  kind. 

*  Stem  excentric. 

P.  conclia'tus  Fr. — Formed  like  concha,  a  shell-fish.     Pileus  about 

232 


PLATE  LV. 


Photographed  by  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist. 

PANUS  STRIGOSUS. 


Leucosporee 

3  in.  across,  tough  and  flexible,  unequal,  excentric  or  dimidiate,  margin 
often  lobed,  cinnamon-color  becoming  pale,  at  length  more  or  less 
scaly.  Flesh  thin.  Gills  narrow,  forming  decurrent  lines  on  the  stem, 
somewhat  branched ;  pinkish-white  then  pale-ochraceous.  Stem  about 
?a  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick,  solid,  unequal,  pale,  base  downy.  Massee. 

On  trunks  of  beech,  poplar,  etc. 

Often  imbricated  and  more  or  less  grown  together.  Allied  to  Panus 
torulosus,  but  distinguished  by  the  much  thinner  pileus,  more  expanded 
and  excentric,  also  dimidiate,  flaccid,  cinnamon  becoming  pale,  but  the 
form  not  constant.  Stem  about  ,'2  in.  long,  4  lines  thick,  often  com- 
pressed, downy  at  the  base.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  scaly  when  old. 
Gills  decurrent  in  long,  parallel  lines,  not  at  all  resembling  those  of 
Pleurotus  ostreatus,  which  anastomose  behind,  but  frequently  unequally 
branched,  at  first  whitish  or  pale  flesh-color,  then  wood-color,  crisped 
when  dry.  Fries. 

Always  known  by  its  shell-like  form  and  its  tough  substance. 

Sent  to  the  writer  by  Mr.  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J.  September, 
1898. 

The  appearance  of  scales  upon  the  pileus  was  scarcely  noticeable. 
Taste  pleasant.  The  fungus  is  tough  when  old,  but  yields  an  excellent 
gravy. 

P.  torulo'sus  Fr. — a  tuft  of  hair.  (Plate  LIV,  p.  232.)  Pileus  2-3 
in.  broad,  somewhat  flesh-color,  but  varying  reddish-livid  and  becoming 
violet,  entire,  but  very  excentric,  fleshy,  somewhat  compact  when  young, 
plano-infundibuliform,  even,  smooth.  Flesh  pallid.  Stem  short,  com- 
monly i  in.,  solid,  oblique,  tough,  firm,  commonly  with  gray,  but  often 
violaceous  down.  Gills  decurrent,  somewhat  distant,  simple,  separate 
behind,  reddish  then  tan-color. 

Very  changeable  in  form,  at  first  fleshy-pliant,  at  length  coriaceous. 
In  the  covering  of  the  stem  it  approaches  Paxillus  atro-tomentosus,  but 
there  is  no  affinity  between  them.  Fries. 

On  old  stumps. 

Spores  6x3/A  W.  G.  S. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Frost;  Minnesota,  Johnson; 
Kansas,  Cragin;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  30. 

Much  esteemed  in   France,   W.D.H.      Edible,  but  tough.     M.C.C. 


Agaricaceae 


Paaus.  P.  laevis  B.  and  C. — light.  Pileus  3  in.  broad,  orbicular,  slightly 
depressed,  white,  clothed  in  the  center  with  long,  intricate,  rather  deli- 
cate hairs,  which  are  shorter  and  more  matted  toward  the  inflected  mar- 
gin;  substance  rather  thin.  Stem  3  in.  high,  >£  in.  thick,  attenuated 
upward,  generally  excentric,  sometimes  lateral,  not  rooting,  solid,  hairy 
below  like  the  margin  of  the  pileus.  Gills  rather  broad,  entire,  decur- 
rent,  but  not  to  a  great  degree,  the  interstices  even  above,  behind 
clothed  with  the  same  coat  as  the  top  of  the  stem.  Spores  white. 

On  oak  and  hickory  trunks. 

A  most  distinct  species,  remarkable  for  its  great  lightness  when  dry 
and  the  long  villous  but  not  compressed  or  compound  flocci  of  the 
pileus.  Sometimes  the  center  of  the  pileus  becomes  quite  smooth  when 
old. 

One  of  the  prettiest  of  fungi.  The  markings  upon  the  white  margin 
are  more  precise  than  those  of  the  finest  bee  comb.  One  does  not  tire 
looking  at  the  work  of  Nature's  geometrician.  It  is  not  plentiful,  but  is 
of  useful  size.  It  has  good  flavor  and  cooks  quite  tender. 


P.  Strigo'sus  B.  and  C- 

(Plate  LVa.) 


overed  with  stiff  hairs.  PileilS  white,  ex- 
centric,  clothed  with  coarse  strigose 
pubescence,  margin  thin.  Stem  stri- 
gose like  the  pileus.  Grills  broad, 
distant,  decurrent.  Allied  to  P. 
laevis. 

Pileus  8  in.  broad.    Stem  2-3  in. 
long,  i  in.  or  more  thick. 
On  oak  stumps. 

Decaying  wood  of  deciduous  trees. 
September. 

It  is  remarkable  for  its  large  size 
and  the  dense  hairy  covering  of  the 
pileus  and  stem.     Peck,  26th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

A  remarkably  handsome  fungus.  A  specimen  taken  from  a  cluster 
growing  upon  an  apple  tree  measured  10  in.  across.  Its  creamy  white- 
ness, and  short  hairy  stem  make  it  unmistakable  among  other  tree- 
fungi. 

When  very  young  it  is  edible,  but  soon  becomes  woody.  Even  when 
aged  it  yields  a  well  flavored  gravy. 

234 


PANUS  STRIGOSUS. 
One-third  natural  size. 


Leucosporae 
**  Stem  lateral. 

P.  farina'ceus  Schum. — farina,  meal.  From  the  scurf  on  the  pileus. 
Pileus  cinnamon-umber,  somewhat  coriaceous,  flexuous,  cuticle  separat- 
ing into  whitish-bluish-gray  scurf.  Stem  short,  lateral,  of  the  same 
color  as  the  pileus.  Grills  determinately  free,  distinct,  paler. 

The  habit  is  that  of  P.  stipticus.      Stevenson. 

Pennsylvania,  A.  pleurotus  f.,  Schweinitz;  Ohio,  Morgan. 

Var.  albido-tomentosus.      See  Panus  albido-tomentosus. 

P.  al'bido-tomento'sus  CKE.  MASS. — albidus,  white;  tomentttm, 
down.  PiletlS  about  %  in.  long,  3^  in.  broad,  horizontal,  sometimes 
imbricated,  semi-circular,  subcoriaceous,  flexuous  or  regular,  pale  um- 
ber, densely  clothed  with  a  short,  whitish,  velvety  down,  which  seems 
to  be  persistent,  but  thinner  and  shorter  toward  the  shortly  incurved 
margin.  Stem  lateral,  very  short,  or  entirely  absent,  and  attached  by 
a  downy  base.  Gills  radiating  from  the  point  of  attachment;  narrowed 
behind,  lanceolate,  honey-colored,  margin  entire,  rigid,  scarcely  crowded, 
shorter  ones  intermixed.  Spores  subglobose,  smooth,  5/u,  diameter. 

On  trunks  and  branches. 

Pileus  about  i  in.  broad,  often  in  imbricated  tufts.  It  is  doubtful 
whether  this  is  not  a  distinct  species  from  the  type  described  by  Fries. 
Cooke  and  Massee. 

Panus  albido-tomentosus  is  given  by  Cooke  and  Massee  as  a  variety 
of  Panus  farinaceus.  The  writer  decides  to  give  it  place  as  a  species. 

It  has  been  sent  to  me  by  Mr.  H.  I.  Miller,  from  Terre  Haute,  Ind., 
by  Dr.  E.  L.  Gushing,  Albion,  N.  Y.,  Miss  Madeleine  Le  Moyne, 
Washington,  Pa.  I  have  found  it  in  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey  and 
many  parts  of  Pennsylvania.  It  is  plentiful  in  patches  upon  branches 
and  boles  of  deciduous  trees.  Long,  slow  cooking  makes  it  tender. 
It  makes  a  luscious  gravy  after  thirty  minutes'  stewing. 

*  Stem  absent,  pileus  resupinate  or  dimidiate. 

P.  betuli'nilS  Pk. — bctula,  birch.  Pileus  thin,  suborbicular  or  dimi- 
diate, nearly  plane,  glabrous,  prolonged  behind  into  a  short  stem,  grayish- 
brown,  darker  or  blackish  toward  the  stem.  Gills  narrow,  close,  decur- 

235 


Agaricaceee 

Panus.  rent,  whitish.  Stem  adorned  with  a  slight  tawny  hairiness  which  is 
more  fully  developed  toward  the  base.  Spores  minute,  4-5x1.5-2^. 

Decaying  wood  of  birch.  Newfoundland.  October,  Rev.  A.  C. 
Waghorne.  Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  23,  No.  10. 

Common  in  West  Virginia  mountains  on  birches,  1882;  found  at  Ea- 
gle's Mere,  Pa.,  August,  1898.  Quite  plentiful  on  decaying  birch  trees, 
which  abound  there.  Size  from  /4  —  i%,  in.  across. 

Eaten  raw  it  has  a  gummy  quality  and  very  pleasant  nutty  flavor.  I 
did  not  have  opportunity  to  cook  it,  but  regard  it  as  a  species  well 
worth  trying. 

P.  Stip'ticus  Fr. — stypticus,  astringent.  Pileus  %  —  i  in.  broad,  cin- 
namon becoming  pale,  arid,  thin,  but  not  membranaceous,  kidney- 
shaped,  pruinose,  the  cuticle  separating  into  fnrfuraceous  scales.  Stem 
not  reaching  I  in.  long,  solid,  definitely  lateral,  compressed,  dilated  up- 
ward, ascending,  pruinose,  paler  than  the  gills.  Gills  ending  deter- 
minately  (not  decurrent),  thin,  very  narrow,  crowded,  elegantly  con- 
nected by  veins ,  cin»amon.  Fries. 

Gregarious,  cespitose,  remarkable  for  its  astringent  taste.  The  pileus 
sometimes  has  a  funnel-shaped  appearance  with  lobes  all  around. 

On  stumps,  etc.      Common.     August  to  February. 

Reckoned  poisonous.      Stevenson. 

Spores  obovoid-spheroid,  2-3x1-2^  K.;  3x4^  W.G.S. 

Plentiful  and  general.  The  markings  upon  the  cap  in  moist  weather 
are  sometimes  exquisitely  regular. 

The  immediate  and  lasting  unpleasantness  of  this  fungus  to  mouth 
and  throat,  whether  cooked  or  raw,  will  cancel  all  desire  to  eat  of  it 
forevermore.  A  nibble  will  detect  it.  It  is  reckoned  poisonous,  and 
may  be.  No  one  but  a  determined  suicide  would  resort  to  it.  Dr. 
Lambotte  asserts  that  it  is  a  violent  purgative. 


236 


Leucosporse 


XEft'OTUS  Fr. 

Gr. — dry ;    Gr. — an  ear. 


(Plate  LVI.) 


Hymenophore  continuous  with  Xerotus. 
the  stem,  descending  into  the 
trama  which  is  homogeneous  with 
the  coriaceous  pileus.  Gills  cori- 
aceous, broadly  plicaeform,  di- 
chotomous,  edge  quite  entire,  ob- 
tuse. Rigid,  persistent,  analogous 
with  the  Cantharelli,  but  differing 
ill  the  whole  structure.  Fries. 

The  gills  are  more  distant  than 
in  any  species  of  Agaricaceae. 

None  edible. 


XEROTUS  DEGENER. 


TRO'GIA  Fr. 

After  Trog,  a  Swiss  botanist. 

Gills  fold-like,    edge   longitudinally  channelled    (in   the   single  Eu- 


(Plate  LVI  I.) 


ropean  species  only  crisped).  In 
other  respects  agreeing  with  Xero- 
tus. Soft,  flaccid,  but  arid  and 
persistent,  textiire  fibrillose .  Fries. 

Reviving    when    wet.       Spores 
white.      Stevenson. 

Spores  elongated  or  cylindrical. 

American  representative,  Trogia 
crispa,  var.  variegata. 

Pileus  and  gills  variegated  with  bluish  or  greenish-blue  stains, 
lake.      September.      Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Dot. 

Not  edible. 

237 


TROGIA  CRISPA. 
Natural  size. 


Sand- 


Agaric  aceae 


SCHIZOPHYL'LUM  Fr. 

Gr. — to  split;  Gr. — a  leaf. 


Schizophyllum. 


(PlateLVlII.) 


SCHIZOPHYLLUM  COMMUNE. 


Pileus  fleshless,  arid.  Gills  cori- 
aceous, fan-wise  branched,  united 
above  by  the  tomentose  pellicle, 
bifid,  split  longitudinally  at  the  edge. 
Spores  somewhat  round,  white. 
Fries. 

The  two  lips  of  the  split  edge  of 
the  gills  are  commonly  revolute.  The 
farthest  removed  of  all  the  Agari- 
cini  from  the  type. 

Growing  on  wood.      Stevenson. ' 

Common  on  decaying  wood. 
Tough. 


LENZITES  Fr. 

After  Lenz,  a  German  botanist. 


Lenzites.  Pileus  corky  or  coriaceous,  texture  arid  and  floccose.  Gills  coriace- 
ous, firm,  sometimes  simple  and  unequal,  sometimes  anastomosing  and 
forming  pores  behind,  trama  floccose  and  similar  to  the  pileus,  edge 
somewhat  acute.  The  European  species  are  dimidiate,  sessile,  persist- 
ent, growing  on  wood,  quite  resembling  Daedalea.  Fries. 

Allied  most  nearly  to  Trametes  and  Daedalea  and  forming  as  it  were 
the  transition  from  Agaricaceae  to  Polyporaceae.  In  tropical  countries 
they  are  more  woody  in  texture.  Stevenson. 

Very  common.      None  edible. 


238 


PLATE   L  VI 1 1  A. 


RHODOSPORAE 


VOLVARIA 


\   \ 


PLUTEUS 


CLAUDOPUS. 


LEPTONIA. 


NOLAN EA. 


ECCJUA 


CHART  OF  GENERA  IN  PINK-SPORED  SERIES— RHODOSPORAE.  PAGE  239 


Rhodosporae 


Series  II.    RHODOSPOR-ffi.    Gr.— rose;   Gr.— seed.   Or  HYPORHO'DII—  hypo, 

under;   r/todon,  rose. 

Spores  pink  or  salmon-color. 

In  Volvaria,  Pluteus  and  most  of  Clitopilus,  the  spores  are  regular  in 
shape,  as  in  the  white-spored  series,  in  the  rest  of  the  subgenera  they 
are  generally  angular  and  irregular. 

Though  European  writers,  generally,  condemn  the  rosy-spored  series 
as  inedible,  a  few  of  our  best  American  edibles  are  found  in  it — notably 
Pluteus  cervinus. 


VOLVA'RIA    Fr. 

Volva,  a  wrapper. 

Spores  regular,  oval,   pink,   or  salmon.      Veil  universal,  forming  a  Volvaria. 
perfect  volva,  distinct  from  the  cuticle  of  the  pileus.      Stem  separating 
easily  from  the  pileus.     Gills  free,  rounded  behind,  at  the  very  first 
white  then  pinkish,  soft.      Analogous  with  Amanita. 

Growing  in  woods  and  on  rich  mold,  rotten  wood  and  damp  ground, 
hence  often  found  in  hot-houses  and  gardens.  V.  Loveiana  Berk,  is 
parasitic  on  Clitocybe  nebularis. 

There  are  thirteen  species  reported  from  different  parts  of  the  United 
States.  Most  of  them  grow  upon  wood.  Two  species  have  previously 
been  reported  as  edible,  to  which  I  have  added  V.  Taylori,  tested  by 
myself. 

One  species,  V.  gloiocephala,  is  upon  the  authority  of  Letellier, 
given  as  poisonous.  It  is  found  in  several  parts  of  the  United  States, 
but  no  comment  has  been  made  upon  its  edibility.  I  have  not  seen  it. 
A  careful  study  of  its  botanic  characters  is  urged.  It  should  be  re- 
garded as  poisonous  until  its  reputation  is  cleared  up,  as  it  probably 
will  be. 

ANALYSIS  OF  SPECIES. 

*  Pileus  dry,  silky  or  fibrillose. 
*  Pileus  more  or  less  viscid,  smooth. 

239 


Agaricaceee 


*Pileus  dry,  silky  or  fibril  lose. 

Voivaria.       V.  bombyci'na  Schaeff. — bombyx,  silk.    PileilS  3-8  in.  broad,  wholly 
( Plate  LIX.)  white,   fleshy,   soft,  at  first  globose,  soon 

bell-shaped,  at  length  convex,  somewhat 
umbonate,  everywhere  silky  or,  when  older, 
hairy-scaled,  more  rarely  becoming  smooth 
at  the  vertex.  Flesh  not  thick,  white. 
Stem  3-6  in.  long,  >2  in.  thick  or  more  at 
the  base,  solid,  equally  attenuated  from 
the  base  to  the  apex,  even,  smooth,  white. 
Volva  soon  torn  asunder,  ample,  2—3  in. 
broad,  membranaceous,  lax,  slashed,  some- 
what viscid,  persistent.  Gills  free,  very 
crowded  when  young,  almost  cohering, 
ventricose,  in  groups  of  2—4,  then  toothed, 
flesh-colored. 

Ovate  when  young.  According  to  some 
becoming  brownish.  The  stem  is  curved- 
ascending  on  vertical  trunks  and  straight 

on  prostrate  ones.      Commonly  solitary,  sometimes  however  cespitose. 
Stevenson . 

Spores  elliptic,  smooth,  6-7x4;*  Massee;  6-8/u,  Lloyd. 
Considered  edible.      Stevenson.      Edible.      Curtis. 
Very  general  but  not  common  over  the  United  States.      It  is  a  large 
plant,  from  3  in.  upward  across  cap.    Growing  from  wood,  oaks,  maples, 
beech,  etc. 

The  writer  has  not  been  successful  in  finding  it.  Drawing,  spore-print 
and  description  received  from  H.  I.  Miller,  Terre  Haute,  Ind. 

Upon  such  an  authority  as  the  late  Dr.  Curtis  there  is  no  doubt  of 
its  edibility. 

V.  volva'cea  Bull. — volva,  a  wrapper.  PileilS  2-3  in.  across. 
Flesh  white,  thick  at  the  disk,  very  thin  elsewhere,  soft,  bell-shaped 
then  expanded,  obtuse,  grayish-yellow,  virgate  or  streaked  with  ad- 
pressed  blackish  fibrils.  Gills  free,  about  2  lines  broad,  pale  flesh- 
color.  Stem  2-4  in.  long,  about  4  lines  thick,  almost  equal,  white,  solid. 


VOLVARIA    BOMBYCINA. 

Natural  size. 


240 


PLATE  LIXA. 


O 

r 


DO 

O 
£ 

DO 
*< 

O 

z 


Rhodosporae 


VOLVARIA      VOLVACEA. 

Two-fifths  natural  size. 


Volva  large,  loose,  whitish.     Spores      .  (Plate  LX.) 

smooth,   elliptical,   6-8x3.5-4^;   no 
cystidia.     Massee. 

On  the  ground  by  roadsides,  etc., 
also  in  stoves. 

Allied  to  V.  bombycina,  but  con- 
stantly different  in  the  less  ample 
and  less  persistent,  brownish  volva. 
Pileus  3  in.  across,  rarely  more, 
gray,  elegantly  virgate  with  blackish 
fibrils  ;  flesh-color  of  the  gills  not 
so  pure.  Fries., 

Once  found  in  woods  at  roots  of  a 

tree.      It  occurs  every  year  in  the  cellar  of    our   drug    store.     Lloyd 
"Volvae." 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz;  Minnesota,  Johnson;  Ohio,  Morgan. 

Probably  edible,  should  be  carefully  tested. 

V.  Taylor!  Berk.  Pileus  i%  in.  high  and  broad,  livid,  conico- 
campanulate,  obtuse,  striately  cracked  from  the  apex,  thin,  margin  lobed 
and  sinuated.  Stem  2/2  in.  long,  K  in.  thick,  pallid,  solid,  nearly 
equal,  slightly  bulbous  at  the  base.  Volva  date-brown,  lobed,  some- 
what lax,  small.  Grills  uneven,  broad  in  front,  very  much  attenuated 
behind,  rose-color. 

Pileus  beautifully  penciled  and  cracked.  The  dark  volva,  bell-shaped 
pileus,  and  uneven,  attenuated  gills  are  marked  characters.  The  habit 
is  rather  that  of  some  Entoloma  than  of  its  more  immediate  allies.  Fries. 

Spores  6x9/11  W.G.S.;  broadly  elliptical,  smooth,  5x3.5-4^  Massee. 

Indiana,  Mrs.  L.  H.  Cox;  West  Philadelphia,  in  much  decayed  stump 
of  maple.  Mcllvaine. 

Caps  i%—2  in.  across  and  beautifully  penciled  and  cracked.  Stem 
i  ^—3  in.  long.  Gills  up  to  K  in.  wide.  The  spores  when  shed  in 
body  are  a  beautiful  maroon.  Resembling  V.  volvacea,  but  lighter  in 
color,  and  having  a  brown  volva.  Specimens  sent  me  by  J.  J.  New- 
baker,  Steelton,  Pa.,  had  snow-white  caps  and  when  young  were  velvety 
to  the  touch.  Gills  tinged  with  pink;  volva  dark  brown. 

The  few  specimens  eaten  were  of  good  flavor,  somewhat  resembling 
Pluteus  cervinus. 

16  241 


Voivaria. 


Agaricaceee 

**  Pileus  more  or  less  viscid,  smooth, 

V.  specio'sa  Fr. — speciosus,  handsome.  Pileus  3-5  in.  broad,  whit- 
ish, gray  or  umber  at  the  disk,  fleshy,  globose  when  young,  then  bell- 
shaped,  at  length  plane  and  somewhat  umbonate,  even,  smooth,  gluey. 
Flesh  soft,  floccose,  white.  Stem  4-8  in.  long,  as  much  as  I  in.  thick, 
solid,  firm,  slightly  attenuated  from  the  base  as  far  as  the  apex,  when 
young,  white-villous  and  tomentose  at  the  base,  then  becoming  smooth, 
white.  Volva  bulbous  rather  than  lax,  free  however,  variously  torn 
into  loops,  membranaceous,  %  —  \  in.  broad,  externally  tomentose,  white. 
Gills  free,  flesh-colored. 

The  gills  are  wholly  the  same  as  those  of  A.  bombycinus.  It  occurs 
also  thinner,  with  the  pileus  wholly  gray.  Fries. 

Spores  !2-i8x8-io/A  K.;  elliptical  or  subglobose,  smooth,  I4~i6x 
8/tt  Mas  see. 

Distinguished  by  the  whitish,  viscid  pileus,  and  the  downy  volva  and 
stem.  Mas  see. 

"Common  in  cultivated  soil,  especially  grain  fields  and  along  roads. 
A  fine  edible  agaric  and  our  most  abundant  one  in  California."  Mc- 
Clatchie.  Volvae,  U.  S.,  Lloyd. 

V.  gloioaeph'ala  Dec.  Fl.  Gr. — sticking;  head.  Pileus  dark 
opaque  brown,  fleshy,  bell-shaped  then  expanded,  umbonate,  smooth, 
glutinous,  striate  at  the  margin,  Stem  solid,  smooth,  becoming  brown- 
ish or  tawny;  the  volva,  which  is  circularly  split,  pressed  close.  Gills 
'free,  reddish. 

Fragments  of  the  volva  are  sometimes  seen  on  the  pileus.  The  stem 
is  commonly  more  slender  than  that  of  A.  speciosus.  Fries. 

On  the  ground.      Uncommon.     June  to  October.      Stevenson. 

Pileus  about  3  in.  across,  with  a  strong  regular,  obtuse  umbo  in  the 
center,  of  a  delicate  mouse-gray,  viscid  when  moist,  but  when  dry 
shining,  quite  smooth,  margin  striate  in  consequence  of  the  thinness  of 
the  flesh.  Stem  6  in.  or  more  high,  about  )£  in.  thick  in  the  center, 
attenuated  upward,  bulbous  at  the  base,  clothed  with  a  few  slight  fibers, 
easily  splitting,  solid,  rather  dingy,  ringless.  Volva  loose,  villous  like 
the  base  of  the  stem,  splitting  into  several  unequal  lobes;  the  gills  are 
broad,  especially  in  front,  narrower  behind  and  quite  free,  so  as  to  leave 
a  space  round  the  top  of  the  stem,  white,  tinged  with  grayish-pink; 

242 


Rhodosporae 

margin  slightly  toothed.      Smell  strong  and  unpleasant,  and  taste  disa-  Voivaria. 
greeable.     M.J.B.     VERY  POISONOUS  according  to  Letellier.      Stev- 
enson . 

Spores  19x9/1*  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  smooth,  io-i2x6-7/x  Massee. 

Distinguished  by  the  smoky,  glutinous  pileus.  The  measurement  of 
the  spores  as  given  by  Saccardo  (19x91*)  is  certainly  too  large,  and  is 
probably  an  uncorrected  error.  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  South  Carolina,  Ravenel;  Ontario,  Dearness; 
California,  Harkness  and  Moore ;  Ohio,  Morgan;  Mississippi,  Minne- 
sota, Johnson. 

PLU'TEUS  Fr. 

{Pluteus,  a  shed.     From  the  conical  shape  of  the  pileus.) 

Stem  fleshy,  distinct  from  the  pileus.  Gills  free,  rounded  behind 
(never  emarginate),  at  first  cohering,  white,  then  colored  by  the  spores. 

Generally  growing  on  or  near  trunks  of  trees. 

Resembling  Voivaria  in  all  respects  but  the  volva.    Spores  rosy. 

Several  of  the  genus  are  edible.  Pluteus  cervinus  is  one  of  our  earli- 
est, persistent,  plentiful,  delicious  food  species-  The  caps  of  those 
tested  are  tender,  easily  cooked  and  best  fried. 

ANALYSIS  OF  SPECIES. 

*Cuticle  of  the  pileus  separating  into  fibrils  or  down,  which  at  length 
disappear. 

**Pileus  frosted  with  atoms,  somewhat  powdery. 
***Pileus  naked,  smooth. 

*  Cuticle  of  pileus  fibrillose,  etc. 

P.  cervi'nus  Schaeff. — cervus,  a  deer.  (Plate  LXI,  fig.  I,  p.  242.) 
Pileus  fleshy,  at  first  campanulate,  then  convex  or  expanded,  even, 
glabrous,  generally  becoming  fibrillose  or  slightly  floccose-villose  on  the 
disk,  occasionally  cracked,  variable  in  color.  LamellSB  broad,  some- 
what ventricose,  at  first  whitish,  then  flesh-colored.  Stem  equal  or 
slightly  tapering  upward,  firm,  solid,  fibrillose  or  subglabrous,  variable 
in  color.  Spores  broadly  elliptical,  6.5-8x5-6.5^. 

243 


Agaricaceae 

piuteus.       Plant  2-6  in.  high.     Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.     Stem  3-6  lines  thick. 

The  typical  form  has  the  pileus  and  stem  of  a  dingy  or  brown  color 
and  adorned  with  blackish  fibrils,  but  specimens  occur  with  the  pileus 
white,  yellowish,  cinereous,  grayish-brown  or  blackish-brown.  I  have 
never  seen  it  of  a  true  cervine  color.  It  is  sometimes  quite  glabrous 
and  smooth  to  the  touch  and  in  wet  weather  it  is  even  slightly  viscid. 
It  also  occurs  somewhat  floccose-villose  on  the  disk,  and  the  disk, 
though  usually  plane  or  obtuse,  is  occasionally  slightly  prominent  or 
subumbonate.  The  form  with  the  surface  of  the  pileus  longitudinally 
rimose  or  chinky  is  probably  due  to  meteorological  conditions.  The 
gills,  though  at  first  crowded,  become  more  lax  with  the  expansion  of 
the  pileus.  They  are  generally  a  little  broader  toward  the  marginal 
than  toward  the  inner  extremity.  Their  tendency  to  deliquesce  is  often 
shown  by  their  wetting  the  paper  on  which  the  pileus  has  been  placed 
for  the  purpose  of  catching  the  spores.  The  stem  is  usually  somewhat 
fibrous  and  striated  but  forms  occur  in  which  it  is  even  and  glabrous. 
When  growing  from  the  sides  of  stumps  and  prostrate  trunks  it  is  apt  to 
be  curved.  Two  forms  deserve  varietal  distinction. 

Var.  afbns.      Pileus  and  stem  white  or  whitish. 

Var.  al'bipes.  Pileus  cinereous  yellowish  or  brown.  Stem  white  or 
whitish,  destitute  of  blackish  fibrils. 

In  Europe  there  are  three  or  four  forms  which  have  been  designated 
as  species  under  the  names  of  A.  rigens,  A.  patricius,  A.  eximius  and 
A.  petasatus,  but  Fries  gives  them  as  varieties  or  subspecies  of  A.  cer- 
vinus,  though  admitting  that  they  are  easily  distinguished.  None  of 
these  have  occurred  in  our  state.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Var.  visco'sus.  The  normal  character  of  the  cuticle  of  the  species  is 
slightly  viscid  in  wet  weather,  but  the  specimens  we  collected  and  photo- 
graphed were  exceedingly  viscid.  They  also  differed  from  the  normal 
form  in  their  lighter  color,  flesh  much  thicker  at  the  disk  and  thin  at  the 
margins,  and  cuticle  not  appearing  fibrillose.  It  is  close  to  petasatus, 
but  differs,  however,  in  its  narrower  gills  and  in  having  no  striae.  It  is 
a  good  variety  if  it  is  not  a  good  species.  Lloyd,  Myc.  Notes. 

Spores  7-8x5-6)".  K.;  6-8x4-5/01  B.;^^  W.  G.S.;  5 .8x4.6^  Morgan. 

Frequent  on  decaying  stumps,  roots  and  wood,  May  to  frost.  Mc- 
I lvalue. 

Its  free  gills  should  distinguish  it  from  any  Entoloma,  though  both 
have  pink  spores  and  eventually  pink  gills.  Among  the  earliest  of 

244 


PLATE  LXI. 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Biiscoe  — Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


FIG. 
1.    PLUTEUS  CERVINUS, 


PAGE.       FIG. 
243  2.    PLTTTEUS  CERVINUS.  VAR., 


PAGE. 

245 


Rhodosporee 

large  species.     The  sight  of  it  is  stimulating  to  the  mycophagist.      He  piutens. 
then  knows  the  toadstool  season  to  be  truly  opened. 

Caps  only  are  tender.  The  stems  are  edible,  but  they  are  not  of  the 
same  consistency  as  the  caps,  therefore  will  not  cook  with  them.  Fried 
in  a  buttered  pan  or  broiled,  they  are  exceedingly  toothsome. 

In  October,  1898,  a  beautiful  variety  (see  Plate  LXI,  fig.  2,  p. ), 

occurred  which  I  had  not  previously  seen.  It  was  sent  by  me  to  Pro- 
fessor Peck.  The  plants  grew  in  large  clusters  from  rotting,  refuse 
straw  in  the  ruin  of  a  stable ;  the  white,  cottony  mycelium  running 
upon  and  through  the  straw.  The  solid  stems  of  some  were  straight, 
others  curved,  ranging  from  2—6  in.  long,  the  taller  ones  tapering  from 
base  to  spindling  apex,  the  shorter  ones  decidedly  bulbous  and  ending 
abruptly.  They  were  twisted  and  delicately  marked.  These  markings 
break  up  into  dark  thread-like  fibrils,  leaving  the  stem  striate  and  satin- 
glossy.  PileilS  from  2—4  in.  across,  dark  Vandyke-brown  when  young, 
lighter  in  age,  streaked,  glossy.  Gills  at  first  white,  tardily  changing 
to  light  salmon  color,  broad,  ventricose,  free. 

Taste  and  smell  pleasant  of  almonds.      Good,  delicious. 

Professor  Peck  wrote  of  it:  "It  has  the  general  appearance  of 
Pluteus  cervinus,  but  these  specimens  seem  to  depart  from  the  usual 
form  of  growing  in  clusters  from  the  ground,  and  in  having  an  almond 
flavor.  Without  knowing  more  about  it  I  would  scarcely  feel  justified 
in  separating  it  from  such  a  variable  species.  As  Fries  sometimes  re- 
marks concerning  variable  species :  Perhaps  several  species  are  con- 
cealed under  the  one  name,  but  a  pretty  full  and  accurate  knowledge  of 
them  is  desirable  if  one  is  to  split  them  up." 

This  is  excellent  judgment.  While  I  believe  the  above  to  be  a  dis- 
tinct species,  the  disposition  to  make  new  species  of  varieties  is  regret- 
table in  many  botanists. 

Var.  But  Hi  Berk.,  MS.  PileilS  4-6  in.  across,  flesh  thick,  convex 
then  expanded,  smooth,  even,  pallid,  the  disk  darker.  Gills  free, 
rounded  behind,  rather  distant  from  the  stem,  crowded,  K  in.  broad, 
pale  salmon-color.  Stem  3-4  in.  long,  i  in.  and  more  thick,  slightly 
swollen  at  the  base,  fibrillose,  pale  brown,  darkest  at  the  base,  solid. 
Mas  see. 

Pileus  6  in.  across,  expanded  from  bell-shape,  ashy-white  (oyster 
color),  glossy,  like  floss  silk,  silky  fibrillose,  irregularly  corrugated. 
Skin  separable.  Flesh  spongy,  pure  white,  like  shreds  of  cotton,  sep- 

245 


Agaricaceee 

piuteus.  arable  into  plates,  very  brittle,  H  in.  thick  at  stem,  immediately  thin- 
ning to  H  in.,  very  thin  toward  margin.  Gills  thin,  elastic,  rounded 
behind,  close  to  stem,  free,  %  in.  wide,  close,  alternate  short  and  long, 
white,  then  tinged  and  spotted  pink  with  spores  which  when  cast  in  mass 
are  a  pinkish-brown  with  slight  lavender  shade.  Stem  5  in.  long,  H—% 
in.  thick,  subequal,  spreading  at  top,  white,  silky-fibrillose,  changing  to 
very  light  yellowish  brown  from  center  to  base,  exterior  hard,  skin  thin, 
tough,  interior  filled  with  continuous,  cottony  fibers,  snow-white,  brittle, 
watery,  slightly  swollen  at  base.  Taste  pleasant. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  July,  1898,  on  chestnut  stump  and  in  woods  on 
ground  among  leaves.  Leaves  adhere  to  base  of  stem  which  is  pow- 
dery-white. Mcllvaine. 

Cooked,  it  is  as  good  as  P.  cervinus. 

Var.  petasdtus  Fr.  PileilS  3-4  in.  across,  flesh  rather  thick,  campanu- 
late  then  expanded,  umbonate,  grayish-white,  very  smooth,  with  a 
viscid  cuticle,  at  length  striate  to  the  middle.  Gills  free,  K  in.  and 
more  broad,  crowded,  becoming  dry,  white  then  reddish.  Stem  4-5 
in.  long,  %  —  %  in.  thick,  rigid,  very  slightly  and  equally  attenuated 
from  the  base,  whitish,  fibrillosely  striate,  solid. 

On  heaps  of  straw  and  dung,  sawdust,  etc. 

Color  verging  on  bay  when  old.  Stem  and  margin  of  gills  at  length 
with  a  tawny  tinge.  Fries. 

Haddonfield,  New  Jersey,  Bell's  Mill,  sawdust,  1890;  Mt.  Gretna, 
Pa.,  August,  1898,  among  sawdust  from  ice-house.  Caps  6  in.  across. 
Stem  easily  split,  exterior  hard,  fibrillose,  streaked,  whitish,  shining, 
stuffed  with  cottony  fibers.  Spores  dark  pink.  Mcllvaine. 

Equal  to  P.  cervinus. 

P.  limbro'sus  Pers. — shady,  from  its  dark  color.  PileilS  fleshy,  at 
first  bell-shaped,  then  convex  or  expanded,  roughly  wrinkled  and  more 
or  less  villose  on  the  disk,  fimbriate  on  the  margin,  blackish-brown. 
Gills  broad,  somewhat  ventricose,  at  first  whitish,  then  flesh-colored, 
blackish-brown  and  fringed  or  toothed  on  the  edge.  Stem  solid,  colored 
like  or  paler  than  the  pileus,  fibrillose  or  villose-squamose.  Spores 
elliptical,  8x5/4. 

Decaying  woods  and  swamps,  especially  *f  pine,  both  in  shaded  and 
open  places.  Not  rare.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

246 


Rhodosporse 

Spores  broadly  elliptical,   smooth,  6-7x5/1, ;   cystidia  ventricose,  65-  Piuteus. 
75xi8-2O/x  Mas  see. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  32,  38;  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  North 
Carolina,  New  Jersey,  frequent  on  decaying  logs,  stumps,  pine  and 
other  woods.  Mcllvaine. 

At  times  the  caps  are  a  deep  sepia-brown.  It  is  readily  distinguished 
from  P.  cervinus  by  the  wrinkled,  downy  disk  of  the  cap  and  the  gills 
having  dark-brown  edges.  Smell  rather  strong.  Professor  Peck  says 
he  has  not  seen  it  with  the  margin  fimbriate.  Neither  have  I,  though 
this  is  prominent  in  the  European  species. 

P.  umbrosus  is  a  fine  species,  equal  in  every  way  to  P.  cervinus, 
which  is  seldom  excelled.  Caps  only  are  tender. 

P.  pelli'tllS  Fr.  PileilS  1-2  in.  across.  Flesh  thin,  soft,  white,  con- 
vex then  plane,  somewhat  umbonate,  regular,  silky-fibrous,  dry,  white. 
Gills  free,  rounded  behind,  crowded,  \%  line  broad,  ventricose,  white 
then  flesh-color,  margin  slightly  toothed.  Stem  about  2  in.  long,  2-3 
lines  thick,  slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  even,  glabrous,  shining,  white, 
stuffed.  Spores  elliptical,  smooth,  iox6/x. 

Among  grass  at  the  roots  of  trees,  etc. 

Our  only  Pluteus  with  a  pure  white,  even  pileus  and  stem.  Super- 
ficially resembling  Entoloma  prunuloides,  which  differs  in  the  broadly 
emarginate — not  free — gills,  and  in  the  strong  smell  of  new  meal. 
Mas  see. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  October,  1898.     Mcllvaine. 

Pileus  up  to  3  in.  across.  GUIs  K  in.  broad,  free,  moist,  imbricated. 
Stem  up  to  5  in-  l°ng>  easily  detachable  from  cap,  solid,  juicy,  solitary 
and  cespitose.  On  very  old  sawdust,  upon  which  grass  was  growing. 

Tender,  excellent. 

** Pileus  frosted,  etc. 

P.  granula'ris  Pk. — sprinkled  with  grains.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  subumbonate,  rugose-wrinkled,  granulose  or  granulose-villose , 
varying"in  color  from  yellow  to  brown.  Lamellae  rather  broad,  crowded, 
ventricose,  whitish,  then  flesh  colored.  Stem  equal,  solid,  colored  like 
the  pileus,  often  paler  at  the  top,  velvety-pubescent,  rarely  scaly.  Spores 
subglobose  or  broadly  elliptical,  6.5-8x5-6.5^. 

247 


Agaricacese 

Piuteus.       Plant  1.5-3  m-  high.     PileuS  1-2  in.  broad.    Stem  1-2  lines  thick. 

Decaying  wood  and  prostrate  trunks  in  woods.  Hilly  and  mountain- 
ous districts.  June  to  September. 

The  species  is  closely  related  to  P.  cervinus  and  P.  umbrosus,  but  is 
readily  distinguished  from  them  by  the  peculiar  vesture  of  the  pileus 
and  stem.  The  granules  are  so  minute  and  so  close  that  they  form  a 
sort  of  plush  on  the  pileus,  more  dense  on  the  disk  and  radiating 
wrinkles  than  elsewhere.  The  clothing  of  the  stem  is  finer,  and  has  a 
velvety-pubescent  appearance,  but  in  some  instances  it  breaks  up  into 
small  scales  or  squamules.  The  color  of  the  pileus  and  stem  is  usually 
some  shade  of  yellow  or  brown,  but  occasionally  a  grayish  hue  pre- 
dominates. The  darker  color  of  the  granules  imparts  a  dingy  or  smoky 
tinge  to  the  general  color.  The  disk  is  often  darker  than  the  rest  of 
the  pileus.  Peck,  38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia  mountains.    Eagle's  Mere  and  Springton  Hills,  Pa. 

Frequent.     July  to  October,  on  decaying  wood.     Mcllvaine. 

P.  granularis  is  a  much  smaller  species  than  P.  cervinus  and  its  allies. 
At  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  August,  1898,  it  was  quite  plentiful  in  mixed 
woods.  Its  caps  are  excellent. 

***  Pileus  naked. 

P.  admira'bilis  Pk. — admirable.  Pileus  thin,  convex  or  expanded, 
generally  broadly  umbonate,  glabrous,  rugose-reticulated,  moist  or  hy- 
grophanous,  striatulate  on  the  margin  when  moist,  often  obscurely  striate 
when  dry,  yellow  or  brown.  Lamellae  close,  broad,  rounded  behind, 
ventricose,  whitish  or  yellowish,  then  flesh-colored.  Stem  slender, 
glabrous,  hollow,  equal  or  slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  yellow  or  yel- 
lowish white,  with  a  white  mycelium.  Spores  subglobose  or  broadly 
elliptical,  6.5-8x6.5^. 

Var.  fus'cus.     PileilS  brown  or  yellowish-brown. 

Plant  1-2  in.  high.     Pileus  6-10  lines  broad.     Stem  .5-1  line  thick. 

Decaying  wood  and  prostrate  trunks  in  forests.  Common  in  hilly  and 
mountainous  districts.  July  to  September. 

This  beautiful  Piuteus  is  closely  related  to  P.  chrysophlebius  B.  and 
R.,  a  southern  species,  which,  according  to  the  description,  has  the 
veins  of  the  pileus  darker  colored  than  the  rest  of  the  surface  and  the 

248 


Rhodosporse 

stem  enlarged  above  and  hairy  at  the  base,  characters  not  shown  by  our  Piuteus. 
plant. 

In  our  plant  small  young  specimens  sometimes  have  the  stem  solid, 
but  when  fully  developed  it  is  hollow,  though  the  cavity  is  small.  This 
character,  with  its  small  size,  distinguishes  it  from  P.  leoninus.  Peck, 
38th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Springton  Hills,  Chester  county,  Pa.,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Frequent. 
June  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

Possesses  the  same  rare  edible  qualities  as  P.  cervinus,  P.  umbrosus. 
The  caps,  only,  are  tender. 

P.  chrysophse'llS  Schaeff.  Gr. — gold.  Pileus  1-2 K  in.  across. 
Flesh  very  thin  except  at  the  disk,  bell-shaped  then  expanded,  glabrous, 
naked,  slightly  wrinkled,  margin  striate,  cinnamon-color.  Gills  free, 
2-3  lines  broad,  whitish  then  pale  salmon-color.  Stem  2-3  in.  long, 
2-3  lines  thick,  whitish,  glabrous,  equal,  more  or  less  hollow. 

On  beech  trunks,  etc. 

Resembling  P.  leoninus  in  size,  but  differing  in  the  cinnamon  color  of 
the  pileus,  which  is  often  obtusely  umbonate.  Massee. 

Spores  5/*  W.P. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.  June  to  October,  beech  roots  and  trunks.  Me- 
Ilvaine. 

Excellent. 


249 


Agaricacese 

ENTOLO'MA  Fr. 

Gr. — within ;    Gr. — a  fringe. 
(Probably  referring  to  the  innate  character  of  the  pseudo  veil.) 

Entoioma.  Pileus  rather  fleshy,  margin  incurved,  without  a  distinct  veil.  Stem 
fleshy  or  fibrous,  soft,  sometimes  waxy,  continuous  with  the  flesh  of  the 
pileus.  Gills  sinuate,  adnexed,  often  separating  from  the  stem.  Spores 
rosy,  elliptical,  smooth  or  subglobose  and  coarsely  warted. 

Corresponding  in  structure  with  Tricholoma,  Hebeloma  and  Hypho- 
loma;  separated  from  other  rosy-spored  genera  by  the  sinuate  gills. 

About  twenty  species  of  Entoioma  are  given  in  the  states ;  of  them 
seventeen  are  described  by  Professor  Peck,  as  found  in  New  York.  I 
have  not  found  a  single  species  in  sufficient  quantity  to  test  its  edibility. 

Two  of  the  European  species,  E.  sinuata  Fr.  and  E.  livida  Bull.,  are 
reputed  to  be  very  poisonous,  producing  headache,  dizziness,  vomiting, 
etc.  Worth ington  Smith  ate  %  oz.,  which  nearly  proved  fatal. 

Professor  Peck  reports  a  species,  E.  grande  Pk., which  he  considers 
suspicious. 

Even  the  reported  poisonous  species  have  a  pleasant  odor  correspond- 
ing to  those  of  the  esculent  species.  This  makes  them  the  more  de- 
ceptive and  dangerous.  The  pinkish  or  flesh-colored  spores  and  gills 
distinguish  Entoioma  from  Hebeloma,  which  has  brown  spores,  and 
Tricholoma,  which  has  white.  Pluteus,  which  has  pink  spores  and  gills, 
is  readily  separated  from  it. 

Great  caution  should  be  observed.  Entolomas  should  be  thrown  away 
or  carefully  tested. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

GENUI'NI  (genuine,  typical  species).      Page  251. 
Pileus  smooth,  moist  or  viscid;   not  hygrophanous. 

LEPTONI'DEI  (inclining  to  Leptonia). 
Pileus  flocculose  or  squamulose ;   absolutely  dry. 

NOLANI'DEI  (inclining  to  Nolanea).     Page  252. 

Pileus  thin,  hygrophanous,  somewhat  silky  when  dry. 

250 


Rhodosporoe 


I. — GENUI'NI. 

E.  gran'de  Pk. — Pileus  fleshy,  thin  toward  the  margin,  glabrous,  Entoioma. 
nearly  plane  when  mature,  commonly  broadly  umbonate  and  rugosely 
wrinkled  about  the  umbo,  moi.^t  in  wet  weather,  dingy  yellowish-white 
verging  to  brownish  or  grayish-brown.  Flesh  white,  odor  and  flavor 
farinaceous.  Lamellae  broad,  subdistant,  slightly  adnexed,  becoming 
free  or  nearly  so,  often  wavy  or  uneven  on  the  edge,  whitish  becoming 
flesh-colored  with  maturity.  Stem  equal  or  nearly  so,  solid,  somewhat 
fibrous  externally,  mealy  at  the  top,  white.  Spores  angular,  S-IO/A. 

Pileus  4-6  in.  broad.     Stem  4-6  in.  long,  8—12  lines  thick. 

Thin  mixed  woods.      Menands.     August. 

The  flavor  of  this  mushroom  is  not  at  first  disagreeable,  but  an  un- 
pleasant burning  sensation  is  left  in  the  mouth  for  a  considerable  time 
after  tasting.  It  is  therefore  to  be  regarded  with  suspicion.  Peck,  5Oth 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

SUSPICIOUS.  I  have  not  seen  this  species.  It  is  given  that  it  may 
be  guarded  against  until  tested  for  edibility. 

E.  sinua'tum   Fr. — waved.     Pileus  6  in.   broad,  becoming  yellow- 


(Plate  LXII.) 


ivhifc,  very  fleshy,  convex  then  ex- 
panded, at  first  gibbous,  at  length 
depressed,  repand  and  sinuate  at 
the  margin.  Stem  3-6  in.  long, 
i  in.  thick,  solid,  firm,  stout,  equal, 
compact,  at  first  fibriilose,  then 
smooth,  naked,  shining  white. 
Gills  ttnafginatefSlightiy  adnexed, 
Yz—%  in.  broad,  crowded,  distinct, 
pale  yellowish-red.  Fries. 

Gregarious,  compact,  handsome. 

Odor  strong,  pleasant,  almost 
like  that  of  burnt  sugar,  not  of  new 
meal.  The  pileus  becomes  broken 
into  squamules  when  dry.  There  is  a  variety  with  a  shorter  stem. 

In  mixed  woods.      Uncommon.     July  to  October. 

The  gills  are  often    irregular  in  their  attachment.      Very  poisonous; 
producing  headache,  swimming  of  the  brain,  stomach  pains,  vomiting, 

251 


ENTOLOMA  SINUATUM. 
About  one-fourth  natural  size. 


Agaricacese 

Entoioma.  etc.  Worthington  Smith,  who  first  experimented  with  it,  ate  about  K 
oz.,  which  very  nearly  proved  fatal.  Stevenson. 

Spores  9/*  W.G.  S. 

Rhode  Island,  Olney  (Curtis  Am.  Jour.);  Massachusetts,  Spragne; 
Connecticut,  Wright;  Minnesota,  Johnson;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  35. 

"This  and  E.  fertilis,  which  are  closely  allied,  are  deserving  of  more 
than  suspicion,  for  they  are  veritably  dangerous."  Cooke. 

"Wholesome  and  very  good  to  eat."      Cordier. 

In  the  presence  of  such  opposite  opinions  it  is  better  to  choose  the 
safer.  Do  not  eat  it. 

•  E.  pmnulo'ides  Fr. — prunus,  a  plum.  PileilS  2  in.  and  more  broad, 

whitish,  becoming  yellow  or  livid,  fleshy,  bell-shaped  then  convex,  at 
length  flattened,  somewhat  umbonate,  unequal  (but  not  repand),  even, 
viscid,  smooth,  at  length  longitudinally  cracked,  at  length  slightly  stri- 
ate  at  margin.  Stem  3  in.  long,  3—4  lines  thick,  fibrous-fleshy,  solid, 
equal,  even  or  slightly  striate,  smooth,  naked,  white.  Gills  somewhat 
free,  emarginate,  rarely  rounded,  at  first  only  slightly  adnexed,  3-4  lines 
broad,  crowded,  ventricose,  white  then  flesh-color.  Fries. 

Odor  strong  of  new  meal,  wholly  that  of  A.  prunulus.  Very  scat- 
tered in  growth.  Like  A.  lividus,  but  very  different,  thrice  as  small. 
It  differs  entirely  from  A.  cervinus. 

On  the  ground  in  woods.  Autumn.  Spores  subglobose,  coarsely 
warted,  io/u,  Massee;  regularly  six-angled  or  one  angle  more  marked, 
Sp.  B.;w  W.P. 

North  Carolina,  dry  swamps,  Curtis;  Minnesota,  Johnson. 

POISONOUS.     Roze. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species.     Do  not  eat  it  before  carefully  testing. 

Ill— NOLANI'DEI. 
Pileus  thin,  hygrophanons ,  repand,  etc. 

• 

E.  clypea'tum  Linn. — resembling  a  shield.  Pileus  as  much  as  3  in. 
broad,  lurid  when  moist,  when  dry  gray  and  variegated  or  streaked  with 
darker  spots  or  lines,  fleshy,  bell-shaped  then  flattened,  umbonate, 
smooth,  fragile.  Flesh  thin,  white  when  dry.  Stem  almost  3  in.  long, 
3-4  lines  and  more  thick,  stuffed,  at  length  hollow,  wholly  fibrous,  equal, 
round,  fragile,  longitudinally  fibrillose ,  becoming  ash-colored,  pulveru- 

252 


Rhodosporee 

lent  at  the  very  apex.     Gills  roimded-adnexed,   separating-free,   3-4  Entoioma. 
lines  broad,  ventricose,  somewhat  distant,  dingy,  then  red-pulverulent 
with  the  spores,  serrulated  at  the  edge  chiefly  behind. 

It  has  occurred  in  May  cespitose ;  better  developed  and  solitary  in 
the  end  of  August. 

In  woods,  gardens  and  waste  places.  Frequent.  Spring,  autumn. 
Stevenson, 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Ohio,  Morgan;  New  England, 
Frost;  California,  H.  andM.;  Rhode  Island,  Bennett;  New  York,  Peck, 
Rep.  23. 

POISONOUS.     Leuba. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species.  It  should  not  be  eaten  before  careful 
testing. 

E.  rhodopo'litim  Fr.  Gr. — rose;  Gr. — gray.  Pileus  2-5  in.  broad, 
hygrophanous,  when  moist  dingy-brown  (young)  or  livid,  becoming  pale 
(when  full  grown),  when  dry  isabelline-livid ,  silky- shining ,  slightly- 
fleshy,  bell-shaped  when  young,  then  expanded  and  somewhat  umbo- 
nate  or  gibbous,  at  length  rather  plane  and  sometimes  depressed,  fibril- 
lose  when  young,  smooth  when  full  grown,  margin  at  the  first  bent  in- 
wards and  when  larger  undulated.  Flesh  white.  Stem  2-4  in.  long, 
3-5  lines  thick,  hollow,  equal  when  smaller,  when  larger  attenuated  up- 
wards and  white-pruinate  at  the  apex,  otherwise  smooth,  slightly  striate, 
white.  Gills  adnate  then  separating,  somewhat  sinuate,  slightly  dis- 
tant, 2-4  lines  broad,  white  then  rose-color.  Fries. 

Fragile,  commonly  large  and  often  handsome,  almost  inodorous. 

In  mixed  woods.      Frequent.     August  to  October. 

Spores  pretty  regular,  8-iox6-8/*  B.;  7/u-  W.G.S. 

New  England,  Frost;  Minnesota,  Johnson;  Iowa,  Brcendle;  Rhode 
Island,  Bennett;  Ohio,  Morgan;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  23d,  38th,  A. 
rhodopolius,  var.  umbilicatus  Pk.,  the  same  as  Clitopilus  subvilis  Pk., 
Rep.  40. 

Edible.     Panlet.     Edible.      Cooke. 


253 


Agaricacese 


CLITOPI'LUS  Fr. 

Gr. — a  declivity ;    Gr. — a  cap. 


( Plate  LXIII.) 


CLITOPILUS  PRUNULUS. 
One-third  natural  size. 


PileilS  more  or  less  excentric  or  regular,  margin  at  first  involute. 

Gills  more  or  less  decurrent,  never 
sinuate  nor  seceding  from  the  stem, 
salmon-color .  Stem  fleshy  or  fibrous , 
not  polished  and  cartilaginous  exter- 
nally, central,  expanded  upward  into 
the  flesh  of  the  pileus.  Spores 
smooth  or  warted. 

Closely  resembling  Eccilia,  differ- 
ing mostly  in  the  stem  not  being 
cartilaginous  at  the  surface.  Distin- 
guished from  Entoloma  by  the  gills 
not  being  sinuate. 

Agrees  in  structure  with  Clitocybe 
in  the  Leucosporae.  Massee. 

Growing  on  the  ground,   often  strong  smelling.      Caps  usually  de- 
pressed or  umbilicate  and  waved  on  margin. 

Some  of  the  best  of  edible  kinds  are  within  this  genus;  a  few  are  un- 
pleasant raw,  none  poisonous. 

Most  authors  follow  Fries  in  the  arrangement  of  the  species,  dividing 
them  into  two  groups,  the  Orcelli,  distinguished  by  deeply  decurrent 
gills  and  an  irregular,  scarcely  hygrophanous  pileus,  with  the  margin  at 
first  flocculose;  and  Sericelli,  distinguished  by  adnate  or  slightly  de- 
current  gills  and  a  regular  silky  or  hygrophanous-silky  pileus  with  a 
naked  margin.  This  arrangement  is  not  strictly  applicable  to  some  of 
our  species.  C.  abortivus,  C.  erythrosporus  and  C.  Noveaboracensis 
have  the  gills  deeply  decurrent  in  some  individuals,  adnate  or  slightly 
decurrent  in  others,  and  therefore  the  same  species  might  be  sought  in 
both  groups.  For  this  reason  the  primary  grouping  of  our  species  has 
been  made  to  depend  upon  the  variation  in  the  spore  colors.  By  far 
the  greater  number  of  our  species  appear  to  be  peculiar  to  this  country, 
only  two  of  them  occurring  also  in  Europe. 


254 


PLATE  LXIV. 


ANALYSIS  OF  SPECIES. 

Spores  and  mature  gills  flesh-colored I 

Spores  and  mature  gills  rosy-red 9 

Spores  very  pale  flesh-colored IO 

i .    Pileus  hygrophanous 8 

i .    Pileus  not  hygrophanous 2 

2 .    Pileus  gray  or  grayish-brown 5 

2 .    Pileus  some  other  color 3 

3.    Pileus  white  or  whitish 4 

3.    Pileus  pale  tan-color C.  pascuensis 

4.    Pileus  firm,  dry,  pruinate C.  prunulus 

4.    Pileus  soft,  slightly  viscid  when  moist C.  Orcella 

5 .    Pileus  large,  more  than   1.5  in.  broad C.  abortivus 

5 .    Pileus  small,  less  than  1.5  in.  broad 6 

6.    Spores  even C.  unitinctus 

6.    Spores  angular 7 

7.    Stem  longer  than  the  width  of  the  zoneless  pileus.  .  .  C.  albogriseus 
7.    Stem  shorter  than  the  width  of  the  commonly  zonate 

pileus C.  micropus 

8.    Pileus  brown  or  grayish-brown C.  subvilis 

8.    Pileus  white  or  yellowish-white C.  Woodianus 

9.    Stem  colored  like  the  pileus C.  erythrosporus 

9.    Stem  white,  paler  than  the  pileus C.  conissans 

10.    Pileus  even 1 1 

10.    Pileus  rivulose C.  Noveboracensis 

1 1 .    Stems  cespitose,  solid C.  caespitosus 

1 1 .    Stems  not  cespitose,  hollow C.  Seymourianus 

Peck,  42d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

SPORES  FLESH-COLOR. 

A.    SPORES  EVEN. 

C.  prn'imlns  Scop. — prunus,  plum.  (Plate  LXIII,  fig.  4,  5,  p. 2 5 4.) 
Pileus  fleshy,  compact,  at  first  convex  and  regular,  then  repand,  dry, 
pruinate,  white  or  ashy-white.  Flesh  white,  unchangeable,  with  a 
pleasant  farinaceous  odor.  Gills  deeply  decurrent,  subdistant,  flesh- 

255 


Agaricaceae 


Clitopiius.  colored.  Stem  solid,  naked,  striate,  white.  Spores  subelliptical, 
pointed  at  each  end,  10-1 1x5— 6/*. 

PileilS  1.5-3  m-  broad.     Stem  1-2  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick. 

Woods. 

Not  abundant,  but  edible,  and  said  to  be  delicious  and  one  of  the 
best  of  the  esculent  species.  Peck,  42 d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

June  to  October.      Most  plentiful  in  August  and  September. 

Very  plentiful  in  oak  woods  at  Angora,  West  Philadelphia,  moderate 
crops  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa. 

An  abortive  form  (see  Plate  LXIII,  fig.  2,  3,  p.  254)  occurs  not 
distinguishable  from  that  of  Armillaria  mellea.  It  grows  singly  and  in 
tufts,  very  variable  in  shape,  white,  tinged  with  brown  on  ruptured  sur- 
faces. This  form  equals  its  original. 

C.  prunulus  has  a  strong  smell  of  fresh  meal.    It  is  a  delicious  species. 

Stew.     It  is  one  of  the  very  best  in  patties,  croquettes,  etc. 


C.  Orcel'la  Bull.— Pileus 

(Plate  LXV.) 


fleshy,  soft,  plane  or  slightly  depressed, 
often  irregular,  even  when  young, 
slightly  silky,  somewhat  viscid  when 
moist,  white  or  yellowish- white.  Flesh 
white,  taste  and  odor  farinaceous.  Gills 
deeply  decurrent,  close,  whitish  then 
flesh-colored.  Stem  short,  solid,  floc- 
culose,  often  eccentric,  thickened  above, 
white.  Spores  elliptical,  a-iox5//.. 

Generally  a  little  smaller  than  the 
preceding  species,  softer  and  more  irre- 
gular, but  so  closely  allied  that  by  some 
it  is  considered  a  mere  variety  of  it.  It 
is  said  to  be  edible  and  of  delicate  flavor. 
It  occurs  in  wet  weather  in  pastures  and 
open  places.  Peck,  42 d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Grows  in  oak  woods,  Angora,  West  Philadelphia;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa. 
Qualities  same  as  C.  prunulus.     Delicious. 

C.  pascuen'sis  Pk. — pasture.  PileilS  fleshy,  compact,  centrally  de- 
pressed, glabrous,  reddish  or  pale-yellowish,  the  cuticle  of  the  disk 
cracking  into  minute  areas.  Gills  rather  narrow,  close,  decurrent, 

256 


CLITOPILUS  ORCELLA. 
Two-thirds  natural  size. 


Rhodosporee 

whitish,  becoming  flesh-colored.      Stem  short,  equal  or  tapering  down-  ciitopiius. 
ward,   solid,   glabrous,   colored  like  the  pileus.     Spores   subelliptical, 
pale  incarnate,  7.5—10x5—6/4. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  8-1 8  lines  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Pastures.      Saratoga  county. 

The  species  is  related  to  C.  prunulus  from  which  it  is  distinct  by  its 
shorter,  paler  spores,  its  glabrous  pileus  cracked  in  areas  on  the  disk 
and  tinged  with  red  or  yellowish  and  by  its  paler  gills.  From  C.  pseudo- 
orcella  it  differs  in  its  glabrous  pileus  with  no  silky  luster  and  in  its 
closer  gills.  Its  odor  is  obsolete  but  it  has  a  farinaceous  flavor.  It  is 
probably  esculent,  but  has  not  been  found  in  sufficient  quantity  to  afford 
a  test  of  qualities.  Peck,  42d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

C.  unitinct'lis  Pk. — one-colored.  Pileus  thin,  submembranaceous , 
flexible,  convex  or  nearly  plane,  centrally  depressed  or  umbilicate, 
glabrous,  subshining,  often  concentrically  rivulose,  grayish  or  grayish- 
brown.  Flesh  whitish  or  grayish-white,  odor  obsolete,  taste  mild. 
Gills  narrow,  moderately  close,  adnate  or  slightly  decurrent,  colored  like 
the  pileus.  Stem  slender,  straight  or  flexuous,  subtenacious,  equal, 
slightly  pruinose,  grayish-brown,  with  a  close  white  myceloid  tomentum 
at  the  base  and  white  root-like  fibers  of  mycelium  permeating  the  soil. 
Spores  elliptical,  7.5x5/4. 

Var.  afbidus.  Whitish  or  grayish-white,  not  rivulose.  Gills  broader. 
Spares  brownish  flesh-color. 

Pileus  6- 1 6  lines  broad.     Stem  about  I  in.  long,  I  line  thick. 

Woods  of  pine  or  balsam.     Albany  and  Essex  counties.     Autumn. 

The  variety  is  a  little  paler  than  the  typical  form,  with  gills  a  little 
broader,  but  is  probably  not  specifically  distinct.  Peckt  42d  Rep.  N. 
Y.  State  Bot. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species.     Edibility  not  reported. 

B.    SPORES  ANGULAR  OR  IRREGULAR. 
I .     Pileus  not  hygrophanous. 

C.  aborti'vus  B.  and  C. — abortive.      (Plate  LXIII,  fig.  I,  2,  3,  p. 
254.)    Pileus  fleshy,  firm,  convex  or  nearly  plane,  regular  or  irregu- 
lar, dry,  clothed  with  a  minute  silky  tomentum,  becoming  smooth  with 
age,  gray  or  grayish-brown.     Flesh  white,  taste  and  odor  subfarinace- 
17  257 


Agaricaceae 

ciitopiius.  ous.  Gills  thin,  close,  slightly  or  deeply  decurrent,  at  first  whitish  or 
pale  gray,  then  flesh-colored.  Stem  nearly  equal,  solid,  minutely  floc- 
culose,  sometimes  fibrous-striated,  colored  like  or  paler  than  the  pileus. 
Spores  irregular,  7.5-10x6.5^. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-3  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Ground  and  old  prostrate  trunks  of  trees  in  woods  and  open  places. 
August  and  September. 

Our  species  has  been  found  to  be  edible,  but  its  flavor  is  scarcely  as 
agreeable  as  that  of  some  other  species.  Peck,  42d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State 
Bot. 

It  requires  longer  cooking  than  C.  prunulus,  and  is  then  quite  equal 
in  excellence. 

The  fungus  is  so  named  because  of  the  abortive  form  of  it  frequently 
found  associated  with  it.  This  is  faithfully  portrayed  on  Plate  LXIII. 
This  is  in  every  way  similar  to  the  aborted  forms  of  C.  prunulus  and 
Armillaria  mellea. 

Both  forms  plentiful  near  Philadelphia.  The  undeveloped  masses 
are  also  similar  to  those  of  C.  prunulus. 

The  abortive  form  is  a  superior  edible  to  the  original. 

C.  popina'lis  Fr. — popina,  a  cook-shop.  Pileus  1-2  in.  across, 
flesh  thin,  flaccid,  convex  then  depressed,  somewhat  wavy,  glabrous, 
opaque,  gray,  spotted  and  marbled.  Flesh  grayish-white,  unchange- 
able. Gills  very  decurrent,  broader  than  the  thickness  of  the  flesh  of 
the  pileus,  lanceolate,  crowded,  dark-gray,  at  length  reddish  from  the 
spores.  Stem  stuffed,  I— 2  in.  long,  2  lines  thick,  equal,  often  flexu- 
ous,  naked,  paler  than  the  pileus.  Spores  subglobose,  slightly  angular, 
4-  5  /u.  Mas  see. 

Solitary  or  gregarious,  smell  pleasant  like  new  meal,  entirely  gray. 
Fries. 

Woods.  Gansevoort.  July.  The  whole  plant  is  of  a  grayish  color 
except  the  mature  gills,  which  have  a  flesh-colored  hue,  and  the  base 
of  the  stem,  which  is  clothed  with  a  white  tomentum.  It  has  a  farinace- 
ous odor.  Peck,  5 1st  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Scattered.     Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     September  to  November.    Mcllvaine. 

Edible,  pleasant. 

C.  carneo-al'bus  Wither. — light  flesh  color.    Pileus  up  to  i   in. 

258 


Rhodosporee 

across,  convex  then  expanded,  center  becoming  depressed  and  the  mar-  ciitopiius. 
gin  drooping,  even,  polished,  white,  the  disk  becoming  usually  tinged 
with  red.     Flesh  thin.     Gills  slightly  decurrent,   I  line  broad,  crowded, 
salmon  color.      Stem    1-1*2    in.  long,   I    line  thick,  about  equal,  solid, 
white.      Spores  globose,  nodulose,  7— 8ft  diameter. 

Inodorous;  gregarious. 

In  the  section  given  in  Cke.  Illustr.,  the  stem  is  represented  as  being 
distinctly  hollow.  Massec. 

New  York,  shaded  ground.     June.     Peck,  45th  Rep. 

C.  al'bogri'seus  Pk. — pale-gray.  Pileus  firm,  convex  or  slightly  de- 
pressed, glabrous,  pale-gray,  odor  farinaceous.  Gills  moderately  close, 
adnate  or  slightly  decurrent,  grayish  then  flesh-colored.  Stem  solid, 
colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  angular  or  irregular,  10— 1 1x7. 5/u.. 

Pileus  6-12  lines  broad.      Stem  1.5-2.5  in.  long,  1-2  lines  thick. 

Woods.  Adirondack  mountains.  August.  Peck,  42d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Scattered.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  woods.  August  to  October.  Mcll- 
vaine. 

Edible,  pleasant. 

C.  mfcropus  Pk. — short-stemmed.  Pileus  thin,  fragile,  convex  or 
centrally  depressed,  umbilicate,  silky,  gray,  usually  with  one  or  two  nar- 
row zones  on  the  margin,  odor  farinaceous.  Gills  narrow,  close,  ad- 
nate or  slightly  decurrent,  gray,  becoming  flesh-colored.  Stem  short, 
solid,  slightly  thickened  at  the  top,  pruinose,  gray  with  a  white  my- 
celium at  the  base.  Spores  angular  or  irregular,  iox6/A. 

Pileus  6-12  lines  broad.      Stem  8-10  lines  long,  i  line  thick. 

Thin  woods.      Essex  and  Rensselaer  counties.    August. 

This  species  is  closely  allied  to  the  preceding  one,  but  may  be  sepa- 
rated from  it  by  its  short  stem  and  silky  umbilicate  subzonate  pileus. 
Both  species  are  rare  and  have  been  observed  only  in  wet,  rainy  weather. 
Peck,  42d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Scattered;  markedly  umbilicate.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  woods.  August, 
September.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible,  pleasant. 


259 


Agaricaceae 

2.     Pileus  hygrophanous. 

ciitopiias.  C.  subvi'lis  Pk. — small  value.  Pileus  thin,  centrally  depressed  or 
umbilicate,  with  the  margin  decurved,  hygrophanous,  dark-brown  and 
striatulate  on  the  margin  when  moist,  grayish-brown  and  silky  shining 
when  dry,  taste  farinaceous.  Gills  subdistant,  adnate  or  slightly  decur- 
rent,  whitish  when  young,  then  flesh-colored.  Stem  slender,  brittle, 
rather  long,  stuffed  or  hollow,  glabrous,  colored  like  the  pileus  or  a  little 
paler.  Spores  angular,  7.5- IO/A. 

Pileus  8-15  lines  broad.      Stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng>  I-2  lmes  thick. 

Damp  soil  in  thin  woods.     Albany  county.      October. 

The  species  is  allied  to  C.  vilis,  from  which  it  is  separated  by  its 
silky-shining  pileus,  subdistant  gills  and  farinaceous  taste.  Peck,  42$ 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Scattered.     Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     September  to  November.     Mcllvaine. 

Edible,  pleasant. 

C.  Wood'ianus  Pk.  Pileus  thin,  convex  or  nearly  plane,  umbilicate 
or  centrally  depressed,  hygrophanous,  striatulate  on  the  margin  when 
moist,  whitish  or  yellowish-white  and  shining  when  dry,  the  margin 
often  wavy  or  flexuous.  Gills  close,  adnate  or  slightly  decurrent, 
whitish,  then  flesh-colored.  Stem  equal,  flexuous,  shining,  solid,  col- 
ored like  the  pileus.  Spores  subglobose,  angular,  6-7. 5/x. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.     Stem  2-3  in.  long,  2  lines  thick. 

Ground  and  decayed  prostrate  trunks  in  woods.  Lewis  county.  Sep- 
tember. 

This  species  is  perhaps  too  closely  allied  to  the  preceding,  but  it  may 
easily  be  separated  by  its  paler  color,  closer  gills  and  solid  stem,  though 
this  is  sometimes  hollow  from  the  erosion  of  insects.  Peck,  42d  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

C.  TJn'dei'WOOdii  Pk. — in  honor  of  L.  M .  Underwood.  Pileus  rather 
thin  but  fleshy,  nearly  plane  or  slightly  depressed  in  the  center,  even, 
whitish.  Gills  narrow,  close,  slightly  decurrent,  pale  flesh-colored. 
Stem  rather  short,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  solid,  whitish. 
Spores  subglobose,  4-5/4  long. 

Pileus  6— 1 8  lines  broad.     Stem  about  I  in.  long  and  2  lines  thick. 

260 


Rhodosporae 

Syracuse  and  Jamesville.     September  and  October.     L.  M .  Under-  ciitopiius. 
wood.     Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Dot. 

SPORES  ROSY-RED. 

C.  erythl'O'spoms  Pk.  Gr. — red-spored.  PileilS  thin,  hemispheri- 
cal or  strongly  convex,  glabrous  or  merely  pruinose,  pinkish-gray. 
Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  pink,  taste  farinaceous.  Gills  narrow, 
crowded,  arcuate,  deeply  decurrent,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Stem 
equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  hollow,  slightly  pruinose  at  the  top, 
colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  elliptical,  5x3-4^. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.     Stem  1-1.5  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick. 

Decayed  wood  and  among  fallen  leaves  in  woods.  Albany  and 
Ulster  counties.  September  and  October. 

The  species  is  easily  recognized  by  its  peculiar  uniform  color,  its  nar- 
row, crowded  and  generally  very  decurrent  gills  and  by  its  bright  rosy- 
red  spores.  Sometimes  individuals  occur  in  which  the  gills  are  less 
decurrent.  Peck,  42 d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  among  fallen  leaves.  Sparsely  gregarious.  Sep- 
tember to  November.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible,  good. 

C.  COilis'sans  Pk. — dusted.  Pileus  thin,  convex,  glabrous,  pale 
alutaceous,  often  dusted  by  the  copious  spores.  Gills  close,  adnate,  red- 
dish-brown. Stem  slender,  brittle,  hollow,  cespitose,  white.  Spores 
narrowly  elliptical,  7. 5x4/4. 

Pileus  I—I-5  in.  broad.     Stem  1—2  in.  long,  1-2  lines  thick. 

Base  of  an  apple  tree.      Catskill  mountains.      September. 

Remarkable  for  the  bright  rosy-red  spores  which  are  sometimes  so 
thickly  dusted  over  the  lower  pilei  of  a  tuft  as  to  conceal  their  real  color. 
The  species  is  very  rare.  Peck,  4.26.  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

SPORES  VERY  PALE  FLESH-COLORED,  MERELY  TINTED. 

C.  CSespito'sus  Pk. — tufted.  Pileus  at  first  convex,  firm,  nearly  reg- 
ular, shining,  white,  then  nearly  plane,  fragile,  often  irregular  or  eccen- 
tric, glabrous  but  with  a  slight  silky  luster,  even,  whitish.  Flesh  white, 
taste  mild.  Gills  narrow,  thin,  crowded,  often  forked,  adnate  or  slightly 

261 


Agaricaceae 

cntopiius.  decurrent,  whitish,  becoming  dingy  or  brownish-pink.  Stems  cespitose, 
solid,  silky-fibrillose,  slightly  mealy  at  the  top,  white.  Spores  5x4^. 

PiletlS  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng>  2-4  lines  thick. 

Thin  woods  and  pastures.      Ulster  county.     September. 

This  is  a  large,  fine  species,  very  distinct  by  its  cespitose  habit,  white 
color  and  very  pale  sordid-tinted  spores.  But  for  the  color  of  these  the 
plant  might  easily  be  taken  for  a  species  of  Clitocybe.  The  tufts  some- 
times form  long  rows.  Peck,  426  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.      October.     Mcllvaine. 

Tender,  not  much  flavor. 

C.  Noveboracen'sis  Pk. — New  York  Clitopilus.  Pileus  thin,  convex, 
then  expanded  or  slightly  depressed,  dingy  white,  cracked  in  areas  or 
concentrically  rivulose,  sometimes  obscurely  zonate,  odor  farinaceous, 
taste  bitter.  Gills  narrow,  close,  deeply  decurrent,  some  of  them  forked, 
white,  becoming  dingy,  tinged  with  yellow  or  flesh-color.  Stem  equal, 
solid,  colored  like  the  pileus,  the  mycelium  white,  often  forming  white 
branching  root-like  fibers.  Spores  globose,  4—  5/u.  broad. 

Var.  brevis.  Margin  of  the  pileus,  in  the  moist  plant,  pure  white. 
Gills  adnate  or  slightly  decurrent.  Stem  short. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  1-3  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  pastures.  Adirondack  mountains,  Albany  and  Rensselaer 
counties.  August  to  October. 

The  plant  is  gregarious  or  cespitose.  Sometimes,  especially  in  the 
variety,  it  grows  in  lines  or  arcs  of  circles.  The  margin  is  often  undu- 
lated, and  in  the  variety  it  is,  when  fresh  and  moist,  clothed  with  a  film 
of  interwoven  webby  white  fibrils  which  give  it  a  peculiar  appearance, 
and  if  the  spore  characters  are  neglected  it  might  be  mistaken  for  Clito- 
cybe phyllophila.  The  disk  is  often  tinged  with  reddish-yellow  or  rusty 
hues  when  moist,  and  its  rivulose  character  is  then  more  distinct.  A 
farinaceous  odor  is  generally  present,  especially  in  the  broken  or  bruised 
plant,  but  its  taste  is  bitter  and  unpleasant.  Sometimes  bruises  of  the 
fresh  plant  manifest  a  tendency  to  assume  a  smoky-brown  or  blackish 
color.  The  base  of  the  stem  is  sometimes  clothed  with  a  white  myceli- 
oid  tomentum.  Peck,  42d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

C.  Sey'mouriaims  Pk. — Pileus  fleshy,  thin,  broadly  convex  or  slightly 
depressed,  even,  pruinose,  whitish  with  a  dark  lilac  tinge,  sometimes 

262 


Rhodosporae 

lobed  and  eccentric.     Gills   narrow,  crowded,  decurrent,  some  of  them  ciitopih 
forked  at  the  base,  whitish  with  a  pale  flesh-colored  tint.      Stem  equal, 
sil'ky-fibrillose,  hollow.     Spores  minute,  globose  or  nearly  so,  3.5-4/4 
long. 

Pileus  1-2.5  m-  broad.     Stem  1.5-2.5  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick. 

Woods.    Lewis  county.    September.    Peck,  42 d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State Bot. 


LEPTO'NIA  Fr. 

Gr. — slender. 


Rosy-spored.  Stem  cartilaginous, 
tubular  (the  tube  stuffed  or  hollow), 
polished,  somewhat  shining.  PileilS 
thin,  umbilicate  or  with  a  darker 
disk,  cuticle  fibrillose  or  separating 
into  darker  scales,  margin  at  first  in- 
curved. Gills  at  first  adnexed  or  ad- 
nate  but  readily  separating.  Fries. 

The  Leptonias  are  related  to  the 
Clitopili  as  the  Collybiae  are  to  the 
Clitocybae.  The  species  are  small, 
elegant,  brightly  colored,  inodorous 
(except  A.  incanus),  and  abound  in 
rainy  weather.  Gregarious  or  grow- 
ing in  troops ;  on  the  ground,  com- 
monly on  dry  mossy  pastures,  but 
also  in  marshy  places.  Stevenson. 


(Plate  LXVI.) 


Leptonia. 


LEPTONIA. 


Six  American  species  reported.     I  have  not  seen  any. 


263 


Agaricaceee 


Nolaaea. 


(Plate  LXVII.) 


NOLA'NEA  Fr. 

Nola,  a  little  bell. 

Rosy-spored.  Stem  tubed,  the  tube 
more  rarely  stuffed  with  a  pith,  car- 
tilaginous, Pileus  somewhat  mem- 
branaceous,  bell-shaped,  somewhat 
papillate,  striate  and  sometimes  even, 
sometimes  also  clothed  with  flocci, 
margin  straight  and  at  the  first  pressed 
to  the  stem,  and  not  involute.  Gills 
free  or  adfixed,  and  not  decurrent. 
Fries. 

Nolanea  agrees  with  Leptonia  and 
Eccilia  among  the  pink-spored  species. 
It  corresponds  with  Mycena,  Galera 
and  Psathyra.  Several  Entolomata 
are  nearly  allied.  The  species  are 
thin  and  slender,  commonly  inodorous 
and  fragile,  though  some  of  them  are 

NOLANEA  PASCUA.  tough.      Growing   on  the   ground   in 

About  natural  size. 

summer  and  autumn.      Stevenson. 

Seven  American  species  reported.     None  seen  by  writer. 
Peck,  Rep.  24,  26,  35,  39,  50. 


264 


Rhodosporse 


ECCI'LIA  Fr. 

Gr. — I  hollow  out. 


(Plate  LXVIII.) 


ECCILIA     ATROPUNCTA. 

Two-thirds  natural  size. 


Stem  cartilaginous,  tubular  (the  Ecciiia. 
tube  hollow  or  stuffed ) ,  expanded  up- 
ward into  the  pileus,  which  is  some- 
what membranaceous  and  at  the  first 
turned  inward  at  the  margin.  Gills 
attenuated  behind,  truly  decurrent, 
becoming  more  so  when  the  pileus  is 
depressed,  and  not  separating  as  those 
of  Nolanea. 

Corresponding  in  structure  with 
Omphalia  of  the  white-spored  and 
Tubaria  of  the  brown-spored  series. 
Allied  to  Clitopilus  in  the  decurrent 

(Plate  LXIX.) 


gills,  but  separated  by  the  cartilagin- 
ous, smooth  stem. 

E.  car'neo-gri'sea  B.  and   Br. — 

caro,  flesh;  griseus,  gray.  Pileus 
about  I  in.  broad,  gray  flesh-color, 
umbilicate,  striate,  delicately  dotted, 
margin  slightly  glittering  with  dark 
particles.  Stem  about  \%  in.  long, 
slender,  fibrous-hollow  upward,  wavy, 
of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus,  shin- 
ing, smooth,  white-downy  at  the  base. 
Gills  adnato-decurrent,  somewhat  un- 
dulated, distant,  rosy,  the  irregular 
margin  darker.  Stevenson. 

Spores  irregularly  oblong,  rough, 
7x5/A  Masse e. 

Nova  Scotia,  Dr.  Somers. 

New  Jersey,   E.  B.  Sterling,  Au- 
gust, 1897;  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  common  under  pines,  Mcllvaine. 

265 


ECCILIA    CARNEO-GRISEA, 

Natural  size. 


Agaricacese 

Ecciiia.  This  neat  little  species  is  sweet  and  pleasant  raw,  and  when  cooked 
makes  an  agreeable  dish.  European  authorities  give  the  taste  as  un- 
pleasant, but  there  is  nothing  of  the  sort  about  the  American  repre- 
sentative. 


CLAU'DOPUS  Smith. 
Claudus — lame ;  pous — a  foot. 

ciaudopus.       Pileus  eccentric,  lateral  or  resupinate.      Spores  pinkish. 

The  species  of  this  genus  were  formerly  distributed  among  the  Pleu- 
(Plate  LXX.)  roti  and  Crepidoti,    which  they  re- 

semble in  all  respects  except  the 
color  of  the  spores.  The  genus  at 
first  was  made  to  include  species  with 
lilac-colored  as  well  as  pink  spores, 
but  Professor  Fries  limited  it  to  spe- 
cies with  pink  spores.  In  this  sense 
we  have  taken  it.  The  spores  in 
some  species  are  even,  in  others 
rough  or  angulated.  The  stem  is 
either  entirely  wanting  or  is  very 
short  and  inconspicuous,  a  character 
indicated  by  the  generic  name.  The 
pileus  often  rests  upon  its  back  and 
is  attached  by  a  point  when  young, 

but  it  becomes  turned  backward  with  age.     The  species  are  few  and  in- 
frequent.    All  inhabit  decaying  wood. 


CLAUDOPUS  VARIABILIS. 
Natural  size. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  THE  SPECIES. 

Pileus  yellow C.  nidulans 

Pileus  white  or  whitish I 

i .    Spores  even C.  variabilis 

1 .  Spores  angulated C.  depluens 

Pileus  gray  or  brown 2 

2.  Pileus  striatulate  when  moist C.  Greigensis 

2 .    Pileus  not  striatulate C.  byssisedus 

Peck,  39th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

266 


C.  ni'dlllans  Pers. — nidus,  a  nest.  Pileus  1-3  in.  broad,  stemless,  ciaudopus. 
attached  by  the  pileus  or  rarely  narrowed  behind  into  a  short  stem-like 
base,  caps  often  overlapping  one  another,  suborbicular  or  kidney-shaped, 
downy ,  somewhat  pointed-hairy  or  scaly-hairy  toward  the  margin,  yellow 
or  buff  color,  the  margin  at  first  turned  inward.  Lamellae  rather  broad, 
moderately  close  or  subdistant,  orange-yellow.  Spores  even,  slightly 
curved,  6-S//,  long,  about  half  as  broad,  delicate  pink. 

Decaying  wood.  Sandlake.  Catskill  and  Adirondack  mountains. 
Autumn. 

This  fungus  was  placed  by  Fries  among  the  Pleuroti,  and  in  this  he 
has  been  followed  by  most  authors.  But  the  spores  have  a  delicate 
pink  color  closely  resembling  that  of  the  young  lamellae  of  the  common 
mushroom,  Agaricus  campestris.  We  have,  therefore,  placed  it  among 
the  Claudopodes,  where  Fries  himself  has  suggested  it  should  be  placed 
if  removed  at  all  from  Pleurotus.  Our  plant  has  sometimes  been  referred 
to  Panus  dorsalis  Bosc.,  but  with  the  description  of  that  species  it  does 
not  well  agree.  The  tawny-color,  spoon-shaped  pileus,  pale  floccose 
scales,  short  lateral  stem  and  decurrent  lamellae  ascribed  to  that  species 
are  not  well  shown  by  our  plant.  The  substance  of  the  pileus,  though 
rather  tenacious  and  persistent,  can  scarcely  be  called  leathery.  The 
flesh  is  white  or  pale  yellow.  The  hairy  down  of  the  pileus  is  often 
matted  in  small  tufts  and  intermingled  with  coarse  hairs,  especially 
toward  the  margin.  This  gives  a  scaly  or  pointed-hairy  appearance. 
The  color  of  the  pileus  is  often  paler  toward  the  base  than  it  is  on  the 
margin.  Peck,  39th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  November,  1898,  decaying  stumps.     Mcllvaine. 

An  autumnal  species  growing  upon  wood.      Not  common. 

The  light  yellow  tomentosity  of  the  cap  arranges  itself  into  shapes  as 
fascinating  as  crystals  of  snow. 

Taste  pleasant,  mild.  Texture  more  solid  than  P.  ostreatus,  con- 
sequently tougher.  It  is  edible  but  not  desirable.  Must  be  chopped 
fine  and  cooked  well. 


267 


Agaricacese 


Series  III.     OCHRO'SPOILffi  (Dermini).     Spores  brown. 

Ochrosporae,  third  in  color  series,  ranges  in  spore  color  from  dull 
ochraceous,  through  bright  ocher,  to  rusty  orange  and  ferruginous  or 
iron-rust.  The  various  shades  will  tax  even  a  color  expert. 

There  are  no  species  in  the  series  corresponding  to  Amanitae.  In 
Acetabularia  there  is  a  cup-like  volva ;  in  Pholiota  there  is  a  distinct 
interwoven  ring  on  the  stem ;  in  Cortinarius  the  secondary  veil  is  like  a 
cobweb,  and  may  form  an  imperfect  zone  around  the  stem,  or  hang  as 
fibers  from  the  margin  of  the  cap;  Pluteolus  exactly  resembles  Pluteus. 

There  are  many  edible  species  of  good  quality  in  the  series.  None 
are  known  to  be  poisonous.  The  substance,. as  a  rule,  is  tougher  than 
in  most  of  the  preceding  genera,  and  in  many  instances  has  a  strong 
woody  flavor.  Several  species  are  late  growers,  and  are  among  the  best 
of  fungi.  Notably  in  Pholiota. 


ACETABULA'BIA  Berk. 
Acctabulum,  a  vinegar-cup.      From  the  cup-like  volva. 

Acetabularia.       Universal  veil  distinct  from  the  pileus  ;    hymenophore  distinct ;    gills 
free;   spores  pallid,  tawny  or  brown. 
Analogous  to  Volvaria  and  Chitonia. 
No  American  species  reported. 


268 


PLATE  LXXI. 


OCHROSPORAL 


FLAMMULA. 


7  J  PAXILLUS 


NAUCORIA. 


GALERA.\        //PLUTEOLUS. 


TuBARIA. 


CHART  or  GENERA  IN  intowx-sroRED  SERIKS — OciiRosroRAE,  PAGE  2G8 


Ochrosporse 

PHOLIO'TA  Fr. 

Gr. — a  scale. 

i 

Pileus  more  or  less  fleshy.     Gills  adnate,  with  or  without  a  decur-  Phoiiota. 
rent  tooth,  tawny  or  rust  colored  at  maturity  from  the  spores.     Flesh 
of  stem  continuous  with  that  of  the  pileus.     Ring  distinct,  interwoven. 
Spores  sepia-brown,  bright  yellowish-brown  or  light  red. 

Generally  on  wood,  sometimes  on  the  ground  in  damp  moss,  fre- 
quently densely  cespitose.  Some  of  the  species  are  large  and  bright 
colored.  Distinguished  from  all  other  genera  of  the  brown-spored 
series  by  the  possession  of  a  distinct  ring.  In  Cortinarius  the  veil  and 
ring  are  web-like. 

Stevenson  notes  in  his  description  of  the  genus:  "None  are  to  be 
commended  as  edible."  My  investigation  shows  that  there  are  several 
delicious  species,  notably  P.  squarrosa  and  subsquarrosa.  Their  late- 
ness and  plentifulness  make  them  valuable  food  fungi.  I  have  nothing 
but  praise  for  the  entire  genus. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

A.  HUMIGENI  (humus,  ground;  gigno,  to  bear).     Page  270. 

On  the  ground,  rarely  cespitose. 

*  Eudermini.      Gr. — well;   dermini,  the  brown-spored  series. 
Spores  ferruginous. 

**  Phaeoti.      Gr. — dusky. 

Spores  dusky  rust-colored. 

« 

B.  TRUNCIGENI  (truncus,  a  trunk;  gigno,  to  bear).     Page  273. 

On  wood ;   subcespitose. 

*  yEgeritini.     P.  csgerita,  the  type  of  the  section. 

Pileus  naked,  not  scaly,  sometimes  cracked.  Gills  pallid,  then  red- 
dish or  dusky.  None  known  to  be  edible. 

*  Squamosi — squama,  a  scale. 

Pileus  scaly,  not  hygrophanous.      Gills  becoming  discolored. 

*  Gills  not  becoming  purely  rust-colored. 

*  Gills  yellow,  then  rust-color  or  tawny. 

*  Hygrophani.      Gr. — moist;   to  appear. 
Gills  cinnamon,  not  at  first  yellow. 

269 


Agaricacese 

C.     MusciGENl  (muscus,  moss;  gigno,  to  bear). 
Phoiiota.       Hygrophanous.      Like  Galera  with  a  ring. 

A.     HUMIGENI.     On  ground. 
*  Eudermini.     Spores  ferruginous. 

P.  capera'ta  Pers. — capero,  to  wrinkle.  (Plate  LXXla,  fig.  2,  page 
268.)  Pileus  3—5  in-  broad,  more  or  less  intensely  yellow,  fleshy,  but 
thin  in  proportion  to  its  size  and  robust  stem,  ovate  then  expanded,  ob- 
tuse, viscid  only  when  moist  and  not  truly  so,  even  at  the  disk,  wrinkled 
in  pits  at  the  sides,  incrusted  with  white  superficial  ftocci.  Stem  4-6 
in.  long,  more  than  I  in.  thick,  solid,  stout,  cylindrical  with  exception 
of  the  base  which  is  often  tuberous,  shining  white,  scaly  above  the  ring, 
ivliicJi  is  membranaceous,  reflexo-pendiilous,  and  broken  into  sqnamnlcs 
at  the  apex.  Grills  adnate,  crowded,  thin,  somewhat  serrated,  clay-cm- 
namon. 

When  young  the  pileus  is  incrusted  with  the  veil  or  with  white  mealy- 
floccose  soft,  hairy  down,  which  is  crowded  on  the  even  disk  and  scaly 
towards  the  thin  pitted-furrowed  margin ;  and  as  this  separates  the 
pileus  is  naked.  Veil  universal,  floccoso-mealy,  at  the  first  cohering 
in  the  form  of  a  volva  but  not  continuous;  in  rainy  weather  remaining 
in  the  form  of  a  volva  at  the  base.  Spores  dark  ferruginous  on  a  white- 
ground,  paler  on  a  black  ground.  There  is  a  smaller  form  (A.  ma- 
cropus  Pers.)  in  pine  woods,  pileus  even  and  paler.  Stem  3  in.  long, 
and  without  a  tuberous  base.  Ring  oblique  and  often  incomplete.  Stev. 

Spores  IO/A  B.  and  Br.;  12x4^  W.  P.;  spheroid-ellipsoid,  unigut- 
tate,  i  i-i2x8-9ju,  K.;  12x4. 5/x.  Massee. 

Not  previously  reported. 

This  fungus  occurs  sparingly  in  rich  woods  near  Boston.  It  is  much 
esteemed  in  Germany,  and  eagerly  sought  by  the  common  people,  who 
call  it  familiarly  the  "Zigeuner"  (Gypsy).  Boston  Myc.  Club  Bull. 
1896. 

I  have  found  this  species  in  but  one  place — on  the  south  hill  of  the 
great  Chester  valley,  Pa.,  where  it  grows  plentifully  in  woods.  The 
taste  raw  was  slightly  acrid,  but  when  cooked  this  disappeared.  Many 
ate  of  the  species  and  enjoyed  it. 

270 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Briscoe—  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


FIG. 

1.  HEBELOMA  GLTJTINOSUM, 

2.  PHOLIOTA  CAPERATA, 


PAGE.       FIG. 

3     PHOLIOTA  SQUARROSA, 
270  4.    PHOLIOTA  SUBSQUARROSA, 


PAGE 
273 
275 


Ochrosporse 

P.  togllla'ris  Bull. — togula,  a  little  cloak.  From  the  ample  ring.  Phoiiota. 
PileilS  i  >2  in.  broad,  pallid  ochraceous,  fleshy,  soft,  bell-shaped  then 
expanded,  obtuse,  orbicular,  witJiont  stria,  smooth.  Flesh  thin,  soft, 
becoming  yellow.  Stem  3-4  in.  long,  2  lines  thick,  tubed,  rigid,  equal, 
cylindrical,  rough  with  stiff  fibers,  naked  and  becoming  yellow  at  the 
apex,  becoming  dingy  brown  downward.  Ring  medial,  more  than  I  in. 
distant,  entire,  spreading-reflexed.  Gills  adnato-separating,  ventricose, 
crowded,  narrowed  in  front,  becoming  yellow,  at  length  pale  rust-color, 
never  becoming  dingy  brown. 

Protean,  slender,  very  variable  in  stature,  growing  in  troops,  b.  More 
slender,  but  densely  gregarious,  with  the  wholly  pallid  smooth  stem 
thinner,  often  flexuous.  This  form  is  exactly  A.  mesodactylus  Berk. 
c.  Very  small.  Pileus  I  in.  Stem  I  in.  or  a  little  more,  scarcely  I 
line  thick,  very  flexuous,  becoming  rust-color.  Stevenson. 

Spores  elliptical,  8x3.5^  Massee. 

New  Jersey,  on  decayed  chips  mixed  with  dirt.  May,  1898.  E.  B. 
Sterling. 

Not  previously  reported. 

The  specimens  sent  were  tested  and  found  to  be  of  good  quality. 


**  Phae'oti.     Spores  fuscous — ferruginous  (dingy  rust-color). 

P.  du'ra  Bolt. — durus,  hard.  Pileus  3  in.  and  more  broad,  tawny, 
tan-color,  becoming  dingy  brown,  fleshy,  somewhat  compact,  convexo- 
plane,  obtuse,  smooth,  then  cracked  into  patches,  margin  even.  Stem 
commonly  curt,  2  in.  long,  about  %  in.  thick,  stuffed,  even  solid,  hard, 
becoming  silky-even,  then  longitudinally  cracked  when  dry,  thickened 
at  the  apex,  mealy  and  more  than  usually  widened  into  the  pileus,  vary- 
ing ventricose  and  irregularly-shaped.  Ring  torn.  Gills  adnate,  striato- 
decurrent  with  a  tooth,  ventricose,  %  in.  broad,  livid  then  dingy  rust- 
color. 

The  stem  is  abundantly  furnished  with  fibrillose  rootlets  at  the  base. 
Although  very  closely  allied  to  A.  praecox,  it  is  readily  distinguished 
by  its  rust-color  or  brown-rust  spores.  Stevenson. 

Spores  9x5/x  W.G.S.;  8-9x5-61".  Massee. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.     June  to  October.      Florist's  garden,  Mcllvaine. 

After  rains  P.  dura  appears,  solitary,  from  spring  to  autumn.  The 

271 


Agaricaceae 


Phoiiota.  cracked  cap,  in  mature  specimens,  distinguishes  it  from  other  species 
found  on  its  habitat.  It  varies  in  size  from  iK  in.  up  to  4  in.  across. 
The  caps  are  excellent. 

P.  prse'cox  Pers. — pracox,  early.     Pileus   1-2  in.  broad,  convex  or 
(Plate  LXXII.)  nearly  plane,  soft,  nearly  or  quite  gla- 

brous, whitish,  more  or  less  tinged  with 
yellow  or  tan-color.  Gills  close,  ad- 
nexed,  at  first  whitish,  then  brownish  or 
rusty-brownish.  Stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng> 
2-2.5  lines  thick,  rather  slender,  mealy 
or  glabrous,  stuffed  or  hollow,  whitish. 
Spores  elliptical,  rusty-brown,  io-i3x 
6-8/*. 

The  Early  Phoiiota  is  a  small  but 
variable  species.  From  other  similarly 
colored  species  that  appear  in  grassy 
ground  early  in  the  season,  the  collar  on 
the  stem  will  generally  distinguish  it. 
Its  cap  is  usually  convex  when  young 
but  nearly  flat  in  the  mature  plant.  It 

is  rather  pale  in  color  but  not  a  clear  white,  being  tinted  with  yellow  or 
pale  tan-colored  hues.  The  gills  are  whitish  when  the  cap  first  opens, 
but  they  soon  change  to  a  rusty-brown  hue  in  consequence  of  the  ripen- 
ing of  the  spores.  They  are  excavated  at  the  inner  extremity  and 
slightly  attached  to  the  stem.  They  are  ventricose  when  the  cap  is 
fully  expanded.  The  stem  is  rather  slender,  nearly  or  quite  straight 
and  soon  smooth  and  hollow.  It  is  pale  or  whitish,  and  usually  furnished 
with  a  small  collar.  Sometimes  the  collar  is  slight  and  disappears  with 
age  and  sometimes  the  fragments  of  the  veil  remain  attached  to  the 
margin  of  the  cap  leaving  nothing  for  a  collar. 

The  plants  usually  grow  in  grassy  ground,  lawns  and  gardens,  and 
appear  from  May  to  July. 

Var.  minor  Batt.  is  a  small  form  having  the  cap  only  about  I  in. 
broad  and  the  remnants  of  the  veil  adherent  to  the  margin  of  the  cap. 
It  is  represented  by  figures  6  to  12. 

Var.  sylvestris  Pk.  has  the  center  of  the  cap  brownish  or  rusty-brown, 
and  grows  in  thin  woods.  Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

272 


PHOLIOTA  PR.ECOX. 
After  Peck. 


Ochrosporee 

Spores  inclining  to  fuscous,  spheroid-ellipsoid,  8-13x5-7/1,  K.;  8x6/*  Phoiiota. 
W.  G. S.;  8- i 3x6-7^  Massee. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina,   Pennsylvania,   May  to 
August.     On  rich  ground,  lawns,  gardens,  etc.     Mcllvaine. 

Coming  as  it  does   in  early  spring,  it  is  a  prized  species  wherever 
found. 

The  caps  only  are  good. 


B.    TRUNCIGENI.     On  wood. 


Squamosi.      Scaly. 


(Plate  LXXIII.) 


P.  squarro'sa  Mull.—squarrosits,  scurfy.  (Plate  LXXLz,  fig,  3,  page 
270.)  Pileus  3-5  in.  broad,  saf- 
fron-rust-color, scaly  with  innate, 
crowded,  revoltite,  darker  (be- 
coming dingy  brown),  persistent 
scales,  fleshy,  convex  bell-shaped 
then  flattened,  commonly  obtusely 
umbonate  or  gibbous,  dry.  Flesh 
light-yellow,  compact  when 
young,  sometimes  thin.  Stems 
curt  when  young,  as  much  as  8 
in.  long  when  full-grown,  as  much 
as  i  in.  thick  at  the  apex,  re- 
markably attenuated  downwards, 
stuffed,  scaly  as  far  as  the  ring 
with  crowded,  revolute,  darker 
scales.  Ring  only  slightly  distant 
from  the  apex,  rarely  membrana- 
ceous,  entire  or  often  slashed, 
general^  floccoso-radiate,  of  the  same  color  as  the  scales.  Gillsadnate 
with  a  decurrent  tooth,  crowded,  narrow,  pallid-olivaceous  then  rust- 
color. 

Spores  ferruginous.      Very  cespitose,  forming  large  heaps.     Stems 
commonly  cohering  at  the  base,  varying  very  much  in  stature  in  the 


PHOLIOTA  SQUARROSA. 
One-half  natural  size. 


18 


273 


Agaricaceee 

Phoiiota.  same  cluster ;  varying  also  much  thinner,  scarcely  ever  curved-ascend- 
ing. Odor  heavy,  stinking;  sometimes,  however,  obsolete.  Stevenson. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  7-8x4-5/x  K.;  4x5;*  W.G.S.;  ^^Massee. 

On  trunks  of  trees,  on  and  near  stumps,  etc.  Common.  August  to 
December. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  On  rotten 
wood  and  stumps.  August  to  long  after  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

The  American  species,  as  I  have  repeatedly  found  it,  is  not  so  large  as 
given  in  the  European  description,  and  the  habitat  is  more  closely  con- 
fined to  the  trunks  of  standing  trees  and  stumps  not  much  decayed.  It 
is  a  showy  species,  to  be  seen  from  afar  off,  especially  after  the  leaves 
fall.  Taste  when  young,  raw,  is  sweet,  mealy;  when  mature,  like  stale 
lard. 

Cooked,  the  caps  are  of  good  substance  and  flavor.  One  of  the  very 
best. 

P.  squarrosoi'des  Pk. — squarrosus,  scurfy;  eidos,  form.  Pileiis 
firm,  convex,  viscid  when  moist,  at  first  densely  covered  by  erect  papil- 
lose or  subspinose  tawny  scales,  which  soon  separate  from  each  other, 
revealing  the  whitish  color  and  viscid  character  of  the  pileus.  Lamellse 
close,  emarginate,  at  first  whitish,  then  pallid  or  dull  cinnamon  color. 
Stem  equal,  firm,  stuffed,  rough  with  thick  squarrose  scales,  white 
above  the  thick  floccose  ring,  pallid  or  tawny  below.  Spores  minute, 
elliptical,  5X4A*- 

Densely  cespitose,  3-6  in.  high.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.  Stem  3-5 
lines  thick. 

Dead  trunks  and  old  stumps  of  maple.  Adirondack  and  Catskill 
mountains.  Autumn. 

This  is  evidently  closely  related  to  A.  squarrosus,  with  which  it  has, 
perhaps,  been  confused,  but  its  different  colors  and  viscid  pileus  appear 
to  warrant  its  separation.  Peck,  3ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Occurred  in  large  clusters  on  sugar  maples  at  Eagle's  Mere  in  Octo- 
ber, and  on  stumps  at  Mt.  Gretna.  It  very  closely  resembles  P.  squar- 
rosa.  Its  caps  are  of  the  very  best. 


274 


Ochrosporas 

P.  SUbsquarro'sa  Fr. — sub,  under;  squarrosus,  scurfy.  (Plate  LXXI#,  Phoiiota. 
tig.  4,  p.  270.)  PileilS  2  in.  and  more  broad,  brown  rust-color,  with 
darker,  adpressed,  floccose  scales,  fleshy,  convex,  obtuse  or  gibbous, 
viscid.  Stem  3  in.  long,  4-5  lines  thick,  stuffed  (often  hollow  when 
old),  equal,  yel!ow-rust-color,  clothed  with  darker  scales  which  are 
adpressed,  or  spreading  only  at  the  apex,  not  rough,  furnished  with  an 
annular  zone  at  the  apex,  becoming  yellow-rust-color  within.  Grills 
deeply  sinuate,  emarginate,  almost  free,  arcuate,  crowded,  at  first  pale 
then  dingy  yellow. 

Spores  rust-color.  The  pileus  is  viscid,  but  not  glutinous  like  that 
of  A.  adiposus.  It  holds  a  doubtful  place  between  A.  aurivellus  and 
A.  squarrosus,  departing  from  both,  however,  in  the  gills  being  at  the 
first  yellow;  and  from  A.  squarrosus,  to  wrjich  it  is  more  like,  in  the 
gills  being  emarginato-free,  not  decurrent.  Somewhat  cespitose.  Al- 
most inodorous.  Fries. 

Spores  ferruginous,  size  not  stated. 

West  Philadelphia,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  September 
until  after  frosts.  Mcllvaine. 

Not  previously  reported. 

The  maple  trees  in  West  Philadelphia  frequently  show  large  clusters 
of  it  up  to  twenty  feet  from  ground ;  to  be  seen  from  afar  after  the  leaves 
have  fallen.  Our  American  species  differs  somewhat  from  the  European. 
American  species : 

PileilS  1—3  in.  across,  fleshy,  convex,  very  viscid,  rich  brownish- 
yellow,  covered  with  darker  adpressed  floccose  scales.  Flesh  slightly 
yellow.  Gills  white  when  very  young  slightly  emarginate,  adnexed, 
crowded,  K  in.  broad,  brown.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  1A  in.  thick,  equal 
or  tapering  toward  base,  stuffed,  then  hollow,  covered  with  squamose 
scales  as  far  up  as  the  slight  ring,  smooth  above  ring.  Ring  mem- 
branaceous,  slight. 

Spores  rust-color. 

The  species  is  variable  and  differs  greatly  in  youth  and  maturity. 

The  caps,  fried  in  hot  buttered  pan,  are  unexcelled. 

Equally  fine  in  croquettes  and  patties. 


275 


Agaricaceee 


Gills  yellow,  then  rust-color. 


Phoiiota.       P.   adipo'sa   Fr. — adeps,   fat. 

(Plate  LXXIV.) 


PHOLIOTA  ADIPOSA. 
About  natural  size. 


Pileus  fleshy,  firm,  at  first  hem- 
ispherical or  subconical,  then  convex, 
very  viscid  or  glutinous  when  moist, 
scaly,  yellow.  Flesh  whitish.  Gills 
close,  adnate,  yellowish  becoming 
rust-color  with  age.  Stem  equal  or 
slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  scaly 
below  the  slight  radiating  floccose 
ring,  solid  or  stuffed,  yellow,  gener- 
ally rust-color  at  the  base.  Spores 
elliptical,  7.6x5^. 

The  Fat  pholiota  is  a  showy  spe- 
cies. Its  tufted  mode  of  growth, 
rather  large  size,  yellow  color  and 
rusty-brown  scales  make  it  a  notice- 
able object.  The  stem  is  somewhat 
and  the  cap  very  viscid  when  moist, 
and  this  viscidity  when  dry  gives  it  a  shining  appearance.  The  scales 
of  the  cap  become  erect  or  reflexed  and  sometimes  appear  blackish  at 
the  tips.  They  sometimes  disappear  with  age.  The  flesh  is  firm  and 
white  or  whitish.  The  gills  when  young  are  yellow  or  pale-yellow,  but 
when  mature  they  assume  a  ferruginous  or  rusty  color  like  that  of  the 
spores.  The  stem  is  similar  in  color  to  the  cap,  but  paler  or  nearly 
white  at  the  top  and  usually  reddish-brown  or  rusty-brown  at  the  base. 
The  collar  is  slight  and  often  scarcely  noticeable  in  mature  specimens. 

The  Cap  is  2-4  in.  broad,  the  Stem  2-4  in.  long  and  4-6  lines  thick. 
The  plants  commonly  grow  in  tufts  on  stumps  or  dead  trunks  of  de- 
ciduous trees  in  or  near  woods.  They  may  be  found  from  September 
to  November.  It  is  well  to  peel  the  caps  before  cooking.  This  species 
is  not  classed  as  edible  by  European  authors,  but  I  find  its  flavor  agree- 
able and  its  substance  digestible  and  harmless.  Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Spores  8x5/*  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  ferruginous,  7x3/x.  Massee. 
Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     October  until  after  frost.     About  trees  and  stumps 
and  on  logs.     Mcllvaine. 

P.  adiposa  yields  a  substantial  substance  of  good  flavor. 

276 


Ochrosporse 

P.  flam'mans  Fr. — flamma,  flame.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  yellow-  Phoiiota. 
tawny,  fleshy,  convex  then  plane,  somewhat  umbonate,  absolutely  dry, 
sprinkled  with  superficial,  pilose,  somewhat  concentric,  paler  or  sulphur- 
yellow,  rough  or  curly  scales;  margin  at  first  inflexed,  then  spread  when 
larger.  Flesh  thin,  light  yellow.  Stem  3  in*,  long,  2—3  lines  thick, 
stuffed  then  hollow,  equal,  most  frequently  flexuous,  very  light  yellow 
as  are  also  the  crowded  rough  scales.  Ring  membranaceous,  entire, 
not  far  removed  from  the  pileus,  of  the  same  color.  Gills  adnate  and 
without  a  tooth,  somewhat  thin,  crowded,  at  the  first  bright  sulpliur- 
yellow,  at  length  rust-color,  edge  quite  entire. 

Pileus  by  no  means  hygrophanous.  It  is  distinguished  from  all  others 
by  the  sulphur-yellow  scales  on  the  tawny  pileus.  Forming  small  clusters. 
Inodorous.  The  ring  is  sometimes  only  indicated  by  an  annular  zone. 
Fries. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  4x21*  K.;  ellipsoid,  3-4x2-2. 5/*  C.B.P.;  4x2/4 
W.P.;  8x4/x  Massee. 

Quite  plentiful  in  the  New  Jersey  pines,  from  October  until  after 
heavy  frosts.  Caps  seldom  over  3  in.  across.  Solitary.,  and  in  clusters 
of  not  over  half  a  dozen. 

The  caps  fried  are  delicious. 

P.  luteofo'lia  Pk. — luteiis,  yellow;  folium,  a  leaf.  Pileus  firm,  con- 
vex, dry,  scaly,  fibrillose  on  the  margin,  pale-red  or  yellowish.  La- 
mellae broad,  subdistant,  emarginate,  serrate  on  the  edge,  yellow,  be- 
coming bright  rust-color.  Stem  firm,  fibrillose,  solid,  colored  like  the 
pileus,  often  curved  from  the  place  of  growth.  Ring  obsolete.  Spores 
bright  rust-color,  7x4/4. 

Plant  subcespitose,  2-3  in.  high.  Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.  Stem  3-5 
lines  thick. 

Trunks  of  birch  trees.      Forestburgh.     September. 

The  general  appearance  of  this  plant  is  like  A.  variegatus  or  reddish 
forms  of  A.  multipunctus.  The  reddish  color  appears  sometimes  to 
fade  with  age.  Peck,  2/th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.  In  clusters,  on  birch  trees.  August,  1898.  Mc- 
Ilvaine. 

Grows  in  quantity  in  the  birch  forests.     The  caps  are  delicious. 


277 


Agaricaceae 

Phoiiota.  P.  ornel'la  Pk.  (Agaricus  ornellus  Pk.,  34  Rep.,  p.  42.)  Pileus 
convex  or  nearly  plane,  slightly  squamose,  reddish-brown  tinged  with 
purple,  the  margin  paler,  floccose-appendiculate.  Gills  moderately 
close,  yellowish  or  pallid,  becoming  brown.  Stem  equal  or  slightly 
thickened  upward,  solid,  squamulose,  pale-yellow,  sometimes  expanded 
at  the  base  into  a  brownish  disk  margined  with  yellowish  filaments. 
Spores  brown,  elliptical,  6-7.5x4-5^. 

Plant  1-2  in.  high.  Pileus  about  I  in.  broad.  Stem  I  line  to  1.5 
lines  thick. 

Decaying  wood.      South  Ballston,  Saratoga  county.      October. 

The  scales  of  the  pileus  are  sometimes  arranged  in  concentric  circles. 
The  purplish  tint  is  not  always  uniform,  but  in  some  instances  forms 
spots  or  patches.  Peck,  34th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Specimens,  clustered,  found  by  me  on  railroad  ties  at  Haddonfield, 
N.  J.,  September,  1897,  had  caps  i-i  %  in.  broad,  of  a  dull  green 
without  tinge  of  purple  ;  skin  minutely  cracked,  showing  the  white  flesh 
in  the  interstices;  stem  I— 2  in.  long,  3—4  lines  thick,  slightly  thickened 
upward,  pale  orange,  solid,  squamulose;  ring  floccose  ;  taste  when  raw, 
slightly  bitter.  These  were  sent  to  Professor  Peck  who  wrote:  "Ap- 
pears to  be  a  form  of  P.  ornella  Pk.,  but  it  differs  some  in  color,  being 
more  of  a  green  hue  than  of  purple  or  olivaceous.  It  is  pretty  and  I 
would  like  to  know  more  about  it  before  deciding  on  it  fully." 

I  have  not  since  found  it.     Very  palatable  when  cooked. 

***  Hygrophani.      Gills  cinnamon,  etc. 

P.  muta'bilis  Schaeff. — changeable.  Pileus  about  2  in.  broad,  cin- 
namon when  moist,  becoming  pale  when  dry,  hygrophanous,  slightly 
fleshy,  convex  then  flattened,  commonly  obtusely  umbonate,  sometimes 
depressed,  even  andsmoot/t,  but  when  young  occasionally  scaly  through- 
out. Stem  about  2-3  in.  long,  2  lines  and  more  thick,  rigid,  stuffed 
then  hollow,  equal  or  attenuated  downward,  scaly-rough  as  far  as  the 
ring,  rust-color,  blackish  or  umber  downward,  often  ascending  or 
twisted.  Ring  membranaceous,  externally  scaly.  Gills  adnato-decur- 
rent,  crowded,  rather  broad,  pallid  then  cinnamon.  Stevenson. 

Densely  cespitose,  variable  in  stature. 

Spores  ellipsoid-obovate,  6xi  I/A  W.G. S. ;  7x4/1  W.P.\  9-11x5-6/4 
Massee ;  1 1  x7/u.  Morgan . 

Edible.      Curtis.      Considered  excellent  in  Europe. 

278 


Ochrosporae 

P.  margina'ta  Batsch. — marginatus,  margined.  Pileus  i  in.  and  Phoiiota. 
more  broad,  honey-colored  when  moist,  tan  when  dry,  hygrophanous, 
slightly  fleshy,  convex  then  expanded,  obtuse,  even,  smooth,  margin 
striate.  Stem  about  2  in.  long,  1-2  lines  thick,  tubed,  equal,  fibrillose 
or  slightly  striate,  not  scaly'  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus,  but  becom- 
ing dingy-brown,  and  commonly  white  velvety  at  the  base.  Ring  1—2 
lines  distant  from  the  apex,  often  in  the  form  of  a  cortina  and  fugacious. 
Gills  adnate,  crowded,  thin,  narrow,  at  first  pallid,  then  darker  cinna- 
mon. 

It  varies  much,  and  is  deceptive  on  account  of  the  vanishing  veil.  In 
hedges  there  is  a  very  small  cespitose  form  with  the  pileus  only  }•%  in. 
broad,  and  the  stem  tough  and  smooth,  with  exception  of  the  remains 
of  the  fugacious  cortina.  There  also  occur  on  the  ground  among 
mosses  smaller  and  paler  forms,  which  must  be  carefully  distinguished 
from  A.  unicolor,  etc.  Stevenson. 

Spores  7-8x41".  Massee. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  November,  December,  1896.  In  pine  woods. 
Mcllvaine. 

The  caps  of  this  small  Phoiiota,  seldom  over  I  /^  in.  across,  can  be 
gathered  in  goodly  numbers  where  it  frequents.  They  are  of  excellent 
quality. 

P.  dis'color  Pk. — changing  color.  Pileus  thin,  convex,  then  ex- 
panded or  slightly  depressed,  smooth,  viscid,  hygrophanous,  watery- 
cinnamon  and  striatulate  on  the  margin  when  moist;  bright  ochraceous- 
yellow  when  dry.  Lamella}  close,  narrow,  pallid  then  pale  rust-color. 
Stem  equal,  hollow,  fibrillose-striate,  pallid.  Ring  distinct,  persistent. 
Spores  elliptical,  7x5^. 

Plant  subcespitose,  2-3  in.  high.  Pileus  8- 1 6  lines  broad.  Stem 
I  line  thick. 

Old  logs  in  woods.      Greig.      September. 

The  change  of  color  from  the  moist  to  the  dry  state  is  very  marked. 
This  species  resembles  Agaricus  autumnalis,  in  which  the  annulus  is 
fugacious  and  the  spores  are  longer.  The  edge  of  the  gills  in  both  is 
white-flocculose.  Peck,  25th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Two  forms  of  this  species  are  found.  One  has  a  scattered  form  of 
growth,  the  other  found  on  decaying  wood  of  birch  is  cespitose.  The 

279 


Agaricaceee 

Phoiiota.  species  is  allied  to  P.  marginata,  from  which  it  is  readily  distinguished 
by  its  viscid  pileus.  Peck,  Rep.  44. 

Var.  discolor  minor  Pk.  Small.  Pileus  6— 10  lines  broad,  chestnut 
color  when  young  or  moist.  Stem  about  I  line  thick,  at  first  clothed 
with  whitish  fibrils. 

Among  mosses  about  or  on  the  base  of  stumps.  September.  Peck, 
Rep.  46. 

West  Virginia.  Eagle's  Mere,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  August  to  frost. 
On  decaying  wood.  Mcllvaine. 

This  little  Phoiiota  is  abundant  where  it  does  grow.  In  the  West 
Virginia  forests  I  have  seen  logs  with  many  tufts  of  it  upon  each.  The 
caps  are  fairly  good. 


280 


Ochrosporae 


(Plate  LXXV.) 


INO'CYBE  Fr. 

Gr. — fiber;  Gr. — head. 

Universal  veil  somewhat  fibrillose,  concrete  with  the  cuticle  of  the  inocybe. 
pileus,  often  free  at  the  margin,  in 
the  form  of  a  cortina.  Gills  some- 
what sinuate  (but  they  occur  also 
adnate  and  in  two  species  decur- 
rent),  changing  color,  but  not 
powdered  with  cinnamon.  Spores 
often  rough,  but  in  others  even, 
more  or  less  brownish-rust  color. 

Inocybe  (with  Hebeloma)  cor- 
responds with  Tricholoma.  In- 
ocybe and  Hebeloma  have  some 
common  features,  but  they  are 
really  very  distinct.  Inocybe  is 
readily  distinguished  by  the  fibril- 
lose  covering  of  the  pileus,  which 
never  has  a  distinct  pellicle,  by  the 

veil  which  is  continuous  and  homogeneous  with  the  fibrils  of  the  pileus, 
and  by  the  rusty-brown  spores.  All  grow  on  the  ground.  They  are 
(mostly)  strong-smelling  (commonly  nauseous).  None  are  edible. 
Stevenson. 

None  reported  as  either  edible  or  poisonous.     Those  I  have  tested 
are  not  pleasant. 


INOCYBE   LANUGINOSA. 
One-fourth  natural  size. 


28l 


Agaricaceee 

PLUTE'OLUS  Fr. 
Dim.  of  pluteus,  a  shed. 

PileilS  conical  or  bell-shaped,  then  expanded,  rather  fleshy,  viscid, 
margin  at  first  straight  and  pressed  to  the  stem.  Gills  free,  rounded 
behind.  Stem  somewhat  cartilaginous,  its  substance  different  from  that 
of  the  pileus. 

Growing  on  wood. 

Spores  rust  or  saffron  color.  Pluteus,  the  only  genus  having  the  same 
structure,  is  separated  by  its  salmon-colored  spores. 

P.  reticula'tus  Pers. — rete,  a  net.      From  the  net-work  of  veins  on 

(Plate  LXXVI.)  the   PileuS"      Pileus    slightly   fleshy, 

bell-shaped,  then  expanded,  sticky, 
reticulate  with  anastomosing  veins, 
pale  violaceous,  striate  on  the  margin. 
Lamellae  free,  ventricose,  crowded, 
rusty-saffron.  Stem  hollow,  fragile, 
fibrillose,  mealy  at  the  top,  white. 
Spores  elliptical,  ferruginous,  10- 
13x5-6.5/4. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.     Stem  1-2 
in.  long,   1—2  lines  thick. 

PLUTEOLL-S  RETICULATUS.  Decaying  wood.      Cattaraugus 

About  natural  size. 

county.      September. 

The  specimens  which  I  have  referred  to  this  species  appear  to  be  a 
small  form  with  the  pileus  scarcely  more  than  an  inch  broad  and  merely 
wrinkled  on  the  disk,  not  distinctly  reticulate  as  in  the  type.  In  the 
dried  specimens  the  pileus  has  assumed  a  dark  violaceous  color.  The 
dimensions  of  the  spores  have  been  taken  from  the  American  plant.  I 
do  not  find  them  given  by  any  European  author.  Peck,  46th  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

In  October,  1897,  P.  reticulatus  grew  in  large  quantities  on  a  fallow 
lot  close  by  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia.  The  lot  was 
thickly  covered  with  tall  heavy-stemmed  weeds,  a  mat  of  which,  from 
the  year  before  was  present.  The  reticulations  upon  the  cap  are  intri- 
cate and  distinct.  I  have  not  seen  it  since. 

The  whole  plant  is  tender  and  of  fine  flavor. 

282 


Ochrosporae 

HEBELO'MA  Fr. 

Hebe,  youth;  loma,  fringe. 

Partial  veil  fibrillose  or  absent.     PileilS  smooth,   continuous,   some-  Hebeioma. 
what  viscid,  margin  at  first  incurved.      Flesh  of  stem  continuous  with 
that  of  the  pileus ;  fleshy,  fibrous,  clothed,  top  rather  mealy.     Gills  at- 
tached, notched  at  the  stem,  edge  inclined  to  be  pale.      Spores  clay- 
colored. 

On  the  ground. 

Closely  allied  to  Inocybe,  formerly  included  in  Hebeioma,  but  differ- 
ing in  the  character  of  the  cuticle  of  the  pileus  which  in  Inocybe  is  scaly 
or  fibrillose.  Many  of  the  species  are  strong  in  smell  and  taste.  None 
have  hitherto  been  considered  edible  and  some  have  been  regarded  as 
poisonous 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

INDUSIATI  (indusium,  a  garment).      Page  283. 

Furnished  with  a  ring  from  the  manifest  veil,  which  often  makes  the 
margin  of  the  pileus  superficially  silky. 

DENUDATI  (denudo,  to  lay  bare).      Page  286. 
Pileus  smooth.     Veil  absent.     None  known  to  be  edible. 

PUSILLUS  (pusus,  a  little  boy). 
Pileus  scarcely  an  inch  broad.      None  known  to  be  edible. 

The  writer  has  not  as  yet  investigated  the  edible  qualities  of  this 
genus  to  his  satisfaction.  Much  work  remains  to  be  done.  But  two 
species  of  Hebeioma  are  given  as  edible.  They  are  good,  but  do  not 
rank  above  second-class.  Several  others  have  been  tested,  but  not  in 
sufficient  quantity  to  report  upon  their  quality  with  perfect  safety.  So 
far  as  tested  the  species  have  been  harmless. 

INDUSIA'TI.     With  a  ring,  etc. 

H.  mus'sivum  Fr. — mussivus,  undecided.  (Uncertain  in  generic 
place. )  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  either  of  one  color,  yellow  or  darker  at 
the  disk  which  is  like  a  smooth  sugar-cake,  fleshy,  compact,  firm,  con- 

283 


Agaricaceae 

Hebeioma.  vex  then  plane,  unequal,  very  obtuse,  viscid,  at  first  smooth  and  even, 
margin  bent  inward,  even,  then  commonly  turning  upward  and  broken 
up  into  scales.  Flesh  thick,  becoming  yellow.  Stem  4  in.  long,  com- 
monly i  in.  thick,  very  fleshy,  sometimes  stuffed,  sometimes  hollow  at 
the  top,  equal  or  broad  in  the  middle,  wholly  fibrillose  and  powdered  at 
the  top,  light  yellow.  Veil  fibrillose,  very  evanescent.  Gills  emargi- 
nate,  somewhat  crowded,  3  lines  broad,  dry  (not  distilling  drops),  at 
first  light  yellow,  then  together  with  the  spores  somewhat  rust-colored. 

Odor  weak,  not  unpleasant.  Very  distinct.  It  departs  widely  from 
all  the  following  species  in  its  habit  and  bright  colors.  The  habit  is 
that  of  a  Flammula  or  Cortinarius,  but  the  gills  are  emarginate  and  not 
powdered  ;  from  the  turned  up  pileus  and  from  the  stem  being  powdered 
at  the  top,  and  from  other  marks  it  is  to  be  referred  to  Hebeioma.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  I2x6/*  Massee. 

New  Jersey,  Haddonfield.  Under  pine  trees.  Solitary.  Frequent. 
September,  1896.  Mcllvaine. 

Not  previously  reported. 

Taste,  even  raw,  is  pleasant.  It  is  meaty  and  the  meat  is  good.  It 
requires  slow  cooking  and  is  best  chopped  fine  and  served  in  patties  or 
croquettes. 

H.  fasti'bileFr. — fastidibilis ,  loathsome.  From  the  smell.  Pileus  2  in. 
(Plate  LXXVIa.)  and    more    broad,   pale  yellowish, 

tan  or  becoming  pale,   compactly 
fleshy,     convexo-plane,     obtuse, 
somewhat  wavy,  even,  smooth,  the 
turned-in    margin    downy.      Stem 
2-3    in.    long,   Yz  in.    thick,    solid, 
wholly  fleshy-fibrous,  stout,  some- 
what bulbous,  often  twisted,  every- 
where   white-silky    and    fibrillose, 
white,  but  varying    pallid,   white- 
scaly  upward.     Cortina  remarka- 
ble, white,  occasionally  in  the  form  of  a  ring.      Gills  remarkably  emar- 
ginate, somewhat  distant,   rather  broad,  at  first  becoming  pale-white, 
then  dingy  clay-color,  edge  whitish,  distilling  drops  in  rainy  weather. 
Somewhat  cespitose       Odor  and  taste  of  radish,  bitterish.     Like  A. 


HEBELOMA  FASTIBILE. 
One-fourth  natural  size. 


284 


Ochrosporae 

crustiliniformis ;  the  odor  is  the  same  except  that  it  is  stronger,  but  it  Hebeioma. 
differs   conspicuously  in  the   manifest  veil  and  somewhat  distant  gills. 

Var.  atba,  stem  longer,  equal,  somewhat  hollow,  fibrous-scaly  at  the 
apex,  gills  distant.  A.  spiloleucus  Krombh.,  A.  sulcatus  Lindgr.  is 
an  elegant  form  with  the  margin  of  the  pileus  sulcate  or  rugoso-plicate. 

In  mixed  woods.      Common.     July  to  October.      Stevenson. 

Spores  iixS/x.  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  pointed,  lOxS/u,  Morgan. 

Var.  elegans.      Pileus  purple-brown. 

This  sometimes  appears  on  disused  mushroom  beds  in  large  quantities, 
but  the  method  by  which  the  spores  gain  access  is  involved  in  darkness. 

"A  very  suspicious  species  and  has  the  reputation  of  being  noxious." 
Cooke. 

"There  is  considerable  external  resemblance  between  this  and  A. 
campestris.  No  fungus  is  so  often  mistaken  for  A.  campestris  as  this 
dangerous  plant.  W.  G.  Smith. 

This  species  is  considered  noxious  abroad.  No  test  is  reported  of 
its  qualities  here. 

I  have  not  seen  it. 

H.  glutino'sum  Lind. — gluten,  glue.  (Plate  LXXla,  fig.  I,  p.  270.) 
Pileus  about  3  in.  broad,  yellow-white,  the  disk  darker,  fleshy,  con- 
vex then  plane,  regular,  obtuse,  with  a  tenacious  viscous  gluten,  and 
slimy  in  wet  weather,  sprinkled  with  white  superficial  scales.  Flesh 
whitish,  becoming  light-yellow.  Stem  3  in.  long,  stuffed,  firm,  some- 
wJiat  bulbous,  white-scaly  and  fibrillose,  and  white-mealy  at  the  top, 
often  rough  with  bundles  of  hairs  at  the  base,  at  length  rust-color  with- 
in. Partial  thread-like  veil  manifest,  in  the  form  of  a  cortina.  Gills 
sinuato-adnate,  somewhat  decurrent,  crowded,  broad,  pallid  then  light- 
yellowish,  at  length  clay-cinnamon.  Odor  peculiar,  mild. 

On  branches  and  among  leaves,  oak  and  beech.  Frequent.  Sep- 
tember to  December.  Stevenson. 

Spores  5x4/x  W.  P. ;  plum-shaped,  7/u.  Q.;  elliptical,  io-i2x5/x,  Mas- 
see;  ellipsoid,  6—7x3-4^1  K. 

New  York.  Among  fallen  leaves  and  half-buried  decaying  wood,  in 
thin  woods.  Conklingville.  September.  In  wet  weather  the  gluten 
is  sufficiently  copious  to  drop  from  the  pileus.  Peck,  Rep.  40. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  among  leaves  in  mixed  woods.    Frequent.    1896. 

285 


Agaricacese 

Hebeioma.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  among  leaves  under  oaks.  Frequent.  September  to 
November.  Mcllvaine. 

Caps  1/^—3  in.  across.  Remarkably  glutinous,  shining  as  if  var- 
nished when  wet.  Partial  veil  not  always  noticeable. 

The  odor  and  taste  are  pleasant.  The  caps  when  well  cooked  are 
meaty,  good,  but  of  second  quality. 

DENUDA'TI.     Pileus  smooth,  etc. 

H.  crustulinifor'me  Bull. — crustulum,  a  small  pie;  forma,  form. 
Pileus  pale-whitish  tan,  most  frequently  pale-yellowish  or  brick-color  at 
the  disk,  fleshy,  convexo-plane,  obtuse  or  slightly  gibbous  with  an  ob- 
tuse umbo,  somewhat  spreading  with  an  uneven  margin,  even,  smooth, 
at  first  slightly  viscid,  not  zoned.  Flesh  transparent  when  moist.  Stem 
stuffed  then  hollow,  stout,  somewhat  bulbous,  white,  naked,  white-scaly 
at  the  top.  Gills  rounded-adnexed,  crowded,  narrowed,  I  line  broad 
and  linear,  thin,  whitish  then  clay-color,  at  length  date-brown,  the  un- 
equal edge  distilling  watery  drops  in  wet  weather,  spotted  when  dry. 

Veil  quite  wanting.  Odor  strong,  fetid,  of  radish.  Very  variable 
in  stature;  the  stem,  however,  is  never  elongated  as  in  A.  elatus,  etc. ; 
in  smaller  specimens  equal,  pileus  regular,  gills  almost  adnate. 

In  mixed  woods.      Common.     August  to  November.     Stevenson. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  IO-I2X5-//X,  K.;  9x5/4  W.G.S. 

Var.  mi' nor  Cke.      Smaller  than  the  type. 

Minnesota,  common  in  woods,  Johnson;  California,  H.  and  M.;  Wis- 
consin, Bundy;  New  Jersey,  Ellis;  Vermont,  Burt{  Lloyd)  ;  New  York, 
Peck,  4ist  Rep..;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  November,  1898.  In  woods.  Mc- 
llvaine. 

But  one  specimen  found  and  that  was  sent  to  Professor  Peck.  Taste 
bitter. 

Regarded  as  poisonous  by  European  writers.  It  is  not  reported  as 
tested  in  America. 


Oclirosporse 

FLAM'MULA  Fr. 

Flamma,  a  flame. 
(In  reference  to  the  bright  colors  of  many  of  the  species.) 

Pileus  fleshy,  margin  at  first  turned  inward.     Veil  fibrillose  or  none.  Flammula. 
Stem  fleshy-fibrous,  not  mealy  at  the  top.     Gills  decurrent  or  attached 
without  a  tooth.      Spores  mostly  pure  rust  color;  some  brownish-rust, 
others  tawny-ochraceous. 

A  few  species  grow  on  the  ground,  the  majority  on  wood. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

GYMNOTI  (naked).      Page  288. 
Pileus  dry,  generally  scaly.     Spores  not  yellowish. 

LUBRICI  (lubricus,  slimy).     Page  289. 

Pileus  covered  with  a  continuous,  viscid,  smooth,  partly  separable 
cuticle.  Veil  fibrillose.  Spores  not  yellowish.  Gregarious,  on  the 
ground,  rarely  on  wood.  Distinguished  from  Hebeloma  by  the  gills  not 
being  sinuate  and  the  top  of  the  stem  not  mealy. 

UDI  (udus,  moist).     Page  290. 

Veil  slight,  generally  hanging  in  fragments.  Cuticle  of  the  pileus 
continuous,  not  separable,  smooth,  in  places  superficially  downy,  moist 
or  slightly  viscid  in  rainy  weather.  Spores  not  yellowish.  Cespitose, 
growing  on  wood. 

SAPINEI  (sapinus,  pine).     Page  291. 

Veil  silky,  very  slight,  adpressed  to  the  stem  or  forming  a  silky  ring 
on  it.  Cuticle  of  pileus  thin,  the  flesh  splitting  at  the  surface  into 
scales,  not  viscid.  Distinguished  by  the  gills  and  spores  being  light 
yellow  or  tawny.  Somewhat  cespitose ;  always  on  pine  or  on  the  ground 
among  pine  branches. 

SERICELLI  (sericeus,  silky). 

Cuticle  of  the  pileus  slightly  silky,  dry  or  at  the  first  viscid 
None  known  to  be  edible. 

287 


Agaricacese 

Fiammuia.  The  genus  Flammula  is  not  represented  in  our  territory  by  a  large 
number  of  species.  It  is,  nevertheless,  not  very  sharply  distinct  from 
the  allied  genera,  Pholiota,  Hebeloma  and  Naucoria.  From  Pholiota 
it  is  especially  separated  by  the  slight  development  of  the  veil  which  is 
merely  fibrillose  or  entirely  wanting.  It  never  forms  a  persistent  mem- 
branous collar  on  the  stem.  From  Hebeloma  it  may  be  distinguished 
by  the  absence  of  a  sinus  at  or  near  the  inner  extremity  of  the  gills,  by 
the  absence  of  white  particles  or  mealiness  from  the  upper  part  of  the 
stem  and  by  the  brighter  or  more  distinctly  rusty  or  ochraceous  color  of 
the  spores.  From  Naucoria  the  fleshy  or  fibrously  fleshy  stem  affords 
the  most  available  distinguishing  character.  The  genus  belongs  to  the 
Ochrosporae  or  ochraceous-spored  series,  but  the  spores  of  its  species 
vary  in  color  from  ochraceous  or  tawny-ochraceous  to  rust-color  or 
brownish-rust  color.  The  three  things  to  be  especially  kept  in  mind  in 
order  to  recognize  the  species  are  the  color  of  the  spores,  the  adnate 
or  decurrent  but  not  clearly  sinuate  gills  and  the  fleshy  or  fibrously 
fleshy  stem  without  a  membranous  ring. 

Our  species  are  mostly  of  medium  size,  none  being  very  small  and 
one  only  meriting  the  appellation  large.  They  appear  chiefly  in  late 
summer  or  in  autumn  and  grow  in  woods  or  in  wooded  regions  either 
on  the  ground  or  more  often  on  decaying  wood.  Many  are  gregarious 
or  cespitose  in  their  mode  of  growth.  Some  have  a  bitterish  or  unpleas- 
ant flavor  and  none  of  our  species  has  yet  been  classed  as  edible.  Fries 
arranged  the  species  in  five  groups,  of  which  the  names  and  more 
prominent  characters  are  here  given.  Pec&,$oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

The  few  species  which  the  writer  has  found  to  be  edible,  and  the  two 
new  species  found  by  him,  were  tested  after  the  publication  of  the  above. 
Several  of  the  species  found  are  not  mentioned  herein  for  the  reason  that 
a  sufficient  quantity  was  not  obtained  to  make  certain  their  quality  as  a 
food.  The  bitterness,  as  far  as  observed,  with  which  most  of  the  species 
are  tainted  disappears  in  cooking. 

GYMNO'TI.     Veil  absent,  pileus  dry,  etc. 

F.  alie'na  Pk.  Pileus  thin,  flexible,  broadly  convex,  umbilicate, 
dry,  bare,  slightly  striate  on  the  margin  when  old,  grayish  or  pale 
grayish-brown.  Flesh  white,  fibrous.  Gills  thin,  subdistant,  bow- 
shaped,  decurrent,  ochraceous-brown.  Stem  firm,  fibrous-striate,  solid, 

288 


Ochrosporse 

slightly  tapering  upward,  colored  like  the  pileus,  covered  at  the  base  Fiammuia. 
with  a  dense  white  tomentum.     Spores  rusty-brown,  globose,  5/x  broad. 

Pileus  3-5  cm.  broad.      Stem  5  cm.  long,  4-6  mm.  thick. 

Gregarious  on  partly  burned  anthracite  coal,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Sep- 
tember. C.  Mcllvaine. 

The  species  is  peculiar  in  its  color  and  habitat.  In  the  dried  speci- 
men the  gills  have  assumed  a  brown  color  with  no  ochraceous  tint. 
Mr.  Mcllvaine  remarks  that  it  is  an  edible  species,  dries  well,  and  is 
excellent  when  cooked.  Its  relationship  is  with  F.  anomala  Pk.,  but  it 
is  a  larger  plant  with  darker  color  and  a  different  habitat.  Peck,  Bull. 
Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  26,  F.  1899. 

It  grows  on  partly  burned  anthracite  coal,  not  buried,  as  printed  in 
the  Torrey  Bulletin.  The  mycelium  completely  involves  the  pieces  of 
coal,  holding  them  tightly  in  its  meshes.  Patches  of  it  were  strictly 
limited  to  the  size  of  the  ash-pile  containing  the  partly  burned  coal. 
Quite  fifty  were  found. 

As  stated,  it  is  edible,  and  it  is  of  remarkably  fine  substance  for  a 
Fiammuia. 

LU'BRICI.     Pileus  viscid,  etc. 

F.  edlllis  Pk. — eatable.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex,  obtuse,  glabrous, 
moist,  brown,  grayish-brown  or  yellowish-brown,  sometimes  rimose. 
Flesh  whitish.  Lamellae  rather  broad,  close,  decurrent,  bright  tan 
color,  becoming  brownish-rusty.  Stems  cespitose,  equal,  stuffed  or  hol- 
low, brown.  Spores  subelliptical,  13x5-6/4. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Grassy  ground,  along  pavements,  in  gutters  and  by  the  side  of  wooden 
frames  of  hotbeds.  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  October.  C.  Mcllvaine. 

The  collector  of  this  species  informs  me  that  the  flavor  of  the  fresh 
plant  is  slightly  bitter,  but  that  this  disappears  in  cooking  and  the  fungus 
furnishes  a  very  good  and  tender  article  of  food.  Successive  crops  con- 
tinued to  appear  for  a  month.  In  the  dried  specimens  the  stem  is 
striate.  Peck,  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  24,  No.  3. 

This  new  species  appears  annually  in  the  same  place.  I  have  not 
found  it  elsewhere.  It  is  meaty  and  excellent. 


19  289 


Agaricacese 

UDI.     Pileus  smooth,  not  viscid;   veil  fragmentary,  etc. 


(Plate  LXXVI0.) 


FLAMMULA  ALNICOLA. 
Two-thirds    natural    size. 


Fiammuia.       F.  alni cola  Fr. — aluus,  alder;   colot   to   inhabit.       Pileus  2-3  in. 

broad,  yellow,  at  length  becom- 
ing rust-color  and  sometimes 
green,  fleshy,  convex  then  flat- 
tened, obtuse,  slimy  when  moist, 
but  not  truly  viscous,  at  the  first 
superficially  fibrillose  toward  the 
margin.  Flesh  not  very  com- 
pact, of  the  same  color  as  the 
pileus.  Stem  2-3  in.  and  more 
long,  %  in.  thick,  stuffed  then 
hollow,  attenuato-rooted,  com- 
monly curved-flexuous,  fibrillose, 
at  first  yellow,  then  becoming 
rust-color.  Veil  manifest,  some- 
times fibrillose,  sometimes  woven 
into  a  spider-web  veil.  Gills 
somewhat  adnate,  broad,  plane, 
at  first  dingy-pallid  or  yellowish- 
pallid,  at  length  together  with  the  plentiful  spores  rust-colored. 

The  gills  vary  decurrent  and  rounded  according  to  situation.  Odor 
and  taste  bitter.  There  are  two  forms:  a.  Pileus  irregular,  fibrillose 
round  the  margin;  gills  at  first  dingy -pallid,  b.  Salicicola,  pileus  some- 
what convex,  smooth,  rarely  at  the  first  downy-scaly;  gills  at  first 
yellowish-pallid.  Fries. 

Spores  subelliptical,  8x5/i  K.;  8-10x5-6;*  Peck. 
New  York,   swampy  woods  about    base  of    alders,   October,  Peck, 
Rep.  35;    at  base  of  alders,   with  adnate  gills,   and  on  birch  stumps, 
with  the  gills  rounded  behind,  Rep.  39.     Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  New  Jersey, 
mixed  woods,  August  to  November,  1898,  Mcllvaine. 

Gregarious  and  in  loose  tufts,  not  plentiful.  It  is  a  pretty  plant, 
usually  of  a  bright  yellow,  sometimes  darker  at  the  center  of  cap. 
Traces  of  an  evanescent  fibrillose  ring  are  occasionally  found  or  the  fibrils 
adorn  the  margin  of  the  cap.  The  gills  next  to  the  stem  are  either 
rounded,  attached  or  slightly  decurrent. 

Raw  the  taste  is  slightly  bitter.     This  disappears  in  long  cooking. 

290 


Oclirosporae 

F.  fla'vida  Schaeff.  (Pers. ) — flamdus,  light  yellow.  Pileus  fleshy, 
thin,  broadly  convex  or  nearly  plane,  glabrous,  moist,  pale  yellow. 
Flesh  whitish  or  pale  yellow,  taste  bitter.  Lamellae  moderately  close, 
adnate,  pale  or  yellowish  becoming  rust-color.  Stem  equal,  often  more 
or  less  curved,  hollow,  fibrillose,  whitish  or  pale  yellow,  with  a  white 
mycelium  at  the  base.  Spores  8x5/x.. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  1-3  in.  long,  1-3  lines  thick. 

Decaying  wood  of  various  trees.  Commonly  in  wooded  or  moun- 
tainous districts.  Summer  and  autumn. 

Our  specimens  were  found  on  wood  of  both  coniferous  and  deciduous 
trees.  The  plants  are  sometimes  cespitose.  The  pileus  becomes  more 
highly  colored  in  drying.  The  spores  are  pale  rust-colored  approach- 
ing ochraceous.  In  Sylloge  the  spores  of  this  species  are  described  as 
pale  yellowish.  Peck,  5oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  broadly  elliptical,  6-8x5ft  Massee. 

New  York,  decaying  wood,  Peck,  Rep.  32,  50;  Mrs.  E.  C.  Anthony, 
August.  West  Virginia,  1881-1885;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  August  to  Oc- 
tober. Mcllvaine. 

F.  flavida  is  a  frequent  species,  gregarious  and  tufted  on  decaying 
vood,  either  standing,  fallen,  or  as  roots  in  the  ground.  The  texture 
and  substance  are  good.  The  slight  bitter  when  raw  disappears  in 
cooking.  The  caps,  only,  are  tender. 

SAPIN'EI.     Gills  and  spores  yellowish,  etc. 

F.  hy'brida  Fr. — hybrida,  a  hybrid.     Pileus  about  2  in.  broad,   at 

first  tawny-cinnamon,  then  tawny-orange,  fleshy,  hemispherical  with  the 
margin  involute,  then  expanded,  obtuse,  regular  and  well  formed,  even, 
smooth,  moist.  Flesh  moderately  compact,  pallid.  Stem  2-3  in.  long, 
4-5  lines  thick,  at  first  stuffed  with  a  soft  pith,  then  hollow,  attemiated 
(almost  conico-attenuated)  upward,  whitish  with  adpressed  silky-hairy 
down  (becoming  tawny  when  the  down  is  rubbed  off)  slightly  striate, 
with  white  hairs  at  the  base,  and  somewhat  mealy  at  the  apex.  Veil 
manifest  in  the  form  of  an  annular  zone  at  the  apex  of  the  stem,  white 
or  at  length  colored  with  the  spores.  Gills  adnate,  somewhat  crowded, 
light  yellow  then  tawny,  not  spotted.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  tawny-ochraceous,  7— 8x4-5 /u,  Massee;  6x4/1,   W.  P. 

291 


Agaricaceee 

Fiammnla.       Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  August,  September,  1898.     On  ground  under  pine 
trees.      Gregarious.      W.  H .  Rarer.     Not  elsewhere  reported. 

This  is  a  handsome  plant,  quite  prolific  in  the  large  pine  groves  at 
Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  The  caps  are  of  good  flavor. 

F.  mag'na  Pk. — magmis,  large.  Pileus  fleshy,  broadly  convex, 
soft,  dry,  fibrillose  and  somewhat  streaked,  pale  yellow  or  buff,  the  mar- 
gin commonly  becoming  revolute  with  age.  Flesh  whitish  or  yellowish. 
Gills  close,  adnate  or  slightly  decurrent,  often  crisped  or  wavy  toward 
the  stem,  about  three  lines  wide,  ochraceous.  Stem  equal  or  thickened 
toward  the  base,  fleshy-fibrous,  solid,  elastic,  fibrillose,  colored  like  the 
pileus,  brighter  yellow  within.  Spores  subelliptical,  ochraceous,  iox6/x. 

Cespitose.  Pileus  4-6  in.  broad.  Stem  3-4  in.  long,  8-12  lines 
thick. 

About  the  base  of  trees.     Westchester  county.     October. 

This  is  a  large  and  showy  species.  The  stems  are  sometimes  united 
at  the  base  into  a  solid  mass.  The  young  gills  are  probably  yellow, 
but  I  have  seen  only  mature  specimens.  Peck,  5Oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State 
Bot. 

New  Jersey,  Trenton,  ground  in  clearing,  in  pairs  and  singly.  No- 
vember, E.  B.  Sterling;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Mixed  thin  woods.  October 
to  November.  Near  trees.  Cespitose,  Mcllvaine. 

Individuals  of  all  ages  were  found  and  eaten.  The  young  gills  are 
very  light  yellow,  darkening  to  a  deep,  rich  yellow. 

The  caps  are  of  good  substance  and  flavor.  When  very  young  the 
stems  are  edible. 


292 


Ochrosporse 


TUBA'KIA  W.G.S. 
Ttiba,  a  trumpet. 


(Plate  LXXVII.) 


Stem  somewhat  cartilaginous, 
fistulose.  PileilS  somewhat  mem- 
branaceous,  often  clothed  with  the 
universal  floccose  veil.  Gills  some- 
what decurrent.  Spores  rust-color 
or  (in  Phaeoti)  brownish-rust  color. 

The  species  referred  to  this  sub- 
genus  were  taken  from  Naucoria 
and  Galera  because  they  corre- 
spond with  Omphalia  and  Eccilia. 
The  pileus  is,  however,  distinctly 
umbilicate  or  depressed  in  only  a 
few  of  them ;  the  others  are  placed 
here  on  account  of  their  somewhat 
decurrent  gills,  which  are  broadest  behind  and  triangular. 

Small  and  unimportant. 


Tnbaria. 


TUBARIA  FURFURACEA. 

Natural  size. 


Fries. 


293 


Agaricaceee 


NAUCO'RIA  Fr. 

Naztcum,  a  nut-shell. 


(Plate  LXXVIII.) 


Nancona.       Pileus  more  or  less  fleshy,  conical  or  convex,  then  expanded,  margin 

at  first  incurved.  Gills  free  or  ad- 
nate,  not  decurrent.  Veil  fugaci- 
ous or  absent,  sometimes  attached 
in  minute  flakes  to  the  edge  of  the 
young  pileus.  Stem  cartilaginous, 
hollow  or  with  a  spongy  stuffing. 
Growing  on  wood  or  on  the  ground, 
sometimes  rooted.  Spores  various 
shades  of  brown,  dull  or  bright. 

Naucoria  corresponds  with  Colly- 
bia,  Leptonia  and  Psilocybe;  from 
the  latter  it  is  distinguished  by  the 
spore  colors  and  from  Galera  in  the 
brown-spored  series  by  the  margin 
of  the  pileus  being  at- first  incurved. 
"The  spores  are  rust-color,  or 
brownish  rust-color.  The  color  of 
the  pileus  is  some  shade  of  yellow. 
The  stem  is  not  distinctly  ringed, 
but  sometimes  a  slight  spore-stained 
band  marks  the  place  of  the  obsolete 
ring."  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

The  members  of  this  genus  are  with  two  or  three  exceptions  very 
common,  and  common  over  the  land.  The  greater  number  grow  on 
the  ground  among  grass;  a  few  grow  upon  decaying  wood.  The  stems 
are  not  of  the  same  texture  as  the  cap  and  frequently  will  not  cook 
tender.  The  caps,  however,  are,  of  all  species  tested,  tender  and  of 
good  flavor.  Species  of  the  genus  are  among  the  first  to  appear  in  spring, 
and  well  reward  the  enterprising  mycophagist  for  his  early  tramps. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

GYMNOTI  (Gr. — naked).     Page  295. 

Pileus  smooth.  Veil  absent.  Spores  rust-color,  not  becoming  dusky- 
rust-color. 

294 


'iV.^.Vr'     'f 


NAUCORIA  SEMI-ORBICULARIS. 
Natural  size. 


Ochrosporse 

PH/EOTI  (Gr. — dusky).     Page  296. 

Pileus  smooth.     Gills  and  spores  dusky  rust-color.    Veil  rarely  mani-  Naucoria. 
fest. 

LEPIDOTI  (lepis,  a  scale). 

Pileus  flocculose  or  squamulose.     Veil  manifest. 
None  known  to  be  edible. 

I. — GYMNO'TI. 

N.  hama'dryas  Fr. — Gr.,  a  nymph  attached  to  her  tree.  Pileus 
1^-2  in.  broad,  bay-brown-ferruginous  when  young  and  moist,  pale 
yellowish  when  old  and  becoming  pale,  slightly  fleshy,  convex  then  ex- 
panded, gibbous,  even,  smooth.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  3  lines  thick, 
soiueivhat  fragile,  hollow,  equal,  naked,  smooth,  pallid.  Gills  attenu- 
ato-adnexed,  somewhat  free,  slightly  ventricose,  almost  2  lines  broad, 
crowded,  rust-color,  opaque.  Veil  none.  Widely  removed  from  neigh- 
boring species.  Pileus  somewhat  separate  as  in  Plutei.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  rust-color,  13-14x7^  Massee. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.  Frequent.  Solitary.  On  ground  along  pave- 
ments, under  trees,  in  woods.  Spring  to  autumn.  Mcllvaine. 

Massee  gives  it  as  hygrophanous.  I  have  not  found  it  so.  It  is 
moist  after  rain  and  dew. 

The  caps  and  upper  part  of  the  stem  are  tender,  easily  cooked  and  of 
good  flavor. 

N.  cero'des  Fr.  Gr. — wax.  Pileus  K-i  in.  broad,  watery  cinna- 
mon when  moist,  tan-color  when  dry,  somewhat  membranaceous,  con- 
vex bell-shape  and  flattened,  at  length  depressed,  obtuse,  when  moist 
smooth,  pellucid-striate  at  the  circumference,  when  dry  even,  slightly 
silky-atomate .  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  1-2  lines  thick,  slightly  firm,  tubed, 
equal,  somewhat  flexuous,  fibrilloso-striate  under  a  lens,  becoming  dingy 
bqy-brown  sometimes  for  the  most  part,  sometimes  only  at  the  base, 
pallid  upward,  mealy  at  the  apex.  Gills  adnate,  separating,  very  broad 
behind,  hence  almost  triangular,  somewhat  distant,  broad,  plane,  soft, 
distinct,  pallid  then  cinnamon  very  finely  fimbriated  at  the  edge  under 
a  lens.  Fries. 

The  typical  form,  growing  among  damp  mosses,  is  quite  early,  gre- 
garious, with  the  colors  almost  those  of  Galera  hypnorum,  but  other- 

295 


Agaricaceee 


(Plate  LXXVIIIa.) 


Naucoria.  wise  very  different,     b.  Another  form  occurs  on  naked,  commonly  burnt 
soil,  in  late  autumn,  with  almost  the  habit  of  N.  pediades,  but  with  a 
different  color  of  gills  and  spores;   this  form  is  firmer.    Stem  I  in.  long, 
tense  and  straight,  and  color  more  ochraceous.     Stevenson. 
Spores  9t*  B.  and  Br.;  smooth,  6x3^  Massee. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  in  grass  and  moss,  along 
damp  wood  margins.  August  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

N.  cerodes  is  not  plentiful  where  I  have  found  it.  Enough  has  been 
collected  at  a  time  to  prove  it  esculent.  It  is  tender,  but  has  not  much 
flavor. 

N.  Stri'apes  Cke. — stria,  a  line; 
pes,  a  foot.  Pileus  i-i/£  in.  broad, 
ochraceous,  bell-shaped,  obtuse,  then 
expanded,  smooth,  even.  Stem  2-3 
in.  long,  2  lines  thick,  hollow,  equal, 
erect  or  flexuous,  white,  longitudin- 
ally striate.  Gills  slightly  adnate  be- 
hind, rather  distant,  tawny  rust-color. 
Cespitose  or  gregarious.  Among 
grass  on  lawn.  Stevenson. 

Spores  narrowly  elliptical,  10-12 
X4j«.  Massee. 

New  Jersey,  Trenton.  Growing 
among  leaves  near  dump.  May  to 
November.  E.  B.  Sterling. 

The  few  specimens  tested  were  deli- 
cate and  of  slight  flavor. 


NAUCORIA  STRIAPES. 


II. — PH^E'OTI. 

N.  pedi'ades  Fr. — Gr.}  a  plain.  Pileus  1-2  in.  broad,  yellow  or 
pale  yellowish-ochraceous  then  becoming  pale,  slightly  fleshy,  convex 
then  plane,  obtuse,  even,  dry,  smooth,  at  length  crookedly  cracked,  but 
always  without  strise.  Flesh  white.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  1-2  lines 
thick,  stuffed  with  a  pith,  somewhat  flexttous,  tough,  equal,  but  with  a 
small  bulb  at  the  base,  slightly  silky  becoming  even,  yellowish.  Gills 
adnexed,  2  lines  broad,  at  first  crowded,  at  length  somewhat  distant, 
somewhat  dingy-brown,  then  dingy  cinnamon. 

296 


Ochrosporse 

Spores  brovvnish-rust-color.    The  small  bulb  at  the  base  is  formed  by  Naucoria. 
the  mycelium  being  rolled  together.      Stature  variable.     Fries. 

Spores  dingy  rust-color,  elliptical,  10-12x4-5^  Massee. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  in  grassy  places,  pastures 
and  along  pavements.  Common.  May  to  November.  Mcllvaine. 

In  1897  Fairmount  Park,  Philadelphia,  abounded  with  N.  pediades, 
which  were  collected  and  eaten  by  many.  The  caps  are  tender  and  of 
a  mushroom  flavor. 

N.  semi-orbicilla'ris  Bull. — semi,  half;  orbicularis,  round.  (Plate 
LXXVIII,  p.  294.)  PileilS  1-2  in.  broad,  tawny  rust-color  then  ochra- 
ceous,  slightly  fleshy,  convexo-expanded,  obtuse,  dry,  even,  smooth, 
corrugated  when  dry.  Stem  3-4  in.  long,  scarcely  beyond  I  line  thick, 
cartilaginous,  tough,  slender,  tense  and  straight,  equal,  even,  smooth, 
becoming  pallid  rust-color,  shining,  often  darker  at  the  base,  internally 
containing  a  separate  narrow  tube  which  is  easily  broken  up  into  fibrils. 
Gills  adnate,  rarely  sinuate  behind,  almost  3  lines  broad,  and  many 
times  broader  than  the  flesh  of  the  pileus,  crowded,  pallid  then  rust- 
color. 

The  pileus  is  slightly  viscid  when  fresh  and  moist.  Easily  distin- 
guished from  S.  semi-globatus,  with  which  it  has  been  confounded,  by 
the  stem.  Stevenson. 

Spores  14x8/4  W.G.S.;  10x5-6/1.  Massee. 

Allied  to  N.  pediades,  distinguished  by  its  viscid  cap  when  moist, 
and  dark  stem. 

Common  over  the  states.     Washington,  D.  C.,  Mrs.  Mary  Fuller. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  North  Carolina,  New  Jersey.  Solitary, 
sometimes  cespitose,  very  common  on  lawns,  rich  pastures,  etc.  April 
until  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

This  is  one  of  our  first  appearing  toadstools,  coming  up  when  the 
grass  shows  its  full  spring  hue.  It  is  found  after  rains  until  the  coming 
of  frost.  Its  hemispherical  caps,  precise,  neat,  dark  gills  and  brown 
spores  readily  distinguish  it.  While  usually  small,  patience  and  pick-- 
ing will  soon  gather  quarts.  The  caps  cook  easily  and  are  of  excellent 
flavor. 

N.  platysper'ma  Pk. — platys,  broad;  spenna,  seed.  Pileus  convex, 
becoming  nearly  plane,  glabrous,  slightly  tinged  with  ochraceous  or  red- 
dish-yellow when  young,  soon  whitish,  the  margin  at  first  adorned  with 

297 


Agaricacese 

Naucoria.  vestiges  of  a  white  flocculent  veil.  Flesh  white.  Lamellae  moderately 
close,  slightly  rounded  behind,  pallid,  becoming  brownish.  Stem 
equal,  stuffed  with  a  white  pith,  slightly  flocculent  or  furfuraceous  above 
when  young,  whitish,  the  mycelium  sometimes  forming  white  thread- 
like strands.  Spores  broadly  elliptical,  15/u,  long,  1 2. 5 /u.  broad. 

Pileus  i-i-S  in.  broad.      Stem  3-5-5  in.  long,  1.5-2  in.  thick. 

On  the  ground.      Compton,  Cal.     Prof.  A.  7.  McClatchie. 

'This  species  differs  from  N.  pediades  and  N.  semi-orbicularis,  to  which 
it  is  related,  by  its  larger,  broader  spores  and  paler  color.  Peck,  Bull. 
Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  25,  No.  6. 

This  new  species  reported  from  California  is  so  closely  allied  to  N. 
semi-orbicularis  and  N.  pediades,  both  of  which  are  edible,  that  it  is 
here  given,  that  it  may  be  recognized  by  students  on  the  Pacific  coast 
or  wherever  it  occurs. 


298 


Ochrosporse 

GALE'KA  Fr. 

Galerus,  a  cap. 

PileilS  more  or  less  membranaceous,  conical  or  oval,  then  expanded,  Gaiera. 
striate,  margin  at  the  first  straight,  then  adpressed  to  the  stem.     Gills 
not    decurrent.      Stem    somewhat  cartilaginous,    continuous    with    the 
pileus,  but  differing  in  texture,  tubular.    Veil  none  or  fibrillose.    Spores 
tawny-ochraceous. 

Slender,  fragile,  generally  growing  on  the  ground. 

Gaiera  corresponds  with  Mycena,  Nolanea,  Psathyra  and  Psathyrella, 
which  are  distinguished  by  their  spore  colors.  In  the  brown-spored 
series  Naucoria  is  separated  by  the  margin  of  the  pileus  being  at  first 
incurved,  and  Tubaria  by  the  decurrent  gills. 

The  genus  is  composed  of  small  species,  but  many  grow  in  clusters, 
and  are  of  a  consistency  which  decreases  but  little  in  quick  cooking. 
Those  tested  are  delicate  in  texture  and  flavor. 

G.  lateri'tia  Fr. — later,  a  brick.  Pileus  i  in.  high,  pale  yellowish 
when  moist,  ochraceous  when  dry,  hygrophanous,  membranaceous, 
acorn-sJtaped  then  bell-shaped,  obtuse,  even,  smooth,  slightly  and  densely 
striate  at  the  margin  when  moist.  Stem  3  in.  and  more  long,  i  line 
thick,  tubular,  attenuated  upward,  tense  and  straight,  even,  but  white- 
pruincse,  whitish.  Gills  adnexed  in  the  top  of  the  cone,  hence  appear- 
ing as  if  free,  ascending,  very  narrow,  crowded,  cinnamon. 

Gills  almost  adpressed  to  the  stem,  almost  pendulous.  Remarkably 
analogous  with  A.  ovalis,  but  easily  distinguished  by  the  linear  gills 
and  the  absence  of  a  veil ;  very  fragile.  Fries. 

Spores  1 1x5/1  W.P.;   i  I-I2X5-6/A  Masses. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina,  Pennsylvania.  On  dung 
and  rich  pastures.  June  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

The  narrow  conical  cap,  distinctly  striate,  distinguishes  this  species 
from  G.  tenera.  In  quality  there  is  no  difference.  It  is  a  well-flavored, 
delicate  species. 


299 


Agaricaceae 


(Plate  LXXIX.) 


GALERA  TENERA. 
Two-thirds  natural  size. 


Gaiera.       G.  te'nera  Schaeff. — tener,   tender.      Pileus   %  in.   and  more   high, 

of  one  color,  pallid  rust-color  when 
damp,  becoming  pale  when  dry,  hy- 
grophanous,  somewhat  membranace- 
ous,  conico-bell-shaped,  commonly 
smooth,  slightly  striate  when  moist, 
wholly  even  when  dry,  opaque,  some- 
what atomate.  Stem  commonly  3-4 
in.  long,  i  line  thick,  tubular,  fragile, 
equal  or  when  larger  thickened  down- 
ward, tense  and  straight,  somewhat 
shining,  striate  upward,  of  the  same 
color  as  the  pileus  when  moist,  and 
like  it  becoming  pale  when  dry.  Gills 
adnate  in  the  top  of  the  cone,  appear- 
ing as  if  free,  ascending,  somewhat 
crowded,  linear,  cinnamon. 

Pastures    and    grassy    places    in 
woods.      Common.      May  to  November.      Stevenson. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  14-21x8-12/1  K.;  14-8/1  W.G.S.;  14x7/1  W.P.; 
12-13x7/1  Massee;  elliptical,  dark  rust-color,  almost  rubiginous,  13- 
16.5x8-10/1  Peck. 

Var.  pilosella  (Agaricus  pilosellus  Pers.),  has  both  pileus  and  stem 
clothed  with  a  minute  erect  pubescence  when  moist.  A  form  is  some- 
times found  in  which  the  center  of  the  pileus  is  brown  or  blackish-brown. 
Peck,  46th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Var.  obscu'rior  Pk.  A  notable  form  of  this  species  was  found  grow- 
ing in  an  old  stable  of  an  abandoned  lumber  camp.  The  plants  were 
large,  the  pileus  in  some  being  more  than  an  inch  broad,  the  stems 
were  3-6  in.  long  and  the  color  was  rust-colored  as  in  G.  ovalis,  to 
which  the  plants  might  be  referred  but  for  the  large  spores.  Essex 
county.  July.  I  have  labeled  the  specimens  variety  obscurior.  Peck, 
5oth  Rep. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.  ;  Chester  county;  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.  ;  West 
Virginia.  In  rich  pastures,  on  lawns,  dung  in  woods.  Common.  June 
to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Very  variable  in  size  and  in  color  when  wet  and  dry.  The  color  of 
gills  and  spores  readily  distinguishes  it  in  its  habitats.  From  spring  to 

300 


Ochrosporee 

frost  it  can  usually  be  gathered  in  quantity.     It  is  small,  tender,  shrivels  Gaiera. 
in  cooking,  but  makes  a  savory,  excellent  dish. 

Var.  obscurior  found  cespitose  on  very  old  manure  at  a  ruined  stable, 
Mt,  Gretna,  Pa.,  August.  Mcllvaine. 

G.  fla'va  Pk. — flavus,  yellow.  Pileus  membranous,  ovate  or  bell 
shaped,  moist  or  subhygrophanous,  obtuse,  plicate  striate  on  the  mar- 
gin, yellow.  LamelleB  thin,  narrow,  crowded,  adnate,  at  first  whitish, 
then  yellowish-cinnamon.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  hol- 
low, slightly  striate  at  the  top,  sprinkled  with  white  mealy  particles, 
white  or  yellowish.  Spores  ovate  or  subelliptical,  brownish-rust-color, 
13x8^. 

Pileus  6-12  lines  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  1-1.5  lmes  thick. 

Damp  vegetable  mold  in  woods.     Tompkins  county.     July. 

This  species  is  well  marked  by  the  pale-yellow  color  of  the  pileus  and 
its  plicate  striations  which  are  very  distinct  even  in  the  dried  specimens. 
They  extend  half  way  to  the  disk  or  more.  When  dry  the  pileus  is  seen 
to  be  sprinkled  with  shining  atoms  as  in  some  other  species  of  the  same 
genus.  Occasionally  the  yellow  cuticle  cracks  into  squamules  or  small 
scales.  Peck,  46th  Rep. 

Trenton,  N.J.,  Sterling;  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  ;  Pennsylvania.  Among 
chips  in  woods  and  on  woods  ground.  Mcllvaine. 

This  species  is  frequent,  and  when  plentiful  well  worth  gathering.  It 
has  a  more  woody  flavor  than  other  Gaiera,  but  is  tasty. 

G.  vittsefor'mis  Fr. — vitta,  a  chaplet;  forma,  form.  Pileus  ^-i  in. 
broad,  date-brown  when  moist,  membranaceous,  conical  then  hemis- 
pherical, obtuse,  even  at  tJie  disk,  striate  toward  the  margin,  smooth. 
Stem  1^-3  in.  long,  >£— i  line  thick,  tubular,  equal,  somewhat  straight, 
but  not  tense  and  straight,  smooth  or  sometimes  pubescent,  slightly 
striate  under  a  lens,  opaque,  rust-color.  Veil  scarcely  conspicuous. 
Gills  adnate,  broader  at  the  middle,  in  the  form  of  a  segment  when 
larger,  somewhat  ascending,  somewhat  distant,  at  first  watery-cinnamon, 
at  length  rust-color.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  i2x6/A  Massee. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.  ;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  On  pastures,  lawns,  etc.  June 
to  September.  Mcllvaine. 

Not  previously  reported. 

301 


Agaricacese 

Gaiera.       Though  small  it  makes  up  in  quantity  when  found.     The  stems  are 
not  as  tender  as  the  caps.     Quality  good. 


BOLBI'TIUS  Fr. 

Gr. — cow's  dung. 

Boibitius.  Pileus  membranaceous.  Gills  adnexed  or  free,  membranaceous,  soft, 
salmon-color  or  rusty,  dissolving  (not  dripping  as  in  Coprinus),  pow- 
dered with  the  rusty  spores.  Stem  central;  universal  veil  absent, 
partial  veil  often  obsolete. 

Very  delicate  and  fragile,  remarkable  among  the  Ochrosporae  for  the 
gills  dissolving  into  mucus,  and  in  this  respect  analogous  with  Coprinus 
among  the  Melanosporae,  and  Hiatula  amongst  the  Leucosporae.  Grow- 
ing on  dung  or  amongst  grass  where  dung  abounds. 

A  small  but  very  natural  genus,  with  the  vegetative  portion  like 
Coprinus  and  the  fructification  resembling  Cortinarius,  hence  occupying 
an  intermediate  position  between  these  two  genera.  Fries. 

B.  Bol'toni  Fr. — after  Bolton.  Pileus  rather  fleshy,  viscid,  at  first 
even,  then  with  the  membranaceous  margin  sulcate,  disk  darker,  subde- 
pressed.  Stem  attenuated,  yellowish,  at  first  floccose  from  the  remains 
of  the  fugacious  veil.  Gills  subadnate,  yellow  then  livid-brown.  Fries. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  cespitose  among  manure  on  sawdust. 

Of  small  substance  but  good  consistency  and  flavor. 

302 


Ochrosporae 


B.  fra'gilis  Fr.    Pileus  2  in. 

(Plate  LXXX.) 


broad,  light-yellow,  then  becoming  Boibitius. 
pale,  somewhat  membranaceous, 
almost  pellucid,  conical  then  ex- 
panded, somewhat  umbonate, 
smooth,  viscous,  striate  round  the 
margin  (which  is  often  crenulated). 
Stem  3  in.  long,  I  line  or  little 
more  thick,  fistulose,  attenuated  up- 
ward, naked,  smooth  (and  without 
a  manifest  veil),  yellow.  Gills  at- 
tenuato-adnexed,  almost  free,  ven- 
tricose,  yellow  then  pale  cinnamon. 
Spores  rust-colored.  Fries. 


BOLBITIUS  FRAGILIS. 
Two-thirds  natural  size. 

Thinner  than  B.  Boltoni,  etc.,  very 

fragile,  rapidly  withering. 

On  dung.  Common.  June  to  Oc- 
tober. Stevenson. 

Spores  subspheroid-ellipsoid,  ellip- 
tical, /X3-5/A  Massee. 

West  Virginia;  Pennsylvania.  June 
to  frost.  On  rich  grass  and  dung. 

Pileus  usually  not  over  1.5  in. 
across.  Often  in  plenty.  Its  substance 
does  not  cook  away  as  with  C.  mica- 
ceus.  It  amply  repays  gathering, 
being  highly  flavored. 

B.  no'bilis  Pk. — noble.  Pileus 
thin,  fleshy  on  the  disk,  ovate  then 
bell-shaped,  smooth,  plicate-striate, 
pale-yellow,  the  disk  tinged  with  red, 
the  margin  at  length  recurved  and 
splitting.  Gills  subdistant,  tapering 
outwardly,  attached,  the  alternate  ones 

303 


(Plate  LXXXa.) 


BOLBITIUS  NOBILIS. 
About  two-thirds  natural  size. 


Agaricacese 

Boibitius.  more  narrow,  pale-yellow  with  a  darker  edge.  Stem  long,  equal,  smooth, 
striate  at  the  top,  hollow,  white. 

Plant  cespitose,  3-5  in.  high.  Pileus  I  in.  broad.  Stem  I  line  thick. 
Ground  in  woods.  Greig.  September. 

A  fine  large  species,  but  probably  rare.  Peck,  24th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Dot. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species.     Figure  after  Professor  Peck. 


CREPIDO'TUS  Fr. 

Gr. — a  slipper. 

Crepidotus.       Veil  wanting  or  not  manifest.    Pileus  eccentric,  lateral  or  resupinate. 


(Plate  LXXXI.) 


Spores  rust-color. 

The  Crepidoti  correspond  in  shape 
and  habit  to  the  smaller  Pleuroti  and 
the  Claudopodes,  but  they  are  dis- 
tinguished from  both  by  the  rust-color 
of  their  spores.  These  are  globose 
in  several  species,  in  others  they  are 
elliptical.  In  some  there  is  a  depres- 
sion on  one  side  which  gives  them  a 
naviculoid  character  and  causes  the 
spore  to  appear  slightly  curved  when 
viewed  in  a  certain  position.  In  con- 
sequence of  the  similarity  of  several 
of  our  species,  the  character  of  the  spores  is  of  much  importance  in 
their  identification,  and  it  is  unfortunate  that  European  mycologists 
have  so  generally  neglected  to  give  the  spore  characters  in  their 
descriptions  of  these  fungi.  In  most  of  the  species  the  pileus  is  at  first 
resupinate,  but  it  generally  becomes  reflexed  as  it  enlarges.  It  is  gen- 
erally sessile  or  attached  by  a  mass  of  white  fibrils  or  tomentum.  For 
this  reason  it  is  usually  somewhat  tomentose  or  villose  about  the  point 
of  attachment,  even  in  species  that  are  otherwise  glabrous.  In  several 
species  the  pileus  is  moist  or  hygrophanous  and  then  the  thin  margin  is 
commonly  striatulate.  This  character  is  attributed  to  but  one  of  the 

304 


CREPIDOTUS  MOLLIS. 
Natural  size. 


Ochrosporae 

dozen  or  more  European  species.     Their  mode  of  growth  is  usually  Crepidotus. 

gregarious  or  somewhat  loosely  imbricated,  in  consequence  of  which 

the  pileus,  which  in  most  species  is  white  or  yellowish,  is  often  stained 

by  the  spores,  and  then   it  has  a  rusty,  stained  or  squalid  appearance. 

The  species  occur  especially  on  old  stumps,  prostrate  trunks  and  soft 

much  decayed  wood  in  damp,  shaded  places.     Peck,  39th  Rep.  N.  Y. 

State  Bot. 

C.    ful'vo-tomento'sus     Pk. — tawny-tomentose.      Pileus    %-2     in. 

broad,  scattered  or  gregarious,  suborbicular,  kidney-shaped  or  dimidi- 
ate, sessile  or  attached  by  a  short,  white-villose  tubercle  or  rudimentary 
stem,  hygrophanous,  watery-brown  and  sometimes  striatulate  on  the 
margin  when  moist,  whitish,  yellowish  or  pale  ochraceous  when  dry, 
adorned  with  small,  tawny,  hairy  or  tomentose  scales.  Lamellae  broad, 
subventricose,  moderately  close,  rounded  behind,  radiating  from  a  lateral 
or  eccentric  white  villose  spot,  whitish  becoming  brownish-ferruginous. 
Spores  elliptical  often  uninucleate,  8-10x5-6/4. 

Decaying  wood  of  poplar,  maple,  etc.      Common.     June  to  October. 

A  pretty  species,  corresponding  in  some  respects  to  the  European  C. 
calolepis,  but  much  larger  and  with  tawny,  instead  of  reddish  scales. 
The  cuticle  is  separable  and  is  tenacious,  though  it  has  a  hyaline  gelatin- 
ous appearance.  The  pileus  is  subpersistent,  and  specimens  dried  in 
their  place  of  growth  are  not  rare.  Peck,  39th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J. ;  Angora,  West  Philadelphia.  On  decaying 
hickory.  Mcllvaine. 

Substance  fair.     Taste  strong  but  pleasant. 


20  305 


Agaricaceee 

CORTINA'RIUS  Fr. 

Cortina,  a  veil  or  curtain. 

Cortinarius.  Veil  resembling  the  consistency  of  a  cob-web,  superficial,  distinct 
from  the  cuticle  of  the  pileus.  Flesh  of  pileus  and  stem  continuous. 
Gills  persistent,  dry,  changing  color,  powdered  with  the  spores.  Trama 
fibrillose.  Spores  globose  or  oblong,  somewhat  ochraceous  on  white 
paper.  Fries. 

This  genus  is  not  easily  confounded  with  any  other,  the  cob-webby 
veil  stretched  from  stem  to  pileus  in  the  young  plant  not  being  found  in 
other  fungi.  This  must  be  looked  for  only  in  youth,  as  from  its  tender 
character  it  soon  breaks  and  often  appears  only  as  a  very  indistinct 
collar  on  the  stem,  colored  from  catching  the  falling  spores.  The  colors 
are  generally  pronounced  and  often  extremely  bright,  there  being  very 
few  prettier  toadstools  than  those  inclined  to  the  blue  or  purple  shades, 
which  are  not  uncommon  in  the  immature  form.  The  color  of  the 
spores  is  also  a  marked  feature,  being  rusty  or  brownish-ochraceous, 
turning  the  gills  to  the  same  color  at  maturity.  On  account  of  this 
change  it  is  generally  necessary  to  have  specimens  at  both  stages  of 
growth  to  accurately  determine  the  species.  The  gills  are  thin,  attached 
to  the  stem  in  various  manners,  rarely  slightly  decurrent. 

Cortinarius  is  distinguished  from  Flammula  by  growing  on  the  ground 
and  by  the  bright  ferruginous  color  of  its  spores. 

Cortinarius  is  a  sturdy,  hardy  genus  preferring  northern  latitudes  and 
autumnal  months,  though  several  of  its  species  grow  as  far  south  as  Ala- 
bama, and  one,  a  new  species  described  by  Professor  Peck,  is  found  on 
the  Helderberg  mountains  in  May.  The  genus  contains  many  species, 
most  of  which  produce  in  great  numbers,  yet  being  woods-growing,  and 
coming  as  they  do  when  leaves  are  falling,  they  are  often  missed  because 
of  their  similarity  to  their  surroundings. 

Heretofore,  less  than  a  dozen  species  have  been  reported  as  eaten. 
This  number  is  now  doubled.  While  several  species  are  bitter  and  oth- 
ers equally  unpleasant,  not  one  has  been  accused  of  harm.  It  is  highly 
probable  that  other  varieties  than  those  herein  given  will  prove  equally 
acceptable  as  food.  I  have  tested  all  I  have  found  in  sufficient  quantity 
to  warrant  passing  judgment  upon  them. 

The  genus  does  not  contain  as  many  species  of  superior  excellence  as 
other  fleshy  genera  of  like  numbers.  The  flesh  is  frequently  dry  and  of 


Ochrosporae 

a  strong  woody  or  musky  flavor,  which  it  does  not  lose  in  cooking.  The  Cortinarfus. 
stems  are  seldom  cookable.     All  can  be  fried  in  butter,  but  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  well  stewed,  or  stewed  and  served  in  patties,  or  made  into 
croquettes  are  certain  ways  of  keeping  them  in  palate  memory. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

PHLEGMACIUM  (Gr. — shiny  or  clammy  moisture).     Page  308. 
Pileus  viscid.     Stem  firm,  dry.     Veil  partial,  cobweb-like. 

A.     CLIDUCHU  (Gr. — holding  the  keys — the  typical  subdivision).     Page  308. 

Partial  veil  as  a  ring  on  the  upper  part  of  the  stem  which  is  equal  or 
slightly  expanded  above.  Not  distinctly  bulbous. 

*  Gills  pallid  then  clay-colored. 

**  Gills  purplish  then  clay-colored. 

B.    SCAURI  (Gr. — club-footed).    Page  310. 

Bulbous.  Bulb  depressed  or  top-shaped,  with  a  distinct  margin 
caused  by  the  pressure  of  the  pileus  before  expansion.  Veil  generally 
ascending  from  the  margin  of  the  bulb.  Gills  somewhat  sinuate. 

*  Gills  whitish  then  cinnamon. 

*  Gills  blue  then  cinnamon. 

*  Gills  brownish-white  then  cinnamon. 

MYXACIUM  (Gr. — mucus).    Page  3 13. 

Universal  veil  glutinous.  Pileus  and  stem  viscid.  Stem  slightly 
bulbous.  Gills  adnate. 

INOLOMA  (Gr. — a  fibrous  fringe).     Page  314. 

Pileus  dry,  not  hygrophanous  or  viscid,  covered  at  first  with  innate 
silky  scales  or  fibrils,  becoming  smooth.  Veil  simple.  Pileus  and  stem 
fleshy,  rather  bulbous. 

*  Gills  violaceous,  then  cinnamon. 

*  Gills  pinkish-brown,  then  cinnamon. 

*  Gills  yellow,  then  cinnamon. 

307 


Agaricaceae 

DERMOCYBE.     Page  320. 

Cortinarius.  Pileus  thin,  equally  fleshy,  at  first  silky  with  a  fine  down,  becoming 
smooth  when  adult.  Not  hygrophanous,  but  flesh  watery  when  moist 
or  colored.  Stem  equal  or  larger  above,  externally  rigid,  elastic  or 
brittle,  internally  stuffed  or  hollow.  Veil  single,  thread-like. 

TELAMONIA.    Page  323. 

Pileus  moist,  hygrophanous,  at  first  smooth  or  sprinkled  with  the 
whitish  superficial  evanescent  fibrils  of  the  veil.  Flesh  thin,  or  when 
thick  it  becomes  abruptly  thin  toward  the  margin,  scissile.  Stem  ringed 
below  or  coated  from  the  universal  veil,  slightly  veiled  at  the  apex, 
hence  with  almost  a  double  veil. 

HYGROCYBE.     Page  325. 

Pileus  hygrophanous,  smooth  or  covered  with  superficial  white  fibrils, 
not  viscid,  moist  when  fresh,  becoming  discolored  when  dry.  Flesh 
very  thin  or  scissile,  rarely  more  compact  at  the  center.  S£em  rather 
rigid,  bare.  Veil  thin,  rarely  collapsing  and  forming  an  irregular  ring 
on  the  stem. 

PHLEGMA'CIUM.     (Gr. — clammy  moisture.) 

A.     CLIDUCHII. 
*  Gills  pallid,  then  clay-colored. 

C.  seba'ceus  Fr. — sebum,  tallow.  PileilS  2^-5  in.  broad,  unicolor- 
ous,  pale,  of  the  color  of  tallow,  equally  fleshy,  convex  then  rather 
plane,  commonly  very  repand,  viscid,  smooth,  but  at  the  first  covered 
over  with  a  whitish  pruinose  luster.  Flesh  white.  Stem  3-4  in.  long, 
/&  — I  in.  thick,  solid,  stout,  compact,  never  bulbous,  often  twisted  and 
compressed,  slightly  fibrillose,  pale  white.  Cortina  delicate,  fugacious, 
adhering  only  to  the  margin  of  the  pileus.  Gills  emarginate,  not 
crowded,  connected  by  veins,  4  lines  broad,  clay-color  or  pallid-cinna- 
mon, paler  at  the  sides.  Fries. 

The  flesh  of  the  pileus  is  not  compact  at  the  disk  and  abruptly  thin 
at  the  circumference,  but  equally  attenuated  toward  the  margin.  The 
flesh  of  the  stem  is  white.  The  gills  never  turn  bluish-gray.  Taste 
mild.  Stevenson. 

308 


Oclirosporee 
pip-shaped,   9X7/A   Cooke.  Cortinarius. 

A  very  common  and  prolific  species  in  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey, 
Pennsylvania,  North  Carolina.  Mcllvaine. 

Pushing  from  the  earth  in  great  clusters  it  raises  the  mat  of  leaves 
above  it  into  hut-like  mounds  through  which  it  seldom  bursts.  Yet  side 
openings  to  its  huts  show  its  coziness,  and  reveal  the  ground  thickly 
dusted  with  its  spores.  Detecting  these  mounds  is  part  of  the  wood- 
craft of  a  toad-stool  hunter. 

Where  clusters  are  not  dense,  or  the  fungus  is  solitary,  the  stem  is 
frequently  swollen  at  the  base,  even  bulbous. 

Both  caps  and  stems  are  edible,  but  the  stems  are  not  equal  to  the 
caps.  It  is  a  valuable  food  species,  because  of  its  lateness  and  quantity. 
It  is  not  of  best  quality. 

C.  tur'malis  Fr. — turma,  a  troop.  (Plate  LXXXII,  fig.  4,  p.  306.) 
PileilS  yellow-tan,  most  frequently  darker  at  the  disk,  not  changeable, 
compact,  convex  then  plane,  very  obtuse,  even,  smooth  (sometimes 
obsoletely  piloso-virgate),  when  young  veiled  with  pruinate  but  very 
fugacious  villous  down,  soon  naked,  viscid.  Flesh  white.  Stem  some- 
times 3  in.,  sometimes  6  in.  long,  i  in.  thick,  solid,  very  hard,  rigid, 
cylindrical,  here  and  there  attenuated  at  the  base,  shining  white  when 
dry,  when  young  sheatJied  with  a  white  woolly  veil,  naked  when  full 
grown.  Cortina  entirely  fibrillose,  superior  and  persistent  in  the  form 
of  a  ring,  at  length  ferruginous  with  the  spores.  Gills  variously  adnexed, 
rounded  or  emarginate,  even  decurrent  with  a  tooth,  crowded,  serrated, 
white  then  clay-color.  Fries. 

I  find  it  edible  and  of  great  value,  being  plentiful  in  pine  woods, 
Maryland.  I  have  collected  a  bushel  in  less  than  an  hour  in  October. 
Under  pine  needles  forming  mounds.  Taylor. 

The  localities  and  the  habit  of  C.  turmalis  are  very  like  that  of  C. 
sebaceus.  The  leaf  mat  broods  the  clusters. 

C.  turmalis  is  on  a  par  with  C.  sebaceus.  Personally  I  prefer  the 
latter, 

** Gills  purplish,  then  clay-colored. 

C.  va'rillS  (Schaeff. )  Fr. — -varius,  changeable.  PileilS  2  in.  and  more 
broad,  \x\%\tf.ferruginous-tawny,  compact,  hemispherico-flattened,  very 

309 


Agaricaceee 

Cortinarms.  obtuse,  regular,  slightly  viscid,  even,  smooth,  the  thin  margin  at  first 
incurved,  appendiculate  with  the  cortina.  Flesh  firm,  white.  Stem 
curt,  i%—  2%  in.  long,  i  in.  and  more  thick,  bulbous,  absolutely  im- 
marginate,  compact,  shining  white,  adpressedly  flocculose,  the  superior 
veil  pendulous.  Gills  emarginate,  thin,  somewhat  crowded,  at  first 
narrow,  violaceous-purplish)  then  broader  and  ochraceous-cinnamon, 
always  quite  entire. 

Variable  in  stature,  but  the  habit  and  colors  are  always  unchangeable. 
It  varies  with  the  stem  taller  and  somewhat  equal,  the  pileus  yellow- 
tawny,  and  the  gills  dark  blue.  Fries. 

In  woods.     Uncommon.     September  to  November.    Stevenson. 

Minnesota;    Ohio. 

Edible.      Cooke,  1891. 

B.      SCAI/RI. 

*  Gills  whitish  then  cinnamon, 

C.  intru'sus  Pk.  Pileus  fleshy,  rather  thin,  convex,  then  expanded, 
glabrous,  somewhat  viscid  when  moist,  even  or  radiately  wrinkled  on 
the  margin,  yellowish  or  buff,  sometimes  with  a  reddish  tint.  Flesh 
white.  Lamellae  thin,  close,  rounded  behind,  at  first  whitish  or  creamy- 
white,  then  cinnamon,  often  uneven  on  the  edge.  Stem  equal  or  slightly 
tapering  either  upward  or  downward,  stuffed  or  hollow,  sometimes 
beautifully  striate  at  the  top  only  or  nearly  to  the  base,  minutely  floe- 
cose  when  young,  soon  glabrous,  white.  Spores  broadly  elliptical, 
brownish-cinnamon,  6— 8x4—  5//,. 

Pileus  1-2.5  m-  broad.      Stem  1-3  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Mushroom  beds,  manured  soil  in  conservatories  or  in  plant  pots. 
Boston,  Mass.  R.  K.  Macadam.  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  C.  Mcllvaine. 

This  interesting  species  is  closely  allied  to  Cortinarius  multiformis  and 
belongs  to  the  Section  Phlegmacium.  It  has  a  slight  odor  of  radishes 
and  is  pronounced  edible  by  Mr.  Mcllvaine.  Its  habitat  is  peculiar, 
but  it  possibly  finds  its  way  into  conservatories  and  mushroom  beds 
through  the  introduction  of  manure  or  soil,  or  leaf  mold  from  the  woods. 
It  seems  strange,  however,  that  it  has  not  yet  been  detected  growing  in 
the  woods  or  fields.  Hebeloma  fastibile  is  said  sometimes  to  invade 
mushroom  beds,  and  our  plant  resembles  it  in  so  many  particulars  that 
it  is  with  some  hesitation  I  separate  it.  The  chief  differences  are  in 
the  stem  and  spores.  The  former,  in  Hebeloma  fastibile,  is  described 


Ochrosporae 

as  solid  and  fibrous-squamose  and  the  latter  as    10x6  micromillimeters  Cortinarius. 
in  size.     The  brighter  color  of  the  smaller  spores  and  the  stuffed  or 
hollow  smooth  stem  of  our  plant  will  separate   it  from  this   species. 
Peck,  Bull,  of  the  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  October,  1896. 

Cortinarius  intrusus  was  a  happy  find.  Several  pints  of  it  were  col- 
lected by  the  author  in  February — usually  a  famine  month  for  the 
mycophagist.  They  grew  on  the  ground,  in  beds  among  plants,  and 
with  potted  plants  in  a  hot-house  in  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  The  crop  con- 
tinued well  into  the  spring.  The  species  is  delicate,  savory,  and  a  most 
accommodating  renegade  from  its  kind.  I  have  never  found  it  else- 
where. 

** Gills  bhie,  then  cinnamon. 

C.  Cfierules  cens  Fr.  Pileus  2-3  in.  across,  equally  fleshy,  convex 
then  plane,  obtuse,  regular,  even,  almost  glabrous,  but  often  fibrilloso- 
streaked ;  viscid,  when  dry  shining  or  opaque,  dingy  yellow,  almost 
tan-colored,  varying  to  yellowish-brown,  etc.  Grills  slightly  rounded 
behind,  adnexed,  thin,  closely  crowded,  2  lines  broad,  at  first  clear 
intense  blue  then  becoming  purplish,  at  length  dingy  cinnamon.  Stem 
about  2  in.  long,  %  in.  thick  (bulb  more  than  an  inch),  firm,  equally 
attenuated  upward,  at  first  fibrillose,  bright  violet,  then  becoming  pale 
and  whitish,  naked,  bulb  often  disappearing  with  age;  veil  fibrillose, 
fugacious.  Spores  elliptical,  9-10x5^. 

Amongst  moss  in  woods,  etc. 

Neither  the  gills  nor  the  flesh  change  color  when  broken,  a  point 
which  distinguishes  the  present  from  C.  purpurascens.  When  young 
every  part  is  generally  blue.  Smell  scarcely  any.  Fries. 

Spores  10-12x5^  Cooke. 

Haddonfield;  West  Virginia;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  In  woods  September 
to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

The  American  species  seldom  entirely  loses  the  bluish-purple  color 
of  its  cap.  The  beautiful  color  fades  somewhat  or  becomes  splotched 
with  yellow.  Neither  does  the  bulb  ordinarily  disappear  with  age.  It 
is  common.  Taste  of  cap  is  mild,  somewhat  woody.  They  require 
long,  slow  stewing,  and  are  better  made  into  patties  and  croquettes. 

C.  purpuras'cens  Fr.  —  gills  becoming  purple  when  bruised. 
Pileus  4-5  m-  across,  fleshy,  disk  compact,  obtuse,  wavy,  variable, 

3ii 


Agaricaceae 

Cortinarius.  covered  with  a  dense  layer  of  gluten,  but  opaque  when  dry,  bay  or  red- 
dish then  tawny-olivaceous,  spotted;  often  depressed  round  the  margin, 
which  is  at  first  incurved  then  wavy,  marked  with  a  raised  brown  line. 
Flesh  entirely  clear  blue.  Gills  broadly  emarginate,  3  lines  and  more 
broad,  crowded,  bluish-tan,  then  cinnamon,  violet-purple  when  bruised. 
Stem  about  3  in.  long,  %  in.  and  more  thick,  solid,  bulbous,  every- 
where fibrillose,  intensely  pallid  clear  blue,  very  compact,  juicy,  becom- 
ing purplish-blue  when  touched,  bulb  submarginate.  Spores  elliptical, 
IO-I2X5-6/X.  Fries. 

Var.  subpurpuras' cens .     Massachusetts.     Frost. 

Plentiful  in  West  Virginia  mountains  in  mixed  woods,  1882.  On 
South  Valley  Hill,  near  Downington,  Pa.,  October,  1887.  Haddon- 
field,  N.  J.,  1892.  In  woods.  September  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

Both  stems  and  caps  are  juicy  when  young  and  of  agreeable  flavor. 
It  is  among  the  best  edible  species  of  Cortinarius. 

***  Gills  brownish-white,  then  ferruginous. 

C.  turbina'tus  Fr. — turbo,  a  top.  Pileus  unicolorous,  dingy-yellow 
or  green,  becoming  pale,  hygrophanous,  opaque  when  dry,  fleshy,  con- 
vex then  flattened,  obtuse,  at  length  depressed,  orbicular,  even,  smooth, 
viscid.  Flesh  soft,  white.  Stem  commonly  curt,  2  in.,  but  varying 
elongated,  yellowish,  springing  from  a  globoso-depressed  distinctly  mar- 
ginate  bulb,  otherwise  equal,  cylindrical,  stuffed  then  hollow.  Gills 
attenuato-adnate,  thin,  crowded,  broad,  quite  entire,  at  first  pallid  light- 
yellowish,  at  length  somewhat  ferruginous. 

The  typical  form  is  regular,  distinct  from  its  allies  in  the  hygrophan- 
ous pileus,  in  the  gills  being  isabelline- ferruginous  and  quite  entire,  and 
in  being  without  any  dark-purple  or  purple  color.  Easily  distinguished 
by  its  turbinate  bulb.  Fries, 

In  woods.      Uncommon.      Stevenson. 

Spores  rough,  i4-i6x7/*;   rough,  Cooke. 

Cap  2-4  in.  across.  Stem  commonly  about  2  in.  long,  sometimes 
longer.  Mas  see. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz ;  Pennsylvania,  Schweinitz ;  Massachu- 
setts, Frost;  Minnesota;  Nova  Scotia. 

Edible.      Cooke. 

312 


Qchrosporee 


MYXA'CIUM.     (Gr. — mucus.)' 


C.  COllin'ituS  Fr. — collino,  to  besmear, 
glabrous,  glutinous  when  moist,  shin- 
ing when  dry.  Gills  rather  broad, 
dingy-white  or  grayish  when  young. 
Stem  cylindrical,  solid,  viscid  or  glu- 
tinous when  moist,  transversely  crack- 
ing when  dry,  whitish  or  paler  than 
the  pileus.  Spores  subelliptical,  13- 


Convex,     Obtuse,    Cortinarius. 
(Plate  LXXXIII.) 


CORTINARIUS  COLLINITUS. 
About  natural  size. 


The  Smeared  cortinarius  is  much 
more  common  than  the  Violet  cor- 
tinarius and  has  a  much  wider  range. 
Both  the  cap  and  stem  are  covered 
with  a  viscid  substance  or  gluten 
which  makes  it  unpleasant  to  handle. 
The  cap  varies  in  color  from  yellow 

to  golden  or  tawny-yellow  and  when  the  gluten  on  it  has  dried  it  is 
very  smooth  and  shining.  The  flesh  is  white  or  whitish.  The  young 
gills  have  a  peculiar  bluish-white  or  dingy-white  color  which  might  be 
called  grayish  or  clay  color,  but  when  mature  they  assume  the  color  of 
the  spores.  They  are  sometimes  minutely  uneven  on  the  edge. 

The  stem  is  straight,  solid,  cylindrical  and  usually  paler  than  the  cap. 
When  the  gluten  on  it  dries  it  cracks  transversely,  giving  to  the  stem  a 
peculiar  scaly  appearance. 

The  cap  is  1/2—3  in.  broad,  and  the  stem  2—4  in.  long,  and  M  —  % 
in.  thick. 

The  plant  grows  in  thin  woods,  copses  and  partly  cleared  lands  and 
may  be  found  from  August  to  September. 

It  is  well  to  peel  the  caps  before  cooking,  since  the  gluten  causes  dirt 
and  rubbish  to  adhere  tenaciously  to  them.  Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

In  4ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Mus.  Nat.  Hist.,  p.  71,  Professor  Peck  de- 
scribes a  closely  allied  species,  C.  muscigenus,  n.  sp.,  "separated  by  its 
more  highly-colored  pileus,  striate  margin  and  even,  not  diffracted- 
squamose  stem." 


Agancaceae 

Cortinarius.       Prof.  L.  B.  Mendel  gives  the  following  analysis:      "Young  specimens 
gathered  in  New  Haven  early  in  November,  1897,  gave: 

Water 91.13$, 

Total  solids 8.87 

Total  nitrogen  of  dry  substance „ 3.63 

Edible.      Cooke. 

In  appearance  the  Smeared  cortinarius  does  not  appeal  to  be  eaten. 
Neither  does  an  eel.  But  peeled  both  are  inviting.  Raw,  the  caps  of 
this  fungus  have  a  strong  woody  smell  and  taste.  This  is  somewhat 
subdued  by  cooking. 

I  have  found  the  plant  in  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania  and  North 
Carolina,  often  among  the  leaves  in  mixed  woods,  but  it  prefers  a  goodly 
supply  of  light  and  the  freedom  of  open  places.  It  is  often  gregarious, 
sometimes  tufted. 

C.  io'des  B.  and  C.  PileilS  1/^-2  in.,  convex,  at  length  plane, 
viscid,  firm,  violet-purple.  Flesh  white,  thick.  Veil  fugacious,  spider- 
web.  Stem  2—3  in.  long,  i/4  in.  thick,  solid,  thickened  below.  Gills 
violet,  at  length  cinnamon,  ventricose,  adnate,  sub-emarginate,  irregular, 
sometimes  forked.  B.  and  C. 

This  is  a  small  but  beautiful  species,  the  pileus,  lamellae  and  stem 
being  of  a  bright-violet  or  purplish-violet  hue.  The  spores  are  sub- 
elliptical,  generally  uninucleate,  iox6«.  Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

The  pileus  in  this  species  is  sometimes  spotted  with  white.  The 
bulbous  white  stem  is  adorned  with  lilac-colored  fibrils.  Peck,  35th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Sparingly  found  among  roots  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  September,  1897- 
1898. 

The  caps  are  fairly  good. 

INOLO'MA.     (Gr. — fiber;  Gr. — a  fringe.) 
*  Gills  violaceous  then  cinnamon. 

C.  viola'ceus  Fr.  (Plate  LXXXII,  fig.  2,  page  306.)  One  of  our 
most  plentiful  and  beautiful  autumnal  fungi.  As  the  American  plant 
differs  somewhat  from  the  European,  Professor  Peck's  description  is 
given. 

Pileus  convex,  becoming  nearly  plane,  dry,  adorned  with  numerous 

314 


Och.ro  spores 

persistent  hairy  tufts  or  scales,  dark  violet.     LamellSB  rather  thick,  dis-  Cortinarius. 
tant,  rounded  or  deeply  notched  at  the  inner  extremity,  colored  like  the 
pileus  in  the  young  plant,    brownish-cinnamon   in   the    mature  plant. 
Stem  solid,  fibrillose,  bulbous,   colored  like  the  pileus.     Spores  sub- 
elliptical,  12. 5/n  long. 

The  Violet  cortinarius  is  a  very  beautiful  mushroom  and  one  easy  of 
recognition.  At  first  the  whole  plant  is  uniformly  colored,  but  with  age 
the  gills  assume  a  dingy  ochraceous  or  brownish-cinnamon  hue.  The 
cap  is  generally  well  formed  and  regular  and  is  beautifully  adorned  with 
little  hairy  scales  or  tufts.  These  are  rarely  shown  in  figures  of  the 
European  plant,  but  they  are  quite  noticeable  in  the  American  plant  and 
should  not  be  overlooked.  The  flesh  is  more  or  less  tinged  with  violet. 

The  gills  when  young  are  colored  like  the  cap.  They  are  rather 
broad,  notched  at  the  inner  extremity  and  narrowed  toward  the  margin 
of  the  cap.  When  mature  they  become  dusted  with  the  spores  whose 
color  they  take 

The  stem  also  is  colored  like  the  cap.  It  is  swollen  into  a  bulb  at 
the  base  and  sometimes  a  faint  ochraceous  band  may  be  seen  near  the 
top.  This  is  due  to  the  falling  spores  which  lodge  on  the  webby  fila- 
ments of  the  veil  remaining  attached  to  the  stem. 

Cap  2-4  in.  broad.  Stem  3-5  in.  long,  about  >£  in.  thick.  Peck, 
48th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Minerva,  Essex  county.  A  form  of  this  species  occurs  here,  having 
the  pileus  merely  downy  or  punctate-hairy  under  a  lens,  no  squamules 
being  distinguishable  by  the  naked  eye.  July.  Peck,  5oth  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Spores  I2-I4XIO/A  Cooke. 

The  spider  web  veil  is  exquisitely  displayed  in  this  species.  This, 
with  its  strongly  bulbous  base  and  violet  tinge  throughout,  easily  mark 
it.  Though  usually  solitary  great  numbers  of  it  are  found  in  its  settle- 
ments. The  mixed  woods  of  central  New  Jersey  abound  with  it  in  July, 
August  and  September.  Throughout  Pennsylvania  and  West  Virginia 
it  is  common,  and  is  reported  from  several  other  states.  In  Redman's 
woods,  near  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  a  densely  clustered  form  of  singular 
beauty  occurs.  A  dozen  individuals  of  various  forms  and  sizes  with 
swollen  stems  form  a  compact  mass,  rich  in  color,  and  cutting  crisp  and 
juicy  as  an  apple.  They  are  far  better  than  other  Cortinarii  I  have 
eaten.  I  have  not  seen  it  elsewhere. 

315 


Agaricaceae 


(Plate  LXXXIV.) 


CORTINARIUS    ALBO-VIOLACEUS. 

One-half  natural  size. 


Cortinarius.  C.  violaceus  is  everywhere  eaten,  and  is  in  my  opinion  the  best  of  its 
genus.  The  American  plant  is  not  inodorous,  but  has  a  decided  mush- 
room smell  and  taste. 

C.  albo-viola'ceus  Pers.     Pileus  fleshy,   rather  thin,   convex,   then 

expanded,  sometimes  broadly  sub- 
umbonate,  smooth,  silky,  whitish, 
tinged  with  lilac  or  pale  violet. 
Lamellae  generally  serrulate,  whitish- 
violet,  then  cinnamon-color.  Stem 
equal  or  a  little  tapering  upward, 
solid,  silky,  white,  stained  with  violet, 
especially  at  the  top,  slightly  bulb- 
ous, the  bulb  gradually  tapering  into 
the  stipe. 

Height,  3-4  in.  ;  breadth  of  pileus, 
2-3  in.  ;  stipe,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Ground  in  thin  woods,  more  fre- 
quently under  poplars.  Center.  Oc- 
tober. 

The  stem  is  sometimes  subannulate,  and  being  violet  above  and  white 
below  the  obscure  ring,  it  appears  as  if  sheathed  with  a  silky-white  cov- 
ering. Inodorous.  Sometimes  the  stem  gradually  tapers  from  the  base 
to  the  top,  so  that  it  can  scarcely  be  called  bulbous.  Peck,  23d  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  12x5-6/4  Cooke;  6-9x4-5/4  K.;  pruniform,  io/*  Q. 
An  allied  species  C.  (Inoloma)  lilacinus,  Peck,  with  the  stem  and 
bulbous  part  much  broader  than  the  cap,  is  not  as  common,  but  of  far 
better  flavor. 

Common  in  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  in  mixed 
woods.  September  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

A  mushroom  flavor  develops  in  cooking.  The  consistency  of  the 
flesh  is  good.  It  is  of  medium  grade. 

C.  lilaci'nus  Pk.  Pileus  firm,  hemispherical,  then  convex,  minutely 
silky,  lilac-color.  Lamellae  close,  lilac,  then  cinnamon.  Stem  stout, 
bulbous,  silky-fibrillose,  solid,  whitish,  tinged  with  lilac.  Spores  nucle- 
ate, iox6/*. 

316 


Ochrosporae 


(Plate  LXXXV.) 


Plant  4-5  in.  high.  Pileus  3  in.  broad.  Stem  4-6  lines  thick.  Cortinarius. 
Low  mossy  ground  in  woods.  Croghan.  September.  This  is  a  rare 
but  beautiful  plant,  allied  to  C.  alboviolaceus,  from  which  it  may  be 
distinguished  by  its  stouter  habit,  deeper  color  and  bulbous  stem.  In 
the  young  plant  the  bulb  is  much  broader  than  the  undeveloped  pileus 
that  surmounts  it.  Peck,  26th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Massachusetts,  Frost;  Minnesota,  Nova  Scotia. 

I  have  found  a  few  specimens  in  several  places:  West  Virginia,  Red- 
man's woods,  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  in  which  place  it  is  more  plentiful 
than  in  any  locality  I  have  noted.  Near  lake  at  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa., 
August,  and  at  Springton,  Pa.  Excellent. 

C.  as'per  Pk. — rough.  Pileus  fleshy,  firm,  hemispherical,  then  con- 
vex, rough  with  minute,  erect,  brown 
scales,  ochraceous.  Grills  close, 
rounded  behind  and  slightly  emar- 
ginate,  dull  violaceous,  then  pale  cin- 
namon. Stem  equal,  bulbous,  solid, 
fibrillose-scaly,  colored  like  the  pileus 
but  smooth  and  violaceous  at  the  top, 
the  bulb  white  with  an  abundant 
mycelium.  Spores  broadly  elliptical, 
with  a  pellucid  nucleus,  8/t  long. 

Plant  3-4  in.  high.  Pileus  2-3  in. 
broad.  Stem  3-5  lines  thick.  Ground 
in  cleared  places.  Greig.  September. 

A  fine  species.  The  flesh  of  the 
stem  is  violaceous.  Peck,  24th  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

This  plant  sometimes  grows  in  tufts 
or  clusters  and  bears  a  very  close  re- 
semblance to  Armillaria  mellea,  both 
in  color  and  in  the  character  of  the 
scales  of  the  pileus.  Peck,  2/th  Rep. 

In  thin  woods  and  clearings,  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania. 
The  whole  fungus  is  edible  when  young,  and  ranks  high  in  Cortinarii. 
When  full  grown  the  stem  is  hard.  Cut  in  thin,  transverse  slices  it 


CORTINARIUS  ASPER. 
About  two-thirds  natural  size. 


317 


Agaricaceaa 


Cortinarius.  cooks  tender,  but  does  not  equal  the  cap. 
it  is  found  in  the  autumn  until  frost  kills  it. 


Like  most  of  the  Cortinarii 


** 


Gills  pinkish-brown  then  cinnamon. 


(Plate  LXXXVI.) 


C.  squamulo'sus  Pk.     (Plate  LXXXII,  fig.   i,  p.  306.).    Pileus 

thick,  fleshy,  convex,  densely  fibril- 
lose -squamulose,  cinnamon -brown, 
the  scales  darker.  Lamellae  not 
crowded,  deeply  emarginate,  pale 
pinkish-brown,  then  cinnamon-col- 
ored. Stipe  thick,  solid,  shreddy, 
subsquamulose,  concolorous,  swollen 
at  the  base  into  a  very  large  tapering 
or  subventricose  bulb. 

Height  4-6  in.,  breadth  of  pileus 
2-4  in.,  stipe  6-9  lines  thick  at  the 
top,  1 2- 1 8  lines  at  the  bottom. 

Borders  of  swamps  in  woods. 
Sandlake.  August. 

Related  to  C.  pholideus  and  C. 
arenatus,  but  distinct  by  the  deep 
emargination  of  the  lamellae.  It  gives  out  a  strong  odor  while  drying. 
The  color  of  the  flesh  is  pinkish-white.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y. 

This  species  was  discovered  in  1869,  and  had  not  since  been  observed 
by  the  writer  until  the  past  season.  It  is  manifestly  a  species  of  rare 
occurrence.  Peck,  28th  Rep. 

Massachusetts,  Frost;  Wisconsin,  Minnesota.  Ranges  from  New 
England  to  Kentucky  unchanged.  Morgan. 

Specimens  from  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J.,  September,  1897. 
Asylum  grounds.  Several  .found  at  Mt.  Gretna,  August  and  Septem- 
ber, 1897.  Solitary  in  oak  woods,  gravelly  soil.  Mcllvaine.  Sent  to 
Professor  Peck  and  identified.  Specimens  were  much  darker  than  Pro- 
fessor Peck's  plates. 

C.  squamulosus  is  not  attractive  in  appearance.  The  caps,  only,  are 
edible.  Their  consistency  is  very  pleasant  and  flavor  fairly  good. 


CORTINARIUS  squAMULOsus. 


318 


C.  autumna'lis  Pk.  Pileus  fleshy, 
convex  or  expanded,  dull  rusty-yel- 
low, variegated  or  streaked  with  in- 
nate rust-colored  fibrils.  Gills  rather 
broad,  with  a  wide  shallow  emargina- 
tion.  Stem  equal,  solid,  firm,  bulb- 
ous, a  little  paler  than  the  pileus. 

Height  3-4  in.,  breadth  of  pileus 
2-4  in.  Stem  6  lines  thick. 

Pine  woods.  Bethlehem.  Novem- 
ber. The  plant  is  sometimes  cespi- 
tose.  The  flesh  is  white.  Peck,  23d 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa. ,  1 899.    Mcllvaine. 

Quality  fair.      Caps  meaty. 


Ochrosporee 
(  Plate  LXXXVIa.)  Cortinarius. 


CORTINARIUS    AUTUMNALISo 


C.  ochra'ceus  Pk.  (Plate  LXXXII,  fig.  3,  p.  306.)  Pileus  fleshy, 
convex,  at  length*  broadly  subumbonate  or  gibbous,  smooth,  even  or 
obscurely  wrinkled,  pale  ochraceous.  Stem  solid,  fibrillose,  ochraceous 
at  the  top,  white  below,  gradually  enlarged  into  a  thick  bulbous  base. 

Height  2-4  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  2-3  in.  Stem  4-6  lines  thick  at 
the  top,  1 2-1 8  lines  at  the  base. 

Under  balsam  trees  in  open  places.      Catskill  mountains.      October. 

The  stem  appears  as  if  sheathed.  In  some  specimens  the  stem  is 
short  and  rapidly  tapers  from  the  base  to  the  top.  Peck,  23d  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Many  of  the  species  were  found  by  the  writer  in  mixed  woods  among 
leaves  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  September,  1898,  Specimens  were  identified 
by  Professor  Peck. 

The  gills  are  bright  yellow  when  young.  Cap  smooth,  innately 
fibrillose,  not  viscid.  Spores  light  brown. 

Tasteless ;  smell  faint.  Good  consistency.  A  fair  flavor  develops  in 
cooking. 

***  Gills  yellow, 

C.  (Inoloma)  aimula'tus  Pk.  Pileus  broadly  convex,  dry,  villose- 
squamulose,  yellow.  FlesL  yellowish.  Lamellae  rather  broad,  subdis- 
tant,  adnexed,  yellow.  Stem  solid,  bulbous,  somewhat  peronate  by  the 

319 


Agaricaceae 


Cortinarius. 


(Plate   LXXXVIO 


CORTINARIUS  ANNULATUS. 
Natural  size. 


yellow  fibrillose  annular-«terminated 
veil.  Spores  broadly  elliptical  or 
subglobose,  8/u,  long. 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.   Stem  1.5-3 
in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Thin  woods.  Whitehall.  August. 
The  whole  plant  is  yellow  inclin- 
ing to  ochraceous.  It  has  the  odor 
of  radishes.  The  squamules  of  the 
pileus  are  pointed  and  erect  on  the 
disk,  and  often  darker-colored  there. 
The  species  is  allied  to  C.  tophaceus 
and  C.  callisteus,  from  which  it  is 
separated  by  its  persistently  annulate 
stem  and  more  yellow  color.  Peck, 
43d  Rep. 

Specimens    received    from   E.   B. 
Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J.,  September 
5,    189/0        Identified   by  Professor 
Peck.      Mixed    woods   Kingsessing, 
near  Bartram's  Garden,  Philadelphia,  September,  1897. 

Solitary  among  grass  and  leaves.  The  permanent  marking  of  the 
veil  is  conspicuous.  Eight  specimens  were  found  and  eaten.  The  caps 
cook  tender,  and  have  a  decided  but  not  unpleasant  flavor. 

DERMO'.CYBE.     (Gr. — skin;   Gr. — ahead.) 

C.  cinnabari'nus  Fr. — cinnabaris,  dragon's  blood.  Pileus  2-3  in. 
broad,  scaf let-red,  truly  fleshy,  campanulate,  then  flattened,  obtuse  or 
very  obtusely  umbonate,  silky,  then  becoming  smooth  and  shining,  or 
obsoletely  scaly;  the  firm  flesh  paler.  Stem  1^-2  in.  long,  3-4  lines 
and  more  thick,  solid,  equal,  sometimes  however  bulbous,  fibrillose  or 
striate,  scarlet-red,  reddish  brick-color  internally.  Cortina  fibrillose,  lax, 
cinnabar.  Gills  wholly  adnate,  somewhat  decurrent,  3  lines  broad,  some- 
what distant,  connected  by  veins,  unequal  and  darker  at  the  edge,  dark 
blood-color  when  bruised. 

Odor  of  radish.  Readily  distinguished  from  all  others  by  '^splen- 
did scarlet  color,  and  from  C.  sanguineus  by  its  short  solid  and  firm 

320 


Ochrosporee 

stem,  its  broad  pileus  and  somewhat  distant  gills.     Stem  never  becom-  Cortinarins. 
ing  yellow.     Fries. 

Spores  7-8x4/x  Cooke. 

It  is  a  variable  species  with  us. 

Cap  i  %  in.  across,  convex,  broadly  umbonate,  margin  involute,  yel- 
lowish-brown, silky,  innately  fibrillose,  shining,  when  young  the  cap  is 
round,  margin  involute.  Veil  white,  fibrillose,  fugacious,  leaving  no 
trace  on  stem.  Flesh  thick  in  center,  solid,  close-grained,  white,  tinged 
with  brown.  Tastes  strongly  as  radishes.  Skin  partially  detachable. 

Gills  exceedingly  beautiful  in  their  deep  claret-color,  which  is  perma- 
nent, decurrent. 

Stem  3  in.  long,  shining,  smooth,  white  near  top,  brownish  below, 
equal,  fibrous,  stuffed,  skin  removable. 

On  ground  among  pines,  near  station,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa^  August  to 
frost.  Solitary,  gregarious  and  cespitose. 

Taste  and  smell  like  radishes.  The  caps  cook  well  and  are  of  fair 
flavor.  Makes  good  patties  and  croquettes. 

C.  cinnabarinus,  Var.  i.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  August  to  frost.  On  de- 
caying chestnut  stumps. 

Cap  i  in.  across,  shining,  convex,  orange-brown,  white  on  margin 
and  under  minute  appressed  squamules,  but  few  on  margin ;  apparent 
remnant  of  a  veil  on  cap,  as  a  viscid  skin. 

Gills  rounded  behind,  slightly  emarginate,  like  Tricholoma,  grayish- 
brown  when  young,  becoming  a  brilliant  scarlet,  unequal. 

Stem  2  in.  high,  over  K  in.  thick,  white,  covered  with  brownish- 
orange  appressed  squamules,  often  with  stained  marking  of  veil  or  frag- 
ments of  veil  as  ring.  Cespitose,  connate. 

Taste  and  smell  strong  like  radishes.  Flavor  in  dish  is  decided  but 
pleasant.  Makes  good  patties  and  croquettes. 

Specimens  were  identified  by  Professor  Peck  as  C.  cinnabarinus,  as 
were  those  of  the  preceding.  The  variations  are  so  great  that  I  give 
this  place  as  a  variety. 

C.  sanguin'eus  Fr. — sanguis,  blood.  Pileus  i-iK  in.  broad, 
blood-color,  becoming  slightly  pale  when  dry,  fleshy,  thin,  convex  then 
plane,  obtuse,  occasionally  depressed,  silky  or  squamulose.  Flesh  red- 
dish, paler.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick,  stuffed  then  hollow, 
equal  (rather  attenuated  than  thickened  at  the  base),  here  and  there 
21  321 


Agaricacese 


Cortinarius.  flexuous,  with  fibrils  of  the  same  color,  almost  darker  than  the  pileus. 
Cortina  arachnoid,  fugacious,  red  blood-color.  Gills  adnate,  crowded, 
2-3  lines  broad,  quite  entire,  dark  blood-color. 

Wholly  dark  blood-color,  the  stem  when  compressed  pouring  forth 
bloody  juice.  Odor  of  radish,  Thinner  than  species  nearest  to  it.  The 
spores  are  ochraceous  on  a  white  ground,  somewhat  ferruginous  on  a 
black  ground.  Fries. 

Spores  6x41*  W.G.S. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Sprague,  Farlow,  Frost;  Con- 
oecticut,  Wright;  New  York,  Peck,  23d  Rep. 

Edible.     Leuba. 


(Plate  LXXXVII.) 


C.  cinnamo'meilS  Fr.    Pileus  I-2&  in.  across.   Flesh  thin,  convexo- 

campanulate,  umbonate,  somewhat 
cinnamon  color,  silky  squamulose 
with  yellowish  innate  fibrils,  becom- 
ing almost  glabrous.  Gills  adnate, 
broad,  crowded,  shining,  yellowish, 
then  tawny-yellow.  Stem  2-4  in. 
long,  equal,  yellow,  as  is  also  the 
flesh  and  the  veil,  hollow.  Spores 


•     e 


CORTINARIUS  CINNAMOMEUS. 
Natural  size. 


A  very  common  species,  especi- 
ally in  mossy  places  in  pine  woods, 
occurring  under  many  well  defined 
forms,  which  can  not  be  separated  as 
species.  Essential  points  common 
to  all.  (  I )  Stem  everywhere  equal, 

stuffed, then  hollow,  yellowish,  fibrillose  from  the  similarly  colored  veil. 
(2)  Pileus  thin,  flattened  and  obtusely  umbonate,  silky  with  yellowish 
down,  often  glabrous  when  adult,  and  then  bright  cinnamon,  but  the 
color  is  variable.  (3)  Flesh  splitting,  yellowish.  (4)  Gills  adnate, 
crowded,  thin,  broad,  always  shining.  (5)  Spores  dark  ochraceous, 
size  and  color  very  variable;  pileus  from  ^—3—4  in.  across;  color  of 
pileus  changeable,  depending  on  the  more  or  less  persistence  of  the 
down  (fundamental  color  and  veil  constant  in  this  species  and  its  allies)  ; 
gills  varying  through  blood-red,  reddish  cinnamon,  tawny  saffron,  golden 
and  yellow.  Fries. 

322 


Ochrosporse 


PileilS  thin,  convex,  obtuse  or  umbonate,  dry,  fibrillose  at  least  when  Cortinarius. 
young.      Flesh  yellowish.      Lamellae  thin,  close,  adnate.      Stem  slen- 
der, equal,  stuffed  or  hollow.     Spores  elliptical,  8/*  long.     Peck,  48th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  7-8x4^  Cooke. 

The  Germans  are  said,  to  be  very  fond  of  this  species,  which  is  gen- 
erally stewed  in  butter  and  served  with  sauce  for  vegetables. 

Catalogued  by  Dr.  M.  A.  Curtis,  North  Carolina,  as  edible.  Edible. 
Cooke. 

Var.  semi-sanguiri  ens  received  from  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J., 
August,  1897.  Juicy  and  good. 

The  species  is  common  over  the  United  States  and  plentiful  in  its 
numerous  varieties  from  August  to  frost.  It  frequents  mixed  woods, 
borders  and  open  and  mossy  places.  The*  pine  woods  of  New  Jersey 
yield  it  in  quantity,  as  do  the  hemlock  forests  of  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  and 
oak  woods  of  West  Virginia. 

It  has  a  smell  and  taste — mildly  of  radishes.  Its  flavor  when  cooked 
is  decided  but  pleasant. 

TEL  AMO'NI  A  .     (  Gr . — lint . ) 

C.  armilla'tus  Yr.—armilla,  a  ring.  (Plate  LXXXII,  fig.  5,  p.  306. ) 
Pileus  3—5  in.  broad,  red-brick  color, 
truly  fleshy,  but  not  very  compact,  at 
first  cylindrical,  soon  campanulate,  at 
length  flattened,  dry,  at  first  smooth, 
soon  innately  fibrillose  or  squamulose, 
flesh  dingy  pallid.  Stem  3-6  in.  long, 
%  in.  thick,  solid,  firm,  remarkably 
bulbous  (bulb  I  in.  thick,  villous, 
whitish)  and  fibrillose  at  the  base, 
when  old  striate  and  reddish-pallid, 
internally  dirty  yellow.  Exterior  veil 
woven,  red,  arranged  in  2—4.  distant 
cinnabar  zones  encircling  the  stem; 
partial  veil  continuous  with  the  upper 
zone,  arachnoid,  reddish-white.  Gills 

adnate,   slightly  rounded,   distant,  at  first  pallid   cinnamon,   at  length 
very  broad  (  %  in.),  dark  ferruginous,  almost  bay-brown. 

323 


(Plate  LXXXVIII.) 


CORTINARIUS  ARMILLATUS. 


Agaricaceee 

Cortinarins.  Odor  of  radish.  A  very  striking  species.  From  the  pileus  not  being 
hygrophanous,  at  the  first  smooth  and  at  length  torn  into  fibrils  or 
squamulose,  it  might  easily  be  taken  for  a  species-of  Inoloma.  The 
cortina  itself  is  paler  than  the  zones.  It  differs  from  all  others  in  these 
zones.  The  rings  are  usually  somewhat  oblique.  Pries. 

Professor  Peck  in  the  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Cab.  Nat.  Hist.,  describes 
the  American  species  as  follows : 

"PiletlS  fleshy,  thick,  convex  or  subcampanulate,  then  expanded, 
minutely  squamulose,  yellowish-red.  Lamellae  not  close,  broad,  slightly 
emarginate,  whitish-ochraceous,  then  cinnamon.  Stipe  stout,  solid, 
fibrillose,  whitish,  girt  with  one  to  four  red  bands,  bulbous. 

"Height  4-6  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  2-4  in.,  stipe  4-8  in.  thick. 

"Woods.      North  Elba.      August. 

"A  large  and  noble  species.  The  margin  of  the  pileus  is  thin  and 
sometimes  uneven ;  the  upper  band  on  the  stem  is  usually  the  brightest 
and  most  regular.  The  pileus  is  not  distinctly  hygrophanous." 

Spores  iox6/u.  Cooke. 

Edible.      Cooke. 

September  8,  1897,  Mr  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J.,  sent  me 
several  specimens  new  to  me  and  remarkable  in  having  two  well-defined 
veils,  the  lower  and  thicker  one  of  which  left  a  dark  zone  upon  the 
stem,  the  upper,  fibrillose,  was  more  persistent,  but  left  a  fainter  im- 
pression. These  veils  are  not  mentioned  in  Professor  Peck's  description 
of  the  American  species,  but  are  prominently  noted  in  that  of  Fries,  as 
above.  In  a  very  young  specimen  both  veils  were  present.  Cap  light 
brown,  minutely  squamulose,  with  a  few  small  red  spots;  margin  thin, 
involute,  flesh  thick,  yellowish,  firm;  gills  distant,  rounded  behind, 
slightly  emarginate,  alternate  ones  short,  light  brown  inclined  to  cinereous 
on  edge. 

Spores  brown.  Small  young  specimens  did  not  show  bulbous  stem 
as  distinct  as  larger  and  older  ones. 

I  afterward  found  several  specimens  at  Mr.  Gretna,  Pa.,  September 
and  October,  1897. 

The  flesh  is  excellent,  closely  resembling  Pholiota  subsquarrosa. 
The  species  seems  to  be  rare.  If  found  in  quantity  it  will  prove  one  of 
our  very  best  edibles. 


324 


Ochrosporse 

C.  dis'tans  Pk.     Pileus  thin  except  the  disk,  convex,  squamulose,  Cortinanus. 
bay-brown  when   moist,   tawny  when   dry.     Lamellae   broad,   distant, 
thick,  dark  cinnamon-color.     Stipe  subequal,  often  a  little  tapering  up- 
ward, solid,  slightly  fibrillose-scaly,  concolorous. 

Height  2-3  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  1-2  in.,  stipe  4-6  in.  thick. 

Grassy  ground  in  pine  woods.      Greenbush.      June. 

The  flesh  is  dull-yellowish.  The  pileus,  when  drying,  has  for  a  time 
a  brown-marginal  zone.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

New  Jersey  pines.  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  coniferous  woods.  August. 
Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  pines.  August,  September.  Mcllvaine. 

Like  most  of  the  hygrophanous  Cortinarii,  the  taste  is  more  or  less 
that  of  rotten  wood.  The  flavor  is  flat  and  undesirable. 

C.  furfurel'lus  Pk.  Pileus  thin,  convex,  furfuraceous  with  minute 
squamules,  hygrophanous,  watery-tawny  when  moist,  pale  ochraceous 
when  dry.  Lamellae  broad,  thick,  distant,  adnate  or  slightly  emargi- 
nate,  tawny-yellow,  then  cinnamon.  Stem  equal,  peronate,  colored  like 
the  pileus,  with  a  slight  annulus  near  the  top.  Spores  subelliptical, 
minutely  rough,  8-iox6/A. 

Plant    1-2  in.  high.      Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.     Stem  2-4  lines  thick. 

Moist  ground  in  open  places.  Gansevoort.  August.  Peck,  32d 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     Mcllvaine. 

Strong  woody  flavor — like  rotten  wood.  Not  poisonous,  but  not 
desirable. 

HYGROCYBE. 

C.  casta'neus  Bull. — chestnut.  Pileus  fleshy,  thin,  campanulate  or 
convex,  then  expanded,  dark  chestnut-color  when  moist,  paler  when 
dry.  Lamellae  rather  broad,  violet-tinged,  then  cinnamon.  Stipe 
fibrillose,  stuffed  or  hollow,  lilac  tinged  at  the  top,  white  below. 

Height  2-3  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  1-2  in.,  stipe  3-4  lines  thick. 

Ground  under  spruce  or  balsam  trees.  Catskill  mountains.  October. 
Edible.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  8x5/a. 

It  is  certainly  a  wholesome,  esculent  species,  but  a  great  number 
would  be  required  to  make  a  good  dish.  M ' .  C,  Cooke. 

Catalogued  by  Rev.  M.  A.  Curtis,  North  Carolina,  as  edible. 

325 


Agaricaceee 

Cortinarius.       Eaten  in  Italy.     Inodorous,  edible  and  agreeable.     Cordier.     More 
than  fair.     I  have  often  eaten  it.     R.  K.  Macadam. 


PAXIL'LUS  Fr. 

Paxillus,  a  small  stake. 

PaxUlns.  Hymenophore  continuous  with  the  stem,  decurrent.  Gills  membra- 
naceous,  somewhat  branched,  frequently  anastomosing  behind,  distinct 
from  the  hymenophore  and  easily  separable  from  it.  Spores  dingy-white 
or  ferruginous. 

Fleshy  putrescent  fungi,  margin  of  pileus  at  first  involute,  then  con- 
timially  and  gradually  unfolding  and  expanding.  Fries. 

Pileus  symmetrical  or  eccentric.  Stem  central,  eccentric  or  wanting. 
Edge  of  gills  entire,  sharp. 

The  marked  features  of  this  genus  are  the  strongly  involute  margin, 
the  soft,  tough,  decurrent  gills,  separating  readily  from  the  flesh,  and 
the  color  of  the  spores. 

The  members  of  this  genus  possess  some  of  the  characters  of  Boletus. 
The  gills  separate  easily  from  the  hymenophore  as  do  the  tubes  of  the 
latter,  and  their  anastomosing  tendency  is  in  P.  porosus  so  marked  that 
the  hymenium  consists  of  large  angular  tubes.  The  gills  of  P.  solidus 
B.  and  C.  form  pores  at  the  base,  and  its  spores  are  elongated,  both 
features  indicating  an  affinity  with  Boletus. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

LEPISTA  (a  pan).     Page  327. 

Pileus  entire,  central.  Spores  dingy-white,  in  P.  panaeolus  somewhat 
rust-color.  On  the  ground. 

326 


Ochrosporse 
TAPINIA  (to  depress).     Page  -i-^.O 

Pileus  generally  eccentric  or  resupinate.     Spores  rust-color.     On  the  Paxillus. 
ground  or  on  stumps. 

So  far  as  known  the  species  of  this  genus  are  harmless.  Many  of 
them  are  large,  fleshy  and  inviting  in  appearance,  but  their  flesh  is 
usually  dry  and  coarse,  and,  though  absorbent,  is  hard  to  cook  tender. 
P.  atrotomentosus,  which  seems  to  be  rare,  is  an  exception.  The  flesh 
of  this  species  being  firm  in  texture  and  readily  made  into  a  first-class 
dish. 

LEPIS'TA. 

P.  lepis'ta  Fr. — lepista,  a  pan.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  flat  or  depressed, 
dirty-white,  smooth,  sometimes  minutely  cracked  near  the  margin 
which  is  thin,. involute  and  often  undulate.  Stem  very  variable  in  length, 
1-4  in.,  %—%  in.  thick,  dingy  white  or  cream,  solid,  white  inside, 
equal,  with  a  cartilaginous  cuticle  passing  between  the  gills  and  the 
flesh  of  the  pileus,  base  blunt,  villous,  white.  Gills  very  decurrent, 
crowded,  2-3  lines  broad,  slightly  branched  but  not  at  the  base,  dingy- 
white  becoming  darker, 

Spores  reddish,  becoming  dingy  brown.  Broadly  pyriforme  6x8/* 
Massee. 

Pennsylvania.  September,  1894.  Mcllvaine.  Albion,  N.  Y.,  Dr. 
CnsJdng,  1898. 

On  ground  in  woods  and  margins  of  woods. 

Flesh  white.  Gills  narrow,  crowded,  brittle,  decurrent,  dingy-white 
or  pale-buff,  easily  separating  from  cap.  Stem  solid,  elastic,  at  length 
hollow,  often  short,  an  inch  long,  tapering  downward,  frequently  up  to 
four  inches  in  length  and  equal,  base  villose. 

Resembling  Lactarius  piperatus  and  some  forms  of  Clitocybe.  It  is 
separated  from  the  former  by  the  absence  of  milk  and  from  the  latter  by 
its  involute  margin.  The  Clitocybe  resembling  it  are  all  edible. 

Smell  strong,  like  old  oily  nuts.     Edible  but  coarse. 

P.  li'vidus  Cke.  Pileus  1-2  in.  across,  convex,  at  length  slightly 
depressed  at  the  disk,  margin  slightly  arched  and  incurved,  dingy- 
white,  or  livid  ochraceous,  opaque.  Gills  decurrent,  arcuate,  almost 

327 


Agaric  aceae 


Paxiiius.  crowded,  iK  line  broad,  white.  Stem  3-4  in.  long,  K  in.  thick  at  the 
apex,  attenuated  downward,  white,  fibrillose,  stuffed  then  hollow,  usu- 
ally rather  flexuous.  Flesh  nearly  white.  Spores  globose,  3-3.5/4 
diameter,  nearly  white. 

In  woods.  Usually  in  small  clusters.  Closely  allied  to  Paxiiius  revo- 
lutus,  but  distinguished  by  the  absence  of  any  tinge  of  violet  on  the 
pileus  or  stem,  and  by  the  persistently  white  gills.  Massee. 

Received  from  Katherine  A.  Hall,  Danville,  N.  Y.     October,  1898. 

Raw  it  tastes  like  a  drug-store  smell.     Edible,  pleasant. 

TAPI'NIA. 


(Plate   XC.) 


P.  involu'tllS  (Batsch)  Fr. — involutus,  rolled  inward.     Pileus  2-5 

in.  broad,  fleshy,  compact,  con- 
vexo-plane  then  depressed ,  smooth , 
viscid  when  moist,  shining  when 
dry,  yellowish  or  tawny-ochrace- 
ous,  strongly  involute,  margin 
densely  downy,  flesh  pallid.  Stem 
2-4  in.  high,  about  '2  in.  thick, 
solid,  firm,  paler  than  the  pileus, 
central  or  eccentric.  Gills  2-3 
lines  broad,  crowded,  branched, 
anastomosing,  forming  pores  be- 
hind, whitish  then  yellowish  or 
rusty,  spotting  when  bniised, 

Spores  rust-color,  ellipsoid  or 
oblong-ellipsoid  8-i6x6/n  K.;  5x 
6/i  W.  G.  S.  Elliptical,  8-io/» 
Peck. 

It  grows  singly  or  in  groups  and  likes  damp  mossy  soil.  Common 
in  cool  hemlock  or  spruce  woods  in  the  Adirondack  mountains ;  not 
rare  in  the  mixed  woods  of  all  our  hilly  districts.  When  growing  on 
decayed  stumps  the  stem  is  sometimes  eccentric.  August,  November. 
C.  H.  Peck. 

In  open  woods  near  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  it  grows  to  a  large  size  and 
in  quantity.  In  Angora  woods  near  Philadelphia  a  complete  ring  of  it 
20  ft.  in  diameter  was  seen. 

328 


PAXILLUS  INVOLUTUS. 
One-half  natural  size. 


Ochrosporee 

Considered  edible  throughout  Europe  and  said  to  be  highly  esteemed  Paxiiius. 
in  Russia.    The  flesh  of  the  American  plant  is  dry  and  coarse,  does  not 
cook  tender  and  is  rather  tasteless. 

P.  a'tro-tomento'sus  (Batsch.)  Fr. — ater,  black/  tomentum,  down. 
Pileus  3-6  in.  broad,  rust-color  or  reddish-brown,  compactly  fleshy, 
eccentric,  convex  then  plane  or  depressed,  margin  thin,  frequently- 
minutely  rivulose,  sometimes  tomentose  in  the  center.  Flesh  white. 
Stem  3-6  in.  high,  /z-i  in.  thick,  stout,  solid,  elastic,  eccentric  or 
lateral,  unequal  rooting,  covered  with  dense  velvety  down,  very  dark 
brown.  Grills  adnate,  3  lines  broad,  close,  anastomosing  at  the  base, 
yellowish,  interspaces  venose. 

Spores  subhyaline  4-6x3-4^  K.  Elliptical,  pale-yellowish,  5x2.5- 
3/A  Massee.  Elliptical  5-6x4^  Peck. 

Found  near  Philadelphia,  gregarious  in  old  woods.  September.  In 
New  Jersey  in  pine  woods  on  stumps  and  on  the  ground,  probably 
growing  from  roots.  Mcllvaine. 

Grows  singly  or  cespitose,  sometimes  in  large  tufts,  when  the  pileus  is 
frequently  irregular  from  compression.  In  wet  weather  the  pileus  is 
moist  and  sometimes  obscurely  mottled  with  dark  spots.  Occasionally 
it  has  an  unpleasant  dirt-like  odor.  Peck. 

Cordier  considers  this  species  suspicious  and  Paulet  inutile  on  account 
of  its  bad  taste. 

The  flesh  differs  from  most  Paxilli  in  being  very  fine  grained  and 
cooked  is  of  the  consistency  of  a  marshmallow.  The  taste  is  marked 
but  pleasant. 


Agaricaceae 


Series  IV,    PORPHYRO'SPOR-ffi  (Pratelli).     Gr.—  purple. 

Spores  typically  black-purple  or  brownish-purple,  more  rarely  dusky 
brown.  (It  is  to  be  observed  that  the  spores  vary  in  color  according  to 
the  color  of  the  ground  on  which  they  are  deposited.  )  There  are  sterile 
forms  with  the  gills  persistently  white  (A.  obturatus,  A.  udus)  .  Those 
species  are  more  deceptive  in  which  the  gills  continue  for  a  long  time 
white,  and  even  begin  to  decay  before  they  are  discolored  by  the  spores  ; 
these  may  be  easily  mistaken  for  Leucospori.  Fries. 

Pratelli  is  the  name  given  by  the  early  authors  to  this  series,  based 
upon  the  spore  color;  Porphyrosporae  is  the  name  now  used.  The  spe- 
cies within  the  group  are  closely  allied  to  those  having  black  spores 
without  a  tinge  of  purple  or  violet  (Melanosporae),  but  in  none  of  the 
species  do  the  gills  deliquesce  as  in  Coprinus,  neither  are  there  resupi- 
nate  or  lateral  stemmed  species. 

There  is  a  present  tendency  to  do  away  with  this  series  and  include 
all  dark-spored  species  in  the  Melanosporae.  Professor  Atkinson  and 
Bertha  Stoneman,  in  their  "Provisional  Key  to  the  Genera  of  Hymen- 
omit  the  series  and  give  "  Melanosporae,  Gill  and  Butz 
(Pratellae  and  Coprinariae  in  broadest  sense). 
Spores  dark  brown,  purplish-brown  or  black." 
It  is  frequently  difficult  to  determine  by  the 
spore-color  of  this  series  even  to  which  series  a 
specimen  belongs.  Many  of  our  best  edibles 
belong  in  this  series.  I  know  of  none  noxious. 


omycetes, 


Chitonia. 


(PlateXCI.) 


CHITO'NIA  Fr. 

Universal  veil  distinct  from  the  pileus,  at  ma- 
turity forming  a  distinct  volva  round  the  base  of 
the  ringless  central  stem.  Gills  free  from  the 
stem.  Spores  brownish-purple. 

Analogous    in    structure    with   Volvaria    and 
Amanitopsis.     An  exotic  genus  imported  into 
this  country. 
No  American  species  reported. 


CHITONIA  RUBRICEPS. 
Two-thirds  natural   size. 


PLATE  XCII. 


PORPHYRQSPORAE. 


HYPHOLOMA 


PSILOCYBE. 


PSATHYRA 


DECONICA. 


CHART  OF  GENERA  ix  PURPLE-STORKD  SERIES — roRPHYROsroRAE.  PAGE  330 


Porphyrosporee 

AGAR'ICUS. 

Agaricon,  a  Greek  name  for  fungi,  said  to  be  derived  from  the  name 

of  a  town,   Agara. 

Pileus  fleshy,  flesh  of  the  stem  different  from  that  of  the  pileus,  fur- 
nished  with  a  distinct  ring.  Gills  at  first  enclosed  by  the  veil,  free, 
rounded  behind,  at  first  white  or  whitish,  in  some  species  this  stage  last- 
ing but  a  short  time,  then  pink  or  reddish,  at  length  dark  purplish- 
brown  from  the  spores.  Spores  brown,  brownish  or  reddish-purple. 

On  the  ground,  generally  in  pastures,  meadows  or  manured  ground, 
a  few  species  occur  in  woods. 

Analogous  with  Lepiota  of  the  white-spored  series.  Stropharia  also 
bears  a  ring  and  has  similar  colored  spores,  but  is  separated  by  the  flesh 
of  stem  and  pileus  being  continuous  and  the  gills  being  more  or  less 
adnate. 

Formerly  in  Agaricus  as  sub-genus  Psalliota  (psallion,  psalion,  in 
poetry,  a  ring).  When  Psalliota  was  raised  to  generic  rank  it  was  given 
the  name  of  the  great  genus  Agaricus  as  a  mark  of  distinction  on  ac- 
count of  its  including  the  most  widely  known  and  useful  mushroom  of 
the  world — Agaricus  campester.  The  name  Psalliota  is  not  in  modern 
use. 

Old  Agaricus  included  many  subgenera  and  consequently  many  more 
species.  Now  it  contains  but  few.  All  of  them  are  highly  flavored  and  of 
marked  excellence.  Before  the  subgenera  under  Agaricus  were  promoted 
to  full  generic  standing  it  was  customary  to  state  the  name  of  a  species 
thus:  Agaricus  (Psalliota)  campester.  Agaricus  (Stropharia)  semi- 
orbicularis.  This  was  lengthy  and  clumsy.  In 'the  older  books  this 
form  prevails.  Often,  however,  the  subgenus  is  omitted  before  the 
name,  which  compels  the  student  to  look  up  the  subgenus  to  which  the 
species  belongs.  The  older  books  are  therefore  puzzling  to  modern 
students,  who  find  there  simply  the  name  Agaricus  to  guide  them.  The 
present  genus  of  a  known  species  in  old  Agaricus  can  be  easily  found 
by  looking  in  the  index  for  its  specific  name.  The  name  of  the  genus 
follows  it  in  parentheses. 

All  of  the  genus  can  be  cooked  in  any  desired  way. 


331 


Agaricacese 

ANALYSIS  OF  SPECIES. 

Agaricus.       *  Gills  at  first  or  very  soon  pink  or  rosy. 
*  Gills  at  first  brownish  or  gray. 
**  Gills  .at  first  white  or  whitish. 

*  Gills  at  first  or  very  soon  pink  or  rosy. 

A.  campes'ter  Linn. — campus,  a  field.  (Plate  XCIII,  fig.  4  (3  figs.) 
XCIIItf.  PileilS  at  first  hemispherical  or  convex,  then  expanded 
with  decurved  margin  or  nearly  plane,  smooth,  silky  floccose  or 
hairy  squamulose,  the  margin  extending  beyond  the  lamellae,  the  flesh 
rather  thick,  firm,  white.  Lamellae  free,  close,  ventricose,  at  first  deli- 
cate pink  or  flesh  color,  then  blackish-brown,  subde  liquescent.  Stem 
equal  or  slightly  thickened  toward  the  base,  stuffed,  white  or  whitish, 
nearly  or  quite  smooth.  Ring  at  or  near  the  middle,  more  or  less  lacer- 
ated, sometimes  evanescent.  Spores  elliptical,  6-8x4-5^. 

Plant  2-4  in.  high.  Pileus  1-5-4  in-  or  more  broad.  Stem  4-8 
lines  thick.  Peck,  36th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  spheroid-ellipsoid,  9x6/1*  K.;  6x8/*  W.G.S. 

The  varieties  of  A.  campester  are  numerous.  All  of  them  are  edible 
and  vary  but  slightly  in  their  excellence. 

Var.  at  bus  Berk. — albus,  white.  A  very  common  wild  form.  Cap 
2-4  in.  across,  smooth  or  slightly  fibrillose.  Stem  1^2-3  in.  long, 
K-%  in.  thick,  white  or  whitish.  Spring  to  autumn,  in  rich  grassy 
places.  Sometimes  very  large.  It  is  cultivated. 

,     Var.  gri'seus  Pk. — griseus,  gray.   Cap  grayish,  silky,  shining.    Rinfif 
vanishing.      Reported  from  Virginia. 

Var.  prati'cola  Vitt. — pratwn,  a  meadow;  colo,  to  inhabit.  Meadow 
variety.  Cap  covered  with  reddish  scales.  Flesh  pinkish.  Parade 
ground,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa. 

Var.  timbri'mis  Vitt. — umber,  dark  brown.  Cap  brown,  smooth. 
Stem  short,  minutely  scaly. 

"Var.  rufescens  Berk.—nifescens,  becoming  red.  PileilS  reddish, 
minutely  scaly.  Gills  at  first  white.  Stem  elongated.  Flesh  turning 
bright  red  when  cut  or  bruised.  This  departs  so  decidedly  from  the 
ordinary  characters  qf  the  type,  especially  in  the  white  color  of  the 
young  gills,  that  it  seems  to  merit  separation  as  a  distinct  species. ' '  Peck, 
36th  Rep. 

332 


;  IWJfcra  XC/il. 


"\ 


PLATE  XCIIIa. 


Photograph  by  C.  F.  Millspaugh. 


Cultivated. 


AGARICUS  CAMPESTER. 


Porphyrosporee 

Var.  villa  ticus  Brond. — belonging  to  a  villa.   Cap  scaly.   Stem  scaly.  Agaricus. 

Var.  Jiorteri sis  Cke. — growing  in  gardens.  Cap  brownish  or  yellow- 
ish-brown, covered  with  fibrils  or  minute  hairs.  This  is  a  cultivated 
species. 

"Var.  Bu'channi.  Cap  white,  smooth,  depressed  in  center,  the  mar- 
gin naked.  Stem  stout.  Ring  thin,  lacerated.  A  rare  variety,  some- 
times occurring  in  mushroom  beds. 

"Var.  elongdlus — elongated.  Long-stemmed  variety.  Pileus  small, 
smooth,  convex,  the  margin  adorned  with  the  adherent  remains  of  the 
lacerated  veil.  Stem  long,  slender,  slightly  thickened  toward  the  base. 
Ring  slight  or  evanescent.  This  is  also  a  variety  of  mushroom  beds. 

"Var.  vaporarius.  Green-house  variety  (A.  vaporarius  Vitt. )  Pileus 
brownish,  coated  with  long  hairs  or  fibrils.  Stem  hairy-fibrillose,  be- 
coming transversely  scaly.  Conservatories,  cellars,  etc.  Not  differing 
greatly  from  Var.  hortensis."  Peck,  36th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

The  A.  campester  is  known  the  world  over  as  the  common  mush- 
room. It  is  cosmopolitan,  appearing  in  pastures  and  rich  places  from 
spring  and  until  long  after  severe  frosts.  It  is  the  sweet  morsel  of  gour- 
mets. Indirectly  it  has  done  more  damage  than  the  assembled  vicious- 
ness  of  all  other  toadstools.  It  is  by  mistaking  the  young  button  forms 
of  the  deadly  Amanita  for  the  button  forms  of  the  common  mushroom 
that  most  cases  of  fatal  toadstool  poisoning  are  brought  about.  It  is, 
also,  usually  the  persons  who  think  they  know  the  mushroom,  and  can 
not  be  deceived,  that  get  poisoned.  If  two  rules  are  observed  danger 
can  be  avoided,  (i)  Never  eat  a  fungus  gathered  in  the  woods  be- 
lieving it  to  be  the  mushroom.  The  typical  A.  campester  does  not 
grow  in  the  woods ;  species  of  Agaricus  somewhat  resembling  it  do. 
(2)  Look  at  the  gills;  those  of  the  mushroom  are  at  first  a  light-pink 
which  rapidly,  as  the  plant  matures,  darken  to  a  dark-brown,  purplish- 
brown,  or  purplish-black.  This  is  due  to  the  ripening  of  the  spores. 
Those  of  the  Amanita  are  constantly  white. 

Pages  could  be  written  upon  the  mushroom  and  its  culture,  and  reci- 
pes for  the  cooking  of  it  would  fill  a  volume.  One  important  thing  is 
omitted  from  them  all — it  is  culinary  heresy  to  peel  a  mushroom.  Much 
of  the  flavor  lies  in  the  skin,  as  it  does  in  that  of  apples,  apricots, 
peaches,  grapes,  cherries  and  other  fruits.  The  mushroom  should  be 
wiped  with  a  coarse  flannel  or  towel  until  the  skin  is  clean.  See  chapter 
on  cooking,  etc. 

333 


Agaricaceae 

Agaricus.       Lafayette   B.    Mendel,  in  American  Journal  of  Physiology,   March, 
1898,  gives  the  following  analysis  of  A.  campester: 

Two  varieties  of  the  common  mushroom  were  collected  in  New  Ha- 
ven. Fifteen  specimens  of  one  variety  weighed  i%  ounce,  an  average 
weight  of  43  grains  each.  The  analysis  gave : 

a.  b. 

Water 87.88$  92.20$ 

Total  solids 12.12  7.80 

Total  nitrogen  in  dry  substance 4.42  4.92 

Ash  in  dry  substance n.66  17.18 

A.  COmp'tulllS  Fr. — comptus,  gaily  adorned.  PileilS  i-i  /£  in.  broad, 
yellowish-white,  slightly  fleshy,  convex  then  plane,  obtuse,  adpressedly 
fibrilloso-silky ,  becoming  even.  Flesh  thin,  soft,  of  the  same  color  as 
the  pileus.  Stem  2  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick,  hollow,  stuffed  with  floc- 
cules  when  young,  somewhat  attenuated,  even,  smooth,  white,  becoming 
somewhat  light  yellow.  Ring  medial,  torn,  fugacious,  of  the  same 
color.  Gills  rounded-free  behind,  crowded,  soft,  broader  in  front, 
flesh-color  then  rose,  not  dingy-flesh-color  except  when  old. 

Closely  allied  to  A.  campestris,  but  constantly  distinct  in  its  more 
beautifully  colored  gills.  Fries. 

Cultivated  ground.      Menands.      August.     Peck,  Rep.  41. 

Closely  allied  to  A.  campestris,  from  which  it  may  be  separated  by 
its  smaller  size,  the  yellowish  hue  of  the  dry  plant  and  by  the  smaller 
spores.  Peck,  4ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot.. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Parade  ground,  with  A.  campester;  Haddonfield, 
N.  J.  August  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

A.  comptulus  appears  frequently  in  the  latitude  of  Philadelphia.  It 
is  a  neat  species,  but  not  substantial  in  flesh.  Here  it  usually  grows 
close  to  the  ground.  The  ring  is  very  evanescent. 

Its  edible  qualities  are  those  of  A.  campester. 

A.  Sllvat'icus  Schaeff. — belonging  to  woods.  Pileus  thin,  at  first 
convex  or  bell-shaped,  then  expanded,  gibbous  or  subumbonate,  fibril- 
lose  or  variegated  with  a  few  thin  tawny  brownish  or  reddish-brown 
spot-like  adpressed  scales,  whitish,  brownish  or  smoky-gray,  the  disk 
sometimes  tinged  with  red  or  reddish-brown,  the  flesh  white  or  faintly 
reddish.  Lamellae  thin,  close,  free,  narrowed  toward  each  end,  red- 

334 


Porphyrosporse 

dish,  then  blackish-brown.      Stem  rather  long,  equal  or  slightly  taper-  Agaricus. 
ing  upward,  hollow,  whitish.      Spores  elliptical,  5-6.5x4-5^. 

Plant  3-5  in.  high.      PileuS  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  4-6  lines  thick. 

Woods.  Summer  and  autumn.  Not  common.  Peck,  36th  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Hot. 

Massachusetts,  Farlow;  Minnesota,  Johnson;  California — edible,  H. 
and  M. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  August  to 
frost.  In  pine  and  mixed  woods.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible,  Curtis.     Edible,  Peck. 

In  taste  and  smell  A.  silvaticus  resembles  A.  silvicola,  but  is  stronger. 
It  is  a  frequent  but  not  common  species  in  the  localities  where  I  have 
found  it.  Quantities  of  it  have  not  occurred,  but  myself  and  friends 
have  eaten  it  for  years,  knowing  no  distinction  in  effect  between  it  and 
allied  species.  Its  strong  taste  requires  that  it  be  well  cooked.  It  does 
not  lose  its  high  flavor,  which  may  be  objectionable  to  some.  I  prefer 
using  its  juices  as  a  flavoring. 

A.  diminuti'vus  Pk. — diminutive.  PileuS  thin,  fragile,  at  first  con- 
vex, then  plane  or  centrally  depressed,  sometimes  slightly  umbonate, 
whitish  or  yellowish,  faintly  spotted  with  small  thin  silky  appressed 
brownish  scales,  the  disk  brownish  or  reddish-brown.  '  Lamellae  close, 
thin,  free,  ventricose,  brownish-pink  becoming  brown,  blackish-brown 
or  black.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  stuffed  or  hollow, 
smooth,  pallid.  AimulllS  thin,  persistent,  white.  Spores  elliptical  5x4/^1. 

Plant  1.5-2  in.  high.  PileuS  I-I-5  m-  broad.  Stem  1-2  lines 
thick. 

Woods.      Croghan  and  Sandlake,  N.  Y.     August.     Autumn. 

This  is  a  small  but  symmetrical  and  beautiful  Agaric.  It  is  perhaps 
too  closely  related  to  the  preceding  species  (A.  silvaticus)  ,  of  which  it 
may  possibly  prove  to  be  a  mere  variety  or  dwarf  form.  Its  pileus  is 
quite  thin  and  fragile.  Usually  the  darker  or  reddish  hue  of  the  disk 
gradually  loses  itself  in  the  paler  color  of  the  margin,  but  sometimes  the 
whole  surface  is  tinged  with  red.  Peck,  36th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Chester  county;  W7est  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  September;  Mt.  Gretna, 
Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  August.  Mcllvaine. 

I  have  found   A.  diminutivus  so  intimately  associated  with  A.  sil- 

335 


Agaricaceae 

vaticus  that  its  being  a  dwarf  form  of  the  latter  seemed  more  than  prob- 
able.     Its  edible  qualities  are  the  same. 

A.  Rod'mani  Pk.  Pileus  rather  thick,  firm,  at  first  convex,  then 
nearly  or  quite  plane,  with  decurved  margin,  smooth  or  rarely  slightly 
cracked  into  scales  on  the  disk,  white  or  whitish,  becoming  yellowish 
or  subochraceous  on  the  disk,  the  flesh  white,  unchangeable.  Lamellae 
close,  narrow,  rounded  behind,  free,  reaching  nearly  or  quite  to  the 
stem,  at  first  whitish  then  pink  or  reddish-pink,  finally  blackish-brown. 
Stem  short,  subequal,  solid,  whitish,  smooth  below  the  ring,  often 
scurfy  or  slightly  mealy-squamulose  above;  ring  variable,  thick  or  thin, 
entire  or  lacerated,  at  or  below  the  middle  of  the  stem.  Spores  broadly 
elliptical  or  subglobose,  generally  uninucleate,  5-6x4-5^. 

Plant  2-3  in.  high.      Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  6— 10  lines  thick. 

Grassy  ground  and  paved  gutters.  Astoria,  L.  I.  Rev.  W*  Rodman. 
Washington  Park,  Albany.  May  to  July. 

This  species  is  intermediate  between  A.  campestris  and  A.  arvensis, 
from  both  of  which  it  may  be  distinguished  by  its  narrow  gills,  solid  stem 
and  smaller,  almost  globose,  spores.  In  size,  shape  of  the  pileus  and 
general  appearance  it  most  resembles  A.  campestris,  but  in  the  whitish 
primary  color  of  the  gills  and  in  the  yellowish  tints  which  the  pileus 
often  assumes,  it  approaches  nearer  to  A.  arvensis.  Peck, 

36th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

I  can  now  add  my  own  testimony  to  that  of  Mr.  Rodman  as  to  its 
edibility.  Its  flesh  is  firm  but  crisp,  not  tough,  and  its  flavor,  though 
not  equal  to  that  of  the  common  mushroom,  is  nevertheless  agreeable, 
and  its  use  as  food  is  perfectly  safe.  Peck,  Rep.  49. 

This  species  has  grown  freely  for  several  years  at  Hull  and  Cohasset, 
Mass.  It  is  usually  found  about  June  ist,  and  is  not  seen  again  until 
early  autumn.  It  is  the  handsomest  mushroom  I  have  seen,  and  its 
edible  qualities  are  on  a  par  with  its  appearance.  Macadam. 

A.  hsemorrhoida'rms  Shulzer.  Gr. — discharging  blood.  Pileus  4 
in.  across,  reddish-brown,  fleshy,  ovate  then  expanded,  covered  with 
broad  adpressed  scales,  margin  at  first  bent  inward.  Flesh  when  broken 
immediately  blood-red.  Stem  4  in.  high,  I  in.  thick,  soon  hollow, 
fibrillose,  the  solid  base  somewhat  bulbous.  King  superior,  large.  Gills 
free,  approximate,  crowded,  rosy-flesh-color,  at  length  purple-umber. 

336 


Porphyrosporse 

Very  striking,  3-4  in.  high.  The  pileus  and  the  white  stem  become 
spotted  blood-red  when  touched.  The  stem  when  young  is  adpressedly 
squamulose  below,  when  full  grown  mealy,  becoming  smooth.  Fries. 

Spores  purple-brown,  7-8x5;*  Massee;  brown,  elliptical,  $-6x41*.  Peck. 

A  rare  or  overlooked  plant  in  United  States,  first  recorded  by  Professor 
Peck,  who  found  it  but  once,  growing  under  a  hemlock  tree.  Rep.  45. 

Nebraska,  Clements;  West  Virginia;  Eagle's  Mere  and  Mt.  Gretna, 
Pa.  In  hemlock  and  mixed  woods.  Autumn.  Mcllvaine. 

Cap  2-4  in.  across.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  up  to  %  in.  thick. 

Every  part  of  the  plant  turns  red  and  has  a  congested  appearance 
when  bruised.  The  flesh  is  white  but  immediately  becomes  red  when 
broken. 

It  is  a  frequent  but  not  common  species,  growing  singly,  or  in  small 
clusters. 

In  flavor  and  substance  it  is  equal  to  any  mushroom. 

A.  mari'timus  Pk.  Pileus  very  fleshy,  firm,  at  first  subglobose, 
then  broadly  convex  or  nearly  plane,  glabrous,  sometimes  slightly 
squamose  with  appressed  spot-like  scales,  white  becoming  dingy  or 
grayish-brown  when  old.  Flesh  whitish,  quickly  reddening  when  cut, 
taste  agreeable,  odor  distinct,  suggestive  of  the  odors  of  the  seashore. 
Lamellae  narrow,  close,  free,  pinkish  becoming  purplish-brown  with  age, 
the  edge  white.  Stem  short,  stout,  firm,  solid,  equal,  sometimes  bulb- 
ous, white,  the  annulus  delicate,  slight  and  easily  obliterated.  Spores 
broadly  elliptic,  purplish-brown,  7~8p.  long,  5-6/A  broad1. 

PileilS  2-8  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  .6  in.  thick. 

Sandy  soil  near  salt  water,  Lynn,  Mahant  and  Marblehead,  Mass. 
June  to  December.  R.  F.  Dearborn. 

This  is  a  very  interesting  and  an  excellent  mushroom.  Dr.  Dearborn 
writes  that  he  has  used  it  on  the  table  for  fourteen  years  and  that  it  is 
the  only  mushroom  that  he  has  ever  eaten  in  which  the  stem  is  as  good 
as  the  cap.  He  considers  it  the  most  hearty  and  satisfying  of  all  the 
numerous  species  that  he  has  ever  eaten.  Both  its  taste  and  odor  is 
suggestive  of  the  sea.  The  latter  is  quite  strong,  and  perceptible  by 
one  riding  along  the  road  by  whose  side  the  mushrooms  are  growing. 
They  sometimes  grow  in  semicircles  and  attain  a  larger  size  in  warm 
weather  than  in  the  colder  weather  of  autumn.  They  are  most  abun- 
dant in  August.  The  flesh,  when  cut  or  broken,  quickly  assumes  a  pink 
22  337 


Agaricaceee 

Agaricus.  or  reddish  hue  on  the  freshly-exposed  surface.  This  is  a  very  distinctive 
character  and  with  the  maritime  habitat  makes  the  species  easy  to  rec- 
ognize. Another  species,  Agaricus  haemorrhoidarius  Kalchb.  exhibits 
a  similar  change  of  color  in  its  wounded  flesh,  but  is  of  very  rare  occur- 
rence with  us,  does  not,  so  far  as  ascertained,  grow  near  the  sea,  has  a 
darker  cap  and  a  long  hollow  stem.  The  stem  in  the  maritime  mush- 
room is  short  and  solid.  Its  collar  is  very  slight  and  easily  destroyed. 
Peck,  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  26,  No.  2,  F.  1899. 

A.  Califor'nicilS  Pk. — Pileus  at  first  subconical,  becoming  convex, 
minutely  silky  or  fibrillose,  whitish,  tinged  with  purple  or  brownish- 
purple  on  the  disk.  Flesh  whitish.  Gills  close,  free,  pink  becoming 
purplish,  then  blackish-brown.  Stem  rather  long,  solid  or  stuffed,  equal 
or  tapering  upward,  distinctly  and  rather  abruptly  narrowed  above  the 
entire  externally  silky  ring,  pallid  or  brownish.  Spores  broadly  ellipti- 
cal, 5-6x4-5  p.. 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng>  2~4  lmes  thick. 

Under  oak  trees.      Pasadena.     January.     McClatchie. 

This  fungus  is  similar  in  size,  shape  and  habitat  to  A.  hemor- 
rhoidarius,  but  it  is  unlike  that  species  in  color,  in  the  adornment  of  the 
pileus  and  in  its  color  not  changing  where  bruised  or  broken.  Bull. 
Torr.  Bot.  Club,  22-5  My.  95. 

A.  Elven'sis  B.  and  Br. — Name  from  river  Elwy,  Wales,  where  first 
found.  Tufted.'  Pileus  4—6  in.  or  more  across,  subglobose  then  hemi- 
spherical, fibrillose,  broken  up  into  large  persistent  brown  scales,  areo- 
late  in  the  center,  margin  very  obtuse,  thick,  covered  with  pyramidal 
warts.  Stem  at  first  nearly  equal,  at  length  swollen  in  the  center,  and 
attenuated  at  the  base,  4—6  in.  high,  2  in.  thick  in  the  center,  fibrillose 
and  areolate  below,  nearly  smooth  within  the  pileus,  solid,  stuffed  with 
delicate  threads.  Ring  thick,  very  large,  deflexed,  broken  here  and 
there,  warted  in  areas  beneath.  Gills  rather  crowded,  H  in.  broad, 
free,  of  a  brownish  flesh-color.  Spores  elliptic  oblong,  8x4/x. 

Under  oak  trees,  etc.  Edible,  delicious  eating.  Flesh  of  pileus  %  in. 
thick,  red  when  cut.  Masses. 

California,  H.  and  M. 

Edible.      Cooke,   1891. 

338 


Porphyrosporse 

A.  fc^dera'tllS  Berk,  and  Mont. — confederated.  Pileus  fTeshy,  thin,  Agaricus. 
at  first  ovoid  then  bell-shaped,  finally  convex,  somewhat  umbilicate 
with  the  center  slightly  depressed,  margin  hanging  down  (when  dry 
involute),  fragments  of  the  veil  hanging  from  the  margin,  tawny,  scaly 
with  minute,  scattered,  white,  persistent  granules,  2-3  in.  broad,  %  —  \% 
in.  high. 

Stem  stout,  hollow,  stuffed  with  fibers,  gradually  increasing  in  size 
to  the  base;  below  the  ring  rough  from  the  ruptured  bark,  4  in,  high. 
Ring  superior,  broad,  reflexed,  torn,  persistent.  Gills  linear,  medium 
broad,  at  first  pinkish-lilac,  when  adult  brownish,  edge  white,  pulveru- 
lent, adnate,  gradually  attenuated  toward  the  margin.  Spores  dingy- 
brown,  ovoid  oblong,  io/x  long.  Somewhat  cespitose.  Elegant. 

On  the  ground  in  pastures.  July.  Columbus,  Ohio.  Sullivant, 
Mont.  Syll.,  p.  121. 

Edibility  not  reported.      I  have  not  seen  this  species. 

A.  xylo'genus  Mont.  Gr. — produced  on  wood.  Pileus  membrana- 
ceous,  at  first  ovoid,  then  conical,  bell-shaped,  umbonate,  finally  con- 
vexo-plane,  smooth,  pale-yellow,  center  brownish,  margin  split,  striate 
when  dry,  i/^—  2/£  in.  broad,  iK  in.  high.  Stem  cartilaginous,  white, 
3  in.  high,  K  in.  thick,  gradually  thickened  toward  the  base,  hollow. 
Ring  of  medium  size,  inferior,  erect  or  reflexed.  Gills  free,  remote, 
lance-shaped,  rounded  behind,  attenuated  toward  the  margin,  pink  as 
in  A.  campester.  Spores  spherical,  colorless,  hyaline,  S~7-SlJ-- 

On  dead  wood.  August.  Columbus,  Ohio.  Sullivant.  Mont.  Syll., 
p.  122. 

Edibility  not  reported.     I  have  not  seen  this  species. 

**  Gills  at  first  brownish  or  gray. 

A.  argen'teus  Braendle — of  silver.  Pileus  thin,  convex  becoming 
nearly  plane,  slightly  silky  or  glabrous,  pale  grayish-  white  or  grayish 
brown,  shining  with  a  silvery  luster  when  dry,  the  margin  sometimes 
striate,  at  first  incurved,  often  revolute  when  old.  Flesh  whitish, 
becoming  blackish  where  cut.  Lamellae  close,  free,  at  first  brownish 
becoming  blackish  brown  or  black  with  age.  Stem  short,  glabrous, 
solid,  often  narrowed  toward  the  base,  the  annulus  slight,  evanescent. 
Spores  broadly  elliptic,  7-iOft  long,  6/x,  broad. 

339 


Agaricaceae 

Agaricus.       Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  1-1%  in.  long,  M-X  in.  thick. 

Lawns  and  grassy  places  in  rich  soil.  Often  associated  with  Stro- 
pharia  bilamellata  Pk.  After  rains  from  April  to  November.  Wash- 
ington, D.  C.  F.  J.  Brcendle. 

This  is  a  small  mushroom,  peculiar  in  having  the  young  gills  of  a  dark 
color  and  in  the  absence  of  any  pink  hues.  The  gills  sometimes  be- 
come moist  and  manifest  a  tendency  to  deliquesce.  The  drying  speci- 
mens emit  a  strong  but  not  unpleasant  odor.  Mr.  Braendle  says  that 
their  edible  quality  is  excellent  and  that  it  is  not  impaired  by  drying. 
Peck,  Bull.  Torr.  Dot.  Club,  Vol.  26,  F.  1899. 

A.  praten'sis  Schaeff. — a  meadow.  Pileus  2—3)^  in.  across,  ovoid 
then  expanded,  becoming  smooth  or  sometimes  broken  up  into  scales 
more  or  less  concentrically  arranged,  whitish,  then  grayish.  Flesh 
thick  in  the  center,  thin  toward  the  margin,  white.  Gills  free,  rounded 
behind,  about  K  in.  broad,  grayish,  then  brown.  Stem  about  2  in. 
long,  %—%  in.  thick,  base  thickened,  smooth,  whitish.  .Ring  median, 
simple,  usually  deciduous.  Stem  becoming  more  or  less  hollow.  Spores 
elliptical,  apiculate,  6x3.5^. 

On  pastures  and  woods.  Distinguished  by  the  grayish  gills  becoming 
brown  without  any  intermediate  'pink  or  fleshy  tinge,  and  in  being 
rounded  behind,  the  median  deciduous  ring,  and  the  more  or  less  hollow 
stem.  Massee. 

California.    Common.    Edible.    H.andM.    Not  elsewhere  reported. 

A.  achi'menes  B.  and  C.  Gr. — an  amber-colored  plant.  Pileus  4-6 
in.  broad,  pallid  or  yellowish-white,  smooth  like  kid  leather,  but  studded 
with  warty  excrescences  especially  toward  the  center.  Stem  4-6  in. 
high,  3-4  lines  thick,  white,  stuffed  with  floccose  fibers,  furnished  toward 
the  apex  with  a  large  deflexed  ring.  Gills  broad,  crowded  at  first, 
whitish  then  ash-colored  and  dingy-brown,  free.  Spores  brownish,  oval 
or  ovate.  . 

A  splendid  species  allied  to  A.  fabaceus,  but  differing  in  its  pal^r 
spores,  warty  cap,  ample  ring,  etc. 

On  the  earth.  Solitary.  June.  S.  C.  Ravenel.  Am.  Jour.  Sci. 
and  Arts,  1849. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species. 

340 


Porplkyrosporee 

A.  faba'ceus  Berk. — relating  to  beans.  Pileus  4-5  in-  across,  Agaricus. 
thin,  almost  submembranaceous,  umbonate,  conical  when  young,  be- 
coming nearly  plane  as  it  expands,  white,  viscid  when  moist;  epidermis 
smooth,  tough,  feeling  like  fine  kid  leather,  turning  yellow  when  bruised. 
Stem  3-4  in.  high,  K  in.  thick,  white,  smooth,  with  the  exception  of 
a  few  fibrilla,  equal  except  at  the  base.  Veil  large,  at  first  covering 
the  gills  and  connecting  the  margin  with  the  stem,  white,  externally 
floccose.  Gills  crowded,  very  thin,  not  ventricose,  free,  brown  when 
young,  then  darker  brown,  at  length  almost  black  like  the  dark  part  of 
a  bean  flower.  A  fine  species  allied  to  A.  arvensis.  When  young  it 
has  a  peculiar  but  not  unpleasant  smell.  On  the  ground,  amongst  dead 
leaves  in  open  woods.  Waynesville,  September  10,  1844.  Hooker's 
London  Jour,  of  Botany,  1847. 

Described  by  Berkeley  from  specimens  collected  by  Thomas  G.  Lea, 
in  the  vicinity  of  Cincinnati. 

On  ground  among  old  leaves  in  woods.  Common.  Pileus  3-4  in. 
broad.  Stem  3-4  in.  high.  Spores  brown,  nucleate  on  one  side, 
small,  5-5/^long.  Morgan. 

This  is  among  the  most  delicious  species  for  the  table.  Fresh  speci- 
mens have  a  distinct  taste  and  odor  of  peach  kernels  or  bitter  almonds 
which  is  nearly  lost  in  cooking.  Am.  Jour.  Science  and  Arts,  1850. 
Curtis. 

Ohio,  Lea,  Morgan;  North  Carolina,  Curtis;  South  Carolina,  Rave- 
nel;  Massachusetts,  Sprague. 

***  Gills  at  first  whitish. 

A.  arven'sis  Schaeff. — belonging  to  cultivated  ground.  HORSE 
MUSHROOM,  PLOWED-LAND  MUSHROOM.  (A.  Georgii  Sow.,  A.  pra- 
tensis  Scop.,  A.  edulis  Krombh.,  A.  exquisitus  Vitt.)  Pileus  at  first 
convex  or  conical,  bell-shaped  then  expanded,  at  first  more  or  less  floc- 
cose or  mealy,  then  smooth  white  or  yellowish.  Flesh  white.  Gills 
close,  free,  generally  broader  toward  stem,  at  first  whitish,  then  pinkish, 
finally  blackish-brown.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  thickened  toward  the 
base,  smooth,  hollow  or  stuffed  with  a  floccose  pith;  ring  rather  large, 
thick,  the  lower  or  exterior  surface  often  cracked  in  a  radiate  manner. 

Plant  2-5  in.  high.  Pileus  3-5  in.  or  more  broad.  Stem  4-10 
lines  thick. 

341 


Agaricaceee 

Agaricus.       Cultivated  fields  and  pastures.      Summer  and  autumn. 

This  species  is  so  closely  related  to  the  common  mushroom  that  it  is 
regarded  by  some  authors  as  a  mere  variety  of  it.  Even  the  renowned 
Persoon  is  said  to  have  written  concerning  it :  "  It  appears  to  be  only  a 
variety  of  A.  campestris."  Fries  also  says  that  it  is  commonly  not  dis- 
tinguished from  A.  campestris,  but  that  it  is  diverse  in  some  respects; 
its  white  flesh  being  unchangeable,  its  gills  never  deliquescing,  remain- 
ing a  long  time  pale  and  not  becoming  dark-red  in  middle  age.  Berk- 
eley says  of  it:  "A  coarse  but  wholesome  species,  often  turning  yellow 
when  bruised."  Peck,  36th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  spheroid-elliptical,  gx6p  K.,-  Iix6/i  W.  G.S.;  elliptical,  8-10 
X5-6.5/*  Peck. 

Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller;  Minnesota,  B.  L.  Taylor;  West  Virginia, 
North  Carolina,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

Unless  the  numerical  system  of  John  Phoenix  to  express  degrees  of 
quality  is  adopted  by  a  mycophagists'  congress,  and  one  species  of 
fungus  is  chosen  as  the  standard  of  excellence,  the  comparative  excel- 
lence of  species  will  never  be  settled.  English  epicures  shun  A. 
arvensis ;  the  French  prefer  it.  Berkeley  says  it  is  inferior  to  the  com- 
mon mushroom;  Vittadini  says  it  is  very  sapid  and  very  nutritious.  So 
opinion  varies.  Individual  tastes  must  decide  excellence.  Comparison 
never  will.  Toadstools  differ  in  substance,  texture  and  taste  as  one 
meat  or  vegetable  differs  from  another.  Beef  could  not  be  chosen  as 
the  standard  for  meats,  or  cabbage  as  the  standard  for  vegetables. 
Agaricus  arvensis  is  good. 

A.  Hiagni'ficus  Pk. — magnificent.  (Plate  XCIV. )  Pileus  5-:5  cm. 
(2-6  in.)  broad,  fleshy,  thick,  convex,  becoming  nearly  plane  or  cen- 
trally depressed,  bare,  often  wavy  and  split  on  the  margin,  white  or 
whitish,  often  brownish  in  the  center.  Flesh  1-5-2  cm.  (  %  in.)  thick 
in  the  center,  thin  on  the  margin,  white,  unchangeable.  Gills  numer- 
ous, rather  broad,  close,  free,  ventricose,  white  becoming  dark  purplish 
brown  with  age,  never  pink.  Stem  10-15  cm.  long  (4-6  in.),  about 
2.5  cm.  thick  (i  in.),  firm,  stuffed  with  cottony  pith,  bulbous  or  thick- 
ened at  the  base,  fibrillose,  striate,  minutely  furfuraceous  (covered  with 
scurf)  toward  the  base,  ringed,  pallid  or  whitish,  the  ring  thin,  persistent, 
white.  Spores  small,  elliptic,  5-6/u.  long,  3-4/4  broad. 

342 


PLATE  XCIV. 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Briscoe—  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


AGARICUS  MAGNIFICUS.    PECK, 

A  new  species  of  Agaricus. 


PACK. 
342 


Porphyrosporae 

Gregarious   or    cespitose;    thin    woods,  Mt.    Gretna,    Pa.     August.  Agancus- 
CJiarles  Mcllvaine. 

A  large  fine  species  distinguished  from  its  near  allies  by  the  absence 
of  pink  hues  from  the  gills.  Mr.  Mcllvaine  remarks  that  it  has  an  anise- 
like  flavor  and  odor  and  that  when  young  the  whole  fungus  is  tender 
and  high  flavored,  but  when  full  grown  the  caps  only  are  edible.  Peck, 
Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  26,  F.  1899. 

A.  silvic'ola  Vitt. — silva,  a  wood;  colo,  to  inhabit.  (Plate XCIII,  fig. 
2,  p.  332.)  (A.  arvensis,  var.  abruptus  Pk. ;  now  A.  abruptus  Pk.) 
Pileus  convex  or  sub-bell-shaped,  sometimes  expanded  or  nearly  plane, 
smooth,  shining,  white  or  yellowish.  Gills  close,  thin,  free,  rounded 
behind,  generally  narrowed  toward  each  end,  at  first  whitish,  then  pink- 
ish, finally  blackish-brown.  Stem  long,  cylindrical,  stuffed  or  hollow, 
white,  bulbous;  ring  either  thick  or  thin,  entire  or  lacerated.  Spores 
elliptical,  6-8x4-5^1. 

Plant  4-6  in.  high.     PileilS  3-6  in.  broad.      Stem  4-8  lines  thick. 

Woods,  copses  and  .groves  or  along  their  borders.  Summer  and 
autumn.  Peck,  36th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Very  good  eating,  though  scarcely  as  highly  flavored  as  the  common 
mushroom.  Reck. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  June  to  frost.     Mcllvaine. 

A.  s-ilvicola,  by  many  authors  considered  a  variety  of  A.  campester, 
is,  seemingly,  becoming  common.  Professor  Peck  in  46th  Rep.  has 
made  the  abrupt  bulb  and  its  usual  double  veil  distinctive  marks  which 
ally  it  to  A.  arvensis.  He  therefore  calls  it  var.  abruptus.  As  this 
book  goes  to  press  Professor  Peck  writes  me  that  he  concludes  var. 
abruptus  to  be  a  good  and  distinct  species.  It  is  therefore  given  as 
such.  While  familiar  with  it  since  1881,  I  never  found  it  in  quantity 
until  1898,  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  There,  among  the  straw  and  rubbish 
of  abandoned  camps  on  wood  margins,  it  grew  in  great  quantity; 
sometimes  singly,  at  others  in  crowded  clusters.  When  growing  singly 
it  exhibits  all  the  characteristics  of  its  description;  when  clustered, 
the  stems  are  not  always  bulbous.  The  caps  are  thin  but  fleshy, 
brittle  and  bear  a  disproportionate  width  to  the  stem — like  a  plate  on 
a  pipe  stem.  The  cap^s  when  mature  are  usually  tinged  with  yellow  and 
are  spread  flat;  the  ring  is  large,  often  double,  yellowish,  often  torn, 
fragments  of  it  frequently  hang  from  the  cap  margin ;  the  bulb  when 

343 


Agaricacese 

Agaricus.  perfect  is  small,  abrupt,  as  if  it  had  once  been  round  but  the  stem 
pushed  into  it.  It  has  a  strong  spicy  mushroom  odor  and  taste,  and 
makes  a  high-flavored  dish.  It  is  delicious  with  meats.  It  is  the 
very  best  mushroom  for  catsup.  Mixed  with  Russulae  or  Lactarii  or 
other  species  lacking  in  mushroom  flavor,  it  enriches  the  entire  dish. 
The  stems,  excepting  of  the  very  young,  are  tough. 

Larvae  do  not  infest  A.  silvicola.  Its  habit  of  growth  shows  it  to  be 
cultivatable.  It  has  but  one  draw-back.  Growing  as  it  does  in  woods 
and  in  the  presence  of  the  poisonous  Amanita,  it  is  possible  for  the 
careless  collector  to  confound  the  two.  The  Amanitae  have  larger  bulbs, 
cups  at  the  base,  and  white  gills;  the  A.  silvicola  has  no  volva,  has 
whitish  gills  when  very  young  only,  they  become  pinkish,  then  a  marked 
blackish-brown. 

A.  creta'ceilS  Fr. — creta,  chalk.  Pileus  3  in.  and  more  broad, 
wholly  white,  fleshy,  lens-shaped-globose  when  young,  then  convexo- 
flattened,  obtuse,  dry,  sometimes  even,  sometimes  rivulose  chiefly  round 
the  margin  from  the  cuticle  separating  into  sqtiamules.  Flesh  thick, 
white,  unchangeable.  Stem  3  in.  long,  3-6  lines  and  more  thick,  hol- 
low, stuffed  with  a  spider-web  pith,  firm,  attenuated  upward,  even, 
smooth,  not  spotted,  white.  Gills  free,  then  remote,  ventricose  but 
very  much  narrowed  toward  the  stem,  crowded,  remaining  long  white, 
becoming  dingy-brown  only  when  old.  Fries. 

Spores  3x4/1.  W.G.S.;  5-6x3.51".  Massee. 

Under  certain  conditions  the  spores  are  white.     M.  /.  B. 

In  lawns  and  rich  ground. 

North  Carolina,  on  earth  and  wood.  Edible,  Curtis;  Minnesota,  rare, 
Johnson;  California,  H.  and  M.;  Ohio,  Lloyd;  Kentucky,  Lloyd,  Rep. 
4;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  22. 

A.  Subrufes'cen-S  Pk. — siib,  under;  rufescens,  becoming  red.  PileilS 
at  first  deeply  hemispherical,  becoming  convex  or  broadly  expanded, 
silky  fibrillose  and  minutely  or  obscurely  scaly,  whitish,  grayish  or  dull 
reddish-brown,  usually  smooth  and  darker  on  the  disk.  Flesh  white, 
unchangeable.  Lamellae  at  first  white  or  whitish,  then  pinkish,  finally 
blackish-brown.  Stem  rather  long,  often  somewhat  thickened  or 
bulbous  at  the  base,  at  first  stuffed,  then  hollow,  white;  the  annulus 
flocculose  or  floccose-scaly  on  the  lower  surface;  mycelium  whitish, 

344 


Porphyrosporee 

forming  slender  branching   root-like   strings.     Spores  elliptical,  6-Jp.  Agaricns. 
Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller,  1898;  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  Mcllvaine. 

June  2,  1896,  I  found  several  specimens  of  a  fungus  new  to  me,  and 
sent  them  to  Professor  Peck  for  identification.  He  pronounced  it  a 
dwarf  form  of  his  species  A.  subrufescens.  The  cluster  grew  on  a  flor- 
ist's compost  pile  at  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  Its  flesh  has  a  flavor  like  that 
of  almonds. 

This  species  is  now  cultivated  and  has  manifest  advantages  over  the 
marketed  species — it  is  easier  to  cultivate,  very  productive,  produces  in 
less  time  after  planting  the  spawn,  is  free  from  attacks  of  insects,  carries 
better  and  keeps  longer. 

Amateurs  are  likely  to  succeed  in  growing  it,  and  to  have  goodly  crops 
of  mushrooms  instead  of  disappointments. 

A.  placo'myces  Pk.  Gr. — a  flat  cake.  (Plate  XCIII,  fig.  3,  p.  332.) 
Pileus  thin,  at  first  convex,  becoming  flat  with  age,  whitish,  brown  in 
the  center  and  elsewhere  adorned  with  minute  brown  scales.  Lamella} 
close,  white,  then  pinkish,  finally  blackish-brown.  Stem  smooth,  an- 
nulate, stuffed  or  hollow,  bulbous,  white  or  whitish,  the  bulb  often 
stained  with  yellow.  Spores  elliptical,  5-6.5/1*  long. 

Cap  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  3-5  in.  long,  H  to  nearly  %  in.  thick. 

It  grows  in  the  borders  of  hemlock  woods  or  under  hemlock  trees 
from  July  to  September.  It  has  been  eaten  by  Mr.  C.  L.  Shear,  who 
pronounces  it  very  good.  I  have  not  found  it  in  sufficient  q-uantity  to 
give  it  a  trial.  This  mushroom  is  very  closely  related  to  the  wood 
mushroom  or  silvan  mushroom,  Agaricus  silvaticus,  a  species  which  is 
also  recorded  as  edible,  but  which  is  apparently  more  rare  in  our  state 
(New  York)  than  even  the  flat-cap  mushroom.  This  differs  from  the 
silvan  mushroom  in  its  paler  color,  in  having  the  cap  more  minutely, 
persistently  and  regularly  scaly,  and  in  its  being  destitute  of  a  prominent 
center.  In  the  silvan  mushroom  thte  scales,  when  present,  are  few,  and 
they  disappear  with  age.  Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Anthony,  Gouverneur,  N.  Y.,  June,  1898,  writes:  "In 
great  abundance  on  lawn,  tumbling  over  one  another  in  their  haste  to 
make  their  appearance.  One  of  the  largest,  which  did  not  have  half  a 
chance  to  display  its  proportions,  would  probably  measure  7  in.,  per- 
haps more.  When  mature  they  crack  across  the  top,  showing  the  white 

345 


Agaricaceee 

Agaricus.  flesh.  The  gills  are  pink,  stem  white,  solid  and  bulbous.  There  is  no 
perceptible  odor  when  fresh." 

Indiana,  H '.  I.  Miller,  edible,  good. 

Specimens  sent  to  me  by  Mrs.  Anthony,  though  not  fresh,  were  eaten 
by  me.  They  very  much  resembled  the  common  mushroom,  but  proba- 
bly, owing  to  their  condition,  were  not  so  tender. 

I  have  not  found  the  species.  The  illustration  is  after  a  painting  by 
Mrs.  E.  C.  Anthony, 

A.  varia'bilis  Pk. — variable.  (Plate  XCIII,  fig.  i,  p.  332.)  Cap 
2-6  in.  across,  ovate,  bell-shaped,  irregularly  convex  and  wavy,  margin 
incurved  but  never  striate,  smooth,  minutely  fibrillose,  with  few  remain- 
ing floccose  scales;  mature  plant  pure  white,  when  young  distinctly 
tinged  with  lilac  and  here  and  there  with  yellow  when  mature,  slightly, 
broadly  umbonate  and  depressed  around  umbo,  cracks  along  gills. 
Flesh  thick  in  center,  very  thin,  even  membranaceous  toward,  margin, 
spongy,  unchangeable.  Gills  free,  close,  thin,  flaccid,  ventricose,  nar- 
row next  stem,  but  few  short,  pure-white  when  young,  then  dark-umber 
without  purple  tinge.  Stem  equal,  tubed,  white,  silky,  smooth  above 
ring,  rippled  and  minutely  furfuraceous  (scurfy)  below,  flocculose-fur- 
furaceous  when  young,  densely  hairy  at  base,  and  occasionally  slightly 
expanding,  but  not  bulbous,  densely  cespjtose  with  a  coarse,  white, 
root-like  mycelium.  Veil  heavy  at  first,  mottled  with  yellow  scales  be- 
neath ;  as  cap  expands  veil  becomes,  thin,  like  tissue  paper,  ruptures  at 
both  stem  and  margin  leaving  torn  ring  on  stem  and  appendiculate  frag- 
ments on  edge  of  cap. 

Spores  shed  in  great  quantity,  rich  dark  umber-brown  without  shade 
of  purple. 

Taste  strong  like  almond.  Smell  slightly  of  musk,  like  the*  running 
mycelium  of  A.  campester. 

Found  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     Charles  Mcllvaine. 

I  have  never  found  worms  in  this  species.  It  is  very  prolific  and  its 
habitat  shows  that  it  can  be  cultivated.  Its  freedom  from  worms  and 
lasting  carrying  quality  will  make  it  commercially  valuable. 

It  grew  in  an  old  roofless  stable  from  September  until  after  several 
frosts,  in  enormous  quantity,  25  or  3.0  pounds  in  a  patch.  It  differs 
from  A.  subrufescens  in  not  having  a  shade  of  red  about  it,  in  its  very 
distinct  light-lilac  cap  when  full  grown,  and  in  its  snow-white  youth. 

346 


Porphyrosporee 

The  young  gills  are  pure  white  as  are  the  caps.     The  stems  sometimes  Agaricus. 
taper  upward,  but  they  are  usually  remarkably  equal. 
It  is  delicate  when  cooked  and  of  excellent  flavor. 

A.  tabula'ris  Pk. — relating  to  boards.  Pileus  5-10  cm.  broad,  very 
thick,  fleshy,  firm,  convex,  deeply  cracked  in  areas,  whitish,  flesh  whit- 
ish, tinged  with  yellow,  the  areas  pyramidal,  truncate,  the  sides  hori- 
zontally striate,  their  apices  sometimes  tomentose.  LamellaB  narrow, 
close,  free,  blackish-brown  when  mature.  Stem  short,  thick,  solid. 
Spores  broadly  elliptical,  7. 5-90,  long,  6-7. 5/*  broad,  generally  contain- 
ing a  single  large  nucleus. 

In  clay  soil  by  roadsides.      Craig,  Colorado.      August.     E.  Bethel. 

This  species  is  remarkable  for  the  peculiar  upper  surface  of  the  pileus 
which  is  broken  into  pyramidal  areas.  The  sides  of  these  are  marked 
by  parallel  lines  in  such  a  way  that  they  appear  as  if  formed  by  small 
tablets  placed  one  upon  another,  each  successive  tablet  being  a  little 
smaller  than  the  one  immediately  preceding  it.  Only  dried  and  broken 
specimens  have  been  seen  by  me  and  the  notes  of  the  collector  do  not 
give  the  color  of  the  young  lamellae.  There  is  a  trace  of  a  thick  ring  on 
the  broken  stem  of  one  specimen.  Peck,  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol. 
25,  No.  6,  1898. 

Not  elsewhere  reported.     Edible  qualities  not  given. 


347 


Agaricaceae 


PILOSACE  Fr. 


PUosace.       Hymenium  differentiated  from  the  stem.     Gills  free  from  the  stem ; 

general  and  partial  veil  both  absent, 

(Plate  >  CV.)  hence  there  is  no  ring  on  the  cen- 

tral stem.      Spores  purple-brown. 
A  peculiar  genus,  with  the  habit 
of  Agaricus,  but  without  a  trace  of 
a  ring.     Massee. 

P.  eximius  Pk.,  24th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. ,  is  the  only  species  thus 


SECTION  OF  PILOSACE  ALGERIENSIS. 


far  reported  in  America.     Edible  qualities  unknown. 


STROPHA'RIA. 

Gr. — a  sword-belt.      (Referring  to  the  ring.  ) 

stropharia.  Flesh  of  stem  and  pileus  continuous.  Veil  present,  when  ruptured 
forming  a  distinct  ring  on  the  stem.  Gills  more  or  less  adnate. 

On  the  ground  or  epiphytal. 

Separated  from  all  the  genera  of  the  purple-spored  series  but  Agari- 
cus by  the  presence  of  a  distinct  ring,  and  from  that  by  the  continuity 
of  flesh  in  stem  and  pileus,  and  by  the  gills  not  being  free.  Pileus 
somewhat  fleshy,  sometimes  viscid. 

The  species  belonging  to  this  genus  are  rather  small,  and  from  their 
habitats  are  frequently  passed  or  overlooked.  Yet  many  of  them  are 
common  and  plentiful.  Those  which  have  been  tested  are  excellent  and 
worth  seeking  in  their  season.  The  entire  genus  has  been  under  a 
cloud.  Writers  upon  it  assert  some  of  its  members  to  be  dangerously 
poisonous.  So  far  as  carefully  tested  by  the  writer  no  doubtful  one  has 

348 


Porphyrosporee 

been  encountered,  and  one — semiglobata — has  been  eaten  by  himself  stropharia. 
and  friends  since  1881,  notwithstanding  its  dangerous  reputation. 

The  division  between  this  genus  and  Agaricus  is  not  always  sharply 
defined.  S.  aeruginosa,  S.  semiglobata  and  S.  stercoraria  were  formerly 
placed  in  Psalliota,  now  Agaricus. 


ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

A.    VISCIPELLES  (yiscum,  bird-lime;  pellis,  a  skin).     Page  349. 

Pellicle  of  the  pileus  even  or  scaly,  generally  viscid. 
*  Mundi — mnndns,  clean.      Not  growing  on  dung. 
**  Merdarii — merda,  dung.      Ring  often  incomplete. 

B.      SPINTRIGERI  (Stropharia  spintriger). 
Pileus  without  a  pellicle,  but  fibrillose,  not  viscid.     None  known  to 


be  edible. 


A.    VISCIPELLES.     Pellicle  of  the  pileus  even  or  scaly. 
*  Mun'di — not  growing  on  dung. 


S.  fierugmo'sa  Curt. — czrugo,  verdigris, 
compact,  convex-bell-shaped  then 
flattened,  somewhat  umbonate  (ob- 
tuse when  larger),  with  very  viscid 
pellicle,  the  ground  color  yellowish 
but  verdigris  from  the  azure-bhte 
slime  with  which  it  is  more  or  less 
covered  over,  becoming  pale  as  the 
slime  separates.  Stem  hollow,  soft, 
equal,  at  the  first  scaly  or  fibrillose 
below  the  ring,  viscid,  becoming  more 
or  less  aztire-blue  green .  Ring  distant. 
Gills  adnate,  plane,  2  lines  and  more 
broad,  not  crowded,  soft,  whitish 
then  dusky,  becoming  somewhat  pur- 
ple. 


Pileus    fleshy,  but    not 
(Plate  XCVI.) 


STROPHARIA  ^ERUGINOSA. 
Natural  size.    (After  Stevenson.) 


The  above  are  the  essential  marks  of  this  species. 

349 


Variable  in  form, 


Agaricaceae 

Stropharia.  sometimes  cespitose.  The  typical  and  handsomest  form  is  gathered  in 
soaking  weather  in  later  autumn  in  shaded  woods;  it  is  large  (pileus 
and  stem  3  in.  and  more),  stem  squarrose  with  white  spreading  scales, 
intensely  verdigris  or  azure-blue-pelliculose  and  very  glutinous.  From 
this  there  is  a  long  series  of  forms  with  the  gluten  more  separating  (on* 
the  separation  of  the  gluten  the  pileus  becomes  yellow),  and  the  scales 
alike  of  the  pileus  and  stem  rubbed  off.  Finally,  a  smaller  form  occurs 
in  open  meadows,  stem  scarcely  2  in.  long,  only  2  lines  thick,  becoming 
azure-blue-green  and  without  scales,  pileus  1—2  in.  broad,  pale  verdigris 
soon  light  yellowish,  less  viscid.  In  this  form  the  ring  is  incomplete, 
while  in  the  typical  form  it  is  entire,  spreading,  and  persistent. 

In  woods,  meadows,  etc.    Common.    July  to  November.     Stevenson. 

Spores  ellipsoid  or  spheroid-ellipsoid,  8x4-^  K.;  SX//A  W.G.S.; 
elliptical,  10x5/4  Massee. 

POISONOUS.     Stevenson. 

"There  is  a  white  variety,  in  which  the  pileus  is  perfectly  white  from 
the  first."  Cooke. 

S.  aeruginosa  has  been  noted  here  by  Schweinitz  in  Pennsylvania, 
Curtis  in  North  and  South  Carolina,  Frost  in  Vermont  and  Massachu- 
setts, Harkness  .and  Moore,  California,  Morgan,  Ohio.  The  qualities 
of  the  American  representatives  are  not  reported.  I  have  not  seen  the 
species.  As  it  is  asserted  to  be  poisonous  by  European  writers  it  may 
be.  M.  C.  Cooke  says:  "It  has  the  reputation,  which  is  somewhat 
general  on  the  continent,  of  being  poisonous,  but  probably  this  is  only 
assumed  from  its  disagreeable  taste  and  repulsive  appearance."  Collect- 
ors are  cautioned  to  look  out  for  it,  and  not  to  eat  of  it  carelessly. 

I  can  find  no  case  of  poisoning  by  this  species  reported.  It  presents 
another  case  of  "Not  proven." 

**  Merda'rii — ring  often  incomplete. 

S.  Stercora'ria  Fr. — stercus,  dung.  Pileus  I  in.  broad,  yellow,  fleshy, 
but  thin  at  the  margin,  hemispherical  then  expanded,  obtuse,  orbicular, 
with  a  viscid  pellicle,  naked,  smooth,  even  or  at  length  slightly  striate 
only  at  the  margin.  Stem  3  in.  and  more  long,  2—3  lines  thick,  stuffed 
with  a  separate  fibrous  pith,  equal,  clpthed  to  the  ring  (which  is  scarcely 
i  in.  distant  from  the  pileus,  viscous,  narrow,  but  somewhat  spreading) 
with  the  flocculose  veil  which  is  at  the  same  time  viscous  (so  that  it 

350 


Porphyrosporae 

appears  as  if  smooth),  yellow.     Gills  adnate,   very  broad   behind,    2  stropharia. 
lines  broad,  somwhat  crowded,   dusky-umber  or  dusky-olivaceous,   of 
one  color,  quite  entire. 

Stem  silky-viscous  when  moist,  when  dry  becoming  even,  shining  and 
yellowish-white,  and  without  a  manifest  veil.  The  gills  are  truncate  and 
somewhat  decurrent.  Fries. 

Spores  17x13^  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  1 8-20x8- 1 o/x  Massee. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885;  Pennsylvania;  New  Jersey.  June  to  No- 
vember. Mcllvaine. 

I  have  enjoyed  this  species,  which  is  common,  since  1881.  It  is 
usually  conspicuous  upon  droppings  and  manure  piles.  It  also  occurs 
on  richly-manured  ground,  in  wood  and  field,  usually  single;  some- 
times two  or  three  are  united. 

Caps  and  stems  are  edible,  but  do  not  cook  in  the  same  time.  It  is 
better  to  cook  the  caps  only.  They  are  delicious. 


Pileus  com- 

(Plate  XCVIrz.) 


S.  semigloba'ta  Batsch. — semi,  half;  globus,  a  ball, 
monly  %  in.  broad,  lig Jit-yellow,  slightly 
fleshy,  hemispherical,  not  expanded,  very 
obtuse,  even,  viscous.  Stem  about  3  in. 
long,  i  line  thick,  tubed,  slender,  firm  and 
straight,  equal,  even,  smooth,  becoming 
yellow,  paler  at  the  apex,  powdered  with 
the  spores,  otherwise  smeared  with  the 
glutinous  veil  which  is  abrupt  above  ter- 
minating in  an  incomplete  (not  membra- 
naceous)  viscous,  distant  ring.  Gills  ad- 
nate, very  broad,  plane,  clouded  with  black. 

Spores  dusky-purple.     Stevenson. 

Spores  blackish-purple,  I3x8/u,  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  ends  rather  acute, 
12x6^.  Massee. 

Grows  on  dung,  rich  lawns  and  pastures.  April  to  November.  A 
common,  frequent,  solitary  species,  easily  recognized  by  its  hemi- 
spherical cap,  dark  mottled  gills.  At  first  sight  it  resembles*  Naucoria 
semiorbicularis. 

The  caps  are  equal  to  any  mushroom.  I  have  eaten  it  since  1881. 
M.  C.  Cooke  says  :  "It  was  Sowerby  who  drew  attention  to  this  species 


SECTION  OF 

STROPHARIA  SEMIGLOBATA. 
Natural    size.     (From    Massee.) 


351 


Agaricacese 

stropharia.  as  dangerous,  and  intimated  that  it  had  been  fatal.     Since  that  period 
we  are  not  aware  of  any  further  evidence  against  it. 
It  is  tender,  good  and  harmless. 


HYPHOLO'MA. 

Gr. — a  web;  Gr. — a  fringe. 


( Plate  XCVIa.) 


Hyphoioma.  Pileus  more  or  less  fleshy,  margin  at  first  incurved.  Veil  webby,  ad- 
hering in  fragments  to  the  margin  of 
the  pileus,  not  forming  a  distinct  ring 
on  the  stem.  Stem  fleshy,  similar 
in  substance  to  that  of  the  pileus  with 
which  it  is  continuous.  Gills  at- 
tached to  the  stem,  sometimes  with  a 
notch  at  the  juncture  (emarginate), 
occasionally  separating  and  then  ap- 
pearing to  be  free. 

Generally  cespitose,  mostly  grow- 
ing on  wood  above  or  under  the 
ground. 

Spores  brownish -purple,  some- 
times intense-purple,  almost  black. 

Corresponding  to  Tricholoma,  En- 
toloma  and  Hebeloma. 


HYPHOLOMA  FASCICULARIS. 
Natural  size. 


352 


PLATE  XCVI1 


Porphyrosporse 
ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

FASCICULARES  (H.  fascicularis).     Page  354. 
Pileus  tough,  smooth,  bright  colored,  not  hygrophanous.  Hyphoioma. 

VlSClDl  (viscidus,  viscid). 
Pileus  naked,  viscid.     None  known  to  be  edible. 

VELUTINI  (H.  velutinus).     Page  360. 
Pileus  silky  or  streaked  with  small  fibers. 

FLOCCULOSI  (floccus,  a  lock  of  wool). 

Pileus  covered  with  superficial  floccose  scales,  at  length  disappearing. 
(None  reported  edible.) 

APPENDICULATI  (//".  appendiculatus) .     Page  362. 
Pileus  smooth,  hygrophanous. 

Members  of  this  purple-spored  genus  grow  upon  decayed  wood, 
either  standing  or  as  roots  in  the  ground,  or  from  ground  heavily  laden 
with  woody  material.  They  grow  singly,  in  groups,  or  in  densely- 
tufted  or  overlapping  masses.  The  several  species  vary  in  shades  of 
yellow,  red,  orange,  brick-color  and  brown;  their  caps  are  from  i— 6  in. 
across ;  their  stems  are  short  or  long,  as  the  number  in  the  cluster  per- 
mits ;  when  growing  singly  the  stems  are  short  and  sturdy.  There  is  a 
floccose  veil,  or  remnants  of  one,  about  the  stem.  The  gills  are  yel- 
lowish, greenish,  olivaceous  or  greenish  shades  of  yellow,  gray,  purple, 
almost  black.  They  are  showy,  easily  recognized  and  are  found  from 
September  until  mid-winter.  I  have  gathered  them  when  frozen  hard. 
The  flesh  is  solid,  or  spongy,  flexible  or  fragile,  white  or  yellowish;  the 
tastes  are  sweet,  nutty,  bitter  and  saponaceous.  Patches  of  them — and 
they  are  frequent  in  almost  every  woods  in  the  land — often  yield  several 
bushels.  Tons  of  them  annually  go  to  waste. 

Old  authors  and  some  copyists  say  "the  species  are  not  edible,  the 
tough  ones  being  bitter,  the  fragile  ones  almost  void  of  flesh."  Eighteen 
years  of  experience  with  them  warrants  my  saying  that  there  is  not  a 
single  wild  genus  approaching  it  in  economic  value,  and  when  its  most 
prominent  species  are  properly  cooked,  few  equal  it  in  consistency  and 
flavor.  As  a  pickle  the  Hypholomas  have  no  superior. 
23  '  353 


Agaricacese 

Hyphoioma.  Half  a  dozen  or  more  of  the  species  are  exceedingly  difficult  to  sep- 
arate. Professor  Peck  has  happily  made  a  new  species,  H.  perplexum, 
which  is  well  named.  For  all  culinary  purposes  these  affiliated  species 
may  be  gathered  under  that  convenient  name ;  for  botanic  purposes  his 
description  covers  several  perplexing  characteristics  common  to  what 
have  been  written  as  separate  species,  and  covers  a  composite  species. 

The  occasional  bitter  taste  of  some  species  is  not  constant,  and  can 
not  be  relied  upon  as  a  distinguishing  mark.  In  the  same  tufts  some 
individuals  may  be  mild,  others  bitter;  some  individuals  in  groups  are  in 
a  position  and  of  an  age  to  absorb  water ;  others  are  not.  There  will 
be  a  marked  difference  in  their  taste  raw.  A  few  in  the  same  group  may 
have  been  infested  by  insects  ;  others  not.  Those  infested  are  often  in- 
tensely bitter,  while  their  companions  are  of  pleasant  flavor.  The  same 
remarks  apply  to  neighboring  clusters  and  individuals.  I  am  of  the 
opinion,  from  long  observation,  that  the  bitter  is  largely  due  to  the  in- 
jury and  excrement  of  larvae.  Changes  of  taste  occur  in  toadstools  in 
a  most  marked  and  rapid  manner.  Apples  from  the  same  tree,  chest- 
nuts from  the  same  tree,  acorns  from  the  same  oak,  radishes  from  the 
same  seed,  blackberries  from  the  same  bush,  differ  widely  in  taste.  Why 
not  toadstools  of  the  same  species? 

I  have  often  seen  species  of  this  genus,  described  as  having  stems  up 
to  5  in.  long,  stretch  and  twist  their  stems  to  over  a  foot  in  order  to  get 
their  caps  from  the  inside  of,  or  from  a  crack  in  a  decaying  stump,  out  into 
the  light;  and  I  have  seen  stems  of  the  same  species  stout,  solid  and 
sturdy  when  individuals  grew  upright  and  singly.  But  wherever  and 
however  they  grow,  Hypholomas  are  safe.  I  have  eaten  them  indis- 
criminately since  1 88 1,  and  as  long  ago  as  1885  published  their  edibility. 

FASCICULA'RES.      Pileus  smooth,  etc. 

H.  perplex'um  Pk. — perplexus,  perplexed.  Perplexing  Hyphoioma. 
(Plate  XCVII,  fig.  2,  p.  352.)  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  gla- 
brous, sometimes  broadly  and  slightly  umbonate,  reddish  or  brownish- 
red  fading  to  yellow  on  the-  margin,  the  flesh  white  or  whitish.  La- 
mellae thin,  close,  slightly  rounded  at  the  inner  extremity,  at  first  pale- 
yellow,  then  tinged  with  green,  finally  purplish-brown.  Stem  nearly 
equal,  firm,  hollow,  slightly  fibrillose,  whitish  or  yellowish  above,  rusty- 
reddish  or  reddish-brown  below.  Spores  elliptical,  purplish-brown, 

354     f 


Porphyrosporae 

The  Perplexing  Hypholoma  has  received  the  name  because  it  is  one  Hyphoioma. 
of  a  group  of  five  or  six  very  closely  allied  species,  whose  separation 
from  each  other  is  somewhat  difficult  and  perplexing.  Of  these  six 
species  three  have  a  decidedly  bitter,  unpleasant  flavor,  and  three  are 
mild,  or  not  decidedly  bitter,  if  we  may  rely  on  the  published  descrip- 
tions of  them.  The  three  bitter  ones,  also,  have  no  purplish  tints  to 
the  mature  gills;  but  two  of  the  mild  ones  have.  By  using  these  and 
other  distinguishing  characters  the  six  species  may  be  tabulated  and 
their  several  peculiarities  more  clearly  shown. 

Taste  bitter I 

Taste  mild,  or  not  clearly  bitter 3 

I.    Stem  solid  or  stuffed,  flesh  whitish,  gills  whitish,  then 

sooty-olive sublateritium 

I .    Stem  hollow,  flesh  yellow 2 

2.    Cap  yellow  or  tinged  with  tawny,  stem  yellow,  gills 

yellow,  becoming  greenish fasciculare 

2.    Cap  brick-red,  stem  ferruginous,  gills  green,  becom- 
ing olive elaeodes 

3.    Cap  red  or  brick-red,  with  a  yellow  margin;   gills  yel- 
low, then  greenish,  finally  purplish-brown perplexum 

3.    Cap  yellow,  or  slightly  tawny  on  the  disk  only 4 

4.    Gills  gray,  becoming  purplish-brown capnoides 

4.    Gills  yellow,  becoming  gray,  neither  green  nor  pur- 
plish   epixanthum 

Probably  in  general  appearance  the  Perplexing  hypholoma  most 
nearly  resembles  the  brick-red  Hypholoma,  H.  sublateritium;  but  it  has 
often  been  mistaken  for  the  tufted  Hypholoma,  H.  fasciculare.  From 
this  it  may  be  separated  by  the  more  red  cap,  the  whitish  flesh,  the 
purplish-brown  color  of  the  mature  gills,  and  the  mild  flavor.  FromH. 
sublateritium  it  is  distinguished  by  its  usually  smaller  size,  more  slender 
hollow  stem,  the  yellow  greenish  and  purplish  tints  of  the  gills,  and  the 
absence  of  a  bitter  flavor.  Some  may  prefer  to  consider  it  a  variety  of 
this  fungus,  rather  than  a  distinct  species. 

Its  cap  is  1-3  in.  broad,  its  stem  2-3  in.  long  and  2-4  lines  thick. 
It  commonly  grows  in  clusters,  though  sometimes  singly,  on  or  about 
old  stumps  or  prostrate  trunks  of  trees,  in  woods  or  open  places.  The 
caps  of  the  lower  ones  in  a  cluster  are  often  defiled  and  apparently  dis- 
colored by  the  spores  that  have  lodged  on  them  from  the  upper  ones. 

355 


Agaricaceae 

Hyphoioma.  It  appears  in  autumn,  and  continues  until  freezing  weather  stops  its 
growth.  It  is  a  very  common  species,  as  well  as  a  late  one,  and  may 
often  be  gathered  in  large  quantity.  Its  flavor  is  not  first  quality,  but 
with  good  preparation  it  makes  a  very  acceptable  dish.  It  has  been 
tested  by  myself  and  correspondents  several  times,  and  has  been  proved 
harmless.  Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885;  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina,  Pennsyl- 
vania, October  to  January.  On  stumps,  roots,  ground  containing  de- 
cayed woody  matter.  Mcllvaine. 

H.  perplexum  is  abundant  in  most  if  not  all  the  states.  I  have  eaten 
it  and  its  allied  species  since  1881  ;  dried  them,  pickled  them,  and  fed 
them  to  many.  If  the  collector  gets  puzzled,  as  he  will,  over  one  or 
all  of  these  species,  because  no  description  fits,  he  can  whet  his  patience 
and  appetite  by  calling  it  H.  perplexum  and  graciously  eating  it. 

H.  capnoi'des  Fr.  Gr. — like  smoke,  from  the  color  of  the  gills. 
Pileus  I  in.  sometimes  3  in.  broad,  ochraceous-yellowisJi,  fleshy,  convex, 
then  flattened,  obtuse,  dry,  smooth.  Flesh  somewhat  thin,  white.  Stem 
2—3  in.  long,  2—4  lines  thick,  growing  together  at  the  base,  hollow, 
equal,  often  curved  and  flexuous,  becoming  silky-even,  pallid,  whitish  at 
the  apex,  here  and  there  striate,  becoming  rust-colored  under  the  surface- 
covering  when  old.  Cortina  appendiculate,  white,  then  becoming 
brownish-purple.  Gills  adnate,  easily  separating,  somewhat  crowded, 
rather  broad,  arid,  at  first  bluish-gray  then  becoming  brownish-purple. 

Cespitose,  fasciculate;  odor  and  taste  mild.  On  pine-stumps.  Un- 
common. Fries. 

Spores  ellipsoid-spheroid,  7x5/4  K.;  elliptical,  brownish-purple,  8x4^ 
Massee. 

California,  H.  and  M.;  Minnesota,  not  necessarily  in  fir-woods,  Jolm- 
son;  New  York,  on  or  about  stumps  or  decaying  wood  of  spruce.  Peck, 
50th  Rep. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  1894.  Pine  roots  and  stumps,  and  on  ground. 
Cespitose.  September  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

A  pretty  species  with  caps  up  to  \%  in.  across.  Stem  2-4  in.  long, 
%—%  in.  thick,  growing  together  (connate).  The  taste  and  smell  are 
pleasant.  The  basket  is  soon  filled  from  its  clusters.  There  is  not  a 
better  Hyphoioma.  The  slightly  soapy  taste  which  attaches  to  most  of 
the  abundant  and  better  known  species  is  absent  in  this. 

356 


Porphyrosporae 

H.  fascicula'ris  Huds. — fasciculus,  a  small  bundle.  (Plate  XCVIII, 
P-  352.)  PileilS  about  2  in.  broad,  light  yellow,  the  disk  commonly 
darker,  fleshy,  thin,  convex,  then  flattened,  somewhat  umbonate  or 
obtuse,  even,  smooth,  dry.  Flesh  light  yellow.  Stem  very  variable 
in  length,  hollow,  thin,  incurved  or  flexuous,  fibrillose,  of  the  same 
color  as  the  pileus  and  flesh.  Gills  adnate,  very  crowded,  linear,  some- 
what deliquescent,  sulphur-yellow  then  becoming  green. 

It  is  very  easily  distinguished  from  the  preceding  species  by  its  bitter 
odor  and  taste,  light-yellow  flesh,  and  somewhat  deliquescent,  sulpJiur- 
yellow  then  green  gills.  It  forms  also  more  crowded  clusters.  There 
are  many  remarkable  varieties ;  one  robustior  ( more  robust ) ,  stem 
thickened  at  the  base,  another  nana  (dwarf),  both  on  the  ground. 

Cespitose  on  old  stumps  and  the  ground.  Extremely  common. 
Stevenson. 

Spores  elliptical,  7x4^  Massee;  6—7x4/1,  K.;  6x4^  W.G.S.;  ferrugin- 
ous purple,  6x4/i  Morgan. 

"It  is  very  usual  to  regard  this  as  a  poisonous  species,  but  possibly 
it  is  not  so  in  reality."  Cooke. 

West  Virginia,  1881,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina, 
Mcllvaine. 

A  very  common  species  appearing  in  October  and  lasting  until  well 
into  the  winter,  growing  in  large,  overlapping  masses  or  in  tufts  from 
old  stumps  or  roots,  and  about  trees  where  decay  has  begun.  Some- 
times solitary.  It  is  then  short-stemmed  and  sturdy.  There  are  sev- 
eral closely  allied  species.  To  know  the  one  from  the  other,  a  careful 
study  of  the  group  is  necessary.  (See  introduction  to  genus,  H. 
epixanthum,  H.  sublateritium,  H.  capnoides,  H.  elaeodes,  and  H.  per- 
plexum.)  Old  authors  give  it  as  bitter  and  poisonous.  The  bitter  is 
not  always  present.  Any  there  is  disappears  in  cooking.  It  is  not 
poisonous,  but  one  of  our  most  valuable  species.  I  have  eaten  it  since 
1 88 1.  A  little  lemon  juice  or  sherry  will  cover  the  slightly  saponaceous 
taste  sometimes  present.  The  caps  only  are  good.  It  makes  a  choice 
pickle  and  a  good  catsup. 

H.  epixan'thum  Fr.  Gr. — epixanthos,  yellowish-brown.  Pileus  2-3 
in.  broad,  light-yellow  or  becoming  pale,  the  disk  commonly  darker, 
fleshy,  moderately  thin,  convexo-plane,  obtuse  or  gibbous,  even,  slightly 
silky  then  becoming  smooth.  Flesh  white,  becoming  light-yellow.  Stem 

357 


Agaricaceae 

Hyphoioma.  about  8  in.  long,  3—4  lines  thick,  hollow,  attenuated  from  the  thickened 
base  or  equal,  floccose-fibrillose ,  pale  rust  color  or  becoming  dingy-brown 
below,  with  a  frosty  bloom  at  the  apex ;  veil  hanging  from  margin  of 
pileus,  white.  Gills  adnate,  crowded,  at  first  light  yellow-white,  at 
length  becoming  ash-colored,  not  deliquescent,  and  not  becoming  purple 
or  green. 

Strong  smelling,  odor  acid ;  extremely  variable  in  stature ;  not  hy- 
grophanous.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  7x4^  Massee. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina.  On  oak, 
chestnut  stumps  and  growing  from  tree  roots  in  ground.  October  to 
December.  Mcllvaine. 

(See  H.  perplexum,  H.  sublateritium  and  compare  descriptions.) 

This  species,  in  common  with  its  allies,  is  extremely  hard  to  deter- 
mine. When  growing  singly  from  roots  or  from  ground  heavily  charged 
with  decaying  wood,  it  is  a  sturdy,  solid  plant;  when  in  clusters  the 
stem  is  longer,  more  flexible  and  the  whole  character  of  the  plant  is 
modified.  Except  for  botanic  purposes  there  is  no  occasion  to  puzzle 
over  it.  It  is  in  every  way  an  excellent  and  useful  fungus. 

H.  disper'sus  Fr. — dispergo,  to  scatter.  Pileus  i-i/£  in.  broad, 
tawny-honey-color,  not  hygrophanous,  slightly  fleshy,  bell-shaped  then 
convex,  at  length  expanded,  even,  superficially  silky  round  the  margin 
with  the  veil,  or  squamulose,  otherwise  even  and  smooth.  Flesh  thin, 
a  little  paler  than  the  pileus.  Stem  2  in.  or  a  little  more  long,  2  lines 
thick,  tubed,  equal,  tense  and  straight,  tough,  fibrilloso- silky ,  somewhat 
rust-colored,  becoming  dingy-brown  at  the  base,  pale  at  the  apex. 
Gills  adnate,  thin,  ventricose,  broad,  3-4  lines,  crowded,  at  first  pallid- 
straw  color,  at  length  crowded,  obsoletely  green.  Fries. 

Gills  broader  than  H.  fascicularis,  etc.  Solitary,  scarcely  ever  ces- 
pitose.  On  pine  stumps  and  the  ground.  April  to  November. 

Spores  elliptical,  7x3-4^  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  in  pine  woods,  Curtis;  California,  H.  and  M.;  West 
Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  North  Carolina,  New  Jersey,  Mcllvaine. 

Difficult  to  distinguish  from  H.  fascicularis  when  growing  solitary. 
Its  edible  qualities  are  precisely  the  same. 

H.  elseo'des    Fr.    Gr. — an   olive;    Gr. — eidos,  appearance.      Pileus 

358 


Porphyrosporee 

brick-red  or  tan,  fleshy,  rather  plane,  somewhat  umbonate,  dry,  smooth,  Hyphoioma. 
opaque.     Flesh  yellow.      Stem  stuffed  then  hollow,  equal,  commonly 
slender,  incurved  or  flexuous,  fibrillose,  of  the  same  color  as  the  pileus, 
becoming   rust-color.      Gills   adnate,   crowded,   thin,  green  then   pure 
olivaceous. 

Cespitose.      Odor  bitter.      On  trunks  and  on  the  ground.     Fries. 

Cap  1-2  in.  across.  Stem  2-4  in.  long,  %-%  in.  thick,  stuffed 
then  hollow. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885,  Haddonfield,  N.  J.;  Pennsylvania.  On 
stumps,  roots  and  ground  in  woods,  etc.  Mcllvaine.  Not  reported 
elsewhere. 

Its  habit  is  the  same  as  H.  fascicularis,  to  which  it  is  closely  allied, 
and  to  me  seems  but  a  form  of  this  very  variable  species.  It  is  equally 
good. 

H.  sublateri'tium  Schaeff. — sub  and  later,  a  brick.  (Plate  XCVII, 
fig-  3»  P-  352-)  Pileus  2-3  in.  and  more  broad,  tawny-brick-red,  but 
paler  round  the  margin  and  covered  over  with  a  superficial,  somewhat 
silky,  whitish  cloudiness  (arising  from  the  veil),  fleshy,  convexo-plane, 
obtuse,  discoid,  dry,  even,  becoming  smooth.  Flesh  compact,  white, 
then  becoming  yellow.  Stem  3-4  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick,  stuffed, 
stout  and  firm,  commonly  manifestly  attenuated  downward,  rarely  equal, 
scaly-fibrillose ,  fibrils  pallid,  rust-colored  downward.  Cortina  superior, 
at  first  white,  at  length  becoming  black.  Gills  adnate,  more  or  less 
crowded  according  to  stature,  narrow,  at  first  dingy-yellowish  and  darker 
at  the  base,  then  sooty,  and  at  length  inclining  to  olivaceous. 

Spores  brownish  purple.  Somewhat  cespitose.  Stem  incurved  from 
position.  There  are  many  varieties:  B,  somewhat  solitary,  the  pileus 
and  stem,  which  is  thickened  at  the  base,  of  the  same  color,  reddish. 
C,  smaller,  pileus  light  yellowish,  the  hollow  stem  equal.  Schaeff. 

Var.  sqnamo'sum,  Cooke.  Pileus  convex,  bright  brick-red,  shading 
to  yellow  at  the  margin,  spotted  with  superficial  scales.  Flesh  very 
thick,  yellowish.  Gills  narrowish,  adnate.  Stem  elongated,  stout,  pale 
above,  rust-colored  below,  hollow,  veil  hanging  from  the  margin  when 
young. 

On  trunks.  A  very  beautiful  variety,  larger  and  more  robust  than 
the  typical  form.  Massee. 

Spores  6x3/x.  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  sooty-brown,  8x4/4  Massee 

359 


Agaricaceee 

Hyphoioma.  West  Virginia,  1881-1885;  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  densely  ces- 
pitose  on  stumps  and  roots.  October  to  long  after  frosts.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Dr.  Taylor,  1893.      Dept.  of  Agr.  Rep.  No.  5. 

H.  sublateritium  has  many  forms.  Both  Fries  and  Stevenson  indi- 
cate this  as  a  variable  species  and  my  own  observation  confirms  the 
truth  of  this. 

This  is  a  very  common  autumnal  species,  lasting  into  the  winter.  Old 
authors  give  it  as  bitter  and  very  poisonous.  I  tested  it  in  1881  and 
have  been  eating  it,  in  common  with  all  Hypholomas  I  have  found,  ever 
since.  At  times  it  is  bitter.  I  believe  this  to  be  due  to  the  passage  of 
larvae  through  the  flesh.  Unattacked  specimens  are  slightly  saponaceous 
to  the  taste  while  others  in  the  same  bunch  are  bitter. 

VlS'CIDI.     Pileus  viscid,  etc.      (None  known  to  be  edible.) 
Velutini.      Pileus  silky,  etc. 

H.  veluti'miS  Pers. — vellus,  a  fleece.  Velvety.  Pileus  fleshy,  thin, 
convex  or  expanded,  brittle,  minutely  tomentose-scaly,  becoming 
smooth,  hygrophanous,  yellow  with  the  disk  reddish.  Lamellae  rather 
broad,  attached,  tapering  toward  the  outer  extremity,  dark  brown  tinged 
with  red,  the  edge  whitish-beaded.  Stem  equal,  rather  slender,  hollow, 
fibrillose,  subconcolorous,  white-mealy  and  slightly  striate  at  the  top. 
Spores  black. 

Height  about  2  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  1-1.5  m- 

Roadsides.  Albany  Cemetery.  September.  The  pileus  sometimes 
cracks  transversely.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  6x8/x,  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  10x5/1*  Massee. 

Often  used  in  catsup.      Innocent  and  edible.      Cooke. 

West  Virginia.  1881-1885,  Pennsylvania,  West  Philadelphia,  Bart- 
ram's  Creek,  1887,  Mcllvaine. 

Var.  leiocepli alus  B.  and  Br.  (GV. — smooth;  Gr. — head,  from  its 
smooth  pileus).  Pileus  hygrophanous,  rugged,  smooth  except  at  the 
margin,  where  it  is  fibrillose,  pallid  as  is  the  stem,  whose  apex  is  mealy. 

Densely  cespitose,  much  smaller  than  the  common  form,  but  ap- 
parently a  mere  variety,  though  a  striking  one  from  its  smooth  but  very 
rugged  disk.  On  old  stumps.  Stevenson. 

New  York,  Peck,  23d  Rep.  ;  West  Virginia,  West  Philadelphia,  Bart- 
ram's  Creek,  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  September  to  November.  Mcllvaine. 

360 


Porphyrosporse 

Quantities  of  var.  leiocephalus  grow  in  the  West  Virginia  forests  on  Hyphoioma. 
stumps  and  on  the  ground  from  decaying  roots.      \%  in.  is  the  limit  of 
its   width.       Its  frequent  and  dense  clusters,   its  tenderness  and  deli- 
cacy of  flavor  make  it  a  favorite. 

H.  aggrega'tum  Pk. — aggrego,  to  grow  together.  Densely  cespitose. 
PileilS  thin,  convex  or  subcampanulate,  grayish-white,  obscurely  spotted 
with  appressed  brownish  fibrils.  Lamella?  subdistant,  rounded  behind, 
nearly  free,  at  first  whitish,  then  brown  or  blackish-brown  with  a  whitish 
edge.  Stem  rather  long,  hollow,  somewhat  woolly  or  fibrillose,  white. 
Spores  brown,  elliptical,  8x4-5^. 

Pileus  about  i  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  1.5-2  lines  thick. 

At  the  base  of  trees  and  stumps  in  woods.      Alcove.      September. 

The  cespitose  habit  and  obscurely  spotted  grayish-white  pileus  are 
marked  features  of  this  species.  From  H.  silvestre  the  species  may  be 
distinguished  by  its  smaller  size,  adnexed  or  nearly  free  lamellae  which 
have  no  rosy  tint,  and  by  its  very  cespitose  mode  of  growth.  Peck, 
46th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  about  trees  and  stumps.  September  to  November, 
1898-1899.  Mcllvaine.  Not  reported  elsewhere. 

The  caps  are  oyster-color.  Amateurs  accustomed  to  the  gayer  colors 
of  the  autumnal  Hypholomas  will  not  suspect  this  of  belonging  to  the 
genus,  until  the  color  of  the  spores  is  obtained. 

The  caps  are  fine. 

H.  lachrymabun'duni  Fr. — lachryma,  a  tear.  Pileus  2-3  in.  broad, 
whitish  when  young,  then  dingy-brown,  becoming  pale  around  the  mar- 
gin, truly  fleshy  but  not  compact,  convex,  obtuse,  scaly  with  hairs,  the 
innate  scales  darker.  Flesh  white.  Stem  2  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick, 
hollow,  somewhat  thickened  at  the  base,  scaly  with  fibrils,  becoming 
brownish-whitish.  Veil  separate,  clothed  with  fibers,  hanging  from  the 
pileus,  white.  Gills  adnate,  crowded,  3  lines  broad,  whitish  then 
brownish-purple,  edge  whitish  and  distilling  drops  in  wet  weather. 

Spores  brownish-purple.  From  mutual  pressure  the  caps  are  often 
irregular.  Very  cespitose,  firm.  Fries. 

Spores  brownish-purple,  9x41".  Massee. 

On  ground  and  on  trunks.     Truly  cespitose.      Smaller  than  H.  velu- 


Aguricaceae 

Hyphoioma.  tinus,  but  firmer,  truly  fleshy,  not  hygrophanous.  Bushy  pastures. 
Bethlehem.  October. 

Our  specimens  do  not  agree  in  all  respects  with  the  published  de- 
scription of  the  species.  The  pileus  is  sometimes  wholly  destitute  of 
scales  and  sometimes  densely  clothed  with  hairy,  erect  ones.  The  species 
is  manifestly  variable.  Peck,  3Oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

"  Like  H.  fascicularis  in  quality.  Intensely  irritant.  It  is  bound  with 
the  weight  of  its  own  guilt."  Hay. 

This  is  a  good  specimen  of  Hay's  comments.  H.  fascicularis  is  never 
irritant,  is  good  eating,  is  innocent. 

There  is  irony  in  the  comment  of  Dr.  Cooke:  "This  doubtful  spe- 
cies is  used  by  the  smaller  ketchup  makers." 

I  have  not  seen  this  species.  When  I  do  I  shall  eat  it  and  expect  to 
live. 

APPENDICULA'TI.     Pileus  hygrophanous,  smooth. 

H.  incer'tum  Pk.  (Plate  XCVIII.)  Pileus  fragile,  convex  or sub- 
campanulate,  then  expanded,  hygrophanous,  often  radiately  wrinkled, 
whitish  with  the  disk  yellowish,  the  thin  margin  sometimes  purplish- 
tinted,  often  wavy,  adorned  by  fragments  of  the  white  flocculent  fuga- 
cious veil.  Lamellae  close,  narrow,  whitish  then  rosy-brown,  the  edge 
often  uneven.  Stem  equal,  straight,  hollow,  easily  splitting,  whitish 
with  a  frosty  bloom  or  slightly  scurfy  at  the  top.  Spores  elliptical, 
purplish-brown,  8x5^*. 

Plant  gregarious  or  subcespitose,  2-3  in.  high.  Pileus  1-2  in. 
broad.'  Stem  1-2  lines  thick. 

Ground  among  bushes.     Green  Island  and  Sandlake.    June  and  July. 

The  veil  is  sometimes  so  strongly  developed  as  to  form  an  imperfect 
ring.  The  color  is  nearly  white  from  the  first.  Peck,  2Qth  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

As  the  name  indicates,  I  was  uncertain  whether  this  was  a  form  of  H. 
Candolleanum,  to  which  it  is  very  closely  related,  but  as  Fries  says  of 
that  "Gills  at  first  violaceous,"  and  as  our  plant  has  them  at  first  white 
or  whitish,  I  concluded  to  risk  the  uncertainty  on  a  new  species. 

I  have  seen  Central  Park,  New  York,  well  covered  with  it  in  May.  It 
is  also  common  in  the  vicinity  of  Boston.  Of  very  agreeable  flavor  and 
delicate  substance.  The  profusion  of  its  growth  compensates  for  its 
small  size.  Macadam. 

362 


I'LATE    XCVIII. 


IE 
"D 
O 

0 
^ 

> 


O 
m 
?o 
H 
C 


Porphyrosporae 

Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller;    Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,   in  great  clusters  between  Hyphoioma. 
railroad  ties  and  beside  track,  Mcllvaine. 
Tender.      One  of  the  best. 

H.  appendicilla'tum  Bull. — a  small  appendage.  From  the  veil  ad- 
hering to  margin  of  pileus.  (Plate  XCVII,  p.  352.)  Pileus  2-3  in. 
broad,  date-brown  then  tawny,  becoming  pale  yellowish  when  dry, 
fleshy-membranaceous,  thin,  ovate  then  expanded,  at  length  flattened, 
obtuse,  smooth,  when  dry  slightly  wrinkled,  somewhat  sprinkled  with 
atoms.  Stem  3  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick,  fistulose,  equal,  smooth, 
white,  pruinate  at  the  apex;  veil  fringing  the  margin  of  the  pileus, 
fugacious,  white.  Gills  somewhat  adnate,  crowded,  dry,  white  then 
flesh-colored,  at  length  dingy-brown. 

Densely  cespitose,  very  fragile  and  hygrophanous.  Much  thinner 
and  more  fragile  than  A.  Candolleanus.  It  may  be  safely  distinguished 
from  species  which  are  nearest  to  it  by  the  gills  being  whitish  then 
brownish-flesh  color. 

Var.  lana'tum,  A  curious  form,  densely  woolly  when  young,  traces 
of  the  woolly  coat  remaining  at  the  apex  when  the  pileus  is  fully  ex- 
panded. Sibbertoft.  B.  and  Br.,  1876.  Stevenson. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  pellucid,  6-8x3-4^  K.;  4x6/i  W.G.S.;  elliptical, 
5x2. 5 p  Massee. 

Angora,  West  Philadelphia,  October,  November,  December,  1897; 
Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  cespitose  and  gregarious  in  woods ' 
about  stumps.     Mcllvaine. 

"It  is  very  common  and  edible."     Farlow. 

At  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  October,  1898,  in  great  abundance.  When 
found  it  was  gregarious  in  large  patches  and  cespitose  on  stumps.  My 
identification  was  confirmed  by  Professor  Peck. 

It  dries  well,  and  retains  flavor  and  esculent  qualities.  Cooked  it  is 
among  the  best. 

H.  Candol'leanum  Fr. — After  DeCandolle.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad, 
date-brown  then  becoming  white,  the  top  somewhat  yellowish,  some- 
what fleshy,  acorn-shaped  then  bell-shaped,  soon  convex  and  at  length 
flattened,  obtuse  and  unequal,  smooth,  even.  Flesh  thin,  white.  Stem 
3  in.  long,  2-4  lines  thick,  fistulose,  solid  at  the  base,  somewhat  thick- 
ened, fibrillose,  white,  striate  at  the  apex;  veil  in  the  form  of  a  cortina, 

363 


Agaricaceas 

Hyphoioma.  web-like,  appendiculatc  (depending  from  the  margin  of  the  pileus), 
white,  at  length  becoming  dingy-brown.  Grills  rounded-adnexed,  then 
separating,  crowded,  violaceous  then  brownish-cinnamon,  the  edge  at 
first  whitish. 

Readily  distinguished  from  neighboring  species  by  the  gills  being  at 
first  beautifully  dark  violaceous,  never  flesh-colored.  Densely  cespitose, 
fragile,  very  hygrophanous.  Stevenson. 

Spores  elliptical,  8x4^  Massee. 

Edible,  often  used  in  catsup.      Cooke. 

A  species  variable  in  color  with  the  weather.  Its  gills  are  cream- 
colored  at  first,  then  purplish,  then  very  dark.  After  rain  the  fragile 
cap  often  turns  up  at  the  margin  and  splits. 

It  differs  somewhat  in  texture  from  other  Hypholomas,  being  more 
delicate  in  texture  and  substance.  It  is  excellent. 

H.  suba'qililum  Banning. — aquilus,  brownish,  tawny.  Pileus  brown, 
convex,  smooth,  hygrophanous,  often  shaded  into  ocher  at  margin,  veil 
delicate,  silk-like,  encircling  and  covering  the  marginal  extremities  of 
the  lamellae  but  forming  no  ring  on  the  stem.  Flesh  white,  turning 
umber  when  cut.  Lamellae  adnexed  or  nearly  free,  close,  forked,  um- 
.ber.  Stem  cespitose,  regular,  hollow,  silky,  white,  2-3  in.  long. 

Spores  brown,  4x5^.      Banning  MS. 

Druid  Hill  Park,  Baltimore,  Miss  Banning;  decaying  wood,  Adiron- 
dack mountains.  August  and  September.  New  York.  Peck,  45th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

H.  subaquilum  is  closely  allied  to  H.  appendiculatum,  but  is  dis- 
tinguished by  its  darker  colored  cap  and  gills. 

Its  edible  qualities  are  the  same.     It  is  among  the  best. 


364 


PSILO'CYBE  Fr. 

Gr. — naked;    head. 


Porphyrosporse 


Pileus  more  or  less  fleshy,  smooth,  margin  at  first  incurved.     Gills  PsUocybe. 
becoming  brownish  or  purple.       Stem  somewhat  cartilaginous,  rigid  or 
tough,  tubular,  hollow  or  stuffed,  often  rooting.      Veil  absent  or  rudi- 
mentary, never  forming  a  membrane.      Spores  purple,  purple-brown  or 
slate-color. 

Generally  growing  on  the  ground,  gregarious,  sometimes  cespitose. 

Psilocybe  is  analogous  in  form  to  Collybia,  Leptonia  and  Naucoria, 
which  are  distinguished  by  their  spore  colors.  Separated  from  Psathyra 
by  the  incurved  margin  of  the  pileus. 

But  one  species  of  Psilocybe  is  herein  given  as  edible.  Of  it,  alone, 
the  writer  has  had  opportunity  to  eat  meals.  Several  others  of  the 
species  have  been  found  by  him  and  tested  in  small  quantity.  They  are 
all  of  good  texture,  substance  and  flavor,  though  most  are  small.  He 
is  of  the  opinion  that  increased  testing  will  prove  the  entire  genus  edi- 
ble. Nothing  can  or  should  be  prognosticated  about  a  toadstool,  but 
the  indications  are  all  in  favor  of  Psilocybe. 

P.  spadi'cea  Schaeff. — spadiceus,  date-brown.    Pileus  thin,  submem- 


(Plate  XCIX.) 


branaceous,  hemispherical,  then  con- 
vex or  expanded,  smooth,  hygro- 
phanous,  pale  grayish -brown  and 
striatulate  when  moist,  white  or  yel- 
lowish when  dry.  Gills  narrow,  close, 
attached,  easily  separating  from  the 
stem,  at  first  whitish,  then  brown, 
tinged  with  flesh-color.  Stem  straight, 
equal,  hollow,  smooth,  white. 

Height  1-2  in.,  breadth  of  pileus 
1-1.5  m-  Stem  1-2  lines  thick. 

Grassy  ground  in  yards  and  fields. 
Albany.  June.  Gregarious  or  cespi- 
tose. The  pileus  is  fragile,  the  spores 
are  brown.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Spores  brown,  9x47*  Massee;  purplish  brown,  7.6x5.1^  Morgan. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  October,  November,  December,  1896.      In  large 
patches  and  where  stumps  had  been  taken  from  the  ground.    Mcllvaine. 

365 


PSILOCYBE  SPADICEA. 
Two-thirds  natural  size. 


Agaricaceae 

Psiiocybe.       Var.  Jiygro  philus  Fr.      Gr. — moist;   loving. 

Pileus  tawny,  then  clay-color.  Stem  4-6  in.  long,  rather  fusiform, 
rooting.  Gills  emarginate  with  a  deeply  decurrent  line;  at  length 
umber-brown. 

Var.  polycepli  alus  Fr. — polus,  many;  cephale,  head. 

Densely  crowded.  Stem  thinner,  flexuous.  Gills  nearly  free,  at 
length  tawny-umber. 

The  plant  is  tender,  cooks  easily  and  is  of  fine  flavor. 

P.  semilancea'ta  Fr. — semi,  half;  lancea,  a  spear.  Pileus  %  in. 
high,  not  broad,  various  in  color,  becoming  yellow,  green,  dingy-brown, 
somewhat  membranaceous,  acutely  conical,  almost  cuspidate,  never  ex- 
panded, but  the  margin  when  young  at  first  bent  inward,  covered  with  a 
Pellicle  which  is  viscous  and  separable  in  wet  weather,  slightly  striate 
chiefly  round  the  margin.  Stem  as  much  as  3  in.  long,  scarcely  i  line 
thick,  tubular  and  containing  a  pith,  equal,  more  frequently  flexuous, 
smooth,  capable  of  being  twisted  round  the  finger,  smooth,  becoming 
pale;  furnished  with  a  veil  when  young.  Gills  ascending  into  the  sum- 
mit of  the  cone,  adnexed,  almost  linear,  crowded,  becoming  purple- 
black.  Fries. 

Gregarious,  very  tough.  Pastures  and  roadsides,  etc.  Common. 
August  to  November.  Stevenson. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  9-16x4-9^1  K.;  14x9/4  W.G.S. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  23  ;  No  via  Scotia,  Somers. 

Var.  ccerules  cens  Cooke — becoming  blue.  Base  of  stem  turning  indigo- 
blue. 

Not  common  in  America,  but  frequently  found.  According  to  M. 
C.  Cooke — a  careful  authority — P.  semilanceata  has  a  dangerous  reputa- 
tion. It  is  said  to  have  proved  fatal  to  children  when  eaten  raw.  It  is 
not  deleterious  when  cooked. 


Porphyrosporse 


PSA'THYRA  Fr. 

Gr. — friable. 


Veil  none  or  only  universal,  and 
floccoso-fibrillose.  Stem  somewhat 
cartilaginous,  fistulose  with  a  tube, 
polished,  fragile.  PileilS  conical  or  bell- 
shaped,  membranaceous ,  the  margin  at 
the  first  straight  and  adpressed  to  the 
stem.  Gills  becoming  purple  or  brown- 
ish. Slender,  fragile,  hygrophanous. 

Some  of  the  last  species  of  Hypho- 
loma  and  Psilocybe  are  very  closely 
allied  to  them.  The  Coprinarii  are 
readily  distinguished  by  the  gills  being 
white  or  ash-color,  then  black,  not 
dusky-brown  nor  becoming  purple. 

Psathyra  corresponds  with  Mycena, 
Nolanea,  Galera  and  Psathyrella.  All 
the  species  grow  on  the  ground  or  on 
trunks.  Stevenson. 

But  four  American  species  reported. 


(Plate  C.) 


Psathyra. 


PSATHYRA  GYROFLEXA. 
Natural  size.     (After  Massee.) 
Omitted  from  Index  to  Species. 

Small  and  unimportant. 


DECONICA. 

Stem  tough;   margin  of  Pileus  at  first  incurved.     Gills  subtriangu- 
larly  decurrent.      Corresponds  with  Omphalia,  Eccilia,  Tubaria. 
Few  American  species.     Small  and  unimportant. 


367 


Agaricaceaa 


«;,»»• 

o.-.w.t  . 


F.     MELANOS'POBJE  (spores  black).    Gr.—  black;  GV.—  seed. 


'ARIOUS  as  are  the  spore  colors  in  this  series  (in 
its  broadest  sense),  there  is  an  entire  absence  of 
brown  and  purple  shades  in  the  black  spores  of  four 
of  the  genera  belonging  to  this  group  or  series.  In 
Gomphidius  the  spores  are  dingy-olivaceous.  It 
is  an  outsider  affiliating  with  thoroughbreds  because 
of  more  technical  congeniality  than  other  genera 
afford.  Like  comets  in  the  universe,  it  has  no 

home.  The  singular  genus  Montagnites  (of  which  but  one  species  has 
been  found  in  America,  and  that  in  Texas)  has  the  relationship  of 
spore-color.  Panaeolus,  Anellaria,  Psathyrella,  when  young,  have  gills 
free  from  each  other;  Coprinus,  in  early  life,  presents  them  pressed 
tightly  together;  as  the  plants  age  and  the  spores  ripen,  the  entire  gill 
structure  becomes  black  and  dissolves  into  an  inky  fluid,  the  color  of 
which  is  due  to  the  spores. 

The  species  are  all  of  delicate  body,  and  many  of  them  add  gener- 
ously to  table  luxuries. 


COPRI'NUS  Pers. 
Gr. — dung. 

Coprinus.  Pileus  separate  from  the  stem.  Gills  membranaceous,  at  first  closely 
pressed  together,  cohering,  at  length  melting  into  a  black  fluid.  Trama 
obsolete.  Spores  oval,1  even,  black. 

The  extreme  closeness  of  the  gills  and  their  entire  deliquescence  into 
a  fluid,  black  from  the  spores,  sharply  define  this  genus  and  separate  it 
from  all  others.  At  first  the  form  is  oval  or  cylindrical;  most  are 
furnished  with  a  downy  or  scurfy  veil  often  adhering  to  the  pileus, 
sometimes  forming  an  adhering  volva  at  the  base  of  the  stem.  Nearly 
all  are  ephemeral,  many  completely  disappearing  in  a  day. 

Cystidia  (sterile  cells)  of  large  size  are  frequent  on  the  gills  of  many 
species. 

368 


MELANQSPQRAE. 


PSATHYRELLA. 


MONTAGNITES. 


CHART  OF  GENERA  ix  BLACK-SPORED  SERIES — MELAXOSPORAE,  PAGE  368 


Melanosporae 

The  majority  grow  on  richly  manured  ground  or  dung,  some  on  rotten  Copriuus. 
wood   and   other  materials       Bolbitius,   the   only    ally,    has   the  same 
ephemeral  existence,  and  grows  in  similar  situations,  but  the  gills  only 
soften  (not  melting)  and  the  spores  are  somewhat  rust-colored. 

The  blackening  of  the  gills  is  not  a  process  of  decay,  but  is  due  to 
the  growth  of  the  spores,  and  the  plant  is  still  (before  deliquescence) 
perfectly  edible  although  not  so  inviting  in  appearance  as  before. 

Species  of  Coprinus  are  very  common  and  are  easily  recognized  by 
the  deliquescent  gills  which,  when  mature,  stain  the  fingers  black. 

In  "Once  upon  a  Time,"  when  country  people  made  their  own  writ- 
ing inks,  the  convenient  Coprinus  gave  its  juices  for  this  purpose.  A 
little  corrosive  sublimate  added  to  the  boiled  and  strained  fluid  pre- 
vented it  from  molding. 

With  few  exceptions  the  species  are  small.  They  are  tender,  of  real 
mushroom  flavor  and  highly  enjoyable.  They  make  a  thin,  well  flavored 
catsup,  but  are  better  used  to  give  flavor  to  their  less  favored  brethren. 

They  stew  in  from  two  to  fifteen  minutes,  depending  upon  the  solidity 
of  the  species. 

ANALYSIS  OF  THE  TRIBES. 

A.     PELLICULOSI  (pellicula,  a  thin  skin).     Page  370. 

Gills  covered  above  with  a  fleshy  or  membranaceous  skin,  hence  the 
pileus  does  not  split  along  the  lines  of  the  gills,  but  becomes  lacerated 
with  the  edges  turned  upward. 

*  Comati — coma,  hair.  Furnished  with  a  ring  formed  from  the  free 
margin  of  the  volva.  The  skin  of  the  pileus  torn  into  innate  scales. 

*  Atramentarii — atramentum,  ink.     Ring  imperfect.     Volva  absent. 
Pileus  dotted  with  minute  innate  scales. 

*  Picacei — pica,  a  magpie.      Universal  veil  downy,  at  first  continu- 
ous then  broken  up  into  superficial  scales  forming  patches  on  the  pileus. 
f  Tomentosi — tomentum,  down.       Pileus  at  first  covered  with  a 
loose  hairy  down,  becoming  torn  into  distinct  scales,  at  length  disap- 
pearing.     Ring  absent. 

*  Micacei — mico,  to  glitter.      Pileus  at  first  covered  with  minute 
glistening  scales,  soon  disappearing.      Ring  none. 
******  Glabrati.      Pileus  smooth.     Veil  absent. 
24  369 


Agaricaceee 

B.     VELIFORMES  (velum,  a.  veil;  forma,  form).     Page  380. 

Coprinus.  Pileus  very  thin  without  a  skin,  at  length  opening  into  furrows  along 
the  backs  of  the  gills  and  becoming  folded  in  furrows.  Stem  thin,  hol- 
low. Gills  wasting  away  into  thin  lines. 

*  Cyclodei.     Gr. — a  circle;  appearance.     Stem  with  a  ring  or  volva. 

**  Lanatuli — lanatus,  woolly.  Pileus  covered  with  superficial  woolly 
floccules,  at  length  disappearing.  Ringless. 

***  Furfurelli — furfttreus,  branny.      Pileus  mealy  or  scurfy.      Gills 
generally  attached  to  a  collar  at  the  apex  of  the  stem.      Ringless. 
.  ****  Hemerobii.      Gr. — living  a  day.     Pileus  always  smooth. 

None  known  to  be  edible. 

A.     PELLICULO'SI.     Cap  becoming  torn,  edge  turning  upward,  etc. 
*  Comati.     Furnished  with  a  ring,  etc. 

C.  COma'tus  Fr. — coma,  hair.  (Plate  CII.)  Pileus  2-7  in.  high, 
white,  fleshy,  at  first  oblong,  becoming  bell-shaped,  seldom  expanded, 
when  in  mature  deliquescing  state,  splitting  at  the  margin  along  the  line 
of  the  gills,  the  cuticle,  except  upon  the  apex,  separating  into  shaggy, 
often  concentric  scales,  at  times  yellowish,  at  others  tinged  with  pur- 
plish-black. Gills  free  from  the  stem,  crowded  and  at  first  cohering, 
broad,  white  then  tinged  with  pink  or  salmon  color,  then  purple  to 
black  and  dissolving  into  ink.  Stem  up  to  10  in.  long,  up  to  %  in. 
thick,  attenuated  upward,  most  part  concealed  within  the  cap,  hollow, 
but  with  spider-web  threads  within,  smooth  or  fibrillose,  white  or  lilac- 
white,  easily  pulling  out  of  cap,  brittle.  Ring  thin,  torn,  sometimes 
entire  and  movable. 

On  rich  soil,  lawns,  gardens,  roads,  dumps,  especially  where  ashes 
have  been  placed.  Solitary  or  in  large  dense  clusters.  August  until 
after  frost,  but  it  is  occasionally  found  during  the  spring  months. 

Spores  elliptical,  black,  i3-i8/i  long  Peck.  Almost  black,  elliptical, 
i3-i8x7-8/x.  Massee;  1 1-13x6-8^  K.;  15x8;*  W.G.S. 

Var.  brev'iceps  Pk.  Pileus  before  expansion  subovate,  shorter  and 
broader  than  in  the  typical  form,  1.5-2.5  in.  high.  Dumping  ground. 
Albany.  November.  H.  Neiman.  Peck,  49th  Rep. 

Coprinus  comatus  is  common  to  the  United  States.  In  its  perfection 
it  is  a  stately  and  beautiful  plant.  I  have  seen  it  with  the  oblong  cap 

370 


PLATE  CII. 


Photographed  by  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist. 

COPRINUS  COMATUS. 


Melanosporae 

eight  inches  long,  but  its  usual  height  is  from  2-4  in.      It  occurs  after  Coprmus. 
hard  rain  and  often  in  the  most  unexpected  places.      It  is  a  rather  do- 
mestic species,  usually  in  troops,  but  often  in   clusters  of  from  five  to 
fifty  individuals.      I   have  seen  it  lift  firmly  sodded  ground  about  rail- 
road stations,  and  again,  bulging  the  surface  of  gardens  like  mole-hills. 

There  are  toadstools  of  higher  flavor,  but  not  one  of  greater  delicacy. 
In  this  C.  comatus  is  not  excelled  from  its  earliest  stage  until  fully 
ripened.  It  is  everywhere  commended. 

Lafayette  B.  Mendel,  in  American  Journal  of  Physiology,  gives  the 
following  analysis : 

The  specimens  were  freshly  gathered  and  had  not  yet  turned  "  inky." 
They  varied  very  widely  in  size,  thirty-six  mushrooms  weighing  1485 
grams,  of  which  980  grams  belonged  to  the  caps  (pileus)  and  505 
grams  to  the  stems.  The  average  weight  of  a  fresh  specimen  was  thus: 

Pileus 27  grams 

Stem 14 

Total  weight 41 

A  specimen  which  had  attained  the  average  growth  weighed : 

Pileus 43  grams 

Stem 25 

Total  weight 68 

An  analysis  yielded  the  following  results : 

Water 92-T9  per  cent. 

Total  solids 7.81 

The  dry  substance  contained  : 

Total  nitrogen 5.79  per  cent. 

Extractive  nitrogen 3.87 

Protein  nitrogen 1.92 

Ether  extract 3.3 

Crude  fiber 7.3 

Ash 12.5 

Material  soluble  in  85  per  cent,  alcohol 56.3 

C.  SOboli'feruS  Fr.  Pileus  iK-2&  in.  across,  subcylindrical,  then 
oval  bell-shaped,  lower  half  of  pileus  usually  undulate  but  not  furrowed 
or  striate,  disk  obtuse,  usually  depressed,  distinctly  scaly,  dingy  white, 
toward  the  apex  tinged  with  pale  brown,  scales  darker.  Flesh  very 
thin.  Gills  free,  tapering  toward  each  end,  %  in.  or  more  broad, 
crowded,  pale  then  blackish.  Stem  5-8  in.  long,  K  in.  thick  at  the 

371 


Agaricacese 

Coprinus.  base,  slightly  attenuated  upward,  silky-white,  stuffed;  toward  the  base 
there  is  a  depressed  zone  caused  by  the  edge  of  the  pileus  when  young. 
King  fugacious.  Spores  elliptical,  15x7^. 

Amongst  grass  near  to  trunks,  buried  wood,  etc.  A  very  large  and 
beautiful  species,  distinguished  from  Coprinus  atramentarius,  its  nearest 
ally,  by  the  larger  size  of  every  part,  the  costate  (ribbed)  or  waved 
lower  portion  of  the  pileus,  the  truncate,  depressed  disk,  with  distinct 
squamules,  the  whitish  color  of  the  pileus,  and  the  imperfectly  hollow  or 
stuffed  stem. 

Spores  elliptical,  15x7/4  Massee. 

Almshouse  grounds,  Philadelphia.  On  maple  roots  in  grass-grown 
places,  May,  1897—1898.  Mcllvaine.  Not  previously  noted  in  United 
States. 

C.  soboliferus  is  a  substantial  food-giving  species,  very  heavy  for  its 
size.  It  grows  singly  and  in  clusters  and  will  immediately  attract  atten- 
tion, wherever  found.  It  is  of  fine  flavor  and  substance.  Cook  at  once. 

C.  OVa'tus  (Schaeff. )  Fr. — ovum,  an  egg.  Pileus  white,  somewhat 
membranaceous,  at  the  first  egg-shaped  and  densely  imbricated  with 
thick  spreading  concentric  scales,  covered  with  an  even  hood  at  the  apex, 
then  expanded,  striate.  Stem  3-4  in.  long,  solid  at  the  base,  rooting, 
otherwise  hollow,  with  spider-web  threads  within,  attenuated  upward, 
downy,  shining  white.  Ring  not  very  conspicuous  and  soon  vanishing. 
Gills  free,  remote,  slightly  ventricose,  at  the  first  somewhat  naked  and 
remaining  long  shining  white,  at  length  timber-blackish,  never  becoming 
purple. 

Smaller,  thinner,  less  handsome  than  C.  comatus.  For  the  most  part 
solitary.  Fries. 

Spores  1 1-12x7-8/4  Massee. 

On  rich  ground,  dumps,  etc.      Same  habitat  as  C.  comatus. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  North  Carolina,  New  Jersey.  Mcll- 
vaine. 

So  closely  allied  to  C.  comatus  that  it  is  with  difficulty  distinguished 
from  it.  However,  its  edible  qualities  are  the  same,  and  into  these  the 
name  does  not  enter. 

C.  sterquili'nus  Fr. — sterquilinium ,  a  dunghill.  Pileus  about  2  in. 
across  when  expanded,  conical,  then  expanded,  sulcate  more  than  hali 

372 


PLATE  CIII. 


on 
o  o 

•fl  -0 
B  £• 

5  3 

d  c2 
cc  oi 

la 


Melanosporse 

way  from  margin  to  disk,  at  first  villous  or  silky,  disk  rather  fleshy  with  Coprinus. 
rough  scales,  silvery-gray,  tinged  with  brown  at  the  apex.  Flesh  thin. 
Gills  free,  ventricose,  about  2  lines  broad,  pale  then  umber-purple. 
Stem  4—6  in.  high,  slightly  attenuated  upward,  white,  fibrillose,  hollow, 
thickened  base  solid,  and  booted  for  about  an  inch  from  the  base,  mar- 
gin of  sheath  ending  in  a  free  border  or  ring. 

On  dung.  A  fine  large  species  known  by  the  scaly  apex  of  the  pi- 
leus,  the  basal  portion  of  the  stem  surrounded  by  a  volva-like,  adnate 
structure  with  a  free  upper  margin.  The  stem  soon  becomes  black  when 
bruised.  Base  of  stem  not  rooting  but  abrupt,  and  furnished  with  a  few 
white  fibers.  Massee. 

Edible,  Cooke,  1891  ;    also  Leuba. 

Nova  Scotia,  Dr.  Somers. 

This  species  is  not  reported  as  found  in  the  United  States, 

**Atramentarii.      Ring  imperfect,  etc. 

C.  atramentarius  (Bull.)  Fr. — atramentum,  ink.  (Plate  CIII,  fig. 
i,  p.  372.)  Pileus  i%-4  in.  across,  ovate,  expanding,  grayish,  lead- 
color  or  grayish-brown,  with  occasionally  a  few  obscure  scales  on  disk, 
often  covered  with  bloom  ;  margin  ribbed,  sometimes  notched,  soft,  ten- 
der. Gills  free,  ventricose,  up  to  %  in.  broad,  crowded  and  at  first 
cohering  and  white  with  white  floccose  edges,  then  becoming  black  and 
dissolving  into  ink.  Stem  up  to  5  in.  long,  up  to  >£  in.  thick,  smooth, 
whitish,  hollow,  at  first  spindle-shaped,  then  attenuated  upward,  with 
more  or  less  distinct  ring  near  base. 

Spores  subcylindrical,  large  cystidia  numerous,  I2x6/*  Massee/  9-10 
x6/A  K.;  9x5/x  W.G.S.;  8-io/t  long  Peck. 

Indiana,  H .  I.  Miller;  Harrisburg,  Pa.,  Dr.  J.  H.  Fager;  West  Vir- 
ginia, Mcllvaine. 

The  stem  is  obscurely  banded  within,  by  which  it  may  be  recognized 
with  certainty. 

It  grows  singly  or  in  clusters  of  many  individuals  on  rich  ground, 
whether  lawns,  gardens,  gutter  sides,  or  in  woods,  but  not  on  dung.  I 
know  of  a  fine  cluster  growing  year  after  year  on  a  much-decayed  pear- 
stump.  Occasionally  it  appears  in  the  spring  months,  but  is  common 
during  the  summer  and  autumn  after  rains,  and  from  its  first  appearance 

373 


Agaricacese 

Coprinus.  it  occurs  in  successive  crops  until  stopped  by  severe  frost.  It  is  com- 
mon in  Europe  and  over  the  United  States. 

The  flavor  is  higher  than  that  of  C.  comatus.  It  should  be  cooked 
as  soon  as  gathered,  and  kept  in  a  cool  place  until  needed. 

Analysis  shows  the  following: 

Two  separate,  freshly-gathered  lots  of  this  species  were  examined. 
The  one  («)  contained  six  young  small  specimens  weighing  5.5  grams, 
or  .9  gram  each;  the  other  (<$>)  contained  eight  mushrooms  weighing 
12  grams,  or  1.5  grams  each.  An  analysis  gave: 

a.  b. 

Water 92-31  percent.    94.42  percent. 

Total  solids 7.69  5.58 

The  dry  substance  contained: 

Total  nitrogen 4.68  4.77 

Ether  extract 3.1  5.7 

Crude  fiber 9.3  

Ash 16.8  20.1 

Lafayette  B.  Mendel  in  American  Journal  of  Physiology. 

C.  fusces'cens  (Schaeff.)  Fr. — fuscus,  dark  or  swarthy.  Pileus  I— 
l/€  in.  across,  submembranaceous,  ovate,  expanded,  dull,  disk  rather 
fleshy,  even  or  cracked  into  squamules,  grayish-brown,  disk  reddish. 
Gills  adfixed,  blackish-umber.  Stem  4-5  in.  long,  about  K  in.  thick, 
equal,  fragile,  hollow,  subfibrillose.  Ring  indistinct  or  absent,  whitish. 
Mas  see. 

Smaller  and  more  slender  than  Coprinus  atramentarius.  Pileus 
brownish-gray,  disk  becoming  reddish,  not  sprinkled  with  micaceous 
particles,  but  at  first  covered  with  a  mealy  bloom.  Gills  adnexed, 
attenuated  from  the  stem  to  the  margin,  deliquescent.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  pointed  at  the  ends,  iox6/*  Massee;   iox5/x.  W.G.S. 

Solitary  and  in  tufts.      On  stumps,  trunks,  etc.     May  to  October. 

West  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  Mcllvaine. 

C.  fuscescens  is  tender,  delicate  and  of  excellent  flavor.  In  this  it 
ranks  with  C.  atramentarius 

C.  macro'spoms  Pk.  Pileus  ovate,  then  expanded,  rimose-striate 
(cracked  in  lines),  obscurely  floccose-squamulose,  white,  the  small  even 
brownish  disk  scaly.  Lamellae  crowded,  free,  white  then  black.  Stem 

374 


Melanosporae 


COPRINUS    MACROSPORUS. 

Enlarged  one-third. 


glabrous,  white,  with  traces  of  an  annulus  (ring)  near  the  thickened  or  Coprinus. 
subbulbous  base. 

Spores  very  large,  elliptical,  20— 
20.5  long,  12-16/4  broad.  (Plate  CIV.) 

Plant  cespitose,  2-3  in.  high.  Pi- 
leus  1-2  in.  broad.  Stem  I  line 
thick. 

Ground  in  open  fields.  Ticonder- 
oga.  August. 

The  prominent  characters  of  this 
species  are  the  cracked  pileus,  squam- 
ose  disk,  free  lamellae  and  large 
spores.  In  its  early  state  it  resembles 
some  species  of  Lepiota.  It  seems 
to  be  intermediate  between  the  sec- 
tions Atramentarii  and  Micacei.  Peck, 
3istRep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Found  in  quantity  at  Mt.  Gretna, 
Pa.  August  to  September,  1898, 
growing  among  old  stable  bedding 
on  parade  ground. 

C.  macrosporus  is  an  excellent  species,  higher  in  flavor  than  any  other 
Coprinus. 

***Pica'cei.      Universal  downy  veil,  etc. 

C.  pica'ceus  (Bull.)  Fr.  Pileus  2-2^  in.  across,  membranaceous, 
ovato-bell-shaped,  striate  up  to  the  disk,  smoky-black,  variegated  with 
large,  irregular,  superficial  white  patches.  Gills  free,  %  in.  or  more 
broad,  ventricose,  grayish-black.  Stem  5-6  in.  long,  base  bulbous, 
abrupt,  otherwise  equal,  %—%  in.  thick,  white,  hollow,  fragile,  smooth. 
Spores  elliptical,  apiculate,  14x8/4;  cystidia  large,  numerous.  Massee. 

Decaying  trunks  or  branches  of  trees  in  woods.  Lyndonville.  June. 
Fairman. 

The  form  here  referred  to  this  species  differs  somewhat  from  the 
description  of  the  type  in  being  smaller,  in  having  no  bulb  to  the  stem 
and  in  having  smaller  spores.  It  is  probably  the  "smaller  variety 
growing  on  rotten  wood"  noticed  by  Stevenson  in  his  British  Fungi.  I 

375 


Agaricaceae 


have  seen  the  true  form  of  the  species  from  Kansas.  The  New  York 
plant  seems  to  me  to  be  worthy  of  distinctive  designation,  at  least  as  a 
variety,  and  I  call  it 

Var.  ebulbo'sus.  Plant  smaller.  Stem  destitute  of  a  bulb.  Spores 
8-iox5)U,.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Minnesota,  Johnson,  1897;  Kansas,  Cragin,  1884;  Wisconsin,  Bundy; 
Nebraska,  Clements. 

Edible.     Leuba. 

Large  quantities  grew  on  rotting  chestnut  and  oak  rails  at  Mt.  Gretna, 
Pa.,  from  June  to  August,  1899.  It  is  strong  and  unpleasant. 

****Tomento'si.     Pileus  at  first  veiled  with  a  loose  hairy  veil. 


(Plate  CV.) 


C.  fimeta'rius  Fr. — fimetum,    a  dunghill.     PileilS    1-2    in.    across, 

membranaceous,  thin,  at  first  cylindrical ', 
soon  conical,  the  edge  at  length  revolute  and 
torn  at  the  margin,  when  young  everywhere 
covered  with  floccose-squarrose  white  scales 
(from  the  universal  veil),  which  separate 
from  the  vertex  toward  »the  circumference, 
at  length  naked,  longitudinally  cracked, 
but  not  opening  into  furrows,  the  vertex 
which  remains  entire,  livid.  Stem  about 
3  in.  long,  2—3  lines  and  more  thick,  hol- 
low, fragile,  thickened  and  solid  at  the  base, 
attenuated  upward,  shining  white  and 
downy  with  squamules  of  the  same  color. 
Gills  free,  reaching  the  stem,  at  first  ven- 
tricose,  then  linear,  flexuous,  black.  Stem 
when  young  curt  and  firmer.  Fries. 

Spores  spheroid-ellipsoid  ,15-1 8x9- 1 2/x 
K.;  15x9/4  W.G.S.;  12-14x7-8/4  Massee. 
Sometimes  there  is  a  root  as  long  as  the 

stem.     M.J.B.      Common  on  dung  heaps  in  successive  crops.     Spring 
to  autumn. 

Var.  pulla'tus.     Pileus  with  adpressed  scales  and  tomentose,  soon 
naked,  brownish,  then  blackish.      Stem  equal,  becoming  smooth. 
On  dung.      Clustered.      Stature  of  the  type. 

376 


COPRINUS    FIMETARIUS. 


Melanosporee 

Var.  cinereus.     Pileus  membranaceous,  floccosely  mealy,  then  naked,  Coprinos. 
ashy-gray.      Stem  subequal,  rootless,  hollow  to  the  base,  often  twisted. 
Spores  12-8/t. 

On  dung  and  rich  soil. 

Var.  macrorhi'za.  Pileus  at  first  with  feathery  squamules.  Stem 
short,  hairy,  rooting,  sometimes  more  or  less  marginately  subbulbous. 
Spores  13-14x8-9^. 

On  dung.  Pileus  pale  and  smaller  than  in  the  typical  form,  stem 
shorter,  with  a  more  or  less  elongated  rooting  base.  Berkeley. 

Of  this  very  variable  species  there  is  a  small  form  growing  on  de- 
cayed wood  in  woods.  It  has  the  spores  rather  smaller  than  in  the 
type,  they  being  10-1  i/u.  long,  Syu.  broad.  It  might  be  designated  Var. 
silvi'cola.  Peck,  43d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885,  May  to  October.     Mcllvaine, 

Common  to  the  United  States.  Of  excellent  flavor  and  tender.  It 
must  be  cooked  at  once. 

C.  tomento'sus  (Bull.)  Yr.—tomentum,  pubescence.  Pileus  very 
thin,  at  first  oblong-oval  and  floccose-scaly,  soon  bell-shaped,  naked, 
closely  striate,  grayish-brown  or  blackish-brown,  often  with  a  leaden 
hue,  finally  expanded,  the  disk  smooth,  reddish  or  ochraceous-brown, 
the  margin  turned  upwards  and  much  split  or  lacerated.  Lamellae 
closely  crowded,  narrow,  free,  white  then  pinkish,  finally  black.  Stem 
white,  tall,  fragile,  tapering  upward,  finely  floccose-squamulose,  hollow, 
sometimes  with  a  large  tap  root.  Plant  gregarious  or  cespitose. 

Height  3-6  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  6-18  lines. 

Very  variable  in  size  and  color.  The  covering  of  the  pileus  is  easily 
rubbed  off.  It  soon  disappears  and  the  plant  quickly  decays,  seldom 
continuing  through  the  day.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  about  old  picketing  places  in  camp  grounds.  Prof. 
M.  W.  Easton,  July,  1898. 

West  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  May  to 
September,  on  dung,  rich  ground,  gardens  and  in  woods.  Mcllvaine. 

Very  delicate ;  of  strong  mushroom  flavor.  It  is  common,  and  can 
usually  be  collected  in  numbers.  It  is  of  little  food  value  in  itself,  but 
yields  an  excellent  flavor  to  anything  it  is  cooked  with.  It  must  be 
cooked  as  soon  as  gathered. 

377 


Agaricaceae 

Coprinus.  C.  Ili'veilS  Fr. — nix,  snow.  PileilS  white,  1-2  in.  across,  thin,  ovate 
then  bell-shaped,  margin  at  length  turned  upward,  split  or  covered  with 
a  dense  white,  mealy  or  downy  covering,  slightly  pink.  Gills  adnexed, 
narrow,  crowded,  at  first  cohering,  white  then  pinkish,  then  black. 
Stem  at  first  short,  then  up  to  4  in.,  slender,  attenuated  upward,  cov- 
ered with  white  down,  fragile,  hollow. 

Spores  i6x.ii—i3pMasseef'  10x12/4  W.G.S. 

Common  on  dung  and  dung  heaps,  clustered.     May  to  frost. 

West  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey.  Mcll- 
vaine. 

Very  variable  in  size,  but  clearly  distinguished  by  its  snow-white  color 
and  adnexed  gills.  Like  all  of  the  thin,  delicate  species  of  this  genus 
there  is  little  substance  left  after  cooking,  but  the  savory  flavor  is  im- 
parted to  the  cooking  medium. 

*****  Mica'cei.     Pileus  at  first  covered  with  minute,  glistening 

scales,  etc. 

C.  micaceus  (Bull.)  Fr. — mica,  grain,  granular.  (Plate  CIII,  fig. 
2,  p.  372.)  Pileus  thin,  ovate,  then  bell-shaped,  with  the  margin 
more  or  less  revolute,  wavy,  splitting,  closely  striate,  with  a  few  minute 
scales  and  sparkling  atoms,  or  naked,  varying  in  color  from  whitish- 
ochraceous  to  livid-brown,  generally  darker  when  moist  or  old.  Gills 
rather  narrow,  crowded,  white  then  pinkish,  finally  black.  Stem  slender, 
fragile,  easily  splitting,  slightly  silky,  white,  hollow,  often  twisted. 
Plant  mostly  cespitose. 

Height  2-4  in.,  breadth  of  pileus,  1-2  in. 

Streets,  yards  and  fields,  on  or  about  old  stumps.  May  to  Septem- 
ber. Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  elliptical,  blackish,  7-8x4-5/4  Massee;  7x8/4  W.G.S./  iox5/*. 
W.P.;  elliptical,  brown,  6— %[*•  Peck. 

Var.  gramtla  ris .  Pileus  sprinkled  with  granules  or  furfuraceous 
scales.  New  York.  August.  Peck,  47th  Rep. 

Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller;  West  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  Pennsylvania, 
New  Jersey.  May  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Common  from  spring  until  frost.  This  is  the  oval-capped  toadstool 
found  in  clusters  about  trees,  posts,  along  grassy  sides  of  pavements,  pop- 
ping up,  Brownie-like,  from  sodded  places.  Although  small  and  thin,  its 

378 


Melanosporse 

clusters  soon  fill  baskets,  and  its  continuous  growth  in  some  places,  from  Coprinus. 
month   to   month,  year  to  year,  makes  it  one  to  be  depended   upon. 
Stewed  for  ten  minutes  it  makes  a  rich,  luscious  dish.      C.  congregatus 
closely  resembles  it  and  is  equally  good. 

******  Glabra'ti.     Pileus  smooth,  etc. 

C.  deliques'cens  (Bull.)  Fr.  Pileus  3~4  'n-  broad,  livid-fuliginous, 
membranaceous,  bell-shaped  then  expanded,  smooth,  but  dotted  with 
minute  points  on  the  disk,  never  downy  or  split,  the  edge  turning  up- 
ward and  striate,  the  striae  broad  but  not  deep.  Stem  4  in.  long,  2-4 
lines  thick,  hollow,  with  a  bark-like  covering,  equally  attenuated  up- 
ward, smooth,  shining  white.  Gills  free,  at  length  remote  from  the  stem, 
very  crowded,  flexuous,  very  narrow,  only  %  line  broad,  lurid-blackish. 
Fries. 

Frequent  on  stumps  and  among  fallen  leaves,  sometimes  in  tufts. 
July  to  October. 

Spores  elliptical,  obliquely  apiculate,  8x5/1.  Massee. 

Sometimes  confounded  with  C.  atramentarius. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  Mcllvaine. 

C.  deliquescens  is  of  good  size  and  quality.  The  stems  do  not  cook 
well  with  the  caps.  The  flavor  is  the  same  as  C.  atramentarius. 

C.  COngrega'tllS  (Bull.)  Fr.  Pileus  /£-K  in.  high,  cylindrical,  then 
bell-shaped,  finally  expanded  and  split  at  the  margin,  smooth,  viscid, 
margin  slightly  striate,  ochraceous.  Gills  about  I  line  broad,  slightly 
adnexed,  white,  finally  becoming  black.  Stem  i^  in.  high,  equal, 
smooth,  hollow,  whitish. 

On  the  ground,  also  in  hot-houses.     Massee. 

Readily  distinguished  by  the  densely  cespitose  mode  of  growth,  the 
small  size,  the  viscid,  ochraceous,  glabrous  pileus  which  remains  elon- 
gato-cylindrical  for  some  time,  then  becomes  campanulate  and  finally 
expands  and  splits  at  the  margin. 

Densely  cespitose,  fragile,  readily  distinguished  from  C.  digitalis  by 
its  much  smaller  size.  Fries. 

Spores  ;x8/x  W.G.S.;  ioxs/*  W.P. 

Fries  and  Cooke  considered  this  a  good  species. 

So  closely  allied  to  neighboring  species  that  it  is  difficult  to  deter- 
mine it.  Edible  qualities  are  included  in  the  alliance. 

379 


Agaricaceae 

B.     VELIFORMES.     Pileus  very  thin,  etc. 

*  Cyclodei.     Stem  bearing  ring,  etc. 
Coprinus.       None  edible. 

**  Lanatuli.     Pileus  with  superficial  downy  covering,  etc. 

C.  lagopus  Fr. — Gr. ,  a  hare;  a  foot.  Pileus  I  in.  broad,  whitish, 
disk  livid,  very  tender,  cylindrical  then  bell-shaped,  when  young  beau- 
tifully downy  then  naked,  flattened  and  split,  radiately  furrowed.  Stem 
5  in.  and  more  long,  I  line  thick,  very  weak,  very  fragile,  slightly  at- 
tenuated at  both  ends,  everywhere  white-woolly.  Gills  at  length  re- 
mote, narrow,  black.  Fries. 

Fries  distinguishes  two  forms.  A,  nemorum.  Stem  slender,  4-6  in. 
long.  B,  viarum.  Stem  2-3  in.  long.  Pileus  broader,  livid.  Both 
forms  are  inodorous.  The  pileus  of  the  long-stemmed  form  is  sometimes 
entirely  clear  brown,  at  others  grayish  with  a  brownish  disk.  Stem 
very  weak,  5  in.  and  more  in  length,  I  line  thick,  attenuated  at  both 
ends.  Pileus  thin,  expanded  bell-shaped,  about  I  in.  across,  when 
young  elegantly  flocculose,  then  furrowed,  disk  livid.  Gills  rather  dis- 
tant. 

New  York,  Peck,  38th  Rep.;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  July,  1898,  on  rub- 
bish about  abandoned  camp.  Prof.  M.  W.  Easton. 

A  strikingly  beautiful  species.  Both  forms  were  found  in  abundance, 
tested  and  eaten  with  enjoyment.  They  are  extremely  delicate,  and  of 
attractive  but  not  high  flavor. 

C.  VirgineilS  Banning.  PileilS  ovate,  bell-shaped,  or  cylindrical, 
pale  ocher,  the  margin  thin,  torn,  downy.  Lamellae  narrow,  close, 
forked,  at  first  white,  turning  dark  but  never  black,  adnexed.  Stem 
3)2  in.  long,  stout,  somewhat  stuffed,  attenuated  where  it  meets  the 
pileus,  flattened,  downy.  Spores  black. 

Cespitose  or  gregarious  at  the  roots  of  trees  or  about  old  stumps. 
Also  found  in  Virginia. 

The  plant  is  not  rapidly  deliquescent,  remaining  perfect  for  some 
hours.  Banning  MS. 

Maryland.     Virginia.      Miss  M.  E.  Banning  MS.     Peck,  44th  Rep. 

Chester  county,  Pa.  New  Jersey,  about  pear  -trees  and  stumps. 
Mcllvaine. 

380 


Melanosporae 


This  little  Coprinus  is  a  valuable  species  when  found.      A  patch  of  it  Coprinus. 
about  a  tree  or  stump  is  treasure  trove.      Patches  of  it  appear  in  July 
and  bear  until  October.     The  not-particular  observer  would  mistake  it 
for  C.  micaceus. 

***  Furfurel'li.     Piletis  micaceous  or  scurfy,  etc. 


Pileus  2  in.  broad, 

(Plate  CVI.) 


C.  domes'ticus  (Pers.)  Fr. — damns,  a  house, 
fuliginous,  disk  date-brown,  thin,  ovate 
then  bell-shaped,  covered  with  small 
branny  scales,  then  opening  into  furrows 
and  flattened,  undulately  silicate,  disk 
obtuse,  even.  Stem  2—3  in.  long,  2—3 
lines  thick,  fistulose,  slightly  firm,  at- 
tenuated upward,  adpressedly  silky,  be- 
coming even,  white.  Gills  adnexed,  at 
first  crowded,  distant  when  the  pileus  is 
split,  linear,  white  then  reddish,  at  length 
brownish-blackish . 

A  larger  and  more  remarkable  species 
than  all  the  neighboring  ones.  Fries. 

Spores  14-16x7-81".  Massee. 

On  much  decayed  wood,  damp  car- 
pets, in  cellars,  etc.  Often  in  clusters. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  Prof.  M.  W.  Easton, 
July,  1898;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey, 
Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

C.  domesticus  is  the  largest  of  its  sec- 
tion and  is  sometimes  of  remarkable  growth.     I  have  seen  it  start  from 
under  a  board  in  a  cellar  and  prolong  its  stems  for  over  a  foot  to  get  its 
caps  to  air  and  light.      Under  such  conditions  the  stems  are  twisted  in 
a  confused  mass.  « 

It  is  very  tender  with  a  decided  mushroom  flavor.     Cook  at  once. 

C.  silvat'icus  Pk.  Pileus  membranaceous,  with  a  thin  fleshy  disk, 
convex,  striate  in  folds  on  the  margin,  dark-brown,  the  depressed 
striae  paler.  Lamellae  subdistant,  narrow,  attached  to  the  stem,  brown- 
ish. Stem  fragile,  slender,  smooth,  hollow,  white.  Spores  gibbous- 
ovate,  12.//A  long. 

38i 


COPRINUS  DOMESTICUS. 
Natural  size. 


Agaricaceee 


Coprinus. 


(Plate  CVII.) 


Plant  2  in.  high.  Pileus  6-10  lines  broad. 
Stem  -5  lines  thick.  Ground  in  woods.  Greig. 
September. 

The  striae  extend  about  half  way  up  the  pi- 
leus.     Allied  to  C.  plicatilis  and  C.  ephemerus 
Peck,  24th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey. 
Frequent,  but  not  common.  On  ground  in 
woods,  August  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

This  pretty  little  fungus  is  frequently  found. 
I  have  never  been  able  to  get  it  in  quantity,  but 
have  often  eaten  it.  Its  flavor  is  musky,  rather 
strong.  It  is  edible,  but  is  not  Obtainable  in 
sufficient  numbers  to  make  it  of  much  food  value. 


COPRINUS  SILVATICUS. 

Enlarged  one-fourth. 

(After  Peck.) 


C.  ephem'erus  Fr.  Gr. — lasting  for  a  day. 
Pileus  /£-%  in.  across,  very  thin,  ovate,  then 
bell-shaped,  finally  expanded  and  splitting,  fur- 
rowed radiately,  at  first  slightly  scurfy,  disk  elevated,  even,  reddish. 
Gills  slightly  attached,  linear,  white,  then  brownish,  at  length  blackish. 
Stem  i  y^—2  %  in.  high,  I  line  or  more  thick,  equal,  glabrous,  pellucid, 
hollow,  whitish.  Spores  16—17x9—10/4. 

On  dunghills,  manured  ground,  etc.  To  the  naked  eye  appearing 
almost  glabrous,  but  under  a  lens  seen  to  be  distinctly  scurfy.  Known 
from  Coprinus  plicatilis  by  the  disk  of  the  pileus  being  prominent  and 
not  depressed.  Massee. 

Common  dung  and  dung  heaps.  May  to  October.  New  York,  Peck. 
23d  Rep. 

Of  such  size  and  delicate  substance  as  to  be  of  little  food  value.  But 
it  has  a  strong  mushroom  flavor  which  is  choice  as  a  flavoring.  It  ap- 
pears during  the  summer  months  on  dung  and  dung  heaps.  It  must 
be  cooked  as  soon  as  gathered. 

C.  semilana'tus  Pk.  Pileus  submembranaceous,  broadly  conical, 
then  expanded  and  strongly  revolute,  and  the  margin  sometimes  split, 
covered  with  mealy  atoms,  finely  and  obscurely  rimose-striate,  pale 
grayish-brown.  Lamellae  narrow,  close,  free.  Stem  elongated,  fragile, 
hollow,  slightly  tapering  upward,  white,  the  lower  half  clothed  with 

^82 


Melanosporee 

loose  cottony  flocci  which  rub   off  easily,   the   upper  half  smooth  or  Coprinus. 
slightly  farinaceous.      Spores  broadly  elliptical,  12.7/x  long. 

Plant  very  fragile,  4-6  in.  high.  Pileus  8-12  lines  broad.  Stem  I 
line  thick  at  the  base.  Rich  ground  and  dung.  Sandlake.  August. 
(Plate  IV,  fig.  15-18.)  Allied  to  C.  coopertus.  Peck,  24th  Rep.  N.Y. 
State  Bot. 

West  Virginia.  1881-1885,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  July  to  October. 
Mcllvaine. 

I  have  seldom  found  it,  though  at  times  it  was  quite  common  about 
stables  in  West  Virginia.  It  has  good  mushroom  flavor  and  is  edible. 
It  is  stately,  attracting  attention  by  its  peculiar  cap. 

C.  plica'tilis  Fr. — plico,  to  fold.  PileilS  I  in.  broad,  dusky-brown 
then  bluish-a;ay-cinereous,  disk  darker,  dusky-brown  or  reddish,  oval- 
cylindrical  then  campanulate,  soon  expanded,  opening  into  furrows, 
sulcate-plicate,  for  the  most  part  smooth,  disk  broad,  even,  at  length 
depressed.  Stem  1-3  in.  long,  fistulose,  thin,  equal,  even,  smooth,  pal- 
lid, somewhat  pellucid.  Gills  remote  from  the  stem  and  adnate  to  a  col- 
lar which  is  formed  from  the  dilated  apex  of  the  stem,  distant,  gray- 
blackish.  Fries. 

Very  tender  and  fragile,  but  when  scorched  by  the  sun  not  melting 
into  fluid.  Very  variable  in  stature  and  size.  Stevenson. 

Spores  12— 1 4x8-1  o/*  Massee;  broadly  elliptic,  5ft  long,  M.J.B.; 
n-13/A  long,  8-io/u.  broad  Peck,  Rep.  50. 

Common  in  rich  pastures,  lawns,  roadsides,  etc.      May  to  October. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  Mcllvaine. 

A  neat  little  fungus  often  found  in  great  plenty.  Though  small  it  is 
nevertheless  edible  and  must  be  written  with  its  edible  companions. 


0 

383 


Agaricaceae 


PANJTOLUS  Fr. 

Gr. — all;   Gr. — variegated. 

Panseoius.       PHeuS  slightly   fleshy,  not  striate,  margin  exceeding  the  gills.     Gills 


(Plate  CVIII.) 


PAN^OLUS 
aeolus   solidipes.     P. 


ascending  in  a  conical  manner, 
slate-gray,  mottled  with  the  black 
spores.  Stem  polished.  Veil 
woven,  often  absent.  Spores  black. 

On  the  ground  in  rich  earth,  and 
on  dung. 

In  the  black-spored  series  Psathy- 
rella  is  separated  by  the  striate 
pileus,  not  exceed1'^';  the  gills, 
Anellaria  by  the  ri.Vg  and  Coprinus 
by  the  deliquescent  gills. 

Panaeolus,  in  its  entirety,  has  a 
precise  looking  membership.  If 
the  gills  were  cut  from  cardboard 
and  fixed  by  machinery,  they  could 
not  be  more  correct.  Some  of  the 
species  are  among  the  earliest  ar- 
rivals at  toadstool  lawn  parties,  and 
some  are  the  last  to  leave.  Several 
are  culinary  favorites,  notably  Pan- 
papilionaceus  possesses  intoxicating  properties. 


P.  campanulatus  is  reported  to  be  a  sedative. 

The  edible  species  are  easily  cooked  and  are  exceptionally  delicate 
and  well  flavored. 

P.  retiru'gis  Fr. — rete,  a  net;  ruga,  a  wrinkle.  Pileus  about  i  in. 
across,  at  first  almost  globose,  then  hemispherical,  subumbonate,  mi- 
nutely mealy,  opaque,  moist,  furnished  with  uniting  raised  ribs,  pinkish 
tan-color;  margin  with  irregular  fragments  of  the  veil  attached.  Flesh 
rather  thick.  Gills  adnexed,  ascending,  2  lines  or  more  broad,  grayish- 
black.  Stem  2-4  in.  long,  about  2  lines  thick,  equal,  pruinose,  pur- 
plish flesh-color,  hollow.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptic-fusiform,  1 1-13x7^  Massee. 

On  dung.  Distinguished  among  the  species  of  Panaeolus  by  the 

384 


Melanosporse 

raised  ribs  on  the  pileus  and  its  appendiculate  margin.     The  pileus  is  Paneeoius. 
sometimes   grayish.      Closely  resembling,   superficially,    Psathyra  cor- 
rugis,  which  is,  however,  distinguished  by  the  violet-black  gills. 

Spores  elliptical,  shortly  fusiform,  2O/*  Q.;   i6xiifi  W.G.S. 

New  York,  Peck,  23d  Rep.  West  Virginia,  1881-1885.  Pennsyl- 
vania, New  Jersey,  frequent  on  dung.  June  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

P.  retirugis  is  not  a  common  species,  and  is  a  sparse  grower,  but  is 
frequently  found.  It  is  seldom  that  a  mess  can  be  had  at  one  time.  It 
is  an  excellent  species  by  itself  and  imparts  a  good  flavor  to  others. 

P.  fimi'cola  Fr. — fimus,   dung;   cola,   to  inhabit.     Pileus  3^-K  in. 

across  and  high,  slightly  fleshy,  convex  bell-shaped,  obtuse,  glabrous, 
opaque,  dingy-gray  when  moist,  paler  and  yellowish  when  dry,  with  a 
narrow  brown  encircling  zone  near  the  margin.  Gills  adnate,  2  lines  or 
more  broad,  gray,  variegated  with  smoky-black.  Stem  2-4  in.  high, 
i  line  or  more  thick,  equal,  fragile,  whitish,  powdered  with  white  meal 
upward,  hollow.  Fries. 

Stem  soft,  fragile,  obsoletely  silky-striatulate,  2-4  in.  long.  Pileus 
when  moist  commonly  smoky-gray,  when  dry  grayish  clay-color,  some- 
times discoid.  Gills  semi-ovate  with  a  minute  decurrent  tooth.  Fries. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey.  Frequent.  On  dung  and 
"richly  manured  places.  June  to  September.  Mcllvaine, 

P.  fimicola  is  neither  as  large  nor  heavy  as  P.  solidipes,  but  in  other 
respects  equals  it. 

P.  SOli'dipes  Pk. — solidus,  solid;  pes,  a  foot.  (Plate  CIII,  fig.  3,  4, 
p.  372.)  Pileus  2-3  in.  across,  firm,  at  first  hemispherical,  then  sub- 
campanulate  or  convex,  smooth,  whitish,  the  cuticle  at  length  breaking 
up  into  dingy-yellowish,  rather  large,  angular  scales.  Grills  broad, 
slightly  attached,  whitish,  becoming  black.  Stem  2-4  lines  thick,  firm, 
smooth,  white,  solid,  slightly  striate  at  the  top.  Spores  very  black 
with  a  bluish  tint.  Height  of  plant  jJ-8  in.  Dung  heaps.  West  Al- 
bany. June. 

A  large  species,  remarkable  for  its  solid  stem.  The  scales  on  the 
pileus  are  larger  on  the  disk,  becoming  smaller  toward  the  margin.  The 
upper  part  of  the  stipe  is  sometimes  beaded  with  drops  of  moisture. 
Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y  State  Bot. 

25  385 


Agaricaceee 

Pameoius.  West  Virginia,  1881-1885.  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  frequent  on 
dung  and  dung  heaps.  May  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

On  mature  plants,  or  after  rains,  the  scales  are  not  always  present. 

P.  solidipes  is  a  handsome,  readily  recognized  species  of  good  weight 
and  substance.  It  is  one  of  the  best  of  toadstools. 

P.  campanula' tllS  Linn. — campanula,  a  little  bell.  Pileus  oval, 
bell-shaped  or  obtusely  conical,  sometimes  umbonate,  smooth,  somewhat 
shining,  brownish,  with  a  peculiar  gray  or  lead-colored  tint,  sometimes 
becoming  reddish-tinted,  the  margin,  often  scalloped  or  fringed  with  the 
appendiculate  veil.  Lamellae  not  broad,  attached,  becoming  grayish- 
black.  Stem  long,  slender,  hollow,  reddish,  pruinose  and  slightly 
striate  at  the  top,  at  length  dusted  with  the  spores. 

Height  4-6  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  6-12  lines. 

On  horse  dung  and  rich  soil.     June  and  July.      Common. 

In  very  wet  weather  the  cuticle  of  the  pileus  sometimes  cracks  into 
scales  or  areas.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  subellipsoid,  16-18x10— 13/4  K.;  8-9x6)"-  Massee, 

Mr.  R.  K.  Macadam,  Boston,  Mass.,  informs  me  that  he  has  infor- 
mation of  a  case  of  poisoning  by  this  fungus.  "The  victim  experi- 
enced dizziness,  dimness  of  vision,  trembling  and  loss  of  power  and 
memory.  He  recovered  after  simple  treatment  and  was  well  inside  of 
24  hours." 

A  full  account  of  this  case  is  in  "The  London  Medical  and  Surgical 
Journal,"  Vol.  36,  November,  1816.  The  poison  acts  as  a  sedative. 

I  have  several  times  eaten  of  this  fungus  in  small  quantities,  because 
larger  could  not  be  obtained,  and  with  no  other  than  pleasant  effect. 
There  does  not  appear  to  be  any  case  of  poisoning  reported  by  it  since 
1816,  which,  considering  the  inquisitiveness  of  man,  is  singular.  Caution 
is  advised. 

P.  papiliona'ceus  Fr. — papilio,  a  butterfly.  Pileus  subhemispherical, 
sometimes  subumbonate,  smooth,  or  with  the  cuticle  breaking  up  into 
scales,  whitish-gray,  often  tinged  with  yellow.  Lamellae  very  broad, 
attached,  becoming  black.  Stem  slender,  firm,  hollow,  pruinose  above, 
whitish,  sometimes  tinged  with  red  or  yellow,  slightly  striate  at  the  top 
and  generally  stained  by  the  spores. 

Height  3-5  in.,  breadth  of  pileus  6-18  lines. 

386 


Melanosporse 

On  dung  and  rich  soil.      Common.      May  and  June. 

A  small  form  occurs  with  the  pileus  nearly  white,  scarcely  half  an 
inch  in  diameter,  and  the  cuticle  not  cracking.  Peck,  23d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

The  effects  of  P.  papilionaceus  are  very  uncertain.  I  have  seen  it 
produce  hilarity  in  a  few  instances,  and  other  mild  symptoms  of  intoxi- 
cation, which  were  soon  over,  and  with  little  reaction.  But  I  have  seen, 
at  table,  the  same  effects  from  eating  preserved  peaches  and  preserved 
plums  which  had  fermented.  Many  personal  testings  have  been  with- 
out effect.  Testings  upon  others  vary  with  the  individuals.  The  fungus 
seems  to  contain  a  mild  stimulant.  It  is  not  dangerous,  but  should  be 
eaten  with  caution.  Being  of  small  size,  and  not  a  prolific  species, 
quantities  of  it  are  difficult  to  obtain.  Moderate  quantities  of  it  have 
no  effect  whatever. 


Panseolus. 


387 


Agaricaceae 


ANELLA'RIA    Karst. 
Anellus,  a  little  ring. 

Aneiiaria.  Pileus  slightly  fleshy,  smooth  and  even.  Gills  adnexed,  dark  slate- 
color,  variegated  with  the  black  spores.  Stem  central,  smooth,  shining, 
rather  firm.  Ring  present  at  first,  either  persistent  or  forming  a  zone 
around  the  stem. 

The  species  of  this  genus  were  formerly  included  in  Panaeolus,  from 
which  this  is  separated  by  the  presence  of  a  ring,  more  or  less  definite. 

In  other  characters  they  are  similar.    As  in  Amanitopsis  and  Amanita. 


(Plate  CIX.) 


A.  separa'ta  Karst. — separates,  distinct,  separate.  Pileus  i-iK  in. 

across,  height  about  the  same,  ovate,  then 
bell-shaped,  not  expanding,  viscid,  even, 
ochraceous,  then  whitish,  shining,  wrinkled 
when  old.  Flesh  rather  thick.  Gills  adfixed, 
ascending,  thin,  crowded,  broad,  2-3  lines, 
grayish-black,  margin  paler.  Stem  long,  3-5 
in.,  straight,  base  thickened,  attenuated  up- 
ward, whitish,  shining,  top  somewhat  striate. 
Ring  persistent,  distant.  Massee. 

On  dung.      Rather  variable  in  size. 

Pileus  bell-shaped,  but  very  obtuse  at  the 
summit,  >£-i  M  in.  from  the  base  to  the  apex, 
not  expanding  at  the  base  without  cracking. 

Spores  broadly  elliptic-fusiform,  black, 
opaque,  iox7/x  Massee;  ellipsoid,  16—22x10— 
I2/*  K.;  i6xn/t  W.G.S. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885,  New  Jersey, 
Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  July,  1898,  on  dung.  Me- 
Ilvaine. 

A  common,  frequent  species  from  May  to 
October.  It  is  substantial  in  flesh,  excellent 
in  substance  and  flavor.  Cook  soon  and  not 
over  fifteen  minutes. 

ANELLARIA  SEPARATA. 
Natural  size. 


388 


Melanosporaa 

PSATHYREL'LA. 

Gr. — fragile. 

PileilS  membranaceous,  striate,  margin  straight,  at  first  pressed  to  the  Psathyreiia. 
stem,  not  extending  beyond  the  gills .     Veil  inconspicuous.     Gills  sooty- 
black,  not  variegated.     Spores  black. 

Closely  resembling  Psathyra  in  appearance,  but  separated  by  the 
spore  color. 

In  the  black-spored  series  Panaeolus  and  Anellaria  are  distinguished 
by  their  pilei  not  being  striate  and  Coprinus  by  its  deliquescent  gills. 

The  species  are  small  and  can  seldom  be  gathered  in  quantity.  But 
those  tested  have  the  full  mushroom  flavor  and  are  valued  for  the  flavor 
they  give  to  less  gifted  species  when  cooked  with  them. 

P.  gra'cilis  Fr. — slender.  Pileus  3^-1  in.  broad,  sooty,  livid,  etc., 
when  dry,  tan,  rosy  or  whitish,  hygrophanous,  membranaceous,  bell- 
shaped,  obtuse,  smooth,  even,  slightly  and  pellucidly-striate  only  round 
the  margin.  Stem  3  in.  and  more  long,  scarcely  I  line  thick,  tubular, 
remarkably  tense  and  straight ,  equal,  naked,  smooth,  whitish,  not  rooted ', 
wJiite-villons  at  the  base.  Grills  wholly  adnate,  commonly  broader  be- 
hind (rarely  linear),  almost  distant,  distinct,  at  first  whitish,  then  cin- 
ereous-blackish with  the  black  spores,  edge  rose-colored.  Fries. 

When  dry  the  pileus  is  soft  to  the  touch.  Gregarious,  fragile.  Very 
similar  to  A.  corrugis,  and  there  is  a  variety  corrugated.  Stevenson. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  13-14x7-8^  K.;  5xi2/u-  W.G.S.;  7x3-3.5/4  Mas- 
see;  14x8/4  Morgan. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  23  ;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania, 
common,  rich  ground,  June  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

A  common  and  beautiful  fungus,  growing  in  patches  on  rich  ground. 
It  is  decidedly  prim.  Its  conical  cap  is  regular  as  an  extinguisher.  It 
pays  to  gather  it  for  flavoring  other  species.  I  have  not  seen  the 
corrugated  form  mentioned  by  Fries.  P.  graciloides  Pk.  lacks  the  rosy- 
edged  gills;  gills  are  whitish. 


3*9 


Agaricaceae 


(Plate  CX.) 


PsathyreUa.       P.  graciloi'des   Pk. — slender.     Pileus  thin,  conical  or  bell-shaped, 

glabrous,  hygrophanous,  brown  and  striatu- 
late  when  moist,  whitish  and  subrugulose 
when  dry.  Lamellae  ascending,  rather 
broad,  subdistant,  brown,  becoming  black- 
ish-brown, the  edge  whitish.  Stem  long, 
straight,  fragile,  hollow,  smooth,  white. 
Spores  blackish,  elliptical,  15-16.5x8- 

8.5*. 

Plant  gregarious,  4-6  in.  high.  Pileus 
I  in.  broad.  Stem  I  line  thick. 

Ground  in  an  old  dooryard.  Maryland. 
September. 

This  is  allied  to  A.  gracilis  Fr.,  but  the 
edge  of  the  gills  is  not  rosy.  When  dry- 
ing the  moisture  leaves  the  disk  of  the  pi- 
leus  first,  the  margin  last.  When  dry  the 
plant  bears  some  resemblance  to  large  forms 
of  A.  tener.  Under  a  lens  the  texture  of 
the  surface  of  the  pileus  is  seen  to  be  com- 
posed of  matted  fibrils.  Peck,  3Oth  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey,  on  ground 
about   houses    and  stables,   often  in   barn 
yards,   after  they  have   been  cleaned  out 
and  are  empty  for  the  summer.     Mcllvaine. 

The  whitish-edged  gills  with  entire  absence  of  rosiness  on  gill  edges 
distinguish  this  species  from  P.  gracilis  Fr.  It  is  frequent  but  not 
plentiful.  Often  a  pint  can  be  gathered.  It  has  a  fine  mushroom  flavor, 
resembling  the  delicate  forms  of  Coprinus. 

P.  atoma'ta  Fr. — atomatus,  atomate.  Pileus  ^-i  in.  broad,  livid, 
when  dry  becoming  pale  tan  or  pale  flesh-color,  sometimes  reddish,  hy- 
grophanous, membranaceous,  bell-shaped,  obtuse,  slightly  striate,  when 
dry  without  striae,  slightly  wrinkled,  sprinkled  with  shining  atoms. 
Stem  2  in.  long,  almost  I  line  thick,  tubular,  equal,  not  rooted,  lax, 
slightly  bent  (not  tense  and  straight),  white  and  white  pulverulent  at 


PSATHYRELLA  GRACILOIDES. 


39C 


Melanosporae 


the  apex.     Gills   adnate,    broad,   ventricose,   slightly   distant,   distinct,  Psathyreiia. 
whitish,  but  cinereous-blackish  with  the  black  spores.      Fries. 

Solitary  or  gregarious.  Pileus  changing  like  A.  gracilis  from  livid 
to  whitish  and  rose-color,  but  more  fragile.  Stevenson. 

Spores  elliptical,  iox4/u.  Massec;  14x9^  W.G.S.;  I  ix8/*  Morgan. 

Chester  county,  Pa.,  June  to  September.     Mcllvaine. 

Several  specimens  were  eaten.  In  flavor  they  could  not  be  distin- 
guished from  C.  micaceus.  The  scarcity  and  small  size  of  the  species 
make  it  of  little  value,  save  as  a  flavoring. 

P.  dissemina'ta  Pers. — dissemino,  to  scatter.  Found  everywhere. 
Densely  tufted.  Pileus  about  14  in.  across,  (Plate  CXI.) 

membranaceous,  ovate,  bell-shaped,  at  first 
scurfy,  then  naked,  coarsely  striate,  mar- 
gin entire,  yellowish  then  gray.  Gills  ad- 
nate, narrow,  whitish,  then  gray,  finally 
blackish.  Stem  1—1^2  in.  long,  rather 
curved,  mealy  then  smooth,  fragile,  hol- 
low. Massee. 

Crowded.  Pileus  ovate,  conical,  at 
length  bell-shaped,  lA—%  in.  from  the  base 
to  the  apex,  striate  and  plicate,  membra- 
naceous, pale  buff  or  reddish-brown,  at 
length  gray,  becoming  flaccid  and  dissolv- 
ing. Gills  distant,  narrow,  pale  brown. 
Stipes  1—3  in.  long,  slender,  weak,  brittle, 
crooked,  hollow,  pale  yellowish,  whitish  or 

grayish.      Particularly  partial  to  old  willow  trees,  and  when  growing  on 
a  stump  of  a  felled  tree  often  covering  nearly  a  square  yard.      Grev. 

Spores  8x6^  W.G.S.;  7.6x5/4  Morgan. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  about  abandoned  camp. 
Densely  tufted.  May  to  frost.  Mcllvaine. 

Patches  of  it  are  very  common  on  old  trunks,  about  decaying  trees, 
on  ground.  The  caps  rarely  reach  I  in.  in  diameter.  The  plants  cook 


jY*»*'^s 

PSATHYRELLA  DISSEMINATA. 


391 


Agaricaceae 

Psathyreiia.  away  to  almost  nothing,  but  they  are  of  fine  flavor,  which  they  impart 
to  the  cooking  medium. 


GOMPHI'DIUS  Fr. 

A  wooden  bolt  or  nail. 

Hymenophore  decurrent.  Gills  distant,  composed  of  a  mucilaginous 
membrane,  which  can  be  readily  separated  into  two  plates,  continuous 
at  the  edge  which  is  acute  and  powdered  with  the  blackish  fusiform 
spores.  Veil  viscoso-floccose.  Fleshy,  putrescent,  pileus  at  length  the 
shape  of  an  inverted  cone. 

A  small  genus  with  great  difference  among  the  species.  Intermediate 
in  habit  between  Cortinarius  and  Hygrophorus. 

Universal  Veil  glutinous,  at  first  terminating  on  the  stem  in  a  floccose 
ring  soon  disappearing.  The  Gills  frequently  admit  of  being  detached 
and  stretched  out  into  a  continuous  membrane.  Fries. 

A  genus  possessing  several  well-marked  characters.  The  very  decur- 
rent gills  differ  from  all  others  in  their  soft  mucilaginous  consistency. 
The  spores  are  larger  than  usual  in  the  Agaricaceae  and  have  the  elon- 
gated spindle-shape  found  in  Boleti.  The  stem  and  pileus  are  of  the 
same  substance,  and  the  pileus  and  veil  are  both  glutinous  when  moist. 
The  spores  have  been  described  as  greenish-gray  becoming  black,  and 
as  dingy-olive, 

I  have  had  opportunity  to  see  but  two  species  of  this  small  genus — 
G.  rhodoxanthus  and  G.  viscidus.  Of  these  the  spores  are  decidedly 
olivaceous.  If  the  six  other  species  recorded  as  found  in  the  United 
States  are  as  creditable,  they  are  well  worth  hunting  for.  G.  Oregonen- 
sis  Pk,  is  reported  as  edible  and  as  a  valuable  food  species  in  Oregon. 

392 


Melanosporaa 

The  glutinous  coatings  to  pileus  and  stem  do  not  appear  on  the  Ameri- 
can  form  of  G.  rhodoxanthus  in  the  localities  I  have  found  it  in  during 
fifteen  years. 

• 

G.  glutino'sus  (Schaeff.)  Fr. — glutin,  glue.  Pileus  2-5  in.  broad, 
purple-brown,  often  mottled  with  black  spots,  fleshy,  convex,  obtuse, 
at  length  plane,  even  depressed,  even,  smooth,  very  glutinous.  Flesh 
thick,  about  %  in.,  soft,  white.  Stem  2-3  in.  and  more  long,  about 
%  in.  thick,  solid,  whitish,  thickened  and  externally  and  internally 
yellow  at  the  base,  viscid  with  the  veil,  fibrillose  or  varying  with  black 
scales.  Cortina  often  woven  in  the  form  of  a  ring,  but  soon  fugacious. 
Gills  deeply  decurrent,  distant,  distinct,  branched,  quite  entire,  muci- 
laginous, 3-4  lines  broad,  at  first  whitish,  then  cinereous,  clouded  with 
the  spores. 

Trama  none,  wherefore  the  gills  easily  separate  from  the  pileus. 
Taste  watery,  moldy.  Odor  not  marked.  Stevenson. 

Spores  2O/A  Cooke;  18-23x6-8^  K.;  16-17x6^  W.G.S.;  18-20x6/1* 
Mas  see. 

Distinguished  by  the  bright  yellow  base  of  stem. 

Pine  woods.     July  to  November.      Nova  Scotia.     Somers. 

Edible.     Letiba.      Chiefly  used  for  catsup.      Cooke. 

Var.  ro'seus.  Pileus  rose-color.  Stem  white,  attenuated  and  rosy 
flesh-color  internally  at  the  base.  Very  distinguished,  always  smaller. 

Spores  2o-22x6fi  K. 

Nova  Scotia.     Massachusetts.     Frost. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species  or  its  variety.  Eminent  authorities  vouch 
for  its  edibility. 

G.  Oregonen'sis  Pk.  Pileus  at  first  convex,  becoming  nearly  plane 
or  somewhat  centrally  depressed,  viscid,  brown  or  dark-brown,  becom- 
ing black  in  drying,  taste  sweet  and  pleasant.  Lamellae  numerous, 
rather  close,  adnate  or  slightly  decurrent,  blackish  in  the  dried  plant. 
Stem  short,  solid,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  colored  like  the 
pileus.  Spores  oblong,  I o-i 2. 5/x.  long,  4~5/x  broad. 

Pileus  5-10  cm.  broad.      Stem  2.5-5  cm.  long,  4-10  mm.  thick. 

Fir  woods.      Oregon.      September  to  December.      Lane. 

Dr.  Lane  writes  that  this  species  is  edible  and  grows  so  abundantly 
in  fir  woods  that  it  might  be  gathered  by  wagon  loads  and  might  be 

393 


Agaricaceee 

made  a  source  of  an  abundant  food  supply. 
Vol.  25,  No.  6,  June,  1898. 


Peck.     Torrey  Bulletin, 


(Plate  CXII.) 


U 


GOMPHIDIUS    VISCIDUS. 

One-half  natural  size. 


Gr.  vis'cidus  Fr. — viscid.  Pileus  2-3  in.  and  more  broad,  brownish- 
red,  compact,  at  first  bell-shaped, 
then  expanded,  umbonate,  slightly 
viscous,  shining  when  dry.  Flesh 
yellowish.  Stem  3-4  in.  and  more 
long,  )4  in.  thick,  solid,  equal  or 
attenuated  at  the  base  which  is  rhu- 
barb-colored internally,  scaly-fibril- 
lose,  not  very  viscous,  yellowish. 
Cortina  very  evidently  fioccose,  not 
glutinous,  woven  in  the  form  of  a 
ring,  but  readily  falling  off.  Gills 
deeply  decurrent,  distant,  the  shorter 
ones  adnexed  to  the  longer,  not  truly 
branched,  at  first  paler,  somewhat 
olive,  at  length  brownish -purple, 
clouded  with  the  spores.  Fries. 
Hymenophore  descending  between  the  gill  plates.  Odor  not  unpleas- 
ant. Stevenson. 

Chiefly  used  in  catsup.      Cooke.     Edible.     Leuba.      Cooke. 
North  Carolina,  Massachusetts,  Frost.      Minnesota,  California,  Penn- 
sylvania. 

Many  grew  under  pines  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  September  to  November. 
The  gills  seemed  branched,  but  were  grown  together.  Taste  and  smell 
pleasant.  The  caps  are  good,  but  not  equal  to  G.  rhodoxanthus. 

G.  rhodoxan'thus  Schw.  (Plate  XCVII,  fig.  4,  5,  p.  352.)  Soli- 
tary. Pileus  1-2  in.  broad,  cushion-shaped,  reddish-yellow,  sometimes 
with  dusky  hues.  Gills  arched,  decurrent,  orange-yellow.  Stem  atten- 
uated, short,  firm. 

Spores  oblong,  IO-I2.5/A  in  length.    Peck.    Olivaceous.    Mcllvaine. 

Solitary,  gregarious  or  cespitose. 

Among  leaves  and  grass  in  shady  places.     August  to  October. 

When  the  student  has  mastered  the  name  and  memorized  the  descrip- 


394 


Melanosporae 

tion,  Gomphidius  rhodoxanthus  can  not  be  mistaken  for  any  other  spe- 
cies. 

It  is  not  common  in  localities  I  have  frequented,  but  its  presence  is 
pretty  general  in  the  United  States,  specimens  having  been  sent  to  me 
from  Georgia,  Iowa,  New  York,  New  Jersey,  etc.,  and  I  have  found  it 
in  West  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  Woodland  Cemetery,  Philadelphia, 
and  other  places  in  Pennsylvania,  from  July  to  September,  1898,  in- 
clusive. Having  enjoyed  it  in  West  Virginia  in  1882,  I  was  delighted 
to  find  it  in  generous  quantity  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  and  to  eat  many 
meals  of  it..  Its  caps  are  not  excelled  by  any  edible  fungus.  They 
have  solid,  delicious  substance  and  rich  full  flavor. 

The  plant  is  often  cespitose.  I  have  never  found  its  cap  viscid  or 
glutinous.  The  cooked  flesh  has  the  latter  consistency. 


MONTAGNITES  Fr. 

After  Montagne.     (Plate  CI,  fig.  6,  p.  368.) 

The  universal  veil  forming  a  volva,  persistent.      Stem  dilated  at  the  Montagnites. 
apex  into  a  plane  round  disk,  even  on  both  sides,  to  the  margin  of  which 
are  ad  fixed  the  gills  which  are  free,  not  joined  by  any  membrane ,  radiating, 
razor-shaped,  persistent,  obtuse  at  the  edge.    Trama  cellulose.   Spores 
oblong,  even,  black  fuscous.     Fries. 

A  single  species  is  reported  from  Texas. 


395 


Polyporaceee 


FAMILY  II.— POLYPORACE^J. 

Hymenophore  inferior,  facing  the  ground.  Hymenium  consisting  of 
tubes  with  poriform  mouths  which  are  round  or  angular,  sometimes 
sinuous  or  torn,  lined  with  4-spored  sporophores  and  cystidia. 

Fleshy,  coriaceous  or  woody  fungi,  most  abundant  and  luxuriant 
in  warm  countries.  Intermediate  between  the  Agaricaceae  and  the 
Hydnaceae,  connected  with  the  former  by  Daedalea  and  Lenzites,  and 
with  the  latter  by  Fistulina  and  Irpex.  Fries. 

Within  this  large  family  are  famed  edible  species,  notably  in  Boletinus, 
Boletus  and  Fistulina.  In  the  woody  species  the  razor-strop  man  finds 
material  for  his  strops  (Polyporus  celulinus)  ;  the  surgeon  styptics;  the 
peasant  punk  to  catch  sparks  from  his  flint,  and  the  4th  of  July  urchin 
a  fire-holder  to  light  his  pyrotechnics.  The  Chinese  have  placed  some 
species  in  their  fathomless  materia  medica,  while  the  Polyporus  of  the 
locust  tree  is  used  in  America  as  a  medicine  for  horses.  No  fungoid 
growth  is  more  universal.  They  are  the  ever  active  pruners  of  our  trees 
and  converters  of  forest  debris.  They  begin  the  task  in  Nature's  labora- 
tory of  changing  decaying  wood  into  assimilable  shape  as  food  to  feed 
the  very  trees  that  dropped  it.  Some  are  of  annual  growth,  others  add 
to  their  substance  year  after  year,  often  attaining  enormous  size.  In 
summer  and  in  winter  they  are  ever  present  objects  for  interesting  study. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  GENERA. 

BOLETINUS.     Page  398. 

Hymenium  composed  of  broader  radiating  gills  connected  by  very 
numerous  more  narrow  anastomosing  branches  or  partitions  and  forming 
large  angular  pores.  Tubes  somewhat  tenacious,  not  easily  separable 
from  the  hymenophore  and  from  each  other,  adnate  or  subdecurrent, 
yellowish.  Peck. 

BOLETUS.     Page  404. 

Stratum  of  tubes  easily  separable  from  the  hymenophore.  Stem 
central. 

396 


Polyporaceae 

STROBILOMYCES  .     Page  47  5 . 
Tubes  like  Boletus,  but  pileus  with  large  scales.     Stem  central. 

FlSTULlNA.      Page  477. 
Fleshy,  lateral,  tubes  crowded  but  distinct. 

POLYPORUS.     Page  479- 

Stratum  of  tubes  distinct  from  hymenophore,  but  not  separable,  not 
stratose;  fleshy  and  tough,  stipitate  or  sessile. 

FOMES. 

Tubes  as  in  Polyporus,  often  stratose;  woody,  sessile;  dimidiate. 
(No  edible  species  reported.) 

POLYSTICTUS. 

Tubes  as  in  Polyporus,  not  stratose,  generally  developing  from  the 
center  to  the  margin,  at  first  shallow  and  punctiform,  coriaceous  or 
membranaceous.  (No  edible  species  reported.) 

PORIA. 

Tubes  as  in  Polyporus,  not  stratose;  entirely  resupinate.  (No  edible 
species  reported. ) 

MUCRONOPORUS. 

Tubes  studded  with  reddish-brown  spines,  intermingled  with  the  ba- 
sidia,  otherwise  as  in  Polystictus  (and  also  as  in  Polyporus  and 
Fomes).  Atkinson.  (No  edible  species  reported.) 

TRAMETES. 

Tubes  immersed  in  flesh  of  pileus,  of  various  depths,  hence  not  form- 
ing a  heterogeneous  stratum,  subcylindrical,  not  stratose;  corky;  sessile. 

D^DALEA. 

Tubes  as  in  Trametes,  but  sinuous  and  labyrinthiform ;  corky;  not 
stratose;  sessile.  (No  edible  species  reported.  ) 

397 


Polyporacese 

HEXAGONIA. 

Tubes  from  the  first  dilated  in  hexagonal  channels,  not  stratose; 
plants  corky,  sessile.  Atkinson.  (No  edible  species  reported.) 

FAVOLUS. 

Tubes  large  at  first,  radiating  from  a  central  stem,  or  from  a  lateral 
attachment  in  sessile  or  dimidiate  forms ;  plants  tough  and  fleshy.  At- 
kinson. (No  edible  species  reported.) 

CYCLOMYCES. 

Gills  or  tubes  in  concentric  circles.  Stem  central,  subcentral  or  none. 
Atkinson.  (No  edible  species  reported.) 

MERULIUS.    Page  490. 

Subgelatinous .  Tubes  very  shallow ,  formed  by  anastomosing  wrinkles ; 
resupinate. 


BOLETI'NUS  Kalchb. 
(Plate   CXIII,    p.    402.) 

Boietinus.  Hymenophore  not  even  (as  in  Boletus),  but  extended  in  blunt  points 
descending  like  a  trama  among  the  tubes.  Tubes  not  easily  separable 
from  the  hymenophore  and  from  each  other.  Stem  ringed,  hollow. 
Spores  pale  yellowish.  Sylloge,  Vol.  VI,  p.  51. 

Professor  Peck  has  for  excellent  reasons,  given  in  his  Boleti  of  the 
United  States,  emended  the  generic  diagnosis  of  Fries  thus :  Hyme- 
nium  composed  of  broader  radiating  lamella  connected  by  very  numerous 
more  narrow  anastomosing  branches  or  partitions  and  forming  large 
angular  pores.  Tiibes  somewhat  tenacious,  not  easily  separable  from  the 
hymenophore  and  from  each  other,  adnate  or  subdecurrent,  yellowish. 
Professor  Peck  classifies  Boietinus  as  follows : 

Stem  hollow B .  cavipes 

Stem  solid I 

I .    Stem  lateral  or  eccentric B.  porosus 

I .    Stem  central 2 

2.    Pileus^pale  yellow,  silky B.  decipiens 

2.    Pileus  red  or  adorned  with  red  scales 3 

398 


Polyporacese 

3 .    Pileus  red B.  paluster  Boietmus. 

3.    Pileus  soon  red-squamose B.  pictus 

Boleti  of  the  United  States,  p.  76. 

There  are  six  species  given  as  found  in  the  United  States — B.  cavipes 
Kalchb.,  B.  pictus  Pk.,  B.  paluster  Pk.,  B.  decipiens  Pk.,  B.  porosus 
Pk.,  B.  appendiculatus  Pk. — of  these  I  have  found  and  eaten  four.  B. 
decipiens  has,  at  this  writing,  not  been  seen  by  Professor  Peck,  but 
Professor  Farlow,  of  Harvard,  has  informed  him  of  authentic  specimens. 
There  is  every  probability  of  its  being  as  edible  as  the  others;  a  descrip- 
tion of  it  is,  therefore,  given. 

In  consistency  Boletinus  is  of  the  best,  being  rather  like  that  of  marsh- 
mallows,  and  the  same  as  Boletus  subaureus.  The  flavor  is  mild  and 
pleasant. 

Professor  Peck  mentions  that  the  smell  of  B.  porosus  is  sometimes 
unpleasant.  I  have  been  fortunate  in  not  having  had  this  experience. 

B.  ca'vipes  Kalchb.  Pileus  broadly  convex,  rather  tough,  flexible, 
soft,  subumbonate,  fibrillose-scaly,  tawny-brown,  sometimes  tinged  with 
reddish  or  purplish.  Flesh  yellowish.  Tubes  slightly  decurrent,  at  first 
pale-yellow,  then  darker  and  tinged  with  green,  becoming  dingy-ochra- 
ceous  with  age.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  somewhat 
fibrillose  or  floccose,  slightly  ringed,  hollow,  tawny-brown  or  yellowish- 
brown,  yellowish  at  the  top  and  marked  by  the  decurrent  dissepiments 
of  the  tubes,  white  within.  Veil  whitish,  partly  adhering  to  the  margin 
of  the  pileus,  soon  disappearing.  Spores  8-IOX4//.. 

Pileus  1-5-4  in.  broad.  Stem  1.5-3  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 
Swamps  and  damp  mossy  ground  under  or  near  tamarack  trees.  New 
York,  Peck;  New  England,  Frost. 

The  pileus  is  clothed  with  a  fibrillose  tomentum  which  becomes  more 
or  less  united  into  floccose  tufts  or  scales.  The  umbo  is  not  always 
present  and  is  generally  small.  The  young  stem  may  sometimes  be 
stuffed,  but,  if  so,  it  soon  becomes  hollow,  though  the  cavity  is  irregu- 
lar. The  freshly  shed  spores  have  a  greenish-yellow  or  olivaceous  hue, 
but  in  time  they  assume  a  pale  or  yellowish-ochraceous  hue.  This  spe- 
cies is  apparently  northern  in  its  range.  It  loves  cold  sphagnous 
swamps  in  mountainous  regions.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

399 


Polyporaceee 

Boletinus.       West  Virginia  mountains  under  spruce  trees.      Haddonfield,  N.  J., 
among  scrub  pines.      Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  among  pines. 

It  is  of  excellent  consistency  and  of  mild  pleasant  flavor.  It  is  at  its 
best  in  patties,  croquettes  and  escallops. 

B.  appendicula'tus  Pk.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex,  glabrous,  ochrace- 
ous-yellow,  the  margin  appendiculate  with  an  incurved  membranous 
veil.  Flesh  pale-yellow,  unchangeable.  Tubes  rather  small,  yellow, 
their  mouths  angular,  unequal,  becoming  darker  or  brownish  where 
wounded.  Stem  solid,  slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  yellow.  Spores 
pale-yellow,  oblong,  io-i2x4/x.  Pileus  4-8  in.  broad.  Stem  2—3  in. 
long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Under  or  near  fir  trees.  Washington.  September  to  December. 
Yeemans.  Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  23,  No.  10. 

B.  pic'tus  Pk.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  at  first  covered  with  a 
red  fibrillose  tomentum  which  seon  divides  into  small  scales  revealing  the 
yellow  color  of  the  pileus  beneath.  Flesh  yellow,  often  slowly  changing 
to  dull  pinkish  or  reddish  tints  where  wounded.  Tubes  tenacious,  at 
first  pale  yellow,  becoming  darker  or  dingy  ochraceous  with  age,  some- 
times changing  to  pinkish-brown  where  bruised,  concealed  in  the  young 
plant  by  the  copious  whitish  webby  veil.  Stem  equal  or  nearly  so, 
solid,  slightly  and  somewhat  evanescently  annulate,  clothed  and  colored 
like  or  a  little  paler  than  the  pileus,  yellowish  at  the  top.  Spores 
ochraceous,  9— 11x4— 5/*. 

Pileus  2-4  ia.  broad.      Stem  i-5-3  m-  l°ng>  3-6  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  mossy  swamps.  New  York,  Peck;  New  England,  Frost; 
North  Carolina,  Curtis.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  1882.  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  Angora,  West 
Philadelphia,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  August  and  September.  In  mixed 
woods,  principally  oak.  Leominster,  Mass.  C '.  F.  Nixon,  Ph.  G. 

It  is  sometimes  found  upon  much  decayed  chestnut  stumps. 

The  caps  of  some  species  are  so  cracked  as  to  appear  distinctly 
areolate.  The  white  webby  veil  is  often  persistent.  The  fungus  is  one 
of  the  handsomest.  Its  rich  variegated  colors  impress  it  upon  eye-mem- 
ory. It  is  one  of  the  very  best  edible  species. 


400 


B.  palus'ter  Pk. — Pileus  thin, 
broadly  convex,  plane  or  slightly 
depressed,  sometimes  with  a  small 
umbo,  floccose-tomentose,  bright  red. 
Tubes  very  large,  slightly  decurrent, 
yellow,  becoming  ochraceous  or  dingy 
ochraceous.  Stem  slender,  solid,  sub- 
glabrous,  red,  yellowish  at  the  top. 
Spores  pinkish-brown,  8-9x4^. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.  Stem  1-2  in. 
long,  2-3  lines  thick. 

Wet  places  and  sphagnous  mossy 
swamps.  New  York,  Peck.  Maine, 
Harvey.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Angora,  West  Philadelphia  and  Mt. 
Gretna,  Pa.  September.  Mcllvaine. 

A  few  specimens  found  at  Mt. 
Gretna  had  stems  slightly  reticulated. 


(Plate  CXIIrt.) 


Boletinus. 


BOLETINUS    PALUSTER. 

Natural  size.     (After  Peck.) 

Its  taste  is  sweet,  smell  mild, 


and  cooked  it  is  of  excellent  body  and  flavor. 

B.  deci'piens  (B.  and  C.)  Pk.  Pileus  dry,  minutely  silky,  whitish- 
yellow  or  pale-buff,  flesh  buff,  one-third  in.  thick;  hymenium  plane 
or  somewhat  concave,  yellow,  consisting  of  large,  unequal,  flexuous 
radiating  tubes  resembling  multiseptate  lamellae.  Stem  equal,  solid  but 
spongy.  Veil  floccose,  evanescent,  adhering  for  a  time  to  the  margin 
of  the  pileus.  Spores  rather  minute,  oblong,  ochraceo- ferruginous  (rusty 
yellow),  8-10x3.5-4/01. 

Pileus  2  in.  broad.     Stem  2-2.5  m-  l°ng>  3-4  lmes  thick. 

Thin  woods.     North  and  South  Carolina.     M.  A.  Curtis. 

Specimens  of  this  species  have  not  been  seen  by  me.  The  authors 
remark  that  its  affinities  are  clearly  with  Boletinus  flavidus  and  its  allies, 
from  which  it  is  distinguished  by  its  large  radiating  pores.  They  also 
say  that  when  dry  it  is  scarcely  distinguishable  from  Paxillus  porosus 
Berk.,  except  by  its  spores.  This  would  imply  that  its  stem  is  eccen- 
tric or  lateral,  and  I  have  been  informed  by  Mr.  Ravenel  that  it  is  some- 
times so.  But  specimens  of  this  kind,  labeled  Boletinus  decipiens  B. 
and  C.,  have  been  received,  which  show  by  their  spores  that  they  are 
Paxillus  porosus.  Besides,  Professor  Farlow  informs  me  that  authentic 
26  401 


Polyporaceae 

Boietinus.  specimens  of  B.  decipiens  in  the  Curtisian  Herbarium  have  only  central 
stems,  from  which  things  I  suspect  that  the  two  species  have  been  con- 
fused. The  spore  dimensions  here  given  are  derived  from  a  specimen 
in  the  Curtis  Herbarium,  through  the  kindness  of  Professor  Farlow. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

I  have  not  recognized  this  Boietinus.  Its  affinities  are  with  excellent 
edible  species. 

B.  poro'silS  (Berk.)  Pk.  (Plate  CXIII.)  Pileus  fleshy,  viscid  when 
moist,  shining,  reddish-brown.  Flesh  3-9  lines  thick,  the  margin  thin 
and  even  ;  hymenium  porous,  yellow,  formed  by  radiating  lamellae  a  line 
to  half  a  line  distant,  branching  and  connected  by  numerous  irregular 
veins  of  less  prominence  and  forming  large  angular  pores.  Stem  lateral, 
tough,  diffused  into  the  pileus,  reticulated  at  the  top  by  the  decurrent 
walls  of  the  tubes,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  semi-ovate. 

Pileus  2-5  in.  broad.      Stem  6-1 6  lines  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Var.  opa'cus  (Paxillus  porosus  Berk.,  Bull.  N.  Y.  State  Mus.  2,  p. 
32).  Pileus  dry,  glabrous  or  subtomentose,  not  shining,  brown  or 
tawny-brown.  Spores  brownish-ochraceous,  9-nx6-8/A. 

Damp  ground  in  woods  and  open  places.  Ohio,  Lea,  Morgan;  North 
Carolina,  Curtis;  New  England,  Frost,  Farlow ;  Wisconsin,  Bundy; 
New  York,  Peck. 

This  species  is  remarkable  for  its  lateral  or  eccentric  stem.  There 
is  often  an  emargination  in  the  pileus  on  the  side  of  the  stem  which 
gives  it  a  kidney  shape.  In  the  typical  form  it  is  described  as  viscid 
when  moist,  and  the  Wisconsin  plant  is  also  described  as  viscid,  but  in 
all  the  New  York  specimens  that  I  have  seen  it  is  dry  and  sometimes 
minutely  tomentose.  I  have,  therefore,  separated  these  as  a  variety. 
The  color  of  the  pileus  varies  from  yellowish-brown  to  reddish-brown  or 
umber.  A  disagreeable  odor  is  sometimes  present.  The  tubes  are 
rather  short  and  tough  and  do  not  easily  separate  from  the  hymeno- 
phore  and  from  each  other.  In  the  young  plant  they  are  not  separable. 
They  sometimes  become  slightly  blue  where  wounded.  As  in  other 
species  they  are  pale  yellow  when  young,  but  become  darker  or  dingy- 
ochraceous  with  age.  The  spores  have  been  described  as  bright  yel- 
low, but  I  do  not  find  them  so  in  the  New  York  plant.  The  plant  is. 
incongruous  among  the  Paxilli  by  reason  of  its  wholly  porous  hymenium, 

402 


PLATE  CXIII. 


DO 

O 

f- 

m 
H 

z 

c 

CO 


O 

33 

O 

CO 

C 

CO 


Polyporacese 

but  in  this  place  it  seems  to  be  among  its  true  allies.     Peck,  Boleti  of  Boiethms. 
the  U.  S. 

Fine  specimens  were  sent  to  me  by  Mr.  H.I.  Miller,  Terre  Haute, 
and  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist,  Richmond,  Ind.  They  were  in  condition  to  be 
eaten  and  enjoyed.  No  disagreeable  odor  was  perceptible. 

B.  borealis  Pk.  PileilS  fleshy,  convex,  obtuse  or  subumbonate, 
brownish-yellow,  obscurely  and  somewhat  reticulately  streaked  with 
reddish-brown  lines.  Pores  large,  angular,  unequal,  slightly  decur- 
rent,  brownish-yellow.  Stem  short,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward, 
brownish-yellow  with  a  whitish  myceloid  tomentum  at  the  base.  Spores 
oblong,  IO-I2.5X4-5/A. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  about  I  in.  long. 

Sandy  soil.      Capstan  Island,  Labrador.      October.      Waghorne. 

The  markings  of  the  pileus  appear  as  if'  due  to  the  drying  of  a  glutin- 
ous substance.  The  radiating  lamellae  and  the  transverse  partitions  of 
the  interspaces  are  very  plainly  shown.  Described  from  two  dried  speci- 
mens. Peckt  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  22,  No.  5. 


403 


Polyporaceae 

BOLE'TUS  Dill. 
Gr. — a  clod. 


Boletus.  ^^•^jS^'HE  name  of  a  fungus  considered  a  great  delicacy 

among  the  Romans,  derived  from  bolos,  a  clod, 
probably  to  denote  the  round  figure  of  the  plant. 
Hymenium  wholly  composed  of   small  tubes, 
connected  together  in  a  stratum,  the  surface  of 
which  is  dotted  with  their  poriform  mouths,  and 
which  is  distinct  from  the  hymenophore  on  ac- 
count of  the  latter  not  descending  into  a  trama.     Tubes  packed  close 
together,  .easily  separating  from  the  hymenophore  and  from  one  another. 
Pores  or  mouths  of  the  tubes  round  or  angular  (in  the  subgenus  Gyrodon 
sinuous  or  gyroso-plicate).      Spores  normally  fusiform,  rarely  oval  or 
somewhat  round.      Growing  on  the  ground,  fleshy,  putrescent,  with  cen- 
tral stems.     Mostly  edible,  and  of  importance  as  articles  of  food;  a  few 
poisonous.     Fries. 

No  American  species  in  Gyrodon.  It  is  therefore  omitted  in  synopsis 
of  tribes.  C.  M. 

This  genus  abounds  in  species  and  is  related  to  Boletinus  on  one  hand 
and  to  Polyporus  on  the  other.  From  the  latter  it  is  distinguished  by 
the  absence  of  a  trama  and  from  both  by  the  tubes  being  easily  separa- 
ble from  the  hymenophore  and  from  each  other.  Some  of  the  species 
are  very  variable,  others  are  so  closely  allied  that  they  appear  to  almost 
run  together. 

The  species  are  generally  terrestrial,  but  B.  hemichrysus  is  habitually 
wood-growing,  and  others  are  occasionally  so. 

The  spores  vary  so  much  in  color  in  such  closely  related  species  that 
this  character  is  scarcely  available  for  general  classification,  but  it  is  val- 
uable as  a  specific  character  and  should  always  be  noted. 

SYNOPSIS  OF  THE  TRIBES. 

Pileus  and  stem  yellow-pulverulent,  stem  not  reticulated 

with   veins (p.  421.)      Pulverulent! 

Pileus  and  stem  not  yellow-pulverulent,  or  if  so  then 

the  stem  reticulated  with  veins I 

I.    Tubes    yellowish    with  reddish,   or  reddish-brown 

mouths (p.  453.)      Luridi 

404 


PLATE  CXIV. 


ig 

05  ^° 
•A  O 

03  > 


PLATE  CXXIXa. 


Photograph  by  Huron  H.  Smith. 

POLYPORUS  SULPHUREUS. 


Oregon. 


Polyporaceae 

I.    Tubes  of  one  color,  or  mouths  not  reddish 2  Boietns. 

2.    Stem  lacunose-reticulated and  lacerated. (p.  436.)  Laceripedes 

2.    Stem  reticulated  with  veins,  not  lacerated 3 

2 .    Stem  not  reticulated 5 

3.    Tubes  white,  becoming  flesh-colored.  .  .(p.  466.)      Hyporhodii 

3.    Tubes  not  becoming  flesh-colored 4 

4.    Tubes  free, or  if  adnate  then  stuffed  when  young,  (p. 444.)  Edules 
4.    Tubes  adnate,  not  stuffed  when  young,  (p.  438.)      Calopodes 

5.    Pileus  viscid  or  glutinous  when  moist 6 

5 .    Pileus  dry 7 

6.    Tubes  adnate (p.  406.  )     Viscipelles 

6.    Tubes  free  or  nearly  so,  yellowish (p.  444.)     Edules 

6.    Tubes  free  or  nearly  so,  whitish (p.  459.)     Versipelles 

7 .    Stem  solid 8 

7.    Stemspongy  within,  soon  cavernous  or  hollow.  .  (p.  471-)     Cariosi 

8.    Tubes  becoming  flesh-colored (p.  466. )      Hyporhodii 

8.    Tubes  not  becoming  flesh-colored 9 

9.    Tubes  adnate 10 

9.    Tubes  free  or  nearly  so 1 1 

10.    Pileus  subtomentose (p.  430.)     Subtomentosi 

10.    Pileus  glabrous  or  pruinose (p.  423.)      Subpruinosi 

1 1.    Tubes  yellowish  or  stuffed  when  young (p.  444.)     Edules 

1 1 .    Tubes  whitish,  not  stuffed ( P-  459- )     Versipelles 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

C.  H.  Peck,  N.  Y.  State  Botanist,  has  contributed  to  Mycological 
literature  his  careful  arrangement  and  analysis  of  species  of  this  genus, 
in  his  "Boleti  of  the  United  States."  Species  of  the  genus  are  found  in 
every  state  of  the  Union.  Several  species  are  common  to  all  the  states. 
Comprehending,  as  do  the  states,  all  sorts  of  climates  within  their  vast 
range  of  latitude,  differences  in  appearance  and  structure  in  the  same 
species  must  be  expected,  dependent  largely,  as  they  are  in  most  fungi, 
upon  habitat  and  environment.  These  variations  will  frequently  sug- 
gest new  species.  Descriptions  which  are  typical  and  which  can  be 
recognized  as  standard  are  most  desirable.  Professor  Peck's  are  ac- 
cepted by  the  writer  as  such,  that  there  may  be  uniformity,  and  are 
quoted  as  fully  as  space  will  permit.  Such  variations  as  are  attributa- 
ble to  locality  will  be  noted. 

405 


Polyporaceee 

Boletus.  Since  1882  the  writer  has  given  great  attention  to  the  edible  qualities 
of  the  Boleti.  He  is  convinced  by  many  personal  tests  and  those  made 
by  his  family  and  friends,  that  much,  if  not  all,  of  the  suspicion  thrown 
about  Boleti  is  unjust  and  erroneous.  He  is  able  to  state  positively  that 
change  of  color  when  bruised  or  broken ;  bitter  and  pepperiness  have 
nothing  whatever  to  do  with  the  edible  qualities  of  species  exhibiting 
them,  excepting  in  B.  felleus,  which  exhibits  an  intense  bitter,  not  lost 
in  cooking.  It  is  not  poisonous. 

The  writer  has  the  courage  of  his  convictions,  and  has  taken  interest 
in  eating  species  with  a  bad  reputation  whenever  opportunity  afforded, 
that  their  just  dues  might  be  given  them.  He  has  never  experienced 
the  slightest  inconvenience.-  But  others  may  not  be  so  fortunate. 

Before  cooking  Boleti  the  stem,  unless  crisp  and  tender,  should  be 
removed,  as  should  the  tubes  unless  young  and  fresh.  They  broil,  fry, 
stew,  make  good  soups  and  dry  well.  See  recipes. 

It  is  believed  that  all  species  of  Boleti  up  to  this  time  found  in 
America  are  described  in  this  volume.  When  no  remarks  of  the  writer 
follow  the  descriptions,  he  has  not  had  an  opportunity  to  test  the  edible 
quality  of  the  species. 

VlSClPELLES — viscum,  bird  lime;  pellfc,  a  skin. 

Pileus  covered  with  a  viscose  pellicle.  Stem  solid,  neither  bulbous, 
lacerated  nor  reticulated  with  veins.  Tubes  adnate,  rarely  sinuate,  of 
one  color. 

The  first  four  and  several  of  the  final  species  here  described  recede 
somewhat  from  the  character  of  the  central  or  typical  species  of  the 
group. 

Stem  with  an  annulus I 

Stem  without  an  annulus 9 

I.    Stem  dotted  boch  above  and  below  the  annulus 2 

I .    Stem  dotted  above  the  annulus 3 

I .    Stem  not  dotted 4 

2.    Tubes  salmon  color B.  salmonicolor 

2.    Tubes  yellowish B.  subluteus 

3 .    Annulus  entirely  viscose B.  flavidus 

3.    Annulus  membranous,  fugacious B.  elegans 

3.    Annulus  membranous,  persistent B.  luteus 

406 


Polyporace® 

4.    Pileus  squamose B.  spectabilis  Boletus. 

4.    Pileus  not  squamose „ 5 

5 .    Tubes  whitish  or  grayish . 6 

5 .    Tubes  yellow  or  yellowish 7 

6.    Flesh  white,  unchangeable B.  Elbensis 

6.    Flesh  white,  changing  to  bluish B.  serotinus 

7.    Spores  globose  or  broadly  elliptical B.  sphaerosporus 

7.    Spores  much  longer  than  broad 8 

8.    Annulus  fugacious B.  flavus 

8.    Annulus  persistent B.  Clintonianus 

9.    Stem  dotted  with  glandules 10 

9.    Stem  not  dotted , 16 

10.    Pileus  some  shade  of  yellow •. 1 1 

10.    Pileus  some  other  color , 15 

1 1 .    Stem  rhubarb  color B.  punctipes 

1 1 .    Stem  some  other  color 1 2 

12.    Stem  four  lines  or  more  thick 13 

12.    Stem  less  than  four  lines  thick B.  Americanus 

13.    Pileus  adorned  with  tufts  of  hairs  or  fibrils B.  hirtellus 

1 3 .    Pileus  glabrous 14 

14.    Stem  yellow  within B.  subaureus 

14.    Stem  whitish  or  yellowish-white  within B.  granulatus 

1 5 .    Pileus  white B.  albus 

15.    Pileus  not  white B.  granulatus 

16.    Stem   squamulose. 17 

1 6.    Stem  not  squamulose , 18 

17.    Pileus  dull  red B.  dichrous 

17.    Pileus  some  other  color B.  collinitus 

18.    Pileous  yellow 19 

1 8 .    Pileus  bay-red  or  chestnut 20 

18.    Pileus  some  other  color 21 

19.    Flesh  pale-yellow B.  unicolor 

19.    Flesh  white B.  bovinus 

20.    Stem  short,  »one  inch  or  less B.  brevipes 

20.    Stem  longer,  two  inches  or  more B.  badius 

21.    Tubes  olivaceous  or  golden-yellow B.  mitis 

2 1 .    Tubes  ferruginous 22 

22.    Taste  mild B.  rubinellus 

407 


Polyporaceae 


Boletus.          22.    Taste  acrid  or  peppery. .  .  . 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S.,  p.  83. 


,  B.  piperatus 


(Plate  CXV.) 


BOLETUS  SPECTABILIS. 
Natural  size. 


B.  specta'bilis  Pk. — spectabilis,  distinguished.  Pileus  broadly  con- 
vex, at  first  covered  with  a  red  to- 
mentum,  then  scaly,  viscid  when 
moist,  red,  the  tomentose  scales  be- 
coming grayish-red,  brownish  or  yel- 
lowish. Flesh  whitish  or  pale-yellow. 
Tubes  at  first  yellow  and  concealed 
by  a  reddish  glutinous  membrane, 
thenochraceous,  convex,  large,  angu- 
lar, adnate.  Stem  nearly  equal,  an- 
nulate, yellow  above  the  annulus,  red 
or  red  with  yellow  stains  below. 
Spores  purplish-brown ,  13—15  x6— 7/*. 
Pileus  2-5  in.  broad.  Stem  3-5 
in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Thin  woods  in  swamps.  New  York, 
Peck;  Wisconsin,  Btmdy. 

This  is  a  rare  and  showy  species 
which  inhabits  the  cold  northern  swamps  of  the  country.  It  probably 
extends  into  Canada.  When  cut,  the  flesh  emits  a  strong,  unpleasant 
odor.  Wounds  of  the  flesh  made  by  insects  or  other  small  animals  have 
a  bright-yellow  color!  When  young,  the  tomentose  veil  covers  the 
whole  plant,  but  it  soon  parts  into  scales  on  the  pileus  and  partly  or 
wholly  disappears  from  the  stem.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 
London,  Can.,  7.  Dearness ;  Peck,  Rep.  44,  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

B.  Elben'sis  Pk.  Pileus  convex,  glabrous,  viscid  when  moist,  dingy 
gray  or  pinkish-gray  inclining  to  brownish,  obscurely  spotted  or  streaked 
as  if  with  patches  of  innate  fibrils.  Flesh  white.  Tubes  at  first  whitish, 
becoming  dingy  or  brownish-ochraceous,  nearly  plane,  adnate  or  slightly 
decurrent,  rather  large,  angular.  Stem  nearly  equal,  annulate-  whitish 
above  the  ring,  colored  like  the  pileus  below,  sometimes  slightly  reticu- 
lated at  the  top.  Spores  ferruginous-brown,  10-12x4-5^. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.  Stem  3-5  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick.  Thin 
woods  of  tamarack,  spruce  and  balsam.  New  York.  Peck. 

408 


Polyporaceae 

Its  locality  is  thus  far  limited  to  the  Adirondack  region  of  this  state.  Boletus. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  sero'tinus  Frost. — late.  Bulletin  Buffalo  Soc.  Nat.  Sci.,  1874. 
Pileus  flat  or  convex,  viscid,  sordid  brown,  streaked  with  the  remnants 
of  the  veil,  especially  near  the  margin,  which  is  white,  very  thin,  and 
when  partly  grown  singularly  pendent.  Flesh  white,  changing  to  bluish. 
Tubes  large,  angular,  unequal,  slightly  decurrent,  at  first  sordid  white 
or  gray,  sometimes  tinged  with  green  near  the  stem,  afterward  cinna- 
mon-yellow. Stem  reticulated  above  the  ring  which  adheres  partly  to 
it  and  partly  to  the  margin  of  the  pileus,  white  but  stained  by  the 
brownish  spores  and  tinged  with  yellow  at  maturity.  Spores  iox6jK. 

Shaded  grassy  ground.      New  England,  Frost. 

Probably  this  is  only  a  variety  of  the  preceding  species.  Peck,  Boleti 
of  the  U.  S. 

B.  salmoni'eolor  Frost.  Bull.  Buff.  Soc.  Nat.  Sci.,  1874.  Pileus 
convex,  soft,  very  glutinous,  brownish  or  tawny-white  with  a  faint  tinge 
of  red,  wine-color  when  dry,  the  margin  thin.  Flesh  tinged  with  red. 
Tubes  simple,  even,  angular,  adnate,  pale  salmon  color.  Stem  small, 
dotted  above  with  bright  ferruginous  red,  sordid  below,  annulus  dingy 
salmon-color.  Spores  8x2.5/4. 

Borders  of  pine  woods.     New  England.     Frost. 

Apparently  a  distinct  species.  No  specimens  seen.  Peck,  Boleti  of 
the  U.  S. 

B.  el'egans  Schum.  Pileus  convex  or  plane,  viscose,  golden-yellow 
or  somewhat  rust-color.  Flesh  pale-yellow.  Tubes  decurrent,  golden 
or  sulphur-yellow,  the  mouths  minute,  simple.  Stem  unequal,  firm, 
golden  or  reddish,  dotted  above  the  fugacious  white  or  pale-yellowisk 
annulus. 

Pileus  3-4-5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long. 

Woods,  especially  under  or  near  larch  trees.  North  Carolina,  Curtis; 
Wisconsin,  Bundy;  Minnesota,  Johnson.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Cordier  and  Gillet  give  the  species  as  edible  though  not  delicate. 

West  Philadelphia  on  lawns  under  larches,  1887-1891.     Mcllvaine. 

The  caps  are  of  good  flavor  and  consistency.  They  are  best  fried  or 
broiled. 

409 


Polyporacese 

Boletus.  B.  Clin'tonianus  Pk.  PileilS  convex,  very  viscid  or  glutinous,  glab- 
rous, soft,  shining,  golden-yellow,  reddish-yellow  or  chestnut  color,  the 
margin  thin.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  becoming  less  bright  or  dingy  on  ex- 
posure to  the  air.  Tubes  nearly  plane,  adnate  or  subdecurrent,  small, 
angular  or  subrotund,  pale-yellow,  becoming  dingy-ochraceous  with 
age,  changing  to  brown  or  purplish-brown  where  bruised.  Stem  equal 
or  slightly  thickened  toward  the  base,  straight  or  flexuous,  yellow  at  the 
top,  reddish  or  reddish-brown  below  the  annulus,  sometimes  varied  with 
yellow  stains,  the  annulus  white  or  yellow,  persistent,  forming  a  thick 
band  about  the  stem.  Spores  brownish-ochraceous ,  I 0-11x4-5^. 

Pileus  2-5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-5  in.  long,  4-9  lines  thick. 

Mossy  or  grassy  ground  in  woods  or  open  places,  especially  under  or 
near  tamarack  trees.  New  York,  Peck;  New  England,  Frost. 

This  is  apparently  closely  related  to  B.  elegans,  from  which  it  differs 
in  its  thick  persistent  ring,  in  its  stem  which  is  not  at  all  dotted  and  in 
its  longer  and  darker-colored  spores.  Its  smaller  tube's  and  persistent 
ring  separate  it  also  from  B.  flavus.  In  the  typical  form  the  pileus  is 
bay-red  or  chestnut  color,  but  plants  growing  in  open  places  generally 
have  it  yellowish  or  reddrsh-yellow.  It  is  mild  to  the  taste  and  I  have 
eaten  it  sparingly.  It  sometimes  grows  in  tufts.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  inflex'us  Pk. — curving.  PileilS  convex,  glabrous,  viscid,  yellow, 
often  red  or  reddish  on  the  disk,  the  margin  thin,  inflexed,  concealing 
the  marginal  tubes.  Flesh  whitish,  not  changing  color  where  wounded. 
Tubes  rather  long,  adnate,  yellowish,  becoming  dingy-yellow  with  age, 
the  mouths  small,  dotted  with  reddish  glandules.  Stem  rather  slender, 
not  ringed,  solid,  viscid,  dotted  with  livid-yellow  glandules.  Spores 
yellowish,  10— 12x4— 5/*. 

Pileus  about  i  in.  broad.    Stem  about  2  in.  long,  2-4  lines  thick. 

Open  woods.     Trexlertown.      September.     Herbst. 

This  Boletus  belongs  to  the  tribe  Viscipelles.  It  is  remarkable  for  and 
easily  recognized  by  the  inflexed  margin  of  the  pileus,  which  imitates  to 
some  extent  the  appendiculate  veil  of  Boletus  versipellis.  It  sometimes 
grows  in  tufts.  The  paper  in  which  fresh  specimens  were  wrapped  was 
stained  yellow.  Boletus  Braunii  Bres.  has  an  inflexed  margin,  but  that 
is  a  much  larger  plant  with  a  yellowish-brown  pileus,  a  fibrillose  stem 
and  much  smaller  spores.  Peek,  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  22,  No.  5. 

410 


B.  fla'vilS  With.     Pileus  convex,  compact,  covered  with  a  brownish  Boletus, 
separating  gluten,  pale-yellow.     Flesh  pale-yellow.     Tubes  large,  angu- 
lar,   adnate,   yellow.     Stem    yellow,    becoming    brownish,    reticulated 
above  the  membranous  fugacious  dirty  yellowish  annulus.      Spores  8— 
IOX3-4/X. 

Pileus  2-5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  6-10  lines  thick. 

Woods.      Minnesota,  Johnson;  Wisconsin,  Bundy. 

This  is  apparently  a  rare  species  in  this  country.  I  have  not  seen  it. 
It  is  said  to  resemble  B.  luteus,  from  which  it  is  separated  by  the  large 
angular  mouths  of  the  tubes.  In  British  Fungi  the  spores  are  described 
as  "spindle-shaped,  yellowish-brown;"  in  Sylloge,  as  "ovoid-oblong, 
acute  at  the  base,  granulose,  pale  ochraceous."  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
U.  S. 

B.  fistulo'silS  Pk.  Pileus  convex,  viscid,  glabrous,  yellow,  the 
margin  at  first  incurved  or  involute.  Flesh  yellow.  Tubes  plane  or 
subventricose,  medium  size,  round  with  thin  walls,  adnate  or  sometimes 
depressed  around  the  stem,  yellow.  Stem  rather  slender,  subequal, 
viscid,  glabrous,  hollow,  yellow,  with  a  white  mycelioid  tomentum  at 
the  base.  Spores  elliptical,  13x6^. 

Pileus  about  i  in.  broad.     Stem  2-'4  in.  long,  about  3  lines  thick. 

Grassy  woods.      Auburn,  Ala.      July.      Underwood. 

A  small  but  pretty  species  of  a  yellow  color  throughout.  It  is  re- 
markable for  its  hollow  stem,  which  is  suggestive  of  the  specific  name. 
It  is  referable  to  the  tribe  Viscipelles.  Pefk,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club, 
Vol.  24,  No.  3. 

B.  sphseros'porus  Pk. — globose-spored.  (Bulletin  Torrey  Botanical 
Club,  Vol.  XII.)  Pileus  at  first  hemispherical,  then  convex,  glabrous, 
viscid,  creamy-yellow,  becoming  reddish-brown  or  chestnut  color  with 
age.  Flesh  pale  yellowish-brown.  Tubes  adnate  or  slightly  decur- 
rent,  large,  angular,  pale-yellow,  becoming  brown,  sometimes  tinged 
with  green.  Stem  stout,  equal,  even  or  slightly  reticulated  at  the  top, 
the  membranous  anmilus  persistent,  sometimes  partly  adhering  to  the 
margin  of  the  pileus.  Spores  globose  or  broadly  elliptical,  8~9/*  long. 

PileilS  3-8  in.  broad.      Stem  1-3  in.  long,  6-12  lines  thick. 

Low  ravines  and  sandy  places.    Wisconsin,  Trelease;  Iowa,  Me  Bride. 

The  spores  easily  serve  to  distinguish  this  species  from  its  allies.  The 

411 


Polyporaceee 


Boletus.  European  B.  sphaerocephalus  has  ovoid  spores,  but  its  tube  mouths  are 
minute  and  rotund  and  its  stem  is  densely  squamose.     Peck,  Boleti  of 

the  U.  S. 

B.  lu'teus  L. — yellow.  PileuS  gibbous  or  convex,  covered  with  a 
brownish  separating  gluten,  becoming  yellowish-brown  and  virgate- 
spotted.  Flesh  white.  Tubes  adnate,  minute,  simple,  yellow,  becom- 
ing darker  with  age.  Stem  stout,  yellowish  and  dotted  above  the  large 
membranous  brownish-white  annulus,  brownish-white  or  yellowish  below. 
Spores  fusiform,  yellowish-brown,  6— 7x3— 4/x.. 

PileuS  2-5  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  6-10  lines  thick. 

Pine  woods  and  groves.      New  York,  Peck. 

B.  luteus  has  an  international  reputation  for  edibility.  I  have  found  it 
at  Waretown  and  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  ;  in  Bartram's  Garden,  West  Phila- 
delphia, always  under  pines.  At  Waretown  it  was  gregarious.  Pine 
needles,  sand,  anything  through  which  it  grows,  adheres  to  the  glutin- 
ous cap.  It  must  be  carefully  cleaned  before  cooking.  It  is  then  of 
choice  consistency  and  good  flavor. 


(Plate  CXVa.) 


B.  Sllblu'teuS  Pk. — luteus,  yellow.     PileuS  convex  or  nearly  plane, 

viscid  or  glutinous  when  moist,  often 
obscurely  virgate-spotted,  dingy -yel- 
lowish, inclining  to  rusty-brown. 
Flesh  whitish,  varying  to  dull-yel- 
lowish. Tubes  plane  or  convex,  ad- 
nate, small,  subrotund,  yellow  be- 
coming ochraceous.  Stem  equal, 
slender,  pallid  or  yellowish,  dotted 
both  above  and  below  the  ring  with 
reddish  or  brownish  glandules ;  ring 
submembranous,  glutinous >  at  first 
concealing  the  tubes,  then  generally 
collapsing  and  forming  a  narrow 
whitish  or  brownish  band  around  the 
stem .  Spores  subf usiform ,  ochraceo- 

Pileus  1.5-3  in-  broad.     Stem  1.5-2.5  in. 


SECTION  OF  BOLETUS  SUBLUTEUS. 


ferruginous,   8-10x4-5^. 
long,  2-4  lines  thick. 


412 


Polyporaceae 

Sandy  soil  in  pine  woods.  New  York,  Peck,  Clinton;  New  England, 
Frost. 

The  species  is  closely  related  to  B.  luteus,  from  which  it  differs  in  its 
smaller  size,  more  slender  stem  and  glutinous  collapsing  veil.  Peck, 
Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Found  at  Waretown,  N.  J.,  1887,  under  pines  and  in  same  locality 
as  B.  luteus,  for  which  it  can  be  readily  mistaken.  It  is  usually  covered 
with  adherent  sand  or  pine  needles.  Its  flesh  is  tender  with  a  pleasant 
glutinosity.  Flavor  good. 

B.  fla'vidllS  Fr. — light  yellowish.  PiletlS  thin,  gibbous,  then  plane, 
viscose,  livid,  yellowish.  Flesh  pallid.  Tubes  decurrent,  with  large 
angular  compound  months,  dirty  yellowish.  Stem  slender,  subequal, 
pallid,  sprinkled  with  fugacious  glandules  above  the  entirely  viscose  ring. 
Spores  oblong-ellipsoid,  straight,  subhyaline,  8-10x3-4^1. 

PileilS  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick. 

Pine  woods  and  swamps.  Pennsylvania,  Schweinitz;  North  Carolina, 
Curtis;  New  England,  Frost;  California,  H.  and  M.;  Rhode  Island, 
Bennett. 

Fries  says  that  this  species  is  more  slender  than  its  allies,  and  differs 
from  them  all  in  its  merely  glutinous  veil.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Dr.  Curtis,  of  North  Carolina,  places  it  among  edible  species. 

Many  specimens  were  found  by  the  writer  near  Waretown  and  Had- 
donfield,  N.  J.,  and  a  few  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  The  stems  are  thin  and 
slightly  spreading  at  the  top.  They  are  hard.  The  caps  are  excellent. 

B.  America'llUS  Pk.  Pileus  thin,  convex  or  nearly  plane,  sometimes 
umbonate,  soft,  very  viscid  or  glutinous  when  moist,  slightly  tomentose 
on  the  margin  when  young,  soon  glabrous  or  the  margin  sometimes 
remaining  scaly,  rarely  scale-spotted  from  the  drying  of  the  gluten, 
yellow,  becoming  dingy  or  less  bright  with  age,  sometimes  vaguely 
dotted  or  streaked  with  bright  red.  Flesh  pale-yellow,  less  clear  or 
pinkish-gray  on  exposure  to  the  air.  Tubes  plane  or  convex,  adnate, 
rather  large,  angular,  pale-yellow,  becoming  sordid-ochraceous.  Stem 
slender,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  firm,  not  at  all  annulate, 
yellow,  often  pallid  or  brownish  toward  the  base,  marked  with  numerous 
brown  or  reddish-brown  persistent  glandular  dots,  yellow  within.  Spores 
oblong  or  subfusiform,  ochraceo-ferruginous,  9—1 1x4— 5^. 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus.       Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-2.5  in.  long,  2-4  lines  thick. 

Woods,  swamps  and  open  places,  especially  under  or  near  pine  trees. 
New  York,  Peck,  Clinton;  Minnesota,  Arthur. 

A  slight  subacid  odor  is  sometimes  perceptible  in  our  plant.  It 
sometimes  grows  on  much  decayed  wood.  Its  mycelium  is  white. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

The  caps,  only,  are  good. 

B.  Sllbau'reus  Pk. — sub  and  aureus,  golden.  (Plate  CXIV,  fig.  2, 
p.  414.)  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  viscose,  pale-yellow,  some- 
times adorned  with  darker  spots,  the  young  margin  slightly  grayish- 
tomentose.  Flesh  pale-yellow.  Tubes  small  or  medium',  somewhat 
angular,  adnate  or  subdecurrent,  pale-yellow  becoming  dingy-ochrace- 
ous.  Stem  equal,  stout,  glandular-dotted,  yellow  without  and  within. 
Spores  oblong  or  subfusiform,  ochraceo-ferruginous,  8—10x4/1.. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-2.5  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Thin  woods  and  open  places.  New  York,  Peck;  North  Carolina,  C. 
J.  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Mississippi,  G.  Survey  (Rep.  51). 

This  plant  might  almost  be  considered  a  stout  variety  of  the  preced- 
ing, but  in  addition  to  its  thicker  pileus  and  stouter  stem,  it  has  smaller 
tubes  of  a  clearer  yellow  color,  and  the  exuding  drops  are  yellow,  not 
whitish,  as  in  that  species.  In  habit  it  appears  more  like  B.  granulatus, 
from  which  it  is  distinct  in  color.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

From  early  October,  through  heavy  frosts  and  until  long  after  No- 
vember snows  I  found  this  species  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  in  1897—1898. 
Specimens  were  sent  to  Professor  Peck  and  identified  as  this  species.  It 
grew  in  grass  on  borders  of  woods,  or  gravelly  ground,  sometimes 
among  pine  needles.  Large  troops  of  it  were  frequent,  and  tufts  con- 
taining many  individuals  were  common. 

I  regard  B.  subaureus  as  among  the  most  valuable  of  our  food  species. 
Its  plentifulness,  lateness,  excellent  quality  will  commend  it  to  all  My- 
cophagists.  It  can  be  cooked  in  any  way.  The  tubes  need  not  be  re- 
moved. 

B.  hirtel'lus  Pk. — slightly  hairy.  Pileus  broadly  convex,  soft, 
viscose,  golden-yellow,  adorned  with  small  tufts  of  hairs  or  fibrils. 
Flesh  pale-yellow.  Tubes  adnate,  medium  size,  angular,  becoming 

4H 


Polyporaceee 

dingy-ochraceous.      Stem  subcespitose,  equal,  stout,  glandular  dotted,   Boletus, 
yellow.      Spores  pale,  ocJiraceous-brown,  9—10x4/4. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Sandy  soil  under  pine  trees.      New  York,  Peck. 

This  species  is  very  rare  and  was  formerly  confused  with  the  preced- 
ing from  which  it  is  separated  by  the  hairy  adornment  of  the  pileus  and 
the  darker,  more  brown  color  of  the  spores.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  punc'tipes  Pk. — punctum,  a  dot;  pes,  a  foot.  Pileus  convex  or 
nearly  plane,  glutinous  when  moist,  yellow,  the  thin  margin  at  first 
minutely  grayish-pulverulent,  becoming  recurved  with  age.  Tubes 
short,  nearly  plane,  adnate,  small,  subrotund,  at  first  brownish,  then 
sordid-ochraceous.  Stem  rather  long,  tapering  ifpward,  grandular- 
dotted,  rhubarb-yellow.  Spores  9— 10x4-5;*. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick.  Mixed 
woods.  New  York,  Peck. 

The  rhubarb-colored  stem  and  the  brownish  color  of  the  young  hy- 
menium  a»"e  the  distinguishing  features  of  this  species.  The  glandules 
occur  also  on  the  tubes.  The  species  is  rare.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
U.  S. 

Not  seen  by  Professor  Peck  since  its  discovery  in  1878. 

Spores  when  first  dropped  are  olive-green  on  white  paper,  but  the 
green  hue  soon  changes  to  brownish-ochraceous.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N. 
Y.  State  Bot. 

Ontario,  Prof.  Dearness  (Lloyd,  R.  4). 

B.  al'btlS  Pk. — v/hite.  Pileus  convex,  viscid  when  moist,  white, 
Flesh  white  or  yellowish.  Tubes  plane,  small  or  medium,  subrotund, 
adnate,  whitish,  becoming  yellow  or  ochraceous.  Stem  equal  or  slightly 
tapering  downward,  both  it  and  the  tubes  glandular-dotted,  white, 
sometimes  tinged  with  pink  toward  the  base.  Spores  ochraceous,  sub- 
fusiform,  8— 9x4^. 

PileilS  1-5-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-3  in.  long,  3~5  lines  thick. 

Woods,  especially  of  pine  or  hemlock.  New  York,  Peck;  New 
England,  Frost. 

This  species  is  easily  known  by  its  white  pileus,  but  its  color  is  lost 
in  drying.  Sometimes  the  fresh  plant  emits  a  peculiar  fetid  odor. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

415 


Polyporaceee 

Boletus.  B.  granula'tllS — granula,  a  granule.  PileuS  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  very  viscid  or  glutinous  and  rusty-brown  when  moist,  yellowish 
when  dry.  Flesh  pale-yellowish.  Tubes  short,  adnate,  yellowish, 
their  mouths  simple,  granulated.  Stem  dotted  with  glandules  above* 
pale-yellowish.  Spores  spindle-shaped,  yellowish-orange,  /.5-IOX2-3/X,. 

PileuS  1.5-4  m-  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Woods,  especially  of  pine  and  in  open  places  under  or  near  pine 
trees.  Very  common. 

The  plant  is  generally  gregarious  and  sometimes  grows  in  circles, 
whence  the  name  B.  circinans  Pers.  Occasionally  it  is  cespitose.  The  pi- 
leus  is  very  variable  in  color — pinkish-gray,  reddish-brown,  yellowish- 
gray,  tawny-ferruginous  or  brownish — and  is  sometimes  obscurely  spot- 
ted by  the  drying  gluten.  The  flesh  is  rather  thick  and  often  almost 
white,  except  near  the  tubes,  where  it  is  tinged  with  yellow.  The  tubes 
are  small,  at  first  almost  white  or  very  pale-yellow,  but  they  become 
dingy-ochraceous  with  age.  The  stem  is  generally  short,  stout  and 
firm,  whitish-pallid  or  yellowish,  and  often  dotted  to  the  base,  though 
the  glandules  are  more  numerous  and  distinct  on  the  upper  part.  Peck, 
Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  granulatus  is  of  frequent  and  general  occurrence.  I  have  found  it 
in  the  pine  woods  of  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina,  Pennsylvania  and 
West  Virginia,  and  in  West  Virginia  and  Pennsylvania  in  mixed  woods. 

It  is  a  late-growing  species,  appearing  in  September  and  continuing 
until  frost. 

All  authors,  with  one  exception  (Gillet),  give  the  species  as  edible. 
From  frequent  and  copious  testings,  the  writer  vouches  for  its  edibility 
and  excellence.  It  bears  favorable  comparison  with  any  of  the  late 
Boleti. 

B,  bre'vipes  Pk. — brevis,  short;  pes,  foot.  Pfleus  thick,  convex, 
covered  with  a  thick,  tough  gluten  when  young  or  moist,  dark  chestnut 
color,  sometimes  fading  to  dingy-tawny,  the  margin  inflexed.  Flesh 
white  or  tinged  with  yellow.  Tubes  short,  nearly  plane,  adnate  or 
slightly  depressed  around  the  stem,  small,  subrotund,  at  first  whitish 
becoming  dingy-ochraceous.  Stem  whitish,  not  dotted  or  rarely  with  a 
few  very  minute  inconspicuous  dots  at  the  apex,  very  short.  Spores  sub- 
fusiform,  7.5x3//.. 

PileuS  1.5-2.5  in.  broad.      Stem  .5-1  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick. 

416 


Polyporaceee 

Sandy  soil  in  pine  groves  and  woods.      New  England,  Frost;  New  Boletus. 
York,  Peck. 

The  species  is  closely  related  to  B.  granulatus,  from  which  it  differs 
especially  in  its  darker  colored  pileus,  more  copious  gluten,  shorter 
stem  and  the  almost  entire  absence  of  granules  from  the  tube  mouths 
and  stem.  In  the  rare  instances  in  which  these  are  present  they  are  ex- 
tremely minute  and  inconspicuous.  The  plant  occurs  very  late  in  the 
season  and  the  pileus  appears  as  if  enveloped  in  slime  and  resting  stem- 
less  on  the  ground.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Specimens  found  in  pine  woods  of  New  Jersey,  identified  by  Professor 
Peck.  Lambertville,  N.  J.,  C.  S.  Ridgway;  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  T. 
J.  Collins;  Pleasantville,  Isaac  F.  Shaner. 

B.  brevipes  is  a  disreputable,  dirty,  tramp-looking  fungus,  from  which 
the  collector  would  expect  no  good.  Nevertheless,  when  it  has  had  a 
good  scrubbing  it  becomes  respectable  and  is  sweet,  tender,  good  eat- 
ing. When  other  species  abound,  it  does  not  pay  for  the  cleansing. 

B.  COllilli'tllS  Fr. — collino,  to  besmear.  Pileus  convex,  even,  becom- 
ing pale  when  the  brown  gluten  separates.  Flesh  white.  Tubes  adnate, 
elongated,  naked,  the  mouths  two-parted,  pallid,  becoming  yellow. 
Stem  firm,  often  tapering  downward,  somewhat  reticulate  with  appressed 
squamules,  white,  becoming  brown. 

Woods  of  pine  or  fir.     North  Carolina,  Curtis/  New  England,  Frost. 

I  have  seen  no  specimens  of  this  apparently  rare  species.  It  is  said 
to  be  solitary  in  its  mode  of  growth  and  to  resemble  B.  luteus  in  size 
and  color,  but  to  be  distinct  from  it  by  its  ringless,  dotless  stem.  Dr*. 
Curtis  records  it  as  edible.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

I  found  three  specimens  at  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  October,  1897,  under 
scrub  pines.  Cap  2;^  in.  across,  convex,  gibbous;  stem  equal,  2%  in. 
long,  K  in.  in  diameter,  slightly  tapering  at  base.  The  two-parted 
mouths  to  the  tubes  were  very  distinct.  The  stems  were  tough,  but  the 
caps,  washed  and  fried,  were  good. 

B.  di'chrous  Ellis.  Pileus  convex,  viscose,  dull  red.  Flesh  soft, 
dull,  yellowish-white,  changing  to  greenish-blue  where  wounded,  finally 
yellow.  Tubes  subdepressed  around  the  stem,  large,  unequal,  straw- 
colored,  changing  color  like  the  flesh  where  wounded.  Stem  thickened 

27  417 


Polyporaceee 

Boletus,  below,  solid,  covered  with  a  red  scaly  coat,  except  at  the  yellow  apex, 
yellow  within.  Spores  elliptical,  slightly  bent  at  one  end,  2/A  long. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  3  in.  long,  6  lines  thick. 

Dry  soil  in  oak  and  pine  woods.      New  Jersey.     Ellis. 

I  have  seen  no  specimens  of  this  species.  From  the  description,  its 
affinities  appear  to  be  with  B.  bicolor,  but  it  is  placed  here  because  of 
its  viscose  pileus.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  ba'dius  Fr. — bay-brown.  Pileus  convex,  even,  soft,  viscose  or 
glutinous,  shining  when  dry,  tawny-chestnut.  Flesh  whitish,  tinged 
with  yellow,  bluish  next  the  tubes.  Tubes  large,  angular,  long,  adnate 
or  sinuate-depressed,  whitish-yellow,  becoming  tinged  with  green. 
Stem  subequal,  even,  solid,  paler,  brown-pruinate .  Spores  fusoid- 
oblong. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick. 

Woods,  especially  of  pine.  New  York,  Peck;  Minnesota,  Johnson; 
Wisconsin,  Bundy;  Nova  Scotia,  Somers. 

In  the  American  plant  the  spores  are  10-1 2x4-5^. 

Cordier  classes  it  among  the  edible  species.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
United  States. 

B.  mi'tis  Krombh. — mild.  Pileus  convex,  then  plane  or  depressed, 
firm,  viscid,  yellowish-flesh  color,  reddish-rust  color  when  dry.  Flesh 
pale,  grayish-yellow.  Tubes  short,  olivaceous  or  golden-yellow,  their 
mouths  compound,  angular,  unequal.  Stem  firm,  short,  even,  narrbwed 
toward  the  base,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  12—14x41*. 

Pileus  2-2*. 5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-2.5  in.  long. 

Mixed  woods.     New  England,  Frost. 

This  species  is  unknown  to  me  and  is  recorded  by  Mr.  Frost  only. 
Peck,  Bol.eti  of  the  United  States. 

B.  uni'color  Frost  MS.  Pileus  broadly  convex  or  nearly  plane,  vis- 
cid when  moist,  even,  sometimes  streaked  as  if  with  minute  innate  brown 
fibrils,  pale-yellow.  Flesh  pale-yellow.  Tubes  adnate  or  slightly  de- 
current,  rather  short,  compound,  lemon-yellow,  becoming  darker  with 
age.  Stem  even,  equal  or  narrowed  toward  the  base,  colored  like  the 
pileus.  Spores  reddish-yellow,  9-11x4^1. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad .      Stem  2  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

418 


Polyporaceas 

Pine  woods  and  open  sedgy  places.     New  England,  Frost.  Boletus. 

Specimens  not  seen.  The  species  seems  too  near  B.  bovinus,  of 
which  it  may  possibly  be  a  variety,  but  its  yellow  flesh  and  the  colors 
ascribed  to  the  tubes  and  spores  require  its  separation.  Rev.  C.  J. 
Curtis  sends  notes  of  a  species  found  by  him  in  North  Carolina,  which 
agree  with  this  in  its  characters  so  far  as  noted.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

B.  ignora'tus  Pk.  PileuS  convex,  viscid,  bright  lemon-color,  marked 
with  wrinkled  lines  of  orange  color,  which  are  distributed  over  the  pi- 
leus,  giving  it  a  streaked  appearance.  Flesh  white,  solid,  does  not 
change  color  when  cut  or  broken;  taste  slightly  acid.  Pores  lemon- 
color,  moderately  large,  free,  connected  with  the  stem  by  web-like  fila- 
ments. Stem  larger  at  the  apex,  somewhat  tapering  toward  the  base, 
yellow,  smooth,  solid.  Spores  4.5xn/>t. 

This  closely  approaches  Boletus  unicolor  Fr.,  from  which  it  scarcely 
differs  except  in  its  white  flesh  and  free  tubes.  Fungi  of  Maryland, 
Mary  E.  Banning.  Peck,  44th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

B.  bovi'nus — bos,  an  ox.  PileuS  nearly  plane,  glabrous,  viscid,  pale 
yellow.  Flesh  white.  Tubes  very  short,  subdecurrent,  their  mouths 
compound,  pale  yellow  or  grayish,  becoming  rust-colored.  Stem  equal, 
even,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  fusiform,  dingy  greenish-ocher, 
7.5-10x3-4,*. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-2  in.  long,  sometimes  cespitose. 

Pine  woods.  North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Pennsylvania, 
Schweinitz;  New  England,  Frost,  Palmer,  Bennett,  Sprague,  Farlow; 
California,  H ' .  and  M . 

The  shallow  tubes,  2-3  lines  long,  are  said  to  resemble  the  pores  of 
Merulius  lacrymans.  The  species  is  recorded  edible  by  Curtis,  Gillet 
and  Palmer.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia  mountains  under  hemlocks,  1882-1885,  and  near  Had- 
donfield,  N.  J.,  under  pines.  Mcllvaine,  1892.  Gregarious  and  in 
clusters.  The  pore  surface  was  in  some  specimens  broadly  wrinkled. 

Smell  and  taste  pleasant.     Cooked,  the  quality  is  of  the  best  in  Boleti. 

B.  rubinel'lus  Pk. — dim.  of  ruber,  red.  Pileus  broadly  conical  or 
convex,  viscid  when  moist,  subtomentose  or  slightly  pubescent  when 
dry,  red  fading  to  yellow  on  the  margin.  Flesh  whitish  or  yellowish, 

419 


Polyporaceee 

Boletus,  taste  mild.  Tubes  adnate  or  slightly  depressed  around  the  stem,  dingy- 
reddish,  becoming  subferruginous.  Stem  equal,  slender,  even,  colored 
like  the  tubes,  yeflow  witJiin,  sometimes  yellow  at  the  base.  Spores 
oblong-fusiform,  ferruginous-brown,  12.5— 1 5x4^. 

PileilS  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  1-3  lines  thick. 
Mixed  woods  or  under  or  near  coniferous  trees  in  open  places.     New 
York,  Peck.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  pipera'tus  Bull. — piper,  pepper.  PileilS  convex  or  nearly  plane, 
glabrous,  slightly  viscid  when  moist,  yellowish,  cinnamon  or  siibferm- 
ginous.  Flesh  white  or  yellowish,  taste  acrid,  peppery .  Tubes  rather 
long  and  large,  angular,  often  unequal,  plane  or  convex,  adnate  or  sub- 
decurrent,  reddish-rust  color.  Stem  slender,  subequal,  tawny-yellow, 
bright  yellow  at  the  base.  Spores  subfusiform,  ferruginous-brown, 
9-1 IX4/M. 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng,  2~4  lmes  thick. 

Woods  and  open  places.      Common  and  variable. 

This  species  may  easily  be  recognized  by  its  peppery  flavor.  The 
pileus  sometimes  appears  as  if  slightly  tomentose,  and  both  this  and  the 
preceding  species  recede  from  the  character  of  the  tribe  by  the  slight 
viscidity  of  the  pileus.  This  is  sometimes  cracked  into  areas  and  some- 
times the  margin  is  very  obtuse  by  the  elongation  of  the  tubes.  Peck, 
Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  1892.     Mcllvaine. 

This  fungus  is  reckoned  poisonous  by  Stevenson.  Massee  gives  its 
taste  as  very  hot.  The  taste  of  the  American  plant  is  peppery  but  not 
offensively  so.  This  pepperiness  it  loses  in  cooking.  It  has  been  eaten 
by  the  writer  and  his  friends  with  enjoyment  and  without  any  discom- 
fort. 

B.  subsanguin'eus  Pk. — sub  and  sangttineus,  bloody.  (Plate  CXVI, 
fig.  4,  p.  420.)  PileilS  convex  or  slightly  depressed  in  the  center,  gla- 
brous, viscid,  bright-red  or  scarlet.  Flesh  thick,  firm  but  flexible,  white, 
slowly  changing  to  a  pale  brownish-lilac  on  exposure  to  the  air,  taste 
slightly  bitter.  Tubes  very  short,  2—4  mm.  long,  adnate,  but  often  sep- 
arating from  the  stem  with  the  expansion  of  the  pileus,  reddish,  the 
mouths  minute,  stuffed  at  first,  pinkish,  then  brownish-yellow,  changing 
to  a  light-brown  where  wounded.  Stem  short,  thick,  uneven,  often 

420 


PLATE  CXVI. 


t!  ''>:X;,v^ 

S>&^^:  • 


Grouped  by  F.  I>.  Briscoe  — Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


New  Species. 


FIG. 

1.  BOLETUS  ECCENTRICUS, 

2.  BOLETUS  BADICEPS, 

3.  BoLtTus  FUIATS. 


PAGE.  FIG. 

470  4.    BOLETUS  SUBSANGUINEUS, 

436  5.    BOLETUS  CHASSIPES, 
465 


PAGE. 
420 
452 


Polyporacese 

tapering  downward,  streaked  with  red,  pale-yellow  at  the  top,  white  at  Boletus, 
the  base,  marked  at  the  top  by  the  decurrent  walls  of  the  tubes. 

PileuS  2.5-10  cm.  broad.      Stem  2.5-5  cm-  l°ng>  2-4  cm.  thick. 

Solitary,  gregarious  or  cespitose.  Under  beech  trees.  West  Phila- 
delphia, Pa.  August.  C.  Mcllvaine. 

This  is  a  very  showy  species,  easily  recognized  by  its  bright-red  vis- 
cid pileus  and  its  short,  thick  and  uneven  or  somewhat  lacunose  stem. 
It  is  closely  related  to  the  European  B.  sanguineus  With.,  from  which 
it  is  separated  by  its  minute  tubes,  its  uneven  stem  and  the  brownish 
hues  assumed  where  wounded. 

The  spore  characters  of  this  and  the  four  succeeding  species  are  un- 
known, but  the  other  characters  are  quite  distinctive  and  apparently 
sufficient  for  the  recognition  of  the  species.  The  descriptions  have  been 
derived  from  colored  figures  and  other  data  furnished  by  Mr.  Mcllvaine, 
who  says  all  are  edible.  Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  No.  27. 

When  slowly  stewed  for  thirty  minutes,  there  is  no  better  Boletus. 

PULVERULENTI. 

Pileus  clothed  with  a  yellow  dust  or  a  yellow  powdery  down.  Stem 
more  or  less  yellow  powdered,  neither  bulbous  nor  distinctly  reticulated. 

The  species  which  constitute  this  tribe  are  easily  distinguished  from 
all  others  by  the  sulphur-colored  pulverulence  which  coats  the  pileus 
and  stem  like  a  universal  veil.  They  appear  thus  far  to  be  peculiar  to 
this  country.  Though  strongly  resembling  each  other  in  the  tribal 
character  they  are  very  diverse  in  other  respects.  One  species,  by  its 
viscidity,  connects  with  the  preceding  tribe;  another  by  its  differently 
colored  tube  mouths  is  related  to  the  Luridi ;  and  the  third  is  peculiar 
in  its  ligneous  habitat. 

Plant  growing  on  the  ground I 

Plant  growing  on  wood B.  hemichrysus 

i .  Tubes  adnate,  of  one  color B.  Ravenelii 

i .  Tubes  free,  with  red  mouths B.  auriflammeus 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S.,  p.  103. 

B.  hemicliry'sus  B.  and  C. — half-golden.  Pileus  convex,  at  length 
plane  or  irregularly  depressed,  floccose-squamulose,  covered  with  a  yel- 
low powder,  sometimes  cracked,  bright  golden-yellow.  Flesh  thick, 

421 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus,  yellow.  Tubes  adnate  or  decurrent,  yellow,  becoming  reddish-brown, 
the  mouths  large,  angular.  Stem  short,  irregular,  narrowed  below, 
sprinkled  with  a  yellow  dust,  yellowish  tinged  with  red ;  mycelium  yel- 
low. Spores  oblong,  minute,  dingy-ochraceous. 

Var.  muta  bills.  Flesh  slightly  changing  to  blue  where  wounded. 
Stem  reddish,  yellow  within,  sometimes  eccentric.  Spores  oblong- 
elliptical,  7.5—  9X3-4//.. 

Pileus  1.5-2.5  in.  broad.      Stem  about  I  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Roots  of  pine,  Pinus  palustris.  The  variety  on  stumps  of  Pinus 
strobus. 

South  Carolina,  Ravenel;  North  Carolina,  Curtis;  New  York,  Peck. 

The  species  is  remarkable  for  its  habitat,  which  is  lignicolous.  The 
New  York  variety  grew  on  a  stump  of  white  pine.  By  its  eccentric 
stem  it  connects  this  genus  with  Boletinus,  through  Boletinus  porosus. 
According  to  the  authors  of  this  species  it  resembles  Boletus  variegatus. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  Kavenel'ii  B.  and  C. — after  Ravenel.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  slightly  viscid  when  young  or  moist,  covered  with  a  sulphur-yel- 
low powdery  down,  becoming  naked  and  dull-red  on  the  disk.  Flesh 
whitish.  Tubes  at  first  plane,  adnate,  pale-yellow,  becoming  yellowish- 
brown  or  umber,  dingy-greenish  where  bruised,  the  mouths  large  or 
medium  size,  subrotund.  Stem  nearly  equal,  clothed  and  colored  like 
the  young  pileus,  yellow  within,  with  a  slight  evanescent  webby  or 
tomentose  ring.  Spores  ochraceous-brown,  io-i2x5-6/M. 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1.5-4  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  copses.  South  Carolina,  Ravenel;  North  Carolina,  Curtis; 
New  York,  Peck;  New  England,  Frost. 

This  is  a  very  distinct  and  very  beautiful  species.  Mr.  Ravenel  re- 
marks in  his  notes  that  "this  plant  is  not  infested  by  larvae  and  preserves 
more  constant  characters  than  any  other  Boletus  with  which  I  am  ac- 
quainted." The  webby  powdered  filaments  constitute  a  universal  veil 
which  at  first  covers  the  whole  plant  and  conceals  the  young  tubes.  As 
the  pileus  expands  this  generally  disappears  from  the  disk,  and,  sep- 
arating between  the  margin  and  the  stem,  a  part  adheres  to  each.  The 
flesh  is  sometimes  stained  with  yellow.  The  tubes  in  some  instances  be- 
come convex  and  slightly  depressed  around  the  stem.  They  are  almost 
white  when  young,  and  often  exhibit  brownish  hues  where  wounded. 

422 


Polyporaceae 

The  plant  is  sometimes  cespitose.      I  have  observed  a  greenish  tint  to  Boletus, 
the  freshly  shed  spores,  but  it  soon  disappears.      Boletus  subchromeus 
Frost  Ms.  is  this  species.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  auriflam'meus  B.  and  C. — flaming  yellow.  Pileus  convex,  dry, 
powdered,  bright  golden-yellow.  Flesh  white,  unchangeable.  Tubes 
plane  or  convex,  free,  yellow,  their  broad  angular  mouths  scarlet.  Stem 
slightly  tapering  upward,  powdered,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores 
10-12.5x5/4. 

Pileus  8-12  lines  broad.      Stem  1-1.5  in.  long. 

Woods.     North  Carolina,  Curtis;  New  York,  Peck. 

This  is  evidently  a  rare  species  and  as  beautiful  as  it  is  rare.  The 
whole  plant  is  bright-yellow  except  the  tube  mouths,  and  is  sprinkled 
with  yellow  dust  or  minute  yellow  branny  particles.  In  the  New  York 
specimen  the  scarlet  color  is  wanting  in  the  marginal  tube  mouths  and 
the  stem  is  marked  with  fine  subreticulating  elevated  lines.  In  other 
respects  it  agrees  well  with  the  diagnosis  of  the  species.  Peck,  Boleti 
of  the  U.  S. 

SUBPRUINOSI — sub,  pruina,  hoar  frost. 

Pileus  glabrous,  but  more  often  pruinose.  Tubes  adnate,  yellowish. 
Stem  equal,  even,  neither  bulbous  nor  reticulated. 

The  species  of  this  tribe  have  the  pileus  neither  viscid  nor  distinctly 
and  permanently  tomentose.  Typically  it  is  glabrous  or  merely  pruinose, 
but  Fries  has  admitted  into  the  group  one  species  with  a  pulverulent, 
and  one  with  a  silky  pileus.  The  species  are  not  sharply  distinguished 
from  those  of  the  following  tribes,  and  possibly  some  have  been  admitted 
here  which  might  as  well  have  been  placed  there.  Some  of  the  species 
are  variable  in  color  and  their  characters  are  not  sufficiently  well  known. 

Tubes  bright-yellow,  golden  or  subochraceous i 

i .    Tubes  pale  or  whitish-yellow 6 

i .    Tubes  changing  to  blue  where  wounded 2 

i .    Tubes  not  changing  to  blue 3 

2.    Stem  pallid,  with  a  circumscribing  red  line  at  the  top..B.  glabellus 
2.    Stem  yellow,  sometimes  with  red  stains.  .  .  .B.  miniato-olivaceus 

2.    Stem  red,  yellow  at  the  top B.  bicolor 

3.    Stem  viscid  or  glutinous  when  moist B.  auriporus 

423 


Polyporaceee 

Boletus.  3 .    Stem  not  viscid 4 

4.    Plant  growing  on  Scleroderma B.  parasiticus 

4.    Plant  terrestrial 5 

5.    Tubes  greenish-yellow B.  alutaceus 

5 .    Tubes  golden-yellow B.  tenuiculus 

6.    Pileus  reticulated  with  subcutaneous  brown  lines.  .B.  dictyocephalus 

6.    Pileus  not  reticulated 7 

7.    Tubes  changing  to  blue  where  wounded B.  pallidus 

7.    Tubes  not  changing  to  blue 8 

8.    Stem  uniformly  colored B.  subglabripes 

8.    Stem  yellowish,  streaked  with  brown B.  innixus 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  minia'tO-oliva'ceilS  Frost — olive-red.  Pileus  at  first  convex  and 
firm,  then  nearly  plane,  soft  and  spongy,  glabrous,  vermilion,  becom- 
ing olivaceous.  Flesh  pale-yellow,  changing  to  blue  where  wounded. 
Tubes  bright  lemon-yellow,  adnate  or  subdecurrent.  Stem  glabrous, 
enlarged  at  the  top,  pale-yellow,  brighter  within,  sometimes  lurid  at  the 
base.  Spores  12.5x6^. 

Var.  sensi'bilis  (Boletus  sensibilis  Rep.  32,  p.  33). 

Pileus  at  first  pruinose-tomentose,  red,  becoming  glabrous  and  ochra- 
ceous-red  with  age.  Tubes  bright-yellow  tinged  with  green,  becoming 
sordid-yellow.  Stem  lemon-yellow  with  red  or  rhubarb  stains  at  the 
base,  contracted  at  the  top  when  young,  subcespitose.  Spores  10-12.5 
x4-5^. 

Pileus  2-6  in.  broad.     Stem  3-4  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  their  borders.      New  England,  Frost ;  New  York,  Peck. 

Though  the  sensitive  Boletus  differs  considerably  in  some  respects 
from  the  olive-red  Boletus,  it  is  probably  only  a  variety,  and  as  such  I 
have  subjoined  it  here.  In  it  every  part  of  the  plant  quickly  changes 
to  blue  where  wounded,  and  even  the  pressure  of  the  fingers  in  handling 
the  fresh  specimens  is  sufficient  to  induce  this  change  of  color.  I  have 
not  found  the  typical  plant  in  New  York,  but  specimens  received  from 
Mr.  Frost  are  not,  in  the  dry  state,  distinguishable  from  the  variety. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller  \  West  Virginia.  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  Chelten- 
ham, Pa.,  Mcllvaine. 

Years  ago  I  marked  it  edible  and  excellent  when  young.  My  friends 

424 


PLATE  CXVII. 


tsa 
c  o 
r  r1 
K  a 
H  H 


-  M 
f-1  M 

II 

Si 

Z 
O 


• 

go 

H 


Polyporaceae 

have  eaten  it,  and  continue  to  do  so.  Yet  Professor  Peck  (48th  Rep.,  Boletus, 
p.  202)  reports  a  case  brought  to  his  notice  of  an  entire  family  being 
sickened  by  eating  B.  sensibilis.  All  recovered.  It  may,  therefore,  be 
one  of  those  species  which,  while  disagreeing  with  some  persons,  can 
be  eaten  by  the  majority.  Clitocybe  illudens,  Lepiota  Morgani  and 
others  of  the  Agaricaceae  are  such  species. 

B.  bi'color  Pk. — two-color.  (Plate  CXVII,  figs.  I,  2,  p.  424.)  Pi- 
leus  convex,  glabrous  or  merely  pruinose-tomentose,  dark-red,  firm,  be- 
coming soft,  paler  and  sometimes  spotted  or  stained  with  yellow  when 
old.  Flesh  yellow,  not  at  all  or  but  slightly  and  slowly  changing  to 
blue  where  wounded.  Tubes  nearly  plane,  adnate,  bright-yellow,  be- 
coming ochraceous,  slowly  changing  to  blue  where  wounded,  their 
mouths  small,  angular  or  subrotund.  Stem  subequal,  firm,  solid,  red, 
generally  yellow  at  the  top,.  Spores  pale,-  ochraceous-brown,  10— 
12.5x4-5/4. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1-3  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  open  places.     New  York,  Peck;  Wisconsin,  Bundy. 

The  color  of  this  plant  is  somewhat  variable.  In  the  typical  form  the 
pileus  and  stem  are  dark  red,  approaching  Indian  red,  but  when  old  the 
color  of  the  pileus  fades  and  is  often  intermingled  with  yellow.  The 
surface  sometimes  cracks  and  becomes  cracked  in  areas.  From  the 
European  B.  Barlae  this  species  is  separated  by  its  solid  stem;  from  B. 
versicolor  by  its  small  tube  mouths  and  its  red  stem.  Peck,  Boleti  of 
the  U.  S. 

Plentiful  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  July,  August,  September,  1898,  in 
mixed  woods.  Very  variable  in  shape  and  color.  Identified  by  Pro- 
fessor Peck  from  painting  and  description. 

Fine  eating,  one  of  the  very  best. 

B.  glabel'lllS  Pk. — smooth.  PileilS  fleshy,  thick,  broadly  convex  or 
nearly  plane,  soft,  dry,  subglabrous,  smoky-buff.  Flesh  white,  both  it 
and  the  tubes  changing  to  blue  where  wounded.  Tubes  nearly  plane, 
adnate,  ochraceous,  tinged  with  green,  their  mouths  small,  subrotund. 
Stem  subequal,  glabrous,  even,  reddish  toward  the  base,  pallid  above, 
with  a  narrow  reddish  circumscribing  zone  or  line  at  the  top.  Spores 
oblong,  brownish-ochraceous,  tinged  with  green  when  fresh,  10-12. 5x4^. 

PileilS  3-5  in.  broad.      Stem  1-3  in.  long,  5-10  lines  thick. 

425 


Polyporacese 

Boletus.       Grassy  ground  under  oaks.      New  York,  Peck. 

The  species  is  well  marked  by  the  reddish  band  or  line  on  the  stem 
just  below  the  tubes,  but  this  disappears  in  drying.  Peck,  Boleti  of 
the  U.  S. 

B.  aluta'ceilS  Morgan — yellowish.  PileuS  cushion-shaped,  glabrous, 
ahitaceous  with  a  tinge  of  red.  Flesh  white,  inclining  to  reddish.  Tubes 
semifree,  medium  in  size,  unequal,  angular,  greenish-yellow.  Stem 
nearly  equal,  striate,  reticulate  at  the  apex,  colored  like  the  pileus. 
Spores  fusiform,  brownish-olive,  12.5x5^. 

Pileus  3  in.  broad. 

Rocky  woods  of  oak  and  chestnut.      Kentucky,  Morgan. 

The  general  aspect  of  the  figure  of  this  species  recalls  some  of  the 
forms  of  Boletus  subtomentosus.  The  tubes  are  nearly  equal  in  length 
to  the  thickness  of  the  flesh  of  the  pileus.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Quite  frequent  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  in  mixed  woods,  principally  oak 
and  chestnut. 

Stem  should  be  removed,  and  tubes  when  old.  It  cooks  well  and  is 
especially  good. 

B.  tenui'culus  Frost — thin.  Pileus  nearly  plane,  thin,  lurid-red  on 
a  yellow  ground.  Flesh  unchangeable.  Tubes  short,  adnate,  small, 
golden-yellow.  Stem  slender,  equal,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores 
iox6ju.. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  4-6  in.  long. 

Woods.     New  England.     Frost. 

The  thin  pileus  and  long  slender  stem  readily  distinguish  this  species. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  auri'porus  Pk. — golden-pore.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane, 
glabrous  or  merely  pruinose-tomentose,  grayish-brown,  yellowish-brown, 
or  reddish-brown.  Flesh  white,  unchangeable.  Tubes  plane  or  slightly 
depressed  around  the  stem,  adnate  or  subdecurrent,  bright  golden-yel- 
low, retaining  their  color  when  dried.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  thickened 
at  the  base,  viscid  or  glutinous  when  moist,  especially  toward  the  base, 
colored  like  or  a  little  paler  than  the  pileus.  Spores  7-5-IOX4~5/*- 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1-3  in.  long,  2-4  lines  thick. 

426 


Polyporacese 

Thin  woods  and  shaded  banks.     New  York,  Peck;  New  England,   Boletus. 
Frost. 

This  species  is  remarkable  for  the  rich  yellow  color  of  the  tubes, 
which  is  retained  unchanged  in  the  dried  specimens,  and  for  the  viscid 
stem.  This  character,  however,  is  not  noticeable  in  dry  weather  and 
was  overlooked  in  the  original  specimens. 

Boletus  glutinipes  Frost  Ms.  is  not  distinct.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Hopkins'  Woods,  Haddonfield,  N.  J.  Grassy  oak  woods.  1891— 
1894.  Mcllvaine. 

The  caps  are  delicious. 

B.  innix'us  Frost.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  glabrous,  yellow- 
ish-brown, slightly  cracked  in  areas  when  old,  yellow  in  the  interstices. 
Flesh  white.  Tubes  adnate,  lemon-yellow,  unchangeable.  Stem  slen- 
der, short,  much  thickened  at  the  base  in  large  specimens,  yellowish, 
streaked  with  brown,  brownish  within.  Spores  iOx5/x,. 

Grassy  woods.      New  England.      Frost. 

The  whole  plant  often  reclines  as  if  for  support,  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
U.  S. 

B.  parasi'ticus  Bull. — a  parasite.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  dry, 
silky,  becoming  glabrous,  soon  tessellately  cracked,  grayish  or  dingy- 
yellow.  Tubes  decurrent,  medium  size,  golden  yellow.  Stem  equal, 
rigid,  incurved,  yellow  without  and  within.  Spores  oblong-fusiform, 
pale-brown,  12.5-15x4^. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.     Stem  1-2  in.  long,  2-4  lines  thick. 

Parasitic  on  species  of  Scleroderma.  New  York,  Gerard;  New  Eng- 
land, Sprague,  Bennett. 

This  species  is  very  rare  in  this  country.  It  is  remarkable  for  its 
peculiar  habitat.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

New  York,   Lydia  M .  Patchen;  Westfield,  on  Scleroderma  vulgare. 

I  found  many  specimens  of  this  rare  species  during  August,  1897, 
growing  on  Scleroderma  vulgare. 

Professor  Peck,  to  whom  I  sent  specimens,  identified  them  as  B.  par- 
asiticus.  The  tubes  were  large,  unequal,  dissepiments  thin,  decurrent. 
The  Sclerodermas  frequently  appear  to  be  parasitic  upon  the  Boletus. 
I  have  seen  the  host'  plant  thrown  entirely  free  from  the  ground  by  the 
Boletus. 

427 


Polyporaceae 
Boletus.       B.  parasiticus  is  edible,  but  it  is  not  of  agreeable  flavor. 

B.  dictyocepll'alus  Pk. — reticulate.  Pileus  convex,  glabrous,  reticu- 
late with  brown  lines  beneatJi  the  thin  separable  cuticle ,  brownish-orange, 
darker  in  the  center  and  there  tinged  with  pink.  Flesh  white,  un- 
changeable. Tubes  nearly  plane,  slightly  depressed  around  the  stem, 
grayish-yellow,  becoming  brown  where  bruised.  Stem  equal  or  slightly 
tapering  at  the  top,  solid,  rimose,  dotted  with  scales,  lemon-yellow, 
darker  toward  the  base.  Spores  15— 2Ox6/u.. 

Pileus  2.5  in.  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  5-6  lines  thick. 

Mixed  woods.      North  Carolina.      C.  J.  Curtis. 

The  description  here  given  has  been  derived  from  a  single  dried  speci- 
men and  from  the  notes  kindly  sent  by  Mr.  Curtis.  The  species  is 
apparently  well  marked  and  very  distinct  by  the  peculiar  reticulations  of 
the  pileus.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  subgla'bripes  Pk. — rather  smooth.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  glabrous,  reddish  inclining  to  chestnut  color.  Flesh  white,  un- 
changeable. Tubes  adnate,  nearly  plane  in  the  mass,  pale  yellow,  be- 
coming convex  and  darker  or  greenish-yellow  with  age,  the  mouths 
small,  subrotund.  Stem  equal,  solid,  scurfy,  pale  yellow.  Spores 
oblong-fusiform,  12.5-15x4-5^. 

The  smoothish-stemmed  Boletus  is  well  marked  by  its  cylindric  mi- 
nutely scurfy  stem  which  is  colored  like  the  tubes.  Its  cap  is  smooth 
and  nearly  always  some  shade  of  red  or  L  'Specimens  occur  occa- 
sionally in  which  it  approaches  grayish-bro\,,i  or  ,y oc,  1-brown .  The 
flesh  is  white  and  unchangeable  when  cut  or  bro!  \, 

The  tubes  at  first  have  a  nearly  plane  surface,  but  this  becomes  some- 
what convex  with  age,  and  slightly  depressed  around  the  stem.  The 
tube  mouths  are  small  and  nearly  round.  The  color  of  the  tubes  is  at 
first  a  beautiful  pale  yellow,  but  it  becomes  darker  or  slightly  greenish- 
yellow  with  age. 

The  stem  is  colored  very  nearly  like  the  tubes,  but  sometimes  it  has 
a  slight  reddish  tint  toward  the  base.  Its  peculiar  feature  consists  of 
the  minute,  branny  particles  upon  it.  They  are  so  small  and  pale  that 
they  are  easily  overlooked. 

There  is  a  variety  in  which  the  cap  is  corrugated  or  irregularly  pitted 
and  wrinkled.  Its  name  is  Boletus  subglabripes  corrugis  Pk. 

428 


Polyporaceae 
• 

The  cap  is  1^-4  in.  broad,  the  stem  is  2-3  in.  long  and  4-8  lines  Boletus, 
thick.      The  plants  are  found  in  woods  in  July  and  August.     Peck,  5ist 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

B.  pal'lidus  Frost— pale.  (Plate  CXVII,  fig.  4,  p.  424.)  Pileus 
convex,  becoming  plane  or  centrally  depressed,  soft,  glabrous,  pallid  or 
brownish-white,  sometimes  tinged  with  red.  Flesh  white.  Tubes 
plane  or  slightly  depressed  around  the  stem,  nearly  adnate,  very  pale  or 
whitish-yellow,  becoming  darker  with  age,  changing  to  blue  where 
wounded,  the  mouths  small.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  thickened  toward 
the  base,  rather  long,  glabrous,  often  flexuous,  whitish,  sometimes 
streaked  with  brown,  often  tinged  with  red  within.  Spores  pale  ochra- 
ceous-brown,  io-i2x5-6/x. 

PileilS  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  3~5  lines  long,  4-8  lines  thick. 

Woods.     New  England,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck. 

The  species  is  readily  recognized  by  its  dull  pale  color,  rather  long 
stem,  and  tubes  changing  to  blue  where  wounded.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
U.  S. 

Common  in  West  Virginia  mountains,  Angora,  West  Philadelphia, 
Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Solitary,  on  ground  in  mixed  woods. 

The  caps  are  tender  and  delicately  flavored. 

B.  rubropunc'tus  Pk.— red-dotted.  (Plate  CXVII,  fig.  3,  p.  424.) 
Pileus  convex,  glabrous,  re  1  dish-brown.  Flesh  yellowish,  unchange- 
able. Tubes  nearl"  i  '  ,  depressed  about  the  stem,  their  mouths 
small,  round,  LrigUt  golden-yellow,  not  changing  color  where  bruised. 
Stem  firm,  solid,  tapering  upward,  yellow,  punctate  with  reddish  dots 
or  squamules.  Spores  olive-green,  12.5x4-5^. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Woods.    Port  Jefferson.     July.     Cold  Spring  Harbor,  H.  C.  Beardslee. 

This  is  a  pretty  Boletus,  well  marked  by  the  red  dots  of  the  stem. 
It  is  apparently  a  very  rare  species.  B.  radicans  is  said  to  have  the 
stem  sprinkled  with  red  particles,  but  that  is  a  larger  plant  with  the 
margin  of  the  pileus  persistently  involute  or  incurved  and  with  a  radi- 
cating stem,  characters  which  are  not  shown  by  our  fungus.  Peck,  5oth 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

I  found  my  specimens  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  August-September,  1898. 

429 


Polyporacese 

Boletus.       Identified  for  the  writer  by  Professor  Peck  from  painting  and  descrip- 
tion. 

Taste  and  smell  slight.  Cooks  well  and  is  pleasant  to  the  taste.  The 
tubes  should  be  removed. 

-    SUBTOMENTO'SI — sub,  tomentosus,  downy. 

PileilS  when  young  villose  or  subtomentose,  rarely  becoming  glabrous 
with  age,  destitute  of  a  viscid  pellicle.  Tubes  of  one  color,  adnate. 
Stem  at  first  extended,  neither  bulbous  nor  reticulated  with  veins, 
wrinkled  or  striated  in  some  species.  Flesh  in  some  changing  color 
where  wounded. 

The  tubes  are  generally  yellow  or  greenish-yellow.  In  some  species 
they  are  occasionally  somewhat  depressed  around  the  stem,  but  they  do 
not  form  a  rounded  free  stratum,  nor,  with  the  exception  of  B.  rubeus, 
are  they  stuffed  when  young  as  in  most  of  the  Edules.  The  species  are 
scarcely  separable  from  those  of  the  preceding  tribe  except  by  the  more 
evidently  tomentose  young  pileus. 

Tubes  brown,  becoming  cinnamon B.  variegatus 

Tubes  not  having  these  colors I 

I .    Flesh  or  tubes  changing  to  blue  where  wounded 2 

I.    Flesh  or  tubes  not  changing  to  blue 5 

2 .    Stem  glabrous 3 

2.    Stem  not  glabrous 4 

3.    Flesh  yellow  under  the  cuticle B.  rubeus 

3.    Flesh  red  under  the  cuticle B.  chrysenteron 

4.    Stem  velvety  at  the  base *.  B.  striaepes 

4.    Stem  with  a  reddish  bloom  or  scurf B.  radicans 

4.    Stem  with  brown  dot-like  scales B.  mutabilis 

5.    Tubes  whitish,  becoming  yellow B.  Roxanae 

5 .    Tubes  yellow 6 

6.    Tube  mouths  large  and  angular B.  subtomentosus 

6.    Tube  mouths  minute B.  spadiceus 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  variega'tus  Swartz.  Pileus  at  first  convex,  then  plane,  obtuse, 
moist,  sprinkled  with  superficial  bundled  hairy  squamules,  dark-yellow, 
the  acute  margin  at  first  flocculose.  Flesh  yellow,  here  and  there  be- 

430 


Polyporaceae 

coming  blue.     Tubes  adnate,  unequal,  minute,  brown  then  cinnamon.  Boletus. 
Stem  firm,  equal,  even,  dark-yellow,  sometimes  reddish.     Spores  ob- 
long-ellipsoid, hyaline  or  very  pale-yellowish,  7.5-iox3-4/x.. 

Pileus  2-5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  6  lines  thick. 

Woods,  especially  of  pine.  North  Carolina,  Curtis,  Scliweinitz;  Cali- 
fornia, Harkness,  Moore;  Rhode  Island,  Bennett.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  1882-1885.  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  Mcllvaine; 
Doylestown,  Pa.,  PascJiall.  Quite  common  on  flat  benches  where  hem- 
locks and  spruces  have  grown. 

When  the  caps  are  cooked  they  are  sweet,  nutty,  excellent. 

B.  Roxa'nse  Frost.  Pileus  broadly  convex,  at  first  subtomentose, 
then  covered  with  red  hairs  in  bundles,  yellowish-brown.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish-white. Tubes  at  first  whitish,  then  light-yellow,  arcuate-adnate 
or  slightly  depressed  around  the  stem,  the  mouths  small.  Stem  en- 
larged toward  the  base,  striate  at  the  apex,  yellowish  or  pale-cinnamon. 
Spores  IOX4/A. 

Var.  auricolor.  Pileus  and  subequal  stem  bright-yellow,  the  to- 
mentum  of  the  pileus  yellow. 

Pileus  1.5-3  m-  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick. 

Borders  of  woods.      New  England,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck. 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  strise'pes  Seer. — striate  stem.  Pileus  convex  or  plane,  soft,  silky, 
olivaceous,  the  cuticle  rust-color  within.  Flesh  white,  yellow  next  the 
tubes,  sparingly  changing  to  blue.  Tubes  adnate,  greenish,  their 
mouths  minute,  angular,  yellow.  Stem  firm,  curved,  marked  with 
brownish-black  striations,  yellow,  velvety  and  brownish-rufescent  at  the 
base.  Spores  lo-i 3x4/4. 

Pine  and  oak  woods.      Minnesota,  Johnson. 

I  have  seen  no  specimens  of  this  species,  which  is  recorded  from  but 
one  locality  in  our  country.  The  character — flesh  sparingly  changing 
to  blue — is  given  on  the  authority  of  Rev.  M.J.Berkeley.  Peck,  Boleti 
of  the  U.  S. 

B.  chrysen'teron  Fr. — golden  within.  Pileus  convex  or  plane,  soft, 
floccose-squamulose,  often  cracked  in  areas,  brown  or  brick-red.  Flesh 
yellow,  red  beneath  the  ctiticle,  often  slightly  changing  to  blue  where 

431 


Polyporaceee 

Boletus,  wounded.  Tubes  subadnate;  greenish-yellow,"  changing  to  blue  where 
wounded;  their  mouths  rather  large,  angular,  unequal.  Stem  subequal, 
rigid,  fibrous-striate,  red  or  pale-yellow.  Spores  fusiform,  pale-brown, 
11-12.5x4-5^. 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1-3  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  mossy  banks. 

The  species  is  common  and  very  variable.  The  color  of  the  pileus 
may  be  yellowish-brown,  reddish-brown,  brick-red,  tawny  or  olivaceous. 
The  subcutaneous  reddish  tint  and  the  reddish  chinks  of  the  cracked 
pileus  are  distinguishing  features.  Wounds  of  the  tubes  sometimes 
become  blue  then  greenish.  Authors  disagree  concerning  the  edible 
qualities  of  this  Boletus.  Stevenson  gives  it  as  edible,  but  Cordier  and 
Gillet  say  that  it  is  regarded  with  suspicion.  In  one  strongly  marked 
form  the  tubes  are  decidedly  depressed  around  the  stem,  in  another  the 
flesh  is  whitish  tinged  with  red.  It  may  be  doubted  whether  these  are 
varieties  or  distinct  species.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

I  have  found,  and  eaten  plentifully  of  this  species  in  West  Virginia, 
North  Carolina,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  from  July  until  October. 
I  have  no  hesitancy  in  recommending  it  in  all  of  its  varieties.  Excepting 
from  very  young  specimens  the  tubes  and  stems  should  be  removed. 
The  flesh  is  sweet,  delicate  and  toothsome. 

B.  fumo'sipes  Pk.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  minutely  tomen- 
tose,  sometimes  minutely  rivulose,  dark  olive-brown.  Flesh  whitish. 
Tubes  at  first  nearly  plane,  becoming  convex  with  age,  their  mouths 
whitish  when  young,  becoming  yellowish-brown,  changing  to  bluish- 
black  where  bruised.  Stem  equal,  solid,  smoky-brown,  minutely  scurfy 
under  a  lens.  Spores  purplish-brown,  12.5-15x5-6^. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  3-4  lines  thick. 

Woods.      Port  Jefferson.     July. 

This  species  resembles  small  dark-colored  forms  of  B.  chrysenteron, 
and  this  resemblance  is  still  more  noticeable  in  those  specimens  in  which 
the  pileus  cracks  in  areas,  for  in  these  the  chinks  become  red  as  in  that 
species.  The  different  color  of  the  stem  and  tubes  will  at  once  separate 
these  species.  Peck,  5oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

B.  ru'beus  Frost — red.  Pileus  broadly  convex,  very  finely  appressed 
subtomentose,  bright  brick-red  when  young,  becoming  mottled  with  red 

432 


and  yellow,  yellow  under  the  cuticle,  the  thin  margin  at  first  inflexed,  Boletus, 
then  horizontal,  curved  upward  when  old.  Flesh  pale-yellow,  chang- 
ing to  blue  where  wounded.  Tubes  adnate  or  slightly  depressed  around 
the  stem,  lemon-yellow  and  stiiffed  when  young,  becoming  yellow  and 
sometimes  red  at  the  mouths.  Stem  small,  often  flexuous,  colored  like 
the  pileus,  reddish  within,  white-tomentose  at  the  base.  Spores  9-12.5 
X4-5/*. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1-3  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick. 

Deep  woods.      Rare.     New  England,  Frost. 

This  is  apparently  too  closely  related  to  B.  chrysenteron,  and  it  also 
resembles  B.  bicolor.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  frater'nus  Pk.  Pileus  convex,  becoming  plane  or  depressed, 
slightly  tomentose,  deep  red  when  young,  becoming  dull  red  with  age. 
Flesh  yellow,  slowly  changing  to  greenish-blue  where  wounded.  Tubes 
rather  long,  becoming  ventricose,  slightly  depressed  about  the  stem, 
their  walls  sometimes  slightly  decurrent,  the  mouths  large,  angular  or 
irregular,  sometimes  compound,  bright  yellow,  quickly  changing  to  blue 
where  wounded.  Stem  short,  cespitose,  often  irregular,  solid,  sub- 
tomentose,  slightly  velvety  at  the  base,  pale  reddish-yellow,  paler  above 
and  below,  yellow  within,  quickly  changing  to  dark  green  where 
wounded.  Spores  1 2. 5x6/1*. 

Pileus  i-i-5  in.  broad.      Stem  I-I-5  in.  l°ng,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Shaded  streets.     Auburn,  Alabama.     July.      Underwood. 

The  species  is  apparently  allied  to  B.  rubeus,  but  is  very  distinct  by 
its  small  size,  cespitose  habit,  color  of  the  flesh  of  the  stem  and  by  the 
peculiar  hues  assumed  where  wounded.  When  the  pileus  cracks  the 
chinks  become  yellow  as  in  B.  subtomentosus.  The  species  belongs  to 
the  tribe  Subtomentosi.  Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  24,  No.  3. 

B.  subtomento'sus  L. — sub;  tomentosus,  downy.  Pileus  convex  or 
nearly  plane,  soft,  dry,  villoso-tomentose ,  subolivaceous ,  concolorous  be- 
neath the  cuticle,  often  cracked  in  areas.  Flesh  white  or  pallid.  Tubes 
adnate  or  somewhat  depressed  around  the  stem,  yellow,  their  mouths 
large,  angular.  Stem  stout,  somewhat  ribbed-sulcate,  scabrous  or 
scurfy  with  minute  dots.  Spores  10—12.5x4-5^. 

Pileus  1-4  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2.5  m-  long,  2-5  lines  thick. 

Common  and  variable.  The  pileus  is  usually  olivaceous  or  yellow- 
28  433 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus,  ish-brown,  but  it  may  be  reddish-brown  or  taTvny-red.  When  it  cracks 
the  chinks  become  yellow.  The  species,  as  I  understand  it,  may  be 
distinguished  from  its  near  relative,  B.  chrysenteron,  by  its  paler  flesh, 
the  clearer  yellow  tubes  not  changing  to  blue  where  wounded,  and  by 
the  chinks  of  the  pileus  becoming  yellow.  The  species  is  recorded 
edible  by  Cordier,  Curtis  and  Palmer.  Gillet  says  it  is  only  medium  in 
quality.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Found  and  eaten  in  West  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  New  Jersey,  Penn- 
sylvania. Specimens  received  from  Indiana,  Minnesota,  Alabama. 
I  have  not  seen  any  change  of  color  in  flesh  or  tubes.  It  is  common 
in  Woodland  Cemetery  and  Fairmount  Park,  Philadelphia.  If  the 
tubes  are  not  removed  the  dish  is  slimy.  The  B.  chrysenteron  also 
makes  such  a  dish  when  stewed,  but  fried,  and  well  done,  both  species 
are  decidedly  good. 

B.  CSespito'sus  Pk. — cespitose.  Pileus  broadly  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  sometimes  slightly  concave  by  the  elevation  of  the  margin,  even, 
brown  or  blackish-brown,  the  margin  often  a  little  paler  or  reddish- 
brown.  Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  red.  Tubes  adnate  or  slightly  de- 
current,  yellow,  their  mouths  rather  large,  angular,  concolorous.  Stem 
short,  even,  solid,  glabrous,  tapering  upward,  brown  or  reddish-brown. 
Spores  oblong-elliptic,  lOft  long,  5/*  broad. 
Pileus  1-2.5  cm-  broad.  Stem  2-2.5  cm.  long,  4-6  mm.  thick. 

Cespitose.     Virginia.      August.      R.  S.  Phifer. 

A  small  species  growing  in  tufts  and  referable  to  the  tribe  Subtomen- 
tosi.  The  tubes  retain  their  bright  yellow  color  in  the  dried  specimens. 
Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  January  27,  1900. 

Edible  qualities  not  stated. 

B.  spadi'ceus  Schaeff. — nut  brown.  Pileus  convex  or  plane,  moder- 
ately compact,  dry,  tomentose,  opaque,  date-brown,  irregularly  cracked. 
Flesh  white,  unchangeable,  brownish-red  above.  Tubes  adnate,  yellow, 
their  mouths  minute,  subrotund.  Stem  firm,  clavate,  even,  woolly-scaled, 
yellow  or  brownish,  yellowish-white  within.  Spores  12x4/4. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad. 

Woods.      New  England,  Frost. 

This  species  is  admitted  on  the  authority  of  Mr.  Frost  who  alone  has 
recorded  it  in  this  country.  But  specimens  received  from  him  under 

434 


Polyporaceee 

this  name  do  not  in  my  opinion  belong  to  it,  and  its  occurrence  here  is  Boletus, 
somewhat  doubtful.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

In  oak  woods  near  Bartram's  Garden,  West  Philadelphia,  in  1887- 
1888,  I  found  several  Boleti  answering  the  description,  exactly,  of  B. 
spadiceus.  They  proved  to  be  good  eating. 

B.  radi'cans  Pers. — radix,  a  root.  Pileus  convex,  dry,  subtomen- 
tose,  olivaceous-cinereus,  becoming  pale-yellowish,  the  margin  thin,  in- 
volute. Flesh  pale-yellow,  instantly  changing  to  dark  blue,  taste  bit- 
terish. Tubes  adnate,  their  mouths  large,  unequal,  lemon-yellow.  Stem 
even,  tapering  downward  and  radicating,  flocculose  with  a  reddish 
bloom,  pale-yellow,  becoming  naked  and  dark  with  a  touch. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  2  in.  long,  6  lines  thick. 

Woods.      Ohio,  Morgan. 

Of  the  American  plant  Mr.  Morgan  says  that  the  pileus  is  quite  firm 
and  dry,  becomes  reddish  or  brownish-yellow  and  nearly  glabrous, 
that  the  flesh  is  pale-yellow,  but  that  he  has  not  observed  any  bluish 
tinge,  and  that  the  spores  are  olive,  fusiform,  10— 12.5x5;*.  Those  of  the 
European  plant  have  been  described  as  very  pale  ocher,  almost  white, 
6ju,  long,  3/x  broad.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

Near  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa.      W.  C.  Alderson,  1894. 

Several  specimens  brought  to  me  were  eaten.  The  change  in  color 
of  flesh  was  instantaneous  upon  exposure  to  the  air.  Taste  strong  and 
raw  rather  than  bitterish.  The  caps  alone  were  cooked,  and  dish  marked 
"fine." 

B.  muta'bilis  Morg. — changeable.  Jour.  Cin.  Soc.  Nat.  Sci.,  Vol. 
VII.  Pileus  convex,  then  plane  or  depressed,  compact,  dry,  sub- 
tomentose,  brown.  Flesh  bright-yellow,  promptly  changing  to  blue 
where  wounded.  Tubes  adnate  or  subdecurrent,  their  mouths  large, 
angular,  unequal,  some  of  them  compound,  yellow  changing  to  green- 
ish yellow  and  quickly  becoming  blue  where  wounded.  Stem  stout, 
solid,  flexuous,  subsulcate,  yellowish  beneath  the  brown  dot-like  scales, 
bright  yellow  within.  Spores  olive,  fusiform,  12-13x5^. 

Pileus  2.5-4  m-  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  6  lines  thick. 

Thick  woods.      Ohio,  Morgan. 

A  shade  of  yellow  sometimes  appears  beneath  the  brown  of  the  pileus, 
and  as  the  plants  grow  old  the  pileus  becomes  blackish,  glabrous  and 

435 


Polyporaceas 

Boletus,  shining.     The  stem  increases  in  thickness  above  and  downward.     Peck, 
Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  badi'ceps  Pk. — badius,  bay  and  head.  (Plate  CXVI,  p.  420.) 
Pileus  firm,  convex  or  somewhat  centrally  depressed  when  mature,  dry, 
velvety,  obliquely  truncate  on  the  margin,  bay-red  or  dark-maroon 
color.  Flesh  white  unchangeable,  taste  and  odor  mild,  sweet,  sug- 
gestive of  molasses.  Tubes  plane,  adnate,  white  or  whitish,  becoming 
dingy  with  age,  the  mouths  minute.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  swollen  in 
the  middle,  radicating,  glabrous,  solid,  brownish. 

Pileus  4-8  cm.  broad.      Stem  4-5  cm.  long,  1.5-3  cm-  thick. 

Oak  woods.  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.  August  and  September.  Charles 
Mcllvaine. 

The  truncate  or  beveled  margin  of  the  pileus  is  a  striking  feature  in 
this  species.  It  is  about  4  mm.  broad  and  as  even  as  if  cut  with  a 
knife.  Sometimes  the  surface  of  the  stem  ruptures  transversely  just  be- 
low the  top,  the  liberated  shreds  above  curling  upward  against  the  tubes 
and  those  below  curving  outward  and  downward.  In  mature  plants 
brownish  spots  appear  in  the  flesh  of  the  pileus.  "When  cooked  it  is 
of  high  flavor  and  tender  as  kidney,"  C.  Mcllvaine.  Peck,  Bull.  Tor- 
rey  Bot.  Club,  January  27,  1900. 

LACERI'PEDES — lacerated  stem. 

Stem  elongated,  coarsely  pitted  or  deeply  and  lacunosely  reticulated 
in  small  hollows,  the  ridges  somewhat  intumescent  in  wet  weather  and 
more  or  less  lacerated,  giving  a  rough  or  shaggy  appearance  to  the  stem. 

The  species  of  this  tribe  are  few,  very  closely  allied  and  so  far  as 
known  are  peculiar  to  this  country. 

Pileus  viscid I 

Pileus  dry B .  Russelli 

I.  Stem  red  in  the  depressions,  tubes  tinged  with  green.  .  .B.  Morgani 
I .  Stem  pale-yellow,  tubes  not  greenish B.  Betula 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  Rus'selli  Frost — Russell's  Boletus.  (Plate  CXVIII,  fig.  2,  p.  436.) 
Pileus  thick,  hemispherical  or  convex,  dry,  covered  with  downy  scales  or 
bundles  of  red  hairs,  yellowish  beneath  the  tomentum,  often  cracked  in 

436 


PLATE  CXVIII. 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Brlecoe  -  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


FIG. 

1.  BOLETUS  SEPARANS, 

2.  BOLETUS  RUSSELLI, 

3.  BOLETUS  ILLULENS, 


PAGE.       FIG.  PAGE 

4.  BOLETUS  SCA HER  AREOLATUS,  461-453    ' 

5.  BOLETUS  EUULJS,  445 


Polyporaceae 

areas.     Flesh  yellowish,   unchangeable.      Tubes  subadnate,   often  de-  Boletus, 
pressed  around  the  stem,  rather  large,  dingy-yellow  or  yellowish-green. 
Stem  very  long,  equal  or  tapering  upward,  roughened  by  the  lacerated 
margins  of  the  reticular  depressions,  red  or  brownisli-red.    Spores  olive- 
brown,    18—22x8— i  o/u,. 

PileilS  1.5-4  m-  broad.      Stem  3-7  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

This  is  distinguished  from  the  other  species  by  the  dry  squamulose 
pileus  and  the  color  of  the  stem.  The  latter  is  sometimes  curved  at  the 
base.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

B.  Russelli  occurs  in  the  West  Virginia  mountains,  where  I  found 
and  ate  it  in  August,  1883.  Though  solitary  in  its  method  of  growth, 
it  is  frequent  in  many  parts  of  Pennsylvania,  among  leaves  in  mixed 
woods.  August  to  October. 

Taste  when  raw,  sweet,  mild.  Cooked  it  is  rather  soft,  tasty.  Tubes 
and  stem  should  be  removed. 

B.  Mor'gani  Pk.  Pileus  convex,  soft,  glabrous  viscid,  red  or  yel- 
low, or  red  fading  to  yellow  on  the  margin.  Flesh  whitish  tinged  with 
red  and  yellow,  unchangeable.  Tubes  convex,  depressed  around  the 
stem,  rather  long  and  large,  bright-yellow  becoming  greenish-yellow. 
Stem  elongated,  tapering  upward,  pitted  with  long,  narrow  depressions, 
yellow,  red  in  the  depressions,  colored  within  like  the  flesh  of  the  pileus. 
Spores  olive-brown,  18-22/1.  long,  about  half  as  broad. 

PileilS  1.5-2.5  in.  broad.      Stem  3-5  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Rocky  hillsides  in  woods  of  deciduous  trees.      Kentucky,  Morgan. 

In  wet  weather  the  anastomosing  ridges  of  the  stem  swell  and  become 
broadly  winged,  thereby  giving  the  stem  a  peculiar  lacerated  appear- 
ance. The  glabrous  viscid  pileus  and  the  coloration  of  the  stem  distin- 
guish the  species.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  Morgani  is  found  in  like  localities  with  B.  Russelli.  Excepting  in 
its  smooth,  viscid  cap  and  whitish  flesh,  it  closely  resembles  the  latter. 
The  ridges  in  the  stems  of  both  species  swell  when  moist. 

Its  edible  qualities  are  the  same  as  B.  Russelli. 

B.  Be'tula  Schw. — birch.  Pileus  convex,  viscose  and  shining  in  wet 
weather,  tessellately  cracked  and  reticulated,  orange-fawn  color,  rather 
small.  Flesh  yellowish-white.  Tubes  separating,  rather  large,  yellow, 
almost  like  those  of  B.  subtomentosus  but  not greenisli.  Stem  long, 


Polyporacese 

Boletus,  attenuated  downward,  everywhere  covered  with  a  deciduous  reticulated 
bark  two  lines  high  and  separating  like  the  bark  of  birches,  pale-yellow 
without  and  within. 

Pileus  1.5  in.  broad.      Stem  5-6  in.  long. 

Ligneous  earth.  North  Carolina,  ScJiweinitz,  Curtis;  Pennsylvania, 
Schweinitz.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

During  several  seasons  I  found  B.  Betula  in  Woodland  Cemetery, 
Philadelphia. 

Edible  qualities  good. 

CALO'PODES.     Gr. — beautiful;    Gr. — feet. 

Stem  stout,  at  first  bulbous,  typically  venose-reticulated  with  veins. 
Tubes  adnate,  their  mouths  not  reddish. 

The  reticulate  stem  and  adnate  tubes  of  one  color  distinguish  the 
species  of  this  tribe.  In  the  Luridi  the  mouths  of  the  tubes  are  differ- 
ently colored,  and  in  the  closely  related  Edules  the  tubes  are  more  or 
less  depressed  around  the  stem  or  sub-free,  and  their  pores  are  com- 
monly stuffed  when  young.  Fries  did  not  admit  species  with  whitish 
tubes  into  this  tribe,  but  we  have  done  so  in  those  cases  in  which  this 
was  the  only  character  to  exclude  them. 

Tubes  yellow  or  yellowish I 

Tubes  white  or  whitish,  at  least  when  young 7 

I .    Tubes  or  flesh  changing  to  blue  where  wounded 2 

I .    Tubes  or  flesh  not  changing  to  blue  where  wounded 5 

2.    Pileus  red,  at  least  when  young 3 

2.    Pileus  some  other  color 4 

3.    Stem  red B.  Peckii 

3.    Stem  yellow  or  reddish  only  at  the  base B.  speci'osus 

4.    Tubes  angular,   pileus  olivaceous B.  calopus 

4.    Tubes  rotund,  pileus  not  olivaceous B.  pachypus 

5 .    Pileus  viscid B.  Curtisii 

5.    Pileus  pulverulent,   stems  cespitose B.  retipes 

5.    Pileus  neither  viscid  nor  pulverulent 6 

6.    Stem  yellow B.  ornatipes 

6.    Stem  brown B.  modestus 

6.    Stem  yellowish-white B.  rimosellus 

7.    Pil-eus  some  shade  of  red 8 

438 


Polyporaceae 

7.    Pileus  some  shade  of  brown  or  gray 9  Boletus. 

8.    Stem  pallid  or  yellowish B.  rubignosus 

8.    Stem  dark-brown B.  ferrugineus 

9.    Pileus  pale-brown,  stem  flexuous B.  flexuosipes 

9.    Pileus  gray  or  grayish-black,  stem  straight B.  griseus 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  specio'sus  Frost — handsome.  Pileus  at  first  very  thick,  subglo- 
bose,  compact,  then  softer,  convex,  glabrous  or  nearly  so,  red.  Flesh 
pale-yellow  or  bright  lemon-yellow,  changing  to  blue  where  wounded. 
Tubes  adnate,  small,  subrotund,  plane  or  but  slightly  depressed  around 
the  stem,  bright  lemon-yellow,  becoming  dingy-yellow  with  age,  chang- 
ing to  blue  where  wounded.  Stem  stout,  subequal  or  somewhat  bul- 
bous, reticulated,  bright  lemon-yellow  without  and  within,  sometimes 
reddish  at  the  base.  Spores  oblong-fusiform,  pale  ochraceous-brown, 
10-1 2. 5x4-5/4. 

Pileus  3-7  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  10-24  lines  thick. 

Thin  woods.      New  England,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck. 

This  is  a  very  beautiful  Boletus.  When  young  the  whole  plant  ex- 
cept the  surface  of  the  pileus  is  of  a  vivid  lemon-yellow  color.  Wounds 
quickly  change  to  green,  then  to  blue.  The  color  of  the  pileus  ap- 
proaches closely  to  solferino.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

Caps  of  specimens  found  in  mixed  woods  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  were 
minutely  areolate  when  old.  Stems  yellow  at  top  and  with  purplish  red 
over  the  bright  yellow  toward  the  bulbous  base,  solid,  bright  yellow 
within. 

Stems  and  caps  are  edible  and  rank  high  in  flavor  and  texture. 

B.  illu'dens  Pk. — deceiving.  (Plate  CXVIII,  fig.  3,  p.  436.)  Pileus 
convex,  dry,  subglabrous,  yellowish-brown  or  grayish-brown,  sometimes 
tinged  with  red,  especially  in  the  center.  Flesh  pallid  or  yellowish. 
Tubes  bright  yellow,  plane  or  somewhat  convex  when  old,  adnate,  their 
mouths  angular  or  subrotund,  often  larger  near  the  stem.  Stem  nearly 
equal,  sometimes  abruptly  pointed  at  the  base,  glabrous,  pallid  or  yel- 
lowish, coarsely  reticulated  either  wholly  or  at  the  top  only.  Spores 
oblong  or  subfusiform,  yellowish-brown  tinged  with  green,  1 1  —  12.5x4— 5/*. 

Pileus  1-5-3  m-  broad.      Stem  1.5-2.5  in.  long,  3-5  lines  thick. 

439 


Polyporaceae 

Boietns.  Woods  and  copses.  Port  Jefferson.  July.  Peck,  5oth  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Found  in  plenty  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  September,  1898.  On  ground 
and  old  stumps  in  mixed  woods.  Identified  by  Professor  Peck. 

Taste  and  smell  pleasant.  Cooked  as  egg-plant  it  is  one  of  the  best. 
Remove  tubes. 

B.  Peck'ii  Frost — after  C.  H.  Peck.  PileilS  convex,  firm,  dry,  sub- 
glabrous,  red,  fading  to  yellowish-red  or  buff-brown  with  age,  the  margin 
usually  retaining  its  red  color  longer  than  the  disk.  Tubes  adnate  or 
slightly  decurrent,  nearly  plane,  yellow,  changing  to  blue  where  wounded. 
Stem  equal  or  subventricose,  reticulated,  red,  yellow  at  the  top.  Spores 
oblong,  pale  ochraceous-brown,  9-12x4-5^. 

Var.  Ice'vipes.      Stem  reticulated  above,  even  below. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Woods  of  frondose  trees.    New  York,  Peck.    Peck,  Boletiof  theU.  S. 

B.  cal'DpllS  Fr.  Gr. — beautiful ;  Gr. — foot:  Pileus  globose,  then 
convex,  unpolished,  subtomentose ,  olivaceous.  FlesJl  pallid,  slightly 
changing  to  blue  when  wounded.  Tubes  adnate,  their  mouths  minute, 
angular,  yellow.  Stem  firm,  conical,  then  elongated  and  subequal, 
reticulated,  wJiolly  scarlet  or  at  the  apex  only,  sometimes  colored  like 
the  pileus  toward  the  base.  Spores  fusiform,  yellowish-brown,  /-8x 

3-4P-- 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  longer  than  the  diameter  of  the  pileus, 
Woods.   North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Pennsylvania,  Schwein- 

itz;  New  England,  Sprague,  Bennett.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  oma'tipes  Pk. — ornate-stem.  (Boletus  retipes,  Rep.  23.)  Pileus 
convex,  firm,  dry,  glabrous  or  very  minutely  tomentose,  grayish-brown 
or  yellowish-brown.  Flesh  yellow  or  pale-yellow.  Tubes  adnate,  plane, 
or  concave,  rarely  convex,  the  mouths  small  or  medium  size,  clear-yel- 
low. Stem  firm,  subequal,  distinctly  and  beautifully  reticulated,  yellow 
without  and  within.  Spores  oblong,  ocliraceous-brown ,  12-16x4-5/4. 

PileilS  2-5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Thin  woods  and  open  places.      New  York,  Peck. 

The  color  of  the  tubes  becomes  darker  with  age,  but  it  does  not 
change  to  blue  where  wounded.  The  species  is  related  to  the  next  fol* 

440 


Polyporaceae 

lowing  one  with  which  it  has  sometimes  been  confused,  but  from  which  Boletus, 
it  is  clearly  distinct.      The  color  of  the  spores  is  quite  dark  and  ap- 
proaches snuff-brown.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 
Edible.      Good. 

B.  re'tipes  B.  and  C. — reticulate  stem.  PileilS  convex,  dry •,  powdered 
with  yellow,  sometimes  rivulose  or  cracked  in  areas.  Tubes  adnate, 
yellow.  Stem  subequal,  cespitose,  reticulate  to  the  base,  pulverulent 
below.  Spores  grcenisJi-ocliraceous ,  12-15x4-5^. 

Pileus  1.5-2  in.  broad.      Stem  2  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

The  tufted  mode  of  growth,  pulverulent  pileus  and  paler-colored 
spores  separate  this  species  from  the  preceding  one.  Peck,  Boleti 
of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia,  1882-1885.    Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  ;  New  Jersey,  Mcllvaine. 

The  caps,  alone,  of  this  species,  are  desirable,  the  stems  not  cooking 
well.  Its  way  of  bunching  itself  gratifies  the  collector,  as  do  its  flavor 
and  quality. 

B.  pacliypus  Fr.  Gr. — thick-footed.  Pileus  convex,  subtomentose,. 
brownish  or  pale  tan-color.  Flesh  thick,  whitish,  changing  slightly  to 
blue.  Tubes  rather  long,  somewhat  depressed  around  the  stem,  their 
mouths  round,  pale-yellow,  at  length  tinged  with  green.  Stem  thick, 
firm,  reticulated,  at  first  ovate-bulbous,  then  elongated,  equal,  varie- 
gated with  red  and  pale-yellow.  Spores  large,  ovate,  pale  yellowish- 
ochraceous,  12.5-14x5-6^. 

Pileus  4-8  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long. 

Woods,  either  of  pine  or  beech. 

This  species  is  noted  for  its  thick,  stout  stem,  which  sometimes  at- 
tains a  diameter  of  more  than  two  inches.  It  approaches  the  Edules  in 
habit,  but  according  to  Gillet  it  is  poisonous,  or  at  least  to  be  suspect- 
ed, has  a  penetrating  unpleasant  odor  and  a  somewhat  nauseous  flavor. 
He  also  describes  the  pores  as  at  first  whitish.  The  stem  is  sometimes 
intensely  blood-red.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

A  common  species  in  West  Virginia  mountains,  1881—1885,  in  beech 
groves.  August  to  frost.  It  is  rare  in  the  pines  of  New  Jersey,  though 
I  have  found  it  there.  Like  B.  felleus,  its  size  and  attractiveness  induce 
the  finder  to  over  and  over  again  try  cooking  it,  hoping  the  discovery  of 
a  successful  way  to  rid  it  of  its  unpleasantness.  I  have  never  suc- 
ceeded It  is  not  poisonous. 

441 


Polyporacese 

Boletus.  B.  rimosel'lus  Pk. — cracked.  PileilS  broadly  convex,  flat  or  irregu- 
lar, glabrous,  tessellately  cracked,  dark-brown.  Flesh  whitish.  Tubes 
adnate  or  sinuately  decurrent,  somewhat  depressed  around  the  stem, 
pale-yellow,  becoming  darker  or  brownish  with  age.  Stem  tapering  up- 
ward, broadly  reticulated  with  brown  veins,  yellowish-white.  Spores 
fusiform,  I5-I7.5X5-6/*. 

Pileus  3-5  in.  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  6-9  lines  thick. 

Mixed  woods.      North  Carolina,  C.  J .  Ciirtis. 

I  have  described  this  species  from  the  notes  and  a  single  dried  speci- 
men sent  me  by  Mr.  Curtis.  More  extended  observation  may  require 
some  modification  of  the  description.  The  color  of  the  spores  is  de- 
scribed as  brown.  They  are  remarkable  for  their  size.  Peck,  Boleti 
of  the  U.  S. 

B.  modes'tllS  Pk. — modest.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  often 
irregular,  firm,  dry,  very  minutely  tomentose,  yellowish-brown.  Flesh 
gray  or  pinkish-gray.  Tubes  nearly  plane,  adnate  or  subdecurrent, 
the  mouths  angular,  pale-ochraceous.  Stem  equal,  reticulated,  brown. 
Spores  elliptical,  10x5^. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  2-4  lines  thick. 

Grassy  ground  in  thin  woods.      New  York,  Peck. 

Miss  Banning  finds  in  Maryland  what  appears  to  be  a  form  of  this 
species  in  which  the  part  of  the  hymenium  near  the  stem  consists  of 
lamellae,  the  rest  of  tubes.  The  species  needs  further  investigation. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  Cur'tisii  Berk. — after  Dr.  Curtis.  Pileus  hemispherical  or  con- 
vex, viscose,  golden-yellow.  Tubes  depressed  around  the  stem,  nearly 
free,  their  mouths  umber,  at  length  tawny.  Stem  slender,  attenuated 
upward,  polished,  reticulated,  straw-colored.  Spores  ferruginous,  sub- 
elliptical,  slightly  attenuated  at  each  end. 

Pileus  i  in.  or  more  broad.      Stem  2  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick. 

Pine  woods.     North  and  South  Carolina,  Curtis. 

In  the  original  description  the  stem  of  this  species  is  said  to  be  hol- 
low. Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  gri'seus  Frost — gray.  Pileus  broadly  convex,  firm,  dry,  sub- 
glabrous,  gray  or  grayish-black .  Flesh  whitish  or  gray.  Tubes  adnate 

442 


Polyporaceee 

or  slightly  depressed  around  the  stem,  nearly  plane,  their  mouths  small,   Boletus, 
subrotund,  white  or  whitish.     Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward, 
distinctly  reticulated,  whitish  or  yellowish,   sometimes  reddish  toward 
the  base.      Spores  ochraceous-brown,  1 0-14x4-5^. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Thin  woods  and  open  places.      New  York,  Peck. 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  flexuos'ipes  Pk. — flexuous  stem.  Pileus  convex  or  plane,  even, 
subtomentose,  pale-brown.  Flesh  white,  unchangeable,  the  cuticle 
separable.  Tubes  long,  convex,  decurrent,  white  or  whitish,  becoming 
brownish  with  age.  Stem  flexuous,  solid,  reticulated,  whitish  or  pallid, 
changing  to  brown  where  bruised.  Spores  7.5-10x4^1. 

Pileus  3-4  in.  broad.     Stem  4-6  in.  long,  8-15  lines  thick. 

Mixed  woods.  North  Carolina,  C.  J.  Curtis.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
U.  S. 

B.    ferrugi'neus    Frost — rust    color.     Pileus    convex,    soft,    subto- 
mentose,   dark    reddish-brown.     Flesh    white,    unchangeable.     Tubes 
generally  adnate,  dingy-white,  their  mouths  stained  brown  by  the  spores. 
Stem  short,  reticulated,  dark-brown.      Spores   10-13x6/4. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad. 

Borders  of  woods.     New  England,  Frost.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Alabama,  1897. 

B.  rubigino'sus  Fr. — rusty.  Pileus  convex,  soft,  pubescent,  soon 
bare,  brownish-rust  color.  Flesh  subspongy,  white,  unchangeable. 
Tubes  adnate,  their  mouths  unequal,  white.  Stem  firm,  stout,  reticu- 
lated, at  first  whitish  or  pallid,  then  yellowish,  subcinereous  or  yellow- 
ish-olivaceous where  touched. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  I  in.  thick. 

Woods.      North  Carolina,  Curtis. 

Although  apparently  distinct,  this  and  the  two  preceding  species  are 
not  sufficiently  well  known.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  tabaci'nus  Und.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex  or  nearly  plane,  subgla- 
brous,  often  cracked  in  areas,  tawny-brown.  Flesh  at  maturity  soft  and 
similarly  colored.  Tubes  concave  or  nearly  plane,  depressed  around 

443 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus,  the  stem,  their  mouths  small,  angular,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Stem 
subequal,  solid,  reticulated,  concolorous.  Spores  oblong  or  sfibfusi- 
form,  I2.5-I4X5//,.  Pileus  2.5-5  in.  broad.  Stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng,  6-10 
lines  thick. 

Along  road-sides.     Alabama.      May.      Underwood. 
•The  species  is  referable  to  the  section  Calopodes,  but  the  tubes  are 
more  or  less  depressed  about  the  stem.     Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club, 
Vol.  23,  No.  10. 

EDU'LES — edulis,  edible. 

Tubes  subfree,  rounded-depressed  around  the  stem,  their  mouths  not 
at  first  reddish,  but  commonly  white-stuffed.  Stem  stout,  bulbous  as 
in  the  Luridi  but  not,  with  a  few  exceptions,  reticulate  nor  dotted  with 
pointed  scales  nor  red.  Flesh  scarcely  changeable.  Taste  pleasant. 

This  tribe  is  not  sharply  limited  but  partakes  to  some  extent  of  the 
characters  of  Calopodes  and  Luridi.  From  the  former  its  nearly  free 
and  at  first  white-stuffed  tubes  and  its  generally  even  stem  separate  it, 
from  the  latter  its  tubes  with  concolorous  mouths  or  at  least  with  mouths 
not  red  or  reddish  when  young  will  distinguish  it.  The  species  are  gen- 
erally of  large  or  medium  size  and  noted  for  their  esculent  qualities. 

Stem  brownish-lilac  or  chocolate  color i 

Stem  some  other  color 2 

I .    Stem  reticulated B.  separans 

I.    Stem  not  reticulated,  furfuraceous B.  eximius 

2.    Pileus  viscid B.  limatulus 

2.    Pileus  not  viscid 3 

3.    Tubes  yellow  with  no  tinge  of  green 4 

3..   Tubes  tinged  with  green  or  becoming  green  where  bruised 6 

4.    Pileus  whitish B.  aestivalis 

4.    Pileus  not  whitish 5 

5 .    Stem  glabrous B.  affinis 

5 .    Stem  pubescent B.  impolitus 

6.    Pileus  becoming  white-spotted  where  bruised B.  leprosus 

6.    Pileus  not  becoming  spotted 7 

7.    Pileus  glabrous B.  edulis 

7.    Pileus  not  glabrous 8 

8.    Stem  reticulated,  whitish  or  pallid B.  variipes 

8.    Stem  even,  brownish-red. .  .  . , B.  decorus 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

444 


Polyporaceee 

B.  sep'arans  Pk.  (Plate  CXVIII,  fig.  i,  p.  436.)  Pileus  convex,  Boletus, 
thick,  glabrous,  subshining,  often  pitted,  pitted  or  corrugated,  brownish- 
red  or  dull-lilac,  sometimes  fading  to  yellowish  on  the  margin.  Flesh 
white,  unchangeable.  Tubes  at  first  nearly  plane,  adnate,  white  and 
stuffed,  then  convex,  depressed  around  the  stem,  ochraceous-yellow  or 
brownish-yellow  and  sometimes  separating  from  the  stem  by  the  expan- 
sion of  the  pileus.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  reticulated 
either  wholly  or  in  the  upper  part  only,  colored  like  the  pileus  or  a 
little  paler,  sometimes  slightly  furfuraceous.  Sporessubfusiform,  brown- 
ish-ochraceous,  12-1 5x5-6^. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.     Stem  2-4  in.  long,  6-12  lines  thick. 

Thin  grassy  woods.     New  York,  Peck.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.'  S. 

West  Virginia.  September,  1881.  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania. 
October,  1887,  Mcllvaine.  Indiana,  October,  1898.  Dr.J.R.  Weist, 
H.  I.  Miller. 

One  of  the  handsomest  of  Boleti.  It  varies  greatly  in  size  and 
color,  but  traces  of  purple  or  lilac  are  always  detectable.  The  reticu- 
lations upon  the  stem  are  often  obscure,  especially  in  young  specimens. 

It  is  pleasant  when  raw,  and  quite  equal  to  any  Boletus  when  cooked. 

B.  edu'lis   Bull.—  edulis,  edible.      (Plate  CXVIII,  fig.    5,  p.  436.) 

Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  gla- 

.  (Plate  CXIX.) 

brous,  moist,  at  first  compact,  then 
soft,  variable  in  color,  grayish-red, 
brownish-red  or  tawny-brown,  often 
paler  on  the  margin.  Flesh  white 
or  yellowish,  reddish  beneath  the 
cuticle.  Tubes  convex,  nearly  free, 
long,  minute,  round,  white,  then y el- 

low  and  greenish.     Stem   short  or 

.    i  ,  n  u  1       i,  BOLETUS  EDULIS,  VAR.  CLAVIPES. 

long,  straight  or   flexuous,  subequal  2>  3>  BOLETUS  EDULIS. 

or  bulbous,  stout,  more  or  less  reticu- 
late,  especially  above,   whitish,   pallid  or  brownish.      Spores  oblong- 
fusiform,  12— i  5x4— 5/u.. 

Var.  cla'vipes.  Plate  CXIX.  Stem  tapering  upward  from  an  en- 
larged base,  everywhere  reticulated. 

Pileus  4-6  in.  broad.      Stem  2-6  in.  long,  ^-18  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  open  places.     Not  rare.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

445 


Polyporaceae 

•Boletus.       Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller,  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist;  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania, 
West  Virginia,  Mcllvaine. 

Some  species  of  fungi  appear  to  have  that  prize  of  Fairyland — the 
Wishing  Cap — and  by  its  power  be  able  to  take  on  any  form  they  please. 
Boletus  edulis  is  one  of  them.  Its  variableness  is  puzzling.  It  is  eaten 
everywhere  where  found  and  is  a  favorite.  Carefully  sliced,  dried  and 
kept  where  safe  from  mold  it  may  be  prepared  for  the  table  at  any 
season. 

TJ.  edulis  Bull. — Var.  davipes  Pk.  (Plate  CXIX,  fig.  i,  p.  445.) 
Pileus  fleshy,  convex,  glabrous,  grayish-red,  bay-red  or  chestnut-color. 
Flesh  white,  unchangeable.  Tubes  at  first  concave  or  nearly  plane, 
white  and  stuffed,  then  convex,  slightly  depressed  around  the  stem, 
ochraceous  yellow.  Stem  mostly  obclavate  (inversely  club-shaped) 
and  reticulate  to  the  base.  Spores  oblong-fusiform,  12-15x4-5^. 

The  club-stemmed  Boletus  is  so  closely  related  to  the  edible  Boletus 
and  so  closely  connected  by  the  intermediate  forms  that  it  seems  to  be 
only  a  variety  of  it,  but  one  worthy  of  illustration.  It  differs  in  the 
more  uniform  color  of  the  cap,  in  having  the  tubes  less  depressed 
around  the  stem  and  less  tinted  with  green  when  mature,  and  in  having 
the  stem  more  club-shape  and  commonly  reticulated  to  the  base.  The 
lower  reticulations  are  usually  coarser  but  less  permanent  than  the  up- 
per. The  cap  is  more  highly  colored  when  young  and  is  apt  to  become 
paler  with  age,  but  the  margin  does  not  become  paler  than  the  central 
part,  as  it  so  often  does  in  the  edible  Boletus.  Individuals  sometimes 
occur  in  which  the  stem  is  nearly  cylindric  and  reticulated  only  on  the 
upper  part.  These  connect  so  closely  with  the  edible  Boletus  that  we 
have  considered  this  to  be  a  mere  variety  of  it.  In  size  and  in  edible 
qualities  it  is  very  similar  to  that  species.  Peck,  5Ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State 
Bot. 

Same  in  quality  as  B.  edulis. 

B.  vari'ipes  Pk. — variable  stem.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane, 
thick,  soft,  dry,  scaly,  pointed  scaly  or  minutely  tomentose,  grayish  or 
pale  grayish-brown,  sometimes  tinged  with  yellow  or  ochraceous.  Flesh 
white,  unchangeable.  Tubes  convex  or  nearly  plane,  slightly  depressed 
around  the  stem,  at  first  white,  then  greenish-yellow,  their  mouths 
small,  subrotund,  ochraceous,  stuffed  when  young.  Stem  firm,  reticu- 

446 


Polyporacese 

lated,   whitish    or    pallid.      Spores  oblong-fusiform,   ochraceous-brown  Boletus, 
tinged  with  green,  I2«-1 5x5/A.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  August,  1898.  Stem  slightly  reticulated  at  top, 
indistinctly  striate  below.  'Smell  and  taste  strong,  like  B.  felleus,  but 
sweetish,  not  bitter.  When  tubes  are  removed  and  cap  fried  it  is 
excellent. 

Var.  al'bipes.  Stem  whitish,  wholly  reticulated,  the  reticulations 
coarser  near  the  base.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  August,  1898.  Taste  slightly  acrid,  smell  slight. 
Excellent. 

Var.  pallid 'ipes.  Stem  pallid,  slightly  furfuraceous,  even  or  obscurely 
reticulated  toward  the  base,  distinctly  reticulated  above.  Peck,  Boleti 
of  the  U.  S. 

Satiny,  shining.      Taste  slightly  acrid,  smell  slight.     Excellent. 

Var.  tenu'ipes.      Stem  slender,  elongated.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  August,  1898,  on  decaying  chestnut  stump  and  on 
ground.  Excellent.  Mcllvaine. 

This  species,  with  its  varieties,  grows  in  mixed  woods,  the  density  of 
which  has  much  to  do  with  its  general  appearance.  Individuals  grow- 
ing where  the  sun  plays  upon  them,  show  the  reticulations  plainer  than 
those  maturing  in  the  shade.  The  tubes  should  be  removed  before 
cooking.  The  caps  are  best  fried. 

B.  exi'mius  Pk. — select.  PileuS  at  first  very  compact,  subglobose 
or  hemispherical,  subpruinose,  purplish-brown  or  chocolate  color,  some- 
times with  a  faint  tinge  of  lilac,  becoming  convex,  soft,  smoky-red  or 
pale-chestnut.  Flesh  grayish  or  reddish-white.  Tubes  at  first  con- 
cave or  nearly  plane,  stuffed,  colored  nearly  like  the  pileus,  becoming 
paler  with  age  and  depressed  around  the  stem,  their  mouths  minute, 
rotund.  Stem  stout,  generally  short,  equal  or  tapering  upward,  ab- 
ruptly narrowed  at  the  base,  minutely  branny,  colored  like  or  a  little 
paler  than  the  pileus,  purplish-gray  within.  Spores  subferruginous, 
1 2.5-15x5-6^. 

Pileus  3-10  in.  broad.     Stem  2-4  in.  long,  6-12  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  their  borders.  New  England,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

In  mixed  woods  and  in  new  clearings  near  Bartram's  Garden,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa.  Mcllvaine. 

447 


Polyporaceae 
Boletus.       A  patch  of  it  is  treasure  trove. 

B.  lepro'sus  Pk.  —  leprous.  PileilS  very  convex,  glabrous,  soft  like 
kid,  cinereous-yellowish-drab  or  pale-brown,  slowly  changing  to  whit- 
ish where  bruised,  the  cuticle  separable.  Flesh  white,  changing  to  yel- 
lowish. Tubes  yellow  or  brownish-yellow,  changing  to  greenish  where 
wounded,  plane,  depressed  around  the  stem,  short,  small,  stuffed  when 
young.  Stem  solid,  enlarged  at  the  top,  lemon-yellow.  Spores  oblong- 
fusiform,  12.5-15x5/4. 

Pileus  4-6  in.  broad.      Stem  2  in.  long,  I  in.  thick. 

Mixed  woods.      North  Carolina,  C.  J.  Curtis>. 

This  plant  is  remarkable  for  the  whitish  or  leprous  spots  which  the 
pileus  assumes,  even  from  being  handled,  and  for  the  change  in  the 
color  of  the  flesh  and  tubes.  The  stem  is  very  thick  at  the  top  but 
tapers  downward.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  affi'nis    Pk.  —  related.     PileilS    convex    above    or    nearly   plane, 

subglabrous,   reddish-brown  or  chest- 
Piate  CXX,) 


to  tawny  or  dingy- 
ochraceous  with  age.  Flesh  white. 
Tubes  plane  or  convex,  adnate  or 
slightly  depressed  around  the  stem, 
at  first  white  and  stuffed,  then  glau- 
cous-yellow or  subochraceous,  chang- 
ing to  rusty-ochraceous  where  wound- 
ed. Stem  subequal,  even,  glabrous, 
colored  like  or  paler  than  the  pileus. 
Spores  rusty-ochraceous,  9-12x4-5^. 
The  Related  boletus  belongs  to  the 
tribe  of  Boleti  known  as  Edules  be- 

cause of  their  especially  esculent  character,  but  it  differs  from  the  gen- 
eral character  of  the  tribe  in  having  its  tubes  not  at  all  or  but  slightly 
shortened  around  the  stem  and  in  its  stem  not  being  thickened  or  bulb- 
ous at  the  base.  The  species  is  quite  variable  in  the  color  of  the  cap, 
which  is  generally  darker  in  young  plants,  paler  in  old  ones.  It  may 
be  brown,  reddish-brown  or  btackish-brown  when  young,  but  is  more  or 
less  tinged  with  tawny  or  ochraceous  when  old.  It  is  smooth  and  even 
or  minutely  tomentose  and  sometimes  slightly  rugose.  In  wet  weather 

448 


BOLETUS  AFFINIS. 


the  margin  of  the  cap  sometimes  curves  upward,  giving  a  very  convex  Boletus, 
surface  to  the  tubes.  Sometimes  the  wounded  flesh  slowly  assumes  a 
yellowish  hue.  The  peculiar  rusty-ochraceous  hue  of  the  spores  is  also 
seen  sometimes  in  the  tubes  of  old  specimens.  As  in  many  species,  the 
flesh  of  old  plants  is  more  soft  than  that  of  young  ones.  The  stem  is 
quite  variable  and  is  often  narrowed  downward.  It  is  sometimes  very 
obscurely  reticulated  at  the  top. 

The  cap  is  generally  2-4  in.  broad,  the  stem  1.5-3  m-  l°ng»  4-8  lines 
thick.  The  plants  are  found  in  thin  woods  or  in  bushy  places  in  July 
and  August. 

Var.  maculo ' sus  Pk.  differs  from  the  type  simply  in  having  a  few 
yellowish  spots  scattered  over  the  cap. 

While  not  as  high  flavored  as  some  Boleti  this  is,  nevertheless,  a 
fairly  good  and  perfectly  safe  one.  Peck,  49th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Very  open  timber  in  Woodlands  Cemetery,  Philadelphia.  August, 
1898.  Mcllvaine. 

A  solitary  species  which  does  not  appear  to  be  plentiful.  The  whole 
fungus  is  edible,  but  the  stems  and  tubes  are  of  different  texture  from 
the  caps  and  do  not  cook  well  with  them. 

B.  sestiva'lis  Fr. — pertaining  to  summer.  PileuS  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  even,  glabrous,  whitish,  granulose  in  dry  weather.  Flesh  yel- 
low below,  white  above.  Tubes  nearly  free,  the  mouths  minute,  equal, 
yellow.  Stem  very  thick,  bulbous,  even,  glabrous,  pale  yellow,  red- 
dish within  at  the  base.  Spores  elongated-oval,  greenish-brown,  rather 
dark,  1 1x4— 5/x,. 

Pilens  4-6  in.  broad.     Stem  4-5  in.  long. 

Woods  and  woodland  pastures.  Minnesota,  Johnson;  California,  H. 
and  M. 

A  large  species,  recorded  as  edible  and  said  to  be  pleasant  and  deli- 
cate in  flavor.  I  have  seen  no  specimens  of  this.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
United  States. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  1882,  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  1894,  Mcllvaine, 
on  grassy  margin  of  woods. 

The  flesh  is  sweet,  nutty.      Remove  stems  and  tubes  when  old. 

s 

B.  impoli'tllS  Fr. — unpolished.     PileuS  convex,  dilated,  flocculose, 
at  length  grained  in  lines,   unpolished,  tawny-brown.     Flesh  white  or 
29  449 


Polyporaceee 

•Boletus,  whitish,  unchangeable,  yellowish  under  the  cuticle.  Tubes  free,  their 
mouths  minute,  yellow.  Stem  stout,  subbulbous,  even,  pubescent,  pale- 
yellow,  sometimes  with  a  reddish  zone  near  the  top.  Spores  oval  or 
fusiform,  pale  greenish-brown,  7.5-10x5^. 

Pileus  4-6  in.  broad.      Stem  2  in.  long. 

Oak  woods.      California,  Harkness  and  Moore. 

This  species  is  recorded  as  edible  and  said  to  be  among  the  most  de- 
licious, It  is  evidently  rare  in  this  country.  According  to  Quelet  the 
spores  are  ellipsoid,  papillate,  i5-i8/x  long.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Near  Bartram's  Garden,  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1885.  Thin  mixed 
woods.  Mcllvaine. 

That  this  species  is  edible  and  delicious  is  vouched  for  by  many.  I 
can  add  my  own  pleasurable  experience. 

B.deco'rus  Frost. — decorous.  Pileus  convex,  rather  firm,  tomentose, 
brownish  tinged  with  red,  the  margin  often  darker  colored.  Flesh 
white,  unchangeable.  Tubes  becoming  free,  yellow,  changing  to  green 
where  wounded.  Stem  bulbous,  minutely  branny,  brownish-red',  the 
bulb  sometimes  white  and  attenuated  at  the  base.  Spores  13x5^. 

Rich  woods.      New  England,  Frost.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

Leominster,  Mass.,  C.  F.  Nixon,  August,  1897;  Woodland  Ceme- 
tery, Philadelphia,  Pa.,  August,  1897,  Mcllvaine. 

Cap  2-3  in.  broad.  Stem  2-2  %  in.  high,  but  variable  in  size.  Its 
edible  qualities  are  excellent. 

B.  lima'tulus  Frost — polished.  Pileus  nearly  flat,  thin,  glabrous, 
viscid  when  moist,  somewhat  polished  and  shining  when  dry,  rich  yel- 
lowish-brown. Flesh  reddish  in  the  pileus,  darker  in  the  stem.  Tubes 
depressed  around  the  stem,  greenish-yellow,  their  mouths  yellowish- 
brown.  Stem  small,  subbulbous,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  12- 
15x4-5*1. 

Pileus  1-2.5  in.  broad. 

Woods.     New  England,  Frost. 

By  the  differently-colored  tube  mouths,  this  species  approaches  those 
of  the  next  following  tribe,  but  it  is  placed  here  because  these  are  not 
red  or  reddish.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

B.  au'ripes  Pk. — yellow-stem.  Pileus  convex,  subglabrous,  yellow- 
ish-brown, sometimes  cracking  in  areas  when  old.  Flesh  yellow,  fading 

450 


Polyporaceee 

to  whitish  with  age.      Tubes  nearly  plane,  their  mouths  small,  subro-  Boletus, 
tund,  at  first  stuffed,  yellow.   Stem  nearly  equal,  solid,  even  or  slightly 
reticulated   at   the   top,   bright  yellow,   a  little  paler  within.      Spores 
ochraceous-brown  tinged  with  green,  I2x5/u.. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.      Stem  3-5  in.  long,  8-12  lines  thick. 

Under  mountain  laurel,  Kalmia  latifolia.      Port  Jefferson.     July. 

The  whole  plant,  except  the  upper  surface  of  the  pileus,  is  of  a  beau- 
tiful yellow  color.  The  stem  is  sometimes  more  highly  colored  than 
the  tubes.  The  species  is  referable  to  the  tribe  Edules.  Peck,  5Oth 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     August,  September,  1898.     Mcllvaine. 

In  mixed  woods  in  which  Kalmia  latifolia  is  plentiful.  The  speci- 
mens found  were  in  its  vicinity.  The  caps  are  excellent. 

B.  leptocepll'alus  Pk.  Gr. — thin;  Gr. — head.  Pileus  thin,  broadly 
convex  or  nearly  plane,  dry,  minutely  cracked,  especially  near  the 
margin,  light  tawny-brown,  sometimes  tinged  with  reddish-brown. 
Flesh  yellowish-white,  taste  at  first  mild,  then  slightly  acrid.  Tubes 
subventricose,  depressed  about  the  stem,  nearly  free,  dingy  olive-yellow, 
the  mouths  small,  subrotund.  Stem  nearly  equal,  enlarged  at  the  top, 
solid,  glabrous  or  slightly  pruinose-mealy,  reticulated  above,  colored 
like  the  pileus,  white  within,  with  a  white  mycelium  at  the  base.  Spores 
greenish-olivaceous,  fusiform,  12.5-17.5^  long,  5-61*  broad. 

Pileus  10-12.5  cm.  broad.  Stem  10-12.5  cm.  long,  1.2-1.6  cm. 
thick. 

Dry,  open  woods.     July.     Earle. 

The  reticulation  of  the  upper  part  of  the  stem  appears  to  be  formed 
by  the  decurrent  walls  of  the  tubes.  The  species  belongs  to  the  tribe 
Edules.  Peck,  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  25. 

Edible. 

B.  fra'grans  Vitt. — fragrant.  Fasciculate  or  solitary.  Pileus  1-4  in. 
across,  convex,  dark-brown  or  umber-brown,  often  wavy,  slightly  to- 
mentose,  margin  incurved.  Flesh  very  thick,  yellowish,  sometimes  un- 
changeable, at  others  changing  to  green  or  blue,  and  finally  becoming 
reddish  when  broken.  Tubes  shortened  around  the  stem  and  almost 
free,  %  in.  or  more  long,  openings  small,  roundish,  yellow  then  green- 
ish. Stem  at  first  stout,  ovate,  usually  tapering  at  the  base,  then  length- 

451 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus.,  ening  and  becoming  thinner  upward,  even,  variegated  with  yellow  and 
red,  solid.  Spores  pale-olive,  elongato-fusiform,  10—  1 2x4/4. 

In  woods,  under  oaks,  etc.  Pileus  bronze-brown,  sometimes  with 
purple  shades.  Often  grows  in  dense  clusters,  and  in  this  particular 
differing  from  any  other  British  species.  Very  good  for  eating.  Massee. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.  Oak  woods.  August  to  September,  1894.  Mt. 
Gretna,  Pa.,  1898.  Mcllvaine. 

Solitary.  A  handsome  valuable  species  which  appears  to  be  rare  in 
the  United  States.  Shade  a  beautiful  bronze.  Cap  3-4  in.  across.  A 
dozen  or  more  individuals  were  found  and  eaten.  Excellent. 

B.  frustulo'sus  Pk. — frusttihim,  a  small  bit.  Pileus  thick,  convex 
or  nearly  plane,  subglabrous,  cracked  in  areas,  white  or  whitish.  Flesh 
whitish.  Tubes  equal  to  or  a  little  longer  than  the  thickness  of  the 
flesh  of  the  pileus,  depressed  about  the  stem,  whitish,  becoming  pale 
brown.  -Stem  equal,  solid,  whitish,  reticulated  above.  Spores  15- 
17x5-6;*. 

Pileus  3-5  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  6-IO  lines  thick. 

Open  grounds  and  clay  banks.  Ocean  Springs,  Mississippi  and 
Akron,  Alabama.  May  and  June.  Underwood. 

The  deeply  cracked  surface  of  the  pileus  is  the  most  notable  feature 
of  this  species.  This  sometimes  is  seen  even  in  quite  young  plants. 
The  cracked  areas  are  quite  unequal  in  size.  The  deep  chinks  with 
sloping  sides  cause  them  to  appear  like  frusta  of  polygonal  pyramids. 
In  some  specimens  the  reticulations  of  the  stem  extend  nearly  or  quite 
to  its  base,  and  make  the  place  of  the  species  ambiguous  between  the 
Calopodes  and  Edules.  Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  24,  No.  3. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  September,  1898,  on  soil  over  red  conglomerate 
and  on  road-sides.  Mcllvaine. 

The  deep  cracks  in  the  cap  readily  distinguish  this  species.  After 
rains  the  caps  are  frequently  slightly  dished  and  widely  cracked  at 
margin.  The  exposed  flesh  dries  with  a  fine  silky  gloss.  The  caps 
are  excellent.  The  tubes  and  stem  should  be  removed. 

B.  cras'sipes  Pk. — thick-footed.  (Plate  CXVI,  fig.  5,  p.  420.) 
Pileus  convex  or  centrally  depressed,  firm,  dry,  velvety,  brown  tinged 
with  yellow,  the  wavy  or  lobed  involute  margin  extending  beyond  the 
tubes.  Flesh  lemon-yellow,  unchangeable,  taste  sweet,  odor  like  that 

452 


Polyporaceae 

of  yeast.  Tubes  rather  short,  depressed  around  the  stem,  almost  free,  Boletus, 
yellowish  mottled  with  brown,  the  mouths  minute,  stuffed  when  young. 
Stem  stout,  thick,  sometimes  swollen  in  the  middle  and  sometimes  bulb- 
ous, beautifully  reticulated  but  the  reticulations  sometimes  disappear- 
ing with  age,  orange-yellow  tinged  with  brown.  Flesh  of  a  brighter 
yellow  than  that  of  the  pileus. 

Pileus  5-10  cm.  broad.      Stem  6-8  cm.  long,  2.5-3.5  cm.  thick. 

Oak  woods.     Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     August  and  September.     Mcllvaine. 

The  thick,  beautifully  reticulated  stem,  the  deep  velvety  brown  color 
of  the  pileus  and  the  yellow  color  of  the  flesh  serve  to  distinguish  this 
species.  Peck,  Bull.  Torr.  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  27,  January,  1900. 

It  is  one  of  the  best  edible  mushrooms.  I  have  also  found  it  in  New 
Jersey. 

LU'RIDI. 

Stratum  of  tubes  rounded  toward  the  stem  and  free,  their  mouths  at 
first  closed  and  red.  Pileus  compact,  then  soft,  cushion-shaped,  the 
flesh  juicy,  changeable.  Stem  stout,  at  first  short,  bulbiform,  then 
elongated  and  subequal,  subreticulated  or  dotted. 

Growing  especially  in  frondose  woods.     Very  poisonous. 
In  this  tribe  the  tubes  and  their  mouths  are  differently  colored,  the 
latter  being  red  or  some  shade  of  red.      By  this  character  the  species 
are  easily  distinguished  from  those  of  other  tribes. 

Flesh  distinctly  changing  color  where  wounded I 

Flesh  not  at  all  or  scarcely  changing  color  where  wounded 7 

I .    Flesh  white  or  whitish 2 

I .    Flesh  yellow  or  yellowish 5 

2.    Flesh  changing  to  red  or  violet B.  Satanus 

2.    Flesh  changing  to  blue 3 

3.    Stem  roughened B.  alveolatus 

3 .    Stem  even 4 

4.    Stem  hairy  at  the  base - B.  subvelutipes 

4.    Stem  not  hairy  at  the  base B.  vermiculosus 

5 .    Stem  red " B .  luridus 

5 .    Stem  yellow  or  reddish  only  at  the  base 6 

6.    Pileus  purplish-red B.  purpureus 

6.    Pileus  gray B.   firmus 

6.    Pileus  yellow  or  yellowish B.  magnisporus 

453 


Polyporacese 

Boletus.  7 .    Pileus  blood-red „ , .  „ .  B.  Frostii 

7.    Pileus  reddish-tawny  or  brown B.  Sullivantii 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

All  authors,  up  to  this  date,  agree  in  stating  that  the  species  within 
this  series  are  poisonous.  Experiments  made  by  Smiedeberg  and 
Koppe  with  Boletus  Satanus  developed  symptoms  closely  resembling 
poisoning  by  Amanitae.  Kobert,  who  made  analysis  of  B.  luridus, 
shows  that  it  contains  muscarine,  which  is  one  of  the  most  deadly  poisons. 
Such  a  mass  of  evidence  commands  respect.  It  is  urged  upon  finders 
of  these  species  to  either  leave  them  alone  or  test  them  in  minute 
quantities  until  they  have  established  their  ability  to  eat  them  without 
injury. 

I  have  taken  special  pains  to  establish  the  edibility  of  B.  Satanus  and 
B.  luridus.  For  fifteen  years  I  have  eaten  them  in  quantity  when 
opportunity  afforded,  in  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania. 
My  family,  and  my  friends  in  widely  separated  localities,  have  partaken 
freely  of  them  many  times  and  without  discomfort.  They  are  remark- 
ably fine  eating.  The  same  can  be  said  of  B.  alveolatus,  B.  purpureus, 
B.  subvelutipes.  I  have  not  seen  the  other  species  of  this  tribe. 

I  have  determined  so  many  of  the  reputed  poisonous  species  to  be 
edible,  that  unless  positively  authenticated,  I  do  not  accept  repute  as 
truth,  but  carefully  test  suspicious  species  upon  myself.  When  sure 
there  is  no  danger,  I  as  carefully  have  them  tested  by  my  numerous 
under-tasters — male  and  female. 

B.  Sa'tanus  Lenz. — Satanic.  Pileus  convex,  glabrous,  somewhat 
gluey,  brownish-yellow  or  whitish.  Flesh  whitish,  becoming  reddish  or 
violaceous  where  wounded.  Tubes  free,  yellow,  their  mouths  bright 
red  becoming  orange-colored  with  age.  Stem  thick,  ovate- ventricose, 
marked  above  with  red  reticulations.  Spores  I2x5/*. 

Pileus  3-8  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long. 

WToods.  Rare.  North  Carolina,  Curtis;  New  York,  Peck;  Califor- 
nia, H.  and  M.,  'N.  7.  Ellis. 

Though  mild  to  the  taste,  this  Boletus  is  said  to  be  very  poisonous, 
a  character  suggestive  of  the  specific  name.  Fries  describes  the  color 
of  the  spores  as  earthy-yellow;  Smith  as  rich  brown.  Peck,  Boleti  of 
the  U.  S. 

454 


Polyporaceee 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine.  Boletus. 

Boletus  Satanus  is  sometimes  plentiful  in  spots.  Where  it  luxuriates 
it  is  a  rich  decoration  to  the  ground,  and  earth  upon  upturned-roots 
upon  which  it  often  grows.  It  does  not  live  long  after  reaching  ma- 
turity, but  decomposes  into  a  putrescent  mass. 

Its  reputation  rivals  that  of  the  original  possessor  of  its  name.  But 
old  proverb  sayeth  that  even  "The  Devil  is  not  as  black  as  he  is 
painted."  See  remarks  heading  Luridi. 

B.  alveola'tllS  B.  and  C.  Pileus  convex,  glabrous,  shining,  bright 
crimson  or  maroon-color,  sometimes  paler  and  varied  with  patches  of 
yellow.  Flesh  firm,  white,  changing  to  blue  where  wounded.  Tubes 
adnate,  subdecurrent,  yellow  with  maroon-colored  mouths,  the  hymenial 
surface  uneven  with  irregular  alveolar  depressions.  Stem  very  rough 
with  the  margins  of  rather  coarse  subreticular  depressions,  the  reticula- 
tions bright-red  above  with  yellow  stains.  Spores  yellowish-brown, 
1 2. 5^1 5x4-5/1. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  9  lines  thick. 

Damp  woods.     New  England,  Frost.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  in  mixed  woods 
and  on  banks  of  streams.  Mcllvaine. 

B.  alveolatus  appears  to  be  more  generally  distributed  than  B.  Satanus. 
It  is  not  as  clannish,  though  occasionally  three  or  four  are  found  grow- 
ing together.  When  growing  from  the  banks  of  creeks,  or  between  the 
roots  of  beech  and  other  trees  in  low  places,  it  is  often  deformed  in  cap 
and  stem.  The  texture  is  firm,  close  and  the  taste  is  very  pleasant.  It 
botanically  takes  its  place  in  this  suspected  series.  I  consider  it  one  of 
the  best  Boleti.  See  remarks  heading  Luridi. 

B.  lu'ridus  Schaeff. — lurid  in  color.  Pileus  convex,  tomentose, 
brown-olivaceous,  then  somewhat  viscose,  sooty.  Flesh  yellow,  chang- 
ing to  blue  where  wounded.  Tubes  free,  yellow,  becoming  greenish, 
their  mouths  round,  vermilion,  becoming  orange.  Stem  stout,  vermilion, 
somewhat  orange  at  the  top,  reticulate  or  punctate.  Spores  greenish- 
gray,  15x9. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long. 

The  lurid  Boletus,  though  pleasant  to  the  taste,  is  reputed  very  poison- 
ous. Boletus  rubeolarius  Pers.,  having  a  short  bulbous  scarcely  reticu- 

455 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus,  lated  stem,  is  regarded  as  a  variety  of  this  species.  The  red-stemmed 
Boletus,  B.  erythropus  Pers.,  is  also  indicated  as  a  variety  of  it  by 
Fries.  It  is  smaller  than  B.  luridus,  has  a  brown  or  reddish-brown 
pileus  and  a  slender  cylindrical  stem,  not  reticulated,  but  dotted  with 
squamules.  It  has  been  reported  from  California  by  Harkness  and 
Moore.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Var.  erytliropus  received  from  Dr.  J.  W.  Harshberger,  Philadelphia, 
May,  1896. 

Often  shining  as  if  varnished  and  very  handsome.  I  frequently  found 
it  in  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania  in  mixed  woods 
among  leaves.  Its  reputation  is  bad.  It  is  undoubtedly  edible  by 
many,  and  is  delicious.  The  caution  heading  Luridi  should  be  carefully 
observed. 

B.  purpu'reilS  Fr. — purple.  Pileus  convex,  opaque,  dry,  somewhat 
velvety,  purplish-red.  Flesh  in  the  young  plant  only  becoming  blue, 
then  dark-yellow.  Tubes  nearly  free,  yellow  or  greenish-yellow,  their 
mouths  minute,  purple-orange,  changing  to  blue  where  wounded.  Stem 
stout,  firm,  adorned  with  purple  veins  or  dots,  sometimes  reticulated  at 
the  apex  only,  yellow,  reddish  within,  especially  at  the  base.  Spores 
greenish-brown,  10—12x5—6/1.. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  6-8  lines  thick. 

Woods.  North  Carolina,  Curtis;  New  York,  Peck;  Minnesota,  Jolm- 
son.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  Mcllvaine. 

At  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  1897-1898,  B.  purpureus  was  common  in  oak 
and  chestnut  woods.  It  is  a  showy  species,  easily  distinguished  by  its 
velvety  cap.  In  young  specimens  the  stem  is  robust,  then  tapering 
upward.  When  old  the  cap  loses  its  rich  color  toward  the  margin, 
becoming  yellowish.  The  flesh  is  thick,  firm  and  of  excellent  flavor. 
It  undoubtedly  proved  itself  delicious  and  harmless  to  many  eating  it. 

B.  vermiculo'sus  Pk. — wormy.  Pileus  broadly  convex,  thick,  firm, 
dry,  glabrous,  or  very  minutely  tomentose,  brown,  yellowish-brown  or 
grayish-brown,  sometimes  tinged  with  red.  Flesh  white  or  whitish, 
quickly  changing  to  blue  where  wounded.  Tubes  plane  or  slightly 
convex,  nearly  free,  yellow,  their  mouths  small,  round,  brownish-orange, 
becoming  darker  or  blackish  with  age,  changing  promptly  to  blue 

456 


Polyporaceee 

where  wounded.     Stem   subequal,  firm,   even,  paler  than  the  pileus.  Boletus. 
Spores  ochraceous-brown,  10-1 2x4-5^. 

Var.  Spraguei.  (Boletus  Spraguei  Frost,  Bull.  Buff.  Soc.,  p.  IO2.) 
Stem  yellow  above,  minutely  velvety  below. 

PiletlS  3-5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  4-10  lines  thick. 

Woods.     New  York,  Peck;  Ohio,  Morgan;  New  England,  Frost. 

The  species  is  separated  from  B.  luridus  by  its  dry  pileus,  white 
flesh,  even  stem,  which  is  neither  reticulated  nor  dotted,  and  by  its 
smaller  spores.  I  can  not  distinguish  specimens  of  B.  Spraguei  received 
from  Mr.  Frost,  from  this  species.  The  name  is  scarcely  appropriate, 
for  specimens  are  not  always  infested  by  larvae.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species,  therefore,  have  not  tested  it.     CAUTION . 

B.  subvelu'tipes  Pk. — velvety-stem.  Pileus  convex,  firm,  subgla- 
brous,  yellowish-brown  or  reddish-brown.  Flesh  whitish,  both  it  and 
the  tubes  changing  to  blue  where  wounded.  Tubes  plane  or  slightly 
convex,  nearly  free,  yellowish,  their  mouths  small,  brownish-red.  Stem 
equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  firm,  even,  somewhat  pruinose  above, 
velvety  with  a  hairy  tomentum  toward  the  base,  yellow  at  the  top,  red- 
dish-brown below,  varied  with  red  and  yellow  within.  Spores  I5~i8x 

5-6/*. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  2-3  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Woods.      New  York,  Peck. 

This  species  resembles  the  preceding  one  in  general  appearance,  but 
it  is  very  distinct  by  its  much  longer  spores  and  by  the  velvety  hairiness 
toward  the  base  of  the  stem.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Boletus  subvelutipes  is  common  in  some  localities  in  Pennsylvania, 
especially  on  the  Springton  Hills,  in  chestnut  and  oak  woods.  I  have 
frequently  eaten  it  and  found  it  excellent.  Others  should  carefully 
test  it. 

B.  fir'mus  Frost — firm.  Pileus  convex,  very  firm,  slightly  tomen- 
tose,  gray,  often  pitted.  Flesh  yellowish  or  deep-yellow,  changing  to 
blue  where  wounded.  Tubes  adnate,  deeply  arcuate,  unequal,  yellow, 
their  mouths  tinged  with  red.  Stem  solid,  hard,  very  finely  reticulated, 
yellowish,  reddish  at  the  base.  Spores  13x3^. 

Pileus  2.5-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long. 

Rich  moist  wood.      New  England,  Frost. 

457 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus.  Apparently  a  well-marked  and  very  distinct  species.  According  to 
the  author,  it  is  readily  distinguished  by  its  tenacity  and  generally  dis- 
torted growth.  I  have  not  seen  it  nor  the  next.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
U.  S. 

Professor  Peck's  measurement  of  spores,  5oth  Report,  New  York  State 
Botanist,  is  13/x.  long,  6/*  wide. 

B.  magnis'porus  Frost.  PileilS  convex,  firm,  tomentose,  golden- 
yellow;  tubes  scarcely  adnate,  even,  greenish-yellow,  their  mouths  light 
cinnabar-red.  Stem  long,  slender,  yellow  above,  red  below.  Spores 
15-18x6^. 

Pileus  2.5  to  3.5  in.  broad. 

Woods  and  thickets.  New  England,  Frost;  Ohio,  Morgan.  Peck, 
Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

I  have  not  recognized  it.     CAUTION. 

B.  Fros'tii  Russell.  Pileus  convex,  polished,  shining,  blood-red,  the 
margin  thin.  Flesh  scarcely  changing  to  blue.  Tubes  nearly  free, 
greenish-yellow,  becoming  yellowish-brown  with  age,  their  mouths 
blood-red  or  cinnabar.  Stem  equal  or  tapering  upward,  distinctly 
reticulated,  firm,  blood-red.  Spores  12.5-15x5^. 

Pileus  3-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Grassy  places  under  trees  or  in  thin  woods.  New  England,  Frost; 
New  York,  Peck;  New  Jersey,  Ellis. 

This  is  a  highly  colored,  beautiful  Boletus,  but  it  is  not  common. 
The  stem  sometimes  fades  with  age,  and  both  it  and  the  tubes  are  apt  to 
lose  their  color  in  drying.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

I  have  not  recognized  it.     CAUTION. 

B.  Sullivan' tii  B.  and  M.  Pileus  hemispherical,  glabrous,  reddish- 
tawny  or  brown,  brownish  when  dry,  cracked  in  squares.  Tubes  free, 
convex,  medium  size,  angular,  longer  toward  the  margin,  their  mouths 
reddish.  Stem  solid,  violaceous  at  the  thickened  base,  red-reticulated 
at  the  apex,  expanded  into  the  pileus.  Spores  pallid  ochraceous, 
oblong-fusiform,  io-2O/u-  long. 

Pileus  3-4  in-  broad.     Stem  i.5~3  in-  lonS- 

Compact  soil.      Ohio.      Sttllivant. 

The  species  is  said  to  be  intermediate  between  Boletus  scaber  and  B. 

458 


Polyporaceee 

edulis.      From  the   former   it  differs  in   its   reticulated  stem,  from  the  Boletus, 
latter,  in  its  larger  tubes  and  from  both  in  its  stratum  of  tubes  being 
remote  from  the  stem.      I  have  not  seen  it.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

B.  Un'dei'WOOdii  Pk.  PileilS  rather  thin,  convex,  becoming  nearly 
plane,  slightly  velvety,  bright  brownish-red,  becoming  paler  with  age. 
Flesh  yellow,  changing  to  greenish-blue  where  wounded.  Tubes  ad- 
nate  or  slightly  decurrent,  greenish-yellow,  becoming  bluish  where 
wounded,  their  mouths  very  small,  round,  cinnabar  red,  becoming 
brownish-orange.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  somewhat 
irregular,  solid,  yellow  without  and  within.  Spores  io-i2x5/x,. 

PileuS  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Grassy  woods.     Auburn,  Alabama.     July.      Underwood. 

This  species  is  remarkable  for  its  adnate  or  subdecurrent  tubes,  in 
which  it  departs  from  the  character  of  the  tribe  to  which  it  belongs  ac- 
cording to  the  colors  of  the  tubes.  Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club, 
Vol.  24,  No.  3. 

B.  par'vilS  Pk. — parvus,  small.  PileuS  convex,  becoming  plane, 
often  slightly  umbonate,  subtomentose,  reddish.  Flesh  yellowish- white, 
slowly  changing  to  pinkish  where  wounded.  Tubes  nearly  plane,  ad- 
nate, their  mouths  rather  large,  angular,  at  first  bright  red,  becoming 
reddish-brown.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  thickened  below,  red.  Spores 
oblong,  I2.5X4/A.  PileuS  1—2  in.  broad.  Stem  1-2  in.  long,  2-3  lines 
thick. 

Grassy  woods.  Auburn,  Ala.  July.  Underwood.  Peck,  Bull. 
Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  24,  No.  3. 

VERSIPEL'LES — verto,  to  change ;  pellis,  a  skin. 

Tubes  at  first  white  or  whitish,  minute,  round,  equal,  forming  a  con- 
vex stratum  free  from  the  stem. 

Stem  black B.  alboater 

Stem  some  other  color I 

I .    Stem  yellow  at  the  base B.  chromapes 

I .    Stem  not  yellow  at  the  base „ 2 

2.    Margin  of  the  pileus  appendiculate B.  versipellis 

2 .    Margin  not  appendiculate 3 

459 


Polyporacese 

Boletus.  3.    Stem  scabrous  or  punctate-squamulose B.  scaber 

3 .    Stem  even 4 

4.    Pileus  white  or  whitish B.  albellus 

4.    Pileus  dark-brown B.  sordidus 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  alboa'ter  Schw. — black  and  white.  Pileus  convex,  subtomentose- 
velvety,  black.  Tubes  free,  their  mouths  rather  small,  white.  Stem 
black. 

Pileus  3  in.  broad.      Stem  2  in.  long. 

Moist  woods.  Frequent.  North  Carolina  and  Pennsylvania,  Schwei' 
nits, 

In  Epicrisis,  p.  424,  Fries  adds  to  the  description  here  quoted,  that 
the  stem  is  flocculose-veiled.  He  subjoins  to  this  as  a  subspecies, 
Boletus  floccosus  Schw.;  but  in  Syn.  N.  A.  Fung.,  Schweinitz  makes 
this  a  synonym  of  Boletus  floccopus.  The  species  does  not  appear  to 
have  been  recognized  by  recent  collectors,  which  seems  strange  unless 
there  is  some  error  concerning  it.  Can  it  be  a  black  variety  of  Boletus 
scaber?  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.      Gravelly  woods.     Mcllvaine. 

Cap  1/^—4  in.  across,  convex,  slightly  depressed,  margin  involute 
when  young,  black,  densely  velvety  in  youth  and  age — beautifully  so. 
Flesh  firm,  thick,  solid,  white  changing  to  grayish.  Tubes  white, 
stuffed,  sometimes  blackish  when  young,  excepting  a  grayish-white 
circle  around  stem,  becoming  yellowish-white  when  matured,  rotund, 
minute,  up  to  %  in.  long,  plane  when  young;  when  caps  expand  tubes 
draw  away  from  stem  leaving  a  deep  white  depression.  This  drawing 
away  apparently  elongates  many  dissepiments,  creating  a  gill-like  effect, 
decurrent  upon  stem.  Stem  2-3  in.  long,  swollen  toward  base  when 
young,  equal,  expanding  into  cap  and  tapering  to  a  point  at  base;  %  — 
I  in.  thick,  slightly  compressible,  hard,  sooty-black,  velvety  near  base, 
satiny  and  glossy  upward,  has  the  appearance  of  having  been  blackened 
with  burnt  cork,  usually  with  narrow  white  band  next  to  the  tubes,  no 
trace  of  veil,  composed  of  rather  hard  waved  fibers,  white  when  split, 
but  changing  to  sooty  black  toward  base,  lighter  upward. 

Smell  like  common  mushroom ;  taste  nutty. 

Gregarious  in  sandy-conglomerate  soil  in  mixed  woods,  among  moss 
and  leaves.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa. 

460 


Polyporaceee 

Differs  from  B.  alboater  Schw.,   in  having  densely  tomentose  cap,  Boletus, 
tubes  widely  separated  from  stem  in  age. 

A  young  specimen  of  apparently  same  species  in  same  patch  had 
very  short,  decurrent  tubes  (not  over  I  line)  which  were  sooty-black. 

Delicious. 

B.  SOr'didllS  Frost — sordid.  PileuS  convex,  subtomentose,  dirty 
dark-brown.  Flesh  white,  slightly  tinged  with  green.  Tubes  long, 
nearly  free,  at  first  white,  changing  to  bluish-green.  Stem  smaller  at 
the  top,  brownish,  marked  with  darker  streaks,  generally  greenish 
above.  Spores  10-13x5*1. 

PileuS  about  2  in.  broad. 

Recent  excavations  in  woods.     New  England,  Frost;  Ohio,  Morgan. 

The  Ohio  plant  occurs  in  damp  woods,  has  the  flesh  sometimes  tinged 
with  red  and  green,  the  tubes  white,  then  sordid,  but  changing  to  bluish- 
green  when  bruised,  their  mouths  large  and  angular,  the  stem  somewhat 
flexuous  and  striate  and  the  spores  fusiform  and  dirty-brown  Peck, 
Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  versipel'lis  Fr.  PileuS  convex,  dry,  at  first  compact  and  mi- 
nutely tomentose,  then  squamose  or  smooth,  reddish  or  orange-red,  the 
margin  appendiculate  with  the  inflexed  remains  of  the  membranous  veil. 
Flesh  white  or  grayish.  Tubes  at  first  concave  or  nearly  plane,  almost 
or  quite  free,  minute,  sordid-white,  their  mouths  gray.  Stem  equal 
or  tapering  upward,  solid,  wrinkled-scaly,  whitish  or  pallid.  Spores 
oblong-fusiform,  14—18x4—6/1,. 

PileuS  2-6  in.  broad.      Stem  3~5  in.  long,  4-10  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  open  places,  especially  in  sandy  soil.  North  Carolina, 
Curtis;  New  England,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck;  California,  H.  and  M. 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.     Mcllvaine. 

The  caps  are  good  cooked  in  any  way. 

B.  SCa'ber  Fr. — scaber,  rough.  (Plate  CXVIII,  fig.  4,  p.  436.) 
PileuS  convex,  glabrous,  viscid  when  moist,  at  length  wrinkled  or  lined. 
Tubes  free,  convex,  white,  then  sordid,  their  mouths  minute,  rotund. 
Stem  solid,  attenuated  above,  roughened  with  fibrous  scales.  Spores 
oblong-fusiform,  snuff-brown,  14—  18x4— 6//.. 

461 


Polyporacese 


Boletus.      Pileus  1-5  in.  broad.      Stem  3-5  in-  long.  3-8  lines  thick. 

Woods,    swamps    and    open    places. 
(Plate  CXXI.)  . 

Very    common  and   appearing  through 

summer  and  autumn. 

This   may  fairly  be  called  our  most 
common    and    variable    species.      It    is 
recorded  in   nearly   every   local   list    of 
fungi.      The    pileus    is    convex,   hemis- 
pherical or  even  subconical.      It  may  be 
glabrous,    minutely   tomentose,   subvel- 
vety  or  squamulose.      The  flesh  is  white 
or  whitish  and  sometimes  slightly  change- 
able where  wounded.    The  tubes  are  gen- 
erally rather  long  and  with  a  rounded  or 
convex  surface.      The  stem  is  distinctly 
scabrous  or  roughened  with  small  black- 
ish-brown or  reddish  dots  or  scales,  the 
ground    color    generally  being  whitish, 
grayish   or    pallid.       The    spores    have 
been  described  as  pale-brown  and  light- 
yellowish.       When    caught  in  a   mass    on    white    paper    they    appear 
to  me  to  approach  snuff-brown.     The   viscidity  of  the   pileus   is  not 
always  clearly  discernible.     Indeed  the  pileus  is  often  quite  as  dry  as  in 
B.  versipellis.     When  moistened  by  heavy  rains  it  sometimes  is  smooth 
and  clammy  to  the  touch  but  scarcely  viscid.      Several  varieties  have 
been  indicated  which  are  expressive  of  the  variations  in  the  color  of  the 
pileus. 

Var.  testa  ceus.     Pileus  brick-red. 
Var.  auranti'acus.     Pileus  orange  or  orange-red. 
These  appear  to  connect  this  species  and  B.  versipellis. 
Var.  aluta'ceus.     Pileus  yellowish-tan  color. 
Var.  fuligin'eus.     Pileus  fuliginous  or  cinereous-fuliginous. 
Var.  ftis'cus.     Pileus  brown  or  dark-brown. 
Var.  oliva'ceus.     Pileus  olivaceous. 

Var.  ni'veus.     Pileus  white,  when  old  sometimes  stained  with  blue  or 
livid-blue. 

To  these  might  be  added : 


BOLETUS  SCABER. 
One-half  natural  size. 


462 


Polyporaceae 

Var.    areoldtus.     Pileus  rimose-areolate.      (Plate  CXVIII,    fig.    4,  Boletus. 

P-  436.) 

Var.  mtitab'ilis.  Flesh  changing  slightly  to  brown  or  pinkish  where 
wounded. 

Var.  graci'lipes.  Stem  very  slender,  2-3  in.  long,  2-3  lines  thick. 
Pileus  thin,  translucent  when  held  toward  the  light. 

This  Boletus  is  classed  among  the  edible  species,  but  it  is  said  to  be 
less  agreeable  than  B.  edulis.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

The  numerous  varieties  with  their  peculiarities  here  given  by  Professor 
Peck  will  enable  the  finder  of  a  Boletus  with  a  distinctly  scabrous  stern 
— roughened  with  scales,  not  reticulate — to  select  its  name.  For  the 
mycophagist  it  is  enough  to  know  that  he  has  Boletus  scaber.  In  all  of 
its  varieties  it  is  edible.  The  stems,  often  the  tubes,  unless  young, 
should  be  discarded,  as  they  do  not  cook  in  the  same  time  as  the  caps. 
The  comparative  excellence  of  the  species  rests  with  the  devourer.  It 
deserves  a  high  place. 

B.  scaber,  var.  areolatus,  Plate  CXVIII,  fig.  4,  has  slight  flavor, 
but  is  of  pleasing  consistency. 

B.  -durius'culus  Schulz — somewhat  hard.  Pileus  2-5  in.  across, 
hemispherical,  minutely  velvety,  viscid  when  moist,  varying  in  color 
from  pale-brown,  through  dingy-chestnut,  to  umber-brown,  often  be- 
coming cracked  in  areas  when  dry,  interstices  paler.  Flesh  thick,  white 
or  tinged  yellow,  when  cut  becoming  reddish  copper-color.  Tubes  %  — 
%  in.  long,  shortened  round  the  stem  and  free,  openings  about  %mm. 
across,  often  compound,  irregularly  angular,  bright-yellow.  Stem  4-7 
in.  long,  fusiform,  thickest  part  1)2—2  in.  across,  situated  below  the 
middle,  yellowish,  rough  with  blackish  points,  which  are  sometimes  ar- 
ranged in  a  subreticulate  manner,  apex  sometimes  more  or  less  grooved, 
solid,  flesh  of  upper  part  becoming  coppery  like  the  pileus.  Spores 
elongate-cylindrical,  pale-umber,  i4-:6x5-6/x. 

In  woods.  Esculent  and  very  delicious.  Allied  to  Boletus  scaber, 
but  distinguished  by  the  bright-yellow  tubes  and  the  very  firm  flesh, 
which  turns  coppery-red  when  exposed  to  the  air ;  this  color  eventually 
changes  to  a  dingy  grayish-violet.  Also  allied  to  Boletus  porphyro- 
sporus.  Massee. 

463 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus.        Snow  Hill,  N.  J.     Gravelly  soil,  mixed  woods,  1892.     Mcllvaine. 
The  stem  and  tubes  should  be  removed.     The  caps  are  very  fine. 

B.  albel'lllS  Pk. — whitish.  PileilS  convex  or  gibbous,  soft,  glabrous, 
whitish.  Flesh  white,  unchangeable.  Tubes  convex,  free,  or  nearly 
so,  small,  subrotund,  whitish,  unchangeable.  Stem  glabrous  or  minutely 
branny,  substriate,  bulbous  or  thickened  at  the  base,  whitish.  Spores 
brownish-ochraceous,  1 4-16x5-6^. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Woods.     New  York,  Peck. 

This  is  closely  related  to  B.  scaber,  of  which  it  may  possibly  prove 
to  be  a  dwarf  form ;  but  it  is  easily  distinguished  by  its  smooth  or  only 
slightly  scurfy  and  subbulbous  stem.  It  presents  no  appearance  of  the 
colored  dot-like  squamules  which  are  a  constant  and  characteristic 
feature  of  that  species.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia.     Woodland  Cemetery,  Philadelphia.     Mcllvaine. 

Specimens  found  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  had  a  satiny,  glossy  stem, 
beautifully  furfuraceous,  and  stem  not  thickened  at  base.  Professor 
Peck,  to  whom  specimens  were  sent,  writes:  "Stem  is  a  little  more 
furfuraceous,  and  not  thickened  at  the  base,  otherwise  the  agreement  is 
very  good."  It  is  good  fried. 

B.  chro'mapes  Frost.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  slightly  and 
sometimes  fasciculately  tomentose,  pale-red.  Flesh  white,  unchangeable. 
Tubes  subadnate,  more  or  less  depressed  around  the  stem,  white  or 
whitish,  becoming  brown.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward, 
rough-spotted,  whitish  or  pallid,  chrome-yellow  at  the  base  both  without 
and  within,  sometimes  reddish  above.  Spores  oblong,  12-14x4-5. 

PileilS  2-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Woods.      New  England,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck. 

The  yellow  base  of  the  stem  appears  to  be  a  peculiar  and  constant 
character  by  which  the  species  may  easily  be  recognized.  It  imitates 
Boletus  piperatus  in  this  respect,  but  in  everything  els.e  it  is  very  dis- 
tinct from  that  plant.  Sometimes  the  stem'  is  so  badly  infested  by 
larvae  that  it  is  difficult  to  procure  a  sound  specimen.  The  spores  have 
a  subferruginous  color  with  a  slight  incarnate  tint,  but  the  rough-dotted 
stem  indicates  a  relationship  with  B.  scaber.  Through  this  species,  Bo- 
letus conicus  and  B.  gracilis,  the  Versipelles  and  the  Hyporhodii  ap- 

464 


Polyporaceas 

pear  to  run  together.      In  the  Catalogue  of  Plants  of  Amherst  the  spe-  Boletus, 
cific  name  is   "  chromapus."      It  would  be  more  in  accordance  with 
present  custom  to  write  it  "chromopus."     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

A  dozen  or  more  specimens  referable  to  this  species  were  found  by 
me  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  August,  1897,  in  mixed  woods.  The  caps  were 
eaten  and  were  excellent. 

B.  neblllo'sus  Pk.  PileilS  convex,  dry,  snuff-brown  or  smoky-brown. 
Flesh  white,  unchangeable.  Tubes  convex,  depressed  around  the  stem, 
pallid  or  brownish,  becoming  purplish-brown  where  wounded,  the 
mouths  small,  rotund.  Stem  enlarged  toward  the  base,  solid,  scurfy, 
colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  12.5-15x6;*. 

PileilS  2-4  in=  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Shaded  banks  by  road-side.      Raybrook.     August. 

No  young  or  immature  specimens  were  seen,  and  the  description  is 
to  that  extent  incomplete.  Peck,  5ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

By  a  painting  made  by  the  writer  September,  1885,  Professor  Peck 
identified  the  species  of  which  it  is  a  picture  as  B.  nebulosus  Pk.  The 
following  notes  accompany  it,  which  have  been  verified  many  times 
since  their  writing : 

Oak  woods.  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  September.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa., 
September. 

Pileus  chestnut-brown  and  darker,  covered  with  small,  low,  black 
spots;  convex,  often  depressed  in  center,  sharp  on  margin.  Flesh 
white,  thick,  solid,  unchangeable.  Tubes  very  small,  and  light  pink- 
ish-brown. When  touched  they  change  to  a  deeper  hue.  Stem  same 
color  as  pileus,  but  a  shade  lighter,  solid,  scurfy,  having  a  striate  ap- 
pearance, enlarging  toward  base. 

Taste  sweet  and  pleasant.     Cooked  it  is  juicy,  meaty  and  very  fine. 

B.  ful'vus  Pk. — brownish-yellow.  (Plate  CXVI,  fig.  3,  p.  420.) 
Pileus  thick,  convex  or  subcampanulate,  dry,  glabrous,  rimose-areolate, 
tawny-yellow,  the  extreme  margin  dark-brown.  Flesh  spongy,  tough, 
white,  slowly  assuming  a  reddish  tint  upon  exposure  to  the  air.  Tubes 
rather  long,  ventricose,  depressed  around  the  stem  and  free  or  nearly 
so,  greenish-yellow,  the  mouths  small,  tawny-yellow.  Stem  rather  long, 
often  narrowed  and  striate  at  the  top,  dotted  with  brownish-orange  gran- 

30  465 


Polyporaceee 

Boletus,  ules  or  points,  radicating,  tough,  stuffed  with  greenish-yellow  fiDe  v 
colored  like  the  pileus.      Spores  unknown. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.     Stem  4-5  in.  long,  4-8  lines  thick. 

Cespitose  on  decaying  stumps.  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.  August. 
Mcllvaine, 

Mr.  Mcllvaine  says  that  there  were  between  twenty  and  thirty  speci- 
mens on  and  about  an  old  stump  and  that  they  were  as  attractive  to  the 
eye  as  a  cluster  of  Clitocybe  illudens.  Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol. 
27,  January,  1900. 

Excellent  in  flavor,  rather  spongy,  but  fine. 

HYPORHO'DII.     Gr. — somewhat  rose-colored. 

Tubes  adnate  to  the  stem,  whitish,  then  white-incarnate  from  the 
rosy  spores. 

In  this  tribe  the  tubes  are  at  first  whitish,  but  with  the  development 
of  the  spores  they  usually  assume  a  pinkish  or  flesh-colored  hue. 
Wounds  of  the  tubes  in  some  species  cause  a  change  in  color  but  not  to 
blue,  nor  are  the  tube  mouths  differently  colored  as  in  the  Luridi.  The 
stem  in  some  is  more  or  less  reticulated  but  this  is  scarcely  a  constant 
or  reliable  character  in  these  species.  Typically  the  spores  are  rosy  or 
flesh-colored,  but  I  have  admitted  species  in  which  they  incline  to  rust- 
colored,  giving  more  weight  to  the  color  of  the  tubes  than  to  that  of 
the  spores. 

Pileus  black  or  blackish .B.  nigrellus 

Pileus  some  other  color , ....  „  .........  i 

I .    Stem  more  than  four  lines  thick , 2 

I.    Stem  slender,  generally  less  than  four  lines  thick ,  .B.  gracilis 

2 .    Stem  not  reticulated 3 

2 .    Stem  more  or  less  reticulated. . . . . ,  4 

3 .    Tubes  angular,  flesh-colored B.  conicus 

3.    Tubes  round,  white .B.  alutarius 

4.    Taste  mild B.  indecisus 

4.    Taste  bitter B.  felleus 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  COIUCUS   Rav. — conical.     Pileus  convex   or  sttbconical,  clothed 
with  bundled  appressed  yellowish  flocci.     Flesh  white,  unchangeable, 

466 


Folyporaceae 

tasteless.     Tubes  ventricose,  flesh-colored,  becoming  darker  from  the  Boletus, 
spores,  the  mouths  small,  angular,  slightly  fringed.     Stem  glabrous, 
tapering  upward,  pale-yellow.     Spores  fusiform,  subferruginous. 

Pileus  1-2  in.  broad.     Stem  2  in.  long,  6  lines  thick. 

Damp  pine  woods.     South  Carolina,  Ravenel, 

The  species  is  compared  to  Boletus  scaber,  from  which  it  differs  in  its 
smaller  tubes  and  smooth  stem,  and  from  both  this  and  B.  albellus  it 
differs  in  the  color  of  the  tubes  and  in  the  yellowish  flocci  of  the  pileus. 
I  have  seen  no  specimens,  but  on  account  of  the  color  of  the  tubes  I 
have  placed  the  species  with  the  Hyporhodii.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.S. 

B.  gracilis  Pk.— slender.  (Plate  CXIV,  fig.  i,  p.  414.)  Pileus 
convex,  glabrous  or  minutely  tomentose,  rarely  squamulose,  ochraceous- 
brown,  tawny-brown  or  reddish-brown.  Flesh  white.  Tubes  plane  or 
convex,  depressed  around  the  stem,  nearly  free,  whitish,  becoming  pale 
flesh-colored,  their  mouths  subrotund.  Stem  long,  slender,  equal  or 
slightly  tapering  upward,  pruinose  or  minutely  branny,  even  or  marked 
by  slender  elevated  anastomosing  lines  which  form  long  narrow  reticu- 
lations. Spores  subferruginous,  12.5-17.5x5-6/4. 

Var.  Ice'vipes.      Stem  even. 

Pileus  1-2  in=  broad.      Stem  3-5  in.  long,  2-4  lines  thick. 

Woods.     New  York,  Peck;  New  England,  Frost;  Ohio,  Morgan. 

The  slender  habit  separates  this  species  from  all  the  others  here  in- 
cluded in  this  tribe.  Its  spores  are  not  a  clear  incarnate  in  color,  but 
incline  to  dull-ferruginous,  and  by  this  character  this  and  the  preceding 
species  connect  this  tribe  with  Versipelles.  In  color  B.  gracilis  resem- 
bles some  forms  of  B.  felleus,  but  in  size,  habit  and  color  of  spores  it 
is  easily  distinct.  The  tomentum  of  the  pileus  sometimes  breaks  into 
tufts  or  squamules.  This  is  Boletus  vinaceus,  Frost  MS.  Peck,  Boleti 
of  the  U.  S. 

B.  gracilis,  var.  laevipes,  was  found  by  the  writer  in  Woodland  Ceme- 
tery, West  Philadelphia,  August,  1897,  and  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  Sep- 
tember, 1898.  The  stem  of  some  specimens  spreads  at  the  top.  The 
pileus  is  often  cracked  on  the  margin,  and  the  upturning  of  the  margin 
often  exposes  the  tubes.  Painting,  as  of  this  species,  identified  by 
Professor  Peck. 

The  taste  is  at  first  sweet,  then  bitter.  The  bitterness  is  lost  in  cook- 
ing. Edible,  good. 

467 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus.       B.  indeci'sus  Pk.— undecided.     (Plate  CXXII,  fig.  i,  p.  468.)     Pi- 

leus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  dry,  slightly  tomentose,  ochraceous-brown, 
often  wavy  or  irregular  on  the  margin.  Flesh  white,  unchangeable; 
taste  mild.  Tubes  nearly  plane  or  convex,  adnate,  grayish  becoming 
tinged  with  flesh  color  when  mature,  changing  to  brownish  where 
wounded,  their  mouths  small,  subrotund.  Stem  minutely  f  urf  uraceous, 
straight,  or  flexuous,  reticulated  above,  pallid  without  and  within. 
Spores  oblong,  brownish  flesh  color,  12.5— I5x4/x. 

Pileus  3-4  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  4-6  lines  thick. 

Thin  oak  wt>ods.      New  York,  Peck. 

The  mild  taste  and  darker  colored  spores  will  separate  this  Boletus 
from  any  form  of  B.  felleus.  Its  stem  reticulated  above  distinguishes  it 
from  B.  alutarius.  It  resembles  B.  modestus  in  some  respects,  but  its 
tubes  are  not  at  all  yellow.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Kentucky,  Lloyd,  Rep.  4. 

Woodland  Cemetery,  Philadelphia,  July,  1897,  Mcllvaine;  Trenton, 
N.  J.,  August,  1897,  Sterling.  In  open  mixed  woods. 

Boletus  indecisus  so  closely  resembles  B.  felleus  in  some  of  its  forms 
that  until  the  color  of  the  spores  is  ascertained,  the  sweet  taste,  without 
trace  of  bitter,  is  the  only  thing  that  will  enable  the  finder  to  discrimi- 
nate between  them.  Young  B.  felleus  are  at  first  pleasant  to  the  taste 
and  do  not,  at  once,  develop  their  intense  bitter  in  the  mouth.  They 
m*ay  readily  be  taken  for  B.  indecisus.  If,  by  mistake,  a  single  B.  fel- 
leus is  cooked  with  mild  species,  the  dish  will  be  spoiled.  Specimens  be- 
lieved to  be  B.  indecisus  should  be  tested.  A  minute  will  perfectly  sat- 
isfy anyone. 

The  B.  indecisus  is  delicious. 

B.  aluta'rius  Fr. — aluta,  tanned  leather.  Pileus  convex,  then  nearly 
plane,  soft,  velvety,  becoming  glabrous,  brownish  tan  color.  Flesh  al- 
most unchangeable,  taste  mild,  watery.  Tubes  depressed  around  the 
stem,  plane,  short,  round,  white,  becoming  brownish  where  wounded. 
8tem  solid,  bulbous,  nearly  even,  small,  irregular  prominences  at  the 
top.  Spores  1 4x4/4. 

Pileus  3-4  in-  broad.      Stem  4-5  in.  long. 

Grassy  woods.      Minnesota,  Johnson.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  1882-1885.     Margins  of  woods.     Chelten- 

468 


PLATE  CXXII. 


*j     «4 

'Q        o 


> 

go 


Polyporacese 

ham,  Pa.     Margins  of  woods,  1888-1889,  grassy  woods  and  margins.  Boletus. 
Mcllvaine. 

Common  in  West  Virginia  mountains  where  it  grows  with  B.  felleus, 
from  which  it  is  impossible  to  distinguish  it  without  tasting.  It  is  de- 
licious when  cooked.  But  I  long  ago  ceased  collecting  for  the  table 
any  Boletus  questionable  for  B.  felleus.  I  have  been  deceived  so  many 
times — taken  the  bitter  for  the  sweet — that,  preferring  the  sweet,  I  take 
no  chances  for  the  bitter. 

B.  felleus  Bull.—/*/,  gall.  Bitter.  (Plate  CXXII,  fig.  2,  3,  4, 
p.  468.)  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  firm,  becoming  soft,  glabrous, 
even,  variable  in  color,  pale-yellowish,  grayish-brown,  yellowish-brown, 
reddish-brown  or  chestnut.  Flesh  white,  often  changing  to  flesh  color 
where  wounded,  taste  bitter.  Tubes  adnate,  long,  convex,  depressed 
around  the  stem,  their  mouths  angular,  white,  becoming  tinged  with 
flesh-color.  Stem  variable,  equal  or  tapering  upward,  short  or  long, 
sometimes  bulbous  or  enlarged  at  the  base,  subglabrous,  generally 
reticulated  above,  colored  like  or  a  little  paler  than  the  pileus.  Spores 
oblong-fusiform,  flesh-colored,  12.5—17.5x4—5/4. 

Var.  obe'sus.  Pileus  large.  Stem  thick,  coarsely  and  distinctly 
reticulated  nearly  or  quite  to  the  base. 

Pileus  3-8  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  6-12  lines  thick. 

The  variety  is  large  and  solitary  in  its  mode  of  growth.  It  is  remark- 
able for  the  coarse  reticulations  of  the  stem  which  extend  nearly  or  quite 
to  the  base.  After  heavy  rains  the  pileus  is  viscid.  It  may  prove  to 
be  a  distinct  species. 

The  flesh  in  the  American  plant  does  not  always  assume  incarnate 
hues  where  wounded.  The  color  of  the  fresh  tubes  often  changes  to  a 
deeper  tint  where  wounded.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina,  Mcllvaine; 
Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller. 

A  very  common  species  in  woods  and  on  thin  margins,  on  open 
grassy  places,  and  about  decayed  stumps.  I  saw  hundreds  of  plants, 
var.  obesus,  some  a  foot  in  diameter,  in  a  wheat  stubble  near  oak 
woods. 

One  of  the  most  attractive  of  Boleti.  Its  cap  resembles  a  handsomely 
browned  cake.  Its  solidity  is  inviting;  its  flesh,  generous  in  quantity, 
excites  appetite.  Until  one  experiences  its  intense  lasting  bitter,  one 

469 


Polyporaceae 


Boletus,  clings  to  it  with  hope.  Even  after  tasting,  it  is  thrown  away  with 
regret.  It  is  not  poisonous,  but  a  small  piece  of  one  will  embitter  a 
whole  dish.  Mcllvaine,  Bull.  Phila.  Myc.  Center.  July, 


B.  nigrel'lus  Pk. — blackish.  PileilS  broadly  convex  or  nearly  plane, 
dry,  subglabrous,  blackish.  Flesh  soft,  white,  unchangeable.  Tubes 
plane  or  convex,  adnate,  sometimes  slightly  depressed  around  the  stem, 
their  mouths  small,  subrotund,  whitish  becoming  flesh-colored,  slowly 
changing  to  brown  or  blackish  where  wounded.  Stem  equal,  shert, 
even,  colored  like  or  a  little  paler  than  the  pileus.  Spores  dull  flesh- 
colored,  IO— I2X5-6/A. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.     Stem  1.5-2.5  in.  long,  6-12  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  copses.      New  York,  Peck. 

The  blackish  color  of  the  pileus  and  stem  distinguishes  this  species. 
From  Boletus  alboater  Schw.,  the  adnate,  flesh-colored  tubes  will  sepa- 
rate it.  The  surface  of  the  pileus  sometimes  becomes  cracked  in  areas, 
Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  August,  1898.     Mcllvaine. 

Another  distinguishing  mark  from  B.  alboater  is  the  velvety  pileus  of 
the  latter.  B.  nigrellus  is  mild  in  taste  and  smell  and  an  excellent 
species  for  the  table. 

B.  eccen'triaus  Pk. — eccentric.  (Plate  CXVI,  fig.  I,  p.  420.) 
Pileus  thick,  firm,  convex,  irregular,  glabrous,  more  or  less  lobed  or 
wavy  on  the  involute  margin,  gray  or  yellowish-gray.  Flesh  white, 
close-grained,  elastic,  unchangeable,  taste  and  odor  farinaceous.  Tubes 
convex,  depressed  around  the  stem,  not  reaching  the  margin  of  the  pi- 
leus, somewhat  uneven  and  pitted  on  the  surface,  yellowish-brown,  the 
mouths  subangular,  at  first  concolorous,  becoming  reddish  or  reddish- 
purple.  Stem  eccentric,  tapering  downward,  solid,  uneven  with  short 
irregular  shallow  grooves  or  obscure  reticulations,  tinged  with  red  at  the 
top,  grayish  below,  tinged  with  red  or  purple  within  at  the  base. 

Pileus  5-10  cm.  broad.    Stem  4-5  cm,  long,  3-4  cm.  thick  at  the  top. 

Sandy  soil  in  grassy  places  in  woods.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  August  and 
September. 

The  species  is  well  marked  by  its  eccentric  stem,  thick  irregular  pileus 
and  the  reddish  or  reddish-purple  mouths  of  the  mature  tubes.  Mr. 

470 


Polyporacese 

Mcllvaine  remarks  that  when  it   is  cooked  it   is  delicate  and  savory.  Boletus. 
Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  No.  27. 

In  commenting  upon  this  new  species  to  the  writer,  Professor  Peck 
says:  "I  suspect  that  the  spores  of  this  (B.  eccentricus)  are  pinkish 
or  rosy.  If  so,  it  belongs  here  (in  Hyporhodii).  If  not,  it  may  have 
to  go  in  the  Luridi,  or  possibly  may  be  made  the  type  of  a  new  tribe. 

CARIO'SI — caries,  rottenness. 

Stem  never  reticulated,  stuffed  with  a  spongy  pith,  at  length  com- 
monly excavated.  Tubes  at  first  white,  then  often  yellowish,  their 
mouths  minute,  round. 

Fries  adds  to  these  characters,  "spores  white."  But  in  our  species 
the  spores  are  pale-yellow  when  shed  in  a  mass  on  white  paper.  They 
are  more  elliptical  in  outline  than  the  spores  of  most  Boleti.  The 
character  of  the  stem  is  peculiar  and  easily  distinguishes  the  tribe.  The 
exterior  is  firm,  the  interior  soft  and  spongy,  becoming  irregularly 
hollow  or  cavernous  in  the  typical  species. 

Flesh  unchangeable I 

Flesh  quickly  changing  to  blue  where  wounded B.  cyanescens 

I .  Pileus  minutely  velvety-tomentose B.  castaneus 

i .  Pileus  granulated B.  Murrayi 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  cyanes'cens  Bull. — cyaneus,  deep-blue.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly 
plane,  opaque,  floccose-scaly  or  covered  with  an  appressed  tomentum, 
pale-buff,  grayish-yellow,  yellowish  or  somewhat  brown.  Flesh  rigid, 
white,  quickly  changing  to  blue  where  wounded.  Tubes  free,  white, 
becoming  yellowish,  the  mouths  minute,  round,  changing  color  like  the 
flesh.  Stem  ventricose,  hoary  with  fine  hairs,  stuffed,  becoming  cav- 
ernous, contracted  and  even  at  the  top,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores 
subelliptical,  10-12.5x6-7.5^. 

Pileus  2-5  in.  broad.      Stem  2-4  in.  long,  8-18  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  open  places.  New  York,  Peck;  New  England,  Frost, 
Bennett;  Minnesota,  Johnson;  Wisconsin,  Bundy.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
U.  S. 

High  ground  in  woods.  Solitary.  West  Virginia  mountains,  Spring- 
ton  Hills,  Pa.,  Kingsessing,  Philadelphia,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  Mcllvaine. 

471 


Polyporaceee 

Boletus.  Boletus  cyanescens  is  a  sparse  grower.  The  quality  of  the  juice  va- 
ries. That  of  young  specimens  stains  the  fingers  blue,  that  of  old,  brown. 
The  caps  are  firm  and  make  an  excellent  dish  cooked  in  any  way. 

B.  casta'neus  Bull. — chestnut.  (Plate  CXIV,  fig.  3,  p.  414. )  Pileus 
convex,  nearly  plane  or  depressed,  firm,  even,  dry,  minutely  velvcty- 
tomentose,  cinnamon  or  reddish-brown.  Flesh  white,  unchangeable 
Tubes  free,  short,  small,  white  becoming  yellow.  Stem  equal  or 
tapering  upward,  even,  stuffed  or  hollow,  clothed  and  colored  like  the 
pileus.  Spores  10-12.5x6-7.5/4. 

Pileus  1.5-3  m-  broad.     Stem  1-2.5  m-  l°ng,  3-5  lmes  thick. 

Woods  and  open  places.  Rather  common  and  wide  spread.  Peck, 
Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

Boletus  castaneus  is  one  of  the  neatest  looking  of  fungi.  The  pre- 
vailing color  is  cinnamon,  that  of  the  tubes  white  or  very  light  yellow,  ' 
spotted  with  brown  wherever  insects  have  touched  them.  The  pore 
surface  of  mature  specimens  is  usually  irregular.  Whoever  has  seen 
the  stalagmites  of  Luray  Cave  will  recognize  their  color  on  the  stems  of 
B.  castaneus.  These  are  brittle,  snapping  like  pipe  stems,  with  a  small 
tube  in  center. 

The  fungus  is  common  from  June  until  September.  It  is  gregarious, 
occasionally  three  or  four  individuals  form  a  group.  Either  raw  or 
cooked  the  caps  are  edible  and  will  become  favorites. 

B.  Mur'rayi  B.  and  C.  Pileus  hemispherical,  granulated,  vivid  red. 
Flesh  yellow.  Tubes  decurrent,  about  I  line  deep,  yellow.  Stem 
clavate,  even,  pale-yellow.  Spores  pale-yellow. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  broad,  nearly  1.5  thick. 

New  England,  Murray. 

On  account  of  the  color  of  the  spores  this  species  has  been  placed 
with  the  Cariosi.  The  description  does  not  mention  the  character  of 
the  interior  of  the  stem,  and  the  decurrent  tubes  depart  from  the  char- 
acter of  the  typical  species  so  that  its  true  position  is  uncertain.  The 
species  seems  well  marked  by  the  character  of  the  pileus.  Peck,  Boleti 
of  the  U.  S. 

B.  isabelli'nus  Pk.  Pileus  convex,  firm,  minutely  tomentose, 
whitish,  becoming  darker  and  smoother  with  age.  Flesh  isabelline. 

472 


Polyporacese 

Tubes  adnate,  minute,  sometimes  larger  near  the  stem,  nearly  round,  Boletus, 
whitish.      Stem    nearly  equal,   subglabrous,   hollow,   whitish.     Spores 
subelliptical,  7.5-9x5-6^.     Pileus  2-3  in.  broad.      Stem  1-2  in.  long, 
4-6  lines  thick. 

Woods.      Ocean  Springs,  Miss.     June.      Underwood. 

The  species  belongs  to  the  Cariosi.  Peck,  in  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club, 
VoL  24,  No.  3. 

APPENDIX  (Boletus). 

The  descriptions  of  the  following  species  are  scarcely  sufficient  to 
permit  of  the  satisfactory  reference  of  the  species  to  their  places  in  the 
tribes.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  these  plants  may  again  be  found  and 
their  proper  relations  be  ascertained. 

B.  Ana'nas  Curt.  Pileus  pulvinate,  thickly  and  rigidly  floccose-ver- 
rucose,  yellow,  flocci  white  above,  flesh-colored  beneath,  the  margin 
thin,  membranous,  lacerated;  hymenium  plane,  depressed  around  the 
stem,  yellow  or  tawny-yellow,  becoming  greenish  where  wounded,  their 
mouths  medium  size,  obtusely  angular.  Stem  even,  solid,  somewhat 
enlarged  at  the  base,  white.  Spores  ferruginous. 

Pileus  3-4  in.  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  6-9  lines  thick. 

Under  prostrate  trunks  of  pine  trees. 

South  Carolina,  Ravenel;  North  Carolina,  Curtis. 

This  is  said  to  approach  S.  strobilaceus  in  habitat,  but  to  be  other- 
wise very  different.  It  is  placed  among  the  Subtomentosi  in  Sylloge, 
but  from  these  it  recedes  by  its  floccose  wart-like  scales.  Peck,  Boleti 
of  the  U.  S. 

B.  radico'sus  Bundy.  Pileus  thin,  wide,  recurved,  yellow  tinged 
with  brown,  the  cuticle  easily  removed.  Flesh  pale-yellowish  tinged 
with  pink,  not  changing  color  when  bruised.  Tubes  decurrent,  large, 
uneven-mouthed,  compound,  angular,  tinged  with  brown.  Stem  flexu- 
ous,  yellow  above,  whitish  below,  rough  with  dark  appressed  scales, 
fibrous-rooted. 

Pileus  4  in-  broad.      Stem  3-4  in.  long,  5  lines  thick. 

Wisconsin,  Bimdy. 

The  pileus  is  not  described  as  viscid,  but  in  other  respects  the  spe- 

473 


Polyporaceae 

Boletus,  cies  appears  to  belong  to  the  Viscipelles  and   to  be  related  to  Boletus 
collinitus.     Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

B.  Po'cono  Schw.  Pileus  pulvinate,  cervine  (dun  color),  minutely 
covered  with  bundles  of  tomentum  on  the  closely-inflexed  margin. 
Tubes  rather  large,  somewhat  prominently  angular,  concolorous.  Stem 
subattenuated,  thickened  toward  the  base,  pallid-striate  at  the  apex, 
elsewhere  spadiceous,  subfurfuraceous. 

Pileus  i  in.  broad.     Stem  2-3  in.  long. 

Beech  woods.     Pennsylvania,  Schweinitz. 


474 


Polyporaceee 


STKOBILO'MYCES  Berk. 
Gr. — a  pine  cone ;  a  fungus. 


(Plate  CXXIV.) 


Strobilomyces 


STROBILOMYCES  STROBILACEUS. 
Two-thirds  natural  size. 


,  S.  strobilaceus 
, .  .S.  floccopus 


Hymenophore  even.  Tubes  not 
easily  separable  from  it,  large, 
equal.  Pileus  and  stem  distinctly 
rough-scaled,  the  flesh  tough.  Syl. 
Fung.,  Vol.  VI,  p.  49. 

I  have  given  Professor  Saccardo's 
emended  diagnosis  of  this  genus, 
because  it  expresses  what  appears 
to  me  to  be  the  most  important 
generic  character,  that  is,  tubes  not 
easily  separable  from  the  hymeno- 
phore.  By  this  character  and  by 
the  tough  substance  the  transition 
between  Boletus  and  Polyporus  is 
made. 

Tubes  nearly  equal  in  length 

Tubes  shortened  around  the  stem. . . 

Peck,  Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

S.  strobila'ceus  Berk.  Gr.— cone-like.  (Plate  CXXIV.)  Pileus 
hemispherical  or  convex,  dry,  covered  with  thick  floccose  projecting 
blackish  or  blackish-brown  scales,  the  margin  somewhat  appendiculate 
with  scales  and  fragments  of  the  veil.  Flesh  whitish,  changing  to 
reddish  and  then  to  blackish  where  wounded.  Tubes  adnate,  whitish, 
becoming  brown  or  blackish  with  age;  their  mouths  large,  angular, 
changing  color  like  the  flesh.  Stem  equal  or  tapering  upward,  sulcate 
at  the  top,  floccose-tomentose,  colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  sub- 
globose,  rough,  blackish-brown,  10-12.5^. 

Pileus  2-4  in.  broad.  Stem  3-5  in.  long,  4-10  lines  thick.  Peck, 
Boleti  of  the  U.  S. 

West  Virginia  mountains,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine;  Indiana,  H.  I. 
Miller. 

Common  in  woods  and  their  margins,  under  the  overhanging  sods  of 
washes  and  road-cuts.  Often  in  troops,  occasionally  cespitose.  The 

475 


Folyporacese 

Strobilomyces.  rough  fuzzy  cap  reminds  of  short  fur  that  has  been  wet  and  dried.  Its 
appearance  is  unique  among  Boleti.  Before  cooking  the  stem  and  tubes 
should  be  removed,  unless  the  latter  are  very  firm  and  fresh.  The 
squamules  must  be  cut  away  or  the  dish  will  be  rough. 

With  many  this  Boletus  is  a  prime  favorite.  It  has  a  strong  woody 
taste,  sometimes  musky,  sometimes  faintly  of  anisette.  It  cooks  well 
by  any  method. 

S.  floc'copus  Vahl. — floccose-stemmed.  Pileus  convex,  soft,  cov- 
ered with  areas  of  bunched  rough,  scaly  tomentum,  cinereous,  at 
length  blackish,  appendiculate  with  the  silky,  thick  annular  veil.  Tubes 
shortened  behind,  their  mouths  large,  whitish-gray.  Stem  stout,  pitted 
above,  umber-tomentose  below.  Spores  perfectly  globose,  brown,  9/1 
broad. 

PileilS  4-5  in.  broad.      Stem  4-5  in.  long,  I  in.  thick. 

Woods.  North  Carolina  and  Pennsylvania,  Schweinitz;  Ohio,  Mor- 
gan; New  York,  Peck. 

According  to  Fries  this  is  a  larger  and  firmer  species  than  S.  stro- 
bilaceus  but  manifestly  related  to  it.  The  New  York  specimens  which 
I  have  referred  to  it  differ  from  S.  strobilaceus  in  no  respect,  except  in 
the  tubes  being  depressed  around  the  stem.  Unless  there  are  other 
differences  in  the  European  plant,  it  scarcely  seems  to  me  to  be  worthy 
of  specific  distinction.  Boletus  floccopus,  Rost.  tab.  40,  is  referred  to 
Boletus  scaber,  as  is  B.  holopus,  Rost.  tab.  48.  Peck,  Boleti  of  the 
U.  S. 

I  agree  with  Professor  Peck  that  this  species  is  not  worthy  of  specific 
distinction.  During  1898  I  found  a  bunch  containing  eight  individuals 
which  varied  through  all  botanic  characteristics  given  to  both  species. 
The  largest  individual  was  4)^  in.  across  cap,  the  smallest  i/£  in.  On 
some  the  tubes  were  adnate,  on  others  shortened  behind.  There  was 
no  difference  in  flavor  excepting  that  due  to  age. 


476 


PLATE  CXXV. 


Polyporaceae 

FISTULI'NA  Bull. 
Fistula,  a  pipe. 

Hymenium  formed  on  the  under  surface  of  a  fleshy  hymenophore,  at  Fistulina. 
first  warted,  the  warts  developing  into  cylindrical  tubes  that  remain  dis- 
tinct and  free  from  each  other,  producing  in  their  interior  cellular  pro- 
cesses each  bearing  four  spores.    Conidia  are  produced  in  cavities  of  the 
old  hymenophore. 

With  the  outward  appearance  of  a  Polyporus,  but  separated  by  the 
tubes  being  free  from  each  other. 

A  small  genus  of  which  F.  hepatica  is  the  principal  species.  This  is 
known  and  valued  in  Europe  and  wherever  found  in  this  country.  Un- 
fortunately it  is  rare  or  unknown  in  many  localities.  A  new  species  has 
recently  been  found  in  the  United  States — Fistulina  firma,  by  Mrs.  A. 
M.  Hadley,  Manchester,  N.  H. — a  white-flesh  species  whose  edibility 
is  not  reported.  Torrey  Bull.,  1899.  F-  pallida  B.  and  Rav.  ;  F. 
radicata,  Schw. ;  F.  spathulata  B.  and  C.,  are  reported  from  Alabama. 
Edible  qualities  not  stated.  The  writer  has  not  seen  them  or  he  surely 
would  have  tested  them.  The  spread  and  cultivation  of  F.  hepatica  is 
possible.  Experiments  in  this  line  are  desirable. 

F.  hepat'ica(Huds.)Fr.  Gr. — resembling  the  liver.  (Plate  CXXV, 
fig.  i,  p.  476.)  Juicy-fleshy,  not  rooting.  PileilS  entire,  blood-red. 
Flesh  thick,  soft,  viscid  above,  transversed  with  tenacious  fibers,  hence 
variegated-red.  Tubes  at  first  pallid. 

Changeable  in  form,  sessile  or  extended  into  a  lateral  stem.     Fries. 

Spores  salmon-color,  nearly  round  with  an  oblique  apiculus,  3/4  W. 
G.S.;  broadly  elliptical,  5-6x3-4/4;  conidia,  6-10x5/1,  Massee;  yellow- 
ish, elliptical,  5-6. 5/u.  long  Peck. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  August  to  frost.  Mcll- 
vaine. 

Small  specimens  may  be  confounded  with  F.  pallida,  which  follows. 

Fistulina  hepatica  is  celebrated  in  most  countries,  and  known  usually 
as  the  Beefsteak  fungus.  It  grows  from  decaying  crevices  in  oak,  chest- 
nut and  other  trees  and  stumps,  but  those  named  are  its  favorites.  July, 
August,  September  are  its  months,  and  after  rains.  In  some  localities' 
and  years  it  is  rare.  At  Mt.  Gretna,  in  1898,  a  hundred  pounds  of  it 
could  be  gathered  almost  any  day. 

477 


Polyporacese 

Fistulina.  August,  1899,  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  I  found  several  specimens  in  vi- 
cinity which,  though  evidently  F.  hepatica,  were  remarkable  for  their 
structure — 2-4  in.  across,  irregularly  cylindrical,  with  spore  surface 
covering  the  entire  fungus.  Stem  curt,  eccentric,  almost  central. 
Specimens  were  sent  Professor  Peck,  who  writes: 

"The  sample  of  Fistulina  which  you  send  is  a  singular  thing.  Sac- 
cardo  has  noted  a  somewhat  similar  form  but  without  pore  surface. 
Yours  has  pore  surface,  but  I  do  not  find  spores  developed  in  it.  I  am 
inclined  to  think  it  a  monstrosity,  as  you  do,  but  as  you  say  you  have 
found  several  of  them  I  think  it  would  be  well  to  put  it  on  record  and  I 
will  enter  it  in  my  record  as  Fistulina  hepatica  monstrosa  n.  var.  and 
indicate  its  characters."  Letter  from  Professor  Peck,  August  28,  1899. 
I  have  partially  succeeded  in  transplanting  the  mycelium  of  F. 
hepatica.  Experiments  in  this  direction,  I  feel  confident,  will  introduce 
this  valuable  fungus  to  localities  where  it  is  not  now  found,  or  is  rare. 
Experiments  with  the  spores  have  not  been  as  yet  successful. 

F.  hepatica  monstrosa  n.  var.  Pk.  Subglobose,  supported  on  a  short 
stem  or  stem-like  base,  the  external  surface  entirely  covered  with  tubules 
2—4  mm.  long. 

Pennsylvania.  C.  Mcllvaine.  In  color  and  texture  resembling  the 
common  form,  but  Mr.  Mcllvaine  informs  me  that  there  is  nothing  in 
the  position  or  place  of  growth  of  the  specimens  to  account  for  their 
peculiar  character.  They  are  2-4  in.  in  diameter.  Peck,  Bull.  Torrey 
Bot.  Club,  27,  January,  1900. 

Excellent. 

F.  pal'lida  B.  and  Rav. — pallidus,  pale.  Pileus  kidney-shaped, 
pallid-red,  pulverulent,  1-2  in.  broad,  about  I  in.  long,  margin  inflexed. 
Tubes  more  or  less  decurrent.  Stem  lateral,  striate,  when  dry,  I  K  in. 
long,  K  in.  thick. 

Mountains  of  South  Carolina  on  the  ground.  Ravenel.  Alabama, 
base  of  stumps  of  white  oak.  Peters.  Grev.,  Vol.  I,  No.  5.  New  Jersey, 
Ellis. 


478 


PLATE  CXXV1. 


No.  I.  POLYPOEIJS  FUMOSUS. 

2.  POLTSTICTUS  VEBSICOLOE. 

3.  MEEULIUS  COBIUM.  f  About  natural  size. 

4.  POLYPORUS  PEEENNI8  AND  SECTION.j 

5.  D.EDALEA  QUEECINA.     I 

6.  FOMES  IGNIABIUS.        [•  Reduced  in  size. 

7.  TEAMETES  GIBBOSA.     ) 


Polyporaceee 
POLY'PORFS  Fr. 

Gr. — many  ;  a  passage,  pore. 

Pileus  fleshy,  moist,  tough,  becoming  harder  in  age,  internally  com-  Polypoms. 
posed  of  radiating  fibers ;  the  spore-bearing  surface  is  within  passages 
or  pores  which  are  made  by  the  descending  substance  of  the  pileus  form- 
ing the  dissepiments  or  separating  walls,  hence  they  are  not  easily 
separable  from  the  pileus  or  from  one  another.  The  pores  not  appear- 
ing at  first,  then  becoming  rounded,  angular  or  torn.  They  form  a  dis- 
tinct strata.  Stem  central,  eccentric,  lateral  or  absent. 

With  few  exceptions  growing  from  wood.  Section  Merisma  contains 
species  which  are  conspicuous  among  fungi  for  their  size  and  beauty. 

The  majority  of  this  genus  are  unedible,  because  of  their  being  woody, 
tough  or  bitter.  Few  of  the  edible  species  are  of  the  first  class. 

Excellent  dishes  are  made  by  stewing  the  species  well,  serving  them 
in  patties  or  in  croquettes.  The  cooking  of  P.  intybaceus  is  a  guide  to 
all. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

I. — MESOPUS.      (Gr. — middle;   afoot.)     Page  479. 
Stem  single,  distinct,  central  or  eccentric ;   not  black  at  the  base. 

II. — PLEUROPUS.      (Gr. — fheside;    afoot.)      Page  480. 
Stem  single,  lateral  or  eccentric;   base  black. 

III. — MERISMA.      (Gr. — to  divide.)     Page  482. 

Divided  into  numerous  pileoli,  borne  on  a  simple  or  much-branched 
stem,  or  a  short,  thick  tubercle. 

IV. — APUS.     (Gr. — without;   afoot.)     Page  488. 
Stem  wanting;   pileus  attached  by  the  side  or  spread  on  the  matrix. 

V. — RESUPINATI.      (Lying  on  the  back. )      Page  489. 

The  pores  being  placed  directly  upon  the  wood  or  on  the  mycelium, 
the  pileus  proper  is  absent. 

I. — ME'SOPUS. 

P.  ovi'nus  Schaeff. — relating  to  sheep.  Pileus  2-4  in.  broad,  fleshy, 
thick,  fragile,  irregular  in  shape,  becoming  scaly,  whitish.  Stem  short,. 

479 


Polyporaceae 

Poiyporus.  thick,  i  in.  or  more  in  length,  white.  Pores  minute,  equal,  round, 
white  then  citron-color. 

On  the  ground.     Autumn. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Frost;  Ohio,  Morgan;  New 
York,  ground  in  pine  woods.  Bethlehem.  September,  Peck,  22d  Rep. 

Cordier  says  it  possesses  an  agreeable  odor  of  almonds  and  that  Fries 
and  his  companions  ate  it  raw  in  their  mycological  excursions. 

Edible.     Peck,  Curtis. 

P.  leuco'melas  (Pers.)  Fr. — teucos, -white;  melas,  black.  Pileus 
2—4  in.  broad,  fleshy,  somewhat  fragile,  irregularly-shaped,  silky,  sooty- 
black.  Flesh  soft,  reddish  when  broken.  Stem  1-3  in.  in  length, 
stout,  unequal,  somewhat  tomentose,  sooty-black,  becoming  black 
internally.  Pileus  and  stem  becoming  black  in  places.  Pores  rather 
large,  unequal,  ashy  or  whitish,  becoming  black  in  drying. 

Spores  pale  brown,  io-i2x.4-$f*~Massee. 

North  Carolina,  edible,  Curtis;   Ohio,  a  curious  esculent.     Morgan. 

P.  circina'tus  Fr. — round.  Pileus  3-4  in.  broad,  compact,  thick 
round,  plane,  zoneless,  velvety,  reddish-brown.  Flesh  the  same  color. 
It  forms  duplicate  strata  of  pilei,  the  inferior  contiguous  with  the  stem 
and  corky;  the  superior  compact,  soft,  floccose.  Stem  I  in.  thick 
and  high,  bearing  a  reddish-brown  tomentum.  Pores  decurrent,  entire, 
dusky-gray. 

In  fir  woods. 

A  noble  species,  memorable  for  the  stratified  duplicate  pilei. 

Var.  proliferus.  Like  the  typical  form  but  having  one  or  more  pilei 
developed  from  the  upper  surface  of  the  first  one.  Fulton  Chain 
August.  Peck,  46th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

New  York.  On  ground  in  borders  of  woods.  September.  Peck, 
32d,  46th  Rep. 

On  ground  in  oak  woods,  West  Philadelphia.     Mcllvaine. 

When  young  the  soft  pilei  are  good. 

II. — PLEUROPUS. 

P.  squamo'sus  Fr. — squama,  a  scale.  (Plate  CXXVII,  p.  480.)  Pi- 
leus  3  in.— i)^  ft.  broad,  somewhat  ochraceous,  variegated with  abroad^ 

480 


PLATE  CXXVII. 


TJ 
O 

r- 


O 

?0 

c 
(/) 

t/) 

(O 
c 
> 

O 

C/) 

C 

C/J 


Polyporaceae 

adpressed,  spot-like,  centrifugal,  darker  scales,  fleshy-pliant,  fan-shaped,  Poiypoms. 
flattened.      Stem  excentric  and  lateral,  obese,  reticulated  at  the  apex, 
blackish  at  the  base.     Pores  thin,  variable  (at  first  minute),  then  large, 
angular  and  torn,  pallid.     Fries. 

Handsome,  commonly  very  large,  somewhat  central  and  umbilicate 
when  young,  at  length  lateral,  very  variable  in  shape. 

On  trunks  and  stumps,  chiefly  ash.  Common.  May  to  November. 
Stevenson. 

Spores  oval,  white,  14x6/1  W.G.S.;  elliptical,  colorless,  12x5/1 
Mas  see. 

Massachusetts,  Sprague;  Iowa,  Macbride;  New  York.  Trunk  of  elm. 
May.  Peck,  2/th  Rep. ;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania. 
On  fallen  trunks  and  on  stumps.  May  to  November.  Mcllvaine. 

This  species  does  not  seem  to  be  common  in  America,  but  is  found 
throughout  Europe.  It  varies  in  size  from  3  in.  to  over  3  feet.  It 
has  been  known  to  attain  the  circumference  of  7  ft.  5  in.,  and  the  weight 
of  40  Ibs.  Dr.  Badham  says  that  it  can  not  be  masticated  and  that  its 
expressed  juice  is  very  disagreeable.  The  fact,  however,  remains  that 
it  is  eaten,  and  is  recorded  as  edible  by  most  authors.  It  is  undoubt- 
edly tough,  but  cut  fine  and  stewed  slowly  for  half  an  hour  it  is  quite  as 
tender  as  the  muscle  of  an  oyster  and  has  a  pleasant  flavor. 

P.  pi'cipes  Fr. — pix,  pitch ;  pes,  a  foot.  Pallid  then  chestnut,  com- 
monly pale  yellowish-livid,  with  the  disk  chestnut.  PileilS  fleshy- 
coriaceous,  then  rigid,  tough,  even,  smooth,  depressed  at  the  disk  or 
behind.  Flesh  white.  Stem  excentric  and  lateral,  equal,  firm,  at  first 
velvety,  then  naked,  dotted,  black  up  to  the  pores.  Pores  decurrent, 
round,  very  small,  rather  slender,  white,  then  slightly  pale  yellowish. 
Fries. 

Imbricated,  odor  somewhat  sweet.  The  pileus  is  depressed  behind, 
commonly  emarginate,  funnel-shaped  with  lobes  all  round. 

On  trunks,  especially  willow.  Frequent.  July  to  December.  Steven- 
son. 

Many  young  plants,  in  tufts  upon  a  decaying  oak  log,  were  found  by 
me  at  Mt.  Gretna,  August,  1899.  They  were  oyster-color,  the  very 
thin  caps  translucent,  2-6  in.  across,  -fa  in.  thick;  pores  not  visible  to 
the  naked  eye.  The  black  dots  upon  the  stems  developed  some  time 
after  gathering. 

31  481 


Polyporaceae 

Poiyporus.       They  were  pleasantly  crisp  when   stewed  and  of  fine  flavor.      Older 
specimens  were  bitter  and  tough. 


III. — MERISMA. 

P.  umbella'tus  Fr. — umbella,  a  sun-shade.  Very  much  branched, 
fibrous-fleshy,  toughish.  Pileoli  very  numerous,  %  —  \%  in.  broad, 
sooty,  dull-red  or  pallid  light-yellow,  entire,  umbilicate.  Stems  elon- 
gated, separate,  united  at  the  base,  white.  Pores  minute,  white. 

The  pileoli  have  occurred  white.     Fries. 

Edible.     Fries. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  51;  Richmond,  Ind.,  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist;  Gou- 
verneur,  N.  Y.,  Mrs.  E.  C.  Ant/tony;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Penn- 
sylvania. On  decaying  roots  in  ground  and  on  stumps.  May  to 
November.  Mcllvaine. 

Tufts  dense,  branches  spreading  from  a  center.  The  pilei  up  to  2  in. 
across,  connected  at  base.  The  dense  spreading  tufts,  up  to  a  foot 
across  and  half  as  high,  are  very  noticeable.  The  flesh  is  soft  and  of 
good  flavor.  Cook  like  P.  intybaceus. 

P.  a'nax  Berk.  Fleshy,  fibrous,  rather  tough,  dusky-gray,  branch- 
ing out  from  a  thick,  single  stem  at  the  base  and  forming  a  large  head 
of  branches  and  pileoli  10-20  lines  in  diameter;  the  branches  terminate 
in  numerous  large  pileoli  of  various  forms  and  size,  imbricating,  con- 
fluent and  recurved.  Flesh  and  pores  white.  Stems  thick,  growing 
together,  white.  Pores  large,  unequal,  angular,  white.  Spores  white, 
subelliptic,  7-8/u,  long. 

Ohio,  at  the  base  of  oak  trees  and  stumps.     Autumn.     Morgan. 

This  species  has  apparently  been  confused  by  some  American  my- 
cologists  with  P.  intybaceus.  I  have  received  specimens  of  it  bearing 
that  name.  The  spores  of  that  species  are  described  as  elliptic  or  ovoid. 
The  spores  of  Poiyporus  anax,  as  shown  by  our  specimens,  are  globose. 
Peck,  5  ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Ohio,  Morgan;  New  York,  Peck,  5ist  Rep.;  New  Jersey,  Sterling; 
Angora,  West  Philadelphia,  growing  on  rotting  stump.  September, 
1897,  Mcllvaine. 

Edible  when  young  and  fresh. 

482 


FLATH  CXXVIII. 


-o 
O 
r 
•< 

"0 

O 
TO 
c 

CO 

Tl 
/C 

O 

z 

D 
O 

CO 

C 

CO 


Polyporaceee 


P.  frondo'silS  Fr. — frons,  a  leafy  branch.  (Plate  CXXVIII,  p.  482.) 
Tuft  /4  —  i  ft.  broad,  very  much  branched,  fibrous-fleshy,  toughish. 
Pileoli  very  numerous,  *£— 2  in.,  sooty-gray,  dimidiate,  wrinkled,  lobed, 
intricately  recurved.  Flesh  white.  Stems  growing  into  each  other, 
white.  Pores  rather  tender,  very  small,  acute,  white. 

Pores  commonly  round,  but  in  an  oblique  position,  gaping  open  and 
torn.  Fries. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Iowa,  Macbride;  New  York,  Peck,  24th 
Rep.;  West  Virginia,  1881-1885,  Chester  county,  Angora,  Philadel- 
phia, Pa.  On  stumps,  roots,  etc.  Rare.  September  to  frost,  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Curtis.      Sold  in  the  Roman  market. 

Tufts  up  to  12  in.  across;  the  branches  very  numerous,  up  to  2  in. 
wide.  The  plant  is  tender  when  young  and  grows  tough  as  it  matures. 
When  young  it  is  of  good  flavor  and  edible — older  it  makes  a  well- 
flavored  gravy,  or  is  edible  if  chopped  fine  and  very  well  cooked. 


(Plate  CXXIX.) 


P.  intyba'ceus  Fr. — succory-like.  Very  much  branched,  fleshy, 
somewhat  fragile.  Pileoli  very  nu- 
merous, pale-yellowish  inclining  to 
fuscous,  dimidiate,  stretched  out,  sin- 
uate, at  length  spathulate.  Stems 
connate  in  a  very  short  trunk.  Pores 
firm,  obtuse,  white,  inclining  to  dingy- 
brown.  Fries. 

About  same   size  as  P.  frondosus 
and  larger.      Stevenson. 

Spores  colorless,  elliptical,  7x3.5^ 
Massee;  6x3/u,  W.G.S. 

Tndiana,    H.   I.   Miller.      Base    of 

living  trees.  Woodland  Cemetery,  West  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  Mt.  Gretna, 
Pa.,  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey.  Large  tufts  growing  from  oak  roots 
in  ground  and  at  base  of  oak  trees.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.    Stevenson.      Paulet  says;      In  place  of  its  being  heavy  upon 
the  stomach,  he  will  feel  all  the  lighter  who  sups  upon  it. 

The  people  of  the  Vosges  call  it  the  Hen-of- the- Woods. 

The  words  of  the  old  song — 

"So  very  much  depends  upon 
The  way  in  which  it's  done," 
483 


POLYPORUS    IXTYBACEUS. 


Polyporacese 

Poiyporus.  apply  with  exceptional  force  to  the  cooking  of  P.  intybaceus.  If  it  is 
cut  in  thin  slices  across  the  grain  and  slowly  stewed  for  half  an  hour  it 
will  be  tender  and  of  good  flavor.  It  can  then  be  served  in  that  way, 
or  made  into  patties  or  croquettes. 

P.  crista'tus  Fr. — crista,  a  crest.  Branched,  firmly  fleshy,  fragile. 
Pileoli  about  3  in.  broad,  reddish-green,  entire  and  dimidiate,  imbri- 
cated, depressed,  somewhat  pulverulent-villous,  then  cracked  into  scales. 
Stems  connate,  irregularly  shaped,  white.  Pores  minute,  angular  and 
torn,  whitish.  Fries. 

Very  changeable  in  form,  sometimes  simple  with  an  undulato-lobed, 
central  pileus. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  Woodland  Cemetery,  Philadephia,  West  Virginia. 
On  ground  over  roots,  open  woods  and  grassy  places.  September, 
October.  Mcllvaine. 

Variable  in  form,  but  usually  in  rose-shaped  clusters,  which  are 
slightly  greenish  at  times ;  oftener  shades  of  yellow.  The  substance  is 
the  same  in  texture  as  P.  intybaceus.  Cook  in  same  manner. 

P.  COn'fluens  Fr. — stems  confluent;  adherent.  Pile!  branched,  fleshy, 
fragile,  thick,  dimidiate,  imbricated,  confluent,  smooth,  fleshy-yellow 
becoming  obscure,  slightly  scaly.  Stem  short.  Pores  short,  minute, 
pallid-white. 

Eaten  about  Nice;  savor  a  little  sharp.  Cordier;  North  Carolina, 
superior  eating.  Curtis.  Pine  woods.  New  Scotland.  September. 

Our  specimens  are  not  at  all  squamulose,  and  this  character  is  not 
attributed  to  the  species  by  all  authors.  It  is  probable  that  it  is  not 
uniform  in  this  respect.  Peck,  39th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

P.  Berk'eleyi  Fr.  Very  much  branched.  Pileoli  very  large,  subzon- 
ate,  finally  tomentose,  yellowish,  fleshy,  tough  becoming  corky  and 
hard.  Stem  short  or  none,  arising  from  a  long  and  thick  common  base 
growing  out  of  the  ground  usually  near  trees  or  stumps.  Pores  rather 
large,  irregular,  angular,  pale  yellowish. 

A  magnificent  specimen  found  near  Boston  a  dozen  years  ago  and 
exhibited  in  the  window  of  Doyle,  the  florist,  was  fully  four  feet  high 
and  from  two  to  three  feet  broad,  containing  very  many  pileoli. 

484 


Polyporace® 

North   Carolina,   edible,    Curtis;  Iowa,   Bessey;  Ohio,  Morgan;  Mt.  Poiypoms. 
Gretna,  Pa.,  very  large  specimens,  20  in.  across.     Mcllvaine. 
Edible  when  young. 

P.  gigante  US  Fr. — gigas,  a  giant.  Tuft  1—2  ft.  and  more  broad,  in 
many  imbricated  layers,  fleshy-pliant  then  somewhat  coriaceous.  Pile! 
date-brown,  dimidiate,  very  broad,  flaccid,  somewhat  zoned,  rivulose, 
depressed  behind.  Stems  connato-branched  from  a  common  tuber. 
Pores  minute,  somewhat  round,  pallid,  at  length  torn. 

The  rigid  cuticle  separates  into  granules  or  fibrillose  squamules. 
Pores  becoming  dark  when  touched.  Fries. 

Edible,  Curtis.  Esculent  when  young.  On  the  continent  its  esculent 
qualities  are  known  and  appreciated.  Cooke. 

West  Virginia,  Chester  county,  Pa.,  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.  On  decay- 
ing stumps  and  roots.  Mcllvaine. 

It  is  well  marked  by  its  spore-surface  becoming  black  to  the  touch. 
When  young  and  fresh  it  stews  to  a  pleasant,  edible  consistency,  but  is 
tough  if  not  well  cooked  or  too  old.  The  flavor  of  a  gravy  from  it  is 
at  all  times  good. 

P.  SUlpllll'reilS  Fr. — sulphur,  brimstone.  (Plate  CXXV,  fig.  2, 
p.  476.)  In  many  cespitose  layers,  1-2  ft.  and  more,  juicy-cheesy. 
Pile!  8  in.  or  more  broad,  reddish-yellow,  imbricated,  undulated,  rather 
smooth.  Flesh  light  yellowish,  then  white,  splitting  open  and  not 
hardened  when  old.  Pores  minute,  plane,  sulphur-yellow.  Fries. 

Soon  becoming  pale.  Commonly  sessile,  but  varying  with  a  stem, 
lateral  on  standing  trees,  but  expanded  on  all  sides  on  fallen  ones;  also 
club-shaped,  porous  throughout.  Sow.  In  its  fullest  vigor  it  is  filled 
with  sulphur-yellow  milk. 

On  living  trees  and  stumps.  Frequent.  August  to  October.  Stev- 
enson. (Plate  CXXIXa.) 

Spores  oval,  white,  minutely  papillose,  8x5ju.  W.G.S.;  elliptical, 
hyaline,  slightly  papillose,  7—8x4—5^  Massee. 

Edible.     Stevenson,  Curtis. 

Maryland,  Miss  Banning;  Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller;  West  Virginia, 
New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  On  willow,  apple,  cherry,  maple,  hickory, 
etc.  Frequent.  August  to  November.  Mcllvaine. 

Frequently  in  large  masses.  Commonly  broadly  attached,  but  some- 

485 


Polyporaceae 

Poiypoms.  times  with  a  short  stem.  Very  occasionally  a  single  pileus  will  protrude 
from  a  tree  like  a  giant  yellow  tongue  shaded  with  reddish-orange. 
Usually  the  pilei  are  in  clusters  united  in  a  solid  base,  white-fleshed  and 
rich  in  color.  I  have  seen  clusters  two  feet  across.  On  an  old  willow 
at  Mt.  Gretna,  a  cluster  18  in.  across  afforded  a  dozen  meals.  When- 
ever a  meal  was  wanted  a  pound  or  two  was  broken  off.  It  lasted  until 
January.  If  P.  sulphureus  is  cooked  properly  it  is  a  delicious  fungus. 
Cut  fine,  stew  slowly  and  well,  season,  add  butter,  milk  with  a  little 
thickening. 

P.  macula'tllS  Pk. — having  macttfa-spots.  Pileus  of  a  cheesy  con- 
sistence, broad,  flattened,  sometimes  confluent,  sessile  or  narrowed  into 
a  short  stem,  slightly  uneven,  white  or  yellowish-white,  marked  with 
darker  zones  and  watery  spots.  Pores  minute,  subangular,  short, 
whitish,  sometimes  tinged  with  brown.  Flesh  white. 

Pileus  4-6  in.  broad,  6-8  lines  thick. 

Prostrate  trunks  of  trees  in  woods.     Worcester.     July. 

In  texture  and  shape  this  species  is  related  to  P.  sulphureus,  but  the 
pores  are  smaller  than  in  that  species.  The  plants  are  sometimes  cespi- 
tose,  sometimes  single.  The  spots  in  the  dried  specimens  have  a 
smooth  depressed  appearance.  Peck,  26th  Rep. 

Angora,  West  Philadelphia.  September,  1896.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa., 
September,  1897-1898.  On  white  oak  trunks.  Mcllvaine. 

Several  specimens  of  different  ages  proved  good  eating.  Like  P. 
sulphureus  it  must  be  well  cooked. 

P.  hetero'clitus  Fr.  Gr. — one  of  two;  Gr. ,  to  lean.  In  many  ces- 
pitose  layers,  coriaceous.  Pilei  2%  in.  broad,  orange,  sessile,  ex- 
panded on  all  sides  from  a  radical  tubercle,  lobed,  villous,  zoneless. 
Pores  irregularly  shaped  and  elongated,  golden-yellow.  Fries. 

On  the  ground  under  oak.      Rare. 

The  flat  pilei  extend  horizontally  from  the  tubercle.  Irregular,  ec- 
centric. Stevenson. 

Minnesota,  Johnson. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  Hopkin's  woods.  June  to  July,  1890-1896. 
Mcllvaine. 

Of  all  fungoid  growth  this  is  the  most  showy.  Its  clusters,  often  a 
foot  and  a  half  in  diameter  and  spread  like  mammoth  dahlias,  are  gor- 

486 


Polyporacese 

geous  in  color  and  conspicuous  in  design.     Resting  upon  the  ground  or  Poiyporus. 
reared  against  the  base  of  tree  or  stump,  they  deceive  by  their  likeness 
to  gaudy  bouquets,  left  by  foreign  picnickers.     In  quality  it  is  the  same 
as  P.  sulphureus.     It  does  not,  however,  retain  its  edibility.  As  it  ages 
it  becomes  offensive. 

P.  por'ipes  Fr. — porous-stemmed.  Pileus  i-S-3  in.  broad,  rather 
fleshy,  sinuately  repand,  smooth,  grayish-brown.  Stem  central  or  ex- 
centric,  firm,  smooth,  1.5-3  m-  l°ng»  4-6  lines  thick,  punctuated  by 
the  whitish  decurrent  pores. 

On  earth  in  hilly  regions. 

Cap  2  in.  across,  light  drab,  smooth,  slightly  furfuraceous  toward 
center,  broken  into  minute  appressed  squamules,  zoned.  Flesh  fibrous, 
white-pliable.  Tubes  very  shallow,  round  mouths  with  obtuse  divisions, 
china-white,  running  down  to  base  of  stem.  Stem  eccentric,  almost 
lateral,  entirely  surrounded  by  pores,  connate  at  base,  %  in.  thick. 

•Smell  pleasant. 

New  York.  Ground.  August,  Peck,  Rep.  24;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa., 
August  to  November,  Mcllvaine.  A  large  tufted  species  growing  on 
the  ground  in  woods,  August  to  November,  Mcllvaine. 

When  raw  tastes  like  the  best  chestnuts  or  filberts,  but  rather  too  dry 
cooked.  Curtis. 

It  must  be  chopped  fine  and  slowly  cooked. 

P.  immi'tis  Pk. — wide,  rude.  Pilei  cespitose-imbricated,  broad, 
slightly  convex  or  flattened,  more  or  less  rough  or  uneven,  radiately- 
wrinkled,  tuberculose  or  fibrous-bristled,  zoneless,  white,  becoming 
tinged  with  yellow  or  alutaceous  in  drying.  Flesh  white,  slightly  fibrous, 
soft  and  moist  when  fresh,  cheesy  when  dry,  with  a  subacid  odor.  Pores 
minute,  angular  or  even  subflexuous,  about  equal  in  length  to  the  thick- 
ness of  the  pileus,  the  dissepiments  thin,  white,  often  at  length  dentate 
or  lacerate  on  the  edge.  Spores  minute,  white,  elliptical,  3-4x18-20/4. 

Pile!  2-4  in.  broad,  the  flesh  commonly  3-4  lines  thick. 

Decaying  ash  trunks.     East  Berne.     August. 

The  species  is  apparently  related  to  P.  caesareus,  but  the  character  of 
the  pores  is  quite  different  in  the  two  species.  Peck,  35th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     On  dead  black  oak.     August  to  November,  il 

487 


Polyporacese 

Poiyporus.  Several  clusters  grew  on  dead  black  oaks.  The  pilei  overlap  and 
the  wrinkled  corrugated  margins  curve  downward,  giving  them  the 
semblance  of  shells.  From  a  distance  a  group  looks  like  Pleurotus 
ostreatus.  The  substance  is  juicy ;  while  cooking  it  is  at  first  bitter,  but 
this  disappears.  It  becomes  tender  and  well  flavored. 

P.  alliga'tus  Fr. — alligo,  to  bind  to.  In  many  cespitose  layers, 
fibrous-fleshy,  rigid-fragile.  Pile!  tan-isabelline,  imbricated,  unequal, 
zoneless,  villous.  Pores  minute,  soft,  white,  readily  becoming  stopped 
up  with  flocci. 

Often  clavate  when  young.  Commonly  wrapping  round  stipules  and 
grasses.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  pale,  6x//i  Massee. 

Woodland  Cemetery,  Philadelphia.  Among  oak  trees  on  grassy 
ground.  July,  August,  September.  Mcllvaine. 

Tufts  frequently  weigh  two  pounds.  When  young  the  plant  cooks 
well,  is  tender  and  of  sweet,  pleasant  flavor.  When  old  it  has  a  sour 
unpleasant  odor. 

IV. — APUS. 

P.  chio'neus  Fr.  Gr. — snow.  White  pileus  I  in.  and  more  broad, 
fleshy,  soft,  becoming  even,  smooth,  zoneless,  often  extended  behind, 
margin  inflexed.  Pores  curt,  very  small,  round,  equal,  quite  entire. 
Fries. 

Always  soft,  fragile,  hyaline-white  when  moist,  shining  white  when 
dry.  Odor  acid.  Without  a  cuticle.  Stevenson. 

Spores  white,  oval,  21x3/1,  W.G.S. 

New  York.     Decaying  wood  of  frondose  trees.     Peck,  33d  Rep. 

Angora,  Philadelphia,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  On  standing  and  fallen 
timber.  June  to  September.  Mcllvaine. 

This  snow-white  Poiyporus  is  too  conspicuous  to  be  passed  unseen. 
One  does  not  expect  to  find  snow-balls  stuck  against  trees  in  August. 
At  a  distance  it  resembles  one.  When  young  and  fresh  it  is  good. 

P.  betuli'nus  Fr. — betula,  birch.  PileilS  fleshy,  then  corky,  hoof- 
shaped,  obtuse,  zoneless,  smooth,  the  oblique  vertex  in  the  form  of  an 
umbo,  pellicle  thin,  separating.  Pores  late  of  being  developed,  curt, 
minute,  unequal,  at  length  separating.  Fries. 

488 


Polyporaceee 

On  living  and  dead  birch.     Common.     May  to  December.  Poiypoms. 

Pileus  3-6  in.  broad.  The  pileus  is  at  first  pale,  then  acquiring  a 
brownish  tinge.  The  edge  is  always  very  obtuse.  Stevenson. 

The  lower  surface  or  hymenium  is  frequently  rough  with  numerous 
acicular  projections,  making  the  plant  look  like  a  Hydnum  when  viewed 
horizontally.  Peck,  24th  Rep.  N.  Y..  State  Bot. 

Massachusetts,  Kansas,  New  York.     Peck,  Rep.  24. 

Wherever  the  birch  grows  this  neat,  white-fleshed  Polyporus  abounds. 

When  young  it  is  eaten  by  deer.  Dried  it  burns  with  a  white  flame, 
or  holds  fire  as  well  as  the  best  punk.  It  is  a  valuable  fuel,  already 
prepared  for  the  stove.  In  the  birch  forests  near  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa., 
tons  of  it  can  be  seen  protruding  from  tree  and  log. 

When  very  young  it  is  fair.     Unpleasant  when  old. 

V. — RESUPINATI. 

P.  sinuo'sus  Fr. — full  of  folds.  Broadly  effused,  adnate,  dry,  the 
evanescent  mycelium  somewhat  rooting,  white  then  yellowish.  Pores 
large,  surface  flexuous,  acute,  lacerated.  Odor  of  licorice. 

New  York.     Decaying  wood  of  maple.     Peck,  4Oth  Rep. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.     Mcllvaine. 

Of  but  little  food  value.  Collected  carefully  and  boiled,  it  yields  a 
pleasantly  flavored  liquor. 


489 


Folyporaceee 

MERU'LIUS  Hall. 
(Plate  CXXVI,  fig.  3,  p.  478.) 

Merulius.  Hymenophore  resting  on  a  loose  mold-like  mycelium,  covered  with 
the  soft,  waxy,  continuous  hymenium,  having  its  surface  variously 
plicate  or  wrinkled,  the  folds  forming  irregular  pores,  sometimes  obso- 
letely  toothed. 

Generally  on  wood. 

I  have  tasted,  raw,  every  species  I  have  found.  They  are  all  more 
or  less  woody  in  flavor,  and  I  believe  them  to  be  edible.  At  the  best 
Merulius  would  be  an  emergency  genus.  M.  tremellosus  is  substantial, 
as  is  M.  rubellus  Pk. 

•M.  tremello'silS  Schrad. — tremellosus,  trembling.  Resupinate;  mar- 
gin becoming  free  and  more  or  less  reflexed,  usually  radiately-toothed, 
gelatinoso-cartilaginous ;  hymenium  variously  wrinkled  and  porous;  whit- 
ish and  subtranslucent  looking,  becoming  tinged  brown  in  the  center. 
Spores  cylindrical,  curved,  about  4x1/1. 

On  wood.  From  1-3  in.  across,  remaining  pale  when  growing  in 
dark  places.  Margin  sometimes  tinged  rose,  radiating  when  well  de- 
veloped. Mas  see. 

Spores  cylindrical,  curved,  hyaline,  4x1  ju,  K. 

New  York.  Old  logs,  stumps,  Catskill  mountains.  Peck,  22d  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Common,  both  rose-colored  and  translucent  brown 
species,  numerous  on  decaying  wood.  October  to  November,  1898— 
1 899 .  Mcllvaine . 

M.  tremellosus  is  a  common  species  and  rather  attractive  looking. 
In  substance  it  approaches  Tremella  and  Peziza.  The  spore-bearing  sur- 
face is  superior  (turned  upward)  and  then  sometimes  turned  in  at  the 
margin  which  frequently  is  bright  rose  color,  sometimes  yellowish-rose. 
It  is  rather  tasteless — slightly  woody  in  flavor,  rather  tough.  An  emer- 
gency species. 

M.  rubellus  Pk. — rubelhis,  dim.  of  ruber,  reddish.  Generally  cespi- 
tose,  imbricated,  sessile,  dimidiate,  soft,  tenacious,  tomentose,  evenly 
red,  pale  when  dry;  margin  mostly  undulately  inflexed;  hymenium 

490 


Polyporaceae 

white  or  flesh-color;  folds  branching,  forming  anastomosing  pores. 
Spores  elliptical,  hyaline,  minute,  4-5x2.5-3^. 

Pileus  2-3  in.  long,  1.5  in.  broad. 

Somewhat  related  to  M.  tremellosus. 

On  trunks  of  beech  in  woods. 

Ohio,  Morgan;  Indiana,  Dr.  f.  R.  Weist;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  Novem- 
ber. Mcllvaine.  Specimens  identified  by  Professor  Peck. 

Tough,  but  edible. 


491 


Hydnaceae 


FAMILY  III.— HYDNA'CE^E. 

Hymenium  inferior  or  amphigenous  (not  confined  to  one  surface), 
from  the  first  definitely  protuberant,  spread  over  persistent  spines, 
bristles,  teeth,  tubercles  or  papillae.  Fries. 

While  the  highest  members  of  this  family  possess  the  general  form  of 
the  mushroom,  others,  lacking  a  stem,  recline  on  the  back  (resupi- 
nate)  ;  the  lowest,  without  even  the  appearance  of  a  distinct  pileus, 
seem  to  be  simply  spread  over  the  supporting  body  (effused).  In  the 
highest  class  the  spines  or  other  spore-bearing  surface  are  inferior,  i.  e., 
below  the  pileus;  in  the  others  they  are  of  course  superior,  i.  e.,  above 
the  pileus. 

Of  the  eleven  genera  but  two  contain  species  of  food  value.  Hyd- 
num,  characterized  by  its  acute  spines,  embraces  species  which  are 
eaten  as  delicacies,  and  Irpex,  distinguished  by  its  somewhat  acute 
teeth  growing  from  a  ridgy  hymenium,  contains  those  which  may  furnish 
sustenance  in  time  of  need.  In  Caldesia,  bearing  spines,  the  texture  is 
floccose  not  fleshy.  Sistotrema  has  a  pileus  and  a  central  stem,  but  in- 
stead of  spines  bears  irregular  flattened  teeth.  The  remaining  genera 
are  separated  by  the  tubercles,  granules,  folds,  etc.,  which  take  the 
place  of  spines  or  teeth. 

Several  species  of  Hydnum  are  common  to  earth  and  wood,  others 
are  distinct  in  their  habitats. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  THE  GENERA. 

HYDNUM.     Page  494. 

Sporophore  fleshy,  with  a  central  stem  or  entirely  resupinate,  texture 
compact,  spines  acute,  distinct  at  the  base. 

CALDESIELLA. 

Resupinate;  texture  floccose,  spines  acute;  spores  muriculate.     (No 
edible  species  reported.) 

492 


Hydnaceee 

SlSTOTREMA. 

Pileate;  fleshy,  central-stemmed,  teeth  flattened,  irregular,  inferior. 
(No  edible  species  reported.) 

IRPEX.      Page  504. 

Resupinate;  teeth  rather  acute,  springing  from  folds  or  ridges  that 
often  anastomose  irregularly. 

RADULUM. 

Resupinate;  tubercles  coarse,  deformed,  subcylindrical,  obtuse.  (No 
edible  species  reported.) 

PHLEBIA. 

Resupinate ;  hymenium  covered  with  folds  or  wrinkles,  having  the 
edge  entire  or  corrugated.  (No  edible  species  reported.) 

GRANDINIA. 

Resupinate;  hymenium  with  crowded,  globose,  persistent,  hemi 
spherical,  minute  granules,  having  their  apices  more  or  less  excavated. 
(No  edible  species  reported.) 

POROTHELIUM. 

Resupinate ;  hymenium  with  scattered  wart-like  granules,  which  be- 
come more  or  less  elongated  and  excavated  at  the  apices.  (No  edible 
species  reported.) 

ODONTIA. 

Resupinate ;  hymenium  densely  covered  with  small  granules  that  are 
divided  at  the  apices  in  a  penicillate  manner.  (No  edible  species  re- 
ported.) 

KNEIFFIA. 

Resupinate;  hymenium  covered  with  very  minute,  barren,  acute 
spinules.  (No  edible  species  reported. ) 

MUCRONELLA. 

Spines  slender,  elongated,  acute,  not  springing  from  a  sporophore  or 
subiculum.  (No  edible  species  reported.) 

493 


Hydnacese 


Hydnunu 


HYD'NUM. 

Gr. — name  for  some  edible  fungus. 

YMENIUM  inferior,  bearing  awl-shaped  Spines, 
distinct  at  the  base.     Fries. 

In  this  genus  the  spines  proceed  from  an  even 
surface,  not  folded  or  wrinkled,  and  are  covered 
with  the  spore-bearing  surface. 

The  forms  are  extremely  variable,  the  type  of 
the  first  section,  H.  repandum,  being  easily  mis- 
taken for  one  of  the  Agaricaceae  until  examined, 

the  stem  being  nearly  central  and  upright,  while  in  other  forms  it  is 
lateral  or  absent.  Some  are  dimidiate  (as  if  part  of  the  pileus  had 
been  removed  and  the  plant  attached  by  the  remaining  portion) ;  the 
lower  forms  are  resupinate. 


ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

MESOPUS  (Gr. — middle,  a  foot).    Page  495. 

Entire,  simple,  stem  central. 

On  the  ground,  mostly  in  pine  woods. 

PLEUROPUS  (Gr. — the  side;   a  foot). 

Stem  lateral. 

None  known  to  be  edible. 

MERISMA  (Gr. — to  divide).    Page  501. 
Very  much  branched  or  of  an  irregular  form  without  a  distinct  mar- 


gin. 


APUS  (Gr. — without;  a  foot).     Page  503. 
Stemless,  dimidiate,  margin  distinct. 

RESUPINATI  (resupino,  to  throw  on  the  back). 

Without  stem  or  distinct  pileus. 
None  known  to  be  edible. 

494 


Hydnaceae 

MES'OPUS.      Gr. — middle;  a  foot. 
(Entire,  simple,  stem  central.     On  the  ground,  mostly  in  pine  woods.) 

H.  imbrica'tum  L. — imbrex,  a  tile.      Pileus  about  2-5  in.  broad,  Hydnum. 
umber,  zoneless,   fleshy,  rather   plane,  somewhat  umbilicate,  fioccose, 
tessulato-scaly.    Flesh  dingy  whitish.    Stem  curt,  1-3  in.  long,  1-2  in. 
thick,  even.     Spines  4-6  lines  long,  decurrent,  ashy-white. 

There  are  two  forms ;  one  with  the  pileus  plane  and  with  thick  per- 
sistent scales,  another  with  the  pileus  somewhat  infundibuliform,  and 
with  thinner,  at  length  separating  scales.  Stevenson. 

Spores  pale  yellow  brown,  rough,  6-7x5;*  Massee;  6x5/«,  W.G.S. 

Fleshy.  The  numerous  scales  over  lapping  toward  the  center.  The 
surface  of  the  cap  often  cracks  in  a  tesselated  manner.  Flesh  dingy, 
buffish  or  reddish.  Spines  short,  blunt,  grayish-white  and  mostly  of 
equal  length. 

In  pine  and  mixed  woods.     Autumn. 

Of  delicate  taste.      Cordier.     Edible.      Curtis. 

Fine  specimens  grew  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  from  September  to  Novem- 
ber. Until  closely  examined  the  cap  may  be  mistaken  for  that  of  H. 
zonatum.  The  zones  of  the  latter  and  the  pervading  rust-color  will 
distinguish  it.  Both  are  edible,  though  H.  zonatum  is  much  tougher. 
H.  imbricatum  is  slightly  bitter,  raw.  It  must  be  sliced  thin  and  well 
cooked. 

H.  Iseviga'tum  Swartz — lavis,  smooth.  Pileus  4-6  in.  broad,  um- 
ber, fleshy,  compact,  firm,  regular,  plane,  even,  very  smooth,  margin 
circinate  (not  repand).  Flesh  whitish,  compact,  but  by  no  means 
fibrous,  soft  when  fresh,  pliant  when  dry.  Stem  short,  thick,  even, 
pallid-brown.  Spines  thin,  pallid-brown. 

Its  size  is  that  of  H.  imbricatum,  but  it  occurs  twice  as  large,  with 
the  pileus  minutely  rimuloso-rivulose,  by  no  means  scaly.  The  stem 
varies  curt  and  unequal  or  longer  and  equal.  Quite  distinct  from  H. 
fragile.  Stevenson. 

Spores   io-15/x,  long,  Massee;  globose,  waited,  pale  lemon-yellow, 

7*Q> 

In  pine  woods.     August  to  October. 

Edible,  Curtis;  edible,  Leuba.    "Eaten  in  Alpine  districts."    Barla. 

495 


Hydnaceae 


Hydnnm.        H.  SCabro'SUm  Fr.- 


(Plate  CXXXI.) 


HYDNUM  SCABROSUM. 
Natural  size. 


scabrosus,  rough.  Pilens  about  1^2-4  in.  broad. 
brownish-yellow,  compactly  fleshy, 
at  first  top-shaped,  then  plane  above, 
very  convex  beneath,  at  first  tomen- 
tose,  then  rough  with  flocci  which 
are  fasciculate  in  the  form  of  minute 
crowded  squamules,  slightly  repand 
at  the  margin.  Flesh  very  thick, 
white,  descending  into  the  stem. 
Stem  very  curt,  I  in.  long,  and 
equally  thick,  round  or  compressed, 
dotted  with  the  rudiments  of  spines 
decurrent  upon  it,  ash-color,  attenu- 
ated downward,  roundish  and  black- 
ish at  the  base.  Spines  4  lines  long, 

equal,  awl-shaped,  dingy-rust  color,  whitish  at  the  apex,  at  first  sight 

grayish-brown .     Fries . 

Spores  4-5/*  diameter.     Massee. 

Hydnum  scabrosum  is  frequently  found  in  Pennsylvania,  among  pines 

and  in  mixed  woods  where  pines  grow.     It  occurs  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa., 

and  on  Springton  Hills  under  hemlocks. 

The  caps  are  soft,  fleshy,  and  equal  to  H.  repandum  in  quality. 

H.  squamo'sum  Schaeff. — squama,  a  scale.  Pileus  1-^-3  in.  across, 
reddish-brown,  fleshy,  irregular,  depressed,  smooth,  breaking  up  into 
irregular  scales.  Flesh  whitish.  Stem  curt,  attenuated  downward, 
white.  Spines  grayish-brown,  whitish  at  the  apex.  Stevenson. 

Spores  subglobose,  5—  6ft  diameter.     Massee. 

Pileus  smooth  and  even  when  young.  Flesh  whitish.  Spores  gray- 
ish-brown. Spines  whitish,  giving  the  lower  surface  a  much  lighter  ap- 
pearance than  the  upper. 

Under  hemlock  and  spruce  in  West  Virginia,  1884.     Mcllvaine. 

Caps  are  good  when  sliced  thin  and  well  cooked. 

H.  subsquamo'sum  Batsch.  Pileus  fleshy,  somewhat  convex,  sub- 
umbilicate,  brownish-rust  color,  superficial  scales  soon  dropping  off; 
spotted  with  brown.  Stem  stout,  unequal,  smooth.  Spines  whitish, 
becoming  brown,  apex  remaining  whitish. 

496 


HYDNUM  REPANDUM. 


Hydnacese 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Alabama,  Peters;  Massachusetts,  Sprague.      Hydnum. 
Edible.  '   Curtis.     Edible.     Cordier. 

H.  repan'dum  L, — repandus,  bent  backward  (of  the  cap,  upward). 
Pileus  2-6  in.  broad,  pallid,  etc., 
fleshy,  fragile,  somewhat  repand, 
rather  smooth.  Stem  2-5  in.  long, 
%— I  %  in.  thick,  irregularly  shaped, 
pallid.  Spines  4  lines  long,  un- 
equal, of  the  same  color.  Stevenson. 

Spores  pointed,  5-8/x.  Massee, 

Pileus  sometimes  depressed,  often 
turned  upward  at  margin,  often 
waved,  sometimes  tomentose.  Color 
variable — light-buff,  brown,  pinkish, 
reddish,  Flesh- whitish,  compact, 
fragile.  Spines  conical,  up  to  K  in. 

in  length,  whitish  but  rich  creamy  shades,  mostly  pointed,  but  some- 
times appearing  to  be  hollow.  Stem  central  or  eccentric,  sometimes 
covered  with  white  down,  thick,  uneven,  usually  crooked,  solid,  fleshy, 
light  in  color. 

July  to  November. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

Common  to  most  countries,  and,  although  given  as  a  ground-growing 
species,  it  is  rather  indiscriminate  in  its  habitats.  Woods,  fields,  leaf- 
covered  or  bare  places,  much  decayed  wood  and  stumps  are  its  living 
places.  Dr.  Cooke  thinks  it  irreproachable.  Popularly  it  goes  by  the 
name  of  the  Hedgehog  mushroom. 

H.  repandum  varies  greatly  in  shape,  color  and  texture.  In  the  open 
it  is  usually  symmetrical  and  tough ;  when  clustered  it  is  irregular,  often 
fanciful  and  quite  brittle — tender. 

When  sliced  thin  an  hour's  slow  cooking  is  sufficient.  All  writers 
commend  it,  and  properly. 

H.  rufes'cens  Pers. — ntfus,  red.  Pileus  2-3  in.  across,  thin,  fragile, 
usually  regular,  pubescent,  reddish.  Spines  1-3  lines  long,  regular. 
Stem  1-3  in.  long,  commonly  thin,  nearly  equal,  reddish. 


497 


Hydnacese 

Hydnum.  The  whole  plant  is  reddish.  In  all  other  respects  it  resembles  H. 
repandum.  Usually  more  regular. 

Commonly  found  in  woods.  New  York,  Peck;  North  Carolina, 
Curtis,  Schweinitz. 

Edible,  Curtis.     Edible,  Leuba. 

Fries  considered  H.  rufescens  a  variety  of  H.  repandum,  and  the 
writer  agrees  with  him.  It  is  given  distinct  place  here  because  Massee 
and  Stevenson — books  in  the  hands  of  many  students  of  fungi — give  it 
importance. 

It  is  quite  as  good  as  H.  repandum. 

H.  ferrugi'neum  Fr.  Pileus  1-4  in-  across,  cor^y,  soft,  convex, 
then  plane  or  depressed,  irregularly  pitted,  ferruginous,  at  first  with 
whitish  tomentum.  Flesh  ferruginous.  Spines  thin,  acute,  about  2 
lines  long,  rusty-brown.  Stem  firm,  2-3  in.  long,  unequal,  rusty- 
brown.  Spores  subglobose,  4/1,  diameter. 

In  fir  woods.  Often  gregarious;  soft  when  young,  corky  and  dry  at 
maturity.  Massee. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  November  to  December,  1898.  Among  pine 
leaves. 

Taste  mild,  mealy.     Tough,  but  when  young  it  cooks  tender. 

H.  zona'tum  Batsch.  Ferruginous.  Pileus  1-2  in.  broad,  equally 
coriaceous,  thin,  expanded,  somewhat  infundibuliform,  zoned,  becoming 
smooth,  radiately-wrinkled ,  the  paler  margin  sterile  beneath.  Stem 
K—  %  in.  long,  2—3  lines  thick,  slender,  somewhat  equal,  floccose,  base 
tuberous.  Spines  I— i^  lines  long,  slender,  pallid,  then  rust-color. 
Stevenson. 

Spores  rough,  globose,  pale  watery  brown,  4^  diameter  Massee. 

New  York,  Peck,  24th  Rep.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  Abundant  among 
hemlocks;  West  Virginia.  Mcllvaine. 

Coriaceous.  Edible.  It  will  not  cook  tender,  but  yields  a  pleasant 
flavor  to  a  gravy  made  of  its  juices. 

H.  albo'nigrum  Pk.  Pileus  convex  or  nearly  plane,  broadly  ob- 
conical,  tough  but  soft  and  densely  tomentose  on  the  upper  surface, 
buff-brown  or  smoky  brown,  often  wholly  covered  with  a  whitish  downy 
tomentum,  sometimes  on  the  margin  only,  substance  within  soft  tomen- 

498 


Hydnacese 


tose  and  buff-brown  in  the  upper  stratum,  the  lower  half  hard  and  black.  Hydnum. 
Spines  short,  at  first  white,  then  whitish  or  grayish.  Stem  short,  often 
irregular,  compressed  or  growing  together,  blackish  when  moist,  buff- 
brown  when  dry,  covered  with  a  thick  dense  tomentum,  which  is  fre- 
quently more  abundant  toward  the  base,  hard  and  black  within.  Spores 
white,  globose,  4~5/*. 

Pileus  1-3  in.  broad,  sometimes  2  or  3  confluent.   Stem  1—2  in.  long. 

Ground  in  mixed  woods.  Gansevoort.  August.  Peck,  5<Dth  Rep. 
N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Specimens  from  pine  woods  New  Jersey,  T.  J.  Collins,  September, 
1897.  i%  in.  across.  Frequent  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa. 

Edible.      Good  flavor,  but  tough. 

H.  velle'reum  Pk.  This  species  appears  to  be  very  much  like  the 
preceding  one  (H.  albonigrum  Pk.)  from  which  it  is  separated  by  its 
smaller  size  and  the  paler  brownish  or  rusty-brown  substance  of  its 
pileus  and  stem.  Peck,  5oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

At  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  the  species  grows  with  H..  albonigrum.  In 
quality  it  is  the  same. 


(Plate  CXXXIII.) 


H.  al'bidum    Pk.     Pileus    fleshy,  thin,  broadly    convex   or   nearly 
plane,  subpruinose,  white.     Flesh 
white.     Spines  short,  white.     Stem 
short,  solid,  central  or  eccentric,  white. 
Spores  subglobose,  4-5/4  broad. 

The  whitish  Hydnum  is  uniformly 
colored  in  all  parts.  It  grows  in 
groups  or  in  clusters.  In  the  latter 
case  the  caps  are  sometimes  irregular 
because  of  the  crowded  mode  of 
growth  and  the  stems  are  occasionally 
eccentric.  It  is  a  small  species  not 
liable  to  be  mistaken  for  any  other 
except  possibly  for  very  small  pale 

forms  of  the  spreading  Hydnum.     But  wholly  white  examples  of  this 
species  have  never  been  seen  by  me. 

The  caps  are  1-2  in.  broad  and  the  stems  are  generally  about  I   in. 
long  and  3-5  lines  thick. 

499 


HYDNUM  ALBIDUM. 


Hyduaceae 

Hydnum.  The  plants  grow  in  thin  woods  or  in  open  bushy  places  and  appear  in 
June  and  July.  It  is  not  a  common  species,  and  though  well  flavored 
it  is  not  of  very  great  importance  as  an  edible  mushroom,  because  of  its 
scarcity  and  small  size.  Peck,  5ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Port  Jefferson.  July.  This  fungus  has  been  tested  and  found  to  be 
edible.  Peck,  5oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  1897.  Specimens  identified  by  Professor  Peck. 
Mcllvaine. 

The  caps  are  edible  and  superior  to  H.  repandum. 

H.  fen'nicum  Karst.  Cap  fleshy,  fragile,  unequal,  at  first  scaly,  at 
length  breaking  up,  reddish-brick  color  becoming  darker,  margin 
undulately  lobed,  2-4  in.  broad.  Flesh  white.  Stem  sufficiently 
stout,  unequal  below,  attenuated,  flexuous  or  curved,  smooth,  of  the 
same  color  as  the  cap,  base  acute,  light  white  tomentum  outside,  inside 
light  pale-blue  or  dark-gray  (wood-ash),  1-3  in.  long1,  .4-1  in.  thick. 
Teeth  decurrent,  equal,  pointed,  from  white  dusky,  about  4  mm.  long. 
Spores  ellipso-spheroidical  or  sub-spheroidical,  rough,  dusky,  4-6)".  long, 
3-5/u,  broad. 

Found  in  gravelly  or  sandy  soil  in  woods. 

Found  at  Angora  near  Philadelphia.  Top  cracked.  Identified  by 
Professor  Peck. 

Occurs  frequently  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  ground  in  mixed  woods. 
August  to  September.  The  taste  and  smell  are  at  first  inviting,  but 
the  extreme  bitter  which  develops  destroys  all  desire  to  eat  it. 

H.  spongio'sipes  Pk.  Pileus  convex,  soft,  spongy-tomentose,  but 
tough  in  texture,  rusty-brown,  the  lower  stratum  more  firm  and  fibrous, 
but  concolorous.  Spines  slender,  1-2  lines  long,  rusty-brown,  becom- 
ing darker  with  age.  Stem  hard  and  corky  within,  externally  spongy- 
tomentose,  colored  like  the  pileus,  the  central  substance  often  trans- 
versely zoned  especially  near  the  top.  Spores  subglobose,  nodulose, 
purplish-brown,  4-6/4  broad. 

Pileus  1.5-4  in.  broad.     Stem  1.5-3  in.  long,  4-8  lines  thick. 

Woods.      Rensselaer  and  Saratoga  counties.     August. 

This  plant  was  formerly  referred  to  Hydnum  ferrugineum  Fr.  Peck, 
5oth  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Found  in  pine  woods,  near  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  by  T.  J.  Col- 

500 


PLATE  CXXXIV. 


O 
z 

c 


O 

O 


D 
m 


D 
z 
c 
£ 

n 
> 

"0 

c 

H 

i 

C 
70 
(S) 


Hydnaceee 

lins,  September,  1897.      Cap  and  stem  dark  brown.     Spines  darker.  Hydnnnu 
Stem  swelling  toward  base,  which  then  tapers  in  a  long  rooting  way. 
Cap  umbilicate.      Specimens  identified  by  Professor  Peck. 

Edible  but  tough  and  uninviting.  Yields  a  good  fungoid  flavor  to 
the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled. 

H.  gelatinosum  Scop.  Transferred  to  Tremelledon  as  T.  gelatino- 
sum,  under  which  heading  it  is  described  and  its  edible  qualities  noted. 

MERIS'MA.      Gr. — a  division. 
(Very  much  branched  or  of  an  irregular  form  without  a  distinct  margin.) 

H.  coralloi'des  Scop.  (Plate  CXXXIV.)  6-18  in.  across.  Tufts 
on  wood.  Pure  shining  white  growing  yellow  with  age,  composed 
wholly  of  attenuated  interlacing  branches  %  in.  at  base,  tapering  to  a 
point.  Spines  growing  from  one  side  of  the  branches,  3-4  lines  in 
length,  awl-shaped. 

Spores  globose,  4-6/u.  diameter  Massee. 

Peck,  Rep.  22 ;  Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller;  Massachusetts,  Sprague;  Cali- 
fornia; West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

Grows  upon  standing  and  fallen  timber  which  is  attacked  by  decay. 
Fir,  oak,  beech,  ash,  birch,  hickory  and  other  trees  are  inhabited  by  it. 
August  to  frost. 

This  beautiful  species  can  not  be  mistaken  for  any  other.  Its  name 
is  the  best  guide  to  its  identification.  Dame  Nature  has  made  many 
exquisite  decorations  for  herself  and  this  is  one  of  them. 

It  is  generally  eaten,  but  is  rare.  Professor  Peck  speaks  affectionately 
of  it  as  a  gratuitous  adjunct  to  his  bill  of  fare  when  on  botanical  tramps 
in  the  Adirondacks. 

H.  capnt-ur'si  Fr. — bear-head.  6-8  in.  high,  6-8  in.  across.  Tufts 
usually  pendulous,  compact,  white,  becoming  yellow  and  brownish. 
Spines  up  to  I  in.  long,  round,  pointed.  Branches  in  every  direction, 
short.  (Plate  CXXXIVa.) 

Closely  resembling  H.  coralloides  and  in  small  forms  with  shorter 
spines  easily  mistaken  for  it.  Position  of  growth  has  much  to  do  with 

501 


Hydnaceee 

Hydnum.  its  shape  and  appearance.  On  fallen  timber  the  branchlets  and  spines 
may  be  erect. 

New  York,  Peck,  44th  Rep. ;  North  Carolina,  Curtis;  West  Virginia, 
New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Curtis.     Edible.     Peck. 

Hydnum  caput-ursi  is  common  in  West  Virginia  forests.  It  is  con- 
spicuous on  standing  oaks,  and  at  a  distance  a  puzzling  object  to  one 
not  familiar  with  such  excrescences.  It  grows  on  standing  oaks  near 
Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  and  sparsely  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa. 

It  is  more  compact,  and  is  tougher  than  H.  coralloides  and  H.  Me- 
dusae, but  cooks  tender  and  is  very  good. 

H.  caput-Medll'sse  Bull.— head  of  Medusae.  (Plate  CXXXV.) 
3—18  in.  across,  2—8  in.  high.  Tufts  pendulous.  White  then  grayish. 
Body  compact,  tapering  to  a  solid  base,  more  or  less  stem-like.  Spines 
covering  entire  surface.  Those  upon  top  are  long,  thin,  straight  or 
distorted,  growing  shorter  around  and  to  the  under  side  where  they 
are  short  and  straight.  The  wavy  appearance  of  the  slender  spines  re- 
mind of  the  snaky  locks  of  Medusa,  hence  the  name. 

Edible.      Curtis.     Edible.     Leuba. 

On  elms  at  Haddonfield,  N.  J. ;  on  oaks  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  and  in 
Woodland  Cemetery,  and  on  elms  in  Washington  Square,  Philadelphia, 
Pa.  Mcllvaine. 

Commonly  eaten  in  Italy  and  parts  of  Austria ;  rare  elsewhere  in 
Europe.  Occurring  over  the  United  States.  Specimens  eighteen 
inches  across  were  seen  by  the  writer  in  the  West  Virginia  mountains. 

Mr.  H.  I.  Miller,  Terre  Haute,  Ind.,  sent  me  a  fine  specimen  weigh- 
ing loK  pounds. 

The  American  species,  as  far  as  seen  by  the  writer,  changes  to  a  light 
yellow  when  ageing.  The  entire  fungus  is  edible  and  excellent,  but  the 
tender  spines  and  more  delicate  parts  make  a  dish  equaled  by  few  fungi. 

H.  erina'ceum  Bull. — erinaceus,  a  hedgehog.  2-8  in.  and  more 
across.  Tufts  pendulous.  White  and  yellowish-white  becoming  yel- 
low-brownish, fleshy,  elastic,  tough,  sometimes  emarginate  (broadly 
attached  as  if  tuft  was  cut  in  two,  sliced  off  where  attached),  a  mass  of 
latticed  branches  and  fibrils.  Spines  i  ^-4  in.  long,  crowded,  straight, 
equal,  pendulous.  Stem  sometimes  rudimentary. 

502 


PLATE  CXXXV. 


Photographed  by  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist. 

HYDNUM  CAPUT-MEDUS^E. 


Hydnacese 

. 

On  trunks  of  oak,  beech,  etc.     July  to  October.  Hydnum. 

Spores  subglobose,  5-6ft  diameter  Massee;  white,  plain,  5x6/*  W.  G.S. 

Alabama,  Miss  K.  SkeJian;  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine;  Massachusetts, 
Sprague;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  22. 

Eaten  in  Germany  and  France.     Cooke. 

A  dead  beech  trunk  at  Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  in  August,  1898,  bore  at 
least  fifty  pounds  of  it.  It  draped  one  side  of  the  tree  from  root  to  top 
with  yellowish,  pendulous  tufts,  with  spines  up  to  3  in.  long,  which 
waved  in  the  wind.  The  spines  and  tender  parts  were  stewed,  and  en- 
joyed by  many.  It  shrinks  very  much  in  drying,  becoming  sour. 

A'PUS.      Gr. — without ;  a  foot. 
(Stemless,  dimidiate,  margin  distinct.) 

H.  septentriona'le  Fr. — Northern.  Fleshy-fibrous,  becoming  pale, 
imbricated.  Pilei  not  numerous,  growing  one  above  the  other,  plane, 
behind  thick,  consolidated,  margin  straight,  whole.  Spines  very 
crowded,  slender,  equal. 

The  largest  known  Hydnum. 

Received  from  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J.,  September,  1897. 
The  specimens  formed  part  of  a  dense  fasciculate  mass  weighing  over 
20  pounds,  growing  on  a  beech  stump.  Edges  of  the  young  plant  are 
edible,  but  have  little  taste. 


503 


Hydnaceae 

IRTEX   Fr. 

A  harrow. 

Irpex.  Hymenium  inferior,  toothed  from  the  first.  Teeth  firm,  somewhat 
coriaceous,  acute,  concrete  with  the  pileus,  arranged  in  rows  or  like 
network,  connected  at  the  base  by  folds,  which  are  gill-like  (in  sessile 
species)  or  resemble  honeycomb  (in  resupinate  ones).  Sporophores 
4-spored.  Growing  on  wood,  somewhat  growing  from  the  side  or  upon 
the  back,  approaching  Lenzites  and  Daedaleae. 

Irpex  differs  from  Hydnum  in  having  the  spines  connected  at  the 
base,  and  in  their  being  less  awl-shaped  and  pointed. 

It  is  reported  as  found  well  up  in  the  northern  States,  but  its  species 
prefer  warm  climates.  Irpex  contains  no  choice  species,  but  all  I  have 
tested  can  be  eaten. 

I.  obli'qilUS  Fr. — oblique.  White,  inclining  to  pale,  effused  (spread), 
forming  an  adnate  crust,  circumference  flaxy.  Teeth  extended  from  a 
base  resembling  honeycomb,  compressed,  unequal ',  incised,  oblique,  2—3 
lines  long. 

At  first  abundantly  porous,  but  toothed  from  the  first,  at  length  quite 
as  in  Hydna. 

On  stumps  and  dead  branches.     November  to  February.    Stevenson. 

This  spreads  in  irregular  patches  on  the  surface  of  decaying  wood. 
The  pores  for  a  small  space  round  the  margin  are  round  and  distinct, 
but  toward  the  center  are  greatly  lengthened  out,  lying  one  upon  an- 
other in  an  imbricated  manner.  The  color  is  white  at  first,  when  old  it 
changes  to  a  yellow-brown,  and  at  last  to  a  dirty  fuscous  black.  Bolton. 

At  first  it  looks  more  like  a  small  white  orbicular  resupinate  Poly- 
porus  than  an  Irpex.  Peck. 

The  species  is  common  and  can  be  collected  at  most  times  of  the 
year.  When  fresh  and  moist  it  can  be  shaved  from  its  host  plant. 
Goodly  quantities  can  thus  be  obtained.  It  stews  to  a  firm  gelatinous 
mass  of  pleasant  flavor.  The  lost  hunter  need  not  die  of  starvation  in 
any  woods  if  he  will  but  study  the  tree-growing  fungi,  and  especially 
the  small  species,  hitherto  insignificant  in  food  circles. 

I.  car'neus  Fr. — resembling  the  color  of  flesh.     Reddish,  effused,  I- 

504 


Hydnaceae 

3  in.  long,  cartilaginous-gelatinous,  membranaceous,  adnate.  Teeth 
obtuse  and  awl-shaped,  entire,  united  at  the  base. 

It  inclines  to  Radula  and  Phlebia.     Stevenson. 

On  tulip  poplar,  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  September,  1892;  on  hickory, 
Angora,  Philadelphia,  September,  1897.  Mel  lvalue. 

The  entire  fungus  is  good,  cooking  like  a  Hydnum. 

L  defor'mis  Fr. — deformed.     White,  effused,  crustaceous,  thin,  cir 
cumference  pubescent,  somewhat  flaxy.     Teeth  extended  in  awl-shape 
from  a  minutely  porous  base,  thin,   somewhat  digitato-incised  (cut  in 
finger-shape),  1-2  lines  long.     Fries. 

It  approaches  the  Polypori.      Grows  on  wood.     Stevenson. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Frost. 

Common  on  stumps  and  trees.  The  awl-shaped  teeth,  which  have 
the  appearance  of  shreds,  can  be  scraped  from  the  fresh  plant,  or  if 
dried  plants  are  moistened,  the  teeth  are  detachable,  and  are  food-giving. 

I.  flLSCO-viola'ceus  Fr. — fuscus,  brown;  violaceoiis,  violet.  Pileus 
2  in.  long,  more  than  I  in.  broad,  white  inclining  to  hoary,  effuso- 
reflexed,  coriaceous,  silky,  zoned.  Teeth  in  rows  in  the  form  of  plates, 
brownish-violet,  incised  at  the  apex.  Fries. 

On  pine  trunks.     Stevenson. 

Decaying  trunks  of  spruce,  abies  nigra.  Adirondack  mountains. 
July. 

Our  specimens  are  not  "silky,"  as  required  by  the  description,  but 
villose  or  tomentose-villose  as  in  Polyporus  hirsutus  and  P.  abietinus, 
the  latter  of  which  this  species  closely  resembles.  The  hymenium, 
however,  is  coarser,  more  highly  colored  and  lamellated  to  such  an 
extent  that  young  specimens  might  easily  be  taken  for  a  Lenzites. 
Peck,  30th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Found  in  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  and  elsewhere. 
Mcllvaine. 

Very  common  on  logs  of  coniferous  trees.  It  is  difficult  to  collect  it 
entirely  free  from  resin,  which  as  a  seasoning  is  not  recommended. 


505 


Thelephoraceee 


FAMILY  IV.— THELEPHORA'CE-ffi  Fr. 

Gr. — a  teat;    Gr. — to  bear. 

Sporophore  erect  and  stipitate,  with  a  central  stem,  effused,  with  the 
upper  portion  free  and  bent  backward,  or  entirely  resupinate.  Hyme- 
nilllll  perfectly  even  or  radiately  wrinkled,  glabrous  or  minutely  bristled 
with  projecting  cystidia;  basidia  normally  4-spored.  Spores  without 
a  division,  colorless  or  colored.  Massee. 

In  Thelephoraceae  are  shapes  closely  resembling  those  found  in  Hyd- 
naceae,  Polyporaceae  and  Agaricaceae.  The  genus  Craterellus  is  closely 
allied  to  Cantharellus,  and,  though  the  spore  surface  is  much  less 
wrinkled  or  veined,  resembles  it  in  several  of  its  species.  Other  types 
show  likeness  to  Merulius  in  Polyporaceae ;  others  to  Tremellineae  and 
Clavariaceae.  Many  puzzles  are  presented  by  its  species,  but  the  solv- 
ing is  interesting. 

Though  populous  it  contains  but  few  edibles.  The  best  of  them  is 
Craterellus  cornucopoides. 

SYNOPSIS  OF  GENERA. 

A.     SPORES  COLORED. 
Spores  smooth. 
CONIOPHORA. 

Resupinate,  dry  and  pulverulent.     (No  edible  species  reported.) 

ALDRIDGEA. 
Resupinate,  soft  and  subgelatinous.     (No  edible  species  reported. ) 

Spores  warted  or  echinulate. . 

THELEPHORA. 
Dry  and  fibrous,  hymenium  rugulose.    (No  edible  species  reported.) 

SOPPITTIELLA. 

Subgelatinous,  effused  or  variously  incrusting,  hymenium  even.   (No 

edible  species  reported.) 

506 


Theleph.orace8B 

/ 

B.    SPORES  COLORLESS. 
Parasitic  on  living  leaves  or  stems. 

EXOBASIDIUM. 

Saprophytes    growing   on    dead  wood,  branches,  etc.     Hymenium 
minutely  setulose  with  projecting  cystidia. 

PENIOPHORA. 

Cystidia  colorless,    rough  at  the  tip  with  particles  of  lime.     (No 
edible  species  reported.) 

HYMENOCH^TE. 
Cystidia  brown,  smooth.      (No  edible  species  reported.) 

Hymenium  glabrous. 

CORTICIUM. 

Entirely  resupinate,    hymenium   usually    cracked   when   dry.     (No 
edible  species  reported.) 

STEREUM. 

Effuso-reflexed,    pileus    silky    or   strigose,    hymenium    even.     (No 
edible  species  reported.) 

CLADODERRIS. 

Horizontal  and  attached  by  a  narrow  point  behind,  hymenium  radiato- 
rugulose.      (No  edible  species  reported.) 

CRATERELLUS  .    Page  5  08 . 
Large,  erect,  funnel-shaped. 

CYPHELLA. 
Minute,  cup-shaped,  mouth  open.      (No  edible  species  reported.) 

SOLENIA. 

Minute,   cylindrical,   gregarious  or  crowded,    tubular,    mouth    con- 
tracted.     (No  edible  species  reported.) 

507 


Thelephoracesa 

CRATEREL'LUS  Fr. 

Crater,  a  bowl. 

Cratereiius.  Hymenium  waxy-membranaceous,  distinct  but  adnate  to  the  hymeno- 
phore,  inferior,  continuous,  smooth,  even  or  wrinkled.  Spores  white. 
Fries. 

This,  the  only  genus  of  Thelephoracese  containing  edible  fungi,  has 
the  form  and  general  appearance  of  Cantharellus  to  which  it  is  allied, 
but  it  is  distinguished  by  its  nearly  even  hymenium,  which  in  Canthar- 
ellus has  the  form  of  gills,  fold-like  and  thick  but  still  distinctly  gills. 
The  species  vary  from  fleshy  to  membranaceous,  all  having  a  funnel- 
shaped  pileus  and  stem  merging  into  it.  On  the  ground.  Autumn. 
The  slightly  veined  surface  where  the  spores  are  borne,  and  the  spores 
themselves,  when  a  microscope  is  brought  to  bear  upon  them,  distin- 
guish this  genus  from  Cantharellus;  and  its  thin  flesh  and  funnel-shape 
from  the  large  forms  of  Pistillaria.  Several  of  the  species  are  edible. 
It  is  probable  that  all  are. 

Toadstools,  despite  their  name,  are  more  popularly  associated  with 
fairies  than  with  toads.  "Fairy  rings,"  "Fairy  Bread"  and  "Fairy 
Clubs"  are  titles  belonging  to  them,  and  these  link  us  to  the  pretty  be- 
lief of  childhood — a  belief  we  often  do  not  outgrow.  A  group  of  C. 
lutescens  or  C.  cornucopoides  may  well  be  likened  to  fairy  trumpets, 
or  to  a  tiny  orchestrion  thrusting  its  horns  through  wood  earth  where 
roots  of  stumps  abound. 

C.  Cantharellus  Schw.      (Plate    XLVI,    fig.   3.)      Cap   1-3  in. 

across,  convex,  often  becoming  depressed  and  funnel-shaped,  glabrous, 
yellowish  or  pinkish-yellow.  Flesh  white,  tough,  elastic.  Hymenium 
slightly  wrinkled,  yellow  or  faint  salmon  color.  Stem  1-3  in.  high, 
3—5  lines  thick,  glabrous,  solid,  yellow.  Spores  on  white  paper  yel- 
lowish or  pale  salmon. 

Spores  7.5-10x5-6^  Peck. 

West  Virginia,  Mcllvaine. 

No  one  not  looking  for  minute  botanic  details  would  separate  this 
species  from  Cantharellus  cibarius,  especially  if  found  growing  near  or 
with  it.  The  pinkish  tinge  sometimes  present  in  C.  Cantharellus  I  have 
never  observed  in  C.  cibarius.  The  present  species  is  of  equal  excel- 
lence. 

508 


PLATE  CXXXVI. 


Thelephoraceae 

C.  COrmiCOpoi'des  Pers. — cornu  and  copies,  horn  of  plenty.  (Plate  Cratereiius. 
CXXXVI,  fig.  8,  p.  508.)  Cap  dark  sooty  shades  of  gray  or  brown 
— shades  of  well-worn  velveteen — 1-2  in.  across,  whole  plant  from  2-4 
in.  high,  trumpet-shaped,  or  like  a  funnel  with  its  open  mouth,  plane, 
wavy,  split  or  in  folds.  Substance  very  thin  and  either  brittle  or  tough. 
The  inside  is  sometimes  minutely  scaly,  the  opening  extending  to  the 
base;  outside,  where  the  spores  are  borne,  it  has  neither  gills,  pores  nor 
protuberances,  but  a  slightly  uneven  surface  varying  little  in  color. 
Stem  obsolete  or  seldom  noticeable.  Odor  slight. 

Spores  pointed,  1 1-12x7-8/4  Massee. 

Grows  single,  clustered  or  in  troops  along  shaded  roads,  or  from  leaf 
mold  and  ground  in  woods.  July  to  frost. 

Large  patches,  clustered,  grow  near  stumps  in  moist  places  on  Bo- 
tanic Creek,  West  Philadelphia.  It  is  plentiful  near  Haddonfield,  N. 
J.,  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  and  many  other  places  in  the  United  States. 

It  is  not  pleasant  to  look  upon,  because  of  its  peculiar  color,  but 
when  one  gets  used  to  it  it  has  an  attractiveness  of  its  own.  Its  graceful 
shape,  even  its  funereal  hue  and  name — Trompet  du  Morte — are  alluring. 

It  dries  well,  and  when  moistened  expands  to  its  normal  size.  It  is 
a  first-class  edible  fungus.  It  should  be  stewed  slowly  until  tender. 

C.  clava'tus  Fr. — clava,  a  club.  Pileus  2  in.  broad,  somewhat  light- 
yellowish,  fleshy,  top-shape,  truncate  or  depressed,  flexuous,  unpolished, 
attenuated  into  the  solid  stem.  Flesh  thick,  white.  Hymenium  even, 
then  corrugated,  purplish  then  changing  color.  Fries. 

Spores  elliptical,  pale-yellow,  10- 12x4-5^  Massee. 

Professor  Peck  notes  that  the  species  so  closely  resembles Cantharellus 
cibarius  that  it  might  easily  be  mistaken  for  a  deformed  condition  of  it. 

The  resemblance  to  the  yellow  forms  of  Clavaria  pistillaria  is  marked. 

Massachusetts,  Sprague,  Farlow ;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  32;  West 
Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

An  excellent  species.      Its  scarcity  is  regrettable. 

C.  du'bius  Pk.  Pileus  infundibuliform,  subfibrillose,  lurid-brown, 
pervious  to  the  base,  the  margin  generally  wavy  and  lobed.  Hymenium 
dark  cinereous,  rugose  when  moist,  the  minute  crowded  irregular  folds 
abundantly  anastomosing,  nearly  even  when  dry.  Stem  short.  Spores 
broadly  elliptical  or  subglobose,  6-7.5/4  long. 

509 


Thelephoraceae 

Cratereiius.       Plant  simple  or  cespitose,  2~3  in.  high.     PileilS  1-2  in.  broad. 

Ground  under  spruce  trees.     Adirondack  mountains.     August. 

In  color  this  species  bears  some  resemblance  to  Cantharellus  cinereus. 
From  Cratereiius  sinuosus  it  is  separated  by  its  pervious  stem,  and  from 
C.  cornucopoides  by  its  more  cespitose  habit,  paler  color  and  smaller 
spores.  Peck,  3ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

Its  edible  qualities  are  in  every  way  equal  to  those  of  C.  cornuco- 
poides. 

C.  Sinuo'sus  Fr. — sinus,  a  curve.  Strong  scented.  Pileus  funnel- 
shaped,  downy,  grayish-brown,  margin  undulated.  Stem  pale  yellow, 
elongated,  stuffed.  Hymenium  with  anastomosing  ribs,  grayish. 
Spores  elliptical,  pale  yellow,  8-9x5/4. 

In  woods,  Pileus  K  — i  in.  high  and  broad.  Stem  about  I  in.  high, 
sometimes  very  short.  Smell  strong,  musky.  Hymenium  becoming 
tan-color  when  dry.  Pileus  more  or  less  villose.  Massee. 

The  above  description  is  given  so  that  Var.  crispus  which  follows 
may  be  compared  with  it.  Fries  considered  var.  crispus  a  good  species. 

Var.  crispus — crispus,  curled.  (Plate  CXXXVI,  fig.  7,  p.  508.) 
Margin  of  hymenium  sinuous  and  crisped.  Pileus  pervious.  Stem 
stuffed  at  base  only.  Hymenium  almost  even.  Massee. 

Solitary  and  cespitose  in  mixed  woods. 

Found  by  Dr.  S.  C.  Schmucker  near  West  Chester,  Pa.,  1896;  Wm. 
H.  Rarer,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  August,  1897. 

Cap  varies  in  color  from  dark  to  light  brownish-gray.  Gills  brown- 
ish-gray, almost  even.  Stem  hollow,  dark  yellow.  Smell  strong, 
musky,  much  like  A.  silvicola. 

Substance  tender  and  of  markedly  high  and  pleasant  flavor. 


Clavariaceee 


FAMILY  V.— CLAVARIA'CEJE. 

Hymenium  not  distinct  from  the  hymenophore,  covering  entire  outer 
surface.  Somewhat  fleshy,  not  coriaceous,  vertical,  simple  or  branched. 
Fries. 

For  the  most  part  growing  upon  the  ground. 

In  this  family  there  is  no  separation  into  stem  and  pileus,  with  the 
spore-bearing  surface  restricted  to  gills  or  tubes,  but  the  substance  of 
the  plant  is  continuous,  and  the  spores  are  produced  on  the  clubs  or 
branches. 

But  three  genera — Clavaria,  Sparassis  and  Pistillaria — include  species 
of  food  value.  They  are  easily  recognized. 

The  genus  Calcocera  resembles  Clavaria  in  form,  but  is  very  different 
in  material,  being  a  jelly-like  viscid,  cartilaginous  substance,  horny 
when  dry,  resembling  that  of  Tremella. 

SYNOPSIS  OF  GENERA. 

SPARASSIS.     Page  5 12. 
Very  much  branched,  branches  compressed,  plate-like,  crisped. 

TYPHULA. 
Simple  or  club-shaped,  with  a  thread-like  stem. 

CLAVARIA  .     Page  513. 

Fleshy,  simple  or  branched,  branches  typically  round,  some  forms 
club-shaped. 

PISTILLARIA. 

Club-shaped,  simple,  rigid  when  dry;   usually  minute. 

PTERULA. 

Branches  numerous,  slender,  forming  a  tuft,  or  single,  leathery,  round 
or  compressed. 


'Clavariace® 

SPARAS'SIS  Fr. 

Gr. — to  tear  in  pieces. 

Sparassis.  Fleshy,  branched,  with  flat  leaf-like  branches,  composed  of  two  plates, 
fertile  on  both  sides,  with  four-spored  sporophores.  Fries. 

Very  beautiful  plants  of  striking  appearance. 

Unfortunately  they  are  not  common,  although  they  generally  occur 
yearly  in  the  same  locality. 

S.  Herb'stii  Pk.  Plants  much  branched,  forming  tufts  4-5  in.  high 
and  5—6  in.  broad,  whitish,  inclining  to  creamy-yellow,  tough,  moist, 
the  branches  numerous,  thin,  flattened,  concrescent,  dilated  above  and 
spatulate  or  fan-shaped,  often  somewhat  longitudinally  curved  or  wavy, 
mostly  uniformly  colored,  rarely  with  a  few  indistinct,  nearly  concolor- 
ous,  transverse  zones  near  the  broad,  entire  apices. 

Spores  subglobose  or  broadly  elliptical,  5-6x4-5^1. 

Trexlertown.     August. 

Closely  allied  to  S.  spathulata  Schw.,  but  differs  in  its  paler  color 
with  no  rufescent  hues,  more  branching  habit  and  absence  of  any  dis- 
tinct zones. 

Four  specimens  were  found  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  during  August,  1898. 
These  were  not  as  symmetrical  as  S.  crispa,  which  they  closely  resem- 
bled in  fold  and  texture.  They  were  of  equal  excellence  cooked. 

S.  lamino'sa  Fr. — a  thin  plate.  Base  branching,  straw-color. 
Branches  erect,  crowded,  growing  together,  straight  at  the  top,  zone- 
less,  entire. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis.     On  oak  log. 

Edible,  Curtis.      "Deliciosa,"  Fries. 

S.  cris'pa  ^r.—crispus,  curly.  (Plate  CXXXVII.)  Height  3-12 
in.,  width  4-24  in.  Tufts  very  handsome,  whitish,  oyster  color  or  pale- 
yellow,  very  much  branched.  Branches  flat,  leaf-like.  Spore  surface 
on  both  sides,  sometimes  crimped  on  edges.  Compacted  into  a  round 
mass,  ending  below  in  a  solid  rooting  base. 

Spores  pale-ochraceous,  5-6x3-4/4  Massee. 

Very  variable  in  size.  On  ground  in  woods  and  grassy  places  in 
open  woods.  Summer,  autumn. 

512 


PLATE  CXXXVII. 


00 

-o 

> 

JO 

> 
00 

00 
00 

O 

52 

00 

-o 


Clavariaceae 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania, 
Mcllvaine. 

Have  seen  it  2  ft.  across.      "  Delicosissima."     Fries. 

A  perfect  specimen  of  S.  crispa  resembles  a  huge  rosette,  round  and 
many-folded  in  tortuous  design.  The  folds  are  wide,  flattened  branches 
springing  from  a  common  base,  thin,  semi-transparent,  not  unlike  damp 
sheets  of  gelatine  although  thicker.  Surfaces  of  the  leaves  are  dull,  like 
the  flattened  seaweeds  and  the  light-colored  sea-rock  mosses.  S.  crispa 
may  be  easily  dried,  and  though  shrinking  much  in  size,  retains  its 
shape,  forming  a  very  pretty  ornament  for  the  desk  of  the  mycologist. 
It  is  not  common.  Where  it  has  chosen  a  habitat  several  tufts  may  be 
found  during  the  moderate  season.  The  writer  found  three  specimens 
ranging  from  6-12  in.  in  diameter  near  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  others,  not 
as  large,  in  West  Virginia  and  in  Chester  county,  Pa. 

It  has  long  been  known  as  edible.  It  makes  an  ever-to-be-remem- 
bered dish. 


CLAVA'RIA  L. 

Clava,  a  club. 

Fleshy,  branched  or  simple,  somewhat  round,  without  a  distinct  stem,  ciavaria. 
Hymenium  continuous,  dry,  homogeneous.     For  the,  most  part  growing 
mi  ground.     Fries. 

The  members  of  this  genus  vary  greatly  in  form,  which  in  some  is 
that  of  a  club  growing  singly  or  cespitose,  while  others  present  a  more 
or  less  bush-like  appearance,  being  slightly  or  excessively  branched. 

The  color  of  the  plant  covers  a  wide  range,  as  it  may  be  white,  red, 
yellow,  violet  or  their  various  shades,  and  to  be  in  harmony  the  spores 
do  not  confine  themselves  to  one  color,  but  are  white,  ochraceous  or 
cinnamon.  In  cases  where  the  plant  is  not  otherwise  well  defined  the 
spore  colors  will  be  found  a  valuable  aid  in  placing  it. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 
RAMARIA  (ramus,  a  branch).     Page  514. 
Branched,  branches  attenuated  upward. 

A.    SPORES  WHITE  OR  PALLID. 
*  Plant,  color  bright,  red,  yellow  or  violet. 
**  Plant  white,  gray  or  yellowish. 
33  513 


Clavariaceee 

B.    SPORES  OCHRACEOUS  OR  CINNAMON. 

Clavaria.       *  Plant  yellow  or  dingy  ochraceous. 
**  Growing  on  wood. 

SYNCORYNE  ( Gr. — together;  a  club).     Page  523. 
Clubs  almost  simple,  tufted  at  the  base. 

HOLOCORYNE  (Gr. — entire;  a  club).     Page  524. 
Clubs  almost  simple,  distinct  at  the  base. 

.  Excepting  to  toadstool  hunters  the  Clavaria,  though  numerous,  are 
not  known  to  those  who  "Know  a  toadstool  when  they  see  it."  They 
bear  no  semblance  to  the  stereotyped  toadstool.  They  seem  to  possess 
an  imitative  faculty.  Those  growing  among  grasses  harmonize  with 
the  faded  stalks  under  debris  or  the  bleached  surfaces  of  blades  famish- 
ing for  sunlight ;  those  of  the  woods  take  on  the  color  of  the  leaf  mat  or 
of  the  lichens,  and  shapes  of  club  and  deer-horn  mosses,  or  assemble  in 
groves  as  pigmy  trees,  boled  and  sturdy-branched  in  mimicry  of  their 
giant  protectors  towering  above  them.  In  their  forms  many  are  deli- 
cate, graceful,  beautiful,  others  are  intricate.  There  is  fascination  for 
eye  and  brain  in  looking  through  the  vistas  and  labyrinths  of  their 
branches. 

A  few  species  are  tough  as  shoe-strings;  a  few  bitter;  one,  C.  dicho- 
toma,  on  the  authority  of  Leuba,  contains  a  minor  poison.  The  genus 
is  plentiful  and  reliable.  Many  individuals  are  of  marked  excellence. 
In  soups,  stews,  patties,  they  remind  one  of  noodles;  sometimes  of 
macaroni.  The  hard  parts  of  the  stem  should  be  removed,  the  branches 
broken  or  cut  in  %  in.  lengths.  If  stewed,  they  require  time  and  slow 
cooking;  if  fried  in  butter  they  are  crisp,  choice  bits. 

RAMA'RIA — ramus,  a  branch. 
Branched,  branches  attenuated  upward. 

A.     SPORES  WHITE  OR  PALLID. 
*  Plant,  color  bright,  red,  yellow  or  violet. 

C.  fla'va  Schaeff. — yellow.  Fragile,  trunk  thick,  fleshy,  white,  very 
much  branched.  Branches  even,  round,  fastigiate,  obtuse,  yellow. 
Fries. 

5H 


PLATE    CXXXVIII. 


Grouped  by  F.  D.  Briscoe  —  Studies  by  C.  Mcllvaine. 


Fro.  PAGE.       FIG.  PAGE 

1.  CLAVARIA  FUSIFORMIS,  523  3.    CLAVARIA  PISTILLARIS  (DARK  VAR.),  524 

2.  CLAVAHIA  PISTILLARIS  (YELLOW  VAR.).  524 


Clavariaceee 

Height  2-4  in.,  2-4  in.  across;   pale-yellow,   dingy-yellow.      Stem  ciavana. 
or    trunk    short,    robust,    whitish.     Branches    very   numerous,    dense, 
fragile,  erect,  straight,  lighter  than  the  yellow  tips  (fading  with  age) 
which   are    toothed.     Flesh  white.      Spores  white.     Taste   and   odor 
pleasant. 

Woods  and  open  places.     June  to  frost. 

Indiana,  H,  I.  Miller;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania, 
Mcllvaine. 

The  C.  fiava  and  C.  botrytes  have  long  been  noted  edible  species, 
liberally  commended  abroad  and  in  the  United  States.  Variations  in 
their  structure  are  interchangeable ;  variations  in  their  quality  are  due 
to  environment.  There  is  a  slight  difference  in  the  measurement  of 
their  spores,  but  the  difference  is  not  so  great  as  between  spores  of  the 
same  specimen.  Specific  differences  may  exhibit  themselves  in  young 
plants,  yet  disappear  with  age. 

Plants  for  the  table  should  be  young  and  fresh.  When  aged  or  when 
the  ravages  of  insects  appear,  they  should  not  be  used,  as  they  then 
have  an  unpleasant  taste  which  will  effect  a  whole  dish. 

They  should  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  stewed  slowly  for  fully  thirty 
minutes.  They  can  be  seasoned  and  eaten  as  a  stew  or  made  into 
patties. 

C.  botry'tes  Pers.  Gr. — a  cluster  of  grapes  (from  shape).  Height 
3—4  in.,  3—6  in.  across,  white,  yellow,  pinkish,  dingy  in  shades  of  these 
colors.  Base  thick,  short,  fleshy,  unequal.  Branches  many,  swollen, 
thick,  crowded,  unequal,  enlarged  at  the  ends  and  divided  into  several 
small  branchlets  which  are  sometimes  reddish  at  tips.  Flesh  white. 

Spores  ellipsoid,  sub-transparent,  white,  8x5/4  Massee, 

On  wood  earth.      Common. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  24;   West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Mcllvaine. 

A  general  favorite  and  highly  esteemed  in  Europe.      Edible.     Curtis. 

"When  old  the  branches  both  of  this  species  and  of  C.  flava  become 
elongated,  obtuse,  very  fragile,  and  of  a  uniform  color.  The  yellow 
tips  of  the  latter  and  the  red  ones  of  the  former  species  wholly  dis- 
appear." Peck,  32d  Rep. 

Excepting  when  young  (not  always  then)  the  red  tips  to  the  branch- 
lets  can  not  be  relied  upon  as  distinctive  features  of  this  species.  The 
place  of  its  growth  and  the  character  of  the  soil  have  very  much  to  do 

515 


Clavariacese 

ciavaria.  with  its  size,  and  the  color  and  quality  of  its  flesh.  A  well-shaded  thin- 
soiled  spot  will,  after  a  rain,  grow  pale,  spindling,  tender  bunches, 
having  but  a  tinge  of  red  upon  the  points;  perhaps  not  any.  A  rich, 
better  lighted  spot  will  produce  more  robust  and  highly  colored  plants. 
The  same  can  be  said  of  C.  flava.  C.  botrytes  is  plentiful  in  Pennsyl- 
vania, New  Jersey,  West  Virginia  and  like  latitudes.  It  must  be  well 
cooked. 

C.  amethys'tina  Bull. — amethyst  in  color.  (Plate  CXXXIX,  fig.  i, 
p.  516.)  Height  ^—3  in.  Color  violet,  very  much  branched  or  al- 
most simple.  Branches  round,  even,  fragile,  smooth,  obtuse,  known 
by  its  color. 

Spores  elliptical,  pale  ochraceous,  sub- transparent,  10-12x6-7/1, 
Massee. 

Common  in  open  woods  and  grassy  places. 

New  York,  Peck  3Oth  Rep.  ;  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jer- 
sey, Mcllvaine.  August,  September. 

Eaten  in  Europe,  and  by  some  preferred  to  any  other. 

A  handsome  species,  very  brittle,  and  though  large,  delicate. 

C.  fastigia'ta — fastigium,  the  top.  Height  1-2  in.,  tufted,  yellow. 
Branches  numerous,  flexible,  tough,  equal,  fastigiate  (branches  point- 
ing upward),  sometimes  short  and  simple,  when  higher  very  much 
branched. 

Spores  white,  irregularly  globose,  4-6/4  Massee. 

In  pastures  and  grassy  places,  during  warm  months. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  California,  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Penn- 
sylvania, Mcllvaine. 

Commonly  eaten  throughout  Europe.  In  Germany  they  call  it 
Ziegenbart — goat's  beard. 

This  is  one  of  the  species  that  has  to  be  looked  for.  Grass  tufts  hide 
it.  Its  yellowish  stools  are  not  unlike  them  in  color.  It  is  freely  found, 
and,  though  not  of  the  best,  well  rewards  the  seeker. 

C.  niUSCOi'des — muscus,  moss.  Height  i-iK  in.,  slightly  tufted, 
yellow.  Stem  slender,  tomentose  at  base,  becoming  two  or  three  times 
forked.  Branchlets  thin,  tapering,  crescent-shaped,  acute. 

Spores  white,  subglobose,  5-6/n  Massee. 

In  pastures. 

516 


PI,ATI<:   (  XXX  IX 


» 

o  3;  r. 


Clavariaceee 

. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,   Curtis;  Ohio;   New  York,  Peck,  4/th  ciavaria. 
Rep. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

C.  Her'veyi  Pk.  Gregarious  or  subcespitose,  simple  or  with  a  few 
branches,  often  compressed  or  irregular,  scarcely  i  in.  high,  golden- 
yellow,  sometimes  brownish  at  the  apex.  Flesh  white.  Branches 
when  present,  short,  simple  or  terminating  in  few  or  many  more  or  less 
acute  denticles.  Spores  globose,  7-5/A  broad,  minutely  roughened; 
mycelium  white. 

Ground  under  hemlock  trees.  Orono,  Me.  September.  F.  L. 
Hcrvey. 

Allied  to  C.  fastigiata  and  C.  muscoides,  but  distinct  from  both  by 
its  more  irregular  and  less  branching  character  and  by  its  larger  spores. 
Peck,  45th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Near  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  August,  1890,  among  scrub  pines  and 
spruce.  A  pretty  species  of  medium  flavor. 

*  Plant  white,  gray  or  yellowish. 

C.  COralloi'des  Linn.  Height  2—4  in.,  usually  tufted,  growing  into 
each  other,  white.  Trunk  thick,  short,  much  branched.  Branches 
repeatedly  forked,  compressed,  hollow  within,  fragile,  dilated  upward, 
tips  crowded  acute. 

Occasionally  the  branches  do  not  develop  entirely  and  are  obtuse ; 
they  then  somewhat  resemble  in  shape  C.  rugosa,  but  are  not  wrinkled. 

Spores  pale-ochraceous,  pointed,  iox8/*  Massee. 

Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller ;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania, 
Mcllvaine. 

A  common  edible  species  in  Europe.      Common  in  United  States. 

The  writer  has  eaten  it  for  many  years.  It  is  not  always  tender.  It 
should  be  young,  fresh,  and  the  branches  alone  cooked.  It  requires 
slow,  patient  cooking  if  at  all  old.  It  does  dry  well,  as  stated  by  some 
writers,  but  it  does  not  wet  well  again. 

C.  cine'rea  Bull. — cinis,  ashes.  (Plate  CXL.)  Height  1-3  in., 
gregarious  or  tufted,  sometimes  in  rows.  Gray.  Stem  either  thin  or 
thick,  short,  lighter  than  branches.  Branches  very  numerous  com- 

517 


Clavariaceae 


CLAVARIA  CINEREA. 
Two-thirds    natural    size. 


Clavaria.  (Plate  CXL.)  pressed,  wrinkled,   irregular,    some- 

what obtuse  or  flattened  and  divided 
into  slender  points. 

Its  gray  color  easily  distinguishes 
it  from  others.  It  is  variable  in  its 
mode  of  growth  and  in  its  shape. 

On  ground  in  woods.  Common. 
June  to  frost. 

Eatable,  but  injurious  in  quantities. 
Cordier.  Edible,  but  provokes  in- 
digestion in  delicate  stomachs. 
Leuba. 

Eaten  generally  in  Europe.  In 
France  it  is  called  pied  de  cog. 

Plentiful  in  United  States,  in  mixed  woods.     June  to  frost. 
The  writer  and  his  friends  have  eaten  it  for  fifteen  years,  and  know 
of  no  Clavaria  equalling  it. 

C.  tetrago'na  Schw. — Four-angled.  Very  fragile,  deep  orange-yel- 
low, twice  forked.  Stem  and  branches  quadrangular,  1-1^2  in.  tall. 

Moist  shady  places. 

New  York.  Ground  in  shaded  places.  August  and  September. 
Poughkeepsie,  Gerard,  Peck,  24th  Rep. ;  North  Carolina,  Schweinitz, 
Curtis;  Pennsylvania,  Schweinits. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

C.  crista'ta  Pers. — crista,  a  crest.  (Plate  CXLI,  p.  518.)  Height 
1-5  in.,  whitish,  tufts  of  broad  flattened  branches  cut  on  margins  or 
crested.  Base  short,  stout.  Branches  numerous,  irregular,  flattened 
upward  and  divided  like  moose  horns,  tough,  stuffed,  dingy.  This  pe- 
culiarity distinguishes  it  and  separates  it  from  C.  coralloides. 

Spores  pale  ochraceous,  pointed,  iox8/>i  Massee. 

Woods.  Common.  Summer  and  autumn.  Indiana,  H.  I.  Miller; 
West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Curtis. 

After  a  summer  rain  the  crested  Clavaria  is  usually  abundant  where 
there  is  good  encouragement  of  mossy  beds  or  mats  of  rich  wood-soil 
in  woods  where  leaves  and  mold  accumulate.  It  is  not  as  tender  as 

518 


PLATE  CXLI. 


Clavariaceee 

many  other  species,  but  chopped  fine  and  stewed  slowly  for  an  hour  it 
will  be  eaten  with  enjoyment. 

C.  rugo'sa  Bull. — ruga,  a  wrinkle.  White  or  dingy,  simple  or  tufted, 
2-4  in.  high,  branched  from  the  base  with  irregular  blunt  branches 
wrinkled  lengthwise,  sometimes  thickened  upward. 

Distinguished  by  the  distinct,  irregular,  longitudinal  wrinkles. 

Spores  white,  irregularly  globose,  8—  IO/M  Massee, 

In  woods,  solitary  or  gregarious.     August  to  November. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis.      Pennsylvania,  Ohio. 

It  is  reported  edible  by  Dr.  Curtis,  M.  C.  Cooke  and  Dr.  Badham. 

C.  pyxida'ta  Pers. — pyxis,  a  small  box.  Tufted,  light  tan-color, 
shaded  with  red,  1—3  in.  high.  Stem  or  trunk  thin,  smooth,  variable 
in  length,  dividing  into  many  erect  forked  branches,  which  are  cup- 
shaped  at  the  tips.  The  margins  of  these  tips  have  slender  branchlets 
issuing  from  them  (proliforme). 

Distinguished  by  the  cup-like  tips.     Spores  white,  4x3/4  Massee. 

On  rotten  wood,  on  rotten  roots  in  ground.  June  and  into  the 
autumn. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

Specimen  sent  by  writer  to  Prof.  Peck,  June,  1897,  and  identified  by 
him.  Not  tested  by  writer,  but  is  in  Dr.  Curtis'  list  of  edible  species. 

C.  subtil'is  Pers.  Scattered,  slender,  subtenaceous,  pallid-white, 
bases  smooth  and  of  equal  thickness,  branches  few,  forked,  subfastigi- 
ate. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Pennsylvania. 

Edible.     Curtis. 

C.  den'sa  Pk.  Tufts  2-4  in.  high,  nearly  as  broad,  whitish  or 
creamy-yellow,  branching  from  the  base.  Branches  very  numerous, 
nearly  parallel,  crowded,  terete,  somewhat  wrinkled  when  dry,  the  tips 
dentate,  concolorous.  Spores  slightly  colored,  elliptical,  7.5-10x5-8.5^. 

Ground  in  woods.      Selkirk.     August. 

Apparently  closely  allied  to  C.  condensata,  but  differing  decidedly  in 
color.  Peck,  4ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Specimens  identified  by  Professor  Peck. 

519 


Clavariacese 

Ciavaria.       Large  masses  of  it  grew  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  July,  August  and  Sep- 
tember, 1898,  in  mixed  woods. 

Brittle ;  when  young  it  is  very  compact.  It  is  without  much  flavor, 
but  stews  tender  and  makes  a  good  dish. 

B.    SPORES  OCHRACEOUS  OR  CINNAMON. 
*  Plant  yellow  or  dingy  ochraceous. 

C.  au'rea  Schaeff. — aurum,  gold.  (Plate  CXXXIX,  fig.  2,  p.  516.) 
Trunk  thick,  elastic,  pallid.  Flesh  white,  dividing  into  numerous  thick 
branches  that  become  repeatedly  divided  in  a  dichotomous  manner 
upward,  and  terminate  in  slender,  erect,  round,  yellow  branchlets. 
Spores  pale  ochraceous,  elliptical,  io-iix5-6u. 

In  woods.  Forming  large  tufts  2-3  in.  high,  colorless  or  almost  so 
below,  tips  yellow.  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Ohio,  Alabama.  Found  in  West  Virginia, 
1882;  Devon,  Angora,  Eagle's  Mere,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.;  Haddonfield, 
N.  J.  August  and  September.  Mcllvaine. 

Eaten  in  Europe.      Edible.      Curtis. 

In  structure  it  reminds  one  of  a  miniature  cropped  Lombardy  poplar. 
The  color  is  not  bright,  but  dingy-yellow.  Resembles  C.  flava;  dis- 
tinguished by  different  color  of  spores.  The  branches  (not  stem)  are 
tender  and  good. 

Var.  rufes'cens  Schaeff. 

This  plant  occurs  after  heavy  rains.  It  sometimes  grows  in  continu- 
ous rows  several  feet  in  extent.  The  pinkish-red  tips  of  the  branches 
fade  with  age.  The  axils  are  rounded  and  the  plant  is  quite  fragile. 
Fries  considers  it  a  variety  of  C.  aurea.  Peck,  2 5th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State 
Bot. 

Found  at  Springton,  Chester  county,  Pa.,  August,  1887.  It  is 
edible  and  good.  The  plant  is  tender  and  easily  cooked. 

C.  formo'sa  Pers. — formosus,  finely  formed.  (Plate  CXXXIX,  fig. 
3,  p.  416.)  Height  2-4  in.  Trunk  I  in.  and  more  thick,  whitish  or 
yellowish,  elastic.  Branches  numerous,  crowded,  elongated,  divided 
at  ends  into  yellow  branchlets  which  are  thin,  straight,  obtuse  or 
toothed. 

Spores  ochraceous  9x3-4^  Massee;  elongated,  oval,  rough,   i6x8/x 

W.G.& 

520 


Clavariacese 

On  ground  in  woods,  in  large  tufts,  frequently  in  rows  several  feet  ciavana. 
long. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Ctirtis;  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  Mc- 
ILvaine. 

Esteemed  in  Europe.     Edible.     Dr.  Curtis. 

Common  in  the  United  States  in  woods.  Variable.  An  orange-rose 
color  is  sometimes  prominent  on  the  tips.  The  tenderer  portions  of  the 
plant  are  excellent,  but  must  be  well  cooked. 

C.  spinulo'sa  Pers. — spined.  Height  2-3  in.  high.  Stem  >6-i  in. 
thick.  Trunk  stout,  short,  whitish.  Branches  numerous,  crowded, 
erect,  tense,  elongated,  tapering  upward.  Color  cinnamon-brown  or 
darker. 

Spores  ochraceous,  elliptical,  I  i-i  3x5-6^  Massee. 

On  ground  in  pine  woods.     August  to  October. 

New  York,  Peck,  24th  Rep. ;  New  Jersey,  Sterling;  Pennsylvania, 
Mcllvaine. 

Of  same  edible  quality  as  C.  aurea,  which  it  resembles,  excepting 
that  it  is  darker  and  less  abrupt  in  the  ending  of  its  clusters. 

C.  flac'cida  Fr. — flaccidus,  flaccid.  Height  1-3  in.,  bright  ochrace- 
ous, slender.  Stem  short,  smooth,  sometimes  wanting,  thin,  1—2  lines 
thick,  repeatedly  branched.  Branches  crowded,  unequal,  flaccid, 
upper  ones  forcep-shaped,  pointed.  Does  not  turn  green  when  bruised 
like  C.  abietina.  The  whitish  mycelium  creeps  over  the  leaves  on 
which  it  grows.  Brittle,  tender,  flesh  white. 

Spores  ochraceous,  broadly  elliptical  4-5x3^  K. 

Received  from  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J. 

Two  specimens  eaten.  These  were  quite  dry.  After  soaking  they 
were  tender  and  had  good  flavor. 

C.  cir'cinans  Pk. — circino,  to  make  round.  (Plate  CXLII.)  Stem 
short,  solid,  dichotomously  or  subverticillately  branched.  Branches 
slightly  diverging  or  nearly  parallel,  nearly  equal  in  length,  the  ultimate 
ones  terminating  in  two  or  more  short  acute  concolorous  ramuli. 
Spores  ochraceous. 

Plant  1-2  in.  high,  obconic  in  outline,  flat-topped,  appearing  almost 

521 


Clavariaceee 
Havana.          (Plate  CXLII.) 


as  if  truncated,  pallid  or  almost  whitish  in  color, 
generally  growing  in  imperfect  circles  or  curved 
lines. 

Under  spruce  and  balsam  trees.  Adirondack 
mountains.  August.  Peck,  39th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Where  pines  have  grown,  but  where  now  oak 
and  chestnut  trees  make  rather  open  woods,  it 
grows  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.  A  stumpy  fungus  im- 
pressing one  as  stunted.  Its  texture  is  solid. 
It  does  not  cook  tender,  but  yields  a  fungus 
flavor  to  the  cooking  medium. 

**  Growing  on  wood. 


CLAVARIA  CIRCINANS. 
(After  Peck.) 


C.  stric'ta  Pers. —  stringo,  to  draw  tight. 
Height  2-3  in.  Color  pale  dull-yellow  becom- 
ing brown  when  bruised.  Stem  distinct,  thick,  short.  Branches  numer- 
ous, repeatedly  forked,  straight,  closely  pressed,  tips  pointed. 

Spores  dark  cinnamon,  Fries;  creamy  yellow  4x6/4  W.G.S. 

Var.  fumida.  The  whole  plant  is  a  dingy,  smoky-brownish  hue, 
otherwise  of  the  typical  form.  Catskill  mountains.  September.  In 
the  fresh  state  the  specimens  appear  very  unlike  the  ordinary  form,  but 
in  the  dried  state  they  are  scarcely  to  be  distinguished.  Peck,  4ist 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Eaten  in  Germany. 

This  form  occurs  in  West  Virginia  mountains  and  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa., 
Trenton,  N.  J.,  in  August  and  September,  among  leaves  in  mixed 
woods.  It  compares  favorably  with  the  ordinary  run  of  Clavaria. 

C.  dicho'toma  God. — dividing  by  pairs.  Cespitose,  white;  branches 
regularly  dividing  by  pairs,  elongated,  flexuous,  diverging,  somewhat 
compressed,  extremities  obtuse,  rounded  at  or  just  below  the  apex 
broadly  compressed. 

On  the  ground,  under  beeches. 

"Notwithstanding  its  beauty  this  is  dangerous.  In  1883,  when  it 
was  very  plentiful,  I  saw  entire  families  sick  from  it  and  in  1888  there 
was  a  repetition  with  new  victims. 

522 


Clavariaceae 

"It  produces  nausea,  vertigo  and  violent  diarrhea."     Leuba.  ciavaria. 

I  have  not  seen  the  plant. 

SYNCO'RYNE.    Gr. — together,  a  club. 
Clubs  almost  simple,  tufted  at  the  base. 

C.  fusifor'mis  Sow. — fusus,  a  spindle.  (Plate  CXXXVIII,  fig.  i, 
p.  514.)  Yellow,  cespitoso-connate,  slightly  firm,  soon  hollow.  Clubs 
somewhat  fusiform,  simple  and  toothed,  even,  attenuated  to  the  base 
which  is  of  the  same  color.  Stevenson. 

Spores  pale  yellow,  globose,  4~5/*  Massee. 

Closely  resembles  C.  inaequalis  Fl.  Dan. 

Woods  and  pastures.     August  to  November. 

Received  from  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J.,  August,  1897. 

The  clubs  are  -^g-  in.  through,  4  in.  high,  light  clear  yellow,  trans- 
lucent, clustered  in  groups  of  four  or  five  united  at  the  base. 

Tender,  well  flavored,  cooks  easily. 

C.  auran'tio-cinnabari'no  Schw. — aurantius,  orange;  cinnabaris, 
vermilion.  Orange-red;  base  white  with  a  sub-hairy  powder;  clubs 
simple,  flexuous,  fleshy,  somewhat  tenacious,  fasciculate,  thickened  in 
the  middle  and  attenuated  toward  either  end,  at  first  cylindrical  then 
compressed,  6—7  mm.  thick,  2-4  in.  high. 

Pennsylvania.      On  the  ground  among  rhododendrons. 

Received  from  E.  B.  Sterling,  Trenton,  N.  J. 

The  plant  when  fresh  is  a  beautiful  rose  color,  inclining  to  orange  at 
the  tips.  It  reminds  one  of  the  peach-blow  vase  color  in  some  of  its 
shades.  The  single  clubs,  growing  in  cluster,  to  the  height  of  four 
inches,  graceful  in  outline,  exquisitely  shaded,  are  a  sight  one  lingers 
over.  While  they  invite  the  mycophagist  to  eat  them,  his  voracity  is 
checked  by  their  beauty.  They  are  tender  and  delicious.  It  is  regret- 
table that  thus  far  it  has  not  been  reported  in  quantity. 

C.  insequal'is  Fl.  Dan. — unequal.  Height  2-3  in.  club-shaped, 
yellow,  gregarious,  single  or  in  loose  tufts,  fragile,  stuffed.  Clubs  club- 
shaped  or  almost  equal,  simple,  sometimes  forked  or  variously  cut  at 
tip,  one  color. 

Spores  colorless,  elliptical,  9-10x5/4  Massee. 

523 


Clavariaceee 

ciavaria.       Woods  and  pastures.     August  to  October. 

Distinguished  from  C.  fusiformis  by  the  tips  not  being  sharp-pointed 
and  colored. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz;  New  Jersey,  Sterling. 

This  Ciavaria  is  quite  common  in  New  Jersey.  Its  clusters  are  clear 
bright  yellow  and  conspicuously  pretty.  The  clubs  are  translucent  and 
smooth.  Excepting  in  color  it  resembles  C.  aurantio-cinnabarino.  In 
the  many  specimens  seen  there  was  nothing  to  suggest  the  propriety  of 
the  name,  excepting  height  of  clubs. 

A  dish  of  it  is  a  delicacy. 


C.  vermicula'ris  Scop.  —  vermis,  a  worm.  Height  1-2  K  in.,  white, 
tufted.  Clubs  simple,  quill-shaped,  stuffed,  awl-shaped,  brittle,  pointed. 

Spores  white,  elliptical,  4x3/4  Massee. 

New  York,  North  Carolina,  Pennsylvania,  Ohio.  Thin  grassy  woods 
and  among  grass.  July  to  October. 

Edible.      Cordier. 

Common  in  southern  New  Jersey,  and  in  warm  soils  from  June  to 
frost.  When  growing  among  grass  it  is  not  conspicuous  and  is  often 
missed  unless  specially  sought  for.  Its  purity,  its  choice  of  refreshing 
abode,  its  excellent  qualities,  make  it  select  among  Ciavaria. 

HOLOCO'RYNE.     Gr.  —  entire;    Gr.  —  a  club. 
Clubs  almost  simple,  distinct  at  the  base. 

C.  pistillar'is  L.—pistilhim,  a  pestle.  (Plate  CXXXVIII,  figs.  2, 
3,  p.  514.)  Height  2-12  in.,  up  to  I  in.  and  more  thick,  color  light 
yellow,  ochraceous,  brownish,  chocolate.  Clubs  Indian-club  shape, 
ovate-rounded,  puckered  at  top,  simple,  fleshy,  white  within,  spongy, 
exterior  smooth  or  more  or  less  wrinkled,  usually  with  smooth  base. 

Spores  white,  10x5/1  W.G.S.;  9-1  1x5-6/4  Massee. 

Mixed  woods,  moss  and  grassy  places.      August  until  November. 

North  Carolina,  Pennsylvania,  California,  Alabama. 

Eaten  in  Poland,  Russia  and  Germany. 

The  writer  first  found  this  truly  club-like  species  in  West  Virginia  in 
1882,  and  ate  it.  But  few  specimens  were  found,  and  those  of  a  dark 
chocolate  color.  At  Mount  Gretna  in  1897  an<3  1898  the  yellow  va- 

524 


Clavariaceae 

riety  grew  in  considerable  quantity  from  July  until  after  frost.  The  ciavaria. 
largest  specimen  found  measured  5)^  in.  and  was  I  in.  in  diameter  at 
its  thickest  part.  The  average  height  is  2%  in.  Both  varieties  grew 
in  mixed  woods  from  the  leaf-covered  ground.  They  are  often  clus- 
tered, four  or  five  together,  and  of  different  sizes.  The  surface,  especi- 
ally of  the  dark  variety,  is  regularly,  vertically  wrinkled,  truncated  in 
few  places,  very  much  resembling  that  of  the  Craterellus  cantharellus. 
The  stems  of  both  are  white.  The  apex  of  the  clubs  is  folded  inward 
as  though  pulled  by  drawing-strings. 

The  flesh  is  soft,  white,  fine  grained.  A  slight  bitter  is  present  in  the 
dark  variety,  when  raw,  which  entirely  disappears  upon  cooking.  This 
is  one  of  the  best  of  Clavariae. 

C.  clava'ta  Pk.  Simple,  straight,  clavate,  obtuse,  smooth,  not  hol- 
low, yellow  when  fresh,  rugose-wrinkled  and  orange-colored  when  dry, 
4-6  lines  high. 

Damp  shaded  banks  by  road-sides.  Sandlake.  June.  Peck,  25th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Patches  of  it  are  conspicuous — golden-hued  upon  somber  back- 
ground. They  are  seen  at  Eagle's  Mere,  Mt.  Gretna,  and  on  the 
Springton  Hills,  Pa.,  along  wooded  road-sides.  Raw,  they  have  a  mild, 
pleasant  flavor,  and  have  the  same  when  cooked.  A  small  species  sel- 
dom found  in  sufficient  quantity  to  make  a  comforting  dish. 


525 


Tremellaceee 


FAMILY  VI.— TREMELLA'CEJE  Fr. 

Whole  fungus  homogeneous,  gelatinous,  shrivelling  when  dry,  reviv- 
ing when  moistened,  pervaded  internally  with  branched  filaments, 
terminating  toward  the  surface  all  round  in  sporophores.  Spores  trans- 
parent, from  globose  to  sausage-shape  and  curved,  sometimes  septate. 
Fries. 

The  Tremellaceae,  as  their  name  signifies,  tremble,  because  jelly-like 
when  moist.  They  are  hard,  tough,  horny  when  dry,  but  swell  and 
become  gelatinous  when  wet.  In  the  typical  genus,  Tremella,  there  is 
often  but  little  consistency.  Whoever  has  climbed  an  old  rail  fence  on 
a  rainy  day  has  had  the  doubtful  pleasure  of  acquaintance  with  some  of 
them.  Sections  for  the  microscope  are  obtainable  by  hardening  them 
in  alcohol. 

There  are  several  edible  species  in  the  family.  They  are  good  in 
soups,  giving  them  flavor  and  body,  and  some  are  excellent  when 
stewed. 

SYNOPSIS  OF  GENERA. 
Sub-Family — Auricularieee.    Page  528. 

AURICULARIA. 

Broadly  attached,  margin  free  and  reflexed.  (No  edible  species  re- 
ported.) 

HlRNEOLA.     Page  528. 

Cartilaginous,  ear-shaped,  attached  by  a  point. 

Sub-Family — Tremellineee.     Page  5  29. 

EXIDIA. 

Cup-shaped,  truncate,  or  irregularly  lobed  ;  spores  reniform,  producing 
curved  sporidiola  on  germination.  (No  edible  species  reported.) 

ULOCOLLA. 

Pulvinate  and  gyrose;  spores  reniform,  producing  rod-shaped  sporidi- 
ola on  germination.  (No  edible  species  reported.) 

526 


Tremellacese 

. 

TREMELLA.     Page  529. 
Brain-like  or  lobed ;  spores  globose  or  ovoid. 

N^MATELIA. 

Firm,  convex,  with  a  central  hard  nucleus.     (No  edible  species  re- 
ported.) 

GYROCEPHALUS. 

Erect,  spathulate.     (No  edible  species  reported.) 

TREMELLEDON.     Page  533. 

Gelatinous,   tremelloid,  fan-shaped,  fleshy;   hymenium  with  distinct 
spines. 

Sub-Family — Dacryomycetese. 

DACRYOMYCES. 
Small,  pulvinate  and  gyrose.     (No  edible  species  reported.) 

GUEPINIA. 

Irregularly  cup-shaped,  hymenium  on  one  surface  only.     (No  edible 
species  reported.) 

DACRYOPSIS. 

Hymenium  at  the  apex  of  a  short  stem,  bearing  conidia  and  spores. 
(No  edible  species  reported.) 

DlTIOLA. 

Stem  distinct,  bearing  the  hymenium  at  its  expanded  apex.    (No  edi- 
ble species  reported.) 

APYRENIUM. 
Subglobose  or  lobed,  hollow.      (No  edible  species  reported.) 

CALOCERA. 

Subcylindrical  and  erect,  simple  or  branched.     (No  edible  species  re- 
ported. ) 


527 


Tremellaceee 


Sub-Family — AuriculariesBr 

HIKNE'OLA  Fr. 

Hirnea,  a  small  jug. 

Gelatinous,  rather  cartilaginous,  soft  and  tremulous  when  moist,  but 
not  distended  with  jelly,  horny  when  dry,  becoming  somewhat  cartila- 
ginous when  moistened.  The  hard  skin  forming  the  hymenium,  which 
covers  the  cup-shaped  cavity  and  is  of  a  different  color,  can  be  sepa- 
rated entire  after  a  thorough  soaking  in  water.  Sporophores  (spore- 
bearing  processes)  not  involved  in  jelly.  Spores  oblong,  curved.  Fries. 

A  very  peculiar  and  distinct  genus  separated  from  the  neighboring 
genera  by  its  disk-like,  somewhat  cup-shaped  cavity  and  by  its  not  be- 
ing distended  with  jelly. 


(Plate  CXLIII.) 


H.  auri'cula-Jllde'a  (Linn.)  Berk. — Jew's  ear.    1-4  in.  across,  thin, 

and  flexible  when  moist,  hard  when  dry, 
date-brown  or  blackish.  Hymenium  veno- 
so-plicate  (vein-plaited),  forming  irregu- 
lar depressions  such  as  are  in  the  ear,  yel- 
lowish-gray or  grayish  beneath  and  hairy. 
The  large  depressions  or  corrugations 
branch  from  smaller  ones  near  the  center  of 
the  plant. 

Spores  20-25x7-9/4  Massee. 
H.  auricula-Judea  is  not  very  particular 
in  the  trees  it  patronizes.  Elm,  maple, 
hickory,  balsam-fir,  spruce,  alder  bear  it. 
When  the  plant  grows  on  upright  timber  it 
usually  turns  upward.  It  is  not  generally 
reported  in  the  United  States. 

Ohio,  Maryland,  Miss  Banning;  Indi- 
ana, H.  I.  Miller;  New  York,  Peck;  New 
Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  West  Virginia,  Me- 

Ilvaine.  Extensively  used  in  China,  where  eating  it  probably  ante- 
dates all  European  records  by  several  thousand  years.  It  is  brought 
there  dried  from  Tahiti  in  great  quantities  and  made  into  soup. 

The  writer  has  found  and  eaten  several  specimens  of  it.      It  is  not  as 
tender  as  other  gelatinous  species,  but  it  is  an  oddity  that  pleases. 

528 


HlRHEOLA  AURICULA-JUDKA. 

A.bout  two-thirds  nat.  size. 


Tremellacese 
Sub-Family — Tremellineae. 

TREMEL'LADill. 

Tremo — to   tremble. 

Distended  with  jelly  when  moist,  tremulous,  without  a  defined  mar-  Tremeiia. 
gin  and  without  nipple-like  elevations.   Spore-bearing  processes  globose, 
becoming  divided  into  four  parts,  each  division  producing  an  elongated 
free  point  terminating  in  a  simple  spore.      Fries. 

Distinguished  by  its  peculiarly  convoluted  habit  and  jelly-like  sub- 
stance, which  is  more  or  less  inclined  to  be  cartilaginous. 

Exidia,  similar  in  form,  is  separated  by  possessing  minute  nipple-like 
elevations  and  Hirneola  by  its  distinct  difference  in  form. 

Generally  growing  on  dead  wood ;  some  species  are  found  on  trees 
and  others  on  the  ground,  etc. 

Old  tradition,  in  many  countries,  attests  that  the  Tremellas  are  Fairy 
bread,  and  T.  albida  the  choicest  baking.  Pretty,  indeed,  must  have 
been  the  feasts  when  piles  of  such  purity  filled  the  board,  and  the  bril- 
liant Pezizae  were  wassail  cups. 

They  are  better  suited  to  Fairy  appetites  than  to  those  of  mortals ; 
being  watery  their  nutritive  value  is  small.  Nevertheless  they  have 
dainty  flavor. 

So  far  as  tested  no  suspicion  rests  upon  Tremellae. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

MESENTERIFOR'MES  (Gr. — the  mesentery).     Page  530. 
Gelatinous  inclining  to  cartilaginous,  foliaceous,  naked. 

CEREBRIN/E  (cerebnun,  the  brain).     Page  530. 
Firm,  then  pulpy,  somewhat  pruinose  with  the  spores. 

CRUSTA'CE^E  (crusta,  a  crust). 
Diffused,  becoming  plane. 

TUBERCULIFOR'MES  (tuberculum,  a  little  tuber). 
Small,  somewhat  erumpent. 

34  529 


Tremellacese 


I. — MESENTERIFOR'MES.     Gelatinous,  inclining  to  cartilaginous. 

Tremelia.  T.  fimbria'ta  Pers. — fimbria,  fringe.  Olivaceous  inclining  to  black, 
cespitose,  clusters  2-3  in.  high  and  even  broader,  erect,  corrugated; 
lobes  flaccid,  incised  at  the  margin,  undulately  fringed. 

When  soaked  with  water  it  has  a  dark  tawny  tinge.      Stevenson. 

Spores  subpyriform. 

On  roots,  dead  branches,  stumps,  rails,  etc. 

From  July  to  December,  1898,  tufts  five  inches  in  diameter  grew 
from  an  oak  stump  close  by  the  writer's  cottage  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa. 
These  tufts  dried,  and  revived  after  rain  into  a  gelatinous  condition. 
They  were  nibbled  at  raw,  and  several  were  cooked.  Tufts  were  found 
elsewhere  in  the  same  woods  and  eaten  by  others.  They  were  unani- 
mously approved.  The  species  dries  hard,  like  thin  glue,  but  is  darker. 
A  dried  piece  swells  in  the  mouth,  grows  tough,  and  has  but  little  taste. 
Flavor  develops  in  cooking. 

T.  lutes'cens  Pers. — Ititcus,  yellow.  Yellowish,  cespitose,  small, 
cluster  %  —  i  in.  broad,  very  soft,  circling  in  wavy,  undulating  folds; 
lobes  entire,  naked. 

Inclining  to  be  fluid.     Whitish  when  young.      Stevenson. 
Spores  subglobose,  12-16/1  diameter  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  common.  Curtis. 
On  decaying  branches,  stumps,  etc. 
July  to  February. 

It  dries    and  revives,  or  swells  with 
moisture,  very  soft  and  tremulous. 
Edible.     Leuba. 


II.—  CEREBRINjE.   Firm  then  pulpy ,  etc. 

T.  mesenter'ica  Retz.  Gr. — the 
mesentary.  Gelatinous  but  firm, 
bright  orange-yellow,  variously  con- 
torted; lobes  short,  smooth,  pruinose 
with  the  white  spores  at  maturity. 
Spores  broadly  elliptical,  6-9/u.  diameter ; 
conidia  1-1.5/11  diameter. 

On  dead  branches.     Very  variable  in 

530 


(Plate  CXLIV.) 


TREMELLA  MESENTERICA. 
Natural  size. 


Tremellaceee 


form  but  known  by  the  bright  orange  color.     From  K-2  in.  across.  Tremeiia. 
Mas  sec, 

North  Carolina.  Common,  edible.  Curtis;  California,  Ohio,  West 
Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  Mcllvaine.  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist, 
Richmond,  Ind.,  November,  1898,  sent  me  fine  specimens. 

Very  common  as  an  apparent  exudation  from  sticks,  branches  and 
rails.  It  can  usually  be  collected  in  quantity  from  June  until  far  into 
the  winter.  It  can  be  found  in  every  month  in  the  year. 

During  the  civil  war  the  writer's  first  attempt  at  making  a  dish  of 
cornstarch  resulted  in  getting  it  into  knots.  T.  mesenterica,  when  stewed, 
very  much  resembles  these  same  knots.  It  has  a  mild,  woody  flavor, 
slightly  sweet,  and  is  good. 


Suborbicular,   depressed, 


(Plate  CXLIVa.) 


T.  myceto'phila  Pk.     (Plate  CXLIVa.) 
circling  in  folds,  tremelloid-fleshy,  slightly 
pruinose,   yellowish  or  pallid,    4—8  lines 
broad.   Peck,  28th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  August,  1895. 
Mcllvaine. 

Professor  Peck  notes  it  as  found  para- 
sitic upon  Collybia  dryophila. 

I  found  T.  mycetophila  growing  para- 
sitic upon  Marasmius  oreades,  August, 
1894.  The  mass  was  2  in.  in  diameter. 
Separating  them  was  taking  the  host  from 
the  parasite.  Cooked  it  is  glutinous,  ten- 
der— like  calf's  head.  Rather  tasteless. 


T.  al'bida  Huds. — albidus,  whitish. 
Whitish,  becoming  dingy-brown  when 
dry,  I  in.  broad,  ascending,  tough,  ex- 
panded, undulated,  somewhat  circling  in 
folds,  powdered.  Stevenson. 

Spores  oblong,  obtuse,  curved,  2-guttate,  subhyaline,  12-14x4— 5/u.  K. 

Where  birch,  sugar-maple,  hickory  are  in  abundance  the  T.  albida 
will  be  found.  At  Eagle's  Mere  and  Springton,  Pa.,  and  other  wooded 
places,  it  is  common  during  the  warm  months.  It  has  slight  taste, 
sweet,  woody,  but  makes  a  pleasant  dish. 

531 


TREMELLA  MYCETOPHILA  on 

COLLYBIA  DRYOPHILA. 

(After  Peck.) 


Tremellacese 

T.  intlimes'cens  Eng.  Bot. — intumesco,  to  swell  up.  Gelatinous;  sub- 
cespitose,  rounded,  broken  up  into  numerous  tortuous  lobes,  brown, 
shining,  obscurely  dotted,  becoming  darker  when  dry.  Spores  oblong, 
slightly  curved,  12— 14x3— 4;*. 

From  1-2  in.  across.     Massee. 

Entire  year,  but  dried  or  frozen  during  winter,  swelling  in  wet 
weather. 

North  Carolina.  Common.  Curtis.  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania, 
New  Jersey,  Mcllvaine. 

T.  intumescens  is  not  rare  in  West  Virginia,  or  where  beech  logs  are 
in  plenty,  though  it  does  not  confine  itself  to  beech.  It  occurs  on 
maples  and  some  other  woods. 

It  resembles  the  T.  mesenterica  in  taste,  but  is  sweeter.  It  is  not  as 
large,  but  is  equally  good. 


532 


Tremellaceae 


TREMEL'LODON  Pers. 

Tremo,  to  tremble. 

Gelatinous,  pileate,  prickly  below,  spines  awl-shaped,  equal.     Fries.  Tremeiiodon. 

The  members  of  this  genus  resemble  in  form  the  section  Mesopus  of 
Hydnum  and  have  the  same  awl-shaped  spines,  but  differ  in  their  gela- 
tinous consistency  and  fructification. 


(Plato  CXLV.i 


T.  gelatino'sum  Pers. — gelatina,  jelly.    PileilS  covered  with  a  green- 
ish-brown bloom,  gelatinous,  tremu- 
lous, dimidiate,   somewhat  stipitate, 
covered  with  small  pimples.     Spines 
soft,  glaucous. 

On    fir,    trunks     and    sawdust. 
September  to  October.      Stevenson. 

Of  singular  beauty,  almost  trans-  \  V\      W$''>;XM$;$$ 

*       It  \  V\i'iV'.'i  AHwV  ''•  •••'•' 

lucent  with  steel-blue  tints  shading 

.  i      m        WV|'l''Wi>'';''V 

into  violet,  while  the  spines  are  of  a  MJfln/i       \       \      ii1i;»^f 

pure  soft  white. 

Spores  round,   somewhat   irregu- 
lar, white,  2ju.  W.G.S. 

Can   not  be  confounded  with  any. 
The  only  gelatinous  spiny  fungus. 

North  Carolina,  Schweinitz,  Curtis;  Pennsylvania,  Massachusetts,  Far- 
low,  Frost;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  22.  T.  gelatinosum  is  well  distributed 
over  the  United  States  but  is  not  reported  in  quantity.  It  is  an  autumnal 
grower,  lasting  well  into  the  winter.  The  writer  found  specimens  near 
Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  in  February,  1894,  and  sent  them  to  Professor 
Peck.  It  is  delicious  when  slowly  stewed. 


TREMELLODON  GELATINOSUM. 


533 


Discomycetes 


SUB-CLASS  ASCOMYCETES. 

The  reproductive  bodies  consisting  of  sporidia  mostly  definite,  con- 
tained in  asci — mother  cells  or  sacs — springing  from  a  naked  or  enclosed 
stratum  of  fructifying  cells  and  forming  a  hymenium  or  nucleus.  The 
sporidia  are  often  accompanied  by  simple  or  branched  threads,  which 
are  abortive  asci,  called  paraphyses. 

In  Hymenomycetes  the  spores  are  entirely  unenclosed  and  are  borne 
on  stalk-like  processes  on  the  gills  of  Agaricaceae,  in  the  tubes  of  Poly- 
poraceae,  on  the  spines  of  Hydnaceae,  etc.  In  Ascomycetes  they  are 
enclosed  in  sacs  springing  from  the  external  layer  of  the  fruit-bearing 
surface,  which  may  be  on  the  outer  surface  of  the  plant  or  enclosed. 

COHORT    DISCOMTCETES.       Gr.-a.  sac;  Gr.-a  fungus. 

The  most  important  distinctive  feature  of  Discomycetes  consists  in 
the  disk  or  hymenium  being  fully  exposed  at  maturity.  It  includes 
families  which  contain  choice  edible  species. 

FAMILY.— HELVELLA'CB^J. 

Fleshy,  waxy  or  gelatinous;  hymenium  or  sac-bearing  surface  ex- 
posed at  first,  or  at  length  more  or  less  exposed.  Where  a  distinct 
stem  is  present  it  is  surmounted  by  a  more  or  less  definite  pileus  or  the 
stem  is  expanded  into  a  club-like  head.  In  Peziza  the  definite  stem  is 
absent  and  the  plant  is  seated  on  the  supporting  surface. 

Many  more  genera  than  are  noted  below  are  included  in  Helvellaceae, 
but  are  not  known  to  contain  edible  species. 

SYNOPSIS  OF  THE  GENERA. 
*  Margin  only  or  whole  of  pileus  free  from  sides  of  stem. 

HELVELLA.     Page  536. 

Pileus  drooping,  irregularly  waved  and  lobed. 

534 


Helvellaceee 

VERPA.     Page  539. 
Pileus  drooping,  regular,  margin  entire,  thimble-shaped. 

LEOTIA.     Page  540. 
Pileus  fleshy,  discoid. 

** Pileus  adnate  throughout  to  the  stem. 

MORCHELLA.     Page  541. 

Surface  of  pileus  furnished  with  stout,  anastomosing  ribs  bounding 
deep  irregular  pits. 

GYROMITRA.     Page  546. 
Surface  of  pileus  covered  with  rounded,  variously  contorted  folds. 

MITRULA.     Page  548. 
Pileus  subgiobose  or  clavate,  surface  even. 

SPATHULARIA.     Page  549. 

Pileus  flattened,  running  down  the  stem  for  some  distance  on  op- 
posite sides. 

GBOGLOSSUM.     Page  550. 


535 


Helvellaeeee 


HELVEL'LA  Linn. 
A  small  pot  herb. 

Heiveiia.  Stem  of  medium  thickness.  Pileus  hanging  loosely  over  the  stem, 
more  or  less  folded,  but  not  into  pits.  Hymenium  on  the  upper  side 
only. 

Helvetia  esculenta  is  now  Gyromitra  esculenta,  and  is  in  bad  repute. 

Meanings  of  the  unfamiliar  words  are  too  lengthy  to  give  in  the  de- 
scriptions of  species.  They  are  in  the  Glossary. 

Dr.  Badham  says:  "All  Helvellae  are  esculent,  have  an  agreeable 
odor,  and  bear  a  general  resemblance  in  flavor  to  the  Morell." 


H.  cri'spa  Fr. — curled. 
(Plate  CXLVI.) 


Pileus  deflexed,  lobed  or  variously  con- 
torted, white  or  whitish.  Stem 
equal  or  slightly  swollen  at  the 
base,  deeply  and  uninterruptedly 
grooved,  white  or  whitish.  Spores 
elliptical,  i8x22/*  long.  Peck,  48th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Distinguished  from  all  other  spe- 
cies by  the  stout,  costate,  lacunose, 
hollow  stem;  entirely  glabrous,  fra- 
gile and  with  a  semi-transparent 
look.  Color  variable,  included  un- 
der the  following  forms : 

Var.  al'ba.      Pileus  whitish. 
Var.   Gremtlei.       Under  surface 
of  the  pileus  reddish;  stem  white. 
Var.  incarnata.     Pileus  and  stem  flesh-color. 
Var.  ful'va.     Pileus  yellowish  or  tawny.     Massee. 
Pileus  whitish,  flesh-colored  or  yellowish,  deflexed,  lobed,  at  length 
free,  crisped.      Stem  hollow,  ribbed  outside  forming  deep  pits,  3-5  in. 
high,  snowy  white. 

Edible.     Badham,  Cordier,  Cooke,  Berkeley,  Peck. 
West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  Mcllvaine. 
H.  crispa  is  white  and  variable  in  shape  of  cap.    In  its  color  it  differs 
from  all  others  of  its  genus.      It  is  found  in  the  woods  only,  from  July 
until  frost.      It  is  not  usually  abundant.      It  is  an  esculent  species  and 
good  of  its  kind. 


HELVELLA  CRISPA. 
Natural  size. 


Helvellacese 

H.  Califor'nica  Phillips.     PiletlS  bell-shaped  or  saddle-shaped,  de-  Heiveiia. 
flexed,  sublobate,  free,  veined  beneath,   purplish-brown.      Stem  longi- 
tudinally pitted  between  ridges,  rosy-pink.      Asci  cylindrical,  narrowed 
toward  the  base.      Sporidia  8,  elliptical,  binucleate,  i/xQ/u,;    paraphyses 
linear,  clavate  and  brown  at  the  apices. 

2-6  in.  in  diameter.     Stem  2-6  in.  high,  .75-1.5  in.  in  diameter. 

On  the  earth  in  dense  forests  near  rocks.  Sierra  Nevada  mountains; 
California,  Harkness. 

Edible.      Harkness. 

It  presents  characters  essentially  different  from  those  of  any  species 
hitherto  described.  Its  nearest  ally  is  H.  crispa,  from  which  it  differs 
in  the  color  of  the  hymenium  and  stem  and  in  being  a  larger  species. 

H.  lacuno'sa  Afzel. — uneven,  pitted.  Pileus  inflated,  lobed,  cinere- 
ous-black, lobes  deflexed,  adnate.  Stem  white  or  dusky,  hollow,  ex- 
terior ribbed,  forming  intervening  cavities ;  asci  cylindrical,  stemmed; 
sporidia  ovate,  hyaline. 

Solitary  or  gregarious ;   very  variable  in  size. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Sprague,  Frost;  White 
mountains,  Farloiv;  Rhode  Island,  Bennett;  California,  H '.  and  M '. 

Edible.      Cordier,  Berkeley,  Bad/iam,  Cooke,  Curtis. 

H.  SUlca'ta  Afzel. — furrowed.  Pileus  deflexed,  equally  2-3  lobed, 
even,  compressed,  darker  when  dry.  Stem  2  in.  long,  4-5  lines  thick, 
stuffed,  equal,  longitudinally  furrowed.  Spores  very  broadly  elliptic, 
with  a  single  large  globose  nucleus,  15-18/4  long  B.  and  Br. 

Solitary,  rarely  gregarious. 

Var.  minor  Clem.  Bot.  Surv.  of  Neb.  Univ.  of  Neb.  Pileus  .8—1.2 
in.,  rarely  3.2  in.  wide,  .8-2  in.  high.  Stem  .8-1.2  in.,  rarely  4  in. 
high,  .6—1.4  in.  wide;  sporidia  15x10^. 

On  shady  ground.      Otowanie  woods,  Lancaster  county. 

The  prominent  character  in  this  species,  as  indicated  by  the  name,  is 
the  sulcate  stem.  The  furrows  are  very  deep,  and  extend,  without 
interruption,  the  entire  length  of  the  stem.  The  whole  stem,  as  shown 
by  a  cross-section,  is  made  up  of  the  costae  intervening  between  these 
furrows.  I  do  not  find  the  stem  "stuffed,"  as  required  by  the  descrip- 
tion in  Syst.  Myc.,  Vol.  II,  p.  15.  The  pileus  is  generally  darker  than 
that  of  H.  crispa.  Peck,  3ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

537 


Helvellaceee 

Heiveiia.       On  decaying  wood,  stumps,  trunks.     Spring  until  autumn. 
Known  to  be  edible.     Peck. 

H.  elos'tica  Bull. — elastic.  Pileus  free  from  the  stem,  drooping, 
2-3  lobed,  center  depressed,  even,  whitish,  brownish  or  sooty,  almost 
smooth  underneath,  about  2  cm.  broad.  Stem  2-3.5  m-  high,  3-5 
lines  thick  at  the  inflated  base;  tapering  upward,  elastic,  even  or  often 
more  or  less  pitted,  colored  like  the  pileus,  minutely  velvety  or  furfur- 
aceous,  at  first  solid,  then  hollow.  Spores  hyaline,  smooth,  continu- 
ous, elliptical,  ends  obtuse,  often  i-guttulate,  18-20x10-1  I/A;  i-seriate; 
paraphyses  septate,  clavate.  Massee. 

It  is  not  uncommon  to  find  the  pileus  attached  in  one  or  two  points 
to  the  stem.  Peck,  32d  Rep. 

Var.  al'ba  (Pers.)  Sacc. 

On  decaying  wood.      August  to  frost. 

Massachusetts,  Frost;  Rhode  Island,  Bennett;  Nebraska,  Clements; 
New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  24,  32,  51. 

Edible.      Unger,  Cordier.     Known  to  be  edible.     Peck. 

H.  ill'fllla  Schaeff. — a  head  dress.  Pileus  hooded,  in  2-4  irregular, 
drooping  lobes,  at  length  undulate,  strongly  adherent  to  the  sides  of  the 
stem,  reddish-brown  or  cinnamon  more  or  less  deep  in  color,  whitish 
and  downy  underneath,  1.5-3  in-  broad.  Stem  \%-2%  in.  long,  >^ 
in.  and  more  thick,  usually  smooth  and  even,  sometimes  compressed 
and  irregularly  pitted,  pallid  or  tinged  with  red,  covered  with  a  white 
meal  or  down,  solid  when  young  but  becoming  hollow  with  age;  asci 
cylindrical,  apex  somewhat  truncate,  8-spored.  Spores  hyaline, 
smooth,  continuous,  elliptical,  ends  obtuse,  21-23x1  i-12/x  Massee. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania.  Decaying  trunks,  stumps  and  roots. 
Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Cooke,  Curtis,  Peck. 

Equal  to  any  Helvella. 


538 


Helvellacese 

VER'PA    Svvartz. 
Verpa,  a  rod. 

Ascophore  stipitate,  campanulate,  ;ittached  to  the  tip  of  the  stem  and  Verpa. 
hanging  down  like  a  bell,  surrounding  but  free  from  the  side  of  the  stem, 
regular,  smooth  or  slightly  wrinkled  but  not  ribbed,  persistent,  thin, 
excipulum  formed  of  interwoven,  septate  hyphae,  hymenium  entirely 
covering  the  outer  surface  of  the  ascophore;  asci  cylindrical,  8-spored. 
Spores  elliptical,  continuous,  hyaline  or  nearly  so,  I -seriate;  paraphyses 
septate.  Stem  elongated,  stuffed. 

Very  closely  allied  to  Helvella ;  distinguished  by  the  ascophore  be- 
ing more  regular  in  form,  and  more  evidently  deflexed  round  the  apex 
of  the  stem,  which  it  surrounds  like  a  thimble  on  a  finger,  and  is  quite 
free  from  the  stem  except  at  the  apex. 

The  species  grow  on  the  ground,  in  spring.     Massee. 

V.  digitalifor'mis  Pers. — digitus,  a  finger.  Pileus  at  first  nearly 
even,  olivaceous-umber,  dark  at  the  apex.  Stem  obese,  furnished  at 
the  base  with  a  few  reddish  radicles,  white  with  a  slight  rufous  tinge, 
marked  with  transverse  reddish  spots;  smooth  to  the  naked  eye,  but  un- 
der a  lens  clothed  with  fine  adpressed  flocci,  the  rupture  of  which  gives 
rise  to  the  spots,  which  are,  in  fact,  minute  scales.  In  the  mature  plant 
the  pileus  is  %  in.  high,  bell-shaped,  finger-form,  or  subglobose,  more 
or  less  closely  pressed  to  the  stem,  but  always  free,  the  edge  sometimes 
inflexed  so  as  to  form  a  white  border,  wrinkled,  but  not  reticulated,  un- 
der side  slightly  pubescent;  sporidia  yellowish,  elliptic.  Stem  3  in. 
high,  }z  in.  or  more  thick,  slightly  attenuated  downward,' loosely 
stuffed,  by  no  means  hollow.  Berkeley. 

Minnesota,  Johnson;  California,  H.  and M.;  New  York,  Buffalo,  Clin- 
ton; Oneida,  Warne,  May.  Peck,  3Oth,  32d  Rep. 

It.  Gretna.July,  1897.      Road-side  bank.     Mcllvaine. 

Sold  in  Italy.  Vittadini.  Not  to  be  despised  when  one  can  not  get 
better  nor  to  be  eaten  when  one  can.  Badham. 

The  substance  of  this  fungus  is  the  same  as  that  of  Helvella.  It  is 
pleasant  but  rather  tasteless. 


539 


Helvellaceae 

LEOTIA  Hill. 

Leotia.  Ascophore  stipitate,  substance  fleshy,  soft  and  somewhat  gelatinous. 
Pileus  orbicular,  spreading;  margin  drooping  or  incurved  free  from  the 
stem,  glabrous,  hymenium  entirely  covering  the  upper  surface.  Stem 
central,  elongated;  asci  cylindric-clavate,  apex  narrowed,  8-spored. 
Spores  hyaline,  continuous  or  I -septate,  elongated  and  narrowly  ellip- 
tical, obliquely  1—2  seriate;  paraphyses  present. 

Growing  on  the  ground,  or  on  decaying  wood.  Hill.  Emended. 
Massee. 

Stem  long.  Pileus  flattened,  margin  incurved,  covered  everywhere 
with  the  smooth,  somewhat  viscid  hymenium. 

L.  chloroceph'ala  Schw. — chloros,  green;  kephalos,  a  head.  Cespi- 
tose,  stipitate.  Pileus  4-6  lines  across,  depresso-globose,  somewhat 
translucent,  more  or  less  wavy,  margin  incurved,  dark  verdigris-green 
to  blackish-green.  Stem  1—1%  in.  long,  almost  equal,  green  but  often 
paler  than  the  pileus,  pulverulent,  often  twisted;  asci  cylindric-clavate, 
apex  rather  narrowed,  8-spored.  Spores  smooth,  hyaline,  narrowly  el- 
liptical, ends  acute,  often  slightly  curved,  usually  2— 3-guttulate,  17- 
2OX5/A,  irregularly  2-seriate;  paraphyses  slender,  hyaline. 

On  the  ground. 

Distinguished  from  L.  lubrica  by  the  green  stem.     Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania. 
Cespitose.  In  mixed  woods,  moist  ground.  July  until  long  after  frosts. 
Mcllvaine. 

A  small  clustered  plant  having  a  green  gelatinous  appearance.  Quarts 
of  it  can  frequently  be  gathered  after  rains.  Both  it  and  L.  lubrica  have 
less  flavor  than  the  larger  Helvellaceae,  but  they  make  a  palatable  dish. 

L.  lu'brica  Pers. — slippery.  Gregarious  or  in  small  clusters,  stipi- 
tate, somewhat  gelatinous.  Pileus  irregularly  hemispherical,  inflated, 
wavy,  margin  very  obtuse,  yellowish  olive-green,  6-8  lines  across. 
Stem  i-S-2  in.  high,  nearly  equal  or  more  or  less  inflated  at  the 
base,  pulpy  within  then  hollow,  externally  yellowish  and  covered  with 
minute  white  granules  ;  asci  cylindrical,  apex  slightly  narrowed,  8-spored. 
Spores  obliquely  i-seriate,  hyaline,  continuous,  smooth,  often  guttulate, 

540 


Helvellacese 


narrowly    elliptical,     straight    or    very  (Plate  CXLVII.) 

slightly  curved,  22— 25x5— 6/x;    paraphy- 
ses   slender,  cylindrical,  hyaline. 

On  the  ground  in  woods.     Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Massachu- 
setts, Frost;  Minnesota,  Jo  Jin  son;  New 
York,  Ellis. 

New  York,  Peck,  23d  Rep. ;  Trenton, 
N.  J.  Cespitose  on  damp  ground  in 
woods.  Forty  specimens,  July,  1898. 
E.  B.  Sterling;  New  Jersey;  Pennsyl- 
vania. Gregarious  and  cespitose  in 
several  localities.  July  to  frost.  Mc- 
Ilvaine. 

Irregular  in  appearance.  Helvella- 
like  but  with  a  very  soft  gelatinous 

stem,  yellow.  The  color  of  the  stem  distinguishes  it  from  L.  chloro- 
cephala,  which  has  a  green  stem.  It  is  a  small  plant,  but  of  good  food 
value.  Where  it  occurs  there  is  often  a  goodly  quantity. 


Leotia. 


LEOTIA  LUBRICA. 
Natural  size. 


MOKCHEL'LA    Dill. 
Gr. — a  mushroom. 

Stipitate  or  subsessile.  Pileus  globose  or  ovate,  adnate  throughout  Morcheiia. 
its  length  to  the  sides  of  the  stem,  remaining  closed  at  the  apex,  hollow 
and  continuous  with  the  cavity  of  the  stem ;  externally  furnished  with 
stout,  branche'd  and  anastomosing  ribs  or  plates,  every  part  bearing  the 
hymenium.  Stem  stout,  stuffed  or  hollow;  asci  cylindrical,  2-4-8- 
spored.  Spores  i-seriate,  continuous,  hyaline,  elliptical;  paraphyses 
septate,  clavate. 

Most  nearly  allied  to  Gyromitra ;  differs  in  the  ribs  of  the  pileus  be- 
ing deep  and  plate-like,  and  anastomosing  to  form  elongated  or  irregu- 
larly polygonal  deep  pits. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  the  spring.     Massee. 

Stem  stout;  pileus  ovoid  or  conical,  deeply  folded  into  pits,  resem- 
bling honeycomb. 

Notwithstanding  Dill,  the  author  of  the  genus,  describes  the  caps  as 
adnate  throughout  their  length  to  the  stem,  such  is  not  the  case.  Pro- 

541 


Helvellaceae 

Morcheiia.  fessor  Peck  arranges  the  genus  into  two  groups,  "in  one  of  which  the 
margin  of  the  cap  is  wholly  attached  to  the  stem,  in  the  other  it  is 
free."  In  the  latter  group  are  M.  bispora  and  M.  semilibera. 

The  species  are  so  much  alike  that  botanical  descriptions  are  omitted 
of  all  but  M.  esculenta  and  Professor  Peck's  species. 

Not  one  of  the  Morells  is  even  suspicious.  They  are  favorites  wher- 
ever found.  The  Morell  is  one  of  the  few  species  known  to  the  settler 
and  to  the  farmer.  It  loves  old  apple  orchards,  probably  because  ashes 
have  been  used  about  the  trees ;  ashes  and  cinders  are  its  choice  fertil- 
izers. In  Germany  peasants  formerly  burned  forests  to  insure  a  bounti- 
ful crop.  Mr.  Moore,  of  San  Francisco,  Cal.,  says:  "We  find  it  in 
profusion  on  burnt  hillsides  all  along  the  Pacific  coast." 

But  it  does  not  confine  its  habitat  to  burned  surfaces.  It  grows  in 
thin  open  woods  or  on  borders  of  woods.  It  grows  under  pine,  ash, 
oaks  and  other  trees.  Strange  to  say  it  grows  under  the  walnut  tree 
where  very  few  fungi  of  any  kind  grow.  Especially  does  it  love  the 
white  walnut  or  butternut. 

Morcheiia  dry  well  and  keep  well  for  winter  use. 

M.  CSCulen'taPers. — esculent.  (Plate  XLVI,  fig.  2,  p.  214.)  Pileus 
globose,  ovate  or  oblong,  adnate  to  the  stem  at  the  base,  hollow,  ribs 
stout,  forming  irregular,  polygonal,  deep  pits,  pale  dingy  yellow,  buff 
or  tawny,  1.25—2.5  in.  high  and  broad.  Stem  stout,  whitish,  almost 
even,  hollow  or  stuffed,  1.25-2.5  in.  high,  .8  in.  and  more  thick;  asci 
cylindrical,  8-spored.  Spores  continuous,  smooth,  hyaline,  elliptical, 
ends  obtuse,  19-20x10/1,  paraphyses  rather  slender,  slightly  thickened 
upward. 

On  the  ground.     Spring  and  early  summer.      Edible. 

Variable  in  form,  size  and  color,  but  distinguished  by  the  pileus 
being  adnate  to  the  stem  at  the  base,  and  the  stout  ribs  anastomosing 
to  form  irregular,  polygonal  pits  of  about  equal  size,  and  not  elongated. 
Mas  see. 

Common  over  the  states,  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey. 
In  orchards,  on  ashes  and  cinders,  under  walnut,  pine  and  oak  trees. 
May  and  June.  Mcllvaine. 

The  common  Morell  varies  in  size,  2—4  in.  high,  sometimes  larger. 
The  cap,  usually  broader  than  it  is  long,  oval,  at  times  tapering  to  a 
rounded  top.  The  cavities  resemble  those  of  a  weather-beaten  honey- 

542 


Helvellaceee 

comb,  and  are  whitish,  or  grayish  or  brownish.     The  stem  is  about  3a   Morcheiia. 
in.  in  diameter.      It  is  an  easily  recognized  species.      Edible.      Choice. 
Total  nitrogen,  according  to  Lafayette  B.  Mendel,  4.66  per  cent. 

M.  cras'sipes  Pers. — crassus,  thick;  pes,  a  foot.  Agreeing  with  M. 
esculenta  in  having  the  pits  of  the  pileus  irregular  in  form,  not  much, 
if  at  all,  longer  than  broad,  and  in  not  having  a  main  series  of  more  or 
less  parallel  and  vertical  ribs ;  differing  in  the  stout  stem  being  much 
longer  than  the  pileus.  Massee. 

Attains  a  height  of  9  in.  or  more. 

Not  rare  in  May.     Kansas,  Cragin;  Minnesota,  Johnson. 

Esculent.      Cooke. 

M.  delicio'sa  Fr.  The  Delicious  morell  is  easily  known  by  the  shape 
of  its  cap,  which  is  cylindrical  or  nearly  so.  Sometimes  it  is  slightly 
narrowed  toward  the  top  and  occasionally  curved,  as  in  the  preceding 
species,  but  its  long  narrow  shape  and  blunt  apex  is  quite  strongly  con- 
trasted with  that  species.  It  is  usually  two  or  three  times  as  long  as  it 
is  broad,  and  generally  it  is  longer  than  the  stem.  Specimens  also  oc- 
cur in  which  the  cap  is  slightly  more  narrow  in  the  middle  than  it  is 
above  and  below,  and  rarely  it  is  slightly  pointed  at  the  apex.  The 
pits  on  its  surface  are  rather  narrow  and  mostly  longer  than  broad.  The 
stem  is  often  rather  short. 

The  plant  varies  from  1*2-3  in.  high.  Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State 
Bot. 

Its  name  gives  it  esculent  properties. 

M.  COn'ica  Pers. — conical.  The  Conical  morell  has  the  cap  conical 
or  oblong-conical,  as  its  name  indicates.  The  longitudinal  ridges  on 
its  surface  run  more  regularly  from  top  to  base  than  in  the  Common 
morell.  They  are  connected  by  short  transverse  ridges  which  are  so 
distant  from  each  other  or  so  incomplete  that  the  resulting  pits  or  de- 
pressions are  generally  longer  than  broad,  and  sometimes  rather  irregu- 
lar. The  color  in  the  young  plant  is  a  beautiful  buff-yellow  or  very- 
pale  ochraceous,  but  it  becomes  darker  with  age. 

The  plants  are  generally  3-5  in.  high,  with  the  cap  i%—2  in.  thick 
in  its  broadest  part,  and  distinctly  broader  than  the  stem.  Peck,  48th 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Kansas;  California;  Rhode  Island  ;  Ohio,  Lloyd;  New  York;  Indiana, 

543 


Helvellaceae 

Morcheiia.  H.  I.  Miller,   orchards,  thin  woods;    New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  West 
Virginia,  Mcllvaine. 

The  conical  form  distinguishes  M.  conica  from  M.  esculenta,  if  they 
are  really  different  species,  as  some  writers  doubt.  For  the  table  there 
is  not  any  difference. 

M.  bi'spora  Sor. — Two-spored.  The  Two-spored  morell  is  very  simi- 
lar to  the  Half-free  morell  in  external  appearance.  It  is  distinguishable 
by  its  cap,  which  is  free  from  the  stem  almost  or  quite  to  the  top.  The 
stem  of  the  European  plant  has  been  described  as  stuffed,  but  in  our 
plant  it  is  hollow,  though  possibly  in  very  young  plants  it  may  be 
stuffed.  The  remarkable  and  very  distinctive  character  which  gives 
name  to  the  species  can  only  be  seen  by  the  aid  of  a  microscope.  In 
this  species  there  are  only  two  spores  in  each  ascus  or  sack  and  these 
are  much  larger  than  the  spores  of  the  other  species.  They  are  two  or 
three  times  longer  and  sometimes  slightly  curved.  The  spores  of  the 
other  species  are  eight  in  an  ascus  and  are  very  much  alike  in  size  and 
shape,  and  do  not  furnish  decided  specific  characters ;  but  in  this  species 
their  importance  can  not  be  overlooked.  Their  length  is  about  6o/*, 
while  in  the  others  it  is  20-25/4. 

This  is  probably  our  rarest  species.  I  am  not  aware  that  it  has  been 
found  in  but  one  locality  in  our  state.  A  few  years  ago  Mr.  H.  A. 
Warne  detected  it  growing  among  fallen  leaves  in  a  ravine  near  Oneida. 
I  have  not  tested  its  edible  qualities,  but  would  have  no  hesitation  in 
eating  it  if  opportunity  should  be  afforded.  Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Var.  trunca'ta.  Pileus  broadly  rounded  or  truncate,  its  costae  slightly 
prominent,  the  margin  often  a  little  recurved;  paraphyses  numerous. 
Stem  long. 

Michigan.     May.     Hicks.     Peck,  46th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

M.  angus'ticeps  Pk. — angustus,  narrow ;  caput,  head.  Pileus  oblong- 
conical  and  subobtuse  or  narrowly  conical  and  acute,  adnate  to  the  stem, 
1-2  in.  high,  and  about  half  as  broad  at  the  base,  ribs  longitudinal, 
here  and  there  anastomosing  or  connected  by  transverse  veins.  Stem 
subequal,  hollow,  whitish,  furfuraceous  without  and  within,  even  or 
rarely  rough  with  irregular  longitudinal  furrows ;  asci  cylindrical.  Spores 
elliptical,  whitish  tinged  with  ocher,  20—25x12.5-18/4;  paraphyses 
short,  clavate,  with  one  or  two  septa  near  the  base. 

544 


Helvellacese 


West  Albany  Moreheiia. 


Sandy  soil  in  the  borders  of  woods  and  in  open  places, 
and  Center.     April  and  May. 

Two  forms  occur,  one  with  the  pileus  oblong-conical,  rather  obtuse, 
often  tipped  with  a  slight  umbo  or  papilla,  and  with  a  diameter  a  little 
surpassing  that  of  the  stem  from  which  the  base  is  separated  by  a  slight 
groove;  the  other  with  the  pileus  narrowly  conical,  rather  acute, 
scarcely  exceeding  the  stem  in  diameter  and  without  any  separating 
groove.  The  stem  and  fruit  are  alike  in  both  forms.  The  stem  is 
usually  about  equal  in  length  to  the  pileus.  The  species  is  related  to 
M.  conica  and  M.  elata,  but  may  be  separated  from  both  by  the  size  of 
the  spores  and  the  character  of  the  paraphyses.  In  our  plant  I  have 
never  seen  these  as  long  as  the  asci.  Large  forms  appear  also  to  ap- 
proach M.  rimosipes,  but  that  species  has  the  margin  of  the  pileus  more 
free,  the  stem  proportionately  longer,  and  the  paraphyses  as  long  as 
the  asci,  if  we  may  rely  upon  the  figure  of  it.  Our  plant  is  edible. 
Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

The  plants  are  commonly  2-3  in.  high,  with  the  cap  generally  less 
than  an  inch  broad  in  its  widest  part,  but 

sometimes    much  larger  specimens  occur.  (Plate CXLVIII.) 

Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 


M.  semilib'era  B.C. — half-free.  The  Half- 
free  morell  has  a  conical  cap,  the  lower  half 
of  which  is  free  from  the  stem.  It  rarely  ex- 
ceeds i  in.  or  i  %  in.  in  length,  and  is  usually 
much  shorter  than  its  stem.  The  pits  on  its 
surface  are  longer  than  broad.  Deformed 
specimens  occur  in  which  the  cap  is  hemi- 
spherical and  very  blunt  or  obtuse  at  the 
apex ;  in  others  it  is  abruptly  narrowed  above 
and  pointed. 

The  plants  are  2-4  in.  high.  The  species  is 
rare  with  us.  Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  pale-yellow. 

Odor  feeble,  becomes  stronger  in  drying. 

Much  less  sapid  than  M.  esculenta.     Neither 

of  these  funguses  should   be  gathered  after 

rain,  as  they  are  then  insipid  and  soon  spoil. 

35  545 


MORCHELLA    SEMILIBERA. 


Badham. 


Helvellaceae 


GYROMI'TKA  Fr. 

Gyro,  to  turn;   mitra,  a  head-covering. 

Gyromitra.  Ascophore  stipitate  ;  hymenophore  subglobose,  inflated  and  more  or 
less  hollow,  or  cavernous,  variously  gyrose  and  convolute  at  the  surface, 
which  is  everywhere  covered  with  the  hymenium  ;  substance  fleshy  ; 
asci  cylindrical,  8-spored.  Spores  uniseriate,  elongated,  hyaline  or 
nearly  so,  continuous;  paraphyses  present. 

Helvetia  of  old  authors. 

Distinguished  from  Morchella  by  the  thick,  brain-like  folds  of  the 
hymenophore  not  anastomosing  to  form  irregularly  polygonal  depres- 
sions ;  and  from  Helvella  in  the  hymenophore  not  being  free  from  the 
stem  at  the  base. 

Growing  on  the  ground.     Massee. 


(Plate  CXLVIIIa.) 


G.  esculen'ta   Fr.      (Plate   VI,    fig.  6,    p.  6.)      Pileus    rounded, 
lobed,  irregular,  gyrose-convolute,  glabrous,  bay-red. 
gtem  stout^  stuffed  or  hollow,  whitish,  often  irregular. 
Spores  elliptical,  binucleate,  yellowish,  20-22/x  long. 
The  Edible  gyromitra,  formerly  known  as  Helvella 
esculenta,    is   easily  recognized    by   its    chestnut-red 
irregularly  rounded  and  lobed  cap  with  its  brain-like 
convolutions.     The  margin  of  the  cap  is  attached  to 
the  stem  in  two  or  three  places.     When  cut  through 
it  is  found  to  be  hollow,  whitish  within  and  uneven, 
with  a  few  prominent  irregular  ribs  or  ridges.     The 
stem  is  whitish,  slightly  scurfy,  and  when  mature,  hol- 
low.    In  large  specimens  it  sometimes  appears  as  if 
formed  by  the  union  of  two  or  more  smaller  ones. 
The  plant  is  2—4  in.   high  and  the  cap  commonly  2—3   in.  broad. 
Specimens  sometimes  occur  weighing  a  pound  each.   It  is  fond  of  sandy 
soil  and  is  found  in  May  and  June.      It  grows  chiefly  in  wet  weather  or 
in  wet  ravines  or  springy  places  in  the  vicinity  of  pine  groves  or  pine 
trees.     Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

G.  esculenta  crispa  n.  var.     Whole  surface  of  the  pileus  finely  reticu- 
lated with  anastomosing  costae  (ribs  or  veins). 

Under  evergreens.     North   Elba.     June.     Peck,    5ist  Rep.   N.   Y, 
State  Bot. 

546 


SECTION  OF  GYRO- 
MITRA ESCULENTA. 


Helvellaceee 

Since  1882  myself  and  friends  have  repeatedly  eaten  it.    In  no  instance  Gyromitra. 
was  the  slightest  discomfort  felt  from  it.      It  was  always  enjoyed.      Mr. 
Charles  H.  Allen,  San  Jose,  Cal.,  writes  to  me  that  G.  esculenta  grows 
plentifully  in  his  region,  and  that  it  is  not  only  edible,  but  he  has  found 
it  one  of  the  best.      But  the  species,  though  long  ago  esteemed  highly 
in  Europe  and  by  many  in  America,  now  rests  under  decided  suspicion. 
It  is  not  probable  that  in  our  great  food-giving  country  anyone  will  be 
narrowed  to  G.  esculenta  for  a  meal.     Until  such  an  emergency  arrives, 
the  species  would  be  better  let  alone.     If  utilized  employ  only  perfectly 
fresh  and  sound  specimens. 

G.  cur'tipes  Fr. — curtus,  short;  pes,  afoot.  Pileus  inflated,  gyrosely 
undulated,  oblong,  rotund,  at  first  pallid  then  brownish;  margin  of 
pileus  closely  adnexed  to  the  stem.  Stem  irregular,  short  or  almost 
absent.  Asci  cylindrical.  Spoi'idia  .30x9^1  fusiform,  uninucleate. 
Paraphyses  clavate. 

On  the  ground.  Spring.  Readily  distinguished  from  other  species 
by  the  almost  obliterated  stem.  Fries  commends  it  highly  as  an 
esculent. 

Separated  from  G.  esculenta  by  paler  color,  shorter  stem  and  differ- 
ent spores. 

G.  Carolillia'na  (Bosc.)  Fr.  Pileus  rotund,  base  free,  surface 
woven  into  deep  irregular  undulating  folds.  Stem  conical,  sulcate. 
Asci  cylindrical.  Sporidia  3-3. 2x I/A;  somewhat  fusiform;  paraphyses 
thickened  toward  the  top. 

In  woods.      Esculent. 

Massachusetts.      Sprague. 

(  Plate  CXLIX.) 

G.  brun'nea  Underwood — brunneus,  brown.  A 
stout,  fleshy,  stipitate  plant,  3-5  in.  high,  bearing 
a  broad,  much  contorted,  brown  ascoma.  Stem 
%  —  i.$  in.  thick,  more  or  less  enlarged  and  spongy, 
solid  at  the  base,  hollow  below,  rarely  slightly 
fluted,  clear  white;  receptacle  2-4  in.  across  in  the 
widest  direction,  the  two  diameters  usually  consid- 
erably unequal,  irregularly  lobed  and  plicate,  in  places 

,   .    .,  ,  .    ,  ,         .    j.     .  .          GYROMITRA  BRUN- 

famtly  marked  into  areas  by    indistinct  anastomosing  NEA 

ridges,  closely  cohering  with  the  stem  in  the  various 

547 


Helvellaceee 


Gyromitra.  parts,  rich  chocolate-brown  or  somewhat  lighter  if  much  covered  with 
the  leaves  among  which  it  grows,  whitish  underneath;  asci  8-spored. 
Spores  oval,  28-307*.  long,  by  about  14^  wide,  hyaline,  somewhat 
roughened-tuberculate,  usually  nucleate,  the  highly  refractive  nucleus 
spherical  or  oval,  II/A  or,  if  oval,  14x11;*  in  diameter;  paraphyses 
slender,  enlarged  at  the  apex,  faintly  septate. 

In  rich  woods,  mostly  in  beech-leaf  mold.  Putnam  county,  Ind., 
May,  1892,  1893  an<3  1894.  First  found  by  Dr.  W.  V.  Brown. 

The  plant  is  esculent,  tender  and  possesses  a  fine  flavor.  Often  as 
many  as  8  or  10  plants  would  be  found  in  one  small  area,  but  the  plant 
appears  to  be  local  and  never  very  abundant.  Some  single  plants  would 
weigh  nearly  half  a  pound. 


Mitrula. 


MI'TRULA  Fr. 
(Emended,  Massee.) 

Ascophore  stipitate,  fleshy.     Head  subglobose,  ovate,  or  clavate, 

even,  glabrous,  everywhere  covered  with  the 
(Plate  CL.)  hymenium,  adnate  throughout  to  the  more  or 

less  elongated  stem ;  asci  cylindric-clavate, 
8-spored.  Spores  narrowly  elliptic-fusiform, 
hyaline,  continuous  or  septate,  irregularly 
I— 2-seriate;  paraphyses  present.  Fries. 

M.  vitelli'na  Sacc.,  var.  irregularis  Pk. — 
vitellus,  egg-yolk.  Pileus  clavate,  often 
irregular  or  compressed  and  somewhat  lobed, 
obtuse,  glabrous,  yellow,  tapering  below  into 
the  short,  rather  distinct,  yellowish  or  whitish 
stem.  Spores  narrowly  elliptical,  8-iOju,  long. 

When  the  Irregular  mitrula  is  well  grown 
and  symmetrical  it  closely  resembles  the 
typical  European  plant,  but  usually  the  clubs 
or  caps  are  curved,  twisted,  compressed  or 
lobed  in  such  a  way  that  it  is  difficult  to  find 
two  plants  just  alike.  The  plants  are  usually 
only  one  or  two  inches  high,  so  that  they 

would  scarcely  be  thought  of  any  importance  as  an  edible  species.  But 

54* 


MlTRULLA    VITELLINA. 


Helvellacese 

sometimes  it  grows  in  considerable  profusion   in  wet  mossy  places   in  Mitmia. 
woods,  so  that  it  would  not  be  difficult  to  gather  a  pint  of  them  in  a 
short  time.      Its  beautiful  bright  yellow  color  makes  it  a  very  attractive 
object.      It  is  our  largest  species  of  Mitrula  and  occurs  in  autumn. 

It  was  first  reported  as  an  edible  species  in  the  forty-second  report. 
Its  flesh  is  tender  and  its  flavor  delicate  and  agreeable.  Peck,  48th  Rep. 

Ontario,  Dearness  (LI.  R.  4).  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsyl- 
vania. Common,  gregarious  in  moist  woods.  September  to  Novem- 
ber. Mcllvaine. 

Those  fortunate  enough  to  find  this  species  will  hunt  for  it  again 
assiduously.  Even  raw,  when  cut  in  strips,  it  makes  a  picturesque  and 
delicious  salad. 


SPATHULA'RIA  Pers. 
A  spatula. 

Receptacle  erect,  spathulate,  compressed,  hollow,  adnate  to  the  stem,  Spathniana. 
down  which  it  runs  for  some  distance  on  opposite  sides,  everywhere 
covered  with  the  hymenium.  Stem  subcylindrical,  hollow;  asci  clavate, 
apex  narrowed,  8-spored.  Spores  elongated,  cylindric-clavate,  multi- 
septate  at  maturity,  arranged  in  a  parallel  fascicle  in  the  ascus;  para- 
physes  filiform,  septate. 

Distinguished  by  the  broad,  flattened  ascophore  running  down  oppo- 
site sides  of  the  stem. 

Growing  on  pine  leaves  or  on  the  ground  among  moss.     Massee. 

Resembling  a  spatha,  an  instrument  for  stirring  a  liquid,  shaped  like 
an  apothecary's  spatula. 

Pileus  irregular,  compressed,  folded,  running  down  into  the  stem  on 
either  side. 

S.  clava'ta  ( Schaeff. )  Sacc. — club-shaped.  S.  flavida  Pers.  Elvela 
clavata  Schaeff .  (Plate  CXXXVI,  p.  508.)  Head  spathulate  or  broadly 
clavate,  obtuse  or  sometimes  more  or  less  divided  at  the  apex,  hollow, 
much  compressed,  running  down  the  stem  for  some  distance  on  opposite 
sides,  glabrous,  margin  crisped  or  undulated,  surface  wavy  or  slightly 
lacunose,  yellow,  rarely  tinged  red,  .8—1.2  in.  high,  .6—1  in.  broad. 
Stem  white  then  tinged  yellow,  1.2-2.4  m-  long*  -2~3  lmes  thick, 

549 


Helvellaceae 


spathuiaria.  hollow,  cylindrical  or  slightly  compressed;  asci  clavate,  apex  narrowed, 
8-spored.  Spores  arranged  in  a  parallel  fascicle,  hyaline,  linear-clavate, 
usually  very  slightly  bent,  multiguttulate  then  multiseptate,  50—60x3.5— 
4/u-;  paraphyses  filiform,  septate,  often  branched,  tips  not  thickened, 
wavy.  Mas  see. 

New  York.  Woods  in  hilly  and  mountainous  districts.  Common. 
Peck,  22d  Rep. 

Professor  Peck  gives  S.  rugosa,  which  has  the  club  wrinkled. 

This  odd,  pretty  little  plant  was  found  by  me  in  great  numbers  at 
Eagle's  Mere,  Pa.,  August,  1897,  growing  among  mosses.  The  con- 
trast of  its  bright  yellow  paddle-shapes  against  the  moss-green  is  very 
pleasing  to  one  who  loves  choice  bits  of  color.  Its  consistency  when 
stewed  is  tenacious  but  tender,  and  its  flavor  is  delicate. 


Geoglossnm.       (Plate  CLI.) 


GEOGLOS'SUM  Pers. 
(Emended.) 

Entire  fungus  more  or  less  clavate,  erect,  the  apical, 
thickened  portion  everywhere  covered  with  the  hymen- 
ium  ;  glabrous  or  hairy,  often  viscid;  asci  clavate, 
apex  narrowed,  8-spored.  Spores  elongated,  ar- 
ranged in  a  parallel  fascicle,  cylindrical  or  very  slightly 
thickened  above  the  middle,  and  inclined  to  become 
cylindric-clavate,  brown,  septate,  usually  slightly 
curved;  paraphyses  septate,  brown  at  the  tips,  often 
longer  than  the  asci. 

Distinguished  among  the  clavate  species  by  the  long, 
narrow,  brown,  septate  spores.  The  entire  plant  is 
black  in  all  British  species. 

Growing  on  the  ground,  among  grass,  etc.     Massee. 


GEOGLOSSUM 
GLUTINOSUM. 

About  nat.  size. 


G.  glutino'sum  Pers.  Ascophore  1.5-2  in. 
black,  glabrous;  ascigerous  portion  about  K  of  the  en- 
tire length,  oblong,  lanceolate,  up  to  .4  in.  broad,  ob- 
tuse, slightly  viscid,  more  or  less  compressed,  passing 
imperceptibly  into  the  somewhat  slender,  cylin- 
drical, viscid,  brownish-black  stem  ;  asci  clavate,  taper- 
550 


Helvellacese 

ing  downward  into  a  long,  slender  pedicel.  Spores  8,  arranged  more  Geogiossum. 
or  less  parallel  near  the  apex  of  the  ascus,  cylindrical,  ends  obtuse, 
3~septate  and  clear-brown  at  maturity,  straight  or  very  slightly  curved, 
65-75x5-6)".;  paraphyses  numerous,  distinctly  septate,  about  2p.  thick, 
pale-brown,  apex  broadly  pyriform  and  filled  with  dark-brown  coloring 
matter. 

On  the  ground  among  grass,  etc. 

The  most  important  features  of  the  present  species  are  3-septate 
brown  spores  and  compressed  ascophore.  Massee. 

New  Jersey,  E.  B.  Sterling.  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  August,  1899, 
gregarious  in  wet  ground.  Over  a  quart  found  in  one  patch.  Mc- 
Ilvaine. 

Stewed  it  is  delicious. 


531 


Pezizee 

FAMILY.— PEZIZ-ffi. 

PEZI'ZA  Linn. 
Pezizce,  a  sort  of  mushroom  without  root  or  stalk,  mentioned  by  Pliny. 

Peziza.  Ascophore  sessile,  but  sometimes  narrowed  to  a  short,  stem-like  base, 
fleshy  and  brittle,  closed  at  first,  then  expanding  until  cup-shaped, 
saucer-shaped,  or  in  some  species  quite  plane  or  even  convex ;  disk  even, 
nodulose  or  veined;  externally  warted,  scurfy,  or  rarely  almost  glabrous  ; 
cortical  cells  irregularly  polygonal;  asci  cylindrical,  8-spored.  Spores 
obliquely  i-seriate,  continuous,  hyaline  (rarely  tinged  brown),  elliptical, 
epispore  smooth  or  rough;  paraphyses  present.  Dill.  Emended. 
Mas  see. 

The  genus  is  large.  Professor  Peck  reports  150  American  species. 
Some  are  large,  others  require  the  microscope  to  find  them. 

They  are  rather  indiscriminate  in  their  habitats;  some  are  eccentric; 
these  grow  on  damp  walls,  on  dung,  in  cellars  and  cisterns,  on  spent 
hops  and  on  old  fungi.  One  or  two  species  grow  on  sticks  under  water, 
an  unusual  place  for  fungi  of  any  kind.  Minute  species  grow  upon 
stems  of  herbaceous  plants;  nine  or  ten  upon  the  nettle.  Two  species 
contain  a  milky  fluid,  P.  succosa  and  P.  saniosa.  Many  are  known  in 
Europe  which  have  not  been  found  in  America.  European  authors 
differ  as  to  their  qualities;  some  call  them  insipid,  some  speak  of  them 
with  kindly  respect.  Much  depends  upon  their  cooking.  They  are, 
as  a  rule,  tenacious  in  texture.  To  cook  them  properly  requires  time 
and  slow  stewing.  They  then  become  soft  and  rather  glutinous.  Their 
flavor  is  slight  but  pleasant,  and  their  consistency  agreeable. 

ANALYSIS  OF  TRIBES. 

I. — ALEURIA.     Page  553. 
Externally  powdered  or  with  a  woolly  scurf. 

II. — LACHNEA.     Page  558. 
Externally  hairy  or  downy. 

III. — PMIALEA. 
Externally  almost  naked,  smooth.     No  edible  species  reported. 

552 


Pezizae 

I. — ALEURIA  Fr. 

Fleshy  or   fleshy-membranaceous,    externally  powdered    or  with  a  Peziza. 
woolly  scurf. 

*  Macropodes — macros,  long;  podes,  feet.  Stem  firm,  elongated, 
furrowed. 

**  Cochleata — cochleatus,  spiral.      Subsessile,  oblique  or  twisted. 

***  Cupulares.      Subsessile,  regular. 

****  Humaria.  Small,  somewhat  fleshy,  margin  downy.  (None 
known  to  be  edible.) 

*****  Enccelia.   More  or  less  coriaceous.    (None  known  to  be  edible.) 

*  Macropodes.     Stem  firm,  elongated,  etc. 

P.  aceta'bulum  Linn. — a  cup.  Ascophore  stipitate,  cup-shaped, 
fleshy,  rather  tough,  disk  dark  umber-brown,  externally  paler  and  mi- 
nutely scurfy  or  flocculose;  mouth  somewhat  contracted;  1.2—2  in. 
broad,  1.2-1.4  in.  high.  Stem  .4-. 6  in.  high,  often  .4  in.  thick,  im- 
perfectly hollow,  with  parallel  or  anastomosing  ribs,  which  continue  for 
some  distance  up  the  ascophore  as  branching  veins,  pale  umber;  cells 
of  the  cortex  give  off  short,  rather  closely  septate  hyphae  in  groups ; 
asci  cylindrical,  8-spored.  Spores  obliquely  i-seriate,  hyaline,  smooth, 
broadly  elliptical,  ends  obtuse,  with  a  very  large  oil-globule,  i8-22x 
I2-I4/*;  paraphyses  straight,  septate,  the  brownish,  clavate  tip  5-6/w. 
thick. 

The  fluted  stem  and  veined  outside  of  the  excipulum  mark  the  pres 
ent  species.     The  colorless  hypothecium  is  composed  of  very  densely 
and  compactly  interwoven  hyphae.     Massee. 

Season  spring. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis ;  New  Jersey,  Ellis;  Massachusetts,  Frost; 
Rhode  Island,  Bennett;  Ohio,  Lloyd,  R.  4. 

Esculent.      Cordier,  Cooke. 

P.  ma'cropus  Pers. — macros,  long;  potts,  a  foot.  Solitary,  1-3  in. 
high,  cups  1—2  in.  broad.  The  cups  become  expanded,  and  sometimes 
reflexed ;  the  exterior  is  ash-colored  and  clothed  with  little  hairy  or  vil- 
lous  warts,  the  hairs  consisting  of  concatenate  cells,  their  extremities 
free.  The  stem  is  enlarged  downward,  often  pitted,  occasionally  be- 
coming hollow  with  age.  Phillies. 

553 


Pezizae 

Peziza.  Asci  cylindrical,  8-spored.  Spores  I -seriate,  smooth,  hyaline,  el- 
liptical, 28—33x11  —  13^;  paraphyses  straight,  tips  brownish  and  thick- 
ened in  a  clavate  manner  up  to  8—  lop-  Massee. 

On  the  ground  in  shady  places.      Summer  and  autumn. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  New  Jersey,  Ellis;  Minnesota,  Johnson;  Mas- 
sachusetts, Frost;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  22. 

Esculent.      Cordier. 

**  Cochlea'ta.     Subsessile,  oblique,  etc. 

P.  veno'sa  Pers. — venosus,  full  of  veins.  Smell  strong,  nitrous ; 
sessile  or  contracted  into  a  short,  stout,  stem-like  base;  cup-shaped  and 
with  the  margin  incurved  when  young,  then  expanding  and  the  margin 
becoming  more  or  less  split  or  lobed  and  wavy,  1.2-2  in.  across;  disk 
umber-brown,  externally  whitish,  minutely  granular,  and  furnished  with 
rather  stout,  anastomosing  ribs  which  radiate  from  the  base;  excipulum 
pseudoparenchymatous,  cells  largest  at  the  periphery,  where  some  run 
out  as  clavate,  free  tips ;  asci  cylindrical,  8-spored.  Spores  obliquely 
i-seriate,  smooth,  hyaline,  often  with  I  large  oil-globule,  elliptical,  ends 
obtuse,  wall  rather  thick,  18-24x1 1—13;*;  paraphyses  septate,  tips 
clavate,  brownish.  On  the  ground.  Spring.  Massee. 

Massachusetts,  Frost;  California,  H ' .  and  M.;  Rhode  Island,  Bennett; 
New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  24. 

Edible.  Has  a  most  decided  nitrous  odor  and  also  fungoid  flavor. 
Cooke. 

P.  ba'dia  Pers. — of  a  brown  or  bay  color.     (Plate  CLII,  p.  554.) 

Gregarious  or  cespitose,  sessile  or  narrowed  into  a  very  short,  stout, 
stem-like  base  and  often  more  or  less  lacunose ;  subglobose  and  closed  at 
first,  then  cup-shaped  or  more  expanded,  margin  entire  or  nearly  so,  the 
entire  cup  often  wavy,  rather  thick,  1.2-2  in.  across;  disk  dark-brown, 
externally  paler-brown  and  minutely  granular,  often  with  a  purple  tinge ; 
hypothecium  and  excipulum  formed  of  stout,  septate,  irregularly  in- 
flated hyphae,  hypothecium  compact,  excipulum  spongy  and  cavernous; 
cortex  compact,  the  hyphae  running  out  in  irregular  lumps  to  form  the 
external  granulations;  asci  cylindrical,  apex  truncate,  8-spored.  Spores 
obliquely  i-seriate,  hyaline,  continuous,  elliptical,  with  one  large  oil- 

554 


PLATE  CLII. 


m 

N 
N 


03 
> 
D 


Pezizse 

globule,  minutely  warted  at  maturity,  15—19x9—10^;   paraphyses  sep-  Peziza. 
tate,  tips  slightly  clavate. 

On  the  ground  among  grass,  etc.,  also  on  scorched  places. 

Readily  distinguished  by  the  bay  or  umber-brown  disk,  and  the  mi- 
nutely-warted  spores.  Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  California,  H.  and  M.;  Minnesota,  Johnson; 
Nebraska,  Clements;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  25. 

Alabama.  On  ground,  Alabama  Bull.  No.  80,  West  Virginia,  New 
Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  On  ground.  Frequent.  July  to  October.  Mc- 
llvaine, 

Esculent.      Cordier. 

P.  badia  is  frequent  on  bare  ground,  along  wood  roads,  etc.  In  the 
West  Virginia  mountains  it  occurs  where  there  have  been  brush  fires. 
It  is  a  meaty  plant,  without  much  flavor.  It  must  be  cut  fine  and  slowly 
cooked  if  stewed,  or  can  be  quickly  fried  in  a  hot  buttered  pan.  It  has 
more  flavor  fried  crisp  than  stewed. 

P.  COChlea'ta — spiral.  Sessile,  cespitose,  variously  contorted  and 
plicate,  fleshy,  brittle,  disk  umber-brown,  externally  paler  and  pruinose, 
sometimes  altogether  paler  and  leather-color  or  pale  dingy-ochraceous, 
2—3.2  in.  diameter;  when  solitary  or  almost  so,  at  first  globose,  then 
expanding  with  the  margin  involute,  finally  spreading  and  irregularly 
plicate;  excipulum  spongy  and  cavernous,  due  to  the  loose  weft  formed 
by  interlacing,  hyaline,  thin-walled,  flaccid,  septate  hyphae,  cortex  com- 
pact, running  out  into  irregular  groups  of  cells  that  form  the  scurfy  ex- 
terior; asci  cylindrical,  apex  slightly  truncate,  8-spored.  Spores  ob- 
liquely i-seriate,  hyaline,  continuous,  smooth,  usually  2-guttulate, 
16-18x7-8^;  paraphyses  slender,  septate;  tip  slightly  clavate,  often 
curved  and  sometimes  branched. 

The  entire  substance  is  brittle  and  rather  watery,  and  usually  assumes 
a  yellowish  tint  when  bruised.  Smell  and  taste  almost  none. 

Sometimes  the  ascophores  are  closely  crowded,  hence  irregular  and 
much  contorted,  and  resembling  a  foliaceous  Tremella  or  a  small  speci- 
men of  Sparassis  crispa.  Massee. 

New  York.  Ground  in  woods.  Helderberg  mountains  and  Green- 
bush.  June.  Peck,  Rep.  23;  Alabama,  Peters,  Ala.  Bull.  No.  80; 
North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Frost;  Ohio,  Lloyd,  Rep.  4. 

555 


Pezizae 

Peziza.       This  species  is  quite  insipid  and  somewhat  leathery,  but  Mr.  Berke- 
ley has  seen  it  offered  for  sale  under  the  name  of  Morell.     Badham. 
Esculent.      Cordier,  Cooke. 

P.  lepori'lia  Batsch. — lepus,  a  hare.  Cup  1-3  in.  high,  1-3  in. 
broad,  gregarious,  often  cespitose;  margin  involute,  divided  to  the  base 
on  one  side;  disk  even  or  rarely  wrinkled,  a  shade  darker  than  the  ex- 
terior; paraphyses  slender,  hardly  thickened  at  the  summits,  but  al- 
most invariably  crooked.  This  fine  species  grows  as  large  as  O.  onotica 
at  times,  but  is  not  so  brightly  colored,  being  throughout  of  a  sober 
tan-color,  resembling  common  wash  leather  used  for  cleaning  plate. 
Phillips. 

Asci  cylindrical,  8-spored.  Spores  obliquely  uniseriate,  hyaline, 
smooth,  continuous,  1-2  guttulate,  elliptical,  12-15x7-8^;  paraphyses 
filiform,  septate,  apex  slightly  swollen,  and  usually  strongly  curved. 

On  the  ground  in  woods,  ^among  leaves,  etc.     Massee. 

California,  edible,  H.  and  M. 

Esculent.      Cordier. 

P.  onotica  Pers.  Very  variable  in  form,  usually  elongated  on  one 
side  and  ear-shaped,  but  sometimes  almost  equal-sided  and  entire,  1-3 
in.  high,  up  to  2  in.  wide,  becoming  narrowed  to  a  more  or  less 
wrinkled,  short  stem-like  base;  disk  pale  orange,  usually  with  a  rosy 
tinge,  externally  pale  tawny-orange.  Asci  elongated,  narrowly  cylin- 
drical, 8-spored.  Spores  obliquely  i-seriate,  hyaline,  smooth,  colorless, 
ends  obtuse,  i-2-guttulate,  14-1 5x8-9/1.;  paraphyses  straight,  septate, 
apex  clavate. 

On  the  ground  in  woods,  among  leaves,  etc.     Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Iowa,  Fitzpatrick  (LI.  R.  4);  New  York, 
Peck,  Rep.  28. 

Esculent.      Cordier. 

P.  linici'sa  Pk. — implying  one  incision.  Clip  large,  thin,  split  on 
one  side  to  the  base,  sessile  or  with  a  short  stem,  externally  wrinkled, 
minutely  pulverulent  under  a  lens,  yellow,  within  pale-yellow  slightly 
tinged  with  pink.  Spores  elliptical,  usually  containing  two  nuclei,  12- 

<*« 

Ground  in  woods       Croghan.     September. 

556 


Pezizae 

The  cups  are  about  two  inches  broad.  The  species  is  related  to  P. 
onotica.  Peck,  26th  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Minnesota,  Johnson;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.-  On  ground  in  mixed  woods, 
gravelly  ground.  September  to  October.  McILvaine. 

Many  specimens  were  found  scattered  and  in  patches,  and  were  eaten. 
They  were  of  slight  flavor  but  good. 

P.  auran'tia  Pers.  (Plate  CXXXVI,  fig.  3,  p.  508.)  Sessile  or 
protracted  into  a  very  short  stem-like  base,  cespitose  and  irregular,  or 
growing  singly  and  then  circular  in  outline  and  regular,  becoming 
almost  plane;  thin,  brittle,  disk  clear,  deep  orange  or  sometimes  orange- 
red,  externally  much  paler,  or  sometimes  almost  white,  with  a  pink 
tinge,  delicately  tomentose,  due  to  the  presence  of  short,  stout,  blunt, 
i-2-septate  hyaline  hairs ;  varying  from  ^-3.2  in.  broad.  Spores  15— 
16x7-8^. 

On  the  ground,  often  near  stumps  or  among  chips. 

Sometimes  crowded,  large,  with  the  margin  raised  and  very  much 
waved  and  more  or  less  incised,  at  others  scattered,  smaller,  almost  or 
quite  even  and  finally  spread  flat  on  the  ground.  Easily  recognized  by 
the  large  size,  bright  orange  disk,  pale,  downy  exterior,  and  the  broadly 
elliptical  spores  covered  with  a  delicate  net-work  of  raised  lines  at 
maturity.  Massee. 

Massachusetts,  Frost;  Rhode  Island,  Bennett;  Minnesota,  Johnson; 
California,  H.  and  M. ;  Alabama,  Peters;  New  York,  October,  Peck, 
23,  24  Rep.;  Indiana,  Richmond,  November,  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist;  West 
Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  On  ground.  September  to  Octo- 
ber. Mcllvaine. 

Esculent.      Cordier. 

At  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  patches  of  it  twenty  feet  long,  made  the  ground 
along  a  road  on  the  margin  of  a  woods  golden  with  its  clusters.  The 
plants  grew  from  sand  mixed  with  leaf-mold.  I  have  eaten  it  for  fifteen 
years.  Fair  flavor. 

***  Cupulares.     S^lbsessilet  etc. 

P.  repan'da  Wahlenb. — bent' backward.  Clustered  or  scattered,  sub- 
sessile,  contracted  into  a  short,  stout,  stem-like  base,  which  is  often 
rooting;  saucer-shaped,  then  quite  expanded  and  the  margin  more  or 

557 


Pezizae 

Peziza.  less  split  and  wavy,  sometimes  drooping  and  revolute,  extreme  edge 
often  crenate ;  1.6—4  m-  across;  disk  pale  or  dark  brown  or  umber, 
more  or  less  wrinkled  toward  the  center,  externally  whitish,  minutely 
granular.  Spores  obliquely  i -seriate,  hyaline,  smooth,  continuous, 
elliptical,  ends  obtuse,  18— 22x1 1— 12/x;  paraphyses  septate,  clavate  and 
brownish  at  the  tips.  Massee. 

On  the  ground,  often  in  beech-woods;   also  on  decayed  trunks. 

New  York,  Ellis;  Minnesota,  Johnson;  Ohio,  Lloyd,  R.  4.  New 
York.  Ground  and  decaying  wood.  Croghan.  September.  Peck, 
28th  Rep. 

Specimens  sent  to  the  writer  by  Dr.  W.  B.  Miller,  Altoona,  Pa.,  were 
3;^  in.  across,  and  a  beautiful  velvety  brown.  Cooked  they  had  a 
mushroom  flavor. 

P.  vesiculo'sa  Bull. — full  of  bladders.  Clustered,  often  distorted 
from  mutual  pressure,  sessile  but  more  or  less  narrowed  at  the  base, 
globose  and  closed  at  first,  then  expanding,  but  the  margin  usually  re- 
maining more  or  less  incurved  and  somewhat  notched  ;  disk  pale  brown, 
externally  brownish  and  coarsely  granular  from  the  presence  of  minute, 
irregular  warts,  1.2—3  m-  across.  Spores  obliquely  i-seriate,  smooth, 
hyaline,  continuous,  elliptical,  ends  obtuse,  21—  24x1 1— 12/x;  paraphyses 
slender,  septate,  clavate. 

Var.  ce'rea  Rehm.  Similar  in  size,  habit  and  general  structure  to  the 
typical  form;  differing  in  the  wax-yellow  color,  the  more  distinct  stem- 
like  base,  and  the  slightly  smaller  spores,  i8-i9xio/x.;  very  brittle. 
Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  California,  H.  and  M.;  Massachusetts,  Frost ; 
New  Jersey,  Ellis;  Ohio,  Lloyd,  Rep.  4;  var.  minor,  Sacc.;  Nebraska, 
Clements;  New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  25. 

Esculent.      Cordier. 

II. — LACHNEA. 

P.  odora'ta  Pk.  Cups  .5-3  in.  broad,  gregarious  or  scattered,  thin, 
sessile,  rather  brittle  when  fresh,  shallow,  expanded  or  even  convex  from 
the  decurving  of  the  margin,  at  first  brownish,  then  white  or  whitish, 
the  hymenium  ochraceous-brown ;  asci  cylindrical,  opening  by  a  lid, 
.01— .012  in.  long,  .0006— .0008  in.  broad,  paraphyses  filiform,  obscurely 

558 


Pezizae 
septate,  slightly  thickened  at  the  tips.     Spores  elliptical,  even,  20-22.2  Peziza, 

XIO-I2.5/A. 

Ground  in  cellar.      Maine.     June.     F.  L.  Harvey. 

The  plant  when  fresh  has  the  peculiar  fungoid  flavor  suggestive  of 
that  of  chestnut  blossoms.  The  species  is  apparently  allied  to  P. 
Petersii,  from  which  it  may  be  distinguished  by  its  larger  spores  and 
distinct  but  peculiar  odor.  The  spores  also  are  not  binucleate,  as  in 
that  species.  In  drying,  the  hymenium  is  apt  to  become  blackish.  Peck, 
Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  23,  No.  10. 

A  cluster  4  inches  across,  in  general  appearance  resembling  P.  re- 
panda,  was  found  by  the  writer  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  June,  1898,  grow- 
ing from  between  the  staves  of  an  empty  flour  barrel  which  was  exposed 
to  the  weather.  The  margin  instead  of  being  revolute,  turned  inward 
(involute)  until  it  touched  the  short  stem.  The  cluster  was  eaten  and 
had  the  flavor  of  P.  repanda.  In  June,  1899,  several  pounds  grew  on 
and  around  the  same  barrel.  Professor  Peck  recognized  it  as  P.  odorata. 

P.  COCCi'nea  Jacq. — scarlet  or  crimson.  Geopyxis  coccinea  Mass. 
(Plate  CXXXVI,  fig.  2,  p.  508.)  Scattered  or  in  groups  of  2-3  speci- 
mens, stipitate;  at  first  closed,  then  expanding  and  becoming  shallowly 
cup-shaped,  margin  entire,  .8—1.6  in.  Across;  disk  clear  and  deep  car- 
mine, externally  whitish  or  pinkish,  delicately  tomentose,  due  to  the 
presence  of  wavy,  usually  aseptate,  hyaline,  cylindrical  hyphae,  5—  6p. 
thick.  Stem  -4-.8  in.  long,  1.2-2  in.  thick,  whitish  and  tomentose. 
Spores  I -seriate,  elliptic-oblong,  ends  obtuse,  hyaline,  wall  rather  thick 
and  forming  a  hyaline  border,  straight,  25— 30x8— 9fi;  paraphyses  very 
slender,  hardly  thickened  at  the  tips; 

On  rotten  branches  lying  on  the  ground.      Spring. 

Readily  distinguished  among  the  large,  stipitate  Pezizae  by  the  deep 
rose-red  or  carmine  disk  and  the  whitish,  tomentose  exterior.  The 
stem  varies  considerably  in  length ;  when  the  fungus  springs  from  the 
underside  of  a  branch  the  stem  is  often  elongated  and  curved.  The 
base  of  the  stem  is  attached  to  the  branch  by  a  mass  of  whitish,  tomen- 
tose mycelium.  Masses. 

New  York.  Half-buried  sticks.  April  and  May.  Peck,  2$d  Rep. ; 
New  Jersey,  E.  B.  Sterling;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  New  Jersey.  On  sticks 
on  ground.  Spring.  Mcllvaine. 

This  brilliant  fungus  is  one  of  the  beauties  of  the  woods.  Though 

•559 


Pezizae 

Peziza.  small  it  attracts  the  eye  by  its  deep  carmine  in  striking  contrast  with  the 
somber  carpeting.  It  is  frequent  when  in  season.  A  half  pint  of  it 
may  be  gathered  from  a  few  acres.  Its  substance  is  tenacious,  taste  pleas- 
ant. Mr.  Massee  mentions  that  it  is  abundant  in  some  of  the  woods 
near  Scarboro,  England,  and  is  regularly  collected  and  sold  along  with 
moss  for  decorative  purposes.  Exquisite  effects  may  be  produced  by 
arranging  the  brightly  colored  fungi  among  moss  and  leaves.  "Fairy 
Cups,"  they  are  called.  Rosy  must  be  the  lips  that  do  not  pale  beside 
them. 

P.  calyci'na  Schum. — resembling  a  bud.  Ascophores  cespitose, 
gregarious  or  scattered,  narrowed  into  a  short,  stout,  stem-like  base, 
rather  fleshy,  1-3  mm.  broad;  disk  orange-yellow,  externally  white 
and  villose,  hairs  rather  wavy,  cylindrical,  obtuse,  colorless,  minutely 
rough,  1 00-15 0x4- 5 p.;  asci  subcylindrical,  apex  obtuse,  8-spored. 
Spores  i-seriate  or  inclined  to  be  2-seriate  above,  hyaline,  elliptic-fusi- 
form, continuous,  18-25x6-8/4;  paraphyses  slender,  hyaline,  cylin- 
drical. 

On  bark  of  larch  and  Scotch  fir.     Massee. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Massachusetts,  Frost;  New  York.  Gum 
spots  on  spruce,  bark  of  pines,  Peck,  22d  Rep. 

Esculent.     Cooke. 


560 


Hypocreaceae 


COHORT  PTRENOMTCETES. 
FAMILY.— HYP  OGRE  AC  E-ffi. 

HYPO'MYCES  Fr. 

Gr. — under;    Gr. — fungus. 

Perithecia  (the  hollow  narrow-mouthed  cases  which  contain  the  Hypomyce*. 
spores)  gregarious,  with  a  cottony  stroma  in  which  they  are  more  or 
less  immersed.  Mostly  parasitic  on  various  Hymenomycetes  or  Dis- 
comycetes;  bright  colored,  with  papilliform  (nipple-shaped)  or  slightly 
elongated  ostiola  (apertures).  Asci  mostly  cylindrical,  8-spored,  with- 
out paraphyses.  Sporidia  oblong  or  fusoid,  uniseptate,  hyaline.  Co- 
nidial  stage  represented  by  Asterophora,  etc. 

This  parasite  attacks  several  species  of  fungi,  and  so  alters  their 
structure  and  appearance  that  it  is  difficult  to  distinguish  the  host-plant. 
The  attack  is  made  in  the  extreme  youth  of  the  plant.  The  writer  is 
fully  satisfied  from  his  own  observation  that  H.  lactifluorum  and  H. 
purpurea  infest  Lactarius  piperatus.  The  milk  cells  are  so  changed  by 
H.  lactifluorum  that  they  yield  no  milk.  When  attacked  by  H.  pur- 
purea the  milk  is  a  beautiful  purple.  In  both  cases  the  pepperiness  of 
the  host-plant  is  destroyed.  I  have  seen  the  same  host  plant  attacked 
by  both  forms  of  the  Hypomyces.  After  the  host-plant  of  Hypomyces 
lactifluorum  is  fully  grown,  and  infested,  it  is  frequently  attacked  by 
Hypomyces  purpureus.  Purple  spots  appear,  which  gradually  spread 
until  the  entire  plant  is  covered.  This  Hypomyces  seems  to  affect  the 
milk  cells.  A  beautiful,  profuse,  purple  fluid  results. 

The  parasite  is  proving  itself  an  enemy  to  fungi,  but  a  friend  to  man. 
Upon  L.  piperatus  and  upon  Amanita  rubescens  it  very  much  adds  to 
the  weight  of  the  plants,  and  improves  the  texture  and  edible  qualities. 
The  same  may  be  said  of  L.  volemus,  but  not  to  such  a  degree.  Prof. 
M.  W.  Easton  in  August,  1899,  found  this  species  at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa., 
attacked  by  a  parasitic  fungus  in  such  a  manner  as  to  destroy  its  milk- 
36  561 


Hypocreacese 

Hypomyces.  giving   quality  and  completely  transform   its   gills   into   a  corrugated, 
granular  surface. 

Professor  Peck,  to  whom  I  submitted  the  parasite,  thinks  it  a  new 
species  and  calls  it  H.  volemi. 

Further  study  of  Hypomyces  and  its  effect  upon  fungi,  and  of  the 
particular  host-plants  is  desirable. 

H.  lac'tifluorum  (Schw.)  Tulasne — lac,  milk;  fluerum,  flowing. 
(Plate  CXXXVI,  fig.  5,  p.  508.)  Asci  long  and  slender,  sporidia  in 
one  row,  spindle-shaped,  straight  or  slightly  curved,  rough,  hyaline, 
uniseptate,  cuspidate-pointed  at  the  ends,  30—38x6-8^. 

The  general  appearance  is  much  the  same  as  that  of  H.  aurantius 
(Pers. )  Tul.,  but  the  sporidia  are  larger,  rough  and  warted,  and  the 
felt-like  mycelium  is  wanting. 

In  the  affected  species  of  Lactarius  the  gills  are  entirely  obliterated, 
so  that  the  hymenium  of  the  agaric  presents  an  even,  orange-colored 
surface  on  which  the  subglobose  perithecia  are  thickly  bedded,  with 
only  their  slightly  prominent  reddish  ostiola  visible.  In  decay  the  color 
changes  to  a  purplish-red. 

On  Lactarius,  especially  L.  piperatus. 

New  Jersey,  Ellis;  Alabama,  U.  and  E.;  Minnesota,  Arthur;  Nova 
Scotia,  Dr.  Somers;  on  various  species  of  Lactarius,  1895,  Ala.  Bull.  ; 
South  Carolina,  Ravenel;  Pennsylvania,  Everliart. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1882;  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa., 
August  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

This  fungus  puzzled  me  for  many  years.  August,  1896,  I  sent  sev- 
eral specimens  to  Professor  Peck  of  different  colors — orange,  red,  whitish 
and  purple. 

Professor  Peck  kindly  identified  the  specimens  and  wrote :  "In  one 
the  matrix  of  the  host-plant  has  not  been  so  completely  changed  or 
transformed  as  in  the  other.  It  would  be  interesting  to  know  what 
species  of  Lactarius  it  is  that  Hypomyces  attacks.  I  have  never  been 
able  to  ascertain,  and  have  sometimes  thought  it  might  be  Cantharellus 
cibarius,  but  this  specimen  of  yours  indicates,  rather,  a  Lactarius." 

Of  the  purple  specimen  he  wrote:  "  This  is  a  beautiful  thing,  and 
as  I  find  nothing  like  it  described  I  have  given  it  a  name — Hypomyces 
purpureus  Peck." 

Well  cooked,  in  small  pieces,  it  is  one  of  the  very  best. 

562 


Hypocreacese 

' 

H.  purpu'reus  Pk. — purpureus,  purple.  Subiculum  effused,  purple,  Hypomyces. 
permeating,  transforming  and  discoloring  the  matrix;  perithecia  minute, 
sunk  in  the  subiculum,  the  ostiola  emergent,  black;  asci  cylindrical; 
spores  fusiform,  uniseptate,  purple,  with  a  cusp-like  point  at  each  end, 
35— 4O/U.  long,  7.5/4  broad,  oozing  out  and  forming  beautiful  purple 
masses  or  patches  on  the  surface  of  the  matrix. 

Pennsylvania.     August.      Charles  Mcllvaine. 

The  species  is  similar  in  all  respects  to  H.  lactifluorum,  except  in 
color.  It  is  apparently  parasitic  on  some  species  of  Lactarius,  but  the 
host  plant  is  so  transformed  and  discolored  that  the  species  is  not 
recognizable.  Peek,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  Vol.  25,  No.  6. 

H.  purpureus  Pk.  was  sent  by  the  writer  to  Professor  Peck  in  Au- 
gust, 1897,  who  wrote:  "This  is  a  beautiful  thing  and  as  I  find  noth- 
ing like  it  described,  I  have  given  it  a  name." 

Of  itself  H.  purpureus  is  a  minute  parasitic  fungus  as  above  described. 
But  it  possesses  the  power  of  so  altering  the  structure — changing  form, 
shape  and  appearance — of  the  fungus  upon  which  it  has  taken  its  abode 
that  the  host-plant,  be  it  Cantharellus  cibarius,  Craterellus  cantharellus 
or  one  of  the  Lactari,  or  whatever  the  species,  becomes  difficult  to  rec- 
ognize, so  that  it  is  not  yet  certain  upon  which  species  it  is  parasitic. 
It  may  be  upon  many. 

The  present  plant  seems  to  be  parasitic  upon  one  of  the  Lactarii.  It 
therefore  becomes  necessary  to  describe  the  host  as  it  appears  when 
possessed  by  the  parasite.  The  plant  is  variable  in  shape  from  an  ir- 
regular nodule  to  a  distorted-capped,  short-stemmed  mass,  2-4  in. 
across,  1—3  in.  high,  hard,  brittle,  coarse  in  appearance  and  rough  to 
the  touch ;  deep  orange,  wholly  or  in  part  stained  with  a  beautiful  pur- 
ple. The  purple  juice  exudes  and  dyes  everything  with  which  it  comes 
in  contact.  The  growth  is  very  heavy  for  its  size. 

To  all  appearances  it  is  the  same  host  as  is  attacked  by  Hypomyces 
lactifluorum,  resembling  it  in  every  particular  excepting  in  the  purple 
stain  and  juice. 

It  is  frequent  in  open  oak  and  chestnut  woods,  but  prefers  oak.  It 
grows  from  among  leaves  or  from  grassy  spots.  August  to  October. 

While  it  is  beautiful  in  its  coloring  it  is  not  inviting  in  appearance  as 
an  edible.  Yet  sliced,  cut  small  and  stewed  for  twenty  minutes  it  is  one 
of  the  very  best  fungi  I  have  eaten. 


Hypocreacese 

Hypomyces.  H.  vole'mi  Pk.  Subiculum  very  thin,  whitish  or  isabelline;  peri- 
thecia  minute,  brown,  nestling  in  the  subiculum;  asci  very  slender, 
1 00-125 /A  long,  sporiferous  part  4/4  broad.  Spores  oblong-fusiform, 
12—  15/w.  long,  4/A  broad,  commonly  binucleate. 

Parasitic  on  the  hymenium  of  Lactarius  volemus.  Pennsylvania. 
Charles  Mcllvaine. 

The  hymenium  of  the  host  plant  is  changed  in  appearance  by  the 
parasite,  but  the  stem  and  upper  surface  of  the  pileus  remain  unchanged. 
Peck,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club,  27,  January,  1900. 

The  edible  qualities  are  in  nowise  affected  by  the  parasite. 


564 


Tuberaceee 


X  475 


TUBER  NIVEUM  or  TERFEZIA  LEONIS. 

By  courtesy  Rev.  A.  B.  Langlois. 
A.  Plant.     B.  Interior  (section),    c.  Asci. 


FAMILY.— TUBERA'CE-ffi. 

Subterranean;   ascophore  irregularly  globose,  usually  large,  not  rup-  Tuber, 
turing. 

To  this  family  belongs  the  Truffle 

of  commerce  renowned  for  its  fla-  (Plate  CLIII.) 

voring  qualities.  It  has  not  yet 
been  found  in  America,  though 
several  fungi  are  ignorantly  bought 
in  our  markets  under  that  name ; 
notably  Coprinus  comatus  or  maned 
mushroom.  The  writer  has  fre- 
quently been  informed  with  all  the 
logical  force  of  genuine  market- 
women  that  this  was  the  real  Truffle, 
because  they  raised  it  themselves. 

Until    quite    recently  but    one 
species  of  Truffle  has  been  reported 

as  growing  in  America.  This,  Tuber  niveum  Desf.  or  Terfezia  leonis 
Tul.  was  found  by  Rev.  A.  B.  Langlois,  St.  Martinville,  La.  He  re- 
ported it  as  growing  plentifully,  buried  or  nearly  so  in  the  red  sand  land 
along  the  Red  river  near  Natchitoches.  He  writes  me:  "The  people 
where  it  is  found  are  looking  for  it  with  great  care  and  are  eating  it  with 
great  relish.  I  had  occasion  to  eat  it  once  and  I  found  it  delicious." 
He  kindly  sent  the  original  illustration  from  which  the  accompanying 
drawing  was  made.  It  was  taken  from  Jour.  Myc.,  January,  1887,  J. 
B.  Ellis,  who  first  published  a  description  of  the  American  representa- 
tive of  the  species.  He  describes  it  as  "subglobose,  up  to  full  two 
inches  in  diameter,  strongly  plicate  or  furrowed  below,  nearly  smooth 
and  pale  reddish-brown  outside,  marbled-white  within  and  of  compact 
texture  much  like  a  potato,  but  softer.  When  first  dug  from  the  ground 
the  color  is  pure  white,  the  reddish  tint  being  due  to  exposure  to  the 
air.  The  asci  obovate  or  subglobose,  75— 80x60— /O/A.  Each  contains 
eight  globose  spores,  thickly  clothed  with  obtuse,  elongated,  wart-like 
tubercles  and  about  2Op  in  diameter.  The  home  of  the  white  Truffle  is 

565 


Tuberaceae 


Tuber,  said  to  be  in  Northern  Africa,  though  it  is  not  uncommon  in  Southern 
Europe,  where  its  growth  is  favored  by  mild  winters." 

It  is  probable  that  the  Truffle  will  be  found  in  other  southern  states. 
Perhaps  in  the  north,  as  Fries  reports  that  two  specimens  were  found 
near  Linkoping,  Sweden,  and  Mr.  H.  W.  Harkness  reports  Tubers  in  the. 
Sierras  at  the  height  of  7,000  feet.      It  is  worth  hunting  for. 

It  is  possible  that  the  common  Truffle — Tuber  aestivum — will  be  found 
in  America.  Fame  awaits  the  finder.  A  description  of  it  with  illustra- 
tion is  therefore  given. 


Tuber  sesti'vum  Vitt. 


(Plate  CLIV.) 
I 


TUBER 
(Common    Truffle.) 
A.  Plant.     B.  Section  showing  interior. 


Peridium  warty,  of  a  blackish-brown  color, 
the  warts  polygonal  and  striate; 
flesh  transversed  by  numerous  veins ; 
asci  4-6-spored ;  spores  elliptical, 
reticulated. 

This  plant,  the  common  Truffle  of 
our  markets,  is  abundant  in  Wilt- 
shire and  some  other  parts  of  Eng- 
land, and  probably  occurs  in  many 
places  where  it  escapes  observation 
from  its  subterranean  habit.  Bad- 
ham. 

It  is  cultivated  largely  in  France. 
"Perigord  Truffles"  are  a  costly 

delicacy.  The  Truffle  is  of  subterranean  habit,  growing  under  various 
kinds  of  trees  and  from  12—48  in.  under  ground.  As  it  does  not  mani- 
fest its  presence  above  ground,  dogs  and  pigs  are  trained  to  find  it  by 
scent.  An  interesting  chapter  on  Truffles  will  be  found  in  British 
Edible  Fungi,  M.  C.  Cooke,  1891.  Any  plant  of  similar  habit,  when 
found,  should  be  immediately  sent  by  the  finder  to  a  known  expert  for 
identification. 

Thirteen  species  of  Tuber  and  several  Terfeziaa  are  reported  in  Cali- 
fornia, and  are  described  and  beautifully  illustrated  in  "California 
Hypogaeous  Fungi"  by  H.  W.  Harkness,  "Proceedings  of  the  Cali- 
fornia Academy  of  Sciences,"  1899. 

Terfezia  spinosa  Harkness  closely  resembles  T.  leonis  Tul.,  and  T. 
(sphaerotuber)  Californicum  n.  sp.,  found  under  oaks  beneath  vegetable 
humus  in  Alameda  county,  Cal.,  Professor  Harkness  remarks,  is  nearly 

566 


Tuberacese 


(Plate  CLV.) 


identical  with  an  edible  species  found  in  Italy.      All  species  found  in  Tuber. 
California  are  said  to  be  edible,  but  to  be  too  rare  to  be  of  food  value. 

There  is  a  well  known  growth,  found  from  New  Jersey  south  to  the 
Gulf  and  west  to  Kansas,  called  Tucka- 
hoe  (Pachyma  cocos)  .  (Plate  CLV), 
an  Indian  name  meaning  a  round  loaf  or 
cake,  and  famed  for  its  edible  qualities. 
Its  exact  place  in  plant  growth  has  been 
variously  determined.  It  is  now  con- 
ceded that  it  is  the  sclerotium  or  cellular 
reservoir  of  reserve  material  of  some 
fungus.  It  is  usually  found  attached  to 
the  roots  of  trees,  in  low  marshy  places. 
It  grows  several  feet  below  the  surface, 
and  to  the  size  of  a  man's  head.  It 
varies  in  shape,  being  oblong  or  round, 
having  a  coarse  brown  covering,  looking 
like  a  cocoanut.  Its  interior  is  white, 
compact,  without  cellular  structure;  it 
has  no  mycelium  or  trace  of  fructifica- 
tion. It  contains,  as  high  as  77  per  cent,  of  pectose  and  is  therefore 
highly  nutritious. 

For  full  accounts  see  Torrey  Bulletin,  October,  1882;  Smithsonian 
Inst.  Rep.,  1881,  p.  693;  article  by  Professor).  Howard  Gore;  also 
Garden  and  Forest,  IX,  p.  302. 

The  illustration  is  after  that  in  the  Century  Dictionary,  "  Tuckahoe." 


PACHYMA  cocos — "TUCKAHOE." 

After  Century  Dictionary. 

A.  Mass  of  Tuckahoe.     B.  Showing 

method  of  growing  around  a  root. 


567 


Gastromycetes 


SUB-CLASS  BASIDIOMYCETES. 

COHORT    GASTROMTCETES.      Gr.-gasteron,  a  sac,  etc. 


(Plate  CLVI.). 

1  A.  Exterior  skin,  bark,  rind,  cortex,  scurf, 

warts,  spines,  bristles— peridium. 
Plants  with  long  spines — echinate. 

B.  Inner  rind  or  true  peridium.     [A.  B. — 
peridia  (plural  of  peridium).] 

C.  Columella — those   filaments  springing 
from  the  base  and  rising,  which  do  not 
unite  freely  with  those  issuing  from  the 
inner  peridium.    This  mass  of  threads 
is  usually  conical,  but  sometimes  glo- 
bose. 

D.  Capillitium— a  soft  mass  of  cottony 
threads  interspersed  with  minute  dust- 
like  spores;  the  space  occupied  is  called 
the  gleba. 

E.  Coarse  empty,  sterile  cells.    The  space 
they  occupy  is  called  the  subgleba. 

F.  Echinate  spores  magnified. 

G.  Spines  (magnified)  which  fall  off  and 
leave  the  inner  peridium  exposed. 

2. 

A.  Lycoperdon  echinatum. 
B.  Spmes  (magnified)  which  fall  off  and  leave  tesselated  inner  peridium  exposed.          (After  Morgan.) 

As  has  been  stated,  the  two  Cohorts  in  which  a  hymenium  or  spore- 
bearing  surface  is  present  are  called  Hymenomycetes  and  Gastromycetes. 
In  the  first  the  hymenium  is  exposed,  as  in  the  common  mushroom.  In 
the  second — Gastromycetes — the  hymenium  is  at  first  enclosed  in  a  sac 
or  peridium,  as  in  the  common  puff-ball. 

The  botanical  description  of  Gastromycetes,  given  by  M.  C.  Cooke, 
is:  "Hymenium  more  or  less  permanently  concealed,  consisting  in 
most  cases  of  closely-packed  cells,  of  which  the  fertile  ones  bear  naked 
spores  on  distinct  spicules,  exposed  only  by  the  rupture  or  decay  of  the 
insisting  coat  or  peridium.' 

The  Gastromycetes  are  usually  large,  ground-growing  fungi.  A  few 
grow  upon  wood.  The  peridium  is  of  dense  structure,  usually  globose 

568 


Phalloideae 

and  of  considerable  thickness.  It  commonly  consists  of  two  layers. 
These  form  the  sac  holding  the  spore-bearing  structure,  which  is  called 
the  gleba.  The  gleba  consists  of  innumerable  chambers  or  cells, 
curved  and  branched,  and  only  to  be  distinguished  by  magnifying. 
The  primary  structure  is  retained  in  some  species  throughout  the  life  of 
the  plants,  excepting  changes  due  to  growth  and  maturing,  or  in  others 
these  cells  or  chambers  are  large  and  few,  and  form  distinct  peridiola, 
which  contain  the  spores. 

The  maturing  of  the  plant  and  the  consequent  changes  in  the  gleba 
is  accompanied  by  various  transformations  of  the  peridium." 

It  is  impossible  within  the  scope  of  this  book  to  even  name  all  the 
genera  of  Gastromycetes.  Professor  Morgan's  table  of  the  families  and 
table  of  the  genera  of  Lycoperdaceae  are  here  given.  The  orders  are 
defined  as  are  some  of  the  genera,  and  the  edible  species  are  described. 

TABLE  OF  FAMILIES  OF  GASTROMYCETES. 

A.   TERRESTRIAL. 
(#)  Peridium  double. 

I. — Phalloi'deae.    Page  570. 

Peridium  becoming  transformed  into  a  receptacle  of  various  shape, 
with  a  volva  at  its  base.  Gleba  becoming  dissolved  into  a  dark  green 
mass  of  jelly. 

II. — Lycoperda'cese.    Page  577. 

Peridium  sessile,  usually  with  a  more  or  less  thickened  base  or  some- 
times stipitate,  at  maturity  filled  with  a  dusty  mass  of  mingled  threads 

and  spores. 

(3)  Peridium  single. 

III. — Scleroderma'ceee.     Page  615. 

Peridium  discrete  from  the  gleba,  often  with  a  columella;  cells  of  the 
gleba  subpersistent. 

IV. — Hymenogastra'cese. 

Peridium  concrete  with  the  gleba,  indehiscent;  cells  of  the  gleba  per- 
sistent. (No  edible  species  reported.  C.  Mcllvaine.} 

569 


Gastromycetes 

B.   EPIPHYTAL. 

V . — Nidularia'c  ese . 

Peridium  cyathiform,  open  at  the  top,  containing  one  or  more  dis- 
tinct peridiola.     Morgan. 

(Small.      No  species  reported  edible.      C.  Mcllvaine.') 


A.   TERRESTRIAL. 

(#)  Peridium  double. 

FAMILY  L—  PHALLOIDE-ffi. 

Receptacle  and  gleba  at  first  enclosed  in  a  universal  volva  composed 
of  three  distinct  layers,  the  central  one  being  gelatinous  at  maturity. 
Spores  minute,  elliptic-oblong,  smooth,  when  mature  involved  in  mucus. 
Mas  see. 

Spores  3-5/*  in  length.     Morgan. 

There  are  but  few  edible  species  within  the  family,  and  those  edible 
only  when  very  young.  The  family  embraces  the  very  offensive  fungi 
known  as  stink-horns. 

TABLE  OF  GENERA. 

I.—  PHALLE^J. 

Receptacle  consisting  of  an  elongated  stipe  bearing  the  gleba  on  a 
conical  pileus  at  its  apex. 

1.  PHALLUS.     Page  571. 

Pileus  attached  only  to  the  apex  of  the  stipe,  dependent  free  all 
around  below. 

2.  MUTINUS.     Page  575. 

Pileus  wholly  adnate  to  the  summit  of  the  stipe. 


II.— 

Receptacle  a  hollow  clathrate  body,  with  the  gleba  attached  to  the 
upper  part  of  the  inner  surface. 

570 


Phalloidese 

3.    CLATHRUS. 
Receptacle  composed  of  obliquely  anastomosing  bars  and  sessile. 

4.     SlMBLUM. 

Receptacle  composed  of  obliquely  anastomosing  bars  and  stipitate. 

5.    LATERNEA. 

Receptacle  composed  of  a  few  vertical  columns  and  sessile. 

Morgan. 


I.— PHAL'LEJE. 

Receptacle  consisting  of  an  elongated  stem  bearing  the  gleba  on  a 
conical  pileus  at  its  apex.  Stem  cylindric,  hollow,  composed  of  one 
to  several  layers  of  round-celled  tissue ;  the  gleba  occupying  the  outer 
surface  of  the  pileus. 

GENUS  I.— PHAL'LUS  Mich. 

Stem  hollow  within,  the  wall  composed  of  several  layers  of  round-  phallus, 
celled  tissue.      Pileus  attached  only  to  the  apex  of  the  stipe,  dependent 
free  all  around  below,  the  gleba  occupying  its  outer  surface.      Morgan. 

The  following  synoptical  tables  will  exhibit  the  prominent  distinctive 
features  of  the  species  of  Phallus  of  this  state  (New  York)  and  the 
United  States,  so  far  as  I  am  able  to  get  them  from  the  published  de- 
scriptions and  the  specimens  at  my  command. 

NEW   YORK    SPECIES    OF   PHALLUS. 

Denuded  pileus  reticulate  with  coarse  deep  pits  or  cells. 

Veil  exposed,  reticulate  with  small  perforations 

P.  Dsemonum  Rumph. 

Veil   none P.  impudicus  L. 

Denuded  pileus  porous,  veil  not  perforate,  concealed.  .  . . 

P.  Ravenelii  B.  and  C. 

UNITED    STATES    SPECIES   OF   PHALLUS. 

Denuded  pileus  reticulate  with  coarse  deep  pits  or  cells. 
Veil  exposed. 

571 


Gastromycetes 

Phallus.       Large  and  reticulate  with  large  perforations P.  indusiatus  Vent. 

Smaller  and  reticulate  with  small  perforations.?.  Daemonum  Rumph. 

Smaller  and  plicate P.  duplicatus  Bosc. 

Veil  none P.  impudicus  L. 

Denuded  pileus  even  or  merely  porous. 

Veil  short,  concealed  beneath  the  pileus P.  Ravenelii  B.  and  C. 

Veil  none P.  rubicundus  Bosc. 

Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 


I . — H  YMENOPH  AL'LUS  . 

An  indusium  or  veil  surrounding  the  stipe  and  dependent  from  its 
apex  beneath  the  pileus. 

a.    Veil  reticulate ,  hanging  below  the  pileus. 

P.  Dse'moimm  Rumph.  Volva  globose,  not  very  thick,  pinkish; 
segments  3  or  4,  irregular.  Stem  cylindric,  tapering  at  each  end,  cel- 
lulose; the  veil  reticulate,  somewhat  expanded  and  bell-shaped,  hang- 
ing nearly  to  the  middle  of  the  stem.  Pileus  bell-shaped,  somewhat 
oblique ;  the  surface  reticulate-pitted  after  deliquescence ;  the  apex  trun- 
cate, smooth,  perforate.  Spores  elliptic-oblong,  4x2/4. 

Plant  9  in.  high.  Volva  2  in.  in  diameter.  Stem  I  /£  in.  thick  at  the 
middle.  Pileus  2  in.  in  height;  the  lower  edge  of  the  veil  hangs  about 
4  in.  from  the  apex  of  the  stem.  The  short  veil  and  the  smooth  ring  at 
the  apex  will  distinguish  this  species  from  the  next.  Morgan. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  woods. 

Ohio,  Morgan,  Lea;  Maryland,  Miss  Banning;  New  York,  Peck. 

Mt.  Gretna,  ground  in  mixed  woods,  August,  1899.     Mcllvaine. 

Several  specimens  were  found ;  but  two  in  the  early  or  ovum  stage. 
In  this  condition  the  species  is  edible.  Quality  same  as  P.  impudicus. 

P.  duplica'tllS  Bosc.  Volva  depressed  globose,  thick,  flabby  white; 
segments  3-5,  acute.  Stipe  fusiform-cylindric  cellulose;  the  veil  re- 
ticulate, hanging  down  to  the  volva.  sometimes  much  expanded,  often 
torn  and  shreddy  with  pieces  adherent  to  the  stipe.  Pileus  campanu- 
late,  reticulate-pitted  after  deliquescence ;  the  apex  acute,  not  regularly 
perforate.  Spores  elliptic-oblong,  4x2/4. 

572 


PLATE  CLVIII. 


-o 

3C 
> 

r1 
n 
c 

0> 

50 


m 
z 

m 

r 


Phalloidese 


Plant  6-8  in.  high.  Volva  2>£  in.  in  diameter.  Stipe  i%  in.  PhaUus. 
thick  in  the  middle.  Pileus  2  in.  in  height.  The  long  veil  usually 
clings  close  to  the  stipe  though  sometimes  swinging  free  and  much  ex- 
panded. In  this  species  the  gleba  extends  over  the  apex  and  there  is 
no  thick  smooth  ring  encircling  the  perforation  as  in  the  preceding 
species  (P.  Daemonum).  Morgan. 

Growing  in  woods  about  old  stumps  and  rotten  logs.  West  Virginia, 
in  woods,  along  mountain  trails;  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  in  mixed  woods, 
summer.  Mcllvaine. 

In  the  forests  of  the  West  Virginia  mountains,  P.  duplicatus  is  fre- 
quent. Before  rupture  of  the  volva  the  plant  is  a  semi-gelatinous  mass, 
tenacious  and  elastic.  It  has  little  taste  or  smell.  Cut  in  slices  and 
fried,  or  stewed,  it  is  a  tender,  agreeable  food. 

b.    Veil  not  reticulate,  concealed  beneath  the  pileus. 

P.  Ravenel'ii  B.  and  C.  Volva  subglobose  or  ovoid,  pinkish  ;  with  an 
inner  membrane,  the  lower  half  of  the  veil  surrounding  the  base  of  the 
stem;  segments  2  or  3.  Stem  cylindric,  tapering  at  each  end,  cellu- 
lose; the  veil  membranous,  scarcely  half  as  long  as  the  pileus  and  con- 
cealed beneath  it.  Pileus  conico-bell-shaped  ;  the  surface  not  reticu- 
late-pitted after  deliquescence  ;  the  apex  smooth  and  closed  or  finally 
perforate.  Spores  elliptic-oblong,  4x5—2^. 

Plant  5-7  in.  high.  Volva  i>2-2  in.  in  diameter.  Stem  nearly  i  in. 
thick.  Pileus  i  /£  in.  in  height.  This  species  vitiates  the  genus  Dic- 
tyophora  and  it  can  not  very  well  be  placed  in  Ithyphallus. 

Growing  in  woods  and  fields  about  rotting  stumps  and  logs.  Morgan. 

South  Carolina,  Ravenel;  Ohio,  Morgan;  New  York,  Peck. 

II.  —  ITHYPHAL'LUS  Fischer.      (Gr.  —  erect;  Gr.  —  phallus.) 
Stipe  without  an  indusium  or  veil  dependent  from  its  apex.    Morgan. 

P.  impudi'cus  Linn.  (Plate  CLVIII.)  Volva  globose  or  ovoid, 
white  or  pinkish;  segments  2  or  3.  Stem  cylindric,  tapering  at  each 
end,  cellulose,  without  a  veil.  Pileus  conic-campanulate  ;  the  surface 
reticulate  pitted  after  deliquescence,  the  apex  smooth,  at  first  closed,  at 
length  perforate.  Spores  elliptic-oblong,  4-5x2^. 

573 


Gastromycetes 

Phallus.       Growing  on  the  ground  in  woods. 

Plant  6-8  in.  high.  Volva  2  in.  in  diameter.  Stem  l%  in.  thick. 
Pileus  2  in.  in  height. 

By  the  elongation  of  the  stem  the  thin  membrane  which  separates  the 
stipe  from  the  pileus  is  torn  into  shreds  and  the  pileus  is  thus  liberated 
from  the  stipe  except  at  the  apex.  Morgan. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  Summer  and  autumn. 
Mel 'lvalue. 

P.  impudicus  makes  itself  known  wherever  it  grows.  The  stench  of 
the  full-grown  plant  is  aggravatingly  offensive,  attracting  blow-flies  in 
quantities,  and  the  carrion  beetle  Necrophorus  Americanus.  It  is 
common  over  the  United  States,  in  woods,  open  fence  corners,  along 
road-sides,  but  a  favorite  abode  is  in  kitchen  yards  and  under  wooden 
steps,  where,  when  mature,  it  will  compel  the  household  to  seek  it  in 
self-defense.  It  is  a  beautiful  plant. 

When  in  the  egg-shape  it  is  white  or  light  dull-green,  semi-gelatinous, 
tenacious  and  elastic.  As  many  as  a  dozen  sometimes  grow  in  a  bunch, 
each  from  a  peculiar  white,  cord-like  root  or  mycelium.  They  look, 
when  young,  like  bubbles  of  some  thick  substance.  In  this  condition 
they  are  very  good  when  fried.  They  demand  to  be  eaten  at  this  time, 
if  at  any. 


574 


Phalloidese 


GENUS  II.— MUTI'NUS  Fr. 

Stipe  hollow  within,  the  wall  composed  of   a  single  layer  of  round.-  Muthms. 
celled   tissue.     Pileus  wholly  adnate  to  the  summit  of  the  stipe,  the 
gleba  occupying  its  outer  surface.     Morgan. 

Distinguished  from   Ithyphallus  by  the  cap  being  adnate  to  the  re- 
ceptacle. 

M.  cani'nus  Fr.      (Phallus  canimis  Berk. ;  Phallus  inodorus  Sow.) 


Receptacle  elongate-fusiform,  cel- 
lular, white  or  rosy.  Pileus  short, 
subacute,  rugulose,  red.  Spores 
cylindrical,  involved  in  green  mucus, 
3-5X2/*. 

In  woods  and  bushy  places. 
Sporophore  from  %—  %  in.  before 
the  volva  is  ruptured.  When  fully 
evolved  3-4  in.  high.  Sometimes 
scentless,  at  others  with  a  distinct 
odor,  but  never  so  strong  and  dis- 
agreeable as  in  Ithyphallus  impu- 
dicus.  Massee. 

Spores  elliptic,  6x4/u,  Morgan; 
3-5x2^  Massee. 

New  England,  Frost;  New  York, 
Warne;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey, 
Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine. 

This  species  is  common.  Few 
old  woods  are  without  it.  It  is  con- 
spicuous in  color  among  the  brown 
of  the  forest  carpet.  The  plant  has 
not  .the  mal-odor  of  its  relations, 
but  is  not  pleasant.  In  the  egg 
shape  it  is  gelatinous,  tenacious, 
rather  firm,  edible  and  good  when 
sliced  and  fried. 


(Plate  CLIX.) 


ML'TINUS    CANINUS. 

(After  Massee  and  Morgan.) 


M.  bovi'nus  Morg.     Volva  oblong-ovoid,  pinkish,  segments  2  or  3. 


Gastromycetes 

Mutinus.  Stem  cylindric,  tapering  gradually  to  the  apex,  white  or  pinkish  below, 
bright  red  above.  Pileus  indeterminate,  conic-acuminate,  perforate  at 
the  apex.  Spores  elliptic-oblong,  4-5x2^. 

Plant  4-7  in.  in  height,  the  stem  %  of  an  in.  in  thickness,  the  volva 
not  much  thicker  and  i-i)£  in.  in  height;  the  pileus  occupies  1-2  in. 
of  the  pointed  apex,  but  is  not  definitely  limited  below.  This  plant  has 
the  strong  disagreeable  odor  of  other  Phalloids. 

Growing  in  rich  soil  in  cultivated  grounds  and  in  woods.     Morgan. 

Common  in  mixed  woods,  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania.  Smell 
strong,  but  not  so  offensive  as  P.  impudicus.  Edible  in  the  egg-shape. 

M.  brevis  B.  and  C. — short.  Volva  globose  or  ovoid,  segments  2 
or  3.  Stem  bright  red,  coarsely  cribrose,  attenuated  below.  Pileus 
somewhat  broadly  clavate,  sometimes  conical,  but  always  more  or  less 
obtuse,  perforate  at  the  apex. 

Plant  2-3  in.  high.  Stem  4-5  lines  thick,  the  volva  %  of  an  in.  in 
diameter,  the  pileus  sometimes  half  as  long  as  the  stem. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  fields  and  gardens.     Morgan. 

North  Carolina,  Curtis;  South  Carolina,  Ravenel;  New  England, 
Wright;  New  York,  Howe,  Gerard,  Peck. 

In  the  remaining  genera,  Clathrus,  Simblum,  Laternea,  no  species 
have  been  reported  as  tested. 


576 


Lycoperdaceae 


FAMILY  II.— LYCOPERDA'CE^E. 

Peridium  sessile,  usually  with  a  more  or  less  thickened  base  or  some- 
times stipitate,  at  maturity  filled  with  a  dusty  mass  of  mingled  threads 
and  spores. 

•  This  order  contains  many  of  our  most  delicious  and  important  food 
species.  The  characteristics  of  all  genera  are  given.  In  several  of  them 
no  species  are  reported  edible,  but  it  is  more  than  probable  that  all  are. 
The  genera  are  therefore  given  in  this  table,  but  are  omitted  in  place  to 
save  room.  The  omitted  genera  are  Nos.  i,  Polyplocium;  2,  Batar- 
rea;  3,  Myriostoma;  5,  Astreus;  6,  Mitremyces. 


TABLE  OF  GENERA  OF  LYCOPERDACEjE. 

I.— VOLVAT-ffi. 

Outer  peridium  a  thick,  firm,  persistent  coat,  bursting  irregularly  or 
splitting  from  the  apex  downward  into  segments. 

(#)  Inner  peridium  stipitate,  the  outer  remaining  as  a  volva 
at  the  base  of  the  stipe. 

i.   POLYPLOCIUM. 

Inner  peridium  pileate,  with  aculeiform  processes  underneath ;  threads 
of  the  capillitium  slender,  hyaline,  scarcely  branched. 

2.   BATARREA. 

Inner  peridium  circumscissile,  the  upper  part  coming  off  like  a  lid; 
threads  of  the  capillitium  with  spiral  markings. 

(#)    Inner  peridium  sessile,  the  outer  splitting  into  segments 
which  become  re  flexed. 

3.   MYRIOSTOMA. 

Inner  peridium  dehiscent  above  by  many  mouths;   columella  .. ; 

threads  of  the  capillitium  simple,  tapering  to  each  extremity. 

37  577 


Gastromycetes 

4.    GEASTER.     Page  580. 

Inner  peridium  dehiscent  at  the  apex  by  a  single  mouth  ;  columella 
present;  threads  of  the  capillitium  simple,  tapering  to  each  extremity. 

5.     ASTR^EUS. 

Inner  peridium  membranaceous  ;  dehiscent  at  the  apex  by  a  single 
mouth  ;  columella  none  ;  threads  of  the  capillitium  very  long,  much 

branched  and  interwoven. 

• 

6.     MlTREMYCES. 

Inner  peridium  cartilaginous,  dehiscent  at  the  apex  by  a  stellate  fis- 
sure; columella  none;  threads  of  the  capillitium  very  long,  much 
branched  and  interwoven. 

II.—  COBTICATJE. 

Outer  peridium  (cortex)  a  soft,  fragile,  more  or  less  deciduous  layer, 
often  with  external  projections  in  the  shape  of  warts,  spines  or  scales. 

(c)    Peridium  stipitate. 

7.    TYLOSTOMA.     Page  582. 

Peridium  membranaceous,  dehiscent  by  a  regular  apical  mouth; 
threads  of  the  capillitium  very  long,  much  branched  and  interwoven. 

Peridium  sessile,  but  with  a  more  or  less  thickened  base. 


8.    CALVATIA.     Page  582. 

Peridium  large,  globose  or  turbinate,  breaking  up  into  fragments  from 
above  downward,  and  gradually  falling  away;  threads  of  the  capillitium 
very  long,  much  branched  and  interwoven. 

9.    LYCOPERDON.     Page  589. 

Peridium  small,  globose,  obovoid  or  turbinate,  membranaceous,  de- 
hiscent by  a  regular  apical  mouth,  threads  of  the  capillitium  long,  slen- 
der, simple  or  branched. 

10.    BoviSTELLA.     Page  608. 

Peridium  subglobose,  membranaceous,  dehiscent  by  a  regular  apical 

578 


Liycoperdaceee 

mouth;    threads  of  the  capillitium  free,   short,   several  times  dichoto- 
mously  branched. 

(*?)  Peridium  sessile,  without  any  thickened  base . 

ii.    CATASTOMA.     Page  609. 

Peridium  globose,  subcoriaceous,  dehiscent  by  a  basal  aperture; 
threads  of  the  capillitium  free,  short,  simple,  or  scarcely  branched. 

12.    BoviSTA.     Page6i,o. 

Peridium  subglobose,  membranaceous,  dehiscent  by  an  apical  mouth, 
or  opening  irregularly;  threads  of  the  capillitium  free,  short,  several 
times  dichotomously  branched. 

13.    MYCENASTRUM.     Page  613. 

Peridium  subglobose,  very  thick,  coriaceous,  the  upper  part  finally 
breaking  up  into  irregular  lobes  or  fragments  ;  threads  of  the  capillitium 
free,  short,  with  a  few  short  branches  and  scattered  prickles.  Morgan. 


GENUS  IV.— GEA'STER  Mich. 
Gr. — the  earth ;    Gr. — star. 

Mycelium  filamentous  or  fibrous,  much  branched  and  interwoven  with  Geaster. 
the  soil.  Peridium  subglobose,  composed  of  two  distinct  persistent 
coats;  outer  peridium  thick,  fleshy-coriaceous,  at  first  closely  investing 
the  inner,  but  discrete  (  distinct )  at  maturity  splitting  from  the  apex  down- 
ward into  several  segments  which  become  reflexed  ;  inner  peridium  thin, 
membranaceous  then  papyraceous  (like  parchment),  sessile  or  with  a 

579 


Gastromycetes 


(Plate  CLX.) 


Geaster.  short  pedicel,  dehiscent  at  the  apex  by  a  single  mouth.  Capillitium  tak- 
ing its  origin  from  the  inner  surface 
of  the  peridium  and  also  from  a  dis- 
tinct central  columella,  which  arises 
from  its  base;  threads  simple,  long, 
slender,  thickest  in  the  middle  and 
tapering  to  each  extremity,  fixed  at 
one  end  and  free  at  the  other.  Spores 
small,  globose,  minutely  warted, 
brown.  Morgan. 

G.  minimus,  when  found  by  the 
writer,  was  not  tested  because  not 
found  in  condition.  It  is  a  plant 
beautiful  in  its  oddity.  Its  seven  to 
nine  outer  segments  of  skin  loosen 
at  the  bottom,  spring  up,  raising 
the  oval  body  of  the  plant  with 
them,  turn  their  points  down  and 
balance  on  the  lower  points,  and  look, 
in  miniature,  just  as  would  two  sec- 
tional orange  peels  spread  at  their 
loose  points  if  one  was  rested,  point 

to  point,  upon  the  other.  This  hoisting  of  the  spore-bearing  part  aloft, 
that  it  may  better  eject  its  spores  to  the  wind,  does  not  seem  to  have 
been  noted  by  Professor  Morgan.  Specimens  sent  to  Professor  Peck 
by  the  writer  beautifully  illustrated  this  enterprise  of  the  plant. 

G.  hygrome'tricus  Pers.  (Plate  CLX,  2  figs.,  p.  580.)  Peridium 
depressed-globose,  the  cuticle  deciduous  with  the  mycelium;  outer 
peridium  deeply  parted,  the  segments  7-20,  strongly  hygrometric, 
acute  at  the  apex;  inner  peridium  depressed-globose,  sessile,  reticulate, 
pitted,  whitish  becoming  gray  or  brownish;  the  mouth  an  irregularly 
lacerate  aperture.  Threads  of  the  capillitium  rather  thinner  than  the 
spores,  hyaline.  Spores  globose,  minutely  warted,  brown,  8-1  I/A  in. 
in  diameter. 

Growing  in  fields  and  woods  in  sandy  soil.  A  very  common  species 
found  everywhere  in  the  world.  Inner  peridium  %  —  i  in.  in  diameter, 
the  segments  expanding  to  a  breadth  of  2—3  in.  The  inner  layer  of  the 

580 


GEASTER  HYGROMETRICUS. 
Natural  size.      (After  Morgan.) 


Lycoperdacese 

outer  peridium  is  cartilaginous-gelatinous,  hard  and  rigid  when  dry,  Geaster. 
swelling  greatly  and  flexible  when  wet ;  though  constantly  becoming 
more  and  more  cracked  and  fissured,  it  retains  its  hygroscopic  qualities 
a  long  time,  and  the  outer  peridium  remains  lying  on  the  soil,  stellate 
in  shape,  spreading  out  its  rays  in  moist  weather  and  bending  them 
inward  in  dry.  Morgan. 

Mr.  Morgan  made  a  new  genus — Astraeus,  in  which  he  placed  this 
species.  It  is  so  widely  known  as  Geaster  hygrometricus  that  to  avoid 
confusion  it  is  placed  in  its  old  genus. 

This  natural  barometer,  spreading  its  stellate  covering  on  the  soil 
about  it  when  the  air  is  laden  with  moisture,  and  closing  it  around 
its  puffy  body  when  humidity  is  absent,  is  odd  and  interesting.  The 
entire  genus  is  more  or  less  gifted  with  this  weather-wise  quality.  The 
species  is  very  common,  but  seldom  found  in  number.  Once,  in  the 
West  Virginia  mountains,  1882,  I  found  a  large  patch  of  it,  and  was 
able  to  collect  from  it  enough  young  ones  to  test  its  edibility.  It  is 
difficult  to  find  before  it  bursts  its  outer  coat.  When  young  it  is, 
when  cooked,  soft  and  creamy  inside.  The  outer  part  is  tough  and 
semi-glutinous  but  of  pleasant  texture.  It  has  not  a  marked  flavor,  but 
makes  a  succulent  dish. 


581 


Gastrornycetes 


II.— CORTICATE. 


Tylostoma.       (Plate  CLXI.) 


GENUS  VII.— TYLOS'TOMA  Pers. 
Gr. — a  knob. 


Plants  growing  on  the  ground,  oftenest  in  dry  and 
sandy  regions.  The  genus  is  readily  distinguished 
from  all  others  of  the  Lycoperdaceae  by  the  entire 
peridium  being  mounted  upon  the  apex  of  the  stem. 
Morgan. 

The  genus  contains  but  few  species.  Those  I  have 
found  were  not  in  condition  to  test.  There  is  no  re- 
port upon  the  edibility  of  any. 


TYLOSTOMA 

MEYENIANUM. 
(After  Morgan.) 


GENUS  VIII.— CALVA'TIA  Fr. 


Caivatia.  Mycelium  fibrous,  usually  thick  and  cord-like,  rooting  from  the  base. 
Peridium  large,  globose  and  nearly  sessile,  or  turbinate  with  a  well-de- 
veloped base ;  cortex  a  very  thin  adherent  layer,  often  smooth  and  con- 
tinuous, sometimes  composed  of  minute  spinules  or  granules;  inner 
peridium  a  loosely  woven  and  very  fragile  covering,  after  maturity 
breaking  up  into  fragments  from  above  downward  and  gradually  falling 
away.  Subgleba  cellulose,  mostly  definitely  limited  and  concave  above, 
persistent;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  dense,  compact,  persistent  a 
long  time  and  slowly  dissipating  after  the  fracture  of  the  peridium ;  the 
threads  very  long,  slender,  much  branched  and  interwoven.  Spores 
small,  globose,  usually  sessile  or  with  only  a  minute  pedicel.  Morgan. 
Puffballs  of  the  largest  size,  growing  on  the  ground  in  fields  and 
woods.  Morgan. 

I. — SESSILES. 

Peridium  very  large,  without  a  distinct  base ;  subgleba  nearly  obsolete, 
the  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  quite  filling  the  interior. 

582 


Lycoperdacess 

C.  gigantea  Batsch. — gigantic.  (Z.  bovista  Linn. ;  L.  maximum  Caivatia. 
Schaeff. ;  L.  giganteum  Batsch.)  Very  large,  10-20  in.  in  diameter, 
obconic  or  depressed-globose,  nearly  or  quite  sessile,  white  or  whitish, 
becoming  discolored  by  age,  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  by  weak 
spinose  or  minute  floccose  warts,  sometimes  cracking  in  areas;  capilli- 
tium  and  spores  yellowish-green  to  dingy-olive.  Spores  smooth,  41*.  in. 
in  diameter.  Edible.  Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Spores  globose,  even  or  sometimes  minutely  warted,  3.5—4-5  m-  in 
diameter,  often  with  a  minute  pedicel.  Morgan. 

Common  over  the  states.  Growing  on  the  ground  in  grassy  places 
in  fields  and  woods.  August  to  October. 

tv  As  the  name  implies,  this  species  is  gigantic.  It  is  the  largest  of  all 
fungi.  It  has  attained  the  diameter  of  three  feet  in  this  country,  but  is- 
reported  larger  in  Europe.  I  have  found  it  in  West  Virginia  weighing 
nine  pounds,  but  one  is  reported  as  found  in  Gordon  Park  weighing 
fdrty-seven  pounds.  I  have  often  followed  the  advice  of  Vittadini  and 
sliced  a  meal  for  my  family  from  growing  individuals.  The  cut  surface 
contracts  and  dries!'  The  plant  seems  to  be  deprived  of  its  power  to 
further  ripen.  It  can  thus  be  cut  for  many  days.  It  has  other  than 
food  uses  in  its  dry  form — as  a  sponge,  as  tinder,  as  a  color,  as  a  styptic 
in  hemorrhage ;  the  Finns  make  a  remedy  of  it  for  diarrhea  in  calves, 
and  it  is  burned  under  bee-hives  to  stupefy  bees. 

It,  as  well  as  L.  cyathiforme,  is  an  admirable  and  delicate  fungus. 

C.  pachyder'ma  Pk.  Gr. — thick-skinned.  Peridium  very  large, 
globose  or  obovoid,  often  irregular,  with  a  thick  cord-like  root;  cortex 
thin,  smooth,  whitish,  persistent,  drying  up  into  polygonal  areolae 
which  are  white  in  the  center  with  a  brown  border ;  inner  peridium  very 
thick  but  fragile,  with  a  separable  membranaceous  lining,  after  maturity 
gradually  breaking  up  into  fragments  and  falling  away.  Subgleba  ob- 
solete ;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  greenish-yellow  then  olive-brown ; 
the  threads  very  long,  occasionally  septate,  branched,  mostly  thinner 
than  the  spores.  Spores  globose,  distinctly  warted,  5-6ft  in  diameter, 
sometimes  with  a  minute  pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  ground.  Arizona,  Pringle;  Dakota,  Miss  Nellie 
Crouch.  Peridium  4-8  in.  in  diameter.  Remarkable  for  its  thick 
peridium,  which  becomes  white  spotted  and  areolate.  Morgan. 

I  have  not  seen  this  species. 

583 


Grastromycetes 

II . — CYATHIFORMES. 

Caivatia.       Peridium  large,  top-shaped,  with  a  stout  thick  base;   subgleba  lim- 
ited and  concave  above,  persistent. 

C.  cyathifor'mis  Bosc. — cup-shaped.  (L.  cyatki forme  Bosc.)  (Plate 
CLXII,  p.  584.)  Peridium  3-6  in.  in  diameter,  globose  or  depressed- 
globose,  smooth  or  minutely  floccose  or  scaly,  whitish  cinereous  brown 
or  pinkish  brown,  often  cracking  into  areas  in  the  upper  part,  commonly 
with  a  short,  thick,  stem-like  base;  capillitium  and  spores  purple-brown, 
these  and  the  upper  part  of  the  peridium  falling  away  and  disappearing 
when  old,  leaving  a  cup-shaped  base  with  a  ragged  margin.  Spores 
globose,  rough,  purple-brown,  5-6. 5/x.  broad.  Peck,  48th  Rep.  N.  Y. 
.State  Bot. 

Common  over  United  States.  Indiana,  H .  I.  Miller ;  West  Virginia, 
New  Jersey.  On  open  grassy  ground.  July  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Often  a  queer,  ragged,  cup-shaped,  purplish  mass  is  noticed  protrud- 
ing from  the  ground,  looking  as  if  the  upper  half  had  been  cut  off  hori- 
zontally. This  is  the  mature  C.  cyathiformis,  or  rather,  what  is  left  of 
it.  The  upper  half  has  blown  away  and  is  spreading  its  spores  else- 
where. 

A  first-class  Lycoperdon,  meaty  and  of  excellent  flavor.  When  it 
occurs,  it  is  usually  in  plenty.  On  the  great  parade  ground  at  Mt. 
Gretna,  Pa.,  it  annually  appears  in  large  quantities.  Cows  are  fond'of 
it,  and  it  is  this  fungus  which  is  currently  believed  among  farmers  to 
affect  milk.  I  have  watched  cows  pawing  it  to  pieces  and  eating  por- 
tions of  it. 

C.  fra'gilis  Vitt. — fragile.  Peridium  obovoid,  plicate  below,  with  a 
short-pointed  base  and  a  cord-like  root.  Cortex  a  smooth  continuous 
layer,  very  thin  and  fragile,  separable,  white  or  grayish,  becoming 
brownish  and  tinged  with  violet  and  purple,  commonly  areolate  above; 
inner  peridium  thin,  violet  to  purple,  velvety,  extremely  fragile,  after 
maturity  the  upper  part  soon  breaking  up  into  fragments  and  falling 
away.  Subgleba  occupying  but  a  small  portion  of  the  peridium,  cup- 
shaped  above,  persistent;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  from  violet  to 
pale  purple;  the  threads  very  long,  mostly  thinner  than  the  spores, 
scarcely  branched.  Spores  globose,  minutely  warted,  4-5.5/1  in  diame- 
ter, sessile. 

584 


PLATE  CLXII. 


o 


r  > 

~  — 

o    *-J 

1  > 
lo 

0   •< 


3    Tl 

?  o 

" 


00 


Lycoperdaceee 

Growing  on  the  open  prairies.     Wisconsin,  Brown;   Iowa,  McBride;  Caivatia. 
Nebraska,  Wyoming,   Webber;  Kansas,    Cragin;  California,  Harkness. 
Peridilim  1-^—3  in.  in  diameter.     Morgan. 

Not  seen  by  writer.      Doubtless  edible. 

C.  sigilla'ta  Cragin — adorned  with  figures.  Pei'idium  large,  de- 
pressed above,  narrowed  below  into  a  stem-like  base.  Cortex  very  thin 
and  fragile,  white,  easily  abraded;  inner  peridium  subcoriaceous,  with 
a  fragile  rust-color  brown  lining,  marked  off  above  into  polygonal  areas 
by  lines  of  depression,  at  length  breaking  up  into  fragments  and  falling 
away.  Mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  violet  to  dark-purple.  Spores 
globose,  even,  3.5-4.5/0,  in  diameter,  with  a  long  pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  open  prairie.  Kansas,  Cragin.  Peridium  4-5  in. 
in  diameter.  The  species  is  well  marked  by  the  even  pedicellate  spores. 
Morgan. 

C.  CSela'ta  Bull. — carved  in  relief.  (L.  ccela'tnm  Bull. ;  L.  bovista 
Pers.)  Peridium  large,  obovoid  or  top-shaped,  depressed  above,  with 
a  stout  thick  base  and  a  cord-like  root.  Cortex  a  thickish  floccose 
layer,  with  coarse  warts  or  spines  above,  whitish  then  ochraceous  or 
finally  brown,  at  length  breaking  up  into  areola  which  are  more  or  less 
persistent;  inner  peridium  thick  but  fragile,  thinner  about  the  apex, 
where  it  finally  ruptures,  forming  a  large  irregular  lacerate  aperture. 
Subgleba  occupying  nearly  half  the  peridium,  cup-shaped  above  and  a 
long  time  persistent;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  compact,  farina- 
ceous, greenish-yellow  or  olivaceous,  becoming  pale  to  dark-brown;  the 
threads  very  much  branched,  the  primary  branches  two  or  three  times 
as  thick  as  the  spores,  very  brittle,  soon  breaking  up  into  fragments. 
Spores  globose,  even,  4— 4.5/1*  in  diameter,  sessile  or  sometimes  with 
a  short  or  minute  pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  fields  and  woods. 

Peridium  3-5  in.  in  diameter,  sometimes  larger.     Morgan. 

Wisconsin,  Brown;  Minnesota,  JoJinson ;  Kansas,  Kellerman;  L. 
caelatum,  New.  York,  edible,  Peck,  23d  Rep.  ;  Indiana,  good,  H.  I. 
Miller.  Common,  West  Virginia,  wooded  lanes,  Mcllvaine. 

An  excellent  species. 

C.  hiema'lis  Bull. — belonging  to  winter.  Peridium  obovoid  or  top- 
shaped,  depressed  above,  with  a  stout  thick  base  and  a  cord-like  root. 

585 


Gastromycetes 


Calvatia.  Cortex  a  thin  furfuraceous  coat,  with  stout  convergent  spines  above, 
whitish  or  gray,  becoming  yellowish  and  reddish,  after  maturity  gradually 
falling  away  from  the  upper  part;  inner  peridium  thin,  submembrana- 
ceous,  pallid  or  brownish,  dehiscent  at  the  apex  by  an  irregular  lacerate 
mouth.  Subgleba  occupying  nearly  half  the  peridium,  cup-shaped  above 
and  a  long  time  persistent;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  soft,  lax, 
greenish-yellow  then  brownish-olivaceous ;  the  threads  very  long,  much 
branched,  the  primary  branches  about  as  thick  as  the  spores,  the  ulti- 
mate ones  long,  slender  and  tapering.  Spores  globose,  even,  3.S-4-5/4 
in  diameter,  with  a  short  or  minute  pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  fields  and  pastures.  Peridium  2-4  in.  in 
diameter  and  3-5  in.  in  height.  I  find  this  species  referred  to  North 
America  in  Saccardo's  Sylloge.  It  is  Lycoperdon  caelatum  of  Fries  S. 
M.  Possibly  the  L.  caelatum  of  Curtis's  catalogue  may  be  this  species. 
Morgan . 

Not  seen  by  writer. 


(Plate  CLXIII.) 


C.  craniifor'mis  Schw. — cranion,  a  skull.    Peridium  very  large,  ob- 

ovoid  or  turbinate,  depressed  above, 
the  base  thick  and  stout,  with  a  cord- 
like  root.  Cortex  a  smooth  continu- 
ous layer,  very  thin  and  fragile,  easily 
peeling  off,  pallid  or  grayish,  some- 
times with  a  reddish  tinge,  often  be- 
coming folded  in  areas;  the  inner 
peridium  thin,  ochraceous  to  bright 
brown,  velvety,  extremely  fragile, 
after  maturity  the  upper  part  break- 
ing up  into  fragments  and  falling 
away.  Subgleba  occupying  about 
one-half  of  the  peridium,  cup-shaped 
above  and  a  long  time  persistent; 
mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  green- 
ish-yellow then  ochraceous  or  dirty 
olivaceous;  the  threads  very  long, 

about  as  thick  as  the  spores,  branched.   Spores  globose,  even,  3— 3-5/*  in 

diameter,  with  a  minute  pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  woods.     Peridium  commonly  3-6  in.  in 

586 


CALVATIA  CRANIIFORMIS. 
(After  Morgan.) 


Lycoperdaceae 

diameter  and  4-5  in.  in  height,  but  much  larger  specimens  are  some-  Caivatia. 
times  met  with.     This  species  abounds  in  the  woods  of  southern  Ohio, 
growing  in  great  patches  of  numerous  individuals.      I  do  not  know  that 
the  edible  qualities  of  this  species  have  been  tested.    Morgan. 

Chester  county,  Pa.  Springton  Hills.  On  ground  in  mixed  woods. 
August  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Not  a  frequent  species  with  us.  I  have  seen  it  only  in  the  locality 
named.  The  substance  is  very  like  that  of  L.  pyriforme.  When  white 
it  has  a  strong  but  pleasant  odor,  and  in  this  condition  it  is  an  excellent 
fungus.  The  slightest  change  to  yellow  makes  it  bitter. 

C.  rubl'O-fla'va  Cragin — reddish-yellow.  Peridium  obconic,  taper- 
ing gradually  downward  to  the  rooting  mycelium.  Cortex  a  very  thin 
furfuraceous  or  granulose  coat,  with  a  few  short,  scattered  spinules 
above;  inner  peridium  thin  and  fragile,  at  first  whitish,  soon  becoming 
orange-red  to  orange-brown  in  color,  after  maturity  the  upper  part 
breaking  up  into  fragments  and  falling  away.  Subgleba  occupying 
about  a  third  part  of  the  peridium ;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  red- 
dish-ocher  then  olivaceous-orange ;  the  threads  very  long,  rather  thicker 
than  the  spores,  branched.  Spores  globose,  even,  3-3.5^  in  diameter, 
sometimes  with  a  minute  pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  ground.  Kansas,  Cragin,  Kellerman.  Peridium 
1^—3  in.  in  height  with  a  breach  of  1—2  in.  The  peculiar  orange  or 
rather  reddish-ocher  color  with  which  the  whole  plant  is  pervaded  at 
maturity  is  very  remarkable.  Morgan. 

III. — STIPITAT.E. 

Peridium  depressed,  globose  above,  abruptly  contracted  below  into  a 
long  stem-like  base;  subgleba  not  definitely  limited  above,  continuous 
with  the  capillitium,  persistent. 

C.  sacca'ta  (Vahl.)  Fr. — saccus,  a  bag  or  pouch.  Medium  size,  2-4 
in.  high,  1—2  in.  broad.  Peridium  depressed-globose  or  somewhat  lenti- 
form,  supported  by  a  long  stem-like  base,  furfuraceous  with  minute  per- 
sistent mealy  or  granular  warts  or  spinules,  often  plicate  beneath,  white 
or  creamy-white,  at  maturity  becoming  brown  or  olive-brown,  subshining 
and  very  thin  or  membranous,  breaking  up  into  irregular  fragments 
which  sometimes  adhere  to  the  capillitium  for  a  considerable  time,  the 
stem-like  base  cylindrical  or  narrowed  downward,  sometimes  thick; 

587 


Gastromycetes 


Calvatia.  capillitium  rather  dense,  subpersistent,  and  with  the  spores  dingy-olive 
or  dingy-brown,  sometimes  verging  toward  purplish-brown.  Spores 
rough,  4—  5ft  in  diameter.  Edible. 

Low  mossy  grounds  and  bushy  swamps,  especially  under  alders. 
Sandlake,  Center  and  Adirondack  mountains.  August  to  October. 
Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  1881-1885;  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina. 
Frequent,  thin  moist  woods.  July  to  November.  Mcllvaine. 

C.  saccata,  the  long-stemmed  puff-ball,  is  a  common  and  pleasing 
species.  Shape,  color,  feel,  combine  to  make  it  attractive.  It  is  one 
of  the  very  best  we  have.  When  white  inside  and  otherwise  in  good 
condition  it  is  delicious. 


C. 


Massee. 


(Plate  CLXIV.) 


Peridium  globose  or  depressed-globose  above, 
plicate  below  and  abruptly  contracted  into  a  long 
stem-like  base;  the  base  slender,  cylindric  or 
tapering  downward,  sometimes  pitted ;  mycelium 
fibrous  and  filamentous.  Cortex  a  very  thin 
coat  of  minute  persistent  spinules  or  granules ; 
inner  peridium  white  or  cream-colored,  becom- 
ing brown  or  olivaceous,  very  thin  and  fragile, 
after  maturity  the  upper  part  soon  breaking  up 
into  fragments  and  falling  away.  Subgleba  oc- 
cupying the  stem-like  base,  a  long  time  persist- 
ent; mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  brown  or 
brownish -olivaceous;  the  threads  very  long, 
branched,  the  main  stem  as  thick  as  the  spores, 
the  branches  more  slender.  Spores  globose, 
even  or  very  minutely  warted,  4— 5/x,  in  diame- 
ter with  a  short  or  minute  pedicel. 

Growing  among  mosses  in  low  grounds  and 
bushy  places.      New  England,  Humphrey;  New 

York,  Peck.  Peridium  1-2  in.  in  diameter  and  3-6  in.  in  height,  the 
stem-like  base  %—%  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  This  American  form  of 
Lycoperdon  saccatum  has  lately  been  separated  from  it,  and  named, 
figured  and  described  as  Lycoperdon  elatum  by  George  Massee. 
Morgan. 
Edible. 

588 


CALVATIA  ELATA. 
(After  Morgan.) 


Lycoperdaceee 

GENUS  IX.—  LYCOPER'DON  Tourn. 

Mycelium  fibrous,  rooting  from  the  base.     Peridilim  small,  globose,  Lycoperdon, 
obovoid  or  turbinate,  with  a  more  or  less  thickened  base;  cortex  a  sub- 
persistent  coat  of  soft  spines,  scales,  warts  or  granules;    inner  peridium 
thin,   membranaceous  becoming  papyraceous,   dehiscent   by  a  regular 
apical  mouth.     Morgan. 

When  the  plant  sits  (without  stem)  directly  upon  the  ground  or 
wood  it  is  sessile.  The  outer  layer  of  the  two  parts  of  its  covering  is 
the  exterior  peridium  (sometimes  spoken  of  as  cortex} .  This  frequently 
breaks  up  into  scales,  spines,  bristles,  minute  flocculent  or  powdery 
masses,  and  these  vary  in  size  and  in  many  species  disappear  as  the 
plant  matures.  These  are  of  determining  value  in  several  species  of 
Lycoperdaceae.  Plants  with  coarse,  long  spines  are  echinate  because 
they  bristle.  When  the  spines  incline  together  and  form  a  point  they 
are  stellate.  Various  formations  of  this  outside  covering  are  also  called 
warts.  The  inner  rind  or  skin  is  the  true  peridium. 

The  mass  of  thread-like  filaments  which  fills  the  interior  of  the  plant 
is  called  the  capillitium.  The  filaments  are  deftly  interlaced.  At  times 
filaments  springing  from  the  base  do  not  interlace  with  the  others ;  these 
are  called  columellce.  These  filaments  bear  the  spores — the  dust  which 
puffs  out  in  such  quantity  and  gives  the  common  name  to  the  plant — 
puff-ball — and  its  Mephistophelian  one — The  Devil's  Snuff-box.  In 
some  species  the  filaments  at  the  base  of  the  plant  are  sterile — they  do 
not  bear  spores.  These  filaments  are  more  contracted  and  form  the 
neck,  stem  or  subgleba.  The  gleba  is  the  upper  interior  of  the  plant, 
in  which  the  spores  are  contained.  See  plate  CLVI. 

Dehiscent  is  said  of  an  organ  which  opens  of  itself  at  maturity.  A 
plant  is  dehiscent  at  the  discharging  point  of  its  spores.  If  this  is  at 
the  summit  it  is  apically  dehiscent. 

The  descriptions  herein  given  of  American  representatives  of  European 
species  are  in  many  instances  those  of  A.  P.  Morgan,  who  has  made 
special  study  of  this  genus,  and  those  of  Professor  C.  H.  Peck,  whose 
interstate  experience  acquaints  him  with  every  varying  form.  Mr.  Mor- 
gan has  kindly  given  permission  to  use  his  text  and  drawings. 

No  one  has  yet  had  reason  to  doubt  the  harmlessness  of  any  puff- 
ball.  There  are  a  few  I  have  not  eaten,  but  believing  that  these  will  be 
proven  edible,  descriptions  of  all  species  occurring  in  America  are  given. 

589 


Gastromycetes 

Lycoperdon.  There  are  first  and  second-class  puff-balls.  Usually  the  small  species 
are  slightly  strong,  and  if  a  shade  of  yellow  appears  upon  breaking  any 
puff-ball,  it  will  be  more  or  less  bitter  and  will  spoil  a  whole  dish.  The 
larger  species  are  milder.  The  flavor  of  purf-balls  appears  to  be  issued 
to  them  as  a  ration.  It  is  all  there  in  a  little  fellow,  and  in  a  big  one  it 
is  simply  spread  through  more  substance. 

Lafayette  B.  Mendel  in  Am.  Jour,  of  Physiology,  March,  1898,  gives 
the  nitrogenous  compounds  in  L.  bovista  as: 

Nitrogen  soluble  in  gastric  juice 3.13 

Digestible  protein  nitrogen 3.13 

Indigestible  protein  nitrogen 2.70 

Protein  nitrogen 5.79 

Extractive  nitrogen 2.40 

Total  nitrogen 8.19 

TABLE  OF  THE  SPECIES  OF  LYCOPERDON. 

I. PURPLE-SPORED  SERIES. 

Mature    spores    purplish-brown. 

a.  Cortex  consisting  of  very  long  convergent  spines.      Page  591. 

b.  Cortex  composed  of  long  slender  convergent  spines.      Page  592. 

c.  Cortex  composed  of  minute  spinules.      Page  594- 

d.  Cortex  a  furfuraceous  persistent  coat.      Page  595. 

e.  Cortex  a  smooth,  continuous  layer,  becoming  areolate.    Page  597. 

II. — OLIVE-SPORED  SERIES. 
Mature  spores  usually  brownish-olivaceous. 

A.   PERIDIUM  OBOVOID  OR  TURBINATE,  THE  SUBGLEBA  WELL  DEVELOPED. 

/.  Cortex  of  long  spines  mingled  with  shorter  ones,  the  former  at 
length  fall  away,  leaving  a  reticulate  surface  to  the  inner  peridium. 
Page  5 98. 

g.  Cortex  of  stout  spines  which  fall  away  and  leave  a  tomentose  or 
furfuraceous  surface  to  the  inner  peridium.  Page  599. 

h.  Cortex  of  long  spines,  curved  and  convergent  at  the  apex,  which 
fall  away  and  leave  a  smooth  surface  to  the  inner  peridium.  Page  600. 

i.  Cortex  of  minute  spinules  and  granules  or  furfuraceous  scales. 
Terrestrial.  Page  602. 

590 


Lycoperdaceee 

k.    Cortex  of  minute  spinules,  scales  or  granules.   Lignatile.   Page  603.   Lycoperdon. 
B.   PERIDIUM  VERY  SMALL,  GLOBOSE,  THE  SUBGLEBA  NEARLY  OBSOLETE. 

/.  Cortex  a  thin  coat  of  minute  spinules,  scales  or  granules.  Page 
604.  Morgan, 

I. PURPLE-SPORED  SERIES. 

(ja)   Cortex  consisting  of  very  long  convergent  spines ;  denuded 
peridium  smooth . 

L.  echina'tum  Pers. — prickly.  (L.  Peck' ii  Morg. )  ( Plate  CLVI,  fig. 
2,  p.  568.)  Peridium  %  — 1)£  in.  broad,  subglobose,  generally  nar- 
rowed below  into  a  short  stem-like  base,  whitish  brownish  or  pinkish- 
brown,  echinate  above  with  rather  stout  spines,  which  at  length  fall  off 
and  leave  the  surface  smooth  ;  toward  the  base  spinulose  or  furfuraceous ; 
capillitium  and  spores  dingy-olive.  Spores  minutely  rough,  4ft  in  dia- 
meter. 

Ground  and  decaying  wood  in  woods.  Albany,  Forestburg  and 
Adirondack  mountains.  August  to  October. 

The  whole  plant  is  generally  obovate,  pyriform  or  turbinate,  and  the 
spines  are  larger  and  more  or  less  curved  at  and  near  the  apex,  dimin- 
ishing in  size  toward  the  base  where  they  are  more  persistent.  In  the 
immature  condition  it  is  difficult  to  distinguish  it  from  L.  pediceltetum ; 
but  when  mature  its  smooth  peridium  and  spores  destitute  of  pedicels 
separate  it.  Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

L.  echinatum  appears  to  be  common  to  all  the  states.  August  to 
frost.  It  is  frequent  but  not  abundant.  Raw  the  taste  is  slight.  Cooked 
it  is  tender  and  of  good  flavor. 

L.  pulcher'rimum  B.  and  C.     (L.  Frost' ii  Pk.)    Peridium  usually 

obovoid,  sometimes  subturbinate,  with  a  short  stout  base;  the  mycelium 
forming  a  thick  cord-like  root.  Cortex  consisting  of  very  long  white 
spines,  converging  and  often  coherent  at  the  apex;  the  spines  at  length 
fall  away  from  the  upper  part  of  the  peridium,  leaving  the  inner  perid- 
ium with  a  smooth  purplish-brown  shining  surface,  sometimes  faintly 
reticulated.  Subgleba  occupying  about  a  third  part  of  the  peridium; 
mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  at  first  olivaceous,  then  brownish-purple; 
the  threads  much  branched,  the  main  stem  thicker  than  the  spores,  the 

591 


Gastromycetes 


Lycoperdon.  branches  long,  slender  and  tapering.  Spores  globose,  minutely  warted, 
4-5~5-5/Lt  i°  diameter. 

Peridium  I— 2xV2  in.  in  diameter  and  1-2  in.  in  height. 

The  fresh  specimens  of  this  plant  have  a  strong  and  not  unpleasant 
fragrance. 

Growing  in  low  grounds,  in  fields  and  woods.      September,  October. 

L.  pulcherrimum  is  frequent,  but  not  abundant.  It  ranks  with  second- 
class  puff-balls.  It  is  good  when  young  and  fresh. 


L.  constella'tum 

(Plate  CLXV.) 


LYCOPERDON  CONSTEL- 

LATUM. 
(After  Peck.) 


Fr. — grouped.  Peridium  subglobose  or  ob- 
ovate,  sometimes  depressed,  10— 18  lines  broad, 
echinate  with  rather  long  stout  crowded  brown 
spines  which  are  either  straight  curved  or  stel- 
lately  united  and  which  at  length  fall  off  and 
leave  the  surface  reticulate  with  brown  lines; 
capillitium  and  spores  brown  or  purplish-brown, 
columella  present.  Spores  rough,  5-6. 5/*  in 
diameter. 

Ground  in  dense  shades  and  groves.  Oneida, 
Warne.  Rare.  Autumn.  Peck,  32d  Rep.  N. 
Y.  State  Bot. 


(#)   Cortex  composed  of  long ',  slender  convergent  spines ;  denuded 
peridium  smooth. 

L.  hirtum  Mart. — hairy.  Peridium  broadly  turbinate,  depressed 
above,  contracted  below  into  a  short,  thick,  tapering  or  pointed  base, 
with  a  cord-like  root.  Cortex  a  dense  coat  of  soft  spines,  long,  slender 
and  convergent  above,  becoming  shorter  downward,  gray  or  brownish 
in  color;  these  finally  fall  away,  leaving  the  inner  peridium  with  a 
brown  or  purplish-brown,  smooth,  shining  surface.  Subgleba  occupy- 
ing from  one-third  to  one-half  of  the  peridium ;  mass  of  spores  and 
capillitium  olivaceous,  then  brownish-purple;  the  threads  branched,  the 
main  stem  about  as  thick  as  the  spores,  with  slender,  tapering  branches. 
Spores  globose,  distinctly  warted,  5-6/x  in  diameter. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  woods.  Peridium  1-2%  in.  in  diameter 
and  1^—2  in.  in  height.  This  species  in  this  country  heretofore  has 
been  included  with  L.  atropurpureum.  I  have  followed  Mr.  Massee  in 

592 


Lycoperdaceas 

keeping  them  separate.     This  is  perhaps  L.  bicolor  W.  and  C.,  of  the  Lycoperdon. 
Pacific  Coast  Catalogue.     Morgan. 

New  York,  Peck,  46th  Rep.;  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsyl- 
vania. Ground  in  woods.  August  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

It  is  edible.      Good  when  young  and  fresh. 

L.  atropurpur'eum  Vitt. — ater,  black;  purpureus,  purple — of  the 
spores.  Peridium  globose  depressed-globose  or  obovate,  6-30  lines 
broad,  generally  narrowed  below  into  a  short  stem-like  base,  white  ci- 
nereous or  brownish,  mealy-spinulose,  hairy-spinulose,  echinate  or  stel- 
lately  echinate,  when  denuded  smooth  and  subshining;  capillitium  and 
spores  finally  purplish-brown,  columella  present.  Spores  rough,  5-6/u.  in 
diameter. 

Sandy  pastures,  woods  and  bushy  places.  Common.  August  to 
October. 

This  appears  to  be  one  of  the  most  polymorphous  species  we  have. 
It  is  so  variable  that  I  have  been  obliged  to  modify  the  usual  description 
very  much,  in  order  to  include  forms  which  are  quite  diverse,  yet  which 
appear  to  me  to  run  together  in  such  a  way  that  I  am  unable  to  draw 
any  satisfactory  line  of  distinction  between  them. 

There  are  three  principal  varieties  which  I  have  referred  to  this 
species.  The  first  is  usually  1-2  in.  broad,  sessile,  or  with  a  very  short 
stem,  nearly  smooth,  being  mealy  or  pruinose,  and  having  a  few  minute, 
weak,  scattered  spinules  or  scales.  Its  color  is  generally  whitish  or 
white  slightly  clouded  with  brown.  It  grows  in  sandy  pastures  and 
cleared  lands,  and  is  probably  the  nearest  of  the  three  in  its  resemblance 
to  the  type. 

I  regard  the  second  and  third  as  worthy  of  a  name  and  designate  and 
define  them  as  follows : 

Var.  hirtel'lum.  Peridium  hairy-spinulose  with  erect  or  curved 
sometimes  stellately  united  spinules,  which  are  often  of  a  blackish  color. 

Ground  and  decaying  vegetable  matter  in  woods. 

.  Var.  stella  re.     Peridium  echinate  or  stellately  echinate  with  rather 
stout  easily  deciduous  spines. 

Ground  in  woods  and  bushy  places. 

In  this  species  the  capillitium  and  spores  are  at  first  greenish*yellow, 
olive-tinted  or  brownish;  but  when  fully  mature  they  are  purple-tinted. 
Some  care  will,  therefore,  be  necessary,  lest  the  last  variety  be  confused 
38  593 


Gastromycetes 

Lycoperdon.  with   the  Echinate    Puff-ball,    L.   echinatum.     Peck,   32d  Rep.  N.  Y. 
State  Bot. 

Spores  6-7/4  Massee;  globose,  distinctly  warted,  5.5-6/x  Morgan. 
Ohio,    West  Virginia,   New  Jersey,   Pennsylvania.      On    ground    in 
woods.     August  to  October.     Mcllvaine. 

L.  atropurpureum  is  frequent,  not  abundant.      It  is  edible,  good. 

(c)   Cortex  composed  of  minute  spimiles  ;  denuded peridium  smooth. 

L.  cu'pricum  Bon. — coppery.  Peridium  obconic,  depressed  above 
and  tapering  downward,  the  base  plicate,  with  a  fibrous  mycelium. 
Cortex  gray  or  flesh-color,  composed  of  minute  spinules  circularly  ar- 
ranged and  convergent  and  coherent  at  the  apex;  these  dry  up,  becom- 
ing dark  purplish  in  color,  and  finally  fall  away  from  the  smooth,  shin- 
ing, copper- colored  surface  of  the  inner  peridium.  Subgleba  occupy- 
ing nearly  a  third  part  of  the  peridium;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium, 
at  length  purplish-brown;  the  threads  branched,  the  main  stem  thinner 
than  the  spores,  with  long,  tapering  branches.  Spores  globose,  dis- 
tinctly warted,  6-7^  in  diameter. 

Growing  in  sandy  soil  in  woods.     New  Jersey,  Ellis. 

Peridium  about  I  in.  in  diameter  and  an  inch  or  more  in  height. 
The  microscopic  features  are  given  from  specimens  received  from  Mr. 
Ellis.  Morgan. 

Near  Haddonfield,  N.  J.,  1891-1896.      Sandy  woods.     Mcllvaine. 

Not  frequent.  Those  found  upon  several  occasions  were  eaten  and 
found  good. 

L.  asterosper'mum  D.  and  M. — aster,  star;  sperma,  seed.  Perid- 
ium obovoid  or  pyriform  (pear-shaped),  the  base  short  and  pointed, 
with  a  slender  fibrous  mycelium.  Cortex  a  thin  coat  of  minute  spinules 
with  intermingled  granules,  gray  or  brownish  above,  paler  below; 
these  dry  up  and  are  a  long  time  persistent,  but  they  finally  fall  away, 
leaving  the  inner  peridium  with  a  pale  brown,  smooth,  shining  surface. 
Subgleba  obconical,  occupying  nearly  a  third  part  of  the  peridium; 
mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  olivaceous,  then  brownish-purple;  the 
threads  about  as  thick  as  the  spores,  with  slender  tapering  branches. 
Spores  globose,  distinctly  warted,  5. 5-6.5/4  in  diameter. 

594 


Liycoperdacero 


Peridium  i-iK  in.  in  diameter.     A  very  pretty  species  of  regular  Lycoperdc 
form;  its  glossy  cortex  is  quite  persistent.      Morgan. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  open  woods.  Ohio,  Morgan;  Nebraska, 
Webber. 

New  York,  Peck,  46th,  5ist  Rep. ;  Ohio,  Lloyd. 

L.  delica'tum  Berk.  Peridium  subglobose,  plicate  underneath,  with 
a  fibrous  mycelium.  Cortex  a  thin  coat  of  minute  spinules  and  gran- 
ules, gray  cr  brownish  above,  whitish  below,  finally  falling  away  from 
the  smooth,  shining,  pale  or  brownish  surface  of  the  inner  peridium. 
Subgleba  very  small  or  quite  obsolete ;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium 
olivaceous,  then  pale  or  brownish-purplish;  the  threads  rather  thinner 
than  the  spores,  with  slender  tapering  branches.  Spores  globose,  dis- 
tinctly warted,  5— 6/x.  in  diameter. 

Peridium  1-2  in.  in  diameter.     Morgan. 

Growing  on  the  ground.  Pennsylvania,  Gentry;  Missouri,  Professor 
Trelease  (Peck,  Rep.  40);  Louisiana,  Langlois. 

(</)  Cortex  a  furfuraceous  persistent  coat. 
L.  glabel'lum  Pk. — smooth,  bare.     Subglobose  or  subturbinate,  I- 


1.5  in.  broad,  sometimes  narrowed  below  into 
a  short  stem-like  base,  furfuraceous  with  very 
minute  nearly  uniform  persistent  warts,  which 
appear  to  the  naked  eye  like  minute  granules 
or  papillae,  yellow,  opening  by  a  small  aper- 
ture ;  inner  mass  purplish-brown,  capillitium 
with  a  central  columella.  Spores  purplish- 
brown,  globose,  rough,  5-6. 5/u.  in  diameter. 

Ground  in  copses  and  in  pine  woods.  West 
Albany  and  North  Greenbush.  Autumn. 
Peck,  3  ist  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Ohio,  Morgan;  Wisconsin,  Trelease;  West 
Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey.  Fre- 
quent. Autumn.  Mcllvaine. 

One  of  the  prettiest  Lycoperdons.  Sym- 
metrical, and  otherwise  attractive.  Sweet, 
firm,  solid.  It  is  not  high  in  flavor,  but  is  delicate. 

595 


(Plate  CLXVI.) 


LYCOPERDON  GLABELLUM. 
(After  Morgan.) 


Gastromycetes 

Lycoperdon.  L.  elonga'tum  Berk. — elongated.  Peridium  globose  above,  con- 
tracted below  into  a  stout  thick  base,  more  or  less  elongated  and  cylin- 
dric  or  tapering  downward ;  mycelium  composed  of  thick  fibers.  Cor- 
tex a  loose  flocculose  white  or  yellowish  coat,  drying  up  into  a  mealy 
or  furfuraceous  persistent  layer,  which  scarcely  reveals  the  pale  shining 
surface  of  the  inner  peridium.  Subgleba  occupying  more  than  half  the 
interior  of  the  peridium;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  pale  olivaceous, 
then  pale  brown  or  finally  purplish ;  the  threads  much  branched,  the 
main  stem  much  thicker  than  the  spores,  the  branches  tapering.  Spores 
globose,  distinctly  warted,  5.5-6.5^  in  diameter. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  damp  woods.  Ohio,  Morgan.  Peridium 
1-2  in.  in  diameter  and  2-3  in.  in  height,  the  base  %-i  in.  in  thick- 
ness. In  form  it  somewhat  resembles  L.  gemmatum,  but  it  has  a  cor- 
tex like  that  of  L.  glabellum.  Morgan. 

New  York,  Peck,  49th  Rep.  Closely  allied  to  L.  glabellum.  Its 
stout  elongated  base  serves  as  a  mark  of  distinction. 

Ohio,  Morgan;  Pennsylvania,  Washington,  Pa.,   Myc.   Club. 

Not  common.  Sometimes  tufted,  three  or  four  together.  Edible, 
good. 

L.  el'egans  Morgan — elegant.  Peridium  large,  depressed  globose, 
plicate  underneath  and  sometimes  with  a  narrow  umboniform  base, 
which  is  continuous  with  the  thick  root.  Cortex  at  first  flocculose, 
white  or  yellowish,  drying  up  into  a  dense  furfuraceous  persistent  coat, 
which  becomes  ochraceous  or  brownish  in  color,  and  sometimes  ob- 
scurely areolate.  Subgleba  broad,  convex  above,  occupying  a  third 
part  or  more  of  the  peridium  ;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  olivaceous, 
then  pale-brown  or  finally  purplish-brown;  the  threads  much  branched, 
the  main  stem  thicker  than  the  spores,  the  branches  long  and  tapering. 
Spores  globose,  distinctly  warted,  5-6>  in  diameter. 

Growing  on  rich  soil  on  the  open  prairie  about  Iowa  City,  la.,  Prof. 
T.  H.  McBride.  Peridium  1^—3  in.  in  diameter.  In  form  and  size 
this  species  somewhat  resembles  Calvatia  fragilis,  but  the  threads  are  ar- 
ranged in  two  sets  as  in  Lycoperdon ;  the  cortex  is  similar  to  that  of  L. 
glabellum;  the  mycelium  forms  a  remarkably  thick  root.  Morgan. 


596 


Lycoperdacese 


Cortex  a  smooth,  continuous  layer,  becoming  areolate. 


(Plate  CLXVII.) 


LYCOPERDON  RIMULATUM. 

With  magnified  spores. 

(After  Morgan.) 


L.  rimula'tum  Pk. — rimula,  a  small  chink.  Peridium  depressed —  Lycoperdon. 
globose  or  broadly  obovoid,  plicate  under- 
neath with  a  slender  fibrous  mycelium. 
Cortex  at  first  a  thin,  smooth,  continuous 
fibrillose  layer,  gray  or  bluish-gray,  some- 
times with  a  purplish  tinge;  this  at  length 
breaks  into  a  network  of  fine  lines  or  fis- 
sures, gradually  dries  up  into  minute  thin 
adnate  scales,  and  finally  falls  away  from 
the  smooth  grayish  or  purplish-brown 
surface  of  the  inner  peridium.  Subgleba 
broad,  but  distinct,  plane  above,  occupy- 
ing about  a  fourth  part  of  the  peridium ; 
mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  purplish- 
gray,  then  brownish-purple;  the  threads 

simple  or  scarcely  branched,  variable  in  thickness,  but  always  thinner 
than  the  spores.  Spores  globose,  distinctly  warted,  6—7/1  in  diameter, 
often  pedicellate. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  fields  and  open  woods.  New  York,  Peck; 
South  Carolina,  Atkinson;  Ohio,  Morgan;  Wisconsin,  Trelease.  Perid- 
ium %  —  \%  in.  in  diameter,  scarcely  an  inch  in  height.  Morgan. 

New  Jersey,  T.  J.  Collins;  Pennsylvania.     Autumn.     Mcllvaine. 

A  pretty  species,  generally  in  groups.  Frequent.  It  is  not  common, 
but  occasionally  generous  patches  of  it  are  found.  Edible,  good. 

L.  vela'tum  Vitt. — velatus,  having  a  velum.  Peridium  globose  or 
obovoid,  with  a  cord-like  root.  Cortex  white  or  yellowish,  at  first  a 
thickish  continuous  layer,  then  breaking  up  into  circular  or  irregular 
persistent  patches  with  fimbriate  margins.  Subgleba  occupying  about 
a  third  part  of  the  peridium ;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  olivaceous, 
then  purplish-brown;  the  threads  branched,  the  main  stem  nearly  as 
thick  as  the  spores,  the  branches  long  and  tapering.  Spores  globose, 
distinctly  warted,  5-6ft  in  diameter. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  woods.      South  Carolina,  Ravenel. 

Peridium  1-2  in.  in  diameter.     Morgan. 


597 


Gastromycetes 

Lycoperdon.       New  Jersey,  T.  J.  Collins /  Chester  county,  Pa.,  sometimes  clustered, 
Mcllvaine. 
Good. 

II. — OLIVE-SPORED  SERIES. 

A.    PERIDIUM  TOP-SHAPED,  THE  SUBGLEBA  WELL  DEVELOPED. 
(/)  Cortex  of  long  spines,  etc. 

L.  gemma' tum  Batsch. — gemmed.  Peridium  turbinate,  depressed 
above,  the  base  short  and  obconic  or  more  elongated  and  tapering  or 
subcylindric,  arising  from  a  fibrous  mycelium.  Cortex  consisting  of 
long,  thick,  erect  spines  or  warts  of  irregular  shape,  with  intervening 
smaller  ones,  whitish  or  gray  in  color,  sometimes  with  a  tinge  of  red  or 
brown ;  the  larger  spines  first  fall  away,  leaving  pale  spots  on  the  sur- 
face, and  giving  it  a  reticulate  appearance.  Subgleba  variable  in  amount, 
usually  more  than  half  the  peridium ;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium 
greenish-yellow,  then  pale-brown;  threads  simple  or  scarcely  branched, 
about  as  thick  as  the  spores.  Spores  globose,  even  or  very  minutely 
warted,  3.5—4.5^  in  diameter.  (Plate  CLXVIIa. ) 

Peridium  1-2  in.  in  diameter  and  1-3  in.  in  height.  This  species  is 
distinguished  from  all  others  by  the  peculiar  large  erect  terete  spines  or 
warts,  the  so-called  gems  which  stud  its  upper  surface.  Morgan. 

Growing  on  the  ground  and  sometimes  on  rotten  trunks  in  woods, 
often  cespitose.  Frost.  New  York,  Peck. 

Found  in  every  part  of  the  world. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  22  ;  Indiana,  H ' .  I.  Miller ;  West  Virginia, 
New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  On  the  ground  and  on  logs.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible,  but  not  pleasant.     Peck.      Edible,  H.  I.  Miller. 

Professor  Peck  gives  two  varieties : 

Var.  hir'tum.  Turbinate,  subsessile,  hairy  with  soft,  slender  warts 
which  generally  become  blackish. 

Var.  papilla'tum.  Subrotund,  sessile,  papillose,  furfuraceous-pul- 
verulent. 

Very  common  and  known  in  all  countries.  It  is,  to  my  thinking,  our 
prettiest  puff-ball.  Its  beautifully  studded  surface,  reminding  of  ex- 
quisite settings,  is  in  itself  worth  studying  for  the  designs.  It  is  usually 
solitary  or  in  small  groups,  but  at  times  these  groups  contain  scores  of 

598 


n 

o 

-o 
m 

PC 
D 
O 


O 
m 


H 
C 


I 

•' 


Lycoperdaceee 

individuals.      It  grows  in  the  open  on  the  ground  or  from  both  ground  Lycoperdon. 
and  wood,  in  woods. 

I  think  it  equal  to  any  other  puff-ball.  But  great  care  must  betaken 
to  examine  each  specimen  before  putting  it  into  the  pan.  A  single  one, 
which  has  turned  yellow  in  the  slightest  degree,  will  spoil  a  whole  dish. 
And  this  is  the  case  with  any  of  the  small  puff-balls.  One  ageing  L. 
pyriforme  will  embitter  a  hundred. 

L.  perla'tum  Pers. — perfero,  to  endure.  (Enduring  through  winter.) 
Peridium  turbinate,  broad  and  depressed  above,  plicate  underneath 
and  contracted  into  a  short  and  pointed  or  sometimes  elongated  and 
tapering  base;  mycelium  fibrous.  Cortex  of  long  slender  spines, 
mingled  with  smaller  spinules  and  warts,  gray  brown  or  blackish  in 
color;  the  longer  spines  first  fall  away,  leaving  a  reticulate  surface  to 
the  inner  peridium.  Subgleba  occupying  one-third  to  one-half  of  the 
peridium ;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  greenish-yellow,  then  brown- 
ish-olivaceous;  the  threads  mostly  simple,  some  of  them  thicker  than 
the  spores.  Spores  globose,  even  or  very  minutely  warted,  3.5-4.5^ 
in  diameter. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  woods.  Peridium  1—2  in.  in  diameter  and 
i—2  in.  in  height.  This  is  L.  gemmatum,  var.  hirtum,  of  Peck's  United 
States  species  of  Lycoperdon.  Morgan. 

New  York,  Peck,  46th  Rep.  ;  Maryland,  James;  West  Virginia,  New 
Jersey.  Occasional.  On  ground  and  decaying  wood.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Same  habit  and  quality  as  L.  gemmatum. 

(<£")  Cortex  of  stout  spines  which  fall  away,  etc. 

L.  excipulifor'me  Scop. — excipula,  a  receptacle.  Peridium  turbin- 
ate, depressed  above,  plicate  below  and  contracted  into  a  more  or  less 
elongated  base.  Cortex  of  large  stout  spines,  convergent  above, 
becoming  smaller  downward,  which  at  length  fall  away,  leaving  a 
tomentose  surface  to  the  inner  peridium.  Subgleba  occupying  one- 
half  or  more  of  the  peridium ;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  greenish- 
yellow,  then  brownish-olivaceous;  the  threads  about  as  thick  as  the 
spores,  scarcely  branched.  Spores  globose,  minutely  warted,  4-5/1*  in 
diameter. 

Peridium  1-2  in.  in  diameter  and  1-4  in.  in  height.     Morgan. 

599 


Gastromycetes 

Lycoperdon.       Growing  on   the    ground   in    meadows    and    woods. 
North  Carolina,  Schweinitz;  Canada,  Saccardo. 


Pennsylvania, 


Cortex  of  long  spines,  etc.,  which  fall  away,  etc. 


L.  pedicella'tum  Pk. — pediculus,  a  little  foot.    Peridium  %-\%  in. 

in  diameter,    globose  or    depressed- 
Plate  CLXVIII.)  globose,   sessile    or  narrowed  below 

into  a  stem-like  base,  whitish  or  ci- 
nereous, becoming  dingy  or  smoky- 
brown  with  age,  echinate  with  rather 
dense  spines  which  are  either  straight, 
curved  or  stellately  united  and  which 
at  length  fall  off  and  leave  impressions 
or  obscure  reticulations  on  the  sur- 
face ;  capillitium  and  spores  greenish- 
yellow,  then  dingy-olive,  columella 
present .  Spores  smooth ,  pedicellate , 
4-4. 5/i  in  diameter,  the  pedicel  three 
to  five  times  as  long. 

Ground  and  decaying  wood  in 
woods  and  bushy  places.      Croghan, 

Center,  Brewerton  and  Catskill  mountains.  Autumn.  Oneida.  Warne. 
The  pedicellate  spores  constitute  the  peculiar  feature  of  this  species. 
It  is  one  which  suggests  the  name  and  which  enables  the  species  to  be 
easily  distinguished  from  all  its  allies.  The  spore  is  terminally  and  per- 
sistently attached  to  the  pedicel,  as  in  some  species  of  Bovista.  The 
plant  is  sometimes  sessile,  but  usually  it  is  narrowed  below  into  a  stem- 
like  base.  In  the  immature ^state  it  has  a  rough,  shaggy  appearance, 
but  the  spines  shrivel  with  age  so  that  it  appears  less  rough  when  old. 
The  pitted  surface  of  the  denuded  peridium  affords  a  mark  of  distinc- 
tion from  L.  echinatum.  L.  pulcherrimum  B.  and  C.  is  evidently  the 
same  species,  but  the  name  here  adopted  has  priority  of  publication. 
Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Growing  on  the  ground  and  on  rotten  wood  in  woods.     New  York, 
Peck;  Alabama,  Atkinson;  Ohio,  Morgan;  Wisconsin,  Trelease. 


LYCOPERDON  PEDICELLATUM 
With  magnified  spores.  (After  Morgan.) 


6OO 


Lycoperdacese 


L.  exi'mium  Morgan — eximius,  excellent.      Peridium  obovoid,  with  Lycoperdon. 

a  fibrous  mycelium.     Cortex  white 

(Plate  CLXIX.)  or    brownish,    composed    of    long 

slender  spines,  often  curved  and 
convergent  at  the  apex,  which  at 
length  fall  away  from  above  down- 
ward, leaving  a  pale  smooth  sur- 
face to  the  inner  peridium.  Sub- 
gleba  small,  occupying  scarcely 

more  than  a  fourt^  part  of  the  per" 

idium ;  mass  of  spores  and  capilli- 
tium  greenish-yellow,  then  brown- 
ish-olivaceous ;  the  threads  mostly 
thinner  than  the  spores,  much 
branched.  Spores  oval,  even,  5»- 
6x4-4. 5/A,  usually  furnished  with  a 
short  pedicel. 
Peridium  %—l%  in.  in  diameter  and  about  I  in.  in  height.  This 

species  is  readily  distinguished  by  its  large  oval  spores.     Morgan. 
Growing  on  the  ground  in  sandy  soil.     South  Carolina,  Prof.  Geo. 

F.  Atkinson;  Alabama    U.  and  E. 


Peridium  glo- 


LYCOPERDON  EXIMIUM. 
With  magnified  spores.    (After  Morgan.) 


( Plate  CLXX.) 


L.  Cur'tisii  Berk. — in  honor  of  Rev.  M.  A.  Curtis, 
bose,  with  a  very  short  rooting  base 
and  a  slender  fibrous  mycelium.    Cor- 
tex   consisting   of    a    pale    yellowish 
farinaceous  layer,  covered  by  a  coat 
of  soft,  fragile  white  spines,   curved 
and   convergent  at  the   apex;    after 
maturity  it  soon  disappears,  leaving 
a  pale  smooth  surface  to  the   inner 
peridium.      Subgleba  small,  but  dis- 
tinct, convex  above  and  definitely  limited ;   mass  of  spores  and  capil- 
litium  greenish-yellow,  then  pale  olivaceous ;   the  threads  long,  simple, 
hyaline,  two  to  three  times  as  thick  as  the  spores.      Spores  globose, 
even,  3.S-4/"-  in  diameter. 

Peridium  K-M   of  an  inch  in  diameter.     This  is  L.  Wrightii,  var. 
typicum,  of  Peck's  U.  S.  species  of  Lycoperdon.     The  peculiar  charac- 

60 1 


LYCOPERDON  CURTISII. 
(After  Morgan.) 


Gastromycetes 

Lycoperdon.  teristic  of  the  species  is  the  hyaline  threads  of  the  capillitium ;  although 
they  are  of  large  diameter,  yet  the  walls  are  very  thin  and  the  threads 
collapse  in  drying.  Morgan. 

General.  Growing  gregariously  and  sometimes  cespitosely  on  the 
ground,  in  meadows,  pastures  and  even  in  cultivated  fields. 

This  being  L.  Wrightii,  var.  typicum  Pk. ,  and  being  edible,  it  is  hardly 
necessary  to  repeat  the  old  axiom :  Things  which  are  equal  to  the 
same  thing  are  equal  to  one  another. 

(z)  Cortex  of  minute  spinules,  granules,  etc. 

L.  molle  Pers. — mollis,  soft.  (L.  muscorum  Morg.)  Peridilim 
6— 1 6  lines  broad,  globose  or  depressed-globose,  narrowed  below  into  a 
stem-like  base,  furfuraceous  with  nearly  uniform  persistent  minute  weak 
spinules  or  granular  warts,  sometimes  with  a  few  larger  papilliform  ones 
toward  the  apex,  whitish,  sometimes  tinged  with  yellow,  when  mature 
brownish  or  olive-brown,  nearly  smooth,  subshining;  capillitium  and 
spores  dingy-olive;  columella  present.  Spores  minutely  rough,  4-4.5/4 
in  diameter. 

Among  mosses,  especially  Polytrichum,  in  old  meadows  and  pastures. 
Albany,  Summit  and  South  Corinth.  Autumn. 

Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania.  On  ground  in  woods  and  grassy  places 
in  the  open.  Mcllvaine. 

L.  molle  is  of  frequent  occurrence  but  not 
( Plate  CLXXI.) 

abundant.  Though  exceedingly  soft,  it  holds 

its  body  in  cooking  and  is  well  flavored. 

L.   Tur'neri    E.   and    E.       Peridium 

obovoid,  somewhat  depressed  above,  pli- 
cate underneath,  with  a  mycelium  of 
rooting  fibers.  Cortex  white,  often  gray 
or  brownish  above,  consisting  of  minute 
spinules  with  intermingled  granules ;  these 
after  maturity  dry  up  and  are  quite  per- 
LYCOPERDON  TURNER:  sistent>  forming  a  minutely  scabrous  coat  on 

With  magnified  spores.  the  olive-brown  shining  surface  of  the  inner 

(After  Morgan.) 

peridium.      Subgleba   broad   and   shallow, 

scarcely  occupying  more  than  a  fourth  part  of  the  peridium ;    mass  of 

602 


PLATE  CLXXII. 


Lycoperdaceas 

spores  and  capillitium  greenish-yellow,  then  brownish-olivaceous;    the  Lycoperdc 
threads  with   the   main   stem  about  as  thick   as   the   spores,  and    long 
tapering  branches.      Spores  globose,  minutely  warted,  4-5/4  in  diameter, 
mostly  with  a  short  pedicel. 

Pei'idium  1-2  in.  in  diameter  and  I— 2  in.  in  height.  A  very  pretty 
puff-ball  with  a  silky  shining  coat.  Morgan. 

New  York,  Peck,  49th  Rep. ;  West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New 
Jersey.  Ground  in  woods.  August  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Not  frequent  though  general.      It  is  good  but  must  be  young. 

L.  calyptrifor'me  Berk. — hood-shaped.  Peridium  about  6  lines 
high,  3—4  in.  broad,  ovate  or  subconical,  sessile,  whitish,  furfuraceous 
with  minute  warts  or  spinules ;  capillitium  and  spores  olivaceous  or  yel- 
lowish-olivaceous. Spores  smooth,  4/x  in  diameter. 

Moss*covered  rocks.     Very  rare.     Adirondack  mountains.     August. 

I  have  met  with  this  very  small  and  rare  species  but  once,  and  then 
but  two  specimens  were  found .  In  these  the  apex  was  compressed  or  later- 
ally flattened,  instead  of  papilliform.as  required  by  the  original  description 
of  the  species ;  but  in  all  other  respects  they  agree  well  with  the  specific 
characters.  The  plant  is  very  distinct  from  all  our  other  species  by  its 
small  size  and  ovate  or  conical  shape.  Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

(/£)  Cortex  of  minute  spinules,  scales  or  granules.     Lignatile. 

L.  pyrifor'me  Schaeff. — pear-shape.  (Plate  CLXXII,  p.  602.)  Plant 
6-15  lines  broad,  10-20  lines  high,  generally  cespitose,  obovate,  pyri- 
form  or  turbinate,  sessile  or  with  a  short  stem-like  base,  radicating  with 
white  branching  and  creeping  root-like  fibers,  subumbonate,  covered 
with  very  minute  subpersistent,  nearly  uniform  warts  or  scales,  often 
with  a  few  slender  scattered  deciduous  spinules  intermingled,  pallid 
dingy-whitish  or  brownish  ;  capillitium  and  spores  greenish-yellow,  then 
dingy-olivaceous,  columella  present.  Spores  smooth,  4ft  in  diameter. 
Edible,  but  not  well-flavored. 

Decaying  wood  and  ground  both  in  woods  and  cleared  fields.  Very 
common.  July  to  October.  Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Common  the  world  over.  Growing  on  logs,  stumps,  ground  containing 
decaying  woody  matter.  So  dense  in  its  clusters  at  times  as  to  present 
an  impervious  surface.  It  is  slightly  acrid  to  taste  and  smell  when  raw. 

Edible.  Tender  and  of  second-class  flavor  when  young;  white 

603 


Gastromycetes 


Lycoperdon.  inside  ;  intensely  bitter  when  slightest  tinge  of  yellow  is  visible.   Onetooold 
will  embitter  a  whole  dish.      A  little  lemon  juice  or  sherry  improves  it. 


( Plate  CLXXIII.) 


LYCOPERDON  SUBINCARNATUM 

With  spines  and  pits  magnified. 

(After  Morgan.) 


L.  subincarna'tum  Pk. — pale  flesh-color.  Peridium  6-12  lines 

broad,  globose,  rarely  either  de- 
pressed or  obovate,  gregarious  or 
cespitose,  sessile,  with  but  little  cel- 
lular tissue  at  the  base,  covered  with 
minute  nearly  uniform  pyramidal  or 
subspinulose  at  length  deciduous 
warts,  pinkish-brown,  the  denuded 
peridium  whitish  or  cinereous,  mi- 
nutely reticulate-pitted ;  capillitium 
and  spores  greenish-yellow,  then 
dingy-olivaceous,  columella  present. 
Spores  minutely  roughened,  4~5/x, 
in  diameter. 

Prostrate  trunks,  old  stumps,  etc.,  in  woods.  Common.  August  to 
October.  Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

New  York,  Peck,  Rep.  24th,  32d;  Pennsylvania,  Gentry;  Ohio, 
Morgan;  Wisconsin,  Brown. 

B.    PERIDIUM  VERY  SMALL,  GLOBOSE,  ETC* 
(/)  Cortex  a  tkin  coat  of  minute  spinules,  etc, 

( Plate  CLXXIV.) 

L.  Wright'ii  B.  and  C. — in  honor 
of  Charles  Wright.  Peridium 
globose,  depressed-globose  or  lenti- 
form,  6—24  lines  in  diameter,  gener- 
ally sessile,  white  or  whitish,  echinate 
with  deciduous  sometimes  crowded 
stellate  spines  or  pyramidal  warts, 
when  denuded  smooth  or  minutely 
velvety ;  capillitium  and  spores  dingy- 
olive,  columella  present.  Spores 
smooth,  4/t  in  diameter.  Edible. 

Ground  in  pastures  and  grassy 
places.  Very  common.  July  to  Octo- 
ber. 

604 


LYCOPERDON  SEPARANS 

With  magnified  spores. 

(After  Morgan.) 


Lycoperdacese 

This  is  another  very  variable  species.    The  typical  form  is  a  small  one,  Lycoperdon. 
minutely  echinate  and  having  the  denuded  peridium  smooth.      The  plant 
often    occurs    much    larger    and    more    coarsely    echinate    with    stout 
angular  spines  or  pyramidal  warts,  which  fall  off  and  generally  leave 
the  surface  of  the  peridium  velvety. 

Var.  typ'icum.  Small,  6—9  lines  broad,  globose,  minutely  echinate, 
the  warts  quickly  falling  off  and  leaving  the  peridium  smooth.  (L. 
Wrightii  B.  and  C.) 

Var.  sep' arans.  Larger,  10—24  lines  broad,  subglobose  or  lentiform, 
echinate  with  coarse  substellate  spines  or  pyramidal  warts,  which  at 
length  fall  off  and  leave  the  peridium  smooth  or  velvety.  (L.  separans 
Pk.) 

Var.  atropunc 'ttim .  Larger,  10—15  lines  broad,  subglobose,  pure 
white,  warts  or  coarse  spines  brown  or  blackish  at  the  tips. 

This  species  is  generally  gregarious,  but  sometimes  it  forms  tufts  of 
several  individuals  closely  crowded  together.  It  sometimes  occurs  in 
cultivated  grounds  and  stubble  fields.  The  under  surface  is  occasionally 
plicate  as  in  the  long-stemmed  puff-ball.  In  the  var.  separans  the 
warts  or  spines  are  crowded  at  their  thickened  bases  and  slightly  at- 
tached to  each  other,  so  that  they  come  off  at  maturity  in  flakes  or 
patches.  When  the  denuded  surface  of  the  p*eridium  is  velvety,  it  is 
usually  of  a  darker  color  than  when  smooth,  being  subcinnamon,  reddish- 
brown  or  dark-brown.  Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

Ground  in  grassy  places.     July  to  frost.     Mcllvaine. 

I  have  found  var.  separans  in  December,  under  snow. 

Edible.     Peck,  Rep.  32. 

The  edible  qualities  of  L.  Wrightii  and  varieties  are  good. 

L.  calves'cens  B.  and  C. — calvesco,  to  become  bald.  Subglobose, 
at  first  rough  with  warts  which  soon  disappear,  leaving  the  surface 
slightly  velvety,  I K  in.  broad,  bearing  short  rootlets  at  the  base.  Spores 
globose,  smooth,  having  at  first  only  a  slight  stalk  (pedicel),  dingy- 
ochraceous,  3—4^. 

Nearly  related  to  L.  Wrightii. 

Connecticut,  Wright,  New  York,  ground  in  open  woods.  Bethle- 
hem, Peck,  22d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

L.  pusil'lum  (Batsch. )  Fr. — small.  Peridium  ^-i  in.  broad,  glob- 
ose, scattered  or  cespitose,  sessile,  radicating,  with  but  little  cellular  tissue 

605 


Gastromycetes 


LYCOPERDON  PUSILLUM. 
(After  Morgan.) 


Lycoperdon.  ( Plate CLXXV. )  at  the  base,  white  or  whitish,  brownish 

when  old,  rimose-squamulose  or  slightly 
roughened  with  minute  floccose  or  fur- 
furaceous  persistent  warts ;  capillitium 
and  spores  greenish-yellow,  then  dingy- 
olivaceous.  Spores  smooth,  4ft  in  dia- 
meter. 

Ground  in  grassy  places  and  pastures. 
Common.  June  to  October.  Peck,  32d 
Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina.  Common. 
Spring  to  autumn  on  ground  in  grassy  places.  Mcllvaine. 

Grows  where  almost  nothing  else  will,  and  where  I  have  despaired  of 
finding  a  meal  of  fungi,  I  could  always  find  the  ubiquitous  L.  pusillum. 

L.  oblongi'sporum  B.  and  C. — oblong-spored.  Peridium  subglo- 
bose,  with  a  slender  mycelial  cord.  Cortex  a  thin,  whitish,  furfuraceous 
coat,  drying  up  into  minute  persistent  granules  on  the  pale-brown  sur- 
face of  the  inner  peridium.  Subgleba  nearly  obsolete;  mass  of  spores 
and  capillitium  olivaceous,  then  brown;  threads  much  branched,  the 
main  stem  about  as  thick  as  the  spores,  the  branches  tapering.  Spores 
elliptic,  even,  5-6x3-4^,  sometimes  with  a  minute  pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  dense  woods.  Wisconsin,  Trelease.  Perid- 
ium %-i  in.  in  diameter.  This  pretty  species,  previously  known  only 
from  Cuba,  is  indistinguishable  from  L.  pusillum  when  immature,  the 
spores  affording  the  only  really  characteristic  feature.  Morgan. 


L. cepsesf or'me Bull. — onion-shaped.  Peridium 
globose  or  depressed-globose,  plicate  underneath, 
with  a  cordlike  root.  Cortex  at  first  a  thin,  white, 
minutely  furfuraceous  coat,  this  soon  becomes  rimu- 
lose  and  at  length  breaks  up  into  small  scales  and 
patches,  which  finally  disappear  from  the  pale  or 
pale-brown  surface  of  the  inner  peridium.  Sub- 
gleba nearly  obsolete  ;  mass  of  spores  and  capillitium 
greenish-yellow,  then  pale-olivaceous  ;  the  threads 
very  much  branched,  the  main  stem  thicker  than  the 
spores,  the  branches  long  and  tapering.  Spores 
globose,  even,  3.5-4^  in  diameter,  often  with  a 
minute  pedicel.  606 


( Plate  CLXXVa.) 


LYCOPERDON 

CEP^ESFORME. 
(After  Morgan.) 


( Plate  CLXXVb.) 


Lycoperdacese 

Peridium  %—\  in.  in  diameter.  Lycoperdon. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  meadows  and  pastures. 
New  York,  Peck,  5ist  Rep. 
Good. 

L.  colora'tum  Pk. — colored.     Peridium  5-10  lines  broad,  globose 

or  obovate,  subsessile,  radicating,  yellow  or  red- 
dish-yellow, brownish  when  old,  slightly  rough- 
ened with  minute  granular  or  furfuraceous  per- 
sistent warts;  capillitium  and  spores  at  first  pale, 
inclining  to  sulphur- color,  then  dingy-olive. 
Spores  subglobose,  smooth,  about  4/u.  in  diameter. 

Ground  in  thin  woods  and  bushy  places.  Sand- 
lake  and  Catskill  mountains.  July  and  August. 

Peck,  32d  Rep.  N.  Y.  State  Bot. 

New  York,  Peck,  29th  Rep. ;  New  England, 
Morgan;  Ohio,  Morgan;  Wisconsin,  Trelease. 


LYCOPERDON  COL- 

ORATUM. 
(After  Morgan. 


(Plate  CLXXVI.) 


L.  acnmina'tum  Bosc. — pointed.    Peridium  globose,  then  ovoid, 

with  a  mycelium  of  fine  white  fibers. 
Cortex  a  white  soft  delicate  continu- 
ous coat,  drying  up  into  a  thin  fur- 
furaceous persistent  layer  on  the  sur- 
face of  the  inner  peridium.  Subgleba 
obsolete  ;  mass  of  spores  and  capilliti- 
um pale-olivaceous  then  dirty-gray; 
threads  simple,  hyaline,  two  to  three 
times  as  thick  as  the  spores.  Spores 
globose,  even,  3/i  in  diameter.  Plate 

II,  fig.  8.      Peridium  H—%  of  an  inch  in  height. 

Growing  on  the  mosses  of  old  logs  and  about  the  base  of  living  trees. 

New  York,   Peck;  North   Carolina,    Curtis ;  South  Carolina,  Ravenel, 

Atkinson;  Ohio,  Morgan;  Costa  Rica,  Oersted. 


°o  o 

LYCOPERDON  ACUMINATUM 
With  spores.     (From  Morgan.) 


607 


(Plate  CLXXVIa.) 

it 


GENUS  X.—  BOVISTEL'LA  Morg. 

Bovisteiia,       Mycelium  cord-like,  rooting  from  the   base.      Peridium  subglobose, 

with  a  well-developed  base;  cortex  a  dense 
floccose  subpersistent  coat ;  inner  peridium 
thin,  membranaceous,  dehiscent  by  a  regular 
apical  mouth.  Subgleba  cellulose,  cup-shaped 
above  and  definitely  limited,  persistent;  cap- 
illitium  originating  within  the  tissue  of  the 
gleba;  the  threads  free,  short,  several  times 
dichotomously  (two-forked)  branched,  the 
main  stem  thicker  than  the  diameter  of  the 
spores,  the  branches  tapering.  Spores  small, 
SECTION  BOVISTELLA  globose  or  oval,  even,  pedicellate. 

OHIENSIS.  ^  puff-ball  of  moderate  size,   growing  in 

Showing  cellulose  and  defi- 
nitely limited  subgleba  and     fields  and  open  woods.      Morgan. 
the  free  threads  of  the  capil- 
litium.     (From  Morgan.) 

B.  OMen'sis  Ellis  and  Morg.  Peridium  globose  or  broadly  obovoid, 
sometimes  much  depressed,  plicate  under- 
neath, with  a  thick  cord-like  root.  Cortex  a 
dense  floccose  coat,  sometimes  segregated 
into  soft  warts  or  spines,  white  or  grayish  in 
color ;  this  dries  up  into  a  thick  buff-colored 
or  dirty  ochraceous  layer,  which  gradually 
falls  away,  leaving  a  smooth,  shining,  pale- 
brown  or  yellowish  surface  to  the  inner  perid- 
ium. Subgleba  broad,  ample,  occupying 
one-half  the  peridium,  a  long  time  persistent; 
mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  lax,  friable, 
clay-color  to  pale-brown;  the  threads  .6-. 8 
mm.  in  extent,  three  to  five  times  branched, 
the  main  stem  6-8fi  in  thickness,  the  branches 

tapering.      Spores  globose  or  oval,  even,  4-5^  in  length  by  3.5-4^  in 
breadth,  with  long  hyaline  persistent  pedicels. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  old  pastures,  in  fields  and  open  woods. 

Morgan. 

This  species  of  puff-ball  is  made  the  type  of  the  new  genus  BovisteUa 

by  Mr.  Morgan. 

608 


(Plate  CLXXVII.) 


BOVISTELLA  OHIENSIS. 
Natural  size. 


Lycoperdacess 


GENUS  XI.— CATAS'TOMA  Morg. 

Puff-balls  growing  just  beneath  the  surface  of  the  ground  and  con-  Catastoma. 
nected  immediately  with  it  by  filamentous  threads,  which  issue  from 
every  part  of  the  cortex;  after  maturity,  when  the  peridium  breaks 
away,  the  lower  part  of  the  outer  coat  is  held  fast  by  the  soil,  while  the 
upper  portion  which  has  attained  the  surface  remains,  covering  the  in- 
ner peridium  like  a  cap  or  inverted  cup ;  consequently  the  apparent 
apex  at  which  the  mouth  is  situated  is  the  actual  base  of  the  plant  as  it 
grows.  The  capillitium  threads  are  similar  to  the  densely  interwoven 
hyphas,  which  form  the  inner  peridium  and  are  evidently  branches  of 
them  radiating  from  the  interior.  It  is  plain  that  the  affinities  of  these 
plants  are  closest  with  Tylostoma  and  Astrasus,  but  the  needs  of  a  sys- 
tematic arrangement,  according  to  more  obvious  characters,  causes  us 
to  place  them  next  to  Bo  vista.  Morgan. 


( Plate  CLXXVIII . )    Peridium  sub- 


(Plate  CLXXVIII.) 


C.  circumscis'sum  B.  and  C 

globose,  more  or  less  de- 
pressed and  often  quite  ir- 
regular; cortex  thickish,  fra- 
gile, usually  rough  and  uneven 
from  the  adhering  soil,  after 
maturity  torn  away,  leaving 
the  lower  two-thirds  or  more 
in  the  ground  ;  inner  peridium 
depressed  -  globose,  subcori- 
aceous,  rather  thin,  pallid,  be- 
coming gray,  minutely  furfu- 
raceous,  with  a  small  regular 

basal  mouth.  Mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  soft,  compact,  then  friable, 
olivaceous,  changing  to  pale  brown;  the  pieces  of  the  threads  short, 
unequal  in  length,  flexuous,  hyaline,  3-4f.  in  thickness.  Spores  glo- 
bose, minutely  warted,  4—  5/u.  in  diameter,  often  with  a  minute  pedicel. 

Growing  in  heavy  clay  soil  in  old  lanes  and  pastures,  especially  along 
the  hard-trodden  paths. 

Maine,  Blake;  Ohio,  Morgan;  "Kansas,  Kellerman;  Nebraska,  Webber. 

Inner  peridium  K—  %  in.  in  diameter. 

This  is  Bovista  circumscissa  B.   and  C.,  of    Berkeley's    Notices    of 
39  609 


CATASTOMA  CIRCUMSCISSUM. 
Showing  method   of  growth,  breaking  away 
and   turning  over.     Section   of  same    showing 
origin  of  the  threads  of  the  capillitium. 
(After  Morgan.) 


Gastromycetes 

Catastoma.  North  America  Fungi.  It  grows  in  great  abundance  with  us  some  sea- 
sons, right  in  the  hard-trodden  barn-yard,  and  along  the  lane  to  the  cat- 
tle pasture.  Arachnion  album  Schw.  usually  keeps  it  company.  Mor- 
gan. 

I  have  not  seen  this  acrobatic  species.  Study  of  its  unique  habit  sug- 
gests the  query :  Is  not  the  turning  over  of  its  spore-filled  portion  a 
substitute  for  an  original  but  lost  power  of  growing  right  side  up? 


GENUS  XII.— BOVIS'TA  Dill. 

Bovista.       Mycelium  fibrous  or  sometimes  filamentous.      Peridium  subglobose, 

without  a  thickened  base;    cortex  a  thin 

(Plate  CLXXIX.)  fragile  continuous  layer,  shelling  off  or  dis- 

appearing at  maturity,  except  sometimes  a 
small  portion  about  the  base ;  inner  perid- 
ium  thin,  membranaceous,  becoming  papy- 
raceous, dehiscent  by  an  apical  mouth  or 

opening  irregularly.      Capillitium  originat- 
ing within   the   tissue   of  the   gleba ;    the 
BOVISTA  MINOR  AND  SECTION.     ,,          •,     t  ,  ,    ,.  ,.  , 

(From  Morgan.)  threads  free,  short,  several  times  dichoto- 

mously    branched,    the    main    stem   much 

thicker  than  the  diameter  of  the  spores,  the  branches  tapering.    Spores 
small,  globose,  or  oval,  even,  brown.     Morgan. 

Small  puff-balls  growing  upon  the  ground  in  fields  and  woods.  One 
grows  underground. 

B.  pi'la  B.and  C. — a  ball.  Peridium  globose  or  obovoid,  with  a 
stout,  cord-like  root.  Cortex  a  thin,  white,  smooth,  continuous  coat, 
breaking  up  at  maturity  into  minute  scales,  which  soon  disappear;  inner 
peridium  thickish,  tough,  rigid,  becoming  brown  or  purplish-brown, 
smooth  and  shining,  a  long  time  persistent,  and  finally  with  age  often 
fading  to  silvery-gray  ;  dehiscence  taking  place  at  length  by  an  irregular, 
torn  aperture  at  or  about  the  apex.  Mass  of  spores  and  capillitium 
very  firm,  compact  and  persistent,  at  first  clay-colored,  pale  brown  or 
olivaceous,  at  length  dark  or  purplish-brown;  the  threads  rather  small, 
.6-. 8  mm.  in  extent,  three  to  five  times  branched,  12— 15/u.  thick,  the 
ultimate  branches  rigid,  nearly  straight,  tapering  to  a  fine  point.  Spores 

610 


LycoperdaceaB 

globose,  even,  4-5/*  in  diameter,  sessile  or  with  only  a  minute 
pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  woods. 

Peridium  i%—2%  in.  in  diameter. 

This  Bovista  is  remarkably  tough,  it  maintains  its  shape  firmly  and 
persists  a  long  time ;  it  breaks  away  from  its  root  and  rolls  about  over 
the  old  leaves  before  the  wind,  even  till  the  following  season.  Morgan. 

West  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  in  fields  and  woods  on 
ground.  June  to  October.  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Tre  lease. 

When  young  and  fresh  it  is  excellent. 

B.  Monta'na  Morg.  Peridium  subglobose  with  a  cord-like  root. 
Cortex  a  thin  white  continuous  layer,  breaking  up  at  maturity  into  a 
mealy  or  furfuraceous  coat,  which  soon  falls  away;  inner  peridium  thin, 
flaccid,  becoming  brown,  smooth  and  shining,  dehiscent  by  an  irregular 
torn  aperture  about  the  apex.  Mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  soft,  lax, 
at  first  ochraceous  or  pale-brown,  finally  purplish-brown;  the  threads 
curled  and  flexuous,  very  large,  with  an  expanse  of  1.25-1.75  mm., 
four  to  seven  times  branched,  the  main  stem  15— 2Op.  in  thickness, 
the  ultimate  branches  long  and  tapering.  Spores  globose,  even,  4.5— 
5.5^  in  diameter,  often  with  a  minute  pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  ground.  Rocky  mountains.  Jones.  Peridium  i-Ja  — 
2 'in.  in  diameter.  This  differs  from  B.  pila  in  being  soft,  flaccid,  and 
soon  collapsing;  it,  no  doubt,  is  not  so  persistent.  Microscopically  it 
is  readily  distinguished  by  its  much  larger  threads.  Morgan. 

B.  nigres'cens  (Vitt. )  Pers. — blackish.  Peridium  subglobose,  with 
a  fibrous  mycelium.  Cortex  a  thin,  smooth,  white  continuous  layer,  at 
maturity  breaking  up  into  scales,  which  soon  disappear;  inner  peridium 
thin,  flaccid,  becoming  dark-brown,  smooth  and  shining,  dehiscent  at 
the  apex  by  a  lacerate  mouth.  Mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  soft,  lax, 
at  first  ochraceous  or  olivaceous,  at  length  purplish-brown;  the  threads 
flexuous,  about  I  mm.  in  extent,  three  to  five  times  branched,  the  main 
stem  12-iS/u.  thick,  the  ultimate  branches  tapering.  Spores  globose  or 
oval,  even,  5-6>  in  diameter,  with  long  hyaline  pedicels. 

Growing  in  old  pastures,  in  fields  and  woods.  Canada,  Saccardo; 
Pennsylvania,  Schweinitz ;  North  Carolina,  Curtis;  Ohio,  Lea;  Cali- 
fornia, Harkness. 

6u 


Gastromycetes 

Bovista.  Peridium  1—2  in.  in  diameter.  I  have  never  succeeded  in  obtaining 
an  American  specimen  of  this  species ;  my  description  is  drawn  up  from 
European  specimens.  Morgan. 

Pennsylvania,  Mcllvaine.      B.  nigrescens  is  a  first-class  puff-ball. 

B.  plum'bea  Pers. — lead-colored.  Peridium  %—\%  in.  in  diameter, 
depressed-globose,  with  a  fibrous  mycelium.  Cortex  a  thin,  smooth, 
white  continuous  coat,  loosening  at  maturity  and  shelling  off,  except 
sometimes  a  small  portion  about  the  base;  inner  peridium  thin,  tough, 
smooth,  lead-colored,  dehiscent  at  the  apex  by  a  round  or  oblong 
aperture.  Mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  soft,  lax,  ochraceous  or  oli- 
vaceous, then  purplish-brown,  the  threads  .8—1.0  mm.  in  extent,  three 
to  five  times  branched,  the  main  stem  i2-i6/*  thick,  the  ultimate 
branches  long,  straight  and  tapering  to  a  fine  point.  Spores  oval,  even, 
6-7x5-6/4,  with  long  hyaline  pedicels. 

Growing  on  the  ground  in  meadows  and  pastures.     Morgan. 

Indiana,  in  abandoned  brick-yard,  H.  I.  Miller;  West  Virginia,  New 
Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  Common  on  ground  in  open  places.  Solitary 
or  in  groups.  Spring  to  autumn;  after  rains,  Mcllvaine. 

Edible.      Tre lease,  Badham. 

The  botanic  difference  between  a  Lycoperdon  and  a  Bovista  does 
not  affect  the  Mycophagist.  He  can  not  distinguish  the  difference  when 
cooked.  B.  plumbea  is  given  in  Cooke  and  in  Massee  as  Lycoperdon 
plumbeum.  Bovista  plumbea  is  a  first-class  edible. 

B.  mi'nor  Morg.  (Plate  CLXXIX,  p.  610.)  Peridium  subglobose, 
deeply  sunk  in  the  soil  and  connected  with  it  by  a  filamentous  mycelium, 
which  issues  from  every  part  of  the  surface.  Cortex  thickish,  rough 
and  irregular  from  the  adherent  soil,  fragile,  falling  away  at  maturity, 
except  sometimes  a  small  portion  about  the  base;  inner  peridium  thin, 
smooth,  flaccid,  reddish-brown,  dehiscent  by  a  regular  apical  mouth. 
Mass  of  spores  and  capillitium  olivaceous,  then  reddish-brown ;  the 
threads  curled  and  flexuous,  with  an  expanse  of  1.0-1.5  mm.,  two  to 
four  times  branched,  the  main  stem  10—15^  thick,  the  ultimate 
branches  very  long  and  tapering  to  a  fine  point.  Spores  globose  or 
slightly  oval,  even,  3.5-4. 5/A  in  diameter,  with  long  hyaline  pedicels. 

Growing  in  damp  shaded  situations.  Ohio,  Morgan;  Nebraska, 
Webber.  Peridium  >£-.%  of  an  inch  in  diameter.  A  species  well 

612 


Lycoperdaceee 


*fnarked   by  its  peculiar  habit, 
interesting  microscopic  objects. 


The  curled  and  flexuous  threads  are  Bovista. 
Morgan. 


Sub  globose,   Mycenastrum. 


( Plate  CLXXX.) 


GENUS  XIII.— MYCENAS'TRUM  Desv. 

Mycelium  funicular,  rooting  from  the  base, 
without  a  thickened  base ;  cortex  a 
smooth  continuous  layer,  at  first 
closely  adnate  to  the  inner  peridium, 
after  maturity  gradually  breaking  up 
and  falling  away;  inner  peridium 
thick,  tough,  coriaceous,  becoming 
hard,  rigid  and  corky,  the  upper 
part  finally  breaking  up  into  irregu- 
lar lobes  or  fragments.  Capillitium 
originating  within  the  tissue  of  the 
gleba;  the  threads  free,  short,  thick, 
with  a  few  short  branches,  acutely 
pointed  and  with  scattered  prickles. 
Spores  large ,  globose ,  sessile, 
brown. 

Puff-balls  of  considerable  size, 
growing  in  the  sandy  soil  of  dry  regions.  A  very  distinct  genus,  in  no 
way  related  to  Scleroderma,  and  resembling  it  only  in  its  thick,  corky, 
inner  peridium.  The  threads  of  the  capillitium  originate  within  the 
tissue  of  the  gleba,  along  with  the  spores,  and  are  set  free  by  deli- 
quescence, the  same  as  in  Bovista.  Morgan. 

M.  spinulo'sum  Pk.  Peridium  globose,  depressed  globose,  some- 
times elongated  and  often  irregular,  with  a  thick,  cord-like  root.  Cor- 
tex at  first  a  thickish,  white,  smooth,  continuous  layer;  after  maturity 
it  cracks  or  becomes  furrowed  into  large  polygonal  areas,  and  at  length 
falls  away  in  large  flakes  or  scales ;  inner  peridium  very  thick,  at  first 
white  and  coriaceous,  becoming  hard,  dry,  brown  and  rigid,  the  upper 
part  finally  breaking  up  into  irregular  lobes  or  fragments.  Mass  of 
spores  and  capillitium  compact  then  friable,  at  first  olivaceous,  then 

613 


MYCENASTRUM  SPINULOSUM  PK. 
(After  Morgan.) 


Gastromycetes 

Mycenastrum.  dark  purplish-brown  ;  the  threads  bent,  curved  and  flexuous,  subhyaline, 
.2-. 7  mm.  in  length,  about  the  same  thickness  as  the  spores,  with  a 
few  short  branches,  and  with  scattered  prickles,  which  are  most  abun- 
dant toward  the  acute  extremities.  Spores  globose,  very  minutely 
warted,  opaque,  9-12/4  in.  diameter,  often  with  a  minute  or  slender 
hyaline  pedicel. 

Growing  on  the  sandy  soil  of  the  western  prairies.  Wisconsin,  Brown; 
Dakota,  Ellis;  Nebraska,  Webber;  Colorado,  Trelease;  Kansas,  Keller- 
man,  Cragin;  New  Mexico,  Irish. 

Peridium  2-4  in.  in  diameter.  The  plants  are  said  to  grow  together 
in  groups,  sometimes  of  many  individuals;  after  maturity  they  are 
easily  loosened  from  their  place  of  growth  and  are  then  rolled  about  by 
the  wind.  Morgan. 

No.  report  upon  edibility.     Probably  good. 


614 


Sclerodermaceee 


FAMILY  III.— SCLERODERMA'CE^. 

Peridium  discrete  from  the  gleba,  often  with  a  columella ;   cells  of  the 
gleba  subpersistent.     Morgan. 


GENUS  L— SCLERODER'MA  Pers. 

Scleros,  hard  ;    derma,  skin. 

Skin  firm  with  an  innate  bark,  bursting  irregularly;  woolly  threads 
adhering  on  all  sides  to  the  bark  and  forming  distinct  veins  in  the  cen- 
tral mass.  Base  sterile,  usually  becoming  elongated  into  a  stem-like 
structure.  Spores  large,  granulated. 

Scleroderma  vulgare  and  verrucosum  are  general  and  very  common 
over  the  United  States.  S.  bovista  and  S.  geaster  have  the  same  range 
but  are  not  so  common.  They  much  resemble  puff-balls,  but  are  more 
pudgy,  solid-looking.  All  are  edible.  Their  qualities  are  noted  under 
their  descriptions. 


S.  vulga're    Fr. — vulgaris,    common. 

sessile,  irregular;  bark  corky,  hard, 
opening  indefinitely ;  inner  mass  in 
which  the  spores  are  collected  into 
little  heaps  separated  by  a  few 
grayish  woolly  threads,  bluish-black. 
Spores  dingy;  in  the  mass  blackish 
with  purple  tinge,  globose,  warted, 
9- 1 1 /*  Mas  see. 

The  larger  form  is  generally  of  a 
yellowish  or  brownish  hue,  surface 
warty  or  covered  with  rough  scales ; 
the  smaller,  stemless  minutely  warty,  bright  brown. 

Under  trees,  etc.     Often  cespitose,  1-3  in.  across. 


(Plate  CLXXXI.) 

(  Plate  CLXXXI.) 


Sub- 


SCLERODERMA  VULGARE. 

A— B.   Firm  when  young  and  remain 

nearly  so  when  mature. 


Peridium  vari- 


Gastromycetes 

Scieroderma.  able,  white  or  pale-brown,  often  becoming  pink  when  cut.     Dehiscing 
by  decay  of  upper  portion  of  peridium.     Massee. 

Scieroderma  vulgare  is  one  of  our  most  common  and  plentiful  toad- 
stools. Its  hard,  rough,  warty,  light  brown  knobs,  single  or  clustered, 
growing  along  brook-banks  or  under  trees,  generally  choosing  hard 
ground,  are  known  to  all  who  observe  Nature's  curiosities.  When  quite 
young  they  are  white  inside.  As  they  enlarge  the  center  darkens  and 
this  purplish  color  finally  develops  into  a  grayish-purplish-black  which 
extends  throughout  the  interior  and  gives  it  a  granular  appearance. 
The  fungus  is  solid,  cutting  like  a  potato.  Its  smell  is  strong;  also  its 
taste  when  raw.  Sliced  and  well-cooked  the  species  is  good,  even  after 
it  has  become  purplish,  but  if  a  single  one  is  wilted  it  will  embitter  a 
whole  dish.  Or  if  it  is  not  very  well  stewed  or  fried  it  remains  strong. 
In  no  condition  is  it  injurious.  Specimens  must  be  pared,  and  the  base 
well  cut  away. 

S.  bovis'ta  Fr.  Subsessile,  often  irregular,  peridium  thin,  pliant, 
almost  smooth;  tramal  walls  floccose,  yellow,  mass  of  spores  olive- 
brown,  spores  globose,  warted,  10—13/4. 

Sandy  soil  under  trees,  etc.  From  1-2  in.  across.  Distinguished 
by  the  thin,  almost  smooth  peridium,  and  the  yellow  tramal  walls. 
Massee. 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.  On  ground  under  trees. 
June  to  November.  Mcllvaine. 

Not  rough  like  S.  vulgare  and  S.  verrucosum,  nor  as  solid.  Same 
habit,  same  edible  qualities  when  young.  It  is  not  good  after  it  begins 
to  change  color. 

S.  verruco'sum  Pers. — verr^tcos^^s,  covered  with  warts  (vermca). 
Peridium  thin  above,  ochraceous  or  dingy  brown,  covered  with  minute 
warts,  subglobose,  continued  downward  as  a  more  or  less  elongated 
stem-like  base.  Spores  umber  in  the  mass;  trama  whitish. 

Spores  globose,  warted,  io-13/u.. 

On  the  ground,  under  trees,  etc.  Peridium  1-3  in.  across.  Stem 
%—  2  in.  long,  thick,  flatly  pitted,  sometimes  almost  sessile,  when  it 
approaches  S.  vulgare,  but  is  distinguished  by  the  thin  peridium  and 
absence  of  purple  tinge  in  the  immature  spore  mass.  Massee. 

616 


Sclerodermaceae 

West  Virginia,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania.     June  to  October.     On  Scierodenna. 
ground  under  trees.      Same  habit  as  S.  vulgare.     Mcllvaine. 

S.  verrucosum  closely  resembles  S.  vulgare.  The  distinctions  are 
noted  in  the  description.  It  must  be  young,  fresh  and  white  inside,  or 
it  is  bitter.  It  is  not  of  as  good  quality  as  S.  vulgare. 

S.  geas'ter  Fr. — resembling  genus  Geaster  in  its  manner  of  opening. 
Subglobose,  sessile,  peridium  thick,  rigid,  almost  smooth,  splitting  in 
an  irregularly  stellate  manner  at  the  apex. 

Spores  warted,  I2-I6/A. 

Sandy  places.  Known  by  the  peridium  dehiscing  in  a  stellate  man- 
ner; from  1-2  in.  across.  Massee. 

New  Jersey,  August.     In  sandy  woods.     Mcllvaine. 

I  have  found  but  few  specimens.      Those  were  edible  and  good. 


617 


Gastromycetes 


GENUS  II.— POLYSAC'CUM  De  C. 

Polus,  many ;   saccus,  a  sack. 


(  Plate  CLXXXII.) 


Poiysaccum.  Peridium  irregularly  globose,  thick,  attenuated  downward  into  a  stem- 
like  base,  opening  by  disintegration 
of  its  upper  portion;  internal  mass 
(gleba)  divided  into  distinct  sack- 
like  cells. 

Allied  to  Scleroderma  and  distin- 
guished .by  the  cavities  of  the  gleba 
containing  distinct  peridiola.  Mas- 
see. 

P.  pisocar'pium  Fr.  Gr. — a  pea; 
Gr. — fruited.  Peridium  irregularly 
globose,  indistinctly  nodulose,  pass- 
ing downward  into  a  stout  stem-like 
base;  peridiola  irregularly  angular, 
4-5x2-3 /*,  yellow.  globose, 

warted,  coffee-color,  9-13/1  Massee. 
P.  pisocarpium  was  quite  common 
at  Mt.  Gretna,  Pa.,  from  August  to 
October,  1898,  in  open  pine  and 
mixed  woods,  growing  from  sandy 
ground.  The  height  reached  5  in. 
and  diameter  2  in.  The  shapes  were 
usually  those  of  inverted  pears,  more 
or  less  flattened  along  their  lengths. 

Skin  hard,  polished,  olivaceous-black  with  dull  yellow  mottlings,  not 
unlike  rattlesnake  skin.  When  broken  the  peridiola  (small  ovate  cylin- 
ders which  bear  the  spores  within)  are  very  distinct,  often  over  1/8  in. 
long.  The  entire  interior  is  dark  when  mature,  and  the  rupture  of  the 
plant  is  irregular  and  by  disintegration  of  the  upper  part.  They  often 
dry  without  rupturing.  Search  as  I  would,  I  could  not  find  a  young 
one,  or  one  in  edible  condition.  The  plant  is  here  given  because  in- 
teresting and  one  the  student  will  wish  to  identify.  It  is  so  odd  that 
it  is  not  surprising  to  find  it  employed  as  a  medicine  in  China. 


POLYSACCUM   PISOCARPIUM. 

Natural  size. 


618 


619 


TOADSTOOL  POISONING  AND  ITS  TREATMENT 

BY  W.  S.  CARTER,  M.  D. 

Professsor  of  Physiology  and  Hygiene,  University  of  Texas,  Galveston,  Texas. 

THE  poisonous  mushrooms v  or  so-called  toadstools,  may  be  grouped 
in  two  classes:  (i)  Those  containing  minor  or  irritant  poisons,  which 
act  locally  on  the  gastro-intestinal  tract,  such  as  the  Clitocybe  illudens, 
Lepiota  Morgani  and  others,  and  (2)  those  containing  major  poisons 
which  act  on  the  nerve  centers  after  absorption,  causing  symptoms  to 
appear  a  long  time  after  the  poison  has  been  taken  and  very  often  ter- 
minating fatally.  This  group  includes  the  Amanita  muscaria,  the 
Amanita  bulbosa  or  Am.  verna  and  the  Amanita  phalloides. 

From  the  prompt  way  in  which  vomiting  and  purging  begin  after 
eating  the  toadstools  of  the  first  group  there  seems  to  be  no  doubt  of  the 
local  irritant  action  on  the  alimentary  canal.  Grave  symptoms  from 
any  constitutional  effect  or  any  serious  disturbances  of  the  circulation  do 
not  occur.  Although  intensely  disagreeable,  such  poisoning  terminates 
in  recovery  and  may  not  be  regarded  as  dangerous  unless  the  poison  be 
taken  in  enormous  quantity  or  by  one  in  poor  health. 

In  poisoning  by  the  deadly  toxic  Amanitae  vomiting  and  purging  may 
also  occur  as  prominent  symptoms,  but  generally  only  occur  late — ten 
to  fifteen  hours  after  eating  the  toadstool — and  are  due  to  the  action  of 
the  poison  on  the  nerve  centers.  This  is  clear  from  the  fact  that  these 
symptoms  appear  when  the  poison  is  given  either  hypodermatically  or 
intravenously  to  animals. 

It  is  exceedingly  unfortunate  that  these  deadly  poisonous  toadstools 
do  not  give  some  warning  either  in  an  unpleasant  taste  or  contain  an 
irritant  which  would  act  locally  to  cause  emesis  and  purgation,  for  in 
that  case  the  patient  would  get  rid  of  the  poison  before  such  large 
quantities  were  absorbed  and  fatal  poisoning  would  be  less  frequent. 
They  are  not  at  all  unpalatable  and  sometimes  large  quantities  are  eaten 
by  mistake 

621 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

Formerly  frequent  allusion  was  made  to  the  possibility  of  poisoning 
by  decomposition  products  from  putrefactive  changes  in  mushrooms. 
Not  a  single  case  has  come  to  the  writer's  notice  where  this  form  of 
poisoning  has  actually  occurred.  In  many  reported  cases  of  poisoning 
it  is  distinctly  stated  they  were  eaten  soon  after  gathering ;  in  none  does 
the  reporter  mention  any  suspicion  of  poisoning  of  this  nature. 

At  one  time  very  many  mushrooms  were  supposed  to  be  poison- 
ous. We  now  know  that  there  are  only  a  few  dangerous  ones,  and 
where  serious  poisoning  occurs  it  seems  clearly  to  be  due  to  some  defi- 
nite and  constant  poisons  contained  in  certain  fungi.  We  shall  not  deal 
here  with  the  irritant  poisons,  as  they  are  not  dangerous  and  usually 
Nature  gets  rid  of  them  easily,  but  shall  consider  the  poisons  of  the 
Amanita  muscaria  or  "Fly  mushroom,"  the  A.  bulbosus  vernus  Bull,  or 
A.  verna,  and  the  A.  phalloides  or  "death  cup."  The  writer  has  not  had 
any  personal  experience  with  poisoning  by  these  in  man,  but  bases  his 
observations  upon  over  one  hundred  experiments  made  upon  lower  ani- 
mals.* This  is  a  distinct  advantage  in  reaching  any  conclusion,  as  the  facts 
are  definite  without  any  doubt  as  to  the  kind  or  quantity  of  the  poison 
taken.  In  many  of  the  reports  of  poisoning  by  mushrooms  in  man  no 
mention  of  the  species  is  made.  In  all  these  cases  many  kinds  have  been 
mixed  together  in  preparing  them  for  the  table  and  it  has  never  been  known 
how  many  of  the  poisonous  and  how  many  of  the  edible  ones  have  been 
eaten  by  any  one  individual  partaking  of  the  dish.  Of  course  the  fluid 
in  which  they  are  cooked  contains  some  of  the  poison.  This  explains 
why  some  patients  recover  after  having  eaten  several  mushrooms  while 
others  die  from  a  part  of  one  only.  (See  report  of  six  cases  by  Dr.  G.  E. 
Caglieri,  New  York  Med.  Record,  August  28,  1897;  a^so  Dr.  Berry's 
cases  reported  by  Prentiss,  Philadelphia  Med.  Journal,  September  24, 
1898.)  Then,  too,  different  poisonous  species  may  be  mixed  together. 
The  symptoms  produced  by  the  different  Amanitae  poisons  are  quite 
different.  Those  containing  irritant  poisons  may  be  taken  with  those 
containing  deadly  poisons.  This  accounts  for  the  great  variety  of  symp- 
toms presented  in  cases  reported. 

*A11  of  the  toadstools  used  have  been  very  kindly  furnished  and  identified  by  Capt. 
Chas.  Mcllvaine.  Unfortunately  only  fifteen  experiments  could  be  made  with  the  fresh 
funpi  while  the  writer  was  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Since  leaving  there  it 
has  been  impossible  to  get  any  in  a  fresh  state,  and  the  other  experiments  have  been 
made  either  with  dried  fungi  or  alcoholic  or  glycerine  extracts  of  the  fresh. 

622 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

POISONING   BY   AMANITA   MUSCARIA. 

The  symptoms  of  poisoning  by  this  fungus  usually  appear  from  eight 
to  twelve  hours  after  it  has  been  eaten,  unless  it  has  been  taken  in 
enormous  quantities,  as  in  the  cases  reported  by  Prentiss  (Phila.  Med. 
Jour.,  September  24,  1898),  where  they  came  on  in  half  an  hour. 

These  begin  with  cramp-like  pains  in  the  extremities,  colicky  pains 
in  the  abdomen,  burning  thirst,  vomiting  and  purging.  The  pulse  may 
be  very  slow  and  strong  at  first,  but  later  becomes  rapid,  small  and  fee- 
ble. The  blood  pressure  is  low  and,  as  a  result  of  this  disturbance  of 
the  circulation,  faintness  is  a  common  early  symptom.  Extreme  pallor 
is  often  noticed.  The  secretions  are  increased,  and  the  sweat  and  the 
saliva  may  be  secreted  in  abnormal  quantities. 

The  pupils  are  strongly  contracted  and  dullness  of  the  vision  or 
double  vision  may  be  noticed  early. 

The  respirations  are  slow  and  become  shallow  and  stertorous  when 
the  poisoning  is  severe. 

The  mental  state  may  be  clear  at  first,  but  becomes  dull,  deepening 
into  unconsciousness  and  deep  coma  if  a  large  quantity  has  been  taken. 

Convulsions  are  reported  to  have  occurred  in  some  cases  from  poison- 
ing by  this  toadstool  in  man.  The  dried  Amanita  muscaria  or  extracts 
of  the  fresh  fail  to  produce  convulsions  in  the  lower  animals,  even  in 
frogs,  which  are  very  susceptible.  Either  there  is  a  considerable  dif- 
ference in  the  susceptibility  to  this  poison  or  there  is  some  poison  pres- 
ent in  the  fresh  fungus  which  is  lost  by  drying. 

Small  amounts  of  the  dried  Amanita  muscaria  are  said  to  be  used  by 
inhabitants  of  northern  Asia  for  the  stimulating  effect  upon  the  nervous 
system,  producing,  like  other  narcotic  poisons,  a  dreamy  state  of  intoxi- 
cation, deepening  into  sleep  (Von  Boeck  in  Ziemssen's  Cyclopedia  of 
Medicine,  Vol.  VII). 

In  animals  the  most  striking  effect  is  upon  the  circulation.  When  in- 
jected intravenously  it  causes  tremendous  inhibition  of  the  heart's  action 
— a  moderate  amount  causing  the  heart  to  beat  slowly  and  powerfully ; 
a  large  amount  causing  complete  arrest.  Even  with  the  partial  inhibi- 
tion there  is  an  enormous  fall  of  pressure.  The  slowing  of  the  heart 
soon  passes  off,  and  when  a  moderate  amount  has  been  injected,  the  cir- 
culation quickly  returns  to  normal. 

623 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

In  one  of  my  experiments  on  a  dog,  the  heart  stopped  for  i%  min- 
utes and  then  began  beating  again,  the  circulation  soon  recovering. 

Late  in  the  poisoning  the  heart  beats  may  be  rapid  and  feeble  and  the 
blood  pressure  low.  The  lowered  blood  pressure  is  largely  due  to 
dilatation  of  the  small  blood  vessels  resulting  from  a  loss  of  control  over 
them  by  the  nerve  center  which  normally  keeps  the  arterioles  in  a  state 
of  partial  contraction. 

The  inhibition  of  the  heart  is  due  to  the  action  of  the  well-known 
alkaloid  muscarine  upon  nerve  ganglia  in  the  heart.  The  contraction 
of  the  pupil  and  the  increased  secretory  activity  of  the  glands  are  also 
due  to  this  substance  which  was  discovered  by  Schmideberg  and  Koppe 
in  1869. 

It  was  soon  found  that  although  dogs  recovered  from  the  immediate 
or  early  effects  (i.  e.,  from  the  muscarine)  of  enormous  quantities  of  toad- 
stools, they  succumbed  from  the  late  effects  of  much  smaller  quantities. 
Atropine  fails  to  avert  this  result  from  the  late  effect,  whether  given  be- 
fore the  poison,  with  it,  or  after  it.  The  inhibition  of  the  heart  passes 
off  long  before  death  occurs.  Late  death  does  not  appear  to  be  due  to 
muscarine. 

*A11  these  facts  put  together  point  to  the  existence  of  some  other 
poison  or  poisons  in  the  Amanita  muscaria  to  which  atropine  is  not  an 
antidote. 

This  peculiar  poisoning  causing  death  so  late  will  be  discussed  again 
after  considering  the  other  poisonous  mushrooms  as  they  act  similarly. 

Gastro-intestinal  symptoms  were  not  as  common  in  my  experiments 
with  Amanita  muscaria  as  with  the  Amanita  phalloides.  Vomiting  and 
purging  occasionally  occurred  early,  but  much  more  frequently  late  in 
the  poisoning  and  often  not  at  all. 

Convulsions  did  not  occur  in  any  of  the  animals  poisoned  by  this 
fungus.  Convulsions  are  recorded  in  some  cases  of  poisoning  in  man, 
but  not  so  constantly  as  with  the  A.  phalloides  and  A.  verna.  Where 
they  occurred  either  a  large  amount  had  been  taken  (as  in  Prentiss' 
case)  or  there  is  some  doubt  about  the  Amanita  muscaria  having  been 
the  only  toadstool  eaten  (as  in  Caglieri's  cases).  Frogs  are  very  easily 
thrown  into  spasms,  but  no  spasms  were  observed,  even  in  fatal  poison- 
ing of  them  by  this  toadstool. 

Regarding  cerebral  symptoms,  little  can  be  said  except  that  uncon- 
sciousness and  coma  may  come  on  early  and  persist  till  death.  In  cases 

624 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

terminating  fatally  the  animal  seemed  to  be  conscious,  but  so  depressed 
that  it  was  unable  to  stand'  or  even  move  when  called. 

Concerning  differences  in  the  susceptibility  of  different  animals  to  the 
poisons  of  Amanita  muscaria,  cats  seemed  to  be  more  susceptible  than 
dogs  in  the  earlier  experiments  with  extracts  of  the  fresh  fungus,  but 
more  numerous  experiments  with  the  dried  fungus  failed  to  show  any 
greater  difference  than  can  be  observed  between  different  animals  of  the 
same  kind. 

As  to  the  nature  of  the  poisons  very  little  can  be  stated  from  the  ex- 
periments, as  they  were  undertaken  as  a  preliminary  step  to  chemical 
studies  to  be  carried  on  later.  The  alkaloid  muscarine  is  one  of  our 
best  known  poisons  and  nothing  can  be  added  to  what  is  already  known 
about  it.  The  poisons  are  extracted  by  distilled  water  as  well  as  by  a 
solution  of  sodium  chloride;  they  are  soluble  in  glycerine  and  in  alcohol 
and  very  little  difference  can  be  seen  in  the  action  of  these  extracts,  un- 
less the  alcoholic  extract  contains  more  of  the  muscarine,  while  the 
glycerine  extract  contains  more  of  the  other  poisons. 

It  is  stated  that  muscarine  is  not  poisonous  to  flies ;  that  the  Amanita 
muscaria  contains  a  volatile  poison  which  is  poisonous  to  flies  (hence 
the  name  "Fly  mushroom"  ),  and  which  is  lost  by  drying;  that  inhabit- 
ants of  northern  Asia  use  the  dried  fungus  (after  the  volatile  poison  has 
been  lost)  for  producing  intoxication  (Von  Boeck  in  Ziemssen's  Cyclo- 
pedia, Vol.  VII,  p.  927).  My  experiments  have  been  entirely  with 
mammals  and  frogs,  and  unfortunately  those  performed  with  the  fresh 
toadstools  were  not  numerous  enough  to  enable  me  to  draw  positive 
conclusions  as  to  any  loss  of  toxicity  by  drying.  A  single  experiment 
with  a  cat  seemed  to  indicate  that  boiling  of  the  fungus  lessened  the 
toxicity  but  subsequent  experiments  indicated  that  a  boiled  solution  was 
no  less  toxic  than  one  not  boiled. 

One  thing  we  can  state  definitely;  that  boiling  the  dried  A.  muscaria 
abes  not  destroy  its  toxicity.  This  indicates  that  the  poison  is  not  of 
an  albuminous  nature,  which  would  be  coagulated  by  heat. 

Whether  or  not  any  volatile  poison  is  lost  by  boiling  a  solution  of  the 
fresh  fungus  or  by  drying  at  40°  C.  can  not  be  stated  definitely  as  the 
experiments  made  with  the  fresh  fungus  were  few  in  number  on  account 
of  the  extreme  difficulty  in  getting  them  perfectly  fresh. 

The  average  of  six  observations  in  which  it  was  possible  to  weigh 
the  toadstools  before  and  after  drying  at  40°  C.  showed  a  loss  of  84.4 
40  625 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

per  cent,  of  water.  In  other  words,  i  gram  of  the  dried  equals  6.4 
grams  of  the  fresh. 

Comparing  the  lethal  doses  of  the  dried  with  the  lethal  doses  of  the 
fresh  extracted  by  glycerine  and  alcohol,  it  does  not  appear  that  there 
is  any  great  loss  of  the  toxicity  by  drying  as  is  shown  by  the  following : 
Lethal  dose  of  dried  in  Experiment  31  was  .085  gram,  per  kilo  of  body 
weight;  in  Experiment  55,  .033  gram,  per  kilo  caused  early  death, 
while  .223  gram,  of  dried  per  kilo  and  .120  gram,  per  kilo  caused 
death  from  late  effects  (Exps.  32  and  57).  The  lethal  doses  of  the  fresh 
were  .91  gram,  per  kilo  (Exp.  29)  and  1.055  gram,  per  kilo  (Exp. 
36)  when  a  glycerine  extract  of  the  fresh  growth  was  used,  while  1.222 
gram,  per  kilo  (Exp.  16)  made  from  an  alcoholic  extract  failed  to  kill. 

It  may  be  well  to  introduce  here  the  results  of  an  experiment  which 
shows  there  is  no  highly  poisonous  volatile  material  given  off  from  the 
A.  phalloides.  This  is  rather  an  important  fact  to  determine,  as  the 
opinion  is  held  by  some  that  there  is  a  volatile  poison,  and  most  of  my 
experiments  were  made  with  the  dried  fungus.  A  I  per  cent,  solution 
of  fresh  A.  phalloides  was  distilled  until  three-fourths  of  the  fluid  had 
passed  over  as  distillate.  The  latter  was  injected  into  the  vein  of  a  dog 
and  found  not  at  all  toxic.  The  opportunity  has  not  been  afforded  me 
of  repeating  this  experiment  personally,  but  Dr.  J.  P.  Arnold  has  kindly 
repeated  it  for  me,  injecting  the  distillate  into  rabbits  and  frogs  and  failed 
to  find  it  toxic.  Certainly  if  there  is  any  volatile  poison  in  the  A.  phal- 
loides it  must  be  either  in  very  minute  quantity  or  very  slightly  toxic. 

ANTIDOTAL  VALUE  OF  ATROPINE. 

In  arriving  at  any  conclusion  we  must  bear  in  mind  the  variation  of 
different  animals  in  their  susceptibility  to  poisons.  Thus,  to  give  the 
greatest  difference  observed,  .085  gram,  dried  Amanita  muscaria 
per  kilo  of  body  weight  killed  one  dog  in  an  hour,  while  in  another 
dog  .223  grams,  of  the  same  preparation  per  kilo  only  killed  after  24 
hours,  the  cardiac  inhibition  having  disappeared  one-half  hour  after  the 
poison  was  injected.  However,  an  average  of  six  (6)  experiments  on 
cats  and  dogs  with  dried  A.  muscaria  in  which  no  antidote  was  given 
shows  the  lethal  dose  to  be  .103  gram,  per  kilo  of  body  weight.  The 
average  of  four  (4)  experiments,  in  which  the  fungus,  dried  in  the  same 
way,  was  used  but  atropine  was  given  as  an  antidote,  gives  the  lethal 
dose  of  .335  gram,  per  kilo  and  death  only  occurred  late  in  each  case. 

626 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

There  can  be  no  doubt,  therefore,  of  the  antidotal  value  of  atropine  for 
poisoning  by  Amanita  muscaria. 

It  should  be  borne  in  mind,  however,  that  it  is  not  an  infallible  anti- 
dote even  when  given  early,  and  that  it  does  not  prevent  death  from  the 
late  effects  in  severe  cases,  although  given  in  large  doses.  In  some  ex- 
periments atropine  was  administered  at  the  same  time  the  poison  was 
given  and  in  others  before  it.  t 

The  important  practical  lesson  is  that  too  much  reliance  should  not 
be  placed  upon  atropine.  It  will  be  shown  later  that  it  has  little  value 
as  an  antidote  to  A.  verna  and  A.  phalloides.  Probably  these  fungi 
contain  less  muscarine  than  A.  muscaria.  Although  there  is  no  drug 
so  antagonistic  in  its  physiological  action  to  the  poison  of  the  A.  mus- 
caria as  atropine,  the  use  of  other  remedies  should  not  be  neglected. 
The  symptoms  have  to  be  treated  as  they  arise.  Strychnia,  alcohol  in 
moderate  amounts  and  suprarenal  extract  could  all  be  used  to  ad- 
vantage in  restoring  the  circulation,  especially  late  in  the  poisoning. 
Atropine  merely  removes  the  inhibition  of  the  heart  which  occurs  as  an 
early  symptom. 

External  heat  should  be  applied  if  the  body  temperature  is  sub- 
normal. The  treatment  of  gastro-intestinal  symptoms  will  depend  upon 
the  conditions  of  each  individual  case.  The  injection  of  a  large  amount 
of  warm  physiological  salt  solution  (.6— .7  per  cent,  sodium  chloride) 
into  the  subcutaneous  tissues  should  also  be  tried  in  severe  cases  seen 
late  in  the  poisoning. 

POISONING  BY  AMANITA  VERNA  OR  A.  BULBOSUS  VERNA  BULL. 

The  symptoms  appear  from  six  to  fifteen  hours  after  the  ingestion  of 
the  poison  and  may  be  largely  choleraic  in  nature,  i.  e.t  vomiting  and 
purging,  the  discharges  from  the  bowel  being  watery  with  small  flakes 
suspended  and  sometimes  containing  blood. 

The  disturbance  of  the  circulation  is  somewhat  similar  to  that  caused 
by  A.  muscaria,  viz.,  slow,  strong  pulse  early,  but  rapid  and  weak  later. 
Dizziness  and  faintness  may  be  early  symptoms.  Sometimes  the  skin 
is  pale  and  covered  with  cold,  clammy  sweat;  at  others  there  is  great 
cyanosis.  The  body  temperature  is  subnormal,  unless  nervous  symp- 
toms are  very  severe.  Very  prominent  among  the  symptoms  are  tetanic 
convulsions,  which  may  appear  comparatively  early  and  persist  until 
the  end. 

627 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

In  animals  the  effect  of  this  toadstool  is  entirely  different  from  that  of 
A.  muscaria.  Perhaps  the  most  striking  difference  is  the  frequency 
with  which  convulsions  appear.  Convulsions  occurred  repeatedly  in 
mammals  and  in  nearly  every  frog  to  which  the  toadstool  was  given. 
This  fungus  seems  to  contain  some  poison  that  acts  upon  the  spinal  cord 
very  much  as  strychnia  does,  though  less  powerfully,  of  course. 

The  circulatory  conditions  are  also  different.  The  inhibition  of  the 
heart  may  be  pronounced  as  an  early  condition,  but  the  pressure  does 
not  return  to  the  normal  after  this  disappears,  either  from  giving 
atropine  or  from  cutting  the  pneumogastric  nerves.  Section  of  these 
nerves  removes  the  cardiac  inhibition  much  more  completely  than  after 
poisoning  by  the  A.  muscaria.  There  is  often  a  fall  of  pressure  without 
cardiac  inhibition.  In  other  words,  there  is  a  much  greater  permanent 
fall  of  blood-pressure  due  to  paralysis  of  the  nerve  center  controlling 
the  blood  vessels  (vaso-motor  center).  This  condition  will  last  a  long 
time  and  does  not  show  the  same  tendency  to  disappear  as  after  A. 
muscaria.  Moreover  it  is  produced  by  comparatively  small  amounts 
of  the  A.  verna. 

The  respirations  are  very  slow.  The  blood  is  poorly  oxygenated  and 
this  probably  causes  the  cyanosis  sometimes  observed  in  men  poisoned 
by  this  fungus. 

Bloody  fluid  is  sometimes  vomited  or  comes  from  the  nose.  It  may 
also  occur  in  the  discharge  from  the  bowel. 

Retching  and  purging  occurred  more  frequently  as  early  symptoms 
than  in  animals  poisoned  by  A.  muscaria. 

Coma  appeared  early  and  continued  until  death.  The  administration 
of  atropine  soon  after  giving  the  poison  when  cardiac  inhibition  was 
present,  caused  a  slight  temporary  rise  of  blood  pressure  but  did  not 
affect  the  dilated  condition  of  the  blood  vessels.  The  pressure  con- 
tinued low  notwithstanding  the  atropine.  Although  the  experiments 
with  this  fungus  were  not  as  numerous  as  with  the  A.  muscaria  because 
of  difficulty  in  obtaining  it,  yet  it  seems  clear  that  atropine  is  of  very 
little  value  as  an  antidote.  Death  very  rarely  resulted  from  the  cardiac 
inhibition  occurring  early  but  usually  came  on  late  after  that  condition 
had  disappeared.  The  lethal  dose  was  no  larger  when  atropine  was 
given  than  when  no  antidote  was  used. 

Amanita  verna  is  very  much  more  toxic  than  A.  muscaria,  the  average 
of  four  experiments  in  which  the  former  was  given  without  an  antidote 

628 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and.  its  Treatment 

being   .034  gram,  (dried)  per  kilo  of  body  weight,  while  .103  gram, 
(dried)  per  kilo,  was  the  average  for  the  latter  fungus. 

POISONING   BY   AM  ANITA   PHALLOIDES. 

The  symptoms  described  in  man  are  very  similar  to  those  caused  by 
the  A.  verna,  except  that  the  convulsions  are  less  constant  and  cyanosis 
is  not  mentioned.  In  some  cases  vomiting  and  purging  are  prominent 
symptoms.  There  is  dizziness  and  fainting,  extreme  ashy  pallor,  cold 
skin  covered  with  sweat,  subnormal  temperature,  muscular  twitchings 
and  occasional  convulsions  and  somnolence  which  deepens  into  coma 
and  lasts  until  death,  which  usually  occurs  two  or  three  days  after  eating 
the  poison.  Sometimes  the  gastro-intestinal  symptoms  are  less  severe 
or  may  be  absent,  though  they  are  usually  present;  in  that  case  the 
nervous  symptoms  are  more  prominent,  particularly  the  convulsions  and 
circulatory  disturbance. 

In  experiments  upon  animals  the  convulsions  were  not  observed  so 
constantly  as  with  the  A.  verna.  Out  of  twenty-five  dogs  poisoned  by  the 
Amanita  phalloides,  convulsions  only  occurred  twice,  while  twelve  frogs 
injected  with  different  preparations  (dried  toadstool  and  glycerine  and 
alcoholic  extracts  of  the  fresh)  failed  to  show  a  convulsive  seizure  in  a 
single  instance.  It  seems  to  be  difficult  for  mycologists  to  draw  a  sharp 
line  between  the  A.  verna  and  the  A.  phalloides  and  say  to  which  of 
these  two  certain  fungi  belong.  This  may  explain  why  convulsions  are 
recorded  more  frequently  in  persons  poisoned  by  this  toadstool  than  in 
animals  poisoned  by  it.  Frogs  are  very  susceptible  to  poisons  acting 
upon  the  spinal  cord,  and  all  of  those  poisoned  by  lethal  doses  of  A. 
verna  had  convulsions,  while  none  of  those  poisoned  by  the  A.  phal- 
loides had  any.  It  would  therefore  appear  from  this  striking  difference 
in  the  physiological  actions  that  the  two  are  separate  and  distinct. 

The  circulatory  and  gastro-intestinal  symptoms  were  quite  similar  to 
those  caused  by  the  A.  verna. 

A.  phalloides  is  less  toxic  than  the  A.  verna,  but  more  so  than  the 
A.  muscaria,  the  average  lethal  dose  of  the  dried  fungus  (eight  experi- 
ments) for  dogs,  where  no  antidote  was  used,  being  .117  gram,  per 
kilo. 

The  antidotal  value  of  atropine  is  very  slight,  if  indeed  it  has  any 
action  other  than  removing  the  temporary  cardiac  inhibition.  The  ani- 
mals very  seldom  died  from  this,  but  mostly  from  the  late  effects  after 

629 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

the  inhibition  had  disappeared.  In  four  experiments  on  dogs  in  which 
atropine  was  given  either  at  the  same  time  as  the  poison  or  before  it, 
the  average  lethal  dose  was  .198  gram,  of  the  dried  fungus  per  kilo. 
Two  dogs  were  killed  by  .1  gram,  per  kilo  without  atropine;  another 
was  given  the  same  amount  and  was  given  atropine  hypodermatically  a 
number  of  times  and  recovered,  though  very  ill  for  two  days. 

Transfusion  of  physiological  salt  solution  (.6  per  cent,  table  salt) 
was  practiced  in  three  dogs.  Although  death  occurred  in  all  of  these 
and  the  lethal  dose  was  not  unusually  high,  the  pressure  was  restored 
for  a  time  at  least.  It  should  be  employed  in  treating  poisoning  in  man, 
and  not  be  depended  upon  as  the  only  procedure,  but  used  in  conjunc- 
tion with  other  remedies.  This  will  be  referred  to  again  in  describing 
treatment. 

It  will  be  seen  from  the  above  that  poisoning  by  the  A.  verna  and 
A.  phalloides  present  symptoms  in  the  lower  animals  which  are  quite 
different  from  those  caused  by  the  A.  muscaria,  and  that  in  either  case 
poisoning  is  far  more  serious  than  by  the  latter  fungus.  This  is  not  only 
because  they  are  so  much  more  toxic,  but  also  because  there  is  no  de- 
cidedly antagonistic  action  by  atropine,  and  hence  its  value  as  an  anti- 
dote is  much  less. 

In  treating  a  case  of  poisoning  by  either  A.  verna  or  A.  phalloides  the 
only  thing  that  can  be  done  is  to  meet  the  indications  in  the  individual 
case.  If  the  heart  is  beating  slowly,  atropine  should  be  given  in  liberal 
doses.  This  will  not  overcome  the  chief  disturbance  of  the  circulation, 
viz.,  the  tremendous  dilation  of  the  blood  vessels.  Strychnia  will  do 
this  to  a  certain  extent,  but  its  use  may  be  contra-indicated  by  twitch- 
ings  or  convulsions  from  the  toadstools.  If  it  can  be  used  it  is  exceed- 
ingly valuable,  as  it  stimulates  not  only  the  vaso-motor  center^  but  the 
respiration  and  heart  as  well .  Caffein  or  strong  coffee  may  also  be  used 
to  this  end  if  the  stomach  will  retain  it.  Suprarenal  extract  should 
also  be  given  hypodermatically,  as  it  will  restore  the  blood  pressure  more 
nearly  to  normal  than  any  other  drug,  according  to  our  experiments. 
It  has  the  advantage  of  not  increasing  the  excitability  of  the  spinal  cord 
as  strychnia  does,  and  hence  would  not  be  contra-indicated  by  nervous 
symptoms. 

Perhaps  the  most  rational  treatment  to  meet  the  most  serious  condi- 
tion of  the  poisoning  by  these  toadstools  is  the  transfusion  of  normal 
saline  solution  (.6-. 7  per  cent,  solution  of  table  salt)  into  the  subcu- 

630 


•-toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

taneous  tissues.  This  should,  of  course,  only  be  given  by  a  physician, 
as  great  care  is  required  in  sterilizing  the  syringe.  It  can  be  given  with 
a  fountain  syringe  and  aspirating  needle  beneath  the  skin  of  the  thigh. 
Large  quantities  should  be  used — at  least  a  quart  (  1000  cc. )  or  more. 
The  fluid  is  rapidly  absorbed  by  the  lymphatics  and  gets  into  the  blood 
vessels.  It  restores  the  blood  pressure  by  increasing  the  fluid  in  the 
vessels  and  also  doubtless  aids  the  organs  of  excretion  in  eliminating  the 
poison ;  at  the  same  time  it  would  relieve  the  intense  thirst  patients 
complain  of.  Clinicians  who  have  observed  cases  of  poisoning  by  the 
A.  phalloides  in  man  have  suggested  this  procedure  as  the  most  rational 
one  to  meet  the  symptoms  presented.  From  the  condition  produced 
in  animals  poisoned  by  this  toadstool  the  writer  was  led  to  the  same 
conclusion.  In  two  experiments  upon  dogs,  when  transfusion  of  warm 
physiological  salt  solution  was  made  directly  into  the  vein  after  poison- 
ing by  the  A.  phalloides,  death  occurred  in  both  cases  and  the  lethal 
dose  was  not  unusually  large,  although  the  amount  transferred  was  equal 
to  the  estimated  volume  of  the  blood  of  the  animal  in  one  case  and  half 
that  amount  in  another.  In  another  animal  atropine  was  given  before 
the  poison  and  the  pressure  had  been  reduced  by  the  latter  to  one-fifth 
of  the  normal,  the  transfusion  of  an  amount  of  normal  salt  solution 
equivalent  to  two-thirds  of  the  bulk  of  blood  restored  the  pressure  to 
three-fourths  of  normal  in  about  15  minutes,  but  further  injection  of  the 
poison  caused  late  death. 

Although  the  rise  of  pressure  is  not  so  great  from  transfusion  as  from 
suprarenal  extract  in  large  doses,  it  is  more  permanent.  Transfusion 
(or  transfusion  into  the  subcutaneous  tissues  by  hypodermoclysis  which 
amounts  to  the  same  thing)  has  the  additional  advantage  of  increasing 
the  flow  of  urine,  which  is  often  suppressed  in  these  cases.  Even  if  it 
does  no  good  it  can  do  no  harm  if  done  antiseptically  and  should  be 
tried  but  always  in  conjunction  with  other  remedies. 

A  remarkable  case  of  recovery  after  the  injection  of  a  large  amount 
of  normal  saline  solution  has  been  reported  by  Delobel  (Presse  medicale 
September  30,  1899).  A  man  aged  fifty-two  ate  some  A.  phalloides; 
he  was  seen  four  hours  afterward.  The  skin  was  covered  with  cold, 
clammy  sweat ;  body  temperature  was  sub-normal ;  shivering  and 
tremors  present;  had  not  vomited«or  purged  ;  urine  suppressed;  respira- 
tion stertorous;  pulse  28  per  minute  and  so  feeble  that  it  was  almost 
imperceptible.  Two  full  doses  of  atropine  were  given  hypodermatically 

631 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

as  well  as  10  cc.  of  ether  and  200  cc.  of  strong  coffee  with  20  cc.  of 
rum  were  given  by  the  mouth  and  hot  bottles  applied  externally.  In 
spite  of  all  this  the  symptoms  became  worse  and  the  patient  sank  into  a 
condition  of  profound  collapse,  the  pulse  dropping  to  24  per  minute 
and  the  tremors  ceased.  One  liter  ( i  quart)  of  normal  saline  solution 
was  injected  hypodermatically  and  improvement  began  in  15  minutes 
after  the  injection.  The  respiration  lost  the  Cheyne-Stokes  character; 
the  pulse  improved  in  tension  and  in  an  hour  was  60  per  minute ;  the 
skin  improved  and  the  temperature  returned  to  normal  and  the  patient 
went  to  work  next  day. 

The  circulatory  symptoms  are  most  prominent  and  demand  most 
attention.  Vomiting  and  purging  have  to  be  treated  according  to  the 
conditions  in  the  individual  case  and  no  rule  can  be  followed.  As  the 
peripheral  vessels  are  dilated  the  body  temperature  is  usually  subnormal. 
This  should  be  overcome  by  applying  hot  bottles  externally. 

The  suppression  of  urine  should  receive  attention,  and  the  activity  of 
the  kidneys  be  stimulated  as  much  as  possible.  It  is  probable  the  sup- 
pression is  largely  due  to  the  tremendous  fall  of  blood  pressure.  If  the 
urine  is  secreted  but  retained  in  the  bladder  it  should  be  drawn  off. 

Just  as  there  is  no  simple  way  of  detecting  the  presence  of  poisonous 
mushrooms  in  a  mixture  of  mushrooms,  so  there  is  no  simple  way  of 
destroying  or  removing  the  poisons.  Pouchet  stated  that  boiling  de- 
stroyed the  poison  and  Chestnut  has  stated  the  poison  of  A.  phalloides 
is  a  toxic  albumen.  If  this  were  the  case  boiling  would  destroy  it.  In 
our  experiments,  however,  boiling  has  not  diminished  the  toxicity  at 
all  and  it  can  be  definitely  stated  that  the  poison  is  not  an  albumen. 

There  is  also  a  popular  impression  that  vinegar  will  remove  the  poison 
and  numerous  observers  claim  to  have  removed  the  poison  of  A.  mus- 
caria  completely  by  soaking  the  fungus  in  vinegar.  We  have  not  had 
the  opportunity  of  trying  this  with  fresh  A.  muscaria,  but  in  one  experi- 
ment in  which  the  A.  verna  was  soaked  over  night  in  vinegar  it  failed 
to  get  rid  of  the  poison — any  more  than  would  have  dissolved  in  that 
amount  of  water. 

Toadstool  poisoning  differs  from  most  poisonings  in  the  long  time 
elapsing  before  death  in  fatal  cases.  The  only  inorganic  poisons  caus- 
ing death  after  such  a  long  interval  produce  profound  tissue  changes. 
Husemann  believed  death  from  poisonous  mushrooms  to  be  due  to  fatty 
degeneration  of  the  various  organs.  We  have  examined  microscopically 

632 


Toadstool  Poisoning  and  its  Treatment 

the  tissue  of  dogs  and  cats  dying  from  the  late  effects  of  the  A.  mus- 
caria  and  A.  phalloides  and  found  them  to  be  perfectly  normal. 

Mr.  V.  K.  Chestnut,  in  a  bulletin  published  by  the  United  States 
Department  of  Agriculture  (Circular  No.  13,  p.  23),  states  that  death 
from  the  A.  phalloides  is  due  to  a  destruction  of  the  red-blood  corpus- 
cles. Upon  what  authority  this  assertion  is  made  is  not  stated.  The 
conclusion  has  probably  been  based  upon  the  venosity  of  the  blood  in 
cases  of  poisoning  resulting  from  the  disturbance  of  the  respiration  and 
circulation.  The  blood  corpuscles  of  animals  poisoned  by  all  three  of 
the  Amanitae  studied  have  been  counted  repeatedly  in  our  experiments 
and  in  none  of  them  has  there  been  any  appreciable  reduction. 

It  can  be  positively  stated  that  death  is  not  due  to  a  destruction  ol 
the  red  blood  cells. 

Further,  the  coloring  matter  of  the  blood  (haemoglobin),  which  car- 
ries oxygen  to  the  tissues,  has  been  examined  with  the  spectroscope  to 
see  if  any  new  compound  had  been  formed  which  would  prevent  it  from 
carrying  oxygen.  No  such  compound  has  been  found — no  alteration 
could  be  detected  in  the  haemoglobin.  It  is  quite  evident  that  these 
toadstools  do  not  kill  by  their  action  on  the  blood,  for  in  a  number  of 
experiments  the  blood  was  examined  a  very  short  time  before  death. 

Thinking  that  they  might  act  upon  the  nerve  cells  of  the  brain  and 
spinal  cord  very  much  as  certain  toxins  of  infectious  diseases  do,  those 
structures  were  examined  by  special  staining  methods  (silver  impregna- 
tion), but  no  greater  variation  than  is  normal  could  be  detected  in  any 
of  those  examined. 

No  statement  can  be  made  as  to  the  cause  of  this  late  death,  but  it 
would  appear  to  be  due  to  some  disturbance  of  nutrition. 

Late  death  occurs  not  only  in  animals,  but  in  most  of  the  cases  of 
poisoning  in  man  recorded  in  medical  literature. 

The  contrast  between  the  early  and  late  symptoms  is  not  so  great  in 
poisoning  by  A.  phalloides  and  A.  verna  as  in  the  case  of  poisoning  by 
A.  muscaria.  In  the  first  two  the  serious  symptoms  appear  early  and 
continue  till  the  end ;  in  the  last  the  early  effects  of  the  muscarine  soon 
passes  off  or  can  be  removed  by  atropine,  but  the  late  symptoms,  strik- 
ingly in  contrast  with  the  early  ones,  still  appear, and  continue  till  death. 


633 


634 


RECIPES 

FOR 

COOKING  AND  PREPARING  FOR  THE  TABLE 

PREPARING  toadstools  for  the  table  should  begin  while  collecting  them. 
Have  a  soft  brush,  a  knife,  half  a  dozen  one  or  two-pound  paper  bags 
and  an  open-topped,  roomy,  shallow  basket.  As  edible  species  are 
Collecting".  found,  cut  them  loose  well  above  their  attachment.  Keep 
Cleansing-.  the  spore  surface  down  until  the  top  is  brushed  clean  and 
every  particle  of  dirt  removed  from  the  stem.  This  prevents  dirt  from 
getting  upon  the  spore  surface,  from  which  it  is  very  hard  to  dislodge. 
Never  clean  a  toadstool  over  other  toadstools.  If  the  stem  is  hard, 
tough  or  wormy,  remove  it. 

Having  cleaned  the  plant,  place  it  in  one  of  the  paper  bags,  spore 
surface  down.  Write  its  name  on  the  bag.  Place  but  one  kind  in  the 
same  bag,  unless  species  of  about  the  same  texture  and  flavor  are  found 
and  mixing  is  not  objectionable.  Where  another  species  is  found,  give 
it  a  bag  to  itself. 

Select  fresh,  inviting  plants  only.      Do  all  possible  cleaning  in  the 

field.     Plants  keep  clean,  pack  better,  and  more  of  them 
Selection.  .    ,         « 

can  be  carried.       A  careless    jumble  is    gritty,    bruised 

and  disappointing. 

If  not  ready  to  cook  the  find,  place  the  bags  in  the  ice  chest.  It  is 
best  to  cook  fungi  as  soon  as  possible.  Cooked,  they  can  be  kept  much 
longer  than  when  uncooked. 

When  ready  to  cook,  wash  the  plants  by  throwing  them  into  a  deep 
pan  of  water.  Pass  the  fingers  quietly  through  them 

W  ii  s  Ii  i  n  t*\  I*-  i 

upward;  let  stand  a  moment  for  the  dirt  to  settle,  then 
gather  them  from  the  water  with  the  fingers  as  a  drain.  Remove  any 
scurf  or  adhering  dirt  with  a  coarse  flannel  or  a  cloth.  Wash  in  this  way 
through  two  or  three  waters.  Lay  to  drain.  By  experience  in  drain- 
ing, exactly  the  amount  of  water  necessary  to  cook  a  particular  species 

635 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Tattle 

can  be  allowed  to  remain  within  its  spore  surface,  if  it  is  a  gilled  species. 
To  other  kinds,  water  must  usually  be  added. 

The  removal  of  the  skin  of  any  toadstool  is  seldom  justifiable.  As 
with  the  apple  and  most  fruits,  the  largest  amount  of  flavor  is  in  the 
skin. 

By  the  consistency  of  the  species  in  hand,  decide  upon  the  best 
method  of  cooking  it  and  the  time  and  medium  required.  If  it  is  thin, 
juicy,  tender,  from  five  to  ten  minutes'  slow  stewing  will  be  ample;  if 
it  is  thick,  dry,  tough,  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes  will  be  required. 
After  any  species  is  cooked  tender,  it  may  be  seasoned  to  one's  liking 
and  served  as  one  chooses. 

Many  species,  which  absolutely  refuse  to  become  tender  after  prolonged 
stewing,  quickly  succumb  in  the  frying  pan  and  make  crisp,  delicate 
morsels.  Edible  kinds  which  dry  well,  or  are  hard  when  found,  often 
grate  or  powder  easily,  and  are  excellent  (after  soaking)  made  into 
soups,  fritters  or  pates. 

Hundreds  upon  hundreds  of  recipes  for  cooking  the  common  mush- 
room and  the  few  other  fungi  heretofore  eaten,  are  at  hand.  The 
simpler  methods — those  which  retain  the  natural  flavor  of  the  species 
cooked — are  the  best. 

When  a  species  has  good  body,  and  but  little  flavor,  it  may  be  made 
delicious  by  cooking  with  it  another  species  of  higher  flavor. 

The  most  concise  instruction  is :  Cook  in  any  way  you  can  cook  an 
oyster. 

The  writer's  best  and  long- tried  recipes  are  here  given.  Mrs.  Sarah 
Tyson  Rorer  has  kindly  contributed  some  of  her  own  choice  methods ; 
Mrs.  Emma  P.  Ewing,  of  culinary  celebrity,  is  represented;  and  that 
every  recipe  needed  may  be  found  herein,  the  most  sensible  of  English 
and  French  recipes  are  given. 

TO  COOK  MUSHROOMS. 

Gather  mushrooms  whenever  they  can  be  found.  That  is  the  best 
time  of  the  day  to  collect  them.  The  gills  grow  darker  and  the  flavor 
improves  as  the  spores  ripen.  They  are  in  good  condition  up  to  the 
time  the  gills  begin  to  grow  moist  and  to  soften. 

Cut  off  the  extreme  butt  of  the  stem,  holding  the  gills  downward. 
Rub  off  the  cap  and  stem  with  a  rough  towel  or  flannel.  Do  not  peel. 
Wash  in  cold  water.  Drain  well,  gills  downward. 

636 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

The  English  method  is  to  scald  them,  but  there  is  more  of  custom 
than  use  in  it. 

Mushrooms  may  be  preserved  temporarily  by  boiling  them  in  salt 
and  water  for  five  minutes,  draining  and  wiping  dry.  A  better  way  is 
to  cook  them,  place  in  ice-chest,  and  reheat  when  wanted.  Mcllvaine. 

To  BROIL. — Use  well-spread  caps  only.  Use  double  iron  broiler. 
Place  the  caps  on  it,  gills  down,  and  broil  two  minutes,  turn  and  broil 
two  minutes  more.  While  hot,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  butter 
well,  especially  upon  the  gill  side.  Serve  upon  toast.  Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer, 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST. 

Bake  under  a  glass  or  basin,  on  toast  along  with  scalded  or  clotted 
cream  or  a  little  melted  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  They 
take  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  gentle  oven  or  before  a  fire ;  when 
they  are  taken  up,  do  not  remove  glass  for  a  few  minutes;  by  that  time 
the  vapor  will  have  condensed  and  gone  into  the  toast.  Stevens. 

CRUSTS  OF  MUSHROOMS.  V/~ 

Cut  into  small,  even-sized  squares  a  pint  of  the  selected  toadstool;  \  i 
stew  in  a  little  water  until  done;   add  two  ounces  butter  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper.     Wet  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour  with  two  gills  of  cream  and  mix  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Add,  and  mix  well  with  the  toadstool. 

Cut  the  upper  crust  from  some  small  French  rolls.  Scoop  out  the 
inside  of  both  upper  and  lower  part,  brush  them  with  melted  butter  and 
Brown  in  the  oven;  fill  them,  put  on  the  top.  Serve. 

Or,  when  cooked  as  directed,  serve  in  paper  cases,  or  pastry  shells. 

TO  DRY  MUSHROOMS.     (English  method.) 

Take  those  neither  very  young  nor  very  old.  Remove  the  butts  only. 
Then  slice,  string  or  skewer  the  slices  lightly,  and  expose  to  a  current 
of  warm  dry  air.  A  warm  oven,  with  the  door  open,  is  a  good  place. 
When  quite  dry  and  shrivelled,  pack  in  tins,  with  spice  at  top  and  bot- 
tom. When  wanted  for  use,  soak  the  slices  in  tepid  water  for  some 
hours.  Then  cook.  Hay. 


637 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST. 

Cut  the  mushrooms — caps  and  stems — into  pieces  of  equal  size.  Place 
in  a  covered  saucepan.  To  each  pint  add  one  ounce  (two  level  table- 
spoonfuls)  of  butter.  Enough  water  will  have  been  retained  by  the  gills 
after  washing  to  make  sufficient  liquor.  Stew  slowly  twenty  minutes; 
season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt.  Place  upon  toast.  Mcllvaine. 

TO  FRY  MUSHROOMS. 

Lay  them  in  a  frying  pan  in  which  butter  has  been  heated  boiling 
hot.  After  frying  five  minutes  serve  on  a  hot  dish — pouring  over  them 
the  sauce  made  by  thickening  the  butter  with  a  little  flour.  This  is  as 
delicious  as  more  elaborate  ways  of  cooking  and  retains  the  mushroom's 
distinctive  flavor  in  full  perfection. 

FRICASSE  OF  MUSHROOMS. 

Wash,  put  them  into  a  chafing  dish,  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  cover  and  cook  slowly 
for  five  minutes.  Moisten  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  gill  of  milk, 
strain  this  into  the  mushrooms,  bring  to  boiling  point,  add  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  serve 
at  once.  Mrs.  S.  T.  Rarer. 

MUSHROOM  PICKLES. 

One-half  peck  of  either  Agaricus  campester,  Lepiota  procera,  Hy- 
pholoma  fascicularis,  Hypholoma  perplexum,  Clitocybe  multiceps, 
Russula  virescens.  Select  sound  specimens,  cut  off  ends  of  stems 
(entire  stem  of  fascicularis  or  procerus),  rub  the  tops  with  flannel 
dipped  in  salt.  Throw  them  into  milk  and  water  (one-fourth  milk). 
Drain  and  put  them  into  a  stew  pan.  Sprinkle  the  layers  with  salt— 
one-half  gill  to  one-half  peck  mushrooms.  Cover  them  close  and  put 
them  over  a  gentle  fire  for  five  minutes  to  draw  out  the  water.  Then 
put  them  on  a  coarse  cloth  and  drain  until  cold  (or  put  on  mosquito 
netting  in  a  colander). 

To  prepare  a  pickle  for  them  :  Take  one-half  gallon  vinegar  (if  strong 
dilute  with  water),  two  ounces  mace,  one-fourth  ounce  cloves,  one-half 
pound  salt  (Worcester),  one  teaspoonful  red  pepper,  one  nutmeg  cut 
in  slices. 

Put  in  a  jar  covered  with  a  wet  cloth  and  keep  the  cloth  wet.  Place 
over  a  very  slow  fire,  cook  as  long  as  the  acid  is  prominent  and  no  longer. 

638 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

Take  small  wide-mouthed  bottles,  fill  with  the  mushrooms,  pour  on 
the  pickle  until  the  bottle  is  filled.  Tie  down  tight.  (To  slice  a  nut- 
meg, boil  it  in  vinegar — slice  while  hot.  Makes  of  salt  vary  in  strength  ; 
the  "Worcester"  is  a  strong  salt.) 

N.  B. — When  H.  fascicularis  is  used,  wipe  the  tops  with  a  wet  cloth. 

Mcllvaine. 

TO  PICKLE  MUSHROOMS.     (English  style.) 

Take  buttons  and  remove  butts  only.  Put  into  jars  and  cover  with 
cold,  spiced  pickling  vinegar.  Add  a  few  peppercorns  and  mustard 
seeds  and  seal  hermetically.  Hay. 

MUSHROOM  CATCHUP. 

Take  the  opened  toadstools,  clean  carefully,  bruise  them.  Put  a 
layer  on  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  pan,  strew  salt  over  them  (two 
tablespoonfuls  to  one-fourth  peck),  another  layer,  more  salt  and  so  on. 
One-half  ounce  cloves,  one-half  ounce  mace,  one-half  ounce  allspice, 
one-half  ounce  whole  pepper.  Let  stand  six  days.  Stir  every  day. 
Then  put  in  gentle  oven,  cover  pan  with  wet  cloth,  keep  wet,  and  heat 
for  four  hours.  Strain  through  a  fine  cloth  or  sieve.  To  every  gallon 
of  liquor  add  one  quart  red  wine.  Salt  to  taste.  Add  a  race  or  two 
.of  ginger  cut  small.  Strain  ;  let  catchup  get  cold.  Pour  it  from  the 
settlings.  Bottle.  Cork  tight.  Mcllvaine. 

MUSHROOM  CATCHUP. 

A  catchup  superior  to  that  sold  in  the  stores  may  be  made  at  home. 
Break  the  toadstools  into  bits  and  place  in  a  stone  jar,  with  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  salt  for  every  quart  of  plants.  Let  stand  in  a  cool  place 
for  three  days,  stirring  several  times  a  day.  On  the  third  day  put  over 
the  fire,  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  heat  slowly.  In  about  half  an  hour 
the  juice  will  flow  freely,  when  strain  through  a  hair  sieve,  return  to  the 
fire  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Measure  the  liquid  and  to  each  quart 
allow  an  ounce  of  ginger  root,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bay  leaf,  a  pinch  of 
cayenne,  and  an  ounce  each  of  allspice  and  black  pepper;  boil  down  to 
one-half  the  quantity,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  the  best  brandy  to  each 
half-pint.  Bottle.  Cork  and  seal  with  wax  or  rosin.  Anon. 

639 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

MUSHROOM  CATCHUP.     (English  style.) 

Remove  the  butts.  Sprinkle  all  with  salt.  Pile  in  a  bowl.  Let 
them  remain  so  for  three  days,  stirring  occasionally.  Then  squeeze 
out  all  the  liquor.  To  each  gallon  of  it  add  cloves  and  mustard  seed, 
crushed,  of  each  half  an  ounce;  allspice,  peppercorns  and  ginger, 
crushed,  of  each  one  ounce.  Heat  slowly  up  to  boiling  point  in  a 
covered  vessel.  Set  aside  in  a  warm  place  for  a  fortnight.  Then  strain 
and  bottle.  If  the  catchup  shows  signs  of  not  keeping,  add  more  salt 
and  spice,  heat  and  proceed  as  before.  Hay. 

CANNED  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

Cook  together,  until  a  light  brown  color,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
butter  and  flour,  add  a  can  of  button  mushrooms,  with  the  water  it  con- 
tains, and  a  cupful  of  water  or  broth.  Simmer  five  minutes,  stirring 
meanwhile,  season  and  serve.  The  flavor  of  the  mushroom  is  more  dis- 
tinct and  pronounced  if  the  sauce  is  seasoned  only  with  salt  and  mixed 
pepper.  If  broth  is  used  in  the  preparation  of  mushroom  sauce  instead 
of  water,  it  should  be  the  broth  of  such  meat  as  the  sauce  is  to  be 
served  with — for  instance,  chicken  broth  when  to  be  served  with  chicken, 
beef  broth  when  to  be  served  with  beef,  etc. 

Mrs.  Emma  P.  Ewing. 

FRESH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

Put  in  a  graniteware  or  porcelain-lined  saucepan  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter.  When  hot  add  two  cups  of  fresh,  prepared  mushrooms,  cover 
closely,  and  cook  briskly  two  or  three  minutes.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with  broiled  beefsteak,  birds,  or  sweetbreads. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Ewing. 

TO  COOK  BOLETI. 

Remove  the  stems,  and  the  tubes  unless  they  are  compact  and  young, 
or  the  dish  will  be  slimy  from  the  tubes.  Wipe  the  caps  clean. 

To  BROIL. — Put  on  wire  broiler  or  in  a  hot  buttered  pan.  Cook  well. 
Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

To  STEW. — After  cutting  the  caps  in  pieces  of  similar  size,  stew  in  a 
covered  saucepan  for  twenty  minutes.  Do  not  use  much  water.  When 
done,  add  butter,  or  cream,  pepper  and  salt.  Some  persons  may  pre- 
fer to  add  a  little  lemon  juice  or  sherry. 

640 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

To  BAKE. — Bake  for  half  an  hour  in  covered  dish,  add  oil  or  butter, 
a  little  parsley,  and  garlic  if  liked,  pepper  and  salt. 

To  FRY. — Remove  the  tubes  from  all  the  caps,  excepting  of  very 
young  or  very  short-tubed  species.  Slice  the  caps  as  you  would  egg- 
plant. Fry  in  butter,  oil  or  fat,  or  dip  in  batter  or  in  egg  crumbs. 

Mcllvaine. 

B.  EDULIS  SOUP  (as  made  in  Hungary). — Having  dried  some  Boleti 
in  an  oven,  soak  them  in  tepid  water,  thickening  with  toast  bread,  till  the 
whole  be  of  the  consistency  of  a  puree,  then  rub  them  through  a  sieve, 
throw  in  some  stewed  Boleti,  boil  together,  and  serve  with  the  usual 
condiments.  Paulet. 

To  DRY  BOLETI  (English  method). — Gather  in  dry  weather.  Re- 
move stems  and  tubes.  Wipe  clean  with  a  damp  cloth.  Slice.  String 
the  slices.  Hang  up  in  a  warm  place  for  two  days.  Then  give  them  a 
minute  in  a  moderately  warm  oven.  Pack  in  tins  with  spice.  When 
wanted  steep  the  slices  in  tepid  water  for  some  hours,  till  they  swell. 
Then  proceed  to  dress  as  for  fresh  Bolets.  The  Russians  retain  the  stems 
and  dry  their  Bolets  whole,  stringing  them  up  the  stem  and  through  the 
center  of  the  cap.  Hay. 

TO  COOK  CANTHARELLUS  CIBARIUS. 

Cut  the  mushrooms  across  and  remove  the  stems ;  put  them  into  a 
closely-covered  saucepan  with  a  little  fresh  butter,  and  sweat  them  un- 
til tender,  at  the  lowest  possible  temperature.  A  great  heat  always  de- 
stroys the  flavor.  Mrs.  Hussey. 

Wash,  cut  into  pieces  and  put  into  boiling  water;  then  stew  with 
fresh  butter,  a  little  olive  oil,  chopped  tarragon,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 
lemon  peel;  when  cooked  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  twenty  minutes, 
moistening  from  time  to  time  with  beef  gravy  or  cream.  When  ready 
to  serve  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  egg.  M.  C.  Cooke. 

To  FRY. — Dip  caps  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  fry  in  hot  butter  or  oil. 

To  STEW. — Cut  the  whole  plant  into  small  pieces  across  the  grain, 
stew  slowly  in  a  covered  saucepan  for  forty  minutes.  Add  thickened 
cream  or  milk.  Use  freely  of  butter  and  season  to  taste. 

To  ROAST. — Place  in  a  hot  dry  pan  over  a  slow  fire,  shake  and  turn 
until  the  plants  are  crisp.  Butter  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  A 
fine  camp  dish. 

41  641 


Recipes  for  Cooking:  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

To  PRESERVE  FOR  WINTER  USE. — Pull  into  strips  one-half  inch  wide, 
spread  on  a  piece  of  mosquito  netting  and  place  in  the  sun  or  current 
of  warm  air.  When  dry  hang  up  in  small  bags  or  mosquito  netting  in 
a  dry  place.  Mcllvaine. 

TO  COOK  CLAVARIA. 

Fry  in  hot  butter,  oil  or  fat  until  well  done;  or  stew,  covered  with  a 
little  water,  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour.  When  done  add  cream 
or  milk,  a  little  flour,  plenty  of  butter  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Salt  last,  always,  or  it  will  harden  the  plants.  Mcllvaine. 

To  PlCKLE  (English  recipe). — Put  the  tender  parts  into  jars  with 
peppercorns,  mustard  seeds  and  nasturtium  seeds.  Pour  on  them  cold 
white  wine  vinegar.  Fill  up  and  cork  hermetically.  Hay. 

TO  COOK  CLITOCYBE  MULTICEPS. 

To  BAKE. — Wash  caps,  remove  stems,  let  drain  for  a  few  minutes; 
place  gills  upward  in  a  pan ;  place  on  gills  a  small-sized  lump  of  butter ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt;  grate  cheese  over  each  layer,  cover  pan, 
and  place  in  hot  oven  to  bake  for  one-half  hour. 

An  exceptionally  fine  dish.     They  are  excellent  fried. 

Other  species  of  similar  consistency  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 
See  Toadstools  with  Cheese.  Mcllvaine. 

TO  COOK  COPRINUS. 

"In  regard  to  the  C.  micaceus  I  find  that  they  are  better  cooked  after 
the  following  recipe : 

"Trim  the  stems,  wash  the  toadstools  carefully  through  several  waters, 
then  drain  them  in  a  colander.  Spread  them  out  in  a  long  baking  pan, 
dust  lightly  with  salt,  pepper,  put  over  a  few  bits  of  butter,  cover  with 
another  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Add 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  bring  to  boiling  point;  dish  on  toast. 

"The  C.  atramentarius  may  be  cooked  in  precisely  the  same  manner. 
I  find  that  all  these  inky  mushrooms  are  better  cooked  in  a  very  slow 
heat  in  the  oven,  and  they  must  be  covered  or  they  lose  their  flavor." 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Rarer. 

C.  comatus,  or  any  other  Coprinus,  maybe  treated  in  the  same  man- 
ner ;  or  they  may  be  stewed  slowly  in  a  covered  dish  for  from  five  to 
ten  minutes.  Mcllvaine. 

642 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

CROQUETTES. 

To  one  pint  of  any  well-cooked  toadstool  of  meaty  species,  add  two 
hard-boiled  eggs,  a  sprig  of  parsley;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  chop  all 
very  fine,  then  take  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  flour, 
put  over  the  fire  with  the  toadstools  and  eggs ;  mix  thoroughly  together, 
set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  shape,  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  oil,  butter  or  fat.  Mcllvaine. 

DEVILED  TOADSTOOLS. 

For  deviled  toadstools  prepare  the  meat  as  for  patties,  adding  the 
yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  each  pint  of  meat,  a  pinch  of  red 
pepper  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Serve  hot  or  cold  in  halves  of 
egg  shells,  nested  among  green.  Mcllvaine. 

TO  COOK  FISTULINA  HEPATICA. 

Mrs.  Hussey  says  of  it:     "If  it  is  not  beef  itself,  it  is  sauce  for  it." 

It  can  be  sliced  thin  and  dressed  as  a  salad  with  mayonnaise  dressing 
or  otherwise. 

The  simplest  and  best  way  is  to  cut  the  fungus  into  slices  as  one 
would  egg-plant.  If  it  is  small,  slice  it  into  two  parts,  fry  in  hot  butter, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Another  favorite  way  is  to  slice  the  plant  across  the  grain,  cut  into 
squares  of  one-half  inch  and  cook  very  slowly  in  a  covered  pan  for 
twenty  minutes.  Add  a  little  water,  and  plenty  of  butter.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

The  F.  hepatica  always  has  a  slightly  acid  taste,  which  is  very 
acceptable  to  most  persons,  but  objectionable  to  a  few.  Mcllvaine. 

SALAD. — Cut  in  thin  slices  and  rub  them  with  garlic.  Mingle  with 
lettuce  or  other  green  salad.  Dress  with  oil,  vinegar,  pepper,  mustard 
and  salt.  Serve.  Hay. 

TO  BROIL  ANY  CAPPED  FUNGUS. 

Select  those  that  are  spread  open  and  keep  the  unopened  for  other 
styles  of  serving.  Cut  off  the  stems  close  to  the  tops.  Baste  well  with 
melted  butter  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  pepper  and  salt.  Heat  the  broiler 
very  hot,  lay  the  caps  upon  it  with  the  gills  up  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire, 
turning  the  broiler  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other.  As  soon  as 
tender,  which  will  be  in  about  five  minutes,  open  the  broiler,  remove 

643 


Recipes  for  Cooking1  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

the  caps  with  care,  and  place  on  well-buttered  slices  of  the  toast  which 
have  been  previously  prepared.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  sauce  made  of 
drawn  butter,  or  hot  water  thickened  with  flour  to  the  consistency  of 
cream. 

FRIED  TOADSTOOLS. 

Take  the  caps  only — one  pint — well  drained  and  carefully  seasoned 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  black  pepper.  Place 
in  a  pan  with  one  ounce  of  butter  (a  lump  the  size  of  a  small  egg). 
Fry  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Add  a  little  milk  or  cream  thickened  with 
flour.  Serve  on  hot  toast. 

TO   COOK  HYDNUM. 

In  cooking  Hydnei  care  must  be  taken  to  cook  slowly  and  well. 

Use  the  tender  parts  only  of  stems  and  caps  of  the  capped  species, 
and  soft,  fresh  parts  of  the  maned  species ;  cut  into  small  pieces  of 
similar  size,  stew  slowly  in  covered  saucepan  for  from  thirty  to  forty 
minutes,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Serve. 

Or,  after  stewing  for  forty  minutes  as  above,  drain  off  the  water,  chop 
fine,  make  into  croquettes  or  into  pates. 

A  HUNTER'S  TOAST. 

Carry  a  vial  of  olive  oil  or  a  small  can  of  butter,  some  pepper  and 
salt  mixed.  An  edible  toadstool  found,  collect  a  few  dry  twigs,  fire 
them.  Split  a  green  stick  (sassafras,  birch  or  spice-wood  best)  at  one 
end ;  put  the  toadstool  in  the  cleft,  hold  it  over  the  fire ;  oil  or  butter, 
season.  Eat  from  the  stick.  Mcllvaine. 

TO  COOK  HYPHOLOMAS. 

To  STEW. — Wash  the  caps,  stew  slowly  in  the  water  which  the  gills 
retain,  for  half  an  hour,  keeping  dish  covered.  Add  plenty  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  add  cream  or  milk  with  a  little  thickening. 

The  Hypholomas  have  a  slightly  bitter  taste,  of  which  most  persons 
become  very  fond;  if  it  is  objectionable,  add  a  small  amount  of  lemon 
juice  or  sherry.  Mcllvaine. 

H.  PERPLEXUM. — Put  one  dessertspoonful  of  vinegar  in  a  quart  of 
water.  Soak  the  caps  in  this  mixture  twenty  minutes.  Then  take  them 
out  and  stew  slowly  for  half  an  hour  in  a  covered  vessel,  adding  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  A  small  quantity  of  onion  is  thought 

644 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

by  some  to  improve  th«  flavor,  and  a  thickening  of  flour  and  milk  just 
before  serving  is  an  improvement.  Prof.  C.  H.  Peck. 

The  above  is  given  as  recipe  for  cooking  H.  perplexum.  It  answers 
equally  well  for  the  many  Hypholomas  resembling  it.  Mcllvaine. 

To  BXKE. — Wash  caps,  remove  stems,  let  drain  for  a  few  minutes, 
place  gills  upward  in  a  pan,  place  on  gills  a  small-sized  lump  of  butter, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  pan,  and  place  in  oven  to  bake  for 
one-half  hoar.  Mcllvaine. 

TO  COOK  LACTARII. 

The  rich  juices  of  the  Lactarii  are  best  retained  by  baking.  The  spe- 
cies grow  hard  and  granular  if  cooked  rapidly.  Baked  they  are  excel- 
lent. This  method  is  preferable  to  stewing,  but  no  one  will  despise  a 
properly  made  stew  of  them. 

TO  COOK  MARASMIUS  OREADES. 

Remove  the  stems,  wash  the  caps,  place  in  a  covered  saucepan  and 
simmer  for  thirty  minutes,  adding  sufficient  water  to  prevent  scorching; 
add  a  little  milk  or  cream,  butter  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 

Or,  simply  fry  in  butter,  make  a  gravy  and  season  to  taste. 

To  DRY. — String  the  caps  on  threads  and  loop  up  in  a  dry  place,  and 
when  thoroughly  dry  place  in  tight  glass  jars  or  tin  cases. 

TO  COOK  THE  MORELL— MORCHELLA  (from  Persoon). 

1 .  Having  washed  and  cleansed  them  from  the  earth  which  is  apt  to 
collect  between  the  plaits  or  hollows  of  the  plant,  dry  thoroughly  in  a 
napkin  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  pepper,  salt  and  parsley, 
adding  or  not  a  piece  of  ham.     Stew  for  an  hour,  pouring  in  occasionally 
a  little  broth  to  prevent  burning.     When  sufficiently  done,  bind  with 
the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

2.  MORELLES  A  L'lTALIENNE. — Having  washed  and  dried,  divide 
them  across,  put  them  on  the  fire  with  some  parsley,  scallion,  chevril, 
burnet,   tarragon,  chives,   a  little  salt,   and  two  spoonfuls  of  fine  oil. 
Stew  till  the  juices  run  out,  then  thicken  with  a  little  flour;   serve  with 
bread  crumbs  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice. 

645 


Recipes  for  Cooking1  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

PATES. 

The  toadstools  good  for  croquettes  and  pates  are  such  as  the  Puff- 
balls,  Lactarii,  Gomphidius  rhodoxanthus,  Fistulina  hepatica,  Tricho- 
loma  personatum  and  many  others  of  the  meaty  kinds.  Cut  the  toad- 
stools into  small  pieces,  cook  slowly  until  tender,  adding  butter;  pepper 
and  salt.  Let  them  cook  almost  dry,  then  add  cream  or  milk  and  thick- 
ening. Fill  pastry  shells  and  serve.  Mel  lvalue. 

A  pretty  effect  is  produced  by  dipping  the  rims  of  the  shells  in  par- 
tially beaten  white  of  egg,  then  in  finely-chopped  parsley  before  filling. 

TO  COOK  PLEUROTUS  OSTREATUS. 

Remove  tough  stem-part,  if  any,  and  use  only  such  parts  of  the 
plants  as  seem  fresh  and  tender. 

To  STEW. — Cut  in  small  pieces  across  the  grain.  Stew  twenty  minutes 
over  slow  fire  with  a  little  water.  Add  cream  or  milk  with  a  little 
thickening;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt. 

To  FRY. — Cut  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  medium-sized  oyster, 
dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  butter  or  oil,  as  oysters 
are  fried.  Mcllvaine. 

WITH  CHEESE — au  gratin. — Cut  into  medium-sized  pieces.  Stew 
slowly,  rather  dry,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  off  liquor;  save  it.  Place 
in  baking  dish  (or  in  individual  dishes,  clam  shells,  etc.)  a  layer  of 
ostreatus,  buttering  and  seasoning  each  layer,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs  and  grated  cheese  and  so  on  until  dish  is  filled,  placing  cheese 
on  top.  Pour  liquor  over  the  dish.  Place  in  slow  oven  and  bake  until 
well  browned. 

This  manner  of  cooking  is  a  favorite.  Any  toadstool  may  be  cooked 
in  this  way.  Mcllvaine. 

Wash.  Put  them  into  a  chafing  dish  with  one  ounce  of  butter  to 
each  half  pound  of  plant.  Sprinkle  over  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
cover  the  dish  and  cook  slowly  for  five  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  with  one  gill  of  good  milk,  lift  the  lid,  add  the  mixture  of  eggs 
and  milk;  when  smoking  hot  serve.  Do  not  allow  the  mixture  to  boil 
or  the  eggs  will  become  curdled. 

RECIPE  No.  2. — Wash.  Dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  egg, 
then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  quickly  in  smoking  hot  olive  oil. 

The  following  recipe  was  given  me  by  a  chef: 

"Put  into  the  saucepan  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  a  clove  of  garlic, 

646 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

a  thin  slice  of  onion,  stir  until  slightly  brown  and  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  Mix  carefully,  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  beef  extract 
dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  water  and  the  same  quantity  of  cream.  Bring 
to  boiling  point,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  carrot,  a  bay  leaf,  and 
a  blade  of  mace.  Stand  the  mixture  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove 
where  it  will  scarcely  boil,  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  and  add  half  a 
pound  of  ostreatus.  Cover  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Serve  on  toast." 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer. 

TO  COOK  PUFF-BALLS. 

To  FRY. — Remove  the  thin  outer  rind,  slice,  dip  in  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  as  egg-plant;  serve  without  tomato  sauce. 

To  STEW. — Cut  in  dice-shaped  pieces,  stew  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a 
little  water,  pour  off  the  water,  dust  with  a  little  flour,  add  a  small 
quantity  of  milk  or  cream,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  parsley. 
Stew  slowly  for  five  minutes.  Serve.  These  also  may  be  served  in 
pates.  When  these  are  broken  open  they  should  be  perfectly  white  in- 
side;  any  stains  or  yellow  part  should  be  removed,  otherwise  they  will 
be  bitter.  Mcllvaine. 

SALADS. — Cut  into  strips,  mingle  with  mustard  and  cress,  or  with 
blanched  dandelions,  scallions  and  hard-boiled  egg,  and  dress  as  ordi- 
narily for  a  salad.  Or,  amalgamate  with  potato  salad  a  1'Allemande. 

Hay. 
TO  COOK  TRICHOLOMA  PERSONATUM. 

To  STEW. — Wash  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Stew  for  thirty  minutes. 
Pour  off  the  water,  add  milk  slightly  thickened,  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
a  little  chopped  parsley.  Mcllvaine. 

TO  STEW  THE  TOUGHER  TOADSTOOLS. 

(Hydnaceje,  Polyporaceae,  Etc.) 

Cut  into  small  pieces  of  even  size.  Soak  for  half  an  hour  in  tepid 
water.  Remove  from  water,  do  not  drain ;  place  in  covered  pan  and 
simmer  for  forty  minutes.  Add  proper  proportion  of  thickened  milk  or 
cream,  butter,  pepper,  salt. 

Those  who  like  may  add  parsley  or  nutmeg,  or  beef  gravy ;  in  fact, 
any  flavoring.  Mcllvaine. 

647 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

SALADS. 

Many  species  of  fungi  make  good  salads.  The  best  of  these  are, 
Russulas  when  young,  fresh  and  firm ;  either  sliced  raw  or  stewed  and 
drained ;  Clitocybe  multiceps  stewed  and  drained ;  Tricholoma  per- 
sonatum,  raw  or  stewed;  Clitopilus  prunulus,  raw  or  stewed;  Coprinus 
comatus,  C.  micaceus,  atramentarius,  raw;  Clavaria,  fresh,  young,  brit- 
tle, either  raw  or  stewed;  Fistulina  hepatica,  raw;  any  of  the  edible 
Polyporaceae,  after  stewing;  any  of  the  edible  Hydnaceae  after  stewing ; 
the  puff-balls,  raw  or  stewed.  Any  favorite  species  will  make  a  salad. 

After  cooking  allow  to  drain  and  cool ;  then  mix  with  mayonnaise 
dressing,  or  make  a  dressing  to  taste  of  oil,  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  on  lettuce. 

SOUP. 

Dame  Nature  never  made  a  soup.  Soup  is  a  human  invention  of 
more  or  less  distinctiveness.  Usually  it  is  a  successful  disguise  or  cov- 
ering of  invisibility  for  something  which  furnishes  the  name. 

To  make  two  quarts  of  a  distinctly  fungoid  soup  take  one  quart  of 
any  edible  toadstools,  carefully  cleaned.  Put  in  a  well-covered  boiler 
with  three  pints  of  water,  and  boil  slowly  for  one  hour.  Rub  the  whole 
through  a  colander.  Reject  that  which  does  not  rub  through  readily. 
Add  one-half  pint  of  milk  thickened  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
one  ounce  of  butter,  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Bring  to  a  boil.  Serve. 

Any  chosen  thing  or  things  may  be  added  to  the  above — the  toad- 
stools can  not  resent  it.  Mcllvaine. 

TOADSTOOLS  WITH  CHEESE. 

Several  varieties  of  fungi  are  delicious  when  baked  with  a  small  quan- 
tity of  cheese  grated  upon  them ;  notably  Clitocybe  multiceps,  the 
Hypholomas,  Armillarias,  Pleurotus  ulmarius  and  ostreatus,  Lentinus 
lepideus  and  many  Boleti.  See  recipe  for  baking.  When  several  layers 
of  plants  compose  the  dish,  cheese  should  be  grated  on  each  layer. 

Mcllvaine. 

BAKED  TOADSTOOLS  OF  ANY  GILLED  KIND. 

Wash,  place  the  caps  in  a  tightly  covered  dish  or  pan  after  dipping 
them  in  bread  crumbs.  Lay  them  in  layers,  with  a  small  piece  of 
butter  on  each  toadstool,  as  well  as  the  proper  amount  of  pepper  and 

648 


Recipes  for  Cooking  and  Preparing  for  the  Table 

salt.  Bake  from  twenty  to  forty  minutes  as  suits  the  consistency  of  the 
species.  Serve  on  toast. 

Or,  the  caps  prepared  as  above,  may  be  laid  upon  pieces  of  toast  and 
placed  in  the  pan.  If  this  plan  is  adopted  the  lower  pieces  of  toast 
become  saturated  with  the  liquor;  therefore,  in  serving,  cut  from  top  to 
bottom  of  dish. 

See  To  Cook  Clitocybe  Multiceps.  Mcllvaine. 

A  CAMP  BAKE. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  tin  plate  with  caps,  spore  surface  up.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  place  a  bit  of  butter  on  each.  Put  another  tin 
plate  on  top.  Set  on  coals  or  a  heated  stone  for  fifteen  minutes.  Eat. 
No  better  baking  will  result  in  the  best  oven.  Mcllvaine. 


649 


RAISING  MUSHROOMS  AT  HOME 

By  the  courtesy  of  the  publishers  of  The  Woman's  Home  Companion,  the  author 
is  permitted  to  republish  his  article,  "  Raising  Mushrooms  at  Home,"  which  appeared  in 
the  October,  1901,  number  of  that  excellent  monthly — encyclopedic  in  all  home  matters. 

'N  October  is  the  time  to  prepare  the  manure  and  beds 
for  house-raising  of  mushrooms.  During  the  warm 
months  they  can  not  be  cultivated  without  trial  of 
one's  temper  and  test  of  one's  taste.  Any  one  hav- 
ing control  of  a  cellar  can  raise  a  fine  crop  of  expec- 
tations, and  may  raise  a  crop  of  mushrooms  by  either 
accident  or  experience.  They  are  at  all  times  the 
most  contrary  of  growths,  and  require  the  nicest  man- 
agement and  much  patience.  The  first  thing  to  do  is  to  select  a  well- 
ventilated  spot  away  from  direct  drafts,  where  the  temperature  can  be 
maintained  at  from  fifty  to  sixty  degrees  and  a  moist  atmosphere  as- 
sured. Thoroughly  cleanse  the  cellar  and  give  it  an  entire  covering  of 
whitewash. 

Decide  upon  the  size  of  bed  desired.  In  width  the  bed  should  not 
exceed  reaching  distance*  to  its  center  when  there  is  a  pathway  on  each 
side  of  it,  say  six  feet.  The  length  of  the  bed  should  reach  to  its  use- 
ful stopping-place.  If  the  cellar  has  a  portable  heater  in  it,  and  is  warm, 
the  bed  should  be  ten  to  twelve  inches  in  depth ;  if  the  heater  is  walled 
in,  or  the  cellar  is  cool,  the  bed  should  be  fifteen  inches  deep. 

Calculate  how  much  fresh  horse-manure,  with  the  long  straw  only  re- 
moved from  it  and  that  has  not  been  rained  upon,  it  will  take  to  make 
a  bed  of  desired  dimensions  solidly  tramped.  Get  it,  put  it  in  a  com- 
pact heap,  and  keep  it  covered  from  rain.  It  will  heat  rapidly  and  get 
smoking-hot,  because  a  fermentation  sets  in  which  produces  heat.  If 
loam  can  be  procured  from  a  pasture  or  elsewhere  it  is  well  to  add  one- 
fifth  (in  bulk)  of  it  to  the  manure,  mixing  it  thoroughly.  This  addi- 
tion retards  the  fermentation  and  absorbs  the  ammonia — a  valuable  fer- 

650 


Raising  Mushrooms  at  Home 

tilizer — which  would  otherwise  be  driven  off  by  the  heat.  It  also  takes 
up  any  surplus  of  moisture. 

After  the  compact  pile  has  been  thus  prepared  it  should  stand  two  or 
three  days,  then  be  well  forked  over  and  again  piled.  This  forking 
should  be  repeated  from  four  to  six  times,  at  intervals  of  from  two  to 
four  days,  depending  upon  the  use  or  not  of  loam,  which  affects  the 
rapidity  of  heating.  If  loam  is  used  the  forking  should  be  at  longer  in- 
tervals unless  the  heat  becomes  excessive.  The  manure  will  probably 
then  be  in  good  order  to  go  into  beds.  It  is  upon  proper,  careful  prep- 
aration of  this  medium  that  successful  mushroom-raising  greatly  de- 
pends. All  work  and  hopes  are  thrown  away  if  the  greatest  care  is  not 
exercised.  Just  as  it  is  folly  to  buy  poor  seeds  upon  which  to  expend 
costly  labor,  so  it  is  folly  to  make  beds  of  poorly  prepared  manure. 

The  manure  must  neither  contain  too  much  nor  too  little  water.     By 


BRICK    CUT     FOR     PLANTING. 


far  the  largest  percentage  of  failures  is  due  to  too  much.  It  rots  the 
spawn  vine  (mycelium),  and  thus  destroys  the  starting  place  of  the 
fruit,  or  mushroom.  The  object  in  forking  the  manure  so  frequently 
is  to  sweeten  it  (as  the  operation  is  called)  and  to  prevent  overheating 
from  fermentation.  If  it  gets  too  hot  it  "burns" — gets  too  dry. 
Molding,  too,  is  avoided.  Moldy  manure  will  not  produce.  If,  in 
forking  over  the  pile,  dry  places  are  found,  they  should  be  sprinkled 
with  water;  if,  when  the  fermentation  grows  less  active,  the  manure  is 
too  wet,  spread  it  out  to  air  and  dry  somewhat.  It  is  in  good  condi- 
tion and  properly  moist  when  tight  squeezing  will  not  press  water  from 
it.  Far  better  that  it  should  be  too  dry  than  too  wet.  The  manure  now 
ready  should  be  moved  to  the  cellar  and  made  in,to  beds  while  warm. 

Good  ventilation  is  a  necessity.  Two  thermometers  are  needed — 
one  to  mark  the  temperature  of  the  cellar,  the  other  to  place  well  and 
solidly  down  in  the  bed  to  record  what  it  is  doing  in  the  heat  way.  It 
is  probable  that  the  mercury  will  rise  slowly.  It  may  go  as  high  as 

651 


Raising  Mushrooms  at  Home 

one  hundred  and  twenty-five  or  one  hundred  and  thirty  degrees.  Do 
not  disturb  the  bed,  however  high  it  goes.  When  it  falls  to  between 
ninety  and  eighty  degrees  plant  the  spawn.  If  possible,  keep  the  tem- 
perature up  for  several  days.  It  should  then  fall  slowly  to  sixty 
degrees,  but  go  down  no  farther.  Never  plant  on  a  rising  temperature. 

Mushroom-spawn  comes  in  brick-shaped  blocks.  They  can  be  pur- 
chased, of  good  quality,  from  any  reliable  seedsman.  These  blocks 
are  made  of  a  mixture  of  dungs,  through  which  the  mycelium,  or  vine, 
from  which  mushrooms  grow,  has  been  run.  After  this  mixture  is  filled 
with  the  vine  (badly  named  spawn)  it  is  pressed  into  blocks  and  dried. 
It  should  be  kept  dry  until  used.  Spawning  a  bed  is  nothing  more 
than  placing  cuttings  of  this  exceedingly  fine  vine  under  the  influence 
of  moisture  and  heat  in  a  soil  fitted  for  its  growth  (such  as  the  bed 
should  be),  then  inducing  it  to  run  and  fruit.  Spawn  is  originally  made 
to  grow  by  planting  the  seed  of  mushrooms  in  specially  prepared  dungs 
and  germinating  them.  The  mycelium,  or  vine,  coming  from  this 
germination  is  called  "virgin  spawn,"  and  is  perpetuated  in  its  growth 
by  running  (training)  it  through  manures,  pieces  of  which  form  the 
spawn  of  commerce. 

With  a  sharp  hatchet  cut  the  bricks  into  twelve  pieces  of  equal  size ; 
a  fine,  clean  meat-saw  may  be  used,  as  it  reduces  breakage.  With  the 
hand  make  holes  in  the  bed  ten  inches  apart  each  way.  These  holes 
must  be  so  deep  that  when  the  lumps  of  spawn  are  thrust  firmly  down 
into  them  the  top  of  the  lumps  will  be  not  less  than  one  inch  or  more 
than  two  inches  below  the  surface  of  the  bed.  Cover  the  lumps  firmly. 
Have  the  surface  of  the  bed  as  even  as  possible.  Without  having  to  go 
very  far  into  the  cold  region  of  mathematics,  the  number  of  bricks  of 
spawn  needed  is  easily  figured.  Ascertain  the  number  of  holes,  ten 
inches  apart,  that  can  be  made  in  the  bed.  Divide  this  number  by 
twelve,  and  lo  !  you  have  it. 

After  the  bed  is  spawned  it  is  well  to  lay  a  double  thickness  of  news- 
papers over  it,  putting  a  few  plastering-laths  or  light  sticks  upon  them 
to  keep  them  in  place.  This  is  to  keep  the  heat  in  the  bed,  as  it  is 
desirable  that  the  temperature  should  not  run  down  too  rapidly.  It 
should  be  two  weeks  falling  to  sixty  degrees. 

Ten  days  after  spawning,  if  the  heat  of  the  bed  has  gone  down  to 
sixty-five  or  sixty  degrees,  cover  the  bed  with  two  inches  of  loam  and 

652 


Raising  Mushrooms  at  Home 

pat  it  solid  with  spade  or  board.  The  bed  should  not  be  covered  with 
loam  when  the  temperature  is  too  high.  Removing  the  papers  will 
allow  the  heat  to  escape.  At  the  time  of  covering  with  loam  the  spawn 
should  have  begun  to  spread.  It  will  show  plainly  in  the  manure  close 
to  the  lumps  of  spawn.  Its  odor  is  unmistakable,  being  musky,  spicy, 
much  like  mushrooms,  but  stronger.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  dis- 
turb the  new  mycelium,  as  all  breakage  of  the  fine,  web-like  threads 
lessens  its  product.  The  mycelium  should  start  and  grow  quickly  up  to 
the  time  of  covering  with  loam.  After  that  a  slow  increase  is  best.  To 
effect  this  the  surrounding  outside  temperature  should  be  from  fifty- 
seven  to  sixty-two  degrees.  Ventilation  should  be  upward  and  good, 
but  not  directly  upon  the  bed. 

The  mycelium  will  now  run  and  completely  fill  the  bed.  Minute 
white  nodules  will  appear  upon  the  threads  of  it ;  these  are  the  beginnings 
of  the  mushrooms  to  come.  In  from  seven  to  eight  weeks  after  spawn- 
ing tiny  button  mushrooms  should  appear  on  top  of  the  bed.  If  the 
cellar  has  been  cool  it  may  be  a  few  days  longer.  Mr.  Falconer  says, 
"If  the  temperature  of  the  bed  falls  below  fifty-seven  degrees,  and  the 
atmospheric  temperature  below  forty-five  degrees,  the  beds  should  be 
covered  with  matting  or  other  material."  Newspapers  will  do.  Upon 
the  appearance  of  the  mushrooms  is  the  time  a  moist  atmosphere  is 
needed.  This  is  obtained  by  sprinkling  the  walks  and  cellar  well  with 
warm  water.  This  moisture  should  be  kept  up  all  the  while  the  crop  is 
growing.  Unless  the  fruiting  beds  show  a  marked  dryness  they  should 
not  be  watered.  If  watering  is  required,  do  it  very  carefully  with  a 
fine  rose  or  syringe.  Have  the  pure  water  at  ninety  degrees,  and  do 
not  more  than  moisten  the  loam  covering.  Never  let  the  water  settle 
in  pools  or  wash  the  surface. 

After  the  bed  is  in  bearing  the  addition  of  strong,  liquid  manure 
plentifully  applied  between  the  bunches  (never  on  them)  will  add  to 
their  weight  and  size.  It  should  be  done  with  a  long  spout  without 
rose.  A  sprinkling  of  salt  on  bare  places  is  beneficial. 

GATHERING   THE   CROP. 

The  mushrooms  will  now  show  in  various  sizes,  from  pin-head  to 
large,  full-grown  specimens,  singly  and  in  dense  clusters.  As  fast  as 
they  reach  the  desired  size  twist  them  from  their  sockets.  Do  not  cut 
or  pull  them.  Keep  the  gills  downward,  to  prevent  dirt  getting  in  them. 

653 


Raising  Mushrooms  at  Home 

Take  care  not  to  disturb  those  left  in  the  beds  more  than  is  necessary. 
It  is  unnecessary  to  add,  cook  them,  but  it  is  very  necessary  to  tell  how, 
because  many  excellent  cooks  commit  the  outrageous  sacrilege  of  peel- 
ing mushrooms.  A  large  amount  of  the  flavor  and  deliciousness  of  a 
mushroom  is  in  the  skin — as  it  is  in  the  apple.  One  might  just  as  well 
peel  a  strawberry.  First,  always  holding  the  plant  gills  downward  and 
not  over  others,  cut  away  the  extreme  base  of  the  stem  and  brush  off 
any  adhering  dirt.  If  the  cap  shows  much  scruff,  rub  it  off  with  a  piece 
of  coarse  flannel  or  cloth.  Throw  the  mushrooms  thus  cleaned  into  cold 


BERTH    BEDS    AGAINST    CELLAR    WALLS. 


water;  they  will  float.  Run  the  fingers  through  them  several  times, 
then  lift  them  to  a  fresh  pan  of  water,  wash  them  and  place  them, 
gills  downward,  on  a  cloth  to  drain,  or  put  them  in  a  colander.  Then 
cook  them  to  taste.  Here,  again,  sacrilege  is  frequent.  Many  foods 
are  simply  mediums  for  added  flavors.  Not  so  the  mushroom ;  it 
has  a  decided,  exquisite  flavor  of  its  own.  It  should  not  be  made 
in  cooking  to  taste  like  something  else.  Put  the  mushrooms  in  a 
stew-pan  with  a  little  water;  cover  them,  and  stew  slowly  for  twenty 
minutes,  adding  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cream  or  milk  may 
be  added.  Another  very  good  v°y  is  to  butter  well  a  medium-hot 

654 


Raising  Mushrooms  at  Home 

pan;  cut  the  mushrooms  into  equal-sized  pieces,  put  them  in  it,  cover, 
and  fry.  Stir  them  from  time  to  time,  and  when  quite  done  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  A  good  gravy  is  made  for  them  by  using  water,  milk 
or  cream.  Now  if  you  must  have  a  meat  of  some  sort,  put  the  meat  on 
one  dish  and  the  mushrooms  on  another.  By  doing  this  you  spoil  the 
taste  of  neither. 

Beds  will  continue  to  produce  for  several  weeks  if  properly  cared  for. 
As  soon  as  they  cease  bearing  remove  them,  clean  up,  white-wash,  coal- 
oil  every  inch  of  wood,  salt  the  floor,  and  be  ready  to  try  again.  After 
the  amateur  has  his  or  her  hand  in,  the  bed  area  can  be  largely  increased 
by  building  rough  berths,  one  above  the  other,  in  which  beds  can  be 
made.  An  important  bit  of  advice  is:  Start  in  a  small  way.  Do  not 
expend  any  more  money  than  you  can  afford  to  lose. 


655 


ABBREVIATIONS  OF  THE  NAMES  OF  AUTHORS 

OF  SPECIES 


A.  and  S.f         Albertini  and  Schweinitz 

Forq., 

Arrh., 

Arrhenius 

FT., 

Fckl.  or  Fuck., 

B.  or  Bull., 

Bulliard 

Bad., 

Badham 

G.  or  Gill., 

Bagl., 

Baglietto 

G.  and  R., 

Bat.  or  Batsch, 

Batsch 

God., 

Batt., 

Battara 

Grev., 

Berk,  or  M.  J.  B 

,                        Berkeley 

Berk,  and  Br., 

Berkeley  and  Broome 

H.  and  M., 

Bolt., 

Bolton 

Hazs., 

Bon., 

Bonorden 

Hedw., 

Bond., 

Boudier 

Hoffm., 

Boud.  and  Pat.,  Boudierand  Patouillard 

Holmsk., 

Bref., 

Brefeld 

Huds., 

Bres., 

Bresadola 

Huss., 

Brig., 

Briganti 

Brond., 

Brondeau 

JacQ.. 

Brot., 

Brotero 

v  t*v'^i*  » 
Jungh., 

Cav.  and  Sech., 
C.  B.  P., 

Chev., 

Cavalier  and  S£chier 
Plowright 
Chevalier 

Kalchb., 
Karst., 

Cke., 

Cooke 

Klotzsch, 

Cord., 

Corda 

K., 

Crn., 

Crouan 

Cum., 

Cumino 

Lam., 

Curt., 

Curtis 

Lang., 

Lasch, 

D.  and  L., 

Durieu  and  L6veille 

Lenz, 

D.  C., 

De  Candolle 

Let.,  Letell., 

De  Guern., 

De  Guernisac 

Lev., 

Desm., 

Desmazieres 

Leys., 

Dill., 

Dillenius 

Lib., 

Dittm., 

Dittmar 

Linn,  or  L., 

Dun.,  • 

Dunal 

Mart., 

Ehrb., 

Ehrenberg 

Mich., 

Ellis  or  J.  B.  E,, 

J.  B.  Ellis 

M.  J.  B., 

Eng., 

English  Botany 

Mont., 

Morg., 

Fayod, 

Fayod 

Moug., 

Fl.  d., 

Flora  danica 

Miill., 

Forquignon 

Elias  Fries 

Fuckel 

Gillet 

Gillet  and  Rounreguere 
Goddard 
Gr£ville 

Harkness  and  Moore 

Hazslinsky 

Hedwig 

Hoffmann 

Holmskiold 

Hudson 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Hussey 

Jacquin 
Junghuhn 

Kalchb  renner 

Karsten 

Klotzsch 

Krombholz 

Lamark 

Langlois 

Lasch 

Lenz 

Letellier 

LeVeille 

Leysser 

Libert 

Linnaeus 

Martius 

Micheli 

Berkeley 

Montague 

Moigan 

Mougeot 

Miiller 


656 


Abbreviations  of  the  Names  of  Authors  of  Species 


Nees, 

Nees 

Schw., 

Scop., 

Osb., 

Osbeck 

Sec., 

Somm., 

Pat., 

Patouillard 

Sow., 

Paul., 

Paulet 

Sw., 

Pers., 

Persoon 

Pk., 

Peck 

T.  or  Tul., 

Pol.  or  Poll., 

Pollini 

Tod., 

Tour., 

Q.  or  Quel., 

Quelet 

Trat., 

Rab., 
Rav., 

Rabenhorst 
Ravenel 

TT.  and  E., 

Relh., 

Relhan 

Retz., 

Retzius 

Vent., 

Riess, 

Riess 

Vill., 

Rost., 

Rostkovius 

Vitt., 

Roz., 

Roze 

Roz.  and  Rich., 

Roze  and  Richon 

Wahl., 

Wall., 

Sacc., 

Saccardo 

Weinm., 

Saund.  and  Sm., 

Saunders  and  Smith 

Willd., 

Sch.,  Schaeff., 

Schaeffer 

With., 

Schr.  or  Schrad., 

Schrader 

W.  P., 

Schroet., 

Schroter 

W.  G.  S.f  t 

Schulz, 

Schulz 

Sebum., 

Schumacher      Wulf., 

Schweinitz 

Scopoli 

Secretan 

Sommerfelt 

Sowerby 

Swartz 

Tulasne 
Tode 

Tournefort 
Trattinik 

Underwood  and  Earle 

Venturi 

Villars 

Vittadini 

Wahlenberg 

Wallroth 

Weinmann 

Willdenow 

Withering 

Phillips 

Worth.  Sm., 

Worthington  Smith 
Wulfen 


42 


657 


NAMES  OF  THE  PRINCIPAL  REPORTERS  OF 
AMERICAN  SPECIES 


Alabama Lucien  M.  Underwood,  F.  S.  Earle 

(U.  andE.j. 
California H.  W.  Harkness,  Justin  P.  Moore 

(H.  and  M.),  Wm.  Phillips. 

Canada John  Dearness. 

Connecticut Wright. 

Florida Calkins. 

Georgia Berry  Benson,  H.  N.  Starnes, 

Val  W.  Starnes. 

Illinois Frederick  J.  Breendle. 

Indiana H.  I.  Miller,  Dr.  J.  R.  Weist. 

Iowa Charles  E.  Bessey,  T.  H.  Macbride. 

Kansas F.  W.  Cragin,  Elam  Bartholomew, 

W.  A.  Kellerman. 

Kentucky C.  G.  Lloyd,  A.  P.  Morgan. 

Louisiana Rev.  A.  B.  Langlois. 

Maryland Miss  Mary  E.  Banning. 

Massachusetts Charles  C.  Frost,  W.  G.  Farlow, 

James  L.  Bennett,  Charles  J.  Sprague, 

Robert  K.  Macadam, 

Julius  A.  Palmer,  Hollis  Webster. 

Minnesota Asa  Emory  Johnson. 

Mississippi U.  S.  Geological  Survey. 

Missouri William  Trelease. 

Nebraska Charles  E.  Bessey,  F.  E.  Clements, 

Webber. 

New  Brunswick A.  C.  Waghorne,  James  Fowler. 

New  England Boston  Mycological  Club. 

New  Jersey J.  B.  Ellis,  Benjamin  Everhart, 

E.  B.  Sterling,  Charles  Mcllvaine. 
New  York Charles  H.  Peck,  George  F.  Atkinson, 

John  Torrey. 
North  Carolina Rev.  M.  A.  Curtis, 

Rev.  Lewis  de  Schweinitz, 

Charles  Mcllvaine. 

Nova  Scotia Dr.  John  Somers. 

Ohio Charles  G.  Lloyd,  A.  P.  Morgan, 

W.  S.  Sullivant. 


Names  of  the  Principal  Reporters  of  American  Species 

Oregon Dr.  Harry  Lane. 

Pennsylvania Dr.  William  Herbst, 

Rev.  Lewis  de  Schweinitz, 
Charles  Mcllvaine, 
Philadelphia  Mycological  Center. 

Rhode  Island James  L.  Bennett. 

South  Carolina Dr.  H.  W.  Ravenel. 

AVest  Virginia Charles  Mcllvaine,  L.  W.  Nuttall. 

Wisconsin W.  F.  Bundy,  William  Trelease. 


659 


GLOSSARY 


A-,  prefixed  signifies  absence ;  as  aseptate,  without  septa. 
ABBREVIATIONS:  cm.  =  centimeter, 

mm.  =  millimeter. 

t*.  —  micron, 
in.  =  inch. 
/  =  inch  or  inches. 
"  —  line  (T^  inch)  or  lines, 
nov.  gen.  =  new  genus. 
n.  sp.  =  new  species. 

x  between  two  figures  signifies  by ;  2  x  4  =  2  by  4. 
-  between  two  figures  =  to ;  2-4  =  from  2  to  4. 

ABERRANT  (aberran(t-)s,  ppr.  of  aberrare,  stray  from,  <^ab,  from,  -f-  errare,  to  stray), 
differing  in  some  of  its  characters  from  the  group  in  which  it  is  placed,  said  of  a 
plant,  species,  genus. 
AB.JEC/TION  (adjecfr'o(n-),  act  of  casting  away,  abicere,  abjicere,  <^ab,  away,  +  jacere, 

throw),  throwing  off  with  force,  as  spores  or  seeds;  expulsion. 
ABJOINT'  (ab,  from,  +  junctits,  adjoining) ,  to  joint  off  or  delimit  by  septa  or  partitions. 
ABNORMAL  (abnormis,  deviating  from  a  fixed  rule,  irregular,  <a&,  from,  +  norma,  a 

rule),  not  conforming  to  the  usual  type;  irregular,  unnatural. 
ABOR'TIVE  (abortivus,  born  prematurely),  imperfect  or  wanting. 
ABRUPT'  (abmptus,  steep,  disconnected,  <a&,  off,  +  mmpere,  break),  terminating 

suddenly. 

ABSTRIC'TION  (abstrictus,  ppr.  of  abstringere,<abs,  from,  +  stringere,  bind),  separa- 
tion of  one  part  from  another  by  constriction,  especially  of  spores  from  their 
hyphse. 
ACAULES'CENT,  ACAI/LINE,  AcAu'LOSE,  AcAu'Lous  (caulis,  a  stem  or  stalk  of  a  plant) , 

having  a  very  short  stem  or  none ;  stemless. 

AC'EROSE  (acerosus,  chaffy),  narrow,  stiff  and  pointed  like  spruce  needles;  inter- 
mediate in  form  between  acicular  and  subulate. 

ACETABXULIFORM  (acetabiilum,  a  cup-shaped  vessel;  forma,  form),  cup-shaped,  hav- 
ing the  form  of  a  shallow  bowl. 

ACH'ROOUS  (Gr. — priv.  +  Gr. — color),  colorless,  achromatic. 

ACIC/ULA  (pi.  ACICUL^E)  (a  needle,  a  small  pin,  dim.  of  acus,  a  needle),  a  needle- 
shaped  spine,  prickle  or  other  body. 
ACK/ULAR,  ACK/ULATE,  A</iFORM  (acicula,  a  small  pin  or  needle),  needle-shaped, 

having  a  sharp  point  like  a  needle,  as  pine  leaves. 

AC'ROGEN  (Gr. — at  the  top,  -f  Gr. — born,  produced),  a  cryptogam  which  increases 
by  development  [of  an  apical  cell]  at  the  summit  of  an  axis,  having  a  true  stem, 
leaf-like  appendages,  etc.,  as  ferns,  mosses,  etc. 

ACROG/ENOUS  (as  acrogen  +  OMS),  (a)  produced  at  the  apex,  as  some  spores  from  the 
apex  of  a  hyphal  branch  ;  (b)  of  the  nature  of  or  pertaining  to  acrogens. 

66 1 


Glossary 

ACROP/ETAL  (Gr.— the  top,  -f  L. — petere,  seek),  developing  from  below  upward,  or 
from  the  base  toward  the  apex. 

ACU'LEATE,  ACU'LEATED  (aculeatus,  furnished  with  prickles  or  stings),  slender- 
pointed. 

ACU'LEUS  (pi.  ACU'LEI)  (a  sting,  prickle,  spine,  dim.  of  acus,  a  needle),  a  prickle. 

ACU'MINATE  (acumen,  a  point  or  extremity),  terminating  in  a  long  drawn  point. 

ACUTE'  (acittus,  sharp),  sharp,  applied  to  gills  having  sharp  edges  or  pointed  at 
either  end. 

AD'NATE  (adnatus,  grown  to,  pp.  adnasci,  to  grow  to),  growing  into  or  fast  to;  of 
gills,  e.  g.  closely  attached  to  the  stem. 

ADNEXED'  (adnexus,  connected),  of  gills  attached  to  the  stem,  but  notadnateto  it. 

ADPRESSED'  (adpressus,  pp.  of  adprimere,  <^ad,  to ;  premere,  to  press),  pressed  in  close 
contact  but  not  adherent. 

ADVENTITIOUS  (adventitius,  prop,  adventicins,  coming  from  abroad,  <^adrentus,  pp. 
of  advenire,  come  to,  arrive  at),  appearing  casually,  or  in  an  abnormal  or  unusual 
position  or  place. 

^ERI/GINOSE,  ^ERU'GINOUS  (cernginosus,  <cer?/gro,  rust  of  copper),  verdigris-green. 

AFFINITY  (affinita(t-)s,  <^afflnis,  neighboring,  related  by  marriage),  morphological 
relationship;  resemblance  in  general  plan  of  structure. 

AGAM'IC,  AG'AMOUS  (Gr. — unmarried  +  z'c),  sexless. 

AG'AMOGEN'ESIS  (Gr. — unmarried,  -f-  Gr. — production),  non-sexual  reproduction. 

AGAM'OSPORE  (Gr. — unmarried,  +  spora,  spore),  spore  formed  without  fertilization. 

AG'ARIC  (agariann,  a  kind  of  tree-fungus  used  as  tinder,  named,  according  to  Dios- 
corides,  from  the  country  of  the  Agari  in  Sarmatia,  where  this  fungus  abounded), 
any  gill-bearing  fungus ;  formerly  applied  only  to  members  of  the  genus  Agaricus. 

AGAR'ICIOID,  of  the  Mature  of  an  agaric;  mushroom-like. 

AGGLOMERATE  (ayglomeratus,  pp.  of  agglomerare,  adglomerare,  wind  into  a  ball, 
<ad,  to,  -f-  glomerare,  wind  into  a  ball),  (a)  clustered  densely,  but  not  connected 
together;  (b)  gathered  into  a  rounded  mass  or  into  a  compacted  heap  or  pile. 

AGGLU'TINATED  (agglutinatus,  pp.  adghttinare,  paste  to),  glued  to  a  surface;  grown 
together  fast ;  applied  to  fungi  that  are  firmly  attached  to  matrix 

AGGREGATE,  AGGREGATED  (aggregatus,  pp.  adgregare,  lead  to  a  flock  ;  add  to),  col- 
lected together  but  not  cohering. 

ALBU'MINOID  (albumen  +  oid),  an  organic  substance  containing  nitrogen  in  its  com- 
position, as  proteids. 

ALLAN'TOID  (Gr.—a  sausage,  +  Gr. — form),  sausage-shaped;  narrowly  oblong. 

ALLIACEOUS  (allium,  garlic,  +  aceous),  having  the  odor  of  onions. 

ALUTA'CEOUS  (alutacius,  <^aluta,  soft  leather),  having  the  quality  or  color  of  tanned 
leather;  leathery. 

ALVEO'LATE  (alveolatits,  hollowed  out,  <^alveohis,  a  small  hollow),  with  small  de- 
pressions like  a  shallow  honeycomb,  pitted. 

AMOR'PHOUS  (Gr. — without  form,  shapeless,  misshapen),  without  definite  form, 
structure  or  position. 

AM'PHIGEN  (Gr.— around,  +  Gr. — produce),  a  thallogen;  a  name  applied  to  a 
cryptogam  which  increases  by  development  of  cellular  tissue  in  all  directions  and 
not  at  the  summit  of  a  distinct  axis.  See  ACROGEN. 

AMPHIG'ENOUS  (Gr. — about;  Gr. — to  beget),  not  confined  to  one  surface,  growing 
all  around;  e.  g.,  hymenium  of  Clavaria. 

AMYG'DALINE  (amygdalinus,  ^amygdala,  almond),  resembling  the  almond. 

662 


Glossai  y 

AMYLA'CEOUS  (amylum,  starch,  +  aceous),  composed  of,  containing  or  resembling 
starch.  % 

AM'YLUM  (Gr. — starch),  starch. 

ANAL'OGY  (Gr.— equality  of  ratios,  proportion),  superficial  or  general  resemblance, 
without  structural  agreement;  physiologically  or  functionally  alike,  morphologic- 
ally unlike. 

ANAS'TOMOSING  (Gr.— an  opening,  outlet,  discharge),  united  by  running  together 
irregularly;  intercommunication  of  vessels,  lines,  gills  or  veins  with  each  other. 

ANGIOCAR'POUS  (Gr. — a  capsule,  case,  vessel  of  any  kind),  having  the  hymeninm de- 
veloped in  a  closed  receptacle. 

ANGUS'TATE  (anguslatus,  pp.  of  angustere,  straiten,  narrow,  <^angustus,  narrow), 
narrow. 

AN'NUAL  (annualis,  a  year  old,  <a/w«s,  a  year),  completing  growth  in  one  year  or 
season. 

AN'NULAR  (annularis,  relating  to  a  ring,  <^annulus,  a  ring),  ring-shaped. 

AN'NULATE  (See  ANNULAR),  having  a  ring. 

AN'XULUS  (See  ANNULAR),  the  ring  on  the  stem  of  a  mushroom  formed  by  the  sepa- 
ration of  the  veil  from  the  margin  of  the  cap. 

ANOM'ALOUS  (anomaly  s,  irregular,  uneven),  deviating  from  a  general  rule,  method 
or  analogy. 

ANOM'ALY  (anomalia,  irregularity,  unevenness),  any  deviation  from  the  usual  char- 
acter. 

ANTE'RIOR  (as  if  from  anterus,  <^ante,  before),  in  front;  denotes  a  position  on  the 
under  side  of  the  pileus  adjacent  to  the  margin;  thus  the  end  of  a  lamellse  next 
the  margin  is  called  the  anterior  end. 

APARAPH'YSATE  (a  +  G-r. — an  offshoot),  without  paraphyses. 

A'PEX  (pi.  APICES)  {apex,  the  extreme  end),  in  mushrooms  the  extremity  of  the 
stem  nearest  the  gill ;  the  end  furthest  from  the  base  or  point  of  attachment. 

AP'ICAL  (apex,  the  extreme  end,  point),  relating  to  the  apex  or  top. 

AP'ICES,  plural  of  apex. 

APIC'ULATE  (apiculatus,  dim.  of  apex,  a  point),  terminating  in  a  short,  abrupt  point. 

APIC'ULUS  (pi.  APIC'ULI)  (dim.  of  apex  (apic-),  a  point),  a  short,  sharp  point. 

APOTHE'CIUM  (pi.  APOTHE'CIA),  (Gr. — a  storehouse),  in  Ascomycetes,  an  open  cup- 
shaped  fructification  with  the  hymenium  on  its  upper  concave  surface ;  cup. 

APPSNDIC'ULATE  (appendicnlatus  <^appendicnla,  appendix,  an  appendage),  hanging 
in  small  fragments;  having  an  unusual  appendage. 

AP'PLANATE  (applanatus  <ad,  to,  +  planus,  flat),  flattened  out  or  horizontally  ex- 
panded. 

APPRESSED'  (appressus,  adpressus,  pp.  of  adprimere,  press  to,  <ad,  to,  -f-  premere, 
press),  applied  closely  to  the  surface  or  to  each  other;  adpressed. 

APPROXIMATE  (approximates,  pp.  approximare  <^ad,  to;  proximare,  to  approach),  of 
gills  which  approach  but  do  not  reach  the  stem. 

A'QUEOUS  (as  if  aqneus,  <_aqua,  water),  watery;  nearly  colorless;  hyaline. 

ARACH'NOID  (Gr. — a  spider's  web;  -{-forma,  form),  like  a  cobweb. 

ARBO'REAL,  ARBOR/ICAL  (arborens,  pertaining  to  trees),  tree-inhabiting. 

AR'CUATE  (arcuatus,  pp.  arcitare,  to  bend  like  a  bow,  <arcws,  a  bow),  bow-shaped. 

ARENACEOUS,  ARENA'RIOUS,  AREXNOSE  (arenaceus,  harenaceus,  sandj',  <aren«,  harena, 
sand),  sandy;  growing  in  sandy  places. 

ARE'OLATB  (areola,  dim.  of  area,  a  plot),  divided  into  little  areas  or  patches. 

663 


Glossary 

ARGILLACEOUS  (argillaceus  <argi1la,  white  clay),  resembling  or  like  clay. 

AR'ID  (aridus,  dry,  <orere,  be  dry),  dry. 

ARIS'TATE  (aristatus  <amta,  awn  or  beard),  having  a  pointed  beard-like  process  as 

in  barley. 
ARMIL/LA  (armilla,  a  bracelet,  armlet,  hoop,  ring,  dim.  prob.  of  armus,  shoulder),  a 

plaited  frill  hanging  from  the  apex  of  the  stem. 
ARTE'RIOLE  (arteriola,  dim.  of  arteria,  artery),  a  small  artery. 
ARTICULATE  (articulatus,  pp.  of  articulare,  divide  into  joints  or  members,  <^articulus, 

a  joint,  etc.),  jointed. 
ASCENDING  (ad,  to,  -f-  scandere,  to  climb),  inclining  or  growing  upward;  applied 

to  a  lamella  where  its  edge  forms  a  line  ascending  in  the  direction  from  the  mar- 
gin of  pileus  toward  the  apex  of  the  stipe;  as  in  conical  shaped  pilei ;  applied  to 

the  partial  veil  when  in  the  young  stage  its  stem-attachment  is  below  the  level  of 

its  marginal  one;  in  this  case  a  ring  formed  from  it  is  called  inferior. 
As'ci  (Gr.—a,  leathern  bag,  bladder),  spore  cases  of  certain  mushrooms,  in  which  a 

definite  number  of  spores  are  enclosed  in  a  sac. 
ASCIF'EROUS,  ASCOPH'OROUS  (ascus  -f-  ferre,  bear),  ascus-bearing. 
ASCIG'EROUS  (ascus  -f  gerere,  bear),  bearing  asci. 
AS'COCARP  (Gr. — a  bag,  -f  a  fruit),  in  Ascomycetes,  sporocarp  producing  asci  and 

ascospores. 

ASCOG'ENOUS  (Gr. — a  bag,  +  producing),  producing  asci. 
ASCOMYCE'TES  (Gr. — a  bag,  -f-  Gr.—a,  mushroom),  group  of  fungi  in  which  the  spores 

are  produced  within  little  sack-like  cells,  called  asci. 
ASCOMYCE'TOUS,  of  or  pertaining  to  the  ascomycetes. 
AS'COPHORE  (Gr. — bearing  wine-skins;  Gr.— a  bag),  sporophore  bearing  an  ascus  or 

asci. 

ASCOPH'OROUS,  bearing  an  ascus  or  asci. 
AS'COSPORES  (Gr. — a  bag,  +  Gr. — seed),  one  of  a  number  of  spores  formed  within 

an  ascus. 
As'cus  (pi.  As'ci)  (Gr. — a  leather  bag,  bottle,  bladder,  etc.),  microscopic  sack-like 

cells  in  which  spores,  generally  eight  in  number,  are  developed. 
ASEP/TATE  (Gr. — without,  -f  L. — septum,  a  fence),  without  partitions  or  septa,  said 

of  hyphae  and  spores. 
ASH  COLOR  (See  CINEREOUS). 
AS'PERATE,  AS'PERATED  (asperatus,  pp.  of  asperare,  roughen,  jasper,  rough),  having 

a  rough,  uneven  surface. 

AS'TICHOUS  (astichus,  <a  -f  Gr. — row),  not  arranged  in  rows. 
ASTO'MATOUS  (astomatus,  mouthless),  without  a  mouth  or  aperture;  without  stomata. 
AS'TOMOUS  (astomus,  mouthless^),  without  a  stoma  or  mouth. 
AT'OMATE  (Gr. — an  atom),  sprinkled  with  atoms  or  minute  particles. 
A'TRO  (ater,  black),  in  composition  "black,"  or  "dark." 
A'TROPURPU'REOUS  (ater,  black,  +  purpura,  purple  dye,  -f-  ous),  dark  purple. 
A'TROSANGUIN'EOUS   (ater,  black;   sanguineus,  blood,  bloody),   dark  purple;   dark 

blood  color. 
ATTENUATE  (attenuatus,  pp.  of  attenuare,  make  thin,  weaken,  lessen,  <«<?,  to,  -f- 

temiare,  make  thin),  becoming  gradually  narrowed  or  smaller. 
AURANTIXACEOUS  (aurcmtium,  an  orange),  orange-colored. 
AUR'EOUS  (aureus,  of  gold,  golden,  <^aurum,  gold),  golden-yellow;  yellow  with  a 

slight  tinge  of  red. 

664 


Glossary 

AURIC'ULATE,  AURIFORM  (auriculatus,  <^auricula,  the  external  ear),  ear-shaped. 

AUTO-BASID'IUM  (actus,  an  act,  dim.  of  Gr. — a  base,  +  basidium),  an  unseptated  ba- 
sidium  giving  rise  at  the  apex  to  four  slender  sterigmata  (sometimes  fewer,  some- 
times more),  each  bearing  a  spore. 

AUTONOMOUS  (Gr. — independent;  of  one's  own  freewill;  Gr. — self,  +  Gr. — hold 
sway),  said  of  plants  that  are  perfect  and  complete  in  themselves;  not  forming 
part  of  a  cycle ;  independent. 

Ax'is  (axle,  axis,  pole  of  the  earth),  the  central  line  of  growth;  stipe,  stalk,  etc. 

AZO'NATE  (Gr. — without,  +  L. — zona,  a  zone),  without  zones  or  circular  bands  of 
different  color. 

BA'DJOUS  (badius,  bay),  bay;  reddish-brown;  chestnut  color. 

BAND,  a  broad  bar  of  color. 

BANDED,  marked  with  bands. 

BARBED  (barba,  beard),  furnished  with  barbs,  fibrils  or  hairs. 

BASE  (bassus,  low,  short,  thick),  the  extremity  opposite  to  the  apex ;  the  part  of  an 
organ  nearest  its  point  of  attachment ;  applied  to  lamellae ;  (a)  the  line  of  at- 
tachment to  the  pileus  (as  connected  by  veins  at  the  base)  ;  (b)  sometimes  used 
to  define  the  end  attached  to  the  stipe  (broad  or  reticulate  at  the  base). 

BASID'IOGENET'IC  (Gr. — a  base  +  genesis),  produced  upon  a  basidium. 

BASID'IOMYCE'TES  (basidium  +  Gr. — a  mushroom),  group  of  fungi  which  has  its 
spores  produced  upon  basidia. 

BASID'IOPHORE  (basidium  +  Gr. — to  bear),  a  sporophore  bearing  basidia. 

BASID'IOSPORE  (basidium  -f-  Gr. — spora,  spore;  seed),  spore  acrogenously  abjointed 
upon  a  basidium. 

BASIDIUM  (pi.  BASID'IA),  mother  cells  in  the  hymenium  of  basidiomycetes  formed 
on  the  end  of  a  hyphal  branch  and  abstricting  spores ;  the  spores  are  generally 
four  in  number,  each  on  a  sterigma,  but  sometimes  more,  sometimes  fewer,  and 
sometimes  sessile.  See  AUTO-BASIDIUM  and  PROTO-BASIDIUM. 

BASIP'ETAL  (basis,  a  base,  +  petere,  seek,  +  al)>  in  the  direction  of  the  base. 

BAY  (badius),  a  very  rich  dark-reddish  chestnut;  badious. 

BI-,  prefix,  meaning  twice. 

BIBULOUS  (bibulus,  <^bibere,  drink),  having  the  quality  of  absorbing  or  imbibing 
moisture. 

BICIP'ETAL,  BICIP/ITOUS  (biceps  (bicipit-),  two-headed,  +  al),  in  botany  divided  into 
two  parts  at  the  top  or  bottom. 

BI'FID  (bifidus,  forked,  <6i,  two,  +  findere,  cleave,  divide),  cleft  or  divided  into  two 
parts. 

BIFUR'CATED  (bifurcus,  two-forked),  divided  into  two  forks  or  branches  as  in  the 
gills  of  certain  Agarics. 

BILOC'ULAR  (bi,  two,  -f  loculus,  a  cell,  <Zocr<s,  a  place),  two-celled. 

BIOG'ENOUS  (bi,  two,  -f  genus,  <^gena,  born),  growing  on  living  organisms. 

BISE'RIATE,  BISE'RIAL  (bi,  two,  +  seriate),  arranged  in  two  rows. 

BIS'TRE  (fuligineus),  a  dark  brown  color  somewhat  more  reddish  thaa  sepia,  but 
much  less  so  than  burnt  umber. 

BOOT'ED,  applied  to  the  stem  of  a  mushroom  when  enclosed  in  a  sheath  or  voiva; 
peronate. 

Boss,  a  knob  or  short  rounded  protuberance ;  umbo. 

BOSSED,  BULI/ATE  (bulla,  a  bubble),  furnished  with  a  boss,  stud  or  umtoo. 

665 


Glossary 

BRANCHED  (brancha,  claw),  dividing  from  the  sides;  also  styled  furcate  and  forked  ; 

ramifying,  diverging. 
BRICK,  trade-term  for  a  mass  of  mushroom  spawn,  in  dimensions  the  size  of  a  brick 

of  masonry. 
BRICK  RED  (testaceus,  lateritius,  rutilus),  a  dull  brownish-red  color  like  the  color 

of  burnt  bricks. 

BROAD,  wide  or  deep  vertically,  not  narrow. 
BROCCOLI  COLOR,  the  color  of  a  variety  of  cabbage. 
BUFF  (luteus,  Int-poJua),  a  light  dull  brownish-yellow,  like  the  color  of  dressed  buck- 

skin or  chamois. 
BULBOUS  (bulbusus,  <ibulbns,  bulb),  said  of  the  stem  of  a  mushroom  when  it  has  a 

bulb-like  swelling  at  the  base. 
BYSSA'CEXDUS,  BYS'SOID  (as  if  byssaceus,  <  byssus),  resembling  or  consisting  of  fine 

filaments  like  the  flax  or  cotton. 
BYS'SUS  (Gfr.  —  originally  a  fine  yellowish  flax),  an  old  name  for  the  filamentous 

myceliiim  of  certain  fungi. 


CERU'LEOS  (cceruleus,  dark-blue,  dark  -green,  dark  colored),  light  blue; 

sky-blue. 

C^/sious  (O«GSM<S,  bluish-gray),  pale,  bluish-gray;  lavender  colored. 
C^ES'PITOSEV  C^ES'PITOUS,  CES/PiTOSE  (ccespitostts,  <^ccesposns,  a  clump  of  turf),  grow- 

ing in  tufts  or  clumps. 

CALCA'REOUS  (calcarius,  pertaining  to  lime,  <caZ?/z,  lime),  chalky,  chalk-like. 
CALLOS'ITY,  CAL'LUS  (callosita,  <^callosus,  callous),  a  hard  or  thickened  spot  or  pro- 

tuberance. 
CALYP'TRA  (Grr.  —  a  veil,  hence  calyptra,  a  hood),  applied  e.  g.  to  the  portion  of  the 

volva  covering  the  pileus. 
CAMPAN'ULATE  (campana,  a  bell),  bell-shaped. 

CANALICULATE  (canaliculus,  a  little  channel),  channeled,  furrowed. 
CAN'CELLATE  (cancellatus,   pp.  of  canceUarc,  make  like  or  provide  with  a  lattice), 
•  latticed,  marked  both  longitudinally  and  transversely  with  an  open  network. 
CAN'DIDOUS  (candidus}  ,  shining  white. 
CANES'CENT  (canescen(t-)s,  pp.  of  canescere,  <^camts,  white  or  hoary),  having  whitish, 

grayish  or  hoary  pubescence. 

CAP,  pileus;  the  expanded,  umbrella-like  receptacle  of  the  common  mushroom. 
CAP'ILLARY  (capillaris,  pertaining  to  the  hair,  <^capillns,  the  hair),  pertaining  to  or 

resembling  hair. 

CAPIL^IFORM  (capilltts,  hair,  -\-fomna,  form),  in  the  shape  or  form  of  a  hair. 
CAPILLIT'IUM  (capillus,  hair),  spore-bearing  threads,  filling  as  a  packing  material 

the  fruiting  part  of  certain  fungi,  variable  in  thickness  and  color,  sometimes  con- 

tinuous with  the  sterile  base,  sometimes  free,  dense,  persistent  or  lax  and  evanes- 

cent, often  branched  ;  found  in  the  Lycoperdons. 
CAPITATE  (capitutus,  having  a  head,  <^caput,  head),  having  a  head,  or  the  form  of  a 

head. 

CAPIT'ULUM  (capitulum,  a  small  head,  <_caput,  head),  a  small  head. 
CAPSULE  (capsula,  a  small  box  or  chest,  dim.  of  capsa,  a  box),  an  enclosing  envel- 

ope usually  thin  and  membranous. 
CARBONACEOUS  (carbon  -j-  aceous),  rigid,  blackish  and  brittle;  like  or  composed  of 

carbon  or  coaly  matter. 

666 


Glossary 

CAR'DIAC  (cardiacus,  heart),  of  or  pertaining  to  the  heart;  pertaining  to  the  eso- 
phageal  portion  of  the  stomach,  opposed  to  pyloric. 

CA'RIOUS  (cariosus,  <  canes,  decay),  decayed. 

CARMINE  (carmineus,  coccineus),  a  very  pure  and  intense  crimson,  the  purest  of  the 
cochineal  colors. 

CAR'NEOUS  (carneus,  <^caro,  flesh),  fleshy;  flesh-colored. 

CAR'NOSE  (carnosus,  fleshy,  <Cc«ro,  flesh),  fleshy. 

CARTILAGINOUS  (cartilaginosus,  <cartilago,  gristle),  firm  and  tough;  gristly. 

CASTA'NEOUS  (castaneits) ,  chestnut-colored;  chestnut  color.  (Burnt  umber -f- vermil- 
ion.) 

CAU'DATE  (caudatus,  <c««da,  a  tail),  having  a  tail-like  appendage. 

CAULIC/OLOUS  (dim.  of  caulis,  a  stalk),  growing  on  herbaceous  stems. 

CELL  (cella,  a  small  room,  barn,  etc.),  (a)  a  small  cavity,  compartment  or  hollow 
place;  (b)  a  mass  of  protoplasm  of  various  size  and  shape,  generally  microscopic, 
with  or  without  a  nucleus  and  enclosing  wall,  the  fundamental  form-element  of 
every  organized  body. 

CELLULAR  (cellula,  dim.  of  a  cell,  -f-  ar),  composed  of  cells. 

CELL'ULOSE  (cellula,  a  cell),  the  essential  constituent  of  the  primary  wall-membrane 
of  cells,  a  secretion  from  the  contained  protoplasm;  allied  to  starch,  sugar  ami 
inulin.  Chemical  formula,  C6H10O5. 

CENTIMETER,  CM.  (centum,  a  hundred,  +  metre,  meter),  in  the  metric  system  a 
measure  of  length,  the  hundredth  part  of  a  meter,  equal  to  0.3937  of  an  English 
inch. 

CENTRIF'UGALLY  (centrum,  the  center,  -\-fugere,  flee),  from  the  center  outwards. 

CENTRIP'ETALLY  (centrum,  the  center,  -{-  petere,  seek,  move  toward),  from  the  cir- 
cumference toward  the  center. 

CE'P-SFORM  (cepa,  an  onion;  forma,  form),  onion-shaped. 

CERA'CEOUS  (ceraceus,  <cm?,  wax),  wax-like,  waxy. 

CEREB'RIFORM  (cerebrum,  the  brain,  -\-forma,  form),  brain-shaped. 

CEK'VINE  (cervinus,  <^cervus,  deer),  of  a  deep  tawny  or  fawn  color. 

CHAN'NELED  (canalis,  a  water-pipe,  canal),  hollowed  out  like  a  gutter;  canaliculate 

CHARTA'CEOUS  (chartaceus,  <^charta,  paper),  like  paper. 

CHESTNUT  COLOR  (castaneus,  spadiceus),  a  rich  dark  reddish-brown  of  a  slightly 
purplish  cast.  (Vermilion  -f-  burnt  umber.) 

CHLAM'YDOSPORES  (Gr. — mantle,  -+-  Gr. — seed)  (encased  spores),  one  of  a  number 
of  thick-walled  resting  spores  usually  formed  in  rows  from  the  breaking  up  of  the 
hyphse  into  spherical  bead-like  cells ;  on  germination  they  may  develop  sporangia 
or  conidiophores. 

CHLOROPHYLL  (chlorophyllum,  Gr. — yellowish-green;  Gr.=L.,  folium,  a  leaf),  the 
green  coloring  matter  of  plants. 

CHLOROSIS  (Gr. — greenness,  paleness),  loss  of  color,  etiolation. 

CHOCOLATE-BROWN  (chocolatinus~) ,  a  rich  dark  reddish-brown  color,  like  the  exterior 
glazed  surface  of  a  cake  of  chocolate. 

CHROME-GREEN  (chromium-viridis),  a  dull  green  color,  nearly  intermediate  between 
malachite  green  and  sage  green. 

CHROME-YELLOW,  a  deep  yellow. 

CIL^A  (pi.  of  CILI'UM),  (cilium,  an  eye-lid),  marginal  hair-like  processes. 

CILXIATE  (cilium,  an  eye-lid),  fringed  with  hair-like  processes. 

667 


Glossary 

CINEREOUS,  CINERA'CEOUS  (cinereus,  cineraceus) ,  ash-gray;  a  light  bluish-gray  color, 

lighter  than  plumbeous. 

CIN'NABARINE  (cinnabar,  vermilion,  +  ine),  cinnabar-colored;  bright  red;  vermilion. 
CINNAMO'MEOUS,    CINNAMON  (cinnamomeus,   cinnamominus) ,  a  light  reddish-brown 

color,  like  the  inner  surface  of  cinnamon  bark. 

CINNAMON-RUFOUS  (cinnamomeo-rufus) ,  rufous  with  a  tinge  of  cinnamon.     (Burnt  si- 
enna +  raw  umber  -f-  light  red  +  white.) 
CIR'CINATE  (circinatus,  pp.  circinare,  to  make  round),  disposed  in  a  circle;  circular, 

coiled  like  a  shepherd's  crook. 
CIRCUMSCIS'SILE  (circumscissus,  pp.  of  circumscindere,  cut  about),  opening  or  dividing 

by  a  transverse  circular  line;  applied  to  a  mode  of  dehiscence  in  some  fruits. 
CITRINE,  CITXREOUS,  CIT'RINOUS  (citrus,  a  lemon  or  citron),  lemon-yellow  colored. 
CLATH'RATE,  CLATH'ROID  (clathratus,  Gr. — a  lattice),  latticed. 
CLA'VATE,  CLAV/IFORM  (clavatus,  <clava,  a  club),  club-shaped,  gradually  thickened 

towards  the  top. 
CLAY  COLOR  (lutescens,  luteolus,  lutosus,  argillaceus) ,  a  dull  light  brownish-yellow 

color,  nearly  intermediate  between  yellow  ocher  and  Isabella  color. 
CLEIS'TOCARP,  CLIS'TOCARP  (Gr.— that  can  be  closed,  +  fruit),  an  ascocarp  which  is 

entirely  closed,  and  from  which  the  spores  escape  by  its  final  rupture. 
CLOSE,  packed  closely  side  by  side ;  said  of  lamellae  when  they  are  close  together ; 

also  styled  crowded. 

COALES/CENT  (coalescens,  ppr.  of  coalescere,  grow  together),  growing  together  of  sim- 
ilar parts;  coherent. 
COCH'LEATE,  CocHLEAR'iFORM  (cochleatus,  cocleatus,  spiral,  <^cochlea,  coclea,  a  snail's 

shell),  shaped  like  a  snail  shell. 
COHE'RENT  (coherens,  ppr.  of  cohcerere,  stick  together,  cohere),  sticking  together  of 

similar  parts;  sometimes  used  in  the  sense  of  connate. 

COLLEN/CHYMA  ( Gr. — glue,  -f-  Gr. — an  infusion),  in  Geaster,  etc.,  a  cartilaginous- 
gelatinous  tissue,  hygroscopic  and  with  great  capacity  for  swelling,  forming  one 
of  the  inner  layers  of  the  peridium ;  its  swelling  at  maturity  causes  the  outer 
peridium  to  burst  outward  in  a  stellate  manner. 

COLLIC'ULOSE  (colliculus,  a  little  hill,  dim.  of  collis,  a  hill),  covered  with  little  hill- 
like  elevations. 

COL'LOID  (Gr. — glue,  +  semblance),  like  glue  or  jelly. 

COLUMEL'LA  (columella,  a  little  column),  a  sterile  tissue  rising  column-like  in  the 
midst  of  the  capillitium,  serving  as  a  point  of  insertion  for  the  threads  which 
connect  it  with  the  peridium  in  the  form  of  a  network.     (In  Lycoperdacese.) 
CO'MATE,  CO'MOSE,  CO'MOUS  (comatus,  hairy,  <coma,  a  hair),  furnished  with  a  tuft 

of  silky  hairs;  hairy. 

COM'PLANATE  (complanatus ,  pp.  of  complanare,  make  plane  or  plain),  flattened  ver- 
tically to  a  level  surface  above  and  below. 
COMPRESSED/  (compressa,  fern,  of  compressns,  pp.  of  comprimere,  compress),  flattened 

laterally. 

CONCATENATE  (con,  together,  +  catenare,  link,  chain,  <ca«ena,  a  chain),  linked  to- 
gether in  a  chain. 

CONCAVE'  (concavits,  hollow,  arched,  vaulted ;  com,  together,  +  cams,  hollow),  hav- 
ing a  rounded,  incurved  surface. 

CONCENTRIC  (con,  together;  centrum,  center),  having  a  common  center,  aa  a  series 
of  rings,  one  within  another. 

668 


Glossary 

CONCEP'TACLE  (conceptaculum,  <^concipere,  pp.  conceptus,  contain,  conceive),  a  closed 

sporiferous  body. 

CON'CHIFORM  (concha,  a  shell,  +  forma,  shape),  shell-shaped,  resembling  a  clam- 
shell in  shape. 

CONCOLORED,  CoNcoi/OROus  (concolor,  of  one  color),  of  a  uniform  color. 
CONCRES'CENT  (concrescentia,  <^concrescere ,  grow  together),  growing  together. 
CONCRETE  (concretus,  grown  together,  solid),  coalescent;  united  in  a  coagulated, 

condensed  or  solid  mass ;  grown  together. 
CONFER'VOID  (conferva,  a  name  applied  to  certain  of  the  Algse,  sea-weeds;  -j-  Gr. — 

form),  like  a  Conferva,  from  the  finely  branched  threads;  loose  and  filamentous. 
CON'FLUENT  (con,  together,  +  &r. — flue-re,  flow),  blended  into  one. 
CON'GENER  (congener,  of  the  same  race,  <co»,  together,  -f  genus  (gener),  race),  of 

the  same  genus  or  kind. 
CONGENERIC,  CONGENERICAL,  CONGENEROUS  (congener,  of  the  same  race,  -f-  ic,  ous), 

belonging  to  or  nearly  allied  to  the  same  genus. 
CONGENERIC  (con,  together,  -f  G-r. — generation,  seed),  produced  at  the  same  time  or 

by  the  same  cause;  alike  in  origin. 
CONGLOMERATE  (conylomeratus,  pp.  of  conglomerare,  roll   together,  heap  together, 

<co?n,  together,  +  glomerare,  gather  into  a  ball),  densely  clustered;    gathered 

into  a  round  mass;  composed  of  heterogeneous  materials. 
CONGLU'TINATE  (conglutinatus,  pp.  of  conglutinare,  glue  together,  <^com,  together,  -j- 

glutinare,  glue),  as  if  glued  together. 
CONID'IAL  (conidium  -f-  al),  pertaining  to  or  of  the  nature  of  a  conidium  or  conidia; 

characterized  by  the  formation  of  conidia ;  bearing  conidia. 

CONIDIIF'EROUS',  CONIDIOPH'OROUS  (conidium,  dust,  -{-  ferre,  bear),  bearing  conidia. 
CONID'IOPHORE    (conidium,  -f  Gr. — bearing),  a  hypha  from  which   are   abstricted 

conidia. 
CONID/IUM  (pi.  CONIDIA),  a  non-sexual  spore  formed  singly  or  in  chains  by  abstric- 

tion  from  the  ends  of  hyphse  or  hyphal  branches.     See  under  SPORE. 
CO'NIFER  (conifer,  cone-bearing,  <^conns,  a  cone,  -\-ferre,  bear),  a  cone-bearing  tree. 
CONJUGATION  (conjugatio(n-},    a  joining,  entomological  relationship,  <^conjttgare, 

pp.  conjugates,  join),  union  of  two  cells  to  form  a  spore. 
CON'NATE  (connatus,  pp.  connasci,  <con,  together;  nascor,  to  be  born),  united  by 

growing  together  from  the  first. 

CONXNIVENT  (conniven^t-)s,  coniven(t-)s,  ppr.  of  connivere,  conivere,  wink  at;  over- 
look), having  an  inward  direction,  converging,  coming  in  contact,  said  of  a  cup 

whose  sides  curve  inward  and  meet  at  the  margin. 
CONSTANT  (constan(t-~)s,  steady,  firm,  <^com,  together,  -)-  stare),  always  present  or 

always  in  the  same  condition. 
CONSTRICTED  (constrict  +  ed),  contracted  so  as  to  be  smaller  in  one  or  more  places 

than  in  others. 

CONTEXT  (contextus,  pp.  of  contexere,  join  or  weave  together),  texture;  substance. 
CONTIGUOUS  (contifjuus,  touching),  near,  or  in  contact. 

CONTINUOUS  (continuus,  joined,  <^continere,  hold  together),  without  a  break;  applied 
/  to  spores  or  hyphse  that  have  no  septa. 
CONTORTED  (contortus,  pp.  of  contorquere,  twist,  <^com,  together;  torquere,  twist), 

distorted,  twisted,  crooked  or  deformed. 
CONVEX   (comoexus,   vaulted,   arched,   convex,   concave),   elevated  and  regularly 

rounded ;  forming  the  segment  of  a  sphere  or  nearly  so. 

669 


Glossary 

CONVEX'O-PLANE,  between  convex  and  flat. 

CONVOLUTE  (convolutus,  pp.  of  convolvere,  roll  together),  covered  with  irregular  con- 
vexities and  depressions  resembling  the  convolutions  of  the  brain. 

COR'DATE  (cordatus,  heart-shaped),  heart-shaped. 

CORIA'CEOUS  (coriaceus,  <cori?im,  leather),  of  a  leathery  texture. 

COR'NEOUS  (corneus,  horny),  of  a  horny  texture. 

COR'RUGATED  (corrugatus,  pp.  corrugare,  <con,  together,  -f  rugare,  to  wrinkle), 
wrinkled ;  contracted ;  puckered ;  having  a  wrinkled  appearance. 

COR'TEX  (cortex,  cork),  literally  bark ;  a  covering  of  cells  enclosing  the  axis;  cor- 
tical layer;  the  outer  rind-like  layer  or  layers  of  some  fungus  bodies. 

COR'TICAL  (cortex  (cortic),  bark,  rind,  -+-  al),  of  or  pertaining  to  the  cortex. 

CORTICATE,  CORTICATED  (corticatus,  pp.  adj.,  <^cortex,  bark),  furnished  with  bark- 
like  covering ;  having  a  rind. 

CORTINA  (cortina,  a  veil  of  spider-web  structure  rupturing  at  or  near  the  stem ;  ap- 
plied to  the  peculiar  veil  of  the  genus  Cortinarius. 

COR^INATE  (cortinatus,  < cortina,  a  curtain),  provided  with  or  pertaining  to  a  cor- 
tina. 

COS'TATE  (costatus,  ribbed,  <costa,  rib),  having  a  ridge  or  ridges  as  if  ribbed. 

COST.E  (pi.  of  costa,  a  rib,  a  side),  ribs  or  primary  veins  (as  in  a  leaf). 

CRATE'RA  (crater,  a  bowl),  a  cup-shaped  receptacle. 

CRATER'IFORM  (crater,  a  crater,  -\-forma,  shape),  basin  or  saucer-shaped;  having 
the  form  of  a  crater. 

CREAM  COLOR  (cremeus),  a  light  pinkish-yellow  color  like  cream. 

CRE'NATE  (crenatus,  <crena,  a  notch),  notched  at  the  edge, indented,  scalloped:  The 
notches  are  blunt  or  rounded,  not  sharp  as  in  a  serrated  edge. 

CREN'ULATE,  CRENELATED  (crenulatus) ,  same  as  crenate. 

CRETA'CEOUS  (cretaceus,  chalky,  <cref«,  chalk),  chalky;  of  the  color  of  chalk. 

CRIB'RATE,  CRIB'RIFORM  (cribrum,  a  sieve,  +  forma,  shape),  sieve-like;  perforated 
with  small  holes. 

CRIB'ROSE  (cribrosus,  <cn'on«n,  a  sieve),  pierced  with  holes;  perforated. 

CRIMSON  (carmineus,  sanguineus,  sanguineo-ruber) ,  blood-red,  the  color  of  the  cruder 
sorts  of  carmine. 

CRI'NITE  (crinitus,  haired,  pp.  of  crinire,  provide  with  hair,  <cn'm's,  hair),  having  a 
tuft  of  long,  weak  hairs. 

CRISP,  CRISPED,  CRIS'PATE  (crispus,  curled,  wavy,  uneven,  tremulous),  having  the 
surface,  especially  near  the  margin,  strongly  and  finely  undulate,  as  the  leaves  of 
the  Savoy  cabbage. 

CRIS'TATE  (cristatus,  <cn'sto,  a  crest),  crested;  bearing  a  ridge,  mane  or  tuft  on  the 
top. 

CRI/CIATE,  CRU'CIFORM  (cruciatus,  pp.  of  cruciare,  torture),  having  the  form  of  a 
cross  with  equal  arms. 

CRUSTA^EOUS  (criista,  a  crust,  +  aceous),  of  hard  and  brittle  texture. 

CRYPTOGAM  (O. — hidden,  -f  marriage),  a  plant  of  the  order  Cryptogamia. 

CRYPTOGA^IIA  (Gr. — hidden,  -f  marriage),  flowerless  plants  propagated  by  spores. 

CRYPTOGXAMY  (Gr. — hidden,  -f  marriage),  obscure  fructification  as  in  plants  of  the 
class  Cryptogamia. 

CULM  (culmus,  a  stalk),  the  stem  of  grasses. 

CI/NEATE,  CUNEIFORM  (cuneatus,  pp.  of  cuneare,  wedge,  make  wedge-shaped,  <cw- 
neus,  a  wedge),  wedge-shaped. 

670 


Glossary 

CUP  (cupa,  a  tub,  cask,  vat),  the  concave  fruiting  body  of  angiocarpous  lichens  and 

discomycetous  fungi;  the  peridium  of  a  clustering  fungus.    See  APOTHECIUM. 
CU'PREOUS  (cnpreus,  of  copper,  -^cuprum,  copper),  copper-colored. 
CU'PULAR,  CUMULATE  (a  little  cup,  dim.  of  cupa,  a  cup),  cup-shaped. 
CU'PCLE,  CU'PULA  (a  little  cup,  dim.  of  cupa,  a  cup),  a  receptacle  shaped  like  a  little 

cup,  as  in  Peziza. 
CURLED,  same  as  CRISP. 

CURT  (curtus,  clipped,  broken,  shortened),  short. 
CUR'TAIX  (cortina,  a  small  croft,  screen,  etc.),  same  as  cortina. 
CUS'PIDATE  (cuspidatus,  pp.  cuspidare,  <^cuspis,  a  point,  spear),  with  a  sharp  spear- 
like  point.  I 
CU'TICLE  (cuticula,  dim.  of  cutis,  the  skin),  a  distinct  skin-like  layer;  cutis,  cuticle, 

pellicle  and  epidermis  have  been  used  indiscriminately  to  describe  the  separable 

or  inseparable  skin-like  layer  sometimes  present  on  the  outer  surface  of  the  pileus 

and  stem  ;  of  these  terms,  cuticle  is  used  most  commonly. 
CU'TIS.     See  CUTICLE. 

CYA'NEOUS  (cyaneux,  dark  blue),  bright  blue;  azure;  lapis-lazuli  blue. 
CYAXO'SIS  (Gr. — dark -blue,  +  osis),  in  pathology  a  blue  or  more  or  less  livid  color  of 

the  surface   of  the  body,  due  to  imperfect  circulation  and  oxygenation  of  the 

Mood. 
OY'ATIIIFORM  (cyathits,  a  cup;  forma,  form),  cup-shaped,  shape  of  a  drinking  glass 

slightly  widened  at  the  top. 
'CYLIX'DRIC,   CYLINDRICAL  (cyUndrieu»,  cylinder),   cylinder-shaped;    applied  to  a 

branch  or  stem  having  the  same  or  nearly  the  same  diameter  throughout,  and 

its  cross-section  circular. 

CYM'B.EFORM,  CYM'BIFORM  (cymba,  a  boat,  -{-forma,  shape),  boat-shape. 
CYST  (cystis,  the  bladder,  bag,  pouch),  a  bladder-like  cell  or  cavity. 
CYSTID'IUM    (pi.  CYSTID'IA)   (Gr. — the  bladder,  +  the  dim.  termination),   sterile 

bladder  cells  of  the  hymenium,  generally  larger  than  the  basidia  cells  between 

which  and  with  which  they  are  formed. 

DASH,  -,  between  two  figures  =  to;  from  2  to  4. 

DAUGHTER-CELL,  any  cell  when  mentioned  in  relation  to  the  one  (mother-cell)  from 
which  it  is  derived. 

DEAI/BATE  (dealbatus,  pp.  of  dealbare,  whiten,  Avhite-wash,  etc.,  <de  -f  albare, 
whiten),  as  if  white-washed;  covered  with  very  white  opaque  powder. 

DECID'UOUS  (deciduus,  that  falls  clown;  <^decidere,<de,  down,  +  cedere,  to  fall),  fall- 
ing off  at  maturity  or  at  the  end  of  the  season,  not  permanent;  losing  the  foliage 
every  year. 

DECOR'TICATE,  DECOR'TICATED  (decortfcatus,  pp.  of  decorticare,  <de,  from,  +  cortex, 
bark),  denuded  of  bark;  destitute  of  a  cortex  or  cortical  layer. 

DKCUM'BEXT  (decumben(t-}s,  ppr.  of  decumbere,  lie  down,  <<fe,  down,  -f  cumbers,  lie) 
applied  to  a  stem  having  the  lower  part  re&ting  on  the  ground. 

DECUR'RENT  (decurren(t-}s,  ppr.  decurrere,  run  down),  applied  to  lamellse  (gills) 
which  are  prolonged  down  the  stem. 

DECURVED'  (decurve  -f  ed,  after  decurvatus,  curved  back),  curved  downward;  op- 
posed to  recurved. 

DEFLEXEDX  (deflexus,  pp.  deflectere,  turn  aside),  bent  or  turned  down. 

6/1 


Glossary 

DEHIS'CENCE  (dehiscen(t-}s,  dehiscent),  the  spontaneous  opening  of  a  peridium  at 
maturity  to  discharge  the  spores. 

DEHIS'CENT  (dehiscere,  gape,  open),  a  closed  organ  opening  of  itself  at  maturity  or 
when  it  has  attained  a  certain  development. 

DELIQUESCENT  (deliquescere,  melt  away),  relating  to  mushrooms  which  at  maturity 
become  liquid  or  melt  down. 

DELIMITATION  (delimitare,  mark  out  the  limits,  <de  +  limitare,  limit,  bound),  the 
marking,  fixing  <5r  prescribing  the  limits  or  boundaries. 

DENDROID,  DEN'DRIFORM  (Gr. — a  tree,  -f  •£• — forma,  form),  tree-shaped. 

DEN'TATE  (dentatus,  tooth),  toothed  with  a  concave  serrature. 

DENTICULATE  (dcnticulatus,  <^denticulus,  a  small  tooth),  finely  dentate. 

DENU'DATE  (denudatus,  pp.  of  denudare,  make  bare,  strip),  naked;  exposed,  not  im- 
mersed. 

DEPRESSED'  (depressus,  pp.  of  deprimere,  <de,  down,  +  premere,  press),  as  if  pressed 
down  or  flattened  ;  sunk  below  the  level  of  the  surrounding  margin. 

DERMINI,  a  group  of  fungi  with  brown  or  rust-colored  spores. 

DESCENDING  (descindere,  pp.  descensus,  come  down,  fall,  <de,  down,  scandere, 
climb),  applied  to  a  marginal  veil  when,  in  the  young  stage,  its  marginal  attach- 
ment is  below  the  level  of  its  stem-attachment ;  a  ring  formed  from  it  is  called 
superior;  turned  downward. 

DES'ICCATE,  DESICCATED  (desiccatus,  pp.  of  desiccare,  dry  up,  <^de,  intensive,  <^sic- 
care,  dry),  dried. 

DETERMINATE  (determinatus,  pp.  determinare,  fix,  limit),  ending  definitely;  having  a 
distinctly  defined  outline. 

DETERMINATION  (determinatio(n) ,  boundary,  conclusion,  end,  determinare,  pp.  deter- 
minatus, bound,  determine),  assignment  to  the  proper  place  in  a  classification  or 
series. 

DIAGNOSIS  (diagnosis,  a  distinguishing),  scientific  discrimination  of  any  kind;  a 
short  distinctive  description,  as  of  a  plant. 

DIAPHANOUS  (Gr. — through,  +  to  appear),  of  a  transparent  texture;  permitting  the 
passage  of  light. 

DICHOT'OMOUS  (Gr. — in  two,  +  to  cut),  dividing  into  two;  regularly  forked. 

DICHOTOMY  (Gr. — a  cutting  in  two),  a  mode  of  branching  by  constant  forking  or 
dividing  in  pairs. 

DID'YMOUS  (Gr. — double,  twofold,  twin),  double;  of  two  equal  parts. 

DIFFERENTIATED  (differentia,  difference),  exhibiting  differentiation. 

DIFFERENTIATION  (differentia,  difference,  +  ation),  (a)  discrimination  between  by 
observing  or  describing  the  differences ;  (b)  the  evolutionary  process  or  results  by 
which  originally  different  parts  or  organs  become  differentiated  or  specialized  in 
either  form  or  function  ;  specialization. 

DIF'FLUENT  (diffluen(t-)s,  ppr.  oidiffluere,  <dis,  away,  apart,  -\-fluere,  flow),  readily 
dissolving. 

DIF'FORM,  DIFFORMED'  (deformis,  deformed),  irregular  in  form,  not  uniform. 

DIFFUSE'  (diffnsus,  pp.  of  diffundere,  pour  in  different  directions,  pour  out,  <^dis, 
away,  +  fundere,  flow),  spreading  widely,  loosely  and  irregularly. 

DIG'ITATE  (digitatus,  having  fingers  or  toes,  <^digitus,  finger),  furnished  with  fingers ; 
dividing  like  the  fingers  of  the  hand. 

DILA'TED  (dilatare,  spread  out ;  extend) ,  expanded ;  enlarged. 

6/2 


Glossary 

DIMIDIATE  (dimidiatus,  <dimidiare ,  halve),  halved;  e.  g.  of  gills  which  reach  half- 
way to  the  stem;  also  of  pileus  when  it  is  semi-circular  in  outline  or  nearly  so; 
as  many  Polyporei. 

DIMOR'PHIC,  DIMORPHOUS  (dimorphus,  having  two  forms),  existing  in  two  distinct 
forms. 

DIMORPHISM  (dimorphus,  having  two  forms),  the  property  of  existing  under  two 
distinct  forms. 

Disc,  DISK  (discus,  a  disk,  trencher),  (a)  any  flat  circular  disk-like  growth  ;  (b)  the 
central  portion  of  the  upper  surface  of  a  pileus;  the  cup-shaped  or  otherwise  va- 
riously shaped  hymenial  surface  of  a  Discomycete. 

DIS'CIFORM,  DIS'COID,  DIS'COIDAL  (discoidfs,  disk-shaped),  of  a  circular,  flat  form; 
disk-shaped. 

DIS'COCARP  (Gr. — a  disk,  +  Gr. — fruit),  ascocarp  in  which  the  hymenium  or  disk 
lies  exposed  while  the  asci  are  maturing  as  in  Peziza,  Morchella,  etc. 

DISOOMYCE'TES  (Gr. — a  disk,  +  Gr. — fungus),  a  group  of  ascomycetous  fungi  in 
which  the  hymenium  is  exposed ;  the  fruiting  body  is  cupular,  discoid  or  clavate, 
and  sometimes  convoluted. 

DISCRETE'  (discretus,  distinguished,  separated),  distinct,  not  coalescent. 

DISSEC'TED  (dissectus,  pp.  of  dissecare,  cut  asunder,  <dis,  asunder,  -f-  secare,  cut), 
cut  deeply  into  many  lobes  or  divisions. 

DISSEPIMENTS  (dissepimentum,  a  partition)  dividing  walls ;  partitions. 

DIS'TAL  (dist(ance)  -+-  al),  pertaining  to  the  apex  or  outer  extremity. 

DISTANT,  (distans,  ppr.  distare,  stand  apart),  far  apart;  of  gills  which  have  a  wide 
distance  between  them. 

DISTICHOUS  (Gr. — having  two  rows),  disposed  in  two  rows. 

DIVARICATE  (dimricatns,  pp.  divaricare,  spread  asunder),  separating  at  an  obtuse 
angle;  diverging  widely. 

DOR'SAL  (dorsalis,  <dorsum,  the  back),  pertaining  to  the  back,  literally  on  the  upper 
side. 

DOWN,  fine,  soft  pubescence. 

E  or  Ex-,  prefix  signifying  "destitute  of,"  "outside  of,"  or  "away  from." 

EBE'NEOUS  (ebeneus,  of  ebony,  <^ebenus,  ebony),  black  like  ebony. 

EBUR'XEOUS  (eburnens,  of  ivory,  <e6w,  ivory),  ivory-white. 

ECCEN'TRIC  (Gr. — out  of  the  center),  excentric. 

ECH'INATE  (echinatus,  set  with  bristles,  prickly),  furnished  with  stiff  bristles. 

ECHIN'ULATE  (echinulus,  dim.  of  echinus,  a  hedgehog),  beset  with  short  bristles. 

ECTO-  (Gr.— without,  outside),  prefix  signifying  "outside." 

ECTOBASID/IA  (Gr.— outside,  +  basidium),  basidia  placed  on  an  exposed  surface;  not 

enclosed. 

EDEN'TATE  (edentatus,  toothless,  pp.  of  edentare,  render  toothless),  without  teeth. 
EFFUSED'  (effusits,  pp.  effundere,  pour  cut),  spread  over  without  regular  form. 
EFFU'SO-REFLEXED',  effused  with  upper  margin  reflected  forming  a  pileus. 
EGG  (ovum,  an  eggV  a  young  plan  tbefore  rupture  of  the  volva  in  Phalloids,  Aman- 

itas,  etc. 

EGUTT'ULATE,  not  containing  guttulse. 
ELLIP'SOID  ( Gr. — ellipse,  +  Gr. — form),  a  solid  figure  all  plane,  sections  of  which 

are  ellipses  or  circles. 
ELLIPSOIDAL,  shaped  like  an  ellipsoid. 

43  6/3 


Glossary 

ELLIPTIC,  ELLIPTICAL  (Gr. — ellipse),  elongate-ovate;  more  than  twice  as  long  as 
broad  ;  parallel-sided  in  the  middle  and  rounded  at  both  ends. 

EMAR'GINATE  (emarginatus,  pp.  emarginare,  <e,  out  of;  margo,  the  margin),  notched 
at  the  end ;  of  gills  with  a  sudden  scoop,  as  if  scooped  out  at  the  point  of  attach- 
ment to  the  stem. 

EMBOSSED7,  in  botany  projecting  in  the  center  like  the  boss  or  urnbo  of  a  round 
shield. 

EM'BRYO,  the  mushroom  before  leaving  its  volva,  also  an  early  stage  of  mushrooms 
which  have  no  volva. 

ENCRUST'ING  (incrustare,  cover  with  a  rind  or  crust,  <iw,  on,  +  crusta,  a  crust). 

ENDEM'IC  (Gr. — native),  peculiar  to  and  characteristic  of  a  locality  or  region;  in- 
digenous in  some  region  and  not  elsewhere. 

ENDO-,  ENTO-  (Gr. — "in,"  "within"),  prefix  signifying  "within,"  "inside." 

ENDOBASID'IA  (Gr. — within,  +  basidium),  basidia  enclosed  in  a  dehiscent  or  in- 
dehiscent  conceptacle. 

ENDOCAU'LOUS  (Gr. — within,  +  caulis,  a  stalk),  growing  in  the  substance  of  herbace- 
ous stems. 

EN'DOGEN  (Gr. — within,  +  producing).     See  MONOCOTYLEDON. 

ENDOGENOUS  (Gr. — within,  +  Gr. — producing,  -+-  ous),  produced  within  another 
body  ;  of  or  pertaining  to  the  class  of  endogens. 

ENDOPERID'IUM  (Gr. — within,  +  peridium),  inner  layer  of  the  peridium. 

EN'DOPHYTE  (Gr. — within,  +  a  plant),  a  plant  growing  within  an  animal  or  another 
plant,  usually  as  a  parasite;  entophyte. 

EN'DOSPORE,  ENDOSPO'RIUM  (Gr. — within,  +  Gr. — seed),  (a)  the  inner  coat  of  a 
spore ;  (b)  spore  which  is  produced  within  a  sporangium  or  spore-sac  as  the 
ascospores. 

EN'SIFORM  (ensis,  a  sword,  -{-forma,  shape),  sword-shaped. 

ENTIRE'  (integer,  <^integrum,  whole),  the  edge  quite  devoid  of  serrature  or  notch; 
continuous. 

ENTOMOG'ENOUS  (Gr. — an  insect,  +  produced),  growing  upon  or  in  insects. 

ENTOMOPH'YTOUS  (Gr. — within,  +  grow),  growing  upon  or  in  insects. 

EN'TOPHYTE,  endophyte. 

EPIDER'MIS  (Gr. — the  outer  skin),  the  external  or  outer  layer  of  the  plant. 

EPIG'ENOUS  (Gr. — growing  after  or  late),  growing  upon  the  surface  of  a  part;  often 
limited  to  growth  upon  the  upper  surface,  in  distinction  from  hypogenous. 

EPIG^E'OUS,  EPIGE'OUS  (Gr. — on  or  of  the  earth;  on  the  ground),  growing  on  or  in 
the  ground. 

EP'IPHRAGM  (Gr. — a  covering;  lid),  a  delicate  membrane  closing  the  cup-like  re- 
ceptacle of  the  Nidulariacese. 

EPIPHYTAL,  EPIPHYTIC,  EPIPHYTICAL  (Gr. — upon,  +  a  plant),  of  the  nature  of  an 
epiphyte. 

EPIPHYTE  ( Gr. — upon,  +  a  plant) ,  growing  upon  the  outside  of  another  plant ;  either 
parasitic  or  not. 

EP'ISPORE,  EPISPO'RIUM  (Gr. — upon,  +  seed),  the  outer  coat  of  a  spore;  same  as 
exosporium. 

EPITHELIUM  (Gr.— upon,  +  a  case),  the  layer  sometimes  formed  above  the  asci 
by  the  concrescent  tips  of  the  paraphyses. 

EPIX'YLOUS  (Gr. — upon,  +  wood  +  ous),  growing  upon  wood. 


Glossary 

E'QI'AL  (cequalis,  equal,  like),  all  gills  of  the  same,  or  nearly  the  same,  length  from 

back  to  front;  stem  of  uniform  thickness. 
ERO'DED  (erodere,  gnaw  off),  the  edge  ragged  as  if  torn. 

ERUM'PENT  (erumpen(t-)s,  ppr.  of  emmpere,  break  out),  prominent;  originating  be- 
neath and  bursting  through  the  surface  of  the  matrix. 
E'TIOLATE,  ETIOLATED  (stipula,  straw),  whitened,  blanched  by  exclusion  of  the 

sun's  rays  or  by  disease. 
KYAXES'CEXT  (evanescen(t-)s,  ppr.  of  evanescere,  vanish  away),  fleeting;  vanishing; 

soon  disappearing. 
E'VEX,  of  a  surface  which  is  quite  plane  as  contrasted  e.  y.  with  one  which  is  striate, 

pitted,  etc.     Distinguished  from  smooth.    A  surface  may  not  be  smooth  and  yet 

be  even. 

Ex-,  prefix.     See  "E-." 
EXCEX'TRIC  (Gr. — out  of  the  center) ,  not  central ;  the  stems  of  some  mushrooms  are 

always  excentric. 
EXCIP'ULUM  (excipulum,  a  vessel  for  receiving  liquids,  <^excipere,  take  out,  receive), 

outer  layer  of  an  apothecium  or  cup  developed  as  part  of  the  receptacle. 
Exo-,  prefix  signifying  "outside." 
Ex 'or;  EN  (Gr. — outside,  4-  producing),  a  plant  in  which  the  growth  of  the  stem  is  in 

successive  concentric  layers. 
EXOC/EXOUS,  growing  by  additions  on  the  outside ;  belonging  to  or  characteristic  of 

the  class  of  exogens ;  produced  on  the  outside,  as  the  spores  of  hyphomycetous 

and  many  other  fungi. 

EXOPERID'IUM  (Gr. — outside,  4-  peridium),  outer  layer  of  the  peridium. 
EX'OSPORES"  (exosporium) ,  spores  which  are  free,  not  produced  within  a  sporangium, 

as  basidio-spores. 

EXOSPO'RIUM  ( Gr.— outside,  4-  seed),  the  outer  coat  of  a  spore;  same  as  episporium. 
EXOTIC  (exoticus,  foreign,  alien),  foreign,  not  native. 
EXPAN'DED  (expandere,  pp.  expansus,  spread  out,  <^ex,  out,  4-  pander :e,  spread),  spread 

out,  as  a  pileus  from  convex  to  plane. 
EX'PLANATE    (explanatus,   flattened,    spread    out),   flattened,    expanded;     applied 

usually  to  a  part  which  has  been  rolled  or  folded. 

EXSER'TED  (exsertus,  thrust  out,  pp.  of  exsere,  stretch  out),  projecting;  standing  out. 
EXSICCA'TI  (exsiccatus,  pp.  of  exsiccare,  dry  up),  dried  specimens;  especially  those 

published  in  sets  and  distributed. 

FACULTATIVE  (faculta(t-)s,  faculty),  capability,  etc.,  having  a  faculty  or  power,  but 
exercising  it  only  occasionally  or  incidentally ;  optional  or  contingent. 

FAC'ULTATIVE-PAR'ASITE,  an  organism  which  normally  lives  throughout  as  a  sapro- 
phyte, but  which  may  also  go  through  its  course  either  wholly  or  in  part  as  a 
parasite. 

FAC'ULTATIVE-SAP'ROPHYTB,  an  organism  which  normally  is  parasitic,  but  which  can 
vegetate  at  certain  stages  as  a  saprophyte. 

FAI/CATE,  FAI/CIFORM  (falcatus,  bent,  curved,  hooked,  sickle-shaped,  </ate,  a 
sickle),  hooked,  curved  like  a  scythe  or  sickle. 

FAMILY  (familia,  household  establishment,  < famulus,  a  servant),  a  systematic 
group  in  a  scientific  classification  embracing  a  greater  or  less  number  of  genera 
which  agree  in  certain  characters  not  shared  by  others  of  the  same  order. 

FARC'TATE  (farctus,  </«ra'o,  to  stuff) ,  stuffed  ;  without  vacuities ;  opposed  to  fistulose. 

675 


Glossary 

FARINA'CEOUS  (farinace.us,^  farina,  meal),  mealy. 

FAR'INOSE  (farinosus,  mealy),  covered  with  a  white  mealy  powder. 

FAS'CIA  (fastis,  a  bundle),  a  band  or  bar. 

FAS'CIATE,  FAS'CIATED  (fascia,  a  band  or  girth),  having  broad  parallel  bands  or 

stripes;  banded  or  compacted  together;  exhibiting  fasciation. 
FASCIA'TION  (fascia,  a  band),  the  act  or  manner  of  binding  with  fasciae,  a  monstrous 

flattened  expansion  of  the  stem  ;  condition  of  being  bound  or  compacted  together. 
FAS'CICLE,  FASCICULUS  (fasciculus,  a  small  bundle;  packet,  etc.),  a  close  cluster;  a 

small  bundle. 

FASCIC'ULATE  (fasciculus,  a  small  bundle),  growing  in  small  bundles  or  fascicles. 
FASTIG'IATE  (fastigiatus,   sloping,  <^fastigium,   the  top  of  a  gable,   slope),   with 

branches  erect  and  close  together;  sloping  upward  to  a  summit,  point  or  edge. 
FAVOSE'  (favosus,   </a»ws,  a  honey-comb),  honey-combed;   resembling  a  honey- 
comb. 

FAWN-COLOR  (cervinus,  cervineus),  a  light  warm-brown  color. 
FKRRU'GINEOUS,  FERRUGINOUS  (ferrugineus),  rust-red  or  the  color  of  iron  rust. 
FI'BRILLAR,  FI'BRILLATE,  FI'BRILLOSE,  FI'BRILLOUS  (fibrilla,  a  fiber),  appearing  to  be 

covered  or  composed  of  minute  fibers. 

FI'BROUS  (fibrosus,  <^fibra,  a  fiber),  clothed  with  small  fibers. 
FI'BROUS-MYCE'LIUM,  FIBRILLOSE-MYCELIUM,  elongated  branching  mycelial  strands, 

formed  by  the  union  of  hyphse. 
FIG'URATE  (figuratus,  pp.  figuare,  <^flgura,  a  form,  shape),  of  a  certain  determinate 

form  or  shape. 

FIL'AMENT  (filum,  thread),  a  separate  fiber  or  fibril  of  any  animal  or  vegetable  tis- 
sue, as  a  filament  of  silk,  wool,  etc. 

FILAMENTOUS,  like  a  thread;  composed  of  threads  or  filaments.. 
FILAMEN'TOUS-MYCE'LIUM,  FLOC/COSE-MYCE/LIUM,  mycelium  of  free  hyphse  which 

are  at  most  loosely  interwoven,  but  without  forming  bodies  of  definite  shape  and 

outline. 

FILACEOUS,  FIL'IFORM  (filum,  a  thread,  -f  aceous),  like  a  thread  or  filament. 
FIM'BRIATE,  FIM'BRIATED  (fimbriatus,  <^fimbrice,  a  fringe),  fringed;  cut  jaggedly. 
FIS'SILE  (fissilis,  cleft,  <^fissus,  pp.  findere,  split),  capable  of  being  split,  cleft  or 

divided  in  layers. 

FIS'SURED  (flssura,  a  cleft,  chink,  fissure),  cleft  or  split. 
Fis/rruLAR,  FIS'TULOSE  (fistularis,  like  a  pipe,  <ifistula,  a  pipe),  tubular,  hollow  in 

the  center  like  a  pipe. 

FIXED,  said  of  lamellae  or  spines  not  readily  detached  from  the  underlying  tissue. 
FLABEL'LATE,  FLABEL'LIFORM  (flabellum,  a  fan),  fan-shaped. 
FLAC'CID  (flaccidus,  flabby,  pendulous),  soft  and  limber;  flabby;  without  firmness 

or  elasticity. 
FLAVESXCENT  (flavescens,  ppr.flavescere,  become  yellow,  <^Jlavus,  yellow),  yellowish 

or  turning  yellow. 

FLAXVOUS  (flavus,  golden-yellow,  reddish-yellow),  yellow. 
FLESH,  inner  substance  of  a  fungus-body  as  distinguished  from  the  cortical  and 

hymenial  layers. 
FLESH-COLOR   (carneus,  incarnatus),  a  pinkish-color  like  that  observable  in  the 

cheeks  of  a  person  of  fair  complexion  ;  carnation. 
FLESHXY,  succulent ;  composed  of  juicy  cellular  tissue. 
FLEX'UOSE,  FLEX'UOUS  (flexuosus,  <flexus,  a  bending,  winding),  wavy. 

6/6 


Glossary 

FLOC'CI  (pi.  of  FLOC'CUS)  (floccus,  a  lock  of  wool),  woolly  locks. 

FLOC'COSE  (floccosus,  <^floccus,  a  lock  of  wool),  downy,  woolly;  composed  of  or 
bearing  flocci. 

FLOC'CULOSE  (flocculosus,  <^  flocculus,  dim.  of  floccus,  a  lock  of  wool),  covered  with 
flocci;  composed  of  or  bearing  minute  flocci. 

FOLIA'CEOUS  (foliaceus,  leafy,  of  leaves,  <^  folium,  a  leaf),  leaf-like;  bearing  leaves. 

FO'VEATE  (foveatus,  <^fovea,  a  small  pit,  pitfall),  marked  with  pits  or  depressions. 

FOV'EOLATE  (foveolatus,  <^foveola,  dim.  of  fovea,  a  small  pit),  marked  with  minute 
pits  or  depressions. 

FREE,  said  of  gills  which  are  not  attached  to  the  stem;  said  of  any  part  not  at- 
tached to  another;  of  spores  not  inclosed  in  a  special  envelope. 

FRILL,  same  as  ARMILLA. 

FRONT,  same  as  ANTERIOR. 

FIMXGE  (fimbria,  a  border),  a  lacerated,  marginal  membrane. 

FRUCTIFICATION  (fructificare,  bear  fruit),  reproducing  power  of  a  plant;  fruiting; 
also  the  organs  concerned. 

FUGA'CIOUS  (fugar,  <^f»>jere,  flee),  fleeting,  transitory  ;  falling  or  fading  early. 

FU'GITIVE  (fuyitivus,  fleeing  away;  a  fugitive),  quickly  disappearing;  evanescent. 

FULIGIN/EOUS,  FULIG'INOUS  (fnliyinosus),  sooty-brown  or  dark  smoke-color. 

FULVES'CENT  (fulvesccns],  inclining  to  a  fulvous  color. 

FUL'VOUS  (fulvun'),  a  rather  indefinite  brownish-yellow  or  yellowish-brown  tint,  like 
tanned  leather ;  tawny. 

FU'MOSE,  FU'MOUS  (fumosus,  full  of  smoke,  <^fumus,  smoke,  steam),  smoke-colored, 
fuliginous. 

FUN'GOID  (fungus,  mushroom,  +  Gr. — form),  of,  or  pertaining  to  fungi. 

FUXGOI/OGY  (fungus,  mushroom,  -f-  Gr. — speak),  mycology. 

FUN'GUS  (pi.  FUN'GI)  (fungus,  a  mushroom),  a  thallophyte  characterized  by  the  ab- 
sence of  chlorophyl  and  deriving  its  sustenance  from  living  or  dead  organic 
matter. 

FUXIC'ULAR  (funiculus,  a  small  cord),  having  the  character  of  a  funicle  or  small  cord. 

Frvic/ULATE  (funiculus,  a  small  cord),  having  a  funicle. 

Frxic'uLUS  (L. — a  small  rope  ,  in  Nidulariacese  the  cord  of  hyphse  attaching  a 
peridiolum  to  the  inner  wall  of  the  peridium. 

FUR'CATE  (furcatus,  <^furca,  a  fork),  forked. 

FURFURA'CEOUS  (furfuraceus,  </nr/wr,  bran),  with  branny  scales  or  scurf. 

FUSCES'CENT  (fuscus,  dark,  dusky,  +  escent),  somewhat  fuscous. 

Fus'cous  (fuscus,  dusky),  brownish  in  color;  brown  or  brown  tinged  with  gray; 
dingy,  not  pure. 

FU'SIFORM,  FUXSOID  (fusus,  a  spindle ;  forma,  form),  spindle-shaped. 

GAMOGENXESIS  (Gr. — marriage,  -f-  generation),  sexual  reproduction. 
GAs^rEROMYCE^ES,  GAS^ROMYCE'TEs  ( Gr. — stomach,  +  mushroom),  a  group  of  Basi- 

diomycetes  in  which  the  hymenium  is  enclosed  in  a  sack-like  envelope  called  the 

peridium. 

GELATINOUS  (gelatinosus,  <^gelatina,  gelatine),  jelly-like. 
GENER'IC  (genus,  race,  sort),  pertaining  to,  of  the  nature  of,  or  forming  a  mark  of  a 

genus ;  having  the  rank  or  classificatory  value  of  a  genus. 
GEXET'IC  (Gr. — generation),  of  or  pertaining  to  origin  or  mode  of  production. 

677 


Glossary 

GE'NUS  (pi.  GEN'ERA)  (L. — race,  birth,  origin,  kind),  a  group  of  species  having  one 

or  more  characteristics  in  common ;  the  union  of  several  genera  presenting  the 

same  features  constitute  a  tribe. 
GIB'BOUS  (gibbus,  hump-backed),  in  the  form  of  a  swelling;  of  a  pileus  e.  g.  which 

is  more  convex  or  tumid  on  one  side  than  the  other. 

GILLS,  the  plates  of  an  agaric  on  which  the  hymenium  is  situated ;  the  lamellae. 
GIL'VOUS,  isabelline ;  color  of  sole-leather. 

GLA'BROUS  (glaber,  smooth),  smooth,  devoid  of  pubescence;  a  surface  may  be  gla- 
brous or  smooth,  and  not  even,  or  vice  versa. 

GLAIR  (clarus,  clear),  any  viscous  transparent  substance  resembling  white  of  an  egg. 
GLANDS,  GLANDULES  (glans,  an  acorn,  dim.  glandula,  a  gland),  moist  or  sticky  dots 

resembling  the  glands  on  the  epidermis  of  phenogams. 
GLANDULAR,  bearing  glands. 

GLAUCES'CENT  (glaucescen(t-)s,  <^glaucus,  silvery,  gleaming),  inclining  to  glaucous. 
GLAU'COUS  (glaucus,  silvery,  gleaming),  covered  with  a  whitish-green  bloom  or  very 

fine  white  powder  easily  rubbed  off.     Somewhat  like  that  of  cabbage. 
GLE'BA    (gleba,  a   clod),    in    Gastromycetes,    spore-bearing    tissue   composed   of 

chambers  lined  with  the  hymenium  and  enclosed  by  the  sack-like  peridium,  as 

in  puff-balls,  etc. ;  in  phalloids  the  peridium  or  volva  ruptures  and  the  gleba  is 

carried  up  on  the  stem-like  or  clathrate  receptacle. 

GLO'BOSE,  GLOBULAR,  GLOB'ULOSE  (globosus,  round  as  a  ball),  nearly  spherical. 
GLU'TINOSE,  GLU'TINOUS  (glutinosus,  gluey,  viscous,  <^gluten,  glue),  covered  with  a 

sticky  exudation  ;  viscous ;  glue-like. 
GONID'IUM  (Gr. — generation;  seed),  same  as  conidium;  also  preferably  applied  to 

the  algal  element  of  lichens. 
GRAN'ULAR,  GRANULATE,  GRAN'ULOSE  (granula,  dim.  of  granum,  grain),  covered  with 

or  composed  of  granules. 
GRANULE  (granula,  dim.  of  granum,  grain),  a  little  grain ;  a  fine  particle:  a  sporule 

found  in  all  cryptogamic  plants. 
GRAY  (griseus;  ccesius;  cinereus;  canus;  leucophceus*) ,  a  color  produced  by  the  mixture 

of  black  and  white.     Various  shades  depending  upon  varying  relative  proportions 

of  the  components. 

GREAVED  (greve,  the  shin-bone),  of  a  stem  clothed  like  a  leg  in  armor. 
GREGA'RIOUS  (gregarius,  of  a  flock),  of  mushrooms  not  solitary  but  growing  together 

in  numbers  in  the  same  locality;  in  groups  but  not  in  a  tufted  manner. 
GRU'MOUS  (grumosus,  <^grumus,  a  little  heap),  clotted;  of  flesh  e.  g.  composed  of 

little  clustered  grains. 

GUT'TATE  (guttatus,  <^gutta,  a  tear),  marked  with  tear-like  spots  or  drops. 
GUTT'ULA  (pi.  GUTTUL.E)  (dim.  of  gutta,  a  drop),  a  small  drop  or  drop-like  particle; 

the  oil-globule  in  some  spores  resembling  a  nucleus. 
GUTT'ULATE,  finely  guttate ;  also,  containing  or  composed  of  fine  drops  or  drop-like 

particles;  said  of  spores  containing  an  oily  nucleus-like  globule  or  guttula. 
GYMNOCAR'POUS  (Gr.— naked,  +  Gr. — fruit),  having  the  hymenium  exposed  when 

the  spores  are  maturing. 
GY'RATE,  GY'ROSE  (Gr. — a  circle),  circling  in  wavy  folds;  having  folds  resembling 

the  convolutions  of  the  brain. 

HAB'ITAT  (habitat,  it  dwells),  natural  abode  of  a  vegetable  species. 

678 


Glossary 

HAUSTO'RIUM  (pi.  HAUSTC/RIA)  (haustor,  a  drawer,  <haurire,  pp.  haustus,  draw), 
special  branch  of  filamentous  mycelium,  which  serves  as  an  organ  of  adhesion 
and  suction. 

HEMIANGIOCAR'POUS  (hemi,  half,  +  Gr. — a  vessel,  a  case),  partly  angiocarpous  as 
those  agarics  where  the  hymenium  is  at  first  enclosed  by  a  veil  or  otherwise  and 
later  becomes  exposed. 

HEPATIC  (hepaticus,  of  the  liver),  pertaining  to  the  liver,  hence  liver-colored; 
brownish-red. 

HERBIC'OLOUS,  growing  on  herbaceous  plants. 

HETEROGE'NEOUS  (G-r.— one  of  two),  of  a  structure  which  is  different  from  adjacent 
ones. 

HIBERNAC'ULUM  (pi.  HiBERNAc'uLA)  (winter  residence,  <^hibernare,  pass  the  win- 
ter), applied  to  bodies  which  are  the  forms  in  which  certain  fungi  (e.  g.  Typhulse) 
pass  the  winter. 

HIRSUTE'  (hirsutus,  rough,  shaggy,  bristly),  hairy  with  stiff  hairs. 

HIR/TO-YER/RUCOSE,  bearing  hairs  grouped  in  wart-like  masses. 

HIS'PID  (hispidus,  rough,  shaggy,  bristly),  having  strong  hairs  or  bristles;  bristly. 

HOAR'Y,  covered  with  short  dense  grayish-white  hairs;  canescent. 

HOLO-,  (Gr. — entire,  complete  in  all  parts),  a  prefix  signifying  entire;  whole. 

HOMOGENEOUS  (Gr. — one  and  the  same,  -f  kind),  similar  in  structure;  of  the  same 
character. 

HOST,  the  name  given  to  any  plant  or  animal  supporting  a  parasitic  fungus. 

HOMOLOGOUS  (Gr. — agreeing,  correspondent),  having  the  same  relative  position, 
proportion,  value  or  structure ;  having  correspondence  or  likeness. 

HU'MUS  (earth,  ground,  soil\  vegetable  mold ;  woody  fiber  in  a  state  of  decay. 

HY'ALINE  (Gr. — clear),  colorless;  transparent;  clear  like  glass. 

HYGROMET'RIC  (Gr. — wet,  moist,  +  a  measure,  -f  ic),  readily  absorbing  and  retain- 
ing moisture. 

HYGROPH'ANOUS  (Gr.  —  moist;  Gr.— to  show),  of  a  watery  appearance  when  moist 
and  opaque  when  dry. 

HYGROSCOP'IC,  having  the  property  of  absorbing  moisture  from  the  atmosphere ; 
sensitive  to  moisture. 

HYME'XIUM  (hymenial,  belonging  to  the  hymenium;  Gr. — a  membrane),  the  fruit- 
bearing  surface ;  e.  g.  covering  intimately  each  side  of  the  gills  of  an  Agaric. 

HY'MENOMYCE'TES  (Gr. — a  mushroom,  +  Gr. — a  membrane),  a  group  of  Basidiomy- 
cetes  having  the  hymenium  on  the  free,  exposed  surface  of  the  sporophore. 

HY'MENOPHORE,  HYMENOPH'ORUM  (Gr. — a  membrane,  +  to  bear),  the  structure 
which  bears  the  hymenium ;  in  Agarics  e.  g.  the  under  surface  of  the  pileus  to 
which  the  gills  are  attached. 

HY'PHA  (pi.  HY'PHJE),  the  elementary  filament  or  thread  of  a  fungus;  a  cylindric 
thread-like  branched  body  developing  by  apical  growth,  and  usually  becoming 
transversely  septate. 

HY'PHAL,  of  or  pertaining  to  the  hypha. 

HYPOCRATER'IFORM  (Gr. — the  stand  of  a  crater,  -f  forma,  form),  having  the  shape 
of  a  cylindrical  cup  the  margin  of  which  turns  outward ;  salver-shaped. 

HYPOG^E'OUS,  HYPOGE'AI,,  HYPOGE'OUS  (hypogceous,  underground),  subterranean; 
forming  below  the  surface  of  the  ground. 

HYPOG'ENOUS  (Gr. — under,  +  produced,  -f  ous),  growing  on  the  under  surface. 

HYPOPHYI/IX>US  (folium,  a  leaf,  -f-  ous),  growing  on  the  under  side  of  a  leaf. 

679 


Glossary 

HYIWHE'CIUM  (Gr. — under,  a  case),  layer  of  hyphal  tissue  immediately  beneath  a 
hymenium. 

IDENTIFICATION,  the  determination  of  a  genus  and  species  to  which  a  given  speci- 
men belongs. 

IM/BRICATE,  IM'BRICATED  (imbricatus ,  pp.  of  imbricare,  cover  with  gutter  tiles ;  form 
like  a  gutter  tile),  to  lay  or  lap  one  over  another,  like  shingles. 

IMMAR'GINATE  (in,  negative ;  marginatus,  marginate),  without  a  well-defined  margin. 

IMMERSED'  (immersus,  pp.  of  immergere,  dip  or  plunge  into),  sunk  into  the  matrix; 
originating  beneath  the  surface  of  the  matrix  or  of  the  ground;  growing  wholly 
under  water. 

IMPER'FORATE  (in,  not,  +  perforatus,  pp.  of  perforare,  perforate),  without  any  aper- 
ture. 

INCANES'CENT  (incanescen(t-)s,  ppr.  of  incanescere,  become  gray  or  hoary),  somewhat 
or  slightly  canescent. 

INCAR'NATE  (in,  in,  on,  +  caro  (earn),  flesh),  flesh-colored. 

IM-ISEI/  (incisus,  pp.  incindere,  cut  into),  appearing  as  if  cut  into;  having  marginal 
slits  or  notches. 

INCRAS'SATED  (incrassatus,  pp.  of  incrassare,  <j,n,  in;  crassare,  make  thick),  becom- 
ing thicker  by  degrees,  swelling  or  swollen. 

INCRUS'TING  (incnwtare,  cover  with  a  rind  or  crust,  <MI,  on,  +  crusta,  a  crust),  form- 
ing a  crust-like  coating. 

INDEHIS'OENT,  applied  to  a  peridium  which  does  not  open  spontaneously  at  maturity ; 
the  spores  within  it  becoming  freed  by  its  decay. 

INUIF'FERENT,  primitive,  homogenous,  not  developed  into  parts  or  organs  of  differ- 
ent structure  or  function. 

INDIG'ENOUS  (indigena,  a  native),  native  of  a  country. 

INDIGO  BUTE,  a  dark  blue-color  like  the  indigo  of  commerce. 

IN'DHRATED  (induratus,  pp.  of  indurare,  harden,  <i»,  in,  -f-  durare,  harden),  hardened. 

INDU'SIITM  (L. — a  tunic,  <.induere,  put  on),  in  certain  phalloids,  an  appendage  or 
veil  hanging  from  the  apex  of  the  stem  beneath  the  pileus. 

INFE'RLOR  (inferior,  lower),  growing  below  some  other  part;  of  the  ring  of  an  Agaric 
which  is  far  down  on  the  stem. 

INFLATED,  swollen  like  a  bladder. 

INKLEXED'  (inflexus,  pp.  inflexere,  bent),  bent  inward. 

I.VFUNOIB'ULIFORM  (infundibulum,  a  funnel;  forma,  form),  funnel-shaped. 

INHIBIT/ION  (uihibitio(n-) ,  a  restraining,  <inhibere,  restrain),  the  lowering  of  the 
action  of  a  nervous  mechanism  by  nervous  impulses  reaching  it  from  a  connected 
mechanism. 

IN'NATE  (innatus,  pp.  of  innasci,  <m,  into;  nascor,  to  be  born),  originating  within 
the  substance  of  the  plant  or  matrix ;  appearing  to  be  within  or  blending  with 
the  substance  of  a  part. 

INORGAN'IC,  not  produced  by  vital  processes ;  not  organic. 

ISABELLA  COLOR  (alutaceus),  a  light  grayish-cinnamon  color,  or  light  buff-brown. 

INSERTED  (insertus,  pp.  inserere,  to  insert),  growing  like  a  graft  from  its  stock;  at- 
tached to  or  growing  out  of  some  other  part. 

INSITI'TIOUS  (insitio,  an  ingrafting,  <mserere,  pp.  insitus,  sow  or  plant,  ingraft), 
inserted. 

680 


Glossary 

INTER-  (L. — in  the  midst,  between,  among,  during),  prefix  signifying  "between"  or 
"among"  or  "during." 

INTER'CALARY,  INTERCALATED  (intercalates,  pp.  of  intercalare,  <^inter,  between,  + 
calare,  call),  interposed;  inserted  between. 

INTERCELI/ULAR  (inter,  between,  +  cellula,  cellule,  -f  ar),  situated  between  the  cells. 

INTERRUPTED,  said  of  any  surface  or  series  the  continuity  of  which  is  broken. 

INTERSTICES,  spaces  between  any  surfaces  or  things. 

INTRA-  (intra,  within),  prefix  signifying  "within." 

INTRACELI/ULAR,  situated  within  a  cell  or  cells. 

IXTRALAM/ELLAR,  situated  within  or  between  the  plates  of  the  lamellae  (gills). 

INTRAVENAL  (intra,  within,  4-  vena,  vein),  situated  or  occurring  within  veins. 

INTRODUCED',  applied  to  plants  brought  from  another  country  and  growing  spon- 
taneously. 

INTUMES'CENT  (intumescens,  ppr.  of  intnmescere,  swell  up),  swelling  up,  becoming 
tumid. 

INVAC/INATED  (in,  in,  4-  vagina,  a  sheath),  sheathed. 

IX'VOLUTE  (involutes,  pp.  involvere,  to  roll  up),  rolled  inwards. 

LSABEI/LINE,  of  the  color  of  soiled  linen  or  sole  leather;  alutaceous;  brownish-yel- 
low, yellowish-gray. 

LABIATE  (labiatus,  lipped,  <^labium,  lip),  said  of  an  aperture  with  distinct  lip-like 

borders. 

LABYRINTHINE,  LABYRIN'THIFORM  (labyrinthus,  labyrinth),  characterized  by  intri- 
cate and  sinuous  lines;  like  a  labyrinth. 
LAC'CATE  (laccatus,  <7acca,  lac),  as  if  varnished  or  covered  with  a  coat  like  sealing 

wax. 

LAC'ERATE,  LAC'ERATED,  as  if  torn. 
LACIN'IATE  (laciniatus,  <^lacinia,  a  lappet),  divided  into  flaps;  irregularly  cut  into 

jagged  edges,  more  regular  and  larger  than  fimbriate. 

LACTESCENT  (lactescere,  turn  to  milk),  milk-bearing,  provided  with  a  milky  juice. 
LACU'NA  (pi.  LACU'NA:)   (lacuna,  a  pit,  hollow,  cavity,  etc.),  a  pit  or  hollow,  a  gap; 

a  vacancy  caused  by  the  admission,  loss  or  obliteration  of  something  necessary 

to  continuity  or  completeness. 
LACU'NOSE,  LACU'NOUS  (lacunosus,  full  of  hollows,  <  lacuna,  a  pit),  marked  with 

small  hollows,  pitted  ;  having  or  full  of  lac. 
LAMEI/LA  (pi.  LAMEI/L^:)  (lamella,  a  thin  piece  of  metal,  wood),  a  gill  or  gills  of 

mushrooms,  on  which  the  hymenium  is  extended. 

LA'NATE  (lanatus,  woolly, <tan«,  wool),  woolly  ;  covered  with  a  wool-like  pubescence. 
LAX'CEOLATE  (lanceolatus,  <Janceola,  a  little  spear),  lance-shaped;  tapering  to  both. 

ends. 

LATERAL,  attached  to  or  by  one  side. 
LATERIC'EOUS,   LATERIT'IOUS  (latericeus,   lateritius,  consisting  of  bricks,  </«*er,  a 

brick),  brick-colored. 

LA'TEX  (latex,  liquid;  ferre,  bear),  thick  milky  juice. 
LATICIFXEROUS  (latex,  liquid,  -\-ferre,  bear),  applied  to  the  tubes  containing  latex, 

as  in  the  Lactafii. 
LATTICED,  formed  by  interlacing  and  crossing  lines  or  columns  which  leave  open 

spaces  between. 

68 1 


Glossary 

LAVENDER  (lavendulaceus) ,  a  very  pale  purplish  color,  paler  and  more  delicate  than 
lilac. 

LAX  (laxus,  loose,  slack),  not  compact,  limber,  flaccid. 

XEAD-COLOR  (plumbeus'),  same  as  PLUMBEOUS. 

LEMON- YELLOW  (citreus,  citrinus),  a  very  pure  light-yellow  color,  much  like  gam- 
boge, but  purer  and  richer. 

LENTIC'ULAR,  LEN'TIFORM  (lenticularis,  lentil-shaped,  <jenticula,  a  lentil),  shaped 
like  a  double  convex  lens ;  lentil-shaped. 

LEP'IDOTE  (G-r. — scaly),  scurfy  with  minute  scales. 

LEUCOS'POR.E  (Gr. — white;  Gr. — seed),  a  group  of  fungi  having  white  spores,  hence 
leucospore,  a  white  spore ;  leucosporous,  having  spores  of  a  white  color. 

LEV/IGATE  (levigatus,  pp.  of  levigare,  make  smooth),  having  a  polished  surface. 

LIG'NATILE  (Hgnatilis,  <^lignum,  wood),  growing  on  wood. 

LIG'NEOUS  (ligneus,  wooden),  of  woody  texture. 

LIG'ULATE  (ligula,  a  tongue,  strap,  etc.,  -f  ate),  strap-shaped,  flattened  like  a  strap. 

LILAC,  LILACEOUS  (lilacinus,  lilaceus),  a  light-purple  color,  like  the  flowers  of  the 
lilac. 

LIN'EAR  (lineans,  <^linea,  a  line),  narrow  and  straight,  slender. 

LING'UIFORM,  LING'ULATE  (lingua,  tongue),  tongue-shaped. 

LIVID  (lividus,  black-and-blue),  bluish-black,  like  the  black  and  blue  of  a  bruise. 

LOBED,  LO'BATE  ( Gr. — the  lobe  of  an  ear),  having  divisions  which  are  large  and 
rounded. 

LOB'ULATE,  having  small  lobes. 

LOC'ULAR,  LOC'ULATE,  LOC'ULOSE,  Loc'uLOus  (loculus,  a  box,  cell),  divided  by  in- 
ternal partitions  into  loculi  or  cells. 

LOC'ULUS  (pi.  LOC'ULI),  a  little  chamber  or  cell. 

LU'CID  (lucidiis,  light,  bright,  clear^,  clear,  transparent,  bright. 

LU'MEN  (lumen,  a  window-light),  the  internal  cavity  or  spaces  in  a  cell  or  any  tubu- 
lar organ. 

LU'RID  (luridus,  pale-yellow,  wan,  etc.),  a  color  between  purple,  yellow  and  gray; 
livid. 

LU'TEOUS  (luteus),  yellowish  ;  more  or  less  like  buff  or  clay  color. 

LUTES'CENT  (lutescen(t-)s,  ppr.  of  lutescere,  turn  to  mud,  <^lutum,  mud),  yellowish. 

MACRO-  (Gr. — long),  in  composition  "large"  or  "long." 

MAC'ULATE,   MAC'ULAR,   MAC'ULOSE   (maculatus,   pp.   of   maculare,   spot,   speckle), 

spotted. 

MAM'MIFORM  (mamma,  a  breast;  forma,  form),  breast-shaped;  mastoid;  teat-like. 
MAR'GINAL  VEIL,  a  horizontal  membrane  extending  from  the  margin  of  the  pileus 

to  the  stem;  found  in  Hymenomycetes. 
MAR'GINATE,  having  a  well-defined  border. 
MAROON  (atro-purpureus,  atro-coccineus'),  a  rich  brownish-crimson,  nearly  like  the 

pigment  called  purple  madder;  claret  color. 

MATRIX  (matrix,  a  womb),  the  substance  upon  or  in  which  a  fungus  grows. 
MAUVE  (malvaceus,  maMnus),  a  light  tint  of  violet.     (Aniline  violet  +  white.) 
MEDIAL  (medialis,  <^medius,  the  middle),  applied  to  ring  when  situated  about  at  the 

middle  of  stem. 
MEDULXLA  (medulla,  marrow,  pith,  kernel, <^medius,  middle),  pith,  marrow,  kernel; 

inner  substance  as  distinguished  from  outer  or  cortical  layer  or  layers. 

682 


Glossary 

MEI/ULLARY,  composed  of  or  pertaining  to  a  medulla. 
MEGA-  (Gr. — great,  large),  prefix  signifying  "great." 

MELANOS'POR-E  (Gr. — black,  — seed),  a  group  of  fungi  having  black  spores. 
MEMBRANA'CEOUS  (membranaceus,  of  skin  or  membrane,  <jnembrana,  skin,  mem- 
brane), pertaining  to,  or  of  the  nature  of,  skin,  membrane ;  membranaceous ;  thin, 

rather  soft  and  pliable. 
MERISXMOID  (merisma,  from  Gr. — to  divide,  H form),  applied  to  pileus  which  is 

subdivided  into  many  smaller  pilei ;  resembling  a  Merisma ;  having  a  branched  or 

laciniate  pileus. 

MES'OPOD  (Gr. — middle,  -\ foot),  plant  having  a  central  stem. 

MICACEOUS  (micaceus,  <m/ca,  mica),  covered  with  glistening  mica-like  particles. 
MI'CRON,  MI'KRON,  n,  microscopic  unit  of  measure;  TsW  °f  a  millimeter;  nearly 

.00004  inch;   to   convert  inches  to   microns,  approximately,  divide  by  .00004; 

represented  by  the  Greek  letter  /u,  following  the  number. 
MILLIMETER,  MM.  (mille,  a  thousand,  +  meter),  the  thousandth  part  of  a  meter,  equal 

to  0.03937  inch  or  nearly  ^  inch.     It  is  denoted  by  mm.,  as  25.4  mm.  is  1  inch. 
MIN'IATE  (mmiattts,  pp.  of  miniare,  color  with  red  lead,  <n«'m'w?n,  red  lead),  ver- 

rnilion-colored ;  of  a  bright,  vivid  red  color. 

MI'TRATE,  MIT'RIFORM  (mitra,  a  miter),  miter-shaped,  bonnet-shaped. 
MOLD.  MOULD,  fine  soft  earth  ;  a  general  term  to  describe  certain  fungus  growths  of 

a  low  type. 
MONIL'IFORM  (monile,  necklace;  forma,  form),  contracted  at  intervals  in  the  length 

like  a  string  of  beads. 

MONOS'TICHOUS  (Gr. — single,  -\ a  line),  arranged  in  one  row. 

MON'STROUS,  of  unnatural  formation;  deviating  greatly  from  the  natural  form  or 

structure  (has  no  reference  to  size). 

MORPHOLOGIC,  MORPHOLCK/ICAL,  of  or  pertaining  to  morphology. 
MORPHOL'OGY  (Gr. — form,  -\ speak),  the  science  of  organic  form;  the  science  of 

of  outer  form  and  internal  structure. 
MOTHER-CELL,  a  cell  from  which  another  is  derived. 
MOUSE-GRAY  (murino-griseus ;  murinus).     (Lamp-black  -f-  white  -f-  sepia.) 
MOV'ABLE,  applied  to  a  ring  which  has  separated  from  the  stem  and  can  be  moved 

up  and  down. 

MUCED'INOUS  (mticedo,  mucus),  having  the  character  of  or  resembling  mold  or  mildew. 
MU'CID  (tmicidus,  moldy,  <mwcere,  be  moldy  or  musty,  <mucus,  mucus),  musty, 

moldy,  slimy. 
MUCILAGINOUS  (mucilago,  a  moldy,  musty  juice,  +  ous),  slimy,  ropy,  slightly  viscid, 

soft,  moist. 
Mu'cous  (mucosus,  slimy,  <^mucus,  slime),  pertaining  to  mucus,  or  resembling  it; 

slimy,  ropy,  lubricous. 
MU'CRO  (L. — a  sharp  point,  esp.  of  a  sword),  a  short  and  abrupt  point  of  a  leaf  or 

other  organ. 
MU'CRONATE  (mucronatus,  pointed,  <m«cro,  a  sharp  point),  tipped  with  an  abrupt, 

sharp  short  point. 

MULTI-  (multus,  much,  many),  in  composition  "many." 
MULXTIFID  (multijldtts,  many-cleft),  having  many  divisions. 
MULTIPARTITE  (muHipartitus,  much  divided),  divided  into  many  parts. 
MULTISEP/TATE  (as  if  multiseptatus ,  <jnmltus,  many,  +  septum,  a  partition),  divided 

by  many  partitions. 

683 


Glossary 

MU'RICATE  (muricatus,  pointed),  rough  with  short  hard  points. 

MURIC'ULATE  (muriculatus,  dim.  of  muricatux,  pointed),  finely  muricate. 

MU'RIFORM  (mums,  wall,  +  forma,  shape),  resembling  the  arrangement  of  the  bricks 
in  the  walls  of  a  house ;  said  of  spores  having  septa  at  right  angles  to  each  other. 

MU'RINE,  MU'RINOUS  (murinus,  of  a  mouse),  mouse-colored. 

MUSH'ROOM,  a  cryptogamic  plant  of  the  class  fungi:  applied  in  a  general  sense  to 
almost  any  of  the  larger,  conspicuous  fungi,  such  as  toadstools,  puff-balls,  hydnei, 
etc.,  but  more  particularly  to  the  agaricoid  fungi  and  especially  to  the  edible 
forms. 

MI/TUALISM,  symbiosis  of  two  organisms  living  together  and  mutually  helping  and 
supporting  each  other. 

MYC,  MYCET,  MYCETO,  MYCO,  prefix  signifying  "fungus." 

MYCE'LIAL,  of  or  pertaining  to  mycelium. 

MYCE'LIUM  (Gr. — a  fungus,  +  an  excrescence),  spawn  of  fungi  resulting  from  the 
germination  of  spores;  in  agarics  e.  g.  forming  root-like  threads;  the  weft  of 
threads  from  which  the  mushroom  arises. 

MYCE'LIOID,  like  mycelium. 

MYC'ELOID,  like  a  fungus. 

MYCETOI/OGY  (Gr. — a  fungus,  -j speak),  mycology. 

MYOO LOGICAL,  relating  to  fungi. 

MYOOL'OGIST,  one  who  is  versed  in  mycology.' 

MYOOI/OGY  (Gr.— a  fungus,  -\ speak),  the  science  of  fungi,  their  structure,  classi- 
fication, etc. 

MYGX>PH/AGIST,  one  who  eats  fungi. 

MYCOPH/AGY  (Gr. — a  fungus,  -\ eat),  the  eating  of  fungi. 

NA/KED,  bare ;  without  covering  of  any  kind,  as  of  an  enveloping  membrane,  prui- 
nose,  farinaceous  or  furfuraceous  particles,  tomentum,  fragments  of  volva  or 
veil,  etc. 

NAPXIFORM  (napus,  a  turnip,  +  forma,  form),  turnip-shaped. 

NARROW,  of  a  very  slight  vertical  width. 

NAS'CENT  (nascen(t)s,  ppr.  of  nasci,  be  born),  in  the  earliest  rudimentary  condition; 
beginning  to  exist  or  to  grow. 

NATURALIZED,  said  of  a  plant  of  foreign  origin  which  thrives  as  if  indigenous. 

NAVIC'ULAR,  NAVICULOID  (navicula,  a  small  ship  or  boat),  boat-shaped;  scaphoid. 

NETTED,  covered  with  projecting,  reticulated  lines. 

NIGRESCENT,  NIG'RICANT  (nigrescen(t-)s,  ppr.  of  nigrescere,  become  black,  grow  dark), 
becoming  black,  also  blackish,  dusky,  fuscous. 

NIT'ID,  NITROUS  (nitidus,  shining,  bright,  <^nitere,  to  shine),  lustrous,  shining,  pol- 
ished. 

NI'VEOUS  (niveus,  snowy,  <m'x,  snow),  snow-white. 

NOD'ULE  (nodulus,  a  little  knot,  dim.  of  nodus,  a  knot),  a  little  knot  or  lump. 

NOD'ULOSE,  NOD'ULOUS  (nodulosus,  <^nodulus,  a  little  knot),  having  little  swellings, 
knotty. 

NON-,  not ;  prefix  giving  a  negative  sense  to  words. 

NUCLEATE,  NI/CLEATED  (nucleatus,  having  a  kernel),  having  a  nucleus  or  nuclei. 

NUCLE'OLUS  (pi.  NUCLEI)  (nucleolus,  dim.  of  nucleus,  a  little  nut),  sharply  defined 
point  often  seen  in  the  nucleus. 

684 


Glossary 

NUCLEUS  (pi.  NLT/CLEI)  (nucleus,  a  little  nut,  kernel,  stone  of  a  fruit),  the  central, 
highly  differentiated  mass  of  protoplasm  in  a  spore  or  other  cells  of  a  fungus,  con- 
trolling cell  division  and  reproduction,  functionally  the  most  important  portion 
of  a  cell,  for  in  it  the  process  of  cell  division  begins ;  sometimes  improperly  ap- 
plied to  the  oil  globules  or  guttulse  and  the  vacuoles  within  some  spores. 

OB-,  in  composition  "inversely." 

OBCLA'VATE  (as  if  obclavatus,  <o6,  from;  clava,  a  club),  inversely  club-shaped. 
OBCON'IC,  OBCON'ICAL  (ob;  conus,  a  cone),  inversely  conical. 
OBCOR'DATE  (ob;  cordatus,  heart-shaped),  like  an  inverted  heart. 
OBESE/  (obesns,  fat),  stout,  plump. 

OB'LIGATE-PARASITE,  can  only  grow  as  a  parasite ;  see  facultative  parasite. 
OB'LIGATE-SAPROPHYTE,  can  only  grow  as  a  saprophyte.     See  FACULTATIVE  SAPRO- 
PHYTE. 

OB'LONG,  two  or  three  times  longer  than  broad,  with  nearly  parallel  sides. 
OBO'VATE,  inversely  ovate,  having  the  broad  end  upward  or  toward  the  apex. 
OBPYR'IFORM  (ob  -\-pyriform,  pear-shaped),  inversely  pear-shaped. 
OBSOLETE,  indistinct,  very  imperfectly  developed ;  hardly  perceptible. 
OBTUSE/  blunt  or  rounded. 

OCHRA'CEOUS,  O'CHEROUS,  (XCHREOUS,  O'CHROID,  O'CHRY,  O'CHROUS,  O'CHERY  (ochre, 

ocher,  +  aceous),  ocher-yellow ;  brownish-yellow. 

OCHRA'CEOUS-RUFOUS  (ochraceo-rufus) .    (Yellow  ocher  -j-  burnt  sienna  +  light  red.) 
OCHRE  YELLOW  (ochraceo-flavus) .    The  color  of  the  pigment  called  yellow  ocher. 
OCHROS'POR.E  (Gr.— pale  yellow),  a  group  of  fungi  having  ocher  or  brown-colored 

spores. 

OLEAG'INOUS  (oleum,  oil),  oily  or  oil-like. 
OLIVA'CEOUS,  OLIVE  (olivaceus,  olivinus*),  a  greenish-brown  color  like  that  of  olives 

(Sepia  +  light  zinnober-green.) 

OLIVE-BUFF  (olivaceo-luteus ) .     (Yellow  ocher  -f-  cobalt-blue  -f-  white.) 
OLIVE-GREEN  (olivaceo-viridis),  a  peculiar  color,  produced  by  the  mixture  of  yellow 

and  gray,  resulting  in  a  tint  somewhat  between  olive  and  dull  yellowish-green. 
OLIVE-YELLOW  (olivaceo-flavus).     (Light-cadmium  +  black  +  white.) 
OPAQUE',  OPAKE',  mostly  used  in  the  sense  of  dull,  not  shining. 
OPER'CULUM  (operculum,  a  lid,  cover,  <operire,  cover,  shut,  conceal),  a  lid-like  cover. 
ORANGE  (aurantius) ,  a  deep  reddish-yellow  like  the  rind  of  an  orange. 
ORANGE-RUFOUS  (aurantio-rufus) .    (Neutral-orange  or  cadmium-orange  +  light-red.) 
ORANGE-YELLOW  (aurantio-flavus) ,  a  color  intermediate  between  orange  and  yellow. 
ORBIC/ULAR  (orbicularis,  <^orbiculus,  a  little  disk),  having  the  form  of  an  orb;  hav- 
ing the  shape  of  a  flat  body  nearly  circular  in  outline. 
ORDER,  the  most  important  unit  of  classification  above  the  genus. 
ORGANIC,  pertaining  to  either  living  or  dead  animal  or  vegetable  organism. 
OSXMOSE  (osmosis,  thrust,  push,  impel),  the  impulse  or  tendency  of  fluids  to  pass 

through  membranes  and  mix  or  become  diffused  through  each  other. 
OSMOXSIS  (Gr. — impulsion,  pushing),  the  diffusion  of  fluids  through  membranes;  see 

osmose. 

OSMOT'IC,  of  or  pertaining  to  or  characterized  by  osmose. 
OSXTIOLE,  OSTIXOLUM  (ostiolum,  a  little  door),  mouth  of  the  perithecium ;  orifice 

through  which  the  spores  are  discharged. 

685 


Glossary 

O'VATE  (ovatus,  egg-shaped),  egg-shaped;  having  a  figure  the  shape  of  a  longitudi- 
nal section  of  an  egg. 
O'VOID  (ovum,  egg,  -f  Gr. — form),  egg-shaped;  used  to  describe  solids. 

PALES'CENT,  inclining  to  paleness ;  becoming  pallid. 

PAI/LID,  pale,  undecided  color. 

PAI/UDINE,  PALU'DINOUS,  PAI/UDOSE,  PALUS'TRINE  (palus  (palttd-},  a  swamp),  grow- 
ing in  marshes  or  swamps. 

PAPILIONACEOUS  (papilio(n-),  butterfly),  variegated;  mottled;  marked  with  differ- 
ent colors ;  as  the  lamellae  of  some  species  of  Panaeolus  mottled  with  black  spores. 

PAPII/LA  (pi.  PAPII/L^E)  (papilla,  a  nipple,  a  teat,  also  a  bud,  pimple,  dim.  of  papula, 
a  pustule),  a  small  nipple-shaped  elevation. 

PAPILLATE  (papillatus,  ^papilla,  a  nipple),  furnished  with  one  or  more  nipple-like 
elevations. 

PAPII/LIFORM,  PAPIL'L^EFORM,  shaped  like  a  papilla. 

PAPYRACEOUS  (papyraceus,  <^papyrtis,  paper),  parchment;  resembling  the  material 
covering  a  hornet's  nest ;  pergamentous. 

PARAPH'YSIS  (pi.  PARAPH'YSES)  (Gr. — an  off-shoot),  slender,  thread-like  bodies  grow- 
ing with  the  asci;  sterile  cells  usually  club-shaped  found  with  the  reproductive 
cells  of  some  plants. 

PAR'ASITE  (Gr.— one  who  eats  at  another's  table,  a  guest),  a  plant  growing  on  or  in 
another  living  body  from  which  it  derives  all  or  part  of  its  nourishment. 

PARASITIC,  growing  on  and  deriving  support  from  another  plant. 

PARENCHYMA  (Gr.— the  peculiar  tissue  of  the  lungs,  liver,  kidney  and  spleen),  the 
fundamental  cellular  tissue  of  plants  composed  of  thin  walled,  approximately 
isodiametric  cells ;  absent  in  fungi.  See  PSEUDOPARENCHYMA  and  PROSENCHYMA. 

PARENCHYM'ATOUS,  pertaining  to,  containing,  consisting  of  or  resembling  paren- 
chyma. 

PA'RIES  (pi.  PARITIES),  wall  of  a  cavity  or  capsule. 

PARIETAL  (parietalis,  belonging  to  walls,  <^paries  (pariet-),  a  wall),  pertaining  to  or 
arising  from  a  wall. 

PARTIAL  (partialis,  divisible,  solitary,  <pars,  a  part),  secondary;  of  a  veil  clothing 
the  stem  and  reaching  to  the  edge  of  the  pileus,  but  not  extending  beyond  it; 
marginal. 

PAT'ELLATE  (patella,  a  small  pan  or  dish,  a  plate),  shaped  like  a  dish. 

PATELI/IFORM  (patella,  a  pan,  dish;  forma,  form),  having  the  shape  of  a  patella  or 
knee  pan. 

PATENT  (patents,  ppr.  patere,  lie  open),  spreading,  diverging  widely. 

PEA  GREEN,  a  pale,  dull  green  color  like  the  color  of  green  pea  pods. 

PEARL  BLUE,  a  very  pale,  purplish-blue  color. 

PEARL  GRAY  (margaritaceus),  a  very  pale,  delicate,  blue-gray  color. 

PECTINATE  (pectinatus,  comb-like,  pp.  pectinare,  <^pecten,  a  comb),  with  narrow 
teeth,  arranged  as  in  a  comb. 

PEDICEL  (pediculus,  a  little  foot),  foot  stalk;  any  short,  very  small,  stem-like  stalk. 

PEDICELLATE  (pedicellus,  dim.  of  pediculus,  a  little  foot),  having  a  pedicel  or  little 
foot  stalk. 

PELLICLE  (pellicula,  a  small  skin,  dim.  of  pellis,  skin),  a  little  or  thin  skin,  a  cuticle ; 
same  as  cortical  layer  and  cuticle. 

686 


Glossary 

PELLK/ULOSE  (pelliculosus,  <^pellicula,  dim.  of  pellis,  skin),  furnished  with  a  pel- 
licle or  distinct  skin. 
PELLU'CID  (pellucidus,  perlucidus,  transparent,  <^pelhtcere,  perlucere,  shine  through, 

be  transparent),  admitting  the  passage  of  light,  transparent,  translucent. 
PEI/TATE  (peltatus,  armed  with  a  light  shield,  <^pelta,  a  light  shield),  formed  like 

a  shield  and  fixed  to  the  stalk  by  the  center,  or  by  some  point  distinctly  within 

the  margin. 
PEN'CILED  (pencillum,  a  painter's  brush),  marked  with  fine  lines;  with  pencil-like 

hairs  either  on  the  tip  or  border. 
PEN'DULOUS,  hanging  down. 

PEN'ICILLATF.  (penicilhts,  a  pencil),  pencil-shaped;  having  a  tuft  of  short  hairs  re- 
sembling a  camel's-hair  brush. 
PEREN'NIAL  (perennis,  lasting  the  year  through,  <^per,  through,  -f  annus,  year), 

continuing  growth  from  year  to  year. 

PERGAMENEOUS  (pergamena,  parchment,  -f-  eous),  like  parchment. 
PERICLI'NAL  (Gr. — sloping  on  all  sides  +  al),  said  of  wall  cells  or  any  lines  when 

parallel  with  the  outer  surface. 
PERIDI'OLUM  (dim.  of  peridium),  a  secondary  or  interior  peridium  containing  a 

hymenium. 
PERID'IUM  (pi.  PERID'IA)  (O. — a  pouch,  wallet),  the  outer  enveloping  coat  of  the 

sporophore  in  angiocarpous  fungi,  as  in  puff-balls. 
PERIPHERAL,  of,  belonging  to  or  situated  on  the  periphery. 
PERIPH'ERY  (peripheria,  the  line  around  a  circle,  circumference,  part  of  a  circle), 

the  exterior  surface  of  any  body. 
PER/ISTOME  (peristomium,  around  a  mouth),  toothed  or  variously  shaped  ring  around 

the  mouth  or  orifice  for  discharge  of  spores  in  a  peridium. 
PERITHE'CIUM  (pi.  PERITHE'CIA)  (Gr. — a  lid),  cup-shaped  ascocarp  with  the  margin 

incurved  so  as  to  form  a  narrow,  mouthed  cavity ;  the  case  or  hollow  shell  which 

contains  the  spores. 
PER'ONATE  (peronatus,  <^pero,  a  kind  of  high  boot),  sheathed,  booted;  said  of  the 

stem  when  it  has  a  boot-like  or  stocking-like  covering. 

PERSIS'TENT,  enduring,  continuing  without  withering,  decaying  or  falling  off. 
PER'SONATE  (personatns,  masked,  <^persona,  mask),  masked  or  disguised  in  any  way. 
PERVIOUS  (pervius,  passable ;  <j>er,  through ;  via,  a  way),  having  an  open  tube-like 

passage. 

PEZI'ZOID,  resembling  a  Peziza. 

PI'LEATE  (pileatus,  capped,  bonneted),  having  a  cap  or  pileus. 
PILE'OLUS  (pi.  PILEOLI)  (pileolus,  dim.  of  pileus,  a  hat),  secondary  pileus,  arising 

from  the  division  of  a  primary  pileus ;  a  little  pileus. 
PI'LEUS  (pi.  PI'LEI)  (pileus,  a  hat),  a  part  of  the  receptacle  of  a  fungus,  e.  g.  the 

cap-like  heads  of  agarics ;  it  may  be  stipitate,  sessile,  dimidiate,  regular  or  irreg- 
ular in  form. 
PILIF'EROUS,  PILIG'EROUS,  PI'LOSE,  PI'LOUS  (pilus,  hair,  -\-ferre,  bear),  covered  with 

hair,  especially  with  fine  or  soft  hair. 

PI'LOSE  (pilosus,  <^pilus,  a  hair),  covered  with  hairs;  furry. 
PINK  (caryophyllaceus},  a  dilute,  rose-red  color. 

PINKISH-BUFF  (caryophyllaceo-luteus).     (Yellow-ocher  -f  light-red  +  white.) 
PiNKisH-ViNACEOus  (caryophyllaceo-vinaceus).     (Indian-red  -f-  white.) 
PIP-SHAPED,  the  shape  of  an  apple  seed. 

687 


Glossary 

PIXSIFORM  (pisum,  a  pea,  -{-forma,  form),  pea-shaped. 

PITH  (pit,  marrow,  kernel),  central  stuffing  in  some  stems. 

PITS  (pnteus,  a  well,  a  pit),  depressions  in  tubes  or  cells  resembling  pores;  applied 

also  to  hollow  depressions  in  the  surface  of  the  cap  of  the  Morell. 
PIT'TED,  covered  with  pits  or  small  depressions. 

PLACEN'TIFORM  (placenta,  placenta,  +  forma,  form),  in  the  form  of  a  thickened  cir- 
cular disk  depressed  in  the  middle,  both  above  and  below.  < 
PLANE,  having  a  flat  surface. 

PLI'CATE  (plicatus,  fold,  bend),  folded  like  a  fan;  plaited. 
PLUM'BEOUS  (plumbeus),  a  deep,  bluish-gray  color  like  tarnished  lead;  lead -color. 

(Lamp-black  -f  intense  blue  -f-  white.) 

PLU/MOSE,  PLU'MOUS  (plumosus,  full  of  feathers  or  down),  feathery  or  feathered. 
PLURI-,  prefixed  has  the  significance  of  "many." 

PNEUMOGAS'TRIC  (Gr.— lung,  -\ stomach),  pertaining  to  the  lungs  and  stomach,  or 

to  the  functions  of  respiration  and  digestion ;  in  anatomy  noting  several  nervous 
structures. 

POC'ULIFORM  (poculum,  cup,  -{-forma,  form),  cup-shaped. 
POLY-,  a  prefix  meaning  "many." 
POLYG'ONAL,  having  many  angles. 
POLYMORPHISM,  POL'YMORPHY,  existence  in  or  exhibition  by  the  same  species  or 

group  of  different  types  of  structure. 

POLYMORPHOUS  (Gr. — multiform,  manifold),  varying  much  in  appearance,  form  or 
structure  in  the  same  species  or  group;  characterized  by  polymorphism. 

POLYS'TICHOUS  (Gr.  —  many,  H row,  line),  arranged  in  many  rows. 

PORE  (porus,  a  pore),  in  Pyrenomycetes  same  as  ostiole;  in  Hymenomyrofcs  same 

as  tubulus  or  tube,  as  the  tubules  of  Polypores ;  also  the  mouth  of  a  tubulus. 
PO'RIFORM  (porus,  a  pore;  forma,  form),  in  the  form  of  pores. 

PO'ROSE,  PO'ROUS  (porosus,  <porws,  a  pore),  furnished  with  pores  or  tubules ;  pierced 
with  small  holes. 

PORPHYROS'POR.E  (Gr. — purple,  H seed),  a  group  of  fungi  having  purple  spores. 

PORRECT'  (porrectus,  pp.  of  porrigere,  stretch  out  before,  reach  out,  extend,  <por, 

forth,  +  regere,  stretch,  direct),  extended  forward;  stretched  forth  horizontally. 

POSTERIOR  (posterior,  compar.  of  posterns,  coming  after,  etc.),  denotes  a  position  or 

under  side  of  the  pileus  adjacent  to  the  stem  ;  the  end  of  a  lamella  next  the  stem 

is  the  posterior  end. 

PREMORSE/  (premorsus,  pp.  of  premordere,  bite  in  front  or  at  the  end),  having  the 

apex  irregularly  truncate  as  if  bitten  or  broken  off. 
PRIMORDIAL  (primordium,  pi.  primordia,  origin,  beginning),  first  formed;  existing 

from  the  beginning. 
PRIMOR'DIUM  (L. — commonly  in  pi.  primordia,  the  beginnings,  <pn'?>ms,  first,  -j- 

ordiri,  begin),  first  beginning  of  any  structure. 
PRIMROSE- YELLOW  (primulaceo-flavus} ,  a  very  delicate  pale-yellow,  of  a  more  creamy 

tint  than  sulphur-yellow.     (Pale  cadmium  -f-  white.) 
PROC'ESS,  an  outgrowth  or  projection  from  a  surface. 

PROCUM'BENT  (procumben(t-)s,  ppr.  of  procumbere,  fall  forward  or  prostrate,  <j?ro, 
forward,  +  ciimbere,  cubare,  lie),  prostrate;  unable  to  support  itself,  therefore  ly- 
ing on  the  ground. 
PROJEC/TING,  the  anterior  end  jutting  out  beyond  the  margin, 

688 


Glossary 

PIIOLIF'EROUS  (proles,  offspring;  fero,  to  bear),  applied  to  an  organ  which  gives  rise 
to  secondary  ones  of  the  same  kind. 

PRO'TEAN  (Gr. — the  name  of  a  sea-god),  exceedingly  variable;  changeable  in  form. 

PKO'TKID,  albuminoid. 

PROTO-  (Gr. — first),  an  element  in  compound  words  of  Greek  origin  meaning  "first" 
and  denoting  precedence  in  time,  rank  and  degree. 

PROTOBASID'IUM,  basidium  divided  by  transverse  septa  into  four  cells,  each  giving 
rise  to  a  spore  from  a  laterally  inserted  sterigma,  or  a  basidium  divided  longi- 
tudinally by  septa  intersecting  each  other  at  right  angles  into  four  cells  terminat- 
ing in  a  long,  tubular  sterigma. 

PROTOPLASM  (Gr. — first,  +  anything  formed  or  molded),  the  nitrogenous  fluid  of 
variable  composition  found  in  living  cells;  it  is  the  vital  substance  into  which  all 
food  is  assimilated,  and  from  which  all  parts  of  the  plant  are  formed. 

PROXIMAL  (proximus,  nearest),  pertaining  to  the  base  or  extremity  of  attachment. 

PRU'INATE,  PRU'INOSE  (as  if  pruinatus,  <^prmna,  hoar-frost),  covered  with  a  bloom 
or  powder  so  as  to  appear  as  if  frosted. 

I'RTX'IFORM  (prunum,  a  plum;  forma,  form),  plum-shaped. 

1'sKrno  (Gr. — false,  counterfeit,  etc.),  prefix  signifying  "false"  or  "spurious." 

PSKUDO-PAREN'CHYMA,  a  fungus  tissue  formed  of  closely  woven  and  felted  hyphal 
threads,  which  on  section  has  the  appearance  of  the  cellular  structure  of  true 
parenchyma. 

PUBESCENCE  (pubescen(t-)  +  ce),  general  term  to  describe  hairyness;  specifically 
covered  with  short,  soft,  downy  hairs. 

PUBES'CENT  (pubes,  of  mature  age),  covered  with  soft,  short  hairs,  downy;  hairy. 

PULLULA'TION  (pulhdare,  pp.  pullulatus,  pullulate),  a  mode  of  cell  multiplication  in 
which  a  cell  forms  a  protuberance  on  one  side  which  enlarges  to  size  of  parent 
cell  and  is  cut-off  from  it  by  a  dividing  wall;  sprouting;  budding. 

PULVERA'CEOUS,  PULVERULENT  ( pulvis  (pulver),  dust,  powder),  covered  as  if  with 
powder  or  dust. 

PUI/VINATE  (pulvinatus,  <^pulvinus,  a  cushion),  cushion-shaped. 

PUNC/TATE  (punctatus,  <^pnnctits,  a  point),  dotted  with  points. 

PUNC'TIFORM  (punctum,  point ;  forma,  form),  like  a  point  or  dot. 

PUS'TULAR,  PUSTULATE  (pustulatus,  pp.  of  pustulare,  to  blister,  <j>ustula,  a  blister, 
pimple),  having  low  elevations  shaped  like  blisters  or  pustules. 

PUTRES'CENT,  soon  decaying. 

PYR/IFORM  (pyrum,  a  pear;  forma,  form),  pear-shaped. 

QUAD-,  QUADRI-  (quadru,  four-cornered,  square,  fourfold,  <^quattuor,  four),  prefix 

signifying  "four." 
QUAD'RATE  (quadratus,  square,  pp.  of  quadrare,  make  four-cornered,  square,  <^quadra, 

a  square),  square;  sometimes  used  to  mean  "of  four  equal  parts." 
QUATER'NATE  (quatematus ,  <^quaterni,  four  each),  arranged  in  groups  of  four. 

RADIATE,  RADIATING  (radiatus,  pp.  of  radiare,  furnish  with  spokes,  give  out  rays, 

shine),  arranged  like  the  spokes  of  a  wheel. 
RADICATING  (radicatus,  pp.  of  radicare,  take  root),  rooting;  having  root-like  strands 

which  penetrate  the  matrix. 

RAD'ICLE  (radicula,  dim.  of  radix,  a  root),  a  rootlet. 
KA'MEAL,  RA'MEOUS  (rameus,  a  branch),  growing  on  twigs  or  branches. 

44  689 


Glossary 

RAMIC'ULOUS,  growing  on  branches. 

RAMIFICATION  (ramifaare,  ramify),  branching,  or  the  manner  of  branching. 
RAMIFY  (ramus,  a  branch,  -\-ficare,  </acere,  make),  to  form  branches. 
RAMOSE,  RA'MOUS  (ramosus,  full  of  branches),  having  many  small  branches. 
RECEPTACLE,  RECEPTAC'ULUM  (receptaculum,  place  to  receive  things  in),  a  part  of 

the  mushroom  extremely  varied  in  form,  consistency  and  size,  enclosing  the  or- 
gans of  reproduction;  usually  implying  a  hollowed-out  body  containing  other 

bodies ;  same  as  STROMA  ;  same  as  SPOROPHORE  ;  in  Phalloids  the  stem,  stem  and 

pileus,  or  the  clathrate  body  which  supports  the  gleba. 

REFLEXED',  REFLECTED  (reflexus,  pp.  of  reflectere,  reflect),  turned  or  bent  back. 
REMOTE'  (remotus,  pp.  removere,  remove),  of  gills  which  do  not  reach  the  stem,  but 

leave  a  free  space  between  them  and  it. 
REN'IFORM  (ren,  the  kidney  ;  forma,  form),  kidney-shaped. 
REPAND'  (repandus,  bent  backward),  bent  or  turned  up  or  back;  having  a  slightly 

undulating  or  sinuous  margin. 
REP/LICATE  (replicatus,  pp.  of  replicare,  fold  or  bend  back),  folded  back  upon  itself 

as  when  the  margin  of  a  cup  turns  outward  and  downward. 
RESU'PINATE  (resupinatus,  pp.  of  resupinare,  throw  on  the  back),  attached  to  the 

matrix  by  the  back,  the  hymenium  facing  outward;  said  of  fungi  spread  over  the 

matrix  without  any  stem  and  with  the  hymenium  upwards. 
RETIC'ULATE,  RE'TIFORM  (reticulatvs,  <jreticulnm,  a  little  net),  marked  with  crossed 

lines  like  the  meshes  of  a  net. 
REV'OLUTE  (revolutus,  pp.  of  revolvere,  revolved),  rolled  backwards  or  upwards;  of 

the  margin  of  a  pileus  e.  g.  the  opposite  of  involute. 
RHI'ZINES,  RHI'ZOIDS  (Gr.  —  root,  -f  ),  delicate  filiform  hyphal  branches  which  serve 

to  attach  the  sporophore  to  the  substratum  and  supply  nourishment. 
RAMOSE,  RI'MOUS  (rimosus,  <rima,  a  crack),  cracked,  full  of  clefts. 
RHI'ZOMORPHS  (Gr. — root,  +  L.— forma,  form),  long,  branching  or  anastomosing, 

rigid,  root-like  cords  of  mycelium  with  a  dark  or  black  exterior,  often  growing 

between  the  bark  and  timber  or  about  and  penetrating  the  roots  of  dead  and 

living  trees,  produced  by  Agaricus  nielleus  and  various  other  fungi. 
RHIZOMOR'PHOID  (Gr.— root,  +  form),  root-like  in  form. 
RHODOSPO'R.*:  (Gr. — rose,  +  seed),  rose  or  pink  spores. 
RIM'ULOSE,  RIM'ULOUS  (rimula,  a  little  crack),  covered  with  small  cracks. 
RIND,  cortex ;  bark. 
RING,  a  part  of  the  veil  adhering  in  the  form  of  a  ring  to  the  stem  of  an  agaric ; 

same  as  annulus. 
RI'VOSE  (rivus,  a  stream,  channel,  groove),  marked  with  furrows  which  do  not  run 

in  parallel  directions. 

RIV'ULOSE  (rivulosus,  <^rivula,  a  little  stream),  marked  with  lines  like  rivulets. 
ROOT'ING,  same  as  radicating. 
ROSACEOUS   (rosaceus,  pallidoroseus,  caryophyllaeeus) ,   a  very  pure  purplish-pink 

color,  like  some  varieties  of  roses. 

ROSE-RED  (roseus,  rosaceo-ruber) ,  the  purest  possible  purplish-red  color. 
ROS'TRATE  (rostratus,  having  a  beak,  hook  or  crooked  pofnt,  <^rostrum,  a  beak), 

beaked ;  having  a  process  resembling  the  beak  of  a  bird. 
ROTUND',  round  or  nearly  so. 
RUBES'CENT  (rubescents,  ppr.  of  rubescere,  become  red,  <rw6ere,  be  red),  tending  to 

a  red-color. 

690 


Glossary 

RUBIGINOUS  (rubiginosus,  <^rubigo,  rust),  rust-colored. 

RUFES'CENT  (rufescere,  to  become  reddish),  tending  to  rufous  or  a  dull  red  color. 

RUF'FLED,  very  strongly  undulate. 

RU'FOUS  (rufiis},  a  brownish-red  color  like  the  pigment  called  Venetian-red,  light 

red,  Indian-red,  red  chalk,  etc.,  which  represents  various  shades  of  rufous.    The 

typical  shade  is  light  red. 

RU'GOSE  (mgosiis,  <^ruya,  a  wrinkle),  wrinkled. 
RU'GULOSE  (mguJa,  dim.  of  ruga,  a  wrinkle),  minutely  rugose. 
RUN'CINATE  (runcina,   a  plane),  irregularly   saw-toothed,   the  divisions  or  teeth 

hooked  backward. 
RUSSET  (russatus),  a  bright  tawny-brown  color  with  a  tinge  of  rusty. 

SAB'ULINE,  SAB'ULOSE  (pabulum,  sand,  +  ine),  growing  in  sandy  places. 

SAC'CATE  (saccus,  a  bag),  in  the  form  of  a  sack  or  pouch. 

SACCHARINE  (saccharon,  sugar),  of  or  resembling  sugar,  covered  with  shining  grains 
like  those  of  sugar. 

SAC'CULE,  SAC'CULUS  (sacculus,  dim.  of  saccus,  a  bag),  a  small  sack  or  pouch. 

SALMON-COLOR  (salmonaceus)  (carneits),  a  color  intermediate  between  flesh  color  and 
orange,  like  the  flesh  of  the  salmon.  (Saturn  red  or  orange  chrome  -f  white.) 

BANGUI X'EOUS  (sanguineus,  of  blood,  bloody),  blood-colored ;  of  a  deep,  somewhat 
brownish-red  color;  like  the  color  of  clotted  blood. 

SAP'ID  (sapidus,  having  taste,  savory,  <sapere,  have  a  taste),  agreeable  to  the  taste. 

SAPROGENOUS  (Gr. — rotten,  +  Gr. — producing),  growing  in  decaying  or  decompos- 
ing animal  or  vegetable  matter. 

SAP'ROPHYTE  (Gr. — rotten,  +  Gr. — a  plant),  a  plant  that  lives  on  decaying  vege- 
table or  animal  matter. 

SAPROPHYT'IC,  living  upon  and  deriving  its  sustenance  from  dead  organic  matter. 

SCA'BRATE,  SCABROUS  (scabrosus,  <^scaber,  rough),  rough  on  the  surface;  rugged. 

SCALAR'IFORM  (sccilaria,  a  flight  of  steps ;  forma,  form),  in  the  form  of  a  ladder. 

SCAPH'OID  (Gr. — like  a  bowl  or  boat,  -f-  Gr.— form),  boat-shaped. 

SCA'RIOSE,  SCABIOUS  (scariosus,  from  scaria,  a  thorny  shrub),  thin,  dry,  membra- 
naceous ;  applied  to  a  shriveled  membrane. 

SCIS'SILE  (scissilis,  to  cleave),  capable  of  being  easily  split  or  cleft;  said  of  gills 
which  can  easily  be  split  into  two  plates. 

ScLERiTric,  SCLE'ROID,  SCLE^OSE,  SCLE'ROSED  (Gr. — hard,  rough,  harsh),  having  a 
hard  texture. 

SCLERO'TIOID  (Gr. — hard,  +  resemblance),  in  the  form  of  a  sclerotium;  a  form  as- 
sumed by  the  mycelium  of  certain  fungi. 

SCLEROTIUM  (pi.  SCLEROTIA)  (Gr. — hard),  hard,  black,  compact,  mostly  tuber-like 
body,  which  is  the  resting  stage  of  certain  fungi,  as  in  Peziza  tuberosa ;  it  remains 
dormant  for  a  time  and  then  sends  up  shoots,  which  develop  into  sporophores  at 
the  expense  of  the  reserve  material. 

SCROBIC^LATE  (scrobiculdtus,  <^scrobiculus,  dim.  of  scrobis,  a  trench),  marked  with 
small  pits ;  furrowed. 

SCRUPOSE,  rough  with  small  irregular  prominences. 

SCUXTELLATE  ( scutellatus ,  <scutella,  a  salver,  dish),  shaped  like  a  plate  or  platter. 

SECTION,  a  cutting,  cutting  off,  excision,  amputation,  etc. 

SEMI-,  prefix  meaning  "half"  or  "partial." 

691 


Glossary 

SEPARABLE  (separabilis,  that  can  be  separated,  <^separare,  separate),  capable  of  be- 
ing detached. 

SEPARATING,  becoming  detached,  as  lamellae  from  the  stem,  or  resupinate  fuugi 

Jl  from  the  matrix. 

SE'PIA,  a  deep,  dark -brown  color,  with  a  little  red  in  its  composition.  The  pigment 
called  sepia  is  a  carbonaceous  matter,  prepared  from  the  natural  ink  of  a  species 
of  cuttle-fish. 

SEP'TATE  (septum,  a  fence),  having  partitions. 

SEP'TUM  (pi.  SEPTA)    (septum,  a  fence),  partition. 

SE'RIATE  (seriatus,  pp.  of  seriare,  arrange  in  a  series),  arranged  in  rows. 

SERIC'EOUS  (sericum,  silk),  silky. 

SEPARATE  (serratus,  saw-shaped),  having  marginal  teeth  shaped  like  saw  teeth. 

SER'RULATE  (serrulatus,  <^semila,  dim.  of  serra,  a  saw),  minutely  serrate. 

SES'SILE  (sessilis,  <^sessus,  pp.  sedere,  sit),  attached  by  the  base;  having  no  stem  or 
support. 

SE'TA  (pi.  SE'TJS)  (seta,  a  bristle),  a  stiff-bristle-like  hair. 

SETACEOUS,  SETIG'EROUS,  SE'TOSE  (seta,  bristle),  beset  with  bristles. 

SE'TOSE  (setosus,  abounding  in  bristles),  bristly. 

SET'ULOSE  (setula  +  ose),  finely  setose;  covered  with  setules. 

SIG'MOID  (Gr. — of  the  shape  of  a  sigma),  said  of  an  elongated  spore  having  the  ends 
bent  slightly  in  opposite  directions;  S-shaped. 

SIMPLE,  in  botany  not  formed  by  a  union  of  similar  parts  or  groups  of  parts ;  a  sim- 
ple stem  or  trunk  is  one  not  divided  at  the  base. 

SINUATE,  SIN'UOSE,  SIN'UOUS  (sinuatus,  pp.  sinuare,  <SZ'«MS,  a  curve),  waved;  ser- 
pentine; applied  to  an  edge  the  outline  of  which  is  alternately  concave  and  con- 
vex; a  sinuate  lamella  has  a  sudden  wave  or  sinus  in  its  edge  near  the  stem. 

SI'NUS  (sinus,  the  fold  of  a  garment,  a  curve,  hollow),  a  rounded  inward  curve  be- 
tween two  projecting  lobes. 

SLATE-COLOR  (schistaceus) ,  a  dark  gray  or  blackish  gray  color,  less  bluish  in  tint  than 
plumbeous  or  lead  color. 

SMOKE-GRAY  (fumidio-canus} .     (Black  -f-  white  +  raw  umber.) 

SMOOTH,  glabrous ;  applied  to  a  surface  which  is  destitute  of  hairs ;  a  surface  may  be 
uneven  and  yet  smooth. 

SOR'DID  (sordidus,  dirty,  filthy,  mean,  <^sordere,  be  dirty),  of  a  dingy,  dirty  hue. 

SPADIC'EOUS  (spadiceus,  <^spadix,  a  palm  branch),  date-brown,  duller  and  darker 
than  bay-brown. 

SPATH'ULATE,  SPAT'ULATE  (spathula,  dim.  of  spatha,  a  broad,  flat  instrument  for  stir- 
ring liquids),  shaped  like  a  spathula  or  spoon;  oblong  or  rounded  and  flattened 
at  the  top  with  a  long,  narrow,  attenuate  base. 

SPE'CIES,  an  individual,  or  collectively  those  individuals  which  differ  specifically 
from  all  other  members  of  a  genus  and  which  do  not  differ  from  each  other  ex- 
cept within  narrow  limits  of  variability,  and  which  produce  by  propagation  other 
individuals  of  the  same  kind. 

SPECIFIC  (species,  kind,  -f  ficus,  </ocere,  make),  of,  pertaining  to,  constituting, 
peculiar  to,  characteristic  of,  designating  species  or  a  species  ;  not  generic,  not  of 
wider  application  than  to  a  species. 

SPHAG'NUM  (Gr. — a  kind  of  moss),  peat  or  bog  moss. 

SPHERICAL,  SPHE'ROID,  of  the  shape  of  a  ball  or  globe  or  nearly  so. 

SPIC'ULAR,  SPIC'ULATE,  SPIC'ULOUS  (spicule  -f  ar),  covered  with  spicules. 

692 


Glossary 

SPIC'ULE  (spicula,  a  little  sharp  point),  in  Hymenomycetes  one  of  the  small  projec- 
tions on  the  basidia  which  bear  the  spores. 

SPINDLE  (spinula,  dim.  of  spina,  a  thorn),  a  small  spine  or  prickle. 

SPORAN/GIOPHORE  (sporangium  +  Gr. — bear),  special  mycelial  branch  bearing  a 
sporangium. 

SPORANGIUM  (pi.  SPORANGIA)  (spora,  a  spore,  +  Gr. — vessels),  sac  producing  spores 
endogenously. 

SPORE  (Gr. — a  sowing,  seed  time,  seed,  etc.),  the  reproductive  body  of  cryptogams 
analogous  to  the  seed  of  phenogams;  the  terms  spores,  sporidia.  sporules  and 
conidia  have  been  applied  somewhat  indiscriminately  to  all  spore  bodies. 

SPORIDIF'ERA,  a  class  of  fungi  in  which  the  spores  are  enclosed  in  asci. 

SPORIDIF'EROUSS  SPORIDIIF'EROUS  (sporidium,  -f  ferre,  bear),  bearing  sporidia;  ap- 
plied to  a  fungus  of  the  class  Sporidifera. 

SPORID'IUM  (pi.  SPORIDIA)  (dim.  of  Gr. — spore),  an  ascospore  or  endospore.  See 
SPORE. 

SPORIF'ERA,  a  class  of  fungi  in  which  the  spores  are  free,  naked  or  soon  exposed. 

SPORIF'EROUS  (spora,  spore  -\-ferre,  bear),  bearing  spores;  applied  to  a  fungus  of 
the  class  Sporifera. 

SPO'ROCARP  (spora,  spore,  +  Gr. — fruit),  in  Ascomycetes  the  entire  fruit,  composed 
of  the  ascophore  and  the  asci. 

SPOROG'ENOUS  (spora,  spore,  -f-  Gr. — producing),  producing  spores. 

SPO'ROPHORE  (spora,  spore),  branch  or  portion  of  thallus  which  bears  spores  or 
spore-mother-cells;  said  to  be  simple  or  filamentous  when  consisting  of  a  single 
hypha  or  branch  of  ahypha;  compound,  when  formed  by  the  cohesion  of  the 
ramifications  of  separate  hyphal  branches  (the  common  mushroom  is  a  compound 
sporophore.) 

SPORT,  an  animal  or  plant,  or  any  part  of  one  that  varies  suddenly  or  singularly 
from  the  normal  type  of  structure,  and  is  usually  of  transient  character  or  not 
perpetuated;  not  so  much  deformed  as  "monster." 

SPO'RULE,  see  under  SPORE. 

SQUA'MA  (pi.  SQUA'M^E)  (squama,  a  scale),  a  scale  or  scale-like  appendage. 

SQUA'MOSE,  SQUA'MOUS  (squamosiis,  <^squama,  a  scale),  covered  with  appressed 
scales;  scale-like. 

SQUAM'ULA,  SQUAM'ULE  (dim.  of  squama,  a  scale),  a  small  squama. 

SQUAM'ULOSE  (squamulosus,  <^squamula,  dim.  of  squama,  a  scale),  covered  with 
small  scales. 

SQUAR/ROSE  (squarrosus,  scaly),  rough  with  scales ;  roughened  with  projecting  points. 

STALK,  stipe;  any  stem-like  supporting  organ. 

STEI/LATE  (stellatus,pp.  of  stellare,  set  or  cover  with  stars,  <^stella,  star),  star-shaped. 

STERIG'MA  (pi.  STERIGMATA)  (Gr. — a  prop,  support),  stalk-like  branch  of  a  basidium 
bearing  a  spore. 

STER'ILE,  not  fertile;  producing  no  spores. 

STIPE  (L. — a  stock,  trunk,  post,  etc.),  stalk  of  a  mushroom. 

STIP'ITATE  (stipitatus,  <^stipes,  a  stalk),  stemmed,  elevated  on  a  stipe. 

STO'MA  (pi.  STO'MATA)  (Gr. — the  mouth,  opening,  entrance,  out-let,  etc.),  a  mouth 
or  aperture;  little  orifices  in  the  epidermis  of  leaves,  etc.,  opening  into  air  cav- 
ities or  intercellular  spaces. 

STRAIGHT,  applied  to  margin  of  pileus  when  not  involute. 

STRAMIN'EOUS  (stramineus,  made  of  straw,  <istramen,  straw),  straw-colored. 

693 


Glossary 

STRA'TOSE  (stratum,  a  layer),  arranged  in  distinct  layers  or  strata. 

STRATUM  (pi.  STRA'TA)  (L. — coverlet,  bed,  pavement,  etc.),  a  layer. 

STRAW-COLOR,  STRAW -YELLOW  (gtraminetu),  a  very  light  impure  yellow,  like  cured 
straw. 

STRI'A  (pi.  STRIDE)  (stria,  a  channel,  furrow,  hollow),  parallel  or  radiating  lines  or 
markings. 

STRI'ATE  (striatus,  pp.  of  striare,  <sin'«,  a  channel,  flute  of  a  column),  marked  with 
striae. 

STRI'GOSE  (strigosus,  <^striga,a  swath),  rough  with  stiff  hairs. 

STKOISI i/i FORM  (strobilus  -\-forma,  form),  resembling  a  pine  cone. 

STRO'MA  (pi.  STRO'MATA)  (stroma,  a  covering,  coverlet),  a  mass  in  which  another 
object  is  imbedded ;  a  compact  mass  of  mycelium  in  the  form  of  a  cushion,  crust, 
club  or  branched  expansion  upon  or  in  which  perithecia  or  other  organs  of  fructi- 
fication are  borne. 

STUFFED,  of  a  stem  filled  with  material  of  a  different  texture  from  its  walls. 

SUB-  (sub,  under,  before,  near),  prefixed  signifies  "somewhat,"  "almost"  or 
"under." 

SU'BERIZED  (sitber,  cork,  +  ized),  transformed  into  suberin  or  cork. 

SUB-EROSE'  (sub,  under,  -f-  erosus,  pp.  of  erodere,  gnaw  off  or  away,  consume), 
slightly  erose ;  appearing  as  if  eaten  or  gnawed  on  the  margin. 

SU'BEROSE  (suber,  cork),  corky. 

SUBGLE'BA  (sub,  under;  gleba,  a  clod),  basal  portion  of  the  gleba. 

SUBIC'ULUM  (subiculnm,  an  under  layer),  a  more  or  less  thin  and  dense  felt  of  hyphee 
covering  the  matrix ;  upon  its  surface  is  spread  the  hymenium,  or  from  it  arise 
stalks  supporting  sporophores. 

SUBSTRATUM  (substratum,  neut.  of  substratus,  spread  under),  sometimes  used  in  the 
sense  of  matrix. 

SUBTERRANEAN,  under  ground. 

SU'BULATE,  SU'BULIFORM  (subulatus,  <subula,  an  awl,  <snerc,  sew),  awl-shaped. 

SUC'CULENT  (succulentus,  full  of  juice,  sappy,  <swccws,  prop,  sucus,  juice),  fleshy, 
juicy. 

SUL'CATE  (sitlcatus,  pp.  sitlcare,  <^stilcits,  a  furrow),  marked  with  furrows;  grooved. 

SUL'CUS  (pi.  SUL'CI)   (sulcus,  a  furrow,  trench),  groove  or  furrow. 

SULPHU'REOUS,  SULFU/REOUS  (sulfureus,  sulphureus,  of  or  like  sulphur,  <s?<7/«r,  sul- 
phur), sulphur-colored. 

SULPHUR  YELLOW  (sulphureus),  a  very  pale  pure  yellow  color,  less  orange  in  tint 
than  dilute  gamboge  or  lemon  yellow. 

SUPER-,  SUPRA-  (super,  over,  above,  beyond),  prefix  meaning  "above"  in  position  or 
degree. 

SUPERFICIAL  (superjicialis,  of  or  pertaining  to  the  surface,  situated  on  or  close  to 
the  surface. 

SUPERIOR  (superus,  <^super,  above),  the  upper  surface;  or  applied  to  a  ring  when 
it  is  near  the  apex  of  the  stem. 

SUPRAVENAL  (super,  over,  above;  vena,  vein),  situated  or  occurring  above  veins. 

SYM'BION,  SYMXBIONT  (Gr. — live  together  with),  an  organism  which  lives  in  a  state 
of  symbiosis. 

SYMBIOSIS  (Gr. — a  living  together),  the  co-existence  in  more  or  less  mutual  inter- 
dependence of  two  different  organisms ;  mutualism ;  mutual  parasitism ;  commen- 

694 


Glossary 

salisin;  consortism;  with  some  authors  commensalism  implies  an  association  less 
necessary  or  mutually  helpful  than  symbiosis. 

SYMBIOTIC,  living  in  that  kind  of  consociation  called  symbiosis. 

SYN'ONYM  (Gr. — a  word  having  the  same  name  with  another),  a  discarded  name  for 
a  species  or  genus;  either  of  two  or  more  names  for  the  same  species  or  genus. 

SYNONYMOUS,  expressing  the  same  idea  ;  equivalent  in  meaning;  having  the  char- 
acter of  a  synonym. 

TAPE'S i UM  (tapesium,  tapestry,  carpet),  a  carpet  or  layer  of  mycelium  on  which  the 
receptacle  is  situated. 

TAWNY  (fitlvus,  fulvescens,  alutaceus),  the  color  of  tanned  leather.  (Nearly  synony- 
mous with  fulvous.)  (Neutral  orange  4-  raw  sienna.) 

TAWNY  OCHRACEOUS  (fulvo-ochraceus) .   (Yellow  ocher  +  burnt  sienna  +  raw  umber.) 

TAWNY  OLIVE  (fulvo-olivaceus).     (Yellow  ocher  +  raw  umber.) 

TEXA'CEOCS  (tenax  <*tenac-),  holding  fast,  <^tenere,  hold),  tough. 

TK'RETE  (teret,  round,  smooth),  cylindrical  or  nearly  so,  having  a  circular,  trans- 
verse section ;  top-shaped. 

TERRES'TRIAL  (terrestris,  of  or  belonging  to  the  earth  -f-  al),  growing  on  the  ground. 

TES'SELATED  (tesseMatus,  made  of  small  square  stones,  checkered  -f-  ed),  arranged  in 
small  squares;  checkered  or  reticulated  in  a  regular  manner. 

TESTA'CEOUS  (testaceim,  consisting  of  tiles  or  sherds,  <^testa,  tile,  shell),  same  as 
brick-red. 

TETAN'IC  (tetanicus,  affected  with  tetanus),  pertaining  to  or  characterized  by  tetanus ; 
tetanic  spasm ;  tonic  spasm  of  the  voluntary  muscles  as  seen  in  tetanus,  strychnic 
poisoning,  etc. 

TETEA-  (quatuor,  four),  prefix  signifying  "four." 

TET'RASPORE  (Gr. — four,  +  seed),  four  spores  forming  one. 

TIIALA'MIUM  (Gr. — inner  chamber,  bedroom,  bed),  synonym  for  hymenium. 

THAI/LOGEN  (Gr. — a  young  shoot,  -f-  Gr. — producing),  same  as  thallophyte. 

THAI/LOPHYTE  (Gr. — a  young  shoot,  -f-  Gr. — a  plant),  one  of  the  so-called  "lower 
cryptogams,"  plants  in  which  the  vegetative  body  usually  consists  of  a  thallus. 

THAI/LUS  (Gr. — a  young  shoot  or  twig),  a  vegetative  body  which  is  not  differentiated 
into  a  true  root,  stem  and  leaf,  has  no  true  vessels  or  woody  fiber;  in  fungi  it  is 
the  whole  body  of  the  plant  not  serving  directly  as  an  organ  of  reproduction,  i.  e.: 
mycelium,  if  any,  and  sporophore  but  not  including  the  hymenial  layer. 

THE'CA  (Gr. — a  case,  box,  receptacle,  +  put,  place),  a  sac  or  case,  generally  used  in 
the  sense  of  capsule. 

THF/CASPORE,  the  spore  thus  enclosed  by  the  wall  of  the  sac;  an  ascospore. 

TIS'SUE  (texere,  weave),  the  cellular  fabric  out  of  which  plant  structures  are 
built  up. 

TOAD'STOOL  (toad  +  stool),  a  general  name  applicable  to  any  form  of  visible  fun- 
gus ;  usually  applied  to  fleshy  fungi  as  distinguished  from  the  molds,  smuts,  etc. 
Mushroom  is  a  name  given  to  a  few  species  of  toadstools  known  to  commerce, 
and  wrongly  to  other  edible  species,  of  which  there  are  many. 

TOMEN'TOSE,  TOMENTOUS  (tomentum,  wool,  etc.),  densely  pubescent  with  matted  wool 
or  tomentum. 

TOMEN'TUM  ^tomentum,  a  stuffing  of  wool,  hair,  feathers,  etc.),  a  species  of  pubes- 
cence consisting  of  longish,  soft,  entangled  hairs  pressed  close  to  the  surface. 

TORN,  said  of  pores  which  are  superficially  rough  and  jagged  as  if  torn. 

695 


Glossary 

TO'ROSE,  TOR'ULOSE  (torosus,  full  of  muscle  or  flesh,  <torus,  a  bulging,  protuber- 
ance), swollen  at  intervals. 

TORSION  (torquere,  pp.  tortus,  twist,  wring),  the  state  of  being  twisted  spirally. 

TOR'SIVE  (torsus,  pp.  torquere,  twist),  spirally  twisted. 

TOR'TUOUS,  bending  or  turning  in  various  directions. 

Tox'ic  (toxicum,  poison),  poisonous. 

TRA'MA  (trama,  the  weft  or  filling  of  a  web),  the  substance  proceeding  from  the 
hymenophore,  between  the  plates  of  (central  in)  the  gills  in  Agarics,  and  be- 
tween the  double  membranes  of  which  the  dissepiments  of  the  pores  are  com- 
posed in  Polyporei ;  the  hyphal  plates  forming  the  walls  of  the  chambers  of  the 
gleba,  in  Gasteromycetes. 

TRANSLU'CENT  (translucen(t)s,  ppr.  of  translucere,  shine  across  or  through,  < trans, 
over,  -f-  lucere,  shine),  transmitting  rays  of  light  without  being  transparent. 

TRANS'VERSE  (transversus,  lying  across),  from  side  to  side. 

TREM'ELLOID,  TREM'ELLOSE  (tremo,  to  tremble),  of  a  gelatinous  or  jelly-like  con- 
sistency ;  resembling  Tremella. 

TRI-  (tri,  three),  prefix  signifying  "three." 

TRI'FID  (trifldus,  <^tres  (tri-)  three,  +  findere,  cleave),  divided  half  way  into  three 
parts  by  linear  sinuses  with  straight  margins;  three-cleft. 

TRIQUETROUS  (triquetrus,  three-cornered,  triangular),  having  three  acute  angles 
with  concave  faces;  triangular;  applied  to  the  vertical  radial  section  of  some 
dimidiate  pilei;  three-edged. 

TRUNCATE  (truncatus,  pp.  truncare,  cut  off),  ending  abruptly  as  if  cut  short;  cut 
squarely  off. 

TU'B^EFORM,  TU'BIFORM  (tuba,  a  tube ;  forma,  form),  trumpet-shaped,  tubular. 

TUBE,  TU'BULE  (tubus,  a  pipe,  tube),  in  polypores,  tube  lined  with  hymenium ;  same 
as  pore. 

TU'BER  (tuber,  a  bump,  swelling,  knob  on  plant,  etc.),  fleshy  body,  usually  of  a 
rounded  or  oblong  form,  produced  on  underground  stems,  as  the  potato  or  arti- 
choke; a  genus  of  underground  fungi. 

TU'BERCLE  (tuberculum,  dim.  of  tuber,  a  swelling),  a  small,  wart-like  excrescence;  a 
small  swelling. 

TUBERCULAR,  TUBER'CULATE,  TUBER'CULOSE  (tuberculum,  tubercle),  having  or  cov- 
ered with  tubercles ;  formed  like  or  forming  a  tubercle. 

TUBER'CULIFORM  (tuberculum,  tubercle,  -\-forma,  form),  shaped  like  a  tubercle. 

TUXBEROUS  (tuberosus,  full  of  lumps  or  protuberances,  <^tuber,  a  knob,  lump),  round- 
ed and  swollen;  resembling  a  tuber. 

TU'BULAR  (tubulus,  a  small  pipe),  hollow  and  cylindrical. 

TU'BULUS  (pi.  TUBULI)  (tubulus,  tube),  same  as  tube;  pore. 

TU'MID  (tumidus,  swollen,  swelling,  <^tumere,  swell),  swollen,  slightly  inflated. 

TUR'BINATE  (turbinatus,  shaped  like  a  top  or  cone),  top-shaped ;  shape  of  an  invert- 
ed cone. 

TUR'GID  (turgidus,  swollen,  <^turgere,  swell  out),  thickened  as  if  swollen;  distended 
with  liquid. 

TUR'GOR  (turgere,  swell),  the  state  of  being  turgid ;  a  state  of  distension  and  tension 
of  plant  cells  and  parts  by  reason  of  their  fullness  of  liquid. 

TYPE,  a  perfect  specimen  or  individual  exemplifying  the  essential  characters  of  the 
species  to  which  it  belongs;  the  original  specimen  from  which  a  species  was 
described. 

696 


Glossary 

TYP'ICAL,  agreeing  closely  with  the  characters  assigned  to  a  group  or  species. 

• 

ULIG/INOSE,  ULIGXINOUS  (uliginosus,  full  of  moisture,  damp,  <^uligo,  moisture,  marsh- 
iness), growing  in  marshes  or  swamps. 

UI/TIMATE  (ultimatus,  farthest,  last,  pp.  of  ultimare,  come  to  an  end,  <^ultimus,  last, 
finish),  farthest,  last. 

UM'BER,  UM'BRINOUS  (umbra,  shade,  shadow),  the  color  of  the  pigment  called  raw 
umber. 

UMBII/ICATE  (umbilicatus,  <^umbilicus,  navel),  with  a  central  depression  or  rounded 
pit;  having  a  navel-like  depression. 

UMBILICUS  (umbilicus,  navel),  a  navel-like  depression. 

UMBO  (boss  of  a  shield),  applied  to  the  central  elevation  of  the  cap  of  some  mush- 
rooms. 

UMXBONATE  (umbonatus,  <^umbo,  the  boss  of  a  shield),  with  a  central  boss-like  eleva- 
tion. 

UN'CINATE  (uncinatus,  <^uncinus,  a  hook),  hooked;  forming  a  hook. 

UNDULATE,  UN'DATE  (nndatus,  pp.  of  undare,  rise  in  waves,  <^imda,  a  wave),  having 
the  surface  near  the  margin  alternately  concave  and  convex ;  waved. 

UNEQUAL,  applied  to  gills  when  of  unequal  lengths ;  to  a  stem  not  of  uniform  thick- 
ness. 

UNEVEN,  said  of  surfaces  that  are  irregular,  striate,  sulcate,  etc. 

UNGULATE,  UN'GULOUS  (ungulatus,  having  claws  or  hoofs,  <^ungula,  claw,  talon, 
hoof),  hoof-shaped. 

UNI-,  prefix  signifying  "one." 

UNICOI/OROUS  (unicolor,  having  one  color,  -f  ous),  of  a  uniform  color;  of  the  same 
color. 

UNISE'RIATE  (unus,  one,  +  series,  series),  arranged  in  one  row. 

UNIVERSAL  (universus,  whole),  said  of  the  veil  or  volva  which  entirely  envelopes 
the  fungus  when  young. 

UNSEP'TATE  (un,  not;  septum,  a  fence),  having  no  partitions. 

UR'CEOLATE  (urceolus,  a  little  pitcher,  -\-  ate),  shaped  like  a  pitcher  with  a  contract- 
ed mouth. 

U'TERUS  (uterus,  the  womb,  belly),  same  as  peridium  in  Gastromycetes. 

U'TRICLE  (utriculus,  a  little  leather  bag  or  bottle,  etc.),  any  thin  bladder-like  or 
bottle-like  body. 

VAC'UOLATE,  VAC'UOLATED  (vacuole  +  ate),  provided  with  vacuoles. 

VAC'UOLE  (vacuolum,  dim.  of  vacuum,  an  empty  space),  a  cavity  of  greater  or  less 
size  within  the  protoplasmic  mass  of  active  vegetable  cells  filled  with  water  or 
cell-sap,  as  it  is  called. 

VAG'INATE  (vagina,  a  sheath),  furnished  with  or  contained  in  a  sheath;  sheathed. 

VAGUE,  indefinite,  indistinct. 

VANDYKE  BROWN,  a  rich  deep  brown,  very  similar  to  burnt  umber,  but  rather  less 
reddish. 

VA'RIABLE  (variabilis,  changeable,  <^variare,  change),  said  of  a  species  which  em- 
braces many  individuals  which  depart  more  or  less  from  the  type  of  the  group. 

VARIEGATED,  marked  with  different  colors ;  mottled ;  same  as  PAPILIONACEOUS. 

VARIETY,  a  subdivision  of  a  species  with  minor  characteristics  uniformly  varying 
from  the  type ;  an  incipient  species. 

697 


Glossary 

VAS'CULAR  (vasculum,  a  small  vessel),  consisting  of.  relating  to  or  furnished  with 
vessels  or  ducts. 

V ATI/TED,  arched  like  the  roof  of  the  mouth. 

VEIL,  VE'LUM  (velnm,  a  veil),  a  covering  of  various  texture  more  or  less  completely 
enwrapping  a  fungus ;  occurring  chiefly  among  the  Agaricini ;  partial  or  marginal 
reiJ,  a  special  envelope  extending  from  the  margin  of  the  pileus  to  the  stem  en- 
closing the  gills ;  universal  veil  or  volva,  a  special  envelope  enclosing  the  entire 
plant  in  the  young  state,  either  concrete  with  the  cuticle  of  the  pileus  as  in  Lepi- 
ota  or  discrete  as  in  Amanita,  ultimately  ruptured  by  the  expanding  pilens,  a 
membranaceous  or  fibrous  or  granulose  coating  stretched  over  the  mouth  of  an 
apothecium  or  cup  soon  breaking  into  fragments. 

VEINS,  swollen  wrinkles  on  the  sides  of,  and  at  the  base  between  the  gills,  often 
connected  to  form  cross  partitions,  (b)  so-called,  the  rounded,  obtuse-edged  gills 
found  upon  Cantharellus,  Craterellus,  (c)  the  vein-like  protuberances  upon  the 
surface  of  some  fungi. 

VEI/IFORM,  VELAMEN'TOUS  (velum,  covering;  forma,  form),  resembling  or  serving  as 
a  veil ;  of  a  thin  veil-like  covering. 

VE'LUM,  veil. 

VELU'TINE,  VELU'TINOUS  (velutum,  velvet,  +  ine),  velvety. 

VE'NATE,  VEINED,  VE'NOSE,  VE'NOUS  (vena,  vein,  artery),  intersected  by  swollen 
wrinkles  below  and  on  the  sides. 

VEN'TRAL  (ventralis,  of  or  pertaining  to  the  belly,  stomach,  < renter,  belly,  stomach), 
applied  to  the  under  side  of  pileus;  opposite  to  "dorsal." 

VEN'TRICOSE  (venter,  the  belly),  swollen  in  the  middle;  bellied. 

VERMICULAR,  VERMIC'ULATE  (vermiculus,  a  worm),  worm-shaped. 

VERMILION  (cinnabarinus,  cinnabar  ino-ruber),  a  very  fine  red  color,  lighter  and  less 
rosy  than  carmine,  and  not  so  pure  or  rich  as  scarlet. 

VER'NAL  (vernalis,  of  the  spring,  vernal,  <^ver,  spring),  of  or  pertaining  to  the  spring. 

VER'NICOSE  (vernix,  varnish),  appearing  as  if  varnished. 

VERRU'CA  (pi.  VERRU'C^E)  (verruca,  a  wart,  steep  place  or  height),  wart. 

VER'RUCOSE  (verrucosus,  full  of  warts),  covered  with  warts  or  glandular  elevations. 

VERRU'CIFORM  (verruca,  a  wart,  -f-  forma,  form),  warty,  resembling  a  wart  in  ap- 
pearance. 

VERRU'CULOSE  (verrucula,  a  little  eminence,  a  little  wart,  dim.  of  verruca,  a  wart,  + 
ose),  minutely  verrucose. 

VERTEX  (vertex,  vortex  (tic-),  a  whirl,  eddy,  highest  point,  etc.),  the  upper  ex- 
tremity. 

VERTICIL'LATE  (verticilhis,  a  whirl),  whorled. 

VES'CICLE  (vesicula,  a  little  blister,  a  vesicle,  dim.  of  <^vesica,  bladder,  blister),  a 
minute  bladder-like  cell  or  cavity. 

VESIC'ULAR,  VESI'CULATE,  VESIC'ULOSE,  VESIC'ULOUS  (vesicula,  vescicle),  composed 
of  or  like  vescicles. 

VII/LOSE,  VII/LOUS  (villosus,  <^villus,  a  tuft  of  hair),  downy  with  soft  weak  hairs. 

VINA'CEOUS,  a  brownish-pink  or  delicate  brownish-purple  color  like  wine  dregs;  a 
soft,  delicate  wine-colored  pink  or  purple. 

VINA'CEOUS-BUFF  (vinaceo-luteus) .     (Indian-red  -f-  yellow  ocher  +  white.) 

VINA'CEOUS-CINNAMON  (vinaceo-cinnamomeus) .  (Burnt  umber  +  burnt  sienna  -f- 
white.) 

ViNAxCEOUs-PiNK  (vinaceo-caryophyllaceus).    (Madder-carmine  +  light-red  -f-  white.) 

698 


Glossary 

VINA'CEOUS-RU'FOUS  (vinaceo-rufus) .     (Indian-red  +  ligh>red  +  white.) 

VI'NOUS  (vinosus,  <^vinum,  wine),  wine-colored;  vinaceous. 

VIOLET,  VIOLACEOUS,  a  purplish-blue  color,  like  the  petals  of  a  violet.  (Aniline- 
violet  or  mauve.) 

VIRES'CENT  (virescere,  grow  green,  greenish),  green  or  becoming  green. 

VIR'GATE  (virgatus,  <^virga,  a  twig,  rod),  streaked;  having  an  erect,  slender  shape 
like  a  rod. 

VIRIDES'CENT  (viridescens,  ppr.  of  vindescere,  be  green,  Oyt'dis,  green),  slightly 
green;  greenish. 

VISXCID  (viscum,  bird-lime,  anything  sticky),  moist  and  sticky,  glutinous,  clammy, 
adhesive;  covered  with  a  shiny  liquid  which  adheres  to  the  fingers  when  touched. 

VISCOSE,  Viscous  (viscosus,  <^mscum,  bird-lime),  glutinous,  clammy,  adhesive. 

VITEL'LINE  (vitellus,  yolk  of  egg,  -j-  ine),  egg-yellow  color;  luteous. 

VOLUTE/  (valuta,  a  spiral  scroll),  rolled  up  in  any  direction. 

VOL'VA  (volva,  a  wrapper),  wrapper;  same  as  universal  veil;  the  name  is  often  ap- 
plied to  that  portion  of  a  discrete  volva  which  is  left  after  rupturing,  either 
attached  in  fragments  to,  or  forming  a  distinct  membranous  sheath  about,  the 
base  of  the  stem,  the  peridium  in  phalloids  analogous  to  the  volva  in  Amanitse. 

VOL'VIFORM  (volva,  wrapper,  -{-forma,  form),  having  the  form  of  a  volva. 

WART  (verruca,  wart,  excrescence),  a  wart-like  excrescence  found  on  the  pileus  of 
some  mushrooms ;  the  remains  of  the  volva  in  form  of  irregular  or  polygonal 
excrescences,  more  or  less  adherent,  numerous  and  persistent. 

WAVED,  WA'VY.     See  UNDULATE. 

WAX- YELLOW  (ceraceus),  a  deep  but  dull  yellow,  resembling  the  color  of  fresh  bees' 
wax. 

WHORLED,  having  parts  arranged  in  a  circle  around  an  axis;  verticillate. 

WINE-PURPLE  (mnaceo-purpureus),  a  clear  reddish-purple  of  a  slightly  brownish  cast. 

WOOD-BROWN,  a  light  brown  color  like  some  varieties  of  wood.  (Raw  umber + burnt 
sienna + white.) 

YELLOW-OCHEB,  a  bright  yellowish-ochraceous  or  ocher-yellow  color. 

ZO'NATE,  ZONED  (zona,  a  zone  or  girdle),  marked  with  concentric  bands  of  color. 
ZONES  (zona,  a  zone  or  girdle),  circular  bands  of  color. 


SUPPLEMENT 
ONE   THOUSAND   AMERICAN    FUNGI 


701 


PREFACE   TO   SECOND   EDITION 

THE  first  edition  of  "One  Thousand  American  Fungi"  so  fully 
embodied  the  species  known  to  be  edible,  that  the  field  for  fresh  inves- 
tigation has  been  confined  principally  to  newly  discovered  species.  In 
the  eighteen  months  elapsing  since  the  publication  of  the  first  edition, 
Professor  Charles  H.  Peck — the  American  authority  upon  fungi — has 
reported  several.  These,  with  his  descriptions,  are  named  in  the  sup- 
plement. 

The  many  requests  made  of  the  author  for  information  upon  the 
raising  of  mushrooms  show  a  prevalent  interest  in  the  industry.  What 
he  knows  is  stated  herein;  what  he  does  not  know,  and  what  is  not 
known  upon  the  subject,  would  furnish  trie  matter  for  a  volume. 

Interest  in  the  study  of  fungi  is  well  established  and  is  rapidly  in- 
creasing. This  department  of  botany  has  been  made  a  specialty  in 
many  colleges  and  schools.  Its  importance  is  everywhere  recognized. 

The  author  and  publishers  feel  a  just  pride  in  the  success  of  "One 
Thousand  American  Fungi."  The  prompt  sale  of  the  first  edition,  and 
immediate  demand  for  the  second,  warrant  it.  Their  thanks  are  due  to 
the  many  who  have  kindly  interested  themselves  in  obtaining  subscrip- 
tions to  the  author's  edition. 

CHARLES  MC!LVAINE. 


703 


PREFACE  TO  THE  THIRD  EDITION 

In  preparing  the  third  edition  of  this  volume  for  publication,  the 
editor  has  left  almost  intact  the  valuable  work  of  the  late  Dr.  Mcllvaine. 
The  changes  to  be  noted  in  the  revision  are  more  matters  of  re-arrange- 
ment than  alterations  of  the  original  text. 

It  is  gratifying  to  record  the  fact  that  while  a  large  amount  of  addi- 
tional literature  has  been  published  concerning  many  of  the  species  rep- 
sented  in  the  first  and  second  editions,  there  appears  none  that  essentially 
affects  the  value  of  the  observations  there  recorded. 

Of  the  great  number  of  new  species  of  fungi  discovered  since  the  last 
edition,  the  most  interesting,  as  pertaining  to  the  scope  of  this  work,  are 
those  published  by  Professor  Chas.  H.  Peck  in  the  Reports  of  the  New 
York  State  Museum.  From  these,  thirty  or  more  have  been  included  as 
a  supplement  to  this  edition.  These  have  been  selected  as  most  likely  to 
be  found  by  those  using  this  work.  In  re-grouping  Prof.  Peck's  illus- 
trations, to  adapt  them  to  the  cut  form  in  this  book,  care  has  been  taken 
to  represent,  as  fully  as  possible,  effects  difficult  to  secure  where  color 
can  not  be  employed.  The  natural  size  of  the  plants  is  indicated  on 
each  cut,  and  the  spores  are  represented  magnified  400  diameters. 
Prof.  Peck's  wording  is  scrupulously  transcribed  in  all  descriptive  mat- 
ter preceding  the  occurrence  of  his  name  in  italics. 

CHAS.  F.  MILLSPAUGH. 

Field  Museum  of  Natural  History, 

September,  1911. 


45  705 


SUPPLEMENT 


(Plate  CLXXXIII.) 


Amanita  calyptrata  albescens  Pk.  Rep.,  1899:  840.  Sandy  soil, 
Gansevoort,  Saratoga  county,  New  York.  July.  Our  specimens  differ 
from  the  typical  form  of  the  species  (A.  calyptrata  Pk.  see  page  26)  in 
being  wholly  white  or  whitish.  The 
type  (A.  calyptrata)  which  was  sent 
from  Oregon,  has  the  pileus  yellow 
or  yellowish  brown,  and  the  lamellae 
yellowish  white,  both  having  a  slight 
tinge  of  green.  The  peculiar  thick, 
felty,  white  fragment  of  the  volva 
that  adheres  to  and  covers  the  central 
part  of  the  pileus  forms  a  characteris- 
tic feature  of  the  species  and  is  sug- 
gestive of  its  name.  This,  together 
with  the  thick  remains  of  it  at  the  base 
of  the  stem,  and  the  more  strongly 
striate  margin  of  the  pileus,  easily 
distinguishes  the  species  from  A. 
spreta,  to  which  it  is  closely  allied. 
Because  of  its  different  color  I  have 
considered  our  plant  a  variety  of  the 
species  and  named  it  variety  albescens. 

The  Oregon  plant  (A.  calyptrata) 
is  known  to  be  edible,  but  as  only  two  specimens  of  the  variety  were 
found,  no  opportunity  for  testing  its  edible  quality  was  given.     Peck. 

Amanita  Frostiana  pallidipes  Pk.  Rep.,  1899:  855.  The  typical 
form  of  this  species,  which  is  common  in  our  cool  northern  woods,  has 
the  pileus  and  annulus,  and  usually  the  stem  also,  of  a  yellow  color, 
that  of  the  pileus  sometimes  verging  to  orange.  But  in  warmer  and 
more  open  or  bushy  places  forms  occur  in  which  the  whole  plant  is 
whitish,  but  in  other  respects  has  the  characters  of  the  species.  Some- 

707 


Supplement 


(Plate  CLXXXIV.) 


times  the  pileus  is  pale-yellow  and  the  stem  and  annulus  white.  The 
warts  are  soft  and  flocculent,  are  sometimes  numerous  and  persistent, 
and  again  are  few  or  wanting.  The  form  with  yellow  stem  and  annulus 
and  yellow  or  orange  pileus  may  be  considered  the  typical  form  of  the' 
species,  but  forms  having  the  stem  and  annulus  pale  or  white  may  be 
designated  as  variety  pallidipes.  Peck. 

For  illustration  of  the  species,  A.  Frostiana,  from  which  this  variety 
differs  as  above  described,  see  plate  VI,  fig.  5. 

Undoubtedly  POISONOUS.     Mcllvaine. 

Amanita  glabriceps  Pk.  Rep.,  1908:  18.  Pileus  thin,  ovate  or 
oval  becoming  broadly  convex  or  centrally  depressed,  glabrous,  rarely 
adorned  when  young  with  a  few  patches  of  the  ruptured  volva,  viscid 

when  moist,  often  finely  striate  on  the 
margin,  white  or  yellowish  white,  some- 
times slightly  brownish  in  the  center. 
Flesh  white  under  the  separable  cuticle. 
Lamellae  thin,  crowded,  free,  unequal, 
white.  Stem  long,  slender,  stuffed,  glab- 
rous or  floccose-squamulose,  bulbous,  white, 
the  thin,  flabby  annulus  sometimes  rup- 
tured and  partly  adhering  to  the  margin 
of  the  pileus ;  sometimes  disappearing  with 
age.  Bulb  margined  by  the  remains  of  the 
definitely  circumcissile  volva.  Spores  glo- 
bose, 8/u.  in  diameter. 

Pileus  5-iocm.  broad;  stem  7-1 5cm. 
long,  6— 1 2mm.  thick.  Among  fallen  leaves 
in  woods.  Stuben  and  Rensselaer  counties, 
New  York. 

This  species  is  closely  related  to  Aman- 
ita pJialloides  Fr.  from  which  it  is  separat- 
ed  by  its  more  slender  habit,   its    longer 
slender  stem   with    a    webby   pith    and    a 
more  narrow  bulb  margined  by  the  remains  of  the  more  definitely  cir- 
cumcissile volva.    Amanita  phalloides  striatula  Pk.  is  a  small  variety  of 
this  species  rather  than  of  A.  phalloides.     Peck. 
Undoubtedly  POISONOUS. 

708 


Supplement 


(Plate  CLXXXV.) 


Amanita  Morrisii  Pk.  Rep.,  1909:  42.  Pileus  fleshy,  subcampan- 
ulate  becoming  broadly  convex,  viscid  when  moist,  glabrous,  even  on 
the  margin,  with  a  separable  pelli- 
cle, dark  grayish  brown  or  blackish 
brown,  becoming  a  little  paler  with 
age  and  with  the  escape  of  moisture. 
Flesh  white.  Lamellae  thin,  close, 
narrow,  rounded  behind,  slightly  ad- 
nexed,  white.  Stem  equal  or  slightly 
tapering  upward,  slightly  bulbous  at 
the  base,  solid  or  stuffed,  slightly 
floccose,  sometimes  grayish  and 
striate  at  the  top,  usually  white,  an- 
nulus  double,  radiately  striate  above, 
whitish  buff  beneath,  the  slight  volva 
soon  breaking  into  fragments  and 
disappearing  or  occasionally  partly 
adhering  to  the  lower  part  of  the 
stem.  Spores  subglobose  or  broadly 
ellipsoid,  8-10x6— 8/*. 

Pileus     5— locm.     broad;      stem, 
8— I4cm.  long,  i2-2Omm.  thick. 

In    black  vegetable    mold    among  mosses, 
chusetts.      September.      Peck. 

Undoubtedly  POISONOUS. 


V-2  nat  • 


Natick  swamp,   Massa- 


Amanita  multisquamosa  Pk.  Rep.,  1899:  840.  Pileus  convex, 
becoming  nearly  plane,  even  but  slightly  striate  on  the  margin,  adorned 
with  numerous  angular,  erect,  persistent  but  separable  warts,  white  or 
white  with  a  brown  or  brownish  center.  Flesh  white.  Lamellae  close, 
free,  white.  Stem  equal,  glabrous,  stuffed  with  a  webby  pith  or  hollow, 
bulbous  at  the  base,  white ;  annulus  white,  persistent,  the  bulb  more  or 
less  margined  above  by  the  remains  of  the  volva.  Spoi'es  subglobose 
or  broadly  elliptic,  .0003  to  .OOOJ.  of  an  inch  long,  .00024  to  -0003 
broad. 

Pileus  2  to  4  inches  broad;  stem  1.5  to  4  inches  long,  3  to  6  lines 
thick.  Woods  and  groves.  Albany,  Rensselaer  and  Suffolk  counties, 
New  York,  July. 

709 


Supplement 

The  species  has  the  volva  definitely  circumcissile,  and  after  its  rupture 

the  free  margins    sometimes    closely 


(Plate  CLXXXVI.) 


sheathes  the  base  of  the  stem.  In 
some  of  the  specimens  the  central 
part  of  the  pileus  is  areolate  rimose, 
a  wart  occupying  the  center  of  each 
areola.  The  warts  are  more  closely 
placed  in  the  center  than  toward  the 
margin.  From  pale  forms  of  A.  inns- 
caria  this  species  may  be  separated 

(Plate  CLXXXVII.) 


Vsnat 


by  its  more  crowded,  angular,  erect 
warts  and  by  the  absence  of  scales  or 
fragments  of  the  volva  from  the  base 
of  the  stem.  Peck. 

Undoubtedly  POISONOUS. 

Amanitopsis  volvata    elongata 

Pk.  Rep.,  1899:  856.  Pileus  gla- 
brous, slightly  viscid  when  moist, 
striate  on  the  -margin,  white.  Stem 
long,  straight  or  variously  curved, 
mealy  at  the  top,  floccose  squamose 
below,  the  bulb  buried  deeply  in  the 
ground. 

Under  or  near  pine  trees.      Claryville,  New  York. 

710 


August. 


Supplement 


(Plate  CLXXXVIII.) 


This  variety  differs  from  the  type  (see  Amanitopsis  volvata,  page  31) 
in  its  purer  white  glabrous  pileus,  its  long  stem  and  in  having  the  bulb 
deeply  buried  in  the  ground.  The  remains  of  the  ruptured  volva  are 
generally  more  closely  pressed  about  the  base  of  the  stem  than  in  the 
species,  in  which  the  bulb  is  above  or  just  at  the  surface  of  the  ground. 
In  both  forms  the  lamellae  change  color  in  drying,  becoming  much 
darker  than  when  fresh.  The  stem  is  from  four  to  six  inches  long. 
Sometimes  the  pileus  is  adorned  by  one  or  two  small  fragments  of  the 
volva  which  adhere  to  it.  Peck. 

Great  care  should  be  taken  in  establishing  the  true  specific  status  of 
the  specimens  if  inclined  to  test  the  edibility  of  this  variety.  Should 
there  be  the  least  semblance  of  an  annulus  in  any  specimen,  beware! 

Lepiota  clypeolaria  (Bull.)  Fr.  Pk.  Rep.,  1900:  173.  Shield  Lep- 
iota.  ( PI.  CLXXXVIII.  )  Pileus  thin,  soft,  convex  or  subcampanulate, 
becoming  nearly  plane,  obtuse  or  umbonate,  squamose,  whitish  or  yel- 
lowish, the  center  or  umbo  smooth,  yellow- 
ish or  brownish,  the  margin  often  appen- 
diculate  with  fragments  of  the  veil.  Flesh 
white.  Lamellae  thin,  close,  free,  white. 
Stem  slender,  equal  or  slightly  tapering 
upward,  hollow,  fragile,  pallid,  adorned 
with  soft,  loose,  white  or  yellowish  floccose 
scales  or  filaments.  Spores  oblong  or  sub- 
fusiform,  12— 2O/A  long,  6— 8/>«.  broad. 

The  cap  of  the  shield  lepiota  is  at  first 
somewhat  ovate  or  bell-shaped,  but  with 
advancing  age  it  becomes  convex  above 
or  nearly  flat.  It  is  white  or  whitish,  but 
spotted  with  numerous  small  scales  of  a 
)-ellowish  or  brownish-yellow  color.  These 
scales  are  the  result  of  the  breaking  up  of 
the  thin  cuticle  that  covers  the  very  young 

•   *          &     Vsnat. 

plant,  and  they  have  the  same  color  as  it. 
A  small  space  in  the  center  is  brown  or  yellowish  brown,  or  darker  than 
the  rest  of  the  cap,  because  the  cuticle  covering  it  remains  unbroken 
and  retains  its  color.  The  center  in  some  specimens  is  more  prominent 
than  in  others,  giving  what  is  called  an  umbonate  cap.  The  margin  of 

711 


Supplement 


(Plate  CLXXXIX.) 


the  cap  is  sometimes  shaggy,  especially  in  young  plants,  by  the  adher- 
ing fragments  of  the  whitish  veil. 

The  gills  are  thin,  closely  placed  side  by  side  and  rounded  at  the 
end  next  the  stem,  but  they  are  not  attached  to  the  stem.  They  are 
white.  The  stem  is  rather  long  and  slender,  fragile  and  adorned  with 
loose,  soft  fibrils  or  flocculent,  cottony  tufts,  which  give  it  a  somewhat 
shaggy  appearance,  but  it  becomes  smoother  as  the  plant  grows  older. 

The  cap  is  usually  from  1—2.5  inches  broad,  and  the  stem  from  1.5—3 
inches  long  and  1.5—3  lmes  thick.  The  plants  grow  in  woods,  specially  in 
hilly  and  mountainous  regions,  and  are  generally  solitary  or  few  in  a  place, 
but  in  favorable  seasons  they  are  of  frequent  occurrence  and  may  be  found 
from  July  to  October.  Though  small  and  thin,  the  caps  are  well-flavored 
and  make  a  desirable  dish.  L.  metulaespora  B.  and  Br.  scarcely  differs 
from  this  species,  except  in  the  striate  margin  of  its  cap.  Peck. 

Tricholoma  subacutum  Pk.  Rep.,  1888:  112.  Pileus  at  first  ovate 
or  broadly  conical,  then  convex  and  subacutely  umbonate,  dry,  silky 
and  obscurely  virgate  with  minute  innate  fibrils,  whitish  tinged  with 

smoky-brown  or  bluish-gray,  darker 
on  the  umbo.  Flesh  white,  taste  acrid 
or  peppery.  Lamellae  rather  close, 
slightly  adnexed,  white.  Stem  equal, 
stuffed  or  hollow,  silky -fibrillose, 
white.  Spores  broadly  elliptical  or 
subglobose,  .00025  to  .0003  inch  long, 
.0002  to  .00025  broad. 

Pileus  1.5  to  3  inches  broad;  stem 
2  to  4  inches  long,  3-6  lines  thick. 

Woods  and  groves.  North  Elba, 
Essex  county,  New  York.  Septem- 
ber. 

The  species  is  perhaps  too  closely 
related  to  T.  virgatum,  but  it  is  sep- 
arable by  its  prominent  subacute 
umbo,  paler  pileus,  hollow  stem  and 
hot  or  peppery  taste.  The  cuticule 
is  separable  from  the  pileus.  Peck. 

In  his  Report  for  1902,  page  39,  Prof.  Peck  redescribes  the  species 

712 


'/z  nat 


Supplement 


(Plate  CXC.) 


and  includes  it  under  his  rubric  of  "  Edible  Fungi."  He  remarks  that 
the  flesh  has  no  decided  odor  and  that  it  is  sometimes  acrid  and  some- 
times mild. 

Tricholoma  unifactum  Pk.  Rep.,  1905 :  36.  Pileus  fleshy  but  thin, 
convex,  often  irregular,  sometimes  eccentric  from  its  crowded  mode  of 
growth,  whitish.  Flesh  whitish,  taste  mild.  Lamellae  thin,  narrow, 
close,  rounded  behind,  slightly  ad- 
nexed,  sometimes  forked  near  the 
base,  white.  Stem  equal  or  thicker 
at  the  base,  solid,  fibrous,  white, 
united  at  the  base  in  a  large  fleshy 
mass.  Spores  white,  subglobose, 
.00016  to  .0002  of  an  inch  broad. 

Pileus    1—2    inches    broad ;    stem 
1—2  inches  long,  3—5  lines  thick. 

Under  hemlock  trees.      Horicon, 
Warren  county,   New  York.     July. 

The  united  tricholoma  belongs  to 
the  section  Guttata  and  is  closely 
related  to  the  northern  tricholoma 
(Tric/wloma  boreale}  and  to  the 
whitish  tricholoma  (Tricholoma  al- 
belluin}.  From  the  former  it  is 
separated  by  its  different  color,  mode 
of  growth  and  lack  of  odor ;  and 
from  the  latter  by  its  color,  the  ab-  y2nat 
sence  of  spots  on  the  cap  and  by  its 
smaller  subglobose  spores.  The  stem  and  gills  are  white,  the  cap  is; 
nearly  so.  It  has  a  watery  white  appearance  when  moist.  The  plants 
grow  in  clusters,  several  stems  arising  from  a  large  whitish  fleshy  mass, 
by  which  character  it  is  at  once  distinguished  from  all  our  other  species 
of  Tricholoma. 

The  taste  is  mild  and  there  is  no  decided  odor.      The  flesh  is  tender 
and  of  excellent  flavor  when  properly  cooked.     Peck. 

Clitocybe  adirondackensis    Pk.    Rep.,    1900:  174.      Adirondack 
Clitocybe.     Pileus    thin,   convex  or  nearly  plane    and    umbilicate,   or 

713 


Supplement 


(Plate  CXCI.) 


centrally  depressed  and  funnel-form,  glabrous,  moist,  white  or  pale  tan 
color.  (Appearing  like  Clitocybe  infundibuliformis  membranacea  Fr.) 
Flesh  white.  Lamellae  thin,  narrow,  close,  very  decurrent,  white.  Stem 

nearly  equal,  glabrous,  stuffed  or  hollow, 
colored  like  the  pileus.  Spores  subglo- 
bose  or  broadly  elliptic,  4-5^  long,  3-41* 
broad. 

The  Adirondack  clitocybe  is  common 
in  the  northern  forests  of  the  state,  but 
is  not  limited  to  them.  Its  cap  is  thin, 
and  soon  becomes  nearly  flat  with  a  de- 
curved  margin  and  a  central  depression 
or  umbilicus;  or  very  concave  by  the 
elevation  of  the  margin,  and  then  it  re- 
sembles a  wineglass  in  shape.  Its  mar- 
gin is  sometimes  wavy  or  irregular.  In 
color  it  varies  from  white  to  a  very  pale 
red  or  tan  color.  White  specimens  some- 
times have  the  center  slightly  darker 
than  the  rest. 

The  gills  are  very  narrow,  being  scarcely  broader  than  the  thickness 
of  the  flesh  of  the  cap.     They  are  closely  placed,  white  and  decurrent. 
The  stem  is  nearly  cylindric,  smooth  and  stuffed  or  hollow.    It  is  col- 
ored like  the  cap.      Often  there  is  a  white  tomentum  or  cottony  sub- 
stance at  its  base. 

The  cap  varies  in  size  and  is  1-2  inches  broad;  the  stem  1.5-3  inches 
long  and  1-2  lines  thick.      It  may  be  found  from  July  to  October.      Its 
flavor  is  suggestive  of  that  of  the  common  mushroom.     Peck. 
Agaricus  adirondackensis  Pk.  Rep.,  1908:  77 

Clitocybe  maculosa  Pk.  Rep.,  1900:  174.  Spotted  Clitocybe.  Pileus 
fleshy,  convex,  often  centrally  depressed,  glabrous,  centrally  marked 
with  numerous  small  round  spots,  yellowish-white,  the  young  margin 
involute  and  minutely  downy.  Flesh  white,  taste  mild.  Lamellae  nar- 
row, close,  very  decurrent,  whitish  or  slightly  yellowish,  some  of  them 
forked.  Stem  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  glabrous  or  sparingly 
fibrillose,  stuffed,  sometimes  becoming  hollow,  whitish.  Spores  subglo- 
bose  or  orbicular,  4-5^  broad. 

714 


Supplement 


(Plate  CXCII.) 


The  peculiar  mark    by  which  the  spotted  clitocybe  may  be  distin- 
guished consists  in  the  small  round  definite  spots  in  the  central  part  of 
the  cap.      They  have  a  slightly  darker  or  watery  or  yellowish  color  and 
appear  as  if  depressed  below  the  rest  of  the 
surface.    The  cap  is  smooth  and  whitish  or 
yellowish  white  and  is  generally  depressed 
in  the  center  and  decurved  on  the  margin. 
The  margin  is  usually  adorned  with  slight, 
short  radiating  ridges.     The  flesh  is  white 
and  the  taste  mild. 

Agaricus  maculosus  Pk.  Rep.,  1908  :  78. 

The  gills  are  closely  placed  side  by  side, 
narrow  and  prolonged  downward  on  the 
stem.  They  have  nearly  the  same  color  as 
the  cap.  The  stem  is  nearly  cylindric, 
smooth  or  adorned  with  a  few  silky  fibrils, 

(Plate  CXCIII.) 


Vi  nat 


whitish  and  spongy  within  or  some- 
times hollow  when  old. 

The  cap  is  from  1-3  inches  broad; 
the  stem  2—3  inches  long  and  2—4 
lines  thick.  This  mushroom  grows 
among  fallen  leaves  in  woods.  It  ap- 
pears in  August  and  September.  I 
have  found  it  in  the  Adirondack  for- 
ests only.  Its  range  is  probably  north- 
ward, and  its  rarity  detracts  from  its 
importance  as  an  edible  species.  Peck. 


Vz  nat 


Hygrophoms  laurae  Morg.  Jour.  Cincin.  Soc.  Nat.  Hist.,  4:  180. 
(1883).  Pk.  Rep.,  1901  :  967.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex  and  umbonate, 
then  expanded  and  depressed,  more  or  less  irregular,  glutinous,  white, 

715 


Supplement 


(Plate  CXCIV.) 


clouded  with  a  reddish  or  a  brownish  tinge  especially  on  the  disk.  Stem 
solid,  more  or  less  curved  or  crooked,  tapering  downward,  yellowish- 
white;  the  apex  scabrous  with  scaly  points.  Lamellae  unequally  ad- 
nate-decurrent,  distant,  white.  Spores  pellucid,  elliptic,  apiculate, 
.  0083  x.  005  5  p.. 

Growing  in  rich  soil  among  the  leaves  in  hilly  woods.  Pileus  2—4  in. 
broad,  stipe  2-4  in.  long  and  %  an  inch  thick.  This  is  a  much  larger 
plant  than  H.  eburneus,  has  a  wash  of  red  or  brown  upon  the  disk,  and  is 
covered  with  a  thick  gluten.  It  is  more  like  H '.  cossus,  but  has  no  odor. 

Edible.    Peck 

Lactarius  distans  Pk.  Rep.,  1872:  117.  Distant-gilled  Lactarius. 
Pileus  firm,  broadly  convex  or  nearly  plane,  umbilicate  or  slightly  de- 
pressed in  the  center,  with  a  minute  velvety  pruinosity,  yellowish  tawny 

or  brownish  orange.  Lamellae  rather 
broad,  distant,  adnate  or  slightly  de- 
current,  white  or  creamy  yellow,  the 
interspaces  venose,  milk  white,  mild. 
Stem  short,  equal  or  tapering  down- 
ward, solid,  pruinose,  colored  like 
the  pileus.  Spores  subglobose.  g-np- 
broad. 

The  distant-gilled  Lactarius  is  sim- 
ilar to  the  orange  Lactarius  in  color, 
but  in  other  respects  it  is  quite  dis- 
tinct. The  short  stem,  widely  sepa- 
rated gills  and  pruinose  surface  of  the 
cap  are  distinctive  features.  The  cap 
is  broadly  convex  and  often  has  a 
small  central  depression  or  umbilicus. 
In  some  cases  it  becomes  nearly  plane 
or  even  slightly  funnel-shape  by  the 

spreading  or  elevation  of  the  margin.  The  surface,  specially  in  young 
and  in  well-developed  specimens,  has  a  soft  pruinose  or  almost  velvety 
appearance  to  the  naked  eye,  and  when  viewed  through  a  magnifying 
glass  it  is  seen  to  be  covered  with  minute  persistent  granules.  The  sur- 
face is  sometimes  wrinkled  and  frequently  it  cracks  in  such  a  way  as  to 
form  small  angular  or  irregular  areas.  The  color  is  a  peculiar  one,  vary- 

716 


Vanat 


Supplement 


(Plate  CXCV.) 


mg  somewhat  in  shade,  but  with  tawny  hues  prevailing.  It  has  been 
described  as  yellowish  tawny,  and  brownish  orange.  The  flesh  is  white 
or  whitish  and  has  a  mild  taste. 

The  gills  are  wide  apart,  somewhat  arched  in  specimens  having  a  con- 
vex cap  and  slightly  decurrent  in  those  with  fully  expanded  or  centrally 
depressed  caps.  Their  color  is  white  or  creamy  yellow  and  in  old  and 
dried  specimens  they  have  a  white  pruinosity  as  if  frosted  by  the  spores. 
The  milk  is  white  and  mild. 

The  stem  is  short,  rarely  more  than  an  inch  long,  and  is  cylindric  or 
tapering  downward.  It  is  solid  and  colored  and  clothed  like  the  cap. 

The  cap  is  I  to  4  in.  broad;  the  stem  is  usually  about  I  in.  long,  4 
to  8  lines  thick.  It  is  found  in  thin  woods,  bushy  places  and  pastures 
from  July  to  September.  It  is  similar  to  the  orange  Lactarius,  L.  vol- 
emus,  in  its  edible  qualities.  Peck,  Rep.  1878:  678. 

Lactarius  subpurpureus  Pk.  Rep.,  1875:  43.  In  his  report  of 
1900,  page  176,  Prof.  Peck  redescribes  the  species  and  adds  interesting 
notes  concerning  its  forms  and  color. 
Remarking  upon  its  relationship,  habitat 
and  edibility,  he  says:  "This  lactarius 
is  distinguished  from  all  our  other  spe- 
cies by  the  dark  red  milk  that  issues 
from  wounds  of  the  flesh  or  gills.  It 
belongs  to  the  same  group  of  species  as 
L.  deliciosus,  L.  indigo  and  L.  cJieli- 
doninm.  It  is  also  allied  to  the  Euro- 
pean L.  sanguifluus.  The  plants  grow 
in  woods  and  swamps  among  mosses  and 
fallen  leaves,  and  occur  from  July  to 
October.  When  fresh  their  taste  is 
slightly  acrid,  but  when  they  are  cooked 
it  is  scarcely  inferior  to  that  of  L .  delici- 
osus. Peck. 

I  had  not  seen  this  species  when  the 
first  edition  of  this  work  went  to  press, 
consequently  could  not  report  its  edible 

qualities.  The  favorable  testing  by  Professor  Peck 'adds  weight  to  the 
opinion  I  have  frequently  expressed,  that  acridity  of  species  when 

717 


t/2  nat 


Supplement 


raw  is  no  evidence  whatever  that  they  are  harmful, 
disappears  in  cooking.     Mcllvaine. 


Acridity  usually 


(Plate  CXCVI.) 


Eussula  abietina  Pk.  Rep.,  1900:  180.  Fir  Tree  Russula.  Pileus 
thin,  fragile,  convex,  becoming  nearly  plane  or  slightly  depressed  in 
the  center,  viscid  when  moist,  the  viscid  pellicle  separable,  tuberculate 

striate  on  the  margin.  Flesh  white, 
taste  mild.  Lamellae  subdistant,  ven- 
tricose,  narrowed  toward  the  stem, 
rounded  behind  and  nearly  free,  whit- 
ish, becoming  pale  yellow,  the  inter- 
spaces venose.  Stem  equal  or  taper- 
ing toward  the  top,  stuffed  or  hollow, 
white.  Spores  bright  yellowish  och- 
raceous,  subglobose,  rough,  8-io/u. 
broad. 

The  fir  tree  russula  is  closely  related 
to  the  youthful  russula,  R.  pnellaris 
Fr.,  from  which  it  is  separated  by  the 
viscid  cap,  the  gills  rather  widely 
separated  from  each  other  and  nearly 
free,  the  stem  never  yellowish  nor 
becoming  yellow  where  wounded,  and 

the  spores  having  an  ochraceous  hue.  They  are  much  brighter  and 
more  highly  colored  in  the  mass  than  the  mature  gills.  The  cap 
varies  much  in  color,  but  the  center  is  generally  darker  than  the  rest. 
It  may  be  dull  purple  or  greenish  purple  with  a  brownish  or  blackish 
center,  or  sometimes  with  an  olive  green  center,  or  it  may  be  olive  green 
or  smoky  green  with  a  brownish  center.  Olive  green  and  purplish  hues 
of  various  shades  are  variously  combined,  but  sometimes  the  margin  is 
grayish  and  the  center  olive  green.  The  flesh  is  white  and  its  taste 
mild.  The  gills  are  white  when  young,  or  barely  tinged  with  yellow, 
but  they  become  pale  yellow  with  age.  They  are  neither  crowded  nor 
widely  attached  to  the  stem,  and  are  connected  with  each  other  by  cross 
veins,  which  can  be  seen  at  the  bottom  of  the  interspaces.  The  stems 
are  rather  slender,  soft  or  spongy,  sometimes  becoming  hollow  and  oc- 
casionally tapering 'upward.  They  are  very  constantly  and  persistently 
white.  The  cap  is  1-2.5  inches  broad,  the  stem  1-2.5  inches  long, 

718 


Va  nat 


Supplement 


(Plate  CXCVII.) 


3-5  lines  thick.  This  russula  grows  under  or  near  pine,  spruce  or  bal- 
sam fir  trees.  It  occurs  from  July  to  October.  It  is  tender  and  palat- 
able. The  stems  also  are  tender  and  may  be  cooked  with  the  caps. 
Peck. 

RllSSUla  crustosa  Pk.  Rep.,  1885:  40.  Pileus  at  first  convex, 
then  nearly  plane  or  centrally  depressed,  slightly  viscid  when  moist, 
striate  on  the  margin,  brownish-yellow,  greenish  or  subolivaceous,  the 
cuticle  cracking  and  forming  small 
spot-like  areolae  or  pseudo-verrucae. 
Lamellae  nearly  entire,  some  of  them 
forked  at  the  base,  narrowed  behind 
and  nearly  free,  white.  Stem  cylin- 
drical, stuffed  or  hollow,  white. 
Spores  white,  subglobose,  .0003  to 
.00035  in.  broad.  Flesh  white,  taste 
mild. 

Pileus  3  to  5  in.  broad;  stem  I  to 
2.5  in.  long,  6  to  12  lines  thick. 

Rocky  ground  in  thin  woods  and 
in  woods  and  open  ground.  New 
York.  July  and  August. 

In  his  Report  for  1902,  page  45, 
Prof.  Peck  redescribes  the  species 
with  some  slight  changes  and  addi- 
tions due  to  later  accessions  of  ma- 
terial, and  adds: 

The  crusted  russula  is  closely  re- 
lated to  the  greenish  russula  (R.  vir- 

escens},  and  the  cracked  russula  {R.  cutefracta).  From  the  former  it 
differs  in  its  slightly  viscid  cap,  of  which  the  cuticle  cracks  and  forms 
small,  crust-like  patches  or  scales  on  the  margin,  but  usually  remains 
entire  in  the  center.  From  the  latter  it  is  distinct  by  the  absence  of 
any  red  or  purplish  tints  in  the  flesh  and  the  stem.  Even  in  purplish 
specimens  the  flesh  and  stem  are  wholly  white. 

The  cap  is  very  convex  or  almost  hemispheric  when  young,  nearly 
plane  or  centrally  depressed  when  mature.  The  surface  cracks  toward 
the  margin  as  in  R.  cutefracta,  while  the  center  nearly  always  remains 

719 


Supplement 


(Plate  CXCVIII.) 


entire.  These  surface  chinks  form  small  areolae  or  scales,  which  appear 
like  fragments  of  a  crustaceous  cuticle. 

The  color  varies  greatly.  It  may  be  straw-yellow,  pale  ochraceous, 
brownish  ochraceous,  greenish  with  a  yellowish  ochraceous  center  or  a 
dull  brownish  purple.  The  center  is  sometimes  paler,  sometimes  darker 
than  the  margin.  The  gills  are  white,  narrowed  toward  the  stem  and 
nearly  free.  They  are  sometimes  forked,  especially  near  the  stem,  and 
intervening  short  ones  occur  near  the  margin.  They  are  white  and  un- 
changeable. The  stem  is  also  white.  This  mushroom  is  more  common 
with  us  than  the  greenish  russula,  which  it  resembles  in  size  and  flavor. 

Edible.  The  flesh  is  white  and  the  taste  mild  or  sometimes  slightly 
and  tardily  acrid.  The  acridity  if  present  is  destroyed  by  cooking.  Peck. 

Russula  rugulosa  Pk.  Rep.,  1900:  179.  Rugulose  Russula.  Pileus 
rather  thin,  fragile,  convex,  becoming  nearly  plane  or  centrally  depressed, 
viscid  when  moist,  roughened  or  uneven  with  small  tubercles  and  rugae, 

even  on  the  margin  when  young,  becoming 
tuberculate  striate  with  age,  the  viscid  pellicle 
separable  on  the  margin.  Flesh  white,  reddish 
under  the  cuticle,  taste  tardily  acrid .  Lamellae 
rather  close,  adnate  or  slightly  rounded  be- 
hind, white.  Stem  nearly  equal,  spongy 
within,  white.  Spores  white,  rough,  sub- 
globose,  8— IO/A  broad,  shining  in  trans- 
mitted light. 

The  rugulose  russula  is  closely  related  to 
the  emetic  russula,  but  differs  from  it  in  the 
uneven  or  rugulose  surface  of  the  cap,  in  the 
tardily  acrid  taste  and  in  its  closer  adnate 
gills.  Its  cap  is  red,  varying  from  pale-red 
to  dark-red,  viscid  when  moist,  even  on  the 
margin  when  young,  but  somewhat  tuber- 
culate and  striate  when  old.  Its  surface  is 
roughened  by  minute  tubercles  or  pimples, 

which  sometimes  appear  to  run  together  and  form  short  ridges.  These 
are  sometimes  absent  from  the  center  of  the  cap.  The  viscid  cuticle 
easily  peels  from  the  margin  of  the  cap,  but  not  from  the  center.  The 
flesh  is  white,  except  just  under  the  cuticle,  where  it  is  reddish.  It  is 

720 


'/2  nat 


Supplement 


(Plate  CXCIX.) 


soft  and  fragile,  and  its  taste  is  slowly  and  much  less  sharply  acrid  than 
in  the  emetic  russula.  Its  gills  are  closely  placed,  attached  to  the  stem 
and  persistently  white.  The  stem  is  brittle,  soft  and  spongy  within, 
smooth  and  white.  The  cap  is  2—4  inches  broad,  the  stem  2—3  inches 
long,  4-8  lines  thick. 

It  grows  in  woods  among  mosses  and  fallen  leaves  or  on  the  bare 
ground,  and  appears  in  August  and  September.  It  is  an  inhabitant  of 
the  Adirondack  forests.  Its  slightly  acrid  flavor  is  destroyed  in  cook- 
ing, and  k  affords  a  harmless,  tender  and  agreeable  food.  Peck. 

llussula  variata  Banning,  in  Pk.  Rep.,  1905  :  41.  PileilS  firm,  con- 
vex becoming  centrally  depressed  or  somewhat  funnel  form,  viscid  even 
on  the  thin  margin,  reddish  purple  or  brownish  purple  often  variegated 
with  green,  pea-green  sometimes 
varied  with  purple.  Flesh  white, 
taste  acrid  or  tardily  acrid.  Lam 
ellae  thin,  narrow,  close,  often 
forked,  tapering  toward  each  end, 
adnate  or  slightly  decurrent,  white. 
Stem  equal  or  nearly  so,  solid, 
sometimes  cavernous,  white. 
Spores  white,  subglobose,  .0003— 
.0004  of  an  inch  long,  .0003 
broad. 

Cap  2-4  inches   broad ;     stem 
i .  5—3  inches  long,  5—8  lines  thick. 

In  woods.      July  and  August. 

The  variable  russula  is  appro- 
priately named,  for  its  caps  are 
very  variable  in  color.  They  are 
dark  purple  or  reddish  purple 
variously  intermingled  or  variegated  with  green,  or  wholly  pale  green. 
The  viscid  pellicle  is  closely  attached  to  the  cap  in  the  center,  but  it  is 
separable  on  the  margin.  In  drying  it  sometimes  forms  obscure  spots. 
Notwithstanding  the  variations  in  the  color  of  the  caps,  the  species  is 
easily  recognized,  for  the  gills  are  very  constant  in  their  characters. 
Their  narrowness,  closeness  and  numerous  bifurcations  are  peculiar  and 
very  constant  features.  They  are  sometimes  slightly  decurrent,  especi- 

721 


1/2  nat 


Supplement 


(Plate  CC.) 


ally  in  mature  specimens,  whose  upcurved  margin  gives  the  cap  a  more 
or  less  funnel  shape.  The  stem  is  white  and  solid,  or  sometimes  with 
central  cavities  arranged  one  above  another.  It  belongs  to  the  section 
Furcatae,  as  shown  by  the  even  margin  of  the  cap  and  the  gills  tapering 
toward  each  end. 

The  acrid  taste  of  the  fresh  cap  is  destroyed  in  cooking,  and  the 
flavor  is  then  very  good.  Peck. 

Cantharellus  cinnabarinus  Schw.,  Pk.  Rep.,  1898:  679.  Cin- 
nabar Chantarelle.  (Plate  CC.)  Pileus  firm,  convex  or  slightly  de- 
pressed in  the  center,  often  irregular  with  a  wavy  or  lobed  margin, 

glabrous,  cinnabar  red.  Flesh  white. 
LamellSB  narrow,  distant,  branched, 
decurrent,  red.  Steill  equal  or  ta- 
pering downward,  glabrous,  solid  or 
stuffed,  red.  Spores  elliptic,  S-IO/A 
long,  4-5/u.  broad. 

The  cinnabar  Chantarelle  is  readily 
recognized  by  its  color.  It  is  exter- 
nally red  in  all  its  parts,  the  interior 
only  being  white.  It  is  a  small  spe- 
cies, but  often  quite  irregular  in 
shape.  Small  specimens  are  more 
likely  to  be  regular  than  large  ones. 
Sometimes  the  cap  is  more  fully 
developed  on  one  side  than  on  the 
other.  This  makes  the  stem  eccen- 
tric or  in  some  cases  almost  lateral. 
The  color  is  quite  constant,  but  in 
some  instances  it  is  paler  and  ap- 
proaches a  pinkish  hue.  It  is  apt 
to  fade  or  even  disappear  in  dried 
specimens.  The  gills  are  blunt  on 

the  edge  as  in  other  species  of  this  genus.  They  are  forked  or  branched, 
narrow  and  decurrent. 

The  stem  is  small,  smooth  and  usually  rather  short.  It  is  generally 
solid,  but  in  the  original  description  it  is  characterized  as  stuffed.  The 
cap  is  8  to  1 8  lines  broad,  the  stem  6  to  12  lines  long  and  I  to  3  broad. 

722 


nat 


Supplement 


(Plate  CCI.) 


It  grows  gregariously  in  thin  woods  and  open  places,  and  may  be  found 
from  July  to  September.  It  sometimes  occurs  in  great  abundance, 
which  adds  to  its  importance  as  an  edible  species.  The  fresh  plant  has 
a  tardily  and  slightly  acrid  flavor,  but  this  disappears  in  cooking.  In 
Epicrisis,  Fries  referred  this  species  to  the  genus  Hygrophorus,  and  in 
Sylloge  also  it  is  placed  in  that  genus,  but  it  is  a  true  Cantharellus  and 
belongs  in  the  genus  in  which  Schweinitz  placed  it.  Peck, 

CantharellllS  dicllOtomilS  Pk.  Rep.,  1902:46.  (Original  descrip- 
tion Rep.  23:  123.  1872.)  PileilS  fleshy,  soft  and  flexible,  subconic 
when  young,  with  the  margin  involute  and  downy  or  flocculent,  convex, 
nearly  plane  or  centrally  depressed  when  ma- 
ture, even  or  with  a  small  pointed  umbo,  dry, 
glabrous,  variable  in  color.  Flesh  white,  taste 
Lamellae  narrow,  close,  dichotomous, 


mild. 

decurrent,  white  or  yellowish.  Stem  equal  or 
tapering  upward,  solid,  glabrous  or  slightly 
fibrillose.  Spores  narrowly  elliptic,  .0003— 
.0004  of  an  inch  long,  .00016  broad. 

Pileus  6-18  lines  broad;  stem  1—3  inches 
long,  2—4  lines  thick. 

This  dichotomous  chantarelle  is  a  small  but 
common  species  in  our  hilly  and  mountainous 
districts.  It  grows  in  woods  among  mosses  or 
in  pastures  and  bushy  places  among  grasses 
and  fallen  leaves.  It  is  gregarious  and  ap- 
pears from  July  to  September. 

The  cap  is  generally  broadly  convex  with 
decurved  margin,  but  sometimes  it  becomes  centrally  depressed  by  the 
elevation  of  the  margin.  The  umbo  is  small  and  usually  acute,  or 
papillalike,  but  it  is  often  entirely  absent.  The  margin  is  involute  and 
minutely  flocculent  or  downy  when  young,  but  it  soon  becomes  naked. 
The  surface  is  smooth  or  obscurely  silky  and  occasionally  becomes  min- 
utely rimose  areolate.  The  color  is  very  variable  and  may  be  grayish 
white,  grayish  brown,  yellowish  brown,  blackish  brown  or  bluish  gray. 
The  gills  are  narrow,  thin,  close,  decurrent  and  1-3  times  forked.  They 
are  white  or  whitish  sometimes  tinged  with  yellow.  In  moist  weather 
wounds  on  gills  and  stem  sometimes  become  reddish.  The  stem  is  equal 

723 


Supplement 


(Plate  CCII.) 


in  diameter  or  slightly  tapering  upward.  It  is  glabrous  or  slightly 
fibrillose,  solid,  whitish,  or  pallid,  or  colored  like  the  pileus,  and  when 
growing  among  mosses  is  clothed  below  with  a  soft,  dense,  white  to- 
mentum,  which  binds  it  so  closely  to  the  mosses  that  it  is  difficult  to  take 
a  specimen  without  breaking  the  stem  unless  the  mosses  are  taken  with  it. 

It  is  related  so  closely  to  CantJiarcllus  umbonatns  that  it  has  sometimes 
been  regarded  as  a  variety  of  it  or  has  even  been  confused  with  it,  but 
the  gills  of  that  species  are  described  as  straight,  and  in  our  plant  they 
are  constantly  repeatedly  forked  as  in  C.  aurantiacus  and  C ' .  albidus. 
The  umbo  in  our  plant  is  small  and  pointed  and  often  wholly  wanting, 
but  in  C.  umbonatns  it  is  represented  as  broad  and  blunt.  Because  of 
these  discrepancies  it  seems  best  to  keep  our  plant  distinct. 

As  an  edible  mushroom  it  is  not  as  tender  as  some  nor  as  highly 
flavored,  but  it  is  satisfactory  and  enjoyable.  Peck. 

Entoloma  graveolens  Pk.  Rep.,  1899:  844.  Pileus  thick,  firm  but 
brittle,  convex,  often  irregular,  glabrous,  slightly  flocculent  on  the 

margin,  whitish,  sometimes  with 
a  violaceous  tint.  Flesh  white, 
taste  unpleasant,  odor  strong, 
disagreeable,  earthy.  Lamellae 
narrow,  close,  adnexed,  grayish 
white,  becoming  pale  salmon 
color.  Stem  short,  stout,  solid, 
thickened  or  bulbous  at  the  base, 
downy  above,  white,  the  bulb 
usually  clothed  with  a  soft,  white 
tomentum.  Spores  pale  salmon 
color,  elliptic,  .00024  to  .0003 
of  an  inch  long,  .00016  broad, 
commonly  uninucleate. 

Pileus  2  to  4  inches  broad ; 
stem  1.5  to  4  inches  long,  8  to 
12  lines  thick.  Black  muck  soil 
in  low  woods.  Meadowdale, 


New  York,  October. 

In  size  and  shape  this  mush- 
room resembles  TricJioloma  personatum,  and  when  it  is  tinged  with  a 

724 


Supplement 


violaceous  hue  the  resemblance  is  increased.  Its  strong  unpleasant  odor 
is  very  persistent  and  remains  in  the  dried  specimens,  and  its  disagree- 
able flavor  is  not  destroyed  by  cooking.  It  grows  in  dense  clusters  and 
in  lines  or  arcs  of  circles.  The  color  of  its  spores  and  the  strong  dis- 
agreeable odor  easily  distinguish  the  species  from  the  masked  tricho- 
loma,  with  which  it  might  otherwise  be  confused.  Peck. 

Entoloma  Peckianum  Burt,  in  Pk.  Rep.,  1900:  146.  Pileus  thin, 
conical,  becoming  convex  or  subcampanulate,  moist  or  subhygrophan- 
ous,  dark  brown  or  blackish  brown  and  shining  when  moist,  paler  with 


(Plate  CCIII.) 


the  escape  of  moisture,  umbonate,  obscurely  rough- 
ened by  the  matted  ends  of  minute  adnate  fibrils. 
Lamellae  close,  ascending,  broad,  abruptly  rounded 
behind,  adnexed,  whitish,  becoming  pink  or  salmon 
color.  Stem  fleshy,  slender,  equal,  hollow,  fibril- 
lose  striate,  pale  brown,  often  whitish  at  the  base, 
white  within.  Spores  angular,  uninucleate,  .0004 
to  .0005  of  an  inch  long,  .0003  to  .0004  broad. 

Pileus  8  to  1 5  lines  broad ;  stem  2  to  4  inches 
long,  i  to  2  lines  thick.  Among  sphagnum  in 
marshes.  Floodwood,  New  York.  August. 

This  species  was  associated  with  E.  Variabile. 
It  has  the  general  appearance  of  Nolanea  infula 
Fr.  from  which  it  differs  in  its  fleshy  stem  and 
broad  lamellae.  In  the  dried  specimens  these  as- 
sume a  bright  yellowish  salmon  color  and  the  pileus  ,/2nat 
becomes  black. 

The  fresh  plant  has  no  decided  taste  or  ordor. 
Peck. 

Plants  of  this  genus  often  prove  poisonous,  and  should  not  be  at- 
tempted as  edible  except  by  those  who  are  able  to  carefully  test  them. 

Oortinarius  COrmgatus  Pk.  Rep.,  1898:  674.  Corrugated  Cortin- 
arius.  (Plate  CCIV.)  Pileus  fleshy,  broadly  campanulate  or  very 
convex,  viscid  when  moist,  coarsely  corrugated,  bright  yellow,  reddish 
yellow,  tawny  or  ochraceous.  Flesh  white.  Lamellae  close,  pallid 
when  young,  becoming  tawny  with  age.  Stem  rather  long,  equal,  hol- 
low, bulbous,  pallid  or  yellowish,  the  bulb  viscid  and  usually  colored 

725 


Supplement 


(Plate  CCIV.) 


like  the  pileus.      Spores  broadly  elliptical,  rough,  ii-i6/u,  long,  8-io/x 
broad. 

The  corrugated  Cortinarious  is  a  well-marked  and  easily-recognized 

species,  quite  distinct  from  its  allies. 
Although  the  color  of  the  pileus  is  vari- 
able, its  viscid,  corrugated  surface  and 
the  viscid  bulb  of  the  stem  afford  dis- 
tinctive and  easily-recognized  charact- 
ers. Sometimes  the  corrugations  or 
wrinkles  anastomose  with  each  other  in 
such  a  way  as  to  give  a  reticulated  ap- 
pearance. The  color  varies  from  yellow 
to  reddish  tawny  or  reddish  ochraceous. 
The  margin  in  young  plants  is  incurved. 
There  is  a  variety  in  which  the  cap  is 
adorned  with  darker  colored  spots  or 
scales.  This  bears  the  name,  variety 
subsquamosus.  In  all  other  respects  it 
is  like  the  species. 

The  gills  are  closely  placed  side  by 
side.  They  are  at  first  of  a  pale  hue, 
but  assume  a  darker  and  more  definite 
tawny  color  with  age.  They  are  usually 
minutely  uneven  or  eroded  on  the  edge 
and  transversely  striate  on  the  sides.  They  are  slightly  narrowed  toward 
the  stem. 

The  stem  is  generally  a  little  longer  than  the  width  of  the  cap.  It  is 
commonly  smooth,  but  sometimes  sprinkled  near  the  top  with  minute 
yellowish  particles  and  adorned  below  with  a  few  fibrils.  It  is  hollow 
and  has  a  distinct  viscid  bulbous  base,  the  viscidity  of  which  is  a  pecu- 
liar feature.  This  bulb  in  the  very  young  plant  is  even  broader  than 
the  young  cap,  that  at  this  stage  of  development  appears  to  rest  upon 
it.  The  color  of  the  bulb  is  usually  like  that  of  the  cap,  but  the  stem 
is  commonly  paler  than  either. 

The  cap  is  2  to  4  inches  broad ;  the  stem  3  to  5  inches  long,  3  to  8  lines 
thick.  The  plants  are  gregarious  in  woods  and  bushy  places,  and  may 
be  found  from  June  to  September.  It  sometimes  grows  in  considerable 
abundance,  and  as  an  edible  species  it  is  not  to  be  despised.  Peck. 

726 


V-i  nat 


Supplement 


(Plate  CCV.) 


Cortinarius  ferrugineo-griseus  Pk.  Rep.,  1909:  46.  Pileus  con- 
vex or  nearly  plane,  sometimes  with  the  thin  margin  upcurved  and  then 
appearing  centrally  depressed,  hygrophanous,  brownish  ferruginous 
when  moist,  gray  or  whitish  gray 
when  the  moisture  has  escaped. 
Flesh  whitish.  Lamellae  4-6  lines 
broad,  moderately  close,  adnexed, 
appearing  free  in  the  dried  plant, 
pale  cinnamon  or  clay  color  when 
young,  brownish  cinnamon  when 
mature.  Stem  equal,  abruptlybulb- 
ous  at  the  base,  solid  or  stuffed, 
silky  fibrillose,  sometimes  colored 
like  but  paler  than  the  pileus,  some- 
times shining,  variable  in  color, 
whitish  below  and  violet  tinted 
above  or  entirely  violaceous,  viola- 
ceous within.  Spores  ellipsoid 
and  commonly  uninucleate,  10-12 
x  7-8/t. 

Pileus  3.5-iocm.  broad.     Stem 
3. 5-8. 5cm.  long,  6-2omm.  thick. 

Under    pine    trees   near   Natick 
swamp,  Massachusetts. 

The  growing  plant  is  often  covered  with  pine  needles.  It  belongs  to 
subgenus  Hydrocybe  and  is  closely  allied  to  Cortinarius  saturninus  Fr., 
from  which  it  may  be  separated  by  its  pileus  fading  to  grayish  white, 
and  by  its  solid  stem  often  abruptly  bulbous.  It  also  differs  in  its  habit 
and  in  its  larger  spores.  Peck. 

As  to  the  edibility  of  this  species,  the  remarks  under  C.  submargin- 
alis  will  doubtless  apply  to  this  as  well. 

Cortinarius  submarginalis  Pk.  Rep.,  1901:  950.  Pileus  fleshy, 
firm,  convex,  becoming  nearly  plane  or  concave  by  the  elevation  of  the 
margin,  viscid  when  moist,  yellowish  brown,  generally  a  little  paler  on 
the  rather  definite  and  commonly  fibrillose  margin.  Flesh  whitish. 
Lamellae  thin,  close,  adnate,  creamy  yellow  when  young,  soon  cinna- 
mon. Stem  rather  long,  equal  or  slightly  thickened  at  the  base,  solid, 

727 


'/snat 


Supplement 


(Plate  CCVI.) 


VSnat 


silky  fibrillose,    slightly  viscid,  whitish  or  pallid.      Spores  subelliptic, 
.0004  to  .0005  of  an  inch  long,  .0002  to  .00024  broad. 

Pileus  2   to  4  inches  broad.      Stem  3  to  6  inches  long,  4  to  6  lines 

thick.       Low    moist    places    in    woods. 
Bolton,  New  York.      August. 

The  margin  of  the  pileus  is  generally 
'paler  than  the  rest  and  separated  from  it 
by  a  definite  line.  It  is  from  3  to  6  lines 
broad  and  is  sometimes  curved  upward 
and  conspicuously  fibrillose.  The  dif- 
ference between  the  margin  and  the  rest 
of  the  pileus  is  not  clearly  shown  in  the 
dried  specimens.  The  species  belongs 
to  the  section  Myxacium.  Peck. 

As  to  edible  qualities  we  have  no 
available  report  concerning  this  species. 
None  in  this  genus  has  been  found  to  be 
harmful,  even  though  several  are  bitter  and  many  unpleasant.  The  flesh 
is  apt  to  be  dry  and  of  a  strong  woody  flavor,  and  cooking  does  not 
dissipate  either  of  these  characteristics. 

Agaricus  abruptibulbus  Pk.  Rep.,  1908:  60.  (A.  silvicola  Vitt., 
A.  arvensis  var.  abruptus  Pk).  (Plate  CCVII.)  Agaricus  abruptns 
Pk.  is  described  on  page  343  as  A.  silvicola  Vitt.  It  is  very  common 
in  the  woods  of  West  Virginia,  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania.  In  the 
summer  of  1901  I  found  it  in  Rockingham  county,  North  Carolina. 
The  probabilities  are  that  its  spread  is  extensive. 

Being  the  wood  cousin  of  the  field  mushroom  (A.  campester)  it  de- 
serves more  than  ordinary  attention.  It  is  found  during  months  which 
do  not  favor  the  growth  of  the  mushroom.  It  is  equally  good,  though 
not  so  fleshy.  It  gives  the  true  mushroom  flavor  to  less  flavored  edible 
species  when  cooked  with  them. 

When  seen  at  a  distance,  growing  in  the  woods,  it  has  the  appearance 
of  an  Amanita,  but  the  color  of  the  gills,  which  are  never  white  after  the 
cap  opens  and  become  as  the  spores  ripen  a  blackish  brown,  distin- 
guishes it  at  once.  Neither  has  it  a  volva. 

The  excellent  photograph  of  the  species,  taken  by  the  late  Dr.  J.  R. 
Weist,  Richmond,  Ind.,  presents  a  life-like  picture  of  it.  Mcllvaine. 

728 


t»LATE   CCVII. 


o 


n 

c 


DO 
70 
C 


DO 
C 

r 

DO 
C 


Supplement 


Ajraricus  hsemorrlioidarius  Schulz,  Pk.  Rep.,  1900:  183.  Bleed- 
ing Mushroom.  Pileus  fleshy,  ovate  or  hemispheric,  becoming  broadly 
convex  or  nearly  plane,  fibrillose  or  squamose,  brown  with  darker  scales. 


(Plate  CCVIII.) 


Flesh  white  or  whitish,  turning  red 
where  wounded  ;  taste  and  odor  agree- 
able, Lamellae  rather  broad,  close, 
free,  pink,  becoming  brown.  Stem 
equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward, 
sometimes  bulbous,  hollow,  fibrillose, 
slightly  squamulose  toward  the  base, 
white,  becoming  darker  with  age. 
Spores  brown,  elliptic. 

The  bleeding  mushroom  is  easily 
recognized,  when  fresh,  by  the  red 
color  assumed  by  wounds  of  the  flesh 
either  of  the  cap  or  stem.  This  char- 
acter is  also  found  in  the  seashore 
mushroom,  A.  maritimus ,  a  species 
that  has  a  solid  stem  and  has  not  yet 
been  found  growing  far  from  the  sea. 
The  cap  is  generally  some  shade  of 
brown,  but  sometimes  when  young  it 
is  white.  It  is  adorned  with  darker 
fibrils  or  scales,  though  these  sometimes  become  obscure  or  disappear 
with  age.  When  young  it  is  hemispheric  or  very  convex,  but  it  soon 
becomes  broadly  convex  or  nearly  flat,  with  the  center  either  slightly 
depressed  or  somewhat  prominent.  The  flesh  is  generally  whitish  or 
grayish  white  when  first  exposed  to  the  air.  It  assumes  the  red  color 
rather  slowly  and  after  a  time  loses  it  again. 

The  gills  are  pink  or  rarely  whitish  when  young,  but  become  brown 
or  blackish  brown  with  age.  The  stem  is  long  or  short,  cylindric  or 
tapering  upward,  sometimes  slightly  thickened  or  bulbous  at  the  base, 
sometimes  not.  It  is  hollow,  but  the  cavity  small,  at  first  fibrillose  and 
more  or  less  adorned  with  floccose  scales  toward  the  base,  but  these 
generally  disappear  with  age,  and  the  primary  white  color  of  the  stem 
is  'apt  to  become  darker  with  age.  The  collar  is  membranaceous  and 
at  first  conceals  the  gills.  It  is  persistent,  silky  and  white  or  whitish, 
sometimes  tinged  with  brown. 

729 


Vsnat 


Supplement 

The  cap  is  2—4  inches  broad ;  the  stem  2—4  inches  long,  3—5  lines 
thick.  It  grows  in  woods  or  bushy  places  and  seems  to  prefer  damp 
soil  rich  in  vegetable  mold.  It  may  be  found  from  August  to  October. 
It  sometimes  grows  in  clusters.  It  gives  to  milk  in  which  it  is  stewed  a 
brownish  color.  Its  flavor  is  similar  to  that  of  the  common  mushroom. 
A  variety  in  which  the  stem  is  commonly  shorter  and  the  pileus  of  a 
darker  smoky  brown  color  is  sometimes  abundant  in  low  damp  ground 
on  Long  Island.  It  may  be  called  variety  fumosus.  Peck. 

Agaricus  Morgan!  Pk.  Bot.  Gaz.,  4:  137.  The  majority  of  my- 
cophagists  are  immune  to  the  poison  of  this  species.  (See  page  738.) 
Yet  many  cases  of  severe,  but  not  fatal  poisoning  by  ;t  came  within  the 
writer's  knowledge  during  the  season  of  1900-1901. 

A  valuable  report  is  contained  in  a  letter  from  George  B.  Clementson, 
attorney,  Lancaster,  Wis.  : 

"  *  *  Agaricus  Morgani  has  grown  in  this  locality  this  season  in 

unusual  abundance.  While  I  was  absent  last  week,  my  father  picked  a 
number,  mistaking  them  for  L.  procera,  and  my  mother,  in  preparing 
them  for  the  table,  ate  a  small  piece  of  the  cap  of  one — a  piece,  she 
assures  me,  no  larger  than  a  hickory  nut.  About  two  hours  afterward 
and  shortly  after  dinner  (at  which  the  mushrooms  were  not  served,  and 
at  which  nothing  indigestible  was  eaten)  she  experienced  a  peculiar 
numbness  and  nausea,  with  constriction  of  the  throat.  Vomiting  set  in 
within  half  an  hour  and  was  excessive,  lasting  several  hours  and  giving 
no  relief.  She  was  very  greatly  weakened  and  thought  herself  dying, 
being  so  reduced  at  one  time  that  she  was  unable  to  see.  Purging  set 
in  not  long  after  the  vomiting.  The  constriction  of  the  throat  did  not 
disappear  until  after  the  vomiting  stopped. 

"Whisky  and  nitroglycerine  (by  the  stomach)  were  given  to  keep  up 
the  heart's  action. 

"It  seems  probable  that  the  poison  itself  did  not  directly  affect  the 
heart,  but  that  the  alarming  weakness  was  due  to  the  vomiting  and 
purging.  That  is  my  mother's  own  opinion.  After  being  in  bed  for  a 
day  she  was  able  to  get  around,  but  suffered  considerable  pain  in  the 
abdomen  for  forty-eight  hours. 

"  I  presume  that  owing  to  the  fact  that  my  mother  is  not  very  strong 
and  has  a  weak  stomach,  she  was  more  violently  affected  than  many 
might  be.  But  a  poison  that  in  any  person  can  produce  such  symp- 

730 


Supplement 

toms,  when  taken  in  so  small  a  quantity,  ought  to  be  labeled  decidedly 
dangerous. 

"There  can  be  no  question  that  the  specimens  were  A.  Morgani, 
as  I  examined  some  that  were  left  of  those  picked,  and  also  gathered 
others  from  the  same  patch  where  these  were  obtained. 

"As  everything  relating  to  mushroom  poisoning  should  be  of  interest 
to  the  mycologist  and  mycophagist,  I  take  the  liberty  of  reporting  this 
case." 

The  Agaricus  Morgani  appears  to  be  spreading.  In  1901  I  found 
large  specimens  of  it  outside  a  stable  in  Lebanon,  Pa.  Its  appearance 
and  luxuriance  are  so  much  in  its  favor,  that  the  toadstool  lover  will  be 
tempted  to  try  it.  Experiments  in  eating  it  should  be  conducted  with 
the  greatest  caution.  Mcllvaine.  (See  page  738.) 

For  description  of  the  species,  and  illustration,  see  under  Lepiota 
Morgani,  pages  37-39  and  plate  Vila  and  XIV. 

Agaricus  naucinoides  Pk.  Rep.,  1871:  72.  This  valuable  food 
species  is  spreading  and  rapidly  increasing  in  many  of  the  states.  Prof. 
Charles  H.  Peck  (Rep.,  1900:  162)  says  of  it:  "It  has  shown  con- 
siderable variability  in  some  of  its  characters.  Usually  its  pileus  is  very 
white  and  smooth,  clean  and  attractive,  but  specimens  have  been  found 
this  year  having  the  pileus  dingy  or  smoky  brown,  others  have  been 
seen  in  which  the  cuticle  of  the  pileus  was  cracked  in  such  a  way  as  to 
form  minute  squamules,  and  in  one  or  two  instances  plants  were  ob- 
served having  the  surface  of  the  pileus  adorned  with  minute  granules,  a 
character  attributed  to  L.  naucina  Fr.  In  such  cases  the  importance  of 
recognizing  the  spore  characters  is  shown.  By  disregarding  this  char- 
acter our  plant  has  sometimes  been  referred  to  L.  naucina  and  some- 
times to  Agarictis  cretaceus  Fr.,  both  of  which  it  closely  resembles,  and 
with  which  it  appears  to  be  confused  by  European  mycologists,  some 
referring  it  to  one  species  and  some  to  the  other." 

For  description  and  illustrations  see  Lepiota  naucinioides  Pk.,  pages 
45  and  46,  and  plates  XII  and  XV. 

Agaricus  patuloides  Pk.  Rep.,  1908:  79.  Clitocybe  patuloides  Pk. 
Rep.,  1900:  163  Pileus  fleshy,  firm,  rather  thick,  convex,  becoming 
nearly  plane  or  somewhat  centrally  depressed,  glabrous,  even  and  white 
when  young,  with  the  margin  incurved,  becoming  pale  ochraceous  with 


(Plate  CCIX.) 


age  and  often  squamose  or  rimosely  areolate.  Flesh  white,  taste  mild, 
odor  like  that  of  mushrooms.  Lamellae  thin,  close,  slightly  or  strongly 
decurrent,  forked  or  anastomosing  at  the  base,  white.  Stem  usually 

short,  equal  or  slightly  tapering 
upward,  solid,  white.  Spores 
broadly  elliptic,  6-8 p.  long,  5ft 
broad. 

Pileus  1-4  inches  broad  ;  stem 
1-3  inches  long,  4-12  lines  thick. 
Gregarious  or  cespitose.  Close- 
ly allied  to  Trickoloma  patnlum 
Fr.  Woods,  especially  of  pine. 
Brewerton  and  Westport,  New 
York. 

When  growing  in  tufts  the  stem 
is  often  eccentric  and  the  pileus 
irregular.  The  base  of  the  stem 
is  often  white  tomentose.  Its 
agreeable  odor  and  mild  taste  led 
to  a  trial  of  its  edible  qualities, 
but  it  developed  a  bitter  taste  in 
cooking.  Peck. 


3/s  nat 


Stropharia  bilamellata  Pk.  Bull. 
Torr.  Club,  22 :  204.  Pileus  fleshy, 
convex,  even,  whitish  or  yellowish. 
Flesh  pure  white.  Lamellae  close,  ad- 
nate,  purplish  brown  when  mature.  Stem 
short,  solid,  white,  with  a  well  developed 
pure  white  annulus  which  is  striately 
lamellate  on  the  upper  surface.  Spores 
elliptical,  purplish  brown,  .0004  of  an 
inch  long,  .0002  to  .00024  broad. 

Pileus  i  to  2  inches  broad ;  stem  about 
i  inch  long,  3  to  4  lines  thick. 

Streets  of  Pasadena,  California.  Mc- 
Clatchie. 

This  species  is  remarkable  for  the 

732 


(Plate  CCX.) 


Wsnat 


Supplement 

lamellated  upper  surface  of  the  rather  thick  membranous  annulus. 
These  lamellae  are  uneven  on  the  edge,  and  in  some  cases  they  appear 
to  extend  upward  on  the  stem  till  they  meet  the  true  lamellae. 

From  further  gatherings  made  in  Washington,  D.  C.,  and  Newark, 
Wayne  county,  New  York,  Prof.  Peck  draws  another  description  (Rep., 
1907:  139)  as  follows: 

Pileus  fleshy,  convex,  becoming  nearly  plane  in  larger  plants,  even, 
obtuse,  glabrous,  whitish  or  yellowish.  Flesh  white.  Lamellae  thin, 
close,  adnate,  purplish  brown  in  the  mature  plant.  Stem  commonly 
short,  solid,  sometimes  hollow  in  large  plants,  white,  annulate,  the 
annulus  thick,  white,  with  la'mellae  on  the  upper  surface.  Spores 
elliptic,  .0004  to  .0005  of  an  inch  long,  .0002  to  .0003  broad. 

Prof.  Peck  further  remarks  upon  this  characteristic  species  as  follows : 
"The  species  is  well  marked  by  the  peculiar  character  of  its  collar.  On 
the  upper  surface  are  miniture  gills  which  radiate  from  the  stem  to  the 
margin  of  the  collar.  These  are  narrow,  white  and  uneven  or  dentate 
on  the  margin.  They  are  sometimes  stained  by  the  spores,  but  these 
have  probably  fallen  from  the  true  gills  above.  In  some  instances  the 
inner  extremity  of  the  false  gills  extends  upward  on  the  stem  and  ap- 
pears to  connect  with  the  gills  above.  This  peculiar  character  of  the 
collar  seems  to  be  shown  in  Stropliaria  coronilla  (Bull.)  Fr.  and  forcibly 
suggests  the  thought  that  our  plant  is  specifically  the  same  as  the 
European." 

Prof.  Peck,  loc.  cit.  draws  a  table  of  comparative  characters  between 
the  American  and  the  European  species,  and  concludes  that  while  there 
is  a  strong  similarity  between  them,  it  seems  to  him  best  to  retain  the 
species  above  described. 

Prof.  Peck  secured  enough  material  of  the  species  to  test  it  as  to  its 
edibility,  and  includes  it  under  the  heading  Edible  Fungi,  but  does  not 
describe  the  edible  qualities. 

Hypholoma  Bonghtoni  Pk.  Rep.,  1909:  23.  Pileus  fleshy,  thin 
except  in  the  center,  broadly  convex  or  subhemispheric,  rarely  with  a 
slight  umbo,  glabrous  or  slightly  fibrillose,  often  concentrically  and 
areolately  cracking,  pale  reddish  brown  or  grayish  brown.  Flesh 
whitish,  taste  disagreeable.  Lamellae  unequal,  moderately  close,  ad- 
nate, purplish  brown,  seal  brown  or  blackish,  obscurely  spotted,  whitish 
on  the  edge.  Stem  equal,  floccosely  fibrillose,  striate  at  the  top,  hol- 

733 


Supplement 


low,  white  or  whitish.     Spores  black  on  white  paper,   broadly  elliptic, 
10-12  x  7-8/t. 

Pileus  2.5-7cm.  broad,  stem  2.5-6cm.  long,  4-iomm.  thick. 


(Plate  CCXI.) 


Ground  in  woods  and  in  open  places. 
Near  Pittsford,  Monroe  county,  and  at 
Menands,  New  York.  August. 

This  species  is  closely  allied  to  Hy- 
pJioloma  vclutinnm  (Pcrs.)  Fr.,  from 
which  it  may  be  separated  by  its  dry, 
not  hygrophanous,  pileus,  its  whitish 
flesh  and  stem,  the  absence  of  cystidia 
and  the  larger  spores.  The  spore  print 
of  both  this  and  Hypholoma  rigidipes 
Pk.  is  black  on  white  paper.  This 
would  indicate  a  close  relationship  to 
the  Melanosporae,  not  only  of  these 

(Plate  CCXII.) 


Vanat 

two  species,  but  probably  also  of  the 
closely  related  species,  H.  velutinum 
(Pers.)  Fr.  and  H.  lachrymabundum 
Fr.  Peck. 

There  is  no  report  on  the  edibility  of 
this  species.  It  is,  however,  doubtless 
safe. 

Boletus  acidus  Pk.  Rep.,  1905 :  15. 
Pileus  fleshy,  rather  thin,  firm,  con- 
vex, very  glutinous  when  moist,  yel- 
lowish white,  the  margin  of  the  young 
plants  often  appendiculate  with  frag- 
ments of  the  whitish  floccose  and  glu- 
tinous veil.  Flesh  whitish,  taste  acid  and  disagreeable.  Tubes  short, 
adnate,  concave  in  the  mass  in  young  plants,  becoming  plane  with  age, 
the  mouths  minute,  subrotund,  pale  yellow,  becoming  darker  with  age. 

734 


1/2  nat.i 


Supplement 

Stem  firm,  equal  or  slightly  tapering  upward,  subflexuous,  solid, 
minutely  dotted  with  brown  or  brownish  glands  both  above  and  below 
the  slight,  mostly  glutinous  and  evanescent  annulus.  Spores  subferru- 
gineous,  oblong  elliptic,  .0003-. 0004  of  an  inch  long,  .000 12-. 00016 
broad. 

Pileus  1-2  inches  br»ad.  Stem  1.5-3  inches  long,  2-3  lines  thick. 
Under  pine  and  hemlock  trees.  Port  Henry,  New  York.  August. 

This  species  belongs  to  the  section  Viscipelles.  It  is  closely  related 
to  Boletus  punctipes  and  B.  americamis,  from  which  it  is  separated  by 
its  slight  but  mostly  evanescent  annulus,  and  by  its  acid  taste.  Peck 

The  edible  qualities  of  this  species  are  unknown.  Whatever  may  be 
its  innocence,  its  acidity  renders  it  at  least  forbidding. 

Boletus  AtkinSOni  Pk.  Rep.,   1904:  20.      Pileus  fleshy,  convex  or 
nearly  plane,  dry,  grayish  brown  or  yellowish  brown,  sometimes  min- 
utely rimosely  squamulose.     Flesh  white,  taste  mild.     Tubes  convex, 
plane  or  slightly  concave  in  the  mass, 
adnate  or  slightly  depressed  around  the 
stem,  3-4  lines  long,  the  mouths  min- 
ute, at  first  whitish  and  stuffed,  soon 
open    and    yellow    or   subochraceous. 
Stem  stout,  equal  or  slightly  thickened 
at  one  or  both  ends,  solid  reticulated 
wholly  or  at    the    top  only  with  fine 
anastomosing    brownish    lines,    pallid. 
Spores    fusiform  or  oblong,    .0004  to 
.0005  of  an  inch  long,  .00016  to  .0002 
broad. 

Pileus  3—4  inches  broad ;  stem  2-4 
inches  long,  6—12  lines  thick. 

Woods.  Port  Jefferson,  New  York. 
August. 

The  species  belongs  to  the  section 
Edules.  The  reticulations  of  the  stem 
are  so  delicate  that  they  sometimes 
nearly  disappear  in  drying.  Peck. 

There  is  no  report  available  as  to  the  edible  qualities  of  this  form. 


(Plate  CCXIII.) 


735 


Supplement 


(Plate  CCXIV.) 


Boletus  laricinus  Berk.,  Pk.  in  Rep.,  1904:  46.  Pileus  flesh}-, 
broadly  convex  or  nearly  plane,  viscid  when  moist,  sometimes  squam- 
ose,  dingy  white  or  grayish  white.  Flesh  white.  Tubes  short,  adnate 

or  slightly  decurrent,  whitish  when 
young,  becoming  darker  and  brown 
with  age,  their  mouths  large,  angu- 
lar, subcompound.  Stem  short, 
solid,  annulate,  reticulate  above  the 
ring,  grayish  or  brownish  below. 
Spores  brown,  oblong,  .0004  to 
.0005  of  an  inch  long.  .00016  to 
.0002  broad. 

Under  or  near  larch  trees.  New 
York.  October. 

The  larch  boletus  takes  its  name 
from  its  place  of  growth.  It  is 
closely  related  to  the  Elba  boletus 
(B.  elbensis  Pk.)  which  is  found 
under  or  near  tamarack  trees  in  the 
northern  part  of  our  state.  In  the 

n     ^giifiH^      ^Sl^^i  larch  boletus  the  cap  is  paler  and 

^  i/2nal    has    no    pinkish    brown    tint  which 

often  is  seen  on  the  cap  of  the  Elba 
boletus.  The  cap  is  sometimes  adorned  by  brown  or  blackish  scales 
which  are  easily  rubbed  or  washed  away,  leaving  the  whitish  cap  en- 
tirely naked.  The  flesh  is  soft  and  white  or  whitish.  The  tubes  are  at 
first  whitish,  but  they  change  with  age  to  brownish  and  then  to  a  dark 
sepia  color.  The  mouths  are  large  and  angular.  In  some  cases  shorter 
dissepiments  within  the  larger  tubes  give  them  the  appearance  of  being 
composed  of  two  or  more  smaller  ones.  The  tube  walls  extend  down- 
ward on  the  stem  to  the  ring  and  by  anastomosing  give  the  reticulated 
appearance  called  cribose  in  the  older  descriptions.  This  is  one  of  the 
distinguishing  characters  between  the  larch  boletus  and  the  Elba  boletus. 
The  larch  boletus  is  worthy  of  a  place  among  our  esculent  species.  I 
have  not  yet  tested  the  edible  qualities  of  the  Elba  boletus.  Peck. 

Boletus  multipunctllS  Pk.  Rep  ,  1901  :  952.  Pileus  fleshy,  convex 
or  nearly  plane,  dry,  brownish  ochre,  sometimes  with  a  slight  reddish 

736 


Supplement 


(Plate  CCXV.) 


tint,  the  central  part  adorned  with  many  minute  slightly  darker  areolate 
spots  or  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  taste  mild.  Tubes  small,  adnate  or 
depressed  about  the  stem,  ventricose 
in  the  mass,  the  mouths  subrotund, 
at  first  whitish,  becoming  greenish  yel- 
low. Stem  equal  or  tapering  upward, 
pallid,  solid,  fibrose  striate.  Spores 
dark  olive  green,  oblong,  .00045  to 
.0006  of  an  inch  long,  .00016  to  .0002 
broad. 

Pileus  3  to  4  inches  broad ;  stem  3  to 
5  inches  long,  4  to  8  lines  thick. 

In  woods.  Bolton,  New  York.  August. 

This  species  belongs  to  the  section 
Edules.  It  was  not  found  in  sufficient 
quantity  for  testing  its  edibility,  but  it 
is  probably  edible.  Peck.  **&&•  y9nat 

Scleroderma  verrucosum  maculatum  Pk.  Rep.,  1899:  848.  Sub- 
sessile,  globose  or  depressed  globose,  I  to  3  inches  broad.  Peridium 
thick,  firm,  brown,  adorned  with  minute,  thin,  dark  brown  squamules 

which  often  fall  from  the  upper  part, 
leaving  it  dotted  with  small,  round,  pale 
or  yellowish  spots.  Spores  blackish  in 
the  mass,  globose,  warted,  .0006  to 
.0007  of  an  inch  broad.  Tramal  walls 
yellowish  brown. 

Mucky    soil    in    woods.      Rosendale, 
New  York.      September. 

The  specimens  found  were  too  old  to 
show  the    interior  color  of    the    young 
plant,  and  not  old  enough  to  show  the 
manner  in  which  the  peridium  ruptures. 
The    general    color  of    the  peridium  is 
Vandyke  brown,  and  the  scales  are  so 
minute  that  at  first  sight  it  appears  to  be 
smooth.      On  close  inspection  it  is  seen  to  be  abundantly  dotted  with 
minute  flattened  scales,  which  are  so  loosely  attached  that  they  are  apt 
47  737 


(Plate  CCXVI.) 


Supplement 

to  fall  away,  each  one  leaving  a  small  pale  spot  or  dot  on  the  peridium 
similar  to  those  left  by  the  falling  of  the  warts  from  the  peridium  of 
Lycoperdon  gemmatum.  Scleroderma  verrucosum  is  said  to  be  very 
variable  in  size  and  color  and  in  the  degree  of  roughness  of  the  exterior. 
Its  warts  are  described  as  persistent  and  adnate.  Authors  do  not  agree 
in  their  description  of  the  spores,  one  describing  them  as  minute  and 
another  saying  that  they  are  larger  than  those  of  any  other  species  of 
this  genus.  But  in  no  description  do  I  find  any  reference  to  the  decidu- 
ous character  of  the  scales  and  the  consequent  dotting  of  the  surface  of 
the  peridium  which  is  shown  by  our  specimens.  For  this  reason  it  has 
seemed  best  to  separate  our  plant  as  a  variety  worthy  of  recognition. 
Possibly  a  more  complete  knowledge  of  it  may  show  it  to  be  worthy 
even  of  specific  distinction.  Peck. 

All  North  American  species  of  this  genus,  so  far  as  known  at  present, 
are  edible.  Care  should  be  taken  however  to  pare  them  well;  to  see 
that  the  specimens  are  not  wilted;  to  cut  away  the  bases,  and  to  cook 
them  thoroughly. 

Agaricus  Morgani  Pk.  Since  the  remarks  concerning  this  species 
on  pages  730  and  731  were  set  in  type,  Mr.  O.  E.  Lansing,  Jr.  (who 
collected,  in  1902,  the  material  which  I  then  photographed  and  which 
now  forms  the  upper  half  of  Plate  Vila.)  reports  that:  At  about  6  p. 
m.  he  ate  a  bit,  about  the  size  of  a  silver  quarter,  of  one  of  the  plants 
photographed.  In  about  two  hours  he  was  attacked  with  numbness  of 
the  legs,  faintness,  burning  in  the  throat  and  nausea;  followed  soon  by 
excessive  vomiting  and  purging  which  continued  at  intervals  until  4  a. 
m.  accompanied  by  great  fear  of  death.  Lassitude  and  weakness  super- 
vened but  he  was  able  to  go  about  his  duties  that  morning,  and  no  fur- 
ther unpleasant  effects  followed  so  far  as  he  now  remembers. 

In  both  the  case  of  Mr.  Lansing  and  that  of  Mrs.  Clementson  (page 
730)  the  poisoning  resulted  from  eating  a  small  piece  of  the  raw  plant. 
It  is  possible  that  those  who  have  found  the  species  inocuous  ate  the 
cooked  plant  only.  However,  the  species  is  one  that  should  be  carefully 
diagnosed,  well  separated  in  the  mind  from  A.  procerus,  and  its  collec- 
tion as  a  food  rigidly  avoided.  Millspaugh. 


738 


INDEX  TO  GENERA,  SPECIES  AND  ILLUSTRATIONS 

[The  Roman  numerals  refer  to  the  plates.] 


PAGE 

abietina  (Russula),  CXCVI,  718 

abortivus   (Clitopilus),  LXIV,  257 

abortive  form  (Clitopilus), 

LXIV,  257 

abrupta  (Amanita),  23 

abruptibulbus   (Agaricus),    CCVII,  728 
abruptus  (Agaricus),  343 

acervata  (Collybia),  XXXIa,  122 

ACETABULARIA,  LXXI,  268 

acetabulum  (Peziza),  553 

achimenes  (Agaricus),  340 

acidus  (Boletus),  CCXII,  734 

acuminatum  ( Lycoperdon ) , 

CLXXVI,  607 

acutesquamosa  (Lepiota),  40 

adiposa  (Pholiota),  LXXIV,  276 

adirondackensis  (Clitocybe), 

CXCI,  713 
admirabilis  (Pluteus),  248 

var.  fuscus  (Pluteus),  248 

adnata  (Amanitopsis),  30 

adusta  (Russula),  188 

jfiruginosa  (Stropharia),        XCVI,  349 
asstivalis  (Boletus),  449 

aestivum  (Tuber),  CLIV,  566 

affinis  (Boletus),  CXX,  448 

var.  maculosus,  449 

AGARICUS,  HI,  XCII,  331 

agglutinata  (Amanitopsis),  32 

aggregatum  (Hypholoma),  361 

albella  (Russula),  194 

albellum  (Tricholoma),  77 

albellus  (Boletus),  464 

albida  (Tremella),  531 

albido-tomentosus  (Panus),  235 

albidum  (Hydnum),         CXXXIII,  499 
alboater  (Boletus),  460 

albo-griseus  (Clitopilus),  259 

aibo-nigrum  (Hydnum),  498 

albo-violaceus  (Cortinarius), 

LXXXIV,  316 

album  (Tricholoma),  79 

albus  (Boletus),  415 

ALDRIDGEA,  506 

aliena  (Flammula),  288 

alliaceus  (Marasmius),  227 

alligatus  (Polyporus),  488 

alluvina  (Lepiota),  43 

alnicola  (Flammula),        LXXVIb.  290 


alutacea  (Russula), 
alutaceus  (Boletus), 
alutarius  (Boletus), 
alveolatus  (Boletus), 
AMANITA, 
AMANITOPSIS, 
Americana  (Lepiota), 
Americanus  (Boletus), 


PAGE 

207 

426 

468 

455 

V,   2 

V,  28 

XII,  XVa,  48 
413 


amethystina  (Clavaria),  CXXXIX,  516 
amethystina  (Clitocybe),  XXIV,  107 
Ananas  (Boletus),  473 

anax  (Polyporus),  482 

ANELLARIA,  CI,  388 

angusticeps   (Morchella),  544 

annulatus  (Cortinarius),  319 

appendiculata  (Armillaria),  54 

appendiculatum  (Hypholoma), 

XCVII,  363 

var.  lanatum,  363 

appendiculatus  (Boletinus),  400 

APYRENIUM,  527 

aquifluus  (Lactarius),  176 

var.  brevissimus,  177 

argenteus  (Agaricus),  339 

ARMILLARIA,  V,     52 

armillatus  (Cortinarius), 

LXXXII,  LXXXVIII,  323 
arvensis  (Agaricus),  341 

asper  (Cortinarius),  LXXXV,  317 
aspera  (Amanita),  23 

asterospermuin  (Lycoperdon),  594 

ASTR^EUS,  578 

Atkinsoni   (Boletus),  CCXIII,  735 

atomata  (Psathyrella),  390 

atramentarius  (Coprinus),  CHI,  373 
atropurpurea  (Russula),  206 

atropurpureum  (Lycoperdon),  593 

var.  hirtellum,  593 

var.  stellare,  593 

atro-tomentosus  (Paxillus),  329 

aurantia   (Peziza),  C XXXV I,  557 

aurantiacus  (Cantharellus), 

C XXXV I,  216 

var.  pallidus,  217 

aurantio-cinnabarino  (Clavaria),  523 
aurata  (Russula),  206 

aurea  (Clavaria),  CXXXIX,  520 

var.  rufescens,  520 

auricula-Judea  (Hirneola), 

CXLIII,  528 


739 


Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 


AURICULARIA, 
auriflammeus  (Boletus), 
auripes  (Boletus), 
auriporus  (Boletus), 
autumnalis  (Cortinarius), 

LXXXVIa 


badia  (Peziza),  CLII, 

badiceps  (Boletus),  CXVI, 

badius  (Boletus), 

basifurcata  (Russula), 

BATARREA, 

Berkeleyi  (Polyporus), 

Betula  (Boletus), 

betulinus  (Panus), 

betulinus  (Polyporus), 

bicolor  (Boletus), 

bilamellata  (Stropharia), 

bispora  (Morchella), 

var.  truncata, 

blennius  (Lactarius),  XL/a, 

BOLBITIUS,  LXXI, 

BOLETINUS,  396, 

BOLETUS,  396, 

Boltoni  (Bolbitius), 
bombycina  (Volvaria),  LIX,  LIXa, 
borealis  (Boletinus), 
borealis  (Hygrophorus), 
botrytes  (Clavaria), 
bovinus  (Boletus), 
bovinus  (Mutinus), 
BOVISTA,  579, 

bovisto  (Scleroderma), 
BOVISTELLA,  578, 

brevipes  (Boletus), 
brevipes  (Cantharellus), 

XLVI,  XLIX, 

brevipes  (Russula),  XLVI), 

brevipes  Tricholoma), 
brevis  (Mutinus), 
Boughtoni   (Hypholoma),       CCXI, 
brumalis  (Clitocybe), 
brunnea  (Gyromitra),          CXLIX, 
butyracea  (Collybia),  XXX, 


PAGE 
526 
423 
450 
426 

,  319 

554 
436 
418 
205 
577 
484 
437 
235 
488 
425 
732 
544 
544 
165 
302 
398 
404 
302 
240 
403 
154 
515 
419 
575 
610 
616 
608 
416 

219 

189 
81 
576 
733 
105 
547 
117 


cselata  (Calvatia), 
casrulescens  (Cortinarius), 
Csesarea  (Amanita), 
caespitosus  (Boletus), 
caespitosus   (Clitopilus), 
CALDESIELLA, 
Californica  (Helvella), 
Californicum  (Terfezia), 
Calif ornicus  (Agaricus), 
CALOCERA, 
calopus  (Boletus), 
calopus  (Marasmius), 
CALVATIA, 

calvescens  (Lycoperdon), 
calycina  (Peziza), 
calyptrata  (Amanita), 


585 
311 

12 
434 
261 
492 
537 
566 
338 
527 
440 
226 

578,  582 
605 
560 

26 


PAGE 

calyptrata  albescens  (Amanita), 

CLXXXIII,  707 

calyptriforme  (Lycoperdon),  603 

campanella  (Omphalia),  134 

campanulatus  (Paneeolus),  386 
canipester  (Agaricus), 

XCIII,  XCIIIa,  332 

var.  albus,  332 

var.  Buchani,  333 

var.  elongatus, 

var.  griseus,  332 

var.  hortensis, 

var.  praticola,  332 

var.  rufescens, 

var.  umbrinus, 

var.  vaporarius,  333 

var.  villaticus,  333 

camphoratus  (Lactarius),  184 

candicans  (Clitocybe),  92 

Candida  (Amanita),  20 

Candolleanum  (Hypholoma),  363 

caninus  (Mutinus),                 CLIX,  575 

CANTHARELLUS,  214 

cantharellus  (Craterellus),  508 
cantharellus  (Hygrophorus), 

XXXVII,  156 


var.  flava, 
var.  flavipes, 
var.  flaviceps, 
var.  Rosea, 
caperata  (Pholiota), 


156 
156 
156 
156 
LXXIa,  270 


capnoides  ((Hypholoma),  356 
caput-Medus*  (Hydnum),  CXXXV,  502 
caput-ursi  (Hydnum),  CXXXIVa,  501 

carneo-albus  (Clitopilus),  258 

carneo-grisea  (Eccilia),  LXIX,  265 

carneus  (Irpex),  504 

Caroliniana  (Gyromitra),  547 

castaneus  (Boletus),  CXIV,  472 

castaneus  (Cortinarius),  325 

CATASTOMA,  579,  609 

catina  (Clitocybe),  104 

cavipes  (Boletinus),  399 
cepaesf orme  ( Lycoperdon ) , 

CLXXVa,  606 

cepsestipes  (Lepiota),  XII,     46 

ceraceus  (Hygrophorus),  155 

cerodes  (Naucoria),  295 

cerussata  (Clitocybe),  91 

cervinus  (Pluteus),  LXI,  243 

var.  albus,  244 

var.  albipes,  244 

var.  viscosus,  244 

var.  Bullii,  LXI,  245 

var.  petasatus,  246 

chamaeolentina  (Russula),  212 

chelidonium  (Lactarius),  172 

chioneus  (Polyporus),  488 

CHITONIA,  XCI,  XCII,  330 

chlorinosina  (Amanita),  IX,     25 


740 


Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 


PAGE 

chlorocephala  (Leotia),  540 

chlorophanus   (Hygrophorus),  160 

chromapes  (Boletus),  464 

chrysenteroides  (Tricholoma),  75 

chrysenteron  (Boletus),  431 
chrysodon  (Hygrophorus), 

var.  leucodon,  149 

chrysophaeus  (Pluteus),  249 
cibarius  (Cantharellus, 

XLVI.  XLVII,  215 

cinnabarinus  (Cantharellus),     CC,  722 

cinnabarinus  (Cortinarius),  320 

var.  1,  321 
cinnamomeus  ( Cortinarius ) , 

LXXXVII,  322 

var.  semi-sanguineus,  323 

cinerea  (Clavaria),                    XCL,  517 

circinans  (Clavaria),             CXLII,  521 

circinatus  (Pleurotus),  140 

circinatus  (Polyporus),  480 

var.  proliferus,  480 
circumscissum  (Catastoma), 

CLXXVIII,  609 

citrina  (Amanita),  7 

citrina  (Russula),  203 

CLADODERRIS,  507 

CLATHRUS,  571 

CLAUDOPUS,             LVIHa,  LXX,  266 

CLAVARIA,                                      511,  513 

clavata  (Clavaria),  525 

clavata  (Spathularia),      CXXXVI,  549 

clavatus  (Craterellus),  509 

clavipes  (Clitocybe),                XXV,  86 

Clintonianus  (Boletus),  410 

CLITOCYBE,                                     V,  83 

CLITOPILUS,                         LVIIIa,  254 

clypeatum  (Entoloma),  252 

clypeolaria  (L,epiota),CLXXXVIII,  711 

coccinea  (Peziza),             CXXXVI,  559 
coccineus  (Hygrophorus), 

CXXXVI,  156 

cochleata  (Peziza),  555 

cochleatus  (Lentinus),  231 

collariata  (Mycena),  130 

collinitus  (Boletus),  417 

collinitus  (Cortinarius),  LXXXIII,  313 

COLLYBIA,                                          V,  112 

coloratum  (Lycoperdon),CrZ/XXy&,  607 

columbetta  (Tricholoma),    XVIII,  68 

var.  A,  69 

var.  B,  69 

var.  C,  69 

comatus  (Coprinus),                   CII,  370 

var.  breviceps,  370 

comitialis  (Clitocybe),  88 

compressipes  (Clitocybe),  110 

comptulus  (Agaricus),  334 

conchatus  (Panus),  232 

confluens  (Collybia),  119 

confluens  (Polyporus),  484 


PAGE 

congregatus  (Coprinus),  379 

conica  (Morchella),  543 

conicus  (Boletus),  466 

conicus  (Hygrophorus),  160 

CONIOPHORA,  506 

conissans  (Clitopilus),  261 

connexa  (Clitocybe),  97 

constellatum  (Lycoperdon),  CLXV,  592 
controversus  (Lactarius),  164 

COPRINUS,  07,  368 

coralloides  (Clavaria),  517 

coralloides  (Hydnum),     CXXXIV,  501 
cornucopoides  (Craterellus), 

CXXXVI,  509 

corrugatus    (Cor-tinarius),      CCIV,  725 
corrugis  (Lactarius),  178 

CORTICIUM,  507 

CORTINARIUS,  LXXI,  306 

coryphasum   (Tricholoma),  62 

craniiformis   (Calvatia),     CLXHI,  586 
crassipes   (Boletus),  CXVI,  452 

crassipes  (Morchella),  543 

CRATERELLUS,  507,  508 

crenulata  (Amanita),  27 

CREPIDOTUS,         LXXI,  LXXXI,  304 
cretaceus  (Agaricus),  344 

crispa  (Helvella),  CXLVI,  536 

var.  alba,  536 

var.  Grevillei,  536 

var.  incarnata,  536 

var.  fulva,  536 

crispa  (Sparassis),          CXXXVII,  512 
cristata  (Clavaria),  CXLI,  518 

cristata  (Lepiota),  42 

cristatus  (Polyporus),  484 

crustosa   (Russula),  CXCVII,  719 

crustuliniforme   (Hebeloma),  286 

var.  minor,  286 

cupricum  (Lycoperdon),  594 

curtipes  (Gyromitra),  547 

Curtisii   (Boletus),  442 

Curtisii   (Lycoperdon),         CLXX,  601 

(L.  Wrightii,  var.  typicum) 
cyanescens  (Boletus),  471 

cyanophaea  (Clitocybe),  88 

cyanoxantha  (Russula),         XLIV,  198 
cyathiformis  (Calvatia),      CLXII,  584 

(L.  cyathiforme) 

cyathiformis   (Clitocybe),  104 

var.  cinerascens,  105 

CYCLOMYCES,  398 

CYPHELLA,  507 


DACRYOMYCES, 
DACRYOPSIS 
DAEDALEA, 
daemonum  (Phallus), 
daucipes   (Amanita), 
dealbata  (Clitocybe), 
decastes  (Clitocybe), 


527 

527 

397 

572 

25 

93 

94 


741 


Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 


PAGE 

deceptivus  (Lactarius),  168 

decipiens  (Boletinus),  401 

decolorans  (Russula),  205 

DECONICA,  XCII,  367 

decorosum   (Tricholoma),  XX,     67 

decorus  OBoletus),  450 

deformis  (Irpex),  505 

delica  (Russula),  190 

delicata  (Lepiota),  49 

delicatum  (Lycoperdon),  595 

deliciosa  (Morchella),  543 

deliciosus  (Lactarius),  XLI,  170 

deliquescens  (Coprinus),  379 

densa  (Clavaria),  519 

depallens  (Russula),  192 

dichotoma  (Clavaria),  522 
dichotomus  (Cantharellus),      CCI,  723 

dichrous  (Boletus),  417 

dictyocephalus  (Boletus),  428 

digitaliformis  (Verpa),  539 

diminutivus  (Agaricus),  335 

discolor  (Pholiota),  279 

var.  discolor  minor,  280 

dispersus  (Hypholoma),  358 
disseminata  (Psathyrella),      CXI,  391 

distans  (Cortinarius),  325 

distans  (Lactarius),  CXCIV,  716 

distans  (Hygrophorus),  154 

DITIOLA,  527 

ditopa  (Clitocybe),  109 

domesticus  (Coprinus),  CVI,  381 

dryinus  (Pleurotus),  137 

dryophila  (Collybia),  XXIXa,  120 

dubius  (Craterellus),  509 

duplicatus  (Phallus),  572 

dura.  (Pholiota),  271 

duriusculus  (Boletus),  463 

eburneus  (Hygrophorus),  149 

eccentricus  (Boletus),  CXVI,  470 
ECCILIA,                LVIII,  LXVIIIa,  265 

echinatuym  (Lycoperdon),  CLVI,  591 
edulis  (Boletus),     CXVIII,  CXIX,  445 

var.  clavipes,  CXIX,  445 
edulis,  var.  clavipes  (Boletus),         446 

edulis  (Plammula),  289 

elaeodes  (Hypholoma),  358 

elastica  (Helvella),  538 

var.  alba,  538 

elata  (Calvatia),  CLXIV,  588 

Elbensis  (Boletus),  408 

elegans  (Boletus),  409 

elegans  (Lycoperdon),  596 

elegans  (Russula),  200 

elongatum  (Lycoperdon),  596 

Elvensis  (Agaricus),  338 

emetica  (Russula),  XLIV,  201 

ENTOLOMA,  LVIIIa,  250 
ephemerus  (Coprinus), 

epixanthum   (Hypholoma),  357 


PAGE 

equestre  (Tricholoma),  61 

var.  pinastreti,  62 

erinaceum  (Hydnum),  502 

erubescens  (Hygrophorus).  150 

erythrosporus  (Clitopilus),  261 

esculenta  (Collybia),  120 

esculenta  (Gyromitra),                VI,  546 

var.  crispa,  54G 

esculenta  (Morchella),           XLVI,  542 

esculentoides  (Collybia),  120 

excelsa  (Amanita),  17 

excipuliforme  (Lycoperdon),  599 

excoriata  (Lepiota),  36 

EXIDIA,  526 

eximium   (Lycoperdon),      CLXIX,  601 

eximius  (Boletus),  447 

EXOBASIDIUM,  507 


fabaceus  (Agaricus), 
farinaceus  (Panus), 

var.  albido-tomentosus, 
farinosa  (Amauitopsis), 
farinosa  (Lepiota), 


341 
235 

235 
31 
47 


fascicularis  (Hypholoma),   XCVIa,  357 

fastibile   (Hebeloma),        LXXVIa,  284 

var.  alba,  285 

var.  elegans,  285 

fastigiata  (Clavaria),  516 

FAVOLUS,  398 

felina  (Lepiota),  41 

felleus  (Boletus),  CXXII,  469 

var.  obesus,  469 

fennicum  (Hydnum),  500 

f errugineo-griseus    ( Cortinari us ) , 

CCV,  727 

ferrugineum  (Hydnum),  498 

ferrugineus  (Boletus),  443 

flmbriata  (Tremella),  530 

fimetarius  (Coprinus),  CT,  376 

var.  pullatus,  376 

var.  cinereus,  377 

var.  macrorhiza,  377 

var.  silvicola,  377 

flmicola  (Panaeolus),  385 

firma  (Hepatica),  477 

firmus  (Boletus),  457 

FISTULINA,  397,  477 

fistulosus  (Boletus),  411 

flaccida  (Clavaria),  521 

flaccida  (Clitocybe),  103 

flammans  (Pholiota),  277 

FLAMMULA,  LXXI,  287 

flava  (Clavaria),  514 

flava  (Galera),  301 

flavescens  (Tricholoma),  67 

flavida  (Flammula),  291 

flavida  (Russula),  XLIV,  197 

flavidus  (Boletus),  413 

flavo-brunneum   (Tricholoma),  65 


742 


Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 


PAGE 
flavo-discus   (Hygrophorus), 

XXXIX,  157 

llavus  (Boletus),  411 

flexuosipes  (Boletus),  443 

floccopus  (Strobilomyces),  476 

floccosus  (Cantharellus),       XLVI,  218 

foedoratus  (Agaricus),  339 

fcetens  (Russula),  199 

var.  granulata,  200 

FOMES,  397 

formosa   (Clavaria),          CXXXIX,  520 

fragilis   (Bolbitius),              LXXX,  303 

fragilis  (Calvatia),  584 

fragilis  (Russula),  203 

var.  nivea,  204 

fragrans  (Boletus),  451 

fragrans  (Clitocybe),  110 

fraternus  (Boletus),  433 

Friesii  (Lepiota),  39 

frondosus   (Polyporus),    CXXVIII,  483 

Frostiana  (Amanita),                VI,  16 

var.  pallidipcs  (Amanita),  707 

Frostii  (Boletus),  458 

Frostii  (Lycoperdon),  591 

frumentaceum  (Tricholoma),  66 

frustulosus  (Boletus),  452 

fuligineum  (Tricholoma),  70 

fuligineus  (Hygrophorus),        XL,  158 

fuliginosus  (Lactarius),  174 

fulvo-tomentosus  (Crepidotus),  305 

fulvus  (Boletus),                      CXVI,  465 

fumescens  (Tricholoma),  72 

fumidellum  (Tricholoma),  78 

fumosa  (Clitocybe),  97 

var.  polius,  97 

fumosipes  (Boletus),  432 

fumosus  (Lactarius),  175 

furcata  (Russula),  191 

furfurellus  (Cortinarius),  325 

fuscescens  (Coprinus),  374 

fusco-violaceus  (Irpex),  505 

fusiformis  (Clavaria),   CXXXVIII,  523 

fuscipes   (Clitocybe),  92 

fusipes  (Collybia),               XXIXa,  116 

GALERA,                                   LXXI,  299 

galericulata  (Mycena),  X,  XXXII,  127 

var.  calopus,  128 

var.  longipes,  128 

var.  expansus,  128 

gallinacea  (Clitocybe),  94 

gambosum  (Tricholoma),  76 

gangrsenosa  (Clitocybe),  86 

var.  nigrescens,  87 

GEASTER,                                      578,  580 

geaster  (Scleroderma),  617 

gelatinosum  (Hydnum),  501 

gelatinosum  (Tremelledon), 

CXLV,  533 


PAGE 

gemrnatum  ( Lycoperdon ) , 

CLXVIIa,  598 

var.  hirtum,  598 

var.  papillatum,  598 

GEOGLOSSUM,  535,  550 

geotropa  (Clitocybe),  102 

Gerardii  (Lactarius),  179 

gigantea  (Clitocybe),  98 

gigantea  (Calvatia),  583 

giganteus  (Polyporus),  485 

gilva  (Clitocybe),  101 

glabellum  (Lycoperdon),  CLXVI,  595 

glabellus  (Boletus),  425 
glabriceps  (Amanita),    CLXXXIV,  708 

gloiocephala  (Volvaria),  242 
glutinosum   (Geoglossum),        CLI,  550 

glutinosum  (Hebeloma),  LXXIa,  285 

glutinosus  (Gomphidius),  393 

var.  roseus,  393 

glyciosmus  (Lactarius),  175 

GOMPHIDIUS,  CI,  392 

gracilenta  (Lepiota),  37 

gracilis  (Boletus),  CXIV,  467 

var.  laevipes,  467 

gracilis  (Psathyrella),  389 

graciloides  (Psathyrella),  CX,  390 

grammopodium  (Tricholoma),  80 

grande  (Entoloma),  251 

grande  (Tricholoma),  68 

GRANMNIA,  493 

granularis   (Pluteus),  247 

granulatus  (Boletus),  416 

granulosa  (Lepiota),  49 

var.  rufescens,  49 

var.  albida,  49 

graveolens  (Entoloma),  CCII,  724 

griseus  (Boletus),  442 

GUEPINIA,  527 

GYROCEPHALUS,  527 

GYROMITRA,  535,  546 

haematopa  (Mycena),  130 
hasmorrhoidarius  (Agaricus), 

CCVIII,  336,  729 

hamadryas  (Naucoria),  295 

HEBELOMA,  LXXI,  283 

HELIOMYCES,  V,  228 

HELVELLA,  534,  536 

hemichrysus   (Boletus),  421 

var.  mutabilis,  422 

hepatica  (Fistulina),  CXXV,  477 

var.  monstrosa,  478 

Herbstii  (Sparassis),  512 

Herveyi  (Clavaria),  517 

heteroclitus  (Polyporus),  486 

heterophylla  (Russula),  199 

HEXAGONIA,  398 

HIATULA,  V,  132 

hiemalis  (Clavatia),  585 

HIRNEOLA,  526,  528 


743 


Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 


PACE 

hirtellus  (Boletus),  414 

hirtum  (Lycoperdon),  592 

hispida  (Lepiota),  41 

holosericea  (Lepiota),  44 

humile  (Tricholoma),            XVIII,  81 

hybrida  (Flammula),  291 

HYDNUM,                                         492,  494 

hygrometricus  (Geaster),        CLX,  580 

hygrophoroides  (Lactarius),  XL//,  180 

HYGROPHORUS,                               V,  147 

HYMENOCH.ETE,  507 

HYPHOLOMA,                            XCII,  352 

HYPOMYCES,  561 

hypothejus  (Hygrophorus),  151 

hysginus  (Lactarius),  166 


ignoratus  (Boletus), 
illinita  (Lepiota), 
illudens  (Boletus), 


419 
50 
CXVIII,  439 


illudens  (Clitocybe),  Frontispiece,  96 

imbricatum  (Hydnum),  495 

imbricatum  (Tricholoma),  XXIII,  73 

immitis  (Polyporus),  487 

impolitus  (Boletus),  449 

impudicus  (Phallus),  573 

inaequalis  (Clavaria),  523 

incertum  (Hypholoma),     XCVIII,  362 

indecisus  (Boletus),              CXXII,  468 

indigo  (Lactarius),                    XLI,  171 

inflexus  (Boletus),  410 

infula  (Helvella),  538 
inf undibulif ormis  ( Clitocybe ) , 

XXIV,  100 

innixus  (Boletus),  427 

INOCYBE,                    LXXI,  LXXV,  281 


insulsus  (Lactarius), 
Integra  (Russula), 
intrusus  ( Cortinarius ) , 
intumescens  ( Tremella ) , 
intybaceus  (Polyporus), 
inversus  (Clitocybe), 
involutus  (Lactarius), 
involutus  (Paxillus), 
iodes  (Cortinarius), 
IRPEX, 
Isabellinus  (Boletus), 

KNEIPFIA, 
LACCARIA, 


165 
204 
310 
532 

CXXIX,  483 
103 
170 

XC,  328 
314 

493,  504 
472 

493 


XXIV, 


laccata  (Clitocybe), 

var.  pallidifolia, 

var.  striatula, 

lachrymabundum  ( Hypholoma ) , 
LACTARIUS,  V,  107, 

lactea  (Russula), 
lactifluorum  (Hypomyces), 

CXXXVI, 
lacunosa  (Helvella), 


107 

107 
107 
107 
361 
161 
194 


562 
637 


PAGE 

laevigatum  (Hydnum),  495 

laevis  (Panus),  234 

lagopus  (Coprinus),  380 

var.  nemorum,  380 

var.  viarum,  380 

laminosa  (Sparassis),  512 

laricinus  (Boletus),  CCXIV,  736 

LATERNA,  571 

latifolia  (Mycena),  129 

lateritia  (Galera),  299 

laurae  (Hygrophorus),  CXCIII,  715 

Lecomtei  (Lentinus),  229 

lenticularis  (Amanita),  25 

lenticularis  (Lepiota),  50 

LENTINUS,  V,  LII,  228 

LENZITES,  V,  238 

leonis  (Terfezia),  CLIII,  566 

LEOTIA,  535,  540 

lepida  (Russula),  195 

lepideus  (Lentinus),  XVI,  230 

LEPIOTA,  V,  33 

lepista  (Paxillus),  327 

leporina  (Peziza),  556 

leprosus  (Boletus),  448 

leptocephalus  (Boletus),  451 
LEPTONIA,  LVIIIa,  LXVI,  263 

leucocephalum  (Tricholoma),  78 

leucomelas  (Polyporus),  480 

lignatilis  (Pleurotus),  140 

var.  abscondens,  140 

lignyotus  (Lactarius),  177 

var.  tenuipes,  177 

lilacinus  (Cortinarius),  316 

limacinus  (Hygrophorus),  151 

limatulus  (Boletus),  450 

Linnaei  (Russula),  196 

lividus  (Paxillus),  327 

longipes  (Collybia),  115 

lubrica  (Leotia),  CXLVII,  540 

luridus  (Boletus),  455 

var.  erythropus,  456 

lutea  (Russula),  211 

luteofolia  (Pholiota),  277 

luteolus  (Lactarius),  178 
lutescens  (Cantharellus),CZX.TF/,  218 

lutescens  (Tremella),  530 

luteus  (Boletus),  412 

LYCOPERDON,  578,  589 

macropus  (Peziza),  553 

macrosporus  (Coprinus),  CIV,  374 

maculata  (Collybia),  116 

var.  immaculata,  117 

maculatus  (Polyporus),  486 

maculosa  (Clitocybe),  CXCII,  714 

magna  (Flammula),  292 

magnificus  (Agaricus),  XCIV,  342 

magnisporus  (Boletus),  458 

magnivelaris  (Amanita),  10 

mappa  (Amanita),  10 


744 


Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 


PAGE 

MARASMIUS,  V,  221 

marginata  (Pholiota),  279 

Mariae  (Russula),  209 

maritimus  (Agaricus),  337 

niastoidea  (Lepiota),  37 

mastrucatus  (Pleurotus),  146 

maxima  (Clitocybe),  XXIV,     99 

media  (Clitocybe),  XXVI,     87 


mellea  (Armillaria), 

abortive  forms, 

var.  albida, 

var.  bulbosa, 

var.  exannulata, 

var.  flava, 

var.  glabra, 

var.  obscura, 

var.  radicata, 
MERULIUS, 


XVI,  XVII,  55 
56 
56 
56 

XVI,  56 
56 
56 
56 
56 
398,  490 


mesenterica  (Tremella),     CXLIV,  530 

nietachroa  (Clitocybe),  109 

metulsespora  (Lepiota),  43 

micaceus  (Coprinus),                CHI,  378 

var.  granularis,  378 

micropus  (Clitopilus),  259 

miniato-olivaceus  (Boletus),  424 

var.  sensibilis,  424 

miniatus  (Hygrovborus),  XXXVII,  159 

var.  lutescens,  159 

minor  (Bovista),                CLXXIX,  612 

minor  (Cantharellus),  216 

mitis  (Boletus),  418 

mitissimus  (Lactarius),  181 

MITRBMYCES,  578 

MITRULA,                                        535,  548 

modestus  (Boletus),  442 

molle  (Lycoperdon),  602 

monadelpha  (Clitocybe),     XXVII,  89 

MONTAGNITES,                              CI,  395 

Montana  (Bovista),  611 

monticulosa  (Amanita),  25 

morbifera  (Clitocybe),  106 

MORCHELLA,                                 535,  541 
Morgani  (Agaricus), 

Vila,  XIV,     37,  730,  738 

Morgani  (Boletus),  437 

Morrisii  (Amanita),         CLXXXV,  709 

mucida  (Armillaria),  58 

MUCRONELLA,  493 

MUCRONOPORUS,  397 

multiceps  (Clitocybe),        XXVIII,  95 

multipunctus  (Boletus),        CCXV,  736 
multisquamosa  (Amanita), 

CLXXXVI,  709 

Murrayi  (Boletus),  472 
muscaria  (Amanita), 

VI,  Vila,  VIII,  14 

var.  regalis,  14 

var.  formosa,  14 

var.  umbrina,  14 

var.  alba,  15 


PAGE 

muscoides  (Clavaria),  516 

muscorum  (Lycoperdon),  602 

mussivum  (Hebeloma),  283 

mutabilis  (Boletus),  435 

mutabilis  (Pholiota),  278 

mutabilis  (Lactarius),  183 

MUTINUS,  570,  575 

MYCENA,  T7.  124 

MYCENASTRUM,  579,  613 

mycetophila   (Tremella),  CXLIVa,  531 
MYRISOTOMA,  577 

NyEMATELIA,  527 

nardosmia  (Armillaria),  57 

naucina  (Lepiota),  44 

naucinioides  (Agaricus),  XII,  XV,  731 
naucinoides  (Lepiota),  XII,  XV,  45,  731 

var.  squamosa,  45 

NAUCORIA  LXXI,  294 

nauseosa  (Russula),  211 

nebularis  (Clitocybe),  XXIV,     85 

nebulosus  (Boletus),  465 

nidulans  (Claudopus),  267 

nigrellus  (Boletus),  470 

nigrescens  (Bovista),  611 

nigricans  (Russula),  187 

var.  albonigra,  188 

nitida  (Amanita),  24 

iiitidus  (Hygrophorus),  151 

nivalis  (Amanitopsis),  X,     29 

niveum  (Tuckahoe),  CLIII,  565 

(Terfezia  leonis) 

niveus  (Coprinus),  378 

niveus  (Hygrophorus),  XXXVII,  153 

nobilis  (Bolbitius),  LXXXa,  303 
NOLANEA,               LVIIIa,  LXVII,  264 

Noveboracensis  (Clitopilus),  262 

var.  brevis,  262 

nudum  (Tricholoma),  80 

NYCTALIS,  V,  220 

obliquus  (Irpex),  504 

oblongisporum  (Lycoperdon),  606 

ochracea  (Russula),  210 

ochraceus  (Cortinarius),  LXXXII,  319 
ochroleuca  (Russula),  202 

ochrophylla  (Russula),  193 

ochropurpurea  (Clitocybe),  XXIV,  108 
ODONTIA,  493 

odora  (Clitocybe),  XXIV,     90 

odorata  (Peziza),  558 

Ohiensis   (Bovistella),     CLXXVIa,  608 
olivacea  (Russula),  197 

OMPHALIA,  V,  132 

oniscus  (Omphalia),  133 

onotica  (Peziza),  556 

opicum  (Tricholoma),  75 

orcella  (Clitopilus),  LXV,  256 

oreades  (Marasmius),  LI,  224 

Oregonensis  (Gomphidius),  393 


745 


Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 


ornatipes  (Boletus), 
or»ella  (Pholiota), 
ostreatus  (Pleurotus), 

var.  glandulosus, 

var.  euosmus, 
ovatus  (Coprinus), 
ovinus  (Polyporus), 

pachyderma  (Calvatia), 
pachypus  (Bolotus), 
paedidum  (Tricholoma), 
pallida  (Fistulina), 
pallidus  (Boletus), 
pallidus  (Lactarius), 
paluster  (Boletinus), 


PAGE 
440 
278 

XXXV,  142 
143 
143 
372 
479 

583 

441 
82 

478 
CXVII,  429 

173 
CXIIa,  401 


PANJEOLUS,  CI,  CVIII,  384 

pantherina  (Amanita),  17 

PANUS,  V,  232 

papilionaceus  (Panaeolus),  386 

parabolica  (Mycena),  128 

parasiticus  (Boletus),  427 

parasiticus  (Nyctalis),  L,  220 

parvus  (Boletus),  459 

pascuensis  (Clitopilus),  256 

patuloides  (Agaricus),  CCIX,  731 

PAXILLUS,  LXXI,  326 

Peckianum  (Entoloma),  CCIII,  725 

Peckii  (Boletus),  440 

var.  laevipes,  440 

pectinata  (Russula),  202 

pediades  (Naucoria),  296 
pedicellatum  (Lycoperdon), 

CLXVIII,  600 

pellitus  (Pluteus),  247 

penarius  (Hygrophorus),  150 

PENIOPHORA,  507 

pergamenus  (Lactarius),  167 

perlatum  (Lycoperdon),  599 

peronatus  (Marasmius),  223 

perplexum  (Hypholoma),  XCVII,  354 

personatum  (Tricholoma),  XVIII,     79 

pessundatum  (Tricholoma),  66 

petaloides  (Pleurotus),  144 

PEZIZA,  552 
phalloides  (Amanita),         VI,  VII,      7 

PHALLUS,  570,  571 

PHLEBIA,  493 

PHOLIOTA,  LXXI,  269 

phyllophila  (Clitocybe),  91 

picaceus  (Coprinus),  375 

var.  ebulbosus,  376 

picipes  (Polyporus),  481 

pictus  (Boletinus),  400 

pila  (BovisU,),  610 
PILOSACE,                      XCII,  XCV,  348 

pinophila  (Clitocybe),  110 

piperatum  (Tricholoma),  76 

piperatus  (Boletus),  420 

piperatus  (Lactarius),  XLI,  168 


PAGE 
pisocarpium  ( Polysaccum ) , 

CLXXXII,  618 

PISTILLARIA,  511 

pistillaris  (Clavaria),    C XXXVIII,  524 
pithyophylla  (Clitocybe),  91 

placomyces  (Agaricus),         XCIII,  345 
platyphylla  (Collybia),        XXIXa,  114 

var.  repens,  115 

platysperma  (Naucoria),  297 

PLEUROTUS,  V,  135 

plicatilis  (Coprinus),  383 

plumbea  (Bovista),  612 

plumbeus  (Lactarius),  167 

PLUTEOLUS,  LXXI,  282 

PLUTEUS,  LVIIIa,  243 

Pocono  (Boletus),  474 

POLYPLOCIUM,  577 

POLYPORUS,  397,  479 

POLYSACCUM,  618 

POLYSTICTUS,  397 

pometi  (Pleurotus),  142 

ponderosa  (Armillaria),  54 

popinalis  (Clitopilus),  258 

PORIA,  397 

poripes  (Polyporus),  487 

porosus  (Boletinus),  CXIII,  402 

var.  opacus,  402 

POROTHELIUM,  493 

portentosum  (Tricholoma),  64 

praecox  (Pholiota),  LXXII,  272 

var.  minor,  272 

var.  sylvestris,  272 

praiicola  (Amanita),  24 

pratensis  (Agaricus),  340 

pratensis  (Hygrophorus). 

XXXVII,  XXXVIII,  152 
procera  (Lepiota),  XIII,     35 

prolifera  (Mycena),  X,  126 

prunuloides  (Entoloma),  252 

prunulus  (Clitopilus), 

LXIII,  LXIV,  255 

abortive  form,  LXIV,  256 

PSATHYRA,  XCII,  C,  367 

PSATHYRELLA,  CI,  389 

PSILOCYBE,  XCII,  365 

PTERULA,  511 

pubescens  (Amanitopsis),  32 

pubescens  (Pleurotus),  141 

puellaris  (Russula),  XLIV,  208 

var.  intensior,  208 

var.  roseipes,  208 

pulcherrimum  (Lycoperdon),  591 

(L.  Frostii) 

pulmonarius  (Pleurotus),  146 

punctata  (Russula),  204 

punctipes  (Boletus),  415 

puniceus  (Hygrophorus),  159 

purpurascens  (Cortinarius),  311 

var.  subpurpurascens,  312 

purpureus  (Boletus),  456 


746 


Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 


PAGE 

purpureus  (Hypomyces),  563 

purpurina  (Russula),  XLVa,  188 
pusilla  (Amanitopsis), 

pusilla  (Russula),  208 

pusillum  (Lycoperdon),  CLXXV,  605 

pyriforme  (Lycoperdon),  CLXXII,  603 

pyxidata  (Clavaria),  519 


quietus  (Lactarius), 

rachodes  (Lepiota), 

var.  puellaris, 
radicans  (Boletus), 
radicata  (Collybia), 

var.  furfuracea, 

var.  pusilla, 
radicosus  (Boletus), 
RADULUM, 
Ravenelii  (Amanita), 
Ravenelii  (Boletus), 
Ravenelii  (Phallus), 
recutita  (Amanita), 
repanda  (Peziza), 


173 

35 

36 
435 

XXIX,  113 
114 
114 
473 
493 

18 

422 

CLVIII,  573 

12 
557 


repandum  (Hydnum),       C XXXII,  497 
resplendens  (Tricholoma),  63 

reticulatus  (Pluteolus),      LXXVI,  282 
retipes  (Boletus),  441 

retirugis  (Panaeolus),  384 

rhodopolium  (Entoloma),  253 

rhodoxanthus  (Gomphidius), 

XCVII,  394 

rimosellus  (Boletus),  442 

rimulatum  ( Lycoperdon ),CLXVII,  597 
rivulosa  (Clitocybe),  90 

robusta  (Armillaria),  52 

var.  minor,  53 

robusta  (Clitocybe),  93 

Rodmani  (Agaricus),  336 

roseipes  (Russula),  XLIV,  209 

rosellus  (Cantharellus),     XLVIII,  217 
Roxanae  (Boletus),  431 

var.  auricolor,  431 

rubellus  (Merulius),  490 

rubescens  (Amanita),       IX,  XIII,     21 
rubeus  (Boletus),  432 

rubiginosus  (Boletus),  443 

rubinellus  (Boletus),  419 

rubra  (Russula),  196 

rubro-flava  (Calvatia),  587 

rubropunctus  (Boletus),       CXVII,  429 
rufescens  (Hydnum),  497 

rufus  (Lactarius),  175 

rugosa  (Clavaria),  519 

rugosa  (Mycena),  127 

rugulosa  (Lepiota),  51 

rugulosa  (Russula),  CXCVIII,  720 

Russelli  (Boletus),  CXVIII,  436 

RUSSULA,  V,  XLV,  185 

Russula  (Tricholoma),          XVIII,     65 
russuloides  (Amanita),  18 


rutilans  (Tricholoma), 

saccata  (Calvatia), 
salignus  (Pleurotus), 
salmonicolor  (Boletus), 
sanguinea  (Russula), 
sanguineus  (Cortinarius), 


PAGE 
XXI,  69 

587 
143 
409 
191 
321 


sapidus  (Pleurotus),  XXXVI,  141 

saponaceum  (Tricholoma),  74 

Satanus  (Boletus),  454 

scaber  (Boletus),  CXXI,  461 

var.  alutaceus,  462 

var.  areolatus,  CXVIII,  463 

var.  aurantiacus,  462 

var.  fuligineus,  462 

var.  fuscus,  462 

var.  gracilipes,  463 

var.  mutabilis,  463 

var.  niveus,  462 

var.  olivaceus,  462 

var.  testaceus,  462 

scabrosum  (Hydnum),         CXXXI,  496 

SCHIZOPHYLLUM,  V,  LVH,  238 

SCLERODERMA,  615 

scorodonius  (Marasmius),  226 

sebaceus  (Cortinarius),  308 

sejunctum  (Tricholoma),  63 

semiglobata  (Stropharia),  351 

semilanatus  (Coprinus),  382 

semilanceata  (Psilocybe),  366 

var.  cserulescens,  366 

semilibera  (Morchella),   CXLVIII,  545 

semi-orbicularis  (Naucoria), 

LXXVIII,  297 

separans  (Boletus),  CXVIII,  445 

separata  (Anellaria),  CIX,  388 

septentrionale  (Hydnum),  503 

serotinus  (Boletus),  409 

serotinus  (Pleurotus),  145 

Seymourianus  (Clitopilus),  262 

sigillata  (Calvatia),  585 

silvaticus  (Agaricus),  334 

silvaticus  (Coprinus),  OF/7,  381 

silvicola  (Agaricus),  XCIII,  343 

var.  abruptus,  343 

SIMBLUM,  571 

sinuaturn  (Entoloma),  LXII,  251 

sinuosus  (Craterellus),  510 

var.  crispus,  CXXXVI.  510 

sinuosus.  (Polyporus),  489 

S1STOTREMA,  493 

soboliferus  (Coprinus),  371 

socialis  (Clitocybe),  89 

SOL.ENIA,  507 

solid ipes  (Panseolus),  CHI,  385 

solitaria  (Amanita),  19 

SOPP1TTIELLA,  506 

sordida  (Russula),  XLIV,  190 

sordidus  (Boletus),  461 

spadicea  (Psilocybe),  XCIX,  365 


747 


Index  to  Genera,  Species  and  Illustrations 


PAGE 

spadicea   (Psilocybe),  XCIX,  365 

var.  hygrophilus,  366 

var.  polycephalus,  366 

spadiceus  (Boletus),  434 

SPARASSIS,  511,  512 

SPATHULARIA,  535,  549 

spathulatus  (Pleurotus),  145 

speciosa  (Volvaria),  242 

speciosus  (Boletus),  439 

spectabilis  (Boletus),  CXV,  408 

sphserosporus  (Boletus),  411 

sphaerosporus  (Hygrophorus),  155 

spinosa  (Terfezia),  566 

spinulifera  (Collybia),  122 

spinulosa  (Clavaria),  521 

spinulosum   ( Mycenastrum ) , 

CLXXX,  613 
spissa  (Amanita), 

splendens  (Clitocybe),  102 

spongiosipes  (Hydnum),  500 

spreta  (Amanita),  VI,     11 

squamosum  (Hydnum),  496 

squamosus  (Polyporus),    C XXVII,  480 
squamulosus  (Cortinarius), 

LXXXII,  LXXXVI,  318 
squarrosa  (Pholiota), 

LXXIa,  LXXIII,  273 
squarrosoides  (Pholiota),  274 

stercoraria  (Stropharia),  350 

STEREUM,  507 

sterquillnus  (Coprinus),  372 

stipticus  (Panus),  236 

strangulata  (Amanitopsis),          X,     30 

(A.  Cecilise) 

strisepes  (Boletus),  431 

striapes  JNaucoria),       LXXVIIIa,  296 
stricta  '( Clavaria), 

var.  fumida,  522 

strigosus  (Panus),  LV,  LVa,  234 

strobilaceus  (Strobilomyces), 

CXXIV,  475 

strobiliformis  (Amanita),  IX,     19 

STROBILOMYCES,  397,  475 

STROPHARIA,  XCII,  348 

subacutum  (Tricholoma), 

CLXXXIX,  712 

subaquilum  (Hypholoma),  364 

subaureus  (Boletus),  CXIV,  414 

subdepallens  (Russula),  192 

subdulcrs  (Lactarius),  XLIII,  182 

var.  cinnamomeus,  182 

var.  rufus,  182 

var.  badius,  182 

subglabripes  (Boletus),  428 

subincarnatum  ( Lycoperdon ) , 

CLXXIII,  604 

subinvoluta  (Clitocybe),  102 

sublateritium  (Hypholoma), 

XOVII,  359 
var.  squamosum,  359 


PAGE 

subluteus  (Boletus),               CXVa,  412 
submarginalis  (Cortinarius), 

CCVI,  727 

subpalmatus  (Pleurotus),  139 

subpulverulentum  (Tricholoma),  82 
subpurpureus  ( Lactarius ) , 

CXCV,  172,  717 

subrufescens  (Agaricus),  344 

subsanguineus  (Boletus),       CXVI,  420 

subsquamosum  (Hydnum),  496 

subsquarrosa  (Pholiota),     LXXIa,  275 

subtilis  (Clavaria),  519 

subtomentosus  (Boletus),  433 

subvelutipes  (Boletus),  457 

subvilis  (Clitopilus),  260 

subzonalis  (Clitocybe),  101 

sulcata  (Helvella),  537 

var.  minor,  537 

Sullivantii  (Boletus),  458 

sulphureum  (Tricholoma),  74 
sulphureus  ( Polyporus ) , 

CXXV,  CXXIXa,  485 

tabacinus  (Boletus),  443 

tabularis  (Agaricus),  347 

Taylori  (Volvaria),  241 

tenera  (Galera),                   LXXIX,  300 

var.  pilosella,  300 

var.  obscurior,  300 

tenuiculus  (Boletus),  426 

terreum  (Tricholoma), 

XVIII,  XXII,  71 

var.  fragrans,  71 

terriferum  (Tricholoma),  64 

tessulatus  (Pleurotus),  139 

tetragona  (Clavaria),  518 

theiogalus  (Lactarius),  174 

THELEPHORA,  506 

tigrinum  (Tricholoma),  77 

tigrinus  (Lentinus),                  LIU,  229 

togularis  (Pholiota),  271 

tomentosus  (Coprinus),  377 

torminosus  (Lactarius),  163 

tortilis  (Clitocybe),  108 

torulosus  (Panus),                      LIV,  233 

TRAMETES,  397 

transmutans   (Tricholoma),  63 

TREMELLA,                                    527,  529 

TREMELLODON,                           527,  533 

tremellosus  (Merulius),  490 

TRIffHOLOMA,                       V,  XIX,  59 

TROGIA,                                 V,  LVII,  237 

trullisata  (Clitocybe),  106 

truncicola  (Clitocybe),  94 

TUBARIA,                LXXI,  LXXVII,  293 

TUBERACE^E,  565 

tumulosa  (Clitocybe),  98 

turbinatus  (Cortinarius),  312 

turmalis  (Cortinarius),     LXXXII,  309 

Turneri  (Lycoperdon),        CLXXI,  602 


748 


Index  to  Genera,  Spades  ard  Illustrations 


turpis  (Lactarius), 

TYLOSTOMA, 

TYPHULA, 

ulmarius  (Pleurotus), 

var.  acericola, 

var.  populicola, 
ULOCOLLA, 
umbellatus  ( Polyporus ) , 
umbellifera  (Omphalia), 
umbonatus  vCantharellus) 
umbrosus  (Pluteus), 
Underwoodii  (Boletus), 
Underwoodii  (Clitopilus) 
Underwoodii  (Lentinus) 
unicisa  (Peziza), 
unicolor  (Boletus), 
unifactum  (Tricholoma) 
unitinctus  (Clitopilus ) , 

var.  albidus, 
urens  (Marasmius), 
ustale  (Tricholoma), 

vaccinum  ( Tricholoma ) , 
vaginata  (Amanitopsis), 

var.  livida, 

var.  fulva, 

variabilis  (Agaricus), 
variata  (Russula), 
variegatus  (Boletus), 
variipes  (Boletus), 

var.  albipes, 

var.  pallidipes, 

var.  tenuipes, 
varius  (Cortinarius), 
velatum  (Lycoperdon), 
vellereum  (Hydnum), 
vellereus  (Lactarius), 
velosa  (Amanitopsis), 
velutinus  ( Hypholoma ) , 

var.  leiocephalus, 
velutipes  (Collybia), 
venosa  (Peziza), 
vermicularis  ( Clavaria ) , 
vermiculosus  (Boletus), 


PAGE 

PAGE 

163 

var.  Spraguei,                                   457 

CLXI,  578,  582 

verna  (Amanita),                                     9 

511 

VERPA,                                           535,  539 

verrucosum  (Scleroderma), 

138 

CCXVI,  616,  737 

138 

versipellis  (Boletus),                          461 

138 

vesca  (Russula),                                   198 

526 

vesiculosa  t.  Peziza),                             558 

482 

var.  cerea,                                           558 

1,    XXXIV,  133 

vilescens  (Clitocybe),                            88 

us),                 217 

violaceus  (Cortinarius),   LXXXII,  314 

246 

virescens  (Amanita),                              8 

459 

virescens  (Russula),               XLIV,  194 

3),                   260 

virescens  (Tricholoma),                       78 

),                     231 

Virgineus  (Coprinus),                         380 

556 

virgineus  (Hygrophorus), 

418 

XXXVII,  ,153 

),         CXC,  713 

viridis  (Amanita),                                   8 

257 

virosa  (Amanita),                                    6 

257 

viscidipes  (Armillaria),                        53 

223 

viscidus  (Gomphidius),           CXII,  394 

62 

vitellina  (Mitrula),                      CL,  548 

vitellina  (Russula),                             212 

70 

Vittadini  (Lepiota),                               44 

X,     28 

vittaeformis  (Galera),                          301 

X,     29 

volemi  (Hypomyces),                          564 

29 

volemus  (Lactarius),                 XLI,  180 

XCIII,  346 

var.  subrugosus,                                180 

CXCIX,  721 

volvacea  (Volvaria),                   LX,  240 

430 

VOLVARIA,                             LVIIIa,  239 

446 

volvata  (Amanitopsis),                         31 

447 

var.  elongata,               CLXXXVII,  710 

447 

vulgare  (Scleroderma),    CLXXXI,  615 

447 

309 

Woodianus  (Clitopilus),                     260 

597 

Wrightii  (Lycoperdon),                      604 

499 

var.  typicum,                                    605 

169 

var.  separans,                  CLXXIV,  605 

29 

var.  atropunctum,                             605 

360 

Wynnei  (Marasmius),        XXXIII,  225 

360 

XXXI,  118 

XEROTUS,                               V,  LVI,  237 

554 

xylogenus  (Agaricus),                         339 

524 

456 

zonatam  (Hydnum),                           498 

749 


RETURN  TO  the  circulation  desk  of  any 
University  of  California  Library 

or  to  the 

NORTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 
Bldg.  400,  Richmond  Field  Station 
University  of  California 
Richmond,  CA  94804-4698 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 

•  2-month  loans  may  be  renewed  by  calling 
(510)642-6753 

•  1-year  loans  may  be  recharged  by  bringing 
books  to  NRLF 

•  Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  made 
4  days  prior  to  due  date 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 
02  2003 


DD20  15M  4-02 


LIBRARY,  BRANCH  OF  THE  COLLEGE  OF  AGRICULTURE 


