Mfii 


I 


FROM  THE 

PERSONAL  LIBRARY  OF 

JAMES  BUELL  MUNN 

1890-  1967 

BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


BERLIN:  ASHER  &  CO.,  5,  TNTER  DEN  LINDEN. 

NEW  YORK:  C.  SCRIBNER  &  CO.;  LEYPOLDT  &  HOLT. 

PHILADELPHIA :    J.  B.  LIPPINCOTT  &  CO. 


(^ift^entlt-OJ^nfurii  (|00lieri|-§00lts. 


HAELEIAN  MS.  279  (ab.  1430),  &  HAEL.  MS.  4016  (ab.  1450), 


EXTEACTS     FEOM     ASHMOLE     MS.     1429, 
LAUD   MS.   553,   &  DOUCE   MS.   55. 


EDITED   BY 

THOMAS   AUSTIN 


LONDON: 

PUBLISHED      FOR     THE     EAELY     ENGLISH     TEXT      SOCIETY 
BY  2^.  TRtJBNEK  &  CO.,  57  and  59  LUDGATE  HILL,  E.G. 

1888. 


FOREWORDS. 


The  Ancient  Cookeries  edited  in  this  volume  have  been  copied  from 
Hcarleian  MSS.  279  and  4016,  in  the  British  Museum.  The  first 
MS.  was  copied,  and  partly  prepared  for  the  press,  by  the  late  Mr. 
Faulke  "Watling,  of  the  University  of  Oxford,  but  his  untimely 
death  prevented  his  seeing  it  through  the  Press.  This  MS.  is 
divided  into  three  Parts,  the  first,  headed  Kalendare  de  Potages  di/iiers, 
containing  153  recipes  :  the  second  Part,  Kalendare  de  Leche  Metijs, 
has  64  recipes,  and  the  third  Part,  Dyuerse  haJce  metis,  41  recipes. 
This  MS.,  besides  the  Cookery,  contains  the  Bills  of  Fare  of  several 
Banquets  which  are  noticed  more  fully  below.  The  date  of  this  MS. 
is  about  1430  or  1440,  and  has  been  given  a  little  too  early  on  pages 
1  and  5.  This  has  been  collated  with  Ashmole  MS.  1439,  in  the 
Bodleian,  noted  as  A.  in  the  text.  For  the  second  MS.  it  was  origi- 
nally intended  to  publish  Douce  MS.  55,  in  the  Bodleian  Library, 
but  this  was  found  imperfect,  and  was  replaced  by  Harleian  MS. 
4016.  They  are  similar  books,  and  contain  the  same  recipes  in 
nearly  the  same  words,  the  latter  having  a  few  that  are  not  in  the 
former,  and  vice  versa.  The  Harleian  Cookery  has  182  Recipes, 
while  the  Douce  Cookery  has  184.  The  two  have  been  collated,  and 
are  of  about  the  same  date,  c.  1450.  Two  Banquets  are  prefixed  to 
this  MS.,  which  are  also  more  fully  noticed  below.  Several  of  the 
recipes  of  the  Douce  MS.  are  appended  at  page  115. 

Some  recipes  for  sauces,  taken  from  Ashmole  MS.  1439,  are  given 
at  page  108.  This  MS.  is  about  the  same  date  as  Harleian  MS.  279, 
and  has  the  same  Feasts  added,  though  some  of  the  leaves  are  missing. 
These  recipes  are  followed  by  others  taken  from  two  odd  leaves  in 
Laud  MS.  553,  in  the  Bodleian  Library;  see  page  112. 

The  first  English  Cookery  Book  seems  to  be  that  of  Neckam,  in 


Vm  FOREWORDS. 

the  twelfth  century,  but  the  Forme  of  Cunj  is  the  oldest  practical 
work.  This  was  compiled  by  the  Chief  Master  Cooks  of  Richard  II., 
and  contains  196  recipes.  The  MS.  that  we  possess  was  presented 
to  Queen  Elizabeth  by  Lord  Stafford,  and  afterwards  belonged  to 
the  Earl  of  Oxford,  being  purchased  at  his  sale  ;  it  is  now  in  the 
British  Museum.  This  volume,  with  the  Cookeries  in  Warner, 
Antiquitates  Ciilinarm  (1791),  the  Cookery  published  by  Mrs.  Napier 
in  1882,  known  as  the  Noble  Boke  of  Cookrij,  and  Liber  Gitre  Cocoriim, 
have  been  used  for  purposes  of  reference,  and  elucidation  of  the 
recipes  in  the  following  MSS.  The  Cookery  edited  by  Mrs.  Napier 
had  however,  though  then  unknown,  been  previously  edited  by 
Pynson,  as  early  as  1500,  and  again  by  John  Byddell  in  1650. 

Much  of  the  scientific  Cookery  was  of  course  French,  and,  as  will 
be  seen  in  the  following  Recipes,  the  French  titles  got  singularly 
perverted,  and  in  some  cases  are  extremely  hard  to  recognise.  For 
instance,  who  at  first  sight  would  recognise  Lait  under  Let,  Froide  as 
Fryil,  or  Sauce  in  Sauke  ?  Again  Herbelettes  hecomes  Arbo/etti/s,  and 
Aigredoux  or  Aigredouce,  Egredouncye.  The  earliest  Cookery  Books 
that  may  be  called  English  only  date  from  the  latter  half  of  the 
seventeenth  century. 

Many  of  the  Recipes  that  are  given  here  would  astonish  a  modern 
Cook.  Our  forefathers,  possibly  from  having  stronger  stomachs, 
fortified  by  outdoor  life,  evidentl}'  liked  their  dishes  strongly  seasoned 
and  piquant,  as  the  Cinnamon  Soup  on  p.  59  shews.  Pepper,  Ginger, 
Cloves,  Garlic,  Cinnamon,  Galingale,  Yinegar,  Verjuice,  and  Wine, 
appear  constantly  in  dishes  W'here  we  should  little  expect  them  ;  and 
even  Ale  was  frequently  used  in  Cookery.  Wine  is  used  in  the 
recipe  for  Roant  Partridge,  on  p.  78,  and  also,  as  seems  more  natural 
to  us,  in  the  Partridge  Stews  on  pages  9  and  78  :  it  is  also  used  for ' 
Braicn  in  Poivrade  on  p.  71.  Ale  is  introduced  in  the  Boures  on 
p.  8,  in  the  Sops  Cliamberlain  on  p.  11,  and  in  the  Mortrews  de  Chair 
on  p.  71,  and  is  even  used  in  the  Charlette  on  p.  17,  though  Milk 
is  also  one  of  the  ingredients  :  both  Ale  and  Wine  appear  in  the 
Maumenny  Royal,  on  j).  22.     Ale  is  also  used  with  the  Tench  in  Bruet 


FOREWORDS.  IX 

on  p.  23,  in  the  WJielhs  and  Oysters  in  Brnef,  on  tlie  same  page,  and 
in  fact  seems  to  be  a  characteristic  of  the  Bruets,  as  most  of  these 
dishes  have  it  as  an  ingredient.  Ale  was  also  mingled  with  the 
water  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled :  note  the  Boiled  Pihe  on  page 
101,  the  Plaice  on  page  103,  and  the  Barbel,  p.  104.  Stale  Ale  is 
used  for  the  Oil  Sops  on  page  12,  possibly  in  place  of  Vinegar. 
Vinegar  is  used  in  the  Brawn  on  pages  11  and  12,  in  the  Humbles  of 
Venison  on  pages  10  and  70,  and  in  the  Venison  in  broth  on  p.  70  : 
Vinegar  or  Verjuice  is  added  to  the  Steiced  Mutton  on  page  72, 
Verjuice  to  the  Meat  Custard  or  Pie,  on  p.  74,  and  to  the  Trijje  on 
pages  7  and  18.  Here  our  ancestors  shewed  their  wisdom,  as  the 
acid  served  as  a  corrective  to  the  richness  of  the  dishes.  Sugar  on 
the  other  hand  is  also  used  with  Brawn,  see  the  Blamiche  Brawn  on 
p.  34,  and  the  Fried  Brawn  on  p.  43,  and  was  quite  lately  taken  with 
it  at  St.  John's  College,  Oxford. 

Almond  milk  was  also  a  constant  ingredient  of  the  dishes :  see  the 
Brawn  in  Comfit  on  page  71,  and  the  Sturmye  on  page  26  :  it  was 
also  used  with  fish,  as  in  the  Viande  de  Cyprus  in  Lent,  on  page  28. 
Both  Sugar  and  Salt  are  used  in  the  Quinade  on  page  27,  and  in  the 
Mortrews  of  Pork  on  page  28,  Marrow  was  then  much  more  used 
than  at  present :  note  the  300  marrowbones  on  page  67. 

Meats  that  we  do  not  eat  at  the  present  day,  or  eat  but  seldom, 
also  appear  in  the  Banquets  of  our  ancestors,  as  Whale,  Porpoise, 
Seal,  Swan,  Crane,  Heron,  and  Peacock  ;  while  even  the  fishy  Gull 
was  eaten.  One  would  imagine  that  Sturgeon  was  then  more 
plentiful,  to  judge  by  the  recipes  for  its  cookery.  Stockfish  ^  was 
of  course  much  more  in  vogue,  from  the  difiiculty  of  obtaining 
fresh  fish.  "We  may  suppose  that  the  Pudding  of  Capon  Neck  on 
page  41,  and  the  Pudding  of  Swan  Neck  on  page  61,  were  dainties. 
It  would  appear,  from  page  67,  that  Oxen  were  salted  whole, 
while,  to  descend  to  the  other  end  of  the  scale,  small  birds  were 
eaten,  as  they  still  are  in  France  (see  the  recipe  on  page  9,  and 
the  Royal  Banquet  on  page  58).  Our  flaming  Christmas  Pudding 
is   recalled   by   the    Viande  Ardente  in  the   Banquet  on  page  61. 

1  See  Glossary. 


X  FOREWORDS. 

Some  of  the  designs,  or  Subtleties,  exposed  on  the  Tables,  as 
ornament,  were  of  rather  an  ambitious  character  ;  far  more  so  than 
most  of  those  mentioned  on  pages  57,  58,  etc.  These  were  devices 
in  sugar  and  paste,  and  apj)arently  in  jelly,  and  were,  at  any  rate  at 
times,  made  to  be  eaten.  Those  displayed  at  the  Enthronement  of 
Abp.  Warham  in  1505,  must  have  been  of  considerable  size,  as 
their  description  shews.  They  represented  silvan  and  hunting 
scenes,  and  one  displayed  the  interior  of  an  Abbey  Church  with  its 
various  altars.  In  other  cases  such  devices  as  a  ship,  fully  armed 
with  her  ordnance,  with  the  Barons  of  the  Cinque  Ports  on  board, 
or  buildings  with  vanes  and  towers  are  exhibited.  A  great  Custard, 
j)lanted,  is  displayed  in  a  banquet  given  by  Leland  in  his  Collectanea. 
The  dishes  were  also  gilt  at  times,  for  j)urpose  of  display,  as  a  Leche 
Lombard  in  the  same  volume ;  a  Peacock  also  is  mentioned  with 
a  gilt  nib.  The  Subtleties  mentioned  in  this  volume  are  of  a  much 
more  modest  character,  representing  simply  an  Agnus  Dei,  an  Eagle, 
a  Doctor  of  Law,  etc. ;  though  those  at  the  Stalling  of  John  Stafford, 
on  page  68,  are  more  complicated.  They  seem  both  to  have  preceded 
the  various  courses,  and  also  to  have  closed  them,  the  first  being 
called  Warners,  as  giving  warning  of  the  entry  of  a  fresh  service. 

We  will  now  turn  to  the  Banquets,  whose  Bills  of  Fare  the 
Cookeries  give  us.  The  .first  of  them  [p.  57],  both  in  place  and 
importance,  is  that  given  at  the  Coronation  of  Henry  the  Fourth, 
and  it  has  especial  interest  in  the  fact  that  a  description  of  it  is 
in  the  Chronicles  of  Froissart.  Henry  succeeded  the  dethroned 
Richard  II.  in  1399,  as  Froissart  says,  with  the  approval  of  the 
People  of  England  ;  Pichard  having  previously  personally  surrendered 
his  Crown  to  him.  Stow  says  that  Henry  was  chosen  at  Westminster 
Hall,  at  a  Parliament  there.  The  Archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
Thomas  Arundel,  having  first  preached  a  Latin  sermon,  on  the  text, 
Hahuit  Jacob  benedictionem  a  patre  suo,  a  Doctor  of  Law  stood  up, 
and  read  an  Instrument  which  averred  that  Richard  by  his  own 
confession  was  unworthy  to  reign,  and  would  resign  the  Crown  to 
a  competent  person.     This  having  been  read,  the  Archbishop  advised 


FOREWORDS.  XI 

them  to  proceed  to  tlie  election  of  a  new  king,  and  on  a  vote  being 
taken,  the  whole  assembly  was  in  Henry's  favour ;  Eichard  not 
having  four  votes  for  him.  Henry  then  accepted  the  Crown,  but 
Stow  says  that  he  acquired  the  throne  more  by  force  than  by  lawful 
succession  or  election. 

Henry  left  the  Tower  of  London,  where  he  was  then  residing,  on 
Sunday  the  12th  of  October,  1399,  having  previously  made  forty-six 
new  Knights  of  the  Bath  :  he  was  dressed  in  a  jacket  after  the 
German  mode.  He  went  to  Westminster  to  sleep,  and  at  night 
bathed,  after  the  fashion  of  chivalry;  next  morning,  Monday  the 
13th,  and  St.  Edward's  day,  he  confessed  himself  and  heard  three 
Masses,  preparatory  to  his  Coronation.  The  Prelates  and  Clergy 
then  came  in  procession  from  the  Abbey,  and  escorted  him  thither, 
the  return  procession  entering  the  sacred  place  at  about  nine  o'clock 
in  the  morning.  The  Lord  Mayor  with  chosen  Citizens  of  London, 
were  in  the  Procession,  clothed  alike  in  red.  Cloth  was  laid  down 
for  the  king's  passage,  and  the  Abbey  was  also  laid  with  cloth. 
Henry  w^as  under  a  Canopy  of  blue  silk,  according  to  Froissart, 
but  Holinshed  makes  it  of  Cloth  of  Gold,  with  a  golden  bell  jingling 
at  each  corner;  the  Canopy  was  borne,  says  Holinshed,  by  sixteen 
Barons  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  four  to  each  Staff,  though  Froissart 
again  differs,  noting  that  it  was  borne  by  only  four  Burgesses,  Dover 
ones.  Holinshed  is  more  likely  right.  We  may  suppose  that  these 
were  the  actual  bearers  of  the  Canopy :  Stow,  however,  tells  us  that 
there  were  four  other,  apparently  honorary  bearers — the  Dukes  of 
York,  Surrey,  Aumarle,  and  the  Earl  of  Gloucester.  The  Burgesses 
had  as  fees  Canopy,  bells,  and  staves. 

Preparatory  to  the  Coronation  and  Banquet,  Officials  had  been 
appointed  on  October  4th.  The  Earl  of  Northumberland  was  High 
Constable,  and  as  holding  the  Isle  of  Man,  bore  on  the  king's  left  at 
the  Coronation  a  naked  sword,  called  Lancaster's  Sword,  with  which 
Henry  was  girt  when  crowned ;  the  Earl  of  Somerset  carried  a 
sword  before  the  king,  and  Thomas  Beauchamp,  Earl  of  Warwick, 
bore  a  third  sword,  by  inherited  right,  and  was  also  Pantler  :   the 


XU  FOREWORDS. 

Earl  of  Westmoreland  was  Marshal.  Sir  Thomas  Erpingham  was 
Lord  Chamberlain,  and  furnished  the  monarch  with  water  for  his 
hands,  both  before  and  after  the  Banquet,  having  as  fee  the  Basin, 
Ewer,  Towels,  etc.  The  Earl  of  Somerset  was  Carver,  in  right  of 
his  Earldom  of  Lincoln,  and  Sir  Wm.  Argentine,  by  reason  of  his 
tenure  of  the  Manor  of  Wilmundale,  or  Wymondley,  Herts,  served 
the  king  with  the  first  cup  of  drink  at  dinner,  and  received  the 
silver-gilt  Cup  as  his  fee.  Thomas,  Earl  of  Arundel,  was  chief 
Butler,  and  had  the  royal  goblet  as  gift ;  Citizens  of  London, 
chosen  by  the  City,  served  in  the  Hall  as  attendants  while  Henry 
banqueted.  Lord  Latimer  was  Almoner  for  the  day,  the  silver 
money  being  in  a  fine  linen  cloth ;  whilst  William  le  Yenour  had 
the  honour  of  making  wafers  for  the  king:  Edmond  Chambers  was 
larderer,  and  Lord  Grey  of  Buthjoi  was  Naperer  (see  post). 

Henry  took  his  seat  on  a  throne  that  stood  on  a  scaffold  covered 
with  crimson  cloth,  and  was  then  proclaimed  king  from  the  four 
corners  of  it  by  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  who  asked  the  consent 
of  the  people:  his  words  were  greeted  with  shouts  of  "Aye!" 
Henry  was  then  stripped  naked  to  his  shirt  previous  to  anointing, 
and  was  anointed  in  six  places,  as  Froissart  says,  the  head,  breast, 
shoulders,  back,  and  hands :  he  was  afterwards  dressed  in  deacon's 
clothes,  with  shoes  of  crimson  velvet,  and  wore  spurs  without  rowels. 
The  Sword  of  Justice  was  next  drawn  and  blessed,  and  given  to  the 
King,  who  returned  it  to  the  scabbard  :  it  was  then  girt  about  him 
by  the  Prelate,  by  whom  the  Crown  of  St.  Edward  was  also  placed 
on  his  head.  Lord  Furnivall,  as  holding  the  Manor  of  Farnham, 
gave  the  King  his  right-hand  glove,  and  supported  his  arm  while  he 
held  the  sceptre.  Henry  quitted  the  Abbey  when  Mass  was  over 
and  returned  to  Westminster  Hall,  where  the  Banquet  was  given. 

At  the  Banquet  the  King  sat  at  the  first  table,  and  at  the  Royal 
board  were  the  two  Archbishops  and  seventeen  Bishops  :  at  the 
bottom  of  the  table  was  the  Earl  of  Westmoreland  with  the  Sceptre. 
The  King  was  served  by  the  Prince  of  Wales,  who  carried  the  Sword 
of  Mercy,  and  on  the  ojDposite  side  by  the  Constable,  bearing  the 


FOREWORDS.  XlU 

Sword  of  Justice.  At  the  second  table  sat  the  five  great  Peers  of 
England,  probably  the  Dukes  of  Lancaster,  York,  Aumarle,  Surrey,^ 
and  Exeter  :  at  the  third  table  were  the  principal  Citizens  of  London, 
apparently  the  Lord  Mayor  and  Aldermen,  whose  table  was  at  the 
left  of  the  Royal  table.  The  Barons  of  the  Cinque  Ports  sat  at 
a  table  on  the  right  of  the  King :  at  another  table  sat  the  newly- 
created  Knights ;  while  all  Knights  and  Squires  of  Honour  sat 
at  a  sixth. 

When  the  Feast  was  half  over,  the  Champion,  Sir  Thos.  Dymock, 
entered  the  Hall  in  full  armour,  mounted  on  a  horse  barded  with 
crimson  housings.  He  was  equipped  for  Wager  of  Battle,  and  pre- 
ceded by  another  Knight,  bearing  his  lance,  and  himself  carried  a 
drawn  sword,  and  had  by  his  side  a  naked  dagger.  The  Champion 
presented  a  paper  to  the  King,  which  affirmed  that  he  was  ready  to 
offer  combat  to  any  Knight  or  Gentleman  who  dared  maintain  that 
Henry  was  not  a  lawful  sovereign.  By  the  King's  orders  Heralds 
proclaimed  this  Challenge  in  six  different  parts  of  the  Hall  and 
City,  without  gainsaying.  The  Champion  received  as  his  fee  one 
of  the  best  horses  in  the  Royal  Stable,  with  saddle  and  trappings, 
and  one  of  the  best  suits  of  armour.  When  Henry  had  dined,  and 
partaken  of  wine  and  spices,  he  withdrew  to  his  private  apartments, 
whither  the  Lord  Mayor  brought  him  a  Cup  of  gold  filled  with 
wine,  taking  it  again  as  his  fee,  together  with  a  second  cup  that  had 
contained  water  to  allay  the  wine. 

Next  follows,  on  page  58,  the  Banquet  given  at  the  King's  second 
marriage,  in  1404.  Henry,  when  Earl  of  Derby,  had  married  Mary, 
the  younger  daughter  and  coheiress  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun,  Earl 
of  Hereford  and  Northampton,  who  died  in  1394.  His  second  wife, 
in  whose  honour  the  feast  was  given,  was  Joan  of  Navarre,  widow 
of  John  de  Montfort,  Duke  of  Brittany.  She  landed  a  few  days 
previously  at  Falmouth,  and  was  married  in  Winchester  Cathedral 
on  the  7th  of  February :  the  Banquet  was  possibly  in  the  Hall  of 

1  Thomas  Holand,  Duke  of  Surrey,  is  said  to  have  been  deprived  of  his  Dukedom  on 
Oct.  6th  1399,  and  was  soon  afterwards  beheaded.     Stow  however  writes  as  above. 


XIV  FOREWORDS. 

the  Castle,  which  still  remains.      She  was  crowned  at  "Westminster 
on  the  28th  of  the  same  month,  and  survived  her  husband. 

Fabyan's  Chronicle  gives  an  account  of  the  Feast  at  the 
Coronation  of  the  Queen  of  Henry  Y.,  which  took  place  on  Feb.  24th, 
1420,  being  St.  Matthew's  Day ;  for  which  reason  the  Bill  of  Fare 
was  entirely  Fish,  with  the  exception  of  Brawn  with  Mustard  in  the 
first  Course.  The  Queen,  at  table,  had  the  Archbishoj)  of  Canterbury 
on  her  right,  and  Henry  Cardinal  of  "Winchester  on  her  left.  The 
Duke  of  Gloucester  had  charge  of  the  Banquet,  and  stood  bareheaded 
before  the  Queen,  while  Sir  Eichard  Neville  was  Carver.  The 
brother  of  the  Earl  of  Suffolk  was  cup-bearer.  Sir  John  Stewart, 
Sew^er,  and  Lord  Clifford,  Panterer ;  and  Lord  Grey  of  Ruthyn  was 
again  Naperer.  The  Barons  of  the  Cinque  Ports  were  at  the  head 
of  the  table  on  the  right  of  the  Queen,  towards  St.  Stephen's  Chapel, 
and  the  Bowchiers  of  the  Chancery  (?  the  Proctors)  were  below 
them  at  the  same  table  :  at  a  table  on  the  Queen's  left  sat  the 
Lord  Mayor  and  Aldermen  of  London.  The  Bishops  were  at  the 
head  of  the  table  next  to  that  at  which  the  Barons  of  the  Cinque 
Ports  sat,  and  the  Ladies  had  a  table  next  to  the  Lord  Mayor's  table. 
The  Feast,  as  usual,  was  of  three  Courses,  which  were  of  the  same 
character.  "Whale  was  served  in  the  first  Course  :  in  the  second  was 
a  Leche  damask  with  the  king's  motto  flourished  on  it,  which  was 
Vne  saiiz  phis;  meaning  of  course  the  Queen.  In  the  third  Course 
was  Porpoise,  and  in  this  Course  was  a  subtlety  of  a  Tiger  looking 
into  a  Mirror,  with  a  man  on  horseback  fully  armed,  grasping 
a  Tiger's  whelp. 

Henry  the  Sixth's  Coronation  Feast  is  also  mentioned  in  Fabyan : 
like  the  others,  it  was  in  "Westminster  Hall,  and  was  also  of  three 
Courses.  In  the  first  Course  was  a  Viande  royale  planted  with 
lozenges  of  gold,  and  a  Custard  Rot/al  with  a  leopard  of  gold  sitting 
thereon.  There  was  a  Peacock  enhackled  in  the  second  Course :  in 
the  third  was  a  Baked  meat  like  a  shield,  quartered  red  and  white, 
and  set  with  gilt  lozenges  and  Borage  flowers.  There  was  a  subtlet}^ 
both   before   and   after   this  Course,  the   last  one  representing  the 


rO  REWORDS.  XV 

Yirgin  and  Child,  with  St.  George  and  St.  Denis  kneeling  on  either 
side,  and  presenting  to  the  Queen  a  figure  of  Henry  with  the 
following  ballad  in  his  hand  : — 

"  0  blessyd  Lady,  Cristes  moder  dere, 

"  And  thou,  seynt  George  !  that  called  art  her  knyght ; 

"  Holy  seynt  Denys,  0  marter  most  entei-e, 

"The  sixt  Henry  here  present  in  your  syght, 

"  Shedyth/  of  your  grace,  on  him  your  heuenly  lyght : 

"His  tender  youth  with  vertue  doth^  auaunce, 

"  Borne  by  discent,  and  by  tytle  of  ryght, 

"lastly  to  reygne  in  Englande  and  in  Fraunce." 

It  is  uncertain  who  the  Lord  de  la  Grey  was,  whose  Banquet 
follows  [p.  59]  :  if,  however,  the  feasts  are  given  in  chronological 
order,  the  date  can  be  assigned  within  a  given  jseriod.  Holinshed 
mentions  a  Lord  Reginald  Grey  of  Ruthyn  that  was  Naperer-  at 
Henry  the  Fourth's  Coronation,  on  account  of  a  manor  that  he 
held,  and  wlio  bore  the  great  spurs  before  Henry  IV.,  by  right  of 
inheritance  from  the  Earl  of  Pembroke.  He  is  also  mentioned 
above,  on  the  previous  page,  and  may  be  the  person  in  question. 

Next  follows  [p.  60]  the  Feast  of  Richard  Fleming,  Bishop  of 
Lincoln  from  1420  to  1431 :  he  was  Canon  of  York  when  preferred 
to  the  Bishopric.  As  BishoiD  he  exhumed  and  burnt  the  bones 
of  Wyclrffe,  in  accordance  with  the  sentence  of  the  Council  of 
Constance,  in  1425.  A  dinner  of  John  Chandler,  Bishop  of  Salisbury 
from  1417  to  1426,  follows  the  above  [p.  60],  and  was  given  at  his 
entrance  on  the  episcopate. 

Then  follows  [p.  61]  an  Entertainment  given  on  the  4th  of 
December,  1424,  on  the  occasion  of  the  funeral  of  Nicholas  Bubwith, 
Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells.  He  was  originally  Bishop  of  London, 
for  only  a  short  time,  and  was  transferred  to  Salisbury  in  1407,  and 
in  the  same  year  shifted  to  Bath  and  Wells.  He  was  present  at  the 
Council  of  Constance.  He  built  the  north  tower  and  a  chantry  in 
the  Cathedral  of  Wells,  he  also  founded  an  almshouse  at  Wells. 
1  Imperatives  :  make  advance,  in  second  case.  ^  He  provided  the  table-linen. 


XVI  FOREWORDS. 


It  will  be  noticed  with  regard  to  this  Dinner,  that  a  separate  fare 
of  Fish  was  provided  for  the  Clergy,  doubtless  on  account  of  the 
melancholy  occasion. 

On  page  62  is  a  festival  given  by  John  Stafford,  Bishop  of 
Bath  and  Wells,  on  the  occasion  of  induction  into  his  Episcopate, 
September  16th,  1425.  He  was  born  at  Hook  in  the  parish  of 
Abbotsbury,  Dorset,  close  to  the  Chesil  Bank,  and  was  descended 
from  a  collateral  branch  of  the  Stafford  family.  His  father  was 
Sir  Humphrey  Stafford,  Sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  and  his 
mother  was  Elizabeth  Dyrham,  relict  of  Sir  John  Maltravers.  He 
was  educated  at  Oxford,  and  first  practised  in  the  Ecclesiastical 
Courts,  afterwards  entei'ing  holy  orders.  He  became  Archdeacon  of 
Salisbury  in  1419,  and  was  made  Chancellor  of  England,  according 
to  Stow  about  the  12th  of  Henry  VI.,  1434,  according  to  Hook  in 
1421.  In  1422  he  was  Dean  of  St.  Martin's  Le  Grand  at  Charing 
Cross :  he  was  also  Keeper  of  the  Privy  Seal,  and  Lord  High 
Treasurer  to  Henry  YI.  He  got  the  Bishopric  of  Bath  and  "Wells, 
as  stated  above,  in  1425,  and  in  1443  was  translated  to  the  Arch- 
bishopric of  Canterbury,  on  the  nomination  of  Pope  Eugenius  TV., 
to  whom  he  had  been  recommended  by  Chichele,  his  predecessor. 
Ihe  Banquet  that  he  gave  on  being  made  Archbishop  is  at  page  68, 
and  he  gave  quite  a  different  Bill  of  Fare  on  that  occasion.  He 
officiated  at  the  marriage  of  Henry  VI.  with  Margaret  of  Anjou  in 
1445,  and  also  crowned  that  Queen.  He  was  a  Statesman,  and  was 
instrumental  in  the  disjaersion  of  Jack  Cade's  forces :  curiously 
enough  he  also  engaged  in  trade.  He  died  at  Maidstone,  May  25th, 
1452,  and  was  buried  at  Canterbury  in  the  Martyrdom. 

The  last  Feast  in  Harleian  MS.  279  [p.  63],  is  one  given  at  the 
wedding  of  the  Earl  of  Devonshire,  and  is  without  date.  Con- 
cerning the  Earl  in  question,  Mr.  Cokayne,  Norroy  King  at  Arms, 
has  been  kind  enough  to  supply  the  following  note,  through  Dr. 
Furnivall : — ■ 

"  Hugh  Courtenay,  Earl  of  Devon  (or  Devonshire),  was  born 
1389,  being  aged  30  when  he  succeeded  his  father  in  that  Earldom 


FOREWORDS.  XVU 

in  1419,  His  marriage,  with  Anne  Talbot,  was  before  1414,  and 
before  he  became  an  Earl.     He  died  1422. 

"  His  son  is  probably  the  Earl  you  want,  viz.  Thomas  Courtenay, 
Earl  of  Devon,  born  1414  (being  aged  8  in  1422),  who  became 
Earl  on  his  father's  death  in  1422.  He  married  Lady  Margaret 
Beaufort,  second  daughter  of  John,  Earl  of  Somerset,  probably  about 
1431,  when  he  would  be  but  17,  but  certainly  before  1432,  when 
their  son  Thomas,  (aged  26  at  his  father's  death  in  1458,)  was 
born.  Lady  Margaret's  eldest  brother  was  born  1401,  and  her  eldest 
sister  Joan,  Queen  of  Scotland,  was  married  in  1423,  so  that  she 
probably  was  quite  as  old  as,  if  not  older  than  her  husband." 

The  remaining  Festival  [p.  67]  is  that  given  to  Richard  the 
Second  by  the  Bishop  of  Durham,  at  Durham  House,  London,  on 
the  23rd  of  September,  1387.  The  Bishop  that  feasted  the  King 
was  John  Forham,  or  Fordham,  who  held  the  Bishopric  from  1381 
to  1388,  having  previously  occupied  the  See  of  Ely.  He  was  one 
of  Richard's  evil  counsellors,  and  held  the  Office  of  Lord  High 
Treasurer,  but  was  discharged  of  it  in  1386.  He  was  among  the 
Lords  that  rebelled  against  the  King  in  1388,  but  was  not 
imprisoned,  though  in  that  year  he  was  deprived  of  his  See,  and 
permitted  to  retire  to  his  old  Bishopric,  which  was  of  far  less 
dignity. 

The  Editor  must  add,  that  he  has  to  thank  Dr.  Furnivall  for 
most  kindly  collating  the  text  with  that  of  both  the  MSS.,  and 
he  has  also  to  thank  him  for  some  hints  and  information.  He 
has,  besides,  to  thank  the  Rev.  A.  L.  Mayhew  for  criticizing 
the  glossary,  and  for  furnishing  him  with  some  old  French 
derivations,  etc. 

Oxford,  Nov.  1888. 


Xviii  READINGS    OF    ASHMOLE    MS.    1439. 

The  Ashmole  MS.  gives,  by  collation,  the  following  variations 
and  additions,  but  a  sheet  or  two  of  it  is  missing  in  the  third  part. 

Pt.  I,  No.  vi,  line  3,  "  sette,"  not  sethe,  also  in  viij,  p.  7,  line  3. 

xii,  p.  8,  line  1,  A.  adds,  after  "^igr-to,"  "temper  hit  w/tA  alle :  take 
raysons  of  corance  clene  wasshid  :  put  j^em  ]7er-to." 

siiij,  line  5,  A.  reads  "styue,"  i.e.  stew,  not  sterc.  rightly. 

xxiiij,  Title,  A.  "Brawne  gruelle";  line  2,  "  pricke  it." 

xxxiij,  line  5,  after  Salt  is  added  "  then  cut  fair  brewis,  and  dresse  theym 
yn  disshes,  &  cast  j^e  lire  theron." 

XXXV,  page  13,  line  1,  "  leche  them  in  faire  gohettis,  and  pike  out  the 
core,  and  cast." 

xlv,  line  4,  "  stue,"  altered  from  "  streyne,"  for  stere. 

xlviij,  line  2,  after  Roysouns,  A,  adds  "  \erto,  raisons";  rightly, 

lij,  line  6,  A.  reads  "  sode  in,  and  stepe  ]7er-on,"  making  sense. 

Ixvij,  instead  of  [^mynce],  A.  has  "  larde,"  i.e.  "  cut  in  thin  slices." 

Ixxx,  after  clene,  A.  adds,  "and  sethe  Jjem." 

Ixxxiiij,  line  6,  "  cleue,"  before  noivt;  making  sense. 

Ixxxvij,  line  7,  after  is,  "&  confecc«ons  or  chare  de  quynce  a  good 
qMflntite,"  inserted. 

Cix,  lines  1,  2,  "and  lete  wexe  al  white,"  not  "an  make  hem  alle  \e 
whyte." 

Cx,  after  Stokhefysshe  A.  adds,  "or  of  freishe  mylwel  or  codling,"  and 
reads  "of  Plays." 

Cxlv,  line  6,  "fro  j^e  holys,"  rightly. 

Cliiij,  line  3,  A.  omits  siigre,  (the  "white"  means  White  of  egg,)  and  in 
line  11  reads  "a-boue"  in  place  of  "  aneward." 

Pt.  II,  viij,  last  line  on  p.  35,  "  and"  after  Pepir,  making  sense. 

X,  A.  reads  at  line  6,  an  lat  it  "  clene  ouer-renne." 

xij,  page  37,  A.  adds  "  Je  lus,"  after  ivrynge,  and  has  no  "J;e"  before 
grene. 

xiiij,  page  37,  "Jeanne  take  braw[n]  y-broylyd  and  cast  \er-to,"  added 
after  "j^er-to,"  in  line  2. 

xvij,  page  37,  last  line,  A,  reads,  "  and  so  ley  hit  colde  in  J^e  dysshe,  and 
]:at  but  a  litil,  J^at  vnnethe  \e  bottumys  be  holuyd." 

xxiij,  page  39,  line  1,  the  second  salt  is  not  in  A. 

xxvij,  page  39,  A.  reads  "  al  aboutc  loke  Jjat "  it  le  ra^ischcd ;  "  and  lete 
hit  be  wcl  sodyn,"  later-. 


READINGS    OF    ASHMOLE    MS.;    AND    ERRATA.  XIX 

xxviij,  page  40,  after  Eijroun,  "and  rawe  creme  or  swete  mylke,"  added. 

xxix,  page  40,  after  Gredelle  A.  adds,  *'  til  hit  be  broune." 

xxxvij,  p.  41,  A.  adds  "fete,"  after  Piggys,  which,  is  required;  and 
reads  "and  moche  sauge." 

xxxix,  last  line  on  page  41,  A.  reads  "&  do  ]7er-to  a  lytil  ponder  Canelle ;" 

xliv,  page  42,  last  line,  after  panne,  A.  adds  between  lines,  "&  let  frie 
y-nogh." 

1,  page  44,  last  line  but  two,  A.  adds  "  &  let  hete  a  litel,"  between  lines, 
after  "  j^er-on,"  and  in  next  line  adds,  "and  leche  it,  or  els  al  hole," 
after  vp. 

Ix,  page  46,  line  eight,  A.  reads  "  white  "  before  "Sugre,"  not  "w«t7t-al." 

Pt.  Ill,  xvj,  page  50,  last  line,  A.  adds,  "but  lete  \e.  cofyns,"  before 
lalce ;  making  sense. 

xxij,  page  51,  no  blank. 

xxiij,  page  52,  A.  adds  after  cofijn,  line  8,  "then  caste  in  the  sew  rounde 
a-boute  vppon  hym  yn  J^e  cofyne,"  and  makes  sense. 

The  Editor  did  not  discover  the  Ashmole  MS.  till  much  of  the  first 
Cookery  was  in  print,  and  consequently  was  unable  to  make  full  use  of 
it  for  purpose  of  collation.  The  reader  will  kindly  correct  the  following 
Errata. 

p.  15,  note  4,  read  Lozenges  in  place  of  "long  thin  strips." 

p.  17,  last  line,  dele  comma  after  Alntaunden, 

p.  19,  1.  4,  put  comma  after  mijllie. 

p.  21,  1.  14,  read  slale  Water;  4th  line  from  bottom,  read  "  jif  it  [cleue] 

nowt,"  with  A. 
p.  27,  1.  17,  read,  "  or  bony  caste  J^er-to  ;"  with  no  semicolon  after  hong. 
p.  31,  4th  line  from  bottom,  read  \rifti. 
p.  48,  1.  5,  read  "  hele  j^in  cofyns." 

p.  49,  1.  7,  read  "or  a  bore,  or  of  a  Bcre:"  1.  8,  put  semicolon  after 

"Eyroun;"  and  dele  the  semicolon  after  tyne,  reading  cyue'va. 

place  of  that  word,  and  also  in  place  of  the  Ujne  in  the  line  aboA'c. 

p.  50,  1.  20,  read  "for  defaute,"  and  before  bottom  line  add,  "  but  lete  ]e 

cofyns,"  with  A. 
p.  57,  Heading  6,  read  "  ad  Episcopatum  Bathonensem  et  Wellensem." 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOK.    I. 


HAELEIAN  MS.  279,  ab.  1420  a.d. 


'Incipit  li  Kalendare  de  Potages  dyuers. 


No. 
.1. 


Jjange  wortys  de  chare  .     . 

Lange  wortys  de  Pesoun      .     .     .ij . 

louutes iij. 

Caboges iiij. 

"Whyte  wortys v. 

Beff  y-stywyd vj. 

Gruelle  a-forcyd vij. 

Venysoun  w/tA  furmenty      .     .     .viij. 

Trype  de  Motoiin ix. 

"Wardonys  in  Siryppe       .     .     .     .x. 

Froyde  Almaundys xj. 

Fryit  Creme  of  Almandys     .     .     .xij. 

Creme  y-boylid xiij. 

Quystys  Scune xiiij- 

Bowres xv. 

Fylettys  in  galentyne       .     .     .     .xvi. 

Garbage xvij. 

Pertryche  stewyd sviij. 

Smale  birdys  y-stewyd    .     .     .     .xix. 

Papyns xx. 

Blandyssorye xxj. 

Venyson  in  brothe xxij. 

Nomblys  of  pe  venysoun       .     .     .xxiij. 

DrawjTi  grwelle xxiiij . 

Balloke  brothe xxt. 

Coleys XX  vj. 

Soupcs  dorye xxvij, 

Soupes  lamberlayne xxviij. 

Lyode  Soppes xxix. 


No. 


9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

11 

11 

11 


Ooupes  dorroy xxx.  11 

Brawun  en  peuerade    .     .     .     .xxxj.  11 

Auter  brawune  en peuerade   .     .xxxij.  12 

Oyle  soppis xxxiij.  12 

Charde  wardoun xxxiiij.  12 

Perys  in  composts xxxv.  12 

Vele,  Kede,  or  Henne  in  boke- 

nade xxxvj.  13 

Autre  Vele  in  biikenade    .     .     .xxsvij.  13 

Storion  en  broj^e xxxviij.    13 

Oystres  in  grauy xxxix.  13 

Oystres  in  grauy  bastard  .     .     .xl.  13 

Gelyne  in  dubbate xlj.  13 

Conyng,  Mawlard,  in  gely  or 

in  cyuey xlij  14 

Mortrewys  of  Fysshe  .     .     .     .xliij.  14 

Mortrewys  de  Fleysshe     .     .     .xliiij.  14 

For  to  make  blaunche  Perrey.     .xlv.  1 4 

Pommes ^1^'j-  14 

Cawdelle  Ferry xlvij,  15 

Taylowres xlviij.  15 

Bryndons xlix.  15 

A  potage  on  a  Fysshe  day     .     .1.  15 

Cawdel  de  Almaunde   .     .     .     .Ij.  16 

Gyngaudre Iij.  16 

Eapeye Iiij.  16 

Eapeye liiij.  16 

luschelle  of  Fysshe Iv.  16 

Charlette Ivj.  17 


leaf  1. 


CONTENTS    OF    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGES    DYUERS. 


lente 


fjTe 


Charlette  a-forcyd  ryaly  . 

Let  Lory 

Furmenty  vfith  purpaysse 
Trype  of  Turbutor  of  Codlyng 
A  gos  in  hogepotte 
Conyngys  in  graueye 
Harys  in  cyiiey .     . 
Capon  in  Consewe  . 
Hennys  in  bruette . 
Bruet  Sareson   .     . 
Bniet  of  Almayne 
Bruet  of  Almaynne  in 
Whyte  Mortrewys 
Faintempere 
Murrey   .... 
Talbottys      .     . 
Conyngys  in  cyuey 
Arbolettys    .     ,     , 
Spyneye  .... 
Brasele    ... 
Crerae  de  Coloure  . 
Colouryd  sew  Wit/iout 
Apple  mose  . 
Salomene 
Blaundyssorye  . 
Blamangere .     . 
Vyand  de  C}'prys  bastard 
Vyand  de  cyprys  ryalle 
Gaylede .     .     . 
Rys    .     .     .     . 
Mammenye  ryalle 
Mammenye  bastard  ^ 
Elys  in  Gauncely  . 
Hennys  in  Gauncely 
Vyolette       .     .     . 
Oystrys  in  bruette 
"Walkys  in  bruette 
Tenche  in  bruette 
Tenche  in  cyueye  . 
Tenche  in  Sauce    . 
Chykonys  in  bruette 
Blaniangipr  of  Fysshe 
Sardeynejs   .     .     . 
Roseye   .... 
Eyroun  in  poche 

»  leaf  2 


No.        P 
.Ivij. 
.Iviij. 
.Hx. 
.Ix. 
.Ixj. 
.Ixij. 
.Ixiij. 
.Ixiiij. 
.Ixv. 
.Ixvj. 
.Ixvij. 
.Ixviij. 
.Ixix. 
.Ixx. 
.Ixxj. 
.Ixxij. 
.Ixxiij . 
.Ixxiiij. 
.Ixxv. 
.Ixxvj. 
.Ixxvij. 
.Ixxviij. 
.Ixxix. 
.Ixxx. 
.Ixxxj. 
.Ixxxij. 
.Ixxxiij. 
.Ixxxiiij. 
.Ixxxv. 
.Ixxxvj. 
.Ixxxvij. 
.Ixxxviij. 
.Ixxxix. 
.Ixxxx. 
.Ixxxxj. 
.Ixxxxij. 
•Ixxxxiij. 
.Ixxxxiiij. 
.Ixxxxv. 
.Ixxxxv] . 
.Ixxxxvij. 
.Ixxxxviij. 
.Ixxxxix. 
.C. 
•  Cj. 


sge  No.  Page 

17  Muskelys  in  bruette  .     .     .     .Cij.  24 

17  Fygeye Ciij.  24 

17  Bolas Ciiij.  24 

18  Loreyde  bolas Cv.  25 

18  Rapeye  of  Fleyssbe   .     .     .     .Cvj.  25 

18  Sore  sengle Cvij.  25 

18  Prymerose Cviij.  25 

18  Gelye  de  chare Cix.  25 

18  Gelye  de  Fysshe Cx.  26 

19  Tannye Cxi.  26 

19  Sturmye Cxij.  26 

19  Bruette  sake Cxiij.  27 

19  Taylys Cxiiij.  27 

19  Quynade Cxv.  27 

19  Blaunche  de  ferry       .     .     .     .Cxvj.  27 

19  Sawge^ Cxvij.  28 

20  Murreye Cxviij.  28 

20  Vyaunde  de  cyprys  in  Lente     .Cxix.  28 

20  Whyte  Mortrewys  of  Porke.     .Cxx.  28 

20  Rapeye Cxxj.  28 

20  A  rede  morreye Cxxij.  28 

20  Stawberye Cxxiij.  29 

20  Chyrioun Cxxiiij.  29 

21  Vyolette Cxxv.  29 

21  Rede  Rose Cxxvj.  29 

21  Prymerose Cxxvij.  29 

21  Flourys  of  haw^orn  .     .     .     .Cxxviij.  29 

21  A  potage  on  a  fyssheday      .     .Cxxix.  29 

22  Brues  in  lente Cxxx.  29 

22  A  potage  colde Cxxxj.  30 

22  Sauke  sarsouu Cxxxij.  30 

22  Rapeye Cxxxiij.  30 

22  Apple  moyle Cxxxiiij.  30 

23  Applade  Ryal Cxxxv.  SO 

23  A  potage  of  Roysonys    .     .     .Cxxxvj.  30 

23  Chykonys  in  dropey   .     .     .     .Cxxxvij.  30 

23  Pumpes Cxxxviij.  31 

23  Caudel  Ferry  departy  with 

23           a  blamanger Cxxxix,  31 

23  Egredouncye Cxi.  31 

23  Noteye Cxlj.  31 

23  Vyaunde  Ryal Cxlij.  32 

24  Lampreys  in  galeutyne  .  .  .Cxiiij.  32 
24  Chycouys  wyth  pe  brewes  .  .Cxliiij.  32 
24  Blaunche  pereye Cxlv.  32 

•  leaf  2  bk.  »  leaf  3. 


CONTENTS   OF    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    METYS. 


No.        Page 

Kytli  so  caboges  1 Cxlvj.       33 

Brewes  in  lentyn Cxlvij.      33 

WLjiie  pesyn  iu  grauey     .     .     .Cxlviij.    33 
A  potage Cxlix.      33 


No.  Page 

Caudel  owt  of  lentyn    .     .     .     .CI.  33 

Creme  bastard' Clj.  33 

Capon  in  Salome Clij.  33 

Pompys Cliij.  34 


2  Hie  incipit 

Brawn  in  comfyte j. 

Blaunche  braun ij. 

Pynade iij. 

Gyngere  brede iiij. 

Leche  Lumbard v. 

Auter  maner  lecbe  Lumbard  .     .vj. 

Soupes  of  salomere vij. 

Lete  lardys viij. 

Mange  molejTi ix. 

Vyand  de  Lecbe x. 

Vyand  Lecbe xj. 

Vyand  Lecbe xij. 

Vyand  lecbe xiij. 

Vyand  lecbe xiiij. 

Storioun  lecbe iv. 

Cbare  de  wardon  leche      .     .     .xvj. 

Vyand  lecbe x^'ij- 

Vyand  lecbe xviij. 

Pome  dorres ......     .xix. 

Yrchons    xx. 

An  entrayle xxj. 

For  to  make  Floiire  of  Eys   .     .xxij. 

Pome  garnej xxiij. 

Waffres xxiiij. 

Hagws  of  a  scbepe xxv. 

Francbemyle x^^j- 

Apprayler xxvij. 

Cokyntryce xxviij 

Mylke  Rostyd  ^ xxix. 

Alowys  de  Beef  or  Motoun    .     .xxx. 
To  make  stekys  of  Venysoun 

or  Beef xxxj. 

A  Syrippe  pur  vn  Pestelle      .     .xxxij . 
Pygge  Farcyd xxxiij 


Ealendar^  de  Leche  Metys. 

34       Puddyng  of  Capoun  necke 
Capoun  or  goos  farcyd 
Pocerounce    .     .     . 
Sauoge      .... 
A  kyde  a-force  .     . 
Eyroun  in  lente 
Puddyng  of  Purpays 
Raynollys 
Froyse  in  lente 
Payn  purdew 
Meselade  .     . 
Brawn  fryej   . 
Longe  Fretoure 
Eapeye     .... 
Euschewys  in  lente 
Hanoney  .... 
Hagase  de  Almayne 
Cryspis      .... 
Ruscbewys  of  Marw 
LesjTiges  de  cbare   . 
Fretoure  .... 
Cbawettys  fryej 
Tansye      .... 
Froyse  out  of  lentyn 


34 
34 
35 
35 
35 
35 
35 
36 
36 
36 
36 
37 
37 
37 
37 
37 
38 
38 
38 
38 
38 
38 
39 
39 
39 
39 
40 
40 
40 

40 
40 
40 


.XXXUIJ. 
.XXXV. 
.XXXV]  . 

•xxxvij. 
.xxxvii], 
.xxxix. 
.xl. 

.xlj_. 

•  ^li  j  • 

.xliij. 

.xliiij. 

.xlv. 

.xlvj. 

.xlvij. 

.xlviij. 

.xlix. 

.1. 

•Ij- 

.Iij. 

.Iiij. 

.liiij. 

.Iv. 

.Ivj. 

.Ivij. 


41 

41 
41 
41 
41 
41 
42 
42 
42 
42 
42 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 
45 
45 
45 


[One  leaf  is  missing  here;    the  contents  are 

supplied  from  the  text.] 

[Ryscbewys  close  &  Fryez      .     .Iviij.  45 

Nese  Bekys lix.  45 

Mylez  in  Eapeye Ix.  46 

Cruste  Eolle Ixj.  46 

Cbawettys  a-forsed Ixij.  46 

Fretoure  owt  of  lente  .     .     .     .Ixiij.  46 

Towres Ixiiij  46 


Tartes  de  Cbare  .     .     . 

A-noj^er  manere ij. 

A-no]ier  manere iij 

1  leaf  3  bk. 


Here  begynnytb  dyuerse  bake  metis. 
.     .     .j.  47       Daryoles  .     .     . 


iiij-  47 

47       A-notber  manere v.  47 

47       Tartes  of  Fysscbe vi.  47 

2  leafi.  3  leafi  bk. 


CONTENTS   OF    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    BAKE    METYS. 


No.  Page 

Chawettys  . vij.  48 

Chawettys viij.  48 

Malmenye  Furnez ix,  48 

Eapeye x.  48 

Tartes  of  Frute  in  lente  .  .  .xj.  48 
Un  vyaunde  fumej  sanj  nouw 

de  chare xij.  49 

Un  vyaunde  furnej  sanj  nom 

de  chare siij.  49 

Pety  Pernollys xiiij.  50 

Doucetej xv.  50 

Crustade xvj.  50 

Crustade  lumbard ^^"'j-  ^l- 

Flathons x^iij.  51 

Venyson  y-bake xix.  51 

Pety  Pernauntes xx.  51 

Quyncis  or  Wardo?«ns  in  past .     .xxj.  51 

Lampro2ms  y-bake xxij.  51 

Lamprays  bake xxiij.  52 


No.       Pace 

Tartes  de  chare xxiiij.  52 

Rastons xxv.  62 

Darioles ^xvj.  53 

Pyej  de  parej xxvij.  53 

Potrous xxviij.  53] 

^  Flarapoyntys  bake     .     .     .     .xxix.  53 

Sew  trappe xxx.  54 

Herbelade xxxj.  54 

A  Bake  Mete xxxij.  54 

A  Bake  Mete  Eyalle   .     .     .     .xxxiij  55 

Crustade  Ryal xxxiiij.  55 

Crustade xxxv.  5-5 

Crustade  gentyle xxxvj.  55 

Doucettys xxxvij.  55 

Doucettys  a-forcyd      .     .     .     .xxxviij.  55 

Daryolej xxxix.  55 

Dar)-ole5 xl.  56 

Flathons  in  lente xlj.  56 


leaf  5. 


COOKERY   BOOK.    1.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS. 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOK.   I. 

Ab.  1420  A.D. 


TOT  AGE  DYVERS. 

.j.  Lange  Wortys  de  chare. — Take  beeff  and  merybonys,  and  boyle  yt  in 
fayre  -^ater;  j^an  take  fayre  wortys  and  wassche  hem  clene  in  water,  and 
parboyle  hem  in  clene  water ;  ]>an  take  hem  vp  of  J^e  water  after  j^e  fyi-st 
boylyng,  an  cut  ]>e  leuys  a-to  or  a-J^re,  and  caste  hem  in-to  fe  beff,  and  boyle 
to  gederys:  j^an  take  a  lof  of  whyte  brede  and  grate  yt,  an  caste  it  on  j^e 
pot,  an  safron  &  salt,  &  let  it  boyle  y-now,  and  serue  forth. 

.ij.  Lange  Wortes  de  pesoun. — Take  grene  pesyn,  an  washe  hem  clene 
an  caste  hem  on  a  potte,  an  boyle  hem  tyl  ]>ej  breste,  an  Jeanne  take  hem 
vppe  of  ])e  potte,  an  put  hem  with  brothe  yn  a-no|7er  potte,  and  lete  hem 
kele ;  ]?an  draw  hem  Jjorw  a  straynowre  in-to  a  fayre  potte,  an  J'an  take 
oynonys,  and  screde  hem  in  to  or  j^re,  an  take  hole  wortys  and  boyle  hem 
in  fayre  water :  and  take  hem  vppe,  an  ley  hem  on  a  fayre  bord,  an  cytte 
on  .iij.  or  iiij.,  an  ley  hem  to  j^e  oynonys  in  ]>&  potte,  to  ]>e  drawyd  pesyn  ; 
an  let  hem  boyle  tyl  J^ey  ben  tendyr;  an  Jeanne  tak  fayre  oyle  and  frye 
hem,  or  ellys  sum  fresche  bro]7e  of  sum  manor  fresche  fysshe,  an  caste  J>er-to, 
an  Safron,  an  salt  a  quantyte,  and  serue  it  forth. 

.iij.  Joutes. — Take  Borage,  Yyolet,  Malwys,  Percely,  Tong "Wortys,  Bete, 
Auence,  Longebelf,  wyth  Orage  an  oper,  pyke  hem  clene,  and  caste  hem 
on  a  vessel,  and  boyle  hem  a  goode  whyle  ;  Jian  take  hem  and  presse  hem 
on  a  fayre  bord,  an  hew  hem  ryght  smal,  an  put  whyte  brede  Jier-to,  an 
grynd  wyth-al;  an  Jjan  caste  hem  in-to  a  fayre  potte,  an  gode  freshe  brothe 
y-now  ]7er-to  ]7orw  a  straynowr,  [&  caste]  ]7er-to  .ij.  or  .iij.  Marybonys,  or 
ellys  fayre  fresche  brothe  of  beff,  and  let  hem  sethe  to-gederys  a  whyle  : 

1  leaf  6. 


6  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS. 

an  j^an  caste  J^er-to  Safron,  and  let  hem  setlie  to-gederys  a  whyle,  an  J?an 
caste  ]7er-to  safron  and  salt ;  and  serue  it  forth  in  a  dysshe,  an  bakon 
y-boylyd  in  a-no]?er  dysshe,  as  men  seruyth  furmenty  Tvyth  venyson. 

^.iiij.  Caboges. — Take  fayre  caboges,  an  cutte  hem,  an  pike  hem  clene 
and  clene  washe  hem,  an  parboyle  hem  in  fayre  water,  an  Jeanne  presse 
hem  on  a  fayre  bord ;  an  ]7an  choppe  hem,  and  caste  hem  in  a  faire  pot 
'with  goode  freysshe  broth,  an  wyth  mery-bonys,  and  let  it  boyle :  Jeanne 
grate  fayre  brede  and  caste  jier-to,  an  caste  ]7er-to  Safron  an  salt ;  or  ellys 
take  gode  grwel  y-mad  of  freys  flesshe,  y-draw  )7orw  a  strayno2<r,  and 
caste  ]7er-to.  An  whan  jjou  seruyst  yt  inne,  knocke  owt  J^e  marw  of  ]>e 
bonys,  an  ley  ])e  marwe  .ij.  gobettys  or  .iij.  in  a  dysshe,  as  j^e  semyth  best, 
&  serue  forth. 

.v.  Whyte  wortes. — Take  of  J^e  erbys  lyke  as  J^ou  dede  for  jouutes,  and 
sethe  hem  [in]  water  tyl  j^ey  ben  neyshe ;  Jianne  take  hem  vp,  an  bryse 
hem  fayre  on  a  bord,  as  drye  as  J>ow  may ;  J^an  choppe  hem  smale,  an  caste 
hem  on  a  potte,  an  ley  hem  -with  flowre  of  Rys ;  take  mylke  of  almaundys, 
an  cast  Jier-to,  &  hony,  nowt  to  moche,  ]7at  it  be  nowt  to  swete,  an  safron 
&  salt ;  an  serue  it  forth  ynne,  ryjth  for  a  good  potage. 

.yj.  Beef  y-Stywyd. — Take  fayre  beef  of  ]>e  rybbys  of  ])e  fore  quarterys, 
an  smyte  in  fayre  pecys,  an  wasche  ]>e  beef  in-to  a  fayre  potte  ;  ]>an  take 
J7e  water  j^at  J^e  beef  was  sojiin  yn,  an  strayne  it  Jiorw  a  straynowr,  an  sethe 
fe  same  water  and  beef  in  a  potte,  an  let  hem  boyle  to-gederys ;  j^an  take 
canel,  clowes,  maces,  graynys  of  parise,  quibibes,  and  oynons  y-mynced, 
pwceli,  an  sawge,  an  caste  )7er-to,  an  let  hem  boyle  to-gederys ;  an  ]?an 
take  a  lof  of  brede,  an  stepe  it  yvith  brothe  an  venegre,  an  j^an  draw  it  j^orw 
a  straynoure,  and  let  it  be  sty  lie ;  an  whan  it  is  nere  y-now,  caste  ]ie  lycour 
]7er-to,  but  nowt  to  moche,  an  ]>aB.  let  boyle  onys,  an  cast  safroun  ]?er-to  a 
quantyte ;  J^an  take  salt  an  venegre,  and  cast  J'er-to,  an  loke  jiat  it  be 
poynaunt  y-now,  &  serue  forth. 

.vij.  Gruelle  a-forsydde. — Take  otemele,  an  grynd  it  smal,  an  sethe  it 
"wyl,  an  porke  J^er-ynne,  an  pulle  of  J^e  swerde^  an  pyke  owt  ]>e  bonys,  an 
jjan  hewe  it,  an  grynd  it  smal  in  a  morter ;  ]7an  neme  J^in  *  grwel  an  do 
j7er-to,  jjan  strayne  it  |>orw  a  straynour,  an  put  it  in  a  potte  an  sethe  it  a 
lytel,  an  salt  it  euene^;  an  colour  it  wyth  safrou»,  an  serue  forth  rennyng. 

•Viij .  Venyson  with  Furmenty. — Take  whete  and  pyke  it  cleue,  and  do  it 
in  a  morter,  an  caste  a  lytel  water  ]7er-on ;  an  stampe  with  a  pestel  tyl  it 

^  If.  6  back.        ^  leaf  7  ((r^^  =  well).         ^  sward,  rind,  skin.        *  thiue.         *  equally. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVEUS.  7 

hole ';  ])an  fan  owt  j^e  holys,^  an  put  it  in  a  potte,  an  let  sethe  tyl  it  breke  ,* 
fan  set  yt  doun??,  an  sone  after  set  it  ouer  J-e  fyre,  an  stere  it  wyl ;  an  wlian 
]70w  hast  sothyn  it  wyl,  put  ]>er-inne  swete  mylke,  an  sej^e  it  y-fere,  an  stere 
it  wyl ;  and  whan  it  is  y-now,  coloure  it  wyth  safron,  an  salt  it  euene,  and 
dresse  it  forth,  &  )?in  venyson  in  a-nother  dyshe  w^tA  fayre  hot  water. 

.ix.  Trype  de  Motoun. — Take  fe  pownche  of  a  chepe,  and  make  it  clene, 
an  caste  it  on  a  pot  of  boylyng  water,  an  skyme  it  clene,  an  gader  J^e  grece 
al  a-way,  an  lat  it  boyle  tyl  it  be  tender ;  ])an  ley  it  on  a  fayre  bord,  an 
kyt  it  in  smale  pecys  of  the'  peny  brede,  an  caste  it  on  an  erj>en  pot  with 
strong  brothe  of  bef  or  of  moton  ;  Jeanne  take  leuys  of  ]>e  p^/'cely  an  hew 
hem  ]>er-to,  an  let  hem  boyle  to-gederys  tyl  j^ey  byn  tender,  j^an  take 
powder  of  gyngere,  and  verious,  J^an  take  [Safroun]  ^  an  salt,  and  caste 
J'cr-to,  an  let  boyle  to-gederys,  an  serue  in, 

.X.  Wardonys  in  syryp. — Take  wardonys,  an  caste  on  a  potte,  and  boyle 
hem  till  j^ey  ben  tender ;  }'an  take  hem  vp  and  pare  hem,  an  kytte  hem  in 
to  *  pecys ;  take  y-now  of  powder  of  canel,  a  good  quantyte,  an  caste  it  on 
red  wyne,  an  draw  it  J^orw  a  straynour ;  caste  sugre  j^er-to,  an  put  it  [in]  an 
erj^en  pot,  an  let  it  boyle  :  an  Jeanne  caste  j^e  perys  j^er-to,  an  let  boyle  to- 
gederys,  an  whan  ]>ej  haue  boyle  a  whyle,  take  ponder  of  gyngere  an  caste  fei- 
to,  an  a  lytil  venegre,  an  a  lytil  safron ;  an  loke  fat  it  be  poynaunt  an  dowcet. 

^xj.  Froyde  almoundys.  —  Take  blake  sugre,  an  cold  water,  an  do  hem 
to''  in  a  fayre  potte,  an  let  hem  boyle  to-gedere,  an  salt  it  an  skeme  it  clene, 
an  let  it  kele ;  j^an  take  almaundys,  an  blawnche  hem  clene,  an  stSmpe 
hem,  an  draw  hem,  with  fe  sugre  water  thikke  y-now,  in-to  a  fayre  vessel : 
an  [yf]  fe  mylke  be  nojt  swete  y-now,  take  whyte  sugre  an  caste  )7er-to. 

.xij.  Fride  Creme  of  Almaundys. — Take  almaundys,  an  sta?«pe  hem,  an 
draw  it  vp  wyth  a  fyne  thykke  mylke,  y-temperyd  wyth  clene  water;  throw 
hem  on,  an  sette  hem  in  fe  fyre,  an  let  boyle  onys :  fan  tak  hem  a-down, 
an  caste  salt  )7er-on,  an  let  hem  reste  a  forlongwey  ^  or  to,  an  caste  a  lytyl 
sugre  Jier-to ;  an  J^an  caste  it  on  a  fayre  lynen  clothe,  fayre  y-wasche  an 
drye,  an  caste  it  al  a-brode  on  fe  clothe  with  a  fayre  ladel :  an  let  J^e  clothe 
ben  holdyn  a-brode,  an  late  all  j^e  water  vnder-nethe  fe  clothe  be  had  a-way, 
an  panne  gadere  alle  fe  kreme  in  fe  clothe,  an  let  hongy  on  an  pyn,  and  let 
fe  water  droppe  owt  to'  or  .iij.  owrys ;  )7an  take  it  of  J^e  pyn,  an  put  it  on  a 
bolle  of  tre,  and  caste  whyte  sugre  y-now  ]7er-to,  an  a  lytil  salt ;  and  ^if  it 

1  Hull,  lose  the  husks.         ^  Hulls ;  husks.  ^  MS.  they.  *  Added  from  A. 

*  ?  =  ' in  two  pieces.'  ^  If.  7  bk.  ''  two.  *  Other  U.'S.  forlatige. 


"  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYYERS. 

Tvexe  J^ikke,  take  swete  wyn  an  put  ]jer-to  'pat  it  be  nojt  sene :  and  whan  it 
is  I-dressid  in  the  maner  of  mortrewys,  take  red  anys  in  comfyte,  or  ]'e  leuys 
of  borage,  an  sette  hem  on  J^e  dysshe,  an  serue  forth. 

.xiij.  Creme  Boylede. — Take  creme  or  mylke,  &'  brede  of  paynemayn, 
or  ellys  of  tendyr  brede,  an  breke  it  on  ]>e  creme,  or  eWes  in  ]>e  mylke,  an 
set  it  on  ]>e  fyre  tyl  it  be  warme  hot ;  and  ]7orw  a  straynour  |)rowe  it,  and 
put  it  in-to  a  fayre  potte,  an  sette  it  on  J^e  fyre,  an  stere  euermore  :  an  whan 
it  is  almost  y-boylyd,  take  fayre  jolkys  of  eyron,  an  draw  hem  J^orw  a 
straynowr,  and  caste  hem  J^er-to,  and  let  hem  stonde  oner  the  fyre  tyl  it 
boyle  almost,  an  till  *  it  be  skylf  ully  ^  jpikke  ;  ]7an  *caste  a  ladel-ful,  or  more 
or  lasse,  of  boter  ]7er-to,  an  a  good  quantite  of  whyte  sugre,  and  a  litel  salt, 
an  ]'an  dresse  it  on  a  dysshe  in  maner  of  mortrewys. 

.xiiij.  ftuystis  Scune. — Take  a  pece  of  beef  or  of  mutou??,  and  wyne  and 
fayre  water,  and  caste  in-to  a  potte,  an  late  hem  boyle,  an  skeme  it  wyl  an 
clene ;  ]7an  take  quystes,  an  stoppe  hem  wyth-in  wyth  hole  pepyr,  and 
marwe,  an  Jian  caste  hem  in-to  J^e  potte,  an  ceuere  wyl  ]>e  potte,  an  let  hem 
stere  ryjth  wyl  to-gederys;  an  ]?an  take  powder  gyngere,  and  a  lytel 
verious  an  salt,  and  caste  J7er-to,  an  Jeanne  serue  hem  forth  in  a  fayre  dysshe, 
a  quyste  or  to  in  a  dysshe,  in  jie  manor  of  a  potage :  an  whan  ]>owe  shalt 
serue  hem  forth,  take  a  lytil  of  J^e  broth,  an  put  on  dysshe  wyth  quystys,  an 
serue  forth. 

.XV.  Bowres.— Take  Pypis,  Hertys,  Nerys,  Myltys,  an  Rybbys  of  the 
Swyne  ;  or  ellys  take  Mawlard,  or  Gees,  an  chop  hem  smal,  and  thanne 
parboyle  hem  in  fayre  water ;  an  Jian  take  it  vp,  and  pyke  it  clene  in-to  a 
fayre  potte,  an  caste  J?er-to  ale  y-now,  &  sawge  an  salt,  and  j^an  boyle  it 
ryjth  wel ;  and  J7anne  serue  it  forthe  for  a  goode  potage. 

.xvj.  Fylettys  en  Galentyne. — Take  fayre  porke,  ]>e  fore  quarter,  an 
take  of  ]>e  skyne  ;  an  put  Jje  porke  on  a  fayre  spete,  an  rost  it  half  y-now  ; 
Jjan  take  it  of,  an  smyte  it  in  fayre  pecys,  &  caste  it  on  a  fayre  potte  ;  J^an 
take  oynonys,  and  schrede  hem,  an  pele  hem  (an  pyle  hem  nowt  to  smale),  an 
f rye  in  a  panne  of  fayre  grece  ;  l^an  caste  hem  in  }e  potte  to  ]>e  porke ;  )7an 
take  gode  broth  of  moton  or  of  beef,  an  caste  J^er-to,  an  J^an  caste  J^er-to 
pouder  pepyr,  canel,  clowys,  an  macys,  an  let  hem  boyle  wyl  to-gederys ; 
Jian  tak  fayre  brede,  an  vynegre,  an  stepe  j^e  brede  with  ]>e  same  brothe,  an 
strayne  it  on  blode,  with  ale,  or  ellys  sawnderys,  and  *salt,  an  lat  hym  boyle 
y-now,  an  serue  it  forth. 

1  MS  or.  ^  MS,  >ow.  3  reasonably.  *  leaf  8.  *  leaf  8  bk. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS,    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS.  9 

.xvij.  Garbage. — Take  fayre  garbagys  of  chykonys,  as  J^e  lied,  J^e  fete,  ]ie 
lyiierys,  an  ]>e  gysowrys ;  washe  hem  clene,  an  caste  hem  in  a  fayre  potte, 
an  caste  }7er-to  freysshe  brothe  of  Beef  or  ellys  of  moton,  an  let  it  boyle  ;  an 
a-lye  it  wyth  brecle,  an  ley  on  Pepir  an  Safroun,  Maces,  Clowys,  an  a  lytil 
verious  an  salt,  an  serue  forth  in  the  maner  as  a  Sewe. 

.xviij.  Pertrich  stewyde. — Take  fayre  mary,^  brothe  of  Beef  or  of  Motou??, 
an  whan  it  is  wyl  sothyn,  take  J^e  brothe  owt  of  J^e  potte,  an  strayne  it 
thorw  a  straynowr,  an  put  it  on  an  erj^en  potte  ;  J^an  take  a  gocle  quantyte 
of  Tvyne,  as  ]70W  it  were  half,  an  put  ]'er-to  ;  ];an  take  j^e  pertryche,  an 
stufFe  hym  wyth  hole  pepir,  an  merw,^  an  than  sewe  J'e  ventys  of  ])e 
pertriche,  an  take  clowys  an  maces,  &  hole  pepir,  an  caste  it  in-to  J^e  potte, 
an  let  it  boyle  to-gederys ;  an  whan  J^e  pertryche  is  boylid  y-now,  take  J^e 
potte  of  ]ie  fyre,  an  whan  thou  schalt  scrue  hym  forth,  caste  in-to  j^e  potte 
powder  gyngere,  salt,  safron,  an  serue  forth. 

.xix.  Smale  Bp:dys  y-stwyde. — Take  smale  byrdys,  an  pulle  hem  an 
drawe  hem  clene,  an  washe  hem  fayre,  an  schoppe  of  ]>e  leggys,  and  frye  hem 
in  a  panne  of  freysshe  grece  ryjt  wyl ;  ]?an  ley  hem  on  a  fayre  lynen  clothe, 
an  lette  ]>e  grece  renne  owt ;  J' an  take  oynonys,  an  mynce  hem  smale,  an 
frye  hem  on  fayre  freysshe  grece,  an  caste  hem  on  an  erj^en  potte ; 
]7an  take  a  gode  porcyon  of  canel,  an  wyne,  an  draw  ]7orw  a  straynoure,  an 
caste  in-to  J^e  potte  •with  j^e  oynonys  ;  ]>an  caste  ]>e  bryddys  J^er-to,  an  clowys, 
an  maces,  an  a  lytil  quantyte  of  powder  pepir  ]iev-to,  an  lete  hem  boyle 
to-gederys  y-now ;  ]>an.  caste  J^er-to  whyte  sugre,  an  powder  gyngere,  salt, 
safron,  an  serue  it  forth. 

.XX.  Papyns.  — Take  fayre  Mylke  an  Plowre,  an  drawe  it  ]7orw  a  ^strayn- 
oure, an  set  it  ouer  J^e  fyre,  an  let  it  boyle  a-whyle ;  ]7an  take  it  owt  an 
let  it  kele ;  J^an  take  jolkys  of  eyroun  y-draw  ]7orwe  a  straynour,  an  caste 
J'er-to ;  j^an  take  sugre  a  gode  quantyte,  and  caste  j^er-to,  an  a  lytil  salt, 
an  sette  it  on  ]>e  fyre  tyl  it  be  sum -what  j^ikke,  but  let  it  nowt  boyle 
fullyche,  an  stere  it  wyl,  an  putte  it  on  a  dysshe  alle  a-brode,  and  serue 
forth  rennyng. 

.xxj.  Blandissorye. — Take  almaundys,  an  blawnche  hem,  an  grynde  hem 
in  a  morter,  an  tempore  hem  -with  freysshe  broj^e  of  capoun  or  of  beef,  an 
swete  wyne ;  an  jif  it  be  lente  or  fyssday,  take  brothe  of  J^e  freysshe  fysshe, 
an  swete  wyne,  an  boyle  hem  to-gederys  a  goode  whyle ;  j^enne  take  it  up, 
an  caste  it  on  a  fayre  lynen  clo]?e  j^at  is  clene  an  drye,  an  draw  under  J^e 

>  Marrow.     No.  28,  in  Douce  MS.,  has  my^fy  brothe.  *  Marrow.  ^  If.  9. 


10  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS. 

c\oj)e,  wyth  a  ladel,  alle  j^e  water  J^at  ]70w  may  fynde,  ryth  as  ]70w  makyst 
cold  creme ;  Jeanne  take  owt  of  the  potte,  an  caste  it  in-to  a  fayre  potte,  an 
let  it  boyle  ;  an  Jeanne  take  brawn  of  Capoun,  an  tese  it  smal  an  bray  it  [in] 
a  mortar :  or  ellys  on  a  fyssday  take  Pyke  or  Elys,  Codlyng  or  Haddok,  an 
temper  it  we'tA  almau?J  mylke,  an  caste  Sugre  y-now  j^er-to ;  An  }ian  caste 
hem  in-to  J7e  potte  and  lete  hem  boyle  to-gederys  a  goode  whyle :  j^enne 
take  it  owt  of  J^e  potte  alle  bote,  an  dresse  it  in  a  dysshe,  as  meni '  don 
cold  creme,  an  sette  j^er-on  Eed  Anys  in  comfyte,  or  ellys  Allemaundys 
blaunchid,  an  Jeanne  serue  it  forth  for  a  goode  potage. 

•xxij.  Venyson  in  Broth. — Take  Kybbys  of  Venysouu,  and  wasshe  hem 
clene  in  fayre  water,  an  strayne  ]>e  same  water  ]^orw  a  straynoure  in-to  a 
potte,  an  caste  ]7er-to  Yenysoun,  also  Percely,  Sawge,  powder  Pepyr,  Clowys, 
Maces,  Yynegre,  and  a  lytyl  Red  wyne  caste  J^ere-to  ;  an  j^anne  latte  it  boyle 
tyl  it  be  y-now,  &  serue  forth. 

.xxiij.  Nomblys  of  J^e  venyson. — Take  l^e  Nombles  of  Venysoun,  an  cutte 
hem  smal  whyle  j^ey  ben  raw ;  j^an  take  Fieysshe  bro]?e,  Watere,  an  Wyne, 
of  eche  a  quantyte,  an  powder  Pepir  an  Canel,  and  let  hem  ^boyle  to-gederys 
tyl  it  be  almost  y-now  ;  An  l^enne  caste  powder  Gyngere,  an  a  lytil  venegre 
an  Salt,  an  sesyn  it  vp,  an  Jeanne  serue  it  forth  in  ]>e  maner  of  a  gode 
potage. 

.xxiiij.  Drawyn  grwel.  —  Take  fayre  water  an  lene  Bef,  an  let  hem 
boyle ;  an  whan  ])e  beef  hath  y-boylid,  take  it  vp  an  pyke  it,  an  lete  it  blede 
in-to  ^  a  vessel,  an  Jienne  caste  ]>e  blode  an  ]>e  Fleysshe  in-to  a  potte ;  an 
Jeanne  caste  )7er-to  Otemele,  Percely,  &  Sawge,  an  make  ]7er-of  an  gode 
grwele ;  ]>en  draw  it  ]7orw  a  straynowre,  an  putte  it  on  a  fayre  potte,  an  let  it 
boyle ;  ]7anne  caste  J^er-to  Salt ;  An  jif  it  be  nowt  brown  y-now,  take  a  litil 
blode  an  caste  j>er-to  or  it  be  y-draw,  an  make  it  brouw  y-now,  an  serue 
it  forth. 

.XXV.  Balloke  Brothe. — Take  Elys  and  fle  hem,  an  kytte  hem  in  gobo^ms, 
an  caste  hem  in-to  a  fayre  potte  w«t/j  fayre  water ;  J^an  take  Percely  and 
Oynonys,  an  schrede  hem  to-gederys  nowt  to  smal ;  take  Clowes,  Maces,  an 
powder  Pepyr,  an  caste  J^er-to  a  gode  porcyon  of  wyne  ;  Jjen  take  jest  of  Kew 
ale  an  caste  )>er-to,  an  let  boyle :  an  when  J^e  Elys  byn  wyl  y-boylid,  take 
fayre  stokfysshe,  an  do  a- way  'pe  skyn,  an  caste  j^er-to,  an  let  boyle  a  whyle ; 
J;en  take  Safroun  and  Salt,  an  a  lytil  Yenegre,  an  caste  j^er-to,  an  serue  forth. 

.xxvj.  Coleys. — Take  a  gode  Capoun  an  boyle  hem  tendere,  an  pyke  a-way 
1  MS.  men.  *  If.  9  bk.  ^  MS.  blede  in-to,  repeated. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS.  11 

clene  ]>e  bonys  an  jie  Skyn,  an  bray  hym  in  a  morter,  an  tempere  hym  Tvyth 
j^e  same  brothe,  an  strayne  hym  j^orw  a  straynoure ;  ]?enne  take  ]>g  brawn  an 
j>e  fleyssbe,  an  a  lytil  whyte  brede,  an  bray  hem  alle  to-gederys  in  a  morter ; 
j^en  take  ]'e  lycowr  of  J'e  bonys,  an  ])e  skyn,  an  ]>e  brothe  ]7at  'pe  Capoim  was 
sothyn  ynne,  an  with  al  tempere  it,  but  nowt  to  j^icke ;  Jien  put  it  in  a  potte, 
an  let  it  be  al  bote,  but  let  it  boyle  for  no  J^ing ;  an  caste  Jier-to  a  litil  powder 
of  Gyngere,  Sugre  an  Salt.  An  jif  it  be  on  a  fyssheday,  take  Haddok, 
Pyke,  Tenche,  Eejge,  Codlynd,  an  pyke  a-way  ]>e  bonys  'an  tempere  wyth 
almaunde  mylke ;  an  make  it  hot,  an  caste  J^er-to  Sugre  an  Salt,  an  seme 
forth. 

.xxvij.  Soupes  dorye. — Take  gode  almaunde  mylke  y-draw  wyth  wyn, 
an  let  hem  boyle  to-gederys,  an  caste  J^er-to  Safroun  an  Salt ;  an  J^an  take 
Paynemayn,  an  kytte  it  an  toste  it,  an  wete  it  in  wyne,  an  ley  it  on  a 
dysshe,  an  caste  ]>e  syrip  )?er-on.  And  j^an  make  a  dragge  of  powder 
Gyngere,  Sugre,  canel,  Clowes,  Maces,  an  caste  Jier-on  When  it  is  y-di'essid, 
an  serue  Jeanne  forth  for  a  potage  gode. 

.xxviij.  Soupes  Jamberlayne.-  —  Take  "Wyne,  Canel,  an  powder  of 
Gyngere,  an  Sugre,  an  of  eche  a  porcyou??,  pan  take  a  straynoure  &  hange  it 
on  a  pynne,  an  caste  ale  j^er-to,  an  let  renne  twyis  or  J^ryis  throgh,  tyl  it 
renne  clei'e ;  an  ]>en  take  Paynemaynhe  an  kyt  it  in  maner  of  brewes,  an 
toste  it,  an  wete  it  in  J^e  same  lycowre,  an  ley  it  on  a  dysshe,  an  caste 
blawnche  powder  y-now  J^er-on ;  an  'pan  caste  pe  same  lycowr  vp-on  pe 
same  soppys,  [an]  serue  hem  forth  in  maner  of  a  potage. 

.xxix.  Lyode  Soppes. — Take  Mylke  an  boyle  it,  an  J-anne  take  plkys  of 
eyroun  y-tryid  fro  J^e  whyte,  an  draw  hem  J^orwe  A  straynoure,  an  caste  hem 
in-to  J^e  mylke,  an  sette  it  on  pe  fyre  an  hete  it,  but  let  it  nowt  boyle  ;  an 
store  it  wyl  tyl  it  be  somwhat  J^ikke ;  j^enne  caste  ]7er-to  Salt  &  Sugre,  an 
kytte  fayre  paynemaynnys  in  round  soppys,  an  caste  j^e  soppys  ]7er-on,  an 
serue  it  forth  for  a  potage. 

.XXX.  Soupes  dorroy. — Shere  Oynonys,  an  frye  hem  in  oyle ;  Jeanne  take 
Wyne,  an  boyle  with  Oynonys,  toste  whyte  Brede  an  do  on  a  dysshe,  an 
caste  J^er-on  gode  Almaunde  Mylke,  &  temper  it  wyth  wyne :  ]7aune  do  J^e 
dorry  a-bowte,  an  messe  it  forth. 

^xxxj.  Brawn  en  Peuerade. — Take  Wyne  an  powder  Canel,  and  draw  it 
J'orw  a  straynour,  an  sette  it  on  pe  fyre,*  and  lette  it  boyle,  an  caste  ]7er-to 
Clowes,  Maces,  an  powder  Pepyr ;  ]?an  take  smale  Oynonys  al  hole,  an 
'  leaf  10.  »  Chamberlain.  3  leaf  lo  bk. 


12     COOKERY  BOOK.  I.  HARLEIAN  MS.  279.  POTAGE  DYTERS. 

par-boyle  hem  in  hot  watere,  an  caste  )>er-to,  and  let  hem  boyle  to-gederys; 
]?an  take  Brawn,  an  lesshe  it,  but  nowt  to  ):'inne.  An  jif  it  sowsyd  be,  lete 
it  stepe  a  whyle  in  hot  water  tyl  it  be  tendere,  fan  caste  it  to  ]?e  Sirip ;  Jjen 
take  Sawnderys,  an  Yynegre,  an  caste  )>er-to,  an  lete  it  boyle  alle  to-gederys 
tyl  it  be  y-now ;  fen  take  Gyngere,  an  caste  J'er-to,  an  so  serue  forth ;  but 
late  it  be  nowt  to  l^ikke  ne  to  J'inne,  but  as  potage  shulde  be. 

.xxxij.  Auter  brawn  en  peuerade. — Take  myghty  brothe  of  Beef  or  of 
Capouu,  an  ]-'enne  take  clene  Freysshe  Brawn,  an  sethe  it,  but  not  y-now;  An 
jif  it  be  Freysshe  Brawn,  roste  it,  but  not  I-now,  an  ]7an  leche  it  in  pecys, 
an  caste  it  to  fe  brothe.  An  Jeanne  take  hoole  Oynonys,  &  pylle  hem,  an 
)'anne  take  Yynegre  J'er-to,  and  Canelle,  and  sette  it  on  fe  fyre,  an  draw  yt 
foTW  a  straynoure,  and  caste  J'er-to ;  j^en  take  Clowys,  Maces,  an  powder 
Pepyr,  an  caste  J>er-to,  and  a  lytil  Saunderys,  an  sette  it  on  j>e  fyre,  an  let 
boyle  tylle  ]>e  Oynonys  an  ]?e  Brawn  ben  euyne  sothyn,  an  nowt  to  moche  ;  Jian 
take  lykoure  y-mad  of  Bred  an  Yinegre  an  Wyne,  an  sesyn  it  vp,  an  caste 
J'er-to  Saffroun  to  make  J^e  coloure  bryth,  an  Salt,  an  serue  it  forth. 

.xxxiij.  Oyle  Soppys. — Take  a  gode  quantyte  of  Oynonys,  an  mynse  hem 
not  to  smale,  an  sethe  in  fayre  Water :  J'an  take  hem  vp,  an  take  a  gode 
quantite  of  Stale  Ale,  as  .iij.  galouns,  an  J'er-to  take  a  pynte  of  Oyle  fryid, 
an  caste  J^e  Oynonys  J'er-to,  an  let  boyle  alle  to-gederys  a  gode  whyle  ;  then 
caste  J'er-to  Safroune,  powder  Pepyr,  Sugre,  an  Salt,  an  serue  forth  alle  bote 
as  tostips,  'as  in  J'e  same  maner  for  a  Mawlard  &  of  a  capon,  &  hoc  qiicsre^ 

.xxxiv.  Char dewar don. — Take  Pere  "Wardonys,  an  sethe  hem  in'^yne  or 
in  fayre  water ;  J'an  take  an  grynd  in  a  morter,  an  drawe  hem  J'orwe  a  strayn- 
oure wyth-owte  ony  lycoure,  an  put  hem  in  a  potte  w/tA  Sugre  and 
clarifiyd  hony,  an  Canel  y-now,  an  lete  hem  boyle  ;  J'an  take  it  fro  J'e  fyre, 
an  let  kele,  an  caste  J'er-to  jolkys  of  Raw  eyroun,  tylle  it  be  Jjikke ;  &  caste 
J'er-to  pouder  Gyngere  y-now,  an  serue  it  in  manere  of  Fysshe  ;^  an  jif  if  it  be 
in  lente,  lef  J'e  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  lat  J'e  remenaunt  boyle  so  longe  tylle  it 
be  J'ikke,  as  J'ow  it  had  be  temp(?ryd  wyth  J^e  jolkys,  in  J'e  maner  of  charde 
quyncc  ;  an  so  serue  hem  in  maner  of  Eys. 

.XXXV.  Perys  en  Composte.— Take  TVyne  an  Canel,  &  a  gret  dele  of  Whyte 
Sugre,  an  set  it  on  J'e  fyre  &  hete  it  bote,  but  let  it  nowt  boyle,  an  draw  it 
J'orwe  a  straynoure  ;  J^an  take  fayre  Datys,  an  pyke  owt  J-e  stonys,  an  leche  hem 
alle  J'inne,  an  caste  J'er-to  ;  J'anne  take  Wardouys,  an  pare  hem  and  sethe  hem, 

'  If.  11.  -  'look  for  this  ;  see  this,'  generally  y.r. 

^  For  Ji>/s ;  see  Douce  MS.  No.  53,  and  the  end  of  this  recipe.    A.  also  reaisjisehe. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS.  13 

an  leche  hem  alle  J^inne,  &  caste  j^er-to  in-to  ]>e  Syryppe  :  Jeanne  take  a  lytii 
Sawndei-ys,  and  caste  ]>eT-to,  an  sette  it  on  ])e  fyre ;  an  jif  ]70w  hast  charde 
quynce,  caste  j^er-to  in  ]>e  boyling,  an  loke  J^at  it  stonde  wyl  with  Sugre,  an 
■vryl  lyid  wyth  Canel,  an  caste  Salt  J;er-to,  an  let  it  boyle ;  an  J^an  caste  yt 
on  a  treen  vessel,  &  lat  it  kele,  &  serue  f  [orth]. 

.xxxvj.  Vele,  kede,  or  henne  in  Bokenade. — Take  Tele,  Kyde,  or  Henne, 
an  boyle  hem  in  fayre  Water,  or  ellys  in  freysshe  brothe,  an  smyte  hem  in 
pecys,  an  pyke  hem  clene  ;  an  )7an  draw  ]>e  same  brothe  J^orwe  a  straynoure, 
an  caste  J'er-to  Percely,  Sawge,  Tsope,  Maces,  Clowys,  an  let  boyle  tyl  J-e 
flesshe  be  y-now;  j^an  sette  it  from  j^e  fyre,  &  a-lye  it  vp  vritk  raw  jolkys  of 
eyroun,  &  caste  J^er-to  ponder  Gyngere,  Teriows,  Safroun,  &  Salt,  &  Jeanne 
seme  it  forth  for  a  gode  mete. 

'.xxxvij.  Autre  Vele  en  bokenade. — Take  Yele,  an  Make  it  clene,  and 
hakke  it  to  gobettys,  an  sethe  it ;  an  take  fat  brothe,  an  temper  vp  ]7ine 
Almaundys  j^at  ]>ou  hast  y-grounde,  an  lye  it  with  Flowre  of  Eys,  and  do 
j^er-to  gode  powder  of  Gyngere,  &  Galyngale,  Canel,  Maces,  Quybybis,  and 
Oynonys  y-mynsyd,  &  Eoysonys  of  coraunce,  &  coloure  yt  wyth  Safroun,  and 
put  ]7er-to  yin  Yele,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

•xxxviij.  Storion  in  brothe. — Take  fayre  Freysshe  Storgeoun,  an  choppe 
it  in  fayre  water;  ]janne  take  it  fro  )>e  fyre,  an  strayne  ]>e  brothe  j^orw  a 
straynoure  in-to  a  potte,  an  pyke  clene  ]>o  Fysshe,  an  caste  J^er-to  powder 
Pepir,  Clowes,  Maces,  Canel ;  &  Jeanne  take  fayre  Brede,  and  stepe  it  in  J?e 
same  lycowre,  &  caste  ]?er-to,  an  let  boyle  to-gederys,  &  caste  J^en  Safroun 
J^er-to,  Gyngere,  an  Salt,  &  Yynegre,  &  ]7anne  serue  it  forth  ynne.^ 

.1x1.^  Oystres  en  grauey. — Take  gode  Mylke  of  Altaaundys,  an  drawe  it 
wyth  Wyne  an  gode  Fysshe  broj^e,  an  sette  it  on  ]>e  fyre,  &  let  boyle ;  & 
caste  Jjer-to  Clowes,  Maces,  Sugre  an  powder  Gyngere,  an  a  fewe  parboylid 
Oynonys  y-mynsyd;  fan  take  fayre  Oystrys,  &  parboyle  hem  in  fayre  Water, 
&  caste  hem  ]7er-to,  an  lete  hem  boyle  to-gederys ;  &  jianne  serue  hem  foz-th. 

.xl.  Oystrys  in  gr«uy  bastard. — Take  grete  Oystiys,  an  schale  hem ;  an 
take  ]>e  water  of  ]7e  Oystrys,  &  ale,  an  brede  y-straynid,  an  J?e  water  also, 
an  put  it  on  a  potte,  an  Gyngere,  Sugre,  Saffron,  powder  pepir,  and  Salt, 
an  let  it  boyle  wyl ;  J^en  put  yn  J^e  Oystrys  J^er-to,  and  dresse  it  forth. 

.xlj.  Gelyne  i??  dubbatte. — Take  an  Henne,  and  rost  hure  almoste  y-now, 
an  choppe  hyre  in  fayre  pecys,   an  caste  her  on  a  potte ;  an  caste  J^er-to 
Freysshe  broj^e,  &  half  Wyne,  Clowes,  Maces,  Pepir,  Canelle,  an  stepe  it  with 
1  If.  11  bk.  2  jg_  in^Q  j^T^Q  dininjj-room.  ^  i.e.  i  from  xl. 


14     COOKERY  BOOK.  I.  HARLEIAN  MS,  279.  POTAGE  DYVERS. 

fe  Same  broj'e,  fayre  brede  &  Vynegre  :  an  whan  it  is  y-now,  serue  it 
forth. 

\xlij.  Conyng,  Mawlard,  in  gely  or  in  cyuey.  —  Take  Couynge,  Hen, 
or  Mawlard,  and  roste  hem  alle-most  y-now,  or  ellys  choppe  hem,  an  frye 
hem  in  fayre  Freysshe  grece  ;  an  frye  myncyd  Oynenons,  and  caste  alle  in-to 
jie  potte,  &  caste  Jier-to  fayre  Freysshe  brothe,  an  half  Wyne,  Maces,  Clowes, 
Powder  pepir,  Canelle ;  ]>an  take  fayre  Brede,  an  wyth  ])e  same  brothe  stepe, 
an  draw  it  ]>ovw  a  straynoure  wyth  vynegre;  an  whan  it  is  wyl  y-boylid, 
caste  pe  lycoure  J^er  to,  &  powder  Gyngere,  &  Salt,  &  sesyn  it  vp  an  seme 
f[orth]. 

.xliij.  Mortrewes  of  Fysshe. — Take  Gornard  or  Congere,  a-fore  ])e  navel 
wyth  ]>e  grece  (for  be-hynde  ]>e  navel  he  is  hery^  of  bonys),  or  Codlyng, 
J^e  lyuer  an  j^e  Spaune,  an  sethe  it  y-now  in  fayre  "Water,  and  pyke  owt  ]>e 
bonys,  and  grynde  ]>e  fysshe  in  a  Morter,  an  tem-per  it  vp  wyth  Almaunde 
Mylke,  an  caste  ]7er-to  gratyd  brede ;  Jjan  take  yt  vp,  an  put  it  on  a  fayre 
potte,  an  let  boyle ;  ]>an  caste  j^er-to  Sugre  and  Salt,  an  serue  it  forth  as 
other  Mortrewys.     And  loke  J7at  jjow  caste  Gyngere  y-now  a-boue. 

.xliiij.  Mortrewys  de  Fleyssh. — Take  Porke,  an  sej^e  it  wyl;  Jeanne  take 
it  vppe  and  puUe  a- way  J>e  Swerde,^  an  pyke  owt  ]7e  bonys,  an  hakke  it  and 
grynd  it  smal ;  j^enne  take  ]>e  sylf  brothe,  &  tem-per  it  with  ale  ;  ]>en.  take 
fayre  gratyd  brede,  &  do  J^er-to,  an  se]>e  it,  an  coloure  it  with  SafFroun,  &  lye 
it  with  jolkys  of  eyroun,  &  make  it  euen  Salt,  &  caste  ponder  Gyngere, 
a-bouyn  on  J7e  dysshe. 

.xlv. — For  to  make  Blawnche  Perrye. — Take  J^e  Whyte  of  the  lekys,  an 
sefe  hem  in  a  potte,  an  presse  hem  vp,  &  hacke  he/»  smal  on  a  bord.  An 
nym  gode  Almaunde  Mylke,  an  a  lytil  of  Eys,  an  do  alle  jjes  to-gederys,  an 
sej^e  an  stere  it  wyl,  an  do  ]>eT-to  Sugre  or  hony,  an  dresse  it  yn ;  Jeanne 
take  powderd  Elys,  an  se]>e  hem  in  fayre  Water,  and  broyle  hem,  an  kytte 
hom  in  long  pecys.  And  ley  .ij.  or  .iij.  in  a  dysshe,  and  putte  j^in*  perrey 
in  a-no]7er  dysshe,  ^an  serue  J^e  to  dysshys  to-gederys  as  Venysou??  with 
Furmenty. 

.xlvj.  Poumes. — Take  fayre  buttys  of  A^ele  &  he  we  hem,  and  grynd  hem 
in  a  morter,  &  wyth  ]>e  jolkys  of  eyroun,  &  with  ]>e  whyte  of  eyroun ; 
an  caste  }eY-to  powder  Pepyr,  Canel,  Gyngere,  Clowys  powj^^r,  &  datys 
y-mynced,  Safroun,  &  raysonys  of  Coraunce,  an  sethe  in  a  panne  wyth  fayre 
water,  an  let  it  boyle ;  fan  wete  ]>m  handys  in  Eaw  eyroun,  j^an  take  it  an 
1  leaf  12.  -  Hairy.  ^  j^inj^  gkin.  i  xhine.  »  If.  12  bk. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS.  15 

rolle  it  in  j^ia  hondys,  smaller  or  gretter,  as  ]70w  wolt  haue  it,  an  caste  it 
in-to  boyling  water,  an  let  boyle  y-now  ;  l^an  putte  it  on  a  Spate  round, 
an  lete  hem  rosty ;  J^en  take  flowre  an  jolkys  of  eyroun,  an  J^e  whyte,  an 
draw  hem  ]>oi'we  a  straynowre,  an  caste  ]7er-to  ponder  Gyngere,  an  mako 
J^in^  bature  grene  v^ith  ]>e  lus  of  Percely,  or  Malwys,  in  tyme  of  jere  Whete, 
an  caste  on  jie  pommys  as  ]>ej  turne  a-boute,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.xlvij.  Cawdelle  Ferry. — Take  plkys  of  eyi-oun  Raw,  y-tryid  fro  the 
whyte  ;•  jmn  take  gode  wyne,  and  warme  it  on  j^e  potte  on  a  fayre  Fyre,  an 
caste  ]7er-on  plkys,  and  stere  it  wyl,  but  let  it  nowt  boyle  tylle  it  be  ]7ikke ; 
and  caste  jjer-to  Sugre,  Safroun,  &  Salt,  Maces,  Gelofres,  an  Galyngale 
y-grounde  smal,  &  flowre  of  Canelle;  &  whan  ]>ovf  dressyst  yn,  caste  blanke 
ponder  ))er-on. 

.xlviij.  Tayloures. — Take  a  gode  mylke  of  Almaundys  y-draw  ■with  "Wyne 
an  Water,  an  caste  hym  in-to  a  potte,  and  caste  gret  Roysouns  of  corauns. 
Also  mencyd  Datys,  Clowes,  Maces,  Pouder  Pepir,  Canel,  Safroun,  &  a  gode 
dele  Salt,  &  let  boyle  a  whyle  ;  }an  take  it  and  ly^  it  wyth  Flowre  of 
Rys,  or  ellys  w/tA  Brede  y-gratyd,  &  caste  |7er-to  Sugre,  &  serue  forth  lyke 
Mortrewys,  &  caste  pouder  of  Gyngere  a-boue  y-now. 

.xlix.  Bryndons. — Take  "Wyn,  &  putte  in  a  potte,  an  clarifiyd  hony,  an 
Saunderys,  pepir,  Safroun,  Clowes,  Maces,  &  Quybibys,  &  mynced  Datys, 
Pynys  and  Roysonys  of  Corauns,  &  a  lytil  Vynegre,  ^&  sethe  it  on  ]>o  fyre  ;  an 
sethe  fygys  in  Wyne,  &  grynde  hem,  &  draw  hem  j^orw  a  straynoure,  &  caste 
fer-to,  an  lete  hem  boyle  alle  to-gederys ;  l^an  take  fayre  flowre,  Safroun, 
Sugre,  &  Fayre  Water,  ande  make  j7er-of  cakys,  and  let  hem  be  )7inne  Inow ; 
J^an  kytte  hem  y  lyke  lechyngys,*  an  caste  hem  in  fayre  Oyle,  and  fry  hem 
a  lytil  whyle ;  Jeanne  take  hem  owt  of  j^e  panne,  an  caste  in-to  a  vesselle 
■with  ]>e  Syrippe,  &  so  serue  hem  forth,  \ie  bryndonys  an  fe  Sirippe,  in  a 
dysshe  ;  &  let  ]ie  Sirippe  be  rennyng,  &  not  to  styf. 

.1.  A  potage  on  fysshday. — Take  an  Make  a  styf  Poshote  of  Milke  an 
Ale;  Jjan  take  &  draw  J^e  croddys  J^orw  a  straynoure  wyth^  whyte  Swete 
Wyne,  or  ellys  Rochelle  Wyne,  &  make  it  sum-what  rennyng  an  sum-what 
stondyng,  &  put  Sugre  a  gode  quantyte  ]7er-to,  or  hony,  but  nowt  to  moche  ; 
J^an  hete  it  a  lytil,  &  serue  it  forth  al  a-brode  in  Ipe  dysshys ;  an  straw  on 
Canel,  &  Gyngere,  and  jif  [l^ou]  haue  Blank  powder,  straw  on  and  kepe  it 
a[s]  whyte  as  yt  may  be,  &  jjan  serue  f  [orth]. 

1  Thine.  2  Lye;  allay.  3  leaf  13. 

*  long  thin  strips.  *  MS.  with  wyth. 


16  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS. 

.Ij.  Cawdelle  de  Almaunde. — Take  Raw  Almaundys,  &  grynde  hem,  an 
temper  hem  vp  with  gode  ale,  and  a  lytil  Water,  and  draw  it  jjorw  a  strayn- 
oure  in-to  a  fayre  potte,  &  late  it  boyle  a  whyle :  &  caste  j^er-to  Safroun, 
Sugre,  and  Salt,  &  j^an  serue  it  forth  al  hotte  in  maner  of  potage. 

.lij.  Gyngaudre. — Take  |»e  Lyuerys  of  Codlyngys,  Haddok,  Elys,  or  J^e  Hake 
hed,  or  Freysshe  Mylweli  hedys,  J^e  Pouches,  &  ]>g  Lyuerys,  an  sethe  hem 
in  fayre  Water ;  J7an  take  hem  vp  on  a  fayre  bord,  &  mynce  smal  ]?e  pouches  ; 
]7an  take  gode  freysshe  brothe  of  Samoun,  or  Turbut,  or  of  Elys,  &  cast  ]>e 
mynced  pouches  j^er-to,  &  ponder  Pepyr,  &  let  boyle  ;  J^an  take  ])e  brothe, 
j^e  pouches  &  ]>e  lyuerys  wer  sodoun  iu,  m  a  stipe  ^  or  on  fayre  brede,  &  draw 
]>OYW  a  straynoure,  &  j^an  mynce  ]>e  lyuer  in  fayre  pecys ;  &  -whan  j>e  pouches 
haue  boylid,  an  ]>e  licoure,  caste  ]>e  leuer  )7er-to,  an  let  boyle  a  whyle :  j^an 
caste  )7er-to  j^e  lyuerys,  "Wyne,  Venegre,  Safroun,  Salt,  &  late  it  boyle  a  whyle, 
and  serue  forth  |iat  rennyng. 

.Liij.  Rapeye. — Take  half  Eygys  &  halfe  Eoysonys,  and  boyle  hem  in 
"Wyne ;  |ian  bray  hem  in  a  morter,  an  draw  wyth  the  same  lycoure  Jiorw  a 
straynoure  so  )jikke  J^at  it  be  stondynge ;  Jeanne  take  Roysons  of  Corauns, 
Pynys,  Clowys,  Maces,  Sugre  of  Siprys,  an  caste  J^er-to :  j^an  putte  it  on  a 
potte ;  ]'an  take  Saunderys  a  fewe,  Pepir,  Canel,  an  a  litel  Safroun ;  an  jif  it 
be  nojt  stondyng,  take  [a]  lytil  flowre  of  Amidons,  an  draw  it  j'orw  a  strayn- 
woure,  an  caste  Jjcr-to  Salt,  &  serue  forth  stondyng. 

.Liiij.  Rapeye. — Take  almaundys,  an  draw  a  gode  mylke  J^er-of,  and  take 
Datys  an  mynce  hem  smal,  an  put  j^er-on  y-now ;  take  Raw  Appelys,  an  pare 
hem  and  stampe  hem,  an  drawe  hem  vppe  with  wyne,  or  with  draf  of 
Almaundys,  or  bojie ;  ]?an  caste  ponder  of  Gyngere,  Canel,  Maces,  Clowes, 
&  caste  ]7er-on  Sugre  y-now  ;  J^an  take  a  quantyte  of  flowre  of  Rys,  an 
]7rowe  Jier-on,  &  make  it  chargeaunt,  an  coloure  it  wyth  Safroun,  an  with 
Saunderys,  an  serue  forth ;  an  strawe  Canel  a-boue. 

.Iv.  luschelle  of  Fysshe. — Take  fayre  Frye  of  Pyke,  and  caste  it  raw  on  a 
morter,  an  caste  J^er-to  gratid  brede,  an  bray  hem  as  smale  as  )iow  mayste ; 
&  jif  it  be  to  stondyng,  caste  j^er-to  Almaunde  mylke,  an  bray  hem  to- 
gederys,  an  stere  it  to-gederys,  &  caste  j^er-to  a  littel  Safroun  &  Salt,  an 
whyte  Sugre,  an  putte  al  in  a  fayre  Treen  boUe,  &  toyle^  it  to-gederys  wyth 
)?in  bond,  an  loke  j^at  it  be  nojt  to  chargeaunt,  but  as  a  man  may  pore  it 
out  of  ]>e  bolle ;  and  ]>aji  take  a  Chafoure  or  a  panne,  an  caste  Jier-in  fayre 
grauey  of  pyke  or  of  Freysshe  Samoun,  y-di'aw  ]>oyw  a  straynoure,  &  sette 
1  ?  meaning.  ^  jf,  13  ^t,  3  Xiville  in  Douce  MS. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS.  17 

'  it  on  ]>e  fyre ;  Ipanne  take  fayre  Percely  an  Sawge,  an  caste  ]7er-to,  an  lat  it 
boyle,  an  caste  jjer-to  a  lytil  Safroim  an  Salt ;  and  wlian  it  hath  y-boylid 
a  whyle,  store  it  faste,  an  caste  j^e  Stuff e  f^er-to,  an  stere  it  euermore ;  an 
"whan  alia  is  oute  of  J^e  bolle,  caste  a  litil  an  a  litil  into  ]>e  chafoure,  or 
j>e  panne ;  stere  it  soffter  an  sofftere,  tylle  it  come  to-gedere  ;  ]7an  gader  it 
to-gederys  -with  a  ladelle  or  a  Skyraoure,  softe,  tille  it  be  round  to-gedere ; 
Jeanne  take  it  fro  j^e  fyre,  an  sctte  ]>e  vesselle  on  a  fewe  colys,  an  late  it 
wexe  styf  be  hys  owne  acord ;  J^an  serue  forth. 

•Ivj.  Charlette. — Take  Mylke,  an  caste  on  a  potte,  w^tA  Salt  and  Safroun 
y-now ;  J^an  hewe  fayre  buttys  of  Calf  or  of  Porke,  nojt  to  fatte,  alle  smal,  an 
kaste  Jjer-to  ;  J^an  take  Eyroun,  j>e  whyte  an  the  jolke,  &  draw  ]7orw  a  stray- 
noure  ;  an  whan  ]>e  lycoure  ys  in  boyling,  caste  )7er-to  l^in  Eyroun  and  Ale, 
&  styre  it  tylle  it  Crodde ;  J^an  presse  it  a  lytil  with  a  platere,  an  serue 
forth  ;  sane,  caste  j^er-on  broj^e  of  Beeff  or  of  Capoun. 

.Ivij.  Charlet  a-forcyd  ryally. — Take  gode  Mylke  of  Almaunde ;  take 
tender  Porke,  an  hew  it  smal,  an  bray  it  on  a  morter ;  take  eyroun,  an  di-aw 
J'orw  a  cloj^e ;  temper  vppe  J'in  flesshe  jjer-with,  an  caste  on  ]?e  potte ;  take 
j^e  mylke,  an  sette  it  ouer  ]>e  fyre  ;  sesyn  it  wyth  Salt  an  Safroun  caste  j^er-on  ; 
boyle  it,  an  when  yt  komyth  on  by,  a-lye  it  yvith  wyne,  an  sette  it  a-doun  ; 
take  vppe  an  ley  it  on  a  clo]7e,  an  presse  it  a  lytil ;  ondo  it  a-jen,  &  caste 
]7er-on  pouder  Gyngere,  Galyngale,  Sugre  y-now;  menge  it  to-gederys,  presse 
it  a-ajen,  sejie  ^  j>e  brojie  wyl ;  take  styf  Almaunde  mylke  y-temperyd  with 
Freysshe  brothe,  &  caste  J^er-on  Safltroun  an  Sugre  y-now,  an  a  lytil  Salt, 
&  boyle  it,  ])an  take  and  set  it  owt ;  leche  now  j^in  mete,  &  ley  J^er-of  in  a 
dysshe ;  take  ]>b  sewe,  &  ley  a-boue;  take  Maces  &  Sugre,  &  caste  ]7er-on,  & 
serue  f[orth]. 

Mviij.  Let  lory. — Take  Mylke,  an  sette  it  ouer  ]>e  fyre;  take  Salt  & 
Safroun,  an  caste  ]7er-to  ;  take  Eyroun,  ]7e  pike  an  J^e  Whyte  y-strainyd  a  lyte,^ 
&  caste  it  j^er-to ;  whan  ]>e  Mylke  his  skaldyng  bote,  caste  ]!e  stuf  ]7er-to, 
an  Jienne  stere  yt  tyll  it  crodde ;  and  jif  ])o\i  wolt  haue  it  a-forsyd  with 
lyjt  coste,  Take  Mylke,  &  make  it  skaldyng  bote,  &  caste  ]7er-to  Paw  pikes  of 
Eyroun,  Sugre,  ponder  Gyngere,  Clowes,  Maces,  an  let  not  fully  boyle ;  &  so 
bote,  drcsse  it  forth,  an  ley  it  on  ]>e  crodde  ;  &  jif  ]>o\i  wolt  a-forse  it  in  maner 
of  charlet,  do  it  in  fasty??g  dayis,  &  serue  it  forth. 

.lix.  Furmenty  -with  purpaysse. — Make  J^in  Eurmenty  in  ]>e  maner  as  I 
sayd  be-fore,  saue  temper  it  vp  with  Almauuden,  Mylke,  &  Sugre,  &  Safroun, 
Meaf  14.      -  ^  US.  snje.  Meaf  14  bk.  *    li/te  =  \me. 

2 


18  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN   MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS. 

]?an  take  Jjin  Purpays  as  a  Freysshe  SamouB,  &  sethe  it  in  fap'e  Water;  & 
■when  he  is  I-sothe  y-now,  bawde  it  &  leche  it^  in  fayre  pecys,  &  serue  wyth 
Purmenty  in  hote  Water. 

.Ix.  Trype  of  Turbut  or  of  Codelynge. — Take  j^e  Mawes  of  Turbut, 
Haddok,  or  Codelyng,  &  pyke  hem  clene,  &  skrape  hem,  &  Wasshem  clene, 
and  parboyle  hem  in  gode  Freysshe  bro]je  of  Turbut  or  Samoun,  or  Pyke  ;  J'an 
kytte  Percely  smalle,  &  caste  ]7er-to,  &  kytte  ])e  Mawys  of  a  peny  brede,  & 
caste  alle  togederys  in-to  a  potte,  &  let  it  boyle  to-gederys ;  &  whan  J7ey  bin 
sojiin  tendyr,  caste  j^er-to  Safroun,  &  Salt,  &  Veryous,  &  pouder  Gynger^,  & 
serue  f[orth]. 

•Ixj.  A  goos  in  hogepotte. — Take  a  Goos,  &  make  hure  clene,  &  hacke  hyre 
to  gobettys,  &  put  yn  a  potte,  &  Water  to,  &  sethe  to-gederys ;  ]>an  take 
Pepir  &  Brennyd  brede,  or  Blode  y-boylyd,  &  giynd  y-fere  Gyngere  & 
Galyngale  &  Comyn,  &  temper  vppe  'with  Ale,  &  putte  it  per-to ;  &  mynce 
Oynonys,  &  frye  hem  ^in  freysshe  grece,  &  do  Jier-to  a  porcyon  of  Wyne. 

.Ixij.  Conyngys  in  graueye. — Take  Conyngys,  &  make  hem  clene,  & 
hakke  hem  in  gobettys,  &  sethe  hem,  oj^er  larde  hem  &  E-ost  hetn ;  &  Jeanne 
hakke  hem,  &  take  Almaundys,  &  grynde  hem,  &  temper  hem  vppe  with  gode 
Freysshe  brothe  of  Flesshe,  &  coloure  it  wyth  Safroun,  &  do  ]7er-to  a  porcyon 
of  flowre  of  Rys,  &  do  ]7er-to  J^en  pouder  Gyngere,  Galyngale,  Canel,  Sugre, 
Clowys,  Maces,  &  boyle  it  onys  &  se]>e  it;  ]>en  take  j^e  Conyngys,  iS:  putte 
]7er-0D,  &  dresse  it  &  serue  it  forth. 

.Ixiij.  Harys  in  Cyueye. — Take  Harys,  &  Fie  hem,  &  make  hem  clene,  an 
hacke  hem  in  gobettys,  &  sethe  hem  in  Water  &  Salt  a  lytylle ;  J^an  take 
Pepyr,  an  Safroun,  an  ISrede,  y-grounde  y-fere,  &  temper  it  wyth  Ale ;  ]7an 
take  Oynonys  &  Percely,  y-mynced  smal  to-gederys,  &  sethe  hem  be  hem 
self,  &  afterward  take  &  do  ])er-to  a  porcyon  of  Vynegre,  &  dresse  in. 

.Ixiiij.  Capoun  in  consewe. — Take  a  Capoun,  &  make  hem^  clene,  &  sethe 
hym  in  Water,  percely,  Sauereye  &  Salt ;  &  whan  he  his  y-now,  quarter  hym  ; 
Jjan  grynde  Almaundys,  &  temper  vppe  wyth  J^at  brothe  of  ]>e  Capoun;  or 
ellys  take  J^e  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  make  it  chargeaunt,  &  strayne  ]7e  Almaundys 
&  boyle  it ;  take  Sugre  a  goode  porcyouw,  &  do  l^er-yn ;  &  when  it  ys  y-boylid, 
ley  ])e  Capoun  in  j^e  dysshe,  &  put  ]7at  Sew  a-boue,  &  strawe  j^er-vppe-on 
Sugre,  &  send  it  yn  with  alman). 

.Ixv.  Hennys  in  bruette. — Take  ])e  hennys,  &  skalde  hem,  &  ope  hem,  & 
■wasshe  hem  clene,  &  smyte  hem  to  gobettys,  &  sethe  hem  wyth  fayre  porke ; 

1  leche  it,  repeated  in  MS.  *  leaf  15.  ^  ?for  hi/in;  but  see  p.  19,  No.  Ixxij. 


COOKKRY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS.  19 

fan  take  Pepyr,  Gyngere,  &  Brede,  y-grounde  y-fere,  and  temper  it  vppe 
■with  ]>e  same  brothe,  or  ale  draft,  &  coloure  it  with  Safrouw,  &  se]>e  it  to- 
gederys,  &  serue  forth. 

.Ixvj.  Bruette  Sareson. — Take  Almaundys  &  draw  a  gode  mylke  '&  flowre 
of  Rys,  &  Porke  &  Brawen  of  Capoun  y-sode,  or  Hennys  smale  y-grounde,  & 
boyle  it  y-fere,  &  do  in-to  j^e  mylke ;  &  J^an  take  pouder  Gyngere,  Sugre,  & 
caste  a-boue,  an  serue  forth. 

.Ixvij.  Bruet  of  Almaynne. — Take  Almaundys,  &  draw  a  gode  mylke  J^er-of 
vrith  Water ;  take  Capoun,  Conyngys  or  Pertriches ;  smyte  j^e  Capoun,  or  kede, 
or  Chykonys,  Conyngys  :  ])G  Pertriche  shal  ben  hoi :  Jian  blaunche  ]>e  Fleyssh, 
an  caste  on  J^e  mylke ;  take  larde  &  [mynce]  it,  &  caste  j^er-to ;  take  an 
mynce  Oynonys  &  caste  j^er-to  y-nowe,  do  Clowes  &  smal  Poysonys  j^er-to ; 
caste  hoi  Safroun  J^er-to,  Jian  do  it  to  ]>e  fyre,  &  stere  it  wyl ;  whan  ]'e 
fleysshe  ys  y-now,  sette  it  on  ])e  fyre,  an  do  J^er-to  Sugre  y-now  ;  take  pouder 
Gyngere,  Galyngale,  Canel,  &  temper  ]>e  pouder  wyth  Vynegre,  &  caste 
J7er-to ;  sesyn  it  with  salt,  &  serue  forth. 

.Ixviij.  Bruet  of  Almaynne  in  lente.  —  Take  fyne  J^ikke  Mylke  of 
Almaundys ;  take  datys,  an  mynce  hem  smal  ]7er-on ;  take  Sugre  y-nowe,  & 
straw  J;er-on,  &  a  lytil  flowre  of  Rys  ;  sylt,"  &  serue  forth  whyte,  &  loke  jmt 
it  be  rennyng. 

.Ixix.  Whyte  Mortrewes. — Take  Almaunde  Mylke  &  Floure  of  Rys,  & 
boyle  it  y-fere ;  ]7enne  take  Capoun  &  Hennys,  &  sethe  hem  and  bray  hem  as 
smal  as  ]>o\i  may,  &  ly^  it  with  an  Ey^  or  to,  &  also  a-lye  it  vppe  with  |»e 
mylke  of  Almaundys,  &  make  hem  chargeaunt  as  Mortrewes  schuld  be,  & 
dresse  hem  forth,  &  caste  Canel  a-boue,  or  Gyngere.    Blanke  pouder  is  best. 

.Ixx.  Fauntempere. — Take  Almaunde  Mylke,  &  Floure  of  Rys,  Sugre,  an 
gode  pouj^er  Gyngere,  Galyngale,  Canel,  &  gode  Erbys,  and  stampe  hem 
[&]  grynd  hem  ]7orw  a  cloj^e,  &  caste  j^er-to,  &  boyle  yt,  an  a-lye  it  wyth 
jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  make  it  more  boyle ;  Jian  take  Maces,  Quybibes,  & 
Geloferys,  &  caste  J^er-to  whan  that  ]?ou  schalt  dresse  it  yn. 

Mxxj.  Murrey. — Take  Porke  an  Yele,  &  sethe  it,  &  grynd  it,  &  draw  it 
with  Jie  self  brothe  ;  J^en  take  bred  y-gratyd,  &  pouder  of  Gyngere  &  of 
Galyngale,  &  Hony,  an  caste  J^er-to,  &  boyle  it  y-fere  ;  &  make  it  chargeaunt, 
&  coloure  it  with  Saunderys  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.Ixxij.  Talbottys. — Take  an  Hare,  an  fle  hem  clene;  j^en  take  )e  blode,  & 
Brede,   an   Spycery,  an  giynde   y-fere,  &   draw  it  vppe  with  \ie   brothe; 

1  K.  15  bk.  »  ? sprinkle.  »  Allay;  mix.  *  Egg.  ^  leaf  16. 


20     COOKERY  BOOK,  I.  HARLEIAN  MS.  279.  POTAGE  DYVERS. 

]->an  take  "Wyne  or  Ale,  an  cast  J?er-to,  &  make  gobettys,  &  Jeanne  serue 
it  forth. 

.Ixxiij.  Conyngys  in  cyveye. — Take  Conyngys,  an  fle  hem,  &  sej'e  hem, 
&  make  lyke  fon  woklyst  make  a  sewe,  saue  alle-to-choppe  hem,  &  caste 
Safroun  &  Iyer  Jier-to,  &  Wyne. 

.Ixxiiij .  Arbolettys. — Take  Milke,  Boter  an  Chese,  &  boyle  in  fere  ;  J>en 
take  eyroun,  &  cast  jier-to ;  ]>an  take  Percely  &  Sawge  &  hacke  it  smal, 
&  take  ponder  Gyngere  &  Galyngale,  and  caste  it  ];er-to,  and  J^an  serue 
it  forth. 

.Ixxv.  Spyneye. — Take  ]>e  FlowJ^erys  of  Hawthorun ;  boyle  hem  &  presse 
hem,  bray  hem  smal,  temper  hem  vppe  wyth  Almaunde  Milke,  &  lye  it  with 
Abyndouw  ^  &  Gratyd  brede  &  flowre  of  Rys ;  take  Sugre  y-now  &  put  J^er-to, 
or  Hony  in  defawte,  &  colowre  it  "svyth  ]>e  same  ]>at  ]>e  flowrys  ben,  &  serue 
f[orth]. 

.Ixxvj.  Brasele. — Take  Dace,  Troutys,  &  Eoche,  an  roste  hem  on  a 
gredelle ;  j^an  se|7e  in  Wyne,  &  caste  Veryous  per-to,  powder  of  Gyngere,  & 
Galyngale,  &  dresse  it  yn. 

.Ixxvij.  Crem  de  Coloure. — Take  an  make  j^icke  Milke  of  Almaundys,  & 
do  it  in  a  potte,  &  sethe  it  oner  j^e  fyre  ;  Jian  take  a  fayre  Canvas,  an  put  it 
]'er-on,  &  late  renne  out  ]>e  Water ;  jjen  take  ]ie  halfyndele,  &  put  it  in  a  pot 
of  er]>e ;  |'en  take  the  oj^er  halfyndele,  &  parte  it  [in]  to,^  &  make  ]ie  half 
jelow,  &  do  J'er-yn  Wyn,  Sugre,  Clowes,  Maces,  powder  of  Canelle  ;  take 
\_hlank  in  MS.]  &  grynd  a  lytel  in  a  morter ;  ^j^an  temper  it  vppe  wyth 
almaunde  mylke,  &  do  eueiy  of  hem  in  a  potte,  an  loke  J'at  it  be  y-like 
chargeaunt,  &  sette  it  ouer  ]>e  iyce,  an  boyle  it  a  lytyl,  an  serue  forth. 

.Ixxviij.  Colouryd  Sew  with-owt  fyre. — Take  fowre  pounde  of  Almaundys, 
&  ley  in  Water  ouer  cue,  an  blanche  hem,  and  on  j^e  morwe  grynde  hem  ryth 
wyl,  an  draw  J^er-of  a  Jiicke  mylke;  ]7an  take  Rys,  and  wasshem  clene,  an 
grynd  hem  wyl,  &  draw  hem  vppe  wyth  fe  Mylke  ]7orw  a  straynoure,  an  do 
it  on  a  bolle,  &  parte  it  in  fe  vesselle,  an  do  in  al  whyte  Sugre,  an  euery 
vesselle  Clowes,  Maces,  Quybibes,  &  pouder  Canelle ;  An  lete  ]>at  on  party 
ben  whyte,  \iat  oj^er  jelow,  &  j^at  o]7er  grene  with  Percely ;  And  ley  of  euery 
a  leche*  in  a  dysshe,  an  loke  J^at  Mylke  be  temperyd  wyth  wyne,  an  j^at* 
ojjer  with  Rede  wyn. 

.Ixxix.  Apple  Muse. — Take  Appelys  an  sethe  hem,  an  Serge®  hem  ]?orwe 
a  Sefe  in-to  a  potte  ;  Jeanne  take  Almaunde  Mylke  &  Hony,  an  caste  j^er-to,  an 

1  Amydon.  ^  Two.  »  If.  16  bk.  *  a  strip.  =  MS.  >a«.  «  Sift, 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS.  21 

gratid  Brede,  Safroun,  Saunderys,  &  Salt  a  lytil,  &  caste  all  in  J^e  potte  & 
lete  hem  sethe ;  &  loke  J^at  ]>ou  stere  it  wyl,  &  serue  it  forth, 

.Ixxx.  Salomene. — Take  gode  Wyne,  an  gode  pouder,  &  Brede  y-ground, 
an  sugre,  an  boyle  it  y-fere  ;  ]>an  take  Trowtys,  Bochys,  Perchys,  oj^er  Carpys, 
oj^er  alle  j^ese  y-fere,  an  make  hem  clene,  &  aftere  roste  hem  on  a  Grydelle ; 
J^an  hewe  hem  in  gobettys  :  whan  J>ey  ben  y-sothe,  fry  hem  in  oyle  a  lytil, 
]>en  caste  in  ]>e  brwet ;  and  whan  ]70u  dressist  it,  take  Maces,  Clowes, 
Quybibes,  Gelofiys,  an  cast  a-boue,  &  serue  forth. 

.Ixxxj.  Blaundysorye. — Take  Almaunde  Mylke,  an  flowre  of  Rys,  and 
brawn  of  Capounys  or  of  hennys,  &  pouder  Gyngere,  &  boyle  it  y-fere,  & 
make  it  chargeaunt ;  an  whan  j>o\i  di-essest  yn,  nym  Maces,  Quybibes,  &  caste 
a-boue,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

Mxxxij.  Blamang. — Take  Rys,  an  lese  ^  hem  clene,  &  wasshe  hem  clene  ia 
flake  Water,  &  j^an  sethe  hem  in  Watere,  &  aftyrward  in  Almaunde  Mylke, 
&  do  ]7er-to  Brawn  of  ]>e  Capoun  aftyrward  in-to  a-noj^er  almaunde  Mylke, 
an  tese  it  smal  sumdele  w/tA  a  pyn,  an  euer  as  it  wolt  caste^  j^er-to,  stere  it 
wel ;  nym  Sugre  and  caste  J^er-to,  j^en  make  it  chargeaunt ;  ]>en  take  blawn- 
chyd  Almaundys,  an  frye  hem,  an  sette  hem  a-boue,  whan  ]>ou  seruyst  ynne  ; 
&  jif  jjou  wolt,  ]>o\i  myjte  departe  hem  w/tA  a  Cawdelle  Ferry  y-wreten* 
before  [No.  xlvij.  p.  15,  and  cxsxix.  p  31],  an  J^an  serue  forth. 

.Ixxxiij.  Vyaund  de  cyprys  bastarde. — Take  gode  wyne,  &  Sugre  next 
AftyrAvard,  &  caste  to-gedere  ;  j^enne  take  whyte  Gyngere,  and  Galyngale,  & 
Canel  fayre  y-mynced  ;  Jien  take  luse  of  Percile  &  "Flowre  of  Bys,  &  Brawn 
of  Capoun  &  of  Chykonnys  I-grounde,  &  caste  )>er-to  ;  An  coloure  it  wyth 
Safroun  &  Saundeiys,  an  a-ly  it  with  pYkjs  of  Ep-oun,  &  make  it  chargeaunt ; 
an  whan  ]>ou  dressest  it  yn,  take  Maces,  Clowes,  Quybibes,  and  straw  a-boue, 
&  serue  forth. 

.Ixxxiiij.  Vyaund  de  ciprys  Eyalle. — Take  ]>e  to  deP  jolkys  of  eyron, 
]7e  jjridde  dele  Hony ;  take  Clowes  &  kutte  hem  ;  take  Boysonys,  tak  brawn  of 
Capoun,  &  hewe  it  smal ;  caste  al  in  a  potte,  &  lat  boyle  &  stere  it  wyl ;  take 
wyne  an  boyle  hem,  &  make  a  Syryppe ;  take  of  ^  ]>e  potte  al  a-bowte,  ]>er  as 
it  hangyth,  &  late  it  boyle  wyl  tille  it  be  as  chargeaunt  as  it  may ;  take  ]>m 
))ombe''  &  pylt^  jjer-on,  &  jif  it  cleuey,  let  it  boyle,  &  jif  it  nowt,  sette  it 
owt  a-non  in  a  clen  bolle,  an  wete  j^in  bolle  in  ]>e  Syrippe,  and  caste  Jiin 
mete  J^er-on ;  &  whan  )70W  dressist  ]>i  mete,  leche  it  &  caste  j^in'  Syryppe 
a-bouyn  vppe-on,  &  serue  forth. 

1  If.  17  {?  BlamcaiffeT).  ^  pick.  ^  g-tick.  *  "Written. 

6  Two  parts.  e  off,  7  Thumb.  ^  put_  o  Thy. 


22  COOKERY   BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS. 

.Ixxxv.  Gaylede. — Take  Alraaunde  Mylke  &  Flowre  of  Rys,  &  do  ])er-to 
Sugre  or  Hony,  &  Powder  Gyngere  &  Galyngale ;  |ieu  take  figys,  'an  kerue 
hem  a-to,  or  Eoysonys  y-hole,'  or  hard  Wastel  y-dicyd^  and  coloure  it  with 
Saunderys,  &  sethe  it  &  dresse  hem  yn. 

•Ixxxvj.  Ry.s. — Take  a  porcyoun  of  Rys,  &  pyke  hem  clene,  &  sethe  hem 
"welle,  &  late  hem  kele ;  j^en  take  gode  Mylke  of  Almaundys  &  do  Jier-to,  & 
sejje  &  stere  hem  wyl;  &  do  Jjer-to  Sugre  an  hony,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.Ixxxvij.  Maumenye  ryalle.— Take  Vernage,  oj^er  strong  Wyne  of  J;e 
beste  ]7at  a  man  may  fynde,  an  putte  it  on  a  potte,  &  caste  J^er-to  a  gode 
quantyte  of  ponder  Canelle,  &  sette  it  on  ])e  fyre,  an  jif  it  an  hete ;  &  Jeanne 
wrynge  it  soft  jjorw  a  straynoure,  jiat  J^e  draf  go  nowt  owte,  &  put  on  a 
fayre  potte,  &  pyke  fayre  newe  pynys,  &  wasshe  hem  clene  in  Wyn,  &  caste 
a  gode  quantyte  j^er-to,  &  take  whyte  Sugi-e  J>er-to,  as  moche  as  J7e  lycoure 
is,  &  caste  Jier-to ;  &  draw  a  few  Sawnderys  wyth  strong  wyne  ]7orwe  a  stray- 
noure, an  caste  J^er-to,  &  put  alle  on  on''  potte,  &  caste  J'er-to  Clowys,  a  gode 
quantyte,  &  sette  it  on  ]>e  fyre,  &  jif  it  a  boyle ;  j^en  take  Almaundys,  & 
draw  hem  w/tA  mythty  Wyne ;  &  at  J^e  firste  boyle  ly  it  vppe  yvith  Ale,  &  jif 
it  a  boyle,  &  sette  it  on  fe  fyre,  and  caste  ]?er-to  tesyd  brawn,  (of  ^  defaute  of 
Pertriche  or  Capoun,)  a  gode  quantyte  of  tiyid  Gyngere  perase,^  &  sesyn  it 
vppe  Wit/i  pouder  Gyngere, -&  Salt  &  Safroun  ;  &  jif  it  is  to  stondyng,  a-ly  it 
with  Vernage  or  swete  Wyne,  &  dresse  it  Plat  yvith  ]>e  backe  of  a  Sawcere  in 
]>e  Yernage  or  myjthty  Wyne,  &  loke  j^at  J^ou  haue  Sugre  y-nowe,  &  serue 
forth  hote. 

.Ixxxviij .  Mammenye  bastarde.  —Take  a  potelle  of  Clarifiyd  Hony,  &  a 
pounde  of  Pynys,  &  a  pounde  of  Eoysouns  Coraunce,  &  [a]  pound  of  Saunderys, 
&  pouder  canelle,  &  .ij.  galouns  of  Wyne  or  Ale,  &  a  pound  of  Pepir,  &  caste 
alle  on  a  potte,  &  skym  yt ;  J^an  take  .iij.  pounde  of  Amyndons,  &  a  galon 
of  Wyne,  &  a  gode  galon  of  Venegre,  &  let  stepe  vp  to-gederys,  &  draw  j^orw 
a  straynoure ;  ''an  whan  ]>e  potte  boylith,  caste  j^e  lycoure  J'er-to,  an  lat  it  be 
alle  stondyng ;  ]7an  take  pouder  Gyngere,  Salt  &  Safron,  an  sesyn  it  vppe,  an 
serue  alle  flat  on  a  dysshe,  aH  hote,  an  caste  pouder  Gyngere  ]7er-on,  an  serue 
f[orth]. 

.Ixxxix.  Elys  in  Gauncelye. — Take  Elys,  an  fle  hem,  &  sethe  hem  in 
Water,  an  caste  a  lytil  Salt  J^er-to ;  Jian  take  Brede  y-Skaldyd,  an  grynd  it, 
an  temper  it  with  ]>e  brothe  an  with  Ale  •  j^an  take  Pepir,  Gyngere,  an 
Safroune,  an  grynd  alle  y-fere ;  Jian  neme  Oynonys,  an  Percely,  an  boyle 

^  If.  17  bk.  ^  Punstoned.         ^  diced,  cut  into  small  squares. 

*  In  one.  *  j^,  6  ?  nieaniug.  ''  If.  18. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS.  23 

it  in  a  possenet  wel,  |7en  caste  alle  to-gederys,  an  sethe  y-fere  &  serue 
f[orth]. 

.Ixxxx.  Hennys  in  Gauncelye. — Take  Hennys,  an  roste  hem ;  take  Mylke 
an  Garleke,  an  grynd  it,  an  do  it  in  a  panne,  an  hewe  |?in  hennys  ]7er-on  -with 
jolkys  of  ep-on,  an  coloure  it  -with  Safrouw  an  Mylke,  an  serue  forth. 

.Ixxxxj.  Vyolette. — Nym  Almaunde  Mylke,  an  flowre  of  Rys,  and  ponder 
Gyngere,  Galyngale,  Pepir,  Datis,  Fygys,  &  Rasonys  y-corven,  an  coloure  it 
•with  Safroun,  an  boyle  it  &  make  it  chargeaunt ;  an  whan  ])ou  dressyste,  take 
]>e  flowres,  an  hew  hem,  an  styre  it  };er-w»tA ;  nyme  ]>e  braunchys  -with  ]>e 
flowres,  an  sette  a-boue  and  serue  it  Forth. 

•Ixxxxij.  Oystrys  in  bruette. — Take  an  schene'  Oystrys,  an  kepe  J^e  water 
J^at  cometh  of  hem,  an  strayne  it,  an  put  it  in  a  potte,  &  Ale  j^er-to,  an  a  lytil 
brede  ]7er-to ;  put  Gyngere,  Canel,  Ponder  of  Pepir  j^er-to,  Safroun  an  Salt ; 
an  whan  it  is  y-now  al-moste,  putte  on  Jiin  Oystrys :  loke  J^at  ]>ej  ben  wyl 
y-wasshe  for'^  J^e  schullys :   &  J7an  serue  forth. 

.Ixxxxiij.  Walkys^  in  bruette. — Take  [Walkys]  an  sethe  in  Ale,  fen 
pyke  he/«  clene ;  j^an  wasshem  in  Water  an  Salt  be  hem-self,  &  fyrst  wyth 
Ale  &  Salt,  an  do  so  whole  j^ey  ben  slepyr* ;  J^en  putte  hem  in  ^  Vynegre,  an 
ley  Perceli  a-boue,  an  serue  ynne. 

.Ixxxxiiij.  Tenche  in  bruette. — Take  j^e  Tenche,  an  sethe  hem  &  roste 
hem,  an  grynde  Pepir  an  Safroun,  Bred  and  Ale,  &  tempore  wyth  j^e  brothe, 
an  boyle  it ;  Jien  take  jie  Tenche  y-rostyd,  an  ley  hym  on  a  chargeoure ;  J7an 
ley  on  j^e  sewe  a-boue. 

.Ixxxxv.  Tenche  in  cyueye. — Take  a  tenche,  an  skalde  hym,  roste  hym, 
grynde  Pepir  an  Safroun,  Brede  an  Ale,  &  melle  it  to-gederys  ;  take  Oynonys, 
hakke  hem,  an  frye  hem  in  Oyle,  &  do  hem  J^er-to,  and  messe  hem  forth. 

.Ixxxxvj.  Tenche  in  Sawce.  — Take  a  tenche  whan  he  is  y-sothe,  and 
ley  him  on  a  dysshe ;  take  Percely  &  Oynonys,  &  mynce  hem  to-gederys ; 
take  ponder  Pepir,  &  Canelle,  &  straw  J^er-on  ;  take  Vynegre,  an  caste  Safroun 
]7er-on,  an  coloure  it,  an  serue  it  forth  Jeanne  alle  colde. 

.Ixxxxvij.  Chykonys  in  bruette. — Take  [an]  Sethe  Chykonys,  tS:  smyte 
hem  to  gobettys ;  J^an  take  Pepir,  Gyngere,  an  Brede  y-grounde,  &  temper  it 
vppe  wyth  j^e  self  brothe,  an  with  Ale  ;  an  coloure  it  with  Safrouw,  an  sethe 
an  serue  forth. 

.Ixxxxviij.  Blamang<'r  of  Fyshe. — Take  Rys,  an  sethe  hem  tylle  they 
brekyn,   &  late  hem   kele ;  j^an  caste  j^er-to  mylke   of   Almaundys ;    nym 

1  iov  Scheie.        *  on  account  of.         ^  "Whelks.  *  Slippery;  slimy.         *  If.  18  bk. 


24  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS. 

Perche  or  Lopstere,  &  do  j^er-to,  &  melle  it ;  J^an  nym  Sugre  -wi'th  pouder 
Gyngere,  &  caste  j^er-to,  &  make  it  chargeaunt,  and  ]>an  seme  it  forth. 

.xxxxix.  Sardeynej. — Take  Almaundys,  &  make  a  gode  Mylke  of  Flowre 
of  Eys,  SafroiiD,  Gyngere,  Canelle,  Maces,  Quybibej ;  grynd  liem  smal  on  a 
morter,  &  temper  hem  vppe  yxith  ])e  Mylke ;  ]>an  take  a  fayre  vesselle,  &  a 
fayre  parte  of  Sugre,  &  boyle  hem  wyl,  &  rynsche  j^in  dysshe  alle  a-bowte 
WitA-ynne  with  Sugre  or  oyle,  an  ]7an  seme  forth. 

^C.  Roseye. — Take  Almaunde  Mylke  an  flowre  of  Eys,  &  Sugre,  an 
Safroun,  an  boyle  hem  y-fere ;  jjan  take  Red  Eosys,  an  grynd  fayre  in  a 
morter  -with  Almaunde  mylke  ;  J-an  take  Loches,  an  toyle^  hem  [with] 
Flowre,  an  frye  hem,  &  ley  hem  in  dysshys ;  J^an  take  gode  pouder,  and 
do  in  ])e  Sewe,  &  caste  l^e  Sewe  a-bouyn  J^e  lochys,  &  serue  forth. 

.Cj.  Eyron  en  poche. — Take  Eyroun,  breke  hem,  an  sethe  hem  in  hot 
"Water ;  ]7an  take  hem  Vppe  as  hole  as  ]iou  may ;  ])an  take  flowre,  an  melle 
with  Mylke,  &  caste  J^er-to  Sugre  or  Hony,  &  a  lytel  pouder  Gyngere,  an 
boyle  alle  y-fere,  &  coloure  with  Safrown ;  an  ley  |iin  Eyroun  in  dysshys, 
&  caste  ]7e  Sewe  a-boue,  &  caste  on  pouder  y-now.  Blawnche  pouder 
ys  best. 

.Cij.  Muskelys  in  bruette. — Take  J^e  Muskelys  whan  J^ey  ben  y-sothe,  & 
pyke  owt  j^e  Muskele  of  ]>e  schulle,  &  pyke  a-way  ye  here :  jian  take  brede, 
an  pepir  &  Safroun  y-grounde,  &  temper  it  vp  with  ]>e  brothe ;  &  jif  j^ou 
wolt,  a-lye  it  with  Wyne  or  with  Ale,  &  serue  f  [orth]. 

.Ciij.  Fygeye. — Take  Eygys,  an  sethe  hem  tylle  J^ey  ben  neysshe,  jtan  bray 
hem  tylle  ]>ej  ben  smal ;  ];enne  take  hem  vppe  an  putte  hem  in  a  potte,  &  Ale 
J>er-to ;  j^an  take  Bred  y-gratyd,  an  Pynej  hole,  &  caste  ]7er-to,  &  let  boyle 
wyl ;  &  atte  ])e  dressoure,  caste  on  pouder  Canel  y-now,  &  serue  forth  :  &  jif 
J70W  wolt  coloz<r  yt  in  .iij.  maners,  ]>on  myjt,  with  Saunderys,  Safroun,  &  of 
hym-self,  and  ley  on  pouder  y-now,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.Ciiij.  Bolas. — Take  fayre  Bolasse,  wasshe  hem  clone,  &  in  "Wyne  boyle 
hem  j^at  j^ey  be  but  skaldyd  bywese,  &  boyle  hem  alle  to  pomppe,^  &  draw 
hem  ]7orw  a  straynoure,  &  a-lye  hem  with  flowre  of  Eys,  &  make  it 
chargea?mt,  &  do  it  to  J^e  fyre,  &  boyl  it;  take  it  of,  &  do  J^er-to  whyte 
Sugre.  gyngere,  Clowys,  Maces,  Canelle,  &  stere  it  wyl  to-gederys :  Jeanne 
take  gode  perys,  ^&  sethe  hem  wel  with  fe  Stalke,  &  sette  hem  to  kele,  & 
pare  hem  clene,  and  pyke  owt  j^e  corys ;  ]7an  take  datis,  &  wasshe  hem  clone, 
&  pyke  owt  ]>e  Stonys,  &  fylle  hem  fulle  of  blaunche  poudere  :  ]7an  take  J^e 
1  leaf  19.  2  Rub,  cover.  ^  Pulp.  *  If.  19  bk. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    1.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DWERS.  25 

Stalke  of  J-e  Perys,  take  fe  Bolas,  &  ley  .iij.  lechys  in  a  dysshe,  &  sette  )ia 
perys  J^er-yn. 

.Cv.  Lorey  de  Boolas. — Take  Bolas,  &  se]7e  hem  a  lytil,  &  draw  hem 
)orw  a  strayuoure,  &  caste  hem  in  a  broj^e  ;  &  do  j^er-to  Brcde  y-gratyd,  & 
boyle  y-fere,  &  jolkys  of  eyroiin  y-swengyd,  &  a-lyid  ;  take  Canel,  and 
Galyngale,  Skemyd  hony,  &  do  J^er-to,  &  sethe  wyl,  &  serue  forth. 

.Cvj.  Rapeye  of  Fleysshe. — Take  lene  Porke  y-sode  &  y-grounde  smalle,  & 
tempere  it  vppe  w/t/(  )e  self  broj^e,  &  do  it  in  a  potte,  an  caste  J^er-to  a  lytil 
honye,  &  boyle  it  tyl  it  be  chargeaunt ;  &  a-lye  it  wyth  pYkjs  of  Eyroun,  & 
coloure  it  with  Saunderys,  &  dresse  forth,  and  ponder  Marchaunt. 

.Cvij.  Sore  Sengle. — Take  Elys  or  Gurnard,  &  parte  hem  half  in  Wyne,  & 
half  in  watere,  in-to  a  potte  ;  take  Percely  and  Oynouys  &  hewe  hem  smalle  ; 
take  Clowes  or  Maces  &  caste  J^er-on  ;  take  Safroun,  &  caste  ]?er-to,  &  sette  on 
]>6  fyre,  &  let  boyle  tylle  it  be  y-now ;  ]>en  sette  it  a-doun ;  take  poudere 
Gyngere,  Canelle,  Galyngale,  &  temper  it  vppe  -with  Wyne,  &  cast  on  ]>e 
potte  &  serue  forth. 

.Cviij.  Prymerose. — Take  oj^er  half-pound  of  Flowre  of  Pys,  .iij.  pound  of 
Almanndys,  half  an  vnce  of  hony  &  Safrouui?,  &  take  ]>e  flowre  of  ]ie  Pryme- 
rose, &  grynd  hem,  and  tempi?/-  hem  vppe  with  Mylke  of  ]>e  Almanndys,  & 
do  pouder  Gyngere  ]>er-on :  boyle  it,  &  plante  J^in  skluce  ^  with  Rosys,  & 
serue  f[orth]. 

.Cix.  Gelye  de  chare. — Take  caluys  fete,  &  skalde  hem  in  fayre  water,  an 
make  hem  alle  ]>g  whyte.  Also  take  howhys  of  ^Vele,  &  ley  hem  on  water  to 
soke  out  ]>e  blode ;  ]>en  take  hem  vppe,  an  lay  hem  on  a  fayre  lynen  cloj^e, 
&  lat  ]>e  water  rennyn  out  of  [hem]  ;  J>an  Skore  ^  a  potte,  &  putte  J^e  Fete  & 
fe  Howhys  J-er-on ;  \>an  take  "Whyte  Wyne  'pat  wolle  hold  coloure,  &  cast 
]7er-to  a  porcyon,  an  non  ojier  lycoure,  )iat  j^e  Fleysshe  be  ouer-wewyd*  with- 
alle,  &  sette  it  on  J^e  fyre,  &  boyle  it,  &  Skerae  it  clene  ;  an  whan  it  is  tendyr 
&  boyHd  y-now,  take  vppe  j^e  Fleyshe  in-to  a  fayre  boUe,  &  sane  ]>e  lycoure 
wyl  ;  &  loke  ]7at  J^ow  haue  fayre  sydys  of  Pyggys,  &  fayre  smal  Chykenys  wyl 
&  clene  skladdyd  &  drawe,  &  lat  pe  leggys  an  l^e  fete  on,  an  waysshe  hem 
in  fayre  water,  &  caste  hem  in  ]>e  fyrste  brothe,  an  sethe  it  a-jen  ouer  j^e 
fyre,  &  skerae  it  clene  ;  lat  a  man  euermore  kepe  it,  an  blow  of  j^c  grauy. 
An  in  cas  ]>e  lycoure  wast  *  a- way,  caste  more  of  pe  same  wyne  j^er-to,  &  put 
J^in  honde  j^er-on ;  &  jif  J^in  bond  waxe  clammy,  it  is  a  syne  of  godeuesse, 

^  viscous  compound  ?  -  leaf  20.  ^  Scour. 

*  See  other  Cookery,  No.  174,  u-ese.  *  "Waste. 


26     COOKERY  BOOK.  I.  HARLEIAN  MS.  279.  POTAGE  DYYERS. 

an  let  not  ]>e  Fleyshe  be  moche  sothe/  ]7at  it  may  here  kyttyng;  J^an  take  it 
vppe,  &  ley  it  on  a  fayre  clojje,  &  sette  owt  ]>e  lycoure  fro  j^e  fyre,  &  put  a 
few  colys  vnder-netlie  ]>e  vesselle  J^at  ])e  lycoure  is  yn ;  J^an  take  pouder  of 
Pepir,  a  gode  quantyte,  &  Safron,  ^at  it  haue  a  fayre  Laumbere  coloure,  &  a 
gode  quantyte  of  Vynegre,  &  loke  fat  it  be  sauery  [of]  Salt  &  of  Yynegre, 
fayre  of  coloure  of  Safroun,  &  putte  it  on  fayre  lynen  cloj^e,  &  sette  it  vnder- 
nethe  a  fayre  pewter  dysshe,  &  lat  it  renne  ]?orw  ]>e  cloj^e  so  ofte  tylle  it 
renne  clere :  kytte  fayre  Rybbys  of  ]>e  syde  of  ]>e  Pygge,  &  lay  ham  on  a 
dysshe,  an  pulle  of  ])e  lemys  of  ]7e  Chykenys,  eche  fro  oj^er,  &  do  a- way  j^e 
Skynne,  &  ley  sum  in  a  dysshe  fayre  y-chowchyd,^  &  pore  ym  ^  gelye  ))er-on, 
&  lay  Almaundys  J^er-on,  an  Clowys,  &  paryd  Gyngere,  &  serue  forth. 

^Cx.  Gelye  de  Fysshe. — Take  newe  Pykys,  an  draw  hem,  and  smyte  hem 
to  pecys,  &  sethe  in  j^e  same  lycoure  J^at  j'ou  doste  Gelye  of  Fleysshe  ;  an  whan 
Jiey  ben  y-now,  take  Perchys  and  Tenchys,  &  sej^e ;  &  Elys,  an  kutte  hem  in 
fayre  pecys,  and  waysshe  hem,  &  putte  hem  in  J>e  same  lycoure,  &  loke  j^ine 
lycoure  be  styf  y-now  ;  &  jif  it  wolle  notte  cacche,*  take  Soundys  of  watteryd 
Stokkefysshe,  or  ellys  Skynnys,  or  Plays,  an  caste  j7er-to,  &  sethe  ouer  ])e 
fyre,  &  skeme  it  wyl ;  &  when  it  ys  y-now,  let  nowt  ]>e  Pysshe  broke  ;  J^enne 
take  ]>e  lycoure  fro  ]>e  fyre,  &  do  as  ]70u  dedyst  be  ^  J-at  olper  Gelye,  saue, 
pylle  ]>e  Fysshe,  &  ley  j^er-off  in  dysshis,  ]?at  is,  perche  &  suche  ;  and  Plowre 
hem,  &  serue  forthe. 

•Cxj.  Tannye. —  Take  almaunde  Mylke,  &  Sugre,  an  powdere  Gyngere,  &  of 
Galyngale,  &  of  Canelle,  and  Rede  Wyne,  &  boyle  y-fere :  &  )7at  is  gode  tannye. 

.Cxij.  Sturmye. — Take  gode  mylke  of  Almaundys  y-drawe  w«tA  wyne ; 

take  porke  an  hew  it  Smalle ;  do  it  on  a  Morter,  and  grynde  it  ryth  sraalle ; 

yen  caste  it  in  ]>e  same  Mylke,  &  caste  it  on  a  potte ;  take  Sawnderys  &  flowre 

of  Rys;  melle  hem  with  ]>e  Mylke,  draw  hem  Jjorw  a  straynoure,  &  caste  it 

[in]  a  clene  pot,  loke  ]>at  it  be  chargeaunt  y-now  ;  take  Sugre,  an  putte  J;er-on, 

&  Hony ;  do  it  ouer  fe  fyre,  &  let  it  sethe  a  gret  whyle  ;  sture  yt  wyl ;  take 

Eyroun  hardy-soj^e,  take  ]>e  whyte,  &  hew  hem  as  smalle  as  ]70W  myjth,  caste 

hem  on  j^e  potte ;  take    Safroune  &  caste  ]7er-to,   with  powder   Gyngere, 

Canelle,  Galyngale,  Clowys,  &  loke  J^at  ]>ou.  haue  powder  y-now ;  caste  it  in 

])e  potte,  temper  it  with  Vynegre  ;  take  Salt  &  do  j^er-to,  menge  hem  wylle 

to-gederys.  Make  a  Siryppe;  fe   .ij.  dele  schalle  ben  wyne,  &  J^e  .ij.  dele 

Sugre  or  hony ;  boyle  it  &  store  it,  &  Skeme  it  clene ;  ]7er-on  wete  "j^in 

dyssches,  &  serue  forth. 

1  boiled.  2  T-couched  ;  laid.  ^  Thine.  «  3  If.  20  bk. 

*  stick;  see  other  Cookery,  No.  174.  ®  By,  with.  ''    leaf  21. 


COOKERY   BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS.  27 

•Cxiij.  Bruette  saake. — Take  Capoun,  skalde  hem,  draw  hem,  smyte  hem 
to  gobettys,  Waysshe  hem,  do  hem  in  a  potte ;  jjenne  caste  owt  j^e  potte, 
waysshe  hem  a-jen  on  j^e  potte,  &  caste  ]7er-to  half  wyne  half  Bro]?e  ;  take 
Percely,  Isope,  "Waysshe  hem,  &  hew  hem  smal,  &  putte  on  ]>e  potte  ]>er  fe 
Fleysshe  is ;  caste  ]7er-to  Clowys,  quybibes,  Maces,  Datys  y-tallyd,  hoi 
Safroune ;  do  it  ouer  ]>e  fyre  ;  take  Canelle,  Gyngere,  tempore  J^in  powajes 
-with  wyne ;  caste  in-to  j^e  potte  Salt  )7er-to,  hele  ^  it,  &  whan  it  is  y-now, 
serue  it  forth. 

.Cxiiij.  Taylej. — Take  a  chargeaunt  Mylke  of  Almaundys,  an  draw  with 
wyne^;  take  Fygys  &  Eoysonys  a  gode  porcyon,  to  make  it  chargeaunt,  waysshe 
hem  clene,  &  caste  hem  on  a  morter,  grynd  hem  as  small  as  ])ou.  myjt,  temjier 
hem  vppe  yvith  ]>m  ^  Mylke,  draw  hem  j7orw  a  straynoure,  also  chargeauntly 
as  ]>ou  myjth  ;  caste  it  in  a  clene  potte,  do  it  to  j^e  fyre ;  take  Datys  y-taylid 
a-long,  &  do  j^er-to ;  take  Flowre  of  Kys,  &  draw  it  j7orw  a  straynoure,  and 
caste  )7er-to,  &  lat  it  boyle  tylle  it  be  chargeaunt ;  sette  it  on  ]^e  fyre ;  take 
ponder  Gyngere  &  Canelle,  Galyngale ;  temper  -with  Vynegre,  &  caste  J^er-to 
Sugre,  or  hony ;  caste  Jier-to,  sesyn  it  vppe  'with  Salt,  &  serue  forth. 

.Cxv.  Quynade. — Take  Quynces,  &  pare  hem  clene,  caste  hem  on  a  potte,  & 
caste  ]>eT-to  water  of  Rosys  ;  do  it  ouer  ]>e  fyre,  &  hele*  it  faste,  &  let  it  boyle 
a  gode  whyle  tyl  j^ey  ben  neysshe ;  &  jif  jiej  wol  not  ben  neysshe,  bray  hem 
in  a  Morter  smal,  draw  hem  )7orw  a  straynoure  ;  take  gode  Mylke  of  Almawdys, 
&  caste  in  a  potte  &  boyle  it ;  take  whyte  Wyne  &  Vynegre,  an  caste  ]7er-to 
]>e  Mylke,  &  let  it  stonde  a  whyle  ;  take  j^an  a  clene  canvas,  &  caste  jje  mylke 
vppe-on),  &  w/t/i  a  platere  ^stryke  it  of  ]>e  clo])e,  &  caste  it  on  ]>e  potte  ;  gedyr 
vppe  J'e  quynces,  &  caste  to  ]>e  creme,  &  do  it  ouer  ]>e  fyre,  &  lat  boyle  ;  take 
a  porcyon  of  ponder  of  Clowys,  of  Gyngere,  of  Graynys  of  Perys,  of  Euery 
a  porcyon  ;  take  Sugre  y-now,  with  Salt,  &  a  party  of  Safroun,  &  alle  menge 
to-gederys ;  &  when  ]>o\.i  dressyst  forth,  plante  it  with  foyle  of  Syluer. 

.Cxvj.  Blaunche  de  ferry. — Take  Almaundys,  an  draw  ];er-of  an  Char- 
geaunt Mylke  ;  take  Caponys  &  sethe  hem  ;  &  whan  ]>ej  ben  y-now,  take  hem 
vppe,  &  ley  hem  on  a  fayre  bord,  &  strype  of  J^e  Skyn,  &  draw  out  ]>e  Brawn 
&  hew  hem  smal ;  do  hem  on  a  Morter,  &  grynd  hem  smal ;  caste  on  a  potte, 
&  fayre  whyte  Salt,  &  boyle  hem ;  &  whan  ]>ey  bey  boylid,  sette  it  out,  & 
caste  on  whyte  "Wyne  or  Venegre,  &  make  it  quayle" ;  take  a  clene  cloj^e  and 
lete  it  be  tryid  a-brode,  &  stryke  it  wyl  vnder-nethe  alle  J^e  whyle  J^at  j^er 
wol  aujt  out  ]>er-oi;  ]?an  caste  Blaunche  powder  J;er-on,  or  pouder  Gyngere 

1  Cover.  2  MS.  caste  in  to  ]>e  potte,  struck  through  after  wyne. 

3  Thine.  <  Cover.  ^  if.  21  bk.  «  Curdle. 


28  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVEKS. 

y-mellyd  -with  Sugre ;  stryke  it  clene,  take  a  nevre  Er]7en  potte,  ojjer  a  clene 
bolle,  &  caste  ])in  mete  J^er-on,  j^er  plantyng  Anys  in  comfyte. 

.Cxvij.  Sauge. — Take  Gyngere,  Galyngale,  Clowys,  &  grynde  in  a  morter ; 
Jian  take  an  handfulle  of  Sawge,  &  do  Jier-to,  grynd  "wyl  to-gederys ;  take 
Eyroun,  &  sethe  hem  harde,  nym  j^e  jolkys,  grynde  liem  'with  ]>e  Sawge  & 
With  Jje  spycis,  &  temper  it  vppe  w/tA  Venegre  or  eysel,  or  w/tA  Alegere ; 
take  ]>e  whyte  of  j^e  Eyro?/n,  &  sethe  hem,  &  mynce  hem  smal,  &  caste  J^er-to  ; 
when  it  is  y-temperyd,  take  Brawn  of  hennys  or  Fyssches,  &  ley  on  dysschys, 
&  caste  ]>m  mete  a-boue. 

.Cxviij.  Murreye. — TakeMolberys,  &  wryng  hem  ]7orwe  a  clo^e ;  nym  Vele, 
hew  it,  sethe  it,  grynd  it  smal,  &  caste  Jier-to ;  nym  gode  Spycery,  Sugre,  & 
caste  }7er-to  ;  take  Wastylbrede  y-gratyd,  ^and  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  lye  it  vppe 
l^ier-wtth,  &  caste  gode  pouder  a-boue  y-now,  &  }ian  serue  forth. 

.Cxix.  Vyaunde  de  cyprys  in  lente.  —  Take  gode  J^ikke  mylke  of 
Almaundys,  &  do  it  on  a  potte  ;  &  nyme  ]ie  F[le]ysshe^  of  gode  Crabby s,  &  gode 
Samou?*,  &  bray  it  smal,  &  tempere  yt  vppe  w/tA  ]?e  forsayd  mylke  ;  boyle  it, 
an  lye  it  vfith  floure  of  Rys  or  Amyndou?^,  an  make  it  chargeaunt ;  Avhen  it  ys 
y-boylid,  do  }7er-to  whyte  Sugre,  a  gode  quantyte  of  whyte  Vernage  Pime^  ^ 
Vfith  J7e  wyne,  Pome-garnade.  "VVhan  it  is  y-dressyd,  straw  a-boue  j^e  grayne 
of  Pome-garnade. 

.Cxx.  "Whyte  Mortrewys  of  Porke. — Take  lenePorke,  &  boyle  it ;  blaunche 
Almandys,  &  grynd  hem,  &  terape/-  vppe  w/tA  ])e  brothe  of  ]>e  porke,  &  lye 
hem  vppe  -with  ]>e  Flowre  of  Eys,  an  lete  boyle  to-gederys,  but  loke  j^at  ]>e 
porke  be  smal  grounde  y-now  ;  caste  J-er-to  Myncyd  Almaundys  y-fryid  in 
freysshe  grece  ;  J^en  sesyn  hem  vppe  alle  flatte  in  a  dysshe  ;  j^row  j^er-to  Sugre 
y-now  &  Salt;  &  atte  J^e  dressoure,  strawe  ]>eY-on  pouder  Gyngere  y-mellyd 
"with  Almaundys. 

.Cxxj.  Rapeye. — Take  Fygys  &Eoysonys,  &  grynd  hem  in  a  Mortere,  & 
tempere  hem  vppe  with  Almaunde  Mylke,  &  draw  hem  ])oyw  a  clo]7e ;  jjen 
take  gode  Spycys,  &  caste  |7er-to ;  take  Perys,  se]>e  hem  &  pare  hem,  &  do 
a-way  ]>e  core,  &  bray  hem  in  a  mortere,  &  caste  to  j^e  oj>er ;  take  gode  Wyne, 
&  Blake  Sugre  or  Hony,  &  caste  J^er-to  a  lytil,  &  let  it  boyle  in  fere;  &  whan 
Jjow  dressyst  yn,  take  Maces  &  Clowes,  Quybibys  &  Graynys,  &  caste  a-boue. 

.Cxxij.  A  rede  Morreye. — Take  Molberys,  and  wrynge  a  gode  hepe  of  hem 
]7orw  a  clojjo ;  nym  Yele,  hew  it  &  grynd  it  smal,  &  caste  l^er-to ;  nym  gode 
Spycery  [an]  Sugre,  &  caste  j^er-Ho ;  take  Wastilbrede  &  grate  it,  &  jolkys 
1  leaf  22.  -  MS.  Fysshe  (?  intentionally).  ^  ?  meaning.  *  If.  22  bk. 


COOKERY  BOOK.  I.  HARLEIAN  MS.  279.  POTAGE  DYVERS.     29 

of  Eyroun,  &  lye  it  vppe  fer-^vith,  &  caste  gode  pouder  of  Spycery  J-er-an. 
a-boiien  ;  &  j^an  serue  it  forth. 

•Cxxiij.  Strawberye. — Take  Strawberys,  &  waysshe  hem  in  tyme  of  jere 
in  gode  red  wyne ;  J^an  strayne  j^orwe  a  cloj^e,  &  do  hem  in  a  potte  w/tA  gode 
Almaunde  mylke,  a-lay  it  'with  Amyndo?m  o]7er  yvith  ]>e  flowre  of  Rys,  &  make 
it  chargeaunt  and  lat  it  boyle,  and  do  ]?erin  lloysonys  of  coraunce,  Safrouu, 
Pepir,  Sugre  grete  plente,  pouder  Gyngere,  Canel,  Galyngale  ;  poynte  it  with 
Yynegre,  &  a  lytil  whyte  grece  put  ]7er-to  ;  coloure  it  with  Alkenade,  &  droppe 
it  a-bowte,  plante  it  with  ])e  graynys  of  Pome-garnad,  &  Jian  serue  it  forth. 

.Cxxiiij.  Chyryoun. — Take  Chyryis/ &  pike  out  ]>e  stonys,  waysshe  hem 
clene  in  wyne,  J^an  wryng  hem  I'orw  a  cloj'e,  &  do  it  on  a  potte,  &  do  ]>eT-to 
whyte  grece  a  quantyte,  &  a  partye  of  Floure  of  Rys,  &  make  it  chargeaunt ; 
do  Jier-to  hwyte  Hony  or  Sugre,  poynte  it  with  Venegre ;  A-force  it  with 
stronge  pouder  of  Canelle  &  of  Galyngale,  &  a-lye  it  with  a  grete  porcyoun 
of  plkys  of  Eyrouii) ;  coloure  it  with  Safroun  or  Saunderys ;  &  whan  ])o\i 
seruyste  in,  plante  it  with  Chyrio?m,  &  serue  f[orthJ. 

.Cxxv.  Vyolette. — Take  Flourys  of  Vyolet,  boyle  hem,  presse  hem,  bray 
hem  smal,  temper  hem  vppe  w?tA  Almaunde  mylke,  or  gode  Co  we  Mylke,  a-lye  it 
with  Amyndou??  or  Flowre  of  Rys ;  take  Sugre  y-now,  an  putte  j^er-to,  or  hony 
in  defaute ;  coloure  it  with  J-e  same  Jiat  fe  flowrys  be  on  y-peywtid  a-boue. 

.Cxxvj.  £.ede  Kose. — Take  fe  same,  saue  a-lye  it  with  ]>e  plkys  of  eyrouw, 
&  for]7er-more  as  vyolet. 

.Cxxvij.  Prymerose. — Hyjth  as  vyolette. 

.Cxxviij.  Flowrys  of  hawj'orn.- — In  J^e  same  maner  as  vyolet. 

^Cxxix.  A  potage  on  a  Fysdaye. — Take  an  sethe  an  .ij.  or  .iij.  Applys 
y-p[«r]ede,*  &  strayne  hem  ]>otw  a  straynoure,  &  Flowre  of  Rys  ])ev-with  ;  ]>an 
take  ]>at  whyte  Wyne,  &  strayne  it  w?'t/«-alle  ;  ]7an  loke  ]7at  it  be  nowt  y-bounde 
to  moche  with  ]>e  Floure  of  Rys,  J^an  jif  it  a-boyle ;  ]>en  caste  ]>eT-to  Saunderys  & 
Safroun,  &  loke  it  be  marbylle;^  Jian  take  Roysonys  of  corauns,  &  caste  J^er-on, 
&  Almaundys  y-schredyd  ]7er-on  y-nowe ;  &  mynce  Datys  Smale,  &  caste 
]7er-on,  &  a  lytil  Hony  to  make  it  dowcet,  or  ellys  Sugre ;  ]7enne  caste  j?er-to 
Maces  &  Clowys,  Pepir,  Canelle,  Gyngere,  &  ojier  spycery  y-now ;  ]>en  take 
Perys,  &  sethe  hem  a  lytil ;  ]>en  reke  hem  on  fe  colys  tyl  ]>ej  ben  tendyr ;  j^au 
smale  schrede  hem  rounde ;  &  a  lytil  or  ])o\i  serue  it  in,  J^row  hem  on  J^e 
potage,  &  so  serue  hem  in  almost  flatte,  nojt  Fullyche. 

.Cxxx.  Brewes  in  Lentyn. — Take  a  fewe  Fygys,  &  se]7e  hem  &  draw  hem 

1  MS.  Chyr>is.       ^  jxS.  Hawiom.       ^  leaf  23;       *  MS.  i/-pede.       *  i.e.  variegated. 


30  COOKERY   BOOK.    I,    HARLEIAN   MS.    279.    POTAGE    DYVERS. 

]>OTw  a  straynoure  with  "Wyne ;  J^en  putte  J^er-to  a  lytil  Hony ;  j^en  toste 
Brede,  &  Salte  it ;  &  so  broune  &  rennyng  as  Urwes,  serue  hem  in,  &  straw 
pouder  Canelle  y-now  j^er-on  atte  J^e  dressoiire,  &  serue  it  forth. 

.Cxxxj.  A  potage  colde. — Take  Wyne,  &  drawe  a  gode  j^ikke  Milke  of 
Almaundys  with  Wyne,  jif  ]>ou  mayste ;  fen  putte  yt  on  a  potte,  caste  J^er-to 
Pouder  Canelle  &  Gyngere  &  SafFrou?? ;  ]>en  lat  it  boyle,  &  do  it  on  a  cloj^e  ;  & 
jif  ]>on  wolt,  late  hym  ben  in  dyuers  colourys,  }jat  on  whyte  with-owte 
Spyces,  &  |iat  ojier  jelow  with  Spicerye. 

.Cxxxij.  Sauke'  Sarsoun. — Take  Almaundys,  &  blaunche  hem,  &  frye 
hem  in  oyle  oj^er  in  grece,  J^an  bray  hem  in  a  Mortere,  &  tempere  hem  with 
gode  Almaunde  mylke,  &  gode  "Wyne,  &  ]>en  ])e  |»rydde  ■pertj  schal  ben 
Sugre;  &  ^if  it  be  nojt  J^ikke  y-nowe,  a-lye  it  with  Alkenade,  &  Florche^  it 
a-bouyn  with  Pome-garned,  ^&  messe  it ;  serue  it  forth. 

.Cxxxiij.  Rapeye. — Take  Pykys  or  Tenchys,  ojier  freysshe  Fysshe,  &  frye 
it  in  Oyle  ;  j^en  nyme  crustys  of  whyte  brede,  &  Raysonys  &  Canelle,  an  bray 
it  wyl  in  a  mortere,  &  temper  it  vppe  wyth  gode  wyne ;  J^en  coloure  it  with 
Canelle,  or  a  litil  Safro^^n :  J^an  boyle  it,  &  caste  in  hoi  Clowys  &  Quybibes, 
&  do  J>e  Fysshe  in  a  dysshe,  &  J^an  serue  forth. 

.Cxxxiiij.  Apple  Moyle. — Nym  Rys,  an  bray  hem  wyl,  &  temper  hem  with 
Almaunde  mylke,  &  boyle  it ;  &  take  Applys,  &  pare  hem,  an  smal  screde 
hem  in  mossellys ;  j^row  on  sugre  y-now,  &  coloure  it  with  Safrown,  &  caste 
]7er-to  gode  pouder,  &  serue  f  [orth]. 

.Cxxxv.  Applade  Ryalle. — Take  Applys,  &  sej^e  hem  tylle  j^ey  ben  tendyr, 
&  ]7an  lat  hem  kele  ;  ])en  draw  hem  J^orw  a  straynowr ;  &  on  flesshe  day  caste 
J>er-to  gode  fatte  broj^e  of  freysshe  beef,  an  whyte  grece,  &  Sugre,  & 
Safroun,  &  gode  pouder ;  «&  in  a  Fysshe  day,  take  Almaunde  mylke,  &  oyle 
of  Olyff,  &  draw  J^er-vppe  with-al  a  gode  pouder,  &  serue  forth.  An  for 
nede,  draw  it  vppe  with  Wyne,  &  a  lytil  hony  put  ]>er-to  for  to  make  it  jian 
dowcet;  &  serue  it  forth. 

.Cxxxvj.  A  potage  of  Eoysons. — Take  Raysonys,  &  do  a- way  J>e  kyrnellys ; 
&  take  a  part  of  Applys,  &  do  a-way  ]!e  corys,  &  ]>e  pare,*  &  bray  hem  in  a 
mortere,  &  temper  hem  with  Almawde  Mylke,  &  melle  hem  with  flowre  of 
Rys,  j^at  it  be  clene  chargeaunt,  &  sttaw  vppe-on  pouder  of  Galyngale  &  of 
Gyngere,  &  serue  it  forth. 

.Cxxxvij.  Chykons  in  dropeye. — They  schul  ben  fayre  y-boylid  in  fayre 
watere  tyl  j^ey  ben  y-now,  j^en  take  hem  fyrst,  &  choppe  hem  smal :  &  whan 
1  Sauce.  2  Flourish ;  garnish.  3  If.  23  bk.  *  ?  peel. 


COOKERY  BOOK.  I.  HAKLEIAN  MS.  279.  POTAGE  DYVERS.     31 

]>eY  ben  y-now,  tempere  vppe  a  gode  Almaunde  mylke  of  ])e  same,  &  vfith 
Wyne :  a-lye  it  -with  Amyndon,  o]>er  yvith  ^floure  of  Rys :  j^en  take  fayre 
freysshe  grace,  &  putte  Alkenade  ]>er-to,  &  gader  his  coloure  J^er-of,  &  ley  J^e 
quartcrys  .v.  or  .tJ.  in  a  dysshe,  as  it  wole  come  a-bowte,  &  Salt  it  atte  j^e 
dressoure,  sprynge  -with  a  fej^er  or  .ij.  here  &  ]>ere  a-bowte  ]>e  dysshe;  &  jif 
]joii  lyst,  put  }7er-on  ponder  of  Gyngere,  but  nojt  a-boue,  but  in  ])e  potage, 
&  ]7an  serue  forth. 

.Cxxxviij.  Pumpes. — Take  an  sethe  a  gode  gobet  of  Porke,  &  nojt  to  lene, 
as  teudyr  as  ]>on  may  ;  pan  take  hem  vppe  &  choppe  hem  as  smal  as  ]>oxl 
may ;  Jian  take  clowes  &  Maces,  &  choppe  forth  witA-alle,  &  Also  choppe  forth 
■with  Roysonys  of  coraunce ;  J^an  take  hem  &  rolle  hem  as  round  as  j^ou  may, 
lyke  to  smale  pelettys,  a  .ij.  inches  a-bowte,  J^an  ley  hem  on  a  dysshe  be  hem 
selue ;  ])an  make  a  gode  Almaunde  mylke,  &  a  lye  it  with  flours  of  Tlys,  &  lat 
it  boyle  wyl,  biit  loke  )>at  it  be  clcne  rennyng;  &  at  }e  dressoure,  ley 
.V.  pompys  in  a  dysshe,  &  pore  J^in  potage  ]7er-on.  An  jif  ])ou  wolt,  sette  on 
euerj  pompe  a  flos  campy  -  flo?<r,  &  a-boue  straw  on  Sugre  y-now,  &  ]\[aces  : 
&  serue  hem  forth.  And  sum  men  make  j^e  pellettys  of  vele  or  Beeff,  but 
porke  ys  beste  &  fayrest. 

.Cxxxix.  Caudel  Ferry  departyd  with  a  blamanger. — Take  Fleysshe  of 
Capoun,  or  of  Porke,  &  hakke  hem  smal,  &  do  it  in  a  mortere  an  bray  it  wyl, 
&  temper  it  vppe  ^v^th  capoun  brojje  ]>at  it  be  wyl  chargeaunt ;  J^an  nym 
mylke  of  Almaundys,  take  jolkys  of  eyroun),  &  Safroun,  &  melle  hem 
to-gederys  J^at  it  be  ^elow,  &  do  ]7er-to  ponder  Canelle,  &  styke  Jier-on  Clowis, 
Maces,  &  Quybibis,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

•Cxi.  Egredouncye. — Take  Porke  or  Beef,  whej^er  ]>e  lykey,  &  leche  it 
|iinne  Jjwerte^;  J^en  broyle  it  broun)  a  lit  el,  &  j^en  mynce  it  lyke  Yenyson  ; 
choppe  it  in  sewe,  J^en  caste  it  in  ^a  potte  &  do  J^er-to  Freyssh  brothe;  take 
Erbis,  Oynonys,  Percely  &  Sawge,  &  o]ier  gode  erbis,  J'en  lye  it  vppe  with 
Brede  ;  take  Pepir  &  Safroun,  pouder  Canel,  Vynegre,  or  Eysel  "Wyne,  Broj^e 
an  Salt,  &  let  jet*  boyle  to-gederys,  tylle  J^cy  ben  y-now,  &  j^an  serue  it 
forth  renny[?^]g. 

.Cxlj.  Noteye. — Take  a  gret  porcyoMn  of  Haselle  leuys,  &  grynd  in  a  morter 
as  smal  as  ]>ou  may,  whyl  J^at  J^ey  ben  pnge ;  take  ]7an,  &  draw  vppe  a  j^rift 
Mylke  of  Almaundys  y-blaunchyd,  &  temper  it  -with  Freysshe  bro]7e ;  wryng 
out  clene  }7e  Ins  of  j^e  leuys  ;  take  Fleysshe  of  Porke  or  of  Capo?m,  &  grynd  it 
smal,  &  temper  it  vppe  with  J'e  mylke,  &  caste  it  in  a  potte,  &  ]>e  Ins  ]jer-to, 
1  leaf  24.  ^  p  field-flower.  '  MS.  i/werte.  *  If.  24  bk.  *  It. 


32     COOKERY  BOOK.  I.  HARLEIAN  MS.  279.  POTAGE  DYVERS. 

do  it  ouer  ]>e  fyre  &  late  it  boyle  ;  take  flour  of  Rys,  &  a-lye  it ;  take  &  caste 
Sugre  y-now  ]>ef-to,  &  Vynegre  a  quantyte,  &  pouder  Gyngere,  &  Safroii^  it 
■wel,  &  Salt ;  take  smal  notys,  &  breke  hem  ;  take  j>e  kyrnellys,  &  make  hem 
"svhyte,  &  frye  hem  vppe  in  grece  ;  plante  ])cr-^ith  ]?iii  mete  &  serue  forth. 

.Cxlij.  Vyande  Ryall^. — Nyme  gode  Mylke  of  Almaundys,  &  do  it  in  a 
potte,  &  sette  it  oner  jie  fyre,  &  styre  it  tyl  it  boyle  almost ;  j^en  take  flour 
of  Rys  &  of  fe  selue  Mylke,  an  draw  it  )7or\ve  a  straynoure,  &  so  ]7er-w?t/i 
a-lye  it  tylle  it  be  Chargeaunte,  &  stere  it  faste  ]?at  it  crouste  nojt ;  jren  take 
l^gap  in  MS.']  owte  of  grece,  &  caste  it  J^orw  a  Skymoure,  &  colowr  ]>at  Sewe 
]>er-with ;  J-an  take  Sugre  in  confyte,  &  caste  in  y-now ;  sesyn  it  -with  Salt 
&  ley  ]>ve  lechys  in  a  dysshe,  &  caste  Aneys  in  comfyte  j^er-on,  &  Jeanne  serue 
forth. 

.Cxliij.  Lampreys  in  galentyn. — Take  Brede,  &  stepe  it  -with  Wyne  & 
Vynegre,  &  caste  j^^r-to  Canelle,  &  draw  it  ]7orw  a  straynoure,  and  do  it  in  a 
potte,  &  caste  pepir  'jfer-to  ;  Jian  take  Smale  Oynonys,  mynce  hem,  frye  hem  in 
Oyle,  &  caste  Jier-to  a  fewe  Saunderys,  ^an  let  hem  boyle  a  lytil ;  ])eu  take  J^e 
lampronys  &  skalde  hem  w/t/i  [^ff/?  in  ITS.']  &  hot  waters,  &  sethe  &  boyle 
hem  in  a  dysshe,  &  cast  ]>e  Sewe  vppe-on,  &  serue  forth  for  a  potage. 

.Cxliiij.  Schyconys  with  ]>e  bruesse. — Take  halfe  a  dosyn  Chykonys,  & 
putte  hem  iu-to  a  potte  ;  |ien  putte  j^er-to  a  gode  gobet  of  freysshe  Eeef,  &  lat 
hem  boyle  wyl ;  putte  ]'er-to  Percely,  Sawge  leuys,  Sauerey,  nojt  to  smal 
hakkyd ;  putte  Jier-to  Safroun  y-now ;  ]>en  kytte  ]>m  Brewes,  &  skalde  hem 
■with  ]>e  same  broj^e  ;  Salt  it  wyl ;  &  but  ^'ou  haue  Beef,  take  Motou?z,  but 
fyrste  StufFe  J^in  chekons  in  }iis  wyse :  take  &  8ej?e  hard  Eyrouw,  &  take  ]>e 
^olkys  &  choppe  hem  smal,  &  choppe  Jier-to  Clowys,  Maces,  Hole  Pepir,  & 
Stuffe  ]>m  chekonys  w/t/i-al ;  Also  put  hole  gobettys  &  marye  with  ynne  ; 
Also  jien  dresse  hem  as  a  pertryche,  &  fayre  coloure  hem,  &  ley  vppe-on  j'is 
browes,  &  serue  in  with  Bakoun. 

.Cxlv.  Blaunche  Perreye. — Take  Pesyn,  &  waysshe  hem  clene,  &  j^en  take 
a  gode  quantyte  of  fyne  leye,  &  putte  it  on  a  potte,  &  a  lytil  water  J-er-to ;  & 
whan  ]>e  ley  is  se]7in  hot,  caste  Ipe  Pesyn  J'er-to,  &  }er  late  hem  soke  a  gode 
whyle ;  fen  take  a  quantyte  of  wollen  cloj^e,  &  rubbe  hem,  &  ]>e  holys^  wyl 
a-way ;  j^enne  take  a  seve  or  a  wheterydoun,  &  ley  J^in  pesyn  ]>er-on,  &  go  to 
jje  water,  &  waysshe  hem  clene  a-way  jje  holys,  j^en  putte  hem  in  a  potte,  & 
}ej  wyl  alle  to-falle  with  a  lytil  boylynge,  to  pereye,  saue  \>e  whyte  Pepyn  is 
])er-in,  &  j^at  is  a  gode  syjth  ;  j^en  Salt  hem,  &  serue  hem  forth. 
1  leaf  25.  ^  ^ulls,  shucks. 


cookp:ry  book.  i.  harleian  ms.  279.  potage  dyvers.        33 

•Cxlvj.  Ry^th  so  Caboges'  Ben  seruyd,  saue  men  sayn  it  is  gode  Also  to 
ley  hem  in  a  bagge  ouernyjth  in  rennyug  streme  of  watere,  &  a-morwe  sette 
vppe  watere,  &  when  ]>e  water  is  skaldyng  hot,  j^row  hem  Jier  on,  &  hoole 
hem  in  fern  vrjse  be-forsayd,  &  serue  fortli. 

".Cxlvij.  Brwes  in  lentyn. — Take  AVater  &  let  boyle,  and  draw  a  Iyer  ]7er-to 
of  Brede,  of  j^e  cromys,  w/tA  wyne  y-now  ;  lete  alle  ben  wyne  almost ;  j^en  put 
Jjer-to  hony  a  gode  quantyte,  l^at  it  may  ben  dowcet,  j^an  putte  ponder  Pcpir 
]>er-to,  Clowys,  Maces,  and  Saunderys,  &  Salt,  &  skalde  ]>m^  brewes  tender,  & 
serue  f[orth]. 

.Cxlviij.  Whyte  Pesyn  in  g;-«uey. — Take  Whyte  Pesyn,  &  hoole  hem  in 
J^e  maner  as  men  don  Caboges,  or  blaunche  perry ;  Jjan  sethe  hem  with 
Almaunde  mylke  vppe,  putte  ]7er-to  Sugre  y-now,  &  fryid  Oynonys  &  Oyle, 
&  serue  f[orth]. 

.Cxlix.  A  Potage. — Take  an  sethe  a  fewe  eyron)  in  red  "Wyne ;  ]>an  take  & 
draw  hem  j^orw  a  straynoure  w/tA  a  gode  mylke  of  Almaiindys;  l^en  caste 
J^er-to  Eoysonys  of  Coraunce,  Dates  y-taylid,  grete  E-oysonys,  Pynes,  ponder 
Pepir,  Sawndrys,  Clouys,  Maces,  Hony  y-now,  a  lytil  doucete,  &  Salt;  j^an 
bynde  hym  vppe  flat  with  a  lytyl  flowre  of  Eys,  &  let  hem  ben  Red  with 
Saunderys,  &  serue  hym  in  flatte;  &  jif  }on  wolt,  in  fleyssh  tyme  caste  vele 
y-choppid  j>cr-on,  not  to  smale. 

.CI.  Cawdel  out  of  lente. — Take  &  make  a  gode  mylke  of  Almaundys 
y-draw  vppe  with  wyne  of  Red,  whyte  is  beterre ;  jif  it  schal  be  whyte, 
jjan  strayne  jolkys  of  Eyroun  fer-to  a  fewe.  Put*  j>er-to  Sugre  &  Salt, 
but  Sugre  y-now ;  J^en  when  it  begynnyth  to  boyle,  sette  it  out,  &  almost 
flatte ;  serue  it  then  forth,  &  euer  kepe  it  as  whyte  as  J?ou  may,  &  at  j^e 
dressoure  di-oppe  Alkenade  J?er-on,  &  serue  forth  ;  &  jif  ]>ou.  wylt  haue  hjm 
chargeaunt,  bynd  hym  vppe  with  filoMr  [of]  Rys,  ojjer  with  whetyn  floui'e, 
it  is  no  fors.  And  jif  ]?ou  wolt,  coloure  hym  with  Safrown,  &  straw  on 
ponder  y-now,  &  Sugre  y-now,  &  serwe  f[orth]. 

.Clj.  Creme  Bastarde. — Take  fe  whyte  of  Eyroun  a  grete  hepe,  &  putte 
it  on  a  panne  ful  of  Mylke,  &  let  yt  boyle  ;  '^I'en  sesyn  it  so  with  Saltan  hony 
a  lytel,  J^en  lat  hit  kele,  &  draw  it  j^orw  a  straynoure,  an  take  fayre  Cowe 
mylke  an  draw  yt  w/t/i-all,  &  seson  it  with  Sugre,  &  loke  fat  it  be  poynant 
&  doucet :  &  serue  it  forth  for  a  potage,  or  for  a  gode  Bakyn  mete,  wheder 
]?at  I'ou  wolt. 

.Clij.  Capoun  in  Salome. — Take  a  Capoun  &  skalde  hym,  Eoste  hym,  jren 
'  i.e.  Cabbages  in  just  the  same  way.      -  If.  25  bk.      ^  Thine.      *  MS.  but.     ^  If.  26. 


34  COOKERY   BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ. 

take  jiikke  Almaunde  mylke,  temper  it  wyth  wyue  Whyte  o]>er  Eed,  take  a 
lytyl  Saunderys  &  a  lytyl  Safrouw,  &  make  it  a  marbyl  coloure,  &  so  atte  Jjc 
dressoure  j^row  on  hym  in  ye  kyckoun,  &  jrow  J^e  Mylke  a-boue,  &  j^at  is 
most  commelyche,  &  serue  forth. 

.Cliij.  Pompys. — Take  Beef,  Porke,  or  Vele,  on  of  hem,  &  raw,  alle  to- 
choppe  it  atte  J;e  dressoure,  J^an  grynd  hem  in  a  raorter  as  smal  as  ])0u  may, 
J^an  caste  ])er-to  Raw  plkys  of  Eyrou?i,  wyn,  an  a  lytil  whyte  [sugre]  :  caste 
also  ]7er-to  ponder  Pepyi-,  &  Macys,  Clowes,  Quybibys,  ponder  Canelle, 
Synamouii),  &  Salt,  &  a  lytil  Safroun ;  ]>eu  take  &  make  smale  Pelettys 
round  y-now,  &  loke  ]>at  J>on  haue  a  fayre  potte  of  Freysshe  brojie  of  bef  or 
of  Capoun,  &  euer  j^row  hem  ]7er-on  &  lete  hem  sethe  tyl  J»at  ]>ej  ben  y-now  ; 
]7en  take  &  draw  vppe  a  jryfty  mylke  of  Almaundys,  w/tA  cold  freysshe 
brojje  of  Bef,  Vele,  Motou),  oj^er  Capo«n,  &  a-lye  it  with  floure  of  Eys  &  we'tA 
Spycerye;  &  atte  J^e  dressoure  ley  J7es  pelettys  .v.  or  .vj.  in  a  dysshe,  &  J^en 
pore  ]>m  sewe  aneward,^  &  seme  in,  or  ellys  make  a  gode  Jjryfty  Syryppe  & 
ley  pin-  pelettys  atte  j>e  dressoure  fcr-on,  &  ]>at  is  gode  Berujse.^ 

^  LECHE  VYAUNDEZ. 

.1.  Brawn  in  comfyte. — Take  Preyssch  Brawn  &  sethe  yt  y-now,  &  pare 
it  &  grynde  it  in  a  mortere,  &  tem-per  it  w«tA  Almand  mylke,  &  draw^  it 
]>orw  a  straynoure  in-to  a  potte,  &  caste  J^er-to  Sugre  y-now,  &  powder  of 
Clowys,  &  let  boyle ;  J^en  take  floure  of  Canelle,  &  ponder  of  Gyngere  ;  & 
]>en  take  it  out  of  j^e  potte,  an  putte  it  in  a  lynen  cloj^e  &  presse  it,  but  lat  it 
boyle  so  longe  in  jie  potte  tylle  it  be  alle  J^ikke  ;  j^an  take  it  vppe  &  presse  it 
on  a  clo]7e,  &  |7en  leche  it  fayre  with  a  knyff,  but  not  to  j^inne ;  &  J^aw  jif  ]>ou 
wolt,  ]70u  myjht  take  j>e  Bybbys  of  j>e  bore  al  bare,  &  chete  ^  hem  enlongys 
J'orw  ]7e  lechys,  an  so  serue  forth  a  leche  or  to  in  euery  dysshe. 

.ij.  Blaunche  Brawen. — Take  Preysshe  Braun,  &  mynce  hem  smal,  &  take 
gode  Jiikke  mylke  of  Almaundys  y-blaunchyde,  &  putte  alle  in-to  a  potte,  «&; 
Sugre,  &  lat  boyle  alle  to-gederys  tyl  it  be  ryjt  styffe  ;  ]>en  caste  it  vppe,  & 
caste  it  in  a  fayre  cold  basyn,  &  lette  it  stonde  J7er-in  tyl  it  be  cold ;  «&;  J^en 
leche  .ij.  or  .iij.  in  a  dysshe,  &  serue  forth. 

.iij.  Pynade. — Take  Hony  &  gode  ponder  Gyngere,  &  Galyngale,  &  Canelle, 
Pouder  pepir,  &  graynys  of  parys,  &  boyle  y-fere ;  j^an  take  kyrnelys  of 
Pynotys  &  caste  Jier-to  ;  &  take  chyconys  y-soj^e,  &  hew  hem  in  grece,  & 

'  on  it.  ~  Thine.  ^  four  blank  pages  follow. 

*  If.  27  bk.  5  MS.  dra!/.  s  get,  see  Douce  MS.  No.  48. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAIINDEZ.  85 

caste  ]?er-to,  &  lat  sejje  y-fere;  &  j>en  lat  droppe  Jier-of  on  a  knyf  ;  &  jif  it 
cleuyth  &  wexyth  hard,  it  ys  y-now ;  &  ]>en  putte  it  on  a  chargere  tyl  it 
be  cold,  &  mace^  lechys,  &  serue  -with  oj^er  metys ;  &  jif  J'ou  wolt  make  it 
in  spycery,  j>en  putte  non  chykonys  ]7er-to. 

.iiij.  Gyngerbrede. — Take  a  quart  of  hony,  &  sethe  it,  &  skeme  it  clene; 
take  Safrouu,  pouder  Pepir,  &  j^row  j^er-on  ;  take  gratyd  Brede,  &  make  it  so 
chargeaunt*  j^at  it  wol  be  y-lechyd;  ]7en  take  pouder  Canelle,  &  straw  J>er-on 
y-now;  J-en  make  yt^  square,  lyke  as  j^ou  wolt  leche  yt;  take  when  )70U 
lechyst  hyt,  an  caste  Box  leves  a-bouyn,  y-stykyd  ]^er-on,  on  clowys.  And 
jif  J70U  wolt  haue  it  Red,  coloure  it  with  Saunderys  y-now. 

.V.  Leche  lumbarde. — Take  Datys,  an  do  a-way  ]>e  stonys,  &  sethe  in 
swete  Wyne  ;  take  hem  vppe,  an  grynd  hem  in  a  mortere  ;  draw  vppe  J^orw  a 
straynoure  with  a  lytyl  whyte  Wyne  &  Sugre,  And  caste  hem  on  a  potte,  & 
lete  boyle  tylle  it  be  styfP ;  J^en  take  yt  vppe,  &  ley  it  on  a  horde ;  ]?an  take 
pouder  of  Gyngere  &  Canelle,  &  wryng  it,  &  molde  it  to-gederys  in  j^in  hondys, 
&  make  it  so  styf  j^at  it  wolle  be  leehyd  ;  &  jif  it  be  nojt  styf  y-nowe,  take 
hard  plkys  of  Eyron)  &  kreme*  ]7er-on,  or  ellys  grated  brede,  &  make  it 
J-icke  y-now ;  j^en  take  clareye,  &  caste  ]7er-on  in  maner  of  a  Syryppe,  when 
]7ou  shalt  serue  it  forth. 

.vj.  Auter  maner  leche  lumbarde. — Take  fayre  Hony,  and  clarifi  yt  on 
]>e  fyre  tylle  it  wexe  hard ;  J^en  take  hard  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  kryme*  a  gode 
quantyte  ]7er-to,  tyl  it  be  styf  y-now ;  an  J^enne  take  it  vppe,  &  ley  it  on  a 
horde ;  I'en  take  fayre  gratyd  Brede,  &  pouder  pepir,  &  molde  it  to-gederys 
wiih  yme  hondys,  tylle  it  be  so  styf  )at  it  wole  ben  leehyd  ;  J^an  leche  it ;  J^en 
take  wyne  &  pouder  Gyngere,  Canelle,  &  a  lytil  claryfyid  hony,  &  late  renne 
]>OYw  a  straynour,  &  caste  J^is  Syryp  ]7er-on,  when  ]>on  shalt  serue  it  out, 
instede  of  Clerye. 

.vij.  Soupes  of  Salomere. — Take  boylid  Porke,  &  hew  yt  an  grynd  it ; 
J^en  take  cowe  Mylke,  &  Eyroun  y-swonge,  &  Safrou/2,  &  mynce  Percely 
bladys,  &  caste  ]7er-to,  &  let  boyle  alle  y-fere ;  &  dresse  vppe-on  a  cloj^e,  & 
kerue  j^er-of  smal  lechys,  &  do  hem  in  a  dysshe ;  J^en  take  almaunde  mylke  & 
flowre  of  Rys,  and  Sugre  an  Safroun,  &  boyle  it  alle  y-fere;  )en  caste  j^in  ^ 
sewe  on  j^in^  lechys,  &  serue  forth  alle  bote. 

''.viij.  Lette  lardes.— Take  kowe  mylke,  &  do  J^er-to  Eyroun  y-swonge; 
J?an  take  ryjt  fatte  Porke  y-sothe,  &  hew  it  smalle,  &  sethe  it  ;  take  pouder 
Gyngere,  Galyngale,  or  Pepir ;  caste  ]7er-to,  colour  it  wyth  Safroun,  &  caste 
1  A.  male.         ^  stiff.         ^  if.  28.         *  Crimme ;  crumble.         ^  Thine.         «  If.  28  bk. 


36  COOKERY   BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE   ^TAUNDEZ. 

all  Ifese  to-gederys,  &  boyle  it,  &  gadre  ]>e  croddes  to  hepe  w/t^-al ;  J^en  take 
Tppe  j^e  croddys  to  hepe  vi^ith  Ale,  &  presse  hem  on  a  clo]?e  ;  Jian  kerue  ]?er-of 
lechys,  &  Hoste  it  on  a  gredyre,  &  strawe  Sugre  y-now  alle  a-bowte ;  &  jif 
jjou  "wolt  make  J^at  on  syde  Rede,  an  ]7at  oj^er  ^elow,  Take  Pannes,  &  make  as 
I  hane  sayd,  &  coloure  J^at  on  panne  y^ith  Saunderys,  an  Jjat  other  -with 
Saifroune,  an  ley  on  a  cloj-e  to-gederys,  J^e  Eede  fyrste  on  fe  clojie,  an  [lat] 
fe  jelow  be  abouyn  l^e  Eede,  &  presse  hem  to-gederys,  &  that  on  syde  "wol 
ben  rede,  &  J^at  oj^er  jelow.  An  jif  )70w  wolt  haue  it  Motley,  take  Jre  pottys, 
&  make  letlardys  in  eche,  &  coloure  J^at  on  w«tA  Saunderys,  &  }at  oj^er  wyth 
Safroune,  &  j^e  )jrydde  on  a-nother  degre,  so  |iat  ]>ej  ben  dyuerse ;  an  when 
Jrey  boyle,  caste  al  to-gederys  in-to  on,  an  stere  hem  a-bowte  with  j^in  hond, 
&  ]?an  presse  hem,  and  he  wol  be  Motley  whan  he  ys  lechyd. 

.ix.  Mange  Moleynne. — Take  Almaundys,  an  blaunche  hem,  an  draw  ]7orw 
a  straynoure  a  J^icke  mylke  in-to  an  potte ;  J^an  take  brawn  of  a  Capoun,  an 
hew  it  smalle,  an  do  it  in  a  potte,  an  lye  it  with  Floure  of  Eys ;  an  do  j7er-to 
whyte  grece,  &  sethe  alle  to-gederys ;  an  when  it  is  y-sothe,  take  vppe  of  j^e 
fyre,  &  do  J^er-in  Sugre  y-now  ;  J^en  take  blaimchyd  Almaundys,  &  fi'ye  hem, 
&  ley  .iij.  lechys  on  a  dysshe,  &  on  euery  leche  prycke  .iij.  Almaundys;  an 
]7an  serue  it  forth. 

.X.  Vyaund  de  leche. — Take  whyte  ^''yne  a  god  quantite,  \an  putte  it  on 
a  potte ;  J^en  putte  J^er-to  raw  jolkys  of  eyroun  y-tryid,  «&;  pouder  of  clowys, 
&  pouder  canel  y-now,  an  Safroun  y-now ;  J^an  lat  it  boyle  tyl  it  be  ry^th 
chargeazmte,  an  J7en  sette  it  doun ;  &  take  an  sette  oner  a  panne  of  cowe  milke, 
&:  Jirow  Saunderys  y-nowe  J^er-on  ;  J^en  make  a  styf  poshote'  of  Ale ;  'pen  take 
fe  croddys,  an  lat  it  honge  on  a  pyn  in  a  cloj^e,  an  lat  it  cleue  euer  j^erue- 
owt ;  ^  pen  take  J>e  cawdel  f orsayd,  &  melle  hem  to-gederys  in  a  cloj^e,  with 
pe  poshotte;'^  pen  put  ]7er-on  Sugre,  Canel,  pouder  Gyngere  y-now;  presse 
hem  rp  sware,*  an  leche  it,  &  serue  it  forth. 

.xj.  Vyaund  leche. — Take  cowe  Mylke,  &  set  it  oner  pe  fyre,  &  J^row 
Jier-on  Saunderys,  &  make  a  styf  poshotte  of  Ale  ;  J^an  hang  J^e  croddys  ]7er-of 
in  a  pynnc,  in  a  fayi-e  cloj^e,  and  lat  it  ouer-renne ;  J^an  take  it  &  put  hony 
J?er-to,  &  melle  it  y-fere  ;  J'en  feche  pe  croddys  of  pe  deye,^  &  melle  hem  to- 
gederys,  &  lay  it  on  a  chesefatte  or  it  be  torne,  .iij.  fold  or  iiij.  fold,  in  lynen 
elo]7e,  &  salt  it,  &  leche  it ;  &  Jeanne  serue  it  forth. 

.xij.  Vyaund  leche. — Take  Eyroun,  pe  whyte  &  pe  pYke,  and  caste  hem 
in  a  mortor,  an  breke  hem  wyl ;  J'an  take  cowe  mylke  &  caste  ]7cr-to,  &  menge 
1  If.  29.  2  Posset.  3  Throughout  ?  *  Square.  ^  DairA-maid. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ.  37 

hem  wyl  to-geclerys ;  ]7an  put  al  in  a  panne,  &  lat  boyle  ;  &  with  ale  make  it 
to  a  poshotte  ;  J^en  hange  ]>e  croddys  in  a  pynne,  &  let  it  ouer-renne  ;  melle 
]>e  croddys  w/tAhony ;  }en.  take  j^e  bladys  of  Barlyche,  or  of  Percely,  &  sta?rtpe 
hem,  &  wrynge  ]>otw  a  cloj^e;  &  so  alle  j^e  grene,  melle  it  a-mong  fe  croddys  ; 
]7enne  take  ]ie  cruddys  ]7at  comen  fro  ]>e  deye,  melle  hem  to-gederys,  presse 
hera,  &  sprue  hem  forth  ;  an  }>e  coloure  wyl  ben  j^an  Motley. 

.xiij.  Vyaund  leche. — Take  a  gode  quantyte  of  Brawn,  an  Hony,  &  a  lytil 
brede,  &  let  sethe  to-gederys  pouder  Pepir,  Clowys,  ^  Maces,  an  Safroun,  & 
draw  it  j^orwe  a  straynoure,  &  chafe  it  a  litel,  &  caste  it  in  fayre  dysshis,  an 
let  it  kele,  &  ]7an  serue  f  [orth]. 

.xiiij.  Vyaunde  leche. — Take  Hony  a  gode  quantite;  J^en  take  pouder 
Pcpir,  &  Safroun,  &  Canel,  &  caste  ]jer-to ;  &  J^en  caste  it  on  a  dysshe,  &  let 
it  kele,  &  serue  forth. 

.XV.  Storioun-  leche. — Take  an  howe^  of  vele,  &  let  boyle,  butte  fyrst 
late  hym  ben  stepid  .ij.  or  .iij.  owrys  in  clene  "Water  to  soke  out  ]>e  blode, 
&  whan  it  is  tender  y-sothe,  take  hym  vppe  as  fast  as  ]>on  may  ;  J^an 
take  harde  jolkys  of  Eyroun  redy  sothe,  &  caste  also  ]?er-to,  &  pouder 
Pepir  y-now,  &  also  choppe  a-mong  ]7e  jynes*  of  ]ie  fete  clene  y-pikyd,  &  a 
lytil  Salt,  nowt  to  moche,  &  presse  hem  on  a  clowte  tyl  a-morwe  ^ ;  j^an  leche 
it,  &  lay  hem  in  dysshis,  an  pore  ]7er-[on]  a  quantyte  of  Venegre,  &  Pepir,  & 
Percely,  &  Oynonys  smal  mencyd,  &  serue  forth. 

.xvj.  Chare  de  wardoun  leche. — Take  Perys,  &  se]ie  ham,  &  Pike  ham  & 
stampe  ham,  &  draw  hem  Jiorw  a  straynoure,  &  lye  it  with  Bastard  ;  j^en 
caste  hem  in-to  a  potte,  &  Safroun  w^'t^-al,  and  boyle  with  Maces,  Clowes, 
pouder  Canel,  Quibibes,  &^  a  litel  pouder  Pepir,  &  Rolle  hem  vppe  with 
Brede,  ])e  cromes  with-in  ])m  hondys,  &  serue  forth. 

.xvij.  [Vyaund  leche]. — Take  calfes  fete  an  hepe,  &  lat  stepe  in  cold 

waters  ;  J^en  boyle  hem  smal ;  ]>an  take  j^e  broj^e  &  gode  Milke  of  Almaundys, 

&  choppe  j^e  Syneys'  in-to  ]>e  same  milk  rythte  smal ;  J'an  boyle  it  ouer  ])e 

fyie,  &  coloure  it  with  Saunderys,  &  put  Sugre  y-now  in-to  J^e  potte  ;  &  jif  ]>ou 

wolt  haue  hym  of  .ij.  colour,  ]7an  take  an  coloure  but  half  with  Saunderys, 

&  caste  ]7at  oj^ere  half  in  a  dysshe,  &  lat  it  kele  ;   &  whan  it  is  cold,  ]7en  ]?at  is 

y-colouryd  with  Saunderys,  het  it,  &  euene®  melle  it  bote  ;  caste  hem  a-bouyn 

])e  oj^er,  &  lat  kele,  an  J^an  serue  forth.     Than  take  Sugre,  a  quantyte  '•'  of 

swete  Wyne,   &  Blaunche  pouder  Jier-on,  &  make  Sawce  ])er-oi;    And  so 

colde,  ley  it  in  j^e  dysshis,  be-helyd,"  &  serue  f[orth]. 

1  If.  29  bk.  2  Sturgeon.  '  Hock.  *  Sinews.  ^  To-morrow. 

6  MS.  &  an.        '  Sinews.  ^  Euenly.  ^  If.  30.  ^o  Covered. 


.38  COOKERY   BOOK,    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ. 

.xviij.  Vyaund  leche. — Take  a  Tenche,  an  steiie  hym  in  a  potte  w/tA 
Wyne ;  when  he  is  y-now,  pyke  owt  ]>e  bonys,  take  an  stampe  hem  in  a 
morter  ;  jjen  take  a  lytil  of  J^icko  Almaunde  mylke,  &  putte  ]>er-to ;  |ien  take 
hem  vppe,  &  putte  hem  in  j)e  brol^e  forsayde,  fat  it  was  y-so]7e  in,  &  J^at 
y-straynid  ;  caste  ]>eY-to  Maces,  Clowes,  ponder  Pepir,  &  Ponder  Canelle ; 
]7an  caste  Safron  J^er-to  ;  j^en  caste  him  in  a  dysshe,  &  lat  hem  kele  ;  ]>en  put 
'Vjnegre,  pouder  Gyngere,  Canel  y-now  in  ye  botmond^  j^er-of,  vnnejje 
y-helyd.^ 

.xix.  Pome  dorres. — Take  Fylettys  of  Eaw  porke,  &  grynd  hem  wyl ;  do 
Salt  [and]  pouder  Pepir  j^er-to ;  jjan  take  J^e  Whyte  of  the  Eyroun  [and] 
jjrow  ]>er-to,  &  make  hem  so  hard  Jiat  J^ey  mow  ben  Eosted  on  a  Spete ;  make 
hem  round  as  an  Appil :  make  fyre  with-owte  smoke ;  fen  take  Almaunde 
mylke,  &  y-bontyd^  floz^r,  do  hem  to-gederys;  take  Sugre,  &  putte  in  j^in*  bature; 
fen  dore  hem  w/tA  sum  grene  fing,  percely  or  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  to-geder, 
jjat  ]>ej  ben  grene  ;  &  be  wyl  war  fat  fey  ben  nowt  Browne ;  &  sum  men 
boyle  hem  in  freysshe  bro]?  or  J^ey  ben  spetid ;  &  whan  J?ey  ben  so  boylid,  ]7en 
j'ey  must  ben  sette  an  kelid,  &  Jian  Spete  hem,  &  dore  hem  w*t7i  jolkys  of 
Eyroun  y-mengyd  with  fe  Ins  of  haselle  leuys. 

.XX.  Yrchouns. — Take  Piggis  mawys,  &  skalde  hem  wel ;  take  grouwdyn 
Porke,  &  knede  it  w/tA  Spiceiye,  yvith  pouder  Gyngere,  &  Salt  &  Sugre  ;  do  it 
on  J^e  mawe,  but  fille  it  nowt  to  fulle  ;  J^en  sewe  hew*  with  a  fayre  |>rede,  & 
putte  hem  in  a  Spete  as  men  don  piggys  ;  take  blaunchid  Almaundys,  &  kerf 
hem  long,  smal,  &  scharpe,  &  frye  hem  in  grece  &  sugre ;  take  a  litel  prycke, 
&  prykke  j^e  yrchons,  An  putte  in  fe  holes  fe  Almaundys,  every  hole  half, 
&  eche  fro  oj^er ;  ley  hem  J^en  to  fe  fyre  ;  when  fej  ben  rostid,  dore  hem  sum 
wyth  ^  Whete  Flowre,  &  mylke  of  Almaundys,  sum  grene,  sum  blake  with 
Blode,  &  lat  hem  nowt  browne  to  moche,  &  s[erue]  f  [orth]. 

.xxj.  An  Entrayle. — Take  a  chepis  wombe  ;  take  Polettys  y-rostyd,  &  hew 
hem;  J^en  take  Porke,  chese,  &  Spicery,  &  do  it  on  a  morter,  &  grynd  alle 
y-fere  ;  Jien  take  it  vppe  with  Eyrouw  y-swonge,  &  do  in  J^e  wombe,  &  Salt,  & 
se|ie  hem  tyl  he  be  y-nowe,  &  serue  forth. 

.xxij.  For  to  make  floure  Rys. — Take  Pys,  an  lese  hem  clene ;  j^en  drow 
hem  wyl  in  J^e  Sonne,  Jiat  j'ey  ben  drye ;  j'an  bray  hem  smal  y-now ;  &  j^erow 
a  crees  bunte  syfte  hem,  &  for  defaute  of  a  bonte,  take  a  Renge.^ 

.xxiij.  Pome-Garnez. — Take  lene  Eaw  Porke,  &  lene  raw  Flesshe  of 
hennys,  &  raw  eyroun?,  &  rent  fe  flesshe  fro  fe  bonys,  &  hew  it  smal ;  take 
I  Bottom.     '  Scarcely  covered.     ^  Bolted,  sifted.     *  Thine.     ^  If.  30  bk.     «  Eiag  strainer. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ.         39 

Jeanne  Salt,  Gyngere,  &  Safroun,  Salt,  Galyngale,  J'er-of  y-now,  &  caste  it  in 
a  morter,  &  bray  it  smal ;  take  Jian  Jiin  fleysshe,  &  caste  it  in-to  ]>at  morter  to 
])e  Spyceiy,  &  ]7at  it  be  wyl  y-grounde  ;  Jianne  make  J^er-of  pelettys,  as  it  were 
Applys,  be-twene  ]>m  hondys  ;  loke  ]>om  haue  a  fayre  panne  sething  ouere  ];e 
fyre,  &  do  J^er-on  J^in  pelettys,  &  late  hem  nowt  sethe  to  swythe,  &  J>an  lat 
hem  kele ;  &  whan  ]>cj  ben  cold,  jif  hem  a  fayre  spete  of  haselle,  &  be-twyn 
euery,  loke  ]>eY  be  an  ynche,  &  lay  hem  to  j^e  fyre  :  &  J^an  make  ]>m  baturys, 
J)e  on  grene,  &  J'at  o|;er  jelow ;  ])e  grene  of  Percely. 

.xxiiij.  WaflEres. — Take  j^e  Wombe  of  A  luce,  &  se]>e  here  wyl,  &  do  it  on 
a  morter,  &  tender  chese  ]?er-to,  grynde  hem  y-fere ;  J^an  take  flowre  an 
•whyte  of  Eyroun  &  bete  to-gedere,  J^en  take  Sugre  an  ponder  of  Gyngere,  & 
do  al  to-gederys,  &  loke  J^at  J^in  Eyroun  ben  bote,  &  ley  J^er-on  of  j^in 
paste,  &  ]7an  make  j>in  "waffrys,  &  serue  yn. 

\xxv.  Hagws  of  a  schepe. — Take  ]>e  Roppis'^  with  j^e  taloMr,^  &  parboyle 
hem ;  ]?an  hakke  hem  smal ;  grynd  pepir,  &  Safroun,  &  brede,  &  plkys  of 
Eyroun,  &  Raw  kreme  or  swete  Mylke  :  do  al  to-gederys,  &  do  in  ]>e  grete 
wombe  of  j^e  Schepe,  J^at  is,  the  mawe ;  &  jian  se]?e  hym  an  serue  forth  yune. 

xxyj.  Frawnchemyle. — IVym  Eyroun  w/t/i  Ipe  whyte,  &  gratid  Brede,  & 
chepis  talow.  Also  grete  as  dyse ;  nym  Pepir,  Safroun,  &  grynd  alle  to- 
gederys,  &  do  in  j'e  wombe  of  J^e  chepe,  J^at  is,  ]>e  mawe ;  &  se]7e  hem  wyl, 
&  serue  forth. 

xxvij.  Appraylere. — Take  j^e  fleysshe  of  j^e  lene  Porke,  &  sej^e  it  wel :  & 
•whan  it  is  so]7e,  hew  it  smal ;  nym  J^an  Safroun,  Gyngere,  Canel,  Salt, 
Galyngale,  old  chese,  myid  *  Brede,  &  bray  it  smal  on  a  morter ;  caste  j^in  ^ 
fleysshe  in  to  pe  spicery,  &  loke  l^at  it  be  wil  y-ground,  &  temper  it  vppe 
with  raw  Eyroun ;  ]7an  take  a  longe  Pecher,  al  a-bowte  ouer  alle  pat  it  be 
ransched;^  ]7an  held '  out  J^in  grece,  &  fulle  J^i  Pechir  of  J^in  farsure,  &  take 
a  pese  of  fayre  Canneuas,  &  doble  it  as  moche  as  pon  may  ceuyr  pe  mouj^e 
■with-al,  &  bynd  it  fast  a-bowte  pe  berde,^  &  caste  hym  to  sej^e  with  jjin 
grete  Fleysshe,  in  lede  oj^er  in  Cauderoun,  for  it  be  wyl  so]7in ;  take  J^en 
yppe  j^in  Pecher,  &  broke  it,  an  saf  ]'in  farsure ;  &  haue  a  fayre  broche, 
&  broche  it  porw,  &  lay  it  to  pe  fyre ;  &  pan  haue  a  gode  Bature  of 
Spicerye,  Safroun,  Galyngale,  Canel,  &  per-oi  y-now,  &  flowre,  &  grynd 
smal  in  a  morter,  &  temper  it  vp  with  raw  Eyroun,  &  do  ]jer-to  Sugre  of 
Alisaunder  ^  y-now ;  &  euer  as  it  dryit,  baste  it  with  bature,  &  sette  forth 
in  seruyce. 

Mf.  31.  2  Guts.  3  Tallow;  fat.  *  Crumbed.  *  Tbine. 

^  Einsed.  '  Cast.  ^  Rim.  ^  Alexandria. 


40  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS,    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ. 

.xxviij.  Cokyntryce. — Take  a  Capoun,  &  skald  hym,  &  di-aw  hem  clene, 
&  smyte  hem  a-to  in  J^e  waste  ouerj^wart ;  take  a  Pigge,  &  skald  hym,  & 
draw  hym  in  ]>e  same  maner,  &  smyte  hem  also  in  ]>e  waste ;  take  a  nedyl 
&  a  ]>vede,  &  sewe  fe  fore  partye  of  the  'Capoun  to  j^e  After  parti  of  J^e 
Pygge ;  &  ]>e  fore  partye  of  ]>e  Pigge,  to  ]>e  hynder  party  of  j^e  Capoun,  & 
Jan  stuffe  hem  as  ]jou  stuffyst  a  Pigge ;  putte  hem  on  a  spete,  &  Roste  hym  : 
&  whan  he  is  y-now,  dore  hem  with  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  ponder  Gyngere  & 
Safroun,  J^enne  wyth  ])e  Ins  of  Pcreely  w/tA-owte ;  &  Jian  serue  it  forth 
for  a  ryal  mete. 

.xxix.  Milke  Rostys. — Take  swete  Mylke,  an  do  it  in  a  panne;  take 
Eyroun  with  alle  ]ie  whyte,  &  swenge  hem,  &  caste  Jier-to ;  colo?/r  it  with 
Safroun,  &  boyle  it  so  ]7at  it  wexe  J^ikke ;  j^an  draw  it  J^orw  a  straynoure, 
&  nym  that  leuyth,*  &  presse  it :  &  whan  it  is  cold,  larde  it,  &  schere  on 
schevres,^  &  roste  it  on*  a  Gredelle,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.XXX.  Alows  de  Beef  or  de  Moto«<ii. — Take  fayre  Bef  of  ]>e  quyschons,^  & 
motoun  of  j^e  bottes,  &  kytte  in  )^e  maner  of  Stekys ;  J^an  take  raw  Percely, 
&  Oynonys  smal  y-scredde,  &  plkys  of  Eyroun  soj^e  hard,  &  Marow  or 
swette,  &  hew  alle  ]>es  to-geder  smal ;  j^an  caste  ]7er-on  poudere  of  Gyngere  & 
Saffroun,  &  tolle  hem  to-gederys  with  j>in  hond,  &  lay  hem  on  |^e  Stekys 
al  a-brode,  &  caste  Salt  l^er-to ;  fen  rolle  to-gederys,  &  putte  hem  on  a  round 
spete,  &  roste  hem  til  ]>ej  ben  y-now ;  jmn  lay  hem  in  a  dysshe,  &  pore 
J^er-on  Vynegre  &  a  lityl  verious,  &  ponder  Pepir  ])er-on  y-now,  &  Gyngere, 
&  Canelle,  &  a  fewe  plkys  of  hard  Eyroun  y-krerayd  'per-on  ;  &  serue  forth. 

.xxxj.  To  make  Stekys  of  vensou)  or  bef. — TakeVenyson  or  Bef,  &  leche 
&  gredyl  it  vp  broun ;  J^en  take  Yynegre  &  a  litel  verious,  &  a  lytil  "Wyne, 
&  putte  pouder  perpir  jier-on  y-now,  and  ponder  Gyngere ;  &  atte  j>e  dressoure 
straw  on  pouder  Canelle  y-now,  l^at  ]>e  stekys  be  al  y-helid  j^er-wyth,  &  but 
a  litel  Sawce  ;  &  ]>an  serue  it  forth. 

•xxxij.  A  Siryppe  "pur  vn  pestelle. — Take  gode  Wyne,  &  a-lye  yt  ^with 
raw  jolkys  of  Eyroun ;  J^an  late  hem  boyle  to-gederys  a  whyle ;  ]7en  put 
pouder  Pepir,  &  jirow  it  }7er-on ;  loke  ]>at  it  be  bytyng  of  Pepir.  Take 
Clowys,  macys,  Safroun,  &  caste  ]>er-to ;  &  atte  jie  dressoure  j^orw  on  jjin 
Sirip  on  ])i  pestelle,  &  kreme  hard  plkys  of  Eyroun  ]>er-to,  &  serue  forht. 

.xxxiij.  Pygge  y-farsyd. — Take  raw  Eyroun,  &  draw  hem  ))orw  a  strayn- 
oure ;  J;an  grate  fayre  brede ;  take  Safroun  &  Salt,  &  pouder  of  Pepir,  & 
Swet  of  a  schepe,  &  melle  alle  to-gederys  in  a  fayre  bolle ;  fen  broche  J^in 

1  If.  31  bk.  2  Take  what  remains.  ^  Shivers;  thin  strips. 

*  MS.  ($•  on.  s  Cushions.  «  If.  32. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ.  41 

Pygge ;  ]?eii  farce  hym,  &  sewe  ]>e  hole,  &  lat  hym  roste ;  &  j^an  Si?rue 
forth. 

.xxxiiij.  Poddyng  of  Capou«  necke. — Take  Percely,  gysour,  &  ]>e  leuer 
of  ])e  herte,  &  perboyle  in  fayre  water ;  j^au  choppe  hem  smal,  &  put  raw 
plkys  of  Eyroun  .ij.  or  .iij.  ]ier-to,  &  choppe  iov--with.  Take  Maces  & 
Clowes,  &  put  ];er-to,  &  Safroun,  &  a  lytil  pouder  Pepir,  &  Salt;  &  fille 
hym  vppc  &  sew  hym,  &  lay  him  a-long  on  J^e  capon  Eakke,  &  prycke  hym 
J>cr-on,  and  roste  hym,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.XXXV.  Capoun  or  gos  farced. — Take  Percely,  &  Swynys  grece,  or  Sewet 
of  a  schepe,  &  parboyle  hem  to-gederys  til  J^ey  ben  tendyr;  J^an  take 
harde  plkys  of  Eyroun,  &  choppe  for-w/tA ;  caste  ])er-to  Pouder  Pepir, 
Gyngere,  Canel,  Safroun,  &  Salt,  &  grapis  in  tyme  of  jere,  &  clowys 
y-nowe  ;  &  for  defawte  of  grapis,  Oynons,  fyrst  wil  y-boylid,  &  afterward 
alle  to-choppyd,  &  so  stufFe  hym  &  roste  hym,  &  serue  hym  forth.  And 
jif  ]70  lust,  take  a  litil  Porke  y-sode,  &  al  to-choppe  hit  smal  a-mong  )7«t 
o|ier ;  for  it  wol  be  J^e  better,  &  namely  ^  for  ]>e  Capoun. 

.xxxvj.  Pokerounce. — Take  Hony,  &  caste  it  in  a  potte  tyl  it  wexe 
chargeaunt  y-now ;  take  &  skeme  it  clene.  Take  Gyngere,  Canel,  &  Galyn- 
gale,  &  caste  ]>er-to  ;  take  whyte  Brede,  &  kytte  to  trenchours,^  &  toste  ham ; 
take  j^in  paste  whyle  it  is  hot,  &  sprede  it  vppe-^on  j^in  trenchourys  with 
a  spone,  &  plante  it  with  Pynes,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.xxxvij.  Sauoge. — Take  Pigis  fete  clene  y-pekyd;  J^an  tak  Freysshe  brojje 
of  Beff,  &  draw  mylke  of  Almaundys,  &  J^e  Piggys  J^er-in  ;  j^en  mence 
Sawge ;  |ian  grynd  hym  smal,  &  draw  owt  j^e  lus  ]>oyw  a  straynoure  ;  J^an 
take  clowys  y-now,  &  do  j^er-in  pouder  Gyngere,  &  Canelle,  Galyngale, 
Vynegre,  &  Sugre  y-now  ;  Salt  it  |ian,  &  Jeanne  serue  forth. 

.xxxviij.  A  Kyde  a-Forsyde. — Take  a  pigge,  &  make  hym  clene,  and 
Skynne  hym,  &  Pylle  it  fill  of  suche  mete  as  J^ou  dost  a  capoun ;  ]7an  take 
])e  fleysshe,  &  vntrusse  hym  on  a  spete,  in  ]>e  maner  of  a  kede,  &  roste  hym ; 
&  endore  hym  with  jolkys  of  Eyroun  as  an  kede,  &  Jian  serue  forth. 

.xxxix.  Eyroun  in  lentyn. — Take  Eyroun,  &  blow  owt  ]7at  ys  with-ynne 
atto  o]7er  ende ;  ]7an  waysshe  ]>e  schulle  clene  in  warme  "Water ;  J^an  take  gode 
mylke  of  Almaundys,  &  sette  it  on  ]>e  fyre ;  J7an  take  a  fayre  canvas,  &  pore 
jie  mylke  per-on,  &  lat  renne  owt  ]>e  water;  ]>en  take  it  owt  on  ];e  clo]7e,  & 
gader  it  to-gedere  with  a  platere  ;  ]>en  putte  sugre  y-now  jier-to  ;  ]7an  take  ]7e 
halvyndele,  &  colour  it  with  Safroun,  a  lytil,  &  do  J^er-to  pouder  Canelle ; 
1  MS.  a  tiainely,  ^  two  trenchers,  big  slices.  ^  If.  32  bk. 


42  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ. 

J^an  take  &  do  of  ]>e  whyte  in  the  ne]>er  ende  of  ]>e  schulle,  &  in  fe  myddel 
]>e  pYk,  &  fylle  it  vppe  'with  j>e  whyte  ;  but  nojt  to  f ulle,  for  goyng  ouer  ;  Jian 
sette  it  in  j>e  fyre  &  roste  it,  &  seme  f[ortli]. 

.xl.  Puddyng^  of  p»/-paysse. — Take  ])e  Blode  of  hym,  &  ]>e  grece  of  liym 
self,  &  Ote-mele,  &  Salt,  &  Pepir,  &  Gyngere,  &  melle  j^ese  to-gederys  "wel, 
&  J^an  putte  ]>is  in  j>c  Gutte  of  ]>e  purpays,  &  J^an  lat  it  sej^e  csyli,  &  not 
hard,  a  good  whylys ;  &  j^an  take  hyni  vppe,  &  broyle  hym  a  lytil,  &  j^an 
sertie  f[orth]. 

.xli.  RaynoUej. — IS'yrn  sode  Porke  &  chese,  &  sej^e  y-fere,  &  caste  J^er-to 
gode  ponder  Pepir,  Canelle,  Gyngere,  Clowes,  Mac[e]^,  ^an  close  J^in  comade 
in  dow,  &  frye  it  in  freysshe  grece  ryjt  wel ;  an  Jeanne  serue  it  forth. 

.xlij.  Froyse  in  lentynne. — Take  "Fygis  &  Eoysonys,  &  grynde  hem  in  a 
mortere,  &  draw  vppe  •with  kreme  of  Almaundys ;  j^an  take  Rys  Jjorw  a 
clo]?e ;  J^an  take  ]>e  Luce,  an  jie  Perche,  &  ]>e  Schrympe,  &  sejie  hem,  &  do 
a- way  ]>e  bonys,  &  Jie  hedys,  &  grynde  hem  in  an  Mortere,  &  draw  hym  vppe 
w/tA  ]>e  creme  of  ]>e  Almaundys ;  |7en  take  Rys,  &  do  hem  on  a  potte  ouer  ])e 
fyre,  "Whan  J'ey  ben  clene,  with  a  lytil  Watere,  late  hem  sej^e  til  ]>ej  ben 
drye,  &  j^at  ]>ej  schorge ;  fan  take  &  hew  on  a  horde,  &  do  j^er-to ;  J^en 
take  Sugre,  &  Safrouw  a  goode  quantyte,  &  gode  pouder,  &  caste  Jj^r-to, 
&  boyle  it  y-fere,  &  frye  it  in  oyle,  &  make  j7er-of  a  Froyse,  &  serue 
f[orth]. 

.xliij.  Payn  pur-dew. — Take  fayre  jolkys  of  Eyrouw,  &  trye  hem  fro  j^e 
whyte,  &  draw  hem  J^orw  a  straynoure,  &  take  Salt  and  caste  j^er-to ;  J^an 
take  fayre  brede,  &  kytte  it  as  troundej  rounde  ;  ]jan  take  fayre  Boter  )7at 
is  claryfiyd,  or  ellys  fayre  Freysshe  grece,  &  putte  it  on  a  potte,  &  make 
it  bote ;  j^an  take  &  wete  wyl  ]?in  troundej  in  j^e  jolkys,  &  putte  hem  in  ]>e 
panne,  an  so  frye  hem  vppe  ;  but  ware  of  cleuyng  to  the  panne ;  &  whan  it 
is  fryid,  ley  hem  on  a  dysshe,  &  ley  Sugre  y-nowe  )7er-on,  &  Jeanne  serue 
it  forht. 

•xliiij.  Meselade.2 — Take  Eyroun,  ])e  plkys  an  ])e  whyte  to-gedere,  & 
draw  hem  J^orw  a  straynoure ;  &  ]>aii  take  a  litil  Botere,  &  caste  in  a  fayre 
frying  panne ;  &  whan  Jje  boter  is  hot,  take  ]}e  drawyn  Eyroun,  &  caste 
]7er-to ;  J'an  take  a  Sawcere,  an  gadre  ]>e  Ep-oun  to-gedere  in  ]>e  panne,  as  it 
were  ])e  brede  of  a  pewter  dysshe;  &  jjan  take  fayre  pecej  of  Brede,  ]>e 
mountance  of  a  mosselle  of  Brede,  vppe-on  ]>e  Eyroun,  &  turne  J^an  [thy]^ 
brede  downward  in  ]je  panne  ;  Jeanne  *take  it  of  j^e  panne,  &  caste  fayre  whyte 
1  If.  33.  2  See  MaUsadt  in  Douce  MS.  ^  Added  from  A.  *  If.  33  bk. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HAKLEIAN   MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ.  43 

Sugre  j^er-to,  &  serue  forth ;  an  to  eueiy  good  meslade  take  a  powsand 
Eyroiin  or  mo. 

•xlv.  Brawune  fryej. — Take  Brawune,  &  kytte  it  Jiiune ;  J^an  take  J^e 
jolkys  of  Ep'oun,  &  sum  of  "pe  whyte  ]>eT-with ;  J'arL  take  mengyd  Flowre,  an 
draw  ]>e  Eyroun  ]7orw  a  straynoure ;  yen  take  a  gode  quantyte  of  Sugre, 
Saferoun,  &  Salt,  &  caste  ^/er-to,  &  take  a  fayre  panne  with  Freyssche  gres, 
&  set  ouer  j^e  fyre ;  &  wlian  ]>e  grece  is  bote,  take  J7e  Brawn,  an  putte  in 
bature,  &  turne  it  wyl  J^cr-yn,  an  J^an  putte  it  on  ]>e  panne  with  ]>e  grece, 
&  late  frye  to-gederys  a  lytil  wliyle ;  j^an  take  it  vppe  in-to  a  fap"e  dyssche, 
&  caste  Sugre  J>er-on,  &  ]7an  serue  forth. 

.xlvj.  Longe  Fretoure. — Take  Milke,  an  make  fayre  croddes  ])er-oi,  in  ]>e 
maner  of  a  chesc  al  tendyr ;  J^an  take  owt  ]>c  whey  as  clene  as  ]>ou.  may,  & 
putte  it  on  a  bolle ;  l^an  take  jolkys  of  Eyroun  &  Ale,  &  nienge  floure,  &  cast 
j7er-to,  a  gode  quantyte,  &  draw  it  Jjorw  a  straynoure  in-to  a  fayre  vesselle ; 
]7an  take  a  panne  with  fayre  grece,  &  hete  it  on  ]>e  fyre,  but  lat  it  nowt 
boyle,  &  Jian  ley  J'in  creme  a  brode;  J^an  take  a  knyff,  &  kytte  a  quantyte 
j^er-of  fro  J^e  horde  in-to  ]>e  panne,  &  efte  a-noj^er,  &  let  it  frye ;  &  whan 
it  is  brownne,  take  it  vppe  in-to  a  fayre  dyssche,  and  caste  Sugre  y-now 
]7er-on,  &  serue  forth. 

.xlvij.  Rapeye. — Take  dow,  &  make  ]7er-of  a  ymne  kake ;  Jeanne  take  Fygys 
&  raysonys  smal  y-groimde,  &  temper  hem  with  Almaunde  Milke ;  take 
pouder  of  Pcpir,  &  of  Galyngale,  Clowes,  &  raenge  to-gederys,  &  ley  on  Jjin 
kake  a-long  as  bene  koddys,  &  ouer-caste  J^in  kake  to-gederys,  &  dewte  on 
j^e  eggys,  an  frye  in  Oyle,  &  serue  forth. 

.xlviij.  Ryschewys  in  lente. — Take  Fygys  &  sethe  hem  uppe  in  Ale; 
]7an  take  whan  ]7cy  ben  tendyr,  &  bray  hem  smal  on  a  Mortere;  'j^an  take 
Almaundys,  &  sehrede  hem  fer-to  smal ;  take  Perys,  &  schrede  hem  ]>er-to ; 
take  datys,  &  schrede  hem  J^er-to  ;  &  nym  Milwel  or  lenge,  jjat  is  wel 
y-wateryd,  &  tese  Jier-to ;  j^an  make  Jiin  farsure,  &  rolle  a-long  in  J^in 
hond,  &  ley  hem  in  flowre ;  J^an  make  J^in  bature  with  ale  &  Floure,  & 
frye  hem  vppe  brown  in  Oyle  ;  ryjt  so,  make  round-lyke  Fretourys  in  ]>q 
maner  be-for-sayd,  &  frye  hem  vppe,  &  J^at  ben  y-clepid  Eagons,  &  ]7anne 
serue  hem  forth. 

.xlix.  Hanoney. — Take  an  draw  J-e  Whyte  &  ])e  ^olkys  of  ]>e  Eyroun  ]7orw 
a  straynoure  ;  J-an  take  OjTionys,  &  schrede  hem  smal ;  Jian  take  fayre  Boter 
or  grece,  &  vnnej^e  kyuer  J^e  panne  |7er-w/t/i,  an  frye  fe  Oynonys,  &  J^an 
caste  j^e  Eyroun  in  J^e  panne,  &  breke  j^e  Eyrouns  &  ]>e  Oynonys  to-gederys; 

1  leaf  34 


44  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ. 

an  ]7an  lat  hem  frye  to-geclerys  a  litel  -svhyle ;   J^an  take  hem  vp,  an  serue 
forth  alle  to-broke  to-gederys  on  a  fayre  dyssche. 

.1.  Hagas  de  Almaynne. — Take  Fayre  Ep^oun,  ]>e  jolke  &  j^e  Whyte,  & 
draw  hem  J^orw  a  strayuo;<r ;  j^an  take  Fayre  Percely,  &  parboyle  it  in  a 
potte  ■with  boyling  broj^e ;  j^an  take  ]>e  plkys  of  Eyroun  hard  y-sothe,  & 
hew  ]>e  plkys  &  ]>e  Percely  smal  to-gederys ;  j^an  take  Sugre,  pouder 
Gyngere,  Salt,  &  caste  J^er-to ;  j^en  take  merow,  &  putte  it  on  a  straynourys 
ende,  &  lat  hange  in-to  a  boyling  potte  ;  &  parboyle  it,  &  take  it  vppe,  & 
let  it  kele,  &  Jian  kytte  it  in  smal  pecys ;  ]>an  take  j>e  drawyn  Eyroun, 
&  put  hem  in  a  panne  al  a-brode,  &  vnnej7e  ony  grece  in  ]>e  panne,  &  cowche 
ye  jolkys  &  ]>e  Percely  J^er-on  in  fe  panne,  &  J^an  cowche  of  ])e  Marow  pecys 
jjer-on,  &  j/an  fold  vppe  eche  kake  by-nej^e  eche  corner  in  .iiij.  square,  as 
platte,  and  turne  it  on  J^e  panne  onej ;  let  lye  a  litel  whyle ;  J'an  take  it  yp 
&  serue  f[orth]. 

Mj.  Cryspej. — Take  "Whyte  of  Eyi-oun,  Mylke,  &  Floure,  &  a  lytel  Berme, 
&  bete  it  to-gederys,  &  draw  it  jjorw  a  straynoure,  so  ]iat  it  be  renneng,  & 
not  to  styf,  &  caste  Sugre  ]7er-to,  &  Salt ;  Jeanne  take  a  chafer  ful  of  freysshe 
grece  boyling,  &  put  ];in  bond  in  ]>e  Bature,  &  lat  )?in  bature  renne  dowun 
by  j^in  fyngerys  in-to  j>e  chafere  ;  &  whan  it  is  ronne  to-gedere  on  jie  chafere, 
»&  is  y-now,  take  &  nym  a  skymer,  &  take  it  vp,  &  lat  al  ]>e  grece  renne 
owt,  &  put  it  on  a  fayre  dyssghe,  &  cast  ]7er-on  Sugre  y-now,  &  serue  forth. 

.lij.  Ryschewys  of  Marow. — Take  fayre  Flowre  &  raw  jolkys  of  Eyroun, 
&  Sugre,  &  Salt,  &  pouder  of  Gyngere,  &  Safroun,  &  make  fayre  cakes ;  & 
I'an  take  marow,  Sugre,  &  pouder  of  Gyngere,  &  ley  it  on  J^in  cake,  &  fold 
hem  to-gederys,  &  kytte  hem  in  ]>e  maner  of  Eysschewes,  &  frye  hem  in 
freyssche  grece,  &  Jeanne  serue  forth. 

.Iiij.  Lesynges  de  chare. — Take  fajrre  Buttys  of  Porke;  hewe  hem,  & 
grynd  hem,  &  caste  j^er-to  Eaw  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  Jien  putte  it  in-to  a 
fayre  Vesselle;  &  take  Eoysonys  of  corauws,  &  dates  myncyd,  &  pouder 
of  Gyngere,  Pepir,  &  Safroun,  &  Sugre,  an  melle  all  J^es  to-gederys;  & 
make  fayre  past  of  Sugre  &  Safroun,  &  Salt  ;  temper  j^er-in,  &  make 
•ij.  fayre  flat  cakys  fier-of,  &  lay  ]>e  stuf  j^er-on  al  a-brode  on  j^e  cake  al 
flat ;  &  J'an  take  |iat  oj^er  cake,  &  lay  hym  al  a-brode  j^er-on ;  &  Jian  kytte 
[the]  cakys  jjorw  with  an  knyf  in  maner  of  lesyngys ;  &  J'an  make  fayre 
bature  of  Raw  plkys  of  Eyroun,  Sugre,  &  Salt,  &  close  ]>e  sydys  of  j^e 
lesyngj  ]>er-with,  &  j^an  frye  hem  in  fayre  grece,  &  serue  forth. 

.liiij.  Fretoiire. — Take  whete  floure.  Ale  jest,  Safroun,  &  Salt,  &  bete 

1  leaf  34  bk. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ.  45 

alle  to-gederys  as  J^ikke  as  ])on  schuldyst  make  o])er  bature  in  fleyssche 
tyme ;  &  ]>an  take  fayre  Applys,  &  kut  hem  in  manner  of  Pretouiys,  &  wete 
hem  in  ]>e  bature  vp  on  downne,  &  frye  hem  in  fayre  Oyle,  &  caste  hem 
in  a  dyssche ;  &  caste  Sugr^  jjer-on,  &  serue  forth. 

.Iv.  Chawettys  Fryidde. — Take  &  make  fayre  past  of  flowre  &  -water, 
Sugre,  &  Safroun,  &  Salt ;  &  J^an  make  fayre  round  cofyns  Jier-of ;  &  J^en 
fylle  j'in  cofyns  ^y^th  ]>m  stuf,  &  keuere  J^in  cofyns  w/tA  j^e  same  past, 
&  frye  hem  in  gode  Oyle,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.Ivj.  Tansye. —  Take  fayre  Tansye,  &  grynd  in  a  morter ;  Jeanne  take 
Eyroun,  j^e  jolkys  &  ]>e  whyte,  &  stray  [ne]  hem  J^orw  a  straynoure ;  & 
strayne  also  ]>e  lus  of  ]>e  Tansye,  &  melle  to-gederes ;  &  take  fayre  Freysche 
grece,  &  put  J^er-on  ouer  j>e  fyre,  tylle  it  melte  ;  j^an  caste  ])e  stuf  J^er-on,  & 
gadere  to-gedere  vcith  a  Sawcer  or  a  dysshe,  as  Jjou  wolt  it,  lasse  oj^er  more, 
&  turne  it  in  ]'e  pawne ;  &  j^an  serue  it  forth. 

.Ivij.  Froyse  out  of  Lentyn. — Take  Eyroun  &  draw  J^e  pikes  &  J^e  whyte 
Jiorw  a  straynoure ;  J^an  take  fayre  Bef  or  vele,  &  sethe  it  tyl  it  be  y-now ; 
])an  hew  cold  o])er  bote,  &  melle  togederys  fe  eggys,  J^e  Bef,  or  vele,  & 
caste  ]7er-to  Safroun,  &  Salt,  &  ponder  of  Pepir,  &  melle  it  to-gederys ;  Jjan 
take  a  fayre  Frying-panne,  &  sette  it  ouer  l^e  fyre,  &  caste  J;er-on  fayre 
freysshe  grece,  &  make  it  hot,  &  caste  ]>e  stuf  ]>eT-on,  &  store  it  wel  in 
Jie  panne  tyl  it  come  to-gedeiys  wel ;  cast  on  fe  panne  a  dysshe  &  presse 
it  to-gederys,  &  turne  it  onys,  &  )>anne  serue  it  forth. 

.Iviij.  Ryschewys  close  &  Fryez. — Take  Fygys,  &  grynd  hem  smal  in  a 
mortere  w/tA  a  lytil  Oyle,  &  grynd  w«tA  hym  clowys  &  Maces ;  &  ]?an  take 
it  vppe  in-to  a  vesselle,  &  cast  )?er-to  Pynez,  Saundrys,  &  Roysonys  of 
Coraunce,  &  mencyd  Datys,  Ponder  Pepir,  Canel,  Salt,  Safroun ;  -];an  take 
fyne  past  of  flowre  an  water,  Sugre,  Safroun,  &  Salt,  &  make  fap'e  cakys 
]>er-oi;  J^an  rolle  J^in  stuf  in  l^in  bond,  &  couche  it  in  J-e  cakys,  &  kyt 
it,  &  folde  hym  as  Ruschewys,  &  frye  hem  vppe  in  Oyle ;  and  serue 
forth  bote. 

.lix.  'Nese  Bekys. — Take  Fygys  &  grynd  hem  wel ;  j>an  take  F[re]yssche  * 
Samoun  &  goode  Freysscbe  Elys  wyl  y-sothe,  &  pyke  owt  Jie  bonys,  & 
grynd  ]>e  Fyssche  vfith  ]>e  Fygis,  &  do  j^er-to  powder  Gyngere,  Canelle ;  & 
take  fayre  past  [of]^  Flowre,  &  make  fayre  cakys  ryth  J^inne,  &  take  of  ]>e 
fars,  &  lay  on  ]>e  cake,  &  close  'with  a-no)7er ;  ]>en  take  a  Sawcere,  &  skoure  ]>e 
sydis,  &  close  ]>e  cake,  &  Frye  hem  wyl  in  Oyle ;  &  jif  ]>ou  wolt  bane  hym 
1  leaf  35.     -  leaf  35  bk.     3  p  jis.  N  or  M.    ^  MS.  Fi/ssehe  ;  A.  fresshe.    ^  o/ added  from  A. 


46  COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    LECHE    VYAUNDEZ. 

partye,  coloiire  hym  -with  Safroun,  Percely,  &  Sawnderys ;  &  serue  forth,  for 
a  gode  fryid  mete. 

•Ix.  Mylej  in  Rapeye. — Take  Fygys  &  wasclie  hem  clene,  and  boyle  hem  in 
"wyne,  &  grynd  hem  smal,  &  draw  hem  vppe  'with  ])e  Wyne  J^at  J^ey  were 
sothyn  in  ;  Jian  take  flowre  of  Rys,  &  Wyne,  &  draw  Jiorw  a  straynoure,  &  do 
]7er-to  ponder  Gjnger,  Canelle,  Macej,  Quybibej,  &  J^en  take  Freyssche 
Samoun,  o]7e[r]  Pike  or  gode  Freyssche  Codlyng  ;  sej^e  it  wyl,  &  pike  owt  ]>e 
bonys;  j'an  take  perys  y-coryd,  &  grynde  hem  ryjth  smal  &  wyl  -with  ]>e 
Fyssche ;  Jian  take  hard  plkys  of  Eyroun  soj^in,  &  grynd  it  wyth-al,  &  do  it 
in-to  yin  veselle,  &  take  wrtA  Sugre  &  ponder  Gynger,  &  meng  it  w«tA 
]>e  farcere  ^  wyl,  &  presse  hem  to-gederys ;  J^an  make  a  gode  bature  ^  of 
Almaunde  mylke  &  Floure,  &  do  j^er-in,  &  frye  hem  wyl  in  Oyle,  &  ley 
hem  yn  a  dyssche,  &  pore  on  fe  Sew,  &  serue  forth. 

.Ixj.  Cruste  Rolle. — Take  fayre  smal  Flowre  of  whete  ;  nym  Eyroun  & 
breke  J>er-to,  &  coloure  J^e  past  with  Safroun ;  rolle  it  on  a  horde  also  Jiinne 
as  prtrchement,  rounde  a-bowte  as  ^an  oblye  ;  *  frye  hem,  &  serue  forth  ;  and 
]?us  may  do  in  lente,  but  do  away  ])q  Eyroun,  &  nym  mylke  of  Almaundys,  & 
frye  hem  in  Oyle,  &  j^en  serue  forth. 

.Ixij.  Chawettys  a-forsed. — Take  Merybonys  &  Porke;  hew  it  an  Eaw 
plkys  of  Eyroun,  &  melle  to-gederys  -with  ponder  Canelle,  Pepir,  Gyngere, 
&  Safroun,  &  Sugre  y-now  ;  kyuere  hem,  frye  hem  vp  in  Grece,  &  seme  forth. 
.Ixiij.  Fretoure  owt  of  lente. — Take  Flowre,  Milke,  &  Eyroun,  &  grynd 
Pepir  &  Safroun,  &  make  J^er-of  a  bature;  pare  Applys,  &  ster  hem,  &  frye 
hem  vppe. 

.Ixiiij.  Towres. — Take  &  make  a  gode  ]?ikke  bature  of  jolkys  of  Eyroun, 
&  marow  y-now  \ier-on,  ponder  pepir,  Macej,  clowes,  Safroun,  Sugre,  & 
Salt;  &  jif  jpou  wolt,  a  litel  soj^e  Porke  or  vele  y-choppid;  j^er-to  take  jten 
]>e  whyte  of  Eyroun,  &  strayne  hem  in-to  a  boUe ;  J^an  putte  a  lytil  SafFroiin 
&  Salt  to  J7e  whyte,  &  sette  a  panne  with  grece  ouer  fe  fyre,  &  he-war  J^at 
l^in  grece  be  nowt  to  bote;  Jian  putte  a  litel  of  ]>e  "Whyte  comade  in  ]>e 
panne,  &  late  flete  al  a-brode  as  ]70u  makyst  a  pancake ;  j'en,  whan  it  is 
sumwhat  styf,  ley  j^in  comade  of  |iin  Eyroun,  J7at  is  to  saying,  of  j^e  plkys, 
in  ]>e  myddel,  &  caste  by  ]>e  cake  round  a-bowte,  &  close  hym  foure-square,  & 
fry  hem  vp,  &  seme  hem  forth  for  Sopeiys  in  Somere.*^ 

'  Farcure  ;  stuffing.  ^  MS.  a  gode  a  bature  gode.  '  leaf  36. 

*  Oble,  sacramental  wafer.  ^  four  pages  and  a  quarter  blank  here  in  the  MS. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    DYUERSE    BAKE    METIS.       47 

^HERE  BEGYNNYTH  DYUERSE   BAKE   METIS. 

.1.  Tartes  de  chare. — Take  Freyssche  Porke,  &  hew  it,  &  grynd  it  on 
a  mortere  ;  &  take  it  vppe  in-to  a  fayre  vesselle  ;  &  take  J^e  whyte  an  Jie  jolkys 
of  Eyroun,  &  strayne  into  a  Yesselle  forw  a  straynoure,  &  tempere  ]7in 
Porke  jier-with;  ]7an  take  Pynez,  Roysonys  of  Coraunce,  &  frye  hem  in 
freysshe  grece,  &  caste  ]>er-to  ponder  Pepir,  &  Gyngere,  Canelle,  Sugre, 
Safroun,  &  Salt,  &  caste  ])er-to,  &  do  it  on  a  cofynne,  &  plante  j^in  cofynne 
a-boue  with  Pynej,  &  kyt  Datys,  &  gret  Roysonys,  &  smal  byrdys,  or  ellys 
hard  jolkys  of  Eyronn ;  &  jif  ]>ou  take  byrdys,  frye  hem  on  a  lytel  grece  or 
J70W  puttc  hem  on  yin  cofynne,  &  endoro  yvith  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  Safroun, 
&  lat  bake  til  it  be  y-now,  &  serue  forth. 

.ij .  A-noj^er  manere. — Take  Eygys,  Roysonys,  &  Porke,  &  a  lytel  brede 
y-ground  y-fere ;  take  hym  vppe,  &  put  Pepir  y-now  j^er-to,  &  Macej, 
Clowys,  &  make  |?in  cofyn,  &  putte  J^in  comade  J^er-on. 

.iij.  A-no]7er  manere. — Tak  fayre  porke  y-broylid,  &  grynd  it  smal  w/'tA 
jolkys  of  Eyroun ;  ]>an  take  Pepir,  Gyngere,  &  grynd  it  smal,  &  melle  it 
Wit/i-al,  &  a  lytel  hony,  &  floryssche  ])in  cofyns  w/tA-ynne  &  w/t/t-owte,  & 
hele  hem  with  ]>m  ledys,^  &  late  hem  bake,  &  serue  forth. 

.iiij .  Daryoles. — Take  wyne  &  Fr[e]ssche  bro]?e,  Clowes,  Maces,  &  Marow, 
&  ponder  of  Gyngere,  &  Safroun,  &  let  al  boyle  to-gederys,  &  put  ]>er-to 
creme,  (&  jif  it  be  clowtys,  draw  it  J^orwe  a  straynoure,)  &  jolkys  of  Eyroun, 
&  melle  hem  to-gederys,  &  pore  j^e  licoure  J^at  J^e  Marow  was  sojjyn  yn 
]>er-to;  ]?an  make  fayre  cofyns  of  fayre  past,  &  put  j^e  Marow  ]>er-jn,  & 
mynce  datys,  &  strawberys  in  tyme  of  jere,  &  put  ]>e  cofyns  ^in  ]7e  ovyn, 
&  late  hem  harde  a  lytel ;  ]7an  take  hem  owt,  &  put  ]>e  licoure  };er-to,  &  late 
hem  bake,  &  senie  f[orth]. 

.V.  A-nother  manere.— Take  Pike,  Almaunde  Milke,  &  boyle  yt  j^ikkc,  & 
let  it  kele ;  |?an  take  Eyroun  &  chese,  &  grynd  y-fere,  &  do  ]'er-to ;  take 
ponder  Sugre  &  caste  ]7er-to,  &  put  in  j^iu  cofyns,  &  nojt  y-helyd,  &  bake, 
&  serue  fj_orth]. 

.vj.  Tartes  of  Fyssche. — Take  Eygys,  &  Roysoynys,  &  pike  an  sethe  in 
"Wyne ;  )7an  take  Costardys,  Perys,  &  pare  hem  clene,  &  pike  out  ]>e  core,  & 
putte  hem  in  a  morter  ^x^th  ]>e  frute  ;  j^en  tak  Codlyng  or  haddok,  ojier  Elys, 
&  se]7e  hem  &  pike  owt  ]>e  bonys,  &  grynd  alle  y-fere,  &  do  j^er-to  a  lytel 
wyne,  &  melle  to-gederys :  an  do  j^er-to  Canelle,  Clowys,  Macej,  Quybibej, 
1  If.  37  bk.  2  Lids.  3  leaf  38. 


48        COOKERY   BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN   MS.    279.    DYUERSE   BAKE    METIS. 

ponder  Gyngere,  &  of  Galyngale,  &  pepir,  &  Eoysonys  of  coraunce,  and  coloure 
it  v^ith  Safroun.  When  ]io\i  makyst  ]?in  cofyns,  J'an  take  gode  fat  Ele,  & 
culpe  hym,  &  take  owt  j^e  stonys  of  Datys,  &  farce  hem ;  &  blaunche 
Almanndys,  &  caste  J'er-to ;  but  fp'ste  frye  hem  in  Oyle,  &  couche  al  Jiis 
a-mong,  &  bete  ]>m  cofyns  vrith  ]>e  ledys,  &  bake,  &  serue  forth. 

.vij.  Chawettys. — Take  buttys  of  Vele,  &  mynce  hem  smal,  or  Porke,  & 
put  on  a  potto;  take  Wyne,  &  caste  ]^cr-to  pouder  of  Gyngere,  Pepir,  & 
Safroun,  &  Salt,  &  a  lytel  verj^ous,^  &  do  hetn  in  a  cofyn  wetA  jolkys  of 
Eyroun,  &  kutte  Datys  &  Eoysonys  of  Coraunce,  Clowys,  Macej,  &  fen  ceuere 
]>m  cofyn,  &.  Lat  it  bake  tyl  it  be  y-now. 

•Viij.  Chawettys. — Take  Porke  y-sode,  &  mencyd  Datys,  and  grynd  hem 
smal  to-gederys ;  take  jolkys  of  Ep-oun,  &  putte  j^er-to  a  gode  hepe,  &  grene 
chese  putte  J>er-to ;  &  whan  it  ys  smal  y-now,  take  Gyngere,  Cauelle,  & 
melle  wyl  fi  commade  fev-with,  &  put  in  Jjin  cofyns ;  jjan  take  jolkys  of 
Eyroun  ^hard  y-sothe,  an  kerue  hem  in  two,  &  ley  a-boue,  &  bake  hem ;  & 
so  nojt  y-closyd,  s^rue  forth. 

.ix.  Malmenye  Furnej. — Take  gode  Milke  of  Almaundys,  &  flowre  of  Rys, 
&  gode  Wyne  crete,  or  ]>e  brawn  of  a  Capoune,  o]7er  of  Fesaunte,  &  Sugre, 
&  pouder  Gyngere,  &  Galyngale,  &  of  Canelle,  &  boyle  y-fere ;  &  make  it 
chargeaunt,  &  coloure  it  with  Alkenade,  ofer-with  Saunderys  ;  &  jif  it  be  lied, 
a-lye  it  w«tA  jolkys  of  Eyroun ;  &  make  smal  cofyns  of  dow,  &  coloure 
hem  w?tA-owte,  &  bake  on  an  ovyn,  &  coloure  w^'t/«-ynne  &  wyth-oute; 
Jjen  haue  Hony  y-boylid  hote,  &  take  a  dyssche,  &  wete  |iin  dyssche  in  fe 
hony,  &  w?'t//  fe  wete  dyssche  ley  j^e  malmenye  &  ]>e  cofyns ;  &  whan  ]>ej 
ben  bake,  &  ]70u  dressest  yn,  caste  a-boue  blaunche  pouder,  Quybibej,  macej, 
Gelofrej ;  &  Jeanne  serue  it  forth. 

.X.  Rapeye. — Take  Dow,  &  make  J^er-of  a  brode  J^in  cake  ;  Jien  take  Fygys 
&  Eoysonys  smal  y-grounde,  &  fyrst  y-sode.  An  a  pece  of  Milwelle  or  lenge 
y-braid  wtth-al;  &  take  pouder  of  Pepir,  Galyngale,  Clowej,  &  mence  to- 
gedere,  &  ley  Jiin  comede  on  fe  cake  in  ]>e  manor  of  a  benecodde,  y-rollyd 
with  jjin  bond ;  Jian  ouer-caste  thy  cake  oMer  ]>i  comade,  as  it  wol  by-clippe 
hit ;  &  with  a  sawcere  brerde  go  round  as  J^e  comade  lyith,  &  kutte  hem, 
&  so  he  is  kut  &  close  with-al,  &  bake  or  frye  it,  &  Jianne  serue  it  forth. 

•xj .  Tartes  of  Frute  in  lente. — Take  Fygys  &  sethe  hem  wyl  tyl  fej  ben 
neyssche ;  J^an  bray  hem  in  a  morter,  &  a  pece  of  Milwel  ]>er-with ;  take 
ham  vppe  &  caste  roysonys  of  coraunce  fer-to ;  fan  take  Almaundys  &  Dates  ^ 
1  verjuice.  -  If.  38  bk.  ^  '  &  Dates '  interlined  by  a  later  band. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN   MS.    279.    VYAUNDE   FURNEZ.         49 

y-schred  ]>er-to;  ]>ini  take  pouder  of  Pepir  &  meng  with-al;  ])en  putte  it  on 
j^in  cofynne,  &  Safroun  J^in  cofynn  a-boue,  &  opyn  hem  a-bowte  J^e 
myddel ;  &  ouer-cast  j^e  openyng  vppon  j>e  lede/  &  bake  hym  a  lytel,  & 
serue  f[ortb]. 

Ixij.  Vn  Vyaunde  Furnej  san?  nonm  de  chare. — Take  stronge  Dow,  & 
make  a  cake  sumdele  J'icke,  &  make  it  tow ;  ]?an  take  lardej  of  Venysoun,  or 
a  here,  or  of  a  Bere,  &  kerue  hem  j^inne  as  Fylettes  of  Porke,  &  lay  ])m 
lardys  square  as  a  chekyr,  &  ley  J^er-yppe  a  tyne  y-makyd  of  Eyroun  vppe- 
on  ]>e  tyne ;  ley  J^in  farsure,  y-makyd  of  Hennys,  &  of  Porke,  of  Eyroun,  & 
myid  brede,  &  Salt,  &  chese,  yf  jjou  it  hast;  &  ]>at  it  be  makkyd  at  .iiij. 
tymes.  Eyrst  make  Jjus  fin  whyte  farsure :  grynd  in  a  mortere,  Gyngere, 
Canelle,  Galyngale ;  take  then  almaundys  &  floure  of  Rys,  and  a  party  of 
Fleysshe,  &  caste  ther-to  in  a  mortere,  &  grynd  ryjth  smal,  &  temper  it 
w/tA  Eyroun.  J^us  make  }in  ^elow  Farsure :  nym  Safroun,  Gyngere,  Canel, 
Galyngale,  Brede,  &  a  partye  of  J7in  Fleyssche,  &  grynd  it  smal  in  J>e 
mortere,  &  temper  it  vppe  with  Eyroun.  The  ]>rjd  maner  schal  ben  blake  : 
nym  Gyngere,  Canelle,  Galyngale,  Brede,  Eyroun,  &  Old  chese ;  nym  Jian 
Percely,  &  grynd  it  smal  in  a  mortere,  &  wryng  it  &  do  it  vppe ;  &  do  it 
to  j^in  Fleyssche,  &  ]>eT-with  coloure  j^in  fayre  partye  of  Fleyssche,  &  ley  a 
party  of  Jiin  Fleyssche  on  .iiij.  quarterys,  but  ]>&t  ]>e  brede  be  as  ]>ivL  cake  • 
take  ]>en  &  ley  ]jer-vppe-on  J'in  Fleyssche,  &  lay  J^er-yppe-on  a  grece  ;  a-boue 
]>m  grece  ley  ]>i  cyrey ;  nym  ]7in  J^ridde  cours  of  J^in  Flessche,  &  lay  as 
brode  as  jjin  cake,  &  j>an  grece,  &  ]7er  a-bouyn,  a  cyvey.  ^ley  Jie  iiij.  course 
of  j^in  Fleyssche  on  .iiij.  quarterys  as  brode  as  ]>m  cake,  &  )7an  grece,  & 
J'an  a-boue,  a  cyuey.  The  .v.  cours  of  j^in  Fleyssche,  ley  as  brode  as  J^ine 
cake,  &  J^en  grece,  &  jian  aboue,  a  cyuey.  I^ym  J»e  .vj.  cours,  &  lay  as  brode 
as  J^in  cake,  &  J'an  grece,  &  J^an  a  cyuey.  Nym  Je  .viij.  cours  of  ]>e 
Fleysshe,  &  lay  as  brode  as  j^in  cake  on  .iiij.  quarterys,  &  grece,  &  J^an  a 
cyvey ;  &  a  lytel  bake  hem,  &  serue  forth. 

Ixiij.  Vn  Vyaunde  furnez  san^  no?«  de  chare. — Take  flowre,  Almaunde 
milke,  &  Safroune,  &  make  J^er-of  .iiij.  tynez,  &  fiye  j^i  tynez  in  Oyle ;  nym 
\>en  Almaundys,  &  draw  J^er-of  mylke  ryjt  ]?ikke ;  nym  macej,  Quybibej,  & 
floure  of  Rys,  Canelle,  Galyngale;  take  j^enne  haddok,  Creuej,  Perchys, 
Tenchej,  &  se]>e;  whan  ]>ej  ben  sothyn,  take  Jiin  fyssche  from  ])e  bonys> 
&  bray  it  ryjt  smal  -with  I'in  Spicerye  to-gederys,  &  make  jjer-of  ]?in 
farsure.      Whan  it  is  y-makyd,  departe  it  in  .iiij.  partyis,  ]?at  o  partye 

'  lid.  ■  leaf  39.  3  leaf  39  back. 

4 


50         COOKERY   BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    VYAUNDE   EURNEZ. 

■vrhyte,  J^at  oj^er  jelow,  ]>e  Jirydde  grene,  J^e  ferj^e  blak  coloure  -with  Tygys, 
Eoysonys,  an  Datys ;  take  J^e  firste  cours  of  ]>o  Tyssche,  of  al  jie  .iiij. 
cours,  &  ley  on  ]>m  cyvey  a-bouyn  J^in  Fyssclie,  in  .iiij.  quarterys,  as  a 
cliekyr,  as  brode  as  jjin  cake,  &  caste  a-bouyn  Sugre  of  Alysaundre,  & 
J>er-vppe-on  Jjine  tyne.  Nym  an-o]7er  cours,  &  ley  on  J^i  .iiij.  quarterys 
as  brode  as  J^in  tyne,  &  j7er-vppe-[on]  J^in  Sugre.  Nym  ])e  Jirydde  cours 
of  J^in  Fysscbe,  &  ley  on  .iiij.  quarterys,  &  caste  a-boue  Sugre,  &  a  tyne. 
Nym  [J'e]  .iiij.  cours  a-cordant  to  Jiin  oj^er,  a-]7enched^  to-geder,  an  a-boue 
a  hole  as  a  rose,  &  cetera. 

.xiiij.  Pety  Pernollys. — Take  fayre  Floure,  Safroun,  Sugre,  &  Salt,  & 
make  Jier-of  past ;  j^an  make  smal  cofyns  ;  J^en  take  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  tiye 
hem  fro  ]>e  whyte ;  &  lat  J'e  jolkys  be  al  hole,  &  nojt  to-broke,  &  ley  .iij. 
or  .iiij.  zolkys  in  a  cofyn ;  and  j^an  take  marow  of  bonys,  to  or  .iij. 
gobettys,  &  cowche  in  ]>e  cofynn ;  ]>an  take  ponder  Gyngere,  Sugre, 
Koysonys  of  corauwce,  &  caste  a-boue ;  &  j^an  kyuere  J^in  cofyn  with  jie 
same  past,  &  bake  hem,  &  frye  hem  in  fayre  grece,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.XV.  Doucetej. — Take  Creme  a  gode  cupfulle,  &  put  it  on  a  straynoure ; 
fanne  take  jolkys  of  Eyroun  &  put  J^er-to,  &  a  lytel  mylke ;  \>en.  strayne  it 
]7orw  a  straynoure  in-to  a  bolle;  j^en  take  Sugre  y-now,' &  put  Jier-to,  or 
ellys  hony  forde  faute*  of  Sugre,  ]ian  coloure  it  -with  Safroun  ;  J^an  take°])in 
cofyns,  &  put  in  ]>e  ovynne  lere,  &  lat  hem  ben  hardyd ;  J^an  take  a  dysshe 
y-fastenyd  on  ])e  pelys  ende ;  &  pore  j^in  comade  in-to  j^e  dyssche,  &  fro  ])e 
dyssche  in-to  ]>e  cofyns ;  &  when  j^ey  don  a-ryse  wel,  take  hem  out,  &  serue 
hem  forth. 

.xyj.  Crustade. — Take  vele,  an  smyte  in  lytel  pecys  in-to  a  potte,  an 
wayssche  yt  fayre ;  );an  take  fayre  water,  &  lat  yt  boyle  to-gedere  with 
Percely,  Sawge,  Sauerey,  &  Tsope  smal  y-now  an  hew;  &  whan  it  is  on 
boylyng,  take  ponder  Peper,  CaneH,  Clowys,  Maces,  Safroun,  &  lat  hem 
boyle  to-gederys,  &  a  gode  dele  of  wyne  ])er-with.  "Whan  Jie  fleyssche  is 
y-boylid,  take  it  fro  ]>e  broj^e  al  clene,  &  lat  ]>e  bro]je  kele ;  &  whan  it  is 
cold,  take  Eyrouw,  ]>e  whyte  &  J^e  jolkys,  &  cast  ]7orw  a  straynoure,  &  put 
hem  in-to  the  broj^e,  so  many  J^at  'pe  hrojie  be  styf  y-now;  J^en  make  fayre 
cofyns,  &  cowche  .iij.  pecys  or  .iiij.  of  ]>e  fleyssche  in  a  cofyn;  J^an  take 
Datys,  &  kytte  hem,  &  cast  J^er-to ;  ]7an  take  ponder  Gyngere,  &  a  lytel 
verious,  &  putte  in-to  j^e  broj^e  &  Salt ;  &  J^an  putte  ]>e  bro}7e  on  J^e  cofyns, 
bake  a  lytel  with  j^e  fleyssche  or  ]iou  putte  jjin  lycoure  Jjer-on,  &  lat  al 

^  r pinched,  A.  reads,  "  a-J^enched  to-gedre  aboue  a  hole,  as  arose."  ^  leaf  40. 


COOKERY   BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN   MS.    279.    VYAUNDE    FURNEZ.         51 

bake    to-gederjs  tyl   it  be   y-now ;     Jeanne    [take]    yt    owt,    and    serue 
hem  forth. 

.xvij.  Crustade  lumbard.  —  Take  gode  Creme,  &  leuys  of  Percely,  & 
Eyroun,  ]>g  jolkys  &  ]>g  Tvhyte,  &  breke  hem  J^er-to,  &  strayne  ]7orwe  a 
straynoure,  tyl  it  be  so  styf  j^at  it  wol  here  hym-self;  ]7an  take  fayre 
Marwe,  &  Datys  y-cutte  in  .ij.  or  .iij.  &  Prune j;  &  putte  J^e  Datys  an^  Jje 
Prunej  &  Marwe  ou  a  fayre  cofynne,  y-mad  of  fayre  past,  &  put  J^e  cofyn 
on  J^e  ovyn  tyl  it  be  a  lytel  hard ;  Jeanne  draw  hem  out  of  j^e  ouyn ;  take  ];e 
lycour  &  putte  J^er-on,  &  fylle  it  vppe,  &  caste  Sugre  y-now  on,  &  Salt ' 
j>aii  lat  bake  to-gederys  tyl  it  be  y-now ;  &  jif  it  be  in  lente,  lef  Jje  Eyrou?^ 
&  fe  Marwe  out,  -  &  Jeanne  serue  it  forth. 

.xviij.  Flathons. — Take  Milke  an  plkys  of  Eyrou??,  &  draw  it  ]>otw  a 
straynoure  w?'t/i  whyte  Sugre,  oj^er  blake  Sugre,  &  mylt  fayre  hotter,  &  putte 
j'er-to,  &  Salt ;  &  make  fayre  cofyns,  &  sette  hem  on  ]>e  ouen  tyl  ]>ey  ben 
hard;  j^an  take  a  pele  with  a  dyssche  on  j^e  ende,  &  fylle  ]>e  dyssche  -with 
)7in  comade,  &  pore  in-to  j?e  cofyns,  &  lat  bake  a  lytel  whyle ;  l^an  take  hem 
out  in-to  a  fayre  dyssch,  &  cast  whyte  sugre  j^er-on,  &  serue  forth. 

.xix.  Venyson  y-bake.  —  Take  hoghes  of  Venyson),  &  parboyle  hem  in 
fayre  "Water  an  Salt ;  &  whan  ])e  Fleyssche  is  fayre  y-boylid,  make  fayre 
past,  &  cast  J'in  Venyson  Jier-on ;  &  caste  a-boue  an  be-ne|'e,  ponder  Pepir, 
Gyngere,  &  Salt,  &  |?an  sette  it  oiD  j^e  ouyn,  &  lat  bake,  &  sei-ue  forth. 

.XX.  Pety  Pernauntes. — Take  fayre  Plowre,  Sugre,  Safroun,  an  Salt,  & 
make  J^er-offe  fayre  past  &  fayre  cofynges ;  j^an  take  fayre  y-tryid  jolkys 
Raw,  &  Sugre,  an  pouder  Gyngere,  &  Raysounys  of  Coraunce,  &  myncyd 
Datys,  but  not  to  smal ;  ]>an  caste  al  Jpis  on  a  fayre  bolle,  &  melle  al  to- 
gederys,  &  put  in  f>in  cofyn,  &  lat  bake  ojjer  Frye  in  Freyssche  grece. 

.xxj.  Q,uyncis  or  Wardowns  in  past. — Take  &  make  fayre  Rounde  cofyns 
of  fayre  past ;  J^an  take  fayre  Raw  Quynces,  &  pare  hem  with  a  knyf,  &  take 
fayre  out  ]>e  core  ]>er-oi ;  J;an  take  Sugre  y-now,  &  a  lytel  pouder  Gyngere, 
&  stoppe  ]>e  hole  fulle;  &  cowche  .ij.  or  .iij.  wardonys  or  quyncej  in  a 
cofyn,  &  keuere  hem,  &  lat  hem  bake  ;  &  for  defaut  of  Sugre,  take  hony ;  but 
j^en  putte  pouder  Pepir  J?er-on,  &  Gyngere,  in  J^e  manor  be-for  sayd. 

.xxij.  Lamprojms  y-bake. — Take  lamprounys  &  skald  hem  with  [blank  in 
MS.^,  &  make  fayre  paste,  &  couche  .ij.  or  iij  lamprounys  with  pouder  of 
Gyngere,  Salt,  Pepir,  &  lat  hem  bake;    &  leche  ^Samoun  in  fayre  brode 
pecys,  &  bake  hem  in  ])e  maner  be-forsayd,  &  Jeanne  serue  forth. 
1  MS.  in.  2  leaf  40,  back.  3  jeaf  41. 


52         COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN   MS.    279.    VYAUNDE    FURNEZ. 

.xxiij.  Lamprays  bake. — Take  &  make  fayre  round  cofyns  of  fyne  past, 
&  take  Freyssche  lampreys,  &  late  hem  blode  .iij.  fyngerys  witA-in  ]>e  tayle, 
&  lat  hem  blede  in  a  vesselle,  &  late  hym  deye  in  ]>e  same  vesselle  in  J;e  same 
blode ;  jian  take  broun  Brede,  &  kyt  it,  &  stepe  it  in  j^e  Yenegre,  &  draw 
Jporw  a  straynoure ;  J^an  take  j^e  same  blode,  &  ponder  of  Canel,  &  cast 
J?er-to  tyl  it  be  brouw ;  J^an  caste  J^er-to  ponder  Pepii',  Salt,  &  Wyne  a  lytelle, 
fat  it  be  nojt  to  strong  of  venegre.  An  skald  ]7e  Lampray,  &  pare  hem  clene, 
&  conche  hym  ronnd  on  J^e  cofyn,  tyl  he  be  helyd;'  j^an  kyuere  hym  fayre 
^y^th  a  lede,  sane  a  lytel  hole  in  ]?e  myddelle,  &  at^  ]7at  hool,  blow  in  ]>e 
cofynne  with  ym  mowj^e  a  gode  blast  of  Wynde.  And  sodenly  stoppe  j^e 
hole,  ]7at  )>e  wynd  a-byde  w/t/«-ynne,  to  reyse  vppe  J^e  cofynne,  J^at  he  falle 
nowt  a-dowune  ;  &  whan  he  is  a  lytel  y-hardid  in  ]7e  ouen,  pryke  ])e  cofyn 
with  a  pynne  y-stekyd  on  a  roddys  ende,  for  brekyng  of  J'e  cofynne,  &  J'an 
lat  bake,  &  serue  forth  colde.  And  when  ]>e  lamprey  is  take  owt  of  ]>e 
cofynne  &  etyn,  take  ]>e  Syrippe  in  jie  cofynne,  &  put  on  a  chargere,  &  caste 
Wyne  j^er-to,  an  ponder  Gyngere,  &  lat  boyle  in  ])e  fyre.  Than  take  fayre 
Paynemayn  y-wette  in  Wyne,  &  ley  J^e  soppis  in  J'e  cofynne  of  J'e  lamprey, 
&  ley  Je  Syrippe  a-boue,  &  ete  it  so  hot ;  for  it  is  gode  lordys  mete. 

.xxiiij.  Tarti?s  de  chare. — Take  Freyssche  Porke,  &  hew  it ;  &  grynd  it  in 
a  mortere,  &  take  it  vppe  in-to  a  fayre  vesselle ;  &  take  Je  whyte  of  Eyrouw  & 
J'e  jolke,  y-tryid  J'orw  a  straynoure ;  &  temper  Jiin  porke  ])eT-with ;  &  J^an 
take  Pynej,  &  Raysonys  of  Coraunce,  &  frye  hem  in  Freyssche  grece,  & 
caste  ]>er-to  ^pouder  Pepir  &  Gyngere,  Canel,  Sugre,  Safroun,  Salt,  &  caste 
Jii?r-to;  &  do  it  on  a  cofynne,  &  plante  J^e  cofynne  a-boue  with  Prunej,  & 
with  Datys,  &  gret  Eoysonys  of  Coraunce,  &  smal  Byrdys,  or  ellys  harde 
^olkys  of  Eyroun;  &  yf  J^ow  tage*  Byrdys,  fiye  hem  in  grece  or  Jiou  putte 
hem  in  J^e  cofyn) ;  &  Jian  keuere  Jiin  cofynne ;  &  J'an  endore  it  with  jolkys  of 
Eyroun,  &  with  Safroune,  &  late  yt  bake  tyll  it  be  y-now;  &  J^an  serue 
forth. 

.XXV.  Rastons. — Take  fayre  Flowre,  &  J^e  whyte  of  Eyroun,  &  ]>e  jolke,  a 
lytel;  Jjan  take  "Warme  Berme,  &  putte  al  J^es  to-gederys,  &  bete  hem  to- 
gederys  with  J'in  bond  tyl  it  be  schort  &  J7ikke  y-now,  &  caste  Sugre  y-now 
J'^r-to,  &  J^enne  lat  reste  a  whyle ;  fan  kaste  in  a  fayre  place  in  j^e  oven,  & 
late  bake  y-now ;  &  Jjen  with  a  knyf  cutte  yt  round  a-boue  in  maner  of  a 
crowne,  &  kepe  J^e  cruste  J^at  J^ou  kyttyst ;  &  J^an  pyke  al  J'e  cromys  with- 
ynne  to-gederys,  an  pike  hem  smal  with  j^in  knyf,  &  sane  J^e  sydys  &  al  J^e 

1  covered.  ^  jj^rl.  ellys.   A.   eH,  altered  to  at.  ^  If.  41,  bk.  *  take. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN   MS.    279.    VYAUNDE    FUUNEZ.  53 

cruste  hole  w/t^-owte ;  &  j^an  caste  J^er-in  clarifiyd  Boter,  &  Mille  ^  ]7e  cromej 
&  ]7e  -  botere  to-gedcrej,  &  keuere  it  a-jen  with  ]>e  cruste,  ]/at  ]>o\i  kyttest 
a- way ;  J7an  putte  it  in  j^e  ovyn  ajen  a  lytil  tyme ;  &  ]^aii  take  it  out,  &  serue 
it  fortH. 

.xxvj.  Darioles. — Take  "Wyne,  an  Freyssclie  broj^e,  &  Clowes,  &  Maces,  & 
Marwe,  pouder  Gyngere,  Safroun,  &  lat  al  boyle  to-gederys,  &  Creme,  (jif  it 
be  clowty,  draw  it  j^orw  a  straynoure,)  &  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  &  melle  hem 
to-gederys,  &  pore  ]>e  lycoure  J>at  J^e  marwe  was  sothe  in,  ]>er-to  ;  J^en 
make  fayre  cofyns,  &  put  ]>e  Marwe  ]>er-m,  &  mence  Datis,  &  Strawberys 
in  tyme  of  jere,  &  sette  ]>e  cofyns^  in  J^e  ovenne,  &  lat  hem  hard  a  lytelle, 
&  take  hem  out,  &  put  ]>e  lycoure  ])er-to,  &  lat  bake ;  &  serue  forth. 

.xxvij.  Pyej  de  parej. — Take  &  smyte  fayre  buttys  of  Porke,  &  buttys 
of  Vele,  to-gederys,  &  put  it  on  a  fayre  potte,  &  do  }^er-to  Freyssche  ^broj'e, 
&  a  quantyte  of  wyne,  &  lat  boyle  alle  to-gederys  tyl  yt  be  y-now ;  ]?an  take 
it  fro  j^e  fyre,  &  lat  kele  a  lytelle  ;  J^an  caste  ]>er-to  jolkys  of  Eyroun,  & 
pouder  of.  Gyngere,  Sugre,  &  Salt,  &  mynced  Datys,  &  Roysonys  of 
Coraunce  ;  J^en  make  fayre  past,  and  cofynnys,  &  do  ]7er-on ;  kyuer  it,  & 
let  bake,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

•xxviij.  Potrous. — Take  a  schouyl  of  yron),  &  hete  it  brennyng  hote ;  & 
)?an  take  it  owt  of  j^e  fyre,  &  fille  it  fuUe  of  Salt ;  J^an  make  a  pitte  in  ]>e 
Salt  al  holow,  J^e  schap  of  a  treen  dyssche ;  &  sette  }e  panne  &  ]ie  Salt 
ouer  ]>e  fyre  a-jen,  tyl  ]>e  Salt  be  brennyng  hote ;  &  ]7an  caste  J^in  whyte 
&  ])e  jolkys  of  Eyroun  in-to  ]>e  hole  of  J7e  Salte,  &  lat  sej^e  ouer  fe  fyre  tyl 
it  be  half  harde ;  &  J^an  put  a  dyssche  half  fuUe  of  Salt ;  &  J^an  take  a 
dressoure  knyf,  &  put  vndernej^e  J^e  Salt  in  J^e  panne,  &  hef^  it  vppe  so  fayre, 
fat  ]>e  cofyn  with  ]>e  Eyroun  breke  nojt;  J^an  sette  it  on  \)e  dyssche  wyth 
])e  Salt,  &  Jjan  serue  it  forth. 

.xxix.  Flampoyntes  bake. — Take  fayre  Buttes  of  Porke,  &  sej^e  hem  in 
fayre  "Watere,  &  clene  pyke  a- way  j^e  bonys  &  ]>e  Synewes,  &  hew  hem  & 
grynd  hem  in  a  mortere,  &  temper  with  ])e  Whyte  of  Eyrown,  &  Sugre,  & 
pouder  of  Pepir,  &  Gyngere,  &  Salt;  ]>an  take  neyssche  Cruddis,  grynd  hem, 
&  draw  ]>OTW  a  straynoure ;  &  caste  ]^er-to  Aneys,  Salt,  pouder  Gyngere, 
Sugre;  &  j^an  take  ]7e  StufFe  of  ]>e  Porke,  &  putte  it  on  euelong  cofyn  of 
fayre  past ;  &  take  a  fej^er,  &  endore  J^e  Stuffe  in  ]>e  cofyn  with  ]>e  cruddys ; 
tS:  whan  it  is  bake,  take  Pynej,  &  clowys,  &  plante  j^e  cofyn  a-boue,  a  rew 
of  on,  &  rew  of  a-no]7er ;  &  j^an  serue  f[orth]. 
*  melle  A.  (mk).     ^  MS.  >e  ye.      ^  Cofyns  A.,  fyre  Harl.      *  leaf  42.      *  Heave;  lift. 


54         COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN   MS.    279.    VYAUNDE    FURNEZ. 

.XXX.  Sewtrappe. — Take  .ij.  lytel  erj^en  pannys,  &  sette  on  J^e  colys^  tyl 
fej  ben  hote  ;  make  a  dyssclie-fulle  of  j^ikke  bature  of  Floure  &  AYatere  ;  take 
&  grace  a  lytel  J7at  oj^er  panne,  &  do  ]ie  bater  J^er-on ;  &  lat  renne  al  a-bowte 
Jje  panne,  so  Jiat  ]>e  pan  be  al  ^y-helyd;  take  &  sette  j^e  panne  a-jen  ouer  J;e 
fyre  of  colys ;  do  ]>at  oJ>er  panne  a-boue  Jiat  o]7er  panne,  tyl  it  be  y-baken 
y-now ;  whan  it  is  y-bake,  J^at  it  wol  a-ryse  fro  ]>e  eggys  of  j^e  panne,  take 
kydes  Fleyssche  &  png  porke,  &  hew  it ;  take  Percely,  ysope,  &  Sauerey 
[and  hew  hit]^  smal  y-now ;  &  Jirow  a-mong  J^e  Fleyssche  ;■*  &  do  it  in  a  panne, 
&  ]7e  cofynne,  do  it  to  ]>e  colys ;  hele  it  w^t/^  j'at  o}er  panne,  &  do  colys 
a-bouyn,  &  lat  baken  wyl ;  whan  it  is  y-now,  take  Eyroun,  &  broke  hem ; 
take  ])e  pYkes,  &  draw  J^orw  a  straynoure :  caste  to  ]>e  jolkys  Hwyte  Sugre, 
Gyngere,  Canelle,  Galyngale ;  sture  it  wyl  to-gederys ;  take  al  J^is,  &  sette 
a-do2m  J^e  panne,  &  cast  in  a-bouyn  J^e  cofynne  in  ]?e  panne  :  sture  it 
to-gederys ;  hele  it  ajenward  w«tA  J'at  o|'er  panne,  &  lay  colys  a-boue,  &  lat 
bake  wyl  tyl  it  be  y-now ;  take  yt  owt  of  ]>e  panne,  «S:  do  it  out  y-hole,  or 
as  moche  as  Jjow  wolt,  &  )7anne  serue  it  forth. 

.xxxj.  Herbelade. — Take  Buttes  of  Porke,  &  smyte  hem  in  pecys,  &  sette 
it  ouer  J^e  fyre ;  &  sej^e  hem  in  fa5rre  Waters  ;  &  whan  it  is  y-soj^e  y-now,  ley 
it  on  a  fayre  bord,  &  pyke  owt  alle  J7e  bonys,  &  hew  it  smal,  &  put  it  in  a 
fayre  bolle  ;  j^an  take  ysope,  Sawge,  Percely  a  gode  quantite,  Sc  hew  it  smal, 
&  putte  it  on  a  fayre  vesselle ;  Jian  take  a  lytel  of  ]>e  broj^e,  ]?at  ]>e  porke  was 
sojiia  in,  &  draw  ]?orw  a  straynoure,  &  caste  to  ]>g  Erbys,  &  jif  it  a  boyle  ;  ]ierme 
take  owt  ])e  Erbys  with  a  Skymoure  fro  J^e  bro|ie,  &  caste  hem  to  ]>e  Porke  in 
J^e  bolle  ;  J^an  mynce  Datys  smal,  &  caste  hem  ]^er-to,  &  Roysonys  of  Coraunce, 
&  Pynej,  &  drawe  ]7orw  a  straynoure  jolkys  of  Eyroun  ]>er-to,  &  Sugre,  & 
ponder  Gyngere,  &  Salt,  &  coloure  it  a  lytel  •with  Safroune  ;  &  toyle  yt  'with 
]>iii  bond  al  J^es  to-gederys  ;  J^an  make  fayre  round  cofyns,  &  harde  hem 
a  lytel  in  ])e  ovyn ;  )>an  take  hem  owt,  &  wyth  a  ^  dyssche  in  ]>m  bond,  fylle 
hem  fulle  of  ]ie  Stuffe  ;  ]?an  sette  hem  J^er-in  a-jen ;  &  lat  hem  bake  y-now, 
&  serue  forth. 

.xxxij.  A  bake  Mete. — Take  an  make  fayre  lytel  cofyns;  ]7an  take  Perys, 
&  ^if  J^ey  ben  lytelle,  put  .iij.  in  a  cofynne,  &  pare  clone,  &  be-twyn  eueiy 
pere,  ley  a  gobet  of  Marow  ;  &  yf  )70u  haue  no  lytel  Perys,  take  grete,  &  gobet 
ham,  &  so  put  hem  in  j;e  ovyn  a  whyle  ;  fan  take  Jin  commade  lyke  as  ]>ou 

1  A.  on  ye  cohjs,  Harl.  vp  colde.  ^  leaf  42  back.  ^  Added  from  A. 

*  A.  adds  "  [take  salt  aud  do  ]^(??--to,  take  the  fleysslie]  and  do  hit  on  J^e  panne." 
5  leaf  43. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARLEIAN    MS.    279.    VYAUNDE    FURNEZ.         55 

takyst  to  Dowcetys,  &  pore  j>er-on ;  but  lat  j^e  Marow  &  ]>e  Pecyj  ^  ben  sene ; 
&  whan  it  is  y-now,  serue  f[orth]. 

.xxxiij.  A  bake  Mete  Ryalle. — Take  &  make  litel  cofyns,  &  take 
Chykonys  y-so]7e  ;  ojier  Porke  y-so]7e,  &  smale  y-hackyd ;  o]>er  of  hem  boj^e  : 
take  Clowys,  Maces,  Quybibes,  &  hakke  w?tA-alle,  &  melle  yt  'with  cromyd 
Marow,  &  lay  on  Sugre  y-now ;  ]^an  ley  it  on  J'e  cofynne,  &  in  j^e  myddel 
lay  a  gobet  of  marow,  &  Sugre  round  a-bowte  y-now,  &  lat  bake ;  &  J^is 
is  for  sopeiys. 

.xxxiiij.  Crustade  Ryal. — Take  &  pyke  owt  \>e  marow  of  bonys  as  hool 
as  J»ou  may ;  fen  take  ]>e  bonys,  an  se'pe  hem  in  Watere,  or^  that  J^e  broj^e  be 
fat  y-now  ;  Jien  take  Almaundys,  &  wayssche  hem  clene,  &  bray  hem,  & 
temper  hem  vppe  -with  J'e  fat  broj^e;  j^an  wyl  J^e  mylke  be  broun;  J>en  take 
pouder  Canelle,  Gyngere,  &  Sugre,  &  caste  J>er-on ;  J'an  take  &  make  fayre 
cofyns,  &  lat  hem  hard  in  ]>e  ovyn  ;  l^an  take  Roysonys  of  coraunce,  &  ley  in 
j^e  cofynne,  &  taylid  Datys  y-kyt  a-long ;  ]>eii  take  Eyroun  a  fewe,  y-straynid, 
&  swenge  a-mong  j>e  Milke  ]?e  jolke ;  ]>en  take  the  botmon  of  ]>e  cofynne  j^er 
j>e  Marow  schal  stonde,  &  steke  ]>er  gret  an  long  gobettys  jier-on  vppe- 
ryjt,  &  lat  bake  a  whyle ;  J^en  pore  J^in  comade  )7er-on  halful,  &  lat  bake  >' 
&  whan  yt  A-rysith,  it  is  y-now ;  j^en  serue  forth. 

.XXXV.  Crustade. — Take  a  cofyn,  &  bake  hym  drye ;  J^en  take  Marw- 
^bonys  &  do  J^er-in;  J^enne  nym  hard  plkys  of  Eyroun,  &  grynde  hem  smal, 
&  lye  hem  vppe  with  Milke  ;  J'an  nym  raw  jolkys  of  Eyro^m,  &  melle  hem 
a-mong  chikonys  y-smete,  &  do  Jier-inne  ;  &  yf  j^ou  luste,  Smal  birdys;  & 
a-force  wyl  Jiin  comade  -with  Sugre  or  hony ;  J^an  take  clowys,  Macej,  Pepir, 
&  Safron),  &  put  fier-to,  &  salt  yt ;  &  ]>an  bake,  &  serue  forth. 

.xxxvj.  Crustade  gentyle. — Take  a  Cofyn  y-bake;  j^an  grynd  Porke  or 
Vele  smal  -with  harde  jolkys  ^  of  Eyroun ;  ]>an  lye  it  with  Almaunde  Milke, 
&  make  hem  stondyng ;  take  Marow  of  bonys,  &  ley  on  J^e  cofynne,  &  fylle 
hem  fulle  with  J^in  comade,  &  serue  f[orth]. 

.xxxvij.  Doucettes. — Take  Porke,  &  hakke  it  smal,  &  Eyroun  y-mellyd 
to-gederys,  &  a  lytel  Milke,  &  melle  hem  to-gederys  with  Hony  &  Pepir,  & 
bake  hem  in  a  cofyn,  &  serue  forth. 

.xxxviij.  Doucettes  a-forcyd. — Take  Almaunde  Milke,  &  jolkys  of  Eyroun 
y-melled  to-gederys,  Safroun,  Salt,  &  hony ;  dry  jjin  cofyn,  &  ley  fin  Mari- 
bonys  fer-on,  &  caste  fin  comade  j^er-on,  &  serue  f[orth.]. 

.xxxix.  Daryoles. — Take  Milke  an  Eyroun,  &  ]>e  fatte  of  }e  Freyssche 

1  A.  perys.  '^  A.  til  that.  ^  jg^f  43  back.  *  A.  adds  and  rawe  polices. 


56         COOKERY   BOOK.    1.   HARLEIAX   MS.    279.    VYAUNDE    FURNEZ, 

broj^e,  Pepir,  &  Safroun,  &  Hony ;  dry  J^in  cofyn,  &  caste  J^in  comade  ^er-on, 
&  seme  forth. 

.xl.  Daryoles. — Take  croddys  of  j^e  deye,  &  Tvryng  owt  ]>e  whey  ;  &  take 
^olkys  of  Eyroun  nowt  to  fewe,  ne  nojt  to  many,  and  strayne  hem  bo]7e  to- 
gederys  jiorw  a  straynot<r,  &  j'an  hard  )iin  cofynne,  &  ley  ym  marew  j^er-in ; 
&  pore  J'in  comade  J^^r-on,  an  bake  hem,  &  serue  hem  forth. 

.xlj.  Flathouns  m  lente. — Take  &  draw  a  j^rifty  Milke  of  Almawdes; 
temper  with  Sugre  Water ;  Jjan  take  hardid  cofyns,  &  pore  ])in  comad  ]7er-on ; 
blaunche  Almaundis  hoi,  &  caste  ther-on  Ponder  Gyngere,  Canelle,  Sugre, 
Salt,  &  Safrown ;  bake  hem,  &  serue  f  [orth]. 

Amen. 


COOKERY   BOOK.    I.    HARL.    279.    HENRY   IV.'s    CORONATION    FEAST.       57 


['  CONUIUIA 

Quaedam  Antiqua,  viz. 

Conuiuium 

1.  Regis  H.  4.  in  coronatione  sua  A"  D"^*-  1399.  apud  Wee.tmonasterium. 

2.  Conuiuium  Eegis  supradicti  in  nuptiis  A"  D°*-  apud  Wynton/«/rt. 

3.  Conuiuium  Domini  de  La  Grey,  incerti  temporis. 

4.  Conuiuium  Ricardi  Flemming  Episcopi  Lincolniensis,  incerti  temporis  : 

ille  tamen  ibidem  Episcopus  institutus  a  Papa  A"  D°   1420,  circa 
annum  nonuwj  Regis  H.  5. 

5.  Conuiuium  ad  funeralia  Nicholai  Bubbewith,  Episcopi  Bathonensi's  et 

Wellensw,  die  4°  Dec.  A"  D"  1424,  a"  3°  H.  6. 

6.  Conuiuium  Johannis  Stafford,  qui  successit  Nicholao  Bubbewith  proefato, 

in  inductu  suo  ad  Episcopatum  Bathonensis  et  "Wellensjs,  die  16  Sept. 
A"  D° 1425. 

7.  Conuiuium  in  nuptijs  Comitia  Devonise,  incerti  temporis.] 


[Earl.  279,  kafiS.] 

Comiiuimn  dommi  Henrifi    Regis  quarti,   In  coronacione  sua  apud 

Weatmonasterium.  ^ 

Le  pn'mer  cours.  Heroun. 

Braun  en  peu^rarde.  Crustade  Lumbarde. 

Viaund  Ryal.  Storieoun,  graunt  luces. 

Teste  de  senglere  enarmej.  -^  Sotelte. 
Graund  chare.  I^e  .ij.  COurs. 

Syngnettys. 

^  :,    ■,      ,  Venyson  en  furmenty. 

Capoun  de  haut  grace.  ^  i^ 

Eesaunte. 


Gely. 


1  Leaf  57.     This  Contents  (between  square  brackets)  is  in  a  much  later  hand,  probably 
18th  century. 
-  Did  Chaucer  get  any  of  it,  in  return  for  his  humorous  Furse  appeal  ? 
3  A.  en 


58       COOKERY   BOOK.    I.    HARL.    279.    HENRY    IV.'s   CORONATION    FEAST. 


Porcelle  farce  enforce. 

Pokokkys. 

Cranys. 

Venyson  Eoste. 

Conyng. 

Byttore. 

Pulle  endore. 

Graunt  tartez. 

Braun  fryez. 

Leche  lumbarde. 

A  Sotelte. 

Le  .iij.  cours. 
Blaundesorye. 
Quyncys  in  comfyte. 
Egretez. 

Curlewys. 


Pertryche. 

Pyionys. 

Quaylys. 

Snytys. 

Smal  byrdys. 

Babettys. 

Pome  dorreng. 

Braun  blanke  leche. 

Eyroun  engele.^ 

Frytourys. 

Doucettys. 

Pety  perneux. 

Egle. 

Pottys  of  lylye. 

A  Sotelte. 


Conuiuiuw  Regis  sup/-adicti  in  nnpcijs  apud  Wyntonw?/!. 


le  .j.  cours. 

Fylettys  in  galentyne. 

Yyaund  Ryalle. 

Grosse  chare. 

Signettys. 

Capoun  of  liaut  grece. 

Fesauntys.    [leafio,  back.] 

Chewetys. 

A  Sotelte. 

Le  .ij.  cours. 

Yenyson  -with  furmente.  Potage. 

Gelye. 

Porcellys. 

Conynge. 

Bittore. 

Pulcynges  farcej. 

Pertryche. 

Leche  fryez. 

Braun  bruse. 

A  Sotelte. 


Le  .iij.  cours 

Creme  de  Almaundys. 

Perys  in  Syryppe. 

Venyson  Bostyd. 

Kyde. 

Wodecokke. 

Plouere. 

Rabettys. 

Quaylys. 

Snytys. 

Feldefare. 

Smale  byrdys. 

Crustade. 

Sturgeown. 

Fretoure. 

A  Sotelte. 

Ibidem  cowuiuium  de  pissibus. 
Le  .j.  cours. 
Vyaund  Ryal. 
Sew  lumbarde. 
iced  eggs. 


COOKERY    BOOK.    I.    HARL.    279.    HENRY   IV. 's    WEDDING    FEAST.        59 


Salt  Fysshe. 

Laumpreys  pouderyd. 

Pyke. 

Breme. 

Samoun  Rostyd. 

Crustade  Lumbarde. 

A  sotelte. 

Le  .ij.  cours. 

Purpayis  en  furmente. 

Gely. " 

Breme. 

Samoun. 

Congre. 

Gurnarde. 

Plays. 

Lampreys  in  past. 

Leche  fryez. 

Panteryse. 

Coronys  for  a  sotelte. 

Le  .iij.  cours. 
Creme  of  Almaunde. 
Perys  in  syrippe. 
Tenche  enbrace. 
Troutez. 

Floundrys  fryid.     [/ea/46.] 
Perchys. 

Lamprey  Rostyd. 
Elys  Eostyd. 
Lochys  &  colys. 


Sturioun, 

Crabbe  au  Creueys. 

Graspeys. 

Egle  coronys  in  sotelte. 


In  Festo  Sancte  Trinitatis  in  cena. 

Le  .j.  cours. 
Brewys. 

Chykonys  y-boylid. 
Pygge  en  Sage. 
Spaulde  de  Motoun. 
Capoun  Rostyd. 
Pastelade. 

Le  .ij.  cours. 

Venysoun  en  bro]je. 

Kyde  Rostyd. 

Heronsewys. 

Peioun. 

Venysoun  Rostyd. 

Rabettys. 

Pety  perneux. 

Le  iij.  cours. 

Gely. 

Quaylys. 

Samaca. 

Pescodde. 

Blaunderellys. 

Strawberys. 


Le  .j.  cours 

Rys  Moleynj. 
Vyaunde  bruyse. 
Bakunde  Heryng. 
Gros  Salt  fysshe. 
Salt  Samoun. 
Salt  Elys. 


Conuiuium  domini  de  la  Grey. 

Eryid  Marlyng. 
Grete  Pyke. 
Bakyn  Elys. 

Le  .ij.  cours. 
Compost  ) 

Brode  canelle.  ) 
Codlyng. 


Potase. 


60       1.    HARL.    279.    FEASTS    OF    LORD   DE    GREY    AND    BP.    OF    LINCOLN. 


Ruchet. 
Eochys. 
Cheueyne. 
Flampoyne. 
Halybutte. 
Plays  fry  id. 
Trayne  Roste. 
Vn  Lechemete. 

Le  .iij.  cours. 

Gelye.      [Ieafi6,  back.] 
Creme  of  Almaundys. 


Trowtys. 

Storione. 

Purpays. 

"Wylkys. 

Elys  &  Lamprouns  Rostyd. 

Tenche. 

Perche. 

Breme  de  Mere. 

Pyuenade  in  paste. 

Leche  lumbarde. 

Chesmeyne. 


ConuiuiuM  Flemmynge, 
Le  .j.  cours. 

Perrey  fyn.  \ 
Rapeye.         j  ^    ''^  ' 
Grete  taylys  of  Milwelle, 
An  lenge.' 
Samoun  pollys. 
Salt  Elys  -with  galentyne. 
Gode  Pyke  an  fat. 
Grosse  tartej. 

Le  .ij.  cours. 
Lampreys  in  galentyne. 
Vyand  Ryal. 
Haddok. 
Gurnard. 
Plays. 
Halybutte. 


Lincohiiensis  "Ei^iscopi. 
Elys  an  Lampronys  Rostyd. 
Flampayn. 

Le  .iij.  cours. 
Mammenye. 
Creme  de  .ij.  colourys. 
Troutys. 
Storioun. 
Samon  freysslie. 
Perche. 
"Walkys. 
Breme  de  Mere. 
Crabbe. 

Purpeys  Rostyd. 
Goions  fryid. 
Doucetys. 


Conuiuiu?w  Johannis  Chaundelere,  ^T^iscopi  Saruw,  in  introitu  episcopatus 

sui :  in  carnibus. 

Pomys  en  gele.     [leafil.] 

Yn  lechemete. 

Tart  Ryal. 

Yn  sotelte.     Agnws  dei. 


Le  .j.  cours. 

Furmenty  en  Yenyson. 

Yyaund  cyprys. 

Capoun  boilys. 

Swan. 

Fesaunt. 

Pecokke. 


Le  .ij.  cours. 

Yyaund  Ryal.  jp^^^g^^ 
Blandyssorye.  ) 


i.e.  "  Great  tails  of  Milwell  and  Ling  :  "  see  next  page,  col.  2,  near  foot. 


I.    HARL,    279.    FEASTS    OF    BPS.    OF    SALISBURY,    &    BATH    &    WELLS.    61 


Porcellys 

Kyde. 

Crane. 

Yenysoun  Rostyd. 

Heronsewes. 

Pulsous  farce. 

Pertryge. 

Vn  leche. 

Crustade  Ryal. 

Vn  sotelte  :  a  Lebarde. 

Le  .iij.  cours. 
]\raminenye  Ryal. 

Yyand. 


Bittore. 

Curlewe. 

Pyioun. 

Eabettys. 

Doderellys. 

Quaylys. 

Larky  s. 

Vyaunt  Ardant. 

Yn  lechemete. 

Frytourys  Lunibard. 

Payn  Puffe. 

Gele. 

Yn  Sotelte :  Aquila. 


Cowuiuium  domini  "Sicholai  Bubbewyth,  nup^;;-  ei^iscopi  Boihonensis  & 
"WeWensis  ad  funeral/« ;  videlic^'^,  quarto  die  decembrits,  anno  domini 
Millesimo.  CCCC™  vecessimo  quarto  :  in  carnibus : — 


Le  .j.  cours. 

Nomblys  de  E,oo. 

Blamangere. 

Braun,  cum  Mustard. 

Chynes  de  porke. 

Capoun  Eoste  de  haut  grece. 

Swan  Eoste. 

Heroun  Eostyd. 

Aloes  de  Eoo. 

Puddyng  de  Swan  necks. 

Yn  Lechemete. 

Yn  bake,  \idelicet  Crustade. 

Le  .ij.  cours. 

Eg  Styuyd. 

Mammenye. 

Connyng  Eostyd. 

Curlew. 

Fesaunt  Eostyd. 

Wodecokke  Eoste.     [leaf^l,  bach.] 

Pertrycbe  Eoste. 

Plouer  Eoste. 


Snytys  Eoste. 
Grete  byrdes  Eosted. 
Larkys  Eostyd 
Yennysoun  de  Eo  Eostyd. 
Yrcbouns. 
Yn  leche. 
Payn  puffe. 
Colde  bakemete. 


Conuiuiuwi  de   piscibi<s   pro    viris 
Religios/s  ad  funerals  predicts. 

Le  .j.  cours. 

Elys  in  sorry. 
Blamanger. 
Bakoun  heryng. 
Mulwyl  taylys. 
Lenge  taylys. 
Jolly s  of  Samoun. 
Merlyng  so]7e. 
Pyke. 
Grete  Plays. 


62 


HARL    279.    FEASTS   OF    THE    BP.    OF    BATH    AND   WELLS. 


Leche  barry. 
Crustade  Ryal, 

Le  .ij.  cours. 

Mammenye. 

Crem  of  Almanndys. 

Codelyng. 

Haddok. 

Freysse  hake. 

Solys  y-so|7e. 


Gumyd  broylid  w/t/i  a  syryppe. 

Brem  de  Mere. 

Roche. 

Perche. 

Menus  fryid. 

Trchouns. 

Elys  y-rostyd. 

Leche  lumbard. 

Grete  Crabbys. 

A  cold  bakemete. 


Coiiuiuiu?«  Johannis  Staflforde,  'E'piscopi  Wellensis  in  iwductu  Ep2sco/;atus 
sui,  videlicet  .xyj.^  die  Septembris,  Anno  domini  millessimo  CCCC™° 
vicessimo  quinto  [1425]. 


Le  .j.  cours. 
Furmenty  with  venysoun. 
Mammenye. 
Brawnne. 
Kede  Roste. 
Capoun  de  haut  Greee. 
Swan. 
Heyroun. 
Crane. 

A  leche.     [leaf  48.] 
Crustade  Ryal. 
Frutoure  Samata. 
A  soltelte,  a  docter  of  lawe. 

Le  .ij.  cours. 

Blaunche  Mortrewys. 

Vyand  Ryal. 

Pecoke. 

Conyng. 

Fesaunte. 

Tele. 

Chykonys  doryd. 

Pylons. 

Veysoun  Rostyd. 

GuUys. 

Curlew. 


Cokyntryche. 
A  leche. 

Pystelade  chaud. 
Pystelade  fryid. 
Frytoure  damaske. 
A  sotelte,  Egle. 

Le  .iij.  cours. 
Gely. 

Creme  Moundy. 
Pety  Curlewe. 
Egret. 
Pertryche. 
Venysoun  Roste. 
Plovere. 
Oxyn  kyn. 
Quaylys. 
Snytys. 

Herte  de  Alouse. 
Smale  byrdys. 
Dowcet  Ryal. 
Petelade  Fryid. 
Hyrchouns. 
Eggys  Ryal. 
Pomys. 
Brawn  fryid. 


I.  HARL.  279.  FEASTS  OF  BP.  OF  BATH  &  "WELLS,  &  LD.  DEVONSHIRE.    63 


A  sotelte,  Sent  Andrewe.  Leche. 

j'rute.  -^  bakemete. 
Waffrys.  Iq  ij.  cours. 

^>^^^^^^-  Mortrewys. 

Pro  inferiori  parte  Aule,  &  in  alijs     ,  J^^^* 

locis.  ^Conynge. 
reionys. 

Le  .j.  cours.  Ckykons. 

Furmenty  vfith  venysoun.  Venysoun  Kosted. 

Mammenye.  Leche. 

Brawn.  Frutoure. 

Kede  Roste.  Bakemete  chaud. 

Capoun.  Bakemete  fryid. 


A  Ryal  Fest  in  >e  Feste 

Le  .j.  cours. 

Furmenty  -with  Venysoun. 

Yyand  Goderygge. 

Yele  Roste. 

Swan  witA  chawderoun.^ 

Pecokke. 

Crane. 

Vn  leche. 

Yn  Fryid  mete. 

Yn  pasty,  cooperta. 

A  sotelte:  Ceruus. 

Le  .ij.  cours. 

Mammenye. 

Yyand  Motlegfi. 

Kede. 

Conyng. 

Herons. 

Chykonys  endoryd. 

Yenyson  Rosted. 

I.  leche. 

Yn  Fryid  mete. 

I.  paste  Crustade. 

1  leaf  48  back.  ^  a 


at  ])e  weddyng  of  J?e  Erie  of  Deuynchire. 

A  colde  Bakemete. 
A  sotelte:    Homo. 

Le  .iij.  cours. 
Gely. 

Datys  in  comfyte. 
Fesaunt. 
Gullys. 
Poper. 

Mawlard  de  la  Ryuer. 
Peionys 
Pertryche. 
Curlew. 

Pomez  endoryd. 
I.  Leche. 
Payn  PufFe. 
A  sotelte  :    Arbor. 

Pro  inferiori  parte  Auli. 
Le  .j.  cours. 

Yenyson  en  Broj^e. 
Spawdys^  de  Motoun. 
Kyde. 
chaudewyne.  ^  Spaut  or  Spaud,  Shoulder. 


64        I.    HARL.    279.    THE    EARL    OF    DEVONSHIRE'S   WEDDING    FEAST. 

Doke.  Pyionys. 

Chykonys  Roste.  GuUys. 

Pygge  in  Sawge.  E.abettys. 

Yenysoim  bake.^  Venysoun  Roste.* 

Le.  ij.  cours.  Doucetys. 

Yn  Leche.' 
Caudel  Ferry. 

^  A.  venysoune  rostid. 

^  A.  adds  in  syrup . 

^  A.  adds  '  mete,'  and  also  adds  Vnfryide  mete  after. 


[lEnt(  of  P?arl.  iHS.  270.] 


65 


COOKERY  BOOK    II. 

HAELEIAN  MS.  4016,  ab.  1450  a.d. 


\_TJds  Contents  is  not  in  the  MS.,  but 

PAGE 

Hare  in  Wortes 69 

Buttered  Wortes 69 

Cabochis 69 

Growelle  fforce 70 

Nombles  of  Veneson 70 

Venysou  in  broth 70 

Furmenty  witli  venysoC 70 

Bourreys 70 

Mortreus  de  Chare 70 

Brawne  in  confite 71 

Brawue  in  confite 71 

Blaunche  brawne 71 

Browne  in  egurdouce 71 

Brawne  in  peuard 71 

Garbage 72 

Pigge  or  chiken  in  Sauge 72 

Stwed  Beeff 72 

Stwed  Muttoii 72 

Capons  Stwed 72 

Flathonys 73 

Venysou  ybake 73 

Fruto«rs 73 

Longe  Fnito?<>-s 73 

Pety  pe/n antes 74 

Auter  peti  p? >  nantes 74 

Custarde 74 

Custard  himbarde 74 

Tartus  of  fflesh 74 

Lese  fryes 75 

Auter  Tartus 75 

Dariolles 75 

Pies  of  Parys 75 

Crete  pyes 76 

Herbe-blade 76 

Chawdwyii 76 

Pikkyll  T^oiiT  le  Mallard 77 

Sauce  gameljTie 77 

Sauce  sermstele   .     • 77 

Sauce  oylepeu«r 77 

Sauce  Yerte 77 

Sauce  Gynger 77 


is  made  up  from  the  titles  therein.^ 

PAC5E 

Sauce  Sorell 77 

Sauce  galentyne 77 

Swaii  rested 78 

Crane  rested 78 

Fesaunte  rested 78 

Partrich  rested 78 

Partrich  stwed 78 

Heron  rested 78 

Bytor  rosted 79 

Curlewe  rosted 79 

Egrete  rosted 79 

Brewe  rosted 79 

Quayle  rosted 79 

Pecok  rosted 79 

Sorcell  rosted 79 

Plouer 79 

Wodekok 80 

Snyte 80 

Conyng 80 

Conyng  in  Gravey 80 

Conyng  or  hen  in  clene  broth       ...  80 

Conyng,  heii,  or  Mallard 80 

Gelyuf  endobat 80 

Gelyne  in  brothe 81 

Eabette  rosted 81 

Kede  rosted 81 

Venyso«n  rosted 81 

Vele  rosted 81 

Chikfarsed 81 

Chike  eudored 81 

Goce  or  Capon  farced 81 

Pigge  fEarced 82 

Felettes  of  Porke  endored 82 

Felettes  in  galentyne 82 

Losinges  de  chare 82 

Tripe  de  Mutton 82 

Allowes  de  Mutton 83 

Browne  fryes 83 

Payn  purdeuz 83 

Perre 83 

Malasade 83 


66 


CONTENTS    OF    HARL.    4016.    COOKERY    BOOK    II. 


PAGE 

Blaunde  sorre 84 

Hagas  de  almoudes 84 

Hanouey 84 

Blamanger 85 

Bukuade 85 

Aiiter  maner  bukuade 85 

Brest  de  mottoil  in  sauce 85 

Eisshewes  de  Mary 85 

Lethe  lory 85 

Tausey 86 

Proyse 86 

Gely 86 

[Guissell] 87 

Peris  in  Syrippe 87 

Peris  in  compost 87 

Chare  de  Wardone 88 

Mawmene 88 

Longe  "Wortes  de  Peson« 89 

Elys  in  Sorre 89 

Ballok  broth 89 

Soppes  Dorre       90 

Soppes  ])0>ir  Chamberleyne      ....  90 

Muscules  in  broth 90 

Muscules  in  Shelle 90 

Mortrewes  of  Pesyii 90 

Blanche  porrey 90 

Caudell  ffery 91 

Prenade 91 

Froyte  de  almondes 91 

Fried  erenie  de  almondes 91 

Creme  boiled 92 

Letlardes 92 

Leche  lumbardc 92 

Autt'?-  leche  lumbard 93 

Cryspes 93 

Poterous 93 

Risshewes 93 

Potage  de  egges 94 

Taylo!(rs 94 

Malmens  bastard 94 

Gyngautrey 94 

Fygey 94 

Chaudewyue 95 

Rapes 95 

lusshell 95 

Gele  of  peson 95 

Caudell 96 

Oyle  soppes 96 

Caudell  de  Almondes 96 

Cheaut  de  Almondes 96 


PAGE 

Lente  fFrutoi/rs 96 

[Lesenges  Fries] 97 

[Risschewes  de  frute] 97 

[Trayne  roste] 97 

Quynces  or  Wardones  in  paast  ...  97 

Rastons 98 

Tart  de  ffruyte 98 

[Chewettes] 98 

Lamprey  I-bake 98 

Sauce  po»r  lamprey 99 

Lamprey  poudred 99 

Stokfissh  in  sauce 100 

Lamprons  in  Galentyne 100 

Lamprons  ybake 100 

Oystres  in  g;-«uey 100 

Oystres  in  cevey 100 

Pike  in  galentyne 101 

Pike  boyled 101 

Pike  in  brase 101 

Auti?;-  pike  in  Galentyne 101 

Salmon  fressh  boiled 102 

Samou  roste  in  Sauce 102 

Troute  boyled 102 

Crabbe  or  Lopster  boiled 102 

Perche  boiled 102 

Floundres  boiled 102 

Shrympes 103 

Breme  or  Roche  boiled 103 

Breme  rest  ensauce 103 

Plaise  boiled 103 

Ray  boiled 103 

Sole,  boiled,  rost,  or  fryed     ....  103 

Gurnard  rested  or  boyled 103 

Anoj^er 104 

Menese  or  loche  boiled 104 

Haddok  or  codlyng 104 

Barbell  boyled 104 

Millet  boyled 104 

Sturgeon  boiled 104 

Sturgeon  in  broth 104 

SturgeoS  po?<r  porpeys 105 

Firmenty  with  porpeys 105 

Tenche  in  brase 105 

Another  diting  of  a  tenche    ....  105 

Tm-but  boyled 105 

Turbut  roste  ensauce 106 

Tripe  de  Turbut 106 

Welkes  boyled 106 

Milkemete 106 

Chared  coneys,  or  chard wardoii .     .     .  106 


67 


COOKERY  BOOK  11. 

HARLEIAN  MS.  4016,  ab.  1450  a.d. 


^  [T]his  is  the  purviaunce  made  for  Kinge  Richard,  beings  with  J^e  Due 
of  lancastre  at  the  Bisshoppes  place  of  Durham  at  Londoiiig,  the  xxiii 
day  of  September,  the  yere  of  the  kinge  forsaid  .xij./  [a.b.  1387.] 


First  begvnuyng  for  a-chatry. 


Xiiij.  oxen  lying  in  salte. 

IJ.  oxen  ffreyssB. 

Vi^-'''hedes  of  shape  fressB. 

Yi^x.  carcas  of  shepe  fressli. 

Xij.  Bores. 

Xiiij.  Calvys. 

Cxi.  pigges. 

CCC.  maribones. 

Of  larde  and  grace,  ynogh. 

IIJ.  ton  of  salt  venason. 

IIJ.  does  of  ffressh  venason. 


The  pultry. 


L.  Swannes. 

CCx.  Gees. 

L.  capons  of  hie  grace. 

Yiii.  dusseii  oj^er  capons. 

Lx.  dd^  Hennes. 

CC.  copiiH  Conyngges. 

IIIJ.  Fesauntes. 

Y.  Herons  and  Bitores. 

Yi.  kiddes. 

1  fol.  1. 


Y.  dissoii  pullayii  for  Gely. 
Xij.  dd.^  to  roste. 
C.  dd.  peions. 
Xij.  dd.  partrych. 
Yiij.  dd.  Rabettes. 

X.  dosen  Curlewes. 
Xij.  dosen  Brewes. 
Xij.  Cranes. 
Wilde  fowle  ynogh. 
YJ^'  galons  melka, 
Xij.  galons  Creme. 

XI.  galons  of  Cruddes. 
II j.  hushel)  of  Appalles. 
Xj,  thousand  egges. 


%  The  first  course. 

Yenesoii  with  Furmenty. 
A  potage  called  viaundbruse. 
Hedes  of  Boras. 
Greta  Flessh. 
Swannes  rosted. 
Pigges  rosted. 
Crustade  lumbard  in  paste. 
And  a  Sotelte. 
2  six  score.  ^  dozens. 


68         COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    FEASTS    IN    1387    AND    1443. 


^  The  seconde  course. 
A  potage  called  Gele. 
A  potage  de  Blandesore. 
Pigges'  rested. 
Cranes'  rested. 
Fesauntes  rested. 
Herons  rested. 
Chekens  endored. 
Breme. 
1  Tartes. 
Broke  braune. 
Conyngges  rested. 
And  a  sotellte. 


^  The  thirde  course. 

Potage.  bruete  of  Almondes. 

Stwde  lumbarde. 

Yenyson  rested. 

Chekenes  rested. 

Pabettes  rosted. 

Partricli  rosted. 

Peions  rosted. 

Quailes  rosted. 

Larkes  rosted. 

Payne  puff/. 

A  DissB  of  Gely. 

Longe  Fruto?^rs. 

And  a  Sotelte. 


^  Atte  the  stalling  of  Jolin  Stafford,  Archibisshopp^?  of  CsLurderhurj,  the 
xxj  yere  of  king  Harry  the  vj.   [a.d.  1443.] 


Brawne  with  Mustard. 

Furmenty  with  Veneson. 

Mawmeny. 

Fesaunte. 

Swaii. 

Capon. 

Carpeis  of  Venesoii. 

Heron  sewe. 

Grete  breme. 

Leche  cremy  ryali. 

Custard  ryoH. 

A  sotelte.  Saint  Andrew,  sitting  on 
an  hie  Auter  of  a-state,  with  bemes 
of  goldc  ;  afore  him  knelyng,  ]>e 
Bisshoppe  in  pontificalibws ;  his 
Croser  kneling  behinde  him,  coped. 

^  The  second  course. 
Bruet  Men  amy. 
Yiaund  cypre. 

'  fol.  U. 


Crane  rosted. 

Veneson  rosted. 

Conyng. 

Betore. 

Partrich. 

Curlewe. 

Graunte  carpe. 

Leche  FrutoMr. 

Tard  riaH. 

A  sotelte :  ]>e  Trinite  sitting  in  a  son 
of  gold,  with  a  crueyfix  in  his 
honde.  Seint  Thomas  in  fat  one 
side,  Seint  Austin  in  that  ojjer, 
my  lorde  kneling  in  pontificalib^^s 
afor  him.  behinde  him,  his  croser 
coped  with  the  armes  of  Eouches- 
tre.  behinde  him,  in  j>at  o  side,  a 
blakMonke,  prior ^  of  Cristas  chirch; 
in  ]>at  other  side,  the  Abbot  of 
Seint  Austyns. 
■  fol.  2. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    FEAST    IN    1443.    RECIPES.         69 


^  The  thirde  course. 

Crerae  Vine. 
Gely  departed. 
Browes. 

Chekenos  boiled. 
Melons  ppuH. 
Plouer  rested. 
Eabettes. 
Yotrellej. 
Rales. 
Quayles. 
Dew  doues. 


Blanke  singuler  leche. 

Frutoure  Easyfi. 

Quynes  bakyn. 

A  sotelte.  A  godhede  in  a  son  of 
gold  glorified  aboue ;  in  the  son 
the  holy  giste  volnptable.  Seint 
Thonirts  kneHng  a- for  him,  with  ]>e 
poynt  of  a  swerd  in  his  hede/  &  ^ 
Mitre  there-vppoii,  crownyng  S.T. 
in  dextera  parte,  maria  tenens 
mitram  ;  in  sinistra  parte,  Johannes 
'B'd^tista;  et  in  iiij.  partibws,  iiij. 
Angeli  incensantes. 


Here  Beg^nnethe  A  Boke  of  Kokery, 

.  rriake  Colys,  and  stripe  hem  faire  fro  the  stalkes.   Take 

J-  Betus  and  Borage,  auens,^  Violette,  Malvis,  p«rsle, 
betayn,  pacience,  J^e  white  of  the  lekes,  and  \e  croppe  of  ]>%  netle ;  parboile, 
presse  out  the  water,  hew  hem  small,  And  do  there-to  mele.  Take  goode 
broth  of  ffi.-essh  beef,  or  other  goode  flessh  and  mary  bones ;  do  it  in  a  potte, 
set  on  \e  fire  ;  choppe  the  hare  in  peces,  And,  if  J70U  wil,  wassh  hir  in  ]ie  same 
broth,  and  then  drawe  it  thorgh  A  streynowr  with  the  blode.  And  \e\\  put 
aH  on  the  fire.  And  if  she  be  an  olde  hare,  lete  hire  boile  welt,  or  )70U  cast 
in  thi  wortes ;  if  she  be  yonge,  cast  in  aH  togidre  at  ones ;  And  lete  hem 
boyle  til  \q\  be  ynogh,  and  cesofl  hem  with  salt.  And  serue  hem  forth.  The 
same  wise  thou  may  make  wortes  of  A  Gose  of  a  ni^t,^  powdryng  of  beef, 
or  eny  other  fressB  flessh. 

*  Buttered  Wortes.  ^  Take  al  maner  of  good  herbes  that  thou  may  gete, 
and  do  bi  ham  as  is  forsaid ;  putte  hem  on  \q  fire  with  faire  water ;  put 
]7ere-to  clarefied  buttur  a  grete  quantite.  Whan  thei  ben  boyled  ynogh, 
salt  hem ;  late  none  otemele  come  ther<;-in.  Dise  brede  small  in  disshes,  and 
powr<?  on  \q  wortes,  and  serue  hem  forth. 

Cabochis.  %  Take  faire  Cabochis,  pike  hem  and  wassh  hem,  and  parboyle 
1  '  honde  '  crost  through,  and  '  hede '  written  after.     ^  MS.  anens.       3  njght.      *  fol.  26, 


70  COOKERY    BOOK   II.    HARL.    4016.    VENISON   DISHES. 

hem ;  then  presse  oute  the  water  on  a  faire  horde,  choppe  hem,  and  cast  hem 
in  a  faire  potte  with  goode  fressh  hroth  and  with  Mary-bones,  And  lette  hem 
hoyle  ;  then  take  faire  grate  brede,  and  cast  there-to,  saferoil,^  salt,  and  lets 
hoyle  ynogh.  And  then  serue  hit  forth. 

Growell^  fforce.  %  Take  Groweli  y-made  of  ffresh  beef;  And  whan  it  is  y- 
soddeii  ynogh,  drawe  it  thorgh  a  Streynowr  into  a  fair  potte ;  then  take  lene 
porke,  and  seth  it ;  grynde  it  smaH  in  a  morter,  and  temper  it  with  the  seid 
broth,  and  cast  togidre.  And  lete  it  boyle  til  hit  be  ynogh.  And  cast  thereto 
Sapheron  and  salt,  and  serue  it  forth. 

Nombles  of  Veneson.  ^  Take  jSTombles  and  kut  hem  smaH,  whan  they  ben 
rawe  ;  Jiefi  take  fressh  broth,  water,  and  wyne,  of  eche  of  hem  y-lyche  moche, 
pouder  of  peper,  CaneH,  and  boyle  hem  till  it  be  almost  ynogh,  And  then 
cast  powder  ginger  there-to,  And  a  lituH  vynegre ;  salt  and  cesoii  it  vppi?,  and 
Sfrue  it  forth  for  a  gode  potage. 

Venysofi  in  broth.  *[  Take  rybbes  of  venyson,  and  wassh  hem  faire  in 
Water,  And  streyfi  the  Water  thorgh  a  Streynowr  into  a  faire  potte,  and  cast 
J^e  Venyson  thereto,  p^rcely,  Sauge,  powder  of  pep«r,  clouej.  Maces,  Yinegre, 
salt,  And  late  hem  boile  til  j^ei  be  ynow,  &  serue  it  forth. 

'  Furmenty  with  venyson.  ^  Take  faire  whete,  and  kerve  it  in  a  morter, 
And  vanne  a-wey  clene  the  dnste,  and  wassh  it  in  faire  waters  and  lete  it  boile 
tin  hit  breke  ;  tlieii  do  awey  the  water  clene,  and  caste  there-to  swete  mylke, 
and  sette  it  ouer  the  fire.  And  lete  boile  til  it  be  thik  ynogh.  And  caste  there-to 
a  goode  quantite  of  tryed  rawe  yolkes  of  egges,  and  caste  thereto  Sapheron, 
sugur,  and  salt ;  but  late  it  boile  no  more  then,  but  sette  it  on  fewe  coles,  lest 
the  licoure  wax  colde.  And  fen  take  fressh  venyson,  and  water  hit;  seth  hit 
and  bawde  hit;  And  if  hit  be  salt,  water  hit,  sethe  hit,  and  leche  hit  as  hit  shali 
be  serned  forth,  and  put  hit  [in  a  vesseH  wetA  feyre  water,  and  buille  it]^ 
ayen ;  and  as  hit  boyleth,  blowe  a-wey  the  grece,  and  serue  it  forth  with 
fPurmenty,  And  a  litul  of  ])e  broth  in  the  Dissh  all  hote  with  the  flessB. 

Bourreys.  ^  Take  pipes,  hertes,  neres,  myites,  and  of  the  rybbes  of  J>e 
Swyne,  or  elles  take  (if  thou  wilt)  Mallard  or  Goos,  and  choppe  hem  smaH, 
And  then  parboile  it  in  faire  water.  And  take  it  vp,  and  pike  it  clene.  And 
putte  into  a  potte.  And  cast  there-to  Ale  ynogh,  Sauge,  Salt,  And  lete  boile 
right  ynowe,  Sclpen  serue  it  forth. 

Mortreus  de  Chare.  ^  Take  porke,  and  seth  it  ynow ;  and  take  it  vppe, 
and  bawde  hit,  and  hewe  it  and  grinde  i,t,  and  in  a  morter ;  And  cast  thereto 
^  The  MS.  has  here  and  brede  crossed  out.  -  fol.  3.  ^  Added  from  D. 


COOKERY   BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    DISHES   OF    BRAWN.  71 

grated  brede,  and  then  drawe  the  same  broth  thorgh  a  streynom",  And  temper 
hit  with  ale,  and  do  al  into  a  potte,  and  lete  boile,  and  aley  hit  with  yolkes 
of  egges,  And  then  lete  it  boile  no  more,  And  caste  thereto  powder  of  ginger, 
Salt,  And  put  hit  in  disshes  hi  maner  of  Mortrewes,  And  cast  thereto  powder 
of  ginger,  &  serue  it  forth. 

Brawne  in  confite.  ^  Take  fressh  brawne,  and  myce '  it  smali,  and  take 
Almondes,  and  blanche  hem,  and  grinde  hem,  and  draws  hem  thorgh  a 
strayno2n". 

^  Brawne  in  confite.  ^  Take  fressh  brawne,  and  seth  it  ynowe ;  pare  bit, 
and  grinde  hit  in  a  morter,  and  tempei"  it  with  almond  mylke,  and  draw  it 
thorgh  a  Streyno?<r  into  a  potte,  and  cast  thereto  Sugo«r  ynowe,  and  ponder 
of  Clowes,  and  lete  boyle  ;  and  take  ffloure  of  Caneii,  or  powder,  a  goode 
quantite,  and  caste  there-to.  And  lete  boyle,  and  caste  there-to  powder  of 
ginger ;  And  theii  take  it  vp  oute  of  the  potte.  And  put  in  a  lynnen  clothe 
and  presse  it ;  lete  hem  boile  so  long  in  J^e  potte  that  it  be  thik,  And  then  take 
hit  vppe,  and  presse  it  in  the  clothe ;  And  then  leche  hit  faire,  but  not  to 
thyn ;  And  then  take  the  ribbes  of  ])e  boor,  and  al  bare,  and  set  hem  enlonge 
the  leches,  And  serue  it  forthe  .ij.  or  iij.  leches  in  a  dissh. 

Blaunche  brawne.  ^  Take  fressh  Brawne,  and  myce  it  smaH  ;  And  take 
Almondes,  and  blaunche  hem,  and  grynde  hem  thorgh  a  Streyno2<r  into  stuffe 
mylke,  And  put  al  into  a  potte,  and  sugur,  And  boyle  al  togidre  til  hit  be 
right  stuff ;  And  then  take  it  vp,  And  cast  hit  in-to  a  faire  basyn,  And  lete 
it  stonde  there  til  hit  be  aH  colde  ;  And  ]7en  take  a  knyfe  And  leche  it  faire, 
but  not  to  thyn,  And  ]7en  serue  hit  forthe,  a  leche.  or  ij.  in  a  dissh. 

Browne  in  egurdouce.^  ^  Take  mighti  broth  of  beef  or  of  Capon,  or  take 
faire  fressh  brawne,  and  seth  hit,  but  not  ynow.  And  theii  leche  hit,  And 
cast  hit  into  the  broth ;  then  take  hole  oynones,  pike  hem,^  And  cast  hem  al 
hole  there-to ;  then  take  Yynegre  and  CaneH,  and  sette  on  l^e  fire,  and  hete 
hem,  and  drawe  hem  ]7orgh  a  Streynoure,  and  cast  hit  there-to.  Then  take 
clowes.  Maces,  powder  of  peper,  and  cast  thereto,  and  a  lituH  Sawndres, 
And  sette  hit  ouer  J^e  fyre  and  lete  boyle  til  J»e  oynones  and  the  brawne 
ben  even  sodde,  and  not  to  moche  ;  then  take  licowr  made  of  brede,  vynegre, 
'and  wyii,  and  sesofi  it  vppe,  and  caste  thereto  a  litul  saferon  to  coloure  hit, 
and  salt.  And  serve  it  forth. 

Brawne  in  peuard.^  ^  Take  wyn,  pouder  of  CaneH,  drawe  hit  thorgh  a 

^  inicer,  michier,  depecer,  mettre  en  pieces. — Hippeau.  Gloss.  *  fol.  Zb. 

*  D.  calls  this  "  Braune  en  peueruade,"  it  is  recipe  56  there.  *  D.  pile,  i.e.  peel. 

&  fol.  4.  ®  Braune  eu  peut^uade,  D. 


72  COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    GARBAGE,    STEWS,    ETC. 

Streyno?<r,  set  hit  ouer  the  fire,  lete  hit  boile,  caste  there-to  Maces,  cloues, 
powder  of  Peper  ;  take  smale  onyons  hole,  pflrboyle  hem,  caste  thereto  ;  lete 
hem  boile  togider ;  then  take  Brawne,  leche  hit,  but  not  to  thin  ;  And  if  hit 
be  saused,  let  stepe  hit  in  Hote  water  til  hit  be  tender,  then  cast  hit  into  ]>e 
siripe ;  take  Saundres,  Vynegre,  and  caste  there-to,  And  lete  boile  al  togidre 
til  hit  be  ynowe  ;  then  take  powder  of  ginger,  caste  thereto ;  lete  hit  not  be 
thik  ne  to  thyn,  butte  as  potage  shulde  be ;  And  serve  hit  forthe. 

Garbage.  ^  Take  faire  Garbage,  chikenes  hedes,  ffete,  lyvers,  And  gysers,  and 
"wassh  hem  clene ;  caste  hem  into  a  faire  potte,  And  caste  f ressh  broth  of  Beef, 
powder  of  Peper,  Caneli,  Clowes,  Maces,  Parcely  and  Sauge  myced  smaH ; 
then  take  brede,  stepe  hit  in  \ie  same  brothe,  Drawe  hit  thorgh  a  streynowr, 
cast  thereto,  And  lete  boyle  ynowe;  caste  there-to  ponder  ginger,  vergeoMS, 
salt,  And  a  lituH  Safferon,  And  serve  hit  forthe. 

Pigge  or  chiken  in  Sauge.  ^  Take  a  pigge.  Draw  him,  smyte  of  his  hede, 
kutte  him  in  .iiij.  quarters,  boyle  him  til  he  be  ynow,  take  him  vppe,  and  lete 
cole,  smyte  him  in  peces  ;  take  an  hondefuH.  or  .ij.  of  Sauge,  wassh  hit,  grynde 
it  in  a  morter  with  hard  yolkes  of  egges ;  then  drawe  hit  vppe  with  goods 
vinegre,  but  make  hit  not  to  thyii ;  then  seson  hit  with  powder  of  Peper, 
ginger,  and  salt;  then  cowche  thi  pigge  in  disshes,  and  caste  fe  sirippe  J;er- 
vppon,  and  serue  it  forthe. 

Stwed  BeeJff.  ^  Take  faire  Eibbes  of  ffresh  beef,  And  (if  thou  wilt)  roste 
hit  Hil  hit  be  nygfi  ynowe;  then  put  hit  in  a  faire  possenet ;  caste  ]>er-to 
p«rcely  and  oynons  mynced,  reysons  of  corauns,  powder  peper,  canel,  clowes, 
saundres,  safferon,  and  salt ;  then  caste  there-to  wyii  and  a  lituH  vynegre  ;  sette 
a  1yd  on  J^e  potte,  and  lete  hit  boile  sokingly  on  a  faire  charcole  til  hit  be 
ynogh  ;  j^eil  lay  the  f9.essii,  in  disshes,  and  the  sirippe  there-vppoil.  And  serve 
it  forth. 

Stwed  Mutton.  ^  Take  faire  Mutton  that  hath  beii  roste,  or  elles  Capons,  or 
suche  o|?er  flessfi,  and  mynce  it  faire ;  put  hit  into  a  possenet,  or  elles  bitwen 
ij.  siluer  disshes  ;  caste  thereto  faire  p«rcely.  And  oynons  smaH  mynced;  then 
caste  there-to  wyn,  and  a  lituH  vynegre  or  vergeous,  pouder  of  peper,  Canel, 
salt  and  saffron,  and  lete  it  stue  on  j^e  faire  coles.  And  ])eh  serue  hit  forthe ; 
if  he  have  no  wyne  ne  vynegre,  take  Ale,  Mustard,  and  A  quantite  of  vergeous, 
and  do  J^is  in  'pe  stede  of  vyne  or  vinegre. 

Capons  Stwed.  ^  Take  p<?rcelly,  Sauge,  Isoppe,  Eose  Mary,  and  tyme,  and 
breke  hit  bitwen  thi  hondes,  and  stoppe  the  Capon  there-with ;  colowr  hym 

1  fol.  4i. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    VENISON,    FRITTERS.  73 

with  Safferon,  and  couche  him  in  a  erthen  potte,  or  of  brasse,  and  ley  splentes 
vnderneth  and  al  aboujt  the  sides,  that  the  Capon  toiiche  no  things  of  the 
potte ;  strawe  good  herbes  in  ]>e  potte,  and  put  there-to  a  pottel  of  the  best 
Avyn  that  thou  may  gete,  and  none  other  licowr ;  hele '  the  potte  with  a  close 
led,  and  stoppe  hit  aboujte  with  dogh  or  hater,  that  no  eier  come  oute ;  And 
set  hit  on  ]^e  faire  charcole,  and  lete  it  seeth  easly  and  longe  tiH  hit  be  ynowe. 
And  if  hit  be  an  erthen  potte,  jjen  set  hit  on  ]>e  fire  whan  ]70u  takest  hit 
downe,  and  lete  hit  not  touche  ])e  grounde  for  breking  ;  And  whan  ]>e  hete  is 
ouer  past,  take  oute  the  Capon  with  a  prik ;  theii  make  a  sirippe  of  wyne, 
Reysons  of  corance,  sugur  and  safFeron,  And  boile  hit  a  lituH;  ^medel  pouder 
of  Ginger  with  a  litul  of  the  same  wyii,  and  do  ]7er«to  ;  then  do  awey  the  fatte 
of  the  sewe  of  the  Capon,  And  do  the  Sirypp^  to  ]>e  sewe,  and  powre  hit  on  ]>e 
capon,  and  serue  it  forth. 

Flathonys.  ^  Take  mylke,  and  yolkes  of  egges,  and  ale,  and  drawe  hem 
thorgh  a  straynowr,  with  white  sugur  or  blak ;  And  melt  faire  butter,  and  put 
thereto  salt,  and  make  fairs  coffyns,  and  put  hem  into  a  Nowne^  til  Jiei  be  a 
lituH  hard ;  ]>eQ  take  a  pile,  and  a  dissh  fastned  there-on,  and  fill  j^e  coffyns 
therewith  of  the  seid  stuffe  and  late  hem  bake  a  while.  And  J7en  take  hem 
oute,  and  serue  hem  forthe,  and  caste  Sugur  ynogh  oil  hem. 

Venyson  ybake.  ^  Take  hanches  of  Venysoil,  parboile  it  in  faire  water  and 
salt ;  ]>en  take  faire  paast,  and  ley  there-ofi  ])e  Venyson  y-cutte  in  pieces  as  ]>o\i 
wolt  have  it,  and  cast  vnder  hit,  and  aboue  hit,  powder  of  ginger,  or  peper 
and  salt  medylde  togidre,  And  sette  hem  in  An  oven,  and  lete  hem  bake  til 
]jcj  be  ynogh. 

FrutOMls.  ^  Take  yolkes  of  egges,  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  streynoi<r,  caste 
there-to  faire  floure,  berme  and  ale ;  stere  it  togidre  til  hit  be  thik.  Take 
pared  appelles,  cut  hem  thyn  like  obleies,*  ley  hem  in  ]>e  batur ;  ]>en  put  hem 
into  a  Ifrying  pan,  and  fry  hem  in  faire  grece  or  buttur  til  }ei  ben  browne 
yelowe  ;  then  put  hem  in  disshes,  and  strawe  Sugur  on  hem  ynogh,  And 
serue  hem  forthe. 

Longe  FrutOMrs.  ^  Take  Mylke  And  make  faire  croddes  there-of  in  maner 
of  chese  al  tendur,  and  take  oute  ]>e  way  clene  ;  theii  put  hit  in  a  faire  boH, 
And  take  yolkes  of  egges,  and  white,  and  menge  floure,  and  caste  thereto  a 
good  quantite,  and  drawe  hit  j^orgh  a  streynoure  into  a  faire  vesseH ;  then 
put  hit  in  a  faire  pan,  and  fry  hit  ^  a  lituH  in  faire  grece,  but  lete  not  boyle  ; 
then  take  it  oute,  and  ley  on  a  faire  borde,  and  kutte  it  in  faire  smale  peces 
1  cover.  ^  iol.  5.  ^  an  oven.  *  sacramental  wafers.  ^  lol.  5b. 


74       COOKERY   BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    CUSTARDS,    AND    MEAT   TARTS. 

as  thou  list,  And  putte  hem  ayefi  into  the  panne  til  thei  be  browne ;  And 
then  caste  Sugur  on  hem,  and  serue  hem  forth. 

Pety  p^rnantes.  ^  Take  faire  floure,  Sugur,  Saffron,  and  salt,  and  make 
paast  ]>er-o{;  theii  make  small  Coffyns,  theii  cast  in  eche  a  coffyn  .iij.  or  iiij 
rawe  yolkes  of  egges  hole,  and  ij.  gobettes  or  iij.  of  Mary  couche  ]>enn;  ])en 
take  powder  of  ginger,  Sugur,  Eeysons  of  Gorans,  and  cast  above  ;  ]>.en  cover 
the  coffyn  with  a  1yd  of  ]>e  same  paste  ;  then  bake  hem  in  a  oveii,  or  elles 
fry  hem  in  faire  grece  fressB,  And  then  serve  hit  forthe. 

Anter  peti  pernantes.  ^  Take  and  make  thi  Coffyns  as  hit  is  a-for  said ; 
then  take  rawe  yolkes  of  egges,  tryude  in  sugur,  ponder  of  Gynger,  and 
resons  of  Gorans,  and  mysed  mary,  but  not  to  smaH,  And  caste  aA  this  into  a 
faire  boH,  and  medel  aH  to-gidre,  and  put  hit  in  coffyns,  and  bake  hem,  or  fry 
hem  as  ]>oii  diddest  be  ]>&  toj^er. 

Custarde.  ^  Take  Yele,  and  smyte  hit  in  lituH  peces,  and  wassh  it  clene; 
put  hit  into  a  faire  potte  with  faire  water,  and  lete  hit  boyle  togidre  ;  ]>eT\  take 
pflrcelly,  Sauge,  Isoppe,  Sauerey,  wassh  hem,  hewe  hem,  And  cast  hem  into 
flessB.  whan  hit  boileth ;  then  take  powder  of  peper,  canel,  Glowes,  Maces, 
Saffron,  salt,  and  lete  hem  boyle  togidre,  and  a  goode  dele  of  wyne  with  aH, 
And  whan  the  flesshl  is  boyled,  take  it  vppe  fro  ]>e  broth,  And  lete  the  broth 
kele.  "Whan  hit  is  colde,  streyne  yolkes  and  white  of  egges  thorgh  a 
streynoMr,  and  put  hem  to  the  broth,  so  many  that  the  broth  be  styff  ynowe. 
And  make  faire  cofyns,  and  couche  iij.  or  iiij.  peces  of  the  flessh  in  ]>e  Coffyns  ; 
then  take  Dates,  prunes,  and  kutte  hem ;  cast  thereto  powder  of  Gynger  and 
a  lituH  ^  Vergeous,  and  put  to  the  broth,  and  salt ;  then  lete  the  coffyn  and 
the  flessh  bake  a  lituH ;  And  j^en  put  the  broth  in  the  coffyns,  And  lete 
hem  bake  till  they  be  ynogh. 

Custard  lumbarde.  ^  Take  good  creme,-  and  yolkes  And  white  of  egges,  and 
breke  hem  thereto,  and  streyne  hem  aH  ]7orgh  a  strayno?<r  tiH  hit  be  so  thik 
that  it  woH  here  him  self ;  And  take  faire  Mary,  And  Dates,  cutte  in  ij.  or  iij. 
and  prunes,  and  put  hem  in  faire  coffyns  of  paast ;  And  then  put  J^e  coffyn  in 
an  oven.  And  lete  hem  bake  tiH  thei  be  hard.  And  then  drawe  hem  cute,  and 
putte  the  licoure  into  'pe  Coffyns,  And  put  hem  into  jje  oven  ayefi.  And  lete 
hem  bake  till  they  be  ynogh,  but  cast  sugur  and  salt  in  j>i  licowr  whan  ye 
putte  hit  into  ]>e  coffyns ;  And  if  hit  be  in  lentofi,  take  creme  of  Almondes, 
And  leve  the  egges  And  the  Mary. 

Tartus  of  fflesh.  ^  Take  fressh  porke,  hew  it  smaH,  grynde  it  in  a  morter, 
1  fol.  6.  -  The  MS.  has  here  and  fioiles  of  parcelly  crossed  through. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    TARTS,    AND   PARIS   PIES.  75 

and  take  it  vpp^  into  a  faire  vesseH: ;  And  take  yolkes  and  white  of  egges, 
streyn  hem  J^orgli  a  streynowr,  and  temper  ]7e  porke  there-with  ;  then  take 
pynys,  reysons  of  coraunce,  and  fry  hem  in  fressB.  grece,  and  cast  ther<?to 
ponder  of  peper,  Gingere,  CaneH,  Sugur,  Safferoii  and  salt,  and  do  hit  in  a 
coffyii,  and  plante  the  cofFyfi  above  with  prunes,  and  kutte  dates,  and  grete 
reysynges,  and  smale  birdes,  and  or  ellej  hard  Yolkes  of  egges ;  and  if  jjou 
take  birdes,  fry  hem  a  lituH;  in  fresh  grece,  or  thou  putte  hem  into  ]>e  CofFyn ; 
then  endore  hit  with  yolkes  of  egges  and  witli  saffron,  and  lete  bake  hit  til 
hit  be  ynogh,  and  so  serue  hit  forth. 

Lese  fryes.^  ^  Take  nessh  chese,  and  pare  it  clene,  and  grinde  hit  in  a 
morter  small,  and  drawe  yolkes  and  white  of  egges  thorgh  a  streyno«r,  and 
cast  there-to,  and  grinde  hem  togidrc;  then  cast  thereto  Sugur,  -butter  and 
salt,  and  put  al  togidre  in  a  coffyn  of  faire  paast.  And  lete  bake  ynowe,  and 
then  seme  it  forthe. 

Auter  Tartus.  ^  Take  faire  nessh  chese  that  is  buttry,  and  par  hit,  grynde 
hit  in  a  morter ;  caste  therto  faire  creme  and  grinde  hit  togidre ;  temper  hit  with 
goode  mylke,  that  hit  be  no  thikker  jreh  rawe  creme,  and  cast  thereto  a  litul 
salt  if  nede  be ;  And  ^  thi  chese  be  salte,  caste  thereto  neuer  a  dele  ;  colowr  hit 
with  saffron ;  then  make  a  large  coflPyn  of  faire  paste,  &  lete  the  brinkes  be 
rered  more  j^eii  an  enche  of  hegh ;  lete  ]>e  coffyn  harden  in  ]>e  oven  ;  l^en  take 
it  oute,  put  gobettcs  of  butter  in  the  bothoni  thereof.  And  caste  the  stuffe 
there-to,  and  caste  peces  of  buttur  there-vppoii,  and  sette  in  ]>e  oven  with-oute 
lydde,  and  lete  bake  ynowe,  and  then  cast  sugur  thereon,  and  serue  it  forth. 
And  if  J70U  wilt,  lete  him  haue  a  lydde ;  but  pen  thi  stuff  most  be  as  thikke 
as  Mortrewes. 

Dariolles.  ^  Take  wyne  and  fressh  broth,  Clowes,  Maces,  Mary,  powder  of 
Gynger,  and  Saffron,  And  lete  al  boyle  togidre;  And  take  Creme,  (and  if  hit  be 
cloutes,  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  streynowr,)  And  yolkes  of  egges,  and  medle  hem 
togidre,  and  powre  the  licoure  that  jje  mary  was  soden  in,  thereto  ;  And  then 
make  faire  cofyns  of  fyne  paast,  and  putte  the  mary  there-in,  and  myced  dates 
And  streberies,  if  hit  be  in  time  of  yere,  and  sette  jie  Coffyns  in  j^e  oven,  And 
lete  bake  a  lituH  while,  And  take  hem  oute,  and  putte  the  licowr  thereto,  And 
lete  hem  bake  ynouh 

Pies  of  Parys.  ^  Take  and  smyte  faire  buttes  of  porke  and  buttes  of  vele 

togidre,  and  put  hit  in  a  faire  potte.  And  putte  thereto  faire  broth,  And  a 

fjuantite  of  Wyne,  And  lete  aH:  boile  togidre  til  hit  be  ynogh ;  And  ]ieh  take 

hit  fro  the  fire,  and  lete  kele  [a  litel,  and  cast  ther-to  raw  yolkes  of  eyren), 

1  D.  Leche  fryej.  2  fol.  6b.  3  if. 


76  COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    PIES,    HERBEBLADE. 

and  pouudre  of  gjngeuere,  sugre  and  salt,  and  mynced  dates,  reysyns  of 
corence :  make  then  cofFyns  of  feyre  past,  and  do  it  ther-ynne,  and  keuere 
it  &  lete  bake  y-nog1i.]  ^ 

^Grete  pyes.  ^  Take  faii-e  yonge  beef,  And  suet  of  a  fatte  beste,  or  of  Motton, 
and  hak  aH  this  on  a  borde  smali  ;  And  caste  thereto  ponder  of  peper  and 
salt;  And  whan  it  is  small  heweii,  put  hit  in  a  bolle,  And  medle  hem  weH; 
theii  make  a  fairs  large  Cofyn,  and  couche  som  of  this  stuffur  in//  Then 
take  Capons,  Hennas,  Mallardes,  Connynges,  and  parboile  hem  clene ;  take 
wodekokk^s,  teles,  grete  briddes,  and  plom  hem  in  a  boiKng  potte  ;  And 
theii  couche  al  J^is  fowle  in  jie  Coffyii,  And  put  in  euerych  of  hem  a  quantite 
of  ponder  of  peper  and  salt//  Then  take  mary,  harde  yolkes  of  egges.  Dates 
cutte  in  ij.  peces,  reisons  of  coraunce,  prunes,  hole  clowes,  hole  maces,  CaneH, 
and  saffron.  But  first,  whan  thou  hast  cowched  aH  thi  foule,  ley  the  reme- 
naunt  of  thyne  other  stuffur  of  beef  a-bought  hem,  as  J^ou  thenkest  goode ; 
and  then  strawe  on  hem  this :  dates,  mary,  and  reysons,  &c..  And  then  close 
thi  Coffyn  with  a  lydde  of  the  same  paast,  And  putte  hit  in  ])e  oven.  And 
late  hit  bake  ynogh  ;  but  be  ware,  or  thou  close  hit,  that  there  come  no  saffron 
nygh  the  briukes  there- of,  for  then  hit  wol  neuer  close. 

Herbe-blade.  ^  Take  buttes  of  Porke,  and  smyte  hem  in  peces,  and  sette 
hit  oil  the  fire,  and  seth  it  in  faire  water ;  And  whan  hit  is  sodeii  y-nogh,  take 
it  oute,  and  baude  hit,  and  pike  oute  J^e  bones,  and  hewe  it  small,  and  putte 
hit  in  a  faire  boU.  And  take  Isop,  Sauge,  and  parcelly  a  goode  quantite ; 
pike  hit,  and  hewe  hit  smaH,  And  put  hit  in  faire  vessellcz ;  And  take  a  litul  of 
]7e  brotli  ]7at  J^e  porke  was  sodeii  yii,  and  drawe  hit  j^orgh  a  streynowr,  and 
caste  to  the  erbeblade,  and  yef  hit  a  boyle ;  theii  take  oute  ]>e  herbes  witfi  a 
Skymoea'  fro  the  broth,  And  cast  hem  into  ]>e  porke  in  ]>e  bolle ;  And  thefi 
myce  faire  dates  small,  And  caste  hem  there-to.  And  reysoiis  of  coraunce,  and 
pynes;  And  draw  rawe  yolkes  of  egges  thorgh  a  strayno?<r,  and  caste  thereto 
Sugur,  powder  of  Ginger,  salt;  colour  hit  with  a  lituH  saffroii ;  And  truH 
hit  with  ^thi  honde,  al  this  togidur  in  'pe  bolle  ;  And  ]?eii  make  faire  rownde 
cofyns,  and  put  hem  in  the  oveii,  and  hard  hem  a  lituH,  and  take  hem  oute 
ayeii,  and  with  a  dissh  in  thi  honde,  fil  hem  full  of  the  stuffe,  and  sette  hem 
ayeii  in  the  oven  al  opeii,  And  let  hem  bake  ynowe.  And  thenne  serue  hit  forth. 

Chawdwyii.  ^  Take  Gysers,  lyuers,  and  hertes  of  Swannes,  or  of  wilde 
gese  ;  And  if  ]>e  guttes  be  fatte,  slytte  hem,  and  cast  hem  there-to,  And  boile 
hem  in  faire  water ;  And  theii  take  hem  vppe,  And  hew  hem  smale,  and  caste 
1  Added  from  D.  «  fol.  7.  »  fol.  7b. 


COOKERY    BOOK    11.    HARL.    4016.    PICKLE    AND    SAUCES.  77 

into  ]>e  same  brot!i  ayene,biit  streyne  hit  Jiorgli  a  streynota*  firste  ;  And  caste 
thereto  ponder  of  peper  and  of  caneH,  and  salt,  and  vinegi-e,  And  lete  boile  ; 
And  ]7en  take  ]>e  blode  of  ])e  swan,  and  fressh  broth,  and  brede,  and  drawe 
hem  ])orgh  a  streynowr  and  cast  thereto,  And  lete  al  boyle  togidre  ;  And 
jieh  take  ponder  of  Gynger,  whan  hit  is  al-moost  ynough,  And  caste  '  there-to, 
And  serue  it  forthe. 

PikkyH  ipotir  le  Mallard.  ^  Take  oynons,  and  hewe  hem  smaH,  and  fry 
hem  in  fressh  grace,  and  caste  hem  into  a  potte,  And  fressh  broth  of  beef, 
Wyne,  &  powder  of  poper,  canel,  and  dropping  of  the  mallard/  And  lete  hem 
boile  togidur  awhile  ;  And  take  hit  fro  ]>e  ijre,  and  caste  thereto  mustard  a 
litul,  And  ponder  of  ginger.  And  lete  hit  boile  no  more,  and  salt  hit,  And 
seme  it  forthe  with  j^e  Mallard. 

Sauce  gamelyne.  ^  Take  faire  brede,  and  kutte  it,  and  take  vinegre  and 
wyne,  &  stepe  ]>e  brede  therein,  and  drawe  hit  thorgh  a  streynowr  with 
powder  of  canel,  and  drawe  hit  twies  or  thries  til  hit  be  smoth ;  and  ]>en  take 
ponder  of  ginger,  Sugur,  and  ponder  of  clones,  and  cast  ])erto  a  litul  saffron 
and  lete  hit  be  thik  ynogh,  '^and  thenne  serue  hit  forthe. 

Sauce  sermstele.^  ^  Take  Milke  and  a  litul  floure,  And  caste  hit  in  a  potte, 
And  lete  boile  al  togidur  al  thyii ;  and  whan  hit  is  wel  boyled,  take  and 
stampe  garlek  small,  and  caste  there-to  ponder  of  peper,  and  salt,  And  then 
serue  hit  forthe. 

Sauce  oylepeuer.*  ^  Take  faire  browne  brede,  and  tost  hit,  and  stepe  hit  in  ■ 
vinegre,   and  drawe  it  thorgh  a  streynoza",  and  caste  there-to  garlek  (butte 
stampe  it  smaH  first) ;  And  caste  there-to  pouder  of  peper,  And  salte.  And 
serue  hit  forth. 

Sauce  Verte.  ^  Take  -parcelj,  Mintes,  Betany,  Peleter,  and  grinds  hem 
smale ;  And  take  faire  brede,  and  stepe  hit  in  vinegre,  and  drawe  it  thorgh  a 
streynowr,  and  cast  thereto  pouder  of  peper,  salt,  and  serue  it  forth. 

Sauce  Gynger.  ^  Take  faire  white  brede,  and  stepe  it  in  vinegre,  and 
drawe  hit  thorgh  a  streyno?<r  twies  or  thries,  and  caste  there-to  pouder  of 
ginger  and  salte ;  but  lete  it  not  be  to  thyn,  bnt  soni  what  stiff,  And  then 
serue  hit  forthe. 

Sauce  SoreH.  ^  Take  SoreH,  grynde  hem  smaH,  And  drawe  hem  thorgh  a 
Streynoure,  and  caste  there-to  Salt,  and  serue  hit  forth. 

Sauce  galentyne.  ^  Take  faire  crustes  of  browne  brede  stept  in  vinegre, 
And  cast  thereto  pouder  of  caneH,  and  lete  hit  stepe  therewith,  til  hit  be 

1  caste  repeated  in  MS.       *  fol.  8.       ^  D.  Sauuce  gauncelle.         *  D.  Sauuce  alpeutre. 


78  COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    ROAST    AND    STEWED    BIRDS. 

browne;  j^en  clrawe  hit  thorgh  a  strejnour  ones  or  twyes,  And  caste  there-to 
ponder  of  pep^r,  And  lete  hit  be  som-whatte  stonding,  And  ]7en  seme  hit 
forthe. 

Swan  rested.  ^  ^  Kutte  a  Swan  in  the  rove '  of  the  moiithe  toward  the 
brayne  enlouge,  and  lete  him  blede,  and  kepe  the  blode  for  chawdewyn ;  or 
elles  knytte  a  knot  on  his  nek,  And  so  late  his  nekke  breke;  theii  skald  him. 
Drawe  him  and  rost  him  even  as  thou  doest  goce  in  aH  poyntes,  and  seme 
him  forth  with  chawd-wyne. 

Crane  rested.  ^  Lete  a  Crane  blode  in  the  monthe  as  thou  diddist  a  Swan ; 
fold  Tp  his  legges,  kutte  of  his  winges  at  ]>e  ioynte  next  fe  body,  drawe 
him,  Wynde  the  nekke  abought  the  spit ;  putte  the  biH  in  his  brest :  his 
sauce  is  to  be  mynced  with  pouder  of  ginger,  vynegre,  &  Mustard. 

ffesaunte  rested.  ^  Lete  a  ffesaunte  blode  in  ]>e  mouthe  as  a  crane,  And 
lete  him  blede  to  dethe ;  puH  him  dry,  kutte  awey  his  hede  and  the  necke  by 
fe  body,  and  the  legges  by  the  kne,  and  putte  ]>e  kneys  in  at  the  vente,  and 
roste  him  :  his  sauce  is  Sugur  and  mustard. 

Partrich  rested.  ^  Take  a  p«rtrich,  and  sle  him  in  J^e  nape  of  the  hede 
with  a  fethur;^  dight  him,  larde  him,  and  roste  him  as  ]70u  doest  a  ffesaunte 
in  the  same  wise,  And  serue  him  forth ;  then  sauce  him  yvith  wyne,  pouder  of 
ginger  and  salt,  And  sette  hit  in  a  dissh  on  the  fuyre  til  hit  boyle ;  then  cast 
powder  ginger,  CaneH,  thereon.  And  kutte  him  so ;  or  elles  ete  him  with  sugur 
and  Mustard. 

Partrich  stwed.  ^  Take  faire  mighti  broth  of  beef  or  of  Mutton  when  hit 
is  boyled  ynow,  and  streyii  hit  thorgh  a  streyno?<r,  and  put  hit  into  an  ertheii 
potte,  And  take  a  good  quantite  of  wyne,  as  hit  were  half  a  pynte.  And  take 
partrich,  clones.  Maces,  and  hole  peper,  and  cast  in-to  ]>e  potte,  and  lete  boile 
wel  togidre ;  And  whan  the  partrich  ben  ynogh,  take  the  potte  from  the  fuyre, 
and  then  take  faire  brede  kutte  in  thyn  *browes,  and  couche  hem  in  a  faire 
chargoi<r,  and  ley  the  partrich  on  loft ;  And  take  powder  of  Ginger,  salt,  and 
hard  yolkes  of  egges  mynced,  and  caste  into  the  broth,  and  powre  the  broth 
vppon  the  partrich  into  the  chargeoea',  and  serue  it  forth,  but  late  hit  be 
colored  with  saffron. 

Heren  rested.  ^  Take  a  Heron ;  lete  him  blode  as  a  crane.  And  serue  him 

in  al  poyntes  as  a  crane,  in  scalding,  drawing,  and  kuttyng  the  bone  of  the 

nekke  a-wey,  And  lete  the  skyn  be  oil,  &c. ;  roste  him  and  sause  him  as  ]>e 

Crane ;  breke  awey  the  bone  fro  the  kne  to  J^e  fote,  And  lete  the  skyii  be  on. 

1  fol.  Sb.  2  roof,  3  D_  settles  this  stop.  *  fol.  9. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    ROAST    PEACOCK,    ETC.  79 

Bytor  rested.  ^  Take  a  Bitowr,  sle  him  in  the  mouthe,  skalde  him,  seme 
him  in  aH  poyutes  as  ]70U  doest  a  Crane,  but  lets  him  haue  on  his  winges 
when  he  is  rested,  And  serue  him  forthe. 

Curlewe  rosted.  ^  Take  a  Curlewe,  sle  him  as  a  Crane,  pul  him  dry,  kutte 
of  the  winges  by  the  body,  draws  him,  dight  him  as  a  Henne,  And  folde  vp 
his  legges  as  a  crane ;  lete  his  necke  and  his  hede  be  on ;  take  awey  the 
nether  lippe  and  throte  boH,  and  put  his  hede  in  at  his  shuldur,  and  roste 
him  as  a  Crane,  and  no  sauuce  but  salte. 

Egrete  rosted.  ^  Take  an  Egrets,  sis  him  as  a  Crane,  skalde  him  and 
drawe  him,  and  kutte  his  winges,  and  folde  his  legges  as  a  crane,  and  roste 
him,  And  seme  him  forth ;  and  no  sauce  but  salte. 

Brewe  rosted.  ^  Take  a  Brews,  sle  him  as  ]>e  Curlewe,  skalde  him,  drawe 
him  as  a  hen,  brsks  his  legges  at  ]>e  kne,  and  take  awey  the  bone  fro  the 
kus  to  ]>e  fote,  as  a  heron ;  And  kutte  the  winges  by  the  body,  and  his  hede 
by  the  body,  and  put  him  on  a  spitts,  And  bynde  his  legges  as  a  heron  ;  roste 
him,  reyse  his  legges  and  his  winges  as  a  heron,  And  take  no  maner  sauce 
butte  salte. 

'  Q,uayle  rosted.  ^  Take  a  Quayls,  and  sle  him,  And  serue  him  as  thou  doest 
a  partrich  in  aH  Degre.     His  Sauce  is  sauce  gamelyne. 

Pecok  rosted.  ^  Take  a  Pecok,  breke  his  necke,  and  kutte  his  throte,  And 
fle  him,  ]>e  skyil  and  the  fFethurs  togidre,  and  the  beds  stiH:  to  the  skyii  of 
the  nekke,  And  keps  the  skyn  and  the  ffethurs  hole  togiders;  drawe  him  as 
an  hen.  And  kepe  ]>e  bone  to  'pe  necks  hole,  and  roste  him.  And  set  the  bone 
of  the  necks  aboue  the  broehe,  as  he  was  wonte  to  sitte  a-lyve.  And  abowe 
the  legges  to  J^e  body,  as  he  was  wonte  to  sitte  a-lyvs ;  And  whaii  hs  is  rosted 
ynowe,  take  him  of.  And  Iste  him  kele ;  And  J'eil  wynde  the  skyii  with  the 
fethurs  and  the  taile  abought  the  body.  And  serue  him  forthe  as  he  were 
a-live ;  or  ellej  puH  him  dry.  And  roste  him,  and  serue  him  as  |70u  doest  a 
henne. 

SorceH  rosted.  ^  Take  a  SorceH  or  a  tele,  and  broke  his  necke,  and  pul  him 
dry,  And  draw  him  as  a  chekon,  and  kutte  off  his  fete  and  winges  by  the 
body  and  j^e  nekke,  and  roste  him,  and  reise  his  winges  and  his  legges  as  a 
heron,  if  he  be  a  SorceH ;  And  no  sauce  but  salt. 

Plouer.  ^  Take  a  plouer,  and  breke  his  skoH,  and  pull  him  dry,  And  drawe 

him  as  a  chekon,  And  kutte  j^e  legges  and  the  winges  as  a  henne ;  And  no 

sauce  but  salt. 

1  fol.  9b. 


80  COOKERY    BOOK    IT.    HARL.    4016.    DISHES   OF    CONIES. 

Wodekok.  ^  Take  a  wodecok,  and  sle  liim  as  j>e  plouer ;  pul  him  dry,  or 
elles  breke  his  bakke,  And  lete  the  senile  be  hole  ;  drawe  him,  And  kutte  of 
his  winges  by  the  body,  and  turne  vp  the  legges  as  J-ou  doest  of  a  crane  ; 
put  his  biH  thorgh  bothe  his  thighes ;  roste  him,  And  reise  his  legges  And 
his  winges,  as  thou  doest  of  aH  maner  of  other  clouen  fote  fowle. 

^  Snyte. — Take  a  Snyte,  and  sle  him  as  thou  doste  a  wodecok ;  pulle  him, 
late  his  necke  be  hole,  save  the  wesing ;  put  the  biH  in  the  shulder,  and  f  olde 
]>e  legges  as  a  Crane  ;  roste  him,  And  dight  him  as  the  Wodecok. 

Conyng.  ^  Take  a  Conyng,  fle  him.  And  di-aw  him  aboue  and  byneth.  And 
parboile  him.  And  larde  him,  and  roste  him.  And  late  the  hede  be  oii ;  And 
vndo  hi?«,  and  sauce  him  with  sauce,  ginger,  And  vergeous,  and  powder  of 
ginger.  And  thenne  serue  hit  forth. 

Conyng  in  Gravey.  ^  Take  blanched  Almondes,  grinde  hem  with  wyn 
And  gode  broth  of  befe  and  Mutton,  and  draw  hit  thorgh  a  Streyno?<r,  and 
cast  hit  into  a  potte,  and  lete  boile ;  and  caste  there-to  pouder  of  ginger, 
clowes.  Maces,  and  sugur//  And  then  take  a  Conyng,  and  seth  him  ynogh  in 
goode  fressh  broth,  and  choppe  him.  And  take  of  the  skyfi  clone,  and  pike 
hem  clene  And  cast  hit  to  the  Sirippe,  And  lete  boyle  ones.  And  s^rue  forth. 

Conyng  or  hen  in  clene^  broth.  ^  Take  a  Conyng  or  a  hen,  and  seth  him 
ynowe  in  good  fressh  broth,  and  drawe  J^e  same  broth  thr[o]gh  a  Streyno?<r ; 
And  take  half  a  pynte  of  white  wyn,  and  caste  there-to ;  And  then  sette  it 
ouer  the  fire,  and  then  choppy  the  Conyng  or  the  hen,  and  take  of  the  Skyn, 
and  pike  hew*  clene,  and  caste  thereto,  And  lete  boile  togidre ;  And  whan 
hit  is  boiled  ynogh,  caste  thei'e-to  powder  of  ginger,  vergeous,  and  salt  also; 
And  then  thou  shaH  serue  it  forth. 

Conyng,  hen,  or  Mallard.^  ^  Take  Conyng,  Hen,  or  Mallard,  and  roste 
him  al-moste  ynowe ;  or  elles  choppe  hem,  and  fry  hem  in  fressh  grece ; 
and  fry  oynons  myced,  and  cast  al  togidre  into  a  potte,  and  caste  there-to 
fressh  broth  and  half  wyne ;  caste  thereto  Clones,  Maces,  powder  of  Peper, 
CaneH ;  then  stepe  faire  brede  with  the  same  broth  and  drawe  hit  thorgh 
*a  streynoia-  with  vinegre.  And  whan  hit  hath  wel  boiled,  caste  the  licoMr 
thereto,  and  pouder  ginger,  and  vinegre,  and  ceson  hit  vppe.  And  theii  thou 
shaH  serue  hit  forth. 

Gelyne  endobat.  ^  Take  a  hen,  and  roste  hir  al-moost  ynogh,  and  chop  hir 
smaH  in  faire  peces,  and  caste  hem  into  a  potte ;  and  take  fressh  broth  and 
halff  wyne,  and  caste  there-to  Maces,  Peper,  Clowes,  and  caneH ;  and  stepe 

1  fol.  10.  Snipe.  ^  £)ouce  MS.  clere.  '  D.  adds  en  oylc.  *  fol.  10*. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HAUL.    4016.    STUFT    CHICKEN    AND    GEESE.       81 

faire  brede  with  the  same  broth  and  with  vinegre,  and  drawe  hit  thorgh  a 
streyno?rt- ;  and  whafi  it  hath  wel  boiled,  caste  thereto  ponder  of  ginger  and 
vinegre,  and  seson  hit  vppe  and  seme  it  forth. 

Gelyne  in  broths.  ^  Take  rawe  hennes,  chop  hem,  caste  hem  into  a  potte; 
cast  to  fressh  broth  Wyne,  p^^rcelly,  oynons  myced,  powder  of  peper,  clowes, 
Maces,  safFrou^J,  and  salt ;  then  stepe  brede  with  vinegre  and  Jjs  same  broth, 
and  draw  hit  thorgh  a  streynowr,  and  cast  it  thereto,  and  lete  boyle  ynogh ; 
And  caste  thereto  ponder  ginger,  and  sesone  hit  vp,  &  serue  forth. 

Rabette  rested.  ^  Take  a  Rabette,  and  sle  him,  And  drawe  him.  And  lete 
his  hede  be  oii),  as  a  Conyng  ;  roste  him  as  a  Conyng,  And  serue  him  forth. 

Kede  rested.  ^  Take  a  kydde,  and  slytte  the  skyn  in  ]>e  throte,  And  seke 
the  veyne,  and  kut  him,  and  lete  him  blede  to  deth ;  and  fle  him.  And  larde 
him,  And  trusse  his  legges  in  fe  sides,  and  roste  him,  And  reyse  the  shuldres 
and  legges,  and  sauce  hit  with  vinegre  and  salte. 

Venyso^m  rested.  ^  Take  faire  ffelettes  of  venesotm,  and  pike  awey  the 
skyii  and  J7e  bone,  and  prtrboile  hem,  and  roste  hem  on  a  spitte ;  And  sauce 
there-to.  And  seme  hit  forth. 

Vele  rested.  ^  Take  faire  brestes  of  vele.  And  parboyle  hem,  And  larde 
hem,  And  'roste  hem,  And  then  serue  hem  forth. 

Chik  farsed.  ^  Take  a  faire  chek,  and  skald  him,  and  breke  the  skyii  (as 
sone  as  he  is  scalded)  in  the  necke  behinde,  and  blowe  him,  And  cast  him  in 
fiiiri?  water,  and  wassh  him ;  and  ]ien  kutte  of  ]ie  hede  and  nek,  and  lete  he 
ffete  be  on  al  hole,  and  di'aw  him  clene ;  and  ]>en  pike  faire  p«rcelly,  and 
parboile  hit ;  And  J^en  take  hard  yolkes  of  eyron,  and  hewe  hem  and  ]>e 
prtrcelly  togidre,  and  fressh  grece,  and  caste  there-to  ponder  of  ginger,  peper, 
a  litel  saffron  and  salt.  And  put  al  in- to  ]>e  Chike,  and  put  hit  on  a  Spitte  • 
And  thenne  late  him  roste,  and  serue  forth. 

Chike  endered.  ^  Take  a  chike,  and  drawe  him,  and  roste  him,  And  lete 
the  fete  be  on,  and  take  awey  the  hede  ;  then  make  batur  of  yolkes  of 
eyroii  and  floure,  and  caste  there-to  ponder  of  ginger,  and  peper,  saffron  and 
salt,  and  pouder  hit  faire  til  hit  be  rested  ynogh. 

Gece  er  Capon  farced.  ^  Take  p^rciH,  Swynes  grece,  or  suet  of  shepe,  and 
pffrboyle  hem  in  faire  water  and  fressh  boyling  broth ;  And  j^efi  take  yolkes 
of  eyeroii  hard  y-sodde,  and  hew  hem  smale,  with  the  herbes  and  the  salte  ; 
and  caste  thereto  pouder  of  Ginger,  Peper,  CaneH,  and  salte,  and  Grapes  in 
tyme  of  yere  ;  And  in  oj^er  tyme,  take  oynons,  and  boile  hem  ;  and  whan  they 

1  fol.  11. 


82  COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    PORK    LOZENGES,    TRIPE. 

ben  yboiled  ynowe  with  j^e  herbes  and  with  ]>e  suet,  al  |'es  togidre,  jjcii  put 
aH;  in  ]>e  goos,  or  in  j)e  Capon;  And  then  late  him  roste  ynogh. 

Pigge  ffarced.  *[  Take  rawe  egges,  and  drawe  hem  j^orgh  a  streyno2<r,  And 
J»en  grate  faire  brede ;  And  take  saffron,  salt,  pouder  ginger,  And  suet  of 
Shepe,  And  do  medle  al  togidre  into  a  faire  vesseH:,  and  put  hit  in  Jie  pigge 
wombe  Whan  he  is  oil  ]>e  brocche,  And  Jien  sowe  the  hole  togidre  ;  or  take 
a  prik,  and  prik  him  togidur.  And  lete  him  roste. 

^  ffelettes  of  Porke  endored.  ^  Take  ffelettes  of  porke,  and  roste  hem  faire, 
And  endore  hem  with  ]^e  same  batur  as  Jjou  dofist  a  cheke  as  he  turnetli 
aboute  the  spitte,  And  seme  hbn  forth. 

ffelettes  in  galentyne.  ^  Take  faire  porke  of  ]?e  fore  quarter,  and  take  of 
the  skyii,  and  put  fe  pork  on  a  faire  spitte,  and  roste  it  half  ynogh  ;  and  take 
hit  of,  and  smyte  hit  in  peces,  and  east  hit  in  a  faire  potte  ;  and  l^en  take 
oynons,  and  shred  and  pul  hem,  not  to  smaH,  and  fry  hem  in  a  pan  with  faire 
grece.  And  then  caste  hem  to  J»e  porke  into  ]>e  potte ;  And  then  take  good 
broth  of  beef  or  Motton,  and  cast  thereto,  and  set  hit  on  ]>g  fire,  and  caste 
to  pouder  of  Peper,  Canel,  Cloues  &  Maces,  and  lete  boile  wel  togidur ; 
and  j^eii  take  faire  brede  and  vinegre,  and  stepe  the  brede  with  a  lituH  of  J^e 
same  broth,  and  streyne  hit  thorgh  a  streynoj<r,  and  blode  with  aH ;  or  elles 
take  Saundres  and  coloe^r  hit  therewith,  and  late  hem  boile  togidur,  and 
cast  thereto  Saffron  and  salt,  and  s^rue  hit  forth. 

Losinges  de  chare.  ^  Take  faire  buttes  of  porke,  and  hewe  hem,  and 
grynde  hem,  and  caste  there-to  yolkes  of  eyrefi  rawe,  and  take  it  vppe  into 
a  faire  vesseH ;  and  take  reysons  of  Corance,  and  myced  dates,  and  pouder 
ginger,  peper,  saffron,  and  sugur,  and  medle  al  this  to-gidre  ;  and  make  faire 
paast  of  sug2<r,  saffron,  and  salte,  and  temper  therein ;  And  make  thereof  ij . 
faire  cakes,  and  ley  the  stuff  therein  al  abrode  on  ]>e  cakes  aH  flatte.  And 
fen  take  ano]7er  Cake,  and  ley  him  al  abrode  thereon,  and  J^eil  kutte  ])e  Cakes 
thorgh  with  a  knyfe,  in  maner  of  losinges  ;  And  then  make  faire  bater  of  rawe 
yolkes  of  eroii,  sugur  and  salt,  and  close  Jie  sides  of  ]>e  losinges  therewith, 
and  theii  fry  hem  in  fressh  grece  ynow,  And  so  serue  hem  forthe. 

Tripe  de  Mutton.  ^  Take  a  panche  of  a  shepe,  and  make  it  clene,  and 
caste  hit  in  a  potte  '  of  boyling  water,  and  skyme  hit  clene,  and  gader  al  awey 
the  grece,  and  lete  hem  boile  til  )7ei  be  al  tendur ;  then  take  hem  vppe  on  a 
faire  horde,  and  kutte  hem  in  smale  peces  of  ij  peny  brede,  and  caste  hem  jh 
an  ertheu  potte  with  stronge  broth  of  bef  or  Mutton;  take  ffoyles  of  prtrcelly, 
1  fol.  115.  1  fol.  12. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    FRIED    BREAD,    ETC.  83 

and  hewe  hem  smaH,  and  cast  hem  to,  And  lete  hoyle  togidre  til  they  ben 
tendur/  And  ]>en  take  ponder  of  ginger,  and  a  qnantite  of  vergeoiis,  and  take 
saffron  and  salt  and  caste  there-to,  and  lete  hem  boile  togidre  til  j^ey  be  ynogh. 

Allowes  de  Mutton.  ^  Take  faire  Mutton  of  the  Buttes,  and  kutte  hit  in 
])e  maner  of  stekes ;  And  ]>en  take  faire  rawe  parcelly,  and  oynons  shred 
smale,  yolkes  of  eron  sodden  hard,  and  mary  or  suet ;  hewe  all  ]>es  smale 
togidre,  and  then  caste  thereto  pouder  of  ginger,  and  saffron,  and  stere  hem 
togidre  with  thi  honde,  and  ley  hem  vppe-ofi  j^e  stekes  al  abrode ;  and  cast 
there-to  salt,  and  rolle  hem  togidre,  and  put  hem  on  a  spitte,  and  roste  hem 
till  j'ei  be  ynogli. 

Browne  fryes.^  %  Take  browne  brede,  and  kut  hit  thyn ;  And  then  take 
yolkes  of  eyren,  and  soih  with^  of  the  white;  and  take  meyned  fioure,  and 
drawe  the  eiren  and  the  floure  thorgh  a  streyno«r ;  and  take  sugur  a  gode 
qM«ntite,  and  a  litul  saffron  and  salt,  And  cast  thereto :  and  take  a  faire 
panne  with  fressli  grece ;  And  whan  ])e  grece  is  bote,  take  downe  and  putte  it 
in  j^e  batur,  and  turne  hit  wel  therein,  and  ])en  put  hit  in  ]>e  pan  with  the 
grece,  And  lete  hem  fry  togidre  a  lituH  while ;  And  then  take  hem  vpp,  and 
caste  sugur  thereon,  and  so  seme  hit  bote. 

Payn  purdeuz.  ^  Take  faire  yolkes  of  eyrefi,  and  try  hem  fro  the  white , 
and  drawe  hem  j^orgh  a  streyno2U';  and  then  take  salte,  and  caste  thereto; 
And  then  take  manged  brede ^  or  payiiman,  and  kutte  hit  in  leches;  and  ]>en 
take  faire  buttur,  and  clarefy  hit,  or  elles  take  fressli  grece  and  put  hit  yn)  *  a 
faire  pan,  and  make  hit  bote ;  And  then  wete  fe  brede  weH  there  in  l^e  yolkes 
of  eyrefi,  and  then  ley  hit  oii  the  batur  in  J^e  pan,  whan  J;e  buttur  is  al  bote ; 
And  then  whan  hit  is  fried  ynowe,  take  sugur  ynowe,  and  caste  there-to 
whan  hit  is  in  jie  dissh,  And  so  seme  hit  forth. 

Perre.  ^f  Take  grene  pesyfi,  and  boile  hem  in  a  potte ;  And  whan  they  beii 
y-broke,  drawe  the  broth  a  good  qiiantite  ]7orgh  a  streynowr  into  a  potte.  And 
sitte  hit  on  the  fire  ;  and  take  oynons  and  pffrcelly,  and  hewe  hem  smaH 
togidre.  And  caste  hem  thereto ;  And  take  pouder  of  CaneH  and  peper,  and 
caste  thereto,  and  lete  boile ;  And  take  vynegwr  and  pouder  of  ginger,  and 
caste  thereto  ;  And  then  take  Saffron  and  salte,  a  lituli  quantite,  and  caste 
thereto  ;  And  take  faire  peces  of  paynmain,  or  elles  of  such  tendur  brede,  and 
kutte  hit  jn  fere  mosselles,  and  caste  there-to;  And  j^eii  serue  hit  so  f'/rth. 

Malasade.^  •[  Take  yolkes  and  white  [of]  eiren  togidre,  And  drawe  hem 

'  The  recipe  on  p.  43  makes  Braicn  of  this  dish. 

^  Some  of  the  white  therewith.     See  p.  43,  Eecipe  xlv. 

^  Douce  MS.  maynche  brede.     Manchet. 

*  fol.  I2b.  5  So  in  Douce  MS. ;  Malafade  in  Harl. 


84  COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    HAGAS    DE    ALMONDES. 

thorgh  a  streynoui-e  ;  and  ])0T\  take  a  litul  butter,  and  caste  hit  in  a  f aire  frying 
panne ;  And  whan  the  butter  is  bote,  take  ]ie  eiren  that  ben  y-drawe,  and  caste 
there-to.  And  J!eh  take  a  Saucer,  and  gadur  the  eyreii  togidre  in  the  panne, 
in  the  brede  of  a  pewtre  dissh ;  And  then  couche  faire  [pecys]^  of  brede 
downward  in  j^e  pail ;  and  take  it  vp  cute  of  the  pan.  And  caste  faire 
white  Sugur  thereto,  and  Si?rue  it  forth.  And  to^  euerj  malesade,  take  the 
mowutayne^  of  xij.  eyrefl  And  mo. 

Blaunde  sorre.  ^  Take  almondes,  and  blanche  hem,  and  stampe  hem  in  a 
mort^'r,  and  temper  hem  with  fressh  lene  broth  of  a  Capon,  or  beef,  and  wyne  ; 
And  if  hit  be  in  lenton  or  in  a  fissh  day,  take  faire  broth  of  fressh  fissh  and 
wyne,  And  boyle  hem  to-gidre  a  good  while,  and  take  hit  vppe  in  a  faire 
lynnen  cloth  that  is  clene  wasshen,  and  ])e  water  y-Wronge  oute  there-of ; 
And  drawe  vnder  the  cloth,  with  a  ladeH,  al  the  water  that  ye  may,  even  as 
ye  *  make  colde  creme  ;  and  then  take  it  oute  of  the  clothe,  and  cast  hit  in  a 
faire  potte,  and  lete  boile  ;  and  then  take  brawne  of  a  capon  and  tese  hit  smaH, 
and  bray  hit  in  a  morter/  (or  elles  in  a  fissh  day,  take  a  codlyng  or  a  haddok), 
and  temper  hit  with  almond  melke,  and  cast  sugur  ynogh  thereto  ;  and  then 
caste  hit  in  the  potte,  And  lete  hit  boile  togidur  a  goode  while  ;  and  ]>en  take 
hit  oute  of  the  potte  al  bote,  and  dresse  hit  into  a  dissh  as  ye  doeth  a  colde 
creme  ;  And  sette  ther-on  rede  Anneys  in  confite,  and  serue  hit  forth ;  or  elles 
take  faire  almondes  yblanched,  &  set  ]7eron/ 

Hagas  de  almondes.  ^  Take  faire  yolkes  of  eyren,  and  the  White,  and 
drawe  hem  thorgh  a  Streyno?<r,  and  take  faire  parcelly,  and  parboyle  hit  in  a 
potte,  &  pflrboylingge  broj'e;  And  theil  take  yolkes  of  yrefi,  sodde  hard,  and 
bewe  the  yolkes  and  the  pffrcely  small  togidre;  And  [take]^  sugur,  ponder  of 
Gynger,  and  salte,  &  cast  to  yolkes  and  pflrcelly ;  And  take  mary,  and  put  hit 
in  a  streynowr.  And  lete  hong^  yu  to  J'e  boy  ling  potte,  and  parboile  ;  and  take 
hit  vppe,  and  lette  hit  kele,  And  kutte  hit  then  in  smale  peces  ;  And  then  take 
the  drawen  eyren,  and  putte  hem  in  a  pan  al  a-brode,  (And  vnneth  eny  grece 
in  Jje  pan,)  and  couche  the  yolkes  and  the  p«rcelly  there-oil  in  ]>e  pan.  And 
then  couche  the  peces  of  ]>e  mary  thereon ;  And  then  folde  vp  J7e  kake  byneth 
euery  corner,  to  eche  corner  foure  square  al  flatte,  And  turne  hit  on  the  pan ; 
And  lete  hit  lye  awhile,  And  then  take  it  vp,  and  serue  hit  forth. 

Hanoney.  ^  Take   eyren,  and   drawe   the    yolkes   and   white   thorgh   a 

1  Added  from  Douce  MS.  :  Harl.  MS.  reads /(are  of  a  brede. 

-  MS.  do.     MS.  lias  malesade  here,  but  Malafade  iu  the  liending.        ^  amount,  number. 

*  fol.  13.  s  ^tijg^  iYojj^  V)Q\XQ,Q  MS.  «  Douce  MS.  :  Harl.  MS.  hold. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    BLAMANGER,    BUKNADE.  85 

streyrLO?<r ;  And  take  oynons,  And  Slirede  hem  smaH  ;  And  take  faire  butter  or 
grace,  and  vnnetli  ouere-couer  the  pan  therewitli ;  And  fry  the  oynons  togidre ; 
then  late  hem  fry  to-gidre  a  lite  while  ;  And  take  hem  vpp^,  And  serue  hem 
forthe  so,  al  to-broke  yil  a  dissh. 

Blamanger.  ^  Take  faire  Almondes,  and  blanche  hem,  And  grynde  hem 
with  sugoMr  ^  water  into  faire  mylke ;  and  take  ryse,  and  seth.  And  whan 
they  beth  wel  y-sodde,  take  hem  vppe,  and  caste  hem  to  the  almondes  mylke, 
and  lete  hem  boile  togidre  til  thei  be  thikk  ;  And  then  take  the  brawne  of  a 
Capon,  and  tese  hit  smaH,  And  caste  ther<;to ;  and  then  take  Sugur  and  salt, 
and  caste  thereto,  and  serue  hit  forth  in  manor  of  mortrewes. 

Buknade.  ^  Take  veel,  keed,  or  heil,  and  boyle  hem  in  faire  water  or  ellcs 
in  good  fressh  broth,  and  smyte  hem  in  peces,  and  pike  hem  clene  ;  And  drawe 
the  same  broth  thorgh  a  streyno?<r,  And  cast  there-to  pfflrcelly,  Isoppe,  Sauge, 
ITaces  and  clowes,  And  lete  boyle  til  ])e  flessh  be  ynogh ;  and  j^en  set  hit  fro 
the  fire,  and  aley  hit  vp  with  rawe  yolkes  of  eyreii,  and  caste  thereto  pouder 
ginger,  and  vergeous,  &  a  litel  saffron  and  salte,  and  cesoii  hit  vppe  and  serue 
it  forth. 

Auter  maner  buknade.  %  Take  rawe  Almondes,  and  blanche  hem,  and 
grynde  hem,  and  draw  hem  thorgh  a  streyno<<r  with  fressh  broth  and  wync 
into  good  stiff  mylke ;  And  theii  take  veel,  kede,  or  hcil,  and  -parhoile  hem 
in  fressh  broth,  and  pike  hem  clcne,  and  cast  him  thereto  ;  take  Clowes, 
maces,  and  herbes,  and  lete  hem  boile  ynowe ;  And  theil  caste  a  lituH  Sugur, 
pouder  ginger,  and  salt,  and  serue  him  forth. 

Brest  de  mottofi  in  sauce.  ^  Take  faire  brestes  of  Mutton  rested,  and 
chopp  hem  ;  And  then  take  Vergeous,  and  chaaf  hit  in  a  VesseH  ouer  the  fire, 
and  caste  there-to  powder  ginger ;  and  then  caste  the  chopped  brest  in  a  dissh, 
And  caste  the  sauce  al  bote  there-ofi,  And  serue  hit  forth. 

Risshewes  de  Mary.  ^  Take  faire  floure,  and  rawe  yolkes  of  eyren,  sugur, 
salt,  powder  ginger,  and  saffron,  and  make  faire  Cakes.  And  then  take  Mary, 
Sugur,  powder  ginger,  and  ley  hit  on  the  kake,  and  folde  him  togidre ;  And 
then  kutte  hit  in  maner  of  risshewes,  And  fry  hit  in  fressh  grece.  And  then 
serue  hit  forth. 

Lethe  ^  lory.  ^  Take  mylke,  and  caste  it  in  a  potte.  And  caste  there-to  salt 

and  saffron ;  and  J^en  take  and  hewe  faire  buttes  of  Calvis  or  porke  al  smalle 

and  caste  thereto.    And  take  the  white  and  yolkes  of  eyreil,  And  drawe  hem 

thorgh  a  streynowr  ;   And  whaii  the  lico?<r  is  at  j'c  boyling,  caste  there-to  the 

1  fol.  13*.  -  fol.  14.  ^Lait, 


86  COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    TANSEY,    EROYSE,    GELY. 

eyrefi,  And  a  lituH;  Ale,  And  ^tyrre  till  hit  crudde ;  And  if  thou  wilt  haue  hit 
farced,  take  mylke,  and  make  hit  scalding  hote,  And  cast  there-to  rawe  yolkes 
of  eyreii,  sugur,  powder  ginger,  Peper,  clowes,  and  maces,  And  lete  hit  not 
fully  boyle ;  And  theii  take  a  faire  lynnen  clothe,  and  presse  the  cruddes 
there-on,  and  then  leche  it ;  And  ley  ])e  leches  .ij.  or  iij.  in  a  dissh.  And  cast 
saffron  ther<?-on  in  the  dissh,  And  so  senie  hit  forth  al  hote. 

Tansey.  ^  Take  faire  Tansey,  and  grinde  it  in  a  mortcr ;  And  take  eyreii, 
yolkes  and  white,  And  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  streynom-,  and  streyne  also  }>e 
luse  of  ]>e  Tansey  thorgh  a  streyno?<r ;  and  medle  the  egges  and  the  luse 
togidre ;  And  take  faire  grece,  and  cast  hit  in  a  pan,  and  sette  ouer  J^e  fyre  til 
hit  mylte  ;  and  caste  ^e  stuffe  thcreoii,  and  gader  hit  togidre  with,  a  sawcer  or 
a  dissh,  as  ]7ou  wilt  haue  hit  more  or  lasse ;  And  turne  hit  in  j^e  panne  onys 
or  twies,  And  so  seme  it  forth  hote,  yleched. 

Froyse.  ^  Take  egges,  and  drawe  the  yolkes  and  the  white  thorgh  a 
Streyno?/r ;  And  thefi  take  faire  beef  or  veel,  and  seth  hit  til  hit  be  ynogh  ;  and 
)7eii  hewe  hit  colde  or  hote,  al  smaH,  And  medle  the  rawe  beef  or  veel  and 
the  egges  togidre,  and  caste  therc-to  saffroii,  salt,  And  powder  of  peper,  And 
medle  al  togidre.  And  theii  take  a  fryng  pan,  and  sette  ouer  the  fire,  and 
caste  there-in  fressh  grece,  and  make  hit  hote  ;  And  theii  cast  the  stuff  there-ofi 
and  stirre  hit  well  in  the  paii  till  hit  come  togidre ;  And  whaii  hit  is  com  weH 
togidre,  caste  there-on  in  j^e  paii  a  ^  dissh,  and  presse  hit  togidre,  And  turne 
hit,  if  hit  be  nede,  fore  clevyng  in  the  turnyng,  caste  into  ]>c  paii  more  grece, 
but  twrne  hit  ones  or  ij  ;  ^  And  take  hit  vppe  fro  the  fire.  And  leche  it  in  faire 
peces,  &  serue  forth. 

Gely.  ^  Take  Calucs  fete,  and  scalde  hem  faire,  and  ley  hem  in  faire  water, 
and  late  hem  wex  white  ;  Also  take  ho^os  of  fele,^  and  ley  hem  in  faire  water 
fore  to  soke  outc  J^e  blode ;  And  ]?eii  take  hem  oute  of  ]>e  water,  and  ley  hem 
in  a  faire  lynnen  clothe,  and  lete  the  water  reii  oute ;  And  jieh  take  a  faire 
scoured  potte,  and  put  al  thes  hojos  and  calues  fete  ])erm  ;  And  J^eii  take  good 
white  wyii,  that  woH  hold  colloure,  or  elles  fyne  claret  wyne,  and  caste  there- 
to a  porcion),  and  none  oj^er  licoure,  that  the  flessh  be  ouer-wose*  with  al ;  and 
sette  hit  ouer  the  fire,  and  boile  hit,  and  skem  hit  clene.  Whari  hit  is  boylled 
te?2der  ynowe,  take  vppe  the  flessh  in  a  faire  bolle.  And  save  wel  ]>e  licoure ; 
and  loke  that  Jpou  have  faire  sides  of  pigges,  And  faire  smale  chekynes 
scalded,  and  drawe  hem,  ([and  the]  legges  and  [the  fete]  on),'^  and  wassh 

1  fol.  lib.  2  t-^yies^  twice.  ^  Douce  MS.  ;  hovgliijS  of  veil. 

*  Douce  MS.  reads,  nere  wese  u'lih-alle. 

s  Thus  Douce  MS.:  Harl.  MS.  hem  legges  and  sette  on. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    GUISSELL,    STEWED    PEARS.         87 

faire,  and  caste  hem  in  j^e  same  first  broth,  And  set  hit  ayeii  oner  the  fire, 
and  skym  hit  clene,  and  lete  a  man  euere-more  kepe  hit,  and  blow  of  j^e 
grauey  ;  And  in  case  that  j^e  lico^/r  waste  awey,  cast  more  of  the  same  wyne 
^'ere-to  ;  And  put  ])i  honde  there-to.  And,  if  thi  honde  be  cla?«my.  Hit  is  a 
signe  ]7at  it  is  gode  ;  and  lete  not  J^e  flessh  be  so  moche  ysod  that  hit  may  here 
no  kuttyng ;  And  then  take  hit  vppe,  and  ley  hit  on  a  faire  clothe,  and  set 
cute  the  licoure  fro  the  fire ;  And  put  a  fewe  coles  vnder  ]ie  vesseH  J^at  ]>e 
lycouri?  is  yn ;  and  take  salt,  pouder  of  peper,  and  good  quantite  of  saffron, 
(that  hit  haue  faire  Ambur  colo?<r,)  and  a  good  quantite  of  vinegre  ;  And 
loke  that  hit  be  sauery  of  the  salt  and  of  the  vinegre,  &  faire  of  colo«r  of 
saffron ;  And  put  hit  in  a  faire  lyneii  clothe,  And  sette  ynder-neth  a  faire 
dissh,  and  late  hit  refi  thorgh  the  cloth  so  oft  j^at  hit  ren  clene  ^;  And  if 
J70U  seest  that  hit  hath  to  lituH  of  the  ^vinegre,  or  salt,  or  saffron,  caste 
thereto  more,  after  thi  discrecion) ;  And  then  kut  faire  sidde  ribbes  of  ]>e 
sides  of  pigges,  and  ley  hem  oil  a  chargeoi^r  or  on  a  dissh,^  And  set  hit  faire 
oii  a  colde  place,  and  powre  ]>e  gely  Jieroii;  And  then  take  faire  blanched 
almondes,  and  caste  anone  thereon  er  hit  kele,  and  foilles  of  tried  pared 
ginger  ;  and  lete  stonde  to  kele. 

[GuisseH^].  *^  Take  faire  capon  broth,  or  of  beef.  And  sette  hit  ouer  the 
fire,  and  caste  ])erto  myced  sauge,  parcelly  and  saffron.  And  lete  boile  ; 
And  streyn  the  white  and  fe  yolke  of  egges  thorgh  a  streynoja',  and  caste 
there-to  faire  grated  brede,  and  medle  hit  togidre  with  thi  honde,  And 
caste  the  stuff  to  the  broth  into  ])e  pan ;  And  stirre  it  faire  and  softe  til  hit 
corae  togidre,  and  crudded  ;  And  ])eh  seme  it  forth  bote. 

Peris  in  Syrippe.  ^  Take  Wardens,  and  cast  hem  in  a  faire  potte.  And 
boile  hem  til  fei  beii  tendre  ;  and  take  hem  vppe,  and  pare  hem  in  ij.  or  in  iij  . 
And  take  powder  of  Caneil,  a  good  quantite,  and  cast  hit  in  good  red  wyne, 
And  cast  sug?<r  thereto,  and  put  hit  in  an  ertheii  potte.  And  lete  boile ;  And 
then  cast  the  peris  thereto,  And  late  hem  boile  togidre  awhile  ;  take  powder 
of  ginger,  And  a  liteH  saffron  to  colloure  hit  with.  And  loke  that  hit  be 
poynante/  And  also  Doucet/ 

Peris  in  compost.  ^  Take  Wyne,  caneH,  And  a  grete  dele  of  white  Sugur, 
And  sette  hit  ouer  the  fire,  And  hete  hit  but  a  lituH,  and  nojt  boyle ;  And 

^  Douce  MS.  clere. 

^  Douce  MS.  adds  [&  pull  the  loynes  of  the  chekyne  iche  from  oth^'re,  and  take  awey  the 
skyn,  and  puUe  hem  [iu]  q?/«rtres,  aud  ley  a  qnniUr  of  a  chikync  and  a  rihbe  of  the  pygge 
to-gedrys  on  a  dissh.] 

3  Taken  from  Douce  MS.  ^  fol.  15. 


88     COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HAUL.    4016.   CHARE    DE    WARDONE,   MAWMENE. 

draTve  hit  tliorgli  a  streyiio?<r ;  And  then  take  ^  faire  dates,  and  y-take  oute 
the  stones,  and  leche  hem  in  faire  gobettes  al  thyfi,  and  cast  there-to ;  And 
theii  take  pere  Wardones,  and  pare  hem,  And  seth  hem,  And  leche  hem  in 
iaire  gobettes,  and  pike  oute  the  core,  and  cast  hem  to  the  Syrypp*  ;  And  take 
a  lituH  Saundres,  and  caste  there-to  in  the  boylyng,  And  loke  that  hit  stonde 
well,  with  Gynger,  Sugur,  And  well  aley  hit  w?'tA  canell,  and  cast  [salt]  ^ 
thereto,  and  lete  boyle ;  And  theii  caste  it  oute  in  a  treyii  ^vesseH,  And  lete 
kele ;  And  theii  pare  clene  rasinges*  of  ginger,  &  temper  he»i  ij.  or  iij.  dales, 
in  wyne,  And  after,  ley  hem  in  clarefied  hony  colde,  aH  a  day  or  a  night ; 
And  ]>en  take  the  rasons^  oute  of  the  hony.  And  caste  hem  to  the  peres  in 
composte  ;  And  theii  seme  hit  forth  with  sirippe,  aH  colde,  And  nought  bote. 

Chare  de  Wardone.  %  Take  peer  Wardens,  and  seth  hem  in  wine  or  water ; 
And  theii  take  hem  vppi?,  and  grinde  hem  in  a  morter,  and  drawe  hem  thorgh 
a  streynoure  with  the  licowr ;  ^  And  put  hem  in  a  potte  with  Sug«<r,  or  ellej 
with  clarefiede  hony  and  caneH  ynowe,  And  lete  hem  boile ;  And  theii  take 
hit  irom  the  fire.  And  lete  kele,  and  caste  there-to  rawe  yolkes  of  eyreii,  til  hit 
be  thik,  and  caste  thereto  powder  of  ginger  ynowe ;  And  serue  hit  forth  in 
maner  of  Ryse.  And  if  hit  be  in  lentoii  tyme,  leve  the  yolkes  of  eyreii.  And 
lete  the  remnawnt  boyle  so  longe,  til  it  be  so  thikk  as  though  hit  were  y- 
tempered  with  yolkes  of  eyreii,  in  maner  as  A  maii  sethej"  charge  de  quyns ; 
And  thefa  serue  hit  forth  m  maner  of  Rys. 

Mawmene.  ^  Take  vernage,  or  oj7er  strenger  wyne  of  the  best  that  a  maii 
may  finde,  and  put  hit  in  a  potte,  and  cast  there-to  a  gode  quantite  of  powder 
Canell,  And  sette  hit  oner  the  fire,  And  yif  hit  a  hete ;  And  theii  wring  oute 
softe  thorgh  a  streyno?^r,  that  Jjc  draff  go  not  oute,  And  put  in  a  faire  potte ; 
take  and  pike  newe  faire  pynes,  And  wassh  hem  clene  in  wyne,  And  caste 
of  hem  a  grete  q«<rtntite  j^ere-to ;  And  take  white  sugur  ynowe,  as  moche  as 
thi  licoz<r  is,  And  cast  there-to ;  and  take  confeccions  or  charge "  de  quyns,  a 
goode  quantite,  and  cast  thereto ;  and  drawe  a  few  saundres  with  stronge 
wyne  thorgh  a  StreynoMr,  and  cast  there  to  ;  And  put  al  in  a  potte ;  And  cast 
there-to  a  good  quantite  of  Clowes,  and  sette  hit  ouer  the  fire,  &  gif  hit  a 
boyling;  And  take  Almondes,'  and  drawe  hem  'with  mighti  wyne  thorgh  a 
streynoMr ;  And  at  the  first  boiling,  ^a-ley  hit  vp,  &  yeve  ®hit  a  boyle ;  and  ^ley 
hit  vp  with  ale,  and  gif  hit  a  boyle,  and  sette  hit  fro  the  fire ;  and  caste 

1  Douce  MS.       2  Douce  MS.      ^  fol.  lob.  MS.  repeats  'vesselk,'  treyne  is  treeu,  wooden. 

^  shavings,  parings.  *  Douce  MS.  iv\th-out  eny  lieour, 

*  ?  MS. ;  for  chare.  "  D.  ami/dons.     ^  fol.  16.    ^-^  D.  omits  from  a-lei/  .  .  .  and. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    EELS,    BALLOK    BROTH.  89 

thereto  tesid  brawne  of  Fesaunte,  p«Hrich,  or  capon,  a  good  quantite,  and 
ceson  hit  vppi?  with  pouder  of  ginger  ynogh,  and  a  lituU  saffron  and  salt ; 
And  if  hit  be  stronge,'  aley  hit  with  vinegre  of  ^  swete  wyn,  and  dresse  hit 
flatte  with  the  bak  of  a  Saucer  or  A  ladeli ;  And  as  thou  dressest  hit  with 
the  saucer  in  vincgr(3^  or  mighty  wyne,  wete  the  saucer  or  ladeli  fore  cleving, 
[and  loke]*  that  hit  haue  sugur  right  ynogh,  And  serve  hit  forth. 

Longe  Wortes  de  Peson^.  ^  Take  grene  pesyfi,  and  wassh  hem  clene,  And 
cast  hem  in  a  potte,  and  boyle  hem  til  they  breke ;  and  then  take  hem  vppe 
fro  the  fire,  and  putte  hem  in  the  broth  in  an  other  vesseH ;  And  lete  hem 
kele ;  And  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  Streynowr  into  a  faire  potte.  And  theii  take 
oynones  in  ij.  or  iij.  peces ;  And  take  hole  wortes,  and  boyle  hem  in  fayre 
water ;  And  then  take  hem  vppe,  And  ley  hem  oil  the  faire  horde,  And  kutte 
hem  in  .iij.  or  in  .iiij.  peces  ;  And  caste  hem  and  the  oynons  into  ])at  potte 
with  the  di-aweii  peseii,  and  late  hem  boile  togidre  til  they  be  aH  tendur, 
And  theii  take  faire  oile  and  fray,  or  ellej  f ressh  broth  of  some  manor  fissh, 
(if  Jiou  maist,  oyle  a  quantite),  ^  And  caste  thereto  saffroii,  and  salt  a  quantite. 
And  lete  hem  boyle  wel  togidre  til  they  befi  ynogh ;  and  stere  hem  weH 
euermore,  And  serue  hem  forthe. 

Elys  in  Sorre.  ^  Take  eles,  and  fie  hem,  and  choppe  hem  in  faire  colpons, 
And  wassh  hem  clene,  and  putte  hem  in  a  faire  potte  ;  and  theii  take  p«rcelly, 
oynons,  and  shrede  togidre  to  the  eles ;  And  then  take  pouder  of  peper,  &  ^ 
broth  of  fissh,  and  set  hit  ouer  the  fire,  and  lete  hem  boyle  togidre ;  And  ]>en 
take  a  lofe  of  brede,  and  alay  the  brede  in  the  j^e  same  broth,  And  drawe  hit 
thorgh  a  streynoi<r ;  And  whaii  the  eles  beil  almoost  y-sodde  ynowe,  caste 
there-to ; '  And  lete  hem  boile  togidre  ;  and  take  hem  yp  fro  ]>e  fire,  and  cast 
yer-to  salte,  vinegre,  And  serue  hit  forth. 

®Ballok  broth.  ^  Take  elys,  and  fie  hem,  and  kutte  hem  in  colpons,  and 
caste  hem  into  a  potte  with  faire  water/  and  then  take  p«rcelly,  and  oynons, 
and  shrede  hem,  not  to  smale  ;  And  take  Clowes,  Maces,  pouder  of  Peper, 
pouder  of  CaneH,  And  a  gode  porciori  of  wyne,  and  cast  thereto,  And  lete 
hem  boyle ;  And  whaii  Jjc  eles  beth  wel  y-boiled,  take  faire  stokfissh,  and  do 

^  Douce  MS.  to  stondyng.  *  Douce  MS.  vernage  or. 

^  Douce  MS.  vernage.  ■*  Added  from  Douce  MS. 

*  Douce  MS.  reads  here:  other  elles  fressb  broth  of  some  maner  of  fressh  fisshe  (yffe  thou 
have  none  oile)  a  quantite. 

^  Douce  MS.  adds :  canelle,  &  clowes  and  maces,  &  cast  ther-to,  and  take  fressh,  betivecn 
&  and  broth. 

'  Douce  MS.  adds  :  and  alay  hit  tber-witA,  &  cast  wyn«  ther-to  and  lete  hem  buille  to- 
gederys  :  &  then  take  hem  vppe  fro  the  fyre  and  cast  ther-to  wyne,  &c.  *  fol.  166. 


90         COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016,  SOPS,    MUSCLES,    MORTREWES. 

a-wey  ]>e  skyn,  and  caste  thereto,  And  lete  boyle.  And  whan  the  eles  ben 
weli  y-boyled,  take  faire  bernie,  and  put  'perto,  And  lete  boyle  awhile;  and 
J^eil  take  Saffron  and  salt,  and  a  litel  viuegre,  and  cast  thereto  ;  And  lete 
s^rue  hit  forthe  fore  gode  potage. 

Soppes  Dorre.  ^  Take  rawe  Almondes,  And  grynde  hem  in  A  morter,  And 
temper  hem  -with  wjh  and  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  streynowr;  And  lete  hem 
boyle,  And  cast  there-to  Saffron,  Sugur,  and  salt ;  And  theii  take  a  paynmam, 
And  kut  him  and  tost  him.  And  wete  him  in  wyne,  And  ley  hem  in  a  dissh, 
and  caste  the  siryppe  thereon,  and  maki?  a  dregge '  of  ponder  ginger,  sug«<r, 
CaneH,  Clowes,  and  maces,  And  cast  thereon ;  And  whan  hit  is  I-Dressed, 
seme  it  forth  fore  a  good  potage. 

Soppes  pci«r  Chamberleyne.  ^  Take  wyne,  CancH,  powder  ginger,  sugur/ 
of  echo  a  porcion  ;  And  cast  aH  in  a  Streyuowr,  And  honge  hit  on  a  pyii,  And 
late  hit  ren  thorgh  a  streynoia*  twies  or  thrics,  til  hit  rcfi  clere ;  And  then 
take  paynmam,  And  kutte  hit  in  a  maner  of  Browes,  And  tost  hit.  And  ley 
hit  in  a  dissli,  and  caste  blanche  ponder  there-oil  ynogli  ;  And  theii  cast  the 
same  licotir  vppoii  ]>e  Soppes,  and  serue  hit  forthe  fore  a  good  potage. 

Muscules  in  brotli.  ^  Take  Muscules,  And  sith*  hem,  And  pike  hem  oute 
of  the  shell;  And  drawe  the  broth  thorgli  a  streynoMr  into  a  faire  vesseil, 
And  sette  hit  on  the  fire ;  And  then  take  faire  brede,  and  stepe  hit  with  ]>e 
same  ^  broth,  and  draw  hit  thorgh  a  streynoMr,  And  cast  in-to  a  potte  with  j^e 
sewe ;  and  menge  *  oynons,  wyn,  and  poudcr  peper,  and  lete  boyle  ;  &  cast 
there-to  the  Musculis  and  ponder  ginger,  and  saflVon,  and  salte ;  And  theii 
serue  ye  hit  forthe. 

Muscules  in  Shelle.  ^  Take  and  pike  faire  musculis.  And  cast  hem  in  a 
potte ;  and  caste  hem  to,  myced  oynons,  And  a  good  quantite  of  peper  and 
wyne,  And  a  lite  vynegre  ;  And  assone  as  tliei  bigyuncth  to  gape,  take  hem 
from  Ipe  fire,  and  serue  hit  forthe  with  the  same  broth  in  a  dissh  al  bote. 

Mortrewes  of  Pesyn.  %  Take  a  Gurnard,  or  elles  a  Codling,  (the  lyuer  And 
Ipe  Spawne  w«'t/i-in  him),  And  seth  him  ynowe  in  faire  water;  and  pike  oute 
the  bones,  and  grinde  the  fissh  in  a  morter,  and  temper  hit  with  almond 
mylke,  and  caste-to  grated  brede ;  and  J^eii  take  hit  vppe,  and  put  hit  in  a 
faire  potte,  and  lete  boyle  ;  And  caste  thereto  sugur,  SafFeron,  and  salte  ;  and 
serue  hit  in  a  dissh  in  maner  of  mortrewes  of  flessh,  And  caste  powder  of 
Ginger  there- oii. 

Blanche  porrey.  ^  Take  blanche  almondes.  And  grinde  hem,  and  drawe 

1  dredge.    Douce  MS.  dragge.  "seethe,  boil.  ^  i'ol.  17. 

*  Douce  MS.  myuced;  see  next  recipe. 


COOKEKY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    PRENADE,    ALMOND-CREAM.         91 

hem  -with  sugur  water  thorgli  a  streyno?<r  into  a  good  stuff  mylke  into  a 
potte  ;  and  ]>en  take  ^e  white  of  lekes,  and  hew  hem  smaH,  and  grynde  hem 
in  a  Tnorter  witli  brede ;  and  J^eil  cast  al  to  j^e  mylke  into  ]>e  potte,  and  caste 
]>erto  siigur  and  salt,  and  lete  boyle ;  And  setB  feyre  poudrid  eles  in  faire 
water  ynowe,  and  broile  hem  on  a  gredreil ;  and  kut  hem  in  faire  longe  peces, 
and  ley  two  or  thre  in  a  dissh.  togidre  as  ye  do  venesofi  with  ffurmenty, 
And  s^nie  it  forthe. 

CaudeH  ffery.  ^  Take  rawe  yolkes  of  ep-efi  and  trie  hem,  and  bake  hem ; 
and  take  good  wyno,  and  warrae  hit  ouer  the  fire  in  a  potte,  And  cast  there- 
to the  yolkes,  and  stere  hit  weH,  butte  lete  hit  not  boyle  til  hit  thikke ;  ^  and 
then  caste  therc-to  sugur  and  salt,  and  seme  hit  forth  as  mortrewes. 

Prenade.- — Take  wyfi,  and  put  hit  in  a  potte,  and  clarefied  honey, 
sawndres,  pouder  of  peper,  Cauel,  Clowes,  Maces,  Safiroil,  pynes,  myced  dates, 
&  reysons,  And  cast  thereto  a  litiil  vinegre,  and  sette  hit  ouer  the  fire,  and 
lete  hit  boyle ;  and  setli  figges  in  wyn  and  grynde  hem,  and  draw  hem 
thorgh  a  streynowr,  and  cast  thereto,  and  let  boile  al  togidre.  And  J^eii  take 
floure,  saffron,  sugur,  and  faire  water,  and  make  faire  kakes,  and  late  hem  be 
thyii  ynogli ;  And  j^eii  kutte  hem  like  losinges ;  And  ]>en  caste  hem  in  faire 
oyle,  and  fry  hem  a  litul  while ;  And  then  take  hem  vp  ouie  of  the  pan,  and 
caste  hem  to  j<e  wesscH  with  the  sirippe,  altogidre,  in  a  dissh ;  And  therefore 
thi  sirripe  most  be  rennyng  ynow,  and  nojt  to  stiff ;  and  so  seme  it  forth  fore 
a  good  potage,  in  faire  disshes  aH  bote. 

Froyte  de  almondes.^  ^  Take  blak  sugur  and  coldc  water,  and  caste  the 
sugur  and  ])e  water  in  a  potte  ;  and  lete  liera  boile  togidre,  and  salt,  and  skeme 
hem  clene,  and  let  hit  kele  ;  And  j^cu  take  Almoudes,  and  blanche  hem  clene, 
and  stampe  h(!m  in  a  morter  al  smal,  and  drawe  hem  thik  ynowe  thorgh  a 
streyno?/r  with  sugur  water,  into  a  faire  vesseH.  And  if  hit  so  be  j^at  the 
mylke  be  not  swete,  take  white  sugwr  and  cast  thereto  ;  And  serue  hit  forth  in 
manor  of  potage,  And  namly  in  lentoii  tyme. 

Fried  creme  de  almondes.  ^  Take  Almondes,  and  blanche  hem,  and 
wassh  hem  in  faire  water,  and  bray  hem  small  in  a  morter  with  faire  water ; 
And  then  take  hem  and  J^e  water  togidre  som-what  thik,  and  drawe  hem 
I'orgh  a  streynoMr  into  a  faire  potte,  And  set  hem  ouer  the  fire,  and  lete  hem 
boyle  ones;  And  ]>en  take  hem  downe,  and  cast  thereto  Salte,  and  lete  stonde 
a  forlonge  wey  or  .ij.  And  cast  a  lituU  yincgre  ]>erto ;  And  ]>en  cast  hit  on  a 
faire  lynneil  cloth  that  *is  faire  wassh,  and  jje  water  y-wronge  oute  there-of ; 
'  fol.  176.       2  Called  Bnias  in  D.       '  Douce  MS.  Froydelet  dalmaiides.       *  fol.  18. 


92        COOKERY    BOOK    11.    HARL,    4016.    BOILD    CREME,    LETLARDES. 

and  cast  hit  ali  abrode  with  the  laduH,  and  lete  men  hold  the  cloth  al  abrode  ; 
and  ]>tu.  take  a  ladiU,  and  draw  vndur  j^e  cloth,  and  draw  awey  ]>e  water  aH 
that  a  man  may.  And  ])en  gadur  al  ]>e  creme  togidur  in  J^e  clothe ;  And  ]>en 
take  J7e  cloth  with  the  creme,  and  hange  hit  vppon  a  ppl,  and  lete  j^e  water 
droppe  oute  two  or  thre  houres  or  more  ;  And  theii  take  hit  of  ]>e  cloth,  and 
putte  hit  in  a  hoH  of  tre,  And  caste  Sug;<r  ynogh  j^ereto  and  a  litul  salt.  And 
if  hit  wex  to  thik,  take  swete  wyne,  and  temper  hit  with  ale  ;  And  ]>en  take 
reysons  of  corannce,  clene  y-wassh,  and  put  hem  there-in,  that  Ipej  he  not 
seyii;  And  whan  hit  is  dressed  in  maner  of  mortrewes,  take  rede  anneys  in 
confite,  or  ellcs  levis  of  Burage,^  and  set  jiere-on  in  a  dissh. 

Creme  boiled.  ^  Take  mylke,  and  boile  hit ;  And  J»en  take  yolkes  of  eyreii, 
and  try  hem  fro  the  white,  and  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  streynoMr,  and  cast  hem 
into  ]>e  mylke ;  and  then  sette  hit  on  j^e  fire,  and  hete  hit  hote,  and  lete  not 
boyle ;  and  stirre  it  wel  til  hit  be  som-what  thik ;  And  caste  thereto  sugur 
and  salte ;  and  kut  ]>en  fairc  paynmam  soppes,  and  caste  the  soppes  there-oil, 
And  s^;iie  it  in  manf/-  of  potage. 

Letlardes.  ^  Take  mylke  scalding  hote ;  And  take  eyrefi,  the  yolkes  and 
the  white,  and  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  streyuowr,  and  caste  to  ]>c  mylke ;  And 
'pen  drawe  ]>e  iuce  of  herbes,  which  that  Jiou  wiH,  so  ]?at  j^ey  beii  goode,  and 
drawe  hem  thorgh  a  stre}Tio?<r.  And  whan  the  mylke  bigynneth  to  crudde, 
caste  ]>e  luce  thereto,  if  j'ou  wilt  haue  it  grene ;  And  if  ]iou  wilt  haue  it  rede, 
take  Saundres,  and  cast  to  ]>e  mylke  whaii  it  croddeth,  and  leue  J^e  herbes  ; 
And  if  ]>ou  wilt  haue  hit  yelowe,  take  Saffron,  and  caste  to  j^e  mylke  whaii 
hit  cruddeth,  and  leve  ]>e  Saundres ;  And  if  Jiou  wilt  haue  it  of  al  J^es  colowrs, 
take  a  potte  with  mylke  &  luse  of  herbes,  and  anoper  potte  with  mylke 
and  saffron ;  And  anoper  ^  potte  with  mylke  and  saundres,  and  put  hem  al  in 
a  lynnen  cloj^e,  and  presse  hem  al  togidur ;  And  if  pon  wilt  haue  it  of  one 
colowr,  take  but  one  cloth,'  and  streyne  it  in  a  cloth  in  ]>e  same  maner,  and 
bete  oil  ]>e  clothe  with  a  ladeH  or  a  Skymo?<r,  to  make  sad  or*  flatte ;  and 
leche  it  faire  with  a  knyfe,  and  fry  the  leches  in  a  paii  with  a  lituH  fressh 
grece ;  And  take  a  lituH,  and  put  hit  in  a  dissh,  and  serue  it  forth. 

Leche  lumbarde.  ^  Take  Dates,  and  do  awey  ]>e  stones ;  and  seth  hem  in 
swete  wyne  ;  and  take  hem  vppe,  and  grinde  hem  in  a  morter,  and  drawe  hem 
]7orgh  a  streyno?<r  with  a  lituH  swete  wyne  and  sugur ;  and  caste  hem  in  a 
potte,  and  lete  boyle  til  it  be  stiff;  and  pen  take  hem  vppe,  and  ley  hem  vp 
apofi  a  horde ;  and  then  take  pouder  ginger,  CaneH,  and  wyfii,  and  melle  al 
1  D.  adds  Jlowres.        2  f(ji_  jgA.        ^  Douce  MS.  of  these.        •*  Douce  MS.  and. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    CRYSPES,    POTEROUS.  93 

togidre  in  thi  honde,  and  make  it  so  stiff  that  hit  woH  be  leclied ;  And  if 
hit  be  not  stiff  ynowe,  take  hard  yolkes  of  eyreil  and  creme  thereon,  or  elles 
grated  brede,  and  make  it  thik  yuogh ;  take  Clarey,  and  caste  thereto  in 
maner  of  sirippe,  whan  J'ou  shaH  serue  hit  forthe. 

Anter  leche  lumbard.  ^  Take  faire  hony,  and  clarefy  it  in  ]>e  fire  til  hit  ^ 
be  stiff  ynowe  ;  and  then  take  hit  vppe  and  ley  hit  on  a  borde  ;  and  take  faire 
grated  brede  and  ponder  of  peper,  and  meli  al  togidre  with  thi  honde,  til  hit 
be  so  stiff  that  hit  wol  be  leched;  and  leche  hit.  And  then  take  wyne, 
ponder  of  Gjnger,  CaneH,  and  a  litel  clarefied  hony,  and  lete  reii  thorgh  a 
streynoMr,  and  cast  J^e  sirip  there- on,  whan  that  thou  shaH  serue  hit  in  stede 
of  Clarre. 

Cryspes.  ^  Take  white  of  eyren,  Milke,  and  fyne  floure,  and  bete  hit 
togidre,  and  drawe  hit  thorgh  a  streyno?a',  so  that  hit  be  rennyng,  and  noght 
to  stiff;  and  caste  there- to  sugur  and  salt.  And  tlien  take  a  chaffur  ful  of 
fressh  grece  boy  ling;  and  J-en  put  thi  honde  in  the  batur  ^and  lete  the  hater 
refi  thorgh  thi  fingers  into  ])e  chaffur ;  And  whan  it  is  ren  togidre  in  the 
chaffre,  and  is  ynowe,  take  a  Skymowr,  and  take  hit  oute  of  the  chaffur,  and 
putte  oute  al  the  grece,  And  lete  ren  ;  And  putte  hit  in  a  faire  dissh,  and  cast 
sngur  thereon  ynow,  and  serue  it  forth. 

Poterous.^  ^  Take  a  shoueH  of  yren,  and  hete  him  brennyng  bote  in  ]>e  fire  ; 
and  yen  take  him  oute  of  the  fire,  and  fil  him  fuH  of  salt ;  And  then  make  a 
coffyu),  and  putte  in  the  salt  al  holowe,  j^e  shappe  of  a  treyii  dissh ;  and  sette 
]>e  pan  and  J-e  salt  oner  the  fire  ayen,  til  j^e  salt  be  brewnyng  bote  ;  and  then 
cast  the  white  and  J^e  yolkes  of  rawe  eyreii  in-to  Jje  hole  of  salt,  and  lete 
stonde  in  J^e  fire  til  hit  be  half  hard ;  And  then  put  a  dissh  half  of  salt ;  And 
]>eT\  take  a  dressing  knyfe,  and  put  vnder  j^e  salt  ^  and  jte  pan,  and  heve  hit 
vppe  fro  the  fire,  that  j^e  coffjn  with  the  eyreii  breke  not ;  And  ]}en  sette  hit 
in  ])e  dissh  with  the  salt,  and  serue  it  forth. 

Risshewes.  %  Take  figges,  and  grinde  hem  ali  rawe  in  a  morter,  and  cast 
a  lituH  fraied  oyle  there-to ;  And  Jiefi  take  hem  vppe  yn  a  vesseH,  and  caste 
there-to  pynes,  reysyns  of  coraiice,  myced  dates,  sugwr,  Saffron,  ponder  ginger, 
and  salt :  And  ]>en  make  Cakes  of  floure,  Sugwr,  salt,  and  rolle  ]>e  stuff  in  thi 
honde,  and  couche  it  in  j>e  Cakes,  and  folde  hem  togidur  as  risshewes.  And 
fry  hem  in  oyle,  and  serue  hem  forth. 

^  Douce  MS.  adds  after  hit :  '  wex  hard :  &  take  hard  yolkes  of  eyrene  &  cryme  hem  a 
grett  quawtite  ther-to,  till  it,'  &c.  «  fol.  19.  ^  jjarl.  MS.  Poterons. 

*  MS.  repeats  '  And  then  take  a  dressing  knyfe,  and  putte  vnder  the  salt.' 


94         COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    TAYLOURS,    GYNGAL"TREY. 

Potage  de  egges}  ^  Take  faire  water  and  cast  in  a  faire  frying  pan,  or  ellej 
in  an  ofer  vesseH,  til  hit  boyle,  and  skeme  it  weli  ;  And  then  breke  faire  rawe 
egges,  and  caste  hem  in  ]?e  water,  And  lete  ]>e  water  stonde  stil  ouer  jie  fire, 
and  lete  the  egges  boyle  harder  or  nessher  as  ]>ou.  wilt. 

Tayl02<rs.  'jj  Take  almondes,  and  grynde  hem  raw  in  a  raorter,  and  temper 
hit  -with  wyne  and  a  litul  water;  And  drawe  hit  j^orgh  a  streyno?<r  into  a 
goode  stiff  mylke  into  a  potte  ;  and  caste  thereto  reysons  of  coraii??ce,  and  grete 
reysons,  myced  Dates,  Clowes,  Maces,  Ponder  of  Pepi?r,  Canel,  saffron  a  good 
quantite,  and  salt ;  and  sette  hem  ouere  the  fire.  And  lete  al  boyle  togidre 
awhile ;  And  alay  hit  vp  with  floure  of  Ryse,  or  elles  grated  brede,  and  cast 
there-to  sugur  and  salt.  And  seme  hit  forth  in  maner  of  mortrewes,  and  caste 
there-on  ponder  ginger  in  J^e  dissh. 

Malmens  bastard.  ^  Take  a  poteH:  of  clarefied  hony,  and  a  ponnde  of 
pynes,^and  I.  pounde  of  Eeysons  of  coraunce,  Saundres,  ponder  caneH,  And  ij. 
galons  of  wyne  or  ale,  and  ponder  pep^r,  and  cast  al  in  a  potte,  And  skeme 
hit  clene  ;  And  ]>en  take  iij.  ii.  pounde*  Almondes,^  and  stepe  to-gidre,  And 
drawe  hem  ]7orgh  a  streyno2<r;  And  whan  the  potte  boyleth,  cast  j^e  licot^r  to, 
&  aley  hit  vp  al  stonding;  And  ]>en  take  ponder  ginger,  salt  m^  saffron),  and 
cesoil  hit  vppi?,  and  serue  hit  forth  in  a  dissh  al  bote,  and  salt;  And  cast 
ponder  ginger  thereon)  in  ]>e  dissh,  and  seme  it  forth. 

Gyngautrey.'  ^  Take  paunches  and  lyuers  of  a  codlyng,  or  haddok,  or  elles 
kelyng,  and  seth  hem  in  faire  water ;  And  take  hem  vppe  oii  a  faire  horde, 
&  myce  the  panches  smaH;  And  j^en  take  fressh  broth  of  fressh  Salmon,  or  of 
eles,  or  of  turbut,  and  cast  J'e  myced  paunches  ther^-to,  And  ponder  of  peper, 
and  lete  boyle ;  And  then  take  the  broth  that  j^e  paunches  and  lyuers  were 
y-sodde  in,  And  stepe  there-in  faire  brede,  and  drawe  hit  thorgh  a  streyno«<r ; 
And  j^en  myce  Jje  lyuers  in  faire  peces ;  And  whan  the  paunche  hath  wel 
y-boyled  in  J^e  lico«<r,^  caste  \>e  lyuers  thereto,  and  lete  boyle  a  while;  And 
serne  hit  forth  bote  for  gode  potage  ;  and  late  hit  be  som-dele  rennynge. 

ffygey.  ^  Take  figges,  and  caste  hem  in  a  potte,  And  cast  there-to  wyne  or 
Ale,  ^and  lete  hem  boile,  And  take  hem  vppe,  and  bray  hem  in  a  morter  ; 
And  ])eh  take  brede,  and  stepe  in  j^e  same  licoi<r,  and  cast  thereto.  And  drawe 
hem  Jjorgh  a  streynowr,  and  caste  hit  in  a  faire  potte  with  wyne  or  ale ;  and 

*  D.  Torched  ef/ges.  "^  fol.  I9b.  ^  D.  pepyr  pynes.  •*  3  pounds  of  pounded. 

*  Amydones,  Douce  MS.  wJiick  adds,  a  galone  of  wyne,  &  a  gode  quawtite  of  vynegre 
&  lete.  ^  Douce  MS.  and.  '  Harl.  MS.  Gyngantrey. 

8  Douce  MS.  adds :  cast  the  Hour  tlier-to  and  lete  buille  awhile,  &  then ;  the  Hour  being 
the  brede  and  broth.  ^  fol.  20. 


COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    RAPES,    JUSSELL.  95 

j^efi  take  figes,  and  kutte  hem  smale,  pynes,  saundres,  pouder  of  peper,  a  lituH 
satFiofi  and  salt,  and  cast  ]>er-to,  and  serue  hit  stonding. 

Chaudewyni?.  ^  Take  ]7e  Guttes  of  fressh  Samon),  and  do  awey  the  gaH;  and 
slytte  hem,  and  caste  hem  in  a  potte,  and  boyle  hem  in  water  right  weU  ; 
And  ley  hem  vpofl  a  horde,  and  hewe  hem ;  And  fien  stepe  brede  in  J^e  same 
lico?a',  And  cast  soni  of  the  samon  broth  thereto,  And  drawe  aH  thorgh  a 
streyno?n' ;  and  then  caste  the  heweii  guttes  and  ]>e  drawefi  brede  in  a  potte, 
and  a  lituH  wyii,  pouder  of  Caneli,  or  saffron,  And  lete  boyle  togidre ;  And 
cast  ther<j-to  pouder  of  pept^r,  Vinegre,  and  salt ;  And  lete  hit  be  rennyng. 

Rapes.  ^'  Take  half  figges  and  half  reysons,  and  boile  hem  in  wyii,  and 
take  hem  vp,  and  bray  hem  in  a  morter,  And  drawe  hem  with  ]>e  same  lico2<r 
thorgh  a  streyno?a-,  so  thik  that  hit  be  stonding ;  And  then  take  resons  of 
corance,  Pynes,  Clowes,  Maces,  sugur  of  Cipris,  and  cast  J^er^^to,  and  put  hit 
in  a  faire  potte ;  And  theil  take  a  fewe  Saundres,  pouder  peper,  CaneH, 
and  a  lituH  Saffron ;  And  if  hit  be  not  stonding  ynogh,  take  a  lituii  floure  of 
Amidons,  And  drawe  hit  with  wyn)  thorgh  a  streyno?<r,  And  cast  there-to  salt, 
and  seme  it  forth  stondyng. 

lussheH.  ^  Take  the  ffry  of  a  pyke,  and  cast  hit  rawe  in  a  raorter,  and 
cast  there -to  myced^  brede  grated,  and  bray  hem  asmaH  as  J'ou  maist ;  And  if 
hit  be  to  stonding,  caste  there-to  a  lituH  mylke  of  Almondes,  And  bray  hit 
togidre,  and  strek-  hit  togidre  with  thi  honde  ;  And  cast  there-to  a  lituH  saffron 
with  Sugur  and  salt,  And  put  aH  in  a  treeil  boH,  and  truH^  hit  to-gidre  with 
thi  honde  ;  And  loke  Jiat  hit  be  nojt  to  thik,  but  as  ''a  mail  may  powre  it  oute 
of  ]>e  boH ;  And  j^efi  take  a  pail,  and  caste  thereto  faire  grauey  of  a  pike,  or  of 
a  fressh  samoil,  and  drawe  hit  thorgh  a  streyno?<r,  and  sette  it  ouer  the  fire ; 
and  take  faire  pffvcely  and  Sauge,  and  caste  there-to,  and  lete  hit  boile,  and 
caste  there-to  a  lituH  saffron  and  salt ;  And  whail  hit  hath  boy  led  a  while,  sterre 
hit  fast,  and  caste  the  stuff  thereto,  and  ster  hit  euennore.  And  whaii  hit  is 
al  oute  of  the  boile,  [cast  it]^  a  liteH  and  a  liteH  into  Jie  pan,  stere  it  softer 
and  softer  til  hit  be  roil  to-gidre ;  And  jjen  take  a  ladeH  or  a  skjmmouv,  and 
drawe  hit  togidi-e  soft  til  hit  come  to-gidre.  And  take  hit  fro  j^e  fire,  and  sette 
]>e  vesseli  oil  a  fewe  colys,  and  lete  hit  wax  stiff  be  his  owne  accorde,  and 
then  serue  it  forth  with  a  skymour,  like  as  fou.  wolt  serue  lusseH,  aH  bote. 

Gele  of  pesoil.  ^  Take  a  pike  newe  right  y-drawe,^  and  smyte  him  in  faire 

1  MS.  myced  myced.     D.  maijnchete.  -  Douce  MS.  strike. 

3  Ptwillf,  as  Douce  MS.  *  fol.  20^.  5  Added  from  Douce  MS. 

®  Douce  MS. :  Draw  new  pikes  and  new  righ,  and  smyte  hem. 


96  COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    CAUDLES,    OIL    SOPS. 

pecep,  and  sethe  liim  in  same  lico?<r  as  J^ou  doest  Gele  of  flesi^fi/  And  whan  hit 
is  ynopii,  take  hit  vppe ;  And  ])tn  take  p^'rches,  tenches,  elys,  &  kutte  hem 
in  faire  peces,  and  wassh  hem,  and  put  hem  in  the  same  licoMr ;  and  loke  that 
thou  haue  fissli  ynogli,  that  the  licoure  may  be  stiff  ynowe ;  And  in  caas  ]7at 
J70U  faile  fissB,  that  )70u  hast  not  ynojzli  to  make  gely,  take  faire  soundes  of 
watered  stokfissh,  or  elles  of  ffresh  MilleweH,  or  elles  of  kelyng,^  and  cast 
thereto  ;  and  sette  ouer  j^e  fire,  and  lete  it  boyle  ;  and  Jiat  woH  help  hit  to  gele  ; 
and  skein  clone  j^e  grave;  And  whan  hit  is  ynogli,  lete  nojt  the  fissh  hreke, 
but  take  vppe  the  fissh  hole,  and  set  the  lico?a-  fro  the  fire,  and  put  coles 
vndernetii  the  vesseH  as  j^ou  doest  afore  to  the  o]>er  gele  of  flessK,  with 
vinegre,  pouder  of  peper,  saffron  &  salt ;  And  J^eii  take  a  pike,  p^rche,  and 
tenche,  and  pul  of  the  skyil,  And  put  a  pece  of  one  and  a  pece  of  anoj/er  in  a 
faire  dissh,  as  j^ou  dost  oj^er  gele  of  fflesh,  And  poure  the  lico?<r  there-on,  as  ]iou 
doest  oj^er  gele  of  flessh ;  and  cast  there-on  almondes  blanched,  and  foyles  of 
tried  ^ginger  pared,  and  set  hit  in  a  colde  place,  and  lete  hit  gele. 

CaudeH.  ^  Take  faire  tryed  yolkes  of  eyren,  and  cast  in  a  potte ;  and  take 
good  ale,  or  elles  good  wyn,  a  quautite,  and  sette  it  ouer  j^e  fire/  And  whan 
hit  is  at  boyling,  take  it  fro  the  fire,  and  caste  };ere-to  saffron,  salt,  Sugur ; 
and  ceson  hit  vppe,  and  serae  hit  forth  bote. 

Oyle  soppes.  ^  Take  a  good  quantite  of  oynons,  and  myce  hem,  nojt  to 
smale,  &  seth  hem  in  faire  water.  And  take  hem  vppe ;  and  then  take  a 
good  quantite  of  stale  ale,  as  .iij.  galons.  And  there-to  take  a  pynte  of  goode 
oyle  that  is  fraied,  and  cast  the  oynons  there-to,  And  lete  al  boyle  togidre  a 
grete  [while] ;  ^  and  caste  there-to  Saffron  and  salt.  And  j^en  put  brede,  in 
maner  of  brewes,  and  cast  the  licowr  there-oil,  and  seme  hit  forth  bote. 

CaudeH  de  Almondes.  ^  Take  rawe  almondes,  and  grinde  hem.  And 
temper  hem  with  goode  ale  and  a  litul  water;  and  drawe  hem  thorgli  a 
streynowr  into  a  faire  potte,  and  lete  hit  boyle  awhile;  And  cast  there-to 
saffron,  Sugur  and  salt,  and  seme  hit  forth  hote. 

*Cheaut  de  Almondes.  ^  Take  almondes,  and  blanche  hem,  and  grynde  hem 
with  faire  water,  and  drawe  hem  thorgli  a  streynoMr,  and  sette  hem  on  the 
fire,  and  lete  hem  boyle  ones ;  and  cast  there-to  sugur  and  salt,  And  seme  it 
forth  hote. 

Lente  ffruto^^rs.  ^  Take  goode  floure.  Ale  yeest,^  saffron,  and  salt,  and  bete 
al  to-gidre  as  thik  as  o]7er  maner  fruto?<rs  of  fiiesh ;  and  ]>en  take  Appels,  and 

I  D.  kodelyng.  2  foi,  21,  3  Douce  MS.  wile. 

*  Chaudkt  Douce  MS.  *  D.  however  reads  Ale  and  yeest. 


COOKERY   BOOK   II.    HARL.    4016.    DISHES   OF    FRUIT.  97 

pare  hem,  and  kut  hem  in  maner  of  ffrutowrs,  and  wete  hem  in  ]>e  batur  vp 
and  downe,  and  fry  hem  in  oyle,  and  cast  hem  in  a  dissh,  and  cast  sug?<r 
]ieroh  ynowe,  and  serue  hem  forth  hote. 

[Lesenges  Fries.']  ^  Take  floure,  water,  saffron,  sug«<r,  and  salt,  and 
make  fyne  paast  }er-of,  ^and  faire  thyfi  kakes ;  and  kutte  hem  like  losenges, 
and  fry  hem  in  fyne  oile,  and  serue  hem  forthe  hote  in  a  dissh  in  lenten  tyme. 

[Risschewes  de  frute.^]  ^  Take  ffigges,  and  grinde  hem  in  a  morter  al  smal 
with  a  liteH  oyle,  and  grynde  with  hem,  clowes,  and  maces ;  and  then  take 
hem  vppe  i«-to  a  dissh,  and  caste  thereto  pynes,  saundres,  reisons  of  corauwce, 
myced  dates,  ponder  of  Peper,  CaneH,  Saffron,  and  salt ;  And  then  make  fyne 
paast  of  floure,  water,  sugur,  saffron,  and  salt,  And  make  there-of  faire  kakes  ; 
and  then  rolle  the  stuff  in  thi  honde,  and  couche  hit  in  J^e  kakes ;  kutte  hem, 
and  so  folde  hem  [togedrys]  *  as  risshewes,  And  fry  hem  in  goode  Oyle,  And 
serue  hem  forthe  hote. 

[Trayne  roste.^]  ^  Take  Dates  and  figges,  and  kutte  hem  in  a  peny 
brede  ;  And  J7en  take  grete  reysons  and  blanched  almondes,  and  prik  hem 
thorgh  with  a  nedel  into  a  threde  of  a  mannys  length,  and  one  of  one  frute 
and  a-no)7er  of  a-no|7er  frute ;  and  ]7en  bynde  the  threde  with  the  frute 
A-bought  a  rownde  spate,  endelonge  ]>e  spete,  in  maner  of  an  hasselet ;  And 
theii  take  a  quarte  of  wyne  or  Ale,  and  fyne  floure,^  And  make  batur  thereof, 
and  cast  thereto  pouder  ginger,  sugur,  &  saffron,''  pouder  of  Clowes,  salt; 
And  make  ]>e  batur  not  fully  rennyng,  and  noj^er  stonding,  but  in  ]>e  mene, 
that  hit  may  cleue,  and  ^  than  rost  the  *  treyne  abought  the  fire  in  ]>e  spete ;  And 
j?efi  cast  the  batur  on  the  treyne  as  he  turneth  abough[t]  the  fire,  so  longe 
til  J'e  frute  be  hidde  in  the  batur  ;  as  ]70u  castest  ]>e  batur  there-on,  hold  a 
vesseH  vndere-nethe,  for^  spilling  of  ]>e  batur/  And  whan  hit  is  y-rosted  weH, 
hit  wol  seme  a  hasselet ;  And  then  take  hit  vppe  fro  ]>e  spit  al  hole,  And  kut 
hit  in  faire  peces  of  a  Span  length.  And  [serue] '"  of  hit  a  pece  or  two  in  a 
dissh  al  hote. 

ftuynces  or  Wardones  in   paast.  ^  Take  and  make  rounde   coffyns   of 

paast;    and  take  rawe  quynces,  and  [pare]"  '^hem  with  a  knyfe,  and  take 

oute  clene  the  core ;  And  take  Sug^<r  ynogh,  and  a  lituH  pouder  ginger  and 

stoppe  the  hole  fuH.    And  ]7en  couche  ij.  or  iij.  quynces  or  wardens  in  a 

Coffyn),  and  keuer  hem.  And  lete  hem  bake  ;  or  elles  take  clarefied  hony  in- 

stede  of  sugur,  if  thou  maist  none  sugur;  And  if  j^ou  takest  [hony],'^  put 

1  Douce  MS.  -  fol.  2lb.  3  jjouce  MS.  *  Douce  MS. 

*  Douce  MS.  6  D.  MS.;  sugur,  Harl.     '^  Douce  MS.       ^-«  D.  MS.;  that  rost,  Harl. 

»  against,  to  stop,      i"  Douce  MS.        'i  added  from  D.  MS.       i'  fol.  22.       i^  Douce  MS. 

7 


98         COOKERY   BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    FRUIT   TART,    CHEWETS,    ETC. 

thereto  a  lituH  pouder  peper,  and  ginger,  and  put  hit  in  ])e  same  maner  in  the 
quynces  or  wardens,  and  late  hem  bake  ynogh. 

'Rastons.  ^  Take  fyne  flours,  and  white  of  eyren,  and  a  litul  of  the  yolkes  ; 
And  then  take  warme  berm,  and  put  al  thes  togidre,  and  bete  hem  togidre 
with  thi  honde  so  longe  til  hit  be'^  short  and  thik  ynogh.  And  caste  sugt^r 
ynowe  thereto ;  And  j^en  lete  rest  a  while  ;  And  then  cast  hit  in  a  faire  place 
in  an  oven),  and  lete  bake  ynogh ;  And  ]>en  kut  hit  with  a  knyfe  rownde 
aboue  in  maner  of  a  crowne,  and  kepe  ]>e  crust  ]7at  ]>ou  kuttest,  and  pile  ^  all 
}e  cremes  *  within  togidre ;  and  pike  hem  smaH  witB  thi  knyfe,  and  saue  the 
sides  and  al  J^e  cruste  hole  wit/^oute  ;  And  'pen  cast  thi  clarefied  butter,  and 
niedle  fe  creme  ^  and  pe  buttwr  togidre.  And  couer  hit  ayeii  with  pe  cruste 
that  Jjou  kuttest  awey ;  and  then  put  hit  in  the  oven  ayeil  a  litull  tyme,  aud 
take  it  cute,  and  serue  hit  forthe  all  bote. 

Tart  de  ffruyte.  ^  Take  figges,  and  seth  hem  in  wyne,  and  grinde  hem 
smale,  And  take  hem  vppe  into  a  vesseH ;  And  take  pouder  pepi?r,  CaneH, 
Clowes,  Maces,  pouder  ginger,  pynes,®  grete  reysons  of  corau?2ce,  saffron,  and 
salte,  and  cast  thereto ;  and  J7en  make  faire  lowe  coffyns,  and  couche  pis 
stuff  there-in,  And  plonte  pynes  aboue ;  and  kut  dates  and  fressB  salmon  in 
faire  peces,  or  elles  f ressh  eles,  and  parboyle  hem  a  lituH  in  wyne,  and  couche 
thereon;  And  couche''  the  coffyns  faire  with  pe  same  paaste,  and  endore  the 
coffyn  withoute  with  saffrow  &  almond  mylke ;  and  set  hem  in  Jje  oveii  and 
lete  bake. 

[Chewettes].  ^  *Take  and  make  faire  paste  of  floure,  water,  saffron,  and 
salt ;  And  make  rownde  cofyns  J^ere-of ;  and  l^eii  make  stuff  as  Jjou  doest  for 
risshcshewes,  and  put  pe  stuff  in  pe  Coffyns,  and  couer  the  coffyns  with  pe 
same  paaste,  and  fry  hem  in  goode  oyle  as  ^^ou  doest  risslishewes,  and  serue 
hem  forthe  bote  in  the  same  maner. 

Lamprey  I-bake.  ^  Take  and  make  a  faire  rounds  coffyn  of  paast ;  and 

}7en  take  a  fressh  lamprey,  and  lete  him  blode  .ij.  fingers  within  pe  naueli. 

And  lete  him  blode  in  a  vesseH,  and  lete  him  dy  in  j^s  sams  blode ;  And 

then  take  browne  brede,  and  kut  hit,  and  steps  hit  in  vinegre,  and  draws  hit 

]70rgB  a  streyno?<r ;  and  Jieii  take  j^e  same  blode,  and  pouder  of  CaneH,  And 

cast  there-to,  til  hit  be  browne ;  And  then  cast  thereto  a  litul  pouder  of 

peper  and  salt,  and  a  lituH  wyne,  that  hit  be  not  to  strongs  with  vynsgrs ; 

And  then  skald  the  lamprey,  and  pare  him  clene,  and  couche  him  rounde  in 

1  Douce  MS.;  Baslons,  Harl.        ^  Douce  MS.  ^  Douce  'M^.;  pike  Harl. 

*  Douce  MS.  cro?HM.  *  Douce  MS.  a'omwfs.      "^  D.  adds:  reysyns  fried  iu  oyle. 

"  Douce  MS.  keue>e.  *  fol.  2'lb. 


COOKERY    BOOK   II.    HARL.    4016.    LAMPREY   SAUCE    AND    PICKLE.         99 

a  coffyn ;  and  J^eii  caste  al  ]>e  sewe  rownde  abouglit  vppoii  him  in  the  coffyn. 
til  hit  be  couered ;  And  theii  couer  ]>e  coffpi,  and  hele  hit  with  a  lydde  aboue, 
save  a  litul  hole ;  and  at  the  hole  blowe  in  the  coffyn  with  thi  mouthe 
a  good  blast  of  wynde ;  and  sodenly  stoppe  the  hole,  that  the  wynde  abide 
within  ])e  coffyn,  to  ryse  up  ]>e  cofyfi  that  he  fall  not  a-downe.  And  whan 
hit  is  a  litul  y-harded  in  J^e  oven,  prik  the  coffyii)  with  a  pyu,  for  ^  brestyng  - 
of  ]>e  coffyn ;  And  lete  bake  ynowe,  And  s^rue  it  forthe  colde.  And  whaii 
the  lamprey  is  ytake  oute  of  ]>e  coffyn,  and  I-ete,^  take  the  sirippe  oute  of 
]>e  coffyn,  and  put  hit  in  a  chargeowr,  and  caste  wyne  ther^-to,  And  pouder 
of  giQg(?r,  And  lete  boyle  ouer  Jie  fire ;  And  take  paynmam,  and  kutte  hit 
and  wete  hit  yn.  And  ley  j^e  soppes  yn  the  coffyn  of  j^e  lamprey,  And  cast 
the  sirippe  aboue,  and  ete  it  so/ 

Sauce  po«r  lamprey.  ^  Take  a  quyk  lamprey,  And  lete  him  blode  at  ]7e 
naueH,  And  lete  him  blode  in  an  erthen  potte ;  And  scalde  him  with  hey,  and 
wassh  hiwi  *  clene,  and  put  him  [on  a  spitte ;]  ^  and  sette  the  vesseH  with  J^e 
blode  vnder  ]>e  lamprey  while  he  rosteth.  And  kepe  the  licoure  j^at  droppeth 
oute  of  him  ;  And  then  take  oynons,  and  myce  hem  small,  And  put  hem  yn  a 
vesseH  with  wyne  or  water.  And  let  hem  pffrboyle  right  well ;  And  then  take 
awey  the  water,  and  put  hem  in  a  faire  vesseH  ;  And  j^en  take  ponder  of  CaneH 
and  wyne,  And  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  streynowr,  and  cast  [hit  to]  *'  the  oynons, 
and  set  ouer  the  fire,  and  lete  hem  boyle ;  And  cast  a  lituH  vinegre  and 
parcely  there-to,  and  a  litul  peper ;  And  |7en  take  ]>e  blode  and  j>e  dropping 
of  ]>e  lamprey,  and  cast  thereto  [&  lete  buille  to-gedrys  tiH  it  be  a  liteH; 
thykke,  &  cast  therto]''  pouder  ginger,  vynegre,  salt,  and  a  lituH  saffron; 
And  whan  fe  lamprey  is®  rested  ynowe,  ley  him  in  a  faire  chargeo2<r,  And 
caste  aH  the  sauce  apon  him,  And  so  seme  him  forth. 

Lamprey  poudred.  ^  Take  a  lamprey  poudred,  and  stryke  away  the  salt 
with  thi  honde ;  take  awey  the  bone  fro  ]>e  Jirote  into  ]?e  tayle  by  the  bely 
side.  And  ley  him  in  water  a  day  and  a  nyght,  and  scald  him  in  water  with 
strawe  or  hey,  to  stripe  him  with-aH  ;  And  theii  wassh  him  clene,  and  cast 
him  in  faire  water  colde,  and  seth  him,  and  cast  x.  or  xij.  oynons  hole  vn- 
pullud,  and  lete  hem  seth  togidre,  and  skem  it ;  And  ]>eT\  take  vp  the  lamprey 
and  l^e  oynons  fro  J^e  water,  and  ley  hem  in  a  dissh  tiH  they  beii  colde  aH ; 
and  serue  hem  forthe  colde  with  sauce  GalentjTie ;  and  myce  the  oynons  in ' 
the  sauce,  &  ete  hem  so. 

^  against,  to  stop.         ^  Douce  MS.  ;  brennyng,  Harl.         ^  eaten.  *  fol.  23. 

*  Douce  MS. ;  Harl.  MS.  in  a  faire  brothe.  ^  added  from  Douce  MS. 

'  added  from  Douce  MS.  *  Harl.  MS.  is  ro.  ^  Douce  MS.;  ayid  Harl. 


100  COOKERY    BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.    LAMPRONS   AND   OYSTERS. 

StokfissB.  in  sauce.  ^  Take  faire  brotfi  of  elys,  or  pike,  or  elles  of  fressB. 
samond,  And  streyn  hit  thorgli  a  streynowr ;  and  take  faire  p«rcelly,  And 
hewe  hem  smaH,  And  putte  the  brotli  and  ]>e  prrrcelly  into  an  erthen  potte, 
And  cast  ]>erto  ponder  ginger,  and  a  litul  vergeous.  And  lete  hem  boyle 
to-gidre ;  and  j^eii  take  faire  sodden)  stokfissli,  and  ley  hit  in  bote  water  ;  and 
whan  jjou  wilt  seme  it  forth,  take  ]>e  fissh  fro  jie  water,  and  ley  hit  in  a 
dissh,  And  caste  the  sauce  al  bote  ther^-on,  and  seme  it  forth. 

Lamprons  in  Galentyne.  ^  Take  brede,  and  stepe  it  in  wyne  and  vynegre, 
and  •cast  there-to  CaneH,  ^and  drawe  it  thorgh  a  streyn  owr;  and  do  it  in  a 
potte,  and  cast  ponder  of  peper  thereto ;  And  take  smale  oynons,  and  myce 
hem,  and  fry  hem  in  oyle,  &  cast  ther^-to  a  fewe  saundres,  and  lete  hem  boyle 
a  litul ;  And  then  take  lawprons,  and  scalde  hem  with  hey  in  bote  water, 
and  seth  hem  ;  and  J^eil  b[r]oyle  "  hem  oii  a  faire  gredren,  and  ]>eT\  couche  hem 
in  a  dissh  and  cast  the  sauce  on  hem,  And  then  serue  it  forth. 

Lamprons  ybake.  ^  Take  lamprons,  and  scalde  hem  witli  hey ;  and  make 
faire  paaste,  and  couche  ij.  or  iij.  lamprons  thereon,  with  pouder  ginger,  salt 
and  paper,  and  lete  bake ;  And  leche  samoii  in  faire  brode  peces,  and  bake 
hem  in  ]>e  same  maner. 

Oystres  in  granej.  ^  Take  almondes,  and  blanche  hem,  and  grinde  hem, 
and  drawe  hem  J^orgh  a  streynoz^r  with  wyne,  and  with  goode  fressh  broth 
into  gode  mylke,  and  sette  hit  on  J^e  fire  and  lete  boyle  ;  and  cast  Jiereto 
Maces,  clowes,  Sugur,  pouder  of  Ginger,  and  faire  parboyled  oynons  myced  ; 
And  Jien  take  faire  oystres,  and  parboile  hem  togidre  in  faire  water;  And 
then  caste  hem  there-to.  And  lete  hem  boyle  togidre  til  ^^ey  ben  ynowe ;  and 
serue  hem  forth  for  gode  potage. 

Oystres  in  cevey.  ^  Take  oystres  and  sheH  hem  and  put  hem  in  a  vesseH, 
(and  l^e  water  that  is  within  ]>e  oystres  with-aH  ;)  And  cast  j^erto  a  litul  wyne, 
And  sette  hem  over  the  fire,  and  parboyle  hem  ;  And  j^en  take  faire  J^e  oystres 
vppe  of  the  broth,  and  put  hem  in  a  faire  potte  ;  And  take  ]>e  same  broth,  and 
drawe  hit  thorgh  a  streyno?<r,  and  cast  hit  in-to  j>o  oystres.  And  sette  hit  oner 
the  fire  ;  And  take  a  lituH  Of  j^e  same  broth  ayeii ;  and  a  lituH  wyne,  and  put 
hit  yii  a  faire  vesseH,  and  put  j^ere-to  browne  crustes  and  pouder  caneU,  and 
draw  hit  thorgh  a  streynoz^r  ;  and  myce  oynons  smaH,  and  fry  hem  in  oyle  or 
in  butter,  and  caste  hem  there-to,  and  sette  oner  the  fire.  And  whan  J^e 
oystres  boyleth,  caste  the  licoure  ^there-to,  and  cesoii  hit  vppe  with  pouder  of 
peper,  salt,  and  a  litel  saffron),  and  cast  there-to  a  litul  vinegre,  ])at  hit  be 
1  fol.  23J.  «  Douce  MS.  bouiUe.  ^  fol.  24. 


COOKERY   BOOK   II.    HARL.    4016.    DISHES   OF    PIKE.  101 

poynant  there-of  in  J»e  sesenyng  and  browne  also ;  And  s^rue  hit  fortli  for  a 
gode  potage. 

Pike  in  galentyne.  ^  Take  a  pike  and  setB.  him  ynowe  in  gode  sauce ;  And 
]>en  couche  him  in  a  vessel!,  that  he  may  be  y-caried  yn,  if  J^ou  wilt//  And 
what  tyme  he  is  colde,  take  brede,  and  stepe  hit  in  wyne  and  vinegre,  and  cast 
ther^-to  caneH,  and  drawe  hit  j'orgli  a  streynowr,  And  do  hit  in  a  potte,  And 
caste  there-to  pouder  peper;  And  take  smale  oynons,  and  myce  hem,  And 
fry  hem  in  oyle,  and  cast  ther^-to  a  fewe  saundres,  and  lete  boyle  awhile ; 
And  cast  aH  this  hote  vppon  ]>e  pike,  and  cary  him  forth. 

Pike  boyled.  ^  Take  and  make  sauce  of  faire  water,  salt,  and  a  lituH  Ale 
and  parcelly ;  and  j^efi  take  a  pike,  and  nape  him,  and  drawe  him  in  J^e  bely, 
And  slytte  him  thorgh  the  bely,  bak,  and  hede  and  taile,  with  a  knyfe  in  to  ^ 
peces ;  and  smyte  j^e  sides  in  quarters,  and  wassh  hem  dene;  And  if  thou 
wilt  have  him  rownde,  schoche  him  by  J^o  hede  in  ])e  backe,  And  drawe 
him  there,^  And  skoche  him  in  two  or  iij.  peces  ^  in  ]>e  bak,  but  nojt  thorgli ; 
And  slyt  the  pouuche,^  And  kepe  the  fey  or  the  lyuer,  and  kutte  awey  the 
gall.  And  whan  j^e  sauce  biginneth  to  boyle,  skem  hit.  And  wassh  J^e  pike, 
and  cast  him  )7ere-in,  And  caste  ]>e  pouche  and  fey  there-to,  And  lete  hem 
boyle  togidre ;  And  ]>en  make  the  sauce  thus :  myce  the  pouche  and  fey^ 
[in]  ^  a  litul  gravey  of  j^e  pike,  And  cast  ]7ere-to  pouder  of  ginger,  vergeows, 
mustarde,  and  salt,  And  seme  him  forth  hote. 

Pike  in  brase.  ^  Take  CaneH,  a  quarte  of  wyne,  and  a  lituH  vinegr(?, 
And  stepe  there-yii  tendur  brede ;  and  thrawe  it  )^orgh  a  streynowr.  And  lete 
boyle  -with  pouder  of  peper ;  And  take  the  pike,  and  roste  him  splat  on  a 
gredire  ynogh ;  And  cast  to  ]>e  sauce  ]>en,  [with]  pouder  of  ginger  and  sugt<r ; 
And  ley  the  pike  in  A  ^  charger,  the  wombe  side  vpward ;  and  then  caste  the 
sauce  there-oii  al  hote,  and  so  serue  him  forth. 

Anter  pike  in  Galentyne.  ^  Take  browne  brede,  and  stepe  it  in  a  quarte 

of  vinegre,  and  a  pece ''  of  wyne  for  a  pike,  and  quartereii  of  pouder  caneH, 

and  drawe  it  thorgh  a  streynowr  skilfully  thik,  and  cast  it  in  a  potte,  and  lete 

boyle ;  and  cast  there-to  pouder  peper,  or  ginger,  or  of  clowes,  and  lete  kele. 

And  ]>en  take  a  pike,  and  seth  him  in  good  sauce,  and  take  him  vp,  and  lete 

him  kele  a  litul ;  and  ley  him  in  a  boH  for  to  cary  him  yn ;  and  cast  jte  sauce 

vnder  him  and  aboue  him,  that  he  be  al  y-hidde  in  )7e  sauce ;  and  cary  him 

whej^er  euer  J^ou  wolt. 

1  i.e.  two.       2  MS.  there  &.       ^  Douce  MS.  placys.       *  i.e.  poche  of  a  fish,  see  below. 
6  Douce  MS.,  a«rfHarl.  «  fol.  2ib.  ''  Douce  MB.  pi/nt. 


102       COOKERY    BOOK   II.   HARL.   4016.    SALMOISr,    TROUT,    CRAB,    PERCH. 

Salmon  fressli  boiled.  %  Take  a  fressB  Salmon,  and  drawe  him  in  J^e  bely  ; 
and  chyne  him  as  a  swyne,  and  leche  him  flatte  with  a  knyfe ;  and  kutte  the 
chyne  in  ij.  or  in  .iij.  peces,  and  roste  him  on  a  faire  gredryn;  &  make  faire 
sauce  of  water,  p«rcelly,  and  salt.  And  whan  hit  begynneth  to  boyle,  skem 
it  clene,  and  cast  ]>e  peces  of  salmon  J^ere-to,  and  lete  hem  sethe  ;  and  )7en 
take  hem  vppe,  and  lete  hem  kele,  and  ley  a  pece  or  ij.  in  a  dissh ;  and  wete 
faire  foiles  of  p«rcely  in  vinegre,  and  caste  hem  yppofi  J7e  salmon  in  the 
dissh ;  And  J-en  ye  shaH:  serue  hit  forthe  colde. 

Samon  roste  in  Sauce.  ^  Take  a  Salmond,  and  cut  him  rounde,  chyne  and 
aH,  and  roste  the  peces  on  a  gredire  ;  And  take  wyne,  and  pouder  of  CaneH, 
and  drawe  it  J^orgli  a  streyno2<r ;  And  take  smale  myced  oynons,  and  caste 
Jjere-to,  and  lete  hem  boyle  ;  And  J^en  take  vynegre,  or  vergeo«<s,  and  pouder 
ginger,  and  cast  there-to ;  And  j^en  ley  the  samon  in  a  dissh,  and  cast  ]>e 
sirip  ]>eron  al  bote,  &  serue  it  forth. 

Troute  boyled.  ^  Take  a  troute,  and  nape  him  ;  And  make  faire  sauce  of 
water,  parcely,  'and  salt,  and  whan  hit  bigynneth  to  boile,  skeme  hit  clene; 
and  drawe  him  in  J^e  bely ;  and  if  Jjou  wilt  haue  him  rounde,  kut  him  in  ]>e 
bakke  in  two  or  ]>Te  places,  but  nojt  )'orgh,  And  drawe  him  in  ]>e  sket  ^  next 
the  hede,  as  thou  doest  a  rounde  pike  ;  and  J^e  sauce  is  verge  sauce ;  or  eiies 
seth  j^e  pouche  as  l^e  dost  ]>e  pouche  of  a  pike,  and  myce  hem  with  J^e  grauey, 
and  pouder  of  ginger ;  and  serue  him  forth  colde,  and  cast  j>e  foiles  of  p«rcelly, 
y-wet  in  vinegre,  oil  him  in  a  dissh. 

Crabbe  or  Lopster  boiled.  ^  Take  a  crabbe  or  a  lopster,  and  stop  him  in 
Jie  ventc  with  oil  of  hire  decs,  and  seth  him  in  water,  and  no  salt ;  or  elles 
stoppe  him  in  ])e  same  maner,  and  cast  him  in  ail  oven,  and  bake  him,  and 
serue  him  forth  colde.    And  his  sauce  is  vinegre. 

Perche  boiled.  ^  Take  a  perche,  and  drawe  him  in  J^e  throte,  and  make  to 
him  sauce  of  water  and  salt ;  And  whan  hit  bigynneth  to  boile,  skeme  hit  and 
caste  l^e  perche  there-in,  and  seth  him  ;  and  take  him  vppe,  and  pul  him, 
and  serue  him  forth  colde,  and  cast  vppoii  him  foiles  of  p«rcelly.  and  ])e 
sau[c]e  is  vinegre  or  vergeous.^ 

fiio^^ndres  boiled.  ^  Take  floundres,  and  drawe  hem  in  the  side  by  the  hede, 
and  seth^  hem,  &  make  sauce  of  water  and  salt,  and  a  good  quantite  of  ale ; 
And  whail  hit  biginneth  to  boile,  skeme  it,  and  caste  hem  there-to ;  And  late 
hem  sethe,  and  serue  hem  forth  bote ;  and  no  sauce  but  salt,  or  as  a 
mail  luste. 

*  fol.  25.        '  Douce  MS.  skoch.        ^  Douce  MS.  vert  sauee.        *  Douce  MS.  scocch. 


COOKERY   BOOK    II.    HARL,    4016.    SHRIMPS,    PLAICE,    SOLES.  103 

* 

Shrympes.  ^  Take  Shrympes,  and  setli  hem  in  water  and  a  lituH  salt,  and 
lets  hem  boile  ones  or  a  lituH  more.  And  serue  hem  forthe  colde ;  And  no 
maner  sauce  but  vinegre. 

Breme  or  Roche  boiled.  %  Take  a  Breme  or  a  roche,  and  scalde  him  in 
•water,  and  drawe  him  J>e  side  by  J^e  hede,  and  scocche '  him  [in]  J>e  side  in 
two  or  thre  places,  but  not  -thorgh,  and  setli  him  in  water,  ale,  and  salt,  and 
serue  him  forth  bote ;  the  sauce  is  vergyussauce  or  sauce  ginger. 

Breme  rost  ensauce.  ^  Take  a  breme,  and  scald  him,  (but  no^t  to  moche,) 
and  drawe  him  in  ]>e  bely,  and  pryk  him  j^orgB.  J^e  chyne  b5n  ij.  or  iij.^  with 
a  knyfe,  and  roste  him  on  a  gredire.  And  take  wyne,  and  boile  hit,  and  cast 
there-to  ponder  ginger,  Yergeoiis,  and  salt,  and  cast  on  ]>e  breme  in  a  dissh,  and 
serue  him  forth  bote. 

Plaise  boiled.  ^  Take  a  playse,  and  drawe  him  in  the  side  by  the  hede ;  And 
make  sauce  of  water,  parcelly,  salt.  And  a  litul  ale;  And  whaii  hit  bigynnetSi 
to  boyle,  skeme  hit  clene,  and  caste  hit  there-to,  and  lete  seth/  And  sauce  to 
him  is  mustard  and  ale  and  salt ;  And  serue  it  forthe  bote/  or  elles  take  a 
plays,  and  drawe  him,  pr/ke  him  with  a  knyfe  for  breking,  as  he  frieth ; 
And  fry  him  in  bote  oile,  or  elles  in  clarefied  buttur. 

Ray  boiled.  ^  Take  a  Ray,  and  draw  him  in  ]>e  bely,  and  kutte  him  in 
peces,  and  seth  him  in  water,  and  no  salt,  and  serue  him  forth  colde.  And 
his  sauce  is  vergeoHS,  or  lyuer  with  mustarde ;  And  boyle  ]>e  lyuer  with  him. 
And  serue  him  forthe. 

Sole,  boiled,  rost,  or  fryed.  ^  Take  a  sole,  and  do  awey  j^e  hede,  and 
drawe  him  as  a  phiis,  and  fie  him ;  And  make  sauce  of  water,  parcelly  and 
salt ;  And  whan  hit  bygynneth  to  boile,  skeme  it  clene,  and  lete  boyle  ynogh. 
And  if  J70U  wilt  haue  him  in  sauce,  take  him  whan  he  is  y-sodde ;  or  elles 
take  him  rawe  and  drawe  him,  and  scale  him  with  a  knyfe.  And  ley  him 
Tppon  a  gredryn,  and  broile  him.  And  take  wyne  and  ponder  of  CaneH,  and 
lete  boyle  a  while,  And  caste  there-to  pouder  ginger,  And  vergeous ;  and  caste 
jje  sauce  oil  ])e  sole  in  }7e  dissh.  And  serue  him  forthe  bote.  Or  elles  take  a 
sole,  and  do  a-wey  ]>e  hede  ;  drawe  hi?n,  and  scalde  him,  and  pryk  him  with 
a  knyfe  in  diuerse  places  for  ^  brekyng  of  Jie  skyil ;  And  fry  it  in  oyle,  or 
elles  in  pured  buttur. 

Gurnard  rested  or  boyled.  ^  Take  a  Gurnard,  and  drawe  him  in  ])c  bely 

and  saue^  the  powche  w/t/«-yn  hole ;  and  make  sauce  of  water  and  salt ;  And 

whan  hit  bigynnetfi  to  boile,  skeme  it  clene.  And  cast  the  Gurnard  thereto, 

'  Harl.  scorche;  Douce  MS.  scocche.  ^  fol.  25b.  ^  twies  or  thries. 

*  fol.  26.  *  Douce  MS. :  Harl.  sauce. 


104      COOKERY   BOOK    II.    HARL.   4016.    MINNOWS,    BARBEL,    STURGEON. 

And  setli  him,  and '  sauce/  to  him  is  sauce  of  ginger,  or  vergyussauce,  and 
seme  him  colde. 

Anojier.  ^  Take  a  gurnard  rawe,  and  slytte  him  endelonge  the  bak,  J>orgB. 
J?e  hede  and  tayle,  and  splatte  him,  and  kepe  the  lyuer;  And  take  ]>e  rawe 
lyuer,  and  brede,  and  fissli  broth,  Wyne,  and  vinegre,  And  drawe  hem  thorgB. 
a  streynoMr,  and  lete  boyle ;  and  ]^en  cast  there-to  poudcr  ginger,  saffron,  and 
salt.  And  ]>qTi  roste  the  gurnard,  and  splatte  him  ofa  a  gredire,  and  '^ley 
hym  in  a  dissh.^  And  j^en  cast  J^e  sauce  on  hym  in  J»e  dissh,  and  serue  him 
forthe  bote. 

Menese  or  loche  boiled.  ^  Take  Menyse  or  loche,  and  pike  hem  f aire ;  And 
make  sauce  of  a  gode  quantite  of  ale  and  parcelly.  And  whan  hit  biginnetfi 
nye  to  boyle,  skeme  it  clene,  and  cast  ]>e  fissB  thereto ;  and  lete  seth..  And 
if  a  mail  wol,  cast  a  litul  saffron  thereto:  and  sauce  is  vergesauce^;  And 
then  ye  shaH  serue  him  forth  bote. 

Haddok  or  codlyng.  ^  Take  an  haddok  or  codlyng,  and  di-awe  him  in  ]>e 
bely.  And  make  sauce  of  water  and  salt ;  And  whaii  hit  bigynneth  to  boyle, 
skeme  hit  clene,  and  caste  the  fissli  thereto,  And  seth  hit  in  his  sauce.  His 
sauce  is  garlek  or  verge-sauce  ;  and  serxe  him  bote. 

BarbeH  boyled.  ^  Take  a  barbeH,  and  kutte  him,  and  *draw  him  rounde  ; 
And  pike*  in  }»e  nape  of  the  hede  and  seth  him  in  water  and  salt,  Ale,  and 
p«rcely.  And  whaii  hit  bygynneth  to  boile,  skeme  hit  clene,  and  caste  the 
barbel  there-to.  And  setli  him.  And  his  sauce  is  garlek  or  vergesauce,  *And 
]>en  serue  him  forth. 

Millet  boyled.  ^  Take  a  MiUet,  and  scale  him,  and  drawe  him  in  J^e  bely, 
and  wassB  him  clene ;  and  jien  take  a  pynte  of  wyne,  and  pouder  caneH,  And 
boile  hem  ouer  the  fire.  And  whaii  hit  is  yboiled  ynowe,  caste  ther^-to  pouder 
ging<;r  and  a  litel  vergeous ;  and  caste  the  same  lico?<r  vppou  hiwj  in  the  dissh, 
and  serue  him  forth  bote;  other  elles  scale  him  and  drawe  him,  and  fry  him 
in  good  oyle. 

Sturgeon  boiled.  ^  Take  a  Sturgeofi,  and  kut  of  the  vyn  fro  the  tayle  to  ]>e 
hede,  on  ]>e  bakke ;  and  chyne  him  and  boyle  him.  And  whaii  hit  boileth, 
skeme  it,  and  caste  p«rcelly  thcre-to.  And  lete  hem  boyle  ynowe,  And  then 
take  him  vppe,  And  serue  him  forth  colde  with  leves  of  parcelly  wet  in 
vinegre,  and  caste  there-on  in  j^e  dissh ;  And  sauce  ]>er-to  is  vinegre. 

Sturgeoii  in  broth.  ^  Take  fressh  sturgeon,  and  chop  it,  and  p«rboile  it  in 

'  MS.  in.  2.2  Douce  MS.;  Harl.  resle  him. 

^  Douce  MS.  vert  sauce.  *-*  Douce  MS.  draw  hym  as  a  rounde  pike. 

5   fol.  26i. 


COOKERY    BOOK   II.    HARL,    4016.    STURGEON,    PORPOISE,    TENCH.       105 

water ;  and  take  hit  fro  the  fire,  and  streyne  it  ^  jJorgB  a  streynowr  into  a 
potte ;  and  pike  clene  the  fissh  thereto  ;  and  cast  there-to  ponder  pep^-r,  clowes, 
Maces,  and  caneH,  and  faire  brede,  and  stepe  hit  with  the  same  licowr,  and 
streyne  hit  thorgh  a  streyno2<r,  and  caste  there-to  ;  And  lete  boyle  togidre  ; 
And  caste  thereto  Saffron,  ponder  ginger,  salt,  And  vinegre ;  And  then  ye 
shali  serue  it  forth. 

Sturgeon  po«r  porpeys.  ^  Take  a  Sturgeon,  Turbut,  or  porpeys,  and  kut 
hit  in  faire  peces  to  bake ;  And  then  make  faire  kakes  of  faire  paast,  And 
take  ponder  of  peper,  ponder  of  Ginger,  CaneH,  and  salt.  And  medio  ]>ea 
poudres  and  salt  togiders ;  And  take  and  ley  a  pece  of  the  fissh  on  a  kake/ 
and  ley  ]>e  ponders  vnderneth  ]?e  fissh,  and  abone  ynowe ;  And  j^efi  wete  the 
sides  of  ]7e  paast  with  faire  colde  water,  and  close  the  sides  to-gidre,  and 
sette  hem  in  an  oveil,  and  bake  hem  ynowe. 

-  ffirmenty  with  porpeys.  ^  Take  faire  almondes,  and  wassh  hem  clene, 
and  bray  hem  in  a  morter,  and  drawe  hem  with  water  thorgh  a  streynowr 
into  mylke,  and  caste  hit  ia.  a  vesseH.  And  then  take  wete,  and  bray  it  in  a 
morter,  that  al  jie  hole  hoH  be  awey,  and  boyle  hit  in  faire  water  til  hit  be 
wel  ybroke  and  boyled  ynowe.  And  ]?en  take  hit  fro  the  fire,  and  caste 
thereto  j^e  mylke  and  lete  boyle.  And  whan  hit  is  yboyled  ynowe,  and  thik, 
caste  there-to  Sugur,  Saffron,  and  salt ;  and  J^en  take  a  porpeys,  and  chyne 
him  as  a  Samon,  And  seth  him  in  faire  water.  And  whan  hit  is  ynowe,  baude 
hit,  and  leche  hit  in  faire  peces,  and  se^ue  hit  forth  with  firmanty,  and  cast 
there-on  bote  water  ^  in  ]>e  dissh. 

Tenche  in  brase.  ^  Take  a  tenche,  and  nape  him,  and  slyt  him  in  j^e  bak 
thorgh  the  hede  and  taile.  And  drawe  him ;  and  ]>en  make  sauce  of  water 
and  salt.  And  whan  hit  bigynneth  to  boyle,  skeme  it  clene,  and  cast  J^e  tenche 
therein,  and  seth  him ;  And  take  him  vppe,  and  pul  of  the  skyn,  And  ley  him 
flatte,  and  j^e  bely  vpwardes  in  a  dissh.  And  J^en  take  percelly  and  oynons 
And  hewe  hem  small  to-giders ;  And  cast  ]7ere-to  pouder  of  Ginger,  and  cast  hit 
in  vinegre  ;  And  caste  aU  on  ]>e  tenche  in  j^e  dissh,  and  serue  him  forthe  colde. 

Another  diting  of  a  tenche.  ^  Take  a  quarte  of  wyne  and  a  litiil  vinegre. 
And  tendure  brede.  And  stepe  all  togidre,  and  drawe  hit  thorgh  a  streynowr ; 
and  lete  hit  boyle ;  And  caste  there-to  pouder  peper ;  And  take  a  tenche, 
and  splat  him,  and  reste  him  oil  a  gredire,  and  cast  his  sauce  vppou  him  in 
the  dissh ;  And  j^en  serue  hit  forthe  bote. 

Turbut  boyled.  ^  Take  a  Turbut,  and  drawe  him  in  the  side  as  a  plays  by 
1  i.e.  the  broth,  as  Douce  MS  reads.  *  fol.  27.  ^  Douce  MS.  broth. 


106  COOKERY    BOOK   II.    HARL.    4016.    TURBOT,    WHELKS. 

the  hede ;  and  J7eii  chyne  tim,  and  kut  him  in  brode  peces ;  And  ]>en  make 
Sauce  of  the  water  and  salt ;  And  when  hit  bigynneth  to  boyle,  skeme  hit 
clene  and  ^  wassh  the  peces  clene,  and  caste  hem  thereto,  and  lete  hem  boyle 
ynowe.  And  ]>en  take  hem  vppe,  and  let  hem  kele,  And  ley  a  pece  or  two  in 
A  dissh,  and  caste  the  levys  of  pffrcelly  wette  in  vinegre  there-oil,  And  serue 
forth ;  And  his  sauce  is  verge-sauce. 

Turbut  roste  ensauce.  ^  Take  a  Turbut,  and  kut  of  fe  vynnes  in  maner 
of  a  hastelette,  and  broche  him  on  a  rounde  broche,  and  roste  him  ;  And  whaii 
hit  is  half  y-rosted,  cast  thereon  smale  salt  as  he  rosteth.  And  take  also  as 
he  rosteth,  vergeoMS,  or  vinegre,  wyne,  pouder  of  Gynger,  and  a  lituH  caneH, 
and  cast  thereon  as  he  rosteth.  And  holde  a  dissh  vnderneth,  fore  spilling  of 
the  lico?<r ;  And  whaii  hit  is  rosted  ynowe,  hete  ]>e  same  sauce  ouer  the  fire. 
And  caste  hit  in  a  dissh  to  Jje  fissh  aH  bote,  And  serue  it  forth. 

Tripe  de  Turbut.  ^  Take  the  mawes  of  a  Turbot,  Haddok,  or  codlynge, 
and  pike  hem  clene,  and  skrape  hem,  and  wassh  hem  clene,  and  parboyle 
hem  in  good  fressh  broth  of  Turbot,  haddok,  Salmon,  or  pyk ;  and  take 
p«rcelly,  and  kut  hit  smale,  and  caste  ]:ere-to ;  and  kut  ]>e  mawes  in  maner 
of  Tripes  of  peny  brede,  and  cast  al  togidre  in  a  potte,  And  lete  boyle.  And 
whan  hit  is  y-boyled  ynowe,  that  J^ey  be  al  tendre,  caste  J'ere-to  saffron,  Salt, 
And  a  litel  yergeous,  pouder  of  Gynger,  And  serue  hit  forth  fore  a  good  potage. 

Welkes  boyled.  ^  Take  welkes,  and  caste  hem  in  colde  water,  And  lete  hem 
boyle  but  a  lituH ;  And  caste  hem  oute  of  the  vessel!,  And  pike  hem  oute  of 
the  sheH,  and  pike  awey  the  hom  of  hem,  and  wassh  hem  and  rubbe  hem  weli 
in  colde  water  and  salt,  in  two  or  thre  waters ;  And  serue  hem  colde,  And  caste 
vppoii  hem  leves  of  parcelly  ywet  in  vinegre.  And  sauce  to  hem  is  vynegre. 

Milkemete.  ^  ^  Take  faire  mylke  and  lloure,  and  draue  hem  J^orgh  a 
streyno2<r,  and  sette  hem  ouer  the  fire,  and  lete  hem  boyle  awhile  ;  And  theii 
take  hem  vppe,  and  lete  hem  kele  awhile/  And  Jjen  take  rawe  yolkes  of  eyren 
and  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  streynoMr,  and  caste  thereto  a  lituU  salt.  And  set  it 
ouer  the  fire  til  hit  be  som-what  thik,  And  lete  hit  nojt  fully  boyle,  and  stere 
it  right  well  euermore.  And  put  it  in  a  dissh  al  abrode,  And  seme  it  forth 
fore  a  gode  potage  in  one  maner ;  And  then  take  Sugur  a  good  quantite, 
And  caste  there-to,  and  serue  it  forth. 

Chared  coneys,^  or  chardwardou.  ^  Take  a  quarter  of  clarefied  hony,  iij. 
vnces  of  pouder  peper,  and  putte  bothe  to-gidre ;  then  toke  30  coynes 
&  X  wardones,  and  pare  hem,  and  drawe  oute  J^e  corkes  *  at  eyther  ende,  and 

>  fol.  27b,        *  fol.  28.        2  Char  de  cojues,  quince  marmalade  ?        *  ?  cokes,  or  cores. 


COOKERY   BOOK    II.    HARL.    4016.     QUINCE   MARMALADE.  107 

setB  hem  in  goode  wort  til  fej  be  soft,  thcil  bray  hem  in  a  morter ;  if  they 
ben  thik,  putte  a  lituH  wyne  to  hem,  and  drawe  hem  thorgh  a  streyno?<r ; 
And  ]>en  put  j>e  hony  and  Jiat  to-gidre,  then  sette  al  on  the  fire,  and  lete 
seth  awhile  til  hit  wax  thikk<?,  but  stcrre  it  weH;  with  ij.  sturrers  for  sitting 
to ;  And  \>en  take  it  downe,  and  put  J^ere-to  a  quarter  of  an  vnce  of  pouder 
ging<?r,  And  so  moche  of  galingale,  And  so  moche  of  pouder  CaneH,  And  lete 
it  cole  ;  then  put  hit  in  a  box,  And  strawe  pouder  ginger  and  caneli  there-on  : 
And  hit  is  co»«fortable  for  a  mannys  body,  And  namely^  fore  the  Stomak. 
And  if  thou  lust  to  make  it  white,  leue  the  hony.  And  take  so  mocli  sugur, 
or  take  part  of  j>e  one  and  part  of  j>e  ojier/  Also  in  this  forme  thou  may  make 
chard  warden. 

1  specially. 


108 


ASHMOLE  MS.   1439.     SAUCES. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE  PAGE 

Sauces  piir  diuerse  viaundes :  ChaudouH  108  Sauce  for  shulder  of  moton  ....  110 

Sauce  alepeuere 108  Sauce  vert 110 

Sauce  galentjaie 108  Surelle 110 

Sauce  gingyutT 109  Sauce  peccely 110 

Sauce  for  a  gos 109  Sauce  gauncile 110 

Sauce  camelyne 109  Piper  for  feel  and  for  venyso!<w  ...  110 

"  Sauce  rous 109  White  sauce  for  capons  y-sode  .     .     .  110 

Sauce  for  stokefysshe 109  Black  sauce  for  capouws  y-rostyde  .     .  110 

Sauce  for  stokfysshe  in  an-other  maner .  109  Sauce  newe  for  malardis 110 

Sauce  for  peiouws 109 

'Sauces  pur  diuerse  viaundes.  Chaudouw. — Take  gysers,  and  lyuers, 
and  hert*  of  Swanne ;  and  if  ]>e  guttys  ben  fat*,  slyf  them,^  and  caste  J^em 
]ier-to,  and  boile  ]>em.  in  faire  watre :  and  )?anne  take  J^em  up,  and  hew  jieva. 
smal,  and  thanne  caste  Jiem  in-to  j^e  same  broj^e,  (but  strayne  hit  ];urgh  a 
straynour  firste) ;  and  caste  ]>er-to  poudre  peper,  canel,  and  vynegre,  and 
salt*,  and  lete  boile.  And  Jeanne  take  the  blode  of  the  Swanne,  and  freysshe 
bro]?,  and  brede,  and  draw  j^em  j^urwe  a  straynour,  and  cast*  ]>er-to  ;  and  lete 
boile  to-gedre.  And  J^enne  take  poudre  of*  gyngere,  whanne  hit*  is  al-moste 
y-now,  &  put*  ])er-to,  and  serue  forth. ^ 

Sauce  alepeuere. — Take  fayre  broun  brede,  teste  hit,  and  stepe  it*  in 
vinegre,  and  drawe  it*  jjurwe  a  str«ynour ;  and  put*  j>er-to  garleke  smal 
y-stampyd,  poudre  piper,  salt,  &  serue  iorth. 

Sauce  galentyne. — Take  faire  crustej  of*  broun  brede,  stepe  \em  in 
vinegre,  and  put*  \er-io  poudre  canel,  and  lete  it*  stepe  j^er-wy]'  til  it  be 
brouu;  and  ]7anne  drawe  it  J^urwe  a  straynowr  .ij.  tymes  or  .iij.,  and  Jeanne 

^  If.  36.  ^  clence  thaym^  added  after  them  in  different  ink. 

3  wiih  the  swan,  added  in  different  ink. 


COOKERY    BOOK    III.   ASHMOLE    1439.   SAUCES    FOR   STOKFISH,  ETC.       109 

put  )'er[to]  poudre  piper  and  salte :   &  lete  it*  be  sumwhaf  stondynge,  and 
not  to  Ijynne,  &  serue  forth. 

Sauce  gingyner. — Take  white  brede,  stepe  if  •wi]>  vynegre,  and  draw  it 
.ij.  or  .iij.  tymes  Jiurj  a  straynour;  and  thanne  put  ]>er-to^  poudre  gingere, 
and  scrue  forj^e. 

Sauce  for  a  gos. — Take  percelye,  grapis,  clowes  of  garleke,  and  salte, 
and  put*  it  in  ]>e  goos,  and  lete  roste.  And  whanne  J^e  goos  is  y-now,  schake 
out*  Jiat*  is  wij'-in,  and  put  al  in  a  mortre,  and  do  ])er-to  .iij.  harde  jolkes  of" 
egges ;  and  grynd  al  to-gedre,  and  tempre  if  \"p  wi]?  various,  and  caste  it* 
upon  the  goos  in  a  faire  chargeour,  &  so  seme  if  iorth. 

Sauce  camelyne. — ^Take  faire  brede,  and  cut^  if,  and  toste  it;  and  take 
vynegre  and  wyne,  and  stepe  hit*  J^^^r-in,  and  draw  it  Jjurwe  a  straynour  wij? 
poudre  canel,  and  draw  it  .ij.  or  .iij.  tymes,  til  it  be  smothe.  And  Jeanne 
take  poudre  ginger,  sugre,  and  poudre  of  clowes,  and  cast  ]>er-to.  And  loke 
fiaf  if  stonde  wil  by  clowes,  &  by  sugre ;  and  Jeanne  puf  ]7er-to  a  litil 
safroune,  and  salt,  and  serue  bit  for]?  Jiicke  y-nowe. 

Sauce  rous. — Take  brede,  and  broyl  it  vpon  J^e  colons,  and  make  it 
broune,  and  ley  hif  in  vynegre,  and  lete  if  stepe ;  and  Jeanne  take  piper, 
canel  and  notemyggej,  and  a  fewe  of  clowes,  and  casf  if  to-gedre  in-to  a 
mortre ;  and  take  J^e  brede  ouf  of  J^e  vynegre,  and  bray  Jjer-wy}".  And 
whanne  if  is  y-brayd  y-now,  tempre  if  wytli  wyne  and  vinegre,  and  draw 
if  JiurgB  a  straynour  as  ]70u  woldiste  galyntyne. 

Sauce  for  stokefysshe. — Take  faire  broj^e  of  elys,  o]>er  of  pyke,  or  els  of" 
freysshe  Samon,  and  strayne  it  Jiurwe  a  straynour :  and  take  faire  percely, 
and  hewe  if  smal,  and  put  }7e  brojie  and  J'C  -percele  in-to  a  faire  erj^yn  vessel ; 
and  put  l^er-to  poudre  gingere,  and  a  litil  verious,  &  lete  boile  to-gedre. 
And  ]>anne  take  faire  sode  stockefysehe,  and  ley  it  in  faire  bote  watre :  and 
whanne  Jjou  wilt  serue  it  for];e,  take  j^e  fysshe  fro  j^e  watre,  and  ley  it  in  a 
clene  disshe ;  &  cast  ])e  sauce  al  bote  fer-on,  and  serue  it  forth. 

Sauce  for  stokfysshe  in  an-other  maner. — Take  curnylles  of  walnotys, 
and  clouys  of  garleke,  and  piper,  brede,  and  salf  ,■  and  caste  al  in  a  morter ; 
and  grynde  it  smal,  &  tempre  if  up  vfi])  ]>e  same  brojie  j^af  ]7e  fysshe  was 
sode  in,  and  serue  if  forjie. 

^  Sauce  for  peiouws. —  Take  percely,  oynouws,  garleke,  and  salf,  and 
mynce  smal  the  percely  and  J^e  oynou?is,  and  grynde  ]>e  garleke,  and  temper  it 
wi]7  vynegre  y-now :  and  mynce  ]>e  rostid  peiouHS  and  cast  the  sauce  ]>er-on 
a-boute,  and  serue  if  {orth. 

1  salt,  added  in  different  ink.  '  If.  36  bk,  ^  If.  37.     Heading  in  margin. 


110      COOKERY    BOOK    III.    ASHMOLE    1439.    SAUCES    FOR   VENISON,  ETC. 

Sauce  for  shulder  of  moton. — Take  p^rcely,  and  oynons,  and  mynce  ]>em 
and  ]>e  rostyde  shulder  of  Moton ;  and  take  vynegre,  and  poudre  gingere, 
salt,  and  cast^  a-pon  fe  mynced  shulder,  and  ete  hym  so. 

Sauce  vert. — Take  percely,  myntes,  diteyne,  peletre,  a  foil  or  .ij.  of*  cost^- 
marye,  a  clone  of  garleke.  And  take  faire  brede,  and  stepe  it  with  vynegre 
and  piper,  and  salt*;  and  grynde  al  this  to-gedre,  and  tempre  it  vp  -wi]) 
■wynegre,  or  wi)'  eisel,  and  serue  it*  forj^e. 

Surelle. — Take  Surel,  wasche  hit,  grynde  it*,  put*  a  litil  salt*,  ]jer-to,  and 
strayne  hit*,  and  serue  for^A. 

Sauce  p^rcely. — Take  percely,  and  grynde  hit*  wi]?  vynegre  &  a  litel 
brede  and  salt*,  and  strayne  it*  J'urgli  a  straynour,  and  serue  if  forj^e. 

Sauce  gauncile. — Take  floure  and  cowe  mylke,  safroune  wel  y-grounde, 
garleke,^  and  put  in-to  a  faire  litel  pot*;  and  sej^e  it*  ouer  J7e  fia-e,  and  serue 
it*  forthe.2 

Piper  for  feel  and  for  Yenysotm. — Take  brede,  and  frye  it*  in  grece,  draw 
it  vp  wi]7  broj^e  and  vinegre :  caste  J^er-to  poudre  piper,  and  salt,  sette  on  ]>e 
fire,  boile  it*,  and  melle  it*  forj^e. 

White  sauce  for  capons  y-sode.  —  Take  almoundis  y-blaunchid,  and 
grynde  J?em  al  to  douste ;  tempre  it*  up  wi]?  verious  and  poudre  of  gingere, 
and  melle  it*  forjie. 

Black  sauce  for  capouws  y-rostyde. — Take  fe  Lyuer  of*  capouns,  and 
roste  hit  wel ;  take  anyse,  and  grynde  parysgingere,  and  canel,  and  a  litil 
^cruste  of*  brede,  and  grynde  hit*  weH  aH  to-gedre ;  tempre  hit  up  wi]? 
verious,  and  ]>e  grece  of  the  capon,  Jeanne  boile  it*  and  serue  for]?e. 

Sauce  newe  for  malardis. — Take  brede,  and  blode  y-boilid,  and  grynde  it 
to-gedere,  and  draw  Jjurw  a  clo]?  withe  vynegre ;  do  ]?er-to  poudre  gyngere, 
and  piper,  and  ]?e  grece  of  the  malarde;  salt*  it*  and  boile,  and  melle  it 
forthe. 

^  peper,  salt,  added  in  different  ink.  ^  with  the  goos,  added.  ^  If.  37  bk. 


Ill 


LAUD  MS.  553  (BODLEIAN  LIBRARY). 


CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Pejureguson 112 

Amendment  of  salt  mete 112 

For  to  make  amydon 112 

Teste  de  cure 112 

Sweteblanche 112 

[Rischewys  close  ?] 112 

Bukenade 113 

Cyuele 113 

Caiidele 113 

Saug  sarastT 113 

Pape 113 

Egredoucetcs 113 

Figee 113 

Pomesmoille 113 

Rys  moilles 113 

Apple  moys 113 

Soupes  dorrees 114 

Peys  de  almayne 114 

Tauorsay 114 

Haddoke  in  Cyuee 114 

Chauudon  of  fissh 114 

Mortrowes  of  fissh 114 

BlaumangCT-  of  fissh 114 

Potage  of  ris      .     .     .• 114 

Numbles 114 


112 


LAUD  MS.  553  (BODLEIAIsr  LIBRARY). 


^Peynregusofi. — 'Nym  resons  &  do  out  ye  stones,  and  bray  it  in  a  morter 
■with  pepir  &  gingiuer,  &  salt  and  wastel  bred ;  tempre  hit  with  wyn,  boille 
hit,  dresse  hit  forth. 

Amendement  of  salt  mete. — Tuk  a  fare  lynne  clout  /  &  do  therynne 
a  disshful  of  ote-mele,  byne  hit,  &  hange  it  in  thy  pot  dou?i  to  ye  boteme. 
Set  it  from  ye  fuyr  &  let  hit  kele  /  suththe  set  hit  ajen  to  ye  inyr  /  & 
drflwe  out  thy  clout  &  that  is  goude. 

For  to  make  amydon). — JN'ym  whete  at  midsomer  /  &  salt,  &  do  it  in 
a  faire  vessel  /  do  water  therto,  that  thy  whete  be  yheled  /  let  it  stonde 
ix  days  &  ix  ny^t,  &  eueryeday  whess  wel  thy  "svhete  /  &  at  ye  ix  days 
ende  bray  hit  wel  in  a  mort<?r  /  &  drie  hit  tojenst  ye  sonne  /  do  it  in  a  faii'e 
vessel  /  &  kouere  hit  fort,  thou  wil  it  note. 

Teste  de  cure. — ^J^  rys,  whas  hem  /  drie  hem  /  &  bray  hem  al  to  doust 
in  a  mortd?r,  &  amydon  thi?rwith :  tempre  it  vp  with  almand  mylk  /  cast 
therto  poudur  and  safrofi  /  &  sugur  /  nym  luys,  turbot.  and  elys  /  &  gobete 
hem  in  mosselys,  &  sauge  &  perceli  /  mak  coffyns  of  thi  past  /  do  thy  fissh 
therynne ;  cast  aboue  goud  -poudur  &  sugur ;  kerue  it,  bake  it,  and  jif 
hit  forth. 

Sweteblanche. — Nym  chikons  or  hennes,  skald  hem,  drawe  hem  in 
morselys,  &  seth  hem  with  good  beofe.  njm  yolkes  of  eyren  ysoden  hard  / 
&'almawde  mylk,  and  grind  to-gedere  /  nym  ye  floures  of  ye  rede  vyne,  & 
salt,  &  bray  al  in  a  morter  :  boille  hit  /  nym  thy  chikons  or  thy  hen,  ondo 
hem  in  disshes,  do  thy  sewe  aboue  /  &  also  myjt  thou  do  fissh  days  with 
lyuere  of  turbut  or  of  other  manere  fissh  with  almand  mylke. 

^  [Ryschewys  close?]. — Nym  fiour  and  eyren,  &  kned  to-gedere /nym  figus, 
resons,  &  dates,  &  do  out  ye  stonys,  &  blanchid  almandis,  &  goud  poudwr, 
1  If .  5.  *  If.  5b. :  see  p.  55, 


COOKERY    BOOK   IV.    LAUD    553.    (bOULEIAN).    CAUDLE,    APPLES.       113 

&  hraj  to-gedere  /  make  cofiyns  of  ye  lengthe  of  a  spanne  /  do  thy  farsour 
therynne,  in  eu^rych  cake  his  porcioii)  /  plie  hem  &  boille  hem  in  water  / 
&  suththe  roste  hem  on  a  gridel  &  jif  forth. 

Bukenade.' — Nym  fressh  flessh,  what  it  eu^^re  be.  Seth  hit  w/t/i  goud 
beof,  cast  therto  mynsed  oynons  &  good  spicerie,  &  lie  hit  with  eyren, 
&  jif  hit  forth. 

Cyuele. — Nym  almandes,  Sug?<r  &  salt,  &  payn  de  mayn,  &  bmy  he???  in 
a  mortar  /  do  th(?/"to  ejreii,  frie  hit  in  oylle  or  in  grese,  cast  theron  sngiir, 
&  jif  hit  forth. 

Caudele. — Xym  eyren,  &  swcng  wel  to-gedere  /  chauf  ale  &  do  therto  /  lie 
it  with  araydon),  do  th<?rto  a  porcioii)  of  sug?<r,  or  a  perty  of  hony,  &  a  perti 
of  safroiD  ;  boille  hit,  &  jif  hit  forth. 

Saug  ssira,ser.- — Tak  Almandes,  frye  he???  in  oille,  &  br«y  he?/?,  tempre  hem 
w?t/?  almand  mylke  &  red  wy«,  &  ye  thrudde  perty  shal  be  sugur  /  &  if  hit 
be  nojt  thikke  ynow,  lie  it  with  amydoii)  or  wt'th  &our  de  rys ;  colo?<r  hit 
with  alkinet,  boille  hit,  dresse  it,  florissh  hit  aboue  with  pomme-gamet, 
and  jif  forth. 

Rape. — jS'ym  luyss  or  tenge,  or  other  mane?'e  fissh  /  frye  h?t  in  oille  de 
olyue ;  ny??i  crostes  of  whyt  bred,  resons,  &  canele,  brrty  hit,  te???pre  it 
vp  with  good  wyn,  drawe  it  thorw  a  colon?<r  /  let  hit  be  al  ycoloured 
with  canele,  boille  hit,  cast  th£'?'to  clous,  maces,  and  quibibes,  do  thi  fissh  in 
thi  disshfs,  &  thi  rape  aboue,  messe  h/t,  &  jif  forth. 

^Egredoucetes. — Tak  luyjs  or  tenges,  kerf  he???  in  mosselis,  fri  he???  in 
oille :  ny???  vynegre  /  &  ye  thrudde  p«?'ty  sugwr,  mynce  oynons,  &  boille 
smal,  &  clous,  maces,  &  qibibus,  &  dresse  hit  forth. 

Figee. — Xym  figes,  «S:  boille  he???  in  wyn,  &  hmj  hem  in  a  morter  with 
lied  bred  ;  tempre  hit  vp  w?t7?  goud  wyn  /  boille  it  /  do  therto  good  spicere, 
&  hole  resons  /  dresse  hit  /  florisshe  it  a-boue  with  pomme-garnetes. 

PomesmoiUe. — Nym  rys  &  br«y  he???  in  a  morti?r,  tempre  he?w  vp  w/th 
alma??de  milke,  boille  he??? :  nym  appelis  &  kerue  hem  as  small  as  douste, 
cast  he???  yn  after  ye  boilly??g,  &  sug??r  :  colo?<r  hit  with  safron,  cast  therto 
goud  poudre,  &  jif  hit  forth. 

Rys  mollies. — Nym  rys,  bray  he???,  tempre  vp  with '  almand  mylke  : 
boiH  hem,  cast  therto  sug«r  /  &  salt  hit,  &  dresse  hit  forth. 

Apple  moys. — Nym  appeles,  seth  he???,  let  he???  kele,  frete  he???  thorvre  an 
her  syue  :  cast  it  on  a  pot  /  &  on  a  fless  day  cast  therto  goud  fat  broth  of  bef, 
^  JIS.  Dukenade.  ^  i.e.  Sauce  Sarrasine.  ^  If.  6. 


114         COOKERY    BOOK    IV.    LAUD    553.    (BODLEIAn).    PEASE,    FISH. 

&  white  grese,  sug?<r  &  safron),  &  on  fissh  days  almand  mylke,  &  oille  de 
oliue,  &  sugMr,  &  safron) :  boille  hit,  messe  hit,  cast  aboue  good  poudre,  & 
jif  forth. 

Soupes  dorrees. — Nym  oynons,  mynce  hem,  frie  hetn  in  oille  de  olyue : 
nym  oyno«s,  boille  he»»  with  wyn,  tost  whit  bred,  &  do  it  in  dishes  /  and 
cast  almand  mylke  theron),  &  ye  wyn  &  ye  oynons  aboue,  &  gif  hit  forth. 

'Peys  de  almayne. — Nym  white  peson  &  boille  hem  /  &  thanne  tak  hem 
vp,  &  wash  hem  clene  in  cold  water,  fort  that  ye  holys  go  of  :  do  hem  in  a 
clene  pot  /  do  water  therto  thfft  hit  be  a-wese  /  let  hem  sethe  vppon)  colys  / 
th«t  ther  be  no  lye  /  couere  thi  pot  /  that  ther  go  no  breth  out  /  whenne 
hit  beth  ysode,  do  hem  in  a  morter  &  br«y  hem  smal,  tempre  hem  vp  with 
almawde  milke,  &  with  flowr  de  rys,  do  therto  safron  &  salt,  &  boille  hit 
&  dresse  hit  forth. 

Tauorsay. — IS'ym  ye  bed  of  ye  codlyng  &  ye  liuere,  &  pike  out  ye  bones  / 
cast  therto  gond  poudre  of  piper  &  gyngiuer,  and  gif  forth. 

Haddoke  in  Cyuee. — Shal  be  yopened  &  ywasshe  clene  /  &  ysode  & 
yrosted  on  a  gi'idel ;  grind  peper  &  saffron),  bred  &  ale  /  mynce  oynons,  fri 
hem  in  ale,  &  do  therto,  and  salt :  boille  hit,  do  thyn  haddok  in  plateres,  & 
thi  ciuey  aboue,  &  jif  forth. 

Chauudon)  of  fissh. — Nym  ye  liuere  &  ye  poke.  Seth  hit,  hakke  hit  smal/ 
gri?id  paper  &  safron,  bred  &  ale,  tempre  hit  with  ye  broth  /  boille  hit,  do 
salt  therto,  &  messe  hit  forth. 

Mortrowes  of  fissh. — Tak  ye  rowys  of  fissh  /  &  ye  liuere,  seth  hit,  hakke 
hit,  gri?Kl  paper,  bred  &  ale,  tempre  hit  -with  ye  broth  :  do  salt  therto,  boille 
hit,  &  messe  hit  forth. 

Blaumanger  of  fissh. — Nym  a  pond  of  ris,  seth  hern  fort  hit  berste,  let 
hem  kale  :  cast  therto  mylk  of  two  pond  of  almandes  /  nym  ye  perch  other 
ye  loppestere  or  drie  haddok,  tese  therto,  and  boille  hit  /  cast  therto  sug«<r, 
&  ^if  forth. 

Potage  of  ris. — Nym  ye  ris,  whess  hem  clene,  seth  hawi  fort  hit  breke : 
let  hem  kele,  do  therto  almand  mylke,  other  of  kyn,^  colo?<r  it  wetA  safron), 
salt  hit,  &  jif  forth. 

Numbles. — Shall  be  ywhess  clene  in  water  &  salt,  &  ysode  in  water  /  nym 
[^Cetera  desunt']. 

J  If.  &b.  *  i.e.  kine:  cow  milk. 


115 


RECIPES  FROM  DOUCE  MS.  55, 

Ab.  1450  AD. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE  PAGE 

Oyle  Soppes Ixiij.  115  Bitore  roste Cxj.  116 

Capon  en  Counfyt     ....  Cij.  115  Egrett  rost       Cxij.  116 

Cokentrice        Ciij.  115  Plouer  rost Cxix.  117 

Crane  roste Cvij.  116  Snyte  rost Cxx.  117 

Fesaunt  rost Cviij.  116  Sturgeon  buille  ou  turbiitt .     .     Cxlvj.  117 

Heron  rost Cx.  116  Charlette Clxxviij.  117 

^  Oyle  Soppes.  CsLpifuIum  Ixiiij. — Take  and  buille  mylke,  and  take 
yolk  as  of  eyren)  tryed  fro  the  white,  and  draw  hem  ;  then  cast  to  the  milke 
and  hete  it,  butt  lete  it  nat  buille,  &  '  styrre  it  well  tiH  it  be  summe-whate 
thikke  :  then  cast  ther-to  sugre  and  salte,  and  cutt  feyre  paynemayne  in 
soppes,  &  cast  the  soppes  there-on,  &  seme  it  forth  in  maner  of  potage. 

^  Capon)  en  Couwfyt.  ^  Ca,2^itulum  cij. — Take  fressh  broth,  and  wyn), 
&  persely,  &  saverey,  and  a  liteH  sauge,  and  lete  buille  to-gedrys :  and 
crome  ther-to  herde  ^yolkes  of  eyreu)  tyH  it  be  well  thykke,  and  kest 
ther-to  pouudre  of  gyngeuere  y-nogh,  &  vertious,  and  salt,  and  saffron) ;  and 
take  a  good  rosted  capon),  &  ley  hym  in  a  chargeur,  &  ryse  the  legges  and 
the  wynges,  butt  [set]  ham  nott  fro  the  body ;  and  kest  on  the  capoii)  the 
licoMr  aH  hotte,  &  seme  it  forth. 

^  Cokentrice.  ^  Csipttulum.  ciij. — Scalde  a  capon)  clen),  &  smyte  hem 
in-to  the  wast  oueretwarde,  and  scaude  a  pygge,  and  draw  hym,  &  smyte 
hym  in  the  same  maner ;  and  then  sewe  the  f orthyr  parte  of  the  capon)  and 
the  hyndyr  parte  of  the  pygge  to-gedrys,  and  the  forther  parte  of  the  pygge 
^and  the  hynder  parte  of  the  capon)  to-gedyr:  then  draw  the  whyte  &  the 
yolkes  of  eyren),  and  cast  ther-to,  and  svette  of  a  schepe,  and  saffron),  &  salt, 
and  pouudre  of  gyngeuere,  and  grated  brede ;  and  medle  aH  to-gedre  with  thyii 
1  If.  34J.  2  If.  475.  3  If.  48. 


116      COOKERY    BOOK    V.    DOUCE    55.    ROAST    CRANE    AND    HERON,    ETC. 

honde,  and  putt  it  in  the  cokentrice,  and  putt  it  on  a  spite,  and  roste  hem  •, 
and  endore  hem  with  yolkes  of  eyren),  and  pouudre  of  gyngeuere,  and  saffron), 
&  ioissB  of  pe?-sely  or  malves,  &  draw  hem,  and  endore  hem  aH  abowte  in 
euery  perty  of  hym). 

^  Crane  roste.  Ca,pituh(m  C.vij. — Take  a  crane,  and  cutt  hym  in  the  rofe 
of  the  mouth,  and  lete  him  blede  to  deth :  and  cast  a-wey  the  blode,  and 
schalde  hym,  &  draw  hym  vndyrthe  wynge  or  att  the  vent,  &  folde  vpp  hys 
legges  att  the  kneys  vndir  the  thye ;  &  cutt  of  the  wyngys  next  iunte  the 
body,^  and  lete  hym  haue  hys  heuede  &  hys  necke  on  ;  saue  take  awey  the 
wesyng,  ^and  wynde  the  necke  a-boute  the  spyte,  and  bynde  hit,  &  putt 
the  bille  in  the  body  and  the  golett ;  and  reyse  the  wynges  and  the  legges  as 
of  a  gose ;  and  yiff  ]>ou.  schalt  sauce  hym,  mynce  hym  fyrst,  and  sauce  hym 
withe  pouudre  of  pepyr,  and  gyngeucre  &  mustarde,  vynegre  &  salt,  and 
serue  hym  forth. 

^  Fesaunt  rost.  CsipUuhm  cviij. — Lete  a  fesaunt  blode  in  the  mouth, 
and  lete  hym  blede  to  deth ;  &  pulle  hym,  and  draw  hym,  &  kutt  a-wey  the 
necke  by  the  body,  &  the  legges  by  the  kne,  &  perbuille  hym,  &  larde  hym, 
and  putt  the  knese  in  the  vent :  and  rost  hym,  &  reise  hjm  vpp,  hys  legges 
&  hys  wynges,  ^as  off  an  henne;  &  no  sauce  butt  salt. 

Heron)  rost.  %  Ca/;«Y2</«in  ex. — Take  an  heron),  &  lete  hym  blode  in  the 
moutli  as  an  crane,  &  scalde  hym  &  draw  hym  att  the  vent  as  a  crane ; 
and  cutt  awey  the  booii)  of  the  necke,  &  folde  the  necke  a-boute  the  *  spite, 
and  putt  the  hede  ynne  att  the  golet  as  a  crane  ;  &  brcke  awey  the  boon) 
fro  the  kne  to  the  fote,  and  lete  the  skyn  be  stille,  and  cutt  the  wyng  att  the 
Joj'ute  next  the  body,  and  putt  hem  on  a  spite  :  and  bynde  hys  legges  to 
the  spyte  with  the  skynne  of  the  legges,  &  lete  rost,  &  reyse  the  legges  and 
the  wynges  as  of  a  crane,  and  sauce  hym  w?t/i  vynegre,  and  mustard, 
and  pouudre  of  gyngeuere,  &  sett  hym  forth. 

^  Bitore  roste.  Cajntuhim.  cxj.  —  Slee  a  bytowr  in  the  moutfi  as  an 
heron),  &  draw  hym  as  an  henne,  and  fold  vppe  hys  legges  as  a  crane ;  & 
lete  the  wynges  be  on,  &  take  the  booii)  of  the  *  necke  aH  awey  as  of  an 
heron)  :  &  putt  the  hedde  in  the  golet  or  in  the  shuldre,  and  rost  hjm  ;  and 
ryse  the  legges  &  the  wynges  as  )70u  dost  of  an  heron,  &  no  sauce  butt  salt : 
&  sett  hym  forth. 

Egrett  rost.     Cdipituhivi  cxij. — Breke  an  egrettes  nekke,  or  cut  the  rofe 

^  i.e.  cut  off  the  wings  at  the  joint  next  to  the  body. 

2  If.  50.  3  If,  50J.  4  If.  51.  5  If.  51J. 


COOKERY    BOOK    V.    DOUCE    55.    SNIPE,    STURGEON,    CHARLETE.       117 

of  hys  moutli,  as  of  a  crane,  &  scalde  h.jm,  and  draw  hym  as  an  henne ;  & 
cutt  of  hys  wynges  by  the  body,  and  the  heued  &  the  necke  by  the  body, 
&  folde  hys  legges  as  a  bitore,  &  rest  hym  :   &  no  sauce  butt  salt. 

^  Plouer  rost.  ^  Capitulum  Cxix. — Breke  the  skulle  of  a  plouere,  & 
pull  hy/;j  drye,  and  draw  hywj  as  a  chike,  and  cutte  the  legges  and  the 
wynges  by  the  body,  and  the  heued  and  necke  ali-so,  &  roste  hym,  and  vejae 
the  legges  and  wynges  as  an  henne :  and  no  sauce  butt  salt. 

^  Snyte  rost.  ^  Csipttulum  Cxx. — Slee  a  snyte  as  a  ^Aonere,  &  lete  hys 
necke  be  hole  saue  the  ^wesyng;  and  lete  hys  heuede  be  on,  and  putt  it  in 
the  schuldre,  and  folde  vppe  his  legges  as  a  crane,  &  cutt  his  wynges  and 
roste  hym,  &  reyse  hys  legges  and  wynges  as  an  henne  ;  &  no  sauce  butt  salt. 

^^  Sturgeon)  buille  ou  turbutt.  ^  C&pifuhim  Cxlvj.  Draw  a  t«rbutt 
or  a  sturgeon),  and  chyn)  hym,  &  cutt  them)  in  brode  pecis ;  and  buille 
hem  in  water  and  salt  y-nogh,  and  seme  hym  forth  colde,  a  pece  or  too  in 
a  dissli  w«'t/i  vert  sauce :  and  cast  persely  leves  wette  in  vynegre  on  hym. 

^  Charlete.  ^  CsLvitulum  Clxxviij.  —  Setli  melke  yn  a  pott  and  cast 
ther-to  salt  and  saffron) ;  &  hew  feyre  buttes  of  calues  or  of  porke  small,  and 
cast  ther-to  :  and  draw  the  white  &  yolkes  of  eyren),  and  cast  to  the  licour 
when  it  builleth,  and  a  litcH  ale,  and  stirre  it  tiH  it  crudde.  and  yiffe  j>oii 
wilt  haue  it  forced,  hete  milke  scaldyng  hoote,  and  cast  ther-to  rawe  yolkes 
of  eyren)  and  poudj'e  of  gyngeuere,  and  sugre  &  clowcs  &  maces,  &  lete  natt 
fully  buille  ;  and  press  the  cruddes  in  feyre  ^  lenyn)  cloth,  &  lessli  it,  &  ley 
too  or  thre  lesshes  in  a  dissli :  &  cast  the  farsyng  ther-on,  &  serue  it 
forth  bote. 

1  If  53J.  2  if_  605.  3  If,  76. 


119 


GLOSSARY   AND   MDEX. 


[The  following  works  are  referred  to  : — Forme  of  Cury  ;  Liler  Cure  Cocorum ; 
Ancient  Cookeries  in  Waenee,  Antiquitates  Culinarice  (1791);  Napier, 
Nvhle  Bake  of  Cookry  (1882) ;  E.  Holme,  Academy  of  Armory  (1678); 
CoTGKATE,  French  Diet.  (1611);  Godefeoy,  Bid.  de  I'Anc.  Lanyue 
Franc;  Murray,  Fny.  Bid.  (1885,  etc.).  The  thick  type  shews 
Eecipes  that  are  in  this  volume ;  italics  shew  recipes  in  the  Banquets, 
but  if  in  inverted  commas,  the  recipe  is  quoted  from  another  Cookery. 
The  spelling  of  the  other  Cookeries  has  been  corrected,  where  needful.] 


A-boue,  adv.^  14,  17  ;  A-bouen,  29  ; 
A-bouyn,  14,  21,  35,  54  ;  A-boue, 
prep.,  54  ;  A-bouyn,  54.     Above. 

Aboujte,  adv.,  73  ;  A-bowte.  21,  29, 
31  ;  Abought,  prep.,  78  ;  A-bowte, 
31,  54.     About  ;  round. 

Abowe,  vh.t.,  79.     Bow;  bend. 

A-brode,  adv..  Caste  al  a-brode, 
holdyu  a-brode,  7,  92.  Abroad ;  about; 
stretched  out. 

Abyndou??,  sh.,  20.     See  Amidoim. 

A-chatry,  67.  Acatery ;  provisions 
bought. 

Acord,  sb.,  Be  hys  owne  acord,  of 
itself,  17. 

A-cordant,  adj.,  60.  Accordant ;  in 
accordance. 

A-doun,  adv.,  17,  54 ;  Adown,  7. 
Down, 

A-force,  vh.t.,  \fith  Sugre  or  hony, 
55,  with  spices,  29  ;  A-force,  pp.,  3  ; 
A-forse,  17.  Afforce  ;  season,  make 
substantial.  This  is  the  Fr.  enforcer, 
see  Porcelle  farce  enforce,  on  page 
58.  The  word  enforcer  is  still  used 
of  a  person  growing  fat :  and  force 
is  applied  in  England  for  fattening 
animals  ;  see  Halliwell.  Compare 
next  word  ;  pork  and  oatmeal  being 
used  to  the  Gruel. 


A-forcyd,  pp.  1,  Charlet  a.  ryally, 
17  ;  Doucettes  a.,  55  ;  Chawettys 
a-forsed,  46  ;  Kyde  a-Forsyde,  41  ; 
Gruelle  a-forsydde,  6. 

Aftyrward,  21,  Afterward. 

Ale,  sb.,  11,  13,  16,  86,  Stale  Ale, 
12,  96,  New  ale,  10  ;  Sethe  Fygys  in 
Ale,  43  ;  Ale  draft,  19,  Ale  dregs,  or 
bottoms  ;  Ale  yeest,  96,  Ale  jest,  44, 
Ale  yeast. 

Alegere,  sb.,  28.    Alegar;  ale  vinegar. 

Alkenade,  sb.,  29,  30,  31,  48  ;  Alki- 
net,  113.     Alkanet. 

Al  to-broke,  85,  Alle  to-broke,  44 ; 
Al  to-choppe,  41 ,  Alle  to-choppe,  20, 
34,  Alle  to-choppyd,  41  ;  Alle  to-falle, 
32.     Quite  broken,  chopped,  etc. 

Allemaundys,  sb.,  10  ;  Alman),  18  ; 
AlmaHde  mylke,  30,  112  ;  Almandys, 
1  ;  Caudell  de  Almondes,  96,  Caw- 
deUe  de  Almaunde,  16,  see  F.  of  C. 
87,  '"'' Cawdel  of  xilmaund  inylk" ; 
Almaunde  mylke,  11,  14,  21,  26  ; 
Almaundis,  56 ;  Almaundys,  9,  13, 
15,  16,  Fride  Creme  of  A.,  7,  91, 
see  F.  of  C,  No.  85,  '■'Creme  of 
Ahnaundes,"  Warner,  p.  69,  '■' Crem 
of  almonde  mylk "  ;  Almondes,  88, 
90,  91,  Froyte  de  almondes,  91, 
Froyde  almoundys,  7,  Cheaut  de 


120 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY    COOKERY    BOOKS. 


Almondes,  96,  see  Napier,  p.  76, 
'■'■  Hoot  milk  of  a.,"  and  ^^  Cold  mylk 
of  a."  also  "Douce  MS.  No.  160. 
"  Chaud  let  dalmandes."  Almonds. 
Almaunden,  adj.,  17.  Almond;  of 
almonds  :  there  should  be  no  comma 
after  it. 
Almaynne,  Hagas  de,  44,  Hagas  de 
almondes  84  ;  Bruet  of  Almaynne, 
19,  Bruet  of  A.  in  lente,  19  ; 
Peys  de  Almayne,  114.  These  are 
possibly  all  German  dishes,  but 
Allemagne  and  Almonds  got  con- 
founded, as  in  the  first  two  recipes, 
which  are  the  same  dish,  and  have 
almonds  in  them. 

Almonds,  see  Allemaundys. 

Along,  adv.,  Datys  y-taylid  a-loug, 
lengthwise,  27. 

Aloes  de  Roo,  61 ;  Allowes  de  Mutton, 
83  ;  Alows  de  Beef  or  de  Motown, 
40  ;  Alowys,  3.  See  Warner,  p. 
74,  "  Alau7ide7-  of  moton"  and  "  o/ 
beef";  Napier,  p.  29,  '■'■  Alander  de 
moton"  p.  30,  '■'■Alander  de  beef." 
CoTGR.,  "  Jfo^^aw  de  bceuf.  A  short 
rib  of  beefe,  or  the  fleshie  end  of 
the  rib,  diuided  from  the  rest,  and 
rosted."    Compare  a  mutton-chop. 

A-lye,  vb.t.,  13,  17,  19.  Allay; 
mix  :  Fr.  Allat/er,  Cotgr.     See  £>/. 

Amendement  of  salt  mete,  112. 

Amidons,  sb.,  16;  For  to  make 
Amydon,  112  ;  Amyndons,  22  ; 
Amyndouw,  28.  Fr.  Amidoii,  Wheat 
flour,  steeped,  strained,  and  dried  in 
the  sun  :  see  L.C.C.,  -p.  7,  Napier, 
p.  101. 

A-morwe,  33,  37.  Amorrow;  next 
morning. 

An,  cotij.,  passim.     And. 

Aneward,  adv.,  34.     Onward  ;  on  it. 

Aneys,  sb.,  53  ;  in  comfyte,  32 ;  Anys 
in  comfyte,  8,  10,  28.     Anise. 

Apofi,  prep.,  92.     Upon. 

Appeles,  sb.,  113;  Appelis,  113; 
Appelys,  16,  20  ;  Appil,  38  ;  Apple 
mose,  2,  or  Apple  muse,  20  ;  Apple 
moys,  113  ;  see  Warner,  II.  17,  35, 
Prompt.  Parv.,  p.  13,  '■'■  Apidmos," 
"  Appidmos,"  Napier,  p.  121,  "  Ap- 
pillmose "  ;  compare  "  Mush,  Any- 
thing mashed,"  Halliwell.     Apple 


moyle,  30,  Pomesmoille,  113,  called 
"Appidmoi/"  in  F.  of  C,  No.  19, 
"  Pommes  moiled,"  or  "  molid  "  in 
Napier,  p.  119,  and  ^^  Pommys  mor- 
les,"  in  Warner,  p.  46,  on  which 
page  there  is  also  "%s  (Rice)  moyle," 
(called  ''Eesmolle"  in  F.  of  C,  96). 
The  moyle,  or  morles,  is  the  French 
Mul,  Molle,  soft.     Applys,  29,  30,  39. 

Applade  Ryalle,  30.  So  called  from 
the  apples  in  it  :  compare  Quynade. 

Appraylere,  39.  See  Cotge.,  "  Ap- 
pareille;  dressed,  cooked,  or  seasoned, 
(as  meat)."     This  dish  is  well  spiced. 

Arbolettys,  20,  Fr.  Eerbelettes,  Small 
herbs  ;  see  F.  of  C,  No.  172,  ''  Erho- 
lates."  The  dish  is  spelt  Arbelettys 
in  A.     See  Herbelade. 

AsmaH,  95.     As  small. 

A-to,  5,  22,  40.     In  two. 

Auence,  sb.,  5  ;  Auens,  69.  Avens  ; 
Benuet. 

A-wese,  114,  A-wash.  See  Over- 
wose,  and  note  4  on  -p.  86. 

Ajen,  adv.,  53,  Again :  Ajenward, 
adv.,  54.     Once  more. 

Bacon,  see  Bahon. 

Bake  Mete,  54  ;  Bake  Mete  Ryalle, 

55  ;  Bake  Metis,  47.     Baked  Meat. 
Baken,  vb.,  54.     Bake. 
Bakke,  sb.,  Al.     Back. 
Bakon,  sb.,  6;  Bakoun,  32.     Bacon. 
Bakyn  mete,  33.     Baked  meat. 
Balloke  brothe,  10,  89.     See  F.  of  C, 

No.  109,  Warner,  p.   68,   Napier, 

p.  86.  This  broth  is  called  '•'■Baloiirgly 

broth  "  in  Warner,  p.  49. 
Banquets,  57,  58,    59,    60,   61,   62, 

63,  67,  68.     See  Forewords. 
Barbel,  104;  BarbeH  boyled,  104. 
Barlyche,  sb.,  37.     Barley. 
Bastard,  sb.,  37.     A  sweet  Spanish 

Wine.     See  Ord.  &  Reg.,  p.  473. 
Bastard,  adj.,  13,  21,  22. 
Basyn,  sb.,  34.     Basin. 
Bater,  sb.,  54,  73;  Batur,  73;  Bature, 

15,  38,  54  ;  Baturys,  39.     Batter. 
Baude,   vb.t.,  76,   105;  Bawde,   18, 

70.     Cut  in  thin  slices  ;  Fr.  barder. 
Be,  prep.,  18,  23,  26.     By. 


GLOSSARY   AND    INDEX. 


121 


Beef  y-Stywyd,  6,  Stwed  Beeflf,  72  ; 
Bef,  34,  Stekys  of  venson  or  bef,  40; 
Beff,  1,  5  ;  Beofe,  112. 

Be-helyd,  pp.,  37.    Bebeled  ;  covered. 

Be-hynde,  jyrf/?.,  14.     Behind. 

Ben,  vl).,  19,  26,  27.     Been;  be. 

Benecodde,  sh.,  48  ;  Bene  koddys,  43. 
Bean-cod. 

Beof,  sh.,  113;  Beofe,  112.     Beef. 

Berde,  sb.,  39.     Beard  ;  brim. 

Bere,  sb.,  49.     Bear. 

Berme,  sb.,  44,  52,  73,  90.  Barm; 
yeast. 

Betayn,  sb.,  69.     Betoiiy. 

Bete,  &b.,  5  ;  Betus,  69.  Beet :  Beets. 

Bete,  vb.,t.  b.  to-gedere  (in  cooking), 
39.     Beat. 

Beterre,  adj.,  33.     Better. 

Be-twene,  prep.,  39 ;  Be-twyn,  39, 54. 
Between. 

Bey,  vb.,  21.     Be. 

Birdys,  Smal,  1,  55;  Bryddys,  9; 
Smal  Byrdys,  52,  Smale  Byrdys 
y-stwyde,  9. 

Bitore  roste,  116;  Bytor  rosted,  79. 
Bittern  :  Fr.  Butor.     See  Bytor. 

Bittern,  see  Bitore. 

Bladys,  sh.,  of  Percely,  35  ;  Barlyche 
&  Percely,  37.     Blades. 

Blake,  adj.,  with  Blode,  38;  Blak 
sugar,  91,  Blake  sugre,  7,  28,  51. 
Black. 

Blamang,  21,  (Flesh),  Blamanger,  85, 
(Flesh),  see  Douce  MB.,  No.  26. 
Warner,  II.  No.  14  and  No.  33,  and 
p.  75,  L.C.C.  p.  9,  F.  of  C,  No.  36 
and  No.  192,  Napier,  p.  102,  '' B.  of 
fiesche  "  ;  Blamanger  of  Fysshe,  23, 
114,  see  L.C.C.,  p.  19,  Napier,  p. 
Ill,  Warner,  p.  46  ;  see  also  p.  55 
"  Blaumanger  to  potage;"  Blaman- 
gere,  2.    Blancmange  ;  Blancmanger, 

Blanche,  adj.,  B.  almondes,  90 
Blanched. 

Blanche,  vb.t.,  20;  Blaunche.  19 
Blawnche,  7,  9.     Blanch  :  whiten. 

Blanche  Porrey,  90 ;  made  of  the 
white  of  leeks :  see  Ducange, 
"  Porrecta,  Jusculum  ex  poris  con- 
fectum,"  (also  Porrata.)  See  Pereye. 
Blandemre,  68 ;  Blandissorye,  9  ; 
Blaunde  Sorre,  84  ;  Blaundysorye, 


21 ;  Blaundyssorye,  2.  See  Warner, 
IX  55,  '■'■  Blaundesore  to  potage,"  Na- 
pier, p.  35,  "  Bland  sorre,"  p.  105, 
"  Blank  de  Sirre  "  ;  F.  of  C,  No.  37, 
"  Blank  Dessorre,"  193,  "  Blank  De- 
sire " ;  Warner,  II.  29,  "  Blank 
sum/,"  p.  47,  Blank  de  Sure,  and 
p.  49,  ''Blank  de  Spy";  L.C.C.,  p.  12, 
"  Blonk  desore."  With  regard  to 
Blaundesorre,  see  Warner,  p.  75. 
It  is  made  with  Blaunche  Mortreives, 
by  setting  leches  of  that  dish  in  syrup 
made  of  wine  and  spices.  The  latter 
]Dart  of  the  word  seems  to  indicate 
the  saffron  or  sorrel  colour.  Fr. 
"■Sore',  Reeked,  made  red,"  Cotgr. 
Bhmk  powder,  15;  Blanke  pouder, 
15,  19  ;  Blaunche  powder,  27,  37  ; 
Blawnche  powder,  1 1, 24.  See  Cotgr., 
"■  Poiddre  blanclie,  a  powder  com- 
pounded of  Ginger,  Cinnamon,  and 
Nutmegs  ;  in  use  among  Cookes." 
Blaunche  perry,  33,  Blaunche  Per- 
reye,  32,  Blawnche  Perrye,  14  ; 
Blaunche  de  ferry,  27  ;  Blaunche 
brawen,  34,  Blaunche  brawne,  71, 
See  Douce  MS.,  No.  49. 
Blaunchid,  adj.,  10,38;  Blawnchyd, 

21.     Blanched. 
Blaunde rellys,  59. 
Blode,  sh.,  8  ;   late  blode,   let  blood, 

52  ;  lete  blode,  78. 
Bokenade,  Vele,  kede,  or  henne  in, 
13  ;  Autre, Vele  in  b.,  13  ;  see  F.  of 
C,  N.  118,  Warner,  No.  52,  Napier, 
p.  25,  (Veal)  ;  Bukenade,  113,  and 
Buknade,  85,  (two  recipes,)  see  F. 
of  C,  No.  17,  ''Bukkenade,"V^A-RNEB., 
II.  No.  45,  Douce  MS.,  No.  76  and 
No.  77,  (Various  meats) ;  L.C.C., 
p.  12,  and  Napier,  p.  105,  (Fat 
Pork) ;  see  also  Warner,  p.  54, 
"  Bukenade  to  potage." 
Bolas,   24;     Lorey    de    Boolas,    25; 

Bolasse,  24.     Bullace. 
BoH,  sb.,  74 ;  Bolle  of  tre,  7,  BoH  of 
tre,  92,  Bowl  of  wood ;  Treeu  bolle, 
16,  95  ;  Bolle,  20. 
Bonte,  sb.,  Crees  bonte  or  bunte,  38, 
Linen  sieve  :  compare  Crescloth,  in 
Halliwell. 
Bonys,  sb.,  6,  55.     Bones. 
Borage,  5,  8;  Burage,  92. 


122 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOKS. 


Bord,  sh.,  7.     Board. 

Bore,  sb.,  49,  Boar.  The  here  in  line  3 
of  No.  xij,  p.  49,  should  be  bore. 

Boteme,  112.     Bottom. 

Boter,  sb.,  8,  20,  42  ;  Botere,  42,  53  ; 
Botter,  51.     Butter. 

Botmon,  sb.,  55 ;  Botmond,  38. 
Bottom. 

Bottes  of  motoun,  40.     See  Buttes. 

Bourreys,  70,  Bowres,  8;  see  L.C.C., 
p.  37,  "  Bours,"  Napier,  p.  120.  This 
dish  is  similar  to  "  Burseu,"  F.  of  C, 
No.  11,  and  to  '' Bursews,"  No.  179, 
and  is  spelt  "  Boxisoun  "  in  Douce 
MS.,  No.  42  (Bosoun  in  the  Text). 
This  seems  to  be  the  Fr.  Bourse,  and 
(in  two  cases)  the  Italian  diminutive 
Bor sella,  or  the  French  Bourseau,  see 
CoTGR.  :  GoDEFROY  has  the  diminu- 
tive Boursault.  The  dish  consists  of 
small  purse-like  rissoles  or  pommes, 
in  the  last  recipe  in  F.  of  C.  :  in  the 
others  there  are  gobbets.  Compare 
Potews,  F.  of  C,  No.  177,  made  in 
Pots,  and  Suchus,  No.  178,  made  in 
Bags. 

Box  laves,  35. 

Boyle,  pp.,  7  ;  Boylede,  8.  Boylid, 
9.     Boiled. 

Boyling,  sb.,  17. 

Brasele,  20.  See  Cotgr.,  "  Brasille: 
Eosted,  broyled,  or  boyled  with  a 
quicke  fire." 

Braunchys,  23.     Branches. 

Brawn  en  Peuerade,  11,  12,  Brawne 
in  peuard,  71,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
47,  Warner,  p.  79  ;  Brawn  in  com- 
fyte,  34,  71,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
48;  Blaunche  Brawen,  34,  71,  see 
Napier,  p.  99,  Douce  ]\IS.,  No.  49; 
B.  of  Capoun,  10,  19  ;  Brawune 
fryej,  43,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  6 ; 
Browne  in  egurdouce,  71,  see 
Warner,  jj.  79,  '■'■Boor  in  cgredouce," 
called  Braun  en  peueruade,  in  Douce 
MS.,  No.  56.  It  is,  however,  to  be 
noticed  that  the  Recipe  gives,  Brovme 
here,  as  below,  and  changes  the  and, 
in  first  line  in  Douce  MS.,  to  or. 
Broke  braune,  68  ;  Braune  with 
Mustard,  68. 

Bray,  vb.t.,  (iu  mortar),  16,  109. 

Bread,  see  Bred. 


Bred,  sb.,  19;  Brede,  8,  14,  18,  80, 
84,  Brown  brede,  108,  white  brede, 
109.     Bread. 

Brede,  sb.,  they  peny  brede,  the 
penny^s  breadth,  7.  The  Recipe  on 
p.  82,  and  Douce  MS.,  No.  4,  read 
two  {ij,  and  too),  not  the :  A.  reads  the. 

Breke,  vb.  tr.  &  intr.,  let  sethe  tyl  it 
breke,  7  ;  breke  brede,  8.     Break. 

Brekyn,  vb.  intr.,  23.     Break. 

Brekyng,  sb.,  52.     Breaking. 

Breme  or  Roche  boiled,  103,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  138  ;  Breme  rost  en 
sauce,  103,  in  Table  of  Douce  MS., 
as  No.  139,  but  omitted  in  the  text : 
see  Napier,  p.  70,  '■'■Breme  in  Sauce." 

Brenuyd  brede,  18.     Burnt  bread. 

Brennyng  hote,  53.     Burning  hot. 

Brerde,  sb.,  48.     Rim. 

Brest  de  motton  in  sauce,  85,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  86,  Napier,  p.  68. 
Breast  of  Mutton. 

Breste,  vb.int.,  5.     Burst. 

Brewe  rested,  79,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  114,  Napier,  p.  63.  Mr.  Swain- 
sou  kindly  notes  that  he  imagines 
this  bird  to  be  the  Whimbrel,  which 
was  called  the  Brame  or  Brume  in 
East  Anglia.     See  Murray. 

Brewes,  11,  32;  Brewes  in  Lentyn, 
29 ;  Browes,  32,  90  ;  Schyconys  with 
be  bruesse,  32,  see  F.  of  C,  33 ; 
Brwes,  30,  Brwes  in  lentyn,  33. 
Brewis. 

Briukes,  75,  76,  Kims. 

Brocche,  «5.,  82  ;  Broche,  39  ;  vb.t., 
39,  40,  106.     Broach  ;  spit. 

Broth,  Venyson  in,  10,  70,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  38  ;  Muscules  in  Broth, 
90,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  78  ;  Balloke 
Brothe,  10,  89,  Douce  MS.,  No.  34 ; 
Storion  in  b.,  13,  Sturgeon  in  b., 
104,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  80  ;  Mighty 
brothe  of  Beef  or  of  Capoun,  12. 

Browne,  vb.int.,  38.  Brown ;  turn 
brown. 

Browne  fryes,  83  :  this  receipe  makes 
brown  bread  of  the  Dish  :  Harleian 
MS.  279,  and  Douce  MS.,  55,  have 
Brawune  frye)  and  Brauii  Frye), 
respectively,  and  omit  brede  ;  see 
above. 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


123 


Bruet  of  Almaynne,  19.  see  Wabner 

II.  31,  F.  of  C,  47,  ''Brewet  of 
Almony"  Warner,  p.  55,  '■'■Blaunche 
hruet  of  Almayn"  and  pp.  55,  77, 
^^ Browet  of  Almayne"  L.C.C.,  p.  11, 
"Breuet  de  almonde,"  Napier,  p.  105, 
"  Bnoet  de  almonds  "  ;  "  AUemagne  " 
apparently  getting  perverted  to 
"Almonds  " :  Bruet  of  Almaynne  in 
lente,  19  ;  Bruette  Sareson,  19  ; 
Hennys  in  b.,  18,  see  Napier,  p. 
114  ;  Oystrys  in  b.,  23  ;  Walkys  La 
b.,  23  ;  Tenche  in  b.,  23  ;  Chykonys 
in  b.,  23,  see  L.C.C.,  p.  22 ;  Muskelys 
in  b.,  24,  see  F.  of  C,  No.  122; 
B.  saake,  27,  see  Warner,  p.  78, 
'■^Browet  seeke  ";  Bruet  Moii  amy,  68  ; 
see  Napier,  p.  32.  This  is  boiled 
cream,  boiled  again  with  brayed 
curds,  honey,  and  butter  :  thickened 
with  yolks  of  egg,  and  leched. 
Brwet,  21.  See  Cotgr.,  "Brouet : 
Potage,  or  broth ;  also,  any  liquor, 
podge,  or  sauce,  of  the  thicknesse, 
or  consistence  of  that  whereof  our 
pruine-tarts  are  made."  Napier, 
p.  34,  has  also  " Eles  in  Bruet"  as 
also  Warner,  pp.  68,  85. 

Bryndons,  15,  and  Bryndonys.  It 
seems  as  if  this  were  Bryndons,  as 
it  is  glossed  bryneeus  in  margin  of 
A.,  and  the  form  brendonse  (more 
likely  u  than  ;i)  occurs  there,  and  is 
glossed  lozenges :  but  it  is  not  the 
dish  called  ^'' Brymeus"  in  F.  of  C, 
though  that  is  probably  the  same 
word,  and  ought  to  be  printed 
^'■Bryniexis." 

Bryse,  vb.t.,  6.     Bruise. 

Bryih,  «^'.,  12.  Bright;  glowing  in 
coloiu". 

Bukenade,  113,  see  Bokenade. 

BuUace,  see  Bolas. 

Buttes  of  Porke,  53,  54,  76 ;  Buttys  of 
Vele,  14,  48,  of  Calf  or  of  Porke,  17, 
85,  Porke,  44.     Butts,  buttocks. 

Butter,  sh.,  73;  Buttur,  83.  See 
Boter. 

Buttry,  adj.,  75.  Buttery;  soft  as 
butter. 

By-clippe,  vh.t.  48.     Beclip. 

Bynde  vppe  flat  with  flowre  of  rys, 
Bynd  vppe  witA  Flowr  of  Rys,  o\qt 


witA  whetyn  floure,  33.     Make  stiff  : 

see  Murray,  Bind,  10. 
Byne,  vh.t.,  112.     Bind;  tie. 
Bytor    rosted,  79,   see   Douce  MS., 

No.  111.     Napier,   p.   62,   "  Bittii^r 

Rost."     Bittern. 
Bytyng,  adj.,  of  Pcpir,  40.     Biting; 

hot,  stinging. 
Bywese,  24  :  compare  Wese  in  Douce 

MS.,   Recipe    174.     Skald  yd  bywese 

seems   to  mean    "just    a- wash,"   or 

hardly  covered.  Compare  ouer-wewyd, 

on  p.  25,  which  is  used  in  same  sense, 

and  see  A-wese. 

Caas,  sh.,  in  caas,  96.     In  case. 

Cabbage,  see  next. 

Cabochis,  69,  Caboges,  6,  33;  see 
Warner,  pp.  52,  75,  Douce  MS., 
No.  173.  This  is  the  French  Cahoche, 
Head,  which  is  still  used  in  the 
Channel  Islands  for  Cabbage. 

Qa,c.c\iQ,vh.int.,2%.  Catch;  stick:  still 
used  in  this  signification  in  cookery, 
of  meat,  etc.,  when  burnt  to  the  pan. 

Cakys,  sh.,  15.     Cakes. 

Calf,  17  ;  Calfesfete,  37;  Caluys  fete, 
25  ;  Calvis,  85. 

Canel,  sh.,  6,  7,  8,  9,  13;  Canele, 
113  ;  Caneli,  92,  95,  Floure  of  CaneH, 
71  ;  Canelle,  12,  13,  14,  20.  Fr. 
Cannelle,  Cinnamon. 

Canvas,  sh.,  20,  27,  41 ;  Canneuas,  39, 
Canvas  (for  straining). 

Capon,  2;  Capons  stwed,  72;  Capon 
en  Counfyt,  115,  see  Warner,  p.  56; 
Capoun  inConsewe.  18,  see  Warner, 
II.  6,  and  F.  of  C,  No.  22,  "  Gapom 
in  Coney,"  and  see  Consewe,  below  ; 
Capoun  in  Salome,  33  ;  Capoun  or 
gos  farced,  41,  Goce  or  Capon  farced, 
81,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  36  ;  Capons 
of  hie  grece,  67,  Capoun  de  haut  grece, 
57,  i.e.  crammed ;  Capoune  broj^e, 
31  ;  Capounys,  21. 

Carpels  of  Veneson,  68. 

Carpys,  sh.,  21.     Carps. 

Cas,  sh.,  25.     Case. 

Cast,  vh.t.,  25;  Caste,  12,  25;  Caste 
vppe  out  of  a  j^otte,  34. 

Caudel  Ferry  departed  with  a  bla- 
manger,    31;    CaudeH    Fery,    91, 


124 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY    COOKERY    BOOKS. 


Cawdelle  Ferry,  15,  see  F.  of  C, 
iS^o.  41,  L.C.C.,  p.  16,  Warner,  pp. 
82,  83,  "  C.  ferres,"  Douce  MS.,  No. 
90,  Napier,  p.  32,  p.  33,  "  C.  Ferreiis," 
and  p.  109  ;  Caudele,  113,  CaudeH, 
96,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  183,  L.C.C., 
p.  51  ;  Cawdelle  de  Almaunde,  16, 
Caudell  de  Almondes,  96,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  159,  L.C.C.,  p.  15,  "C. 
dalmone,"  Napier,  p.  81,  "  C.  of 
Almondes"  p.  108,  "  C.  dahnond" 
F.  of  C,  No.  87,  "  Cawdel  of  Almaund 
rnylk "  ;  Cawdel  out  of  lente,  33  ; 
"  Caudel  rennifing,"  is  also  in  ^YAR- 
ner,  p.  82.  Caudle  ;  Old  Fr.  Cau- 
dcUe. 
Cauderoun,  sh.,  39.  Caldron. 
Cesou,  vb.t.,  69,  70,  85.  Season. 
Ceuere,  vh.t.,  8,  48,  Ceuyr,  39.  Cover; 

see  Keuer. 
Chaaf,  vh.t.,  85  ;  Chafe,  37.     Warm. 
Chafer,  Chafere,  si.,  44  ;  ChafFre,  93  ; 
Chaffur,  93  ;  Chafoure,  16.    Chauffer 
(for  heating). 
Chared  Coneys,  or  chardwardon,  106, 
Chardequynce,     12,     13 ;     Charde- 
wardon,  12,  88,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
53  ;  Napier,  p.  81  ;  Chare  de  war- 
doun  leche,  37  ;  Lange  Wortys  de 
chare,   5,   see    Douce   MS.,  No.    1  ; 
Gelye  de  Chare,  25  ;  Lesynges  de 
C,   44,   see    Douce    MS.,    No.     74 ; 
Tartes  de  C,  47,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
45  ;  Mortreus  de  C,  70,  see  Douce 
MS.,    No.    81  ;    Graund  chare,   57  ; 
Grosse  chare,  58.     Fr.  Chair,  Flesh  : 
compare  flesh  of  a  Melon. 
Charge  de  quyns,  88.   Charedequince. 
Char^eaunt,  adj.,  16,  18,   19,  30,  C. 
]\lYlke    of    Ahnaundys,    27.      Stiff, 
thick. 
Chargeauntly,  adv.,  27.     Stiffly. 
Charger,    sh.,     101;  Chargere,     52; 
Chargeo!/r,  78,  109  :  Chargeoure,  23. 
Large  dish. 
Charlette,  17, 117,  seeDouceMS.,  178, 
F.  of  C,  39,  L.C.C.,  p.  11,  Napier, 
p.  104,  and  p.  121,  Warner,  pp.  82, 
88;    L.C.C.,  p.    11,    '' Charlet"  and 
"  C.   icoloured.'"     Charlet    a-forcyd 
ryaUy,     17,     see    Napier,     p.     29, 
''Charlet  forced,"  F.    of  C,   No.   40, 
"  C.     yforced"     Warner,     p.     82, 


"  Charlet  enforsed."  Charlette  is  the 
Fr.  Chair  laitee,  i.e.  Flesh  with  Milk ; 
and  is  now  spelt  Charlotte. 
Chaudewyiie.95,  Chawdwyn,76,Chau- 
dou/«,108,  Chauudonofflssh,114 ;  see 
Douce  MS.,  Nos.  41, 163,  ''Chaudyn;" 
Napier,  p.  49,  and  p.  10.3,  "  Chau- 
dron  for  swan,"  also  F.  of  C,  No.  143, 
L.C.C.,  p.  9,  and  Warner,  p.  65, 
"  Chaudern  for  swannes  "  ;  F.  of  C, 
No.  115,  Chavjdo7i  for  Lent,  Napier, 
p.  88,  Chaudron  for  Samon,  and  p. 
90,  Chaudron  of  jpiggsfeet.  Chawdron; 
entrails. 
Chawettis,  3;  ChawettysFryidde,  45, 
C.  a-forsed.  46,  Chawettys,  48,  (two 
Recipes,)  Chewettes,  98.  See  Douce 
MS.,  Nos.  50,  156,  L.C.C.,  p.  41, 
"■Chewetes,"  Napier,  p.  55,  "  CAe- 
wettes  of  beef"  "  C.  ryalle,"  p.  56,  "  C. 
on  fishe  dales,"  for  which  see  also 
L.C.C.,  p.  41,  and  F.  of  C,  No.  186  ; 
Warner,  p.  65,  "  Chowettes  on  flesshe 
day,"  for  which  see  also  F.  of  C, 
No.  185,  and  L.C.C.,  p.  41.  In 
Good  Husicifes  Eandmaide  for  the 
Kitchin,  (1594),  If.  39,  it  is  used  for 
the  lump  or  cake  of  paste  for  a  tart, 
"Make  two  Chewets  as  you  would 
make  two  tarts."  R.  Holme,  Armory, 
III.  iii.  82,  says,  "  Chevnt,  or  small 
pie  ;  minced  or  otherwise." 

Chek,  Chick,  81.     See  Chik. 

Chehens  endored,  68,  see  Chik; 
Chekynes,  86.     Chickens. 

Chekyr,  sh.,  49,  50.     Checker. 

Chepe,  sh.,  7  ;  Chepis,  38,  39.    Sheep. 

Chese,  sh.,  20,  grene  chese,  48: 
Chesefatte,  36,  Cheese  press. 

Chesmeyne,  60.     ?  Jessamine. 

Chete,  vh.t,  34.     Set. 

Cheueiine,  60. 

Chicken:  see  Chehens,  Chik,  Chjlenys. 

Chik  farsed,  81;  Cliike  endored, 
81,  see  Napier,  p.  66;  also  see 
Chykenys. 

Chop,  see  Alloices. 

Choppe,  vh.t.,  13.     Chop. 

Chykenys,  sh.,  25;  Chykons  in 
dropeye,  30  ;  Chykonys,  2,  19,  55  ; 
Chykonysinbruette,23;  Schyconys 
with  \e  bruesse,   32.     Chickens. 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


125 


Chync,  sh.,  102,  Chine,  back:   Chyne 

bon,  103,  Chine-bone. 
Chyne,    vb.t.,     102,     104.       Chine, 

chop. 
Chyrioun,  2  ;  Chyryoun,  29,  see  F.  of 

C.,  Ko.  58,  Chyri/se,  Warner,  p.  47  ; 

Chyryis,  29.     Cherries. 
Cinnamon,  see  Canel. 
Ciprys,  Cyprys,  Vyaund  de,  21,  28. 

Cyprus. 
Ciuey,  114,  see  Cyuey. 
Clarey,  sh.,  93;  Clareye,  35;  Clarre, 

93  ;   Clerye,   35.      Clarry  ;   aromatic 

wine.     See  note  in  Warner,  p.  90. 
Clarifi,  vl.t.,  35.     Clarify. 
Clarifiyd,  a(li.,\ionj,  12,  15,  22,  35; 

Claryfiyd  Boter,  53.     Clarilied. 
Clees,  102,  Claws. 
Clene,   adv.,   c.   chargeaunt,    30 ;    c. 

rennyng,  31.     Clean  ;  quite. 
Cleuey,  vb.int.,  21.     Cleave;  stick. 
Cleuyng-,  sb.,  42.     Cleaving;  sticking. 
Close,  vh.t.,  45,  46. 
Clo]7e,  sh.,  17,  19.     Cloth. 
Clones,  sh.,  80,  82 ;  Clone,  Clouys  of 

garleke,  110;  Clous,  113  ;  Clowes,  6, 

10,  13,  15,  91,  Ponder  of  Clowes,  97 ; 

Clowys,  8,   9,    10,   13,  35.     Cloves  : 

Fr.  clou. 
Clowte,  sh.,  37.     Clout ;  cloth. 
Clowty,  adj.,  53.     Clotty. 
Clowtys,   sb.,  47.     Clouts,   clots  (of 

cream). 
Codelynge,  Trype  of  Turbut  or  of,  18 ; 

Codlynd,  11  ;  Haddok  or  codlyng, 

104,     see     Douce     MS.,     Xo.     144, 

'■'■Haddok  ou codlyng huille" ;  Codlyng, 

2,  10,  14 ;  Godly ngis,  16.     CodUng. 
Codling,  see  Codelynge. 
CoflPyn,    sh.,    74,    93,    Coffyns,    73; 

Cofyn,  Cofynne,  47  ;  Cofyns,  45,  55  ; 

Cofyuuys,  53.      Coffin ;   crust   of  a 

pie. 
Cokentrice,    115  ;     Cokyntryce,    40 ; 

Cokyntryche,  62.     See  Warner,  p. 

66,  ''Cokagrys,"  F.  of  C,  No.    175, 

Cocagres ;    which  form   is   made  up 

of  Cock,  and  Grys  or  Oris,  pig,  the 

animals  which  jointly  make  up  the 

dish. 
Cole,  vh.t.,  107.     Cool. 
Coleys,  10.     See   Waenee,    II.    11, 


"  Colys,"  also  p.  80,  "  Colys  of  Jlessh  " ; 
L.C.C.,  p.  20,  "Kohls'";  Napier,  p. 
112,"  Colles. "  Fr.  "  Coulis  :  A  cuUis, 
or  broth  of  boiled  meat  strained  ;  tit 
for  a  sicke,  or  weake  bodie,"  Cotgr. 

Colon2<r,  113.     Cullender. 

Coloure,  vb.t.,  7.     Colour. 

Colpons,  sh.,  89.      Coupons;  slices. 

Colouryd  Sew  without  fyre,  20  ;  see 
Napier,  p.  38. 

Colons,  sh.,  109.  Colys,  17,  29,  54, 
114.     Coals. 

Colys,  sh.,  69.     Coles:  cabbages. 

Comad,  sb.,  56  ;  Comade,  42,  46,  48, 
50,  51,  55,  56  ;  Commade,  48,  54. 
Mixture.  The  word  is  used  in  F.  of 
C,  113  ;  and  is  spelt  Commode  in  A. 

Come  to-gederys,  45.  Unite;  come 
to  one  consistence. 

Comfyte,  sh.,  Anys  in  c.  Anise  pre- 
served in  sugar,  8,  10,  32  ;  Brawn 
in  comfyte,  34 :  see  Warner,  p.  59, 
"  Jjor  in  coutifett,"  and  p.  79,  "  Boor 
in  confith  "  ;  Datys  in  comfyte,  63  ; 
Sugre  in  coufyte,  32,  where  A.  reads 
"  Sugre  of  coufitens." 

Commelyche,  adj.,  34.  Comely, 
seemly. 

Compost  Potage,  59,  see  L.C.C.,  p.  18. 

Composte,  Perys  en,  12,  87 ;  see 
Napier,  p.  100,  Douce  MS.,  No.  57. 
See  also  Cotgr.  :  "  Composte  :  a 
pickled,  or  winter  Sallet  of  hearbes, 
fruits  or  flowers,  coudited  in  vinegar, 
salt,  sugar  or  sweet  wine." 

Confeccions,  88,  Confections;  pre- 
serves. 

Congere,  sh.,  14;  Congre,  59;  see 
Napier,  p.  73,  "■  Congur."  Conger- 
eel. 

Consewe,  Capoun  in,  18.  This  seems 
the  same  as  Capon  in  Co7icis,  see  F. 
of  C,  22,  Warner,  II.  6,  L.C.C.,  p. 
24,  "  Capons  in  Conisye.'"  Napier, 
p.  116,  "  Capon  hi  couns."  Concis, 
again,  seems  to  be  the  same  word  as 
Ganse  or  Gauncely,  and  no  Gauncely 
is  mentioned  in  either  of  the  above. 

Coney,  see  next. 

Conyng,  80,  see  Napier,  p.  64,  Douce 
MS.,  No.  116,  "Conyrost."  Conyng, 
Mawlard,  in  gely  or  in  cyuey,  14, 


126 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOKS. 


Conyng,  hen,   or  Mallard,  80,  see 

Douce  MS.,  No.  68,  ''Cony,  gelyn, 
ou  malard  ew  oyle,'"  Napier,  p.  79, 
"  Cony  o)-  malard  in  cevy  ;  " 
Conyng  in  Gravey,  80,  Conyngys 
in  graueye,  18,  see  Warner, 
11.  10,  p.  58,  and  p.  78,  F.  of 
C,  No.  26,  L.C.C.,  p.  8,  Douce  MS., 
No.  66,  Napier,  p.  101  ;  Conyngys 
in  cyveye,  20,  see  F.  of  C,  No.  25, 
L.C.C.,  p.  20,  Napier,  p.  112,  War- 
ner, p.  59,  and  p.  78  ;  Conyng  or 
hen  in  clene  broth,  80,  ("  clere  broth  " 
in  Douce  MS.,  No.  67),  see  Warner, 
p.  59,  F.  of  C,  No.  66,  which  both 
read  "  Conynges  in  clere  broth " ; 
Cony ;  0.  Fr.,  Connin.  Holme, 
Armory,  II.  vii.  132,  says — "  A  cony 
is  a  rabbit  after  the  first  year  ;  the 
animal  being  a  rabbit  till  the  end  of 
the  first  year." 

CopuH,  sh.,  67.     Couple. 

Corances,  Corauns.  Currants.  See 
Rasonys. 

Core,  sb.,  51  ;  Corys,  24,  30. 

Corkes,  sh.,  106.     Cokes,  Cores. 

Costardys,  «5.,  47.  Costards:  (apples). 

Cosf-marye,  110,  herb. 

Cours,  Course,  sh.,  49.     Layer. 

Cowche,  rh.,  44.     Couch  ;  lay. 

Cowe  Mylke,  29,  110. 

Coynes,   106,  Quinces. 

Crabbe  or  Lopster  boiled,  102,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  134,  Napier,  p.  70 ; 
Crabbe  au  Creuei/s,  59  ;  Crabbys,  28. 

Crane,  rested,  78,  116,  see  L.C.C., 
p.  35,  Napier,  p.  61. 

Crayfish,  see  Creue). 

Crees,  38.  Compare  "  Crescloth,  Pine 
linen  cloth,"  Hallitvell. 

Cream,  see  nest. 

Crem  de  Colonre,  20  ;  Creme,  2,  8 
10,  Fride  C.  of  Almaundys,  7,  91 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  12,  Warner,  p, 
69,  "  Crem  of  A  Imonde  mylk,"  Napier 
p.  42,  "■Creme  of  Almonds";  C 
Boylede,  8,  92,  see  Warner,  pp.  69 
82,  Douce  MS.,  No.  13,  Napier,  p 
32,  "  Creme  bnyle  ; "  C.  Bastarde. 
33;  Creme  Moundy,  62  ;  Creme  Vine 
69,  ?  Cream  with  wine  over  it. 

Creme,  vh.t.,  93.  Crimme ;  crumble, 
see  Kreme. 


Creuej,  sh.,  49 ;  Creueys,  59.  See 
Holme,  Armory,  II.  xiv.  338, 
"  Crevice,  or  Grefish,"  (crayfish)  ; 
O.F.  Crevice,  Mod.'Fr.  Ecrevisse.  It 
includes  Lobsters. 

Crodde,  sh.,  17  ;  Croddes,  36,  43,  73  ; 
Croddys,  36,  56  ;  Cruddes,  86  ; 
Cruddis,  Cruddys,  53.     Curd. 

Crodde,  vh.  int.',  17;  Croddith,  92; 
Crudde,  86,  92.     Cm-d  ;  curdle. 

Cromej,  sh.,  53;  Cromys,  33,  52. 
Crumbs. 

Cromyd  Marow,  55.  Crumbed 
(crumbled)  marrow. 

Croppe  of  netle,  69.     Young  top. 

Crostes,  113,  see  Cruste. 

Crouste,  vh.int.,  32.    Crust  over. 

Crowne,  sh.,  52.     Crown. 

Cruddes,  see  Crodde. 

Cnistade,  50,  55,  Custarde,  74,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  22,  Warner,  p.  65, 
"Crustade,"  L.C.C.,  p.  40,  F.  of  C, 
No.  154,  "  Crustardes  of  Flessh,"  F. 
of  C.,  No.  156,  " Crustardes  of  Fysshe;" 
Crustade  lumbard,  51,  Custard 
lumbarde,  74,  see  Napier,  p.  53, 
"Custad  lomhard,"  Douce  MS.,  No. 
23  ;  Crustade  Ryal,  55,  68 ;  0. 
gentyle,  55 ;  Napier,  p.  54,  has  also 
a  "  Cusiad  opyne,"  i.e.  open.  Florid, 
1659  ed.,  "  Crostdta,  the  crust  or 
coffin  of  a  pie,  a  pas  tie,  a  custard,  a 
tart,  any  kind  of  crusty  meat,  any 
pie  or  pastie-crust,  any  meat  drest 
upon  tostes  or  crusts." 

Cruste,  sb.,  53;  Crustys  of  whyte 
brede,  30  ;  Cruste  Rolle,  46. 

Cryspe^,  44,  Cryspes,  93,  see  F.  of  C, 
No.  162,  "Cryspes,"  No.  163,  "  Cry- 
spels,"  Douce  MS.,  No.  61,  "  Crispes," 
Warner,  IL  No.  26,  "  Cryppys" ; 
Cryspis,  3.  Cotgr.,  "Crepez,  ou  Cre- 
pets  :  Fritters  ;  also,  Wafers."  Mod. 
Fr.  Crepe. 

Culpe,  vb.t.,  4S.  Cut  in  thick  slices  : 
Fr.  Couper. 

Curlewe  rested,  79,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  113  ;  Curlewys,  57. 

Curnylles,  109,  Kernels. 

Custard,  see  Crustade. 

Cyprys,  Cyprus,  see  Vyand. 

Cytte,  vh.t.,  5.     Cut. 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


127 


Cyuele,  113. 

Cyuey,    cyvey,    49 ;    Conyng,  Maw- 
lard,  in  gely  or  in  cyuey,  14,  see 

Napier,  p.  79,  "  Cony  or  malard  in 
ceJi'j/,"  Warner  II.  No.  51,  ^^  Mallard 
in  cyuey  "  ;  Harys  in  Cyuey e,  18, 
Tenche  in  c,  23,  see  Napier,  p.  80, 
Conyngys  in  cyueye,  20.  Mod.  Fr. 
Civet  or  Cice.     Stew  with  chives. 


Dace,  20. 

Darioles,  53,  Dariolles,  75  ;  Daryoles, 

47,  55,  56  ;  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  71, 
L.C.C.,  p.  38,  "Darials,"  F.  of  C, 
No.  183,  '' Baryols,"  Napier,  p.  56, 
"  Baryolites,"  Warner,  p.  66,  ^' Ba- 
ryalys."  See  Cotgr.,  "  Darioles, 
Small  pasties  filled  with  flesh,  hearbes, 
and  spices,  mingled  and  mixed  to- 
gether." 

Dates,  sb.,  33,  88.  94  ;  Datis,  24,  53  ; 
Datys,  12,  15,  16,  19,  D.  in  comfy te, 
63. 

Defaute,  sb.,  of  def.,  22,  in  def.,  29  ; 
in  defawte,  20,  for  d.,  41.     Default. 

Degre,  sb.,  36.  Degree ;  pitch  (of 
colour). 

Del,  Dele,  sb.,  21,  to  del  jolkys  of 
eyron,  21  ;  A  gode  dele  Salt,  15,  i.e. 
of  Salt.     Deal ;  portion. 

Departe,  vb.t.,  21  ;  Gely  Departed, 
69,  compare  the  Recipe  on  p.  31  ; 
Departyd,  31.  Depart ;  part  into 
shares ;  split. 

Dewte,  vb.t.,  43. 

Deye,  sb.,  36,  37,  56.  Dairy-maid: 
see  Chaucer. 

Deye,  vb.,  52.     Die. 

Dise,  vb.t.,  69.     Dice  ;  cut  into  Dice. 

Disshful,  112. 

Dissoii,  sb.,  67.     Dozen. 

Diteyne,  110.     Dittany. 

Diting,  sb.,  105.  Digtiting;  prepara- 
tion. 

Do,  vb.t.,  do  away,  10;  Do  aboue, 
put  above,  112  ;  Do  it  in  a  faire 
vessel,  Put  it  in,  112  ;  Do  ]7er-to, 
Add  thereto,  1.3,  14,  110,  112;  Do 
modle.  Make  meddle,  or  mix,  82  ; 
Don,  10,  Done,  do. 

Doble,  vb.t.,  39.    Double;  fold  over. 


Doderellys,  61,  Dotterels. 

DogR,  73,  Dough  :  see  Bow. 

Doke,  64,  Duck. 

Dore,  vb.t.,  38,  40.     Glaze;  compare 

next  word,  and  Endore. 
Dorre,  Soppes,  90,  Soupes  dorrees, 
114,  Soupes  Dorroy,  11,  Soupes 
dorye,  11  ;  i.e.  Sops  endored,  or 
glazed  with  almond  milk.  Dorry,  sb., 
11.  See  Endore. 
Doucete,  adj.,  33  ;  Dowcet,  7,  29,  30. 

Fr.  Doucet,  sweetish. 
Doucetej,  50;   Doucettes,  55,  D.  a- 
forcyd,  55  ;  Doucetys,  64  ;  Doucettys 
4  ;  Dowcet  liyal,  62,  Dowcetys,  55  : 
"  Doucet  ;    A   lytell   flawne,"    Pals- 
grave.    Cheesecake. 
Douuw,  adv.,  7.     Down. 
Doust,  sb.,  112;    Douste,   110,   113. 

Dust. 
Dow,  sb.,  42,  43,  stronge  Dow,  49. 

Dough. 
Draf,    sb.,    22;    of  Almaundys,    16. 

Draff;  refuse. 
Dragge,  sb.,  11.     Dredge. 
Draw,  vl.t.,  7,  8,  Draw  vp,  7,  Strain  ; 
Draw  Jjorw  straynowre,  5,  8,  9,  Draw 
uppe  l^orw  strayn.,  20  ;  draue,  106. 
Drawe,  vb.t.,  9.     Draw;  eviscerate. 
Drawyd,   adj.,   5.      Drawn  (through 

strainer). 
'Drawyn  grwel,  10,    see  Douce  MS., 
No.  33  :    A.    reads    here    '■'■  Bravme 
gruelle."     Drawyn   Eyroun,    42,    44. 
Drawn  (through  strainer). 
Dregge,  sb.,  99;  Dragge,  11.    Dredge. 
Dresse,   vb.t.,  d.  forth,    13,   yn,    14; 
Dressyst  yn,  15.     Dress  ;  serve  in  to 
table. 
Dressing  knyfe,    93  :    see  Bressoiire 

hiyf. 
Dressoure,   sb.,   24,    28,   30,  31,  34, 
Dresser  :  Dressoure  knyf,  53,  Dresser 
knife,  apparently  knife  for  trimming 
meat  for  the  table  ;  called  Dressing 
knyfe  in  Douce  MS.,  and  above. 
Dropey,   2  ;  Chykons  in  dropeye,  30  ; 
see  F.  of  C,  No.  19,  "i>;-epee,"  which 
is  the  recipe  for  the  sauce. 
Dropping,  sb.,  77,  99.     Dripping. 
Drovv  in  Sonne,  38,  Dry  in  sun. 


128 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY   COOKERY    BOOKS. 


Dry,  adj.,  PuH  dry,  78.    Pluck  clean. 

Dryit,  39.     Dryeth. 

Dubbate,  1  ;  Gelyne  in  dubbatte,  13. 
This  may  be  a  perversion  of  Jus 
hdtard ;  see  references  under  Bastard  : 
the  word  is  spelt  Dieubate  in  Douce 
MS.,  No.  69,  and  Gelyne  endobat 
is  the  form  in  the  Eecipe  on 
page  80. 

Dyse,  sh.,  39.     Dice. 

Dysshe,  si.,  8,  14;  Dysshys,  14. 
Dish. — Dyssche-fuUe,  54. 

Dyuerse,  adj.,  36.  Diverse  (in  colour). 


Easly,  adv.,  SeetB  easly  and  longe,  73. 
Gently. 

Eche  a  coffyn,  74,  Each  Coffin. 

Efte,  adv.,  43.  Eft;  after. 

Egges,  Potage  de,  94  (Poached  Ep;gs), 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  100,  '■'■Egges 
pocche]"  F.  of  C,  No.  90,  "  Pochee  "  ; 
Eggijs  Ryal,  62.     See  Ey. 

Eggys,  54,  Edges. 

Egredoucetes,  113,  Egredouncye,  31, 
see  F.  of  C,  No.  21,  "  Egurdouce  " 
(Flesh)  ;  F.  of  C,  No.  133,  '' Egur- 
douce  of  Fysshe,"  and  Warner,  p. 
45,  and  p.  72  (Fish) ;  Warner,  p.  44 
(Fruit),  p.  57,  '■'■Egurdouce  to  potage," 
(Soup) ;  Browne  in  Egurdouce,  71, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  56.  Fr.  Aigre-' 
doux,  sour-sweet. 

Egrete  rested,  79,  Egrett  rest,  116  ; 
see  Napier,  p.  63  ;  Egretez,  58. 
Egret,  a  kind  of  Heron,  see  Cotgr., 
Aigrette,  Egrette. 

Eier,  sb.,  73.  Air. 

Eiren,  83.     Eggs  :  see  ^y. 

Eisel,  110  :  see  Uijsel. 

Ele,  sh.,  48  ;  Elys  in  Gauncelye,  22  ; 
Elys  in  Sorre,  89,  61,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  25,  Warner,  p.  68,  p.  85 ;  Bakyn 
Elys,  59,  Elys  Rostyd,  59,  60,  62, 
Scdt  Elys,  59,  Salt  Elys  with  galen- 
tyne,  60. 

'EWes,  conj.,  8 ;  Ellej,  75,  88 ;  Ellys, 
6,  10, 15  ;  Els,  109.  Else.  A.  reads, 
"  ellys  Skynnys  of  Plays,"  in  recipe 
ex.  p.  26,  probably  rightly. 

Enche,  sb.,  75.     Inch. 

Endore,  vb.t.,  with  jolkys  of  Eyroun, 


41,  47,  52,  75.  Glaze  ;  compare  Dare, 
above  ;  Fr.  endorer,  gild. 

Endelonge  ]>e  spete,  97,  Endelonge 
the  bak,  104  ;  Enlonge,  71,  78.  End- 
long ;  along. 

Entrayle,  38. 

Erbeblade,  76.     See  Herhelade. 

Erbis,  sb.,  6,  31  ;  Erbys,  19.  Herbs. 
F.  of  C.,  No.  151,  has  a  "  Frytour  of 
Erbes." 

Er|7en,  adj.,  7,  E.  pannys,  54  ;  Erj^yn, 
109.     Earthen. 

Eron,  82,  83.     Eyren :  eggs. 

Esyli,  adv.,  ise]>e  esyli,  42.  Easily  ; 
gently. 

Etyn,  pp.,  52,  Eaten. 

Euelong,  adj.,  53.  Oblong. 

Even,  adv.,  14  ;  Euene,  6,  7  ;  Euyne, 
12.     Even ;  evenly. 

Euery,  adj.,  20,  27.     Every;  each.' 

Ey,  sb.,  19  ;  Eyeron,  81  ;  Eyreil,  83  ; 
Eyron,  8,  Eyron  en  poche,  24 ; 
Eyroun  in  lentyn,  41,  see  Napier, 
p.  37,  "Eggs  in  lent";  Eyroun,  11, 
12,  14,  17,  31  :  Warner,  p.  89, 
has  a  recipe  for  "  Eyren  Gelide," 
see  the  dish  on  page  ,58  of  this 
volume,  which  means  Eggs  in 
Jelly,  not  Iced  eggs  ;  he  has  also 
'■'•  Eyryn  in  hruet,"  II.  No.  23.  See 
Egges. 

Eysel,  sb.,  28;  Eysel  Wyne,  31. 
Eisel ;  wine  vinegar.  0. F.  ^ isil,  Eisil. 


Faire,  adj.,  faire  ppitte,  faire  potte, 
faire  grece,  faire  brede,  82,  clean, 
nice  ;  adv.,  leche  it  faire,  but  not 
to  thyn,  71,  of  moderate  thickness  ; 
Eoste  hem  faire,  82,  moderately, 
nicely  ;  Fayre  oyle,  etc.,  bright,  good, 
13,  14,  15  ;  Fayre,  clean,  13,  15  ; 
F.  pecys,  moderate-sized,  13;  F.  Fyre, 
?  bright,  15. 

Fan,  vb.t.,  fan  owt,  7.  Blow  out 
(chaff,  etc.). 

Farce,  vb.t.,  41,  48.     Stuff. 

Farced,  adj.,  Caponn  or  gos  farced, 
41  ;  Farcyd,  3  ;  Pygge  y-farsyd,  40. 
Stuffed. 

Farcere,  sb.,  46;  Farsour,  113;  Far- 
sure,  39,  43,  49.     Stuffing. 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


129 


Fars,  sh.,  45.     Farce  ;  stuffing. 

Fastc,  adv.,  27.     Fast;  tight. 

Fasty??g  dayis,  17. 

Fauntempere,  19  ;  spelt  Faintempere 
on  page  2. 

Fayre,  adj.,  see  Faire. 

Feche,  rb.t.,  36.     Fetch. 

Felettes  of  Porke  endored,  82,  F.  in 
galentyne,  82  ;  see  Fylettes. 

Fere,  sh.,  in  fere,  together,  20. 

Yere,  adj.,SZ.  Fair:  moderate  sized. 
See  Faire. 

Fesaunt  Host,  116,  Fesaunte  rested, 
78  ;  see  Napier,  p.  60. 

Fe]?er,  sb.,  31,  53.     Feather. 

Fey,  sJ.,  101.   Liver  ;  Anglo-Fr.  Feie. 

Fig,  see  Figus,  Fygys. 

Figee,  113  ;  Fygey,  94,  Fygeye,  24  ; 
see  Warner,  p.  46,  F.  of  C,  No.  89, 
Napier,  p.  119,  '■'Figge,"  Douce  MS., 
No.  162,  ''Figee.'"  The  dish  is  called 
''Fgguade"  in  L.C.C.,  p.  42.  A 
^^  Fyge  to  potage,"  is  also  given  in 
Warner,  p.  67.  The  '■'■Fygey''  in 
Warner  seems  to  be  from  Fige', 
thickened,  see  Cotgr.,  '■^  Laid  fige," 
as  there  are  no  figs  in  it ;  at  the 
same  time  the  figs  thicken  it,  and 
Figuade  would  be  the  more  likely 
form  from  Figue. 

Figus,  112.     Figs. 

Fillet,  see  Felettes,  Fylettes. 

Firmanty,  105  :  see  Furmenty. 

Fissh,  Blaumanger  of,  114,  Blamange;- 
ofFyshe,23;  Chauudon  of  fissh,  114; 
MortrewesofFysshe,14,Mortrowes 
of  fissh,  114;  luschelle  of  F.,  16  ; 
Gelye  de  F.,  26  ;  Potage  on  a  Fys- 
daye,  29  ;  Fyssday  9  ;  Potage  on 
fysshday,15;  Fyssheday,ll,30.  Fish. 

Flake  Water,  21,  should  probably  be 
"  slake,"  i.e.  warm. 

Flampoyntes  bake,  53  ;  Flampoyntys, 
4  ;  see  F.  of  C,  No.  113,  No.  184, 
Flaiompeyns,"  Warner,  p.  66,  'Flam- 
poyntes"  ;  Flampayn,  60 ;  Flampoyne, 
60.  Flampoynte  is  Flan  points,  and 
is  so  called  from  the  small  points  of 
pastry  with  which  the  open  Flawn 
was  stuck,  and  made  bristly. 
Flat,  adj.,  bind  up  f.,  33 ;  serue  in 


flatte,  33  ;  sette  out  almost  flatte,  33. 
The  word  here  refers  to  the  stiffness, 
or  thickness,  of  a  semi-fluid  ;  see 
especially  Recipe  cxxix.  p.  29. 

Flathons,  51,  Flathonys,  73  ;  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  16,  ''Flathonys," 
L.C.C.,  p.  39,  "Flaunes;"  Flathouns 
in  lente,  56,  see  Warner,  p.  48, 
"Floicnys  in  Lente."  Cotgr.,  "Fans, 
Flawnes,  Custards,  Egge-pies." 
Littre,  "  Flan.  Tarte  faite  avec  de 
la  creme  fouettde,  des  oeufs  et  de  la 
farine."  The  word  is  derived  from 
the  low  Latin  Fladonem ;  compare 
O.H.G.  Flado,  Mod.  G.  Fladen. 
They  were  open  tarts. 

Flawns,  see  Flathons. 

Fie,  rl.t.,  10,  18.     Flea:  flay. 

Flesh,  Tartus  of,  74  ;  Tartes  de 
chare,  47,  52  ;  Fless  day,  113  ; 
Flesshe  day,  30  ;  Mortrewys  de 
Fleyssh,  14  ;  Fleysshe,  l,10,Rapeye 
of  F.,  25.  "F[le]ysshe"  in  Recipe 
cxix.  p.  28,  should  be  "  Fysshe,"  as 
A.  also  reads. 

Florche,  vh.t.,  30;  Florisshe,  113; 
Floryssche,  47.     Flourish  ;  garnish. 

Flos  campy  flo?<r,  31.  Flower  for 
ornamenting  dish. 

Floundres  boOed,  102,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  136. 

Flour,  sh.,  38 ;  Floure  Rys,  38  ; 
Whetyn  floure,  33  ;  Flowre  of  whete, 
46,  Whete  Flowre,  38,  Flowre  of 
Amidons,  16,  F.  of  Canelle,  15,  F.  of 
rys,  6,  15,  16,  18,  19,  20,  29. 

Flowre,  vb.t.,  26.     Flour. 

Flowres,  sh.,  23;  Flowrys,  20,29, 
F.  of  hawj'om,  29 ;  Flow^erys,  20. 
Flowers. 

Foiles  of  prtrcelly,  102.     See  Foyle. 

Forced  with  milke  and  rawe  yolkes 
of  eyren,  117.     See  A-forcyd. 

Yore,  prep.,  \0&.     For. 

Forlonge  wey,  or  ij,  91  ;  Forlong- 
wey,  7  ;  A.  reads  here  "  a  furlonge 
Way  or  ij,"  while  the  Douce  MS.  has 
"  Forlange."  This  apparently  means 
the  time  one  would  take  to  that 
distance. 
Fors,  sh..  It  is  no  fors,  33.  Force  ; 
matter  of  importance  :  a  French 
Idiom,  see  Cotgr.,  Force. 


130 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOKS. 


Forsayd,    adj.,     28 ;     forsayde,     38. 

Foresaid. 
Fort,    conj.,    Fort    hit    breke,    114; 

Fort  that,  114.     Until. 
Forjier-more,  29.     Furthermore. 
For-wet/;,  adv.,  41.     Forthwith. 
Foure-square,    46,    iiij    scpare,    44. 

Foiir-square  ;  square. 
Foyle,  sh.,  of  Syluer,  27 ;  Foyles  of 

ginger,  96.  Foil  ;  leaf,  paring. 
Fraiod  oyle,  93,  96.  Apparently 
fried  oil,  which  is  still  used  over  again 
in  France.  See  Fray. 
Franchemyle,  3  ;  Frawnchemyle,  39  ; 
see  L.C.'C,  p.  36,  "  Frauncke  mde,'' 
Warner,  II.  No.  15,  "  Fronchemoyle," 
Napier,  p.  119,  '■'■  Fraunt  hemeile." 
CoTG.,  "  Francheniulle  d'vn  mouton, 
A  sheepes  call,  or  kell."  Mulle,  or 
Mide,  is  O.Fr.  for  poche.  Compare 
"  Franch  e  mule  cfun  boeuf.  The  purse, 
bag,  or  skiune,  wherein  the  stones  of 
an  Ox,  etc.,  be  contained." — Cotgr., 
s.v.  Utile. 
Fray,  vl.t.,   89.     Fry.      The  Douce 

MS.  has  "  fray  hit." 
Fresche,  adj.,  5  ;  Freys,  6  ;  Freysshe, 

6,  9,  10  ;  Freyssche,  52.     Fresh. 
Fiete,  ^'i.^.,  113.     Fret ;  rub. 
rretoure,44,  Frutours,73 ;  see  L.C.C., 
p.  39,  Warner,  II.  No.  19,  No.  40  ; 
Longe  Fretoure,  43,  73,  see  Douce 
MS.    No.    14  ;  Longe  FnUowrs,  68  ; 
Lente  Frutowrs,  96  ;  Fretoure  owt 
of  lente,   46  ;    Leche   Frutowr,    68  ; 
Frutoure  Rasyn,  i.e.  of  Eaisins,  69  ; 
Frutoure  Sainata,  62  ;  Frytoure  da- 
maske,  62  ;  F.  of  C.  has  also  "  Fry- 
tour  of  Myll-e,"  No.  150,  and  "  F.  of 
Erhes,"^o.  151.   O.Y.Friture,  Frying. 
Fride,  adj.,  7  ;    Fryit,  1  ;    Froyde,  7. 

Fr.  Froid,  —e.  Cold. 
Fritter,  see  Fretoure. 
Froyse,  86,  Froyse  out  of  Lentyn,  45, 
see    Douce    MS.,   No.    182,    L.C.C., 
p.   50,  Warner,   II.  No.   18  (veal)  ; 
F.   in    lentynne,    42.      Fr.    Fraise, 
pancake.    They  were  round  fritters. 
Froyte  de  almondes,  91,    called    in 
Douce  MS.,  No.  11,  ''Froydelet  dal- 
mandes,"  i.e.  Cold  Almond  Milk. 
Frutours,  73,  see  Fretoure. 


Fry,  vh.t.,   Fry  in  oyle,  21,  30,  42, 

45,  93  ;  in  grece,  1*4,  30,  44  ;  Frye 

vppe  brown    in    Oyle,   43  ;    Fry  in 

grece  or  buttur,  73. 

Fry,  sh.,  of  Pyke,  95  ;  Frye  of  Pyke, 

16.  Roe. 
Fryid,  adj.,  12,  "  Oyle  fryid,''''  which 
may  mean  either  cold  oil,  or  fried  oil, 
which  is  still  kept  and  used  again 
in  France  ;  see  Fraied  oyle,  above  ; 
at  page  46  it  means  fried. 
Frying-pan,   73 ;    Frying-panne,  42, 

45  ;  Fryng-pan,  86. 
Fulle,  vl.t.,  39.     Fill. 
Fullyche,  adv.,  9,  29.    Fully;  quite. 
Furmenty  wttA  purpaysse,  17,   Fir- 
menty    with    porpeys,     105,     see 
Douce    MS.,   No.    171,  Napier,    p. 
86,    F.    of    C,    No.    69,    No.    116, 
Warner,    p.    66 ;    Venyson    WitA 
f.,  6,  F.  with  venyson,  70,  68,  see 
Douce   MS.,   No.   180.     Eecipes  for 
FuiTQenty  are  given  in  Napier,  p. 
100,  Warner,  II.  No.  1,  and  p.  81, 
L.C.C.,  p.  7.    "Furmenty  is  a  Wheat 
husked  and  boyled,"  Holme,  Armory, 
II.  iii.  56. 
Fuyr,  sh.,  12;  Fuyre,  78.     Fire. 
Fygys,  sb.,  15,  16,  24.     Figs. 
Fylett^s,     sh.,     49;     Fylettys,     38. 
Fillets.     Fylettys  en  Galentyne,  8, 
82,  see  Napier,  p.  89,  F.  of  C,  No. 
28   and   No.    117,  Warner,   p.    58, 
L.C.C.,  p.  31  ;   Felettes  of  Porke 
endored,   82,    see   Douce   MS.,    No. 
127,  "  Filettes  de  pork  en  gallentyne,^' 
or  '■'en-dorre),"  Napier,  p.  67,  '■'■Feletes 
of  Pork." 
Fyngerys,    sh.,    44,    52.       Fingers ; 

(and  as  measure). 
Fyre,  41,  42,  Fii'e. 


Gader,  vh.t.  7,  17,  31 ;  Gadere,  7,  45; 
Gadre,  42.     Gather. 

Galentyn,  Lampreys  in,  32,  see  Na- 
pier, p.  117,  F.  of  C,  No.  126,  L.C.C., 
p.  25,  Warner,  p.  46  ;  Lamprons 
in  Galentyne,  100,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  46,  F.  of  C,  No.  127,  Warner, 
p.  70 ;  Pike  in  galentine,  101  (two 
recipes),  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  75, 
Napier,  p.  79 ;  Fylettys  en  Galen- 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


131 


tyne,  8,  see  Napier,  p.  89,  F.  of  C, 
Nos.  28,  117,  Warner,  p.  58,  L.C.C., 
p.  31  :  Galyn tyne,  109, 0.F.  Galentine. 
For  the  Recipe  for  Galentine  see 
Sauces. 

Galingale,  sh.,  107;  Galyngale,  13, 
15,34,54.  See  Cotgr.,  "  Galmffcd. 
The  Ai'omaticall  root  of  the  rush 
called  Cypresse,  and  Enghsh  Galiu- 
gale." 

Galon,  sh.,  A  gode  g.,  22 ;  Galouns, 
12,  22.     Gallon. 

Gape,  vh.int.,  (of  boiled  muscles 
opening),  90. 

Garbage,  9,  72,  see  Douce  MS.,  IS'o.  83, 
Napier,  p.  78  ;  Garbagys,  9.  Giblets. 

Garleke,  sb.,  23,  110;  clone,  110, 
Clouys  of  garleke,  clowes  of  g.,  Cloves 
of  gaiiic,  109. 

Garlic,  see  Garleke. 

Gauncely,  2  ;  Elys  in  Gauncelye,  22  ; 
Hennys  in  G.,  23.  See  '■'■  Janse, 
jance,  gance,  sorte  de  sauce  ;"  Gode- 
froy.  It  would  almost  appear  to  be 
properly  a  sauce  for  goose  ;  compare 
"  Gances,  Auseres  silvestres  ;  "  Du- 
cange.  It  is  also  spelt  GaunceH,  as 
in  Douce  MS.  :  for  the  sauce  see 
Sauces. 

Gaylede,  22. 

Gele  of  pesoii,  95,  Gelye  de  Fysshe, 
26,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  175,  F.  of  C., 
No.  101,  Warner,  p.  72,  II.  No.  36 
(Fish  or  Flesh)  ;  Gely  (calves  foot), 
86,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  174;  Gelye 
de  chare,  25,  see  F.  of  C.,  No.  102, 
"  Gele  of  Flessh"  Napier,  p.  42, 
"  Gilly  of fleshe"  Warner,  p.  44,  and 
p.  61;  Gele  Potage,  68.  Fr.  Gele'e. 
Jelly. 

Gelofervs,  si.,  19  ;  Gelofres,  15  ; 
Gelofrej,  48 ;  Gelofrys,  21.  Gilh- 
flowers. 

Gelyne  in  dubbatte,  13,  Gelyne  en- 
dobat,  80,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  69, 
and  Duhhate  :  Gelyne  in  brothe,  81, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  89,  see  also 
recipes  under  Hen.     Fr.  Gelin,  Hen. 

Gilliflower,  see  Geloferys. 

Ginger,  see  Gyngere. 

Gobet,  sh.,  31,  55;  Gobettys,  6,  13, 
18,  23,  55.     Gobbet ;  lump. 


Gobet,  vh.t.,  54;  Gobete,  112.  Gob- 
bet ;  cut  into  gobbets. 

Gobouws,  sb.,  10,     Gobbets. 

Goce,  ab.,  81,  Goose.     See  Goos. 

Goions  fryid,  60.     Fried  gudgeons. 

Golet,  sb.,  &  Golett,  116.     Gullet. 

Goos  in  hogepotte,  18,  see  Warner, 
p.  57,  p.  84,  and  II.  No.  22,  F.  of  C, 
No.  31,  L.C.C.,  p.  32  ;  Goce  or  Capon 
farced,  81,  Capoun  or  gos  farced, 
41,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  36  ;  Gos,  2  ; 
Gees,  8  ;  Wilde  gese,  76.     Goose. 

Graspeys,  59 ;  Royal  Fish,  as  Stur- 
geon or  Whale,  but  applied  also  to 
other  fish. 

Grate,  vh.t.,  6. 

Gratid,  adj.,  brede,  16,  21  ;  gratyd, 
14.     Grated. 

Grauey,  Oystres  en  13,  100  ;  Whyte 
pesyn  in  g.,  33  ;  Conyngys  in 
grauey e,  18  ;  Grauy,  1  ;  Oystrys 
in  g.  bastard,  13.     Gravy. 

Graynys,  s3.,  28  (?  as  next);  ofprt-rise, 
6,  parys,  34,  Perys,  27,  Grains  of 
Paradise  ;  of  Pome-garnad,  29. 

Grease,  see  Grece. 

Grece,  sb.,  7,  8,  14,  34.  45;  Whyte 
gr.,  29  ;  Gres,  43.     Grease. 

Gredelle,  sh.,  40;  Grydelle,  21. 
Girdle  (for  cooking). 

Gredyl,  vh.t.,  vp  broun,  40.  Girdle ; 
cook  on  girdle. 

Gredire,  sh.,  102,  103 ;  Gredren,  100  ; 
Gredryn,  102,  103;  Gredyre,  36. 
Gridiron. 

Grene,  adj.,  15,  20  ;  Grene  chese,  48. 
Green. 

Gret,  adj.,  a  gret  dele,  12,  Gret 
Roysouns,  15,  Crete  roysonys,  33, 
Great  Raisins,  i.e.  not  Currants  ; 
Grete  pyes,  76 ;  Gretter,  15,  Greater. 

Gridel,  114,  see  Gredyl. 

Grouwdyn,  adj.,  38,  Ground ;  brayed. 

GroweH,  70;  Growelle  Force,  70, 
Gruelle  a-forsydde,  6,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  32,  L.C.C.,  p.  47,  ''Gruel 
of  fors,"  F.  of  C,  No.  3,  "  Grewel 
forced,"  Warner,  p.  51,  "  Growel  of 
force,"  Napier,  p.  88,  "  Gruelle  en- 
forced;" L.C.C.,  p.  20,  has  also  '■'■Gruel 
'of  Porke  ; "  Drawyn  grwel,  10,  see 


132 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY    COOKERY    BOOKS. 


Douce   MS.,   No.    33  ;    Grwele,   10 ; 

Grwelle,  1.     Gruel. 
Gruel,  see  Growell. 
Grynd,  vb.t.,  12;  Grynde,  9.    Grind. 
GuisseH,  87  ;  see  Iiischelle. 
Gullys,  62,  63.     Gulls. 
Gurnard,  sb.,  25;  G.  rested  orboyled, 

103,  104,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  141, 

Napier,  p.  74  ;  Gornard,  14  ;  Gurnyci 

hroylid  tcith  a  syryppe,  62. 
Gutte,    sb.,    of    purpays,    42,     ?  the 

pouch  :  Guttys,  108.     Gut. 
Gyngaudre,  15,  Gyngautrey,  94  ;  see 

Douce  MS.,  No.  161,  Warner,  p.  70, 

'' Gi/ngatvtre,"    F.    of    C.,    No.    94, 

"  Gyngcnvdryy 
Gyngerbrede,  35  ;  Gyngere  brcde,  3. 

Gingerbread. 
Gyngere,    sb.,    10,    11,    17,    25,   32; 

Whyte    Gyngere,     21  ;    Gyngeue?-e, 

115  ;  Gyngiuer,  114.     Ginger. 
Gysers,  sb.,  72,  76,  108 ;  Gysour,  41  ; 

Gysowrys,  9.    Gizzard.    O.F.  Gezier. 

Hache,  vb.,  14,  18  ;  Hak,  76  ;  Hakke, 
13,  14,  18,  23.     Hack  ;  hew. 

Haddok,  sb.,  10,  11,  16;  Haddok 
or  Codlyng,  104,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  143;  Haddoke  in  Cynee,  114, 
see  Napier,  p.  72.     Haddock. 

Hagas  de  Almaynne,  44,  Hagas  da 
almondes,  84,  see  Napier,  p.  43, 
'■'■  Hagges  of  Ahnayne,''''  Douce  MS., 
No.  21,  "Hagys  dalrnaygne" ;  Hagase, 
3 ;  Hagws  of  a  schepe,  39,  see 
L.C.C.,  p.  52.     Haggis. 

Hak,  vb.t.,  76,     Hack. 

Hake,  sb.,  16. 

Hakkyd,  pp.,  32.     See  Hacke. 

Halful,  55,  Half -full. 

Halfyndele,  20;  Halvyndele,  41. 
Half-deal,  or  part. 

Halybutte,  60,  Halibut. 

Ham,  pron.,  37.     Them. 

Handfulle,  sb.,  28.     Handful. 

Handys,  sb.,  14;  Hond,  16;  Hondys, 
15,  35.     Hand,  hands. 

Hanoney,  43,  84.  See  also  Douce  MS., 
No.  24.  Apparently  Oignone  ;  see 
also  Oignonade,  inLiTTRE,  a  dish  with 
many  onions  in  it,  as  this  dish  has. 


Hard,  vb.t.,   56,  Harde,  54  ;  Harde, 

vh.iiit.,Al ;  Hardyd,p.50.  Make  hard. 

Hard,   adv.,   sethe  hard,   12.     Fast ; 

shai-ply. 
Hardid,  «///'.,  56.    Harded  ;  hardened 

(in  oven). 
Hare,  sb.,  19,  Hare  in  Wortes,  69  ; 
Harys  in  Cyueye,  18,  see  Warner, 
II.  8,  L.C.C,  p.  21,  Napier,  p.  113  ; 
Warner  has  also  "  Haris  in  Talbo- 
tays,"  II.  No.  9  (see  this  Work,  p.  19), 
and  "  Hares  or  conynges  in  seue,"  p. 
78,  see  L.C.C,  p.  21. 
Haselle,  sb.,  leuys,  31  :   Spete  of  h., 

39.     Hazel. 
Hawj'om,    Flowrys    of,   29  ;    Haw- 

thorun,  20.     See  Spyneye. 
Hasselet,   sb.,   97;    Hastelette,    106. 
Harslet  :      Douce    MS.,    "  Haslet." 
'■'■  Hastelet,   dimin.    de  haste,   viande 
rotie. " —  GoDEFROY. 
Had,  sb.,  9,  16;  Hedys,  16,  42.  Head, 
Hef,  vh.,  53.     Heave;  lift. 
Hegh,  adj.,  "lb.     High. 
Held,  vb.,  39.     Throw;  cast. 
Hele,  vb.t.,  27,  47,  73.     Cover, 
Helyd,  p.p.,  52.     Covered. 
Hem,   pron.,    14,    15,    19,    34,    40. 

Them  :  18,  19,  40.     Him. 
Hen,    sb.,    14  ;     Conyng  or  hen  in 
clene    broth,   80,    see    Douce    MS., 
No.  67 ;  Conyng,  hen,  or  Mallard,  80, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  68  ;  Vele,  kede, 
or  henne  in  Bokenade,  13  ;  Hennys 
in  bniette,  18,  see  Warner,  II.  7, 
Napier,  p.   114,  L.C.C,  p.  22,  and 
p.  49  {''Henne  in  hrothe'');  Hennys 
in  Gauncelye,  23,  see  L.C.C,  p.  24, 
Napier,  p.  116;  Henne,  13;  Hennys, 
19,  21.     See  Gelyne. 
Her,  sb.,  Her  syue.  Hair  sieve,  113. 
Herbelade,  54,  'Herbe-blade,  76  ;  see 
Napier,  p.  58,"'Hayrblad  opyn"  {i.e. 
open,  with  no  top  crust,)  Douce  MS., 
No.  184.    So  called  from  the  herbs  in 
the  cakes.     See  Ducange,  '■'Herbo- 
lasta,"  a  cake  stufled  with  herbs. 
Herbs,  see  ^rbis. 

Here,  24.  The  hairy  appendage  of  the 
Mussel,  called  "  Muskles  Wool,"  in 
HoLiiE,  Armory,  II.  xiv.  345  ;  now 
called  the  Byssus. 


GLOSSARY    ASH    INDEX. 


133 


Heron  rested,  78,  H.   rost,  116,  see 

L.C.C.,  p.  35,  Napier,  p.  62,  Herons, 

68  ;  Heyroun,  62. 
Heron-sewe,  68  ;   Heron  sewes,  61  ; 

HerousewYS,  59.    Herusliaw  ;  young 

Heron. 
Herte,  sb.,  41  ;  Hertys,  8.     Heart, 
Hery   of    bonys,    14 ;     Hairy    with 

bones. 
Hete,  sb.,  22  :  rb.,  11 ;  bete  bote,  12. 

Heat. 
Heyroun,  62.     Heron. 
Hew,  vb.t.,  7,  17;  Hewe,  6,  17. 
Hogepotte,  Goes  in,  18  ;  ^' Rochepot: 

A     hotcb-pot,     or      Gallimaufrey." 

— COTGR. 

Hogbes,  sb.,b\  ;  Howe,  37;  Howbys, 

25  ;  Hojos  of  fele,  86.     Hock. 
Hoi,  adj.,  19,  27;    Hole  pepir,  8,  9 

Hool,  55  ;  Hoole,  12.     ^^^lole. 
Hold    coloure,      keep     colour,     25 

Holdyn,  pp.,  7. 
Hole,  vb.intr.,  7,  Hull;  lose  the  busks 

Hoole,  vb.tr.,  33,  Hull ;  strip  off  bulls 
Hon,   sb.,    105;  Holys,    7,    S2,    114 

Hull ;  busk. 
HondefuH,  sb.,  72.     Handful. 
Honge,  vb.infr.,  36;  hongy,  7.    Hang. 
Hony,    6,    Clarifiyd   b.,    12,   Hwyte 

Houy,  29. 
Hoifi,  106,  of  Wbelk. 
Hote,  adj.,  10,  12.     Hot. 
H.q.,  12.     IToc  qucere :  like  q. v. 
Hure,  byre,  adj.,  13,  18.     Her. 
Hwyte,    adj.,    Hony   or   Sugre,    29, 

Sugre,  54.     White. 
Hy,  adj.,  komytbonby,  boils  up,  17. 
Hym,  profi.,  18  ;  Hyt,  35.   Him:  It. 
Hyrcbouns,  62.     See  Yrcbons. 


I-ete,  99,  Eaten. 

Isope,  sb.,  27  ;  Isoppe,  74.     Hyssop. 

I-sothe,  pp.,  18.     Sodden. 

loissh  116,  Juice. 

JoUys  of  Samoun,  61,  Salmon  Jowls. 

loutes,  5  ;  louutes,  1.  See  Kapiek, 
p.  108  (Almond),  L.C.C.,  p.  15, 
'■'■Jtnits  dalmond,"  F.  of  C,  No.  9'S, 
(Ahnond),  Wabner,  p.  67,  "  Jowtes 


of  Almand  Mylke  ; "  F.  of  C,  No. 
73,  "  Fremhe  Owtes  ; "  F.  of  C,  No. 
5,  "  Eowtes  of  Flessh,"  AVarxer,  p. 
52,  "  Joutes  on  Jiesh  day,"  p.  80, 
"  Joietes  of  Jlessh^'  ;  "Warner,  p.  80, 
"  Jowtes  of  fi/sshe  "  ;  L.C.C.,  p.  47, 
48,  "JoM^es,"  (Vegetables).  lust  seems 
equivalent  to  Jus,  Juice,  see  Cotgr., 
and  is  spelt  Joust  in  Warner,  p.  89 ; 
and  see  Ducange,  ^'■Jutta,  potionem 
coufectiuii  ex  lacte  spissioi'em." 

loynte,  sb,,  116. 

luce,  sb.,  92:  Ins,  15,  31,  40,  41, 
45  ;  Juse,  21.     Juice. 

lunte,  rb.t.,  116.     Joint. 

luschelle  of  Fysshe,  16,  lussheH,  95 
(Fisb)  ;  lusseH,  95  ;  see  Warner, 
p.  86,  "  Jussel  of  fi/sshe."  Douce 
MS.,  No.  166,  ''GicisseU  "  (Fish) ;  see 
also  Warner,  p.  82,  ^^ Jussel  of  Jlessh," 
Napier,  p.  26,  "  Juselle  sengle," 
(flesh),  p.  87  and  p.  104,  "  Jusselle  " 
(Flesh),  L.C.C.,  p.  11  (Flesh),  War- 
KER,  II.  No.  21  (Flesh),  and  Warner, 
p.  82,  F.  of  C,  No.  44,  "  Jusshell 
enforced.''''  '■'■Jus.'tel, j us,  potion,"  Gode- 
FROT :  Juscellum  is  late  Latin  for  soup. 
See  Guissell. 

Kake,  sb.,  of  dow,  43  ;  85.     Cake. 

Kaste,  vb.,  52;  Kest,  115.  Cast: 
tbrow. 

Kede  :  Vele,  kede,  or  henne  in  Boke- 
nade,  13,  85,  see  Douce  MS..  Nos.  76, 
77  ;  Kede  rosted,  81,  see  Napier,  p. 
65 ;  Keed  85 ;  Kyde  a-Forsyde,  41. 

Kele,  vb.int.,  7,  12,  13,  24  ;  Kelid,  38. 

Kelyng,  sb.,  94,  96.  Keeling. 
Holme,  II.  xiv.  334,  says  it  is  tbe 
common  Cod,  but  it  seems  identified 
with  Codliug  elsewhere.  Florio, 
1659  ed.,  see  Eug.-ltal.  part,  trans- 
lates it  by  Merluzzo,  wbich  he  says 
is  tbe  Haddock-fish,  or  according  to 
others  the  Sea-ivhiting. 

Kerf,  vb.,  38;  Kerne,  22,  36,  112. 
Carve  :  cut. 

Kerve,  vb.t.,  in  a  morter,  70,  Bray. 

Keuere,  vb.t.,  45,  52  ;  Kouere,  112  ; 
Kyuer,  43  ;  Kyuere,  46,  50.  Cover : 
see  Ceuere. 

Kid,  see  Kede. 


134 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY   COOKERY    BOOKS. 


Kne,  Knese,  116;  Kneys,  116.  Knee. 

Knede,  vh.t.,  38.     Knead. 

Knyf,  s5.,  35  ;  KnyfP,  34.     Knife. 

Koddys,  43.     See  Bene-codde. 

Komyth,  17.     Cometh. 

Kowe  mylke,  35. 

Kreme,    sb.,  7,    39 ;  of  Alraaundys, 

42.     Cream. 
Kreme,    vb.t.,    35,    40 ;  Kryme,    35. 

Crimme ;  crumble. 
Kutte,  vh.t.,  21.     Cut. 
Kychoun,  sh.,  34,     Kitchen. 
Kyde,  see  Kede. 
Kyn,  114,  Cows, 
Kyrneleys,  sh.,    34 ;  Kymellys,    30, 

32.     Kernels. 
Kyt,  vh.L,  7,  11;  Kytte,  7,  10,   11, 

14,  15,  18,  26  ;  Kyttyst,  52.     Cut. 
Kyttyng,  sh.,  26.     Cutting. 
Kyuere,  vh.,  46,  50,  52.     Cover  :  see 

Ceuere  and  Keuer. 


Ladel,  sh.,  7,  10  ;  Ladelle,  17.  Ladle. 
Ladel-ful,  8,  Ladleful. 

Lamprays  bake,  52,  Lamprey  I-bake, 
98,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  60,  L.C.C., 
p.  38,  Napier,  p.  49,  p.  121  ;  Lam- 
prey poudred,  99,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  1 30  ;  Lampreys  in  galentyn,  32, 
see  Warner,  p.  46,  F.  of  C,  No.  126, 
L.C.C.,  p.  25,  Napier,  p.  117  ;  Sauce 
pour  lamprey,  99,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  30 ;  Warner, p.  46,  has  '■'■Lamprey 
in  hruet.'" 

Lamprons  y-bake,  100,  Lampro?ms 
y-bake,  51,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  91  ; 
Lamprons  in  Galentyne,  100,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  46,  F.  of  C,  No. 
127,  Warner,  p.  70 ;  Lampronys,  32  ; 
Lamprounys,  61.     Lampern. 

Larde,  &h.,  19,  Lard  ;  Lardej,  Lardys, 
49,  Tliin  slices. 

Larde,  vh.t.,  for  roasting,  18,  78 ;  cut 
in  thin  slices,  40,  used  in  the  same 
signification  in  A.,  see  this  book, 
p.  19,  recipe  Ixvij ;  the  bracketed 
"mynce"  being  "larde"  there.    Lard. 

Larkes  rosted,  68. 

Lasse  oj^er  more,  45.     Less  or  more, 

Lat.  fJ.,  12,  21,  25,  lat  blede,  52; 


Late,  7,  21,  43,  Late  deye,  52,  Late 
blode,  52  ;  Let,  12,  21  ;  Lete, 
12,  21. 
Laumbere,  adj.,  26.  Amber. 
Leche,  sh.,  34,  71  ;  L.  lumbarde,  35 
(2  Recipes),  92,  93,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  54,  No.  55,  F.  of  C,  No.  65, 
Warner,  p.  62,  Napier,  p.  34,  '■'■Lesh 
lombard";  L.  Vyaundes,  pt.  II., 
Harl.  MS.  279,  p.  34,  see  Viaund; 
Lese  fryes,  75,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
43,  Napier,  p.  59,  '■'Lesche  freez;" 
F.  of  C,  No.  158,  has  "■Lesshes  fri/ed 
in  lenton  " ;  Lechys,  25,  32,  34.  See 
CoTGR.,  ^'■Lesche :  A  long  slice,  or 
shiue  of  bread  "  (or  other  edibles). 
There  are  also  in  the  Banquets  Leche 
harry,  62,  Leche  cremy  ryall,  Leche 
FriiUmr,  68.  The  Leche  harry  was 
a  leche  with  bars  of  gold  and  silver 
as  adornment. 

Leche,  vh.t.,  12,  13,  17,  18,  31,  71; 
Lechyst,  35 ;  Lesshe,  12.  Cut  in 
leches. 

Lechyd,  j9^.,  35.     Cut  in  leches. 

Lechyngys,  sh.,  15.  At  first  sight 
this  looks  like  Lechings,  but  A. 
glosses  it  Lozenges,  and  Losenges  is 
also  spelt  "lechyuges"  in  A.,  in  the 
recipe  on  page  44. 

Led,  sb.,  73;  Lede,  49;  Ledys,  47, 
48.  Lid  of  pot,  and  top  crust  of 
pastry  coffin. 

Lede,  sh.,  39.     Lead. 

Leek,  see  Lehys. 

Lef,  vh.t.,  12  ;  Lef  . .  out,  51.  Leave. 

Lekys,  sh.,  14.     Leeks. 

Lemys,  26.     Limbs. 

Lenge,  sh.,  43,  48.      Ling ;  the  fish. 

Lente,  sh.,  2,  12,  19,  33,  43,  56  ; 
Lentyn,  29,  33,  41,  45  ;  Lentynne, 
42.     Lent ;  the  season. 

Lere,  adj.,  50.     Lear;  empty. 

Lese,  vb.t.,  21,  38.     Pick. 

Lese  fryes,  75,  see  Leche. 

Lesenges  Fries,  97,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  154,  Napier,  p.  58  :  Lesynges 
de  chare,  44,  Losinges  de  chare,  82, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  74,  L.C.C., 
p.  40,  ''Loysyns,"  F.  of  C,  No.  49, 
'■'■Loseyns,"  both  of  Cheese.  Napier, 
p.  80,  F.  of  C,  No.  128,  "Lessiuffis 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


135 


on  Jische  dais";  Lesyngys,  LesyngJ, 
44.     Lozenges. 

Let  lory,  17,  Lethe  lory,  85,  see  F. 
of  C,  No.  81  ;  Lete  lardys,  3,  Let- 
lardes,  92,  Lette  lardes,  35,  see 
Warner,  p.  63,  "  Leche  lardt/s," 
Napier,  p.  87,  p.  106,  "  Ledlardes," 
L.C.C.,  p.  13,  '•'•  Lede  lardes"  F.  of 
C.  No.  68,  "  Lete  Lardes.'"  Fr.  Lait, 
Milk  :  the  "  Let  lardes  "  seem  origi- 
nally to  have  been  "  Let  lardd,"  or 
"  Larded  milk,"  and  to  have  been 
changed  to  the  substantive  lardes  or 
lardys,  and  become  "  Milk  lards," 
and  the  Let  even  got  changed  into 
Leche,  as  above,  the  larded  milk  being 
cut  into  Leches.  Holme  also  says 
that  Leach  is  "  a  king  of  jelly,  made 
of  cream,  ising  -  glass,  sugar  and 
almonds,  with  other  compounds." 

Lete,  vb.,  see  Lat. 

Leuer,  sh.,  16,  41;  Lyuer,  16; 
Lyuerys,  9,  16.     Liver. 

Leuys  of  p^rcely,  7,  of  borage,  8. 
Leaves. 

Leuyth,  40,  Remaineth. 

Ley,  vh.t.,  109.     Lay. 

Ley,   Leye,  sh,,   32.      Lie ;  Lees  of 

wine. 
Ling,  see  Lenge. 
Litel,  adj.,  16  ;  A  litil  an  a  litil,  17  ; 

Littel,  16  ;  Litul,  LituH,  71  ;  Lytel, 

24;  Ly telle,   53;  Lytil,   15,   16,   17; 

Lytylle,  18.     Little. 
Liver,  see  Leuer. 
Loach,  see  Loches. 
Lobster,  see  Lopster. 
Loches,  Lochys,  24,  Loaches:  Menese 

or  loche  boiled,  104,  see  Douce  MS., 

No.  148. 
Lof,  sb.,  6.     Loaf. 
Loft,  On,  Aloft,  78. 
Longe  Fretoure,  43,  L.  Frutours,  73, 

68,  see  Fretoure  ;  Lange  wortys  de 

chare,   5,    see   Douce   MS.,    No.    1  ; 

Lange   Wortes  de   Pesoun,  5,  89, 

see  Douce  MS.,  No.  2. 
Longebeff,  sb.,  5.     '■'■Lange  de  boeuf. 

Ox-tongue,  rough  or  small  Buglosse," 

Cotgr.  :  A.  reads  here  "  longedebef." 
Lopster,  s5.,  102,  Crabbe  or  Lopster 

boiled,   102,    see   Warner,   p.  47  ; 


Lopstere,      24  ;      Loppcstere,      114. 

Lobster. 
Lorey  de  Boolas,  25  :  "Lora,  Potionis 

mellitse  genus,"  Ducange.     There  is 

honey  in  the  Bullace. 
Lozenges,  see  Lesenges. 
Luce, «5., 39, 42,  57;  Luvs,l  12;  Luyss, 

113  ;  Luyjs,  113.    Full-grown  Pike. 
Lust,  vb.,  41 ;  Luste,  55.  List;  like. 
Luys,  Luyss,  see  Luce. 
Ly,  vb.t.,  15,  19;    Lye,  13.     Allay; 

mix.     See  A-lye. 
Lycour,  sb.,  6,  11  ;  Lycoure,  12,  26; 

LycowTe,  11,13;  Lykoure,  1 2.   Liquor. 
Lyer,  sb.,  20  ;  of  Brede  cromys  with 

wyne,    33.     Liour ;    mixture :    spelt 

"lyre"inF.  of  C,  p.  28. 
Lyid,  jBi/).,  13.     Allayed. 
Lykey,  vb.,  31.     Like;  please. 
Lynne  clout,  112,  Linen  clout. 
Lynen  clojie,  9,  34. 
Lyode  Soppes,  11.   ?  Allayed,  steeped 

sops. 
Lyte,  adj.,  17.     Little. 
Lyuerys,  9  ;  see  Leuer. 
Lyjt,  adj.,  17.     Light;  small. 


Mace,  vb.t.,  35.     Make. 

Maces,  sb.,  6,  10,  15;  Macej,  46; 
Macys,  8.     Mace  ;  the  spice. 

Malasade,  83,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  10, 
and  Meselade ;  Malesade,  84. 

Mallard:  Conyng,  hen,  or  Mallard, 
80,  called  "  Cong,  geli/n,  ou  riialard 
en  oyle^'  in  Douce  MS.,  No.  68  ; 
Mawlard,  8,  12,  63,  Conyng,  M.  in 
gely  or  in  cyuey,  14,  the  same  Recipe 
as  above  ;  Warner,  II.  No.  51,  and 
p.  62,  85. 

Malmens  bastard,  93,  Malmenye  Fur- 
nej,  48.     See  Mammenge. 

Malvis,  sb.,  69;  Malwys,  5,  15, 
Mallows. 

Mammenye  bastarde,  22  ;  Maumenye 
Ryalle,  22 ;  Mawmene,  88  ;  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  167,  Napier,  p.  118, 
'■'■  Mammony,"  Warner,  II.  No.  30, 
'■'■  Maumene,'''  p.  IQ, '■^  Maivmene,^''  F. 
of  C,  No.  20,  "  J/awme;iee,"No.  194, 
"i/aw»ieu?iy,"L.C.C.p.  26,^^Momene'' : 
Warner  has  also  on  p.  55,  "Maw- 


136 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY    COOKEKY    BOOKS. 


mene  to  potage"  (a  soup).    The  word 

is  apparently  derived  from  the  Fr. 

malmener,    the    meat   being  teased 

small.     Compare  Malmenye,  above. 
Mange  moleyn,  36.     Possibly  named 

after    a    person  ;    see    Ri/s   Moleyn) 

on   page   59  :     both    have    Rice    as 

ingredient. 
Manged  brede,  83,   Manchet  bread  ; 

Douce  MS.  "  Maynche  " :  see  Mengycl 

Flowre,  and  Faynemain. 
Mannys,  97,  Man's. 
Marbyl  coloure,  34.    Marble  colour: 

variegated. 
Marbylle,     adj.,     29,     Marbly ;     A. 

reading  "  marbely. " 
Marew,   sh.,   56  ;    Marow,    40,    44  : 

Marw,  6  ;  Marwe,  6,  8,  51  ;  Mary,  9 

(but  A.  reads  here  "  meribonys,"  in 

place   of  "  mary,  brothe,")  74,   84  ; 

Marye,    32  ;  Merow,    44,    Merw,    9, 

Marrow. 
Maribonys,    55,     Marw-bonys,     55, 

Mary-bones,  70,  Marybonys,  5,  Mery- 

bonys,  5,  6,  46.     Marrowbones. 
Marling;  Fryid  Marlyng,  59,   Mer- 

lyng  soj^e,  61.    Whiting:  Yx.  Merlan. 
Marrow,  see  Marew. 
Mawe,  sh.,  38,  39;  Mawes,  18,  106; 

Mawys,  18,  38.     Maw  ;  stomach. 
Mawmeny,  68,  see  Mammenye. 
Medel,  xh.t.,  73  ;    Medle,  75  ;    Med- 

ylde  togidre,  73.     Meddle  :  mix. 
Melle,  vl.t  ,  24,  30.     Mell ;  mis. 
Mence,  vb.t.,  41.     Mince. 
Menese    or    loche    boiled,   104,    see 

Douce  MS.,  No.  148;  Menyse,  104. 

Minnows. 
Meng,  vb.t.,  46;    Menge,  17.     Mix: 

mingle. 
Mengyd  Flowre,  43,  Manchet  flour, 

compare  Manged  brede,  Meyned  flour : 

Douce  MS.  reads  "  Mayned  Q.our.'" 
Meselade,  42  ;  Meslade,  43.  ?  Jleslade, 

mixture  :  spelt   Malesade  in   Douce 

MS.  and  in  A.     See  Malasade. 
Messe,  vb.t.,  30,    114;  Messe  forth, 

11,  114.     Mess  ;  portion. 
Metys,  35,  Meats. 
Meyned  floure,  83  :  flour  for  Painde- 

main,  or  Manchet  bread,  see  Mengyd 

Flowre. 


Mighti,  adj.,  71.     Mighty:  strong. 

Milk,  see  Let. 

Milkemete,  106  ;  Milke  Rostys,  40, 
called  Mylke  Rostyd,  on  page  3,  see 
Napier,  p.  109,  War>er.  II.  No. 
25,  L.C.C.,  p.  17  ;  Mylke  of  al- 
maundys,  6,  7,  13. 

Millet  boyled,  104,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  147,  Mullet.     Fr.  mulet. 

MilleweH,  sb.,  96;  Milwel,  43,  48; 
Llilwelle,  48  ;  Mulwyl  taylys,  61  ; 
My  1  well,  16.  Mulvell :  said  to  be 
Haddock.  See,  however.  Holme, 
Armory,  II.  xiv.  334,  where  he  says  : 
"The  Keling  or  common  Cod,  is 
called  the  Welwell  in  Western  parts 
of  England."  In  the  E7ig.  It.  part 
of  Florio,  ed.  1659,  the  Melwel  also 
is  identified  with  the  Keeling  ;  also 
inCoTGR.  (see  '■'Merlus  "),  and  is  there 
said  to  be  a  small  kind  of  Cod,  of 
which  Stockfish  was  made.  See 
Keeling. 

Mince,  vh.,  see  Myce,  Mynce. 

Minnows,  see  Menese. 

Molberys,  28,  Mulberries. 

Molde  to-gederys,  35.  Mould,  or 
roll,  together. 

More,  adv.,  19. 

Morreye,  A  rede,  28  ;  Murrey,  19  ; 
Murreye,  28 ;  see  F.  of  C,  No.  38, 
'■'Morree,"  Warner,  p.  48,  "  Morrey" 
II.  No.  37,  ''Murrey;'  p.  84,  ''Murre," 
and  p.  56,  '■'■Murre  to  potage  "  (a  soup). 
It  is  so  called  from  the  mulberry,  or 
dark  red  colour  of  the  dish,  and  in 
the  recipe  in  Warner,  II.  No.  37, 
mulberries  are  used  to  colour  it  : 
sometimes  wine  or  saffron  is  used. 
It.  Mora,  mulberry  ;  "  Morello,  the 
murreyor  black-berry  colour,"FLORio; 
'•'•  Moree:  A  kind  of  murrey,  or  darke- 
red  colour,"  Cotgr.  ;  "  Moratum  : 
Potiouis  genus  ex  vino  et  moris 
dilutis  confectse,"  Ducange  ;  also 
Moretum. 

Morter,  sb.,  11,  27,  28  ;  Mortere,  28, 
35,  53  ;  Mortre,  109.  Mortar  for 
braying. 

Mortrewes  of  Fysshe,  14,  114,  Mor- 
ti'ewes  of  Pesyn,  90,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  82,  Napier,  p.  Ill,  Warner, 
p.    86,  F.   of  C,    No.   125,   L.C.C., 


GLOSSARY   AND    INDEX. 


137 


.  p.  19 ;  Mortreus  de  Chare,  70, 
Mortrewys  de  Fleyssh,  14,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  81,  Warner,  p.  75, 
Napier,  p.  102,  L.C.C.,  p.  9  ;  Whyte 
Mortrewes,  19  (Hens),  White  Mor- 
trewys of  Porke,  28,  seeF.  of  C,  45, 
'■'■Mortrews"  and  Warner,  II.  No.  5, 
''Morterdi/s,"  F.  of  C,  No.  46,  ''Mort- 
reus blank"  Napier,  p.  106,  Warner, 
p.  62,  L.C.C.,  p.  13,  "■  Blanch  yd  mor- 
trews"  all  made  from  Hens  and 
Pork.  Italian  Mortarello,  a  Mortar, 
Florio  :  in  Ducange  "Mortariolum" 
is  applied  to  a  dish  prepared  from 
bits  of  meat,  and  there  are  also  the 
forms  "  Mortairol,"  and  (in  Littre) 
"  Mortayrol "  :  see  Mortadello,  "  A 
large  sausage,"  in  Littre.  Modern 
3/ortress,  A  dish  of  pounded  meat : 
the  II  being  hquid  in  the  French 
would  give  the  form  Mortrews. 

Morwe,  Morrow,  see  A-morwe. 

Mosselle,  sh.,  42  ;  Mosselles,  83, 
Mossellys,  30,  112.     Morsel. 

Motley,  adj.,  36. 

Moton.  si.,  8,  9 ;  Motouw,  9  ;  Alows 
de  Beef  or  de  m.,  40,  83  ;  Trype 
de  m.,  7,  82,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  4 ; 
Brest  de  mottoil  in  sauce,  85,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  86  ;  Stwed  Muttoii, 
72;  MutouJi,  8  :  see  Mutton. 

Moiintance,  &b.,  42.     Amount. 

Mow,  vh.,  38.     May. 

Mowntayne,  sb.,  84.  Compare  JfoMwi- 
ance,  above. 

Muscules  in  broth,  90,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  78,  Napier,  p.  78 ;  M.  in  shelle, 
90,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  79,  Napier, 
p.  78  ;  Muskelys  in  bruette,  24,  see 
F.  of  C,  No.  122  ;  Warner,  p.  68, 
has  also  ''Musculs  in  sewe" :  Musculis, 
90  ;  Muskele,  24.     Mussel. 

Mussel,  see  Muscules. 

Mutton,  Stwed,  72  (Stewed);  Tripe 
de  M.,  82,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  4; 
Allowes  de  M.,  83,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  17. 

Myce,  vb.t.,  71,  76,  99.  Mince.  Fr. 
micei;  michier. 

Myced,  adj.,  and  jO/?.,  72,  75  ;  Mysed, 
74.     Minced. 

Mvddel,  si.,  42;  Myddelle,  52. 
Middle. 


Myghty,  adj.,  12.    Mighty;  strong: 

(Broth). 
Myid  brede,  39,  49.    Crumbed  bread  : 

Fr.   Mie,   crumb  ;  see   L.C.C.,  p.  8, 

"Myed,"p.  11,  "  Myud." 
Mylej  in  Rapeye,  46. 
Mylt,  vl.t.,  51  ;  Mylte,  86.     Melt. 
Myites,  si.,  70;    Myltys,  8.     Milts; 

spleens. 
Mynce,    vh.t.,    16,   29,    110,    Mince: 

Mynced,  adj.,  15,  16,  76  ;  Myncyd, 

14,  Minced.     See  Myce. 
Myntes,  110.     Mints;  the  herb. 
Mythty,  Myjthty,  adj.,  m.  wyne,  22. 

Mighty  ;  strong. 
Myjt,  Myjth,  vb.,  27.     Might. 


Namely,  adv.,  41,  107.     Especially. 

Nape,  vh.t.,  102,  105. 

Navel,  14. 

Nedyl,  sh.,  40.     Needle. 

Neme,  vh.t.,  6,  22  ;  Nym,  14,  21,  23, 

30,  39 ;  Nyme,  23,  30,  32.    Nim ;  take. 
Neres,  sb.,  70;  Nerys,  8.     Ears:  A. 

reads  here  "  eris." 
Nese  Bekys,  45,  see   "  Kysebeh,"   F. 

of  C,  No.  173. 
NessB,  adj.,  75;  Neyshe,  6;  Neyssche, 

48,   53  ;  Neysshe,   24,   27  ;  Nessher, 

94.     Nesh  ;  soft. 
Nombles  of  Veneson,  70,  Nomblys  of 

be  venyson,  10,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 

39,  F.  of  C,  No.   13,  and   No.  54, 

Warner,  p.  53,  and  II.  No.  12  ;  see 

also  Napier,  p.  103,  and  L.C.C.,  p. 

10,  (any) ;  Napier,  p.  90,  "  Nombles 

of  Jische."      Numbles,    p.    114,    is 

imperfect.    Umbles.     O.F.  Xomhhs; 

compare   Late   Lat.    Numbulus,    for 

Lat.  Lumhulihs. 
Non,  adj.,  35.     None;  no. 
Notcmyggej,  109.     Nutmegs. 
Noteye,  31.     So  called  from  the  nuts 

in  it. 
Nowne,  73.    Oven. 
Nowt,  adv.,  6,  8,  11 ;  Nojt,  7,  8,  16. 

Not. 
Numbles,  see  Nombles. 
Nutmegs,  see  JSfotemygge]. 


138 


FIFTEENTH   CENTURY   COOKERY   BOOKS. 


Oatmeal,  see  Otemele. 

Obleies,  sb.,  73  ;  Oblye,  46.  Oble  ; 
thill  cake.  Cotgr.,  "  Ovblie :  A  wafer 
cake  ;  such  a  one  especially  as  is 
sweetened  only  with  honie  ;  also,  the 
thinne  past  that  serves  for  the  bot- 
tomes  of  Tartes,  and  March-panes." 
See  DucANGE,  Oblata.  There  are 
the  forms  Oblee  and  Oblie,  and  the 
original  sense  of  the  word  is  conse- 
crated wafer,  as  an  offering. 

Of,  adv.,  8 ;  prep.,  27,  42.     Off. 

Oil,  see  Oyle. 

Oille  de  oliue,  114.  Olive  oil.  See 
Oyle. 

On,  adj.,  36,  53,  One;  prep.,  5,  40, 
In. 

Ondo,  vl.t.,  17.     rndo. 

One^,  adv.,  44;  Onys,  6,  7,  18,  45. 
Once. 

Onions,  see  Oynons. 

Ope,  vb.t.,  18.     Cut  open. 

Or  that,  Till  that.  Till,  55. 

Orage,  sb.,  5.  Orach.  Ang.-Fr. 
Or  ache,  Fr.  Arroches,  see  Cotgr.  : 
Lat.  A  triplex,  see  Mow  at,  Alph., 
p.  22. 

Otemele,  sb.,  6,  10;  Ote-mele,  42. 
Oatmeal. 

Oj7er,  conj.,  21,  22,  34.     Or. 

Ouer-cast,  vb.t.,  49  ;  Ouer-caste,  48. 
Turn  over. 

Ouere-coucr,  vb.t.,  85.     Cover  over. 

Ovenne,  sb.,  53  ;  Ovyn,  47,  48,  54  ; 
Ovynne,  50.     Oven. 

Ouer  eve,  20  ;  Oueruyjth,  33,  Over 
night. 

Ouer-renne,  vb.int.,  36,  37.  Overrun, 
run  over. 

Ouer]7wart,  adv.,  40 ;  Oueretwarde, 
115.     Across. 

Ouer-wewyd,  pp.,  25.  Compare 
"  Biweved,  covered,"  Halliwell  : 
wettn/d  is  glossed  "  wasshe,"  i.e. 
washed,  in  A. 

Ouer-wose,  86.  "Washed  over;  com- 
pare A-wese.  Douce  MS.  reads 
"  wese." 

Owrys,  sb.,  7,  37.     Hours. 

Oyle,  sb.,  12,  0.  of  Oly^,  30  ; 
O.  soppes,  96,  115,  O.  soppys,  12, 
see  Napier,  p.  81.     Oil. 


Oynons,  sb.,  6,  110;  Oynonys,  5,  8, 
9,  10  ;  Oynouns,  109  ;  Oyuenons,  14. 
Onions. 

Oystres  en  grauey,  13,  100,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  65,  F.  of  C,  No. 
121  ;  Oystrys  in  g.  bastard,  13  ;  O. 
in  bruette,  23,  see  L.C.C.,  p.  53, 
Warner,  p.  47 ;  0.  in  cevey,  100,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  184,  F.  of  C,  No.  123. 


Paast,  sb.,  74,  97,  105;   Paaste,  98  ; 

Paste  :  see  Past. 
Pacience,    sb.,    69.       Patience    (the 

herb)  :  Snakeweed,  a  kind  of  dock. 
Pancake,  46. 
Panche,      sb.,     82,      panches,      94 ; 

Paunches,  94.     Paunch. 
Panne,  sb.,  42,  43,  forliying;  Erthen 

pannys,  54. 
Panteryse,  59. 
Papyns,  9.     Cotge.,    "■Fapin;     Pap 

for  children." 
Parboyle,  vb.t.,  6,  8,  12,  13,  41  ;  Par- 

boyled,  100  ;  Parboylid,  13.    Parboil. 
P^rboylingge,  adj.,  84,  That  is  being 

parboiled. 
Parcelly  sb.,   72,   81  ;    Pffrcely,  72 ; 

ParciH,  81 .     Parsley.     See  Perceli. 
Parchement,  46. 
Pare,   sb.,   30.      Paring;    peel:     A. 

also  thus. 
Pare,  vb.t.,  7,  12,  16,  24,  27,  30,  34, 

47,  51, 71,  Pare ;  peel  (fruit  and  meat) ; 

Pare  in  ij.  or  in  iij.,  87,  cut  in  two 

or  three. 
Pare^,  Pyej  de,  53,  Pies  of  Parys,  75, 

see  Napier,  p.  58,  Douce  MS.,  No. 

72  ;  Parysgingere,  110.     Paris. 
Paris,  see  Pare]. 

Parsley ;  see  Parcelly  and  Perceli. 
V-AYie,  vb.t.,  2Q,     Part;  divide. 
Partricli  rested,  78,  seeNAPiER,  p.  61, 

Douce  MS.,  No.  109  ;  P.  stwed,  78, 

Pertrich  stewyde,  9,  see  Napier,  p. 

95,  Douce  MS.,  No.  28 ;  Pertriches, 

19  ;  Pertryche,  1.     Partridge. 
Party,  sb.,   20,   27,  40;  Partye,   29, 

40  ;  Parti,  40.     Part. 
Partye,  46,  Party  coloured. 
Past,  sb.,  45,  51  ;  Paste,  39,  41,  98  ; 

Paast,  74,  75.     See  Paast. 


GLOSSARY   AND    INDEX. 


139 


Pastelade,  59,  Pi/delade  chaud,  62, 
P.  fryid,  62,  'Petelade  Fryid,  62. 
Pastelet,  ?  Pasty  :  it  may  be  a 
pounded  dish. 

Payne  Pujfe,  61,  68  ;  Payn  pur-dew, 
42,  P.  purdeuj,  83  ;  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  7,  Napier,  p.  46,  "  Payn  par- 
dieu  ; "  Peynreguson,  112,  see  F.  of 
C,  No.  67,  "  Payn  Ragon  \  "  there  is 
also  "  Payn  Fondew "  in  F.  of  C, 
No.  59.  "  Payn  purdew  "  may  be 
compared  with  "  Payn  Fondew,"  the 
bread  being  lost  or  covered  in  what 
is  poured  on  it,  and  possibly  dissolved 
in  the  "  Payn  Fondew."  In  Napier 
the  bread  is  smothered  in  Batter, 
here  apparently  in  butter.  See  also 
LiTTRE,  "  Pain,  10.  Pain  perdu, 
nom  donne  en  cuisine  provinciale,  k 
la  brioche  frite."  For  "Payn  Pufte," 
see  Pety  Peiiiantes. 

Paynemain,  sb.,  8,  11,  52;  Payne- 
maynne,  11  ;  Paynemaynnys,  11  ; 
Paynmain,  83;  A  Paynmain,  i.e.  a 
loaf  of  the  bread,  90 ;  Paynmaii,  83. 
"Floure  of  payndemayn"  ismentioned 
in  L.C.C.,  p.  40.  Painmain  is  appa- 
rently the  same  asManchet  bread  (see 
Payn  purdeuz  on  p.  83),  and  its  full 
form  seems  Pain  Manchet  or  Pain 
de  Manchet.  Manchet  is  possibly 
"Manchet,"  or  "Manchot,"  and  refers 
to  the  short  curtailed  character  of 
Roll  bread.  Note  the  round  sops 
of  the  "  paynemajamys"  in  Recipe 
xxix,  on  p.  11.  The  gradual  curtail- 
ing of  the  word  is  shewn  on  conii^a- 
rison  of  "  Manged  brede,"  at  p.  83, 
and  "Mengyd  Flowre"  on  p.  43, 
with  "Meyned  flour"  and  "  Maynch 
brede"  in  the  Douce  MS.  O.F.  Pain 
demaine,  Latin  "Panem  dominicum," 
is  generally  given  as  derivation. 

Peacock,  see  Pecok. 

Pear,  see  Pere. 

Pecej,  sb.,  Pccys,  6,  7,  8,  12.    Pieces. 

Pecher,  Pechir,  sb.,  39.     Pitcher. 

Pecok  rested,  79,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
128  ;  Pokokkys,  58. 

Peinns,  67,  Peions  rosted,  68,  Sauce  for 
peiou«s,  109  ;  Pyionys,  58,  Pigeons. 
For  "  Pegions  steived,"  see  Napier, 
p.  107,  F.  of  C,  No.  48,  L.C.C.,  p.  14. 


Pele,  sb.,b\;  Pelys,  50.  Paker's  Peel. 

Pele,  vb.t.,  8,  Pyle,  8;  Pylle,  12,  26. 
Peel  ;  skin. 

Peletre,  110,  Pellitory. 

Pelettys,  Pellettys,  sb.,  31,  34,  39. 
Pellets. 

Peny  brede,  7,  18,  97,  106,  Penny's 
breadth.  In  first  example  read 
"they"  (  =  the)  "peny  brede." 

Pepir,  sb.,  10,  15,  55  ;  Pepyr,  8,  10; 
Perpir,  40  ;  Piper,  109.     Pepper. 

Pepyn,  sb.,  32.  Apparently  Pr. 
Pepin,  the  seed  of  fruit,  CoTGR.  :  it 
seems  a,pplied  to  the  germinating 
part  of  the  pease. 

Perase,  22,  Fryid  Gyngerc  perase, 
?  Ginger  parings,  or  "  pares." 

Perceli,  sb.,  6  ;  Percely,  5,  7,  10,  15, 
Percile,  21.  Fr.  Persil,  Parsley.  See 
Parcelly. 

Perche  boiled,  102,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  135,  Napier,  p.  75  ;  Perchys, 
21,  26.     Perch. 

Pere  Wardones,  Peer  Wardens,  88, 
Pere  Wardonys,  12,  "Warden  Pears, 
see  Wardons  ;  Peris  in  Syrippe,  87, 
58,  59  ;  P.  en  composte,  12,  87,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  57,  and  F.  of  C. 
has  "  Peeves  in  confyt,"  No.  132 ; 
Perys,  24,  25,  37,  54.     Pear. 

Pereye,  sb.,  32 ;  Perre  (Pease),  83, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  9,  Blaunche 
Perreye  (Pease),  32,  see  Warner, 
p.  85,  "■Perre"  (Pease),  F.  of  C., 
No.  70,  '•'•Perrey  of  Peson,"  Warner, 
p.  66,  ''Porre  'of  Peson,"  L.C.C., 
p.  44,  "  Porry  of  lohite  Pese  "  ; 
Blawnche  Perry  e  (Leeks),  14, 
Blanche  porrey  (Leeks),  90,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  84,  L.C.C.,  p.  44, 
*■'•  Blaunchyd  porray,"  Warner,  pp. 
51,  85,  (Leeks).  There  is  also 
a  "  Porrey  Chapeleyn  "  in  Warner, 
p.  49,  made  up  of  Onions,  Olive  oil, 
and  Almond  milk,  boiled  together. 
See  DucANGE,  "Porrecta,  Jusculum 
ex  porisconfectum,"also/'o;Trtto.  It 
would  almost  appear  as  if  Piiree 
{  — Purata,  strained,)  and  Porree 
{  =  Po7-rata)  got  confused. 

Pesone,  Longe  Wortes  de,  89,  Lange 
wortes  de  Pesoun,  5,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  2  ;  Pesyn,s6.,  5,  32,Whyte 


140 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOKS. 


P.  in  Grauey,  33 ;  Peys  de  almayne, 

114.     Pease. 
Pestel,  sh.,  6.     Pestle. 
Pestelle,    Siryppe    pur    vn,    40,   see 

Napier,  p.  46,  '■'■  Festelles  of  pork 
endored."  Pestel  is  still  vised  for  a 
leg  of  pork. 

Pesyn,  Mortrewes  of,  90,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  82  ;  Fr.  poisson,  fish. 

Petelade,  see  Pastelade. 

Pety  Pemauntes,  51,  74  (2  recipes), 
Pety  Pernollys,  50.  These  seem  to 
be  the  same  dishes,  with  different 
spelling,  but  representing  possibly 
the  same  word  ;  as  the  recipe  on 
page  50  is  the  same  as  that  on  page 
74.  The  dish  is  identified  with  Payn 
Puff"  in  F.  of  C,  No.  196,  and  is 
glossed  "  Pety  panel  a  marchpayne  ", 
in  Leland's  Collecta^iea,  VI.,  page  6  ; 
this  would  give  a  Mnt  of  the  origin 
of  the  word,  which  is  equivalent  to 
the  Italian  "  Panello,  any  little  loaf, 
bun,  roul,  or  manchet,"  Florio;  the 
Puffs  being  like  little  loaves,  or  buns. 
I'here  is  also  the  Italian  Panella, 
with  same  signification.  See  F.  of  C, 
Nos.  195,  196,  '■^  Pety  Pernaunt" 
Douce  MS.,  Nos.  8  and  58.  The 
dish  is  spelt  "  Pety  penieux,"  in  the 
Banquets  on  pages  58,59  of  this  book. 

Peuard,  Brawne  in,  71,  Braun  en 
Peuerade,  11,  12,  the  same  dish : 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  47,  F.  of  C, 
No.  135,  Warner,  p.  79,  '■'■Boor  hi 
peverarde,  or  Boor  in  egredo^ice" 
Recipes  for  the  Sauce  are  given  in 
F.  of  C,  No.  135,  "-Pevorat  for  Veel 
and  Venyson"  and  in  Warner,  p. 
64,  "Pevrate  sauce."  It  is  the  French 
Poivrade,  sauce  made  with  pepper  : 
see  Piper. 

Pewter  dysshe,  26,  42. 

Peynregusoii,  112. 

Peys  de  almayne,  114,  Pease  and 
almond  milk. 

Pheasant,  see  Fesaunt. 

Pie,  see  Crustade. 

Pies  of  Parys,  75,  Pyej  de  parej,  53, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  72,  Napier,  p. 
58,  Paris  Pies  ;  Gretepyes,  76.  See 
Crustade. 

Pigeon,  see  Peions. 

Pigge   or  chikefi  in  Sauge,   72,   see 


Warner,  p.  56,  " Pygges  in  sauge"; 
Pigge  Farced,  82,  Pygge  y-farsyd, 
40,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  37.  Aj^parently 
sucking  i>igs. 

Pike  en  galentsme,  101  (2  Recipes), 
see  Napier,  p.  79,  Douce  MS.,  No. 
75,  No.  151  ;  Pike  boyled,  101, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  131  ;  Pike  in 
brass,  101,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  73, 
Napier,  p.  34,  "Pyk  in  Braisselle,^' 
p.  79,  "Ax-  in  Brasy,"  Warner, 
p.  86,  "Pik  or  tenche  in  Brasyle  "  ; 
there  is  also  '■'■  Pyk  in  sauce"  in 
Napier,  p.  96. 

Pikkyll  pour  le  Mallard,  77,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  19,  Pickle  :  L.C.C.,  p.  31, 
has  "■Pyhtlle,'"  (Capons). 

Piper  for  feel  and  for  venysoun,  110, 
see  F.  of  C,  No.  135.  Poivrade, 
Pepper  Sauce.     See  Peuard. 

Pipes,  sh.,  70 ;  Pypis,  8.  Bronchial 
tubes  :  ?  lungs,  generally. 

Plais,  sh.,  103,  Plaise  boiled,  103,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  140  ;  Plays,  26,  103, 
105  ;  Playse,  103.     Plaice. 

Plante,  vh.t.,  25,  27;  Plonte,  98. 
Plant. 

Platere,  sh.,  17,  27,  41,  114.    Platter. 

Platte,  adj.,  44. 

Plie,  vh.t.,  113.  Ply;  fold. 

Ploni,  vh.t.,  76.    Plump,  into  a  pot. 

Plouer,  79,  Plouer  rost,  117,  see 
Napier,  p.  64. 

Pocerounce,  3  ;  Pokerounce,  41. 

Poche,  Eyron  en,  24.  Poached  eggs ; 
see  Eggys. 

Poddyng,  41,  see  Puddyng. 

Poke,  114.     8ee  Poiiche. 

Pokokkys,  58.     Peacocks. 

Polettys,  38.     Pullets. 

Pome  dorreng,  58,  see  Warner,  p.  58, 
"  Pondorroge  "  :  the  "  orroge  "  is  ap- 
parently orange,  the  Pommes  being 
coloured  yellow.  Pome  dorres,  38, 
Pomez  endoryd,  63,  see  Warner,  p. 
89,  "-Pomes  Dorre,"  II.  No.  42, 
"  Pomme  dorry"  F.  of  C,  No.  174, 
'■'■  Ponime  dorryes,"  L.C.C.,  p.  37, 
"  Fowme  dorrysP  So  called  from  the 
Pommes,  or  Rissoles,  being  endored, 
or  glazed,  with  yolk  of  egg.  Pomes- 
moille,  113,  see  Warner,  p.  46, 
" Pommys    movies"    i.e.    "  Pommes 


GLOSSARY    AND   INDEX. 


141 


.  molles,"  or  crashed  apples.  Pom- 
mes,  1  ;  Poumes,  14  ;  Pomys,  62  ; 
Powmys,  15  ;  see  Napier,  p.  120. 
Pompe,  31  ;  Pompys,  34  ;  Pumpes, 
31.  All  the  above  are  variations  of  the 
French  pomme,  applied  to  globular 
lumps  of  minced  meat  :  compare 
"Pome  di  sdegno,  a  kind  of  made 
dish,  that  Cooks  make  round  as 
apples." — Florio.  In  A.  the  "pom- 
pys," on  page  31,  are  called  "pepyngis," 
or  pippins. 
Pome-garnade,  sh.,  28  ;  Pome-garned, 
30  ;  Pome-gamej,  38,  applied  here 
to  Rissoles,  in  the  same  way  as  the 
Pommes  above.  Pomegranate. 
Pomppe,    si.,    24,    Pulp :     A.   reads 

here  "  Pappe." 
Pond,  sh.,  114.     Pound. 
Poper,  63. 

Porcelle  farce  enforce,  58,   ?  Sucking 
Pig  stuffed   and    made   rich  :    Por- 
cellys,  58. 
Porcyon,  «5.,  9,  10,  18,  25;  PorcyouM, 

11,  18.    Portion. 
Pore,  vh.t.,  16,  26.     Pour. 
Porke,  6,  14,  19,  etc. 
Porpeys,    Sturgeon    pour,    105,    see 
Napier,  p.  53,  '■'■  Porpas,  sturgion  or 
turbut,^'  (baked)  ;  Firmenty  with,  p. 
105,  Furmenty  with  purpaysse,  17, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.   171,  F.  of  C, 
No.  69,  and  No.  116,  Napier,  p.  86, 
Warxer,  p.  66  ;  Puddyng  of  p.,  42  ; 
F.  of  C,  No.  108,  has  "  Parpens  in 
broth."     Porpoise. 
Porpoise,  see  Porpeys. 
Porrey,  Blanche,  90,  see  Pereye. 
Poshote,  sh.,   15,   36;  Poshotte,   36. 

Posset. 
Possenet,  «5.,  23,  72.  Posnet ;  small 
pot.  "  A  little  brasse  pot  or  posnet, 
Een  koper  pothen  ofte  ketelken." — 
1660,  Hexham. 
Potage,  33,  8,  10,  11,  16  ;  P.  on  a 
fysshday,  15,  29  ;  P.  colde,  30  ;  P. 
of  Ptoysons,  30  ;  P.  de  egges,  94, 
called  in  Douce  MS.,  No.  100,  ''Pocched 
egges";  P.  of  ris,  114;  Erode canelle 
Potage,  i.e.,  Whole  Cinnamon  Soup, 
59 ;  Compost  Potage,  p.  59 ;  Warner, 
p.  51,  has  "  Potage  de  frumenty,"  and 
"  Potage  of  rys,"  at  p.  46. 


Poteli,  sh.,  94  ;   Potelle,  22  ;    Pottel, 

73.  Pottle  ;  two  quarts. 
Poterous,  93,  Petrous,  53  ;  see  F."of 
C,  177,  "Potews,"  which  is  probably 
its  right  form,  like  ]\Iortrews,  the 
termination  representing  the  liquid 
I  :  see  Ducange,  Potellus,  0.  Fr. 
Potel.  The  dish  was  made  in  pots, 
which  were  afterwards  broken,  but 
in  this  volume  coffins  of  paste  are 
used.  Compare  "Sachus"  in  F.  of 
C,  No.  178,  made  in  bags  (0.  Fr. 
sachel),  and  see  Bourreys. 

Pouche,  «i.,  101,  102;  Powche,  103; 
Pouuche,  101  ;  Poke,  114.  Poche, 
stomach  of  fish. 

Pouder,  Kecipe  Cj.,  p.  24,  powdered 
spice  generally ;  Poudre,  113,  Poudur, 
112,  ? pepper;  Pouder  Canelle,  20, 
38,  Poudre  canel,  109  ;  Powder  Canel, 
11,  P.  of  Canelle,  20  ;  Pouder  of 
Clowes,  97 ;  Poudi*e  of  clowes,  109  ; 
Pouder  of  gyngere,  7,  19,  Poudre  of 
gyngere,  108,  Poudre  ginger,  109, 
PouJ^er  Gyngere,  19,  Powder  Gyngere, 
8,  9,  10,  of  Gyngere,  20 ;  Poudre 
piper,  109,  Powder  Pepyr,  10,  11,  14 ; 
Pouudre,  116;  Clowys  powj'er,  14; 
Pouder  Marchaunt,  Pulverized  spices, 
25. 

Powajes,  27  :  ?  meaning.  A.  reads 
"  powares." 

Powder,  see  Pouder. 

Powderd,  adj.,  14;  Poudrid,  91. 
Powdered  ;  salted. 

Powdryng  of  beef,  Salting  of  beef, 
69  ;  this  probably  ought  to  read, 
"a  nijt  powdryng  of  beef,"  with  no 
comma  there. 

Pownche,  sh.,  7.     Paunch. 

Powre,  vh.t.,  87.     Pour. 

Poynant,  adj.,  33  ;  Poynaunt,  6  ; 
P.  &  dowcet,  7,  33.  Poignant  ; 
piquant  with  vinegar. 

Poynte  with  Venegre,  29.  Point, 
make  acid  :  Fr.  poindre. 

Prenade,  91,  in  Douce  MS.,  No.  105, 
"  Brewes "  :  possibly  this  ought  to 
read  "  Prez<ade,"  and  is  a  perversion. 

Prik,  sh.,  82.     Prick ;  pin,  skewer. 

Prik,  vh.t.,  82,  skewer;  Prycke,  36, 
Prick ;  stick. 


142 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOKS. 


Primrose,  see  Prymerose. 

Prune  J,  51,  52.     Prunes. 

Piymerose,  25,  29,  see  Napiek,  p.  56, 
'•'Pryraerolle."     Primrose. 

Puddyng  of  Purpaysse,  42  ;  Poddjmg 
of  Capoun  necke,  41  ;  Puddyng  de 
Swan  necke,  61. 

Pul,  vh.t.,  P.  dry,  79,  PuH  dry,  78, 
79,  Pluck  clean  ;  Pulle,  9. 

PuJcynges  farce),  58,  Pulsona  farce,  61, 
(misprinted  Pulsous),  Pr.  Poussin  ; 
chicken. 

Pullayii,  67,  Pullets. 

Pured  buttur,  103,  Clarified  butter. 

Pygge  y-farysd,  40  ;  Pygge  in  sage, 
59,  63,  see  Warner,  p.  56 ;  Pyggys, 
25. 

Pyk,"sJ.,  106  ;  Pyke,  16  ;  Pykys,  26, 
30.     Pike  (the  fish),  see  Pike. 

Pyke,  vb.t.,  10.     Pick:  see  Pike. 

Pyle,  vh.t.,  8.     Peel. 

Pylt,  vh.t.,  21.  Put. 

Pyn,  sh.,  7;  Pynne,  11.     Pin. 

Pynade,  34,  see  Warner,  p.  49, 
''Pynade,"  F.  of  C,  No.  51,  "i>n- 
nonade."  Pyuenade  in  paste,  60, 
possibly  ought  also  to  be  Pyuenade. 
The  dish  is  named  from  the  Pines, 
or  "Pynotys"  in  it:  the  other  recipes 
read  "pynes." 

Pynes,  sh.,  95,  97 ;  Pynej,  24,  Pynej 
and  clowys,  53  ;  Pynys,  15,  16,  22, 
75,  91,  94  ;  in  this  last  case  the  Douce 
MS.  reads  "  pepyr  pynes,"  or  whole 
pepper,  but  all  the  examples  may 
not  mean  pepper,  as  the  seeds  of  fir 
pines  seem  to  have  been  used. 

Pynotys,  34  :  ?  Pine  nuts  or  cones. 

Pypis,  see  Pipes. 
Pystelade,  see  Pasielade. 


Quantite,  sh.,  5,  6.     Quantity. 
Quart,  sh.,  35;  Quarte,  101. 
Quart<;r,     sh.,     106 ;     Quarteren    of 

ponder  caneH,  101.     Quart. 
Quarter,  sh.,  Fore  q.,  8  ;  Quarterys, 

6,  31,  49. 
Quarter,  vb.t.,  18.    Cut  in  quarters. 
Quayle  rested,   79,   see  Douce  MS., 

Ko.  115,  Napier,  p.  61. 


Quayle,  vi.int.,  27.      Curdle.      Fr. 

cailler. 
Quibibes,  sh.,  6,  37,  113;   Quybibes, 

19,  20,  21  ;  Quybibej,  24,  46  ;  Quy- 

bibys,  15  ;  Quybybis,  13.     Cubebs. 
Quince,  see  Quynces. 
Quyk,  rtr//'.,  99.     Quick;  alive. 
Quynade,  27,  see  "  Connat,^''  in  F.  of 

C,  No.    18.     So   called  from  being 

made  of  Quinces  :  compare  Applade. 
Quynces,  27,  51  ;  Q.  or  Wardones  in 

paast,  97,  51,  Quyncis,  51  ;  Quyncys 

in  comfyte,  58,  i.e.,  preserved  Quinces ; 

Charde-quynce,     12,     13  ;     Chared 

coneys,     or     chardwardon,     106 ; 

Quynes  bakyn,  69. 
Quyschons,  40  :  compare  Cushion  of 

Bacon. 
Quystis  scune,  8,  see  Napier,  p.  44, 

"  Quystis  "  :    ?  "  stuue,"     not    scune. 

Cushats,  wood-pigeons  :  A.S.  cusceote. 


Rabbit,  see  next,  and  Conyng. 

Rabette  rosted,  81,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  117,  Napier,  p.  64. 

Raisins,  see  Rasonys. 

Rales,  69.     Rails  ;  Landrails. 

Ransched,  pp.,  39.     Rinsed. 

Rape,  113,  Rapeye,  30,  48,  (Fish),  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  164,  " Rapes," 'Sa- 
PIER,  p.  118,  "  Eape  of  Fisshe"  ; 
Rapes,  95,  Rapeye,  16,  (two  Recipes), 
28,  43  (Fruit),  see  F.  of  C,  No.  83, 
L.C.C.,  p.  16,  Napier,  p.  109,  ''Rape," 
Warner,  p.  49,  "Rapee,"  and  II. 
No.  49,  "  Bapy "  ;  Rapeye  of 
Fleysshe,  25,  see  Warner,  p.  45. 

Rasinges,  Rasons,  88.  Shavings, 
parings. 

Rasonys,  sb.,  23  ;  Raysonys,  30,  52, 
of  Coraunce,  14 ;  Eaysounys,  51  ; 
Eeysons  of  coraunce,  75  ;  Potage  of 
Roysons,  30,  Roysons  of  Corauns, 
16 ;  Roysouns  Coraunce,  22 ;  Roy- 
sonys,  16,  22,  28,  of  coraunce,  13,  31, 
of  Corauns,  15,  29  ;  Currants.  Crete 
Reysons,  97,  G.  Reysynges,  75,  Gret 
Roysonys,  47,  Raisins,  in  modem 
usage. 

Rastons,  52,  98,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  63,  "  Rastomirs."  "  Raston  :  A 
fashion   of  round,   and    high    Tart, 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


143 


made  of  butter,  egges,  and  cheese." 
A.  spells  this  "  Eascons,"  and  glosses 
it  as  "  rascoris,"  and  the  word  might 
be  "  Eastoiiiirs,"  above. 
Ray  boiled  103,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 

145,  ''Ri/gh  huille" 
Raynollef,  42  ;  Raynollys,  3 ;  see 
Warner,  p.  81,  "  Raynecles."  '■^Rai/- 
molles  de  blanc  de  chapon.  The 
brawne  of  a  Capon,  Raisins  of  the 
Sunne,  and  maiTow  shred  all  to- 
gether, then  made  into  little  cakes  or 
leaues,  and  fryed  with  seame  or  Hogs 
sewet,  and  serued  vp  with  sugar 
strewed  on  them." — Cotgr. 
Red  Wyne,    10,    26;   E.  Rosys,  24; 

Eede  Rose,  29,  R.  vyne,  112. 
Eeke,  fi.^.,29.  Reek;  heat  over  coals. 
Remenaimt,  sh.,  12.     Remnant. 
Renge,  sh.,  38.     Ring  Strainer. 
Renne,   vh.inf.,  11,   26,  44,     Ronne, 

pp.  44.     Run. 
Renneng,  adj.,  44;  Rennyng,  6,  9,  15, 

19;  Rennynge,94.  Running  ;  fluid. 
Rennyn,  vh.inf.,  25.     Run. 
Rew,  sb.,  53.     Row. 
Rejge,  sh.,  11.     The  Ray:  see  Ray. 
Ris,  sh.,  114;  Rys,  22,   see  Napier, 
p.  82,  p.  108,  L.C.C.,   p.    16  ;  Rys 
mollies,   113,   see  Warner,  p.  46  ; 
Potage  of  ris,  114,  see  Warner,  p. 
46  ;  Rys  MoLeyn),  59  ;  Warner,  pp. 
62,  74,  has  also  "  Rys  Licmbarde  "  ; 
Rys,  12,  14  ;  Flowrc  of  rys,  13. 
Risschewes,  de  frute,  97,  Risshewes, 
93  (Fruit),  Ryschewys  in  lente,  43, 
(Fruit  and  Fish),  R.  close  et  Fryej, 
45,  R.  close,  112,  (Fruit),  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  88,  F.  of  C,  No.  182  ;  Rissh- 
shewes,   98 ;    Risshewes  de  Mary, 
85,  Ryschewys  of  marow,  44,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  87  ;  L.C.G.,  p.  39, 
Warner,  p.  65  (Flesh).     Now  Ris- 
sole :  see  Cotg.,  "  Rissolle  :  A  lewes 
eare  ;  or  Mushrome  thats  fashioned 
likeaDemie-circle,  and  grows  cleaning 
to  trees  ;  also,  a  small  and  delicate 
minced  Pie,  made  of  that  fashion." 
Roche,  sh.,  20,  Breme  or  Roche  boiled, 
102,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  138  ;  Rochys, 
21.     Roach. 
Roddys  ende,  52.     Rod's  end. 
RoUe,  Cruste,  46. 


Roppis,  sh.,  39.  Ropes;  guts.  See 
Holme,  II.  vii.  132,  "  Sheeps  Belly, 
or  Intrals,the  puddings  called  strings, 
or  Rope." 

Rose,  Rede,  29  ;  Red  Rosys,  24, 

Roseye,  24.  So  called  from  being 
made  of  Roses ;  see  Warner,  II, 
No.  41,  and  No.  47,  F.  of  C,  No.  52: 
Warner,  No.  47,  has  no  roses  in  it. 

Roste,  vh.t.,  12,  14,  Roste  him  on  a 
gredire,  103.     Roast. 

Rosty,  vb.int.,  15.     Roast. 

Rove  of  the  mouthe,  78.     Roof. 

Rowys,  114.     Roe  of  fish. 

Ruchet,  60,  see  Napier,  p.  74, 
'''•Gurnard  or  Rochet.''''  Comp.  Fr. 
Rochau.  Rock-Fish,  and  see  Florid, 
'•'•Roccate,  the  Cook-fish,  or  Sea- 
thrush,  " 

Ruschewys,  45,  see  Risschewes. 

Ryal,  adj.,  40 ;  Ryalle,  21,  22  ; 
Ryaly,  2,  Ryally,  17.  Royal  :  Roy- 
ally. The  Cookeries  also  say  "  fit 
for  a  lord  "  ;  in  same  sense. 

Rybbys,  sh.,  6,  8,  10,  26.     Ribs. 

Ryght,  adv.,  5;  Ryth  wyl,  20, 
Rythte  smal,  37  ;  Ryjt  fatte,  35, 
Ryjth  smal,  46  ;  Ryjth,  6,  8. 

Rynsche,  vh.t.,  24,     Rinse;  splash, 

Ryjt,  see  Ryght. 


Saake,  Bruette,  27,  Sake,  2 ;  see 
Warner,  p.  78,  '■^Browet  seeke." 

Sad  or  flatte,  92.     Douce  MS.,  and. 

Saf,  vh.t.,  39.     Save. 

Saferon,  sh.,  70 ;  Saferouil,  43  ; 
Safron,  5,  9  ;  Safrou?i,  6,  10,  13,  15, 
26  ;  Sapheron,  70.     Safiron. 

Saffron,  see  Saferon. 

Safroun,t'5.i5.,  32,  49.     Saffron. 

Salmon  fressli  boiled,  102,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  132  ;  Samofi  roste  in 
Sauce,  102,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  169, 
Napier,  p.  97  :  Salmond,  102  ; 
Samond,  100  ;  Samoun,  16. 

Salome,  Capoun  in,  33  ;  Salomene,  21 ; 
Soupes  of  Salomere,  35. 

Salt,  vh.t.,  32,  41. 

Samaca,  59,  Frutoure  Samata,  62 ; 
see    Napier,    p.    45,    '■^  Samartard." 


144 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOKS. 


The  first  example  should  be  Samata. 
The  Fritter  is  made  of  Flour,  Curds, 
Eggs,  Cream,  and  Grease,  aud  is 
served  with  sugar  on  it. 

Sardeyne^,  24. 

Sareson,  Bruette,  19  ;  Saug  saraser, 
113,  Sauke  Sarsoun,  30.  Fr.  Sarra- 
siiie  ;  Saracen. 

Sauces  ;  Sauce  alepeuere,  108,  Sauce 
oylepeuer,  77,  see  Napier,  p.  77, 
">S.  a//>er,"DouceMS.,No.  94,"*S'«M?<ce 
alpeuere "  ;  Sauce  camelyne,  109, 
Sauce  gamelyne,  77,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  92,  '' Sauuce  camely7i"  Napier, 
p.  48,  '■'■Sauce  c.  for  quaylle"  F.  of 
C,  No.  144,  '■'■  Smise  camelyne" 
L.C.C.,  p.  30  ;  Sauce  Galentyne,  77, 

108,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  98,  Napier, 
p.  77,  F.  of  C,  No.  138,  L.C.C.,  p.  30, 
Warner,  p.  64 ;  Sauce  gauncile, 
110,  Sauce  sermstele,  77,  (called 
"  S.  gav.ncell"  in  Douce  MS.,  No.  93), 
see  L.C.C.,  p.  29,  Warner,  p.  65, 
"  Gaunsell  for  gese "  (see  Gauncely)  ; 
Sauce  gynger,  77,  Sauce  gingyuer, 

109,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  96, 
Napier,  p.  77,  F.  of  C,  No.  139, 
Warner,  p.  64,  L.C.C.,  p.  52  ; 
Sauce  for  a  gos,  109  ;  Sauce  newe 
for  malardis,  110,  see  L.C.C.,  p.  27, 
and  Black  sauce,  below ;  Sauce  for 
peiouHS,  109  ;  Sauce  percely,  110  ; 
Sauce  rous,  109,  Fr.  jRo2(sse, 
ruddy  ;  Saug  saraser,  113  ;  Sauke 
Sarsoun,  30,  see  F.  of  C,  No.  84, 
"  Sawse  Sarzyne"  or  Saracen  ;  Sauce 
sermstele,  see  S.  gauncile ;  Sauce 
Sorell,  77,  Surelle,  110,  Fr.  Surelle, 
Sorrel  ;  Sauce  for  shulder  of  moton, 
110  ;  Sauce  for  stokefysshe  (two 
Recipes),    109 ;    Sauce    Verte,    77, 

110,  Green  Sauce,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  95,  Napier,  p.  77,  F.  of  C,  No. 
140,  Warner,  p.  64;  Black  sauce 
for  Capo^ms  y-rostyde,  110,  see 
F.  of  C,  No.  137,  AVarner,  p.  64, 
on  which  page  is  "Black  Sauce  for 
Mallai'd"  (for  which  also  see  F.  of  C, 
No.  141);  White  sauce  for  capons 
y-sode,  110,  see  F.  of  C,  No.  136, 
L.C.C.,  p.  28,  Warner,  p.  64  :  F.  of 
C.  No.  30,  has  also  ^'■Saivse  madame." 
See  Pikkyl  and  Ptper,  in  Glossary. 

Sauereye,  sb.,  18.     Savory. 


Sauge,     28,     Sauoge,     41,     compare 

''Sawgeat,"    in  F._  of   C,    No.    161  ; 

Pigge    or    chikefl    in    Sauge,    72 ; 

Sawge,  2,  6,  8,  10,  17,  20,.  28.     The 

herb  Sage. 
Sauke  Sarsoun,  30,  see  Sauces. 
Saimderys,  si.,  12,  15,  16,  21 ;  Sawn- 

derys,  8,  12,  13.     Saunders. 
Saused,  pp.,  72.     Soused;  salted. 
Sawcere,  sb.,  22,  42.     Saucer. 
Sayn,  vb.int.,  33.     Say. 
Scalde,  vb.t.,  S.  with  hey  or  strawe, 

99,  100  ;  Skalde,  18,  32.     Scald. 
Schake  out,  109,  Shake  out. 
Schale,  vb.t.,  13.     Shell. 
Schap,  sb.,  53.     Shape. 
Scharpe,  adj.,  38.     Sharp. 
Schene,  vb.t.,  23.     Skin;  shell:  A. 

reads  Skene. 
Schcpe,  sb.,  40.     Sheep. 
Schere,  tZ».!;.,  40  ;  Shere,  11.    Shear; 

slice. 
Schevres,    sb.,    40.       Shivers ;    thin 

strips. 
Schoche,    vb.t.,    101  ;    Skoche,    101. 

Scotch  ;  notch. 
Schoppe,  vb.t.,  9.     Chop. 
Schorge,  vb.int.,  42.     Scorch. 
Schort  &  ]7ikke,  52. 
Schouyl,  sb.,  53.     Shovel. 
Schrede,  vb.t.,  8,  10,  29;  Screde,  30. 

Shred. 
Schrympe,     sb.,    42,     Shrimp ;     see 

Shrympes. 
Schul,    vb.,    30,    Shall;    Schuld,   19, 

Should  ;  Schuldyst,  45,  Shouldest. 
Schulle,    sb.,   24,   42  ;    Schullys,   23. 

Shell.     A.  reads  "  schyllys." 
Sculle,  sb.,  80 ;  SkoH,  79.     Scull. 
Sefe,  sb.,  20  ;   Seve,  32 ;  Her  syue, 

Hair  sieve,  113. 
Self,  adj.,  19,  23;   Seine,  32;   Sylf, 

14.     Self ;  same  :  compare  Selfsame. 
Senglere,  Teste  de,  enarme),  57,  Boars 

head    and   tusks  :    Blanke   singuler 

leche,  69.     Fr.  Sanglier,  Wild  boar. 
Serge,  vb.t.,  20,  Sift:  s^elt  Sarge  in  A. 
Serue  forth  (to  table),   6,   10,  etc. ; 

Seruyst  in,  6. 
S^ruyce,  sb.,  34.     Service. 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


145 


Sesyn,  vh.t.,  19  ;  S.  vp,  10,  12. 
Season. 

Sethe,  vh.t.,  6,  12;  Sc>in,  pp.,  32; 
Sith,  90  :  Seth,  vh.int,  99.  Seethe. 
Sethe  iu  Eecipe  vj,  p.  6,  is  sette 
in  A. 

Sew,  sh.,  18;  Colouryd  S.  -without 
fyre,  20,  see  Napier,  p.  38;  Sew 
trappe,  54,  so  called  from  the  pans 
or  Trapes  in  which  it  is  made.  These 
are  solids.  Sew  lumbarde,  58.  Sewe, 
9,  17,  20,  99.  Broth.  Mayhew  & 
Skeat  derive  Sew  from  A.S.  seaw, 
bnt  it  is  suspiciously  like  the  French 
Ciud,  or  Sine,  see  Cotgr.  ;  compare 
"Harus  in  a  sewe,"  L.C.C.,  p.  21, 
Hares  or  Gonynges  in  seue,  Warner, 
p.  78,  where  it  represents  Ciu6.  At 
the  same  time  Mr.  Mayhew  does  not 
think  it  possible.  Cine,  however,  is 
used  for  a  liquid  without  onions, 
upon  page  49  :  see  Errata. 

Scwet,  s^.,  41.     Suet:  see  Suet. 

Shrympes,  103.     Shrimps. 

Sirip,  si.,  12,  40  ;  Sirippe,  15  ; 
Siryppe  p«r  un  pestelle,  40  ;  Syrip, 
11  ;  Syi-ippe,  3,  15,  21,  Peris  in 
syrippe,  87  ;  Wardonys  in  syryp, 
7  ;  Syryppe,  13,  21.     Syrup. 

Sith,  vh.t.,  90.     Seethe. 

Sitting  to,  107.     Sticking. 

Skalde,  vh.t.,  18,  32;  Skaldyd,  24; 
Skladdyd,  25.  Scald :  see  Scaldo. 
On  p.  32,  ?read  "skalde  he»i"  [wit/i 
hey]. 

Skaldyng  hote,  17. 

Skeme,  vh.t.,  7.     Skim. 

Sket,  sh.,  102.  Scotch:  Douce  MS. 
has  sJcoch. 

Skilfully  thik,  101,  Skylfully  \\kke, 
8,  Eeasonably,  nicely  thick. 

Skluce,  sh.,  25.     Viscous  compound. 

SkoH,  sh.,  79.     Skull. 

Skore,  vh.t.,  25  ;  Skoure,  45.     Scour. 

Skrape,  vh.t.,  18.     Scrape. 

Skym,  vh.t.,  22.     Skim  :  see  Skeme. 

Skymer,  sh.,  44;  Skymoure,  17,  54. 
Skimmer. 

Skyn,  sh.,  11  ;  Skynne,  26;  Skynnys, 
26.     Skin. 


Slake,  adj.,  21  {Flake  is  printed 
here).  Slack ;  lukewarm  :  warm 
in  A. 

Sle,  vh.t.,  78,  79.     Slay. 

Slepyr,  adj.,  23.  Slippery;  greasy. 
A.  reads  "  sliper." 

Smal,  adj.,  10;  Smaller  or  gretter,  15. 

Smoth,  adj.,  77.     Smooth. 

Smyte,  vh.t.,  6,  13.     Smite;  chop. 

Snyte,  80  ;  Snyte  rest,  117 ;  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  120,  L.C.C.,  p.  35, 
"  ^Yodcok,  sny)t,  andcurlue,''  Napier, 
p.  65,  '^Snyt  rost " ;  Snytys,  58. 

Sode,  adj.,  42.     Sodden. 

Soft,  adv.,  22,  Softe,  17,  Softly; 
SofFter  and  sofFtere,  17. 

Soke,  vh.t.,  S.  out,  25.  Soak  out ; 
let  soak  out. 

Sokingly,  adv.,  boile  s.,  72.  Soak- 
ingly  ;  thoroughly  :  still  used  thus. 

Sole,  boiled,  rost,  or  fryed,  103,  see 
Douce  MS._,  No.  141  ;  Napier,  p.  71, 
has  "Sole  in  brase." 

Soperys,  sh.,  46,  55.     Suppers. 

Soppes  Dorre,  90,  Soupes  dorrees, 
114,  Soupes  dorye,  11,  S.  dorroy, 
11,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  51,  F.  of  C, 
No.  82,  Warner,  p.  46,  L.C.C.,  p. 
14,  Napier,  p.  107  ;  Lyode  Soppes, 
11  ;  S.  Jamberlayne,  11,  Soppes 
pour  Chamberleyne,  90,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  52,  "  Soupes  Chamberlain" ; 
Oyle  Soppys,  12,  96,  see  Douce  MS., 
No.  1 58  ;  Soupes  of  Salomere,  35 ; 
see  also  Napier,  p.  51,  and  F.  of  C, 
No.  129,  "Soupes  in  galentyne'''' \ 
Soppis,  1,  52.  Cotgr.  :  "  Soupe:  A 
sop,  or  peece  of  bread  in  broth  :  also 
pottage,  or  broth  (wherein  there  is 
store  of  sops,  or  sippets)."  Soup  is 
still  served  thus  in  France. 

Sorcell  rosted  79,  see  Douce  MS. ,  No. 
118,  '■^  Sarcelle  rost,''  Napier,  p.  64  ; 
Teal. 

Sore  Sengle,  25.  This  looks  like 
"Single  Sore,"  compare  " Jiissell 
sengle,''  in  Napier,  p.  26  :  see,  how- 
ever, Cotgr.,  "  Soringue  :  Eele  sauce 
made  of  fried  Onions,  and  toas-bread 
steeped  in  Pease  broth,  then  strayned 
with  wine,  vinegar.  Cinnamon,  Ginger, 
and  other  spices,  all  put  into  a  pot 


10 


146 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOKS. 


with  the  Eeles  cut  into  peeces,  and 
(after  a  Httle  seasoning  with  saffron 
and  salt)  throughly  boy  led." .  Elys 
in  Sorre,  89,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  25. 
The  Fr.  sore  means  reeked  or  made 
red,  as  the  saft'ron  would  do.  Com- 
pare Blandesore. 

Sotelte,  si.,  57,  58,  59,  60,  61,  62, 
63,  67,  68,  69.  Subtlety,  or  device 
to  deck  the  Table  :  see  Forewords. 

Sothe,  pp.,  37,  46;  So>in,  6,  46, 
Sothyn,  7,  9,  II.     Sod;  sodden. 

Soundes,  sh.,  96  ;  Soundys,  26.  Cod 
Sounds,  or  swimming  bladders. 

Soups,  see  Soppes. 

Sowsyd,  adj.,  12.    Soused;  pickled. 

Spaulde  de  Motoun,  59,  Spawdys  de 
Motoun,  63.     Spaud  ;  shoulder. 

Spaune,  sJ.,  14,  Spawne,  90.    Spawn 

Spete,  sh.,  8,  15,  38,  Spate  of  haselle 
39.     Spit. 

Spete,  vh.t.,  38  ;  ben  spetid,  38.  Spit 
put  on  spit. 

Spicere,  sb.,  113;  Spicme,  113 
Spicerye,  30  ;  Spycery,  19,  28,  35. 

Splat,  adj.,  101.     Split. 

Splat,  vh.t.,  105;  Splatte,  104.    Split. 

Splentes,  sh.,  73.     Splints. 

Spone,  sh.,  41.     Spoon. 

Sprynge,  vh.t.,  31.   Springe;  sprinkle. 

Spycis,  28.     Spices. 

Spyneye,  20,  see  Waenek,  II.  jS^o.  46, 
F.  of  C,  No.  57  :  so  named 
from  O.Fr.  Espine,  Hawthorn.  See 
IIaw\orn. 

Stampe,  vh.t.,&,  1, 16,38,77.  Stamp  ; 
grind. 

Stekys  of  venson)  or  bef,  40. 

Stept,  77,  Steeped. 

Ster,  vh.t.,  46;  Stere,  8,  9,  14,  26; 
Sture,  26  ;  Styre,  23.  Stir.  A. 
reads  "styue"  (stew),  in  Recipe  xiiij, 
l>age  8. 

Stipe,  1 6 :  see  readings  at  end  of 
Forewords. 

Stockfish,  see  next. 

StokfissR,  89,  S.  in  sauce,  100,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  31  ;  Stokfysshe,  10  ; 
Stokkefysshe,  26.  Stockfish.  See 
CoTGR. :  '■'■Merlus,  ou  Meriuz :  A 
Mellwell,  or  Keeling,  a  kind  of  small 
Cod,    whereof    stockfish    is    made." 


Modern  French  Merhiehe,  Haddock. 
Stockfish  seems  to  have  been  made 
of    all   sorts  of    Cod,   and   even    of 
Porpoise. 
Stonde,  i-^>.«?«i{.,  88,  109.     Stand;  be 

stift: 

Stonding,   adj.,   95  ;    Stoudyng,    16, 

95  ;  Stondynge,  16,  109.    Standing  ; 

stiff". 
Storgeoun,   sh.,    13  ;   Storieoun,    57  ; 

Storion  in  brothe,  13  ;  see  Shirgeon. 
Straw,  vh.t.,  23;  S.  on,   15  ;   Straws 

Canel  a-boue,  16.     Strew. 
Strawberye,    29  ;     Strawberys,    29 ; 

Stawberye,  2  ;  Streberies,  75. 
Strayne,    vh.t.,    6,     8,     11.       Strain 

through  strainer. 
Straynour,   sh.,    6,    11  ;    Straynoure, 

6,  10,  11,  41  ;  Straynourys  ende,  44  ; 
Strayno'nT,  5,  6  ;  Straynowre,  5,  10  ; 
Strainwoure,  16.     Strainex*. 

Strek,  vh.t.,  95.     Strike. 

Strype,  vh.t.,  27.     Strip. 

Stew,  see  Sttved. 

Stuff,  Stuffe,  «(//■.,  71.     Stiff. 

Stuffe,  vh.t.,  32,  40,  41  ;  Stuffyst, 
40.     Stuff"  with  forcemeat. 

Stuffur,  sh.,  76.     Stuff  for  stuffing. 

Sture,  see  Stere. 

Sturgeon  boiled,  104,  see  Warner,  p. 
47,  Napier,  p.  71  ;  Sturgeon  buille 
ou  turbutt,  117  ;  Storion  in  brothe, 
13,  Sturgeon  in  broth,  104,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  80  ;  Sturgeon  pour 
porpeys,  105,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
181,  '■'■Sturgeon  ou  purpays  ou,  turhut 
furnie),"  Napier,  p.  53,  '■'■  Porpas, 
sturgion,  or  turlmt" ;  Storioun  leche, 
37. 

Sturmye,  26. 

Stwed  Beef,  72,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
3 ;  Stwed  Mutton,  72  ;  Capons 
Stwed,  72  ;  Partrich  stwed,  78, 
Pertrich  stewyde,  9  ;  Smale  Birdys 
y-stwyde,  9.    Stewed. 

Styke,  vh.t.,  31.     Stick. 

Styre,  see  Stere. 

Sucking  Pig,  see  Porcelle. 

Suet,  sh.,  76;  Svette,  115;  Swet, 
40;  Swette,  40  ;  Sewet,  41. 

Sugre,  sh.,  11,  Whyte  s.,  7,  Blake  s., 

7,  Whyte  o^er  blake,  51  ;  S.  of  AU- 


GLOSSARY    AMI)    INDEX. 


147 


saiinder,  39,  Alysaundre,  50,  trova 
Alexandria  ;  S.  of  Siprys,  16,  Sugar 
of  Cii>ris,  95,  from  Cyprus  ;  Sugre  in 
coiifyte,  32,  ?  comfits,  A.  "  Sugre  of 
confitens  "  ;  Sugre  water,  7  ;  Sugo?<r 
water,  85,  Sugur  water,  91  ;  Sugur, 
85,  White  s.  or  blak,  73.  Murray's 
Diet,  gives  Black  Sugar  as  Liquorice, 
but  ?  unrefined  sugar. 

Suradele,   adv.,   21,   49.     Somedeal ; 
somewhat. 

Suththe,  adv.,  112,  113.    Afterward. 

Swan  rested,  78,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
106,  "  Cignet  roste.'" 

Sware,    adj.,    36,    Square :    see    also 
L.C.C.,  p.  45. 

Swenge,     vh.t.,     40,     55.       Swing; 
mix. 

Swerdo,  si.,  6,  14.     Sward;  rind. 

Sweteblanche,  112. 

Swyne,    sh.,    8,   70;  Swynys   grace, 
41.     Swine  ;  pig. 

Swythe,  adv.,  39.     Quickly. 

Syfte,  vh.t.,  38.     Sift. 

Sylf,  see  Self. 

Synamouu),  sh.,  34.     Cinnamon. 

Synewes,  sh.,  53  ;  Syneys,  37  ;  jynes, 
37.     Sinews. 

Syngnettys,  57.     Cignets. 

Syrip,    sh.,    11  ;     Syrippe,     15,    21  ; 
"Wardonys  in  syryp,  7.     See  Sirip. 

Syrup,  see  Sirip,  Syrip. 

Syue,  sh.,  113.     Sieve. 

Syjth,  sh.,  32.     Sight ;  quantity. 


Take,  pp.,  52. 

Talbottys,   19.       See    Wabner,    TI., 

No.  9,  "  Haris  in  tcdbotat/s,'^  F.  of  C, 

No.  23,  "Hares  in  talbotes.'''' 
Talow,  sh.,  39;  Talour,  39.    Tallow; 

fat. 
Tannye,  26.     Compare  Fr.    '■'■  Tanne, 

Tawnie." — Cotgr.      The   dish   is   of 

that  coloiu". 
Tansey,   86,   Tansye,   45,   see   Douce 

MS.,  No.  176,  L.C.C.,  p.  50,  "■Tansy 

cake.''^     So   called   from    the    Tansy 

in  it. 
Tart  de  Fruyte,  98,  see  Douce  MS., 


No.  101  ;  Tartes  of  Frute  in  lente, 
48  ;  Tartus,  75  (Cheese),  Tartes  de 
chare,  47,  52,  Tartus  of  Flesh,  74, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  45,  "  Tartes  de 
chare,'''  Napier,  p.  52,  F.  of  C,  No. 
168,  "  Tartes  of  Flesh  "  ;  Tartes  of 
Fysche,  47,  see  F.  of  C,  No.  170, 
Warner,  p.  48,  "  Tartys  of  Fysvh  owt 
of  Lente"  ;  Graunt  tartez,  58,  Grete 
pyes,  76. 

Tauorsay,  114. 

Taylej,  27,  Taylys,  2,  Taylours,  94, 
Tayloures,  15,  Taylowres,  1  ;  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  104.  See  Cotgr., 
"  Taillis :  A  Hachee  ;  or  made  dish  of 
Creuises,  the  flesh  of  Capons,  Chickens, 
or  Veale,  bread,  wine,  salt,  veriuyce, 
and  spices  ;  also  a  kind  of  gellie,"  as 
the  dish  is  here. 

Taylid  Datys,  55.     Cut  Dates. 

Temper,  vh.t.,  10,  19,  20;  Tempore, 
9,  11  ;  Temperyd,  12,  20.     Mix. 

Tenche  in  bruette,  23,  ;  T.  in  cyueye, 
23,  see  F.  of  C,  No.  120,  Napier,  p. 
80  ;  T.  in  Sawce,  23,  see  Napier, 
p.  117,  L.C.C.,  p.  25,  ''Tenche  in 
graue "  ;  Tenche  in  brase,  105,  see 
Napier,  p.  71,  Warxer,  p.  SQ,  Douce 
MS.,  No.  150  ;  Another  diting  of  a 
tenche,  105  ;  Teuchys,  26,  30. 

Tendure,  adj.,  105.     Tender. 

Tese,  vh.t.,  10,  y^iih  a  pyn,  21,  43, 
114.     Tease  ;  shred  small. 

Tesid,  adj.,  89  ;  Tesyd,  22.  Teased; 
shred  small. 

Teste  de  cure,  112. 

pan,  adv.,  6,  7;  Jeanne,  6,  7,  10,  24; 
>enne,  9,  10,  24.     Then. 

pe,  pron.,  6.     Thee. 

per-an,  29,  Thereon;  J^er-yn,  18,  20, 
47,  j^er-ynne,  7  ;  J^er-on,  6,  11,  20,  29  ; 
>er-to,  6,  18,  29  ;  Therue-owt,  36, 
tliroughout  ;  jjer-vppe,  30,  49,  There- 
on ;  J;'er-vppe-on,  18,  49,  Upon  it ; 
})er-wtt/i,  29. 

pes,  adj.,  34.     These. 

They,  art..  The,  7  :  see  IS'ote  3. 

Thikke,  vh.int.,  91.     Thicken. 

pinne,  adj.,  12;  J'ynne,  109.     Thin. 

pombe,  sh.,  21.     Thumb. 

porgh,  prep.,  101  ;  \ox\\,  5,  6,  9,  22 ; 


148 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY  COOKERY  BOOKS. 


>orwe,  12,  22,  47  ;  jjurgh,  108,  109  ; 

]7urwe,  108  ;  ]7ur5,  109.     Through, 
powsand,  adj.,  43.     This  is  a  curious 

mistake  ou  the  part  of  the  transcriber 

and  should  be  "  a  dozen  "  :  he  took 

the  "  dd.,"  as  Douce  MS.  has  it,  for 

twice  five  hundred.      See  "dd."  on 

page  67. 
prifti    Mylke    of    Almaundys,     31, 

>rifty  M.,  56  ;  >iyfty,  34.     Not  too 

strong. 
Thrawe,  vl.t.,  101.     ThroTV. 
pridde,    adj.,    49;     Thrudde,     113; 

>ryd,  49  ;  Jrydde,  30,  50.     Third. 
Throte-boH,  sh.,  79,  Adam's  Apple  ; 

top  of  windpipe, 
pro  we  jjorw  straynour,  8. 
pryis,  adv.,  11.     Thrice, 
pwerte,  adv.,  31.    Thwart;  athwart. 
'£o,adv.,e>,\\,22.  Too.  In  Recipe  xj, 

p.   7,  A.  reads  "do  hem   to-gedir," 

and  "  to "  has  the   same   meaning  : 

dele  note  7. 
To,  adj.,  7,  14,  21.     Two. 
To-geder,   adv.,   38,   40 ;    To-gedere, 

7,   21  ;    To-gederys,   5,    13,    38,    55. 

Together. 
Tolle,  vh.t.,  40.     See  Toyle. 
Toste,  vb.t.,  11,  30.     Toast. 
Tostes,  sh.,  12.     Toasts. 
Tow,  adj.,  49.     Tough. 
Towres,  46. 
Toyle,  vh.t.,  16,   24,  54;    Tolle,  40. 

Rub  :     Twille    in   Douce   MS.  :    see 

Trull. 
To^L'niit,  prep.,  112.     Against;  in. 
Trappe,   Sew,  54.      Compare   Trape, 

pan   or   dish  :  the  Pudding,   a  kind 

of  Yorkshire,  is  made  in  two  pans. 
Trayne  rest,  97,  60  ;  see  Douce  MS., 

No.    157  ;    Treyne,    7.      Train  :    so 

called  from  its  length. 
Tre,   sh.,  RoH  of  tre,  i.e.  wood,  92. 

See  Treen. 
Treen,    adj.,    13;    T.    dyssche,     53; 

T.  boUe,  16.  Wooden ;  spelt  "Treyi])  " 

in  Douce  MS. 
Trenchours,  Trenchourys,  41.    Tren- 
chers ;  slices.    Fr.  Trencheoir,  CoTGR. 
Tripe     de     Mutton,    82,    Trype    de 

Motoun,  7,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  4  ; 

T.  of  Turbut  or  of  Codelynge,  18, 


T.  de  Turbut,  106,  see  Douce  MS., 

No.  170. 
Troundej,    sh.,    42.       Round    slice; 

compare  Trundle,  Halliwell. 
Troute,  boyled,  102,  see  Douce  MS., 

No.  133,  Napier,  p.  69;  Troutys,20; 

Trowtys,  21. 
TruH,   vb.t.,   76,    95.     Troll,  trowl; 

twist  :  Douce  MS.  Tidlle. 
Trusse,  vh.t.,  for  roasting,  81. 
Txje,vh.t.,^2;  Tryid.jyjs.,  27.   Try; 

pick,  pull.     Fr.  Trier. 
Tryude,  pp.,  74.    This  seems  to  mean 

broken   up,    or   rubbed    up    in    the 

sugar  :  but  Reci[)e  xx,  page  51,  reads 

"y-tryid  jolkys,"  i.e.,  separated  from 

the  white. 
Turbot.     Turbut,  16,  18;  T.  boyled, 

105,   see  Napier,   p.   73 ;  T.   roste 

ensauce,  106,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 

168,  Napier,  p.  96 ;  Tripe  of  Turbut, 

see  Tripe. 
Twyis,  adv.,  11.     Twice. 
Tylle,  adv.,  12.     Till. 
Tyne,  sh.,  49,  50  ;   Tynez  of  batter, 

49.     Compare  Tine  of  a  fork  ;  spike. 


Vanne,  vh.t.,  70.     Fan. 

Veal,  see  Vele. 

Vele,  kede,  or  henne  in  Bokenade,  13, 
Autre  Vele  en  bokenade,  13,  see  F. 
of  C,  No.  118  ;  Vele  rested,  81,  see 
Douce  MS.,  No.  123  ;  Piper  for  feel 
and  for  venysoun,  110. 

Venegre,  sh.,  7,  10  ;  Vynegre,  8,  10, 
72,  109;  Wiuegre,  110.     Vinegar. 

Venison,  see  next. 

Venson)  or  bef,  Stekys  of,  40  ;  Veny- 
son  -with  Furmenty,  6,  Furmenty 
with  v.,  70,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  180 ; 
V.  in  Broth,  10,  70,  63,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  38  ;  Nombles,  or  Nomblys 
of  v.,  70,  10,  see  Douce  MS.,  No. 
39,  F.  of  C,  No.  54,  Warner,  p.  53, 
and  II.  No.  12  ;  V.  y-bake,  51,  73, 
see  Douce  MS.,  No.  40  ;  Venysoun, 
1,  10,  49,  V.  rested,  81,  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  124,  Napier,  p.  66  ;  Veny- 
soun Roste,  64,  has  "  in  syrup  "  added 
to  it,  in  A. 

Verge  sauce,  102,  104,  Vert  Sauce. 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


149 


Yergeous,  sh.,  72;  Verious,  7,  8,  9; 
109;  Veriows,  13;  Vertious,  115, 
Veryous,  18,  20.  "  Verjuice  is  the 
juice  of  Crabs,  or  sour  apples"  ; 
Holme,  III.  iii.  85. 
Yergyussauce,   103,   104.     Yerjuice- 

sauce. 
Yernage,  si.,  22  ;  Yernage  pimej,  28. 
"  Vernaccia,  a  kiude  of  strong  wine 
like  malmesie  or  muskadine,  or 
bastard  wine;"  Florio,  1598.  The 
1659  ed.  says,  "  A  kind  of  w^iuter- 
wine."  Compare  It.  Vernaccio,  a 
severe  winter  :  seeMAYHEW  &  Skeat. 

Yesselle,   sh.,    17,   20;  WesseH,    91. 
Yessel ;  Fr.  Vaisselle. 

Viaundbnise,  a  Potage,  67  ;  Viauncl 
Ryal,  bl  ;  Viaimt  Ardant  (probably 
brought  in  with  flaming  spirits),  61  ; 
Vyaund  de  cyprys  bastarde,  21, 
Vyaund  de  ciprys  Ryalle,  21,  Vy- 
aunde  de  cyprys  in  lente,  28,  see 
l^APiEK,  p.  102,  F.  of  C,  Nos.  97,  98, 
Warner,  pp.  58,  76,  L.C.C.,  p.  8  ; 
Vyande  Ryalle,  32,  see  F.  of  C,  No. 
98,  Warner,  p.  76  ;  Vyand  leche, 
36,  37,  38,  see  Napier,  p.  41,  "  Cold 
leshe  viand  "  j  Vyaunde  Furnej  sanj 
noum,  de  chare,  (two  Recipes),  49; 
Vyand  Goderygge,  63  ;  Vyand  Mot- 
legh,  63.     Fr.   Viande,  Meat. 

Yinegar,  see  Venegre. 

Umbles,  see  Noinlles. 

Ynce,  si.,  107;  Ynees,  106.     Ounce. 

Ynnetli,  adv.,  84,  85;  YnneJ7e,  38, 
43,  44 ;  Scarcely. 

Ynderneili,  prep.,  105  ;  Ynder-nethe, 
7.     Underneath. 

Yn-puUud,  99,  TJnshred. 

Yntrusse,  vl.t.,  41.     Entruss  on  spit. 

VotrelU),  69,  is  probably  the  Dish 
mentioned  in  Napier,  p.  44,  as 
"  Votose  "  ;  the  liquid  II  would  give 
VotreU'S,  and  possibly  Votews  ;  after 
Mortrews.  Votose  is  made  up  of 
Gobbets  of  Marrow,  cut  Dates,  sugar, 
powdered  Ginger,  Saftron,  Salt,  which 
is  put  between  leaves  of  paste,  closed, 
baked,  and  then  cut  in  pieces  two 
inches  square :  it  is  also  called 
Votese. 

Urchins,  see  Yrchons. 


Yyn,  si.,  104;  Yynncs,  106,     Fin. 
Vyolet,  sh.,  5,  29  ;  Vyolette,  23,  29. 
Violet. 

Waffres,  39  ;  Waffrys,  39, 63.  Wafers. 

Walkys  in  bruette,  23  ;  Walkys,  60  ; 

Welkes  boyled,  106,  see  Douce  MS., 

No.  164,  Napier,  p.  74  ;  Wylkys,  60. 

Walnotys,  109.     Walnuts. 

War,  adj.,  38.     Ware  :  avrare. 

Wardons,  87,  Wardones,  106;   War- 

donys  in   Syryp,   7,   see  Warner, 

p.  72  ;   Quyncis    or  Wardouns   in 

past,  51 ;  Charde warden,  12  ;  Chare 

de   Wardone,    88.     Warden    Pears. 

"A  Warden   is  like   a  Quince,  but 

brown  and  spotted  ;    of  them  there 

are  several  sorts."— Holme,  Armory, 

II.  iii.  47. 

Ware,  vh.mt.,  42. 

AVarme  hot,  8. 

Wiishe,  vi.^.,  5;  WaPsche,5;  Wasshe, 
10  ;  Waysshe,  25  ;  Whas,  112 ;  Whess, 
112,114;  Wasshen,  pp. ,84: ;  Wasshem, 
18,  20,  23,  Wash  'em. 

Wast,  lb.,  25.     Waste. 

Wastel,  si.,  22;  Wastel  bred,  112, 
Wastilbrede,  28,  Wastylljrede,  28, 
Wastel  bread  :  bread  made  of  fine 
flour:  Angio-Fr.  Wasiel,  Oastel,  Fr. 
Gasteaii,  Gdtean. 

Water,  si.,  13;  Watere,  42;  Watre, 
109. 

AVatteryd, «rf/.,26.  Watered;  soaked, 
to  get  the  salt  out. 

W^ay,  si.,  73.     Whey. 

Wesing,  si.,  80;  Wesyng,  116,  117. 
Weasaud. 

WesseH,  si.,  91.     Yessel. 

Wete,  si.,  105.     Wheat. 

AVete,f5.!!.,  11,48, 105;  r/^'.,48.  Wet. 

Wexe,  vlAnt.,  8,  17,  W.  hard,  35, 
Wexyth,  35.     Wax  ;  grow. 

Whan,  conj.,  18.     When. 

Wheder,  adj.,  33,  Whether ;  which- 
ever. 

Whele,  conj.,  23.     While. 

Whelks,  see  Walkys. 

Whete,  s^.,  6, 15;  Wete,  105.  Wheat. 

Whe)7er-ener,  131.  Whither  ever, 
Wherever. 


150 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY    COOKERY    BOOKS. 


"Whetyn  floui-e,  33.     Wheaten  flour. 

Whey,  sb.,  56  ;  Way,  73. 

White  of  egges,  74,  75 ;  Whyte 
Mortrewes,  19, 28  (Pork),  see  Kapier, 
p.  106,  Warner,  p.  62,  L.C.C.,  p.  13, 
F.  of  C,  No.  46 ;  W.  pesyn  in 
grauey,  33  ;  Whyte  of  eyroun,  11, 
14,  W.  of  lekys,  14,  W.  brede,  11,  30, 
W.  sugre,  7,  8.  For  White  Sauces, 
see  Sauces:  see  also  Wi/n. 

Whyle,  A  gret,  26,  A  long  time ;  A 
good  whylys,  42. 

Wine,  see  IVyn. 

With-owte,  48  ;  With-jnne  &  w^t7^- 
owte,  47. 

Wodecok,  80,  see  Douce  MS  ,  No. 
121,  Napier,  p.  64,  "  W.  rost,"  L.C.C., 
p.  35,  "  ir.  sn7/}t,  and  Curlue.'" 

Woldyst,  20,  Wouldest. 

Wole,  vh.int.,  31  ;  Wolle,  26;  Wolt, 
33.     Will,  Wilt. 

Wollen,  adj.,  32.     Woollen. 

Wombe,  sb.,  39,  of  fish.  Belly ;  38, 
39,  of  sheep.  Maw,  stomach  ;  Wombe 
side  vpward,  131. 

Wort,  sb.,  107,  Unfermented  beer. 

Wortes  de  pesoun,  Lange,  5,  Longe 
W.  de  Pesone,  89  (Pease\  see  Douce 
MS.,  No.  2  ;  Lange  Wortys  de 
chare,  5,  see  Douce  MS.,  No.  1  ; 
Whyte  wortes,  6  ;  Hare  in  Wortes, 
69  ;  Buttered  Wortes,  69,  see 
Napier,  p.  84,  see  also  Napier, 
p.  82,  "  Wortis." 

Wryng,  ih.t.,  29  ;  Wryng  )>orw 
straynoure,  or  cloj^e,  22,  28.  Wring. 

Wyl,  adv.,  6,  7,  11,  20,  26;  Wylle, 
26.     Well. 

Wylkys,  60.     Whelks. 

Wyn,  sb.,  20,  Rede  wyn,  20  ;  Wyne, 
7,  10,  20,  Red  wyne,  10,  26,  Wyne 
Crete  (of  Crete),  48,  Swete  Wyne,  22, 
35,  Whyte  Wyne,  15,  35,  Rochelle 
Wyne,  15.     Wine. 

Wyth,i?re^.,13,With;Wyth-owte,12. 


Y-bake,  51,  T-baken,  54,  Baked; 
Y-blaunchyd,  31,  Blanched ;  Y- 
bontyd,  38,  Bunted,  sifted  ;  Y-bounde 
Wit/i  Floure  of  Rys,  39,  Made  still' ; 


Y-boylid,  10,  18,  Y-boylyd,  6;  Y- 
braid,  48,  Pounded  ;  Y-broyhd,  47  ; 
Y-choppid,  33,  46  ;  Y-chowchyd,  26, 
Y-couched,  laid  ;  Y-clepid,  43  ;  Y- 
closyd,48,  Closed  (of  a  pie) ;  Y-corven, 
23,  Cut ;  Y-coryd,  46,  Cored  ;  Y-cutte, 
51  ;  Y-dicyd,  22,  Cut  into  dice  ;  Y- 
draw,  6,  9, 10,  11,  15,  33,  Y-drawe,  26, 
Drawn  through  strainer,  see  the  verb 
Draw  ;  Y-dressid,  8,  11,  Dressed  for 
table ;  Y-farsyd,  40,  Stufied  ;  Y- 
fastenyd,  50  ;  Y-gratyd,  15,  19  ;  Y- 
grounde,  13,  18,  23,  110  ;  Y-hackyd, 
55  ;  Y-harded,  99,  Y-hardid,  52,  Har- 
dened ;  Y-heled,  112,  Y-helid,  40, 
Y-helyd,  54,  Covered  ;  Y-hole,  22, 
this  may  be  uncut,  with  the  stones 
in  ;  possibly  sX-i«»e(^,  Hulled  ;  A.  also 
reads  thus  :  Y-kremyd,  40,  Crimmed, 
crumbled  ;  Y-kyt,  55,  Cut ;  Y-leched, 
86,  Y-lechyd,  35,  Leched,  cut  in 
strips  ;  Y-like,  20,  Alike  ;  Y-mad,  6, 
12,  51,  made;  Y-makyd,  49,  Made  ; 
Y-mellid,  55,  Y-mellyd,  28,  55, 
Mingled  ;  Y-mengyd,  38,  Menged, 
Mixed  ;  Y-mynced,  6,  14,  18,  Y-myn- 
syd,  13,  Minced;  Y-opened,  114; 
Y-pede.  29,  ?  Y-pared,  pared  (A.  also 
reads  thus);  Y-pekid,  41,  Y-pikyd, 
37,  Picked  ;  Y-peyntid,  29,  Painted  ; 
Y-pileyd,  37,  Peeled;  Y-rollyd,  48, 
Rolled  ;  Y-rosted,  106,  114,  Y-rostyd, 
23,  38,  Roasted;  Y-.schred,  49,  Y- 
schredyd,  29.  Y-scredde,  40,  Shred- 
ded ;  Y-Skaldyd,  22,  Scalded;  Y- 
smete,  55,  Smitten,  chopped  ;  Y- 
sode,  19,  Y-sothe,  23,  37,  55,  Sodden, 
boiled  ;  Y-stekyd,  52,  Y-stykyd,  35, 
Stuck  ;  Y-strainyd,  17,  Y-straynid, 
55,  Strained  through  sti'ainer  ;  Y- 
stwyde,  9,  stewed  ;  Y-sweugyd,  25, 
Y-swonge,  35,  38,  Swung,  shaken, 
mixed  ;  Y-take,  88,  Taken  ;  Y-tallyd, 
27,  Y-tayhd,  27,  33,  Cut,  Fr.  Tailler; 
Y-temperyd,  7,  17,  28,  Mixed  ;  Y- 
tryid,  11,  15,  36,  51,  52,  Picked, 
separated,  the  last  example  appa- 
rently meaning  "  strained  through 
strainer;"  Y-wasche,  7,  Y-wasshe,  2.3, 
1 14,  Washed ;  Y- watery d,  43,  Soaked  ; 
Y-wet,  102,  106,  Y-wette,  52,  Wet, 
steeped  ;  Y-wreten,  21,  Written  ; 
Y-wronge  oute,  84,  91,  Wrung 
out. 


GLOSSARY    AND    INDEX. 


151 


Teest,  96,  Yeast. 

Y-fere,  18,  Together. 

Y-liche  moclie,  70,  A  like  much,  or 
quantity. 

Ynouh,  adv.,  75 ;  Y-now,  5,  6,  8  ; 
Ynowe,  19,  35.     Enough. 

Yrchons,  3;  Yrchouns,  38,  61,  62. 
Urchins  ;  hedgehogs.  See  Warner, 
p.  66,  "  U)-c/ioni/s."  So  called  from 
being  made  bristly  with  Almonds. 

Yren,  sb.,  93.     Iron. 

Ys,  17,  Is. 

Yt,  15,  17,  35.     It. 


^elow,  adj.,  20,  30.     Yellow. 

^ere,  sb.,  15,  29,  47.     Year. 

^est,  sb.,  10,  44.     Yeast. 

^et,  pron.,  31.     It. 

3if,  vb.t.,  22,  29,  112.     Give. 

]if,  co»J.,  7,  9,  10,  11,  12,  30,  47.    If. 

]olkes  of  egges,   109  ;    ^olkys,  8,  9, 

11,  12,  19,  29.     Yolks. 
^ong,  adj.,  54;  ^onge,  31.     Young. 


^ynes,  sh.,  37.     Sinews. 


STEPHEN  AUSTIN  AND  SONS,  PRINTERS,  HERTFORD. 


■3^10 


Iw.H.MlLNESy 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

lllllllilllli      , 

3  9999  05987  779  3 


;..fM;>; 


