/    ,       V'^^'v^"-  ^<^'^-\/...    ^^,'*^\/ 


t-'  \/  '1^=  %/ '^:  "--*'  '^-t  "--/ 


V^^V    "-^^^^V    V^^\^^     "-.^^-^-V 

I:  %.**  :' A\  X/  :-^\  %<^^  yA\  X/  :^ 

■•*^'-     V^\<^     ^^^f.^i^.o*^    v^^v      <■ 
.o*...»^-..*o,    .,**\,i;^.\     oo*..^>,%    /'yj^m,'-\ 


5^ 


DESSERTS 


TWO    HUNDRED 

RECIPES       FOR      MAKING 

DESSERTS 

INCLUDING 

FRENCH   PASTRIES 

BY 

OLIVE  M.  HULSE 


Tou  Aspasia,  Chloe  and  others  luhose 
forms  the  Grecian  chisel  has  immor- 
talized to  the  despair  of  modern  belles, 
never  did  your  charming  mouths 
inhale  the  siveetness  of  a  scented 
meringue;  your  ideas  scarcely  rose 
abofe  gingerbread — Hoiu  I  pity  you! 


THE  HOPEWELL  PRESS 

One  Hundred  Twenty-Two  South  Michigan  Ave. 
CHICAGO,       U.      S.      A. 


.4^ 


Copyright  1912 

BY 

Olive  M.  Hulse 


/  &^ 


€CLA330714 

44  Ji  i 


Preface 


DESSERTS'  follows  'Salads'  in  natural 
sequence,  its  complement  as  well  as  its  suc- 
cessor— the  success  of  one  persuading  the 
publication  of  the  other.  If  not  the  most  impoi'tant, 
surely  desserts  are  the  most  interesting  course  on  the 
bill-of-fare,  the  last  and  parting  word  with  which  the 
skillful  hostess  bids  her  guests  let  the  memory  of  her 
repast  linger  in  their  minds  as  on  their  palates. 

The  range  is  wide.  The  best  cakes.,  pies.,  ice-creams., 
and  fruit  desserts  are  here  included.,  in  addition  to  those 
delicate  and  aesthetic  importations  from  dainty  France., 
not  yet  as  widely  known  as  they  deserve  to  be  by  their 
name  of  French  Pastries.  JVithin  these  broadened 
limits,  the  modern  woman  will  find  ample  chance  for 
the  expression  of  her  own  taste  and  personality,  and  be 
able  to  crown  her  luticheons  and  diimers  with  delicious 
marvels  of  pastry-making,  garnered  from  every  land 
where  cooking  has  attained  the  dignity  of  a  fine  art. 


The  two  hundred  and  more  recipes  this  book  contains 
are  set  forth  in  terms  too  plain  to  admit  of  mistakes:  by 
their  means  the  novice  may  quickly  grow  into  profi- 
ciency^ while  the  accomplished  housekeeper  will  thereby 
find  her  scope  of  entertainment  interestingly  enlarged. 

From  the  combinations  given  new  ones  are  easily 
attained y  permitting  not  merely  individual  expression^ 
but  the  greater  joys  of  the  creative  artist. 

Surely  if  he  is  a  benefactor  of  mankind  who  makes 
two  blades  of  grass  grow  where  one  grew  before^ 
credit  must  fall  upon  the  lady  of  that  house  which 
offers  its  inmates  and  guests  the  best  the  world  affords — ■ 
a  score  of  epicurean  delights  where  there  were  but 
half  a  score  before. 


Dessert  Lore 


THE  fascinating  art  of  pastry-making  was 
known  to  ancient  nations.  Its  origin  dates 
from  the  infancy  of  the  world  —  from  the 
day  when  the  primal  man,  having  before  him  flour, 
butter,  and  eggs,  evolved  the  idea  of  mixing  them 
to  gratify  the  palate.  After  they  were  combined, 
lo,  he  had  cakes  and  brioches!  They  were  good  to 
the  taste  but  not  altogether  satisfying,  so  in  the 
course  of  evolution  he  added  honey  and  fruits  — 
later  sugar.  He  shaped  these  preparations  in 
divers  ways,  and  in  succeeding  ages  the  traditional 
cake  graced  the  festive  board  in  hut  and  in  castle. 

The  Egyptians  served  many  kinds  of  cakes  on 
their  tables.  The  Jews  knew  of  at  least  three 
kinds  —  one  kneaded  with  oil,  another  fried  in  oil, 
and  a  third  merely  rubbed  over  with  oil.  The 
extravagant  indulgence  of  their  appetites  by 
the  Greeks  and  the  Romans  led  them  to  perfect 
many  rich  and  ingenious  combinations  for  the 
purpose  of  restoring  a  failing  appetite  or  one 
greatly  impaired  by  too  vigorous  and  too  frequent 
onslaughts.  Some  of  these  pastries  appear  appe- 
tizing at  the  present  day;  others  we  should  con- 
sider unworthy  of  the  modern  epicure. 

[51 


In  sunny  France  the  making  of  pastries  has  long 
been  a  favorite  art.  Any  French  bill-of-fare  or 
cookery  book  will  betray  to  a  thoughtful  reader 
the  attention  given  to  the  subject  not  only  by  the 
wittiest,  gayest,  and  most  beautiful  women,  but  by 
the  wisest  men.  The  resounding  names  attached 
to  French  dishes  are  no  mere  tributes  of  culinary 
artists  to  the  great  in  the  land,  but  actually 
point  out  their  originators.  Thus  D'Uxelle  sauce 
was  named  after  the  French  general  who  per- 
fected it.  Bechamel  cream  sauce  was  invented 
by  the  Marquis  de  Bechamel  during  the  reign  of 
Louis  XIV.  Cotellettes  a  la  Maintenon  were 
created  by  the  famous  lady  of  that  name.  Mira- 
beau  is  the  offspring  of  the  distinguished  French 
orator,  and  Madame  de  Pompadour  produced 
many  new  dishes  which  bear  her  name. 

The  Guild  of  the  Parisian  Pastry  Cooks  boasted 
of  being  one  of  the  ancient  associations  of  France. 
They  took  the  title  of  "Masters  of  the  Art  of 
Pastry,"  and  in  1566,  Charles  IX  conceded  to 
them  the  exclusive  and  valued  privilege  of  pre- 
paring the  Eucharistic  Wafer. 

Literary  men  have  always  formed  the  entourage 
of  a  great  chef,  for  none  can  judge  better  than  men 
of  letters  all  there  is  in  the  art  of  cooking. 
Accustomed  as  they  are  to  refinements,  "they  can 
appreciate  more  than  others  the  refinements  of  the 
table,"  says  Dumas  in  his  book  on  cooking,  thus 
paying  both  himself  and  his  confreres  a  delicate 
little  compliment  at  the  expense  of  the  non-literary 

[6] 


world.  Despite  this  naive  self-glorification,  he 
states  a  fact  that  helps  to  point  a  moral — that 
indifference  to  cooking  indicates  neither  refine- 
ment, intellect,  nor  social  eminence. 

Desserts  and  the  like,  as  they  are  known  to  the 
modern  table,  had  their  beginning  in  Italy.  Later 
they  were  introduced  into  France,  became  an  art 
among  the  people  and  thereby  reached  perfection. 
The  term  "dessert"  is  generally  applied  to  the  final 
sweet  at  either  dinner  or  luncheon.  Careme  used 
to  say  that  the  dessert  had  been  elevated  into 
science  with  the  idea  of  retaining  women  and 
children  at  the  table  in  friendly  family  converse. 

Cooking  and  cultivation  are  by  no  means  antag- 
onistic; they  naturally  go  together.  We  summon 
with  loving  approbation  the  vision  of  Marie 
Antoinette  in  her  pretty  dairy-maid  costume 
gracefully  wielding  the  churn-dasher  and  moulding 
the  butter  into  irresistible  little  pats.  How  charm- 
ing is  the  picture  of  our  own  Dolly  Madison 
carefully  blending  a  salad  dressing,  or  of  Margaret 
Fuller  deftly  shelling  peas,  or  of  Charlotte  Bronte 
surreptitiously  taking  the  eyes  out  of  the  potatoes 
for  fear  of  hurting  the  feelings  of  her  old  blind 
servant.  Even  Leo  X,  it  was  declared  by  some  of 
his  friends,  made  more  sauces  than  saints. 

At  present  there  is  a  deal  of  talk  about  cook- 
ing; the  topic  takes  its  place  in  a  little  less 
degree  with  politics,  suffrage,  settlement  work, 
conservation,  and  the  high  cost  of  living.  The 
fact  of  its  being   mildly  fashionable  gives  hope 

[7] 


that  in  the  future  young  women  of  refined  pro- 
cHvities  will  accept  it  as  an  art  worthy  their 
notice.  Truth  to  tell,  it  is  vital;  it  is  essential, 
not  only  to  human  happiness,  but  to  human 
progress. 

It  is  neither  necessary  nor  desirable  that  a  lady 
spend  much  time  in  her  kitchen.  Only  that  one 
hour  a  day  which  Tallyrand,  the  busy,  wily 
statesman,  devoted  to  consultation  with  his  cook, 
will  assure  satisfactory  service  in  any  dining 
room.  After  giving  a  little  time  and  practice  to 
the  mastering  of  a  few  principles,  one  will  be  able 
to  instruct  the  cook,  who  is  often  ambitious  to 
excel,  and  will  herself  become  highly  proficient  if 
guided  aright. 

Regarded  from  any  point  of  view  the  love  of  good 
foods  and  dainty  service  deserves  nothing  but 
commendation  and  encouragement.  In  speaking 
of  food  and  its  rational  appreciation  a  modern 
philosopher  says:  "Not  to  care  about  what  we 
eat  is  either  genuine  or  hypocritic.  If  genuine,  it 
betokens  a  defect  of  which  we  ought  to  be  ashamed; 
for  surely  the  stomach  is  as  noble  an  organ  as  the 
face  and  deserves  as  much  earnest  attention.  If 
hypocritical,  it  is  a  most  absurd  affectation." 

It  has  been  remarked  that  a  too  exclusive  diet 
of  starchy  foods  weakens  the  fibre  and  even  the 
courage.  The  East  Indians  are  cited  as  instances. 
They  live  almost  entirely  upon  rice,  and  have 
been  subjugated  by  all  who  have  tried  to 
conquer  them.     On  the  other  hand,  starchy  foods 

[8] 


seem  to  have  a  strengthening  effect  upon  the 
frugiverous  domestic  animals,  being  more  sub- 
stantial than  their  ordinary  vegetable  dietary. 

But  sugar,  which  enters  so  largely  into  the  making 
of  desserts,  is  highly  nutritious  whether  by  itself 
or  in  its  natural  state  as  found  in  different  plants. 
Animals  are  fond  of  it;  and  the  English,  who  fre- 
quently give  it  to  their  favorite  horses,  have 
observed  that  by  its  use  their  animals  are  better 
able  to  endure  extreme  exertion  and  fatigue.  For 
the  same  reason  modern  armies  are  allowed  sugar 
in  their  rations. 

Among  the  healthful  and  mildly  stimulating  foods 
are  grouped  all  the  saccharine  substances  —  fruit 
juices,  sugar,  molasses,  and  honey.  On  this  point 
Dr.  Pereira  says  that  the  injurious  effects  ascribed 
to  sugar  are  more  imaginary  than  real. 

The  fondness  of  children  for  sweets  may  be  re- 
garded as  a  natural  instinct,  since  nature,  by 
putting  sugar  in  the  mother's  milk,  evidently 
intended  it  to  form  a  part  of  the  child's  nourish- 
ment. Instead,  therefore,  of  repressing  this  appe- 
tite for  sugar,  it  should  be  gratified  in  moderation. 
The  popular  notion  of  its  having  a  tendency  to 
injure  the  teeth  has  little  foundation.  During  the 
sugar  season  in  the  West  Indies  all  the  negroes 
on  the  plantation,  and  even  the  dogs,  grow  fat 
from  eating  sugar.  Yet  no  people  on  earth  have 
finer  teeth  than  the  negroes  of  the  West  Indies. 
It  is  possible  that  the  erroneous  idea  has  been 

[9] 


propagated  by  frugal  housewives  in  order  to 
deter  their  children  from  indulging  in  an  expen- 
sive luxury. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  both  children  and  adults 
are  often  injured  by  the  use  of  sugar,  but  it  is 
not  because  it  is  unhealthful  in  its  nature,  but 
because  it  is  either  used  in  excess  or  in  an  improper 
way.  Highly  concentrated  foods  in  quantities  are 
not  easily  digested  because  they  cannot  be  acted 
upon  properly  by  the  muscular  contractions  of 
the  stomach,  or  are  not  so  minutely  divided  as  to 
enable  the  gastric  juices  to  do  their  full  duty. 
Now  sugar,  and  all  products  in  which  it  is  con- 
tained in  large  quantity,  are  highly  concentrated 
nourishment  and  should  not  be  eaten  except  with 
other  foods.  The  reason  that  children's  stomachs 
are  upset  by  sugar  is  that  they  eat  it  too  often, 
in  too  large  quantities,  or  when  unmixed  with 
other  edibles. 

In  order  to  succeed  in  making  good  desserts  one 
must  possess  deftness  of  hand  and  clearness  of 
brain  —  qualities  which  gradually  transform  the 
artisan  into  the  artist.  One  must  have  a  lively 
and  inventive  fancy,  a  desire  to  originate,  and  a 
willingness  to  profit  by  mistakes.  The  artist's 
taste  must  be  so  keen  that  he  knows  intuitively 
what  proportions  of  the  various  ingredients  make 
the  most  palatable  whole. 

It  is  worth  while  to  accomplish  leaf  and  puff 
paste,  since  so  many  dainty  trifles  can  be  made 
of  them,  which  attempted  with  the  ordinary  short 
paste  would  be  unsightly. 

[10] 


Use  only  the  best  materials  in  making  pastries. 
The  shortening  should  be  fresh,  sweet,  and  hard. 
It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  butter  which  is 
not  good  enough  for  the  table  can  be  used  for 
shortening;  it  is  bound  to  flavor  all  it  enters.  The 
water  should  be  cold  —  ice-water  is  the  best. 

The  paste  should  be  rolled  on  a  fiat,  cold  sur- 
face —  marble  preferred ;  and  should  be  handled 
as  little  as  possible.  Paste  is  more  flaky  and  will 
puff  more  if  put  in  a  covered  dish  and  set  in  an 
ice-cold  place  for  half  an  hour,  or  even  for  an  hour, 
before  using.  It  will  be  greatly  improved  by 
brushing  it  with  the  white  of  an  egg  as  often  as 
it  is  rolled  out  and  the  pieces  of  butter  placed 
on  it.  This  will  help  to  make  it  rise  in  flakes. 
As  this  is  the  great  beauty  of  leaf  paste  it  is  well 
to  try  this  method. 

The  reason  so  many  fail  in  the  preparation  of 
leaf  paste  is  that  they  handle  it  badly  —  not 
because  they  do  not  make  it  properly.  Caution 
is  also  needed  in  heating  the  oven  for  baking.  The 
temperature  is  important;  it  should  be  kept  just 
right  as  long  as  the  pastry  is  in  it.  It  is  well  to 
test  the  temperature  with  a  small  piece  of  the 
pastry  before  attempting  to  bake  the  whole.  If 
you  allow  the  oven  to  cool  while  the  pastry  is  in 
it,  the  under  crust  will  become  heavy  and  clammy, 
and  the  upper  crust  dishearteningly  fall  in.  The 
pastry  should  bake  to  a  light  brown  and  it  will 
then  be  fresh  and  flaky  in  appearance. 

[11] 


Care  should  be  taken  to  prevent  the  pastry  from 
burning  in  the  oven.  This  it  is  likely  to  do  some- 
times after  the  icing  is  laid  on. 

To  glaze  pastry  put  the  white  of  an  egg  on  a 
plate  and  beat  it  to  a  stiff  froth  with  the  blade 
of  a  knife.  When  the  pastry  is  nearly  baked, 
spread  this  froth  on  it,  and  sift  powdered  sugar 
over  it.  Put  the  pastry  back  in  the  oven  to 
set  the  glaze,  and  in  a  few  minutes  it  will  be 
done.  To  make  a  meringue  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  white  sugar  to  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg, 
spread  over  the  top,  and  slightly  brown  in  the 
oven. 

Pie  crust  can  be  kept  a  week  if  placed  in  a  tightly 
covered  dish  and  set  in  the  ice-box  in  summer, 
or  in  an  ordinarily  cool  place  in  winter.  This 
will  make  possible  a  fresh  pie  every  day  with  very 
little  trouble,  and  the  last  pie  will  be  better  than 
the  first. 

When  baking  pumpkin,  squash,  or  custard  pies, 
it  is  best  to  bake  the  paste  first.  This  will  pre- 
vent the  mixture  from  being  absorbed  by  the 
crust.  If  stewed  fruit  is  used,  the  filling  should 
be  perfectly  cool  when  put  in,  otherwise  it  will 
leave  the  bottom  crust  sodden.  To  prevent  juices 
from  soaking  into  the  crust  when  making  a  pie, 
wet  the  under  crust  with  the  white  of  an  egg  just 
before  putting  in  the  mixture.  If  the  top  of  the 
pie  is  brushed  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg  it 
will  give  it  lustre. 

[12] 


If  currants  are  used  they  should  be  washed,  well- 
dried,  and  dredged  with  flour.  Raisins  and  all 
dried  fruits  for  pies  and  cakes  should  be  seeded 
and  dredged  with  flour  before  using.  Almonds 
should  be  blanched  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
them.  They  should  remain  in  the  hot  water 
two  minutes  and  then  put  in  cold  water,  when  the 
skins  can  be  slipped  off  easily.  In  pounding 
almonds  add  a  little  orange  water  with  fine  sugar 
to  prevent  them  from  becoming  oily. 

During  the  warm  months  fruits  are  always  pre- 
ferable desserts  to  the  heavier  starches  and  sugars. 
To  be  wholesome,  appetizing,  and  easily  digested, 
fruits  should  be  thoroughly  ripe,  served  plain  and 
uncooked. 

The  chief  reason  why  more  women  do  not  give 
their  pastries  due  personal  attention  lies  in  the 
fact  that  discouragement  so  often  follows  failure; 
and  the  less  accountable  the  failure,  the  greater 
the  discouragement.  It  may  be  said  that  prac- 
tice and  its  resulting  accustomedness  will  cure 
many  apparent  ills;  but  the  precepts  of  this  book 
will  go  far  toward  making  success  possible  from 
the  first.  Let  it  not  be  forgotten,  either,  that  in 
desserts,  as  in  nearly  all  human  affairs  worthy  of 
attention,  the  chief  difficulties  lie  at  the  crossing 
of  the  threshold.  This  passed,  a  wide  and  ever^ 
pleasing  vista  is  opened  to  the  eye. 

Olive  M.  Hulse. 


[13] 


CONTENTS 

Page 

French  Pastry 

.        .        .         17 

Pies        ..... 

69 

Cakes 

83 

Puddings 

111 

Ices        .... 

129 

Fruit  Desserts 

.        .       141 

French  Pastry 


When  he  actually  refused  currant  and 
raspberry  tart,  the  Good  Hannah  was 
alarmed. 

— Thackeray. 


[17] 


French  Pastry 


FRENCH  pastries  are  the  newest  desserts 
on  the  menu,  and  among  the  most  aristo- 
cratic. Difficult  and  mysterious  as  they 
may  appear  to  be  to  the  unaccustomed,  they  are 
easily  and  quickly  made.  Of  introduction  recent 
enough  to  make  them  novel,  of  delicious  flavor  and 
aspect,  nothing  can  be  more  welcome  to  those 
weary  of  the  inevitable  ice  cream  and  cake. 

More  than  a  hundred  recipes  for  these  delicious 
desserts  are  given,  all  of  which  have  been  satis- 
factorily tested.  There  is  something  for  every 
taste.  As  good  things  slightly  known,  and  deserv- 
ing better  acquaintance,  they  are  especially  com- 
mended to  the  fastidious. 


[10] 


Leaf  Paste 

All  French  pastry  Is  made  upon  a  foundation  of 
leaf  paste.  To  make  this,  drain  a  pound  of  butter 
and  chill  it  with  ice.  Rub  with  a  quarter  of  this 
a  pound  of  flour,  pouring  in  water  enough  to  form 
a  stiff  paste.  Lay  it  away  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Dredge  the  table  lightly  with  flour,  lay 
the  paste  on  it,  and  roll  it  square.  Similarly  roll 
out  the  butter  remaining,  lay  it  in  and  on  the 
centre  of  the  paste,  the  edges  of  which  should  be 
brought  back  over  the  butter  and  enclose  it  well. 
Roll  the  whole  to  the  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  and  fold  it  into  three  layers.  It  has  now  had 
one  turn.  Fold  it  again  into  three  layers  and 
roll  it  the  second  time,  but  in  the  contrary  direc- 
tion. It  has  now  had  two  turns.  Leave  it  for 
fifteen  minutes  and  give  it  two  turns  more,  and 
after  a  second  quarter  of  an  hour  give  it  the  two 
final  turns.  More  than  six  turns  are  unnecessary. 
Cover  the  paste  with  cloth  and  lay  it  away  in  a 
cold  place  until  needed. 


As  when  some  skillful  cook,  to  please  each  guest 
Would  in  one  mixture  comprehend  a  feast, 
With  due  proportion  and  judicious  care. 

—Pope. 

[20] 


Puff  Paste 

Leaf  paste  and  puff  paste  are  often  confused, 
though  greatly  different.  As  leaf  paste  is  the 
foundation  for  all  French  pastry,  so  puff  paste 
serves  for  eclairs,  cream  puffs,  and  the  like,  a  paste 
being  required  which  will  not,  like  the  other,  flake 
and  crumble  when  handled.  To  make  puff  paste, 
put  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  water  and 
bring  them  to  a  boil,  adding  half  a  pound  of  flour 
and  stirring  until  the  mixture  is  smooth.  Remove 
It  from  the  fire,  add  ten  well  beaten  eggs,  and 
stir  vigorously. 

Almond  Cakes 

In  a  large  bowl  place  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds, 
a  pound  of  sugar,  with  a  little  spice,  and  essence 
of  lemon.  Add  the  yolks  of  fifteen  eggs,  and  mix 
them  all  together  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Stir  in 
the  well-beaten  whites,  and  add  a  little  sifted 
pastry  flour,  which  must  be  thoroughly  worked 
in.  Have  buttered  gem  tins  in  readiness,  and 
bake  the  cakes  to  a  light  brown  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


Good  living  is  due  to  that  action  of  the  judgment 
by  which  the  things  which  please  our  taste  are 
preferred  to  all  others. 

[21] 


Allumette 

Roll  out  ice-cold  leaf  paste  to  the  thickness  of  a 
quarter  of  an  inch.  Cover  it  with  Royal  icing 
made  of  confectioner's  sugar  and  the  whites  of 
eggs,  mixed  thoroughly  together.  Cut  into  strips 
one  by  three  inches,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Apple  Tart  Milanaise 

Line  patty  pans  with  leaf  paste;  pare  and  core 
apples,  and  chop  rather  fine.  Put  in  enough  to 
cover  the  centre.  Over  this  place  a  layer  of  moist 
sugar,  and  bake.  Covering  the  apples  when  baked 
with  apricot  jam  will  improve  the  flavor. 

Arrowroot  Tartlet 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot  with  enough 
cold  milk  to  make  a  smooth  batter  moderately 
thick.  Pour  a  pint  of  scalding  hot  milk  on  the 
batter,  stirring  constantly  to  keep  it  smooth. 
Set  this  on  the  fire  a  few  minutes  to  thicken,  but 
do  not  let  it  boil.  Stir  briskly  or  it  will  lump. 
When  cold,  add  powdered  sugar  to  taste,  and  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Line  patty 
pans  with  leaf  paste  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick 
and  put  in  them  the  mixture.  Dust  powdered 
sugar  over  them,  and  bake.  A  little  nutmeg,  or 
a  little  drained  orange  peel  chopped  fine,  is  an 
improvement. 

Here  is  hut  Utile,  and  that  light  of  digestion. 
— Frances  Quarles. 

[22] 


Ascot  Tartlet 

Mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  dry  cocoanut, 
and  the  like  quantity  of  powdered  chocolate; 
sweeten  with  powdered  sugar,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Make  into  a  soft  paste  with  white  of 
egg.  Line  patty  pans  with  leaf  paste,  put  the 
above  mixture  in,  and  bake.  When  cold  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  whipped  cream  to  the  centre  of  each. 

Bachelor  Buttons 

Rub  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
five  of  flour.  Divide  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
into  two  parts;  stir  one  into  the  flour,  beat  the 
other  with  one  egg,  and  add  to  the  rest.  Flavor 
with  a  few  drops  of  almond  essence.  Make  into 
balls  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  with  the  hands, 
and  sprinkle  lightly  with  white  sugar.  Place  on 
buttered  paper,  and  bake  slowly 

Banburys 

Cut  leaf  paste  into  six-inch  squares.  Into  the 
middle  of  each  put  a  large  spoonful  of  jam.  Fold 
in  half  and  pinch  the  edges  carefully  together, 
being  sure  to  make  the  joining  tight.  Fry  in 
smoking  hot  fat  to  a  golden  brown.  Drain  and 
serve  hot. 


In  compelling  man  to  eat  to  live  nature  gives 
appetite  to  invite  him,  and  pleasure  to  reward  him. 


[23] 


Bedford  Jumbles 

Beat  well  together  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  one 
of  butter.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  flour,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  four  well -beaten  eggs,  one 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  and  flour  enough  to  roll 
out.  Grated  cocoanut,  or  fine  shredded  almonds, 
sprinkled  on  each  cake,  is  a  delicious  addition. 
Bake  on  greased  tins. 

Berne  Sandwich 

Roll  out  leaf  paste,  cut  into  pieces  three  inches 
square,  cover  the  middle  of  each  with  apricot  jam, 
wet  around  the  edges,  place  a  cover  over  same, 
close  carefully,  trim  the  edges  neatly,  and  bake. 
When  cold,  ice  carefully  with  water  icing,  and  pipe 
according  to  fancy  with  red  currant  jelly. 


By  an  approved  recipe  make  sponge  cakes.  Bake 
in  small  buttered  cups  or  tins.  When  cold,  cut 
a  piece  from  the  centre  of  each  cake.  Fill  the 
cavity  with  ripe  strawberries,  and  lay  strips  of 
angelica  across  to  form  handles.  Serve  whipped 
and  sweetened  cream  with  the  berry  baskets  thus 
made. 


With  weights  and  measures  just  and  true, 

Oven  of  even  heat; 
Well  buttered  tins  and  quiet  nerves, 

Success  will  be  complete. 

[24] 


Block  Houses 

Roll  and  cut  leaf  paste  into  a  thin  sheet  of  about 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  into 
strips  three  inches  long  and  half  an  inch  wide. 
Bake  in  quick  oven  and  form  block  houses  by 
making  squares  of  three  pastry  strips  to  each  side 
overlapping  the  corners,  fence  fashion.  Roll  leaf 
paste  in  granulated  sugar.  Lay  on  pan  with  the 
sugar  side  up. 

Brambles 

One  lemon  grated  whole,  one  cupful  of  raisins 
seeded  and  chopped  fine,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  cracker  dust.  Roll 
leaf  paste  as  thin  as  possible,  put  a  layer  on 
baking  sheet,  spread  with  the  above  mixture,  and 
put  on  another  layer  of  paste.  Mark  off  with 
a  pastry  jagger  in  strips  four  inches  long  by  two 
inches  wide,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These 
are  good  with  a  thin  icing,  and  are  delicious  with 
cocoa  or  chocolate  for  luncheon. 

Another  rich  filling  is  made  by  chopping  fine  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  figs,  two  ounces  of  citron, 
a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  pistachio  nuts  or  almonds, 
and  two  ounces  of  seeded  raisins.  Add  one  egg 
well  beaten,  and  use  as  above. 


All  the  labor  of  man  is  for  his  mouth,  and  yet 
the  appetite  is  not  filled. 

— Solomon, 

[25] 


Brownies 

Two  small  ciipfuls  of  sugar,  one  of  milk,  three  of 
flour,  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  four 
eggs,  two  squares  of  chocolate,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  vanilla,  three  of  baking  powder.  Mix  the  cake, 
leaving  half  the  milk,  and  dissolve  the  chocolate 
in  this.  Add  the  batter.  Bake  in  very  small 
cakes.     While  hot  dip  in  eclair  icing. 

Eclair  Icing:  Two  squares  of  chocolate,  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  three  of  boiling 
water.  Mix  the  sugar  and  chocolate,  and  stir 
over  the  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy.  Icing 
should  never  be  more  than  lukewarm. 

Charlotte  Baskets 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon 
colored,  and  add  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  gradually, 
continuing  beating.  Then  add  a  teaspoonful  and 
a  half  of  cold  water.  Mix  and  sift  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch,  half  a  cupful  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Add  to  the  first  mixture.  When  well  mixed,  add 
the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs.  Bake  in  buttered  gem  pans  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes.  Scoop  out  the  centre  and 
fill  with  whipped  cream. 


We  sit  to  chat  as  well  as  eat — nothing  but  sit 
and  sit  and  eat  and  eat. 

— Shakespeare. 

126] 


Charlotte  Frankfort 

Line  the  individual  charlotte  moulds  with  lady 
fingers  in  three  colors,  pink,  white,  and  chocolate. 
Fill  in  the  centre  with  whipped  cream  a  I'orange, 
and  decorate  with  almonds  and  pistachio. 

Charlotte  Russe 

Soak  two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in  a  teacupful 
of  milk.  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  and 
half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar;  place  in  a  double 
boiler,  with  one  cupful  of  milk.  Mix  until  the 
whole  begins  to  thicken.  Add  the  gelatine,  and 
strain  into  a  large  basin.  Place  this  in  a  pan  of 
ice,  and  when  it  begins  to  cool,  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  well-beaten,  half  a  cupful  of  sherry,  and 
a  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Stir  well,  pour  into 
moulds  that  have  been  lined  with  sponge  cake, 
and  set  away  to  harden.  With  the  quantities 
given,  twenty  cups  can  be  filled.  The  lining  may 
be  one  piece  of  sponge  cake  hollowed  out,  or 
strips  of  the  same,  or  lady's  fingers. 


The  pleasures  of  the  table  are  common  to  all 
ages  and  ranks,  to  all  countries  and  times;  they 
not  only  harmonize  with  all  the  other  pleasures,  but 
remain  to  console  us  for  their  loss. 

[27] 


Cheese  Roulettes 

Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  a  cupful  of  dry 
grated  cheese  —  Parmesan  preferred.  Whip  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  stiff,  and  mix  in  the  cheese. 
Flour  the  hands,  and  mould  the  mixture  into  balls 
the  size  of  walnuts.  Drop  into  boiling  fat,  and 
fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Lay  on  crumpled  paper 
to  absorb  the  grease.     Serve  hot. 


Cherry  Tart 


Line  six  or  eight  tart  moulds  with  leaf  paste. 
Brush  them  with  apple  marmalade,  fill  with  stoned 
cherries,  sprinkle  with  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  on  the  edges  and  melt  or 
glaze  it  in  the  oven  for  two  minutes.  Remove 
the  tartlets,  and  let  them  cool.  Turn  them  out 
of  the  moulds,  cover  with  a  thin  coating  of  apple 
jelly,  and  serve  with  an  ornamental  dish  paper. 

Chesterfields 

Scald  half  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  pour  this  over 
eight  sponge  cakes,  and  let  it  stand  until  cold. 
Add  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
and  the  whites  of  two,  previously  well  beaten. 
When  well  mixed  add  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and 
put  into  patty  pans  lined  with  leaf  paste.  Dust 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake. 

A  wise  man  seeketh  not  quantity,  but  sufficiency. 
[28] 


Chocolate  Sponge  Cake 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  half 
a  cupful  of  water,  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  and 
yolks  of  five,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  froth, 
add  the  sugar,  then  the  beaten  yolks,  and  the  rest 
of  the  ingredients.  Bake  in  thin  loaves.  Cut  in 
fancy  shapes  after  being  baked. 

Frosting:  Twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  two  squares 
of  chocolate.  Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  mix  with  a  white  frosting.  Frost  each 
cake  separately.  This  quantity  will  make  twenty 
cakes. 

Chocolate  Supreme 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  sugar,  and 
two  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  ground  almonds.  Beat 
the  whites  of  seven  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add 
the  almonds  and  sugar.  Bake  in  drops  on  greased 
pans. 

Filling:  A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter, 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  pastry  cream  mixed 
with  a  little  cocoa.  Put  chocolate  icing  on  top, 
and  almonds  around  the  outside. 


He  who  receives  friends  without  himself  bestow- 
ing some  pains  upon  the  repast  prepared  for  them, 
does  not  deserve  to  have  friends, 

[29] 


Chocolate  Tartlets 

Four  eggs,  half  a  cake  of  grated  chocolate,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Rub  the 
chocolate  smooth  in  milk,  heat  over  the  fire,  and 
add  the  cornstarch  wet  with  milk.  Stir  until 
thickened,  and  pour  out.  When  cold,  beat  in  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  sugar,  and  the  flavoring. 
Bake  in  patty  pans  lined  with  leaf  paste.  Cover 
with  meringue,  and  serve  cold. 

Cocoanut  Cakes 

Cream  a  teacupful  of  butter  with  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
gradually  adding  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  cupful 
of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cocoanut.  Mix,  pour  into 
small  gem  pans,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Turn  out,  and  when  cool,  brush  over 
with  melted  jelly,  and  roll  in  fine  shredded  cocoa- 
nut  or  blanched  chopped  almonds.  Serve  with  a 
pistachio  nut  on  top. 


Make  me  a  liltle  cake. 

— I  Kings. 

[30] 


Cocoanut  Cones 

Grate  the  meat  of  a  cocoanut,  and  add  half  its 
weight  in  sugar;  stir  in  the  whipped  white  of  an 
egg.  Roll  the  mixture  into  balls  or  cones,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  min- 
utes. If  the  mixture  is  too  soft  to  hold  its  shape, 
a  little  flour  may  be  added. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Cuts 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  one  of  cornstarch.  Add  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  and  two  cupfuls 
of  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Stir  in  a  cup  of  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  and  when  cold,  spread  between  layers  of 
sponge  cake.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff, 
sweeten,  and  spread  on  the  cake.  Sprinkle  thick 
with  cocoanut  and  brown  slightly.  Cut  in  bars 
and  garnish  with  candied  cherries.     Serve  cold. 

Cocoanut  Tea  Cakes 

Roll  leaf  paste  to  one-quarter  of  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness. Shape  with  a  cutter,  and  bake  on  a  tin 
sheet  in  a  hot  oven.  When  nearly  done,  remove 
from  oven,  cool,  and  brush  over  with  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg,  sprinkle  with  shredded  cocoanut, 
and  return  to  the  oven  until  colored  a  light  brown. 


Vich  is  your  partickler  ivanity?     Vich  wanity 
do  you  like  the  flavor  on  best? 

— Dickens. 

[31] 


Coffee  Cream  Filling 

Roast  six  ounces  of  coffee.  When  it  becomes  oily 
put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  three  cups  of  boiHng 
milk.  Cover  the  pan,  let  it  stand  until  nearly 
cold,  and  strain  through  a  cloth.  Mix  a  small 
quantity  of  this  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  with  a  little  salt. 
Put  the  whole  into  a  saucepan  and  boil  slowly 
until  it  is  of  such  consistency  that  it  adheres  to 
a  spoon  while  cooking.  Add  three  ounces  of  butter 
slightly  colored,  with  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar  and  the  same  quantity  of  powdered 
macaroons,  stirring  the  whole  until  smooth  and 
compact. 

Colonial  Tartlets 

A  large  cupful  of  seeded  chopped  raisins,  or  can- 
died cherries,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix 
well,  and  put  the  mixture  on  rounds  of  pie  crust 
from  six  to  seven  inches  in  diameter.  Fold  to- 
gether from  three  sides  so  that  the  shape  will 
resemble  a  cockade  hat.  Press  the  edges  firmly 
together  to  hold  the  mixture  in  well,  set  into  a 
baking  pan,  brush  over  with  a  little  sweetened 
milk,  and  bake  brown. 


The  fate  of  nations  depends  upon  how  they  are 
fed. 

[32] 


Cranberry  Tarts 

Line  patty  pans  with  leaf  paste,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  When  cool,  fill  with  a  thick  jellied 
cranberry  sauce,  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made 
with  the  white  of  an  ^gg,  whipped  stiff,  and  a  cup- 
ful of  powdered  sugar.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  tinged  a  pale  straw  color.  Or,  instead  of  the 
meringue,  drop  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on 
each  just  before  serving. 

Creamed  Apple  Tart 

Line  deep  patty  tins  with  leaf  paste.  Mix  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  cut  apples  with  three-quarters  of  a 
cupful  of  brown  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  half  a  lemon,  and  fill  the  pans.  Cover  with 
another  layer  of  paste,  and  bake  until  well  done. 
Lift  the  top  crust  and  put  a  tablespoonful  of 
boiled  custard  in  each.  Return  the  cover,  and 
let  it  be  ice  cold  when  served.  Whipped  cream 
may  also  be  used  for  filling.  In  this  case,  heap  it 
high  and  do  not  cover.  This  is  an  old-fashioned 
Dutch  dish. 


Without  good  company  all  dainties  lose  their 
true  relish,  and  like  painted  grapes,  are  only 
seen,  not  tasted, 

[33] 


Cream  Cones 

Roll  out  leaf  paste,  cut  in  strips  four  and  a  half 
inches  long  and  three-quarters  of  an  inch  wide. 
Wrap  around  tin  cone  beginning  at  the  point  and 
gradually  covering  the  cone.  Lay.  on  baking 
sheet,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty 
minutes.  Take  out  before  done  and  dust  with 
powdered  sugar;  return  to  the  oven  for  about  two 
minutes.  Cones  may  be  filled  with  whipped  cream 
or  pastry  cream. 


Set  a  saucepan  containing  a  cupful  of  boiling  water 
and  half  a  cupful  of  butter  over  the  fire;  when  the 
mixture  boils,  sift  in  a  cupful  of  flour,  and  beat 
vigorously  while  cooking.  When  the  mixture 
leaves  the  side  of  the  pan,  turn  into  a  bowl,  beat 
in  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  very  thoroughly. 
The  mixture  is  now  ready  for  baking.  Take  a 
pastry  bag  with  tube  an  inch  in  diameter,  and 
force  the  batter  on  a  buttered  baking  paper  in 
balls  about  two  inches  in  diameter.  If  one  does 
not  have  a  bag  and  tube,  the  mixture  can  be  put 
on  the  buttered  sheet  by  spoonfuls.  Brush  over 
the  top  with  a  little  beaten  egg  diluted  with  milk, 
before  putting  into  the  oven.  Bake  about  twenty- 
five  minutes.  When  cool,  slit  open  at  one  side 
and  fill  with  pastry  cream,  or  whipped  cream. 
Dust  the  top  with  fine  sugar. 

/  am  glad  that  my  Adonis  has  a  sweet  tooth  in 
his  head. 

— Lyly. 

[34] 


Cream  Tart 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  a  saucepan,  flavor  it  with 
vanilla,  and  place  it  over  the  fire;  stir  in  gradually 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  the  finest  sifted  flour, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  continue  stirring  over  the  fire 
until  thick.  When  ready,  move  the  cream  to  the 
side  of  the  stove,  and  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of 
six  eggs,  taking  care  to  keep  the  mixture  free  from 
lumps.  Line  tart  pans  with  leaf  paste,  and  pour 
in  the  prepared  cream,  using  the  trimmings  of  the 
paste  to  make  a  rim  to  the  tart  and  strips  across. 
Brush  the  paste  over  with  a  feather  or  fine  brush 
dipped  in  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 


Mix  half  a  pound  of  ground  sweet  almonds  with 
the  like  quantity  of  powdered  sugar,  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
citron  chopped  fine.  Add  an  ounce  of  ground 
bitter  almonds.  Rub  these  all  together  until  fine, 
and  stir  in  half  a  pound  of  creamed  butter.  When 
well  mixed,  add  eight  eggs  and  a  quart  of  milk. 
Put  in  a  stewpan  on  fire,  stir  until  it  thickens, 
and  when  cold  put  into  patty  pans  lined  with  leaf 
paste.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Sweet  were  the  sauce  would  please  each  kind  of 
taste. 


-Sir  Walter  Raleigh. 
[35] 


Dainty  Doodles 


Place  a  small  quantit}^  of  puff  paste  in  a  pastry 
bag.  Butter  a  baking  sheet  and  form  small  round 
biscuits  on  same.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  powdered 
sugar,  place  in  a  brisk  oven,  and  bake  for  twelve 
minutes.  Cool,  lift  from  the  pan,  and  lay  them 
upside  down  on  a  table.  Make  a  small  cavity 
half  an  inch  in  diameter  in  each  and  fill  with 
whipped  or  pastry  cream.  Fasten  them  together 
two  by  two  to  enclose  the  cream;  they  should 
then  be  ball-shaped.  Dip  carefully  and  separately 
into  a  thick  icing,  and  lay  on  a  pastry  grating  to 
dry  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Date  Dell 


Scoop  out  the  centres  of  small  sponge  cakes,  and 
fill  with  a  mixture  of  chopped  dates  and  walnuts. 
Cover  with  whipped  cream,  and  serve  with  choco- 
late sauce. 

Dessert  Cakes 

Mix  well  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  beaten 
to  a  cream  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  light 
brown  sugar,  a  similar  amount  of  ground  rice, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Beat 
three  eggs  thoroughtly,  and  stir  them  into  the 
mixture.  Butter  small  cake  tins,  pour  in  this 
preparation,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  ten 
to  twelve  minutes.     Any  flavored  decoration  may 

be  used. 

They  call  for  dates  and  quinces  in  the  pastry, 

— Shakespeare. 
[36] 


Dixie  Cakes 

Beat  half  a  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  mix  well,  and  add  the  yokes  of  five 
eggs.  When  mixed,  add  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
cocoa  dissolved  in  a  cupful  of  water.  Sift  together 
two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  pastry  flour,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cornstarch.  Add  this  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  the  batter.  Beat  well,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cold,  ice  with 
chocolate  icing  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Eclairs 

Force  puff  paste  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube 
upon  buttered  sheets,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  When  cool,  cut 
open  and  fill  with  pastry  cream.  Any  icing  may 
be  used,  but  chocolate  is  perhaps  the  most  pre- 
ferred. 

Chocolate  Icing:  Mix  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cocoa  with  five  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  three  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  the  fire  until 
smooth  and  glossy.  Cool  slightly  and  dip  the 
eclairs  in  the  icing. 


My  mission  in  life  is  a  sweet  one,  I  claim, 
For  the  children's  eyes  brighten  at  hearing  my 
name. 

[371 


Fanchonettes 

Line  tart  pans  with  leaf  paste.  Beat  four  eggs 
until  light,  stir  into  them  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and  two  of  butter  —  the  butter  must  be 
beaten  until  it  is  like  cream  —  three-quarters  of 
a  pint  of  milk,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  simmer  until  thick.  Flavor 
with  bitter  almonds;  pour  the  mixture  into  the 
pans,  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  When  done,  slip 
the  fanchonettes  out  of  the  pans.  While  they  are 
cooling,  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  froth, 
and  stir  into  it  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar,  with  which  smooth  the  tops  of  the  tartlets. 

Fancy  Pastry 

Roll  leaf  paste  twelve  inches  long  and  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick;  cut  in  strips  half  an  inch  wide, 
place  on  the  edges  and  flatten  out;  cut  in  lengths 
of  four  inches,  put  on  baking  sheets,  and  bake  in 
a  rather  warm  oven.  When  cold,  spread  on  the 
bottom  of  one  piece  some  jam,  and  set  it  against 
another  piece,  bottom  to  bottom,  with  the  jam 
between.  Pipe  with  stiff  icing  and  red  currant 
jelly  according  to  fancy. 


0,  weary  mothers,  mixing  dough, 
Don't  you  wish  that  food  would  grow? 
Your  lips  would  smile,  I  know,  to  see 
A  cooky  bush  or  a  doughnut  tree. 

[38] 


Roll  leaf  paste  one-third  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into 
strips  two  inches  long  and  an  inch  wide.  Spread 
a  baking  dish  thick  with  butter,  and  arrange  the 
pieces  of  paste  on  it,  placing  them  on  their  sides, 
leaving  a  small  piece  between  them.  Set  them  in 
the  oven,  and  when  they  are  firm  and  the  sides 
spread,  glaze  them  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and 
dust  with  powdered  sugar.  When  cooked,  set 
them  on  paper  to  drain  off  any  grease.  They  may 
be  masked  separately  with  a  quantity  of  different 
colored  jams. 


Line  patty  pans  with  a  thin  sheet  of  pie  crust. 
Break  three  eggs  into  a  quart  of  milk,  add  stale 
cake  crumbs  to  form  a  stiff  mass  —  just  stiff 
enough  to  run  easy.  Before  finishing  the  mixing 
add  a  good  quantity  of  figs  cut  up  rather  fine;  fill 
this  mixture  into  the  patty  pans,  and  bake.  Prunes 
may  be  substituted,  but  figs  are  better.  A  pinch 
of  allspice  will  improve  the  taste. 


/  eat  a  palatable  Jig. 

— Browning. 

[39] 


Financiere 

Beat  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  and  a  pound  of  icing 
sugar  over  the  fire  until  warm,  and  then  beat 
until  cold.  Mix  with  a  half  a  pound  of  flour, 
and  half  a  pound  of  sliced  almonds.  Put  some 
almonds  in  the  bottom  of  the  mould,  and  also  on 
top.      Bake,  and  glaze  the  top  with  apricot  jelly. 

Franco  Russe 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  almonds,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  seven  eggs 
beaten  very  stiff.  Mix,  and  bake  on  greased  pans 
in  square  shapes.  Bake  slowly.  When  baked  fill 
with  praline  cream.  On  the  top  put  a  strip  of  red 
sugar,  a  strip  of  green  sugar,  and  so  on  until  the 
cake  is  finished. 

Praline:  Two  cupfuls  of  sugar  melted  to  caramel, 
mixed  with  half  a  pound  of  almonds.  Grind  them 
fine  until  oily. 

Praline  Butter  Cream:  A  pound  of  sweet  butter, 
add  four  cupfuls  of  pastry  cream  and  praline  the 
size  of  an  egg. 


The  discovery  of  a  new  dish  does  more  for  the 
happiness  of  the  human  race  than  the  discovery  of 
a  new  planet. 

[401 


Frangipane  Tartlet 

Rub  four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  smooth  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream.  Add  three  ground 
macaroons,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon,  a  little  citron  cut  fine, 
and  a  dash  of  brandy.  Put  all  into  a  saucepan 
and  let  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  slowly  to  prevent 
lumps.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  take  from  the 
fire  for  a  minute,  and  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs.  Stand  the  saucepan  in  another  of 
boiling  water  and  return  to  the  stove,  stirring 
until  the  eggs  seem  done  —  about  five  minutes  if 
the  water  boils  all  the  time.  Line  patty  pans  with 
leaf  paste,  fill  with  the  frangipane,  and  bake. 
Ornament  with  chopped  almonds  and  meringue. 

French  Tartlets 

Roll  out  some  leaf  paste  not  quite  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  and  with  a  plain  or  fluted  cutter 
about  three  inches  in  diameter  cut  as  many  cases 
as  you  require  to  fill.  Mark  the  centre  with  a 
two-inch  cutter,  and  bake.  When  cold,  remove 
the  centre  pieces,  and  take  out  as  much  of  the 
soft  paste  as  you  can  without  damaging  the  bot- 
toms or  sides.  Fill  with  any  desired  fruit  or 
custard. 


Appetite  comes  with  eating. 

— Rabelais. 

[41] 


Frosted  Cream 

A  cupful  and  a  half  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  half 
a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  hot  lard, 
two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  level 
tablespoonful  of  soda,  and  six  cupfuls  of  sifted 
flour.  Mix  well  in  the  usual  way.  Pour  in  a 
dripping  pan.  Roll  with  a  floured  tumbler,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cut  in  bars  with  a 
knife  dipped  in  flour,  and  ice. 

Icing:  One  cupful  of  icing  sugar,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water. 

Gallettes 

Sift  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour  upon  a  board. 
Make  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  put  in  it  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  slightly  warmed  butter,  a  little  salt, 
and  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  into  it;  work  the 
butter  well  with  the  water,  gradually  mixing  in 
the  flour  so  as  to  give  it  the  consistency  of  leaf 
paste.  Let  it  remain  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  in 
the  meantime  work  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a 
cloth  until  it  is  quite  firm ;  pat  it  into  a  flat  square 
shape.  Put  the  square  of  butter  on  the  paste, 
and  cover  it  with  the  edges  that  project.  Give  it 
several  turns  like  leaf  paste,  and  at  the  last  turn 
make  it  about  an  inch  in  thickness.     Cut  it  into 


We  shall  do  nothing  hut  eat  and  make  good  cheer. 

— Shakespeare. 

[42] 


round  shapes  with  scalloped  edges.  Put  it  upside 
down  on  a  baking  dish,  brush  it  over  with  egg. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  and  just  before  taking  out  sprinkle  over 
with  sugar  glaze.    It  is  then  ready  for  use. 


Genoese  Pastry 


Melt  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  taking  care 
it  does  not  get  very  hot.  Break  five  eggs  into  a 
bowl,  add  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  them,  stand  the 
bowl  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  whip 
the  eggs  and  sugar  for  twenty  minutes,  but  they 
must  not  get  very  hot.  Take  the  bowl  from  the 
water,  add  a  cupful  of  almond  paste  crumbled 
fine,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  the  butter,  and 
last  of  all  sift  in  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter,  stirring  lightly  all  the  time.  Line  a  round 
jelly-cake  pan  with  buttered  paper,  neatly  fitted 
and  standing  an  inch  above  the  edges,  and  bake 
in  a  rather  quick  oven  for  half  an  hour.  When 
done,  no  mark  should  be  left  on  it  when  pressed 
with  the  finger. 

Gooseberry  Tart 

Line  patty  pans  with  leaf  paste.  Scald  a  pint  of 
gooseberries  with  a  little  water  over  the  fire,  add 
half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar  and  fill  the  pans  with 
the  mixture.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


In  eating  the  order  is  frotn  the  more  substantial 
to  the  lighter. 

[43] 


Greater  New  Yorks 

Sift  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking-powder  into  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  and  add  three  pounds  of 
crumbled  stale  cake,  which  has  been  passed 
through  a  sieve.  Cream  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter  and  add  half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  a 
pint  of  molasses,  half  a  pint  of  yolks.  Flavor  with 
mixed  spices,  and  stir  all  together  with  enough 
milk  to  form  a  slack  mass.  Bake  in  muffin  tins. 
Decorate  with  pink  icing. 

Hazel-nut  Tart  a  VAnglaise 

Half  a  pound  of  ground  hazel-nuts,  three-quarters 
of  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  the  beaten  whites 
of  twelve  eggs,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
sugar.  Roll  out  leaf  paste,  press  it  in  the  tart 
molds,  and  fill  them  with  the  mixture.  Powder 
over  with  sugar  and  bake  slowly. 

Hickory-nut  Tarts 

Mix  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  cupful  of  chopped  hickory- 
nuts,  half  a  cupful  of  raisins,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Line  the 
tart  pans  with  leaf  paste,  fill  with  the  mixture, 
and  bake.  Put  whipped  cream  over  them  when 
ready  to  use. 


As  the  last  of  sweets  is  sweetest  last. 

— Shakespeare. 

[44] 


Hotjumbles 

A  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  a  cupful  of  sour  milk 
or  cream,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  three 
eggs,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Flavor  to 
taste.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  greased  tin 
and  bake. 

Icing 

Four  pounds  of  icing  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
glucose,  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  half  a  pint 
of  water.  Warm  slightly,  and  add  any  flavor 
preferred. 

Individual  Pumpkin  Pie 

Mix  together  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  dry  cooked 
pumpkin  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  cupful  of 
milk,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
molasses,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  and  a  little  salt.  Pour  into  small 
pastry  lined  tins,  and  bake  golden  brown. 

Jalousie 

Roll  out  strips  of  leaf  paste  about  four  inches 
wide,  put  apricot  marmalade  on  top,  with  small 
strips  of  leaf  paste  criss-crossed  over.  Powder 
with  icing  sugar  when  baked. 


/  hear,  I  speak,  I  smell  sweet  savours. 

— Shakespeare. 

145] 


Jumbles 


Put  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  into  a  mortar, 
with  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  brandy,  and  enough  whites  of  eggs 
to  make  into  a  rather  stiff  paste.  Mould  this 
paste  into  small  round  balls  about  an  inch  and  a 
quarter  in  diameter.  Bake  on  paper  in  a  cool  oven. 
They  should  rise  like  little  puffs. 


Rub  well  together  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  half 
a  pound  of  sugar  until  light.  Beat  in  three  or 
four  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Mix  with  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Put  into  a  pastry  bag  with  a  half-inch  tube,  and 
lay  the  mixture  on  lightly  buttered  baking  sheet 
in  the  form  of  rings  an  inch  and  a  quarter  in  di- 
ameter.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


Lady  Fingers 


Beat  together  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  the 
yolks  of  seven  eggs;  add  the  well-beaten  whites 
and  half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  mixing  thor- 
oughly with  a  wooden  spoon.  Place  the  mixture 
in  a  pastry  bag,  and  on  a  baking  sheet  covered 
with  paper  lay  it  in  cakes  about  four  inches  long 
and  three-quarters  of  an  inch  wide.  Dust  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes,  without  browning. 

Dainty  bits  make  rich  the  ribs. 

—Shakespeare. 

[46] 


Lemon  Drop  Cakes 

Cream  a  cup  of  sugar  and  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  add  three  well-beaten  eggs,  three  cups 
of  sifted  flour,  a  pound  of  currants,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, and  a  cupful  of  milk.  Flavor  with  lemon 
extract.  Stir  slowly  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Drop  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  on  a  well-greased 
dripping  pan,  and  bake  five  to  ten  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven  until  brown. 


Roll  leaf  paste  out  thin  and  cut  it  into  four-inch 
squares.  Wet  the  edges,  and  in  the  centre  put 
some  marmalade  or  jam,  and  close  neatly.  Dust 
with  coarse  powdered  sugar  and  ground  sweet 
almonds,  then  bake. 


Mix  a  pound  of  ground  sweet  almonds  with  the 
same  quantity  of  powdered  sugar,  adding  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Make  into  a  stiff  batter 
with  sufficient  whites  of  eggs;  put  in  bags,  and 
spot  out  the  size  of  large  macaroons.  Sprinkle 
the  tops  with  powdered  sugar.  Bake  in  a  cool 
oven  for  thirty  minutes. 


Blest  be  those  feasts  with  simple  plenty  crowned. 

— Goldsmith. 
[47] 


Macaroon  Panachee 

A  pound  of  almonds,  a  pound  of  hazel-nuts  ground, 
two  pounds  of  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  fifteen  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Mix,  and  dress  on  paper  in  oval 
shape.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  six  or  eight 
minutes.  When  cold  put  chocolate  cream  on  top, 
and  decorate  with  chopped  almonds  and  pistachios. 

Chocolate  Cream:  Mix  together  three-quarters 
of  a  cupful  of  cornstarch,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
a  speck  of  salt,  dilute  with  a  third  of  a  cupful  of 
cold  milk,  add  two  cupfuls  of  scalded  milk,  and 
cook  over  hot  water  ten  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thickened;  melt  a  square  and  a  half 
of  chocolate,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  hot 
water,  stir  until  smooth,  and  add  to  cooked  mix- 
ture; add  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.    Chill  and  serve  with  cream. 


But  for  life  the  universe  were  nothing,  and  all 
that  has  life  requires  nourishment. 

m 


Maids  of  Honor 

Warm  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
rennet,  and  let  it  stand  by  the  side  of  the  fire  or  in 
a  warm  place  to  get  pretty  hot,  or  until  the  curd 
is  quite  firm.  Strain,  and  press  out  the  whey. 
Put  the  curd  into  a  pan  or  basin  and  rub  it  until 
quite  smooth.  Add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
a  teacupful  of  sugar,  and  two  eggs.  Mix  well, 
and  add  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  lemon  juice  to 
flavor,  and  a  few  currants.  A  stale  sponge  cake 
rubbed  fine  into  this  is  an  improvement.  Roll 
some  leaf  paste  to  the  thickness  of  a  quarter  of 
an  inch,  leaving  it  two  inches  across.  Put  on 
patty  pans  the  same  size  and  pour  on  the  curd. 
Cover  the  whole  of  the  paste,  even  to  the  very 
edge.  Dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Marguerites 

A  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  half  a 
cupful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mace.  Add  enough 
flour,  roll  them  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  rounds, 
lay  them  in  a  floured  pan  so  as  not  to  touch,  and 
bake  quickly.  When  cool,  put  on  each  a  lump  of 
currant  jelly,  and  on  this  a  heap  of  stiff  frosting 
flavored  with  lemon.  Set  in  a  warm  oven  until 
^  pale  brown. 

Any  pretty  little  kickshaws. 

— Shakespeare. 

[49] 


Meringues 

To  a  cupful  of  whites  of  eggs,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  slowly  at  first  and  then 
faster  until  very  stiff;  whisk  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  fine  granulated  sugar;  add  the  same  quantity 
of  sugar  twice  more,  beating  vigorously  each  time 
before  more  is  added.  Continue  beating  until 
the  mixture  can  be  cut  with  a  knife.  Add  as  much 
more  granulated  sugar  as  remains  of  a  cupful, 
less  the  tablespoonfuls  taken  out,  and  fold  into 
the  mass  lightly  and  smoothly.  Dredge  a  light 
buttered  baking  sheet  with  flour;  drop  the  mix- 
ture on  the  paper,  giving  each  tablespoonful  an 
oval  shape.  Dust  these  with  fine  granulated 
sugar,  and  bake  in  a  cool  oven  until  a  light  brown. 
These  should  dry  out  rather  than  bake  at  first. 

Mince  Tarts 

In  the  centre  of  a  four-inch  square  of  leaf  paste 
place  a  small  mound  of  mincemeat  prepared  as 
for  pies.  Gather  up  the  four  corners,  and  pinch 
the  edges  close  together.  Place  a  lump  of  butter 
on  top  of  each,  and  sprinkle  well  with  cinnamon 
and  sugar.    Bake  and  serve  with  brandy  sauce. 

Brandy  Sauce:  Cream  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of 
butter;  add  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  gradually, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy  very  slowly,  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  half  a  cupful 
of  cream.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens 
as  a  custard.  Pour  it  on  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs,  and  mix  thoroughly. 

It  is  only  at  the  table  that  man  never  feels  bored 
during  the  first  hour. 

[50] 


Mirlitons 

Pound  and  sift  six  macaroons,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  grated  chocolate,  and  a  pint  of  hot  milk.  Let 
it  stand  for  ten  minutes,  and  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Line  patty  tins 
with  leaf  paste,  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Mocha  Cream  Cake 

A  cupful  of  sugar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of 
butter  creamed  together.  Add  half  a  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  and  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  flour  which 
has  been  sifted  several  times  with  one  and  a  half 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  To  this  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Bake  in  two  layers 
in  a  moderate  oven,  using  oblong  pans. 

Filling:  Half  a  cupful  of  strong,  clear  coffee,  and 
half  a  cupful  of  milk.  Heat  in  a  double  boiler; 
add  to  this  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs.  Cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 
add  slowly  to  the  custard  when  cool.  This  makes 
it  light.  When  the  cake  is  cold  cut  it  in  blocks 
four  inches  long  by  two  inches  wide;  put  two 
blocks  together  with  mocha  cream  between,  dip 
in  caramel  icing,  and  cover  all  over  with  chopped 
almonds. 


The  turnpike  road  to  peoples'  hearts,  I  find, 
Lies  through  their  mouths,  or  I  mistake  mankind. 

[51] 


Mushroom  Chantilly 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  very  stiff,  add  gradu- 
ally four  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  a  darh  of  vanilla. 
Shape  in  mushroom  style,  place  on  greased  pan, 
and  bake  very  slow.  When  cold  fill  the  centre 
with  whipped  cream. 

Napoleons 

Bake  three  sheets  of  leaf  paste.  Fill  between 
sheets  with  pastry  cream.  Spread  the  top  with 
frosting,  and  sprinkle  with  pistachio  nuts  blanched 
and  chopped.  Cut  with  a  sharp  knife  in  pieces 
about  two  and  a  half  by  four  inches. 

Neapolitaine  a  lltalienne 

Take  enough  leaf  paste  for  one  pie.  Roll  it  In 
a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  strips 
three  inches  by  one  and  a  half.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  When  cold,  spread  half  the  strips  with 
jelly  or  jam,  and  put  the  others  on  top.  Cover 
with  frosting. 


Jn  dining,  the  fault  of  the  old-time  Dutch, 
Was  pausing  too  little  and  eating  too  much. 

[52] 


Neapolitan 

Roll  out  leaf  paste  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  and 
cut  it  into  strips  about  two  inches  wide.  Lay 
these  on  a  baking  dish  a  little  distance  apart  so 
they  will  not  join  when  spreading,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven.  Remove  and  mask  half  of  them  with 
raspberry  or  strawbe^rry  jam,  and  place  the  other 
half  on  top.  Ice  them  with  colored  icing,  arrange 
tastefully  on  a  fancy  dish,  and  serve.  Pastry 
cream  is  used  a  great  deal  for  filling. 

Noisettier 

Cut  sponge  cake  in  squares,  fill  with  hazel-nut 
praline.  Put  meringue  all  over  them,  and  powder 
with  sliced  almonds  and  icing  sugar.  Put  in  oven 
for  three  or  four  minutes,  and  decorate  with 
hazel-nuts  made  out  of  almond  paste. 

Praline:  Two  cupfuls  of  sugar  melted  to  caramel, 
mixed  with  half  a  pound  of  hazel-nuts.  Grind 
them  fine  until  oily. 


Nothing  lovelier  can  he  found  in  wdman,  than 
to  study  household  goods. 

— Milton. 

[53] 


Othellos 

Beat  three  eggs  until  light.  Cream  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  add  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and 
three  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate,  melted,  one 
cupful  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour.  Spread  the  mixture  in  a 
shallow  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 
Shape  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  put  together  in 
pairs  with  White  Mountain  Cream  between  and 
on  top. 

White  Mountain  Cream:  Put  a  cupful  of  sugar 
and  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan. 
Beat  gradually,  and  boil  until  the  syrup  will 
thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Pour  syrup 
gradually  on  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  beating 
the  mixture  constantly,  and  continue  beating 
until  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread.  Add 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

Paganini  Tartlet 

Line  tart  pans  with  leaf  paste,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Place  another  tart  pan  over  the 
dough  to  keep  its  shape.  Take  out  when  done, 
and  put  half  a  teaspoonful  of  orange  marmalade 
on  each  tartlet.  Cover  this  with  meringue,  and 
put  back  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 


No  man  can  he  wise  on  an  empty  stomach, 
[54] 


Put  a  pint  of  cream  and  a  pint  of  milk  into  a 
stewpan,  which  place  on  the  fire,  and  stir  con- 
stantly with  a  wooden  spoon.  After  it  has  boiled 
up,  put  in  two  ounces  of  sugar,  the  peel  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  little  salt,  and  let  it  remain  until  the  peel 
is  infused  in  the  cream.  Beat  in  the  yolks  of 
eight  eggs,  keeping  the  pan  over  the  fire.  When 
the  cream  is  of  good  consistency,  pass  it  through 
a  fine  sieve,  rubbing  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  into 
a  basin,  where  it  may  be  kept  until  required  for 
use.  If  the  cream  is  liked  very  thick,  more  eggs 
may  be  added. 

Peach  Crusts 

Roll  leaf  paste  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it 
in  two- and -a- half -inch  squares,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.  Cool,  press  down  the  centres,  and  ar- 
range on  each  half  a  canned  peach  drained  from 
syrup  and  heated  in  the  oven.  Sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  put  brandy  into  each  cavity. 
Light  just  before  sending  to  the  table. 


A  pound  of  crumbled  stale  cake,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  each  of  currants,  seeded  raisins,  and  coarse 
chopped  almonds  or  peanuts,  one-eighth  of  a 
pound  of  fine  chopped  mixed  peels,  a  good  flavor- 
ing of  mixed  spices,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  three 

Half  the  cost  of  life  is  the  price  of  food. 
[55] 


or  four  eggs.  Mix  into  a  medium  stiff  paste  with 
molasses.  Roll  leaf  paste  into  one-eighth  inch 
sheets,  cut  it  in  two,  lay  one  sheet  on  a  level 
baking  pan  with  an  inch  high  side  to  it,  water- 
wash  it,  lay  on  a  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick 
filling,  level  it,  water-wash  it,  and  lay  on  the  other 
sheet  of  paste.  Dock  it,  water-wash  it  again,  and 
bake.  When  baked  and  cold,  cut  it  into  strips. 
Ice  the  strips  with  icing,  and  cut  it  into  fingers. 
Put  a  preserved  cherry  and  one  or  two  diamond- 
shaped  pieces  of  citron  on  each  piece. 

Petit  Fours  Bouchee 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  in  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  cold  water  until  thick,  add  a  cupful  of  sugar 
gradually,  and  beat  well.  Put  a  tablespoonful 
and  a  half  of  cornstarch  and  a  teaspoonful  and  a 
half  of  baking  powder  into  a  cup,  fill  the  rest  of  the 
cup  with  flour,  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  sift  them  together  several  times,  and  add 
to  the  mixture.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  add  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan,  cool, 
and  cut  in  shapes  with  small  round  cutter.  Split 
and  remove  a  small  portion  of  the  cake  from  the 
centre  of  each  piece.  Fill  cavities  of  half  the 
pieces  with  whipped  cream,  cover  them  with  the 
remaining  pieces,  and  press  firmly  together.  Dip 
cakes  in  icing  and  decorate  the  tops  with  pistachio 
nuts  or  glace  cherries. 

Rich  foods  which  custom  requires. 
[56] 


Pilac  Suit 

Roll  out  a  rich  biscuit  dough  about  as  thick  as 
pie  crust.  Spread  with  hot  butter,  use  any  fruit 
for  the  filling,  and  sweeten  it  well.  Roll  it  like 
a  jelly  cake,  and  cut  it  in  pieces  about  five 
inches  long.  Pinch  the  ends  together  to  keep  the 
fruit  from  oozing  out.  Set  the  pieces  in  a  well- 
buttered  tin,  and  bake.  Turn  them  so  they  will 
brown  delicately  on  both  sides. 

Pithivier 

Roll  out  thin  leaf  paste,  and  put  frangipane  on  it. 
Roll  out  another  leaf  paste,  a  little  thicker,  put 
on  top  of  the  frangipane,  and  brush  with  eggs. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Frangipane:  Rub  four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
smooth  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream.  Add  three 
ground  macaroons,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar,  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon,  a  little  citron 
cut  fine,  and  a  dash  of  brandy.  Put  all  into  a 
saucepan  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  slowly  to 
prevent  lumps.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  take 
from  the  fire  for  a  minute,  and  stir  in  the  beaten 
yolks  of  four  eggs.  Stand  the  saucepan  in  another 
of  boiling  water  and  return  to  the  stove,  stirring 
until  the  eggs  seem  done  —  about  five  minutes 
if  the  water  boils  all  the  time. 


Cookery  is  not  only  an  art  but  a  master-art, 
[57] 


Plunkets 

Cream  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  add  gradually 
half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Separate  six  eggs,  and  beat 
the  whites  until  stiff.  Beat  the  yolks,  and  add 
them  to  the  whites,  then  to  the  butter  and  sugar. 
Sift  together  twice,  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  corn- 
starch, half  a  cupful  of  flour,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  and  add  gradually  to  the  other 
mixture.  Flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
and  bake  in  patty  pans  for  fifteen  minutes. 


Roll  leaf  paste  out  thin  and  cut  it  into  two  and 
a  half  inch  squares;  brush  each  square  over  with 
the  white  of  an  ^gg,  and  fold  over  the  corners 
until  they  meet  in  the  middle.  Slightly  press 
them  together,  and  brush  over  with  the  white  of 
an  egg,  dust  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  When  done,  make  a  hole  in 
the  middle,  and  fill  it  v/ith  jelly,  jam,  or  marmalade. 


Roll  half  a  pound  of  prunes  slowly  until  soft,  pit, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  cinnamon,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  stale  bread.  Cut  leaf 
paste  into  six  inch  squares,  fill  with  the  prune 
mixture,  fold  the  four  corners  over,  and  bake  on 
pie  plates  dredged  with  flour. 

For  I  will  play  the  cook. 

— Shakespeare. 

[58] 


Quennellens 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  chopped  fine,  two 
pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  and  a  pound  of  currants. 
Chop  the  currants  and  raisins  very  fine,  and  put 
them  in  an  earthen  bowl;  add  the  rind  and  part 
of  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon,  and  a  wineglassful 
of  brandy.  Roll  out  leaf  paste  a  little  thicker 
than  for  pies,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  four  inches 
long  and  three  inches  wide.  Put  on  fruit  so  that 
the  crust  may  be  turned  over,  and  the  edges 
brought  together.  Close  the  ends  and  lay  the 
cakes  in  tins  with  a  space  between.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven,  and  do  not  let  them  brown.  Roll  in 
powdered  sugar. 

Quillet  Cafe 

Cut  thin  sponge  cake  into  squares;  fill  between 
two  squares  and  cover  the  top  with  Mocha 
cream.  Sprinkle  all  over  with  chopped  roasted 
almonds,  and  garnish  with  white  half  almonds. 

Mocha  Cream:  Half  a  cupful  of  strong,  clear 
coffee  and  half  a  cupful  of  milk.  Heat  in  a  double 
boiler;  add  to  this  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  the  well  beaten  yolks 
of  four  eggs.  Cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  add  slowly  to  the  custard  when  cool.  This 
makes  it  light. 


Little  dinners  make  people  friends, 
[59] 


Raspberry  Puff 


Roll  out  leaf  paste  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick, 
and  cut  in  pieces  four  inches  square.  Put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  raspberry  jam  in  the  centre  of  each 
piece,  fold  over  the  corners,  and  pinch  the  edges 
together  firmly,  leaving  two  or  three  vents. 
Place  on  a  sheet,,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Raspberry  Meringue  Tart 

Line  patty  tins  with  leaf  paste  rolled  thin.  Fill 
with  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crisp  and  a 
golden  brown.  When  cold  remove  the  crumbs. 
Mix  half  a  pint  of  raspberries  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  fill  the  tartlets  with  this,  high  in  the 
centre  but  away  from  the  rim.  Beat  the  whites 
of  three  or  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  in 
a  scant  cupful  of  powdered  sugar.  Cover  the 
berries  with  this  meringue.  Set  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  six  or  eight  minutes. 

Sand  Slices 

Roll  out  leaf  paste  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  into  strips  three  inches  long  and  half 
an  inch  wide.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  slightly, 
and  spread  over  the  paste,  sprinkling  with  granu- 
lated sugar,  chopped  nuts,  and  cinnamon. 


And  lucent  syrops  tinct  with  cinnamon. 

— Keats. 

[60] 


Sapphos 


Overlay  oval  tart  moulds  with  very  thin  pie  crust, 
place  raspberry  jam  on  the  bottom,  and  almond 
cream  above. 

Almond  Cream:  Stir  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  with  two  eggs,  and  the  yolks  of  two  more, 
the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  quarter  of  a  cupful 
of  milk.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  cold,  glaze 
with  pink  icing  with  granulated  chocolate  at  the 
ends,  and  three  roasted  hazel-nuts  in  the  centre. 

Savarin  au  Rhum 

Work  four  cupfuls  of  flour  into  eight  eggs,  add 
two  cupfuls  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and 
half  a  cake  of  yeast.  The  yeast  must  first  be  dis- 
solved in  warm  milk.  Fill  Savarin  moulds  half 
full  of  the  mixture,  let  it  stand  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  baked, 
soak  in  syrup  with  rum  for  about  five  minutes, 
and  serve  hot. 


Saxony 


Warm  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and 
gradually  stir  into  it  six  tablespoonfuls  of  flour; 
when  the  paste  is  free  from  lumps,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
Parmesan  cheese  cut  in  very  thin  slices  —  not 
grated.  Stir  in  three  well  beaten  eggs,  mix  thor- 
oughly, put  in  patty  pans  lined  with  leaf  paste, 
and  bake. 

The  seat  of  courage  is  the  stomach. 

[61] 


Sebastopol  Slices 

Bake  any  good  sponge  cake  on  a  shallow  pan. 
Cut  in  bars  about  four  inches  long,  place  two 
together  with  praline  cream  between.  Cover  the 
top  with  currant  jelly,  and  decorate  with  sliced 
almonds  and  pistachio  nuts. 

Praline:  Two  cupfuls  of  sugar  melted  to  caramel, 
mixed  with  half  a  pound  of  almonds.  Grind  them 
fine  until  oily. 

Praline  Butter  Cream:  To  a  pound  of  sweet 
butter,  add  four  cupfuls  of  pastry  cream  and 
praline  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Small  Cakes 

Break  an  egg  into  a  half-pint  cup,  and  add  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Fill  the  cup  with  milk. 
Sift  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  flour,  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
and  a  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  baking  powder 
together  three  times.  Stir  the  milk  mixture  into 
the  flour  mixture,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Beat  for  five  minutes.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  nut 
meats  well  floured.  Beat  for  another  minute. 
Fill  a  dozen  greased  gem  pans,  and  bake  ten 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


Cookery  means  the  hnoivledge  of  Medea  and  of 
Circe,  and  of  Helen  and  of  the  Queen  of  Sheba. 

[62] 


Snickerdoodles 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner,  three  cupfuls  of  flour, 
two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  a  cupful  of  milk,  three- 
quarters  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one  of  soda. 
Drop  in  a  pan  and  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  and 
cinnamon  over  each.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Snow-Balls 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  light,  adding  grad- 
ually a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  beating  all 
the  while.  When  very  light,  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  milk  and  a  cupful  of  flour.  Stir  vigorously 
for  a  few  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  add  quickly  to  the  batter,  with  a  rounded 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Fill  well-buttered 
cups  two-thirds  full,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 
Roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Strawberry  Puffs 

Into  a  granite  saucepan  put  a  cupful  of  milk  and 
half  a  cupful  of  butter,  and  boil.  Add  a  cupful 
of  flour,  stirring  constantly,  and  cook  two  minutes. 
It  should  be  smooth  and  velvety.  When  cool, 
beat  in  four  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  continue 
beating  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
on  buttered  tins,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.    When  cold,  split  open,  fill  with 


SU  down!    At  first  and  last  the  hearty  welcome, 

— Shakespeare. 

163] 


crushed  and  sweetened  berries,  and  coat  with 
strawberry  icing  made  by  adding  strawberry 
juice  to  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar. 

Swiss  Cakes 

Mix  half  a  pound  of  ground  sweet  almonds  with 
three  pounds  of  powdered  sugar;  flavor  with 
essence  of  lemon  and  a  little  orange-flower  water. 
Make  into  a  stiff  paste  with  sufhcient  white  of 
egg.  Work  this  paste  well,  and  make  into  small 
round  balls.  Roll  in  coarse  sugar  and  bake  on 
paper  in  a  cool  oven. 

Tarts 

Cut  leaf  paste  in  disks  three  inches  square,  two  for 
each  tart.  Cut  out  the  centre  of  one  disk  for  each 
tart,  moisten  the  ring  on  one  side  with  water  and 
fit  it  moist  side  down  on  the  other  disk.  This 
must  be  done  very  rapidly  with  all  the  disks. 
Put  them  quickly  into  a  hot  oven.  When  done, 
fill  the  cavity  with  any  desired  mixture,  such  as 
jam,  boiled  custard,  pastry  cream,  fresh  fruits, 
or  mincemeat. 


The  art  of  cookery,  when  not  allied  with  a  de- 
generate  taste  or  with  gluttony,  is  one  of  the  criteria 
of  a  people^ s  civilization. 

[64] 


Tart  de  Moi 

Take  a  straight-sided  pan  three  and  a  half  inches 
in  diameter  and  an  inch  deep.  Line  it  with  leaf 
paste.  Pinch  up  the  edges  and  notch  it.  Fill 
three-quarters  full  with  the  following  mixture: 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  crumbled  cake,  a  quarter 
of  a  cupful  of  chopped  almonds,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  seeded  raisins,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  lemon  peel,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  lemon 
extract  to  flavor.  Sift  all  the  dry  ingredients 
together  several  times.  Whisk  together  two  eggs 
and  a  gill  of  milk,  adding  flavor,  and  with  it  form 
a  medium  slack  mass,  adding  more  milk  if  needed. 
Pour  it  in  the  paste-lined  tins,  and  bake.  When 
baked,  give  the  top  a  thin  coat  of  fruit  jelly  and 
cover  with  meringue  from  a  star  or  leaf  tube. 

Tree  Cake 

Bake  any  good  sponge  cake  in  a  long  narrow  pan. 
Spread  with  pastry  cream,  and  roll  over  once  and  a 
half.  Cover  with  chocolate.  Cream  to  represent 
the  bark  on  a  tree  and  spot  with  whipped  cream ; 
cut  in  four-inch  lengths,  mould  some  tiny  green 
frogs  of  almond  paste  colored  green  with  pistachio, 
using  a  speck  of  chocolate  for  the  eyes,  and  put 
one  on  each  portion. 


New  occasions  teach  new  duties; 
Time  makes  ancient  good  uncouth. 

— Lowell. 

[65] 


Timbuctoo 

Press  out  some  nougat  in  plain  tart  moulds.  When 
cold,  fill  up  with  nougatine  butter  cream,  and 
put  some  granulated  chocolate  over. 

Nougat:  Melt  four  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar  to 
caramel,  add  two  pounds  of  chopped  almonds, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  glucose.  Roll  out  on  marble 
greased  with  oil. 

Nougatine  Butter  Cream:  Four  cupfuls  of  sweet 
butter  stirred  well,  add  a  quart  of  pastry  cream 
and  Praline  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Vanities 

Beat  a  large  egg  well,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  a  speck  of  salt,  and  five  drops  of  vanilla. 
Add  a  tablespoonful  of  water,  and  stir  in  a  cupful 
of  sifted  flour  very  gradually.  Knead  on  the 
board  until  smooth;  a  very  little  more  flour  may 
be  needed  for  rolling,  but  be  sparing,  as  the  dough 
must  be  rolled  very  thin.  Roll  as  thin  as  ordinary 
pasteboard,  and  cut  into  strips  four  inches  long 
and  an  inch  wide.  When  all  are  cut,  slit  each 
down  the  centre  to  within  an  inch  of  either  end. 
When  ready,  drop  into  hot  fat,  clip  one  end 
through  this  gash  and  give  it  a  twisted  appear- 


In  diet  lies  the  key  to  nine-tenths  of  the  social 
and  political  problems  that  vex  our  age  and  titne. 

[66] 


ance.  Now  hold  both  ends  between  the  thumb 
and  forefingers  of  each  hand,  and  let  slip  into 
hot  fat.  They  must  be  watched  and  turned  as 
soon  as  they  begin  to  get  brown,  as  they  cook  in 
a  few  minutes.  Drain,  and  sift  confectioner's 
sugar  over  them.  This  is  a  small  portion  and  can 
be  doubled  if  desired. 


Wine  Jumbles 


Mix  together  four  cupfuls  of  sugar,  a  pound  of 
butter,  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  six  eggs  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon.  Bake  in  jumble  tins,  in 
a  quick  oven,  moisten  the  tops  with  wine,  and 
sprinkle  with  fine  sugar. 


The  pleasures  of  the  table  may  be  enjoyed  every 
day  in  every  climate,  at  all  ages,  and  by  all  cou' 
ditions  of  men. 

— Brillat-Savarin. 

[67] 


Pies 


Simplicity  talks  of  pies. 

— Nathaniel  Parker  Willis. 


[69] 


Pies 

Pies,  it  is  supposed,  had  their  origin  in  the  four- 
teenth century.  They  have  come  into  world- 
wide favor  as  a  dessert  since  that  time,  and  New 
England  housewives  are  so  partial  to  them  that 
they  offer  them  for  breakfast. 

The  first  fresh  fruit  pies  of  the  season  have  a 
flavor  different  from  and  more  delicious  than  those 
made  of  older  fruits,  and  are  therefore  hailed 
with  delight  in  every  family  that  knows  them. 

Pie  crust  should  be  light  and  flaky;  it  is  then  a 
delight  to  the  epicure  and  has  no  terrors  for  the 
dyspeptic.  Some  cooks  still  cling  to  the  old- 
fashioned  method  of  making  pies  with  large  quan- 
tities of  doughy  paste.  This  is  to  be  regretted, 
for  soggy  pies  are  not  only  hard  to  digest,  but 
dull  the  brain  and  leave  the  body  sluggish. 

A  pie  properly  made,  well  baked,  and  offered 
while  fresh,  may  rightly  complete  any  luncheon 
or  dinner  the  earlier  courses  of  which  are  somewhat 
light. 


[71] 


Pie  Crust 

Rub  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  with  half  a  pound 
of  butter  and  half  a  pound  of  lard;  add  three 
ounces  of  sugar  and  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  dis- 
solved in  half  a  pint  of  water;  mix  well  and  lay 
away  in  a  cool  place.  Leaf  paste  also  makes 
delicious  pies. 

Apple  Pie  {green) 

Line  a  tin  with  pie  crust.  Fill  with  pared  and 
sliced  tart  apples.  To  the  apple  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  a  mixture  of  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar  —  more  if  liked  very  sweet  —  a  slight  dash 
of  salt,  and  an  eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  any 
spice  preferred,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  allspice,  or 
grated  lemon  rind.  Mix  carefully  till  the  butter 
and  sugar  melt.  Roll  the  top  crust,  and  lay  it 
on,  lightly  pressing  the  edges  together. 

For  festive  occasions  cover  the  top  with  whipped 
sweet  cream;  or  with  a  meringue  of  two  egg 
whites  and  two  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  flavored  with  lemon  juice,  lightly 
browned. 


One  of  those  comfortable  New  England  house- 
holds with  four  kinds  of  pie  on  the  table,  where 
they  never  think  of  asking  which  kind  you  prefer, 
but  give  you  a  piece  of  each,  sure  that  all  are  good. 
— John  Jarvis  Holden. 

[721 


Apple  Pie  (grated) 

For  one  pie,  seven  or  eight  apples  peeled  and 
grated.  To  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  add  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  pounded  almonds, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 
Mix  thoroughly,  and  add  the  grated  apples.  Bake 
in  deep  tin  with  double  crust. 


Cut  apricots  fine,  and  mix  with  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Bake 
with  double  crust. 


Blueberry  Pie 


Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  pie  crust.  Fill  with 
berries  slightly  dredged  with  flour,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  a  slight  pinch  of  salt,  cover  and  bake 
from  forty-five  to  fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Boston  Custard  Pie 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  to  a  cream.  Sift 
together  several  times,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Add  it  to  the 
yolks,  and  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Next  add 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  a  pint  of 
scalded  cream  which  has  been  cooled.  Mix  this 
in  gradually,  turn  it  into  a  deep  pie  pan  lined 
with  leaf  paste,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

Let  your  pie  be  a  joy  to  the  stomach,  not  a  surprise. 
— ^JoHN  Jarvis  Holden. 
[73] 


Cherry  Pie 


Red  cherries  make  the  best  pies.  Line  a  deep 
pie  plate  with  pie  crust,  and  fill  nearly  full  with 
stoned  cherries.  Sprinkle  it  over  with  four  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  dredge  lightly  with 
flour.  Cover  with  an  upper  crust  of  leaf  paste 
rolled  out  thin,  turn  the  edges,  and  make  vents 
in  the  centre.  Press  the  edges  lightly  together  to 
prevent  juice  from  escaping.  Serve  the  day  it 
is  baked. 

Chocolate  Pie 

A  cupful  of  milk,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  and  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate.  Cook  until 
thick,  flavor  to  taste,  and  put  in  a  crust  previously 
baked.    It  may  be  covered  with  meringue. 

Meringue:  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  until 
stiff".  Put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  pour 
over  the  pie,  and  set  in  an  oven  to  brown. 


May  life  he  like  a  pic! 

Good  crust  above,  good  crust  below. 

And  all  between  filled  deep  with  sweets! 

John  Jarvis  Holden. 

[74] 


Cocoanut  Pie 

Put  half  a  cupful  of  grated  cocoanut  to  boil  in 
one  and  one-quarter  cupfuls  of  milk.  Beat  two 
eggs  and  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  a  froth,  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Mix  with  the  milk  and 
cocoanut  after  they  have  cooled,  and  grate  half 
a  nutmeg  on  top.  Turn  the  whole  into  a  deep 
pie  plate  lined  with  pie  crust.  Bake  immediately. 
Cocoanut  pie  is  also  good  with  meringue  on  top. 

Cranberry  Pie 

Put  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  cranberries  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and 
half  a  cupful  of  water.  Cool  before  putting  in 
pie.  Bake  in  one  crust  with  a  rim  and  strips 
across  the  top. 


No  splendor  of  service  can  compensate  for  in- 
ferior or  badly  cooked  food, 

[751 


Cream  Pie 

Line  three  pie  plates  with  leaf  paste.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  When  done, 
take  them  from  the  oven  and  stand  aside  until 
wanted.  Put  a  pint  of  milk  to  boil  in  a  double 
boiler.  Moisten  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 
with  a  little  cold  milk.  Put  it  into  the  boiling 
milk  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Add 
half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  them  carefully  into  the 
boiling  mixture,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  add  the 
juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  or  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Fill  the  shells  of  baked  paste  with  this 
mixture,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  brown.  Cover 
the  paste  with  another  pie  plate  when  baking 
to  keep  the  edge  from  falling. 

Custard  Pie 

Beat  two  eggs  slightly,  add  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  cupful  and  a  half 
of  milk.  Line  a  deep  plate  with  pie  crust,  strain 
in  the  mixture,  and  sprinkle  liberally  with  grated 
nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  at  first  to  set  the 
rim,  and  decrease  the  heat,  as  the  eggs  and  milk 
need  to  be  cooked  at  a  low  temperature. 


Come,  pilgrim,  I  will  bring  you  where  you  shall 
host. 

— All's  Well  that  Ends  Well. 

176] 


Gooseberry  Pie 

Head  and  tail  sound  green  gooseberries.  Use  one 
cupful  of  sugar  to  a  cupful  of  berries,  and  cover 
with  half  a  cupful  of  water  in  which  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sifted  flour  has  been  dissolved.  Bake  with 
two  crusts. 

Grape  Pie 

Simmer  the  pulps  of  Concord  grapes  a  few  min- 
utes, and  rub  through  a  colander  to  separate  the 
seeds.  Mix  the  pulp  and  skins,  and  add  a  cupful 
of  sugar  to  a  cupful  of  fruit.  Bake  with  two 
crusts. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie,  Louise 

Heat  a  pint  of  milk;  blend  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  into  the  milk, 
and  boil  until  thick,  taking  care  not  to  burn. 
Set  aside  to  keep  warm.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  and  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the 
juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  stir  them  into  the 
milk,  and  let  all  come  to  a  boil.  Line  a  deep  pie 
tin  with  pie  crust,  and  bake.  Pour  in  the  mix- 
ture, and  put  it  in  the  oven  until  it  sets.  Have 
ready  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth; 
add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar,  and 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  pie.  Put  to  bake  in 
the  oven  until  brown,  taking  care  not  to  scorch. 


A  good  dinner  is  better  than  a  fine  coat, 
[771 


Mince  Pie 

Boil  four  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  two  pounds  of 
suet  until  tender;  cool  in  the  water  in  which  they 
are  cooked.  Remove  the  suet,  which  will  form  on 
top.  Chop  the  meat  fine,  and  add  to  it  eight 
pounds  of  apples,  three  quinces,  three  pounds  of 
sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  molasses,  two  quarts  of  cider, 
two  pounds  of  chopped  raisins,  two  pounds  of 
sultana  raisins,  three  pounds  of  currants,  and  half 
a  pound  of  chopped  citron.  Add  the  suet  and  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  the  stock  in  which  the  meat 
and  suet  were  cooked.  Heat  gradually,  stir  often, 
and  cook  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours.  Add  a 
quart  of  brandy,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon, 
a  tablespoonful  of  nutmeg,  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  cloves,  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  with 
two  crusts,  using  leaf  paste  for  the  upper  crust, 
and  pie  crust  for  the  lower. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie 

A  cupful  of  chopped  cranberries,  half  a  cupful  of 
chopped  raisins,  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water,  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Bake  between  two  crusts. 


With  a  few  friends  and  a  few  dishes  dine. 
[78] 


Peach  Meringue  Pie 

Line  a  tin  with  pie  crust,  prick  the  bottom  so  that 
it  may  not  rise  in  bubbles,  and  bake  five  minutes. 
Have  ready  enough  canned  peaches  to  fill  the  crust. 
Lay  them  in  place  with  a  little  of  the  syrup  and 
enough  sugar  to  sweeten ;  the  quantity  will  depend 
upon  the  fruit  itself.  Bake  until  the  crust  is  done, 
and  the  fruit  tender.  In  the  meantime  beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and 
when  the  pie  is  cooked,  pile  the  meringue  on  top 
of  the  fruit.  Return  to  a  cool  oven  to  cook  and 
delicately  color  the  meringue.  Serve  either  hot 
or  cold. 

Pineapple  Pie 

Cream  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
beaten  light,  four  slices  of  pineapple  chopped  fine, 
a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  milk,  and  the  beaten  whites 
of  three  eggs.  Bake  in  crust  for  half  an  hour, 
then  beat  separately  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
with  three  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  cover  the  pie  and 
put  it  back  in  the  oven  to  brown. 


Small  cheer  and  great  welcome,  makes  a  merry 
feast. 

— Shakespeare. 

[79] 


Pumpkin  Pie 


Cut  a  fair-sized  pumpkin  in  two,  and  remove  the 
seeds.  Bake  until  thoroughly  cooked,  remove 
from  the  rind,  and  put  the  pulp  through  a  colander. 
To  one  quart  of  pumpkin,  add  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spices,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  six  partly-beaten  eggs, 
and  a  pint  of  milk.  Line  a  deep  tin  with  pie 
crust,  pour  in  the  pumpkin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.     This  will  make  two  pies. 

Rhubarb  Pie 

If  the  rhubarb  is  very  young  it  need  not  be  peeled; 
otherwise  strip  off  the  outer  skin,  and  cut  the 
stalks  in  pieces  half  an  inch  long.  Line  a  pie 
dish  with  pie  crust,  fill  with  rhubarb,  and  sprinkle 
liberally  with  sugar,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt.  Shake 
over  a  little  flour.  Cover  with  leaf  paste,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


A  good  dinner  sharpens  the  wit,  while  it  soft- 
ens the  heart. 

[80] 


Washington  Pie 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  three  eggs  separately, 
cream  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  with  an  ounce 
of  butter,  and  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  sifted  flour, 
one  large  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Divide  the  batter  in 
half,  and  bake  in  two  pie  tins,  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  done  and  cool,  split  each  in  half  with  a 
hot  knife,  and  spread  with  the  following  cream : 

Filling:  Sift  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  cupful  of 
flour  together  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Add  two 
eggs,  and  beat  all  together.  Put  on  the  fire  a  pint 
of  milk,  add  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  add  the  mix- 
ture, and  stir  one  way  until  it  thickens. 


A  last  course  at  dinner  wanting  cheese,  is  like 
a  pretty  woman  with  only  one  eye. 

[811 


Cake 


The  odor  of  that  spicy  cake  came  hack 
upon  my  recollection. 

— Lamb  (Essays  of  Elia). 


[831 


Cakes 

Among  all  civilized  peoples  the  cake  is  an  institu- 
tion, a  symbol  of  birthdays,  marriages,  and  all 
the  joyful  events  of  life.  Pleasant  superstitions 
have  grown  around  it;  delightful  memories  afford 
it  surroundings  commensurate  with  its  intrinsic 
goodness.  From  childhood  to  old  age  it  shines, 
the  culminating  feature  of  gala  days  and  festal 
nights. 

Herein  are  collected  the  approved  recipes  of  older 
days,  and  the  last  word  of  our  modern  ingenuity 
and  taste.  Once  there  was  a  little  girl  who  bore 
as  a  painful  recollection  throughout  her  life  that 
she  had  had  but  six  of  the  seven  kinds  of  cake  a 
bountiful  hostess  once  provided  for  her.  Let  no 
such  shattered  hope  follow  the  reader  of  this  chap- 
ter. Were  there  a  hundred  kinds,  none  deserve 
neglect. 


[85] 


Cake-Making 


special  attention  must  be  paid  not  only  to  exact 
measurements,  but  also  to  correct  methods  of 
manipulation.  Use  none  but  the  best  materials. 
Flour,  sugar,  and  all  dry  Ingredients  must  be 
sifted  several  times  before  measuring.  Eggs  must 
be  well  beaten,  the  yolks  to  a  thick  cream,  and  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Eggs  beat  much  lighter 
and  quicker  when  very  cold.  Spices  should  be 
ground  to  the  finest  powder.  Fruits  should  be 
very  dry  or  the  cake  will  be  heavy. 

Cream  the  butter  with  the  hand  or  a  large  spoon, 
add  the  sugar,  and  cream  again  until  very  light. 
Put  in  the  yolks,  spices,  and  flavoring,  and  beat 
again.  Add  milk  and  flour  alternately  until  all 
are  used,  and  beat  vigorously  until  very  smooth. 
Last  add  the  fruit  and  the  beaten  whites. 

Loaf  cake  requires  less  heat  than  thin  cakes.  If 
the  oven  is  too  hot  at  first  or  if  suddenly  cooled 
while  the  cake  is  baking,  the  cake  will  be  soggy. 
If  cake  rises  and  cracks  in  the  centre,  too  much 
flour  has  been  used.  When  It  browns  before 
rising,  the  oven  is  too  hot.  Without  perfect  con- 
trol of  the  fire,  do  not  attempt  to  bake  cake. 


[86] 


Almond  Cake 

Rub  half  a  cupful  of  butter  and  two  cupfuls  of 
sugar  to  a  smooth  white  cream.  Add  four  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  beating  three  or  four  minutes 
between  each.  Sift  a  pint  of  flour  and  one  and 
a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  together, 
add  to  the  mixture  with  half  a  cupful  of  blanched 
almonds,  a  glass  of  brandy  and  half  a  cupful  of 
milk.  Mix  into  a  smooth  batter,  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Almond  Cake  a  la  Russe 

A  pound  of  ground  almonds,  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  sugar,  six  whole  eggs,  a  dash  of  vanilla,  a  little 
rum,  and  six  whites  of  eggs  whipped  very  stiff. 
Mix,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Put  white 
icing  on  top  and  pistachio  nuts  around. 


Custards  for  supper,  and  an  endless  host  of 
syllabubs  and  jellies  and  mince  pies  and  other  suck 
lady-like  luxuries. 

— Shelley. 
187] 


Angel  Cake 


Take  three  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  flour,  half  a 
cupful  of  cornstarch,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vanilla  sugar.  Sift 
several  times.  Whip  three  pints  of  whites  of  eggs, 
adding  by  pinches,  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sugar  until  stiff  and  smooth.  Success  depends 
upon  the  firm  body  and  fine  grain  of  this  egg 
froth.  Stir  all  gently  and  smoothly  together;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  vanilla,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  extract.  Half  fill  three  moulds,  not 
buttered,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Take  them  out  of  the  oven,  turn  bot- 
tom up,  and  let  stand  on  the  horns  of  the  pans 
until  cold.  This  quantity  can  be  reduced  for  a 
single  cake. 

Angel  Food 

Sift  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  five  or  six  times. 
Beat  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
ten  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  mix  carefully- 
Add  the  flour,  gradually  stirring  all  the  while,  and, 
last,  the  flavoring.  Turn  quickly  into  an  un- 
greased  pan  three-quarters  full,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  —  260°F. —  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Take  from  oven,  turn  pan  upside  down  on  a  rest, 
and  let  it  stand  until  the  cake  falls  out.  Coat 
with  white  icing. 

Lo,  a  cakel 

— Judges. 

[881 


Banana  Cake 

Cream  together  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  two  cup- 
fuls  of  white  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add 
gradually  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  four  cupfuls  of 
flour.  Stir  until  smooth,  then  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well-beaten. 
Bake  in  layers. 

Filling:  Peel  three  large  ripe  bananas  and  slice 
them  lengthwise.  Add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  mix  well  together.  Dissolve  in 
a  saucepan  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  a  third  of  a  cup-, 
ful  of  water.  Boil  until  the  syrup  candies.  Add 
the  banana  and  egg  mixture  a  spoonful  at  a  time. 
Cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  until  cold.  Spread  on  layers 
which  must  also  be  cool.  This  is  better  than 
other  ways  of  making  banana  cake,  as  the  filling 
will  not  soak  into  the  cake. 


Because  you  are  virtuous  shall  there  he  no  more 
cakes  and  ale} 

— Shakespeare. 

[891 


Bride's  Cake 

Two  pounds  of  currants,  and  half  a  pound  each  of 
candied  orange  peel,  citron  and  lemon,  sliced  thin. 
Blanch  and  bruise  a  pound  of  almonds,  and  grind 
a  tablespoonful  each  of  mace,  cinnamon,  cloves, 
and  nutmegs  to  a  powder.  Whip  four  pounds  of 
butter  to  a  cream.  Beat  separately  the  whites 
and  yolks  of  twenty  eggs  —  the  whites  should  be 
frothed.  Take  two  pounds  of  sifted  sugar,  and 
half  a  pint  of  brandy,  the  same  of  sherry,  and 
four  pounds  of  pastry  flour  sifted  several  times. 
Put  the  creamed  butter  into  a  large  basin  and  by 
degrees  mix  in  the  sugar,  stirring  it  constantly. 
Next  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  all 
together  with  the  yolks;  then  add  the  almonds, 
spices,  and,  very  gradually,  the  flour,  until  all  are 
thoroughly  blended.  Beat  well,  and  add  the  cur- 
rants, sprinkling  them  in  gradually  so  as  to  dis- 
tribute them  equally,  and  finish  by  making  all 
smooth  with  the  brandy  and  sherry.  Keep  up 
the  beating  until  all  is  ready  for  baking.  A 
double  paper,  well  buttered,  must  be  put  as  a  lining 
to  the  baking  pan,  and  the  mixture  should  not  fill 
the  pan  more  than  three-quarters  full,  that  it  may 
have  room  to  expand.  Put  a  paper  over  the  top  and 
bake  the  cake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  When 
done,  cover  it  with  almond  paste  three-quarters 
of  an  inch  in  thickness. 

Almond  Paste:  Blanch  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds 
and  a  dozen  bitter  almonds.     Pound  them  in  a 

Please  not  a  seed-cake,  but  a  plum-cake. 

— Thackeray. 
190] 


mortar  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  drop  in  once  or 
twice  during  the  process  a  Httle  orange-flower 
water;  add  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar  and  as  much 
white  of  egg  as  will  make  a  soft  stiff  paste.  When 
all  are  well  mixed  together  lay  the  paste  on  top 
of  the  cake  already  baked,  a  little  more  than  half 
an  inch  thick,  as  smoothly  and  evenly  as  possible. 
Put  it  in  a  cool  place  to  dry.  Then  put  sugar 
icing  over  this. 

Sugar  Icing:  Two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar  and 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  —  not  beaten.  Beat  well 
together.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  a  few 
drops  at  a  time.  When  a  smooth  paste  is  pro- 
duced the  icing  is  ready.  It  should  be  spread 
evenly  over  the  cake  (which  has  been  already 
baked  and  allowed  to  cool)  with  hands  wet  with 
cold  water.    It  may  be  colored  if  liked. 

If  it  is  wished  to  ornament  the  cake  with  an  ice 
beading,  put  a  little  of  the  icing  into  a  sugar  bag. 
Squeeze  so  the  sugar  will  come  out  through  the 
hole  at  the  bottom  in  a  thin  stream  and  with  this 
form  any  suitable  devices  on  the  cake.  It  may  be 
ornamented  in  various  ways,  and,  if  one  possesses 
originality,  one  can  allow  one's  fancy  full  sway  and 
there  is  hardly  a  limit  to  the  variety  of  decorations 
that  can  be  produced. 


Bad  cooking  diminishes  happiness  and  shortens  life, 
[91] 


Caramel  Cake 

Beat  half  a  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream,  adding 
gradually  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  and  a  cupful  of  water.  Add  two  cupfuls 
of  flour  sifted  three  times,  and  beat  for  five  minutes. 
Add  three  teaspoonfuls  of  caramel  syrup,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  and  another  half  cupful  of 
flour.  Beat  again  thoroughly,  and  stir  in  care- 
fully two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Bake  in  three 
layers  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Caramel  Filling:  Boil  a  cupful  of  granulated 
sugar,  and  a  cupful  of  water  until  it  will  form  a 
soft  ball  in  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Pour  this  on  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  caramel  syrup,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Beat  until  cool. 

Caramel  Syrup:  Set  a  cupful  of  sugar  in  an  iron 
or  granite  pan,  stir  until  sugar  first  softens,  then 
melts,  and  finally  becomes  a  liquid  and  throws  off 
intense  smoke.  It  really  must  burn.  Have  ready 
half  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Remove  the  pan 
from  the  fire,  add  the  hot  water,  stir  rapidly,  and 
boil  until  you  have  syrup.  This  is  enough  for 
three  or  four  cakes. 


Wouldst  thou  both  eat  thy  cake  and  have  it? 

— Herbert 

[92] 


Chocolate  Cake 

Cream  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  melted  butter,  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs  together, 
than  add  a  cupful  of  flour  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  ground  almonds.  Beat  together  two  ounces  of 
grated  chocolate  with  whites  of  seven  eggs,  stir  in 
the  above  mixture  and  mix  all  well.  When  baked, 
ice  on  top  with  chocolate  icing  and  granulated 
chocolate  around. 

Chocolate  Nougat  Cake 

Cream  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  and  add 
two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  and  two  eggs 
well-beaten.  Mix  well,  and  add  three-quarters 
of  a  cupful  of  sour  milk.  Sift  two  cupfuls  of  flour 
with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  cupful  of  blanched  almonds.  Mix,  and 
add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cook  together 
until  smooth,  three  squares  of  chocolate,  a  third 
of  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar.  Cool  slightly,  and  add  to  the  cake  mixture. 
Bake  in  two  layers,  and  put  White  Mountain  cream 
sprinkled  with  a  few  chopped  almonds  between  the 
layers  and  on  top. 


What  is  eaten  with  distaste  is  not  assimilated. 
[93] 


White  Mountain  Cream:  Put  a  cupful  of  sugar 
and  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan. 
Beat  gradually,  and  boil  until  the  syrup  will  thread 
when  dropped  from  the  spoon.  Pour  syrup  gradu- 
ally on  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  beating  the 
mixture  constantly,  and  continue  beating  until 
of  the  right  consistency  to  spread.  Add  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

Cocoanut  Cake 

Three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  powdered  sugar,  one 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  grated 
cocoa,  a  pint  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  baking 
powder,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Bake  in  shallow  greased  pans,  put  together  with 
white  icing,  and  scatter  cocoanut  on  top. 

Cream  Cake 

Beat  three  eggs  separately,  add  a  scant  cupful  of 
sugar,  a  cupful  of  flour,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  water. 

Filling:  Two  cupfuls  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of 
cornstarch,  one  egg  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  half 
a  cupful  of  sugar.  Boil  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick.  Each  layer  is  to  be  split  and  the  filling  put 
between  while  hot. 


Preserve  and  treat  food  as  you  would  your  body, 
remembering  that  in  time  it  will  be  your  body. 

[94] 


DeviVs  Food  Cake 

Two  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  sifted  flour,  two  cupfuls 
of  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of 
sour  milk,  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water,  two  eggs, 
half  a  cake  of  chocolate,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  hot  water.  Mix 
in  the  usual  way,  bake  well,  and  when  cold  ice 
with  chocolate  icing. 

Feather  Cake 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Beat  the 
yolks  to  a  cream,  and  add  two  teacupfuls  of 
sugar,  and  beat  again  from  five  to  ten  minutes, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or  water,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  flavoring.  Add  part  of  the  beaten 
whites.  Sift  two  cupfuls  of  flour  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  together  several 
times.  Stir  gradually  into  the  mixture,  enough  to 
mix  well.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  whites  of  eggs, 
and  bake  in  three  layers,  filling  the  tins  two- 
thirds  full. 

Filling:  Sift  half  a  cupful  of  flour,  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  together.  Add  two  eggs 
slightly  beaten,  and  gradually  pour  on  two  cup- 
fuls of  scalded  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for 
fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  thick- 
ened, and  flavor  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
extract. 


Know  how  to  do  a  thing  well  yourself,  and  you 
will  get  it  well  done  by  others. 

[95] 


Federal  Cake 

Cream  together  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  stir  in  four  eggs,  and  mix  well.  Add  a 
teacupful  of  new  milk,  a  pound  of  flour,  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  raisins  dredged  with  flour,  half  a 
pound  of  chopped  citron,  one  grated  nutmeg,  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
hot  water,  and  a  wineglassful  each  of  wine  and 
brandy.  Beat  vigorously  for  fifteen  minutes,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  dough  will  not 
stick  to  a  straw. 

Fruit  Cake 

Cream  together  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  scant 
pound  of  butter,  add  a  cupful  of  molasses,  a  cup- 
ful and  a  half  of  sour  milk,  and  twelve  well-beaten 
eggs.  Pour  in  a  cupful  of  rich  boiled  cider.  Sift 
together  a  pound  of  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  and  a 
half  of  soda;  stir  in,  beating  briskly  for  ten  minutes 
with  a  flat  spoon  or  heavy  wire  egg  beater.  Add 
three  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants, 
half  a  pound  of  chopped  walnuts,  half  a  pound  of 
candied  orange  peel,  half  a  pound  of  chopped 
citron,  two  grated  nutmegs  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
each  of  cloves  and  allspice.  Stir  all  together  well, 
and  bake  for  four  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 


The  odor  of  that  spicy  cake  came  hack  upon  my 
recollection. 

— Charles  Lamb. 

196] 


Gimes 

Four  cupfuls  of  flour  worked  with  four  eggs,  a 
little  salt  mixed  into  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  butter, 
and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Add  an  ounce 
of  yeast  dissolved  with  warm  milk,  and  let  rise. 
Roll  it  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  in 
squares,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  firm  jelly  in  the 
corner,  and  roll  over  and  over,  stretching  a  little 
and  curving  like  a  Vienna  roll.  When  very  light, 
glaze,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

Golden  Cake 

Cream  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  add  half  a 
cupful  of  sugar  gradually,  and  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  Add  a 
teaspoonful  of  orange  extract.  Mix,  and  sift  a 
scant  cupful  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  and  a  half 
of  baking  powder;  add  this  alternately  with  a 
quarter  of  a  cupful  of  milk  to  the  first  mixture. 
Stir  until  smooth,  and  bake  in  one  loaf. 


Sir,  you  are  very  welcome  to  our  house 
It  must  appear  in  other  ways  than  words. 
Therefore  I  scant  this  breathing  courtesy. 

— Shakespeare. 

[97] 


Grand  Duke  Cake 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  a  cupful  of  butter,  a  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten, 
three  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake  in 
three  layers. 

Filling:  A  cupful  of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of 
water,  cooked  until  the  syrup  threads.  Stir  in  the 
white  of  a  well-beaten  egg,  add  half  a  pound  of 
chopped  blanched  almonds,  half  a  pound  of 
raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  and  half  a  pound 
of  chopped  figs.    Ice  the  top  with  white  icing. 

Icing:  A  cupful  of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of 
water  cooked  until  the  syrup  threads.  Stir  in 
the  white  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  and  a  small  pinch 
of  cream  tartar. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake 

Beat  half  a  cupful  of  butter  and  a  cupful  and  a 
half  of  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  three-quarters  of  a 
cupful  of  water,  and  two  cupfuls  of  well-sifted 
flour.  Stir  until  smooth.  Add  half  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  a  cupful  of  hickory- 
nut  kernels,  then  the  rest  of  the  whites,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Pour  to  a  depth 
of  three  inches  into  square  flat  pans  lined  with 
buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  forty-five  minutes.  Fill  with  pastry  cream  to 
which  a  few  chopped  nuts  have  been  added. 

A  good  dinner  is  brother  to  the  good  poem. 
[981 


Jelly  Roll 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  mix  with  the 
yolks.  Sift  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der into  one  cupful  of  flour,  and  stir  into  the  mix- 
ture. Flavor  with  vanilla.  Line  a  shallow  pan 
with  greased  paper,  pour  the  batter  in  evenly,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  twelve  minutes.  While 
hot  lay  on  a  damp  cloth,  spread  with  jelly  or  jam, 
and  roll  up  quickly. 

Kugelhopf  {coffee  cake) 

Four  cupfuls  of  flour  worked  with  four  eggs,  and 
a  little  salt,  mixed  into  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  but- 
ter, and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  An  ounce 
of  yeast  dissolved  with  warm  milk,  and  a  teacup- 
ful  of  seeded  raisins  are  then  included.  Powder 
the  mould  with  sliced  almonds,  fill  a  quarter  full, 
and  let  it  stand  until  full.    Bake  in  hot  oven. 


Every  man  shall  eat  in  safety  under  his  own 
vine,  where  he  plants. 

[99] 


Layer  Cake 

Beat  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  a  cupful  of  butter 
until  very  light.  Mix  in  three  eggs,  then  half  a 
pint  of  milk.  Sift  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  in  four  cupfuls  of  flour  and  mix  all  together. 
This  will  make  two  cakes  of  three  layers  each. 

Filling:  A  cupful  of  rich  sour  milk,  two  cupfuls  of 
powdered  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  raisins  seeded  and 
chopped.  Mix  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  half  a 
cupful  of  chopped  walnuts. 

Three  cupfuls  of  pastry  cream  and  a  small  cupful 
of  chopped  walnuts  also  makes  a  good  filling. 


Leopard  Cake 


Light  Part:  A  cupful  and  a  half  of  white  sugar, 
half  a  cupful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  sweet  milk, 
two  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  flour,  the  whites  of  four 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and 
lemon  flavoring. 

Dark  Part:  One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup- 
ful of  molasses,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  half  a 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  cup- 
fuls and  a  half  of  flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder;  flavor  with  spices.  Mix  the  two 
batters  lightly  together,  and  bake. 


Let  hunger  move  thy  appetite  and  not  savory 
sauces. 

[100] 


Linzer  Cake 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  cupfuls  of  butter,  an 
egg,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  little  cinnamon,  mace, 
nutmeg,  and  milk.  Mix  well.  Roll  out  in  rounds, 
put  raspberry  jam  on  top,  and  cover  with  strips 
of  the  same  dough.  Bake.  These  are  better  when 
three  or  four  days  old. 

Mazarin  au  Kirsch 

Cream  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  add  eight  eggs  and  a  pound  of  flour. 
Dissolve  a  cake  of  3^east  in  a  little  warm  milk, 
and  put  it  in  the  mixture.  Pour  into  a  Savarin 
mould  and  let  it  stand  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
When  baked,  cut  half  open  and  fill  with  whipped 
cream  flavored  with  orange. 

Mock  Angel  Cake 

Set  a  cupful  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
and  heat  to  a  boiling  point.  Into  a  sifter  put  a 
cupful  of  flour,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  three  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  all 
sifted  together  four  times.  Pour  the  cupful  of 
hot  milk  onto  the  flour  and  stir  until  smooth. 
Fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs, — do 
not  stir  or  beat  them  in.  Do  not  grease  the  tins 
or  flavor  the  cake.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    Ice 

We  live  not  upon  what  we  eat,  but  upon  what  we 
digest. 

[101] 


with  water  icing  made  by  sifting  one  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  adding  water  and  flavoring 
until  it  will  spread. 

Mousse  F Orange 

Stir  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  the  yolks  of  twelve 
eggs,  a  cupful  of  flour  and  as  much  cornstarch, 
ten  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  the  grated 
rind  of  an  orange,  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
twelve  eggs.  Add  a  little  red  coloring  before  bak- 
ing. When  done,  split  the  cake  with  a  hot  knife, 
put  some  pastry  cream  with  orange  flavor  between, 
glaze  on  top  with  orange  icing,  and  decorate  with 
candied  orange. 

Nut  Cake 

Cream  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter,  add  three  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Sift  together  three 
cupfuls  of  flour  and  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder.  Add  to  the  mixture,  and  bake  in 
layers. 

Filling:  Mix  a  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  and  a 
cupful  of  English  walnut  meats  chopped  fine. 
Add  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  cupful  of 
sherry,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  After  spreading  this  mix- 
ture on  the  cake,  sift  over  it  a  little  sugar,  add  a 
layer  of  cake,  and  so  on  until  all  is  used.  Use  the 
whites  of  the  two  eggs  for  icing,  and  ornament 
with  walnut  meats.    This  is  delicious. 

//  you  have  dined  with  contentment,  you  have 
dined  as  well  as  the  Lord  Mayor  of  London. 

[102] 


Pineapple  Cake 


Beat  together  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  and 
half  a  cupful  of  butter.  When  creamy  add  a  cup- 
ful of  milk,  and  two  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  flour  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  thoroughly  sifted 
together,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Flavor  with 
a  few  drops  of  almond  or  vanilla.  Last,  beat  in 
lightly  the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  whipped,  and 
bake  in  one  loaf.    Do  not  ice  until  the  cake  is  cold. 

For  icing  soak  a  third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  little 
water  until  dissolved.  In  a  separate  bowl  whip 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  adding  to  them  when  stiff, 
half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  the  dissolved  gelatine,  and 
two  cupfuls  of  grated  pineapple.  Stand  in  a  cool 
place  half  a  day  before  serving. 

Pound  Cake 

Cream  four  cupfuls  of  butter  and  four  cupfuls  of 
sugar.  Mix  well  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  twelve 
eggs,  add  one  grated  nutmeg,  a  small  glass  of 
brandy  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mace.  Stir  in 
four  cupfuls  of  well-sifted  flour,  and  beat  vigor- 
ously for  five  minutes.  Last  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  a  deep  pan  for  an 
hour  and  a  quarter  in  a  slow  oven.  Ornament  if 
desired. 


The  ornaments  of  a  house  are  the  friends  that 
frequent  it. 

[103] 


Silver  Loaf  Cake 

Cream  a  cupful  and  a  quarter  of  granulated  sugar, 
and  half  a  cupful  of  butter  until  it  is  as  smooth 
and  white  as  ice  cream.  Measure  out  two  and  a 
half  cupfuls  of  flour,  put  in  half  a  tcaspoonful  of 
soda  and  sift  ten  times.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar  in  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  beat 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  the  sugar,  butter,  and  flour 
with  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  last  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Put  in  well  buttered  loaf  tins,  in  a  cool 
oven,  heating  the  oven  gradually.  Use  white 
icing. 


Spice  Cake 


Half  a  cupful  of  chopped  figs,  and  a  cupful  of 
seeded  raisins.  Pour  over  these  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water  in  which  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been 
dissolved.  Stir,  and  let  cool.  Add  a  cupful  of 
granulated  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  a  cupful 
and  a  half  of  flour,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  until  light 
and  white,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  allspice,  as  much  of  cloves,  a  tea- 
spoonful and  a  half  of  nutmeg,  and  half  a  cupful 
of  chopped  walnut  meats.  Mix  all  except  flour 
and  fruit,  which  are  to  be  added  last.  Bake  as  a 
solid  cake. 

But  though  so  much  of  learning  had  been  crammed 

into  her  head, 
She  couldn't,  for  the  life  of  her,  compound  a  loaf  of 

bread. 

[104] 


Sponge  Cake 


Six  eggs,  their  weight  in  sugar,  and  half  their 
weight  in  flour.  Break  and  separate  the  eggs  care- 
fully, beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  until  very  light, 
then  add  the  whites  which  have  been  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Mix  carefully,  and  slowly  sift  in  the 
flour.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
soda  into  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar;  stir  until 
dissolved,  and  add  quickly  to  the  cake.  Mix 
thoroughly,  carefully  turn  into  a  well-greased 
large  shallow  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes. 

Filling:  Put  half  a  pint  of  milk  to  boil  in  a  double 
boiler.  Beat  half  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  together  until  light,  then  stir  into  the  boiling 
milk  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  fire,  add  the 
juice  and  the  rind  of  half  an  orange.  Stand  away 
to  cool.  This  should  be  made  before  the  cake. 
When  the  cake  is  done  turn  it  carefully  from  the 
pan  bottom  side  up,  and  spread  it  while  warm 
with  the  filling.  Cut  the  cake  in  halves  and  fold 
the  bottoms  together  thus  having  two  layers  of 
cake  with  a  thick  layer  of  filling  between.  Cover 
the  top  with  orange  icing. 

Orange  Icing:  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange 
juice,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  brandy.    Add  the  grated  rind  of  an 

My  lord,  will  you  walk?     Dinner  is  ready. 

— Shakespeare. 

[105] 


orange  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour.  Strain,  and 
add  gradually  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Stir  in 
icing  sugar  until  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Sponge  Cake  No.  2 

Weigh  any  number  of  eggs  in  their  shells  —  four 
will  make  a  good  sized  cake  —  take  their  weight 
in  granulated  sugar,  and  half  their  weight  in  flour, 
with  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Beat 
the  yolks  until  light  in  color  and  thick  as  cream, 
then  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  the  mixture  again 
until  light.  The  lemon  juice  and  rind  should  be 
added,  then  the  flour,  which  must  be  sifted  until 
light  and  full  of  air.  The  whipped  whites  should 
be  folded  in  with  great  care. 

Sunshine  Cake 

Beat  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs  until  stiff,  stir  in  a 
cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  beat  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs  very  light,  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  orange 
extract,  and  add  another  half  cupful  of  sifted 
granulated  sugar.  Put  the  yolks  and  whites 
together,  and  fold  in  a  cupful  of  flour,  in  which  a 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  has  been  sifted. 
Mix  as  quickly  as  possible.  Bake  from  fifty  to 
sixty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 


We  grow  like  what  we  eat.     Bad  food  depresses; 
good  food  exalts  us  like  an  inspiration. 

[106] 


Strawberry  Short-Cake 
(home-made) 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  large  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of 
cornstarch,  an  egg,  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  milk, 
and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Sift  the  dry- 
ingredients  together.  Beat  the  egg,  and  add  it  to 
the  milk.  Mix  all  to  a  thick  batter,  and  bake  in 
a  well-buttered  pan.  When  done,  split  with  a 
very  hot  knife,  butter  each  half  slightly,  and  put 
between  the  slices  the  berries,  which  have  been 
hulled,  washed,  sliced,  covered  with  sugar  and 
allowed  to  stand  for  half  an  hour.  This  cake  may 
be  covered  with  whipped  cream,  or  it  may  be 
served  with  plain  cream;  but  the  best  way  is  to 
serve  it  with  the  berry  juice  without  cream.  If 
baked  in  individual  drops,  they  can  be  pulled 
apart  instead  of  cutting  with  hot  knife,  although 
the  hot  knife  does  not  injure  the  cake. 


Courage,  cheerfulness  and  a  desire  to  work,  de- 
pend mostly  on  good  nutrition.  Whenever  the 
dinner  is  ill  got  up  there  is  either  poverty,  or  there 
is  avarice,  or  there  is  stupidity;  in  short,  the  fam- 
ily is  somehow  grossly  wrong. 

Dr.  Johnson. 

[1071 


Streussel  Cake 

Four  cupfuls  of  flour,  six  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  but- 
ter, a  little  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  half 
an  ounce  of  yeast,  worked  together.  Let  the  dough 
raise  for  two  hours,  then  roll  it  out  about  half  an 
inch  thick  and  let  it  stand  for  half  an  hour. 

Streussel:  Melt  two  cupfuls  of  butter.  Mix  two 
cupfuls  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon  together, 
rub  it  through  a  collander,  and  put  it  over  the 
cake.  Bake  slowly.  When  baked,  powder  with 
fine  sugar. 

Velvet  Cake 

Cream  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  add  a  cupful  and  a 
half  of  sugar  gradually,  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  and  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  Mix 
together  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  flour,  half  a  cupful 
of  cornstarch,  and  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Sift  several  times  and  add  to  the  first 
mixture.  Then  add  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten 
very  stiff.  After  putting  in  pan  cover  with 
almonds  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. 


The  chief  pleasure  in  eating  does  not  consist 
of  costly  seasoning  or  exquisite  flavor,  but  in  your- 
self.    Do  you  seek  sauce  by  sweating? 

— Horace. 

[108] 


Viennoise 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  ten  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
a  cupful  and  three-quarters  of  butter,  and  a  dash 
of  vanilla.  Mix  to  a  dough,  roll  out  thin,  divide 
in  three  parts,  and  bake  slowly.  When  baked, 
put  currant  jelly  on  one  part,  and  apricot  jelly  au 
kirsch  on  the  other.  Put  them  together.  On  top 
make  a  design  in  apricot  and  currant  jelly,  and 
pour  chopped  pistachio  over. 

Walnut  Cake 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  cupful  of  white  sugar, 
two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  a  cupful  and  a 
half  of  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  five 
layers. 

Filling:  Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  rolled  walnut 
meats,  half  a  cupful  of  white  sugar,  to  two-thirds 
of  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream.  Mix  and  spread  be- 
tween the  layers. 


Animals  feed;   man  eats;   the  intelligent  man 
alone  knows  how  to  eat. 

— B  RILLAT-S  AV  ARIN. 

[1091 


Wedding  Cake 


Cream  four  cupfuls  of  butter  with  five  cupfuls  of 
sugar,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  twelve  eggs, 
beat  until  very  light,  and  stir  in  the  whites 
whipped  stiff.  Mix  in  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  add  a 
pound  of  citron,  half  a  pound  each  of  lemon  and 
orange  peel,  two  pounds  of  currants,  six  pounds 
of  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mace, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful 
of  ginger,  one  tablCspoonful  of  allspice,  a  dessert 
spoon  of  cloves,  a  cupful  of  molasses,  and  a  pint 
of  brandy.  Beat  well,  and  bake  slowly  until  a 
straw  will  come  out  clean.  This  is  a  delicious 
cake,  and  will  keep  indefinitely. 

White  Cake 

Cream  three  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  a  cupful  of 
butter.  Add  a  cupful  of  cornstarch,  one  cupful  of 
milk,  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  and  three  cupfuls 
of  flour.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  four  layers. 
Make  an  icing  for  the  filling  using  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  two  cups  of 
icing  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Spread 
thick  between  each  layer  and  ice  all  over  the  top 
and  sides. 


Dream  on  •wedding  cake:     T^ivill  come  true. 
When  He  shall  dream  of  You, 
Or  you  of  Him,  heHl  come  to  woo. 

— Olfver  Marble. 

[110] 


Puddings 


I  have  sat  in  the  stocks  for  puddings 
he  hath  stolen. 

— William  Shakespeare. 


[Ill] 


Puddings 


England,  the  mother  country,  is  parent  too  of 
puddings,  their  authentic  history  running  back 
through  seven  centuries  or  more.  Like  her  pos- 
sessions, she  has  girdled  the  globe  with  them,  and 
made  them  the  inevitable  accompaniment  of 
several  of  our  greatest  festivals.  Christmas  with- 
out its  plum  pudding  is  fairly  unimaginable! 

But  it  is  not  to  the  heavier  puddings,  toothsome 
as  they  are,  that  attention  is  alone  invited.  For 
children,  tired  professional  men,  and  peoples  of 
sedentary  lives,  there  is  no  dessert  so  practical  as 
the  fluffy,  airy  puddings,  made  apparently  of 
nothing,  yet  possessing  the  most  nourishing  of  food 
elements.  They  are  at  once  inviting,  inexpensive, 
easily  made,  and  appropriate  on  all  occasions. 


[113] 


Angers  Delight 


This  is  an  imitation  of  brick  ice  cream,  and  for 
the  hostess  who  desires  something  dehcate  and  in- 
expensive in  the  way  of  dessert,  this  recipe  is 
highly  recommended.  Moisten  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  gelatine  with  a  little  water.  When  dis- 
solved add  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Let  the  mixture  come 
to  a  boil,  and  beat  in  the  whites  of  six  eggs, 
whipped  to  a  froth.  Beat  until  partially  cool  and 
stiff,  and  divide  into  three  portions.  Flavor  the 
first  portion  with  vanilla  and  spread  in  a  layer 
mould,  sprinkling  the  top  with  chopped  nuts. 
Color  the  second  portion  with  fruit  or  vegetable 
coloring,  flavor  with  strawberry  or  lemon  and 
spread  over  the  first,  sprinkling  again  with  nuts. 
Flavor  the  third  portion  with  vanilla  and  spread 
it  over  the  second.  Set  on  ice  until  firm,  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 


Your  dressing,  dancing,  gadding,  where 's  the  good 

in? 
Sweet  lady,  tell  me,  can  you  make  a  pudding? 

[114] 


Apple  Custard 


Use  mellow  apples  of  medium  size.  Pare,  core, 
and  bake  until  tender  in  a  slow  oven.  Press 
through  a  sieve.  To  each  cupful  of  apple  pulp  add 
half  a  cupful  of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  two  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  While  the  apple  pulp  is  still  hot, 
blend  into  it  the  butter.  Heat  the  sugar  until  it 
is  a  syrup,  and  add  first  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then 
the  cream,  and  beat  all  vigorously.  Pour  into 
buttered  cups,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven  and 
quickly  pour  over  it  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown.  Set  in  ice  box 
to  chill,  and  serve  with  cream. 


Tell  me  what  you  eat  and  I'll  tell  you  what  you 
are. 

[115] 


Cherry  Pudding 


This  old  southern  pudding  of  sour  cherries  and 
cornmeal  batter,  boiled  in  a  bag,  is  unsurpassed, 
either  north  or  south.  Make  a  good  cornmeal 
batter,  as  for  Johnny  cake,  with  a  cupful  of  fine 
cornmeal,  half  a  cupful  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  an  e%g,  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  enough  sweet 
milk  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter,  as  the  juice  from 
the  cherries  will  thin  it  while  cooking.  Stir  in  all 
the  rich,  ripe,  sour  cherries  that  the  batter  can  be 
made  to  hold,  allowing  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  to 
each  cupful  of  cherries.  The  pudding  should  be 
so  full  of  cherries  that  the  batter  simply  holds 
them  together. 

Place  in  a  long  pudding  bag,  drop  into  a  pot  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  steadily  until  the  pudding 
is  done.  Rip  the  bag  open  at  the  end  and  down 
one  side,  roll  out  the  firm,  whole  pudding,  cut 
into  thick  juicy  slices  and  serve  hot  with  vanilla 
sauce,  with  butter  and  sugar  creamed  together, 
or  with  any  rich  pudding  sauce. 


To  be  equal  physically  and  mentally  to  our 
day's  work  depends  upon  the  food  we  eat. 

[116] 


Chocolate  Marshmallow  Pudding 

Soak  a  pint  of  soft  bread-crumbs  into  a  quart  of 
new  milk,  add  a  well-beaten  egg,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cocoa,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Pour  into  individual  earthen  pudding  dishes  and 
bake  for  forty  minutes.  Have  ready  a  pint  of 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored,  fold  in 
half  a  pound  of  marshmallows  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  heap  on  the  pudding.  Garnish  each  with  a 
whole  marshmallow  and  serve  immediately. 

Delicate  Pudding 

A  cupful  and  a  half  of  water,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  well  mixed  and  brought 
to  the  boiling  point.  Wet  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  water,  stir  into  the  boil- 
ing syrup,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Beat  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  whip  the  boil- 
ing mixture  into  them ;  return  to  the  fire  one  min- 
ute to  set  the  egg,  add  half  a  cupful  of  lemon  juice 
and  a  little  of  the  grated  rind.  Turn  at  once  into 
a  border  mould  that  has  been  dipped  in  cold  water 
and  set  away  to  become  ice  cold.  Serve  with 
strawberries  piled  high  in  the  centre  or  pour  a 
soft  custard  around  as  a  sauce. 


And  lo!  two  puddings  smoked  upon  the  board. 

— Pope. 

[117] 


Devonshire  Pudding 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  until  very  light  and 
creamy,  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of,  sugar  and  beat 
again.  Mix  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  with 
enough  milk  to  dissolve  it.  Add  the  juice  from  a 
can  of  peaches.  Mix,  and  stir  into  a  quart  of  milk 
just  before  it  boils.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir 
until  it  has  thickened.  Pour  into  a  baking  dish 
and  place  it  in  the  oven  until  it  will  bear  icing. 
Place  over  the  top  a  layer  of  the  canned  peaches. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar  to  one  egg.  Pour 
over  the  pudding,  and  place  in  oven  until  it  is  la. 
light  brown. 

Fig  Pudding 

This  pudding  is  quite  as  good  as  plum  pudding, 
but  not  as  rich.  Chop  fine  a  pound  of  figs;  add  a 
cupful  of  chopped  suet,  two  cupfuls  of  bread- 
crumbs, three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  citron  cut  small,  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  soda  and 
salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Put  into  a 
mould  and  steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce.  Instead  of  creaming  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether for  the  hard  sauce,  stir  into  it  a  cup  of 
stiff  whipped  cream  and  the  white  of  one  egg 
beaten    until    light.      It    is    delicious,    and    goes 

further. 

Hunger  is  the  best  seasoning  for  meat,  and 
thirst  for  drink. 

— Cicero. 

1118] 


Fig  Tapioca 


Soak  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  tapioca  over  night 
in  three  cupfuls  of  cold  water.  Add  a  cupful  and 
a  half  of  light  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful 
of  diced  figs,  and  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  chopped 
English  walnut  meats.  Steam  for  one  hour  in  a 
double  boiler.  Stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  vanilla 
extract  and  turn  into  the  serving  dish.  Chill,  and 
serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


Fruit  Pudding 


Half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  half  a  pound  of  suet, 
free  from  strings  and  chopped  fine,  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  a  pound 
of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  a  pound  of  currants, 
half  a  pound  of  dried  pears  and  half  a  pound  of 
dried  peaches  chopped,  two  ounces  of  citron  cut 
fine,  half  a  dozen  eggs  with  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately,  a  pint  of  milk,  a  cupful  of 
brandy,  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  and  a  grated 
nutmeg.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beat  in 
the  yolks,  when  whipped  smooth  and  light,  then 
put  in  the  milk,  then  the  flour  alternating  with 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  then  the  brandy 
and  spices,  and  the  fruit  well  dredged  with  flour. 
Mix  all  well,  put  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  steam 
from  four  to  five  hours. 


A  dinner  lubricates  business. 

— Lord  Stowell. 


[1191 


Rich  Brandy  Sauce:  A  cupful  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  cupful  of 
brandy.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the 
sugar  gradually,  and,  when  very  light,  add  the 
brandy,  which  has  been  made  hot.  Place  the 
bowl  in  a  basin  of  hot  water,  and  stir  for  two 
minutes.    The  sauce  should  be  smooth  and  foamy. 

Hard  Sauce:  A  cupful  of  icing  sugar,  and  a  half 
cupful  of  butter  beaten  until  very  light.  Flavor 
by  beating  wine  into  it  or  grating  nutmeg  over  it. 

Marshmallow  Souffle 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  stiff,  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  gelatine  that  has  been  dissolved  in  a  quarter  of 
a  cupful  of  warm  milk.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Color 
half  of  this  green.  Butter  a  dish  slightly  and  place 
the  colors  in  alternate  layers.  When  congealed 
turn  this  on  a  plate,  sprinkle  with  a  few  nuts, 
slice  as  you  would  cake,  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 


The  palate  is  the  janitor;  unless  he  be  recon- 
ciled the  most  nutritious  food  will  find  no  welcome, 

[120] 


Neapolitan  Blanc-Mange 

Make  a  cornstarch  blanc-mange,  and  separate  into 
four  parts;  put  the  white  into  the  bottom  of  the 
mould,  stir  into  one  part  while  warm,  one  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  grated  chocolate,  and  pour  into 
the  same  mould  on  top  of  the  white;  color  the  next 
part  with  a  half  teaspoonful  of  fruit  coloring,  and 
pour  on  top  of  the  chocolate;  color  the  last  part 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  pour  all  into  the 
mould.  Let  each  part  get  stiff  first,  before  put- 
ting the  other  over.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Noodle  Custard 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  dry  noodles  in  salt  water  for 
twenty  minutes,  drain,  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
drain  again.  In  another  dish  make  a  custard  of 
two  beaten  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Put  this  over  the  noodles  and  bake  about 
half  an  hour.  Serve  warm.  It  may  be  eaten 
with  sweet  milk  or  cream. 


In  drinking  the  order  is  from  the  milder  to  that 
which  is  stronger  and  of  Jiner  flavor. 

[121] 


Orange  Roly-Poly 

Sift  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  two 
cupfuls  of  flour;  rub  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  one  of  lard ;  add  half  a  cupful  of  milk, 
and  roll  out  the  dough  into  a  sheet  about  half  as 
wide  as  it  is  long.  Spread  this  with  four  sweet 
oranges  sliced  and  seeded;  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
roll  up  the  dough  with  the  fruit  inside,  pinching 
the  ends  together  that  the  fruit  may  not  seep 
out.  Tie  the  pudding  up  in  a  cloth,  allowing  it 
room  to  swell,  drop  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
and  boil  steadily  for  half  an  hour.  Remove  from 
cloth,  and  lay  on  hot  dish.    Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Peach  Roll 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  and  cut  it  into  pieces 
of  even  size,  rolling  each  piece  out  thin.  Spread 
with  ripe  peaches  sliced  thin,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
add  several  small  bits  of  butter  to  each  portion, 
roll  up,  and  pinch  the  ends  together.  Place  in  a 
deep  pan,  and  add  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  half  a 
cupful  of  butter  to  every  four  rolls.  Pour  in  hot 
water  enough  to  cover  the  dough,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  half  an  hour.    Serve  with  cream. 


A  drunkard  knows  not  how  to  drink,  and  he  who 
eats  too  much,  knows  not  how  to  eat. 

[122] 


Pineapple  Creole 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk  with  a  cupful  of  rice.  When 
cold,  add  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  few  drops  of 
vanilla,  a  teaspoonful  of  maraschino,  a  spoonful 
of  whipped  cream,  an  ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved 
in  a  little  milk,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
pineapple.  Fill  up  timbals,  pour  apricot  jelly  over, 
and  serve. 

Plum  Pudding 

Take  a  pound  of  bread-crumbs,  a  pound  of  flour, 
a  pound  of  suet,  a  pound  of  currants  and  raisins, 
mixed,  half  a  pound  each  of  almonds,  candied 
citron,  and  sugar,  one  short  pint  of  New  Orleans 
molasses,  one  grated  orange,  eight  eggs,  one  grated 
nutmeg,  and  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  cloves, 
ginger,  and  allspice.  Prepare  raisins  and  currants, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  mix  with  the  chopped  cit- 
ron and  blanched  almonds.  Mix  the  suet  with 
flour,  crumbs,  salt,  sugar,  spices,  and  orange  peel, 
adding  next  the  eggs,  milk,  and  fruit.  Scald  and 
dredge  a  large  strong  pudding  cloth,  and  lay  in  it 
the  pudding;  tie  well,  and  daub  the  string-hole 
with  dough.  The  pudding  must  be  placed  in  boil- 
ing water  and  boiled  for  eight  hours,  but  it  may 
be  boiled  six  or  seven  hours  before  being  needed, 
and  finished  the  day  it  is  to  be  served. 


Give  him  a  sugar  plum  if  he  is  good. 

— Charlotte  Bronte. 

[1231 


Prune  Puffs 

Mash  and  sweeten  a  cupful  of  stoned  prunes. 
Sift  a  cupful  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  together, 
and  add  water  enough  to  make  a  soft  batter. 
Grease  ramekins  or  teacups  with  butter,  and  drop 
in  each  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful 
of  mashed  prunes,  then  another  tablespoonful  of 
batter.  Put  the  cups  in  a  steamer  or  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  cook  until  the  dough  will  not  stick  to 
a  straw.  Serve  with  sauce  made  as  follows;  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  mixed  and  moistened  with  cold  water,  and 
two  cupfuls  of  clear  boiling  water.  Flavor  with 
nutmeg,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


Prune  Whips 


Stew  twenty  prunes  without  sugar  until  tender, 
drain,  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Beat  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  pinch  of  salt  added ; 
add  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  flavor  with 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Fold  in  the  prunes. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  ten  minutes;  remove  the  cover  to  allow 
the  pudding  to  brown  slightly.  Serve  cold  in 
glass  cups  with  whipped  cream. 


Their  various  cares  in  one  great  point  combine 
The  business  of  their  lives,  that  is — to  dine. 

— Young. 


[124] 


Pudding  Sauce 


Put  a  quart  of  water,  a  lemon  and  a  small  orange, 
sliced,  a  piece  of  whole  cinnamon,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  into  a  sauce  pan,  and  let  them 
boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  in  an  ounce 
of  corn-starch,  mixed  with  half  a  cupful  of  water, 
and  stir  for  about  a  minute.  Flavor  with  any 
wine  desired. 

Queen  of  Puddings 

A  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  a  quart  of  boiled  milk,  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  the  rind  of 
a  lemon,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  an  extra  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  for 
frosting.  Mix  the  other  ingredients  and,  after 
baking  nearly  an  hour,  spread  the  pudding  with 
a  layer  of  raspberry  jam,  or  other  preserve,  and 
with  the  frosting.    Return  to  the  oven  and  brown. 


Eating  is  a  necessity,  but  cooking  is  an  art, 
[125] 


Rice  Pudding 


Wash  half  a  cupful  of  rice  in  cold  water,  and  put 
it  in  a  double  boiler  with  a  quart  of  scalded  milk. 
Cook  quickly  until  tender;  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  an  egg  until  light, 
and  add  it  to  the  rice,  cooking  for  one  minute. 
Pour  it  into  the  dish  in  which  the  pudding  is  to 
be  sent  to  the  table.  Mix  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  with  a  third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cinnamon,  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  of  the  pud- 
ding. Cut  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  tiny 
bits  and  drop  them  at  regular  intervals  over  the 
pudding.  When  the  butter  melts  the  sugar  and 
cinnamon  will  form  a  rich  looking  brown  sauce. 
Serve  hot. 

Steamed  Apple  Dumplings 

Pare  and  core  tart  cooking  apples.  Envelop  each 
in  a  layer  of  biscuit  dough  rolled  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible. Place  the  dumplings  in  a  baking  pan,  and 
sprinkle  them  plentifully  with  cinnamon  and  bits 
of  butter.  Half  cover  them  with  water  and  sugar 
to  make  a  syrup.  Steam  for  thirty  minutes. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  plain  cream. 


The  harvest  and  vintage  come  not  every  day, 
therefore  be  provident. 

[126] 


Steamed  Pudding 

Half  a  cupful  of  molasses,  a  cupful  and  three- 
quarters  of  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a 
cupful  of  raisins,  butter  the  size  of  a  butternut, 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Steam 
one  hour.     Eat  with  wine  sauce. 

Wine  Sauce:  A  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  a  cupful  of  fine  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream. 
Add  a  glass  of  wine.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over 
it.  Serve  cold.  If  wanted  hot,  boil  half  a  pint 
of  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  to  it 
the  other  ingredients,  and  set  over  the  top  of  the 
tea-kettle  three  or  four  minutes  before  sending  to 
the  table. 

Suet  Pudding 

Sift  a  cupful  of  flour  into  a  mixing  bowl,  add  to 
it  a  teacupful  of  chopped  suet,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  cupful  of  Sul- 
tana raisins,  and  a  cupful  of  currants.  Mix  dry, 
and  add  one  cupful  of  molasses  and  one  cupful  of 
milk.  Mix  thoroughly  and  steam  for  two  hours. 
The  batter  must  be  stiff  as  for  fruit  cake.  By 
dividing  it  into  two  or  three  parts,  using  tin  cans 
to  suit  the  size  of  the  family,  only  one  pudding 
need  be  heated  or  cut  at  one  time.  It  can  be 
made  in  advance,  like  fruit  cake,  and  reheated  by 
steaming  when  wanted.  It  will  keep  for  several 
weeks    during    cold    weather.     Serve    with    hard 

sauce. 

Fish  for  fasting  days,  and  moreover  puddings 
and  flap-jacks. 

— Shakespeare. 

[127] 


Tapioca  Pudding 

Soak  a  teacupful  of  fine  tapioca  in  cold  water  for 
an  hour,  drain,  add  to  a  quart  of  scalded  milk, 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  thirty  minutes. 
Beat  seven  eggs,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  sugar  together.  Pour 
this  over  the  tapioca  gradually,  and  turn  into 
buttered  pudding  dish.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven.     Serve  with  Madeira  sauce. 

If  apple  tapioca  is  desired,  fill  the  pudding  dish 
half  full,  put  steamed  sliced  apples  with  cinnamon 
in  the  centre  and  fill  the  dish  with  the  rest  of 
the  tapioca. 


Epicurean  cooks  sharpen  with  cloyless  sauce 
his  appetite. 

— Anthony  and  Cleopatra. 

[128] 


Ices  and  Ice  Creams 


A  perpetual  feast  of  nectared  sweets 
where  no  crude  surfeit  reigns. 

John  Milton  (Comus). 


[129] 


Ices  and  Ice  Creams 

Alexander  the  Great,  who  loved  all  the  good  things 
of  life,  is  supposed  to  have  been  the  first  to  intro- 
duce ice  at  the  table.  It  has  been  constantly 
growing  in  favor  ever  since,  until  to-day  ices,  ice- 
creams, and  frozen  sweets  are  the  most  popular 
desserts  on  the  menu  among  grown-ups  as  well  as 
children.  As  the  final  course  to  a  hearty  dinner, 
their  varying  forms  and  diversified  colors  are  as 
gratifying  to  the  eye  as  to  the  replete  appetite. 

The  winter-logged  system  naturally  craves  these 
cooling  refreshments  during  the  hot  days,  and  in 
the  sick-room  they  are  of  inestimable  value.  The 
long  standing  prejudice  that  they  are  troublesome 
to  prepare  seems  to  have  disappeared,  and  with 
the  modern  contrivances  for  making  and  moulding 
frozen  desserts,  the  accomplishment  requires 
neither  much  time  nor  patience. 


1131J 


Alaska  Bake 

Cover  a  brick  mould  of  New  York  ice-cream 
thickly  with  meringue,  dust  it  with  sugar,  stand 
the  dish  on  a  board,  and  brown  it  in  a  hot  oven. 
It  is  browned  so  quickly  that  care  must  be  taken 
lest  it  scorch. 

American  Beauty 

Place  preserved  strawberries  in  the  bottom  of  a 
parfait  glass.  Fill  with  alternate  spoonfuls  of 
vanilla  and  strawberry  ice-cream,  the  latter  colored 
an  American  Beauty  shade  with  syrup  from  the 
preserves.  Cover  with  whipped  cream,  and  set 
a  strawberry  on  top. 

Banana  Fluff 

Slice  six  large  bananas,  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice 
and  grated  cocoanut,  and  place  directly  on  ice  for 
an  hour.  Mash  smooth  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
add  a  scant  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  which  should  be 
lightly  folded  in.  Pour  this  into  a  freezer,  turn  the 
crank  about  four  minutes,  or  until  there  is  a  slight 
resistance,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  whipped  cream. 
Freeze  to  the  consistency  of  soft  mush. 


Suck  the  sweets  of  sweet  philosophy. 

— Shakespeare. 

[132] 


Black-Eyed  Susan 

The  lower  part  of  a  sundae  glass  is  filled  with 
chocolate  ice-cream,  and  the  upper  part  with 
vanilla.  The  top  is  then  decorated  with  a  black- 
eyed  Susan,  having  unblanched  almonds  for  petals 
and  a  small  chocolate  cream  for  the  center. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

A  generous  pint  of  milk,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a 
cupful  of  flour,  and  two  eggs.  Mix  sugar,  flour, 
and  eggs  together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk. 
Put  a  second  cupful  of  sugar  into  a  frying  pan  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  melted  and  a  light  brown. 
Pour  this  into  the  boiling  mixture;  cook  the  whole 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  When  cool, 
add  a  quart  of  cream,  and  freeze. 

Cafe  Mousse 

The  yolks  of  five  eggs,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a 
cupful  of  strong  boiling  coffee,  and  a  pint  of 
whipped  cream.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  and  add  the 
strained  coffee  and  sugar.  When  perfectly  cold 
add  the  whipped  cream.  Mix  well,  pour  into  a 
mould,  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  four  hours. 


Do  nothing  but  eat  and  make  good  cheer, 
And  thank  God  for  a  merry  year. 

— Shakespeare. 

[133] 


French  Ice  Cream 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  place  it 
on  the  fire.  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs 
and  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  sugar.  When  the 
milk  boils  mix  all  with  a  whip,  and  remove  from 
the  fire.  Add  a  quart  of  cream,  pass  through  a 
sieve,  and  let  it  cool.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  and 
freeze. 

When  making  chocolate  ice-cream  melt  six  ounces 
of  bitter  chocolate,  stir  in  a  little  warm  cream, 
and  pour  it  into  the  composition  while  hot,  before 
adding  the  cream. 

Four  and  Four 

The  juice  of  four  lemons,  four  overripe  bananas 
mashed,  the  juice  and  pulp  of  four  oranges,  four 
cupfuls  of  water,  four  cupfuls  of  sugar,  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  all  frozen  together  as 
frappe. 

Ice  Cream  Croquette  with  Peas 

Vanilla  ice-cream  is  shaped  in  a  croquette  mould, 
coated  with  grated  chocolate  macaroons,  and 
served  on  a  bed  of  whipped  cream  garnished  with 
pieces  of  pistachio  nuts  or  small  green  candies. 
Bits  of  pistachio  nuts  top  the  cone. 


The  King  of  Desserts,  when  made  arighty 
This  frozen  delicacy  of  delight. 

The  exacting  Epicure,  with  smiles  galore, 
Like  Oliver  Twist,  will  ask  for  more. 

[134] 


Maple  Walnut  Meringue 

A  large  spoonful  of  maple  walnut  ice-cream  is 
placed  in  a  half  open  shell  of  meringue,  and  gar- 
nished with  walnut  meats.  The  serving  plate  is 
garnished  with  nasturtiums.  Any  other  ice-cream 
with  fruits  or  flowers  harmonizing  would  be  pretty 
thus  served. 

Melon  Ice  Rings 

Small  round  melons  must  be  cut  in  circles,  the 
seeds  carefully  removed,  and  the  hollows  filled 
with  whipped  cream  or  fruit  ice  just  before  serving. 

Mint  Sherbet 

Soak  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  cut  mint  leaves, 
and  the  rind  of  two  lemons  in  the  juice  of  three 
oranges  and  two  lemons,  for  half  an  hour.  Boil 
a  cupful  of  water  and  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  for 
five  or  ten  minutes,  then  pour  it  on  the  other 
ingredients.  When  cold  strain  into  the  freezer 
and  add  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  stiff,  and  a 
cupful  of  whipped  cream.  Freeze  in  the  usual 
manner  and  serve  in  slender  sherbet  glasses  gar> 
nished  with  tiny  sprigs  of  mint. 


Thou  art  a  scholar,  lei  us  therefore  eat  and 
drink. 

— Shakespeare. 

[135] 


Nesselrode  Pudding 

Boil  half  a  cupful  of  water  and  four  ounces  of 
sugar  to  a  syrup,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and 
beat  well.  Remove  from  the  fire,  pour  into  a 
bowl,  beat  until  very  light  and  cool,  and  add 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  whipped  cream.  Mix  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  fresh  fruit,  and  chest- 
nut paste.  Put  in  mould,  pack  in  ice,  and  let 
stand  for  about  an  hour  before  serving.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  or  maraschino  flavoring,  and  decorate 
with  whole  chestnuts  glace. 

Pineapple  Cream 

Halve  two  pineapples,  and  scoop  out  the  meat, 
which  shred  and  mix  with  pulverized  sugar. 
Refill  shells,  and  place  a  spoonful  of  vanilla  ice- 
cream on  top.     Garnish  as  desired. 

Pineapple  Water 

This  is  not  an  ice-cream  but  an  ice  with  all  the 
fluffy  whiteness  of  a  cream,  yet  without  the 
satiating  richness  of  the  latter.  It  is  quite  differ- 
ent from  the  ordinary  ice,  being  especially  light 
and  delicate  in  character,  and  as  delightful  to  the 
palate,  as  to  the  eye.  No  gelatine  is  required  for 
this  ice,  egg  whites  giving  it  body  as  well  as  its 
creamy  whiteness. 


Like  balls  of  gold 

The  peaches  seemed  that  had  in  fire  been  rolled. 

[136] 


Put  a  cupful  of  white  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water 
over  the  fire,  and  bring  it  to  a  boil.  Cool,  and 
stir  in  half  a  can  of  chopped  pineapple  and  the 
juice  of  two  lemons.  Put  into  the  freezer  and  turn 
until  it  begins  to  thicken  slightly;  add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  stir  up  well,  and  beat 
until  frozen.  Pack,  and  let  it  stand  a  few  hours 
to  ripen. 

Pineapple  Mousse 

Five  ounces  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs 
beaten  warm.  When  cold  add  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  whipped  cream,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
pineapple,  and  a  little  kirsch-wasser.  Put  in  the 
freezer  for  two  hours.  Decorate  with  sliced  pine- 
apples and  brandied  cherries. 

Pistachio  Nest 

A  nest  of  pistachio  ice-cream  is  shaped  in  a  soup 
ladle,  and  the  centre  scooped  out  with  a  teaspoon. 
Three  Jordan  almonds  are  placed  within  and  the 
nest  is  served  on  a  bed  of  straws,  represented  by 
crossed  slivers  of  candied  orange  peel. 

Raspberry  Ice 

Mix  a  quart  of  raspberries  with  a  pound  of  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  an  orange  or  lemon.  The  rasp- 
berries should  be  well  mashed  with  the  sugar,  and 
passed  through  a  sieve.  Let  it  stand  an  hour,  and 
freeze. 

Due  nourishment  we  seek,  not  gluttonous  delight. 
[137] 


Roman  Cream 

Put  five  ounces  of  sugar  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
pint  of  milk,  a  small  piece  of  cinnamon,  and  an 
ounce  of  gelatine,  and  place  it  on  the  side  of  the 
fire.  Allow  the  gelatine  to  dissolve  and  then 
whisk  it  well.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  until 
they  are  as  light  as  for  custard,  and  put  them  into 
the  saucepan,  but  do  not  let  the  mixture  boil. 
Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  freezer;  when 
nearly  cold,  whip  to  a  froth,  and  add  a  teacupful 
of  curacao.  Turn  the  cream  out  into  glasses,  and 
keep  them  on  ice  until  wanted. 

Snow  Flurry 

Cover  a  mound  of  lemon  ice  with  thin  slices  of 
assorted  fresh  fruits,  and  decorate  with  fresh  or 
candied  cherries.  Over  the  whole,  fleck  freshly 
grated  cocoanut,  letting  it  drift  thickly  around  the 
base  of  the  mound. 

Watermelon  Punch 

Two  quarts  of  melon,  sugar  to  taste,  and  half  a 
cupful  of  sherry.  Chop  the  watermelon  coarse, 
adding  sugar  as  desired.  Let  it  stand  an  hour,  then 
add  the  sherry,  and  freeze  to  the  mushy  stage. 
Make  a  bowl,  using  half  the  watermelon  rind, 
scalloping  it  around  the  edge.  Chill  this  bowl. 
When  ready  to  serve,  fill  the  bowl  with  the  frozen 
mixture,  and  serve  at  the  table  in  punch  cups. 

If  I  bring  thee  not  something  to  drink,  I  will 
give  thee  leave  to  die. 

— Shakespeare. 

[1381 


White  Parfait 

The  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one 
small  cupful  of  water,  a  pint  of  cream,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  almonds.  Boil  the 
sugar  in  the  water  until  it  threads.  Pour  this  over 
the  beaten  whites,  and  heat.  When  cold,  add 
whipped  cream,  nuts,  cherries,  or  marshmallows 
cut  in  pieces.     Pack  and  freeze. 

Winter  Memories 

This  ice  is  particularly  dainty  and  cool  looking. 
It  consists  of  snow-white  mint  sherbet  garnished 
with  bits  of  green  mint  jelly,  and  sprigs  of  fresh 
mint  leaves  dusted  with  powdered  sugar.  It  is 
most  refreshing  when  served  on  a  hot  day. 


He  who  eats  the  fowl  alone,  will  have  to  saddle 
his  horse  alone. 

[139] 


Fruit  Desserts 


I  will  make  an  end  to  my  dinner; 
there^s  pippins  and  cheese  to  come. 

— Shakespeare. 


[141] 


Fruits 

Fruits  have  been  a  great  factor  in  man's  diet  ever 
since  Eve  made  their  acquaintance  that  unfor- 
tunate day  in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  Their  nutri- 
tive value  is  not  high,  yet  they  are  important, 
nevertheless,  and  should  be  served  generously 
throughout  the  year. 

Americans  are  too  prone  to  serve  raw  fruits  only 
in  their  season,  neglecting  the  many  sensible  uses 
the  Germans  make  of  them  when  cooked.  Mix- 
tures of  fruits,  both  raw  and  cooked,  are  almost 
numberless.  Thus  the  ambitious  housewife,  eager 
for  new  dishes,  can  produce  delightful  treats  by 
experimenting.  For  an  emergency  dessert  they 
are  easily  first  favorites,  because  of  the  little  time 
it  takes  to  prepare  them. 


[1431 


Ambrosia 

Slice  pineapple  very  thin  or  pick  it  apart  from  the 
centre  with  a  fork,  sprinkle  it  thick  with  sugar, 
and  cover  the  top  with  grated  cocoanut.  Decorate 
with  pineapple  leaves. 

Angers  Snow 

Pare,  and  grate  the  meat  of  one  cocoanut.  Peel 
and  cut  a  dozen  oranges  in  small  pieces,  taking 
out  the  seeds.  Put  a  layer  of  orange  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  pretty  glass  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
then  a  layer  of  cocoanut,  then  a  layer  of  orange, 
sugar,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  the 
last  layer  cocoanut.     Let  it  stand  for  an  hour. 

Apple  Porcupine 

Core  large  perfect  apples,  fill  with  cinnamon  and 
sugar,  and  bake.  Chill  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
and  whip  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  the  grated 
pulp  of  a  raw  apple  until  thick  and  white.  When 
cold,  coat  the  baked  apples  thickly  with  this  mix- 
ture, stud  with  split  blanched  almonds,  and  serve. 


Comfort  me  with  apples, 

— The  Song  of  Solomon. 

[144] 


Apple  Puree 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  six  apples;  stew  quickly 
until  tender.  Pass  through  a  sieve,  add  a  cupful 
of  sugar,  and  put  on  the  fire  again  to  cook  until 
thick.  When  cool,  add  the  juice  of  five  lemons, 
and  beat  while  standing  in  ice  water  until  very 
white  and  foamy,  and  quite  stiff.  Stir  in  a  scant 
cupful  of  fruit,  cut  small.  Mould,  and  serve  with 
thin  rounds  of  apple  cooked  tender  in  equal 
measures  of  sugar  and  water.  Flavor  the  syrup 
with  lemon  juice,  and  pour  over  the  apple  puree. 

Apple  Trifle 

Boil  five  apples  to  a  pulp,  sweetening  to  taste. 
When  cool,  place  in  a  large  bowl,  together  with 
the  white  of  one  egg,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and 
a  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  the  mixture  about  thirty 
minutes  with  a  wire  egg  beater.  The  result  is 
three  times  the  amount  one  started  with,  enough 
to  serve  ten  people. 

Bananas  au  Cerise 

Skin  and  slice  three  bananas,  sugar  to  taste,  add 
a  liqueur-glassful  of  maraschino  and  a  wine- 
glassful  of  sherry.     Serve  very  cold. 


A  surfeit  of  the  sweetest  things 
The  deepest  loathing  to  the  stomach  brings. 

— Shakespeare. 

[1451 


Banana  Snow 

Three  bananas,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  the  white  of  one  egg. 
Break  up  the  bananas,  and  cream  them  with  a 
fork.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  and  beat 
well.  Then  add  the  white  of  egg,  and  beat  all 
together  until  stiff.     Serve  cold. 

Banana  Sponge 

Dissolve  two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water;  in  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  pour  over  this  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir 
into  it  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  cupful  of  sugai . 
Let  the  gelatine  fully  dissolve,  strain,  and  cool. 
Cut  three  bananas  into  small  pieces  and  beat  them 
to  a  pulp;  then  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and 
beat  into  the  banana  cream.  When  the  gelatine 
is  cold  beat  it  into  the  eggs  and  bananas,  a  little 
at  a  time  till  quite  stiff.     Serve  with  cream. 

Banana  with  Lemon  Juice 

Wash  and  dry  whole  bananas.  Cut  their  ends  off 
square,  and  split  in  halves  lengthwise.  Divide  the 
pulp  in  their  skins  into  convenient  mouthfuls, 
sprinkle  with  lemon  juice,  and  with  powdered 
sugar.     Serve  from  skins. 


All  human  history  attests 
That  happiness  for  man  —  the  hungry  sinner — 
Since  Eve  ate  apples,  much  depends  on  dinner. 

— Byron. 

[140] 


Cantaloupe 

Cantaloupes  should  be  washed  carefully  before 
placing  in  the  ice-box  to  cool.  They  should  be 
cut  in  half,  and  served  very  cold,  but  never  with 
chopped  ice,  as  this  makes  them  watery  and  taste- 
less. 

Cantaloupe  Cocktail 

Cut  in  half  and  remove  the  seeds  of  a  cantaloupe. 
Mix  fresh  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces  with  stoned 
cherries,  using  half  as  much  cherries  as  pineapple, 
and  sprinkle  liberally  with  sugar.  Fill  the  halves 
of  the  melon  with  the  pineapple  and  cherry  mix- 
ture. Set  in  a  pan  of  chopped  ice  until  thoroughly 
chilled,  and  place  three  pitted  cherries  on  each  half 
of  melon. 

Cherries  au  Rhum 

Wash,  dry  well,  and  pit  a  pound  of  cherries.  Add 
sugar  to  taste,  and  half  a  pint  of  Jamaica  rum. 
Set  fire  to  it  and  serve  while  burning. 


That  last  cherry  soothes  a  roughness  of  my 
palate. 

— Robert  Browning. 

[147] 


Cherry  Jelly  Nests 

Set  a  small  mould  within  a  larger  on  a  little  ring 
of  tin  that  will  hold  it  up  half  an  inch  from  the 
bottom.  Soak  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  cupful  of 
cold  water  for  half  an  hour;  add  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  and  two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar.  Mix 
in  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Pour  into  the 
small  bowls,  allowing  a  nest  for  each  individual 
to  be  served.  After  filling  the  bottom  of  the 
bowls,  set  the  small  moulds  on  the  little  rings  and 
fill  in  the  space  between  the  two  moulds  with 
gelatine.  Set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Before 
serving  remove  the  small  moulds  and  rings,  and 
fill  the  jelly  nests  with  fresh  cherries,  chopped  with 
powdered  sugar.  Keep  in  the  ice-box  until  ready 
to  serve.  Turn  out  the  jelly  nest  on  a  flat  glass 
dish,  dot  a  little  whipped  cream  on  the  top  of  each 
cherry-filled  nest,  and  serve. 

Flummeries 

Flummery  is  thickened  fruit.  The  small  fruits  are 
preferred.  Put  a  pint  of  blackberries  into  a  pint 
of  water  over  the  fire,  bring  to  boiling  point,  add 
two  rounding  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  mois- 
tened in  six  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  bring 
again  to  boiling  point,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  turn  out  to  cool.  This 
may  be  eaten  plain,  with  milk  or  with  cream. 
Other  fruits  may  be  substituted. 

As  at  English  Jeasts    .     .     .     to  make  the  end 
most  sweet. 

— Shakespeare. 

[148] 


French  Trifle 

Soak  a  fresh  baked  cold  jelly  roll  In  a  cupful  of 
fruit  juice;  allow  it  to  stand  for  an  hour.  Whip 
a  cupful  of  cream,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Before 
serving,  decorate  it  with  the  cream  in  horizontal 
lines,  using  a  forcing  bag  and  star  tube.  Garnish 
it  with  the  stalk  and  leaves  of  angelica,  and  place 
here  and  there  a  few  sugar  roses. 

Fruit  Chop  Sooey 

Crush  a  quart  of  strawberries,  and  place  it  in  dishes 
ready  to  serve,  which  have  been  lined  with  crisp 
lettuce  leaves.  Garnish  the  berries  with  small 
cubes  of  oranges.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a 
stiff  froth,  sweeten  to  taste,  drop  it  on  the  centre  of 
the  fruit,  place  a  ripe  berry  in  this,  and  add  sliced 
bananas.  This  will  serve  six  persons,  and  prove 
not  only  a  palatable  dish,  but  also  an  attractive 
and  economical  dessert. 


Method  '5  more  sure  at  moments  to  take  hold 
Of  the  best  feelings  of  mankind ^  which  grow 
More  tender,  as  we  every  day  behold. 
Than  that,  all-softening,  overpowering  knell, 
The  tocsin  of  the  soul — the  dinner  bell. 

— Byron. 

[149] 


Fruit  Whiff 

A  pint  of  sweet  cream,  a  quart  of  strawberries,  a 
third  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  a  cupful  and  a  quarter 
of  white  sugar,  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Mince  the  strawber- 
ries and  sweeten;  soak  the  gelatine,  and  add  a 
little  hot  water;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff, 
and  the  cream  thick  and  light;  strain  the  gelatine; 
add  the  flavoring,  then  the  strawberries;  beat  all 
a  few  minutes,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 


Fruit  Whip 


Sweeten  to  taste  either  strawberries,  raspberries, 
nectarines,  or  peaches;  mash  the  fruit,  and  to 
every  quart  allow  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  well- 
beaten.  Set  on  ice,  and  serve  with  or  without 
cream. 


Then  to  breakfast  with  what  appetite  you  have. 

— Shakespeare. 

[1501 


Grapefruit  Cocktail 

Cut  the  grapefruit  in  half,  and  carefully  scoop  out 
the  pulp  without  any  of  the  bitter  white  skin. 
Clean  the  sides  of  the  shells,  and  throw  them  into 
cold  water.  Hull  a  pint  of  strawberries,  mix  them 
with  the  grapefruit  pulp;  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar,  and  stand  the  mixture  on 
ice.  At  serving  fill  the  shells  with  the  mixture, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  ice  shaved  fine,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  rum  or  sherry.  Stand  the  shells 
on  a  dainty  doily  or  a  spray  of  fern,  and  send  at 
once  to  the  table.  Maraschino  gives  a  delicious 
flavor.  Cut  a  very  thin  slice  off  the  bottom  of 
the  shell  so  it  will  not  tip. 

Iced  Pears 

Select  smooth  medium-sized  pears,  peel  and  core. 
Stew  until  tender,  remove  from  fire,  and  when 
cold  fill  the  cavities  with  jelly  and  cover  with 
icing  made  of  sugar  and  white  of  an  egg.  Put 
cloves  in  the  bottom  ends. 


Not  what  we  give,  but  what  we  share; 
For  the  gift  without  the  giver  is  bare. 

[151] 


Jellied  Apples 


Mix  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  two  cupfuls  of  boil- 
ing water.  Peel  and  quarter  six  tart  apples,  and  add 
them  to  the  sugar  and  water.  Put  them  in  a  baking 
dish  in  the  oven,  closely  covered,  and  bake  until  pink. 
Put  the  apples  in  a  mould.  Soak  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  gelatine  in  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water,  add 
the  juice  of  an  orange  and  a  lemon,  color  pink  if 
desired,  pour  all  into  the  mould  with  the  apples, 
and  set  it  aside  to  become  firm.  Serve  with  soft 
custard  or  whipped  cream. 

Marshmallow  Icing 

Make  a  boiled  frosting  with  a  cupful  of  sugar 
and  half  a  cupful  of  water.  When  it  threads  pour  it 
over  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Spread  a  layer 
of  icing  between  the  cakes,  and  into  each  layer  of 
icing  press  marshmallows  cut  in  halves,  setting 
them  as  quickly  as  possible.  If  they  are  put  in 
while  the  cake  and  icing  are  warm,  they  will 
soften  enough  to  blend  well.  If  not  warm,  put 
in  the  oven  for  a  minute  or  two. 


Who  feeds  himself  with  his  alms,  feeds  three, 
Himself,  his  hungering  neighbor,  and  ME. 

[1521 


Orange  Custard 

Mix  the  juice  and  pulp  of  a  lemon  with  a  cupful 
of  sugar,  and  about  half  a  pint  of  water.  Boil 
sufficiently  to  dissolve  the  sugar,  and  strain. 
Bring  to  a  boil  again,  and  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cornstarch,  blended  with  a  little  cold  water. 
Stir  and  boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  When  cool 
pour  this  mixture  over  three  or  four  sliced  oranges. 
This  may  be  decorated  with  a  meringue  or  served 
with  sweetened  or  whipped  cream. 

Pineapple  Delight 

Boil  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  until  soft,  and  drain 
it.  Dissolve  a  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  in  the 
boiling  water  and  add  the  rice,  and  three-quarters 
of  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Cool,  and  add  a  pinch  of 
salt,  two  cupfuls  of  pineapple  juice,  and  a  cupful 
of  whipped  cream.  Cool,  and  serve  in  dainty 
glasses  with  a  cherry  on  the  top  of  each. 

Strawberry  Dessert 

Mash  a  quart  of  strawberries,  and  sprinkle  with  a 
cup  of  sugar.  Let  them  stand  for  five  or  six  hours 
—  or  even  over  night.  Drain  off  the  juice  —  there 
should  be  a  cupful  —  and  into  this  break  ten  or 
twelve  marshmallows.  Let  them  soak  two  hours. 
Add  a  pint  of  cream,  whipped  stiff,  to  the  crushed 
strawberries,  and  serve  at  once  in  sherbet  glasses. 
It  is  pretty  to  put  a  whole  berry  on  each  glass. 

//  you  will  but  speak  the  word,  I  will  make  you 
a  good  syllabub. 

— Walton. 

[153] 


strawberry  Whip 

A  cupful  of  crushed  strawberries,  a  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  the  well-beaten  white  of  an 
egg.  Put  the  ingredients  into  a  bowl,  and  beat 
with  a  wire  whisk  until  stiff  enough  to  hold  in 
shape.  About  thirty  minutes  will  be  required  for 
beating.     Pile  lightly  on  a  dish  and  chill. 

Syllabub 

Whip  a  pint  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stand  it 
on  ice.  At  serving  time  fill  it  into  glasses,  or 
serve  on  a  large  glass  dish,  dust  thick  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  sprinkle  either  with  chopped 
almonds,  grated  macaroons,  or  chopped  candied 
fruits.  This  is  one  of  the  few  desserts  that  can 
be  made  easily  and  quickly. 

Watermelon 

Scoop  out  watermelon  balls  with  a  Parisienne  spoon. 
Serve  them  on  a  bed  of  shaved  ice  in  grape-fruit 
cups,  and  garnish  with  a  spray  of  fern. 


Sweets  to  the  sweet:    farewell! 

— Shakespeare. 

[1541 


HI 


'SALADS' 

BY 

OLIVE  M.  HULSE 

'SALADS',  which  is  a  complement  of  'Desserts/ 
is  the  most  complete  work  of  the  kind  heretofore 
pubHshed.  Every  recipe  reflects  a  master-hand 
in  the  art  of  salad-making. 

Among  present-day  epicures  the  fashionable  din- 
ner is  not  a  success  which  does  not  include  a  new 
salad.  Science  has  demonstrated  that  various 
green  fruits  and  vegetables,  properly  prepared, 
are  nature's  best  method  of  refreshing  and  re- 
plenishing a  tired  mind  and  a  tired  body.  This 
book  treats  the  subject  exhaustively. 

It  contains  a  history  of  the  salad,  showing  that 
leading  thinkers  of  all  times  have  been  partial  to 
such  foods. 

It  gives  two  hundred  recipes  of  the  newest  and 
best  combinations,  each  a  masterpiece. 

It  gives  thirty  recipes  for  making  dressings — the 
keystone  of  the  perfect  salad. 

It  is  a  companion  book  to  'Desserts'  being  the 
same  in  size,  binding,  type,  color  and  price. 

It  is  written  in  comprehensible  English. 
Every  progressive  woman  should  have  SALADS. 
The  price  is  ONE  DOLLAR. 
THE    HOPEWELL    PRESS 

One  Hundred  and  Twenty-Two  South  Michigan  Avenue 
CHICAGO,  U.  S.  A. 


IAN    6    1913 


../\ 


V^ 


^  '' 


\\    ^a^    : 


W  '*-"'  <^ 


.0* 


♦  -     o 


■•^^  "•^/^  ;*>''^^  "^0^    -> 


0"'^.  ^M 


■V 


■q,      *,, 


C-.       -^O 


O 


^ 
-♦ 


^-o/ 


\  ^^i^pf*"  J'%,  ^ 


•y 


<.. 


^0 


4  *    » 


-.:T^^  A 


■<^^        'o  ,  »  *         .0 


4  o 


o_      * 


>       ^<^.        C.4.'       *'ySa^"*.  ^^       A^  .\ 


'^-o.c,^ 


'^^^'^^ 


.V     * 


:.    -n/^r.^    o, 


0^  V   *?f!T«*  A  ^. 


,-.      >^o<        .'. 


'*^     "^-^^     :^^^\     ""^v     »^P!^:     v-^^'     -^^^^t    ^'^"^ 


HECKMAN 
BINDERY  INC.        |§| 

f^    DEC  88 
^      N.  MANCHESTER, 
^  INDIANA  46962 


4^9^ 


■•  «.  ..^  .>%^A-.  v.^'^*  y^l^'-,  v,*^ ..' 


-o,    ^.^T^T*     A 


