cP  ,^v 


,v 


^  V* 


>P^. 


'-V,  ss'S 


,,v-v  -^, 


jOo* 


*  I 


E5SSESESH5HSESH5ESH5E5H5i2Si 


Economy   in  Food   is   the  "Wealth   of  Nations. 


f 


HE 


UNIVERSAL 
K06K-B08K 

1894. 


"The  Destiny-  of  Nations  Depends   Upon  the  Manner 

in  Which  They   Feed  Themselves." 


WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 


KING'S  ?&um 

812-814  7TH  ST„  N.  W. 


5I?<?  /T\05t  <?o/T)p!ete 
IV]illmery 

eioaK 

Establishment  In 

WASHINGTON. 
King's  Palace, 

812-814  7th  St.,  N.  W. 
Branch   Store    715    Market   Space. 

ii 


"We  Grow  Like  What  we  Eat.    Bad  Food  Depresses,  and  Good 
Food  Exalts  us  Like  an  Inspiration." 


The 

Universal  Cook-Book, 

compiled  from 

THE  TESTED   RECIPES  OF 
PRACTICAL  COOKS. 

r  , 


V1 

COMPILED 

BY 

Mrs.  Chas.  W. 

FlTTS, 

WASHINGTON, 

D.   C. 

Age  Printing  Company,  8th  and  H  Sts 

.,  N.  W.,  Washington, 

D.C. 

k 

A  Receipt  for  One  Dozen 

PHOTOGRAPHS 

& 

TAKEN   BY  YX 

J.  D.  BOYCE, 
<H^Photographer,--^<§) 

1113  F  St.  Northwest. 

Is  guaranteed  to  give  satisfaction. 

Life-size  Portraits  of  all  Muds. 
Interior  and  Eiterior  Views. 
Railroad  Scenery,  Bridges,  Machinery,  &c 
Old  Pictnres  Copied  Any  Size, 

Neatness. 

Promptness. 

Attention. 


SHOULD  YOU  LIKE  TO  BE 

miiiirimiiiiiiiTiiiiriiiiiiiimiiiiim  1 1 1 1  t  i  tttttti  i  ti  i  hi  r-rr-= 

FITTED        ^ 

With  a  Comfortable  Shoe. 

toll's  % 

hoe  if(- 
^g  petla©e 

Can   Furnish  Them  At  a  Very 

SMALL  COST 

807   7th  Street,   N-    W> 

NEXT  DOOR  TO  KING'S  PALACE 


Best  in  the  CUorld. 

Housekeepers,  do  you  want  the  best  bread  obtainable? 

If  so,  use,  ''CERES  "  Flour  in  your  bread  making  and 
you  will  have  bread  that  will  be  the  envy  of  your  neighbors, 
Everybody  who  has  used  "  CERES  "  Flour  says  that  it  makes 
"more"  bread,  "lighter"  bread,  "sweeter"  bread,  "whiter'' 
bread  and  "better  "  bread  than  any  other  flour.  Tell  your 
grocer  that  you  will  have  "  CERES  "  Flour  and  that  you'll 
accept  no  substitute.  We  will  tell  you  a  way  so  you  can  be 
positive  that  you  are  getting  the  genuine  "CERES."  L,ook 
for  the  circular  signed  in  autograph  by  Win.  M.  Gait  &  Co., 
and  bearing  the  imprint  of  two  gold  medals,  which  is  con- 
tained in  every  sack  of  "  CERES  "  Flour.  "CERES"  for 
sale  by  all  grocers.     We  only  wholesale  "CERES." 

Mitm.  JVI.  Gait  &  Co., 

Wholesale  Flour  and  Feed  Dealers, 

Cor.    ist   and   Indiana    Ave.,    N.  W. 
The  Compiler  of  this  book  has  used  the   CERES  Fi^our  and  re- 
commends its  use  for  bread  and  pastry. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 


CONTENTS. 

Introductory viii 

Soups I 

Fish  and  Shell  Fish 13 

Meats 29 

Poultry  and   Game 51 

Vegetables 67 

Salads 83 

Pickles  and  Meat  Sauces 91 

Cheese : 101 

Eggs 105 

Bread 113 

Pies 129 

Puddings   and  Sauces 137 

Desserts  and  Fancy  Dishes 147 

Cakes 15.3 

Preserves  and  Jellies 167 

Candies • 17  l 

Miscellaneous 173 

Index  to  Advertisers 177 


EACH   and  EVERY  CAN  OF 


IMPERIAL 

BAKING     POWDER. 

^#  PERFECT  %r  PURITY^- 

Is  guaranteed  in  every  respect  as  to  Quality  and  Purity,  and 
dealers  are  authorized  to  refund  the  purchase  money  should  par- 
ties have  cause  for  complaint. 

This  Powder  contains  no  ALUM,  AMMONIA,  or  any  INJURI- 
OUS SUBSTANCE  whatsoever,  the  principal  component  part  be- 
ing ABSOLUTELY  PURE  CREAM  TARTAR,  and  other  mate- 
rials in  chemical  proportion. 

From  our  knowledge  of  the  articles  used  by  us  in  the  manu- 
facture of  the  IMPERIAL  BAKING  POWDER,  and  from  the 
opinion  of  high  authorities  who  have  tested  the  same, 

WE  CONFIDENTLY  CLAIM  THAT  THE  IMPERIAL  IS 
UNSURPASSED  BY  ANY  BAKING  POWDER  ON  THE 
MARKET. 

This  may  seem  to  be  a  bold  assertion,  but  we  know  it  to  be  a 
FACT. 

We  do  not  intend  to  spend  FABULOUS  AMOUNTS  in  advertis- 
ing, but  propose  to  give  the  BENEFIT  of  this  ENORMOUS  EX- 
PENSE to  the  CONSUMER  in  the  price  of  the  article. 

The  .Cheapen  end  Begfe  pigh  foade  Baling  potodei1 

ON  THE  MARKET  IS  THE 

IMPERIAL. 

ASK  YOUR  GROCER  FOR  IT. 


i  lb.  cans,  40  cents.    ]/z  lb.  cans,  20  cents.     3  oz.  cans,  10  cents. 

vi 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 


INTRODUCTORY. 

Ladies  : 

The  Universal  Cook  Book  is  before  you. 
While  it  does  not  aspire  to  a  place  among  kindred  books 
by  noteworthy  authors,  the  Compiler  feels  moved  to  say 
that  she  trusts  that  its  carefully  selected  recipes  of  proven 
merit  may  entitle  it  to  "honorable  mention"  in  the 
kitchen. 

That  she  is  able  to  place  this  book  in  your 
hands,  is  due  to  the  substantial  support  and  encourage- 
ment which  she  has  received  from  the  members  of  the 
Ladies'  Aid  of  the  Church  of  Our  Father,  to  whom  this 
book  is  respectfully  dedicated. 

THE  COMPILER. 
December  5,  1894. 


BIIOP    THAT  POSTAL 

now  ! 

asking  onr  wagon  to  call  Monday. 
We  have  the  facilities^  the  machinery 
the  experience  and  the  will  to  give 
yon  better  service   than  any    other 

—  laundry  in  Washington.      We  study 

curtains  YOUR  INTERESTS.  We  soon  found 
laundered  that  Potomac  water  wasn't  clean 
enough  to  wash  your  clothes. 
WE  NOW  USE  ONLY  FILTERED  AR- 
TESIAN WELL  WATER. 
The  best  washing  ingredients  that  money 
can  buy  are  none  too  good  for  your  wash- 
ing. We'll  never  he  satisfied  till  you  pat- 
ronize us  «  neither  will  you. 

Steam 


50c. 

up. 


YALE 


Laundry, 
F.  E  WALKER  &  CO., 

Main  Branch,  514  10th  St., 

Plant,  43  G  St.  N.  W. 

'Phone,  1092. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 


SOUPS 


liNozu  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite,  and  health  on  both." 

Shakespeare. 

Soups  can  be  made  from  fresh  fish,  flesh  or  fowl,  vegetables, 
water  or  milk,  aud  from  odds  and  ends  of  all.  Have  always  on 
hand  whole  and  ground  spices,  sweet  herbs,  celery -seed,  parsley, 
onions,  carrots  and  turnips  ;  rice,  barley,  tapioca,  corn  starch 
and  flour  ;  thicken  and  enrich. 

In  seasoning  soup,  for  every  quart  of  water  use  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-eighth  as  much  black  pepper,  two  or  three  pepper-corns, 
a  pinch  of  celery-seed,  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  herbs,  loose  tea- 
spoonful  of  parsley,  half  a  pint  of  mixed  vegetables.  Vegetables, 
if  not  cooked  before,  go  in  with  the  meat.  First  fry  the  vegetables 
in  a  little  butter  ;  it  gives  a  "  tasty  "  flavor. 

In  making  stock,  use  a  quart  of  water  for  every  pound  of  meat 
and  bone.  Cut  the  meat  in  pieces,  crack  the  bcnes,  place  all 
in  the  kettle,  pour  over  it  the  proper  quantit}'  of  cold  water  ;  let 
it  soak  awhile  on  the  back  of  the  range  before  cooking.  Let  soup 
boil  slowly,  never  hard.  Some  tart  apple  is  good  in  soup.  When 
all  is  thoroughly  done,  strain  through  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth ;  do 
not  squeeze  the  cloth.  If  too  thick,  thin  before  using.  Soup 
stock  can  be  kept  several  days  in  cold  weather.  Put  the  vege- 
tables in  the  day  you  use  it ;  it  keeps  better  without  them.  Never 
let  the  fat  remain  on  your  soup.  Let  it  get  cold  and  lift  it  off;  or 
skim  it  off  if  hot. 

Soup  stock  can  be  made  clear  by  adding,  when  cold,  the  white 


2  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

and  shell  of  one  egg  for  each  quart  of  stock.  Set  it  on  the  fire 
and  stir  till  hot,  let  simmer  ten  minutes,  then  add  a  cup  of  cold 
water  and  strain  through  a  fine  strainer  or  napkin.  Serve  with 
lemon  shaved  thin,  croutons,  force-meat  balls,  or  hard  yolk  of 

egg- 
In  thickening  soups,  use  corn -starch  or  flour  rubbed  with  but- 
ter.    Add  catsup  or  sauces  just  before  using. 

The  fine  delicate  flavor  of  many  soups  you  have  eaten  was  pro- 
duced entirely  by  a  delicious  combination  of  seasonings.  Bou- 
quets of  herbs  for  flavoring  soups  are  made  by  tying  a  small  bay 
leaf,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  sprig  of  any  dry  sweet  herb  (except  sage) 
and  a  dozen  pepper  corns  in  the  midst  of  a  little  bunch  of  pars- 
ley leaves  and  winding  with  twine,  or  enclosing  it  in  a  tarletan 
bag. 

Asparagus  Soup. 

Take  a  knuckle  of  veal,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Boil  2  hours  with 
a  small  piece  of  salt  pork.  Take  2  or  3  bunches  of  asparagus  cut 
up  in  small  pieces,  and  put  all  but  the  heads  in  the  soup  ;  boil  1 
hour  longer,  then  strain  ;  return  to  the  fire  and  add  the  heads, 
boil  until  they  are  tender,  season  with  pepper,  serve  in  the  tureen 
with  toast. 

Beef  Soup. 

Boil  soup  bone  day  before  wanting  it ;  skim  grease  off  next 
day,  and  melt  jelly  ;  add  spices  to  taste,  little  brandy,  small  tea- 
cupful  of  butter  rubbed  in  browned  flour,  little  vermicelli,  and 
grated  carrot.  Boil  3  eggs  hard,  mash  smooth,  put  in  tureen,  and 
pour  soup  over  them. 

Bouillon. 

Six  pounds  of  beef  and  bone.  Cut  up  the  meat  and  break  the 
bones  ;  add  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  simmer  slowly  5  hours. 
Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  removing  every  particle  of  fat.  Sea- 
son only  with  pepper  and  salt. 


to! 


we  want  you  to  have  a 
look  at  our  stock  of  Boys'  Cloth- 
ing.    We  think  we  can  "stretch 
.  out"  your  dollars  for  you. 

SAKS  &  CO.,  Pa.  Ave.  &  7th  St. 


Gh"   "VST.    STORY 

HEADQUARTERS    FOR 

BUTTERINE 

In  K  St.  Market 

Also  Dealer  in  CANNED  GOODS  and  COTOSUET 

Stands  549  &  551.  Open  every  day. 


W.  D.  GLARK  &  GO., 

DEALERS  IN 

FIRST-CLASS  DRY  GOODS, 

No.  811  Market  Space,  Penn.  Avenue, 

WASHINGTON,   D.   C. 


J.  RICHARD  mm  &  BR8, 


712  K  Street  N.  W. 


DEALERS   IN 


Paint,  Oil,  Window  and  Looking  Glass. 

Gold  and  Silver  Bronze,  Floor  Stain,  Prince's  Metallic  Roof 
Paint.     Agents  for  Harrison  Bros.  Town  and  Coun- 
try Mixed  Paints,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


4  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Bean  Soup. 

Soak  a  quart  of  beans  over  night,  put  them  on  the  fire  next 
morning  with  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  about  1  pound  of  salt 
pork,  boil  three  hours.  Shred  into  it  a  head  of  celery,  add  pep- 
per ;  simmer  half  an  hour  longer.  Strain  through  a  colander, 
serve  hot. 

Consomme. 

(Mrs.  Rorer. ) 

Four  pounds  beef ;  1  ounce  suet ;  1  small  onion  ;  3  quarts  cold 
water  ;  4  cloves  ;  1  small  carrot ;  a  piece  of  celery  ;  1  egg  white. 

Cut  into  dice  four  pounds  of  lean  beef  from  the  round  :  put 
about  one  ounce  of  suet  and  one  small  onion,  sliced,  into  the 
soup-kettle  and  cook  until  a  good  brown  ;  then  add  the  meat, 
cook  without  covering  thirty  minutes  ;  add  the  cold  water,  cover 
the  kettle  and  simmer  gently  for  about  three  hours  ;  at  the  end  of 
this  time  add  the  cloves,  carrot,  a  piece  of  celery,  and  simmer 
one  hour  longer.  Strain  and  stand  away  to  cool.  When  cold, 
remove  all  grease  from  the  surface.  Turn  the  consomme  into  a 
kettle  ;  beat  the  white  of  egg  with  a  half-cupful  of  cold  water, 
add  it  to  the  boiling  consomme,  boil  one  minute  and  strain  through 
cheese-cloth.     Season,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Corn  Soup. 

Is  made  the  same  as  bean  soup.  Corn  and  beans  may  be  used 
together  and  make  a  very  nice  soup. 

Clam  Soup. 

Take  30  clams,  draw  off  the  liquor,  put  it  in  the  kettle  with  a 
quart  of  water  }4  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  When  it  boils  add  the 
clams,  boil  ]/z  an  hour,  then  add  2  pints  of  hot  milk,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  give  one  boil,  serve  hot. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  5 

Celery  Soup, 

Two  quarts  of  white  stock.  Wash  and  trim  3  heads  of  white 
celery.  Boil  until  tender  in  the  stock,  rub  through  a  sieve,  re- 
turn to  the  stock,  thicken  with  a  dessert  spoonful  of  corn  starch 
and  r  of  flour,  mixed  in  a  pint  of  milk.  Add  a  lump  of  butter, 
salt  to  taste,  and  serve  when  hot. 

Chicken  Vegetable  Soup. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 

Get  a  fat  hen.  After  washing,  put  it  whole  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  with  a  gallon  of  water  ;  boil  twt>  hours  ;  slice  3  or  4  Irish 
potatoes  ;  1  large  onion  ;  1  or  2  tablespooufuls  of  chopped  parsley; 
1  teaspoonful  celery-seed,  and  a  bit  of  summer  savory,  if  you 
have  it ;  }/2  red  pepper  pod,  salt  to  taste.  When  the  soup  has 
boiled  one  hour  add  the  vegetables,  and  when  nearly  done  put  in 
a  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

French  Soup. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

To  a  rich  broth  (for  six  persons),  add  3  eggs  ;  2  teaspoonfuls 
flour  ;  1  teacupful  milk. 

Beat  flour,  milk  and  eggs  together  and  pour  slowly  through  a 
small  sieve  into  the  boiling  broth,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley 
and  serve. 

Green  Pea  Soup. 

Put  2  quarts  green  peas  with  4  quarts  water,  boil  2  hours,  keep- 
ing steam  waste  supplied  by  fresh  boiling  water — strain  them 
from  liquor,  return  that  to  pot,  rub  the  peas  through  sieve,  chop 
an  onion  fine,  and  small  sprig  mint,  let  boil  10  minutes,  stir  a 
tablespoonful  flour  into  2  of  butter,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
stir  smoothly  into  boiling  soup.  Serve  wi.h  well  buttered  toasted 
bread. 


6  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Lobster  Soup. 

Three  pints  of  white  stock,  boil  up  and  thicken  with  a  little 
blended  flour ;  put  in  2  ounces  of  butter,  and  stir  in  gradually 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Add  half  a  tin  of  lobster,  let  stand  ten  min- 
utes to  keep  hot,  and  serve. 

Macaroni  Soup. 

Four  pounds  veal ;  4  quarts  cold  water  ;  x/z  pound  macaroni  \yi 
pint  cream. 

To  about  four  pounds  of  a  joint  of  veal  or  beef  which  must  be 
well  broken  up,  add  the  cold  water  and  set  to  boil.  Prepare  the 
macaroni  by  boiling  in  a  vessel  by  itself,  with  sufficient  water  to 
cover  it.  Add  a  small  piece  of  butter  to  the  macaroni,  when 
tender.  Strain  the  soup  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Then  add  the  macaroni  with  the  cream  and  celery  flavor. 

Noodle  Soup. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

A  chicken  ;  3  quarts  water  ;  1  onion  ;  bay  leaf;  chopped  pars- 
ley for  the  soup  ;  2  eggs  ;  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough  ;  1 
saltspoonful  salt  for  the  noodles. 

Put  the  chicken  in  the  cold  water,  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point: 
and  let  it  simmer  for  three  hours,  adding  the  onion,  bay  leaf  audi 
parsley   when   the   chicken   is    about  half  done.     Remove   the] 
chicken  when  thoroughly  cooked — which  may  be  served  as  boiled 
chicken  or  used  for  chicken  salad.     Add  the  noodles,  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

To  make  the  noodles,  beat  the  eggs  light,  add  the  flour,  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  dough,  knead  it  well,  roll  out  thin  as  a  wafer,  then 
roll  up  into  a  close  roll  and  cut  into  slices  about  an  eighth  of  an 
inch  thick  ;  spread  on  the  board  to  dry  for  an  hour  or  more.  If 
this  quantity  is  more  than  is  needed  for  the  soup,  it  will  keep  for 
several  days. 


C.    W.    DORMAIM, 

Washington  Homoeopathic  Pharmacy. 

(Successor  to  Boericke  &  Tafel.) 

1007  H  Street,  Northwest,  WASHINGTON,  D.  G. 


C.  M.  SMOOT 

Northwest  Corner  Third  and  E  Streets  Northeast, 

^r  JfariG^  (§if@Geities, 

©hoiee  IBeate;  Vegetables  and  'Emits. 

jfish  and   @^§teif§  in  §eas©n, 

B.  J.  Jmeu;ortr/y,  Jr., 
Fhncy  Groceries, 


136-138    K    ST.    MARKET 

Home-made  Mincemeat  and  Catsup  a  Specialty. 
OPBIT      lEVEIR,"^      WEEK-DAY. 


BRIGHTWOOD    DAIRY. 

fi.  <§.  w  s.  <§.  fi?0Giipt, 

DEALEBS       IltsT 

Fresh  Milk:  arid  Cream. 

Corner  of  loth  Street  and  Mass.  Avenue,  N.  W. 


8  THE  UNIVERSAL,  COOK-BOOK. 

Ox-Tail  Soup. 

An  ox-tail,  2  pounds  lean  beef,  4  carrots,  3  onions,  thyme  and 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  4  quarts  cold  water.  Cut  tail 
into  joints,  fry  brown  in  good  dripping.  Slice  onions  and  2  car- 
rots and  fry  in  the  same,  when  you  have  taken  out  the  pieces  of 
tail.  When  done  tie  them,  the  thyme  and  parsley  in  lace  bag, 
and  drop  into  the  soup  pot.  Put  in  the  tail,  then  the  beef  cut 
into  strips.  Grate  over  them  2  whole  carrots,  pour  over  all  the 
water  and  boil  slowly  4  hours  ;  strain  and  season  ;  thicken  with 
brown  flour  wet  with  cold  water  ;  boil  15  minutes  longer  and 
serve. 

Potato  Soup. 

(Emma  L,.  Hart.) 

Six  potatoes.  1  onion,  1  bunch  celery  cut  fine.  Boil  in  small 
quantity  water  till  tender,  pass  through  a  sieve,  add  2  quarts  boil- 
ing milk,  season  with  salt,  butter  and  pepper.  Add  1  egg  beaten 
stiff,  serve  hot. 

Pea  Soup. 

Split  peas,  one  quart,  two  pounds  salt  pork  ;  five  quarts  of 
water  ;  boil  five  hours  and  strain  through  sieve  hot. 

Potage  a  la  Heine. 

To  1  quart  stock  add  1  pint  sweet  cream  heated,  not  boiled, 
thicken  with  a  little  blended  Hour.  Add  )z  can  boiled  French 
peas  just  before  serving. 

Pot-Pourri. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

A  knuckle  of  veal ;  corn  cut  from  six  ears  ;  1  quart  okra ;  % 
peck  tomatoes,  skinned  and  cut  iuto  small  pieces ;  1  small  head 
cabbage  ;  2  onions  ;  2  carrots  ;  2  turnips  ;  thyme,  parsley  and 
summer  savory— all  chopped  fine. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  9 

Add  to  the  meat,  vegetables  aiid  herbs,  six  quarts  of  water, 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  .and  let  all  cook  slowly  for  three 
hours.     This  is  a  dinner  in  itself,  and  a  good  one. 

Tomato  Soup. 

One  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  two  tablespoon fuls  of  flour,  one  of 
butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  hot 
water,  (or  one  quart  of  soup  stock)  a  little  red  pepper.  Let  the 
tomato  and  stock,  (or  water,)  come  to  a  boil,  rub  flour,  butter  and 
a  little  of  the  tomato  together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  mixture. 
Strain  through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  retain  the  seeds.  Butter 
slices  of  stale  bread,  cut  in  small  squares,  place  in  a  tin  pan  but- 
tered side  up,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  with  the  soup. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Boil  a  calf's  liver  and  heart  with  a  knuckle  of  veal  for  three 
or  four  hours,  skimmiDg  well,  then  strain  off.  Chop  the  meat 
fine,  and  add  to  it  a  chopped  onion,  salt,  pepper  and  ground 
cloves  to  taste,  thickening,  if  necessary,  with  a  little  browned 
flour,  cookingagain  in  the  liquor.  Have  the  yolks  offourorfive 
hard  boiled  eggs  cut  up  for  the  tureen  ;  also  slices  of  lemon. 

Stock, 

4  pounds  of  beef  or  a  shin  of  beef,  1  gallon  of  cold  water  and  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Put  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  slowly 
come  to  a  boil,  and  keep  boiling  until  the  water  is  boiled  away  %.> 
strain  and  set  it  to  cool ;  when  cool  take  the  grease  off  the  top 
and  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  stock  will  keep  1  week  in  cold  weather. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 
MEMORANDA. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 
MEMORANDA. 


BROMO    PEPSIN 

is  the  onlv  sure  cure  for 
Headache  from  any  cause. 
10  cents  at  drug  stores. 

Prepared  by  F.  M.  ORISWELL. 

\GE8.  T.  BOSD, 

Confectioner     and     Caterer, 

510  Ninth  Street  Northwest, 

WASHINGTON,     D.     C. 


(Successors  to  J.  F.  Russell,) 

feaple  $•  Wanc^  (jS©Gei[ies, 

I]  LIE.  »'"»'*"  •""•"■%», 


Imported  Delicacies. 

COB.    lTI^TTH    A1TD    ZE3I    STS_,    2ST.    W. 


FSDS'S  UI1T,  Thomas  Sampson,  Proprietor 

No  1003  New  York  Avenue,  N.  W.,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Best  Quality  of  Milk  and  Cream,  Butter,  Eggs, 
and  Cottage  Cheese. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-HOOK.  13 


FISH  AND  SHELL  FISH. 

-   ''Master,  I  marvel  how  the  fishes  live  in  the  Sea  /" 
"  Why,  as  men  do  on  land ;  the  §;reat  ones  eat  up  the  little  ones." 

Pericles. 

How  to  select  Fish. 

Iu  selecting  fish  at  the  market  see  that  the  gills  are  red,  the 
eyes  full,  the  body  of  the  fish  firm,  and  the  fins  stiff. 

vSalt  mackerel  and  other  small  salt  fish  should  be  broiled. 
Small  pan  fish  and  steaks  of  large  white  dry  fish  are  good  fried. 
Fresh  salmon,  mackerel,  and  blue  fish  are  oily  fish  and  should, 
not  be  fried. ,  Boil  oily  fish  if  large — broil  them  if  small.  Cod, 
haddock,  blue  fish,  small  salmon,  bass,  and  shad  may  be  stuffed 
and  baked  whole. 

Serve  fish  with  bread  and  potatoes,  and  cucumbers,  if  in  sea- 
son. 

Cream  and  egg  sauces,  lobster,  oyster,  shrimp,  tartar  and  piq- 
uante  sauces  are  served  with  boiled  fish. 

Fry  fish  and  oysters  in  very  hot  salt  pork  fat.  Oil  is  better  but 
very  expensive. 

Fish  may  be  scaled  much  easier  by  dipping  into  boiling  water 
about  one  minute. 

Oysters  are  best  roasted  in  the  shell,  convex  side  downward  to 
hold  the  juices,  and  cooked  till  they  will  open  well. 

Baked  Shad. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 
Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced 


i4  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK  BOOK. 

onion,  some  chopped  parsley,  a  little  butter,  i  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  suet,  pepper  and  salt,  sage  and  a  beaten  egg.  Wet  with 
milk.  Stuff  the  fish  and  sew  or  tie  securely.  PI  ace  in  a  pan  with 
some  hot  water  ;  lay  pieces  of  salt  pork  on  top  with  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  bake,  basting  very  often. 

Fried  Blue  Fish  and  other  kinds. 

Clean,  wipe  dry,  inside  and  out.  Sprinkle  with  flour,  and  sea- 
son with  salt.  Fry  in  hot  butter  or  sweet  lard,  l/2  lard  and  yz 
butter  make  a  good  mixture  for  frying  fish.  The  moment  fish 
are  done  to  good  brown,  take  them  from  fat  and  drain  in  hot 
strainer ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

To  Fry  Brook  Trout  or  Any  Other  Small  Fish. 

Clean  fish,  and  let  them  lie  a  few  minutes  wrapped  singly  in 
clean  dry  towel  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  ;  roll  in  corn  meal, 
fry  in  %  butter  and  %  lard  ;  drain  on  sieve,  and  serve  hot. 

Broiled  Halibut. 

Slices  of  halibut,  salt,  pepper,  butter.  Cut  the  slices  offish 
about  an  inck  thick,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  lay  them 
in  melted  butter  l/2  hour,  allowing  3  tablespoon fuls  of  butter  to  a 
pound  of  fish,  then  roll  them  in  flour,  and  broil  about  20  min- 
utes.    Serve  very  hot. 

Boiled  Fish. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 
Sew  the  fish  in  thin  cloth  fitted  to  shape,  boil  in  salted    water 
(boiling  from  the  first)  allow  15  minutes  to  the  pound.     Unwrap 
and  pour  over  it  the  following  sauce. 

Sauce  For  Boiled  Fish. 

To  1  gill  boiling  water  add  as  much  milk  ;  stir  into  this  while 
boiling  2  tablespoonfuls  butter  gradually,  1  tablespoonful  flour 
wet  up  with  cold  water;  as  it  thickens,  the  chopped  yelk  of  1  boiled 
egg  and  1  raw  egg  beaten  light.     Take  directly  from  fire,  season 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  15 

with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  juice  of  1  lemon, 
and  set  covered  in  boiling  water  (but  not  over  fire)  5  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally.  Pour  part  of  sauce  over  fish  when  dished  ; 
the  rest  in  a  boat.     Serve  mashed  potatoes  with  it. 

Fish  Cutlets. 

Use  a  pint  of  cold  broiled  fish  ;  this  should  be  mixed  with  a 
cream  sauce  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  ;  when  this  mixture  is  quite 
cold  it  can  readily  be  made  iuto  croquettes.  These  should  be 
dipped  into  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  to  which  has  been  added 
just  a  little  water;  then  cover  them  with  bread  crumbs  ;  never 
use  fine  crumbs  for  frying  :  the  coarse  crumbs  act  as  a  sponge  in 
absorbing  the  fat,  and  thus  leave  the  croquettes  perfectly  dry, 
as  they  should  be  ;  you  would  be  surprised  to  know  how  little 
fat  is  required  for  frying  ;  it  requires  only  a  few  moments  to 
brown  the  cutlets  in  the  fat. 

Cream  Fish. 

Three  pounds  haddock,  1  pint  of  cream,  l/z  pound  of  butter,  1 
tablespoonful  of  flour.  Boil  your  fish  with  plenty  of  salt  in  the 
water.  When  cooked,  skin  it  and  takeout  all  the  bones.  Flake 
with  a  fork.  Heat  the  cream,  season  it,  and  put  y2  large  onion 
in  it.  Beat  your  butter  and  flour  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  mix- 
ture, boiling  fifteen  minutes.  Butter  a  large  baking  dish,  put  in 
a  layer  of  fish  and  one  of  dressing,  making  sure  to  have  the 
dressing  on  top.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs,  putting  small  pieces 
of  butter  on  top  and  brown  nicely.  Milk  will  do  as  well  as  cream 
if  it  is  rich. 

*  Mayonaise  Fish. 

Take  a  pound  or  so  of  cold  boiled  fish  (halibut  or  cod),  cut  into 
small  pieces ;  then  make  the  dressing  as  follows  :  the  yolks  of 
2  boiled  and  2  raw  eggs  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  salad  oil; 
add  to  these,  salt,  pepper,  a  very  little  mustard,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  white  sugar,  and  lastly  6  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  ;   beat  the 


16  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

mixture  until  light,  and  just  before  pouring  it  over  the  fish  stir 
in  lightly  the  frothed  white  of  a  raw  Qgg.  Serve  the  fish  in  a  dish 
with  lettuce  leaves  around  the  edges  ;  half  of  the  sauce  mixed 
with  the  fish,  the  rest  thrown  over  the  top . 

Cod  Fish  Stew. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 

Cut  up  into  inch  pieces,  allowing  }4  teacupful  to  a  pint  of  milk. 
Put  on  the  stove  in  a  stew  pan  or  spider,  well  covered  with  cold 
water.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  diain  and  pour  in  a  pint  or 
quart  of  milk,  according  to  size  of  family.  When  hot,  thicken 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  made  smooth  with  cold  milk  or 
water.  An  egg  broken  in  and  stirred  rapidly  at  the  last  is  an  im- 
provement. Season  with  a  teaspoon  ful  of  butter.  Serve  with 
baked  potatoes. 

Codfish  Balls. 

(Mrs.  H.  S.  B.) 

A  pound  of  firm  white  salt  codfish,  6  medium-sized  potatoes,  % 
a  teacup  of  milk,  i  egg,  a  full  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Put  the 
fish  in  cold  water  and  let  it  steep  twenty  minutes  on  the  fire. 
Drain  off  the  water,  and  pour  on  boiling  water,  letting  it  steep 
until  it  is  sufficiently  freshened.  When  cold,  pick  the  fish  into 
fine  shreds  with  a  fork,  removing  the  skin  and  bones.  Mash 
the  potatoes,  which  must  be  fresh  boiled,  with  the  butter,  add  the 
milk  and  beaten  egg  and  a  little  pepper,  lastly  the  picked  fish. 
Drop  the  mixture  from  a  spoon  into  boiling  lard.  Never  use 
flour  in  making  up  the  balls. 

Fish  Chowder. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Five  pounds  of  fish  cut  in  steaks,  i  chopped  onion,  4 
chopped  potatoes,  }&  pound  of  salt  pork,  chopped.  Put  the  pork 
and  onions  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  let  them  fry  brown,  then 


ROSE1  COTTAGE. 

Situated  on  St.  Patrick's  Bay,  three-fourths  mile  North 
)f  Colton's  Point,  Md.  Open  to  visitors  for  season  of 
1895,  on  May  1st. 

A  fine  Orchard  of  choice  fruits.  Water  is  supplied  by  a 
jalvanized  Steel  Tower  and  Pump.  No  chills  nor  mos- 
juitoes.  Bathing  is  safe  and  convenient.  Oysters,  fish 
md  crabs  are  abundant. 

Visitors  met  by  a  conveyance  at  boat.  Address  all  the 
inquiries  to  the  undersigned,  138  B  St.,  N.  E.,  until  May 
1st  thereafter,  Colton's  Point,  Md. 


ADAM  FISHER, 
Proprietor. 


EDW.  S.  SCHMID, 

DEALER  IN 

Singing  Birds,  Fine  Breed  Fowl,  Gages,  Pet  Animals,  Dog  and 
Bird  Foods,  Medicines,  etc, 

712  12th  Street,  N.  W.,  Branch  Store,  1221  Pa.  Ave.  N.  W. 


T.  JARVIS, 

OONFRCTIONER   AND   GA/rBREIR, 

Ice  Cream  and  Ices.  426  9th  St.,  N.  W. 

Ladies'   and  Gentlemen's  Cafe  open  till  11  P.  M. 
Personal  attention  given  to  serving  Weddings,  Receptions,  &c. 


iS  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

put  a  layer  of  fish,  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  then 
layer  of  potatoes,  and  so  on  until  the  ingredients  are  used.  Poun 
on  3  quarts  of  water  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Soak  yi  dozen 
crackers  in  a  pint  of  milk  in  the  tureen  and  pour  the  chowder 
over  them. 

Clam  chowder  is  made  in  the  same  way,  using  25  chopped 
clams,  no  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup. 

Sauce  For  Salmon  and  Other  Fish. 

One  cupful  milk  heated  to  a  boil  and  thickened  with  tablespoon- 
ful corn  starch  previously  wet  up  with  cold  water,  the  liquori 
from  the  salmon,  :  great  spoonful  butter,  1  raw  egg  beaten  light, 
juice  yi  lemon,  mace  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Add  the  eggt 
to  thickened  milk  when  you  have  stirred  in  butter  and  liquor  ; 
take  from  fire,  season  and  let  stand  in  hot  water  3  minutes,  cov- 
ered. Lastly  put  in  lemon  juice  and  turn  out  immediately. 
Pour  it  all  over  and  around  the  salmon . 

Oyster  Short  Cake. 

(Mrs.  Parker). 

Make  a  good  short  cake  and  ba  ke  on  pie-plates,  put  a  quart  o\\ 
oysters  on  a  stove  with  a  little  water,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  2  table 
spoonfuls  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  thicken  with  at  ablespoonful  ol 
flour.  When  the  cakes  are  baked,  split  and  spread  the  oysters 
between  and  some  on  top. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Select  the  largest  and  drain  them  on  a  cloth,  then  dip  them  it 
rolled  crackers ;  fry  in  either  butter  or  lard  until  they  are  a  nice 
brown,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Steamed  Oysters. 

Select  large  oysters,  drain  and  place  in  steamer  over  kettle  oi 
boiling  water.  When  done,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  anc 
serve  hot  on  soft  buttered  toast. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  19 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

(Mrs.  M.  C.  Currier.) 

Butter  au  eartheu  pudding  dish,  and  fill  with  alternate  layers 
of  crushed  crackers  and  oysters — the  first  layers  should  be  the 
crushed  crackers — wet  them  with  a  mixture  of  the  oyster  liquid 
and  milk.  Then  a  layer  of  oysters,  which  sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  small  bits  of  butter  the  size  of  walnuts.  Let  the  top 
layer  be  of  crumbs,  and  to  pour  over  it,  and  put  bits  of  butter 
over  it      Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

Panned  Oysters. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  on  a  frying  pan,  brown  and 
add  one  quart  of  dry  oysters.  When  partly  cooked  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  blended  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 

Pickled  Oysters. 

(Mrs.  H.  D.  Bates.) 

200  oysters,  i}4  pints  white  vinegar,  5  dozen  whole  cloves,  5 
dozen  whole  peppers,  1  teaspoonful  whole  mace,  salt  to  taste. 
Pick  the  oysters  clean,  pat  in  a  saucepan,  strain  their  liquor  over 
them,  scald  not  boil  them.  Take  out  the  oysters,  add  the  vine- 
gar and  spices  to  the  liquor  and  boil.  When  cold  pour  over  the 
oysters. 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets, 

Take  as  many  large  oysters  as  are  wished,  wash  and  dry  them 
thoroughly  with  a  clean  towel.  Have  some  fat  bacon  cut  in  very 
thin  slices,  cover  each  oyster  with  them,  and  pin  on  with  wooden 
toothpicks.  Broil  or  roast  them  until  the  bacon  is  crisp  and 
brown.     Do  not  remove  toothpicks.     Serve  hot. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

To  ]/z  tablespoonful  butter,  melted  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  flour.     Cook  a  few  moments  and  stir  in  gradu- 


2o  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK  BOOK. 

ally  i  cup  hot  milk.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  i  teaspoonful 
celery  salt.  Wash  and  pick  over  carefully  one  pint  fine  oysters, 
boil  them  in  their  own  liquor  until  plump,  drain,  and  pour  over 
them  the  sauce. 

Roast  Oysters  on  Toast. 

Toast  some  slices  of  bread.  Wash  and  wipe  some  large  fine 
oysters,  spread  as  many  as  possible  on  each  slice  of  toast,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  a  hot  oven 
until  the  edges  of  the  oysters  curl.     Serve  at  once. 

Oyster  Pie. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

100  oysters,  drained  from  the  liquor ;  3  hard-boiled  eggs  ;  2 
ounces  butter  ;  l/2  cup  bread  crumbs,  crumbled  fine  ;  pepper,  salt 
and  powdered  mace. 

Line  sides  of  a  dish  with  pie  crust,  but  not  the  bottom  ;  then  to 
each  layer  of  oysters  sprinkle  some  of  the  mixture.  Continue 
this  until  the  dish  is  full ;  then  cover  with  crust  and  bake  in  a 
good  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

Oyster  or  Clam  Fritters, 

\]/2  pints  of  milk,  \%  pounds  of  flour,  4  eggs  beaten  separately. . 
Clams  must  be  chopped  small,  oysters  whole.  Drop  from  spoon 
into  hot  fat. 

Scallops. 

Swell  them  in  water  over  night ;  in  the  morning  dry  them  in  a 
cloth,  dip  in  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  brown. 

Fricasseed  Lobster. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  nut- 
meg. Put  in  a  stew-pan  with  enough  water  to  cover  it.  Keep 
the  lid  close  and  stew. 


The  Microscope  i 


A  Doixar  Magazine  for  Everybody. 
In  this  age  of  progress  (and  of  humbug)  almost  every 
article  of  food  is  at  times  adulterated.  Any  lady  can 
learn  how  to  detect  these  adulterations  with  the  micro- 
scope. Take  this  magazine  and  begin  to  study  the 
subject. 

MICROSCOPICAL  PUBLISHING   CO., 

WASHINGTON,    I).    C. 

COIR,.    lOTH    J^ISTJD    X    STS.3    ZLT.    "W\ 
Choice  Beef,  Lamb,  Veal,  Pork,  Poultry,  Cream- 
ery Butter,  Fish,    Fruits,    Preserves,    Vegetables, 
and  everything  pertaining  to  a  first-class  market 
store. 
FINEST    QUALITY;  LOWEST    PRICES. 


MRS.  C.  W.  SMILEY, 

CRAYON  ARTIST, 
943  MASS.  AVE.,  N.  W. 


SAMUEL    FENTON, 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealer  in  

BEEf,  *  /Tyj550|i  *  C/tyT)B 

305  &  307  NORTHERN  LIBERTY  MARKET. 


22  THE  UNIVERSAL    COOK-BOOK. 

Lobster  Croquettes. 

Chop  the  meat  of  a  boiled  lobster  very  fine,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  add  bread  crumbs,  moisten  with  melted  butter,  make 
into  cakes,  dip  them  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  brwon  in  butter  or  lard.  Croquettes  may  be 
made  of  cold  fish,  poultry  or  veal.  # 

Fried  Oysters. 

(Mrs.  M.  C.  Currier,) 

For  every  egg  required  add  two  tablespoon fuls  olive  oil  and 
one  of  water,  drain  and  dry  your  oysters,  roll  in  finely  powdered 
bread  crumbs,  now  dip  in  the  egg  mixture,  then  cracker  crumbs, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  in  as  little  butter  as  possible 
keeping  oysters  separated. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg— No.  1. 

(Mrs.  M.  J.  Currier.) 

Cut  the  meat  of  two  lobsters  into  inch  squares.  Mash  fine  the 
yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  adding  gradually  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream  or  milk,  put  %  pound  of  butter  iuto  a  sauce  pan, 
add  two  tablesp  onfuls  of  flour,  mix  and  add  yz  pint  of  milk  or 
cream.  Stir  until  ready  to  boil  but  do  not  boil,  add  yolks  of  eggs 
and  lobster,  stand  over  boiliug  water  till  lobster  is  heated,  then 
add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg    No  2. 

(E.J.  F.) 

One  large  lobster,  i  tablespoon  butter,  i  gill  wine,  3  eggs,  l/z 
pint  cream.  Cut  meat  lobster  into  small  slices,  put  into  chafing 
dish  with  butter,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  the  wine 
over  it ;  cook  10  minutes.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  the 
cream.     Let  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  immediately. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  23 

Creamed  Salmon. 

(E.  J.  F.) 

Oiie  round-can  salmon;  1  teaspoonful  salt;  1  tablespoouful 
hopped  parsley,  juice  half  lemon,  a  little  cayenne;  one  cup 
nilk  or  cream,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
^hop  the  salmon  fine,  free  it  from  bone  etc.,  add  salt,  cayenne, 
parsley,  lemon  juice  and  mix  thoroughly,  cream  butter  and 
lour  together.  Pour  onto  it  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  and  cook  a 
■mute  until  quite  thick  Season  slightly  ;  mix  this  well  with 
;he  salmon.  Put  into  individual  shells,  cover  lightly  with  bread 
rumbs,  and  bake  twenty  minutes.     Serve  immediately. 

Clam  Chowder. 

(Mrs.  J.  M.  Welty.) 

Thirty  clams,  chopped ;  >2  dozen  ordinary  sized  potatoes, 
chopped;  1  can  corn;  1  can  tomatoes;  1  onion,  size  of  walnut. 
Teaspoonful  of  sage.  Butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add 
liquor  of  clams  and  gallon  of  water.  When  above  has  cooked, 
add  1  pint  sweet  milk,  and  let  whole  boil.  This  recipe  makes 
a  big  pot  full. 

Deviled  Crabs. 

(Mrs.  Rorer). 

12  nice  heavy  crabs  ;  y2  pint  cream  ;  2  tablespoonfuls  flour  ;  '+ 
grated  nutmeg  ;  4  egg  yolks,  boiled  hard  ;  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt,  butter  and  chopped  parsley  ;  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 

Put  the  crabs  in  warm  water  ;  add  the  salt  and  put  the  kettle 
over  a  brisk  fire.  Boil  30  minutes.  Take  up  and  drain  ;  break 
off  all  claws;  separate  the  shells;  remove  the  spongy  fingers 
and  the  stomach,  which  is  found  under  the  head.  Pick  out  all 
the  meat.  Put  the  cream  on  to  boil,  rub  butter  and  flour  togeth- 
er, and  add  to  the  boiling  cream  ;  stir  and  cook  two  minutes. 
Take  from  the  fire,  add    the   crab  meat,  the  egg  yolks  mashed 


24  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

fine,  parsley,  nutmeg,  salt  aud  cayenne.  Clear  the  upper  shells 
of  the  crabs,  fill  them  with  the  mixture,  brush  over  with  beaten 
egg,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  put  iu  a  quick  oven  to  brown; 
or  better,  put  them  iu  a  frying  basket  and  plunge  into  boiling 
Cottolene  until  a  nice  brown.  • 

Fried  Smelts. 

(Mrs.  Rorer.) 

A  person  who  has  once  fried  smelts  in  Cottolene,  will  never 
under  any  circumstances  use  lard. 

Make  a  slight  opening  at  the  gills,  then  draw   them  between 
the  thumb  and  finger,  beginning  at  the  tail.     This  will  press  out 
all  the  inside.     Now  dip  them  first  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  iu  very  hot  Cottolene.     Drain,  dust  with  salt  and  I 
serve  smoking  hot  with  following  sauce. 

Tartar  Sauce. 

(Juliet  Corson.) 

One  egg  yolk;  i  level  teaspoonful  mustard,  dry;  i  level  teaspoon- 
ful  salt;  cayenne  pepper;  i  gill  salad  oil;  3  tablespoon fuls- 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar  ;  1  tablespoonful  each  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, capers  and  gherkins  ;    1  teaspoonful  chopped  onions. 

Put  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg  into  a  bowl  with  the  mustard,  saltt 
and  as  much  cayenne  pepper  as  can  be  taken  upon  the  point  oft 
a  small  penknife  blade;  stir  these  ingredients  with  a  woodeni 
salad  spoou  until  they  are  smooth  ;  then  add  a  few  drops  at  ai 
time,  the  oil  and  lemon  juice,  stirring  quickly  all  the  time.  When 
the  sauce  is  thick  and  smooth,  add  the  chopped  parsley,  capers 
aud  gherkins  aud  onion  ;  the  onion  must  be  very  finely  chopped. 
Keep  cool  until  wanted  for  use. 

Stewed  Terrapin. 

(Mrs.  Rorer.) 
-  Two  terrapins  ;   '•>  pint  thick  cream  ;  6  eggs  ;  l/2  pound  butter  ;  1 


LAVENDER  &  ROTT, 

PRODUCE    DEALERS, 

Stalls :  301. 302,  and  303  Centre  MarM, 


L.    A.    DELLWIG, 

GROCER  and  PROVISION   DEALER, 

Cor-  2d  and  Mass-  Ave-  and  D  Sts-,  N-  E 

Home  Roasted  Coffee,  Home  Dressed  Meats,  Fresh  Vegetables. 
Full  line  canned  goods.     Goods  as  represented 

or   MONEY   REFUNDED. 


BIK£R  "The  Butter  Ma" 

Can  db  found  in  all  the  principal  Markets. 

PRICES    3VLOIDEE,A.a?E. 


3.  P.  V.  IHS 1 


DEALER  IN 


f  LOUl^   /\N^   f EH1S), 


** — - 


NO.    1831    SEVENTH    STREET,  N.     W. 

25 


26  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK- BOOK. 

gill  sherry  or  Madeira  wine  ;  %  teaspoonful  mace  ;  salt  and  cay- 
enne to  taste. 

Put  the  terrapins  alive  in  boiling  water  and  boil  10  or  15  min- 
utes, or  until  you  can  pull  off  the  outer  skin  and  the  toe  nails; 
put  them  back  in  fresh  boiling  water  ;  add  a  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  boil  slowly  until  the  shells  part  easily  and  the 
flesh  on  the  legs  is  quite  tender.  When  done,  take  out,  remove 
the  under  shell  and  let  stand  until  cool  enough  to  handle.  Then 
take  thick,  heavy  part  of  the  intestines,  and  the  gall  sacks,  which 
are  found  imbedded  in  one  lobe  of  the  liver,  and  throw  them 
away.  In  removing  the  gall  sack,  be  careful  not  to  break  it,  as 
it  would  spoil  the  whole  terrapin.  Break  the  terrapin  in  con- 
venient si^ed  pieces  ;  cut  the  small  intestines  into  tiny  pieces  and 
add  to  the  meat ;  now  add  the  liver  broken  up,  also  all  eggs 
found  in  the  terrapins.  Now  put  into  a  stewing-pan  with  the 
juice  it  has  given  out  while  being  cut.  Roll  the  butter  in  flour, 
add  it  to  the  terrapin  and  stand  in  a  very  moderate  fire  until 
heated.  Boil  the  6  eggs  for  15  minutes  ;  take  out  yolks  ;  mash  to 
a  soomth  paste  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  wine,  then  add  this, 
the  cream  and  seasoning  to  the  terrapin ;  let  it  boil  up  once  ; 
take  from  fire,  add  wine  and  serve.  It  must  never  be  boiled 
after  adding  wine.     Add  more  or  less  wine  to  taste. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  27 

MEMORANDA. 


THE  RECIPES  IN  THIS  BOOK  CAN  BE  MOST  SAT- 
ISFACTORILY FILLED 

BY  TRADING  WITH  THE 

EirielBiifCnpai;. 

The  Largest  and  most  Complete  Provision 
Markets  in  the  District. 

MAIN   MARKET    AND   GROCERY, 

1306-1312  32D  Street. 

BRANCH  MARKETS: 

3057  M  Street,  N.  W.  I   5th  and  I  Streets,  N.  W. 

21st,  and  K  Streets,  N.  W.  j    209  Indiana  Ave.,  N.  W. 

20th  St.  and  Pa.  Ave.,  N.  W.  1718  14th  Street,  N.  W. 

13th  St.  and  N.  Y.  Ave.,  N.  W.   j    14th  and  V  Streets,  N.  W. 
8th  and  M  Sts.,  N.  W.  !   4th  and  I  vStreets,  N.  W. 

RHONE   3^T. 

28 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  29 


MEATS 


4 '  And  now  we  ask  what  nob/e  meat  and  drink, 
Can  help  to  make  man  work,  to  make  him  think. ' ' 

When  cutting  meat  to  cook,  always  cut  across  the  grain  of  the 
muscle. 

Never  wash  fresh  meat  before  roasting  ;  scrape  it,  if  necessary 
to  clean  it.  If  it  has  been  wet  or  moist,  wipe  it  thoroughly  dry 
before  cooking. 

Never  put  meat  directly  on  the  ice  ;  put  it  in  a  vessel  on  ice. 

If  you  baste  roast  meat,  do  not  use  salt  in  the  basting. 

Salt  and  season  boiling  meats  while  cooking. 

In  boiling,  put  fresh  meats  in  hot  water,  and  salt  meats  in  cold 
water ;  boil  both  slowly. 

Never  salt  and  pepper  boiling  meats  while  cooking.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  after  removing  from  the  gridiron. 

An^ordinary  pan  is  good  for  boiling ;  heat  very  hot  ;  use  no 
fat  of  any  kind  ;  put  the  meat  flat  on  the  pan,  turn  rapidly  and 
often,  and  you  will  find  a  "  pan  broil  "  very  good  ;  season  when 
done. 

A  pod  of  red  pepper  in  the  water  will  prevent  the  unpleasant 
odor  of  boiling  from  filling  the  house.  The  garnishes  for  meats 
are  parsley,  slices  of  lemon,  sliced  carrot,  sliced  beets  and  cur- 
rent jelly. 

Time-table  for  Meats. 

Aquarter  of  lamb  will  roast  in  an  hour. 


30  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

A  loin  of  veal  will  take  two  or  three  hours. 
A  loin  of  mutton  will  roast  in  two  hours. 

A  leg  of  mutton  requires  from  two  to  three  hours,  according  to 
size. 

A  small  turkey  will  boil  in  one  and  a  quarter  hours  ;  medium 
in  two  hours  ;  large  in  two  and  a  half  or  three  hours. 

A  beef  tongue  should  be  soaked  for  several  hours,  put  in  cold 
water  and  boiled  slowly  four  or  five  hours. 

A  large  ham  should  boil  four  hours,  a  small  one  two  hours,  and 
be  put  on  in  cold  water. 

Corned  beef  or  pickled  pork  requires  to  be  boiled  longer  than 
smoked  meat.  It  should  be  cooked  until  the  bones  come  out 
easily.  To  tender  salt  meats,  add  a  little  vinegar  to  the  boiling 
water. 

Roast  beef  requires  15  minutes  to  the  pound. 

How  to  Roast  Beef. 

If  the  housekeeper,  who  asks  how  she  can  have  her  roast  beef 
brown  on  the  outside  and  rare  and  juicy  within,  will  put  her  beef 
in  a  very  hot  oven  at  first,  keeping  the  temperature  as  high  as 
three  hundred  and  fifty  degrees  or  more  for  half  an  hour,  then 
reducing  the  heat  to  about  two  hundred  and  fifty  degrees  for  the 
remainder  of  the  time  of  cooking,  she  will  attain  the  desired  re- 
sult. Of  course  the  meat  must  be  basted  as  often  as  every  fifteen 
minutes.  The  great  heat  at  first  hardens  as  well  as  browns  the 
surface  of  the  piece  of  meat.  This  keeps  in  the  juices.  But  if 
the  high  temperature  be  continued,  the  hardening  process  goes 
beyond  the  surface,  and  the  result  will  be  a  hard,  dry  and 
stringy  piece  of  meat.     Salt  when  done. 

Roast  Beef. 

Rib  roast  is  best.  Have  butcher  saw  off  about  %  bone.  Cut 
ends  of  ribs  clear  of  meat ;   fold  flap  neatly  around  to  thick  part 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  31 

and  secure  with  skewers.  The  trimmings  are  yours.  As  meat 
is  weighed  first,  take  it  all — will  make  good  material  for  soup  or 
gravy.  Put  beef  in  dripping  pan  ;  pour  little  boiling  water  over 
it.  Rub  a  little  salt  into  fat  parts ;  roast  10  minutes  for  every 
pound.  If  meat  has  much  fat  on  top  cover  fatty  portion  with 
paste  made  of  flour  and  water.  When  nearly  done  remove  this, 
dredge  beef  with  flour,  baste  well  with  gravy.  Sprinkle  salt 
over  top  and  serve.  Pour  fat  from  gravy,  return  to  fire,  thicken 
with  browned  gravy,  season  and  boil  up  once.  A  roast  should 
always  be  served  with  the  following  : 

English  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

One  half  pound  of  flour,  1  pint  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  Baking  Powder.  Mix  well  together  the  baking  pow- 
der, flour  and  salt,  then  add  one-half  the  milk,  and  beat  until 
perfectly  smooth  ;  then  add  remainder  of  the  milk.  Melt  some 
butter  or  dripping  in  a  flat  tin,  pour  in  the  batter,  place  a  joint 
of  beef  or  mutton  on  it,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Pot  Roast. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F). 

Take  any  piece  of  fresh  beef,  lay  in  a  flat-bottomed  pot  with  2 
good-sized  onions  ;  cover  with  boiling  water  even  with  top  of 
meat ;  cover  the  pot  tightly,  and  let  stew  slowly  until  the  water 
is  evaporated  ;  then  turn  the  meat  once  or  twice,  watching,  when 
it  begins  to  brown,  that  it  does  not  burn.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, etc.,  to  taste. 

Pot  Roast. 

Take  a  lean  piece  of  beef.  Cut  a  little  fat  from  it  and  fry  in 
an  iron  pot  a  few  minutes.  Season  the  beef,  and  sprinkle  over  a 
little  flour ;  put  in  the  pot  and  fry  brown  on  all  sides.  Pour  in 
hot  water  to  half  cover  the  beef,  cover  tightly  and  cook  until 
tender.     Add  a  little  boiling  water  at  intervals  to  prevent  burn- 


32  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

ing.     Thicken   the  gravy,    and    pour    around  the  meat  on  the 
platter. 

Beef  Stew  with  Dumplings. 

Two  pounds  lean  beef,  cut  into  inch  squares,  sprinkled  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  2  tablespoon fuls  of  flour.  Cut  fat  from  meat 
into  small  bits,  put  in  stew  pan  and  fry  ten  minutes.  Cut  1  on- 
ion, 2  slices  carrot,  2  small  turnips  in  small  dice  and  fry  in  hot 
fat  for  ten  minutes.  Put  in  the  meat  and  fry  till  it  browns,  stir- 
ring to  prevent  burning,  then  pour  over  one  large  quart  hot 
water,  and  set  on  stove  where  it  will  simmer  gently  two  and  one- 
half  hours.  Then  add  2  sliced  potatoes,  boil  ten  minutes,  then 
put  in  dumplings  and  boil  hard  ten  minutes  without  lifting  the 
cover. 

Dumplings  1  pint  flour,  2  teaspooni'uls  of  Baking  Powder, 
l/2  teaspoouful  salt,  %  cup  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  wet  with 
1  small  cup  milk.  Roll  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  with  biscuit  cut- 
ter.    Veal  or  mutton  stew  can  be  made  the  same  as  beef. 

Stewed  Beef. 

Take  the  desired  quantity  of  round  beef,  cut  into  three  ounce 
pieces,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Fry  in  the  stew  pan  some  beef 
drippings  and  a  sliced  onion.  Put  in  the  meat,  and  fry  well  stir- 
ring constantly  ten  minutes.  Then  add  gradually  enough  water 
to  cover  the  meat,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  teaspoouful  each 
allspice,  cloves  and  mace,  a  bay  leaf,  and  a  sliced  lemon.  L,et  it 
simmer  gently  four  hours. 

Beef's  Tongue  Boiled. 

(Marion  Harland. ) 

Wash  a  large,  perfectly  fresh  tongue  in  three  waters.  Then 
cover  well  with  boiling  water  ;  a  little  salt— plenty  of  it— and 
cook  about  twelve  minutes  to  the  pound.  Strip  off  the  skin  ; 
dish,  when  you  have  trimmed  away  the  root,  pour  over  it  the  fol- 
lowing sauce  :  Strain  a  cup  of  the   liquor  in  which  the    tongue 


NATIONAL  CAPITAL  ICE  CO. 

BE A LEES  IN 

K^ENNErBErG     ICE 

Branch  Oice  and  Depot,  8th  St.  Wharf  1  f . 

BRANCH  DEPOT  :    0  St.  Market,  Cor.  7th  &  0  Sts.N,  W. 


0e;©r(!re  $.  Psrrie, 


DEALER  IN 

kg 


K»m  BM@R  MRB,  *c. 

Stalls  256  and  355,  Northern  Liberty  Market. 
L  Street  Entrance.       Market  Every  Day. 


CHflS.  F.  PLITT, 

FINE    SILVERWARE. 
Gri-adiiate  Optician. 

1308  Seventh  Street,  Northwest,  between  N  and  0. 

SPECIAL  ATTENTION  GIVEN  TO  REPAIRING  OF  ALIv  KINDS 


W.  S.  DETWILER 


FINE 
GRADES 
OF 


BtJTTEH  A  CHEESE, 

496-497  Centre  Market,       19  -  O  St.,   Market. 
I^C^IRI&CIETIIISrGr       DELIVERED. 

33 


34  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK  . 

was  boiled  ;  set  cr^er  the  fire,  arid  stir  iii  2  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter cut  up  in  flour,  pepper  to  taste  ;  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and! 
when  this  has  thickened,  2  small  pickled  cucumbers,  chopped. 
This  is  a  dish  whose  merits  deserve  to  be  better  known. 

Braised  Beef. 

(Miss  Parloa.) 

Take  six  or  eight  pounds  of  the  round,  and  lard  with  )i  of  a, 
pound  of  salt  pork.  Put  6  slices  of  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the( 
braising  pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  fry  add  2  onions,  m 
small  carrot,  and  y2  small  turnip,  all  cut  fine.  Cook  these  untili 
they  begin  to  brown  ;  then  draw  them  to  one  side  of  the  pan  anc 
put  in  the  beef  which  has  been  well  dredged  with  salt,  pepper 
and  flour.  Brown  on  all  sides,  and  then  add  1  quart  of  boiling 
water  and  a  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs  ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  ii 
the  oven  for  four  hours,  basting  every  twenty  minutes.  Take 
up,  and  finish  the  gravy  as  for  braised  tongue,  or,  add  to  tho 
gravy  l/2  can  tomatoes  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Strain,  pouj 
around  the  beef  and  serve. 

To  Lard. 

(Miss  Parloa.) 

Larding  is  a  simple  operation.     The  pork  should  be  firm    am 
young  (salt  of  course).     Cut  thin,  even  slices  parallel  with  thl 
rind,  and  cut  these  in  long,  narrow  strips  that  will  fit  into  thl 
needle.     For  beef,  veal,  turkey  or  chicken  the  strips  should  b1 
about  as  large  round  as  a  lead  pencil,  and  about  three  and  on 
half  inches  long  ;  and  for  birds,  chops  and  sweet  breads  the 
should  be  about  as  large  round  as  a  match.     Three  slices  are  a 
that  can  be  cut  from  one  piece  of  pork,  because  when  you  g 
more  than  an  inch  away  from  the  rind  the  pork  is  so  tender  th; 
it  will  break  when  in  the  needle.     Put  the  strips  in  a  bowl 
broken  ice  to  harden.     Have  the  meat  free  from  skin  andgristl 
if  beef  or  veal.     Put  a  strip,  also  called  a  lardoon,  into  the  need 
as  far  as  it  will  20.    Push  the  needle  through  the  meat,  leavir 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  35 

about  three-quarters  of  au  inch  of  the  strip  exposed  at  both  sides . 
Continue  until  there  are  a  number  of  rows  on  the  top  of  the  meat. 

Spiced  Beef. 

(Auntie  Gregory.) 

Chop  tough  beefsteak  (raw)  and  piece  of  suet  size  of  an  egg 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  summer  savory.  Add  2 
eggs>  %  pt«  bread  crumbs,  4  or  5  tablespoons  cream  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter.  Mix  and  work  in  roll,  with  enough  flour  to  keep 
together,  and  bake  in  a  pan  (with  a  little  butter  and  water)  like 
a  roast.     Slice  when  cold. 

Potted  Beef. 

The  beef  well  boiled,  all  the  fat  taken  off,  chop  very  fine,  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  allspice  and  a  little  sage.  Melt  butter 
enough  to  knead  it  well  together.  Pack  it  closely  in  bowls  and 
pour  melted  butter  over  it.     It  will  keep  a  week  in  cool  weather. 

Broiled  Beef  Steak. 

Cut  the  steak  about  an  inch  in  thickness  if  you  like  it  rare,  and 
broil  it  over  a  quick  fire  until  it  is  browned  on  both  sides.  It 
should  be  turned  often  while  broiling  to  prevent  burning  and  to 
save  the  juice.  Use  a  wire  grating.  Grooved  gridirons  recom- 
mended to  save  the  gravy,  should  never  be  used  ;  for  the  gravy 
or  juice  of  the  meat  should  not  be  allowed  to  escape  the  meat 
until  after  it  is  dished.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  after  it  is 
lone,  and  lay  your  butter  cold  on  the  steak,  set  it  in  the  oven  a 
minute  or  two  until  it  is  melted: 

Beef  Steak  and  Potatoes. 

(Mrs.  Fuller.) 

Take  a  large  and  tender  steak,  bone  it,  and  scatter  over  it  bits 
pf  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  sage  and  finel}'  chopped 
[  anions.  Over  that  spread  a  thick  cushion  of  mashed  potatoes, 
avell  seasoned  with  salt,  fresh  butter  and  a  very  little  milk.     Roll 


36  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

up  the  steak  with  the  potatoes  inside,  and  fasten  the  sides  an 
the  ends  with  skewers.     Put  the  steak  into  a  baking  pan  with 
large  cupful  of  stock  of  gravy  and  let  it  cook  slowly,  basting  like 
a  chicken.     Serve   with  a  rim  of  mashed   potatoes   around  the 
platter  and  garnish  with  watercress. 

Beef  Steak,  with  Onions. 


(Mrs.  Parker.) 

Pound  the  steak,  season  and  fry  ;  then  dredge  flour  over  it  and 
add  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Drain  the  onions,  which  must  have: 
been  boiled,  cut  them  up  and  put  them  into  the  pan,  having  taken i 
out  the  steak  ;  add  a  lump  of  butter  and  a  little  more  flour,  stir,  i 
and  when  the  onions  are  brown,  put  in  the  steak ;  whemj 
thorougly  heated,  serve. 

Beef  Steak  Pie  (French  Style). 

Take  a  nice  piece  of  beef,  rump  or  sirloin;  cut  in  small  slices 
slice  also  a  little  raw  ham  ;  put  both  in  a  frying-pan,  with  some 
butter  and  small  quantity  chopped  onions  ;  let  them  simmer  too 
gether  a  short  time  on  the  fire  or  in  the  oven  ;  add  a  little  flout 
and  enough  stock  to  make  sauce  ;  salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley 
and  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce  as  seasoning ;  add  also  a  few 
sliced  potatoes,  and  cook  together  for  about  20 minutes;  put  thiii 
into  a  pie-dish,  with  a  few  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  on  the  topi 
and  cover  with  a  layer  of  common  paste.  Bake  from  15  to  2c 
minutes  in  a  well  heated  oven.  All  dark  meat  pies  can  be  treatec 
precisely  the  same  way.     Tf  poultry,  leave  the  potatoes  out. 

Frizzled  Beef. 

(Mis§  Wister.) 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  dressed  beef  cut  as  thin  as  Saratoga 
potatoes ;  3  ounces  butter  and  Cottoleae  mixed  ;  2  teacupful 
milk  ;   1  tablespoonful  flour. 

Place  butter  in  skillet  over  moderately   hot  fire  ;  when  it  con: 


R.    K.    CUDMORE, 

DEALEK  IN 

Unadulterated  (l\\\\{,  <5r<?a/r\  ai?d  Buttermilk 
FresA  Country  Butter  and  Eggs.   BR&7§Hst.?sFECE' 

If  YOU  want 

PURE 

U  NA  DULTiRATED^      BUY 


bhtter      ^  ^   (kameftj 


Call  or  address 


T.  (gibbons, 


gpZe  Agent  for  Washington.      254  K  Street  Market. 

DELIVERED      AITYWHEBE. 

H.  BURKHART  &  SON, 
FURNITURE,    CARPETS 

Mattresses,  Oil-Cloths,   Mattings, .  Rugs,    Window    Shades, 
Childrens'  Carriages,  Refrigerators,  Etc. 

115F-QUICK  SALES  AND  SMALL  PROFITS. 

1013  and  1015  Seventh  Street,  Northwest. 

C.  H.  BURGESS  &  SON, 

DEALERS  IN 

COAL,  WOOD  AND  COKE, 

WASHINGTON,  D,  C. 

MAIN  OFFICE,  DEPOT  AND  STORE   YARD, 

Eighth  and  O  Streets,  N.  W.  First  and  N  Streets,  N.  E. 

Telephone  450.  Telephone  550. 

37 


38  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

mences  to  brown  add  beef  and  sift  the  flour  in  gradually  ;  let  all 
cook  till  the  flour  looks  brown,  but  be  careful  not  to  scorch  ;  then 
add  milk,  stirring  all  the  time,  till  the  dressing  has  cooked  to 
consistency  of  rich  cream.  This  is  a  delicious  breakfast  relish, 
and  the  mixture  is  admirable  to  be  eaten  with  griddle  cakes. 

Washington  Steak. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Take  a  porterhouse  steak,  cut  two  inches  thick  and  well  trim- 
med of  bone  and  fat,  and  put  it  on  the  broiler  and  broil  quickly 
over  a  hot  fire.  Place  it  on  a  hot  platter  and  spread  both  sides 
of  it  with  this  mixture  :  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  ]/z 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  V2  tablespoonful  of  white  pepper.  On 
top  of  the  steak,  place  3  plantains,  just  fried  in  butter.  The 
plantains  are  the  red  bananas.  Over  this  pour  l/2  pint  of  be- 
chamel sauce  and  over  the  whole  sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of 
grated  horse  radish. 

White  House  Steak. 

(Mrs.  Sprague.) 
One  pound  of  steak  chopped  very  fine  and  freed  from  sinews ; 
and  gristle.     Mince  fine  a   tablespoonful    of  onion  and  fry  it  a 
light  brown  in  a   little   butter.     Add   the    minced   meat  and  an  i| 
equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  season  nicely,  and  moisten  with 
a  little  cold  gravy  or  stock  of  any   kind.     It  must  be  just  moist 
enough  to  mould  into  shape.     Pressed  in  a  small  wine-glass  they 
resemble  pears,  and  after  they  are  fried  they  should  have  a  sprig 
of  parsley  inserted  into  the  stem  end  ;  or  you  may  roll  them  round 
like  sausages  or  make  into  little  flat  cakes.     They  must  be  dipped 
in  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,   and  again  in  crumbs.     Make  a 
little  brown  gravy  to  pour   round  them,  or  serve  with  a  mush- 
room or  tomato  sauce. 

Boiled  Mutton  with  Caper  Sauce. 

(Mrs    A.  G.  Rogers.) 
Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling  ivater,  add  a  little  salt ;  wash  a  leg 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  39 

of  mutton  aud  rub  salt  through  it.  Cook  about  three  hours — ac- 
cording to  size.  Take  some  of  the  broth,  thicken  with  flour  and 
butter,  salt,  pepper  and  2  tablespooufuls  of  capers,  or  mint 
sance  if  preferred. 

Mint  Sance. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  green  mint,  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoonful 
white  sugar,  1  cup  best  cider  vinegar.  Put  vinegar  and  sugar  in 
sauce  boat  and  stir  in  mint  ;  stand  15  minutes  before  serving. 

Baked  Leg  of  Mutton. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

Take  a  leg  of  mutton  weighing  6  or  8  pounds,  cut  down  the  un- 
der side  and  remove  the  bone,  fill  it  with  a  dressing  made  of  4 
ounces  of  suet,  2  of  chopped  ham,  6  ounces  of  stale  bread,  2  eggs, 
1  onion,  a  little  thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  parsley,  nutmeg,  salt, 
and  pepper  ;  sew  up,  lay  in  a  pan  and  put  in  a  hot  oven  ;  baste 
with  butter,  cook  three  hours. 

Mntton  Haggis. 

(Mrs.  Rorer.) 

Chop  the  uncooked  heart,  tongue,  and  y2  the  liver  of  a  sheep, 
and  mix  with  them  ]/2  that  weight  in  chopped  bacon  ;  add  a  x/z 
cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  teaspoon  - 
ful  of  salt,  %  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  2  well  beaten 
eggs ;  pack  this  into  a  well  buttered  mold,  cover,  place  in  a  ket- 
tle partly  filled  with  boiling  water,  an'd  boil  slowly  for  two 
hours.  When  done,  turn  it  on  a  dish,  and  serve  it  plain  or  with 
sauce  bechamel. 

Roast  Lamb. 

Lay  in  dripping-pan,  dash  cup  cold  water  over  it,  and  roast  in 
oven  ;  time,  say  10  minutes  to  pouud.  Baste  often  and  freely, 
and  after  )/z  hour  cover  with  sheet  buttered  paper,  5  minutes 
before  taking  up,  remove  this,  dredge  with   flour  ;  as  it  browns 


4«  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

bring  to  a  froth  with  butter.  Do  uot  send  gravy  to  table  if  you 
use  mint  sauce. 

To  Give  a  Delicious  Flavor  to  Lamb. 

«  If  it  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  put  in  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled 
whole  cloves  and  long  sticks  of  cinnamon.  To  i  leg  of  lamb  al- 
low i  small  handful  of  cloves,  and  2  or  3  sticks  of  cinnamon.  If 
the  lamb  is  to  be  roasted,  boil  the  cloves  and  cinnamon  in  water, 
and  baste  the  lamb  with  it. 

Breaded  Mutton  Chops. 

Trim  neatly,  cut  off  all  fat  and  skin,  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  dripping.  Turn  as  the  under 
side  browns,  drain  and  serve. 

Roast  Fillet  of  Veal. 

Veal,  y2  pint  melted  butter,  %  pound  force-meat,  1  lemon. 
Bone  the  joint ;  make  deep  incision  between  fillet  and  saddle, 
and  fill  with  force-meat.  Bind  joint  in  round  form  ;  fasten  with 
skewers  and  twine  ;  coverjwith  buttered  paper.  Roast  slowly  at 
first.  Baste  well  ;  take  off  paper  just  before  done,  dredge  over  a 
little  flour,  and  baste  with  butter.  Replace  skewers  with  silver 
one.  Pour  over  melted  butter  with  juice  of  lemon  and  brown 
gravy.     Garnish  with  sliced  lemon.     Time,  4  hours  for  1 2  pounds. 

Veal  Pot  Pie. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 

Take  2  pounds  veal— a  rib  piece  is  good — cut  it  in  small  pieces, 
put  it  into  a  pot,  having  placed  a  small  plate  in  the  bottom  to 
keep  the  meat  from  burning.  Put  in  2  quarts  of  water,  either 
hot  or  cold.  Keep  it  boiling  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then 
make  a  quart  of  flour  into  biscuit  dough,  and  a  half  hour  before 
serving  drop  in  small  lumps  of  the  dough.  Be  sure  that  there  is 
water  sufficient  to  cover  the  meat  entirety,  when  the  dumplings 
are  put  in,  and  cover  closely   for  at  least  twenty  minutes.     Pota- 


Washington,  D.  C. 


Every  defect  of 
vision  accurately 
and  scientifically 
corrected,  head- 
aches and  pain  in 
the  eyes  relieved. 
Satisfaction  guar- 
anteed in  every 
case. 

BUCHANAN  BROS. 
Specialists, 

1115  F  St.  N.  W. 


PHILHDELPHIH     STORE. 

carha^#&Teidy, 

T)r£  (Roods,  *  trimmings,  #  Hndcrware, 

UPHOLSTERY,     MATTINGS,    OIL    CLOTH,    &c. 


928  Seventh  Street- and  706  K  Street  Northwest. 


t*.  m.  b^owh,  # 
#    Paints,  (Oils,  ©lass, 

ARTIST'S    MATERIALS. 

S-    'w.     COS.     7TH     &o     IN"     STS.,     IN".    "W_ 

4i 


42  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

toes  may  be  cooked   with  it,  but  we  prefer  them  cooked  sepa 
rately  and  mashed. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Three  and  one  half  pounds  of  minced  veal  (the  leg  is  best  for 
this  purpose),  three  eggs  well  beaten,  i  tablespoon ful  of  pepper 
and  i  of  salt,  i  grated  nutmeg,  4  rolled  crackers,  1  tablespoonful 
of  cream,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  these  together  and 
make  into  a  loaf,  roast  and  baste  like  other  meats.  Beef  may  be 
used  in  place  of  veal  by  adding  %  pound  of  salt  pork,  minced 
fine. 

Breaded  Veal  Cutlets. 
(''Marion  Harland.") 

Trim  and  flatten  the  cutlets  ;  pepper  and  salt,  and  roll  in  beat- 
en egg,  then  in  pounded  cracker.  Fry  rather  slowly  in  good 
dripping;  turning  when  the  lower  side  is  brown.  Drain  off  the 
fat;  squeeze  a  little  lemon  jtvice  upon  each,  and  serve  in  a  hot, 
flat  dish. 

Gait's  Liver  Braised. 
(Mrs.  Lincoln.) 

Wipe  with  a  clean  wet  cloth.  Lard  the  rounded  side  with 
bacon  or  salt  pork.  Fry  1  onion  in  salt  pork  fat.  Put  the  liver 
and  fried  onion  in  a  braising  pan  ;  add  hot  water  or  stock  to  half 
cover,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  salt-spoonful  of  pepper,  and  1 
tablespoonful  of  herbs.  Cover,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  2 
hours,  basting  often.  When  ready  to  serve,  strain  the  liquor, 
season  with  lemon  juice,  and  pour  it  over  the  liver. 

Roast  Calf's  Liver. 

Wash  thoroughly  and  wipe  dry,  cut  a  long  deep  hole  in  the 
side,  stuff  with  crumbs,  bacon  and  onion,  chopped  fine,  salt,  pep- 
per and  bits  of  butter,  and  one  well  beaten  egg.  Sew  or  tie  to- 
gether, lard  it  over  and  bake,  serve  with  gravy  and  currant  jelly. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 


43 


Stewed  Kidney. 

Put  on  a  kidney  early  in  the  afternoon  and  let  simmer  till  bed 
time,  allow  it  to  remain  all  night  in  the  same  water.  Next 
morning  ent  into  small  pieces,  and  stew  for  an  hour  or  more  : 
make  a  brown  gravy  and  just  before  serving  add  2  hard  boiled 
eggs,  sliced.  * 

Veal  Croquettes. 

If  for  breakfast  they  can  be  prepared  the  night  before,  aud  so 
be  ready  for  the  table  in  a  few  minutes.  Chop  the  veal  fine;  mix 
Yz  cup  of  sweet  milk  with  about  a  teaspoouful  of  flour.  Melt  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg(  and  stir  the  flour  and  milk  in 
it ;  then  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  this  thoroughly  with  the  meat; 
form  it  in  balls  or  fiat  cakes. 

To  Stew  Pork. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

Take  a  nice  piece  of  the  leg  of  fresh  pork  ;  rub  it  with  a  .little 
salt  and  score  the  skin.  Put  it  into  a  pot  with  sufficient  water 
to  cover  it,  and  stew  it  gently  for  two  hours  or  more,  according 
to  its  size.  Then  put  into  the  same  pot  a  dozen  or  more  sweet 
potatoes,  scraped  and  split  and  cut  in  pieces.  Let  the  whole 
stew  gently  together  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  till  it  is  thoroughly 
done.  This  stew  will  be  found  very  good.  For  sweet  potatoes 
you  can  substitute  white  ones  mixed  with  sliced  turnips,  or 
parsnips  scraped  and  split. 

Souse  of  Pigs  Feet. 
1  Mrs.  Owens.) 

Put  the  pigs'  feet  and  cars,  when  well  cleaned,  over  the  fire  in 
cold  water.  Boil  till  .tender;  pour  over  them  in  a  jar  a  pickle 
made  of  cider  vinegar,  whole  peppers,  cloves  and  mace,  boiling- 
hot.     They  will  be  ready  to  eat  in  three  days,  or  less. 

Roast  Pork, 

Pork  is  roasted  the  same  as  beef. 


44  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Pork  Chops,  with  Tomato  Gravy. 

Trim  off  skin  and  fat ;  rub  the  chops  over  with  a  mixture  of 
powdered  sage  and  onion  ;  put  small  piece  butter  into  a  frying- 
pan  ;  put  in  the  chops  and  cook  slowly,  as  they  should  be  well 
done.  Lay  chops  on  hot  dish  ;  add  a  little  hot  water  to  gravy  in 
pan;  i  large  spoonful  butter,  rolled  in  flour;  pepper,  salt  and 
sugar,  and  yz  cup  juice  drained  from  canned  tomatoes.  The 
tomatoes  themselves  can  be  used  for  a  tomato  omelette.  Stew  5 
minutes  and  pour  over  the  chops  and  serve. 

How  to  Boil  a  Ham. 

Put  a  ham  weighing  ten  pounds  in  a  pot  large  enough  to  con- 
tain water  enough  to  cover  it.  Bring  to  a  boil  gradually,  then 
add  2  heads  celery,  2  turnips,  3  onions,  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs 
— the  vegetables  cut  into  dice.  Let  it  simmer  gently  four  hours. 
Remove  the  skin,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  put  in  a  few  cloves,  and 
brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Boil  it  3  or  4  hours,  according  to  sixe,  then  skin  the  whole  and 
fit  it  for  the  table ;  then  set  in  oven  for  yi  an  hour,  cover  thickly 
with  pounded  rusk  or  bread  crumbs,  set  back  for  yz  an  hour 
longer.  Boiled  ham  is  always  improved  by  setting  in  an  oven 
for  nearly  an  hour,  till  much  of  the  fat  dries  out,  audit  also  makes 
it  more  tender. 

Ham  Patties. 

One  pint  of  ham.  which  has  been  previously  cooked,  mix  with 
2  parts  of  bread  crumbs,  wet  with  milk.  Put  the  batter  iu  gem 
pans,  break  1  egg  over  each,  sprinkle  the  top  thickly  with  cracker 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  browned  over.     A  nice  breakfast  dish. 

Meat  Balls. 

One  bowl  full  of  fine  1  hopped  told  meat ;  add  1  cup  of  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  a  little  chopped  onion,  a  little  gravy  mixed  with 


COOK  YOUR   FOOD 

WITH 

COAL 

— *-  i.  W.  FReirifill  ^  ge., 

Office  454  N.  Y.  Ave., 

DEPOT  AND  SAW  MILL  4TH  AND  R  STS.  N,  E.,  ECKIMTON. 

Hickory  and  ether  Fireplace  Weed 
a  Specialty. 

GEORGE  S.  DONN, 

Practical  Paper*  H&ngev. 
PAPER  HANGINGS,  WINDOW  SHADES,  PICTURE  RODS, 

No.  1240  Seventh  Street,  Northwest, 

Telephone  Call,  1514. 


SPECIAL  ! 

We  have  just  received  New  Raisins,  Figs,  Currants, 
Citron,  New  York  Buckwheat,  "  Clover  Leaf,"  "Salmon," 
New  Lobster  and  Shrimps.  We  also  have  "Hasty  Lunch," 
Chocolate  "an  excellent  drink  prepared  in  one  minute." 

J.   H.  HUNGERFORD, 

Cor.  9th  and  O  Sts. 

USE  GOLDEN  ROD  FLOUR. 

45 


46  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

the  crumbs  to   moisten  them.     Season  with  pepper,  salt,    thyme 
or  savory,  and  fry  in  balls. 

New  England  Boiled  Dinner. 

(Juliet  Corson.) 

Remove  the  bone  from  a  compact  cut  of  the  round  of  corned  beef 
weighing  about  8  pounds,  and  tie  the  meat  as  closely  as  possible; 
put  it  in  a  deep  pot,  cover  it  with  cold  water,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  half  a  salt  spoonful  of  pepper  ;  let  it  boil  quickly,  re* 
moving  all  scum  ;  wheu  no  more  scum  rises,  put  with  it  the  fol  - 
lowing  vegetables,  peeled  and  cut  in  slices  two  inches  thick  ;  2 
canots,  four  beets,  four  white  turnips,  and  1  yellow  turnip,  6 
small  onions  peeled  so  that  they  will  remain  unbroken,  and  a 
large  head  of  celery  cut  in  two  inch  lengths.  Place  the  pot 
where  its  contents  will  simmer  slowly  for  two  hours.  A  glass  of 
wine,  or  any  table  sauce  preferred,  maybe  added  before  the 
dish  is  finished.  To  serve  it,  put  the  meat  in  the  middle  of  a 
platter,  arrange  the  vegetables  around  it,  and  pour  a  little  of  the 
gravy  over  it.  More  of  the  gravy  should  be  served  in  a  small 
boat,  with  a  dish  of  boiled  potatoes.  The  united  flavor  of  the 
meat  and  vegetables  characterizes  the  dish.  Cabbage  and  squash 
can  be  added  when  preferred. 

Scrapple. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

Take  such  parts  of  the  pork  as  are  not  used  in  packing — heart, 
tongue,  portions  of  the  head,  etc.,  using  about  equal  parts  of  lean 
and  fat.  Thoroughly  clean  them,  and  boil  quite  tender  in  water 
enough  to  cover  the  meat.  When  done  take  it  up,  remove  the 
bones  and  thicken  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  with  corn- 
meal  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  mush.  Let  it  boil  a  few  min- 
utes and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  summer  savory.  Chop  the 
meat  and  return  it  to  the  mush,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste, 
and  let  it  cook  a    few  minutes  more.     Dish  it  out  and   keep  in  a 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  47 

dry,  cool  place.     Cut  in  slices  and  fry  brown  in   Cottolene,  as 
needed.     Buckwheat  meal  is  sometimes  used  with  the  cornmeal. 

To  Prepare  Tripe. 

Order  it  the  day  before  you  wish  to  serve  it,  scrape  it  thor- 
oughly, wash  it  in  several  waters,  then  boil  in  salt  and  water  un- 
til it  is  perfectly  tender];  let  it  drain  in  a  platter  all  night.  Next 
day  cut  it  in  small  pieces  and  fry  in  hot  lard  after  having  rolled 
the  pieces  in  flour.  To  serve  with  this  make  a  rich,  brown  gravy, 
using  a  little  of  the  lard  in  which  the  tripe  was  fried.  If  for 
breakfast,  send  bakedjpotatoes,  fried  apples,  and  tomatoes  with 
it ;  the  tomatoes  may  be  canned  ones,  cooked;  and  with  thin 
slices  of  toasted  bread  put  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 

Croquettes  of  Sweetbreads. 

Blanch  and  braize  1  dozen  sweetbreads.  When  cooked,  cut  them 
in  small  square  pieces,  also  x/2  can  of  mushrooms.  Put  in  sauce- 
pan to  cook,  2  finely  chopped  shalots  or  garlic  with  piece  of 
butter ;  add  some  Allemande  sauce,  reduce  it,  then  add  sweet- 
breads and  mushrooms.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg  and 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  add  the  yelks  of  2  eggs,  stir  well,  then 
put  in  pan  to  cool.  Shape  them  in  any  desired  form  ;  bread  them 
with  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  with  mushroom  or 
cream  sauce.  You  may  add  beef  tongues  or  truffles,  cut  in  small 
squares. 


48  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

MEMORANDA. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  49 

MEMORANDA. 


FAMILY    ORDERS     A    SPECIALTY. 


DEALER  IN 

\  *  340,  341  &  342  Centre  Market.  <  # 


SPECIALTIES. 

Sheaf  of  Wheat  Print. 

Elgin  Creamery. 
Full  Cream  Cheese. 
Extra  Fresh  Eggs.  Telephone  1285 


Wa^h-ington,    D.    C 


50 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  51 


POULTRY  AND  GAME. 


^  It  is  the  bounty  oj  nature  that  we  live ;  but  0/ philosophy  that 
ive  live  well. "  Sen  ec a  . 

In  roasting  or  boiling  whole  any  fowl,  truss  it — which  means  to 
draw  the  thighs  close  to  the  body,  cross  the  legs  at  the  tail  and 
tie  firmly  to  the  body  with  twine,  which  is  removed  before  serv- 
ing ;  or  pass  the  legs  through  a  slit  in  the  skin  near  the  tail,  and 
skewer  the  wings  close  to  the  body. 

To  broil,  split  the  body  down  the  back  and  lay  it  open. 

In  cutting  up  fowl  for  fricassee  do  not  break  the  bones,  cut  the 
joints. 

Fowls  with  white  meat  should  be  well  cooked  ;  fowls  with  dark 
meat  may  be  underdone. 

Flesh  of  game  is  apt  to  be  tough  when  first  killed.  It  is  more 
tender  if  kept  some  time,  or  if  frozen. 

Clean  giblets  thoroughly  ;  cook  and  chop  them  fine ;  use  them 
in  the  gravy  or  in  the  filling  of  roast  fowl,  or  mix  with  bread- 
crumbs, well  seasoned  and  moistened,  brown  in  butter,  and  serve 
with  the  meat. 

Pigeons  should  be  roasted  in  a  quick  oven.  Large  pigeons  will 
roast  in  an  hour  ;  a  small  one  in  half  an  hour. 

Ducks  will  roast  in  half  an  hour  ;  wild  ducks  in  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.     This  time  is  for  roasting  rare. 

An  ordinary-sized  goose  will  roast  in  one  hour. 

A  large  turkey  will  require  three  hours  to  roast.  Use  Cranberry 
sauce  and  current  jelly  with  fowls,  veal,  ham  and  game. 

A  spoonful  of  vinegar  put  into  the  water  in  which  fowls  are 
boiled  makes  them  tender.    The  garnishes  for  turkey  and  chicken 


52  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

are  parsley,  fried  oysters,  thin  slices  of  ham,  slices  of  lemon  and 
fried  sausage. 

Roast  Turkey. 

(Marion  Harland.) 

After  drawing  the  turkey,  rinse  out  with  several  waters,  and  in 
next  to  the  last  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  The  inside  of  a  fowl, 
especially  if  purchased  in  the  market,  is  sometimes  very  sour, 
and  imparts  an  unpleasant  taste  to  the  stuffing,  if  not  to  the  inner 
part  of  the  legs  and  side  bones.  The  soda  will  act  as  a  correc- 
tive, and  is,  moreover,  very  cleansing.  Fill  the  body  with  this 
water,  shake  well,  empty  it  out,  and  rinse  with  fair  water.  Then 
prepare  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  mix  with  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  thyme  or  sweet  marjoram.  You  may,  if  you  like,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Mince  a  dosen  oysters  and  stir  into 
the  dressing.  The  effect  upon  the  turkey  meat,  particularly  that 
of  the  breast,  is  very  pleasant. 

Stuff  the  craw  with  this,  and  tie  astring  tightly  about  the  neck, 
to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  stuffing.  Then  fill  the  body  of  the 
turkey,  and  sew  it  up  with  strong  thread.  This  and  the  neck- 
string  are  to  be  removed  when  the  fowl  is  dished.  In  roasting,  ijf 
your  fire  is  brisk,  allow  about  ten  minutes  to  the  pound  ;  but  it 
will  depend  very  much  upon  the  turkey's  age  whether  this  rule; 
holds  good.  Dredge  it  with  flour  before  roasting,  and  baste  often; 
at  first  with  butter  and  water,  afterward  with  the  gravy  in  the 
dripping-pau.  If  you  lay  the  turkey  in  the  pan,  put  in  with  it  a 
teacup  of  hot  water.  Many  roast  always  upon  a  grating  placed 
on  the  top  of  the  pan.  lu  that  case  the  boiling  water  steams  the 
under  part  of  the  fowl,  and  prevents  the  skin  from  drying  too 
fast,  or  cracking.  Roast  to  a  fine  brown,  ajid  if  it  threatens  to 
darken  too  rapidly,  lay  a  sheet  of  white  paper  over  it  until  the 
lower  part  is  also  done. 

Stew  the  chopped  giblets  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them, 
and  when  the  turkey  is  lifted  from  the  pan,  add  these  with  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  to  the  drippings  ;  thicken  with1 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  53 

a  spoonful  of  browned  flour,  wet  with  cold  water  to  prevent  lump- 
ing ;  boil  up  once,  and  pour  into  the  gravy-boat. 

Roast  Turkey  Without  Stuffing. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

The  best  authorities  on  cooker}-  now  agree  that  to  stuff  poultry 
is  to  ruin  its  flavor  ;  and  after  once  roasting  a  turkey  without 
stuffing  it,  the  housewife  will  ever  after  spare  herself  the  labor  of 
stuffing,  which  really  does  more  harm  than  good.  In  dressing  a 
turkey  carefully  remove  every  pin-feather,  and  singe  off  all  hair. 

Take  out  the  crop  through  a  cut  made  lengthwise  in  the  skin  of 
the  neck,  cut  off  the  neck  close  to  the  body,  fold  down  the  neck 
skin  on  the  breast,  and  secure  it  neatly  with  a  small  skewer* 
Open  the  body  on  the  under  side  between  the  legs,  and  after 
loosening  from  the  inside  of  the  carcass  the  thin  membrance 
which  holds  the  intestines,  take  out  the  latter  in  a  ball,  being 
particular  that  they  are  not  torn  apart  and  that  the  gall,  which 
lies  under  the  liver,  is  not  broken.  If  there  is  no  mishap  in  re- 
moving the  intestines,  the  inside  of  the  bird  will  not  need  to  be 
washed,  but  should  merely  be  wiped  out  with  a  damp  cloth. 
Poultry  or  game  is  never  washed  nowadays,  unless  it  actually 
needs  cleansing. 

Carefully  disengage  the  liver,  gizzard  aud  heart  from  the  intes- 
tines, and  set  them  aside  to  cook.  Truss  the  turkey  by  folding 
the  wings  backward  upon  the  back,  really  turning  them  against 
the  back  at  the  first  joint.  Secure  the  legs  firmly  and  compactly 
to  the  sides  by  skewers,  dust  the  turkey  with  pepper,  and  place 
strips  of  salt  pork  upon  the  breast.  Set  in  a  hot  oven,  and  after 
•thirty  minutes  diminish  the  heat.  Roast  without  water,  basting 
with  the  fat  that  cooks  from  the  fowl  ;  and  allow  twenty  minutes 
cooking  to  each  pound  of  turkey,  not  counting  the  first  half  hour. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  when  nearly  done. 

Place  the  heart,  liver  and  gizzard  on  the  fire  in  a  stew-pan,  and 
let  them  simmer,  closely  covered,  for  forty  minutes ;  then  re- 
move, and  chop  finely.     When  the  turkey  is  done,   remove  it  to 


French  Plate  Glass  for  Show 
Windows. 

Crystal  Plate  Glass  for  dwel- 
lings 

Chances'  Crystal  Sheet  Glass 
for  dwellings. 

French  Double  and  Single 
Thick  Glass  for  Dwellings. 

American  Double  and  Single 
Thick  Glass  for  Dwellings. 

Cathedral  Glass,  all  tints,  for 
Dwellings. 

Enameled  or  Figured  Glass  for 
Doors,  etc. 

Plain  Ground  Glass  for  Offices, 
etc. 

Ribbed  Glass  for  Skylights. 

Hammered  Glass  for  Floors. 

Cut  and  Embossed  Glass  for 
Doors. 

Plain  and  Beveled  Edge  French 
Plate  Mirrors. 

Plain  and  Beveled  Edge  Ger- 
man Mirrors. 

Glass  Bent  to  order  any  Pat- 
tern. 


CHAS.  E.  HODGKIN, 

DEADER   IN 

Paints, 

Oils, 

Varnishes, 

etc. 

913  Seventh  Street,  N.  W. 

GLASS  A  SPECIALTY. 

Washington,  I.  C. 


DENHAM  &  WHITE, 

GROCERIES, 

Fresh  Meats  of  All  Kinds 

CHOICE  BUTTER  AND  EGGS, 
Cor.    Eighth   and   S  Streets,    N.    W. 


BERNARD  OSTMANN, 

Choice  Sugar  Cured  Bacon,  Smoked  Beef,  Pork  and  Lard 

DOVE  BRAND  HAMS  COOKED  AND  RAW,  TONGUES,  &C. 
Stall  190  Centre  Market.      24  and  25  O  St.  Market. 

54 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  55 

serving  dish,  and  set  the  roasting  pan  on  top  of  the  range  in  a 
gentle  heat.  Pour  all  but  twotablespoonfuls  of  the  oil,  from  the 
pan,  add  two  tablespoon fuls  of  flour,  and  cook  for  three  minutes. 
Then  add  the  water  in  which  the  giblets  were  cooked,  stir  con- 
stantly, and  pour  in  more  water  until  the  gravy  is  of  the  desired 
thickness.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  if  needed,  and  the  chopped  gib- 
lets, and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

Chicken  Pie. 

(Mrs.  D.  W.  Peetrey.) 

One  quartflour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  teacup  of  lard 
and  butter,  mixed,  rub  well  together  and  moisten  with  cold 
water,  enough  to  roll.  Line  the  sides  of  the  baking  dish,  with 
dough  one  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Place  in  the  chicken, 
having  been  well  cooked,  boned  and  seasoned.  Fill  the  dish 
half  full  of  the  broth,  bits  of  butter  and  sprinkle  heavily  with 
flour.  Put  on  the  top  crust,  the  edges  laping  under  the  sides. 
Cut  several  gashes  to  let  the  steam  escape,  and  bake  until  brown, 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Chicken  Pie  a  la  Reine. 

One  half  pound  salt  pork,  x/z  teaspoonful  each  celery,  salt  and 
thyme,  4  sprigs  parsley,  white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cut 
chicken  up  in  small  joints,  the  pork  in  neat  scallops,  stew  gently 
in  ii  pints  water,  until  nearly  cooked.  Line  edge  of  pudding 
dish  with  paste,  make  layers  of  chicken,  pork  and  seasonings, 
when  used,  sprinkle  over  the  chopped  parsley  ;  fill  with  the  gravy, 
cover,  ornament,  and  wash  over  with  milk  ;  bake  in  steady  oven 
40  minutes. 

Roast  Chicken. 

Singe  and  truss  carefully.  Broilers,  as  they  are  called,  are 
better  without  stuffing,  unless  very  large.  Season  with  salt,  put 
small  bits  of  butter  over  meat  and  place  in  pan  with  a  little 
water  ;  baste  occasionally  and  dredge   with  flour  before  taking 


56  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

from  oven.     A  spring  chicken  cooked  in  any  style  is  not  to  be  de- 
spised.    But  a  well-known  epicure  once  said  : 

"  To  roast  spring  chicken  is  to  spoil  it 
Just  split-down  the  back  and  broil  it." 

Chicken  Pie  with  Oysters. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

Boil  a  good  sued  chicken  until  tender,  drain  off  the  liquor 
from  quart  of  oysters.  Line  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  large, 
round  pan  with  crust,  put  in  a  layer  of  oysters  and  a  layer  of 
chicken  until  the  pan  is  full.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  bits  of 
Cottolene  and  the  oyster  liquor,  add  some  of  the  chicken  liquor. 
Cover  with  crust  and  bake.     Serve  with  sliced  lemon. 

Chicken  a  la  Terrapin, 

(Miss  Helen  L.  Johnson.) 

Make  a  rice  border,  as  follows  :  Wipe  il  cups  of  rice  on  a 
soft  towel.  Cover  with  i  quart  of  boiling  stock  and  boil  for  20 
minutes.  Then  stand  at  the  back  of  the  stove  for  15  minutes. 
Drain  if  necessary  ;  season ;  press  into  a  well  greased  border 
mold.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20  minutes.  Turn  out  of 
the  mold. 

While  the  rice  is  baking,  prepare  the  chicken  as  follows  :  Take 
1  pint  of  chicken  meat.  Add  to  it  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
rubbed  smooth  with  1  of  flour.  Stand  over  a  moderate  fire  un- 
til heated,  and  add  ]A  cup  of  cream,  the  whites  of  2  hard  boiled 
eggs  mashed  through  a  sieve  ;  add  to  the  yolks  mashed  and 
rubbed  to  a  paste,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Stir  this  into  the 
chicken,  and  let  it  come  to  boiling  point.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  1  tablespoonful  of  parsley  chopped  fine.  Put  in  the  cen- 
tre of  the  border  mold,  and  serve  on  a  circular  platter. 

Smothered  Chicken. 

Cut  up  chicken  for  fricassee,  wash  and  let  stand  in  cold  water 
a  little  while.     Drain,  season,  dredge  with  flour,  and  put  in  drip- 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  57 

piug  pan  not  quite  covered  with  water.  Dot  with  bits  of  butter. 
Cover  closely  and  bake  until  tender.  When  done,  take  from  pan 
and  make  a  gravy. 

Yankee  Potpie. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Stew  one  chicken  until  tender  and  make  a  gravy  with  it  as  for 
fricassee.  Take  some  fresh  baking-powder  biscuit,  break  them 
open  and  spread  on  a  platter  crust  side  down,  and  when  ready  to 
serve,  pour  over  the  chicken  and  gravy. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

Take  a  large  chicken,  boil  in  very  little  water.  When  done, 
take  the  meat  from  the  bones,  remove  the  skin,  chop  and  season. 
Press  into  a  large  bowl,  add  the  liquor  and  put  on  a  weight. 
"When  cold  cut  in  slices  and  eat  with  sliced  lemon  or  cucumber 
pickle. 

Virginia  Fried  Chicken. 

(Mrs.  John  Patterson.) 

Dice  and  fry  y2  pound  of  salt  pork  until  it  is  well  rendered.  Cut 
up  a  young  chicken,  soak  for  half  an  hour  in  salt  and  water, 
wipe  dry,  season  with  pepper,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat 
until  each  piece  is  of  a  rich  brown  color.  Take  up  and  set 
aside  in  a  warming  closet.  Pour  into  the  gravy  1  cupful  of  milk 
— half  cream  is  better  ;  thicken  with  1  spoonful  of  flour,  and  add 
1  spoonful  of  butter  and  chopped  parsley  ;  boil  up  and  pour  over 
the  hot  chicken,  or,  if  preferred,  serve  without  the  cream  gravy, 
with  bunches  of  fried  parsley.  Plain  boiled  rice  should  accom- 
pany this. 

Pilaff  of  Chicken. 

One  small  chicken,  %  cup  rice,  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  the  same  as  for  a  fricassee.     Put  in  a  stew 


R.  M.  FROST, 


DEALER  IN 


All  Kinds  of  Salt  Water  Oysters, 
FAMILIES,  CLUBS,  HOTELS  AND  PARTIES, 

Served  at  Short  Notice  in  Large  or  Small  Quantities 
with  the  Finest  Select  Stock. 

ORDERS  BY  POSTAL  RECEIVE  PROMPT  ATTENTION. 

1500  8th  St.  N,  W. 


JOHN    K.    WEYRICK, 

Stall  46  and  47  O  St.  Market  N.  W. 

DEALER  IN 

First  Class  Beef,  Lamb  and  Veal. 

#--O^DE^S  P^OJVlPTIiV  piliHED.-^) 

Open  Monday,  Wednesday  and  Friday  mornings — 
and  Saturday  afternoons. 

GEORGE  A.  JORDAN, 
*  REAL  #  ESTATE  *  BROKER,   * 

No.  1417  F  Street  Northwest, 

WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 
58 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  59 

pan,  half  cover  it  with  water  boiling,  and  set  it  on  a  moderate 
fire  to  simmer.  Now  wash  the  rice,  add  it  to  the  chicken  and  the 
salt,  and  let  all  simmer  until  the  chicken  is  tender.  Make  a  to- 
mato sauce.  Dish  the  chicken  and  rice  together,  and  pour  over 
it  the  tomato  sauce.  This  dish  is  very  nice  made  from  cold 
pieces  of  chicken  or  mutton. 

Braised  Duck, 

Before  trussing  the  duck  as  if  for  roasting,  place  inside  it  2 
chopped  onions.  Mix  with  them  1  dessertspoonful  of  sage,  1 
tablespoouful  of  bread  crumbs  and  pepper  and  salt.  Fasten  se- 
curely. Put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  and  fry  the  duck 
until  it  is  nicely  browned.  Then  put  in  the  stew  pan  gravy  to 
half  cover  the  duck,  with  an  onion  cut  in  slices.  Simmer  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Take  up  the  duck  and  keep  it  hot, 
while  you  strain  and  take  the  grease  off  the  gravy.  Boil  the 
gravy  until  reduced  one-half.  Return  the  duck  to  the  gravy  and 
keep  hot  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.     Serve  with  a  puree  of  peas. 

Wild  Ducks  Roasted. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 

Prepare  for  roasting  the  same  as  any  fowl.  Parboil  for  15 
minutes  with  an  onion  in  the  water,  and  the  strong  fishy  flavor 
that  is  sometimes  so  disagreeable  in  wild  ducks  will  have  disap- 
peared. A  carrot  will  answer  the  same  purpose.  Stuff  with 
bread  crumbs,  a  minced  onion,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sage, 
and  roast  until  tender.  Use  butter  plentifully  in  basting.  A  half 
hour  will  suffice  for  youug  ducks. 

Stewed  Pigeons. 

Slice  6  onions  and  fry  in  butter  a  nice  brown,  clean  pigeons 
whole  ;  put  in  each  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  parsley  ;  take  the 
onions  from  the  butter,  fry  the  birds  a  nice  brown,  add  water 
and  the  onions,  thicken  and  stew  them  about  one  and  a  half 
hours. 


60  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Quail. 

Split  them  open  at  the  back  and  broil  them  ;  the  inside  must 
invariably  be  broiled  first.     Serve  on  toast. 

Carried  Rabbit. 

(S.  C.  B.) 

Boil  a  pound  of  pickled  pork  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
with  three  onions,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  i  quart  of  water.  Put  in 
the  rabbit  and  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Take  up  the  rabbit 
and  pork.  Cut  up  the  former  into  joints,  and  the  pork  in  neat 
slices.  Put  back  into  the  liquor  the  head,  neck,  liver  and  bits  of 
rabbit  left  with  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the  pork,  and  let 
boil  for  an  hour ;  then  strain  and  skim  the  liquor  free  from  fat. 
Reduce  to  one-half  by  boiling  without  the  lid  ;  put  in  the  pork 
and  rabbit,  and  allow  them  to  simmer  gently  half  an  hour.  Rub 
the  onions  to  a  pulp,  add  them  to  i  gill  of  milk  or  cream, 
i  tablespoon ful  of  flour,  i  teaspoonful  of  curry  powdei  and  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  curry  paste.  Put  this  to  the  gravy  ;  stir  over  the  fire 
until  it  has  thickened,  and  serve  with  well-boiled  rice  on  a  sepa- 
rate dish. 

Squirrel  Pie. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 

Clean  one  pair  of  squirrels  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Wipe 
off  with  a  damp  cloth.  Put  into  a  stew  pan  with  two  slices  of 
salt  pork,  and  water  to  nearly  cover.  Cook  until  half  done. 
Season  it  well  and  thicken  the  gravy.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish, 
cover  with  pie-crust,  and  bake  30  minutes.  Squirrels  may  be 
fried,  broiled,  or  stewed,  like  chickens  or  rabbits. 

Woodcock. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 

Many  excellent  cooks  do  not  draw  them,  asserting  that  the 
trail   should  be   left  in,  even  by   those  who  do  not  like  it,  and 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  61 

removed  after  it  is  served.  They  claim  that  the  flavor  of  the 
bird  is  much  impaired  if  the  trail  is  taken  out  before  cooking. 
It  looks  rather  plausible,  as  they  are  said  to  live  by  suction,  have 
no  crop,  and  a  stomach  only  the  sue  of  a  bullet.  The  trail, 
head,  and  neck  are  regarded  as  great  delicacies  tiy  epicures. 
For  my  own  eating,  I  could  not  cook  them  without  drawing. 

Neck  of  Venison. 

(S.  L.  B.) 

Remove  the  bones,  roll  up  the  meat  and  tie  tightly.  Wrap  the 
meat  thus  prepared  in  buttered  paper.  Put  in  a  pan  and  baste 
frequently.  An  hour  and  a  half  will  cook  it.  Remove  the  paper 
sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  over  the  meat,  brown  with  butter.  Fry 
the  venison  bones  with  two  sliced  onions,  some  gravy  and  a 
bacon  bone  or  two,  and  make  a  rich  gravy.  Another  sauce  is 
made  by  dissolving  a  little  currant  jelly  in  the  sauce,  adding  a 
lump  of  butter,  a  few  drops  of  Chili  vinegar  and  a  glass  of  port 
wine. 

Dressing  for  Broiled  Game. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

Mix  an  ounce  of  butter  with  about  a  teaspoonful  of  unmade 
mustard,  salt,  a  dust  of  cayenne  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  or, 
if  preferred,  lemon  juice.  Score  the  flesh  pretty  deeply,  coat  it 
thickly  with  the  above  mixture  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire. 

Potato   Stuffing  for  Poultry  and  Game. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

Potato  stuffing  may  be  used  for  any  fowl,  though  it  is  better 
for  ducks  and  geese.  Take  about  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  1 
teaspoonful  of  onion  juice  or  2  spoonfuls  of  fine  chopped  onion, 
y2  cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  black  pep- 
per, salt,  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  ;  many  like  yolk  of 
egg,  about  2  to  the  above  quantity ;  mix  and  beat  well. 


THE  MONUMENTAL, 

#^-Fashion  Leaders  in  Fine  Millinery-^ 

AT  POPULAR  PRICES. 

We  keep  constantly  on  hand  a  fine  assortment  of 
Ladies'  and  Childrens'  trimmed  and  untrimmed 
Hats  and  Millinery  novelties,  also  fine  as- 
sortment of  hosiery,    Mens'   Under- 
wear,   Handkerchiefs   and    Um- 
brellas. 
939  F  ST„  N.  W. 


MRS.  A.  T.  WHITING, 

DEKL6R     IN     FINE    7UTIL-L-HSE2RY, 

Hats  and  Bonnets  BleacM  and  Pressed  in  tie  Latest  Styles, 

No.  518  TENTH  STREET,  N.  W. 


S.  Oppenheimei*  &  Bi*o., 

HOLIDAY   GOODS    OF   ALL    KINDS  AT  AUCTION  PRICES. 

514,    9th   St.    N.    W. 

faogre?hI   New  Home  Sewing  Machine. 


62 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  63 

Preparing  Frogs. 

In  preparing  frogs  for  the  table  use  only  the  hind  quarters  ; 
wash  in  warm  water,  then  soak  in  vinegar  and  salt  for  an  hour ; 
scald  them  and  remove  the  skin  ;  wipe  dry  and  fry  in  butter. 


64  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

MEMORANDA. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  65 

MEMORANDA. 


Goal!  Goal!!  Coal!!! 


If | You  Want  the  best  Coal  mined,  free  from 
dirt,  trash  and  mineral  impurities,  at  the  lowest  prices 
consistent  with  the  best  service,  and,  especially,  if  you 
want  Protection  Against  Scarcity  of  Coal  resulting 
from  Strikes  or  insufficient  transportation  facilities,  then 

Take  This  Advice : 

Avoid  new,  upstart  firms  with  no  capital  or  facil- 
ities, and  whose  stock  in  trade  consists  of  high-sound- 
ing titles  like  "We,  Us,  &  Co."  Such  a  firm  can- 
not give  you  the  best  service,  and,  being  dependent  on 
small  consignments  by  railroad,  it  can  furnish  you  no 
protection  Against  Scarcity. 

CHOOSE 

An  Old,  Large  and  Reliable  Firm  of  Estab- 
lished Reputation.     Such  a  firm  is  that  of 

V.  BALDWIN  JOHNSON, 

one  of  the  largest  dealers  in  the  District  of  Columbia,  and 
with  more  coal  Under  Cover  than  any  other  dealer  in 
the  city. 

YARDS : 

HOI  Rhode  Island  Ave.,  N.  W, 
511  A  Street,  N.  E. 

519  Four-and-a-half  St,,  S.  W. 

66 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  67 


VEGETABLES. 


'•  Capitis  Nidore  Culince." 

Boil  fresh,  young  vegetables  in  hard  water  ;  a  little  salt  will 
harden  the  water  at  once. 

Boil  dried  vegetables  in  soft  water  ;  a  little  baking  soda  will 
soften  water,  and  is  useful  in  freshening  and  making  tender  green 
vegetables  that  are  a  little  old  or  not  wholly  fresh.  A  little  sugar 
is  an  improvement  to  beets,  turnips  and  squash. 

Cabbage,  turnips,  carrots,  parsnips  and  beets  are  good  boiled 
with  fresh  meats.  When  vegetables  are  served  with  salt  meats, 
they  are  good  boiled  in  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  has  been 
cooked  ;  take  out  the  meat  when  done  ;  then  cook  the  vegetables. 

Underdone  vegetables  are  unpardonable. 

Boil  cnions,  medium  size,  one  hour  ;  green  corn,  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes  ;  peas  and  asparagus,  twenty  to  twenty-five 
minutes;  potatoes  half  an  hour;  if  very  small,  less  time;  cab- 
bage and  cauliflower,  twenty -five  mintues  to  half  an  hour;  carrots 
and  turnips,  forty-five  minutes  when  young  ;  one  hour  in  winter ; 
Lima  beans,  if  young,  half  an  hour;  old,  forty-five  minutes; 
beets,  one  hour  in  summer,  an  hour  and  a  half  or  even  2  hours, 
if  large,  in  winter  ;  string  beans,  if  slit  or  sliced  and  thin,  half  an 
hour;  if  only  snapped,  forty -five  minutes.  Regulate  this  time 
always  by  the  time  the  meat  will  be  done. 

Vegetable  oysters  are  good  with  every  kind  of  meat.  Beets 
peas  and  beans  with  boiled  or  roast  meats.  Carrots,  parsnips, 
turnips,  greens  and  cabbage  are  eaten  with  boiled  meats.  Mashed 
turnips,  onions  and  apple  sauce  with  roast  pork.     Tomatoes  with 


68  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK- BOOK. 


every  kind  of  meat.  If  sweet  potatoes  are  lacking  flavor,  place 
them  in  the  sun  for  a  few  days — a  week,  when  they  will  have 
their  natural  flavor. 

Baked  Potatoes. 

Time,  i  hour.  Take  as  many  large  potatoes  as  you  wish,  wash 
clean,  then  wipe  dry,  put  them  into  quick  oven  for  i  hour.  Serve 
them  in  napkin,  with  cold  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Saratoga  Potatoes 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 

Peel  and  slice  thin  into  cold  water.  Drain  well,  and  dry  in  a 
towel.  Fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  boiling  Cottolene.  Salt  as  you  take 
them  out,  and  lay  them  on  coarse  brown  paper  for  a  short  time. 
They  are  very  nice  cold  for  lunch,  or  to  take  to  picnics. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 

Boil,  peel  and  slice  6  potatoes.  Put  a  sliced  onion  into  a  hot 
buttered  frying-pan.  When  a  little  brown,  put  in  the  potatoes, 
Season,  and  when  a  golden  brown,  sprinkle  over  them  a  table- 
spoon chopped  parsley.  A  combination  of  onion  and  parsley  al- 
ways means  Lyonnaise. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  pare  potatoes  and  slice  thin,  put  in  dish 
a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  but- 
ter ;  then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  etc.,  until  dish  is  nearly  full. 
Then  fill  with  milk  or  cream.     Bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Roasted  Potatoes  with  Beef. 

(Mrs.  John  Patterson.) 

Pare  the  potatoes  and  place  in  the  pan  on  the  rack  with  the 
meat,  basting  when  you  do  the  beef.  They  will  be  nicely 
browned,  and  mealy  when  the  meat  is  done. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  69 

Potato  Puff. 

(Marion  Harland. ) 

Take  2  cupfuls  of  cold  mashed  potato,  and  stir  into  it  6  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  Cottolene,  beating  to  a  white  cream  before 
adding  anything  else.  Then  put  with  this  2  eggs  whipped  very 
light  and  1  teacupful  of  cream  or  milk,  salting  to  taste.  Beat  all 
well,  pour  into  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  it  is 
nicely  browned.  If  properly  mixed,  it  will  come  out  of  the  oven 
light,  puffy  and  delectable. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

(Mrs.  E.  C.  Bixby.) 

Pare,  boil,  and  mash  6  good-sized  potatoes.  Add  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  ZA,  of  a  cupful  of  hot  cream  or  milk,  the  whites  of 
2  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  cool  enough 
to  handle,  work  into  shape,  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

Baked  Mushrooms. 

Place  some  large  flat  ones,  nicely  cleaned  and  trimmed,  011  thin 
slices  of  well  buttered  toast,  putting  a  little  piece  of  butter  in 
each,  as  also  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  salt ;  lay  them  on  a  baking 
tray  and  cover  them  carefully  ;  heap  the  hot  ashes  upon  them, 
and  let  them  bake  on  the  hearth  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Fried  Mushrooms. 

When  peeled  put  them  into  hot  butter  and  let  them  heat 
thoroughly  through — too  much  cooking  toughens  them  ;  season 
well  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  serve  on  buttered  toast ;  a 
teaspoonful  of  wine  or  vinegar  on  each  mushroom  is  a  choice 
method. 

Broiled  Mushrooms. 

Choose  the  largest  sort,  lay  them  on  a  small  gridiron  over  bright 


BELMONT   DAIRY, 

1804  Fourteenth  St.,  N.  W.  E.  P.  THOMAS,  Proprietor. 

MILK,  CREAM  AND  BUTTER, 

Home-Made  Sausage,   Eggs,  Poultry,  Potatoes. 

PURITY  AND  FRESHNESS  GUARANTEED. 


All  Fuel  Kept  Under  Cover. 

M.  SELLS, 

—DEALER  IN— 

•Coal,  Wood   and    Coke,* 

1840  FOURTEENTH  STREET,  NORTHWEST, 
Telephone  Call,   887-2. 


UNITED  STATES  CLAIM  AGENCY. 

W.  W.  CURRY,  Attorney, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

P  ATKNTS. 

A  Patent  is  a  grant  by  the  Governtment  for  a  specified  term  of  years,  of 
the  exclusive  right  to  make, use. and  sell  the  invention  throughout  the  country. 

You  can  Patent  any  new  and  useful  art.machine,  manufacture,  or  composi- 
tion of  matter  ;  or  any  new  and  useful  improvement ;  or  any  new  and  useful 
combination  of  parts.  Ideas  are  not  patentable,  only  the  inventions  in 
which  they  are  embodied. 

If  you  have  anything  to  patent,  write  me  about  it. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  71 

coals,   the  stalk  upward;  broil  quickly,  and  serve  with  butter, 
pepper  and  put  salt  over. 

Stewed  Mushrooms. 

Let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water  1  hour,  then  cover  with  fresh 
water  and  stew  until  tender;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per ;  cream,  if  you  wish. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

(Miss  Mary  Worick.) 

Cut  tomatoes  in  slices  without  skinning  ;  pepper  and  salt  them; 
then  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them  and  fry  in  butter  until 
brown.  Put  them  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  milk  or  cream  into 
the  butter  and  juice.     When  boiling  hot  pour  over  tomatoes. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Twelve  large  smooth  tomatoes,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little 
pepper,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs,  1  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice.  Arrange  the  tomatoes  in  a 
baking  pan.  Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  smooth  end  of  each.  With 
a  small  spoon  scoop  out  as  much  of  the  pulp  and  juice  as  possi- 
ble without  injuring  the  shape.  When  all  have  been  treated  in 
this  way,  mix  the  pulp  and  juice  with  the  other  ingredients,  and 
fill  the  tomatoes  with  this  mixture.  Put  on  the  tops  and  bake 
slowly  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Slide  the  cake  turner  under 
the  tomatoes  and  lift  gently  onto  a  flat  dish.  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley and  serve. 

Yum-Yum. 
(Miss  Wister.) 

Baked  tomatoes,  partly  stuffed  with  crab  meat,  are  a  new  del- 
icacy, and  a  sandwich  made  of  one  slice  of  a  large,  ripe,  juicy 
tomato  with  a  layer  of  crab  meat,  cooked  Creole  style,  is  said  to 
be  delicious. 


72  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Onions  Stuffed  With  Kidneys. 

Peel  six  large  onions,  cut  about  an  inch  from  the  top  of  each, 
scoop  out  the  center  so  as  to  admit  a  piece  of  kidney  about  an 
inch  square,  lay  the  onions  in  a  saucepan,  season  them  with 
salt  and  pepper,  cover  them  with  cold  gravy  or  broth  of  any 
kind,  and  stew  them  gently  for  2  hours  ;  take  them  up  carefully 
without  breaking  them  and  serve  them  hot.  The  pieces  cut 
from  them  should  be  chopped  fine,  mixed  with  any  bits  of  kid- 
ney remaining  from  the  dish,  mixed  with  double  their  quantity 
of  cold  chopped  potatoes,  or  bread  soaked  in  cold  water,  and 
fried  for  a  supper  dish.     Any  kind  of  kidneys  can  be  used. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Choose  small  onions,  unless  they  are  too  tiny,  allow  one  for 
each  guest.  Place  them  on  the  stove  in  hot  water,  and  let  them 
simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  change  the  water,  and  cook 
them  until  tender.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  the  following  : 
\x/2  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoon ful  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Wet  the  flour  with  some  of  the 
milk,  and  add  it  to  the  balance  of  the  milk  when  the  latter  is 
heat  ed  to  the  boiling  point.  Stir  the  sauce  until  it  is  creamy, 
and  then  add  the  salt  and  butter.  Place  the  onions  in  the  serv- 
ing dish,  pour  over  them  the  cream  sauce,  add  a  dusting  of  pep- 
per, and  serve. 

Fried  Onions- 
Peel  (holding  onions  and  hands  under  water  to  prevent  tears), 
wash  and  cut  crosswise  so  as  to  form  undivided  rings.  Flour  them, 
fry  5  or  6  minutes.     Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  serve 
with  beefsteak. 

Cauliflower  an  Parmesan. 

-Boil  a  fine,  firm  head  of  cauliflower  in  boiling  salted  water 
for  twenty  minutes.  While  boiling  prepare  a  cream  sauce  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  without  browning,  1  tablespoon- 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  73 

ful  of  flour  ;  stir  until  smooth.  Add  oue  cup  of  cream,  and  stir 
until  it  thickens.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Parmesan  cheese, 
and  a  dash  of  white  pepper.  Grease  a  baking  dish;  cut  the  cau- 
liflower in  pieces ;  put  a  layer,  first  of  cauliflower,  then  of  the 
sauce,  and  continue  until  all  is  used.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  bread 
crumbs  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Boiled  Cauliflower. 

Cut  off  the  leaves,  also  stalk  close  to  the  bottom  of  the  flowers. 
Place  for  a  few  moments  in  cold  water,  then  put  in  salted  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  until  tender.  A  piece  of  coarse  netting  tied 
about  it  will  prevent  its  breaking.  Serve  hot  with  a  little  drawn 
butter  poured  over  it,  and  each  person  eating  with  a  little  vine- 
gar if  they  desire. 

Turnips  a  la  Creme. 

Cut  peeled  turnips  into  half  inch  dice,  boil  in  salted  water  and 
drain,  pour  over  a  cream  sauce  made  of  1  cup  hot  milk  poured 
gradually  over  1  tablespoonful  each  butter  and  flour  rubbed  to- 
gether.    vSalt  and  pepper. 

macaroni,  with  Cheese. 

(Juliet  Corson. ) 

The  importance  of  this  article  of  food  is  beginning  to  be  real- 
ized in  this  country,  and  now  it  remains  only  to  learn  how  to 
cook  it  palatably.  Carefully  follow  the  directions  given  and  you 
cannot  fail  to  produce  a  delicious,  dish  of  macaroni,  fit  for  the 
most  finished  epicure's  taste. 

First  of  all,  remember  that  good  macaroni  is  always  of  a  yel- 
lowish color.  That  which  has  a  white,  blanched  appearance  is 
decidedly  inferior,  You  can  buy  the  genuine  Italian  macaroni 
at  the  Italian  stores  generally  to  be  found  in  our  large  cities,  or 
from  regular  grocers  or  dealers  in  general  stores.  It  costs  in 
New  York  fifteen  cents  a  pound.  One  pound  after  being  prop- 
erly boiled  is  increased  in   quantity  about  fourfold.     To  boil  it 


he  Warmer  Shor  flousRj 


GEO.  W.  RICH, 

919  F  jfofBBt,  Hortgwe^t, 
*  WASHINGTON,  D.  C.  * 

The  People's   Resort  for  Genuine   Bargains. 

E.  Kurtz  Johnson.        Telephone  Call  762-2.        Richard  A.  Johnson. 

JOHNSON  BROTHERS, 

#<?oal,  (^o^e  apd  U/ood,# 

MAIN  OFFICE,  1206  F   STREET,  X.   W. 

BRANCHES : 

15 15  Seventh  Street,  N.  W.         Third  and  K  Streets,  N.  W. 
First  and  M  Streets,  N.  E.        Twelfth  and  Water  Streets,  N.  W. 

WHARVES  AND   RAILROAD  YARDS  : 
Foot  of  Twelfth  Street,  S.  W.  First  and  M  Streets,  N.  E. 

Supply  More  Families  with  Fuel  than  Any  One  Firm 
in  the  United  States. 

NO    CHARGE    FOR    STORING    COAI,     WITH     "  CHUTE  "     WAGON. 

74 


THE  UNIVERSAL    COOK-BOOK.  75 

properly  have  a  large  pot  or  saucepan  two-thirds  full  of  water  on 
the  fire,  put  a  level  tablespoouful  of  salt  into  it  to  every  quart  of 
water,  and  when  it  is  boiling  fast  throw  into  it  the  macaroni, 
wiped  with  a  clean  dry  cloth,  but  not  washed.  Let  it  boil  until 
it  yields  easily  to  pressure  between  the  fingers  ;  then  drain  it  in  a 
colander,  and  rinse  it  thoroughly  in  cold  water  ;  let  it  stand  in 
cold  water  until  you  are  ready  to  finish  it  according  to  any  given 
recipe.     The  following  is  an  excellent  one. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  one  ounce  each  of  butter  and  flour,  and  stir 
them  together  over  the  fire  until  they  form  a  smooth,  thick  paste. 
Meantime  put  a  little  milk  and  water  (about  a  gill  of  each;  to 
boil,  and  when  they  are  at  the  boiling  point  pour  them  gradually 
into  the  butter  and  flour,  and  stir  altogether  with  an  egg -whip. 

If  thicker  than  pudding  sauce  add  a  little  boiling  water ;  when 
the  sauce  has  boiled  up  once,  season  it  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt 
and  just  a  grating  of  nutmeg.  It  is  then  ready  for  the  macaroni, 
which  must  be  put  in  it  to  be  heated  ;  while  this  is  heating  grate 
two  ounces  of  hard,  dry  cheese,  and  mix  it  with  the  macaroni, 
which  can  be  served  as  soon  as  it  is  hot.  Or  you  can  make  it  a 
little  nicer  by  putting  it  on  a  shallow  metal  dish,  sprinkling  it 
well  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  putting  a  few  bits  of  butter 
on  top  of  it  and  browning  it  in  the  oven.  Macaroni  prepared  in 
this  way  is  one  of  the  most  palatable  of  dishes,  as  well  as  one  of 
the  most  wholesome  and  economical  of  foods. 

Hot  Slaw. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

Chop  fine  and  sprinkle  over  with  flour.  Put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  in  the  oven  to  melt.  Salt  and  pepper  the  cabbage,  and 
put  in  the  pan  with  the  butter.  Mix  >4  a  teacupful  of  cream,  1 
egg,  1  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  heat 
thoroughly.     Serve  warm . 

Hubbard  Squash 

Split  the  squash  in  %y  remove  the  seeds,  place  in  a  baking  tin. 


76  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

and  bake  for  one  hour.  Remove  from  the  oven,  scrape  the  soft 
pulp  from  the  shell,  season  well  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

Vegetable  Oysters. 

Cut  them  in  thin  slices,  boil  in  clear  water  until  soft,  then  pick 
a  little  codfish  fine  and  add  to  the  oysters,  boil  all  together  a  few 
minutes,  then  season  the  same  as  oysters.     Eat  with  crackers. 

Hulled  Corn. 

One  quart  of  corn,  put  to  soak  at  night  in  warm  water  ;  in  the 
morning  change  the  water  to  enough  to  boil  it  in,  putting  in  a 
rounding  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  boil  till  it  will  hull.  Rinse  as 
usual. 

Succotash. 

Boil  i  quart  lima  or  string  beans  until  tender,  cut  down  the 
middle  the  grains  of  i  dozen  ears  corn,  and  scrape.  Drain  off 
water  from  beans,  add  the  corn,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a 
good  lump  of  butter.  If  too  dry  add  a  little  cream  or  milk. 
Cook  twenty  minutes  after  adding  the  corn. 

Stewed  Celery. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

Clean  the  heads,  take  off  the  coarse,  outer  leaves.  Cut  in  small 
pieces  and  stew.  When  tender,  add  cream,  butter,  and  a  little 
flour.     Season  to  taste. 

Celery. 

This  is  no  longer  served  in  a  high  glass,  but  in  a  low,  flat  dish 
that  is  much  more  elegant  in  appearance.  Celery  stalks  should 
be  scrubbed  lengthwise  with  a  small  brush  kept  for  the  purpose, 
aud  should  then  be  well  rinsed  and  all  rusty  lines  scraped  off 
with  a  silver  knife.  The  simple  dishes  of  a  meal  are  the  ones  to 
be  most  watchful  of,  and  one  of  these  is  celery,  which  is  too  often 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  77 

only  half  cleansed,  and  served  in  anything  but  an  appetizing 
manner. 


Do  not  break  the  skins  in  washing  or  they  will  loose  their 
color  in  cooking.  Boil  one  hour  in  hot,  slightly  salt  water.  Rub 
off  the  skins,  split  in  half,  dish,  and  pour  on  them  a  boiling  mix- 
ture of  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  1  of  vinegar  and  a  little 
pepper  and  salt.     Serve  very  hot. 

Stewed  Spinach. 

Dress  in  the  ordinary  way,  and  then  chop  fine  and  then  rub 
through  a  wire  sieve  ;  put  into  a  stew  pan  on  the  fire  with  some 
fresh  butter,  salt,  white  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg;  stir,  and 
add  a  piece  of  fiare,  a  little  more  butter,  and  mix  well ;  then 
serve  with  sippets,  fried  in  butter. 

Parsnips  (Fried.) 

(M.  C.  H.) 

Wash,  scrape,  clean  and  boil  until  quite  tender.  Drain  ;  slice 
the  long  way  of  the  parsnips,  and  fry  in  good  dripping.  Serve 
hot ;  lay  them  on  a  clean  napkin  to  absorb  the  grease.  They 
are  very  nice  cooked  this  way. 

Egg  Plant. 

Peel  and  cut  in  thin  slices  across  the  egg  plant.  Lay  for  half 
an  hour  in  salt  and  water.  Before  cooking  lay  in  flour,  and  fry 
in  lard  until  well  browned.     Eat  very  hot. 

Cabbages  Cooked  in  Cream. 

Take  2  quarts  of  chopped  cabbage,  boil  until  tender  and  the 
water  is  nearly  gone ;  then  pour  in  %  of  a  cup  of  cream,  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste  ;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve  ;  or, 
instead  of  the  cream  use  vinegar,  with  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, and  you  have  <lhot  slaw." 


J.  WILLIAM    LEE, 

Successor  to 
+*»  HENRY  LEE'S  SONS,  «*«* 

UNDERTAKER, 

332  Penna.  Avenue, 
Between  3d  and  4^  Streets,  N.  W. 


BRANCH  OFFICE: 

498  Maryland  Avenue,  S.  W. 


WEDDING 

CAKES, 
SMALL 

CAKES, 


BLOCK 

ICE  CREAM 
FOE,  CHURCHES, 
ETC. 


GO  TO 

F.  FREUND, 
815  Tenth  St,  N.  W. 

FOE  ICE  CREAM, 

WATER  ICES 

AND  CAKES. 

Special  rates  furnished  to 
Churches,  clubs,  lodges,  etc. 

815  Tenth  St.,  N.  W. 

TELBPHOHE     796. 


78 


THE  UNIVERSAL   COOK-BOOK.  79 

Green  Corn  Patties. 

One  pint  of  grated  corn,  1  egg,  1  spoonful  of  flour,  1  spoonful 
of  sweet  milk,  pepper  and  salt.  Fry  on  griddle,  with  equal  parts 
of  butter  and  lard. 

Fried  Egg  Plant. 

Peel  egg  plants,  slice  thin,  sprinkle  little  salt  over  them,  and 
let  them  iemain  y2  an  hour;  wipe  slices  dry,  dip  them  into 
beaten  yolk  of  egg,  then  into  grated  cracker,  fry  them  light 
brown  in  boiling  lard,  seasoning  slightly  with  pepper  while  they 
are  cooking.  Another  way  is  to  parboil  the  egg  plants,  after 
they  are  peeled,  in  water  with  a  little  salt,  then  slice  thin,  dust 
them  with  corn  meal,  flour,  or  corn  starch,  and  fry  brown. 

Green  Peas. 

Shell  the  peas  and  wash  well  in  cold  water.  Cook  in  boiling 
water  for  25  minutes.  A  lump  of  sugar  will  be  a  pleasant  addition 
to  market  peas.  Drain  well ;  stir  in  a  great  lump  of  butter,  and 
pepper  and  salt.     Serve  hot. 

Boiled  Asparagus. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

Cut  and  peel  the  tough  ends  of  the  asparagus,  tie  it  in  little 
bunches  and  let  it  remain  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  cook. 
Then  put  in  a  kettle  of  salted  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil 
twenty-five  minutes.  Toast  some  slices  of  bread,  butter  it  and 
place  it  on  a  heated  plate.  Drain  the  asparagus,  cut  the  strings, 
lay  it  on  the  toast  and  pour  over  it  a  sauce  made  by  stirring  1 
tablespoonful  of  flour  .into  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  when 
smooth  add  some  of  the  water  in  which  the  asparagus  was  cooked 
and  boil,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Fried  Apples. 

(Miss  Wister.) 
Peel  and  cut  into  eighths,  taking  out  the  seeds  and  cores  care- 


8o  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

fully  from  each  piece  ;  heat  some  Cottolene  in  a  frying  pan,  coat 
the  apples  lightly  with  flour  and  fry  to  a  pale  brown  ;  drain  off 
the  fat  from  each  slice,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  pile  on  a  hot 
dish ;  if  you  like  you  may  mix  a  little  cinnamon  with  the  sugar  ; 
use  only  tart  apples  for  frying.  Send  around  slices  of  buttered 
brown  bread  with  them. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

(Mrs.  A.  G.  Rogers.) 

One  quart  white  beans  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water.  In 
morning  parboil  until  you  can  take  beans  in  a  spoon  and  blow  off  | 
the  skin.  Add  piece  soda  size  of  a  pea,  drain  off  that  water  and 
add  more  boiling  water.  Continue  to  boil  until  soft,  then  put  in 
bean  pot  with  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  streaked  fat  and  lean,  gash 
the  pork.  Add  2  teaspoons  each  of  molasses,  sugar  and  mustard. 
Put  pork  in  middle  of  beans,  cover  all  with  water.  Bake  slowly 
all  day. 

Bntter  or  Lima  Beans. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

One  quart  lima*  beans,  boil  slowly  2  hours  in  enough  salted  1 
water  to  cover  them,  when  soft  and  tender  add  1  cup  sweet  cream, , 
butter  size  walnut,  dash  of  pepper.  Thicken  with  flour  wet  up}1 
with  water,  let  all  boil  up  and  serve  hot. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  81 

MEMORANDA. 


h.  P.  HOSFORD,  M.  D. 


MISS  M.  E.  BARTLETT, 
Electrician. 


HOSFORD 


Ebctric,  Medicated  and  Vapor  Baths. 


Successful  1  y 
treat  Nervous 
Prostration,  Tor- 
pid Liver,  Lum- 
bago, Rhumatistn 
Paral  y  s  i  s  and 
Catarrh,  Malaria 
and  Spinal  Irrita- 
tion. 


C  i  r  c  u  lat  i  o  n 
stimulat  e  d  and 
equalize  d  Skin 
cleaned,  Perspera 
tion  profuse.  No 
shock  to  the  most 
sensitive  system. 


Complexion  Steaming  anil  Facial  Massage  by  a 
Thorongn  Expert. 

iREFERENCES  AND  PAMPHLET  FURNISHED  ON  APPLICATION. 

Baths  administered  and  Cabinets  for  Sale  at 


918  H  ST.,  N.  W. 


WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 


82 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  83 


SALADS. 


"  lo  make  a  perfect  salad  there  should  be  a  spendthrift  for  oil,  a 
miser  for  vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  maplcap  to  stir  the  in- 
gredients up  and  mix  them  well  together. — Spanish  Proverb. 

Salads  are  very  suitable  for  warm  weather,  or  any  weather, 
and  there  are  few  vegetables  and  few  varieties  of  fish,  flesh  and 
fowl  from  which  a  salad  cannot  be  made. 

To  have  your  vegetables  crisp  and  fresh,  soak  them  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour,  dry  them  with  a  soft  towel,  and  keep  them  in 
a  cool  place  till  you  use  them.  Meats  and  fish  may  be  cut  up, 
and  kept  in  a  cool  place,  but  do  not  mix  the  dressing  with  any 
salad  until  you  are  ready  to  serve.  Any  of  the  dressings  given 
make  good  salads.  Lettuce  is  the  best  vegetable  for  meat  and 
fish  salads,  but  other  "  greens  "  may  be  used.  Some  think  meat 
and  fish  salads  improved  if  seasoned  with  a  little  French  dressing 
before  made  up  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  The  hostess  always 
serves  the  soup,  salad  and  dessert,  and  it  is  now  customary  for 
her  to  make  the  dressing  for  a  salad  at  table  in  the  presence  of 
her  guests. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

(Mrs.  J.  W.  Webb.) 

Shred  or  chop  a  head  of  white  cabbage  and  pour  over  it  the 
following  :  Dressing  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  saltspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon - 
ful  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  vinegar.  Rub 
well  together,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  milk,  and  lump  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg.     Place  in  double  boiler  stirring  constantly  until  thick. 


84  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Chicken  Salad. 

(Mrs.  Parloa.) 

One  quart  chicken  meat ;  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar ;  1  table- 
spoonful  oil ;  1  generous  teaspoonful  salt ;  y2  teaspoonful  pep- 
per ;  1  pint  celery  ;  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Free  cold  cooked  chicken  of  skin,  fat  and  bones,  and  cut  it  in 
cubes.  Put  1  quart  of  the  meat  in  a  bowl  with  a  marinade  made 
by  mixing  vinegar,  oil,  salt  and  pepper.  vStir  well,  and  place  in 
the  refrigerator  for  1  hour  or  longer. 

Cut  in  thin  slices  enough  of  the  white,  tender  part  of  celery  to 
make  a  generous  pint.  Wash  this  in  cold  water,  and  put  it  in 
the  refrigerator  with  pieces  of  ice  on  top.  At  serving  time  re- 
move the  ice,  and  drain  all  the  water  from  the  celery.  Mix  the 
celery  with  the  chicken,  and  add  yi  a  pint  of  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Arrange  the  salad  in  a  bowl  or  on  a  flat  dish.  Mask  it 
with  yz  a  pint  of  mayonnaise,  and  garnish  with  some  of  the 
blanched  celery  leaves. 

Cucumber  and  Onion  Salad. 

Pare  cucumbers  and  lay  in  ice-water  1  hour  ;  do  same  with 
onions  in  another  bowl.  Then  slice  them  in  proportion  of  1  on- 
ion to  3  large  cucumbers,  arrange  in  salad  bowl.  Use  the  fol- 
lowing : 

Salad  Dressing. 

(Mrs.  C.  H.  Ford.) 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  boiled 
hard,  and  mashed  fine  as  possible  ;  add  gradually  a  tablespoon 
prepared  mustard,  3  of  melted  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper 
and  vinegar  to  taste. 

Egg  Salad. 

(Miss.  Wister.) 

Take  as  many  eggs  as  needed,  boil  them  until  perfectly  hard, 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  85 

almost  half  an  hour.  Take  out  the  yolks  carefully,  chop  the 
white  very  fine.  Arrange  lettuce  leaves  or  cress  on  a  dish,  mak- 
ing nests  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  put  one  yolk  in  each  nest; 
sprinkle  dressing  over  the  whole. 

Fish  Salad. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

One  can  of  salmon,  or  the  same  of  any  cold  fish,  either  boiled 
or  baked,  and  from  which  remove  the  skin  and  bones.  Chop, 
when  cold,  3  large  boiled  potatoes,  and  mix  with  the  fish.  Rub 
smooth  the  yolks  of  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  mustard ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  1  gill  of  vine- 
gar ;  pour  the  dressing  over  the  fish  and  potatoes. 

Lettuce  Dressing. 

(Mrs.   Currier.) 

Yolk  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  vinegar,  4  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter  or  oil.  Sugar  to  taste  and  cayenne  pepper  ;  y2 
teaspoonful  mustard. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Cut  the  meat  of  2  small  lobsters  into  small  pieces.  Add  a  lit- 
tle of  the  fat  and  coral.  Then  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
pour  over  enough  mayonnaise  dressing  to  moisten  well.  Put  in 
the  middle  of  a  platter,  garnish  with  lettuce  leaves,  pour  over 
the  remainder  of  the  dressing,  and  put  slices  of  boiled  egg,  and 
olives  over  the  top. 

Oyster  Salad. 

Let  fifty  small  oysters  just  come  to  a  boil  in  their  own  liquor. 
Skim  and  strain.  Season  the  oysters  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  1  of  oil,  l/z  teaspoonful  of  salt,  }4  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
and  place  on  ice  for  2  hours.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  up  a  pint 
of  celery,  using  only  the  tender  part,  and  when  ready  to  serve, 
mix  with  the  oysters,  adding  about  Yz  pint  of  mayonnaise  dres- 


JOHN  R.  WRIGHT, 

Embalmer  and  Undertaker, 

1337  TENTH  ST.,  N.   W., 
Telephone  Call,  709-  Washington,  D.  C. 

Telephone  Call  225-2. 

G.  Y.  HANSELL, 


DEALEB    IILsT 


^Foreign   and  Domestic  Wall   Papers,^ 
INTERIOR  DECORATOR, 

No.  601  H  Street,  N.  E. 


W.   D.   CLARK.  R.   P.    CLARK. 

W-  ©•  CLARK  &  €©., 

-^£Dealer  in  First-Class  Dry  Goods,^— 

No.  811  Market  Space,  Penna.  Avenue, 

WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 
86 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  87 

sing.     Arrange  in  a  salad  dish.     Pour  over  another  y2  pint  of 
dressing,  and  garnish  with  white  celery  leaves. 

Potato  Salad. 

(Aunt  Tee.) 

Four  large  cold  potatoes  ;  3  small  onions  ;  1  large  cucumber, 
add  lettuce  and  celery  according  to  taste  and  convenience,  place 
on  ice,  and  serve  with  the  following  dressing: — one  or  2  eggs 
well  beaten  ;  1  large  teaspoonful  butter ;  %  teaspoonful  mustard; 
%  teaspoonful  black  pepper  ;  trifle  cayenne ;  salt  to  taste ;  yi 
cup  vinegar,  when  ready  for  use,  thin  if  desired. 

Shrimp  Salad. 

(Mrs.  M.  C.  Currier.) 

Cut  and  peel  fair  raw  tomatoes,  removing  the  inside,  fill  with 
shrimps,  put  over  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaves  with  radishes  cut  like  tulips. 

Sardine  Salad. 

For  1  large  box  of  sardines,  take  6  hard  boiled  eggs,  drain  off 
the  oil  from  the  fish,  remove  backbone,  tail  and  skin,  and  mix 
thoroughly  with  the  eggs,  minced  fine  ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.     Serve  plain,  with  vinegar,  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Red  Vegetable  Salad. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

One  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  1  pint  of  cold  boiled  beets,  1 
pint  of  uncooked  red  cabbage,  6  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  8  of  red 
vinegar  (that  in  which  beets  have  been  pickled),  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt  (unless  the  vegetables  have  been  cooked  in  salted  water), 
y*  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Cut  the  potatoes  in  thin  slices  and 
the  beets  fine,  and  slice  the  cabbage  as  thin  as  possible.  Mix 
all  the  ingredients.  Let  stand  in  a  cold  place  one  hour,  then 
serve  with  dressing. 


88  THE  UNI  VERS  A  I,  COOK-BOOK. 

Tomato  and  Celery  Salad. 

(Miss  Kate  Curry.) 

Scald  and  peel  smooth,  round  tomatoes.  Cut  a  slice  off  at  the 
stem  end  and  carefully  remove  the  seeds.  Place  on  ice  until 
cold,  then  fill  with  celery  cut  into  small  pieces  and  moistened 
with  mayonnaise.     Serve  each  tomato  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

.       (J-  F.  B.) 

Add  to  the  yolk  of  i  egg  i  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  i  of  salt,  i 
of  sugar,  a  little  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly.  Then  add  a  small 
cupful  of  oil,  mixing  it  in  drop  by  drop  until  it  becomes  like 
butter.  Add  about  4  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar.  When  ready  to 
use  it,  thin  with  a  little  condensed  milk. 

French  Salad  Dressing. 

(J.  F.  B.) 

Take  the  yolk  of  1  eg£  ;  6  tablespoonfuls  of  oil ;  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  salt.  Shake  together  in  a  bottle  until 
white..    Pour  over  the  lettuce. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 
MEMORANDA. 


89 


Garpets,  Furniture  and  OphelsterY  &80ds, 

801  Market  Space,  and  308  and  310  Eighth  Streets. 


John  J.  Costinett,  ^ 

:  :  :  :  army  and  navy:  : 


•1     * 


(Eatlor, 


TAvSniONABLC  Civilian  Dkma 

624  14th  Street,  N.   W. 

Knights  Ccmplcr  Kegalia. 
Cleaning,  Altering. and  Repairing.  WASHINGTON,  D.  0. 

HARTUNG'S  DAIRY, 

Prospect  St.,  N.  B. 

MILK  AND  OEEAM  A  SPECIALTY, 
^Delivery  Twice  Per  Day.#^ 

Milk  8  cents  per  quart.  Cream  12  cents  per  pint. 

Orders  by  mail  promptly  attended  to. 

90 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  91 


PICKLES  AND  MEAT 
SAUCES. 

"  Peter  Piper  picked  a  peck  of  pickled  peppers.'* 

"  What  is  sauce  for  the  Goose  is  sauce  for  the  Gander." 

Cucumber  Pickles. 

(Mrs.  Webb.) 

Two  hundred  small  cucumbers ;  15  small  white  onions  ;  1 
handful  horse-radish  root  cut  small  ;  1  dozen  small  green  pep- 
pers ;  put  all  in  salt  water  and  let  stand  overnight ;  in  the  morn- 
ing when  you  take  out  of  salt  water,  add  %  02.  of  each  of  the  fol- 
lowing ground  spices  : — cloves,  cinnamon,  all-spice,  mace,  celery 
seed,  white  mustard  seed  and  a  very  little  red  pepper ;  1  pound 
of  brown  sugar ;  also  an  oz.  of  tumeric.  Put  the  pickles  in  a  jar, 
and  put  spices  on  top  and  cover  with  cold  sharp  vinegar. 

Hidgen  Pickle. 

(Mrs.  H.  E-  W.) 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  chopped  finely ;  add  1  handful  salt  ; 
drain  three  or  four  times  ;  then  add  2  heads  of  cabbage,  4  la  rge 
onions,  6  green  peppers,  all  chopped  finely.  Cover  this  with 
vinegar  ;  let  it  boil  five  minutes ;  drain  off  the  vinegar.  Th  en 
take  fresh  vinegar  enough  to  cover  it.     Put  it  all  over  the  fi  re 


92  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK  . 

and  scald,  with  2  ounces  whole  cassia,  1  ounce  cloves,  1  large 
tablespoonful  mustard;  and  1  pint  of  molasses.  Stir  well.  When 
cold  cover  tightly  in  stone  jars. 

Chilli  Sauce. 

(MissM.  H.  Gould.) 

Thirty -six  large  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  core  and  chop  fine;  4  on- 
ions, 3  red  and  3  green  peppers,  remove  seed  and  chop  fine  ; 
3  tablespoonfuls  salt,  2  cups  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoon - 
fuls  ground  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  cloves,  1  tablespoonful 
celery  seed.  Put  all  on  except  spices  and  boil  until  thick,  add 
spices  and  boil  for  20  minutes  longer,  then  bottle  or  jar  while 
hot. 

Chow  Chow. 

(Mrs.  A.  E.  Hoyle.) 

One-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  4  onions,  4  large  peppers,  1 
head  cabbage.  Chop  fine  and  salt  over  night,  then  strain 
through  coarse  seive  and  with  1  quart  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  % 
tablespoonful  mustard,  boil  until  tender,  then  add  1  teaspoonful 
ground  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  allspice, 
1  teaspoonful  tumeric,  %  teaspoonful  black  pepper,  and  jar 
while  hot. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

(Mrs.  Geo.  Barnes.) 

One  and  one-half  pecks  ripe  tomatoes,  boil  and  strain  through 
a  seive ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  salt,  ]/z  pound  brown  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  cloves,  2  of  mustard,  1  of  red  pepper,  1  of  celery  seed ; 
boil  iy2  hours,  then  add  1  quart  cider  vinegar,  boil  another 
hour,  bottle  and  seal. 

Sweet  Pickled  Cantaloupe. 

(Mrs.  Keech.) 
Nine  pounds  fruit ;  3  pounds  brown  sugar  ;   1  quart  vinegar ;  1 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  93 

teaspoonful  cinnamon  ;   1  teaspoonful  cloves  ;  1  teaspoonful  mace; 
2  teaspooufuls  celery  seed. 

Peach,  Pear  and  Plum  Pickles. 

To  every  quart  of  vinegar  add  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  boil 
and  skim.  Wipe  the  fruit,  stick:  three  or  four  cloves  in  each. 
Boil  in  the  vinegar,  a  few  at  a  time,  until  tender.  Skim  them  out, 
and  cool.  When  all  is  done  put  in  a  jar,  and  turn  the  vinegar 
over  them  hot.  Cinnamon  and  allspice  may  be  added  in  the 
vinegar,  if  desired. 

Spiced  Damsons. 

Seven  pounds  damson  plums  ;  1  pound  brown  sugar ;  1  and  % 
pints  of  vinegar ;  1  ounce  cloves  ;  1  ounce  cinnamon.  Boil  4 
hours,  taking  out  the  pits  as  they  rise.  Use  either  whole  or 
ground  spice. 

Spiced  Currants. 

(Mrs.  John  Patterson.) 

Five  pounds  currants,  4  pounds  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoon fuls 
cloves,  2  tablespoon  fuls  cinnamon,  1  pint  vinegar ;  boil  2  hours 
or  till  quite  thick. 

Shirley  Sauce,  for  Meats. 

(Mrs.  J.  M.   Welty.) 

Eight  large  tomatoes,  4  large  onions,  1  green  pepper,  4  tart  ap- 
ples, 1  tablespoonful  salt,  2  pints  brown  sugar,  1  quart  of  vinegar, 
1  tablespoonful  cloves,  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful 
allspice.     Hash  all  very  fine  and  boil  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

Add  to  1  teacupful  of  fresh  made  drawn  butter,  the  juice  of  1 
small  lemon,  chopped  parsley,  minced  onions  and  thyme,  cay- 
enne pepper  and  salt.  Beat  while  simmering.  Serve  with  meat 
or  fish. 


Age  PRINTING  CO. 


PRINTERS. 


BOOK 
AND  JOB 

INVENTIVE  AGE  BUILDING, 


COR.  8TH  AND  H  STS.,  N.  W.. 
TELEPHONE,  1516. WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 

Have  You  Seen  The 

NEW  HAMMOND  TYPEWRITER? 

It   possesses  all   Old   and   many   New   advantages. 
JOHN  C.  PARKER, 

619  7th  Street,  N.  W. 

WELCOME    FOOT   BATH, 

Why  go  with  tired  feet  when  by  using  the  Welcome  Foot  Bathli 
all  soreness  will  be  removed. 

MRS.    I.    M.    HOLLISTER,    Sole   Proprietor,   Hartford,   Conn; 

For  sale  at  Palais  Royal,  Bentley's  Drug  Store  and  Lausburgs.^ 

AGENTS  WANTED. 

H.  S.  HAIGHT, 

GROGRR, 
^Headquarters  for  Holiday  Goods. # 

Established  1876.  Cor.  nth  and  S  Streets,  N.  W. 

94 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  95 

Oyster  Sauce. 

("Marion  Harlan d.") 

One  pint  oysters ;  half  a  lemon  ;  2  tablespoon fuls  butter  ;  1 
tablespoonful  flour;  1  teacupful  milk  or  cream;  cayenne  and 
nutmeg  to  taste. 

Stew  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  five  minutes,  and  add  the 
milk.  When  this  boils,  strain  the  liquor  and  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan. Thicken  with  the  flour  when  you  have  wet  it  with  cold  water; 
stir  it  well  in  ;  put  in  the  butter,  next  the  cayenne  (if  you  like  it), 
boil  one  minute ;  squeeze  in  the  lemon  juice,  shake  it  around 
well,  and  pour  out. 

Or,  drain  the  oysters  dry  without  cooking  at  all ;  make  the 
sauce  with  the  liquor  and  other  ingredients  just  named.  Chop 
the  raw  oysters,  and  stir  in  when  you  do  the  butter ;  boil  five 
minutes,  and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Some  put  in  the  oysters 
whole,  considering  that  the  sauce  is  handsomer  than  when  they 
are  chopped. 

Oyster  sauce  is  used  for  boiled  halibut,  cod,  and  other  fish,  for 
boiled  turkey,  chickens,  and  white  meats  generally. 

Roman  Sauce. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

Put  1  teacupful  of  water  and  1  of  milk  on  the  fire  to  scaid  •  stir  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  3  well  beaten  eggs.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  2  ounces  of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  vine- 
gar. Boil  4  eggs,  slice  and  lay  over  the  dish.  Serve  with  boiled 
tongue,  beef,  venison  or  fish. 

Currant  Sauce  for  Venison. 

(Juliet  Corson.) 

Half  an  hour  before  the  venison  is  done  pick  over  an  ounce 
of  dried  currants,  wash  them  well,  put  them  over  the  fire  in  half 
a  pint  of  hot  water,  and  boil  them  for  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  add 
to  them  2  heaping  tablespoon  fuls  of  bread  crumbs,  1  of  butter,  a 


96  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  6  whole  cloves,  and 
boil  the  sauce  gently  ;  just  before  serving  it  add  a  glass  of  port 
wine. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

(Mrs.  Rorer.) 

One  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes  ;  i  tablespoonful  flour  ;  3  level 
teaspoonfuls  Cottolene  ;  1  small  onion  ;  1  bay  leaf ;  1  sprig  pars- 
ley ;  1  blade  mace  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Put  the  tomatoes  on  the  fire  with  the  onion,  bay  leaf,  parsley 
and  mace,  and  simmer  slowly  for  ten  minues.  Melt  the  Cotto- 
lene, add  it  to  the  flour  ;  mix  until  smooth.  Press  the  tomatoes 
through  a  seive,  add  them  to  the  Cottolene  and  flour,  stir  contin- 
ually until  it  boils,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  it  is  ready  to  use. 

This  may  be  served  with  chops,  fillet,  or  broiled  steak. 

English  Sauce. 

One  tablespoonful  of  grated  horse  radish ;  1  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard  ;  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  ;  1  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  sugar.  Blend  together  and  serve  immediately.  For 
cold  or  hot  roast  beef. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

One  quart  of  cranberries  ;  1  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  2  cupfuls  of 
sugar.  Wash  the  berries  carefully,  place  them  in  a  granite  ket- 
tle, pour  over  them  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  for  seven  min- 
utes. Remove  from  the  fire,  pass  through  a  colander,  return  to 
the  kettle,  add  the  sugar,  cook  for  one  minute,  and  turn  out  to 
cool. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

(Mrs.  H.  D.  Bates.) 

Put  half  a  teacupful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when  melted 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.     Cook,  but  not  brown,  then  add  a 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  97 

pint  of  water  and  stir  until  smooth.     .Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per.    This  sauce  is  a  nice  addition  to  boiled  or  baked  fish. 

White  Sauce. 

One-third  pint  of  cream  ;  2  ounces  butter  ;  1  teaspoonful  of 
flour  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  a  litle  lemon  juice.  Put  the  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  dredge  in  the  flour  and  the  other  ingredients  ; 
stir  until  they  boil.  The  lemon  is  added  when  served.  For 
boiled  chicken. 

Onion  Sauce. 

One-half  pint  of  milk  ;  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  heat  with  a  lit- 
tle butter  ;  salt  to  taste.  Chop  3  boiled  onions,  and  then  stir  in. 
For  roast  mutton. 


98  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

MEMORANDA. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  99 

MEMORANDA. 


WESCOTT,   WILCOX  &  HIESTON, 

#M  Estate  anil  Fire  Insurance  Apb,# 

1907    Pennsylvania    Ave.,    N.   W. 

WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 

E.  S.  Wescott.  W.  R.  Wilcox.  W.  Hieston. 

RENT   BRANCH, 

# WESCOTT  &  WILCOX,* 
Real  Estate  Agents, 

IRZEZtsTTIILTa-   -A-    SPECIALTY, 

1907  Pennsylvania  Avenne,  N.  W., 
WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 

E.   S.  WESCOTT.  W.  R.  WILCOX. 

ioo 


THE  UNIVERSAL    COOK-BOOK. 


CHEESE. 


Cheese  is  not  found  upon  our  tables  often  enough.  It  is  an  ex- 
cellent digestant,  when  eaten  moderately  and  is  more  nutritious 
than  meats.  The  soft  cheeses  are  richest  and  should  be  kept  in 
a  box  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

Cheese  dishes  prepared  by  these  receipts  may  be  served  at 
lunch,  dinner  or  tea  with  a  salad. 

Cheese  Straws. 

(Miss  G.  E.  Merrill.) 

Mix  together  4  tablespoonfuls  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  a  very  little 
cayenne  pepper,  and  3  ounces  grated  cheese.  Add  the  beaten 
yolk  of  1  egg,  and  then  enough  iced  water  to  make  a  very  stiff 
paste.  Roll  the  paste  on  a  board,  into  a  sheet  %  inch  thick. 
Cut  the  sheet  into  strips  >£  inch  wide,  and  5  inches  long;  and 
bake  them  about  ten  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

(Mrs.  Rorer.) 

Two  cups  grated  cheese  ;  2  egg  yolks ;  yz  cup  milk  ;  salt  and 
cayenne  to  taste. 

Toast  carefully  slices  of  bread  with  the  crusts  removed.  While 
hot,  butter  them,  and  then  plunge  in  a  bowl  of  hot  water.  Place 
on  a  heated  dish  and  stand  in  the  oven  to  keep  warm  while  you 
make  the  rarebit.  Put  the  milk  in  a  porcelain  lined  or  granite 
saucepan  ;  stand  it  over  a  moderate  fire  ;  when  boiling  hot,  add 
the  cheese  ;  stir  continually  until  the  cheese  is  melted  ;  add  the 


102  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

salt,  cayenne  and  yolks,  and  pour  it  over  the  toasted  bread.  If 
the  rarebit  is  stringy  and  tough,  it  is  the  fault  of  the  cheese  not 
being  rich  enough  to  melt. 

Old  English  dairy  cheese  makes  the  best  Welsh  rarebit. 

Welsh  Rarebits. 

Put  a  little  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  set  it  on  a  moderate  fire ; 
cut  up  in  slices  some  new  cheese  and  put  into  the  saucepan  ;  stir 
the  whole  thoroughly  until  the  cheese  is  melted  and  well  mixed 
with  the  milk.  Only  a  small  portion  of  milk  is  necessary,  say 
about  one-eighth.  Have  some  pieces  of  toast  ready  buttered,  and 
on  the  bottom  of  a  dish.  When  the  cheese  is  thoroughly  melted 
and  mixed,  pour  it  upon  the  toast  and  serve  while  hot. 

Cheese  Fonda. 

Pour  yi  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  on  the  crumbs  of  a  French  roll, 
beat  it  up  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  cheese,  grated,  and 
the  yolks  of  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Just  as  it  is  ready  for  the  oven 
add  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  frothed.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  a 
deep  dish.     Serve  immediately. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

This  dish  must  be  sent  to  table  direct  from  the  oven  in  the  pan 
in  which  it  has  been  baked,  as  it  falls  if  kept  standing.  Beat 
separately  the  whites  and  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  to  the  yolks  1 
tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour,  2  of  grated  cheese,  a  pinch  of  cay- 
enne, one  of  salt,  and  1  cup  of  milk;  when  well  mixed  add  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  stir  briskly,  pour  into  a  buttered 
shallow  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  a  rich  brown — 
about  fifteen  minutes. 

Cottage  Cheese. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Place  3  quarts  bonny-clabber  over  the  fire  and  when  it  curdles 
drain  it  through  a  seive.     To  this  curd,  add  1  cup  sweet  cream, 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  103 

or  work  in  yi  cup  butter,  salt  to  taste  and  place  in  a  cheese  cloth, 
bag  and  hang  up  to  dry,  or  press  it  into  moulds. 

Deviled  Biscuit. 

(Miss  Parloa.) 

One  tablespoonful  Parmesan  cheese  ;  1  tablespoonful  dry  mus- 
tard ;  1  tablespoonful  olive  oil ;  l/z  teaspoonful  salt ;  one-fifth 
teaspoonful  cayenne  ;  2  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Mix  these  ingredients  together  and  spread  the  mixture  lightly 
upon  half  a  dozen  soda  biscuit,  and  toast  over  a  hot  fire.  Serve 
immediately.  * 

If  objection  be  made  to  the  use  of  oil,  substitute  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  melted  butter.  Only  a  delicate  flavor  is  given  to  the  bis- 
cuit by  the  ingredients  named ;  and  if  a  strong  taste  be  desired, 
double  the  quantity  of  materials  for  the  mixture. 

Curried  Cheese. 

One  dozen  rolled  crackers,  %  pound  grated  cheese,  salt,  butter 
and  curry  powder  to  taste.  Moisten  with  sweet  milk,  drop  in 
hot  gem-pan,  bake  20  minutes.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


Snydei*  &  Wood, 

'TAILORS, 

1111   Pennsylvania  Avenue,   N.  W. 

A  large  stock  of  fine 

WOOLENS 
to  select  from. 

Prices  as  Low  as  Consistent  with  First-Class  Work. 
SATISFACTION    GUARANTEED. 

Phone.  662. 

104 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  105 


EGGS. 


Eggs  half  a  day  old  are  better  for  the  cook  than  the  "fresh  laid 
egg." 

Do  not  poach  eggs  that  are  not  fresh.  Serve  bread  with  eggs,. 
Eggs  prepared  in  some  of  the  receipts  here  given  are  served  at 
lunch  instead  of  soup. 

Before  beating  eggs  let  them  remain  in  cold  water  a  little  while. 

Miss  Helen  Louise  Johnson  says  :  "There  are  several  hundred 
ways  of  cooking  eggs,  this  means  largely  that  there  are  several 
hundred  ways  of  making  sauces  to  go  over  boiled  eggs.  There 
is  more  art  in  boiling  an  egg  than  is  generally  supposed.  The 
albumen  hardens  at  a  low  temperature,  about  160  degrees,  and 
the  egg  should  be  put  in  water  but  little  hotter  than  this  and  al- 
lowed to  stand  till  they  are  cooked.  They  are  like  coffee  in  this 
respect  and  should  never  be  really  '  boiled'." 

Many  physicians  tell  us, -however,  that  an  egg  should  be  boiled 
from  yz  to  1  hour  to  be  the  most  easily  digested.  To  tell  good 
eggs  from  bad  eggs — put  them  in  water  and  the  bad  eggs  will 
stand  on  end,  the  good  ones  will  lie  on  the  side.  To  keep  eggs, 
put  a  2  inch  layer  of  salt  in  a  stone  jar,  then  a  layer  of  fresh  eggs 
— large  end  down — so  on  till  the  jar  is  full,  with  a  layer  of  salt  at 
top,  cover  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  Or  the  eggs  may  be  rubbed 
over  with  lard  and  packed  in  oats  or  bran. 

Poached  Eggs. 

Break  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  into  a  saucer.  Place  water  in  a 
saucepan,  salt  it  well,  and  when  it  is  simmering,  drop  each  egg 


106  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

lightly  in,  cooking  but  one  egg  at  a  time  if  the  saucepan  is  small. 
More  may  be  cooked  at  once  by  using  a  large  frying-pan.     The^ 
water  should  not  be  allowed  to  boil  while  the  eggs  are  cooking, 
but  should  be  kept  just  at  the  boiling  point.     With  a  spoon  throw 
the  water  carefully  on  top  of  the  egg  to  whiten  it.     The  beauty  of 
a  poached  egg  lies  in  the  yolk  blushing  through  the  white,  which 
should  be  just  sufficiently  hardened  to  form  a  veil  for  the  yolk. 
When  cooked  enough,  take  out  the  egg  with  a  perforated  ladle, 
trim  the  ragged  edges,  and  slip  the  egg  upon  a  small  piece  of 
thin,  buttered  toast.     When  all  the  eggs  have  been  cooked  andc 
placed  upon  their  separate  pieces  of  toast,  add  to  each  a  bit  of: 
butter  and  sprinkle  with   salt  and  pepper.     Muffin  rings  aret 
sometimes  set  in  the   water  to  give  the  eggs  an  even  shape.     If  i 
liked,  sorrel  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  eggs. 

Mrs.  Hathaway's  Omelet. 

Three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  x/2  cup  milk,  i  teaspoon ful  corna 
starch,  i  tablespoonful  melted  butter  added  lastly.     Put  in  hott 
skillet ;  cook  and  fold ;  chopped  ham  sprinkled  on  before  fold 
ing  improves  it.     Serve  at  once. 

Bread  Crumb  Omelet. 

(Mrs.  Allyn.) 

Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  fine  dried  bread  crumbs,  a  teaspoonfull 
of  dried  parsley,  i  spoonful  of  finely  minced  onions,  2  eggs,  1 
pint  of  good  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  pepper 
and  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  froth  and  mix  with  the  milk.  Then 
add  the  other  ingredients.  Butter  a  pan,  put  the  crumbs  in  it, 
and  pour  the  mixture  over  it.  Bake  to  a  light  brown  and  serve 
at  once. 

French  Economical  Omlette. 

(M.  A.  D.) 

To  1  pint  of  boiling  milk  add  3  well  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoonful 
corn  starch  and   a   pinch   of  salt.     Turn   into  a  pudding  dish. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  107 

Jake  20  minutes.  To  be  eateu  at  once.  A  little  dexterity  must 
>e  used  in  mixing  the  eggs  with  the  milk  to  prevent  their  sepa- 
ating. 

Omelet  with  Oysters. 

(Juliet  Corson.) 

Blanch  1  dosen  small  Blue  Point  oysters,  by  bringing  them 
ust  to  the  boiling  point  in  their  own  liquor,  seasoned  with  a 
lust  of  cayenne,  a  saltspoouful  of  salt,  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg ; 
nix  an  omelet ;  place  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  begins  to  cook 
it  the  edges,  place  the  oysters,  without  any  liquor,  in  its  center, 
fold  it  together,  and  serve  it  hot  at  once. 

Omelet  with  Cheese. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

Four  eggs  ;  ]/z  cup  milk ;  1  teaspoonful  flour ;  a  little  parsley  ; 
pepper  and  salt ;  yi   teacupful   grated  cheese  ;  1  tablespoonful 
ottolene. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light  and  then  add  the  other  ingredients. 
Beat  all  well  together  and  pour  into  a  pan  in  which  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  Cottolene  is  heated.  Let  it  cook  till  light  brown, 
:hen  fold  it  over  and  dish  for  the  table.  Shake  the  pan  while 
:he  omelet  is  cooking.  Must  be  eaten  the  instant  it  is  removed 
from  the  pan . 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Take  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  cream,  warm  in  a 
frying  pan.  Break  6  eggs  in  it  and  stir  until  slightly  cooked. 
Serve  hot.     Or  scramble  in  pork  drippings. 

Tomato  Omelet. 

Make  a  plain  omelet  and  pour  tomato  sauce  around  it  just 
before  serving. 


NATIONAL  CAPITAL  ICE  CO. 


Kennebec  Ice, 

BRANCH  DEPOT: 

O  St.  Market,  Cor.  7th  and  O,  N.  W. 
BUSINESS  OFFICE  AND  DEPOT  : 

8th  St.  Wharf,  S.  W. 


^A    NEW    CYCLOPEDIAS 

at  >  w*~f  STANDARD  EDITIONS, 

AND  20     YEARS  ^ATER- 

TrVTT'VrCjri'M'yCI  A  new  work  from  cover  to  cover.  Under  the  control 
O  UXLIN  OU1N  Oj  and  supervision  of  those  great  Encyclopaedic  Pub* 
Ushers,  The  APPLETON'8,  New  York. 

New  matter,  new  maps,  new  illustrations,  authoritive  and  scholarly  ini 
its  character. 

A  new  feature  of  this  Cyclopaedia  is  that  the  authentication  of  each  ar-i 
tide  of  importance  is  attested  by  the  appending  of  the  name  of  its  author. 

Thoroughly  American  in  its  character. 

Adopted  by  all  the  Government  and  Scientific  Departments. 

No  one,  however  busy,  can  afford  to  be  a  day  without  a  good  reference 
library. 

Every  one  that  reads,  every  one  that  mingles  in  society,  is  constantly 
meeting  with  allusions  to  subjects  on  which  he  needs  and  desires  further 
information. 

Send  postal  for  specimen  pages. 

-A-G-IEZLsTTS    -W^A-HSTTIEID. 

D.  APPLETON  &  CO., 

437  7th  St.,  N.  W.  WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 

10S 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  109 

Curried  Eggs. 

(Miss  Parloa.) 

Six  hard  boiled  eggs  ;  1  cupful  stock  ;  y2  cupful  cream  or  milk; 
:  teaspoouful  chopped  oniou  ;  3  tablespoon fuls  butter;  1  table- 
;poonful  flour  ;  1  teaspoouful  curry  powder  ;  salt  and  pepper  to 
aste. 

After  cooking  the  onion  and  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan  for 
;hree  minutes  put  in  the  flour  and  curry  powder  ;  stir  the  liquid 
intil  it  becomes  smooth  ;  then  add  the  stock  and  milk  and  some 
seasoning,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Quarter  the  eggs  and 
place  them  in  a  deep  saucepan  ;  strain  the  sauce  over  them,  and 
after  simmering  for  three  minutes,  serve  ver}r  hot,  with  toast. 

The  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder  gives  a  delicate  flavor.  More 
may  be  used  if  one  desires. 

Shirred  or  Baked  Eggs. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

Break  each  egg  into  a  cup  first,  so  that  the  yolk  is  not  brok- 
en, put  all  into  a  buttered  dish  or  saucepan  in  which  they  may 
be  served  ;  put  a  little  salt  on  each  egg  and  bake  in  the  oven 
until  the  whites  are  firm.  Add  a  little  butter  and  serve  at  once. 
Nice  little  egg  shirrers,  holding  one  or  two  eggs,  are  made  for 
this  purpose.  The  eggs  are  also  very  nice  baked  on  slices  of 
toast,  or  in  any  gravy  you  may  have  left  from  poultry. 

Fricasseed  Eggs. 

(Miss  Curry.) 

I  Boil  6  eggs  hard.  When  cold  cut  in  slices  about  yi  inch  thick 
and  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs. 
Fry  in  very  hot  oil  or  lard. 

Pickled  Eggs. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 
Boil  eggs  very  hard  and  remove  the  shell.     Take  1  teaspoonful 


no  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  mace  ;  put  in  a  little  muslin  baj 
in  cold  water  ;  boil  well,  and  if  it  boils  away  add  enough  to  make: 
yi  pint  when  the  spices  are  taken  out ;  add  i  pint  of  strong  vine* 
gar  ;  pour  over  the  eggs.  If  you  want  them  colored  put  in  somt 
beet  juice. 

Eggs  upon  Toast. 

(Mrs.  Chas.  Merrill.) 

Put  a  good  lump  of  butter  into  the  frying  pan.  When  it  is  hot, 
stir  in  4  or  5  well  beaten  eggs,  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  pars ; 
ley.  Stir  and  toss  for  three  minutes.  Have  ready  to  your  hanc 
some  slices  of  buttered  toast  (cut  round  with  a  tin  cake-cuttei: 
before  they  are  toasted) ;  spread  thickly  with  ground  or  minced' 
tongue,  chicken  or  ham.  Heap  the  stirred  egg  upon  these  in, 
mounds,  and  set  in  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  parsley  and  pick- 
led beets. 

Birds'  Nest. 

(Practical  Housekeeping.) 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  remove  shells,  surround  with  forcemeat : 
fry  or  bake  them  till  nicely  browned,  cut  in  halves  and  place' 
in  a  dish  with  grayy. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  in 

MEMORANDA. 


ELECTRIC  MARKET, 

L.  R.  Keech.  J.  H.  Strong. 

13TH  AND  W  STREETS,  N.  W. 

Dealer  in  Fine  Groceries,  Fresh  Meats 
and  Provisions. 


ELECTRIC  LIGHT  FLOUR,' 


Coffee  and  Teas,  Choice  Syrups  and  Molasses, 
Fresh   Country   Eggs,  Butter  and  Cheese 
from  the  Finest  Dairies. 

Salt  Water  Oysters,  Fresh  Fish. 

Game  of  all  Kinds  in  Season. 

ALL  STAPLE  ARTICLES  AT  STAPLE  PRICES. 

Orders  called  for  and  promptly  delivered. 

KEECH  St  STRONG, 

1235  WSt,  N.  W.,  Cor.  13th. 


THE  UNIVERSAL    COOK-BOOK.  113 


BREAD  and  BREAKFAST 
CAKES,  BISCUIT 

I  and  ROLLS. 

"Here  is  bread  which  strengthens  men's  hearts, 
And   therefore  is   called,   ''The  Staff  of  life.'"1  . 

Good  bread  makes  the  homliest  meal  acceptable  and  the 
coarsest  fare  appetizing,  while  the  most  luxurious  table  is  not 
even  tolerable  without  it.  Light  crisp  rolls  for  breakfast,  spongy  y 
sweet  bread  for  dinner,  and  flaky  biscuit  for  supper,  cover  a 
multitude  of  culinary  sins  :  and  there  is  no  one  thing  on  which 
the  health  of  a  family  so  much  depends,  as  the  quality  of  its 
home-made  loaves.  Three  things  are  indispensable  to  success  in 
bread  making:  good  flour,  good  yeast  and  good  judgment. 
The  use  of  Gluten  Bread  is  very  healthful.  Graham  flour  is 
made  both  from  white  and  amber  wheat,  the  former  possesses 
more  delicacy,  the  latter  more  gluten.  For  family  use  the  F  S 
White  Wheat  Graham  is  superior.  It  makes  healthful  and  nutri- 
tious bread  particularly  for  those  troubled  with  indigestion. 

Bread  and  biscuit  should  rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place. 
If  too  cold  it  will  be  heavy  ;  if  too  hot  it  will  be  sour. 

Should  a  batch  of  dough  become  sour,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
will  help  it,  but  this  should  be  used  only  in  an  emergency. 

To  have  your  bread  rise  quickly,  double  the  quantity  of  yeast 
but  watch  it ;  do  not  let  it  sour. 


H4  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Bread  should  rise  to  twice  its  original  size  before  it  is  ready  to 
bake. 

Bake  small  loaves  rather  than  large  ones.  Do  not  have  thej 
loaf  too  large  for  the  pan  ;  it  will  be  a  bad  shape. 

Biscuit  and  rolls  require  a  hotter  oven  than  bread  and  a  longer 
time  to  rise. 

A  little  sugar  or  a  little  Cottolene  mixed  with  the  rising  will 
keep  bread  moist. 

Do  not  put  a  cloth  around  bread  or  biscuit  if  put  in  a  tin  box: 

In  using  baking  powder  or  other  chemicals  with  salt,  mix  them 
thoroughly  with  the  flour  by  twice  putting  all  through  the  sievec 
together.  An  even  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  to  a  cupful  oi> 
flour  is  a  good  proportion. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  and  one  teaspoonful  oi> 
soda  is  equal  to  two  teaspoonsfuls  of  baking  powder.  Always 
si/t  your  flour. 

Bread. 

(Mrs.  Webb.) 

Boil  3  medium  sized  potatoes,  mash  smoothly,  add  i  teacuptul 
sifted  flour.  Add  the  water  in  which  the  potatoes  were  boiledi1 
When  hot,  beat  thoroughly,  then  add  i  tablespoonful  salt,  i  table- 
spoonful  shortening  and  i  pint  cold  water  and  l/2  cake  com- 
pressed yeast.  Add  sufficient  flour  to  thicken,  knead  at  once, 
until  it  will  not  stick  to  the  board.  Raise  in  covered  pan  over: 
night.  Iu  the  morning  knead  slightly  and  make  into  loaves. 
Raise  double  its  size.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Compressed  Teast  Bread. 

(Juliet  Corson.) 

When  it  is  possible  to  obtain  fresh  compressed  yeast,  also 
called  German  yeast,  an  excellent  bread  can  be  made  in  about 
two  hours  and  half;  the  rapidity  of  the  leavening,  or  "raising," 
the  dough  is  advantageous,  because  less  of  the  nutritive  elements 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOKBOOK.  115 

of  the  flour  are  lost  than  by  following  the  long  process  ;  for  two 
loaves  of  bread  use  3  pounds  of  flour;  about  a  quart  of  water  ; 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  an  ounce  of  fresh  compressed  yeast  ; 
dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water  ;  stir  into  it  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  a  thick  batter  ;  cover  the  bowl  containing  the 
batter  or  sponge  with  a  folded  towel,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise  ;  if  properly  covered  and  heated,  it  will  rise  to  a  light 
foam  in  about  half  an  hour;  then  stir  into  it  the  salt,  dissolved 
in  a  little  warm  water  ;  add  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  sufficient 
lukewarm  water  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  knead  ;  knead 
it  five  minutes  ;  divide  it  into  two  loaves,  put  them  into  buttered 
baking-pans,  cover  them  with  a  folded  towel,  and  set  them  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  twice  their  height ;  then  bake  the  loaves  until 
each  one  is  thoroughly  done.  In  raising  the  sponge,  be  sure  that 
the  heat  is  not  sufficient  to  "  scald"  or  harden  it,  as  that  will  pre- 
vent fermentation  ;  therefore  do  not  place  it  where  the  hand  can- 
not be  held  with  comfort ;  keep  it  covered  from  draughts.  Add 
the  rest  of  the  flour. 

The  dough  made  for  home-made  bread  can  be  baked  as  raised 
biscuit  ;  and  it  can  be  made  a  little  nicer  by  kneading  in  with  it 
a  tablespoonful  each  of  sugar  and  melted  butter ;  or  it  can  be 
boiled  in  soups  and  stews  as  raised  dumplings. 

To  test  the  heat  of  the  oven  follow  the  method  of  Jules  Gouffe, 
the  celebrated  chef  oi  the  Paris  Jockey  club;  the  "moderate 
oven"  temperature  is  that  degree  of  heat  which  will  turn  ordi- 
nary writing  paper  dark  yellow  or  buff,  that  is,  the  color  of  kind- 
ling wood  ;  put  a  sheet  of  paper  in  the  oven  and  close  the  door ; 
if  the  paper  blazes  the  oven  is  too  hot;  arrange  the  dampers  to 
lower  the  heat  for  ten  minutes;  then  again  test  it  with  more 
paper  ;  it  may  be  necessary  to  try  the  temperature  several 
times. 

Premium  Bread. 

Take  K   milk   and   %   water  ;  thicken   with   flour,  and  for  4 


n6  THE  UNIVERSAL,  COOK-BOOK. 

medium  sized  loaves  use  3  tablespoon  fuls  of  yeast;  set  it  to  rise, 
and  when  light  mix  stiff,  adding  butter  the  size  of  a  black,  wal- 
nut, and  sufficient  salt ;  mould  down  two  or  three  times  thor- 
oughly before  making  into  loaves ;  then  mould  the  loaves,  and 
as  soon  as  light  bake  1  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

Teast  for  Above. 

One  quart  water,  1  handful  hops,  3  grated  potatoes,  medium 
sized,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
ginger.  Boil  the  hops,  strain,  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
boil  for  a  couple  of  minutes. 

Graham  Bread  No.  1. 

One  pint  of  water  or  milk,  1  yeast  cake,  or  1  cup  of  yeast. 
Wheat  flour.  About  nine  o'clock  at  night  dissolve  the  yeast 
cake  in  the  water,  which  should  be  lukewarm,  and  add  enough 
wheat  flour  to  form  a  stiff  batter.  Stir  and  beat  the  batter  thor- 
oughly for  5  minutes,  leaving  it  full  of  bubbles  ;  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.     In  the  morning  measure  the  following  : 

One  cupful  of  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls 
salt.  Graham  flour.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  cold  water, 
slightly  warm  the  molasses,  and  add  it  to  the  soda.  Stir  the  salt 
into  the  sponge,  and  beat  well  with  a  strong  spoon  ;  then  put  in 
the  molasses  and  soda,  and  when  these  have  been  thoroughly  in- 
corporated by  beating,  add  Graham  flour  until  a  very  thick  mix- 
ture is  formed.  This  is  not  to  be  kneaded  like  other  kinds  of 
yeast  bread,  but  it  should  be  so  thick  with  Graham  as  to  be  diffi- 
cult to  stir.  Beat  the  batter  well  for  three  or  four  minutes,  turn 
it  into  two  well-greased  tins,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  ;  and 
when  the  loaves  have  risen  to  be  half  again  their  original  size, 
bake  for  an  hour  in  a  rather  slow  oven.  The  bread  will  not  rise 
as  rapidly  as  that  made  of  wheat  flour,  as  it  has  more  body  to 
carry.  It  is  mixed  so  soft  that  the  dough  takes  the  form  of  the 
pans  in  which  it  is  baked.  The  success  of  Graham  bread  de- 
pends largely  upon  thorough  beating. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  117 

Rye  or  entire  wheat  may  be  used  in  place  of  Graham  flour. 
Graham  Bread  No.  2. 

(Miss  Carrie  Parker.) 

One  pint  of  warm  milk,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls 
sugar  or  molasses,  %  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  yz  cup  of  warm 
water,  i]/z  cups  of  white  flour,  3  cups  of  Graham  flour.  Proceed 
as  in  Graham  bread  No.  I. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 

(Mrs.  A.  G.  Rogers.) 

One  quart  of  Indian  meal,  1  quart  rye  meal,  1  cup  molasses,  1 
teaspoonful  soda,  salt  to  taste,  \%  quarts  warm  water.  Bake  or 
steam  5  hours — some  people  add  raisins. 

Plain  Rolls. 

One  cup  milk,  scalded,  1  teaspoonful  butter,  1  teaspoonful 
sugar,  yz  teaspoonful  salt,  %  cake  compressed  yeast,  %.  cup 
warm  water.     Flour  to  stiffen. 

Melt  the  butter  and  dissolve  the  sugar  and  salt  in  the  hot  milk. 
Soak  the  yeast  in  the  water ;  when  dissolved  and  the  milk  is 
cool,  put  all  together,  and  add  about  one  and  one-quarter  cups 
of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  .  thick  batter.  Beat  thoroughly, 
cover  the  bowl  with  plate  and  a  cloth  and  place  in  a  pan  of  warm 
water. 

Let  it  rise  about  an  hour,  or  until  full  of  bubbles,  then  stir  in 
flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  shaped  in  the  hand. 
Let  it  rise  again,  well  covered,  as  before,  and  when  it  is  light, 
cut  it  down.  When  it  puffs  up  again  turn  it  out  onto  the  board, 
and  knead  it  slightly.  Pat  it  out  a  little  with  the  rolling  pin, 
and  spread  the  surface  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  softened. 
Fold  it  over  toward  the  middle  and  knead  it  until  no  trace  of 
the  butter  can  be  seen. 

Divide  it  into  portions  the  size  of  a  small  egg,  and  roll  them 


B.  H.  STINEMETZ  5  SON, 
Hatters  and  Furriers, 

1237  Pennsylvania  Avenue.  413  Thirteenth  Street. 

w^siKiiNra-TOiisr,  id.  o. 

Specialties. 

LADIES'  FURS,  KNOX  NEW  YORK  HATS. 

TJmbPeilas  and  Canes.     » 

L.  A.  DELLW1G, 

(^—Grocer  and  Provision  Dealer, -^|§) 

Offers  real  Mocha  and  Java  Coffee  of  his  own  roasting, 
Black,  Green  and  Mixed  Tea,  rich  of  flavor  and  strength, 
at  fifty  cents  per  pound.  The  choicest  home-dressed 
Beef,  Iyamb,  Veal  and  Pork  ;  a  full  line  of  canned  goods, 
and  Fresh  Vegetables  ;  Fruits,  pure  Maple  Syrup,  Mince- 
meat, Sweet  Cider  and"  unadulterated  vinegar,  with  a  full 
line  of  Groceries  as  represented,  or  money  refunded. 

L.   A,   DELLWIG, 

Cor.   2d   and    Mass.   Ave.,   and    D  Sts.,  N.   E. 

C.    .5.    WON  TAQC1C, 

2204    14th  St.    Northwest. 
First  class  goods. 

Prorript  service. 

118 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 


119. 


under  the  hand  on  the  board  until  about  a  finger's  length. 

Place  them  close  together  in  two  rows  in  a  long  shallow  pan. 
Let  them  rise  till  very  light,  then  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven. 

Meat  Bread. 

(Mrs.  Cambell.) 

Two  pounds  beef,  1  pound  ham,  2  bunches  parsley,  chop  fine  ; 
3  eggs,  y2  cupful  milk,  1  cupful  cracker  or  bread  crumbs.  Pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.  Form  into  a  loaf  and  bake  in  oven. 
Pour  1  pint  of  water  over  it  after  it  is  in  pan. 

Salt-Rising  Bread. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

One  pint  new  milk ;  corn  meal  to  thicken  ;  1  gallon  flour  ; 
1  tablespoonful  sugar  ;   1  teaspoonful  salt ;  pinch  of  soda. 

Set  the  milk  on  the  fire  and  stir  in  corn  meal  to  make  thick  as 
mush.  Set  in  a  warm  place  all  night.  In  the  morning  it  will  be 
light.  Put  the  flour  in  a  bowl,  pour  in  the  mush  and  mix  with 
warm  milk  and  water,  equal  parts  :  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  soda. 
Make  a  stiff  batter,  cover  and  keep  warm.  In  an  hour  it  will  be 
light.  Work  in  flour  to  make  stiff  dough,  let  it  rise,  mold  in 
loaves,  put  in  greased  pans,  let  it  rise  and  bake.  This  makes 
the  sweetest  and  most  wholesome  bread  a  family  can  use. 

Brown  Bread. 

(H.  S.  B.) 

One  pint  Indian  meal,  1  pint  rye,  l/2  pint  sour  milk,  ]A  cup 
molasses,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  and  enough  warm  water  to  make 
thin  enough  to  drop  from  a  spoon. 

Pumkin  Bread. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 
Two  cups  buttermilk  ;  3  cups  wheat  flour  ;  3  cups  corn  meal  ; 


i2o  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

i   cup  stewed  pumkin  ;  i  cup  molasses;  2  heaping  tablespoon-, 
fuls  Cottolene  ;  2  eggs  ;  %.  tablespoon ful  soda. 
Steam  2^  hours  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Sour  Milk  Biscuit. 

(Juliet  Corson.) 

One  quart  flour ;  1  tablespoon  ful  salt ;  1  teaspoonful  soda  ;  1 
pint  sour  milk  or  buttermilk. 

Sift  the  flour  with  salt  and  baking  soda ;  flour  or  butter  a 
a  pan,  and  see  that  the  oven  is  hot ;  wet  the  flour  with  a  pint  of 
sour  milk,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
of  Cottolene,  by  chopping  it  into  the  flour ;  shape  the  biscuits 
quickly,  put  them  into  the  pan,  and  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  for 
about  twenty  minutes. 

Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough; 
roll,  and  cut  soft  and  thin. 

Tea  Rolls. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

Two  pounds  flour ;  6  teaspoonfuls  Cottolene  ;  2  eggs  ;  2  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar  ;  1  pint  milk  ;  1  teacup  yeast ;  little  salt. 

Rub  the  flour  into  the  Cottolene  ;  add  salt.  Beat  the  eggs,  add 
the  sugar,  have  almost  boiling  milk,  pour  it  on  the  eggs  and 
mix  all  together,  then  add  the  yeast.  Let  stand  till  light,  then 
make  in  small  rolls,  and  when  light  bake.  These  rolls  are  delic- 
ious and  will  bake  in  ten  minutes. 

Sally  Lunns. 

Two  cups  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  l/z  a  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  1  egg,  x/z  a  cup  milk.  %  cup  melted  butter.  Bake  15 
minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  121 

Muffins. 

(Mrs.  Cambell.) 

One  cup  milk,  1  egg,  small  piece  butter,  1  tablespoouful sugar, 
2  teaspoonful  yeast  powder,  melt  butter  and  stir  in  last.  Flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Graham  Muffins. 

(H.  S.  F.) 

One  cup  graham  flour,  y2  cup  white  flour,  %  cup  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  mixed  well  together  then 
break  1  egg  into  a  cup,  beat  well  and  fill  with  sweet  milk,  adding 
lastly  butter  (melted;  size  of  a  butternut  mix  quickly  together 
and  bake  in  hot  pan. 

Entire  Wheat  Gems. 

Two  cupfuls  of  entire- wheat  flour,  1  cupful  of  cold  water,  ]/2 
cupful  of  milk.  Beat  slightly  and  fill  gempans,  which  should  be 
small,  deep  and  very  hot.  Bake  ]/2  an  hour  in  a  very  hot  oven, 
the  first  fifteen  minutes  on  the  grate  and  the  remainder  of  the 
time  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven. 

Maryland  or  Beaten  Biscuit. 

One  quart  flour,  x/z  teaspoonful  salt,  2  ounces  of  Cottolene,  1 
cup  cold  water.  Rub  the  Cottolene  and  salt  into  the  flour  and 
mix  with  cold  water  to  a  very  stiff  dough.  Knead  ten  minutes,  or 
until  well  mixed  ;  then  beat  hard  with  a  biscuit  beater  or  heavy 
rolling  pin,  turning  the  mass  over  and  over  until  it  begins  to 
blister  and  looks  light  and  puffy.  When  in  this  condition  pull  off 
a  small  piece  suddenly,  form  it  into  a  round  biscuit,  then  pinch 
off  a  bit  from  the  top.  Turn  over  and  press  with  the  thumbs, 
leaving  a  hollow  in  the  centre.  Put  the  biscuits  some  distance 
apart  in  the.  pan.  Prick  with  a  fork.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven. 


122  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK  . 

Rusk. 

(Mrs.  Iva  Merrill.) 

One  pint  of  bread  dough,  i  tumbler  of  warm  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  i  small  cup  of  sugar,  l/z  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Set 
to  rise,  when  light  roll  out  and  make  into  rolls  and  let  rise  again 
until  very  light  before  putting  in  the  oven.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Hot  Gross  Buns, 

Three  cups  milk,  i  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter  or  lard, 
i  cup  tepid  water,  i  teaspoonful  salt,  %.  of  a  grated  nutmeg,  l/z  a 
cake  compressed  yeast.  Add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  good  bat- 
ter ;  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Roll  out  %,  an  inch  thick, 
make  a  deep  cross  on  top  of  each  bun,  with  a  knife.  Place  in 
pans,  let  rise  again,  and  bake  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  min- 
utes. Brush  over  the  top  with  white  of  egg  and  i  tablespoonful 
powdered  sugar.  „ 

Rye  Rusk. 

Two  teacups  rye  flour,  l/2  coffee-cup  of  graham  flour  and  l/2  cup 
wheat.  Add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  stir  together.  Then 
add  a  teacup  of  sugar,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  Cottolene,  and 
a  Fleischmanu's  compressed  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water.  Mix  with  sufficient  warm  milk  to  make  a  soft  bat- 
ter, and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light  add  a  cup  of 
stoned  raisins  and  a  sprinkling  of  caraway  seed  if  these  are 
liked.     Mix  them  in  well,  and  let  rise  again.     Bake  slowly. 

Corn  Cake. 

(Mrs.  H.  S.  Foster.) 

One  half  cup  sour  milk,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  i  tablespoonful 
cream,  (either  sour  or  sweet),  2  tablespoonfuls  molasses  (or  su- 
gar),  1  teaspoonful  soda,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  Indian  meal. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  ]/2  teacupful  of  sifted  corn  meal, 


THE)  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  123 


water  sufficient  to  make  soft  batter,  1  tablespoonful  of  molasses 
and  little  salt.  Mix  well  with  warm  water  over  night ;  add  1 
cake  of  Fleischmann's  compressed  yeast,  dissolve  in  warm 
water  ;  set  in  a  warm  place  ;  let  rise  till  morning.  Bake  on  hot 
griddle  well  greased  with  a  piece  of  sweet  fat  salt  pork.  Some 
use  oatmeal  with  buckwheat  for  cakes. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

(Mrs.  Owens.) 

One  pint  sour  milk  or  sour  cream  ;  3  level  teaspoonfuls  melted 
Cottolene,  if  milk  is  used;  3  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  soda  ;  flour  for 
batter  to  bake  on  griddle. 

Leave  the  whites  of  eggs  till  just  before  baking,  then  beat  very 
light  and  stir  in  lightly. 

Pancakes. 

(Mrs.  Parker.) 

One  pint  flour;  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder:  1  teaspoonful 
salt ;  1  egg ;  2  cups  milk. 

Make  a  thin  batter  with  the  above  ingredients.  Rub  a  scant 
teaspoonful  of  Cottolene  over  the  bottom  of  a  hot  frying  pan, 
pour  in  a  large  ladleful  of  batter  and  fry  quickly.  Keep  warm, 
pnt  in  more  batter.     Serve  with  honey. 

Huckleberry  Griddle  Cakes. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  P.) 

One-half  pint  huckleberries,  il/2  pints  flour,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
1  tablespoonful  brown  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  Baking  Powder,  1 
egg,  1  pint  milk.  Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  powder  j 
add  beaten  egg,  milk,  and  huckleberries  (washed  and  picked 
over).  Mix  into  batter.  Have  griddle  hot  enough  to  form  crust 
soon  as  batter  touches  it.  In  order  to  confine  juice  of  berries, 
turn  quickly,  so  as  to  form  crust  on  other  side  ;  turn  once  more 


124  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

on  each  side  to  complete  baking.     Blackberry  or  Raspberry 
Griddle  Cakes  in  same  manner. 

Pop  Overs. 

(Hattie  Barnes.) 

One  egg,  white  and  yolk  beaten  separately,  i  cup  sweet  milk, 
i  cup  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Snow  Balls. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milki  j 
1  teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder,  3  eggs  ;  flavor  with  lemon.     Put  t 

1  tablespoonful  in  a  buttered   cup,  and  steam  twenty  minutes  • 
Roll  in  white  sugar  while  hot. 

Scotch  Scones. 

One  quart  flour,  sifted   with   2  teaspoonfuls   Baking  powder,  1 
tablespoonful  sugar,  %,   teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  lard,  j 

2  beaten  eggs,  and  a  pint  of  sweet  milk.     Let  rise  four  or  five  : 
hours,  and  bake  in  muffin  rings  in  hot  oven. 

Mother's  Bnnus. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

A  cupful  each  of  butter  and  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  yeast,  a  cup-  ■ 
ful  of  scalded  milk,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  raise  over  night; 
knead  well  in  the  morning,  let  it  rise,  but  not  too  much,  knead 
again,  throwing  in  a  handful  of  cake  currants,  make  into  round 
cakes,  set  in  your  pans,  brush  over  the  top  with  a  little  milk  and 
molasses,  raise  till  pretty  light  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Rice  Cakes. 


One  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice,  1  pint  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  2  eggs  beaten  light,  and  milk  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  bat- 
ter.    Beat  all  together  well,  and  bake  on  griddle. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  125 


Cream  Toast. 


Heat  1  pint  milk,  stir  into  it  one  large  tablespoonful  flour  wet 
with  a  little  cold  milk.  Add  1  large  teaspoonful  butter,  and  1 
cup  cream  if  you  have  it.  Place  on  the  back  of  stove  to  keep 
hot,  then  toast  nicely  some  bread,  dip  into  the  cream,  put  into  a 
dish,  and  when  you  have  sufficient  toast,  pour  the  cream  over  it 
and  serve 

Fried  Bread. 

If  the  bread  is  very  dry  dip  each  slice  quickly  in  water,  then 
make  a  batter  from  1  egg,  2  tablespoon fuls  flour,  and  milk 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter  ;  dip  each  slice  in  it  and  fry  in 
butter  or  sweet  lard,  heated  very  hot,  before  laying  in  the  bread. 
This  makes  an  excellent  dessert  if  eaten  with  wine  or  brandy 
sauce. 

Waffles. 

(Mrs.  Flora  M.  Sprague.) 

One  pint  sour  milk ;  3  tablespoon  fuls  melted  butter ;  3  eggs 
beaten  separately ;  1  teaspoonful  soda,  pinch  of  salt ;  flour  to 
make  stiff  batter.     Bake  in  waffle  irons. 


126  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

MEMORANDA. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  127 

MEMORANDA. 


*  TO  TO  MTE  GilOCMS.  * 


Tfl  TtI^TTTIP      Success  in  Bread  and    Pastries 
111  ll|plu  C      llse  pUre  an(j   unadulteratedin- 

gredients.     You    can    find  them   in  our  store. 

Dakota  flour.     It  is  equal 

to  any  on  the    market. 


We  ^ecogmend 


fllTTt   ^TITPP^       ^re  ^uaren^ee(i  to  be   abso 
UU1    ppiUKp       lately  pure  by  reliable     im 


Are    from    the 


porters. 

DnFTlavorii  Eflractg  Le&dh,g  manu_ 

fac tores  of  this  country. 

Wb  [S&Mll   ^  ^u^  assortment  of  Imported  and 

Domestic    Groceries,    canned    goods 

and  table  delicacies. ___^___ 

A  Trlill  QfdGI1  Will  Convince  you  of  the  purity 
— — —  of  our  goods,  Your  patronage  is 
solicited.     Orders  by  mail  promptly  delivered. 

N.  W.  Cor.  11th  &  I  sts.,  N.  W. 

128 


THE  UNIVERSAL   COOK-BOOK.  129 


PIES. 


(i  No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  }o  our  eyes, 
As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies." 

O.  W.  HOLMES. 

"Do  not  tell  your  wife  that  your  mother's  pies  were  better 
than  hers." 

Cottolene  makes  a  lighter  and  more  delicate  pie-crust  than 
lard,  and  there  is  none  of  the  greasiness  that  always  exists  with 
lard  while  there  is  more  of  the  shortening  quality.  Cottolene 
contains  no  salt.  Always  use  a  little  in  your  pastry.  Use  %  of 
the  usual  quantity  of  shortening  when  you  use  Cottolene.  Use 
the  Cottolene  cold,  and  keep  the  pastry  in  a  cold  place.  Having 
tried  Cottolene,  you  will  not  want  lard  and  very  little  butter  for 
your  pastry.  If  Cottolene  or  any  shortening  is  distributed  in 
layers  throughout  the  pastry,  without  allowing  a  paste  to  be 
formed  with  the  flour,  it  will  be  flaky. 

The  compiler  heartily  recommends  the  use  of  this  compound 
after  two  years  of  practical  experience  as  being  more  healthful 
and  economical  than  any  other  shortening. 

To  prevent  the  juice  of  pies  from  soaking  into  the  under  crust, 
rub  the  crust,  before  filling  the  pies — with  a  cloth  dipped  in  a 
well  beaten  egg. 


130  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Pie  Crust. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

One  cupful  Cottolene,  3  cupfuls  of  flour,  a  little  salt.  Sift  the 
flour  and  the  salt  and  rub  in  the  shortening.  Use  enough  ice 
water  to  hold  all  together,  handling  as  little  as  possible,  roll  from 
you.     One-third  of  the  above  quantity  is  enough  for  one  pie. 

For  Pastry. 

(Miss  Nellie  B.  Hoyt.) 

One  cupful  of  flour  is  sufficient  for  the  crust  of  a  medium-sized 
pie.  To  make  tender  and  flaky  pastry,  always  mix  with  a  knife 
and  roll  from  you,  using  lard,  butter  and  water  as  cold  as  pos- 
sible. A  marble  or  glass  slab  is  excellent  upon  which  to  roll 
pastry. 

Common  Pie  Crust. 

(Mrs.  S.) 

One  cupful  of  lard,  1  cupful  of  butter,  5  cupsful  of  flour,  yz  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  cut  the  lard  and  butter  into  the 
flour  with  a  knife  ;  add  just  enough  ice  water  to  mix.  Neither 
roll  nor  knead  more  than  necessary. 

As  Easy  Way  oi  Making  Light  Pastry. 

(Sadie  B.) 

Chop  %  of  a  cupful  of  butter  into  a  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  with 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  ice  water  into  a  stiff 
paste.     Roll  out  once  or  twice  with  a  little  more  flour. 

Apple  Pie. 

Six  tart  apples,  l/2  cupful  sugar,  yi  lemon  rind  grated.  Peel, 
core,  and  slice  apples  very  thin  ;  line  pie  plate  with  paste  ;  put  in 
apples,  sugar,  and  a  little  water  ;  spice  to  taste,  wet  the  edges 
with  cold  water  ;  wash  with  milk,  bake  in  steady  moderate  oven 
25  minutes — or  till  apples  are  cooked. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  131 

Blackberry  or  Huckleberry  Pie. 

One-half  cupful  sugar,  and  3  cupfuls  berries  to  each  pie.  Line 
pie  plate  with  paste,  put  in  berries  and  sugar,  wet  the  edge,  cover 
and  wash  with  milk  ;  bake  in  quick,  steady  oven  20  minutes 

Custard  Pie. 

Four  eggs,  1  quart  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  yz  cupful  of  sugar. 
Bake  with  under  crust  only. 

Gocoanut  Pie. 

One  grated  cocoanut,  1  quart  of  milk  heated  to  boiling  and 
poured  over  the  grated  nut,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  4  eggs, 
sugar  to  taste.     This  makes  two  pies. 

Whipped  Cream  Pie. 

("  Grand-ma.") 

Line  a  deep  pie  tin  with  a  moderately  rich  crust.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  ;  then  spread  it  with  any  soft  jam  or  jelly,  and  on  this 
pour  a  teacup ful  of  cream,  beaten  or  whipped  to  a  stiff  foam  ; 
then  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste  ;  the  cream  will  beat  more  easily 
if  very  cold  at  first.  More  jelly  can  be  spread  on  the  top  of  the 
cream,  or  serve  it  without,  as  preferred. 

Rhubard  Pie. 

(L.  S.  P.) 

Cut  up  fine  2  cupfuls  of  tender  rhubard,  add  %  cupful  of  sugar 
and  a  rounded  spoonful  of  flour  ;  stir  all  together  and  lay  on  an 
under  crust,  put  a  few  pieces  of  butter  on  the  top,  grate  over  a 
little  nutmeg,  cover  and  bake  half  an  hour,  or  till  just  cooked 
through.     Prepared  in  this  way  the  juice  will  not  run  out. 

Pineapple  Pie. 

One  large  pineapple  or  2  small  ones  (chop  quite  fine),  2  cups 
sugar,  3  tablespoonsfuls  cornstarch,  3  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk  or 
water,  a  little  salt.     This  fills  three  pies.     Bake  with  two  crusts. 


132  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Genuine  Pumkin  Pies. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

These  shall  really  be  pumkin,  aud  neither  squash  nor  custard. 
The  pumkin  should  be  of  dark  yellow  skin  and  heavy  in  propor- 
tion to  its  size  ;  the  flesh  thick  and  fine  grained ;  pare  and  cut 
in  inch  cubes  and  cook  it  in  a  little  water  until  soft,  being  care- 
ful that  it  does  not  burn.  Then  press  through  a  colander,  put  it 
back  in  the  kettle  with  some  molasses  or  sugar  and  spice,  and 
let  it  mull  away  until  it  is  a  rich  red  amber  marmalade.  This 
must  be  done  a  day  or  two  before  the  pies  are  made,  for  it  is  a 
work  of  time.  One  cupful  of  such  pumkin  is  ample  for  a  deep 
pie,  and  real  pumkin  pie  is  never  baked  in  a  shallow  plate.  A 
proportion  for  a  pie  is  i  cupful  of  pumkin,  i  egg,  3  to  4  cups  of 
milk,  l/z  cupful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  J^  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  % 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  rather 
slowly. 

Summer  Mince  Pie. 

(H.  S.  B.) 

One  cup  rasins  chopped  fine,  3  cups  water,  3  cups  sugar,  y2  cup 
vinegar,  1  nutmeg,  1  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  all- 
spice and  ginger,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  8  crackers  rolled  fine. 
Cook  well  before  baking.     This  quantity  makes  four  or  five  pies. 

Mince  Meat. 

If  the  perfection  of  flavor  is  to  be  obtained,  mince-meat  should 
be  made  two,  or  better,  three  weeks  before  it  will  be  needed. 
If  made  according  to  the  following  recipe,  it  will  keep  all  Win- 
ter, and  the  quantity  given  will  make  a  great  many  pies  : 

Two  pounds  of  beef,  2  pounds  of  suet,  %  pound  of  candied 
lemon  peel,  2  pounds  of  layer  raisins,  1  quart  of  sherry,  1  quart 
of  good  brandy,  2  oranges  (juice  and  rind),  2  lemons  (juice  and 
rind),  2  tablespoon fulfs  of  salt,  4  pounds  of  apples,  2  pounds  of 
currants,  2  pounds  of  sultana  raisins,  1  pound  of  citron,  2  pounds 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  133 

of  sugar,  2  nutmegs  (grated),  %  ounce  of  mace,  y2  ounce  of  cin- 
namon, %  ounce  of  cloves. 

Cover  the  beef  with  boiling  water,  cook  it  gently  until  tender, 
and  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  it  is  cool,  chop  it  fine,  and  also 
the  suet  and  apples  ;  stone  the  layer^raisins  and  shave  the  citron. 
Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  well  together,  and  add  the  juice  and 
grated  rinds  of  the  lemons  and  oranges.  Mix  well,  pack  away 
in  a  stone  jar,  add  the  wine  and  brandy,  and  set  in  a  cool  place, 
closely  covered.  When  ready  to  use,  thin  the  requised  quantity 
with  cider. 

Pasadina  Orange  Pie. 

(K.  D.  Barnes.) 

Grated  rind  of  1  large  orange  and  juice  of  2,  1  cup  sugar,  yolks 
of  3  eggs.  Reserve  the  whites  for  the  meringue.  A  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  a  little  salt.     A  little  lemon  juice  adds  to  the  flavor. 

Filling  for  Lemon  Pie. 

(Edith  M.  Ryder.) 

Four  large  crackers  rolled  fine,  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  %  of 
a  cupful  of  sugar,  %  of  a  cupful  of  water,  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  a 
lump  of  butter.  Bake  with  one  crust.  Beat  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  spread  over  the  pie  when  baked. 

Apple  Roll. 

(Mrs.  Nellie  B.Hoyt.) 

Make  a  dough  a  little  richer  than  for  biscuit.  Roll  about  half 
inch  thick.  Chop  your  apples  fine  and  spread  the  dough  thick 
with  them.  Then  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Turn  the 
sides  toward  the  center  and  proceed  to  roll  it  up.  Bake  half  an 
hour.     To  be  eaten  with  cream  or  a  rich  wine  sauce. 

Old  Fashioned  Lemon  Pie. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 
The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  2  rolled  crackers,  1  egg, 


134  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK  . 

i  cupful  sugar,  %  cupful  water,  i  cupful  chopped  raisins,  i  table- 
spoonful  butter,  salt  and  spices  to  taste.     Bake   with  two  crusts. 

Pan  Dowdy. 

Line  a  deep  dish  with  paste  made  of  sweet  cream,  flour,  little 
salt  and  baking  powder.  Fill  the  dish  with  sour  apples  cut  in 
slices,  sweeten  with  )/z  cup  brown  sugar  and  .}  cup  molasses,  add 
salt  and  spices  to  taste,  place  across  the  top  of  the  apple,  thinly 
cut  stripes  of  fat  salt  pork.  Cover  with  crust  and  bake  half  an 
hour.     Serve  hot  with  sauce. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  135 

MEMORANDA. 


C.  W.  BARKER 


—SUCCESSOR  TO— 


Grocer  and  Dealer  in  Fine  Teas. 

12  lO  F=  STRE6T,  NORTHWEST 


Manufacturer's  Agent  for  the  Celebrated 
FLORENCE  OIL  STOVES, 

Shaw's  Cone  Gas  Stoves,  Florence  Light,  and  Pratt's  istral  Oils. 

AGENTS  WANTED. 
Telephone  or  postal  orders  promptly  executed. 


NO   LIQUORS    SOLD. 

Just  received  large    consignment   of  Nuts, 
Raisins  and  Fruits  suitable  for 

Holiday  trade, 

136 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  137 


PUDDINGS  and  SAUCES. 


' '  Your  dressing,  da?icing,  gadding,  where  is  the  good  in  ? 
Sweet  lady,  tell  me,  can  you  make  a  pudding  f* ' 

Puddings  are  either  baked,  boiled  or  steamed ;  rice,  bread, 
custard  and  fruit  puddings  require  moderate  heat;  batter  and 
corn  starch,  a  quick  oven.  Always  bake  them  as  soon  as  mixed. 
In  making  puddings,  always  beat  the  eggs  separately,  straining 
the  yolks  and  adding  the  white  the  last  thing.  When  fruit  is 
used,  roll  it  in  flour  and  stir  it  in  toward  the  last.  Boiled  pud- 
dings are  lighter  when  boiled  in  a  cloth,  bring  the  cloth  or  pud- 
ding-bag out  of  hot  water,  flour  the  inside,  pour  in  the  pudding, 
tie  securely  and  place  in  a  kettle  with  a  saucer  in  the  bottom  to 
prevent  burning  and  pour  in  boiling  water  to  cover  the  bag. 
Keep  it  boiling  constantly,  turning  several  times.  It  requires 
double  the  time  to  boil  that  it  does  to  bake  a  pudding.  Boiled 
puddings  should  be  served  as  soon  as  done.  Steaming  is  a  safter 
method  of  cooking,  as  the  pudding  is  sure  to  be  light  and  whole- 
some.    In  making  sauces,  do  not  boil  after  the  butter  is  added. 

Apple  Dumplings. 

(Mrs.  Keech.) 

Rub  equal  quantities  of  butter  and  lard  and  a  little  salt  into 
flour,  with  yeast  powder,  as  for  biscuit,  and  stir  through  this  the 
apples  chopped  fine.  Make  into  balls  and  drop  into  boiling 
water. 


138  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Plum  Pudding. 

(Mrs.  Chas.  Merrill.) 

Three  fourths  pouiid  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  i  pound  of  sugar, 
i  pound  of  grated  stale  bread,  i  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  i  pound 
of  currants,  y2  pint  of  milk  and  a  gill  of  brandy,  i  nutmeg,  y2 
teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  y  teaspoon  mace,  the  rind  and  juice  of  a 
lemon,  i  teaspoon  salt  and  nine  eggs.  Mix  all  the  ingredients 
except  the  eggs,  which  should  be  beaten  until  light  and  then 
added.     Steam  5  hours. 

Mother's  Suet  Pudding. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

One  cup  chopped  suit,  :  cup  stoned  raisins,  ]/2  cup  currents,  1 
cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  egg,  3  cups  flour,  salt  and  l/2  tea- 
spoonful  soda.     All  kinds  of  spices.     Steam  3  hours. 

Blueberry  Pudding. 

(Mrs.  Wm.  Merrill.) 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  molasses  or  sugar,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter  for  a  spoon  to  stand  in,  1  teaspoonful  soda, 
just  before  putting  in  a  quart  of  berries.  Steam  3  hours.  The 
success  of  the  pudding  is  said  to  be  in  adding  the  soda  the  last 
thing.    yz  makes  a  large  pudding.  Eat  with  liquid  or  hard  sauce. 

Snow  Pudding. 

(Miss  Helen  L,  Johnson,) 

Editor,  Table  Talk. 

Soak  yz  a  box  of  gelatine  in  y2  cup  of  cold  water  for  y2  an 
hour  ;  pour  over  it  1  pint  of  boiling  water  and  then  dissolve  ;  add 
%  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  and  x/2  of  a  cup  of  lemon 
juice ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  into  a  basin.  Stand 
when  it  is  cold,  not  only  until  the  liquid  has  cooled,  but  has  be- 
gun to  foam.     It  must  be  beaten  until  it  is  as  white  as  snow  be- 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  139 

fore  the  eggs  are  added.  Beat  the  white  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff 
white  froth.  Beat  them  into  the  mixture,  and  when  thoroughly 
mixed  snowy  white  and  stiff,  turn  into  a  mold  previously  wet  with 
cold  water.  The  liquid  settles  because  it  is  not  beaten  sufficient- 
ly, or  is  beaten  before  it  begins  to  foam.  It  must  be  beaten  stiff 
and  foam  before  the  eggs  are  added.  Then  there  is  no  danger  of 
their  rising. 

Banana  Pudding. 

(Miss  Helen  Johnson.) 
(Editor  Table  Talk.) 

Cut  stale  cake  in  thin  slices  and  line  a  dish  with  the  pieces. 
Cover  the  cake  with  bananas  sliced  very  thin.  Pour  over  this  a 
cupful  of  rather  thin  boiled  custard.  Make  another  layer  of  the 
cake  and  bananas,  and  cover  with  the  custard.  Set  away  in  the 
cold  until  time  to  serve. 

Rice  Pudding. 

("Home  Gleanings.") 

One-third  cup  rice,  1  quart  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  y2  cup 
sugar,  salt  and  vanilla.  Bake  slowly  for  4  hours,  stirring  oc- 
casionally the  first  hour. 

Steamed  Indian  Pudding. 

(Mrs.  L-  P.  Hosford.) 

Oue  pint  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  1%  cups  Indian  meal,  2  small  table- 
spoons beef  suet,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  %,  teaspoonful  each  of 
cinnamon  and  ground  ginger.  Little  salt,  pinch  of  soda.  Heat 
the  milk  boiling  hot,  add  the  soda  and  pour  upon  the  meal. 
Stir  well,  add  the  suet  powdered  and  the  salt.  When  this  mix- 
ture is  cold  put  with  it  the  eggs  beaten  light,  the  molasses  and 
the  spices,  and  beat  all  hard.  Turn  into  a  well  greased  mold  and 
steam  for  three  hours.  Eat  with  hard  sauce.  This  quantity  will 
serve  eight  or  ten  persons. 


140  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Indian  Pudding. 

(Mrs.  Buhsen.) 

One  quart  milk  ;  when  boiling  add  7  tablespoons  Indian  meal, 
1  cnp  cold  water.  Then  add  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  molasses  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  one  hour. 
Sweet  apples  or  raisins  may  be  added. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

(Harriman  Cook  Book.) 

One-half  cup  of  hot  water  poured  on  1  square  of  chocolate,  stir 
and  let  come  to  a  boil,  and  then  add  %  cup  of  milk,  l/2  cup 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch.  Boil  until  thick,  then  add 
1  pinch  of  salt  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Custard  for  Pudding. 

Boil  1  cup  of  milk,  add  1  egg,  x/2  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of 
corn  starch,  ]/2  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Boil  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  flavor  with  lemon. 

Gem  Peach  Pudding. 
(Mrs.    Bates.) 

Sift  well  together  2  cups  flour,  y2  teaspoonful  salt  and  1  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  yeast  powder.  Chop  in  2  ounces  butter  ;  beat  2 
eggs  light  and  add  to  ]/2  cup  water  ;  beat  briskly  and  stir  quickly 
into  the  flour,  making  a  very  stiff  batter  ;  beat  vigorously  ;  then 
drop  a  spoonful  of  batter  into  each  well  buttered  gem  pan,  place 
on  top,  half  a  peach  either  fresh  or  canned  ;  cover  with  another 
spoonful  batter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  30  minutes.  Serve 
hot  with  sweetened  cream.  This  quantity  will  make  8  little  pud- 
dings. 

Prune  Pudding. 

(Miss  Helen  Johnson.) 
(Editor  Table  Talk.) 
Wash  half  a  pound  of  prunes,  cover   with  cold  water  and  let 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

141 

stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  cook  until  tender,  then  pres 
through  a  colander  ;  add  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  stir  until  it  is  dissolved.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a 
stiff,  dry  froth,  add  them  carefully  to  the  prunes  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  at  once  with  cream. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Three  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  1  pint  of  milk.  Take  3  eggs — 
separate  yolks  from  white.  Beat  the  yolks  well  into  the  bread, 
using  1  egg  at  a  time,  adding  1  ounce  of  butter.  Take  half  a 
pound  of  desiccated  cocoanut,  and  mix  with  the  bread,  adding 
another  pint  of  milk,  sweetening  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  froth,  and  mix  with  the  compound  just  before  baking. 
Put  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  and  bake  for  one  hour. 

Cherry  Roly  Poly. 

(Miss  Worick.) 

Make  a  light  paste  as  for  apple  dumplings  ;  roll  in  oblong 
sheet  and  fill  with  cherries — sour  if  possible.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar,  roll  closely,  folding  the  end  over  carefully  to  preserve  the 
syrup.  Boil  in  a  pudding  bag  one  and  one-half  hours,  and  serve 
with  hot  sweet  sauce. 

Nesselrode  Padding. 

(Miss  Helen  L,.  Johnson.) 

(Editor  Table  Talk.) 

[Copyrighted.] 

One  pint  chestnuts,  yolks  4  eggs,  r  pint  cream,  1  tablespoonful 
vanilla,  1  cup  syrup  from  preserved  pineapple,  1  cup  water,  2 
ounces  citron,  2  ounces  candied  cherries,  2  ounces  pineapple,  2 
ounces  sultana  raisins,  1  pound  sugar. 

Shell   the   chestnuts,  remove   the   thin   brown   skins,    and  put 


142  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

them  in  a  saucepan  with  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover.  Sim- 
mer twenty  minutes  or  until  soft.  Mash  and  press  them  through 
a  colander.  Cut  the  fruit  in  small  pieces,  put  the  sugar  and  water 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  stir  until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread, 
add  to  it  the  cup  of  pineapple  syrup  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 
Scald  i  cup  of  cream.  Heat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light,  and 
add  to  the  scalded  cream  on  the  fire  and  stir  for  2  minutes.  Add 
the  chestnut  pulp  ;  mix  well,  take  from  the  fire,  and  press  through 
a  sieve.  When  cold  flavor  with  vanilla  and  sherry  and  freeze. 
When  nearly  frozen,  beat  in  the  fruit  and  the  remaining  cup  of 
cream  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Mix  well  with  a  spoon.  Cover  and 
finish  freezing.     Remove  the  dasher  and  pack. 

Orange  Pudding. 

(Harrison  Cook-Book.) 

Four  oranges,  slice  thin,  lay  in  deep  dish.  Pour  1  cup  sugar 
over  them  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Cream;  yz  cup  flour,  %  cup  sugar, 
yolks  3  eggs,  small  piece  butter,  vanilla.  Beat  all  together,  add 
1  pint  boiling  milk.  Heat  a  few  minutes  and  pour  over  oranges. 
Fiosting.— Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Put  this  on  the  cream  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Pudding  to  be 
eaten  cold. 

Lemon  Snow  Pudding. 

(Mrs.  Jay  F.  Bancroft.) 

Take  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  corn 
starch,  stir  into  them  1  pint  boiling  water  ;  cook  a  few  minutes, 
then  pour  it  over  the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Stir  all  together,  place 
in  cups  on  the  ice.  Make  a  custard  of  1  pint  milk,  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  ready 
to  serve  turn  the  snow  onto  plates  with  the  custard  around  it. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  143 

SAUCES. 
Hard  Sauce. 

(Miss  Helen  I,.  Johnson.) 

(Editor  Table  Talk.) 

[Copyrighted.] 

Beat  %  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  yi  of  a  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  stirring  constantly  and  beat  until  very  light.  Add 
the  unbeaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  1  at  a  time,  throughly  amalgamat- 
ing one  before  adding  the  next.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  stir 
until  well  mixed  ;  then  add  liquor  if  used,  1  tablespoonful  of 
sherry  or  brandy.  Mix  well,  mold,  and  put  in  the  ice  box  to 
harden  before  using. 

Spanish  Sauce. 

One-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  2 
tablespoonfuls .  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  cottolene,  1  cup 
sugar  or  molasses,  %  nutmeg. 

Cold  Cream  Sauce. 

Beat  together  a  cup  of  sugar  and  %  a  cup  of  butter  ;  add  a  cup 
of  cream.  Stir  all  to  a  thick,  even  liquid,  flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla,  and  place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Everyday  Sauce. 

A  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  heaping  teacup  of  sugar,  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Boil  l/z  an  hour.  Season  with 
nutmeg  or  flavor  with  a  tablespoonful  of  current  jelly  liquefied 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water. 

Foaming  Sauce. 

Melt  a  teacup ful  of  sugar  in  a  little  water  ;  let  it  boil ;  stir  in  a 
glass  of  wine  d,nd  whisk  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs. 
Serve  at  once. 


144  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

MEMORANDA. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  145 

MEMORANDA. 


jSTJD^p  gEtffllJ  l^htipl 


ROOMS. 


JOSEPH  H.  FISKE,  Manager. 


602    9TH    STREET, 
UNDER 

Masonic   Temple 


146 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  147 


DESSERTS  AND  FANCY 
DISHES. 


"  To  be  good,  be  usejul.     To  le  useful,  be  always  making  some 
thing  good. ' ' 

Desserts  were  never  more  delicious,  more  easily  prepared,  or 
more  to  the  taste  of  the  epicure  than  they  are  to-day. 

To  many  people,  the  dessert  of  desserts  is  figs  ;  one  fig  and  a 
slice  of  caramel  or  pound  cake  ;  the  second  choice  is  a  brandy- 
fig  with  cream  sponge  cake ;  cherries  with  walnut  cake  is  an- 
other delicate  finish  for  a  nice  dinner,  and  brandy  cherries  with 
angel  cake  will  be  found  equally  choice. 

A  saucerful  of  whipped  cream  made  very  sweet  and  decorated 
with  an  edging  of  big,  ripe  strawberries  is  good  to  eat  and  pretty 
to  look  at.  The  same  cream  moulded  in  a  wine  glass,  turned  out  on 
a  plate  and  encircled  with  tart  cranberry  jelly  is  a  dainty  dessert. 

Shaddock  Sherbert. 

(Miss  Helen  L.  Johnson.) 
(Editor  Table  Talk.) 
[Copyrighted.] 
Cut  6  shaddocks  into  halves.     Remove  the  seeds,  and  with  an 


148  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

orange  spoon,  take  out  the  pulp.  Put  2x/i  cups  of  sugar  over  the 
fire  with  1  cup  of  water ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  boil 
until  the  sirup  spins  a  thread.  Cover  2  tablespoon fuls  of  gelatine 
with  %  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  let  stand  for  %  hour.  Dissolve 
over  hot  water.  Add  the  hot  sirup  to  the  shaddock  pulp  with  the 
gelatine.     Let  cool,  press  through  a  sieve  and  freeze. 

Orange  Sherbert. 

(Mrs.  M.  C.  Currier.) 

Six  juicy  oranges.  After  pressing  out  the  juice  put  water  on 
pulp  to  get  out  remaining  juice,  if  oranges  are  sweet  add  juice 
of  2  or  3  lemons,  sweeten,  and  just  before  freezing,  add  1  pint  of 
good  cream.     Add  water  sufficient  to  make  y2  gallon. 

Tutti  Frutti. 

(Harriman  Cook-Book.) 

Sweeten  and  flavor  1  gallon  rich  cream  ;  when  partly  frozen, 
stir  in  1  can  pineapple,  citron,  raisins,  figs,  candies  and  freeze. 

Spanish  Cream. 

(Mrs.  James  Campbell.) 

One  pint  milk,  y2  package  of  gelatine  soaked  y2  an  hour  in  the 
milk,  then  put  in  a  kettle  and  stir  till  all  is  dissolved  and  the 
milk  reaches  the  boiling  point.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  1 
cup  of  sugar,  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Then  remove  from  the 
fire  and  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Beat  well,  then  pour  into  a  dish  and  set  on  the  ice. 

Apple  Float. 

(Mrs.  Wm.  Merrill.) 

One  pint  sifted  apple  sauce,  1  quart  rich  milk  or  cream. 
Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and 
freeze. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  149 

Peach  Glace  Meringue. 

(Miss  Helen  L.  Johnson.) 

Editor  Table  Talk.) 

[Copyrighted.] 

Scald  1  cup  of  cream,  add   \%  cups  of  sugar.     Stir  until  the 

sugar  is  dissolved  and  cook   until   the  cream  looks  blue — about 

five  minutes.     Take  from  the  fire,  add  1  cup  of  uncooked  cream, 

and,  when    cold,  1    teaspoonful   of  vanilla,  and   freeze.     Peel    1 

quart  of  peaches,  cut  in   pieces  and  press  through  sieve.     When 

the  cream  is  frozen,  add  the   peaches  ;  turn  the  dasher  rapidly 

until  they  are  well   stirred  in.     Remove  the  dasher.     Stir  down 

the  ice  cream  ;  cover  and  pack.     Let  stand  two  hours  to  ripen 

before  filling  meringue  shells. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

(Mrs.  Iv.  P.  Hosford.) 

Two  tablespoonfuls  tapioca  soaked  over  night.  Heat  1  pint 
of  milk  to  boiling.  Stir  in  the  tapioca  and  let  it  cook  a  few  min- 
utes. Add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  salt,  yz  cup  sugar,  cook  a  little 
and  when  taken  off  the  range  stir  in  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Shredded  Pineapples. 

(Miss  Elizabeth  C.  Hills.) 

Select  a  ripe,  juicy  pineapple,  remove  every  bit  of  the  skin  and 
all  the  "  eyes."  Then  lay  the  fruit  on  a  platter,  hold  it  firmly 
with  the  left  hand,  and  with  a  silver  fork  tear  off  the  pineapple 
in  small  pieces,  leaving  the  core  whole.  Put  the  shredded  fruit 
in  a  serving  dish,  sprinkle  generously  with  fine  granulated  sugar, 
cover,  and  let  stand  in  the  ice  chest  an  hour,  if  possible,  before 
serving.  This  method  of  preparing  it  draws  out  the  juice  and 
flavor  better  than  slicing,  and  makes  the  fruit  seem  much  more 
tender. 


150  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Charlotte  Russe, 

(Miss  Hattie  Barnes.) 
Soak  %  box  gelatine  in  %  cup  cold  water.  Line  a  pint  mold 
with  lady  fingers.  Chill  and  whip  i  pint  cream.  Set  bowl  in  ice 
water.  Sift  over  the  whipped  cream  %  cup  powdered  sugar,  add 
i  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  %  cup  boiling  water. 
Strain  it  into  the  cream  and  beat  rapidly.  When  nearly  stiff 
pour  into  mold  and  set  away  to  cool. 

Ice  Cream. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 
For  4  quarts  cream  when  frozen,  2  quarts  milk,  1  quart  cream, 
1  pound  pulverized  sugar,  l/2  box  gelatine.  Dissolve  the  gelatine 
into  the  warm  milk,  add  sugar,  lastly  the  cream,  flavor  to  taste  ; 
if  vanilla  is  used,  3  teaspoonfuls  are  sufficient.  Do  not  cook  it, 
but  freeze  at  once.  Freeze  sufficiently  hard  to  be  easily  dipped 
with  a  spoon  from  the  freezer  to  the  packing  can,  for  if  it  is 
frozen  too  hard,  the  cream  becomes  as  butter.  The  ice  and  salt 
hi  the  packing  tub,  around  the  can  will  complete  the  work. 
Fruit  of  any  kind  may  be  added. 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream. 

(Mrs.  E.  J.  Shephard.) 
Blanch  3  ounces  of  pistachio  nuts  and  chop  them  very  fine.  If 
they  seem  dry  cover  with  1  tablespoon ful  of  sherry  or  a  few 
drops  of  rose  water  and  let  stand  for  some  time  Scald  1  pint  of 
cream,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  stir  until  it  is  dissolved  and  cook 
until  the  cream  looks  blue  and  thin.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  1 
pint  of  raw  cream  and  cool.  When  cold,  add  the  nuts  and  flavor 
with  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  1  teaspoonful  of  pistachio,  extract 
and  color  a  delicate  green.     Turn  into  the  freezer  and  freeze. 

Orange  Water  Ice. 

(Mrs.  John  Patterson.) 
One  quart  water,  1  pound  sugar,  juice  of  4  oranges,  1  teaspoon- 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  151 

ful  Bakei  's  extract  of  lemon.  2  teaspoonful  Baker's  extract  of 
orange.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water,  add  the  orange  juice 
and  flavoring  extracts,  and  freeze. 

Cherry  Water  Ice. 

(Mrs.  Stephen  Rider.) 

Stone  1  pound  of  cherries  ;  put  1  pound  of  sugar,  with  1  pint  of 
water,  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved and  boil  for  10  minutes.  Pour  it  over  the  cherries  and  let 
stand  until  cooled,  then  squeeze  through  a  bag.  When  all  the 
juice  is  extracted,  color  a  delicate  lavender  and  flavor  with  two 
drops  of  nectarine  extract,  and  freeze. 

Sliced  Oranges. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Oranges  sliced  with  grated  cocoanut,  are  very  fine  to  eat  with 
cake.  Slice  the  oranges,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  let  stand  a  few 
hours.     Cover  with  cocoanut. 

Bananas  and  Whipped  Cream. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Cut  the  bananas  into  small  slices,  and  over  this  pour  cream 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Do  not  sweeten  the  cream  until  after  it  is 
whipped,  and  then  use  powdered  sugar.  Flavor  with  sherry  or 
brandy. 


P.  O.  McCOMAS, 

Pharmacist, 

1801  VERMONT  AVE.,  N.   W. 

WASHINGTON,  D.   C. 

Manufacturer  of 


EMULSOLHTUM. 

— FOR — 

H^-Coughs,  Colds  and  Consumption.-^ 


614  TWELFTH  STREET 


W.  L.  MATHEWS,: 

DEALER  IN 

Groceries,   Meats  and  Provisions, 

S.  W.  COK.  10TH  AND  S  STEEETS,  N.  W. 

152 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  153 


CAKES. 


11  With  weights  and  measures  just  and  true, 

Oven  of  even  heat, 
Well  hitter ed  tins  and  quiet  nerves 

Success  will  be  complete. ' ' 

Successful  cakermaking  depends  on  proper  materials  ;  a  cor- 
rect recipe;  following  directions  explicitly;  accurate  weights 
and  measurements  ;  compounding  the  ingredients  in  their  proper 
order  ;  regulating  the  temperature  of  the  oven  according  to  the 
kind  of  cake  made  ;  sifting  the  baking  powder  and  flour  to- 
gether two  or  three  times  ;  placing  in  the  oven  as  soon  as  the  bak- 
ing powder  is  added  ;  greasing  the  tin  with  Cottolene  rather  than 
butter,  and  sifting  a  little  dry  flour  over  ;  opening  and  shutting 
the  oven  door  very  gently  during  the  process  of  baking  ;  not 
turning  while  in  the  oven  if  it  can  be  avoided ;  keeping  fruit  over 
night  in  a  warm  room,  dredging  it  thoroughly  with  flour,  and 
stirring  it  in  lightly  the  last  thing  ;  lining  tins  for  loaf-cake  with 
oiled  paper. 

To  cream  the  butter,  if  it  be  hard,  pour  boiling  water  into  the 
bowl,  let  it  stand  a  minute,  empty,  wipe  the  bowl  dry,  and  put  in 
the  butter ;  work  with  a  heavy  spoon  until  soft,  then  beat  it  to  a 
cream;  add  the  sugar  next  and  beat  until*  white  and  creamy  ; 
add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  the  milk  or  water 
next,  a  little  at  a  time,  beating  well,  add  part  of  the  flour  and 
beat  from  three  tj  five  minutes  ;  last  add  the  flour  that  contains 


154  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

the  baking  powder  and  the  whites  at  the  same  time.  Whip  them 
lightly  and  quickly  in ;  do  not  beat  a  moment  after  they  are 
whipped  in.  Never  stir  a  cake ;  hold  the  bowl  in  a  slanting 
position,  and  whip  with  a  circular  motion  upward,  carrying  the 
spoon  out  of  the  batter  each  time  ;  this  incorporates  more  air 
than  by  the  stirring  method,  and  yields  a  fine-grained,  light,  and 
tender  cake  even  with  much  less  butter  than  when  carelessly 
made.  In  using  Cottolene  which  is  the  best  shortening,  put  a 
pinch  of  salt  in  the  flour. 

Always  flavor  a  cake. 

Sweet  milk  makes  a  cake  which  cuts  like  pound  cake.  Sour 
milk  makes  spongy  light  cake.  Do  not  use  both  in  the  same 
cake. 

For  rich  cakes  use  powdered  sugar.  For  plain  cakes  granla- 
ted  sugar.  For  fine  cakes,,  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs 
separately.  For  plain  cakes,  beat  both  together  thoroughly. 
Use  of  Cottelene  two-thirds  of  the  usual  quantity  of  shortening. 

In  baking  loaf  cake  remember  that  unless  you  place  a  piece  of 
paper  over  for  protection  at  first,  a  top  crust  will  be  formed  at 
once  that  prevents  the  raising.  When  cake  is  well  raised  re- 
move paper  for  browning  on  top. 

Set  a  dish  of  water  in  the  oven  with  cake  when  baking  and  it 
will  seldom  scorch. 

Two  apples  kept  in  the  cake  box  will  keep  moderately  rich 
cake  moist  for  a  length  of  time,  if  the  apples  are  renewed  when 
withered. 

Angel  Cake. 

Whites  of  ii  eggs,  x/z  cup  granulated  sugar  sifted  once,  i  cup 
flour  sifted  with  i  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  4  times,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  vanilla.  Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  40  minutes.  When  done 
invert  pan  on  two  cups  and  let  stand  until  cake  is  cold. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  155 

Every  Day  Cake. 

(Mrs.  Peetrey.) 

Two  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  sugar,  yz  cup  of  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  %  cup  of  milk,  z%  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder.     Bake  in  3  layers.     Use  any  desired  filling. 

Feather  Cake. 

(Mrs.  Flora  Sprague.) 

One  cup  white  sugar  ;  1  tablespoonful  butter ;  1  egg  ;  2  even 
cups  flour;  -A,  cup  of  milk;  \l/2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  flavor. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. 

(Mrs.  J.  F.  Bancroft.; 

Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  4  egg  whites,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  cup  corn  starch,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  2 
teaspoonfuls  extract  of  lemon.  Mix  in  the  order  named.  Bake 
^  of  an  hour,  or  until  done,  with  a  steady  fire. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  yi  cup  boiling  water  just  before  putting  in  the  oven. 
Bake  20  minutes.     The  above  can  be  baked  in   layers  if  desired. 

Caramel  Cake. 

Three-fourths  cup  butter,  1%  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  %  cup  water, 
1%  cups  flour,  3  ounces  melted  chocolate,  3  teaspoonfuls  yeast 
powder.  For  filling,  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs, 
gill  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Pour  boiling  water  on 
sugar  and  boil  until  it  will  candy  in  water,  then  pour  syrup  on  2 
eggs  well  beaten  and  add  vanilla. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake. 

(Mrs.  W.  L.  Hart.) 
Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoon fuls  sweet 


156  THK  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

milk,  1  heaping  teaspoouful  of  baking  powder,  1  cup  sugar,  flavor 
and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven,  remove  from  pan,  and  lay  on  a 
cloth  wet  with  cold  water.  Spread  with  jelly  and  roll  quickly, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Ice  Water  Sponge  Cake. 

(Mrs.  Chas.  Merrill.) 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  il/2  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  ]/z  cup 
ice-water,  and  il/2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Beat  yolks  and 
sugar  with  1  tablespoouful  of  water,  thoroughly.  Better  than  any 
tea-egg  cake  ever  eaten. 

English  Walnut  Cake. 

(Miss  Helen  S.  Foster.) 

One-half  cup  butter,  \%.  cups  sugar,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  whites  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  nuts 
chopped.  Frost  and  cut  in  square  pieces,  placing  one  half  of  a 
nut  upon  each  square. 

Pasadena  Orange  Cake. 

(Mrs.  K.  D.  Barnes.) 

One  cup  sugar,  butter  about  size  of  an  egg,  2  eggs  beaten  sep- 
arately, %  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Flavor.  Bake  in  layers.  Icing. — Take  white  of  1  egg,  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  1  orange.  Add  enough  sugar  to  make  a  smooth 
icing  and  one  that  will  spread  easily  without  running  off.  Spread 
between  layers  and  on  top. 

Marble  Cake. 

(Mrs.    Wilcox.) 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
3  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  flavor  to  suit. 
When  mixed  take  a  teaspoonful  of  batter  and  stir  in  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  chocolate  and  a  little  milk,fill  your  pan  with  about  an  inch  of 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  157 

the  cake  and  drop  in  2  or  3  places  a  spoonful  of  the  dark  mate- 
rial and  then  another  layer  of  cake  and  so  on. 

White  Cake. 

(Mrs.  A.  Fisher.) 

Two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  flour  with 
2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  10  eggs, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  %  cup  of  sweet  milk. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Ribbon  Cake. 

(Miss  S.  Maria  Davis.) 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  3  eggs,  3  cups  flour, 
2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Use  enough  of  the  above  for  2 
layers.  Into  the  remaining,  put  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  %  cup 
citron,  2  tablespoon fuls  of  molasses,  spices  of  all  kinds,  %.  tea- 
spoonful  of  each.  Add  a  little  more  flour  and  bake  as  one  layer. 
Put  layers  together  with  jelly  or  cooked  frosting. 

Lemon  Layer  Cake. 

(Miss  Helen  S.  Foster.) 

One  half  cup  butter,  y2  cup  milk,  %,  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  3 
eggs  beaten  separately,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder.  Filling,  1 
lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  boiled  water,  1  cup  eggs,  1  tablespoonful 
corn  starch,  piece  butter  size  of  a  walnut.     Cook  in  double  boiler. 

Wedding  Cake. 

(Mrs.  Flora  Sprague.) 

Two  pounds  sugar,  2  pounds  butter,  2  pounds  flour,  6  pounds 
raisins,  2  pounds  figs  (chopped),  2  pounds  currants,  2  pounds 
almonds,  1%  pounds  citron,  20  eggs,  1  pint  brandy,  1  pint  wine, 
1  ounce  nutmeg,  1  onnce  mace,  1  ounce  cinnamon,  1  ounce 
cloves.     This  will  keep  for  years. 


158  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Molasses  Layer  Cake. 

(Mrs.  Wilcox.) 

One  cup  of  sugar,  l/2  cup  of  molasses,  %  cup  butter,  %  cup 
buttermilk,  3  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sepa- 
rately, 1  teaspoonful  of  scda,  1  of  cinnamon,  ]/z  of  cloves  pul- 
verized sugar  and  lemon  juice  between  the  layers. 

Ginger  Bread, 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

One  cup  molasses,  >^  cup  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water,  %  cup 
cottolene,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  1  teaspoonful  ginger,  pinch  of  salt, 
flour  to  make  very  stiff  batter. 

Pound  Cake. 

(Mrs.  H.  D.  Bates.) 

Beat  6  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  1  pound  sugar,  l/z  pound  butter. 
Beat  well  together.  Add  1  pound  flour,  well  mixed  with  2  scant 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  ;  flavor  to  taste.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 

Fruit  Cake. 

(Mrs.  J.  W.  Webb.) 

One  pound  flour,  1  pound  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1%  pound 
butter,  10  eggs,  8  pounds  raisins,  4  pounds  currants,  2  pounds 
citron,  2  pounds  figs,  y2  pound  orange  peel,  yz  pound  blanched 
almonds,  1  wine  glass  rose  water,  1  wine  glass  sherry,  1  wine 
glass  brandy.  Mix  butter  and  sugar  together  thoroughly,  after 
which  add  eggs,  then  flour  and  fruit,  which  must  be  chopped  fine. 

White  Fruit  Cake. 

(Mrs.  Sprague.) 

Sift  1  pound  of  flour  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Cream  1  pound  of  sugar  and  l/z  a  pound  of  butter  together,  mix 
with  the  flour,  beat  well  and  add  1  teacup  of  sliced  citron,  1  cup 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  159 

of  blanched  almonds,  1  teacup  of  stoned  raisins  and  3  of  grated 
cocoanut,  lastly  stir  in  carefully  the  well-beaten  whites  of  14 
eggs,  thin  with  %.  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  pour  in  a  greased 
mold.     Bake  two  hours. 

Plain  Raisin  Cake. 

(Mrs.  H.  D.  Bates.) 

One  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  1 
egg,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  spice  to  taste. 

To  Make  Icing  Stick. 

Sift  flour  over  the  cake  and  then  wipe  off  with  a  napkin. 
[Miss  Helen  L.  Johnson  says  in  Table  Talk.] 

The  various  icings  used  by  the  pastry  cook  and  confectioner 
are  compounded  in  a  different  way  from  the  numerous  home 
icings,  the  latter,  being  as  a  general  rule,  preferable.  Confec- 
tioners usually  put  on  several  coatings  of  icings,  allowing  each 
to  dry  before  adding  the  next.  The  first  is  what  is  called  the 
rough  coat  and  is  used  to  set  the  crumbs  so  that  they  may  not 
show  through  the  surface  of  the  finished  cake. 

Transparent  Icing. 

(Miss  Helen  ly.  Johnson.) 

Dissolve  1%,  cups  of  granulated  sugar  in  %  cup  of  water.  Let 
it  boil  without  stirring  until  it  forms  a  ball  when  picked  up  in 
the  forefinger.  Take  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  it  becomes  a 
little  cloudy.  Put  in  the  farina  boiler  and  melt ;  let  cool  until, 
when  poured  on  the  cake,  it  will  form,  or  if  the  cakes  are  small 
they  can  be  dipped  in  it. 

Confectioner's  Icing. 

The  whites  of  2  eggs,  the  same  quantity  of  water  ;  stir  very 
thick  with  confectioner's  sugar  and  flavor  to  suit  fancy.  Many 
use  water  without  the  eggs,  but  the  sugar  must  be  the  specia  1 
kind  called  XXX. 


160  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

For  pink  icing,  add  a  few  drops  of  cochineal  or  beet  juice  to 
any  white  icing.  Yellow  may  be  made  by  using  a  spoonful  of 
saffron  water  or  two  or  three  drops  of  butter  color,  or,  betterl 
still,  simply  beat  the  yolks  quite  stiff  with  the  sugar.  If  green 
is  desired,  use  a  little  spinach  juice.  Brown  is  made  with  cocoa 
or  chocolate. 

Delicate  Icing. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  3  spoonfuls  of  water;  boil  until  it  ropes,  then 
pour  slowly  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Flavor  with  almond  or  rose,  spread  while  warm.  Add 
cocoanut  if  desired. 

Fig  Filling  for  Cake. 

(S.  M.  D.) 

One  half  pound  figs  boiled  in  water  to  keep  from  burning,  when 
soft  chop  with  %  cup  of  raisins  (seeded).  Add  1  cup  sugar,  juice 
of  1  lemon. 

Chocolate  Frosting. 

(H.S.B.) 

One  cup  sugar,  2  squares  chocolate,  6  tablespoonfuls  milk. 
Boil  until  cooked  sufficiently  to  harden,  then  put  on  the  cake — 
flavor  with  vanilla. 

Caramel  Frosting. 

(H.  S.  B.) 

Two-thirds  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  walnut,  2  cups  sugar.  Boil 
10  minutes,  flavor  with  vanilla,  beat  till  cold. 

Icing  That  Will  not  Crack. 

Icing  for  cakes  may  be  prevented  from  cracking  when  being 
cut  by  adding  1  teaspoonful  of  sweet  cream  to  each  unbeaten 
egg ;  beat  all  together  and  add  sugar  until  as  stiff  as  can  be 
stirred. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  161 

A  Delicious  Shortcake. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Mix  i  pint  of  flour,  i  large  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and 
]A,  cup  of  shortening.  Moisten  with  milk.  While  this  is  baking, 
slice  bananas  in  proportion  of  3  to  1  orange,  grate  a  little  lemon 
peel  and  mix  with  1  cup  of  sugar.  When  the  cake  is  baked, 
split  it  and  fill  with  the  fruit.  Beat  enough  cream  stiff  to  pile 
over  the  top  of  the  cake. 

Apricot  Shortcake. 

(Mrs.    Currier.) 

Three  cups  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  l/z  teaspoonful 
salt,  Yj,  cup  butter.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  beat  1  egg 
thoroughly,  add  1  cup  milk  and  stir  into  flour.  Put  dough  into 
2  shallow  pans,  sprinkle  tablespoonful  of  sugar  over  each  layer, 
bake  in  hot  oven  15  minutes.  Strain  syrup  from  a  quart  can  of 
apricots,  mash  y2  the  fruit  and  sweeten  to  taste,  spread  between 
the  layers  and  on  top. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. 

(Mrs.  Rogers.) 

Two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  sifted  into  1  quart  flour,  scant 
%.  cup  butter,  2  tablespoon fuls  sugar,  little  salt,  enough  sweet 
milk  or  water  to  make  a  soft  dough,  roll  out  into  two  layers, 
placing  one  on  the  other  with  a  little  flour  and  butter  between 
the  layers.  Bake  15  minutes.  Separate  the  layers.  Spread  the 
bottom  layer  with  strawberries  previously  sweetened  with  pul- 
verized sugar.  Whip  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  spread  on  top  layer  and  dot  with  whole  berries. 
Raspberry  and  peach  shortcake  can  be  made  in  same  way. 

Snow  Drops. 

One  cup  butter,  1  small  cup  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  5  egg  whites,  3 
cups  flour,   1  teaspoonful   baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  extract 


162  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

nutmeg  or  vanilla.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add 
the  egg  whites,  well  beaten,  milk,  baking  powder  and  flour  sifted 
together,  and  then  the  flavoring  extract.  Bake  in  small  round 
tins. 

Sand  Tarts, 

(Miss  Wister.) 

Three  ounces  Cottolene  ;  2  pounds  flour ;  2  pounds  sugar ;  3 
eggs. 

Cut  the  Cottolene  up  in  the  flour,  then  add  the  sugar  and  eggs; 
roll  them  ;  cut  in  squares ;  wet  the  top  with  a  feather  dipped  in 
egg ;  put  thin  strips  of  the  dough  across  the  top,  and  sprinkle 
with  powdered  almonds  and  cinnamon. 

Gocoanut  Drops. 

(Miss  Wister.) 

Two  cups  cocoanut ;  1  cup  sugar  ;  1  tablespoonful  flour  ;  1  egg 
white,  beaten  stiff. 

Drop  on  buttered  paper  and  sift  sugar  over  them  ;  bake  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

Dominoes. 

(Mrs.  F.  U  Gillette.) 

Take  1  cup  sugar  ;  1  egg ;  1  cup  sweet  milk ;  2  cups  flour  ;  1 
level  tablespoonful  cold  Cottolene  ;  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder ;  flavor  to  taste. 

Have  a  plain  cake  baked  in  shallow  biscuit  tins,  half  an  inch 
deep.  When  cool  cut  into  small  oblong  pieces  the  size  and 
shape  of  dominoes,  a  trifle  larger.  Frost  the  top  and  sides  of 
each  piece.  When  the  frosting  is  hard  enough,  draw  the  lines 
and  dots  by  dipping  a  camel's  hair  brush  in  chocolate  icing,  mak- 
ing them  correspond  with  dominoes.  Nice  for  children's  parties, 
picnics,  etc. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  163 

Lemon  or  Vanilla  Cookies. 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  Cottolene,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  5 
cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  power  and  a  little  salt, 
which  must  be  sifted  into  the  flour.  Mix  all  together  and  add 
lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring  to  taste.  Sprinkle  cocoanut  on  top. 
Roll  very  thin  and  bake  quickly. 

Doughnuts. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

One  quart  of  flour,  2  rounding  teaspoonfuls  baking  power,  1 
cup  of  milk,  (sour  milk  may  be  used,  with  y2  teaspoonful  soda), 
1  cup  sugar,  1  saltspoonful  ground  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  1  salt- 
spoonful  salt,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  Cottolene  (after  it  has  been 
melted).     Fry  in  hot  Cottolene. 

Hermits. 

(Mrs.Wm.  Merrill.) 

One  cup  sugar,  yz  cup  milk,  1  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful 
baking  powder,  1  cupfchopped  raisins  or  currants,  all  kinds  of 
spice,  except  ginger,  flour  to  roll.     If  made  of  sour  milk,  use  soda. 

Sweedish  Timbals. 

(Mrs.  Iy.  M,  C.) 

One  pint  of  flour  less  2  tablespoonfuls,  %,  pint  sweet  milk,  3 
eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  stir  flour  and 
milk  to  a  perfectly  smooth  batter,  add  oil  and^salt,  then  eggs. 

Lemon  Queens. 

(Mrs.  Wm.  Merrill.) 

Four  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  \%  cups  flour,  y  tea- 
spoonful soda,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  and  a  little  of  the 
grated  rind.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add  sugar  gradually,  then 
add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon,  then  yolks  of  eggs  beaten, 


164  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

then  the  flour  with  the  soda  in  it,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Bake  in  rings,  and  when  taken  from  the  oven,  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

(Mrs.  M.  T.  Allyn.) 

One  cup  of  molasses,  i  teaspoonful  of  soda,  %  of  a  cup  of  melted 
lard,  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  roll 
out.  Must  be  rolled  very  thin.  Set  the  molasses  on  the  stove, 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  the  soda,  then  the  ginger  and  lard, 
after  which  take  from  the  stove  and  add  the  flour.  Bake  in  hot 
oven. 

Ginger  Cookies. 

(Clara  Foggs.; 

One  cup  of  molasses  put  on  the  stove  to  boil,  while  this  is  boil- 
ing take  Yz  cup  sugar,  i  egg,  i  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  beat 
thoroughly  i  teaspoonful  of  soda,  stir  into  the  hot  molasses  dry, 
pour  that  slowly  over  the  egg  and  stir  quickly.  Flour  enough 
to  roll  smooth.  Before  you  put  flour  in,  put  in  i  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar. 

Shrewsbury  Cookies. 

(Mrs.  H.  E.  W.) 

One  pound  flour,  i  pound  sugar,  J4  pound  butter,  3  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  ground  cinnamon.  Mix  butter  and  flour,  then  add 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Mix  into  a  paste  with  the  eggs,  roll  out 
thin. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  165 

MEMORANDA. 


D.  E.  Kleps  &  Co. 


*   ■ 

DEALERS  IN 


BUTTER,  EGGS,    AND   DRIED    FRUITS,  CANNED   GOODS 
AND  PRESERVES. 


OfGARS     AJSTO    TOBACCO. 


Telephone  1628.  Corner  New  Jersey  Ave.  and  R  St.  N.  W. 

166 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  167 


PRESERVES_and  JELLIES. 

' '  Give  a  husband  what  he  likes, 

And  save  a  hundred  household  strikes. ' ' 

Oi,D  Rhymes. 

Strawberry  Preserves. 

(Miss  Helen  Iy.  Johnson.) 
[Editor  Table  Talk.] 
Add  1  cup  of  boiling  water  to  2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  and 
stir  over  hot  water  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Put  the  kettle 
over  the  fire,  add  2  pounds  of  strawberries,  and  simmer  gently  for 
10  minutes,  5  minutes  longer  if  the  fruit  does  not  look  clear. 
Skim  out  the  fruit  very  gently,  lay  on  platters  and  put  in  the  hot 
sun  while  the  syrup  is  being  boiled  down.  Boil  the  syrup  until  it 
is  thick  and  rich,  strain  off  any  thin  syrup  caused  by  the  stand- 
ing of  the  berries  in  the  sun,  and  add  the  berries  to  the  thick 
syrup.     Fill  the  cans  and  screw  down  the  tops  immediately. 

Hodge  Podge. 

(Mrs.  Keech.) 
One  half  peck  quinces,   ]/z  peck  pears,    l/2  peck  peaches,  >£ 
pound  sugar  and  1  gill  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 

Tomato  Figs. 

(Miss  Curry.) 
Select  quite  ripe  yellow  pear  tomatoes.     Scald  and  remove  the 
skins.     Place  the  tomatoes  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  cover  with 
sugar,  using  yz  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.     Stew 


368  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

slowly  over  a  moderate  fire  until  the  sugar  has  penetrated  the 
fruit.  Lifting  each  tomato  carefully  with  a  spoon,  spread  them 
on  dishes  and  stand  them  in  the  sun  i  or  2  days  to  dry,  sprinkling 
with  granulated  sugar  several  times  during  the  drying.  When 
perfectly  dry  pack  in  jars,  with  layers  of  sugar.  Do  not  allow 
any  moisture  to  fall  on  the  fruit  while  drying. 
Grape  Jelly. 
(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

The  grapes  should  be  used  before  they  get  ripe,  when  they  are 
just  turning  ;  stem  and  slightly  cook  them  ;  then  strain  through 
a  jelly  bag,  place  the  liquid  again  in  the  preserving  kettle  and 
allow  it  to  come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point ;  let  it  boil  for  15 
minutes,  meanwhile  skimming  it  with  care  ;  to  every  pint  of  juice 
now  add  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  which  has  been  previously 
warmed  in  shallow  pans  but  not  allowed  to  melt ;  let  the  mixture 
boil  5  minutes  and  then  pour  into  jelly  glasses  and  set  it  away  to 
cool. 

Crabapple  and  currant  jelly  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Cherry  Jelly. 

Dissolve  a  box  of  best  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  for  an 
hour,  then  add  a  pint  of  boiling  cherry  juice,  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Strain  through  a  flannel  jelly  bag,  and  pour  into  the  moulds  tha* 
have  been  dipped  in  cold  water.  Place  on  ice  and  let  them  stand 
over  night.  When  ready  to  serve,  loosen  the  edges  and  turn  on 
glass  dishes. 

Gooseberry  Jam. 

Time,  1%  hours;  }(  pound  loaf  sugar  to  1  pound  red  gooseber- 
ries. Pick  off  stalks  and  buds  from  gooseberries,  bruise  them 
lightly,  boil  them  quickly  for  3  to  10  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time ;  then  add  sugar,  pounded  and  sifted  to  fruit,  boil  quickly, 
removing  scum  as  it  rises.  Put  into  pots,  when  cold  cover  as 
above.     All  jams  are  made  much  in  the  same  way. 


WM,  W,  WONN'S 


Jce   QWM  SSqonI 


721  6t\\  St.,  Between  G  and  H  Streets,  N,  W. 


WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 


PARTIES,  RECEPTIONS,  WEDDINGS,  FAIRS,  ETC, 

FURNISHED  AT  THE  SHORTEST 

NOTICE  ON  REASONABLE 

TERMS, 
169 


E.  J.  BENTLEY, 

IDEALEB    X35T 

Coal,  Coke  and  Wood, 

FLOUR,  HAY,  GRAIN  5c. 

MAIN  OFFICE  AN!}  YAED  : 
No.  1542  N.  Capitol  St.,  Cor.  Florida  Ave. 

BRANCH  OFFICE : 

No.    1412   V   St.   N.    W. 

2240    lEOTTILTIDS    TO    TZHIE    TOIfcT- 


W®®9  SAWE©  AN©  SPLIT 

in  any  length  and  size,  and  kept  under  cover. 

ITERMS   GASH.^ 

170 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  171 


CANDIES. 


"  Holdfast  that  which  is  good." 

Granulated  sugar  is  preferable.  Candy  should  not  be  stirred 
while  boiling.  Cream  tartar  should  not  be  added  until  syrup 
begins  to  boil.  Butter  should  be  put  in  when  candy  is  almost 
done.  Flavors  are  more  delicate  when  not  boiled  in  candy,  but 
added  afterward. 

Never,  when  pouring  out  candy,  scrape  the  saucepan  over  it,, 
or  allow  any  of  the  scrapings  of  the  saucepan  to  fall  into  it. 
Always  use  a  thick  saucepan,  in  which  to  boil  sugar. 

French  Candy. 

(Mrs.  Keech.) 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  confectioner's  sugar  (4x),  1  pint 
grated  cocoanut,  white  of  1  egg  mixed  in  1  tablespoonful  cold 
water  and  a  little  flavoring.  Knead  like  dough.  Make  out  and 
mix  with  nuts. 

Cream  Candy. 

(Mrs.  J.  F.  Bancroft.) 

One  pound  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  water. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  ;  stir  very  little.  When  the  candy  stiffens  by 
dropping  a  few  drops  in  cold  water,  it  is  done.  Pull  until  it 
grows  white. 


172  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Candied  Pop-Corn. 

(Mrs.  C.  W.  F.) 

Put  into  an  iron  kettle  i  tablespoonful  batter,  3  tablespoonfuls 
water,  r  teacupful  white  pulverized  sugar.  Boil  until  ready  to 
candy,  then  throw  in  3  quarts  of  nicely  popped  corn.  Stir  briskly 
till  candy  is  evenly  distributed  over  corn.  Take  kettle  from  fire, 
stir  until  it  is  cooled  a  little  and  you  have  each  grain  separate 
and  crystallized  with  sugar,  taking  care  that  corn  does  not  burn. 
Nuts  of  any  kind  prepared  in  same  way. 

Efferton  Taffy. 

(Mrs.  A.  G.  Rogers.) 

This  is  a  favorite  English  confection.  To  make  it,  take  3 
pounds  of  the  best  brown  sugar  and  boil  with  i}£  pints  of  water, 
until  the  candy  hardens  in  cold  water.  Then  add  y2  pound  of 
sweet  flavored  fresh  butter,  which  will  soften  the  candy.  Boil  a 
few  minutes  until  it  again  hardens  and  pour  it  into  trays.  Flavor 
with  lemon  if  desired. 

Peppermint. 

(Mrs.  James  Campbell.) 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  yz  cup  of  cold  water.  Let  it  boil 
three  minutes.  Beat  in  6  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar, 
scant  y2  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  10  drops  peppermint. 
Drop  it  with  a  teaspoon. 

Caramels. 

(E.  J.  F.) 

Three  pounds  brown  sugar,  1  cake  chocolate,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup 
water  and  good  size  piece  butter.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  When 
done,  beat  15  minutes  ;  put  in  a  pan  ;  cut  into  squares  when  cool. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  173 


MISCELLANEOUS 


"  Last  but  not  least. ." 

To  Prepare  Curry  Powder. 

One  ounce  ginger,  1  ounce  mustard,  1  ounce  pepper,  3  of  cori- 
ander seed,  3  of  turmeric,  %  ounce  cardamons,  %  ounce  cay- 
enne pepper,  %  ounce  cinnamon,  and  %.  ounce  cumin  seed. 
Pound  fine,  sift  and  cork  tight  in  bottle. 

Washing  Fluid. 

One  pound  Babbit's  potash,  1  ounce  salts  of  tartar,  1  ounce 
borax,  1  ounce  ammonia,  4  quarts  boiling  water.  Make  in  a  tin 
or  wooden  bucket  and  bottle  when  cool.  Use  1  teacupful  to  3 
pails  of  water,  and  a  very  little  soap. 

To  Wash  Blankets. 

(Mrs.  Gwathmey.) 

Seven  gallons  water  in  boiler,  ]/z  pound  ivory  soap  dissolved  in 
water.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  kerosene  oil.  Let  steam  but  not 
boil ;  rinse  in  two  waters  having  the  water  warm ;  wring  dry, 
shake  well,  hang  in  hot  sun.  This  recipe  will  wash  two  large 
blankets.  Keep  in  boiler  about  %.  hour,  constantly  stirring  with 
a  stick.  No  rubbing  is  necessary.  Two  grains  of  pulverized 
burnt  alum  added  to  1  gallon  of  water,  will  cause  turbid  water  to 
be  as  clear  as  well  water. 


PHONE   176  FOR 

BREAD!  BREAD!  BREAD! 

If  you  want    good,   clean,  wholesome,  palatable  bread,  use 

BOSTON 
AKERY 
READ.  Wwe  make  all  kinds,  and  use  only  the  best,  pure  in- 
gredients. Every  loaf  we  make  bears  our  label,  accept  none 
without  it.  Our  latest  production  excells  all  other  bread,  we  re- 
fer to  our  "  Nickel  Bread,"  nickel  by  name,  and  costs  a  nickel 
and  is  labeled  '-'  Boston  Bakery  Nickel  Bread."  Be  sure  to  look 
for  our  name,  as  it  will,  like  all  good  things,  have  many  inferior 
imitations. 

BOSTON 
AKERY 
n  t*/\  1— * , 

119, 121, 123  First  Street.   Foot  of  Capitol  Grounds. 

Notify  us  if  your  grocer  doesn't  sell  our  goods. 

SCHOOL  OF  COOIMY, 

1228  N  STREET,  N.   W. 

Lessons  in  all   kinds  of  cookery  are  given  to    ladies  and 
servants  at  moderate  prices  by  Miss  Adelaide  Payne. 

Minion  Employment!  Bureau, 

1228     N   STREET,   N.  W. 

Reliable  servants  both  white  and   colored  are  furnished  by 

MRS.   E.   J.  DUVALL. 

Fee,  one  dollar  for  ladies.      Fifty  cents  for  servants. 

174 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  175 

To  Clarify  Grease, 

To  clarify  grease  of  any  kind,  cut  a  potato  in  slices,  drop  into 
the  hot  grease,  fry  a  dark  brown  and  your  fat  is  pure  and  clean 
for  cooking. 

Brown  Bread. 

(Miss  Adelaide  Payne.) 

(School  Cookery.) 

One  cup  of  yellow  Indian  meal ;  1  cup  of  Graham  flour  ;  1  cup 
of  sour  milk  ;  2  cups  of  sweet  milk  ;  yz  a  cup  of  molasses  ;  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  ;  1  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Sift  the  Graham, 
then  mix  it  with  the  Indian  and  rye.  Stir  the  soda  in  the  sour 
milk  until  thoroughly  dissolved ;  add  the  salt,  sweet  milk,  mo- 
lasses and  stir  all  into  the  dry  mixture,  beating  until  perfectly 
smooth.  Grease  your  brown  bread  mold  or  tin,  cover  tightly  and 
steam  for  five  hours.  If  a  hard  crust  is  desired,  steam  four 
hours,  then  put  in  the  oven  for  one  hour. 

Lemon  Cream. 

(Miss  Adelaide  Payne.) 

(School  Cookery.) 

Four  eggs  ;  6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  ;  the  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  ;  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
hot  water.  Separate  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  from  the  whites.  Beat 
the  yolks  light ;  then  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 
the  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Stir  well;  then  add  the  hot  water, 
mixing  all  well  together.  Cook  this  mixture  in  a  double  boiler 
until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
cutting  it  in.  Remove  the  yolk  mixture  from  the  fire  and  cut  in 
gently  the  whites,  folding  and  cutting  in,  until  the  two  are  well 
mixed.  Turn  into  a  glass  dish  and  serve  very  cold, 
use  less  lemon  juice. 


176  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Points  About  Salt. 

Ink  stains  can  be  entirely  removed  by  the  immediate  applica- 
tion of  dry  salt  before  the  ink  has  dried.  When  the  salt  has 
become  discolored  by  absorbing  the  ink,  brush  it  off  and  apply 
more,  wetting  it  slightly.  Continue  this  until  the  ink  is  all  re- 
moved.— Dampened  salt  will  remove  the  discoloration  of  cups 
and  saucers  caused  by  tea  and  careless  washing. — New  calicoes 
and  stockings  should  be  allowed  to  lie  in  salt  water  for  an  hour 
before  the  the  first  wash,  to  set  the  colors. — To  cool  a  hot  dish 
quickly,  set  it  in  a  pan  full  of  cold  salt  water,  which  will  cool  it 
more  rapidly  than  water  free  from  salt. — A  teaspoonful  of  salt  in 
each  kerosene  lamp  makes  the  oil  give  a  clearer  and  much  better 
light  and  it  is  claimed  saves  the  oil  as  well. — Willow-ware  can 
best  be  cleaned  by  a  solution  of  salt  and  water. — To  clean  door 
matting,  wash  it  with  weak  salt  and  water,  and  dry  it  well. — Salt 
dissolved  in  alcohol  is  often  good  for  removing  grease  spots  from 
cloth. — Salt  will  curdle  new  milk  ;  so  in  preparing  custard  and 
porridges,  salt  should  not  be  added  until  the  last  thing. — If  your 
coal  fire  is  low,  throw  on  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  it  will  help 
it  very  much. — -.To  make  whites  of  eggs  beat  quickly,  put  in  a 
pinch  of  salt. 

Hop  Tea. 

A  large  spoonful  of  hops,  simmer  in  a  pint  of  water.  When 
strong  enough,  strain  off  and  add  white  sugar.  A.  quieting  drink, 
excellent  for  nervous  headache. 

Polish  for  Old  Furniture. 

Alcohol  Yz  pint,  shellac  and  rosin  each  %  ounce  ;  after  these 
have  dissolved  in  the  alcohol,  add  ]/2  pint  linseed  oil ;  shake 
well.  Apply  with  a  sponge  or  brush,  or  canton  flannel,  rubbing 
it  well  after  the  application,  which  gives  a  nice  polish. 

t  To  Remove  Tar. 

Rub  well  with  lard.     Afterwards  wash  in  warm  water  and  soap  # 


THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  177 

INDEX   TO    ADVERTISERS. 


Artist.— Mrs.  C.  W.  Smiley,  943  Mass.  ave.  21 

Butter.— W.  S.  Detwilder,  Center  market.  33 

E.  T.  Gibbons,  K  St.  market.  37 

Eiker,  all  markets.  25 

D.  Wm.  Oyster,  Center  market.  5o 
G.  W.  Story,  K  St.  market.  3 

Bromo  Pepsin. — All  Druggists.  12 

Baking  Powder. — Imperial,  ail  grocers.  vi 

Baths.—  Hosford  Electric,  918  H  St.,  N.  W.  82 

Welcome  Foot,  Bentley's  drug  store.  94 

Bakery. — Boston.  174 

Bird  Store.— E.  S.  Schmid,  712,  12th  St.,  N.  W.  17 

Cyclopaedia. — D.  Appleton,  437  7th  St.,  N.  W.  108 

Coal.— M.  Sells,  1840  14th  St.,  N.  W.  170 

V.  Baldwin  Johnson,  hoi  R.  I.  ave.  66 

Johnson  Bros.,  1206  F  St.  74 

C.  H.  Burgess  &  Son,  8th  and  O  Sts.,  N.  W.  37 

G.  W.  Merrill  &  Co.,  454  N.  Y.  ave.  45 

E.  J.  BENTI.EY,  141 2  V  St.,  N.  W.  170 
Clothier. — Saks  &  Co.,  7th  and  Market  Space.  3 
Confectioner  and  Ice  Cream. — T.  Jarvis,  426  9th  St.  N.  W.        17 

F.  T.  Budd,  510  9th  St.  N.  W.  12 
W.  W.  Wonn,  721  6th  St.  169 
F.  Freund,  813  Tenth  St.  79 

Cottolene.— N.  K.  Fairbank  Co.  ry 

Cooking  School.— 1328  N  St.,  N.  W.  174 

Dairy.— Eckington,  101  B  St.  S.  E.  37 

Brightwood,  10th  and  Mass.  Ave.  7 

Sampson's,  1003  N.  Y.  Ave.  12 

Belmont,  1804  14th  St.  70 

Hartung's,  Prospect  St.  N.  E-  90 

Dry  Goods.— W.  D.  Clark  &  Co.,  811  Market  Space.  3-86 


178  THE  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK. 

Dry  Goods.— Carhart  &  Leidy,  928  7th  St.  41 

Druggists. — McComas,  180 iVt.  ave.  152 

C.  Y.  Dorman,  1007  H  St.,  N.  W.  7 

Furniture.—  H.  Burkhart  &  Sons,  1017  7th  St.  37 

W.  H.  Hoeke,  801  Market  Space.  90 

Feed.— J.  P.  Y.  Ritter,  1321,  7th  St.,  N.  W.  25 

Flour.— CERES,  W.  M.  Gait  &  Co.  iv 

Gas  Stoves.— C.  A.  Mudiman,  6i4,  12th  St.,  N.  W.  152 
Grocers.     Provisions.     Meats.— 

Hart  &  Higgins,  nth  and  I  Sts.,  N.  W.  128 

C.  W.  Barker,  1210,  F  St.  136 

KEEch  &  Strong,  13th  and  W  Sts.,  N.  W.  112 

C.  S.  Montague,  2204,  14th  St.  118 

H.  S.  Haight,  nth  and  S  Sts.,  N.  W.  94 

J.  H.  Hungerford,  9th  and  O  Sts.,  N.  W.  45 

C.  M.  Smoot,  3d  and  E  Sts.,  N.  E.  7 
B.  T.  True  worthy,  Jr.,  K  St.  Market.  7 
Bransom  &  Tarbell,  9th  and  H  Sts.,  N.  W.  12 
Dorsey's  Market,  10th  and  I  Sts.,  N.  W.  21 
Lavender  &  Rott,  Center  Market.  25 
L.  A.  Delwig,  2d  and  Mass.  Av.  25-118 
G.  S.  Perrie,  N.  Liberty  Market.  33 
Denham  &  White,  8th  and  S  Sts.,  N.  W.  54 
F)mrich  BEEE  Co.,  Telephone  347.  28 
Sam'l  Fenton,  N.  Liberty  Market.  21 
J.  F.  Weyrick,  O  St.  Market.  58 
Y.  Ostmann,  Center  Market.  54 
W.  L  Matthews,  10th  &  S  Sts.  152 

D,  E.  Kelps,  Corner  N.  J.  Ave.  and  R  St.  N.  W.  166 
Hatters  and  Furriers. — Stinemetz  &  Son,  1237  Pa.  Ave.  118 
Jeweler.— Chas.  F.  Plett,  1308  7th  St.  N.  W.  33 

.  Ice.— National  Capital  Ice  Co.  108 

Laundry. — YAi,E  STEAm,  Telephone  1092.  vii 

Millinery.— Mrs.  A.  T.  Whiting,  518  10th  St.  N.  W.  62 

Monumental,  939  F  St.  N.  W.  62 


THE:  UNIVERSAL  COOK-BOOK.  179 

Opticians. — Buchanan  Bros.  11 15  F  St.  N.  W.  41 

Oysters.— R.  M.  Frost,  1500  8th  St.  N.  W.  58 
Paints  and  Glass.— J.  R.  Riggles  and  Bro.,  712  K  St.,  N.  W.         3 

Chas.  B.  Hodgkin,  913  7th  St.  N.  W.  54 

R.  M.  Brown,  7th  and  N  Sts.  N.  W.  41 

Paper  Hanger. — Geo.  S.  Donn,  1240  7th  St.,  N.  W.  45 

G.  Y.  Hansell,  601  H  St.  N.  E.  86 

Patents.— W.  W.  Curry,  Washington,  D.  C.  70 

Printing. — Age  Printing  Co.,  8th  and  H  Sts.  94 

Periodicals. — Microscopical  Pub.  Co.,  Washington,  D.  C.  41 

Our  Church  Magazine.  Ill 

Photographs.— J.  D.  Boyce,  1113  F  St.,  N.  W.  ii 

Real  Estate  and  Fire  Ins. — G.  A.  Jorden,  r4i7  F  St.  58 

WescotT  &  Wilcox,  1907  Pa.  ave.  100 

Sewing  Machines. — S.  Oppenheimer,  514  9th  St.,  N.  W.  62 

Standard  Sewing  Machine.  146 

Shoes. — Warren  Shoe  House,  919  F  St.  74 

StoWs  Shoe  Palace,  810  F  St.  N.  W.  iii 

Summer  Resort— A  Fisher,  138  E  St.,  N.  E.  17 

Tailors. — Snyder  &  Wood,  iiii  Pa.  ave.  104 

J.  J.  Costinett,  624  14th  St.  90 

Typewriter.— J.  C.  Parker  (Hammond),  619  7th  St.  94 

Undertaker. — J.  Wm.  Lee,  332  Pa  ave.  78 

J.  R.  Wright,  1337  10th  St.,  N.  W.  68 


Our  Church 


M 


AGAZINE. 


It  keeps  abreast  of  the  best  religious 
thought  of  the  day .  It  is  broad  and 
liberal  in  tone  and  sympathy.  Its 
aim  is  to  teach  a  nobler  thought  of 
God  and  the  divine  lesson  of  Brother- 
hood. Do  not  say  you  can  not  afford 
to  subscribe.  It  is  the  cheapest  re- 
ligious journal  published  in  this  coun- 
try. You  should  subscribe  and  ask 
your  friends  to  do  likewise. 
Sample  copies  sent  to  any  address. 
Apply  to 

CHAS.  W.  FITTS, 

Publisher. 

Washington,  D.  C. 
55  McGill  Building. 


rrrrr  ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttp 

III 


COTTOLENE 

For  shortening  your 
bread,  biscuit,  rolls,  cake 
and  pastry  and  for  frying 
doughnuts,  croquettes,  fish, 
oysters,  vegetables,  etc. 

Cottolene  is  used  and 
recommended  by  all  the 
best  cooks  in  the  land. 

See  that  you  get  the  gen- 
uine, there  is  but  one  Cot- 
tolene. 

Manufactured  only  by 

THE  I.  K.  FAIRBAHK  COMPANY. 


rv 

X     8  3* 


^ 


%£ 


1       *+ 


A 


<P 


,v  ^ 


:  ^ 


.r 


»       A 


