This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


ft 

< 


Ct 


If* 


.      -  *  !> 


r  c 


V 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook-Book 


SECOND  EDITION 


REVISED 

•ttb« 

CommUtary  School  |U^  S.  Naral  Training 
Station,  Nowport*  Rko4o  Island 


JANUARY,  1920 


PUBLISHED  BY 

THE  U.  S.  NAVAL  INSTITUTE 

ANNAPOLIS.  MD, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


\  ■ 


Copyright,  1920 

BY 

J.  W.  CONROY 

Trustee  for  U.  S.  Naval  Institute 

Annapolis,  Mo. 


•  •  «       a 

•  ft  •      * 

•  «    • 


•         •  *    *      • 


<.    ♦  •     •  •      •  « 

•      •      ••    •  •     • 

••         ••         »•••( 


BALTIMOBS,  MS.,  0.  S.  A. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  iC 


fi^ 


PREFACE 

The  Commissary  School  established  at  the  Naval  Train- 
ing Station,  Newport,  Khode  Island,  is  for  the  purpose  of 
qualifying  men  for  the  various  ratings  of  the  commissary 
branch. 

The  present  capacity  of  the  school  is  as  follows:  Com- 
missary stewards  class,  30;  ship's  class,  130;  and  bakers 
class,  80.  The  length  of  the  course  of  instruction  in  each 
class  is  four  months. 

Candidates  for  the  rate  of  commissary  steward  must  be 
ship's  cooks,  first  class,  or  bakers,  first  class,  and  recom- 
mended by  their  commanding  officer  to  the  Bureau  of 
Navigation  for  a  course  of  instruction  in  the  Commissary 
School.  On  arrival  at  the  school  they  are  given  an  oral 
examination  to  determine  their  qualifications.  They  are 
then  given  lectures  and  practical  work  in  the  general  duties 
of  a  commissary  steward,  the  navy  rations,  the  organization 
of  the  general  mess,  the  routine  of  the  commissary  depart- 
ment, placing  the  commissary  department  in  and  out  of 
commission,  accounting,  dietary  principles,  provisions,  the 
menu  and  the  efficiency  in  the  commissary  department. 
The  course  of  instruction  is  divided  into  four  grades  or 
classes;  the  time  required  to  complete  each  grade  is  about 
four  weeks.  A  new  class  is  started  on  the  first  of  each 
month  and  men  who  are  in  the  waiting  class  are  admitted 
to  the  first  grade.  Students  received  during  the  month  are 
placed  in  the  waiting  class.  Before  advancing  from  one 
grade  to  another,  students  are  required  to  pass  a  satis- 
factory examination.  Monthly  reports  of  fitness  are  made 
of  each  student  and  after  completing  the  course  he  is  given 

ivilG044:3 


4  Peefaob 

a  written  examination  and,  if  found  qualified,  is  recom- 
mended for  the  rating  of  conmiissary  steward  and  sent  to 
general  service. 

Candidates  for  the  rate  of  ship^s  cook  are  enlisted  in 
the  rating  of  ship's  cook,  third  or  fourth  class,  or  landsman. 
On  arrival  at  the  Training  Station  they  are  given  one 
month  of  military  training  before  being  transferred  to  the 
Commissary  School.  On  entering  they  are  given  an  oral 
examination  to  determine  their  knowledge  of  cooking  and 
butchering.  They  are  then  given  lectures  and  practical 
work  in  the  experimental  galley.  The  practical  work  con- 
sists of  butchering  and  the  preparation  and  cooking  of  the 
different  foodstuffs.  Lectures  cover  the  personnel  of  the 
commissary  department,  the  general  duties  of  a  ship's  cook, 
cooking,  preparation  of  dishes,  beverages,  carving,  the 
daily  bill  of  fare,  dietary  principles  and  efl&ciency  in  the 
galley.  After  satisfactorily  completing  the  course,  they 
are  rated  according  to  their  ability  as  ship's  cooks,  third 
or  fourth  class,  and  sent  to  general  service. 

Candidates  for  the  rate  of  baker  are  enlisted  as  baker, 
second  class,  or  landsman,  and  receive  the  same  military 
training  as  ship's  cooks.  On  entering  the  school  they  are 
given  an  oral  examination  and  lectures  and  practical  work. 
The  practical  work  consists  of  making  bread  and  pastry. 
The  lectures  cover  the  personnel  of  the  commissary  depart- 
ment, general  duties  of  a  baker  in  the  navy,  dietary  prin- 
ciples, materiais,  baking  wheat  bread  and  other  breads, 
cakes,  past/y,  aesserts,  efficiency  in  the  bake  shop  and 
adverse  conditions.  After  satisfactorily  completing  the 
course  they  are  rated  baker,  second  class,  and  sent  to  gen- 

,  .  Digitizedby  VjOUy  It: 

era!  service.  *^ 


METHODS  OF  COOKING 

The  cooking  of  foodstuffs  for  the  proper  nutrition  of  the 
human  body  while  necessary  to  some  articles  of  food  is 
riot  necessary  to  all  articles.  Foods  are  cooked  for  various 
reasons ;  for  instance,  to  render  mastication  easy  by  soften- 
ing the  tissues  and  fibers  of  meats  and  vegetables,  to  facili- 
tate and  aid  digestion,  to  eliminate  certain  foreign  para- 
sites, such  as  tinea  of  tapeworm  in  beef  and  mutton, 
trichina  in  pork  and  the  ptomain  poisons  of  decayed  tis- 
sues, especially  in  fish. 

The  actual  cooking  of  food  should  not  be  confounded 
with  the  preparation  of  dishes  of  food;  as  there  are  only 
about  eight  methods  of  cooking,  while  in  the  preparation 
of  dishes  the  methods  are  almost  countless. 

Whatever  method  is  used  in  the  cooking  of  food  the 
results  are  the  same,  the  only  difference  obtained  being  the 
flavors  produced  by  the  method  employed.  For  example: 
It  would  be  impossible  to  obtain  the  flavor  of  roast  beef  by 
boiling  it,  yet  as  far  as  the  eupeptic  properties  of  the  meat 
go  they  would  be  the  same  cooked  by  either  method,  as 
both  methods  soften  the  tissues  and  fibers,  and  aside  from 
the  individual  flavors  obtained  by  the  manner  of  cooking 
there  would  be  but  little  difference. 

Whether  meats  are  roasted,  boiled  or  fried  it  is  our  ob- 
ject to  retain  as  much  as  possible  of  the  nutritive  and 
flavoring  extracts  in  the  meats,  and  this  result  can  be 
obtained  only  by  using  the  proper  tempefatlft€s.     The 


6'':  .••     •.   ;:  :tf.:S:  Navy  Cook  Book 

•  \  .'      :  •   ^ 

meats  should,  first  be  ^subjected  to  a  high  temperature,  as 
'.  tQT'ffiiS/Kieitis 'tlie  pores  of  the  meat  are  quickly  closed  and 
'the  alUuinih  nearest  to  the  surface  of  the  meat  is  coagulated ; 
then  the  temperature  is  reduced  to  enable  the  heat  to 
slowly  penetrate  to  the  center  of  the  meat,  thus  cooking  it 
through;  then  the  temperature  again  reduced  and  con- 
tinued until  the  cooking  has  become  complete. 

ROASTING  AND  BROILING 

Both  these  forms  of  cooking  are  practically  the  same 
and  consist  of  exposing  the  meats  to  the  action  of  the  heat 
from  an  open  fire.  In  roasting,  the  meats  are  continually 
turned  while  in  the  process  of  cooking,  this  turning  being 
accomplished  by  means  of  a  mechanical  device  known  as  a 
roasting  jack;  but  this  form  of  cooking  meats  is  practiced 
very  little  outside  of  the  larger  hotels.  However,  a  similar 
result  may  be  obtained  if  the  meat  is  broiled,  whereby  it  is 
placed  in  a  broiler  and  held  over  a  very  hot,  clear  fire  and 
allowed  to  remain  until  the  Surface  has  become  seared 
and  the  pores  of  the  meat  have  become  closed;  the  meat 
should  then  be  turned  and  the  other  side  treated  in  the  same 
manner.  The  meat  is  then  moved  further  from  the  heat 
when  the  cooking  is  continued  until  done. 

The  broiler  should  be  clean,  well  heated,  and  greased 
before  using.  As  salt  applied  to  raw  meat  tends  to  toughen 
the  fibers,  it  should  not  be  applied  to  the  meat  until  it  is 
very  nearly  cooked. 

BAKING 

The  practice  of  baking  meats  is  much  more  general  than 
roasting  or  broiling,  and  when  meats  ga^eby^operly  baked 


TJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  7 

they  have  a  flavor  ahnost  as  good  as  that  produced  before 
the  open  fire.  The  meat  should  first  be  cut  into  pieces  of 
desired  size,  then  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth  and  placed  in 
a  baking  pan,  into  which  small  pieces  of  fat,  or  some  drip- 
pings, have  previously  been  placed.  The  oven  should  have 
a  temperature  of  at  least  450°  F.,  then  the  meat  placed 
within  and  allowed  to  remain  for  at  least  30  minutes.  At 
the  end  of  this  time  the  meat  has  become  well  seared  (or 
browned),  and  in  the  meanwhile  should  have  been  turned 
and  basted  with  the  fats  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  The 
temperature  of  the  oven  should  then  be  reduced  to  about 
350°  F.,  the  meat  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  stock  or  water  poured  over  it.  The  meat  . 
should  then  be  turned  and  baited  frequently  until  it  has 
finished  cooking.  Whether  the  meat  has  been  thoroughly 
cooked  or  not,  may  be  determined  by  the  color  of  the  juices 
that  flow  from  it  when  it  is  cut;  this  juice  should  be  of  a 
dark  wine  color. 

BOILING  AND  SIMMERING 

These  are  two  methods  of  cooking  that  are  simply  the 
result  of  the  temperature  used,  and  the  principle  is  identi- 
cal with  that  of  roasting  with  the  exception  that  the 
flavor  of  roasted  meat  is  lacking;  however,  meats  may  be 
boiled  and  be  just  as  juicy  and  tender  as  meats  that  have 
been  roasted,  if  proper  attention  is  given  to  the  process. 
In  the  first  place,  we  must  obtain  the  maximum  tem- 
perature of  212°  F.  (or  boiling),  the  meats  should  be  as 
near  as  possible  all  of  one  size,  placed  in  the  boiling  water, 
and  allowed  to  remain  for  at  least  30  minutes;  then  the 
heat  should  be  reduced  until  the  water  but  simmers.    This 

Digitized  by  Vj U<jy  I tT 


8  TJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

simmering  should  be  continued  until  the  toeats  have  be- 
come tender.  Boiling  should  never  be  allowed  to  take  place 
after  the  meat  has  been  in  the  water  for  the  first  30  minutes, 
as  the  continued  boiling  would  serve  to  toughen  the  fibers 
of  the  meat  and  spoil  the  flavor  near  its  surface.  Season 
at  the  end  of  the  first  30-minute  period.  The  process  of 
simmering  should  be  strictly  adhered  to  in  order  that 
proper  results  may  be  obtained  when  meats  are  cooked  by 
boiling.  The  proper  temperature  for  simmering  is  about 
180°  F.    Serve  the  meat  with  a  good  sauce. 

FRYING  AND  SAUT^INQ 

Prying  consists  of  completely  submerging  the  article  to 
be  cooked  in  deep  fat  or  oil.  The  fat  should  always  be  at 
the  boiling  point,  otherwise  the  food  would  absorb  the  fat 
and  produce  a  very  indigestible  article.  It  must  be  kept 
in  mind  that  fat  at  a  boiling  heat  does  not  bubble,  but  re- 
mains perfectly  still  with  a  thin,  blue  vapor  rising  from  its 
surface,  and  this  thin,  blue  vapor  must  not  be  confounded 
with  the  thick,  dark-colored  smoke  that  arises  from  burn- 
ing fats.  Poods  cooked  by  frying  are  usually  first  coated 
with  beaten  egg  and  then  covered  with  bread-  or  cracker- 
crumbs,  which  is,  indeed,  a  very  good  method,  serving  as 
it  does  to  retain  the  juices  of  the  meats.  The  articles  to 
be  fried  should  be  placed  within  the  hot  fat  in  very  small 
quantities  or  their  entrance  would  serve  to  cool  the  fat 
below  the  desirable  temperature  and  thus  cause  the  food 
to  absorb  the  fat. 

Care  should  be  taken  that  the  fat  does  not  burn,  as  fat 
that  reaches  this  temperature  imdergoes  a  chemical  change 
and  is  split  up  into  fatty  acids  and  glycerine;  and  from 

Digitized  by  Vj U<jy  I tT 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Boor  9 

glycerine  is  produced  a  substance  called  acrolein  which  has 
a  very  irritating  effect  upon  the  mucous  membrane ;  hence, 
the  disfavor  in  which  fried  food  is  held. 

Unlike  frying,  sauteing  is  a  method  of  cooking  food  in 
only  enough  fat  to  keep  the  article  from  sticking  to  the  pan 
in  which  it  is  being  cooked.  The  pan  should  be  well  heated 
and  then  a  small  quantity  of  fat  or  oil  put  in  it,  then  the 
article  should  be  placed  in  it  and  quickly  seared  on  both 
sides,  the  temperature  then  reduced  and  the  article  allowed 
to  finish  cooking.  The  article  should  never  be  completely 
cooked  on  one  side  as  this  method  would  serve  to  drive  out 
all  the  juices  of  the  meat,  making  it  tough  and  tasteless. 

BRAISING 

This  manner  of  cooking  comprises,  three  distinct 
methods:  First,  the  meats,  with  a  small  quantity  of  fats, 
are  placed  within  a  closed  vessel  or  braising  pan  and  al- 
lowed to  remain  there  imtil  the  meats  have  become  thor- 
oughly brown;  then  flavoring  herbs  and  vegetables  are 
added.  The  whole  is  then  cooled  for  about  15  minutes, 
after  being  well  dredged  with  flour;  then  sufficient  water 
or  stock  to  half  cover  the  meat  is  added.  The  temperature 
is  then  sufficiently  reduced  to  allow  the  article  to  simmer 
for  about  3  or  four  hours,  or  until  tender.  Thus  we  have 
the  three  distinct  methods  which  comprise  sauteing,  steam- 
ing and  simmering,  obtaining  the  flavor  of  roast  meat  with 
the  tenderness  produced  by  the  prolonged  steaming  and 
simmering.  Tough  meats  may  be  treated  in  this  way  with 
a  marked  tenderness  resulting.  In  braising  meats  they 
should  at  all  times  be  kept  tightly  covered  in  order  that  the 
steam  may  be  retained  in  the  vessel.  r^^^^i 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  l€ 


10  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

STEAMING 

This  is  a  process  useful  in  cooking  puddings,  etc.  It 
has  no  advantages  over  boiling  such  articles  of  food.  The 
steam  merely  tends  to  keep  the  article  dry  while  cooking. 
Such  articles  may  be  steamed  in  an  ordinary  pot  or  copper 
by  placing  a  small  quantity  of  water  in  the  bottom  of  such 
receptacles  and  inverting  a  pan  over  the  water,  then  placing 
the  article  to  be  cooked  upon  the  inverted  pan.  The  water 
should  be  replaced  as  it  boils  away  until  the  article  is 
cooked. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  11 


THE  PREPARATION  OF  SOUP  STOCK 

Strictly  speaking,  soups  should  be  regarded  more  as  a 
stimulant  than  as  a  food,  composed,  as  they  are,  chiefly  of 
water  combined  with  flavoring  juices  of  meats,  herbs  and 
vegetables.  Soups  are  divided  into  two  classes:  clear  and 
thick.  In  the  latter,  such  materials  as  are  rich  in  carbo- 
hydrates are  used,  as  beans,  peas,  rice,  lentils  and  starch, 
and  in  this  class  of  soups  the  caloric  value  is  greatly  in- 
creased, so  that  practically  the  main  function  of  soups  is 
that  of  a  stimulant.  They  excite  the  salivary  glands,  caus- 
ing a  copious  flow  of  saliva  and  gastric  juices,  which  mate- 
rial is  very  necessary  to  the  proper  digestion  of  the  more 
solid  foods. 

The  basis  of  all  soups  is  commonly  known  as  stock,  which 
is  simply  a  combination  of  water,  the  flavoring  juices  of 
meats,  vegetables  and  spices,  together  with  a  small  per- 
centage of  the  nutritive  principles  contained  in  meats. 
When  meats  that  are  used  in  the  preparation  of  stock  are 
white  (such  as  chicken  and  veal)  the  stock  is  known  as 
white  stock  and  is  used  in  the  preparation  of  soup  that  is 
required  to  be  of  a  light  color.  Stocks  required  for  light  or 
brown  soup  may  be  prepared  from  any  kind  of  meats, 
cooked  or  raw.  All  stocks  are  prepared  in  the  same  man- 
ner, with  one  object  in  view,  namely:  to  extract  as  much 
as  is  possible  of  the  flavoring  and  nutritive  juices  of  the 
materials  used.  The  flavoring  juices  are  readily  extracted 
by  the  process  of  long  and  slow  cookiif^.'^'^^yTfri^^yjooking 


12  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

should  take  place  at  a  temperature  of  less  than  160®  F., 
as  the  nutritive  juices  are  of  an  albuminous  nature  and  wil] 
coagulate  at  a  temperature  above  160°  F.,  after  which  il 
becomes  insoluble  in  water.  To  illustrate  the  meaning 
more  fully,  we  may  take  a  bowl  of  cold  water  and  mix  the 
water  with  the  white  of  an  egg ;  it  will  be  noticed  that  noj 
change  takes  place  with  the  exception  that  the  liquid  turns 
a  little  opaque.  But  if  the  water  should  be  boiling  and  then 
the  egg  mixed  with  it,  we  see  a  decided  change.  ThQ 
albumin  immediately  becomes  coagulated  and  it  is  thei^ 
impossible  to  bring  it  back  to  a  liquid  state.  That  should 
teach  us  that  in  order  to  extract  the  greater  amount  of  the 
nutritive  principles,  it  is  necessary  to  keep  the  temperature 
of  the  water  in  which  the  meats  are  cooking  as  low  as  pos- 
sible for  some  considerable  time  to  facilitate  the  dissiolving 
of  the  albumen. 

Aside  from  the  flavoring  and  nutritive  extracts  from  the 
meats,  we  have  the  flavors  of  herbs,  vegetables  and  spices, 
These,  combined  with  various  minerals  and  salts,  tend  to 
produce  palatable  stock.  Great  care  should  be  exercised  in 
the  use  of  these  vegetables  and  herbs,  as  each  has  a  dis- 
tinctive flavor  and  no  one  flavor  should  be  allowed  to  pre- 
dominate over  the  others,  but  all  should  blend  to  produce 
a  palatable  flavor. 

Nothing  is  more  nauseating  than  the  excessive  use  ol 
bay-leaves  or  strong  turnips  in  a  soup,  as  they  will  pre- 
dominate over  the  natural  flavor  of  the  meats;  the  lattei 
flavor  being  much  desired  in  a  properly  prepared  soup 
stock. 

The  following  rules  may  be  found  useful  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  soup  stocks : 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  13 

2.  Bones  should  be  broken  and  the  large  joints  cut  with 
cleaver. 

3.  Vegetables  should  be  cleaned,  washed  and  cut  into 
halves. 

4.  Spices  should  be  placed  in  a  muslin  bag. 

Meats,  bones  and  vegetables  should  be  placed  in  cold 
water  and  allowed  to  remain  so  for  30  minutes,  then  the  heat 
applied  slowly  and  kept  near,  but  below,  160°  F.  for  some 
time,  then  more  heat  applied  until  the  simmering  point  is 
reached.  The  simmering  should  be  allowed  to  continue 
without  ceasing  for  at  least  5  hours.  The  spices  should  be 
cooked  for  1  hour  and  then  removed.  The  fats  should  be 
removed  and  the  stock  strained,  and  then  it  is  ready  for 
use  in  the  preparation  of  soups.  The  stock  should  never 
be  allowed  to  boil. 

The  following  is  a  summary  of  ingredients  needed  for 
the  preparation  of  soup  stock  for  100  men : 

Bones  and  soup  meats 25     lbs. 

Carrots   2 

Onions    4 

Parsley   i 

Celery ^ 

Leeks    ^ 

Cloves   12     No. 

Whole  peppers i  oz. 

Mace  i   " 

SuflBcient  water  to  make  12  gals,  of  stock. 

In  consideration  of  the  fact  that  the  amount  of  soup  pre- 
pared for  a  number  of  men  depends  somewhat  on  the 
amount  of  other  dishes  that  will  be  served  in  the  dinner, 
the  quantity  of  soup  must,  of  course,  be  lowered  where  the 


14  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

quantity  of  the  other  part  of  the  meal  is  raised;  however, 
the  following  recipes  are  given : 

MACARONI   SOUP 

12  gals,  stock  12  egg  yolks 

4  lbs.  macaroni  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Break  the  macaroni  into  2-inch  lengths.  Place  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  and  cook  for  20  minutes,  then  remove  and 
add  it  to  the  stock  and  cook  it  for  15  minutes.  Beat  the 
egg  yolks  and  add  them  gradually  to  some  of  the  soup,  then 
mix  the  whole  amount  together  5  minutes  before  serving. 

NOODLE  SOUP 

12  gals,  stock  12  egg  yolks 

4  lbs.  noodles  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  the  previous  recipe. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP 

12  gals,  stock  12  egg  yolks 

5  lbs.  vermicelli  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  the  previous  recipe,  but 
the  vermicelli  should  be  cooked  in  the  stock  for  20  minutes. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

12  gals,  stock  r  lbs.  tomatoes 

2  lbs.  carrots  3  lbs.  flour 

1  lb.  turnips  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  lbs.  onions 

Vegetables  should  all  be  cut  into  small  dice  shape.  In 
preparing  vegetable  soup  the  flavor  of  the  vegetables  is 

Digitized  by  VjU<J*?lt: 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  15 

gieatly  improved  if  the  vegetables  are  slightly  saut6d  in 
hot  butter  or  fat.  Prepare  as  for  soup  stock.  After  remov- 
ing the  bones  from  the  stock,  the  tomatoes  are  added  and 
cooked  for  1  hour  longer.    Thicken  with  the  flour  and  serve. 

ENGLISH   BEEF  SOUP 

Use  the  same  ingredients  as  for  vegetable  soup,  except 
that  4  pounds  of  pearl  barley  are  substituted  for  the  flour, 
also  that  small  pieces  of  the  soup  meat  may  be  served  in  the 
soup.  The  barley  should  first  be  soaked  in  cold  water  for 
30  minutes  and  then  either  boiled  separately  or  in  the  soup. 
If  boiled  separately,  the  liquid  should  be  added  to  the  soup. 

SCOTCH   BROTH 

12  gals,  stock  2  lbs.  carrots 

•J  oz.  thyme  2  lbs.  turnips 

5  lbs.  pearl  barley  1  lb.  leeks  or  onions 

This  soup  is  best  prepared  from  the  stock  of  boiled 
mutton.  Strain  the  stock  and  add  the  barley  and  vegeta- 
bles, and  then  simmer  until  the  barley  is  soft.  Season  with 
the  thyme,  and  salt  and  pepper  as  required.  (This  soup 
may  be  slightly  thickened  with  flour.) 

ONION  SOUP 

12  gals,  stock  3  lbs.  milk 

10  lbs.  onions     .  5  lbs.  bread  for 

4  lbs.  flour  croutons 

Boil  the  onions  in  the  stock  until  tender ;  then  thicken 
with  a  good  white  roux;  then  add  the  milk,  and  season. 

Digitized  by  VjOU^  ItT 


16  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

Just  before  serving,  the  croutons  are  added.  A  little 
chopped  parsley  greatly  improves  the  appearance  and  flavor 
of  this  soup. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP 

12  gals,  stock  3  lbs.  milk 

5  lbs.  celery  5  lbs.  bread  for 

5  lbs.  flour  croutons 

Wash  the  celery  well  and  separate  the  whitest  parts. 
Cook  the  remainder  in  the  stock  until  tender.  Eeraove  the 
celery  and  strain  the  stock.  Dice  the  white  parts  of  the 
celery  and  boil  them  in  salted  water  until  they  are  tender ; 
then  prepare  a  white  roux,  with  which  thicken  the  soup ; 
add  the  diced  celery,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  the  milk, 
season,  and  just  before  serving  add  the  croutons. 

RICE  AND  TOMATO  SOUP 

10  gals,  stock  4  lbs.  rice 

10  lbs.  tomatoes  5  lbs.  onions 

Add  the  tomatoes  and  the  flnely  chopped  onions  to  the 
stock  and  cook  until  tender;  then  add  the  rice  and  cook 
until  it  is  well  starred.    Season  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 

10  gals,  stock  3  lbs.  milk 

20  lbs.  tomatoes  J  oz.  baking  soda 

3  lbs.  onions  5  lbs.  bread  for 
5  lbs.  flour  croutons 

Boil  together  the  tomatoes  and  onions  until  they  become 
a  pulp,  then  mash  and  strain  through  a  flne  colander ;  add 

Digitized  by  VjOU^  ItT 


to  the  stock  and  thicken  well  with  a  white  roux.  Simmer 
for  30  minutes;  then  add  the  soda  and  then  the  milk. 
Season  and  serve  with  the  croutons.  The  consistency  of 
this  soup  should  be  that  of  a  good  thick  cream. 

POTATO  SOUP 

12  gals,  stock  or  water  ^  lb.  butter 

40  lbs.  potatoes  4  ^z.  mace 

10  lbs.  onions  5  lbs.  bread  for  croutons 

If  water  is  used  instead  of  the  stock,  3  pounds  of  milk 
should  be  added.  Peal  and  boil  the  potatoes  until  they  are 
fit  to  mash ;  then  add  the  stock  or  boiling  water.  Chop  the 
onions  very  fine  and  add  them  to  the  stock  and  boil  until 
they  are  tender ;  add  milk  (if  used) .  Season  with  the  mace, 
»alt  and  pepper,  also  a  handful  of  chopped  parsley.  Add 
the  croutons  just  before  serving. 

PRINTANIER  SOUP 


2  gals,  stock 

3  lbs.  peas 

4  lbs.  carrots 

3  lbs.  strmg  beans 

4  lbs.  turnips 

2  lbs.  celery 

3  lbs.  leeks 

Cut  the  celery  into  small  squares  and  saute  for  a  few 
minutes,  add  it  to  the  stock  and  cook  until  tender;  then 
add  the  peas  and  the  string  beans,  the  latter  cut  into  small 
pieces.    Season  and  serve. 

JULIENNE  SOUP 
12  gals,  stock  3  lbs.  cabbage 

4  lbs.  carrots  3  lbs.  string  beans 

4  lbs.  turnips  ?  lbs.  celery 

3  lbs.  leeks 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


18  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

This  Boup  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  printanier 
soup,  with  the  exception  that  any  vegetables  capable  of 
being  cut  into  long,  thin  strings  may  be  used,  such  as 
carrots,  cabbage,  turnips,  onions,  etc. 

BEAN  SOUP 

12  gals,  ham  stock  or  water  5  lbs.  onions 

3  gals,  beans  12  lbs.  tomatoes 

In  preparing  this  soup  the  beans  should  first  be  soaked 
in  cold  water  for  about  two  hours,  then  the  water  removed 
and  replaced  with  fresh  water,  and  the  beans  allowed  to  boil 
slowly.  In  ihe  meantime,  cut  the  onions  into  small  slices 
and  add  them  to  the  soup  with  some  ham  stock  or  ham 
bones.  Cook  all  together  until  the  beans  are  well  broken. 
One  hour  before  serving,  the  tomatoes  should  be  added; 
the  ham  bones  should  be  removed  after  a  slight  boiling. 

DRIED  PEA  SOUP 

12  gals,  ham  stock  or  water         5  lbs.  carrots 
15  lbs.  peas  5  lbs.  bread  or 

5  lbs.  onions  croutons 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  for  bean  soup,  estimating 
the  quantity  of  tomatoes  needed.  A  few  carrots  improve 
the  flavor  of  this  soup. 

OYSTER  SOUP 

5  gals,  milk  2  lbs.  butter 

3  gals,  oysters 

Blanch  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquid  until  they  are  half 
cooked,  then  skim  them  out  and  set  aside.     Strain  the 

Digitized  by  VjLXjy  It: 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  19 

liquid  and  add  the  milk;  when  this  boils^  thicken  slightly 
with  roux,  boil  for  three  minutes,  then  add  the  oysters  and 
cook  them  until  they  are  firm.  Season  and  serye.  Do  not 
let  the  milk  boil  too  long  or  it  will  curdle. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


20  '        tJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 


HOW  TO  CLEAR  STOCK 

The  clearing  of  soup  stock  for  consomme  may  be  accom- 
plished by  careful  preparation.  Stock  may  be  cleared 
without  trouble  if  the  following  directions  are  adhered  to : 
Keep  the  stock  continually  simmering,  but  do  not  allow  to 
boil.  Use  a  stock  pot  if  available,  whereby  the  stock  may 
be  drawn  off  through  a  spigot  and  strained  through  a 
flannel  cloth;  but  as  this  method  cannot  be  used  where  a 
ship  is  in  motion,  the  following  directions  are  given: 

Chop  fine,  some  lean  beef,  add  2  egg  whites  together  with 
the  shells  of  same  to  every  pound  of  meat;  and  after  the 
stock  has  cooled,  add  this  to  it,  mix  well  and  gradually  bring 
to  a  boil ;  then  reduce  the  temperature  and  allow  to  simmer 
slowly  for  about  30  minutes;  strain  through  a  fine  cloth. 
The  liquid  thus  produced  is  called  consomme,  and  may  be 
drunk  either  hot  or  cold,  and  is  used  in  the  preparation  of 
the  following  soups : 

CONSOMME  ROYAL 

12  gals,  cleared  stock  (consomme^  24  egg  yolks 

Mix  the  well-beaten  yolks  with  a  little  more  than  their 
bulk  of  milk,  season,  and  pour  into  a  pan  1  or  2  inches  deep ; 
then  place  in  a  second  pan  containing  boiling  water  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm ;  cut  into  half -inch  dice, 
add  to  the  consomm6  and  then  serve.     ^        i 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


IT.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  21 

CONSOMME    WITH    MACARONI,    NOODLES    OR 
VERMICELLI 

12  gals,  cleared  stock  (consomme) 
5  lbs.  macaroni,  noodles  or  vermicelli 

All  of  the  above-mentioned  pastes  must  be  boiled  in 
salted  water,  seasoned  and  then  added  to  the  consomme. 

CONSOMME  WITH  TAPIOCA 

12  gals  cleared  stock  (consomm^)  4  lbs.  tapioca 

Soak  the  tapioca  over  night,  drain  and  add  to  the  con- 
somme ;  boil  for  40  minutes,  season  and  serve. 

CONSOMME  WITH  SAGO 
12  gals,  cleared  stock  (consomme)  4  lbs.  sago 

Prepare  as  for  consomm6  with  tapioca. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


22  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 


CHOWDERS 

CLAM  CHOWDER 

30  lbs.  potatoes  2  lbs.  milk 

3  gals,  clams  i  oz.  thyme 

5  lbs.  salt  pork  or  bacon  5  lbs.  tomatoes 

5  lbs.  onions  Water  sufficient  to 
5  lbs.  flour  make  10  gallons 

Peel  and  dice  the  potatoes  and  then  boil  in  slightly 
salted  water  until  about  three-quarters  cooked,  drain  and 
reserve  the  stock.  Dice  the  salt  pork  or  bacon  and  place 
in  the  pan  with  a  little  water  and  fry  until  the  meat  becomes 
slightly  brown;  then  add  the  onions,  finely  chopped,  and 
cook  for  5  minutes;  add  the  flour  and  stir  well.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  to  the  potato  stock  and  simmer 
slowly.  If  soft-shell  clams  are  used  the  bellies  are  removed 
and  the  tough  parts  are  added  io  the  potato  stock  together 
with  the  liquid,  onions  and  meat,  and  allowed  to  simmer 
for  30  minutes.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving  add  the 
potatoes,  clam  bellies,  seasoning,  and  pepper  and  salt,  and 
a  small  pinch  of  thyme.  If  the  clams  ar  tough  they  should 
be  finely  chopped  and  cooked  for  30  minutes  in  the  stock. 
This  chowder  may  be  greatly  improved  if  the  milk  is  added 
just  before  serving.  Tomatoes  may  or  may  not  be  used 
with  this  chowder. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


^      TJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  23 

FISH  CHOWDER 

to  lbs.  fish  2  lbs.  milk 

30  lbs.  potatoes  ^  oz.  thyme 

5  lbs.  salt  pork  or  bacon  Fish  stock  or  water 

5  lbs.  onions  enough    to    make 

10  lbs.  tomatoes  10  gallons 

Prepare  the  stock  from  the  head  and  tails  of  the  fish. 
Dice  the  salt  pork  or  bacon  and  fry  it  out  on  the  range ;  then 
add  finely  chopped  onions  and  fry  until  brown.  Cut  the 
fish  small  and  boil  with  the  diced  potatoes  until  the  potatoes 
are  well  cooked;  thicken  slightly  with  roux.  Season  with 
thyme^  salt  and  pepper.    Just  before  serving  add  the  milk. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


24  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 


FISH  DISHES 

Great  care  should  be  taken  to  see  that  fish  to  be  used  for 
food  are  fresh.  The  best  way  to  determine  this  is  by  the 
firmness  of  the  flesh,  the  brightness  of  the  eye  and  the 
bright  red  color  of  the  .gills. 

The  most  common  methods  of  cooking  are  boiling,  bak- 
ing and  frying.  Large  fish  are  generally  boiled,  medium- 
sized  are  baked  or  broiled  and  the  smaller  ones  are  fried. 
Extremely  large  ones,  such  as  cod,  haddock  and  halibut,  are 
usually  cut  into  steaks  and  then  fried.  When  boiling  fish 
the  flavor  may  be  greatly  improved  by  adding  vinegar,  salt, 
bay-leaves,  whole  peppers,  parsley,  onions,  or  a  few  slices 
of  lemon  to  the  water. 

Fish  for  baking  should  be  well  cleaned  and  scaled  and 
have  fins  and  tails  removed.  A  prepared  dressing  of  stale 
bread,  well  seasoned  with  butter  and  sage,  onions,  pepper, 
salt  and  any  other  aromatic  herbs  that  may  be  fancied 
should  be  placed  in  the  fish.  The  fish  should  then  be  placed 
in  well-greased  baking  pans  and  have  a  little  melted  butter 
or  fat  poured  over  it,  then  covered  with  bread-crumbs  or 
cracker  dust,  and  a  few  slices  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  laid  on 
the  top  of  it.  The  addition  of  tomatoes  and  a  few  slices  of 
onion  will  improve  the  fish. 

FRIED  FISH 

60  lbs.  fish  4  lbs.  flour 

8  eggs  Bread-crumbs  or  cracker  dust 

Clean  and  scale  the  fish,  wash  well  in  cold  water,  then 
^^ain  and  dip  it  in  dry  flour,  then  in  well-beaten  eggs,  and 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  25 

lastly  in  bread-crumbs.    Allow  it  to  stand  for  10  minutes 
and  then  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

FISH   FRIED  IN   BATTER 

60  lbs.  fish  4  lbs.  flour 

4  eggs  3  oz.  baking  powder 

Clean  as  before,  and  then  prepare  a  frying  batter  from  the 
flour,  eggs  and  baking  powder,  seasoned  with  salt.  Dip  the 
fish  into  the  batter  and  then  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

FISH   FRITTERS 

25  lbs.  fish  8  eggs 

10  lbs.  flour  2  lbs.  milk 

8  oz.  baking  powder 

Cold  boiled  fish  or  salt  cod  may  be  used  for  these  fritters. 
If  using  salt  fish  it  must  first  be  well  freshened  and  then 
picked  apart  and  added  to  a  batter  composed  of  the  follow- 
ing: Flour,  egg,  milk  and  baking  powder.  When  using 
cold  boiled  fish  salt  will  be  necessary.  Mix  well  and  fry  as 
ordinary  fritters  in  hot  fat. 

CANNED  SALMON   FRITTERS 

25  lbs.  salmon  8  oz.  baking  powder 

10  lbs.  flour  2  lbs.  milk 

Prepare  the  batter  as  above  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  drain  off  the  liquor,  break  the  fish  in  small  pieces 
and  add  to  the  batter.    Fry  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


J 


26  TJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

CANNED  CODFISH   FRITTERS 

Use  the  same  quantity  of  ingredients  as  for  the  preyious 
recipe,  prepare  in  the  same  manner,  except  that  canned 
codfish  is  used. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS 

2  gals,  oysters  8  oz.  baking  powder 

10  lbs.  flour  2  lbs.  milk 

First  blanch  the  oysters  slightly  in  their  own  liquid; 
remove  oysters  and  strain  the  liquid.  Prepare  the  fritter 
batter  as  in  the  previous  recipes,  adding  the  oyster  liquid. 
Add  the  oysters  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat.  If  canned  oysters 
are  used  it  is  not  necessary  to  blanch  them. 

CLAM  FRITTERS 

2  gals,  clams  8  eggs 

10  lbs.  flour  2  lbs.  milk 

8  oz.  baking  powder 

Use  soft-shell  clams  for  fritters.  Drain  the  liquid  from 
the  clams,  let  come  to  a  boil,  skiin  and  strain  and  then 
allow  to  get  cold.  Mix  a  fritter  batter  as  above,  making  it 
quite  thick,  add  the  clams  and  fry. 

CANNED  SALMON  CROQUETTES 

30  lbs.  salmon  4  bimches  of  parsley 

5  lbs.  flour  Cracker  dust 

8  eggs 

Bemove  the  salmon  from  the  liquid  and  mince  up  into 
nnall  pieces.  Prepare  a  well-seasoned  heavy  rouz  and  mix 
with  the  salmon,  then  set  aside  to  become  cold.  Chopped 
parsley  may  be  added,  if  desired.    When  cold  mold  into 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  27 

cones  or  cylinders,  roll  first  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  eggs, 
and  lastly  in  the  cracker  dust.  Allow  to  stand  for  10 
minutes  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES 

60  lbs.  lobster,  fresh,  or  35  lbs.  lobster,  canned 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  salmon  croquettes,  sub- 
stituting the  lobster.  If  fresh  lobster  is  used  it  should  be 
chopped  fine. 

CRAB  CROQUETTES 

35  lbs.  crab  meat 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  lobster  croquettes,  sub- 
stituting canned  or  fresh  crab  meat. 

CANNED  SALMON  CAKES 

50  lbs.  peeled  potatoes  8  eggs 

25  lbs.  salmon  3  lbs.  flour 

Boil  the  potatoes,  mash  well  and  let  cool.  Remove 
salmon  from  the  tins,  drain,  chop  very  fine,  add  to  the 
mashed  potatoes  and  season.  Mold  in  round  flat  cakes,  dip 
in  flour  and  fry  in  a  small  quantity  of  hot  fat.  The  addi- 
tion of  eggs  greatly  improves  this  dish. 

CODFISH  CAKES 

60  lbs.  peeled  potatoes  8  eggs 

»6  lbs.  codfish  3  lbs.  flour 

Prepare  the  same  as  salmon  cakes,  using  codfish  instead 
of  salmon.  If  shredded  codfish  is  used  and  is  too  salty, 
freshen  with  cold  water.  Digitized  by  vjuuy  it: 


28  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 


MEATS 

ROAST  BEEF 

Cut  80  pounds  ribs  of  beef  into  6-pound  pieces;  wipe 
dry.  Place  in  roasting  pans  and  rub  in  as  much  flour  all 
over  as  the  meat  will  hold,  letting  a  little  of  the  flour  drop 
over  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Place  dots  of  drippings  over 
the  top  of  the  roast,  using  about  4  tablespoonfuls  in  all. 
Place  pan  in  the  oven  and  let  alone  for  25  minutes  or  until 
browned  nicely.  Then  draw  out  the  pan  and  pour  in  about 
3  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Baste  the  meat  all  over,  place 
back  in  the  oven  and  close  drafts,  reducing  the  temperature 
of  the  oven  to  a  very  moderate  heat.  Baste  every  10  or  15 
minutes.  When  nearly  done  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
baste  again.  You  cannot  baste  the  meat  too  often.  Figure 
about  13  minutes  to  the  pound  to  cook  the  meat.  The  first 
intense  heat  of  the  oven  sears  the  meat,  retaining  the  juices. 
Reducing  the  heat  cooks  th^.  inside  without  further  scorch- 
ing the  surface. 

When  meat  is  done,  remove  from  pan.  Set  pan  on  top  of 
the  range,  add  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  well  to  detach  all 
the  particles  of  flour  that  have  adhered  to  tlie  pan.  Boil 
and  stir  for  4  or  5  minutes,  then  strain  into  a  gravy  dish. 
Skim  off  all  fat  which  you  keep  for  drippings. 

The  practice  of  adding  flour  to  the  roasting  pan,  to  burn 
and  thicken  the  gravy,  and  with  burned,  bitter  tasting 
sugar,  should  be  discouraged.  No  more  thickening  is  really 
required  than  the  stray  particles  of  flour  which  fell  from 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  29 

the  meat  when  first  started  to  roast.     These  have  cooked 
well  and  brow'ned  during  the  time  of  roasting. 

BRAISED  BEEF 

56  lbs.  beef  4  bay-leaves 

2  lbs.  salt  pork  12  cloves 

2  lbs.  carrots  Celery  tops 

2  lbs.  turnips  3  lbs.  onions 

Flour 

The  kind  of  meat  best  for  this  purpose  is  round,  vein 
and  shoulder-clods.  Cut  the  fat  pork  3  inches  long  and 
i  inch  square ;  dice  the  vegetables.  Cut  the  meat  in  about 
8-pound  pieces,  take  a  steel  and  punch  a  hole  parallel  with 
the  grain  of  tlie  meat  and  insert  one  of  the  lardons  of  pork, 
continue  this  until  all  the  pork  is  used.  Place  a  baking 
pan  on  top  of  the  range,  put  remaining  scraps  of  salt  pork 
together  with  some  beef  drippings  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan, 
allow  to  become  hot,  then  add  the  beef  which  has  been  pre- 
viously well  dredged  with  flour,  allow  to  become  well 
browned,  then  add  the  diced  vegetables  and  cook  for  20 
minutes,  then  add  the  stock  or  water  to  fill  the  pan,  invert 
another  pan  to  prevent  escape  of  steam  and  finish  cookinix 
in  the  oven,  turning  the  basting  the  meat  frequently;  this 
process  of  braising  may  be  carried  out  in  the  same  manner 
by  using  the  steam  coppers.  Eemove  the  fat  from  the  liquid, 
strain,  season  and  serve. 

BOILED  BEEF 

70  lbs.  beef  2  lbs.  turnips 

2  lbs.  onions  2  lbs.  carrots 

Cut  the  beef  in  8-pound  pieces,  place  in  boiling  water  and 
allow  it  to  boil  hard  for  15  minutes,  then  reduce  the  tem- 


30  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

perature  to  simmering,  add  the  onions,  carrots  and  turnips 
whole,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  may  be  added;  this  meat 
should  be  served  with  one  of  the  following  sauces :  pickled 
horse  radish  sauce,  onion  sauce  or  tomato  sauce. 

FRIED  BEEFSTEAK 

60  pounds  of  steak  in  ^-pound  pieces,  place  some  drip- 
pings in  pan  and  allow  to  become  very  hot,  then  add  the 
steak,  searing  on  both  sides ;  remove  from  the  pan,  place  in 
another  pan  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
butter.  In  cooking  large  quantities  of  steak  the  first  cooked 
should  be  rather  rare.  Steak  may  be  cooked  on  top  of  the 
range,  first  wiping  oflE  the  plates  and  well  greasing  with 
fat;  in  cooking  steak  in  this  manner  it  may  be  left  in  large 
pieces  and  cut  later. 

BROILED  STEAK 

Cut  60  pounds  of  steak  1  inch  thick,  have  a  good  clear 
fire  and  very  hot,  heat  a  broiler  and  grease  well,  lay  a  steak 
on  the  broiler  and  sear  both  sides  as  quickly  as  possible, 
then  remove  a  little  further  from  the  fire  and  finish  cooking, 
place  in  the  pan  or  dish,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

STEWED  STEAK   (SPANISH) 

60  lbs.  steak  8  lbs.  tomatoes 

5  lbs.  onions  1  lb.  flour 

Cut  the  steak  in  ^-pound  pieces,  sear  quickly  on  top  of 
the  range,  place  in  the  copper,  dredge  with  flour,  cook  5 
minutes ;  slice  the  onions  and  add  them  to  the  steak,  then 
the  tomatoes  and  sufficient  water  or  stock  to  cover,  stew 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  31 

Tery  gently  until  tender,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  or 
green  peppers  may  be  sliced  and  cooked  with  the  steak. 

HAMBURGER  STEAK  NO.  1 

40  lbs.  hamburger  10  lbs.  bread 

5  lbs.  onions 

Chop  the  onions  very  fine,  soak  the  bread  in  cold  water, 
squeeze  dry  and  add  to  the  meat,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  mix  well  and  mold  in  cakes,  then  fry  on  the  range 
in  very  little  grease. 

HAMBURGER  STEAK  NO.  Z 

50  lbs.  hamburger  5  lbs.  onions 

Chop  the  onions  very  fine,  mix  well  with  the  hamburger 
meat,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  mold  in  flat  cakes  and 
fry  on  a  smoking  hot  griddle,  using  a  small  quantity  of  fat 
to  keep  from  sticking. 

BEEF  LOAF 
Pass  35  pounds  of  meat  through  meat  grinder,  add  10 
pounds  of  bread-crumbs,  season  with  2  ounces  of  pepper, 
8  ounces  of  salt,  add  2  pounds  of  chopped  onions,  1^  dozen 
eggs,  1^  gallons  of  stock ;  mix  all  ingredients  well  and  form 
in  loaves.  Place  in  pans  and  bake  for  1^  hours  in  moderate 
oven,  basting  with  a  little  stock ;  serve  cold. 

BEEFSTEAK  PIE 

40  lbs.  beefsteak  2i  lbs.  lard 

5  lbs.  onions  6  oz.  baking  powder 

10  lbs.  flour  8  oz.  salt 

Cut  the  steak  in  6-ounce  pieces,  sear  well  in  a  hot,  well- 
greased  pan ;  place  the  meat  in  the  baking  pan,  slice  and  fry 


32  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

the  onions  slightly,  make  a  thin  brown  roux  in  the  pan  the 
steak  was  fried  in,  and  pour  over  the  steak,  there  should  be 
suflficient  to  just  cover  the  meat ;  prepare  a  biscuit  dough, 
cover  meat  and  bake  for  40  minutes. 

ROAST  BEEF  HEARTS 

40  pounds  of  beef  hearts,  salt  and  pepper,  bay-leaves, 
beef  drippings  and  flour.  Wash  the  hearts  in  cold  water, 
removing  all  the  blood  from  the  cavities;  have  some  water 
boiling  in  the  copper,  drop  the  hearts  and  bay-leaves  in  and 
boil  for  30  minutes,  remove  from  the  copper,  prepare  a 
bread  dressing,  place  a  layer  in  a  black  pan,  then  place  the 
hearts  on  top,  dredge  with  flour,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  little  beef  drippings,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 
baste  with  stock  and  serve  very  hot  with  a  brown  sauce. 

BEEF  STEW 

40  lbs.  peeled  potatoes  2  lbs.  tomatoes 

30  lbs.  beef  2  lbs.  flour 

10  lbs.  carrots  Salt  and  pepper  to 

10  lbs.  onions  taste 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  pare  the  vegetables,  cut  in 
fc /en-size  pieces  and  keep  separate  in  cold  water;  place  the 
meat  in  the  copper,  cover  with  water  and  cook  for  30 
minutes,  add  the  carrots,  onions  and  tomatoes,  cook  until 
tender,  skim  off  the  surplus  fat,  thicken  with  flour  and 
serve. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  -Sa 

BEEF  SEA  PIE 

Prepare  as  for  beef  stew  and  place  in  baking  pans;  pre- 
pare a  biscuit  dough,  cover  the  pans,  wash  with  beaten 
eggs  and  cook  30  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

RAGOUT  OF  BEEF 

Prepare  as  for  beef  stew,  except  after  cutting  the  meat  in 
pieces  place  some  drippings  or  fat  in  the  copper  and  allow  to 
become  hot,  then  flour  the  meat  well  and  add  to  the  fat  in 
the  copper.  When  meat  is  brown,  add  the  carrots  and 
onions  and  cook  a  little  longer,  add  the  tomatoes  and  suf- 
ficient water  to  well  cover  the  meat,  simmer  until  all  is 
tender  and  add  the  potatoes,  cook  until  done,  thicken  with 
brown  roux,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

BEEF  KIDNEYS 

Wash  and  soak  in  salt  water  35  pounds  of  kidneys  and 
cut  into  1-inch  cubes,  then  wash  and  put  on  in  cold  fresh 
water  and  bring  to  a  boil,  draw  off  the  water  and  wash 
thoroughly ;  place  scouse  kettle  on  range  with  drippings  and 
simmer  until  brown;  add  4  pounds  of  finely  chopped 
onions  and  4  tins  of  tomatoes,  season  with  8  ounces  of  salt, 
and  i  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  simmer  for  IJ  hours,  add 
4  gallons  of  stock  or  boiling  water  and  thicken  with  flour; 
this  can  be  served  with  boiled  rice  or  mashed  potatoes. 

BEEF  PLATES  BOILED 

« 

40  poimds  of  clear  meat,  sage  dressing.  Bone  the  meat 
and  split  to  make  an  even  surface,  prepare  a  sage  dressing, 

Digitized  by  VjLXjy  It: 


34  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

aaid  spread  evenly  on  the  surface,  then  roll  the  meat,  tie 
well  with  twine,  place  in  boiling  water,  to  which  has  been 
a(ided  a  few  bay-leaves,  cloves  and  thyme,  salt  and  pepper ; 
allow  to  boil  rapidly  for  30  minutes,  then  reduce  to  sim- 
mering and  slowly  cook  until  tender;  remove  and  slice. 
To  be  served  hot,  or  may  be  allowed  to  cool  and  serve  as 
cold  meats. 

BEEF  PLATES  BRAISED 

Same  quantities  as  above;  after  rolling  the  plates  they 
should  be  placed  in  the  copper  with  some  good  beef  drip- 
pings and  well  dredged  with  flour;  after  they  are  well 
ibrowned,  sufficient  water  should  be  added  to  partly  cover 
them,  then  add  spices,  let  simmer  until  very  tender,  and 
.serve  as  described  for  boiled  beef  plates. 

MINCED  BEEF  NO.  1 

Take  30  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  cook  (left  over  meats 
can  be  used),  put  through  meat  chopper  with  5  pounds  of 
onions,  place  in  scouse  kettle  with  a  little  butter,  add  2 
cans  of  tomatoes  and  place  on  back  of  range  to  simmer, 
add  8  ounces  of  salt,  2  ounces  of  pepper,  1  ounce  of  mace, 
4  ounces  of  chopped  parsley,  and  stock  enough  to  cover; 
thicken  with  flour  and  serve  on  toast. 

MINCED  BEEF  NO.  2 

Prepare  meat  same  as  recipe  No.  1.  Place  2  pounds 
of  butter  in  scouse  kettle,  when  melted  add  2  pounds  of 
flour,  stir  continuously,  when  smooth  add  3  gallons  of 

Digitized  by  VjLXjy  It: 


XJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  35 

stock,  i  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  8  ounces  of  salt.  Divide 
roux  into  two  scouse  kettles  or  receptacles  holding  8  gal- 
lons ;  take  6  pounds  of  onions,  parboil  for  30  minutes,  then 
run  through  chopper,  add  onions  to  chopped  meat,  then  add 
to  the  roux  and  simmer  20  minutes  and  serve  on  toast,  or 
serve  in  border  of  mashed  potatoes.  If  Spanish  minced 
beef  is  desired,  add  Spanish  peppers  and  lemon  juice. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE  NO.  1 

60  pounds  of  clear  meat  cut  in  4-ounce  pieces.  Place  in 
copper  with  4  pounds  of  beef  drippings,  and  simmer 
slowly  for  one-half  hour,  then  add  5  pounds  of  carrots,  cut 
in  1-inch  cubes,  6  pounds  of  sliced  onions  and  1  quart  of 
vinegar;  cover  and  simmer  20  minutes  longer,  stirring 
occasionally,  then  add  3  cans  of  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste ;  add  6  gallons  of  stock  or  water,  simmer  15  minutes 
thicken  with  2  or  3  pounds  of  flour  thickening;  serve  with 
boiled,  peeled  potatoes. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE  NO.  2 

Cut  60  pounds  of  round  of  beef  in  5-  or  6-pound  pieces, 
daub  with  3  pounds  of  fat,  salt  pork,  cut  in  ^-inch  strips, 
sesj  in  scouse  ketttle  with  beef  suet  until  brown,  add  1 
quart  of  vinegar,  1  ounce  cloves,  1  ounce  allspice,  8  ounces 
of  salt,  2  ounces  of  pepper,  add  stock  to  cover,  sinmier  3 
hours,  take  the  meat  out  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  about 
3  pounds  of  flour  thickening;  serve  with  mashed  potatoes 
or  stewed  macaroni  and  tomatoes. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


36  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

ROAST  VEAL 

Using  80  pounds  of  veal,  prepare  and  cook  in  the  same 
manner  as  roast  beef.  This  meat  should  be  cooked  well 
done,  and  may  be  served  with  a  dressing. 

FRICASSEE  OF  VEAL 

Cut  into  small  pieces  50  pounds  of  veal,  place  in  copper 
with  sufficient  water  to  cover,  add  10  pounds  of  finely 
chopped  onions  and  cook  until  tender.  Then  prepare  a 
good  cream  sauce  from  the  veal  stock,  add  the  yolks  of  a 
few  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  veal.  Season  and  simmer  a  few 
minutes.    Garnish  with  chopped  parsley  and  green  peas. 

VEAL  STEW 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  beef  stew. 

RAGOUT  OF  VEAL 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  ragout  of  beef. 

CREAM  OF  VEAL 

30  pounds  of  veal  and  5  pounds  of  ham  chopped  fine; 
prepare  roux.  Place  3  pounds  of  butter  or  drippings  in 
scouse  kettle,  add  2^  pounds  of  flour,  when  smooth  add 
2  gallons  of  milk,  cream  or  stock;  dilute  4  cans  of  cream 
in  3  gallons  of  water,  having  it  boiling  hot  before  adding 
to  roux,  stir  constantly,  adding  6  ounces  of  salt;  when 
smooth  add  meats,  1  ounce  of  nutmeg  and  ^  ounce  of 
cayenne  pepper,  simmer  10  minutes  and  serve  on  toast. 
Chicken  and  mutton  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  37 

VEAL  SALAD 

30  pounds  of  cooked  veal  and  5  pounds  of  pork,  chopped 
very  fine,  an  equal  quantity  of  chopped  cabbage  and  celery 
in  equal  proportion  to  meat.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
serve  with  boiled  dressing.  Cooked  potatoes  can  be  used  in 
place  of  so  much  cabbage  and  celery.  Dressing  is  made  of 
i  dozen  eggs,  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  4  oimces  of  mustard,  2 
cans  of  cream,  i  pound  of  butter,  "1  pound  of  sugar,  4 
ounces  of  flour,  and  4  quarts  of  water. 

VEAL  OR  BEEF  AND  POTATO  SALAD 

Peel  40  pounds  of  boiled  potatoes,  6  pounds  of  onions, 
sliced  thin,  chop  30  pounds  of  meat  very  fine,  and  cut  up 
potatoes  in  cubes,  add  2  ounces  of  pepper,  8  ounces  of  salt, 
1  gallon  of  hot  stock  or  boiling  hot  water,  2^  quarts  of  salad 
oil,  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  mix  thoroughly;  have  2  bunches 
of  parsley  chopped  fine  and  add  to  mixture,  which  means 
a  great  improvement.  Save  some  of  the  parsley  for  gar- 
nishing with  the  addition  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  thin 
slices  (lettuce  may  also  be  used) ;  this  salad  can  be  pre- 
pared with  boiled  dressing  or  mayonnaise  dressing,  omitting 
the  vinegar  and  oil. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  beef  croquettes. 

VEAL  OR  BEEF  LOAF 

40  pounds  of  meat,  2  bunches  of  parsley,  put  through  the 
meat  chopper,  add  6  pounds  of  stale,  soaked  bread,  8  eggs 
and  a  little  good  stock,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 

Digitized  by  VjUUy  It: 


38  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

mace  and  thyme.  Mold  in  loaves  and  place  in  baking  pans, 
cover  with  a  little  beef  drippings,  bacon  or  butter,  cook  in 
the  oven  about  1  hour,  basting  frequently  with  a  little  stock, 
then  it  may  be  served  hot  or  cold. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON 

76  pounds  of  mutton  cooked  the  same  as  boiled  beef; 
serve  with  caper,  onion  or  pickle  sauce. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  MUTTON 

Wash  75  pounds  of  mutton,  remove  shank  bone,  wipe 
dry  and  rub  well  with  ground  ginger  (this  removes  rank 
flavor),  then  cook  as  roast  beef;  serve  with  mint  sauce. 

ROAST  PORK  LOINS 

80  pounds  of  pork  loins,  remove  chine  bone  and  proceed 
as  for  roast  beef.  This  meat  must  be  served  well  done. 
Eeserve  the  bones  for  beans  or  pork  stew. 

STUFFED  SHOULDERS  OF  MUTTON  OR  VEAL 

80  pounds  of  shoulders,  remove  the  bones  and  fill  the 
cavities  with  a  good  sage  dressing,  then  proceed  as  for 
roast  beef. 

ROAST  LEG  OR  SHOULDER  OF  PORK 

76  pounds  of  pork,  remove  the  bone,  skin  the  fat,  and 
reserve  the  fat  for  baked  beans  or  fry  it  out  for  lard,  then 
place  the  meat  in  the  baking  pans  and  proceed  as  in  the 
usual  manner. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


TJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  39 

FRIED  PORK  CHOPS 

70  pounds  of  pork  loins,  cut  the  chops  very  thin,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  then  fry  in  hot  pans  on  the  range 
until  well  done. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


40  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 


VARIOUS  MEAT  RECIPES 

CORNED   BEEF  HASH 

Peel  and  boil  75  pounds  of  potatoes,  mash  them,  add  25 
pounds  of  chopped  corned  beef  and  5  pounds  of  chopped 
onions ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  place  in  a  well-greased 
baking  pan,  smooth  over  the  top,  baste  with  beef  drippings, 
bake  brown  in  the  oven.  This  hash  may  be  fried  and 
browned  on  both  sides  in  a  frying  pan  on  the  top  of  the 
range. 

BOILED  CORNED  BEEF 

Wash  75  pounds  of  corned  beef,  place  in  the  copper  in 
cold  water  and  bring  to  a  boil.  If  the  stock  is  too  salty, 
renew  the  water  and  let  boil  slowly  or  simmer  for  about 
3  hours. 

FRESH   BEEF   HASH 

Peel  and  cut  into  cubes  70  pounds  of  potatoes,  cook  in 
copper  until  almost  done,  then  drain.  Cut  25  pounds  of 
meat  into  small  cubes.  Have  5  pounds  of  partly  fried 
onions  in  4  pans,  add  the  meat  and  potatoes  to  them, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  saute  on  the  range  until 
brown. 

BEEF  CROQUETTES 

Eun  through  the  meat  chopper  40  pounds  of  cooked 
meats  and  3  pounds  of  parboiled  onions.  Put  in  the 
scouse  kettle  2  pounds  of  drippings  and  2  pounds  of  flour 
and  prepare  a  thick,  white  roux.     Add  this  to  the  meat 

Digitized  by  VjOU^  ItT 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  41 

and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  mace  and  chopped  parsley. 
When  shaped,  dredge  with  flour,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then 
in  cracker  or  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown  it 
deep,  hot  fat. 

BEEF  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

Eun  through  the  meat  chopper  25  pounds  of  cooked 
meat  and  3  pounds  of  parboiled  onions,  add  25  pounds  of 
cooked  mashed  potatoes,  mix  well,  let  cool,  shape,  ?ind  pro- 
ceed as  for  beef  croquettes.    Fry  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

FRIED  BEEF   LIVER 

Wash,  skin  and  remove  sinew  from  45  pounds  of  liver. 
Cut  into  slices  about  ^  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  in  plenty  of  flour  and  fry  in  a  little  hot  fat  until 
well  browned.  Cooking  liver  too  long  makes  it  hard  and 
tough.  I  If  bacon  is  to  be  served  with  the  liver,  use  only 
40  pounds  of  liver  and  add  10  pounds  of  bacon.  This  dish 
should  be  served  with  a  good  onion  gravy. 

VEAL  CUTLETS 

Take  60  pounds  of  veal  cutlets,  cut  thin.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  clip  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in 
bread-crumbs.    Fry  in  deep,  hot  fat  until  a  golden  brown. 

COLD  SLICED  CORNED   BEEF 

Place  the  tins  of  corned  beef  in  the  refrigerator  for  at 
least  24  hours  before  using,  then  remove  it  from  the  cans, 
cut  in  slices  ^  inch  thick,  and  replace  in  ice  box  until  ready 
to  serve. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


42  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

CORNED  BEEF  FRIED  IN   BATTER 

Slice  cold  corned  beef  in  J-inch  slices,  dip  in  good  batter 
and  fry  quickly  in  deep,  hot  fat,  then  serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 

RISSOLES  AND  CROQUETTES  OF  CORNED  BEEF 

Gut  the  cold  corned  beef  in  2-inch  cubes,  place  in  black 
pans  and  sauU  in  hot  oven,  drain  off  the  liquid,  then  brown 
some  salt  pork  (cut  in  small  dice)  on  the  range,  add  some 
chopped  onions,  then  add  sufficient  flour  to  absorb  all  the 
fat;  reduce  this  roux  with  the  liquid  from  some  tinned 
peas  and  the  strained  liquid  from  the  corned  beef,  season 
with  thyme,  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  then  add  some  parsley, 
and  cooked  diced  potatoes ;  add  the  peas  to  the  meat,  pour 
on  the  sauce,  cover  with  a  good  biscuit  paste  and  bake  in 
a  good  oven.  The  addition  of  canned  tomatoes  greatly 
improves  the  dish. 

BOILED  SALT  PORK   (NAVY) 

Remove  the  pork  from  the  barrels  and  cut  off  the  fat> 
allowing  only  about  i  inch  to  remain  on  the  lean  (return 
the  fat  to  the  barrels  and  reserve  for  other  use) ;  place  the 
pork  in  cold  water  to  soak  all  night.  When  ready  to  cook 
place  the  pork  in  the  copper  with  plenty  of  cold  water, 
allow  to  come  very  slowly  to  a  boil,  then  repeat  the  process 
twice  more,  and  the  last  time  allow  to  remain  simmering 
until  tender. 

FRIED  SALT  PORK 

After  the  pork  has  soaked  all  night  and  has  been  par- 
boiled, it  may  be  cut  in  slices  and  fried  on  the  range,  in  this 
case  it  is  advisable  to  allow  a  little  more  fat  to  remain.    A 

Digitized  by  VjOU^  ItT 


U.  S,  Navy  Cook  Book  43 

brown  gravy  may  be  made  by  frying  some  onions  in  a  pan, 
after  the  pork  has  cooked,  then  add  flour  and  reduce  with 
water. 

BOILED   HAM 

Ham  should  be  placed  in  cold  water  to  soak  over  night, 
then  washed  off  and  placed  in  the  copper  with  plenty  of  cold 
water  (if  very  salty  bring  very  slowly  to  a  boil  and  remove 
the  water  once  or  twice),  then  bring  to  a  boil,  simmer 
slowly  until  the  small  bone  in  the  hock  can  be  easily  removed. 
This  process  will  take  about  4  hours.  A  better  way  is  to 
allow  the  hams  to  boil  about  2  hours,  then  turn  off  the  steam 
and  cover  tight  and  allow  the  hams  to  finish  cooking  and 
cooling  at  the  same  time  in  their  own  liquid,  this  will  be  in 
about  4  hours  more.  This  method  produces  a  very  juicy 
ham. 

FRIED  SMOKED   HAM 

Take  65  pounds  of  ham,  wipe  clean  and  trim  the  hams. 
Cut  into  thin  slices,  place  in  pan  or  copper  of  cold  water 
(just  enough  to  cover  the  ham),  bring  water  to  a  boil  and 
strain  off.  Put  as  many  pans  as  necessary  on  the  range  and 
cover  the  bottom  with  clean  grease,  fry  ham  slowly  until 
brown  on  both  sides,  season  with  pepper  and  serve  with 
fried  eggs  or  with  fried  potatoes  (omitting  eggs),  or  with 
fried  hominy,  or  it  can  be  served  with  creamed  potatoes. 
Compressed  ham  can  be  used  in  place  of  smoked  ham,  in 
which  case  it  is  not  necessary  to  bring  the  ham  to  a  boil, 
and  use  only  35  pounds  of  ham. 

BAKED  SPICED  HAM 

Take  hams  that  have  not  been  boiled  too  much^  remove 
the  skin  and  stick  whole  cloves  in  the  faf  fliichSapart,  then 


44  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

dust  with  cinnamon,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
fine  bread-crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven,  basting  with 
fat  in  pan.  The  addition  of  a  few  sliced  onions  in  the  pan 
improves  the  flavor. 

TINNED  HAM 

Canned  ham  for  use  should  be  prepared  in  this  manner : 
Remove  the  hams  from  the  cans,  break  apart,  place  in 
black  pans  and  bake  in  a  good  hot  oven,  removing  the  fat 
and  liquid  from  time  to  time.  In  this  manner,  the  ham  will 
be  browned  and  will  have  the  flavor  of  fried  ham. 

FRIED  BACON 

The  bacon  may  be  sliced  in  thin  slices,  then  placed  in  cold 
water  and  allowed  to  come  to  a  slow  boil,  drain  off  all  the 
water  and  fry  on  top  of  the  range.  Bacon  should  not  be 
cooked  too  much,  for  it  has  a  tendency  to  dry  out  after 
cooking. 

SMOKED  TONGUE 

Tongues  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  over  night,  then 
cooked  in  the  same  way  as  ham ;  when  done  the  small  bone 
in  the  root  may  be  detached  and  the  skin  should  be  removed. 
As  with  ham,  tongues  are  greatly  improved  by  allowing 
them  to  cool  off  in  the  liquid  in  which  they  were  cooked. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  45 


POULTRY 

When  preparing  poultry,  if  frozen  it  should  be  thawed 
out  in  cold  water,  wiped  dry  and  all  the  pin  feathers  re- 
moved ;  then  cut  off  the  tips  of  the  wings,  feet  at  the  knee- 
joints,  cut  off  head  at  the  end  of  the  neck,  remove  crop, 
remove  the  oil  sack,  cut  around  the  vent,  make  a  cut  across 
the  belly,  and  remove  the  entrails,  taking  care  not  to  break 
the  gall  sack,  trim  off  the  liver,  gizzard  and  heart,  wash  the 
chicken  or  turkey.  All  poultry  should  be  singed  to  remove 
the  fine  hair. 

ROAST  TURKEY  OR  CHICKEN 
Clean  as  above,  stuff  with  bread  dressing,  place  in  baking 
pans,  place  a  slice  of  salt  pork  or  some  good  drippings  over 
the  breast  and  roast  in  oven,  basting  frequently. 

CHICKEN  STEW 

Cut  the  chicken  in  small  pieces,  wash  and  place  in  cold 
water,  add  some  peeled  aiid  sliced  onions,  simmer  slowly 
until  leg  of  chicken  is  tender,  add  some  cooked  diced 
potatoes,  thicken  with  flour,  season  and  serve. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


46  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 


METHOD  OF  PREPARING  AND  COOKING 
VEGETABLES 

All  vegetables  should  be  as  fresh  as  possible;  look  tlieni 
over,  wash  well,  removing  all  decayed  or  unripe  parts;  let 
them  stand  in  cold  water  for  some  time  before  using. 
Always  have  the  water  boiling  before  putting  them  in  it. 
Young  or  summer  vegetables  do  not  require  as  much  cook- 
ing as  old  ones*.  All  green  vegetables  should  be  cooked 
uncovered.  Potatoes  may  be  boiled  in  cold  or  hot  water. 
If  vegetables,  such  as  beets,  turnips  and  cabbage,  are  very 
old  and  tough,  a  little  bicarbonate  of  soda  cooked  in  the 
water  with  them  will  help  the  cooking.  All  dried  vegetables 
should  be  allowed  to  soak  in  cold  water  for  some  time 
before  using. 

BOILED   POTATOES 

Pare  and  eye  the  potatoes  and  boil  in  slightly  salted 
water ;  when  cooled,  drain  off  half  the  water,  place  a  little 
butter  on  top  of  the  potatoes,  drain  off  the  remainder  of  the 
water  and  pour  over  two  or  three  times,  finally  drain  off 
the  water,  then  allow  the  potatoes  to  steam. 

PEELED  BAKED  POTATOES 

Prepare  potatoes  as  for  boiling,  cut  large  ones  in  half, 
place. some  drippings  in  a  pan,  add  the  potatoes,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  tfake  in  hot  oven,  or  they  may  be 
browned  on  top  of  the  range  and  allowed  to  finish  cooking 
in  the  oven. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  47 

BAKED  POTATOES 

Wash,  wipe  and  cut  off  the  ends  of  some  good  round 
potatoes,  place  in  black  pan  and  bake  in  good  oven  until 
soft ;  these  potatoes  are  improved  if  a  little  grease  is  placed 
in  the  pan  in  which  they  are  cooked,  as  it  softens  the  skin. 

MASHED  POTATOES 

Prepare  as  for  boiled  potatoes;  when  boiled  remove  all 
the  water,  then  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  mash  well, 
being  careful  to  remove  all  lumps,  then  add  the  milk  and 
some  of  the  potato  stock  and  beat  well  to  make  light. 

SAUTE   POTATOES 

Take  whole  boiled  potatoes,  remove  the  skin  and  cut  in 
^-inch  slices,  have  a  pan  ready  containing  a  good  quantity 
of  beef  drippings,  heat  it  and  place  the  potatoes  in  the  pan, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  with  chopped 
parsley,  fry  on  top  of  the  range  until  well  done. 

LYONNAISE   POTATOES 

Prepare  as  for  saute  potatoes,  with  the  exception  that 
before  placing  the  potatoes  in  the  pan,  have  some  sliced 
onions  fried  in  the  pan,  mix  all  together,  then  fry  as  for 
saute  potatoes. 

HASH   BROWN   POTATOES 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  peel  and  chop  up  in  small  dice, 
have  a  pan  ready  on  the  range  with  some  beef  drippings  in 
it,  heat  well  and  add  the  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  some  chopped  parsley,  fry  a  few  minutes,  this 

Digitized  by  VjLXjy  It: 


48  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

makes  the  potatoes  into  a  compact  mass,  and  brown  well 
on  both  sides ;  or,  after  frying  them  they  may  be  browned 
in  the  oven,  first  covering  them  with  a  little  grease. 

FRENCH   FRIED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes,  cut  into  long  cubes  and 
place  in  cold  water  to  stand  for  one  hour,  then  drain  off 
the  water  and  remove  as  much  as  possible  from  the  potatoes ; 
have  a  pan  of  boiling  fat  ready  and  fry  the  potatoes  a  golden 
brown,  season  with  salt  after  cooking. 

AMERICAN   FRIES 

Take  some  cold  boiled  potatoes,  remove  the  skin  and  cut 
into  1-inch  cubes,  fry  a  golden  brown  in  good,  deep,  hot  fat, 
season  with  salt  after  frying. 

COTTAGE  FRIED  POTATOES 

Take  new  peeled  potatoes  and  cut  into  thin  slices,  have 
a  pan  ready  in  which  there  is  a  quantity  of  fat,  then  add  the 
potatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  on  a  range, 
then  finish  cooking  in  the  oven. 

STUFFED  BAKED  POTATOES 

Prepare  and  cook  potatoes  as  for  baked  potatoes;  when 
cooked  cut  through  the  center  and  remove  the  potatoes  from 
the  skin,  mash,  season  with  salt,  butter,  chopped  parsley 
and  milk,  mash  well,  refill  the  skin,  brush  the  surface  of  the 
potatoes  with  a  little  milk  or  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  then 
rook  in  a  quick  oven. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  49 

POTATO  CROQUETTES 

Prepare  some  thick  mashed  potatoes  adding  some  egg 
yolks,  when  ahnost  cold,  mold  in  any  desired  shape,  dip  in 
flour  and  beaten  eggs  and  then  roll  in  cracker  dust  or 
bread-crumbs,  fry  quickly  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

POTATO  CAKES 

,  Make  preparations  as  for  potato  croquettes,  mold  in 
round,  flat  cakes,  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  a  small  quantity 
of  fat  until  slightly  brown  on  both  sides. 

CREAMED  POTATOES 

Peel  and  cut  into  salted  water,  and  boil  until  about  three 
parts  cooked,  remove  the  water  and  prepare  a  good  cream 
sauce,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  potatoes  and  allow  them  to 
simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  then  sprinkle  with  chopped 
parsley  and  serve. 

BOILED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Wash  and  remove  the  ends  of  the  potatoes,  place  in  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  until  soft,  peel  and  return  to  copper, 
pour  over  some  melted  butter,  then  allow  them  to  steam  for 
a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Prepare  as  for  boiled  potatoes,  allow  them  to  become  cold, 
remove  the  skins  and  cut  into  thick  slices,  fry  in  deep,  hot 
fat,  or  cut  in  thick  slices  and  saute  in  a  very  little  fat,  the 
same  as  for  saute  potatoes. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


50  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Prepare  as  for  boiling,  remove  the  skins,  place  in  well- 
greased  pans,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  brown  in  a 
good  hot  oven. 

BAKEP  SWEET  POTATOES 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  white  potatoes. 

BOILED  CABBAGE 

Remove  the  decayed  parts,  cut  the  cabbages  in  fourths 
or  eighths  according  to  size,  remove  the  stem  and  place  in 
cold  water  to  soak,  wash  well,  drain  and  place  in  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  thickest  stems  are  tender.  A  handful 
of  salt  thrown  in  the  water  when  soaking  young  spring 
cabbage  will  cause  any  worms  that  may  be  in  it  to  come  out ; 
care  should  be  taken  that  none  remain  in  the  cabbage. 

HOT  SLAW 

After  washing  the  cabbage,  take  a  vegetable  slicer  or  a 
sharp  knife  and  slice  the  cabbage  very  fine  in  strips,  have 
sufficient  boiling  water  in  the  copper  to  half  cov^r  the 
cabbage,  cook  until  about  half  done,  then  add  the  following 
ingredients:  Oil,  vinegar,  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  sufficient 
to  taste.  The  addition  of  a  few  sliced  onions  cooked  with 
the  cabbage  is  relished  by  some  people. 

COLD  SLAW 

Slice  the  cabbage  same  as  for  hot  slaw,  and  add  a  good 
Prench  dressing  one  hour  before  using. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  51 


BOILED  TURNIPS 


The  best  turnips  for  serving  boiled  are  early  summer 
turnips,  white ;  these  should  be  peeled,  cut  in  quarters  and 
boiled  in  salted  water.  The  most  common  turnips  are  the 
yellow  ones,  and  are  difficult  sometimes  to  soften;  these 
should  be  peeled,  washed,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  placed 
in  boiling  water,  to  which  has  been  added  a  small  quantity 
of  baking  soda,  boil  until  tender.  When  serving  turnips 
this  way  they  are  usually  cooked  with  salt  pork  or  corned 
beef  to  give  them  a  flavor. 

MASHED  TURNIPS 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  boiled  turnips ;  after  cook- 
ing tender  drain  off  the  water,  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
mash  well  and  drain  through  colander. 

MASHED  TURNIPS  WITH    POTATOES 

Prepare  as  for  mashed  turnips,  adding  one-third  potatoes. 
Mixing  this  is  a  good  method  for  it  removes  any  strong 
flavor  that  is  in  the  turnips. 

CREAMED  TURNIPS 

Prepare  as  for  boiled  turnips,  cutting  them  into  1-incli 
cubes,  boil  and  drain  off  the  water,  add  a  good  cream  sauce, 
simmer  for  10  minutes  and  serve. 

BOILED  CARROTS 

Scrape  off  the  outside  skins,  wash  and  cut  lengthwise  in 
two,  allow  them  to  remain  in  cold  water  for  1  hour,  and  boil 
in  salted  water,  ham  stock  or  corn  beef  stock. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


52  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

BOILED  CARROTS  WITH  GREEN  PEAS 

Prepare  as  for  boiling,  cut  them  in  J-ineh  dice,  boil  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  cooked,  then  add  the  same  quan- 
tity of  tinned  peas,  thicken  with  a  little  roux,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper ;  a  little  butter  may  be  added. 

CREAMED  CARROTS 

Prepare  as  for  boiled  carrots,  cutting  them  in  1-inch 
cubes,  boil  in  salted  water,  drain  them,  add  cream  sauce. 

BOILED  ONIONS 

Remove  the  skins,  roots  and  tops,  wash  in  cold  water, 
boil  in  salted  boiling  water  until  tender,  then  drain  off  the 
water,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

CREAMED  ONIONS 

Prepare  same  as  for  boiled  onions,  drain  the  water,  then 
add  a  good  cream  sauce  prepared'  from  the  stock  of  the 
onions. 

FRIED  ONIONS 

Prepare  onions  same  as  for  boiling,  slice  in  J-inch  sUces ; 
place  a  black  pan  on  the  range,  then  add  water  to  cover  the 
bottom,  put  the  onions  in,  then  add  about  2  pounds  of  fat, 
invert  another  pan  over  it  and  allow  them  to  steam  until 
all  the  water  has  evaporated,  then  remove  the  inverted  pan 
and  finish  frying, 

BOILED  PARSNIPS 

Prepare  and  cook  in  the  same  manner  as  for  carrots, 
serving  with  plenty  of  butter  over  them. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  53 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  creamed  carrots. 

BOILED  KALC 

Wash  and  remove  the  decayed  parts,  cut  off  the  large 
stock  and  soak  in  cold  water,  then  drain  off  and  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender ;  or,  it  may  be^  cooked  in 
ham  or  salt  pork  stock,  thereby  adding  to  the  flavor. 

BOILED  SPINACH 

Prepare  and  cook  in  the  same  way  as  boiled  kale,  with 
the  exception  that  very  little  water  is  required  to  cook  it  in. 

FRIED  EGGPLANT 

Eemove  the  outside  skin  and  slice  in  ^-inch  slices,  pre- 
pare a  batter  of  eggs,  flour  and  baking  powder,  and  fry  in 
deep,  boiling  fat;  or,  slices  may  be  dipped  in  flour  and  fried 
in  a  little  fat. 

BOILED  STRING  BEANS,  FRESH 

Beans  should  be  perfectly  fresh,  the  ends  and  strings 
removed  and  boiled  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  if  the  beans 
are  very  large  they  may  be  sliced  lengthwise.  Cooked  bacon, 
ham  or  salt  pork  with  the  beans  greatly  add  to  the  flavor. 

GREEN   PEAS,  FRESH 

Shell  the  peas,  allow  them  to  soak  in  cold  water  and  cook 
in  salted  water  until  soft  to  the  touch,  drain  off  the  water 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


54  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

LIMA  BEANS,  FRESH 
Prepare  and  cook  in  the  same  manner  as  green  peas. 

BOILED  LIMA   BEANS,  DRIED 

Place  the  beans  in  cold  water,  wash  and  remove  all  the 
straw  and  dirt  floating  on  top  of  the  water;  repeat  this 
process  at  least  twice,  then  remove  the  beans  by  means  of  a 
colander  putting  the  beans  to  soak  in  clean,  fresh  water 
for  at  least  5  hours;  then  drain  off  the  water,  add  fresh 
water  and  allow  to  come  slowly  to  a  boil,  cook  until  tender, 
drain  off  the  water  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

GREEN   PEAS,  DRIED 
Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  dried  lima  beans. 

KIDNEY  BEANS,  DRIED 

Prepare  and  cook  in  the  same  manner  as  dried  lima 
beans,  and  if  preferred,  a  thin,  white  sauce  may  be  prepared 
and  added  to  any  other  vegetables  to  be  served,  making 
them  go  further. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  55 


THICKENING  AGENTS  AND  SAUCES 

The  use  of  sauces  for  meats,  vegetables  and  certain  des- 
serts is  required  to  give  flavor  to  what  may  be  otherwise  a 
tasteless  dish.  In  cooking,  certain  cuts  of  meats,  owing  to 
their  toughness,  usually  require  prolonged  cooking  and  if 
it  were  not  for  the  sauce  served  with  them  they  would  be 
exceedingly  unpalatable  and  tasteless.  A  number  of  sauces 
are  thick,  and  about  the  consistency  of  good  cream.  There 
are  several  methods  of  producing  this  condition  by  means 
of  the  following  preparations : 

WHITE   ROUX 

White  roux  may  be  prepared  from  either  butter  fats,  or 
oil;  when  prepared  from  the  latter  we,  of  course,  do  not 
obtain  the  individual  flavor  of  butter,  consequently  the  roux 
is  not  rich.  Take  equal  quantities  of  good  drippings  and 
sieve  in  the  flour,  stirring  continually  until  the  mass  be- 
comes firm,  care  must  be  taken  that  it  does  not  become 
brown. 

BROWN  ROUX 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  white  roux,  using*  one- 
fourth  more  drippings.  Heat  the  drippings  to  a  frying 
point,  then  sieve  in  the  flour,  stirring  continually  until  the 
desired  color  has  been  obtained,  care  must  be  taken  that  the 
heat  is  not  too  intense  or  the  flour  will  not  brown  evenly. 

Digitized  by  V_i O^J^  I tT 


56  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

FLOUR 

In  using  flour  as  a  medium  for  thickening  sauces,  stews, 
etc.,  care  must  be  taken  that  it  has  been  worked  perfectly 
smooth ;  sieve  the  flour  in  the  pan,  then  make  a  large  hole 
in  the  center  of  the  flour,  place  the  cold  water  in  the  center 
and  with  a  spoon  or  wire,  stir  or  whip  the  water  in  rotation, 
the  water  will  gradually  absorb  the  flour,  producing  a 
smooth  paste. 

CORNSTARCH 

This  article  is  used  where  a  clear,  transparent  sauce  is 
required,  it  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  flour. 

BROWN  SAUCE 

Eeduce  a  brown  roux  with  stock,  fry  a  few  onions,  add  to 
the  sauce  and  simmer  for  30  minutes,  then  strain  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

WHITE  SAUCE 

Reduce  a  good  white  roux  with  some  good  white  stock, 
chop  or  grind  a  few  onions,  add  to  the  sauce,  allow  to 
simmer  for  30  minutes,  then  strain,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  small  piece  of  butter. 

CREAM   SAUCE 

Reduce  a  white  roux  with  boiling  milk  to  the  desired 
(onsistency, "season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  finish  with 
a  little  cream. 

CAPER  SAUCE 

Prepare  a  good  white  sauce,  add  whole  capers  or  finely 
tlioj)ped  pickles ;  if  capers  are  used  a  small  quantity  of  the 

Digitized  by  VjCXJ*^  ItT 


TJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  57 

taragon  vinegar  may  be  added.    The  stock  from  the  boiling 
mutton  may  be  used  in  preparing  the  white  roux. 

ONION  SAUCE 

Prepare  a  thick  cream  sauce,  slice  up  tfie  onions  and  boil 
separately,  when  cooked  tender  add  to  the  cream  sauce, 
season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

CELERY  SAUCE 

Boil  the  tops  and  roots  of  celery  in  some  good  stock, 
when  tender  mash  and  strain,  thicken  the  liquid  with  a 
white  roux,*  take  the  tender  white  parts  of  celery,  dice  in 
small  pieces  and  boil,  when  tender  add  to  the  sauce,  season 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

Prepare  a  good  white  sauce,  add  sufficient  grated  horse- 
radish to  flavor  well. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE 

Heat  some  water  to  a  boiling  point,  then  thicken  well 
with  cornstarch,  beat  some  eggs  well,  together  with  some 
sugar,  milk  and  vanilla  extract ;  when  the  thickened  water 
has  cooled  off  well,  add  the  mixture,  allow  to  come  almost 
to  a  boiling  point,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil,  then  serve. 

VANILLA  SAUCE 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  custard  sauce,  flavoring 
well  with  vanilla  extract 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


58  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

TINNED  FRUIT  SAUCE 

Take  the  syrup  from  tinned  fruit,  add  suflBcient  sugar  to 
sweeten,  add  a  little  lemon  peel  and  then  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  then  thicken  with  corn- 
starch, boil  for  10  minutes,  then  serve. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

Bring  some  water  to  a  boil,  mix  well  together  sufficient 
cornstarch  and  enough  cocoa  to  give  a  light  brown  color, 
add  to  the  boiling  water,  cook  10  minutes,  then  allow  to 
cool  off.  Beat  well  together  some  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla, 
add  to  the  liquid,  heat  and  serve. 

HARD  SAUCE 

Cream  some  butter  with  the  hand  with  twice  the  amount 
of  powdered  sugar ;  when  soft  as  thick  cream,  add  flavoring 
of  nutmeg  and  some  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  beat  well 
together  with  an  egg-whip  and  set  aside  in  the  refrigerator 
to  become  hard. 

GOLDEN  SAUCE 

Prepare  a  hard  sauce,  then  substitute  yolks  of  eggs  for 
the  white  and  mix,  omit  nutmeg,  using  a  flavoring  of 
vanilla. 

The  following  sauces  are  suitable  for  service  with  the 
articles  mentioned: 

Roast  Meats. — Brown  sauce,  tomato  sauce,  onion  sauce. 

Boiled  Meats, — Caper  sauce,  onion  sauce,  horseradish 
sauce,  celery  sauce. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  59 

Roast  Chicken  and  Turkey. — Giblet  sauce,  brown  sauce, 
Spanish  sauce. 

Fried  Chicken, — Cream  sauce,  celery  sauce,  tomato 
sauce. 

Breaded  and  Fried  Pork,  Mutton  and  Veal  Chops. — 
Brown  sauce,  tomato  sauce,  mustard  sauce. 

Roast  Mutton, — Brown  sauce,  mint  sauce,  dish  gravy. 

Boiled  Mutton, — Caper  sauce,  onion  sauce,  celery  sauce. 

Boiled  Poultry. — Egg  sauce,  cream  sauce,  celery  sauce. 

Baked  Fish. — ^Tomato  sauce,  pan  sauce. 

Fried  Fish. — Tartar  sauce,  tomato  sauce. 

Boiled  Fish. — Egg  sauce,  cream  sauce,  drawn  butter 
sauce,  parsley  sauce. 

Croquettes  and  Meat  Cakes. — Tomato  sauce,  brown  sauce, 
onion  sauce. 

Roast  Ham, — Spanish  sauce,  tomato  sauce,  brown  sauce. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


60  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 


DESSERTS,  PUDDINGS,  PASTRIES 
(FOR  100  MEN) 

BREAD  PUDDING  NO.  1 

Take  8  pounds  of  stale  bread,  cut  in  1-inch  cubes,  put  in 
2  baking  pans,  beat  up  in  dishpan  1  dozen  of  eggs,  2  pounds 
of  sugar,  2  ounces  of  salt,  3  pounds  of  evaporated  milk,  3 
ounces  of  extract,  3  gallons  of  water,  mix  and  pour  over 
the  bread,  then  spread  over  each  pan  ^  pound  of  currants, 
previously  well  washed  and  picked,  shake  a  little  cinnamon 
or  nutmeg  over  the  top  and  allow  to  stand  i  hour.  Then 
bake  in  slow  oven  for  1  hour.  Small  pieces  of  butter  placed 
over  the  pudding  before  baking  improves  it.  This  pudding 
should  be  served  with  custard  sauce. 

BREAD  PUDDING   NO.  2 

Take  8  pounds  of  stale  bread,  soak  in  cold  water,  squeezt^ 
perfectly  dry,  mix  2  cans  of  evaporated  milk,  1  gallon  of 
water,  2  pounds  of  sugar,  1  dozen  eggs,  2  quarts  of 
molasses,  1  ounce  of  cinnamon,  2  ounces  of  salt,  ^  ounce  of 
cloves,  i  ounce  of  nutmeg,  mix  all  ingredients  well  together, 
pour  over  the  bread,  let  stand  for  15  rtiinutes,  then  add  2 
pounds  of  currants,  2  pounds  of  raisins,  2  pounds  of 
chopped  evaporated  apples.  Have  black  pans  well  greased, 
divide  the  mixture  in  them,  smooth  off  the  top  and  cover 
with  some  pieces  of  butter  or  beef  drippings,  bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  1  hour.  If  the  mixture  appears  dry 
add  a  little  more  water. 

Digitized  by  VjOU^  ItT 


U.  S.  Nats-  Cook  Book  61 

LEMON  SUET  PUDDING 

14  lbs.  stale  bread  4  cans  milk 

5  lbs.  suet  4  oz.  lemon  extract 

5  lbs.  sugar  2  gals,  water 

18  eggs 

Soak  the  bread  in  cold  water,  squeeze  dry,  beat  the  eggs, 
sugar,  extract  and  milk  together,  then  add  the  salt  and 
water.  Chop  the  suet  fine,  mixing  with  it  1  pound  of  flour, 
then  add  all  the  ingredients  together,  using  sufficient  water 
to  moisten.  Bake  slowly  for  2  hours,  basting  the  top  with 
some  melted  butter,  serve  with  molasses  or  lemon  sauce. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

9  lbs.  flour  1^  lbs.  lard  or  butter 

9  oz.  baking  powder  4  oz.  salt 

6  lbs.  sugar  2  oz.  extract 

1  doz.  eggs  1^  gals,  water 

Cream  sugar  and  lard  weU  together  and  add  eggs,  one  at 
&  time;  beat  well  and  then  sieve  in  the  flour  and  baking 
powder,  then  moisten  with  water.  Bake  in  greased  pans 
and  serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

INDIAN   PUDDING 

9  lbs.  cornmeal  3  pts.  molasses 

3  lbs.  flour  4  qts.  water 

3  oz.  salt  8  lbs.  can  milk 

8  oz.  butter  1  oz.  ground  ginger 

Place  the  water,  milk,  butter,  syrup  and  salt  in  the  copper 
and  let  heat,  then  add  the  cornmeal  and  ginger  and  flour, 
the  latter  ingredients  being  previously  mixed  welljgg^|her. 


62  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

Stir  well  and  mix,  then  let  cook  for  about  30  minutes. 
Place  in  well-greased  pans,  smooth  off  the  top  with  butter 
and  bake  for  about  2  hours,  then  serve  with  molasses  sauce. ^ 

RICE  CUSTARD  PUDDING 

9  lbs.  rice  1^  doz.  eggs 

5  lbs.  sugar  6  oz.  salt 

4  lbs.  can  milk  2  oz.  extract 

4  gals,  water  8  oz.  butter 

Wash  and  boil  the  rice  in  salted  water.  Put  in  buttered 
pans.  Cream  sugar,  butter  and  eggs,  add  the  milk  and  the 
extract.  Mix  part  of  this  with  pudding,  and  spread  the 
other  over  the  top.    Let  bake  in  slow  oven  until  light  brown. 

CUSTARD  PUDDING 

4J  doz.  eggs   ■  3  qts.  water 

15  lbs.  milk  4  lbs.  sugar 

1  lb.  flour  i  oz.  nutmeg 

Whip  the  eggs  light  with  sugar,  add  the  flour,  nutmeg, 
milk  and  water.  Put  buttered  dishes  in  pans  of  water. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  cooked. 

CORNSTARCH  PUDDING 

9  lbs.  cornstarch  6  lbs.  milk 

5  lbs.  sugar         ;  2  doz.  eggs 

4  oz.  extract  9  gals,  water 

^  lb.  butter  6  oz.  salt 

Place  the  water,  sugar,  salt,  butter  and  milk  in  the 
copper  and  allow  to  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  the  cornstarch 
with  cold  water  and  add  to  the  ingredients  in  the  copper. 
Stir  well,  shut  off  the  steam  and  when  cooled  off  add  well- 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  63 

)eateii  egg  yolks  and  extract.  Place  in  pans,  beat  the  egg 
fhites  to  a  frost  and  spread  on  top,  then  bake  in  the  oven 
intil  brown. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

10  lbs.  tapioca  i  lb.  butter 

6  lbs.  sugar  4  cans  milk 

4  oz.  extract  1  doz.  eggs 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  cold  water  for  30  minutes,  then  turn 
on  the  steam  until  cooked  soft,  add  the  butter  and  mix  the 
beaten  eggs,  sugar  and  milk  well  together,  then  add  the 
tapioca  after  it  has  cooled  off.  Place  in  baking  pans  and 
bake  in  the  oven  until  I -own  on  top,  then  allow  to  cool  off 
before  serving. 

STEWPD  APPLES  OR  APPLE  SAUCE 

10  lbs.  evaporated   apples  ^  oz.  cinnamon 

3  lbs.  sugar  1  lb.  cornstarch 

Soak  the  apples  as  long  as  possible  in  cold  water,  then 
boil  in  fresh  water  to  which  has  been  added  ^  ounce  of  cook- 
ing soda.  Add  the  cornstarch,  previously  mixed  with  cold 
water;  strain  and  mash  through  a  sieve,  then  add  sugar 
and  spices  and  serve  cold. 

STEWED  PEACHES 

12  lbs.  peaches  3  lbs.  cornstarch 

4  lbs.  sugar  Peel  of  3  lemons 

Soak  the  peaches  in  cold  water,  boil  in  water  to  which  has 
been  added  ^  ounce  of  soda ;  when  well  cooked  add  the  corn- 
starch, previously  mixed  with  cold  water,  then  add  the 

_  J  1 J  Digitizedby  VjOOy  Itr 

»ugar  and  serve  cold.  ^ 


64  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES 

MACARONI   RECIPE  NO.  1 

Place  10  pounds  macaroni  in  boiling  water,  add  8  ounce 
of  salt  and  boil  for  25  minutes,  or  until  soft,  then  drain  of 
water.  Braise  20  pounds  of  fresh  beef  in  a  scouse  kettl< 
until  tender  with  5  pounds  of  onions,  add  3  cans  of  tomatoes 
and  stock,  season  to  taste.  Pour  contents  over  macaroni 
Place  in  baking  pans,  sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs  anc 
grated  cheese  and  place  in  a  moderate  ovcd.  Bake  about  Ic 
minutes. 

MACARONI   RECIPE  NO.  2 

Prepare  18  pounds  macaroni  same  as  recipe  No.  1.  Place 
on  range  6  gallons  of  stock  and  4  gallons  of  milk  and  let 
come  to  a  boil,  then  make  roux  by  placing  in  scouse  kettle 
4  pounds  of  drippings  and  2|  pounds  of  flour,  J  ounce  of 
nutmeg  and  i  ounce  of  red  pepper;  stir  briskly,  add  the 
stock  until  thin  enough,  add  8  ounces  of  salt,  then  place 
macaroni  in  pans  and  cover  with  the  above  ingredients, 
cover  with  plenty  of  cheese,  then  with  bread  crumbs.  Place 
on  top  cubes  of  butter  or  drippings  and  bake  in  oven  tiiitil 
brown. 

POTATO  AU-GRATIN 

Prepare  as  creamed  potatoes,  then  place  potatoes  in  a 
pan  or  dish  and  mix  in  some  grated  cheese,  smooth  off  the 
top  and  sprinkle  with  plenty  of  cracker  dust,  then  some 
more  cheese,  and  finally  bake  in  a  hot  oven  with  some  small 
pieces  of  butter  until  well  browned«itizedby>^uuyit: 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  65 

BAKED  BEANS 

3J  gals,  beans  2  oz.  mustard 

1  lb.  salt  3  lbs.  salt  pork 
1^  pts.  molasses  2  lbs.  onions 

2  oz.  pepper 

Th0  beans  should  first  be  washed  and  then  picked  over, 

removing  all  the  foreign  particles,  they  should  then  be 

soaked  in  cold  water  for  at  least  6  or  7  hours,  the  water 

drained  off  and  replaced  by  fresh.     They  should  then  be 

brought  slowly  to  a  boil  and  cooked  until  the  skins  will 

readily  come  off  by  pressure  between  the  fingers.    Drain  off 

the  water  and  prepare  a  mixture  of  molasses,  salt,  pepper 

and  dry  mustard,  then  add  to  the  beans  and  mix  well. 

Take  scouse  kettle  and  place  layer  of  beans  on  the  bottom, 

then  take  2  onions,  slice  and  place  on  the  beans,  then  the 

pork  cut  in  small  pieces.    Fill  the  kettle  to  about  2  inches 

from  the  top.     Place  more  pork  or  ham  fat,  add  enough 

water  to  just  cover  beans  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  at  least 

6  or  7  hours,  adding  water  as  it  evaporates. 

BOILED   HOMINY 

8  lbs.  hominy  1  lb.  butter 

4^  gals,  water  |  lb.  salt 

4  lbs.  milk 

Place  water  in  the  copper,  add  and  dissolve  the  salt. 
Turn  on  the  steam  and  stir  in  the  hominy,  let  it  cook  slowly 
until  almost  cooked,  then  add  the  milk  and  butter.  Finish 
cooking  and  serve.  In  case  coarse  hominy  or  grits  are 
used,  soaking  in  cold  water  improves  it. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


J 


GS  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

FRIED   HOMINY 

Cook  as  for  boiled  hominy;  take  black  pans,  cover  the  *: 
bottoms  with  paper,  then  put  the  boiled  hominy  in  pans, 
level  off  and  allow  to  become  cold,  turn  the  pan  upside 
down  on  the  table,  remove  the  paper,  cut  in  slices,  dip  in 
beaten  eggs  and  flour  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

JOHNNY  CAKES 

12  lbs.  cornmeal  6  oz.  salt 

i  lb.  butter 

Place  the  cornmeal  in  the  copper,  add  salt  and  butter, 
then  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  thick  paste;  fry 
spoonfuls  on  a  well-greased  griddle,  browning  both  sides ' 
of  cakes. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES 


I 


12  lbs.  flour 

Salt 

8  oz.  baking  powder 

12  eggs 

4  lbs.  milk 

Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  well  together,  re- 
duce the  milk  with  water,  beat  the  eggs  light,  add  the  milk 
to  the  flour,  then  add  the  eggs.  Care  should  be  taken  in 
mixing  all  kinds  of  batter  containing  baking  powder,  as  the 
more  it  is  worked  the  greater  the  loss  of  the  gas  from  the 
baking  powder.  Griddle  cakes  of  all  descriptions  should  be 
cooked  on  a  well-greased  and  hot  griddle  on  the  top  of  the 
range.  The  top  of  the  range  may  be  well  cleaned  and  the 
cakes  cooked  on  the  plates,  pieces  of  fat  pork  or  such  thing 
being  the  mest  medium  for  doing  this. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


TJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  67 

BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

12  lbs.  flour  8  oz.  baking  powder 

5  lbs.  stale  bread       6  eggs 
1  qt.  molasses  2  lbs.  milk 

4  oz.  salt 

Put  bread  to  soak  in  warm  water,  when  well  soaked 
squeeze  dry  arid  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  milk  and  molasses ; 
sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder,  add  to  the 
prepared  bread,  mix  together  and  fry  on  well-greased 
griddle. 

CORNMEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

Prepare  the  same  way  as  griddle  cakes,  substituting  3 
pounds  of  cornmeal  for  three-fourths  flour,  and  adding  a 
small  quantity  of  molasses. 

BREAD  DRESSING  FOR  PORK  OR  VEAL 

8  lbs.  stale  bread  i  oz.  sage 

6  oz.  salt  i  oz.  pepper 

6  lbs.  beef  drippings  Eind  of  2  lemons, 

4  lbs.  onions  chopped  fine 
i  oz.  thyme 

Put  the  bread  to  soak  in  warm  water  and  when  soft 
squeeze  very  dry,  add  the  seasoning  and  cut  very  fine.  Melt 
the  drippings  and  mix  with  the  preparations.  Place  in 
well-greased  pans  and  bake  in  oven,  adding  a  little  more 
fat  over  the  top  if  it  becomes  too  dry. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


68  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

OYSTER  DRESSING  FOR  POULTRY 

8  lbs.  stale  bread  or  crumbs         1  lb.  parsley 
2  qts.  oysters  J  lb.  butter 

6  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

Strain  the  oysters,  remove  all  shells  and  place  the  liquid 
on  the  fire,  allow  to  come  to  a  boil,  remove  the  scum  and 
strain  over  the  bread.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and  add  to  the 
bread,  then  add  the  parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter 
and  oysters.  Mix  and  stuff  the  poultry,  or  it  may  be  baked 
in  greased  pans. 

SWEET  POTATO  DRESSING  FOR  POULTRY 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  for  oyster  dressing.  Sub- 
stitute sweet  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces  and  use  5  pounds 
of  bread  instead  of  8  pounds, 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Green  peppers  may  be  stuffed  with  any  meat  croquette 
preparation  or  may  be  stuffed  with  a  mixture  of  boiled  rice 
and  chopped  meat.  The  peppers  should  be  cut  through  the 
center  and  all  seeds  removed.  Tlie  stalks  may  be  trimmed 
off  and  if  desired  they  may  be  blanched  in  boiled  water, 
boiling  for  5  minutes.  This  removes  the  necessity  of  being 
too  long  in  the  oven,  and  also  removes  some  of  the  heat  of 
the  pepper.  After  blanching  they  should  be  stuffed  with  the 
preparation,  a  little  cracker-  or  bread-crumbs  placed  on  the 
top,  then  place  in  baking  pans  and  brown  well  in  the  oven, 
basting  frequently  with  a  little  milk  or  butter. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  69 

POTATO  SALAD 

40  lbs.  potatoes  Parsley 

5  lbs.  onions 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  remove  the  skins  and  slice 
very  thin,  add  the  chopped  parsley  and  thinly  sliced  onions, 
then  prepare  a  French  dressing  and  mix  well  together,  let 
stand  1  hour  before  serving. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD 

19  lbs.  string  beans  2  pts.  vinegar 

(no  liquid)  2  pts.  oil 

4  lbs.  onions    ,  8  oz.  salt 

3  lbs.  potatoes  1  oz.  pepper 

1  doz.  eggs  i  oz.  mustard 

Peel  the  boiled  potatoes,  allow  to  become  cold ;  cliop  the 
onions  fine  and  add  the  well-drained  beans.  Prepare  the 
dressing  by  adding  the  yolk  of  the  eggs  to  potatoes  (now 
mashed),  then  the  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  mixing  and 
rubbing  well  together,  then  add  the  oil  and  vinegar  a  little 
at  a  time,  stirring  continuously  until  all  is  used.  The 
dressing  is  then  mixed  with  the  string  beans  and  garnished 
with  lettuce. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  string  bean  salad.  Any 
kind  of  cooked  vegetables  may  be  used,  such  as  beets,  pota- 
toes, green  peas,  string  beans ;  and  raw  vegetables,  such  as 
celery,  onions,  lettuce  and  green  apples.  All  to  be  cut  in 
small  pieces,  mixed  well  together,  then  add  dressing  and 
garnish  with  lettuce  leaves. 

Digitized  by  VjLXjy  It: 


70  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

CUCUMBERS 

30  pounds  of  cucumbers.  Peeled  and  placed  in  cold 
water  to  soak,  then  thinly  sliced  and  a  French  dressing 
poured  over  them  and  served  at  once.  Cucumbers  that  are 
soaked  in  salt  water  or  that  are  allowed  to  remain  in  the 
dressing  for  some  considerable  time  become  tough  and 
indigestible. 

SLICED  TOMATOES 

40  pounds  of  tomatoes.  Wash  and  remove  the  skin,  cut 
in  slices  ^  inch  thick  and  serve  with  a  French  dressing. 

LETTUCE 

25  pounds  of  lettuce.  Should  be  served  as  fresh  as  pos- 
sible, the  leaves  should  be  pulled  apart  and  allowed  to  soak 
in  cold  water,  and  then  well  washed  and  looked  over,  broken 
in  small  pieces  and  5  minutes  before  serving,  a  French 
dressing  poured  over  it.  In  no  instance  should  lettuce  be 
washed  in  salted  water  or  the  dressing  added  any  length  of 
time  before  serving. 

COFFEE 

3  lbs.  coffee  10  gals,  water 

Place  the  coffee  in  a  muslin  bag  large  enough  to  contain 
3  times  the  amount.  Tie  the  mouth  of  the  bag  as  near  the 
end  as  possible,  this  gives  the  coffee  plenty  of  room  to  ex- 
pand. Place  the  coffee  in  cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  a 
boil.  Keep  boiling  for  20  minutes,  then  turn  off  the  steam, 
add  a  little  cold  water  and  keep  covered  tightly. 

Digitized  by  VjLXjy  It: 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  111 

TEA 

1  lb.  tea  10  gals,  water 

Bring  the  water  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  tea,  which  ha« 
previously  been  placed  in  a  large  muslin  bag.  Tea  should 
never  be  allowed  to  boil,  only  steamed  for  about  15  or  2^ 
minutes. 

COCOA 

2  lbs.  cocoa  4^  lbs.  sugar 

i  lb.  cornstarch  4^  lbs.  milk 

Place  9  gallons  of  water  in  a  copper  and  bring  to  boil, 
mix  the  cocoa,  sugar  and  cornstarch  with  J  gallon  of  cold 
water,  add  the  boiling  water  and  cook  for  IQ  minutes,  tur« 
off  the  steam  just  before  serving,  add  the  milk;  mix  with 
the  remainder  of  cold  water. 

FRENCH   DRESSING  FOR  SALAD 

4  pts.  salad  oil  1  oz.  dry  mustard 

5  pts.  vinegar  Dash'  of  Worcestershire 
J  lb.  pepper  sauce 

Mix  well  together,  then  add  gradually  the  oil  and  vinegar, 
beating  and  stirring  continuously.  This  dressing  should  be 
used  as  soon  as  made  as  it  will  separate  in  about  20  minutes. 

MAYONNAISE   DRESSING 

1  doz.  eggs  4  oz.  salt 
J  oz.  pepper  1  gal.  oil 

i  oz.  paprika  1  pt.  vinegar  or  lemon 

2  oz.  mustard  juice 

Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites,  place  yolks  in  mixing 
bowl,  add  mustard,  pepper  and  paprika,  after  being  well 


72  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

mixed  add  oil,  stirring  continuously  while  adding  the  oil, 
add  vinegar  and  salt.  When  all  ingredients  have  been  used, 
whip  the  whites  of  eggs  until  they  become  stiff,  then  stir 
it  with  the  mayonnaise.  All  ingredients  should  be  ice  cold 
before  mixing  and  not  placed  on  any  article  until  ready 
to  serve. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  73 


BREAD  AND  PASTRY 

FLOUR 

Flour  should  be  stored  at  a  temperature  ranging  from 
65  degrees  to  75  degrees  Fahrenheit.  It  should  be  neither 
too  cold  nor  to  warm.  It  is  best  to  place  it  in  bakeshop  a 
few  days  before  using. 

WATER 

The  temperature  at  which  a  dough  is  to  be  made,  as  well 
as  the  amount  of  yeast  used,  depends  a  great  deal. upon  the 
quality  of  water — hard  water  requiring  more  yeast  than 
soft  water.  In  normal  conditions  the  temperature  of  the 
dough  should  be  84  degrees  Fahrenheit. 

SALT 

Salt  retards  fermentation,  and  the  lightness  of  the  loaf 
depends  upon  the  amount  of  salt  used.  8  to  10  ounces 
of  salt  is  the  proper  amount  for  a  10-quart  pail  of  water. 
The  amount  used  depends  upon  other  ingredients,  such  as 
sugar,  lard,  oil,  etc.,  added  to  the  dough. 

A  good  quantity  of  salt  and  yeast  will  make  a  better  loaf 
and  flavor  than  where  less  salt  is  used;  it  is  well  to  use  a 
little  more  salt  in  hot  weather  to  prevent  a  possibility  of 
sour  bread. 

FLAVOR 

A  cool  dough  with  plenty  of  salt  and  yeast  will  make  a 
highly  flavored  loaf  of  bread.     The  lack  of  flavor  to  the 

Digitized  by  VjUijy  It: 


74  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

bread  is  usually  caused  by  letting  the  dough  get  too  old 
or  setting  it  too  warm,  as  well  as  not  using  enough  salt. 

KEEPING  OF  YEAST 

Immediately  upon  receiving  yeast  it  should  be  stored  im 
a  cool,  dry  place,  but  should  be  kept  from  freezing. 

YIELD 

100  pounds  of  flour  will  absorb  from  25  to  32  quarts  of 
water,  depending  upon  the  quality  of  flour  used.  The  yield 
of  bread  to  the  100  pounds  of  flour  averages  approximately 
from  140  to  150  one-pound  loaves. 

TEMPERATURE 

The  temperature  of  the  dough  should  be  regulated  ac- 
cording to  the  temperature  of  the  bakeshop,  ranging  from 
74  degrees  to  84  degrees  Fahrenheit.  If  the  flour  is  cool, 
the  water  should  be  a  little  warmer  than  usual,  but  if  the 
flour  is  warm  the  water  should  be  cool  in  proportion. 

BREAD  DOUGH    (SPONGE  SYSTEM) 

70  lbs.  14  oz.  flour  '  1  lb.  lard 

1  lb.  sugar  10  oz.  yeast 

1  lb.  salt  19  qts.  water 

Set  sponge,  using  all  of  the  yeast,  one-half  of  the  water 
(lukewarm)  and  about  three-sevenths  of  the  flour,  after 
this  is  well  mixed  set  aside  and  dust  well  with  flour,  allow 
to  rise  until  it  has  been  up  and  dropped  back  1  inch  from 
the  top,  time  3  to  3^  hours,  the  sponge  is  then  ready  for 
douerhinff.     Add  the  remaining  water,  which  should  be 

°  Digitized  by  VjUUy  It: 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  75 

regulated  to  temperature,  that  is,  it  should  not  be  as  warm 
as  used  for  sponge,  next  add  salt,  sugar  and  lard,  all  this 
should  be  well  mixed  and  sponge  well  broken  up  before 
adding  remainder  of  flour,  then  add  remaining  flour  and 
mix  the  whole  thoroughly ;  after  mixing  allow  to  rise  until 
it  will  recede  to  the  touch  of  the  hand,  time  about  IJ  hours ; 
lay  over  and  let  rise  for  about  30  to  45  minutes  more ;  it  is 
then  ready  to  be  scaled  into  loaves. 

NEW  FLOUR 

When  using  a  new  grade  of  flour  always  make  it  a  point 
as  to  the  amount  of  water  a  hundred  pounds  will  absorb  so 
as  to  regulate  the  stiffness  of  your  dough. 

In  cold  weather  always  store  flour  for  immediate  use  in  a 
warm  place. 

Sponges  and  doughs  should  always  be  well  mixed,  as  a 
poorly  mixed  dough  never  gives  good  results. 

Use  as  little  flour  as  possible  in  forming  loaves. 

Always  weigh  all  ingredients  carefully,  especially  the  salt. 

Never  dissolve  yeast  in  water  more  than  lukewarm,  as 
hot  water  will  kill  the  yeast. 

Always  be  careful  not  to  let  bread  proof  too  much,  as  an 
overproof  loaf  will  show  a  coarse  grain. 

If  you  have  not  developed  the  touch  of  the  dough,  a  good 
way  is  to  put  it  in  the  oven  when  it  becomes  proofed  to 
twice  its  original  size. 

The  proper  heat  for  baking  is  400  degrees  Fahrenheit, 
this  heat  is  used  for  most  all  bread  baking;  time  about 
46  minutes. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


76  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

WHITE  BREAD  (STRAIGHT  DOUGH  SYSTEM) 
NAVY  CIVILIAN 

76  lbs.  2  oz.  flour  72  lbs.  12  oz.  flour 

1  lb.  sugar  1  lb.  sugar 

1  lb.  salt  1  lb.  salt 

10  oz.  lard  1  lb.  lard 

12  oz.  yeast  12  oz.  yeast 

17  qts.  water  18  qts.  water 

For  about  100  one-pound  loaves,  scale  at  18  ounces.  Dis- 
solve the  salt  and  yeast  separately  in  part  of  the  water, 
then  add  to  remainder  of  water,  next  add  sugar  and  lard, 
lard  should  always  be  previously  melted,  last  add  the  flour, 
mix  thoroughly  and  allow  to  rise — for  the  first  time,  3  to 
3^  hours;  second  time,  1  to  IJ  hours; -third  time,  f  to  1 
hour.  The  above  periods  of  time  are  to  be  according  to  the 
warmth  of  dough  and  bakeshop,  also  to  the  amount  of  yeast 
used.  It  is  then  ready  to  scale  and  form  into  loaves. 
Total  time  for  dough,  4f  to  6  hours. 

HOMEMADE   BREAD 

68  lbs.  15  oz.  flour  1  lb.  15  oz.  lard 

1  lb.  15  oz.  sugar  10  oz.  yeast 

1  lb.  1  oz.  salt  19  qts.  water 

For  about  100  one-pound  loaves,  scale  at  18  ounces.  Fol- 
low straight  dough  method,  excepting  the  dough  should  be 
allowed  to  rest  ^  hour  longer  before  scaling  off. 

VIENNA  OR  HARD  CRUST  ROLLS 

68  lbs.  4  oz.  flour  1  lb.  4  oz.  lard 

1  lb.  4  oz.  sugar  10  oz.  yeast 

1  lb.  2  oz.  salt  20^jte.^  jr^Ig 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  77 

For  about  100  one-pound  loaves,  or  100  dozen  rolls,  scale 
bread  at  18  ounces,  also  scale  each  dozen  rolls  at  18  ounces. 
Set  either  sponge  or  straight  dough.  After  dough  is  ready, 
scale  into  pieces  and  round  them  up.  Let  rise  for  about 
15  to  20  minutes,  then  round  them  over  again,  lest  rest 
again  for  about  15  minutes,  after  which  shape  into  Vienna 
loaves,  lay  the  loaves  smooth  side  down  on  a  cloth-covered 
board,  pull  the  cloth  up  enough  between  each  loaf  to  prevent 
them  from  sticking  together.  Allow  to  rest  until  double  in 
size,  then  bake  in  medium  hot  oven.  Before  putting  in 
oven  (top  down)  wash  with  a  little  milk,  also  put  3  or  4 
slanting  cuts  on  top  of  loaf,  for  this  operation  always  use 
a  sharp  knife.  If  part  milk  is  used,  deduct  3  ounces  of 
sugar  and  2  ounces  of  lard  for  each  quart  of  milk  used  in 
place  of  water.  If  there  is  not  a  brick  hearth  in  your  oven, 
turn  a  sheet  pan  upside  down,  wipe  clean  and  dust  lightly 
with  flour,  lay  bread  or  rolls  on  this  and  bake. 

RYE   BREAD 

47  lbs.  2  oz.  wheat  flour  1  lb.  6  oz.  salt 

23  lbs.  5  oz.  rye  flour  20  qts.  water 

10  oz.  yeast 

For  about  100  one-pound  loaves,  scale  at  18  ounces. 
Sponge  system,  using  all  of  the  yeast  and  one-half  of  tlie 
water,  lukewarm,  and  about  three-sevenths  of  the  flour 
mixed.  After  sponge  is  mixed  allow  to  rest  until  it  recedes, 
time  about  3  hours.  When  sponge  is  ready,  dissolve  the  salt 
in  remainder  of  water,  which  should  be  regulated  to  tem- 
perature, add  this  water  to  sponge,  mix  and  last  add  the 
remaining  flour.    Mix  dough  smooth,  and  allow  to  rise  for 

Digitized  by  VjLXjy  It: 


78  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

about  1^  hours,  or  when  it  will  recede  to  the  touch  of  the 
hand.  Punch  down  and  fold  insides  and  ends,  dust  lightly, 
allow  to  rest  for  about  15  or  20  minutes  more,  then  scale 
off  and  round  them  into  loaves,  allow  them  to  spring  for 
about  15  minutes,  then  shape  into  loaves,  proceed  then  the 
same  as  Vienna  bread,  only  in  place  of  washing  it  with  milk 
before  baking  use  water,  also  wash  with  water  immediately 
after  it  is  baked.  This  bread  can  stand  a  hotter  over  than 
other  bread. 

RYE   BREAD   (STRAIGHT  DOUGH  SYSTEM) 

Mix  all  ingredients  together,  dissolving  the  salt  and 
yeast  separately  in  part  of  the  water,  add  all  together  and 
proceed  to  mix ;  after  dough  is  mixed  smooth  allow  to  rise 
for  about  3  hours  or  until  it  will  recede  to  the  touch  of  the 
hand,  punch  and  lay  over  and  allow  to  get  full  proof  again 
which  will  require  about  1  hour  and  15  minutes,  it  is  then 
ready  to  scale  into  loaves,  proceed  the  same  as  for  sponge 
system. 

GRAHAM   BREAD 

For  about  100  one-pound  loaves,  scale  at  18  ounces. 
Same  as  white  bread,  but  add  one-quarter  to  one-third 
graham  flour,  it  is  well  to  add  i  pint  of  molasses  to  each 
10  quarts  of  water  used  in  making  the  dough. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD 

For  about  100  one-pound  loaves,  scale  at  18  ounces. 
Exactly  the  same  as  graham  bread,  only  substitute  entire 
wheat  flour  for  graham  flour;  as  much  as  one-half  entire 
wheat  flour  can  be  used  with  the  other  half  wheat  flour. 

Digitized  by  Vj U<jy  1 1: 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  75 

RAISIN   BREAD 

68  lbs.  flour  14  oz.  yeast 

3  lbs.  sugar  2  oz.  cinnamon 

11  oz.  salt  9  lbs.  2  oz.  raisins 

1  lb.  13  oz.  lard  16  qts.  water 

For  about  100  one-pound  loaves,  scale  at  18  ounces.  Use 
straight  dough  system. 

CORN   BREAD 

2  lbs.  sugar  2  oz.  salt 
14  oz.  lard  5  lbs.  flour 

i  doz.  eggs  2  lbs.  cornmeal 

2f  qts.  milk  5  oz.  baking  powder 

For  100  men,  at  the  rate  of  about  2J  ounces  per  man. 
Weight  of  batch  before  baking  16^  pounds,  allowing  about 
1^  pounds  for  baking  off.  The  above  will  make  two  navy 
bread  pans,  scale  each  pan  at  8  pounds  1  ounce.  Cut  50 
portions  from  each. 

ROLLS   (NAVY) 

16  lbs.  6  oz.  flour  10  oz.  lard 

1  lb.  3  oz.  sugar  4  oz.  yeast 

3  oz.  "salt  4J  qts.  water 

For  100  men,  2  rolls  to  a  man,  each  roll  weighing  about 
2  ounces  when  baked.  Scale  in  5-pound  1-ounce  pieces  and 
cut  36  rolls  from  each.  In  making  dough  follow  instruc- 
tions given  under  white  bread  recipe. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


80  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

ROLLS  (CIVILIAN) 

16  lbs.  1  oz.  flour  1  lb.  3  oz.  lard 

1  lb.  3  oz.  sugar  4  oz.  yeast 

3  oz.  salt  4f  qts.  water 

If  milk  is  used  deduct  3  ounces  of  sugar  and  2  ounces  of 
lard  for  each  quart  in  place  of  water.  This  dough  may  be 
made  into  all  kinds  of  shapes  desired,  and  will  make  ap- 
proximately 25  dozen  roUs^  each  dozen  scaled  at  18  ounces. 
Follow  instruction  given  under  white  bread  recipe.  This 
batch  has  the  same  weight  as  rolls  (navy)  and  may  be  used 
in  place  if  desired.  The  proper  heat  for  baking  all  rolls 
and  sweet  doughs  is  from  340  degrees  to  360  degrees 
Fahrenheit. 

COFFEE  CAKE  (NAVY) 
6  lbs.  10  oz.  flour  9  oz.  lard 

1  lb.  sugar  2  oz.  yeast 

1  oz.  salt  If  qts.  water 

For  100  men  at  the  rate  of  about  1^  ounces  per  man, 
baked  with  streusel.  Scale  in  pieces  5J  pounds,  make  up  in 
long  shape,  let  set  for  about  20  minutes,  roll  out  into 
squares  the  size  of  pan.  Place  in  pan  and  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  prick  well  with  a  fork  to  remove  all  air 
spaces  in  the  dough,  then  sprinkle  with  the  following 
streusel.  This  will  make  2  pans  13  x  26  inches^  cut  60  por- 
tions from  each. 

STREUSEL  (FOR  THE  ABOVE  BATCH) 

7  oz.  flour  i  oz.  salt 

6  oz.  sugar  3^  oz.  butter  or 

i  oz.  cinnamon  Digit  zejgf^uuy  it: 


.  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  81 

Do  not  use  lard  if  butter  can  be  obtained.  If  butter  is 
used  do  not  use  salt  for  making  streusel.  Mix  flour,  sugar, 
salt  and  cinnamon  together,  last  add  lard  or  butter  and 
proceed  to  rub  together  the  same  as  pie  dough.  In  making 
dough  follow  instructions  given  under  white  bread  recipe. 

CINNAMON   BUNS 
6  lbs.  12  oz.  flour  9  oz.  lard 

1  lb.  sugar  2  oz.  yeast 

1  oz.  salt  2  qts.  water 

For  100  men,  1  to  the  man,  at  the  rate  of  about  If  ounces 
each  when  baked.  Scale  in  pieces  of  6J  pounds,  make  up 
in  long  shape,  let  set  for  aSout  20  minutes,  then  roll  into 
strips  about  J  inch  thick,  18  inches  wide,  and  any  length, 
brush  over  with  melted  butter  or  oil  and  sprinkle  with  a 
mixture  of  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Make  this  sheet  into  a 
roll,  commencing  on  the  outer  edge.  Cut  50  buns  from  each 
piece,  lay  them  on  well-greased  baking  pans  which  have  been 
sprinkled  with  sugar,  placing  them  about  J  inch  apart. 
Let  rise  until  double  in  size,  then  bake  in  oven  about  360 
degrees  Fahrenheit.  Turn  them  out  of  pan  immediately 
to  prevent  them  from  sticking.  In  making  dough  follow 
instructions  given  under  white  bread  recipe. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS 
10  lbs.  flour  1  lb.  lard 

1  lb.  12  oz.  sugar  4  oz.  yeast 

2  oz.  salt  2J  qts.  water 

For  100  men,  two  to  the  man,  at  the  rate  of  about  IJ 
ounces  each  before  frying.    Scale  in  pieces  of  9f  pounds, 

Digitized  by  VjOU^  ItT 


82  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  . 

roll  out  into  sheets  J  inch  thick,  18  inches  wide,  and  any 
length.  Cut  100  doughnuts  from  each  piece,  or  cut  like 
rolls  and  form  into  twists.  Another  way  is  to  cut  them  off 
like  rolls,  form  into  round  balls  and  let  set  for  about  15  to 
20  minutes,  after  which  they  are  flattened  down  with  the 
palm  of  the  hand,  and  with  the  finger  or  round  pointed 
stick  pierce  a  hole  through  the  center,  again  leaving  them 
rise  until  double  in  size.  Then  fry  in  hot  lard  or  cooking 
oil.  Doughnuts  are  always  placed  on  cloth-covered  or 
dusted  board  when  being  made  up  to  let  proof.  In  making 
dough  follow  instructions  given  under  white  bread. 

CINNAMON   CAKE 

For  100  men.  Use  coffee  cake  recipe,  but  in  place  of 
putting  streusel  on  top,  substitute  with  a  mixture  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  cinnamon. 

JELLY  DOUGHNUTS 

For  100  men.  Use  doughnut  recipe,  roll  up  into  balls, 
allow  to  rise  for  about  15  minutes,  then  flatten  them  a  little 
with  the  palm  of  the  hand,  place  a  little  fruit  jelly  or  jam 
in  the  center  and  pinch  the  edges  together  to  enclose  the 
fruit,  lay  them  on  flour-dusted  cloth,  smooth  side  up,  cover 
with  a  floured  cloth,  let  rise  until  nearly  double  in  size,  then 
fry  in  hot  lard  or  cooking  oil. 

SWEET  DOUGH    (CIVILIAN) 

5  lbs.  15  oz.  flour  14  oz.  sugar 

2  oz.  yeast  14  oz.  lard 

1  oz.  salt  If  qts.  water 

Enough  for  about  10  pounds  of  baked  goods.  The  above 
dough  can  be  used  for  the  following:    Coffee  cake,  cinna- 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  '83 

men  cake,  plain  buns,  cinnamon  buns,  doughnuts  and  cur- 
rant buns. 

PLAIN  CAKE    (NAVY) 

3  lbs.  6  oz.  granulated  3  oz.  baking  powder 

sugar  J  oz.  baking  soda 

1  lb.  11  oz.  lard  i  oz.  salt 

1  doz.  eggs  1/2G  oz.  lemon  flavor 

2i  qts.  milk  5  lbs.  5  oz.  flour 

For  100  men,  at  the  rate  of  about  2^  ounces  per  man. 
Weight  of  batch  before  baking  16:1  pounds,  allowing  about 
1^  pounds  for  baking  off,  or  1^  ounces  to  each  pound. 

For  citron  cake  add  1  pound  of  finely  sliced  citron: 

For  raisin  cake  substitute  rai'sins  for  citron,  use  either 
plain  or  spice  cake  mix. 

For  fruit  cake  add  1  pound  of  citron  and  1  pound  of 
raisins,  use  plain  or  spice  cake  mix. 

For  cocoanut  cake  use  plain  cake  mix,  sprinkle  on  tx)p  of 
cake  before  baking  4  ounces  of  cocoanut. 

Enough  for  two  navy  bread  pans.  Scale  each  pan  at 
8  pounds  1  ounce ;  cut  50  portions  from  each. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE   (PLAIN) 
3  lbs.  6  oz.  granulated        2  1/10  oz.  baking  soda 

sugar  i  oz.  vanilla 

1  lb.  11  oz.  lard  J  oz.  salt 

1  doz.  eggs  4  lbs.  11  oz.  flour 

2i  qts.  milk  10  oz.  cocoa 

For  100  men,  at  the  rate  of  about  2^  ounces  per  man. 
Weight  of  bath  before  baking  16^  pounds,  allowing  about 
1|  pounds  for  baking  off,  or  1^  ounces  to  each  pound. 

Digitized  by  VjOU*^  ItT 


84 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 


SPICE  CAKE   (NAVY) 


3  lbs.  6  oz.  granulated 

sugar 
1  lb.  11  oz.  lard 

1  doz.  eggs 
2i  qts.  milk 

2  1/10  oz.  baking  soda 


i  oz.  salt 

5  lbs.  3  oz.  flour 

1  oz.  cinnamon 

f  oz.  allspice 

i  oz.  cloves 


For  100  men,  at  the  rate  of  about  2^  ounces  per  man. 
Weight  of  batch  before  baking  16^  pounds,  allowing  i^bout 
li  pounds  for  baking  off,  or  1^  ounces  to  each  pound. 

MARBLE  CAKE   (NAVY) 


LIGHT   PART 

2J  lbs.  granulated 
sugar 

1  lb.  2  oz.  lard 
S  doz.  eggs 

li  qts.  milk 

2  oz.  baking  powder 
•J  oz.  baking  soda 

i  oz.  salt 

1/30  oz.  lemon  extract 

3  lbs.  9  oz.  flour 


DARK   PART 

1  lb.  2  oz.  granulated 

sugar 
9  oz.  lard 
i  doz.  eggs 
f  qt.  milk 
^  oz.  baking  soda. 
J  oz.  salt 

1/12  oz.  vanilla  powder 
3  oz.  cocoa 
1  lb.  9  oz.  flour 


For  100 .men,  at  the  rate  of  about  2^  ounces  per  man. 
Weight  of  batch  before  baking  16^  pounds,  allowing  about 
H  pounds  for  baking  off,  or  1^  ounces  to  each  pound. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  85 

JELLY  LAYER  CAKE  NO.  1 

4  lbs.  2  oz.  granulated        2  qts.  milk 

sugar  4  lbs.  3  oz.  flour 

5  oz.  lard  6  oz.  baking  powder 

f  doz.  eggs  1/20  oz.  lemon  extract 

For  100  men,  at  the  rate  of  2J  ounces  per  man.  Weight 
of  batch  before  baking  13J  pounds.  Will  make  4  layers, 
using  navy  bread  pan,  must  be  greased  with  cold  lard  and 
well  dusted  with  flour;  scale  each  layer  at  3  pounds  7  ounces, 
bake  in  hot  oven.  For  filling  cake  use  the  following: 
1  pound  14  ounces  of  jam  or  jelly,  8  ounces  of  cocoanut 
on  top. 

JELLY  LAYER  CAKE  NO.  2 

3  lbs.  10  oz.  granulated  3  oz.  baking  powder 

sugar  4  lbs.  10  oz.  flour 

1^  doz.  eggs  1/20  oz.  lemon  extract 
Hi  qts.  milk 

For  100  men;  same  weight  as  jelly  layer  cake  No.  1. 
Grease  and  line  pans  with  paper. 

JELLY  ROLL  NO.  1 

2  lbs.  13  oz.  granulated  4J  oz.  baking  powder 

sugar  4f  lbs.  flour 

1^  doz.  eggs  1/20  oz.  lemon  extract 
1^  qts.  milk 

For  100  men,  at  the  rate  of  about  2  J  ounces  per  man. 
Weight  of  batch  before  baking  12 J  pounds.    The  above  will 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


86  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

make  4  large  rolls;  bake  in  sheet  pans  and  scale  each  at 
3  pounds  i  ounce  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Use  jelly  or  jam, 
1  pound  to  each  roll. 

JELLY  ROLL  NO.  2 

2  lbs.  15  joz.  granulated  f  oz.  baking  soda 

sugar  1^  oz.  cream  tartar 

ly^^  doz.  eggs  1/20  oz.  lemon  extract 

1^  qts.  milk  4  lbs.  6  oz.  flour 

For  100  men;  same  weight  as  jelly  roll  No.  1.  Scale  the 
same  as  jelly  roll  No.  1  and  use  the  same  amount  of  jelly 
or  jam. 

LAYER  CAKE 

2  lbs.  14  oz.  sugar  4^  oz.  baking  powder 

1  lb.  7  oz.  butter  1/20  oz.  lemon  or  vanilla 
IJ  doz.  eggs  extract 

2yV  qts.  milk  i  oz.  nutmeg 

5  lbs.  8  oz.  flour 

For  100  men,  at  the  rate  of  about  2^  ounces  each.  Weight 
of  batch  before  baking  16  pounds  5  ounces.  This  batch  will 
make  40  small  single  layers,  scale  each  layer  at  6^  ounces. 
Make  20  two-layer  cakes  and  cut  5  portions  from  each. 

CHOCOLATE   ICING   NO.  1 

2  lbs.  11  oz.  granulated      5  oz.  cocoa 

sugar  4  oz.  butter 

1  pt.  milk  1/30  oz.  liquid  vanilla 

Will  make  enough  chocolate  icing  for  the  above  batch. 
In  making  boiled  icing,  boil  until  strings  are  visible  from 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.^S.  Navy  Cook  Book  87 

the  spoon  with  which  it  is  being  stirred,  then  remove  and 
beat  until  it  becomes  stiff,  add  about  1  good  gill  more  of 
milk  to  slacken ;  it  is  then'  ready  for  use. 

CHOCOLATE   ICING  NO.  2 

Use  the  same  ingredients  as  for  boiled  icing  No.  1 ;  have 
about  6  egg  whites  well  beaten  in  place  of  the  extra  gill  of 
milk,  use  when  icing  has  been  boiled  enough,  add  to  the 
whites  slowly,  keep  beating  continually  until  it  is  all  added. 

BROWN   BREAD   NO.  1 

1  lb.  burnt  sugar  2  oz.  salt 

1  lb.  granulated  4^  lbs.  flour 

sugar  H  lbs.  whole  wheat  flour 

14  oz.  lard  1:^  lbs.  cornmeal 

i  doz.  eggs  2  oz.  yeast 

2f  qts.  milk  i  oz.  baking  soda 

For  100  men,  at  the  rate  of  about  2 J  ounces  per  man. 
The  above  will  make  2  navy  bread  pans,  scale  each  pan  at 
8  pounds  2  ounces,  cut  50  portions  from  each ;  if  1  pint  of 
molasses  is  used  in  place  of  burnt  sugar,  deduct  |  pint  of 
milk.  This  should  be  let  set  to  rise  for  about  1^  hours  after 
dropping  out  into  pans  bake  in  hot  oven. 

BROWN   BREAD   NO.  2 

4  lbs.  3  oz.  cornmeal  2  oz;  salt 

4  lbs.  3  oz.  rye  meal  1  qt.  molasses 

3  oz.  baking  powder  2J  qts.  milk 

For  100  men,  at  the  rate  of  about  2^  ounces  per  man. 
Weight  of  batch  16 J  pounds.     Mix  dry  ingredients  well, 

Digitized  by  VjOUy  It: 


88  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

add  molasses  and  milk,  beat  thoroughly  and  put  in  greased 
molds.  Steam  for  3^  hours^  after  which  bake  in  oven  long 
enough  to  dry  out. 

PLUM   DUFF  (BAKED) 

4  lbs.  sugar  1  qt.  water 

2i  lbs.  butter  or  lard  6  lbs.  dried  fruit 

1  oz.  baking  soda    -  11^  lbs.  flour 

1  doz.  eggs  Spices  and  salt  as 

2  qts.  molasses  required 

Mix  and  bake  in  well-greased  pans. 

PLUM   DUFF   (BOILED  OR  STEWED) 

The  same  ingredients,  substituting  3  pounds  of  finely 
chopped  suet  for  the  lard  or  butter,  place  in  bags  or  molds 
and  either  steam  or  boil  for  4  hours. 

PIE  DOUGH   NO.  1 

37  lbs.  flour  8  oz.  salt 

18  lbs.  8  oz.  lard  9^  qts.  water 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Total  weight  74^  pounds. 
Allow  about  11  f  ounces  of  dough  for  each  pie,  top  and 
bottom. 

PIE  DOUGH   NO.  2 

35  lbs.  12  oz.  flour  8  oz.  salt 

20i  lbs.  lard  8|  qts.  water 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Same  weight  as  above 
batch,  but  a  richer  dough.  For  mixing  pie  dough,  rub 
lard  well  with  flour,  then  add  water  with  the  salt  being  dis- 

Digitized  by  V_3 O^J^  I tT 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  89 

solved  in  it.  This  is  then  lifted  together.  Care  should  be 
taken  not  to  work  pie  dough  too  much  for  the  more  it  is 
worked  the  tougher  the  dough  will  be. 

PIE   D0U<3H,  FOR  BOTTOMS  ONLY,   NO.  1 

24  lbs.  10  oz.  flour  5  oz.  salt 

12  lbs.  5  oz.  lard  6J  qts.  water 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies. 

PIE  DOUGH,  FOR  BOTTOMS  ONLY,  NO,  2 

23  lbs.  14  oz.  flour  5  oz.  salt 

13  lbs.  11  oz.  lard  5J  qts.  water 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies. 

DRIED  PEACH   PIE 

40  lbs.  evaporated  34  qts.  water 

peaches  1  oz.  cinnamon 

18  lbs.  8  oz.  sugar  1  lb.  12  oz.  cornstarch 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Use  about  1^  pounds  of 
filling  for  each  pie.  In  preparing  peaches  for  pie,  soak 
first  for  about  12  hours  in  30  quarts  of  water,  then  place 
in  copper  or  on  range  and  let  simmer  until  tender,  add 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  stirring  this  in  well,  then  bring  to  a 
boiling  point  and  add  starch,  which  should  be  mixed  in  the 
remaining  4  quarts  of  water.  In  adding  starch  it  should 
be  poured  in  gradually,  at  the  same  time  stirring  so  as  to 
prevent  it  from  becoming  lumpy,  it  is  then  removed  from 
copper  or  range  and  ready  to  be  used  in  pie. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


90  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE 

25  lbs.  evaporated  41  qts.  water 

apples  2^  oz.  cinnamon 

18  lbs.  8  oz.  sugar  2  lbs.  cornstarch 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Use  about  1 J  pounds  of 
filling  for  each  pie.  Apples  are  prepared  the  same  as 
peaches — -soak  in  35  quarts  of  water,  using  the  remaining 
6  quarts  for  the  starch. 

MINCE  PIE   (NAVY   MINCE   MEAT) 
67  lbs.  12  oz.  mince-mear  25  qts.  water 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Use  about  1  pound  3 
ounces  of  filling  for  each  pie.  Soak  the  mince  meat  in  water 
for  about  12  hours,  it  is  then  ready  for  use. 

TINNED  APPLE  PIE 

125  lbs.  apples  2^  oz.  cinnamon 

18  lbs.  12  oz.  sugar 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Use  about  1^  pounds  in 
each  pie.  One-quarter  of  the  juice  may  be  saved.  Boil  and 
use  3  ounces  of  cornstarch  to  each  quart. 

TINNED  PEACH   PIE 

125  lbs.  peaches  6J  lbs.  sugar 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Save  all  of  juice,  boil, 
using  3  ounces  of  cornstarch  to  each  quart. 

TINNED  APRICOT  PIE 

Same  as  for  peach. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  91 

PUMPKIN  PIE  NO.  1   (NAVY) 

96  lbs.  tinned  pumpkin  2  lbs.  12  oz.  cornstarch 

8^  doz.  eggs  16  lbs.  sugar 

2^  qts.  molasses  4  oz.  cinnamon 

12  lbs.  evaporated  milk  6  qts.  water 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Beat  up  eggs  and  sugar 
enough  to  dissolve  sugar,  add  to  pumpkin,  then  add 
molasses  and  cinnamon,  last  add  cornstarch  which  has 
been  mixed  with  the  6  quarts  of  water,  mi?  all  well  together, 
it  is  then  ready  to  put  into  pie  shelves.  Use  1^  pounds  of 
filling  for  each  pie. 

PUMPKIN  PIE  NO.  2 

56  lbs.  10  oz.  pumpkin  2J  lbs.  cornstarch 

23  lbs.  sugar  4  oz.  cinnamon 

7  doz.  eggs  2  qts.  molasses 

283«V  qts.  milk 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Mix  same  as  pumpkin 
pie  No.  1,  but  place  shelves  in  oven  first,  then  pour  in 
filling. 

CUSTARD  PIE   (PLAIN) 

15  lbs.  sugar  3^  lbs.  cornstarch 

55f  qts.  milk  ^  oz.  lemon  or  vanilla  extract 

ISi  doz.  eggs  i  oz.  nutmeg  or  mace 

Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.  Beat  sugar  and  eggs  until 
sugar  becomes  dissolved,  add  milk,  saving  enough  to  dis- 
solve the  starch,  last  add  flavoring  and  starch;  it  is  then 
ready  to  our  into  pie  shelves.  Bake  in  oven  about  400  de- 
grees Fahrenheit.    Use  3  quarts  of  filling  in  each  pie. 

Digitized  by  VjOOy  l-tT 


92  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD  PIE 

10  lbs.  cocoanut  2§  oz.  salt 

13^  lbs.  sugar  14  oz.  nutmeg 

18§  doz.  eggs  S  oz.  lemou  or  vanilla 

6J  lbs.  spring  flour   I  extract 

61  qts.  milk 
Enough  for  100  ten-inch  pies.    Beat  sugar  and  eggs  until 
sugar  becomes  dissolved,  add  flour  and  beat,  then  add  milk 
and  other  ingredients;  it  is  then  ready  to  be  poured  into 
the  shelves.    Use  J  quart  of  fillipg  in  each. 

SHORTCAKE 

8  lbs.  5  oz.  flour  9/12  doz.  eggs 

1  lb.  2  oz.  sugar  If  qts.  milk 

2  lbs.  2  oz.  butter  7  oz.  baking  powder 

Enough  for  100  men,  2J  ounces  each.  If  lard  is  used  in 
place  of  butter,  use  i  ounce  of  salt.  This  dough  is  to  be 
baked  like  biscuits. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 

14  lbs.  11  oz.  flour  7  oz.  salt 

1  lb.  1  oz.  sugar  2  lbs.  12  oz.  lard 

10^  oz.  baking  powder  4§  qts.  milk 

Enough  for  100  men,  2  to  a  man.  Eoll  out  in  strips  about 
f  of  an  inch  thick  and  cut  200  biscuits  from  mix. 

A  biscuit  cutter  can  be  made  by  taking  a  milk  can  and 
melting  one  end  off  and  piercing  a  f ew*  holes  in  the  other. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  93 


PER  MAN   PER  MEAL  TABLE 

The  following  is  useful  as  a  guide  for  commissary  stew- 
ards in  making  up  requisitions  and  for  daily  issues  to  the 
galley  and  bakery : 

CRACKERS 

Oysters,  for  table 1/8  Ibt 

Breading   1/20  " 

Soda,  for  table 1/16  " 

BREAD,  FRESH 

Fresh,  for  table 1/3 

Pudding 1/6 

French  toast 1/4 

Plain  toast 1/4 

Dressing    1/6 

Breading   1/16 

Croutons    ' 1/8 

Hamburger  , 1/16 

FLOUR 

Bread,  for  table 1/4 

Cakes,  plain 1/10 

Pies   ; 1/10 

Rolls 1/4 

Biscuit,  baking  powder 1/6 

Hot  cakes  1/6 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


94  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

Thickening 1/30  lb. 

Dumplings 1/8  ^ 

Fritters   1/6  " 

Doughnuts -. 1/6  " 

Turnovers 1/10  " 

Crullers 1/8  ^  '' 

Coflfee  cake 1/4  ** 

Corn  bread  1/10  « 

Jelly  roll 1/15  '' 

Cookies 1/60  '' 

Oravy 1/50  ** 

Custard  pie 1/20  " 

Sea  pie   1/8  « 

Plum  duff 1/12  " 

Cottage  pudding 1/8  " 

Batter    1/20  « 

Yorkshire  pudding , 1/8  " 

Roux    1/20  " 

Buckwheat,  for  hot  cakes 1/8  ** 

Commeal,  for  mush 1/8  " 

Cornmeal,  for  com  bread ^ 1/16  " 

Cornmeal,  for  corn  cakes 1/16  " 

Cornmeal,  fried  1/8  " 

Cornmeal,  for  breading 1/40  " 

BACON,  TINNED 

Pried,  straight 1/3  '' 

With  liver 1/10  « 

For  chowder 1/50  '' 

Boiled    1/4  « 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  95 

Pried  with  eggs 1/7  lb. 

With  baked  fish 1/60  " 

For  beans  1/20  " 

Potato  salad 1/8  " 

CORNED  BEEF 

Por  hash , 1/8  " 

Cold,  sliced 1/6  " 

Mulligan   1/4  " 

Omelet 1/12  " 

Minced  meat 1/8  ^^ 

Sandwiches  ... . . .-. 1/12  '* 

CHIPPED  BEEF 

On  toast 1/10  '' 

CODFISH,  TINNED 

Creamed 1/6  " 

Hash    1/8  " 

Chowder    1/16  " 

Cakes   1/8  " 

Salad  i/16  " 

Cakes,  breaded 1/4  " 

SALMON 

Croquettes  •. .  1/8  '' 

Cold  1/3  " 

Salad 1/6  ** 

Hash   1/8  •* 

Baked 1/8  ^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


96  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

Loaf 1/4  lb. 

Escalloped 1/4  '' 

Creamed    1/4  *' 

SARDINES 

On  toast  1/4  " 

Salad 1/8  " 

VIENNA  SAUSAGE 

Chopped 1/3  " 

Plain   1/3  " 

Fried 1/3  " 

Sandwiches 1/16  ^' 

LUNCHEON   MEAT 

Fried   1/4  " 

Cold   1/5  " 

Fried  with  eggs 1/8  " 

Omelet  1/16  " 

Sandwiches   1/8  " 

CORNED   BEEF,  FRESH 

Boiled    4/5  " 

Hash    1/4  '' 

Cold  3/4  " 

Meat  cakes   1/4  " 

SALT  PORK 

For  beans  1/25  " 

Lean,  boiled  1/2  " 

Chowder   1/50  " 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  97 

SALT  MACKEREL 

Broiled    1/2  lb. 

Boiled    1/2  *^ 

Fried   1/2  « 

BACON,  SMOKED 

Boiled    1/3  " 

Fried,  straight 1/4  ^' 

Fried  with  eggs 1/8  " 

HAM,  SUGAR-CURED 

Boiled   3/5  " 

Fried   ' 3/4  " 

Baked 3/5  « 

Omelet 1/15  " 

SHOULDER,  SUGAR-CURED 

Boiled    2/3  " 

FRANKFURTERS 

Steamed 1/3  " 

Chopped    1/3  '' 

Griddled    1/3  '' 

BOLOGNA 

Fried   1/2  « 

Cold  1/7  " 

Omelet  1/16  " 

Hash   ;... 1/8  « 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


98  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

TONGUE,  SMOKED 

Cold  1/4  ft. 

Boiled 1/4  " 

BEEF,  FRESH 

Minced    1/3  '' 

Boiled    3/4  " 

Chili    1/8  " 

Chop  suey 2/5  '' 

Pot  roast 2/3  " 

A  la  mode 3/4  " 

Steak   : 3/4  '' 

Stew    1/3  " 

Croquettes  1/3  " 

Gk)ulash  1/3  " 

Pot  pie 1/3  " 

Hamburger 1/3  " 

Curry 1/2  " 

Breaded  strips   1/2  " 

Loaf  1/3  " 

Boast  3/6  " 

Eailroad  hash - 1/3  " 

Braised    2/3  " 

Hash    1/4  " 

Creamed  on  toast 1/3  " 

Cold  roast 1/2  '' 

MUTTON,  FRESH 

Boast 2/3  '' 

Stew 1/2  '' 

Chops 3/4  " 

Digitized  by  VjOU^  HC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  99 

Fricassee 1/2  lb. 

Boiled 3/5  " 

Sea  pie 1/3  " 

Curry  1/4  " 

PORK   LOINS 

Roast 3/4  " 

Chops,  plain ' 3/5  "* 

Chop  suey 1/3  " 

Pork  pie 1/3  '' 

Boiled    3/5  " 

Chops,  breaded 1/2  " 

PORK  SAUSAGE 

Fried   1/2  " 

Boiled    2/5'  '' 

Cakes 1/2  " 

VEAL,  FRESH 

Roast  2/3  " 

Stew 3/8  " 

Cutlets,  breaded 3/4  " 

Fricassee  1/2  " 

Loaf  1/3  " 

Croquettes  1/3  " 

Salad 1/3  " 

LIVER 

Fried  3/8  « 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


100  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

HAMBURGER 

Loaf 1/4  lb. 

Cakes  1/4  " 

Minced  meat 1/6  " 

Stuffed  peppers 1/6  *' 

CHICKEN   OR   FOWL 

•Roast  4/5  " 

Fried   3/4  " 

Fricassee   3/4  " 

Salad  with  potato 1/2  " 

Salad  with  celery 1/2  " 

Stew 2/5 

Croquettes   3/5  " 

Chop  suey 2/5  " 

TURKEY 

Eoast 3/4       " 

Salad   1/3       *• 

FISH,  FRESH 

Fried   2/3 

Baked 2/3 

Cakes   1/8 

Chowder    1/16     " 

EGGS,  FRESH 

Fried   1/6  doz. 

Boiled    1/6  " 

Scrambled 1/6  " 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  101 

Hot  cakes .-.. : : . : ., .  i/lwAoz. 

Mayonnaise  dressing .;.  .,...* a- 1/1^^9  "*  . 

Batter  ;..v..>.;.r.  inm:'^/: : 

Plain  omelet ! .  1/G   ^   "' 

Dumplings    1/200  " 

Ham  omelet 1/8       " 

Cakes   1/50     " 

French  toast 1/100  " 

Cookies    1/150  '' 

Pumpkin  pie 1/60     " 

Custard  pie 1/30     '' 

Corn  bread  1/75     '' 

Hamburger 1/100  '^ 

Puddings  1/100  '" 

Fritters    1/120  " 

Croquettes   1/100  '' 

BEANS,   NAVY 

Baked 1/29    gaL 

Soup 1/80     " 

Boiled    1/25     " 

BEANS,   LIMA 

Baked    1/35     " 

Boiled    1/50     " 

BEANS,  KIDNEY 

Chili 1/60     " 

Boiled    r 1/30     " 

Baked   .: 1/29     " 

Digitized  by  VjOU>y  ItT 


102  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

•:•  .-      \:                 ;      PEAS,  SPLIT 
l^oup . ..  ^.  « * ' '' 1/80    gal. 


ASPARAGUS,  TINNED 

On  toast 1/4  lb. 

Creamed    1/4  '' 

LIMA  BEANS,  TINNED 

Boiled    1/4  *^ 

Salad  1/8  '' 

Succotash    1/8  '' 

STRING  BEANS,  TINNED 

Pickled    1/3  " 

Boiled    1/4  '' 

Salad 1/8  " 

CORN,  TINNED 

Stewed  1/3  '' 

Pudding    1/4  " 

Fritters   1/16  '' 

Chowder    1/16  " 

Succotash 1/8  '' 

PEAS,  TINNED 

Creamed    1/4  " 

Soup    1/6  '' 

With  carrots 1/8  '' 

SPINACH,  TINNED 

Boiled    1/3  *^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  103 

T0MAT0E8,  TINNED 

Stewed 1/4  lb. 

Soup    1/8  " 

Soups  1/40  " 

Beans  1/20  '' 

Gravy 1/45  " 

Pot  roast 1/40  '' 

Stew 1/20  " 

Sauce   1/10  " 

Chop  suey 1/20  " 

Spanish  rice 1/8  '' 

Macaroni   1/8  ^^ 

Cold    1/4  « 

Chili  con  carni 1/20  '^ 

PUMPKIN,  TINNED 

For  pies 1/5  " 

Mashed    1/4  ''' 

BEETS,  TINNED 

Pickled    1/6  '' 

Salad 1/20  '' 

TURNIPS,  FRESH 

Mashed    2/5  « 

For  stew  1/20  " 

Mashed  with  potatoes 1/4  *^ 

Boiled    1/3  '' 

New  England  dinner 1/5  ^' 

Pot  roast 1/20  '' 

Vegetable  soup 1/50  *^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


104  U.  S.  i\AVY  Cook  Book 

CARROTS,   FRESH 

Creamed    1/4  lb. 

Stew 1/20  " 

Pot  roast 1/20  " 

With  peas   1/8  **' 

For  soups  1/50  " 

TOMATOES,  FRESH 

Sliced    1/3  " 

Salad .    1/6  " 

BEETS,   FRESH 

Pickled 1/4  '' 

Salad 1/10  " 

ONIONS,  GREEN,   FRESH 

Plain 1/5  " 

Salad   1/20  " 

SQ'JASH,   FRESH 

Creamed 1/2  " 

Stewed  2/3  '' 

Por  pies 1/2  " 

Eaked   3/5  '^ 

PUMPKIN,  FRESH 

Creamed    1/2  '^ 

Stewed  2/3 

Por  pie   1/2  '' 

Baked    3/5  '* 

Digitized  by  CjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navv  Cook  Book  105 

STRING   BEANS,  FRESH 

Boiled    2/3      lb. 

Salad 2/5       '' 

PEAS   IN   POD 

Creamed    3/5       " 

Stewed  3/4       '' 

CORN  ON   COB 
Plain   3/4       " 

SPINACH,  FRESH 
Boiled 4/5       " 

CAULIFLOWER 

Creamed    4/5       " 

Au  gratin   4/5       " 

LETTUCE 

Sugared   1/5       '' 

With  salad   1/15     " 

CUCUMBERS 

For  salad   1/7       '' 

Plain 2/5       " 

CELERY 

Chop  sney 1/15  ^' 

Plain 1/4  '' 

For  salad 1/8  '' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


106  XT.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

For  soup 1/30    lb. 

'      Creamed    ..., 1/3       " 

RADISHES 

Plain 1/6       " 

Salad 1/20     " 

RHUBARB,  FRESH 

For  pie 5/4       '' 

Sauce  V4       '' 

PARSNIPS,  FRESH 

Fried 1/2 

Creamed    1/3       '' 

Baked 1/2       '' 

EGGPLANT 

Fried 1/5       " 

Baked,  stuffed 1/3       '' 

PEPPERS,  RED  AND  GREEN 

Chili ; 1/20     " 

Stuffed 1/6       " 

Spanish  sauce 1/50     *' 

Chop  suey 1/100  " 

Salad  1/20     " 

Seasoning  agent 1/100  " 

ASPARAGUS,  FRESH 

Creamed 1/3       '' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  107 

PARSLEY 
For  garnishing 1/100  lb. 

POTATOES,  IRISH 

Mashed    3/5  '' 

Boiled,  peeled 1/2  '' 

With  the  jackets 2/5  " 

German  fried 3/4  " 

French  fried 3/4  " 

Stew 1/2  " 

Salad   2/5  « 

Baked,  peeled 3/5  '' 

Lyonnaise   1/2  " 

Escalloped  1/2  '' 

Baked  with  jackets 1/2  '' 

Au  gratin ^ 3/5  ^' 

For  hash 3/5  '' 

Croquettes   1/2  " 

Hash  brown 2/3  " 

Creamed    1/2  " 

For  soup 3/20  '* 

Chowder 1/10  '' 

Potato  cakes 3/5  '* 

Fish  cakes 1/2  " 

Stuffed,  baked 2/3  '* 

Bailroad  hash 1/2  '' 

For  yeast 1/200  '' 

POTATOES,  SWEET 

Boiled 3/5  " 

Candied  4/5  '' 

Digitized  by  VjOU^  ItT 


108  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

Pie  1/5  lb. 

Fried   " 3/4  " 

Baked 3/4  '' 

ONIONS,  FRESH 

Fried  3/5  " 

Dressing    1/20  " 

Boiled    2/5  " 

Creamed    '. 2/5  " 

Chop  suey 1/5  " 

Soups 1/25  " 

Salad 1/15  " 

Hash 1/20  " 

Stew 1/20  " 

Hamburger 1/30  " 

Chowder 1/25  " 

Pot  roast 1/50  " 

Gravies    1/50  " 

Spanish  omelet 1/40  " 

Lyonnaise  potatoes    1/20  " 


CABBAGE,  FRESH 

Boiled    2/3 

Cold  slaw 1/3 

Hot  slaw 3/5 

Chop  suey  1/4 

Vegetable  soup 1/20 

Fried  cabbage 2/3 

Creamed    3/5 

New  England  style 1/2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  109 

RICE 

Steamed    1/8  lb. 

Croquettes  1/6  '' 

Pudding    1/10  '' 

Cakes  1/10  " 

Soup    1/50  '' 

As  cereal : 1/8  " 

Spanish  style 1/10  " 

CORNSTARCH 

Pudding 1/30     '^ 

Puddings 1/200  " 

Tomato  sauce 1/200  " 

BARLEY 
Soup 1/50     ''■ 

HOMINY  GRITS 

As  cereal 1/10     " 

Fried 1/8      '' 

ROLLED  OATS 
For  cereal 1/10     " 

TAPIOCA 

Plain  pudding 1/10     '' 

Fruit  pudding 1/15 

APPLES,  DRIED 

Sauce  1/10 

Pie 1/7 

Digitized  by  VjLXjy  It: 


cc 


110  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

Dumplings    1/8  lb. 

Pudding    1/20  « 

Apple  cake   1/20  « 

Plum  duff 1/50  « 

Turnovers   1/10  '' 

CITRON 

Fruit  cake   1/13  '' 

Plum  duff 1/13  " 

Plain  cake 1/50  " 

CURRANTS 

Pudding   1/100  " 

Pie  1/5  « 

Currant  cake 1/50  ^^ 

Plum  duff 1/20  '' 

Cinnamon  bims  1/75  " 

Fruit  cake 1/20  " 

COCOANUT 

Pie 1/10  '' 

Cake 1/50  '' 

Fruit  pudding   1/50 


€< 


PEACHES,  DRIED 

Pie  1/r  '' 

Turnovers  1/10  " 

Stewed 1/8  '' 

Cake    1/20  " 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


TJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  111 

RAISINS 

Pie   1/15  lb. 

Plain  cake 1/50  " 

Pniit  cake 1/40  " 

Bread  pudding 1/50  " 

Eaisin  cake 1/10  " 

Plum  duff 1/30  '" 

Bread  1/50  " 

APPLES,  TINNED 

Pie   1/6  " 

Apple  cake   1/5  " 

Sauce   1/7  " 

Puddings  1/12  '' 

Dumplings    1/5  " 

Plum  duff 1/30  " 

Turnovers   1/5  " 

Fruit  salad 1/25  '' 

Fritters   1/10  '' 

APRICOTS,  TINNED 

Plain 2/5  " 

Pie    1/3  " 

Turnovers   1/6  " 

Fruit  salad 1/30  '' 

Puddings 1/6  " 

Short  cake    1/12  " 

PEACHES,  TINNED 

Plain   1/2  " 

Pie y^  " 

Dfyitized  by  VjOOV  ItT 


112  U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

Turnovers   1/4  lb. 

Salad 1/7  '' 

Puddings  1/6   :  " 

Short  cake 1/12  " 

PEARS,  TINNED 

Plain   1/2  '' 

Pie   2/5  '' 

Turnovers 1/4  " 

PINEAPPLE,  TINNED 

Plain   2/5  '' 

Pudding 1/20  '' 

Pie   2/5  '' 

Cake 1/7  '' 

Salad  1/8  « 

PRUNES 

Plain  1/5  " 

Pie  1/4  " 

JAMS 

Plain   1/6  '' 

Turnovers  1/20  " 

Cake    1/20  « 

APPLE  BUTTER 

Plain   1/20  '* 


Digitized  by  VjOOQI 


e 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  113 

MINCE-MEAX, 

Pie  1/10   lb. 

Plum  duff 1/30     " 

Turnovers   1/20     " 

PEACHES,  FRESH 
Plain    1/3     " 

PEARS,  FRESH 
Plain   1/2       '' 

CHERRIES 

Plain    1/3       '' 

Pie 1/3       " 

GRAPES 
Plain 1/3       '' 

STRAWBERRIES 

Cake 1/4      " 

Plain   1/3       " 

BLACKBERRIES 

Plain   1/4       '' 

Pie  1/3       " 

BLUEBERRIES 

Plain   1/4      '' 

Pie  1/5       " 

Digitized  by  VjOU^  ItT 


114  XT.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book 

HUCKLEBERRIES 

Plain   1/4      lb. 

Pie  1/5       '' 

RASPBERRIES 

Plain   1/3       ^ 

Pie  1/5       " 

CRANBERRIES 

Sauce  1/7  " 

Pie   1/5  " 

Turnovers   1/6  ^* 

WATERMELON 
Plain    5/4       " 

CANTELOUPE 
Plain 3/4       '' 

PLUMS 
Plain 1/3       '' 

GRAPE  FRUIT 

Plain  2/3       '' 

PINEAPPLE,  FRESH 

Plain   1/2       « 

For  fritters 1/2       " 

APPLES,  FRESH 
Plain   1/3       " 

Pie    wz^ctb^G.QQgt  1/4       ^' 


U.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  115 

Salad 1/15    lb. 

Sauce  1/3      " 

Dumplings 1/3       " 

Baked 1/3      " 

Apple  cake 1/100  " 

Fritters   1/10     " 

BANANAS 

Plain   1/3       " 

Cake 1/8      " 

Salad 1/16     '' 

Pie  1/16     '' 

LEMONS 

For  iced  tea 1/70     " 

Lemonade   1/13     " 

Pie   1/20     " 

ORANGES 

Plain   3/7       '' 

Fruit  salad 1/16     " 

COFFEE 

Plain    1/30     '' 

COCOA 

Plain   ...•; 1/25     " 

Pudding 1/200  " 

Pie   1/75     " 

Chocolate  cake 1/100  " 

Layer  cake 1/150  *^ 

Digitized  by  VjLXjyiC 


TEA 

Plain 1/100  lb. 

Iced  tea 1/150  " 

MILK,   EVAPORATED 

Coffee 1/150  " 

Pudding    1/100  " 

Cocoa  1/50     " 

Cake 1/50     " 

Soup    1/80     " 

Ice  cream 1/4       " 

Cereals  1/10     " 

Oyster  stew 1/8       " 

Custard  pie 1/5       " 

Mashed  potatoes 1/100  " 

Minced  meat  .. . : 1/75     '' 

Pumpkin  pie 1/9       " 

Cream  pie 1/5       *' 

Creamed  vegetables  1/100  " 

Baking  powder  biscuits 1/75     " 

Hot  cakes  1/65     " 

Cream  sauce 1/100  " 

Chicken  fricassee 1/50     " 

MILK,   FRESH 

For  cereals  1/16    gal. 

For  oyster  stew 1/35 


« 


CATSUP 
Plain 1/100    " 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


U.    O.    r^AVl     ^UUA    JJ\J\J£L  **. 

BUTTER 

For  cake 1/75    lb. 

CHEESE 

Table  1/8      '' 

Macaroni   , .  1/75     " 

An  gratin 1/75     " 

BAKING  POWDER 

Cake 1/300  " 

Biscuits 1/160  " 

Hot  cakes  1/80     " 

Corn  bread  1/100  " 

Dumpling?    1/160  '' 

MACARONI 

Baked  ..  .*. 1/8      '' 

VERMICELLI 

For  soup 1/50     " 

PICKLES 

Plain   1/5       " 

SAUERKRAUT 

Plain   1/4       " 

SUGAR 

Pie 1/20     " 

Cake 1/15     " 

Bread  1/300  " 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


110  U.    O.    INAVY    \JOOh.    DUOK 

Coffee    1/25  lb. 

Tea 1/30  " 

Puddings 1/25  '' 

Cranberry  sauce 1/7  *^ 

Cereals    1/10  '' 

Cocoa   1/25  " 

OYSTERS 

Dressing    1/100  " 

Stew 1/20  " 

CLAMS 

For  chowder 1/25  " 

BUTTER 

For  table 1/32  '' 

For  cake  1/75  " 

LARD 

Deep  fry 1/10  " 

Pie  dough 3/8  " 

Biscuits,  baking  powder 1/32  " 

Cake 1/40  " 

Bread  1/300  " 

KoUs    1/300  " 

Corn  bread 1/90  " 

OIL  EQUIVALENT 

Deep  fry 2/25  « 

Pie  dough 3/100  '' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


TJ.  S.  Navy  Cook  Book  119 

Biscuits 1/40    lb. 

Cake 1/50    " 

Bread  1/376  '' 

EoUs 2/325  " 

Com  bread 2/225  " 

Mayonnaise   3/100  " 

French  dressi^ig 3/100  '^ 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


INDEX                         -       ,^„, 
Preface 3 


METHODS  OF  COOKING 

Baking   6 

Boiling  and  simmering T 

Braising  '. 9 

Frying  and  sant^ing 8 

Eoasting  and  broiling 6 

Steaming   10 

THE  PREPARATION  OF  SOUP  STOCK 

Bean  soup 18 

Cream  of  celery  soup 1(5 

Cream  of  tomato  soup 16 

Dried  pea  soup 18 

English  beef  soup 15 

Julienne  soup   17 

Macaroni  soup 14 

Noodle  soup 14 

Onion  soup   15 

Oyster  soup 18 

Potato  soup 17 

Printanier  soup 17 

Rice  and  tomato  soup 16 

Scotch  broth   15 

Vegetable  soup 14 

-»▼              'IT                                                                                               Digitized  by  VjVJijy!  ^- 

Vermicelli  soup P.....  14 


122  Index 

HOW  TO  CLEAR  STOCK  p^^^, 

Consomm^  royal  20 

Consomme  with  macaroni,  noodles  or  vermicelli 21 

Consomme  with  ^go 21 

Consomme  with  tapioca 21 

CHOWDERS 

Clam  chowder 22 

Fish  chowder 23 

FISH   DISHES 

Canned  codfish  fritters. , 26 

Canned  salmon  cakes 27 

Canned  salmon  croquettes 2G 

Canned  salmon  fritters 25 

Clam  fritters 2G 

Codfish  cakes 2? 

Crab  croquettes 27 

Fish  fried  in  butter.  . .  .* 25 

Fish  fritters 25 

Fried  fish 24 

Lobster  croquettes 27 

Oyster  fritters 26 

MEATS 

Beef  a  la  mode  No.  1 35 

Beef  a  la  mode  No.  2 35 

Beef  kidneys   33 

Beef  loaf   31 

Beef  plates  boiled D^gitzadfcy.CaQgL 33 


Index  123 

PAGE 

Beef  plates  braised 34 

Beef  sea  pie 32 

Beefsteak  pie 31 

Beef  stew 32 

Boiled  beef 29 

Boiled  leg  of  mutton 38 

Braised  beef 29 

Broiled  steak 30 

Cream  of  veal 36 

Fricassee  of  veal 36 

Fried  beefsteak  30 

Fried  pork  chops 39 

Hamburger  steak  No.  1 31 

Hamburger  steak  No.  2 31 

Minced  beef  No.  1 34 

Minced  beef  No.  2 34 

Eagout  of  beef 33 

Kagout  of  veal 36 

Roast  beef  28 

Roast  beef  hearts 32 

Roast  leg  of  mutton 38 

Roast  leg  or  shoulder  of  pork 38 

Roast  pork  loins 38 

Roast  vea} 36 

Stewed  steak  (Spanish) 30 

Stuffed  shoulders  of  mutton  or  veal 38 

Veal  croquettes 37 

Veal  or  beef  loaf 37 

Veal  or  beef  and  potato  salad 37 

Veal  salad , . .  37 

TT        1         X                                                                                                                  Digitized  by  VjOOQ It  -.^ 

Veal  stew , , q  . .  36 


124  Index 

VAmOUS   MEAT  RECIPES  p^^g 

Baked  spiced  ham 43 

Beef  croquettes  40 

Beef  potato  croquettes 41 

Boiled  corned  beef 40 

Boiled  ham   43 

Boiled  salt  pork  (navy) 42 

Cold  sliced  corn  beef 41 

Corned  beef  fried  in  batter 42 

Corned  beef  hash 40 

Fresh  beef  hash 40 

Fried  bacon 44 

Fried  beef  liver 41 

Fried  salt  pork 42 

Fried  smoked  ham 43 

Bissoles  and  croquettes  of  corned  beef 42 

Smoked  tongue  44 

Tinned  hams 44 

Veal  cutlets 41 

POULTRY 

Chicken  stew 45 

Boast  turkey  or  chicken 45 

METHOD  OF  PREPARING  AND  COOKING  VEGETABLES 

American  fries   48 

Baked  potatoes   47 

Baked  sweet  potatoes 50 

Boiled  cabbage 50 

Boiled  carrots ^j 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC^ 


Index  125 

PAGE 

Boiled  carrots  with  green  peas 52 

Boiled  kale 53 

Boiled  lima  beans,  dried 54 

Boiled  onions 52 

Boiled  parsnips 52 

Boiled  potatoes  46 

Boiled  spinach 53 

Boiled  string  beans,  fresh 53 

Boiled  sweet  potatoes 41> 

Boiled  turnips 51 

Candied  sweet  potatoes 50 

Cold  slaw 5a 

Cottage  fried  potatoes 48 

Creamed  carrots  52 

Creamed  onions 52 

Creamed  parsnips 53 

Creamed  potatoes  49 

Creamed  turnips 51 

French  fried  potatoes 48 

Fried  eggplant   53 

Fried  onions   52 

Fried  sweet  potatoes 49 

Green  peas,  dried 54 

Green  peas,  fresh 53 

Hash  brown  potatoes 47 

Hot  slaw   50 

Kidney  beans,  dried 54 

liima  beans,  fresh 54 

Lyonnaise  potatoes 47 

Mashed  potatoes  ^  . . . . .  47 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


126  Index 

PAGE 

Mashed  turnips 51 

Mashed  turnips  with  potatoes 51 

Peeled  baked  potatoes   46 

Potato  cakes   49 

Potato  croquettes   49 

Saute  potatoes 47 

Stuffed  baked  potatoes 48 

THICKENING  AGENTS  AND  SAUCES 

Brown  roux 55 

Brown  sauce 56 

Caper  sauce '. 56 

Celery  sauce 57 

Chocolate  sauce 58 

Cornstarch  56 

Cream  sauce 56 

Custard  sauce 57 

Flour 56 

Golden  sauce 58 

Hard  sauce 58 

Horseradish  sauce 57 

Onion  sauce 57 

Suitable  sauces  that  may  be  served  with  meats 58 

Tinned  fruit  sauce . . . : 58 

Vanilla  sauce 57 

White  roux 55 

White  sauce 66 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Index  127 

DESSERTS,  PUDDINGS,  PASTRIES   (FOR  100  MEN) 

PAGE 

Bread  pudding  No.  1 59 

Bread  pudding  No.  2 59 

Cornstarch  pudding 62 

Cottage  pudding ,. . . .  61 

Custard  pudding 62 

Indian  pudding 61 

Lemon  suet  pudding. 61 

Rice  custard  pudding 62 

Stewed  apples  or  apple  sauce 63 

Stewed  peaches 63 

Tapioca  pudding 63 

MISCELLANEOUS   RECIPES 

Baked  beans 65 

Boiled  hominy 65 

Bread  dressing  for  pork  or  veal 67 

Bread  griddle  cakes 67 

Cocoa 71 

Coffee 70 

Cornmeal  griddle  cakes .* 67 

Cucumbers 70 

French  dressing  for  salad 71 

Fried  hominy 66 

Griddle  cakes 66 

Johnny  cakes 66 

Lettuce 70 

Macaroni  recipe  No.  1 64 

Macaroni  recipe  No.  2 64 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


128  Index 

PAfll 


I 


Mayonnaise  dressing 

Oyster  dressing  for  poultry '. . . 

Potato  an  gratin 64 

Potato  salad ,. 6f 

Sliced  tomatoes 76 

String  bean  salad 69 

Stuffed  green  peppers 68 

Sweet  potato  dressing  for  poultry 68 

Tea  71 

Vegetable  salad 62 

BREAD  AND  PASTRY 

Baking  powder  biscuits  92 

Bread  dough  (sponge  system )  74 

Brown  bread  No.  1 87 

Brown  bread  No.  2 87 

Chocolate  cake  (plain) 83 

Chocolate  icing  No,  1 8C 

Chocolate  icing  No.  2 87 

Cinnamon  buns  ,  ', 81 

Cinnamon  cake  82 

Cocoanut  custard  pie ; 91 

Coffee  cake  (navy) 80 

Com  bread 79 

Custard  pie  (plain) 91 

Dried  apple  pie 90 

Dried  peach  pie 89 

Entire  wheat  bread 78 

Flavor 73 

Flour ^t?eab-yG0Gg4c- W 


Indbx  129 

PAOK 

Graham  bread 78 

Homemade  bread 76 

Jelly  doughnuts 82 

Jelly  layer  cake  No.  1 85 

Jelly  layer  cake  No.  2 85 

Jelly  roll  No.  1 85 

Jelly  roll  No.  2 86 

Keeping  of  yeast 74 

Layer  cake 86 

Marble  cake  (navy) 84 

Mince  pie 90 

New  flour 75 

Per  man  per  meal  table 93 

Pie  dough,  bottoms  only,  No.  1 89 

Pie  dough,  bottoms  only,  No.  2 89 

Pie  dough  No.  1 88 

Pie  dough  No.  2 88 

Plain  cake  (navy) 83 

Plum  duff  (baked) 88 

Plum  duff  (boiled  or  stewed) 88 

Pumpkin  pie  No.  1  (navy) 91 

Pumpkin  pie  No.  2  (navy) , 91 

Raised  doughnuts 81 

Raisin  bread 79 

Rolls  (civilian)   80 

Rolls  (navy)    79 

Rye  bread 77 

Rye  bread  (straight  dough  system) 78 

^^^t Digit-zed  b'yV^OU^ie  '^^ 


130  Index 

PAGE 

Short  cake 92 

Spice  cake  (navy) 84 

Streusel 80 

Sweet  dough  (civilian) 82 

Temperature 74 

Tinned  apple  pie 90 

Tinned  apricot  pie 90 

Tinned  peach  pie 90 

Vienna  or  hard  crust  rolls , .' 7G 

Water   73 

White  bread  (straight  dough  system) 76 

Yield 74 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ 


