LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 

dljap.  l.t.  inpijrigp  !ftu- 
Shelf. 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


riiiiiLlU 


Sb 


(E 


mmmSuiimmSuSi ' M nimmnnt.wj.iiiiiMiiiiHn«iiliiiilii 


NEW      YORK, 
GEORGE  W.HARLAN 


I  19      PARK     PLACE.  • 

I  jiiiiiilaji'iii»i>niiUi'Ta>»»fitiMiuF<itftti/^iuiWtiii»'"'«'M»il*''Wli»»iimif'iF"ir|JaU 


& 


t 


Mt^||pHWWm»i.jL|lMWt»i.iHHf«i|^(IH»^  |  Utt!i9 


k£i 


VALUABLE 


COOKING  RECEIPTS. 


/ 

THOMAS  J*   MTTKBEY, 


BY 


Late  Caterer  of  Astor  House  and  Rossmore  Hotel  of  New  York,  and 
Continental  Hotel  of  Philadelphia. 


0  IS 


NEW   YORK: 

GEORGE    W.    HARLAN, 

19  Park  Place. 

1880. 


Copyright,  1880,  by 
GEORGE    W.    HARLAN. 


PREFACE 


IN"  issuing  this  little  volume  the  publisher  is  aware  that 
the  market  is  already  deluged  with  "  cook-books,"  both 
good  and  bad  ;  but  the  aim  in  this  instance  is  to  utilize  the 
experience  of  a  caterer,  who  has  spent  twenty-five  years  of 
his  life  in  the  service  of  leading  hotels  and  restaurants  all 
over  the  country,  besides  catering  to  the  appetites  of  thou- 
sands of  private  families.  The  well-known  and  unsurpassed 
cuisine  of  the  hotels  where  he  has  been  employed  would  of 
itself  form  testimony  conclusive  of  his  culinary  ability,  but 
he  possesses  besides  numerous  flattering  letters  from  pri- 
vate parties,  many  of  high  standing  in  the  community. 
As  a  salad-maker  his  reputation  is  wide-spread,  and  his 
receipts  under  this  head  are  numbered  among  the  hundreds, 
any  one  of  which  is  a  masterpiece  of  epicurean  art  and 
taste.  It  is  my  intention  shortly  to  issue  a  book  contain- 
ing these  receipts. 

In  writing  receipts  for  this  volume  Mr.  Murrey  has  kept 
economy  constantly  in  mind,  and  has  endeavored  to  present 
some  of  the  most  appetizing  formulas  in  such  a  shape  as  to 
be  within  the  reach  of  all  families  of  moderate  means. 
Each  and  every  receipt  has  been  personally  tested  and  can 
be  implicitly  relied  upon.  The  arrangement  is  that  of  a 
regular  bill  of  fare  or  menu.  It  will  be  understood,  of 
course,  that  the  contents  of  this  book  do  not  pretend  to 
cover  the  field  of  cookery.     Some  idea  of  the  magnitude  of 


4  Preface. 

such  a  task  can  be  had  when  you  are  informed  that  Mr. 
Murrey  possesses  probably  the  largest  library  on  gastronomic 
art  in  this  country,  numbering  many  thousand  volumes. 
Like  all  men  who  have  made  this  art  a  study,  he  has  aimed  to 
so  construct  his  formulas  as  to  ward  off  indigestion  and  dys- 
pepsia. Apropos  at  this  point  is  a  story  illustrating  the  phi- 
lanthropy of  that  prince  of  French  chefs,  Careme.  Meeting 
one  day  a  woman  bitterly  weeping  at  the  door  of  a  wine- 
shop, his  commiserating  question  was  answered  by  saying 
her  husband  was  within  ;  all  his  earnings  were  spent  there 
and  his  family  left  to  starve.  Close  questioning  revealed 
the  fact  that  the  culprit  liked  good  living,  and  that  the  wife 
condemned  him  to  boiled  beef  every  day.  "  No  man  cares 
to  go  abroad,"  said  Careme  reproachfully,  "  for  a  bad  meal, 
if  his  wife  can  cook  him  a  good  one,  particularly  if  a  silver- 
smith and  earning  money."  Careme  visited  the  house  the 
next  morning,  and  ordered  a  silver  cup  to  be  repaired,  and, 
while  waiting  for  its  completion,  offered  to  cook  his  own 
breakfast,  which  the  man  and  wife  shared.  It  was  wood- 
cock cooked  in  a  way  to  electrify  an  Apicius.  Careme 
called  again  for  his  cup  with  some  wild  duck.  Meantime, 
the  wife  made  rapid  progress  in  the  chefs  art.  The  husband 
ceased  wasting  his  money.  The  delicate  fare  improved  his 
intellect ;  he  became  an  artist  in  his  trade,  and  finally  one 
day  Careme  received  a  box  containing  a  silver  woodcock  ex- 
quisitely carved,  carrying  in  its  beak  a  tiny  silver  cup,  with 
the  inscription,  "  To  Careme,  from  a  friend  who  was  saved 
by  good  cooking." 

The  Publisher. 


VALUABLE  COOKING  RECEIPTS. 


OYSTERS. 


Raw  Oysters. — Eat  raw  oysters  as  plain  and  as  free  from 
condiments  as  possible,  and  always  on  the  deep  shell  in  their 
own  liquor.  The  average  American  orders  a  dozen  on  the 
half -shell  and  then  drowns  his  pets  in  vinegar,  pepper,  salt, 
horse-radish,  etc.,  washing  them  down  with  some  malt  beve- 
rage, pays  his  check,  and  disappears.  The  next  day  he  goes 
through  the  same  performance,  and  the  not  over-conscien- 
tious oyster-man,  knowing  his  weakness  for  condiments,  can 
easily  palm  off  on  him  a  "  Rockaway  Cull "  for  a  Blue  Point 
or  a  Green  Point,  or  he  may  give  him  a  "  deep-water  na- 
tive "  for  almost  any  particular  kind  or  brand  he  may  want, 
and  he  cannot  detect  the  difference  in  their  flavor,  owing  to 
his  excessive  use  of  condiments.  A  little  lemon-juice  is 
all  that  is  necessary,  if  you  will  not  eat  your  saline  dainties 
natural. 

The  heartless  oyster-fiend  who  opens  your  oysters  by  smash- 
ing the  shell  should  be  avoided,  for  it  is  cruelty,  to  say  the 
least.  We  can  forgive  him  for  spattering  our  clothing  with 
shells,  mud,  and  dirty  water,  but  filling  our  mouths  with 
these  things  is  pure  ugliness.  Order  a  quart  of  the  bivalves 
to  be  sent  home,  and  this  oyster-butcher  endangers  the 
health  of  your  family  should  any  of  them  swallow  a  par- 
ticle of  the  shell.  The  true  lover  of  an  oyster  should  have 
some  feeling  for  his  little  favorite,  and  patronize  establish- 
ments only  where  they  contrive  to  open  them  (Boston  fash- 
ion) so  dexterously  that  the  mollusk  is  hardly  conscious  he 
has  been  removed  from  his  lodging  "till  he  feels  the  teeth 
of  the  piscivorous  gourmet  tickling  him  to  death. " 

5 


6  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

Roast  Oysters  on  half-shell. — Open  a  dozen  large  oysters  on 
deep  shell;  add  a  walnut  of  butter,  with  a  little  salt  and  mixed 
pepper  (red  and  black)  and  a  pinch  of  cracker-dust  to  each. 
Place  them  on  a  broiler  over  a  sharp,  clear  fire  until  done, 
and  serve. 

Families  not  having  all  the  conveniences  for  roasting  oys- 
ters "restaurant  fashion  "  will  find  the  above  receip  accept- 
able ;  though  I  must  confess  it  is  quite  a  treat  to  our  Western 
cousins  to  ask  them  down  into  the  kitchen  of  an  evening,  and 
serve  up  a  peck  of  oysters  roasted  in  the  shell  direct  from 
the  fire,  with  no  other  tool  to  pick  them  out  of  the  coals 
than  the  old  tongs  the  moment  they  pop  open.  You  may 
possibly  burn  a  finger  or  two,  but  what  of  that  so  long  as 
the  young  folks  have  had  a  good  time? 

Oysters  escalloped. — In  a  deep  yellow  dish  place  a  layer 
of  oysters  and  cover  them  with  cracker-dust  (add  an  ounce 
of  butter  to  each  layer  of  cracker-dust) ;  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste;  another  layer  of  oysters,  another  of  cracker-dust,  and 
so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Moisten  the  dish  with  the  juice 
of  the  oysters  or  hot  water  to  prevent  its  burning,  and 
bake  a  nice  brown. 

Oyster  Patties. — Roll  out  some  very  light  puff  paste  half 
an  inch  thick  ;  stamp  it  in  rounds  with  a  cutter  three  inches 
in  diameter  ;  press  a  small  cutter  two  inches  in  diameter  on 
the  middle  of  each  to  the  depth  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch. 
Place  the  rounds  on  a  buttered  tin,  baste  them  lightly  with 
egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  "When  done  take  them  out, 
remove  the  centre-piece,  scoop  out  a  little  of  the  inside,  and 
fill  the  shells  with  the  prepared  oysters. 

Parboil  twenty-five  oysters  in  their  own  liquor;  remove 
the  oysters  and  season  the  liquid  with  lemon-peel,  nutmeg, 
and  pepper;  strain,  and  thicken  with  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter,  a  wineglassful 
of  rich  cream  ;  mix,  and  then  add  the  oysters.  Simmer  all 
together  a  few  minutes,  fill  the  shells,  and  serve. 

Scallops  and  clams  cut  up  fine,  with  a  sauce  made  on  the 
same  principle,  make  a  very  nice  patty. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  7 

Oyster  toast. — Select  fifteen  plump  oysters;  mince  them, 
and  season  with  mixed  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg;  beat 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  mix  them  with  half  a  pint  of 
cream.  Put  the  whole  into  a  saucepan  and  set  it  over  the 
fire  to  simmer  till  thick;  stir  it  well,  and  do  not  let  it  boil  lest 
it  should  curdle.  Toast  five  pieces  of  bread  and  butter  them  ; 
when  your  dish  is  near  boiling-point  remove  it  from  the  fire 
and  pour  it  over  the  toast. 

Fried  oysters. — Beat  up  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  three  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  and  season  them  wiLh  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper;  beat  up  tho- 
roughly. Dry  twelve  fat  oysters  on  a  napkin;  dip  them  in 
the  egg-batter,  then  in  cracker-dust;  shake  off  the  loose 
cracker- dust,  dip  them  again  in  the  egg-batter,  and  lastly 
roll  them  in  fine  bread-crumbs.  Fry  in  very  hot  fat,  using 
fat  enough  to  cover  them.  The  oil  gives  them  a  nice  flavor. 
(Private  receipt  of  a  prominent  Philadelphia  caterer.) 

Broiled  oysters.— Rub  the  bars  of  a  wire  broiler  with  a  lit- 
tle sweet  butter.  Dry  twelve  large,  fat  oysters  and  place  them 
upon  the  broiler  plain.  Broil  them  over  a  clear  fire,  and 
when  done  on  both  sides  send  to  table  on  a  piece  of  buttered 
toast,  with  a  little  melted  butter  in  a  separate  dish.  Should 
you  hanker  after  a  delightful  case  of  dyspepsia  cover  them 
with  egg-batter  and  roll  them  in  crumbs  before  broiling. 

Oysters  a  la  Poulette. — Blanch  a  dozen  oysters  in  their  own 
liquor;  salt  and  remove  the  oysters;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Beat  up  the  yolk  of  one  egg  while  the 
sauce  is  simmering;  add  the  egg,  and  simmer  the  whole 
until  it  thickens.  Place  the  oysters  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  over  them,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  on  top, 
and  send  to  table.  (This  is  a  favorite  dish  of  Hotel  Bruns- 
wick habitues  in  New  York.) 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 


SOUPS. 

Sir  Henry  Thompson  says  "that  soups,  whether 
clear  or  thick,  are  far  too  lightly  esteemed  by  most  classes. 
They  are  too  often  regarded  as  the  mere  prelude  to  a  meal,  to 
be  swallowed  hastily  or  disregarded  altogether."  And  the 
Almanack  des  Gourmands  tells  us  that  ten  folio  volumes 
would  not  contain  the  receipts  of  all  the  soups  that  have  been 
invented  in  the  Parisian  kitchen  alone. 

Soup  Stock. — In  making  soups  from  raw  meats  break  the 
bones  apart,  place  them  in  a  pot,  cover  them  with  cold  water, 
and  boil  slowly  for  five  or  six  hours;  add  salt  to  quicken  the 
rising  of  the  scum,  which  should  be  thoroughly  removed.  Cut 
up  three  carrots,  three  turnips,  two  heads  of  celery,  and  two 
onions  ;  add  to  the  stock,  together  with  six  or  eight  cloves, 
a  bouquet  of  herbs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  whole  peppers;  strain 
into  a  deep  saucepan,  and  clarify  with  the  white  of  egg.  It 
will  then  be  ready  for  an  indefinite  variety  of  soups. 

Veal  Stock. — Chop  up  three  slices  of  bacon  and  two 
pounds  of  the  neck  of  vea,l;  place  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint 
of  water  or  beef  stock,  and  simmer  half  an  hour;  then  add 
two  quarts  of  stock,  one  onion,  a  carrot,  a  bouquet  of  herbs, 
four  stalks  of  celery,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  bruised  whole 
peppers,  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
boil  gently  for  two  hours,  removing  the  scum  in  the  mean- 
time. Strain  into  an  earthern  crock,  and  when  cold  remove 
the  fat.  A  few  bones  of  poultry  added,  with  an  additional 
quantity  of  water  or  stock,  will  improve  it. 

Veal  Broth. — Stew  a  knuckle  of  veal  in  about  three  quarts 
of  water;  add  two  ounces  of  rice,  a  little  salt,  and  a  blade  of 
mace  :  boil  until  the  liquor  is  reduced  one-half. 

Gumbo  Soup. — Cut  up  two  chickens,  two  slices  of  ham,  and 
two  onions  into  dice  ;  flour  them,  and  fry  the  whole  to  a 
light  brown;  then  fill  the  frying-pan  with  boiling  water,  stir 
it  a  few  minutes,  and  turn  the  whole  into  a  saucepan  con- 
taining three  quarts  of  boiling  water  ;  let  it  boil  forty  min- 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  9 

nfces,  removing  the  scum.  In  the  meantime  soak  three  pints 
of  ochra  in  cold  water  twenty  minutes;  cut  them  into  thin 
slices,  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients  ;  let  it  boil  one  hour 
and  a  half.  Add  a  quart  of  canned  tomatoes  and  a  cupful  of 
boiled  rice  half  an  hour  before  serving. 

Southern  housekeepers  use  the  leaves  of  the  sassafras-tree 
as  a  substitute  for  ochra  when  the  latter  is  scarce  and  dear. 
They  gather  the  young  leaves  and  spread  them  in  the  shade 
for  a  few  days;  then  they  dry  them  in  the  sun.  When  they 
are  thoroughly  dried  they  put  them  in  a  bag  and  hang  them 
up  for  two  or  three  months ;  they  are  then  pulverized  and 
bottled. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup.— Take  half  a  calf's  head  with  the  skin 
on;  remove  the  brains.  Wash  the  head  in  several  waters,  and 
let  it  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Put  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  five  quarts  of  beef  stock;  let  it  simmer  gently  for  an 
hour;  remove  the  scum  carefully,  take  up  the  head,  let  it  get 
cold,  and  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  into  pieces  an  inch 
square  and  set  them  in  the  ice-box.  Dissolve  two  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  frying-pan;  mince  a  large  onion  and  fry  it  in  the 
butter  until  nicely  browned,  and  add  to  the  stock  in  which 
the  head  was  cooked.  Return  the  bones  to  the  stock;  simmer 
the  soup,  removing  the  scum  until  no  more  rises.  Put  in  a 
carrot,  a  turnip,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  bouquet  of  herbs,  a 
dozen  outer  stalks  of  celery,  two  blades  of  mace,  and  the  rind 
of  one  lemon,  grated;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  gently  for 
two  hours,  and  strain  the  soup  through  a  flannel  cloth.  Mix 
three  ounces  of  Barlow's  prepared  browned  flour  with  a  pint 
of  the  soup,  and  simmer  until  it  thickens;  then  add  it  to  the 
soup.  Take  the  pieces  of  head  out  of  the  ice-box  and  add 
to  the  soup  ;  let  them  simmer  until  quite  tender.  "  Before 
serving  add  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  tablespoonful  of 
anchovy  paste,  a  gobletful  of  port  or  sherry,  and  two  lemons 
sliced,  each  slice  cut  into  quarters  with  the  rind  trimmed  off." 
Warm  the  wine  a  very  little  before  adding  it  to  the  soup. 
Keep  in  ice-box  three  or  four  days  before  using.  Serve  the 
brains  as  a  side-dish. 


10  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

Pea  Soup. — Cat  two  large  slices  of  ham  into  dice  with  a 
sliced  onion,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  bacon  fat  until  they  are 
lightly  browned.  Out  up  one  turnip,  one  large  carrot,  four 
outer  stalks  of  celery,  and  one  leek  into  small  pieces;  add 
these  last  ingredients  to  the  ham  and  onion,  and  let  them 
simmer  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  pour  over  them  three 
quarts  of  corned-beef  water  or  hot  water,  and  add  a  pint  of 
split  peas  which  have  been  soaked  in  cold  water  all  night; 
boil  gently  until  the  peas  are  quite  tender,  stirring  constant- 
ly to  prevent  burning;  then  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar.  Eemove  the  soup  from 
the  fire  and  rub  through  a  sieve  ;  if  it  is  not  thick  enough 
to  suit  your  taste  or  fancy  add  a  few  ounces  of  flour  mixed 
smoothly  in  a  little  cold  milk;  return  the  soup  to  the  fire, 
and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Cut  up  four  slices  of  Ameri- 
can bread  into  small  dice,  and  fry  the  pieces  in  very  hot  fat 
until  nicely  browned ;  place  them  on  a  napkin  or  towel, 
and  add  a  few  of  them  to  each  plate  or  tureen  of  soup  just 
before  it  goes  to  table. 

Economical  Pea  Soup. — Boil  two  quarts  of  green-pea  hulls 
in  four  quarts  of  water,  in  which  beef,  mutton,  or  fowl  has 
been  boiled,  four  hours;  then  add  a  bunch  or  bouquet  of 
herbs,  salt  and  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  quart 
of  milk.  Eub  through  a  hair-sieve,  thicken  with  a  little 
flour,  and  serve  with  croutons,  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt. 

Tomato  Soup. — Cut  four  ounces  of  ham  into  dice;  slice 
two  onions  and  fry  with  ham  in  two  ounces  of  butter;  when 
browned  turn  them  into  a  saucepan  containing  three  quarts 
of  stock  or  corned-beef  water,  and  add  three  carrots,  two 
turnips,  one  red  pepper  (lady-finger),  and  a  dozen  outer 
stalks  of  celery;  simmer  gently  for  one  hour,  then  add  a 
quart  of  canned  tomatoes;  boil  gently  for  another  hour,  rub 
the  whole  through  a  sieve,  and  simmer  again  with  the  liquor 
a  few  minutes;  add  salt  and  serve  with  croutons. 

Oxtail  Soup. — Take  two  oxtails;  cut  them  into  joints,  and 
cut  up  each  joint  into  four  pieces;  put  them  into  a  pan  with 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  11 

two  ounces  of  butter,  and  fry  them  ten  minutes.  Slice  two 
onions,  one  turnip,  two  carrots,  a  dozen  outer  stalks  of 
celery,  and  fry  in  the  same  butter,  with  three  slices  of  bacon 
cut  up  fine;  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Turn  the  ingredients  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  quart  of  stock  or  ham-water,  and  boil 
quickly  for  half  an  hour;  then  add  two  more  quarts  of  stock, 
a  bouquet  of  herbs,  two  bay-leaves,  a  dozen  whole  peppers 
crushed,  a  few  cloves,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Simmer  until  the  meat  is  quite  tender;  then  take  it  out, 
strain  the  soup,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  thicken  with  two 
ounces  of  Barlow's  prepared  flour;  return  the  meat  to  the 
soup,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire,  a  cupful  of 
sherry,  and  serve  with  grated  rusks. 

Chicken  Soup. — Take  three  young  male  chickens;  cut  them 
up,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  three  quarts  of  veal  stock; 
a  sliced  carrot,  one  turnip,  and  one  head  of  celery  may  be 
put  with  them  and  removed  before  the  soup  is  thickened. 
Let  them  simmer  for  an  hour.  Remove  all  the  white  flesh; 
return  the  rest  of  the  birds  to  the  soup,  and  boil  gently  for 
two  hours.  Pour  a  little  of  the  liquid  over  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  the  crumbs  of  bread,  and  when  they  are  well  soaked 
put  it  in  a  mortar  with  the  white  flesh  of  the  birds,  and 
pound  the  whole  to  a  smooth  paste  ;  add  a  pinch  of  ground 
mace,  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  press  the  mixture 
through  a  sieve,  and  boil  once  more,  adding  a  pint  of  boiling 
cream;  thicken  with  a  very  little  flour  mixed  in  cold  milk, 
remove  the  bones,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Soup,  No.  2. — Cut  up  one  chicken;  put  into  a 
stew-pan  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
one  pod  of  red  pepper  (lady-finger);  when  half  done  add 
two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  well-washed  rice.  When  thorough- 
ly cooked  remove  the  bird  from  the  soup,  tear  a  part  of  the 
breast  into  shreds  (saving  the  balance  of  the  fowl  for  a 
salad),  and  add  it  to  the  soup  with  a  wineglassful  of  cream. 

Beef  Tea. — Take  half  a  pound  of  lean  beef ;  cut  it 
up  into  small  bits;  let  it  soak  in  a  pint  of  water  three-quar- 


12  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

ters  of  an  hour,  then  put  both  into  a  quart  champagne 
bottle  with  just  a  suspicion  of  salt;  cork  tightly,  and  wire 
the  cork,  so  as  to  prevent  its  popping  out.  Set  the  bottle 
into  a  saucepanful  of  warm  water,  boil  gently  an  hour  and  a 
half,  and  strain  through  a  napkin. 

Beef  tea  administered  often  to  a  patient  without  the  fibrine 
of  the  meat  will  tend  to  weaken  instead  of  strengthen- 
ing the  invalid.  I  always  add  about  a  teaspoonful  of  finely- 
chopped  raw  meat  to  a  goblet  of  the  tea,  and  let  it  stand  in 
the  tea  about  five  minutes  before  serving. 


FISH. 

Codfish  is  about  the  best  fish  that  comes  to  our  market, 
but  it  is  so  cheap  and  plentiful  that  we  do  not  appreciate  it 
quite  as  much  as  we  would  if  the  price  was  twenty-five  cents 
a  pound  and  its  season  to  last  not  over  two  months.  Trout 
and  all  delicate  fish  lose  their  flavor  long  before  they  reach 
New  York,  and  they  should  be  eaten  within  half  an  hour 
after  they  are  caught;  while  the  cod  improves  in  flavor  if 
kept  for  a  day  or  two  with  the  addition  of  a  little  salt  to 
give  it  firmness. 

The  " shoulder  part"  pleases  my  palate  the  most.  Have 
you  ever  tried  a  codfish  steak  for  breakfast,  dredged  in  corn- 
meal  and  fried  in  salt  pork-fat  ?  It  is  splendid.  A  rasher 
of  bacon  served  with  it  does  no  harm. 

In  broiling  cod,  haddock,  bass,  etc.,  always  tie  them  up 
in  a  bag  or  towel,  and  lay  the  fish  in  the  fish-pan,  adding  a 
little  salt,  a  pint  of  Ehine  wine,  or  cupful  of  vinegar,  and 
cover  the  fish  with  cold  water,  allowing  it  to  boil  gently  till 
done.  Drawn-butter  sauce  with  boiled  fish  is  easy  to 
make  and  pleases  almost  everybody. 

Baked  Cod. — When  purchasing  a  four-pound  cod  ask  your 
fish-dealer  to  send  you  three  or  four  "  codfish-heads,"  and 
as  soon  as  the  basket  comes  into  the  house  rub  a  little  salt 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  13 

on  the  fish,  chop  the  heads  into  six  pieces  each,  and  sprinkle 
a  little  salt  over  them.  Place  them  in  the  centre  of  the  bak- 
ing-pan (to  be  used  as  supports  for  the  fish),  with  two  ounces 
of  batter,  one  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  potato,  and  one  onion  cut 
into  slices,  two  blades  of  mace,  a  teaspoonful  white  pepper, 
one  tablespoonful  celery-seed,  six  cloves,  and  a  cupful  of  red 
wine.     Set  the  pan  in  the  oven  while  you  prepare  the  cod. 

Soak  in  cold  water  until  soft  a  sufficiency  of  bread  to  fill 
the  fish;  drain  off  the  water  and  pound  the  bread  to  a  paste; 
mix  with  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  raw 
eggs,  a  tablespoonful  Worcestershire  sauce,  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Put  this  stuffing  inside  the  fish  and  sew  it 
up  ;  place  the  cod  in  the  pan  with  two  or  three  pieces  of  but- 
ter on  the  upper  side  of  the  fish,  and  baste  it  frequently; 
when  it  is  cooked  lay  the  fish  on  a  hot  platter,  and  garnish 
with  fried  oysters,  if  convenient.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Barlow's  prepared  flour  to  the  pan,  a  wineglass  of  sherry; 
mix,  and  strain  the  gravy  into  a  sauce-boat. 

Salt  Codfish  with  Cream. — Soak  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
salt  codfish  over-night.  Next  morning  set  the  fish  to  sim- 
mer for  about  two  hours;  drain  off  the  water  and  strip  the 
fish  into  shreds;  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  of  milk 
and  two  ounces  of  butter;  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk,  and  add  to  the  fish.  Let  the 
whole  come  to  a  boil,  remove  the  dish  from  the  fire,  beat  up 
one  egg  to  a  froth,  add  it  to  the  fish,  stir,  and  serve  im- 
mediately. 

Salt  Mackerel  Broiled. — Soak  a  No.  2  chicken  mackerel  in 
cold  water  over-  night;  pour  off  the  water  and  let  the  fish 
stand  in  milk  enough  to  cover  it  for  one  hour  before  broil- 
ing; baste  the  fish  with  butter,  and  broil.  When  clone 
plunge  the  fish  into  hot  water  for  one  minute,  and  send  to 
table  with  a  dish  of  melted  butter,  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  mixed  together. 

Broiled  Lobster  (for  breakfast).  — Cut  the  tail  part  of  a  lob- 
ster in  two,  rub  a  little  sweet-oil  over  the  meat,  and  broil. 


14  Valuable  CooTc'ng  Receipts. 

When  done  brush  a  little  butter  over  it,  with  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon  and  just  the  suspicion  of  cayenne.  Place  the  meat 
back  into  the  shell,  and  send  to  table  with  a  dish  of  broiled 
tomatoes  and  a  fresh-baked  potato. 

Lobster  en  Brochette. — Cut  up  the  tail  of  a  lobster  into 
square  pieces;  take  a  few  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  cut  into 
lengths  to  match  the  pieces  of  lobster;  place  them  on  a 
skewer  alternately,  and  broil;  baste  as  in  "  broiled  lobster," 
and  send  to  table  on  a  bed  of  water-cress. 

Baked  Shad. — Make  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  worked  to  a  paste;  fill  the  shad  with  the  mix- 
ture, sew  it  up,  and  place  it  lengthwise  in  a  baking-pan  with 
a  little  water  and  an  ounce  of  butter.  Fill  the  space  be- 
tween the  fish  and  the  sides  of  the  pan  with  slices  of  raw 
potatoes  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  serve  fish  and 
potatoes  together.  Add  a  spoonful  of  Barlow's  prepared 
flour  to  the  gravy,  and  serve. 

"Tenderloin"  Trout. — Take  a  large  catfish  and  cut  it  up 
into  pieces  two  inches  in  length  and  one  inch  in  thickness. 
Beat  up  three  eggs  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire;  dip  the  fish  in  the  egg-batter, 
and  roll  in  corn-meal  or  bread-crumbs.  Fry  a  deep  brown, 
garnish  with  lemon,  parsley,  or  celery-tops,  and  send  to  table 
with  a  cucumber  salad. 

Fricasseed  Eels. — Cut  up  three  pounds  of  eels  into  pieces 
of  three  inches  in  length;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  and 
cover  them  with  Rhine  wine  (or  two-thirds  water  and  one- 
third  vinegar);  add  fifteen  oysters,  two  pieces  of  lemon,  a 
bouquet  of  herbs,  one  onion  quartered,  six  cloves,  three 
stalks  celery,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Stew  the  eels  one  hour;  remove  them  from  the  dish;  strain 
the  liquor.  Put  it  back  into  the  stew-pan  with  a  gill  of 
cream  and  an  ounce  of  butter  rolled  in  flour;  simmer  gently 
a  few  minutes,  pour  over  the  fish,  and  serve  with  a  toasted 
milk  cracker. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  15 

Soyer's  Boiled  Salmon. — I  always  prefer  dressing  this  fish 
in  slices  from  an  inch  to  two  inches  in  thickness,  boiling  it  in 
plenty  of  salt  and  water  twenty  minutes.  The  whole  fish 
may  be  boiled,  but  it  requires  longer  boiling.  Salmon  eats 
firmer  by  not  putting  it  into  water  until  it  is  boiling.  Dress 
the  fish  upon  a  napkin  and  serve  with  lobster-sauce,  or  plain 
melted  butter  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  boiled  a  few 
minutes  in  it. 

I  generally  boil  a  salmon  whole,  or  head  and  shoulders  in 
one  piece,  with  salt,  and  cover  the  fish  with  equal  parts  of 
warm  water  and  Rhine  wine,  two  or  three  bay-leaves,  a  few 
cloves,  etc.  When  done  I  use  the  water  in  making  sauce  by 
reducing  one-half,  adding  butter  rolled  in  flour  to  thicken, 
pinch  of  cayenne,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Eel  Patties. — Take  three  medium-sized  eels  and  cut  them 
up  into  inch  pieces.  Put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  add  salt,  and 
cover  them  with  cold  water.  When  the  water  comes  to  a 
boil  take  them  off  the  fire,  wash  them  in  cold  water,  scrape 
off  any  fat  that  m  «.y  adhere,  return  them  to  the  stew-pan  with 
just  enough  hot  water  to  cover  them,  and  add  a  blade  of  mace, 
a  bay-leaf,  a  few  whole  peppers,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and 
one  lemon  cut  into  slices.  Stew  gently  until  the  fish  will 
separate  from  the  bone ;  remove  the  fish  from  the  broth,  pick 
it  into  small  pieces,  and  set  them  aside  ;  reduce  the  broth  a 
little,  strain,  and  thicken  with  flour  and  butter.  Return  the 
fish  to  the  broth,  simmer  a  moment,  fill  your  patties  and 
serve ;  make  patty-shells  as  directed  for  oyster  patties. 

Drawn-Butter  Sauce. — Season  a  cupful  of  flour  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  mix  it  with  some  water  into 
a  paste,  and  work  in  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  an 
egg ;  put  the  pan  over  the  fire  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes  ; 
tli en  take  it  off,  add  some  fresh  butter  in  small  portions  at  a 
time,  stirring  continually  to  prevent  the  butter  from  rising  to 
the  top.     Add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  before  serving. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter. — Mix  four  ounces  of  butter  with  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  the  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  serve  with  boiled  fish,  etc. 


16  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

Anchovy  Sauce. — An  easy  way  of  making  anchovy  sauce  is 
to  stir  two  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  prepared  essence  or  paste 
of  anchovy  (which  may  be  bought  at  your  grocer's)  into  a 
pint  of  melted  butter  ;  let  the  sauce  boil  a  few  minutes,  and 
flavor  with  lemon -juice. 

Lobster  Sauce. — Break  the  shell  of  the  lobster  into  small 
pieces.  Pour  over  them  one  pint  of  water  or  veal-stock  and 
a  pinch  of  salt ;  simmer  gently  until  the  liquid  is  reduced 
one-half.  Mix  two  ounces  of  butter  with  an  ounce  of  flour, 
strain  the  liquid  upon  it,  and  stir  all  over  the  fire  until  the 
mixture  thickens  ;  do  not  let  it  boil.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  lobster-meat,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  serve. 

The  spawn  and  coral  mixed  with  double  the  quantity  of 
butter,  a  little  cayenne,  and  pounded  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste, 
then  pressed  through  a  hair-sieve,  is  called  lobster-butter ;  a 
spoonful  of  it  added  to  the  sauce  will  improve  it ;  the  rest  of 
the  butter  may  be  used  in  garnishing  and  decorating  cold 
salmon,  etc. 

Caper  Sauce. — Chop  up  two  tablespoonfuls  of  capers  and 
add  them  to  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  with  the  piece  of 
one  lemon,  a  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  ;  put  on  the  fire  and  simmer  a  few  minutes  ;  mix  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  with  a  very  little  cold  water,  and  add  to 
the  sauce. 

Celery  Sauce. — Put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  saucepan, 
melt  it,  and  add  two  heads  of  celery  cut  up  into  inch  pieces  ; 
stir  the  celery  in  the  pan  until  it  is  quite  tender  ;  add  salt 
and  pepper,  with  a  little  mace.  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
in  a  cupful  of  stock  and  simmer  half  an  hour.  A  cupful  of 
cream  may  be  used  instead  of  the  stock. 

Oyster  Sauce. — Blanch  one  dozen  oysters  in  their  own 
liquor  ;  then  take  the  oysters  out  and  add  two  blades  of  mace, 
an  ounce  of  melted  butter,  and  a  cupful  of  thickened  cream  ; 
return  the  oysters  to  the  sauce,  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and 
serve ;  salt  to  taste. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  17 

Oyster  Sauce,  No.  2. — Take  a  dozen  large  oysters  and  boil 
them  in  their  own  liquor  two  minutes  ;  remove  them  from 
the  liquid,  and  quarter  them.  Mix  an  ounce  of  butter  and  an 
ounce  of  flour  in  a  stew-pan,  add  the  oyster  liquor,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  or  two  drops  tobasco  pepper-sauce,  with  a  little 
nutmeg  and  half  a  pint  of  cream.  Stir  the  whole  gently 
over  the  fire  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  and  thick.  Add  the 
pieces  of  oysters,  simmer  a  moment  longer,  and  serve. 

Egg  Sauce. — Put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour  and  a  very  little  water  ;  sim- 
mer gently.  When  ready  to  boil  take  the  saucepan  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  two  ounces  more  of  butter  and  three  cold 
hard-boiled  eggs  cut  up  small ;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  the 
egg- 
Dutch  Sauce. — Blend  together  two  ounces  of  butter  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  equal  quan- 
tities of  stock  and  vinegar  (from  the  bottle  containing  im- 
ported mixed  pickles),  say  a  wineglassful  of  each  ;  stir  for 
two  minutes,  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  keeping  up 
the  stirring  till  the  mixture  thickens  ;  if  you  let  it  boil  it 
will  curdle.     Add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  before  serving. 

Gravy  for  Baked  Fish. — Brown  a  sliced  onion  in  a  little 
butter  and  add  gradually  a  pint  of  stock;  thicken  with  ata- 
blespoonful  of  Barlow's  prepared  flour,  and  let  the  mixture 
simmer  with  a  bunch  of  parsley  nearly  half  an  hour;  strain 
the  gravy  and  add  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  walnut-catsup. 


BOILING. 


Before  boiling  joints  of  meat  the  cook  should  think  for  a  mo- 
ment whether  she  desires  the  juices  to  go  into  the  water,  as 
in  soup,  gravies,  etc.,  or  to  be  retained  in  the  meat  itself. 
If  they  are  to  be  retained  put  the  meat  into  fast-boiling 
water,  and  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes  to  make  the  outside 
hard  and   thus   prevent   the  juice  escaping;  then   add  cold 


18  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

water  equal  in  quantity  to  about  one-half  of  the  boiling  water  ; 
this  will  reduce  the  temperature  to  about  160°  (Liebig),  at 
which  point  the  meat  (raw)  should  be  kept  until  thoroughly 
done,  which,  however,  takes  a  much  longer  time  than  the 
ordinary  mode.  Care  must  be  taken  to  remove  the  scum 
when  the  water  is  on  the  point  of  boiling,  or  it  will  quickly 
sink  and  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  meat. 

If  it  is  desired  to  extract  the  juice  from  raw  meat,  cover 
it  with  cold  water  and  simmer  slowly  as  before. 

Salted  meat  requires  longer  boiling  than  fresh  meat. 

Dried  and  smoked  meat  should  be  soaked  for  some  hours 
before  it  is  put  into  the  water.  Place  your  meat  in  a  sauce- 
pan sufficiently  large  to  contain  the  joint  easily  and  cover 
with  water,  and  no  more. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton. — Cut  off  the  shank-bone,  trim  the 
knuckle,  and  wash  the  mutton;  put  it  into  a  pot  with  salt  and 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Allow  it  to  boil  a  few  minutes; 
skim  the  surface  clean,  draw  your  pot  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  simmer  until  done.  Time,  from  two  to  two  hours  and 
a  half. 

Do  not  try  the  leg  with  a  fork  to  determine  whether  it 
is  done  or  not.  You  will  lose  all  the  juices  of  the  meat  by  so 
doing. 

Serve  with  caper  sauce,  or  melted  butter  with  a  few  small 
capers  added. 

The  liquor  from  the  boiling  may  be  converted  into  soup 
with  the  addition  of  a  ham-bone  and  a  few  vegetables  boiled 
together. 

English  housekeepers  hang  up  a  leg  of  mutton  from  two 
days  to  at  least  a  week  before  using,  weather  allowing. 

Corned  Beef. — Put  your  corned  beef  in  a  saucepan  or  pot 
and  cover  with  cold  water  ;  boil  gently  until  done.  Allow 
half  an  hour  to  the  pound  after  it  has  come  to  a  boil. 

The  ingredients  used  in  making  a  pickle  for  corned  beef 
harden  the  fibres  of  the  meat,  so  that  to  plunge  it  into  hot 
water  would  not  only  make  it  tough  and  hard  but  indiges- 
tible. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  19 

Boiled  Tongue. — Soak  a  smoked  or  dry  tongue  over-night. 
Next  morning  set  it  in  a  pot  of  water  and  simmer  slowly  for 
five  or  six  hours.  Eemove  the  pot  from  the  fire,  and  when 
the  water  has  cooled  take  out  the  tongue,  tear  off  the  skin, 
and  trim  off  the  ragged  end. 

Boiled  Ham. — Soak  the  ham  over-night;  scrape  off  the 
rus'y  spots,  put  into  a  pot,  and  cover  with  plenty  of  cold 
water;  add  a  bouquet  of  herbs  and  a  few  cloves  to  the  water, 
and  boil  very  slowly  until  done;  remove  the  pot  from  the 
fire,  and  when  cold  take  out  the  ham,  take  off  the  skin,  trim 
the  fat  off  around  the  edge.  Take  half  a  cupful  of  brown 
sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  prepared  browned  flour,  and  moisten 
with  port  wine;  cover  this  paste  over  the  fat  of  the  ham,  and 
set  it  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  the  mixture  froths. 

Boiled  Chicken. — Wash  a  chicken  in  lukewarm  water;  truss 
it,  put  it  into  hot  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  draw  it 
to  one  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  gently  until  ready; 
remove  the  scum  as  it  rises.  The  more  slowly  it  boils  the 
whiter  and  tenderer  it  will  be.  Add  a  very  little  salt,  and 
half  a  lemon  cut  into  small  pieces,  to  the  water  before  boil- 
ing.    Serve  with  any  white  or  cream  sauce. 

Boiled  Turkey. — Cassell's  work  on  cookery  tells  us  that 
"there  is  an  old  proverb  which  says  that  a  turkey  boiled  is  a 
turkey  spoiled,  but  in  this  couplet  there  is  more  rhyme  than 
reason,  as  a  boiled  turkey  forms  a  dainty  dish,  most  accept- 
able to  persons  with  dulicate  stomachs,  who  fear  the  richness 
of  the  roasted  bird."  Take  a  plump  hen-turkey,  singe,  draw 
it,  and  truss  as  you  would  to  roast ;  make  a  stuffing  of  herbs, 
salt,  pepper,  bread-crumbs,  a  little  mace  and  grated  lemon - 
peel,  with  a  few  oysters  chopped  up,  a  spoonful  of  butter,  and 
a  raw  egg;  mix  your  dressing  well  together,  fill  the  bird,  and 
sew  it  up;  tie  up  the  turkey  in  a  flowered  cloth  to  make  it 
white,  and  simmer  until  tender.  Time,  about  two  hours  and 
a  half. 

Serve  with  oyster  sauce. 


20  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts* 

Boiled  Capon. — Boil  a  capon  as  you  would  a  large  chicken, 
add  a  bouquet  of  herbs  to  the  water,  and  serve  with  egg 
sauce. 

When  a  boiled  fowl  has  been  so  far  used  that  meat  slices 
cannot  be  carved  from  it,  the  remains  may  be  cut  up  for 
hash,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  moistened  with  hot 
water  (or  the  water  in  which  the  fowl  has  been  boiled);  stir 
the  dish  while  it  is  simmering  to  prevent  burning;  serve  on 
a  piece  of  buttered  toast,  and  place  two  poached  eggs  on  top 
of  the  hash  for  each  person.  Or  mince  the  remains  of  fowl 
very  fine  with  an  equal  quantity  of  calf's  brains  or  sweet- 
breads; season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg;  add  a  lit- 
tle cracker-dust,  two  raw  eggs;  moisten  with  Rhine  wine  or 
cream,  mix  well  together,  roll  into  balls  the  size  of  an  egg,  dip 
into  egg  batter,  then  into  crumbs,  and  fry  in  very  hot  fat. 


ENTREES. 


Fillet  of  Beef. — Cut  the  fillet  (tenderloin)  out  of  a  sirloin  of 
beef  ;  trim  olf  the  fat  and  the  sack  or  skin,  and  lard  it  with 
fat  pork  cut  into  narrow  strips  two  inches  long.  Put  each 
strip  of  pork  (or  bacon)  into  a  larding-needle,  and  with  the 
point  of  your  needle  take  up  as  much  flesh  as  will  hold  the 
strip  of  pork,  allowing  abou  half  an  inch  of  each  end  ex- 
posed after  removing  the  needle;  repeat  this  process  as 
neatly  and  as  evenly  as  possible  and  at  equal  distances  until 
finished.  Rub  a  little  sweet  oil  and  salt  over  the  fillet ;  set 
it  one  side  a  few  minutes  while  you  prepare  the  roasting 
(baking)  pan  for  it. 

Chop  up  into  small  pieces  a  few  beef  or  veal  bones,  and 
cover  the  bottom  of  your  pan  with  them.  Add  three  slices 
of  bacon,  two  carrots,  two  onions,  and  one  turnip  sliced, 
with  a  pint  of  stock.  Season  with  salt,  bruised  whole  pep- 
pers, a  bay-leaf,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Place 
the  fillet  in  the  pan  with  the  larded  side  up.     Moisten  it  with 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  21 

a  wineglassful  of  vinegar,  and  bake.  When  done  remove 
the  fillet,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Barlow's  prepared  flour  and 
a  glass  of  sherry  or  port  to  the  pan,  mix,  and  strain  the  sauce 
on  to  the  fillet.  Chop  up  half  a  dozen  button-mushrooms, 
sprinkle  over  the  meat,  and  serve. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. — Take  three  pounds  of  fresh  rump  of  beef; 
remove  the  fat  and  sinews.  Cut  fat  bacon  into  long  strips  and 
lard  the  meat  with  it  through  and  through.  Mix  together 
a  few  cloves,  mace,  allspice,  whole  peppers,  salt-spoonful  of 
cayenne,  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  herbs,  and  a  clove  of 
garlic,  with  half  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Put  the  meat  into  an 
earthen  crock  or  deep  stew-pan,  with  a  thin  piece  of  bacon 
under  it  ;  add  the  vinegar  and  seasoning  and  a  pint  of  stock, 
with  a  walnut  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover  the  crock  and 
simmer  gently  until  done.  When  preferred  vegetables  may 
be  added  and  served  with  the  beef,  allowing  plenty  of  stock 
or  water  for  them  to  boil  nicely. 

Beef  Stew. — Take  a  three  pound  piece  of  rump  of  beef  ;  re- 
move the  bone,  bind  it  up  tight,  and  put  it  in  a  pot  or  stew- 
pan  that  will  just  hold  it.  Season  with  ground  spices.  Fry 
two  large  onions  sliced,  and  add  them  to  it,  with  two  carrots, 
two  turnips,  a  few  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  head  of  celery, 
and  a  potato  quartered ;  add  stock  enough  to  cover  the 
meat.  Simmer  as  gently  as  possible  until  quite  tender. 
Remove  the  fat,  take  out  the  meat,  and  add  half  a  pint  of 
port,  a  wineglassful  of  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  Worcester- 
shire sauce  to  the  gravy  ;  strain  over  the  meat,  and  serve 
with  a  garnish  of  assorted  vegetables  arranged  neatly  around 
the  dish. 

Beefsteak  Pie. — Cover  the  sides  of  a  raised  pie-mould  with 
butter,  and  put  a  lining  of  paste  made  in  the  following  man- 
ner neatly  into  it  :  Chop  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet  ;  put 
it  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  same  quantity  of  butter  and  a 
pint  of  water.  When  boiling  pass  them  through  a  sieve  in- 
to two  pounds  of  flour,  and  stir  it  with  a  spoon  until  cold. 
When  the  paste  is  quite  smooth  roll  it  out  and  it  is  ready 


22  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

for  the  lining.  Cut  up  two  pounds  of  round  or  rump  steak 
into  pieces  about  two  inches  square  ;  dust  them  with  flour ; 
season  with  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper;  lay  them  round  the 
mould;  fill  it  with  alternate  layers  of  potatoes  cut  into  quar- 
ters, and  meat.  Make  a  lid  for  the  mould  with  some  of  the 
paste,  brush  it  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  three  hours. 
Put  an  ornamental  centre  to  the  cover,  that  it  may  be  more 
easily  raised  to  throw  in  some  gravy  as  soon  as  it  is  baked. 

Calfs  Head. — The  first  thing  to  do  on  receiving  a  calf's 
head  is  to  remove  the  brains,  throw  them  into  cold  water  for 
an  hour,  drain,  then  boil  them  in  salt  and  water  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  set  them  aside. 

Put  the  head  into  cold  water  and  wash  it  well,  and  leave 
it  there  to  draw  out  the  blood  for  an  hour ;  then  take  it  out 
and  dry  it  well  with  a  towel. 

Bone  a  calf's  head  in  the  following  manner :  Place  the 
calf's  head  on  the  table  with  the  front  part  of  the  head  fac- 
ing you  ;  draw  the  sharp  point  of  a  knife  from  the  back  part 
of  the  head  right  down  to  the  nose,  making  an  incision  down 
to  the  bone  of  the  skull ;  then  with  the  knife  clear  the  scalp 
and  cheeks  from  the  bones  right  and  left,  always  keeping  the 
point  of  the  knife  close  to  the  bone.  If  you  have  not  pre- 
viously removed  the  brains,  chop  the  head  in  two  and  re- 
move them  as  carefully  as  possible. 

When  the  head  has  been  boned  wash  it  wrell,  wipe  it  with 
a  clean  cloth,  season  the  inside  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  it 
up  witli  the  tongue,  tie  it  up,  and  blanch  it  in  hot  water  for 
ten  minutes  ;  then  put  it  into  cold  water  a  few  minutes,  wipe 
it  dry,  and  set  it  aside  until  wranted. 

Fried  Calf's  Head. — Cut  the  prepared  calf's  head  into 
pieces  two  inches  wide  ;  lay  them  for  three  hours  in  a  pickle 
made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice,  a  wiuegiassful  of 
Rhine  wine,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Take 
them  out,  drain  them,  and  dip  each  piece  in  egg-batter  ; 
roll  in  cracker-dust,  fry  in  hot  fat,  and  send  to  table  with 
sauce  tartare. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  23 

Sauce  Tartare. — Mince  two  small  English  pickles,  one- 
fourth  of  an  onion,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  together. 
Acid  them  to  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mayonnaise  sauce,  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Mix  and  serve  (see  mayonnaise 
sauce).     A  few  tarragon-leaves  will  improve  the  sauce. 

Calf's  Head,  Maitre  d'Hotel. — Cut  up  your  prepared  calf's 
head  into  neat  slices,  and  simmer  gently  for  two  hours;  take 
out  the  pieces  of  meat,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  and  cover  them 
with  Maitre  d'Hotel  sauce;  garnish  with  parsley. 

Calf  s  Head  Broiled. — Cut  up  a  prepared  calf's  head  into 
pieces  quite  three  inches  wide;  place  them  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  water.  Add  a  wineglassful  of  vinegar,  and  sim- 
mer half  an  hour;  then  place  them  in  cold  water  a  few 
minutes,  dry  them  on  a  towel,  rub  a  little  sweet-oil  over  each 
piece,  and  broil.  When  done  brush  melted  butter  over 
them  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Calf  s  Head  Collared. — Bone  a  calf's  head  carefully,  wash  it 
well,  and  wipe  it  dry;  lay  the  head  on  the  table,  and  spread  on  it 
a  force-meat  made  of  the  brain  and  tongue,  and  a  very  little 
ham  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  thyme,  a  teaspoonful  of  marjoram,  the  minced 
yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  wineglassful  brandy,  and  a 
little  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Roll  the  head  as  tightly  as  pos- 
sible, and  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  binding  it  with  tape.  Put  it  into 
a  saucepan  with  stock  enough  to  cover  it,  and  add  a  carrot, 
a  parsnip,  one  onion,  a  sliced  lemon,  a  few  bay-leaves,  salt, 
and  a  dozen  bruised  peppers. 

Let  it  boil  gently  three  hours;  then  take  it  out  of  the  cloth 
and  pour  round  it  a  sauce  made  of  a  pint  of  the  liquid  in 
which  it  was  boiled,  with  a  little  lemon- juice,  two  small 
pickles,  and  four  button-mushrooms  chopped  fine. 

Calf's  Brains  en  Matelotte. — Wash  the  brains  in  several 
waters,  remove  the  skin,  and  boil  them  in  salt  and  water  with 
a  little  vinegar  in  it  for  ten  minutes.  Take  them  out  and 
lay  them  in  cold  water  until  wanted.  Melt  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  mix  with  it  a  teaspoonful  of 


24  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

flour.  Add  three  button-onions  sliced,  a  teaspoonful  Wor- 
cestershire, a  clove,  a  bay-leaf,  half  a  pint  of  stock,  and  a 
wineglassful  of  Rhine  wine.  When  these  are  mixed  tho- 
roughly together  put  the  brains  with  them  and  let  them 
stew  twenty  minutes. 

Calf  s  Brains  Fried. — Prepare  the  brains  as  in  the  forego- 
ing receipt.  Cut  them  into  slices,  dip  them  in  egg-batter, 
roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  or  butter;  garnish  with 
lried  parsley. 

Calf  s  Brains  and  Tongue. — Prepare  the  brains  as  hereto- 
fore recommended,  and  chop  them.  Put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Skin  and  trim  the  boiled  tongue,  place  it  in  the  middle  of 
the  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  and  brains  round  it,  and  send 
to  table. 

Stewed  Sweet-Breads. — Soak  two  sweet-breads  in  cold 
water  for  one  hour;  change  the  water  twice;  put  them  in 
boiling  water  ten  minutes  till  they  are  firm,  then  take  them 
out  and  place  them  in  cold  water  until  wanted. 

Place  them  in  a  stew-pan,  cover  them  with  stock,  and 
simmer  nearly  an  hour;  take  them  out,  place  them  on  a  hot 
dish,  remove  the  gravy  from  the  fire  a  minute,  and  add  to  it 
gradually  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream;  put  this  over  a  fire  till  the  sauce  thickens,  but  do  not 
let  it  boil.  Before  serving  add  the  jnice  of  a  lemon,  pour  the 
sauce  around  the  sweet-breads,  and  send  to  table  with  a  dish 
of  green  peas. 

They  may  be  cut  up  and  fried  after  dipping  in  egg  and 
rolled  in  crumbs. 

Sweet-breads  are  very  nice  broiled  and  served  with  Maitre 
d'Horel  butter  ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

Pork  Chops,  Tomato  Sauce. — Broil  three  nice  pork  chops, 
and  when  well  done  sprinkle  them  with  pepper  and  salt, 
place  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce  poured 
around  them. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  15 

Tomato  Sauce. — Stew  half  a  dozen  tomatoes  in  a  pint  of 
stock,  with  a  slice  of  ham  cut  into  dice,  a  bay-leaf,  a  blade 
of  mace,  three  drops  of  tabasco  pepper-sauce,  and  three 
small  pickled  onions;  stir  the  whole  over  a  gentle  fire  until 
done,  then  press  them  through  a  sieve,  add  salt,  and  put  the 
sauce  again  upon  the  fire  till  it  is  very  hot. 

Pork  tenderloin  baked  or  broiled  is  acceptable  with  sauce 
Robert. 

Sauce  Robert. — Slice  two  onions,  and  fry  them  in  butter 
until  they  begin  to  turn  yellow;  pour  over  them  as  much 
brown  gravy  as  will  cover  them;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
French  or  German  mustard  (do  not  use  English  mustard), 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  salt-spoonful  of  pepper.  Simmer 
very  gently,  adding  more  gravy,  if  necessary,  till  the  onions 
are  tender.  Rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve.  Mix  with  the 
pulp  a  very  little  more  stock  or  gravy,  and  boil  once.  This  is 
a  simple  recipe,  and  one  that  any  housekeeper  can  easily 
make. 

Pork  Sausages. — The  most  wholesome  way  to  cook  sausa- 
ges is  to  bake  them.  Place  them  in  a  baking-pan  in  a  single 
layer,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven;  turn  them  over  when 
they  are  half  done,  that  they  may  be  equally  browned  all 
over.  Send  to  table  with  pieces  of  toast  between  each  sau- 
sage. Cut  the  toast  about  the  same  size  as  the  sausage,  and 
moisten  it  with  a  very  li t  tie  of  the  sausnge-fat. 

They  make  a  nice  entree  by  placing  them  on  a  mound  of 
mashed  potatoes  and  served  with  apple-sauce,  or  small  apple- 
fritters  neatly  arranged  round  them. 

About  the  best  sausages  that  come  to  the  New  York  market 
are  the  Deerfoot  Farm  sausages;  fancy  grocers  retail  them 
for  about  twenty  cents  a  pound.  Split  them  in  two  and 
broil  them,  and  send  to  table  with  Boston  brown-bread  toast, 
buttered.     Use  your  sausage-fat  for  frying  hash,  etc. 

Breast  of  Mutton  with  Peas. — Cut  up  two  pounds  of  the 
breast  of  mutton  into  square  pieces;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  an  ounc3  of  butter,  and  brown  them  nicely;  then  cover 


26  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

with  hot  water  and  stew  for  an  hour.  Take  the  meat  from 
the  pan  and  skim  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy  ;  place  the  meat 
in  a  clean  saucepan  with  one  onion  sliced,  a  bouquet  of  herbs, 
pepper  and  salt;  pour  in  the  gravy,  and  stew  for  one  hour;  add 
a  quart  of  young  peas,  remove  the  herbs,  simmer  fifteen  min- 
utes, and  serve. 

String  beans  cut  into  dice,  or  boiled  macaroni,  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  peas. 

Curry  of  Mutton. — Put  six  button-onions,  cut  fine,  and  an 
ounce  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  of  curry-pow- 
der, a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  half  a 
pint  of  cream  ;  stir  until  smooth.  Remove  the  bones  from 
two  pounds  of  mutton,  cut  it  into  neat  pieces,  and  fry  a  light 
brown  ;  put  the  meat  into  a  saucepan,  pour  the  sauce  over  it, 
and  boil  gently  one  hour  and  a  half.  Place  the  meat  on  a 
hot  dish  and  arrange  a  border  of  broiled  rice  neatly  round  it. 

Cold  boiled  mutton  cut  into  slices  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  raw  meat. 

Veal  may  be  used  instead  of  mutton. 

Mutton  Hash  with  Poached  Eggs. — Take  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  the  remains  of  roast  mutton,  chop  it  up  fine,  and  put 
it  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  cupful  of  mutton  gravy  or  stock; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  Barlow's  prepared  flour,  and  let  the  meat  heat 
gradually  until  hot.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  Simmer  tAventy  min- 
utes, and  serve  with  poached  eggs  placed  neatly  round  the  dish. 

A  spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  may  be  added  to  the 
dish,  if  desired. 

Eagout  of  Mutton. — Slice  two  turnips,  two  carrots,  and 
two  onions  ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  of 
butter,  and  brown  them.  Dust  in  a  little  flour  and  stir  the 
whole  to  prevent  browning  too  quickly,  and  turn  them  out 
upon  a  hot  dish  until  wanted. 

Cut  up  cold  roast  mutton  into  square  pieces,  and  brown 
them  on  each  side  in  the  same  pan  in  which  you  browned 
your  vegetables  ;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  hot  water,  salt  and 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  27 

pepper,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  the  sliced  vegetables. 
Stew  gently  until  the  vegetables  are  tender  ;  arrange  the 
vegetables  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  with  the  meat  as  a  bor- 
der; pour  the  sauce  over  all,  and  serve. 

Mutton  Pie. — Cut  into  square  pieces  about  two  pounds  of 
cold  roast  or  boiled  mutton;  trim  off  a  portion  of  the  fat;  quar- 
ter three  kidneys;  put  the  meat  into  a  pie  dish,  season  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  herbs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  half  an  onion  minced  ; 
add  half  a  pint  of  light-  stock  or  water,  a  wineglassful  of  port 
wine;  cover  the  dish  with  puff  paste,  brush  an  egg  over  it,  and 
bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Cold  lamb  makes  a  very  nice  pie. 

Veal  Croquettes. — Kemove  the  gristle,  skin,  and  sinews 
from  a  pound  of  cold  veal;  mince  it  finely  with  four  ounces  of 
cold  boiled  beef  or  calf's  tongue ;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  nutmeg.  Put  i'lto  a  saucepan  an  ounce  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  a  wineglassful  of  cream;  add  the  minced  meat,  and 
stir  for  twenty  minutes  over  a  slow  fire.  (If  too  dry  moisten 
with  stock.)  Turn  the  preparation  upon  a  round  pie-board; 
spread  it  to  a  smooth  layer  about  an  inch  thick,  and  set  it  in 
the  ice-box  to  get  cold  and  stiff.  It  must  then  be  divided 
into  about  two  dozen  pieces,  each  piece  rolled  into  the  form 
of  a  cork  or  round  ball  over  bread-crumbs,  then  dipped  in 
beaten  egg  and  again  rolled  in  crumbs.  Handle  carefully  so 
as  not  to  break  them.     Fry  in  boiling  fat. 

Fricassee  of  Veal. — Take  two  pounds  of  lean  veal  free  from 
skin  and  bone,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  convenient  for  serving  ; 
fry  them  in  melted  butter  until  the  flesh  is  firm  without 
having  acquired  any  color ;  dredge  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
upon  them,  add  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  and  gradually  as 
much  boiling  veal-stock  as  will  cover  t'ie  meat ;  simmer 
until  tender.  Take  out  the  meat  and  add  to  the  gravy  a  gill 
of  boiling  cream,  salt,  cayenne,  and  a  pinch  of  powdered  mace. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a  bowl  ;  add  gradually  a  little 
of  the  sauce  (after  it  has  cooled  a  few  minutes),  then  add  it 


28  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

carefully  to  the  remainder.  Return  the  meat  to  the  sauce, 
and  let  the  saucepan  remain  near  the  fire  until  the  eggs  are 
set.     Add  the  juice  of  halt*  a  lemon  and  serve  immediately. 

Fricassee  of  Lamb. — Take  a  breast  of  lamb  and  cut  it  into 
pieces  about  an  inch  and  a  half  square  ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  quartered  onion, 
three  cloves,  a  bay-leaf,  and  three  ounces  of  bu'ter.  Cover 
the  saucepan  closely,  and  let  it  steam  gently  for  half  an  hour, 
shaking  it  occasionally  to  prevent  sticking.  Add  a  pint  of 
boiling  water ;  cover  closely  once  more  and  boil  gently  for 
one  hour  ;  then  strain  the  sauce  and  thicken  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  (mix  the  flour  smoothly  with  a  little  cold 
water  before  adding  it  to  the  sauce),  boil  a  moment  longer, 
and  serve. 

A  tablespoonf ul  of  very  small  A.  G-.  caj^ers  may  be  added 
before  serving. 

Breast  of  Lamb  with  Asparagus  Tops. — Remove  the  skin 
and  part  of  the  fat  from  a  breasi  of  lamb,  and  cut  it  into  neat 
pieces  ;  dredge  a  little  flour  over  them,  and  place  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter ;  let  them  remain  until 
nicely  browned  ;  cover  the  meat  with  warm  water,  add  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  two  button  onions;  simmer  until  the  meat 
is  cooked;  skim  off  the  fat,  take  out  the  onions  and  parsley, 
and  mince  the  latter  finely  ;  return  it  to  the  gravy  with  a 
pint  of  the  tops  of  boiled  asparagus,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
simmer  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  serve.  Canned  asparagus 
may  be  used  when  the  fresh  vegetable  is  out  of  season. 

Fricassee  of  Chicken. — Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  chicken, 
cut  it  into  joints,  make  a  gravy  by  simmering  the  trimmings 
in  stock  enough  to  cover  them,  with  one  onion,  stock  with 
three  cloves,  a  bouquet  of  herbs,-  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer 
the  gravy  for  one  hour  ;  strain  and  thicken  a  cupful  of  it 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  ;  let  this  boil,  then  put  in  the 
chicken.  Draw  the  sauce-pan  from  the  fire  a  few  minutes, 
mix  a  little  of  the  sauce  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  a  cupful  of  cream.     Add  this  last  mixture  to  the  sauce- 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  29 

pan,  let  it  get  hot,  but  on  no  account  allow  it  to  boil,  or  the 
eggs  will  curdle.  Serve  with  the  sauce  poured  over  the 
chicken,  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  on  top. 

Fried  Chicken. — Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  chicken,  place 
it  in  a  pan,  and  simmer  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  finely- 
chopped  onion,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt  and  pepper  ;  let 
them  simmer  nearly  half  an  hour  ;  take  the  pieces  out  and 
dredge  them  in  flour,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat;  turn  the  pieces 
over  while  cooking,  and  fry  a  deep  brown. 

Make  a  dressing  of  flour,  mixed  smoothly  in  a  cupful  of 
cold  milk  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Add  to  the  pan  that 
the  chicken  simmered  in,  boil  gently,  strain  over  the  chicken 
and  serve. 

Chicken  with  Rice  a  la  Maryland. — Cut  up  a  chicken  into 
joints,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  heart,  gizzard,  and 
liver,  and  a  slice  or  two  of  bacon;  cover  with  warm  water,  and 
boil  gently  until  the  chicken  is  quite  tender  ;  then  take  the 
meat  out  of  the  stew-pan,  and  set  it  where  it  will  be  kept 
warm;  wash  half  a  pint  of  rice,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  season 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  done  place  the  rice 
upon  a  dish,  lay  the  chicken  on  top,  and  if  too  dry  brush  a 
little  melted  butter  over  it. 

Chicken  Croquettes.— Pound  the  white  meat  of  a  cold 
chicken  with  a  cold  boiled  sweetbread  in  a  mortar  ;  add  a 
little  salt,  beat  up  an  egg  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a 
wineglassful  of  cream;  mix  the  pounded  meat  with  the 
batter,  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  simmer  long  enough  to  ab- 
sorb the  moisture,  stirring  all  the  time;  then  turn  it  into  a 
flat  dish,  and  set  it  in  the  ice-box  to  get  cold  and  stiff,  roll  it 
into  balls  or  cones,  dip  in  egg-batter,  then  roll  them  in 
crumbs  or  cracker-dust  and  fry  in  boiling  fat. 

Chicken  a  l'ltalienne.— Take  half  a  pound  of  La  Favorita 
macaroni,  and  boil  it  in  water  with  a  lump  of  butter.  When 
it  has  boiled  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  drain  off  the  water  and 
cover  the  macaroni  with  milk  ;  add  salt  and  pepper  and  a 


30  Valuable  Cooking  Beceipts. 

whole  onion,  stock  with  a  few  cloves  ;  boil  until  the  macaroni 
is  tender  but  unbroken. 

Boil  a  chicken  in  the  usual  manner,  cut  it  up  and  lay  it 
on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  macaroni  over  it  (remove  the  onio:i), 
grate  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  dish, 
and  brown  it  in  the  oven  or  with  a  salamander. 

Chicken  Patties. — Pick  the  meat  from  a  cold  chicken,  and 
cut  it  up  into  small  dice  ;  place  it  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  cup- 
ful of  chicken  stock,  a  cupful  of  cream,  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  rolled  in  flour,  suit  and  pepper,  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg  and  lemon-peel ;  simmer  gently  until  it 
begins  to  thicken,  remove  the  dish  from  the  lire  a  few 
minutes  to  cool ;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  a  half 
teaspoonful  flour,  moistened  in  milk  or  cream,  and  add  to  the 
sauce-pan,  mix  thoroughly,  and  draw  towards  the  fire  (but 
do  not  let  it  boil)  until  it  thickens  ;  before  serving  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Fill  your  patty-shells  with  the  mixture,  one  for  each  per- 
son, and  serve  (see  Oyster  Patties  for  patty- shells). 

Chicken  Pie. — Line  the  sides  of  a  pie-dish  with  a  good  puff 
paste.  Have  your  chicken  cooked  as  for  a  fricassee,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  When  they 
are  nearly  cooked  lay  them  in  a  pie-dish  with  half  a  pound 
of  salt  pork  cut  into  inch  squares,  and  some  of  the  paste  cut 
into  inch  and  a  half  pieces  ;  pour  in  a  part  of  the  chicken 
gravy,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  and  cover  the  dish  with  the 
paste  cover.  Cut  a  hole  the  size  of  a  dollar  in  the  cover,  and 
cover  it  with  a  piece  of  dough  twice  the  size  of  the  hole 
(when  baked  remove  this  piece  occasionally  and  examine  the 
interior),  brush  egg  over  the  pie,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Should  the  pie  become  dry  pour  in  more  of  the  gravy. 
Pigeon  Pie  may  be  made  by  the  above  recipe. 

Chicken  Panada  (Invalid  cookery). — Take  a  fresh  young 
chicken  and  boil  it  until  quite  tender,  in  sufficient  water  to 
cover  it.  Strip  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  pound  in  a 
mortar  until  quite  smooth,  with  a  little  of  the  liquor  it  was 


Valuable  CooMng  Receipts.  31 

boiled  in ;  add  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  very  little  grated 
lemon-peel.  Boil  this  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  with  suffi- 
cient liquid  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  custard. 

Chicken  with  Dumplings. — Disjoint  one  chicken,  and  put 
to  boil  in  cold  water  until  done.  Make  dumplings  with 
one  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  yeast-powder,  and 
same  quantity  of  salt.  Wet  this  mixture  with  milk  and  put 
with  chicken  until  boiled.  Take  them  out  and  fry  in  hot 
fat  until  brown  ;  do  same  with  chicken  afterwards.  Use 
water  in  which  chicken  was  boiled  to  make  gravy. 

M.   G.  H. 

Chicken  Toast. — Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  chicken  and 
chop  up  fine,  put  in  a  sauce-pan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  just  a  little  onion,  with  a  lump  of  butter  ;  break  over 
the  meat  two  or  three  raw  eggs ;  stir  all  together,  pour  it 
upon  nicely-buttered  toast,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Liver  en  Brochette. — Wash  the  livers  in  cold 
water,  dry  them  on  a  towel,  and  cut  them  in  two;  cut  slices 
of  bacon  into  pieces  about  the  same  size,  and  put  them  on  a 
skewer  alternately,  and  broil.  When  done  brush  over  them 
a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  lemon-juice,  pepper  and  salt. 

Braise  of  Duck  with  Turnips. — Prepare  a  domestic  duck  as 
for  roasting.  Line  a  small  pan,  just  large  enough  for  the 
duck,  with  slices  of  bacon;  strew  over  the  bottom  a  little  pars- 
ley, powdered  herbs,  and  lemon-peel ;  lay  in  the  duck,  and 
add  a  carrot  cut  into  strips,  an  onion  stock  with  a  few  cloves, 
and  a  dozen  whole  peppers  ;  cover  with  stock  and  add  a  table 
spoonful  of  strong  vinegar  ;  baste  frequently  and  simmer  until 
done.  Fry  some  slices  of  turnip  in  butter  to  a  light  brown, 
drain  and  add  them  to  the  stew-pan  after  removing  the  duck, 
which  should  be  kept  hot.  When  the  turnips  are  tender  re- 
move them,  strain  the  gravy,  thickening  if  necessary  with  a 
little  flour  or  arrowroot ;  put  the  duck  on  a  dish,  throw 
the  hot  gravy  over  it,  and  garnish  with  the  turnips. 

Braise  of  Duck  with  Peas. — Prepare  and  cook  a  duck  as  in 
the  above   receipt,   using  green  peas  instead  of  carrots  and 


32  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts* 

onion,  and  fry  two  onions  in  butter  till  they  are  of  a  pale 
brown;  boil  them  to  a  thick  sauce  with  some  of  the  duck 
gravy;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with  the  peas 
around  the  duck  and  the  gravy  thrown  over. 

Salmi  of  Wild  Duck. — Cut  up  the  remains  of  two  roast,  un- 
derdone wild  d  ticks  into  neat  pieces  and  set  them  aside.  Take 
the  boi.es,  giblets,  and  ragged  pieces,  and  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  a  minced  onion  or  shallot,  a  saltspoonful  salt; 
and  a  very  little  Cayenne  ;  add  a  pint  of  stock  and  a  glass 
of  port  wine,  boil  gently  half  an  hour,  strain  and  thicken 
the  sauce  with  a  teaspoonful  of  prepared  brown  flour.  Put 
the  pieces  of  duck  in  a  stew-pan,  pour  the  sauce  over  them, 
and  simmer  until  quite  hot.  Add  the  juice  of  a  sour  orange 
to  the  dish  and  serve.  A  garnish  of  olives  is  considered  an 
improvement  by  some.  Soak  the  olives  in  cold  water  one 
hour  ;  remove  the  stones  with  a  small  vegetable-cutter  and 
add  them  to  the  sauce,  before  taking  the  dish  from  the 
fire. 

Salmi  of  Partridge,  Hunter's  Style. — Take  two  cold  roast 
partridges,  cut  them  into  joints,  and  lay  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  gill  of  Bordeaux  or  port,  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  salt,  and  a  little  Cay- 
enne ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour  if  desired;  simmer  gently 
until  very  hot  and  serve. 

Venison  Epicurean. — Cut  a  steak  from  the  leg  or  a  chop 
from  the  loin  of  venison,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  thick. 
Put  a  walnut  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  into  a  chafing-dish  ; 
light  the  spirit-lamp  under  it,  and  when  the  butter  melts 
put  in  the  chop  or  steak;  let  it  cook  on  one  side  a  few  min- 
utes, then  turn  it  over,  and  add  a  wineglassful  of  sherry  or 
port  and  a  tablespoonful  of  currant- jelly.  Simmer  gently 
about  seven  minutes  if  it  is  to  be  eaten  rare,  and  allow  twelve 
minutes  cooking  if  required  well  done. 

Hot  plates  and  a  glass  of  Mr.  Clair's  old  East  India  Madeira 
are  all  that  is  requisite  to  make  the  feast  Apician  in  character. 

Venison  Chops,  broiled  and  served  with  currant-jelly,  are 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  83 

not  to  bo  despised.     Trim  the  ends  as  you  would  a  French 
lamb-chop. 

Breast  of  Venison  may  be  dressed  according  to  the  receipt 
given  for  breast  of  mutton.     - 

Venison  Patties. — Make  a  nicely-flavored  mince  of  the  re- 
mains of  cold  roast  venison  ;  moisten  it  with  a  little  sherry 
or  gravy,  and  warm  it  in  a  saucepan  ;  fill  the  patty-shells  with 
the  meat  and  serve.     (See  oyster  patty  for  patty-shells.) 

Broiled  Tripe. — Cut  up  honeycomb  tripe  into  pieces  of  three 
to  four  inches  wide  ;  rub  a  little  oil  or  melted  butter  over 
them,  dredge  them  in  flour,  and  broil  over  a  charcoal  fire  ; 
squeeze  a  little  lemon-juice  over  each  piece,  and  serve. 

Never  broil  tripe  over  a  hard-coal  fire  ;  the  gases  arising 
from  the  coal  spoil  the  flavor  of  the  tripe,  making  it  indi- 
gestible and  unpalatable. 

Tripe  Lyonnaise. — Take  a  pound  of  cold  boiled  tripe  and 
cut  it  into  pieces  an  inch  square.  Dissolve  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter in  a  frying-pan,  add  a  sliced  onion  to  it,  and  fry  until  it 
is  tender.  Put  the  pieces  of  tripe  with  the  onion,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  vinegar,  salt, 
and  a  little  cayenne  ;  heat  all  gently  together.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  a  platter  with  tomato-sauce,  add  the  tripe  and 
serve. 

Tripe  Fricassee. — Cut  up  the  tripe  into  square  pieces;  put 
them  into  a  stew-j^an  with  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bouquet  of  herbs, 
an  onion  quartered,  salt,  and  cayenne.  Cover  the  tripe  with 
Rhine  wine  or  water  and  a  little  vinegar ;  stew  for  one  hour. 
Strain  the  sauce  ;  put  the  tripe  and  sauce  in  a  clean  sauce- 
pan, with  a  walnut  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  gill  of  cream, 
a  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley.  Simmer  ten  minutes, 
squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  serve. 

Pork  and  Beans. — Wash  a  quart  of  beans  thoroughly  ;  cover 
them  with  cold  water  and  let  them  soak  over-night.  Change 
the  water  in  the  morning  onqe  or  twice.     Then  put  them  in 


34  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

a  pot  and  simmer  slowly  for  three  hours  until  they  begin  to 
crack  open  ;  pour  them  into  a  colander  to  drain  off  all  the 
water.  Heat  an  earthen  bean-pot  with  hot  water,  and  wipe 
it  dry  ;  place  a  small  piece  of  pork  on  the  bottom  of  the  pot 
and  pour  in  the  beans.  Cut  the  rind  of  another  piece  of 
pork  into  strips,  and  sink  it  into  the  beans,  leaving  only 
the  rind  of  the  pork  exposed  at  the  top.  Dissolve  a  table- 
spoonful  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  and  add  it  to  the  pot;  set  it 
in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  for  three  or  four  hours,  or  place 
the  pot  in  a  baker's  oven  over-night,  instructing  the  baker  to 
add  a  little  water  to  the  pot  should  the  beans  become  dry. 
Serve  with  Boston  brown  bread. 

Baked  Macaroni. — For  a  small  dish  one-half  pound  maca- 
roni, boiled  until  soft,  with  a  little  salt  in  the  water.  Drain 
through  a  colander ;  then  put  in  the  baking-dish,  with  one 
pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  a  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  grated  cheese  (enough  to  suit  taste),  and  distribute 
over  top.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.  M.  G.  h. 

Rice  Croquettes. — Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Carolina 
"head "rice,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powder- 
ed sugar,  a  walnut  of  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  best  ex- 
tract of  "\anilla  into  a  saucepan;  simmer  gently  until  the 
rice  is  tender  and  the  milk  absorbed.  It  must  be  boiled  until 
thick  and  dry,  or  it  will  be  difficult  to  mould  it  into  croquettes. 
Beat  it  thoroughly  for  three  or  four  minutes  ;  turn  it  out  on 
a  flat  tin,  and  when  cold  and  stiff  form  it  into  balls  or  cones ; 
dip  these  in  beaten  eggf  roll  lightly  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
hot  fat  or  butter. 


VEGETABLE  ENTREES. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. — Take  six  ripe  tomatoes  of  equal  size ; 
cut  off  the  tops  and  scoop  out  the  insides  ;  press  the  pulp 
through  a  sieve  and  mix  with  it  a  little  salt  and  cayenne, 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  35 

two  ounces  of  butter  broken  into  little  pieces,  and  two  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs  ;  fill  the  tomatoes  with 
the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Before  serving 
them  brown  the  stuffing  by  holding  a  salamander  or  a  small 
shovel  containing  hot  coals  over  them. 

Any  good  force-meat  may  be  used  to  stuff  tomatoes  ;  the 
remains  of  game  or  poultry  minced,  and  mixed  with  herbs 
and  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  and  bound  together  with  yolk 
of  egg,  will  suit  the  most  fastidious. 

Stuffed  Egg-Plant. — Cut  the  egg-plant  in  two ;  scrape  out  all 
the  inside  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  minced  ham  ; 
cover  with  water  and  boil  until  soft ;  drain  off  the  water  ; 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  grated  crumbs,  tablespoonful  butter, 
half  a  minced  onion,  salt,  and  pepper  ;  stuff  each  half  of  the 
hull  with  the  mixture  ;  add  a  small  lump  of  butter  to  each 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Stuffed  Egg-Plant,  No.  2.— Pare  off  the  purple  rind  of  the 
egg-plant  and  quarter  it ;  round  off  the  edges  as  neatly  as  pos- 
sible, then  place  them  in  salt  and  water  for  an  hour.  Take 
them  out  of  the  water,  scrape  out  the  centre,  and  mix  it  with 
a  force-meat  of  veal,  bread-crumbs,  seasoning,  and  yolk  of 
egg ;  put  the  mixture  in  the  hollow  egg-plant,  with  a  lump 
of  butter  upon  the  top  of  each,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

Stuffed  Potatoes. — Take  a  number  of  firm-skin  potatoes  of 
equal  size  ;  clean  them  well  and  bake  them.  When  done 
cut  off  a  piece  of  the  end  of  each  potato  and  scoop  out  as 
much  of  the  inside  as  can  be  obtained  without  injury  to  the 
skin  ;  mash  it  with  cream  and  butter ;  add  a  little  salt ;  set 
the  dish  on  the  range  to  keep  hot.  Take  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  whip  them  to  a  froth,  and  add  to  the  potatoes  ;  mix  all 
together  ;  simmer  until  quite  hot ;  fill  up  the  skins  with  the 
potato  paste  ;  fasten  the  covers  with  white  of  egg,  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes. 

Potato  Balls. — Boil  a  small  potful  of  potatoes  ;  wash  them 
well,  and  mix  with  them  butter,  salt,  chopped  parsley  or 
chives,  grated  nutmeg,  and  two  raw  eggs  ;  work  the  paste  Into 


36  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

small  balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker-dust  or  flour, 
and  fry. 

Potato  Cake. — Take  half  a  pound  of  dry  mealy  potatoes, 
either  baked  or  boiled  ;  mash  them  until  they  are  free  from 
lumps  ;  mix  with  them  three  ounces  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  as  much  lukewarm  milk  and  butter  as  will  make  a 
smooth,  firm  dough  ;  add  one  egg  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
Koyal  Baking  Powder.  Koll  the  paste  out  with  a  rolling- 
pin  till  it  is  nearly  two  inches  thick ;  dredge  a  little  flour 
over  it,  and  cut  it  out  the  exact  size  of  the  frying-pan. 
Kub  the  pan  over  with  butter  ;  lay  the  cake  carefully  into 
it ;  cover  with  a  plate  ;  shake  it  every  now  and  then  to  pre- 
vent it  burning  ;  when  it  is  half  done  on  one  side  turn  it  over 
carefully  on  the  other.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  plenty  of 
good  fresh  butter. 

Cold  potatoes,  if  dry  and  mealy,  may  be  warmed  up  in  this 
manner. 

Sweet  potatoes  make  very  good  potato  cake. 

Potato  Fritters. — Burst  open  four  nicely-baked  potatoes  ; 
scoop  out  the  insides  with  a  spoon,  and  mix  with  them  a 
wineglassful  of  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  Thurber's  best  extract  vanilla,  and  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  four  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  beat  the 
batter  for  several  minutes  until  it  is  quite  smooth,  and  drop 
large  tablespoonf  uls  of  the  mixture  into  boiling  fat,  and  fry  a 
light  brown ;  dust  powdered  sugar  over  them,  and  send  to 
table. 

Parsnip  Fritters. — Boil  four  good-sized  parsnips  in  salted 
water  until  tender;  drain  them,  beat  them  to  a  pulp,  and 
squeeze  the  water  from  them  as  much  as  possible  ;  bind  them 
together  with  a  beaten  egg  and  a  little  flour.  Shape  them 
into  cakes,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Oyster-Plant  Croquettes. — Wash,  scrape,  and  boil  the  oyster- 
plant  till  tender  ;  rub  it  through  a  colander,  and  mix  with 
the  pulp  a  little  butter,   cream,  salt,  cayenne,  and  lemon- 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  37 

juice  ;  mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly  together  to  a  smooth 
paste,  and  set  the  dish  in  the  icebox  to  get  cold  ;  then  shape 
it  into  small  cones,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  crumbs, 
and  fry  crisp  and  brown. 

Fritters. — The  following  receipt  will  serve  for' many  kinds 
of  fruit  or  vegetable  fritters  :  Make  a  batter  of  ten  ounces  of 
flour,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  two  ounces  of  butter ;  sweeten 
and  flavor  to  taste ;  add  a  glass  of  brandy,  rum,  or  sherry  ; 
stir  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  ;  dip  the  fruit  in  the 
batter,  and  fry.  Small  fruit  and  vegetables  should  be  mixed 
with  the  battel. 

Arrowroot  for  Batters  and  Sauces. — Arrowroot  may  be  used 
to  thicken  batters,  sauces,  etc.,  for  those  who  object  to  butter, 
as  invalids  very  often  do.  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  Beatty's 
Bermuda  Arrowroot  smoothly  with  a  little  cold  water,  and 
stir  it  into  a  pint  of  the  batter  or  sauce. 

Omelettes. — Numerous  kinds  of  omelettes  may  be  served  as 
the  last  entree,  and,  if  properly  made,  they  generally  give  satis- 
faction. As  a  rule  an  omelette  is  a  wholesome,  inexpensive 
dish,  but  yet  one  in  the  preparation  of  which  cooks  frequently 
fail  owing  to  ignorance  of  detail.  The  flavoring  and  the 
ingredients  used  may  be  varied  indefinitely,  but  the  process 
is  always  the  same.  In  making  an  omelette  care  should  be 
taken  that  the  frying-pan  is  hot -and  dry.  The  best  way  to 
ensure  this  is  to  put  a  small  quantity  of  fat  into  the  pan,  let 
it  simmer  a  few  minutes,  then  pour' it  out ;  wipe  the  pan  dry 
with  a  towel  and  put  in  a  little  fresh  fat,  in  which  the  ome- 
lette should  be  fried  ;  care  should  be  taken  that  the  fat  does 
not  burn,  thereby  spoiling  the  color  of  the  omelette. 

It  is  better  to  make  two  or  three  small  omelettes  than  one 
large  one.  The  eggs  should  be  but  slightly  beaten,  just  long 
enough  to  mix  them,  and  no  more  ;  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  to 
every  two  eggs  will  be  found  an  improvement.  Salt  mixed  with 
the  eggs  prevents  them  from  rising  and  gives  the  omelette  a 
flabby   appearance ;   without   salt   your  omelette  will  taste 


38  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

insipid  ;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  the  omelette  just  before  turn- 
ing out  on  the  dish. 

Oyster  Omelette. — Stew  six  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  ;  re- 
move the  oysters  and  thicken  the  liquid  with  butter  rolled  in 
flour  ;  season  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  mix  with  it  a  teaspoon- 
ful  chopped  parsley.  Chop  up  the  oysters  and  add  them  to 
the  sauce  ;  simmer  gently  until  the  sauce  thickens.  Beat 
three  eggs  lightly  with  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  cream, 
and  fry  until  they  are  delicately  set ;  before  folding  over  put 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  mixture  in  the  centre  ;  turn  it  out 
carefully  on  a  hot  dish,  with  the  balance  of  the  sauce  round 
it,  and  serve  immediately. 

If  small  oysters  are  used  put  them  in  the  centre  of  the 
omelette,  whole,  fold  and  serve  with  sauce  round  it. 

Rum  Omelette. — Fry  an  omelette  in  the  usual  way ;  fold  it 
with  a  little  salt,  and  turn  it  out  on  a  hot  dish  ;  dust  sugar 
over  it,  and  singe  the  sugar  into  stripes  with  a  hot  iron  rod  ; 
pour  a  wineglassful  of  warm  rum  round  the  omelette,  set  a 
light  to  it,  and  send  to  table  flaming. 

Omelette  Souffle. — Break  six  eggs  into  separate  cups  ;  beat 
four  of  the  yolks,  and  mix  with  them  a  teaspoonfnl  of  flour, 
three  tablespoonful s  of  powdered  sugar,  very  little  salt,  and 
any  flavoring  extract  that  maybe  preferred.  Whisk  the  white 
of  the  six  eggs  to  a  firm  froth  ;  mix  them  lightly  with  the 
yolks  ;  pour  the  mixture  into  a  greased  pan  or  dish,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  When  it  is  well  risen  and  lightly  browned 
on  the  top  it  is  done;  take  it  out  of  the  oven,  dust  a  little 
powdered  sugar  over  it  carefully,  and  send  to  table  imme- 
diately. It  must  be  served  in  the  same  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked. 

Welsh  Rarebit. — Select  the  richest  and  best  American  fac- 
tory cheese — the  milder  it  is  the  better,  as  the  melting  brings 
out  the  strength.  To  make  five  rarebits  take  one  pound  of 
cheese,  grate  it,  and  put  it  in  a  tin  or  porcelain-lined  saucepan  ; 
add  ale  enough  to  thin  the  cheese  sufficiently,  say  about  a 
w  ineglassful  to  each  rarebit ;  stir  until  all  is  melted.     Have  a 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  39 

slice  of  toast  ready  for  each  rarebit  (crusts  trimmed) ;  put  a 
slice  on  each  plate,  and  pour  cheese  enough  over  each  piece  to 
cover  it.     Eat  while  hot. 

To  make  a  «  Golden  Buck."— A  "  Golden  Buck  "  is  merely 
the  addition  of  a  poached  egg,  which  is  put  carefully  on  the 
top  of  the  rarebit. 

"Yorkshire  Rarebit." — This  is  the  same  as  a  "Golden 
Buck,"  only  it  has  two  thin  slices  of  broiled  bacon  on  the  top. 
—  George  Browne,  in  Thurber's  Epicure, 

[See  Vegetables,  page  90.] 


BOASTING, 


Roasting  is  an  excellent  method  of  rendering  food  whole- 
some and  nourishing.  Without  making  any  great  change  in 
the  chemical  properties  of  meat  it  renders  it  more  tender  and 
highly  flavored,  while  there  is  not  so  much  waste  of  its  nutri- 
tive juices  as  in  baking.  But  where  can  the  average  American 
get  a  slice  of  roast  beef  ?  Our  homes  are  not  provided  with 
spits,  bottle-jacks,  Dutch  ovens,  and  the  like  ;  and  as  a  very 
sensible  writer  in  the  New  York  Times  stated,  "ninety- 
nine  roasts  in  the  United  States  are  baked  in  ovens,  and 
there  is  no  help  for  it."  I  can  see  no  possible  way  out  of  the 
dilemma  but  to  submit  gracefully  to  baked  meats  for  ever. 
The  leading  hotels  and  restaurants  overcome  the  difficulty 
by  purchasing  the  very  best  of  beef,  and  keeping  it  from 
eight  to  fifteen  days  in  their  ice-houses.  Thus  the  excellent 
quality  of  the  beef  overcomes,  in  a  measure,  the  bad  effects 
created  by  the  superheated  volatile  portions  that  escape  from 
the  beef  during  the  process  of  baking. 

No  finer,  better,  or  sweeter  piece  of  meat  was  ever  tasted, 
either  in  England  or  America,  than  the  Astor  House  roast 
beef  ;  and  the  secret  is  in  securing  the  best  quality,  and  tak- 
ing proper  care  of  it  before  submitting  it  to  the  oven. 

Roast  Beef. — The  best  roasting-pieces  are  the  fore  and  mid- 
dle ribs  and  the  sirloin.     The  chuck-ribs,  although  cheaper, 


40  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

w 

are  not  as  profitable  to  families,  there  being  too  much  waste 
in  the  carving  of  them.  The  ends  of  the  ribs  should  be  re- 
moved from  the  flank,  and  the  latter  folded  under  the  beef 
and  securely  fastened  with  skewers.  Rub  a  little  salt  into 
the  fat  part ;  place  the  meat  in  the  dripping-pan  with  a  pint 
of  stock  or  water ;  baste  freely,  and  dredge  with  flour  half 
an  hour  before  taking  the  joint  from  the  oven. 

Should  the  oven  be  very  hot  place  a  buttered  paper  over 
the  meat  to  prevent  it  scorching  while  yet  raw,  in  which  case 
it  will  need  very  little  basting ;  or  turn  the  rib  side  up  to- 
wards the  fire  for  the  first  twenty  minutes.  The  time  it  will 
take  in  cooking  depends  entirely  upon  the  thickness  of  the 
joint  and  the  length  of  time  it  has  been  killed.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  gravy  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  prepared 
brown  flour  and  a  glass  of  sherry  to  the  remainder. 

Roast  Loin  of  Veal. — Make  an  incision  in  the  flank  or  skirt 
of  the  loin  of  veal,  and  into  the  cavity  thus  made,  just  over 
the  end  of  the  bone,  put  a  well-flavored  veal  force-meat.  Roll 
in  the  flank  to  cover  the  kidney-fat,  and  bind  it  firmly  with 
string  or  tape.  Place  a  few  small  veal  bones  with  a  few  as- 
sorted vegetables,  cut  up,  in  a  dripping-pan  ;  put  the  loin 
upon  this  bed,  add  half  a  pint  of  stock  or  water,  and  set  it  in 
the  oven  for  twenty  minutes ;  in  the  meantime  work  togeth- 
er a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter  ;  draw  the  joint  from  the  oven,  baste  it  with  the  flour 
and  butter,  return  it  to  the  oven  again,  and  baste  occasion- 
ally until  done. 

Veal  should  be  thoroughly  done.  When  it  is  under-done 
it  is  decidedly  indigestible  and  should  be  avoided. 

The  breast  of  veal  boned,  with  a  layer  of  force-meat  spread 
over  the  inside  and  rolled  and  tightly  bound,  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  loin  of  veal. 

% Mutton. — The  choicest  mutton  in  the  United  States  comes 
from  the  mountainous  regions  of  Pennsylvania.  The  ani- 
mals are  semi-domestic  and  almost  as  shy  and  as  timid  as  a 
deer.  In  1878  Col.  Duffy,  one  of  Pennsylvania's  fish  com- 
missioners, dined  a  party  of  English  gentlemen  on  mountain- 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  41 

mutton,  and  they  pronounced  it  the  finest-flavored  morsel  of 
venison  they  had  ever  eaten. 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton. — Take  a  leg  of  well-kept  mutton, 
rub  it  lightly  with  salt,  and  put  it  in  a  dripping-pan  with  a 
very  little  water ;  cut  a  potato  in  two  lengthwise,  and  set 
it  under  the  leg;  baste  with  a  little  good  dripping  at  first, 
and  when  within  twenty  minutes  of  being  done,  dredge  it 
with  flour  to  get  it  frothed.  Turn  the  joint  two  or  three 
times  while  cooking.  Time,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
the  pound. 

Loin  of  Mutton. — Follow  the  directions  given  for  roast  leg 
of  mutton,  but  trim  off  all  unnecessary  fat,  cover  the  joint 
with  paper  until  within  twenty  minutes  of  its  being  done, 
then  remove,  baste,  and  flour  slightly  ;  serve  with  currant-jel- 
ly. If  properly  cooked  and  served hot  it  is  a  royal  dish,  but 
if  the  fat  is  not  turned  to  account,  a  very  expensive  one. 

Lamb. — Put  a  four  or  five  pound  joint  of  lamb  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan with  a  gill  of  stock  or  water ;  salt  and  pepper ; 
roll  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  very  little  flour,  divide  it 
into  small  pieces,  and  add  it  here  and  there  upon  the 
meat ;  set  the  pan  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  baste  frequently 
until  done. 

Skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  serve  with  the  lamb  ;  or 
serve  mint-sauce  with  the  joint. 

Mint  Sauce. — Wash  the  sprigs  of  mint,  let  them  dry  on  a 
towel,  strip  off  the  leaves,  and  chop  them  very  fine  ;  put  in 
a  sauce-boat  with  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  four  lumps  of 
sugar;  let  it  stand  an  hour,  and  before  serving  stir  all  togeth- 
er. Mint  sauce,  if  bottled,  will  keep  for  some  time,  and  be 
just  as  good,  if  not  better,  than  it  was  the  first  day. 

Saddle  of  Lamb. — A  saddle  of  lamb  is  a  dainty  joint  for  a 
small  party.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it,  and  set  it  in 
the  dripping-pan,  with  a  few  small  pieces  of  butter  on  the 
meat;  baste  it  occasionally  with  tried-out  lamb-fat;  dredge 


42  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

a  little  flour  over  it  a  few  minutes  before  taking  from  the 
oven.  Serve  with  the  very  best  of  currant-jelly,  and  send  to 
table  with  it  a  few  choice  early  vegetables.  Mint-sauce  may 
be  served  with  the  joint,  but  in  a  very  mild  form. 

Pork. — Pork,  more  than  any  other  meat,  requires  to  be 
chosen  with  the  greatest  care.  The  pig,  from  its  gluttonous 
habits,  is  particularly  liable  to  disease;  and  if  killed  and 
eaten  when  in  an  unhealthy  condition,  those  who  partake  of 
it  will  probably  pay  dearly  for  their  indulgence.  Dairy-fed 
pork  is  the  best;  and  knowing  this  fact,  a  number  of  our 
first-class  hotels  raise  their  own  pork  on  farms  connected 
with  their  country  residences.  Among  them  may  be  men- 
tioned the  Continental  Hotel,  Philadelphia;  the  Astor,  Union 
Square,  Sturtevant,  Hoffman,  Fifth  Avenue,  Windsor,  and 
several  other  leading  hotels  in  New  York  City.  We  are  in- 
debted to  Chas.  Lamb  for  the  history  of  roast  pig.  In  his 
essays  he  says  :  "  The  art  of  roasting,  or  rather  broiling  (which 
I  take  to  be  the  elder  brother),  was  accidentally  discovered  in 
the  manner  following  :  The  swineherd  Ho-ti,  having  gone 
out  into  the  woods  one  morning,  as  his  manner  was,  to  collect 
rnast  for  his  hogs,  left  his  cottage  in  the  care  of  his  eldest 
son,  Bo  bo,  a  great,  lubberly  boy,  who,  being  fond  of  playing 
with  fire,  let  some  sparks  escape  into  a  bundle  of  straw, 
which,  kindling  quickly,  spread  the  conflagration  over  every 
part  of  their  poor  mansion  till  it  was  reduced  to  ashes. 
Together  with  the  cottage,  what  was  of  much  more  im- 
portance, a  fine  litter  of  new  farrowed  pigs,  no  less  than 
nine  in  number,  perished.  Bo  bo  was  in  the  utmost  con- 
sternation, as  you  may  think,  not  so  much  for  the  sake  of 
the  tenement — which  his  father  and  he  could  easily  build  up 
again  with  a  few  dry  branches,  and  the  labor  of  an  hour  or 
two,  at  any  time — as  for  the  loss  of  the  pigs.  While  he  was 
thinking  what  he  should  say  to  his  father,  and  wringing  his 
hands,  an  odor  assailed  his  nostrils  unlike  any  scent  which 
he  had  before  experienced.  What  could  it  proceed  from  ? 
Not  from  the  burnt  cottage;  he  had  smelt  that  before.  In- 
deed, this  was  by  no  means  the  first  accident  which  had  oc- 


Valuable  Coolcing  Receipts.  43 

curred  through  the  negligence  of  this  unlucky  firebrand. 
A  premonitory  moistening  at  the  same  time  overflowed  his 
nether  lip.  He  knew  not  what  to  think.  He  next  stooped  down 
to  feel  the  pig,  if  there  were  any  signs  of  life  in  it.  He  burnt 
his  fingers,  and  to  cool  them  he  applied  them  in  his  booby 
fashion  to  his  mouth.  Some  of  the  crumbs  of  the  scorched 
skin  had  come  away  with  his  fingers,  and  for  the  first  time 
in  his  life  (in  the  world's,  indeed,  for  before  him  no  man 
had  known  it)  he  tasted — crackling!  Again  he  felt  and 
fumbled  at  the  pig.  It  did  not  burn  him  so  much  now; 
still,  he  licked  his  fingers  from  a  sort  of  habit.  The  truth 
at  length  broke  into  his  slow  understanding  that  it  was  the 
pig  that  smelt  so  and  the  pig  that  tasted  so  delicious  ;  and 
surrendering  himself  up  to  the  new-born  pleasure,  he  fell  to 
tearing  up  whole  handfuls  of  the  scorched  skin,  with  the 
flesh  next  it,  and  was  cramming  it  down  his  throat  in  his 
beastly  fashion  when  his  sire  entered  amid  (he  smoking 
rafters,  and,  finding  how  affairs  stood,  began  to  rain  blows 
upon  the  young  rogue's  shoulders  as  thick  as  hailstones, 
which  Bo-bo  heeded  not  any  more  than  if  they  had  been 
flies.  The  tickling  pleasure  which  he  experienced  in  his  lower 
regions  had  rendered  him  quite  callous  to  any  inconveniences 
he  might  feel  in  those  remote  quarters.  Bo-bo's  scent,  be- 
ing wonderfully  sharpened  since  morning,  soon  raked  out 
another  pig,  and,  fairly  rending  it  asunder,  thrust  the 
lesser  half  by  main  force  into  the  fists  of  Ho-ti,  still  shout- 
ing out,  '  Eat,  eat  !  Eat  the  burnt  pig,  father!  Only  taste  !' 
It  is  needless  to  state  that  both  father  and  son  despatched 
the  remainder  of  the  litter.  Bo-bo  was  strictly  enjoined  not 
to  let  the  secret  escape.  Nevertheless  strange  stories  got 
about;  it  was  observed  that  Ho-ti's  cottage  was  burnt  down 
now  more  frequently  than  ever.  As  often  as  the  sow  far- 
rowed, so  soon  was  the  house  of  Ho-ti  seen  to  be  in  a  blaze. 
At  length  they  were  watched,  the  terrible  mystery  discovered, 
and  father  and  son  summoned  to  take  their  trial  at  Peking, 
then  an  inconsiderable  assize  town.  Evidence  was  given, 
the  obnoxious  food  itself  produced  in  court,  and  verdict 
about  to  be  pronounced,   when  the   foreman   of    the   jury 


44  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

begged  that  some  of  the  burnt  pig  of  which  the  culprit 
stood  accused  might  be  handed  into  the  box.  He  handled 
it,  and  they  all  handled  it  ;  and  burning  their  fingers  as 
Bo-bo  and  his  father  had  done  before  them,  and  nature 
prompting  to  each  of  them  the  same  remedy,  against  the  face 
of  all  the  facts  and  the  clearest  charge  which  judge  had  ever 
given,  to  the  surprise  of  the  whole  court,  townsfolk,  strangers, 
reporters  (they  had  Howards  and  Eaymonds  in  those  days), 
and  all  present,  without  leaving  the  box,  or  any  manner  of 
consultation  whatever,  they  brought  in  a  simultaneous 
verdict  of  not  guilty." 

Dr.  Kitchiner  on  Pork. — "  Take  particular  care  it  be  done 
enough.  Other  meats  underdone  are  unpleasant,  but  pork  is 
absolutely  uneatable;  the  sight  of  it  is  enough  to  appall  the. 
sharpest  appetite,  if  its  gravy  has  the  least  tint  of  redness. 
Be  careful  of  the  crackling;  if  this  be  not  crisp,  or  if  it  be 
burned,  you  will  be  scolded." 

The  Turkey. — The  turkey,  says  Brillat-Savarin,  "  is  the 
largest,  and,  if  not  the  most  delicate,  at  least  the  most 
savory  of  domestic  poultry.  It  enjoys  the  singular  advan- 
tage of  assembling  around  it  every  class  of  society.  When 
our  farmers  and  wine-growers  regale  themselves  on  a  winter's 
evening,  what  do  we  see  roasting  before  the  kitchen  fire, 
close  to  which  the  white-clothed  table  is  set?  A  turkey  ! 
When  the  useful  tradesman  or  the  hard-worked  artist  in- 
vites a  few  friends  to  an  occasional  treat,  what  dish  is  he 
expected  to  set  before  them?  A  nice  roast  turkey  stuffed 
with  sausage-meat  and  Lyons  chestnuts.  And  in  our  high- 
est gastronomical  society,  when  politics  are  obliged  to  give 
way  to  dissertations  on  matters  of  taste,  what  is  desired, 
what  is  awaited,  what  is  looked  out  for  at  the  second 
course  ?  A  truffled  turkey.  In  my  '  Secret  Memoirs '  I 
find  sundry  notes  recording  that  on  many  occasions  its  res- 
torative juice  has  illumined  diplomatic  faces  of  the  highest 
eminence." 

Now,  the  average  American  could  not  be  induced  to  eat  a 
turkey  stuffed  with  sausage-meat ;   he  would  naturally  say 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  45 

that  if  the  useful  tradesman  "  or  the  hard-working  artist" 
experienced  any  pleasure  over  such  a  compound,  he  was  wel- 
come to  it;  to  him  sausage-meat  was  too  suggestive  of  pork 
and — mystery.  But  the  Lyons  chestnuts — ah!  yes,  that  will 
do,  for  he  has  tasted  chestnut  stuffing  and  has  learned  to 
like  it.  A  dissertation  on  truffles,  while  waiting  for  the 
"truffled,  turkey"  to  be  served,  is  all  that  is  necessary  to 
make  him  say  he  is  passionately  fond  of  them  in  any  form, 
otherwise  he  would  be  apt  to  ask  the  waiter  to  remove  the 
dressing  from  his  plate,  "as  it  was  full  of  small  pieces  of 
charcoal "  (an  actual  occurrence). 

Roast  Turkey. — Singe  the  bird,  and  in  drawing  it  preserve 
the  heart,  gizzard,  and  liver;  remove  the  gall-bag  from  the 
liver,  and  be  very  careful  not  to  break  it,  as  if  any  of  the 
liquid  touches  the  bird  no  amount  of  washing  will  remove 
the  bitter  taste.  Cut  off  the  neck  close  to  the  body,  and  be- 
fore doing  so  push  back  the  skin  of  the  neck  so  that  suffi- 
cient may  be  left  on  to  turn  over  the  back;  remove  a  part  of 
the  fat  adhering  to  the  skin;  split  the  breast-bone  from  the 
inside,  or  place  several  folds  of  cloth  on  the  high  breast-bone 
and  break  and  flatten  it  a  little  with  a  rolling-pin  to  make 
the  bird  look  plump.  Fill  the  breast  and  body  with  stuffing; 
sew  up  the  opening  with  coarse  thread;  turn  the  neck-skin 
over  the  back  and  fasten  it;  truss  the  legs  close  to  the  breast, 
the  wings  turn  over  the  back,  using  skewers  or  twine  to  hold 
them  in  proper  position.  Put  the  turkey  in  the  dripping-pan 
with  a  little  hot  water,  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  lay  a  few 
small  pieces  of  butter  upon  it,  and  the  feet,  scalded  and 
scraped,  under  it.  Baste  frequently.  Time,  from  two  to  three 
hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  bird. 

Should  he  prove  to  be  of  doubtful  age  and  rich  in  spurs 
and  scaly  feet,  parboil  him.  Put  him  in  a  saucepan  or  pot, 
cover  with  cold  water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  when 
the  water  comes  to  a  boil  take  out  the  bird  and  dry  it  well 
before  stuffing  it. 

Chestnut  Stuffing. — Roast  a  pint  of  chestnuts  and  peel  off 
the  outer  and  inner  skin;  weigh  them,  and  simmer  half  a  pound 


46  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

of  them  for  twenty  minutes  in  as  much  veal  gravy  as  will 
cover  them;  drain  and  let  them  cool;  then  pound  them  in  a 
mortar  with  four  ounces  of  butter,  three  ounces  of  bread- 
crumbs, a  trifle  of  grated  lemon-peel  and  powdered  mace, 
salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne;  bind  the  mixture  with  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs. 

Chestnuts  roasted  or  boiled  may  be  added  to  almost  any 
stuffing  for  fowl,  etc.,  and  give  general  satisfaction.  I  once 
made  a  stuffing  of  chestnuts,  apple-sauce,  bread-crumbs,  and 
the  proper  seasoning  for  a  'possum,  and  all  who  tasted  of  it 

pronounced  it  a  dainty  dish.     One  of  the  party,  Dr.  H , 

never  tires  of  talking  about  "  that  'possum  with  the  chest- 
nuts." 

Oyster  Stuffing. — Remove  the  heart  (or  what  some  call  the 
eye)  from  two  dozen  oysters,  mince  them  finely,  pound  them 
to  a  paste,  and  mix  with  them  five  ounces  of  bread-crumbs,  an 
ounce  of  butter,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  atablespoon- 
ful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  an  even  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  When  well 
mixed  bind  the  mixture  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  small 
quantity  of  the  oyster  liquid  added  gradually. 

Bread  Stuffing. — Grate  sufficient  bread  to  fill  the  bird;  mois- 
ten it  with  milk,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  sweet  marjo- 
ram, and  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Add  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  and  bind  the  mixture  with  yolk  of  egg.  Add  a 
few  raw  whole  oysters,  if  desired. 

Roast  Capon. — They  should  be  managed  in  the  same  way 
as  turkeys,  and  served  with  the  same  sauces.  I  cannot  quite 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  a  roast  capon  is  equal  in  flavor  to 
one  boiled  and  served  with  egg-sauce. 

Roast  Chicken. — Singe  your  chickens  and  truss  them  care- 
fully. Broilers,  as  they  are  called,  are  better  without  stuff- 
ing, unless  they  are  very  large.  Season  with  salt,  put  small 
bits  of  butter  over  the  meat,  and  place  them  in  the  pan  with 
a  little  water  or  veal  stock;  baste   occasionally  and   dredge 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts,  47 

with  flour  before   taking  from  the  oven.     A  few  tarragon 
leaves  with  the  sauce  are  acceptable. 

A  spring  chicken  cooked  in  any  style  is  not  to  be  despised 
by  any  means,  but  I  quite  agree  with  that  appreciative  epicure, 
Mr.  Sam  Ward,  when  he  said: 

"  To  roast  spring  chickens  is  to  spoil  'em  ; 
Just  split  'em  down  the  back  and  broil  'em." 

Roast  Pigeon. — Raise  the  skin  from  the  breast-bones  of  the 
pigeons  with  your  finger;  make  a  small  quantity  of  finely-fla- 
vored stuffing,  and  stuff  it  between  the  skin  and  flesh,  using 
care  not  to  break  the  skin.  Fasten  a  long,  thin  slice  of 
bacon  over  the  breasts  of  the  birds  with  toothpicks;  put  them 
in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  little  water,  and  diedge  with  flour. 
When  done  remove  the  bacon,  set  them  neatly  around  the 
edge  of  a  dish,  fill  the  centre  with  new  green  peas  or  Godil- 
lot  French  peas,  and  serve.  (A  favorite  dish  of  the  members 
of  the  Club  of  Lindenthorpe,  on  the  Delaware.) 

Roast  Domestic  Duck. — Americans,  as  a  rule,  do  not  take 
kindly  to  domestic  duck,  owing  to  its  peculiar  flavor  and 
richness,  and  also  to  the  fact  of  the  bird  being  usually  accom- 
panied with  a  very  highly-seasoned  onion  stuffing.  Never- 
theless, a  young  domestic  duck  stuffed  with  a  bread  stuffing 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  and  a  suspicion  of  onion,  is 
a  dish  that  should  often  appear  upon  the  tables  of  our 
American  families.  A  pair  of  ducklings  with  no  other  stuff- 
ing than  an  onion  placed  inside  the  birds  while  roasting,  and 
removed  before  serving,  will  make  a  splendid  dinner  for  a 
family  of  five  or  six.  Serve  with  apple-fritters  or  apple- 
sauce. 

Roast  Goose. — Singe,  draw,  and  truss  the  goose,  and,  if  an 
old  one,  parboil  it.  The  best  stuffing  for  a  goose  is  a  sage- 
and-onion  stuffing.  The  way  in  which  this  is  made  must  de- 
pend upon  the  taste  of  those  who  have  to  eat  it.  If  a  strong 
flavor  of  onions  is  liked  the  onion  should  be  chopped  raw. 
If  this  is  not  the  case  they  should  be  boiled  in  one  or  two 
waters,  and  mixed  with  bread-crumbs,  powdered  sage,  salt 


48  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

and  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  two  small  apples  chopped  fine;  fill 
the  bird  with  the  stuffing,  sew  it  up  with  coarse  thread, 
sprinkle  salt  over  it,  and  set  it  in  a  pan  with  a  little  warm 
water;  haste  frequently,  and  do  not  take  it  from  the  oven 
until  thoroughly  cooked. 

Ham  a  la  Russe.— If  the  ham  he  hard  and  salty  soak  it  for 
several  hours.  If  a  fresh-cured  Ferris  ham  it  will  not  need 
soaking.  Trim  and  cut  away  all  the  rusty  parts,  and  co- 
ver it  with  a  coarse  paste  of  flour  and  water  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  fasten  it  securely  to  prevent  the  juice  escaping. 
Time,  from  three  to  four  hours,  according  to  size  of  the  ham. 
Eemove  the  paste  and  skin  while  the  ham  is  hot,  cover  the 
fat  with  a  sugar  paste  ( see  boiled  ham)  moistened  with  port, 
and  return  it  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

The  Continental  Hotel,  Philadelphia,  makes  a  specialty  of 
Ham  d  la  Russe,  and  it  is  a  splendid  dish  served  with  cham- 
pagne-sauce. 

Canvas-Back  Duck. — Pluck,  draw,  and  singe  the  duck;  wipe 
out  the  blood  from  the  inside  with  a  clean  towel;  cut  off  the 
head  and  neck,  and  put  them  in  the  body  of  the  duck,  allow- 
ing the  head  to  protrude.  Sprinkle  a  little  celery-salt  over 
the  breast,  with  a  bit  of  butter;  put  it  on  a  small  buttered 
pan,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  for  seventeen  minutes.  Serve 
with  currant- jelly. 

A  few  outer  stalks  of  celery  placed  inside  the  duck  will 
improve  its  flavor. 

A  red-head  duck  stuffed  with  grated  bread,  chopped  celery, 
seasoning,  and  mixed  with  yolk  of  egg,  will  taste  very  much 
like  a  canvas-back. 

A  blue- winged  teal  duck  is  very  nice  broiled.  Cut  it  down 
the  back,  brush  a  little  melted  butter  over  it,  and  broil,  keep- 
ing the  inner  part  of  the  duck  to  the  fire  most  of  the 
time.  To  roast  a  teal  place  a  strip  of  bacon  over  the  breast 
and  set  it  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Roast  Venison. — Take  a  leg  of  well-kept  venison,  wipe  it 
thoroughly,  rub  a  little  salt  over  it,  and  dredge  with  flour. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  49 

Place  it  in  a  dripping-pan  with  the  ragged  pieces  you  have 
trimmed  off  of  it,  and  a  little  water  or  wine.  Put  small  bits 
of  butte.*  here  and  there  over  the  meat,  set  it  in  the  oven,  and 
baste  frequently  till  clone.  If  the  leg  is  not  very  fat  it  is  a 
good  plan  to  lard  it  with  strips  of  bacon  or  pork.  Serve 
with  currant-jelly,  and  don't  forget  the  hot  plates. 

I  am  not  a  lover  of  venison  a  l'Anglaise,  for  I  do  not  fancy 
the  flour  paste  daubed  over  the  meat  as  most  English  cooks 
prepare  it,  though  the  buttered  paper  is  an  advantage  when 
cooking  large  joints  of  game. 

Roast  Prairie  Chicken. — The  bird  being  a  little  strong, 
and  its  flesh  when  cooked  a  little  dry,  it  should  be  either 
larded  or  wide  strips  of  bacon  or  pork  placed  over  its  breast. 
A  mild  seasoned  stuffing  will  improve  the  flavor  of  old 
birds.  Dust  a  little  flour  over  them,  baste  occasionally, 
and  serve. 

Pheasants  may  be  managed  in  the  same  manner. 

Roast  Quail. — Pluck  and  draw  the  birds,  rub  a  little  butter 
over  them,  tie  a  strip  of  bacon  over  the  breasts,  and  set 
them  in  the  oven  for  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 

Roast  Woodcock. — Pluck  the  bird  carefully,  do  not  cut 
off  the  head  or  draw  the  trail;  punch  a  few  holes' in  the 
back  of  the  bird  with  a  fork,  and  lay  it  in  the  pan  on  a  piece 
of  buttered  toast.  A  little  salt  is  all  the  seasoning  required. 
Time,  twenty  minutes.  A  woodcock  is  the  only  game- 
bird  I  send  to  table  without  currant- jelly  ;  its  own  fine 
flavor  needs  no  bush. 

Roast  Snipe. — Pluck  and  draw  the  snipe,  preserving  the 
trail  and  head ;  tie  a  thin  strip  of  bacon  over  the  breast; 
chop  up  the  trail  and  spread  it  on  buttered  toast  (one  slice 
for  each  bird);  lay  the  birds  in  the  pan  with  the  toast  be- 
tween them,  and  roast  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  bacon, 
place  the  birds  on  the  toast,  and  serve. 

Rail-Birds. — Rail-birds  are  decidedly  inferior  to  either 
snipe  or  woodcock.     They  should  be  skinned,  as  much  of 


50  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

their  rankness  lies  in  the  skin.  The  trail  is  a  trifle  too 
strong  for  the  average  American  palate.  They  make  a  very 
good  pie ;  manage  them  as  yon  would  snipe  for  roasting, 
broiling,  etc. 

Reed-Birds. — These  delicious  "lumps  of  sweetness,"  as 
they  are  appropriately  called,  are  always  acceptable,  but  to 
thoroughly  appreciate  a  reed-bird  dinner  one  must  mingle 
with  the  gunners  on  the  Delaware  Kiver  as  guest  or  mem- 
ber of  one  of  the  many  clubs  whose  houses  are  situated 
within  a  few  hundred  yards  from  the  hunting-grounds. 

After  the  judge's  decision  as  to  who  has  high  boat  the 
birds  are  plucked  (and  at  some  of  the  club-houses  drawn) 
arranged  neatly  in  a  dripping-pan  with  bits  of  fresh  coun- 
try butter  between  them.  They  are  allowed  to  cook  on 
one  side  a  few  minutes,  and  with  a  long-handled  spoon  are 
turned  over  to  brown  the  other  side.  A  little  salt  is  added, 
and  they  are  then  placed  upon  a  hot  platter  en  pyramids  and 
the  gravy  poured  over  them;  they  are  then  sent  to  table 
with  fried  chip  potatoes.  The  scene  that  follows  baffles  de- 
scription. Not  a  voice  is  heard,  "  at  least  as  long  as  the  birds 
last."  The  painful  silence  is  only  broken  by  the  sounds  of 
crumbling  bones  between  the  teeth  of  the  assemblage,  and 
an  occasional  More  birds,  Mr.  Caterer  !  from  that  prince  of 
gourmets,  Mayor  S . 

Reed-Birds  a  la  Lindenthorpe. — On  "Ladies'  Day"  the 
members  of  this  club  are  more  particular  than  on  "mem- 
bers' day."  They  prepare  the  birds  by  drawing  the  trail 
and  removing  the  heads;  they  then  take  large  sweet 
or  Irish  potatoes,  cut  them  in  two,  scoop  out  the  in  sides, 
and  put  an  oyster  or  a  small  piece  of  bacon  inside  of  each 
bird,  and  put  the  birds  inside  the  potato,  tie  them  up  with 
twine,  and  bake  until  the  potatoes  are  done.  The  common 
twine  is  then  removed  and  the  potatoes  are  tied  with  a  narrow 
piece  of  white  or  colored  tape,  in  a  neat  bow-knot,  and  sent 
to  table  on  a  napkin. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  51 


SALADS. 

There  is  not  a  dish  in  the  gastronomic  vocabulary  that 
varies  in  composition  more  than  a  salad.  And  the  reasons 
for  it  are  many.  Among  them  may  be  mentioned  climatic 
influences  and  the  personal  habits  of  individuals.  The  in- 
dividual who  lives  well,  and  who  considers  a  meal  imperfect 
without  a  wine  or  malt  beverage,  will  sooner  or  later  learn 
to  use  condiments  to  such  an  extent  as  to  alarm  the  more 
temperate  at  table.  A  salad  prepared  for  the  majority,  he 
will  tell  you,  cloys  on  his  palate  ;  and,  after  the  first  mouth- 
ful he  resorts  to  cayenne  and  vinegar  to  ''tone  up"  the 
salad  to  suit  his  taste.  After  this  ungenerous  act  the  close 
observer  will  notice  confusion  upon  the  face  of  the  salad- 
composer,  who  felt  confident  that  he  had  prepared  a  salad  to 
suit  the  taste  of  the  most  fastidious.  But  my  friend  the 
salad-mixer  should  not  get  offended;  he  should  keep  in 
view  one  fact — that  a  palate  abused  by  the  constant  use  of 
tobacco  and  other  stimulants  requires  more  sharp  and  pun- 
gent seasoning  than  one  accustomed  to  these  things  only  in 
moderation,  and  that  a  strictly  temperate  person  requires 
less  of  condiments  than  either  of  them. 

The  dyspeptic's  case  is  entirely  different.  He  will  com- 
plain of  a  salad  in  any  form,  accusing  the  oil  of  causing  all 
his  trouble.  But  he  is  wrong.  Let  him  stop  flooding  his 
food  with  liquids  that  only  dilute  and  weakeu  the  gastric 
juices  of  the  stomach  and  he  will  soon  be  rid  of  dyspepsia 
and  learn  to  love  salads  as  much  as  other  people.  The 
habit  of  washing  down  each  mouthful  of  food  with  liquids 
is  a  deplorable  one,  and  the  person  that  does  it  invites  dys- 
pepsia by  so  doing.  Persons  who  are  in  the  habit  of  eating 
salads  late  at  night,  and  who  complain  of  indigestion  next 
morning,  will  find  it  to  their  advantage  to  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  chicken  pepsin  to  each  pint  of  Mayonnaise ;  by 
so  doing  digestion  is  assisted,  and  everyone  will  feel  very 
much  better  next  day. 

In  catering  for  families  I  invariably  add  pepsin  to  the 
dressing,  but  until  now  have  kept  it  a  secret,  not  liking  the 


52  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

idea  of  being  accused  of  mixing  medicine  with  the  food. 
Nevertheless  I  have  been  amply  rewarded  by  receiving  more 
orders  than  I  could  personally  attend  to. 
The  following  letter  will  explain  itself  : 

Sharpless  &  Sons,  801  to  807  Chestnut  St., 
Philadelphia,  March  7,  1879. 
Mr.  Murrey,  Continental  Hotel : 

Dear  Sir  :  Please  send  two  quarts  of  chicken  salad 
manipulated  by  yourself ;  the  last  we  had  prepared  by  you 
left  a  pleasant  recollection.  Send  up  promptly  at  five 
o'clock,  and  oblige,  C.  H.  Hamrick. 

Lettuce  Salad. — Take  a  good-sized  head  of  lettuce  and  pull 
the  leaves  apart.  Wash  them  a  moment  in  a  little  water, 
then  shake  off  the  water  and  dry  the  leaves  in  a  napkin  by 
taking  hold  of  the  four  corners  and  shaking  it.  Examine 
them  carefully,  wipe  off  all  grit,  and  reject  all  bruised  leaves; 
place  them  in  a  salad-bowl  large  enough  to  dress  them 
in  nicely  without  scattering  a  part  of  them  over  the  table. 
Mix  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  one  salt- spoonful  of  fresh 
ground  pepper,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  oil  in  a  salad-spoon;  pour  this  over  the  lettuce,  and  add 
two  more  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  ;  next  toss  the  salad  lightly 
with  a  salad  spoon  and  fork,  and,  lastly,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar;  toss  it  gently  once  or  twice  and  send  to  table. 
To  be  eaten  at  once.  Never  cut  lettuce.  Should  you  wish  to 
divide  the  leaves  tear  them  apart  gently.  But  it  is  not 
always  necessary  to  tear  the  leaves,  should  they  appear 
too  large  to  eat  gracefully.  With  the  assistance  of  your 
knife  you  can  wrap  the  leaf  round  the  end  of  your  fork  so 
as  to  make  a  small  ball  of  it,  and  eat  it  with  a  little  more 
elegance  than  your  neighbor,  who  is  trying  his  level  best 
to  get  the  leaf  into  his  mouth  edgeways. 

Plain  French  Dressing. — A  plain  French  dressing  is  mada 
of  salt,  pepper,  oil,  and  vinegar,  and  nothing  else.  Three 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil  to  one  of  vinegar,  salt-spoon  heaping 
full  of  salt,  an  even  salt-spoonful  of  pepper  mixed  with  a 
little  cayenne. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  53 

Plain  English  Dressing. — Same  as  plain  French  dressing, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  made  English  mustard  added. 

Bacon  Dresing. — Out  half  a  pavnd  of  bacon-fat  into  slices, 
then  into  very  small  pieces,  and  fry  them  until  the  oil  ex- 
tracted is  a  light- brown ;  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  one  wineglassf  ul  of  strong  vine- 
gar, a  salt-spoonful  of  pepper,  and  pour  it  over  the  salad  with 
the  pieces  of  bacon.  A  very  nice  dressing  when  you  cannot 
get  oil,  etc. 

Summer  Mayonnaise. — Chop  up  the  yolk  and  white  of  a 
hard-boiled  egg  very  fine,  and  sprinkle  it  over  a  salad.  Mix 
a  plain  French  dressing  in  a  cold  soup-plate,  and  pour  over 
the  egg  and  salad,  and  mix  all  together. 

Sauce  Vinaigrette. — Mix  a  plain  French  dressing,  and  add 
to  it  a  quarter  of  an  onion  chopped  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley  or  pickle. 

Don't  like  the  onion  ?    Then  add  a  few  Godillot  capers. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce. — Work  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  to  a 
smooth  paste,  and  add  two  salt-spoonfuls  of  Koyal  Table  Salt, 
half  a  salt-spoonful  of  cayenne,  a  salt-spoonful  of  dry  mustard, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  oil;  mix  these  ingredients  thoroughly 
and  add  the  strained  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Take  the  re- 
mainder of  half  a  pint  of  Virgin  olive-oil  and  add  it  gra- 
dually, a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  and  every  fifth  teaspoonful 
add  a  few  drops  of  lemon- juice  until  you  have  used  two 
lemons  and  the  half-pint  of  oil. 

There  are  almost  as  many  ways  of  making  a  Mayonnaise 
sauce  as  there  are  of  cooking  eggs. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce,  No.  2.— Rub  the  yolks  of  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs  with  the  yolk  of  one  raw  egg  to  a  smooth  paste; 
add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  salt-spoonfuls  of  white 
pepper,  and  two  salt-spoonfuls  of  made  mustard;  mix  tho- 
roughly and  work  a  gill  of  oil  gradually  into  the  mixture,  al- 
ternated with  a  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar  until  you 
have  used  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Should  the  sauce 
appear  too  thick  add  a  wineglassful  of  cream  gradually. 


54  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

Lobster  Salad. — Tear  the  meat  of  the  lobster  in*  o  shreds  with 
two  forks  ;  remove  the  eggs  {if  a  hen  lobster)  from  the  fins  ; 
scrape  out  all  the  green  fat  from  the  shell  and  set  it  aside. 
Prepare  for  making  a  Mayonnaise  by  working  a  tablespoonf ul 
of  the  fat  into  a  smooth  paste  ;  let  this  green  fat,  with  the  yolk 
of  one  raw  egg  and  one  hard-boiled  egg,be  the  basis  of  your  Ma- 
yonnaise ;  in  all  other  particulars  follow  instruction  for  Ma- 
yonnaise sauce.  When  complete  mix  the  lobster  meat  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sauce.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a 
dish  or  compot  with  lettuce  (the  large  leaves  tear  in  two), 
put  a  layer  of  lobster  upon  it;  next  add  a  layer  of  celery  cut 
into  narrow-inch  strips,  and  another  layer  of  lobster  ;  ar- 
range it  neatly  on  the  dish  ;  sprinkle  the  eggs  or  the  chop- 
ped coral  on  the  lettuce  round  the  edges ;  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  meat,  garnish  with  lobster-legs,  and  serve. 

Somebody  sent  to  the  Washington  Republic's  correspond- 
ent, "  G.  H.  B.,"  while  he  was  laid  up  in  Providence  hospital 
with  the  gout,  a  very  fine  lobster,  and  this  is  what  he  did 
with  it  :  "  Now,  I'll  tell  you  about  that  lobster.  I  had  him 
laid  away  tenderly  in  the  ice-chest,  and  directed  him  to  ap- 
pear at  dinner  with  some  leaves  of  lettuce  and  a  raw  egg. 
The  yolk  of  that  egg  I  mingled,  with  slow,  deliberate  revolu- 
tions of  a  fork,  with  mustard,  red  pepper,  salt,  and  oil. 
When  the  paste  was  thick  enough  to  take  up  on  the  end  of 
the  fork  like  dough  I  thinned  it — 'cut  it'  is  technical — with 
vinegar,  and  there  was  my  dressing.  I  planted  a  table  facing 
the  snow-storm,  at  which  I  mocked  and  jeered  in  a  tempe- 
rature of  seventy  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Then  did  I  disrobe 
the  '  Cardinal  of  the  Seas '  (you  remember  the  Frenchman 
who  applied  that  to  lobsters,  thinking  they  came  from  the 
ocean  red  ?)  of  his  vestments,  and  by  the  aid  of  a  long  pickle- 
spoon  placed  all  that  was  in  him  on  the  plate.  His  legs  I 
chewed  up.  Then  late  him,  and  watched  the  many  industri- 
ous, hard-working  fathers  of  families  trudging  by  in  the  snow, 
who  had  no  lobster,  and  couldn't  have  dressed  him  if  they 
had.  Then  I  finished  up  on  some  sponge-cake  and  custard, 
ate  two  apples  with  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  lit  my  pipe,  and  in  its 
smoke   framed    beautiful   porcelain   figures    engraven  with 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  55 

Chinese  characters  and  Hindoo  idols.  That's  what  I  did 
with  that  lobster.  He  was  a  prime  one  and  very  much  in- 
terested the  Sisters." 

Chicken  Salad. — Cut  up  a  cold  boiled  chicken  into  neat 
strips  or  pieces,  and  mix  with  it  an  equal  quantity  of  celery. 
Cut  the  celery-stalks  into  inch  pieces,  and  cut  each  piece 
into  long  strips  ;  mix  them  together  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
Mayonnaise;  arrange  neatly  upon  a  dish  garnished  with  lettuce, 
parsley,  or  hard-boiled  egg,  pour  the  remainder  of  the  sauce 
over  the  meat,  and  serve. 

Veal  Salad. — Boil  a  nice  lean  piece  of  veal  with  a  chicken 
or  turkey,  saving  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled  to 
make  a  soup,  and  serving  the  fowl  for  dinner  with  egg  or 
oyster  sauce.  When  cold  cut  it  up  into  neat  strips,  mix  it 
with  celery  or  lettuce,  pour  Mayonnaise  over  it,  and  serve. 

The  custom  of  pickling  the  pieces,  etc.,  of  fowl  before  mix- 
ing them  in  a  salad  does  not  take  well  with  Americans. 

Herring  Salad. — Soak  four  Holland  herrings  in  water  or 
milk  for  three  hours ;  then  cut  them  up  into  neat,  square  pieces 
and  set  them  aside  ;  cut  up  into  slices  nearly  three  quarts  of 
boiled  potatoes  while  they  are  hot,  and  pour  over  them  Rhine 
wine  enough  to  moisten  them  ;  cover  close,  and  when  cold  add 
the  herrings  and  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped 
fine;  crush  a  dozen  whole  peppers  in  a  napkin,  add  to  the 
salad,  and  mix.  If  milt  herrings  are  used  pound  the  milt 
to  a  paste,  moisten  it  with  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  salad. 

If  roe  herring  are  used,  separate  the  eggs  neatly  and 
sprinkle  them  over  the  salad,  and  serve. 

I  know  a  number  of  my  German  friends  who  will  say, 
"  Ah!  that  is  not  a  herring  salad."  Where  are  the  apples,  the 
capers,  beets,  pickles,  etc.  ?  But  the  only  answe  I  can  make 
them  is  that  the  majority  of  our  German  brethren  make  an 
Italian  or  a  Russian  salad  and  call  it  a  herring  salad. 

Potato  Salad. — Cut  up  three  quarts  of  boiled  potatoes, 
while  hot,  into  neat  pieces,  and  add  to  them  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  a  tea- 


56  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

spoonful  of  pepper,  and  one  of  salt ;  add  a  cupful  of  oil, 
and  mix  ;  then  add  a  cupful  of  warm  stock,  a  wineglassfulof 
vinegar  (from  the  mixed-pickle  bottle),  mix  the  ingredients 
together  carefully,  and  do  not  break  the  potato  anymore  than 
is  absolutely  necessary ;  set  it  in  the  ice-box,  and  when  cold 
serve  by  placing  a  leaf  of  lettuce  on  a  side-dish,  and  put  two 
spoonfuls  of  the  salad  upon  the  lettuce.  The  onion  and  pars- 
ley may  be  omitted,  and  boiled  root  celery  added,  or  a  little 
stalk  celery  chopped  fine.  You  cannot  make  a  perfect  pota- 
to salad  with  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Most  cook-books  recom- 
mend them,  but  that  soggy,  peculiar  taste  cannot  be  removed 
or  destroyed  by  all  the  condiments  in  the  cruet-stand.  A 
salad  prepared  while  the  potatoes  are  hot  will  look  more  ap- 
petizing and  will  keep  three  or  four  days,  while  cold  boiled 
potatoes  will  turn  a  black,  uninviting  color,  and  turn  sour 
the  second  day. 

Turnip  Tops. — When  turnips  placed  in  the  cellar  begin  to 
sprout  they  are  usually  thrown  away,  but  the  housekeeper 
of  experience  will  tell  you  that  a  bushel  of  turnips  will  fur- 
nish her  family  with  a  salad  all  winter,  and  a  very  good  one  if 
properly  prepared. 

Place  the  bushel  of  turnips  in  a  dark,  warm  cellar  to  sprout, 
and  when  the  sprouts  are  three  or  four  inches  long  cut  them 
off;  pick  the  leaves  from  the  stems,  and  pour  hot  water  over 
them  ;  let  them  remain  in  the  hot  water  a  moment,  then 
plunge  them  into  cold  water ;  place  the  sprouts  in  the  co- 
lander to  drain  oh*  all  the  water,  and  send  to  table  with  a 
plain  dressing  or  bacon  dressing  poured  over  them. 

Asparagus  Salad. — Boil  the  asparagus,  and  take  it  from  the 
hot  water  and  plunge  it  into  cold  water  to  give  it  firmness  ; 
drain  off  the  water,  and  send  to  table  with  sauce  Vinaigrette 
or  plain  French  dressing. 

Hop  Sprouts. — The  hop-growers  pull  up  all  but  two  or  three 
sprouts  from  a  hill  of  hops,  and  throw  them  away  ;  the  few 
that  remain  in  the  hill  are  supposed  to  do  duty  as  pole-climb- 
ers.    Gather  a  small  basketful  of  the  rejected  sprouts ;  take 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  57 

them  home  ;  boil  them  in  salted  water  a  few  minutes,  then 
plunge  them  into  cold  water  ;  drain  off  all  the  water,  and 
serve  with  a  plain  French  dressing,  bacon  dressing,  or  sauce 
Vinaigrette. 

If  you  eat  asparagus  you  will  like  hop  sprouts. 

Cucumber  Salad. — Peel  and  slice  the  cucumbers  as  thin  as 
possible ;  put  the  slices  in  salted  water  five  minutes,  then 
draw  off  the  water  ;  cover  them  with  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper,  and  salt  if  necessary. 

Cucumber  and  Tomato  Salad. — Peel  and  slice  a  five-inch 
cucumber  into  very  thin  slices;  put  them  in  a  bowl  with  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  ;  set 
it  aside  and  mix  a  plain  English  dressing. 

Take  one  large  or  two  small-sized  tomatoes,  scald  them  a 
moment,  remove  the  skin  and  put  them  in  cold  water  a  few 
minutes  to  cool ;  line  the  salad-bowl  with  lettuce,  drain  the 
cucumbers  from  the  pickle  and  put  them  in  the  bowl ;  wipe 
the  tomatoes  and  cut  them  into  slices  ;  put  them  on  top  of 
the  cucumber,  pour  the  dressing  over  it,  and  serve. 

Office  Western  Union  Telegraph  Company,  ) 
Harrisburg,  Penn.,  April  16,  1879.  ) 

Mr.  Murrey,  Caterer  Continental  Hotel,  Philadelphia: 

Send  by  express,  to-morrow,  one  hundred  Murrey  salad 
sandwiches. 

Henry  M.  Hoyt,  Governor. 

Murrey's  Salad  Sandwich.— Cut  up  four  ounces  of  breast  of 
boiled  chicken  and  four  ounces  of  tongue,  place  them  in  a 
mortar,  aud  pound  them  to  a  paste  ;  add  two  salt-spoonfuls 
of  celery-salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy 
paste,  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  Mayonnaise  ;  put  the  mix- 
ture on  a  cold  dish,  and  set  it  aside. 

Take  a  few  neat  leaves  of  lettuce,  dip  each  leaf  in  a  little 
tarragon  vinegar,  shake  it,  and  piace  it  on  a  slice  of  bread  ; 
spread  a  layer  of  the  prepared  meat  over  the  lettuce,  then 
another  leaf  of  lettuce  over  the  meat,  and  the  other  slice  of 


58  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

bread,  and  your  sandwich  is  made.  Trim  off  the  crust,  cut 
each  sandwich  in  two,  and  fold  each  piece  neatly  in  con- 
fectionery (oiled)  paper. 

Ham  and  veal  make  a  nice  salad  sandwich.  The  meat  may 
be  spread  on  the  bread  and  the  lettuce  in  the  centre,  if  pre- 
ferred. 

Muskmelon  Salad. — Should  you  be  so  unfortunate  as  to 
receive  an  insipid,  over-ripe  melon,  do  not  send  it  from  the 
table,  but  scoop  it  out  on  your  plate  with  a  spoon,  pour  a 
French  dressing  over  it,  and  you  will  thank  me  for  the  sug- 
gestion. 

Alligator-Pear  Salad. — This  tropical  fruit,  that  tastes 
something  like  our  chestnuts,  is  beginning  to  find  favor 
among  us,  but  care  should  be  used  in  selecting  the  fruit.  The 
green  colored  fruit  is  the  best ;  the  black,  over-ripe  fruit  is 
useless.  Out  the  pear  in  two,  remove  the  large  seed,  cut 
away  the  outer  rind,  then  cut  the  fruit  into  strips  and  season 
with  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  best  Virgin 
olive-oil,  a  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar — nothing  else. 

Salt. — Of  all  the  condiments  now  in  use  salt  is  the  most 
essential.  The  health  of  every  individual  depends  upon  it, 
and  it  is  as  much  required  as  food  or  drink;  therefore  the 
salt  question  is  an  important  one  to  families.  Do  not  buy 
salt  so  fine  as  to  cake  in  the  salt-cellar,  for  it  is  almost 
useless  ;  nor  use  a  very  coarse  salt  ;  a  happy  medium  is 
the  thing.  What  is  known  to  the  trade  as  Eoyal  Table  Salt 
is  the  proper  fineness  and  best  adapted  for  hotels  and  family 
use. 

Mushrooms. — I  have  purposely  avoided  introducing  mush- 
rooms into  my  receipts  on  account  of  the  expense  attached, 
but  where  the  expense  is  only  a  secondary  consideration  they 
may  be  used  indiscriminately.  Of  the  French  canned  mush- 
rooms the  A.  Godillot's  brand  gives  the  best  satisfaction,  being 
put  up  and  sealed  at  the  source  of  supply,  and,  therefore, 
their  natural  flavors  are  preserved.  Our  field  mushrooms  are 
very  nice  when  fresh,  cooked  in  any  form.      To  distinguish 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  59 

them  from  the  poisonous  fungi,  "A  Constant  Reader,"  writ- 
ing to  the  London  Times,  says:  "I  venture  to  send  you  a 
simple  test  of  the  mushroom,  which  I  have  practised  for  many 
years,  and  for  which  I  am  indebted  to  an  old  herbalist.  Be- 
fore peeling  the  mushroom  pass  a  gold  ring  backwards  and 
forwards  on  the  skin  of  the  mushroom;  should  the  bruise 
thus  caused  turn  yellow  or  orange  color  the  mushroom  is 
poisonous,  but  otherwise  it  is  quite  safe.  I  have  tried  re- 
peated baskets  of  mushrooms  in  this  way,  some  turning  yel- 
low and  others  retaining  the  usual  color,  though  in  all 
other  respects  to  all  appearance  the  same." 

Forney's  Progress  on  mushrooms  : 

He  saw  a  fellow  gathering  mushrooms,  and  he  knew  they 
were  the  poisonous  kind. 

"  Take  care,"  he  said,  "those  mushrooms  are  poisonous." 

"  Oh  !  that  makes  no  difference,"  replied  the  man.  "  I  am 
not  going  to  eat  them  ;  I'm  gathering  them  for  market." 

The  Mystery  of  making  Loaf  Bread — A  Trustworthy 
Receipt. — "  Loaf  bread,"  once  said  an  experienced  house- 
keeper to  us,  "  interferes  with  the  salvation  of  more  house- 
keepers than  any  other  one  thing  in  the  world."  This  was 
probably  an  extravagant  statement,  yet  to  the  country  house- 
wife who  cannot  turn  to  a  convenient  bakery  the  duty  of 
breadmaking  is  too  often  a  heavy  cross — a  sort  of  hit-or-miss 
experiment.  Heavy,  sour  bread  is  far  more  general  than  the 
opposite,  and  this  is  trying  to  both  the  digestions  and  to  the 
tempers  of  the  family  who  eat  it.  Yet  there  is  no  reason 
for  this;  there  is  a  philosophy  of  breadmaking  as  of  every- 
thing else,  and  certain  causes  accomplish  certain  results. 
Therefore  we  are  glad  to  be  able  to  give  a  receipt  from  a 
practical  housekeeper  whose  bread  never  fails:  To  make  two 
quarts  of  bread  or  rolls  take  four  or  five  nice,  large  Irish 
potatoes,  peel  and  cut  them  up,  and  put  them  to  boil  in  just 
enough  water  to  cover  them.  When  done  mash  smooth  in 
the  same  water,  and  when  cool,  not  cold,  add  a  half-teacup- 
ful  of  yeast — or,  if  you  use  compressed  yeast,  the  sixth  part  of 
a  cake  dissolved  in  tepid  water — a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  a 


€0  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

little  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  a  pint  of  flour.  Mix 
together  lightly.  This  should  be  very  soft  and  quite  sticky. 
Set  by  in  a  covered  vessel  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  In  two 
or  three  hours  it  will  be  risen,  and  should  look  almost  like 
yeast,  full  of  bubbles.  Now  work  in  the  rest  of  your  two 
quarts  of  flour,  and,  if  necessary,  add  a  little  cold  water. 
The  dough  should  be  rather  soft  and  need  not  be  kneaded 
more  than  half  an  hour.  Set  to  rest  in  a  moderately  warm 
place  for  four  hours  or  thereabouts.  It  can  be  baked  now 
if  wanted  at  once,  but,  if  not,  take  a  spoon  and  push  the 
dough  down  from  the  top  and  sides  of  the  vessel  containing 
it,  and  let  it  rise  again.  The  oftener  the  bread  rises  the 
lighter  it  will  be — three  times  is,  however,  sufficient.  After 
it  rises  the  last  time  take  it  out  of  the  vessel  and  knead  it 
with  your  hands  until  it  is  smooth.  If  too  soft  add  a  little 
more  flour.  For  rolls,  roll  out  and  cut  as  if  for  biscuit.  If 
you  prefer  doubled  rolls  give  each  a  touch  with  the  rolling- 
pin  to  make  it  oblong,  and  then  double  it  over.  The  baking- 
pan  must  be  greased  and  the  rolls  must  not  touch  each  other. 
Set  down  to  rise;  this  will  take  half  or  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Then  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  as  you  would  biscuit. 
Unless  the  oven  is  hot  the  rolls  will  spread  and  the  crust  be 
hard. — Col.  McClure's  Philadetyhia  Times. 

Wheat  Bread. — Put  seven  pounds  of  flour  into  a  bread- 
pan,  hollow  out  the  centre,  and  add  a  quart  of  lukewarm 
water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  wineglassful  of  yeast.  Have 
ready  more  warm  water,  and  add  gradually  as  much  as  will 
make  a  smooth,  soft  dough.  Knead  it  well;  dust  a  little  flour 
over  it,  cover  it  with  a  cloth,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for 
four  hours  ;  then  knead  it  again  for  fifteen  minutes  and  let  it 
rise  again.     Divide  it  into  loaves  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Corn  Bread. — Sift  three  quarts  of  corn  meal,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  mix  sufficient  water  with  it  to  make  a 
very  thin  batter.  Cover  it  with  a  bread-cloth  and  set  it  to 
rise.  When  ready  to  bake  stir  it  well,  pour  it  into  a  baking- 
pan,  and  bake  slowly.  Use  cold  water  in  summer  and  hot 
water  in  winter. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  61 

Continental  Hotel  Corn  Bread. — Sift  together  a  pound  and 
a  half  wheat  flour,  one  pound  Indian  meal,  two  ounces  Koyal 
Baking  Powder,  and  a  tablespoonf  ul  salt.  Beat  together  three 
ounces  of  sugar,  three  ounces  of  butter,  and  four  eggs;  add 
the  mixture  to  the  flour,  and  make  a  stiff  batter  by  adding 
warm  milk  if  in  winter,  cold  milk  in  summer.  Bake  in 
small  square  moulds. 

Continental  Hotel  Muffins. — Mix  two  and  a  half  pounds 
flour,  three  ounces  Royal  Baking  Powder,  and  tablespoonf  ul 
salt.  Beat  up  three  ounces  of  sugar,  three  ounces  butter, 
and  four  eggs  together  ;  add  to  the  flour,  make  a  batter  with 
milk,  half  fill  the  muffin-rings,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Boston  Brown  Bread.— Sift  together  thoroughly  half  a  pint 
of  flour,  one  pint  corn  meal,  half  a  pint  rye  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  brown  sugar,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder.  Peel,  wash,  and  boil  two  mealy 
potatoes;  rub  them  through  the  sieve,  diluting  with  half  a 
pint  of  water.  When  this  is  quite  cold  use  it  to  make  a 
batter  and  pour  it  into  a  well-greased  mould  having  a  cover. 
Place  it  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Simmer  one  hour 
without  the  water  getting  into  it ;  take  it  out  of  the  water, 
remove  the  cover,  and  finish  cooking  by  baking  about  thirty 
minutes. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread. — One  quart  each  of  milk  and  Indian 
meal,  one  pint  of  rye  meal,  one  cup  of  molasses,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda.     Add  a  little  salt  and  steam  four  hours. 

M.  G.  H. 

Milk  Biscuit. — Take  one-fourth  of  a  pound  butter,  one 
quart  lukewarm  milk,  two  wineglassfnls  yeast,  salt  to  taste, 
and  as  much  flour  as  will  form  the  dough.  Stir  flour  into 
the  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  add  the  yeast.  This 
should  be  done  in  the  evening.  Next  morning  melt  the 
butter  and  pour  it  into  the  sponge;  add  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  dough;  knead  it  well  and  set  it  aside  to  rise.  When 
perfectly  light  roll  it  out  an  inch  thick  and  cut  the  biscuits, 
set  them  in  shallow  baking-pans,  and  set  them  in  a  mode- 


62  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

rately  warm  place  to  rise.     When  they  are  light  brush  beaten 
egg  over  them  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Corn  Cakes. — Scrape  twelve  ears  of  corn,  use  two  eggs,  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  flour 
enough  to  hold  all  together.     Fry  in  hot  fat.  m.  g.  h. 

Fried  Bread  Cakes. — Add  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter, 
three  of  "  A  "  sugar,  four  eggs,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg  to  five  cupfuls  of  dough.  Knead  these 
well  together  with  flour,  and  set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise 
until  very  light.  Knead  the  dough  again  after  it  rises,  and 
cut  it  into  diamond  or  crescent  shaped  cakes;  let  them  rise, 
and  fry  them  in  boiling  fat. 

Pies. — Pie,  and  the  extent  to  which  it  is  consumed  in  this 
country,  have  long  been  a  subject  upon  which  Europeans  tra- 
velling here  have  exercised  their  descriptive  and  imaginative 
powers.  It  seems  to  be  a  cardinal  belief  on  the  other  side 
that  no  meal  is  furnished  here  without  a  superabundance  of 
pie;  that,  even  at  the  best  inns  and  restaurants  in  New 
York,  Boston,  and  Philadelphia,  pie  is  devoured  at  breakfast, 
luncheon,  dinner,  and  supper  ;  that  no  American  would  sit 
down  to  a  table  where  he  could  not  see  plenty  of  pie;  that 
all  the  States  are  closely  connected  and  bound  together  by  a 
prejudice  in  favor  of  pie;  that  it  was  love  of  pie  rather  than 
force  of  patriotism  which,  in  the  civil  war,  preserved  the 
Union.  Sala  is  one  of  the  latest  Englishmen  to  descant  on 
the  omnipresence  and  national  omnivorousness  of  pie.  He 
devotes  ample  space  to  it  in  one  of  his  recent  letters  to  the 
London  Telegraph  ;  admits  that  he  has  eaten  it,  and  that  it 
is  so  very  toothsome  that  it  is  difficult  to  resist  its  tempta- 
tions. He  has  done  what  a  great  many  of  our  own  people 
never  do.  Hundreds  of  families  in  this  and  in  other  cities 
do  not  see  a  pie  from  beginning  to  end  of  the  year.  Thou- 
sands of  natives  have  never  tasted  pie.  In  the  large  towns 
of  the  Middle  States  it  is  but  seldom  put  on  the  table. 
New  England,  indeed,  is  the  region  to  which  pie  is  indige- 
nous, though  even  there  it  is  confined  mainly  to  the  rural 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  63 

districts.  It  appears  odd,  however,  that  Englishmen  should 
so  animadvert  on  our  pies,  as  if  they  had  never  tasted  or 
heard  of  such  things.  They  have  any  quantity  of  pies  at 
home,  but  these  are  meat  pies,  commonly  of  pork  and  mut- 
ton, and  as  hostile  to  gastric  conditions  as  bad  pastry  and 
poor  baking  can  conveniently  make  them.  They  have,  too, 
any  number  of  fruit  pies,  giving  them  the  name  of  tarts,  not 
to  be  compared  with  our  pies.  The  gooseberry  tart,  almost 
as  much  a  British  dish  as  plum-pudding,  is  eaten  from 
Cornwall  to  Northumberland,  and  that  its  eaters  survive  it 
proves  the  strength  and  elasticity  of  the  national  stomach. 
It  is  usually  as  heavy  as  lead  and  a  guarantee  of  indiges- 
tion. The  French  also  have  numberless  pies  under  the  dis- 
guise of  tartes,  but  no  better  than,  often  not  so  good  as, 
ours.  In  truth,  the  American  pie  is  widely  prevalent  in  the 
Old  World,  where,  as  a  rule,  it  is  inferior  to  the  native 
article.  .  new  york  times. 

Puff  Paste. — Good  sweet,  salt  butter,  which  has  been  washed 
in  cold  water,  squeezed  between  the  hands  to  free  it  from 
the  salt,  and  afterwards  wrung  in  a  cloth  to  take  away  all 
the  moisture,  is  the  best  material  that  can  be  used.  The 
consistency  of  the  butter  is  of  much  importance.  If  it  is  too 
hard  it  will  not  easily  mix  with  the  flour,  but  if  it  is  too 
soft  the  paste  will  be  entirely  spoilt  in  consequence  of  the 
butter  breaking  through  the  edges  while  it  is  being  rolled. 
As  the  difficulty  experienced  is  generally  to  get  the  butter 
sufficiently  cool,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  place  "it  upon  ice  before 
using  it  for  the  pastry.  In  hot  weather  the  paste  should  be 
placed  in  a  cool  place  a  few  minutes  between  each  turn.  If 
very  flaky  pastry  is  required,  the  paste  may  be  brushed 
lightly  over  each  time  it  is  rolled  with  white  of  egg.  Sift 
one  pound  of  flour  ;  put  it  on  the  pastry-board.  Make  a 
hole  in  the  centre  ;  add  half  a  teaspoonsful  salt  and  little 
less  than  half  a  pint  of  ice-water.  The  exact  quantity  of 
water  cannot  be  given,  owing  to  the  difference  in  flour,  but 
experience  will  soon  enable  you  to  determine  when  the  paste 
is  sufficiently  stiff.     Mix  it  in  gradually  with  a  knife,  then 


64  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

work  it  lightly  with  the  hands  to  form  a  smooth  paste. 
Have  ready  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Flatten  the 
paste  till  it  is  an  inch  thick ;  lay  the  butter  in  the  centre, 
and  fold  over  the  four  sides  of  the  paste  so  as  to  form  a 
square  and  completely  hide  the  butter.  Leave  this  to  cool  a 
few  minutes,  then  dredge  the  board  and  the  paste  with 
flour,  and  roll  the  paste  out  very  thin,  and  be  especially  care- 
ful that  the  butter  does  not  break  through  the  flour.  Fold 
over  a  third  of  the  length  from  one  end,  and  lay  the  other 
third  upon  it.  This  folding  into  three  is  called  giving  one 
turn.  Let  the  paste  rest  for  a  few  minutes,  then  give  it  two 
more  turns  ;  rest  again,  and  give  it  two  more.  This  will  be 
in  all  five  turns,  and  these  will  generally  be  found  sufficient. 
If,  however,  the  pastry  is  to  be  used  for  patties,  etc.,  six  or 
seven  turns  will  be  required.  Gather  the  paste  together, 
and  it  is  ready  for  use,  and  should  be  baked  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible ;  and  remember  to  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it,  the 
board,  and  rolling-pin  every  time  it  is  rolled,  to  keep  it  from 
sticking.  French  cooks  mix  the  yolks  of  tAvo  eggs  with 
flour  and  water  in  the  first  instance.  If  a  very  rich  paste  is 
required  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  pound  of  flour  may  be  used. 

CASSELL. 

Paste. — One  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a 
pound  of  lard.  With  a  little  water  make  a  dough  of  the 
flour  and  lard  ;  then  roll  it ;  spread  a  portion  of  the  butter 
over  it ;  fold  and  roll  again  ;  add  more  butter,  and  so  on  un- 
til you  have  used  the  half-pound  all  up. 

You  cannot  make  good  paste  out  of  poor  flour.  The 
«  Perfection  New  Process  Flour  "  will  give  you  entire  satis- 
faction. 

Apple-pie. — Make  a  good  cruet  and  cover  your  plates  with 
it.  Pare,  core,  and  cut  up  the  apples  in  small  pieces  ;  put 
them  on  to  etew  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them  ;  quarter 
a  lemon  and  stew  with  the  apples.  When  soft  mash  the  ap- 
ples, remove  the  seeds  if  any,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  flavor 
with  nutmeg  or  ground  cinnamon. 

Sliced  Apple  Pie. — Make  a  good,  light  crust ;  wet  the  edge 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  65 

of  the  pie-plate  and  lay  a  thin  strip  all  round.  Pare,  core, 
and  slice  the  apples  ;  lay  them  on  the  paste  with  a  little  sugar, 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Lay  a  top 
crust  over  the  fruit,  and  bake  nearly  three-quarters  of  an 
hour. 

Apple  Meringue  Pie. — Prepare  the  pie  as  in  the  foregoing 
receipt,  omitting  the  upper  crust,  and  while  the  pie  is  baking 
prepare  a  meringue  by  beating  up  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
with  three  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  to  a  stiff  broth  ;  spread 
two-thirds  of  the  mixture  over  the  fire,  and  put  the  other  third 
into  a  paper  funnel  or  cornucopia,  and  by  squeezing  it  de- 
corate the  pie  according  to  fancy  ;  dust  sugar  over  it.  Re- 
turn it  to  the  oven  to  set  the  meringue. 

Apple-Custard  Pie. — Beat  up  six  eggs  with  a  cupful  of  su- 
gar ;  add  them  to  three  cupfuls  of  stewed  apples  (cold),  and 
add  gradually  a  quart  of  milk  to  the  mixture ;  season  with 
nutmeg ;  cover  the  pie-plate  with  a  good  crust,  with  the 
edge  neatly  arranged;  fill  the  pie  with  the  custard,  and  bake. 

Mince-meat  for  Pie. — Shred  and  chop  very  fine  two  pounds 
of  beef-suet ;  by  dredging  the  suet  occasionally  with  flour  it 
chops  more  easily  and  does  not  clog  ;  boil  slowly,  but 
thoroughly,  two  pounds  of  lean  round  of  beef  and  chop  fine 
(mix  all  the  ingredients  as  they  are  prepared)  ;  stone  and  cut 
fine  two  pounds  of  raisins  ;  wash  and  pick  two  pounds  of  cur- 
rants ;  cut  fine  half  a  pound  of  citron  ;  chop  two  pounds  of 
apples,  weighing  them  after  they  have  been  peeled  and  cored; 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  ground  cinnamon,  a 
grated  nutmeg,  a  saltspoonful  of  allspice,  half  as  much 
cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  essence  of  almonds,  a  pint  of  brandy, 
and  a  pint  of  cider.  This  may  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  all 
winter.     If  too  dry  add  more  cider. 

Manufacturers  are  competing  writh  each  other  in  the  pre- 
paration of  mince-meat  to  such  an  extent  that  it  is  no  lon- 
ger economy  to  prepare  your  mince-meat  at  home.  Most  of 
our  first-class  hotels  use  the  "Thanksgiving  Brand,*'  a  genu- 


66  Valuable  Cool :ing  Receipts. 

ine  New  England  preparation.  It  is  put  tip  in  five  or  ten 
pound  buckets,  and  I  consider  it  a  great  saving  to  families, 
both  in  time  and  materials,  to  secure  their  meat  all  ready 
prepared,  when  they  know  they  can  get  a  reliable  article. 

When  you  are  about  to  make  mince-pies  moisten  the  meat 
with  cider,  port,  brandy,  or  water. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Cut  the  pumpkin  into  strips,  and  stew 
them  in  water  enough  to  cover  them  nicely ;  when  done 
pour  off  the  water  and  press  the  pumpkin  through  a  sieve; 
add  to  the  pulp  two  quarts  of  milk,  and  nine  eggs  to  every 
quart  of  pulp;  sweeten  with  sugar  (beat  the  sugar  and  eggs 
together),  and  season  liberally  with  ginger  and  nutmeg; 
prepare  the  pie-plates  with  a  crust  as  for  custard  pies  ;  rill 
the  plate  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  the  pies  when  cold.  After  drawing  off  the  water  from 
the  pumpkin  cover  the  pot  with  a  towel  and  let  it  stand  half  an 
hour  on  the  back  part  of  the  range  to  dry  out  the  moisture. 

Fruit  Pies. — The  under-paste  for  fruit  pies  may  be  made  of 
flour  and  lard,  but  the  top  is  generally  made  of  good  puff- 
paste  ;  it  may  cover  the  pie  entirely  or  only  in  strips,  accord- 
ing to  fancy.  Should  the  fruit  require  longer  cooking 
than  the  paste,  prepare  it  by  stewing  or  simmering  before 
filling  the  pies  with  it. 

Custard  Pies. — Line  a  well-buttered  pie-plate  with  a  good 
paste  ;  arrange  a  thick  pie  rim  round  the  edge  of  the  plate; 
beat  up  four  eggs  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  gradually  add 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk;  fill  the  pies  while  in  the  oven; 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  them  and  bake  about  twenty 
minutes. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie. — Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  and  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
Eeturn  the  milk  to  the  fire  ;  take  the  juice  of  two  lemons, 
four  eggs,  one  cupful  sugar,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Beat  these  ingredients  together,  and  add  to  the  milk  ;  flavor 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon  and  grated  nutmeg  ; 
pour  the  mixture  into  the  pies  (prepared  as  for  custard  pies) 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  67 

and  bake.  When  done  remove  from  the  oven  and  set  it 
aside.  Whip  up  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  gra- 
dually add  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar ;  spread  two-thirds  of 
the  mixture  on  the  pie,  and  put  the  other  one-third  into  a 
cornucopia,  and  by  squeezing  it  decorate  the  pie  according 
to  fancy.     Return  it  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  set  the 


Lemon  Cream  Pie,  No.  2. — One  tablespoonf  ul  of  corn-starch 
dissolved  in  cold  water,  one  cupful  of  boiling  hot  water,  one 
tablespoonf  ul  of  butter,  one  egg,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon. 
Sweeten  to  taste,  and  set  aside  to  get  cold.  Fill  crust  with 
this  cream,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  M.  G.  h. 

Orange  Pie. — Work  a  teacupful  of  powdered  sugar  and  a 
tablespoonf  ul  of  butter  to  a  cream.  Mix  a  tablespoonf  ul  of 
corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  add  a  teacupful  of 
boiling  water;  let  it  cook  long  enough  to  thicken,  stirring 
constantly  ;  then  pour  the  mixture  on  to  the  butter  and  sugar. 
Grate  the  peel  from  half  an  orange,  and  chop  the  other  half 
fine — first  removing  all  the  inner  white  skin.  Add  this  to 
the  former  ingredients,  also  a  beaten  egg_  and  the  juice  of  an 
orange.  Peel  another  orange,  and  slice  it  in  little  thin  bits, 
being  careful  to  remove  all  the  seeds  and  the  tough  white 
skin.  Line  a  pie-plate  with  nice  paste  and  bake  it  until  just 
done  ;  then  fill  with  the  custard  and  orange  slices,  and  bake 
long  enough  to  cook  the  egg.  A  meringue  made  with  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  two  tablespoonf uls 
of  powdered  sugar,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  will  be  an  im- 
provement. Spread  it  over  the  pie  ;  sift  powdered  sugar  on 
the  top,  and  set  it  .'.gain  in  the  oven  until  slightly  colored. 

English  Plum  Pudding.— Take  six  ounces  of  finely  grated 
bread,  and  mix  with  them  a  pound  of  flour,  a  pound  of  beef 
suet  floured  and  chopped  tine,  a  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  half  a  pound 
of  granulated  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  raisins 
stoned  and  chopped,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  washed 
currants,    two   ounces   each  of   candied   lemon  and  orange 


68  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

peel,  two  ounces  of  citron  shredded,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
apple  chopped  fine,  half  an  ounce  of  mixed  spice,  con- 
sisting of  ground  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  grated  nutmeg, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  fresh  grated  lemon-peel.  Mix 
these  ingredients  thoroughly,  and  work  the  mixture  into  a 
stiff  batter  by  adding  to  it  five  eggs  beaten  up  with  half  a 
pint  of  rich  milk  and  a  gill  of  brandy;  turn  the  mixture 
into  a  floured  towel;  shape  it  nicely;  tie  it  up  not  too  tight- 
ly, but  leave  room  enough  for  it  to  swell.  Put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water,  and  keep  it  boiling  for  five  hours  unin- 
terruptedly. Have  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  ready  to  add  to 
your  saucepan  as  fast  as  the  water  evaporates.  When  done 
sift  powdered  sugar  over  it;  pour  a  little  brandy  or  Jamaica 
rum  round  it;  set  a  match  to  the  liquor,  and  send  it  to  the 
table  with  a  hard  or  brandy  sauce. 

Plum-Pudding  Sauce. — Four  ounces  sugar  and  two  ounces 
butter,  well  creamed  together;  then  beat  an  egg  well  into  it, 
with  two  ounces  of  brandy. 

New  England  Plum  Pudding.— Two  pounds  bread,  four 
quarts  milk,  three  pounds  raisins,  two  grated  nutmegs,  three 
teaspoonfuls  each  of  cinnamon  and  allspice,  eight  eggs, 
one  cup  sugar,  and  one  cup  molasses.     Bake  three  hours. 

M.  G.  H. 

Plain  Plum  Pudding. — Flour  six  ounces  of  suet,  and  chop 
it  fine;  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  the  same 
quantity  of  raisins,  half  a  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful Koyal  Baking  Powder;  sift  a  pound  of  flour  into  the  mix- 
ture; mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly,  and  stir  into  them 
nearly  a  pint  of  milk  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses; 
add  a  little  mixed  spice;  shape  the  pudding  nicely;  tie  it  up 
in  a  floured  towel,  allowing  room  for  it  to  swell,  and  boil 
three  hours. 

Boiled  Pudding. — Take  a  cupful  of  chopped  suet,  a  cupful 
of  grated  bread,  and  a  cupful  of  washed  currants;  mix  with 
two  tablespoonfuls   sugar,  a   teaspoonful  of   grated  lemon- 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  69 

peel,  a  salt-spoonful  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg;  beat  up  two 
eggs  with  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  work  the  mixture  to  a 
light  paste;  wring  some  small  cloths  out  of  boiliug  water, 
flour  them,  and  tie  in  each  a  small  portion  of  the  mixture; 
plunge  them  into  boiling  water,  let  them  boil  quickly  half 
an  hour,  turn  them  out  on  a  hot  dish,  dash  sugar  over  them, 
and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  sweetened  melted  butter, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon-peel,  nutmeg  to  taste  ;  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  brandy  will  improve  it. 

Batter  Pudding. — Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs 
separately,  and  mix  them  with  six  or  eight  ounces  of  flour 
and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt.  Make  the  batter  of  the  proper 
consistency  by  adding  a  little  more  than  a  pint  of  milk;  mix 
carefully;  butter  a  baking-tin,  pour  the  mixture  into  it,  and 
bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.     Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

Vanilla  Sauce. — Put  half  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire;  when  scalding  hot  add  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  and  stir  until  it  is  as  thick  as  boiled  custard;  remove 
the  saucepan  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  add  a  tablespoon - 
ful  of  Thurber's  double  extract  of  vanilla  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk  boiled  with  one 
ounce  of  grated  chocolate;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Boil  thoroughly,  and  stand  aside  to  cool  fifteen 
minutes  ;  then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten  ; 
bake  in  a  pudding-dish  until  it  stiffens  like  custard.  Beat 
the  whites  of  six  eggs,  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar,  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  spread  over  top  of  pudding;  put 
in  oven  and  brown  quickly.  m.  g.  h. 

Crullers. — Half  a  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  cupful  of  butter, 
two  cupfuls  sugar,  and  three  eggs;  beat  up  the  eggs  and  add 
the  sugar  and  milk.  Dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus 
in  a  liitle  hot  water;  add  to  the  mixture,  with  a  teaspoonful 
salt,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  fresh 
ground  cinnamon.  Work  in  as  much  sifted  flour  as  will 
make  a  smooth  dough  ;  mix  thoroughly;  dredge  the  board, 


70  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

rolling-pin,  and  dough  with  flour;  roll  it  out  and  cut  it  in 
rings  or  fingers,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

I  have  recommended  buttermilk  in  the  above  receipt, 
knowing  its  excellent  qualities  ;  but  the  majority  of  house- 
keepers consider  it  utterly  useless.  The  following  from  the 
British  Mail  is  appropriate  here:  "As  the  butter  which  is 
taken  from  the  milk  is  only  the  carbonaceous  or  heat-pro- 
ducing element,  there  are  still  left  in  it  all  the  nourishing 
properties  which  make  it  so  valuable  as  food.  As  a  drink 
for  men  at  work  in  the  hot  sun  buttermilk  is  far  prefer- 
able to  cider,  metheglin,  switchel,  or  any  preparation  of  beer 
whatever,  as  it  is  not  only  cooling  and  refreshing,  but  also 
strength-giving.  Of  course  there  are  plenty  of  people,  who 
are  constantly  dosing  themselves  with  blood-searchers,  liver- 
purifiers,  and  stomach-invigorators,  who  would  laugh  at  the 
mention  of  buttermilk  as  a  medicine,  and  yet  if  they  could 
be  once  persuaded  to  try  drinking  a  glass  of  that  fresh  bever- 
age every  day  they  would  soon  find  a  corrective  of  their  poor 
appetites  and  '  clogged-up'  livers.  In  a  little  book  of 
'  Plain  Directions  for  the  Care  of  the  Sick,'  written  by  an 
intelligent  physician  of  Philadelphia,  who  has  under  his 
medical  supervision  several  charitable  institutions,  we  find 
buttermilk  mentioned  as  being  very  useful,  especially  in 
fevers,  as  an  article  of  diet  for  the  sick." 

Baking  Powder. — I  have  endeavored  to  recommend  to  my 
many  readers  a  few  articles  used  in  cooking  that  my  long 
experience  as  a  caterer  has  taught  me  are  the  best.  A  good 
baking  powder  is  a  very  important  article  to  have  in  every 
household,  but  it  is  difficult  to  get  a  powder  without  the 
presence  of  alum. 

The  Brooklyn  Board  of  Health,  on  motion  of  President 
Crane,  the  Sanitary  Superintendent,  was  directed  to  procure 
samples  of  the  various  kinds  of  baking  powders  sold  in 
Brooklyn,  have  them  analyzed,  and  make  a  report  thereon 
to  the  Board.  Without  going  in  detail  into  the  constitution 
of  baking  powders,  it  will  only  be  necessary  to  say  that  they 
are  made  with  bicarbonate  of  soda,  or  carbonate  of  ammonia, 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  71 

and  cream  of  tartar,  chemically  known  as  the  bitartrate  of 
potassa.  But  the  lack  of  skill,  resulting  in  lumps  of  soda  in 
the  product,  led  manufacturers  to  ascertain  the  proper  pro- 
portion of  these  salts  and  to  mix  them,  selling  the  compound 
as  a  baking  powder.  Some  of  the  manufacturers,  on  account 
of  the  cheapness  of  alum,  have  introduced  it  as  an  ingredient 
into  baking  powder,  and  the  report  of  the  Brooklyn  Board 
concludes  as  follows:  "From  a  careful  examination  we  are 
satisfied  that  the  weight  of  evidence  is  against  the  use  of  alum 
in  baking  powders,  and  that  the  risks  incurred  in  its  use  are 
too  great  to  be  incurred  for  the  sake  of  cheapness  alone. 
The  mucous  membrane  of  the  stomach  and  the  intestinal 
canal  is  a  delicate  structure,  and  materials  which  would  pro- 
duce no  effect  on  the  outside  skin  might  irritate  and  inflame 
these  organs." 

Dr.  Mott,  the  Government  Chemist,  in  his  review  of  the 
subject,  makes  special  mention  of  having  analyzed  the  Royal 
Baking  Powder  and  found  it  composed  of  pure  and  wholesome 
materials.  He  also  advises  the  public  to  avoid  purchasing 
baking  powders  as  sold  loose  or  in  bulk,  as  he  has  found  by 
analyses  of  many  samples  that  the  worst  adulterations  are 
practised  in  this  form.  And  I  may  cheerfully  add  that  our 
first-class  hotels  use  only  the  best  of  everything,  not  only  in 
baking  powders  but  in  every  article  that  enters  their  store- 
rooms, and  that  Royal  Baking  Powder  is  the  only  baking 
powder  they  allow  used  in  then*  bakeries,  it  being  free  from 
alum  and  other  unwholesome  ingredients. 

Roly-Poly  Pudding. — One  quart  of  flour,  one-half  pound 
of  suet  chopped  fine  ;  rub  in  a  little  salt  with  flour,  wet  with 
water,  and  then  roll  it  out  and  spread  any  kind  of  fruit  over 
it.     Roll  up,  put  in  cloth,  and  boil  one  hour.  M.  G.  h. 

Roly-Poly  Lemcn  Pudding.— Take  the  pulp  from  three 
lemons  ;  remove  the  pith  and  add  to  it  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar  ;  boil  twTenty  minutes ;  then  set  the  mixture  to  cool. 
Chop  up  seven  ounces  of  suet,  and  mix  it  with  one  pound 
of  flour,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  water  enough  to  make  a 
paste  ;   roll  it  out  nearly  an  inch  in  thickness ;  spread  the 


72  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

lemon  mixture  upon  it,  and  roll  it  into  a  long  pudding; 
pinch  the  ends  together,  tie  it  in  a  floured  cloth,  put  it  in- 
to boiling  water,  and  boil  constantly  for  two  hours.  Serve 
with  wine-sauce. 

Marlborough  Pudding. — Grate  apples  enough  to  make  eight 
ounces  ;  add  to  this  eight  ounces  of  fine  white  sugar  which 
has  been  well  rubbed  on  the  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  six  well- 
beaten  eggs,  three  tablesj)oonfuls  of  cream,  the  strained  juice 
of  thiee  lemons,  eight  ounces  of  butter;  add  quantity  at 
pleasure  of  orange-flower  water,  and  the  grated  peel  of  an 
orange  and  a  lemon  ;  line  the  pie-dish  with  rich  puff-paste, 
put  in  the  mixture,  and  let  it  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Macaroni  Pudding. — Butter  a  pie-dish,  and  cover  the  bot- 
tom with  two  and  one-half  ounces  uncooked  macaroni ;  pour 
over  it  one  quart  of  cold  milk,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  su- 
gar, stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  flavor  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  (double  extract)  or  any  flavoring  desired. 
Put  bits  of  butter  over  top,  dust  a  little  grated  nutmeg  over 
top,  and  bake  slowly  two  hours  and  a  half. 

Steamed  Arrowroot  Pudding. — Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Beatty's  Bermuda  arrowroot  with  one  cupful  of  milk  ;  flavor 
one  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  with  any  desired  flavoring,  put 
it  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  pour  it  upon  the  arrow- 
root ;  stir  well,  and  when  it  is  cool  add  three  well-beaten 
eggs,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  sugar  and  brandy;  put  it  into 
a  well-buttered  mould,  cover,  and  steam  it  one  hour  and  a 
half;  then  turn  it  out  on  a  dish,  and  arrange  some  preserves 
or  jam  neatly  around  it,  and  serve. 

Almond  Pudding. — Blanch  and  pound,  with  a  little  water, 
three  ounces  of  sweet  and  four  ounces  of  bitter  almonds;  add 
one  pint  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  gra- 
ted nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  smoothly  in  a 
little  cold  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  grated  bread,  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  whisked  to  a  froth  ; 
pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  mould,  cover,  and  boil  quick- 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  73 

ly  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  be- 
fore turning  out  of  mould.     Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

Bachelor's  Pudding. — Beat  up  three  eggs,  flavor  with  es- 
sence of  lemon  and  grated  nutmeg,  and  add  them  to  four 
ounces  each  of  finely-minced  apples,  currants,  grated  bread- 
crumbs, and  two  ounces  of  sugar ;  mix  thoroughly  and  boil 
in  a  buttered  mould  nearly  three  hours.  Serve  with  following 
sauce. 

Wine  Sauce. — Boil  the  thin  rind  of  half  a  lemon  in  one 
wineglassful  of  water  till  the  flavor  is  extracted  ;  then  take 
it  out  and  thicken  the  sauce  by  stirring  into  it  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  rice,  flour,  or  arrowroot  which  has  been  mixed 
in  water  or  milk,  a  walnut  of  butter  ;  boil  a  moment,  then 
add  half  a  tumblerful  of  good  wine  ;  let  the  sauce  get  quite 
hot  without  boiling,  sweeten  a  little,  and  serve  with  the  pud- 
ding. 

Bird's-Nest  Pudding. — Make  the  foundation  of  nest  of  blanc- 
mange or  corn-stare l)  ;  grate  the  rinds  of  three  lemons,  and 
arrange  around  the  blanc-mange  to  represent  straw  ;  extract 
the  contents  of  four  eggs  through  a  small  hole  and  fill  the 
egg-shells  with  hot  blanc-mange  or  corn-starch  ;  when  cold 
break  off  the  shells  and  lay  the  moulded  eggs  in  nest.  Serve 
with  jam  or  preserves. 

Harlan's  Pudding. — Take  three  ounces  each  of  butter, 
sugar,  and  flour;  whisk  two  eggs  thoroughly,  and  gradually 
mix  with  them  the  loaf-sugar,  which  must  be  rubbed  well  on 
the  rind  of  a  lemon  before  it  is  pounded  ;  then  add  the 
flour  and  the  butter  partially  melted,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Butter  insides  of  several  cups  ; 
put  a  little  jam  at  the  bottom  of  each,  and  fill  them  nearly 
full  with  the  mixture;  bake  half  an  hour  ;  turn  them  out 
and  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. — Beat  two  eggs  with  one  cupful  of  new 
milk  ;  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut ;  mix 
with  it  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  grated  bread  and  pow- 


74  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

dered  sugar,  two  ounces  of  melted  butter,  five  ounces  of  rai- 
sins, and  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  grated  lemon-peel ;  beat  the 
whole  well  together  ;  pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  dish, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  ;  then  turn  it  out,  dust  sugar  over 
it,  and  serve.     This  pudding  may  be  either  boiled  or  baked. 

Citron  Pudding. — Sift  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and 
mix  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  six.  eggs ;  add  gradually  one 
pint  of  sweet  cream,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  cut  in 
small  strips,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  mix  thoroughly, 
pour  the  batter  into  buttered  tins,  and  bake  twenty -five 
minutes.     Serve  with  wine  or  vanilla  sauce. 

Eve's  Pudding. — Beat  six  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add 
six  ounces  of  sifted  flour  and  six  of  sugar ;  separate  the 
yolks  from  the  whites  of  four  eggs  ;  beat  them  till  they  are 
light,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  afterwards  the  whites  to 
the  batter;  mix,  and  add  half  a  dozen  pounded  almonds  and 
the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Fill  small  tins  about  half  full ; 
set  them  before  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  and  when  they 
have  risen  place  them  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour.     Serve  with  a  sweet  fruit  sauce. 

Sliced-Apple  Pudding. — Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  arrow- 
root with  one  pint  of  cream  ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar ;  put  in  stew-pan  and  place  over  fire  until  it  boils. 
Slice  thinly  apples  enough  to  fill  a  large-sized  dish,  laying  them 
in  a  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  apples  and  sugar  and  small 
walnuts  of  butter;  pour  on  a  tumblerful  of  jam  as  next  layer, 
and  over  all  pour  mixture  of  arrowroot.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  twenty-five  minutes. 

Astor-House  Pudding. — Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  with 
two  of  milk;  pour  over  it  one  cupful  of  boiling  milk  flavored 
with  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  vanilla;  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  a  walnut  of  butter,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten. 
Line  the  edge  of  pudding-dish  with  a  rich  puff-paste,  and 
fill  the  dish  two-thirds  full  with  slices  of  sponge-cake  over 
which  a  good  jam  has  been  spread  ;  pour  the  custard  over 
them  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven;  when  done  take  out.    Beat 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  75 

up  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  nearly  one  cupful  of  powdered 
sugar  ;  spread  the  meringue  over  the  pudding,  and  sprinkle 
a  little  sugar  over  it  ;  return  it  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  until 
the  meringue  is  fawn-colored,  and  serve  in  dish  with  clean, 
white  napkin  neatly  bound  around  the  sides. 

A  good  wine-sauce  may  be  served  with  it  if  desired. 

Manhattan  Pudding. — Dissolve  a  walnut  of  saleratus  in  one 
tablespoont'ul  of  hot  water;  mix  one  cupful  of  milk,  three 
well-beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour  (mixed  with  cold 
milk),  one  pinch  of  salt,  and  four  ounces  of  chopped  citron  ; 
add  saleratus,  and  mix  all  thoroughly  ;  pour  the  mixture  in- 
to a  buttered  mould,  tie  mould  in  a  floured  cloth,  boil  one 
hour  and  a  half,  turn  out,  and  serve  with  a  fruit-sauce. 

Manioca  Pudding. — Three  tablespoonf  uls  of  manioca,  one 
quart  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
two  well-beaten  eggs  ;  sugar,  spice,  or  flavoring  to  the  taste. 
Mix  manioca  in  half  the  milk  cold,  and,  with  the  butter,  stir 
on  the  fire  until  it  thickens  or  boils  ;  pour  it  quickly  into  a 
dish,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  the  remaining  milk,  and  when 
quite  cool  add  the  eggs,  spice,  and  wine  or  other  flavoring. 
This  pudding  may  be  varied  by  omitting  the  eggs  and  sub- 
stituting currants,  chopped  raisins  or  candied  lemon,  orange 
or  citron  sliced.     Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CAKES. 

English  Christinas  Cake.— Sift  five  pounds  of  flour ;  mix 
with  it  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
butter,  and  half  a  pint  of  fresh  brewer's  yeast  or  five  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  ;  if  yeast  is  used  allow  dough  to 
rise  before  adding  other  ingredients ;  mix  in  three  pounds 
of  washed  currants,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  "A"  sugar,  a 
whole  nutmeg  grated,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chopped 
candied  lemon-peel,  one  wineglassful  of   brandy,  and  four 


76  Valuable  CooJdng  Receipts. 

well-beaten  eggs ;  butter  the  tins  and  line  them  with  but- 
tered paper  ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours.  The 
quantity  of  brandy  recommended  will  serve  to  keep  these 
cakes  fresh  for  an  indefinite  time. 

Apple  Snow. — Eeduce  half  a  dozen  apples  to  a  pulp;  press 
them  through  a  sieve ;  add  half  a  cupful  powdered  sugar 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon  ;  take  the  whites 
of  six  eggs,  whip  them  for  several  minutes,  and  sprinkle  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  over  them  ;  beat  the  apple 
pulp  to  a  froth,  and  add  the  beaten  egg ;  whip  the  mixture 
until  it  looks  like  stiff  snow  ;  then  pile  it  high  in  rough  por- 
tions on  a  glass  dish,  garnish  with  small  spoonfuls  of  currant- 
jelly,  and  stick  a  sprig  of  green  on  top. 

Almond  Cake. — Blanch  and  pound  in  a  mortar  thoroughly 
eight  ounces  of  sweet  and  one  of  bitter  almonds;  add  a  few 
drops  of  rosevvater  or  white  of  egg  every  few  minutes  to 
prevent  oiling  ;  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar  and 
eight  beaten  eggs  ;  sift  in  six  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  work 
it  thoroughly  with  the  mixture,  gradually  add  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  creamed  butter ;  beat  the  mixture  constantly 
while  preparing  the  cake,  or  it  will  be  heavy  ;  pour  the  mix- 
ture into  a  buttered  tin  (place  a  buttered  paper  between  the 
tin  and  the  cake),  allowing  room  for  it  to  rise,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Should  the  oven  prove  too  hot  for  it,  and  the 
cake  be  in  danger  of  burning,  cover  it  with  paper  for  a  few 
minutes. 

Almond  Sponge  Cake. — Take  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar, 
rub  the  rind  of  lemon  on  a  few  of  the  lumps,  and  crush  the 
whole  to  a  powder  ;  separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs,  beat  the  yolks,  and  add  the  sugar  gradually; 
then  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  it  to  the  dish,  and 
sift  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
essence  of  almonds;  butter  and  paper  a  tin,  pour  in  the  mix- 
ture until  the  tin  is  two-thirds  full,  and  bake  one  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  The  bottom  of  the  tin  may  be  studded  with 
small  pieces  of  almonds. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  77 

Zephyr  Cakes. — Excellent  tea-cakes.  Wash  the  salt  out  of 
nearly  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  add  to  it  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  three  well-beaten  eggs,  a 
teaspoonf ul  of  rosewater,  and  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  a 
thin  batter;  stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  the  batter  is 
perfectly  smooth  and  so  light  that  it  will  break  when  it  falls 
against  the  sides  of  the  mixing-bowl  ;  fill  well-buttered 
muffin-moulds  (small)  nearly  half  full  with  the  mixture,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  ;  serve  hot  with  newly-made  butter. 

Columbia  Cake, — Beat  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter 
to  a  cream;  add  gradually  a  pound  of  sugar,  four  well-beaten 
eggs,  a  cupful  of  milk,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  salt  spoonful 
cinnamon,  a  wineglassful  of  brandy,  nearly  two  pounds  of 
flour,  and  half  a  pound  of  washed  currants  ;  beat  these  in- 
gredients together  twenty  minutes.  Dissolve  a  teaspoonf  ul 
of  saleratus  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  and  stir  it  into 
the  mixture  ;  butter  the  pan  and  line  it  with  buttered  paper, 
pour  in  the  cake,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Knickerbocker  Cakes. — Beat  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter 
to  a  cream;  add  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  orange- 
flower  water  and  one  of  brandy,  and  four  ounces  of  washed 
currants  ;  add  five  well-beaten  eggs,  and  beat  the  mixture 
until  very  light.  Line  some  shallow  cake-tins  with  buttered 
paper,  pour  in  the  mixture  until  they  are  half-full,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cup 
each  of  butter  and  milk,  one  cup  of  cocoanut  grated  fine, 
two  cups  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  pans  with  dry  cocoanut  sprinkled  over  the  top  (three 
cakes).  M.  G.  h. 

Olive  Gingerbread. — Five  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two 
cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  half  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, and  two  teaspoonf uls  each  of  soda  and  ginger.  M.  G.  H. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Outside:  Half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups 


78  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

of  sugar,  one  cup  of  cold  water,  three  cups  of  flour,  four 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  and  three  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder.  Inside  ;  Five  tablepoonfuls  of  grated 
chocolate  with  enough  cream  or  milk  to  wet  it,  one  cupful  of 
brown  sugar,  and  one  egg  well  beaten.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
and  then  flavor  with  vanilla.  Cake  is  made  in  layers  like 
jelly  cake.  m.  g.  h. 

Chocolate  Macaroons. — Put  three  ounces  of  plain  choco- 
late in  a  pan,  and  melt,  on  a  slow  fire  ;  then  work  it  to  a 
thick  paste  with  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  ;  roll  the  mixture  down  to  the  thick- 
ness of  about  one-quarter  of  an  inch  ;  cut  it  in  small,  round 
pieces  with  a  paste-cutter,  either  plain  or  scalloped;  butter  a 
pan  slightly,  and  dust  it  with  flour  and  sugar  in  equal  quan- 
tities; place  in  it  the  pieces  of  paste  or  mixture,  and  bake  in 
a  hot  but  not  quick  oven. 

Whortleberry  Cake. — One  quart  of  flour,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  pint  of  berries,  a  little  salt,  and  three  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder.     Mix  stiff  with  milk  like  biscuit. 

M.  G.  H. 

"Whortleberry  Cake,  No.  2. — One  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs, 
one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  milk  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  it;  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  quart  of  ber- 
ries, one  teaspoonful  of  cream-tartar,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.     Bake  in  muffin-rings  or  tins. 

Cocoanut  Pound  Cake. — Beat  half  a  pound  of  butter  to  a 
cream  ;  add  gradually  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  one  pound 
of  powdered  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon -peel,  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  prepared  cocoanut,  four  well-beaten  eggs,  and  a 
cupful  of  milk  ;  mix  thoroughly;  butter  the  tins,  and  line 
them  with  buttered  paper  ;  pour  the  mixture  in  to  the  depth 
of  an  inch  and  a  half,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven.  When 
baked  take  out,  spread  icing  over  them,  and  return  the  cake 
to  the  oven  a  moment  to  dry  the  icing. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  79 

Icing. — One  cupful  white  sugar,  enough  water  to  dissolve 
it;  set  on  the  stove  and  let  it  hoil  until  it  will  "  hair  ";  beat 
the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  pour  the  heated  sugar 
on  the  egg.  and  stir  briskly  until  cool  enough  to  stay  on  the 
cake.  The  icing  should  not  be  applied  until  the  cake  is 
nearly  or  quite  cold.  This  will  frost  the  tops  of  two  com- 
mon-sized cakes. 

Cream  Cake. — Sift  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  three  ounces 
of  creamed  butter;  add  an  even  teaspoonf ul  of  baking  powder, 
two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a 
teaspoonf  ul  of  grated  lemon-peel,  a  cupful  of  cream  that  has 
turned  a  little,  and  beaten  egg.  Mix  the  batter,  pour  it 
into  a  buttered  and  papered  tin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Windsor  Cake. — Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs  sepa- 
rately. Have  ready  the  crumbs  of  three  Vienna  rolls  soaked 
in  milk,  and  squeeze  dry  ;  mix  the  crumbs  with  four  ounces 
of  melted  butter,  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  two  ounces 
crushed  sugar,  with  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  grated  lemon-peel; 
work  the  mixture,  and  add  gradually  two  ounces  each  of 
raisins,  almond  paste,  and  candied  orange-peel.  Next  add 
the  frothed  whites  of  eggs  ;  butter  and  paper  a  shallow  tin, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done  sprinkle  powder- 
ed sugar  over  it.  If  preferred,  chopped  almonds  may  be 
sprinkled  over  the  bottom  of  the  cake-tin  before  adding  the 
cake. 

Ginger  Cup  Cake. — Mix  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar 
with  two  cupfuls  of  warmed  butter;  add  three  well-beaten 
eggs,  a  cupful  of  molasses,  four  heaping  cupfuls  of  flour,  a 
tablespoonful  of  fresh  ground  ginger,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
dissolved  saleratus  ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  pour  into  buttered 
moulds  or  patty  pans.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Macaroons. — Blanch  and  pound  six  ounces  of  sweet  al- 
monds; add  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  the  beaten  whites 
of  six  eggs,  two  ounces  of  rice  flour,  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  brandy  ;  mix  all  well  together,  and  drop  the  mixture  in 
small  quantities  through  a  cornucopia  on  a  sheet  of  confec- 


80  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

tionery  paper,  leaving  a  small  distance  between  each,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  is  best  to  bake  one  little  cake 
at  first,  and  if  it  is  at  all  heavy  add  a  little  more  beaien 
white  of  egg.  A  strip  of  blanched  almond  in  the  middle  of 
each  will  be  an  improvement.  They  should  be  baked  a  fawn 
color. 

Neapolitan  Cake. — Blanch  and  pound  to  a  smooth  paste 
six  ounces  of  sweet  and  one  ounce  of  bitter  almonds;  add  a 
few  drops  of  orange-flower  water  while  pounding  to  pre- 
vent oiling-;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  four  ounces  of  butter  from  which  the  salt  has  been 
extracted,  half  a  pound  of  crushed  loaf-sugar,  ten  ounces  of 
flour;  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six 
eggs  after  the  eggs  have  cooled  a  little.  Roll  the  paste  out 
to  the  thickness  of  about  one-quarter  of  an  inch,  and  stump 
out  into  small  forms  with  a  cake-cutter  ;  lay  them  upon  a 
floured  tin,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven.  When  they  are  done 
take  them  out,  and  when  cold  cover  the  tops  with  a  little 
icing.  Return  them  to  the  oven  one  moment  to  dry  the 
icing. 

Marbled  Cake. — One  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three 
of  flour,  four  well-beaten  eggs,  and  one  cupful  of  milk; 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  dissolve  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  chocolate  with  a  little  cream,  and  mix  with  a  cupful 
of  the  batter  ;  cover  the  bottom  of  your  pan  with  the  batter, 
and  drop  upon  it  in  two  or  three  places  a  spoonful  of  the 
chocolate,  forming  rings,  then  another  layer  of  the  batter, 
and  so  on  until  all  is  used.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Pound  Cake  without  Soda. — One  pound  powdered  sugar, 
half  pound  butter,  eight  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sepa- 
rately and  well ;  ten  ounces  flour,  one  nutmeg ;  bake  one 
hour  or  longer.     Never  fails,  and  will  keep  one  week. 

Lady  Fingers,  No.  1. — Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs 
separately  ;  mix  with  the  yolks  three  ounces  of  flour  and 
three  of  powdered  sugar  ;  add  the  beaten  whites,  and  after- 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  81 

wards  a  gill  of  rose-water  ;  beat  all  together  a  few  minutes  ; 
put  the  mixture  in  a  paper  funnel,  and  squeeze  it  out  into 
the  shape  of  fingers  on  paper  which  has  had  a  little  powdered 
sugar  dusted  over  it ;  dust  a  little  sugar  over  the  fingers ; 
let  them  stand  five  minutes,  then  bake  to  a  fawn-color  in  a 
moderate  oven  ;  fasten  together  after  they  have  been  baked 
with  a  little  white  of  egg.  Keep  them  in  close-covered  tin 
till  wanted. 

Lady  Fingers,  No.  2. — Rub  half  a  pound  of  butter  into  a 
pound  of  flour ;  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  grate  in  the 
rinds  of  two  lemons,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  one  ;  then 
add  three  eggs  ;  make  into  a  roll  the  size  of  the  middle 
finger  ;  it  will  spread  in  the  oven  to  a  thin  cake ;  dip  in 
chocolate  icing. 

Crescents. — Mix  three  ounces  of  rice-flour  with  three 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar ;  add  three  well-beaten  eggs ; 
mix  all  thoroughly,  then  spread  the  mixture  thinly  on  paper 
and  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  it  out,  and  stamp  into 
the  shape  of  crescents ;  cover  each  crescent  with  icing,  and 
return  them  to  the  oven  for  a  minute  or  two  to  dry ;  add  to 
a  portion  of  the  icing  a  little  cochineal,  to  make  some  of  the 
cakes  pink-colored. 

Maids  of  Honor. — One  cup  each  of  sour  and  sweet  milk, 
one  small  cup  of  white  pounded  sugar-candy,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  the  juice  and 
rind  of  one  lemon.  Put  both  kinds  of  milk  together  in  a 
vessel,  which  is  set  in  another,  and  let  it  become  sufficiently 
heated  to  set  the  curd  ;  then  strain  off  the  milk,  rub  the 
curd  through  a  strainer,  add  butter  to  the  curd,  also  sugar- 
candy,  well-beaten  eggs,  and  lemon.  Line  the  little  pans 
with  the  richest  of  paste,  and  fill  with  the  mixture  ;  bake 
until  firm  in  the  centre — from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Charlotte  Russe. — Take  one-fifth  of  a  package  of  gelatine 
and  half  a  cupful  cold  milk  ;  place  in  a  farina  boiler,  and 
stir  gently  over  the  fire  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved  ;  pour 
into  a  dish,  and  place  in  a  cool  room  ;  take  one  pint  of  rich 


82  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

cream  and  whisk  it  with  a  tin  egg-beater  until  it  is  thick  ; 
flavor  the  cream  with  either  vanilla  or  wine,  and  sweeten  to 
taste  ;  when  the  gelatine  is  cool  stiain  carefully  into  the 
prepared  cream  ;  line  a  mould  with  ladyfingers  ;  then  pour 
the  cream  in  carefully  until  it  is  filled ;  cover  with  lady- 
fingers. 

Manioca  Cream. — Three  tahlespoonfuls  of  manioca,  one 
pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  vanilla  and  sugar  to  taste  ;  soak 
the  manioca  in  water  till  soft  ;  boil  the  milk  ;  while 
boiling  stir  in  the  manioca  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
with  the  sugar  ;  when  cooked  sufficiently,  pour  into  a  dish 
to  cool  ;  when  cold,  add  the  vanilla ;  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  till  stiff,  sweeten  and  flavor  them,  and  stir  part  into 
the  pudding,  putting  the  rest  on  top. 

Blanc-Mange. — Blanch  ten  bitter  almonds  with  two  ounces 
of  sweet  almonds,  and  pound  them  to  a  paste  ;  add  by  de- 
grees a  third  of  a  pint  of  cold  water  ;  let  it  stand  till  set- 
tled, and  strain  off  the  almond  milk.  Put  into  a  pint  of 
milk  five  ounces  of  loaf-sugar,  three  inches  of  stick  vanilla, 
and  pour  it  into  an  enamelled  saucepan  ;  boil  slowly  till  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  then  stir  in  an  ounce  of  well-soaked  isin- 
glass ;  strain  into  a  basin  ;  add  the  milk  of  almonds  with  a 
gill  of  cream  ;  remove  the  sticks  of  vanilla,  and  when  cold 
pour  the  mixture  into  individual  moulds  and  place  in  ice- 
box till  wanted. 

Meringues. — Take  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  add 
it  to  the  beaten  whites  of  eight  eggs  (slowly),  until  it  forms 
a  stiff  froth  ;  fill  a  tablespoon  with  the  paste,  and  smooth  it 
with  another  spoon  to  the  desired  shape  ;  sift  a  little  sugar 
over  a  sheet  of  paper,  drop  the  meringues  about  two  inches 
apart;  dust  a  little  sugar  over  them,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  with  door  left  open,  so  they  can  be  watched  constantly ; 
when  fawn-colored,  take  them  out ;  remove  them  from  the 
paper  with  a  thin  knife  ;  scrape  out  of  each  a  little  of  the 
soft  part.  They  may  be  neatly  arranged  around  a  dish  of 
whipped  cream,  or  filled  with  ice-cream.     If  whipped  cream 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  83 

is  used,  they  would  be  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  little 
bright  jelly  inside  each  meringue. 

Macaroon  Basket. — This  is  a  pretty  and  unconventional 
way  of  serving  up  macaroons  with  whipped  cream,  etc. 
Make  a  cement  of  sugar  boiled  to  crackling,  into  which  dip 
the  edges  of  macaroons.  Line  a  two-quart  (deep)  cake- 
pan  with  them,  bottom  and  sides,  taking  care  that  the  edges 
of  macaroons  touch  each  other  firmly ;  also  have  a  care  not 
to  pack  them  so  tightly  in  the  pan  as  to  prevent  easy  re- 
moval. Set  aside  to  dry,  and  when  wanted  lill  with  the  de- 
sired cream,  and  serve  on  a  glass  dish. 

Italian  Cream. — Put  one  ounce  of  soaked  isinglass,  six 
ounces  of  loaf-sugar,  half  a  stick  of  vanilla,  and  one  pint  of 
milk  into  a  saucepan ;  boil  slowly,  and  stir  all  the  time 
until  the  isinglass  is  dissolved  ;  strain  the  mixture,  and 
when  a  little  cool  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  thick  cream.  Beat 
thoroughly  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  a  large  or  individual 
moulds,  and  put  in  ice-box  until  wanted. 

Whipped  Coffee  Cream. — Sweeten  one  pint  of  rich  cream 
rather  liberally;  roast  two  ounces  of  coffee  beans;  when  they 
are  lightly  browned  throw  them  into  the  cream  at  once  and 
let  the  dish  stand  one  hour  before  using ;  strain  and  whip 
the  cream  to  a  firm  froth.  A  teaspoonful  of  powdered  gum- 
arabic,  dissolved  in  a  little  orange-flower  water,  may  be  added 
to  give  the  cream  more  firmness,  if  desired. 

Whipped  Cream  with  Liqueurs. — Proceed  as  with  coffee 
cream,  flavoring  the  cream  before  whipping  with  Curacoa,  Ma- 
raschino, or  any  other  cordial  that  may  be  desired.  Other 
creams  can  be  made  on  the  same  principle  with  chocolate  ex- 
tracts or  highly-flavored  wines. 

Bavarian  Cream. — Whip  one  pint  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  set  in  a  colander  one  minute,  to  allow  unwhipped  portion 
to  drip  away  ;  boil  one  pint  of  milk  with  a  stick  of  vanilla 
and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  until  flavor  is  extracted  ;  then 
take  out  stick  of  vanilla,  and  remove  sauce-pan  from  fire ; 


84  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

- 

add  half  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  that  has  been  soaked  in 
water;  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  when  the 
mixture  has  become  quite  cold  add  the  whipped  cream  gradu- 
ally until  it  is  well  mixed ;  put  into  individual  moulds  a 
teaspoonful  of  some  bright  jelly  or  jam,  then  pour  in  the 
mixture  and  place  in  ice-box  until  wanted.  This  cream  may 
be  flavored  in  any  way  desired. 

Ice-Cream. — Use  only  the  best  materials  for  making  and 
flavoring.  Avoid  using  milk  thickened  with  arrow-root,  corn- 
starch, or  any  farinaceous  substance.  Pure  cream,  ripe  natu- 
ral fruits,  or  the  extracts  of  same,  and  sugar  of  the  purest 
quality,  combine  to  make  a  perfect  ice-cream.  In  the  first 
place  secure  a  good  ice-cream  freezer.  Of  these  several  are 
made.  Without  recommending  any  particular  make,  we 
would  suggest  that  one  be  secured  working  with  a  crank  and 
revolving  dashers.  Next  secure  an  ice-tub,  not  less  than 
eight  inches  greater  in  diameter  than  the  freezer.  See  that 
it  has  a  hole  in  the  side  near  the  bottom,  with  a  plug,  which 
can  be  drawn  at  pleasure,  to  let  off  water  accumulated  from 
melting  ice.  Get  a  spatula  of  hard  wood — not  metal — with 
a  blade  about  twelve  inches  long  and  four  or  five  inches  wide, 
and  oval-shaped  at  end.  This  is  used  to  scrape  off  cream 
which  may  adhere  to  the  sides  of  freezer  in  process  of  freez- 
ing, also  for  working  flavorings  and  fruits  into  cream.  A 
smaller  spade  is  also  necessary  for  mixing  salt  and  ice  together 
and  for  depositing  this  mixture  in  the  intervening  space  be- 
tween can  and  ice- tub.  Ice  must  be  pounded  fine  in  a  coarse, 
strong  bag.  To  freeze  the  cream,  assuming  it  to  be  already 
flavored,  first  pound  up  ice  and  mix  with  it  a  quantity  of  coarse 
salt,  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  the  quantity  of  salt  to 
amount  of  ice  used.  Put  freezing-can  in  centre  of  tub,  taking 
care  that  lid  is  securely  fastened  down,  and  pile  the  mixed  ice 
and  salt  around  it  on  inside  of  tub  to  within  three  inches  of 
top.  First  turn  crank  slowly,  and  as  cream  hardens  increase  the 
speed  until  mixture  is  thoroughly  congealed,  and  revolving 
dashers  are  "frozen  in."  Eemove  the  lid,  take  out  dashers, 
cut  away  the  cream  which  has  adhered  to  the  sides,  and  pro- 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  85 

ceed  to  work  the  mixture  with  the  spatula  until  it  is  smooth 
and  soft  to  the  tongue.  Reinsert  the  dashers,  cover  can 
again,  and  work  crank  until  entire  contents  are  hard  and 
well  set.     It  is  now  ready  to  be  served. 

Vanilla  Cream. — Four  quarts  of  very  rich  cream,  contain- 
ing no  milk ;  split  two  good-sized  vanilla  beans  and  cut  up 
into  small  pieces  ;  two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar  and  four 
fresh  eggs  ;  beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  in  a  porcelain-lined 
dish;  add  the  sugar,  and  stir  both  well  together;  add  the 
cream  and  throw  in  vanilla;  place  on  fire,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  boiling  commences,  but  do  not  retain  it  there 
an  instant  after  that  time;  strain  through  a  hair  sieve,  and 
when  cool  pour  it  into  the  freezer  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Ice-Cream. — Grate  off  the  yellow  rind  of  two  large 
fresh  lemons,  with  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  using  care  not 
to  grate  a  particle  of  the  white,  leathery  pith  beneath ; 
crush  the  sugar  to  a  powder,  strain  over  it  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  ;  add  a  pint  of  rich  cream  ;  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved 
and  freeze. 

Peach  Ice  Cream. — Pound  to  a  pulp  twelve  whole  canned 
peaches  ;  strain  'through  a  hair  sieve  and  add  six  ounces  of 
loaf-sugar  which  has  been  setting  on  fire  to  dissolve  a  few 
minutes  ;  add  one  pint  and  a  half  of  cream  and  a  few  drops 
of  cochineal  to  give  it  a  nice  peach-color ;  freeze.  Fruit 
creams  of  any  kind  can  be  made  in  same  manner. 

Water  Ices. — Lemon  Ice :  Rub  the  rinds  of  six  lemons  upon 
twelve  square  lumps  of  sugar  ;  squeeze  over  them  the  strained 
juice,  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  pint  of  syrup  made  by  boil- 
ing three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  in  nearly  a  pint  of 
water ;  put  in  an  earthen  crock  for  one  hour  and  a  half, 
then  mix,  strain,  and  freeze.  The  ice  will  be  improved  by 
adding  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  with  six 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar.     Serve  in  glasses. 

Apricot  Ice  :  Skin,  divide,  and  stone  six  large  ripe  ap- 
ricots ;  blanch,  pound,  and  add  the  kernels  to  the  fruit, 
with  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  half  a  pint  of  water  and  two 


86  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

ounces  of  clarified  sugar ;  put  in  an  earthen  crock  for  one 
hour  and  a  half,  then  strain  and  mix  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  beaten  to  a  firm  froth  with  four  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar ;  add  this  to  the  prepared  water,  mix  thoroughly,  and 
freeze. 

Orange  Basket.— Eemove  the  fruit  from  interior  of  the 
orange  carefully  by  making  a  small  incision  on  one  side  of 
the  orange,  then  cut  the  skin  into  shape  of  a  basket,  leaving 
about  one  half  an  inch  of  the  stalk  end  for  a  handle.  Fill 
the  basket  with  ices,  ice  creams,  frozen  punches,  whipped 
creams,  jellies,  etc.  They  look  very  pretty  on  a  table.  The 
fruit  portion  of  orange  can  be  utilized  by  removing  the  pith 
and  seeds  and  sending  to  table  sweetened  with  sugar,  or  used 
to  make  orange  ice  cream  or  ices. 

Good  Coffee. — The  following  remarks  addressed  to  the 
trade  by  Messrs.  H.  K.  &  F.  B.  Thurber  &  Co.  are  so  true 
and  brief,  yet  so  comprehensive,  that  I  introduce  them  here  : 

"  Nothing  is  more  generally  desired  or  appreciated,  no- 
thing harder  to  find,  than  a  uniformly  good  cup  of  coffee.  Its 
production  is  generally  considered  an  easy  matter,  but  it  in- 
volves the  observance  of  a  considerable  number  of  conditions 
by  a  considerable  number  of  persons,  and  a  volume  might  be 
written  about  these  and  still  leave  much  to  be  said.  We  will, 
however,  briefly  state  the  most  important  requisites. 

"The  wholesale  dealer  must  exercise  care  and  judgment 
in  his  selections,  as  there  is  almost  as  much  difference  in  the 
flavor  of  coffee  as  there  is  of  tea ;  this  is  especially  true  of 
Mocha,  Java,  Maracaibo,  and  other  fancy  coffees,  of  which 
frequently  the  brightest  and  handsomest  looking  lots  are 
greatly  lacking  in  the  flavor  and  aroma  which  constitute  the 
chief  value  of  coffee,  and  which  can  be  ascertained  only  by 
testing  carefully  each  invoice  purchased.  It  should  be 
roasted  by  a  professional  roaster,  as  this  is  a  very  important 
part  of  the  programme,  and  requires  skill,  experience,  and 
constant  practice.  Expert  roasters  are  usually  experienced 
men  and  command  high  salaries.  A  bad  coffee-roaster  is 
dear  at  any  price,  as  the  coffee  may  be   ruined  or  its  value 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  87 

greatly  injured  by  an  error  in  judgment  or  an  instant's  inat- 
tention. Owing  to  these  circumstances,  in  addition  to  the 
fact  that  in  order  to  do  good  work  it  is  necessary  to  roast  a 
considerable  quantity  at  a  time,  none  of  the  small  hand- 
machines  produce  uniformly  good  results,  and  they  are  only 
to  be  tolerated  where  distance  makes  it  impossible  for  the  re- 
tail merchant  to  obtain  regular  and  (when  not  in  air-tight 
packages)  frequent  supplies  of  the  roasted  article.  How 
much  it  should  be  roasted  is  also  an  important  part  of  the 
question;  for  making  ''black"  or  "French"  coffee,  it 
should  be  roasted  higher  than  usual  (the  French  also  often 
add  a  little  chiccory),  and  some  sections  are  accustomed  to  a 
higher  roast  than  others,  but  as  a  whole  the  customary  New 
York  standard  will  best  suit  the  average  American  palate. 

"  Retail  dealers  should  buy  their  roasted  coffee  of  a  reli- 
able house  that  has  a  reputation  to  sustain,  and  that  cannot 
be  induced  to  cut  down  prices  below  what  they  can  afford  to 
furnish  an  article  that  will  do  them  credit ;  do  not  buy  much 
at  a  time  (unless  in  air-tight  packages),  a  week  or  ten  days' 
supply  is  enough,  and  if  you  are  situated  so  you  can  buy  it 
twice  a  week  so  much  the  better.  Keep  it  in  a  dry  place, 
and,  if  possible,  in  a  tin  can  which  shuts  tightly,  never  in  a 
pine  box  or  bin,  for  the  smell  of  the  wood  is  quickly  absorbed 
by  the  coffee.  Get  your  customers  in  the  habit  of  buying  it 
in  the  berry,  or,  if  they  have  no  mill  at  home  and  want  you 
to  grind  it  for  them  (every  grocer  should  have  a  mill),  grind 
it  pretty  fine,  so  that  when  used  the  strength  is  readily  ex- 
tracted, but  do  not  sell  them  much  at  a  time,  as  it  is  a  neces- 
sity to  have  coffee  freshly  ground. 

"Consumers  should  adopt  the  above  suggestions  to  retail 
dealers — buy  of  a  reliable  dealer  who  will  not  represent  an  in- 
ferior article  as  'Java';  buy  in  small  quantities,  and  buy 
often  ;  keep  it  dry  and  in  a  tightly-closed  tin  can,  or  in  a 
glass  or  earthen  jar.  Have  a  small  '  hand  coffee-mill,'  and 
grind  only  when  ready  to  use  it ;  and  if  during  rainy  weath- 
er the  kernels  become  damp  and  tough,  warm  them  up  in  a 
clean  pot  or  skillet,  but  do  not  scorch  them  ;  this  drives  off 
the  moisture,  restores  the  flavor,  and  makes  it  grind  better. 


88  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

The  grinding  is  an  important  feature  ;  if  ground  too  coarse, 
you  lose  much  of  the  strength  and  aroma  of  the  coffee  ;  if  too 
tine,  it  is  hard  to  make  it  clear,  but  of  the  two  the  latter  is 
least  objectionable  ;  both  the  strength  and  flavor  of  the  coffee, 
however,  is  a  necessity,  and  if  a  little  of  the  finely-powdered 
coffee  flows  out  with  the  liquid  extract,  it  is  clean  and  will 
hurt  nobody.  It  is  better,  however,  to  grind  it  just  right, 
which  is  so  that  the  largest  pieces  will  be  no  larger  than  pin- 
heads. 

"  We  now  come  to  the  important  part  of  making  coffee. 
For  this  there  are  many  receipts  and  formulas,  including  a 
large  number  of  new  and  so-called  improved  coffee  pots,  but 
we  l>ave  never  seen  any  of  the  new  methods  which  in  the  long- 
run  gave  as  satisfactory  results  as  the  following  old-fashioned 
receipt : 

"  Grind  moderately  fine  a  large  cup  of  coffee  ;  break  into  it 
one  egg  with  shell ;  mix  well,  adding  just  enough  cold  water 
to  thoroughly  wet  the  grounds  ;  upon  this  pour  one  pint  of 
boiling  water;  let  it  boil  slowly  for  ten  to  fifteen  minutes, 
and  then  stand  three  minutes  to  settle  ;  pour  through  a  fine 
wire  sieve  into  coffee-pot,  which  should  be  first  ringed  with 
hot  water  ;  this  will  make  enough  for  four  persons.  Coffee 
should  he  served  as  soon  as  made.  At  table  first  rinse  the  cup 
with  hot  water,  put  in  the  sugar,  then  fill  half  full  of  hot 
milk,  add  your  coffee,  and  you  have  a  delicious  beverage  that 
will  be  a  revelation  to  many  poor  mortals  who  have  an  indis- 
tinct remembrance  of  and  an  intense  longing  for  an  ideal  cup 
of  coffee.  If  you  have  cream,  so  much  the  better;  and  in 
that  case  boiling  water  can  be  added  either  in  the  pot  or  cup 
to  make  up  for  the  space  occupied  by  the  milk,  as  above  ;  or 
condensed  milk  will  be  found  a  good  substitute  for  cream. 

"General  remarks. — We  have  thus  briefly  indicated  the  points 
necessary  to  be  observed  in  obtaining  uniformly  good  coffee, 
whether  made  from  Eio,  or  Java,  and  other  mild-flavored 
coffees.  In  the  Eastern  and  Middle  States  Mocha,  Java, 
Maracaibo,  Ceylon,  etc.,  are  most  highly  esteemed  and  gen- 
erally used  ;  but  at  the  West  and  in  the  South  more  Eio  coffee 
is  consumed.   The  coffee  par  excelltnce,  however,  is  a  mixture 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  89 

of  Mocha  and  Java  roasted  together,  and  thus  thoroughly 
blended.  Mocha  alone  is  too  rough  and  acrid  to  suit  many- 
palates,  but  blended  as  above  it  is  certainly  delicious.  In  all 
varieties,  however,  there  is  a  considerable  range  as  to  quality 
and  flavor,  and,  as  before  stated,  the  best  guide  for  the  con- 
sumer is  to  buy  of  a  reliable  dealer,  and  throw  upon  his 
shoulders  the  responsibility  of  furnishing  a  satisfactory  ar- 
ticle. 

"Hotels  and  restaurants  that  desire  good  coffee  should 
make  it  in  small  quantities  and  more  frequently.  It  is  im- 
possible for  coffee  to  be  good  when  it  is  kept  simmering  for 
hours  after  it  is  made." 

"A  Cup  of  Coffee."— The  author  of  "  Salad  for  the  Solitary," 
efo.,  has  so  well  covered  all  the  facts  concerning  the  origin 
and  history  of  this  domestic  beverage  that  little  remains  to 
be  said  ;  but  as  the  establishment  of  the  first  coffee-house  in 
London  is  connected  with  a  curious  anecdote,  perhaps  my 
readers  will  like  to  hear  it. 

Mr.  D.  Edwards,  a  Turkish  merchant,  on  his  return  from 
Smyrna  to  London,  brought  with  him  a  Greek  of  Ragusa, 
named  Pasquet  Rossee,  who  used  to  prepare  coffee  every 
morning  for  his  master.  Edwards's  neighbors,  beginning  to 
appreciate  the  good  qualities  of  this  beverage,  became  so 
numerous  as  visitors  at  breakfast-time  that  in  order  to  get 
rid  of  them  he  ordered  Rossee  to  open  a  coffee-house,  which 
the  latter  did  in  St.  Michael's  Alley,  Oornhill.  This  was  the 
first  coffee-house  in  the  city. 

Now,  taking  its  popularity  as  a  basis,  let  us  laugh  at  the 
doctors  who  maintain  the  theory  that  hot  coffee  irritates  the 
stomach  and  injures  the  nerves.  Let  us  tell  them  that  Vol- 
taire, Fontenelle,  and  Fourcroy,  who  were  great  coffee-drink- 
ers, lived  to  a  good  old  age.  Let  us  laugh,  too,  at  Madame 
Sevigne,  who  predicted  that  coffee  and  Racine  would  be  for- 
gotten together. — Exchange. 


90  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

VEGETABLES. 
Potatoes. — To  boil  a  potato  properly  is  very  naturally  sup- 
posed to  be  a  very  easy  matter,  but  how  seldom  do  we  meet 
with  one  boiled  to  a  proper  turn  ?  In  1873,  while  out  hunting 
in  northwestern  Minnesota,  I  stopped  at  an  old  log-cabin  for 
dinner.  The  proprietor  of  the  hostelry  was  an  old  down- 
East  Yankee,  who,  suffering  from  a  lung  complaint,  had  taken 
his  family  out  West,  and  had  pre-empted  one  hundred  and 
sixty  acres,  there  to  remain  the  rest  of  his  days.  I  had  the 
good  fortune  of  having  a  well-filled  pocket-pistol  of  brandy 
with  me  (to  be  used  for  medicinal  purposes  only),  which  I 
soon  converted  into  milk-punch  while  his  wife  was  preparing 
dinner.  He  was  delighted  with  it,  and  told  me  that  it  was 
the  first  drop  of  spirits  he  had  seen  or  tasted  for  several 
years  (and  I  believed  him,  from  the  manner  in  which  that 
punch  disappeared).  This  set  him  to  telling  me  what  a 
splendid  cook  his  wife  was,  and  that  she  could  beat  "all 
tarnation  a'  biling  taters. "  I  left  him  immediately  and  offered 
my  services  to  madam  as  second  cook,  my  object  being  to 
learn  her  trick  of  boiling  potatoes.  At  last  dinner  was  ready, 
the  cloth  spread,  and  while  the  judge  (as  he  was  called)  set 
the  table  I  looked  for  a  garden  (?)  to  get  a  salad.  Not  finding 
the  cultivated  article,  I  had  to  resort  to  the  field,  and  obtain- 
ed a  few  edible  weeds,  washed  and  dried  them,  and  prepared 
them  for  dinner. 

Our  Bill  of  Fare. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Smoked  Shad  with  drawn  Butter. 

Roast  Rump  of  Salted  Beef. 

Boiled  Potatoes. 

Parsnip  Fritters. 

Weed  Salad. 

Home-made  Cheese.     Cold  Johnny-cake. 

Acorn  Coffee. 

My  long  tramp  over  the  prairie  hunting  prairie-chickens 
may  possibly  have  had  something  to  do  with  my  ferocious 
appetite,  but  I  do  not  remember  an  occasion  when  I  enjoyed 
myself  so  mucli  at  table  or  ate  so  heartily.     The  dinner  was 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  91 

a  success,  and  the  potatoes  surpassed  all  expectations.  I  am 
not  much  of  a  potato-eater,  but  on  this  occasion  I  surprised 
myself  by  asking  for  a  potato  the  third  time. 

Her  receipt  for  boiling  potatoes  was  very  simple.  She 
washed  them  well  and  peeled  off  a  strip  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  wide  lengthwise  round  each  potato,  placed  them  in  an 
old  iron  pot,  covered  them  with  fresh  rain-water  (cold),  and 
added  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  She  allowed  them  to  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  and  then  poured  out  a  quart  of  the  hot  water  and 
added  a  quart  dipperful  of  cold  water.  When  the  edge  of 
the  peel  began  to  curl  up,  she  pronounced  them  done,  and 
removed  them  from  the  pot,  covered  the  bottom  of  a  baking- 
tin  with  them,  placed  them  in  the  oven  with  a  towel  over 
them  for  fifteen  minutes,  with  the  oven-door  open.  They  were 
splendid. 

The  roast  rump  of  salt  beef  was  a  new  dish  to  me,  but  it 
was  very  good.  It  had  stood  in  water  twenty-four  hours  to 
extract  the  salt  from  it.  It  was  a  little  dry  and  a  trifle  too 
well  done. 

My  salad  was  composed  of  a  few  dandelions  that  had  grown 
in  a  shady  spot,  a  few  inch  dock-leaves,  the  tip-ends  of  the 
milk- weed,  and  a  few  wild  chives,  with  bacon  dressing;  but 
I  had  no  vinegar.  As  a  substitute  I  gathered  a  handful  of 
sheep  sorrel,  chopped  it  up  fine,  and  sprinkled  it  over  the 
salad. 

On  my  departure  the  judge  addressed  me  as  Mr.  Weed- 
eater,  and  requested  me  to  make  his  cabin  my  home  when- 
ever I  was  in  Minnesota. 

Cabbage. — Never  buy  overgrown  cabbages.  They  may 
appear  very  pleasing  to  the  eye,  but  they  are  apt  to  be  too 
coarse  and  too  full  of  fibres  to  make  a  palatable  dish.  Do 
not  trim  off  the  outer  leaves  until  the  day  they  are  wanted. 
It  is  a  good  plan  to  purchase  a  few  dozen  heads  of  cabbage 
with  the  stalks  on,  and  hang  them  up  in  the  cellar,  heads 
down  ;  then  cut  them  down  when  wanted.  Cut  the  heads 
into  quarters  ;  trim  off  all  wilted  leaves  ;  cover  them  with  cold 
water  ;  add  a  handful  of  salt,  and  let  them  stand  an  hour 


92  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

before  boiling.  This  process  thoroughly  cleanses  them  from 
insects,  etc.,  that  may  be  concealed  between  the  leaves.  When 
ready  to  boil  cover  "them  with  boiling  water ;  add  a  pea  of 
soda,  a  little  salt,  and  boil  till  tender.  The  old-fashioned 
way  of  boiling  cabbage  and  other  vegetables  for  a  boiled  dinner 
with  the  joint  is  not  to  be  recommended  for  families  outside 
of  the  farm,  as  it  makes  althogether  too  hearty  a  meal  for 
those  taking  but  little  exercise. 

Boiled  Asparagus. — If  the  cut  end  of  asparagus  is  brown  and 
dry  and  the  heads  bent  on  one  side,  the  asparagus  is  stale. 
It  may  be  kept  a  day  or  two  with  the  stalks  in  cold  water, 
but  it  is  much  better  fresh.  Scrape  off  the  white  skin  from 
the  lower  end,  and  cut  the  stalks  of  equal  length ;  let  them 
lie  in  cold  water  until  it  is  time  to  cook  them ;  tie  the 
asparagus  in  small  bundles,  put  them  into  a  pot  with  plenty 
of  water,  and  a  handful  of  salt.  When  the  asparagus  is 
sufficiently  cooked  serve  it  on  toast  with  drawn  butter  or 
with  cream  dressing,  sauce  vinaigrette,  etc. 

Boiled  Artichokes.  —  Soak  the  artichokes  and  wash  them  in 
several  waters ;  cut  the  stalks  even ;  trim  away  the  lower 
leaves,  and  the  ends  of  the  others  ;  boil  in  salted  water  with 
the  tops  downwards,  and  let  them  remain  until  the  leaves  can 
be  easily  drawn  out.  Before  serving  remove  the  choke  and 
send  to  table  with  melted  butter. 

Jerusalem  Artichokes. — Peel  the  artichokes  and  throw 
each  root  into  cold  water  and  vinegar  immediately,  to  preserve 
the  color.  Put  them  into  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt, 
until  sufficiently  tender  for  a  fork  to  pass  through  them 
easily  ;  then  pile  them  on  a  dish,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible 
with  melted  butter  or  white  sauce  poured  over.  Soyer  shaped 
them  like  a  pear,  then  stewed  them  gently  in  three  pints  of 
water  with  two  or  three  onions  thinly  sliced,  one  ounce  of 
salt,  and  one  ounce  of  butter.  He  then  placed  a  border  of 
mashed  potatoes  round  a  dish,  stuck  the  artichokes  in  it  points 
upwards,  poured  over  them  either  white  sauce  or  melted 
butter,  and  put  a  fine  Brussels  sprout  between  each.     It  made 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  93 

a  pretty,  inviting  dish.  Time  to  boil,  about  twenty  minutes. 
They  should  be  tried  with  a  fork  frequently  after  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  as  they  will  become  black  and  tasteless  if  allowed 
to  remain  on  the  lire  longer  than  necessary. 

Brussels  Sprouts. — Pick,  trim,  and  wash  a  number  of 
sprouts  ;  put  them  into  plenty  of  fast- boiling  water.  The 
sudden  immersion  of  the  vegetables  will  check  the  boiling 
for  some  little  time,  but  they  must  be  brought  to  a  boil  as 
quickly  as  possible,  that  they  may  not  lose  their  green  color. 
Add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  pea  of  soda,  and  boil 
very  fast  for  fifteen  minutes.  Lose  no  time  in  draining 
them  when  sufficiently  done  ;  and  serve  plain,  or  with  a  little 
white  sauce  over  the  top. 

Green  Peas. — To  have  green  peas  in  perfection,  care  should 
be  taken  to  obtain  them  young,  freshly-gathered,  and  freshly- 
shelled.  The  condition  of  the  peas  may  be  known  from  the 
appearance  of  the  shells.  When  the  peas  are  young  the 
shells  are  green,  when  newly-gathered  they  are  crisp,  when 
old  they  look  yellow,  and  when  plump  the  peas  are  fine  and 
large.  If  peas  are  shelled  some  hours  before  they  are  cooked 
they  lose  greatly  in  flavor. 

Bottled  Green  Peas. — Shell  the  peas  ;  put  them  into  dry, 
wide-mouthed  bottles,  and  shake  them  together  so  that  they 
may  lie  in  as  little  space  as  possible  ;  cork  the  bottles  closely, 
and  seal  the  corks  ;  bury  the  bottles  in  dry  earth  in  the 
cellar,  and  take  them  up  as  they  are  wanted.  They  will  keep 
three  or  four  months. 

Boiled  Turnips. — Turnips  should  only  be  served  whole  when 
they  are  very  young,  and  then  they  should  be  covered  with 
white  sauce.  When  they  have  reached  any  size  they  should 
be  mashed.  Pare  the  turnips,  and  wash  them ;  if  very  young 
a  little  of  the  green  top  may  be  left  on  ;  if  very  large  they 
should  be  divided  into  halves  or  even  quarters  ;  throw  them 
into  slightly-salted  water,  and  let  them  boil  gently  till  tender ; 
drain  and  serve  them. 


94  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

Carrots. — This  vegetable  is  almost  invariably  sent  to  table 
with  boiled  beef.  When  the  carrots  are  young  they  should 
be  washed  and  brushed,  not  scraped,  before  cooking — and 
old  carrots  also  are  better  prepared  in  this  way — then  rubbed 
with  a  clean  coarse  cloth  after  boiling.  Young  carrots  require 
an  hour  for  cooking,  and  fully-grown  ones  from  one  hour  and 
a  half  to  two  hours.  The  red  is  the  best  part.  In  order  to 
ascertain  if  the  root  is  sufficiently  cooked,  stick  a  fork  into 
it.     When  they  feel  soft  they  are  ready  for  serving. 

Boiled  Celery. — Have  ready  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
with  a  little  salt  in  it.  Wash  the  celery  carefully  ;  cut  off 
the  outer  leaves,  make  the  stalks  even,  and  lay  them  in  small 
bunches  ;  throw  these  into  the  water,  and  let  them  boil 
gently  until  tender,  leaving  the  saucepan  uncovered.  When 
done,  drain,  and  place  them  on  a  piece  of  toast  which  has 
been  dipped  in  the  liquid ;  pour  over  them  a  little  good 
melted  butter,  and  serve. 

Boiled  Spinach. — Take  two  pailfuls  of  spinach,  young  and 
freshly-gathered.  Pick  away  the  stalks,  wash  the  leaves  in 
several  waters,  lift  them  out  with  the  hands  that  the  sand 
or  grit  may  remain  at  the  bottom,  and  drain  them  on  a  sieve. 
Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  as  much  boiling  water  slightly 
salted  as  will  keep  them  from  burning,  and  let  them  boil 
until  tender.  Take  the  spinach  up,  drain  it,  and  press  it 
well ;  chop  it  small,  and  put  it  into  a  clean  saucepan  with  a 
little  pepper  and  salt  and  a  slice  of  fresh  butter;  stir  it  well 
for  five  minutes.     Serve  with  the  yolk  of  hard-boiled  egg. 

Onion. — This  vegetable  may  be  regarded  either  as  a  condi- 
ment or  as  an  article  of  real  nourishment.  By  boiling  it  is 
deprived  of  much  of  its  pungent  volatile  oil,  and  becomes 
agreeable,  mild,  and  nutritious.  There  is  no  vegetable  about 
which  there  is  so  much  diversity  of  opinion  as  there  is  about 
the  onion,  some  persons  liking  a  little  of  it  in  every  dish, 
and  others  objecting  to  it  entirely.  Generally  speaking,  how- 
ever, a  slight  flavoring  of  onion  is  an  improvement  to  the 
majority  of  made  dishes,   but  it  should  not  be  too  strong. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  95 

The  smell  which  arises  from  the  esculent  during  cooking  and 
the  unpleasant  odor  it  imparts  to  the  breath  of  those  who 
partake  of  it  are  the  principal  objections  which  are  urged 
against  it.  The  latter  may  be  partially  remedied  by  eating 
a  little  raw  parsley  before  and  after  it.  When  onions  are 
used  for  stuffing,  the  unpleasant  properties  belonging  to  them 
would  be  considerably  lessened  if  a  lemon,  freed  from  the 
outer  rind  but  covered  as  thickly  as  possible  with  the  white 
skin,  were  put  in  the  midst  of  them,  and  thrown  away  when 
the  dish  is  ready  for  the  table.  Onions  may  be  rendered  much 
milder  if  two  or  three  waters  are  used  in  boiling  them. 
Spanish  onions  are  not  so  strong  as  the  English,  and  are 
generally  considered  superior  in  flavor.  The  largest  are 
the  best. 

Boiled  Beets. — Wash,  but  do  not  cut  them,  as  it  would  de- 
stroy their  sweetness  ;  put  them  on  to  boil  in  a  sufficiency 
of  water,  and  let  them  boil  from  two  to  three  hours,  or  until 
they  are  perfectly  tender ;  then  take  them  up,  peel  and 
slice  them,  and  pour  vinegar  or  melted  butter  over  them. 
The  root  is  excellent  as  a  salad,  and  as  a  garnish  for  other 
salads  it  is  desirable  on  account  of  the  brightness  of  its  color. 

Boiled  Corn. — Strip  the  ears,  pick  off  the  silk,  and  put  them 
in  a  pot  of  water  with  a  little  salt  ;  boil  half  an  hour. 
When  done,  cut  off  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  season  it 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  more  salt  if  necessary,  or  serve  on 
the  ear. 

Oyster-Plant. — Scrape  the  roots  lightly ;  either  cut  them 
into  three-inch  lengths,  or  leave  them  whole,  and  throw  them 
into  water  with  a  little  lemon  till  wanted ;  put  them  into 
boiling  salt  and  water,  and  keep  them  boiling  quickly  till 
tender ;  drain  them,  arrange  on  toast  upon  a  hot  dish,  and 
pour  over  them  good  melted  butter,  white  sauce,  or  sauce 
maitre  d'hotel. 

Boiled  Cauliflower. — Cut  the  stalk  close  to  the  bottom,  and 
pare  away  the  tops  of  the  leaves,  leaving  a  circle  of  shortened 
leafstalks  all  round.     Put  the  cauliflower  head  downwards 


96  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

into  a  little  vinegar  and  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Put  it  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  with  a  tablespoon ful  of 
salt  in  it.  Some  persons  prefer  milk  and  water.  Remove 
the  scum  carefully  as  it  rises  or  the  cauliflower  will  be  dis- 
colored. Boil  till  tender.  This  may  be  ascertained  by  taking 
a  little  piece  of  the  stalk  between  the  finger  and  thumb,  and 
if  it  yields  easily  to  pressure  it  is  ready.  Drain,  and  serve. 
Put  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  cupful  of  cold  water  ;  add  gradually  a  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
mix  smoothly,  boil,  and  strain  over  the  vegetable. 

Boiled  Horse  Radish. — Cut  each  root  into  pieces  two  inches 
in  length,  and  each  piece  into  quarters  ;  boil  in  water  con- 
taining a  little  salt  and  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  vinegar.  When 
tender  drain,  place  the  strips  on  a  napkin,  and  send  to  table 
with  drawn  butter.  This  vegetable  is  seldom  used  except  as 
a  condiment  or  sauce  ingredient.  Although  ignored  in  any 
other  form,  it  is  one  of  the  most  nutritious  and  healthful  of 
all  vegetables.  It  makes  an  excellent  dish  when  used  in  equal 
portions  with  any  vegetables  handled  in  making  fritters. 

Stewed  Cucumber. — Peel  and  quarter  two  cucumbers  length- 
wise ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one  dozen  whole  peppers.  When  tender  take  them  out ; 
place  them  on  toast,  the  edges  of  which  have  been  dipped  in 
water  used  in  stewing.  Pour  drawn  butter  over  them,  well 
"easoned  with  cayenne  pepper,  and  serve. 

Stewed  Dandelion. — The  first  mention  of  this  dish  will  per- 
haps inspire  most  American  people  with  aversion,  but  I  can 
honestly  advise  them  to  try  it.  It  is  an  inexpensive  dish, 
and  easily  obtained  ;  for  fresh  growths  after  showery  weather 
may  be  had  throughout  the  year.  Gather  a  quantity  of  fresh 
dandelion ;  pick  off  all  the  withered  tips  and  hard  parts ; 
shred  them  into  strips,  and  wash  them  free  from  grit ;  put 
the  dandelion  into  a  stewpan  with  a  strip  of  bacon,  and  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  ;  cover  it  with  a  small  quantity 
of  boiling  water,  and  stew  until  tender.  Mash  with  a  wooden 
spoon  ;  stir  in  a  lump  of  butter;  flavor  with  pepper  and  salt, 


Valuable  Cooking  .Receipts.  97 

and  serve  like  spinach.  The  dish  may  be  garnished  in  a 
variety  of  ways,  either  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  sippets  of  fried 
bread,  or  slices  of  boiled  carrot  cut  into  shapes.  It  is  usually 
served  with  white  meats,  as  veal,  sweet-breads,  etc.,  but  it  is 
excellent  as  a  garnish  for  poached  egg?. 

The  following  weeds  are  all  good  greens  if  properly  treated: 
the  milk-weed,  the  different  docks,  fat  hen,  ox-tongue, 
jack-by-rhe-hedge,  sea-holly  (a  substitute. for  asparagus),  sea 
beet,  shepherd's  purse,  sow  thistle,  hawk-weed,  stinging 
nettle,  willow  herb,  pile-wort,  Solomon's  seal,  lamb's  quarter, 
and  a  number  of  other  weeds  common  to  this  country,  and 
known  only  to  a  few.  Once  known  they  would  be  much 
sought  after. 


TABLE  ETIQUETTE. 

The  following  article  from  Harper's  Bazaar  is  so  appro- 
priate under  this  head  that  we  take  the  liberty  of  inserting  it 
entire  : 

"  Table  Etiquette. — There  are  a  few  points  of  table  eti- 
quette not  directly  connected  with  the  giving  and  receiving  of 
dinners  and  teas,  but  which  are  of  the  first  importance,  as  they 
concern  individual  behavior.  We  would  be  inclined  to  think 
every  one  acquainted  with  them,  and  allusion  to  them  a  mat- 
ter of  supererogation  on  our  part,  if  it  were  not  that  we  see 
them  so  frequently  violated.  Those  of  our  reades  who  are, 
or  who  have  always  been,  familiar  with  them  will  perhaps 
pardon  our  speaking  of  them  for  the  sake  of  those  who  are 
not. 

"  We  do  not  expect  to  see  these  gaucheries  in  the  best  society; 
but  there  are  many  people  perfectly  well  fitted  for  the  best 
society  but  for  ignorance  concerning  these  things,  which,  al- 
though trifles  in  themselves,  are  of  such  infinite  importance 
on  the  whole.  For  instance,  where  all  the  requirements  are 
not  fully  known,  if  a  general  cessation  of  conversation  should 
suddenly  supervene  upon  the  serving  of  the  soup,  would  there 
be  silence  in  the  place  ?    Not  at  all ;  the  gap  would  be  filled 


98  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts, 

with  a  continuous  bubbling  sound  from  the  mouth  of  some 
one  or  other  unlucky  wight  whose  mother  never  taught  him 
to  take  soup  properly,  and  who  is  possibly  disturbing  and 
disgusting  all  those  that  do  better,  and  who  know  how  easily 
the  trouble  might  be  avoided.  Soup  is  to  be  taken  from  the 
side  of  the  spoon,  not  from  the  tip,  and  it  is  not  to  be  sucked 
in,  but  the  spoon  being  slightly  tilted,  it  is  rather  poured 
into  the  mouth  than  otherwise,  the  slightest  silent  inhala- 
tion being  sufficient  for  the  rest. 

"Another  generally  neglected  obligation  is  that  of  spreading 
butter  on  one's  bread  as  it  lies  in  one's  plate,  or  but  slightly 
lifted  at  one  end  from  the  plate  ;  it  is  very  frequently  but- 
tered in  the  air,  bitten  in  gouges,  and  still  held  in  the  face 
and  eyes  of  the  table  with  the  marks  of  the  teeth  on  it.  This 
is  certainly  not  altogether  pleasant,  and  it  is  better  to  cut  it 
a  bit  at  a  time,  after  buttering  it,  and  put  piece  by  piece  in 
the  mouth  with  one's  finger  and  thumb. 

"  Let  us  mention  a  few  ti  lings  concerning  the  eating  of  which 
there  is  sometimes  doubt.  A  cream-cake,  and  anything  of 
similar  nature,  should  be  eaten  with  knife  and  fork — never 
bitten.  Asparagus — which  should  always  be  served  on  bread 
or  toast,  so  as  to  absorb  superfluous  moisture — may  be  taken 
from  the  finger  and  thumb  ;  if  it  is  fit  to  be  set  before  you, 
the  whole  of  it  may  be  eaten.  Peas  and  beans,  as  we  all 
know,  require  the  fork  only.  Potatoes,  if  mashed,  should 
be  eaten  with  the  fork.  Green  corn  should  be  eaten  from 
the  cob  ;  but  it  must  be  held  with  a  single  hand,  and  not 
after  the  fashion  of  the  alderman's  wife  at  the  lord  mayor's 
dinner.  French  artichokes  are  to  be  eaten  with  the  fingers, 
slightly  pulled  apart  at  the  top  and  one  of  the  leaves  pulled 
out  with  finger  and  thumb  ;  the  fleshy  end  of  this  leaf  is  then 
dipped  in  the  salad  dressing  served  with  it,  and  only  that 
atom  of  a  paler  color  at  the  bottom  of  the  leaf  is  taken  as  it 
peels  off  between  the  lips,  when  the  dry  portion  is  to  be  laid 
back  in  the  plate.  It  is  always  served  as  a  separate  course 
by  itself ;  a  pretty  hand  looks  very  pretty  indeed  when  fin- 
gering a  French  artichoke.  Celery,  cresses,  radishes,  and  all 
that  sort  of  thing  are,  of  course,  to  be  eaten  from  the  fingers; 


Valuable  Cooking  Jteceijjts.  99 

the  salt  should  be  laid  upon  one's  plate,  not  upon  the  cloth. 
Fish  is  to  be  eaten  with  the  fork,  without  the  assistance  of 
the  knife  ;  a  bit  of  bread  in  the  left  hand  sometimes  helps 
one  to  master  a  refractory  morsel. 

"It  is  best  to  be  very  moderate  in  the  beginning  of  a  dinner, 
as  one  does  not  know  what  is  to  follow,  and  all  the  rest  may 
be  spoiled  for  one  by  an  opposite  course.  We  remember  the 
case  of  a  lady  in  Mexico,  who,  dining  with  the  governor  of 
the  province,  was  served  for  the  first  course  with  a  hash. 
She  was  somewhat  surprised ;  but  it  was  a  very  good  hash, 
and  she  really  made  her  dinner  upon  it.  But  the  next  course 
was  also  hash — there  were  seventeen  courses  of  hash  before 
the  main  dinner,  of  every  delicious  delicacy  under  the  sun, 
made  its  appearance  !  Of  course,  a  tiny  morsel  of  each  hash, 
for  the  sake  of  the  flavoring,  was  all  she  should  have  taken  ; 
as  it  was,  she  sat  afterwards  like  Tantalus. 

"  Berries,  of  course,  are  to  be  eaten  with  a  spoon.  In  Eng- 
land they  are  served  with  their  hulls  on,  and  three  or  four 
are  considered  an  ample  quantity.  But,  then,  in  England 
they  are  many  times  the  size  of  ours  ;  there  they  take  the 
big  berry  by  the  stem,  dip  it  into  powdered  sugar,  and  eat  it 
as  we  do  the  turnip-radish.  It  is  not  proper  to  drink  with  a 
spoon  in  the  cup,  nor  should  one,  by  the  way,  ever  quite 
drain  cup  or  glass.  Spoons  are  sometimes  used  with  pud- 
dings, but  forks  are  the  better  style.  A  spoon  should  never 
be  turned  over  in  the  mouth.  Ladies  have  frequently  an 
affected  way  of  holding  the  knife  half-way  down  its  length, 
as  if  it  were  too  big  for  their  little  hands,  but  this  is  as  awk- 
ward a  way  as  it  is  weak  ;  the  knife  should  be  grasped  freely 
by  the  handle  only,  the  forefinger  being  the  only  one  to  touch 
the  blade,  and  that  only  along  the  back  of  the  blade  at  its 
root,  and  no  further  down.  In  sending  one's  plate  to  be 
helped  a  second  time,  one  should  retain  one's  knife  and  fork, 
for  the  convenience  of  waiter  and  carver.  At  the  conclusion 
of  a  course  where  they  have  been  used,  knife  and  fork  should 
be  laid  side  by  side  on  the  plate — never  crossed  ;  the  old  cus- 
tom of  crossing  them  was  in  obedience  to  an  ancient  religi- 
ous formula.      The  servant  should  offer  everything  at   the 


100  Valuable  Cooking  ^Receipts. 

left  of  the  guest,  that  the  guest  nuiy  be  at  liberty  to  use  the 
right  hand.  If  one  has  been  given  a  napkin  ring,  it  is  ne- 
cessary to  fold  one's  napkin  and  use  the  ring  ;  otherwise  the 
napkin  should  be  left  unfolded.  One's  teeth  are  not  to  be 
picked  at  table;  but  if  it  is  impossible  to  hinder  it,  it  should 
be  done  behind  the  napkin.  One  may  pick  a  bone  at  the  ta- 
ble, but,  as  with  corn,  only  one  hand  is  allowed  to  touch  it  ; 
yet  one  can  usually  get  enough  from  it  with  knife  and  fork, 
which  is  certainly  the  more  elegant  way  of  doing;  and  to 
take  her  teeth  to  it  gives  a  lady  the  look  of  caring  a  little  too 
much  for  the  pleasures  of  the  table  ;  one  is,  however,  on  no 
account  to  suck  one's  fingers  after  it. 

"  Wherever  there  is  any  doubt  as  to  the  best  way  to  do  a 
thing,  it  is  wise  to  follow  that  which  is  the  most  rational,  and 
that  will  almost  invariably  be  found  to  be  the  proper  eti- 
quette. There  is  a  reason  for  everything  in  polite  usage  ;  thus, 
the  reason  why  one  does  not  blow  a  thing  to  cool  it  is  not 
only  that  it  is  an  inelegant  and  vulgar  action  intrinsically, 
but  because  it  may  be  offensive  to  others — cannot  help  being 
so,  indeed  ;  and  it,  moreover,  implies  haste,  which,  whether 
resulting  from  greediness  or  from  a  desire  to  get  away,  is 
equally  rude  and  objectionable.  Everything  else  may  be  as 
easily  traced  to  its  origin  in  the  fit  and  becoming. 

"  If,  to  conclude,  one  seats  one's  self  properly  at  table, 
and  takes  reason  into  account,  one  will  do  tolerably  well. 
One  must  not  pull  one's  chair  too  closely  to  the  table,  for  the 
natural  result  of  that  is  the  inability  to  use  one's  knife  and 
fork  without  inconveniencing  one's  neighbors;  the  elbows 
are  to  be  held  well  in  and  close  to  one's  side,  which  cannot 
be  done  if  the  chair  is  too  near  the  board.  One  must  not  lie 
or  lean  along  the  table,  nor  rest  one's  arms  u])on  it.  Nor  is 
one  to  touch  any  of  the  dishes  ;  if  a  member  of  the  family, 
one  can  exercise  all  the  duties  of  hospitality  through  servants, 
and  wherever  there  are  servants,  neither  family  nor  guests 
are  to  pass  or  help  from  any  dish." 

I  would  here  disclaim  against  the  disgusting  habit  of 
mouth-rinsing  so  prevalent  at  many  dinner-parties.  The 
bad  taste  of  such  a  procedure  seems  to  me  so  evident  that 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  101 

everybody  of  refinement  would  avoid  it.     Yet  I  have  repeat- 
edly seen  it  resorted  to  in  fashionable  society. 


BANQUET    SERVICE. 

The  correct  or  proper  manner  of  taking  care  of  a  number 
of  guests  that  have  assembled  before  the  hour  of  dinner  or 
supper  has  always  been  a  puzzling  problem  to  the  novice  in 
this  line  of  business  ;  but  a  first-class  caterer  will  always  be 
willing  to  help  the  host  oat  of  the  dilemma,  provided  the 
host  does  not  pretend  to  know  more  about  the  business  than 
the  caterer.  It  is  a  very  good  plan  to  have  a  colored  servant 
at  the  door,  another  to  receive  the  coat,  hat,  and  cane,  and 
give  a  paper  check  therefor,  and  still  another  to  usher  the 
guests  to  the  reception-room,  where  they  will  find  the  host 
holding  court  over  a  bowl  of  lemonade  or  a  light  punch.  The 
guests  are  eventually  summoned  to  the  banquet-room,  but  just 
before  they  enter  it  is  "  in  good  form  "  to  serve  them  with  a 
glass  of  plain  Vermouth,  or  a  Vermouth  cocktail,  as  an  ap- 
petizer. White  servants  are  particularly  to  be  recommend- 
ed for  the  dining-room. 

They  then  sit  down  to  a  repast,  served  in  the  following 
order  (assuming  of  course  that  the  table  is  set  for  a  ban- 
quet) : 

No  less  than  three,  or  more  than  five,  oysters  on  the  plate 
of  each  guest  (with  celery  on  table  if  in  season).  The  oyster 
plates  and  forks  are  removed.  Next  serve  the  soups,  with 
a  grated  rusk,  plain  roll,  or  French  bread.  Hors-d'oeuvres, 
or  whets,  are  now  in  order.  Next  serve  the  boiled  releve  ; 
then  the  heavy  entree ;  after  which  serve  the  light  entree. 
Your  guests  will  now  expect  the  punch  Roumaine,  after 
which  serve  a  good  Russian  cigarette  (if  gentlemen  only). 
Then  the  roast  joint  ;  after  which  serve  the  game.  Then 
the  light  salad,  with  a  plain  French  dressing.  Next  the 
sweet  entremet.  The  table  should  now  be  cleared  ;  cheese 
and  hard  cracker  offered  ;  then  the  ices,  with  cake,  etc., 
confectionery,  dessert,  coffee,   liquors  and  cigars.     The  ap- 


102  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

propriate  vegetables  to  be  passed  round  with  each  joint  or 
dish  where  they  naturally  belong. 

The  proper  wines  for  above  banquet  are :  with  oysters, 
white  Burgundies,  Sauternes,  and,  if  no  other  wine  is  at 
hand,  a  bottle  of  still  Moselle  may  be  served  ;  with  the  soup, 
Sherry  and  Madeira  ;  with  the  releves  of  fish,  Hock  wines  ; 
with  the  boiled  joints,  light  Bordeaux:  (claret)  and  Burgun- 
dy wines ;  with  the  entrees,  champagnes  (though  cham- 
pagne may  be  served  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  din- 
ner if  asked  for),  after  the  last  entree  serve  the  punch  Rou- 
maine,  cardinal,  etc.,  with  cigarette  if  desired.  A  Rhenish 
wine  may  be  on  table  to  prepare  the  palate  for  the  roast, 
and  to  counteract  the  sweetness  of  the  punch.  With  the 
roasts  and  game  heavy  Burgundy  and  Bordeaux.  At  many 
English  banquets  port  wine  is  sprinkled  over  the  lettuce, 
and  cheese  and  crackers  are  served  at  the  same  time,  but  it  is 
not  a  modern  custom.  With  the  sweets,  sherry  and  Ma- 
deira. A  spoonful  of  brandy  added  to  the  coffee  will  aid 
digestion. 

A  pony  of  half  green  Chartreuse  and  S.  0.  P.  brandy  is 
excellent  at  the  end  of  a  dinner. 

Serve  the  punch  Roumaine  after  the  last  entree,  and  not 
after  the  roast,  as  I  have  occasionally  seen  it  on  bills  of 
fare. 

Remember  that  venison  cools  rapidly.  Iced  or  cold  wines 
should  not  be  served  with  it.  Hot  plates  should  not  be  for- 
gotten. 

Rhine  wine  takes  kindly  to  boiled  or  roast  ham. 

Have  you  tried  blanched  almonds  sauteed  with  a  little 
butter,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  served  after 
the  cheese  ? 

But  one  might  suggest  in  this  way  indefinitely.  The  sub- 
ject is  inexhaustible. 

Remarks  on  Wines. — A  guest  should  not  be  censured  "  by 
looks  "  from  the  host  if  he  refuses  to  drink  any  other  wine 
than  that  served  with  the  first  course,  provided  it  is  of  a 
good  vintage  and  pleases  his  palate.     Good,  honest  wines 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  103 

should  be  served  at  all  large  entertainments,  but  ''private 
stock"  and  "rare  vintages"  should  be  reserved  for  the  more 
private  affairs,  where  the  guests  are  personal  friends  of  the 
host,  and,  though  not  recognized  as  wine-drinkers,  they  are 
good  judges  of  and  appreciate  thoroughly  a  good  glass  of 
wine.  The  promiscuous  gathering  (with  few  exceptions)  sel- 
dom appreciates  a  rare  bottle  of  still  wine.  Their  ideal 
wine  is  the  champagne.  I  have  often  seen  a  bottle  of  splen- 
did Chateau  Yqueni  and  Johannesberger  pushed  aside  as 
"  stuff  "  the  moment  the  champagne  appeared,  and  by  gentle- 
men whom  I  had  previously  considered  Ion  vivants.  They 
will  tell  you  that  a  wine  with  a  deposit  or  crust  cannot  be 
pure,  and  it  is  only  a  waste  of  time  to  attempt  to  explain  that 
old  wines  without  a  deposit  are  more  or  less  doctored. 

The  host  should  be  censured  for  sending  his  cellar  curiosi- 
ties to  table  when  the  majority  of  the  guests  are  strangers  to 
him. 

On  decanting  wines,  Denman  has  observed:  "  To  fully  de- 
velop the  flavor  and  bouquet  of  any  wine  a  little  gentle  warmth 
is  necessary,  and  it  is  therefore  advisable  that  the  wines  in- 
tended for  immediate  use  should  be  placed  in  a  warmer  tem- 
perature than  that  of  the  cellar";  and  Fin-Bee  adds  "that 
the  dining-room  is  the  proper  place,"  which  is  the  cus- 
tom among  first-class  caterers.  The  heavy  wines  should  re- 
main in  the  dining-room  uncorked  a  few  hours  under  the  su- 
pervision of  a  trusty  person,  for  the  average  waiter  is  partial 
to  good  wine,  and  can  remove  a  bottle  as  dexterously  as  a 
king  of  legerdemain. 

Francatelli  insists  that  the  different  kinds  of  sherries,  ports, 
Maderia,  and  all  Spanish  and  Portuguese  wines  are  improved 
by  being  decanted  several  hours  before  dinner. 

His  advice  and  suggestions  are  proper ;  but  does  it  not 
please  the  eye — is  there  not  an  unwritten  history  in  all  the 
dark  cobwebs,  etc.,  that  cling  with  a  brotherly  affection  to 
the  original  bottle? 

The  favorite  Hocks  with  Americans  are  P.  A.  Mumm's  Jo- 
hannesberg,  Barton  &  Guestier's,  Henkell  &  Co.'s  wines,  and  a 
few   other   well-known   reliable  firms.     Prince   Metternich, 


104  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

Schloss  Johannesberg  wines  are  very  good,  but  "  Blue  Seal  "is 
held  at  too  high  a  figure  ($150  per  case)  to  ever  become  popular. 

P.  A.  Mumm's  Hock  wines  are  favorites,  and  justly  so,  tor 
they  are  entirely  free  from  adulteration. 

At  an  American  banquet  recently  given  in  London,  the  fa- 
vorite wine  was  Heidsieck,  on  the  ground  that  it  was  one  of 
i  he  first  wines  to  find  popular  favor  in  America.  This  in- 
formation will,  no  doubt,  surprise  wine-drinking  Americans, 
for  if  our  custom-house  reports  of  importation  are  reliable, 
we  have  discovered  several  Rheims  wines  that  are  decidedly  su- 
perior to  Heidsieck.  The  importation  in  1879  of  G.  H. 
Mumm's  champagne  alone  was  twenty-two  thousand  five 
hundred  and  twenty-six  cases  more  than  of  any  other  brand. 

Pommery  and  Cliquot  (the  two  widows),  Roederer  dry, 
Moet  &  Chandon,  Imperial,  and  a  few  others  are  all  good 
dinner  wines. 

Sparkling  Hock,  if  properly  handled,  is  a  wine  that  should 
find  favor  in  this  country,  but  the  demand  is  so  limited  that 
it  is  very  apt  to  spoil  before  the  case  is  used  up.  That  made 
from  the  Riesling  grape  is  the  best. 

American  champagnes  (and  it  grieves  me  to  Fay  it)  are  not 
the  proper  wines  to  serve  at  a  banquet  or  dinner  Their  pecu- 
liar acrid  taste  does  not  suit  a  palate  that  has  been  educated 
on  foreign  wines.  They  may  be  served  at  a  banquet  given 
in  a  foreign  country  where  every  dish  and  every  wine  is 
purely  American,  or  sent  to  the  cook  for  his  champagne  (?) 
sauce,  etc.  A  bottle  of  "Cook's  Imperial"  may  be  served 
at  lunch,  and  it  is  proper  enough  at  the  end  of  the  bar  where 
the  crackers  and  cheese  hold  court.  It  finds  favor  with  the 
youth  "seeing  the  sights"  of  a  great  city,  but  not  elsewhere. 

Pierre  Blot,  in  the  Galaxy,  observed  "  that  American  wines 
are  just  as  good  as  foreign  wines  for  the  table  and  for  cooking 
purposes.  Bogus  wines,"  he  said,  "  are  sold  to  native  Ameri- 
cans almost  entirely."  Friend  Blot  evidently  got  in  with  the 
ivrong  crowd  when  he  visited  us. 

The  First  Champagne. — It  happened  that  about  the  year  1668 
the  office  of  cellarer  was  conferred  upon  a  worthy  monk 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  105 

named  Perignon.  Poets  and  roasters,  we  know,  are  born,  and 
not  made  ;  and  this  precursor  of  the  Moets  and  Cliquots,  the 
Heidsiecks  and  the  Munims  of  our  days,  seems  to  have  been 
a  heaven-born  cellarman,  with  a  strong  head  and  a  discrimi- 
nating palate.  The  wine  exacted  from  the  neighboring  cul- 
tivators was  of  all  qualities,  good,  bad,  and  indifferent;  and 
with  the  spirit  of  a  true  Benedictine,  Dom  Perignon  hit 
upon  the  idea  of  "marrying"  the  produce  of  one  vineyard 
with  that  of  another.  He  had  noted  that  one  kind  of  soil 
imparted  fragrance  and  another  generosity,  and  discovered 
that  a  white  wine  could  be  made  from  the  blackest  grapes, 
which  would  keep  good,  instead  of  turning  yellow  and  de- 
generating like  the  wine  obtained  from  white  ones.  More- 
over, the  happy  thought  occurred  to  him  that  a  piece  of  cork 
was  a  much  more  suitable  stopper  for  a  bottle  than  the  flax 
dipped  in  oil  which  had  heretofore  served  that  purpose. 
The  white,  or,  as  it  was  sometimes  styled,  the  gray  wine  of 
Champagne  grew  famous,  and  the  manufacture  spread 
throughout  the  province,  but  that  of  Hautvillers  held  the 
predominance.  The  cellarer,  ever  busy  among  his  vats  and 
presses,  barrels  and  bottles,  alighted  upon  a  discovery  des- 
tined to  be  far  more  important  in  its  results.  He  found 
out  the  way  of  making  an  effervescent  wine,  a  wine  that 
burst  out  of  the  bottle  and  overflowed  the  glass,  that  was 
twice  as  dainty  to  the  taste,  and  twice  as  exhilarating  in  its 
effects.  It  was  at  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century  that 
this  discovery  was  made,  when  the  glory  of  the  Roi  Soleil 
was  on  the  wane,  and  with  it  the  splendor  of  the  court  of 
Versailles.  The  king  for  whose  especial  benefit  liquors  had 
been  invented  found  a  gleam  of  his  youthful  energy  as  he 
sipped  the  creamy,  foaming  vintage  that  enlivened  his  dreary 
tete-a-tete  with  the  widow  of  Scarron.  It  found  its  chief 
patrons,  however,  among  the  bands  of  gay  young  roysterers, 
the  future  roues  of  the  Regency,  whom  the  Due  d'Orleans 
and  the  Due  de  Vendome  had  gathered  round  them  at  the 
Palais  Royal  and  at  Anet.  It  was  at  one  of  the  famous 
soupers  d'Anet  that  the  Marquis  de  Sillery,  who  had  turned 
his  sword  into  a  pruning-knife  and  applied  himself  to  the 


106  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

cultivation  of  his  paternal  vineyards  on  the  principles  incul- 
cated by  the  cellarer  of  St.  Peter's,  first  introduced  the  wine 
bearing  his  name.  The  flower-wreathed  bottles  which,  at  a 
given  signal,  a  dozen  of  blooming  young  damsels  scantily 
draped  in  the  guise  of  Bacchanals  placed  upon  the  table 
were  hailed  with  rapture,  and  thenceforth  sparkling  wine 
was  an  indispensable  adjunct  at  all  the  petits  soupers  of  the 
period.  In  the  highest  circles  the  popping  of  champagne- 
corks  seemed  to  ring  the  knell  of  sadness,  and  the  victories 
of  Marlborough  were  in  a  measure  compensated  for  by  this 
grand  discovery. — London  Society. 


MIXED  DRINKS. 

My  receipts  under  this  head  are  inserted  for  the  benefit  of 
the  gentlemen,  many  of  whom  in  the  course  of  my  experience 
have  bewailed  their  lack  of  knowledge  on  this  point  when 
wishing  to  entertain  their  male  friends  at  home. 

Lemonade. — Take  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  and  reduce  it 
to  a  syrup  with  one  pint  of  water ;  add  the  rind  of  five 
lemons  and  let  stand  an  hour ;  remove  the  rinds  and  add 
the  strained  juice  of  the  lemons;  add  one  bottle  of  "  Apol- 
linaris  "  water,  and  a  block  of  ice  in  centre  of  bowl.  Peel  one 
lemon  and  cut  it  up  into  thin  slices,  divide  each  slice  in  two, 
and  put  in  lemonade.  Claret  or  fine  cordials  may  be  added 
if  desired.     Serve  with  a  piece  of  lemon  in  each  glass. 

Milk  Punch. — For  a  small  party:  Dissolve  half  a  pound 
of  sugar  in  a  little  hot  water  which  has  been  flavored  slightly 
with  a  little  lemon  peel ;  add  the  syrup  to  two  quarts  of 
rich  milk  (cream  is  preferable)  ;  pour  in  one  pint  of  brandy 
and  one  gill  of  Jamaica  rum  ;  mix  thoroughly,  dust  a  little 
grated  nutmeg  over  it,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  Beat  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  little  sugar  and 
float  on  top  of  punch  same  as  with  egg-nogg.  Sprinkle  a 
little  confectionery  sugar  over  froth.  Place  a  small  piece  of 
ice  in  each  tumbler  when  serving. 

Egg-nogg. — For  a   small  party :   Separate  the  yolks  and 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  107 

whites  of  twelve  eggs  ;  beat  the  yolks  thoroughly,  add  two 
heaping  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg ;  beat 
the  whole  together  thoroughly  ;  add  half  a  pint  of  bran- 
dy, half  that  quantity  of  Jamaica  or  Santa  Cruz  rum,  and 
two  quarts  of  rich  milk.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  six  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  float  it  on  top  of  mixture,  and  dust  with 
a  little  confectioner's  sugar.  Place  a  piece  of  ice  in  each 
tumbler  when  serving. 

Hot  Tom  and  Jerry. — Separate  the  yolks  and  whites  often 
eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  up  thoroughly  and  add  gradually  four 
pounds  of  sugar.  Beat  up  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
add  gradually  to  above  mixture.  Flavor  this  batter  with  one 
wineglassful  of  Maraschino  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Put  one 
tablespoonful  of  this  mixture  into  a  china  mug  with  a  wine- 
glassful  of  brandy  and  one  tablespoonful  of  rum,  and  fill  up 
the  mug  with  hot  water,  stir  well  and  dust  a  little  more 
grated  nutmeg  over  it  if  desired.  Sherry  may  be  used 
instead  of  brandy  if  preferred. 

Hot  Apple  Toddy. — Heat  a  tumbler  with  hot  water  ;  throw 
out  the  water  ;  put  in  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  one  wine- 
glassful  of  apple  brandy ;  fill  glass  two-thirds  full  with  hot 
water,  add  one  quarter  of  a  warm  baked  apple,  a  trifle  of 
grated  nutmeg,  and  send  to  table  with  spoon  in  the  glass  and 
some  hard  water  crackers. 

Hot  Spiced  Rum. — Heat  a  glass  with  a  little  hot  water; 
throw  out  the  water ;  put  in  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one 
wineglassful  of  rum,  a  walnut  of  butter,  three  whole  all- 
spice, one  clove,  and  fill  up  with  hot  water.  Dust  a  little 
grated  nutmeg  over  top  if  desired.  Substitute  Scotch  whis- 
key for  rum  if  preferred. 

Santa  Cruz  Punch. — Place  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  water  in  a  tum- 
bler ;  stir  a  few  minutes  to  dissolve  the  sugar  ;  add  a  wine- 
glassful  of  Santa  Cruz  rum  ;  fill  up  the  goblet  with  fine  ice  ; 
add  a  slice  each  of  orange,  lemon,  and  pineapple.  Stir  well 
and  serve  with  straws. 


108  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

The  favorite  brands  of  whiskies  are  the  famous  "Old 
Crow "  Bourbon,  "Hermitage"  and  " Monongahela  Mono- 
gram "  rye. 

Orange  Co.,  N.  Y.,  apple-jack  is  superior  to  that  made 
in  New  Jersey. 

Have  you  tried  the  sherries  from  the  oldest  house  in  Spain 
— Juan  Gmo.  Burdon  ?  They  are  excellent.  Served  with 
our  favorite  dish,  terrapin,  the  epicure  exclaims  :  "  The 
eternal  fitness  of  things  ! " 


PRESERVING,  ETC. 

It  is  not  many  years  since  every  good  housewife  felt 
called  upon  at  least  once  a  year  to  take  a  great  deal  of 
trouble  in  preserving  a  supply  of  fruit  for  use  during  the 
winter  months.  The  purchase  of  fruit-jars,  the  picking,  or 
purchase,  and  sorting  of  fruit,  the  purchase  of  sugar,  the 
boiling  and  preparation  of  the  syrup,  oftentimes  in  the  hot- 
test weather,  was  a  task  which  many  a  good  housewife  looked 
forward  to  with  some  trepidation,  while  the  uncertainties 
attending  the  keeping  qualities  of  the  preserves,  after  they 
were  manufactured,  made  this  a  rather  undesirable  feature 
in  housekeeping. 

Within  a  few  years,  however,  all  this  has  become  unneces- 
sary ;  the  manufacture  of  preserves  on  a  large  scale,  with 
skilled  labor  and  improved  appliances,  has  proven,  as  in 
many  other  branches  of  manufacture,  a  great  success ;  and 
while  there  are  some  thrifty  housewives  who  still  think 
their  "home-made  "  preserves  are  better  than  the  "store" 
article,  it  is  undoubtedly  true  that  the  high-class  preserves, 
such  as  are  sold  by  Thurber,  Park  &  Tilford,  Acker,  Mer- 
rall  &  Condit,  and  other  first-class  grocers,  are  decidedly 
fine,  and  in  a  number  of  cases  far  more  appetizing  and 
delicate  than  the  home-made  article.  I  say  this  with  all 
due  respect  for  the  skill  shown  by  many  careful,  conscien- 
tious housewives  throughout  the  land,  but  in  this  case  the 
doctrine  "  survival  of  the  fittest,"  I  think,  is  quite  applica- 
ble.    Too  many   people   are    apt    to    sit    down,  fold   their 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  109 

hands,  and  disclaim  against  anything  not  made  at  home,  at 
least  as  far  as  preserves  and  candied  fruits  are  concerned. 
The  sword,  I  must  admit,  cuts  buth  ways.  While  I  have 
wrestled  carefully  and  conscientiously  at  many  houses  with 
alleged  preserves  made  at  home,  I  have  suffered  the  "pangs 
of  Tantalus  "  from  atrocious  compounds  put  on  the  market 
by  conscienceless  manufacturers.  For  the  benefit  of  those 
who  desire  to  "  do  up  "  their  own  fruits  I  append  a  few 
trustworthy  receipts.  For  preserving,  the  "Almy  jar"  is 
particularly  to  be  recommended. 

In  using  this  jar,  fill  it  with  the  desired  fruit  while  cold. 
Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  (quantity  as  given  below)  by  boiling 
well  to  prevent  fermentation,  or  it  can  be  put  on  fruit  dry. 
Fill  jar  with  fruit,  pour  sugar  over  it  until  jar  is  full  half- 
way up  the  neck  ;  screw  on  covers  of  jars  without  rubber 
rings  ;  put  a  board  indented  with  holes  in  botton  of  wash- 
boiler  and  stand  jars  on  it  ;  fill  boiler  with  cold  water  up 
to  neck  of  jars  ;  boil  (time  necessary  for  different  fruits  is 
given  below),  then  remove  jars  one  by  one,  take  off  covers, 
fill  with  boiling  water,  put  on  rubber-rings  and  screw  covers 
on  tightly  as  possible.  The  same  process  is  used  in  pre- 
serving all  kinds  of  fruits. 

PREPARING   FRUITS   FOR  PRESERVING. 

Boil  Cherries  moderately 5  minutes. 

"  Raspberries       "       6  " 

"  Blackberries     "       6  " 

"  Plums  "      10 

"  Strawberries    "       8  " 

"  Whortleberries 5  " 

"  Pie-Plant  sliced 10  " 

"  Small  Sour  Pears,  whole 30  " 

"  Bartlett  Pears,  in  halves 20  " 

"  Peaches  "         8  " 

"  Peaches,  whole ,   15  " 

"  Pineapple,  sliced  ^  inch  thick 15  " 

"  Siberian  or  Crab  Apple,  whole 25  " 

"  Sour  Apples,  quartered 10  " 

"  Ripe  Currants 6  " 

"  Wild  Grapes  10  " 

"  Tomatoes  I  90  " 

Pour  into  warm  jars. 


110  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

The  amount  of  sugar  to  a  quart  jar  should  be : 

For  Cherries 6  ounces. 

"  Raspberries 4  " 

"  Lawton  Blackberries 6  " 

"  Field                "           6  " 

"  Strawberries 8  " 

"  Whortleberries 4  " 

"  Quince  10  " 

"  Small  Sour  Pears,  whole 8  " 

"  Wild  Grapes 8  " 

"  Peaches 4  «* 

"  Bartlett  Pears 6  " 

"  Pineapples 6  " 

"  Siberian  or  Crab  Apples 8  " 

"  Plums 8  M 

"  Pie-Plant 10  " 

"  Sour  Apples,  quartered 6  " 

"  Ripe  Currants 8  " 

Cider  may  be  kept  fresh  and  sweet  by  simply  heating  it 
until  it  throws  off  steam,  then  putting 'into  hot  jars  and 
sealing  immediately. 

Apple  Sauce  ready  for  table  use  or  pies  may  be  preserved  by 
putting  in  hot  jars  and  sealing  at  once.  Remember  cold 
fruit  requires  cold  jars,  hot  fruit  requires  hot  jars. 

To  open  the  Jar. — Take  the  blade  of  a  penknife,  or  any 
oth  r  thin  instrument,  and  push  the  rubber  in  towards  the 
neck  at  the  0  on  the  shoulder  of  the  jar.  The  air  will  enter 
and  the  lid  will  easily  unscrew. 

Currant  Jelly. — One  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice.  Squeeze  the  currants  and  boil  juice  twenty 
minutes,  then  add  sugar,  which  should  be  heating  while  the 
juice  boils ;  stir  well  together  until  sugar  is  well  dissolved. 

M.  G.  H. 

Wine  Jelly. — One  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  dissolved  in  one 
pint  of  cold  water,  one  pint  of  wine,  one  quart  of  boiling 
water,  one  quart  of  granulated  sugar,  and  three  lemons. 

M.  G.  H. 

In  making  Jam,  the  first  thing  to  be  looked  after  is  the 
fruit.     As  a  general  rule,  this  should  be  fully  ripe,  fresh, 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  Ill 

sound,  and  scrupulously  clean  and  dry.  It  should  be  gath- 
ered in  the  morning  of  a  sunny  day,  as  it  will  then  possess  its 
finest  flavor.  The  best  sugar  is  the  cheapest ;  indeed,  there 
is  no  economy  in  stinting  the  sugar,  either  as  to  quality  or 
necessary  quantity,  for  inferior  sugar  is  wasted  in  scum,  and 
the  jam  will  not  keep  unless  a  sufficient  proportion  of  sugar 
is  boiled  with  the  fruit.  At  the  same  time  too  large  a  pro- 
portion of  sugar  will  destroy  the  natural  flavor  of  the  fruit, 
and  in  all  probability  make  the  jam  candy.  The  sugar 
should  be  dried  and  broken  up  into  small  pieces  before  it  is 
mixed  with  the  fruit.  If  it  is  left  in  large  lumps  it  will  be 
a  long  time  in  dissolving,  and  if  it  is  crushed  to  powder  it 
will  make  the  jam  look  thick  instead  of  clear  and  bright. 
The  quantity  to  be  used  must  depend  in  every  instance  on 
the  nature  of  the  fruit.  Fruit  is  generally  boiled  in  a  brass 
or  copper  pan  uncovered,  and  this  should  be  kept  perfectly 
bright  and  clean.  Great  care  should  be  taken  not  to  place 
the  pan  flat  upon  the  fire,  as  this  will  be  likely  to  make  the 
jam  burn  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  If  it  cannot  be  placed 
upon  a  stove- plate,  set  it  upon  a  slab  of  soap-stone  or  marble 
over  the  fire.  Glass  jars  are  much  the  best  for  jam,  as 
through  them  the  condition  of  the  fruit  can  be  observed. 
Whatever  jars  are  used,  however,  the  jam  should  be  examined 
every  three  weeks  for  the  first  two  months,  and  if  there  are 
any  signs  of  either  mould  or  fermentation  it  should  be 
boiled  over  again.  If  you  do  not  want  to  use  the  patent 
glass  jar,  the  best  way  to  cover  jam  is  to  lay  a  piece  of  paper 
the  size  of  the  jar  upon  the  jam,  to  stretch  over  the  top  a 
piece  of  writing-paper  or  tissue-paper  which  has  been  dipped 
in  white  of  e^g,  and  to  press  the  sides  closely  down.  When 
dry,  this  paper  will  be  stiff  and  tight  like  a  drum.  The 
strict  economist  may  use  gum  dissolved  in  water  instead  of 
white  of  egg.  The  object  aimed  at  is  to  exclude  the  air  en- 
tirely. Jam  should  be  stored  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  but  not  in 
one  into  which  fresh  air  never  enters.  Damp  has  a  tenden- 
cy to  make  the  fruit  go  mouldy  and  heat  to  make  it  fer- 
ment. Some  cooks  cover  the  jam  as  soon  as  possible  after  it 
is  poured  out,  but  the  generally-approved  plan  is  to  let  the 


112  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

fruit  grow  cold  before  covering  it.  In  making  jam,  contin- 
ual watchfulness  is  required,  as  the  result  of  live  minutes' 
inattention  may  be  loss  and  disappointment. 

Canning  Tomatoes. — Scald  your  tomatoes;  remove  the  skins, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  put  in  a  porcelain  -kettle,  salt  to  taste, 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes  ;  have  tin  cans  filled  with  hot  water  ; 
pour  the  water  out  and  fill  with  tomatoes  ;  solder  tops  on  im- 
mediately with  shellac  and  rosin  melted  together,  m.  g.  h. 

In  canning,  it  is  customary  at  hotels  to  follow  the  same 
process  as  in  preserving,  with  the  exception  that  not  nearly 
so  much  sugar  is  used. 

To  Can  Quinces. — Cut  the  quinces  into  thin  slices  like  ap- 
ples for  pies.  To  one  quart  jarful  of  quince  take  a  coffee- 
saucer  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  a  coffee-cup  of  water  ;  put 
the  sugar  and  water  on  the  fire,  and  when  boiling  put  in  the 
quinces;  have  ready  the  jars  with  their  fastenings,  stand  the 
jars  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  on  the  stove,  and  when  the 
quince  is  clear  and  tender  put  rapidly  into  the  jars,  fruit  and 
syrup  together.  The  jars  must  be  filled  so  that  the  syrup 
overflows,  and  fastened  up  tight  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle. — One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced,  six 
large  onions  sliced,  one  tea-cup  of  salt  over  both  ;  mix  tho- 
roughly and  let  remain  over-night;  pour  off  liquor  in  (he 
morning  and  throw  it  away  ;  mix  two  quarts  of  water  and  one 
of  vinegar,  and  boil  twenty  minutes  ;  drain  and  throw  liquor 
away  ;  take  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two 
tabl'cspoonfuls  each  of  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon,  ginger,  and 
mustard,  and  twelve  green  peppers  chopped  fine  ;  boil  from 
one  to  two  hours.    Put  away  in  a  stone  crock.         M.  G.  H. 

Chili  Sauce. — Eight  quarts  tomatoes,  three  cups  of  peppers, 
two  cups  of  onions,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  salt,  one 
and  one-half  quarts  of  vinegar,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves, 
same  quantity  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  ginger 
and  nutmeg ;  boil  three  hours  ;  chop  tomatoes,  peppers, 
and  onions  very  fine  ;  bottle  up  and  seal.  M.  g.  h. 

Hot  Sauce. — Six  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar,  twotablespoonfuls 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  113 

of  butter,  one  egg ;  beat  butter,  sugar,  and  yolks  together, 
the  white,  beaten  to  a  stiff  truth;  add  a  teaeupful  of  boiling 
water  and  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  vanilla.  m.  g.  h. 

The  best  way  to  prepare  a  new  iron  kettle  for  use  is  to  fill 
it  with  clean  potato  parings  ;  boil  them  for  an  hour  or  more, 
then  wash  the  kettle  with  hot  water,  wipe  it  dry,  and  rub  it 
with  a  little  lard  ;  repeat  the  rubbing  for  half  a  dozen  times 
after  using.  In  this  way  you  will  prevent  rust  and  all  the 
annoyances  liable  to  occur  in  the  use  of  a  new  kettle. 

A  new  antiseptic  is  described  by  the  Journal  of  Chemistry, 
It  is  a  double  salt  of  borate  of  potassium  and  sodium  ;  and  is 
made  by  dissolving  in  water  equal  portions  of  chloride  of  po- 
tassium, nitrate  of  sodium,  and  boracic  acid,  filtering  and 
evaporating  to  dryness.  It  does  not  give  a  bad  taste  to  food. 
Butter  may  be  kept  sweet  by  it  at  ordinary  temperatures  for 
a  week.  Meat,  game,  etc.,  dipped  in  a  weak  solution  remain 
pure  for  a  long  time.  A  piece  of  meat  well  rubbed  with  the 
salt  and  laid  away  two  years  ago  is  now  in  perfectly  good 
condition.  Eggs  dipped  in  a  solution  of  this  antiseptic  re- 
main good  for  a  long  period. 

Morning  Tonic. — An  agreeable  and  effective  tonic  for  the 
correction  of  any  discomfort  arising  from  a  too  heavy  supper 
the  night  before  may  be  taken  in  the  morning  before  break- 
fast, as  follows  :  One  wineglassful  of  "Hunyadi  Water,"  fif- 
teen minutes  afterward  a  goblet  of  "  Apollinaris  Water  ";  wait 
half  an  hour  before  breakfasting.  The  use  of  any  alcoholic 
beverages  before  breakfast,  such  as  cocktails,  etc.,  is  to  be 
deprecated,  as,  aside  from  any  moral  point,  it  tends  to  pro- 
mote indigestion,  creates  a  false  appetite,  and  is  in  every 
way  injurious  to  the  system.  The  man  who  resorts  to  it  for 
"toning  up,"  or  as  an  "appetizer,"  deceives  himself. 

Dyspepsia  Cure. — One-half  an  ounce  each  of  pepsin  and 
bismuth,  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  cubebs,  and  two  and  a  half 
grains  lime  ;  mix  well  and  take  a  pinch  of  the  powder  fifteen 
minutes  after  each  meal.  I  have  never  known  this  remedy 
to  fail  when  tried.  t.  j.  m. 


114  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

MENUS. 

My  object  in  introducing  the  following  menus  is  to  serve 
a  double  purpose  :  first,  to  show  progress  made  in  the  art  of 
constructing  menus  in  the  past  thirty  years — for  it  is  an  art, 
and  a  very  important  one,  too — among  leading  caterers  ;  and 
second,  to  furnish  hints  to  all  who  may  wish  to  give  dinners 
or  suppers  more  or  less  elaborate.  It  has  often  happened  in 
my  experience  that  customers  would  submit  to  me  bills  of 
fare  constructed  by  another  caterer  in  the  event  of  a  pros- 
pective "spread,"  and  say  there  was  something  about  it 
they  did  not  like,  some  dish  they  would  like  to  substitute, 
etc.  In  this  small  space  I  have  only  attempted  to  give  a  few 
of  the  many  thousand  varieties  in  my  collection,  but  I  now 
have  in  preparation  a  volume  embodying  bills  of  fare,  esti- 
mates for  cost  of  different  bills  based  on  number  of  guests  to 
be  seated,  together  with  a  glossary  or  dictionary  of  French 
idioms  and  words  used  in  menus  and  the  reason  of  their 
adoption.  The  use  of  any  but  our  own  language  on  bills  of 
fare  ought  to  be  avoided,  but  there  are  cases  where  it  is  im- 
possible, and  it  is  with  the  view  of  enlightening  those  who 
cannot  understand  the  meaning  of  French  terms  used,  and 
yet  shrink  from  displaying  their  lack  of  knowledge,  that  I 
have  devoted  my  time  to  the  construction  of  a  glossary. 


DINNER  ON  THE  ANNIVERSARY  OF  THE  BIRTH  OF 
DANIEL  WEBSTER. 

At  the  Revere  House,  Boston,  Friday,  Jan.  18,  1856. 


Oysters  on  Shell. 

Soup. 

Mock  Turtle.  Tomato.  Fish  Chowder. 

Fish. 

Boiled  Cod's  Head  and  Oysters. 

Fried  Sea  Trout  with  Rashers  of  Pork. 

Baked  Striped  Bass,  Stuffed,  Claret  Sauce. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  115 

Removes. 

Roast  Turkey.  Boiled  Turkey  and  Oyster  Sauce. 

Roast  Sirloin  of  Beef.  Boiled  Capons  and  Pork,  Celery  Sauce. 

Roast  Mongrel  Geese  from  Marshfield. 
Boiled  Leg  English  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce. 

Roast  Westphalia  Ham,  Champagne  Sauce. 

Cold  Ornamental  Dishes. 

Boar's  Head  on  a  Socle,  Decorated. 

Lobster  Salad,  Garnished,  in  Jelly.     Galatine  of  Turkey  with  Truffles. 

Quail  with  Plumage,  on  Form.         Boned  Chicken  with  Truffles. 

Pate  of  Liver  in  Jelly.  Aspic  of  Oysters,  a  la  Royale. 

Entrees. 

Macaroni  a  la  Anizine.  Mutton  Cutlets,  Breaded. 

Venison  Steak,  Jelly  Sauce.  Vol  au  Vent,  a  la  Financiere. 

Arcade  of  Partridge  with  Olives. 

Terrapin,  Stewed,  Port  Wine  Sauce. 

Fillets  of  Black  Grouse  with  Truffles. 

Sweetbreads,  Larded,  with  Green  Peas. 

Veal  Cutlets,  Larded,  Tomato  Sauce. 

Mutton  Kidneys,  Champagne  Sauce.. 

Fillet  of  Beef  with  Mushrooms.  Turban  of  Fillets  of  Chicken. 

Calf  s  Head,  Turtle  Sauce.         Oysters  Fried  in  Crumbs. 

Tripe,  Webster  Style. 

Game. 

Gray  Ducks.  Canvas-Back  Ducks.  Black  Ducks. 

Widgeons.  Partridge.         Red  Heads.         Prairie  Grouse. 

Quail.        English  Pheasants.        Teal.        Brant. 

Meringue  Baskets.        Omelet  Soufflee.        Blanc-Mange.        Pastry. 
Creams.        Confectionery.        Wine  Jelly.        Charlotte  Russe. 

ORNAMENTS. 

Dessert 

Lemon  Ice-Cream.        Fruit.        Frozen  Plum-Pudding. 
Roman  Punch.        Bon-Bon  Glace. 

Coffee  and  Liqueurs. 


116 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 


BANQUET  AT  THE  TENTH  ANNUAL  REUNION  OF   THE 
SOCIETY  OF  THE  ARMY  OF  THE  CUMBERLAND. 

Friday,  July  7,  1876,  St.  George's  Hall,  Philadelphia. 

President. — Lieut.- Gen.  Philip  H.  Sheridan. 

Soup. 

Green  Turtle,  Sherry  Wine. 

Fish. 

Salmon — Lobster  Sauce,  Iced  Cucumbers,  Haut  Bareac. 

Roast. 

Spring  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce.  Fillet  de  Bceuf,  with  Mushrooms. 

Geisler  Blue  Seal  Champagne. 

Vegetables. 

Potatoes.  Peas.  Tomatoes.  Cauliflower. 

Entrees. 

Sweetbreads  and  Peas.  Chicken  Croquettes. 

Salad. 

Lobster. 

Dessert. 

Ices.  Meringues.  Fruit.  Claret  Wine.  Coffee. 

Brandy.  Whiskey.  Cigars. 


The  President  of  the  U.  S., 

George  H.  Thomas, 

The  Army  and  Navy, 

The  Volunteers,    . 

The  Army  of  the  Cumberland, 

Sherman's  Army,  . 

Our  Departed  Comrades, 


Toasts. 


Gen.  J.  S.  Fullerton. 
Gen.  J.  A.  Garfield. 
Gen.  W.  T.  Sherman. 
Gen.  J.  P.  Bankson. 
Gen.  C.  H.  Grosvenor. 
Major  W.  H.  Lambert. 
Gen.  Wm.  Cogswell. 


BANQUET   AND    RECEPTION    TO    HON.    MATTHEW   S. 

QUAY. 

November  23, 1878. 

Second  only  to  the  entertainment  given  to  Grand  Duke  Alexis,  in 
1869,  was  the  reception  and  banquet  tendered  to  Hon.  Matthew  S. 
Quay,  late  chairman  of  the  Republican  State  Committee,  by  the 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  117 

Union  Republican  Club,  yesterday  afternoon  and  evening,  at  the  club- 
rooms  and  banqueting-room  of  the  Continental  Hotel.  The  recep- 
tion ceremonies  commenced  promptly  at  the  hour  of  five  o'clock,  at 
the  club-rooms,  President  Addicks  officiating,  and  continued  until  seven 
o'clock,  when  the  members  of  the  club  to  the  number  of  1 12,  accom- 
panied by  twenty-five  invited  guests,  and  the  grandest  display  of  fire- 
works ever  witnessed  in  this  city,  repaired  to  the  banqueting-room  of 
the  Continental  Hotel. 

At  precisely  eight  o'clock  the  party  assembled  sat  down  to  the  most 
sumptuous  banquet  ever  prepared  in  this  city,  and  it  was  not  until  10 
o'clock  that  the  lengthy  bill  of  fare  was  disposed  of.  At  the  latter 
hour  Mr.  Rufus  E.  Shapley,  the  toastmaster  of  the  evening,  an- 
nounced the  first  toast,  to  which  the  honored  guest  of  the  occasion, 
Hon.  M.  S.  Quay,  fittingly  responded.  He  was  followed  by  Hon. 
Morton  McMichael,  and  ex-Governor  Thomas  L.  Young,  of  Ohio, 
responded  to  the  toast  of  "the  President  of  the  United  States."  Gov- 
ernor Hartranft  followed,  and  succeeding  him  came  Governor-elect 
Hoyt,  who,  after  an  excellent  speech,  introduced  General  Adam  E. 
King,  of  Baltimore,  who  made  one  of  the  best  speeches  of  the  even- 
ing. Hon.  Galusha  A.  Grow  followed  in  a  lengthy  speech,  and  he 
was  followed  by  General  Palmer,  of  Wilkesbarre.  Speeches  were 
also  made  by  Colonel  Norris  and  others,  until  the  hour  of  twelve 
o'clock  arrived,  when  the  party  dispersed. 

Carl  Sentz's  band  furnished  the  music  for  the  occasion,  while  Mr. 
Murrey  superintended  the  banquet.  One  of  the  chief  features  of  the 
banquet  was  the  bill  of  fare,  which  was  certainly  the  handsomest  and 
most  costly  of  any  ever  gotten  up  in  this  city,  and,  as  a  souvenir,  will 
long  be  treasured  by  all  who  participated  on  the  occasion. 

Prominent  among  those  present  were  Governor  Hartranft,  Gover- 
nor-elect Hoyt,  ex-Governor  Young,  of  Ohio,  Hon.  Galusha  A.  Grow, 
Mayor  Stokley,  ex-Mayor  McMichael,  Judges  Yerkes,  Thayer,  Briggs, 
and  Ashman,  Gen.  McCartney,  Gen.  Palmer,  Gen.  Owen,  Hon.  B. 
H.  Brewster,  Attorney-General  Lear,  Hon.  Butterworlh,  First  Con- 
gressional district  of  Ohio,  Gen.  Bingham,  James  McManes,  Esq., 
United  States  District- Attorney  Valentine,  Lieutenant-Governor- 
elect  C.  W.  Stone,  Messrs.  Leeds,  Hill,  Thomas  J.  Smith,  Henry 
Bumm,  and  Colonel  Norris. 

Menu. 

Blue  Point  Oysters.  Chablis. 

Green  Turtle.  Colbert. 

Sherry. 

Pates  a  la  Reine. 


118  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

Salmon  Sauce,  Hollandaise. 

Filet  of  English  Sole,  a  l'Allemande.  Potato  Croquette. 

Marcobrunner. 

Sweet-Bread,  a  la  Morland.  Breast  of  Capon,  a  la  Marengo. 

Terrapin.  La  Rose. 

Asparagus,  French  Peas.  Mumra's  Extra  Dry. 

Punch  a  la  Romaine,  in  Orange  Baskets. 

Cigarettes. 

Canvas-back  Duck.  Saddle  of  Venison. 

Potatoes  Parisienne.  Chambertin. 

Celery,  en  Mayonnaise,  Lettuce. 
Old  English  and  Roquefort  Cheese.  Osbourne's  Old  Port. 

Charlotte  Russe,  Jellies.  Gateaux  Assortis  Bisquit,  Glace. 

Ice-Cream,  Fruits,  French  Coffee,  Liquors. 
— Judge  Bunn's  Transcript. 


DINNER  A  LA  MARYLAND. 
A  patriotic  son  of  Maryland  has  suggested  as  a  perfect  dinner,  the 
choice  of  the  amphitryon  being  restricted  to  the  productions  of  the 
State,  the  following : 

Four  small  Lynhaven  Bay  oysters. 
Terrapin,  a  la  Maryland. 

Canvas-back  Duck. 

Salad  of  Crab  and  Lettuce. 

Baked  Irish  Potatoes.     Fried  Hominy  Cakes.     Plain  Celery. 

A  royal  feast,  I  assure  you  j  but  as  I  have  not  been  invited,  and  as 
the  affair  may  not  come  off,  I  feel  at  liberty  to  criticise.  I  consider  a 
salad  of  crab  and  lettuce  "  too  heavy  "  for  such  a  menu  as  our  upa 
triotic  son  of  Maryland"  has  suggested  ;  and  as  for  the  fried  hominy 
cakes,  why,  it  is  like  feeding  swine  on  truffles — out  of  place,  I  assure 
you  !  It  is  too  suggestive  of  the  hog  and  hominy  of  the  Sunny  South. 
My  gastronomic  friend,  where  is  your  elegant  Burgundy,  or  a  bottle 
of  the  Leland  Brothers'  private  stock  Madeira  ? 

Now  I  will  give  you  my  idea  of  a  loyal  dinner : 

Menu. 

Four  Blue  Point  Oysters. 

Consomme  with  Egg.  Celery.  Grated  Rusk. 

"  Petites  Bouchees  "  of  Quail. 

Terrapin,  Philadelphia  style.  Saratoga  Chips. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  119 

Canvas-back  Duck.  Currant  Jelly. 

Lettuce  Salad,  plain  Dressing. 

Roquefort  Cheese,  with  Hard  Water-Cracker. 

Coffee  Demi-tasse. 

The  coffee  is  to  be  made  at  table  by  an  expert ;  and  the  wines — 
well,  say  a  bottle  of  sparkling  Hock  made  from  the  Riesling  grape 
served  after  the  soup-plates  have  been  removed,  and  a  choice  bottle 
of  good  old  Burgundy  or  rare  Madeira. 


BANQUET  TO  THE  EON.  GEORGE  LEAR,  EX-ATTORNEY- 
GENERAL,  TENDERED  BY  THE  SENATE  OF  PENN- 
SYLVANIA. 

Lochiel  Hotel,  Harrisburg,  Pa.,  Thursday,  March  27,  1879. 

Served  by  Thomas  J.  Murrey,  of  Continental  Hotel,  Phila. 

Menu. 
Oysters.  Celery.  Chablis. 

Chicken  a  la  Reine.  Amontillado  Sherry. 

Petites  Bouchees  a  l'Imperial. 
Boiled  Striped  Bass,  Hollandaise. 

Broiled  Shad,  Sauce  Tartare. 
Cucumber  Salad. 

P.  A.  Mumm's  Johannesberg. 

Fillet  of  Beef,  with  Mushrooms. 

Loin  of  Lamb,  Epicurean. 

Godillat's  French  Peas.  Potatoes  Duchesse. 

Chateau  La  Rose. 

Supreme  of  Fowl,  Sauce  Bearnaise. 

Cutlet  of  Sweet-breads  a  la  Perigord. 
Tomatoes  Stuffed  an  Gratia. 

G.  H.  Mumm's  Extra  Dry. 

Punch  Cardinal.  Cigarettes  a  la  Russe. 

Squabs  Stuffed  a  la  Murrey.  Chambertin. 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Omelette  Souffle.  Assorted  Jelly. 

Glace  Napolitaine.  Assorted  Cake. 

Fruit. 

Roquefort  Cheese.  Boston  Water-Crackexe. 

Coffee. 


120  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

A  DICKENS  CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 
(From  Dickens'  Story  of  "A  Christmas  Carol.") 

COMPOSED    BY  T.    J.    MURREY. 

Preparatory. 

"What's  to-day,  my  fine  fellow?"  " To-day?  why,  Christmas 
day." 

The  flickering  of  the  blaze  showed  preparations  for  a  cozy  dinner, 
with  hot  plates  baking  through  and  through  before  the  fire. 

She  laid  the  cloth,  assisted  by  Belinda.  And  everything  was  good 
to  eat,  and  in  its  Christmas  dress. 

At  last  the  dishes  were  set  on  and  grace  was  said. 

Dinner. 
Oysters. 
u  Self-contained  and  solitary  as  an  oyster." 

Barrels  of  Oysters.  Chateau  Sauterne. 

u  A  glass  of  wine  ready  to  our  hand." 
Light  Wine. 
Hors-oVoiuvre. 
Tiny  Tim  Pickles. 
Soup. 
Creme  of  Cauliflower — Fin-Bee. 
"  The  compound  was  considered  perfect." 
"  It  had  a  remarkable  quality,  and  Scrooge  observed  it." 

Sherry  (private  stock,  1836). 
"  From  a  cask  in  the  merchants'  wine-cellars  below." 
u  Here  he  produced  a  decanter  of  wine." 

Fish. 
Filet  of  Sole— Sam  Ward. 
"  The  very  fish  in  a  bowl,  though  members  of  a  dull  and  stagnant- 
blooded  race,  appeared  to  know  that  there  was  something  going  on. 
Scrooge's  '  two  fish-baskets  '  never  held  anything  like  them." 
Boiled  Potatoes. 
"  He  blew  the  fire  until  the  slow  potatoes,  bubbling  up,  knocked 
loudly  at  the  saucepan-lid  to  be  let  out  and  peeled." 
Nackenheimer  Auslese. 
"  Satisfactory,  too.     Oh  !  perfectly  satisfactory." 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  121 

Entree. 
Tenderloin  of  Pork — Chas.  Lamb. 
u  An  animal  that  grunted  sometimes." 
"  Seasonable  at  Christmas  time." 

Spanish  Onions  Stuffed  and  Baked. 
"  Shining  in  the  fatness  of  their  growth  like  Spanish  friars." 

Pommeiy  Sec. 
"  Never  out  of  season." 
f*  He  iced  his." 

Punch  a  la  Bishop. 
"  We  will  discuss  your  affairs  over  the  punch." 

Boast 
Turkey. 
"  It  is  not  a  fictitious  one,  glued  on  a  wooden  platter." 
"  Not  unlike  the  big  prize  turkey  that  Scrooge  sent  to  the  Cratchit 
family." 

Cranberry  Sauce. 
"  Modest  tartness." 

Goose,  Apple  Sauce. 
Mashed  Potato. 
"  Bob  said  he  didn't  believe  there  ever  was  such  a  goose  cooked  j 
its  tenderness  and  flavor  were  the  themes  of  universal  satisfaction." 

"  Eked  out  by  apple-sauce  and  mashed  potato,  it  was  a  sufficient 
dinner  for  the  whole  family." 

Komanee  Conti. 
u  Came  after  the  roast." 
"  A'  noble  adjustment  of  things." 

Plain  Salad. 
"  Like  lettuce." 

"  It  was  made  plain  enough  by  the   dressing.      The  '  aromatic 
vinegar '  improved  it." 

Dessert. 
"  With  the  dessert  upon  the  table." 

Plum-Pudding,  Brandy  Sauce. 
"  Hallo  !  a  great  steam  !  the  pudding  was  out  of  the  copper." 
11  Mrs.  Cratchit  entered  with  a  pudding  blazing  in  half  a  quartern 
of  ignited  brandy  " 

"  And  a  wonderful  pudding  it  was." 


122  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

Mince-Pies. 
"  They  had  mince-pies." 

Confections. 
"  The  candied  fruits,  so  caked  and  spotted  with  molten  sugar  as 
to  make  the  coldest  lookers-on  feel  faint— and  subsequently  bilious." 

Fruit. 
"  Cherry-cheeked  apples  and  oranges,  beseeching  to  be  carried 
home  in  paper  bags  and  eaten  after  dinner." 

"  There  were  bunches  of  grapes,  and  figs,  and  raisins,  and  al- 
monds." 

Cheese. 
"  A  crumb  of  cheese." 

Tea  and  Coffee. 
"  The  blended   scents  of  tea  and  coffee  were  so  grateful   to  the 
nose." 

"  At  last  dinner  was  all  done,  the  cloth  was  cleared,  the  '  hot  stuff' 
in  the  jug  was  tasted,  and  Bob  proposed — "  A  Merry  Christmas  to  us 
all.' " 


On  Easter  day  (1830)  there  was  a  private  banquet  at  the  Rossmore 
Hotel  in  this  city,  prepared,  devised,  and  superintended  by  Mr.  T.  J. 
Murrey.     The  service  was  for  twenty,  and  the  menu  was  as  follows: 

Who  can  help  loving  the  land  that  has  taught  us  six  hundred  and 
eighty-five  ways  to  dress  eggs. — Moore. 

Oysters. 

Wm.  Travers  once  observed  that  the  oyster  was  a  most  intelligent 
creature,  since  it  "  shuts  up  sometimes." 

Soup. 
Consomme  Colbert. 
"  On  holydays,  with  an  egg  or  two  at  most." — Chaucer. 
Fish. 
Shad  Roe — Bechamel. 
"He  was  as  thin  as  a  lath,  and  lank  as  a  June  shad." — W.  H. 
Smith,  in  the  novel  of  "The  Minister's  Wife." 
Fresh  Cucumbers. 
11  For  this,  be  sure  to-night  thou  shalt  have  cramps."— Shakspere. 


Valuable  Cooking  Receipts.  123 

Beleve. 
Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce. 
"  It  gives  true  epicures  the  vapors 
To  see  boiled  mutton  minus  capers." 

— Sam  Ward. 
Entree. 
Puree  of  Guinea-Hen  with  Poached  Eggs. 
"  The  vulgar  boil,  the  learned  poach  an  egg.11 — Pope. 

Omelette  au  Bum. 
"  Made  fair  in  the  form  of  a  maiden, 
A  medley  of  music  and  flame." 

— Justin  McCarthy. 

Egg-Nogg,  Frappe  a  1' Alexandria. 

Boast. 

Squab,  stuffed  a  la  Lindenthorpe. 

"Like  a  fat  squab  upon" a  Chinese  fan." — Cowper. 

Green  Peas. 
"  Of  the  sort  that  cost  some  four  or  five  guineas  a  quart." — Hood. 

Baked  Potatoes. 
u  Ireland's  native  esculent  in  a  baked  condition." 

— Lord  Beacon sfield. 

"The  principal  kind  of  '  taters '  raised  by  Ireland  last  year  was 
agitators."— New  York  World,  Jan.  18,  1880. 

Salad. 

Lettuce  Francaise. 

"  Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  fleeting  soul 
And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl." 

— Sydney'  Smith. 

Dessert. 
Assorted. 
"  I  crack  my  brains  to  find  out  tempting  sauces, 
And  raise  fortifications  in  the  pastry." 

—Lady  Allworth's  Cook. 


124  Valuable  Cooking  Receipts. 

Coffee. 
u  Mocha's  berry  from  Arabia  pure, 
In  small,  fine  China  cups,  came  in  at  last." 

— Byron. 
Cigars. 
"Ah  !  social  friend,  I  love  thee  well, 
In  learned  doctors'  spite.     Thy  clouds  all  other 
Clouds  dispel,  and  lap  me  in  delight." 

— Charles  Sprague. 


SALAD  COLLATION  TO  GEO.  M.  TOTTEN,  U.  S.N. 

Continental  Hotel,  Philadelphia. 

Huitres.  Chablis. 

Potages. 
Colbert.  Cabinet  Amontillado.  Pain  a  Caviar. 

Poisson. 
Filet  de  Sole,  a  la  Godard.  Marcobrunner. 

Service  Froid. 

Filet  de  Bceuf  Pique,  au  Salade  Priutaniere.  Eomanee  Conti. 

Cotelette  de  Volaille  en  Bellevue. 

Salade  Cranes  Dur,  a  la  Gourmand.        CEufs  Farci,  a  la  Totten. 

Tartelette  de  Pigeon,  a  la  Vienna.  Cordon  Kouge. 

Salad  Escarole,  a  la  Murrey.  Celeri. 

Laitue.  Fromage  de  Koquefort.  Old  Port  (private  stock). 

Fruit.  Cafe  noir.  Liqueurs. 

T.  J.  Murrey,  Caterer. 
October  2, 1878. 


INDEX 


PAGE 

Antiseptic 113 

App'  3  Sauce 110 

Snow 76 

Toddy,  Hot 107 

Arrowroot  for  Batters  and  Sauces..  37 

Artichokes,  Boiled 92 

Jerusalem 92 

Asparagus,  Boiled 92 

Banquet  Service 101 

Beef  a  la  Mode 21 

Corned 18 

Fillet  of 20 

Roast 39 

Beets,  Boiled 95 

Biscuit,  Milk 61 

Blanc-Mauge 82 

Boiling.  Remarks"  on 17 

Bread,  How  to  make 59 

Boston  Brown 61 

Steamed     "      61 

Corn 60 

Continental  Hotel  Corn 61 

Wheat 60 

Stuffing 46 

Cahbage,  Remarks  on 91 

Cake,  Corn 62 

Tried  Bread 62 

Almond 76 

Almond  Sponge 76 

Chocolate 77 

Chocolate  Macaroons 78 

Cocoanut 77 

Cocoanut  Pound 78 

Columbia 77 

Cream 79 

Crescents 81 


PAGE 

Cake,  Ginger  Cup 79 

Icing 79 

English  Christmas 75 

Knickerbocker 77 

Lady  Fingers,  No.  1 80 

"       No.  2 81 

Macaroons 79 

Maids  of  Honor 81 

Marbled 80 

Neapolitan 80 

Pound,  without  Soda 80 

Olive  Gingerbread 77 

Whortleberry,  No.  1 78 

No.  2 78 

Windsor 79 

Zephyr 77 

Call's  Brains  en  Matelotte 23 

Fried 24 

"             and  Tongue 24 

Head 22 

"    Broiled 23 

"     Collared 23 

"     Fried 22 

"    Maitre  d'Hotel 23 

Capon,  Boiled 20 

Roast 46 

Carrots 94 

Cauliflower,  Boiled 95 

Celery,  Boiled 94 

Champagne 104 

Charlotte  Russe 81 

Chestnut  Stuffing 45 

Chickens  a  l'ltaliennc 29 

Boiled 19 

Croquettes 29 

Fricassee 28 


126 


Index. 


PAGE 

Chickens,  Fried 29 

Liver  en  Brochette 31 

Patties 30 

Panada 30 

Pie 30 

Roast 46 

Roast  Prairie 49 

Toast 31 

With  Dumplings 31 

With  Rice 29 

Cider,  How  to  keep  fresh 110 

Codfish,  Baked 12 

Salt,  with  Cream 13 

Coffee,  Remarks  on 86 

Corn,  Boiled 95 

Cream,  Bavarian 83 

Ice 84 

Italian 83 

Lemon  Ice 85 

Manioca 82 

Peach  Ice 85 

Yanillalce 85 

Whipped  Coffee 83 

Whipped  with  Liqueurs 83 

Crullers 69 

Cucumber,  Stewed 96 

Daudelion,  Stewed 96 

Dressing,  Plain  French 52 

PlainEnglish 53 

Bacon 53 

Duck,  Braise  of,  with  Turnips 31 

Braise  of,  with  Peas 31 

Roast  Canvas-  Back 48 

Roast  Domestic 47 

Wild,  Saline  of 32 

Drinks,  Mixed 106 

Dyspepsia  Cure 113 

Eels,  Fricasseed 14 

Patties 15 

Egg-N  ogg 106 

Egg-Plant,  Stuffed,  No.  1 25 

Stuffed,  No.  2 35 

Etiquette,  Table 97 

Fritters 37 

Golden  Buck 39 

Goose,  Roast 47 

Ham  a  la  Russe 48 

Boiled 19 

Horse  Radish,  Boiled 96 

Hot  Apple  Toddy 107 

Spiced  Rum 107 

Tom  and  Jerry 107 

Ice  Cream,  How  to  make 84 


PAGU 

Ice  Cream,  Lemon 85 

Peach 85 

Vanilla 85 

Ices,  Water,  Apricot 85 

"          Lemon 85 

Icing  for  Cake 79 

Jam 110 

Jelly,  Currant 110 

Wine 110 

Kettles,  Preparing  for  use 113 

Lamb,  Breast  of 28 

Fricassee 28 

Roast 41 

Roast  Saddle  of 41 

Lemonade 106 

Lobster,  Broiled 13 

En  Brochette 14 

Macaroni,  Baked 34 

Macaroons 79 

Basket 83 

Chocolate 78 

Mackerel,  Salt,  Broiled 13 

Meringues 82 

Milk  Punch 106 

Mince  Meat  for  Pies 65 

Mixed  Drinks 106 

Muffins,  Continental  Hotel 61 

Mushrooms,  Remarks  on 58 

Mutton,  Remarks  on 40 

Boiled  Leg  of. 18 

Breast  of,  with  Peas 25 

Curry  of 26 

Hash  with  Poached  Eggs 26 

Pie 27 

Ragout  of 26 

Roast  Leg  of 41 

Roast  Loin  of 41 

Omelettes,  Remarks  on 37 

Oyster 38 

Rum 38 

Souffle 38 

Onions 94 

Orange  Basket 86 

Oyster-Plant 95 

Croquettes 36 

Stuffing 46 

Oysters,  a  la  Poulette 7 

Broiled 7 

Escalloped 6 

Fried 7 

Patties 6 

Raw 5 

Roast  on  half-shell 6 


Index, 


127 


PAGE 

Oysters,  xuujrt 7 

Parsnip  Fritters 36 

Partridge,  Salm<§  of 32 

Paste 64 

Peas,  Green 93 

Bottled 93 

Pickle,  Green  Tomato 112 

Pies,  Remarks  on 62 

Apple 64 

"    Meringue 65 

"    Sliced. 64 

"    Custard 65 

Beefsteak 21 

Custard 66 

Fruit 66 

Lemon  Cream,  No.  1 66 

No.  2 67 

Orange 67 

Pumpkin 66 

Pigeon.  Roast 47 

Pork,  Remarks  on 42 

and  Beans 33 

Chops,  Tomato  Sauce 24 

Sausages 25 

Potatoes,  Remarks  on 90 

Balls 35 

Cakes 36 

Fritters 36 

Stuffed 35 

Powder,  Baking 70 

Puff  Paste 63 

Pudding,  Almond 72 

Astor  House 74 

Bachelor's 73 

Batter 69 

Bird's  Nest 73 

Boiled 68 

Citron 74 

Chocolate 69 

Coeoanut 73 

Eve's 74 

Harlan's 73 

Manhattan 75 

Manioca 75 

Macaroni 72 

Marlborough 72 

Plum,  Emrlish G7 

"     Plain 68 

"     New  England 68 

Roly-Poly 71 

Lemon 71 

Sliced  Apple 74 

Steamed  Arrowroot 72 


PAGE 

Punch,  Santa  Cruz 107 

Preserving 108 

Quail,  Roast 49 

Quinces,  Canning 112 

Rail-Birds 49 

Rarebit.  Welsh 38 

Yorkshire 39 

Reed-Birds 50 

Rice  Croquettes 34 

Roasting,  Remarks  on 39 

Salads,  Remarks  on 51 

Alligator  Pear 58 

Asparagus 56 

Chicken 55 

Cucumber  and  Tomato 57 

Cucumber 57 

Herring 55 

Hop  Sprouts 56 

Lettuce 52 

Lobster 54 

Muskmelon 58 

Potato 55 

Sandwich 57 

Turnip  Tops 56 

Yeal 55 

Salmon,  Soyer's  Boiled 15 

Salt,  Remarks  on 58 

Santa  Cruz  Punch 107 

Sauces,  Anchovy 16 

Celery 16 

Caper 16 

Chili 112 

Drawn  Butter 15 

Dutch 17 

Egg 17 

Hot 112 

Lobster 16 

Maitre  d'Hotel 15 

Mint 41 

Mayonnaise,  No.  1 53 

No.  2 53 

Oyster,  No.  1 16 

No.  2. 17 

Robert 25 

Summer  Mayonnaise 53 

Tartare 23 

Tomato 25 

Vanilla 69 

Vinaigrette 53 

Wine 73 

Gravy  for  baked  Fish 17 

For  Plum-Pudding 68 

Shad,  Baked 14 


128 


Index. 


PAGE 

Sherries 108 

Snipe,  Roast 49 

Soup,  Beef  Tea 11 

Chicken,  No.  1 11 

No.  2 11 

Gumbo 8 

MockTurtle 9 

OxTail 10 

Pea 10 

"   Economical 10 

Stock 8 

Tomato 10 

Veal  Stock 8 

"      Broth 8 

Spiced  Rum,  Hot 107 

Spinach,  Boiled 94 

Sprouts,  Brussels 93 

Stew,  Beef 21 

Sweetbreads,  Stewed 24 

Table  Etiquette •. 97 

Tomatoes,  Canning 112 

Stuffed 34 

Tom  and  Jerry,  Hot 107 


PAGE 

Tonic,  Morning 113 

Tongue,  Boiled 19 

Tripe,  Broiled 33 

Fricassee 33 

Lronnaise 33 

Trout"  Tenderloin 14 

Turkey,  Remarks  on 14 

Boiled 19 

Roast 45 

Turnips,  Boiled 93 

Veal  Croquettes 27 

Fricassee  of. 27 

Roast  Loiu  of. 40 

Venison,  Breast  of. 33 

Chops 32 

Epicurean 32 

Patties 33 

Roast 48 

Weeds 97 

Whiskies 108 

Wines,  Remarks  on 102 

Woodcock,  Roast 49 


