WATUUUVINHUIT 


OO000916165A 


SB 321 : 
iE 
-K3 


Copy 1 


UNIVERSITY BULLETIN 


LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY 


Published by the Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical 
College at Baton Rouge. Issued monthly except November and December. 


Entered December 22, 1909, at Baton Rouge, La., as second-class matter, under 
Act of Congress of July 16, 1894. 


VOLE V-—N:S. JULY, 1914 No. 7 


The Vegetable Garden 


General Rules for Preparing and Cooking Vegetables. 


O 
OQO 
O 


COMPILED BY 
Miss EvizaBetH B, KEey, 
“a 


Miss OLA PowELL, 


Extension Department, Louisiana 
State University 


Geo. L. Tresout, 


Experiment Station, Louisiana 
State University 


APPROVED BY 
T. H. Harris, 


State Superintendent of Education 


O 
OQO 
O 


Mannceent(at 
4 raph / 
ant 


Agricultural Extension Department, 
Louisiana State University r 


E. S. Ricwarpson, Director. 
W. H. Batis, Assistant Director; im charge of Hog Clubs. 


Miss R. M. Bruuines, State Supervisor Schools of Home Kew 
nomics. 


Miss Oua Powe tL, Assistant in Canning Clubs. 
J. A. RepHeEap, Assistant in Charge of Corn Clubs. 
M. G. Osporn, Secretary. 


ee 


Sy SaaS 


GARDEN PLOT. 


33 feet 


a 
$ oH 
o Oo & 
+ 
A 

nN 

oo fm 
oe=) 
<¢ 
an 
rt 
at ie. 


4,3 


Plot may be 66 feet square. 


Select a well drained plot. 

Plan the garden carefully. 

Measure the length and width of the garden. See plant 
table on last page. 

Mark a line for each row of vegetables and name the rows. 
Plan a succession of crops. 

Draw a working plan. 


. Put on the lines in the plan in brackets [ ] the names of 


plants which follow the first planting. 
Study catalog of garden tools. 
Plan for a hotbed and cold frame. 


Nw 


4 


GENERAL RULES FOR PREPARING AND 
COOKING VEGETABLES. 


Clean carefully, removing outer covering and bad spots. 

If not ready to cook immediately allow to stand in fresh 

cold water not longer than half hour. 

Cook until tender in freshly boiling water, add salt when 

vegetables begin to soften. 

Drain immediately they are cooked, otherwise they become 

soggy and water soaked. 

Important: Hot food is served in hot dishes, cold food in 

cold dishes. 

To keep vegetables warm put them in pan over hot water. 
Special directions for special vegetables may be found in 
following pages. 


COLLECTION OF HAND TOOLS FOR THE SCHOOL GARDEN. 
PLANNING FOR THE GARDEN. 


1. Put all tools in order and if necessary buy new ones. 

2. Buy light weight hoe and rake. 

3. Fit up a convenient place to keep your tools. 

4. Keep your tools well cleaned and they will last longer. 

5. Plan for best crops by studying fertilizers. 

6. Select the vegetables you wish to grow. 
Tomatoes Onions Pumpkin 
Eggplant Green onions from sets Melon 
Lettuce Potatoes Sweet potatoes 
Beets Beans Cauliflower 
Radishes Peas Brussels sprouts 
Cabbage Okra Kohlrabi 
Corn Squash Eloebs 
Carrots 


7. Select fertilizers: (a) Barnyard fertilizers. 
(b) Phosphates. 
Most soils in Louisiana need both humus and phosphorus: 
Barnyard fertilizer at the rate of 20 to 40 tons per acre; acid 
phosphate, 200 to 600 lbs. per acre for garden purposes. 


6 


GENERAL RULES FOR CARE OF VEGETABLES. 


1. The best time for picking vegetables is very early in the 
morning before the sun dries the dew and heats them, 

As soon as picked, vegetables should be cleaned and kept in 
a cool place until ready for use. 

3. Lettuce and other green vegetables may be kept fresh and 
erisp by wrapping in wet cheese cloth and putting in heavy 
brown paper sack and hanging in the air. 

4, All vegetables may be freshened by allowing them to stand 
in cold water, but they should not remain longer than a half 
hour. 

5. Wilted green vegetables may be freshened by first cutting 
them while beneath the surface of the water, and allowing 
them to stand for 10 or 15 minutes in the water. 

Send for government bulletin, Dept. of Agriculture, Wash- 
ington, D. C. (No. 256). 


bo 


7 


JANUARY. 


YOUNG PLANTS IN COLD FRAMES. 


PREPARING FOR EARLY CROPS. 


Plant tomatoes, bell peppers, and eggplant seeds in drills 
in hotbeds three inches apart and about one-half inch deep. 
Plant cabbage and lettuce in cold frames. 

Plan the spring garden carefully. 

Select a well drained sandy loam soil if possible. 

Remove from garden all rubbish that will not decay. 
Prepare the soil by plowing and harrowing. 

The best soil is the best foundation for the best garden. 


. In Southern Louisiana sow beets, radishes, spinach, mustard, 


turnips, and parsley if weather permits. 
The best results will be obtained from a well pulverized soft 
bed for the baby seeds. 


Ne 


oe 


oO fe 


8 


SPECIAL RULES FOR POTATOES. 


Pare thinly to avoid removing most nutritive portion. 

Boil slowly so the potato cooks evenly. 

After draining, shake the potatoes gently in the pan in 
which they were boiled over the heat to dry them. 


. Serve always in an uncovered dish. 


Baked potatoes: Scrub potatoes well and bake in hot oven 
or hot ashes, crack the potato open just as soon as soft to 
allow the steam to escape and keep the potato from being 
heavy and soggy. 


9 


FEBRUARY. 


A FIELD OF RADISHES. 


LAYING OFF AND FERTILIZING THE GARDEN; TRANS- 
PLANTING AND SEEDING IN THE OPEN. 


1. The vegetables will get more sunlight if the rows run north 
and south. 

2. Mark the distance apart the plants should stand when trans- 
planted. See plant table of last page. 

3. Transplant cabbage and lettuce from cold frame to field in 
rows 3 feet apart for cabbage and 18 to 24 inches apart in 
rows, lettuce in rows 12 to 15 inches apart, 8 to 10 in the 
rows. 

4. Transplant plants from hotbed to cold frame, usually set- 
ting 4 inches apart each way. 

5. If the soil is properly fertilized plant beets, radishes, tur- 
nips, peas and Irish potatoes. Notice table in back of book. 

6. If soil has not been properly fertilized spade under barn 
yard manure about 2 to 4 loads to 1-10 acre. 


10 


SPECIAL RULES FOR STRONG FLAVORED 
VEGETABLES, SUCH. AS CABBAGE, TUR- 
NIPS, ONIONS, CAULIFLOWER, ETC. 


. All strong flavored vegetables should be cooked in a large 
amount of water and cooked without a lid. 

. Onions should be peeled under water and water changed 
twice while cooking. 

. Special rules for green vegetables: Use as little water as 
possible and cook gently. 


1] 


MARCH. 


A COLLECTION OF VEGETABLES READY FOR MARKET. 


GENERAL PLANTING OF THE GARDEN. 


1. In Southern Louisiana all the available space in the garden 
should be filled this month. 

2. Plant bush and pole beans, squash, cucumbers, melons, 
okra and sweet corn as soon as the soil is warm and mellow 
and works well. See table in back of book. 

3. Transplant tomatoes, eggplants and bell peppers in the 
garden after the danger of frost is over. See table in back 
of book. 

4. Look out for cut worms; they hide in the earth around the 
base of the plant. 

5. Do not spread stable manure on the land just before trans- 
planting tomatoes. 

To kill eut worms: Mix 1 cupful wheat bran with molasses 
to hold it together, adding 14 teaspoon paris green; make into 
smal] balls and drop around plants. 


12 
SPECIAL RULES FOR TOMATOES. 


1. If you are cooking the tomatoes to serve as a vegetable, cook 
in uncovered vessel. 
If you are cooking tomatoes for a soup, cook them covered. 

3. Special rules for cooking rice: Wash rice through at least 
six waters, or until all cloudiness is removed. Drain thor- 
oughly. Bring to the boiling point three brimful cups of 
water. Add the salt and a tiny bit of lard. When water 
is boiling briskly add the rice gradually, so as not to stop 
the boiling. Don’t stir. The grains should be kept moving 
by the boiling water. Cook about fifteen minutes, during this 
time the cover pushed to one side. At the end of the fifteen 
minutes the grains should be soft, not the least gritty. Re- 
move the cover and at the same heat let dry out for five min-’ 
utes. If cooking on gas stove, at the end of five minutes 
lower gas and let the drying out process continue for twenty 
to thirty minutes longer. If cooking on a wood or coke 
stove, at the end of the five minutes place cooked rice on 
back of stove or in oven to dry out. When cooked each 
erain will be puffed to almost three times the size of the un- 
cooked grain. Always cook rice with a lid over the flame. 
On gas stoves an asbestos lid is recommended. Never stir 
rice while cooking. If lard is objected to it can be omitted. 
It lends a brillianey to the cooked product. 


BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 


1. 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 2 
tablespoons lard, 1 cup of milk. Mix and sift dry ingredi- 
ents, cut in lard with two knives, add gradually enough of 
the fluid to make a soft dough (it is impossible to determine 
the exact amount of liquid owing to difference in flour), toss 
on a floured board and roll lightly to a half-inch in thick- 
ness, cut with a biscuit cutter, place in a pan and bake in a 
hot oven fifteen minutes. 


Caution: Handle as little as possible. 


GLOBE OR BUR ARTICHOKE. 


CULTIVATING THE VARIOUS CROPS. 


In North Louisiana the tender vegetables, such as beans, 
cucumbers, etc., may have to be planted during the early 
part of this month after a severe winter. 

Keep the garden well worked with prong hoe. 

Cultivate often; no weeds or grasses should appear in a well 
kept garden. 

Train the tomatoes to stakes and prune them by pinching 
out the suckers which appear between the main stalk and 
leaf stem. 


STRAWBERRIES. 


CULTIVATION CONTINUED. 


. Work with all your might; keep down weeds and grasses. 
Ground from which crops have been harvested “may be 
planted to okra, butter beans, corn and sweet potatoes. See 
table in back of book. 

. Watch for worms and bugs; kill them. 

Catch a toad and keep him in your garden; insects taste 
good to him. 

. Let no weeds go to seed. 


FOR A DELICIOUS STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 


. Use biscuit dough baked in cake tin, split through the center, 
butter well, add sweetened curshed strawberries, sprinkle 
top with powdered sugar and decorate with whole berries. 
This may be served with plain cream or whipped cream. 


. Artichokes. Serve with mutton or as a salad. 


A FIELD OF CABBAGE. 


HARVESTING AND CANNING. 


1. Get the canning outfit in readiness to take care of your sur- 
plus crop. 


2. As soon as the crops are harvested clean the ground and get 
it in readiness for the summer planting. 


3. Spread well-rotted stable manure over the vacant SBBER 
and work into the soil thoroughly. 


4. Clean and burn diseased plants and weeds. 


bo 


16 


COOKED MAYONNAISE DRESSING 


Yolks 2 eggs 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 tablespoons melted butter 
1 teaspoon salt 1, eup hot vinegar 


Mix dry ingredients, mashing lumps smooth with back of 
spoon. 

Slightly beat the yolks and mix in the dry inyredients, add 
2 tablespoons of melted butter, beating all the while, add 1 
cup of cold milk, stir well and cook over a pan of hot water 
very slowly until the mixture coats a spoon. Now add the 
1, cup of hot vinegar and take from the fire; if the mixture 
should curdle, add 2 tablespoons cold water and set pan 
into cold water and beat until it becomes smooth. 

Fresh dressing 

Oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Shake all well in a bottle. 


1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vinegar 
14 teaspoon pepper 4 tablespoons olive oil 


uff 


JULY. 


SUMMER SQUASH AND SWEET CORN. 


PREPARING AND PLANTING THE FALL GARDEN. 


1. Two hundred pounds of a good brand of cotton fertilizer or a 
\ mixture of equal parts of cotton seed meal and acid phos- 
phate to one-tenth of an acre may be necessary on soils of 
average fertility. 
2. Begin to plant for fall garden. 
3. Plant cabbage, cauliflower and tomatoes in hills in the gar- 
den. See table in the back of the book. 


PEANUT BUTTER. 


1. Shell freshly roasted peanuts, remove the skin; now grind 

: the nuts and work to a smooth paste, adding enough salt to 

' season. 

2. Sometimes when the nuts are not vily enough a little butter 
or olive oil is worked into the paste. 


18 


AUGUST. 


YOUNG PLANTS IN OUTDOOR SEED BED. 


PLANTING OF FALL CROPS CONTINUED. 


1. This is the time when most of the fall garden is planted. 

2. Plant radishes, beets, turnips, bush beans, lettuce, mustard, 
cabbage, fall Irish potatoes, shallots and onion sets. See 
the table in the back of the book. 

3. Cabbage worms should be hand picked or noiaened with 
powdered arsenate of lead by dusting lightly from a cheese 
cloth sack. 


GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR CANNING VEGETA- 
BLES. 

Most people believe there is some mystery about canning, 
The secret of canning all vegetables, first, is absolute cleanliness 
and sterilization. To begin, good fresh vegetables are necessary ; 
withered vegetables do not make a good canned product. Cans 
should be scalded, jars must be covered with cold water, allowed 
to boil fifteen minutes, filled with clean vegetables or fruit, ster- 
ilized and sealed air tight. This done, there is no danger of your 
product not keeping. Follow recipes in government bulletins 
Nos. 521, 359, 203. 

Different vegetables and fruit have to be sterilized or proc- 
essed for different length of time. 


19 


SEPTEMBER. 


DRY ONIONS PROPERLY TRIMMED AND READY FOR MARKET. 


PLANTING HARDY VEGETABLES FOR THE WINTER 
GARDEN. 

1. Sow onion seed after September 15 in Southern Louisi- 
ana for spring crop or green onions for late winter. 

2. Plant all vegetables mentioned for August except Irish pota- 
toes and bush beans. 

3. Plant lice should be killed with a whale-oil soap spray; 
about 1 pound to 8 or 10 gallons of water. 

4. Set strawberry plants during this month. 


‘. 


20 


CREAMED ONIONS. 


Put onions in cold water, remove skins while under water, 

drain, put in boiling salted water; boil 5 minutes, drain and 
again cover with boiling water; cook until soft but not broken; 
drain and cover with a thin white sauce. 
' White Sauce.—Melt 2 tablespoons butter and add 114 table- 
spoons of flour, 44 teaspoon salt and a few grains of pepper; 
then add gradually the cup of scalded milk, adding about 1% at 
a time, stirring until well mixed, then beating until it thickens 
and is smooth, 

Pickled Onions.—Peel small white onions, cover with brine, 
allowing 114 cups salt to 2 quarts of boiling water, and let stand 
2 days; drain and cover with more brine and let stand 2 days 
and again drain; make more brine and heat to boiling, put in 
onions and boil 3 minutes, put in jars, with bits oi mace, white 
pepper, corn cloves, bayleaf and red peppers; fill jars to over- 
flowing with vinegar scalded with sugar, allowing 1 cup sugar 
to 1 gallon. Cork while hot. 


21 


OCTOBER. 


BEANS READY TO PICK FROM AUGUST SOWING. 
HARVESTING THE SUMMER PLANTINGS. 


. Any available space in the garden may be filled with root 
crops, such as turnips and radishes; also spinach, lettuce, etc. 
Cabbsge may also be planted in South Louisiana. 

In North Louisiana build a cold frame. 


Select a protected spot for the cold frame. Put a 1x 12-inch 
plank 10 to 12 feet long on edge, supporting it with pegs. 
Four or five feet in front of this place a 1x 6-inch plank 
of same length. Board up the ends, making a box. About 
every 2 or 3 feet nail a narrow strip from the back to the 
front to hold up the cloth covering. One edge of this cloth 
should be tacked to the back of the frame, the other edge 
extending several inches over the front. It is a good plan 
to hem the front edge and place a pole through this hem. 
This pole will serve to weight the cloth down when the cold 
frame is closed. It will also be convenient to roll the cloth 
on in ventilating. 


22 


NOVEMBER. 


MEMBER OF BOYS’ CORN CLUB IN HIS CORN FIELD. 


PREPARING FOR WINTER. 


1. In North Louisiana onions and cabbage seed should be plant- 
ed in cold frames for transplanting during the winter. 

2. In South Louisiana keep all ground busy growing the hard- 
ier crops, such as lettuce, spinach, radishes, mustard, turnips, 
carrots, ete. 

3. Try to give all the land a dressing of manure and commercial 
fertilizer at least twice a year. 


COMBINATION. 
RICE, TOMATOES AND BELL PEPPER. 


Use deep baking dish, well greased; cover the bottom with 
about 1 inch of cooked rice; above this put in a thin layer of 
tomatoes; season well with butter, salt and bell peppers cut in 
small pieces; continue a layer of rice and a layer of tomatoes 
until top is reached; cover top with layer of bread crumbs; bake. 
Top may be sprinkled with cheese before bread crumbs are added. 


23 


BLACKBERRY JAM. 


Pick over blackberries; mash a few in the bottom of a pre- 
serving kettle, using a wooden spoon or a potato masher, and) 
continue mashing until fruit is used; heat slowly to boiling point 
and add gradually ‘an equal quantity of heated sugar. Cook, 
slowly 45 minutes; put in stone jar or tumblers. Blackberries 
and raspberries are fruits most often used for making jam and 
both require equal weight of sugar. 


MAYHAW JEULY. 


Follow recipe for apple jelly. Wash, remove stem and blos- 
som end. Put in granite or porcelain preserving kettle and add 
cold water to come nearly to top of apples; cover and cook slowly 
until apples are soft; mash, draw through a coarse sieve; avoid 
squeezing apples, which makes jelly cloudy. Then allow juice 
to drip through a double thickness of cheese cloth or jelly bag. 
Boil juice 20 minutes, add equal quantity of sugar, boil 5 min- 
utes, skim and if a spoonful will jell when tried in a cold saucer, 
turn it into glasses. Put in a sunny window and let stand 24 
hours; cover and keep in a cool, dark place. (Mayhaws may be 
left whole.) ; 


24 


DECEMBER. 


GROUND AROUND EVERY 
SUCH TREES. 


HOUSE SHOULD BE SHADED BY 


MAKING OUT YEARLY REPORT. 


Prepare a record of your year’s work. 
vy: yi 


2. You should have grown two or more crops on the same land 
during the year. 

3. Take good care of your plants in the cold frame in North 
Louisiana, airing them occasionally. 

4. 


Plan for the hotbed and cold frame in South Louisiana. 


25 


PLANT TABLE FOR HAND CULTIVATION. 


Name of Vegetables 


Width Apart of 
Rows 


Distance Between 
Plants in Rows 


PROMS LOGS! eve ccs ce acres 
Cabbage ... 
Egg plant...... 40 
HSGULUCE (NCA)... s.< sence 
IP2EuS) So aS 6c COO Om 


REECE cts sieiinic evelelcs «eis 


Ont, Edo gkoneienponUboS 
SIPS Tae DBE SOO ECE 5 
PRUE RCAT s ra,s cs 0'si0 eos 
aE J ao Soe eo beo OG 4 
Sweet potatoes........ 
Cauliflower «002.6000. 
Kohlrabi .... : 
Brussels sprouts....... 
LUGS! oto dOOROBOUOE COED 


“18 inches 


2 to 3 fee 
i “ p) “ 
26 3 « 
10 “ 12 inches 
4 “ 6 feet 
Thin “ 2 inches 
1. Sethe 
Thin “ 2 inches 
96 3 « 
PRN noe XG 
1 foot 
4 “ 6 inches 
12) Coes 
2 Seu tean 
2 “ 3 “ 
cas 
4 Ad 
12 “ 15 inches 
2 feet 
4 “ 6 inches 
1S: S524 
Gi rE ee 


26 


TIME FOR PROCESSING FRUIT AND VEGETABLES. 


ASPARAGUS. 
No. 2 cans, 18 minutes, at 232 degrees, 7 pounds pressure 
No. 38 cans, 25 minutes, at 232 degrees, 7 pounds pressure 


BEETS, 
No. 2 cans, 20 minutes, at 228 degrees, 5 pqunds pressure 
No. 3 cans, 25 minutes, at 228 degrees, 5 pounds pressure 
BEANS. 


. 2 cans, 20 minutes, at 235 degrees, 8 pounds pressure 
No. 3 cans, add 380 minutes to time given for No. 2 cans 
No. 10 cans, cook 60 minutes longer than No. 2 cans 


CAULIFLOWER. 
No. 3 cans, 35 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 


CARROTS. 
cans, 20 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 


Z 
9° 
bo 


CORN. 
cans, 40 minutes, at 250 degrees, 15 pounds pressure 


Z 
9 
bo 


PLAIN HOMINY. 
No. 2 cans, 35 minutes, at 250 degrees, 15 pounds pressure 


HOMINY WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
No. 3 cans, 55 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 


OKRA. 

No. 2 cans, 10 minutes, at 212 degrees 
No. 3 cans, 15 minutes, at 212 degrees 
PEAS. 

Early June, 20 minutes, at 240 degrees 


NEW POTATOES. 
Potatoes, medium size, 15 minutes, at 232 degrees 


SWEET POTATOES. 
Use No. 3 cans, 60 minutes, at 240 degrees, or 10 pounds pressure 


SAUER KRAUT. 
No. 3 cans, 30 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 
No. 10 cans, 1 hr. 30 min., at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 
No. 10 cans should contain 4% lbs. of kraut (solids) 


SUMMER SQUASH. 
30 minutes, at 232 degrees, or 7 pounds pressure 


SPINACH. 
20 minutes, at 240 degrees, or 10 pounds pressure 


27 


SUCCOTASH. 
‘lo. 2 cans, 65 minutes, at 250 degrees, or 15 pounds pressure 


STANDARD TOMATOES. 


No. 2 cans, 20 minutes, at 228 degrees, 5 pounds pressure 
No. 3 cans, 28 minutes, at 232-235 degrees, 7 pounds pressure 
No. 10 cans, 60 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 
BLACKBERRIBS. 
No. 2 cans, 5 minutes, at 8 pounds pressure 


2 
No. 3 cans, 12 minutes, at 8 pounds pressure 


STRAWBERRIES. 
No. 2 cans, 5 minutes, at 228 degrees, 5 pounds pressure 


APPLES. 


No. 2 cans, 4 minutes, and No. 10 cans, 6 minutes, in boiling water. 
Be sure that the water is at a jumping boil every minute of the time. 


APRICOTS. 


No. 3 cans, 4 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 
No. 10 cans, 10 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 


FIGS. 
No. 2 cans, 20 minutes, at 235 degrees, pounds pressure 
No. 38 cans, 30 minutes, at 235 degrees, 8 pounds pressure 
No. 10 cans, 45 minutes, at 235 degrees, 8 pounds pressure 


ao 


GRAPES. 


No. 3 cans, 10 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 
No. 10 cans, 20 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 


PEACHES. 
No. 2 cans, 6 minutes, at 285 degrees, 
No. 3 cans, 8 minutes, at 235 degrees, 
No. 10 cans, 20 minutes, at 235 degrees, 


pounds pressure 
pounds pressure 
pounds pressure 


om oO 


PEARS, 
No. 2 cans, 12 minutes, at 232 degrees, 7 pounds pressure 
No. 3 cans, 15 minutes, at 232 degrees, 7 pounds pressure 
No. 10 cans, 25 minutes, at 232 degrees, 7 pounds pressure 
PLUMS. 
No. 3 cans, 4 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 


PINEAPPLES. 
No. 2 cans, 8 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 
No. 3 cans, 10 minutes, at 240 degrees, 10 pounds pressure 


KUMQUATS AND LOQUATS 
No. 2, cans, 20 minutes at § pounds presesure, or 1 hour in boiling water. 


QUINCES. 
No. 2 cans, 6 minutes, at 240 degrees. 


28 


YEARLY REPORT. 


Cost of Plowing 


Cost of Pulverizing Soil 


Cost of Seeds and Plants 


Cost of Fertilizer 


Amount of Fertilizer 


Kind of Fertilizer 


Cost of Staking and Pruning 


t 
Cost of Gathering Fruit 
Number of Cans Bought 


Number of Glass Jars Bought 


Cost of Canning Supplies 


Cost of Canning Labor 


Receipts from Fresh Vegetables 


Value of Vegetables Used at Home 


Value of Canned Vegetables 


Value of Other Products of 1-10th Acre 


Total Value of All Products 


Total Expenses 


ee eee eee 


Net Profit 


i 


29 
FORM FOR MONTHLY RECORD 
Name of Vegetable 


Record these items |. 2 6 
each time in proper PN ht 3 g 2 
place, giving date hess oe g 4 is) 
of each. fa z, e S 
| 
Rent of land........ Quantity)... s.|( COs: oa!) s.cs2:cccssececk | Saacceaccepenen | Meee ecmeeteeeeee || meee ereeseeeee | eeceneoe 
(in sq. ft.) 
Soil preparation..... ELON TS eteleia ete COS toss] ss cacacccc ee | een tece rene | eee eee ene eee a 
IEEDUTCLere = = cress «cise Gina bey ue | OSE es fees toee csc) eee a | ee Se | | 
(tons) | 
Commercial fertilizer) Quantity....|Cost.. 
(pounds) 
(22 Sone cocoa pOeee Quantity..../Cost.. 
(pounds) 
Planting seed....... ELOuTSi 2s meice Cost. . 
TE arWIlhS 6 5 aoe Oe Quantity..../Cost.. 
(number) 
Transplanting plants.| Hours....... Cost.. 
Cultivation.......... Hours....... Cost.. 
Pruning.........-.- LOUIS etesyele hae ae eee 
SHSIN ESS Go DOO Cacroerars Hours....... Cost.. 
Gathering........... ELOUES#s erelercre Cost. . 
WLGG ls Sapo ecaoneigIad Quantity....|Cost.. 
(pounds) | | ! | 
Wreshs products sold.| Quantity... .|Value.|_ aan |en.----cecan2-| ccsccenseneneceezse| |=rcenecnnnnennes soos 
(pounds) | | f 
fpemmproducts used! Quantity. ... =| Value. |..22-:..-20<0) Sct tenn cace) sanedecteememcsmsees | [os teemeeeceoue fmm = 
PREMEIOUAG se s1ci s.0\0 ves (pounds) | | 
MEAN ss. ia\e'ee ws ote Quantity...) Wallive oc 08. <<oc8 lh. ce tenes | ee ees Passe eesrcce 
(pounds) | | | | 
RIESE sof s «3.6 pierecs at Qpamtity-). (Cost . clic tc.... Be ena eer te 
(No. & size) | | \| | 
HESS (ERS ee eee Quantity =< (| COS. a) ees = =| eee [Eee Au eee eee eee 
(No. & size) | | | | 
(ans Sold... 6. sas Qanmtitys cs)|/ Value. |e Se ee eae ape tee [eee ness | (Esa 
(No. & size) | | | | 
BISEESESOL T= tele) s'sva\e. «1010 Quantity.... | | is = 
(No. & size) | | | | | 
Cans used at home..| Quantity... .|Value. |...........-----|-.---------- | 2oceer cents |e eee 
i . (No. & size) | | I 
lars used at home...| Quantity... «| Value. |--------aec-| nance ececeen|eeceecennenmenenncen| | enecseneeeeeeee | [eee 
(No. & size) | | | 


1. Do not neglect any one of these items. 
2. Count your own time as worth 10 cents for every hour worked. 
8. Estimate rent of land $1.00. 

4. Count all commercial fertilizer and hired help at actual cost. 


Count barnyard manure at $2.00 per ton, a good two-horse load as a 
= n, and a one-horse load as half a ton. 


30 


HISTORY OF CROP. 
Note—Please give any interesting information and answer 
these questions on the following blank pages. 
(1) Size of the plat used for the crop you are writing about 
(2) Kind and depth of soil. 
(3) Kind of subsoil. 
(4) When and how the soil was prepared. 


(5) Condition of the plats when the seeds were planted or 
the plants were put out. 


(6) In case plants were used, how did you raise them? 
(7) Date of planting, if seeds were started in hotbeds or cold 
frames. 
(8) Date of planting seeds in the open. 
(9) Kinds of seeds used and where secured. 
(10) If you transplanted plants, state how you did it. 
(11) Width of rows. 
(12) Kinds and quantity of fertilizer used. 
(13) State any trouble you may have had with plant diseases, 
insects, accidents, ete. 
(14) How did you succeed in getting rid of these? 
(15) How did you cultivate and manage the crop? 
(16) In ease staking was done, give date and method of same. 
(17) Date of first bloom. 
(18) Date of first fruit. 
(19) Date of ripening. 
(20) Did you prune the plants? If so, state how you did it. 


LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 


CPUNE 


