"VICTORY" 
COOK  BOOK. 


a 


a 


VICTORY" 
COOK  BOOK. 


^^^^^^^^^ 


3 


E 


'^YVXyO-'  C.-^-.^^vt■^,.^,   S^^c..^.-    iiS^avi^ 


We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art ; 
We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart ; 
We  may  live  without  friends,  we  may  live  without  books  ; 
But  civilized  men  cannot  live  without  cooks. 


Price  25  cents. 


ALL   MEASUREMENTS   USED    IN 
THIS  BOOK  ARE  LEVEL. 


Qy^^^^■-p.—^^2^—e.y^-e^ 


SOUPS. 

"The  onion  is  a  homely  plant,  and  rank  as  most  that  grows, 
And  yet  it  beats,  to  mix  with  soups,  the  lily  or  the  rose." 

Potato  and  Onion  Soup. 

Four  onions  One  quart  milk 

Four  medium  sized  potatoes  One  teaspoon  butter 

Seasoning 

Peel  four  onions  and  four  potatoes  and  cover  with  boiling  water  to  which 
salt  has  been  added,  and  cook  until  soft.  Put  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and 
v'hen  scalded  add  it  to  the  water  in  which  vegetables  were  boiled.  Press  to- 
gether and  add  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste.         Mrs.  E.  T.  Carroll. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Cook  one  can  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  water,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  a  little 
c  love  together  for  fifteen  minutes.  Melt  in  small  frying  pan  two  tablespoons 
butter  or  beef  drippings.  Add  one  small  chopped  onion  and  fry  until  light 
brown.  -Add  three  tablespoons  of  flour  and  a  little  soup.  Pour  into  to- 
matoes; season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  strain.  Mrs.  M.  Dolan. 

Corn  Chowder. 

One  can  corn  One  sliced  onion 

One  pint  water  I'our  medium  sized  potatoes 

Seasoning 

Boil  the  corn  with  one  pint  of  water  and  sliced  onion  twenty  minutes, 
.^tirring  occasionally,  add  potatoes  sliced,  and  cook  until  soft  but  not  broken; 
one  pint  of  hot  milk  is  then  added,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one-eighth  of  a 
teaspoon  of  pepper  and  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Keep  hot  until  ready  to 
serve.  Mrs.  Doherty. 

Dried  Green  Pea  Soup. 

One  cup  pens  Speck  of  soda 

Two  quarts  water  Small  piece  of  butter 

Seasoning 

Soak  one  cup  of  peas  over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  add  two 
|uarts  of  water,  add  sprinkle  of  soda,  and  simmer  until  peas  are  soft  and 
can  be  pressed.  Season  liquid  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  two  cups  of  hot 
milk  and   small  piece  of  butter.  Mrs.   Donohue. 


Cream  of  Celery  Soup.  • 

One  i)int  hot  milk  One  bunch  of  celery 

Two  tablespoons  butter  Two  tablespoons  flour 

Seasoning  One-half  cup  cold  water 

Small  onion 

Use  the  outside  stalks  and  green  leaves,  and  onion.  Cook  in  enough  boil- 
ing salted  water  to  cover.  When  tender,  strain  and  add  hot  milk,  butter 
and  seasoning.  Mix  flour  and  cold  water,  and  thicken  above  mixture.  Then 
cook  until  of  desired  thickness.  Mrs.  Tangnay. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup.^ 

One  can  tomatoes  One  quart  of  milk 

One  teaspoon  sugar  Seasoning 

One  slice  of  onion  Thickening 

Cook  tomatoes  with  one  teaspoon  clove  and  a  slice  of  onion  for  twenty 
minutes.  Mix  a  half  cup  of  water  with  about  one-ciuarter  cup  of  flour.  Add 
the  above  to  one  cup  of  hot  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Eoil  five  minutes,  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  speck  of  pepper,  and  two  table- 
spoons of  butter.  Strain  tomatoes  and  add  a  speck  of  soda;  pour  this  liquid 
slowly  into  the  mixture,  stirring  constantly.     Serve  at  once.       Mrs.  Walsh. 

White  Soup. 

Cut  in  small  pieces  two  pounds  neck  of  the  veal  or  mutton.  Put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  cold  water.  Cook  slowly  two  hours,  add 
!wo  sliced  onions  and  one  turnip  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  cook  gently  one 
hour.  Add  one  cup  of  cooked  rice  or  barley.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
thicken  with  one-quarter  cup  of  flour  mixed  with  half  cup  of  water.  Boil  ril 
least  five  minutes  after  adding  this  to  soup.  Mrs.  K.  Killion. 

Luncheon  Soup. 

Use  the  stock  from  boiled  mutton,  cooking  it  down  to  about  two  quarts. 
Add  a  large  cupful  of  green  peas  which  have  been  previously  boiled  and 
slightly  sweetened.  Season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  add  a  little. 
[)epper.  It  is  prol)ably  salt  enough  already.  Cook  until  the  peas  are  soft 
enough  to  press  through  a  coarse  strainer,  after  which  return  to  the  fire  and 
when  hot  enough  stir  in  a  coffee  cupful  of  hot  milk  and  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  M.  O'Donner.. 

Clam   Soup. 

\\'ash  the  clams  free  from  grit,  boil  them  in  a  pint  of  water  until  they 
come  from  the  shells  easily.  Take  a  small  quantity  of  the  liquor,  add  some 
milk,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  and  add  clams.  M.  McLaughlin. 


Asparagus  Soup. 

One  hunch  of  asparagus  Two  tablespoons   flour 

One  pint  of  l)oilin_s;  water  Two  tablespoons  butter 

Two  cups  milk 

Use  tips  as  a  vegetable.  Cut  stalks  into  small  jjieces,  and  cook  in  the 
boiling  water  until  tender.  T^ress  through  a  sieve.  Blend  together  the  but- 
ter and  flour  in  a  sauce])an.  and  add  gradually  two  cups  of  the  w^ater  in 
which  the  asparagus  has  been  cooked.  Then  add  the  milk.  To  the  above 
mixture  add  one  cup  of  the  pulp  and  when  hot  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Cook  the  soup  in  a  double  boiler  and  when  of  the  desired  thickness,  serve 
'It  once.  Mrs.  Fitzsimmons. 

Canteen  Potato  Soup. 

Six  potatoes,  mashed  Three  cups  iiot  milk 

Two  table.spoons  flour  Seasoning 

One  cup  cold  milk  One  small  onion,  chopped 

Mix  flour  .^nd  cold  milk  until  smooth.  Add  three  cups  of  hot  milk  and 
onion  to  this,  and  boil  live  minutes.  Add  three  tablespoons  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  speck  pepper  and  celery  salt.  Add  potatoes  and  strain,  stir  until 
smooth  and  re-heat.  M.  M.  D. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Two  pounds  haddock  or  cod  Four  potatoes 

Two  slices  of  salt  pork  One  quart  of  milk 

Two  small  onions  Seasoning 

Cut  head  off  and  remove  skin  and  bones,  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook 
:-lowly.  Fry  fat  pork  until  brown.  Fry  onions  likewise.  Add  four  potatoes 
sliced  and  strain  in  water  in  w^hich  fish  has  been  boiled.  Cook  twenty  min- 
utes. Cut  fle.^h  into  pieces  and  add,  cook  ten  minutes,  add  one  quart  of  milk, 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.     Add  crackers  if  desired.  Mrs.  Thissill. 

Consomme. 

One  fowl  f^our  to  six  quarts  cold  water 

Veal  bone  weighing  two  pounds  One  carrot 

One  pound  lean  beef  One  onion 

One  celery  stalk 

I'roportions  for  Five  Persons 
One  bay  leaf  Six  whole  allspice 

Four  whole  cloves  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cut  to  pieces  meat  and  bones  and  brown  a  little  either  in  oven  or  on  fry- 
ing pan,  then  put  in  kettle  with  cold  water.  Allow  to  cook  slowly  for  two 
hours,  skimming  from  time  to  time  to  clarify.  Strain  carefully  through 
chee-se  cloth,  add  vegetables  and  seasoning.  Mrs.  M.  F.  Leonard. 


Lobster   Chowder. 

One-quarter  cup  of  salt  pork  Three  and  one-half  cups  hot  milk 

One-small  onion  One-half  teaspoon  salt 

One-quarter  cup  of  flour  Speck  paprika 

One-half  cup  of  milk  Two  cups  lobster 

Two  tablespoons  butter 

Add  onions  to  salt  pork  and  cook.  Mix  flour  and  milk  until  smooth. 
Add  milk  to  the  above  mixture,  also  onions.  Stir  until  thick  and  smooth. 
Strain  mixture  and  add  half  spoonful  of  salt,  paprika  and  two  cups  lobster 
neat  cut  into  cubes.     Add  two  tablespoons  butter.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.   Christine  Crossen. 

Clam  Chowder. 

One-quarter  pound  salt  pork  One  quart  hot  milk 

Two  medium  sized  onions  Six  sliced  potatoes 

C^ne  quart  boiling  water  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Common  crackers 

Cut  pork  in  dice  and  fry.  Cut  onions  small.  Add  water  when  light 
brown  and  the  tough  part  of  clams  which  have  been  chopped  fine;  cook 
twenty  minutes,  add  milk,  potatoes  and  soft  part  of  clams.  Cook  till  potatoes 
vre  soft  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Add  crackers  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Dowd. 

.     Beef  Tea. 

One  pound  raw  beef  One  pint  cold  water 

Seasoning  if  desired 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  and  put  in  the  top  of  double-boiler  with  the  cold 
water.  Let  .-tand  for  half  an  hour.  Then  cook  on  back  of  stove  for  an  hour. 
Remove  fat,  strain,  season  and  serve.  Mrs.  B.  Sullivan. 

Beef  Stew. 

Two  pounds  beef  Three  oniions 

One-quarter  cup  flour  Four  medium  potatoes 

Two  carrots  Water 

One  turnip  Sat  and  pepper  to  taste 

Flour 
Cut  meat  into  small  pieces.  Save  better  pieces.  Put  remainder  into  stew 
])an.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  slowly.  Try  out  some  of  beef  fat  in 
frying  pan.  Roll  better  pieces  of  meat  in  flour  and  brown.  Add  onoin. 
Put  these  into  soup  kettle.  Cover  meat  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly 
at  least  two  hours.  Add  vegetables  and  cook  until  soft.  Add  seasoning  and 
thickening. 


FISH. 

"Master  I  marvel  how  the  fishes  live  in  the  sea! 
They,  as  men  do  on  the  land:  the  great  ones  eat  up  the  little  ones." 

Baked  Halibut* 

Arrange  six  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  two  and  one-half  inches  square, 
in  dripping  pan.  Cover  with  one  small  onion  thinly  sliced  arid  add  a  bit 
■ot  bay  leaf.  Wipe  a  two-pound  piece  of  chicken  halibut  and  place  over 
rork  and  onion.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  creamed  and  mixed  with 
two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Cover  with  three-fourth  cup  buttered  cracker 
■crumbs.  Arrange  thin  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  over  crumbs.  Cover  with  but- 
tered paper  and  bake  fifty  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Remove  paper  during 
the  last  fifteen  minutes  of  the  cooking  to  brown  crumbs.  Remove  to  hot 
serving  di.^h.  Add  to  fat  in  the  pan  three  tablespoons  of  flour  and  stir  until 
well  browned.  Then  add  one-half  can  of  tomato  soup  and  one  cup  of  hot 
water.    Strain  and  pour  around  the  fish  on  the  serving  dish. 

Agnes  E.  Hurley. 

Scalloped  Fish. 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  left  over  fish.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  baking  dish  with  fish.  Add  a  layer  of  bread  stuffing  made  from 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  onion,  a  little  chopped  pickle,  melted  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  and  all  moistened  with  milk  or  water.  Add  another  layer  of  fish 
and  moisten  well  with  drawn  butter  sauce.  Roughly  cover  with  mashed  po- 
tatoes.    Brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  Neil  J.  Devlin. 

Butter  Dressing  for  Fish. 

Two  tablespoons  butter  One  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley 

Two  tablespoons  flour  One  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

One-quarter  teaspoon  salt  One  cup  boiling  water 

Few  grains  cayenne 

Put  the  I)Litter  in  a  bowl  and  rub  until  creamy.  Add  flour,  salt,  pepper 
and  parsley.  Then  the  lemon  juice  very  slowly.  Add  boiling  water.  Boil 
for  five  minutes.     Parsley  may  be  omitted.  Mrs.  M.  J.  Trainor. 

Fish  Sauce. 

Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  cook  in  it  sliced  onion  until  light 
],rown.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  salt,  speck  of 
paprika,  small  bay  leaf  and  one  clove.  Gradually  add  one  cup  boiling  water 
or  tomato,  cook  five  minutes.     Strain.  Mrs.  Barry. 

9 


Kedgeree.  ^ 

Mix  two  cups  of  cold  fish,  salmon  preferred,  with  equal  quantity  of 
■ooked  rice.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  beaten  egg,  a  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  speck  of  cayenne  and  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley if  desired.  Heat  and  then  put  into  a  wet  bowl.  Mould  out  on  platter 
and  ]:)Our  over  and  around  it  a  cream  sauce  made  as  follows: — Melt  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  when  smooth  add 
two  cups  of  hot  milk.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.     A  hard  cooked  egg  may  be  .sliced  into  the  sauce. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Corcoran. 

Finnan  Haddie. 

Soak  the  fish  half  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Drain  and  put  into  a  baking 
(iish  with  water  to  cover.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Drain  and  remove  bones  and 
.'::erve  with  wliite  .'^auce  or  melted  butter.  Mrs.  M.  F.  Leonard. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Prepare  oysters.  Sprinkle  cnmibs  in  bottom  of  buttered  baking  dish. 
Cover  with  oysters,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  another  layer  of  crumbs  and  then 
oysters,  etc.,  until  di.'^h  is  three-fourths  filled.  Moisten  with  oyster  liquor  or 
cream  sauce.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  fifteen  minute^  in  hot 
oven.  E.  J.  Nicholson. 

Soft  Cod   Roe  Fried. 

Boil  roe  in  l:)oiling  water  to  which  a  little  vinegar  has  been  added  and 
salt  and  pepper,  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  it.  Dip  roe  into  beaten  egg  and 
then  into  finely  sifted  bread  crumbs,  covering  every  part.  Cook  in  smoking 
hot  fat  until  crisp  and  brown.  Serve  with  butter  sauce  to  which  is  added  a 
little  lemon  juice  and  cayenne.  K.  E.  S. 

Salmon  Cakes. 

Drain  thoroughly  a  can  of  salmon.  Mince  it  fine,  then  add  an  ecjual 
amount  of  mashed  potatoes  and  a  beaten  egg.  Form  into  little  cakes.  Dip  into 
egg,  then  into  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  grea.sed  pan.        Margaret  A.  Coulter. 

Lobster  and  Aspic  Jelly. 

Pour  a  Utile  aspic  jelly  into  a  mould  with  a  hollow  center.  When  slTff 
:..ld  pieces  of  lobster  and  then  a  little  more  jelly.  Let  this  stiffen  and  add 
slices  of  hard  cooked  egg,  more  lobster  and  some  capers.  Fill  with  jelly. 
Set  on  ice.  When  firm  turn  out  on  di.sh  and  fill  centre  with  Russian  dress- 
ing. ^L  T.  M. 

10 


Baked  Mackerel. 

Split  fish,  clean,  remove  head  and  tail.  Put  in  buttered  dripping  pan, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dot  over  with  butter  (about  one  tablespoon 
to  a  medium-size  fish),  and  pour  over  two-thirds  cup  milk.  Bake  thirty 
nnnutes  in  hot  oven.  A.  M.  M. 

Baked  Fish  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

Fill  fish  with  stuffing  and  sew.  Cut  slits  two  inches  apart  on  the  sides 
ar.d  lay  in  each  a  thin  strip  of  fat  pork.  Place  in  baking  pan  on  thin  slices 
of  fat  pork.  Pour  over  it  one  cup  salted  boiling  water  in  which  two  table- 
spoons butter  have  been  melted.  Dust  over  all,  salt,  pepper  and  flour, 
(^uick  oven.  Baste  often.  When  flesh  begins  to  separate  from  bones  it  is 
done.    Transfer  it  to  hot  platter. 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Baked  Fish — Mince  two  large  onions  fine.  Put  in  fry- 
ing pan  with  two  tablespoons  butter  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Stir  fre- 
quently. Add  one  quart  tomatoes.  Let  cook  a  while.  Put  through  sieve 
to  remove  seeds  and  onion.  Return  to  frying  pan,  thicken  with  two  table- 
spoons or  more  of  flour.    Add  a  little  butter.    Serve  with  fish.      M.  T.  M. 

Smothered    Codfish. 

Pick  boiled  codfish  free  from  bones  and  shred  it  fine.  To  one  pint  of  hot 
milk  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  two  tablespoons  flour  rubbed  together, 
moistened  with  cold  milk.  Stir  it  until  it  boils  and  thickens.  Have  ready 
two  eggs  beaten  light,  pour  the  mixture  on  them  and  beat  until  well  mixed. 
PJace  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish.  On  this  place 
a  la}"er  of  fish.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  sauce. 
Repeat  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.     This  is  delicious.  Esther  W. 

Fish  Balls. 

Shred  one  cup  salt  codfish  in  very  small  pieces  and  wash  in  cold  water. 
\\'ash  and  pare  potatoes  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces  until  you  have  two 
cups.  Cook  the  fish  and  potatoes  together  until  potatoes  are  tender.  Drain 
and  dry  the  mixture  thoroughly.  Mash  it  all  and  add  a  little  pepper,  salt  if 
needed,  two  teaspoons  butter  and  one  beaten  egg.  Beat  all  until  it  is  light. 
Form  balls  on  a  tablespoon  and  drop  them  into  smoking  hot  fat.  Fry  until 
brown,  then  drain.  J.  M. 

Fried  Shad   Roe. 

Parboil  .shad  roe  by  boiling  in  salted  water,  to  which  has  been  added  one- 
(jiiarter  tablespoon  vinegar,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Cut  in  pieces,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  brush  over  with  lemon  juice.  Dip  in  egg,  then  in 
crumbs.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

11 


MEATS. 

"The  turnpike  road  to  people's  hearts,  I  find, 
Lies  through  their  mouths,  or  I  mistake  mankind." 

Veal  Loaf. 

Three  pouiids  of  raw  veal  chopped  very  fine.  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Three  eggs,  three  tal^lespoons  milk.  Mix  eggs  and  milk  together.  Mix  with 
the  veal  four  pounds  of  crackers,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  sage,  Mix 
all  together  in  the  form  of  a  loaf.  Bake  two  and  one-half  hours,  basting 
with  butter  and  boiling  water.  Mrs.  O.  Driscoll. 

Pot  Roast. 

Buy  a  piece  of  bottom  of  round,  put  it  into  a  pan,  sprinkle  with  a  little 
flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  water.  Then  add  sliced  potatoes  and  a 
small  onion  or  two,  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Cover  with 
a  pan.  Let  the  potatoes  get  crisp  and  then  add  more  water.  Thicken  and 
season.  Mrs.  B.  Sullivan. 

American  Chop  Suey. 

One  pound   Hamburg  steak  Medium   sized  onion 

One  cup  cooked  macaroni  One  cup  cooked  rice 

One  cup  canned  tomatoes 

Season  meat  and  onions  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Brown  in  frying 
pan,  adding  macaroni,  rice  and  tomatoes.  M.  M.  D. 

Glazed  Ham. 

Take  a  cold  boiled  ham;  after  removing  the  skin,  brush  all  over  with 
beaten  egg.  To  a  cup  of  powdered  crackers  add  enough  rich  milk  or  cream 
to  make  thick  paste,  salt  it,  and  work  in  a  teaspoon  of  melted  butter.  Spread 
evenly  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  over  the  ham  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  to  brown. 

Florence  E.  Buckley. 

Meat  Flavored  with  Green  Peppers. 

"1  wo  pounds  chopped  beef  One  and  one-half  cups  soaked  bread 

Salt  and  pepper  crumbs 

One  onion  chopped  fine  One  egg 

Mix  all  together  and  season.  Make  into  loaf,  chop  two  green  peppers, 
lay  over  top.     Bake  in  hot  oven  until  firm.  M.  C.  O. 

12 


Sauce  for  Meat. 

Chop  up  one  onion,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  light  brown.  Add  one  can  of 
concentrated  tomatoes,  one  cup  or  more  of  boiling  water.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.     There  should  be  enough  sauce  to  cover  meat. 

Polenta.  Have  three  cups  of  boiling  water  in  top  of  double  boiler,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Sift  in  one  cup  of  cornmeal  and  cook  over  fire, 
stirring  constantly  for  ten  minutes.  Then  cook  over  boiling  water.  Stir  in 
seme  grated  cheese.  Pour  into  a  wet  bowl.  Turn  at  once  on  a  platter  and 
pour  over  it  the  above  sauce.  Estelle  McMahon. 

Veai  and  Lamb. 

Use  meat  cut  from  the  neck  and  shoulder,  about  two  pounds,  two  quarts 
of  potatoes,  two  onions  cut  in  eighths,  four  tomatoes,  sliced,  or  one  cup 
stewed  tomatoes,  one-fourth  cup  of  lard  or  other  fat.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Cut  raw  potatoes  into  small  pieces  into  a  baking  pan.  Add  onions 
and  tomatoe>.  Sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Wipe  meat  with  a  damp 
cloth  and  lay  meat  on  top  of  vegetables.  Lay  few  slices  of  pork  on  top  of 
meat.  Cover  and  cook  in  oven,  turning  meat  and  vegetables  occasional!) 
until  potatoes  are  baked  and  meat  is  tender.  Pork  chops  or  shoulder  blades 
may  be  used  in  the  same  way,  omitting  the  slices  of  pork.  M.  M.  D. 

Meat  Pies. 

Another  good  way  to  use  a  little  meat.     Have  you  ever  used  rice,  corn- 
meal  mush,  or  hominy  for  a  crust?     This  is  less  work  than  a  pastry  crust 
and  saves  wheat. 
Four  cups  cooked  com,  meal.  One-eighth  teaspoon  pepj^er 

rice,  or  hominy  One  tablespoon  fat 

One  onion  One  pound  raw  meat  or  left-over 

Two  cups  tomato  meat  cut  up  small 

One-half  teaspoon  salt 

jMelt  the  fat,  add  the  sliced  onion,  and,  if  raw  meat  is  used,  add  it  and 
stir  until  the  red  color  disappears.  Add  the  tomato  and  seasoning.  If 
cooked  meat  is  used,  add  it  with  the  tomato  and  seasoning,  after  the  onion  is 
browned,  and  heat  through.  Grease  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  the 
cereal,  add  the  meat  and  gravy,  and  cover  with  the  cereal  dotted  with  fat. 
Bake  for  half  an  hour.  F.  J.  B. 

Stuffed  Leg  of  Veal. 

Choose  a  firm  leg  of  veal,  with  good  pink  color.  Have  the  butcher  re- 
move bone  and  use  it  for  a  stew  for  the  next  day  with  remnants  of  veal  left. 
Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  little  chopped  onion,  pepper  salt  and 
sage  to  taste.  Mrs.  T.  Mitchell. 

13 


stuffing  for  Veal.  ^ 

'I'wo  level  cups  mashed  potato  One-half  le\-el   teaspoon   salt 

One  level  cup  soft  bread  crumbs         One-half  level  teaspoon  pepjoer 
One-half  cup  butter 
Two  level  tablespoons  scraped  onion  pulp 

One-half  level  teaspoon  poultry  seasoning 
Mix  thoroughly.  Ella   J.    Shaw. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Cut  in  pieces  a  large  chicken  or  plump  white  fowl  as  for  fricassee,  wash 
and  put  into  porcelain  or  agate  kettle  with  water  to  cover.  One  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  stick  of  celery.  Cover  tight  and  boil  slowly  until  tender.  Then 
take  it  out  of  the  liquid.  Remove  skin  and  large  bones.  Skim  the  fat  off 
th.e  liquid  and  thicken  it  with  one  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in 
one-half  cup  of  cream.  This  sauce  should  measure  about  five  cups.  Season 
with  a  little  white  pepper.  Pour  this  over  the  chicken,  which  has  been 
placed  in  a  deep  pie  dish.  Cover  with  a  rich  pie  crust.  Cut  gashes  in  crust 
to  let  steam  escape.  Mrs.  M.  O'Donnell. 

Baked  Ham. 

One  slice  ham,  three-quarters  to  one  inch  thick 
Twenty  whole  cloves  Five  apples 

Two  cups  brown  sugar  Water 

Remove  the  skin  of  the  ham  but  do  not  remove  any  fat.  Place  in  frying- 
]nm,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  parboil  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Remove 
from  pan  and  dry  tlioroughly.  Stick  ham  and  fat  with  twenty  whole  cloves. 
Cover  each  side  with  a  half  a  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  place  in  small  bak- 
mg  pan;  fill  the  four  comers  of  the  pan  with  five  apples  that  have 
been  cored  and  quartered.  Cover  apples  with  one  cup  of  brown  sugar.  Put 
enough  hot  \vater  in  pan  to  cover  the  ham,  but  do  not  cover  the  sugar  or  ap- 
]iles.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour.  M.  H.  R. 

Stuffing  for  Turkeys  and  Chickens. 

One-third  cup  melted  l)utter  i,hie-third  le'.el  teaspoon  pepper 

One-half  level  teaspoon  salt  Two  level  cups  soft,  fine  bread  crumbs 

One-half  level  tea.s])oon  powdered  thyme  or  poultry  seasoning 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  together.     The  bread    should  have    been  baked 
twenty- four  hours.     The  c^uantity  given  is  enough  for  one  chicken.     Double 
the  quantities  for  a  ten  pound  turkey.  •  A.  L.  M. 


14 


Hague  Chop  Suey. 

Two  cups  Hamburji;  steak  Two  cups  of  boiled  spaghetti 

One  cup  of  tomato  sauce  Seasoning 

Put  cooked  spaghetti,  sauce,  and  meat  into  hot  greased  frying  pan;  stir 
and  cook,  until  ready  to  serve.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  Worcestershire 
sauce,  celery  salt,  parsley,  or  Tabasco  sauce.  John  Parsons. 

Meatless  Mince  Meat. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs  One-half  cup  of  vinegar  or  cider 

Three  cups  of  apples  One  teaspoon  of  cassia 

One  cup  of  I'aisins  One  teaspoon  of  salt 

One-half  cu})  of  sugar  One-quarter  teaspoon  of  allspice 

One  cup  of  molasses  One-quarter  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

One  lemon 
Add,  if  de.-ired,  suet,  salt  pork  and  more  fruit.  Mrs.  McCarthy. 

Mince  Meat. 

Five  pounds  chopped  beef  Two  quarts  of  apples 

'i  wo  lemons,  juice  and  rind  (^ne  pound  of  raisins 

Two  oranges,  rind  and  juice  One-half  pound  of  currants 

Two  quarts  of  cider  One  ounce  of  nutmeg 

One  tablespoon  of  salt  Two  cups  of  molasses 

One-half  pound  of  suet  Six  pounds  of  brown  sugar 
One  ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  clove  and  allspice 
Can  while  hot.  Mary  A.   Hanafin. 

Baked  Cream  Chicken  with  Mushrooms. 

Cook  two  tablespoons  of  flour  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter;  when  frothy 
tidd  gradually  one  pint  of  hot  milk,  then  add  half  a  small  onion,  finely 
chopped,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice.  Stir  and  cook  until  thick,  strain,  add  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  diced  cooked  chicken,  two-thirds  can  of  mushrooms 
cut  in  halves  and  one  diced  hard-cooked  egg.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  bake  until  brown  and  garnish  with 
parsley  before  serving.  L.  M. 

Creamed  Chipped  Beef. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  in  frying  pan.  When  melted  add  one- 
quarter  pound  chipped  ])eef,  let  fry  until  well  browned,  stirring  often  to 
keep  from  burning.  When  well  browned  add  one  pint  of  milk.  When  it 
boils  thicken  with  two  tablespoons  of  flour  blended  with  water.       A.  M.  M. 


15 


Maryland  Fried  Chicken.  ^ 

Clean,  singe  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving  two  young  chickens.  Plunge 
in  cold  water,  drain  but  do  not  wipe.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
cover  with  flour,  having  as  much  flour  adhere  to  the  chicken  as  possible. 
Cut  one  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  in  small  pieces  and  try  it  out.  Cook  the 
chicken  slowly  in  fat  until  tender  and  well  browned.  Serve  with  white  sauce 
made  with  half  milk  and  half  cream.  E.  C. 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops. 

Wipe  chops,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  crumbs,  beaten  esg, 
imd  crumbs;  fry  in  deep  fat  about  seven  minutes  and  drain.  Never  fry  but 
three  at  a  time,  and  allow  fat  to  re-heat  before  frying.  After  testing  fat, 
put  in  chops  and  place  kettle  back  on  range,  so  that  the  outside  of  chop  may 
not  be  too  brown,  while  inside  is  still  under  done.  Mrs.  Ashley. 

Pan-broiled  Chops. 

Heat  a  frying  pan  very  hot.  Wipe  the  chops  and  trim  them.  Put  them 
into  hot  frying  pan  and  turn  them  every  ten  seconds  for  three  minutes.  Then 
cook  them  more  slowly,  turning  them  occasionally  until  they  are  done.  The 
average  chop  requires  about  eight  minutes.  J.  M. 

Irish  Stew  with  Dumplings. 

Wipe  and  cut  in  pieces  three  pounds  lamb.  Put  in  kettle,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  slowly  about  two  hours,  or  until  tender.  After  cooking 
one  hour,  add  one-half  cup  each  carrot  and  turnip  cut  in  cubes,  one  onion 
cut  in  small  slices.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving  add  three  cups  boiled 
potatoes.  Thicken  with  six  tablespoons  flour,  diluted  with  enough  cold 
water  to  form  a  paste.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Serve  with  dumplingc. 

Kidney  Stew. 

Carefully  wash  the  kidneys  and  boil  until  tender.  Set  aside  to  cool. 
When  quite  cool  cut  in  tiny  squares,  remove  all  fat.  Place  in  stew  pan  with 
one  tablespoon  butter,  little  salt,  dash  of  pepper,  and  a  large  cup  of  milk. 
Simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour,  then  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour, 
wet  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Serve  on  platter  with  small  squares  of  dry 
toast.  A.  Barber. 

Tripe  Fried  in  Batter. 

Wipe  tripe  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  in  batter,  fry  in  small  quantity  of  hot  fat  and  drain. 

Batter  for  Tripe., 

jSIix  one  cup  of  flour  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Add  gradually  one- 
half  cup  cold  water,  and  when  perfectly  smooth  add  one  egg  well  beaten, 
one-half  teaspoon  vinegar,  and  one  teaspoon  melted  butter.       M.   J.  C. 

16 


VEGETABLES. 

"The  common  ifrowth  of  Mother  Earth  suffices  me." 

Italian  Potato  Balls. 

Boil  six  medium  sized  potatoes.  Mash  potatoes.  Season  with  salt  and 
]jepper  and  add  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  some  chopped  parsley,  and  a  lit- 
tle chopped  onion  and  garlic.  Add  two  beaten  eggs.  Mix  well.  Shape  itito 
balls  on  a  tablespoon  and  fry  in  .^moking  hot  fat  until  l)rown.  Drain  on 
soft  paper.  M.  Cahill 

Potato  Cakes. 

Mash  thoroughly  ])otatoes  just  boiled.  Add  a  little  salt,  butter  and 
•  ream.     Make  into  little  cakes  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  M.  J.  C 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Parboil  and  ma.sh  six  good-sized  potatoes.  Add  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
two-thirds  cup  of  hot  milk,  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  When  cool  enough  to  handle,  work  into  .shape.  Roll  in  egg  and 
crumbs   and    fry   in    hot   lard.  M.    Cahill. 

Potatoes  Roasted  With  Meats. 

To  roast  potatoes  with  beef,  poultry  and  other  meats,  pare  the  potatoes, 
lay  them  in  a  pan  and  cook  them  in  the  gravy.  Both  white  and  sweet  po- 
tatoes may  1)e  roasted  in  the  same  pan  with  the  meat.         Jessie  Monteith. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. 

Two  cups  of  macaroni  Two  cups  white  sauce 

Three-fourths  cup  grated  cheese  (^ne-half  teaspoon  of  salt 

Boil  macaroni;  when  soft  add  white  sauce.  Put  in  baking  dish,  cover  with 
liuttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  D.  Thompson. 

Stewed  Celery. 

Wash  and  scrape  celery;  cut  in  one-half  inch  pieces,  and  boil  until  ten- 
der. Drain,  and  seive  with  vegetable  sauce;  make  as  white  sauce,  using 
one-half  celery  stock  and  one-half  cup  milk  for  each  two  cups  of  celery. 
Sauces  for  vegetables  may  be  thickened  with  twice  the  usual  quantity  of 
:~our  if  the  vegetables  are  very  moi.st.  E.  B.  C. 

17 


Baked  Tomatoes.  • 

Wash  ripe  tomatoes;  cut  in  halves  crosswise,  and  place,  skin  down,  in  a 
shallow  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  bits  of  but- 
ter on  top;  bake  till  soft,  20  to  30  minutes;  eat  with  sugar  if  desired. 

Serve  each  half  tomato  on  a  slice  of  buttered  toast.  A  small  green  pepper 
may  be  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkled  over 
the  tomatoes  before  the  butter  is  put  on.  Allow  one  pepper  and  one-half 
teaspoon  salt  and  one  tablespoon  butter  for  four  medium-sized  tomatoes. 

The  baked  tomatoes  may  be  served  with  a  thick  sauce,  made  by  using 
one  tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon  butter,  and  a  speck  of  pepper,  to  one- 
half  cup  milk,  or  strained  tomato  juice.  M.  L.  M. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Slice  firm  tomatoes  and  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry  in  butter.     Add  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sugar.        Mrs.  M.  C.  Creutz. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers. 

Cut  the  tcj.is  from  the  bell  of  the  peppers  carefully  and  remove  the  seeds. 
Chop  very  fine  one  small  onion  and  one  large  tomato  from  which  the  skin 
has  been  removed.  Add  an  equal  amount  of  bread  crumbs  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Moisten  it  with  melted  butter.  Fill  the  peppers  with  this 
mixture,  repkice  the  tops  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

:Mrs.  \L  C.  Creutz. 

Clieese  Potatoes. 

Six  potatoes  One  cup  of  milk 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter  3' our  tablespoons  of  grated  chce.se 

Two  tablespoons  of  flour  Yolks  of  two  eggs 

One  cup  of  soup  stock  Salt  and  red  pepper 

Boil  the  potatoes.  Melt  butter  and  add  flour.  Mix  till  smooth.  Add  soup 
stock  and  milk  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Take  from  stove  and  add  cheese, 
eggs,  salt  and  red  pepper.  Put  a  la)  er  of  potatoes  on  the  bottom  of  baking 
dish  and  then  a  layer  of  sauce  and  so  on  till  dish  is  filled.  Cover  with  bread 
.  rumbs.     Bake  in  quick  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

Italian  Potato  Omelet. 

Heat  in  frying  pan  one- fourth  cuji  cooking  oil  and  fr\-  one  chopped  onion 
and  a  little  chopped  par.sley.  Add  one  quart  sliced  potatoes.  Cover  and 
cook  until  soft.  I^ncover  and  pour  three  beaten  eggs  over  potatoes.  Season 
with  pep])er  and  salt.  Cook  until  omelet  is  firm  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter. M.  M.  D. 

18 


Sugared  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Cut  in  slices  cold  sweet  potatoes.  Put  in  shallow  dish  a  layer  of  potatoes, 
pieces  of  butter  and  sprinkle  with  brown  sugar.     Bake  until  brown. 

Creamed  Potatoes. 

One-quarter  cup  of  milk  ( )ne-eightii  tias])Oon  of  salt 

One-half  tablespoon  of  butter  A  few  grains  of  pepper 

Cut  the  potatoes  in  slices  and  allow  the  above  amount  for  each  cupful. 
Heat  milk  and  add  the  potatoes  and  stir  slowly  until  they  have  absorbed 
nearly  all  the  milk;  add  seasoning  and  stir  until  well  mixed;  cook  for  five 
minutes  and  serve  hot.    One  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley  may  be  added. 

Katherine  Trainer. 

Creamed  Cauliflower. 

Remove  leaves  from  cauliflower,  cut  off  stalk,  soak  thirty  minutes  head 
down  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Cook  (head  up)  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until 
soft,  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain  separate  flowerets  and  reheat  in  one 
and  one-half  cups  white  sauce. 

White  sauce — Two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  cup  milk, 
one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  pepper.  Cream  butter  and  flour,  stir 
in  hot  milk.     Cook  until  it  thickens.     Season.  Mrs.  J.  C. 

Stuffed  Onions. 

Remove  skins  from  onions  and  parboil  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salted 
water  to  cover.  Let  cool  and  remove  part  of  centre.  Fill  cavities  with 
chopped  cooked  chicken,  stale  soft  bread  crumbs,  and  the  onion  which  was 
removed,  also  chopped  fine.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  moisten  with 
cream  or  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs,  after  placing  them 
in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  onions  are  soft. 

A.  M.  M. 

Fried  Parsnips. 

Wash  parsnips  and  cook  about  fifty  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Drain,  plunge  in  cold  water,  when  skins  will  be  found  to  slip  off  easily. 
Mash,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Make  in  flat  round  cakes,  roll 
in  butter,  and  fry  in  butter.  M.  K.  M. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Scrape  the  corn  from  six  ears,  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
tiiree  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  added  to  enough  flour  (well  sifted)  to  make 
a  thin  batter.  No  milk  required.  Have  ready  a  frying  pan  with  hot  lard  and 
■A  little  butter.  Drop  from  tal)lespoon,  cook  quickly,  place  on  brown  paper 
in  oven.     Serve  hot.  M. 

19 


SALADS  and  SALAD  DRESSING. 

"To  make  a  perfect  salad  there  should  be  a  spendthrift  for  oil,  a  miser 
for  vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  madcap  to  stir  the  ingredients  up 
:'nd   mix  them   well   together." 

French  Dressing. 

One-half  teaspoon  salt  lour  tablespoons  oil 

One-quarter  teaspoon  pepper  Two  tablespoons  vinegar 

Mix  the  salt  and  pepper,  add  slowly  the  oil,  stirring  constantly;  add  the 
vinegar.     This  rule  with  a  green  salad  will  .serve  six  persons. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Ryan 

Salad  Dressing. 

Into  a  bowl  put  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoon dry  mustard,  one  tablespoon  soft  butter. 

Beat  until  smooth;  add  2  eggs  well  beaten  and  three-fourths  cup  of  milk; 
heat  in  double  boiler  to  boiling  point,  add  one-half  cup  vinegar  and  cook 
until  like  custard.     Let  cool  and  serve.  Mrs.  Annie  G.  Malley. 

Foch  Salad. 

Four  eggs  Salad  dressing 

Lettuce 
Separate  the  }  oiks  of  eggs  that  have  been  hard  cooked.     Chop  whites  fine, 
marinate  with  French  dressing  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves.     Force  yolks 
through  a  potato  ricer  and  j^ile  on  the  center  of  whites.     Serve  with  French 
Dressing.  Mrs.   Costigan. 

Boiled   Dressing. 

One-half  tablespoon  of  flour  Speck  of  cayenne  ])epper 

One  teaspoon  of  mustard  One  egg 

One  tablespoon  of  sugar  Two-thirds  cup  of  milk 

One  teaspoon  of  salt  Two  tablespoons  of  butter 

One-quarter  cup  of  hot  vinegar 
Mix  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  yolk  of  egg  and  add  to  dry  mixture. 
Add  milk  slowly,  then  vinegar.     Cook  mixture.   Stir  till  it  thickens.   Add 
fhe  butter  and  stir    Beat  the  white  of  egg  and  add  to  mixture 

Mrs.  Nicholson. 


20 


Cheap  Russian  Dressing. 

riirec  tai)les])Oons  of  Sniders  chili  sauce     Onc-hulf  teaspoon  of  salt 
!  wo  tablespoons  of  chopijed  pimentos         One-half  teaspoon  of  paprika 
One-half  teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar  One  tablespoon  of  olives 

One  cuj)  of  salad  oil  Speck  of  pepper 

(Me-half  teaspoon  of  mustard  One  egg 

One  tablespoon  of  Tarragon  vinegar 
Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  vinegar,  put  in  egg;  be  careful  not  to  break 
the  yolk.     Put  in  one-third  cup  of  oil  and  beat  with  egg  beater  one  minute. 
•Add  another  one-third  cup  of  oil  and  beat,  then  add  last  one-third  and  beat. 
To  this  add  the  chili  sauce,  jiimentos  and  olives.  M.  H.  R. 

Potato  Salad. 

Five  or  six  boiled  potatoes  One-half  teaspoon  of  salt 

One-half  small  onion,  cut  fine  One  tablespoon  of  sugar 

Parsley  Yolks  of  two  eggs 

One-half  teaspoon  of  mustard  One-half  cup  of  oil 

One-half  teaspoon   of  pepper  Two  tablespoons  of  vinegar 

Cut  potatoes  in  dice  shape.  Use  only  a  small  quantity  of  parsley.  Beat 
together  the  mustard,  pepper,  salt,  sugar  and  eggs.  Add  slowly  the  oil, 
beating  with  a  fork;  then  add  the  vinegar.  Pour  over  potatoes.  Add  slices 
of  hard  cooked  egg  and  pieces  of  beet  if  desired.  Mrs.  Shaw. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

One  teaspoon  sugar  Speck  cayenne 

One  teaspoon  dry  mustard  One  egg 

One  teaspoon  salt  Ihree-fourths  cup  oil 

One-fourth  cup  vinegar 
Mix  in  a  bowl  the  sugar,  salt,  cayenne,  mustard,  and  beat  until  smooth. 
.\.dd  egg,  unbeaten,  vinegar,   and  one-third  of  oil.     Beat  with  Dover  egg 
>-ater  one  minute.     Add  one-third  more  of  oil  and  beat.     Add  remainder  o^ 
oil  and  beat  two  minutes.     Every  ingredient  should  be  cold  before  combin- 
ing. Mrs.  A.  J    Malley. 

Salad  Combinations. 

Lettuce  and  tomatoes  Lettuce,  tomatoes  and  lima  beans 

Lettuce,  tomatoes  and  green  peas        Lettuce  and  chicken 

Lettuce  and  asparagus  tips  Lettuce  and  lobster 

Lettuce,  tom-itoes  and  onion  Lettuce  and  shrimp 

Lettuce,  onion  and  celery  Lettuce  and  salmon 

Lettuce,  celery  and  apples  Lettuce  and  sardine 

Lettuce,  tomatoes  and  cheese  Lettuce  and  egg 

Lettuce  and  radishes  Lettuce,  fruits  and  nuts 

Lettuce  and  pineapple  Lettuce,  prunes  and  pecans 

Lettuce,  potatoes  and  egg  Lettuce  and  potatoes  and  beet 

Water  cress  or  dandelion  may  be  used  instead  of  lettuce. 

21 


PUDDINGS  and  DESSERTS. 

"The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 

Apple  Snow. 

Four  baked  apples  or  one  cup  of  apple  sauce 

One  egg  white  Few  drops  of  lemon  juice 

1  wo  or  three  tablespoons  of  sugar 

Press  the  apples  through  a  strainer.  Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  until  stiff, 
add  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Gradually  beat  in  apples.  Serve  cold  with 
custard.  M.  O'B. 

Soft  Custard. 

Yelk  of  one  egg  Speck  of  salt 

Two  tablespoons  of  sugar  One  cup  of  hot  milk 

Beat  the  yolk  and  add  the  sugar  and  salt.  Add  milk  slowly.  Cook  in 
doublfe  boiler  until  thick  and  will  coat  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Flavor,  strain 
and  cool.  J.  P, 

Cream  Tapioca. 

One  pint  of  milk  One  egg 

One-quarter  cup  of  minute  tapioca       Speck  of  salt 

Two  tablespoons  of  sugar  One  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Scald  milk.  Cook  tapioca  till  transparent.  Add  sugar  and  beaten  yolk 
of  egg,  and  salt.  Put  in  double  boiler  again  and  let  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  and  add.  Remove  from  stove,  flavor. 
Serve  cold.  M.  J.  C. 

Peach  or  Apple  Tapioca. 

One  pint  of  boiling  water  Speck  of  salt 

One-quarter  cup  of  minute  tapioca      Two  tablespoons  of  sugar 
Two  cups  of  chopped   apples  or  peaches 
In  the  double  boiler  cook  the  water  or  the  syrup  from  canned  fruits,  and 
uipioca  till  transparent.     Add  salt,  sugar  and  fruit.     When  soft  turn  into 
moulds  and  serve  hot  or  cold.  L.  O.  J. 

Prune  Whip* 

One  pounds  of  prunes  Whites  of  four  eggs 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
Stew  the  prunes  in  as  little  water  as  possible.     Stone  and  chop  in  small 
])ieces.     Bea*  eggs  till  stiff  and  add  the  sugar.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  for 
lime  long  enough  to  brown.  Mrs.  N.  J.  Devlin. 

22 


Cornstarch  Blanc  Mange. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  milk  Speck  of  salr 

Four  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  One-half  cup  of  cold  milk 

Two  tablespoons  of  sugar  One-half  teaspoon  of  extract 

Scald  the  milk.  Mix  in  a  bowl  the  cornstarch,  sugar,  salt.  One  teaspoon 
of  cocoa  may  be  added.  Add  cold  milk  and  stir  slowly.  Add  hot  milk  and 
put  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Cook  over  fire  till  thick.  Cook  over  boiling 
water  for  15  minutes.  If  no  cocoa  has  been  added  flavor  with  extract. 
Turn  in  moulds  and  scn'e  cold  with  cream.  H.  J.  O. 

Suet  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  molasses  One-half  cuj)  of  currants 

One  cup  of  milk  Three  cups  of  flour 

One  cup  of  chopped  suet  One  teaspoon  of  soda 

One  cup  of  raisins  One  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt 

One-half  teaspoon  of  ginger,  cloves  and  nutmeg 
Sift  dry  ingredients.     Mix  in  order  given.      Put  in  greased    mould  and 
steam  three  hours. 

Mrs.  Donohue. 

Spanish  Cream. 

One-half  package  of  Swampscott  One  teaspoon  of  salt 

gelatine  One  quart  of  milk 

One-half  cup  of  sugar  Two  teaspoons  of  vanilla 

Volks  of  three  eggs 

Soak  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  milk.     Scald  remainder   of    milk. 

Add  milk  to  sugar  and  salt  and  beat  in  yolks  of  eggs.     Cool  until  thick. 

Add  soaked  gelatine.     Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff.    Mix  together;  add  the 

A  anilla.     Set  away  to  cool.  Mrs.  Griffin. 

Chocolate  Saucei. 

One  tablespoon  of  butter  One  square  of  chocolate 

One-half  cup  of  milk  or  cream 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water 

Dissolve  the  chocolate  over  kettle.  Add  sugar  to  butter.  Mix  together. 
Thin  with  milk  before  serving.  Mrs.  Parsons. 

Coffee  Mousse. 

One  quart  of  cream  Two  tablespoons  of  cold  water 

One  cup  of  hot,  strong  coffee  One  cup  of  sugar 

One-quarter  box  of  gelatine 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  add  to  coffee  and  sugar.  Set  in  pan  in 
ice  water  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  fold  in  whipped  cream. 
Pour  in  a  mould.     Cover  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  four  hours. 

Miss  D.  Redding. 
23 


Dutch   Apple   Pudding. 

One  tablespoon  luitter  One  egg 

One-half  cup  sugar  Four  teaspoons  baking  powder 

One  cup  milk  Two  cups  flour 

One-half  teaspoon  salt  Three  apples,  sliced 

Speck  of  cinnamon 
Mix  butter,  sugar,  egg  and  milk  together;   sift  in  baking  powder,  flour, 
salt  and  cinnamon.     Beat.     Put  batter  in  greased  pan,  sliced  apples  on  top. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar.    Serve  hot  with  any  kind  of  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Reidy. 

English  Plum   Pudding. 

One  pound  beef  suet  Six  eggs 

One  pound  raisins  ()ne  teaspoon  cinnamon 

One  pound  currants  (^ne  teaspoon  cloves 

One  pound  brown  sugar  One  teaspoon   nutmeg 

One  pound  bread  crumbs  One  cup  of  flour 

One-half  pound  citron  and  lemon  peel,  mixed 

Chop  suet  fine,  mix  in  the  order  given;  put  pudding  in  bag  and  boil  six 
hours;  serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  Frank  Loughran. 

Marshmallow  Charlotte    Russe. 

Whip  one  pint  heavy  cream  until  stiff;  fold  in  one-half  cup  powdered 
sugar,  the  stiflly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  cup 
marshmallows  (cut  into  small  pieces)  and  one-half  cup  chopped  walnuts. 
Line  a  mould  with  lady  fingers;  fill  with  the  cream  and  place  on  ice  for 
one  hour  !)efore  serving.  L.  M. 

Plum   Pudding. 

One  pound  currants  One-quarter  lea.s]Doon  cinnamon 

One  pound  raisins  (chopped)  ()ne-quarter  teaspoon  cloves 

One-quarter  pound  citron  One  teaspoon  baking  powder 

One-half  pound  brown   sugar  One  and  one-half  grated  nutmegs 

One-half  pound  flour  Four  eggs 

One-quarter  pound  bread  crumbs         One  and  one-half  lemons 
One-half  cup  molasses  One  and  one-half  cups  brandy 

One-half  pound  suet   (chopped  very  fine) 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  molasses;  then  the  well-beaten  eggs,  next  the  suet  and 
juice  of  lemons,  then  the  fruit  mixed  well;  next  add  baking  powder  and 
the  brandy.     Steam  five  hours.  Mrs.  Robert  Hyland. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding^ 

One  cup  of  tapioca  (Jne  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract 

One-half  cup  of  sugar  Two  or  three  apples 

Soak  tapioca  over  night  and  add  sugar  and  extract.  Cut  up  apples  and 
place  on  t0]3.     Bake  until  apples  are  soft.  Miss  M.  McNamara. 

24 


Cottage    Pudding, 

One-half  tea.-poou  of  sail  Three-quarters  cup  of  sugar 

Four  teaspoons  of  l)aking  powder         Three  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 
Two  cups  of  flour  One  egg 

One  cup  of  milk 
Mix  in  order  given.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  hot  sauce.  Mrs.  M.  Sullivan. 

Vanilla  Sauce  for  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  boiling  water  One  tablespoon  of  melted  hutttr 

One  cup  of  sugar  C)ne  egg 

One-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
Boil  water  and  sugar  for  five  minutes.     Add  butter.     Beat  egg  and  add. 
Stir  over  the  hre  until  it  thickens.     Add  vanilla.  Mrs.  M.  Sullivan. 

Rice  Puddings 

Three  cups  boiling  water  Two  cups  of  milk 

One  cup  of  rice  Two  eggs 

One  teaspoon  of  salt  One-half  cup  of  sugar 

Flavor  to  taste 
Boil  the  rice  with  the  salt  and  water.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  milk,  sugar 
and  flavoring.     Bake  twenty  minutes.  Miss  M.  McNamara. 

Bread  Pudding. 

Pieces  of  bread  (about  2  cups)  One  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

One-half  cup  of  raisins  One  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

One-half  cup  of  sugar  Two  eggs 

Two  cups  of  milk 
Soak  the  bread  in  milk  till  soft.     Beat  the    eggs  and    add  spice,    milk, 
sugar  and  raisins.     Bake  thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Miss  M.  McNamara. 

Snow  Pudding. 

One-half  box  of  Swampscott  gelatine  Juice  of  two  lemons 
One  cup  of  cold  water  Sugar  to  taste 

One  cup  boiling  water  Whites  of  two  eggs 

Speck  of  salt 
Pour  cold  water  over  gelatine.     Let  stand  one-half  hour.     Add  boiling 
water,  lemon,  sugar,  and  let  cool.     Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Beat  with  gelatine  and  pour  in  moulds.  Mrs.  Drumgoole. 

Eggless  Rice  Pudding. 

One-half  cup  of  rice  One-quarter  cup  of  sugar 

One-quarter     teaspoon  of  salt  Two  quarts  of  boiling  water 

Mix  together.     Put  in  deep  pudding  dish,    and  bake    slowly  for    three 
hours.  M.  A.  Starkey. 

25 


stuffed  Prunes*  * 

One  pound  of  prunes 
Soak  the  prunes  over  night  and  stuff  with  chopped  nuts,  raisins  or  apri- 
cots.   Dates  may  be  used  instead  of  prunes.    Marshmallow  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  nuts,  etc.  S.  A.  C. 

Steamed  Puddingy. 

Two  eggs  One  cup  of  currants 

One  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine  One  cup  of  molasses 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk  'J  wo  cups  of  flour 

Two  cups  of  raisins  One  teaspoon  of  soda 

One  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg 
Steam  three  hours.  Mrs.   MacCalduff. 

Thanksgiving  Pudding. 

One-third  cup  of  suet  One-half  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

One-half  pound  of  figs  One-half  cup  of  raisins 

Three-quarters  cup  of  milk  Two  tablespoons  of  flour 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar  i'our  eggs 

One  teaspoon  of  salt  Two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Three-quarters  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 

Heat  milk,  add  crumbs,  flour,  spices  and  baking  powder.  Beat  eggs  and 
add  to  other  ingredients.     Steam  in  tin  three  hours. 

Catherine  M.  McDonald. 
Sauce  for  Pudding 
Two  eggs  One  cup  of  sugar 

Three  tablespoons  of  wine  j 

Stand  bowl  in  hot  water  while  beating.  Catherine  McDonald. 

Banana  Snow^ 

Mash  two  bananas  and  beat  with  white  of  one  egg  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Then  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  again.  In  a  short  time  you  will 
have  a  delicious  bowl  of  banana  snow.  This  may  be  served  with  plain  cake, 
pudding  or  gelatin.  Mrs.  Mitchell. 


26 


PIES  and  CAKES. 

"No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes, 
As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies." 

One  Egg  Cake., 

One-fourth  cup  butter  One-half  cup  milk 

One-half  cup  sugar  One  and  one-half  cups  flour 

One  egg  One- fourth  teaspoon  salt 

Two  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  egg  well  beaten  Mix  and 
;ift  flour  and  baking  powder,  add  alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture. 
Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  shallow  pan.     Spread  with  chocolate  frosting. 

Mrs.  A.  J.  Wolfe. 

Fruit  Calce> 

One-half  package  raisins  Two  teaspoons  cinnamon 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar  Two  tablespoons  butter  or  shortening 

Two  cups  boiling  water 
Mix  all  together  and  boil  until  mixture  bubbles.     Let  cool.     Then  add 
two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  soda  and  one  and  one-half  teaspoon 
salt.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Reidy. 

Thanksgiving   Cake. 

One  cup  brown  sugar  One-half  teaspoon  cloves 

One  cup  raisins  'One-half  teaspoon  cinnamon 

One  cup  water  One-half  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Two  tablespoons  lard  or  dripping        One-half  teaspoon  allspice 

Boil  these  for  five  minutes  and  let  cool. 

One-half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  boiling  water;  add  to 
the  above  when  cooled.  Then  add  two  cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon  bak- 
ing soda,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  forty- five  to  fifty  minutes. 

Miss  Katherine  G.  Loftus. 

Spice  Cake, 

One-half  cup  butter  substitute  One  teaspoon  ginger 

One  cup  sugar  ( >ne-half  teaspoon  allspice 

One  cup  molasses  One-quarter  teaspoon  cloves 

( >ne  cup  sour  milk  Two  and  one-half  cups  flour 

One  teaspoon  cinnamon  One  cup  seedless  raisins 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar;  add  molasses,  spices  and  sour  milk,  in 
which  a  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved,  sift  flour  and  beat  into  mixture. 
Bake  about  forty  minutes.  Mrs.  M.  L.  Lavin. 

29 


Custard  Pie.  • 

One  tablespoon  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

One  cup  sugar       ,  Pinch  of  grated  nutmeg 

Yolks  of  three  eggs  Whites  of  three  eggs 

One  pint  of  milk 
Stir  flour  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  beat 
■vvell.    Then  add  salt,  nutmeg,  and  well-beaten  whites.    Lastly  add  the  milk. 
Make  an  undercrust,  and  add  above  filling.     Bake  about  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Margaret  Gill. 

Orange  Pie. 

'J'hree-quarters  cup  sugar  Three  tablespoons  orange  juice 

Three-quarters  cup  boiling  water         Grated  rind  of  one  orange 
Three  tablespoons  cornstarch  One  teaspoon  butter 

Two  egg  yolks  One  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Mix  cornstarch  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  Cook 
two  minutes,  add  butter,  egg  yolks,  and  rind  and  juices.  Line  plate  with 
paste  same  as  for  the  above  pies.  Turn  in  mixture  which  has  been  cooled, 
and  bake  until  pastry  has  been  well  browned.  Cool  slightly  and  cover  with 
meringue;  then  return  to  the  oven  and  bake  the  meringue. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Zimmerman. 

Lemon  Pie  (No.  1). 

One  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  Two  yolks  of  eggs 

One  cup  of  boiling  water  Rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons 

One-half  cup  of  sugar  One  tablespoon  of  butter 

Mix  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  boiling  water,  and  let  boil; 
add  sugar,  }olks  of  eggs,  and  the  lemons  and  butter.  Cool  mixture,  line 
plate  with  crust;  while  crust  is  baking  beat  the  whites  of  eggs,  one  heaping 
teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar,  to  a  froth.  Pour  filling  in  crust,  and  spread 
whites  over  the  top.    Brown  in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  Finnerty. 

Lemon  Pie   (No.  2) 

One  cup  of  boiling  water  Two  yolks  of  eggs 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon 

One  and  one-half  tablespoon  cornstarch,  mixed  with  a  little  water 

Add  to  cornstarch  cup  of  water  (be  sure  the  water  is  boiling).     Let  boil 

for  two  minutes,  then  add  other  ingredients  until  it  thickens.     Before  re- 
rioving  from  fire  add  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut.     When  ready  to  serve 

put  in  baked  pie  crust,  beat  up  white  of  eggs  stiff.     Add  two  teaspoons  of 

granulated  sugar.     Set  brown.  Mrs.  Shaw. 


30 


Squash   Pie. 

Two  cups  of  squash  One  teaspoon  cinnamon 

One  or  two  eggs  One-half  teaspoon  ginger 

One-half  cup  molasses  One-half  teaspoon  salt 

IMix  squash  and  molasses.  Add  seasoning  and  beaten  eggs  and  milk, 
tiake  in  pastry  lined  pie  plate  until  firm.  Mrs.  Nicholson. 

Mince  Pie. 

One  package  None  Such  mincemeat     Small  portion  of  suet 
One  and  one-half  pounds  beef  One  level  teaspoon  allspice 

Six  or  seven  good-sized  apples  One-half  cup  cider 

One  package  raisins  One  small  cup  sugar 

One-quarter  teaspoon  salt 
Mix  in  order  given,   and  after  making  crust,  add  above  filling.     This 
amount  makes  enough  for  three  large  pies.     The  mince  must  be  made  the 
day  before.  Mrs.  Lynch. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie. 

One  cup  of  cranberries,  cut  in  halves;  put  in  colander  and  shake  seeds 
out.  One  cup  raisins  cut  up,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
stir  well  together.  One  cup  boiling  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  vanilla, 
eight  drops  almond  extract.    Bake  with  two  crusts. 

Margaret  R.   Gibson. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

One  and  one-half  cups  pumpkin  (cooked) 

Two-thirds  cup  brown  sugar  Two  eggs 

One  teaspoon  cinnamon  One    and  one-half  cups  milk 

One-half  teaspoon  ginger  One-half  cup  cream 

One-half  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  in  order  given  and  pour  into  a  pastr}^  lined  dish  or  pie  plate  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm.  Mrs.  P.  W.  L>Tich. 

"Pershing"   Pie. 

One  cup  of  sugar  Thirty  drops  of  vanilla 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  milk  One-half  cup  of  butter 

Two  cups  of  flour  Two  eggs 

One-half  teaspoon  of  salt 

Two  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  milk,  eggs  well  beaten,  salt,  melted  but- 
ter, vanilla,  also  sift  flour  and  baking  powder,  and  add.  Put  in  three  small 
pie  plates  and  cook  forty-five  minutes.  Fill  with  mocha  filling,  one  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  cocoa,  two  table- 
spoons of  coffee,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Mix  and  spread  between  layers. 
^  H.  M.  C. 

31 


Pie   Crust  for  One   Pie.  « 

I^our  tablespoons  lard  One  and  one-half  cups  flour 

One   teaspoonful    salt 
Rub  the  lard  into  the  flour  and  salt.     Add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.     Chill  and  roll  out  on  a  slightly  floured  board.     A  speck  of 
baking  powder  may  be  added.     Handle  as  little  as    possible,    because  too 
much  handling  makes  the  dough  stiff  and  heavy.       Mrs.  P.  J.  Trainor. 

Apple  Pie. 

I'our  or  Ave  apples  One-eighth  teaspoon  salt 

One-half  cup  sugar  One  teaspoon  butter 

One-quarter  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  One  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
Few  gratings  lemon  rind 
Line  plate  with  paste.  Pare,  core,  and  cut  the  apples  into  eighths,  put 
row  around  plate,  one-half  inch  from  the  edge,  and  work  towards  the  cen- 
tre until  the  plate  is  covered,  then  pile  on  the  remainder.  Mix  the  sugar, 
nutmeg,  salt,  lemon  juice,  and  grated  rind,  and  sprinkle  over  apples.  Dot 
with  butter,  and  put  on  the  top  crust.  Press  edges  firmly  together  and  bake 
m  a  moderate  oven  about  forty-five  minutes.  Mrs.  O'Toole. 

Blueberry  Pie. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  berries  One-half  cup  sugar 

Flour  One-eighth  teaspoon  salt 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  plain  paste,  fill  with  berries  slightly  dredged 
with  flour,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  salt,  cover  with  crust  and  bake  forty- 
five  to  fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  For  sweetening  some  prefer  to  use 
one-third  molasses,  the  remaining  two-thirds  to  be  sugar.  Six  green  grapes 
(from  which  seeds  have  been  removed)  cut  in  small  pieces,  much  improve 
the  flavor,  particularly  where  huckleberries  are  used.         Mrs.  Hennessey. 

Plain   Layer  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter  Three  cups  flour 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar  Juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon 

One  cup  milk  Four  eggs 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Bake  in  layer  tins,  in  a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Margaret  O'Driscoll. 

Lily  Cake^ 

Whites  of  three  eggs  One  cup  of  milk 

Two-thirds  cup  of  butter  Two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour 

One  and  three-quarter  cups  of  sugar  Three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
One  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 

Mar\'   MacCalduff. 

32 


Soldier  Boy  Cake. 

One  cup  of  raisins  Two  cups  of  flour 

One  cup  of  sugar  or  molasses  One  teaspoon  soda   . 

One-half  cup  of  melted  shortening      One-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 
One  cup  of  coffee,  left  over  from  breakfast 
One-half  teaspoon  of  nutmeg  and  cloves 

Boil  together  coffee  and  shortening  three  minutes.  Sift  together  dry  ingre- 
dients. Mix  all  together  and  beat.  Pour  into  baking  pans  (do  not  have  too 
thin).    Bake  slowly  one  hour.    Do  not  cut  it  the  day  you  bake.      J.  S.  D. 

Peace  Cake. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter  Three-quarters  cup  of  milk 

Three-quarters  cup  of  sugar  One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour 

Two  eggs 
Two  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Mix  in  order  given  and  beat  well.  Bake  forty  minutes.  Split  into  layers. 
Spread  between  the  layers  and  ontop  this  frosting;  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten.  Boil  to- 
gether until  creamy  and  spread  on  cake.  Mrs.  Costigan. 

Pound  Cakes. 

One-third  cup  butter  Yolks  of  two  egg.=;,  well  beaten 

One-half  cup  sugar  One-half  teaspoon  baking  powder 

One-half  tablespoon  milk  Three-quarters  cup  flour 

One-quarter  teaspoon  salt  Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff 

B.  Salloway. 

MacDonald  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter  creamed  One-half  cup  of  corn  stardi 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  One  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

One  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  One-half  teaspoon  of  soda 

One-half  cup  of  milk 
One  and  one-half  cups  of  pastry  flour 

Four  whites  of  eggs 


Mrs.  Labertv. 


Layer  Cake. 


Two  tablespoons  molasses  Little  nutmep 

I' our  tablespoons  melted  butter  One  cup  sugar 

One  teaspoon  salt  One  egg 

One  teaspoon  cinnamon  One  cup  sour  milk 

One-quarter  teaspoon  cloves  Two  cups  flour 

One  teaspoon  soda 

Anne  McDonough. 
33 


Mocha  Filling^  ^ 

One  cup  confectioners'  sugar  One  tablespoon  butter   (melted) 

Two  tablespoons  cocoa  I'wo  tablespoons  hot  coffee 

Pour  coffee  over  the  mixture  and  beat  until  creamy.     Spread  between  and 
over  cake.  Mrs,  Laberty. 

Enterprise  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar  One  teaspoon  nutmeg 

One  cup  sour  milk  One-quarter  teaspoon  clove 

Two  cups  flour  One  cup  chopped  raisins 

One  teaspoon  soda  One-half  teaspoon  salt 
One  teaspoon  cinnamon 
One-half  cup  butter  or  beef  drippings 

This  is  a  dark  cake  without  eggs.  M.  Cahill. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar  One-half  cup  sour  milk 

One-half  cup  butter,  melted  One  teaspoon  salt 

One-third  cake  chocolate  or  One  level  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Three  tablespoons  cocoa  One  level  teaspoon  soda 

Two  eggs  One-half  cup  cold  water 

One  teaspoon  vanilla  flavoring 

Bake  in  three  layers  in  very  moderate  oven 

Cream  Frosting  for  Chocolate  Cake 

Add  about  one  cup  powdered  sugar  to  enough  cream  to  spread  well,  and 
flavor  with  o  little  vanilla.  Mary  A.  Hanafin. 

Chocolate  Cake   (No.  2). 

One-half  cup  butter  One  and  one-half  cups  flour 

One  cup  sugar  Two  ounces  chocolate,  melted 

Two  eggs  One-half  teaspoon  vanilla 

One-half  cup  milk  One-fourth  teaspoon  salt 

Two  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  egg  yolks  well  beaten,  then 
whites  beaten  until  stiff.     Add  milk,  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder  and  salt,  and  beat  thoroughly.     Then  add  chocolate  and  vanilla. 
Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  shallow  cake  pan.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Wolfe. 

Substitute  Cake;. 

Three-eighths  cup  of  fat  One  cup  of  mashed  potato 

Two  squares  of  chocolate  Three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Iwo  eggs  One-half  teaspoon  salt 

One  and  one-  eighth  cups  of  flour  One-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  sup  Karo  syrup 

Mrs.  Russell. 

34 


Black  Cake. 

One  level  cup  sugar  One-half  cup  milk 

Three  eggs,  beaten  light  l\vo  level  cups  flour 

Four  tablespoons  butter  One-half  level  teaspoon  salt 

Two  ounces  melted  chocolate  One-half  level  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Two  and  one-half  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  beaten  light,  add  the  melted 
chocolate  and  milk.  The  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon  and  salt  should 
be  sifted  together  four  times.     Bake  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  P.  G^earin. 

Cream  Puffs. 

Melt  a  half  a  cup  of  butter  in  one  cup  of  hot  water.  While  boiling  beat 
in  one  cup  of  flour.  When  cool  stir  in  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  without 
beating.  Then  beat  well.  Drop  the  mixture  on  tins  in  small  spoonfuls  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Filling.  One  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  two  eggs,  four  tablespoons  of 
fiour,  sugar  to  taste.     Cook  in  double  boiler. 

Another  Filling.  Whip  one  cup  sweet,  thick  cream,  stir  in  one  cup 
mashed  strawberries,  fresh  or  canned,  and  add  sugar  to  taste. 

Mrs.  T.  Mitchell. 

War  Cake. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar  One  package  seedless  raisins 

Two  cups  hot  water  One  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Two  tablespoons  butter  One  teaspoon  cloves 

One  teaspoon  salt 
Boil  all  together  for  five  minutes  after  they  commence  to  bubble.    When 
cold  add  four  cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
One  egg  may  be  added.     Bake  in  two  loaves  forty-five  minutes  in  a  slow 
oven.  Mrs.  White. 

Washington  Pie. 

One-third  cuij  l)utter  One-half  cup  milk 

One  cup  sugar  One  and  one-third  cups  flour 

Two  eggs  One-half  tea?poon  salt 

Two  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Bake  in  pic  tins  and  add  fillling.  M.  Doherty. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  apple  sauce  Four  cups  of  flour 

Two  teaspoons  of  soda  One  cup  of  shortening 

One-half  teaspoon  of  cloves  One-half  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

One  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  Two  cups  of  sugar 

Two  cups  of  raisins  One-half  teaspoon  of  salt 


Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


35 


Eggless,   Milkless   and   Butterless   Cake* 

Two  cups  brown  sugar  Two  tablespoons  lard 

Two  cups  water  One  pound  seeded  raisins 

One  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  cinnamon 

Boil  together  for  five  minutes;  when  cool  add  three  cups  flour  and  one 
and  one-half  teaspoon  soda.  Bake  in  slow  oven.  It  is  better  when  a  few 
days  old.  Mrs.  Fitzgibbon. 

Thrift  Cake. 

One-half  cup  sugar  One  tablespoon  lard  (or  drippings) 

One-half  cup  molasses  One  egg 

One-half  cup  milk  One  cup  raisms 

One-quarter  teaspoon  each  mace,  clove,  cinnamon  and  salt 
Two  and  one-half  cups  flour  One  teaspoon  soda 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  the  lard,  and  sugar.  Beat  again  and  add  milk  and 
molasses.  Sift  together  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  spices  and  soda; 
then  add  raisms  and  beat  to  a  stiff  batter.    Bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  F.  W,  Doyle. 

Dark  Fruit  Cake. 

One  and  one -half  cups  flour  One  cup  raisins 

One  teaspoon  baking  soda  Two  teaspoons  allspice 

One  cup  molasses  One  egg 

One-half  cup  sugar  One-fourth  teaspoon  salt 

As  much  milk  as  needed  to  make  a  drop  batter.      Mrs.  D.  F.  Reardon. 

Delicate  Cake4 

One-half  cup  butter  One-half  cup  milk 

One  cup  sugar  Two  eggs  (whites  only) 

Two  cups  flour  Two  teaspoons  baking  powder 

One-fourth  teaspoon  salt 
Almond,  vanilla  or  lemon  extract  for  flavoring 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Ryan. 

Plain  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar  Three-quarters  cup  milk 

Two  eggs  Two  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Four  tablespoons  butter  Two  cups  flour 

Mix  together  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Flavor  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Mrs.  Madden. 

Irish  Cake. 

One  quart  flour  Two  tablespoons  sugar 

One  tablespoon  baking  powder  Two  teaspoons  salt 

One  cup  raisins  One  tablespoon  butter 

One  tablespoon  caraway  seeds  One  pint  buttermilk 

Mrs.  M.  Blaney. 
36 


BREAD  and  ROLLS. 

"The  verv  staff  of  life,  the  comfort  of  the  husband,  and  the  pride  of  the 
Aife." 

Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes. 

One  cuj)  of  buckwheat  flour  One  tablespoon  of  sugar 

One-half  teaspoon  of  salt  One  cup  of  milk 

Two  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  twice,  add  milk.  Stir  well.  Fry  on  hot 
greased  pan.  Mrs.  Wallace. 

WafFles. 

One  pint  flour  One-half  teaspoon  of  salt 

One  teaspoon  baking  powder  I'hree  eggs 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  milk  One  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  milk,  then  the  melted  butter  and 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  last.    Serve  with  lemon  syrup  or  butter. 

Mrs.  C.  Jones. 

Sour  Milk  Pancakes^ 

One  egg  Speck  of  salt 

One-half  teaspoon  of  soda  One  cup  of  sour  milk 

Dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water  One  cup  flour 

Beat  well,  fry  on  hot  greased  pan.  Mrs.  Teehan. 

Tea  Muffins^ 

One-third  cup  of  butter  One  egg,  beaten  light 

One-quarter  cup  of  sugar  Three-quarters  cup  of  milk 

One  teaspoon  of  salt  Two  cups  of  flour 

Four   teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.    Add  salt,  egg,  milk  and  flour.    Bake  twenty- 
live  minutes.  Mrs.  M.  T.  Leonard. 

Oatmeal  Bread. 

Three  cups  of  oatmeal  One  yeast  cake 

One  tablespoon  shortening  White  flour 

Three  tablespoons  molasses  One  tablespoon  salt 

Pour  boiling  water  on  oatmeal,  about  one  cup,  and  stir;  let  cool  until  luke- 
warm, then  beat  lard  in,  add  molasses,  mix  yeast  into  one  cup  of  lukewarm 
water,  mix  all  together,  then  sift  flour  in  and  two  tablespoons  of  salt;  stir 
with  spoon,  then  knead  in  with  flour  just  like  white  bread.  This  makes  four 
loaves  and  one  pan  of  biscuits.  Mrs.  Brooks. 

37 


Sweet  Bread. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  water  One  cup  of  sugar 

One  tablespoon  salt  One  half-pound  lard 

One  yeast  cake  mixed  with  one-half  cup  lukewarm  water 
One-half  pound  of  raisins  or  curraifts 
One  teaspoon  each,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  caraway  seeds 
TlouT  to  make  a  dough  same  as  white  bread 

This  will  make  six  large  loaves.  '  Mrs.  Crutz. 

Squash  Bread. 

Two  talj]es]jcon  of  sugar  One  tablespoon  of  butter 

One  teaspoon  of  salt 
One  and  one -half  cups  of  scalded  milk 
One  cup  of  winter  squash,  steamed  and  strained 
One  }east  cake,  mixed  with  one-quarter  cup  lukewarm  water 
Use  flour  enough  to  knead 
Mix  sugar  and  the  butter,  salt,  and  squash,  and  when  cool  add  the  yeast 
and  flour.    Knead  for  fifteen  minutes,  let  it  rise  till  light,  knead  and  shape 
aito  loaves  or  biscuits.     When  well  risen,  bake.  Mrs.  T.  Britt. 

Irish  Bread. 

One  quart  of  flour  Two  level  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar 

One  tablespoon  baking  powder 
Mix  together  and  add  the  following: 
One  teaspoon  salt  One  tablespoon  of  lard 

Two  tablespoons  of  sugar  One-half  cup  of  raisins 

Wet  with  buttermilk.     Bake  in  a  pie  plate  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Butler. 

Swedish  Rolls. 

Two  cups  of  milk  One-half  cup  of  sugar 

One-half  yeast  cake  One  cup  of  currants 

One-quarter  cup  of  lukewarm  water    Three  tablespoons  of  cinnamon 
Two  eggs  Flour  to  knead 

One-quarter  cup  of  butter  One-half  cup  of  chopped  citron 

Two  teaspoons  of  salt 

Make  as  for  bread.  Let  rise  twice  to  double  its  bulk.  Then  roll  one- 
quarter  inch  thick.  Roll  like  a  jelly  roll,  cut  in  slices.  Let  rise  again.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Miss  Annie  O'Donnell. 

White  Bread. 

Four  quarts  of  white  flour  Two  tablespoons  of  sugar 

'y-wo  tablespoons  of  salt  Two  tablespoons  shortening 

Dissolve  yeast  in  cup  of  lukewarm  water.  Mix  with  enough  lukewarm 
water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Rub  shortening  over  the  top  to  prevent  crust. 
Let  rise  over  night  in  warm  place.  Mould  loaves.  Put  in  greased  pans  and 
let  rise  until  they  double  their  size.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  for  about 
one  hour.  Mrs.  Lynch. 

38 


Whole  Wheat  Bread. 

Two  cups  scalded  milk  ( )ne  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

One-quarter  cup  sugar  or  molasses  one-quarter  cup  of  M'arm  water 

One  teaspoon  salt  Tive  cups  of  whole  wheat  flour 

One  cup  of  white  flour 
Add  sweetening  and  salt  to  milk,  cool,  and  when  lukewarm  add  dissolved 
}east  and  flour;  beat  well,  cover,  and  let  rise  to  double  its  bulk;  turn  into 
greased  pans,  having  pans  half  full.    Let  rise  and  bake.    Whole  wheat  bread 
should  not  quite  double  itself  in  last  rising.  Mrs.  Parsons. 

Graham  Bread. 

Two  quarts  white  flour  Two  tablespoons  molasses 

Three  cups  graham  flour  One  tablespoon  lard 

One  tablespoon  sugar  One  yeast  cake 

Two  teaspoons  salt  I,ukewarm  water  to  make  soft  dough 

Amount  for  two  loaves  and  a  pan  of  biscuits.  Mrs.  James  Ford. 

Nut  Bread  (white)  ^ 

Three  and  one-half  cups  flour  One  cup  of  sugar 

One  tablespoon  lard  One  cup  of  broken  walnuts 

One  teaspoon  salt  One  es;g 

Two  tablespoons  baking  powder 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  of  milk,  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter 

Mix  all  well,  put  in  greased  pan  and  bake  one  hour.      Jessie  Montieth. 

One  Egg  Muffins* 

Two  cups  of  flour  vOne-half  teaspoon  of  salt 

Four  teaspoons  of  baking  powder         One  cup  of  milk 
Two  tablespoons  of  sugar  One  egg 

Two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 
Mix  and  5-ift  dry  ingredients,  adding  gradually  milk,  egg  well  beaten, 
'and  melted  butter.     Bake  in  buttered  pans  twenty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Parsons. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits. 

One  quart  of  flour  One  teaspoon  of  salt 

Three  tablespoons  of  baking  powder 
ITiree  tablespoons  of  shortening  worked  in 

Sift  twice.  Mix  Avith  milk  or  water,  just  like  bread.     Roll  light  and  cut. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twelve  minutes  .  Mrs.  Lynch. 

Johnny  Cake. 

Three  cups  of  cornmeal  Two  cups  of  milk 

Two  cups  of  white  flour  One  cup  of  water 

One-half  cup  of  sugar  One  teaspoon  of  salt 

Three  tablespoons  of  baking  powder    One  egg 

jSIix  in  order  given.  Mrs.  M.  J.  Salway 

39 


Pop  Overs. 

Two  eggs  (beaten  light)  Two  cups  of  milk 

Two  cups  of  flour  One-half  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  two  minutes. 

Bake  about  thirty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven     Serve  hot.      .    Mrs.  Shaw. 

Parker  House  Rolls. 

Two  cups  of  scalded  milk  One  yeast  cake 

riiree  tablespoons  of  butter  (3ne  teaspoon  of  salt 

'T\vo  tablespoons  of  sugar  Three  cups  of  flour 

Add  butter  and  sugar  to  milk,  when  lukewarm  add  yeast,  dissolved  in  one- 
<:]uarter  cup  of  warm  water.  Mix  salt  with  flour  and  add.  Beat  thoroughly; 
let  rise  until  light,  cut  down  and  add  sufficient  flour  to  knead.  Let  rise,  put 
on  flour-covered  board  and  cut  in  regular  size.  Let  rise  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  fifteen  minutes.  Mrs.  M.  O'Donnell. 

Corn  Muffins^ 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  Two  eggs 

One-half  cup  of  cornmeal  One  cup  of  niilk 

One  teaspoon  of  salt 
Two  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg 
Mix  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  eggs,  milk,  and  butter.     Beat  well.     Bake 
in  hot  oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  buttered  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  Doherty. 

Eggless  Corn  Bread. 

One  cup  corn  meal  One  teaspoon  salt 

One-half  cud  white  flour  Two  tablespoons  shortening 

One  tablespoon  baking  powder  One  cup  of  milk 

Mix  and  sift  ingredients  and  add  shortening  and  milk.  Beat  thoroughly, 
1-our  into  grcv.sed  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Miss  K.  A.  Loftus. 

Oatmeal  Muffins. 

Two-thirds  cup  of  oatmeal  One  cup  of  scalded  milk 

One  and  one- half  cups  of  flour  One  egg 

One-half  teaspoon  of  salt  lliree  tablespoons  of  sugar 

Four  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Two  level  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 

Turn  scalded  milk  on  oatmeal  and  let  cool,  add  sugar,  salt,  and  melted 
butter.  Sift  in  flour  and  baking  powder.  Mix  and  add  egg  well  beaten. 
Bake  in  buttered  pans.  Mrs.  M.  F.  Leonard. 

40 


Cream  of  Tartar  Biscuits. 

Two  cups  of  flour  One  teaspoon  of  salt 

Four  teaspoons  of  baking  powder         Two  tablespoons  fat 

Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  water  and  milk  in  equal  parts 

Marion  Leonard. 

Graham  Muffins. 

One  cup  of  ;Trahani  flour  One  cup  of  milk 

One-quarter  cup  of  sugar  One  egg 

One  cup  of  white  flour  Two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 

Four  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
Mix  in  order  given.  M.  Parsons. 

Cheese  Gingerbread. 

One  cup  of  molasses  Two  cups  of  flour 

One-third  cup  of  cheese,  cut  small       One  teaspoon  of  ginger 
One-half  cup  of  water  One-half  teaspoon  of  salt 

Four  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
Heat  molasses  and  cheese  in  double  boiler.     When    cheese  is    melted  re- 
move from  fire,  add  other  ingredients.     Bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.   Costigan. 

Ginger  Bread. 

One-half  cup  of  butter  lour  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Two  tablespoons  of  sugar  One  egg 

One-half  cup  of  molasses  One  cup  of  rnilk 

Two  cups  of  sifted  flour  Speck  salt  < 

One  teaspoon  ginger 
Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  in  the    shortening,  and    egg  well    beaten. 
]'our  into  greased  pans  and  bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  Giblin. 

Brown  Bread. 

'.^wo  cups  rye  flour  One-half  cup  molasses 

Two  cups  corn  meal  One  teaspoon  salt 

One  cup  white  flour  One  teaspoon  soda 

Use  enough  sour  milk  to  make  a  batter.  Add  little  shortening.     Mix  in 
order  and  steam  it  two  and  one-half  hours  in  greased  brown  bread  tin. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Salway. 

Bran  Muffins. 

'j"wo  cups  of  bran  One-half  cup  of  molasses 

One  cup  of  fiour  C">ne  tablespoon  of  baking  powder 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  milk  One-half  teaspoon  of  salt 

Bake  in  gem  pans  forty  minutes.  A.  M.  M. 

41 


Soft  Ginger  Bread.  ^ 

Three  cups  of  flour  One  teas])oon  of  cinnamon 

One-quarter  cup  of  molasses  Two-thirds  cups  of  sugar 

One  egg  well  beaten  One  cup  of  raisins 

One  tablespoon  of  shortening  A  little  salt 

Two  teaspoons  of  ginger  Sour  milk  enough  to  make  soft  batter 

One  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  soda 

Mrs.  E.  T.  Carroll. 


DOUGHNUTS  and  COOKIES. 

Dinner  may  be  pleasant, 

So  may  social  tea; 
But  yet  methinks  the  breakfast 

Is  the  best  of  all  the  three. 

Sour  Milk  Doughnuts. 

One  cup  of  sugar  Flour  enougli  to  roll  out 

One-half  teaspoon  of  soda  I  wo  eggs 

Oneteaspoon  of  salt  One  cup  of  sour  milk 

One-quarter  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

One  teaspoon  of  butter 


Mary  MacCalduff. 


Rocks. 


C)ne  and  one-half  cups  sugar  One  teaspoon  soda  in  | 

Four  eggs  One  teaspoon  hot  water  j 

One  cup  butter  One  teaspoon   cinnamon  I 

Two  and  one-half  cups  flour  Pinch  of  salt  j 

One  and  one-half  cups  chopped  raisins  i 

One  pound  English  walnuts  (chopped) 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Beat  in  the  eggs.  Flour  raisins,  put  in  other  in- 
gredients, and  put  the  hot  water  in.  They  should  be  quite  stiff  when  mixed, 
so  they  could  drop  off  a  spoon.  Mrs.  Bradford  Wilson. 

Dainty  Vanilla  Wafers^. 

One  cup  sugar  Fwo-thirds  teaspoon  soda 

Two-thirds  cup  butter  Two  teaspoons  vanilla 

Four  tablespoons  milk  Flour  to  roll  very  thin 

One  egg 
One  and  one-half  teaspoons  cream  tartar 

Cut  in  round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Melvin  L.  Breath. 

42 


Chocolate  Doughtnuts. 

One  cup  of  sugar  Three  teaspoons  of  baking  jKJwder 

One  egg  Speck  of  salt 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter  Three  tablespoons  of  cocoa 

Use  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.     Fry  in  hot  fat  and  roll  in  sugar. 
Use  srriall  biscuit  cutter  for  cutting.  M.  M.  O. 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes, 

One  cup  of  corn  meal  One-half  teaspoon  salt 

One  cup  white  flour  Two  cups  sour  milk 

One  egg  One  teaspoon  of  soda 

One  tablespoon  of  butter 
Beat  together  and  cook  on  hot  greased  frying  pan.  A.  M.  M. 

Corn  Crisps. 

One  cup  of  cornmeal  One  teaspoon  of  salt 

Two  cups  of  boiling  water  Speck  of  cayenne 

Cheese 
Boil  together  the  com  meal,  salt,  and  water.     Add  the  grated  cheese  and 
cayenne.     Roll  as  thin  as  cookies.     Cut  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Tracy. 

Doughnuts. 

Three-quarters  cup  of  sugar  One-half  cup  of  milk 

One  egg  Speck  of  salt 

One  tablespoon  of  shortening  Speck  of  ginger 

One  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Speck  of  nutmeg 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the  egg,  sugar,  milk.     Use  flour 
enough  to  make  a  dough.     Cut  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Mrs.  Montieth. 

Drop  Cookies, 

One-half  cup  butter  Two  cups  flour 

Three  and  one-quarter  cups  sugar  Two  teaspoons  baking  powder 

One  egg  One-half  teaspoon  salt 

One  teaspoon  vanilla  INIilk  if  needed 

Drop  on  buttered  tins  with  a  spoon.    Put  a  raisin  on  each  cookie. 

Mrs.  White. 

Brown  Sugar  Cookies. 

(Jne  cup  brown  sugar  (Jne-half  teaspoon   soda 

One-half  cup  butter  Little  nutmeg 

One  egg 

One  and  one-half  tablespoons  sour  milk 

Flour  to  roll  not  too  stiff 
Bake  in  rather  hot  oven.  M.  A.  H. 

43 


Brownies. 


I'wo  eggs 

One-half  cup  butter 
One  cup  suQ;ar 
Speck  of  salt 
Bake  and  cut  in  squares. 


Two  squares  chocolate,  melted 
One-half  cup  walnuts 
One-half  cup  flour 


M.  K.  S. 


Raisin  Cookies. 


One-quarter  cup  water 

1  wo  cups  flour 

I'wo  teaspoons  baking  powder 

l)ne  teaspoon  vanilla 

Speck  salt 


One  cup  sugar  creamed  with 
One-half  cup  Ijutter 
One  egg 

One-quaiter  cup  milk 
One  cup  chopped  raisins 

Drop  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  in  a  buttered  tin  about  two  inches  apart. 
This  makes  twenty- four  cookies.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  M.  O'Donnell. 

Molasses  Cookies. 

One  cup  molasses  One  teaspoon  soda 

One-third  cup  sour  milk  One-half  teaspoon  ginger 

1  wo-thirds  cup  butter  One-half  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Sift  together  dry  ingredients,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  then  other 
ingredients  and  flour  to  make  the  mixture  stiff  enough  to  roll. 

Mrs.  Margaret  O'Driscoll. 


Ginger  Snaps. 


One  tablespoon  ginger 
Flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough 
to  be  rolled  very  thin 


CJne  cup  molasses 

One  teaspooon  soda 
One-half  cup  sugar 
One-half  cup  butter 

Mix  molasses,  sugar,  ginger  and  butter.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  butter 
ii;  melted,  then  stir  in  quickly  three  cups  of  flour  in  which  the  soda  is  sifted. 
Knead  the  dough  until  it  becomes  smooth,  and  set  on  ice  or  something  cold 
over  night  if  possible.  Roll  as  thin  as  pasteboard,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Mrs.  S.  Gately. 

Ginger  Cookies. 


One  cup  molasses 
One-half  cup  sugar 
One  tablespoon  ginger 

Heat  molasses,  pour  over  sugar. 
Cut  and  bake  quickly. 


(3ne  teaspoon  soda 
One-half  cup  softened  butter 
Flour  to  roll  out  very  thin 
Add  ginger,  soda,    butter  and    flour. 
Mrs.  Mearls. 


44 


CANDY. 

"Sweets  to  the   Sweet." 

Home-made  candy  is  cheaper  and  purer  than  that  generally  bought  at  the 
stores.  Much  of  the  candy  bought  is  made  from  impure  sugars  and  flavor- 
ings, and  sometimes  dangerous  coloring  matter  has  been  found  in  cheap 
candy. 

Candy  Makers'  Terms. — Candy  makers  use  soft  ball,  hard  ball,  thread, 
and  the  crack  to  describe  sugar  at  different  stages  in  its  cooking. 

Soft  ball  means  sugar  cooked  till  a  little,  dropped  into  cold  water  and 
rolled  between  the  fingers,  becomes  a  soft  ball. 

Hard  ball  means  sugar  cooked  till  a  little,  dropped  into  cold  water  and 
rolled  between  the  fingers,  becomes  a  hard  ball. 

Thread  mean  sugar  cooked  till  a  drop  let  fall  from  a  spoon  spins  itself 
into  a  fine  thread. 

The  Crack  means  sugar  cooked  till  it  becomes  brittle  if  dropped  into  cold 
water. 

Helps  to  Successful  Candy  Making. — Before  starting  to  make  candy  have 
ready  all  materials  and  utensils  for  cooking.  If  nuts  are  to  be  used,  have 
them  ready  also.  Have  the  pans  buttered.  Have  cold  water  ready  in  which 
to  try  the  candy.  After  pouring  the  cooked  candy  into  the  pan,  do  not  mar 
its  surface  by  putting  the  scrapings  from  the  pan  on  it. 

Victory  Fudges 

Three-quarters  cup  of  milk  'Ihree  cups  of  sugar 

One-quarter  cup  of  butter  Four  tablespoons  cocoa 

One  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  vanilla 

Boil  the  milk,  butter,  sugar  and  cocoa  without  stirring.     When  it  forms  a 

soft  ball  in  cold  water  take  it  from  the  fire     and  beat  it  until    it  becomes 
>. 

creamy,  then  add  the  vanilla.    Pour  on  a  buttered  pan  and  set  away  to  cool. 

Mrs.  C.  Jones. 

Turkish  Delight. 

One  package  of  gelatine  One-half  cup  of  orange  juice 

Two  pounds  of  sugar  Grated  rind  of  one  lemon 

One-quarter  cup  of  lemon  juice  (^ne  cup  of  chopped  nuts 

One-half  cup  of  water 

Place  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan  and  add    the  gelatine    that  has 

l^een  soaked     Cook  for  ten  minutes.     Add  lemon    juice  and    orange  juice. 

Cook  ten  minutes  longer  and  stir  in  orange  rind  and  nuts.     Pour  in  greased 

pans  and  let  stand  over  night.     Cut  in  squares  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  Lynch. 
45 


Chocolate  Caramels. 

Two  cups  molasses  One-half  pound  chocolate 

One  cup  brown  sugar  One  cup  milk 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 
Beat  all  together  and  boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  water. 
I'urn  into  fiat  pan  well  buttered.     When  nearly  cold,  cut  in  small  squares. 

Sea  Foam  Candy. 

Three  cuns  light  brown  su^ar  One  teaspoon  vanilla 

One  cup  water  One-cjuarter  jjound  English  walnuts 

One  tablespoon  vinegar  Whites  of  two  eggs 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  until  it  forms  a  ball  when  dropped  into 
cold  water.  Tlien  j)ut  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  continue  beat- 
ing until  ne;irl\-  cold.  Add  the  vanilla  and  walnuts  and  drop  from  spoon 
on  buttered  ))lates  or  parafiine  paper.  Mrs.  McCall. 

Peanut  Brittle. 

Two  cups  sugar  One  cup  peanuts  (chopped  fine) 

Put  the  peanuts  into  a  slightly  buttered  tin  pan  and  set  it  on  the  back  of 
tJie  range.  Cook  the  sugar  in  an  iron  frying  pan,  stirring  it  constantly  that 
it  may  not  burn.     When  the  sugar  is  a  clear,  yellow  sirup,  pour  it  over  the 

peanuts.     Cut  the  candy  into  squares  while  it  is  still  warm. 

IVIolasses  Candy, 

Two  cups  molasses  Three  tablespoons  butter 

One  cup  brown  sugar  One  tablespoon  vinegar 

Mix  the  molasses,  sugar,  and  butter  together;  put  the  mixture  into  a 
saucepan  and  cook  it  slowly  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  it  until  it 
fomis  a  hard  Ijall  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Add  the  vinegar  and  con- 
tinue the  cooking  until  the  mixture  will  become  brittle.  Pour  it  into  a  but- 
tered pan  and  mark  it  off  into  scjuares  while  it  is  warm. 

Butter  Taffy. 

Two  cups  light  brown  sugar  One-quarter  teaspoon  salt 

One-quarter  cup  molasses  Two  tablespoons  butter 

Two  tablespoons  water 
Two  tal>lesi)oons  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 

One  teaspoon  vanilla 
Boil  the  first  five  ingredients  together  until  the  sirup  forms  a  hard  ball  in 
cold  water.  Add  the  butter  and  continue  the  cooking  until  the  mixture, 
when  tested,  ijecomes  brittle.  Remove  it  from  the  fire,  add  the  vanilla,  and 
pour  the  taff}'  into  a  buttered  pan.  When  it  is  nearly  cool,  mark  it  into 
squares. 

46 


Plain  Fondant. 

Three  cups  sugar  One-half  teaspoon  vanilla 

One-quarter  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar    Three-quarters  cup  water 

Put  the  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  water  into  an  agate  saucepan  and  stir 
the  mixture  thoroughly.  Place  it  on  the  range  and  heat  it  slowly  to  the  boil- 
ing point.  Boil  it  without  stirring  until  the  sirup  threads,  or  until  it  forma 
a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  After  the  sirup  has  been  boiling  a  few  minutes 
sugar  will  adhere  to  sides  of  the  saucepan.  This  should  be  removed  by 
washing  it  off  with  a  piece  of  soft  cloth  dipped  in  cold  water.  When  the 
fondant  is  cooked,  add  the  vanilla,  pour  the  sirup  slowly  on  a  large  platter, 
and  let  it  stand  until  it  is  nearly  cool,  or  until  it  can  be  handled.  Knead  it, 
like  bread  dough,  until  it  is  perfectly  smooth.  Put  it  into  a  covered  jar  and 
let  it  stand  at  least  twenty-four  hours  before  using  it. 

Fondant  is  used  in  many  ways:  plain,  for  the  centers  of  chocolate  creams 
and  bonbons,  mixed  with  cocoanut,  nuts,  candied  cherries,  dates,  figs,  etc., 
and  as  frosting  for  cakes. 

Any  other  flavoring  may  be  substituted  for  vanilla. 

Fudge. 

']  wo  cups  of  sugar  ()ne-half  cup  of  milk 

'Three  tablespoons  of  cocoa  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

One-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
Boil  togetlier  the  sugar,  cocoa  and  milk.     Add  butter  when  boiling.     Stir 
thoroughly  and  add  the  vanilla.     Beat  until  creamy.     Pour  on  buttered  dish 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Mrs.  Mitchell. 

Vinegar  Candy. 

1  wo  cups  sugar  One-half  cup  vinegar 

Two  tablespoons   butter 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  in  a  saucepan.     Stir  the  mixture  over  the 
fire  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  occasionally  afterward.     Boil  it  until  it 
i  •  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.     Pour  it  on  a  buttered  plate  to  cool,  and 
mark  it  into  squares  while  it  is  M^arm. 

Cocoanut   Cream   Candy. 

'!  wo  cups  of  <ugar  One-half  cup  of  cocoanut 

One-half  cup  of  milk  Half  raisins  or  nuts  may  be  used 

()ne  teaspoon  of  i)Utter 
Onc-c|uarter  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract 

Boil  sugar,  milk  and  butter  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
ilic  coco-iniit  and  flavoring.  Beat  until  creamy.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan 
to  cool.  !Mrs.  Donnelly. 

47 


Pinoche. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar  Rutter  the  size  of  walnut 

One-half  cup  of  milk  One  tablespoon  of  vanilla 

One-quarter  pound  of  chopped  nuts 
Cook  without  stirring  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.     Stir  in  nuts 
just  before  taking  off  the  fire.     Beat  well  and  pour  on  buttered  dishes. 

Margaret  Coveney. 

Brown  Sugar  Fudge., 

Two  pounds  of  brown  sugar  Small  piece  of  butter 

One-half  cup  of  milk  Few  drops  oi  vanilla 

Boil  sugar  and  milk,  until  it  threads;  remove  from  stove,  add  butter  and 
vanilla  and  !>eat  until  it  begins  to  grain  Pour  on  buttered  dish  and  mark 
\vhen  cool.  Helen  Costigan. 

Marshmallow  Pinoche. 

Three  cups  oi  brown  sugar  Initter  the  size  of  a  walnut 

Three-quarters  cup  of  milk 

One-half  pound  of  best  marshmallows 

One  cup  of  broken   English  walnut  meat 
Boil  together  the  sugar  and  milk  about  ten  minutes  stirring  all  the  time. 
\dd  the  butter,  walnut  meat  and  marshmallows.     Heat  over  the  stove  until 
ready  to  poui.     Pour  on  buttered  plate  and  harden.  Mae  Barret. 

Gocoanut    Marshmallow   Squares. 

'i'wo  cups  of  stoned  dates  '  -ne  tablesv)oons  of  milk 

One-quarter  cup  of  powdered  sugar 

Ore  cup  of  canned  cocoanut  (squeezed  dry) 

Mix  all  together  and  press  one-half  the  mixture  into  a  square  tin.  Place 
a  layer  of  mrshmallow  between  and  the  remainder  of  mixture  on  top. 
Tress  firmly  tc  ^ether,  cut  in  squares,  and  set  away.        Mildred  Thompson. 

Peanut  Butter  Candy,., 

<  ;ne  cup  of  light  brown  sugar  One-half  cup  of  molasses 

Three-quarters  cup  of  peanut  butter 
Boil  .sugar  and  molasses  together  until  it  hardens  in  water.     Remove  from 
fire  and  stir  in  peanut  butter.     Let  cool  and  then  pull  it. 

Helen  F.  Thompson. 

Karo    Candy. 

One  cup  of  karo  One  teaspoon  of  vinegar 

(Tie  cupj  of  '^ugar  Sniiill  piece  (jf  l)utter 

Boil  till  it  is  hard  in  cold  water.  Mary  Nicholson. 

48 


Molasses  Taffy- 
Four  tablespoons  of  sugar  i  wo  tablespoons  of  water 
Six  tablespoons  of  molasses                   One  teaspoon  of  butter 
Roil  until  l)rittle  in  cold  water.     Pour  on  buttered  dish. 

Mrs.  F.  M.  Salway. 

Cocoa  Fudge. 

One  cup  of  sugar  oi.\  teaspoons  of  cocoa  or  chocolate 

One-fourth  cup  of  milk  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

One  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
Boil  until  it  threads,  take  from  stove  and  add  the  butter  and  vanilla  and 
r.eat  until  thick.     Pour  into  buttered  pans  and  cut  when  cool. 

Mary  Salway. 

Butter  Scotch. 

One-half  cup  of  molas.ses  One-half  cuj)  of  l)utter 

One  cup  of  .sugar  Two  tablespoons  of  boiling  water 

One  tablespoon  of  vinegar  i.)ne  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Boil  the  mixture  until  it  becomes  brittle  in  cold  water.  Add  the  vanilla. 
Pour  in  buttered  pans.  Bonnie  Fedell. 

Peppermint  Creams. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  One  teaspoon  of  peppermint  extract 

One-half  cup  of  water 
One-eighth  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar 

Add  sugar  and  water  together.  Add  the  cream  of  tartar.  Cook  until  soft 
i*all  in  cold  water.  Stir  until  cloudy  and  add  the  extract.  Drop  on  waxed 
]>aper.  Ruth  Nicholson. 

Puffed  Rice  Brittle. 

One  cup  of  sugar  One-half  i)ackage  of  puffed  rice 

( )ne-half  cup  water  One  teaspoon  vinegar 

f)ne-half  teaspoon  salt  Two  tablespoons  molasses 

Butter  size  of  walnut 
Boil  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  for  five  minutes,  then  add  molasses,  butter 
and  salt.     Boil  until  when  dropped  in  cold  water  it  becomes  hard  and  brit- 
tle.    Take  from  fire,  stir  in  puffed  rice  previously  warmed  and  spread  on 
buttered  dish  to  cool.  Mrs.  C.  I.  Adams. 

Pop-Corn  Balls. 

One  cuj^  of  sirup  One  tablespoon  of  vinegar 

Two  or  three  quarts  of  popped  corn 
Boil  siruj)  and  vinegar  until  sirup  hardens  in  cold  water.     Pour  over  pop- 
<.orn  and  roll  into  t)alls.  Mrs.  D.  Thompson. 

49 


PRESERVES  and  PICKLES. 

"Variety  is  the  very  spice  of  life  that  gives  it  all  its  flavor." 

Canned  Pears. 

Cut  a  dozen  Bartlett  pears  in  halves,  leaving  the  stem  on  half.  Pare  and 
remove  the  cores.  Cook  until  soft.  Make  a  syrup  of  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
sugar,  and  a  cup  of  water  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Skim.  Put  pears 
into  sterilized  quart  jars.  Add  the  syrup  to  overflow.  Place  rubber  on  jar. 
Cover  and  tighten  the  jar.     The  lemon  may  be  omitted. 

Can  peaches  in  the  same  way.  Mrs.  Wallace. 

Spiced  Crab  Apples. 

Cook  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  six  pounds  of  sugar,  two  teaspoons  cinna- 
mon, one-half  teaspoon  cloves,  add  six  pounds  of  crab  apples,  cored  and 
chopped  fine,  two  oranges  with  peel  and  chopped  fine,  two  pounds  seeded 
raisins.    Boil  slowly  about  twenty-five  minutes.  M.  M.  D. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

"I  welve  oranges  Four  lemons 

Eight  pounds  of  white  sugar 
Cut  up  fruit  and  soak  for  thirty-six  hours  in  four  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Then  boil  two  hours,  add  sugar  and  boil  until  it  jellies.       Mrs.  MacCalduff. 

Gingered  Pears. 

Eight  pounds  of  pears  cut  in  thin  slices.  Cook  four  pounds  of  sugar,  four 
cups  of  water,  the  juice  of  four  lemons  and  grated  rind.  Two  ounces  ginger 
root  soaked  over  night  in  a  little  water  and  then  chopped  fine  is  then  added. 
Boil  slowly  about  four  hours.  Mrs.  Mary  Cullen. 

Chilli  Sauce. 

Eighteen  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced  Two  small  peppers  (remove  seeds) 
Two  large  onions  or  four  small  ones,  peeled  and  chopped  with  the  peppers 
Boil  all  these  together  one  and  one-half  hours  Then  add  two  tablespoons 
cf  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  two  cups  of  vinegar  to  the  above  and  boil  one-half  hour  longer. 

Miss  Catherine  Loftus. 


50 


Beet    Relish. 

One  quart  of  boiled  beets  chopped  fine,  one  quart  raw  cabbage  chopped, 
<jne  cup  grated  horse  radish.  Cover  with  cold  vinegar  to  which  has  been 
added  one  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  of  salt.  Let  stand  in  jars 
or  bottles.  M.  A.  Degan. 

Carrot  Marmalade. 

"^wo  carrots  Two  lemons 

Two  cups  of  sugar 
Boil  carrots  twenty  minutes.     Scrape  off  the  outer  skin.     Cut  and  seed  the 
lemons.    Put  all  in  the  food  grinder  and  save  the  juice.    Add  a  cup  of  water 
and  two  cups  of  sugar.     Boil  half  an  hour.     Put  in  jelly  tumblers  and  seal 
like  any  jelly.  J.  S.  D. 

Grape  Conserve. 

Twenty  pounds  of  wild  grapes.  Two  pounds  of  currants.  Two  pounds 
cf  raisins.  One  and  one-half  pounds  of  walnuts.  Skin  of  three  oranges 
<'ut  in  strips     One-half  pound  of  citron.    One  pound  of  figs. 

Heat  grapes  slowly  and  remove  seeds  by  pressing  through  fine  sieve.  To 
each  cup  of  pulp  add  one  cup  of  sugar.  Add  all  other  ingredients  and  boil 
twenty  minutes.    This  makes  about  thirty  glasses.  M.  M.  D. 

Grape  Catsup. 

Five  pounds  grapes 
Stew  and  rub  through  strainer.     Add  one  pint  of  vinegar,  three  poimds  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  allspice.     Boil  until  of  the  desired  consistency. 

M.  M.  D. 

Rhubarb  and  Pineapple  Marmalade. 

One  })ound  of  shredded  or  cut  pineapple  One  pint  of  sugar 

One  pint  of  rhubarb  cut  up 
Boil  all  together  until  thick.    Pour  into  sterilized  tumblers.      M.  M.  D. 

Green  Tomato  Mince  Meat. 

Two  quarts  of  small  green  tomatoes  chopped  and  drained.  Cover  with 
cold  water  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Drain,  then  add  one  pound  of 
.-eeded  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  candied  orange  peel  chopped  fine,  two 
])0unds  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  suet  chopped  fine,  half  a  cup  of 
.inegar,  one  tablespoon  of  salt.  Cook  until  thick,  then  add  one  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  ginger.     Put  in  jars  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Raftery. 

51 


Mustard  Pickles. 

• 
Two  heads  of  cauliflower,  cut  into  small  pieces 

Three  quarts  of  cucumbers 

Two  quarts  of  onions,  cut  fine 

One  quart  green  peppers  (cut  out  seeds) 

Cover  with  water  and  add  one  cup  of  salt.     Let  this  stand    over    night. 

Drain  off  water  in  the  morning.     Take  one  cup  of  com  starch  and  three  of 

sugar,  one  cup  of  mustard,  one  ounce  of  tumeric  powder  (may  be  omitted), 

one  gallon  of  vinegar  and  mix  together  when  hot.    Put  in    vegetables    and 

cook  until  tender.    It  is  a  good  plan  to  cook  vegetables  a  little  before  putting 

them  into  the  vinegar.  M.  A.  D. 

Mustard   Pickle. 

One  quart  cucumber  pickles  or  six  large  cucumbers 
One  quart  small  button  onions 
One  quart  green  tomatoes 
One  quart  kirge  cauliflower 

Cut  up  large  cucumbers,  tomatoes  and  cauliflower  with  onions  and  pepper.  • 
Let  stand  over  night  in  a  solution  made  of  one-half  cup  of  salt,  two  quarts 
of  water.  In  the  morning  add  alum  the  size  of  a  nut.    Scald  in  the  same  solu- 
tion, allowing  water  to  boil  one  minute,  then  drain. 

Paste  for  pickles — Six  tablespoons  mustard,  one  tablespoon  tumeric,  one 
and  one-half  scant  cups  of  sugar,  one  scant  cup  of  flour.  Mix  dry  ingre- 
dients thoroughly,  then  add  two  quarts  best  vinegar.  Boil  a  few  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.     Then  pour  paste  over  vegetables.  M.  A.  B. 

Grape  Jelly. 

One  small  basket  of  blue  grapes,  not  too  ripe 
Wash  and  put  in  preserving  kettle.  Crush  well  and  add  four  apples  cut 
line.  Put  ill  the  parings.  Cook  all  together  twenty  minutes.  Let  drain 
''n  jelly  bag  over  night,  using  juice  only  for  jelly.  Measure  and  add  three 
cups  of  heatt'd  .sugar  to  four  of  juice.  Boil  hard  for  five  minutes.  Put  in 
Jelly  glasses  and  place  in  the  sun  until  jelly  is  firm.       Mrs.  Richard  Lynch. 

Mince  Meatr 

Three  pounds  stew  beef  'J\vo  pounds  raisins 

One  pound  .'juet  Two  pounds  currants 

One  and  one-half  peck  apples  One  pound  citron 

Three  lemons  One  pint  brandy 

Three  pounds  sugar  One  tablespoon  cinnamon 

Two  cups  molasses  One  tablespoon  mace 

One  quart  cider  One  tablespoon  cloves 

One  tablespoon  nutmeg 
Cook  meat  and  suet  until  tender.  Save  the  stock  in  which  it  was  cooked. 
Chop  apples,  meat,  suet.  Then  add  suet  and  lemons.  When  chopped  put  all 
ingredients  irito  the  meat  stock,  adding  also  molasses  and  sugar  and  cider. 
Cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  raisins,  currants  and  spices  and  cook  for 
thirty  minutes.     After  it  is  done  add  the  brandy.  Mrs.  F.  W.  Doyle 

52 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

"Weights  and  measure,  just  and  true, 

Oven  of  even  heat, 
Well-buttered  tins  and  quiet  nerves, 

Success  will  be  complete." 

Mock  Whipped  Cream. 

Grate  an  apple,  after  paring  it,  into  a  bowl.  Separate  an  egg,  and  add 
Ihe  white  to  the  apple.  Beat  this  mixture  with  an  egg  beater  until  quite 
stiff,  then  add  sugar  to  taste  and  enough  to  thicken  the  mixture,  either  con- 
fectioners or  granulated.  Beat  until  stiff  as  wished  for.  This  you  will  find 
will  be  plenty  for  a  family  of  six  or  eight,  used  on  layer  cake  or  as  indi- 
vidual dishes.  A.  M.  M. 

Lemon   Syrup    (served  with   waffles). 

One  cup  sugar  One  teaspoon  butter 

One-half  cup  water  One  teasf)oon  lemon  juice 

Boil  sugar  with  water  until  it  thickens  slightly.  Add  butter  and  lemon 
juice.     Serve  as  soon  as  the  butter  is  melted.  !M.  A.  K. 

Hoi   Chocolate   Sauce., 

One  cup  brown  sugar  One-half  tea^ponn  salt 

Two  tablespoons  flour  Three  tablespoons  cocoa 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients.  Pour  in  one  pint  boiling  water.  Let  cook  until 
thick.    When  cooked  add  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.    Mrs.  Julia  Peterson. 

Karo  Frosting. 

Two  cups  karo  syrup  Two  tablespoons  of  water 

A  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 
Let  boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water,  then  add  whites  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten.  D.  M. 

To  Extract  Juice  from  Onions. 

Cut  slice  from  root  end  of  the  onion;  remove  skin,  press  onion  on  a  coarse 
grater,  using  rotary  motion. 

To  Blanch  Almonds. 

Cover  almonds  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes;  drain, 
plunge  into  cold  water  and  rub  off  skins. 

Buttered  Cracker  Crumbs. 

Allow  one-fourth  cup  melted  butter  to  one  cup  crumbs.  Stir  lighty  in  mix- 
ing    so  crumbs  will  be  evenly  coated. 

53 


For  the  Invalid  Tray. 

'"Simple  diet  is  best,  for  many  dishes  bring  many  diseases." 

Importance. — f'ood  for  the  sick  is  a  matter  of  freat  importance,  as  in 
many  cases  a  patient's  recovery  depends  on  the  kind,  quality,  and  the  quan- 
tity of  food  furnished  during  illness. 

The  appetite  of  those  who  are  sick  is  poor.  And  generally  speaking,  a 
sick  patient  has  no  desire  for  food  unless  it  is  selected  to  his  liking,  cooked 
well,  served  attractively,  and  served  in  small  quantities.  So  the  skillful 
housekeeper  must  be  able  to  know  what  kinds  of  food  are  good  for  invalids, 
and  she  must  know  how  to  prepare  and  serve  it  in  such  a  way  that  the  in- 
valid will  desire  to  eat  it. 

Diet  for  the  sick  is  classified  as  liquids,  semi-solids,  and  convalescent 
foods.  Liquid  diet  consists  entirely  of  liquid  food,  such  as  milk,  beef  tea, 
beef  juice,  strained  broths,  strained  gruel  and  cooling  drinks.  These  are 
given  during  severe  illnesses. 

Tea,  coffee,  and  other  stimulants  should  be  given  only  when  the  physician 
consents  ro  their  use  by  the  invalid. 

Semi-solids  arc  given  in  less  severe  illness,  or  when  a  patient  is  beginnings 
to  improve.  This  diet  includes  everything  in  liquid  diet  and  also  easily  di- 
gested foods. 

Lemon  Whey. 

One  cup  hot  milk  One  and  one-half  tablespoons  sugar 

Two  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.     Add  the  lemon  juice.     Cook  it  without 
strring  it  until  the  whey  separates     Strain  it  through  cheeseclotr.     Add  tre 
.-ugar  and  serve  it  rot  or  cold. 

Rice  Water^ 

Two  tablespoons  rice  One-half  stick  cinnamon 

Four  cups  boiling  water  Salt  and  sugar 

Milk 
Pick  over  the  rice  and  wash  it;  add  the  boiling  water  and  the  cinnamon; 
cook  it  until  the  rice  is  thoroughly  soft.     Strain  it,  .season  it  with  salt  and 
sugar  (if  liked),  and  dilute  it  with  hot  milk. 


54 


Barley   Gruel. 

One  tablespoon  })arlev  flour  Two  cups  hot  milk 

Salt 
Scald  the  milk.     Mix  the  barley  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  it 
:nto  the  scalded  milk.     Cook  it  in  a  double  boiler  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Strain  it  and  season  it  with  salt. 

Indian-Meal  Gruel. 

One  tablespoon  Indian  meal  Two  cups  boiling  water 

One-ralf  tablespoon  flour  One-half  teaspoon  salt 

( )ne-quarter  cup  cold  water  Milk  or  cream 

Mix  the  meal,  flour,  and  salt  with  the  cold  water.  Pour  on  boiling  water 
and  cook  it  over  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  it  constantly.  Cook  it 
m  a  double  boiler  one  and  one-half  hours.  Strain  it  and  dilute  it  with  milk 
or  cream. 

Steamed  Rhubarb  Sauce. 

One  quart  rhubarb  (cut  into  one-half  inch  pieces)  Two  cups  sugar 

Cut  off  the  leaves  and  the  root  and  wash  the  stalks  and  cut  them  into  one- 
half  inch  lengths.  Put  the  rhubarb  into  a  double  boiler,  add  the  sugar,  and 
cover  the  boiler  tight.  Cook  the  rhubarb  until  it  is  soft;  do  not  stir  it,  as 
j'ieces  should  be  unbroken. 

Pan-Broiled  Oysters. 

Toast  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  and  keep  them  hot.  Clean  oysters  and 
v.ipe  them  dry.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  without  water,  shaking  the  sauce- 
pan until  the  oysters  are  plump  and  the  edges  begin  to  curl.  Season  them 
with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  serve  them  at  once  on  the  toast. 

Egg  Lemonade. 

One  egg  Tv.o-thirds  cup  cold  water 

Two  tablespoons  sugar  Two  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Beat  the  egg,  add  the  .sugar  and  lemon  juice,  and  beat  again;  add  the 
\>ater.     Mix  well,  strain  and  serve  very  cold. 

Orangeade. 

Juice  of  one  orange  One  and  one-half  pounds  sugar 

One  tablespoon  lemon  juice  One  cup  boiling  water 

Wash  the  orange  and  cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  center,  and  remove  the 
seeds.  Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  orange,  add  the  lemon  juice,  sugar  and 
boiling  water.  Put  into  a  bowl,  cover  and  let  stand  until  it  is  cold.  Strain 
into  a  glass  and  put  the  slices  of  orange  on  top. 

55 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS. 

To  prevent  clothes  from  freezing  to  clothesline— Soak  clothes  in  salt  and 
\.  ater.     Rub  wet  cloth  over  line  just  before  hanging  clothes  out  to  dry. 

To  cook  string  beans  quickly — ^Add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  water  and  you  will 
find  they  cook  much  quicker. 

To  remove  odor  of  cabbage  and  corned  beef  from  kitchen — Sprinkle  a  lit- 
tle coffee  on  the  stove  and  it  will  remove  odor. 

Sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  suet  when  chopping  it,  to  prevent  the  pieces 
Slicking  together. 

Keep  cranberries  in  a  cool  place  in  cold  water;  will  keep  for  weeks. 
To  make  whites  of  eggs  beat  up  quickly,  add  a  pinch  of  salt. 
The  juice  from  a  ripe  tomato  will    remove    stains    from  the    hands  and 
whiten  them. 

Cabbage  chopped  and  seasoned  well  with  celery  salt  is  a  good  substitute 
for  celery  in  a  salad. 

The  following  is  a  table  of  weights  and  measures  that  will  be  found  useful 
One  quart  sifted  flour  One  pound 

One  pint  of  granulated  sugar  One  pound 

Two  cups  of  butter,  packed  One  pound 

One  generous  pint  of  liquid  One  pound 

Two  vups  granulated  sugar  One  pound 

Two  cups  powdered  sugar  One  pound 

One  pint  of  tinely  chopped  meat,  packed  solidly      One  pound 
The  cup  used  is  the  common  kitchen  cup,  holding  one-half  pint. 
You  can  get  a  bottle  or  a  barrel  of  oil  off  any  carpet  or  woolen  stuff  by 
i-j.plying  dr}-  buckwheat  flour  plentifully  and  faithfully. 

To  remove  peach  stains  from  linen,  saturate  the  stain  with  spirits  of  cam- 
phor before  washing  and  the  stain  will  disappear. 

A  tin  cm  o*"  washing  soda  should  be  kept  on  hand  to  clean  pots  and  pans 
and  sweeten  the  sink.  The  dishcloth  should  be  boiled  in  soda  water  fre- 
quently. Ammonia  can  be  used  for  the  same  purpose,  but  it  is  more  ex- 
pensive. 

\  frying  liasket,  which  costs  only  a  trifle,  saves  much  labor  and  material. 
A  jar  for  breadcrumb.*,  which  should  never  be  thrown  away  but  dried  in 
ihe  oven  and  rolled  out  for  dressing  and  thickenings. 

Keep  a  pot  for  fat.  Never  allow  any  fat  liquor  to  be  thrown  away,  it  will 
ierve  as  a  basis  of  good  vegetable  soup  tomorrow.  Save  all  skimmings  from 
.ame,  and  all  drippings  from  the  roast. 

When  bread  or  pastry  is  in  danger  of  burning,  a  basin  of  cold  water  set 
Of  the  upper  grate  protects  the  bread  and  lowers  the  temperature,  and  is 
much  better  than  covering  with  paper  or  leaving  the  door  open. 

Mrs.  D.  Thompson. 

56  ' 


Grass  stains  may  be  removed  from  colored  goods  by  dipping  stain  in  alco- 
hol and  rubbing  spot  vigorously. 

For  a  burn  apply  equal  parts  white  of  egg  and  olive  oil  mixed  together. 
If  applied  at  once  no  blister  will  form. 

Clean  piano  keys  by  rubbing  with  alcohol. 

To  remove  iron  rust,  saturate  spot  with  lemon  juice,  then  cover  with  salt, 
I.et  stand  in  sun  for  several  hours. 

Tumblers  which  have  contained  milk  should  be  rinsed  in  cold  'vater  be- 
fore being  put  into  hot  water. 

Never  put  knives  with  ivory  handles  in  hot  water.  Hot  water  causes 
them  to  discolor  and  crack. 

To  toughen  lamp  chimneys  put  them  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  heat  gradu- 
ally until  water  reaches  boiling  point.  Set  aside;  when  water  is  cold,  re- 
move chimne}'s.     This  prevents  chimneys  from  cracking. 

When  a  water  bottles  begins  to  look  cloudy,  half  fill  the  bottle  with  seeds 
from  grape  fruit,  and  water;  shake  wel  for  a  few  minutes,  take  out  and  wash 
in  warm  suds,  then  rinse  in  clear  warm  water;  this  will  cause  the  glass  to 
glisten  and  look  like  new. 

Place  all  garbage  in  paper  bags  before  putting  in  the  garbage  can.  The 
can  lasts  much  longer  and  is  easier  to  keep  clean. 

A  long  handled  corn  popper  is  very  useful  for  broiling  a  bit  of  steak,  a 
chop,  or  for  making  a  slice  of  toast  in  the  furnace  when  the  kitchen  fire 
isn't  in  cooking  order. 

To  soften  a  paint  brush  that  has  been  allowed  to  harden,  boil  for  half  an 
hour  in  vessel  containing  vinegar  to  cover.  The  brush  will  come  out  like 
new. 

Pack  glass  or  china  in  straw  that  has  been  slightly  moistened;  this  will 
prevent  the  articles  from  slipping  about.  Wrap  each  article  separately, 
placing  the  heaviest  at  the  bottom. 

To  test  eggs,  put  them  in  water.     A  fresh  egg  will  sink,  a  bad  egg  will 

f oat  on  the  surface. 

Cubes  of  sugar  rubbed  over  the  surface  of  an  orange  will  retain  the  or- 
ange flavor  by  absorbing  the  oil.  Sugar  thus  prepared  and  used  in  tea  im- 
parts most  delicious  flavor,  suggesting  orange  pekoe. 

If  the  knives  of  the  food  chopper  become  black  and  dull,  run  a  piece  of 

sandsoap  through  the  machine  as  you  would  if  it  were  food;  it  brightens 
and  sharpens  the  knives. 

V/hen  frying  anything  that  causes  the  hot  fat  to  spatter,  try  sprinkling  a 

little  flour  into  the  hot  fat  l)efore  beginning  to  fry.    This  will  instantly  stop 
the  spattering. 

Mix  stove  polish  with  milk  instead  of  water;  it  gives  a  higher  polish. 

When  washing  vegetables  such  as  lettuce,  spinach,  dandelions,  water  cress, 
etc.,  add  one  tablespoon  of  salt  to  the  water  and  all  small  inescts  which 
can't  otherwise  be  washed  will  quickly  rise  to  the  top.  L.  N.  Crosby. 

57 


Notes   on   Meat., 

Cheap  cut?  of  meat  contain  the  same  amount  of  nourishment  as  expen- 
sive cuts. 

Intense  heat  long  applied  soils  the  texture  of  meat. 

Baste  meat  to  cook  the  outside,  thereby  keeping  in  the  juice. 

A  little  vinegar  added  to  water  makes  meat  more  tender  when  boiling. 

Cold  water  should  be  used  in  making  soups. 

For  roasting  a  hot  oven  should  be  used  and  then  reduce  the  heat  and  let 
cook  more  slowly. 

Give  children  more  milk  and  less  meat. 

Good  beef  should  be  good  red  color,  creamy  fat,  and  flesh  should  be  elas- 
tic to  the  touch. 

Long,  slow  cooking  in  water  makes  tough  meat  tender. 

Preservation  of   Eggs. 

Eggs  may  be  preserved  when  they  are  cheap  and  plentiful  by  means  of 
water  glass  or  silicate  of  sodium.  The  eggs  should  be  perfectly  fresh  when 
packed,  and  a  five  gallon  crock  or  jar  will  hold  iifteen  dozen  eggs.  Nine 
quarts  of  water,  cooled,  one  quart  of  water  glass.  More  eggs  may  be  added 
from  time  to  time. 

Hard  Soap. 

Five  pounds  clarified  and  strained  fat 

One  pound   potash  Two  taljlcspoons  jiowdered  borax 

One  quart  of  water 

One-third  cup  washing  soda,  dissolved  in  one-quarter  cup  boiling  water. 

Line  a  box  with  greased  paper.  Put  the  fat  on  the  back  of  the  range  until 
it  is  melted.  Mix  the  potash  and  when  dissolved  add  the  ammonia,  borax 
and  dissolved  soda  mixture.  Stir  it  occasionally,  then  let  it  stand  until  it  is 
cold.  When  fat  is  melted  and  warm,  pour  it  into  the  potash  slowly,  stirring 
all  the  time  and  continue  to  stir  it,  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  until  the  soap 
is  the  consisteniy  of  thick  cream.  Pour  it  into  the  paper  lined  box.  Let  it 
stand  a  few  hours,  and  then  cut  it  into  pieces  convenient  for  use.  Do  not 
remove  it  from  the  box  for  three  days.  ].  M. 


4 


58 


Kitchen  Time  Table. 


Beans,  8  to  0  hours 

Beef,  sirloin,  well  done,  per  Ih. 

12  to  15  minutes 
Bread,  brick  loaf,  40  to  60 

minutes 
Cake  sponge,  45  to  60  min. 
Custards,  5  to  20  minutes 
Duck,  tame,  40  to  60  minutes 
Fish  6  to  8  lbs.,  1  hour 
Mutton,  rare,  per  lb.,  10  min. 
Mutton  well  done,  per  lb.  15 

minutes 
Potatoes  30  to  45  minutes 
Pork,  well  done,  per  pound,  30  minutes 
Veal,  well  done,  per  pound  20  minutes 
Lamb,  well  done,  per  pound,  15  minutes 

Boilins. 


Time   required  for   baking. 

Onions,  30  to  45  minutes 
Pudding,  rice,  tapioca,  1  hcnir 
Turkey,  10  lbs.,  .i  hours 
Beef,  rare,  per  pound  8  to  10 

minutes 
Biscuit  10  to  20  minutes 
Cake,  plain,  20  to  40  minutes 
Cookies,   10  to  15  minutes 
Chickens,  3  to  4  pounds,  1  to 

1   1-2  hours 
Pie  crust,  30  to  40  minutes 
Pudding,  plum,  2  to  3  hours 


I 


Asparagus  15  to  20  minutes 
Beans,  shell,  1  to  2  hours 
Beets,  young,  45  to  60  min. 
Cabbage,  young  30  to  45  minutes 
Chickens,  45  to  60  minutes 
Corned  beef,  4  to  5  hours 
Eggs,  hard  boiled,  15  to  20  minutes 
Beans,  string,  2  hours 
Brown  bread,  3  hours 
Carrots,  45  to  60  minutes 
Cauliflower,  30  to  45  minutes 
Corn,  green,  5  to  8  minutes 
Eggs,  3  to  5  minutes 
Ham,  5  hours 


Parsnips,  30  to  45  minutes 
Potatoes,  20  to  30  minutes 
Squash,  20  to  30  minutes 
Turnips,  30  to  45  minutes 
Winter  vegetables,  1  to  2  hours 
Bass,  per  pound,  10  minutes 


Lamb,  one  hour 
Oysters,  3  minutes 
Oysters,  3  minutes 
Peas,  15  to  20  minutes 
Salmon,  per  pound,  15  minutes 
Tomatoes,  15  to  20  minutes 
Veal,  2  to  3  hours 

Broiling. 

Chops  8  minutes 


Chickens,  20  minutes 

Steak,  1  inch  thick,  4  to  6  minutes     Fi.«h,  thin,  5  to  8  minutes 

Fish,  thick,  12  to  15  minutes 


Bacon,  20  minutes 
Doughnuts,  3  to  5  minutes 
Fritters,  3  to  5  minutes 


Frying 

Croquets,  1  minute 
Fish  balls,  1  minute 

Mildred  Thompson. 


59 


Memoranda. 


-i 


Q>gffs  can  not  6e  imltatec/,  hut  as  an 
economic  necessitij,  tve  suggest 

NEG 

REG.  U.  S.  PAT.  OFF. 

Eliminates  Eggs  in  Cooking 

THE   NEW  PURE   FOOD 

PREPARATION    FOR 

ALL  COOKING   AND   BAKING 

25c    PACKAGE    ELIMINATES 
USE    OF    18    EGGS 


USED    SUCCESSFULLY   IN    MANY 
HOTELS,  HOSPITALS,  COLLEGES, 
INSTITUTIONS,    ETC. 


^s/^ 


Uf  he  do 


ijoun  grocer.  kJT  ne  noes  not 
carrij  N£Vji  send  us  his  name  and 
address,  utith  25  cents.  J.  urchase 
price  gladlt/  refunded,  if  found  un= 

satisfactory . 

■  <•>  * 

Jimerican 

Economy  Products  Co.  Inc. 

65  "Broad  St.,  "Boston 


Babbitt's  Cleanser 


Babbitts 


?leaHser 


COSTS  5c. 
WHY  PAY  MORE 


Compliments  of 

Boston  Ice  Cream  Co., 

40  King  Street, 

Boston,  Mass. 


Compliments  of 

H  jfrienb. 


The 


Chef  says: 

"  If  you  want  the  rep- 
utation for  making  the 
best  pie  crust,  bread, 
cake,  stuffed  dates,  and 
candy — evei — use 
SAWTAY 


SAWTAY  is  the  snow-white  butter  make  from 
the  rich  cream  of  tropical  nuts.  It  takes  the 
place  of  the  finest  creamery  butter  in  every 
form  of  cooking.     Just  try 

SAWTAY  STUFFED  DATES 

Cream  together  one  cup  of  confectioner's 
sugar  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Sawtay.  Add 
'4  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  beat  until  a  creamy 
consistency  is  obtained.  Wash  dates  and  cut 
the  entire  length,  removing  stones.  Fill  cav- 
ities with  above  mixture.  Garnish  each  date 
with  a  slice  of  candied  cherry  or  a  small  nut. 

SAUTE  PRODUCTS  CORP.,  Woolworfh  Tower,  N.  Y. 


Kindiv  Patronize  Our  Advertisers. 


Spredit  Nut  Butter 

The  Original  Danish  Formula 

H.  G.  CUSHMAN,  136  State  St.,  Boston 


One  of  the  charms  of  a  social  dinner  is 
the  beauty  and  lustre  of  your  Silver  and 


Glass 


HNO0RerbTe 


The  LITTLE  CANDLE" 

takes  care  of  any  and 
all  odors  from  cooking 
and  pleases  your  guest 

Ask  for 

EGYPTIAN  DEODORIZER 
and  AEROPUME 

Delightful  in  the  Home. 

THE  CANDO  COMPANY,  BOSTON 


Aladdin  Dye  Soap 

COLORS  WHILE  YOU  WASH  and 

the  results  are  perfect.  There  is  no  fuss 
or  muss  such  as  mixing  or  boiling.  You 
need  not  even  wear  rubber  gloves,  as 
ALADDIN  does  not  stain  hands,  bowl 
or  basin. 

Dyeing  with  any  of  the  15  beautiful 
fast  colors  is  surprisingly  simple.  In  fact, 
you  really  do  not  knoiv  a  satisfactory 
dye  soap  until  you  have  used  Aladdin. 

For  dark  colors  use  Aladdin  Dye- 
easiest  regular  dye — dissolves  readily  in 
warm  water — will  not  crock  or  streak — 
no  straining  or  boiling  to  secure  beauti- 
ful lasting  black,  brown  or  navy  blue. 


A.  E.  CLEVELAND  CO., 

29    INDIA    STREET,  BOSTON,  MASS. 
Distributors  for  New  England. 


AsR  for 

Improved 
Queen  Fruit  Jars 

(New  Lightning  Style; 

No  wire  across  top  to  break  glass  covers 
95%  of  the  broken  covers  were  caused 
by  the  top  wire  on  all  Lightning  Style 
Jars. 

Improved  Queen  Fruit  Jars 

recommended  by  Government  Canning 
Teachers,  Domestic  Science,  and  Canning 
School.  Do  not  take  old  model  jars  when 
you  can  get  the  new 

Improved  Queen  Fruit  Jars 

at  the  same  price. 

Kold  Prosso  Rubbers 

are  recommended  by  the  highest  U.  S. 
Government  authorities,  do  not  take 
chances  with  any  other. 

Manufactured  by 

Smalley,  Rivlan  &  Onthank, 
21  Blackstone  St.,  Boston 


There  are  innumerable 
ways  to  use  milk  in  cookery 
such  as  in  puddings,  blanc 
mange,  soups,  chowder, 
sauces,  "junket",  etc.  and  in 
all  these  ways  it  is  both 
appetizing  and  nourishing. 
Practical  cooks  exsrcise 
the  same  careful  judgment 

in  the  selection   of  the  milk   and   cream 

w^hich  they  use  as  they  do  in  the  selection 

of  extracts,  flour,  etc.,  etc. 

Our  trade  mark  on  your  milk  bottle 

corresponds    to     the    Sterling    Mark   on 

Silver.— 

IT  STANDS  FOR  THE  BEST. 

D.  WHITING  &  SONS. 


Kindly  Patronize  Our  Advertisers. 


COOK  ■WITH 


Baker's  Extracts 

COMPLY  WITH  ALL  FOOD  LAWS 

The  more  stringent  the  law  the  better 
we  like  it.  We  expect  to  still  be  making 
Baker's  Extracts  when  the  law  has  rid 
the  market  of  cheap  imitations.  Baker's 
Extracts  may  cost  a  little  more,  but  flavor 
better,  go  further  and  are  healthfuL 


BAKER  EXTRACT  COMPANY 


CONDENSED  MII.H 

802  "VirasKington  Street,  Boston 

Ask  for  Free  Cook  Book. 


No.  3—351.  r.  C.N.  P. 


Of  all  nour- 

n  f '^Vv -''''        isting    foods, 
I  \  ''"7  ^  pure  cocoa  is 
XH'^^ifcz.one    of    the 
''/  easiest   for 

children  to  digest.      They 
love  it,  too. 

l0W>fEY3C0C0A 

At  ^ocers,  in  tins,  10c  to  50c  sizes 


Famous 
for  Quality 


CLARK  A'^o 
MAC  KUSICK 
C2Z  BOSTON 


Kindly  Patronize  Our  Advertisers. 


COFFEE 

ERCHANT5 

CXCLUSIVaY 


Jos.  Middleby,  Jr.  Inc. 
Boston,  Mass. 

University  Club 

SHaw^mut 

Federal 

Preserves 


cSts  4Ae^^£afl^ 


Tliat's  tHe 
Reason  IVlix* 


W  ^W^     PEOPLE  WHO  USE  QUINBY'S 

la  iouraine 

-'    ^  SAY iTsThe  Perfect  Coffee 


WASHBURN-CROSBY  CO. 


Gold  Medal 


Flour 


Kindly  Patronize  Our  Advertisers. 


LIBRftRY  OF  CONGRESS 


liiiiiiiiiy"! 

0  005  824  805  8  • 


